



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



1 8 8 O. 



I'UBLicATioN committee- 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D., Geo. H, Horn, M.D., 

 William S. Vaux, Thomas Meehan, 

 John H. Redfield. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 

 S.W. Corner Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



1881. 




^:3<^^ 



Academy of Natural t^ciENCES ok Philadklphia, 



March, 1881. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1880 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows : — 



Pa: 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 

 Becording Secretary. 



PHILADELPHIA 



W. P. KiLDARE, Printer. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With referenrv tn tin sfrci'id iirticlen n>ntrll»{fi(l hi/ enrli. 

 For Verhiil Cuininuniciitiuns sue (Jfucnil Imlex. 



AUeu, Harrisou. Desci iption of a foetal walrus 38 



On the Temporal and Masseter Muscles of Mammals 385 



Barbeck, Wm. On the Development of Lemna minor. (Plate XVIII.) 230 

 Beriih, R. On the Xudibranchiate Gasteropod ^lollusca of the Xorth 

 Pacific Ocean, with special reference to those of Alaska. Part II. 



(Plates I.-VIII.) 40 



Chapman, H. C. On the Structure of the Orang Outang. (Plates 



XI.-XVII. ) r 160 



Genth, F. A., Jr. The So-called Emery Ore from Chelsea, Bethel 



Township, Delaware County, Pa 311 



Hartman, W. D. Description of a Partula supposed to he new, from 



the Island of Moorea , '.3"3tt 



Heilprin, Angelo. On the Stratigraphical Evidence afforded by the 



Tertiary Fossils of the Peninsula of ]Maryland 20 



On some new Lower Eocene Mollusca from Clarke Co., Alabama, 

 with some points as to the Stratigraphical Position of the Beds 



containing them ( Plate 20 1 364 



Kingsley, J. S. Carcinological Notes, Xo. 1 34 



Carcinological Xotes, X^o. 2.— Revision of the Gelasimi. (Plates 



IX. and X.) 135 



Carcinological Xotes, No. 3. — Revision of the Genus Ocypoda 179 



Carcinological Notes, Xo. 4. — Synopsis of the Grapsidse IST 



Leidy, Jos. Rhizopods in the Mosses of the Summit of Roan Moun- 

 tain, Xorth Carolina , 333 



Lewis, Henry Carvill. The Optical Characters of some Micas 244 



On Siderophyllite, a new 3Iineral 254 



The Surface Geology of Philadelphia and Vicinity 258 



The Iron Ores and Lignite of the Montgomery Co. Valley 282 



On a new Fucoidal Plant from the Trias 293 



The Trenton Gravel and its relation to the Antiquity of Man 296 



On Philadelphite ( Sp. Nov. i 313 



Lockington, W. N. On a Pacific Species of Caulolatilus 13 



Description of a new species of Hemitripterus from Alaska 233 



Description of a new species of Catostomus (Catostomiis Cyplio) 



from the Colorado River 237 



]McCook, Rev. H. C. The Shining Slavemaker. — Notes on the Archi- 

 tecture and Habits of the American Slave-making Ant, Polyergus 



lucidus (Plate 19) , 376 



Rand, Theo. D. On Randite 274 



Report on Plants introduced by means of the International Exhibition, 



1876 '. 132 



Vodges, Anth. W. Description of a new Crustacean from flic Upper 



Silurian of Georgia, with remarks upon Calymene Clintoni. ... 176 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OP 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1880. 



January 6, 1880. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenbergeb, in the chair. 

 Forty-two persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication: 



" On the Nndibranchiate Gasteropod Mnllusca of the North 

 Pacific Ocean, with special reference to those of Alaska," by Dr. 

 R. Bergh, of Copenhagen. Part II. 



" The Terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting tlie Cooks or Harvej^ 

 Islands," by Andrew Garrett. 



The deaths of Dr. S. S. White and Joshua T. Jeanes were 

 announced. 



January 13, 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenbkrger, in the chair. 

 Forty-two members present. 



On disarticulating branches in Ampelopsis. — Mr. Tuomas 

 Meehan remarked that some species of Ampelopsis threw off 

 their dead wood by disarticulation, as he pointed out some years 

 ago to be the case with Thuja and Taxodium among coniferous 

 trees. This was especially the case with Ampelopsis quinquefolia, 

 and A. hipinnata. Tiiese, in common witli many other climbing 

 plants, produced some portions of their annual growth of so low 

 2f 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



a vital power, that they were soon killed when severe weather 

 occurred. In the grape vine, for instance, the extreme ends of the 

 strong branches and whole lengths of weaker ones died during 

 the winter. These remained on till cut a,wa,j by the pruner, or 

 until they fell by natural decay. In the AmpeJopsis named they 

 were thrown oil' by an articulation, so that by spring no dead 

 wood of the past season's growth would be found on the plants. 

 Every node included in the dead poi'tion, separated ; so that under 

 the plants the pieces ma}' be gathered like the separate vertebra; 

 in a skeleton. 



The Ampelopsis, when running up a tree or wall, seldom sent 

 out lateral branches till it reached the summit. When these side 

 branches were produced, they appeared, after a few 3^ears,as thick 

 bushy masses, having the look of a hedge annuallj^ pruned. It 

 appears that in these cases the annual growth is disarticulated at 

 just one node above that one made last year— the branch thus 

 gaining but one node a year. A bushy branch of a dozen years 

 old, will thus have but a dozen nodes of living wood. 



The observations were of some interest just now, from the dis- 

 covery of a species of Vitis in the South racific, which produced 

 tubers at the end of the branches, which at the end'of the season 

 were thrown off by a disarticulation, and in this way aided in 

 propagation and distribution. Though the disarticulation in the 

 neighboring genus Amp)elopsis^ as now noted, results only in 

 ridding the plant at once of useless wood, it showed a relation of 

 powers in allied species that must be of service to those engaged 

 in studies of derivation. 



Geo. Yaux was elected a member of the Council to serve for 

 the unexpired term of C. Newlin Pierce. Aubrey H. Smith was 

 elected to serve for the unexpired term of Edw. D. Cope. 



January 20. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty persons present. 



Notice of the Cruel Thread Worm, Filaria immitis, of the 

 Dog. — Prof. Leidy directed attention to a specimen, presented by 

 Mrs. Laura M. Towne, of Beaufort, S. C, consisting of the heart 

 and part of one lung of a dog, containing thread worms. The 

 right ventricle of the heart and the pulmonary artery contained a 

 bunch of the parasites, and several also were contained in the 

 lung. A similar specimen, with the ventricle literally stuffed full 

 of worms, is preserved in the museum of the University of Penn- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



sylvania. The parasite was described, thirty years ago, in the 

 Proceedings of this Acadeni}^, under the names of Filar^ia Canifi 

 cordis and Filaria immitis (see Proc., 18.50,118; 18.5(5,2,5.5), 

 and since has been repeatedly noticed by observers as infesting 

 the dog in Europe, India, China, Japan and this country. 



The specimen presented is accompanied witli a letter from 

 Mrs. Towne, giving an account of the occurrence and symptoms 

 of the parasite as follows : 



" I lost several dogs of different breed, age and birthplace, with 

 the same symptoms — a severe and peculiar cough being the prin- 

 cipal one. A gentleman living on a neighboring island (the Sea 

 Islands of South Carolina) lost over thirty hunting dogs in two 

 or three years with the same symptoms. I watched my two re- 

 maining dogs closelj'. They were a large Newfoundland (mixed); 

 and a small terrier. Both had the peculiar cough, which was 

 excited by any movement, especially after sleeping. It always 

 ended, after a few coughs, in a violent ettbrt to bring something 

 up from the throat. This did not seem nausea or sickness, and 

 as the dogs ncAcr threw up an3'thing, I thought it was due to 

 hairs in the throat. The two dogs had another symptom. 

 When they began to run violently, as at hogs, or a strange dog, 

 they fell down, became stitf and insensible, but in a short time 

 would get up and resume the chase. 



" The little dog died with hemorrhage from the bladder or kid- 

 neys ; but no post-mortem examination was made. 



" The large dog soon began to cough up bloody phlegm, with 

 considerable fresh blood at times. I found in the phlegm one 

 morning two Filariie alive, and at least six inches long. I sent 

 word of. this discovery to the owner of the hunting dogs, and 

 when his next one died he had it opened, and found the heart and 

 liver filled with Filaria?. 



" My large dog grew so ill that I had him shot. His symptoms 

 were drowsiness, sleeping with the upper eyelids raised, and the 

 inner lining showing very red ; holding his head to one side, one 

 ear drooped ; dragging of one hind leg ; turning round and round 

 whenever he attempted to go anywhere; and, finally, spasms, ini 

 which he rolled over and over and drew his head backward. He 

 was fat and had a good appetite to the last. 



" The sister of this dog was given to me. She had a slight cough, 

 but it increased rapidly. After about three months' attempt to 

 cure her, I had her shot before her sutfe rings became severe. Her 

 heart is the one you have. She was fat when she died, and seemed 

 in good health, except for short breath in running, the cough and 

 unusual sleepiness. 



" In the post-mortem of the first dog, I foimd one Filaria lying 

 at full length in the windpipe, and in the large artery others 

 stretched at length and crowded close. Upon cutting into the 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



heart, the worms burst forth in bunches, slowly uncoiling them- 

 selves. They were white, stiff and wire-like, and not in the least 

 stained with blood. They lived in water about twenty-four hours. 

 The large blood-vessels of the lungs were filled densel}^, and even 

 from the small ones long Filarial were with some difficulty with- 

 drawn. No worms were found in the kidne3S." 



January 21. 

 The President. Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



A paper entitled '' Careinological Notes, No. 2. Revision of 

 .the Gelasimi," by J. S. Kingsley, was presented for pul)lication. 



The death of Thomas M. Brewer, a correspondent, Avas an- 

 nounced. 



Chas. W. Pickering, John S. Jenks, Wm. H. Jenks, A. K. 

 Thomas, Ferris W. Price, John Wagner, Chas. P. Tasker, Henry 

 ;F. Fonnad and George W. Biddle were elected members, 



Angelo Heilprin, of New York, Dr. C. A. White, of Washing- 

 :ton, Albert De Selle, of Paris, R. Hoernes, of Vienna, Georges 

 Rolland, of Paris, and Victor Raulin, of Bordeaux, were elected 

 < correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



ON THE PACIFIC SPECIES OF CAULOLATILUS. 

 BY W. N. LOCKINGTON, 



111 the Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1865, pp. 66-68, Dr. Gill 

 enumerates four species of his genus Gaulolatilus, one of them, 

 O. chrysops (Latilus c7i r j/sops, Val.) from the Atlantic, the others 

 from the Pacific Ocean. 



These species are ; G. anomalus (=Dekaya anomalus^ Cooper), 

 G. princeps (=Latilus princeps, Jenyns), and G. affinis, Gill. 

 The first and second of these are stated to differ in the proportion 

 between the length of the posterior dorsal spines and the distance 

 between the dorsal fin and the lateral line ; as well as in the length 

 of the pectoral ; while the third species (characterized from a 

 specimen about three inches long) is described as follows : " Pro- 

 file quadrant, in front almost vertical; Greatest height less than 

 four times (.21) in the length (exclusive of the caudal), that of 

 caudal peduncle about nine times. Head more than f\ of the 

 length, while its height is to its length as 22^ : 31. Diameter of 

 eye equal to almost ^ the height of the head. Preorbital very 

 narrow. Teeth of preoperculum strong and distant ; those of the 

 middle directed obliquely upwards. Sixth dorsal spine equal to 

 ^ of the length. Anus behind the middle of the length. Caudal 

 rather exceeding the height of the head. Pectorals equal to ^ of 

 the length. Yentrals shorter (.18) inserted beneath the base of 

 the pectoral, its spine at the vertical of the upper axil. D., vii, 

 25. A., ii, 22. P., 18. Color reddish brown on head and back, 

 lighter on the sides. A veiy distinct blackish spot above the 

 axilla of the pectoral. Locality, Cape St. Lucas." Dr. Gill 

 states his belief that the large eyes and the narrow preorbital are 

 characters of youth ; and, moreover, hints a doubt as to the spe- 

 cific identity of G. princeps^ and G. anomalus, but thinks it 

 scarcely probable on account of the few species known to be 

 common to Lower California and the Galapagos, the localities 

 from which the types of G. anomalus and G. princeps were re- 

 spectively procured. 



As I have lately obtained tM'o individuals of a species of Gaulo- 

 latilus in the markets of San Francisco, I contribute a tolerably 

 full description, embodying the characters of the two (which 

 e\'idently belong to the same species) and notes upon the 

 peculiarities of each. The difference in some of the proportions 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAPEMY OF [1880. 



between these two individuals has almost convinced me of the 

 identity of G. princepa and G. anomalus ; and I am inclined to 

 think it probable that the type of G. affinis is only a somewhat 

 abnormal specimen of the same species. The chief differences 

 between the smaller of my specimens and the t^'pe of G. affinis 

 are the more quadrantiform outline and greater length of the head 

 and the smaller number of dorsal spines and anal rays in the latter- 



As, however, the form of the head differs so considerably in 

 individuals evidently belonging to the same species, too much 

 stress must not be laid on the former character ; and the A^ariation 

 in the number of dorsal spines (viii-ix) and dorsal and anal fin- 

 rays in specimens of undoubted G. anomalus on record, forbid us 

 to think the latter a positive character. 



It is quite possible that an individual may have acquired the 

 form of head of the adult, while still of small dimensions. The 

 dorsal spine may be expected (judging from the two specimens 

 here described) to increase in their proportional length inversely 

 to the size of the fish. 



If my conjecture be correct (and I only give it as a conjecture), 

 then there is only one Pacific species at present known, ranging at 

 least from the Galapagos to the Bay of Montere}-, near San Fran- 

 cisco ; representing in this ocean the G. cluysops of the Atlantic, 

 and var3'ing somewhat according to age and locality. To thor- 

 oughly settle the question, a thorough examination of several 

 specimens from the Galapagos, and a comparison of them with 

 others from Lower and Upper California, will be necessary. 



Presuming, for the occasion, that the}- are identical, the 

 synonymy will be as follows : 



Caulolatilus princeps (Jenyns), Gill. 



Latilus pi-inceps, Jenyns, Zool. Beagle, 53, pi. 11. 

 Latilus prin,cej)s, Gvinther, Cat. Fish. British Museum, II, p. 253. 

 Dekaya anomala, Cooper, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1865, p. 68. 

 Caulolatilus anomalus, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Cal., 1865, p. 68. 

 Caulolatilus affinis, Gill, loc. cit. 



Caulolatilus anomalus, Streets, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 7, p. 48, 

 1877. 



D. viii-ix, 25-26. A. ii, 24-26. P. 19-20. Y. i. C. ac. 13-14. 

 C. 13. 



General Description. — Profile more or less decurved,the curva- 

 ture increasing with age ; posterior portion of dorsal outline 

 nearly straight ; abdominal outline regularly curved. Greatest 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



depth slightly less than four to rather more than fives times in the 

 total length ; head, 4j-4f in the same. Greatest thickness about 

 2^ in the greatest depth. Eye, 4-5 times ; snout, 3-3^ times in 

 the length of the head. Interorbital width, measured round the 

 curve of the forehead, 2|-2f in the same. Caudal peduncle, 3-4 

 times in the greatest depth. Distance from the spinous dorsal to 

 the lateral line, xg^-l^ times in the height of the last dorsal spine. 

 Nostrils conspicuous, on the horizon of the centre of the pupil, an- 

 terior with a valve posteriorly ; posterior larger, simple, subeircular, 

 distant from the eye about one-third of the diameter of tlie latter. 



Ej^es large, lateral, subeircular, their posterior margin nearer 

 the tip of the operculum than that of the snout. 



Mouth slightly ascending forwards ; tip of the intermaxillary 

 level with the lower margin of the orbit ; posterior extremity of 

 maxillary nearly vertical with the anterior orbital margin. Max- 

 illar\^ narrow throughout, its posterior portion free, but the 

 greater part of its upper edge concealed behind the large preorbital 

 in the closed mouth. Jaws equal in front in the closed mouth. 

 Teeth in jaws in several rows in front, diminishing to a single row 

 farther back on the sides, rather small, slender, acute, recurved at 

 tip, but those in front of the mandible in the outer row inclined 

 forwards. Teeth in front largest, those on the sides diminishing, 

 but the hindermost tooth on each side of each jaw more or less 

 developed as a canine, though still shorter than tlie anterior teeth. 



Xo teeth on vomer or palatines. Upper phaiyngeals set with 

 sharp, irregularly spaced, eardiform teeth; lower pharyngeals with 

 an outer and inner row of similar teeth, with some irregularly placed 

 teeth between the rows. Lower phaiyngeals entirely separate. 



(rill-rakers of front of first branchial arch slender, rather stiff, 

 ab6ut ^ the diameter of the eye, all the others tubercular. 



Hinder border of preoperculum vertical, very slightl}- curved, 

 lower angle rounded, set with teeth which slightly increase in 

 size at the angle, but do not extend along the lower border. 

 Operculum ending behind in a broad flat spine. 



Dorsal commencing above the upper pectoral axil, very long, 

 the tips of its terminal rays reaching the caudal accessories ; the 

 length of its base about half the total length of the fish ; spinous 

 dorsal 3f-4 times in the total length of the fin, and lower than the 

 soft portion. First dorsal spine shortest, the others increasing 

 rapidly to the fifth, more slowly to the eighth or ninth ; the longest 

 6^-8 times in the total length of the fin. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Soft dorsal continuous with the spinous portion, and almost 

 equal in height throughout, the last ray excepted. Last ray 

 much shorter than the others. Height of soft dorsal, in front 

 5|— If times in the total length ; man}^ of the rays simple, some 

 slightly bifurcate at the tip, the two or three last ra^'S twice 

 branched. 



Anal commencing under fifth dorsal ray, its length about | of 

 that of the dorsal, with which it is coterminous. Anal spines very 

 small, closely adpressed to the first ra3s ; rajs similar and about 

 equal in length to those of the dorsal, the last much shorter than 

 the others. Pectoral lanceolate, the seventh ray longest, the rays 

 decreasing rapidly on each side, the lowest scarcely one-fifth as 

 long as the seventh. Length to tip of longest ray ly-H ^^ ^^^^ 

 of the head. Most of the rays twice branched, tip of the longest 

 reaching a little bej'ond the anus. Base of pectoral slightl}' 

 oblique. 



Veutrals inserted under the hinder margin of the pectoral base, 

 their tips not reaching to the anus ; their length about f that of 

 the pectoral ; the last four raj'S twice bifurcate. 



Caudal about one-sixth of the total length, with numerous acces- 

 sory rays, causing a widening of the caudal base ; principal rays 

 three times forked ; hinder border deeply and triangularly emar- 

 ginate, almost forked. 



Lateral line indistinct, tubes simple; about 145 scales in its 

 length, parallel or nearly so with the dorsal outline. 



About forty scales between the ventrals and the lateral line, and 

 thirteen above the latter. Scales of body almost rectangular, their 

 longitudinal exceeding the transverse diameter, the free margin 

 finely ctenoid. All the scales small, those of the abdomen rather 

 smaller than the others, especially front of the paired fins. 



Scales extending upon the cheeks and opercular apparatus, but 

 the snout and forehead to above the centre of the eyes, the upper 

 border of the orbits ; preopercular margin, jaws and gill-membrane 

 scaleless. 



No scales ujion dorsal or anal ; caudal covered with small scales 

 over the greater portion of its surface. Pectorals more or less 

 scaly exteriorly near the base, the scales extending farther between 

 the central than between the lateral rays. 



Color leaden-gray, becoming darker above, but fading to a dirty 

 creamy-white below. Vertical fins slaty-gray. Dorsal surface of 

 head darker than the rest of the body. 




1880.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



IT 



30.1 23^ 



16 

 25 



5.1 

 81 

 12 



101 

 24§ 



7-1 



'3 



321 29^ 



1.25 16 



14| 



The two specimens on which the above description is principally 

 founded were procured in the market of San Francisco, and were 

 l)rought from the vicinity of Monterej- Bay. One is an adult, the 

 other an immature individual, and the two present considerable 

 variation in external form, and in the proportions of some of the 

 parts, as will be evident by the dimensions and further description 

 of each specimen here appended. 



Dimensions of the Two Specimens. No. 1. No. 2. 



INCHES. INCHES. 



Total length, including caudal, . . 17.75 10.05 



Length without caudal, . . . 14.65 8.30 



Greatest depth of body, . . . 4.50 1.96 



Greatest thickness of body, . . . 2.38 .92 



Length of head, 3.74 2.08 



Circumference behind base of pectorals, 10.88 



Longitudinal diameter of eye, . . .80 .52 



Length of snout, 1.25 .63 



Interorbital width, round curve of forehead, 1.75 .76 

 From tip of snout to dorsal, along dorsal 



outline, 4.75 2.46 



Length of base of dorsal fin, . . . 8.96 4.95 



" " " spinous dorsal, . . 2.40 

 From tip of lower jaw to anal, along ab- 

 domen, 8.<^0 4.39 



Length of base of anal, . . . . 5.02 3.32 



Length of pectoral base, ... .87 .45 



Lengtbof pectoral to tip of longest (7'-') ray, 3.36 1.82 



From tip of snout to insertion of ventrals, 4.46 2.42 



Length of ventrals, . . . 2.30 1.20 



Height of first dorsal spine, . . . .25 .25 



" " second " " . . . .56 ,40 



" " third " " . . . .82 .55 



" " fourth " " . . . .93 .68 



" " fifth " " . . , 1.03 .70 



" " sixth " " . . . 1.05 .73 



" " seventh" "... 1.09 .75 



" " eighth " " . . . 1.13 .77 



" " ninth " " . . . 1.10 .70 



Distance from 1st dorsal to lateral line, . 1 .50 .65 



Height of soft dorsal, in front, . . 1.30 .90 



Depth of anal, 1.30 .90 



Width of caudal peduncle, . . . 1,12 .65 



Length of lower jaw, . , , , 1,62 .82 



" " maxillary, along its cui-ve, . 1.50 ,75 



Rays of dorsal, ix-26 ix-25 



"anal, ii-25 ii-25 



541 511 



40 40 



23 22 . 



301 29 



151 14 



If 3 



4 5 



H 



61 



8^ 



7 



7.2 81 

 9 



n 



10^ 

 10^ 



71 



^ 



10 

 9 

 9 



73- 

 11 

 10 



n 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



^ Further Description of No. 1. — Snout veiy declivous, dorsal 

 outline in advance of the dorsal rising rapidl}'^, owing to a great 

 accumulation of adipose tissue about the upper part of the bod}^ ; 

 posterior part of dorsal outline regularly descending almost in a 

 straight line ; abdominal outline i-egularly curved. 



Greatest depth a little less than four times ; head, 4| times in 

 the total length; greatest thickness, 1§ in the greatest depth. 

 Eye, 4-|J ; snout, 3, interorbital width (round curve of forehead), 

 2^ times in the length of the head. Caudal peduncle, four times 

 in the greatest depth. Distance from the spinous dorsal to the 

 lateral line, measured along the curve of the side, one-third longer 

 than the longest spine. 



Denticulations of preoperculum rather blunt ; opercvdar spine 

 blunt. 



Teeth somewhat irregular, canines less distinct than in the 



o 



vouno". 



Anal spines short and weak, but stiff, and distinctlj^ recog- 

 nizable as spines ; the first very short, the second about half as 

 long as the first ray. 



Lateral line less conspicuous than in the 3'oung. 



Upper part of the head and along the line of the back approach- 

 ing a chocolate tint. 



Vertical fins darker nearer the margin. No black spot above 

 pectoral axil. 



The whole fish is exceedingly oily, and the abundant exudation 

 of this oil renders it exceedhigly disagreeable to handle. 



Further Description of No. 2. — Dorsal outline from tip of loAver 

 jaw to vertical from posterior margin of eye, much less convex 

 than in the adult ; rise from thence to the origin of the dorsal 

 very slight ; a gradual descent in an almost straight line from 

 thence to the caudal peduncle. Abdominal outline regularly 

 curved to caudal peduncle. Greatest depth, 5g^ ; length of head. 

 4^ times in the total length ; eye, 4 times ; snout, about 3^ times 

 in the length of the head. Interorbital width, measured round 

 its curve, about one-fifth more than the length of the snout, or 

 2f in the length of the head. Caudal peduncle, 3 times in the 

 greatest depth. 



Distance from the spinous dorsal, at its posterior part, to the 

 lateral line, nearl}' 1^ in the length of the longest spine, and less 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1'.) 



than one-third of the semicireumference of the body. Longest 

 (9th) dorsal spine, 2f in the length of the head. 



Forehead and occiput transversely much less arcuate than in 

 the adult, the large deposit of fat on these parts in the latter being 

 absent in the young. 



Opening of moutli slightly less oblique tlian in the adult, the 

 maxillary extending a little farther back. Teeth much as in the 

 adult, but the hindmost tooth in each jaw, but especially in the 

 upper, assuming more distinctl}' the proportions of a canine, 

 though still smaller than the front teeth. 



Denticulations of operculum proportionate!}' more conspicuous, 

 and more acute than in the adult, opercular spine ending in three 

 denticulations. 



Ninth dorsal spine, 6j times in the length of the fin, about 2i 

 in the greatest depth. Rays of soft dorsal about 2^^ in the great- 

 est depth, the antepenultimate ra}^ slightly produced. Anal spines 

 closel}' attached to the first ray, ver}' small, flexible, and scarcely 

 recognizable as spines. 



A black spot above the upper axil of tlie pectoral ; upper parts 

 without the warm tint of the adult. No large development of 

 adipose tissue. 



Since the above paper was written, a third specimen of Caulola- 

 tilus from the same localit}' has come into the possession of the 

 California Academy of Sciences. This example is about equal in 

 length to the larger of the two described, bnt the development of 

 fat upon the occiput is much less marked, so that its proportions 

 are very nearly those of the type of C. anomalus. 



Although I am perfectly aware that specimens from the Gala- 

 pagos would be required to settle the question of the identity of 

 G. princeps with C. anomalus and C. affinis, I believe that the 

 comparison of these three examples, evidently all of one species, 

 and sharing among them characters relied upon as specific, cer- 

 tainly throws great doubt upon the distinctness of the three de- 

 scribed species. Dr. Bean {in lit.) doubts the specific identity of 

 the two specimens described in this paper, and draws attention to 

 certain differences of proportion, but the only differences of mag- 

 nitude are those caused by the development of fat on the occiput. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



ON THE STRATIGRAPHICAL EVIDENCE AFFOKDED BY THE TERTIAEY 

 FOSSILS OF THE PENINSULA OF MARYLAND. 



BY ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



The Tertiary deposits of Maryland have from time to time 

 attracted the attention of investigators more or less eminent in 

 their special lines of research, the results of whose observations, 

 owing to the then imperfect state of American geological and pale- 

 ontological science, only very gradually tended to unfold the true 

 relations existing between the S3'nchronous formations of the 

 east-Atlantic and west-Atlantic countries. 



Maclure, on the map accompanying his " Observations of the 

 Geology of the United States " (1817), classed all the late super- 

 tlcial deposits of Maryland imder the general term " Alluvial," 

 which term was likewise applied to almost the entire border 

 deposits of the Atlantic and Gulf slopes. In 1824 (J. A. N. S., 

 vol. iv) Sa}^ described about forty species of fossil shells collected 

 by Mr. Finch from the' same state, but excepting some passing 

 reflections on the nature of the deposit whence they were obtained, 

 and on the great resemblance existing between some of the forms 

 and forms still living on the coast, no special geological inferences 

 were drawn from the collection. From a comparative examination 

 of the contained fossils. Van Rensselaer (" Lectures on Geology," 

 1825, p. 261) subsequently referred the deposits in question to 

 the Upper Marine formation, which view was concurred in by 

 Morton in a paper read before the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia in June, 1828. In a previous paper (*' Geological 

 Observations on the Secondary, Tertiar}-, and Alluvial Forma- 

 tions," J. A. N. S., January, 1828), published conjointly by 

 Yanuxem and Morton, no attempt was made to correlate the various 

 divisions of the American and European Tertiary formations. 



Conrad, who, more than any other American geologist, con- 

 tributed to advance our knowledge of the geology and paleon- 

 tology of this latest period, was the first to recognize the existence 

 of at least three distinct post-Secondary^ formations in Maryland, 

 the oldest of which he identified by a series of a few fossils found 

 near Ft. Washington, on the Potomac, as belonging to the Eocene, 

 and the newest, as exposed on the southeast extremity of the 

 peninsula, to the Post-Pliocene (J. A. N. S., vol. vi, and Bulletin 




1880.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



of the National Institution, 1841). The intermediate deposits 

 were classed as the Upper Marine, but subsequently under Lyell's 

 designation of Miocene. Conrad's original observations were in 

 general confirmed by his later researches, and the relations of at 

 least a great portion of the Miocene of Maryland, as well as of 

 almost tlie entire Atlantic slope, were clearly pointed out V)y 

 Lj-ell in 1845 (Proc. of the Geolog. Soc, vol. iv, p. 547). 



It is mainly in relation to this last formation that we wish to 

 draw special attention, there being but little question concerning 

 the original determination of the Eocene and Post-Pliocene 

 (Pliocene ?) deposits. That the great bulk of the deposits known 

 as the Medial Tertiary of Marjland are not sj-nchronous with 

 the South Carolina deposits classed by Tuomey and Holmes as 

 Pliocene, an assumed fact insisted upon by Conrad, and for which 

 there appears to be no evidence, an examination of the following 

 table of mollusca will clearly demonstrate : 



Lameilibranchiata of the Medial Tertiary Formations of Maryland. 



Leda concentvica. 



Anomia epTiippium,* Cardita protracta, 

 Amphidesraa caxinata,* " granulata,* 

 " subovata, Cardium laqueatum, 



Area callipleura, 



(= A. dipleura?), 

 " idonea, 

 " incile,* 

 ' ' subrostrata, 

 " Marylandica, 

 " triquetra, 

 " centenaria,* 

 " improcera,* 

 " stilicidiura, 

 Artemis acetabulum, * 

 " concentrica, 

 (=: A. elegansf], 

 Astarte vicina, 



" cuneiformis, 

 " obruta, 

 " perplana, 

 " exaltata, 

 " varians, 

 " distans, 

 " planulata, 

 " undulata,* 

 Cardita arata,* 



" acutilaquea- 



tum, 

 " craticuloides, 

 " leptopleura, 

 Corbula cuueata,* 

 " idonea, 

 " elevata, 

 " inequalis,* 

 Crassatella Marylandica, 

 " turgidula, 



" melina, 



" undulata,* 



Cytherea Sayana,* 

 " albaria,* 



Lima pajiyria, 



Lepton {?) mactroides, 



Lucina anodonia,'^ 



(=L. Americana), 

 ' ' Foremani, 

 " subobliqua, 

 " subplana, 

 '* cribraria,* 

 " crenulata,* 

 " contraeta,* 

 " divaricata,* 



Mactra incrassata, 

 " ponderosa. 

 ' ' fragosa, 

 " subcuneata, 



" delumbis, 

 (= C. idonea), Modiola Ducatellii, 

 Marylandica, Mya producta, 



Mytilus incurva, 

 Ostrea Virginica,* 

 " percrassa,* 

 Panopaa Americana, 

 " rettexa,* 

 " porrecta, 

 (=P. Goldfussi?) 



" subnasuta, 

 Isocardia fraterna, 

 " Markoei, 

 Leda liciata, 

 " acuta,* 

 " (Yoldia) laevis, 

 " (Nucula) proxima, 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Pecten Madisonius, Penia maxillata, Tellina lenis, 



" Humpbreysii, Petricola centenaria,* Venus tetrica, 



" Jeflfersonius, Plicatula marginata,* " Mortoni, 



" concentricus, Pholadomya abrupla,* " alveata, 



" Clintonius, Pholas ovalis, " inoceriformis, 



" septenarius,* {= P. costata?)* " stamineus, 



Pectunculus parilis,'^' Sazicava rugosa, " tridacnoides,* 



" lentifor- Solen ensis,* " violacea,* 



mis,* Tellina sequistriata, " Rileyi.* 



" subovatus," " biplicata, '^ 



Tbe species in italics are still living on tbe American coasts; tliose fol- 

 lowed by an * are described by Tuomey and Holmes as occurring in the 

 Pliocene formation of South Carolina. 



[Note. — The preceding table has been compiled as accnrately 

 as possible from the various papers pertaining to the paleontology 

 of the State, but owing to their number, and to the numerous 

 l)n1)lications in which they have been spread, it has proved impos- 

 sible to collect them all, and no doubt some few species will be 

 found occuriing in the State which have escaped our notice. 

 These will probably be ver}'^ few in number, and will not materially 

 affect the general conclusion. The following twenty-two species, 

 mainly those described by Say from the collection of Mr. Finch 

 (J. A. N. S., vol. iv), have no stated locality : Area centenaria, 

 A. improcera, A. incile^ Astarte distans^ Grassatella undidatd^ 

 Leda acufa^ L. conceyitrica^ L. proxima, L. Isevis^ Lucina con- 

 tracta, L. divaricala. L. subobliqua^ Panopeea rejlexa, Pecten 

 Jeff'ej'sonius, P. Clintonius, P. concentricus, P. septenarius, Pec- 

 tunculus subovatus, Plicatula marginata, Tellina sequistriata, 

 Venus deformis (tridacnoides), and V. Rileyi.'] 



It will thus be seen, that of about one hundred species of 

 bivalves, only thirty-six (36 per cent.) are common to about an 

 equal number (105) from the South Carolina deposits; and 

 further, that, whereas, of the preceding enumeration of Maryland 

 mollusca only about fifteen per cent, are recent forms, no less 

 than forty per cent, (or according to Tuomey and Holmes, nearly 

 tifty per cent.) of the South Carolina Pliocene (Conrad's Miocene) 

 bivalve mollusca are still living. There remains, therefore, no 

 question regarding the relative ages of the two formations. 



An examination of the fossiliferous strata exposed in sections 

 at various points on the western shore of Chesapeake Bay, in 




1880.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



23 



Anne Arundel and Calvert Counties, on the Patuxent River, near 

 Benedict, and on tlie St. Mar3''s River, St. Mary's Count}', tend 

 to show, moreover, that the series of deposits intermediate between 

 the Eocene of Fort Washington and the Pliocene of the south- 

 east extremit}' of the peninsula belong to two different periods of 

 formation, an older and a newer; those belonging to the latter 

 period being characterized by a fauna, the proportion of living 

 forms in which is far in excess of that in the former. Sections 

 of the newer deposits are exhibited in Calvert County, near Cove 

 I*oint, on the Patuxent River, below Benedict, at about water 

 level, on the same river, further north, in the deposits above the 

 Perna beds, and more especiall}' on the St. Mary's River, St. 

 Mary's County. The older deposits are best shown in the oyster 

 beds, rising a few feet above tide- water, at Fair Haven, Anne 

 Arundel County (which point was considered by Conrad as the 

 northern termination of the peninsular Miocene formation), in 

 similar beds, also only a few feet above water level, at a point 

 about twenty miles further south ('' Colonel Blake's," of Conrad), 

 in the sections exhibited by the Calvert Cliffs, and in the Perna 

 beds on both banks of the Patuxent River. There is, further, 

 strong, although not conclusive evidence, for considering the beds 

 containing Perna maxillata and Oatrea percrassa as the lowest 

 of the series. 



The following tables exhibit as nearh* as possible the distribu- 

 tion of Lamellibranchiata in the deposits of both periods, those 

 of the newer being for conA^enience of comparison divided into 

 the Patuxent and St. Mary's groups : 



OLDER PERIOD. 



1 Area dipleura, 



(= A. calilplenra ?), 



2 " Marylandica, 

 H " subrostrata, 

 4 " triquetra, 



.*> Artemis acetabulum, 

 H Astarte varians, 

 1 " exaltata, 



8 Cardium craticuloides, 



9 " leptopleura, 

 1 Corbula idonea, 



1 1 Corbula elevata, 



12 Crassatella melina, 



13 " turgidula, 



14 Cytherca subnasuta, 



15 Isocardia Markoei, 



16 Leda liciata, 

 n Lima papyria, 



18 Lucina Foremani, 



19 " subplana, 



20 " crenulata, 



21 Mytilus incurva, 




24 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



22 Modiola Ducatelii, 29 Perna maxillata, 



23 Ostrea percrassa, 30 Pholas ovalis, 



24 Panopseaporrecta(Goldfiissi) (= P. costata?) 



25 Pecten Humphreysii, 31 Tellina lenis, 



26 " Madisonius, 32 Veiius alveata, 

 2*7 Pectimculus parilis, 33 " staminea, 

 28 " lentiformis, 34 " 3Iortoni? 



NEWER PERIOD. — J^ PATUXENT GROUP. 



1 Anomia Conradi, 13 



(= A. ephippium ?), 



2 Area idonea, St. M., 14 



3 Artemis acetabulum, St. M., 15 



4 Astarte undulata, St. M. 16 



5 Cardita protracta, 11 



6 Cardium laqueatum, St. M., 



1 Carbula idonea, St. M., E., 18 



8 Crassatella Marylandica, E., 19 



9 Gytherea Saijana, St. M., 20 



10 " Marylandica, 



11 » albaria, 21 



12 Isocardia fraterna, St. M., 22 



Lucina Americana, E., 



(= L. Floridana), 

 Mactra incrassata, 

 Mya producta, 

 Panopsea Americana, 

 " porrecta (Gold- 



fussi), St. M. 

 Pecten Madisonius, St. M., E. 

 Petricola centenaria, 

 Pholas ovalis, 



(= p. costata ?), St. M. 

 Tellina biplicata, E., 

 Vemis Mortoni ? St. M. 



II. ST. MARy's GROUP. 



1 Amphidesma carinata,f 



2 " subovata,f 



3 Area idonea, 



4 " arata,f 



5 " stilicidium,f 



6 Artemis acetabulum, 

 T Astarte undulata, 



8 " planulata,t 



(^= A. perplana '(). 



9 '' vicina.f 



10 Cardita granulata,t 



11 Cardium laqueatum, 



12 Corbula inequalis,f 

 13* " cuneata,! 



14 Corbula idonea, 



15 Gytherea Say ana ^ 



16 " 



{Artemis) concen- 

 trica,f 



{^ A. elegans /). 

 Isocardia fraterna, 

 Lucina cribraria,f 



IT 



18 



19* Mactra ponderosa,f 



20 



21 



22 



23 



24 



25 



" subcuneata,f 

 " fragosa,f 

 " delumbis,f 

 Ostrea Virginica,f 

 Panopjea porrecta, 

 Pecten Madisonius, 



* Corbula cuneata and Mactra ponderosa are also found in the newer 

 deposits of Calvert Covinty, iiear Cove Point. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



26 Pholacloin3'a abrupta,t 30 Venus aloeata, 



27 Pliolas arcuata, 31 *' Mortoni^ 



(= P. costata), 32 " tetrica,t 



28 Saxicava rugosa,-f 33 " mercenaria^f 



29 Solen ensis ?f 34 " inoceriformis.f 



Note. — The italicized names represent species supposed to be 

 identical with living forms ; those (in the Patuxent group) fol- 

 lowed by the letters St. M. and E., species common to St. Mary's 

 and to Easton (Choptank River); and those (in the St. Mary's 

 group) followed by a f , species peculiar to the locality. 



A comparison of the foregoing lists will show at a glance, that 

 of the thirt3^-four bivalves belonging to the older formations, at 

 most only three (or 9 per cent.) are found to be living forms 

 {Pholas ovalis [= P. costata?^^ Venus alveata, and Venus Mortoni), 

 and that only six (18 per cent.) and seven (21 per cent.) are corn- 

 common respectively to the Patuxent and St. Mary's exposures , 

 viz. : 



To Patuxent. To St. Mary's. 



Artemis acetabulum,* Artemis acetabulum, 



Corbula idonea, Corbula idonea, 



Pholas ovalis,* Pholas arcuata (= costata), 



Panopaea porrecta, Panopsea porrecta, 



Pecten Madisonius, Pecten Madisonius, 



Venus Mortoni, Venus Mortoni, 



" alveata.* 



* There appears to be much confusion regarding the species of Artemin 

 found fossil in the Atlantic tertiary deposits, and their relation to the 

 forms now living on the Florida coast. In 1833 ("Fossil Shells of 

 the Tertiary Formations," p. 20) Conrad characterized the species A. 

 acetabulum, which appears to have been until then confounded with the 

 A. concentrica, Con., non Borni^. discus, Reeve, "Conchologia Iconica," 

 vol. vi, sp. 9), inhabiting the southern coast. No mention is there made 

 of its being found also in a recent state, but subsequently, 1838 ("Fossils 

 of the Medial Tertiary Formations," p. 29), we find the following statement : 

 "This fine species is very common in the localities named, and also occurs 

 recent on the Florida coast." In the list of shells inhabiting the Floi-ida 

 coast, prepared by the same author in 1846 (A. J. Science, 2d series, ii, 

 p. 393), only two species of Artemis are catalogued, A. elegans and A. con- 

 centrica, and it therefore appears highly probable that the statement con- 

 sidering A. acetabulum also as a living form was founded on a misconcep- 

 tion, the more especially, as an examination of the recent shells in the 

 3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Deducting two or three species that are also found at Eastoii, 

 we still have left twenty-three (or 68 per cent, of the whole 

 number) that are not found in the later deposits. 



Museum of the Academy fails to reveal anything answering to Conrad's 

 original description. This species appears moreover to be identical with 

 the Venus concentrica described by Tuomey and Holmes in their work on 

 the Pliocene fossils of South Carolina (1857, p. 82), and to which Conrad, 

 apparently without good reason, applied the specific name of intermedia 

 {Dosinia {Artemis] intermedia) in his check list of Miocene fossils (Proc. 

 A. N. S., 1863, p. 575). The A. acetabulum is found fossil in the tertiary 

 deposits of Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina, and 

 must be carefully distinguished from tlie A. concentrica of Born, to Which 

 it bears only a distant resemblance. Another fossil species is probably the 

 A. elegans, Con. (living on the Florida coast) ; one almost perfect speci- 

 men, which agrees in all essential respects with the recent forms, is in the 

 Academy Miocene collections, but, unfortunately, the locality whence it 

 was obtained is not given. In his account of the geology and organic 

 remains of the peninsula of Maryland (1830, J. A. N. S., vol. vi, p. 312), 

 Conrad mentions the Cytherea {Artemis) concentrica, Lam., as occurring in 

 the St. Mary's exposure, but as subsequently ("Fossils of the Medial 

 Tertiary," 1838, p. 30), it is distinctly stated that the same does not occur 

 in the Miocene formation, it is highly probable that the original observa- 

 tion was erroneous. Certainly nothing corresponding either to the species 

 in question or to A. discus is to be found in the Maryland Miocene collec- 

 tion of the Academy. 



The common species inhabiting the southern coast is not the A. concen- 

 trica of Born, with which it has been frequently confounded, and to which 

 it bears only a very slight resemblance, but the A. discus of Reeve {loc. cit. ). 

 A third species, the A. (Dosinia) Floridana Con., is unquestionably very 

 closely allied to the last, from which it differs essentially only in the 

 gi'eater obliquity of the pallial sinus. In other respects it agrees with the 

 figures and minute description of Born's species as given by Agassiz in his 

 '■^ Iconographie des Coquilles Tertiaires^' {JSlouv. Mem. de la Societr 

 Hehetiqtce, 1845, vol. vii). 



I am disposed to consider the various forms of Ve7ius alveata and T^ 

 latilirata as mere varieties of one and the same species, a series of inter- 

 mediate stages seeming to link them together. The V. athleta constituted 

 by Conrad to embrace the V. athleta of Say, V. latilirata of Tuomey and 

 Ilolmes, and the V. paphia of Lamarck, appears likewise to be nothing 

 but a variety of the same form. The V. alveata is included by Stimpson 

 among the living mollusca of the Atlantic coast (Smithsonian Check 

 Lists, I860;, but this fact appears very doubtful in the opinion of Try on 

 ("American Marine Conchology," 1873, p. 160). It must be confessed, 

 however, that there exists a very striking agreement between the fossil 

 shell and specimens of the F. paphia, Linn., from St. Thomas, the main 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



On the other hand, the fossils of the newer deposits as exhibited 

 in the sections on the west bank of the Fatuxent show a verj' 

 decided similarit>' to those of St. Mary's, for out of tlie twenty- 

 two species of bivalves occurring there, no less than eleven ( or 

 just 50 per cent.) are also common to the last mentioned locality. 

 There can, therefore, I believe, be no reasonable doubt that the 

 deposits exposed on the Patuxent River immediately above the 

 Pernn beds constitute a direct continuation of the highly fossil i- 

 ferous strata bordering both sides of the St. Mary's River. These 

 last number among their fossil fauna also about thirty-four species 

 of Lamellibranchs, the same number as is found in what we have 

 designated as the older group, but of these thirty-four, about 

 twenty -two (or, deducting Corhula cuneata and Madra ponderosa, 

 twenty), or 65 per cent, are peculiar to the locality. Moreover, 

 of the entire number, about nine (or 27 per cent.) are still living 

 on the Atlantic coast. The dissimilarity of the two faunae cannot 

 fail to strike the least observant investigator, and Conrad has 

 dwelt at some length upon this curious manifestation (A. J. 

 Science, vol. xxviii, p. 282, and Bull. National Institution, 1841, 

 p. 176). That paleontologist singularly enough (apparently not 

 having made any exact numerical estimates either of the living- 

 forms, or of the forms found in one locality and not in the other) . 

 explains the differences as due solely to variable local conditions.' 



difference being a tendency on the pai't of the latter to lose the full solidity 

 of its ribs some distance before they reach the posterior slope. The V. 

 alveata exhibits a similar tendency, but not quite to the same extent. 



I have been unable to discover any description of the PJiolas ovalis. 

 Con., nor is there any mention made of it either in the Mioqene check 

 list prepared by Conrad in 1862, (Proc. A. N. S.), or in that of Meek, of 

 1864 (Smithsonian Miscell. Collections). I have, therefore, only doubtfully 

 referred it to P. costata. 



' Thus he states (A. J. S. loc. cit.) : "If our coast were now suddenly, 

 elevated, we should find spots where the shells would consist chiefly of an 

 immense number of Modiola demissa mixed with Littorina littoirea and 

 Melampas bidentatus ; these are found on the margm. of the lagoons at 

 high water mark, the Modiola imbedded in a tenacious soil. At a little 

 distance would be found Venus mercenaria, Mya, avenavia^ Solen ensis, 

 Solecurtus Caribeus ; among these would be Ostvea. . ViTginiana, Fusus 

 cinereus, and a few of Pecten concentricus. Such is the group existing on 

 the sandy shore of the Estuaries. Hai'd by, would be a vast deposit of 

 oyster shells with Echinus, and immense masses, of Sevpula. These live 

 on the bottom of the lagoons, which is composed of a mixture of sand and 




28 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



This interpretation might very satisfactorily account for the phe- 

 nomenon as far as generic distribution alone is concerned, and, 

 indeed, it would even hold good in its bearings on a limited number 

 of species, but it would hardly apply to a case such as the present 

 one, where the specific dissimilarity is so vast in such a compara- 

 tively very limited geographical extent. 



Now, if the supposition that the deposits in question were 

 deposited at two different periods be a correct one, and paleon- 

 tological evidence goes far to prove that they were, we should 

 naturally expect to find also some direct stratigraphical evidence 

 afforded by the superposition of the strata themselves.^ The 

 following section was obtained by Conrad at a point on the Chesa- 



mud. Then would be found another group of shells which live only in 

 deep water, the Astarte lunulata, Nucula limatula, N. proxima, Cardita 

 borealis, Pholas costata, in company with great numbers of Mytili. This 

 deposit we should recognize as having been formed in harbors, like those 

 of Newport and Charleston. ..." 



It will be observed, that in the above conception Conrad has confined 

 himself entirely to generic and not specific disti'ibution. 



' It may as well be remarked, that, although in the foregoing examina- 

 tion of the molluscous fauna I have dwelt exclusively upon the Lamelli- 

 hranchiata, the Gasteropoda offer equal, if not greater support to the 

 general conclusion arrived at. On comparing the lists of geographical 

 distribution given by Conrad in the Bulletin of the National Institution 

 (pp. 181-7), it will be seen, that not a single recent form occurs among 

 the eighteen enumerated from the Calvert cliffs at "Hance's;" and 

 further, that only two species, Valuta mutabiUs and V. solitaria, are 

 common to the forty-two found at St. Mary's. Of these last eight (or 19 per 

 cent.) were considered by Conrad to be recent forms : 



Buccinum trivittatum, Natica duplicata, 



" lunatum, Dentalium dentalis, 



" quadratum, Fusus cinereus, 



Natica heros, Scalaria clathrus. 



Nearly all the species found on the west bank of the Patuxent also 

 occur at St. Mary's, and the same can be said of those collected in Calvert 

 county near Cove point the southern extremity. Singularly enough, that 

 although three species of Turritella — T. indenta, T. exaltata, and T. 

 perlaqueata—yf ere cdWected from Calvert cliffs in the upper portion of the 

 county, none of them appear to have been found near Cove Point, where 

 " vast quantities " of a new species, T. plebeia, "the common species of 

 St. Mary's River" .(loc. cit. p. 182), appear suddenly to make their 

 appearance. 




1880.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



29 



peake, near " Beckett's," about twenty-eight miles south of Fair 

 Haven : 



Feet in Thickness. 



5 

 3 



Sand, without shells. 



Sand, with innumerable shells. 



20 



Mingled sand and clay, without fossils, or very rare. 



Same as below, less numerous. 



Sand and clay, with a group of shells like that at Hance's. 



The sliells obtained at Hance's, about four miles further north, 



were the following 



Bivalves. 



Astarte varians, 

 " exaltata, 

 Artemis acetabulum, 

 Area subrostrata, 



" dipleura, 

 Cythcrea subnasuta, 

 Cardium leptopleura, 

 Crassatella melina, 

 Corbula idonea, 

 " elevata. 



Bivalves. 



Isocardia Markoei, 

 Lima papyria, 

 Lucina Foremani, 



" subplanata, 



" crenulata, 

 Pectuneulus lentiformis, 

 Venus latilirata, 



" Mortoni ? 



" staminea. 



Univalves. 



Bonellia lineata, 

 Cancellaria biplicifera, 



" engonata, 



Dentalium tlialloides, 

 Fissurella Marylandica, 

 Yoluta mutabilis, 

 Infundibulum perarmatum, 

 Mavginella perexigua, 

 Pleurotoma Marylandica, 



Univalves. 



Pleurotoma bellacrenata, 

 Scalaria pachypleura, 

 Solarium trilineatum, 

 Sigaretus fragilis, 

 Trochus peralveatus, 

 Turritella indenta, 

 " exaltata, 



" perlaqueata, 



Voluta solitaria. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



It will be at once noticed that in addition to the lowest fossil- 

 iferous stratum, extending to about seven feet above water level, 

 a second highly fossiliferous one manifests itself at a height of 

 about twenty-seven feet, in which were recognized among other 

 shells Artemis acetabulum and Pecten Madisonius. The mineral 

 character of this upper deposit is described by Conrad as being a 

 " quartzose sand, very incoherent," which is exactly what we meet 

 with in the arenaceous deposits on the west bank of the Patuxent 

 River, near Benedict, and which we have identified as equivalents 

 of the St. Mary's deposits. They are described by Conrad as 

 being composed of an " arenaceous, fossiliferous stratum," the 

 sand of which is "quartzose and incoherent" (B. N. I., p. 185). 



We have thus exposed in one section two highly fossiliferous 

 strata, the upper of which shows a very decided analogy to what 

 we have designated as the newer group, and the lower of which 

 assumes a distinct personality for reason of its position, and the 

 paleontologieal characters impressed upon it. Proceeding from 

 this point southeastward, and therefore in the general direction 

 of the dip of the beds, we should naturally- expect to meet a point 

 where our upper stratum, or its equivalent, would descend nearer 

 to the level of the Bay, and in fact we do find just such a point 

 near Cove Point, where " the group most characteristic of these 

 tertiary deposits, imbedded in sand," descends to a height only 

 about fifteen feet above water mark (B. N. I., p. 183). The 

 fossils found here are also nearly all found at St. Mary's, and they 

 are, moreover, " highly ferruginous, as much so as many of the 

 crag fossils of Great Britain, which they greatly resemble, also, 

 in other respects " (Conrad, loc. eit.). On the St. Mary's River, 

 the southeasternmost extension of the formation, the same deposit 

 sinks almost to water level, as might well be expected on follow- 

 ing the general direction of the dip. Here, the Pliocene deposits, 

 well characterized by their fossils, make their appearance. 



On proceeding from our first point almost due northwards, and 

 therefore at a considerable angle to the line of strike, we meet 

 with just the reverse phenomena met with on our southern 

 journey. At Fair Haven, where Conrad obtained the following 

 section, 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



Feet in Thickness. 



the highl}^ fossiliferous stratum found at water mark, at Beckett's, 

 is probably represented by a bed of clay three feet in thickness, 

 commencing at a height of five feet, and which contains " great 

 numbers of black, water-worn, siliceous casts of small shells, 

 chiefly Turritella, the species not yet determined." Below this 

 an entirely new deposit now makes its appearance, a bed of clay 

 of five feet thickness, characterized by Ostrea percrassa and 

 Pecten Humphreysii. This last, therefore, probably represents 

 the most ancient post-Eocene deposit exhibited on the Chesapeake. 

 Ostrea percrassa and Pecten Humphreysii were also found by 

 Conrad at Huntingtown, Calvert County, where in a " depression 

 or small valley " a race-way had been excavated through the 

 fossiliferous ''marls." The lowest member of the section was 

 " quartzose sand, with casts of Perna maxillata.^^ On the east 

 bank of the Patuxent River, moreover, near the mouth of St. 

 Leonard's Creek, Conrad observed innumerable casts of Perna 

 maxillata imbedded in a stratum of fine siliceous sand, and rest- 

 ing on tlie fragmentary rock considered by him as the " founda- 

 tion of the peninsula " (B. N. I., p. 184). 



We should naturally look for some deposit contemporaneous 

 with that occurring on the west bank of the Patuxent, at some 

 point northeast of that locality where a section may present itself. 

 This we find at Easton, on the Choptank, where the mol- 

 luscous fossil fauna corresponds very closely with that observed 

 on the former river. The deposits of the older period, on the 

 other hand, reappear in Cumberland County, New Jersey, in the 

 " Miocene marl " of Shiloh, containing the following assemblage 

 of fossils (Cook, " Geology of New Jersey," 1868, p. 297) : 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Bivalves. 



Ostrea Mauricensis, Astarte Thomasii, 



" percrassa, Venus Ducatellii, 



Plicatula densata, Periploma alta, 



Carditamera aculeata, Corbula elevata, 



" arata, Saxicava myaeformis. 



Craseatella melina, 



Four species of the above are also found in Maryland, three of 

 which, Ostrea percrassa, Crassatella melina, and Corbula elevata, 

 are found, I believe, exclusively in the deposits designated as 

 those of the older period. None are recent forms. 



The small percentage of living forms occurring in the " older 

 deposits," as compared with that of the " newer," leaves little 

 doubt for the inference that the deposits in question were formed 

 at two different periods, the latest of which clearly belongs to the 

 Miocene. A comparative examination of some of the peculiar 

 fossil forms of the older deposits, together with the extremely low 

 percentage of living forms, seems to indicate an age moi-e nearh' 

 Oligocene than Miocene, although perhaps not a single Eocene 

 species is represented. This last fact need not surprise us, howcA^er? 

 as the relationship of the Oligocene to the Miocene appears to be 

 greater in almost all the localities of its representation than to the 

 Eocene. The Eocene, moreover, of Maryland is represented only 

 by a very limited number of fossils, and Conrad, himself, has called 

 attention to the fact, that there appears to exist a greater amount 

 of difference between the Eocene and Miocene formations than 

 obtains between the Secondary and Tertiary, or between the 

 Devonian and Carboniferous systems (B. N. I., p. 177). The fol- 

 lowing comparison may serve to throw some light upon the rela- 

 tive age of the deposits in question : 



Perna maxillata, Lam. 



This species agrees thoroughly with the figure and description 

 of the same given b}' Goldfuss in the " Pectrefacta Germanise " 

 (vol. ii, p. 106), and to which the locality Weinheim (Oligocene) 

 is assigned. The sub-Apennine species, formerly classed under 

 the same name, is considered by Deshaj^es to be distinct, and he 

 has applied to it the specific name of Soldanii (Lamarck, '"'■ Animaux 

 sans Vertebres,"" 2d ed., vol. vii, p. 79). A second species of Perna, 

 the P. Sandbergeri, Desh., also occurs in the Oligocene locality of 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



Weinheim (Sandherger,^^ Conchylien des Maimer Tertiarheckens,'''' 

 p. 367). 



Mytilus incurva, Conr. 



This large species of Mytilus may perhaps be taken as the rep- 

 resentative of M. Haidingeri^ Homes Q'-Fossilen 3IoUusken des 

 Tertidrheckens von Wie7i,^^ Abhand. d. k. k. geolog. Reichaanntalt^ 

 iv, p. 356), found both in the Oligocene (Eggenbnrg) and Miocene 

 divisions of the Vienna basin. Rolle (Sifzungsberichte d. k. Akad. 

 d. Wissenschaften, 1859, p. 64) and Sandberger consider the M. 

 Tlaidingeri as the eqnivalent of M. Faujasi, Brongn., occurring at 

 numerous Olia-ocene localities of the Vienna and Mentz basins. 



Isooordia Markoei, Conr. 



Tliis Isocardia is, it appears to me, erroneously referred by 

 HVrnes {loc. cit., p. 165) to the /. cor. L., from which it is very 

 readily distinguished by its relatively much greater height, and 

 greater development of the umbones. It is a singular fact, that 

 this species of Isocardia was followed in the later period by the 

 T. fraterna,'^ Say, which is barel}' distinguishable from fossil 

 examples of the I. cor from Astigiana and Sicil}'. 



It is worthy of remark, that Rolle (loc. cit., p. 81), as early 

 as 1859, only four years after Bey rich first applied the term Oligo- 

 cene to some of the middle Tertiary deposits of northern Germany, 

 hinted at the possible existence of the same formation on the 

 banks of the Patuxent, his conclusions being drawn from an 

 examination, among other fossils, of specimens of Lucina anodonta, 

 Say, Area idonea^ Conr., and Cardium laqueatum^ Conr. 



* On comparison with si)ecimens from the English Crag this species will 

 be found to differ very broadly from the /, {Cyprina^ rustica of Sowerby, 

 with which it has been confounded, 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



CARCINOLOGICAL NOTES No. I. 



BY J. S. KINGSLEY. 



It is the intention of the writer in this series of notes to give 

 descriptions of new species, rectifications of synonj'my, facts 



relating to geographical distribution, and other matters of im- 

 portance concerning the Decapoda. Unless otherwise stated all 

 specimens are in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences ^ 

 of Philadelphia. 



Genus PSEUDOTHELPHTJSA Saussure. 

 {Potamia Latr. et Boscia Edw. preoc.) 

 Fseudothelphusa latifrons. 



Potamia latifrons Randall, Journal of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, viii. p. 120. 



Carapax smooth, regions and sutures indistinct. Frontal crest 

 very prominent, uninterrupted. Front reflexed, making with 

 the surface of carapax an angle of about 45°, its margin undu- 

 lating and its surface and margin granulate. From the front 

 arise processes which all but join the inferior margin of the orbit. 

 Superior margin of orbit crenulated. Anterolateral teeth more 

 prominent than in any other of the genus and extending back to 

 the posterior third of the carapax. Below, the carapax is ever}- 

 where granulate and especiall}^ so on the sub-branchial regions 

 and near the mouth. Inferior margins of orbits denticulate. 

 Chelipeds nearly equal. Anterior surface of meros granulate, as 

 are the outer portions of carpus and upper portions of the hands. 

 The dactyli with rows of small tubercles above. 



The species is a true Pseudothelphusa, the antennae being as in 

 that genus, but the reflexed front gives it a peculiar appeai'ance 

 and with the larger anterolateral teeth will readily separate it 

 rom all other known forms. The emargination of the external 

 margin of the orbit is no more marked than in P. chilensis (Edw. 

 and Lucas) Smith, the type of which, by the waA', is in the 

 Museum of the Academy. 



Pseudothelpusa sinuatifrons (A. M.-Elw.) Smith. 



The locality of this species was not known to Alphonse Milne- 

 Edwards. There are two males in the Academy's collection from 

 San Domingo (W. M. Gabb}. 




1880. J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



35 



Genus DILOCAECINUS. 



Dilocaremus pardalinus Gerstsecker, Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte xxii, 

 p. 148, 1856. 



Gerstaecker gives doubtfully South America as the habitat of 

 this species. There are specimens with the label " ? Upper 

 Amazon, Dr. Wilson." 



Dilocarciaus spinifrons, nov. 



Carapax regularly arcuate, regions obsolete, sides arcuate, armed 

 with four spines besides the spiniform angle of the orbit ; the 

 margins of the spines finely serrate. Superior margin of the orbit 

 obscurely crenulate, inferior denticulate with a strong spine near 

 the interior angle. Front advanced, with about fourteen spines. 

 A spine at the anterolateral angles of the buccal area. Chelipeds 

 sub-equal, meros with two spines at about the middle of the pos- 

 terior margin and a single one on the anterior margin at about 

 the middle, and one on the distal portion of the upper margin ; 

 the spine on the interior surface of the corpus long, slender, acute. 

 Hand with an acute spine above at the articulation of the dactylus, 

 fingers with the denticulations fine but acute. Ambulatory feet 

 less dilated than is usual in this genus. The spined front readily 

 separates this from all other species. 



Upper Amazon, Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Genus THELPHUSA (including Geothelphusa Stm.) 



Of this genus forty -five species have been described. The 

 localities from which I have examined specimens are marked with 

 an exclamation point (!). 



africana A. M.-Edw. West Africa, 



anchietae Capello. West Africa, 



andersoniana Wood-Mason. Burmah. 

 anfustifrons A. M.-Edw. Australia, 

 aubryi M.-Edw. 



West Coast Africa (!) ; Natal (!). 



aurantia Ilerklots. 



pelii Herklots. 

 atkinsoniana Wood-Mason. 



Northern India, 

 aasteniana Wood-Mason. India, 



bayonioa Capello. West Africa. 



bayonica var. a, Capello. West Africa. 

 berardi Savigny. 



Egypt, Nile (!); Red Sea. 

 ehilensis (Heller) A. M.-Edw. Chili, 



corrugata Heller, 

 crassa A. M.-Edw. 

 oristata A. M.-Edw. 

 dehaani White. 



berardi DeHaan. 



japonica Herklots. 

 denticulata M.-Edw. 

 depressa Krauss. 

 difformis M.-Edw. 

 edwardsii Wood-Mason 

 flaviatilis (Bosc.) Latr. Mediterranean 



Region, Greece (!), Gaarda Sea (!), 



(Museum Peabody Academy). 

 grapBoides White. Manilla. 



? siibqnadrata Gerst. 

 gondoti M.-Edw. Madagascar, 



Madras, Java. 



Australia. 



East Indies(!). 



Japan. 



China, 



Port Natal. 



Red Sea. 



Burmah. 




36 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



gaerini M.-Edw. India. 



hispida Wood-Mason. Burmah. 



hydrodromus Gerst. 

 indica Latr. 



cam'cularis Westwood. 



? aitranlia Gerstaecker. 



? rotunda Freycinet. 

 infiata M.-Edw. 

 jagori von Martens. 

 Isevis Wood-Mason. 

 larnaudi A. M -Edw. 

 leschenaulti Edw. 



India (!), Mauritius, Tahita. 

 lugubris Wood-Mason. India, 



margaritaria A. M.-Edw. West Africa. 

 nilotica M. Edw. Nile. 



India. 



Pt. Natal. 



Philippines. 



India. 



Siam, 



obesa A. M.-Edw. Zanzibar, 



obtusipes (Stm.) A. M.-Edw. 



Japan, Philippine*, 

 perlata Edw. South Africa, Pt. Natal (!), 

 philippena von Martens. Philippines. 

 picta von Martens. Philippines* 



planata A. M.-Edw. Bombay. 



= ? guerini M. Edw. 

 siamensis A. M.-Edw. Siam. 



sinuatifrons M.-Edw. Unknown, 



stoliczkana Wood-Mason. Penang. 



subquadrata Gerst. 



= ? yrapsoides. 

 transversa von Martens. Australia, 



tumida Wood-Mason. Burmah. 



To this list I would add three more : 



Thelphusa emarginata nov. 



Carapax glabrous, longitudinally strongly arched. Post-frontal 

 crest continuous, nearly straight, obscurely orenulate, epibranchial 

 tooth obsolete, a tootli between the extremity of the post-frontal 

 crest and the angle of the orbit. Protogastric region very short, 

 front about one-fourth the width of carapax, slightly sinuate. 

 External angle of orbit slightly emargiuate. Anterolateral 

 margin cristate ; crest, however, soon becoming obsolete. Chelipeds 

 sub-equal, meros with the margins tuberculate and with a strong 

 spine on the distal portion. Upper and outer surface of carpus 

 with indistinct squamje, inner portion two-spined, the proximal 

 spine exhibiting a tendency to become bifid. Hands with the 

 upper margin obsoletely tuberculate, fingers roughened, not 

 gaping. Ambulatory feet slender, compressed. 



Is very near T. depressa Krauss, but ditfers from that species in 

 the narrower and straighter front, the tooth just behind the angle 

 of the orbit, and in the non-gaping fingers of the chelipeds. 



Length 34 mm., breadth 56 mm. 



West Africa, Du Chaillu ; Fori Natal, Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



The name is proposed on account of the emargination of the 

 orbit. 



Thelphusa enodis nov. 



Carapax smooth ; post frontal crest wanting. Epibranchial 

 tooth very small. Front narrow, strongly curved downward, its 

 margin concave, Chelipeds unequal, hands with the inferior 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3T 



margin regularly arcuate. Is very closely allied to T. Isevis, but 



differs in the flatter carapax, the concave front, and the regularly 



arcuate lo^j^er margin of the hands. In all other respects Mr. 



Wood-Mason's description and figures (Journal Asiatic Society of 



Bengal, vol. xl, p. 201, PI. xiv, fig. 1-6) would well appl}' to it. 



Ceylon. 

 Thelphusa rugosa nov, 



Carapax depressed, cervical suture and post frontal crest well 



marked, the crest interrupted. Front nearly straight ; proto- 



gastric region nearl}^ smooth ; epibranchial tooth small, directed 



inward, lateral portions of carapax with transverse ruga? as in 



mau}^ Grapsi, the margin of the anterolateral portion obscurely 



crenulate. Chelipeds subequal ; the outer surface of meros and 



carpus with squamose rugae, the rugae on the hands indistinct. 



Carpal joints of the first three pairs of ambulator}^ feet with the 



sides cristate ; dactjdi pointed. 



Ceylon. 

 Length 26 mm., breadth 32 mm. 



This species is nearest T. denticulata, but will be readily 

 identified from that species by the more crenulated margin 

 between the orbit and the epibranchial tooth, and by the rugae on 

 the lateral portions of the carapax. 



Acanthocyclus gayi Edwards and Lucas. 



The type of this species is in the museum of the Academ3^ 




38 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



DESCRIPTION OF A F(ETAL WALRUS. 

 BY HARRISON ALLEN, M.D. 



The Academy is the iiossessor of a foetal walrus, which was 

 presented by Dr. I. I. Hays, and brought by him from the Arctic 

 region of eastern North America. I have thought that a figure 

 with measurements of this rare, if not unique, specimen would be 

 of value. 



The specimen is straight, or nearly so, and it is by this simple 

 test distinguished from other embrj^os of Carnivora. There is 



neither flexure of the head upon the trunk, 

 or the trunk upon itself. The limbs are 

 folded close to the trunk, this feature being 

 most pronounced in the inferior pair, which 

 are inclined upward upon the ventral surface 

 of the body, and carry between them the 

 rudimentar}' tail. The median margin of the 

 first toe of the anterior extremity bears a 

 small, rounded membranous lobe, or lappet. 

 The muzzle exhibits the future position of 

 the vibrissas by six rows of minute papillae. 

 The muzzle projects slightly beyond the line 

 of the mouth. The position of the future 

 nostrils is seen by two slightly convergent 

 slits. 



The vent is a semicircular slit-like opening 

 upon the lateral and posterior surfaces of a 

 rounded nipple-shaped organ, which is prob- 

 ably the future penis or clitoris. 



The eye is closed, rather prominent, and 

 presents a palpel^ral fissure, which is directed obliquely upward 

 and forward. 



The auricle is represented by a membranous fold laid close to 

 the head. The slit-like opening defining its position lies 3^'" 

 behind the e^-e, and extends slightly downwards and forwards. 

 The auricle extends in advance of this slit to the distance of 1'", 




1880. J NATURAL SOIKNCES OF PHILAPEI.PHIA. 39 



where it ends in a minute elevation. A pro])c can be readily 

 inserted in the slit, and can be passed forward. 



The color of the specimen is a dull wliite or waxy. 



No trace of hair is anywhere visible. 



Lengtli of specimen. 1" 9'". 



Length of head, 9". 



Width of body at widest part, I". 



Length of anterior margin of anterior extremity, 4^"'. 



Length of posterior margin of anterior extremity, 2'". 



Length of anterior margin of posterior extremity, 4"'. 



Length of posterior margin of posterior extremity, A'" 



Distance between vent and navel, 1^'". 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



ON THE NUDIBRANCHIATE GASTEROPOD MOLLUSCA OF THE NORTH 

 PACIFIC OCEAN, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THOSE OF ALASKA. 



BY DR. R. BERGH, COPENHAGEN. 



PART II. 



DIAULULA, Bgh. 



Diauhila, Bgh., Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Philipp.II, ii), Ileftxiii, 1878, 

 p. 567 ; Heft xiv, 1878, p. xxxv. Gattungen nordischer Dorideu, Arch. 

 f. Naturg., xxxv, 1, 1879, p. 343. 



Forma corporis subciepressa. Dorsum minutissime villosum, holo- 

 sericeum, molle. Tentacula digitiformia. Apertura branchialis ro- 

 tundata, crenulata ; folia branchialia tripinnata. Podarium antice 

 bilabiatum, labio superiore medio fisso. 



Aimatura labialis nulla. Lingua rhachide nuda, pleuris multiden- 

 tatis, dentibus hamatis. Prostata magua ; penis inermis. 



In their general form the Diaidulx^ somewhat resemble the Disco- 

 dorides and the TJwrdisee,'^ although their habitus still is peculiar. 

 The back is villous, as in these genera and especially as in the Thor- 

 disse^ but finer and more velvet-like. The tentacles are finger-shaped, 

 smaller than in the Discodorides, larger than in the Thordisse. The 

 branchial-f-lit is rounded, crenulated ; the branchial leaves tripinnate. 

 The anterior margin of the foot bilobed, the upper lip broader, with a 

 median fissure. As in the Thordisse^ there is no armature of the 

 lip-disk. The radula nearly agrees with that of the Diacodorides; 

 the rhachis is naked ; on the pleurae there is a rather broad series of 

 plates of the usual hook-shape. The stomach is enclosed in the liver 

 (not free, as in the Discodorides and in the Thordisse). As in the 

 Discodorides, there is a large prostate and an unarmed penis. 



Only the following species appears to be hitherto known, from the 

 northern Pacific. 



1. D. Sandiegensis (Cooper). 



^ Diaulus, medicus, of. Martialis, I, 48, p. 40. 



* Cf. my Malacolog. Untersuch. (Semper, Philipj^ II, ii), Heft xii, 1877, 

 p. 518, iDiscodoris) ; p. 540 {Thordisa). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



1. D. Sandiegensis, Cooper. Plate V, fig. 3-9. 



Doris {Aclinocyclus?) Sandiegensis, Cooper, Proc. of the California 

 Acad, of Nat. Sciences, ii (1862), 1803, p. 204;' iii (18G3); 1868, p. 58. 



Color corporis e brunneo lutescens, annulis nigris maculatus ; vel 

 brunneus. 



Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum orient. (San Diego Bay; Santa Bar- 

 bara ; Sitka Harbor; Puget Sound). 



According to Cooper, numerous specimens of this species were 

 found from November to May among grass on mud flats in San Diego 

 Bay, at or near low water mark ; according to Cooper, it is a very 

 " active " species ; Cooper later obtained two specimens at Santa Bar- 

 bara Island, on rocks at low water. During the expedition to Alaska 

 a specimen was taken by Dall in Sitka Hai'bor, on alg«, in August, 

 1865, at the depth of six fathoms (another in August, 1873, in Puget 

 Sound, by Dr. Kennerly, on algae, at low water). 



Through the kindness of Dall, I have seen the original (rather 

 rough) drawings of this species by Cooper; a colored one represents 

 the back bright chocolate-brown, with six black rings, of which there 

 are two smaller ones between the rhinophoria ; the rhinophoria, the 

 gill and the foot seem bright-yellowish ; one figure shows five, another 

 six branchial leaves. 



The length of the first specimen, sent to me preserved in spirits, 

 was about 22.0 mm., the height reaching 9.0 mm., and the breadth 

 13.0 mm.; the breadth of the foot reached 10.0 mm., the height of 

 the rhinophoria 2.0 mm., the branchial leaves 3.3 mm. The color 

 was uniformly brownish-gray ; nearly symmetrically on each side of 

 the true back was an annular black spot. 



The form of the rather soft body elongate-oval, not much depressed. 

 The head quite concealed between the mantle and the foot; the 

 outer mouth had the form of a vertical slit ; at each side a short 

 finger-shaped tentacle. The margin of the rather large rhinophor- 

 holes rather prominent, crenulate ; the rhinophoria strong, the club 



' " Pale brownish-yellow, with large, annular, brown spots, irregularly 

 scattered, varying from twelve to twenty, or entirely brown. Surface 

 slightly rough ; sometimes a little tuberculated. Dorsal tentacles conical, 

 retractile ; branchiae large, rising in five jiarts, which become tripinnately 

 divided, expanding so as to cover the posterior third of the body like an 

 umbrella. Mouth proboscidiform, with two short lateral tentacles. Length, 

 3^ inches; breadth, 2| inches; height, ^ inch. — Coopeu, 1. c. 

 4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



with about thirty leaves (on each side). The back all over minutely 

 and densely villous (fig. 3). The margin of the rather wide (5.0 mm.), 

 roundish branchial aperture like the margin of the rhinophor-holes, 

 prominent, finely crenulate ; the branchial leaves (retracted) six in 

 number, very strong, tri- or quadripinnate. The anus strong, about 1 5 

 mm. high, cylindrical, closing the branchial ring posteriorly ; the renal 

 pore as usual. The edge of the mantle rather thick, projecting about 

 2.0 mm. from the body ; the sides low. The genital opening as 

 usual, with two distinct apertures at the bottom. The foot strong, 

 broad, somewhat narrower towards both ends ; in the anterior margin 

 a strong furrow, towards the median line deeper and forming two lips ; 

 the superior broader and divided in the median line. 



The cerebro-visceral ganglia kidney-shaped, the visceral larger than 

 the cerebral ; the pedal of roundish contour, scarcely larger than the 

 visceral. The buccal ganglia of oval form, connected by a short 

 commissure ; the gastro-oesophageal roundish, short-stalked, in size 

 about one-fifth of the former, with one very large and one large cell. 



The eyes short-stalked, with black pigment and yellowish lens. The 

 otocysts scarcely smaller than the eyes, overcrowded with otokonia of 

 the usual kind. The leaves of the rhinophoria strengthened with long, 

 perpendicular spicula, calcified at the surface. The tentacula with a 

 mass of shorter, but otherwise similar spicules, lying irregularly. 

 The villi of the back closely set with perpendicular spicula (lig. 3). 

 The anal papilla with long, perpendicular spicules ; the stalk of the 

 branchial leaves with many shorter spicula, irregularly situated ; in the 

 leaves themselves were no spicules. In the interstitial connective 

 tissue large spicules were seen rather sparsely. 



The oral tube was about 1.5 mm. long, wide, with strong longitudi- 

 nal folds. The bulbus pharyngeus only about 4.0 mm. long, by a 

 htvight of 2.0 mm., and a breadth of 4.0 mm. ; the rasp-sheath very 

 prominent on the hinder part of the under side of the bulbus ; the 

 inner mouth with a yellowish, not thin, cuticula. The tongue with 

 nine rows of teeth, in the rasp-sheath also eleven rows of developed 

 and two of not quite developed teeth, the total number thus being 

 twenty-two. In the posterior rows of the tongue the number of plates 

 was twenty-eight or twenty-nine, on each side, and seemed in the suc- 

 ceeding rows not to surpass thirty. The color of the teeth horn- 

 yellowish ; the height of the outermost 0.06 to 0.08 mm., the height 

 rising to about 0.18 mm. The form of the teeth as usual; the wing 

 rather narrow ; the innermost (fig. 5aa, h) not very different from the 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 43 



Others (fig. .5, 6), the body of the outermost three or four (fig. iaa, T), 

 as usual, of reduced size. 



The glanduliE salivales (5.0 or G.O mm.) long, in the anterior part 

 about one-third larger than in the rest, measuring 1.0 mm. in diameter, 

 yellowish ; in the rest of the length much narrower, whitish. 



The oesophagus is about 9.0 mm. long, rather wide. The stomach 

 is included in the liver, not spacious. The intestine appears on the 

 surface of the liver in the usual manner, passing forwards, forming a 

 short flexure, and running straight backwards to the anal tube, which 

 has in its interior many fine longitudinal folds ; the total length of the 

 intestine about 20.0 mm., with fine longitudinal folds through its whole 

 length. The cavity was empty. The liver yellowish, about 17.0 mm. 

 long, by a breadth of 8.0 mm., and a height of about 6.0 or 7.0 mm. ; 

 the anterior end truncate, the posterior end rounded ; on the right side 

 of the forepart a flattened impression for the anterior genital mass. 

 The vesica fellea, as usual, behind and at the left side of the pylorus, 

 elongate-pyriform, grayish, taken together with its duct about 2.5 mm. 

 in length. 



The heart as usual. The two gland, sanguines as usual, whitish ; 

 the foremost more triangular, about 3.5 mm. long; the posterior 

 broader, about 2.0 mm. long. 



The gland, hermaphrodisiaca with a rather thick yellow layer 

 clothing the greater part of the surface of the liver (except the pos- 

 terior end) ; in the lobules of the organ were rather large o'jgene cells 

 and masses of zoJsperms The anterior genital mass large, com- 

 pressed, about 10.0 mm. long, by a height of 6.3 mm., and a breadth 

 of 3.0 mm. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct strong, grayish, 

 when unrolled about 25*0 mm. long, somewhat coiled on the anterior 

 end of the left side of the mass and on its inferior flattened edge be- 

 hind the large prostate ; it reaches a diameter of 1.2 mm. The male 

 branch of the ampulla (fig. 8a) thin, white, passing into the narrow 

 inferior end of the prostate, thus forms the fore-end of the whole 

 genital mass. The prostate (fig. 86) is of dirty yellow color, flattened 

 and irregularly pyriform, the length about 6.3 mm., by a breadth of 

 as much as 3.0 mm. ; the spermatoduct (fig. 8c) issuing from the 

 upper part of the posterior side of the gland, in its first thicker part 

 nearly as long as the prostate ; in the rest of its length thinner, mak- - 

 ing several coils and passing (fig. 9a) into the male organ. The re- 

 tracted penis (fig. Sd) strong, about 2.5 mm. long, the praiputium with 

 fine longitudinal folds (fig. 9), from the aperture upwards and nearly 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



filled by the glans, which had nearly the form of a human penis, with 

 a well developed head with round aperture ; this head seemed covered 

 with very small, low and rounded, soft papillae. The spermatotheca 

 were whitish, spherical, of the diameter of about 2.3 mm., filled with 

 epithelium, fatty matter and altered semen ; the chief duct a little 

 longer than the spermatotheca, gradually passing into the simple 

 vagina, that was about half as much in length (and was filled with 

 sperma). The spermatocysta of violet-gray color, somewhat flattened, 

 of oval outline, of the length of about 2.3 mm., filled with sperma. 

 The posterior half, or a little less, of the large mucous and albuminous 

 gland, chalk-white ; the anterior, more than half, of grayish or (on 

 the left side) yellowish color ; the structure as usual. 



A variety of the species (according to Dall, it also belongs to this 

 species) was, moreover, obtained by Dr. Kennerly, in August, 1873, 

 on ulgas, at low water, in Puget Sound, Washington Territory 

 (fig. 6-9). 



The single individual was rather large ; the length 40.0 mm., by a 

 breadth of 28.0 mm., and a height of 13.0 mm. ; the breadth of the 

 foot 15.0 mm., of the margin of the mantle 11.0 mm.; the height of 

 the rhinophoria 5.0 mm., of the branchial leaves nearly 5.0 mm. The 

 color of the upper side obscure olive-gray, with rather large (diameter 

 about 4.0 mm.) black and blackish spots ; the under side yellowish. 

 The general form and the head, with the tentacles, as above described. 

 The openings of the rhinophor-holes as above, the club with about 

 twenty-five leaves. The branchial opening as above (diameter, 3.5 

 mm.) ; the retracted branchial leaves six in number ; the anal tube 

 nearly 3.0 mm. high. The back villous, as in the typical individual. 

 The foot as above. 



The peritoneum colorless, without larger spicula ; but in the region 

 of the ventricle of the heart the pericardium is brownish. 



The central nervous system as above ; the proximal olfactory 

 ganglia bulbiform, a little larger than the buccal ; the distal ones 

 smaller than the proximal, at the root of the club of the rhinophoria. 

 The buccal ganglia of oval form ; the commissure between them 

 being about one-third of the largest diameter of the ganglia. The eyes, 

 the octocysts, the leaves of the rhinophoria and the villi of the back as 

 above. 



The oral tube large, of a length and diameter of 4 mm. The 

 bulbus pharyngeus 4.0 mm. long, by a height of 4 and a breadth of 

 3.5 mm. ; the sheath of the radula less prominent than in the former 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



specimen ; the cuticula of the lip disk as above. The tongue with 

 ten rows of plates, further back eleven developed and two younger 

 rows, the total number thus twenty-three. In the posterior rows of 

 the tongue there were as many as thirty-four dental plates on each 

 side of the rhachis ; they resembled those above described (fig. 6, 7). 



The salivary glands yellowish, ribbon-shaped. The stomach as 

 above. The anteriorly proceeding part of the intestine 7.0 mm. long, 

 by a diameter of about 2.0 mm. ; the receding part about 20.0 mm. 

 long, by a diameter of 1.5 mm. In the stomach and the rectum were 

 pieces of a Keratospongia and different Diatomacea. The liver 23.0 

 mm. long, by a breadth and a height of 11.0 mm. ; the anterior end 

 truncate, with a median deep and narrow slit for the oesophagus and 

 for the intestine ; the right anterior half of the liver rather excavated, 

 especially beneath ; the substance of the liver yellow. 



The foremost glandula sanguinea about 4.5 mm. long, by a breadth 

 of 2.5 ; the posterior 4.0 mm. long, by a breadth of 2.5 mm. ; both very 

 flattened (about 0.8 mm. thick), grayish-yellow. The kidney with its 

 whitish network, contrasting prettily with the yolk-yellow hermaphro- 

 ditic gland ; the urinary chamber not wide ; the tube on its floor thin. 



The hermaphroditic gland clothing nearly the whole liver (with its 

 posterior end), as in the former specimen. The anterior genital mass 

 about 11.5 mm. long, by a height of 9.5 and a breadth of 5.0 mm., the 

 ducts also projecting 3.0 mm. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct 

 yellowish-white, about 35.0 mm. long, by sr diameter of 1.25 mm., run- 

 ning across the upper part of the left side of the genital mass, and 

 forming several windings on the anterior part of the upper margin. 



The large prostate as above (fig. 8b), dirty yellow ; 7.5 mm. long, 

 by a diameter at the upper end of about 4.0 mm. ; the part (fig. Sc), 

 from which the spermatoduct proceeds, much brighter than the rest of 

 the organ. The thin spermatoduct forming (fig. 8) a little coil at the 

 upper end of the penis; when unrolled about 12 mm. long. This last 

 (fig. 8rf, 9) organ strong, about 4.0 mm. long, by a diameter of 1.5 

 mm. ; the prominent orifice in the vestibulum (fig. 8e) with strong 

 longitudinal folds; the glans conical, filling nearly half (fig. 9) of the 

 cavity of the organ, the surface (under a power of 350) smooth. The 

 spermatotheca whitish, spherical, with a diameter of 3.5 mm. ; the 

 spermatocysta short, sausage-shaped, about 4.0 mm. long, of reddish- 

 yellow color. The duct from the spermatotheca to the vagina rather 

 thick, 3.5 mm. long ; the vagina larger than the penis, 6.0 mm. long, 

 by a diameter of 2.5 ; the inside with fine longitudinal folds, and with 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



sperma in the cavity. The mucous gland large, 9.0 mm. long, by a 

 height of 7.5 and a thickness of 4.0 mm. ; whitish, yellowish chalk- 

 white and yolk-yellow ; the duct rather short, with the usual strong 

 fold. The vestibulum with longitudinal folds. 



JORUNNA, Bergh. 



Jorunna, Bgh., Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Philipp. II, ii) Heft x, 1876, 

 p. 414, note. Gatt. nord. Doriden, Arch, fiir Naturges., xxxv, i, 1879, 

 p. 34«. 



Corpus subdepressum ; dorsum minutissime granulatum, sub-asperum, 

 branchia e foliis tripinnatis formata ; tentacula digitiformia ; poda- 

 rium sat latum, margine anteriore sulcatum, labio superiore latiore et 

 medio fisso. 



Armatura labialis nulla. Radula rhachide nuda, pleuris multiden- 

 tatis, dentibus hamatis. Penis stylo armatus ; glandula et hasta 

 amatoria. 



This genus was established by the author on the D. Johnstoni (1876) 

 in reference to the results of the anatomical examination of Hancock 

 and Embleton ; he regarded it as nearly allied to the Kentrodorides, 

 just founded by him.* After the present examination of the D. John- 

 stoni by the author he is not entirely certain of a generic difference 

 between the Jorunnce^ and the Kentrodorides. The latter have been 

 examined only from rather insufficient material, and the hasta has not 

 been seen in any of the species, only a papilla in connection with a 

 peculiar gland ; still the Kentrodorides are of a quite different habitus, 

 very soft, and the upper lip of the anterior margin of the foot is more de- 

 veloped, while the innermost plate of the tongue is somewhat different 

 from the others. If not identical with the Kentrodorides, the Jorunnce 

 are certainly very nearly allied to them. 



The Jorunnce are rather depressed ; the back finely granulated, 

 covered with equal minute papillulog ; the retractile gill formed of tri- 

 pinnate leaves ; the tentacles digitifoi-m ; the foot rather broad, deeply 

 grooved in the front margin, and the upper lip of this larger and cleft 

 in the middle line. The lip-disk not armed, covered with a simple 

 cuticula. The rhachis of the radula naked, the pleurae with many 

 hook-formed plates. In the vestibulum genitale are four apertures : 



^ R. Bergh, Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Philipp. II, ii) Heft x> 1876, 

 p. 413 427, Tab. XLIX-LI. 

 ^ Jorunna, Bjornis filia. Laxdiila-Saga. Hafniae, 1826, p. 21. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUIA. 47 



one for the penis, which is armed with a stylus ; another for a hasta 

 amatoria, through which opens a peculiar gland (quite as in the genus 

 Asteronotus) ;i a third for the vagina, and the fourth for the duct of 

 the mucous gland. 



Only one species of the genus seems hitherto known, belonging to 

 the northern part of the Atlantic Ocean. The spawn of the species 

 is known from Alder and Hancock, but nothing else is known of the 

 biology of the animal. 



1. J. Johnstoni (A. et H.). 



Doris Johnstoni, A. et H. Oceauum Atlantic, septentr. 



Jorunna Johnstoni (A. et H.). Plate VIII, fig. 19 ; Plate IX, fig. l-ll. 



Doris Johnstoni, Alder et Hanc. Monogr. Part I, 1845, fam. 1, PI. .5 ; Part 



V, 1851, fam. 1, PI. 2. f. 8-11. 

 Doris Johnstoni, Hanc. et Embleton, Anat. of Doris. Philos. Trans. 1853, 



II, p. 212, 215, 216, 220, 233, PI. XII, f. 2, 10 ; PI. XIV, f. 9, 10 ; 



PI. XV, f. 1-2 ; pi. XVII, f. 2-3. 

 Doris Johnstoni, Forbes and Hanley, Hist, of Br. Moll., Ill, 1853, p. 564. 

 .' Doris tomentosa, Cuv., Fischer. Jouru. de Conchyl., 3me Ser., x, 1870, 



p. 290 293 ; XV, 1875, p. 211, note. 

 .' Doris tomentosa, C. Verany, catalogo. 1846, p. 16-21. Ver., Hanc. et 



Embleton, 1. c. 1852, p. 220.'^ 

 ? Doris tomentosa, C. Philippi, En. Moll. Sic. I., 183, p. 104 ; II, 1844, p. 



79, Tab. XIX, f. 9. 



Color flavescens, dorso interdum maculis fuscis seriatis ornatus ; 

 rhinophoria fusco-maculata ; branchia albescens. 

 Hab. Oceanum Atlanticum septentr. 



This species, that was first described by Johnston under the name 

 of D. ohvelata (Miiller), was (1845) established by Alder and Han- 

 cock. Hancock gave a series of anatomical remarks upon this very 

 interesting form and of figures referable to it. Since then nothing 

 new seems to have been published about the species ; but a few months 

 ago I (1. 0.) gave a short notice of the generic characters of the 

 group. 



Of this form I have only examined a single specimen, captured in 

 March, 1870, in the neighborhood of Hellebak, on the north coast of 

 Seeland (Denmark). 



^ R. Bergh, Ueber das Geschlecbt Asteronotus, Ehrbg. Jahrb. der Deut- 

 scheu Malakozool. Ges., iv, 1877, p. 161-173, Taf. I-II. 



•^ According to Hancock and Embleton (1. c, p. 220), the dart (hasta 

 amatoria) in Doris Johnstoni is straight, in D. tomentosa, Ver., curved. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880 



The specimen was of a uniform yellowish color ; the rhinophoria 

 finely dotted with brown (but not the branchial leaves). The length 

 of the rather contracted and somewhat contorted individual was about 

 18.0 mm. by a greatest breadth of 10.0 and a height of about Y.O mm. ; 

 the height of the (retracted) rhinophoria 2.5, of the tentacles nearly 

 1.5, of the (retracted) gill 2.5 mm. ; the greatest breadth of the mantle- 

 margin 3.5 mm., of the foot 5 mm. 



The form is elongate-oval, the mantle-margin rather thick, not very 

 broad. The back covered all over with very minute granules, some- 

 times, especially on the middle of the back, crowded in irregular and 

 roundish small groups ; the under side of the mantle-margin smooth. 

 The (contracted) openings of the rhinophor-holes appear as a simple 

 transverse slit, the granules of the back reaching forward to the open- 

 ing, those in this neighborhood not larger than the rest. The club of 

 the rhinophoria stout, with about thirty^ broad leaves. The opening of 

 the gill-cavity small, transverse, triangular-crescentic, with the convexity 

 forwards (as contracted) ; the granules of the back reaching to the very 

 margin of the gill-slit, but not larger than the rest. The gill consisting 

 of eleven branchial leaves,^ five lateral pairs and an anterior unpaired 

 leaf; the anal tube low, truncate, nearly central; the renal pore at its 

 right side. The head rather small ; the tentacles digitiform, somewhat 

 flattened. The sides of the body nearly imperceptible ; the genital 

 opening contracted. ^ The foot rather strong, somewhat pointed at the 

 end ; the anterior margin with a deep furrow, the superior lip rather 

 strong and prominent, cleft in the median line. 



The peritoneum with very fine dark points (brown -black) spread 

 everywhere ; entirely without true spicules. 



The central nervous system showed the cerebro-visceral ganglia 

 somewhat elongate, thicker and broader in the posterior part, nearly 

 not excavated in the exterior margin ; the pedal ones of oval form, 

 larger than the visceral. The olfactory ganglia very short-stalked, 

 bulbiform, a little smaller than the buccal ; a small optic ganglion, the 

 optic nerve short. At the inferior side of the posterior part of the 

 right visceral (fig la) ganglion is a short-stalked (fig. lb) ganglion 

 genitale giving off several nerves, one of them has at its root another 

 ganglion (fig. Ic). The common commissure not longer than the 



' Alder and Hancock mention merely ten to fifteen leaves. 

 ^ Alder and Hancock mention fifteen leaves. 



' The representation of the penis (?) (1. c. PI. 5, f. 3) by Alder and Haa- 

 cock cannot be correct. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



transverse diameter of the pedal ganglion, rather strong. The buccal 

 ganglia of roundish form, connected through a very short commissure ; 

 the gastro-tiesophageal ganglia short-stalked, reaching scarcely one- 

 quarter of the size of the former, with one very large and some 

 smaller cells.' 



The eyes with black pigment and shining, horn-yellow lens. The 

 otocysts at the slight emargination at the outer margin of the cerebro- 

 visceral ganglia, crammed with otokonia of the usual kind. The broad 

 leaves of the rhinophoria stiffened in the usual way by long, much 

 calcified spicula, perpendicular on the free margin of the leaves. The 

 skin of the back crowded with spicula,^ mostly very large and much 

 calcified; in the rather low (height 0.5 mm.) granules (fig. 2) crowded 

 erect spicules. In the interstitial tissue of the intestines true spicula 

 are neither many nor large. 



The mouth-tube about 2.0 mm. long, strong, rather wide, quite as 

 usual. The bulbus pharyngeus .3.0 mm. long, with a height of 2.8 

 and reaching a breadth of 2.5 mm. ; the rasp-sheath also projecting 

 1.0 mm. from the hindermost part of the under side of the bullus. The 

 form of the bulbus and its retractors as usual ; the lip-disk whitish, 

 clothed with a yellowish cuticula. The tongue of usual form ; on the 

 shining horny-yellow radula eleven rows of teeth, further backwards 

 twelve developed and four younger rows ; the total number of rows 

 thus twenty-seven. 3 The teeth of yellowish color ; the height of the 

 outermost 0.06, of the next 0.08 mm. ; the height reaches at most 

 about 0.22 mm. The two foremost rows were rather incomplete, in 

 the fourth row were twenty-four, and the number of teeth then in- 

 creases to twenty-seven.^ The rhachis (fig. 3a) rather broad. The 

 plates of the usual form,^ with the usual wing-like expansion of the 

 exterior part of the body and of the root of the hook (figs. 4, 5) ; the 

 first (fig. 3) with lower hook, which on the succeeding teeth slowly 



1 This representation of the central nervous system in most points agrees 

 with that of Hancock and Embleton (1. c. p. 233, PI. XVII, tig. 2, 3). 



2 Collingwood (Annals and Mag. of N. Hist., 3 Ser., Ill, IS^jQ, p. 462) 

 mentions the spicules of this species (from the estuary of the Mersey) as 

 "very elegant, consisting of a broad embossed ph\te with a double and 

 beautifully serrated edge, tei'minating abruiitly in a blunt apex." 



" Alder and Hancock mention twenty-four rows, whereof eleven were on 

 the tongue. 



■• Alder and Hancock mention twenty-five plates in the rows. 



^ Cf. my Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Philipp. II, ii), Heft XIV., 1878, 

 (Asteronotus), p. 036. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



increases in height ; then the teeth keep the same height and decrease 

 again in the outer part of the rows (fig. 5) ; the four to six interior 

 teeth are more erect, with shorter body and thinner hook (figs. 5, G). 



The salivary glands long, thin, whitish.^ The esophagus about 

 6 mm. long, rather wide, with strong longitudinal folds.- The stomach 

 small, included in the liver ; the biliary apertures as usual. 



The intestine issues through the liver behind the region of junc- 

 tion of the first and second third of the liver ; the first anteriorly pro- 

 ceeding part lodged in a groove on the superior side of the liver, not 

 passing beyond the antei'ior margin of that organ, about 2.5 mm. in 

 length ; the rest of the intestine about 10.0 mm. in length ; the diameter 

 of the intestine 0.8-1.3 mm. ; the longitudinal folds rather strong. 



The liver of yellowish color, more grayish on the surface; 9.0 mm. 

 in length, by a breadth of 5.5 and a height of 4.0 mm. ; the posterior 

 end rounded ; more than the anterior half of the under side, especially 

 its right part, is excavated (for the anterior genital mass) and behind 

 this is a deep transverse groove. The vesica fellea lying at the left 

 side of the offshoot of the intestine, rather small, in height about 1.25 

 mm., reaching nearly to the surface of the liver, nearly cylindrical. 



The heart as usual. The sanguineous glands whitish, rather 

 flattened ; the anterior obliquely triangular with the point, as usual, 

 adhering to the under side of the junction of the two cerebral ganglia ; 

 in length 2.0 by a breadth of 1.5 mm. ; the posterior transversely 

 elongate-oval, with a breadth of 3.5 by a length of 1.5 mm. The 

 renal syrinx melon-shaped, its largest diameter about 0.75 mm. ; its 

 free duct nearly three times as long ; a strong continuation of it pass- 

 ing along the floor of the rather large renal chamber, to the region of 

 the pylorus. 



The hermaphroditic gland spread in large groups of ramifications 

 over nearly the whole liver and by its brighter yellowish color some- 

 what contrasted with it ; in its lobules were masses of zoJsperHis and 

 rather small ojgene cells. The anterior genital mass^ in length 5.0 by 

 a breadth of 2.5 and a height of 4.0 mm. ; the right side rather con- 

 vex, meeting the more flattened left side at the sharp superior margin, 



^ They are in this way also mentioned by H. and E. (1. c, p. 215, PI, XII, 

 fig. 2cc) . 



2 The dilatation on the oesophagus mentioned and figured by H. and E. 

 (1. c, p. 215, PI. XII, fig. 2d) could not be seen in the specimen examined 

 by me. 



« Cf. the PI. XIV, f. 9, of Hancock and Embleton. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PUILADELPHIA. 51 



the under side flattened. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic gland 

 resting on the superior posterior part of the genital mass, whitish, 

 making a large curve, about 5.0 mm. long, with a diameter of nearly 

 1.5 mm. The spermatoduct in its first part, as near as could be de- 

 termined, rather thick than thin, not very long, forming (fig. He, 7e) 

 a little coil on the upper end of the penis. The penis (fig. 7/) cylin- 

 drical, curved, about 2.5 mm. long, by a diameter of about 0.8 mm. ; 

 the inside with many longitudinal folds ; at the upper end of its cavity 

 a low truncated conical prominence (fig. 115), with a rather wide 

 aperture (fig. lib), through which opens a little bag (fig. 11), whose 

 inside was clothed with a thin yellowish cuticula, and contained a 

 hollow, nearly colorless tube, that could be extended by tension ; it 

 was probably pointed (the point seemed broken ofl') ; its length was 

 about 0.9 mm. ; the spermatoduct opened (fig. 11a) in the upper part 

 of this bag. Hancock has (1. c. PI. XIV, fig. dc, 10; PI. XV, fig. 

 1, 2) seen the penis and the "stiletto," but he too seems (1. c. p. 220) 

 not at all clear about these organs. At the side of the opening for 

 the penis in the vestibulum genitale was another aperture which led 

 into a bag, from whose bottom projected a hard, whitish, somewhat 

 compressed conical spur (fig. Id, 10), that under the influence of nitric 

 acid grew more pellucid, but developed very little gas ; through the 

 axis of the organ down to the fine aperture on the point, passes a 

 slender tube (fig. 10), the continuation of the fine coiled duct of the 

 gland of the organ. ^ This gland (glandula hastatoria, fig. 7e, Sd) 

 overlies the upper part of the vagina (fig. 1a,i) ; it is heart-shaped, 

 of a transverse diameter (breadth) of 2.0, and a thickness of 1.0 mm.; 

 the gland did not contain any larger cavity. The spermatotheca (fig. 

 8a) whitish, nearly spherical, having a largest diameter of 2.5 mm. ; 

 filled with fatty cells and detritus ; the two ducts (fig. 8e, e) as usual, 

 the vagina rather wide (fig. 7a, b), with longitudinal folds on the in- 

 side. The spermatocysta yellowish, spherical, 1.5 mm. in diameter 

 (fig. 8b), filled with zoV.sperms ; short-stalked. The mucous gland 

 not forming quite half of the anterior genital mass, consisting of a 

 smaller anterior biconvex part, and a large flattened wing-like poste- 

 rior part ; the space between them nearly filled by the spermatotheca 



> These organs, the gland and the spur, have also been seen (1. c, PI. 

 XV, fig. 9) by Hancock, but lie does not mention them (in the text, and 

 explanation of the figures). In another of his figures (fig. 105) the spur 

 is designated (1. c., p. 248) as "male intromittent organ, ' and the (fig. 

 lOe, /) true penis as "penis-like organ furnished with a stiletto " 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



4 



and the spermatocysta, the color of the gland yellowish-white, on the 

 left side of the anterior part a central yellow mass; the duct of 

 the mucous gland rather short. 



All the former genera of Dorididce belonored to the larfje "roup of 

 Dorididee cryptohranchiatse ;^ the following are to be registered in the 

 group of Dorididce eleiitherohranchiatse (D. phanerohrancliiatse). 

 This section is also characterized by the non-retractility of the gill, 

 by a sucking-crop connected with the bulbus pharyngeus and by a 

 peculiar armature of the tongue, consisting usually of a single large 

 lateral plate and a single or several outer plates. This group seems 

 chiefly limited to nortliern climes, and contains at present the genera 

 Akiodoris, Acantlwdoris, Adalarid, LameUidoris, Goniodoris and 

 Doridunculus,'^ also Ancula, Drepania^ and Idalia. 



AKIODORIS, Bcrgh 

 Akiodoris, Bgh. Gattungen nordisclier Dorideu, 1. c, 1879, -p. 354. 



Forma ut in LameUidoridibiis. Nothseum supra granulosum. 

 Branchia non retractilis, e fuliis tripinnatis non multis et ad modum 

 ferri equini positis formata. Caput latum, veliforme ; tentaculis 

 brevibus, lobiformibus. Apei turte rhinophoriales integrse. 



Discus labialis sine armatura. Ingluvies buccalis bulbo connata. 

 Radula rhachide quasi nuda ; pleuris dentibus lateralibus depj'essis non 

 multis; (12-13) quorum duo intimi fortiores, quasi subhamati. Penis 

 glande uncis simplicibus, furcatis vel palmatis armatus. Vagina in- 

 dumento valloso peculiari instructa. 



The animals belonging to this group resemble externally especially 

 the LameUidorides. The back is finely granulated ; the head large, 

 veil-shaped, with short tentacles, which are lobate and pointed The 

 openings of the rhinophor-holes with plain margins, surrounded by 

 several larger papilla?. The non retractile branchia nearly horseshoe- 

 shaped, consisting of a mediocre number of leaves. The lip-disk 



^ Cf. my "Gattungen nordisclier Doriden," 1. c. p. 341. 



^ The genu?, Doridu7iculus of G. O. Sars fMoll. regionis ai'cticse Xorveg., 

 1878, p. 309. Tab. 27, fig. 2a~d, Tab. XIV, fig. 5), whicli externally ap- 

 proaches Goniodoris and other Dorididce eleutherobranchiaton in the char- 

 acter of the radula, is hitherto only known from the northeas'ern part of 

 the Atlantic (Lofoten), and by a single species {D. ecliinulatus, S. ). 



^ In the Ancula and Drepanice the penis is armed as in so many Dorididce 

 with a series of small hooks. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHTA. 53 



without armature. The tongue with transverse thickenings of the 

 rhacliis ; the lateral plates somewhat depressed ; the two first different 

 from the rest, larger and with a denticle at the root of the hook ; the rest 

 without any such, the external quite without a liook. A sucking-crop 

 on the upper side of the bulbus pharyngeus, but sessile, depressed con- 

 ical, and not consisting of two symmetrical halves. The large 

 stomach free on the surface of the liver. The glans of the long 

 penis with a strong and quite peculiar armature, consisting of strong 

 hooks, partly simple, partly bifurcate and partly digitate, with strong 

 digitations. The vagina with a peculiar armature of high palisades. 



This interesting genus externally most resembles the LameUidorides, 

 both in reference to the nature of the back, to the form and size 

 of the gill and in the want of armature of the lip-disk ; the region of 

 the openings of the rhinophor-holes differ in the want of a glabella 

 and by the presence of a larger number of surrounding papilte. The 

 genital opening somewhat recalls the Acanthodorides, as do also the 

 (tripinnate) branchial leaves and the sucking-crop, but this is not 

 divided in two distinct halves as in this last genus. The armature 

 of the tongue is very different from that of the LamelUdorides, 

 Adalarise and Acanthodorides ; the large hook-formed lateral plates 

 of these genera are wanting, and in their places are two large de- 

 pressed lateral plates, with small hooks ; the external plates somewhat 

 recalling those of the Adalarise ; the rhachis rather broad, with 

 transverse thickenings of the cuticula, corresponding to the rows of 

 plates. In the very peculiar form of armature of the glans penis, and 

 by the peculiar clothing of the vagina, the Akiodorides differ from all 

 the above-cited genera. 



Only a single species of the genus is hitherto known, the new one, 

 that wnll be described below. 



1. Ak. lulescens, Bgli., n. sp. Oceanum Pacificum. 



1. Ak. lutescens, Bgh., n. sp. PI. IV, fig. 3; pi. V, fig. 11-U: pi. VI, fig. 1-20; 

 pi. VII, fig. 1-8; pi. VIII, fig. 1-2. 



Color lutescens. 



Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum septentrion. (Nazan Bay). 



Of this form I have had a large single specimen for examination, 

 obtained in August, 1873, by Dall, on stony bottom, at low water, in 

 Nazan Bay, Atka Island, Aleutians. 



According to Dal), the color of the living animal was "yellowish- 

 white;" preserved in spirits, it was of a uniform dirty yellowish color. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The length was 32.0 mm., by a breadth of 19.0 mm., and a height of 

 13.0 mm, ; the breadth of the foot 12.5 mm., of the mantle-brim 3.0 

 mm. ; the height of the rhinophoria 3.0 mm., of the branchial leaves 

 2.5 mm. ; the length of the genital opening 2.25 mm. 



The form was elongate-oval, somewhat larger than that of the Lam. 

 hilamellata. The papillae of the back relatively smaller and more 

 rounded than in that animal. The openings of the rhinophor-holes 

 an oblique oval slit ; the margins plain ; several (six to eight) larger 

 papilliB (of about 1.0 mm. in height) in the immediate vicinity of the 

 holes ; the club of the rhinophoria with about thirty leaves. The 

 branchia with about ten leaves. The anal papilla low, with a stellate 

 aperture ; the renal orifice as usual ; the interbranchial space crowded 

 with rather pointed and high papillae. The head and tentacles as in 

 allied forms. The genital papilla of oval form, with a large, longitu- 

 dinal, crescentic slit. The rather broad foot with the usual anterior 

 marginal furrow. The peritoneum colorless, without spicula. 



The central nervous system more flattened than in allied forms ; 

 the cerebro- visceral ganglia reniform, a little broader in the anterior 

 part ; the pedal ganglia less flattened than the former, larger than the 

 visceral ones, of oval form, on the outside of the cerebro-visceral. The 

 proximal olfactory ganglia a little smaller than the buccal ones, bulbi- 

 form ; distal ganglia could not be found. The commissure not broad, 

 not short. The buccal ganglia of oval form, closely connected ; the 

 gastro-oesophageal roundish, rather long-stalked, in size about one- 

 sixth of the former, with one large cell and several (three or four) 

 smaller ones. 



The nervi optici rather long; the eyes with yellowish lens and 

 black pigment. The otocysts in the usual place, filled with otokonia 

 of the usual kind. The leaves of the club of the rhinophoria very 

 richly furnished with thick (diameter, 0.04 mm.) and long spicula, 

 more or less calcareous, and very often giving off a thick twig of 

 greater or less length (PI, V, fig. 12) ; for the most part set perpen- 

 dicularly or obliquely on the free margin of the leaves. The axes of 

 the organs and the short stalk stuffed with strong and very much cal- 

 cified spicules. In the skin of the back a mass of spicula of the same 

 kind (PI. IV, fig. 13) as above, or still more hardened ; the papillie of 

 the back solidified in the usual way (PI. V, fig. 11). In the interstitial 

 tissue fewer and smaller spicules. 



The oral tube rather short, wide. The bulbus pharyngeus of usual 

 form, about 5.5 mm, long by a height of 4.5 ram., (and at the upper 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



part of the sucking-crop of 5.5 mm.), and a breadth of 4.75 mm. ; 

 the sheath of the radula projecting about 1.3 mm. backwards and 

 downwards. The lip-disk large, clothed with a thick yellow cuticula ; 

 the true mouth forming a narrow vertical slit. The cap-shaped suck- 

 ing-crop almost exactly as in Ac. pilosa, but more conical and with- 

 out external signs of duplication : on the inside clothed with a yellow- 

 ish cuticula, opening into the buccal cavity through a wide slit. The 

 tongue rather broad ; on the fine reddish-yellow colored radula seven- 

 teen rows of teeth, also on the point of the tongue were traces of six 

 entirely vanished rows ; the two first rows very incomplete, reduced to 

 some external plates. Further backwards were seen forty-two devel- 

 oped and three younger rows, or, all in all, the animal presented sixty- 

 two rows of teeth. The most external plate of each row is quite 

 colorless, the next two or three pale yellowish, the following all of 

 horny-yellow color ; the rhachis colorless. The length of the most 

 external plate about 0.0.35 mm., of the next about 0.05 mm., of the 

 following 0.07 mm. ; the length of the second large plate about 0.2 

 mm., of the first 0.022 mm. ; the breadth of the rhachis about 0.22 

 mm. The rhachis thickened between the rows and forming arched 

 elevations between them (PI. VI, fig. la, 3 ; PI. VIII, fig. la). The 

 first two plates rather large (PI. VI, fig. Ibb, cc, 4-6; PI. VIII, fig. 

 16, c) ; with a short strong hook and a stout denticle at each side of 

 it, the outer denticle broader ; the hook of the second plate somewhat 

 larger than that of the first ; sometimes a slight crenulation on the 

 outer margin of the first plate (fig. 5). All the following ten or eleven 

 plates (PI. VI, fig. 2e, /; PI. VIII, fig. 2a, b) of the same type, by 

 degrees decreasing in size, consisting of a quadrilateral basal part, 

 from which (PI. VI, fig. 7-13), in most of them, rises a strong, short, 

 broad hook ; the two or three outmost plates (PI, VI, fig. 2/; PI. VIII, 

 fig. 2) formed of the basal part alone ; the rest with the hook gradu- 

 ally more developed 



The salivary glands yellowish-white, flattened, ribbon-shaped, of 

 about 10.5 mm. in length, reaching to the cardia, where they 

 are agglutinated one to another ; the breadth in the foremost part 

 about 0.75 mm , in the middle 1.5 mm., the posterior part again some- 

 what narrower ; the duct of the gland rather short. 



The oesophagus rather wide, about 13.0 mm. long, the inside with 

 rather strong longitudinal folds ; it opens into the stomach, which lies 

 free in a cleft on the upper side of the liver. This organ (PI. VI, fig. 

 17a) is of oval form, of about (3.5 ram. largest diameter; the inside 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



with rather strong longitudinal folds; the pylorus (fig. 17) in the 

 neighborhood of the cardia. The intestine advancing from the stom- 

 ach to the fore-end (fig. 176) of the liver, in this part about 10.0 mm. 

 long ; forming a knee and retrograding to the anal nipple in a length 

 of 23.0 mm. The contents of the stomach were indeterminable animal 

 matter, mixed with some diatomacea;. 



The liver 20.0 mm. long by a height of 10.0 mm. and a breadth of 

 about 12.0 mm. ; the posterior end rounded ; a little more than the an- 

 terior half of the under side obliquely flattened (by the anterior genital 

 mass) showing the cardiac end of the a?5ophagus and the root of the 

 hermaphroditic duct. On the anterior part of the upper surface is a 

 cleft for the stomach and for the biliary sac ; the color of the surface 

 and of the substance of the liver is grayish-yellow. The biliary sac 

 (fig. 17c) lying before the stomach, on the right side of the intestine, 

 large fas the stomach), somewhat flattened, grayish, of rounded out- 

 line and about 4.5 mm. largest diameter ; the contents, as in the 

 stomach. 



The heart as usual. The sanguineous gland whitish, entirely cover- 

 ing the nervous system, about G.O mm. long, by a breadth of 4.5 and a 

 height of only 1.0 mm. 



The hermaphroditic gland yolk-yellow, covering the upper side of 

 the liver with a thick layer ; in its lobes large o'jgene cells and masses 

 of zoJsperms. The anterior genital mass large, about 14.0 mm. long 

 by a breadth of 9.0 and a height of 11.0 mm., flattened and a little ex- 

 cavated on the left side, with an excavation on the fore side, the right 

 side very convex. The hermaphroditic duct whitish, rather thin 

 (diameter about 0.75-1.0 mm.), passing straight over the left side of 

 the genital mass to its anterior end, without formation of any (distinct) 

 ampulla. The first part of the spermatoduct whitish, forming several 

 long windings on the upper part of the forepart of the mass and pass- 

 ing into the yellowish (PI. VI, fig. 18a) continuation ; this, with its 

 numerous coils, forms a large flattened layer on the fore-end of the 

 right side of the mass ; it then rather suddenly passes into a much 

 thinner whitish continuation (fig. I8b) about 6 mm. long, that slopes 

 (fig. 18c) into the penis, which (retracted) was lying on the lowest 

 anterior part of the right side of the mass. The penis was cylindrical, 

 of the length of 11.0 mm. by a diameter of 1.5 mm. ; the truncated, 

 cylindrical, yellowish (under a magnifier nodulous) glans forming 

 (PL V, fig. 13, 14) a prominence of the length of nearly 1.0 mm. in 

 the vestibulum. This glans was partly covered on the outer side 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OP PHILADELPHIA. 57 



(fig. 13, 14), but especially on the margin of the wide, gaping orifice 

 and on its inside for a length of about 4.0 mm. (PI. VII, figs. 2-4), 

 with rather crowded and apparently irregularly set claws. The claws 

 were very strong and for the most part broad and high (fig. 3, 4), 

 even reaching a height of about 0.3 mm. (fig. 4). In the interior of 

 the glans, especially in its posterior part (fig. 5c), the claws were less 

 broad and simply uncinate or bifurcated, otherwise mostly broader and 

 with digitations of the margin. The body of the claws was plain or 

 curved ; the end simply pointed, bi- or trifurcate or with digitations, 

 sometimes very strangely formed. They consisted of a cuticula and 

 its matrix ; very often, especially on the outside of the glans, the 

 cuticula was torn off and the (fig. 20) rounded or pointed naked matrix 

 was left. The whitish spherical spermatotheca (PL VI, fig. 19a) was 

 about 3.5 mm. in diameter, laterally communicating tnrough a short 

 petiolus adhering to tne upper end of the vagina, with a sinuosity intO' 

 which opens the elongate, yellowish spermatocysta (fig. 19i), which had 

 a length of about 2.0 mm., and from which issues the long duct of the 

 mucous gland (fig. 19c). The grayish vagina very strong (fig. 18e),. 

 about 7.0 mm. long, elongate-conical; the lowest part wide, having a 

 diameter of about 3.25 mm. ; the walls thick, with a very peculiar 

 internal lining, consisting of cylindrical palisades (PI. VII, fig. 6-8) 

 of a height of about 0.4 by a greatest diameter of 0.07-0.08 mm. ; 

 between the larger were seen smaller and very small ones. The pali- 

 sades seemed to be densely clothed (fig. 8) with cilia, and showed a 

 nearly colorless axis (fig. 6, 8) up to their points ; the axes were often 

 denuded (fig. 6) after the sheath has been torn away. This lining 

 continued up to the superior end of the vagina, but not beyond it. 



The mucous gland large, whitish, and yellowish-white ; the anterior 

 half yolk-yellow, denuded on the fore-end of the genital mass ; the duct 

 short. 



A variety (PI. VI, fig. 14-20) of this species has also been found 

 by Dall, in July, 1873, at low water, in Kyska Harbor (Aleutians). 

 According to Dall the color of the living animal was " yellowish." T he 

 animal preserved in spirits was of a uniform light yellowish color. The 

 length about 18.0 mm. by a breadth reaching 8.0 mm and a height of 

 6.0 mm. ; the breadth of the foot at the fore-end 5.0 mm., the margin 

 of the mantle freely projecting 1.5 mm. ; the height of the rhinophoria 

 ' 1.5 mm., of the branchial leaves 1.5 mm. Around the plain margins 

 of the rhinophor-holes seven to nine large conical tubercles ; the club 

 of the rhinophoria with about twenty leaves Around the branchial 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



ring, as well as in the centre of it around the vent, rather large conical 

 tubercles 1.5 mm. in height; the branchial leaves, fifteen in number, 

 as far as could be determined. 



The oral tube strong, 4.5 mm. long, wide. The bulbus pharyngeus 

 about 5.5 mm. long, by a height of 3.0, and a breadth of 3.75 mm. ; 

 the rasp-sheath about 1.75 mm., freely projecting, bent upwards. The 

 cuticula of the lip-disk yellowish. The tongue with about thirty-five 

 rows of plates (fig. 14-16) ; further backwards, twenty-five developed 

 and four younger rows ; the total number of rows sixty-four On the 

 posterior part of the tongue fourteen plates, the number increasing 

 backwards to fifteen or sixteen. The five anterior rows very incom- 

 plete, only represented by 1, 7, 9, 10, 12 plates (on each side). The 

 plates as above. The breadth of the rhachis reaching to about 0.17 mm. 

 The glandulae salivales 6.0 mm. long. ^The stomach (fig. 17o) about 

 4.0 mm. long. The contents of the digestive cavity a mass of sponge. 

 The vesica fellea (fig. 17c) about 2.5 mm. high, with strong folds on 

 the inside. The anterior genital mass quite as above, also the sper- 

 matotheca and the spermatocysta (fig. 19j, the penis (fig. 18, 20), and 

 the vagina (fig. 18, 19). 



LAMELLIDORIS, Alder et Hancock. 



Lamellidoris, A. et H., Monogr. Brit. Nudibi". Moll., Part VII, 1855, p. xvii. 

 Lamellidoris, A. et H., R. Bei-gh, Malacolog. Untersuch. (Semper, Philipp. 



II, ii). Heft xiv, 1878, p. 603-615. 

 Lamellidoris, A. et H., R. Bergh, Gatt. nord. Doriden, 1. c, 1879, p. 



362-365. 



Corpus vix depressum, nothoeo granulate. Branchia (non retracti- 

 lis) e foliis (multis) simplicita pinnatis, ut plurimura in formam ferri 

 equini dispositis, formata. Caput latum, semilunare, angulis tentacu- 

 laribus. Aperturte rhinophoriales, margine integro ; tuberculis anticis 

 2-3, calvitie postica. 



Cuticula apertura? oralis infra asserculis duobus incrassata, et ante 

 annulus papillarum angustus. Lingua rhachide lamellis humilibus in- 

 structa ; pleuris dente interno hamiforrai permaguo et externo com- 

 presso lamelliformi unco minuto pra^dito armatis. Ingluvies buccalis 

 (suctoria) petiolo bulbo pharyngeo connata, tympaniformis. 



Penis apice (glaude) curvatus, non armatus. Vagina brevis. 



The genus Lamellidoris was established (1855) by Alder and Han- 

 cock, to receive two small groups of Dorididee., one with the D. hilam- 

 ellata as type, to which especially the name of the group is here 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



restricted ; and the other, characterized by a more depressed form and 

 the naked rhachis of the tongue, with the B. depressa, A. et H., as 

 type. Hancock has given some anatomical remarks on the typical 

 form {D. bilamellata, L.) ; but nothing else had been since made 

 known about these animals' until my just cited notice and those of G. 

 O. Sars.2 



The Lamellidorides approach the Acanthodorides, but differ even 

 here, externally, by the coarsely granulated surface of the back and 

 by the larger number of the branchial leaves, which are set in the 

 form of a horseshoe ; the openings of the rhinophor-holes, the tenta- 

 cles as well as the genital opening are also of a different shape. 

 More notable still are the anatomical differences ; the Lamellidorides 

 want the armature of the lip-disk, which is found in the other group ; 

 the armature of the tongue is quite different (1, I — 1 — I, 1), and the 

 buccal crop is connected with the bulbus pharyngeus by a stalk. The 

 penis is quite different from that of the Acanthodorides, and without 

 true armature ; the vagina is short. After all the Lamellidorides are 

 much more allied to the Adalarice. 



The form of the body, as in the Acanthodorides, not very depressed. 

 The back covered all over with semi-globular and short club-formed 

 papillae. The openings of the rhinophor-holes with plain margins and 



1 According to H. & A, Adams (the Gen. of Recent Moll., II, 1858, p. 

 657), Lamellidoris is a synonym of ^^ OncMdoris, Blv.," which name is 

 employed by Adams for a group, whose type should be D. pusilla, A., ec 

 H. (that scarcely belongs to the true Lamellidorides). Cf. also Gray, 

 Guide I, 1857, p. 307. 



The genus Onchidoris of Blainville (Man. de Malac, 1825, p. 489, 

 PI. XLVI, f. 8.), ought to be rejected entirely, as founded very likely only 

 on bad observation ; the genus figures with nearly impossible characters, 

 both in relation to the tentacles ("quatre teutacules comme dans les Dori», 

 outre deux appendices labiaux") and to the anus ("median a la partie 

 inferieure et posterieure du rebord du manteau"). The type of the genus 

 Blainville found in the British Mus. (London), where it seemed to have 

 disappeared, at least it was not to be found in the collection of nudi- 

 branchiates which I looked over in May, 1873 (while, on the coutraiy, I 

 found the long-lost type of the genus Linguella, Blv., in his original glass, 

 and so have re-established the denomination Linguella for the much later 

 (1861) Sancara, Bgh. Cf. my Malacolog. Unters., Heft vi, 1874, p. 248). 

 Later, Mr. Abraham (1. c. p. 235) seems to have found the original speci- 

 men again. 



■^ G. O. Sars, Moll. reg. arct. Norv., 1878, p. 306. Tab. XIII, figs. 5, 6 ; 

 Tab. XIV, fig. 2, 3. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



commonly two larger papillae before and a bare space behind them. 

 The gill (not retractile) consisting chiefly of several (usually 20-30) 

 tripinnate leaves, set in the form of a horseshoe. The head large, 

 veil-formed (semilunar), with produced and pointed side-parts, which 

 are adherent to the foot nearly to the point. The genital openings 

 not being a slit, but on a large tubercle. 



The cuticula of the oral aperture is thickened below, near the median 

 line, into a ledge ; and on the outside is a ring of hard papillae. 

 The buccal crop, connected through a petiolus with the foremost part 

 of the upper side of the bulbus pharyngeus, is drum-shaped ; on the in- 

 side clothed with a strong cuticula. The tongue has on the rhachis 

 short compressed lamellce, on each side of these is a very large up- 

 right plate with large compressed body and a hook which on the inside 

 is either plain or denticulated j at the outside of this plate is another, 

 compressed but much smaller and with a little rudimentary hook. The 

 salivary glands forming a short, coiled mass at each side of the root 

 of the oesophagus. The oesophagus without diverticle at its origin. 

 The spermatoduct (as in the Acanthodorides) very long ; the penis 

 short, its glans curved and clothed with a rather thick cuticula, but 

 otherwise not armed. The spermatocysta imbedded in the mucous 

 gland ; ^ the vagina short. 



About the biological relations of the animals belonging to this 

 group very little is hitherto known. Where the species occur, they 

 seem to be rather abundant in individuals (cf. about the Lam. 

 bilamellata, Collingwood, in Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 3 S. Ill, 1859, p. 

 463). The spawn of several species (L. bilamellata, L. diaphana, L. 

 inconspicua, L. aspera, L. depressa, L. pusilla) has been described 

 by Alder and Hancock, and that of a single species (Z. muricata) by 

 Sars, Meyer and Moebius, etc. The first stages of the development 

 of this last form have been followed by Sars ^ 



The group seems limited to the northern part of the Atlantic and 

 of the Pacific. To the same belong with certainty some properly ex- 

 amined species, and, besides, several others mentioned in the litera- 

 ture can, with more or less probability, be referred to it. 



' The spermatocysta has not been seen by Alder and Hancock. Cf. 1. c, 

 1852. PI. XIV, fig. 8 (p. 219). 



2 Archiv. fur Naturges, 1840 p. 210, Tab. 7. 




1880,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Gl 



A. 



I. L. Mlamellata (L.). Oc. Atlant. 



2- L. varians, Bgh., n. sp. Oc. Pacif. 



3. L. Jiystricina, Bgh., n. sp. Oc. Pacif. 



4. L. muricata (O. Fr, Miiller). Oc. Pacif. 



5. L. diaphana (Aid. et Hanc). Oc. Atlant. 



B. diaphana, A. et H., Moiiogr. Part ii, fam. 1, PI. 10 ; Part vii, PL 

 46 suppl. fig. 9. 



6. L. aspera (A. et H.).^ Oc. Atlant. 



D. aspera, A. et H., 1. e., Part v, fam. 1, PI. 2, fig. 15 ; Part vi, fam. 

 1, PI. 9, fig. 1-9; Part vii, PI. 46, suppl. text ; PI. 48, suppl. fig. 2. 



B. 



7. L. sparsa (A. et H.). Oc. Atlant. 



D. sparsa, A. et H., 1. c, Part iv, fara. 1, PI. 14 ; Part vii, PI. 46, 



supi>l. test. 

 8- £. depressa {A. et H.j. Oc. Atlant. 



D. depressa, A. et H., 1. c, Part v, fam. 1, PI. 12, fig. 1-8 ; Part vii, 



PI. 46, suppl. fig 12. 

 f Villiersia scutigera, d'Orb., Mag. de Zool., 1837, p. 15, PI. 109, fig. 



1-4. 



9. L. ineonspicua (A. et H. ). Oc. Atlant. 



D. ineonspicua, A. et H., 1. c. Part v, fam. 1, PI. 12, fig. 9-16 ; Part 

 vii, PI. 46, suppl. fig- 13. 



10. L. oUonga (A. et H.). Oc. Atlant. 



D. ohlonga, A. et H., 1. c, Part v, fam. 1, PI. 16, fig. 4-5; Part vii, 

 PI. 46, suppl. fig. 10. 



II. L. pusilla (A. et H.). Oc. Atlant. 



D. pusilla, A. et H., 1. c. Part ii, fam. 1, PI. 13 ; Part vii, PI. 46, 

 suppl. text ; app. p. iii. 



12. L. luteocincta (M. Sars).* Oc. Atlant. 



13. L. (?) ulidiana (Thomps.). Oc. Atlant. 



D. ulidiana, Th., Ann. Mag., Nat. Hist., xv, 18, p. 31. 



D. ulidiana, Th., Aid. et Hanc, 1. c. Part vii, p. 42, app. p. ii. 



14. L. (?) tenella (Agassiz). Oc. Atlant. 



D. tenella, Ag., Gould, Rep. ou the Inv. of Massachusetts, ed. Binney, 

 1870, p. 329, PI. XX, fig. 289j 290, 293. 



15. L. (f) pallida (Ag.). Oc. Atlant. 



Z>. pallida, Ag., Gould, 1. c, p. 229, PL xx, fig. 284, 287, 288, 291. 



' According to Morcb (Synopsis Moll. mar. Daniae, Vidensk. Meddel. fra 

 naturh. Foren. i Kbhvn., 1871, p. 179) this species ought to be identical 

 with the D. muricata of Meyer and Moebius ; but this is, of course, im- 

 possible. 



■^ The organs of the bulbus pliaryngeus of this species have just been 

 figured by G. O. Sars (MolL reg. arct. Norv., 1878, Tab. xiv, fig. 3). 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



16. L. (?) diademata (Ag.). 6c. Atlant. 



D. diademata, Ag., Gould, 1. c, p. 230, PI. xxi, fig. 298, 300, 301-304. 



17. L. [?) grisea (Stimps.j. Oc. Atlaut. Gould, 1. c, p. 232, PI. xx, iig. 



292, 295. 



18. L. (f) derelicta (Fischer). Oc. Atlant. 



B. derelicta, F., Jouiu. de conch yl., xv, 1867, p. 7. 



19. L. (?) iuberculata (Hutton). Oc. Pacif. (Nova Zeland.). 



Onchidoris tuberculatus, Hutton, cf. Abraham, 1. c, p. 226. 



20. L. (?) eubalia (Fischer). Oc. Atlant. 



Doris eubalia, F., Journ. de couchyl., xx, 1872, p. 10. 



1. L. bilamellata (L.), var. jooci/ica. Plate V, fig. 10; Plate XT, fig, 3-9. 



Color albido-flavescens, maculis fuscis plus minusve variegatus. 



Dentes laterales margine Itevi. 



Hab. Oc. Pacific, sepentr. (Mar. Beringi). 



Six specimens of this variety of the Atlantic species were taken by 

 Dall, in Bering Sea (Hagmeister Id.), in August, 1874, at low water, 

 on a gravel beach. Three were sacrificed for the anatomical examin- 

 ation. 



According to Dall, the color of the living animal was "yellowish- 

 white with brown macule." 



The length of the specimens preserved in spirits was 11-13.0 mm. 

 by a height of 4.5-5.5 mm. and a breadth of 6-10.0 mm. ; the height 

 of the rhinophoria 1.75-2.2, of the branchial leaves 1-1.2 mm, ; the 

 breadth of the foot at the fore-end about .5-8.0 mm. ; the margin of 

 the mantle projecting freely about 1.5-2.0 mm. The color of the 

 individuals on the back was yellow-white, marmorated with light 

 reddish-brown, this marbling always occupying the spaces between the 

 tubercles, which are nearly white (or light yellowir-h) ; the branchial 

 leaves of the same reddish color ; the club of the rhinophoria yellowish- 

 white ; the under side of the body yellowish-white or whitish. 



The form was elongate-oval. The head flattened, nearly semicircu- 

 lar, with the tentacular edges a little prominent. The vicinity of the 

 posterior margin of the rhinophor-holes plain, at the anterior two 

 large erect tubercles ; the club of the rhinophoria with about twenty 

 leaves, the stem rather short. The back covered all over with semi- 

 globular and short club-shaped rounded tubercles of different sizes, 

 mostly small, mixed with many larger ones 0.'I5 mm. in diameter ; the 

 larger tubercles mostly showing a spinous surface (PI. V, fig. 10)^ when 

 magnified. 



o 



1 Cf. my "Malacolog. Unters." (Semper, II, 11) Tab. LXVIII, fig. 15-16. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



The openings of the rhinophor-holes and of the branchial area (fig. 

 Sbb) surrounded by large and small tubercles which also were spread 

 over the central part of it (fig. 3). The branchial leaves ( fig. 3aa) were 

 about twenty-four or twenty-five in number, set in a transverse reni- 

 form ring ; the leaves in the front part much larger than the rest. 

 The anus as usual, scarcely projecting. The under side of the margin 

 of the mantle quite smooth. The genital openings always quite con- 

 tracted. The foot large, with a fine line along its anterior margin. 



The cerebro-visceral ganglia short-reniform ; the pedal ones not 

 much smaller, of oval form, set nearly at a right angle to the inferior 

 face of the former ; the olfactory ganglia bulbiform or ovoid. The 

 buccal ganglia rather flattened, of roundish contour, a little larger than 

 the olfactory ones ; the commissure between them very short ; the 

 gastro-oisophageal ganglia not very short-stalked, roundish, in size 

 about one-quarter of the buccal ganglia, with three large cells. The 

 three commissures very distinct, the sub-cerebral and the pedal con- 

 nected throughout most of their length ; the visceral thin, not giving 

 off a genital nerve. 



The eyes with black pigment, yellowish lens ; the nervus opticus 

 nearly as long as half the breadth of the cerebral ganglion. The 

 otocysts as large as the eyes, crowded with otokonia of the usual kind. 

 The leaves of the rhinophoria without spicules ; the axis of these organs, 

 on the other hand, were filled with such spicules, partly circularly and 

 concentrically arranged. The tubercles of the back stuffed with ordi- 

 nary spicules (fig. 10) in the usual way, the larger spicules mostly very 

 prominent on the surface 



The oral tube as usual. The bulbus pharyngeus of the usual form, 

 about 2.0 mm. long ; the lip-disk with a rather thick yellowish cuticula, 

 and inwards with the same belt of (about ten to fifteen) rows of small 

 denticles as in the L. hystricina (cf. below) ; the sheath of the radula 

 somewhat bent upwards, freely projecting behind the bulbus for as 

 great a length as that of the bulbus itself. The tongue (in the three 

 individuals) with ten or eleven series of plates, in the sheath ten or 

 eleven developed and tliree younger rows ; the total number of rows being 

 thus twenty four or twenty-five. The plates light j^ellowish in their 

 thicker parts, otherwise nearly colorless. The length of the median 

 plates reaching about 0.12 mm., the height of the external ones 

 0.10 mm. The median (fig. 7a) and exterior plates (fig. Ih) quite as 

 usual ; the large ones of the usual forms (fig. Ih), sometimes, especially 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



the foremost, with rather obtuse point (fig. 9). The buccal crop (fig. 

 4, 5) as large as the bulbus, of quite the usual form, rather petiolate.' 

 The salivary glands forming (on each side) a large, thick, whitish 

 mass between the bulbus and the central nervous system (with the 

 glanduloe sanguineje). 



The oesophagus rather wide. The stomach and the intestine as 

 usual. The liver as usual, much flattened on the right anterior half 



The heart rather large. The gland, sanguineae large, whitish, cover- 

 ing the upper side of the central nervous system, the foremost part in one 

 individual very narrow. The renal syrinx about 1.0 mm. long, with 

 strong longitudinal folds, its clothing as usual. 



The anterior genital mass 4-4.5 mm. long by a breadth of 1.25-1.5 

 and a height of 3-3.3 mm., yellow-white, plano-convex ; the anterior, 

 and partly the superior portion formed by the coils of the whitish sper- 

 matoduct ; in one individual one coil embraced the sheath of the radula. 

 The first part of the spermatoduct strong, when unrolled about 25.0 mm. 

 long ; the succeeding part of the length of 4-5.0 mm., thinner ; the 

 rest about 7.0 mm. in length, stronger, nearly as in the first part. In 

 the beginning of this last part the true spermatic duct was rolled up in 

 tight coils, the remaining part of its length was nearly straight. The 

 penis about 1.5 mm. long, with the usual glans in the interior. The 

 spermatotheca (fig. 6a) spherical, its chief duct nearly twice as long as 

 the bag, the vagina short (fig. 6e). The spermatocysta appeared 

 pyriform (fig. Qd) 



In color this form seems to differ from the typical one, as that is 

 represented by Alder and Hancock (Monogr., Part vi, 1854, fam. 3, 

 li. 9); in the anatomical relations no specific differences could be 

 detected. 



A specimen of another variety was obtained by Dall, on a gravel 

 beach, at low water, in June, 1874, at Port Etches (Prince William 

 Sound . According to Dall, the mantle was of "brown " color. 



The specimen had a length of 13.0 mm,, by a breadth of 8.0 mm., 

 and a height of 5.0 mm. ; the height of the leaves of the gill was 

 about 1.0 mm. The color of the back was brownish and yellowish; 

 that of the gill, as well as of the rhinophoria, yellowish. The number 

 of leaves of the gill was about thirty. 



The bulbus pharyngeus about 1.75 mm. long, by a height of 1.5 mm. ; 

 the sheath of the radula nearly as long as the bulbus ; the buccal crop 



^ In one specimen the form of this organ was entirely as figured iu my 

 Malacolog. Untersuch. (Semper, Reisen). Tab. LXV, fig. 2. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



a little larger than the bulbus. The radula brownish-yellow, with 

 nine rows of teeth, further back fifteen developed and two younger 

 rows, the total number being twenty-six. The teeth quite as above, 

 dark, horn-colored in their thicker parts ; the median ones reaching a 

 height of 0.16 mm. The salivary glands as above-mentioned. 



The biliary sac uncommonly small. The black contents of the 

 rectum consisting of undeterminable animal matter, mixed with larger 

 and smaller pieces of small Crustacea. The liver much flattened on 

 the riglit anterior half. 



The anterior genital mass large, about 7.0 mm. long, 5.0 mm. high, 

 and 3.0 mm. thick. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct whitish, 

 forming a long ansa, about 5.0 mm. long. The spermatoduct shorter 

 than in the other form, otherwise, with the penis, as in that form. 

 The spermatotheca yellowish, short, sac-shaped, of a largest diameter 

 of 3.0 mm. ; the spermatocysts about 0.3 mm. long, pyriform. The 

 mucous gland chalk-white and brownish-gray. 



Of another variety, Dall, in August, 1872, obtained six specimens, 

 in Sanborn Harbor (Shumagin Ids.), on stony bottom, at low water. 



According to Dall, the color of the back of the living animal is 

 " red-brown, with whitish papilla3." The color of the backs of 

 the specimens preserved in spirits was rather uniformly, dirty brown- 

 yellowish, commonly much lighter on the middle, the papilliB whitish ; 

 the gill and the rhinophoria of the color of the back ; the under side 

 of the whole body yellowish ; more whitish on the mantle. The 

 length of the animals varied from 18.0 to 25.0 mm., by a breadth of 

 11.0 to 16.0 mm., and a height of 8.0 to 12 mm. ; the breadth of 

 the foot '1.5 to 12.0 mm. ; the height of the rhinophoria reaching 3.0 

 mm., that of the gill 2.0 mm. The form as usual. The horseshoe 

 shape of the gill very pronounced, the number of leaves, twenty-eight 

 to thirty. The gill was surrounded by higher papillae, which, in the 

 largest specimen, reached the height of about 2.5 mm. ; the space 

 inclosed by the gill closely set with similar papillas, the largest (as 

 large as the above mentioned) in the periphery. The gill can be so 

 deeply drawn back in its groove, that these external and internal 

 papillai shut over and quite conceal it ; the papilla? of the centre 

 smaller ; a crest or some few papilhe in the median line go from the 

 anus backwards, between the incurved ends of the gill. The anus 

 small, very slightly prominent ; the renal pore on the right side. The 

 openings of the rhinophor-holes as usual, before them the two usual 

 papilUc, behind them a bare space. The papilla? of the back quite as 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



in the previously examined form, the largest (in the largest specimen) 

 reaching the height and the diameter of about 1.5 mm., those in the 

 neighborhood of the gill somewhat larger. 



Two smaller individuals were dissected, the larger being harder than 

 these and not so suitable for that purpose. The peritoneum w^as 

 colorless. 



The central nervous system just as in the former specimens, but the 

 buccal ganglia smaller than the olfactoiy, and the gastro-oesophageal 

 short-stalked. 



The eyes as above. The otocysts, under the glass, very distinct as 

 chalk-white points on the hinder and outermost part of the cerebral 

 ganglia. The leaves of the rhinophoria without spicula. The skin 

 and the papillae of the back as above or still more crowded with very 

 hard spicula. 



The oral tube large, (in both individuals) about 2.5 mm. long. The 

 bulbus pliaryngeus of the usual form, (in both individuals) about 3.0 

 long, by a breadth of 1.8 mm , and the height nearly the same; the 

 sheath of the radula projecting straight backwards 2.0 mm. The 

 buccal crop, lying to the left side of the bulbus, somewhat compressed, 

 of about 3.0 mm. largest diameter, the stalk nearly half as long as 

 the largest diameter of the crop. The tongue with ten rows of teeth, 

 further backwards also eleven or twelve developed and three younger 

 rows, the total number thus being twenty-four or twenty-five. They 

 were entirely as in the form first examined. 



The salivary glands, the pyloric part of the intestine, with its biliary 

 sac, and the liver as usual. The sanguineous gland whitish, much 

 flattened, covering the whole upper side of the bulbus pharyngeus and 

 the central nervous system ; a flattened cavity in its interior. The 

 hermaphroditic gland, through its more reddish color, contrasting with 

 the grayish color of the liver. 



The anterior genital mass 11.0 to 12.0 mm. long, by a height reach- 

 ing V.O to 8.0 mm., and a breadth of 4.0 to 4.5 mm. The ampulla of 

 the hermaphroditic duct lying transversely on the lowest and most 

 anterior part of the back of the mucous gland, rather straight or 

 forming nearly a circle, about 5.0 to T.O mm. long, whitish. The 

 spermatoduct making many coils on and before the anterior part of 

 the mucous gland; the first part about 35.0 to 45.0 mm. long, the 

 second nearly 25.0 mm. long ; the penis about 1.5 to 2.0 mm., pro- 

 jecting freely from the vestibulum, conical ; the glans seemed rather 

 short. The spermatotheca of about 3.0 mm. diameter, whitish. The 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCK8 OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



spermatocysta (fig. 66) quite imbedded in and concealed by the mucous 

 gland, only a part of its chief duct free on the surface of this last ; 

 the spermatocysta scarcely shorter than the spermatotheca, pear-sluiped, 

 incurved ; the duct to the mucous gland (fig. Qd) passing from the end 

 of the bag, the other strong, longer (tig. (^c^, opening in the duct of 

 the spermatotheca, where it begins to be wider (vagina) ; the vagina 

 (fig. Ge) rather wide, but short. The mucous gland whitish, yellowish 

 and dirty yellow. ^ 



2. L. varians, Bgh. PI. XI, fig. 1.3, 14; PI. XIII, fig. 1. 



L. varians, B. R. Bergh, Malacol. Unters. 1. c, 1878, p. 613, 014. 



Color cu?rulescens vel albescens vel flavescens. 



Dentes laterales margine interno denticulati fere usque ad apicem, 



Hab. Oc. Pacif. (Ins. Kyska). 



Of this species six specimens were taken by Dall, in July, 1873, at 

 Kyska Island, on sandy ground, at a depth of 9-14 fathoms. Four 

 specimens were sacrificed to the anatomical examination. 



According to Dall the color of the living animal is " bluish." The 

 animals preserved in spirits were of a uniform whitish color, so too 

 the rhinophoria and the branchia. Their length was 9-12.0 mm. by 

 a breadth of 5.3-7.0 and a height of 3-4.5 mm. ; the breadth of the 

 foremost part of the foot 3.6-5.0 mm. The height of the rhinophoria 

 reached about 2.2 mm., of the branchial leaves 1.0 mm. 



T he form almost entirely as in the typical form and as in the L. 

 hystricina. 'i he head as in the last species ; also the openings of the 

 rhinophor-holes, with their (mostly three) larger tubercles, set with 

 equal spaces ; the club of the rhinophoria Vf-ith about twelve to fifteen 

 rather thick leaves. The tubercles of the back as in the L. hystri- 

 cina ; the number of larger ones much exceeding that of the smaller, 

 which are scattered between them. The branchial disk as in the L. 

 hystricina, also the branchial leaves, whose number did not surpass 

 twelve to twenty. The foot as usual. 



The central nervous system (fig. 1) nearly as in the L. hystricina. 

 The cerebro-visceral ganglia of roundish or oval form, as also the 

 pedal ones which were not much smaller than the former. The com- 



1 In my "Malacolog. Unters." (Semper, Philipp. II, ii, Ileft xiv, 1878, 

 p. 60G-G13 ; Tab. Ixiv, tig. 13, 14-1'> ; Tab. Ixv, fig. 1-.5, G-13) I have given 

 some anatomical remarks on the typical L. bilaviellata and ou the Green- 

 landic variety {D. liturata. Beck). 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



missura pedalia nearly as long as the diameter of the pedal ganglia ; 

 the subcerebral lying rather close up to the pedal ; the visceral quite 

 free, much thinner. A very short-stalked smaller ganglion (fig. Ic) 

 connected with the under side of the right visceral ganglion, gives off 

 a nerve that swells into a new ganglion, which sends out three nerves 

 (N. genitalis). The olfactory ganglia short-stalked, spindle-shaped. 

 The buccal (fig. Id and the gastro-oesophageal ganglia (fig. le), nearly 

 as in the L. hystricina ; the commissure between the first extremely 

 short, the gastro-oesophageal somewhat smaller. 



The nervi optici one to one and a-half times as long as the diameter 

 of the cerebral ganglia ; the eyes with black pigment, yellowish lens. 

 The otocysts (fig. 1) lying rather backwards, a little smaller than the 

 eyes ; the otokonia of the usual form, in number about fifty. The 

 leaves of the rhinophoria without spicula. In the skin were almost 

 no spicula and no larger or calcified ones on the surface of the rigid 

 papillag of the back, which thus were rather smooth. In the intersti- 

 tial connective tissue small calcified cells, but no larger spicula. 



The mouth-tube as in the L. hystricina. The bulbus pharyngeus 

 as in that species, but the sheath of the radula shorter and less 

 prominent, bent upwards, sideways or down and forwards. On the 

 intei'ior part of the nearly colorless labial disk, the usual belt of 

 (about twelve to fifteen) rows of small denticles. The tongue strong, 

 rather long, with curved superior and nearly straight inferior margin. 

 In the mature radula twelve to fourteen or sixteen rows of teeth, 

 further backwards fifteen or sixteen to eighteen rows of developed, 

 and three of partly developed teeth ; the total number of rows thus 

 thirty, thirty-one or thirty-five to thirty-seven. The median plates 

 (fig. 14) of nearly the usual form, in the under side rather excavated, 

 with thickened margins. The large lateral plates (fig. 13) formed 

 nearly as in the L. hystricina, but larger, reaching a height of 0.12 

 mm. ; the denticulation of the interior margin of the hook stronger, 

 with more (about twenty) denticles and reaching farther out towards 

 the end of the hook. The exterior plates nearly of the same form as 

 in the last species, reaching to the height of about 6 mm. 



The sucking-crop quite as in the former species. 



The salivary glands much smaller than in the former species, re- 

 duced to a large, scarcely lobed, whitish mass on each side of the 

 root of the ojsophagus. 



The oesophagus somewhat spindle-shaped. The stomach included 

 in the liver. The intestine issuing from the liver behind its middle- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES Or PHILADELPHIA. 69 



The liver of grayish-white color, of the length of about 9.5 mm. by 

 a breadth of 4 and a height of about 3.75 mm. ; the hinder end 

 rounded, the fore-end rather truncated, the anterior one-third on the 

 upper and right side flattened by the anterior genital mass. 



The heart and the renal syrinx as usual ; the median renal cham- 

 ber continued to the fore-end of the liver. The sanguineous glands 

 connected on the upper side of the central nervous system to a flat- 

 tened whitish mass. 



The glandula hermaphrodisiaca clothing the upper side of the liver, 

 and scarcely distinct from it in color ; in its lobules were large oijgene 

 cells. The anterior genital mass compressed, plano-convex; 4.0 mm. 

 long, by a height of about 3.3 and a breadth of 1.2 mm. The albumi- 

 nous gland on the left side of the mass and forwards, yellowish, very 

 finely gyrated on the surface ; the mucous gland whitish, pellucid. 

 The spermatoduct as well as the (3.0 mm. long) penis as in the L. 

 echinata. The spermatotheca rather small, spherical. 



L. varians, var. 



To this same species belonged certainly five specimens of a Lam- 

 ellidoris, which were taken by Dall in July, 18'73, at Unalashka 

 Island (Aleutians), at the depth of sixty fathoms on mud and stones. 

 Nevertheless, the color of these animals in the living state was, accord- 

 ing to Dall, " yellowish-white." 



The size and the particular measures accorded with those of the 

 more typical individuals, referred to above. 



The central nervous system as just mentioned, so even the eyes and 

 the otocysts. The bulbus pharyngeus of the usual form ; on the tongue 

 eleven rows of teeth, farther backwards twenty-six developed and four 

 not quite developed rows, the total number thus forty-one. The plates 

 quite as formerly described. The sucking-crop quite as in the typical 

 form, also the salivary glands. The whitish sanguineous gland entirely 

 covering the central nervous system. The penis as usual. 



Two specimens of another variety of this form were gotten by Dall, 

 In July, 1873, at Kyska Island, on sandy bottom, and at a depth of 

 nine to fourteen fathoms. In a living state they were, according to 

 Dall, of yellowish color. 



The length of the animals preserved in spirits was 8.5 to 9.0 mm., 

 by a breadth of 6.0 ram., and a height of about 3.5 mm. The color 

 was uniformly whitish or yellowish-white. One individual was dis- 

 sected. 




TO PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The central nervous system was as above mentioned, and also the 

 eyes (their nervi optici rather long), and the otocysts (the number of 

 the otokonia about one hundred). The bulbus pharyngeus as usual ; 

 on the tongue sixteen rows of teeth, farther backwards eighteen rows 

 of developed and four of younger teeth ; the total number of rows, 

 thirty-eight. The plates as above ; the length of the median plates 

 005 to 058 mm. ; the height of the anterior large lateral plates 

 about 0.14 mm., of the posterior about 0.17 mm. ; the number of den- 

 ticles on these plates mostly fifteen to twenty. The vesica fellea wa? 

 at the left side of the pylorus. 



S. L. hystricina, Bergh. 



L. hystricina, Bcrgh, Mai. Untersuch., 1. c, 1878, p. 614, Tab. Ixviii. 

 fig. 17-23. 



Color cocrulescens. 



Denies laterales margine interno denticulati sed non usque ad 

 apicem. 



Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum (insula Kyska). 



One specimen of this species was found by Dall, at Kyska Island 

 (Aleutians), on rocky bottom, at a depth of ten fathoms, in June. 

 1873. According to Dall, the color of the living animal is bluish. 



The specimen preserved in spirits was 9.5 mm. in length, reached 

 a breadth of G mm., and a height of the true body (without the 

 papilUe) of .3.5 mm. ; the breadth of the foremost part of the foot 

 was 5.3 mm., the height of the rhinophoria was about 2.1 mm., of the 

 branchia about 1.2 mm., of the dorsal papilla^ 1.2 mm. The color 

 was uniformly whitish. 



The form was oval, the back not very convex. The head rather 

 large, formed like a velum, that is radiately folded, and has its side 

 parts connected with the ends of the anterior margin of the foot ; in 

 the middle of the hinder part of the under side of the velum is a trans- 

 verse slit, in which the small mouth-pore opens. The opening of the 

 rhinophor-holes was nearly round, with the margin rather thin, here 

 were three papilla? of the same kind as on the back ; the rhinophoria 

 stout, the club with about twenty leaves. The back covered all over 

 with mostly stout, club-shaped papilhv, apparently set without order, 

 and extending nearly out to the very margin of the mantle, which is 

 thin and has on the upper side smaller, cylindrical or club-shaped 

 papilhe. The papilht all firmly adherent to the skin, the spicules shin- 

 ing through all over on the back and in the papillae. The branchial 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Tl 



disk rather large, at the margin set with about fourteen papillae, irregu- 

 larly alternating in size. The branchia composed of twelve small 

 leaves of the usual kind. The centre of the disk and the anus as 

 usual. The foot somewhat shorter and narrower than the back, 

 broader in front, with the anterior margin rather straight, rounded 

 posteriorly. 



The cerebro-visceral ganglia showed the visceral part a little larger 

 than the cerebral, the pedal somewhat smaller than the visceral; the 

 four commissures as usual; the offshoot of the nerva genitalis could 

 not be determined. The buccal ganglia rounded, connected through a 

 short commissure ; the gastro-oesophageal having about one-quarter of 

 the size of the latter. 



The eyes with very rich black pigment ; the nervus opticus not short. 

 The otocysts as large as the eyes, filled with otokonia of the usual 

 kind. In the thin leaves of the rhinophoria no spicula. In the skin 

 of the back and in the dorsal papillas an enormous amount of irregular 

 or rounded particles, often coalescing together in larger, irregular 

 lumps, which very often were crowded together in irregular heaps ; in 

 the papillse also were long, strong and very much calcified spicula, 

 often of uneven surface, whose points, as usual, often projected on the 

 surface of the papillie. In the interstitial connective tissue, including 

 the ends of the different ducts of the genital organs (vagina, mucous 

 gland duct), masses of large and long (as much as 0.9 mm,), calcified 

 spicula. 



The mouth-tube was about 1.0 mm. long, rather wide, with strong, 

 longitudinal folds. The bulbus pharyngeus of usual, irregular form, 

 the bulbus proper of the length of about 1.75 mm. ; the sheath of the 

 radula, nearly as long as the bulbus, curved downwards. The labial 

 disk oval, at the inner margin of darker color, and there showing 

 (fig. 17) a narrow belt of small, yellowish denticles, of a height of 

 0.007 to 0.015 mm. ;' this belt seems continued a short space up in 

 the mouth that is otherwise, like the rest of the buccal cavity, clothed 

 with a rather thick, yellowish cuticula. Ihe tongue rather long and 

 narrow, in the groove on its back sixteen rows of teeth, in the sheath 

 eighteen developed and six undeveloped rows, the total number conse- 

 quently forty. The color of the true lateral teeth yellowish, the others 

 nearly colorless ; the height of the outer pseudo-plates about 0.075 mm. 

 1 he median pseudo-plates elongate, narrow (fig. 21) ; the true (lateral) 



' In the outer mouth was found a little Caprella, of the length of 3.0 mm. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



teeth strong, finely denticulated (with six to eight denticles) on the 

 inner side of the hook, and with a strong, rounded prominence at 

 the base of this (fig. 18a, 19, 20) ; the external pseudo-plates with 

 the usual curved points (fig. 186). Irregularities in the form of the 

 last were often observed (fig. 23).^ 



The crop entirely as in the typical species, the largest diameter 

 1.3 mm. / 



In the stomach indeterminable animal matter and a little, undeter- 

 minable worm, of the length of 2.0 mm. 



The hermaphroditic gland as usual ; the lobules filled with sperma. 

 The anterior genital mass rather large, measuring in length 4.5 mm., 

 in height 2.5 mm., and in breadth 2.3 mm. ; the left side flat or a little 

 excavated, the right rather convex. The mucous gland, as well as 

 the albuminous gland, white and yellowish-white. The spermatoduct 

 not very long, but rather strong, continued in the very strong penis, 

 that (retracted ) forms the fore-end of the whole mass. The penis has 

 a length of about 3.5 mm., by a diameter of 1.3 mm. ; the inferior 

 end rather constricted ; the superior three-quarters of the organ com- 

 pact, perforated through the axis by the dense coils of the spermato- 

 duct proper ; the inferior one-third hollow, including the curved and 

 pointed glans. 



2. L. muricata (MilUer). Plate IX. fig. 18; Plate XI, fig. lO-Ii. 



Doris muricata, O. F. Muller. Zool. Dan. Fas. Ill, 1789, p. 7, Tab. 



LXXXV, f. 2, 3, 4. 

 Doris muricata, Muller. Sars, (forma /5) Loveu, Ind. Moll. Scand.1846, 



p. 5. 

 Dori<i muricata, Meyer und Moebius. Fauna der Kieler Buclit, I, 1865, 



p. 73-75, Taf. Vc, fig. 1-8. 

 f Lamellidoris muricata, Muller. G. 0. Sars, Moll. reg. arct. Norv., 



1878, p. 307, Tab. Xlll, fig. 6. 



Color flavidus vel luteo-albus. 



Dentes laterales magni hamo denticu'ato sed non usque ad apicem. 



Hah. Oc. Atlanticum septentr. 



The original specimen on which Miiller founded his Doris muricata 

 does not exist, and by his incomplete description it is now completely 

 impossible with full certainty to determine what species was meant by 

 his description. In future the species described by Meyer and Moebius 



' From the presence of only one Individual, the examination of the radula 

 was extremely difficult and limited, as also that of the genital organs. 




1S80.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



and by me ought to be called by that name. To the same is without 

 doubt to be referred the second variety (/9) of the D. muricata 

 (Miiller, Sars) of Lov^n (the first being the D. Lov'ni of Alder). 



Of this form, and under that name, I have had two well conserved 

 specimens for examination, kindly sent me by Mr. Friele, of Bergen, 

 and caught in the neighborhood of that place. 



The individuals (preserved in spirits) were of light yellowish color.' 

 The length 9-10 mm. by a breadth of 5-6.0 and a height of nearly 

 8.0 mm. : the breadth of the foot reaching 3.5 ram. ; the height of the 

 rhinophoria 1.5, of the branchial leaves 1.0 mm. The form of the 

 animal as usual ; the warts of the back not large, mostly truncate, 

 clavate. The openings for the rhinophoria as usual, with two tubercles 

 before them, or one on each side; the club with about fifteen to twenty 

 leaves.- The branchial leaves about twelve to fourteen, as far as could 

 be determined ;3 the space inclosed by the gill covered with the usual 

 tubercles ; the anus presenting the ordinary features. The head rather 

 large, the side parts adhering to the foot throughout their whole length. 

 The genital groove with three openings j a foremost round, a median 

 spalt-formed, and a posterior large and round. 



Both individuals were dissected ; the peritoneum was colorless. 



In the central nervous system the cerebro-visceral ganglia appeared 

 rather short, reniform ; the pedal ones of roundish form, somewhat 

 larger than either of the former ; the commissures rather short. The 

 olfactory ganglion short-stalked, nearly spherical, situated rather 

 posteriorly on the upper side of the cerebral ganglia, and nearly as 

 large as the buccal ones. The buccal ganglia of oval outline, con- 

 nected by a short commissure ; the gastro-oesophageal nearly spherical, 

 in size about one-quarter of the former,, short-stalked: a secondary 

 ganglion lying above the last on the oesophagus. 



The eyes not short-stalked ; with rich black pigment and yellow 

 lens. The otocysts a little smaller than the eyes, filled with otokonia 

 of the common kind. In the leaves of the rhinophoria rather few but 

 large spicula of the same kind as in the skin, more or less perpendicu- 

 lar on the free margin ; the axes of the club like the stalk still more 

 richly endowed with smaller and larger spicules. Under the glass the 



' According to Loven the color is yellowish; to Meyer and Moebius white 

 or yellowish-white the rhinophoria orange-colored. 



- According to Meyer and Moebius the club of the rhinophoria has but 

 nine or ten leaves. 



' Meyer and Moebius mention eight leaves as nearly constant. 

 6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



skin between the warts, as well as the warts themselves, showed the 

 white spicules everywhere shining through ; the spicules often project- 

 ing from the surface of the warts The spicules for the greater part 

 very large, long, and reaching a diameter of at least 0.05 mm. ; they 

 were strongly calcified, mostly straight or slightly curved, the surface 

 nearly even. In the interstitial tissue were rather many spicules, but 

 (as in the rhinophoria) less calcified than in the skin. 



The mouth-tube rather wide. The bulbus pharyngeus of nearly 

 usual form, about 1.6 mm. long ; the sheath of the radula, moreover, 

 projecting backwards about 0.4 mm., bent somewhat upwards or down- 

 wards ; the lip-disk with a rather thick yellowish cuticula ; the sucking- 

 crop large, larger than the true bulbus, to which it adheres by a very 

 short petiolus. The tongue with nine rows of teeth, further back 

 twenty to thirty-two developed and three younger rows ; the total 

 number of rows, thirty-two to forty-four.^ The yellow median plates 

 (fig. 10a) about 0.05 mm. long, of the usual form. The large lateral 

 plates yellow, of about 0.12 mm. height ; the form as usual ; the hook 

 with about fifteen to sixteen fine denticles, and a strong tooth at the 

 inside of the base (fig. lObb). The external plate colorless, about 0.04 

 mm. in height, with the usual rudiment of a hook (fig. 10c, llb).^ 



The salivary glands white, rather thick, making two or three short 

 coils at the sides of the oesophagus. The oesophagus as usual. The 

 intestine emerging from the liver at about the middle of its length ; 

 the biliary sac (fig. 18) is at the pyloric part of it, situated deeply, 

 scarcely showing itself on the surface of the liver and opening (fig. 

 18a) into the stomach close to the pylorus. The liver about 6.5 mm. 

 long by a breadth of 3.0 mm. and a height of 2.0 mm., deeply excav- 

 ated in the anterior third of its right side, and of light yellow color. 

 The sanguineous gland much flattened, whitish, heart-formed, of about 

 1.5 mm. largest diameter. The renal chamber rather wide, the tube 

 on its floor strong. 



' Meyer and Moebius (1. c. p. 73) mention twenty-nine rows ; Alder and 

 Hancock thirty. 



- The representations of the external plate by Meyer and Moebius (1. e. 

 fig. 2, 6) are not natural. Alder and Hanc. (1. c, Part VII, p. ii, PI. 46, 

 supplem. text) mention two external plates in their D. muricata (as in their 

 D. diaphana) ; either the D. muricata of A. and H. must be another species, 

 or they must have fallen into error from the particular view which is some- 

 times had in certain positions of the hind ends of the large lateral teeth 

 with the external ones. " . 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



The lobes of the hermaphroditic gland without developed sexual 

 elements. The anterior genital mass about 2.5-3.0 mm. in length by 

 a height of 2.0 mm. and a breadth of 1.0-1.5 mm. The ampulla of 

 the hermaphroditic duct of yellowish color, rather thick ( — 0.75 mm. 

 diameter), making a wide curve, about 2.5 mm. long. The spermato- 

 duct long ; its first part thinner, about 9.0 mm. long, then through a 

 stricture of the length of nearly 1 mm., passing into the thicker part, 

 which in its last half increases in thickness, and, all in all, has the 

 length of about 6.0 mm. by a diameter of 0.75 mm.; the last part 

 (fig. 12c) passes into the penis', in whose cavity (fig. 12bb) the glans 

 (fig. 12«) projects as a short club, the proper seminal duct passing 

 down to the gland in nearly continual cork-screw windings, and often 

 shining through the walls of the external coat. The spermatotheca 

 whitish, nearly spherical, of about 1.3 mm. diameter, filled with sem- 

 inal matter and detritus ; the spermatocysta elongate, nearly twice as 

 long as the former, yellowish, deeply imbedded in the mucous gland, 

 filled with ripe semen ; its duct somewhat longer than the cysta. The 

 vagina short.^ The mucous gland yellowish and yellow. 



The species approaches to the L. hystricina and L. varians (of 

 the Pacific), but differs entirely in its colors; still the possibility can- 

 not be denied that further investigations may show both the Pacific 

 " species " to be merely varieties of the old Lamellidoris muricata 

 of the Atlantic. 



ADALARIA, Bergb. 



Adalaria, R Bergh. Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Philipp. II, ii). Heft 



XIV, 1878, p. xl. 

 Adalaria, R. Bergh. Gattungen nord. Doriden, 1. c. 1879, p. 360. 



Forma corporis fere ut in Lamellidoridibus. Notha^um papillula- 

 tum vel subgranulosum. Branchia (non retractilis) e foliis vix mul- 

 tis, in formam ferri equini ut plurimum dispositis formata. Caput ut 

 :n Lamellidoridibus, latum, semilunare, teutaculis vix uUis vel brevis- 

 simis lobiformibus. Aperturse rhinophoriales integral, tuberculis 

 anticis 2-3, calvitie postica. 



Discus labialis non armatus. Lingua rhachide lamellis depressis 

 instructa ; pleuris dente laterali interno hamiformi majore et serie 



' The exserted penis is figured by Meyer and Moebius (1. c. taf. fig. 4) 

 and mentioned as cylindrico-conical. 



- The upper end of the vagina seemed to present a particular diverticle. 




T6 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



dentium externorum sat applanatorum pneditis. Ingluvies buccalis 

 bulbo pharyngeo petiolo connata. 



Penis glande parva inermi. Vagina brevis. 



« 



The genus has been established by the author (1878) to receive 

 the D. proxima and its allies. The Adalarice externally approach 

 nearest to the Lamellidorides ; their branchial leaves are also dis- 

 posed mostly in horseshoe form, but fewer in number. The head and 

 the' tentacles are more as in the Aeanthodorides. The back is nearly 

 as in the Lamellidorides, but the granules are sometimes more pointed. 

 The opening for the rhinophoria as in the Lamellidorides, with plain 

 margin ; before them two to three tubercles, behind them the glabella. 

 The lip-disk only covered by a strong cuticula. The armature of the 

 tongue approaching to that of the Acanthodorides. The rhachis of the 

 tongue carries depressed small yellow plates ; at each side of these a 

 large hook-formed yellow plate, and further outwards a series of 

 smaller, nearly colorless plates, of which the inner ones are more 

 compressed, the rest depressed. The sucking-crop as in the Lamelli- 

 dorides, through a petiolus fixed to the bulbus. The salivary glands 

 as in the Lamellidorides. The oesophagus wider at its root. The 

 penis unarmed ; the vagina short. 



The Adalarice are Lamellidorides with a tongue resembling that of 

 the Acanthodorides ; they form a sort of connecting link between these 

 two groups. 



Of the typical species, the spawn is known (through Alder and 

 Hancock) and some few notices have been published about their 

 biology (through Meyer and Moebius) ; Sars mentions' the swimming 

 of Ad. Loveni. 



The genus seems to belong to the northern oceans ; only five species 

 .seem hitherto known. 



1. Ad. proxima (A. et H.). Oc. Atlanticus sept. 

 'Z. Ad. pacifica, Bgh., n. sp. Oc. Pacif. 

 ;J. Ad. virescens, Bgh., n. sp. Oc. Pacif. 



4. Ad. albopapi'losa (Dall). Oc. Pacif. 



5. Ad. Loveni (A. et H.). Oc. Atlant. sept. 



1. Adalaria proxima (Alder et Hancock;. PI. IX, fig. 12-15. 



Doris proxima, A. et H. Monogr. Part VI, 1854. Fam, 1, PI . 9, fig.«». 



10-1 G ; Part VII, 1855. PI. 46, suppl. f. 8. 

 Doris proxima, Meyer u. Moebius, Fauna der Kieler Bucht, I, 1865. 



P. 69-71 ; taf. V b, fig. 1-8. 



' Sars, Bidr. til Soedyrenes. Naturhist. 1829, p, 17. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7" 



Color flavus vel e rubro flavus. 



Dentes laterales (magni) hamo edentulo ; externi numero 10. 



Hab. Oc. Atlant. septentr. 



Of this form I have had for examination three specimens of nearly 

 equal size, kindly sent me by Prof. Moebius in Kiel, and caught in 

 the neighborhood of that town. 



The individuals wpre of a uniform whitish color, the liver shining 

 reddish-gray through the foot. Alder and Hancock have already re- 

 marked this shining through of the liver. The length was 7-0-8.0 mm., 

 by a breadth of 5.0-5.5, and a height of about 3.5 mm- ; the height of 

 the rhinophoria about 1.25, of the branchial leaves 0.75 mm. The 

 form nearly as in the Ad. pacijica, also the tubercles (fig. 12) of the 

 back and the surroundings of the rhinophor-holes ; the branchial 

 leaves nine to ten in number. The number of branchial leaves ac- 

 cording to Alder and Hancock is eleven, according to Meyer and 

 Moebius eight or nine. The rhinophoria with about fifteen to twenty 

 leaves. The lateral parts of the head nearly connate with the foot. 

 and only slight traces of true pointed tentacles. The foot as in the 

 next species. 



The three individuals were anatomically examined. The peritoneum 

 colorless. 



The central nervous system as in the Ad. pacifica, but less de- 

 pressed. The eyes and otocysts as in that species ; the last with 

 about 200 otokonia of very varying diameter, reaching about 0.02 

 mm. The spicula of the skin as described by English and German 

 authors ; a rather large quantity spread in the skin of the head. 



The bulbus pharyngeus (with the crop) of the length of about 1.5 

 mm., by a height of 1.5 and a breadth of 0.8 mm. ; the crop making 

 about half of the bulbus; the lip-disk with strong yellowish cuti- 

 cula ; the sheath of the radula a little prominent, bent more or less 

 upwards. The tongue narrow and pointed, with seven to nine rows 

 of teeth, further backwards thirty or thirty-one rows of developed and 

 three of younger teeth ; the total number thus amounts to forty or 

 forty-three.' 



The teeth as in the Ad. pacifica. The large lateral yellowish, the 

 rest nearly colorless. The length of the median teeth about 0.025 to 

 0.03 mm. '1 he large lateral (fig, 1366, 14) showed the prominence 



' Alder and Hancock notice forty-one, Meyer and Moebius tbirty-nine 

 rows of plates. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



ut the inside of the root of the hook quite as in the Ad. pacifica. 

 The external teeth (fig. 15) only nine or ten in number,^ fewer than 

 in that species, always absent on more than half the tongue. 



The salivary glands as in the next species, also the oesophagus, the 

 stomach and the intestine. The liver also of nearly the same form, 

 the inferior part of the posterior end continued as a little cone ; the 

 surface (especially of the back part) yellowish-white ; the substance 

 yellow. The vesica fellea in its usual place, small. The heart as 

 usual, also the sanguineous gland. The renal syrinx and the urinary 

 chamber as usual. 



The anterior genital mass rather compressed, of angular-roundish 

 outline, of about 1.15 mm. largest diameter. The spermatoduct seemed 

 shorter than in the next species, especially the second part ; the penis 

 short. The spermatotheca pyriform ; the spermatocysta of more oval 

 form, having only about one-quarter of the size of the former, and fiUed 

 with sperma. The mucous gland whitish and yellowish. 



2. Adalaria paciflca, Bergh, n. sp., PI. IX, fig. 17 j PI. X, fig. 1-3; PI. XI, fig. 1&. 



Color lutescens. 



Denies laterales (magni) hamo edentulo ; externi numero 15. 



Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum (Unalashka). 



Of this species Dall caught three specimens, in September, 1874, at 

 Unalashka, on a bottom of mud and shells. 



According to Dall, the color of the living animal is " yellowish ; '* 

 the specimens preserved in spirits were of a uniform yellowish color. 

 The length of the two larger specimens about 12.0 to 14.0 mm., by a 

 breadth of 8.0 to 9.0 mm , and a height reaching 4.5 to 5.0 mm. -, 

 the breadth of the foot 6.0 mm., the height of the rhinophoria about 

 1.5 mm., of the branchial leaves 1.2 mm. 



The form as in the Ad. proxivia, a little broader anteriorly. The 

 back covered all over with a mass of rather stout, subglobose and sub- 

 petiolate tubercles quite as in the typical species, mixed with much 

 fewer smaller ones. The larger ones, under magnification, showing 

 the perpendicular spicula shining through, while other spicula were 

 detected irregularly scattered in the intervals between the tubercles. 

 The rhinophor-holes nearly without projecting margin ; the adjoining 

 part of the back, behind, smooth ; immediately before the holes, on 



* The number of external plates is, according to Alder and Hancock, 

 ten, to Meyer and Moebius, eight or nine. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUI A. 19 



the contrary, two or three larger tubercles ; the club of the rhinophoria 

 with about thirty leaves. The branchial area surrounded by larger 

 tubercles. The branchial leaves in number, eleven or twelve ; imme- 

 diately before the two hindermost was the slightly prominent anus, and 

 at its right Bide the renal pore ; in the space between the anus and 

 the branchial leaves, three or four larger and two or three smaller 

 tubercles. The head large ; the tentacles short, pointed. The foot 

 broad, rounded behind, a little broader in front ; the furrow on the 

 anterior margin very indistinct. The three individuals were all dis- 

 sected. The peritoneum was colorless. 



The central nervous system rather flattened ; the cerebral ganglia 

 larger than the visceral, which were lying at their outer margin and 

 were a little larger than the pedal ones ; the proximal olfactory ganglia 

 bulbiform, less large than the buccal ones, which were of short, oval 

 form, connected through a very short commissure ; the gastro-oesopha- 

 geal ganglia short-stalked, rounded, nearly half as large as the former, 

 with a very large cell. The subcerebral and the pedal commissures 

 conne^^ted, the visceral free. 



The eyes with coal-black pigment, yellow lens ; the nervus opticus 

 in one individual with black pigment. The otocysts, under a mag- 

 nifier, very distinct as chalk-white points at the hinder margin of the 

 cerebral ganglia, nearly as large as the eyes, filled with ordinary oto- 

 konia. In the leaves of the rhinophoria scanty, scattered spicules, 

 perpendicular on the free margin, not much more calcified than in the 

 skin ; in the stalk of the organ the spicules larger and less scanty. 

 The skin, especially its tubercles, with many long spicules and calcified 

 cells and groups of such cells ; the form of the spicules different from 

 that of the Doris proxima, as figured by Alder and Hancock (Monogr., 

 Part vi, fam. 1, PL 9, fig. 15), and by Meyer and Moebius (1. c, figs. 

 8, 9), much less calcified, more straight and of more uniform shape. 

 In the interstitial connective tissue of the chief ducts of the anterior 

 genital mass were scattered large spicules. 



The mouth-tube wide, about 1.3 mm. long. The bulbus pharyngeus 

 of rather compressed form, about 2.0 mm. long; the sheath of the 

 radula strongly projecting from the hinder end, nearly as long as 

 the bulbus, more or less curved upwards ; the lip-disk oval, with a 

 very strong yellowish cuticula. The tongue with ten or eleven rows 

 of plates, further back twenty-nine to thirty-four rows of developed 

 and three of younger plates ; the total number thus forty-two, forty- 

 three, forty -seven. The median plate (PI. IX, fig. ITa ; PI- X, fig. 1) 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



yellowi'gh, of a length of about 0.045 mm., with a median furrow 

 along the upper side and with thickened margins. The large laterals 

 horn-yellow in color, reaching the height of about 0.1 mm. (PI. IX, 

 fig. lib; PL X, fig. 2aa), hook-shaped, with a strong, roimded prom- 

 inence at the inside of the root of the hook (fig. 17). On each side 

 (PI. X, fig. 2b, c) of the two large plates (in two individuals) con- 

 stantly fifteen smaller, nearly colorless plates of a length of about 

 0.06 mm. These plates were all somewhat depressed ; the five inner 

 ones smaller, somewhat compressed ( fig. 2, 3a, 15 ) ; the others (fig. 2, 3) 

 broader, with the upper edge broad and irregularly toothed ; the outer- 

 most (fig. 2c) a little smaller than the adjoining plates. The bases in 

 each of the^e (fifteen) plates large, forming nearly half, or at least 

 making more than a third of the size of the whole plate.' The crop 

 of the bulbus of the usual form, as large or a little larger than the bulbus 

 itself; with a very short stalk with strong longitudinal musculature, 

 its aperture opening immediately behind the lip-disk. 



The salivary glands large, white, very elongate, in their foremost 

 part broader, and with several coils filling the space left between the 

 crop, the bulbus and the cesophagus. 



The oesophagus long. The stomach small, enclosed in the liver ; 

 the intestine rather short, forming its knee behind the fore-end of the 

 liver. The large posterior visceral mass about 9.0 mm. long by a 

 breadth of 4.3 and a height of 3.5 mm. ; the posterior end somewhat 

 pointed, though rounded ; the fore-end broader, perpendicular, somewhat 

 flattened on the right side ; the color of the surface (hermaphroditic 

 gland) ash-gray, the interior (the liver) brown or black brown, or 

 quite yellow. 



The heart as usual. The sanguineous gland irregularly reniform, 

 situated somewhat more towards the left side, rather thick, whitish, 

 covering the central nervous system and a large part of the bulbus 

 pharyngeus from above. The renal syrinx as usual. 



The hermaphroditic gland without developed sexual elements. The 

 anterior genital mass proper rather small, compressed, of about 2.5 mm. 

 largest diameter, but the loop of the spermatoduct (and the penis) 

 nearly as large as the rest of the mass. The spermatoduct long, 

 in its first part white, rather strong ; nearly as long as the second in 

 which it passes through a stricture ; this last part is thicker, cylindrical, 

 elongated, about 5.0 n;m. long, passing without exact limits into the 



' In both individuals the three to five foremost rows were without the 

 smaller plates, and the following two or three very incomplete in this respect. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



short penis. The spermatotheca pyriform, about 1.3 mm. long; the 

 ppermatocysta not having one-fourth of the size of the last ; botli 

 empty. The mucous gland whitish and yellow-whitish. 



This seems even externally to differ somewhat from the typical form, 

 of which it nevertheless may prove to be but a variety. Neither Alder 

 and Hancock, nor Meyer and Moebius saw more than eight to (nine) 

 ten external plates on the tongue of Ad. proxima, while this Pacific 

 form always presented fifteen. 



3. Adalaria viresoeas, Bgh., n. sp. Plate X, ti^. \, 5. 



Color virescens. 



Dentes laterales (magni) hamo edentulo ; externi numero 15. 



Hab. Oc. Pacific, septentr. Unalashka. 



Of this species Dall found four specimens at Unalashku, on gravel, 

 in a depth of nine to fifteen fathoms, in September, 1874. 



According to Dall the color of the living animal was " greenish," 

 and the animals preserved in spirits showed remains of the same color 

 as a uniform grayish green. The length of these was 11.5-12.0 mm., 

 by a breadth of 8.0 mm. and a height of 5.0 mm, ; the height of the 

 rhinophoria about 2.0, of the branchial leaves about 1.0 mm. 



The form, as well as the rhinophor-openings, were quite as usual ; 

 the club of the rhinophoria with about thirty-five leaves. The gill not 

 large, with nine to twelve leaves ; the space within the gill as usual, 

 also the arms and the renal pore. The back covered with granula- 

 tions and short clubs. The head, with the tentaculaj and the genital 

 opening as usual. 



Three individuals were dissected ; the peritoneum was colorless. 



The central nervous system showed the cerebral ganglia larger than 

 the visceral, which were lying on the outside of and behind the former, 

 very distinct from them ; the pedal ones being intermediate in size 

 between the cerebral and the visceral ganglia. On the exterior part of 

 each cerebral ganglion a little short-stalked ganglion (gang, opticum?) 

 was easily visible under a hand magnifier. The (proximal) olfac- 

 tory ganglia bulbiform, short-stalked, a little larger than the buccal 

 ganglia, which were short-oval, connected through a very short com- 

 missure ; the gastro-ojsophageal being about one-fourth to one-fifth of 

 the size of the former. In the neighborhood of the penis a little oval 

 ganglion (g. penis) having a largest diameter of about 0.25 mm. 

 (fig. 5), containing only rather small cells. 




82 PROCEEDINGS 0¥ THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The eyes with black pigment ; the otocysts with not very many and 

 not much calcified otokonia. No distal olfactory ganglion, as far as 

 could be seen ; no spicula in the leaves of the rhinophoria. The skin 

 as in other species ; the spicula projecting on the surface of the granu- 

 lations of the back. 



The bulbus pharyngeus about 1-1.5 mm. in length ; the sheath ot 

 the radula projecting 0.75-1.0 mm., bent upwards; the sucking-crop a 

 little larger than the bulbus itself, short-stalked ; the lip-disk as usual. 

 The tongue compressed, rather prominent, with six, eight, and nine 

 rows of teeth, also further back twenty-four, thirty-two and thirty-three 

 developed and three younger rows ; the total number of rows thus 

 being thirty-five, forty-one, forty-five. The median plates, the large 

 lateral and the (fifteen) external ones scarcely different from those of 

 the last species. 



The salivary glands rather strong, with two or three short coils fill- 

 ing the space at the sides of the oesophagus (fig. 4), white. The 

 (esophagus (fig. 4a) wide in its upper part, the rest narrow. The an- 

 teriorly proceeding part of the intestine 2.0 mm. long, the other retro- 

 ceding part <^.0 mm. long ; no biliary sac could be found either at the 

 pylorus or higher up. The liver about 9 mm. long by a breadth of 

 4.2 and a height of 4.0 mm. ; of brownish-gray color ; the anterior end 

 truncate, inclined downwards and backwards ; the anterior one-third of 

 the right side flattened for the anterior genital mass ; the posterior end 

 somewhat pointed, rounded at the point. 



The sanguineous gland whitish, covering the anterior end of the 

 bulbus pharyngeus and the foremost part of the central nervous system 

 or this last and the hinder part of the bulbus. 



The anterior genital mass about 3.5 mm. long by a breadth of 0.75 

 and a height of 1.5 mm., a very large part of it formed by the thick 

 part of the spermatoduct. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct 

 about 2.0 mm. long, rathf r thin, whitish. The spermatoduct long ; 

 the first part thinner, about 8.0 mm. long ; the rest making a large 

 curve, about 5.5 mm. long, about three times as thick as the first, with 

 a diameter of 0.6 mm. ; the spermatoduct proper making many coils in 

 its interior course downwards to the penis, which shows a little un- 

 armed glans in the bottom of its orifice ; in one individual the penis 

 was exserted as a conical prominence of the height of 1.0 mm. The 

 spermatotheca pyriform, about 1,0 mm. long, of grayish color; the 

 spermatocysta a little less large, spherical ; the vagina rather short. 

 The mucous gland rather small. 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



Even this species might perhaps be merely a variety of the former ; 

 still it is of a quite different color and the back much more coarsely 

 j^ranulated, 



4 Adalaria albopapillosa (Dall). PL IX. H^. Ifi; PI. X, fig. 9-11. 



Alderia (? ?) albopapillosa, Dall, Amer. Journ. of Conch., vii, 2, 1873, 

 p. 137. 



Color pallide flavescens, papillis dorsalibus niveis. 

 Dentes laterales (magni) hamo basi denticulato. 

 Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum septentrion. (Sitka). 



Of this curious animal Dall caught three specimens [in company 

 with the Doris (Archidoris) Montereyensis and the jEolidia {Her- 

 missenda) opalesceiis'], in July, 1865, on algte, at the depth of six 

 fathoms, at Sitka (Alaska). 



According to the drawings of Dall, the color of the living animal is 

 very pale yellow,^ the back all over covered with chalk-white papillae ; 

 the length was 3, the breadth 2 lines. The three original specimens 

 preserved in spirits were of a length of 5.5 to 7.0 mm., of a gi-eatest 

 breadth of 4.0 to 4.5 mm., and a height of 2.75 mm. 1 he color was 

 uniformly translucent grayish and yellowish whitish. The form of the 

 animal was oval, the mantle a little larger than and hiding the rest of 

 the body. 'I he back convex, covered all over with a multitude of 

 cylindrical or fusiform, relatively rather large papilla?, reaching to the 

 height of a full millimetre, and with some few small ones spread 

 between them. The rhinophor-openings at their usual place, having, 

 as usual (with retracted organs *, thin margins ; before them always 

 two larger papillae, behind them a little naked space.^ The club of 

 the (yellowish) rhinophoria with about twenty-five leaves. The gill 

 rather small; the branchial leaves (yellowish), as usual, set in horse- 

 shoe form, lower or at least not higher than the dorsal papillte, in 

 number, ten to twelve ; the anal papilla rather low, with one of the 

 ordinary papilla? before and one behind it ; the space between the 



' "Of an opaque white, the remainder of the animal except the eyes, 

 being translucent yellowish." — Dall. 



- Dall did not detect the retracted rhinophoria ("tentacles none") ; the 

 "black eyes sessile on the anterior surface of the body, near the mantle 

 margin," did not exist in the figure, but in one individual two black sand- 

 particles were lying there. The true eyes of the animal could not be de- 

 tected through the skin, and were lying more backwards. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



branchial leaves and the anus otherwise naked. ^ The genital open- 

 ing as usual. The foot rather large, with a very fine furrow in the 

 anterior margin. The head as usual ; the tentacles relatively rather 

 large 



The three individuals were dissected. The peritoneum was color- 

 less. 



The central nervous system quite as in the former species, the vis- 

 ceral ganglions lying outside of the cerebral ; no distal olfactory 

 ganglion could be detected ; the buccal ganglia connected through a 

 commissure at least as long as the diameter of the ganglion ; the 

 gastro-ocsophageal ganglia and the eyes as in the former species. 

 The otocysts could not be detected. In the leaves of the rhinophoria 

 the spicula much more scanty. In the skin the same kind of not 

 much calcified spicula as in the former species ; the papillae of the 

 back very richly endowed with such, and commonly with a mass of 

 them projecting with their points (PI. IX, fig. 16) on the surface of the 

 papilke. 



The bulbus pharyngeus as in the former species ; the length about 

 1.5 mm., two-fifths of which is the straight, backwards projecting 

 sheath of the radula ; the cuticula of the lip-disk as usual ; the 

 buccal crop somewhat compressed, with rather long pedicel. The 

 tongue with nine or ten rows of plates, farther backwards sixteen or 

 seventeen developed and three younger rows ; the total number of 

 them, twenty-nine or thirty. The median plates (^fig. 9a, 10a) nearly 

 as in the former species, or a little shorter. The large lateral plates 

 (fig. 9b, 106) rising to the height of 0.12 mm., yellow ; their form as 

 in the former species, but at the inside of the hook at its root were 

 three to six or seven to eight small denticles. The external lateral 

 plates (fig. lOcd, 11) farther backwards, in number constantly eight; 

 the outermost (fig. 11a) very small, the others as in the former species. 



The salivary glands, as far as could be determined, were as in the 

 last species ; so also the oesophagus and crop ; also the stomach and 

 the intestine, which seemed to have the usual bag (pancreas, biliary 

 sac) at the pyloric part. The sanguineous gland flattened, grayish, 

 cordate. The liver of brownish-gray color. 



In the hermaphroditic gland no ripe elements were found, and the 

 anterior genital mass was very small 



* According to Dall, the " anus is terminal under the edge of the mantle." 

 This was erroneous. He did not see the gill, but regarded the dorsal papillae 

 as "branchial appendages." 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



The species is easy to distinguish from the former, by its color and 

 especially by the denticulated hook of the large lateral plates. 



5 Adalaria Loveni (Aldir et Hancock). PI. X, fig. 6-S. 



Doris muricata? O. F. Miiller, Sars, Bidr. til Soedyreues Naturb., 



1829, p. 15. Tab. 11, fig. 7, 8. 

 Doris Loveni, Alder et Hanc. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 3 Ser., X, 18(>2, 



p. 262. * 



Lamellidoris Loveni, Friele et Arm. Hansen, 1. c. p. 3. 

 Lameliidoris Loveni, G. O. Sars. Moll. reg. arct. Norv., 1878, p. 364. 



Tab. XIV, fig. 1. 

 ? Lamellidoris muricata (Mull.) Abildgaard. Morch, Faunula Moll. 



Ins. Fiiroens. Naturb. Foren. Yidsk. Meddel., 1867, p. 75.' 

 Doris muricata, Miiller, Sars ('>), Loven, lud. Moll., 1846, p. 5. 

 Doris muricata, M. Sars. Reise i Lofoten og Fiumarken, 1851, p. 75. 



Color dorsi et rhinophoriarum e brunneo lutescens, paginal inferioris 

 et branchiae lutescens. 



Dentes laterales (magni) hamo edentulo ; externi (linguae) 

 numero 12. 



Hob. Oc. Atlant. septentr. 



This species was first noticed by Sars, who hesitatingly regarded it 

 as perhaps the Doris imiricata of Mueller. It is, moreover, the prin- 

 cipal form of the Doris muricata (" Mueller, Sars ") of Lovt'n (his 

 second variety being the true L. muricata) ; has been established 

 (1862) as a species by Alder and Hancock, and has as such been 

 adopted by Friele and Hansen, as well as by G. O. Sars, who lately 

 gave figures of the teeth on the tongue. The species has been much 

 confounded with the *' D. muricata," which is a Lamellidoris ; it is 

 certainly distinct from the Ad. proximn^ and seems also to differ from 

 the other described species. 



Of this form I have had fifteen individuals for examination, kindly 

 sent me by Mr. Friele, of Bergen, and dredged in the neighborhood of 

 that place. 



' According to Morch (Rink. Gronland, I, 1857. Tillaig 4, p. 78), the D. 

 muricata, Sars, should bo the D. liturata, Beck ; this last is a mere variety 

 of the Lamellidoris bilamellata, and with this should, on the other hand, 

 accoidiug to Morch (Faunula Mollusc. Isl. Naturh, Foren. Vidensk. Med- 

 del., 1868, p. 203), the D. proximo of Meyer and Moebius be synonymous, 

 which belongs to the quite diflferent genus, Adalaria. An example more — 

 if such were needed — of the way in which the Nudibranchiata have been 

 .synonymized and systematized. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The color of the animals preserved in spirits was uniformly yel- 

 lowish. The length was 13-15.0 mm., by a breadth of 8.5-9.5 and a 

 height of 4-5.0 mm.; the breadth of the foot 6 mm.; the height of 

 the rhinophoria about 2.5 mm., of the branchial leaves 1.0-1.3 mm. ; 

 according to M. Sars the height of the rhinophoria is four to five times 

 that of the tubercles of the back, (1. c. p. 16, also in one of his figures 

 fig> 7). The form as usual ; the back .covered all over with large 

 rounded tubercles, which rose to the height of 1.5 mm., and were of 

 a similar breadth ; they were sessile or more or less subpedunculate, 

 sometimes set in indistinct longitudinal rows ; between the larger 

 tubercles everywhere were smaller ones of different sizes ; on the 

 margin of the back were tubercles of middle size or smaller ; the 

 spicula rather indistinct between and in the tubercles. The rhinophor- 

 openings as usual, two large tubercles before them ; the club of the 

 organs with about twenty-five leaves. The gill with eight to twelve 

 leaves ; according to M. Sars, the number of branchial leaves is ten — 

 to LovL'n, eight to ten. A large (high) tubercle between the hindermost 

 leaves, before it the low anal papilla, and to the right side the renal 

 pore ; some few smaller papillae were spread over the space between 

 the anus and the branchial leaves The head large, broad ; the short 

 tentaculje pointed. The genital opening as usual. 



Six individuals were dissected. The peritoneum was colorless. 



The central nervous system rather flattened, especially the visceral 

 ganglia, which lay on the outer side of and behind the cerebral ones', 

 which were a little larger ; the pedal ones larger than either of the 

 other ganglia, situated perpendicularly upon the former. The proxi- 

 mal olfactory ganglia bulbiform, a little smaller than the buccal ones ; 

 no distal could be found. The length of the commissures equal to the 

 largest diameter of the pedal ganglia ; the subcerebro-pedal about 

 three times as thick as the visceral. '! he buccal ganglia of oval form, 

 connected through a short commissure ; the gastro-oesophageal about 

 one-sixth of the former in size, with one very large cell. 



The eyes with black pigment, yellow lens ; the nervus opticus about 

 as long as the largest diameter of the cerebral ganglion. ']"he otocyst* 

 of the same size as the eyes, situated externally at the junction of 

 the cerebral and the visceral ganglia ; with about fifty ordinary 

 otokonia, but among them four to six larger ones, of a diameter of 

 about 0.025 mm. The leaves of t^e rhinophoria nearly without 

 spicula ; in the axes, and especially in the stalks, on the contrary, an 

 enormous quantity of large spicula, in great part transversely situ- 




1830.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. St 



ated. In the skin a rather large quantity of spicula. The broad 

 centres of the warts of the back chalk-white in transverse section, on 

 account of the mass of strong spicula which ascend in bundles through 

 the axes of the warts, their peripheral parts being free from spicula. 

 The spicula, for the most part, staff-shaped or cruciate, reaching a 

 diameter of about 0.08 mm. ; small and large rounded ones were 

 also very common ; the spicula mostly very strongly calcified. In the 

 interstitial tissue calcified cells were seen scantily. 



The mouth-tube was 1.5 mm. long ; the bulbus pharyngeus about 

 I. .5 mm. long, the sheath of the radula projecting about 75 mm., 

 bent upwards ; the sucking-crop nearly as large as the proper bulbus, 

 short-stalked. The Hp-disk with the cuticula rather thick, especially 

 at the inferior median line, here sometimes prominent and reminding 

 one of the two blades in the AcantJwdorides. The tongue (in the six 

 individuals examined) with seven to nine rows of teeth ; further back- 

 wards twenty-nine, thirty-one, or thirty-four (in three individuals) 

 developed, and three younger rows ; the total number of rows was 

 thus forty-two to forty-six. The median plates (fig. 8a) and the large 

 lateral (fig. 6«a, Y, 86) ones quite as in the Ad. Pac'fica, also the ex- 

 ternal ones (fig. 6 J, 8c), but the number of those never surpassed ten 

 or twelve ;^ frequently all gone from the tongue, and only existing in 

 the two to four posterior rows ; the height of the large lateral plates 

 rising to about 0.09 mm. 



The salivary glands, as usual, white. The oesophagus somewhat 

 wider in its first part ; the stomach as usual ; the liver of usual form, 

 its substance of yellow color ; on the first quarter of the right side an 

 impression for the anterior genital mass. The vesica fellea rather 

 smaller, on the right side of and a little behind the pyloric part of the 

 intestine, with its upper end appearing on the surface of the liver ; 

 the duct nearly as long as the bag, opening in the stomach. 



The sanguineous gland of subquadratic form, the largest diameter 

 about 2.3 mm., very much flattened, whitish. The tube on the floor 

 of the renal chamber rather strong. 



The hermaphroditic gland clothing the liver with a thin, whitish- 

 gray layer. The anterior genital mass small, nearly undeveloped, 

 much compressed, of about 1.75 mm. in length, the height a little less. 

 The ampulla of the hermaphroditic gland thin, otherwise as usual. 



' According to Friele and Hansen (1. c. p. 3) the number of external 

 plates is twelve ; the figure of these authors (Tab, II, fig. 1) is rather bad. 

 G. O. Sars has eleven to twelve external plates in his figure. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The spermatoduct as usual, also the penis.* The spermatotheca and 

 the spermatocysta as usual. The mucous gland very small, whitish 

 and yellow. 



ACANTHODOEIS, Graj. 



Acanthodoris, Gray, Figs, of Moll. Animals, iv, 1850, p. 103, Guide Moll. 



Brit. Mas. 1857, p. 207. 

 AeaniJiodoris, Alder and Hancock, Mon. Brit. Nud. Moll., vii, 1855, p. 43, 



app. p. xvii. G. O. Sars, Moll. reg. arct. Norvegise, 1878, p. 308, 



Tab. xiv, fig. 4. 

 Acanthodoris, R. Bergh, Gattung. Nord. Doriden, 1. c, 1879, p. 35G-360. 



Forma corporis subdepressa. Nothaeum supra sat grosse villosum. 

 Branchia (non retractilis) e foliis tripinnatis non multis et in orbem 

 positis formata. 



Caput latum, veliforme ; tentaculis brevibus, lobiformibus. Margo 

 apertur«um rhinophorialium lobatus. 



Discus labialis armatura e hamulis minutis formata et infra cuticula 

 incrassata prominenti instructus. Lingua rhachide nuda ; pleuris an- 

 gustis dente laterali, hamiformi permagno et dentibus externie minutis- 

 (4-8). 



Ingluvies buccalis bulbo pharyngeo connata. 



Penis armatura e hamulis minutis formata instruetus. Vagina 

 lonsissima. 



'o- 



The genus Acanthodoris was established by Gray, to receive the 

 Doris pilosa with its non-retractile gill. Alder and Hancock adopted 

 the genus, made an anatomical examination of the typical form and 

 gave it natural characters, which were then adopted by Gray. In 

 several new malacological publications of a systematic nature the genus 

 has been omitted, and in the last twenty years no new information has 

 been published, until G. O. Sars lately gave some notes on the bulbus 

 pharyngeus. 



The Acanthodorides approach the Lamellidorides, yet differ ex- 

 ternally in the scattered soft villosities of the back and in the smaller 

 number of the leaves of the gill, which are arranged in a circle. 



Internally they differ still more, in the presence of a strong, oral 

 armature, in a different dentition (4 + 84-1+0 + 1+8-1-4), by a pecu- 



' Sars (1. c. p. 16) mentions and figures (fig. 8) the penis as "a large, 

 white, conical " organ. 




1880.] * NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



liarly armed penis and by the imbedding in the pharyngeal bulbus of 

 the buccal crop,^ 



The Acanihodorides are not much depressed. The back is covered 

 with soft villi or papillte ; the openings for the rhinophoria have lobed 

 margins. The gill is not retractile, and consists of several (generally 

 seven to nine) tripinnate leaves, quite distinct from one another.^ 



The labial disk is provided with a densely set armature of small 

 hooks, passing backward on the cuticula of the mouth. This last also, 

 in the lowest part of the mouth, at each side of the median line is 

 thickened and projects like two thin, lancet-shaped blades over the 

 bare space left between the lower parts of the prehensile collar.^ The 

 form of the bulbus pharyngeus is as in the Lamellidorides, but the 

 buccal crop is imbedded in the upper wall of the bulbus, opening into 

 it through a slit, and is not connected with it by a short stalk. 



The tongue is not broad, but nearly fills the buccal cavity, with a flat 

 furrow for the radula. This last has a naked rhachis, with a low and 

 narrow, longitudinal fold. The pleuraj contain a very large, com- 

 pressed, upright, lateral plate, with a large body and a rather short, 

 strong hook, denticulated or plain along the inner margin ; at the 

 outer side of the large plate are several (four to eight) small, external 

 plates (increasing in number backwards). The salivary glands long, 

 thicker in their foremost part. The oesophagus with a little, crop-like 

 diverticle at its root. Above the pyloric part of the intestine opens a 



' The genus Calycidoris, of Abraham (Notes on some new genera of 

 Nudibranchiate Moll., Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 4th ser., xviii, 1876, p. 132 ; 

 and Revision of the Anthobranchiate Nudibr. Moll., P. Z. S., 1877, p. 224 j, 

 which is said to be allied to the Acantlwdorides and Lamellidorides, still 

 differs by its " subretractile " gill, with simple pinnate leaves, and does 

 not possess external plates on the radula. The genus is very probably 

 apocryphal ; iu the phauerobranchiate Dorididm it often happens that the 

 gill appears as if more or less retracted in a cavity. A single new species 

 is mentioned, of unknown habitat, the C. OuniJieri, Abr., 1. c., p. 133, PL 

 vi, fig. 1. 



■■' Alder and Hancock mention and figure (1. c, PI. 15, fig. 2, 3) the 

 branchial leaves as "united at the base ;" so do Meyer and Moebius (1. c, 

 p. 65) ; this is not the case. The leaves are quite isolated, but there are 

 usually one or two foliola standing between them, which might simulate a 

 coherence of the leaves (cf. also PI. xv, fig. 6, A. and H.). 



' These thickenings of the cuticle have been regarded, both by Alder 

 and Hancock, and more lately by Meyer and Moebius (1. c, p. 64, taf. v 

 A, fig. 8, K 9), as "jaws," but have hardly anything in common with those 

 organs properly so called. 

 7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



little sac, which seems to be homologous with the biliary sac (pancreas, 

 autt.) of other Dorididse. Alder and Hancock, therefore, have de- 

 nominated that part of the digestive tract as " stomach," although it 

 in no essential respect differs from the rest of the intestine, and is 

 just like that part in the Chromodorides, and should be undoubtedly 

 regarded as the pyloric part of the intestine, when that sac opened 

 lower down, as in the Chromodorides,^ in the cavity, which is included 

 in the liver, and seems to be the true stomach. The spermatoduct and 

 the chief duct of the spermatotheca (vagina) are of very considerable 

 ■ length ; the former consisting of two different parts, a superior softer, 

 and an inferior very muscular part, internally clothed with an arma- 

 ture, which is continuous through the penis. This last is rather short, 

 the superior part solid and projecting as an armed glans into the in- 

 ferior, hollow part (prseputium). The armature consists of rows of 

 hooks continued in the interior of the organ, and, as mentioned above, 

 farther upwards ; quite like that of the Polyceridse^^ Fhyllidiidse^ 

 and Doriopsidae.* 



About the biological relations of these forms very little is yet known 

 and that only with reference to the typical species, through Alder and 

 Hancock, as well as Meyer and Moebius. The spawn is figured by 

 Alder and Hancock (1. c, PI. 15, fig. 9), and by Meyer and Moebius 

 (1. c, fig. 13, 14) ; about the development nothing is yet known. 



The few known species of this genus seem limited to the northern 

 parts of the Atlantic and of the Pacific. 



1. Acanthodoris pilosa (O, F. Miiller). Oceanum Atlanticum et Pacificum, 

 Doris pilosa, Cuv. 

 Doris stellata (6m.), Cuv.* 



> Cf. my Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Philipp., II, ii), Heft xi, 1877, p. 

 464-494 ; Neue Nacktschnecken der Siidsee, 11, Journ. der Mus. Godeffroy, 

 Heft viii, 1875, p. 72-82 ; idem, iv, 1. c, Heft xiv, 1879, p. 1-21. 



2 Cf. my Malacolog. Uuters. (Semper, Philipp., II, ii), Heft xi, 1877 

 (Trevelyana. Nembrotha). 



^ Cf. my Bidr. til en Monogr. af Phyllidierne, Naturh., Tidskr. 3, R. V., 

 1869 ; Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Philipp., II, ii), Heft x, 1876, p. 377- 

 387. 



* Cf., 1. c, Heffc X, 1876, p. 384-387 ; Journ. der Mus. Godeffroy, Heft 

 viii, 1875, p. 82 94. 



^ According to Fischer (Note sur quelques especes du G. Doris, decrites 

 par Cuvier, Journ de Conchyl. 3 ser. x, 1870, p. 290), the Doris stellata, 

 Cuv., and the D Icevis, Cuv., are identical with his D. pilosa, and this with 

 the typical form of Miiller. 



The D. stellata of Philippi seems a quite different form, a Platydoris 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Doris Imvis, Cuv. 



? Doris fv sea, O. F. Mull., Zool. Dan. (descr.).' 



? Doris tomentosa, Loven, Index Moll. 1846, p. 4. 



3. A. subquadrata (Aid. et Hanc). Oceanum Atlanticum. 



Doris subquadrata, A. et H. Monogr., Part. V, 1851, fam. 1, Plate 



10, f. 1-3 ; Part VII, 1855, p. 43, and III, PI. 46, Suppl. f. 14. 

 ? {D. stdlata, Cuv. ?). Lebert, Beob. iiber die Mundung einiger 

 Gasteropoden, J. Muller, Arch., 1846, p. 441-446, Taf. XII, fig. 

 10-13.^ 

 S. A. cmrulescens, Bgh., n. sp. Oceanum Pacificum. 



4. A, ornata, Verrill. Notice of recent additions to the mar. fauna of the 



eastern coast of North Amer. XXXVIII ; Amer. Journ. of Sc. and 

 Arts, XVI, 1878, p. 318. Oc. Atlant. 



5. A. siellata (Gm.), Verr., 1. c, p. 313, D. bifida, Verr. Oc. Atlant. 



6. A. citrina, Verr., 1. c, p. 313. Oc. Atlant. 



7. A. f mollicella, Abraham, 1. c, 1877, p. 228, PI. XXX, fig. 1-4. Oc. 



Pacincum. 



8. A. ? globosa, Abr., 1. c, 1877, p. 228, PI. XXX, fig. 5-9. Oc. Pacif. 



I. Acanthodoris pilosa (0. F. MUller). Plate X, fig. 12-15; Plate XI, fig. 1-2; 



Pl;.te XII; Plate XIII, fig. 2-5. 



Acanthodoris pilosa (O. F. Muller), Alder and Hancock. Monogr. Br. 

 Nudibr. Moll., Part V, 1851, fam. 1, Plate I, f. 1, 3-5, 12; Plate 2, 

 f. 2-6; Plate 15; Part VII, 1855, Plate 46; Supph Plate 48, f. 1. 



Doris pilosa (O. F. Miiller), Meyer und Moebius, Fauna der Kieler Bucht, 

 I, 1865, p. 63-67 c. tab.; taf. V, A. 



" Color pagin'cB superioris corporis albus vel luteus vel fuscus vel 

 griseus vel rubro-brunneus vel niger. 



Dentes radute barao pro parte denticulato. 



Hab. Oceanum Atlanticum septentr., Pacific, septentr. 



< Platyd. FMlippii, Bgh.). Cf. my Malacolog. Untersuch. (Semper, Philipp. 



II, ii.). Heft, xii, 1877, p. 507. 



' It is in most cases a quite useless task to try to elucidate the species of 

 Dorides of the elder authors ; their examinations vrere all too superficial 

 and their descriptions don't contain the data necessary for their verifica- 

 tion. The best way would be to wholly cancel these names {D. fusca, M.; 

 D, loRtis, L., etc.) which have given later authors so much trouble. On the 

 Doris fusca of O. Fabricius, Morch has even formed a genus Proctaporia 

 (Rink. Gronland. I, 1857. Tillag. 4, p. 78), that must be cancelled, too. 



* The short statements of Lebert about form and color of the animal 

 examined by him can scarcely entirely prohibit the identification of it with 

 the species described by Alder and Hancock. The figures of the (tongue) 

 teeth given by Lebert, rough as they are, suffice, on the other hand, to 

 secure the identification with the D. subquadrata, or at least with a nearly 

 related species. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Of this species I have had a lot of specimens for examination, all 

 preserved in spirits; partly (two) from the neighborhood of Bergen 

 (Norway), kindly sent by Mr. Friele, partly (one) from the Frith of 

 Kiel, sent by Prof. Moebius ; but particularly (seventeen) from the 

 coast of Denmark (Striib, lille Bait.) 



The individuals varied much in color. The variability of the color 

 is noted by Alder and Hancock, They were whitish, or whitish sprinkled 

 with brownish, or dark (bluish) gray, or yellowish, or brownish, or 

 reddish-brown on the back, with whitish or yellowish sides and foot. 

 The length reaching 12.0 mm., by a breadth of 80 and a height of 

 5.0 mm. ; the foot then about 4.0 mm. broad, the branchial leaves 

 reaching to the height of about 1.0 mm. 



The back covered all over with the soft, slender, conical and pointed, 

 erect (or curved) papillas of very different sizes, most of them small ; 

 between these are larger ones ;^ some of the largest divided into two 

 or three points, and some of them connate and forming small crests, 

 divided above into two or three points. The margins of the sheaths 

 of the rhinophoria rather prominent, divided into several (six to eight) 

 smaller and larger pointed lobes ; the club of the rhinophoria with about 

 twelve to twenty leaves.^ The branchia, in both Norwegian specimens, 

 with eight tripinnate leaves, otherwise with seven to nine (as men- 

 tioned by Meyer and Moebius). The anal papilla low, with several 

 papillulag and a star-shaped aperture ; on a low crest, issuing from its 

 posterior, is a strong papilla. The head and the tentacles (Plate X, 

 fig. lib) as figured by Alder and Hancock (1. c, Plate 15, fig. 1). 

 The anterior margin of the foot with a fine transverse furrow (Plate X, 

 fig. 14a). The genital opening is a longitudinal slit (Plate XI, fig. 2). 



The peritoneum was mostly of reddish-brown color. 



The central nervous system showed^ the cerebral ganglia rounded- 

 triangular, not much flattened, a little larger than the more rounded 

 visceral, which lie behind and on the outside of them and show a slight 

 notch in the outside ; on the inferior side of the visceral ganglia the 

 pedal ones are set nearly perpendicular on the latter, connected by the 



^ Alder and Hancock, also Meyer and Moebius give eighteen to twenty 

 leaves. Cf. the figures 7-8 of Meyer and Moebius. 



* Collingwood (Ann. Mag. N, H., 3 ser. vi, 1859, p. 463) remarks that it 

 " when not in motion; bears a great resemblance to a miniature hedgehog." 



^ The representation of the system given by Hancock and Embleton (On 

 the anatomy of Doris, Philos. Transact. MDCCCLH, Plate 17, f. 8) is not 

 very like nature. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



three distinct commissures, which are nearly as long as the diameter 

 of the ganglia. From the outer part of the right visceral ganglion 

 issues a nerve nearly as long as the transverse diameter of the whole 

 central nervous system and swelling to a rather large ganglion (gangl. 

 penis) at the root of the penis ; this ganglion contains only rather 

 small cells and gives off three or four strong and several thinner nerves 

 (Plate X, fig. 15). The part of the brain which gives off the nervus 

 opticus, simulates a ganglion. The proximal ganglia olfactcia bulbi- 

 form, somewhat smaller than the buccal ganglia, but much larger than 

 the distal ganglia olfactoria ; the buccal ganglia flattened, rounded, con- 

 nected by a rather short commissure ; the ganglia gastro-oesophagalia 

 rounded, having about one-fifth of the size of the last, containing one 

 very large cell and a few smaller. 



The eyes with black pigment and yellowish lens. The otocysts 

 lying at the hinder part of the cerebral ganolia, as large as the eyes ; 

 with numerous small otokonia, which in the specimens from Kiel, 

 were not much calcified. No trace of spicula in the leaves or other 

 parts of the riiinophoria. The spicula of the skin were, so to speak, 

 limited to the margins of the mantle and of the foot ; in the last they 

 were chiefly arranged perpendicularly or obliquely against the margin, 

 except that in the foremost and hinder part of the sole some few spic- 

 ula were seen scattered. 



The amount of spicula in the skin seems to vary notably in the 

 Acanthodoris piJosa, as seems to be the case in general in different 

 forms of Dorididce, especially, as far as hitherto known, in the Poly- 

 ceratidce {Polycera, Ancula). (Cf. Meyer and Moebius, Fauna der 

 Kieler Bucht, I, 1865, pp. 52, 60.) Frey and Leuckart (Beitr. zur 

 Kenntn. wirbellose Thiere, 1847, p. 145 ; described a very regular 

 position of the spicula, but not, as it seems, in accordance with nature. 



In the margin of the mantle the spicula were arranged as figured by 

 Alder and Hanc., 1. c. Part VII, PI. 48, supplem. fig. 1, only more con- 

 centrically at the transition from the margin to the side of the body; a 

 narrow belt of spicula crossed the back before the region of the gill. 

 Some spicula were also seen in the tentacles. The spicula reached a 

 notable length (at least 0.6 mm.^, in old individuals they were more 

 calcified than in younger ones. The skin was filled with unicellular 

 glands, especially in the dorsal papilla?.' 



The mouth-tube was wide and strong, about 1.5 mm. long; the 

 bulbus pharyngeus in the largest individuals about 2.75 mm. long, by 



^ Cf. the (not very good) fig. 6 by Meyer and Moebius. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



a breadth of 2.0 and a height of about 3.0 mm. ; the sheath of the 

 radula projecting backward nearly 1.0 mm. ; the lip-disk sometimes 

 surrounded by a ring of black pigment. The armature of the lip- 

 disk entirely as shown (PI. XII, figs. 1-4, 10-11) by me in the form 

 from the Pacific, also the crop (PI. XIII, fig. 2) of the bulbus.' 

 The tongue in the eight specimens examined was provided with five, 

 seven, eight, nine rows of plates, farther backwards also sixteen to 

 twenty developed, and three younger rows; the total number amount- 

 ing thus to from twenty-seven to thirty.^ The large latei-al teeth^ yellow 

 in the body, especially in the anterior-inferior part, with commonly five 

 to eight denticles on the inside of the hook ; sometimes, especially in 

 the younger plates, the number of denticles rose from eleven to fifteen, 

 sometimes the three to four outermost denticles were much larger than 

 the rest, sometimes the denticulation was quite irregular ; the height 

 of this plate reached 0.4 mm. The outer plates (PI. XI, fig. 1) com- 

 monly four to six, seldom seven to eight ; in a series of four on the 

 hinder part of the tongue, the outermost measured about 0.05, the next 

 0.09, 0.11, 0.125 mm.; they were quite colorless, compressed, with 

 the upper side flattened, and rather erect. 



The salivary glands as in the purple-colored form from the Pacific. 

 No constant dilatation of the middle of the oesophagus (as figured, 

 PI. I, f. 12^', by Alder and Hancock), but a strong, particular one at 

 the root as figured (1. c. PI. I, f. 12/j by Alder and Hancock and by 

 me (Gatt. nordischer Doriden, 1. c. Taf. XIX, fig. 14r). The 

 stomach as in the Pacific form ; the intestine sometimes dilated in its 

 first part, sometimes absolutely of the same caliber as the rest, and 

 neither externally nor internally different from it ; a little bag 

 (biliary sac) which has been noticed by Alder and Hancock (1. c. PI, 

 I, fig. 12^'), opening into the right side of this part of the intestine. 

 The posterior visceral mass (liver) flattened and excavated on the 

 anterior-inferior right half. The sanguineous gland whitish, convexo- 

 concave, short and irregularly kidney-formed, with the excavation 



^ The first specimens of the Nortliern Atlantic left at my disposition 

 being too small and too few for a thorough examination, I am obliged to 

 refer to my examination given herewith of the form fiom the Pacific. Cf. 

 moreover my figures iu "Gatt. uord. Doriden," 1. c. PI. XIX, figs. 10, 11. 

 The crop is rather well figured by Alder and Hanc. (1. c. PI. I, f, 12c). 



* According to Meyer and Moebius, the number of plates ("of the 

 radula") is thirty-one, to Alder and Hancock, twenty-seven. 



* Cf. my Gattungeu nordischer Doriden, 1 c. Taf. XIX, fig. 12. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



forwards, transversely situated, with a largest diameter of 3.0 mm. 

 The renal chamber and the syrinx as in the form from the Pacific. 



The hermaphroditic gland as in this last variety, its white color con- 

 trasting with the hue of the liver. The anterior genital mass of short 

 pyramidal form, with the point outwards, about 4.75 mm. long, the 

 breadth and the height a little less. The ampulla of the hermaphro- 

 ditic gland yellowish-white, forming a single ansa, about 4.0 mm. long, 

 by a diameter of 0.75 mm. lying on the upper part of the back of the 

 mucous gland. The spermatoduct yellowish, about 15.0 mm. long, 

 constricted a little above the middle of its length ; strong, sloping into 

 the penis, which is about 1.0 mm. long. The armature of the penis 

 entirely as in the form from the Pacific, continued backwards in the 

 interior of the spermatoduct for a length of 6.0 mm. ; the hooks 

 rising to the height of about 0.035 mm., nearly colorless.^ The sper- 

 matotheca (PI. XIII, fig. 5a) spherical, of a diameter of about 2 

 mm., greenish or whitish ; the spermatocysta (fig. 56) much smaller, 

 pyriform, yellowish ; both filled with sperma The chief duct (the 

 vagina, fig. 5dd) very long, with several (four) longitudinal folds, which 

 are folded again transversely ; the structure seemed to resemble en- 

 tirely the form from the Pacific ; in the cavity was more or less sperma. 

 The mucous gland yellow and yellowish-white ; the fold of the duct 

 with brownish-gray points, but no black pigment on the lower part of 

 the vagina or penis. 



One specimen of this typical form, with "brown mantle," and in 

 all respects agreeing with the Atlantic, was dredged by Dall at Kyska, 

 in June, 1873, on rocky bottom at the depth of ten fathoms. 



An individual of a (in living state) " yellowish-white " variety was 

 dredged by Dall in Popoff Strait (Shumagin Islands), on rocky bot- 

 tom at a depth of six fathoms. 



The animal preserved in spirits was 10.0 mm. long, by a breadth of 

 6.0 and a height of 4.5 mm. ; the rhinophoria 1.5 mm. high, the eill 

 1.0 mm., the foot 3.0 mm. broad. The color yellowish-white. In the 

 club of the rhinophoria about thirty leaves ; nine branchial leaves ; 

 the anal papill.i with three small protuberances ; the renal pore very 

 distinct on the right side. The genital opening very wide ; the bul- 

 bus pharyngeus 2.0 mm. long ; the tongue with seven rows of plates, 

 the total number of these twenty-six (16 + 3) ; five external 



^ The armature of the penis has been first seen by H. Friele and G. 

 Armauer Hansen (Bidr. til Kundsk. om de Norske Nudibranchiar. Christi- 

 ania, Vidsk. Selsk. Forh., 1875, extras, p. 4). 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



plates. The diverticle of the oesophagus nearly as large as the true 

 bulbus. The spermatoduct and the penis as usual, also the vagina ; 

 the spermatotheca of 1.6 mm. largest diameter. No trace of pig- 

 ment on the vagina or penis, and the peritoneum was colorless. 



Another variety of the species, with " brown mantle and yellowish- 

 white papilljB," was dredged by Dall, in Yukon Harbor (Shumagins), 

 in August, 18t4, on sand and stones, at a depth of six to twenty 

 fathoms. 



The individual preserved in spirits was 9.0 mm. long, by a breadth 

 of 6.5 mm., and a height of 4.5 mm. ; the breadth of the foot 4.0 mm., 

 the height of the gill 1.5 mm. The back of the animal densely brown- 

 dotted, especially the circumference of the gill and the free area left 

 in the middle of the gill ; the dorsal papillae all whitish ; the stalk of 

 the rhinophoria and the inferior part of the club densely dotted with 

 brown, also, in a somewhat slighter degree, the outside of the branchial 

 leaves. The under side of the mantle and the upper side of the margin 

 of the foot and, in a slighter degree, the sides of the body and the sole 

 of the foot dotted with an enormous quantity of brownish-gray points. 

 The form as usual. The gill with nine leaves, of which the two pos- 

 terior were much smaller than the others. 



The central nervous system as usual ; the otocysts very conspicuous 

 under the magnifier as chalk-white points. The mouth-tube 2.0 mm. 

 long. The bulbus pharyngeus 2.0 mm. long ; the sheath of the radula 

 projecting 2.0 mm., bent downwards. The armature of the lip-disk 

 (PI. XII, fig. 10, m very like that of the var. albescens (cf. PI. XIII, 

 fig. 4). The buccal crop as usual. The tongue with nine rows of 

 plates; the total number of rows, twenty-five (13 f 3). The large 

 lateral plates as usual ; the djnticulations rather long and somewhat 

 irregular. The number of the external plates (fig. 12) reaching to six. 

 The salivary glands, the oesophagus with its diverticle, the pyloric 

 part of the intestine with its bag (biliary sac), and the liver, as usual. 

 The sanguineous gland rather large, covering, besides the central 

 nervous system, the whole of the bulbus pharyngeus. 



In the lobes of the hermaphroditic gland, masses of zojsperms. The 

 anterior genital mass of the usual form ; the ampulla of the herma- 

 phroditic duct somewhat larger. The spermatoduct as usual ; so, too, 

 the penis, with its armature ; the length of the glans about 0.5 mm. 

 The spermatotheca and the spermatocjsta as usual; also the chief 

 duct (vagina), the cavity of the last filled with sperma. The mucous 

 gland yellowish-white and in the centre (albuminous gland) brownish- 




1 880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



yellow. Very scanty black pigment on the inferior part of the vagina 

 and of the penis ; the peritoneum of the back, on the contrary, very 

 (lark brown. 



2. Acanthodoris pilosa (0. F. MUUer), var. albescens, PL X, fig. 14, 15 ; PI. XI, fig. 2 ; 

 PI. XII, fig. 13-16. 



Color flavescente-albidus. 



Hamus dentium (lingua;) edentulus vel parce denticulatus. 



Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum septentrion. (Aleutian Islands). 



Two rather large specimens of this variety have been dredged by 

 Dall, in June and July, 1813, at Kyska Harbor (Aleutians), on sand 

 or on rocky bottom, at a depth of nine to fourteen fathoms. 



According to Dall, the color of the living animal was "yellowish- 

 white ; " that of the specimens preserved in spirits was so, too, but 

 very likely much more whitish. The length was 16.0 or 17.0 mm., 

 by a breadth of 6.5 to 8.0 mm., and a height of 6.5 mm. ; the h^^ight 

 of the rhinophoria 2.5 to 3.0 mm., of the gill 3.0 to 4.0 mm. ; the 

 breadth of the foot 5 or 6.0 mm., the length of the genital opening 

 2.0 or 3.0 mm. The form as in the typical D. jnlosa; the rhinophoria 

 showed about twenty-five broad leaves in the club ; there were nine 

 branchial leaves ; the anal papilla very low ; the renal pore rather large. 



The central nervous system as previously described. The distal 

 olfactory ganglion small ; a large (diameter, 0.4 mm.) ganglion penis 

 (fig. 15). The eyes with rich, coal-black pigment ; the otocysts visible 

 under a lens as chalk-white points, with about one hundred and fifty 

 otokonia. 



The bulbus pharyngeus 8.5 mm. long, with the sheath of the radula 

 projecting 1.3 to 1.5 mm.; the height of the bulbus, with the crop, 

 4.0 to 4.5 mm., its breadth 2.5 to 3.0 mm. 



The older elements of the lip-plate (PI. XII, figs. 13, 14) agreeing 

 in form with those of the typical species, but oftener showing a granu- 

 lated interior ; the said elements reaching a length of about 0.04 mm. 

 The diameter of the disk and mouth about 3.0 mm. The breadth of 

 either half of the disk 0.66 mm. 



The tongue showed nine or ten rows of teeth ; the whole number of 

 rows, twenty-nine (16 or 174-3). The large lateral teeth were as in the 

 typical species, reaching 0.65 mm. in height (PI. XII, fig. 15, 16), 

 without or with only a very slight denticulation of the hook (fig. 15). 

 The number of the outer teeth, three to five.' 



' Cf. my Gatt. nordischer Doriden, 1. c, Taf. xix, fig. 13. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The salivary glands deeply imbedded in the cavity for the oesophagus 

 at the fore-end of the liver. The oesophagus with its rather large 

 (1.5 mm. long) diverticle, the stomach, the intestine with its little 

 (1.0 mm. long bag, as above. The liver 7.0 to 9.0 mm. long, 5.0 to G.O 

 mm. broad, 5.0 to 6.25 mm. high, of yellowish-gray color. The san- 

 guineous gland of irregular, oval form, of a largest diameter of 4.0 

 mm., by a thickness of 1.0 mm., and of grayish color. The renal syrinx 

 about 0.75 mm. long. 



The anterior genital mass Q.O or 7.0 mm. long, 4.0 to 6.0 mm. high, 

 and 3.0 or 4.0 mm. thick. The ampulla as usual; also the (about 

 40.0 mm. long) spermatoduct and the (nearly 2.0 mm. long) penis, 

 with its armature ; the hooks often set in pairs. The spermatotheca 

 (diameter, 4.0 mm.) and the spermatocysta (diameter, 1.5 mm.) as 

 above ; the chief duct, with the vagina (about 23.0 mm. long, by a 

 diameter of 0.4 to 1.0 mm.), as usual, and also its internal cellular 

 clothing (PI. X, fig. 13) ; the yellow nucleoli somewhat brighter; the 

 cavity nearly filled with sperma. The mucous gland as usual. No 

 black pigment on the inferior part of the vagina or on the penis. 



S. Acanthodoris pilosa (0. F. MUller), mr. purpvrea, PI. XII, fig. 1-9. 



Color e purpureo brunneus et flavescente-albidus. 

 Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum septentrion. Insula? Aleutiana? (Una- 

 lashka). 



Only two specimens of this species were dredged by Dall, in Sep- 

 tember, 1874, on mud and stones, at a depth of about sixty fathoms. 



The color of the living animal was, according to Dall, '■ purple-brown 

 and jellowish-white." The length of the animals preserved in spirits 

 was 24.0 or 25.0 mm., by a breadth of 9.0 or 10.0 mm., and a height 

 of 7.5 mm.; the foot 6.0 mm. broad; the height of the rhinophoria 

 about 3.0 mm., of the branchial leaves 2.3 mm. The color of the 

 back reddish-brown ; the stalk of the rhinophoria brownish, the club 

 yellowish ; the branchial leaves yellowish-white, the last brownish at 

 the rhachis ; the under side of the mantle margin, with the sides of 

 the body, the head and the foot, yellowish-white, dotted with brownish- 

 gray all over, the color much more scanty on the sides of the foot and 

 still more so on the head and on the sole of the foot. 



The form was somewhat elongate. The back covered all over with 

 pointed, rather (0.75 mm ) high, digitiform, soft papilla3 and with inter 

 mixed smaller ones. The margin of the rhinophor-holes with several 

 pointed, projecting, digitiform processes ; the stout club of the rhino- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



phoria with about twenty leaves. The branchial leaves stronjr, (in both 

 individuals) eiglit in number, the two hindermost separateil by a narrow 

 crest, which rises into a larger papilla ; before this the anal papilla, 

 covered with some papilloe, at its right side is the r^nal pore ; on the 

 space before it were several smaller papilla?. The under side of the 

 free margin of the mantle (about 2.0 mm, broad) smooth. The head 

 large, the tentacles short. The genital opening a rather large, cres- 

 centic orifice. The foot rounded behind. 



The peritoneum was richly dotted on the back with brownish-red. 



The central nervous system nearly quite as in Ac. pilosa; the 

 proximal olfactory ganglia of oval form, true distal ones could not be 

 detected in the root of the rhinophoria, but only a fusiform swelling of 

 the nerve, with scattered nervous cells. The subcerebral and pedal 

 commissures connected, the visceral isolated. The buccal ganglia 

 larger than the olfactory, of oval form, connected by a commissure 

 nearly as long as each ganglion ; the gastro oesophageal ganglia de- 

 veloped on the side of the nerve, which is a little longer than the 

 ganglion, and in size about one-fifth of the former ; the contents one 

 very large cell, three or four smaller and several quite small ones. 

 On the upper part of the penis the large ganglion genitale, of about 

 the diameter of 0,3 mm., rounded, partly covered with black pigment 

 consisting of only rather small cells ; in the first parts of the nerves 

 given off from the ganglion, one or two rows of nervous cells of the 

 same kind as in the ganglion. 



The eyes with black pigment, yellow lens ; the optic nerve rather 

 long. As chalk-white points the otocysts were situated on the hinder 

 part of the cerebral ganglia, where they touched the pedal ones ; they 

 were filled with solid, yellowish otokonia of about the usual form and 

 size, but, in both respects, rather irregular. In the leaves of the 

 rhinophoria no spicula. In the margin of the mantle and of the foot 

 almost no spicula at all, but everywhere in the skin, especially on the 

 back and the papilla, were an enormous quantity of large and small 

 glandular openings. In the interstitial connective tissue were hardly 

 any calcified cells at all. 



The mouth-tube was about 2.3 ram. long, wide, with a glandular belt 

 on the outside, not closed below ; on the inside lined with a yellowish 

 cuticula. The bulbus pharyngeus strong, about 4.0 mm. long, and 

 the sheath of the radula projecting nearly 10 mm. from the posterior 

 part of the under side, directed straight backwards or downwards ; the 

 height (through the buccal crop) 4.0 mm., the breadth 2.5 mm. The 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



buccal crop making nearly half of the whole bulbus, and of the usual 

 form ; the walls very thick ; the compressed and rather small cavity 

 communicating through a long cleft with the anterior half of the 

 small buccal cavity. The lip-disk (fig. 1) of rounded contour, clothed 

 throughout its whole breadth (on each side to about 0.5 mm.) with the 

 light, horn-yellow colored armature ; the lowest part of this, as usual 

 in the Acanthodorides, injured or wanting ; the breadth of the belt 

 decreasing towards the upper end, where it is interrupted in the middle 

 line, also at the lower end. The armature (fig. 2&&, 36, 4} composed 

 of hooks, whose points are directed forwards (towards the opening of 

 the mouth), nearly like, but still differing a little from those in the 

 typical Ac. piloHO, reaching the height of about 0.04 mm., yellowish, 

 with rounded, bifid or irregularly cleft points. The lancet-shaped 

 (fig. la, 2a, 3a) blades at the inferior angle of the mouth as usual. 

 The tongue with nine or ten sei'ies of plates, farther backwards 

 thirteen to fifteen developed and three undeveloped series ; the total 

 number in this way, twenty-five to twenty-eight. The large lateral 

 plates relatively larger than in the Ac. pilosa, and (fig. 5, 6) less 

 thick in the anterior-inferior part of the body, with relatively larger 

 hook ; the denticulation of this last much weaker and much more 

 irregular ; in one specimen generally two to four denticles, sometimes 

 only a few vei'y insignificant ones or none at all (fig. 6) ; and this was 

 the case with the other specimen, in which only some few plates showed 

 two small denticles.* The outer lateral plates as in the typical form, 

 scarcely more than from four to six. 



The salivary glands whitish, rather strong at their short first part, 

 in the rest of their length thin (fig. 7), accompanying the oesophagus 

 to the cardia ; the duct rather short (fig. 7a). 



The oesophagus forming a little crop,^ with thin walls and longitu- 

 dinal folds on the inside; in the rest of its length rather thin. The 

 stomach rather small, with the usual biliary apertures. The intestine 

 (fig. 8a) somewhat inflated in its first part, with many rather strong 

 folds and one particularly thick ; a little over the point, where it 

 appears on the surface of the visceral mass, on the right side, a little, 

 scarcely pedunculated bag (fig. 8&^, of the length of 1.0 to 1.25 mm., 

 with fine, longitudinal folds ; the rest of the intestine (fig. 8c) some- 

 what narrower; the total length of the intestine about 12.0 to 13.0 



^ Although very like the plates of the Atlantic form, they still bore a 

 somewhat peculiar aspect. 

 ■^ Cf, my Gattungen uordischer Doriden, 1. c, Taf. xix, fig. 14. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



mm., by a diameter of 1.0 to 1.5 mm. The contents of the stomach 

 and of the intestine indeterminable animal matter, mixed with an 

 enormous quantity of different and partly very handsome forms of 

 Diatomacese, with some polylhalamia and some small copepoda, and 

 fragments of the same. 



The liver about 9-9.5 mm. long by a breadth (at the forepart) of 

 6.5-5.5 and a height of 6.25-6.0 mm. ; the posterior half somewhat 

 pointed, the anterior notably flattened and excavated on the right side ; 

 around the cardia the liver appeared naked (not covered by the her- 

 maphroditic gland) of (greenish) gray color, in sections it was yel- 

 lowish. 



The ramifications of the aorta nearly as in the typical Dorididce,^ 

 the root of the posterior aorta still longer and the Art. syringis renalis 

 stronger and more ramified. The sanguineous gland yellowish-white, 

 rather flattened, of irregular triangular form, lobulated, about 3.5 mm. 

 long. 



The renal chamber large ; the yellowish-white renal syrinx about 

 0.75 mm. long, its tube somewhat more than twice as long, imme- 

 diately continuous with the tube on the floor of the renal chamber. 



The hermaphroditic gland easily distinguishable from the liver 

 through its more whitish color; the secondary (ovigerous) lobes rather 

 small; in the lobes zodsperms and large oogene cells. The anterior 

 genital mass of plano-convex heart-shape with the point down and 

 backwards; the length about 5.0 mm. by a breadth of 4.0 and a height 

 of 5.0 mm. The ampulla of the very thin and white hermaphroditic 

 duct resting on the upper posterior part of the mucous gland, yellow, 

 short and thick (4.0 mm. long by a diameter of about 1.25 mm. form- 

 ing a simple ansa. The vas deferens yellowish, strong, resting upon 

 the upper side of the genital mass with its large coils and freely de- 

 scending before its anterior margin to the penis, constricted about the 

 (fig. 9c) middle of its total length (30.0-35.0 mm.). The penis forming 

 the end of the spermatoduct somewhat thicker, about 2.0 mm. long, 

 somewhat curved ; its lower part hollow, the rest solid and prominent 

 in the cavity of the former as a cylindrical glans of the length of about 

 6 mm. The glans with about ten series of yellowish hooks, which 

 from a rather large basis raised to the height of about 0.04 mm. ; the 

 continuation of the armature reaching through the interior of the glans 

 and of the spermatoduct nearly up to the stricture of the last, but the 



» Cf. my Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Philipp.) Tab. XLVIH, fig. 11. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



number of sei'ies here smaller, about five to eight. The spermatotheca 

 whitish, forming an oval bag of 3.0 mm. largest diameter ; the sperma- 

 tocysta yellowish, of 1.3-1.5 mm. largest diameter, the ducts as in the 

 typical Ac. pilosa. The chief duct, too, very (about 25.0 mm.) long, 

 rolled up in many coils, partly spiral, the diameter varying between about 

 0.3 and 0.15 mm. ; the last fourth of the duct (vagina) with scattered 

 black pigment, somewhat narrower and with a rather strong retractor 

 muscle at its commencement ; the interior of this duct with some few 

 strong longitudinal folds, clothed with a cuticula, and under the same a 

 very fine layer of round and angulated cells with a large round or oval 

 nucleus of the diameter of about 0.4 mm. and a rather large yellow 

 nucleolus (PI. X, fig." 13). In the cavity of the vagina more or less 

 sperma.i The mucous gland yellowish and white ; the central mass 

 (albuminous gland) yellow ; the duct with scattered black pigment on 

 the outside (also on the outside of the lower part of the penis), with 

 the usual fold. The vestibulum genitale with black pigment on the 

 folds, the same pignaent was seen in the lowest part of the cavity of 

 the penis and of the vagina and on the folds of the duct of the mucous 

 gland. 



A very similar animal, but " with brown mantle,'' was dredged by 

 Dall in Kyska Harbor (Aleutians) in July, 1873, on sand, at a depth 

 of nine to fourteen fathoms. 



It was of large size ; the length 21.0 mm., by a breadth of 11.0 and 

 a height of 9.0 mm. ; the margin of the mantle 2.0 mm. broad, the foot 

 6.0 mm. broad ; the height of the rhinophoria and of the gill 3 mm. ; 

 the genital aperture 3.0 mm. broad. The color dirty brown on the 

 upper side ; the rhinophoria and the branchial leaves yellowish, dotted 

 with grayish, especially on the stalk of the rhinophoria ; the sole of 

 the foot yellowish, the under side of the animal whitish ; the under 

 side everywhere with an enormous quantity of gray and black dots. 

 The number of branchial leaves nine. 



The peritoneum black-brown ; the central nervous system, eyes, 

 otocysts, as previously described. The bulbus pharyngeus of the 

 length of 4.5 mm. by a breadth of 3.0 and a height (with the crop) 

 of 4-T5 mm. ; the sheath of the radula projecting 1.25 mm. ; the crop 

 alone of the height of 2.3 mm. and 3.25 mm. broad. The lip-disk as 

 above, the thickenings in the lowest part of the mouth 1.2 mm. long, 

 of which nearly half freely projected. On the tongue nine rows of 



' The length of the spermatoduct and the duct of the spermatotheca 

 (vagina) was much more considerable than in the typical form. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



plates, farther backwards eighteen developed and three younger rows, 

 the total number thirty; the plates denticulated as previously men- 

 tioned, the height of the large plates rising to 0,7 mm. ; the number 

 of external plates four to five. The oesophageal diverticle of a largest 

 diameter of about 3.0 mm. The pars pylorica of the intestine of about 

 4.5 mm. length, with higher folds than in the rest of the intestine, which 

 had a length of about 15.0 mm. ; the bag at the first part of the intes- 

 tine 1.5 mm. long. The liver 12.0 mm. long by a breadth of 8.0 and a 

 height of 6.0 mm. The sanguineous glands whitish, 5.0 mm. long by 

 a breadth of 6.0 mm. and 2.0 mm. thick, convexo-concave, the fore-end 

 flattened (by the buccal crop), the hinder end with two transverse fur- 

 rows (produced by two coils of the spermatoduct ; the anterior genital 

 mass 8.0 mm. long by a breadth of 3.5 and a height of 7.5 mm. The 

 ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct 5.0 mm. long, whitish. The coils 

 of the spermatoduct and of the vagina in this individual covering the 

 upper side of the mucous gland, and ascending to the back between 

 the pharyngeal bulbus and the liver ; a coil of the former embraced 

 the sheath of the radula. The first part of the spermatoduct 12.0 mm. 

 long, the last of the length of about 25.0 mm ; the penis about 3.5 mm. 

 long, the armature as usual. The spermatotheca nearly spherical, of 

 3.5 mm. diameter ; the spermatocysta yellowish, round, with a diameter 

 of 1.5 mm. ; the chief duct (vagina) 33.0 mm. long with a general 

 diameter of 1.2 mm. ; the structure of the wall as above ; the last, nar- 

 rower part (from the m. retractor downwards), 5.0 mm. long. 'J he 

 vestibulum, as well as the inferior part of the vagina and of the penis, 

 with very scanty black pigment. 



4. Acanthodoris caerulescens, Bgh., n. sp. Plate XIII, fig. 6-7 ; Plato XIV, fig. 16. 



Color paginas superioris corporis caerulescens. 



Dentes radulae hamo per totam fere longitudinem deuticulato. 



Hah. Mare Beringianum (Nunivak Island). 



One specimen of this species was found by Dall at the north end of 

 Nunivak Island, Bering Sea, in July, 1874, on stony bottom, at the, 

 depth of eight fathoms. 



According to Dall, the color of the living animal was bluish. The 

 animal preserved in alcohol had the length of 14.0 mm. by a height of 

 5.0 and a breadth of 8.0 mm. ; the length of the foot was 12.5 mm. by 

 a breadth of 6.5 mm. ; the height of the rhinophoria 2.0, of the bran- 

 chial leaves 1.5 ram. The color uniformly yellowish-white, with the 

 back of a slightly bluiah hue. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The form elongate-oval. The back covered all over with irregular 

 (the greatest height reaching about 1.5 mm.), conical, rather soft and 

 flexible papillte, in general larger than in the typical species. The 

 margin of the rhinophor-holes thin, somewhat prominent, with two 

 anterior strong tubercles and a posterior much smaller one ; the stalk 

 of the club rather low, the latter with about twenty-five to thirty leaves. 

 The branchia consisting of nine to ten leaves, the adjacent border set 

 with several strong tubercles ; the branchial leaves quite isolated at 

 their base, apparently simply pinnate. The anus prominent, before 

 the same a small tubercle, behind it a much larger one. The margin 

 of the mantle rather thin, on the upper side covered with a mass of 

 smaller and larger papillse and tubercles, the under side smooth. The 

 head broad, flat, with prominent rounded, flattened tentacula. The 

 foot broad, rounded behind. 



The central nervous system as in the typical species ; the buccal 

 ganglia rounded, the commissure between them very short. The eyes 

 with black pigment and yellow lens. The otocysts a little smaller 

 than the eyes, with numerous otokonia of the usual form, and reaching 

 a length of 0.03 mm. The leaves of the rhinophoria without spicula ; 

 in the axes of the organs large, molecularly calcified cells and groups 

 of smaller calcified cells. In the papillae of the skin of the back were 

 no spicula at all, on their surface the usual large quantity of glandular 

 cells ; in the skin beneath the papillte cells and groups of cells as in the 

 case of the rhinophoria. 



The mouth-tube rather wide, with strong cuticula. The bulbus 

 pharyngeus formed apparently as in the typical species ; the lip-plate 

 composed of many rows of rather low (the height rising to about 

 0.02 mm.), very (fig. 6) finely striated columns. The tongue with ten 

 rows of teeth ; further back, twenty-six developed and three undevel- 

 oped rows ; the total number thus thirty-nine. The lateral plates 

 large, yellow, of usual form, with a series of denticles along nearly 

 the whole of the inner margin of the hook (fig. 16a). The external 

 plates colorless, eight in number; somewhat depressed (fig. 7, 16), 

 obKquely rising from the cuticula of the tongue (fig. 7), of nearly equal 

 size excepting the outermost (fig. 16&), which is much smaller. 



The salivary glands seemed of the usual form. The oesophagus and 

 the stomach as usual. The intestine issuing from the liver at the 

 middle of its length on the left side, rather short. The liver of the 

 length of about 9.0 mm. by a breadth and a height of about 4.2 mm. ; 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



the right anterior half excavated (on account of the anterior genita 

 mass) ; the color brownish-gray. 



The heart and the sanguineous gland as usual, also the renal cham- 

 ber and the renal syrinx. 



The hermaphroditic gland by its yellowish color contrasting with 

 the liver, clothing the under side, part of the left side, and its right 

 anterior half. The anterior genital mass rather compressed, about 

 6.0 mm. long by a breadth of 2.0 mm. The ampulla of the hermaphro- 

 ditic duct rather short, sausage-shaped, about 2.3 mm. long, curved 

 and whitish. The larger part of the penis was gone, but hooks were 

 seen in the remaining part as in the typical species. The sperma 

 totheca rather large, bag-shaped, about 3.5 mm. long ; the vagina 

 rather wide, about 10.0 ram. long. The mucous gland white, and the 

 albuminous gland yello wish- white. ^ 



This species seems very distinct from the typical one, by its color 

 and by the different form of denticulation of the large plates of the 



tongue. 



POLYCERATID^. 



This large family, so rich in generic forms, was found represented 

 in the northern Pacific only by two generic types, Polycera and 

 Iriopha. 



POLYCERA, Cuvier. 



Polycera. Cuvier, (1812?), Regne-anitn., 1817, ii, p. 390.^ Regne-anim., 



ed. 2, ill, p. 52. 

 Themisto, Oken, Lehrb. der Zool., 1815, p. 278. 

 Cufaa, Leach, Moll. Britann. Synopsis, 1852, p. 21. 

 Polycera C, Aid. and Hanc, Observ. on the genus Polycera, Ann. Mag. 



of Nat. Hist., vi, 1841, p. 337-342, PI. IX. 

 Limacia, O. Fr. Miiller, Zool. Dan., i, 1781, p. 65-68.^ 

 Phanerobranchus, A. Fredol (Moquin-Tandon), Le monde de la mer, 1864, 



PI. xii, figs. 1, 2. 



* The anterior genital mass was so hardened and altered, tliat the nature 

 of its different components could not be determined with certainty. 



2 According to a note of Hermaunsen, under the genus Themisto, Oken, 

 (Ind. Gen. Malacoz, primordia, ii, 1849, p. 572), the genus Polycera was 

 established by Cuvier, 1812, [but this is probably a typographical error, 

 since, under the genus Polycera itself, he indicates only the year 1817 — 

 Dall,] (cf., 1. c, p. 314). 



' Limacia, Hartm., Neue Alpina, i, 1821, p. 208 [Arion, Fer.). 

 8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Limbus frontalis digitatus vel tuberculatus. Branchia S-Y-foliata. 

 Appendices dorsales (extrabranchiales) 1-3. Tentacula brevia, lobi- 

 formia. 



Lamelhe mandibulares laterales forte?, sat applanataj. Radula 

 rhachide nuda ; pleuris dentibus lateralibus hamatis duobus (margine 

 Isevi), interne minore, externo majore, et dentibus externus 4-8. 



Prostata magna ; pleuris ut in omnibus Polyceratis. 



The genus Polycera was established by Cuvier (1812 ?), to receive 

 the Doris quadrilineata of Miiller and (in 1830) allied forms ; a few 

 years afterwards (1815), and not knowing the genus of Cuvier, Oken 

 formed his Themisto, nearly identical with the Polycera of Cuvier.* 

 The Gufeea of Leach (1852), is entirety congeneric with the genera 

 of Cuvier and Oken, as is also very likely the Phanerobranchus of 

 A. Fredol (Moquin-Tandon). The Limacia of 0. Fr. Muller (1781), 

 contains a whole series of different Nudibranchiata, among them the 

 D. quadrilineata, and, as first-named species, the D. verrucosa; the 

 name cannot therefore be employed here. 



Although, tlirough Cuvier and Alder (1841), their external char- 

 acters were somewhat made known, still Polycera, like so many 

 other Nudibranchiata, remained very superficially known, until the 

 laro-e monograph of Alder and Hancock, ^ that first really unveiled 

 their external and internal structure, although Frey and Leuckarf'' 

 had given some anatomical notices of these animals. Lately more 

 light has been spread over the northern species of the group, through 

 the investigations of Meyer and Moebius,^ and of G. O. Sars.* 



The true Polycera shows a form of body common to the whole 

 family. The well-developed frontal margin is more or less curved in 



* A careful search has failed to find any other ground for supposing that 

 Cuvier described the genus Polycera in 1812, or at any date before 1817, so 

 that the 1812 of Hermaunsen is almost certainly merely a misprint. The 

 name Themisto, of Oken, if congeneric, should therefore take precedence. 

 — Dall. 



1 Alder and Hancock, Monogr. Brit. Nudibr. Moll., Part 2, 1846, fam. 1, 

 PI. 23 ; Part 4, 1848, fam. 1, PI. 24 ; Part 5, 1851, fam. 1, PI. 22 ; Part 6, 

 1854, fam. 1, PI. 17 (anat. !) ; Part 7, 1855, PI. 46 supplem. figs. 20, 21. 



'^ Frey and Leuckart, Beitr. zur Kenntn. wirbellose Thiere, 1847, p. 66- 



70, taf. i, fig. 1§, 13. 



3 Meyer and Moebius, Fauna der Kieler Bucht, i, 1865, p. 49-57, m. 2 

 taf. uud taf. iv. A, B. 



* G. 0. Sars, Moll. reg. arct. Norv., 1878, p. 312, 813, Tab. xiv, fig. 14-16. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



the middle, with its free margin tuberculated or digitate. The frontal 

 veil is continued in a more or less tuberculated ridge, that limits the true 

 back, and posteriorly ends in a single strong or in several smaller 

 dorsal (branchial) appendices on the outside of and behind the region 

 of the gill. The true back with longitudinal rows of more or less 

 developed connected tubercles, sometimes forming low longitudinal 

 ridges. The number of leaves in the club of the rhinophoria is not 

 large. The gill is composed of a moderate number (five to seven) of 

 leaves, which are either simply pinnate or composite (bi- or tripinnate). 

 The tentacles are small, flattened or auriculate. The jaws or man- 

 dibular plates in form somewhat recall those of the u^olidiidce, strong, 

 flattened, sometimes with a peculiar superior process. The rhachis of 

 the radula naked ; on the pleura? two large hook-formed lateral teeth, 

 of which the outer is much larger than the inner ; at the outside of 

 the laterals are four to eight, somewhat flattened uncina^. A large 

 prostate gives the genital apparatus a particular feature ; the arma- 

 ture of the penis is of the usual kind. 



About the biological relations of Polycera very little is known, as 

 usual among the Nudibranchiata. The spawn of the most common 

 northern species is known, and a part of the developmental history 

 has been investigated by Ray Lankester.' 



A small number of species have been described by different authors 

 in the course of years. Alder and Hancock (Monogr. part T, 1855, 

 p. 45, XVIII) established and rather well characterized two groups 

 of Polycera ; according to these authors Gray soon after (Guide I, 

 1857, p. 213) denominated these groups Polycera (typical) and Palio, 

 which perhaps might be conserved as subgenera. 



L POLYCERA (stricte). 



Marge limbi frontalis digitatus. Folia branchialia simpliciter pin- 

 nata ; appendices dorsales (branchiales) singula? majores. 

 Lamellae mandibulares processu superiori aliBformi. 



1. F. quadrilineata (O. F. Miiller). M. Atlanticum ; Mediterraneum. 



2. P. horrida, Hesse. Joum. de Conchyliol.,3 S., XIII, 4, 1873, p. 345. M. 



Atlanticum. 



' Ray Lankester, Contrib. to the Developm. hist, of Moll., Philos. 

 Trans., MDCCCLXXV, p. 29, PI. 10, f. 1-9. 



Meyer and Moebius have, moreover, given a figure of the shell of the 

 embryo of their Pol. ocellata (1. c, fig. 10 j. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



3. P. plebeia, Loven. Index Moll., 1846, p. 6.^ M. Atlanticum. 



4. P. doriformis (Quatref.). Phanerobrancbe doriforme. Moquin-Tandon 



(pseud. A. Fredol) Le monde de la mer., 1864, PI. XII, fig. 1. M. 

 Mediterraneum. 



5. P. eanteriata (Quatref.) Phanerobrancbe a chevrons. Moquin-Tandon 



(do) 1. c, pi. XII, f. 2. M. Mediterraneum. 



II. PALIO, Gray. 



Marge limbi frontalis tuberculatus. Folia branchialia bi- vel tri- 

 pinnata ; appendices dorsales (branchiales) niinores, complures. 

 Lamellae mandibulares simplices (sine processu superiori). 



6. P. Lessonii (d'Orb.). Pol. ocellata, A. et H. M. Atlanticum. 



7. P. pudica, Loven. Ind. Moll., 1846, p. 6. M. Atlanticum. 



8. P. pallida. Bgh.. n. sp. M. Pacificum. 



9. P. diibia, Sars. Bidr, til Soedyrenes. Naturh., 1829, p. 13. Tab. 3, 



fig. 5, 6. Loven, Ind. Moll., 1846, p. 6. M. Atlanticum sept. 



10. P. ? Cookii, Angas. Journ. de Conchyl., 3 S., IV, 1, 1864, p. 58 ; PI. V, 



f . 6. M. Pacificum. 



11. P. ? Capensis, Quoy et Gaim. Voy. de I'Uranie. Zool., 1824, p. 417 ; 



PI. 66, f. 4. M. Capense.2 



P. pallida, Bgh., n. sp. Plate XV, fig. 14 ; Plate XVI, fig. 1-9. 



Color flavescens. Branchia sexfoliata. 



Lamellie mandibulares fere ut in FoL Lessonii, sed magis elongatae. 

 Armatura lingualis fere ut in Pol. Lessonii; denies externi 5. 

 JIab. Oc. Pacificum septentr. 



Of this form Dall dredged a single individual in June, 18t3, at 

 Kyska Harbor (Aleutians), at the depth of ten fathoms on rocky 

 bottom. According to Dall, the color of the living animal was " yel- 

 lowish-white." 



The length of the animal preserved in spirits was 7.0 mm., with a 

 height of 4.0 and a breadth of 3.0 mm. ; the height of the branchial 

 leaves about 1.0 mm., also that of the rhinophoria ; the breadth of the 



1 "Viridifusca, sulpliureo maculata, papillis frontis 10, brancliiali 

 utrinque una postica majore ; 11 mm. Bohus," Loven. 



This, as well as the other new Polycera of Loven, has not since been 

 seen (Cf. G. O. Sars, Moll. reg. arct. Norv., 1878, p. 313). 



2 Of the three (not too naturally represented) "Polycerse " of A. Fredol 

 (Moquin-Tandon), the one (1. c. PI. XII, fig. 6) seems to be the Pel. 

 Lessonii, the other two (fig. 3, 4) belong undoubtedly to the genus 

 Thecacera. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 109 



foot 2.0 mm. The color of the animal whitish, that of the rhinophoria 

 and the branchial leaves more yellow ; the margin of the foot white. 



'The form as usual. The head rounded, with a prominence on the 

 upper lateral part ; the mouth a vertical slit. The margin of the 

 rhinophor-grooves plain. The stalk of the rhinophoria nearly as high 

 as the club, cylindrical ; the club rather flattened, with about fifteen 

 leaves; before the rhinophoria a low transverse frontal veil with 

 scarcely more than two prominences ; the veil continued backwards as 

 a rather indistinct prominent line on each side of the smooth rounded 

 back ; the pericardial region a little prominent ; behind the middle of 

 the length of the back, the gill with six tripinnate leaves in a slight 

 curve ; behind them the quite low anal nipple, and towards the right 

 side the renal pore ; behind the gill a little flattened space with a slight 

 crest on each side with three papilliB. The sides of the body rather 

 high. In the region of the anterior angles of the foot the genital 

 papilla with the everted penis (without its recurved point, 0.75 mm. 

 high), and below it a folded lamella, the duct of the mucous gland. The 

 foot rather narrow, of nearly the same breadth ; the rounded anterior 

 angles somewhat prominent ; a fine furrow in the anterior margin. 



The intestines indistinctly appearing through the walls of the body. 

 The peritoneum colorless, nearly without spicula. 



The central nervous system (fig. 1) very depressed; the cerebral 

 ganglia of rounded-triangular form, a little larger than the more 

 rounded visceral (fig. la); the pedal ones more pyriforra, a little 

 larger than the last ; the (proximal) olfactory ganglia bulbifonn, not 

 quite as large as the buccal ones, which were (fig. lb) of rounded form, 

 connected by a not very short commissure ; the gastro-oesophageal 

 ganglia of about one-eighth of the size of the former, rounded.^ The 

 three inferior ( subcerebral, visceral, and pedal) commissures (or at 

 least the visceral one) free. 



The eyes (fig. 1) short-stalked, with black pigment and pale yellowish 

 lens. The otocysts (fig. 1 ) in their usual place, very short-stalked, 

 with about eighty otokonia of the ordinary kind. In the stalk of the 

 rhinophoria some scattered yellowish thick spicula, of the same kind 

 as in the skin of the back ; none, on the contrary, in the leaves of the 

 club. In the skin some scattered, yellowish, thick, straight or curved 

 spicula, mostly of about 0.15-0.3 mm. in length, and of the usual 

 form. In the interstitial tissue very few larger spicula. 



^ In the other species of Polycera I have examined, I never saw gastro- 

 CBSophageal ganglia, nor any in Ewplocamui or iu Plocamopherus . 




no PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880 



The oral tube whitish, of about 1.0 mm. length, wide. The bulbus 

 pharyngeus clear brownish-yellow, somewhat pyriform, with oblique 

 flattened posterior end, in length about 1.6, by a height of nearly 1.3, 

 and a breadth of 1.5 mm. ; the sheath of the radula a little prominent 

 downwards, and to the left from the hindermost part of the under side of 

 the bulbus. The lip-disk clothed with a brownish-yellow cuticula, that 

 is continued into the two mandibular plates behind the lip-disk at the 

 entrance of the oral cavity, the form of the mandible could not be 

 determined with certainty ; a yellowish cuticula clothes the rest of the 

 cavity. The tongue with ten rows of plates, further backwards six 

 developed and two younger rows ; the total number eighteen.^ The 

 rhachis (fig. 2) not very narrow. The plates yellow. The length of 

 the first plate about 0.11, of the second 0.20, of the inmost of the ex- 

 ternal plates 0.14, of the following 0.12, 0.10, 08 and 0.06 mm. (all 

 from the hinder part of the sheath). The first lateral plate (fig. '■laa^ 

 5, 6) formed somewhat as in the P. Lessouii, the hook still smaller ; 

 the second of the same form, but larger (fig. 2&i, 3), the hooks much 

 larger, especially the anterior, which is broader and excavated (fig. T). 

 More outwards five external plates (fig. 2cc), all with a crest, which is 

 larger in the two innermost ; adjoining the outermost of these plates 

 several longitudinal folds of the lingual cuticula, which sometimes 

 simulate one to two plates more (fig. 2). 



The salivary glands whitish, elongate. The oesophagus rather wide, 

 the stomach inclosed in the liver. The intestine appearing at the 

 middle of the length of the liver a little to the left, at the bottom of a 

 deep and large cavity in the upper side of the liver ; the pyloric part 



' According to Alder and Hancock (Monog. Part VII, 1855, PI, 41 sup- 

 plement, fig. 20, 21), the number of rows was fifteen in the Polycera qnad- 

 rilineata, sixteen in tlie P. ocellata. thirteen in the P. Lessonii ; Alder and 

 Hancock saw (1. c.) four external plates in the Pol. quadrilineata, five in 

 P. ocellata, and six in P. Lessonii. Meyer and Moebius saw five to seven 

 external plates in their Polycera ocellata, whilst the number of rows (1. c. 

 PI. 50) is noted as thirteen to fifteen ; in the P. quadrilineata they found 

 four to five external plates and twelve to thii-teen rows. In four specimens 

 of Pol. quadrilineata I saw six to eight rows on the tongue, more back- 

 wards six to seven developed, and one not quite developed row ; the total 

 number of rows was fourteen to fifteen. In all specimens there were but 

 four external plates. In four specimens of Pol. Lessonii I saw nine to ten 

 rows on the tongue, more backwards eight to seven or five developed, 

 and a single not developed row; the total number of rows was sixteen to 

 eighteen. In all the specimens there were eight external plates. 




1880.] ' NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



of the intestine rather wide, its curve reaching to the bulbus pharyn- 

 geus. The liver about 5.0 mm. long by a breadth of 3.5 and a height 

 of 3.25 mm. ; the form conical, the posterior end rounded, the anterior 

 much broader, flattened and adjoining another flattening on the infe- 

 rior part of the right side of the organ ; the color was yellowish. 



The sanguineous gland of quadrangular form, of a diameter of about 

 1.5 mm., whitish. 



The hermaphroditic gland with its yellowish-white lobes covering 

 nearly the whole surface of the liver : in the lobes large oJgene cells. 

 The anterior genital mass of the length of about 4.0 mm. by a height 

 of 3.0 and a breadth of 1.5 mm. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic 

 dact resting on the inferior margin of the genital mass, whitish, 

 straight, of the length of 3.0 mm by a diameter of about 0.5 mm. 

 At the anterior end of the ampulla a flattened body (prostate) that 

 freely projects before the anterior margin of the rest of the genital 

 mass ; it was of about the same length as the ampulla, but nearly twice 

 as broad ; the cavity of the organ rather large and the walls rather 

 thin. The prostate slopes gradually into the thin but strong spermato- 

 duct, which is about 6.0 mm. long and terminates in the penis, which 

 was short, conical (fig. 8«, 9), about 0.75 mm. long, and terminated 

 in a somewhat flexible, yellowish glans (fig. 8, 9, 14), of the length of 

 about 0.37 mm. by a diameter at the base of about 0.09, and at the 

 point of 0.037 mm.; through the largest part of its length it was 

 covered with (in all about twelve) series of small chitinized crests, 

 which did not surpass the height of about 0.0025 mm. (fig. 14 i; the 

 armature only continued through a short part of the interior of the 

 spermatoduct. The spermatotheca spherical ; the spermatocysta pyri- 

 form, filled with sperma. The cordate mucous gland whitish and 

 yellowish-white (fig. 8b). 



This species approaches to the Pol. Lessonn, but seems even dif- 

 ferent in color from that and the other Atlantic forms, and also differs 

 in the slight development of the frontal veil and of the lateral crests of 

 the back, as well as in the number of the external plates of tongue, 

 and' in the nature of the armature of the penis. 



* The armature of the penis of Polyc. quadrilineata (hitherto the only 

 species in which an armature has been described) as figured by Friele and 

 Hansen (1. c. Tab. II, fig. 3) is very different from that of the Pacific spe- 

 cies, and that difference has been confirmed by my examination of typical 

 specimens. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



TEIOPHA, Bergh, n. gen. 



Forma corporis fere ut in Triopis, sicut quoque margo fronta- 

 lis ; margo dorsalis appendicibus nonnullis nodosis vel breve 

 ramosis. Tentacula eompresso-poculiformes (auriformia) ; rhino- 

 phoria retractilia, clavo perfoliato. Branchia quinqnefoliata, 

 foliis tripinnatis. 



Os lamellis dnabus fortioribus e baculis rainutis eompositis 

 armatum. Lingua rbachide dentibus spuriis (4); pleuris denti- 

 bus lateralibus 3-4 (corpore processu alaiformi et hamo ap- 

 planato instractis) et serie dentium externorum (10-11) armatis. 



Prostata ? 



This interesting form, that forms a link between Polycera 

 and Triopa on one side, and the Euplocami on the other, ap- 

 proaches more nearly to the latter than to the former. 



In the exterior, the Trioph(E^ resemble the Trio'pce^ but still 

 differ in some points sufflcienth'. The appendices of the back 

 are more composite ; the tentacles seem different from those of 

 the Triop<e (which have them folded lengthwise and obtuse at 

 the end; see for comparison, PL XV, fig. 12); they are com- 

 pressed cup-shaped or auriculate. The gill contains five leaves. 

 Whilst the Triojoce want an armature of the true mouth, ^ the 

 Triojphce are provided with two strong plates (composed of 

 densely set staffs). Whilst the rhachis of the tongue in the 

 TriopcB is naked, the Trio2:)hce show four false plates, ("bosses" of 

 Dall, simple thickenings of the base membrane of the radula), 

 here ; instead of the two peculiarly formed lateral plates on the 

 pleural in the Triopa^ the Triophm have three or four lateral 

 plates (with a wing-like process of the bod}^ and a depressed 

 hook) ; with, on the outside of these, a series of (ten to eleven) 

 uncinal plates, nearly as in the Triopce. After all, the Triophce 

 are closely allied to the Colgce^* and essentiall}^ differ from these 



^ Having at first and rather superficially examined the exterior, I first 

 regarded the animal as a Triopa, and called it so [s. part I, p. 138 (73), 

 and the Plates (XIV, XV)]. 



^ See for comparison PI. XIII, fig. 19. 



^ See for comparison PI. XIV, fig. 31, 22. 



* The diagnosis of the Colgce would be : 



Forma corporis fere ut in Triopis. Vaginae rhinophoriales calyciformes 

 obliquse ; rhinophoria retractilia, clavo perfoliato. Tentacula auriformia. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



only in the armature of the tongue, which in the Oolgce exhibits 

 only a single series of (false) rhachidian plates and (on each 

 side) two lateral plates in form approaching those of Polycei-a. 

 The nature of the prostate is unknown ; the armature of the 

 penis not differing much from that ordinary in the large group of 

 the PohjceratidcB. 



Although somewhat approaching to the Euplocami in the form 

 of the appendices of the back, in the armature of the true mouth 

 and of tlie pleura of the tongue, the Triophce still cntirel}^ differ 

 in the form of the tentacles, in the number of the branchial 

 leaves and very likely in the nature of the prostate. 



The Trioph(E have hitherto been only found in the Pacific 

 Ocean. 



1. Tr. modesta, Bgh. n. sp. Oc. Pacificum. 



2. Tr. Carpenteri, Stearns. Proc. of the Cal. Acad, of Sci., April 7, 1873, 



p. 2, fig. 2. Oc . Pacificum (California). 



Tr. modesta, Bgh. n. sp. PI. XIV. fig. 17-20; PI. XV, fig. 1-10. 

 f Triopa Carpenteri, Stearns. L c. p. 2, fig. 2, 



Color e flavido albescens. Appendices dorsales paucpe ; folia 

 branchialia 5. 



Hah. Oc. Pacif. septentr. 



Of this form Dall has obtained a single individual at Yukon 

 Harbor (Shumagins), in August, 1874, at a depth of six to 

 twenty fathoms, on a bottom of sand and stones. The color of 

 the living animal was, according to Dall, " yellowish-white." 



The animal preserved in spirits was of whitish color ; the 

 dorsal appendices, the gill and the rhinophoria more yellowish. 

 The length of the animal 16.0 mm., b}^ a height of 7.0 and a 



Dorsum papilligerum, prsesertim margo frontalis et dorsalis. Branchia 

 pauci (4-5 I foliata, 



Mandibulse triangulares, fortes. Radula fere ut in Polyceratis, dentibus 

 lateralibus (3) et externis (7), sed prseterea dentibus medianis (spuriis) 

 instinicta. 



Mei-ely one species of the genus is yet known, one of the first described 

 Nudibranchiata, the Doris lacera of Abildgaard (Zool. Dan., IV, 1806, 

 p. 23, Tab. CXXXVIII, fig. 3, 4), which has been found too on the coast 

 of America (Cf. Verrill, notice of recent addit. to the Mar. Fauna of 

 North Am., XXXVIII. Amer. Jour, of Sc. and Arts, XVI, 1878, p. 211). 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



breadth of 5.5 mm. ; the height of the branchial leaves 1.25, of 

 the rhinophoria 2.0 mm. ; the breadth of the foot 3.5 mm. 



The form as usual. The head flattened in front, semilunar; 

 the tentacles compressed-cup-shaped, rather short (about 1.0 mm. 

 long), truncated at the end, longitudinall,y folded and open at 

 the outer side. The frontal margin not projecting much, with 

 many smaller and larger short digitations and crenulatious ; in 

 front in the median line were two small conical papillse before 

 the region of the rhinophoria. The margin of the rhinophor- 

 holes somcAvhat projecting, smooth : the (deeply retracted) rhino- 

 phoria with rather short stalk ; the club with thirty-five to forty 

 rather broad and thin leaves. 



The back rounded over from side to side, without certain limits 

 l)etween it and the sides of the body. At the lateral parts 

 of the back (on each side) five appendices ; the first standing a 

 little behind the end of the frontal margin; the next about in 

 the middle of the space between the first and third ; this last a 

 little before the region of the gill ; farther backwards were also 

 two similar ones. The appendices were club-shaped, with simple 

 or composite nodosities spread upon their bodies, and especially 

 at their bases ; the third was the largest, reaching the height of 

 about 2.5 mm.; all the others a little smaller, and all of about 

 the same size. Much smaller, conical or club-formed simple 

 pfipilloB were scantily and irregularly scattered on the back. The 

 gill consisting of five strong, tripinnate, quite separate leaves, a 

 single anterior and two lateral pairs. The anal nipjDle nearly 

 in the centre of the posteriorly open branchial circle, a blunted, 

 nearly cylindrical prominence, about 0.5 mm. in height ; at its 

 base on the right side and a little forwards was the very distinct 

 renal pore. The sides of the body rather high and smooth ; the 

 genital bpening a short longitudinal slit lying rather forwards, 

 with two openings at its bottom. The foot not very narrow, of 

 nearly the same breadth throughout its whole length ; the anterior 

 border emarginated in the middle, with a fine line. 



The intestines did not shine through the integuments. The 

 peritoneum was colorless, without spieula. 



, The central nervous system (PI. XV, fig. 1) flattened ; the 

 cerebro-visceral ganglia (fig. la) reniforra, a little narrower at 

 the fore-end ; the pedal ones (fig. Ibb) rounded, scarcely larger 

 than the visceral ; the large commissure (fig. 1) as usual ; small 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



optic ganglia (fig. 1). The proximal olfactoiy ganglia (fig. Ic) 

 bulbiforra, the n. olfactorii not very long; the distal olfactory 

 ganglia inverse pyriform. The buccal ganglia (fig. Idd) ovoid, 

 connected nearly without commissure ; the gastro-oesophageal 

 ganglia small (fig. le), with one large cell. 



The eyes (fig. 1) with coal-black pigment and yellow lens.^ 

 The otocysts at the usual place on the under side of the cerebro- 

 visceral ganglionic mass, crowded with otokonia of the usual 

 kind (fig. 1). In the leaves of the rhinophoria no spicula ; in 

 the axes and in the stalk, on the contrary, spicula of the same 

 kind as in the skin or often larger. The skin with few and 

 small spicula and calcified rounded cells, here and there lying in 

 groups. The marginal dorsal appendices covered all over with 

 above-mentioned nodosities ; at their points perhaps a similar 

 (but empty) bag as in the typical species (Cf. PI. XIII, fig. 16, 17). 



The anal tube large, 3.0 mm. long. The bulbus pharyngeus 

 strong, of the length of 4.0 by a height of 3.0 and a breadth of 

 3.3 mm. ; the radula-sheath projecting about 1.0 mm. from the 

 hinder part of the under side of the bulbus. The lip-disk rather 

 convex, with vertical oral slit (PI. XY, fig. 2), clothed with a 

 pale 3'ellow cuticula, that behind the oral slit on each side is con- 

 tinued in a triangular, brownish-yellow lip-plate of a greatest 

 breadth of 1.0 ram (fig. 3), narrow at the inferior end, broader 

 at the supei'ior, and composed of simple, somewhat curved, erect 

 stag's (fig. 4, 5) about 0.18 mm. in height (fig. 4). The tongue 

 broad ; in the amber-yellow radula, thirteen rows of plates, 

 further backwards in the sheath, six developed and two younger 

 rows ; the total number thus twenty-one. The three foremost 

 rows of the tongue very incomplete, reduced to the outermost 

 (four to five, six to seven, nine to eleven) uncinal plates. The 

 rhachis rather broad, bearing two quadrangular thickenings of 

 the cuticula (PI. XV, fig. 6a) of the length of about 0.18-0.2 

 mm.-, more thickened and jellowish in the anterior margin, otlier- 

 wise colorless. At the outer side of these median plates is a 

 somewhat shorter and narrower plate (fig. 6&6), of yellowish 

 color ; in the posterior rows (PI. XIV, fig. 20) much broader. 

 The three succeeding plates brownish-j-ellow, hook-shaped, all 

 nearly of the same form and of the same but outwardly slowly 



' Alder and Hancock (1. c. part VI) also saw small optic gauglia in the 

 Triopa clavigera. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



decreasing size (PI. XY, fig. Gcd) ; the fourth lateral plate, on 

 the tongue especially, with a small hook (fig. 7a) that is more 

 developed backwards, and in the four youngest rows is developed 

 quite (PI. XI Y, fig. IT) as in the three plates mentioned. On the 

 lateral parts of the pleuroe ten to eleven external (uncinal) plates, 

 the four to five interior (fig. 7, 8a6, 10 ; llbc) with a more devel- 

 oped crest, the rest (fig. lb) narrower. 



The salivary glands (PI. XY, fig. 11a) nearly as long as the 

 duct (fig. 116) ; both together about 5. ,5 mm. long, descending 

 along the whole back side of the bulbus pharyngeus ; the gland 

 whitish, smooth. 



The oesophagus rather long (6.5 mm.), and Avide especially 

 in the posterior part (diameter 2.0 mm.), entering into the inferior 

 part of the liver ; with rather strong and numerous folds ; the 

 contents (as in the intestine) spongiary masses and different Ba- 

 diolarise of a diameter of 0.09 mm. The intestine issuinaf from the 

 liver a little before the middle of the upper side of this organ ; 

 the anteriorly proceeding part reaching the anterior margin of 

 the liver and about 4.5 mm. long by a diameter of 1.5 mm. ; the 

 retrocessive part Y.O mm. long by a diameter of 0.75 mm. The 

 liver divided b}'^ a deep furrow from the right margin into two 

 halves of nearly equal size; 6.0 mm. long by a breadth of 3.75 

 and a height of 3.4 mm. ; the posterior extremity rounded ; the 

 anterior half of the inferior side obliquely flattened ; the color 

 yellowish-gray ; the cavity of the interior rather small. 



The pericardium of oval form, large, having the length of 

 3.5 mm. The sanguineous gland whitish, of the length of 2.5 mm. 

 by a breadth (at the anterior end) of 2.5 mm. The renal syrinx 

 short-pyriform ; the tube of the organ strong. 



The hermaphroditic gland not much developed, paler than 

 the liver, with large oogene cells. The anterior genital mass 

 small, about 1.5 mm. long by a height of 0.75 and a breadth of 

 about 0.5 mm. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct yellow- 

 ish, rather long, forming corkscrew-like windings. The sperma- 

 toduct not long, passing into the short penis. This, with its 

 armature of very minute hooks, the spermatotheca, the spermato- 

 cysta and the vagina, as far as could be determined, as in the 

 typical Triopa} The gland whitish. 



' See for comparison, PI. XY, fig. 13. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



This species ma}' perhaps be the Triopa Garpenteri of Stearns ; 

 it has, like that, five branchial leaves, and does not differ much in 

 the number of the dorsal appendices (six) or the form of the 

 frontal margin ; but the dorsal nodosities of the last species are 

 orange-colored, and the rhinophoria, the dorsal appendices, and 

 the branchial leaves tipped with orange. Through the great 

 kindness of Mr. Dall I have seen a drawing of the animal of 

 Stearns, from specimens secured after those he had described, 

 but they do not give more details than the original description ; 

 and Stearns seems not to possess the original specimens, which 

 very likely are lost forever. On the other side, it must be remem- 

 bered that Sars (Beretn. om en i Sommeren, 1849, forctagen 

 zoolog. Reise i Lofoten og Finmarken, 1851, p. T4) found "the 

 young individuals of Triopa lacera (M.) entirely white, also on 

 the tentacles and gills, merely the liver shines brownish through 

 the skin." 



EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 



An asterisk denotes that the drawing is by camera lucida, the 

 fraction denotes the magnification. 



The serial numbers of the plates (Part I, plates i-viii, Part II, 

 plates ix-xvi) are solel}- referred to throughout the text. As 

 Part II appears in another volume of the Proceedings of the 

 Academy, the plates of Part II have been for that reason renum- 

 bered with a second set of numbers, Plate ix being Plate i, Plate x 

 being Plate ii, etc., in the new volume. The serial numbers re- 

 ferred to in the text, follow the new numbers for Part II in 

 parentheses throughout this explanation. 



Plate I (IX). 



Jorunna Johnstoni (A. and H.), 



1. a, stalk of the (6) gangl. genitale; c, gangl. genit. secunda- 



rium,* ^^. 



2. Granules of the back, stiffened by spicula,* ^f^. 



3. Part of the middle of the radula, with the two innermost 



lateral plates ; a, rhachis,* ^f ^. 

 i. The hook of a plate from the back,* ^s., 




118 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



5. Outer part of two series of plates with 8 plates,* ^f^; aa, 



outermost. 



6. Outer part of another series with 3 plates,* ^^. 



7. a-6, vagina; c, gland, hastatoria; d, opening of the bag of 



the spur; e, spermatoduct ; /, penis,* -\'-. 

 8,9. Spermatotheca ; c, its chief duct; d^ gland, hastatoria ; h. 

 spermatocysta ; e, duct to the mucous gland,* -\^-. 



10. a, Duct of the gland, hastatoria; b, the bag of the spur; c, 



opening of the bag,* ^^-. 



11. a, spermatoduct; &, opening of the bag at the bottom of the 



penis ; in the interior a dart (?),* ^4-- 



Adalaria p7'0xima (A. and H.). 



12. Tubercles of the back. 



13. A part of the rhachis from above; a, median plates; &6, large 



lateral plates,* ^^. 



14. Part of the radula, obliquely, from the side , the hooks of the 



large lateral plates of both sides,* ^f^. 



15. Two series of (9) external plates ; a, the innermost ; b, the 



outermost,* ^f^. 



Adalaria albopapillosa (Dall). 



16. Part of the surface of a tubercle of the back,* ^^. 



Adalaria pacijica, Bergh. 



17. a, median plate ; 6, large lateral plates from the side,* ^^. 



" Lamellidoris muricata (0. Fr. Miiller). 



1 8. The vesica fellea ; a, its duct. 



Plate II (X). 



Adalaria pacifica^ Bergh. 



1. Median pseudo-plate (or boss), from the upper side,* ^^^. 



2. 2. Part of the radula, with series of (5-7) lateral plates ; a-a, 



1-2 complete rows of (15) external plates, and 1-2 incom- 

 plete rows ; 66, innermost plates of the row ; ce, outer- 

 most,* -f-. 



3. Outer part of a row with 9 erect plates ; a, innermost,* ^^^. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



Adalaria virescens, Bergh. 



4. a, esophagus, with its dilatation ; b, salivary gland ; e, its 



duct. 



5. Ganglion penis,"^ ^j-. 



Adalai'ia Loveni (A. and H.). 



6. Median part of the radula from above, with (aa) large lateral 



plates ; 66, innermost part of two rows of external plates, 

 with 1-5 plates,* ^^. 

 1. Large lateral plate, from the side,* ^^^. 



8. Piece of the left part of the radula;* ^f^ a, two median 



pseudo-plates or bosses ; 6, large lateral plates ; c, two in- 

 complete rows, with 6-7 plates. 



Adalaria albopapillosa (Dall). 



9. a, (2) median pseudo-plates ; 66, (2-3) large lateral plates of 



both sides,* ^K 



10. a, (3) median pseudo-plates; 66, (2-4) large lateral plates of 



both sides ; c, innermost part of three (right) rows of ex- 

 ternal plates, with 3-4 plates ; (Z, (left) row of 7 external 

 plates,* ^K 



11. Four outermost plates of a row ; a, outermost,* ^-f-. 



Acanthodoris pilosa (0. Fr. Mtiller). 



12. End of the everted penis ; a, opening,* ^f^. 



13. Epithelium of the vagina,* -f^. , 



Acanthodoris pilosa^ var. albescens (Pacijica). 



14. a, anterior margin of the foot ; 6, edge of the tentacle. 



15. Ganglion genitale from the penis,* if^. 



Plate III (XI). 



Acanthodoris pilosa (Miiller). 



1. Three external plates; a, outermost,* ^f^. 



Acanthodoris pilosa, var. albescens. 



2. The genital opening with its everted margin ; a, the two fore- 



most apertures. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Lamellidoris hilamellata (L.) var. Pacifica. 



3. Part of tlie branchial area with (aa) some branchial leaves ; 66, 



some of the larger surrounding tubercles. In the centre 

 the anal nipple, the renal pore and interbranchial tubercles. 



4. The Slicking crop, from the edge. 



5. The half of the same, from the inside ; a, stalk. 



6. a, spermafotheca ; 6, spermatocysta ; c, duct of the last ; d, 



duct to the mucous gland ; e, vagina. 



7. a, two median pseudo-plates ; 6, a latei'al plate ; cc, three 



external plates,* -^-f^. 



8. External plate from the side,* ^f^. 



9. Two of the foremost lateral plates with blunted end,* -^-|^. 



Lamellidoris muricata (Miiller). 



10. a, Median pseudo-plate shining through the left of the lateral 



plates, 66 ; c, three external plates,* ^f ^. 



11. aa, Basal edge of three lateral plates ; 6, external plates,* ^4^. 



12. a, Glans penis ; 66, praeputium ; e, spermatoduct,* J^f^. 



Lamellidoris varians, Bergh. 



13. Lateral plate from the side,* ^f^. 



14. Median pseudo-plate, from above,* -^f^. 



Adalaria Pacijica, Bergh. 



15. Innermost part of two rows of external plates,* -f-; a, two 



innermost; 6, the third failing (in the anterior row); c, 

 eighth. 



Plate IV (XII). 



Acanthodoris pilosa (0. F. Miiller), var. purpurea. 



1. Labial disk, with (a) the lancet-formed blades projecting in 



the lowest part of the mouth proper. 



2. The lancet-formed blades (a) with the adjoining part (6) of 



the armature of the mouth,* J-^^. 



3. a. The right lancet-formed blade ; 6, the adjoining part of the 



armature,* ^^^. 



4. Elements of the armature,* ^^^. 



5. Lateral plate, from the side,* -^f^. 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



<;. The hook of a pltite, from the side.* ^f^. 



7. Salivary gland ; a, duct ; 6, posterior end. 



8. a, pa7's pylorica intestini ; b, vesica fellea; c, intestinum 



descendens. 



9. Part of the vas deferens^ with its stricture,* J-?-^-. 



Acanthodoris pilosa (M.) rar-. hrunnea albopapillosa. 



10. ab, Lancet-formed blades from the under side,* i?^. 



11. ff, Part of left; 6, of right lancet-formed blade; c, adjoining 



part of the armature of the mouth,* ^f^. 



12. aa, Upper part of three lateral plates ; bb^ two series of exter- 



nal plates ; from the sheath of the radula,* ^f ^. 



Acanthodoris pilosa (M.) var. albescens. 



13. Elements of the armature of the mouth,* ^f^. 



14. Isolated element,* ^f^. 



1.^. Upper part of a lateral plate, from the outside,* ^\-. 

 1 6. Upper part of a lateral plate, from the inside,* ^f ^. 



Plate V (XIII). 



Lamellidoris varians, Bergh. 



1. The central nervous system, obliquely, from the under side. 



* 5j5 . d^ ganglia cerebro-visceralia; bb, ganglia pedalia; c, 

 gangl. penis and gangl. genitale; d, ganglia buccalia; ee^ 

 ganglia gastro-cesophagalia. The eyes and the otocysts 

 visible. 



Acanthodoris pilosa (M.), var. albescens. 



2. The bulbus phar^-ngeus, from the side ; a, cuticula and the 



lancet-formed blades; 66, mm. retractores bulbi ; c, the 

 sucking-crop ; c?, salivary gland, above this the right buccal 

 and gastro-oesophageal ganglion ; e, the sheath of the radula 

 /, the crop of the oesophagus ; g, continuation of the oeso- 

 phagus. 



3. Lateral plates, from the outside,* ---^-fi. 



4. Partof the armature of the spermatod net, with its hooks,* -^(^ . 



9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Acanthodoris pilosa (M.). 



5. a, spermatotheca ; b, spermatocysta ; c, duct to the mucous 



gland ; dd, duct to the vagina, 



Acanthodoris csei'ulescens, Bergh. 



6. Part of the armature of the mouth,* ^f^. 



7. External plates, from the side ;* -^^f^ a, innermost. 



Chromodoris Dalli^ Bergh. 



8. The upper part of a branchial l^af,* J-^-^-. 



9. Part of the lip-plate, from above,* ^f^. 



10. Elements of the lip-plate,* ^K 



11. Part of the rhachis, with three (bosses or) false plates,* ^p. 



12. a, false plate, obliquely, from the side,* -^f^. 



13. The 13th plate, from the side,* -if^. 



14. The 9th plate, from the side,* ^^. 



Triopa clavigera (0. Fr. Miiller). 



15. Tubercles of the back. 



16. Vertical section of one of the appendices of the back ; a, bag 



at the point. 

 n. Elements of this last bag. 



18. Spicula of the skin.* 



1 9. Lowest part of the mouth, with its cuticula ; a, the free 



margin,* ^f^. 



20. Hindermost part of the bulbus ; a, tongue; 6, sheath of the 



radula. 

 / 



Plate YI (XIV). 



Chromodoris Dalli^ Bergh. 



1. The buccal (a) and gastro-oesophageal (b) ganglia,* ^s., 



2. Part of the median portion of the radula ; a, false plates, on 



each side the 2-3 innermost (lateral) plates,* ^^. 



3. Outer part of two series of plates with 11 plates; a, outer- 



most; b, eighteenth,* ^f^. 



4. a, spermatotheca ; b, spermatocysta; c, duct to the vagina; 



d, duct to the mucous gland,* ^^-. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Ghromodoris Calif orniensis, Bergh. 



5. Hinder part of the body, from the under side, with 6 knot* 



on the mantle-margin ; a, foot,* ^f ^. 



6. Upper median part of the true mouth,* ^|^. 



7. Part of 4 series of hooks of the lip-plate, from above,* ^f^.. 

 8-10. Elements of the same, in different positions,* ^^^. 



11. Three innermost plates ; a, the first,* ^f^. 



12. One of the largest plates,* ^^^. 



13. Hook of 3 larger plates, obliquely, from the foreside,* ^f^. 



14. Four outermost plates; a, outermost,* ^f^. 



15. Two irregular outermost , plates ; a, outermost,* ^f^. 



Acanthodoris cxj-ulescens, Berg:h. 



16. Series of plates; a, two lateral plates; 6, the outermost of 



the external plates,* ^^^. 



Triopha modesta, Bergh. 



17. Part of one of the hindermost series of plates (in the slieath), 



with (a) 4 lateral plates and {b, c) 2 external plates,* ---f^. 



18. o, second and &, third large lateral plates, from above and 



from the back,* ^K 



19. a, fourth ; h, fifth plate (as in fig. 18 from the tongue),* -^^. 



20. Outer false plate of the rhachis (from the sheath),* 3,\^. 



Tr-iopa clavigej^a (M.). 



21. a, second lateral plate; 6, two external plates,* ^f^. 



22. First lateral plate,* ^|^. 



Plate YII (XV). 



Triopha modest a, Bgh. 



1. Central nervous system,* ^\4 . q^ ganglia cerebro-visceralia ; 



bb, pedal ganglia ; e, ganglia olfactoria proximalia ; dd^ 

 buccal ganglia ; e, gangl. gastro-wsophagal. 



2. The labial disk with the true mouth. 



8. Upper commissure of the lip-plates,* -Y-. 

 4. Elements of the lip-plate,* ^K 

 .'). Upper ends of two elements,* ^f ^. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



6. Median part of a series of the teeth ; a, (false) median plates 

 of the rhachis; 66, external plate of the same; ce, first 

 lateral plate ; c?, third lateral plate,* ^K 



1. Continuation of the former; a, fourth plate; 6, outermost 

 plate,* ^^. 



8. Four (inner) uncinal plates ; a, the second ; b, the fifth,* ^^. 



0. First lateral plate,* ^f^. 



1 0. Seventh and eighth external plates,* -^-|^. 



11. Salivary gland; a, gland ; b, duct,* -Y- 



Triopa clamgera (M.). 



12. Tentacle. 



1 3. Part of the armature of the penis.* ^f ^. 



Polycera pallida, Bergh. 



14. The glans penis,* -^-|^. 



Plate VIII (XVI). 



Polycera pallida^ Bergh. 



1. Central nervous system, from the upper side,* Y- ; aa, visceral 



ganglia; 6, ganglia buccalia and gastro-oesojyhagalia. 

 'J. Part of the radula with two rows ; aa, interior ; 66, exterior 

 lateral plates ; cc, uncinal plates,* -^-f 



3. Exterior lateral plate, from the side,* ^^. 



4. Under side of the two lateral plates:* aa and 6, as in fig, 2. 



* 35 

 1 



* 35 



5. First lateral plate, from the side,* ^4' 

 H. The same, from above,* 3.^^. 



7. Hook of the second lateral plate,* ^^. 



8. Genital papilla and everted penis with its glans ; 6, prominent 



fold of the duct of the mucous gland. 

 0. Glans of the penis, with the end of (6) the spermatoduct,* 

 ^f ^ ; a, point of the glans. 



Archidoris Monfereyensis (Cooper). 



10. Large lateral plate, from the side,* ^f-^. 



JI. Outer part of two series of plates with 4 plates; aa, outer- 

 most,* -y-. 




1.880.] NATURAL SCIENCES Of PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Aphelodoris Antillensis, Bergh. 

 (Cf. Malakozoolog. Blatter, N, S., i, 1879, p. 107-113). 



12. a, ganglia huccalia^ with 6, ganglia gastr-o-ossophagalia ; c. 



secondary ganglion, 



* 200 



1 3. Median part of two series of plates ; aa, innermost ; 66, second 



plates,* ^^. 



14. A large lateral plate,* ^f-. 



15. Outermost double plates of two series,* ^|^. 



16. Outer part of two series with two plates ; aa, outermost,* ^^•- 

 11 7. The sixth plate from the outer margin of the radula,* ^f ^. 



! 8. Outer part of three series with 3 plates ; a, outermost,* ^^. 



Polycera Holbolli (Moll.). 



1 9 The genital papillae, from the front. 



20 The same, from the side. 



21. First lateral plate, from above,* ^y^. 



January. 1880. 



ERRATA FOR PART I. 



On account of the inability of the author to read the proofs, 

 and from certain obscurities in the manuscript, some errors crept 

 into the first part of this paper, and the arrangement of the para- 

 graphs was somewhat confused by the printer. 



The delicacy and beauty of the plates in their original state, 

 liaving been destroyed by the printer, the present ones have been 

 steel-surfaced, to avoid, if possible, a similar misfortune. 



The specific name Calif orniensis ( Ghromodoris) was substituted 

 in the printed text for Calensis^ which appeared on the plate and 

 ill the manuscript under the idea that the latter was intended 

 merely as an abbreviation. 



The following list of errata has been received from the author ; 

 it is believed that the present concluding part of the paper is 

 much less in need of such corrections. 



Page 128 ( 72), line 15 : for Triopa modesta, B., read Triopha viodesta, B. 

 " 129 ( 73), line 22 : for mandibulse read . Mandibulte. 

 '' 130 ( 74), line 2 : for genus read penis. 



•' 132 ( 76), line 30 : a comma to be put before the parenthesis, and 



the comma after the parenthesis to be cancelled. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Page 135 ( 79), line 11 : for dentibus medianis denticulati read dentibus 



medianis denticulatis. 

 " 135 ( 79), line 18 : for caducous read not caducous. 

 ^' 135 ( 79', line 19 : a semicolon is needed before "the foot." 

 '^ 136 ( 8^*), line 5 : the comma after "laterales " to be cancelled. 

 " 136 ( 80), line 17 : a comma is needed after " 1, 5 "; the comma after 



" rhinophoria " to be cancelled. 

 "■ 138 ( 82), line 5 : for Plate I, fig. 9, read PI I. fig. 9-12. 

 " 140 ( 84), line 39 : for (fig. 11, one to fourj read fpl. I. f. 11 ; pi. II, 



f. 1-4). 

 " 141 ( 8-i), line 1 : for The intestines are read The intestine is. 

 " 141 ( 85), line 3 : for anal papillae read anal papilla. 

 " 141 ( 85), line 34 : for 2 w. pi. read w. 2 pi. 

 " 141 ( 85), line 35 : for 2te Heft read 2tes Heft. 

 " 141 ( 85), line 41 : for ab read ob. 

 " 142 ( 86^ line 6 : /or denticalis rert(i denticulis. 

 " 144 ( 88), line 16 : for M. retractoris read M. retractor. 

 " 145 ( 89), line ^ : for Z R. J. read 3 R. I. 

 " 145 ( 89), line 27 : for Dentes medianse read D. mediani. 

 " 145 ( 89), line 27 : for altamen read attamen. 

 " 146 ( 90), line 22 : for mantle read muzzle. 

 " 147 ( 91), line 11 : for anal read oral. 

 * 150 ( 94), line 4 : for Animal read Color animalis. 

 " 150 ( 94), line 3 : before Dendron. Dalli, B., insert "2." 

 ' ' 152 ( 96), line 27 : for side, the read side. The. 

 " 153 ( 97 S line 17 : for Dalzell read Dalyell. 

 " 153 ( 97). line 27 : for Tr. glaucse read Tr. glamae. 

 ' ' 154 ( 98 \ line 15 : for cucculata read cucuUata. 

 " 154 ( 98), line 19 : for Duvancelia read Duvaucelia. 

 " 155 ( 90), line 8 : for of the papillae read of the papilla. 

 " 156 (100), line 11 : for is contracted read was contracted. 

 " 156 (100), line 16 : /(??• The larger mucous gland read The larger 



opening of the mucous gland. 

 " 156 (100), line 19 : for before which read , below which. 

 " 156 (100), line 38 : for in the hinder part read between the binder 



parts. 

 " 159 (103), line 20 : for The cardia were wide, etc., read the cavity 



was, etc. 

 " 159 (103), line 26 : for but backward at the front and end read bent 



backward at the frontal end. 

 " 160 (104\ line 1 : for Fig. 65 a rend 15 a. 

 " 161 (105), line 33 : for bulbus, and read bulbus, or. 

 " 161 (105 \ line 38 : for Beitr. read Bidr. 

 '* 162 (106), line 17 : for dentates read dentatis. 

 " 163 (107), line 33 : for leaves 80 read leaves 8. 

 " 163 (107), line 9 : for Fig. 6, 7, read Fig. 10, 11. 

 «• 165 (109), line 25 : for Fig. 1-7 read Fig." 8-14. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 12Y 



Page 166 (110), line 19 : for Fig. 1 read Fig. 8. 

 167 (111), line 4 : for Fig. 2 read Fig. 9. 

 167 (ill), line 6 : for Fig. 3 read Fig. 10. 

 167 (111), line 15 : for Fig. 4 read Fig. 11. 

 167 (111), line 10 : for Fig. 1 a read Fig. 2 a. 

 167 (111), line 16 : for Fig. 5 read Fig, 12. 

 167 (111), line 19 : for Fig. 4, 5, read Fig. 11, 12. 



167 (111), line 23 : for Fig. 6, 7, 8, read Fig. 13, 14, 3 b. 



168 (112), line 5 : for Plate XII read PI. XIV. 

 168 (112), line 6 : for punctus read punctis. 

 170 (114), line 5 : for Fig. 13 read Fig. 15. 

 170 (114), line 24 : for latiuni read latum. 

 170 (114), line 26 : for minutissimus read minutissimis. 



170 (114), line 33 : for the gills read the gill. 



171 (115), line 34 : for Branchiae read Branchia. 



172 (116), line 17 : for Samso read Samso. 



173 (117), line 30 : substitute a semicolon for the period. 

 173 (117), line 31 : substitute a period for the semicolon. 

 175 (119), line 23 : for 1.3 read 13. 

 175 (119), line 23 : for 7 7.0 read 7-7.8. 



175 (119), line 24 : for the light read the right. 



176 (120), line 7 : for individual read individuals. 



176 (120), line 21 : for leg read bag. 



177 (121 (, line 1 : for branchiae read branchia. 

 177 (121), line 32 : for of the right hand are read of the right hand 



one, is. 

 180 (124), line 10 : for spermatocysts read spermatocyst. 

 180 (124), line 33 : substitute a semicolon for the period. 

 183 (137), line 3 : for c read a. 

 183 (127), line 18 : for (F.) read (O. F. Miill.) 

 183 (127), line 21 : for inside read outside. 



183 (127), line 23 : for the same read the same from the inside. 



184 (128), line 13 : for d read a. 

 184 (128), line 16 : for b read a. 

 186 (130), line 12 : for of read f. 

 186 (130), line 26 : for 2. read 2, 2. 



186 (130), line 33 : for e read c. 



187 (131), line 37 : for to the twelfth read to b, the twelfth. 



188 (132), line 12 : for cuticle read skin. 



R. BERGH. 




128 proceedings of the academy of [1880 



February 3. 

 Mr. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty -one persons present. 



February 10. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberoer, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 

 The death of Adolph E. Borie, a member, was announced. 



Sartorius Muscle of the Gorilla. — Mr. Howard A. Kelly 

 described the sartorius muscle in the right leg of the Gorilla 

 troglodytes (young), from the Ogode river, West Africa, partially 

 dissected, and described b}- Dr. Chapman in the Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Soi., Phila., 1879. 



The muscle is 10 inches long, and \ inch broad. Tendinous for 

 about ^ inch at its origin, and its insertion. It arises from the 

 iliac bone at the beginning of the middle third of the distance 

 from betw^een the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and the 

 symphysis pubis. Its insertion is on to the inner face of the tibia 

 (which is 5i inches long), 3 inches below the knee joint. 



Six inches from its origin the muscle is reinforced by a muscular 

 slip \ inch in breadth. This slip arises at the lower part of the 

 middle third of the femur, betw^een the origin of the quadriceps 

 extensor, and the insertion of the adductors, it joins the sartorius 

 muscle opposite the knee joint. 



In consulting the literature on the myology of the Gorilla, wo 

 reference to any such slip has been found. Among all the 

 numerous anomalies recorded of this muscle, in the human sub- 

 ject, no corres|)onding variation has been found. 



February IT. 



The President, Dr. Rusghenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a New Crustacean from the 

 Upper Silurian of Georgia, with remarks upon Calymene Cliv- 

 toni,''' by Anthony W. Vogdes, was presented for publication. 



Germination in Acorns. — Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to 

 some intei'esting facts in the germination of Quercus virens, as 

 brought to his attention by W. St. J. Mazyck, of Georgetown, 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



South Carolina. It was generall}' known that in this species the 

 cotyledon did not divide into two lobes as usual in acorns, but 

 seemed to be of one solid mass, without any trace of a division. 

 In germination, however, two petioles were developed as in other 

 aconis, but instead of these being veiy short, indeed nearly 

 sessile, as in the ordinary white oak, thej' were produced appar- 

 enth' in the much advanced specimens sent by Mr. Mazj'ck to 1^ 

 inches in length before the plumule and hypocotyledonary portions 

 of the embrj'o commenced their growth. In respect to the latter, 

 a small ovate, striate tuber, apparent!}' as one might judge from 

 the shrivelled specimens on hand, nearly one-fourth the size of the 

 acorn was formed, and from this tuber the radicle proceeded, and, 

 afterwards, the plumule on its upward growth. 



Mr. Meehan said he had since examined sprouting acorns of 

 Quercus alba, Q. nibra, Q. arenaria, and Q. prinoidea, noticing a 

 very slight tendencv to a tuberous condition, onl}'- in the last 

 named. But in regard to the lengthening of the petioles, he was 

 surprised to find a variation in each species. In Quercus pri- 

 voides, the petioles were nearly- an inch in length. 



He believed the discovery would be of great value to sj'stematic 

 botanists in the determination of species in this very difficult 

 genus, and should examine and report after an examination of 

 manv other species, but thought proper to call the attention of the 

 Academy to the matter in this early stage that due credit might 

 be recorded to Mr. Maz^'ck for his interesting discovery. 



Mr. Edw, Potts, at the request of Mr. Meehan, had made 

 sections of both the acorn and the spindle-shaped radicle, with the 

 result of finding the cell structure of the latter an almost exact 

 counterpart of that in the nut: L e., sub-spherical cells of uniform 

 size, gorged with starch grains. So similar were they that it 

 would be nearly impossible for an observer to say which he was 

 examining but for the cortical tissue surrounding the root. It 

 seemed that the food supply of the young plant had been thns 

 withdrawn from a position exposed to hot sun and drying winds, 

 to one protected by the earth and in the direct line of growth. 

 No line of specialized cells could be discovered in the sections of 

 the nut, indicating the possibilitj' of a separation as in other 

 species into two cotyledons ; so that to all intents and purposes it 

 might be called monocotjledonous. 



February 24. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twent3-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled " Carcinological Notes, No. 3," by J. S. Kings- 

 ley, was presented for publication. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The death of John Rice, a member, was announced. 



R. S. Hiiidekoper, M. D., David Townsend, John B. Wood, 

 Thos. Miles, Frances Emily White, M. D., and John S. Capp were 

 elected members. 



The following were elected correspondents : — Robert Caspary, 

 of Konigsberg, Agostino Todaro, of Palermo, J. E. Bommer, of 

 Brussels, Teodoro Caruel, of Pisa, H. T. Geyler,of Frankfort-on- 

 the-Maine, Robert Schomburg. of Adelaide, and A. Inostranzeff. 

 of St. Petersburgh. 



March 2. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



The death of Wm. Maxwell Wood, M. D., a correspondent, was 

 announced. 



On a Filaria Reported to have come from a Man. — Prof. Leidy 

 exhibited a large thread-worm, which had been submitted to his 

 examination by Dr. J. J. Woodward, U. S. A. It was recently 

 presented to the Army Medical Museum, at Washington, by Dr. 

 C. L. Garnett, of Buffalo, Putnam Co., West Virginia. Accom- 

 panying the specimen, is the copy of a letter from Dr. Garnett to 

 Dr. Woodward, from which the following is an abstract : " During 

 the winter of 18t6, a man, a common laborer, aged about fiftj^, 

 presented himself to me for treatment having a gleety discharge 

 from the urethra, with a burning sensation during and after mic- 

 turition. Previously, he had been treated for gonorrhoea, and I 

 prescribed accordingly. The patient not improving, applied to 

 other practitioners. In April, 1878, he came to me with a round, 

 vivid-red worm, twenty-six inches in length, (the specimen you 

 now possess) which was alive and very active in its movements, 

 instantly coiling up like a watch-spring on being touched. Having 

 no work on helminthology for reference, the only description I 

 found which appeared to answer to the worm was that of Strongy- 

 lua gigas, in Niemeyer, vol. II, p. 41. The patient is an illiterate 

 man, with no motive for deception. He informed me that he dis- 

 covered the worm protruding from his penis and drew it out 

 without pain or difficulty. He was in much agitation and alarm 

 about the occurrence, fearing, as he said, that "there might be 

 more behind that one." For a few days previous to its passage, 

 his urine was of a milky hue and some time subsequently of a yellow 

 cast and slightly tinged with blood and mingled with mucus. The 

 man is truthful, and no doubt exists in my mind, or in the minds 

 of his neighbors as to the correctness of his statements. I regret 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



exceedingly that I did not appreciate the scientific interest of the 

 subject, and send you the specimen in a fresh state, but the busy 

 routine of a country practitioner's life leaves no time for the study 

 of other than subjects of practical value in one's every day ex- 

 perience." 



The worm preserved in alcohol is much coiled, of a clay color 

 and opaque, or only feebly translucent, but more so at the head end. 

 If it is really a human parasite, it appears to differ from all those 

 heretofore described, and also seems different from other known 

 parasites. It certainly is neither Eusfrongylus gigo-^^, nor is it the 

 Guinea-worm, Filaria medinensis^ though nearly related to this. 

 Its characters are as follows : Body long, restiform, nearly uni- 

 formly cylindrical, smooth, shining, elastic, 

 tough, without evident annulation other than 

 transverse wrinkling, with the anterior ex- 

 tremity evenly tapering in the continuous 

 head, the end of which is rounded and smooth 

 or without appendages of any kind ; the pos- 

 terior extremity not tapering, with the caudal 

 end incurved, bluntly rounded, without ap- 

 Fig. 1. Fig. 2. pendages and imperforate or without evident 



1. Cephalic extremity ; 2. anal or genital apcrturc. Mouth a terminal 



Caudal extremity ; the diaso- .., , i- -ii , /. 



nai marking indicates the porc without lips, papillte, or ai'maturc 01 any 

 ret?e^gume'l''^Teram:'. ^md. Tharyux Cylindrical, and opening into 

 ters. a straight cylindrical intestine, apparently 



ending in a blind pouch. Generative organs unobserved. Length 

 of worm, 26 inches, greatest thickness, TS mm. Width of head 

 just behind the rounded extremity, 0'375 mm.; opposite the com- 

 mencement of the intestine, 0*625 mm.; at the middle, 1*5 mm.; 

 at the incurved caudal extremity, 1*5 mm. Length of oesopha- 

 gus, 1-125. 



The worm, of exceedingly simple character, is clearl}'" neither a 

 Gordius nor a Mei-mis, and though apparently more nearly allied 

 to Filaria, a, more intimate knowledge of its structure may prove 

 it to be different. For the present it was proposed to distinguish 

 it with the name of Filaria restiformis. 



On Rochelia patens. — Mr. J. II. Redfield remarked at the 

 meeting of the Botanical Section, that Rochelia patens was 

 founded by Nuttall, upon a plant collected by W^eth on Flat 

 Head River, in the Rocky Mountains, and was described in the 

 Journal of the Academy, 1st series. Vol. YII, p. 44, in 1834. 



Dr. Gray in the Synoptical Flora of North America, II, p. 197, 

 remarks concerning the plant that it may be an Eritrichium, but 

 has not been identified, nor was it in the Academy's Herbarium. 



Mr. R. stated that this specimen had been recently found among 

 the Academy's specimens of Echinospermum, and had been pro- 

 nounced by Dr. Gray to be Echinospernnnn florihundum^ Lehm., 

 a species widely diffused in Western North America. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMV OF [1880. 



The following report iipon the plants introduced through the 

 medium of the Centennial Exhibition was read : 



EEPORT ON PLANTS INTEODUCED BY MEANS OF THE INTEENATIONAL 



EXHIBITION, isre. 



The committee appointed on the 10th of October, IStG, at the re- 

 quest of the United States Centennial Commission, to examine and 

 report upon the subject of the introduction of insects* and plants 

 through the medium of foreign exhibits, respectfully reports that 

 it has delayed reporting on the plants till now in the belief that 

 some solitary plants might be ovei'looked, which producing seed 

 and increasing in following seasons, might be then discovered by 

 their greater numbers. But only those named in the list have been 

 found, and only in isolated specimens showing no disposition 

 whatever to spread and remain with us. So far, therefore, as the 

 object of the committee appointment is concerned, it may be said 

 in effect that no plant has been introduced, to our knowledge, 

 by the agency of the exhibition. 



It is but justice to say that the plants have been collected by 

 our esteemed fellow member, Mr. Isaac Burk, whose familiarity 

 with the botany of Fairmount Park, rendered him particularly 

 fitted to detect any new introduction. Some of the few plants 

 named are from the western portion of our country, others from 

 Europe, and a few from Japan. 



Lepidium sativum, L. Killingia pumila , M:ic. 



Bunias Erucago, L. Fimbrutylis miliacea, Muhl. 



Crepu tectorum, L. Cyperus diandrus, Torr. 



Centaurea nigra, L. Triticum viUosum, Beand. 



HypochcRris radicata, L. Triticum clavatum, Stedl. 



Desmodium tomentosum, D. C. Leucoea Langsdorffiana, Steudl. 

 Cycloloma platyphylla, Moq. 



Respectfully submitted. 



John L. LeConte, 



Geo. H. Horn, 



Joseph Leidy, 



J. Gibbons Hunt, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Committee. 



*The report upon the insects was printed in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy of Natural Scienees of Philadelphia, for 1876, page 267. 




1880.j natural sciences of philadelphia. 133 



March 9. 

 The President, Dr. Rusohenberoer, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



Mammary Glarids of Bats. — Dr. H. Allen exhibited specimens 

 of bats dissected to show the position and peculiarities of the 

 mammary glands. These bodies have been described as post- 

 axillary and two in number. For Desmodus this account is cor- 

 rect. For PhyUorhina^ Nycferis and the common red bnt of this 

 country {Atalapha {-^ Lasiurvs) novehoracensu) it is incorrect. 

 In the first two the glands answering to the axilla are low down 

 and have their nipples on a line with the middle of the clavicle. In the 

 common red bat the gland answering to the so-called post-axillary 

 is outside and below the axilla, but on a line with it. It occupies, 

 indeed, the lower third of the side of the chest and borders upon 

 the inferior line of the chest. In addition to this there is con- 

 stantly present a pectoral gland situated as in Quadrumana and 

 the human species. These glands resemble one another in general 

 appearance and size, being circular in form, without hair, of a 

 dull yellow color, possessing a well-developed nipple, and meas- 

 uring 3 lines in diameter. 



It is interesting to observe that the specimens of non-lactating 

 bats show no external signs of mammse. The mammary regions are 

 covered with fur of the same character as seen elsewhere. 

 Neither in a female with embryos 2 lines in length is there any 

 external development. If such a specimen be dissected, the 

 locality of a rudiment of the gland can be detected by the posi- 

 tion of a small circle of thin, dark skin with a central white spot, 

 such structures representing the patch of modified skin and nipple 

 ready to receive the future developing active gland. No mam- 

 mary structure in this stage is anywhere visible, nor is there any 

 subcutaneous fat. Dissection of the body of the lactating female 

 on the other hand shows the mamma to be as large as the external 

 conformation, and the pectoral and lateral thoi*acic regions to be 

 occupied by a large but sharply limited mass of fat, which runs 

 up into the axilla and encroaches upon the dorsal surface of the 

 trunk. The rest of the under surface of the animal is without fat. 

 It is likely that there exists in the bat the same provision noted 

 in analogous structures of many lower animals, — namely, the 

 presence of secondary sexual characters (among which the milk 

 gland may be placed) which practically disappear in the periods 

 between sexual activity. 




134 proceedings of the academy of [1880. 



March 16. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty-five persons present. 



A paper entitled " Carcinologieal Notes, No. IV," by J. S. 

 Kingsley. 



The death of Dr. Win. M, King, U. S. N., a member, was 

 announced. 



March 23. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 One hundred and fifteen persons pi-esent. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" On the Gestation and Generative Apparatus of the Elephant," 

 by H. C. Chapman, M. D. 



" On a New Species of Hemitripterus from Alaska," by W. N. 

 TiOckington. 



The death of Hector Tyndale, a member, was announced. 



March 30. 



Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirt^'-eight persons present. 



The death of Jacob Stauffer, a correspondent, was announced. 

 Paris Halderaan, Geo. B. Heckel and Emlen Physic, M. D., were 

 elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



CAECINOLOGICAL NOTES, No. II.— EEVISION OF THE GELASIMI. 



BY J. S. KINGSLEY. 



I have endeavored in this paper to straighten out the species of 

 the " Fiddler Crabs," basing my work on the large collections of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and of the 

 Peabody Academy of Sciences at Salem, Mass. My material has 

 been ample, embracing more than half the known forms, among 

 which are types of Smith, Guerin, Eydoux, Leconte and Sa}-, 

 with other specimens from Guerin's collection which were identified 

 by comparison with the types of Milne Edwards. I have reduced 

 considerably the number of specific forms, and in so doing I have 

 been actuated not by any desire to overturn the work of others, 

 but merely to arrive at the true limits of the species. A similar 

 reduction in other genera must be made, and will be made, by 

 any one who attempts to stud}' the forms of the whole world, and 

 does not limit himself to those of a small portion of its surface. 

 Among the important features of this paper is the extension of 

 the range of many forms, which has been accomplished either 

 by finding new localities among the specimens studied, or by a 

 union of two or more so-called species which bore different names 

 in different portions of the world. 



I have endeavored to give descriptions and figures of all known 

 forms of Gelasimi, and when possible I have taken them from the 

 specimens themselves ; when I had no specimens, I have given a 

 description compiled from- some other carcinologist, and have 

 followed it by the initial of his name. The same remark will 

 apply to the figures. Localities from which I have examined 

 specimens are followed by an exclamation point (!), and the 

 museum in which the forms are preserved is indicated by an 

 abbreviation ; these abbreviations are : Phila. Acad., Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Pa. ; Peab. Acad., Peabody 

 Academy of Sciences, Salem, Mass. ; U, C, Union College, 

 Schenectad}', N. Y. 



Genus GELASIMUS Latreille. 



Cancer (pars.) Linne, Herbst, Fabricius, De Geer. Ocypoda (pars) Bosc, 

 Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces, ii, p. 240 (1828)'; Latreille, 



' I have never seen a copy of the first edition of this work published in 

 the "An X " of the first French Republic (1802-3 of accepted chronology), 

 and my references are either quoted from the second edition by Desraarest, 

 or at second hand from Milne Edwards, or some other author. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF flggO 



u 



Histoire des Crustaces et de la Insects, vi, p. 27, " An. XI " (1803-4.) 

 Uca Leach, Trans. Linn. Soc, London, xi, p. 309 (1815). Gelasimus 

 Latreille, Nouvelle Dictionnaire d'Histoire Naturelle, xii, p. 517 

 (1817) ; Henri Milne-Edwards, Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces, ii, 

 p. 49 (1837) ; Annales des Sciences Naturelles, III serie, xviii, p. 

 144 (1853) ; Dana, Crustacea of the United States Exploring Expe- 

 dition, pp. 312 and 315 (1852) ; Hess, Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, 

 xxxi, Pt. II, p. 145 (1865); Alphonse Milne-Edward.s, Nouvelle 

 Archives du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, xi, p. 271 (1873) ; 

 Oonoplax (pars.) Lamarck, Histoire Animaux sans Vertebres, v. p. 

 353 (1818). 



The genus Oelasimus belongs to Cyclometopa {Ocypodoidea of 

 Dana), family Macrophthalniidse (Dana), and sub-family Ocypo- 

 dinae of the same author. It is characterized by the rhomboidal 

 carapax, broader in front, the elongate ocular pedicels, the eyes 

 proper being placed at the extremity, and by the great inequality 

 of the chelipeds in the male. 



In my studies I have found the characters derived from the 

 larger cheliped of the male to be the most constant, vrhile the 

 I'elative proportions of the carapax, the front and the margins of 

 the orbit, are of but slight importance and very variable. 



But two species ever referred to this genus b}'^ authors, are 

 now^ referred to other genera ; Gelasimus cordiformis forming 

 the type of the genus Helcecius of Dana, and Gelasimus tel- 

 escopicus Owen, which belongs to the genus Macrophthalmus. 



The genus may be divided into two groups, possibly of sub- 

 generic value, according as the front between the eyes is wide or 

 narrow, and the wide fronted section again according as the male 

 abdomen is seven or five jointed. 



§ A. Front very narroiv between the eyes. 

 1. Gelasimus maracoani Latreille. PI. is, f. 1. 



Ocypoda maracoani Latreille, Hist. Crust, et Ins., vi, p. 46 (1803). 



Oelasimus maracoani luAtveiWe, Did. A^Wxst. Nat., xii, p. 519 (1817); 

 Desmarest. Coneid. (pars) p. 133 (1835); Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., 

 ii, p. 51 (1837) ; Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 144, pi. Ill, f. 1 (1852) ; 

 Dana, U. S. Ex. Ex, Crust., p. 318 (1853) ; White, List. Crust. Brit, 

 Mus., p, 85 (1847). Gonoplax maracoani Lamarck, Hist. An. 

 Sans Vert., v, p. 354 (1818). Oelasimus armatus Smith, Trans. 

 Conn. Acad., ii, p. 133, pi, ii, f, 5, pi. iii, f. 4 (1870) ; Report Pea- 

 body Acad. Sci., iii, p, 91 (1871). 



Regions distinct, each branchial ornamented with a longitudinal 

 ridge, from which branch off smaller ones. Ischium of larger 




ISSO.J KATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



cheliped with a prominent tooth below ; meros with a tooth on 

 posterior margin at the artieukition with the carpus, otherwise 

 smooth and rounded, its upper and lower margins with spiniform 

 teeth which are more prominent above ; carpus elongate, with in- 

 (iistinct tubercles. Hand very large, compressed, externally 

 tuberculate on the basal portion, above with several teeth like 

 those of meros, inferior margin proximaLy tuberculate, outer sur- 

 face of thumb with large shallow punctte, the lower portion being 

 marginate. Occludent margin with three rows of tubercles, the 

 middle one forming a prominence at the basal two-fifths, the other 

 rows undulating, extremity contorted, acute ; inner surface nearly 

 smooth, with a tubercular ridge running from the articulation of 

 dactylus to the middle of lower margin of the palm ; dactylus 

 lamellate, externally granulate, lower margin nearly straight, 

 upper margin arcuate, basally tuberculate, tip acute and nearly at 

 right angles with occludent margin, inner surface nearly smooth, 

 somewhat concave, with a longitudinal tuberculate ridge near the 

 occludent margin. 



Bahia, Brazil! Dr. Wilson. Natal! [f] Dr. Wilson (labeled G. 

 natalensis). South America ! (Phila. Acad.) West Coast of Nicara- 

 gua ! McNiel (Smith's types in Peab. Acad.). Cayenne (Latr. 

 Edw.), Brazil (Latr. White), West Indies (White,', Eio Janeiro 

 (Dana). 



The only differences between Smith's types and specimens 

 from other localities, are the more crowded spines on the 

 upper border of the meros and the more sparse tuberculation of 

 tiie basal portion of the hand, characters surely not of specifi^c 

 importance. 



2. Gelasimus heterccheles Kingsley. PI. ix, f. 2. 



Seba, Thesaurus, iii, pi. xviii, f. 8 (1758) ; Cancer vocans major 

 Herbst, Naturgesch. Krabben und Krebse, pi. i, f. 1 (after Seba) 

 (1790). Ocypoda heterocheles Bosc, Edit. I, "torn, ii, p. 197, 1802" 

 (teste Auct.) ; Edit. II, i, p. 250 (1828) ; Cancer iika Shaw, Natur- 

 alist's Miscellany. XIV, pi. 588 (after Seba).i Gelasimus maracouni 

 (pars) Desmarest, 1. c, p. 123 ( 1825). Gelasimus platydactylus Edw., 

 Hist. Nat. des Crust., ii, p. 51 (1837) ; Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 



' I have been unable to ascertain the date of this volujne. The first 

 volume of the series bears the date 1790, the twenty-fourth (and last) 

 1813, but no others are dated ; it would, however, seem probable that the 

 fourteenth volume appeared in 1803, while the ''.\n X," in which Bosc's 

 first edition appeared, embraced parts of 1802 and 1803. 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



144, pi. iii, f. 2 (1852) ; Savissure, Revue et Magazin de Zoologie, II, 

 V, p. 362 (1853) ; Smith, Trans. Coun. Acad-., ii, p. 122 (1870). 

 Gelasimus princeps Smith, 1. c, p. 120, pi. ii, f. 10, pi. iii, f. 3-3e 

 '1870) ; Report Peab. Acad., iii, p. 91 (1871) ; Lockington, Proc. 

 California Acad., vii, p. 145 (1877). 



Carapax transversely iiearl}^ flat ; meros of larger cheliped 

 rounded posteriori}^, its lower margin crenulate, its upper pro- 

 duced into a broad, arcuate, laminiform, dentate crest ; carpus 

 elongate, externally tuberculate, inner margin crenulate, the inner 

 surface with one or two tubercles. Hand large, compressed, palmar 

 portion swollen, upper and lower margins tuberculate, external sur- 

 face of palm tuberculate, of thumb smooth, except a crenulated 

 ridge below. The inner surface smooth, with a tuberculate ridge 

 winning from the lower margin at the base of the thumb obliquely 

 upward and backward, and meeting a similar ridge from the base 

 of the dactjdus ; occludent margins of thumb with three rows of 

 tubercles, (the middle the most prominent) and somewhat angulated 

 beyond the middle. Dactylus with the upper margin and outer 

 basal portion tuberculate, the occludent margin rather prominent 

 in the middle. 



Mexico! (Guerin-Meneville). Jamaica! (Dr. Wilson) Phila. Acad. 

 Cayenne, Edw. W. Coast Nicaragua ! (McNiel, Smith's types 

 Peab, Acad.). Lower California (Lockington). Mazatla.n (Saus- 

 sure), 



Seba's figure represents the carapax as granulate and the front 

 rather broad (in these respects he has been followed by Herbst 

 and Shaw), otherwise his figure answers well. Bosc says that the 

 species is black ! Smith's types agree well with the Jamaica, 

 specimens which I have seen, except that the meral crest in the 

 Nicaraguan specimens is more distinctl}' den.tate. 



3. Gelasimus bellator White. PI. ix, f. ?i. 



Petiver, Opera, i, PI. 78, f. 5 (1767) ; Gelasimus bellator White, Cata- 

 logue British Musenm Crustacea, p. 36 (1847) ; (sine descr. ) Voyage 

 of H. M. S. Samarang, Crustacea, p. 49 (1848) ; Edw., Ann. Sci. 

 Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 146 (1852). 



Carapax arcuate, front but little enlarged below tlie eyes. 

 Meros of larger cheliped posteriorly with an oblique rounded 

 ridge, its ijiipper and lower margins crenulate, the former even 

 denticulate ; carpus externally polished, above granulate, inner 

 margin denticulate, outside of palm and basal portion of dactylus 

 granulate., inside of palm granulate but without tubercular ridges 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



except a short curved one near the occludent margin ; thumb ex- 

 ternally margined below, its occludent margin forming a promi- 

 nence at the distal third ; dactylus with the margins nearly 

 parallel, the occludent one with scattered larger tubercles, tip 

 acute. 



Australia ! (Dr. T. B. Wilson) Phila. Acad. Luzon (Petiver) Phil- 

 ippines (White). 



4. Gelasimus styliferus, Edw. PI. ix, f. 4. 



Gelasimus platydactylus Edw., 111. Edit. Regne Animal, Crustaces, pi. 

 xviii, f , 1 a (without date) . Gelasimus styliferus Edw., Am. Sci. Nat. 

 Ill, xviii, p. 145, pi. iii, f. 3, (1852) ; Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, 

 p. 118, (1870). 



A species very near G. platydacii/lus, but liaving the marginal 



crest of the arm less developed and the eye stalks terminated by 



a small stylet as in the Ocypodaa (Edw.). Is possibly but a variety 



of heterochelos. 



Ouayaquil, Equador, (Edw.). 



5. Gelasimus heterophthalmus Smith. PI. is, f. 5. 



Oelasimus heterophthalmus Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad, ii, p. 116, pi. 

 11, f. 6, pi. iii, f. 1 (1870) ; Rep. Peab. Acad. Sci. iii, p. 91 (1871). 



Meros of larger cheliped with posterior margin rounded, the 

 inferior crenulate, superior with a broad ci'cst, carpus with the 

 upper outer surface granulate, elsewhere smooth. Hand inflated, 

 basal portion of palm externall}' granulate, thumb punctate, with 

 an external elevated ridge. Inner surface of palm smooth, with 

 two rows of tubercles much as in G. heterocheles. Fingers com- 

 pressed, the thumb with a deep emargination at the base and a prom- 

 inent tubercle just beyond, occludent margin of finger nearly 

 straight. 



Oulf of Fonseca, West Coast of Nicaragua .' McNiel (Smith's types 

 in Peab. Acad.). 



This species is closely allied to G. heterocheles. When I exam- 

 ined the specimens, the prolongations of the ocular peduncles 

 described by Prof Smith were broken off. 



6. Gelasimus heteropleurus Smith. PI. is, f. 6. 



Gelasimus heteropleiirus Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 118, pi ii, f. 

 7, pi. iii, f. 2 (1870) ; Rep. Peab. Acad., iii, p. 71 (1871). 



Carapax but slightly convex, one side produced laterally. One 

 eye with a stylet about as long as the cornea, similar to those 

 found in certain Ocypodse. Meros of larger cheliped with the 




HO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



margins denticulate, the upper one produced distally into a crest, 

 carpus granulate above. Hand externally granulate on the basal 

 portion, the upper and lower margins denticulate ; the inner sur- 

 face of the palm has an oblique line of tubercles running obliquely 

 upward and backward from the lower margin at the base of the 

 thumb to near the articulation with the carpus. Fingers short, 

 compressed, the thumb with the lower margin regularly arcuate ; 

 the upper margin of dactylus nearly straight as are the occludent 

 margins of each. 



Gulf of Fonseca ! McNiel (Peab. Acad., Smith's types). 



7. Gelasimus cultrimanus White. PI. ix, f. 7. 



Gekmmus vocans Edw., Annales des Sci. Xat., Ill, xviii, p. 145, PI. 

 Ill, f. 4 (1852) ; Stimpson, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 99 (1858) ; 

 Heller, Reise der Novara, Crustacea, p. 37 (1865) ; Hilgendorf, iu 

 van der Decken's Reise, p. 83 (1867) ; Alplionse Milne-Edwards, 

 Nouv. Arch, du Mus. d'Hist. Nat., ix, p. 273 (1873). Gelasimus 

 cultrimanus White, Catalogue Brit. Mus. Crust., p. 35, sine descr. 

 (1847) ; Voyage of the Samarang, Crust., p. 49 (1848). Gelasimus 

 nitidus Dana, U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust, p. 316, PI. X, f. 5 (1852). 



Carapax smooth, arcuate. Meros of larger cheliped witli an 

 oblique ridge on the upi^er posterior surface which gradually dis- 

 appears before the articulation with the carpus ; the inner margin 

 somewhat cristate, distally with a prominent tooth and sometimes 

 traces of a second ; carpus externally granulate, a portion near 

 the articulation with the meros smooth, inner surface with a strong 

 spiniform tubercle. Palmar portion of hand swollen and exter- 

 nally granulate, gi'anules larger below. On the inner surface there 

 is an oblique tubercvxlar crest near the lower margin but not ex- 

 tending to it, and a second near the occludent margin. Thumb 

 with an impressed line on the outer surfoce, the lower margin 

 granulous, the occludent margin broadly excavate ; this excava- 

 tion is sometimes regularl}' curved, but generally shows traces of 

 a division into two sinuses ; the distal fourth bends abruptly 

 downward to meet the inferior margin. Finger granulate above 

 near the base, occludent margin nearly straight, 



Philippines? Dr. T. B. Wilson (Phila. Acad.) ; Moreton Bay, Aus- 

 tralia! E, Wilson (Phila. Acad.); Coast of Malabar ! Guerin's 

 Collection (Phila. Acad.). This specimen (labelled " G. crassi- 

 manus Coll. Mus.") has the excavation of the thumb of the larger 

 cheliped plainly divided into two pai-ts. Java, Malabar (Edw.) ; 

 Nicobars (Heller) ; Zanzibar (Hilgendorf) ; New Caledonia (A. 

 M.-Edw.). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILABELPHIA. 141 



There is a considerable confusion regarding this species. p]d- 

 wards considers this as the (Jancer vocans of Linne. Linne in 

 his tenth edition .p. (i2 >, 175Y) quotes Rumphius, PI. XIV, f. E. ; 

 and Catesby's Carolina, ii, PI. XXV. Rumphius' figure (of a 

 specimen from Amboina) represents a form with the fingers regu- 

 larly tapering, and resembling G. tetragonon more nearly than any 

 other species with which I am acquainted, but the figure is not 

 accurate enough to have an}^ systematic value. Catesby's figure 

 is the well-known Ocypoda arenai-ia of North America. Linne 

 (in the Amoenitates Academici, vi, p. 416) gives a description, 

 which does not at all apply to this species, and quotes in addition 

 Marcgrave, Piso, Rumphius, Catesby, and Seba, in the order 

 given, showing a still greater confusion. In his 12th edition, p- 

 1041, Gronovius and Petiver are added to the list, but no hints 

 showing what should be regarded as the Cancer vocanii. As there 

 exists such confusion, it is impossible to apply the name vocana, 

 with certainty, to an}' species, and for that reason I have thought. 

 it best to allow it to lapse into sj'nonymy and take the first recog- 

 nis ible description for this species. 



8. Gelasimas marionis Desmarest. PI. ix, f. 8. 



Oelasimus marionis Desm., Consid. sur le Crust., p. 124, PI. XIII, f. 

 1 (1825) ; Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 145 (1852). 



Carapax smooth, and with each margin terminated by an acute 

 angle directed forward; an H -shaped impression on the carapax. 

 Ocular peduncles slightly enlarged at the extremity, and without 

 a terminal point. Inferior border of the orbit creuulate. Right 

 hand greatly larger than the left, greatly' compressed, basallv 

 granulate; finger straight, its sides smooth, its occludent margin 

 granulate ; thumb arcuate below, with its internal border broadly 

 excavate in the middle, and armed with fine teeth. Length, 8 

 lines ; breadth, one inch (Desmarest). 



Manilla (Desm.^. Malabar {'Edw.''. 



I have not seen any form corresponding to this description or 

 figure. 



S. Gelasimus dubius Stimpson. 



Gelasimux dubius Stra., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phlla., 1858, p. 99. 

 Carapax and front as in G. cultrimanus. Inferior margin of 

 orbit crenulate, externally angulate. Meros of larger cheliped 

 spinulose, hand stout, externally granulate or tuberculate ; in- 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



ternally with crests as in G. cuUrimanus, but less prominent. 

 Digits rather broad, externally sulcata ; inner margin nearly 

 straight, irregularlj'^ dentate, two or three teeth larger than the 

 others (Stm.). 



Loo Ghoo (Stm.). 



10. Gelasimus forcipatus White. PI. ix, f. 9. 



Qelanmus forcipatus White, Catalogue Brit. Mus. Crust., p. 36, sine 

 descr. (1847) ; Voyage Samarang Crust., p. 50 (1848). Gelasimun 

 coarctatus Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 146, PI. Ill, f. 6 

 (1853; ; Heller, Crustaceen Sud. Europas, p. 100 (1863) ; Alph. 

 Milne-Edwards, Nouv. Arch, du Mus. d'Hist. Nat., IX, p. 272, PI. 

 XII, f. 4 (1873). 



Carapax convex, naiTOwed behind. Meros of larger cheliped 

 externally granulate, its margins denticulate. Carpus granulate, 

 inner margin produced but without a prominent tooth. Palm 

 externally granulate, its upper border slightly margined, its lower 

 tuberculate ; on the inside a few tubercles in a curved line near 

 the base of the dactjdus, and an oblique line from the lower 

 margin runs up to the articulation with the carpus, dactylus 

 granulate at the base, otherwise the hand and fingers are smooth. 

 Thumb regularly tapering, with an external impressed line, its 

 occludent margin regularly arcuate, with genei'ally a prominent 

 tubercle near the middle. Dactylus with a prominent distal 

 dentate lobe. 



[?1 Odessa/ Guerin (Phil. Acad.). Philippines! Drs. Wilson and 

 Burroughs (Phil, Acad.). Australia! E. Wilson (Phil. Acad.). 

 Borneo (Adams and White). Odessa (Edw. ). New Caledonia, 

 (A. M.-Edw.). 



I have united these two nominal species from an actual com- 

 parison of specimens. In the collection of Guerin-Meneville now 

 in the possession of the Philadelphia Academy, is a specimen 

 labelled " Gelasimus coarctatus Edw., Cat. Mus., Paris, Odessa," 

 and which was probably one of the original specimens which was 

 the foundation of Edward's description. I am strongly inclined 

 to doubt of the authenticity of the locality " Odessa," as I have 

 been unable to find any other authority than that of Edwards. 

 Marcussen in his Fauna of the Black Sea (-Archiv. fur Natur- 

 geschichte xxxiii, pp. .358-363, 1867) does not mention it. His 

 subsequent paper and that of Uljanin, I have not seen. Heller 

 merely quotes from Milne-Edwards. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



11. Gelasimns arouatus De Haan. PI. ix, f. 10. 



Ocypode ( Gelasimns) arcuata De Haan, Fauna Japonica, Crustacea, p. 



53, PI. VII, f. 2 (1835). Gelasimns arcuatus M.-Edw., Ann. Sci. 



Nat. Ill, xviii, p. 146 (1852) ; (?j Krauss, siid Afrikanische Crus- 



taceeu, p. 39 (1843) ; A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 373, 



(187?,'. 

 Carapax with sides carinate, carina acute, scarcel.y granulate; 

 inferior margin of orbit granulate. Meros of larger cheliped, 

 above concave, below flat ; internally with an acute granular ridge. 

 Carpus externally convex, above flat, hand twice the breadth of 

 the carapax , fingers compressed, smooth, externally longitudinally 



sulcate (De Haan). 



Japan (De Haan). JSew Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). [?J Natal Bay 

 (Krauss). 



12. Gelasimns tetragonon Ruppell. PI. ix, f. 11. 



Seba Thesaurus, iii, PL XIX, f. 15. ? Cancer serratan Forskal, Descr. 

 Animalium, etc., p. 87 (1775). Cancer tetragonon Herbst 1. c, i, p. 

 257, PI. XX, f. 110 (1790). Gelasimns tetragonon Ruppell, Beschrei- 

 bung und Abbildung 24 Krabbeu des rothes Meeres, p. 25, PL Y, 

 f. 5 (1836) ; Edw., Hist. Crust., ii, p. 52 (1837) ; Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, 

 xviii, p. 147, PI. Ill, f. 9 (1859) ; White, Cat. B. M. Crust, p. 3G 

 (1847) ; Guerin, Voyage Coquille, p. 10 (1839') ; Heller Reise der 

 Novara, p. 37 (1868) ; Hilgendorf in van der Decken, p. 84 (1867) ; 

 Kossman Reise nach rothen Meeren, p. 52 (1877). Gelasimns 

 duperreyi Gueviu, 1, c, PL I (1826) ; Dana, U. S. Ex. Ex. Crust., p. 

 317 (1852). Gelasimns desjardinii Guerin, MS. Gelasimns tetra- 

 gonon var spinicarpa Kossmann, 1. c, p. 52. Kossman gives a 

 reference to a paper by Poulson, but as the title is written in Russian 

 I have not been able to verify it. 



Carapax strongly arcuate, front not expanded below the eyes, 

 Meros of the larger cheliped with the upper margin terminating 

 distally in a strong spine, carpus smooth, the inner margin acute, 

 its basal portion sometimes expanded into a strong tooth. Hand 

 compressed, externally finely granulate, a shallow pit with coarse 

 punctffi near the base of the thumb ; internally granulate but 

 without tubercular ridges ; thumb with two prominences on the 

 distal lialf ; the finger regularly tapering. 



Mauritius ! Dr. WiLson, Guerin's Collection ; Tongatabou ! Wilkes 

 Expedition; Tahiti! A. Garrett ; Sandwich Is ! Dr. W. N. Jones 



' The title page of the volume bears the date 1830, but the introduction 

 to the Crustacea and Aiachnida is dated "15 Novembre, 1838," so that it 

 is probable that the volume did not appear complete until 1839. The 

 plates bear date 1826. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



(Phila. Acad); Tahiti and Sandwich Is..' A. Garrett (Peab. 

 Acad.); Red Sea and Nicoiar Is. (Heller); Zanzibar (HilgCn- 

 dorf, ; Bourbon (Edwards) ; New Caledonia {A. Milne-Edwards). 



13. Gelasimus acutns Sfm. 



Gelashnus acutus Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 99. 



Carapax narrowed behind, anterolateral angles prominent, acute, 

 marginal line distinct. P'ront narrow, not constricted, inferior 

 margin of orbit crenulate, externally acute, internal suborbital 

 lobe convex ; a crest on the sub-hepatic region parallel to the in- 

 ferior margin of the orbit, the included surface smooth. Larger 

 hand coarsely granulate, a tubercular ridge on the inner surface. 

 Fingers not longer than the palm, externally sulcate, inner margin 

 dentate, median tooth larger, but no sub-terminal tooth (Stimpson). 



Macao (Stimpson). 



14. Gelasimus forceps Milne-Edwards. PI. ix, f. 12. 



Oelasimus forceps Edw., Hist. Nat. des Cmst., ii, p. 52 (1837) ; An- 

 nales des Sciences Naturelles, III serie, tome xviii, p. 148, PI. Ill, f. 

 11 (1852) ; White Cat. Brit. Mus. Crust., p. 36 (1847). 



Cavapax narrowed behind, lateral angles prominent, acute; 



orbits below with two denticulate margins. Meros and carpus 



smooth, the lower margin of the meros crenulate, upper cristate, 



finely dentate ; hand smooth or indistinctly granulate, fingers 



long, slender, finely denticulate, the thumb with a distal lobe 



(Edwards). 



Australia (Edwards, White). 



I have not forms referable to the two foregoing species. 



15. Gelasimus longidigitum (nov.). PI. ix, f. 13. 



Closely allied to forceps in shape of carapax, orbits below with 

 a simple smooth margin. Meros and carpus smooth, the inner 

 margin of the carpus acute, crenulate. Basal portion of the hand 

 externally obscurely granulate ; internally with an oblique tuber- 

 cular ridge, and a few tubercles near the base of the fingers. 

 Fingers compressed, long, finely denticulate, and narrower near 

 the base than at the middle point. 



Moreton Bay, Australia ! E. Wilson. 



16. Gelasimus smitMi (nov.). PI. ix, f. 14. 



Carapax gibbous, front narrow ; meros with a strong, oblique 

 ridge on the upper outer surface, the inner upper mnrgin produced 

 into a prominent vertical crest. Carpus externally nearlj' smooth. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



the inner margin slightly produced and denticulate. I'ulni exter- 

 nally granulate above, smooth below, its upper margin granulate 

 and indistinctly indicated by an impressed line on the outer sur- 

 f;ice, and its inner surface smooth, without tubercular ridges, 

 except one at the base of the fingers. Fingers long, slender, 

 slightly compressed and regularly tapering, the extremity of the 

 dactylus somewhat expanded and excavate. 



Natal! E. Wilsou (Phila. Acad.). 



Named in honor of my friend Prof. S. I. Smith, of Yale College, 

 who has monographed the Amei'ican species of this genus. 



17. Gelasimus urvillei M.-Edw. PI. i.\, f. 15. 



GeUisiinus urvillei M.-Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii i). 148, PI. Ill, 

 f. 10 (1852). 



Resembles closely G. forceps, but has the medio-frontal sulcus 

 nearly linear, and the fingers shorter, the anterior border of the 

 meros of the larger cheliped obtuse and granulate (M.-Edw.). 



Vanikoro (M.-Edw.). 



18. Gelasimus dussamieri M.-Edw. PI. x, f. 16. 



Gelasimus dussumieri M.-^dw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, PI. IV, f. 12, 

 (1852)? Hilgendorf in van der Decken's Reise in Ost Afrika, 

 Crustaceen, p. 84, PI. IV, f. 1 (1867) ; Alph. M -Edw., Nouv. Arch, 

 da Mus. d'Hist. Nat. IX, p. 274 (1873). 



Resembles closely G. urvillei, but the accessory sub-orbital lobe 

 is less marked, the median sulcus of the front entirely linear and 

 the anterior border of the meros of the larger cheliped denticu- 

 late. Chela ver}- large, G. rubripes is closely allied, but appears 

 to be distinguished by the form of the fingers of the larger hand, 

 the larger tubercles of the carpus, etc., (Ex. auct.). 



Malabar and Samarang (Edw.) ; New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.) ; 

 Zanzibar (Hilgendorf). 



19. Gelasimus rubripes Jacq. and Lucas. PI. x, f. 17. 



Geliisimus rubripes Jacquinot and Lucas, Voyage des Astrolabe et Zelee 

 Crustacea, p. 66, PI. VI, f. 2 (1853) ; Heller, Reise der Novara Crus- 

 taceen, p. 38 (1867). 



Orbits granulate above and below, carpus of larger cheliped 

 with the external portion granulate, its margins finely denticulate. 

 Hand prominently granulate, internally smooth except fine granu- 

 lations at the origin of the thumb ; below strongl^^ dentate, finger 

 smooth except at the base where it is granulate; the inner margin 

 of the thumb with three large teeth, the intervals between which 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



are finely denticulate. Thumb smooth below its inner margin 



with several rows of granulations and a prominent tooth near the 



middle (J. et L.). 



Unknown (J. and L. ) Nicobars (Heller). 



20. Gelasimus signatus Hess. PI. x, f. 18. 



Oelasimus signatus Hess, Archiv fur Naturgeschichte, xxxi, p. 146, PI. 

 VI, f. 6 (1865). 



" Front between the eyes not so small as a G. variatns, cheliped 

 one and a half times the breadth of the body; arm, carpus and 

 hand bright red, fingers white. Arm below with two rows of 

 pearlj' tubercles, fingers with an elevation at the middle of the 

 inner border, distallj' arcuate and pointed " (Hess). 



Sydney, Australia (Hess). 



21. Gelasimus crassipes White. PI. x, f. 19. 



Oelasimus crassipes White, Cat. B. M. Crust., p. 36, sine descr. ; 

 Adams and White, Voyage Samarang Crustacea, p. 49 (1848). 



? 0. brevipes Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 146 (1852). 



" Carapace very much arched, suddenly narrowed behind, front 

 with a lobe without narrow stalk. Four hind pairs of legs thicker 

 and stronger than in the other species " (Ad. and White). 



Philippine Islands (White). 



There have been described three other species * belonging to 

 the narrow-fronted section, one of which has been made the type 

 of the genus AcanthopJax by Milne Edwards. A fourth species 

 from Bahia, Brazil, is in the collection of the Philadelphia 

 Academy-. So far as 1 am aware these are all females and are 

 represented by only a single specimen each, and as I am strongly 

 inclined to consider them the females of well-known forms I omit 

 descriptions of them. 



* Oelasimus insignis Smitli, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 126 (1870). 

 Acayithoplaxinsignis'Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 151, PI. IV, 

 f, 23 (1852) ; Archives des Museum, vii, p. 162, PI. II, f. 1 (1854).— 

 Chili (Edw.). 



Oelasimus ornatus Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 125, PL II, f. 9, 

 PI. Iir, f. 5 (1870) ; Report Peabody Acad. Science, iii, p. 91 (1871).— 

 West Coast Nicaragua! McNiel (Peab. Acad.). 



Acanthoplax excellens Gerstiicker, Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, xxii, 

 p. 138 < 1856). -No locality. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



§ B. Front broad between the orbits. 

 * Male abdomen seven-jointed. 



22. Gelasimus vocator Martens. PI. x, f. 20. 



Cancer vocator Herbst, Bd. iii, h. iv, p. 1, PI. LIX, f. 1 (1804). 

 Gelasimus vocans Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 54 (1837) ; 111. Edit. 



Regne Animal, Cru.stacea, PI. XVIII, f. 1 (no date) ; White, Cat. B. 



M. Crust., p. 36 (sine synon.), 1847. 

 Gelmimus vocans (pars) Gould, luvertebrata of Mass, p. 325 (1841). 

 Oelasimus vocans var. a Dekay, N. Y. Fauna Crustacea, p. 14, PI. VI, 



f. 10 (1844). 

 Gelasim2is palustrisBdyr., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 148, PI. IV, f. 



13 (1852) ; Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lyceum Nat. Hist., p. 62 (1860); 



Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 127 (1870). 

 Gelasimus pugillator Leconte, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 



1855, p. 403. 

 Gelasimus brevifrons Stimps., Ann. N. Y. Lyceum, vii, p. 229 (1860) ; 



Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 131 (1870) ; Lockington, Proc. 



Cal. Acad., vii, p. 147 (1877). 

 Gelasimus sp. Saussure, Memoirs Societe Phys. et Hist. Nat. Geneve, 



xiv, p. 440 (1858,1. 

 Gelasimus vocator Martens, Archiv fiir Naturgesch., xxxv, p 1 (1869 ; 



xxxviii, p. 104 (1872) ; Kingsley, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1879, p. 400. 

 Gelasimus pugnax, mordax et rapax Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, pp. 



131, 135, 134, Pis. II, f. 1, 2, 3, IV, 2, 3, 4 (1870). 

 Gelasimus affinis Streets, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1872, p. 131. 

 Gelasimus crenulatus Lockington, Proc. Cal. Acad., vii, p. 149 (1877). 



Carapax smooth, meros of the larger eheliped with its margins 

 denticulate or tuberculate, cai-pus externally granulate, internally 

 with an oblique tubercular ridge. Hand tuberculate, its inner 

 surface with a ridge running up from lower margin to carpal 

 groove ; in front of this are scattered granules. Thumb straight, 

 extremity obliquely truncate, finger strongl}^ arcuate, longer than 

 the thumb. 



East Coast of America, from Cape Cod! to Para, Brazil! West Indies! 

 and Aspinwall ! West Coast of Mexico ! Panama! 



The localities from which I have examined specimens number 

 over thirty and embrace several hundred specimens. I find in 

 the Guerin Collection two specimens from Mauritius which closely 

 resemble Cuban forms. 



This is, without much doubt, the species intended by Herbst ; 

 Edwards quotes the Cancer jMlustris of Sloane as this species, 

 but aside from the fact that his History of Jamaica was published 

 in 1125, And his name is therefore ante-Linnean (and is also poly- 




148 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880 



nomial), Sloane gives not the slightest description, but says th^it, 

 it agrees perfectly with the figure of Marcgrave which is the G.. 

 maracoani of authors. I think that any one studying as I have 

 large series of specimens, will agree with me in uniting these 

 various forms under one specific name, as the characters which 

 separate them are variable and not of specific importance. Prob- 

 ably G. minax should also be included here, as suggested by 

 Professor Smith. 



23. Gelasimus minax LeConte. PI. x, f. 21. 



Gelamnus minax LeConte, Pix)C. Phila. Acad., vii, p. 403 (1855; ; 



Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 128, PL II, f. 4, PI. IV, f. 1 



(1870) ; Rep. U. S. Fish Commission for 1871-72, p. 545 (1875); 

 Kingsley, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1879. p. 400. 



Carapax strongly arcuate longitudinally, the branchial regions 

 granulate anteriorly. Meros of larger chelipeds, with the upper 

 and lower margins tubei'culate as is the upper portion of carpus ; 

 inner margin of carpus with prominent tubercles, its inner surface 

 with an oblique tubercular ridge. Palm cristate above, externally 

 with large depressed tubercles above, smaller below, inner surface 

 also tuberculate and with a ridge of tubercles running obliquely 

 up from the lower margin at the base of the thumb to the depres- 

 sion into which the carpus folds, and a second curved one near the 

 base of the fingers. Fingers long, slender, regularly tapering, 

 finger longer than the thumb and distally strongly' arcuate. 



Beesley's Point, Dennis Creek, N.J..' S. Ashmead (Phila. Acad., 

 LeConte's types) ; Bhiffton, S. G. ! Dr. Mellichamp (Peab. Acad.) ; 

 Northampton Co., Va. / H. E. Websier (Union College); New 

 Haven, Conn., and St. Avgustine, Fla. (Smith). 



24. Gelasimus annulipes M.-Edw. PI. x, f. 22. 



Oekisimus annulipes M.-Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., II, p. 55, PI. 18, 1. 

 10-13 (18371 ; White, Cat. B. M. Crust., p 36 (1847' ; Edw.. Ann. 

 Sci. Nat. Ill, xviii, p. 149, PI. IV, f. 45 (1852) ; Dana, U. S. Ex. 

 Ex. Crust., 317 (1853) ; Heller, Reise der Novara, Crustacea, p. 88 

 (1867); Hilgendorf in Baron Decken's Reise, p. 85 (1867) ; Monats- 

 berichte Berliner Akademie, 1878, p. 803; Kossmann, Reise nach 

 rothen Meeren, p. 53 (187>) ; Spence Bate in J. K. Lord's Natural- 

 ist in Vancouver. Gelasimus macrodactylus Edwards and Lucas in 

 D'Orbigny's Voyage, 27, PI. XI, f. 3 (1843) ; Nicollet in Gay's Hist. 

 Chili Zool., iii, 165 (1840); Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, 149 

 (1852\ Gelasimus lacteus Krauss, Sud. Af. Crust., p. 39 (teste Hil- 

 gendorf j. Gelasimus pidchellus UtiTaitsou, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, 

 p. 100. Gelasimus annulipes \a,v albiinana kossmann I.e.. Gelmi- 

 mus rectilatus Lockington, Proc. California Acad. Sci., p. 148 

 (1877), 



I 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Carapax transversely nearly flat ; inferior margin of orbit 

 crenulate. Meros of larger cheliped smooth, angles rounded, 

 carpus the same with a few obsolete granulations on the upper 

 surface. Hand smooth, sub-marginate below, an oblique row of 

 tubercles on the inner surface, running up and back from near the 

 lower margin half way to articulation with the carpus, and two 

 sitttilar cuived lines near the articulation of the dactylus. Thumb 

 regularly tapering, a prominent tubercle near the middle, extremity 

 sub-excavate. Dactylus distally strongly curved, extending 

 slightly beyond the thumb. 



Australia! E. Wilson; Singapore! Dr. McCartee (Phila. Acad.); 

 Zanzibar! (C. Cooke) "N. W. Boundary Survey, A. Campbell, 

 Commr., Dr. C. B. Kennerly" ! (Peabody Acad.) ; Seas of India 

 and Asia (Edw.) ; Ceylon, Nicobars Madras (Heller); Mozam- 

 bique Inhambeni (Hilgendorf) ; Pondicherry (White) ; Valparaiso 

 (Edw. and Lucas) ; Vancouver (Bate) ; Lower California (Lock- 

 ington) ; Tahiti [^im.) \ Red Sea (Kossmann). 



25. Gelasimus laoteas DeHaan. PI. x, f. 28. 



Ocypode (Gelasimua) lacteus DeHaan, Fauna Japonica Crust., p. 54, 

 PI. XV, f. 5 (183.3). Oelasimus lacteus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, 

 xviii, 150, PI. IV, f. 16 (1852) ; Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, 100; 

 Miers, Proc. Zool. Poc, 1879, p. 36. 



Carapax longitudinally strongly arcuate, transversely nearly 

 f.at; antero-lateral angles prominent; meros of larger cheliped 

 externally granulate, a constriction of the upper margin near the 

 articulation with the carpus, lower crenulate or even denticulate. 

 (Carpus externally smooth, inner edge acute denticulate ; hand ex- 

 ternally finely granulate, above more plainlj^ so ; a crenulated 

 ridge near the inner lower margin and one or two near the fingers. 

 Fingers elevated, strongly compressed, the thumb suddenly nar- 

 rowed near the apex. 



Japan! E. Wilson ; Pondicherry ! Dr. T. B. Wilson fPhila. Acad.) ; 

 Japan (DeHaan) ; China (Edw. Stm.). 



33. aelasimas splendidas Stm. 



Qelasiinus splendidus Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 99. 



Inferior margin of orbit crenulate, externally rounded. Larger 



hand nearly smooth, internally with an oblique tubercular crest. 



Crest at the base of the fingers nearly obsolete. Fingers long, 



slender, slightly denticulate. Thumb with the apex excavate 



(Stm.). 



Hong Kong (Stm.). 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



I have not seen this species ; it, however, appears to be very 

 near annuHpes. 



27. Gelasimus minor Owen. 



Gelasimus minor Owen, in Beechey's Voyage of the Blossom ; Ap- 

 pendix ; Crustacea, p. 76, PI. XXIV, f. 2 (1831). 



Oahu, Sandwich Is. (Owen). 



Tliis species is very near the annuHpes of Edwards, the only 

 difference being the larger teeth of the fingers of tlie cheliped. 



28. Gelasimus triangularis A. M.-Edw. 



Oelasimus triangularis A. M.-E<Jw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., IX, p. 275, 



(1873). 



Is distinguished from ctdtrimanus, forcipafns, arcuatus, tetra- 

 gonon^ duiisiimieri, perj)lexus &i latreiUei by the carapax greatly 

 larger in front and smaller behind ; the lateral angles are spini- 

 form and directed strongly forward, the front between the eyes is 

 large and rounded. Larger cheliped externall}^ smooth, palmar 

 portion long and proximally inflated. Inner surface with a gran- 

 ular ridge, inner margin of fingers dentate, finger a little longer 

 than the thumb. This species is allied to G. winor by the form 

 of the hand, but is distinguished by the more triangular carapax 



(A. M.-E.). 



New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw,). 



29. Gelasimus gaimardi Edw. PI. x, f. 23. 



Gelasirmis gaimardi Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xviii. lijO, PI. IV, f. 17, 

 (1852) ; Heller Reise Novara, Crust., p. 38 (1867). 



Very near annuHpes, but having the front more prolonged and 

 more rounded below and the external [internal ?] crest of the hand 

 obtuse and not denticulate, resembling that of G. Jatreillei (Edw). 



Tongatabou (Edw.) ; Tahiti (Heller). 



30. Gelasimus panamensis Stm, PI. x, f. 24. 



Gelasimus pan amensis Stm., Ann. Lye, VII, p. 63 (I860); Smith, 

 Trans, Conn. Acad., II, 137, PI. IV, f. 5 (1870), 



Carapax depressed. Anterior and inferior margins of the meros 



of the larger cheliped crenulated, posterior rounded. Carpus very 



short, smooth • hand smooth externally and internally, fingers 



regularly tapering. 



Gulf of Fonseca! McNiel (Peab. Acad.). 



31. Gelasimus pugillator. 



Ocypoda pugillator Bosc, Hist. Xat. Crust., Edit. I, i, p. 197, 1802-3, 

 (teste Auct.) Edit. II, i, p. 250(1828) ; Latr. Hist. Crust, et Ins. vi, 

 47 (1803-4\ Ocypoda pugillator (■pars.^, Sa.j, Jour. Phila. Acad. I, 




1880J NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 151 



71 and 443 (1817-18). Oelasimus pugillator Latr., Nouv. Diet, d'- 

 Hist. Nat. Edit. II, p. 519 (1817) ; Desmarest Consid. 123 (1825), 

 Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. torn. cit. p. PI. IV, f. 14 (1852) ; Stm. Ann. 

 N. Y. Lye. VII, p. 62 (1859) ; Smith Trans. Conn. Acad. II, p, 136, 

 PI. IV, f. 7 (1870) ; Rep. U. S. Fish Comm. 1871-72, p. 545 (1875). 

 Gelastmus uocans (pars.), Gould, Invertebrata of Massachusetts, p. 

 325 (1841) ; Dekay, N. Y. Fauna, Crust., 14, PI. VI, f. 9 (1844). 



Carapax polished, swollen, nearly quadrate. Meros of the 

 larger cheliped with the outer surface rugose, upper and lower 

 margins crenulate. Carpus granulate externally, its inner margin 

 acute; hand inflated, the basal portion granulate and margined 

 above and below ; inner surface rounded, granulate, but without 

 any trace of a tuberculate ridge except one formed by a continua- 

 tion of the inner margin of the thumb. Thumb nearly straight, 

 a ridge on the outer surface, a large tubercle near the middle of 

 the inner margin, the extremity obliquely truncate. The finger is 

 longer than the thumb, i-egularly tapering and distally strongly 

 arcuate. There is a specimen in the collection of the Philadelphia 

 Academy from Surinam which appears to be intermediate, in the 

 characters of the hand, between this and G. vocator. The fingers 

 are shorter, the granules on the outside of the palm much more 

 prominent than, in typical pugillator, and there are traces, though 

 faintly indicated of a tubercular ridge on the inside of the 

 palm. 



JVew Jersey ! T. Say, Wm. Wood ; Manatee River ! S. Ashmead ; 

 Mauritius ! Guerin's Collection ; Greenpoint, L. I. ! S. F. Baird ; 

 Boston Earborf J. H. Slack (Phila. Acad.) ; Nantucket and Key 

 West, Fla. ! A. S. Packard ; Bluffton, S. G. ! Dr. Mellichamp ; 

 Savannah, Ga. ! no collector's name given (Peab. Acad.) ; Beaufort, 

 N. a H. E. Webster (Union College) ; New Haven, Conn., Eg- 

 mont Key and St. Augustine, Fla. (Smith) ; South Carolina and 

 Cayenne (Edw.). 



32. Gelasimus chlorophthalmus Edw. PI. x, f. 2B, 27. 



Gelasimus chlorophthalmus Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust. II, 54 (1837) ; Ann. 

 Sci. Nat. torn. cit. 150, PI. IV, f. 19 (1852); McLeay in Smith's 

 Zool. S. Africa, p. 64 (1838) ; White, Cat. B. M. Crust., p. 36 (1847); 

 Guerin, Iconog. Crust., PI. IV, f. 3; Hilgendorf in Decken's Reise 

 Crust, p. 85 (1867); Monatsberichte Berlin Akad., 1878, p. 803; 

 Gelasimus marionis Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., II, 53 (1837) ; Gelasi- 

 mus perplexus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. torn, cit., 150, PI. IV. ,f. 18 

 (1852) ; Heller, Novara Crust, p. 38, PI. V, f. 4 (1867) ; A. M.-Edw. 

 Nouv. Arch. Mus. IX, 274 (1873) ; teste Hilgendorf. 




i52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Carapax arcuate. Larger hand small, joints all smooth, fingers 

 short, frequently shorter than the palm ; the ridges on the inside 

 of the pahn either smooth or obsoletely granulate ; fingers dentic- 

 ulate, regularly arcuate. 



Island of Bourou ! Guerin's Collection (Phila. Academy); Mauritius 

 (Edw,, White); Zanzibar, Mozambique and Mascarenes (Hilgendorf ); 

 Java (Edw.), Ceylon and Madras (Heller); Neic Caledonia (A. M. 

 Edw.). 



I also understand that Maillard found this species at Reunion, 

 Injt I have not seen the work. 



Hilgendorf from an actual comparison of specimens says that 

 the perpJexus and chlorophthahnus of Edwards are the same. The 

 (r. stenodactylus of Lockington (Proc. California Acad., vii, p. 

 148, 1877), from West Coast of Lower California, would appear 

 from the description and a rough figure of the hand sent me by 

 the author to be near this species ; it certainly is not stenodactylus 

 of Edwards and Lucas. 



33. Gelasimus subcylindricus Stimpson. PI. x, f. 29. 



Gelasii/ius subcylindricus Stimpson, Ann. N. Y. Lye, vii, p. 63 (1859); 

 Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 137, PI. IV, f. 6 (1870), 



Carapax obscurely granulate. Margins of mei;os of larger 

 raeliped granulous. Hand internally without tubercular ridge 

 t'xcept two or thi'ee parallel curved rows near the base of the 

 Singers, externally granulate. Fingers closely resembling those 

 of G. vocator, the common east coast form (Smith). 



Matamoras on the Rio Grande (Smith, Stm.). 



3*. Gelasimus latreillei E Iw. PI. x, f. 31. 



Gelasimus latreillei Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 150, PI. IV, f. 

 20 (1852) ; A. M. Edw , Nouv. Arch. Mus., ix (1873). 



Carapax smooth, lateral angles far behind the front. Greater 

 cheliped smooth ; meros with the upper and posterior margins 

 rounded, the upper ending in a prominent tubercle, the lower 

 crenulate and prominent. Inner upper margin of carpus minutely 

 crenulate, the others rounded. Hand cristate above, externally 

 microscopically granulate, internally with a smooth ridge near 

 the lower margin, no tubercles present ; fingers slender, slightly 

 compressed, regularly arcuate, with fine tuberculations on the 

 cccludent margins, the extremity of the thumb subexcavate. 



Philippines f Dr. T. B. Wilson (Phila. Academy; Isle of Borabora 

 (Edw.); New Caledonia (A. M. Edw.). 




/^Froc. Ji. ]\r. S. PhO^id'. 2880. 1/ J^trdiAr TL ^. 



my 



J^-Ji ^Torimjuv JoAnjfoTu^ fA.ei^). J2-J^ AJ-alciricu proccifruz^ fA.tt^S). 





X- 



Da/l^'s JAvpi tn, ^fn^hcv. /Froc. ^.JV. S. Fhilud. I880. IlJ Au^zSr. JPL jr. 



' Oy JO. 



Jt ^<r^A, 



^Q -Jl. ^d. aZhopapillosa (l>.). 12 -l3. ^4c<tnt7iod . pzlostv (M). 





^//.;. JUy./- u. .■U..AU /I'tvc. ^.J^S. Fh^la^. JS80. III. M^r TIM. 



J.6. 



3~9 J..u,„-m,J f»f,rM,-/&,hi (Z.). J.:i-J4. Z r>ari<ins . J} 





/I'roo. ^.2V. 6\ J^hi/cz^. J880. IVJ jf,uM>, 

 ^ 3. 



/'/. J//. 



}t JlfJ-^A ■ 



J. —J6'. ^.r<7/tf/i«J»ri\i- />f/,>j;r f.M. ) t»rr . 







f Froc.ji.N.S. P?iilcui.J''if^'K Vj j-r^^,7,r J-/ xi// 



4- 







7>.,ns A\vpl. in AJa^k,. /P7-OC. Ji.J\r.S. PhUa^. 1880. VI J M^br . J^l.^TT. 



JJ — 20 . Tri^^pa Tnod^^fM . JB . 21-^22. Tt- r7<tt>i</eray ( Jf.) . 







J -JO. Triop,i rru}€i*:rta.. Ji M ^/3 Tr r747t>i<fera jU 



14. Jhl. p<tnt<i<i . B. 





jhaLr £:r-pl. in, ^/.«--6^ f Proc .4.MS. FhUod. 1880. VIII J Jf,^i7>r- J-/-, xn. 



J —</ -Po/t/o pa/fuiti , li IO~Jl. ^rcltftl . Jfonffrei/fnj-zj- (C). 



rj—J8. ApJir-Uf/ . ^inttV/ , H. Jp-2/. Fo7y<^ . JTo/hoffi (Jf.J. 





PROC.A, N,S, 1880 



PL, IX, 



KINGSLEYONCELASIMI. 





PROC. A, N. S, 1880. 



KINGSLEYONGELASIML 





1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 153 



35. Gelasimus tangieri Eydous. PI. x, f. 30. 



Oelasimus taiigieri Eydoux, Magazin de Zoologic, 1835, clvii, PL XVII; 

 Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., 1852, p. 151, PI. IV, f. 21; Heller, Crustaceeu 

 des siidlichen Europas, p. 101 (1863j. 



Carapax transversely nearly flat, the sides of the branchial 

 regions strongly arcuate ; above everywhere granulate ; lower 

 margin of orbit bimarginate. Meros of larger cheliped externally 

 roughened, the upper margin produced into an arcuate crest 

 which is fringed with hairs, the lower margin with two rows of 

 tubercles. Carpus elongate, externally with prominent tubercles, 

 an oblique ridge on the inner surface with a slender obtuse spine 

 at about the middle. Palm margined above, and armed with 

 spiniform tubercles, externally with depressed tubercles, inferior 

 margin denticulate to the tip of the thumb ; internally a row of 

 tubercles near the base of the fingers, a second runs obliquely 

 upward from the lower mai'gin, meeting a third running backward 

 from the articulation of the finger, elsewhere internally smooth. 

 Fingers elevated, strongh' compressed. Dactylus Avith the upper 

 margin and outer basal surface tuberculate ; the rest of the outer 

 surface finely granulate. Occludent margins of both fingers with 

 three rows of tubercles, the margin of the finger regularly arcuate, 

 that of the thumb with a prominence near the middle, Meral 

 joints of the ambulatory feet denticulate above and below. 



Tangier! Guerin's Collection (Eydoux's Types); West Africa! (Du- 



chaillu); [?] Bahia ! E. Wilson (Phila. Acad.); Cadiz and Coasts of 



Morocco (Edwards). 



Edwards' figure is very poor. 



36. Gelasimus perlatus Herklots, PI, s, f, 25. 



Gelasimus perlatus Herklots, Additamenta ad Famiam, p, 16 (1851'; 

 Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 151 (1852); Hilgendorf, Monats- 

 berichte Berlin. Akad., 1878, p. 806. 



Carapax arcuate in both directions, above with patches of 

 o-ranules more prominent on the anterolateral portions. Larger 

 cheliped much smaller than is usual in the genus. Meros granu- 

 late, the posterior margin rounded, the anterior produced in an 

 arcuate crest; carpus and hand externally granulate. Hand 

 cristate above, internally without tubercular ridges, fingers com- 

 pressed. 



Guinea! E. Wilson (Phila. Academy); Boutry, West Const of Africa 

 (Herklots); Loando, Chinchoxo, Liberia (Hilgendorf),. 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF . [1880. 



This species is closely allied to tangieri^ but differs in the pro- 

 portionately smaller cheliped without tubercular ridges on the 

 inner surface and in the more sparse tuberculation of the carapax. 



* * Male Abdomen five-jointed, 



37. Gelasimus stenodactylus Edw. et Lucas. PI. x, f. 33-35. 



GJagimus gtenodactylus Edw. and Lucas, in D'Orbigny's Voyage 

 Crust, p. 26, PI. XI, f. 2 (1843) ; Nicollet in Gay's Hist, of Chili, 

 Zoologie iii, p. 105 (1849); Edw. Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xviii, 149 

 (1852). Gelasimus gibbosus Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., II, p. 141, 

 PI. II, f. 11, PL IV, f. 8 (1870), Lockington, 1. c. Gelasimus lepto- 

 dactylus et poeyi Giieriu MS. 



Carapax smooth, transversely flat, the regions sti'6ngly gibbous. 

 Meros and carpus of larger cheliped elongate, meros smooth, its 

 angles rounded, carpus externally unconspicuously granulate, its 

 inner margin acute denticulate. Hand externally smooth or 

 granulate, a tubercular ridge on the inside of the palm, running 

 obliquely from the lower margin to the groove in which the carpus 

 folds. Fingers much longer than the palm, internally denticulate. 



Mexico ! Cuba! Brazil ! Guerin's Collection (Phila. Acad.) ; Gulf 

 of Fonseca! McNiel (Peab. Acad.) ; Gulf of California I W. N. 

 Lockington (Brown University) ; Valparaiso (Edw. and Luc). 



Of the following species I can say but little. I have not seen 

 specimens which would answer to the descriptions and figui'es, 

 while the descriptions are so meagre that I cannot decide regard- 

 ing their affinities. 



38. Gelasimus variegatus Heller, Verhandlung der Zool. Bot. Gesellschaft, Wien, 



1862, p. 521. 



" G. annulari affinis sed brachium chelipedum ad raarginem super- 

 iorem carinatum et dentatum, index dactylo paulo brevior acumin- 

 atus. Madras.''^ 



This is described as one of the specimens collected b}' the 

 Novara in her voyage around the world, but in Dr. Heller's final 

 memoir on the Crustacea of that expedition, this species is not 

 mentioned. 



39. Gelasimus variatus Hess, Archiv. fiir Naturgeschiclite, XXXT, 146, PI. VI, f. 7 



(1865). PI X, f. 32. 



Cephalothorax smooth, greatly swollen. Front between the 

 eyes small. Greater cheliped of male somewhat longer than the 

 breadth of the carapax. There is a large triangular depression at 




1880.] NATTRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



the base of the index finger ; the index finger is somewhat bent, 

 tlie thumb is straight ; both are tuberculate on the inner margin. 



Sydney, Australia . 



40. Gelasimus porcellanus White, Cat. B. M. Crust., p. 36 (sine descr.), Adams and 



White, Voyage of the Samarang, Crustacea, p. 50 (1848), Edw., Ann. Sci. 

 Nat., Ill, .wiii, p. 151 (1852). 



" Eye pedicels veiy long, frontal portion of earapax not nar- 

 rowed at the base ; hind part of earapax much longer than the 

 sides. Fore-legs with the lower claws thickened at the end, the 

 inner margins of both claws with four larger tubercles amongst 

 the smaller crenules. Hab., Borneo.'''' (Adams and White.) 



41. Gelasimus inversus Hoffmann, Recb. Faun., Madagascar, p. 29, Pl. IV, f. 23-2G. 



Madagascar. 



I have never seen this work, the quotation being taken from the 

 Zoological Record. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



1. G. maracoani. 19. G. brevipes (after 5Iilne-Edw.). 



2. G. heterocheles. 20. G. vocator. 



3. G. bellator. 21. G. minai (drawn from type). 



4. G'. s^/?//er«.s (after Milne-Edw.) 22. G. annuHpes. 



5. G. heterophthalmus. 2-3. G. gaimardi. 



6. G. heteropleurus. 24. G. panamensis. 



7. G. cultrimaau^. 25. G. perlatus. 



8. G. marionis (after Desmarest). 26. G. chlorophtkalmus. 



9. G. forcipatus. 27. G. perplexus (after Edwards). 



10. G. arcuatus. • 28. G. lacteun. 



11. G. tetragonon. 29. G. subcglindricus (after Smith). 



12. G'./orcf/Js (after Milne-Edwards). 30. G. taagieri {irova. ty^^^). 



13. G. longidigitum. 31. G. latreillei. 



14. G. smithii. 32. G. variaius (.after Hess). 



15. G. M?-i'i7/e2' (after Milne-Edw.). 33. G. s(ert.odaclyhts{h-on\'QvA.zi\). 



16. G. dussiimieri (after Milne-Edw.). 34. G. stenodactylus (after Edwards 



17. G. rubripes (after Hombron et et Lucas). 



Jacquinot). 35. G. stenodactylus (from ISIekico). 



18. G. signatus (after Hess). 




156 proceedings of the academy of [1880. 



April 6. 



The Tresideiit, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Forty -two persons present. 



The death of Wm. Theodore Eoepper, a correspondent, was 

 announced. 



April 13. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a New Species of Catosto- 

 mus (C. cypho), from the Colorado River," by Wm. X. Locking- 

 ton, was presented for publication. 



The death of M. Laporte, Count de Castelnau, a correspondent, 

 was aimounced. 



Remarks on Pond Life. — Prof. Leidy remarked, that at the 

 invitation of Mr. Joseph W. Griscom, he had recently visited 

 some little ponds in the vicinity of AVoodbury, New Jersey, 

 which were remarkable for the profusion of minute invertebrate 

 life. The ponds oceup}' hollows in the woods, and consist mostly 

 of accumulated rain water, though several are likewise supplied 

 by springs. Several are completely di'ied up during the summer. 

 Mr. Griscom says they continue rich in animal life even during 

 the winter. 



Of animals, entomostracans are. exceedingly numerous and 

 varied. Amono- some of the most beautiful and conspicuous were 

 noticed abundance of Brancliipus, of which two species from, 

 the same locality have been recently described by Mr. Ryder, 

 under the names of Chirocephalus holmanii and Streptucejihalus 

 sealii. There are also wonderful multitudes of many species of 

 copepods, ostracods and cladoceres, several of which are con- 

 spicuous for their large size and bright red color. 



In one of the ponds a bright green Hydra was frequent, and in 

 another a pinkish one was abundant. These appear to be the 

 H. gracilis and H. carnea of Agassiz, but it is a question whether 

 they are not the same as the H. viridis and H. fusca of Europe. 

 Some of the Hydras were of a bright red color, and Mr. Griscom 

 intimated that this was due to the pinkish variety feeding on red 

 entomostracans. This was confirmed by some of the pink ones 

 which were brought home and kept in a jar with abundance of 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 15*1 



red Cyclops, becomiug, after a few clays, as a result of feeding- on 

 the latter, of the same orange-red hue. Subsequentl^y, when food 

 became scarce, the red Hj'dras lost their bright color. 



In one of the ponds, the stems of rushes and dead branches of 

 trees were invested with a bright grass-green stratum, consisting 

 of a bright green Vorticella, probably the V. fasciculafa of Midler. 

 The green color is dependent on chloroph^'l granules, as an 

 element of the structure, and not on food. The body of the 

 animal ranged from O'lOS mm. long by 0"Ofi mm. broad, to 0'12 

 mm. long by 0'09 mm. broad. A few measured were 0'1.5 mm. long 

 by 0*102 mm. broad at the peristome. In a large active bunch, 

 most of them measured 0-09 mm. long and broad. The pedicels 

 were from five to eioht times the length of the bodv. 



In another pond, the water was rendered turbid from the pro- 

 fusion of Volrox glohator. In a bay of this pond filled with dead 

 leaves, a portion of water taken into a jar appeared opalescent 

 from the quantity of minute white flakes it contained. These, on 

 examination, proved to be Spirostomum amhiguum. In the same 

 pond, the Spatterdock, Nuphar ad vena, was just about unfolding 

 its leaves, and mau}^ of these were thickly invested with a clear 

 jelly, dotted with bright green spots. These proved to be Sfentor 

 yjolymorphus. On the underside of a few open leaves on the sur- 

 face of the water, were many spots of bright green and dull red- 

 dish. The former consisted of groups of the green Vorticella 

 before mentioned, the other consisted of attached groups of a 

 lilac- or amethystine-colored Stent07\ probably S. igneus. Similar 

 groups of this Stenfor were observed on a floating log, which had 

 been in the water since last 3'ear, as it exhibited attached many 

 statoblasts of a Plumafella. Ehrenberg describes S. igneus as 

 bright yellow or vermilion ; Stein as blood red, or often lilac- 

 colored, or vermilion to brownish red. Ehrenberg found it at- 

 tached to Hottonia. Stein says he never saw it fixed, but alwaj'S 



swimmmg. 



The Woodbury variety which might be named S. amethystinus, 

 was abundant and invariably found in conspicuous groups, visible 

 to the unaided eye, and when detached, thougli the animals swam 

 about actively, they were not onl}' disposed to become fixed, but 

 they actualh^ gathered together in groups. They all contained an 

 abundance of chloropbyl, apparently derived from food, but the 

 exterior structure was invariably of a distinct amethystine hue, 

 dependent on fine molecules. The color was more pronounced in 

 the longitudinal bands approaching the peristome. The nucleus 

 was spherical. 



In the attached state, when the animal was fullj^ extended and 

 presented a trumpet shape, it was 0*6 mm. long by 0"18 mm. wide 

 at the peristome. This was a common size, but some measured 

 were O'Si mm. long. In the conical form, when swimming, indi- 

 viduals ranged from 0'2!r to 0-45 mm. long. In the most con- 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



•tracted condition of oval shape, they measured 0"18 mm. long by 

 0"15 mm. broad. The nucleus, 0*03 mm. in diameter. 



Ehrenberg and Stein give for S. igneus one-sixth of a line 

 length, so that the variety indicated would appear to be much 

 longer. 



April 20. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



April 27- 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 

 Lionel S. Beale, of London^ was elected a correspondent. 



May 4. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Tice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty -eight persons present. 



May 11. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed in the 

 Journal of the Academ}'. 



" The Terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting the Cooks or Harvey 

 Islands," by Andrew Garrett. 



" The Placenta and Generative Apparatus of the Elephant," 

 by Henry C. Chapman, M. D. 




1880.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 159 



May 18. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Structure of the Oraug Outang," by 

 Henrj' C. Chapman, M. D., was presented for publication. 



The death of Wm. Logan Fox, a member, was announced. 



A fine portrait in oil, by Uhle, of Isaac Lea, LL. D., was pre- 

 sented to the Academy, and the following i-esolution was unani- 

 mously adopted : 



Re.Holved, That the thanks of the Academy be presented to 

 Dr. Isaac Lea, for his gift of an admirable portrait of himself, 

 which has been long desired by the societ}', and especially by the 

 senior members, who are cognizant of his valuable contributions 

 to science, as well as towards the prosperit}^ of the Academy. 



May 25. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



The " Proceedings of the Mineralogical and Geological Section 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, for the 

 years 18lt,18t8 and 1879," was presented for publication. 



Henry S. Gratz, R. S. Peabody, Mrs. R. S. Peabody and Wil- 

 liam Barbeck, were elected members. 



Adolf E. Nordenskiold of Stockholm, Carl Ochsenius of 

 Marburg, Oscar Hertwig and Richard Hertwig of Jena, were 

 elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF . [1880. 



ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE ORA.NG OUTANG. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. 



Tarious parts of the Orang, Siniia satyi'iis, L., have Ibeen dis- 

 sected, described, and figured bj Tiedemann,^ Owen,^ Saiidilbrt,^ 

 Cuvier,^ Schroeder yan der Kolk and Yrolik,^ Rolleston,^ Selb^','^ 

 Huxley,^ Bischoff,^ Barnard,^'' Langer," Gratiolet,!^ Spitzka,^^ and 

 others. It was hardly to be expected, the subject having been 

 investigated by such eminent observers, that I could hope to find 

 ■anj'thing particularly new to science. It occurred to me, how- 

 ever, that it might not be altogether useless to bring to the notice 

 of the Academy a general resume of the results of jny dissection 

 of the Orang that died at the Philadelphia Zoological Garden in 

 Februarj" last, more especially as the memoirs referred to below 

 are scattered through the journals, and are often limited to descrip- 

 tions of certain parts of the animal only, such as the brain, mus- 

 cular svstem, etc. 



My Orang was a j'oung male, supposed to be about three years 

 old. The following measurements were taken : From vertex to 

 rump, 16 inches ; upper extremity, 20|^ inches ; arm, "7 inches ; fore- 

 arm, 8 inches; hand, 5j inches; lower extremity, 17^ inches; 

 thigh, 5 inches ; leg, 6 inches ; foot, 6^ inches. What struck me at 

 once was the length of the upper extremitj-, it being 3 inches longer 



1 Tiedemann, Zeit. Phys. Darmstadt, 1837. 



2 Oweu, Proc. Zool. Soc, i, 1830, 1831. 



■^ Saudifort, Ontleerlavindige Beschryving, Leideu, 1840. 

 ^ Cuvier and Laurillard, Planches, 1849. 



° Schroeder van der Kolk and Vrolik, Verhandelingen Kou. Nied. Inst. , 

 1849; Verslagen Kon. Acad., 1862. 

 fi Rolleston, Nat. Hist. Rev., 1861. 

 ^ Selby, Nat. Hist. Rev., 1861. 

 ^ Huxley, Med. Times, 1864. 

 « Bischoff, Munich Abhand. 1870. 

 ^^ Barnard, Proc. American Assoc, 1876. 

 '' Langer, Sitzungsberichte, "Wien, 1879. 

 ^'^ Gratiolet, Plis Cerebraux des Primates, no date. 

 " Spitzka, Journal of Mental and Nervous Diseases, 1879. 



Note. — I regret that when dissecting the Gorilla I was unacquainted 

 with Mr. Macalister's valuable paper in the Proceedings of Royal Irish 

 Academy for 1873^. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



tlian the lower one, the Orang agreeing nearly in this respect with the 

 Gorilla' which 1 dissected, the difference in the extremities in that 

 animal being Sj inches, whereas in the Chimpanzee- I found only 

 a difference of If inches. The foot in the Orang, however, was 

 i inch larger than the hand, whereas in the Gorilla the hand Avas • 

 ^ inch larger than the foot ; in the Chimpanzee the difference in 

 this respect was f inch in favor of the foot. The foot in the Orang, 

 however, resembled superficially a hand much more than it does 

 in the Gorilla. Indeed the distinctness of hand and foot super- 

 ficiall}^ is more marked in the Gorilla than in the other anthro- 

 poids. I found the thoracic, abdominal and pelvic viscerae per- 

 fectly healthy. The animal seemed to have died from congestion 

 of the brain ; there was also some cerebritis. As the osteology 

 of the Orang has been thoroughl}^ described by Prof. Owen^ and 

 others it will not be worth while for me to dwell on that part of 

 its organization. I will pass therefore to the muscular system, 

 and more particularly to that of the extremities, as being the 

 most interesting as compared with man. 



Muscular Systems — In Prof. Bischoff 's* paper on the Gorilla an 

 excellent figure is given of the muscles of the face of the Orang, 

 from a preparation by Rudinger. These muscles were described 

 by Prof. Owen,-^ but not figured. The same facial muscles are 

 found in man and the Orang with the exception that there is but 

 one zygomaticus possibly corresponding to the zygomaticus minor 

 of man, though on account of its size it may represent both the 

 z3'gomaticus major and minor. The facial muscles in the Orang 

 are not as well differentiated as in man, rather hanging together. I 

 noticed that the digastricus had only the posterior head. There 

 was nothing peculiar, however, about the sterno cleido mastoid, 

 omohyoid, or the scaleni. The omocervicalis or elevator claviculte 

 passed from the transverse process of the atlas to the acromial 

 end of the clavicle, as I found it in the Chimpanzee and in the 

 Gorilla. The pectoralis major arose in three portions : the first, 

 from sternum and first intercostal space ; the second, from sternal 

 part of thiixl, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and the third from costal 



' Proc. of Acad, of Nat. Sciences, Philadelphia, 1878. 

 - Proc. of Acad, of Nat. Sciences, Philadelphia, 1879. 

 =* Trans, of Zool. Society, 1835. 

 * Beitrage, Munich Abhand., 1879. 

 » Proc. of Zool. Society, i, 1830, p. 28. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



portion of fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh ribs. This distinction in 

 origin is partly visible even in man. There was nothing notice- 

 able about the pectoralis minor or subclavius, supraspinati or 

 teres. The latissimus dorsi, as in all monkeys, gave off the slip 

 the latissimo condyloides, which, however, in the Orang scarcely 

 reached the condyle, and was pierced hy the ulnar nerve. The 

 biceps, triceps, and brachialis anticus were well developed, and 

 the external cutaneous nerve passed through the coraco-bracllialis 

 as in man. The anterior aspect of the forearm was quite human. 

 The pronator radii teres arose b}^ two heads, between which passed 

 the median nerve. The flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris and the 

 palmaris longus were well developed. The flexor sublimis did not 

 differ from that of man. The flexor profundus was rather sepa- 

 rated into two portions, one for the under and the other for the 

 remaining fingers. There was no trace of a flexor longus pol- 

 licis either as a distinct muscle or as a slip from the flexor pro- 

 fundus. The abductor, flexor brevis, adductor and opponens 

 pollicis, abductor flexor brevis, and opponens minimi digiti, and 

 the lumbricales were all present. As regards the back of the fore- 

 arm, the supinator longus arose higher than in man. The supi- 

 nator brevis, and extensor radialis longior and brevior, extensor 

 ossi metacarpi pollicis and exterior secundi internodii pollicis did 

 not differ from those in man. The absence of an extensor primi inter- 

 nodii pollicis was noticeable, as was also the fact of the extensor 

 indicis giving a slip to the middle finger and the extensor minimi 

 digiti one to the ring finger, making eight tendons supplying the 

 back of the fingers with the four from the extensor communis 

 digitorum. The interossei were the same as in man. Briefly', the 

 upper extremity of the Orang in its muscles differed essentially 

 from that of man in the absence of the flexus longus, and primi 

 internodii pollicis and in the presence of the additional tendons 

 to the ring and middle fingers. The Orang agreed with the 

 Gorilla in not having a flexor longus pollicis, but disagreed with 

 it in having the pronator radii teres arising by two heads, in the 

 presence of a palmaris longus, in the additional tendons for ring 

 and middle fingers, and in not having the extensor primi internodii 

 pollicis. As compared with the Chimpanzee, the Orang agreed 

 in reference to the pronator radii teres and palmaris longus, but in 

 the extensor ossi metacarpi pollicis being single, and in the 

 absence of the flexor longus pollicis as a slip from the pro- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



fundus, and in the presence of the additional extensor tendons it 

 differed. 



As might be expected from the elongated form of the pelvis and 

 the absence of the round ligament of the hip-joint in the Orang, the 

 glutei muscles differ somewhat from those of man. The glutseus 

 magnus (PI. 12, e) in the Orang — not as large or as fleshy as its glu- 

 teus medius — is inserted together with the tensor vaginae femoris, 

 which is scantily developed, if at all, into the fascia lata of the thigh, 

 the glutieus medius being inserted into the great trochanter. Parallel 

 with the lower edge of the glutteus medius (PI. 12, c), is seen a small 

 muscle rising from the edge of the great sciatic notch, and inserted 

 into the great trochanter (PI. 12, b). This muscle seems to corres- 

 pond to part of the pyriformis in man, the sacral portion of the 

 muscle not being developed in the Orang. The glutseus minimus 

 is represented by a muscle arising from the external edge of the 

 ileum, and passing almost verticall}^ downwards until inserted into 

 the great trochanter, close to the pyriformis (PI. 12, a). At first 

 sight this muscle seems much displaced if it is the gluteus mini- 

 mus, but if one can imagine the ileum (PI. 12, d) in the Orang to 

 be widened outwardly to the same extent as seen in man, there 

 would be little or nothing anomalous about the muscle. From 

 the position of the glutwus minimus in the Orang, it would seem 

 that this muscle would supplement, to a certain extent, the want 

 of the ligamentum teres, which, it Avill be remembered, is absent 

 in this ape. 



In the Chimpanzee there is so little that is peculiar about the 

 gluteus minimus that I had no difficulty in identifying it, and the 

 same can be said of the Gorilla. In the account of the Chimpan- 

 zee by TrailP however, the glutreus minimus is described as a 

 distinct new muscle, the scansorius ; the muscle I have described 

 as pyriformis, Traill regarded as the glutanis minimus, the pyri- 

 formis, according to Traill, being absent. Since then, this so- 

 called scansorius muscle has been referred to b}^ Bischoff", Owen, 

 Huxley and others, as a distinct muscle. With all deference to 

 such eminent anatomists, I cannot see any essential difference 

 betAveen the scansorius of Traill, and the glutaeus minimus in man.^ 



1 Wernerian Transactions, p. 18, 1821. 



^ On looking up the literature upon the anatomy of the Orang, I find 

 t'liat in 1876 Prof: Baruard, o]). cit., considered the scansorius as being 

 homologous with the glutaius minimus, and mentioned in his paper that 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The obturators, gemelli and qiiadratus femoris, were well de- 

 veloped. There was nothing peculiar about the muscles of the 

 thigh either on the anterior or posterior surface ; the rectus 

 arose, liowever, only from the inferior spine of the ileum. In 

 the leg anteriorly, I noticed the tibialis anticus divided into 

 two tendons ; otherwise, the muscles were as in man. The 

 peroneus longus and brevis were well developed, but there was 

 no peroneus tertius. The soleus, as usual in monkey's, had only 

 the plantar head, and there was no trace of a plantaris, although,, 

 according to Sandifort, it is present. The flexor longus digi- 

 torum supplied the perforating tendons for the second and fifth, 

 the flexor longus hallucis those for the third and fourth digits. 

 There was no slip from the longus hallucis for the big toe, 

 that muscle, therefore, except from its origin, scarcely deserves 

 that name. The flexor brevis digitorum supplied the perforated 

 tendons for the second and third toes. Those for the fourth 

 and fifth came off from the flexor longus digitorum. The 

 tendon for the fifth toe was not perforated. There was a connect- 

 ing slip between the third and fourth tendons. The external head 

 only of the flexor accessorius was pi'esent. In addition to the ab- 

 ductor, flexor brevis and adductor of the hallux, there was a well- 

 marked opponens hallucis. The lumbricales for the second and 

 fifth digits came from the flexor longus digitorum, those for the 

 third and fourth digits from the flexor longus hallucis. The ab- 

 ductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti were well developed, but 

 there was no transversus pedis. The interossei were like those 

 of the hand, Briefl}^, as compared with man, the leg and foot of the 

 Orang difl'er in the absence of the peroneus tertius, plantaris, flexor 

 longus hallucis and transversus pedis, in the fibular origin of the 

 soleus, and external origin of accessorius onl}^, in the distribution 

 of the perforating and perforated tendons for the toes, in the inter- 

 ossei, and in the presence of an opponens for the big toe. In this 

 latter respect the Orang differs not only from man, but from all the 

 other monkeys and anthropoids, the foot having a verj' hand-like 

 appearance, as compared with that of the Gorilla and Chimpanzee. 

 The foot of the Orang differs further in the absence of a special 



Prof. Humphrey held essentially the same opinion. I was not aware, until 

 I had finished my dissection, of the views previously published by these 

 anatomists, and am glad to have been able, independently, to come to the 

 same conclusion. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1G5 



flexor for the big toe. This is supplemented to a certain extent by the 

 opponeus, and in a parti}' developed accessorius. The perforated 

 tendon for the fifth toe in the Gorilla came from the flexor longus 

 hallucis, whereas in the Chimpanzee and Orang it is supplied hy 

 the tendon of the longus digitorum. If Prof. Huxley's canon be 

 accepted that the distinction between a hand and a foot consists 

 in the latter possessing tarsal bones, the peroneus longus and 

 brevis, the short extensor and short flexor muscles, then the pos- 

 terior extremity of the Orang terminates in a foot. It appears 

 to me, however, that the difference between the hand and foot in 

 man, the Gorilla, Chimpanzee, and the lower monkej^s, is greater 

 than that observed between the corresponding members of the 

 Orang, 



Alimentary Canal, etc. — It is usually stated that the uvula is 

 absent in the Orang, and, on looking into the mouth, at first sight 

 this appears to be the case, as it does not hang down as in man 

 between the pillars of the fances — nevertheless it exists. I found 

 it pointing directly backwards in a straight line from the posterior 

 palatine spine. It contained the azygos uvula? muscle. Prof. 

 Bischofl"^ mentions also finding the uvula in the Orang, The cir- 

 cumvallate papillae of the tongue are disposed in the form of a 

 /\ , as in man ; I found this to be the case in the female Chimpan- 

 zee,- of which I gave an account, and also in a male which I had 

 the opportunity recentl}' of dissecting. The salivar}^ glands with 

 their ducts were well developed, the submaxillary being ver}- 

 large both relatively and absolutel}' , as compared with man. The 

 stomach in the Orang (PI. ISjfig. 1) is not so human in its form as 

 that of either the Gorilla or the Chimpanzee, the cardiac portion, two- 

 thirds of the stomach, beinsf more elongated and constricted from the 

 pyloric part, which was tubular. The greater curvature measured 

 6 inches, the less 4. The small intestine was 8 feet 4 inches in 

 length, the large 4 feet. The constant presen(-e of valvula? con- 

 niventes in the small intestine of the Orang appears even at the 

 present day questionable b}' some anatomists. In speaking of 

 these folds occurring in the Gorilla, Bischoff^ refers to Owen not 

 finding them in the Orang, while they are said to exist by Saudi- 

 fort. Maj-er and Barkow. As to his own opinion on the subject, 

 he expresses himself as folloAvs : " Die beiden jetzt auf's Neue 



1 Beitrage sur Gorilla, p. 37, ^ Op, cit., p, 57. ^ Op, cit., pp. 40, 41, 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



von mir untersiichten Diinndai'me cles Orangs aiis Dresden nnd 

 aus der hiesio-en Z00I02:. Sammlnno- sowie der eines Zweiten 

 Chimpanzee aus Dresden, zeigen keine Spur der genannten Fal- 

 ten. Ich halte nach alle diesem ihre Gegenwart beim Orang nnd 

 Chimpanzee fur zweifelhaft ; beim Gorilla, wenn gleich in 

 schwaeher Entwicklung, fiir gewiss ; individuelle Yerseheiden- 

 heiten sind doch in einem solchen Punekte nicht wahrscheinlich." 

 I foimd indications of valvuhie conniventes in the Orang, but of 

 the most rudimentary character as compared with man. In places 

 they run parallel with the long axis of the intestine (PI. 14, fig. 2), 

 then transversely as in man (PI. 14, fig. 3), then again as at first, 

 and afterwards again transversel3\ They are found in parts of the 

 jejunum and ileum. The valvulse conniventes I found very well 

 developed in the male Chimpanzee (PI. 14, fig. 4), but not at all in 

 the female. I noticed in the Orang the villi and solitary glands ; 

 the Peter's glands were very well developed. I counted fifteen, 

 some of which measured 4 inches in length. The coecum and ileo- 

 colic valve did not ditfer from the same parts in man. The ver- 

 miform appendix attained a length of 6| inches absolutely, and 

 was relatively much larger than that of man, reminding one of 

 the condition of this structure in the human embryo. As regards 

 the large intestine, the only noticeable peculiarities were the 

 large size of the solitary glands, and the fact that the mucous 

 membrane of the ascending colon was thrown into well-marked 

 longitudinal folds, with transverse connecting ones, exhibi ting- 

 quite a reticulated appearance (PI. 14, fig. 1). This is not the 

 case in the Chimpanzee. The peritoneum was disposed as in 

 man. The transverse colon was connected with the stomach, 

 as was also the case in the Chimpanzee, and Prof. Bischoff"'^ 

 noticed that this obtains also in the Gorilla. As is well known, the 

 transverse colon in the monkeys can be raised entirely without 

 drawing up with it the stomach, with the exception sometimes 

 of the Macacques, in which I have noticed a slight peritoneal 

 connection between pyloric part of stomach and colon, indi- 

 cating a beginning of a gastrocolic omentum ? I did not notice 

 anything peculiar about the spleen or pancreas. The quadrate lobe 

 of liver was absent ; the spigelian lobe, however, was very well 

 developed ; the hepatic duct opened at a little distance from the 

 pancreatic. I found in the small intestine, five fine specimens of 



1 Op. cit., p. 39. 




1880. J NAT ORAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 16t 



the Ascaris lumhricoides, and one in the large, and in the coecum 

 a Trichocephalus dispar. I believe this is the first time these 

 entozoa have been found in the same anthropoid. According to 

 Diesingi the Ti'ichocephahis is found in the Orang, and Cobbold- 

 states that Murie sent him aa Ascaris from the Chimpanzee. 



Respiratory System. — In the Orang, as in the Gorilla and Chim- 

 panzee, particularly in the males, the ventricles of the larj^nx are 

 prolonged into the so-called laryngeal pouches. In 3' oung speci- 

 mens of the anthropoids, these pouches, though not so well devel- 

 oped as in the adults, can usually, however, be perfectly identified. 

 In dissecting m3^ Orang, after removing the skin in the cervical 

 region, I noticed what appeared to me to be the laryngeal pouches, 

 and by passing a tube into one of the ventricles of the larj-nx, the 

 pouch of that side could be readily inflated. On tracing, however, 

 the anterior wall of the pouch dowuiward, I noticed that it was 

 attached to the front of the sternum and clavicle, and on opening 

 the pouch and following its posterior wall, I found it attached to 

 the back of the sternum and first rib. Thus the interior of the 

 jDouch corresponded with the space between the two laj^ers of the 

 cervical fascia in man, usually filled with fat and absorbent glands, 

 but in the Orang it is empty and communicating with the interior 

 of the larynx. The pouch was not lined with mucous membrane, 

 resembling the remaining fascia, which was indeed continuous with 

 it. Supposing that mj" dissection really- represented the true rela- 

 tion of these parts, then, morphologically- speaking, the larj'ngeal 

 pouch in the anthropoids would be homologous with and replace 

 the two laj-ers of the cervical fascia in man, so familiar to the 

 surgeon. There was nothing especially noticeable about the vocal 

 cords, epiglottis or trachea. The lungs (PL 13, fig. 2), however, 

 were not divided into lobes as in the Gorilla and Chimpanzee. 



Vascular System. — I did not notice about the heart anything 

 especially different from the human. In reference to the origin 

 of the vessels, however, the innominate gave off" the left carotid 

 and continuing an eighth of an inch then divided into the right 

 carotid and right subclavian, the left subclavian coming oflT sepa- 

 rately from the aorta (PI. 13, fig. 2). In the Gorilla and male 

 Chimpanzee I found the disposition of these vessels the same as 

 in man, which is the case in the Orang, according to Sandifort. In 

 the female Chimpanzee there were two innominates, a long and a 



^ Helm., vol. ii, p. 534. 2 Entozoa, p. 291. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF TflE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



short one, the latter dividing into left carotid and subclavian. 

 The arteries and veins of the extremities did not differ from those 

 of the Gorilla and Chimpanzee. I found in the Orang, as in them, 

 the " long saphenous artery " accompanying the nerve and vein 

 of same name. The mesenteric vessels exhibited loops along the 

 borders of intestine. 



Genito-urinarij Apparatus. — The general appearance of these 

 structures resembled strikingly those of man (PL 15). The 

 kidne}'- measured 1^ inches in length, and exhibits only one 

 papilla. The ureters were 5 inches long. The bladder was 2 

 inches in length and 1 in diameter. The testicles measured | of 

 an inch in length, and were situated near the inguinal canal. The 

 cavity of the tunica vaginalis testes was shut off from the general 

 peritoneal cavity. The vas deferens was 4 inches in length, the 

 seminal vesicle 1 inch ; the seminal duct was yery short. The 

 caput gallinaginis was well developed, as was also the prostate. 

 The penis measured 2 inches in length, the glans was of cylindri- 

 cal shape. There was no bone in the penis. The Cowper's glands 

 were relatively large. 



Nervous System — The brain of the Orang has been figured by 

 Tiedemann, Sandifort, Schroeder van der Kolk and Yrolik, Gra- 

 tiolet, Kolleston, etc. On account, however, of the few illustrations 

 extant, and of the importance of the subject, I avail myself of the 

 opportunity of presenting several views of my Orang's brain (Pi's 

 16 and 11), which was removed from the skull only a few hours after 

 death. The membranes were in a high state of congestion, and a 

 little of the surface of the left hemisphere had been disorganized 

 by disease, otherwise the brain w^as in good condition. It weighed 

 exactly 10 ounces. The brain of tlie Orang in its oeneral contour 

 resembled that of man more than those of either of the Chimpan- 

 zees which I examined. In these the brain was more elonaated. 

 The general character of the folds and fissures in the brain of the 

 Orang, Chimpanzee, and man are the same, there are certain 

 minor differences, however, in their disposition in all three. The 

 fissure of Silvius in the Orang runs up and down the posterior 

 branch pursuing only a slightly backward direction, the anterior 

 branch is small. The fissure of Rolando, or central fissure, quite 

 apparent, is, however, situated slightly more forward in the Orang 

 than in man. It differentiates the frontal from the parietal lobe. 

 The parieto- occipital fissure is well marked, bordered externally 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1G9 



bj the first occipital fold it descends internally on the mesial side 

 of the hemisphere, separating the parietal from the occipital lobes. 

 In the Oraiig, the parieto-occipital fissure does not reach the cal- 

 carine, being separated from it by the " deuxieme plis de passage 

 interne " of Gratiolet, or " untere innere Scheitelbogen-Windung" 

 of Bischofl!^'. I have noticed this separation as an anomaly more 

 than once in man. 



According to Bischoff, this disposition obtains in the Gorilla, 

 and seems to be usual also in the Chimpanzee. In the female Chim- 

 panzee, however, on the left side I found the parieto-occipital 

 fissure passing into the calcarine, as in man. The frontal lobe is 

 easily distinguished from the parietal by the fissure of Rolando, 

 and from the temporal by the fissure of Sjdvius. In the Orang it 

 is higher, wider, and more arched than in the Chimpanzee. The 

 anterior central convolution in front of the central fissure runs 

 into the post-central convolution above and below, as in man. It 

 is difficult, however, to identify the three frontal convolutions 

 seen in man and the Chimpanzee, the frontal lobe of the Orang 

 dividing ratlier into two convolutions, the middle one being badly 

 defined. This is due somewhat to the length of the pre-central 

 fissure, which is as long as the fissure of Rolando, extending 

 farther upward than in man. There was nothing particularly 

 noticeable about the base of the frontal lobe ; on the mesial 

 surface it ran into the parietal. The part above the calloso- 

 marginal fissure in the Orang is not as distinctly divided into 

 convolutions as in man, though these are not constantly present 

 even in all human brains. The parietal lobe is separated from 

 the frontal by the central fissure, from the occipital and temporal 

 incompletely, by the parieto-occipital and Sylvian fissures. The 

 posterior-central convolution is well defined. The parietal fissure 

 in the Orang is more striking than that of man, resembling the 

 Gorilla's ; it is twice as long as the corresponding fissure in the 

 Chimpanzee, extending from the transverse occipital fissure, as is 

 sometimes the case in man, almost into the fissure of Rolando. It 

 is unbridged and without a break, and divides the parietal lobe 

 completely into upper and lower parietal lobules. The upper 

 parietal lobule is bounded externally by the parietal fissure ; 

 posteriorly it is separated from the occipital lobe, internally by 

 the parieto-occipital fissure ; externall}' it is continuous with the 

 occipital lobe, as the first occipital gyrus, anteriorlj' it is sepa- 



12 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1S80. 



rated from the posterior central convolution more completely 

 than in man, by a fissure which runs parallel with the central 

 fissure. There is in the Orang, also, a fissure running parallel 

 with the parietal, which subdivides the u^pper parietal lobule into 

 inner and outer portions. The precuneus, or the space on the 

 mesial side of the parietal lobe between the parieto-occipital 

 fissures and the ascending branches of the calloso-marginal, is 

 well defined. The lower parietal lobule in the Orang divides 

 naturally into the supra-marginal and angular gyri. The supra- 

 marginal fold curves around the upper end of the posterior 

 branch of the fissure of Sylvius and runs into the superior tem- 

 l^oral g3'rus. The angular gyrus, which is very evident, arches 

 around the first temporal fissure, and becoming continuous with 

 the second occipital fold, passes then into the upper temporal 

 gyrus. The occipital lobe, separated from the parietal, internally, 

 by the parieto-occipital fissure, is continuous with upper parietal 

 lobule through the first occipital gyrus, and by the second 

 occipital gyrus with the angular. There are no sharp lines of 

 demarkation between the occipital and temporal lobes. In the 

 occipital lobe of my Orang the transverse occipital fissure was 

 present, and received the parietal fissure. The calcarine fissure 

 was well marked, but was separated in the Orang from the pai'ieto- 

 occipital fissure by the " deuxieme plis de passage interne " of 

 Gratiolet, the " untere innere Scheitelbogen-Windung " of Bischofl", 

 The cuneus of the Orang is therefore somewhat diff"erent from that 

 of man. In man I have seen these two fissures separated as an 

 anomal}-. The calcarine passed into the hippocampal fissure, so 

 tliat in the Orang, as in monkeys generally, the gyrus fornicatus 

 was separated from the hippocampal gyrus , whereas in man these 

 convolutions are continuous. This disposition has been noticed 

 in the Hylobates, in Ateles, and in one Chimpanzee, where 

 the calcarine did not reach the hippocampal. The first occi- 

 pital gyrus is very well developed, and, as the late Professor 

 Gratiolet observed, is one of the most strildng convolutions in 

 tlie brain of the Orang. It rises so to the surface that the 

 internal perpendicular fissure or external part of the parieto- 

 occipital fissure is almost entirely bridged over, the operculum so 

 characteristic of the monkey almost disappearing. It is con- 

 tinuous with the upper parietal lobule arching around the parieto- 

 occipital fissure. This convolution comes to the surface in the 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



H3'lol)ates and Ateles almost to the same extent as in the Orang, 

 but it is more developed in the latter than in the Chimpanzee. It 

 is called also the "premier plis de passage externe," by Gratiolet, 

 the " obere innere Scheitelbogen-Windung,'' by Bischott", the •' lirst 

 annectant gyrus,"' X)y Huxley, and " first bridging convolution," 

 by Turner. The second occipital convolution connects the occipital 

 lobe with the angular gyrus. In my Orang it was partl}^ concealed 

 bj- the first occipital. It was not as superficial as in man. The 

 third occipital gj'rus is continuous with that part of tlie temporal 

 lobe below the first temporal fissure. I noticed, also, in my 

 Orang the " quatrieme plis de passage "" of Gratiolet. On the 

 mesial side of the occipital lobe in n\y Orang, was well seen the 

 " deuxieme 'plis de passage interne" of Gratiolet, the " untere 

 innere Scheitelbogen-Windung " of BischofF, which separates the 

 ealcarine from the parieto-occipital fissure ; and in both the 

 Orang and Chimpanzee, more especially on the left side, I had no 

 difficult}' in recognizing the " premier plis de passage interne '' of 

 Gratiolet, its convexity turning inwards, while that of the first 

 occipital gyrus, or the " premier plis de passage externe," turns 

 outward. These two convolutions, the first occipital gyrus and 

 the " premier plis de passage interne," in my Orang were con- 

 tinuous. They are regarded as one by Bischott', forming his 

 " obere innere Scheitelbogen-Windung," but as two b}^ Gratiolet, 

 constituting his " premier plis de passage externe et interne." 



The temporal lobe in the Orang is much less convoluted than in 

 man, or even in the Chimpanzee. Tlie first temporal fissure and 

 first temporal convolution are well marked, but the second and 

 third are badly defined. The fusiform and lingual lobes are sep- 

 arated b}" the inferior occipito-temporal fissures, the collateral 

 fissures of Huxley. The island of Reil was perfectly covered in 

 both the Chimpanzee and the Orang by the operculum, but was 

 not convoluted in my Orang. The surface in places was slightl}- 

 roughened. I noticed, however, three or four convolutions in 

 the Chimpanzee. On making a section of the left hemisphere of 

 the Orang I noticed that the corpus callosum was relativeh^ 

 smaller than in man, but that the ventricle exhibited an anterior, 

 middle and posterior cornu, the corpus striatum, trenia semi- 

 circularis, thalamus opticus and fornix were well developed, the 

 hippocampus major with corpus fimbriatum were perfectly evident, 

 and the hippocampus minor larger relatively than in man. I did 




1'72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



not see a trace of the emmenentia collateralis ; this is often, 

 however, absent in man. 



The cerebellum in my Orang was relatively larger than that of 

 man, but smaller than that of either the Chimpanzees I have dis- 

 sected, and was just covered and no more by the posterior lobes 

 of the cerebrum. This relation is still retained in my Orang, 

 though the brain has been lying in alcohol for three months since 

 it was taken out of the chloride of zinc in which it was placed 

 until the pia mater could be removed. During this period it has 

 been subject to the conditions, such as the want of the support of 

 the membranes, the eftect of pressure, etc., urged by Gratiolet, 

 Huxley, Rolleston, Marshall, etc., as sufficient to explain why 

 after death the cerebellum was uncovered by the cerebrum in the 

 Orang and Chim[)anzee, as held by Owen, Schroeder van der 

 Kolk and Vrolik, and BischotT. Every anatomist knows that 

 the brain after removal from the skull, especiall}' without the 

 membrane, if left to itself, very soon loses its shape. It is abso- 

 lutely necessary therefore to examine the brain in situ, and after 

 removal from skull to place it in some hardening fluid in which it 

 will float. Even with these precautions, through the change of 

 the surroundings, shrinkage, etc., the brain is alwa3's somewhat 

 altered. It happens, however, that I have had lying in alcohol 

 for some 3'ears a number of human and monkey brains. Among 

 the latter, examples of the genera Gebus^ Ateles^ Mavacus, Cyno- 

 cephalus, Cercopithecus, etc., taken out of the skull suflBciently 

 carefully, but preserved in the rudest manner Avithout any 

 regard to the above precautions. Now, while all of these brains 

 have somewhat lost their natural contour, the^' are not so changed 

 that in a single one, human or monkey, do I find the cerebellum 

 uncovered by the cerebrum, and in every instance the posterior 

 lobes overlap the cerebellum to a greater extent than I find is the 

 ease in my Orang. If the cerebrum and cerebellum in the Orang 

 and Chimpanzee invariably bear the same proportion to each 

 other as they do in man and the monkeys, why should not the 

 brain of an Orang or Chimpanzee, after lying in alcohol for some 

 years, exhibit the cerebellum covered l)y the cerebrum as in them? 

 Why sliould it be necessary to replace the brain of the Chimpan- 

 zee or the Orang in the skull, to make plaster casts, etc., if there 

 is no difference between their brains and those of man and the 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



monkeys, for there is no necessit}' of having recourse to such 

 measures to prove that the cerebellum is covered in the latter? 



In the account I gave of the female Chimpanzee,' I stated that 

 I found the cerebellum uncovered. I had the opportunit}^ a short 

 time since, of verifjnng that statement in the male, noticing in 

 '^itu that the cerebellum was uncovered b}^ the posterior lobes. 

 This was found to be the case b^^ Mr. Arthur Browne, the Super- 

 intendent of the Phila. Zool. Garden, in a third Chimpanzee 

 which died there. With all deference to Prof Marshall's ^ photo- 

 graph of a plaster cast of the brain of a Chimpanzee, and how- 

 ever it may truthfully represent the relations of the cerebellum in 

 his specimen, I must say that it would be simply monstrous if 

 accepted as an illustration of either of mine, and with profound 

 respect for Prof. Huxley's^ opinion regarding the interior of the 

 skull being a guide for the determination of the proportion between 

 posterior lobe and cerebellum, I find it an3'thing but a safe one as 

 regards the anthropoid apes. For the space between posterior lobes 

 of brain and dura mater and bone, both posteriorly and laterally, I 

 find very variable in situ, due to the state of the blood vessels and 

 amount of fluid in arachnoid and subarachnoid cnvities. In speak- 

 ing of the Gorilla, Prof. Bischotf ^ observes, p. 100, " Das es bei 

 ersterem am wenigsten von oben Hinterlappen der grossen Hemi- 

 sphiire bedecktwird und bei der Betrachtung des Schiidel gewiss von 

 oben mit seinem hinterern Rande sichtbar wird." And in reference 

 to the Chimpanzee,^ p. 95, " Die Hinterhauptslappen des grossen 

 Gehirns bei diesem Affen wie bei dem Menschen das kleine Gehirn 

 iiberzogen und von oben fast ganz bedecken."' And Vrolik" states, 

 p. Y, of the Orang : " Ce lobe posterieur ne se prolonge pas autant 

 que chez I'homme ; il ne recourve pas si bien le cervelet du moins il 

 ne cache pas completement surtout vers les cotes." The fact of the 

 cerebellum being covered by the posterior lobes in my Orang and 

 that figured b}- Gratiolet, and but slightly uncovered in that of 

 Vrolik's, is no more strange than that Bischoff"^ should find it 

 covered in one Hylobates, and Prof. Huxle}' ** having stated it to 

 be uncovered in another. 



I did not observe anything particularly noticeable about the 



1 Proceed, of Acad., 1879. ^ Natural History Review, 1861. 



^ Man's place in Nature, p. 97. * Das Gehirn des Gorillas, 1877. 



^ Gehirn des Chimpanzee, 1871. " Amsterdam Verslagen, Deel 13, 1862. 



' Beitrage zur Hylobates, 1870. ^ Vertebrate Anatomy, p. 411. 




174: PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



pons or medulla, except that in the latter the olivary bodies are 

 not as distinct as in man. As regards the peripheral nervous 

 system it was essentially the same as the human. As the brain of the 

 Orang which I have just endeavored to describe is the property 

 of the Academy, the animal having been bought and presented by 

 Mr. Wm. S. Yaux, and as it was desirable to preserve it in its 

 present condition, I could not make use of it to examine the 

 structure minutely. I would refer those interested in the his- 

 tology of the anthropoid brain, to Dr. Spitzka's paper.^ 



What can be inferred from the general oi-ganization of the 

 Orang as to its relation to the other primates ? The Orang like 

 man has twelve ribs, whereas the Gorilla and Chimpanzee have 

 thirteen ; on the other hand the carpal and tarsal bones are nine 

 in number in the Orang, while the Chimpanzee and Gorilla agree 

 with man in having eight. The upper extremity of the Orang 

 resembles that of the Gorilla in the absence of the flexor longus 

 pollicis. The Chimpanzee and man are alike in this respect, at 

 least the slip from the flexor longus digitorum in the former is 

 functionally a flexor longus. In the absence of a flexor longus 

 hallucis, and in the presence of an opponens hallucis, the Orang 

 difl'ers from man, the anthropoids and all the monkeys. The great 

 blood-vessels arise from the arch of aorta in the Gorilla and 

 man in the same way ; the same disposition is usually seen in the 

 Chimpanzee, rarely in the Orang. The lungs in the Orang are 

 not divided into lobes as in the Gorilla, Chimpanzee and man. 

 The stomach in the Gorilla and Chimpanzee is human in its 

 form ; in the Orang, however, it is quite different. The peri- 

 toneum in the Gorilla, Chimpanzee and Orang is like that of man ; 

 in the lower monkevs it is diff"erent. The brain of the Orang- in 

 its globular form, in the cerebellum being usually covered by the 

 cerebrum, and in the development of the first occipital gyrus, 

 resembles man more than that of the Gorilla and Chimpanzee. 

 On the other hand, the frontal and temporal lobes in the Orang 

 are not as much convoluted as in the Chimpanzee, and still less 

 than in man, and the island of Reil is not convoluted at all, at 

 least in my Orang. 



It will be seen from the above illustrations, of which many 

 others might be given, that the Gorilla and man, in some respects, 

 agree with and differ from the Chimpanzee and Orang ; while 



1 Op. cit. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



from other points of view the Orang approaches man more closelj'- 

 than either the Gorilla or Chimpanzee, and that as regards certain 

 muscles, man and the lower monkeys agree in having them, while 

 they are absent in the anthropoids. From these facts we maj-- 

 reasonabl}^ infer that the ancestral form of man Avas intermediate 

 in character as compared with the living anthropoids or lower 

 monkeys, agreeing with them in some respects, and differing from 

 them in others. The Orang is closely allied to the Gribbons, the 

 Chimpanzee to the Macacques, and the gap between these and the 

 Senviopithecus is bridged over by the Mesojnthecus of Graudr^-. 

 Until,' however, the paleontologist will have procured more 

 material like that from Pikermi, and interpreted it as ably, it 

 will seem to me premature to oifer any detailed genealogical tree 

 of the Primates. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW CRUSTACEAN FROM THE UPPER SILURIAN OF 

 GEORGIA, WITH REMARKS UPON CALYMENE CLINTONI. 



BY ANTHONY W. VOGDES, U. S. A. 



Calymene rostrata Vogdes. 



This species differs in one aspect from the usual forms classed 

 under the genus Calymene^ in having a projecting process arising 

 directly from the cephalic shield in front of the glabella, and in 

 this respect resembles Homalonotus rhinotrojns of Angelin, a 

 species which has been referred by Salter, in his monograph of 

 British Trilobites, to H. Knightii. Salter says "the front margin 

 ^'a- 1- is of most singular structure and may be 



described as tricuspid. The narrow edge 

 is so deeply indented, and at the same time 

 folded, that the front portion overhangs 

 the rostral shield, forms one projecting 

 angle flanked by two smaller projections 



Calymene rostrata Vogdes. 



The glabella and fixed cheeks Opposite the axial furrows, exactly like the 



showing the projecting pro- ,. , , , . , « r. ^. 



cess. salient and re-entering angles of a forti- 



fication." Our species has only the central triangular projection, 

 the margins of which are deflected, and the marginal border unites 

 and forms a triangular projection, directly in front and on the 

 median line. 



The following characteristics are drawn from three specimens, 

 consisting of the glabella and fixed cheeks, and many p^-gidia 

 found associated with them at the same locality. 



The glabella is convex and widens out posteriorly, being- 

 contracted in front ; the sides are marked with three lobes, 

 the basal one large, the middle lobe nearly spherical, the third 

 is somewhat obscurely defined. The fixed cheeks are separated 

 from the glabella by deep dorsal furrows, but opposite the eyes 

 the furrows are restricted hy a buttress thrown across it, nearly 

 touching the middle side lobes ; the cheeks are gibbous but 

 not elevated above the glabella, they are narrow along the 

 sides of the glabella and widen out laterally from the eyes. 

 The facial sutures cut the posterior angles of the head, but 

 anteriorl}^ from the eyes these lines run almost straight with 

 a slight tendenc}- outward, and pass over the margin. The 

 neck furrow is continued nearly to the posterior angles of the 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17t 



head. The frontal limb is triangnlar in outline, and prolonged 

 into a prominent projection, the bourrelet of the limb is defined 

 by a triangular ridge which forms the base of the projection. 

 The projection is formed by the thickening of the crust and by 

 the union of the outer marginal borders along the median line, it 

 is pointed and has its sides deflected. The space between the front 

 of the glabella and the base of the projection is somewhat de- 

 pressed. 



The p3'gidium is obtusel}" triangular, with the front greatly 

 arched in uncrushed specimens, but this character seems to be 

 confined to the medium-sized specimens ; the larger forms are not 

 so much arched, and correspond in this respect to typical pygidia 

 of G. hlumenbachii. The axis occupies along the anterior border 

 about one-third of the width of the tail, and gradually tapers 

 posteriorly into an obtuse point ; it is marked with about eight or 

 nine articulations, the anterior one being slightly arched forwards, 

 but the others are extended almost straight rig. 2. 



across it. The dorsal furrows are well defined. 

 The lateral lobes are marked with five pairs of 

 ribs, four of which are grooved and double half- 

 way up ; they are contracted along the dorsal 

 furrows, but widen out laterally. The ribs curve caiymene rostrata 



" Vogdes. The pygi- 



downwards and backwards, and are separated dium usually found 



associated with the 



from each other by well-defined grooves, the head. 



last pair unite and form a ridge extending around the posterior 



termination of the axis. 



Geological Position. — Clinton Group, Taylor's Ridge, near 

 Catoosa Station ; and also at Dug Gap, Georgia. 



Among the trilobite specimens wbicli I have collected in 

 Georgia, there are three movable cheeks and one pygidium 

 showing a strong resemblance to the same parts of Galymene 

 Glintoni as figured by Prof. Hall in Pal. N. Y., vol. ii, pi. 6(1 a, 

 fig. 5. These fragments were found associated with two glabella, 

 having characteristics not shown by the illustrations of the species 

 just referred to; therefore, for the purpose of comparison, I 

 carried the specimens to the American Museum, and through the 

 courtesy of Prof. Whitfield was enabled to study the trilobites 

 found in the Clinton Group of New York. The Georgia forms 

 are almost identical with those of New York, but show some 




lYS 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



Fis. 3. 



variations from the typical C. Clint oni ; I shall, therefore, 

 describe these fragments. 



Calymene Clintoni Vanuxem. 



Glabella slightly convex, the base broad, so as to form a nearly 

 equilateral triangle. The sides are marked with three lobes, the 

 posterior one being twice as large as the middle lobe, but the 

 anterior one is ill-defined. The dorsal furrows are deep. The 

 occipital ring triangular in front, and narrowing out laterall}'. 

 The frontal limb is broad, and equal to half the length of the 

 glabella, and arched in front. It is worthy of remark that this, 

 character is not common to the minute glabella found in the same 

 beds. The fixed cheeks have a buttress thrown across them 

 extending along the sides of the glabella, but this 

 does not elevate them above it. The movable 

 cheeks are triangular in outline, and posteriorly 

 extended into spines, and correspond to tliose 

 figured by Prof. Hall, Pal. N. Y., vol. ii, pi. 66 a, 

 fig. 5, c. The}^ are convex laterally along their 

 inner half, and grooved near the outer margin, which 

 is defined by a raised border. The pj'gidium is 

 Vanuxem. The triangular in outline, and resembles the figure of 



glabella and fixed , '^ ' =" . 



cheeks showingthe this part given by Prof. Hall, Pal. N. Y., vol. ii, 

 pi. 66 a, fig. 5 a, d, except in size. The axis is 

 marked with about eight articulations. The lateral 

 lobes are not marked with ribs, as usual in Caly- 

 mene^ and in this respect the pygidium bears some 

 resemblance to that of C. arago and C. salteri^ two 

 European forms found in the Lower Silurian, and 

 described b^- Rousault in 1849. 



Geological Position. — Clinton Group, Catoosa 

 Calymene Clintoni Station; also in the Hematitic bed at Dug Gap, 



Vanuxem. The 

 movable cheek. 



Calymene Clintoni 



wide Irontal limb. 



Fig. 4. 



Geox'gia. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1T9 



CAECINOLOGICAL NOTES, No. 3.— REVISION OF THE GENUS OCYPODA. 



BY J. S. KINGSLEY. 



The following paper is based on the Collections of the Academy. 

 I have observed the rule adopted in previous papers of following 

 the locality from which I have seen specimens, hy an exclamation 

 point. In all other cases the name of the person who has reported 

 a species from any place follows that of the locality. The same 

 conservative spirit which pervades m^^ paper on the " Fiddler 

 Crabs " (Gelasimi) will be found in this. Many of the characters 

 given by authors prove to be of no specific value, but I liave not 

 ventured to unite forms unless I had specimens which corre- 

 sponded to each nominal species. 



OCYPODA Fabiicius. 



Cancer I. c, Fabr. Ocypoda Fabr., Suppl. Eut. Syst.. 347 (1798) ; 

 Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., 11, p. 41 (1837j ; Dana, U. S. Ex. Ex. 

 Crust., p. 324 (1853). 



Carapax transverse, rhomboidal or nearly square. Eyes stout, 

 the cornea occupjing the larger portion. Meros of external 

 maxillipeds shorter than ischium. Chelipeds unequal. 



In many species there is a stridulating organ composed of a 

 row of tubercles on the inner surface of the palm, which, by being 

 drawn across a ridge on the ischium of the cheliped, produces a 

 noise. 



§ 1. Ocular pedicels prolonged beyond the cornea as a spine 

 or style. 



1. 0. ceratophthalma Fabr. 



Cancer ceratoplithalmus Pallas, Splcelegia, p. 83, PI. V, f. 17(1772). 

 Ocypoda ceratophthalma Fabr., 1. c, 347 (1788) ; Latreille, Hist. 

 Crust, et Ins., vi, 47 (1803-4) ; Encyc. Meth., x, Pi. 274, f. 1 ; La- 

 marck, Hist. Aulmaux sans Vert., v, 252 (1818) ; Desmarest, Consid. 

 sur le Crustaces, 121, PI. XII, f. 1 (1825) ; Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., 

 11, p. 48 (1837); III. Edit. Regne Animal, PI. XVII, f. 1 ; Ann. Scl. 

 Nat., in, xvlii, p. 141 (1852j ; Krauss, S. African Crust., p. 41 

 (1843) ; Btimpsou, Proc. Phlla. Acad., 1858, p. 100 ; Hess, Archlv. 

 fiir Naturgeschicbte, XXXI, 143 (1865); Martens, Verhandl. Zool, 

 Bot. Gesellsch. Wlen, 1806, p. 381 ; Heller, Relse Novara, Crust., p. 

 42 (1867) ; Hllgendorf In v. Decken's Relse, Crust., p. 82, 1867 ; 

 A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., Ix, p. 270 (1873). Cancer 

 cursor Herbst., PI. I, f. 8-9 (1790). Ocypoda brevicornis Edw., 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Hist. Crust., ii, 48 (1837) ; Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, 142 (1852) ; 

 Dana, U. S. Ex. Ex. Crust., p. 326, PI. XX, f. 3 (1853). 

 Ocypoda brevicornis var longicornuta Dana, 1. c, 337, PI. XX, 

 f. 4 (1853). Ocypoda agyptica Gerstaecker, Archiv. fur Natur- 

 gescliichte, xxii, 134 (1856) ; Heller, Sitzungsbericbte Wien Akad., 

 xliii, p. 361 (1861) ; Hoffmann, Recli. Fauna Madagascar Crust., p. 

 14 (1874 teste Zool. Record) ; Miers, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., V, 

 ii, 409 (1878). 



Carapax nearly square, granulate, front strongly deflexed, orbits 

 sinuate, oblique, the lateral angles being far behind the front. 

 These angles are nearly right angles. Orbits with an indistinct 

 fissure below. Eyes terminated with a st3de which in most cases is 

 long and cylindrical, extending far beyond the orbits. In the 

 young, however, it is small and in some cases even wanting ; that 

 form, when small and conical, characterizes the nominal species 

 brevico7mis ; maxillipeds granulate. Meros of larger cheliped, 

 with the margins armed with spiniform tubercles, more prominent 

 on the anterior margins. Carpus granulate, with internally one 

 or two teeth. Hand externally acute, tuberculate, serrate below, 

 the inner surface with scattered tubercles. Stridulating ridge at 

 some distance from the base of the fingers, straight and composed 

 of rounded tubercles. Ambulatory feet with acute granules, 

 which exhibit a tendency to arrange themseh'es in rugfe. 



]!fatal ! (E. Wilson) ; Mauritius ! (Guerin's Collection) ; Anjir, 

 Ternate, Amhoina, Adenare, Zanzibar, Benkula (Hilgendorf) ; 

 Sandwich, Is., Tahiti, Bonin, Loo Choo, Hong Kong Ouisma (Stm.); 

 Egypt, Mauritius, Bombay, Australia ( Edw. ) ; Ceylon and Nicobars 

 (Heller) ; Madagascar (Hoffmann) ; Tongatabu (Dana). 



A specimen collected by the Wilkes Expedition ('' East Indies ") 

 has the carapax intermediate between this species and cursor. 

 The ocular st^yles are wanting. Milne-Edwards' figure in the 

 Regne Animal is diff'erent from any specimens that I have seen. 

 I agree with Kossmann in considering segyptica as but a variety 

 of ceratophthalma. 



2. 0. platytarsis Edw. 



Ocypoda platytarsis Edw., Ann. Sci, Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 141 (1853) ; 

 Heller, Reise Novara Crust., p. 43 (1867;. 



Carapax wider than is usual in this genus and covered with 

 large granules. Superior margin of orbit sinuate, the external 

 angles rounded ; sides parallel about one-fourth of their length. 

 Orbits with an indistinct fissure below. Eyes spined as in ceratoph- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



thalma (teste Edw., the single specimen I have seen has the ej-es 

 broken). External maxillipeds granulate ; meros of larger cheli- 

 ped with the upper margin produced and dentate, the lower 

 spined, the posterior with transverse granular rugae, carpus 

 granulate ; hand with large granules, serrate below, stridulating 

 ridges carved and composed of crowded granules. Ambulators- 

 feet with rugre and subspiniform tubercles, dactyli broad. 



Pondiclierry \ Guerin's Collection (labelled by Guerin "Ocypoda 

 platytarsis, Edw., Cat. Mus., Paris") and probably one of the 

 original specimens). Tahiti and Nicobars (Heller). 



3. 0. urvillei Guerin. 



Ocypoda urvillei Guerin, Voyage Cofiuille, Crust, p. 9, PI. I, f. 

 1 (1836), Edw. Hist. Crust., H, p. 49 (1837), Ann. Sci. Nat. HI, 

 xviii, p. 141 (1852), Owen in Beechey's Voyage Crust., p. 80 (1839;, 

 Dana, U. S. Ex. Exp. Crust., 328, PI. XX, f. 5 (1852). 



Carapax wider than long, superior margin of orbit sinuate, 

 angles acute. Ej-es moderate, ocular spines short, extending only 

 to angles of orbit. Meros of larger cheliped rounded above, its 

 two other margins denticulate. Carpus with a strong internal 

 spine. Hand externally granulate, serrate above and below ; the 

 stridulating ridge nearly straight, a little remote from the fingers 

 and extending from the lower margin of the hand two-thirds of 

 the wa}' to the upper. (Guerin.) 



Ta/u'^i (Guerin) ; Me Bouron (Edw.) ; Sanduoich Is. (Dana). 



4. 0. macrocera Edw. 



Ocypoda macrocera Edw. Hist. Nat. Crust., II, 49 (1837), Ann. Sci. Nat. 

 IV, xviii, p. 142 (1852), Heller, Novara Crust., p. 142 tl8G7). 



Orbits wide, oblique, angle obtuse, ej^es with a spine as in 0. 

 ceratophthahna. Larger hand very short, broad and a little 

 spinose above ; its palmar portion broader than long. The fingers 

 of the smaller hand lamellate and very broad at their extremities. 

 Ambulatory feet roughened above. (Edw.) 



E. Indies, Pondiclierry, {?] Brazil (Edw.) ; Tahiti, Nicobars (Heller). 



5. 0. gaudichaudi Edwards et Lucas. 



Ocypoda gaudichaudi Edw. et Lucas in D'Orbigny's Voyage, Crust., 

 p. 26, PI. XI, f. 4 (1843', Edw. Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xviii, 142 (1832), 

 Nicollet in Gay's Chili, Zool. Ill, p. 163 (1849), Stimpson, Ann. N.Y. 

 Lye. Nat. Hist., VII, p. 61 (1859) ; Smith, Rep. Peab. Acad. Sci., 

 Ill, p. 91 (1871) ; Streets, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1872, p. 240, 



Carapax longitudinall}- strongly arcuate, distal portion of front 

 nearl}^ vertical. Superior border of orbit sinuate internally, its 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



external three-fourths nearly straight and directed slightl}^ back- 

 wards. Lateral angles nearly right angles, the sides behind them 

 being concave for about a fifth of the length of the carapax ; 

 oi'bits with a deep median fissure below. Eyes with a short conical 

 stjde reaching to, or slightl}^ beyond, the angle of the orbit. 

 External maxillipeds nearly smooth, or with a few inconspicuous 

 granules. Meros of larger cheliped with the upper and lower 

 margins spino-tuberculate, the posterior with transverse rugaj. 

 Carpus granulate ; hand subspinose above, finely serrate below, 

 internally granulate and with a well-marked transverse stridulat- 

 ing ridge, fingers lamellate, the extremities truncate. 



Chili \ Guerin ; Panama ! Capt. Field and McNiel (Pliila. Acad.) ; 

 Gulf of Fonseca ! McNiel (Peab. Acad.) ; Callao(E6.vf. et Lucas) ; 

 Valparaiso (Dana). 



6. 0. fabricii E Iw. 



Oei/podafabricii 'Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., 11, p. 47 (1837), Ann. Sci. 

 Nat. XVIII, p. 143 (1853), Hilgendorf in Decken's Reise Crust., 83, 

 PI. Ill, f. 1 (1867). 



Carapax convex, finely granulate, front strongly deflexed, 

 orbits strongl}' sinuate ; lateral angles acute and some distance 

 posterior to the base of the rostrum ; sides parallel for about a 

 third of the lengtli of the carapax. Orbits witliout emargination 

 below ; e3'es with a short conical style, not reaching beyond the 

 orbital angle. Anterior margin of mei*os of larger cheliped cren- 

 ulate, distally spinose, posterior margin rounded, rugose. Carpus 

 granulate, as is the outside of the hand ; inner surface of the 

 hand polished, with minute scattered granules ; stridulating ridge 

 straight, composed of small, closelj'' set granules ; lower margin 

 of hand finely serrate ; fingers of moderate length. Joints of 

 ambulatory feet with transverse rugoe. 



Australia ! E. Wilson; Natal ! E. Wilson ; Oceanica (Edw.) ; Zan- 

 zibar (Hilgendorf), 



7. 0. cursor. 



Cancer cursor Linn., Syst. Nat. Edit., xii, p. 1039 (1766). Ocypoda 

 ippeus Olivier, Voyage, p. 334, PI. XXX, f. 1 (1807); Savigny, Egypt, 

 PI. I, f. 1; Lamarck, An. sans Vert., v, p. 353 (1817); Desm., Con- 

 sid. Crust., p. 131 (1835); Edw., Hist. Crust., ii, p. 47 (1837); Mose- 

 ley, Notes by a Naturalist on the Challenger, pp. 48-49, woodcut, 

 1879. Ocypoda cursor DeHaan, Fauna Japonica, Crust., p. 89; Edw., 

 Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 143 (1853); Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 

 1858, p. 100; Heller, Crust. S. Europa, p. 99 (1863). 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



Carapax arcuate, front strong!}' depressed. Upper margin of 

 orbits but slightly sinuate and nearly transverse. Lateral angles 

 acute, the sides converging posteriorly, making the carapax widest 

 at the angles. Orbits below with a slight median fissure. Ej-es 

 terminated bj' a short conical style armed with pencil of hairs. 

 Meral joint of cheliped with the spines and rugse much less 

 prominent than in 0. ceratophthalma. Carpus internally' with a 

 denticulated tooth. Hands small, externally with depressed 

 granules, the lower margin finely serrate, the upper rounded and 

 without spiniform tubercles. Internally the hand is nearly smooth 

 except below where there are granules similar to those of the 

 outside. The stridulating ridge is ver}' near the fingers and is 

 crossed by numerous fine striae. The propodal joints of the 

 ambulator}' feet spined below, the dactyli of the second pair hair3\ 



Senegal! (Guerin"! ; Syria, Egypt (Edw.) ; Cape Verdes (Auct.); 

 Greece (Guerin). 



This is probabl}' the species described by Hasselquist (Iter 

 Palestinum, p. 433, 1T57) under the name Cancer anomalus^ but 

 he gives many characters which will appl}' to no known decapod 

 and so to avoid confusion I refrain from applying his name to 

 this species. McLeay, in Smith's Zoology of South Africa, men- 

 tions '■^Ceratophthalma cursor DeHaan," an expression not to be 

 found in the pages of that Dutch Carcinologist. 



8. 0. ryderi Nov. 



Carapax coarsel}^ granulate, the upper margins of the orbits 

 sinuate, transverse, lateral angles acute, sides arcuate, the carapax 

 being widest at the anterior third, as in 0. arenaria, the lateral 

 margins anteriorly finely serrate. 



Eyes not reaching the extremities of the orbits, terminated by 

 a minute spine. Chelipeds like those of 0. arenaria ; ambulatory 

 feet roughened by subspiniform granules. 



Natal! (E. Wilson). 



This species is closely allied to the Ocypoda arenaria of the 

 coasts of America, but is readily separated by the ocular spines 

 and the o-ranulations on the ambulatorv feet. It is dedicated to 

 m}^ friend, John A. Ryder, of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 PhiladeliDhia. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



§ II. Eyes without an ocular spine. 



9. 0, arenaria Sny. 



Cancer arenarius Catesby, History of the Carolinas, ii, PI. 35 (1731 

 and 1771*). Cancer quadratus Fabr., Ent. Syst., ii, p. 439 (1793). 

 Ocypoda quadraia Fab., Suppl., p. 847 (1798); Bosc. Edit., 1, "i, p. 

 194;" (teste Auct.) Edit., II, i, p. 247 (1828); Latr., Hist. Crust, et ' 

 Ins., vi, p. 49 (1803-4). Ocypoda arenaria Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., Phila., i, p. 69 (1817); Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 44, PI. 

 XIX, f. 13-14 (1837); DeKay, N. Y. Fauna, Crust., p. 13 (1841); 

 Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii, p. 180 (1851); Gerstilcker, Arch, fiir 

 Naturg., xxii, p. 36 (1856 ; Guerin in La Sagra's Hist. Cuba, Crust., 

 p. 7 (1857); Martens, Arch, fiir Naturges., xxxviii, p. 103 (1872); 

 Smith. U. S. Fish Coram. Report for 1871-72, p. 545 (1875); Kings- 

 ley, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1878, p. 322. Ocypoda albicans Latr., Encyc. 

 Meth., X, PI. 285, f. 1 (after Catesby vix 0. albicans Bosc). Ocy- 

 poda rhombea Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 46 (1837); Ann. Sci, 

 Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 143 (1852); Gibbes, 1. c, p. 180 (1851); Dana, 

 U.S. Ex. Exp.Crust.,p.322,Pl.XIX,f.8(1852);Heller,ReiseNovara, 

 Crust., p. 42 (1867); Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 135 (1870); 

 Streets, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1873, p. 240. Monolepis inermis Say, 

 1. c, p. ^57 (Megalops). 



Carapax convex, gi'anulate above, front but little deflexed ; 

 lateral angles of carapax acute, extending as far forward as the 

 middle of the front. Lateral margin crenulate, arcuate, the 

 carapax being widest at the anterior third. Orbits below with 

 spiniform tubercles and occasionally a distinct emargination. 

 Eyes with the extremities rounded and not reaching to the 

 extremity of the orbit. Chelipeds with spines and tubercles ; the 

 meros with the upper and lower margins spined, the posterior 

 rounded and crossed by tubercular rugaj. Carpus with the 

 tubercles obsolete above but pronounced near the margins, the 

 inner margin armed with one or more strong spiniform teeth. 

 Hands tuberculate, the upper margin spined, the lower serrate. 

 A tubercular stridulating ridge on the inside near the fingers. 

 Fingers strongly inflexed. Ambulatory feet compressed, hairy, 

 their sides smooth, the upper portion margined and crossed by 

 transverse rugse. 



o 



* There were at least two editions of Catesby published, bearing dates 

 respectively as above and as the second is post-Linnean, the names employed 

 by him must hold. I think that another edition exists in the librai-y of 

 the Essex Institute at Salem, Mass., the date of which is between those 

 quoted above, but I have nothing at hand by which to decide the matter. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Young specimens (less than 10 mm. broad) have the lateral 

 angle further back than in the adult, while the spines of the 

 chelipeds are wanting or but faintly indicated. 



The 0. albicans of Bosc, Lamarck and Desmarest has the 

 eyes terminated by a style, a feature I have never observed in 

 an}- specimen of 0. arenaria. The locality given is South Caro- 

 lina. The 0. rhombea of Fabricius is not this species, as his 

 expression " Carpus ut7'inque unidentatis, manibus sublaevis " will 

 not apply to this form, but agrees better with 0. forcUmana. 

 Fabricius gives no locality- for his specimens. The Brazilian 

 forms {rhombea Auct.) show no differences from northern speci- 

 mens. I haA-e seen specimens from over thirt}- localities embraced 

 in the limits of Great Egg Harbor, N. J. (Say\s types), to Rio 

 Janeiro, Brazil, and also specimens from the west coast of Mexico 

 (Dr. W. H. Jones). 



10. 0. convexus Quoy and Gaimard. 



Ocypoda convexus Quoy et Gaimard, Yoy. Uranie, Zool., iii, p. 535, PI. 

 LXX\^II, f. 2 (1828); Edw., Hist. Crust., ii, p. 49 (1837j. 



Carapax granulate, sides arcuate, front deflexed, orbits sinuate, 

 lateral angles behind the base of the rostrum, acute. Meros 

 internall}' entire, distally tuberculate ; carpus tnberculate, its 

 inner surface with a bifid tubercle. Hands cordate, externally 

 granulate, serrate above and below. 



This brief description is taken from the figure of MM. Quo}' 

 and Gaimard. I have never seen the species. It is said to have 

 come from Australia. 



11. 0. cordimana Desm. 



? Ocypoda rhombea Fabr., Suppl. Eut. Syst., p. 348 (1798). Ocypoda 

 cordimana Desm,, Consid. sur les Crustaces, p. 121 (1825); Edw., 

 Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 45 (1837); Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xviii, p. 143 

 (1852); Jacquinot et Lucas, Voy. Astrolabe et Zelee, p. 64; Heller, 

 Reise Novara Crust., p. 42 (1867); A. M. Edw., Nouv. Arch. Mus., 

 ix, p. 271 (1872). Ocypoda rhombea ? Desmarest, 1. c. p. 122; Ran- 

 dall, Jour. Phila. Acad., viii, p. 123. Ocypoda pallidula Jacquinot 

 et Lucas, 1. c, PI. VI f. 4. Ocypoda laevis Dana, U. S. Expl. Exped., 

 Crust., p. 325, PI. XX, f . 2 (1852). ? Ocypoda convexa Stm., Proc. 

 Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 100. 



Carapax arcuate, evenh' granulate. Front strongly deflexed. 

 Orbits sinuate above ; lateral angles acute, but not extending as 

 far forward as the base of the front. Sides in the adult slightly 

 13 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



arcuate, but iu the young the}* are parallel or even concave, con- 

 verging behind. Eyes, without st3-liform process, and extending 

 nearly or quite to the orbital angle. Meros of chelipeds with its an- 

 terior margin crenulate in the young, in the adult with spinifonn 

 tubercles. Carpus externally granulate. Hand short, broad, 

 cordate, granulate internally and externally, its lower margin 

 serrate, the stridulating ridge nearly obsolete. Fingers short, 

 compressed, the thumb slightly hooked at the extremity. Meral 

 joints of the ambulatory feet with transverse rugae. Carpal and 

 propodal joints similarly roughened and covered with a short 

 pubescence. 



New Zealand ! Mauritius ! (Guerin) ; Australia ! (E. "Wilson); Sand- 

 wich Is. ! (J. K. Townsend) ; Tahiti] (A. Garrett) ; Mozambique 

 and Zanzibar (Hilgendorf) ; Red Sea, Manilla, Nicobars (Heller) : 

 Hong Kong, Loo Choo (Stm. ) ; Japan (Edw.). 



The following are not true members of the genus : 



0. angulatus Latr. = Gonoplax angulatus. 



0. aurantia Bosc. ex Herbst ^ Thelphusa aurantia. 



0. carnifex Latr. ex Herbst = Cardiosoma carnifex. 



0. hcterochelos Bosc. = Gelasimus heterochelos. 



0. hispana Bosc. ex Herbst = Sesarma sp. 



0. hyJrodromus Latr. ex Herbst == Thelphusa hydrodromus. 



0. longimana Latr. = Gonoplax rhomboidalis. 



0. viaracoani Latr. == Gelasimus maracoani. 



0. macrocheles Bosc. == ? Macrophthalmus sp. 



Q. pugillalor Bosc. = Gelasimus pug illat or. 



O. quadrata Bosc. = Sesama sp. 



0. rufopunctata Latr. ex Herbst = Trapezia rufopunctata. 



0. senex Latr. ex Fabr. = Thelphusa sp. 



0. teirago7ion Bosc. ex Herbst = Gelasimus tetragonon. 

 0. tridens Latr. ex Fabr. = ? Pachygrapsus sp, 



0. vocans Latr. = Gelasimus sp. 



I have not been able to identify 



O. granulata Bosc. (Edit, ii) p. 247. 



0. viacleayana Hess, Archiv. fiir Naturgesch., XXXI, p 143, PI. VI, f. S 



(1865). Australia. 



O. unispinosa Rafinesque, Precis de decouvertes Semiologiques, p. 21, No. 



35 (1814). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 18T 



CAKCINOLOGICAL NOTES, No. IV.— SYNOPSIS OF THE GRAPSID.ffi:. 



BY J. S. KINQSLEY. 



The following paper is a continuation of my studies of the 

 Catometopa contained in the Museum of the Academj- of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. In it I have endeavored to embrace 

 every known species of the family with sufficient references to 

 their geographical distribution. To aid in the identifications of 

 species I have compiled anal3'tical tables for most of the genera, 

 but descriptions are given of onl}- those species of which I, have 

 examined specimens. I have reduced considerably the number 

 of nominal species, but believe that I am fully wan-anted in rele- 

 gating to synon3'my mau}^ so-called species founded on size, color, 

 geographical distribution, or variations of minor importance. All 

 localities from which I have examined specimens are marked with 

 an exclamation point (!). The classification employed is mainly 

 that of Dana, in the U. S. Exploring Expedition Crustacea (1852) ; 

 those of Milne-Edwards (Annales des Sciences Naturelles, III 

 Series, Zoologie, tome xx, pp. 163-200, 1853), and Kossmann 

 (Zoologische Ergebnisse, Reise in die Kiistengebiete des rothen 

 Meeres, 18YT), being comparatively'- worthless. Owing to the 

 limited amount of space at my disposal, the synonymy and bibli- 

 ography have been condensed as far as possible. 



Family GRAPSID.31 Dana. {Ora-psoidiem M. Edw.). 



Carapax subquadrate, depressed. Front generally broad. Eyes 

 short. Antennulge transversely plicate. Epistome short, some- 

 times linear. Meros of the external maxillipeds bearing the palpus 

 at the summit or at its external angle. Second joint of the abdo- 

 men of the male nearly as wide as the adjacent portion of the 

 sternum. 



The Orapsidee are all inhabitants of the temperate or tropical 

 waters, and generally \i\Q near the shores. A few, however (e.g. 

 Nautilograpsus and Varuna)^ live on the high seas. The family- 

 may conveniently be di^nded into two^ sub-families, by characters 

 derived from the antennae. In the Grapsinse the antennae are 



' The characters given by Dana for the Sesarraiuae I do not consider of 

 sufficient importance to warrant its retention as a sub family, and would 

 rather consider it as a group of the Grapsinse. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



covered by the front ; in the Plagusinse they are received into 

 notches in the front and are visible from above. 



Analytical Key to the Genera of the Grapsidse. 



Antennse covered by the front. GRAPSIN^. 



External maxillipeds without a piliferous ridge. Grapsini. 



External maxillipeds widely gaping. 

 Antennse excluded from the orbit. 

 Meros of the external maxillipeds as long as the ischium. Goniopsis. 

 Meros of the external maxillipeds shorter than the ischium. 



Metopograpsus. 

 Antennae entering the orbit. 

 Front less than half the width of the carapax. 

 No tooth behind the orbital angle. Epigrapsus. 



One tooth behind the orbital angle. 

 Fingers of cheliped excavate. Grapsus. 



Fingers acuminate. 



Sides straight. Orthograpsus. 



Sides arcuate in front. Geograpsus. 



Two teeth behind the orbital angle. Leptograpsus. 



More than two teeth behind the angle of the orbit. 



Male abdomen five-jointed, anteunulse transverse, front 

 straight. Grapsodes. 



Male abdomen seven-jointed, antennulse oblique, front exca- 

 vate . Cyrtograpsus. 

 Front more than half the width of the carapax. 



Carapax transverse. Paehy grapsus. 



Carapax longer than broad. Nautilograpsus. 



External maxillipeds without a rhomboidal gape. 

 Palpus articulating with the inner angle of the meros of the external 

 maxillipeds. 



One tooth behind the orbital angle. Br acliy grapsus. 



Several teeth behind the orbital angle. EucMrograpsus. 



Palpus articulating with middle of the anterior margin of the meros 

 of the external maxillipeds. 



Exognath of external maxillipeds very broad. PtycJiognaihus. 

 Exognath much narrower than the ischium. 

 Sides of carapax entire. Acmceopleura. 



Sides of carapax dentate. 



External distal angle of the meros of the external maxilli- 

 peds expanded. 

 Joints of ambulatory feet rounded, dactyli styliform. 



Pseudograpsus. 

 Ambulatory feet compressed, dactyli flattened, natato- 

 rial. Varuna. 

 Meros of external maxillipeds not expanded. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Meros of external maxillipeds broader than long. 



Meros as long as ischium. Glyptogra'psus. 



Meros shorter than ischium. Utica. 



Meros as long or longer than broad. 



Front nearly half as wide as carapax. Heterograpsus. 

 Front not over one-third as wide as carapax. Eriocheir. 

 Palpus articulating with the outer angle of the meros of the ex- 

 ternal maxilliped. 



One tooth behind the orbital angle. Perig7'(ipsus. 



More than one tooth behind the orbital angle. Platygrapsvs. 

 External maxillipeds with an oblique piliferous ridge. Sesarmini. 



Meros of external maxilliped elongate, its apex rounded. 

 Antennae excluded from the orbit. Metasesdrma. 



Antennae not excluded from the orbit. 

 Carapax subquadrate, sides ai'cuate. 

 Joints of ambulatoiy feet entire. Sarmatium. 



Joints of ambulatory feet dentate. Bhaconotus. 



Carapax quadrate, sides straight. Sesarma. 



Carapax elongate, narrowed behind. Aratus. 



Mei'os of external maxilliped short, its distal border truncate or even 

 excavate, and bearing the palpus. 



Antennae excluded from the orbit. Clistocoeloma. 



Antennae entering the orbit. 



Sides of carapax straight. Helice. 



Sides arcuate. 



Sides entire. Cyclograpsns. 



Sides emarginate or toothed. Chasmagnathus. 



Antennae lodged in notches in the front, and visible from above. 



PLAGUSm^. 

 Meros of external maxillipeds large, as broad as ischium. Plagi/sia. 



Meros small and much narrower than ischium. Leiolophus. 



Sub-family Grapsinse {Grapsinm et Sesarmince Dana). 

 Antennulse more or less transverse, and covered by the front. 



Tribe GRAPSINI (Sub-family Grapsinse Dana). 



§ External maxillipeds -without an oblique piliferous ridge on 

 the ischial and meral joints. 



Genus GONIOPSIS De Haan, 1835 (Goniograpsus (pars) Dana, 1851). 



Carapax flat ; front vertical, over half as wide as carapax ; 

 sides straight, one-toothed. Suborbital lobe broad, reaching the 

 front and excluding the antenna from the orbit. External max- 

 illipeds slender ; meral and ischial joints of equal length. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880, 



1. G. cruentatus De Hann ex Latreille. 



Cancer rvricola De Geer. Memoirs pour sei-vir a I'Hist. Insectes, vii, 



417, PL XXV, 1778 (non Linne). 

 Orapsxis criientattts Latreille. Histcrire Naturelle des Crust, et Ins., 



vi, p. 70 (1803-4). 

 Goniopsis cruentatus I>e Haan. Fauna .Japonica Crust., p. 33 (1835). 

 Grapsus longipes Randall. Jour. Pliila. Acad., viii, p. 125 (1839). 

 Goniopsis ruricola White. List Brit. Mus. Crust., p. 40 (1847). 

 'Grajysus pelU Herklots. Additamenta ad Faunam Carcinologicam 



AfricjB Occidentalis, 8, PI. I, f. 6-7 (1851). 

 'Goniograpsus cruentatus Dana. U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 342, 



PL XXI, f. 7 (1852). 



Front granulate, supra-frontal lobes four, margins crenulate, 

 oi'bits entire above, distally emarginate. Carapax with oblique 

 transverse ridges. Anterior margin of nieros of chelipeds ex- 

 panded, dentate, the upper and lower margins with spiniform 

 tubercles, as is also the upper margin of carpus. Hands with 

 spiniform tubercles above and below, the middle of the outer sur- 

 face smooth, the inner surface with scattered prominent granules. 

 Thumb and finger sub-excavate, the latter spinose above. Ambu- 

 latory feet compressed and armed with still' black bristles. Pos- 

 terior angle of meros of last pair rounded, in the other feet 

 dentate. 



Floridti.! (H. E. Webster, in Union College Museum) ; Bahamas! 

 Cuba! (H.F.Baker); Surmam! (Dr. Hering, Randall's type of 

 G. longipes) ; Gaboon, W. Africa (Du Chaillu) ; West Coast of 

 Nicaragtia! (J. A. McNiel, in Museum of Peabody Academy); 

 Tropical Seas of America (Auct, ), 



Genus METOPOGRAPSUS M.-Edw., 1858. 



Front more than half the width of carapax, deflexed. Sides 

 straight. Internal suborbital lobe very broad, reaching the front 

 and excluding the antenna from the orbit. Meros of external 

 maxilliped short, much broader than long. 



Key to Species. 

 Antero-lateral margin entire. 



Frontal margin sinuate. messor. 



Frontal margin straight. latifrons. 



Antero-lateral margin toothed. oceanicus. 



M. messor Edwards ex ForskaL 



Cancer messor ForskaL Descr. An. in Itin. Observ., p. 88 (1775). 

 Grapsus gaimardii Andouin, Expl. PL Savigny (teste Edw.). 

 Grctpsus messor ^Avf ■ Hist. Nat;" Crust., ii, p. 88 (1837). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 191 



Grapsus thukuJiar Owen. In Beechey's Voyage, Zoology, p. 80, Tl. 



XXIV, f. 3 (1839). 

 Graps>is paniUelus Randall. .Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila. viii, p. 



127 (1839). 

 Metopograpsus messor, timkuliar, eydouxi et intermedius Edw. Ann. 



Sci. Nat., Ill, XX, p. 165 (1853). 



Carapax slightly narrowed behind, plications and rugse more 

 or less distinct. Frontal lobes rather prominent, frontal margin 

 sinuate, smooth or crenulate at the angles. Meros of chelipeds 

 with the posterior surfiice rugose, the anterior margin expanded 

 and distally truncate, a few spinose teeth near the base and 

 several on the truncate margin. Carpus externall}' rugose, inter- 

 nallj' with a prominent bifid or quadrifid tubercle. Hands with 

 oblique folds above and below, and a longitudinal ridge on the 

 lower outer surface. Fingers sub-excavate. Last joint of male 

 abdomen but slightly narrower than penult joint. 



Sandwich Is. ! (Nuttall, Pease, Jones, Wilkes' Expedition); Tahiti! 

 (A.J. Garrett); Avstralia / (E. Wilson); Mauritius/ (Guerin); 

 Aden; ! Natal! (Dr. T. B. AVilson) ; Indian and Pacific Oceans 



(Auct.) 



M. latifrons Edwards ex White. 



Oi'apsus latifrons White, in Jukes' Voyage of the Fly, ii, p. 337, PI. II, 



f. 2 (1847j. 

 Metopograpsus latifrens et maculatus'Eidw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, pp. 



166 and 165, PI. VII, f. 1 (1853). 

 Metopograpsus pictus A, M.-Edw., Ann. Soc. Ent. France, vii, p. 283 



(1867) ; Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 289, PI. XIII, f. 2 (1873). 



Carapax narrowed behind, plications indistinct ; frontal lobes 

 granulate on the edge. Front broad, nearly straight, mai'gin 

 denticulate. Chelipeds similar to those of M. messor. Base of 

 last joint of male abdomen much narrower than the extremity of 

 penult joint. 



Batavia, ! (Dr. "Wilson); Singapore (White); Java (Edw); New Cale- 

 donia (A. M.-Edw.). 



M. oceanicus Jacq. et Lucas. 



Metopograpsus (Grapsus) oceanicus Jacqiiinot et Lucas, Voyage Astro- 

 labe et Zeelee, Crust., p. 73, PI. VI, f. 9 (Text 1853, Plates 1842-53). 



Metopograpsus quadridentatus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadel- 

 phia, 1858, p. 102. 

 Pulo Han (J. et L.); near Hong Kong (Stm.) ; Nicobar Is. (Heller). 




192 ' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Geuus EPIGEAPSUS Ileller, 1S621 {Nedograpsus Heller, 1865). 



Sides arcuate, entire orbits externally open ; external maxilli- 

 peds gaping, meros shorter than the ischium, rather broad abdo- 

 men of the male five-, of the female seven-jointed. 



E. politus Helltr. 



Epigrapsus politus Heller, Verb. Z. B, Ges. Wien, 1862, p. 522. 



Nectograpsus politus Heller, Reise der Novara, Crustaceen, p. 57, PI. V, 



f. a (1805). 



Nicobars ; T«7i^<^■ (Heller). 



Genus GEAPStJS Lamarck (restrict). 



Sides arcuate, with one tooth behind the orbital angle; front 

 narrow, deflexed ; antennae entering the orbit. External maxilli- 

 peds slender, gaping ; meros oblong. Fingers of chelipeds exca- 

 vate. 



G. maculatus Edwards ex Catesby. 



Pagttrus maculatus Catesby, Nat. Hist, of the Carolinas, ii, Plate 

 XXXVI, f. 1 (1743 et 1771).^ 



^ Dr. Heller, in his preliminary account of the Crustacea collected by 

 the Novara Expedition (Verbandl. Zool. Bot. Gesellscbaft, Wien, 1862, pp. 

 519-528), characterizes several genera and species of which no mention is 

 made in the final report. These are MenmtJiius brevirostris which is prob- 

 ably Acantlionyx consobrinus A. Edw. , of the final report ; Xantho tetraodon 

 is Eudora tetraodon, Carpilodes granulatus appears to be C. tristis Dana. 

 Lupa Mrsuta was probably referred to Neptunus sanguinolentus. Thel- 

 phusa willlerstorfl appears to be /. leschenmidii, Parathelphusa dentipes to be 

 P. tridentata, Eelcecius areolatus to be H. cordiformis, Metaplax Jiirtipes is 

 apparently referred to a new genus, Orapsus depressus is probably Oeo- 

 grapsus crinipes, Orapsus dedivifrons is apparently rechristened Pachygrap- 

 sus iniermedius, Eeterograpsus barbigerus has its specific name altered 

 to barhimanus, Epigrapsus nov. gen. reappears as Nectograpsus nov. 

 gen. with no reason assigned for the change. Metasesarma granulatus is 

 redescribed as new under the name rugulosa. Plagusetes elatus is prob- 

 ably, as pointed out by Mr. Miers (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., ix, p. 147, 

 1878), Acuntliocydus gayiof the final report. Oelas^m^ls vcmegatus appears 

 to have been finally referred to G. annulipes. Palinurus paulensis was 

 afterward apparently referred to P. lalandii and Pelias notatus is refen-ed 

 to Anchistia. All this shuffling of names is made without the slightest hint 

 to aid one in correlating the two papers, and is a proceeding which cannot 

 be too strongly condemned. 



- There were at least two editions of Catesby bearing dates as above, 

 and as the second appeared thirteen years after the tenth edition of the 

 Syslema Natures oiJAmw, and five after the twelfth edition, the names em- 

 ployed by Catesby will hold. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



Cancer grapsus Liim., Syst. Nat., Edit., x, p. 630 (1758). 



Qrapsus pictus Latieille, Hist. Crust, etiiis., vi, p. 69, PI. XL VII, f. 3 



(1803-4.) 

 Goniopsis pictus De Haan, Fauna Japonica Crust., p. 33 (1835). 

 Grapsus strigosus Brulle, in Webb et Berthelot Hist Canaries, ii, PI. 



II ; Crustacea, p. 15, 1836-44 (teste'Edw.)' 

 Grapsus maculatus, webbi, ornaius et pharaonis Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. 



pp. 167-8, PI. VI, f. 1 (1853). 

 Grapsus aUifrons Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lyceum Nat. Hist., vii, p. 



230 (1860). 



Carapax depressed, transversel}^ plicate, folds anteriorly broken 

 lip into squamiform tubercles. Frontal crest four-lobed, median 

 lobes the larger, their margins subtuberculate. Frontal margins 

 crenulate, regularly arcuate. Lateral margin arcuate. Inferior 

 border of orbit with a deep fissure. Anterior border of ischium 

 and meros of cheliped spinose, the lower margin of the meros spino- 

 tuberculate, the posterior surface plicate. Carpus with distant 

 tubercles, its interior margin with a laminate spine. Hand above 

 tuberculate, externally with longitudinal ridges, below with 

 oblique folds. On the inner surface the tubercles and folds are less 

 prominent. Fingers short, tips excavate. Ambulatory feet com- 

 pressed, propodal and dactylic joint spinose. 



Florida Keys! (Webster, Ashmead) ; West Indies/ (Lawrence, 



Wood, Wilson, Goes, Lea) ; San Lorenzo I (Wilkes' Expedition) ; 



Pernambuco! (Dr. Wilson); Tahiti! (A. Garrett); W. Coast 



Mexico! (Dr. Jones); Central America I (McNiel) ; New Zealand! 



(Dr. Wilson); Mauritius! (Guerin) ; Natal! (Dr. Wilson); 



Georgia, California, Peru, St. Helena and Cape Verde Is. (Miers) ; 



Paumotu and Hawaian Is. (Dana) ; Honduras! (no collector's 



name). 



The genus Graj)sus, as well as several others, is divided into 

 sections by Milne-Edwards, characterized either by having the 

 posterior distal angle of the meros of the last pair of ambulatory 

 feet regularly rounded, or dentate ; but in specimens of G. macu- 

 latus., I have occasionally found this angle on one side entire, and 

 the other dentate. 



G. maculatus var. tenuicristatus Alartens ex Herbst. 



Cancer' tenuicristatus Herbst. Krabbeu und Krebse, PI. Ill, f. 33-34, 



1790 (teste Martens). 

 Grapsus rudis Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., il p. 87 (1837). 

 Grapsus hirtus Randall, Jour. Phila. Acad., viii, p. 124 (1839). 



^ Brulle gives not the slightest description which will distinguish his 

 specimens from either maculatus or strigosus. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Is distinguished from the typical forms of G. maculatus only 

 by the hairy carapax and nieral joints of the ambulatory limbs, 

 and the narrower carpal spine. All other characters Avhich have 

 been given prove inconstant. Dr. Martens, by an examination of 

 Herbst's type, has shown the identity of Herbst's teniiicriatafus, 

 and Edwards' rudis. 



Hfiwaian Is.! (J. K. Townseiid, Randall's type) ; OoJiu! (Dr. W. 

 H. Jones) ; Ceylon (Heller) ; Bonin (Stm.). 



G. Strigosus Latreille ex Herbst. 



Cancer strigosus Herbst, PL XLVII, f. 7 (17991. 



Orapsus strigosus Latr., Hist. Crust, et Ins., vi, p. 70 (1803-4). 



Grapsus alboUneatus Lamarck, Hist. Animaux sans Vertebres, v, p. 



249(1817). 

 Ooniopsis strigosus De Haan, Fauna Japonica Crust., p. 33 (1835). 

 Grcqysus granrtlosus, peronii et pelagicus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, 



XX. p. 169 (1853). . 



Grapsus longipes et suhquadratus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Philadelphia, 1858, pp. 102 et 103. 



Carapax but little convex, posteriori}' with oblique transverse 

 lines, anteriorly with sqnamiform tubercles. Frontal lobes mod- 

 erate, frontal margin crenulate. Orbits with a deep fissure below. 

 Epistome short. Meros spined anteriorly, its other margins 

 rounded, the posterior surface with transverse rugae- Carpus 

 granulate and bearing internally a slender spine. Hands much 

 as in G. maculatus. Posterior distal angle of meros of last pair 

 of ambulatory feet denticulate. 



Natal! Australia! (Dr. T. B. Wilson) ; Sandtdch Is.! (in Peabody 

 Acad.). Its distribution is embraced within the above limits and 

 Hong Kong (Stimpson). 



G. gracilipes Milne-Edwards. 



Grapsus gracilipes Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 168 (1853). 



China (Edwards). 



Subgenus Orthograpsus, nov. 

 Carapax transverse, broadest behind. Sides straight, with one 

 tooth behind the orbital angle. Antennas entering the orbit. 

 Fingers of chelipeds acute. 



0. hillii nov. 



Carapax depressed, plications faint. Supra-frontal lobes mod- 

 erate ; front straight, narrow, deflexed. Sides of carapax straight, 

 post-orbital tooth small. Meros of external maxilliped a little 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



longer than broad. Chelipeds much as in Metopograpsus onessor-, 

 the hand granulate above, fingers acuminate. Posterior distal 

 angle of meral joints of ambulator}^ feet rounded, entire or finely 

 serrate, there being a variation in the sides of the same specimen. 



West Indies ! (Dr. Wilson) ; Key West, Fla. ! (Dr. A. S. Packard, Jr., 

 Peab. Acad). 



0. longitarsis Kingslcy ex Dana. 



Grapsus longitavsis Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1851, p. 249. 

 U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 339, PI. XXI, f. 4 (1852). 



Pmmiotu Archipelago (Dana). 



Genus GEOGEAPSTJS Stimpson, 1868 (Biscoplax, Am. Ed., 1867). 



Carapax depressed, sides curved in front, straight behind, one 

 tooth behind the angle of the orbit. Front narrow, strongly de- 

 flexed. Internal suborbital lobe large. Antennae entering the 

 orbit. Dactyli of chelipeds acuminate. 



Synopsis of Species. 



Meros of chelipeds with a laminiform expansion of the anterior margin. 

 Front nearly straight. 



Folds of carapax transverse. Udidus. 



Folds of carapax oblique. gvayi. 



Front arcuate. crinipes, 



Meros not expanded, carapax tuberculate anteriorly. longipes. 



G. lividus Stimpson ex Milne-Edwards. 



Orapsus lividus Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 85 (1837). 

 Grapsus brevipes Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 170 (1853). 

 Geograpsus litidus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 



1858, p. 101. 

 Geograpsus occidentalis Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lye, vii, p. 230 



(1860). 



Carapax much broader than long, depressed. Plications nearly 

 transverse. Frontal lobes prominent, front deflexed, its margin 

 nearly straight. Sides of carapax slightly arcuate. Orbit with a 

 deep fissure below. Meros of chelipeds above and below with 

 transverse rugae, its anterior margin expanded, proxiraall}^ den- 

 ticulate, distall}' the teeth are larger. Carpus granulate and with 

 a short spine on the inner margin. Hand and dactylus tubercu- 

 late above, externally and below with short, oblique rugae ; fingers 

 acuminate. Distal angle of meral joints of the last pair of ambu- 

 latory feet rounded. 



Isle Bartholomeio, W. I.! (A. Goes) ; Chili! (Guerin) ; West Indies 

 (Auct.) ; Cape St. Lucas (Stm.). 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



G, criuipes Stimpson ex Dana. 



Grapsus crinipes Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci, Philadelphia, 1851, p. 



249. U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 341, PI. XXI, f. 6 (1852). 

 Geograpsus crinipes Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 



1858, p. 101. 

 Grapsus depressus Heller, Verh. Z. B. Gess. Wien, 1862, p. 521. 



Carapax depressed, the sides nearly parallel, folds of the cara- 

 pax oblique, frontal lobes but little prominent, front arcuate. 

 Ischial joint of cheliped spined in front ; meros with the anterior 

 margins expanded, finely serrate proximally, more coarsely so at 

 the apex ; carpus and hand roughened above, a few inconspicuous 

 lines on the lower outer surface of the palm. Distal angle of 

 meros of the last pair of ambulatory feet rounded. 



Sandioich Is. ! (Dr. W. H. JonesJ ; Tahiti (Heller). 



G. grayi A. Milne-Edwards ex H. Milne-Edwards. 



Grapsus grayi Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 170, 1853. 

 Geograpsus ruhidus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci, Philadelphia, 



1858, p. 103. 

 Geograpsus grayi A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 288 (1873). 



Carapax somewhat inflated, its folds oblique ; frontal lobes 

 prominent, front nearl}^ straight. Orbit with a slight fissure 

 below ; chelipeds much as in G. ciHnipes. Distal angle of meros 

 of last pair of feet rounded, entire or dentate. 



This is probabl}' the adult of the preceding species. 



Tahiti! (A. Garrett); Australia, Mauritius, Zanzibar (Hilgen- 

 dorf) ; Madagascar, India, Bonin, New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 



G. longipes Kingsley ex A. Milne-Edwards. 



Discoplax longipes A. M.-Edw., Ann. Soc. Ent. France, vii, p. 284 

 (1867). Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 294, PI. XV (1873). 



New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 



Genus LEPTOGRAPSTJS M. -Edwards (pars), 1853, Stimpson. 



Carapax with the sides arcuate, two-toothed. Front less than 

 half the width of the carapax, not deflexed. Internal sub-orbital 

 ^ lobe small, antennae entering the orbit. Meros of external max- 



illipeds as broad as long, but shorter than the ischium. 



Leptograpsus variegatus Milne Edwards ex Fabricius. 



Cancer varkgatus Fabr., Ent. Syst., ii, p. 450 (1793). 

 Grapsus marginatus Latr., Hist. Crust, et Ins., vi, p. 71 (1803-4). 

 Grapsus personatus Lamarck, Hist. An. sans Vert., v, 249 (1817). 

 Grapsus jyictus Quoy et Gaimai'd, Voyage Uranie et Physiciene, p. 

 523, PI. LXXVI, f. 2 (1824). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



Grapsvs strigillatus White, in Gray's Zoological Miscellany, p. 78 



(1843). 

 Grapsus variegatus Edwards et Lucas, in d'Orbigny's Voyage, p. 27 



(1849). 

 Grapsus planifrons Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1851, 



p. 249. U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 638, PL XXII, f. 3 (1852). 

 Leptograpsus variegatus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 171 (1853). 

 Leptogiapsus hertheloti, xerreauxi, ansoni et gai/i Edw., 1. c, p. 172 



(1853). 



Carapax nearl}' flat, transversely plicate. Protogastric region 

 concave, with squamose tubercles, protogastric lobes but little 

 prominent. Front slightl}^ depressed, its margin crenulate and 

 nearly straight. Orbits with a narrow, deep, external fissure. 

 Meros of chelipeds with the anterior border expanded, dentate ; 

 the other angles rounded, the posterior surface rugose. Carpus 

 tuberculate and with a short spine on the internal surface. Hand 

 tuberculate above, externall}'' smooth. In the 3'oung there is an 

 elevated line along the outside of the palm. Ambulatory feet 

 with stiff setae. 



Pernambuco / (Dr. Wilson); Chili/ (Wilkes' Expedition) ; Austra- 

 lia / (E. Wilson); JVeic So. Wales! (Capt. Putnam, Peabody 

 Academy) ; Isle Guam (Quoy and Gaimard) ; Canaries (Edw.); 

 Norfolk I. (Miers) ; Shanghai (Heller). 



Genus GEAPSOPES Heller, 1865. 



Carapax depressed, sides arcuate and dentate in front, behind 

 straight. Front less than half the width of the carapax, strongly 

 deflexed. Orbits externally open. Internal sub-orbital lobe 

 small, antennae entering the orbit. Meros of external maxilliped 

 longer than broad. Male abdomen five-jointed. 



G. notatus Heller. 



Grapsodes notatus Heller, Novara Crust., p. 58, PI. V, f. 2 (1865). 



Nieobars (Heller). 



Genus CYETOGRAPSUS Dana, 1851.1 



■ Carapax broader than long, front narrow, excavate, sides arcu- 

 ate, with three teeth behind the orbital angle. External maxilli- 

 peds widely gaping, without a piliferous ridge. Epistome very 



1 For some reason, Prof. Smith in his paper on Brazilian Crustacea 

 (Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences, Vol. ii, 

 pp. 1-42, 1869), and in his notes on Ocypodoidea (1. c, p. 154), refers 

 several times to this genus, and always as Cryptograpsus. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



short. AnteniiiB entering the oi'bit. Male abdomen seven- 

 jointed, the second joint verj^ short. 



* 



C. angulatas Dana. 



Cyrtograpsus angulatus Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1851, p. • 



250. U. S. Expl. Exped., p. 352, PI. 22, f. 6 (1852). 

 Cryptograpsus angulatus Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 37, 1869. 



Carapax uneven, granulate. Sides three-toothed, second tooth 

 small. Orbits with a slight fissure above. Feet all granulate. 

 Hands inflated; fingers acuminate. 



Rio Negro, Patagonia! (U. S. Expl. Exped.). 



C. cirripes Kingsley ex Smith. 



Cryptograpsus cirripes Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad, ii, p. 11, PI. I, f. 3 

 (1869). . 



Carapax depressed, areolate ; front narrow, slightly excavate. 

 Sides of carapax strongl}'^ arcuate, with four teeth behind the angle 

 of the orbit, the second and last teeth much smaller than the 

 others ; all of the borders of the carapax are crenulate. Chelipeds 

 stout, granular. Propodal joints of first, second, and fourth, and 

 dactylus and carpus of fourth pair of ambulatory feet haired. 



Bio Janeiro! (Captain Harrington, Peabody Academy of Science, 

 Salem, Mass., types). 



Genus PACHYGRAPSUS Randall (1839); Stimpson (1858). 



Carapax somewhat narrowed behind, and with transverse striae-. 

 Front more than half the width of the carapax, sides entire, or 

 with one or two teeth ; inner sub-orbital lobe small, allowing the 

 antennae to enter the orbit. External maxillipeds widelj' gaping, 

 meros as broad as long. Type, P. crassipes. 



Synopsis of Species. 

 Sides entire. 



Front straight or nearly so. 

 Numerous transverse folds on carapax ; lower margin of hand spined. 



corrugat^ls. 

 Carapax but little plicate, hands smooth below. mthiopic^is. 



Front strongly sinuate. 

 Hands smooth. minutus. 



Hands externally with longitudinal ridges. j)^'^'^'^^'^^- 



Sides with one tooth behind the orbital angle. 

 Posterior distal angle of meros of fifth pair of feet rounded. 



Front with a prominent tooth at angle. crassipes. 



Front slightly sinuate without prominent teeth. maurtis. 



Posterior distal angle of meros of fifth feet dentate. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



Fingers of cheliped smooth. transversus. 



Fingers dentate or spined above. gracilis. 



Bides two-toothed. 



Transverse lines of carapax naked. marmoratus. 



Transverse lines of earapax haired. pubeseens. 



Unknown to me. latipes. 



P. crassipes Randall. 



Paehygrapms crassipes Randall, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 

 viii,p. 127 (1839). 



Grapsus eydouxi ^dw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 170 (1853). 



Leptograpsus gonagrus Edw., L c, p. 173 (1853). 



Carapax somewhat arcuate, sides with a single tooth behind the 

 orbital angle ; frontal lobes prominent ; front deflexed, its margin 

 nearly straight, the angles with a prominent tooth. Meros of 

 Ghelipeds with the anterior margin produced, distally truncate and 

 dentate. Hands inflated, margined above and with a longitudinal 

 ridge on the lower outer surface ; fingers excavate. Distal angle 

 of meros of posterior ambulatory feet roimded ; dactyli of the 

 ambulatory feet spinulose. 



(?) Sandwich Is. ! (T. Nuttall, Randall's type); California from San 

 Francisco! to San Diego ! (Many coUectoi's) ; ? New Providence, 

 W. I. ! (H. C. Wood, Jr.); Tolcohama (Tozzetti). 



P. maarus Lucas. 



P achy grapsus maurus Lucas, Expl. Algiers, Crust., p. 20, PL II, f. 5 



1849). 

 Ooniograpsus simplex Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1851, p. 



24'J ; U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust, p. 344, PI. XXXI, f. 8 (1852). 



Pachygrapsus simplex Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, 



p. 102. 



Algiers (Lucas) ; Madeira (Dana); Bio Janeiro (Dana, Heller). 



P. transversus Gibbes. 



Pachygrapsus transversus Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Science, iii, 



p. 182 (1850). 

 Ooniograpsus innotatus Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1851, i>. 



249 ; U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 345, PI. XXI, f. 9 (1852). 

 Leptograpsus rugulosus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 172 (1853). 

 Pachygrapsus lavimanus Stimpson, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 102. 

 Metopograpsus duhiusetminiatus, Saussure, Mem. Soc. Phys, etd'Hist. 



Nat. Geneve, xiv, pp. 444-445, PI. II, f. 16, 17 (1858). 

 Grapsus declivifrons Heller, Verhandl. Z. B. Gesellschaft, Wien, 1862, 



p. 521. 

 Pachygrapsus intcrmedius Heller, Novara Crust, p. 44 (1865). 

 Pachygrapsus socius Stm., Ann. N. Y. Lye. x, p. 114 (1871). 

 Pachygrapsus advena Catta Ann. Sci. Nat. VI, iii, No. 1. p. 7, PI. I 



(1876). 




200 • PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



Carapax depressed, shining, witli transverse plicae, oblique on 

 the branchial region. Sides generally slightly arcuate, with one 

 tooth behind the orbital angle. Frontal lobes prominent, front 

 sinuate. Meros of chelipeds with transverse rugse, the inner 

 margin dentate ; carpus rugose, with an internal rounded tubercle. 

 Hand minutely granulate, a longitudinal ridge on the lower outer 

 surface, margins rounded; dactylus with the upper margin smooth. 

 Postero-distal angle of the meros of last pair of ambulatory feet 



dentate. 



Florida! {K.. S. Packard; Peab. Acad.; Brown Univ.; H. E. Web- 

 ster, Union College) ; West Indies! (S. G. Morton, H. C. Wood, 

 Jr.); Brazil! (Dr. T. B. Wilson); California! (J. L. Leconte); 

 New Zealand ! (E. Wilson); Tahiti {h.. Garrett); W. Coast Nicar- 

 agua! (J. A. McNiel, Peab. Acad.); Australia (Stm.); Mio Janeiro 

 (Heller); Madeira (Stm.). 



P. gracilis Stimpson ex Saussure. 



Metopograpsus gracilis Saussure, 1. c, p. 443, PI. II, f, 15 (1858) 

 Orapsus guadulpensis Desbonne et Schramm, Crustaces de la Guada- 



loupe, p. 48 (1867). 

 Pachygrapsus gracilis Stimpson, Ann. N. Y. Lye, x, p. 113 (1871). 

 Orapsus {Leptograpsus) rugulosus Martens, Archiv fiir Naturges- 



cliichte, xxxviii, p. 102 (1873). 



Carapax much as in P. transversus, but with no folds on the 

 cardiac region; lateral margins nearly straight, one-toothed. 

 Frontal lobes nearly obsolete ; front nearly horizontal, regularly 

 arcuate and minutely crenulate. Chelipeds and ambulatory feet 

 nearly as in P. transversus, the hand and dactylus, however, being 

 spined or toothed above. 



Florida! {A. S. Packard, Jr., Peab. Acad.); West Indies (Auct.). 



P. corrugatus Kingsley ex Martens. 



Orapsus {Leptograpsus) corrugatus Martens, 1. c, p. 107, PI. IV, f . 8 



(1872;. 



Cuia (Martens). 

 P. aetMopicus Hilgendorf. 



Orapsus {Pachygrapsus) a'thiopicus Hilgendorf, in von der Decken's 

 Reisen in Ost-Afrika, Crust., p. 88, PI. IV, f. 2 (1869). 



Ugurunga, Fast Africa (Hilgendorf). 

 P. plicatus Stimpson ex Milac-Edwards. 



Orapsus plicatus Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 89 (1837). 



Orapsus A;rff?<sw Edwards, Ann. Sci, Nat. HI, xx, p. 170 (1853). 



Pachygrapsus plicatus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 102 

 (1858). 



Pachygrapsus striatus A. M.-Edw., Journal Museum Godeflfroy, iv. p. 

 82 (1873). 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



Carapax broader than long, everywhere crossed b}' plications 

 which are bordered by short hairs ; frontal lobes prominent, front 

 sinuate. Sides of carapax entire. Meros and carpus of chelipeds 

 externally' plicate, inner margin of meros expanded, proximally 

 denticulate distall^- with spiniform teeth. Carpus Avith a promi- 

 nent internal spine. Hand and dactjdus granulate above, exter- 

 nally the hand bears several longitudinal rugie. Fingers short, 

 gaping, extremities excavate. 



Oahu! (Dr. W. H. Jones); Tafdti! (A. Garrett, Peab. Acad.); New 

 Caledonia; Samoan Is. (A. M.-Edw.j^ Natal (Krauss); Loo Choo 

 (Stimpson). 



P. marmoratus Stimpson ex Fabriciup. 



Cancer marmoratus Fabrieius, Ent. Syst., ii, p. 4.')0 (1793). 

 Grapsus varius Latreille, Hist. Crust, et Ins. vi, p. 69 (180;3-4i. 

 Grapsus marmoratus Desmorest, Considerations, p. 131 (1825). 

 Leptograp«us marmoratus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 171 (1853). 

 Pachygrapsus marmoratus Stimpson, Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 

 1858, p. 102. 



Carapax depressed, naked, transversely plicate; frontal lobes 

 prominent, front depressed, slightlv arcuate, or sometimes a 

 little sinuate. Sides with two teeth behind the angle of the 

 orbit. Meros of chelipeds expanded in front, expansion distally 

 truncate and dentate. Carpus and hand tuberculate above, the 

 former with a prominent internal tooth. Fingers slightly exca- 

 vate. Posterior distal angle of meros of last pair of feet rounded, 



entire. 



France!. (Guerin) ; Bospliorus ! (Smithsonian) ; Mediterranean ( Auct. ) ; 

 Madeira (Stm.). 



P. pubescens Heller. 



Pachygrapsus pubescens Heller, Novara Crust, p. 45, PI. IV, f. 4 (1865). 



CMU (Heller). 

 P. minutus A. M. -Edwards. 



Pachygrapsus minutus A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch du Mus., ix, p. 292, 

 PI. XIV, f. 2(1873). 



New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 

 P. simplex Kingsley ex Herklots. 



Grapsus simplex Herklots, Additamenta, etc., p. 9, PI. I, f, 8 (1851). 



Boutry, West Coast of Africa (Kevklot^). 



Genus NAUTILOGRAPSITS Edwards {Planes BelP). 



Carapax narrow, regularl}' arcuate, sides slightly convex, and 

 bearing a rudimentary tooth behind the orbital angle. Front 



' The genus Planes is a MS. one of Leach. Bowdich, in his " Excursion 

 to Madeira and Porto Santo," p. 15, f. 2 (1825), figui-es and mentions a spe- 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



more than half the width of the carapax. External maxillipeds 

 broad, meros broader than long. Posterior feet compressed. 



N. minutus Edwards ex Linne. 



Cancer minutus Linne Syst. Nat. Edit, xii, p. 1048 (1766). 



Grapsus minutus Latreille, Hist. Crust, et Ins., vi, p. 68 (1803-4). 



Grapsus cinereus Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. i, p. 99 (1817). 



Grapsus pelagiciis Say, 1. c, p. 443 (1818), 



Planes clypeatns Bowdich, 1. c, p. 15, PI. f. 2 (1835). 



Grapsns testudineum et pelagicus Roux, Crust. Med., PI. VI, f- 6-7 



(1838-30). 

 Ocypoda ( Grapsus) pusillus De Haan, op. cit., p. 59, PI. XVI, f. 2 



(1835). 

 Naiitilogra^isus minutus Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust, ii, p. 90 (1837). 

 Grapsus divis Costa, Fauna Napoli, Crustaces, PI. IV, f. 1 (1838-1851). 

 Planes mvtmtus Wliite, Cat. Brit. Mus. Crust, p. 43 (1847) 

 Kautilograpsiis Major et Smithii, McLeay in Smith Zool., South Africa, 



Annulosa, pp. 66-67 (1849). 

 Planes Unneana Bell, British Stalk-eyed Ciiistacea, p. 135 (1851). 

 Planes eyaneus Dana, Proc. Phil. Acad., 1851, p. 250. 

 Wautilograpsus angustatus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 

 1858, p. 103. 



Carapax smooth, arcuate in both directions ; front nearly 

 straight, post-orbital tooth small, sometimes obsolete. Sides 

 arcuate. Meros of chelipeds with its inner distal border dentate ; 

 Carpus with a tubercle on the inner surface ; hand smooth, fingers 

 deflexed. Ambulatorj^ feet compressed, ciliate. 



Gulf Stream! (Many Collectors); West Indies! (Dr. Griffith); Suri- 

 nam! (Dr. Hering); Falkland Is.! (Dr. Wilson); Peru! (Dr. 

 Ruschenberger) ; West Coast of Mexico ! Alaska ! (Dr. W. H. Jones) ; 

 China! (Capt. Putnam); N€^n Zealand! Natal! (Dr. Wilson); Rio 

 Ganibia! (J. Cassin); Mediterranean (Dr. Wilson); France! 

 (Guerin); " toutes des me7-8!^' (Guerin). Guerin's ideas of the dis- 

 tribution leave nothing more to be said. 



Genus EUCHIROGRAPSUS M.-Edwards, 1853. 



Carapax depressed, subquadrate, sides slightlj' arcuate, with 

 three teeth behind the orl;»ital angle ; orbits entire. Antennae long, 



cies in these words : " A small crab, f. 3, a and b, which I conceive to be a 

 new species of Planes was found in gi-eat numbers amongst the anatiferse." 

 In a foot-note the species is described as follows : "It was of a delicate, 

 but bright, rose-color ; from the symmetrical form of its test (notched so 

 regularly as to increase the projection and distinctness of its chaperon), it 

 may be called P. clypeafi/s." This can hardly be considered as a sufficient 

 description to establish the genus, and hence I prefer to retain the com- 

 monly accepted name. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



entering the orbit; Meros of the external maxillipeds about half 

 the length of the ischium, its outer distal angle rounded, its inner 

 excavate and bearing the palpas. 



E. liguricus Edwards. 



EuclnrograptiitK Uguneus Edwards, Archives du Museum, vii, p. 153, 



PI. X, f, 2 (1853). 



Nice (Edwards). 

 Genus BRACHYGRAPSUS nov. 



Carapax broader than long, arcuate, without transverse lineation, 

 sides nearlj^ straight, with one tooth behind the angle of the orbit. 

 Meros of the external maxillipeds shorter than broad, its external 

 distal angle prominent, the internal one bearing the palpus.^ 



B. Isevis nov. 



Front straight, external angles of orbit not prominent, tooth of 



lateral margin spiniform. Meros of cheliped triquetral, bearing an 



obtuse tooth on the upper border. Carpus with an acute internal 



spine. Hands inflated, smooth ; fingers acute. Ambulatory feet 



elongate, slender, but slightly compressed, the dactjdi longer than 



the propodal joints. 



New Zealand ! (E. Wilson). 



Genus PTYCHOGNATHUS Stimpson, 185S {Gxnihoffrajims A. M.-Edwards). 



Carapax flat, lateral border emarginate. External maxillipeds 

 verj' broad, nearly meeting, the exoguatli fully as broad as the 

 ischium. The carpus bears the palpus at the middle of the ante- 

 rior margin, and has the external distal angle strongly produced. 



Sijnoj^sis of Species. 



Exognath of external maxilliped extending to or exceeding the external 

 distal angle of the ineros. riedelii. 



Exognath extending only to the middle of the meros. 



Oblique portion of branchial ridge bounded by a granulated ridge. 



jnlipes. 

 Oblique portion without a prominent boundary. pvsUlus. 



Insufficiently characterized. glaher. 



P. glaber Stimpson. 



Ptychognathns (jlahcr Stimpson. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 

 1858, p. 104. 



Bonin I. (Stm. ) 



1 I am not certain as to the exact position of this genus, as it appears to 

 combine the characters of both the Cydometopa and Catometopa. In the 

 form of carapax and structure of the external maxillipeds it closely resem- 

 bles Trapezia. In the male genital appendages it is allied to the Grapsidce, 

 where for the present I prefer to allow it to remain. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Dr. Stimpson's short diagnosis presents no characters which are 

 not held in common by both P. riedelii and pilipes, excepting the 

 non-pilose hand, which in other species of the genus is only of 

 sexual importance. 



P. riedelii Kingsley ex A. Milne-Edwards. 



Gnathograiisus riedelii A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Museum, iv, p. 



182, PI. XXVII, f. 1-0 (1868). 



Celebes (A. M.-Edw.). 

 P. pusillus Heller. ^ ' 



Pfi/chognathns pusillus Heller, Riese der Novara Crustaceen, p. 60, 1867. 

 Onathograpsus barbatiis A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Museum, ix, p. 

 316, PL XVII, f. 4, 1872. 



Carapax depressed, nearly smooth, with a few shallow impres- 

 sions anteriorly. Front slightly sinuate. Antero-lateral margin 

 with two indistinct teeth behind the orbital angle. Chelipeds finely 

 granulate, but without spines or tubercles. Hands of the male 

 with a lanose spot on the outside at the base of the fingers ; in the 

 female this is wanting. The exognath of the external maxillipeds 

 reaches only to the middle of the meros. Ambulatory feet slender, 

 compressed. 



Mauritius! (Guerin'); Nicohars (Heller); New Caledonia (A. M.- 

 Edw. ) 



P. pilipes Kingsley ex A. Milne -Edwards. 



Onathograpsus pilipes A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Museum, iv, 184, 

 PI. XXVII, f. 6-10 (1868). 



This species is scarcely more than a variety of P. pusillus, but 

 I prefer for the present to leave them separate. 



Philippines and Celebes (A. M.-Edw.). 



Genus ACM^OPLEUEA Stimpson, 1858. 



Carapax depressed, the antero-lateral margins entire. External 

 maxillipeds nearly meeting the meros, bearing the palpus on the 

 middle of the anterior margin ; the exognath narrow. 



A. parvula Stimpson. 



Acmceopleura parvula Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 

 1858, p. 105. 



Japan (Stimpson). 



Genus PSEUDOGRAPSUS M. Edwards (1837), reatr. 



Carapax depressed, transverse ; sides arcuate, with two teeth 

 behind the orbital angle. Front less than half the width of the 



1 These were labeled by Guerin " Sesarnia penicillata sp. ined." 




1880,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



carapax. Meros of external maxillipeds broader than long, 

 shorter than the ischium and with its external distal angle 

 strongly produced. 



Synopsis of Species. 



Hands inflated without elevated lines. 



Fingers with many long hairs, carapax inflated. setosus. 



Hairs on the hand between the bases of the fingers short, 

 carapax flat. albus. 



Hands with an elevated line on the lower outer surface, fingers 



without hairs. craisus. 



P. setosus. 



Cancer barbatus Rumph., PI. X, No. 2 (1705). 



Cancer setosus Fabricius, Suppl, Ent, Syst., p. 339 (1798). 



Grapsus penicilliger Latr., Reg. An, (I Edit.), iii, p. 16, PL XII, f. 1 



(1817). 



Eriocheir? penicilliger De Haan, Fauna Japonica, Crust,, p. 31 (1835), 



Pseudograpsus penicilliger Edw., Hist. Crust., ii, p. 83 (1837). 



Pseudogrupsus barbatus Edw., Ann, Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 191 (1853). 



Eastern Seas (Auct). 

 P. albus Stimpson. 



Pseudograpsus albus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci., Phila., 1858, 



p. 104, 



Japan (Stimpson) ; New Caledonia (A, M,-Edwards), 



P. crassus A, Milne-Edwards. 



Pseudograpsus crassus A, M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., iv, p. 176, 

 PI, XXVI, f. 6-10 (1868), 



Celebes (A. M,-Edw), 



Genus VARUNA Edwards, 1830 {Trichopus De Haan, 1835). 



Carapax depressed, sides arcuate, two-toothed. Antennulae 

 oblique. Antennae entering the orbit ; external maxillipeds 

 slightly gaping. Meros much shorter than the ischium, its ex- 

 ternal distal angle expanded. Palpus articulating with the middle 

 of the anterior margin. Exognath half as wide as ischium. 

 Ambulatory feet compressed, natatorial, 



V. litterata Milne-Edwards ex Fabricius. 



Cancer litterata Fabr., Suppl. Ent. Syst., p. 342 (1798). 

 Trichopus litterata De Haan, Fauna Japonica, Crust., p. 32 (1835). 

 Vai-una litterata Edw,, Diet. Class. d'Hist. Nat., xvi, p. 511 (1830). 

 Hist, Nat, Crust., ii, p, 95 (1837), 



Carapax smooth, cardiac region partly circumscribed. Front 

 straight, orbits fissured above, lateral teeth sepai-ated bj' slight 

 fissures. Posterior margin of meros of chelipeds acute, the 




206 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



inferior granulate, the anterior with spiniform tubercles. Carpus 

 with a prominent internal spine and one or two smaller ones. 

 Hands inflated, rough, an elevated line on the lower outer margin. 

 Ambulatory feet strongly compressed, margins ciliate. In a 

 specimen from New Zealand the carpal spines are wanting. 



Philippines / (E. & T. B. Wilson) ; Indian Ocean/ (Guerin) ; New 

 Zealand! (E.Wilson); China! (Capt. Putnam, Peab. Acad.) ; 

 Fenang! (J.P.Ward, Peab. Acad.) ; Japan (Miers); Mauritius 

 (A. M.-Edw.). 



Genus TITICA "White, 1847. 



Carapax depressed, sides more or less arcuate, two-toothed. 

 Antennulse oblique. Antennae entering the orbit. Meros of 

 external shorter than the ischium, its external angle not expanded. 

 Posterior feet compressed. 



Synopsis of Sjiecies. 



Inner margins of fingers strongly haired. hariimanus. 

 Hands naked. 



Angles of front acute. gracilipes. 



Angles of front rounded. glabra. 



v. gracilipes White. 



Utica gracilipes White, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1847, p. 86. Adams and 

 White, Voyage Samarang, Crust., p. 53, PI. XIII, f. 6 (1850). 



Philippines ( White. ) 

 U. glabra A. Milne-Edwards. 



Utica glabra A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 296, PI. XIV, 



f. 3 (1878). 



New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 



U. barbimanus A. Milne-Edwards, 



Utica barbimanus A. M.-Edw., 1. c, p. 297, PL XIV, f. 4 (1873). 



New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.) 



Genus GLYPTOGEAPSUS Smith, 1870. 



Carapax transverse, distinctly areolate, sides arcuate, three- 

 toothed. AntennfE entering the orbit. Extei-nal masillipeds 

 nearly meeting. Ischium and meros nearly equal in length, very 

 broad, the meros being broader than long, its external distal angle 

 not expanded. Ambulatory feet elongate, the dactyli quadran- 

 gular and spinose. 



G. impressus Smith. 



Glyptograpsus impressus Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 154 (1870). 

 Acajutla, West Coast of Central America (Smith). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 207 



Genus HETEROGRAPSUS Lucas, 1849. 

 {Paeudograpsus, pars, Edw., Dana: Hemujrapsus Dana. 



Carapax arcuate, front inclined, antero-lateral margins dentate- 

 External maxillipeds nearly closing. The meros as long or longer 

 than broad, and bearing the palpus on the middle of its anterior 

 border, the exognath narrow. 



As the distinctions between the species are mainly comparative 

 and the descriptions of authors are very brief, no sj'nopsis can 

 be given. The species may however be divided into two sections, 

 according to the number of teeth on the antero-lateral margin. 



A. Antero-lateral margin inth tico teeth behind the orbital angle. 



H. Incasii Edwards. 



Heterograpsus sexdentatus Lucas, Exploration Algiers, 1, p. 19, PI. II, 



f. 4 (1849), (nee Edwards^. 

 Heterograpsus lucasii Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 193 (1853). 



Carapax regularly arcuate, epigastric lobes but slightly indi- 

 cated. Front four-lobed. Antero-lateral margin with two promi- 

 nent, narrow, acute teeth. Chelipeds without spines or tubercles, 

 the hands of the male are smooth and rounded, in the female thej' 

 have a double crest above and two elevated lines on the outer 

 surface. 1 Ambulator}' feet slender, naked ; dactyli long and 



slender. 



Algiers! (Dr. T. B. Wilson) ; Candiu (Edwards). 



H. sexdentatus Edwards. 



Cyclograpsus sexdentatus Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 79 (1837). 

 Hemigrapsus sexdentatus Dana, U. S. Expl. Exped., Crustacea, p. 348, 



PI. XXII, f. 2 (2850). 

 Heterograpsus sexdentat^ts Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 192, 

 PI. vii, f. 7 (1853). 



Carapax arcuate, surface uneven, laterally granulate. Epi- 

 gastric lobes prominent. Front straight. Antero-lateral margin 

 with two teeth behind the orbital angle, the teeth broad, the 

 emarginations narrow. Chelipeds without spines or tubercles. 

 Hands small, fingers excavate. Ambulatory feet moderate, naked ; 

 dactyli short and stout. 



Australia! (E. Wilson) ; Neic Zealand! (Dr. T. B. Wilson) ; Bay 

 of Islands (Dana). 



1 Milne-Edwards (1. c, p. 192,) divides this section of the genus into 

 two groups, one with the hands roiuided and without longitudinal cre.sts, 

 the other with cre.sts a division which evidently cannot be maintained. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



H. sanguineus Edwards ex De Haan. 



Grapsus sanguineus De Haan, Fauna Japonica, Crustacea, p. 58, PL 



XVI, f. 3 (1835). 

 Orapsus marmoratus White, Cat. Brit. Museum, Crust., p. 41, 1847 



( sine descr. ) . 

 P-seudograpsus nudus Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila,, 1851, p. 349, 



Expl. Exped., Crust., p. 335, PI. XX, f. 7 (1852). 

 Heterograpsus sanguineus, marmoratus et maculatus Edw., Ann. Sci. 



Nat., Iir, XX, p. 193 (1853). 

 Heterograpsus nudus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, 



p. 104. 



Carapax posteriori}^ nearly flat, in front arcuate, with scattered 

 punctae and a carved line of larger depressions running inward 

 from the last tooth of the lateral margin. Front obsoletely two- 

 lobed ; antero-lateral margin with two teeth closely similar to 

 those of H. sexdentatus. Chelipeds smooth, with small red spots, 

 which persist in alcoholic or dried specimens. Hands with an 

 external crest, becoming obsolescent with age ; fingers excavate. 

 Ambulatory feet short, stout, naked, punctate ; the dactyli very 



stout. 



California ! (many localities and collectors) ; Vancouver Is. ! (Dr. 

 A. S. .Packard, Jr., in Peabody Acad. Science); San Lorenzo, 

 Gulf of California! (Wilkes' Expedition); Australia! (E. 

 Wilson) ; Japan (De Haan) ; Punipet and Auckland (Heller) ; 

 Hong Kong (Stimpson) ; Sitka (White) ; Polynesia (Edwards). 



H. crassimanus Kin^sley ex Dana. 



Hemigrapsus' crassimanus Dana, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1851, p. 250. 

 U. S. Ex. Exped., Crust., p. 349, PI. XXII, f. 4 (1852). 



Hawaian Is. (Dana). 

 H. crenulatus Edwards ex GuTin. 



Grapsus crenulatus Guerin, Voy. Coquille, ii, pt. i, p. 15 (1838).' 

 Cyclograpsus crenulatus Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 80 (1837). 

 Hemigrapsus crenulatus Dana, U. S. Ex. Ex., Crust., p. 349, PI. XXII, 



f. 3 (1852). 

 Heterograpsus crenulatus Edward.s, Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 193 



(1853). 

 Heterograpsus barbigerus Heller, Yerh. Z. B. Gesellschaft Wien, 



1862, p. 522. 

 Heterograpsus barbimanus Heller, Novara Crustacea, p. 53, PI. IV, 

 f. 5 (1867). 



Australia (Guerin) ; Mic Zealand (Edwards) ; Bay of Islands 

 (Dana) ; Punipet and Auckland (Heller). 



1 The title bears the date 1830, the introduction to the Crustacea and 

 Arachnida, "15 Novembre 1838," and the plates 1826. Guerin in his de- 

 scription, refers to Milne-Edwards' classic work as then in manuscript. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 209 



H. elongatus A, M.-Edw. 



IIetero(]raj)sus elongatus Alpb. Milne-Edwards, Nouv. Arch, du Mu- 

 seum, ix, p. 317, PI. XVII, f. 5 (1873). 



Ifew Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.)- 

 H, oregonensis Stimpson ex Dana. 



Pseudograpsus oregonensis Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 

 1851, p. 248. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 334, PI. XX, f. 6 (1852). 



Heterograpsus oregonensis Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadel- 

 phia, 1858, p. 104. 



Carapax depiessed, anteriorlj' iri-egularly roughened ; proto- 

 gastric lobes defined. Front four-lobed, the inner lobes the more 

 prominent. Antero-lateral margin with two prominent teeth. 

 Chelipeds without spines or tubercles. Hands with an elevated 

 line on the lower outer surface, the inner surface of the hand of 

 the male with a pilose spot. Ambulatory feet moderate, ciliate. 

 Pacific Coast of North America from Puget Sound! (Geo. Davidson); 

 to Santa Cruz! (Miss Hecox). 



There are two si3ecimens belonging to this species in the Mu- 

 seum of the Academy, bearing the label " New Providence, W. I., 

 Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr." 



H. penicillatus Stimpson ex De Haan. 



Briocheir penicillatus De Haan, op. cit., p. 60, PI. XI, f. 6 (1835). 

 Heterograpsus penicillatus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadel- 

 phia, 1858, p. 104. 



Japan (De Haan). 

 H, erythraeus Kingsley ex Kossmann. 



Pseudograpsus erythra'us Kossmann, Reise in den Kiistengebiete des 



rothen Meeres, p. 61, PI. 1, f. 5 (1877). 



Bed Sea (Kossmann). 

 H. pallipes Milne-Edwards. 



Pseudograpsus pallipes Edw., Hist. Crust., ii, p. 82 (1837). 

 Heterograpsus pallipes Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 194 (1858). 



Atistralia (Edw.). 



B. Antero-lateral margin with three teeth behind the orbital angle. 



H. octodentatus Edwards. 



Cyclograpsus octodentatus Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 80 (1837). 

 Heterograpsus octodentatus Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 194 

 (1853). 



Locality unknown. 

 H. affinis Kingsley ex Dana. 



Hemigrapsus affinis Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1851, 

 p. 250. U. S. Exp. Exped., Crustacea, p. 350, PI. XXII, f. 5 (1852). 



Patagonia (Dana). 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



H. spinosns Edw. 



Heterograpsus spinosus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx. p. 194 (1853). 



Vanikoro (Edw.) ; Australia (A. M.-Edw. 



Genus ERIOCHEIR De Haan (1835). 



Carapax quadrate, antero-lateral margin two-toothed. Front 

 much less than half the width of the carapax. Antennulffi 

 oblique. Antennae not excluded from the orbit. External 

 maxillipeds nearly closing. Meros as long as broad, the external 

 distal angle not expanded and the carpus articulating with the 

 middle of its anterior border. 



Synopsis of Species. 

 Sides convex. 



Mesial frontal lobes rounded. japonkus. 



Frontal lobes acute. sinensis. 



Sides straight. rectus. 



E. japonicus De Haan. 



Eriocheir japonicus De Haan, op. cit., p. 59, PI. XVII (1835). 



Carapax nearly flat, surface uneven. Front four-lobed, mesial 

 lobes rounded, outer lobes acute ; protogastric lobes prominent, 

 granulate. Antero-lateral border two-toothed, with indications of 

 a third. Meros of chelipeds with the margins granulate, the 

 posterior terminating in an acute tooth. Carpus with a promi- 

 nent internal spine ; distal margin of the carpus and external 

 surface of the hand with thickly set long hair ; the inner surface 

 of the palm with a short horizontal line of granules. Fingers 

 sub-excavate. Ambulatory feet hairj^ above. 



Japan! (no donor's name). 

 E. sinensis. 



EriocJieirlxsl sinensis Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 177 (1853). 

 Arch, du Mus., vii, p. 146, PI. IX, f. 1 (1854). 



G?dna (Edw.). 

 E. rectus. 



Eriocheir rectus Stirapson, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., 1858 p. 103. 



Macao (Stimpson). 



Genus PERIGRAPSUS Heller, 1862. 



Carapax convex, sides arcuate, with one tooth behind the angle 

 of the orbit. Front narrower than half the width of the carapax. 

 Meros of the external maxilliped a little longer than broad and 

 beai'ing the palpus on the external angle. Dactyli of ambulatory 

 feet spined. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



P. excelsus Heller. 



Perigrapsus excelsus Heller, Verb. Zool. Bot. Ges. Wien, 1862, p. 522. 



Novara Crust., p. 50, PI. V, f. 1 (1865). 



TaUti (Heller). 



Genus PLATYGRAPSTJS Stimpson, 1858 {Platynotus De Haan, 18.35, preocc). 



Carapax flat. Front horizontal. Sides nearly straight, with 

 two teeth behind the angle of the oi'bit. Meros of the external 

 maxilliped longer than the ischium and bearing the palpus on the 

 external angle. 



P. depressus Stimpson ex De Haan. 



Platynotus depressus De Haau, Fauna Japonica, Crust., p. 63, PI. VIII, 



f. 2 (1835). 

 Platygrapsus depressus et convexiusculus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phila., 1858, p. 104. 



Carapax depressed, smooth; front horizontal , four-lobed , mesial 

 lobes the larger; sides with two teeth behind the angle of the 

 orbit, the posterior tooth indistinct. Chelipeds smooth and 

 unarmed ; meros with the anterior margin acute ; carpus without 

 spines or tubercles ; hand with an elevated line on the lower outer 

 surface ; fingers slender, gaping. Ambulatory feet elongate. 



Japan! (no donor's name); Hong Kong (Heller); LooChoo (Stimpson). 



Tribe Sesarmini (Sub-family /SesarmincB Dana). 



Meros and ischium of the external maxillipecls crossed obliquelj- 

 by a piliferous ridge. 



Genus METASESARMA Edw (1853). 



Carapax quadrate, sides but slightly arcuate, entire ; front 

 broad, deflexed. Sub-orbital lobe large, meeting the front and 

 excluding the antennae from the orbit. Meros of external maxilli- 

 ped greatl}^ elongate, its apex rounded. 



Si/nojjsis of Species. 



Hands smooth, externally and above. roiisseauxi. 



Hand roughened above. granulans. 



Haud roughened above and externally. trapezium. 



M. rousseauxi Edw. 



Metasesarma rousseauxi Edw., Ann, Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 88 (1853). 

 Arch, du Mus., vii, p. 158, PI. X, f. 1 (1854). 



Zanzibar (Edw.). 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



M, granulans^ Heller. 



Metasesarma granularis Heller, Verb. Z. B. Ges. "Wien, 1863, p. 523. 



Metasesarma rugulosa Heller, Novara Crust., p. 65 (1865). 



TaUU (Heller). 

 M. trapezium Stimpson ex Dana. 



Sesarma trapeziu7n Dana, U. S. Expl. Exped. p. 354, PI. XXII, f. 8 



(1852). 



Metasesarma trapezium Stimpsou, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbila., 1861, 



p. 373. 



Sandioich Is. (Dana). 



Genus SARMATIXJM Dana, 1851 {Metagrapsua Edw., 1853). 



Carapax convex, sides arcuate, entire or toothed. Front in- 

 clined, less than half the width of the carapax. External maxilli- 

 peds nearly as in Sesarma. Ambulatory feet with the margins 

 entire. 



Synopsis of Species. 



Sides of carapax with two teeth behind the orbital angle. 

 Hands externally smooth and rounded. 



Carapax smooth, band transversely plicate above. crassum. 



Carapax areolate, hand smooth above. curvatum. 



Hands externally roughened. 



Hands externally bearing a pectinate crest. pectinatum. 



Hands without a prominent external crest. 



Hands with an internal granulate ridge. punctatum. 



Hands entire within. indicum. 



Sides of carapax entire. integrum, 



S. crassum Dana. 



Sarmatium crassum Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1851, p. 

 U. S. Expl. Exped., Crust., p. 358, PI. XXIII, f. 1 (1852). 



Samoan Is. (Dana). 

 S. curvatum Kingsley ex Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma curvata Edw., Hist. Crust., ii, p. 75 (1837). 



Metagrapsus curvatus M.-Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 189 (1853). 



Arch, du Mus., vii, p. IGO, PI. X, f. 3, 1854. 



Senegal (Edw.). 



S. pectinatum Kingsley ex Milne-Edwards. 



Metagrapsus pectinatus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 189 (1853). 



Martinique (Edw.). 

 S. punctatum Kingsley ex A. Milne-Edwards. 



Metagrapsus punctatus A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 308, 



PI. XVII, f. 2 (1873). 



Neio Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 



' I have here as in other places employed the earlier name ; what reason 

 Dr. Heller had for the change I cannot imagine. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHTLADELPHIA. 213 



S. indicum Kingsley ex A. Milne-Edwards. 



Mctagra'psus indicus A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, dii Mus., iv, p. 174, 



XXVI, f. 1-5 (1868). 



Celebes (A. M.-Edw.). 



S, integrum Kingsley ex A. Milne- Edwards. 



Metagrapsiis integer A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 309, 



PL XVII, f. 3 (1873). 



New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 



Genus RHACONOTTJS Gtrstsecker, 1866. 



Carapax sub-quadrate, sides areuate, toothed. Front narrow, 

 about one-third the width of the carapax. Mei'os of external 

 maxillipeds nearly- as broad as long and about half the length of 

 the ischium. Ambulatory feet compressed, the margins of the 

 joints serrate. 



B. crenulatus Gerstrecker. 



Rhaconotus crenulatus Gerstsecker, Arcliiv fiir Naturgeschicbte, xxi, 



p. 142 (1856). 



Locality unknown. 



Genus SESARMA Say, 1818. (Pachysoma De Haan, 1835. Holometopus Edw., 1853.). 



Carapax thick, quadrate, lateral margins straight, entire or 

 toothed. External maxillipeds with an oblique piliferous ridge 

 crossing the ischium and meros ; the meros elongate, its apex 

 rounded. Antenna? entering the orbit. 



I have not attempted to revise the species of this genus on 

 account of a lack of sufficient material. I merely give a list of 

 the described' species, indicating in a few cases the synonymy, 

 but leaving the task of comparing a large number of poor descrip- 

 tions to some future carcinologist. 



S. aflBnis Edw. (= ? quadrata). 



Orapsus (Pachysoma) affinis De Haan, op. cit., p. 61, PI. XVIII, f. 



5 (1835). 

 Sesarma affinis Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 183 (1853). 



Japan (De Haan) ; China (Edw.) ; Natal (Krauss). 

 S. africana Edwards. 



Sesarma africana Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 73 (1837). 



Senegal (Edw.). 

 S. americana Saussure. 



Sesarma americana Saixssure, Mem. Soc. Phys. et Hist. Nat., xiv, p. 

 441 (1858). 



St. Thomas, W, I. (Saussure). 

 S. angolensis Capello. 



Sesarma angolensis Capello, Descr. tres sp. Nov. Crust, du Africa Oc- 

 cident, p. 4, f. 2 (1864). 



Angola, West Africa (Capello). 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE^n' OP [1880. 



S. angusta Smith. 



Sesarma angusta Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 159 (1870). 



Panama (Smith). 

 S. angustifrons A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma angustifrons A. M.-Edw., Noiiv. Arch, du Mus. Bulletin, v, 

 p. 26 (1869). 



Sandwich Is. (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S, angustipes Dana. 



Sesarma angustipes Dana, U. S. Expl. Exped., Crust., p. 853, PI. XXII, 



f. 7 (1853). 



Florida ! West Indies ! Brazil ! 

 S. aspera Heller. 



Sesarma aspera Heller, Novara, Crust., p. 63, PI. VI, f. 3 (1865). 



Nicohars, Ceylon, Madras (Heller). 

 S. atrorubens Hess. 



Sesarma atrorubens Hess, Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, xxxi, p. 149, 

 PI. VI, f. 13 (1865). 



Sydney, Australia (Hess). 

 S. aubryi A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma aubryi A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch., Bulletin, v, p. 35 (1869). 



Nouv. Arch., ix, p. 307, PI. XVI, f. 3 (1873). 



JS'ew Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. bidens Milne-Edwards ex De Haan. ' 



Grapsus [Pachysoma) bidens De Haan, op. cit., p. 60, PI. XVI, f. 4, 



PL XI, f. 4 (1835). 

 Sesarma bidens Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 185 (1853). 



Japan (De Haan); Hong Kong, Nicobars (Heller); Friendly Is. 

 (Dana) ; Ceylon, Zanzibar (Hilgendorf). 



S. boucourti A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma boucourti A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 38 (1869). 



Siam (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. chirogona Tozzetti. 



Sesarma chirogona Targioni-Tozzetti, Zoologia del Viaggio della 



Magenta, p. 186, PI. IX (1877). 



Yokohama (Tozzetti). 

 S. cinereus Say ex Bosc. 



Grapsus cinereus Bosc, Hist. Nat. Crust., i, p. 204 PI. V, f. 1, 1802-3 



(teste Auct. ). 

 Sesarma cinerea Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., i, p. 443 (1818K 



Virginia ! to Florida ! and the West Indies I 

 S. dentifrons A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma dentifrons A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 31 (1869). 



Samoan Is. (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. dehaani Milne-Edwards. 



Grapsus (Pachysoma) guadratus De Haan, op. cit. p. 63, PI. VIII, f. 3 



(1835). 

 Sesarma dehaani Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 184 (1853). 



Japan (De Haan). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



S. dusumieri Milne-Edwards (= S. bidens). 



Sesarma dus^wiieri "Ed-w., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 185 (1853). 



Bombay (Edw.). 

 S. elegans Herklots. 



Sesarma elegans Herklots, Addit. ad Fauuam Afric. Occident., p. 10, 



PI. I, f. 10 (1851). 



Boutry, West Africa (Herklots). 

 S. elongata A. Milne-Edward?. 



Sesarma elongatum A. M.-Edw, Bulletin, 1. c, p. 30 (1869). 



Madagascar (A. M.-Edw). 

 S. erythrodactyla Hess. 



Sesarma erythrodactyla Hess, Arch, fiir Naturges., xxxi, p. 151, PI. VI, 



f. 10 (1865). 



Sydney, Australia (Hess). 

 S, eydouxi Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma eydouxi Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 184 (1853). 



Cochin China (Edw.); Madras (Heller). 

 S. fascicularis Hilgendorf ex Herbst, 



Cancer fascicularis Herbst, Krabben nnd Krebse, PI. XLVH, f. 5 



(1795). 

 Sesarma mederl'E.dyv,, Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 185 (1853) teste Hil- 

 gendorf. 



Batavia (Edw.). 

 S. frontale A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma frontale A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 27 (1869). 



Madagascar (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. germani A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma germani K. M.-Edw,, Bulletin, 1. c, p. 28 (1869). 



Poulo Condore. 

 S. gracilipes A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma inipressa jiin. Homb. et Jacq., Voy. Ast. et Zelee, Crust., PI. 



VI. f. 5. 



Sesarma gracilipes Edw., Ann. Sci Nat., Ill, xx, p. 182 (1853). 



Vaoa (Edw.); Nicobars (Heller). 

 S. guerini Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma guerini Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 183 (1853). 



Locality unknown. 

 S. gattatum A.Milue-Edwards. 



Sesarma guttatum A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 26 (1869). 



Zanzibar (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. haematocheir Kingsley e.\ De Haan. 



Orapsus {Pachysoma) hcematocJieir De Haan, op. cit. p. 67, PI. VII, 



f. 4 (1837). 

 Holometopus hamatocheir^ Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 188 (1853). 



Japan (De Haan). 



^ M. Milne-Edwards has elevated this species to distinct generic rank on 

 what seem to me wholly inadequate characters. A similar proceeding 

 with other Sesarmm would result in the creation of nearly a dozen genera. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



S. impressa Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma impressa Edw., HLst. Nat, Crust, ii, p. 74 (1837). 



Locality unknown. 

 S, indica Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma indica Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., i i, p. 74 (1837). 



Indian Seas (Edw.); Ceylon and Nicobars (Heller). 



S. intermedia Milne-Edwards ex De Haan. 



Grapszis (PacJiysoma) intermedia De Haan, op. cit., p. 61, PI. XVI, f. 



5 (1835). 

 Sesarma intermedia Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 186 (1853). 

 Sesarma Iceve A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 27 (1869). 



Japan (De Haan); Sliangliai, Hong Kong (Heller); 



Arrow Is. )A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. lafondi .Tacquinot et Lucas. 



Sesarma lafondi Jacquinot et Lucas, Voyage Astrolabe et Zelee, 



Crast., p. 70, PI. VI, f. 4 (1853). 



Batavia (J. and L.). 

 S. leptosoma Hilgendorf. 



Sesarma leptosoma Hilgendorf, in Decken's Reise, p. 91, PL VI, f. 1 



(1869). 



Zanzibar (Hilgendorf). 



S. lividv.m A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma lividum A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 25 (1869), N. Arch., ix, 



p. 303, PI. XVI, f. 2 (1873). 



I^ew Caledonia {A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. longipes Krauss. 



Sesarma longipes Krauss, Slid Afric. Crust., p. 444, PI. Ill, f. 2 (1843), 



Umlass River, S. Africa (Krauss). 

 S. Mullerii A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma mulleri A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 29 (1869). 



. Desterro, Brazil (A. M.-Edw.). 



S. obesum Dana. 



Sesarma obesum Dana, Proc. Pliiia. Acad., 1851, p. 250; U. S. Expl. 



Exped., Crust., p. 35d, PI. XXII, f. 10. 



Balabac Straits (Dana). 

 S. oblonga Martens. 



Sesarma oblonga Martens, Monatsber. Akad. Wiss. Berlin, 1868, p. 611. 



Philippines (Martens), 

 S. obtusifrons Dana. 



Sesarma obtusifrons Dana, Proc. Phila. Acad, 1851, p. 250 ; U, S, Expl. 



Exped., Crust., p. 355, PI. XXII, f. 9 (1852). 



Sandwich, Is. (Dana). 

 S. occidentalis Smith. 



Sesarma occideyitalis Smith, Trans. Conn, Acad,, ii, p. 158 (1870), 



West Coast of Central America (Smith). 



S. pentagona Hutton (=.? S. tetragona). 



Sesarma pentagona Hutton, Trans, New Zealand lust,, 1875, p, 279, 



Ne%ci Zealand (Hutton). 




iS80.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



S. quadrata Milne-Edwards ex Fabricius. 



Ca7icer quadratus Fahr., Suppl. Ent. Syst., p. 341 (1798). 



Ocypoda plicata Bosc, op. cit., i, p. 198, 1803-3 (teste A, 3I.-Edw.). 



Orapsus {Pachysoma) pictus et affinis De Haaii, op. cit., pp. 61-66 



(1835-37). 

 Sesarma quadrata Edw., Hist. Xat. Crust., ii, p. 75 (1837). 

 Sesarma picta Krauss, op. cit., p. 45 (1843 j. 

 Japan (De Haan) ; New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.) ; Zanzibar (Hil- 

 gendorfj. 



S. recta Randall. 



Sesarma recta Randall, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliila., viii, p, 123 (1839). 



Surinam! (Randall). 

 S. reticulata, Say. 



Sesarma reticulata Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliila., i, pp. 73, 76 et 



442, PI. IV, f. 6 (1818). 



Sesarma cinerea De Kay, N. Y. Fauna, Crust., p. 15 (1842). 



Virginia ! to Florida ! 

 S. ricordi Milne- Edwards. 



Sesarma ricordi Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 183 (ISoS). 



Hayti (Edw.). 

 S. roberti Milne-EJwards. 



Sesarma reticulata McLeay in Smith Zool. S. Africa, p. 65 (18 ), vix 



Say. . 



Sesarma roberti 'Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 183 (1853). 



Gori! (Dr. Wilson) ; So. Africa (McLeay). 

 S. rotundata Hess. 



Sesarma rotundata Hess, 1. c, p. 149, PI. VI, f. 9 (1865). 



Sydney (Hess). 

 S. rotundifrons A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma rotundifrons A. M.-Ed., Bulletin,!, c. p. 30 (1869). 



Samoan Is. (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S, rupicola Stimpson. 



Sesarma rupicola Stimpson, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 106. 



Japan (Stimpson). 

 S. schiittei Iless. 



Sesarma schuttei Hess, 1. c, p. 150, PI. VI, f. 11 (1865). 



Sydney, Australia (Hess), 

 S. similis Hess (= S. atrorubens). 



Sesarma similis Hess, 1. c, p. 150 (1865). 



Sydney (Australia). 

 S. sinensis Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma sinensis Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 186 (1853). 



C7iina (Edw.). . 

 S. smithii Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma smithii Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 187 (^1853); Arch, du 

 Mus., vii, p. 149, PI. IX, f. 2 (1854). 



Natal (Edw.):; New Galedonia (A. M.-Edw.). 

 15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880 



S. sulcata Smith. 



Sesarma sulcata Smith, Trans. Coun. Acad., ii, p. 156 riSTO). 



Corinto, Nicaragua ! i .J. A. McNiel, Peab. Acad. 



S. taeniolata Miers ej; White MS. 



Sesarma tceniolata White MS., Miers, Proc. Zool. Soc., London (1877), 

 p. 137. 



Philippines! (Dr. Wilson, with White's label). 



S. tetragona Milne-E.lwards ex Fab icius. 



Cancer tetragonon Fabriciiis, Suppl. Ent. Syst., p. 341 fl798). 

 Grapautt tetragonon Latr., Hist. Crust, et Ins., vi, p. 71 (1803-4). 

 Sesarma tetragona Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 73 (1837). 



Zanzibar (Hilgendorfj to New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 



S. trapezoida Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma trapezoida Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 74 (1837). 



Locality unJcnown. 

 S. ungulata Milne-EdwarJ?. 



Sesarma ungulata Edw., Ann Sci. Nat. IK, xx, p. 184 (1853). 



Celebes (Edw.). 

 S. vestita Stimpson, 



Sesarma vestita Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, p. 106. 



Japan (Stimpson). 

 S. villosum A. Milne- Edwards. 



Sesarma villosum A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 31 (1869). 



Samoan Is. (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. violacea Herklots. 



Semrma violacea Herklots, op. cit., p. 10, PI. I, f. 9 (1851). 



West Africa! (Du Chaillu). 



Genus ARATTJS M.-Edw., 1853. 



Carapax trapezoidal, elongate, narrow behind, sides straight^ 

 entire ; front deflexed, verj- broad. External maxillipeds as in 

 Sesarma. Ambulatory- feet compressed, the dactyli very short- 



A. pisoni Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma in»o»{ Edw.. Hist. Crust., ii, p. 76, PI. XVI, f . 4-5 (1837). 

 Ar a tus 2^isoni Fidw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 187, 1853. 



Carapax transversely arcuate, the branchial regions obliquely 

 plicate. Front vertical, its margin two-lobed. Meros of cheli- 

 peds triquetral, the margins denticulate^ the anterior one slightl\- 

 expanded distally. Carpus externally granulate. Hands every- 

 where granulate, the fingers ornamented with pencils of stiff 

 black hairs. 



Florida! (H. E. Webster, Union College); West Indies! (many 



collectors and localities); West Coast of Nicaragua! (J. A. 



McNiel, Peab. Acad); Bio Janeiro (Heller i ; Praya, Brazil 



(Martens). 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



Genus CLISTOCCELOMA A. M.-Edwards, 1873. 



Cavapax sub-quadrate, sides dentate. Sub-ocular lobe large, 

 united to the front and excluding the antenna? from the orbit. 

 Meros of external maxillipeds short and rounded. 



C. balansae A. Milne-Edward?. 



Clistoca'lomn balanscv A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 311, 

 PI. XVII, f. 1 il873j. 



New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 



Genus HELICE De Haan (1835). 



Carapax quadrate, front deflexed, sides straight, with one, two 

 or three teeth behind the orbital angle. Antennaj entering the 

 orbit. Meros of external maxillipeds as long as or longer than 

 the ischium, its external distal angle prominent, its distal border 



truncate. 



Synopsis of Species. 



Lateral margin with three teeth behind the angle of the orbit. 

 Ambulatory feet with a single distal spine on the meros. 



A transverse ridge on the branchial regions. tridens. 



No transveree crest on the branchial regions. 



Hands smooth. spinicarpa. 



Hands roughened. latreiUei. 



Meral joints of ambulatory feet with several spines. dentipes. 



Lateral margin two-toothed. 



Hand strongly granulate. gdiuUchaudi. 



Hand nearly smooth. 



Meral joints of ambulatory feet with a spine on the 

 upper distal margin, the hands of the male with a 

 pilose spot at the base of the fingers. pilimana. 



Meral joints without spines, hands of male without 

 pilose spots. crassa. 



Lateral margin one-toothed. gibba. 



Imperfectly characterized. leachii. 



H. tridens De Hnan. 



Helice tridens De Haan, op. cit., p. 57, PI. XI, f. 2, PI. XVI, f. 6 (1835). 

 Carapax longitudinall}- strongly convex, punctate, front curved 

 downward, its anterior border sinuate when vicAved from above. 

 Superior margin of the orbit sinuate, oblique ; lateral margin 

 with three teeth behind the orbital angle, the posterior tooth 

 rudimentary. Branchial regions with an oblique i-idge running 

 inward from this tooth. Orbits coarsel}' crenulate below. In- 

 ferior borders of the meral joints of the cheli]ieds with small 

 tubercles. Carpus spined on the inside. Hands externally 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



smooth, siib-cristate and granulate above, internally granulate ; 



fingers excavate. Carpal and propodal joints of the first two 



pairs of ambulatory feet pilose in front. 



Japan! 

 H. spinicarpa Edward". 



H. spinicarpa Edwards, Ami. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 190 (1853). 



Locality unknown. 

 H. dentipes Heller. 



Eelice dentipes Heller, Novara Crust., p. 62, PI. V, f. 5. 



Ceylon (Heller). 

 H. latreillei Edwards. 



Cyclogrupsus latreillei 'E^vnwAs, Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 80 (1837). 

 Eelice Za/mto" Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 190 (1853). 



Mauritius (Edwards). 

 H. gaudichaudi Edwards. 



Eelice gaudichaudi Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 190, PI. VII, 

 f. 6 (1853). 



Sumatra (Edwards). 

 H. pilimana A. Milne-Edwards. 



Eelice pilimana Alph. Milne-Edwards, Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix p. 

 313, PI. XVIII, f. 1 (1872). 



New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 

 H. orassa Dana. 



Eelice crasm Dana, Proe. Phila. Acad. (1851), p. 252— U.S. Ex. Exp., 



Crust., p. 367, PI. XXIII, f. 8 (1853). 

 E. lucasii Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 190 (1853). 



Carapax closely resembling that of B. tridens, but with but two 

 teeth behind the orbital angle. Carpus of cheliped without an 

 internal spine, hands externally microscopically granulate, more 

 coarsely so internall}^, the upper margin acute. Carpal and pro- 

 podal joints of the first two i)airs of ambulator^' feet, pilose. 



This is probably but a variety of H. tridens. Small females 

 show the elevated line on the hand characterizing H. lucasii. 



New Zealand! (Dr. Wilson); Aukland (Heller); Australia (Dana). 

 H. leachii Hess. 



Eelice leacMi Hess, Arcliiv fiir Naturgeschichte, xxxi, p. 153 (1865). 



Sydney, Australia (Hess). 



Genus CYCLOGRAPSUS Edw. (1837)(restrict). (Gnathochasmus McLeay.) 



Carapax depressed, sides arcuate, entire front about half the 

 width of the carapax. Antenna not excluded from the orbit. 

 Meros of the external maxillipeds short, about as long as the 

 ischium; its external angle well marked, the palpus articulating 

 with the anterior margin. 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



C. punctatus Milne-Edwards. 



Cyclograpsui punctatus Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 78 (1837). 



Gnathochasmus barbatus McLeay, in Smith, Zool. S. Africa, p. 65 



(1838). 



Sesarma barbata Krauss, Svid Af. Crust., p. 45, PI. Ill, f. 3 (1843). 



Cyclograpsus audouinii, lavauxit, whitei, granulosus et reynaudi Edw., 

 Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 197 (1853). 



Cyclograpsus Imvis Hess, Archiv fiir Naturj^escliicbte, xxxi, p. 152 



(1865). 



Oarapax smooth or slightl}' granulate ; sides arcuate in front, 

 straight behind. Front broad, nearly straight. Orbits externally 

 broadl}- emarginate, the emarginatiou continuing backward as a 

 groove for some distance. Hands externallj' smooth, internally 

 with a prominent longitudinal ridge. Male abdomen triangular, 

 regularly tai^ering from the third to the sixth joints, the seventh 

 much narrower than the sixth. 



Neio Zealand! (Guerin); Australia! (E. Wilson and Wiikes' Ex- 

 pedition!; Cape of Good Hope, Madras, Java (Heller) ; New 

 Guinea (Edw.). 



C. granulatus Dana. 



Cyclograpsus granulatus Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1851, p. 

 251 ; U. S. Ex. Exp. Crust., p. 361, PL XXIII, f. 4 ^1852). 



Sandwich Is. (Dana). 

 C. cinereus Dana. 



Cyclograpsus cinereus Dana, Proc. Acad. (1851), p. 251 ; U. S. Ex. 



Exp. Crust., p. 360, PI. XXIII, f. 3 (1852*. 

 Cyclograpsus eydouxiY^dvf., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 198 (1853^ 



Valparaiso and Sandwich Is. (Dana). 

 C. longipes Stimpson. 



Cyclograpsus longipes Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (1858), 

 p. 105. 



Bo7iin Is. (Stimpson'. 

 C. integer Milne-Edward?. 



Cyclograpsui integer Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 79 (1837). 



Florida! (A. S. Packard, Jr., Peab. Acad.); Brazil (Edw.). 



Genus CHASMAGNATHUS DeHaan, 1835. [Paraijrapsns Edw.). 



Carapax convex, sides arcuate, dentate, front curved down- 

 ward Antenna not excluded fi'om the orbit. Meros of external 

 maxillipeds longer than broad, widest distall}-, its anterior border 

 slightly excavate, the palpus medially articulated. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880, 



Sijnojjsis of Species. 



Lateral margin with three tef th behind the orbital angle, 



the posterior tooth inconspicuous. convexus. 



Lateral margin with two teeth. 



Front rounded. nrvillet. 



Front nearly straight. gaimardii. 



Front excavate. 



Carapax and chelipeds granulate. granulatus. 



Carapax and chelipeds smooth. 



Epigastric lobes prominent. Icevis. 



Epigastric lobes inconspicuous. suhquadratu^ 



Lateral margin with one post orbital tot>th. quctdridentatui, 



C. convexus DeHaan. 



CMamagnatlms eonvexus DeHaan, Fanna Japonica, p. 55, PL VII, f. 

 5 (1835;. 



Jcifiin (DeHaan) ; Eastern Seas (Adams and White). 



C. subquadratns Dunn. 



CJiasmagnatTms siibquadratns Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.^ 

 1851, p. 251 ; U. S. F^x. Exp., Crust., p. 363, PL XXIIT, f. 5 (1852). 



Ne^!) Zeulaiidf Avstraliaf (Dana). 

 C laevis Dana (=- ? C. subqnadratus.) 



ChasmngnntMs laris Dana, Proc. Acad,, p. 252 ; Ex. Exp., p. 365, PI. 

 XXIII, f. 7 (18:;2). 



Paragi-npsus verremixi 'Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., HI xx, p. 195 (1853). 



Paragrnpsus lavis Heller, Novara Crust, p. 55 (1865). 



Carapax slightly convex, punctate ; regions not defined. Epi- 

 gastric lobes prominenf. Front deeply excavate in the middle, 

 when viewed from ahove. Antero-lateral teeth separated by 

 narrow fissures. Chelipeds everywliere smooth. Anterior surface 

 of carpus and propodus of first pair of ambnlatory feet tomentose. 



Australia! (Guerin ; Ne^e Zealand (Miers). 



C. urvillei Kingsl<y ex MiTne-Eduaids. 



Paragrapsus iirvillei'Edyf., Ann. Sci. Xat., Ill, xx, p. 196 (185-3). 



Va n ikoro I. ( E d w. ) . 

 C. granulatus Dara. 



Clucsmognathns granulatus Dana, Proc. Acad., 1851, p. 251 ; U. S. Ex. 

 Exp., Crust., p. 364, PL XXIII, f. 6 (1852). 



Helice granulata Heller, Novara Crust., p. 61 (1865). 



Carapax convex, distinctly areolate, granulate ; the granules 

 on the branchial regions being larger ; epigastric lobes obsolete. 

 Front curved downward and, viewed from aboA'e, deeply excavate. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



Sides of carapax acute, the fissures between the teeth being very 

 slight ; all of the border of the carapax finely crenulate. Chelipeds 

 •externally granulate. Carpus produced internally ; the inner sur- 

 face of the hand with a patch of granules on the inner surface. 

 Carpal joints of the ambulator}- feet longitudiually sulcate. 



Bio Janeiro I {Wilkes' Expedition); Bio Grande, Brazil! (Capt. 

 Harrington Peabody Academy). 



C gaimardi Milne Edwards. 



Cydograpsus gaimardi'Ed-w., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii,p. 79 (1837). 



Paragrapsus gaimardi 'Edw., Ann. Sci, Nat. Ill, xx, p. 196 (1853 . 



Australia (Edwards). 

 C, quadridentatus Kingsley <?•»• Milne-EiUvards. 



Paragrapsiis quadridentatus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., IH, xx, p 19.") 



(1853). 



Australia (Edw.). 



Sub family Plagusinse Dana.' 



Carapax flattened, antennula? longitudinally plicate, lodged in 

 sinuses of the front, and visible from above. 



Gtnus PLAGUSIA Latr., 18i)(j (restrict). 



Meros of external maxilliped well developed, as broad as the 

 ischium. 

 P. speciosa Dana. 



Cai-apax arcuate, covered everywhere with sqnamiform tubercles, 

 the inter paces being clothed with a short pubescence, these 

 tubercles Ijeing similar iu their arrangement to those of P. depressa 

 Sa}", but much more depressed than in that species. The margins 

 of the inter-antennular portion of the front is simple. Inferior 

 margin of the orbit acute, minutely denticulate. Sides of carapax 

 with two equal acute spiuiform teeth behind the angle of the orbit. 

 Feet closel}- resembling those of P. depressa., the ornamentatio» 

 being similar, but not so prominent. The hands, however, are 

 external!}- marked by six longitudinal impressed lines, the lowest 

 of them being on the inferior margin. The fingers are widely 

 gaping, the extremities deeply excavate. The dentiform process 



1 This sub family having recently been revised by Mr. Miers (Annals and 

 Magazine of Natural Ilistoiy, V, ix, pp. 147-154, February, 1878), and as 

 I agree with his determinations and ideas of specific bmits, I omit the 

 synopsis of species from this paper, merely giving a few notes on the more 

 uncommon forms. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



Oil the coxa of the third pair of aiiibulatoiy feet is niinutelj' 

 denticulate. The only additional character in the female is that 

 the squainag of the carapax are more depressed. 



Mr. Miers (1. c, p. 151) remarks: "Only a carapax of this 

 species is known." The carapax referred to, Dana's type, was 

 destroyed in the Chicago fire. The Academy possesses two 

 specimens, male and female, sent b}^ Mr. Andrew Garrett, from 

 Tahiti. 



Genus LEILOPHUS 1 Mi-rs, 1876. {Acanthnpus DeHaan.) 



Meros of external maxillipeds very small, and much narrower 

 than the ischium. 



L. pilimanus Miers ex A. M.-Edw. 



Specimens of this rare species are in the museum of the Academy, 

 from the Sandwich Is. (J. K. Townsend) and Tahiti (A. Garrett). 

 So far as I am aware, the only other specimen, in an^^ collection, 

 is the type in Jardin des Plantes at Paris. The British Museum 

 has no specimens. 



I am unable, either from the poorness of the descriptions, or 

 possible inaccurac}' of the figures, to assign the following species 

 to their proper generic positions. 



Cyclograpsus ? tasmanicus Jacquiiiot et Lucas, Voyage Astrolabe et 



Zelee, Crustaces, p. 76, PI. VI, f. 6 (1842-53). 



Tasmania (J. et L.). 



Cyclograpsus minutus J. et L., 1. c, p. To, PI. VI, f. 8 (1842-53). 



Chili [S. et L.). 



Grapsus inornaius Hess, Archiv fiir Naturgescliichte, xxxi, p. 148, 

 PI. VI, f. 11 (1865). 



Sydney, Australia (Hess). 



Grapsus Tiuzardi Desmarest, Consld. sur les Crust., p. 131 (1825). 



Senegal (Desmarest). 

 Cancer tridens Fabricius, Suppl. Eiit. Syst., p. 340 (1798). 



E. Indies (Fabricius). 

 Cancer Mspanus Herbst, PI. XXXVII, f. 1 (1796). 



Goniograpsus pulcher Lockington, Proc. Cal. Acad., vii, p. 152 (1876). 



Lower California (Lockington). 



M. Henri Milne-Edwards (Archives du Museum, vii, p. 158, 

 1854) mentions a genus Holograpsus, possibly intending Holonie- 

 topus. 



^ In the dismemberment of the genus Plugusia of Latreille, the name 

 Plagusia should have been retained for this section. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



June 1. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a Partula supposed to be new, 

 from the Island of Moorea," bj' W. D. Hartman, M. D., was 

 presented for publication. 



The Treasurer having announced the reception of a gift of 

 twenty thousand dollars from Jos. Jeanes, acting for the heirs of 

 the late Joshua T. Jeanes, who, in an unsigned codicil to his will, 

 had indicated his intention of bequeathing that amount to the 

 Academy, the following preamble and resolutions were unani- 

 mously adopted : 



Whereas, The late Mr. Joshua T. Jeanes in a codicil to his 

 will bequeathed to tlie Academy twenty thousand doHars, an act 

 which may be regarded as significant of his appreciation and ap- 

 proval of the objects of the Society, but left this codicil without 

 his signature, and therefore legally inoperative ; and, 



"Whereas, His executors have, placed in possession of the 

 Treasurer of the Academy the sum named, thus manifesting their 

 respect for the intention of their late brother in a most generous 

 and affectionate manner ; be it 



Eesolved, That the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia highly appreciates and gratefully acknowledges the generosity 

 of the executors of the late Joshua T. Jeanes in bestowing on the 

 Academy- twenty thousand, dollars in compliance with his wish, 

 simply indicated. 



Resolved, That the money thus bountifully given to the Society 

 be invested securely in the name of the Academy- of Natuial 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, to constitute a distinct and permanent 

 fund which shall be named the Joshua T. Jeanes Fund and the 

 income thereof shall be applied towards defraj'ing the ordinary 

 expenses of the Society. 



Seiyenline Belts of Radnor ToirnsJup. Delaware Co. — At the 

 last meeting of the Mineralogical and Geological Section of the 

 Academy' of Natural Sciences, Theodore D. Rand read a paper 

 on the Seri^entine Belts of Radnor Township, Delaware Countj', 

 and the adjacent rocks. He adduced facts which he thought in- 

 compatible with Mr. Charles E. Hall's view, that the middle belt 

 consists of altei'ed Hudson River shales, and stated that the belt 

 was not continuous but was a succession of outcrops nearly east 




220 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



and west from each oUier, the strike of which was, wherever ob- 

 servable, more N. E. and S. W. than the line joining them, thus 

 agreeing in stnicture with what Prof. Rogers states of the trap 

 dykes north of the serpentine in Chester County. He also called 

 attention to the existence of two trap dykes or two branches of 

 that extending through the Gulf Valley, and to curious markings 

 in quartz rock in the vicinity', suggestive of fossils in a formation 

 reaarded as azoic. 



-o" 



June 8. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twentj^-two persons jtresent. 



A paper entitled " On the Development of Lemna minor," by 

 Wm. Barbeck, was presented for publication. 



June 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " A Bibliographical Catalogue of the Genus 

 Partula, with observations on the Species," b}' W. D. Hartman, 

 M. D., was presented for publication. 



June 22. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



The deaths of AVni. G. E. Agnew and Morris L. Ilallowell, 

 members, were announced. 



June 29. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



The deaths of B. F, Lautenbach, M. D., and Wm. Kent Gilbert, 

 M. D., members, were announced. 



On some Hoviologies in Bnnodont Dentition — Dr. Harrison 

 Allen, in speaking of the teeth of the Carnivora, Insectivora and 

 Chiroptera, dwelt upon the forms of the canines and premolars as 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 227 



being valuable guides in interpreting the plan of the molars. He 

 traced the shapes of the last-named teeth from the sub-conical form 

 of the canine, with its associated cusplets or cingules characterizing 

 the canines, up to the complicated figures of the molars. Among 

 the seals, Leptonyx exhibits to the best advantage the figure result- 

 ing from the pronounced development of the antero-posterior cus- 

 plets, and is of still greater interest inasmuch as the molars retain 

 in all essential features the same parts. In genera where the form 

 of the molars is not so retained, the manner after which the depar- 

 ture takes place in the upper jaw is as follows : 



1. The buccal cingulum becomes developed. 



2. The buccal surface of the main' cusp is directed obliquelj^ 

 backward and inward, and at the same time becomes concave. 



3. In genera having the W-shaped pattern, the first V answers to 

 the concave, obliquel}^ placed buccal surface of the main cusp. 

 The second V is a vegetative repetition of the first, and is formed 

 from the posterior cusplet of the canine. 



The W thus formed is a conspicuous feature in the molars of 

 most Insectivora and Chiroptera. It can be traced through its 

 several stages of development from the Carnivora. The genera of 

 the Procyonidjne exhibit the transition adYantageously. Tiie W 

 of the upper jaw, while forming a portion of the free under-surface 

 of the crown, is not functionally active as part of the grinder, but 

 is an extremeJij ohiiquehj placed portion of the i^hearing buccal 

 surface, and is not articular. 



The V V seen from the palatal side of tooth form the summits 

 of two downward-projecting, prismoidal, shearing columns. Ex- 

 amined in relief from before backwards these columns are seen 

 to be of different relative lengths. In Vespertilio and Antrozous, 

 for example, where the appearance of the under free surfaces of 

 the crowns are almost identical, conspicuous differences in the 

 lengths of the columns are detected when the teeth are examined 

 with the columns in antero-posterior relief. 



Tiie elevations placed to the palatal side of the base of the 

 columns are developments from the palatal fold of the cingulum 

 of the caniniforni tooth. If oue cingule be alone developed it lies 

 to the median side of the first V. Should a second be present, it 

 lies in an analogous position to the second V, and is much less 

 pronounced than the first. 



The differences in the forms of the lower molars are traceable 

 to similar modifications of tlie simple cone and associated cusplets. 

 The second V is incomplete, the anterior limb not joining the 

 first to form a true W. There is no disposition to form a lingual 

 outgrowth. In its stead a tendency to backward projection from 

 the base of the second V exists. This projection is conveniently 

 called the " heel " of the tooth, and is always articular. 



The forms of the canines and premolars are not as simple and 

 imiform as they- at first sight appear. They often present remark- 

 able differences in their details. This is especially true of these 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



teeth in the Chiroptera. The buccal, approximal and median surfaces 

 should be carefully studied in the different genera. Full descrip- 

 tions of these differences would be out of place in a communication 

 of this kind. One notable feature of man_y as seen in the canines 

 is especially well developed in the bats, viz., the junction of the 

 buccal and palatal surfaces resulting in forming a thin com- 

 pressed posterior edge. This may receive the name of the 

 " sabre " edge. It is repeated and exaggerated in the last pre- 

 molar and forms at least in Chiroptera (other than the Pteropidse) 

 the " sectorial " surface of the tooth. It constitutes a sharp 

 obliquelj'-placed ridge which is parallel with the last stroke of the 

 first V, and is doubtless serially homologous therewith. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



DESCRIPTION OF A PARTULA SUPPOSED TO BE NEW, FROM THE ISLAND 



OF MOOREA. 



BY W. D. HART MAN, M. D. 

 Partula Mooreana, Hartman. 



Shell sinistral, ovate, elongate, thin, translucent, pale yellowish 

 horn-color, apex darker ; whorls 5, flatly conA-ex, bod^^-whorl, with 

 or without from one to three narrow, pale, brown revolving bands ; 

 surface smooth, with fine, oblique striations, which are decussated 

 by crowded waved spiral striie ; a narrow white line beneath the 

 suture ; aperture hearh'- half the length of the shell, lip white, 

 moderately reflected, pillar tooth oval, prominent, situated nearest 

 the superior angle, umbilicus open, moderately compressed. 



Length 18 mill., diameter 9 mill. 



Hab. — Yaianai Valley, Island of Moorea (Andrew Garrett, Esq.). 



In one hundred and fortj^-six species and varieties of Partula 

 represented in my collection, this shell possesses constant and 

 well-marked specific characters. Mr. Garrett informs me that 

 fifteen hundred specimens were all sinistral and dentate. The 

 surface of the shell resembles P. spadicea and varieties from 

 Moorea in possessing the thickly crowded waved spiral striffi. 



This species is arboreal, and is not uncommon on bushes, in 

 Yaianai Valley, the metropolis of P. vexiUum Pse. = P. steiiostoma 

 Ph. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF LEMNA MINOR. 

 BY WM. BARBECK. 



In the early part of last April, I found, in a little pond near 

 Gamden, N. J., among patches of Riccia fiuitans^ a number of 

 minute brownish bodies, which under the lens had very much the 

 appearance of germinating spores, showing at the top a greenish, 

 prothallium-like outgrowth. They were of an oval form, and less 

 than a millimetre in size. 



I secured several of these little bodies, and, upon further exam- 

 ination under the microscope, I found that the}' contained a well, 

 developed embryo, which was enclosed by a comparatively large 

 cotyledon. Thus they were evidently the seeds of some mono- 

 cotyledonous plant. 



I was not able to return to the pond until a week later. Within 

 this week the germination had been completed in a number of 

 specimens, and numerous little plants were developed, most of 

 them still in connection with the seed. These obovate, indis- 

 tinctly three-nerved individuals, with a single root hanging from 

 the under surface, were apparently Lemna minor. Thousands of 

 fresh seeds had meanwhile appeared at the surface of the water, 

 most of them germinating, and thus I could get the specimens in 

 all stages of their development. I have tried to show this gradual 

 development (up to the completion of the second frond) by a 

 series of illustrations, Plate XVIII. 



Figures I and II represent longitudinal sections through a seed 

 in which the germination is about to commence. (Fig. I is from 

 the centre, Fig. II from a part nearer to the surface). 



The seeds are seen surrounded by a comparatively strong 

 coat, the testa (^), which is considerably thickened towards the 

 top, where it covers the lid, or operculum (o), by means of which 

 the mycropyle is closed. In [c) we have the large cotyledon, 

 surrounded by a scanty layer of endospermium (sp.) ; in (u) and 

 (wj) the two lobes into which the cotyledon will afterwards split, 

 begin to be differentiated. The axis of the embryo (e) forms an 

 obtuse angle with the medial line of the cot3dedon. In {p) we 

 have the plumula, in {r) the radula of the embryo ; (/) indicates 

 a fissure inside of which the gemma of the second frond is being 

 formed. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



In Eig. Ill the testa has been removed from the cotyledon (c). 

 The two lobes are distinctlj' separate, iio) bearing the oi)erc'ulum 

 under which the upper part of the plumula is concealed. The 

 radula (r) is further developed ; in (g) we have the bud of the 

 second frond. The section in Fig. lY sliows the plumula (p) 

 fully developed into the first frond, which in (r) sends down its 

 radula. The angle formed by this frond and the axis of the cotj'- 

 ledon is about 120°. Corresponding to the first figures (c) and 

 (»'), are the lobes of the cotyledon. (^We have to bear in mind tliat 

 all the figures represent thin sections through the different parts.) 

 In rcalit}' the lobes of the cotyledon are two parallel obovate 

 sheets enclosing the basal part of the much larger, likewise obovate 

 frond. In this figure the gemma has been so far developed as to 

 show in ( f) the fissure in w-hich the bud of the third frond is 

 being clifierentiated. Its elongated inferior part (p') is the 

 secondarv plumula. In using a high power, the microscope will 

 show in the region indicated by (x) several rows of very wide cells. 

 Here the separation of the frond from the cotyledon will take place. 



In Fig. V this separation is complete. In (p') we have the 

 yet more elongated plumula, in (r') the radula of the second frond, 

 and (/') shows again the fissure for the formation of the third 

 individual. 



The section represented in Fig. YI goes through the radula (r), 

 showing a central vascular bundle (i) surrounded bj' a tissue of 

 very loose, almost hj-aline cells {I). In the further development 

 of the rootlet this outer tissue will follow the growth of the vascu 

 lar bundle to a certain extent ; then its basal part will be sepa- 

 rated from the frond. But, remaining in connection with the 

 more and more extending vascular bundle, this wide-celled tissue 

 will form at the top of the full-giown root the well-known hood or 

 calyptra, characterizing the roots in all Lemnacese. 



The last two figures (YII and YIII) need no further explanation. 

 The^' show the formation and completion of the second frond (pO> 

 from which the third individual will be developed in the same 

 way as has been illustrated in the first figures. In i^p") we have 

 the plumula, in (r") the radula of the third fronds ; (/") in 'Fig. 

 YIII shows the fissure for the formation of the fourth individual. 



In this way we see the propagation continued through the 

 summer, plant after plant being formed from a cleft of the pre- 

 ceding individual through a process of prolification. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880 



My investigations have been made only on the Lemna .minor ^ 

 but there is no reason to doubt that in the development of the 

 "whole family of Lemnacese (analogous to our species) we have an 

 interesting instance of parthenogenesis, there being seeds (pro- 

 duced in autumn by a sexual process) from which, during the 

 course of summer, generation after generation is propagated with- 

 out any further fertilization. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 233 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF HEMITSIPTERUS FROM ALASKA. 



BY AV. N. LOCKINGTON. 



Hemitripterus cavifrons, nov. sp. 



D. iv-xiv, 1-12. A. 14. P. 20. V. ^. C. 3-12-3. L. lat. 44. 



Head very large and depressed ; abdomen protuberant, so that 

 the depth equals the width ; snout to tip of ascending process ot 

 pre-maxillar}' rising at an angle of about 45^ ; thence to occiput, 

 along the median line of the fish, deeply concave ; from occiput 

 to caudal peduncle regularly arched, the curve reaching its highest 

 point at about the tenth dorsal spine. Outline of anal base 

 corresponding to that part of the dorsal directly above it. 



Depth, 3^ ; greatest width, 3^ ; length of head, 3^ ; length of 

 pectoral rather more than 4 times in the total length, caudal 

 included. 



Axial length of snout, 3f ; longitudinal diameter of orbit, 6f ; 

 interocular width, 2|| times in length of head ; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle rather less than 5 times in greatest depth. 



Anterior nostril on a level with the centre of tlie pupil, and 

 prolonged into a conspicuous tube ; posterior nostril somewhat 

 tubular. 



Orbits elevated considerabl}' above the general surface of the 

 forehead, so tliat the concavity of the inter-ocular area is equal lo 

 about f of the transverse diameter of the eye ; e^^es lateral, some- 

 what elliptical. 



Mouth very large, ver}' slightly oblique ; its width from tip to 

 tip of the opposite maxillaries, li in the length of the head, and 

 exceeding that of the upper jaw by more than one-third. 



Pre-maxillaries not forming the whole of the margin of the 

 upper jaw, the maxillaries entering into it posteriorly. 



Posterior extremity of maxillary considerably behind the orbit, 

 its upper margin not concealed by the pre-orbital in the closed 

 mouth. 



Lower jaw slighth' projecting beyond the upper. 



Several rows of sharp, recurved, cardiform teeth, forming a 

 broad band, in both jaws, also on the vomer, palatines and 

 phar^-ngeal bones. The teeth on the vomer and palatines slightly 

 longer than those on the jaws. 



16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880, 



No gill-rakers ; pharyngeal hones large. 



Supra-ocular and post-ocular ridges prominent, the former 

 curved inwards posteriorly, parallel to the post-ocular ; between 

 the two, at the posterior upper angle of the eye, are two small 

 spines or short ridges. 



Occipital ridges with three tubercles, the anterior near the post- 

 oeular ridge, the two postei'ior near together and elongated 

 transversely ; a low ridge between the first and second. 



Temporal ridge with three tubercles, the first immediately 

 exterior to the first of the occipital series, the second a longi- 

 tudinal ridge ; the third rounded, close to the second. 



A long low crest across the operculum ; just above and anterior 

 to this a shorter ridge connecting it with the temporal series ; a 

 tubercle on the supra-scapula ; no spines upon the head, except 

 two upon the posterior border of the pre-operculum. 



All the tubercles of the head and the spines of the pre-operculum, 

 covered b}' skin. 



Maxillary with a fimbriated skinu}- flap near its posterior 

 extremit}' ; lower margin of mandible set along its whole length 

 with skinny flaps, of which three pairs are especially long and 

 fimbriated on both edges, while the posterior flap is very broad. 



Lips well developed ; lower lip pendulous at sides, and to a 

 rather less extent in front, and bearing a fimbriated flap on each 

 side. 



Two pairs of similar flaps on the snout, and two over each eye. 



Gill-membranes continuous below the throat. 



Branchiostegals, 6. 



Origin of first dorsal slightly anterior to the lower pectoral 

 axil ; first two spines longest, about 2f in the length of the head, 

 fourth much shorter than the third, and a little shorter than the 

 fifth ; sixth, seventh and eighth much longer than fourth, the 

 remaining spines diminishing to the eighteenth, which is the 

 shortest. 



A tag at the end of each spine, the membrane between the two 

 parts of the first dorsal notched considerably. 



A spine at the commencement of the second dorsal, the base of 

 which is contained more than 2^ times in that of the first, the 

 rays increasing in length to the fifth, which is about ^ longer than 

 the longest spine of the first dorsal ; upper margin of second 

 dorsal, convex. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 235 



Anal longer than soft dorsal, arising opposite the last spine of 

 the first dorsal, and terminating somewhat posterior to the second, 

 Ninth to twelfth raj's slightly the longest. 



Pectorals very broad and rounded, their base oblique, the tip of 

 the longest (sixth) ray reaching to about the sixteenth dorsal 

 raj- ; rays simple, the longest a little less than one-fourth the total 

 length of the fish. 



Tentrals small, narrow, the longest (middle) ray rather more 

 than half the length of the longest pectoral ray, but not reaching 

 to the vent. 



Caudal truncate on hinder margin, rather narrow, ra3's simple. 



Yent midway between insertion of ventrals and origin of anal. 



Lateral line with a series of skinny fimbriated flaps, similar to 

 those upon the head. 



Body and head scaleless, but the former covered all over with 

 osseous papillre ; largest above the lateral line, smallest upon the 

 protuberant portion of the abdomen. 



Color, in alcohol, blotches of dark purplish-brown on a lighter 

 ground ; the blotches on the fins conspicuous, and running into 

 transverse bars on the pectorals. Abdomen, light dirtj'-brown. 



A single specimen of this interesting species was obtained by 

 Mr. W. J. Fisher, at St. Paul's, Kodiak. It is in the museum of 

 the California Academy of Sciences. 



Hemitripterus cavifrons is the western representative of H. 

 acadianiis of the Atlantic, and differs from that species in the 

 following characteristics, among others : — 



The great depression of the inter-ocular area, whence the specific 

 name ; the greater number of dorsal spines ; the shorter pectorals ; 

 the lesser depth of the posterior anal rays; the absence of hook- 

 like papillae along the lateral line, and the presence in their place 

 of fleshy slips ; and the smaller size of the bony papillae along 

 the dorsal region. 



Dimensions. 



Total length, 15.15 



Greatest depth, 4.50 



Least depth of caudal peduncle, 92 



Length of head, 4.50 



Width " 4.50 



" of mouth, from tip to tip of maxillaries, . 3.75 

 Length of upper jaw along its curve, . . . 2.75 




236 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



Axial length of snout, ..... 



Longitudinal diameter of eye, 



Interocular widtli, ...... 



Width of pectoral base, .... 



Lengtli of longest (sixth) pectoral ray, 

 "Tip of snout to origin of dorsal, axial, . 



" " " " " along top of head 

 'Length of base of spinous dorsal, 

 Height of first spine, . 

 " second spine, 



" fourth spine, 



" fifth spine, . 



•" sixth spine, . 



" eighth spine, 



■^' eighteenth spine, . 



•" spine of second dorsal, 



" longest (fifth) ray of second dorsal, 



Length of base of second dorsal, 

 Tip of lower jaw to ventrals, along abdomen, 

 " " " origin of anal, along abdomen 

 « '' " vent, .... 



Length of ventrals, . . 

 base of anal, 

 longest anal lays (9-12) 





1.25 

 .70 

 1.70 

 2:75 

 3.88 

 2.75 

 3.25 

 6.50 

 1.75 

 1.70 

 .90 

 .98 

 1.00 

 1.20 

 .'88 

 1.00 

 2.00 

 2.50 

 3.75 

 8.80 

 6.32 

 2.00 

 3.44 

 2.10 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF CATOSTOMUS (CATOSTOMUS CYPHO) 

 FROM THE COLORADO RIVER. 



BY WM. N. LOCKINGTON. 



Catostomus cypho, sp. nov. 



D. 3, 14. A. 2, T. C. M-16-1-Y. P. 18. T. 10. L. lat. 79. 



Head conical ; snout long, much depressed ; dorsal outline 

 rising in a straight line to the occipital region, where commences 

 a prominent and considerably elevated liump, which attains its 

 greatest height at a distance from the occiput about equal to the 

 length of the snout, and thence descends to the origin of the 

 dorsal. 



Along the base of the dorsal fin the dorsal outline descends 

 rapidly to about the end of the second third of the total length of 

 the fish ; caudal peduncle extremely elongated, and widening 

 considerably' toward the caudal base. 



Abdominal outline almost straiglit to the origin of the anal, 

 thence diminishing to the caudal peduncle. 



Greatest depth, at anterior pectoral axil, contained not quite 

 4^ times ; head a little more than 4 times in tlie total length ; 

 snout a little more tlian 2|, eye between 8 and 9 times in the 

 length of the head ; length of top of head not quite 2^ times in 

 the distance (in a straight line) from the tip of the snout to the 

 dorsal ; inter-ocular width equal to the length of the snout ; 

 pectoral about 1^ in length of head ; caudal peduncle about 3| in 

 the greatest depth. 



Moutli rather wide, inferior. Lower lip small, in two distinct 

 ovoid lobes, covered with low, flat-topped papilla? ; the front of 

 the dentarj- bones covered by a well-developed, round-edged, horny 

 plate. Lower lip quite distinct from the upper ; the skin of the 

 cheeks forming an obliquely ascending crease, which does not, 

 however, cover the angle of the mouth. • 



Anterior nostril horizontally sub-elliptical ; posterior large, 

 vertical, crescentic, entirely covered by its anterior flap. 



Two distinct rows of pores on the top of the head ; connected 

 on the occiput with a series running behind and below the eye 

 almost to the tip of the snout. 



Phar3Migeals arcuate, with numerous teeth, regularly' diminish- 

 ing posteriorly. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Opercular region well developed ; the distance from the posterior 

 margin of the eye to that of the operculum being, to the length of 

 the snout, about as eleven to nine. Posterior margin of operculum 

 and sub-operculum forming a continuous bold couA^ex curve. 



Pectorals triangular-ianceolate, fourth and fifth rays longest ; 

 their tips extending to beyond the middle of the pubic bones, 

 ra3'S once or twice bifurcate, the first two excepted. 



Yentrals reaching bej^ond the vent, the third rays longest, the 

 last about two-thirds as long ; all the ra^^s twice bifurcate except 

 the first. 



Dorsal well developed, fourth and fifth rays longest, and con- 

 tained about 1^ times in the greatest depth ; first three rays 

 simple, the others twice bifurcate. 



Anal considerably shorter than the dorsal, but equal in depth 

 to the height of the latter; the first two rays simple, the others 

 (except the last) twice or thrice bifurcate ; first ray about half as 

 long as the second. 



Origin of the dorsal about one-sixth nearer to the tip of the 

 snout than to the centre of the base of the caudal (measuring 

 along the axis of the body), the base of its eighth ray above the 

 anterior axil of the ventrals. 



The tips of the anal rays reach beyond the first caudal 

 accessories. 



Caudal with numerous accessory rays, the longest about half as. 

 long as the outer simple principal ray ; the other principal rays 

 three times bifurcate ; posterior margin of fin triangularly emar- 

 ginate. 



Scales C3'cloid, of variable size ; each scale with 8-16 conspicuous 

 radiating striie on its exposed portion ; ihe striae and their inter- 

 spaces crossed by numerous, much less distinct concentric striae. 

 Engaged portion of each scale with numerous diverging striae, less 

 distinct than those of the free portion. Scales along and near the 

 lateral line larger than those above and below, and increasing 

 considerably in size posteriorly, as do also those above and below, 

 so that the largest scales of the body are upon the peduncle of the 

 tail. The scales diminish much more rapidl}- in size downwards 

 than upwards, so that those of the abdominal region and behind 

 the pectoral base are by far the smallest. Scales somewhat 

 pentagonal, the length exceeding the height ; those upon the 

 caudal peduncle almost twice as long as high. 




1880J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PinLADELPHIA. 239 



Fins scaleless, as is also a small patch on the anterior part of 

 the dorsal hump. 



Lateral line deflected near its origin, then running along the 

 median line of the bod^- to the origin of the caudal. Pores 

 simple. 



Color of the preserved specimen silv£r3--gray above, light 

 straw-color or creamy on the abdominal region and under side of 

 the head ; fins light uniform slat^-gra}'. The color is produced 

 by numerous dark dots upon the scales and membrane between 

 them, but fewer upon the scales, the outlines of which are there- 

 fore quite distinct. 



The hump is supported anteriorly by a very large trapezoidal 

 inter-neural, formed of a thick central pillar witli anterior and 

 posterior aloe, the latter twice as large as the former. The upper 

 margin of the bone is highest at the point of the central pillar, 

 from which it slopes anteriorly' and posteriorly. Tlie base of the 

 central pillar is broadly expanded transverseh', oftering a double 

 articulating surface on its under side. The next inter-neural is a 

 thin flat sub-rectangular plate, while the next three are expanded 

 above, attenuated below ; the fifth bent, and smaller than the 

 fourth, the loM'er portion of which is also bent forward. Inter- 

 neurals of dorsal fin with a central ray and an anterior and 

 posterior expansion dying out at their lower fourth ; symmetrical, 

 except that supporting the first two rays. Tliis is evidently 

 formed by two inter-neural bones, united by a thin bonj' plate, 

 which forms a broad expansion in front of the first, and a narrow 

 one behind the second. 



Upon the first vertebra there is a broad articulating surface, 

 apparentl}"^ for the reception of the first inter-neural, as a thin 

 longitudinal perpendicular partition exactly fits into a notch 

 between the two articulating surfaces of that bone. Tlie trans- 

 verse processes of this vertebra are broadly expanded inferiorly, 

 and their lower edges suturally united to a pair of ver}^ large bony 

 plates of complex form, connecting tlie air-bladder with the back 

 of the skull. 



From the anterior margin of each neurapophj-sis of the next 

 nine vertebne springs an upward-directed process, which, in the 

 first of these vertebnv, is almost as long as tlie neural spine, br,t 

 which diminishes in size on each successive vertebra. 



The neural spines of the first two of these vertebriie are bifid. 




240 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



The single specimen from which the above description is taken 

 was brought from the Colorado River, at the junction of the Gila, 

 and was sent to the museum of the California Academj^ of 

 Sciences by John E. Currj^, Esq., Civil Engineer. 



It is said that the species is not uncommon in the locality from 

 which this specimen was procured, and it is much to be regretted 

 that we have onl}- this example, especially since it is greatly 

 damaged by the extraction of the large inter-neural some two 

 years ago. The air-bladder is destroyed, so that it is impossible 

 to tell whether it agrees with the other species of Gatostomus, in 

 having that organ divided into two portions. The extremities of 

 the fins are also much broken, and the shape of the body distorted. 



Dimensions 



Total length, 



Length to base of caudal. 



Greatest depth, about . 



Length of head, . 



" top of head, 



" snout, from e^'e, 



Longitudinal diameter of eye, 



Inter-ocular width, 



Depth of head, at front of eye, 



Snout, from front of uostrils, 



Tip of snout to origin of dorsal, ii 



Length of base of dorsal. 



Height of longest dorsal ray, 



Tip of snout to anterior portion of 



Length of pectoral fin, 



Tip of snout to anterior portion of 



Length of ventrals, 

 '• anal base, 



*■' longest anal ray, . 



Tip of snout to origin of anal, 



Width of caudal peduncle, . 



Length of first inter-neural, . 



Heiiiht of " '• 



a straight line 



pectoral 

 ventrals 



base 



INCHES. 



Hi 



n 

 n 



2V 



Wa 



j>_ 



16 



27 

 3 2 



2| 



1 15 



2H 



^ 3 

 1^ 



6| 



3^ 



1 5 

 T« 



29 

 32 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



P R O C E E D 1 N a S 



OP THE 



MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION OF THE ACADEMY 



OF Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



187 7-18 7 9. 



May 28, 1877. 



A New Polariscope — Mr. H. C. Lewis remarked that a cheap 

 and accurate polariscope for the measurement of the optic-axial 

 diveroence in minerals had Ions:: been a desideratum amona; min- 

 eralogists. He wished to direct attention to an instrument for this 

 purpose, lately made for him by Queen & Co., of this cit}', which 

 had proved very satisfoctory. The light was polarized b}^ reflec- 

 tion from a plate of black glass, converged upon the rotating stage 

 by two sets of adjustable lenses, and analyzed by a Nicol's prism. 

 A graduated circle of steel, having through its axis a sliding 

 forceps, is fastened at right angles to the stage. A pointer records 

 the amount of rotation of the forceps. The mineral to be examined 

 is either held in the forceps or is attached by a drop of oil to a 

 piece of thin glass which is held in the same way. Cross-hairs are 

 fixed below the eye piece, and the measurement of the divergence 

 of the optic axes is performed in the usual way. The instrument 

 was found to work admirably and could be recommended. The 

 adjustments were made quickly and the axial divergence could 

 be determined to within 30'. It is simple, absorbs but little light, 

 and gives good results even with very small fragments of minerals. 



A Garnet with Inverted Crystallization. — Mr. Lewis ex- 

 hibited a garnet which he had found in Germantown, and stated 

 that it showed a very perfect example of inverted cr^'stallization. 

 Its form was a perfect trapezohedron except that one octant was 

 depressed, its apex lying within the crystal, one-halfway towards 

 the centre. The re-entrant angles corresponded in position with 

 the trihedral edges on the opposite octant of the crystal. The 

 garnet was an isolated one found in a matrix of gneiss. Atten- 

 tion was called to the fact that such inverted cr3'stallization was 

 apparently more common in the isometric than in other S3'stems 

 of crj'stallization and comment was made upon the cause of such 

 phenomena. 



June 25, 1877. 



Change of Serpentine into Quartz. — Mr. Theodore D. Eand 

 described and presented specimens showing the change of ser- 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



pentine into quartz, very strikingly shown near a quarry of 

 serpentine rock on tiie farm of John Stacker, about a tlaird of a 

 mile N. W. of Radnor Station, P. R. R., Delaware Co., Pa. 



The outcrop of the serpentine is accompanied by a rock, locally 

 called " Ironstone," which however is a cellular quartz, generally 

 stained by oxide of iron. It occurs as loose masses in the soil, 

 generally of small size, but sometimes of over a hundred pounds 

 weight ; the cavities are frequently lined with drusy (piartz. This 

 rock is of common occurrence in connection with serpentine belts, 

 but that it has arisen from a decomposition of the serpentine, 

 has, he believed, not been observed elsewhere. On the south side of 

 Stacker's quarry a few feet below the original surface of the ground, 

 is a bed of soft serpentine much cracked ; a foot or two above, 

 these cracks are found lined with chalcedonic quartz, of paper-like 

 thinness ; above, the quartz thickens, the serpentine becomes more 

 and more decomposed, until near the surface the quartz onl3^ re- 

 mains, with the cavities empty, or filled with what appears to be 

 oxide of iron with alumina. It is an instance of pseudomorphism 

 on a large scale, the progress of which can be traced, step by 

 step, from almost unaltered serpentine to almost pure quartz. 



Well-water. — In this connection the analysis of the water of a 

 well 50 feet deep in the serpentine, about 400 hundred feet from 

 the quarry, but under the same quartz outcrop, may not be 

 xniinteresting. 



In a gallon of 70,000 grains, — mean of three analj^ses : — 



Grains, per Gall. Parts in 1,000,000. 



.5.665 80.8 



A New Locality for Siderite. — Mr. H. C. Lewis announced 

 Dunbar, Faj'ette Co., Penna., as a new locality for Siderite. It 

 there occurs in finely crj'stallized specimens in the interior of 

 nodules of amorphous Siderite. These nodules or concretions 

 are of various and often curious shapes. Doubly terminated 

 limpid quartz crystals and minute but ver}^ perfect crystals of 

 Pyrite are associated with those of Siderite, forming handsome 

 specimens. 



Magnetite Markings in Muscovite. — Mr. Lewis made some 

 remarks on the markings in the Muscovite of Brandy wine 

 Hundred, Delaware. He proved that these markings were Mag 

 netite, by exhibiting their attractability by the magnet, and said 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



that in order to exhibit this properly, the section must be 

 exceedingly thin. He stated tliat an optical examination had proved 

 that the direction of the main lines of the markings corresponded 

 with or was at right angles to that of the crystallographic axes of 

 the Muscovite. He exhibited a plate of the mica shown distinctly 

 to be a twin by the two different groupings of Magnetite markings. 

 Examination in the polariscope confirmed this structure. Thus, 

 frequently, the crystalline structure of the mica and the direction 

 of its axes may he ascertained b}' an inspection of these markings 

 alone. It appeared, therefore, that the form and direction of the 

 markings was determined, not by independent crystallization of 

 the Magnetite forming them, but in part at least by the Muscovite 

 from which it had probably been derived. These markings are, in 

 some respects, pseudomorphs after Muscovite. He thought that 

 the statement in Dana's Mineralogy (p. 150), referring to these 

 markings, that "the brandling at angles of 60° indicates com- 

 position parallel to a dodecahedral face," was misleading, implying 

 that this form was produced by an inherent property of the Mag- 

 netite, and not, as he thought now appears, by the crystalline 

 structure of the Muscovite. 



September 24, 1817. 



A New Local if y for Asholite. — Mr. Lewis stated that he had 

 found Asbolite at Flourtown, Montgomery Co., a new locality for 

 this mineral. It is found in iron ore mines as an incrustation 

 upon Psilomelane. It is of a bluish-black color, is as soft as 

 graphite, and gives a shining streak when scratched by the nail. 

 The blowpipe indicates a considerable percentage of cobalt. 



A New Locality for Fluorite. — Mr. W. W. Jefferis stated 

 that a few days since he was shown a massive specimen of Fluor- 

 6;par of a deep purple color, which was found in the limestone 

 near the village of Howellville, in Tredyffrin Township, Chester 

 County, Pa. This is the third locality of fluor in this county. 



Epidote in Molybdenite. — Mr. Lewis mentioned that while 

 examining some Mol3'bdenite from Frankford, Phila., he had 

 found plates of a transparent hard mineral, of a light greenish- 

 yellow color, somewhat resembling Wulfenite, occurring in thin 

 laA-ers and minute scales between the folife of the Molybdenite, 

 and sometimes coating it as a thin film. It was not until after a 

 careful examination that it was proved to be Epidote in an 

 unusual form and situation. 



October 22, 1877. 



A New Locality for 3Iillerite. — Mr. Theo. D. Rand announced 

 the discovery of Millerite in Dolomite, from the Soapstone quarry 

 on the Schuylkill, in Philadelphia, near the Montgomery County 

 line. It occurred in capillary crystals in cavities of the Dolomite. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



THE OPTICAL CHARACTERS OF SOME MICAS. 

 BY HENRY CARVILL LEWIS. 



For the determination of the true characters of the micas — a 

 class of minerals rapidl}" gaining in importance — a knowledge of 

 their optical characters is almost as necessarj^ as is that of their 

 chemical composition. The optical is certainly the most ready 

 method of determination. The investigation here recorded is but 

 a partial one, and it is hoped that in the future it may be extended 

 so as to include most of the American micaceous minerals. The 

 measurements have been made for the most part upon minerals 

 which have never been optically examined, and are chiefly Ameri- 

 can. A few foreign species have been introduced for comparison. 

 The micas examined are largely those in the collection of the 

 Academy. Others were either in the writer's collection or have 

 been kindly given him by friends. The source from which each 

 specimen has been obtained is noted in the tables given below. 



The polariscope used was made by Queen & Co., of this cit}', 

 and was described before this Section at its meeting last Maj-. 

 It reads to within 30'. The figures given below represent the 

 mean apparent optic-axial angular divergence for white light. As 

 the angle is somewhat different in different specimens and some- 

 times CA'en in different portions of the same plate, the figures must 

 be regarded as only approximate. In each case they represent 

 a mean of a number of separate measurements, and collectively' 

 are the result of over 1600 such measurements. 



Phlogopite. 



1. Sussex Co., N. Y. Hexagonal crystals, 3'ellow, 



transparent. (Acad. Nat. Sci.) 6°. 



2. Burgess, Oiit., Can. Clear brown. (A. N. S.) 6°45'. 



3. N. Shore of Rideau Lake, Burgess, Can. Angle 



varies in same piece. Clearbrown. (J.Willcox.) 6°-12° 



4. Hammond, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Clear 3'ellow. 



Hypei'bolas closer in the centre than thev are 

 near the edges of the crjj-stals. Crystals are 

 sometimes uniaxial in the centre and biaxial at 

 each end, while the plane of the optic axes at 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 245 



one end is at right angles to that 

 y at the other end, viz. : 



One crystal had angle at centre, 

 T^SO', angle at edge, 11°15'. 

 (A. K S.) 10^40'. 



5. Jefferson Co., N.Y. Brownish-yellow. (A. N. S.) ll°21'-12°50^ 



6. Yrooman's Lake, Jefferson Co., N. Y. Wine-j'el- 



low. (A.N. S.) 12°45'. 



7. Oxboro', Jefferson Co., N. Y. Light yellow. 



(A. X. S.) 13°12'. 



8. Ottey Lake, Burgess, C. W. Brown hexagonal 



crystals. (W. W. Jefferis). ' 13°20'. 



A crystal from the same locality (J. Willcox) 

 gave for the outer part of crystal, 13°41'; 

 centre of crystal, 11 °23'. 



9. Calumet Is., Canada. Greenish-^^ellow, transpar- 



ent. (A. N. S.) 13°20'-14°18'. 



10. New Hampshire. Reddish-brown, similar to 



Darby Biotite ; nearly uniaxial in thin plates. 13°10'-lt°. 



11. Sparta, N. J. Dark brown; by reflected light 



nearly black. 14°20'. 



12. Yrooman's Lake, Jefferson Co., N. Y. Clear 



pale 3'ellow. Some crA'stals show identical 

 phenomena with those from Hammond, St. 

 Lawrence Co. 



13. St. Denis. "Plumose mica:" brown: thick, 



nebulous hj-perbolas. 



14. "Warwick, N. Y. Dark green; cleaving into 



rhombs ; often mistaken for Biotite. 



15. Pope's Mills, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Deep 



reddish-bi'own. (W. W. Jefferis.) 



16. Yesuvius. Black by reflected light, dark red- 



dish-brown in thin plates. With icespar : 

 very opaque. (A. N. S.) 

 It. Clark's Hill, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Brown. 

 (W. W. Jefferis.) 



18. Kennett Square, Del. Co., Pa. Brown ; in lime- 



stone. 



19. Edwards, N.Y. Pearly white. (W.W. Jefferis). 



20. Rossie, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Yellowish- 



brown. (A.N. S.) 15=52'. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



21. S. Burgess, Can. Large brown crystal, purple 



on edges. (A. N. S.) 16°38'. 



22. Clark's Hill, near Rossie, N. Y. Brownish- 



yellow. (A. N.S.) 16°45'. 



23. Clark's Mills, N. Y. Light brown, transparent : 



(probably identical with Nos. IT, 20, 22). 



(A. N. s.) n°. 



24. Canada. Asteriated Phlogopite. 19°. 



25. S. Burgess. Clear yellow-brown. (A. N. S.) 19°. 



26. Burgess, C. W. Yellowish-brown crystals, with 



secondary cleavage along diagonal. (W. W. 

 Jefferis). 20°. 



2*1. Rossie, N. Y. Black by reflected, reddish- 

 brown by transmitted light. (A. N. S.) 21°13^ 



28. Vesuvius. Black, crumbling, very opaque, 



mixed with black hornblende. (A. N. S.) 21°20'±. 



29. Burgess, C. W. Asteriated, not transparent, 



silvery-brown. (A. N. S.) 21°35'±. 



30. Rossie, N. Y. Black by reflected, dark brown 



by transmitted light. Contains apatite. (A. 



X. S.) 22°. 



31. Chester Co., Pa. Feebly asteriated; locality 



wrong ? ; probably from Rossie, N. Y. (A. 



N. S.) 23°15'. 



32. Alamutchie,X. J. Clear reddish-brown. (Frankl. 



Inst.) 30°5'. 



33. Van Arsdale's Quarry, Bucks Co., Pa. Red- 



brown ; with graphite, etc. " 34°. 



Biotite. 



1. Easton, Pa. White, silver mica. 2°±:. 



2. Antwerp, N. Y. Greenish-white. 0°. 



3. Culsagee, N. C. White. 0°. 



4. Vesuvius. White. 0°. 



5. Darby, Del. Co., Pa. Deep red. 0°. 



6. Delaware Co., Pa. Crystal in muscovite ; black 



by reflected, brownish-red by transmitted light. 5°±. 



7. Scotland. Brown. 0°. 



8. Rossie, N. Y. Brown. 

 Probably several of these Biotites have an angle of l°-2°. 



o 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



Lepidomelane. 



Arendal, Norway. Black; uniaxial. 

 Frankford, Phila. Black; uniaxial. 



Muscomte. 



1. Brunswick, Me. Briglit green scales. (A. N. S.) 



2. Pennsbury, Pa. (A. N. S.) 



3. Yesuvius. With adularia. (A. N. S.) 



4. Button's Mills, Del. Co., Pa, (J. M. Cardeza.) 



5. St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Greenish-white, plu- 



mose radiated crystals, showing Airy's spirals. 

 (A. N. S.) 



6. Darby, Phila., Pa. Small scales in gneiss. 



7. Siberia. (A. N. S.) 



8. Germantown, Phila. Smokj- brown, clear crystals. 



9. Plainfield, Conn, Margarodite. Contains 5 p. c. 



of water. 



10. Poorhouse, Del. Co., Pa. 



11. Germantown, Pa. 



12. Germantown, Pa. Containing enclosed crystals 



of a black, uniaxial mica. 64°30'. 



13. Frankford, Pa. In hornblende rock : in calcite, 



Avith fluorite and epidote. (T. D. Rand). 64°50'. 



14. Falls of Schuylkill, Phila. In hornblende rock. " 65°. 



15. Cumberland, England. "Nacrite." (A. N. S.) 65°. 



16. Goyaz, Brazil. (A. N. S.) 65°50'. 



17. Brandywine Hundred, Del. Containing mag- 



netite markings. 65°-67°30'. 



After heating until it whitens, it has an 

 angle of 49°. 



18. Litchfield, Me. (A. N. S.) 



19. Portland, Conn. 



20. Southern Colorado. Identical with mica of 



Pennsbur}', Pa., and Brandywine Hundred, 

 Del., having magnetite markings, 



21. Grafton, N. H. 



22. Chandler's Hollow, Del. (J. M. Cardeza.) 



23. Black Hills, Wyoming. (A. N. S.) 



24. Zinnwald, Bohemia. (A. N. S.) 



25. Buncombe Co., N. C. (A. N. S.) 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



26. Germantown, Pa. Large silvery plates. 



27. Dixon's Quarry, Del. Pale green. 



28. Connecticut. Green scales. (A. !N^. S.) 



29. Georgetown, Col. 



30. Upland, Del. Co., Pa. Pale green. (.J. M. 



Cardeza.) 



31. Germantown, Pa. Pale green. 



32. Chester Co., Pa. (A. N. S.) 



33. Westchester Co., N. Y. 



34. Fabyans, White Mountains, N. H. 



35. Glacier of the Aar, Switz. (A. N. S.) 



36. Trumbull, Conn. Margarodite. 



37. Paris, Me. Rose-color. (A. ]S^. S.) 

 Where not otherwise indicated, the above muscovites are of a 



clear j^ellowish-brown tint. 



Lepidolite. 



1. Altenberg, Saxony. With Pycnite ; sometimes 



distorted. (A. N. S.) 31°. 



2. Zinnwald, Bohemia. Often very irregular. On 



different parts of the same piece the angle 



varies from 34°30' to 51°30'. (A. N. S.) 49°30' 



3. Paris, Me. Much distorted ; several axes. (A. 



N. S.) 60°±:. 



4. Middletown, Conn. 66°. 



Talc. 



1. Lafayette, above Manayunk, Pa. Exfoliating : 



fan-shaped cr3^stals : images much distorted. 12°40'. 



2. Lafayette, Pa. Clear. 15°. 



3. Lafayette, Pa. Foliated talc ; distorted images. 15°. 



4. Harford Co., Md. White. 15°. 



5. Shetland Is. Clear pale green, sometimes nearly 



uniaxial. • 17°. 



Pyrophyllite. 

 Westana, Sweden. 106°51'. 



Serpentine. 



Chrysotile from Chester Co., Pa., shows strong double refraction 

 when the fibres make an angle of 45° with the plane of polariza- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



tiou of the instrument. Bissectrix apparently parallel to the 

 fibres, Probabljr orthorhombic. Common serpentine and Wil- 

 liamsite show no double refraction. 



Damourite. 



1. Culsagee, N. C. In scales : analyzed by Koenig. 



(F. A. Genth.) 66°lt'±. 



2. Unionville, Pa. " Emerylite : " irregular h3-per- 



bolas. (A. X.S.) 69°35'±:. 



3. Unionville, Pa. On corundum. 72°. 



4. Unionville, Pa. " Corundellite." (J. M. Car- 



deza.) 12°. 



5. Horsjoberg, Sweden. (T. D. Rand.) 72°25'. 



6. Chester Co., Pa. " Margarite : " irregular, show- 



ing sometimes four hyperbolas. (A. N. S.) T2°30'. 



1. Haywood, N. C. "Altered from corundum." (F. 



A. Genth ) 74°. 



8. Unionville, Pa. Analyzed by Sharpless. (F. A. 



Genth.) U°10'. 



9. Unionville, Pa. Analyzed by Koenig. (F. A. 



Genth.) 74°15'. 



10. Newtown, Conn. With Cyanite. 74°24^ 



11. Newlin, Chester Co. "Margarite." (A. X. S.) 75°50'. 



It is evident that the minerals labelled Emerylite, Corundellite, 

 Margarite, etc., are all Damourite. 



Euphyllite. 



.1. Chester Co., Pa. (A. N. S.) 37°-40°. 



2. Unionville, Pa. "Original." (F. A. Genth.) 36°30'. 



A thicker piece in which the h^-perbolas were very dim, had an 

 angle of 45°±. 



This result is interesting, as the optical angle given by Silliman 



is 71°. 



Cookeite. 



Paris, Me. In small scales. 42°40'. 



17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Vermiculite. 



1. E. ISTottingham , Chestei* Co., Pa. Hallite. In 



green crystals : uniaxial. 0°. 



2. Cecil Co., McL, Magnesia Quarry. Hallite. Con- 



tains enclosed arrow-shaped crystals like Hal- 

 lite : uniaxial. 0°. 



3. Chester Co., Pa., Brown's Quany. Uniaxial. 



(T.D.Rand.) .0°. 



4. Macon Co., N. C. Maeonite. In brown scales ; 



uniaxial or with a divergence of 1°±. (F. 



A. Genth.) 1°±. 



0. MineralHill,Del. Co., Pa. Pale green. (A.N. S.) 19°. 



6. Lenni, Del. Co., Pa. Brown and green ; some- 

 times a very small optic angle occurs. 19°-20°. 



*7. Culsagee, N. C. Culsageeite. Yellowish-brown: 

 variable angle. Sometimes the angle varies 

 as different portions of the same piece are 

 moved into the field. One piece gave 9°, 

 and another was nearly uniaxial. The angle 

 given is the most constant one. 20° dz. 



8. West Chester, Pa. Jefferisite. Variable angle : 



a specimen gave at one part 16°30', and at 

 another 25°, the latter being the most distinct ; 

 a very tliin piece gave 11°30', and a thicker 

 piece 2t°20'. Apparentl}^ the optic-angle in- 

 creases with the thickness of the plate. Some 

 good specimens gave 22°, 25°, and 28°; mean 

 angle probabl}^ 26°±:. 



9. Lafayette Soapstone Quarry, Montgomery Co., 



Pa. Brown scales in chlorite slate : constant 



angle 32°-36°30' ; mean, 34° ±. 



10. Germantown, Phila. Brown plates in hornblende 

 rock. Optic-angle constant w^ithin 31°20'- 

 39°30' ; the most constant angle is 37°±:. 



It is very probable that, as suggested by Prof. Cooke, the varia- 

 tion in the optic-angle of the Yermiculites is caused by twinning 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Ripidolite. 



1. Patterson's Quarry, Xewliu Township, Chester 



Co., Pa. Irregular green plates; with corun- 

 dum ; inclination of bissectrix to normal to 

 cleavage plane, 5^30': optic-axial divergence 

 variable on the same plate on account of twin- 

 ning, varying from 50° to 59°30'. (T. D. 

 Rand.) Generally as given. 59°30'. 



2. West Chester, Pa. Green plates ; inclination of 



bissectrix 10° : axial divergence, 78°3'0'. 



3. Brinton's Quarrj', Chester Co., Pa. Fine clear 



green plates ; inclination of bissectrix, 12°30'. 



f) y> V. Axial divergence, 82°. 



4. Dudleyville, Ala. Pale rose-color; on chromite. 



Inclination of bissectrix, 1G°. o > v. (F. 



A. Genth). 94° 15'. 



In all of these, double refraction is feeble compared with that of 



Muscovite. It is observed that the inclination of the bissectrix 



to the normal to the cleavage plane increases with the divergence 



of the optic axes. 



Prochlorite. 



Brewster, X. Y., Tillj- Foster Mine. Uniaxial. 0°. 



Margarite. 



1. Cullakanee, N. C. White, "altered from corun- 



dum." Irregular figures. (F. A. Genth.) 110°±. 



2. Chester, Mass. Rose-color, with corundum ; 



irregular, in some places showing four hj^per- 



bolas; one piece gave 89°30'. 1I2°45'. 



3. Dudle3'ville, Ala. White, clear; inclination of 



bissectrix, 1°±. (F. A. Genth). 122°15'. 



4. Cullakanee, X. C. White, " altered from Zoisite." 



Inclination of bissectrix to normal to cleavage 

 plane, 2°ih. (F. A. Genth.) 124°. 



The large optic-axial divergence of Margarite readily distin- 

 guishes it from Damourite and other micas which resemble it. If 

 further observations agree in showing that the bissectrix is inclined 

 to the normal to the cleavage plane, it will show that Margarite 

 is Monoclinic and not Orthorhombic as has been supposed. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



October 22, 1871. 



A New Locality for Analcite — Dr. A. E. Foote called atten- 

 tion to the fact that Analcite had been found at Falls of Schuyl- 

 kill, — a new locality for that mineral. 



November 26, 1877. 



On the Measurement of Plave Angles. — Mr. Lewis described a 

 simple and quick way of measuring plane angles in minerals. It 

 was a method which he had found very useful in the measurement 

 of all edge angles, of cleavage and striatiou angles, the angles 

 of markings and dendrites in mica, and of other flat angles to 

 which a goniometer could not conveniently be applied. 



A paper protractor was constructed, the radii of which, distant 

 each from each 1°, were continued from the circumference 

 to the centre. Horizontal lines, about twenty in number, are 

 drawn across these, parallel to the radius 0° and at right angles 

 to the radius 90°. These lines being parallel, the angles formed 

 by the intersection of any radius with each of them are equal. In 

 order to measure the angle of a crystal, it is laid on the protractor, 

 one of its edges is made parallel to a horizontal line, and then the 

 crystal is slid along that line until the other edge, forming with 

 the first the angle to be measured, becomes parallel to one of the 

 intersecting radii. The desired angle is now read oflT on the cir- 

 cumference of the protractor. Angles approaching 90° are read 

 on one of the upper horizontal lines, while those of less amplitude 

 are read correspondingly farther down. A magnifying lens is 

 conveniently used to determine the exact coincidence of the edges 

 of the ciystal with the lines of the protractor. Very large crys- 

 tals as well as crj'stals as small as a millimetre in diameter can be 

 measured in this way. 



It was found that this method of measurement was very conve- 

 nient, and, if the protractor had been carefully made, was exact to 

 within 30' ; while it applied to those cases in which neither the 

 reflective nor the hand goniometer could be used. 



December 17, 1877. 



On an Exfoliating Talc. — Mr. Henry Carvill Lewis described 

 a variety of talc, occurring at the soapstone quarry above Mana- 

 yunk, which is in some respects new. It occurs in fan-like crystals 

 in Dolomite, and is much more similar to Pyrophyllite than to 

 common talc. It moreover differs from common talc by exfoliat- 

 ing when held in the flame of a candle or Bunsen bui'ner, and 

 was, therefore, at first mistaken for Pyrophyllite. In the closed 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



tube it exfoliates and gives off water. In optical characters 

 it is identical with common talc, having been found to have an 

 axial divergence of about 12°40', frequently distorted. . It is 

 marked with striations or cleavage planes crossing at angles of 60° 

 and 120°. In this respect it is like Jettei'isite or Culsageeite, 

 while in common talc such markings are rarely visible, and never 

 distinct. It has the chemical composition of talc, except that the 

 percentage of water is larger than usual, being 7-02 per centum. 

 None of this water is hygroscopic, as its weight remains constant 

 in a desiccator over sulphuric acid. 



The water of two other talcs from the same localit}^ was deter- 

 mined. A massive talc whicli does not exfoliate in the Bunsen 

 burner flame or in the platinum crucible, but does so at the point 

 of the blowpipe flame, contains 4.23 per centum of water. 



A foliated talc which is caused to exfoliate onlv very slightly 

 even in the blowpipe flame, contained 2.84 per centum of water, 

 and this was driven oS only at an extremel}'' high and long 

 continued heat. 



In these three talcs, therefore, we have the interesting results : 



1. That there is a direct ratio between the amount of combined 

 water and the amount of exfoliation. 



2. That there is a direct ratio between the tenacity with which 

 the water is held and the temperature at which exfoliation occurs. 



It is thought that perhaps these results may have a bearing in 

 an explanation of the propei'ties of the various Yermiculites. 



January 28, 1878. 



Tin in Nor^fh Carolina. — Mr. Lewis exhibited a small piece 

 of tin ore said to have been found in Surry Co., N. C, and which 

 had been handed to him for examination. It was a soft, light 

 earth}' mass of a brown color, crumbling when pres^^ed, which, 

 when held in a candle flame, became covered with small globules 

 of pure tin. The earthy base was a silicate of alumina, iron, and 

 lime, and was partially' soluble in acid. The tin was reduced b}^ 

 ver}^ gentle heat, for less than that required to reduce Cassiterite. 

 It was suggested that the tin existed in it either native or as an 

 ochre or hydrous oxide. No sulphides were present. It was 

 questioned whether the specimen exhibited was a genuine native 

 product. 



A New Locality for Gypxum. — Mr. Theo. D. Rand announced 

 his discovery of gypsum, as an eftlorescence upon gneiss, at a 

 quarry near Darby, Pa. 




254 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



ON SIDEEOPHYLLITE— A NEW MINERAL. 

 BY HENRY CARVILL LEWIS. 



A.mong other interesting minerals which are found in the neigh- 

 borhood of Pike's Peak, Colorado, is a hard black mica, occurring 

 sometimes in large and fine crj'Stals, which the writer has been 

 unable to identify with any known species. 



It is monoclinic, and has an eminent micaceous basal cleavage. 

 It has the following characters : 



Hardness, 3.2. Specific gravit}^, 3.1. Lustre, bright micaceous. 

 Color, black b}- reflected light, and fine chrome-green by trans- 

 mitted light. Opaque except in very thin pieces. Streak, pale 

 green. Laminae very brittle. Biaxial ; optic-axial divergence 10° ±. 



In its composition it appears to be an iron-alumina mica. The 

 analysis here given is a mean of two made b}^ the writer. In one 

 the mineral was fused with sodic carbonate before solution, and in 

 the other it was dissolved in hydrochloric acid. The anal3'ses 

 were performed in the usual way. Iron was estimated by solution 

 in sulphuric acid in a closed flask, and subsequent titration. The 

 percentage of alkalies was kindly determined by Mr. F. A. Genth, 

 Jr. The percentage of water is that given off on moderate igni- 

 tion. On strong ignition the mineral loses over 3 per centum of 

 its weight, some of the alkalies being driven off. 



ratio. 



SiO, 



A 1,0s 



Fe,0:, 



PeO 



MnO 



MgO 



CaO 



Na.,0 



Li,0 



K.,0 



H,0 



36.68 



20.41 



1.55 



25.50 



2.10 



1.14 



.81 



1.09 



.37 



9.20 



1.01 



2.44 

 1.19 I 



.06 j 



.n 



.06 

 .06 

 .03 

 .03 

 .02 

 .20 

 .11 



2.44 

 1.25 



1.22 



2.00 

 1.02 



1.00 



This gives R 



99.86 

 R : Si = 1 



Silica 1 

 basic. 



1:2, and for the ratio of bases to 

 1. It is therefore a Unisilicate in which the water is 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



It has the formula 

 and the symbol 



Kg, Tl , OJ3, U,.>. 



Before the blowpipe it fuses with intumescence at about 2.5 to 

 a black glass. It sometimes gives a red lithia color to the flame. 

 It is soluble in hydrochloric and sulphuric acids, with separation 

 of silica. In its pyrognostic properties it is thus similar to Annite, 

 although Annite is less fusible. Its oxj^gen ratio is that of Biotite, 

 but the absence of magnesia, and its physical and optical proper- 

 ties, distinguish it from that mineral. It occurs in good crystals 

 back of Pike's Peak, Colorado. Amazon-stone and Astrophyllite 

 occur in the vicinity. The material upon which this investigation 

 has been made was obtained from Dr. A. E. Foote, of this city. 



The name of Siderophyllite {(Tidrfpoq ifolkov) has been given in 

 allusion to the large percentage of iron which it contains. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



February 28, 1818. 



On Sterlingite and Damourite. — Mr. H. C. Lewis stated that 

 an optical examination of a number of American damourites had 

 shown that they all had a large optic-axial divergence. This angle 

 was generality 72°-H°. It is an angle somewhat larger than that 

 of niuscovite, and is remarkabl}^ constant in different specimens. 

 On the other hand, the original damourite of Delesse has, accord- 

 ing to Descloiseaux, an optic-axial divergence of only 10°-12°. 

 No such angle has been found in any of the American damourites. 

 As it has been shown that damourite (" h^'dro-mica ") is an im- 

 l)ortant element in our rocks, and is of wide distribution and 

 frequent occurrence, it is essential that its characters should be 

 well known. 



The damourite of Sterling, Mass., conforming precisel}', both as 

 to composition and structure, with the t^- pe of American damourite, 

 and which Prof. Cooke has shown to have an optic-axial divergence 

 of 70° ±:, has been named by Inm, Sterlingite. This distinctive 

 name was given solely on account of its larger optic angle. But 

 it appears that this large angle is characteristic of all American 

 damourites, and probably of many European ones.^ It therefore 

 follows either that all of our damourites should be called Sterlingite, 

 or that the name should be dropped ; there would otherwise be 

 confusion. Notwithstanding the exceptional optical character of 

 the mineral examined by Descloiseaux, it is thought that identity 

 of chemical composition and of physical properties is sufficient 

 reason for retaining the original name of Damourite. 



March 25, 1878. 



Vanadium in Philadelphia Bocks. — Mr. Lewis said that he had 

 discovered the presence of Vanadium in hornblendic gneiss near 

 Wayne Station, Germantown. The presence of sphene in that 

 rock suggested the search for vanadium, recent researches having 

 shown that this element frequently accompanies titanium. The 

 following method was employed for its detection. The pul- 

 verized rock was slowlj' heated in a crucible with sodic carbonate 

 and sulphur. After partial fusion the mass was digested in warm 

 water and the filtrate acidified. The precipitate was washed, ignited, 

 and fused with sodic carbonate and sodic nitrate. It was now 

 digested in water, filtered, the filtrate concentrated, and solid 

 ammonic chloride added. A precipitate fell, which was found 

 by blowpipe and other tests to contain pure vanadium. An 

 exfoliating hydrous mica occurred at this locality, resulting 



^ V. " The optical characters of some Micas :" by 11. C. Lewis, Proc. 

 Min. and Geol. Section, October 22, 1877. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25Y 



perhaps from the alteration of hornblende, and which was believed 

 to be a new species, in which there was .38 i^er centum of oxide of 

 vanadium- 



A New Locatity for Epsomite. — Mr. Lewis reported having 

 found Epsomite in Sideling Hill Tunnel, E. Broad Top R. R., 

 Huntington Co., Pa. It there occurs in small, colorless, acicular 

 ciTstals in an olive-colored shale in the lower part of the Vesper- 

 tine formation (No. X). 




258 proceedings of the academy of [1880. 



November 25, 1818. 



the surface geology of philadelphia and vicinity. 



by henry carvill lewis. 



At intervals during the past year the writer has been devoting 

 some attention to the gravels and clays of our city, and although 

 the work as yet is only preliminary, and is still in progress, it is 

 thought that a sketch of what has been done ma}^ serve to show 

 what an interesting field is open for more thorough investigation. 

 A large number of localities have been examined and many sec- 

 tions have been made, but it is proposed at present merely to 

 summarize the facts observed. 



The Upland Terrace. — 1. A traA'eller going from the city upon 

 the Germantown Railroad will notice in the cuttings for new 

 streets between Tenth and Broad Streets, and in the railroad cut 

 at New York Junction, numerous exposures of red or yellow 

 gravel, often overlaid by clay. The brickyards in the vicinity of 

 Nicetown expose large beds of brick-clay containing occasional 

 well-rounded boulders and pebbles. The land so far has been 

 comparatively level, and no rocks have been seen. Just before 

 reaching Wayne Station, rocks rise upon both sides of the road, 

 the clay and gravel disappear, and a rolling wooded country is 

 entered. A thin covering of light micaceous soil containing no 

 pebbles or boulders covers the gneissic rocks from here to Chest- 

 nut Hill. There is a great contrast between the two regions. 



2. On the Pennsylvania Railroad it will be noticed that, soon 

 after leaving the depot, gravel covers the rocks along the Schuyl- 

 kill, and as the railroad turns back from the river, a plateau of 

 clay follows. The Centennial grounds lie upon this clay, and 

 boulders are frequent. Upon reaching Fift^^-seventh Street, op- 

 posite Belmont and George's Hill, the hill is entered by a cut, the 

 rocks come to the surface, and the drift is no more seen. 



3. Again, on the North Pennsylvania Railroad gravels first 

 appear, then, on higher ground, clay, and soon after passing Green 

 Lane Station, the rocky uplands, free from drift. 



4. So, too, on the West Chester Railroad, gravels and clays 

 cover the ground up to the base of the hill on which Swarthmore 

 College stands. 



5. On the otlier hand, the New York division of the Pennsyl- 

 vania Railroad and the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPinA. 259 



Railroad, which run parallel with the Delaware River, do not 

 rise out of the region of drift. 



Now, connecting by a line the four points mentioned, it will 

 be found to represent a long straight hill 200 feet or more in 

 height, having a northeast and southwest trend, pai'allel to the 

 river, and lying at a mean distance from it of about four miles. 

 We have traced it from Bucks County, thi'ough Philadelphia and 

 Delaware Counties, into the State of Delaware, and find that it 

 uniformly defines the western boundarj^ of the drift. This hill is 

 easily recognized where uncrossed by creeks, being remarkably 

 straight and of uniform height. It forms the limit of tidewater, 

 and is recognized where it crosses streams by the occurrence of 

 rapids or falls. Being the first hill of importance west of the 

 Delaware, it often commands a fine view and is a favorite site for 

 residences. The geographical position of this ancient terrace 

 may be more exactly defined in the vicinity of Philadelphia, as 

 the hill which crosses Second Street Pike near Foxchase, and 

 crossing Tacony Creek farther south, runs nearly parallel with 

 it as far as Crescentville ; which crosses Green Lane and New 

 Second Street road near the place of Mr. J. L. Fisher ; crosses the 

 North Pennsylvania Railroad above Olney road, and the York 

 road below the Jewish Hospital ; which crosses Germantown 

 Avenue at the railroad bridge (being here called Negley's Hill), 

 and running along the railroad to beyond Wayne Station, passes 

 back of the Germantown Cricket Ground, past Old Oaks Cemetery 

 to Falls of Schuylkill. Thence, passing Chamouni, Belmont, and 

 Geoi-ge's Hill, it crosses the Pennsjdvania Railroad near Heston- 

 ville, and Haverford Road at Haddington ; passes back of the 

 Burd Orphan Asjdum into Delaware County, and runs north of 

 Kelleyville, Clifton and Morton to Swarthmore College, and 

 thence past Village Green into Delaware. 



This hill, which is approximately parallel not only to the river, 

 but also to the shore of the Atlantic Ocean and to the line of 

 strike of the Cretaceous formations of New Jerse}^ forms, as we 

 have seen, the main dividing line between the ancient and the 

 modern formations. 



We shall call it for convenience the Upland Terrace. The strike 

 of the gneiss forming it corresponds closely with the trend of the 

 terrace itself. A boulder-bearing clay rests upon its southeastern 

 slope at a uniform elevation of 150-170 feet above mean ocean- 

 level. While it is true that, as will appear hereafter, there are 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



patches of an ancient gravel on high points back of it, the Upland 

 Terrace nevertheless remains as the most important geological 

 feature in sontlieastern Pennsylvania. 



Between the Upland Terrace and the Delaware, claj^s and gravels 

 cover the rocks in a continuous sheet except where eroded away 

 in the neigliborhood of streams. The amount of tlieir erosion is 

 in some respects a measure of the age of the surface formations. 

 It has been noticed that these foi'mations in the vicinit}' of Phila- 

 delphia have undergone very different amounts of erosion, the 

 amount of such erosion increasing as we recede from the Delaware ; 

 and this fact is regarded as offering evidence that the deposits are 

 of different ages ; those lying farthest from the river and highest 

 in elcA^ation being the most ancient, and those which are close to 

 the river, which have undergone but little erosion, being the most 

 modern of our surface formations. Examples of erosion of the 

 Philadelphia gravel may be well seen on the Philadelphia and 

 West Chester Railroad which crosses a number of creeks and runs 

 nearlj'' parallel to the terrace for several miles. As each creek is 

 approached the drift ' disappears and rocks come to the surface. 

 So on the Schuylkill, no gravel is seen on the river drive in the 

 East Park, but upon going back from the river and rising 100 feet 

 above it, as far as the East Park Reservoir, gravel appears abun- 

 dantly. Yet on the same riA^er, nearer the Delaware, a newer 

 gravel, made of different materials, not only forms its banks but 

 underlies it. 



Recent Alluvium. — The most recent of all the surface deposits 

 is the stiff bluish clay which covers the low ground in the southern 

 part of the city. The Richmond meadows and the flats of Moya- 

 mensing, Greenwich and Tinicum are covered by this deposit. It 

 is bounded by a low terrace which may be called " The Floodplain 

 Terrace.'''' This terrace, up to which the river often comes in 

 times of flood, crosses South Broad Street diagonall}^ below Moya- 

 mensing Avenue, and crossing the Delaware extension of the 

 Pennsylvania Railroad near Penrose Ferry Road, winds around 

 Point Breeze Park back towards the Gas Works, and passing 

 below Suffolk Park crosses into Delaware Count3\ This terrace 

 is about ten feet above mean tide. It is the lowest and newest of 

 all the terraces and is formed of the next older formation, the 

 " River gravel." The mud or clay lying between this terrace and 



' The term "drift" here includes all superficial formations of whatever age. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



the river is too stiff to 1)6 useful for brickmaking. Blackened 

 fragments of twigs, roots and leaves are frequent in it, and it is 

 said that trunks of the white cedar abound in it in some places. 

 There is here an indication that these beds are sinking and that, 

 as on the Atlantic coast, the water is encroaching. Frequently 

 a good peat covers the clay. 



The River Gravel. — Forming the Floodplain Terrace and lying 

 back of it, is a light sand and gravel free from claj', which may 

 be designated the " River Gravel," since it formed the ancient river 

 bed. It is composed of a light micaceous sand made from the 

 wear of gneissic rocks, ovcrl3'ing a clean, loose gravel, whose peb- 

 bles are composed of the rocks which form the river bottom farther 

 north. The pebbles are generalh' flattened and are composed of 

 gneiss, Triassic red shale, Triassic argillite, etc. It is of a gray 

 color, white quartz pebbles being comparatively^ scarce. It under- 

 lies the river to a great depth and forms islands in it. Frequently 

 large boulders lie upon the river gravel. Bridesburg and the 

 Lazaretto are built upon it. The sand is used for building pur- 

 poses. It is bounded by the " i?u-e?- Gravel Terrace," a terrace 

 rising some twenty feet above mean tide, and which is capped by 

 the red gravel and brick-clay about to be described, while rocks 

 are frequently exposed at its base. The Chester Branch of the 

 Reading Railroad lies below this terrace, and the present line of 

 the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad is above it. 



The Bed Gravel and Brick-Clays.— T\\q built-up portion of the 

 city stands upon an extensive deposit of brick-clay and gravel, 

 sections of which are exposed in ever}' cutting. The brick-clay 

 invariably overlies the gravel, and will therefore be first described. 

 By far the finest exposures of brick-clay are those on either side 

 of Long Lane, in the "Neck." The clay here is ver}" compact, 

 free from sand and gravel, and is often 15 feet or more in depth. 

 Loam lies above it, and is mixed with it for brick-making. Well- 

 rounded boulders of Potsdam, Medina, Trias, etc., are frequent. 

 The whole lies upon some 20 feet of stratified gravel. It is a 

 much finer and deeper clay than that of the northern part of the 

 city, as at Nicetown. It is interesting to note that while the clay 

 which is farthest from the Upland Terrace and lowest in elevation 

 is purest and deepest, on the other hand that near the terrace 

 and more than 100 feet above the river is both shallow and sand3\ 

 It suggests that the former was deposited in deep water and the 

 latter near the shore. At the base of the terrace the clay is but 




262 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



two or three feet deep. The boulders of the Nicetown clay are 

 similar to those of the Neck clay, except in the fact that in the 

 latter there are numerous rounded and sharp fragments of triassic 

 red shale, while in the former boulders of that material are very 

 scarce. The boulders of both clays are invariably derived from a 

 northern source, ^o shells or organic remains have as 3'et been 

 noticed in this formation. 



Beneath the clay, and often unconformable with it, is the Phila- 

 delphia red gravel. It is a claye^'^ gravel which packs well and is 

 much used on roads, and whose red color is caused by the ferru- 

 ginous clay in which the pebbles are imbedded. The pebbles are 

 composed of all kinds of rock and are not flattened as are those in 

 the river gravel. The predominant material is white quartz, but 

 pebbles of all other materials, as conglomerate, sandstone, fossil- 

 iferous hornstone, flint, red shale, etc., are numerous. Stratifica- 

 tion is observed in almost every section exposed. Good sections 

 of gravel are seen near the University of Pennsylvania. It has 

 here an elevation of about 50 feet, and comes to the surface of the 

 ground with but a very slight covering of clay. The gravel is 

 here over 15 feet deep, and as it is in some respects a typical 

 exposure, a section is herewith presented. 

 Ft. Fig. 1. 



10 



1 



5 



3 

 1 



+ 



BRICK-CLAY. 



RED GRAVEL. 



BLACK GRAVEL. 



YELLOW GRAVEL. 



MICACEOUS SAND. 



BOULDERS. 



DECOMPOSED GNEISS. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2G3 



It will be noticed, in the first place, that the clay lies in the 

 form of crests and hollows upon the gravel. This is almost inva- 

 riablj'^ the case. Beautiful examples of wave motion may be seen 

 at Twenty-eighth Street and Columbia Avenue, at Tenth and 

 Tioga, at Fifteenth and Clearfield Streets, and in Fairmount Park. 

 In each of these we have apparently the action of a rushing flood 

 of water upon the gravel. Often the clay lies in a kind of pot-hole 

 in the gravel, and a concentric structure of clay and pebbles can 

 be seen. The following section, at Twent3'-eighth Street and 

 Columbia Avenue, shows six well-marked waves of gravel and 

 clay, the clay always filling the hollows between the crests of 

 gravel. 



Fig. 2. 



s N 



The approximate dimensions of the weaves are given in the 

 diagram. Along the line of contact between clay and gravel there 

 are alternate streaks of fine and coarse gravel. 



A ver}^ beautiful example of water action is exposed at Fifteenth 

 and Clearfield Streets, in a cut about 100 feet in length (Fig. 3). 



The second point to be noticed in the section near the Univer- 

 sity is the stratification of the gravel, and its division into layers 

 of three diflTerent colors, — red, black and yellow. It is instructive 

 to note that this division is by no means a local one, but exists 

 along a line of about equal elevation (60 to 80 feet above ocean level), 

 in widely separated parts of the city. While the colors are of 

 course due simply to different states of oxidation of the iron, the 

 fact that the}^ mark continuous deposits through long distances, 

 indicates a uniformity in the condition of deposition which could 

 be due only to the presence of a large bodj^ of water. 



In the third place, the section (Fig. 1) shows the important fact 

 that the gravel rests, not upon a hard floor of rock, as is usual with 

 the drift in more northern States, butupon a completely decomposed 

 gneiss. This is universall}' the case in every section examined in 

 the vicinity of Philadelphia. In no case does the gravel rest upon 




264 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



unaltered rock, except possibly in the 

 vicinity of streams where the water has 

 eroded away the soft rock. In such posi- 

 tions, however, the gravel also is usually 

 eroded, except in the case of the " River 

 gravel " proper. It will be observed that 

 a sharp stratified micaceous sand, made up 

 of the materials of the decomposed gneiss, 

 and often showing " flow and plunge " 

 structure, lies below the gravel. In the 

 section given, a well-rounded boulder of a 

 lower Silurian sandstone is seen partially 

 imbedded in the decomposed gneiss. This 

 fact offers two interesting deductions : — 



(1.) That the gneiss was decomposed 

 before the deposition of the gravel. 



(2.) That water, not ice, was the agent 

 of such deposition. 



(1.) As additional evidence in support 

 of the first deduction, it has been observed 

 in several sections that portions of the de- 

 composed gneiss have been taken up and 

 interstratified in horizontal layers, either 

 with the gneissic sand, or with the gravel 

 itself That the steeply-dipping decom- 

 posed gneiss should be thus re-stratified, as 

 though by a flood, and that, on the other 

 hand, no such phenomena are ever observed 

 in undoubted glaciated regions, can only be 

 explained upon the assumption that the 

 gneiss was decomposed before the Glacial 

 epoch. That such decomposition took 

 place in a j^et earlier geological age, will be 

 indicated below under a description of the 

 " Bryn Mawr gravel." 



(2.) Absence of a glacier in this region 

 is indicated by the wave-like junction of 

 gravel and clay, by the stratification of the 

 gravel, and by the presence of decomposed 

 gneiss. No polished surfaces of rock have 



Fig. 3. 



1+ 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



ever been observed in this region, although the occasional slicken- 

 sides upon the gneiss in some quarries has been mistaken for 

 glacial strite. Frequently the lower yellow gravel is replaced by 

 a 3-ellow sand more or less fine, which is used for building purposes ; 

 and in this there are often good examples both of oblique lamination 

 and of " flow and plunge;" — structures attributable to flowing 

 water. Examples ma}'^ be seen on the North Penna. R. R. and in 

 the East Park. Tlie boulders of both clay and gravel, if not 

 brought down by water alone, have been dropped by floating ice. 

 The absence of life in either deposit indicates that the water was 

 too cold to support it. 



The conclusion is therefore forced upon us tliat, during the 

 melting of the great Northern Glacier, whose southern terminus 

 crossed the river probably near Belvidere, the flooded Delaware, 

 then a great torrent five or ten miles wide and at least 150 feet 

 deeper than it is now, deposited at first gravels and afterwards, 

 when quieter, clays; while floating ice carried down already rounded 

 boulders and dropped them upon its bed. 



The uniform elevation of the edge of the clay at the base of 

 the Upland Terrace can hardly be accounted for upon another 

 hypothesis. 



The presence of an actual glacier over this region has, however, 

 been brought forward as the onl}^ explanation of our surface 

 deposits. Thus, in a recent paper, ^ the author, after inspection 

 of a gravel opening in West Philadelphia, concludes " that this 

 belt of drift deposit is no other than a glacial moraine formed by 

 the Schuylkill glacier receding from the site of the cit^." He 

 adds, " the surface of the gneiss where laid bare is comparatively 

 smooth, and shows evidence of having been polished, though so 

 soft as not to retain the marks of glaciation."' To us the very 

 locality described (Forty-fifth and Spruce) off'ers strong evidence 

 of the absence of all glacial action. The gravel, containing no 

 scratched pebbles, is horizontally stratified and shows flow and 

 l)lunge structure ; while the underlying decomposed gneiss, so far 

 from being polished, is seen in several places to have been taken 

 up by the swiftly flowing water and mingled with the gravel which 

 it bore along, so that several layers of decomposed gneiss, each 

 about half an inch in thickness^ and soon dying out, alternate with 

 the lower portion of the gravel. 



' "On Glacial Depoi^itsat W. Pliila.," Pioc. Am. Fhil. Soc, Nov., 1875. 

 18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



It has been supposed that the bending over of the outcrops of 

 steeply-dipping rocks, sometimes observed near Philadelphia, has 

 been caused by the pressure of a glacier. A very beautiful example 

 of such broken and l)ent-over strata is seen in a quarry at Edge 

 Hill. That such phenomena are to be explained, not by glacial 

 agencies, but by the force of gravitj^ onl}', — being the gradual 

 sliding-down-hill of the soil known as " creep," — is shown by the 

 facts, (1) that such bending over is always towards a lower eleva- 

 tion, — down hill; (2) that on the two slopes of the same hill the 

 strata have been seen to be bent over in opposite directions. 

 Thus at various points along the long ridge of altered Primal 

 slates known as Edge Hill, the slates on one slope are bent towards 

 the south, and on the other towards the north. A similar fact 

 has been noticed in the gneiss forming the Upland Terrace. 

 Moreover, such bending of the strata often occurs in regions quite 

 free from drift. 



If, as we have conjectured, the Delaware Valley was filled with 

 a large body of water when the drift was deposited, it is reason- 

 able to suppose that the Schuylkill also was of far greater size, and 

 that some boulders would be brought down the valle}' of that 

 stream. Here again facts sustain the hypothesis. In the gravel 

 taken from the excavation for the East Park Reservoir, associated 

 with Triassic red shale and other boulders, we have found partiall}'^ 

 worn fragments of chlorite slate containing octagonal crystals of 

 magnetite, evidently derived from the steatite quarry at Lafayette, 

 six miles above on the Schuylkill. At Twenty-eighth Street and 

 Columbia Avenue is a large boulder of trap, identical with that of 

 the trap-dyke which crosses the Schuylkill River at Conshohocken. 



It thus appears that during the Glacial epoch the waters of the 

 Schuylkill em})tied into those of the Delaware at Falls of Schuyl- 

 kill, the city proper being entirely submerged. 



Before closing our account of the Philadelphia red gravel — the 

 " University gravel," as it might be called for distinction — it will 

 be necessary to sa}' a word as to what occurs on the New Jersey 

 side of the river. If we are correct in ascribing this gravel and 

 brick-clay to a flooded river valley, similar deposits at the same 

 elevation must be found on both sides of the river. Although we 

 have been able to do but very little work upon this point in that 

 State, it has been obserA^ed : (1) That there is a sand at Camden 

 near the river, si.nilar to the sand of the " River gravel " of lower 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Philadelphia ; (2) that at a higher elcA'ation there are deposits of 

 superficial yellow brick-cla}' quite distinct from the underlying 

 plastic clays ; (8) that boulders identical with those on this side 

 of the river occur in the brick-clay ; (4) that a stratified red gravel 

 containing Triassic shale, and similar to the University gravel 

 occurs ; and, (5) that there are indications of the existence of a 

 Terrace, several miles from the river, bounding the brick-clay and 

 its boulders, and composed of an older, and probably oceanic, 

 gravel and sand. 



The Fossiliferoiis Gravel. — There seems to be evidence that 

 between the Upland Terrace and the River Gravel Terrace there 

 is an intermediate terrace, back of which is a gravel somewhat 

 different from the Philadeli)hia red gravel. It is characterized by 

 comparative absence of Triassic red shale, and by the presence of 

 numerous pebbles of flint, hornstone, or limestone, which are fre- 

 quently fossiliferous. These pebbles, as well as those of white 

 quartz, are not fresh-looking, but are eaten and weather-worn by 

 age. In both its position and its appearance it is an older forma- 

 tion than the red gravel. It is of a 3'ellowish color, becoming- 

 white when exposed to the weather, and is more sandy than the 

 red gravel. For these reasons it is less esteemed for road-making. 

 The Germantown Railroad cuts through this gravel at New York 

 Junction, We have found here pebbles containing Cyathophyl- 

 loid corals, Favosites, a Trilobite, etc. The Connecting Railroad 

 at Ridge Avenue Station cuts through the same gravel, and here 

 we have found Strophomena^ etc. Other fossils have been found 

 below the ela}' in the East Park and at the Centennial Grounds. 



This gravel is found on the high level plateau which lies at the 

 base of the Upland Terrace, and is covered b}^ more recent brick- 

 cla3^ It lies farther from the river and at a higher elevation than 

 the red gravel, and there is a decided rise in the ground from the 

 latter to the former. This terrace has been observed in many 

 places near and in the city, but has not as yet been traced con- 

 tinuously, and its existence is doubtful. Nearly- all the brick-3'ards 

 in tlie city, exceijt those in the " Neck," lie upon this gravel and 

 back of this terrace, which lies at a mean distance of about a mile 

 inside of the Upland Terrace. It seems as though the flood, 

 diminishing in breadth, had eroded away the clay within this •' Red 

 Gravel Terrace." The red gravel comes to the surface, with 

 very little overlying cla}', at elevations below about 100 feet; 

 while at a higher elevation is the brick-yard plateau. 




2C8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The Pennsj'lvania Hospital for the Insane stands upon the hill 

 forming this inner gravel Terrace. Its course is somewhat parallel 

 to the main Upland Terrace, and it crosses Walnut Street near 

 Fiftieth Street, and Broad Street near the Reading Coal Road cross- 

 ing. In Prof. Rogers' Geological Map of Pennsylvania, where a 

 rough attempt is made to represent the boundary of the drift, the 

 line in one place corresponds quite closely with what we have pre- 

 sumed to be the "Red Gravel Terrace ; " but it appears that in most 

 places in that map the boundary is meant to be merely a hypoth- 

 etical one. While the existence of this inner terrace is yet doubt- 

 ful, and while it is probable that red gravel will be found above it and 

 fossiliferous gravel below it, yet nothing has yet appeared to con- 

 trovert the assumption that the latter gravel is older than the 

 former. How much older, and whether of oceanic or of fresh- 

 water origin, is not yet determined. Here, again, a study of the 

 New Jersey gravels will be of assistance. 



The Branch town Clay. — Having now described the surface 

 deposits lying between the Delaware River and the Upland Ter- 

 race, it remains to point out the existence of some isolated patches 

 of gravel and clay which have been noticed on some of the hills 

 back of and above this terrace. 



In the village of Branchtown, on a plateau 250 feet above the 

 river, there is a local deposit of brick-cla}' \yh^g in an oblong belt 

 runnhig N. E. and S. W., perhaps a mile in length and an eighth 

 of a mile in breadth. That it is not a clay formed in place by 

 decomposition of the gneiss is shown hy the presence in it of 

 pebbles and rounded boulders of foreign rocks. The smaller 

 pebbles consist of quartz, and the larger of a friable quartz sand- 

 stone, prob?.bly Potsdam. Not a single fragment of Triassic red 

 shale, and not a single pebble of flint or fossiliferous rock was 

 found: and in this it is distinguished from any deposit heretofore 

 described. Nor were an^^ of the pebbles formed of the materials 

 of the bed of the Delaware River. Numerous sharp fragments, often 

 six inches square, of white or yelloAv siliceous sandstone and of 

 brown jaspery quartzite, both probably of lower Silurian age, were 

 f'jund. The peculiar conglomerate described below as "Mt. Holly 

 Conglomerate" does not occur. Decomposed gneiss lies below 

 the cla}^., which is two to three feet deep. The presence of sharp and 

 rounded boulders of a rock in place farther north suggests an 

 overland flood during glacial times ; but the complete absence of 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



all traces of Triassic red shale, a formation of large extent six miles 

 north of here, over which such a flood must have passed, is difficult 

 to explain upon that hypothesis. This belt of cla}', which may be 

 called for convenience the " Branchtown clay," extends S. W. 

 to Chelton Avenue and Chew Street, in Gerniantown, and to the 

 N. E. to Limekiln Pike and City Line Road, and is the site of 

 several brickyards. The clay plateau is bounded on the N. W. by 

 a hill 325 feet high. Doubtless this clay will be found in other 

 places, when more light will be thrown upon its origin and age. 



The Bryn Maior Gravel. — Upon the summits of some of the 

 highest hills in the gneissic region back of Philadelphia, at a mean 

 distance of about nine miles from the river, and at elevations of from 

 325 to 450 feet above it, there are isolated patches of an ancient 

 gravel, different from any yet described, to which we have given the 

 provisional name of " The Brj'n Mawr Gravel." It can always 

 be recognized b}- the presence of sharp or partially rounded frag- 

 ments of a hard, heavj^ iron sandstone or conglomerate. Such 

 fragments are often covered by a brownish-black iron glaze. More 

 than ten years ago, the writer noticed in the soil of the upper part of 

 Gerraantown, pieces of this conglomerate, unlike any known rock, 

 and it is only of late that its origin has been suspected. It con- 

 sists of well-rounded pebbles of quartzite or siliceous sandstone 

 cemented by iron into a stone which is often very hard. This 

 conglomerate is found in occasional fragments upon ground over 

 300 feet high, but is not found in abundance until an elevation of 

 over 400 feet is reached. At these highest points it occurs in a 

 red gravel wliose pebbles are identical with those of the conglom- 

 erate. 



One of such points is near Chestnut Hill, on the City Line 

 Road at its highest elevation, near Willow Grove Road. Here, 

 nearly nine miles from the river and 425 feet above it, is a patch 

 of this gravel and conglomerate. The larger pebbles and boulders, 

 like those of the Branchtown Cla}', consist of a friable quartzite 

 sandstone or a jaspery quartzite. Sharp fragments of quartzite 

 are numerous ; but there are no traces either of Triassic red shale, 

 of fossiliferous pebbles, or of rounded pebbles of the uiiderlying 

 gneiss. It rests upon a much decomposed gneiss. The conglom- 

 erate sometimes contains cavities filled with white sand. The 

 tract of gravel is of an oval form, whose major axis points N. E. 

 and S. W. It crosses the Township Line Road near the Bethesda 




2T0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



Home, near which place have been found a sharp boulder of conglom- 

 erate three feet in diameter, several fragments of ferruginous sand- 

 stone equally large, a partially rounded boulder of white quartz 

 nearly four feet long, and numerous fragments of quartzite and 

 Primal rocks. The gravel is here in part replaced by clay. 



A similar tract of this gravel occurs at Bryn Mawr, extending 

 from that place to near Cooperstown. A good section is exposed 

 in the railroad cut below the station. From this locality, so easy 

 of access from the city, we have named the formation. It is 

 here about 430 feet high, and nine miles from the river. The 

 gravel is ten feet deep, and lies upon a steepl^'-dipping gneiss so 

 completely decomposed that it is as soft as cla3^ Underneath the 

 bridge, a soft Avhite kaolin-like material, conformable with the 

 gneiss, shows a decomposed steatite,^-being probably the con- 

 tinuation of that which crosses the Scimylkill at Laftiyette. Here, 

 as at Chestnut Hill, the gravel lies in an isolated patch upon a hill, 

 distant from any stream or other eroding agency. The gravel 

 holds sharp fragments of primal rocks and also the iron con- 

 glomerate. As at Germantown, the fields below, to the south, 

 contain occasional fragments of the conglomerate. 



Another good exposure of the Bryn Mawr gravel is on a hill 

 crossed by the road leading from Haverford College to Coopers- 

 town. The conglomerate is here in large, sharp fragments, and 

 the gravel shows slight horizontal sti'atification. On the crest of 

 the hill, some 450 feet high, there is a weather-worn boulder, 

 four feet in diameter, of a soft, coarse, brown sandstone of Br^'n 

 Mawr age, apparently in place. 



A fourth, precisely similar exposure of gravel Avith conglom- 

 erate, and at about the s:ime elevation, caps the hill back of Media, 

 near the lloseti'ee. 



Without describing any further exposures, it already appears 

 that in these elevated patches of ancient gravel we have the last 

 remnants of a once continuous formation. The very great erosion 

 which has swept away all but these few traces is a sufficient proof 

 of its age. There are no points at all approaching the elevation 

 of these hills, between them and the Atlantic Ocean ; and it is at 

 once suggested that these patches are the remnants of an oceanic 

 deposit, possibly of Tertiary age. It is interesting to find that a 

 precisely similar formation caps some of the hills in New Jersey. 

 On top of the hill at Mount Holl}^, N. J., is an identical con- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2tl 



glomerate and gravel, similar in appearance, and composed of 

 the same materials as the formation in Pennsylvania. Tlie con- 

 glomerate has the peculiar ferruginous glaze already noticed. 

 It here overlies Cretaceous marls aud sands. 



From its abundance at this place, and in order to show its con- 

 nection with Pennsylvania deposits, we shall call the conglomerate 

 of the Biyn Mawr gravel, " Ji?. Holly Conglomerate.'''' Prof. H. 

 D. Rogers' suggests that this rock at Mt. Holly may be of Mio- 

 cene age ; but Prof. Cook, not distinguishing it from the modern 

 iron crusts in the red Philadelphia graAel near the river, considers 

 it veiy recent. In the consideration of its age it is worth noting 

 that the sand of southern New Jersej^, apparently of late Plio- 

 cene age, frequently contains rounded pebbles of Mt. Holly con- 

 glomerate, thus showing that the latter is an older formation. 



From the identit}^ of their contained boulders, it is probable 

 that the Branchtown cla}' and the Br3'n Mawr gravel are nearly 

 coeval. Being oceanic, it is presumed that they will be recognized 

 all along the gneissic hills of the southern Atlantic States. 



We have given this detailed description of each of the surface 

 formations near Philadelphia in the hope that they may be recog- 

 nized elsewhere by other geologists. It has been found that a 

 careful examination of the materials comprising each gravel, taken 

 in connection with their elevation above tide, is the onl}- means of 

 - discriminating between them. Desultory observations in detached 

 localities are of little value. Should this work be extended in 

 Penns^dvania and New Jersey, and the distinctions between the 

 four gravels described be carried out, it is thought that, notwith- 

 standing the shifting character of the underlying strata in the 

 latter State, much may be done not only towards an exact deter- 

 mination of their age, but towards a settlement of some of the 

 vexed problems of surface geology in Eastern America. 



Recapitulation. — The results obtained may be briefly summa- 

 rized as follows: — 



Forming the N W. bound.iry of the Philadelphia gravel and 

 brick-cla}' is a hill of gneis?, rising 200 feet or more above the 

 river, which ma}^ be called the Upland Terrace. It has a N. E. 

 and S. W. trend, and in this vicinity is at an average distance of 

 five miles from the river. 



1 Report ou the Geology of N. J., 1839. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



Within the Upland Terrace, resting upon its slope, and extend- 

 ing to the river, is a series of stratified gravels and a boulder- 

 bearing brick-clay. Of these, the oldest is the " Fossiliferous 

 gravel ; " a gravel l^^ing near the terrace and under the brick-clay, 

 and containing pebbles which frequently are fossiliferous. Of more 

 recent age, and at a lower level, is the " Philadelphia red gravel," 

 which is made up of the pebbles of the Fossiliferous gravel 

 mixed with fragments of Triassic red shale and other rocks 

 brought down the Delaware Valley. It is distinctly stratified, 

 rests upon decomposed gneiss, and contains rounded boulders 

 dropped by floating ice. Upon both of these gravels rests the 

 Philadelphia brick-clay, often l^ang unconformably upon them in 

 a series of pot-holes or wave-like forms, and apparently an aque- 

 ous deposit. 



A yet more recent formation, the " River gravel and sand," 

 lies within the others and close to the river, and is made up of 

 flattened pebbles composed of the rocks over which the river flows. 

 Upon this, in the river flats, lies a modern mud, the " Recent Allu- 

 vium." 



Back of the Upland Terrace, isolated patches of two surface 

 deposits, more ancient than any 3ret described, lie upon the hills. 

 These are, the " Branchtown clay," at a height of 250 feet, con- 

 taining boulders of Potsdam rocks, but no traces of Triassic red 

 shale or of fossiliferous pebbles ; and the " Bryn Mawr gravel," 

 which caps hills of a higher elevation, and which, containing 

 boulders and pebbles of identical material with those of the last, 

 is characterized by the presence of a hard iron conglomerate or 

 sandstone. This conglomerate, occurring also in New Jersey, 

 and named the " Mt. Holly Conglomerate," is conjectured to be of 

 Tertiary age. 



In these seven formations is written the geologic history of the 

 Delaware Yalley. 



Much remains to be done before any certain results can be 

 expected. It is hoped that the imperfect examination here 

 recorded may form the basis for a future and more thorough 

 study, which, extending to wider fields, shall make more exact 

 the knowledge of our surface geology. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2t3 



October 28, 1878. 



'On a Belt of Steatite and Serpentine in Radnor, Del. Go. — Mr. 

 Theu. D. Rand read a paper on a belt of Steatite and Serpentine, 

 in Radnor Township, Delaware Co., Pa. 



(Publisiied in Proc. Acad. Nat Sci.) 



November 25, 1878. 



Chromite near Radnor, Pa. — Mr. Theo. D. Rand annonneed 

 the occurrence of Chromite in considerable quantity in the 

 Southerly Serpentine Belt, near Radnor Station, Delaware Co., Pa. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



February 24, 18*79. 



ON RANDITE. 



BY THEODORE D. RAND. 



At the December meeting of the Mineralogical Section, Mr. 

 Goldsmith made a communication in regard to the uranium-yellow 

 coating found at the south end of the largest quarry at Frankford, 

 northeast of Adams Street, stating that he found in it, carbonic 

 acid, silicic acid, phosphoric acid, uranium, alumina and lime; 

 and that his conclusion was, that it was a mixture of autunnite 

 and calcite. The writer stated at the same meeting that he 

 had made an incomplete examination of the same mineral, which, 

 in great part, confirmed Dr. (roldsmith's observations, but that he 

 failed to find phosphoric acid, and promised the Section the result 

 of experiments then under way. 



At the meeting of the Academy held December 31st, 1878, Dr. 

 Koenig communicated the results of a full quantitative analysis, 

 giving the composition, a hydrous carbonate of uranium and lime, 

 to which he gave the name Kandite. 



The writer's results differ somewhat from those of Mr. Gold- 

 smith and Dr. Koenig. Owing to the very small amount of the 

 coating, and its close adhesion to the rock, proper separation was 

 impossible, and the first experiments were made by treating the 

 rock and coating, first with acetic acid, to remove calcite, then 

 with dilute hydrochloric acid. The coating was unaffected In* the 

 acetic acid, as proven by one specimen, in which, after solution of 

 a large amount of calcite, the Randite was left in tufts of acicular 

 crystals. The acetic solution contained chiefly lime, with a little 

 alumina, but no uranium. 



The hydrochloric solution yielded a small amoimt of silica, 

 alumina, sulphuric acid, and phosphoric acid, with a large amount 

 of lime and uranium. 



In the treatment with acetic acid, bubbles appeared to rise from 

 the coating — a multitude of tiny bubbles ; on the succeeding treat- 

 ment with hydrochloric acid, the bubbles were much larger, and 

 fewer in number, and appeared to rise from a cai"bonate in the 

 crevices of the rock. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



The proportion between the lime and uranium may be given as 

 follows : 



Koenig. Rand, 1. Rand, 2. 



Lime, 50 38 26 



Uranium, 44 G2 14 



10.708 gm. of coated rock, after treatment with acetic acid, 

 yielded to 8 p. c. liydrochloric acid, cold, in about five minutes 

 (the coating having disappeared), .122. On evaporating the 

 solution to dryness there was a residue less than .001 gm. The 

 solution Avas precipitated by ammonia, in the presence of chloride 

 of ammonium ; the solution with oxalate of ammonia gaA'^e car- 

 bonate of lime, .0365. The precipitate treated with acetic acid 

 dissolved wholly, except .001 of a white precipitate, which con- 

 tained phosphoric acid, and was probably phosphate of alumina. 

 The solution pi-eeipitated by phosphate of soda gave jjhos. uran., 



.0711 =U20;, .0569. 



Per cent. 



Uranic oxide, .0569 46.71 



Lime, .0204 16.71 



Phos. al? .001 .89 



Undetermined, 35.69 



100. 



About 100 grams of the rock, free from the coating, were treated 

 with acetic acid in excess. A large amount of lime was dissolved, 

 and a trace of alumina. The residue, treated with hydrochloric 

 acid, yielded a little silica, some alumina, and considerable lime. 



I infer from these tests that the mineral has not the composition 

 obtained b}^ Dr. Koenig, and that further investigation is needed, 

 if pui'e material can be obtained. 




276 PROCEEPINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



March 24, 1879. 



Some Microscopic Enclosures in Mica. — Mr. Theo. D. Rand 

 described, and exhibited under the microscope, certain crystals, 

 etc., included in mica, chiefly from Swain's quarry, Chester Co. Pa. 



Of these, the magnetite dendritic markings, and similar mark- 

 ings of red and brown colors, apparent!}' due to oxidation of the 

 magnetite, are most common and best known. Besides these the 

 following occur : — 



Hexagonal crystals, black and opaque ; angles, 60° and 120°. In 

 the form of the crystal in this description, the form of the section 

 exhibited under the microscope is intended. A similar crj'stal, 

 brown in color, perhaps the same substance, translucent ; probably 

 biotite or lepidomelane. 



Hexagonal or rhombic crj- stals of a bright red color, sometimes 

 with the angles modified; angles (;0° and 120°. There are some 

 specimens which indicate the change of the black into the red 

 rhombs. One of the red rhombs contained a black crystal, with 

 faces parallel to those of the red, and one, a very symmetrical and 

 simple crystal, from near Newtown Square, Delaware Co., Pa., 

 was black for about one-fourth its length, the remainder red. 



Rhombic crystals, polarizing light, giving very brilliant colors. 

 At first this was supposed to be due to films of the miea itself, but 

 the regularity and brilliancy of the rhombs, compared with the 

 mica, and their angles, seem to render this more than doubtful, the 

 angles being between 73^° and 78°. They are almost universally 

 accompanied by, and in contact with, the red or black rhombs, 

 and generally both. 



Quartz cr3'stals, generally flattened, sometimes very minute, 

 sometimes large enough for the crystallization to be seen with the 

 naked eye ; generally masses of crystals, showing distinct crj- stal- 

 lization on the edges only, occasionally separate doubly terminated 

 prisms. Some of the specimens with polarized light are ver^^ 

 beautiful. 



A substance usually presenting the form of disks, jL inch and 

 less in diameter, showing, with polarized light, a radiation from 

 the centre, and a change of brilliant colors as the analyzer is 

 rotated. Apparently the same material occurs in acicular crystals, 

 often twinned at 60° and 120^, in a plumose form, and in a form 

 closely resembling a section of agate across the layers. Some of 

 these disks appear to be strictly a radiation of acicular crystals 

 from a centre, others to be made up of three or more oval masses ; 

 sometimes the latter are separate, or joined two, three, four, or 

 six together, showing apparent twinning at 60° and 120° ; these 

 oval masses, with polarized light, take each a single tint at a time. 

 This material was found also in mica from near Newtown Square, 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2tt 



Delaware Co., Pa., and from the Junction Railroad, above Girard 

 Avenue, Fairmount Park, associated with rhombs apparently of 

 lepidomelane or biotite, and also with quartz. 



On the Bryn Maivr Gravel Mr. Henry Carvill Lewis re- 

 marked, that since the presentation of his paper on the " Surface 

 Geology of Philadelphia and vicinity," he had been able to extend 

 the investigation then begun, considerably beyond the limits of 

 Philadelphia. The " Upland Terrace " has now been traced con- 

 tinuously from near Trenton, through Bucks, Philadelphia, and 

 Delaware counties, to beyond Wilmington in Delaware. As far 

 as could be judged, the clay comes up to a uniform level along 

 this terrace. It has been gratifying to find that the main charac- 

 teristics of the different deposits, recorded in the paper referred to, 

 are constant throuohout the whole of this region. 



The principal difficulty in the work has been want of topographi- 

 cal data. While within the limits of the city, the topographical 

 map of the Water Department had been of great service, but 

 beyond these limits elevations had to be estimated from occasional 

 railroad levels. Topography is an aid in all geological investiga- 

 tions, but in the study of surface geologj^ it is a necessity. 



It is now desired to call attention to the great development of 

 the Bryn Mawr gravel in Delaware, and to the indications of its 

 assuming an important position in the geology of the Southern 

 States. In Bucks County, north of Philadelphia, the formation 

 has been recognized but scantily, but as we go south of the city 

 it increases largely in extent. Numerous hills in Delaware Co. 

 have been found to be capped by this formation, and in northern 

 Delaware it covers the gneissic hills in patches several miles long 

 and comes close to the river. 



The Upland Terrace, after crossing the Delaware State line 

 about two and a-half miles back from the river, gradually ap- 

 proaches it, until near Bellevue Station, P. W. and B. R. R., its 

 base is but half a mile from the river. It forms the upper portion 

 of Wilmington, and then trends S. E. towards Baltimore, north of 

 the railroad and away from the river. In the neighborhood of 

 AVilmington the Bryn Mawr gravel lies directly upon and back of 

 the Upland Terrace, which is here about 300 feet high. It is 

 abundant to the southeast of Tallyville, Del., covering a large 

 tract of country, and it appears on the hills on both sides of the 

 Brandy wine in the neighborhood of Dupont's Powder Mills. It 

 is found on the Philadelphia and Wilmington Turnpike, two miles 

 northeast of Wilmington, and one mile from the river. In many 

 places it is five feet deep, and it seems less eroded than in Penn- 

 sylvania. It consists of sharp pieces of Mt. Holly conglomerate 

 and iron sandstone with well-rounded pebbles of quartzite and of 

 Potsdam sandstone, being identical with that of Chestnut Hill 

 and Br^n Mawr. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



This forination, so abundant in Delaware, is thus proved to be 

 by no means a local one, and it is probable that it will be identified 

 with some of the formations grouped together under the name of 

 " Southern Drift." 



The Bryu Mawr gravel has also recently been found in the 

 Montgomer}' County limestone valley, and there seems to be a 

 close connection between it and the surface or drift iron ores of 

 that valley. Some of these ores appear to be simply a verj' fer- 

 ruginous variety of the Mt. Holly conglomerate. They overlie 

 unconformably the steeply-dipping decomposed shales which hold 

 a more ancient and richer ore. 



In Bucks Count}' there occurs a gravel different from any yet 

 described, M^hich at first occasioned some confusion. It has proved 

 to be the result of the decomposition of the lower Triassic con- 

 glomerate, the pebbles of which, loosened from their cementing 

 material, have been scattered tlirough the soil. These Triassic 

 pebbles are formed of gneiss, not Potsdam. Hills of red shale 

 border this gravel. 



A preliminary map of the Surface Geology of Southeastern 

 Pennsylvania was exhibited, and it was suggested that its publica- 

 tion would be of service to man 3^ besides geologists. 



April 28, 1879. 



On some Enclosures in 3Iica. — Mr. Lewis exhibited some plates 

 of Muscovite which he had found on Shoemaker's Lane, German- 

 town, which contained microscopic ciystals of peculiar shape. 

 They consisted of a dark green mica, probably Lepidomelane, 

 in minute sharp crj^stals thickly- disposed throughout the 

 muscovite. These crystals were frequently arrow-shaped, and 

 generally much elongated. Large numbers of them were shaped 

 like a musket. They were very different from any of the enclo- 

 sures in the muscovite of Pennsbury, Del. Co., and were interesting- 

 objects under the microscope. 



On Dendrites. — Mr. Henry Carvill Lewis made some obser- 

 vations upon dendrites and their mode of growth. He stated that 

 dendrites were not caused by filtration of metaliferous water, but 

 that they frequently grow upward by chemical or capillary action. 

 He described an exposure of white lower Triassic sandstone in a 

 quarry in the southern part of Noriistown, where dendrites of 

 oxide of manganese were seen upon the surface of the rock, 

 growing from below upwards. The dendrites were apparently in 

 process of growth, and were so soft that they could be scraped 

 with a knife from the rock. The material thus obtained gave a 

 bright metallic streak on the fingers, and was shown by the blow- 

 pipe to be hydrous oxide of manganese. It was otaserved that 

 while the rock above and below these dendrites was spotted with 

 minute rust-specks of manganese, the i)ortion upon which the 




1880,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPHIA. 279 



dendrites grew was pure white and free from such specks. It 

 seemed that the material of the dendrites is abstracted from the 

 rock and by some segregating force built up into tree-like forms. 

 An examination of their structures showed that the dendrites were 

 quite amorphous and that very frequently the upper extremities 

 of their branches were thicker than the stem portion, as though 

 some concretionary or capillary force acted most powerfully at 

 the growing points. No cr^'stalline structure was apparent, the 

 dendrites being bounded throughout by curved lines. It looked 

 as though they might have grown by a succession of concentric 

 metallic shells. 



It was remarked that these dendrites were quite different from 

 those in muscovite and other crystals, which, frequently derived 

 from the substance of the crystal, have been so influenced by its 

 structure as to become often pseudomorphic. It was noted that 

 there are several distinct kinds of dendrites. They may be internal, 

 as in moss agate ; or external, as in the case now described. They 

 may also be either crystalline or amorphous. The crystalline 

 dendrites are subdivided into those which have been free to 

 crystallize of their own accord, and into those which have been 

 influenced b}' the crystalline structure of the mineral in which 

 they exist. Examples of each were cited. 



On a Jurassic Sand. — Mr. Lewis directed attention to a fine 

 sand of considerable extent and depth, which he had found under- 

 lying the lower Cretaceous plastic clay. If this clay, as is supposed, 

 is the base of the Cretaceous formation, the sand below it may be 

 of Jurassic age. There is a fine exposure of this sand near Elkton, 

 Md. From its coherence it may be regarded as a fine-grained 

 sandstone. It is either white or pale yellow in color, and about 

 16 feet are hei'e exposed. Underneath the plastic cla^' south of 

 Trenton, N. J., the same sand is at least 30 feet deep. It is sug- 

 gested that, in the absence of fossils to fix its age, it may possibly 

 correspond stratigraphically with the " Hastings sand." The 

 overlying clay contains fossils at Baltimore, which Prof. Uhler 

 identifies as Wealden. 



Upon the summit of the same hill, near Elkton, where the above- 

 described sand is exposed, " Bryn Mawr gravel" occurs in abun- 

 dance. It contains " Mt. Holly conglomerate," and has the same 

 features as in Delaware and Penn^lvania. Whether or not it has 

 any connection with the plastic claj^ is not known. This same 

 l)lastic clay, of probably Wealden age, occurs at Turkey- Hill, in 

 Bucks Countv, I'enna. 



5 



May 2G, 1879. 



Potsdam Sandstone near King of Prussia. — Mr. Theodore D. 

 Rand called attention to primal (Potsdam) sandstone rocks in the 

 bed of a valley on the farm of Samuel Tyson, South Chester A'al- 

 ley Hill, near King of Prussia, Montgomery County, Pa. 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



A Kew Locality for Amethyst.— Mr. W. W. Jefferis announced 

 that Amethj'sts, well cr3'stallized, and of a rich purple color, had 

 been found this spring, for the first time, in the northern part of 

 Newlin Township, Chester Count}'. They were brought to the 

 surface by deep plowing, and were supposed to be derived from 

 a vein of this mineral. 



September 22, 1879. 



A New Corundum Locality. — Mr. W. W. Jefferis remarked 

 that a vein of blue Corundum, similar to that found in North 

 Carolina, was struck, on the south side of the Serpentine Kidge, 

 in Newlin Township, Chester County, a short time since. The 

 vein is well defined, being between walls of Culsageeite, in large 

 plates of a yellowish green color. Over 500 lbs. of massive blue 

 corundum has been taken out within ten feet of the surface. 



The llinerals of Surry County, N. G. — Mr. H. C. Lewis commu- 

 nicated the following list of minerals which he had found near 

 Dobson, Surry Co., N. C, during a recent visit to that locality :— 



Native sulphur, galena, pyrrhotite, p3n'ite,chalcopyrite, hematite, 

 menaccanite, magnetite, limonite, hausmannite, psilomelane, wad, 

 hornblende, actinolite, asbestos, garnet, talc, steatite, ripidolite, 

 chlorite. 



The psilomelane occurred in a bed about 18 feet in thickness. 



The magnetite was frequently polar. Native sulphur occurred 

 in cavities in quartzite as a coarse loose powder of rounded wax- 

 like grains, and was the result of the decomposition of pyrite. 



It was also stated that rutile occurred in Alexander Co., N. C. — 

 a new locality. 



Fossil (?) Casts in Sandstone. — Dr. J. M. Cardeza exhibited 

 specimens of quartz sandstone (Potsdam?) which he had found 

 lying loose upon the soil at Dutton's Mills, Pa., in which were 

 oblong rounded casts of sandstone, about an inch in length, and 

 similar to one another in shape. It was questioned whether they 

 mioht not be fossils. 



*» 



On a Peculiar Stratification in Gneiss. — Mr. Theodore D, 

 Rand stated that while much of the porphyritic gneiss of the belt 

 running southwest from the Falls of Schuylkill at the surface was 

 in rounded boulder-like masses, which had been mistaken for trap, 

 some of it presents at the surface a thin-bedded structure with, 

 apparently, very distinct stratification. Recently the cut of the 

 Pennsylvania Railroad through this belt, between Merion and Elm 

 Stations, about a mile from the boundary of the City of Philadel- 

 phia, has been widened, and on the south side ma}^ be seen an 

 interesting section. A mass of the gneiss, perhaps 15 feet across, 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



has ])een cut througli, and almost encircling it may he seen the 

 thin-bedded Aariet}', with its apparent stratification tangential to 

 the mass from which, by decomposition, it evidently was derived. 

 The true stratification of this bed of gneiss appears to be more 

 nearly horizontal and less contorted than that of any of the rocks 

 of the vicinit)- of Philadelpliia. 



A Neio Locality for Lignite. — Mr. Henry Carvill Lewis 

 announced the discoveiy of lignite, or brown coal, in the lime- 

 stone valley of Montgomery Coanty, a mile and a-half from the 

 boundarj' of Philadelphia. He had found it, last June, at Marble 

 Hall, close to the marble quarry, within a few feet of diggings 

 for iron ore. In order to ascertain its extent and geological posi- 

 tion more definitely, he had caused a shaft to be sunk 40 feet deep 

 on the propertN' of Henry Hitner, Esq. After passing through 38 

 feet of decomposed hydromica slate, there was found a stratum 4 

 feet thick of a tough black fire-clay filled with fragments of lignite. 

 These fragments, sometimes a foot or more in length, lay in all 

 directions in the cla^^ They had the form of twigs and branches, 

 and, though completely turned into lignite, showed distinctly the 

 grain of the wood. The smaller pieces were generally flattened, 

 and offen as soft as charcoal, but the larger ones were quite hard 

 aud brittle and had the shining fracture of true coal. It burned 

 with a bright 3'ellow flame. Frequently l)alls of pyrite occurred 

 with the lignite. 



The clay which contained it was underlaid by sand, and appeared 

 to dip south. It had an east and west strike, like that of the lime 

 stone and of the iron ores. In appearance it was similar to the 

 sub-Cretaceous plastic clays of New Jersey, which also contained 

 lignite I'esembling that of Marble Hall. White kaolin and white 

 and red potters' clay occur in the vicinity and are probably of 

 similar age. They are all older than the surface deposits and 

 gravel of the valley. 



It was stated that while lignite is not uncommon in the Triassic 

 formation, its occurrence in a Silurian limestone valley is of great 

 interest. Whether referred to Tertiary or Jurassic age, it brings a 

 new geological epoch into this region and revolutionizes our ideas 

 of the age of man^' of the so-called *■' Primal " iron ores. 



On Serpentine in Bucks County Mr. Lewis called attention 



to the fact that while serpentine was abundant in Delaware Co., it 

 had not been recorded as occurring anywhere in Bucks Co. He 

 had recently noticed an exposure of it in that county, near the 

 village of Flushing, Bensalem Township. A narrow dyke of hard, 

 impure serpentine here crosses the road near the Neshaminy 

 Creek. He thought that the genesis of serpentine and its relation 

 to the gneissic rocks was still uncertain. 



19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



October 27, 1879. 



THE IRON ORES AND LIGNITE OF THE MONTGOMERY CO. VALLEY, 



BY HENRY CARVILL LEWIS. 



The discovery ol lignite in the iron ore region north of Phila- 

 delphia introduces some new considerations in the study of its 

 geology, and has a direct bearing upon the age of its iron ores. 

 Lignite was found in this valley many years ago, but was supposed 

 to be Triassic, and therefore unimportant.' Before judging of the 

 connection that the occurrence of lignite in the Montgomery Co. 

 limestone valley will have with the geology of the Atlantic coast, 

 it will be important to enumerate other localities of a similar 

 nature where that mineral has been found. 



In his Geology of Vermont, Prof. E. Hitchcock described an 

 occurrence of lignite in a similar position at Brandon, Yt., and 

 proposed a theory which excited much attention, but which has 

 been rejected by many geologists. It was shown that a steeply- 

 dipping stratum • of lignite lay within beds of plastic clay, kaolin 

 and iron ore, all dipping steepl}^ southeast. The iron ore deposit 

 was sometimes 100 feet deep, and all these beds rested against a 

 limestone which had the same steep dip. Mottled clays were 

 described as similar to those of Martha's Vineyard and the Isle of 

 Wight, and much of the formation was said to resemble a meta- 

 morphosed mica schist. The stratum of lignite was opened from 

 near the surface to a depth of 80 feet, and was used as coal. It 

 proved to be generally dicotyledonous, and to contain twigs and 

 fruits which belonged to a tropical climate, and which Professor 

 Xesquereux referred to a Tertiary epoch, probably Miocene. From 

 this discovery, Prof. Hitchcock proposed the theorj^ that all the 

 limonite iron ores of the Atlantic coast in similar geological posi- 

 tions were Tertiary and of oceanic origin. On the other hand, 

 it was argued that an isolated example was not sufficient to estab- 

 lish such a wide conclusion, and the lignite was regarded as locally 

 :formed by having been washed mto an existing cavern in the 

 limestone floor. 



The next occurrence of lignite is a very similar one at Pond 

 Bank, near Chambersburg, Pa., described in an interesting 



» F. Piof. Leidj, Proc. Acad. Nat Sci., Phila., 1861^ 77. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



paper by Prof. Lesle3\^ Here again it was found in a limestone 

 valley close to iron ore excavations. It was at a depth of 40 feet, 

 belo-sv strata of clay and sand. According to the superintendent 

 of the mine, it was in two strata, the lowest of which was 18 

 feet in thickness, and was separated from the upper bed, 4 feet thick, 

 b}^ a stratum of sand. Below it, at a depth of 65 feet, red and 

 white plastic clay occurred. The strata were nearly horizontal. 

 It was thought that the lignite was not necessarily connected with 

 the iron ores, but w^as a local deposit of late date, made in a shallow 

 pond, and that, as at Brandon, a sink-hole had been formed in tiie 

 underlying limestone. It was regarded as of the latest Tertiary 

 age. 



Lignite has also recentlj^ been discovered by Prof Prime, in 

 Browm's iron mine, at Ironton, Lehigh Co., Pa.- He states that 

 it occurs in a Avhite plastic clay, but does not give the depth at 

 which it was fonud. He believes that it was transported by ice 

 and water in the Glacial epoch, and refers the iron oz'es of the 

 valley- to the same origin. 



The writer believes that in the light of facts now developed, 

 this theory of the age of the lignite cannot be maintained. After 

 an inspection of the locality, he has found that the surface-drift 

 and boulders of that valley lie unconformably upon the forma- 

 tion containing the lignite. The lignite lies at a depth of 46 

 feet from the surface, in a tough plastic clay, which is entirely 

 free from boulders. About 30 feet of potters' clay and decom- 

 posed hydromica slate lie upon the lignitic stratum, and resting 

 upon the whole is 15 feet of drift. This surface drift, of yellow 

 brick-clay, boulders, gravel and drift iron ore, is thus of quite 

 different character from the strata below it, and is probably de- 

 posited b}^ glacial water's. The underlying formations have, 

 apparently, in some places, a dip like that of the adjacent lime- 

 stone, and are certainly more ancient than the surface drift. 



The lignite recently found by the writer in the Montgomery Co. 

 valley, and described at the last meeting of the Section, occurs 

 under conditions very similar to those above indicated. In im- 

 mediate proximity both to a limestone outcrop and to iron ore 

 diggings, it was found at a depth of 35 feet, in a plastic cla}'- 

 which contains no gravel or boulders, and which is overlaid by 



1 Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, ix, 463. 



^ Report DD., 2d Geolog. Survey of Pa., p. 76. 




284 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



clay and decomposed hydromica slate. A surface drift, containing 

 iron ore, gravel, and occasional boulders, lies unconformably upon 

 the whole formation. The section here presented was made in a 

 shaft which the writer was allowed to have sunk within a few feet 

 of Mr. Hitner's marble quarry, Marble Hall, Montgomery County. 



FEET. 



10 



m 



2^ 



LLLLU 



" Top dirt," yellow, impure. 



Soft white decomposed hydromica slate or im- 

 pure " kaolin," containing occasional broken 

 seams of sharp quartzite,'but no pebbles. 



Coarse white sand and rounded pebbles ; appar- 

 ently a decomposed sandstone. 

 Tough mottled red claj'. 



Blue plastic clay. 



Lignite in a very tough, dark clay. 



Coarse yellow sand, with fragments of stony 

 iron ore and with pebbles. 



The lignite bed contains occasional streaks of fine gray sand, 

 and is underlaid by a coarser sand. So far as could be judged 

 from the very limited exposure, it dipped south, at an angle of 

 about 30° ; becoming thicker as it dipped. The lignite lies in 

 fragments in the clay, and consists of twigs and branches of land 

 plants, apparently all dicotyledonous. The lignite frequently 

 shows a brilliant black lustre when transversely fractured. The 

 small fragments are more like charcoal, and are often in the form 

 of flattened twigs. Some of these appear to be partially rounded 

 by attrition. No shells or marine fossils occur. Pyrite frequently 

 encrusts the lignite or forms nodules, and when exposed to the 

 air decomposes into ferrous sulphate. 



At this same locality, lignite has been taken from three other 

 shafts in addition to the one just described. Two of these are 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHlLADELrHIA. 285 



close to the Marble Quariy, but the third is about 400 feet east of 

 these, behiud the barn of Mr. H. S. Hitner, who sa^-s that it Avas 

 found many feet below the surface. These facts indicate an east 

 and west strike to the lignitic strata, and an extent of 400 feet in 

 length and 40 feet in breadth. Shafts 100 feet north of these 

 struck iron ore, but no lignite. They exhibited the following 

 succession of strata: — (1) "Top dirt;" (2) Decomposed hydro- 

 mica slate; (3) White clay; (4) Yellow sand ; (5) Iron ore. 



Recent explorations have shown that Marble Hall is not the 

 only locality where lignite is found, but that it occurs in a number 

 ol other places in the same valley. About a mile and three- 

 quarters west of Marble Hall it was formerly found in a field on 

 the Eidge Road, opposite a house once owned by W. Potts. It 

 was at a depth of about 40 feet. Red and white potters' clay, 

 white kaolin and iron ore are found close to the opening. The 

 lignite at this place is hard, and is said to burn well. Another 

 locality is on the farm of W. Wills, south of Plymouth Creek, 

 about one mile from Conshohocken. Considerable quantities of 

 lignite have been here exhumed, the pieces being often a foot in 

 length. This shaft was opened about thirt}'^ years ago, and was 

 probably the locality referred to by Dr. Leid}'. Lignite has also 

 been found in a number of iron ore pits south of here and east of 

 Conshohocken. It is said always to occur in fire-clay. 



The above localities are all included in a strip of country about two 

 and a-half miles long and a quarter of a mile broad, Ij'ing in nearly an 

 eist and west direction. The lignite appears to form two distinct, 

 na. row lines of outcrop with a definite E. and W. or E. N. E. and 

 W. S. W. strike, — thus conforming with the limestone. While its 

 dip has not been actually established, the decomposed slates and 

 sandstones of apparently similar age have been observed to dip 

 40° S. 20° W. 



From these facts it would appear that the lignite is not a mere 

 local wash or accidental deposit, but thatf it is part of a stratified 

 and distinct formation, having a trend like that of the limestone, 

 and of considerable extent ; and when the strata in the Mont- 

 gomery Count}" Valley are compared with those in other parts of 

 the countr}^, it will be seen that we have here to deal with a forma- 

 tion which, closely connected with the limonite iron ores of the 

 great limestone valleys, and having remarkably similar characters 

 throughout, may prove an important feature in American geology. 



In entering upon a consideration of the age of the lignite, it will 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



be desirable brieflj^ to sketch the geolog}', and especially the 

 surfoce geolog}' of the valley in which it occurs. 



The underlying rock is an altered lower Silurian limestone, the 

 "Auroral " of Rogers, which in the southern part of the valley is 

 crystalline marble and in the northern part is a sand}^ magnesian 

 limestone. It has an E. and W. strike and a steep south dip, and 

 is supposed to have an inverted synclinal structure. The lime- 

 stone rises to the surface in a series of parallel ridges, and between 

 these lie the iron ores and the lignitic strata. Bounding the valley 

 are hills of altered shale of probably Potsdam age. Beyond this 

 line of hills to the north, are the Triassic red shales and sand- 

 stones, while to the south is the Philadelphia gneissic district. 

 In many places the North Valley Hill has been eroded away and 

 Triassic strata lie directly upon the limestone. 



The iron ores of this region probably belong to four different 

 geological ages, and may therefore be divided into four classes. 



1. Gneissic Ore. This ore, never found in the valle3^, occurs in 

 the gneissic rocks of Chester County north of the Chester Vallej^, 

 and has been formed in place from the altered gneiss. It dips 

 with the gneiss, and is generally accompanied by scales of graphite. 

 Prof. Rogers^ supposed that this ore belonged to isolated patches 

 of Triassic red sandstone. The writer, however, has not been able 

 to confirm his sections, nor to show the presence of any more 

 recent formation than the aneiss. 



2. Primal Ore. The hydromica slates which lie between the 

 Potsdam sandstone and the limestone liberate, when decomposed, 

 a rich limonite ore which is largely mined in jjortions of the 

 valley. Although in very irregular beds, a steep dip can be re- 

 cognized. It is perhaps derived from the decomposition of pyrite. 

 This is pi-obably the ore mined at Edge Hill. 



3. Tertiary Ore. This ore, associated with which are the de- 

 posits of lignite, plastic clay, kaolin, fire-sand, etc., has been 

 hitherto confounded either with the Primal ore or Avith the Drift 

 ore of the valle^'. In that part of the valley under discussion 

 there are three distinct lines of outcrop of this ore, having nearly 

 an E. and W. trend. A ridge of limestone separates two of these 

 lines. The ore lies, sometimes at a great depth, below a re-stratified 

 decomposed h3dromica slate. This latter formation is almost 

 identical in appearance with the decomposed Primal slate in place 



1 Geol. of Penna., I, 87. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



at the edges of the valle}', and has therefore been mistaken for it. 

 The discovery of lignite below it proves its re-stratification in a 

 later age. In manj- places shafts have been sunk over 100 feet 

 without coming to the limestone. The ore, originally derived 

 either from the limestone or from the primal slates, appears to lie 

 below the lignitic strata, 



4. Drift Ore. Resting often unconformabl}^ upon these last, and 

 capping the elevations thi-oughout the valley, is a drift deposit of 

 gravel and boulders containing a workable iron ore. The compo- 

 sition of this drift is most interesting. Its boulders, almost with- 

 out exception, are composed of a loose-grained Potsdam sand- 

 stone, — a formation not now existing either on the North or South 

 Valley Hill at this place, and found only in a limited exposure at 

 the eastern end of the valley. The ScoUthiis linearis is frequently 

 found in these boulders. Moreover, notwithstanding the large 

 extent of Triassic red shale and sandstone immediatel}' to the 

 north of the valle}', and the occurrence of that rock resting often 

 directly upon the limestone, not a trace nor a fragment of Triassic 

 rocks have been found in this drift. 



The evidence is here strong that this drift has not been caused 

 by any flood from the north in a modern age. Additional evidence 

 bearing upon the same point is found in the fact that the Triassic 

 region north of here is absolutely free from drift of any kind. A 

 careful study by the writer of much of that region has shown that 

 not a single drifted pebble is there found. The soil is formed 

 from the rocks below it, and such elaj^s as occur are bog clays of 

 local origin and recent age. That the pebbles of the valley drift 

 have not been derived by weathering from the neighboring lower 

 Triassic conglomerate, which holds often large pebbles, is shown 

 by the fact that such pebbles are here formed entirely of gneiss 

 or gneissic quartzite, and never of Potsdam, and therefore are 

 quite different from those in the valle3^ 



The drift ore and gravel does not lie in hollows, as though 

 locally washed, but is found in patches upon the elevated portions 

 of the valley, as though it were the remnant of a once continuous 

 deposit. 



The facts above enumerated suggest a possible origin at an age 

 when cliffs of Potsdam sandstone, since eroded awaj-, stood as a 

 high barrier between the limestone valley and the Triassic rocks 

 north of it. Such a barrier would effectually prevent Triassic 

 fragments from mixing with the drift of the valle}', and would, 




288 PROCEEDINGS 'of THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



during its degradation, offer the material for the pebbles and 

 boulders of that drift. In Triassic times some such barrier may 

 have formed the southern shore of the Triassic waters. It has 

 been interesting to discover that most of the pebbles belonging to 

 the sub-Cretaceous plastic clays of the Delaware are formed of 

 Potsdam sandstone, and that therefore during lower Cretaceous 

 times also, some such mountain of Potsdam must have offered 

 itself to eroding agencies. Again, it is found that Tertiary* gravels, 

 both in Pennsyh'ania and New Jersey, contain an abundance of 

 Potsdam pebbles. The hypothesis that the materials for the sub- 

 Cretaceous plastic clays and the Tertiary gravels were furnished by 

 hills now sunk beneath the Atlantic Ocean ^ is not sustained by 

 what is known of the configuration of the sea-bottom. The theory 

 now offered is supported by numerous facts concerning the power 

 of erosion, which geological considerations in other fields have 

 presented. 



In a former paper on "The Surface Geology of Philadelphia and 

 vicinity," the writer showed that, in addition to the clays, four 

 separate gravels of different ages can be distinguished in that 

 region. These are (1) ''The River Gravel," the newest of all the 

 gravels; (2) "The Philadelphia Eed Gravel," of Champlain age; 

 (3 ) '' The Fossiliferous Gravel," recently proved by the writer to 

 be of upper Tertiary, perhaps Pliocene age, and now called the 

 " Glassboro Gravel ; " (4) " The Br^ai Mawr Gravel," the oldest 

 of the gravels, also oceanic, aud conjectured to be of upper 

 .^Miocene agfi. This last gravel, and this only, agrees in its char- 

 s.'Sicters with the valley drift now under consideration. In the 

 «;absence of .all Triassic fragments, in the presence of Potsdam 

 'boulders, and in the amount of erosion, these two gravels are iden- 

 :tieal, and it saems probable that the " Drift Iron Ore " of the one 

 is only a very ferruginous variety of the "Mt, Holly Conglom- 

 ero^te " of the olher. This being the case, we have here a formation 

 wh.icii, notwithstanding its boulders, suggestive of floating ice, ap- 

 pears ,to be older than an oceanic Pliocene gravel. There is per- 

 haps no good reason wh}'^ a glacier might not have existed in 

 upper Tertiary tim«s, boulders formed by which ma^^ still be 

 .fouit(i. However tikis may be, it appears that there are strong 

 grourjds for assiguiiag an upper Tertiary age to the drift ore and 

 :gra,vel «of the Montgoiiaer^^ County Valley. 



Retui'Aing, finall}', to the lignite and associated strata, shown to 



•^ .Report,ffla Clay Deposits of N. J., 1878, pp. 20.31. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



be older than the formation just described, and shown by its own 

 characters to bear no trace of glacial agencies, we may conjecture, 

 without au}^ reference to the phmts of the lignite, a middle or lower 

 Tertiary age. From the steep dip of the beds, — a fact difficult to ex- 

 plain ,— and from the great resemblance of the plastic clays to those in 

 New Jersey, on the Delaware, the writer at first supposed them to 

 be of Wealden age. Some facts in connection with a gravel found 

 in Virginia and other Southern States, which, in both appearance 

 and position is ver}' similar to the Bryn Mawr gravel, were at first 

 thought to indicate a Jurassic age. But after a comparison with 

 the other lignite localities, and especiall}^ with that at Brandon, 

 where the fossils were shown to be of Tertiary age, this view can 

 hardly be sustained. The absence of shells or marine plants indi- 

 cates a period of inland waters, and the plants at Brandon belong 

 to a tropical climate. 



It is now suggested that the period of the lignite mny corre- 

 spond most closely with that called b}' European geologists the 

 Oligocene. Since, in the present state of our knowledge, it is obvi- 

 ously' unsafe to make the age of these lignite deposits contempora- 

 neous with any exact geological epoch, and as there is a possibility 

 of their belonging to some period not recognized elsewhere, it will 

 probably be wiser for the present to group them together under 

 the name of The Brandon Period. As more facts develop and 

 wider comparisons can be made, more certain conclusions will be 

 possible ; aiid it must be understood that the theories here proposed 

 are brought forward onlj^ as those which now appear best to ex- 

 plain the facts observed. 



Postscript. — Since the presentation of the above paper, the writer 

 has been in correspondence with Prof. N. A. Bibikov, of Augusta, 

 Georgia, who has recently discovered lignite in that vicinity. The 

 locality, called "Read's Brown Coal Mine,'' is in Richmond County, 

 two and a-half miles from Berzelia, and sixteen miles from Au- 

 gusta. It is described as h'ing back of the outcrops of gneiss and 

 limestone, and is apparently in a very similar geological position 

 to the Pennsylvania locality. Iron ore, plastic clay, kaolin, and 

 decomposed sandstone occur with the lignite. As in Pennsylvania, 

 the lignite was found in a plastic clay beneath 25 feet of a decom- 

 posed sandstone. Pour strata of lignite, separated by layers of 

 shale and clay, were found at a depth of from 30 to 45 feet from 

 the surface. A series of coarse and fine sands and clays under- 

 laid these deposits and were penetrated to a depth of 95 feet. 




290 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



|_1880. 



Three different shafts were sunk, the extremes being 600 feet apart, 

 in all of which lignite was found. The shaft in which the following 

 section was made is about 150 feet from an outcrop of hornstone 

 and quartzite, and 300 feet from a creek which lies 200 feet 

 below it. 





24 



1 

 3 



2 

 1 

 3 



6 



1 



8 

 1 



2 



8 



11 



+ 



rM 





©;-=3): 





Mottled clay. 



Decomposed sandstone. 



Crust of iron sandstone and spathic iron. 



Decomposed sandstone 



with thin layers of clay. 



Nodules of pyrite. 

 Lignite. 

 Shale and clay. 

 Lignite. 



Shale and clay. 

 Lignite. 

 Shale and clay. 



Lignite. 



Light-colored shale 

 with fossil plants. 



Dark-colored (bituminous) shale. 



White clay with streaks 

 of rose-color, etc. 



Sandy clay. 



Ferruginous coarse sand with nodules of clay iron-stone, 

 4 inches to 2^ feet in diameter with ochre, clay, etc., 

 and quartz i^ebbles sometimes 3 inches in diameter. 



Light-colored shale. 

 Yellowish sand. 



Sandy clay. 



White, very fine micaceous sand 

 with clay. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



The second stratum of lignite is the best, and contains fragments 

 of lignite sometimes three feet long. A number of fossil plants have 

 been found in this and other laj-ers. Some specimens were im- 

 bedded in a Isiyev of brown sandstone. The fossils appear to be 

 fragments of trees, grasses and other land plants, none of Avhich, 

 however, were sufficiently perfect to be determined. No shells 

 were found. 



The whole section at Berzelia is rem.irkabl}- similar to those at 

 Brandon, Chambersburg, Ironton and Marble Hall, and with them 

 indicates the existence of a great inland fresh water Tertiar}' for- 

 mation in Eastern America, during the Brandon Period, once 

 fifty miles broad and nearly a thousand miles long. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



All Enclosure in Quartz. — Mr. H. C. Lewis exhibited a crystal of 

 quartz from Herkimer County, N. Y., in wliich, hanging from a 

 bubble which moved in a cavity containing liquid, was a tuft of 

 minute acicular crystals of a pure white color. A microscopical 

 examination had failed to identify them with any known substance. 

 The crystals were similar to those of many organic salts. It was 

 conjectured that they had crystallized out from the liquid. Under 

 a power of 75 they looked like tufts of white wool, and it was 

 suggested that if future investigation failed to refer them to a 

 known mineral species, it might be convenient to give them the 

 name Erilite (from £V>:ov, wool). 



In other cavities in the same crystal thei-e was an amorphous 

 yellow^ish-brown w^axy substance of unknown composition. 



Menaccanite and Talc from Maryland — Mr. Wm. W. Jefferis 

 remarked that in Harford Count}^, Md., near the village of Dublin, 

 there is a vein of green foliated Talc in the serpentine, which has 

 been opened about 6 feet in length. It has furnished cleavage 

 foliated specimens over a foot in extent. The same vein contains 

 Menaccanite in tabular crystals, Avell crystallized. Yellow beryl 

 has also been found there, showing all three in the same specimen. 



Sunstone in Lahradorite. — Mr. Jefferis stated that on examin- 

 ing a specimen of Labradorite in his possession, from the coast of 

 Labrador, he found that in addition to the usual play of colors 

 (blue and green), by turning it in another direction it showed 

 innumerable crystals of giithite, making it a beautiful sunstone, 

 which, he believed, was an unusual thing, and w4iich he had not 

 found mentioned in the books. 



On a Probable Pseudomorphism of Gummite and Uranotile after 

 Uraninile. — Dr. A. E. Foote remarked that among a number of 

 specimens of gummite and uranotile, that he had recently' received 

 from Mitchell Co., N. C, he noticed some which were of remark- 

 ably regular form. The edges were slightl}' rounded, but they 

 were apparently simple prisms belonging to the triclinic system. 

 On breaking these open he found a solid core of uraninite, sur- 

 rounded by a layer of gummite, and this, in turn, surrounded b^^ 

 a layer of uranotile. Although crystals of uraninite have never 

 been obsei-ved, he ventured to suggest that this is plainly a case 

 of pseudomorphism after uraninite. He hoped hereafter to obtain 

 crystals wdiose angles can be accurately measured. 



He had observed nt least twenty specimens having evidentl}- the 

 same crystalline form, and all plainly pseudomorphs after some 

 pre-existing crystal. The majority of those that were broken open 

 showed the alteration of uraninite into gummite, and of gummite 

 into uranotile ; though in a few the uraninite had been changed, 

 and the crystal showed simply gummite and uranotile. 




1880.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



293 



November 24. 1879. 



on a new fucoidal plant from the trias. 



by henry carvill lewis, 



The fossil described here as Palseophycas limaciformis^ sp. nov., 



is from a very beautiful and well-defined specimen, casts of which 



stand out in relief upon a slab of Triassic sandstone. It was 



found by the writer near Milford, New Jersey,' in upper Triassic 



strata. Its general faeies is like that of some species of Palseo- 



phycus and Astropthycus of the Carbonifei'ons age, and of Butho- 



trephis of the Clinton group, and it belongs to the same order of 



plants — that of the fucoid or marine algae. The general, rather 



than generic name of Palaeophycus, which is quite as indefinite as 



that of Fucoides, is well applicable to it. 



The frond is cjdindrical and jointed. The ramuli, or short 

 l)ranches of the frond are flesh}-, tubular, elongated bodies of about 

 an inch in length. They are spindle-shaped, attenuate, and more 



or less curved at both ends. 

 The}' are very frequentl}^ ag- 

 gregated in bunches of three 

 or more, radiating from a com- 

 mon point of growth, and are 

 generall}' detached from the 

 main frond. The form of 

 these bodies is characteristic 

 of the plant, being distinctl}' 

 snail-shaped; hence its spe- 

 cific name, " limacifomnis.-^ 

 At the locality where it 

 was found there also occur 

 specimens of ripple-marked 

 sandstone, also of rain-prints 

 and mud-cracks. These show 

 the phj-sical conditions under 

 which the plant grew — that 

 of mudflats in shallow water 

 frequentl}' left exposed to 

 sun and rain. The rain-prints 

 have been compared with 



Nat. Size. 

 PalcEophycus limaciformis Lewis, sp. nov. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



modern rainprints made in mud, and their great similarity noticed. 

 One specimen of a fucoid found liere has apparently been so con- 

 fused and distorted by the beating of a heavy rain-storm that its 

 structure can scarcely be recognized. 



Fucoids of somewhat similar apjjearance have been described 

 from more ancient geological horizons, but not, so far as can be 

 learned, from the Trias. The occurrence of a plant which has the 

 characters of marine algae in a formation supposed to have been 

 deposited by fresh water is interesting. 



Postscript. — Since the above paper was presented, a photograph 

 of this fossil has been sent to Mr. Leo Lesquereux, the distin- 

 guished paleobotanist, who, in a letter to the writer, says : " Your 

 plate represents what I consider a new species of Palseo2:>hycus, 

 whose analogy is with P. (species undetermined) Hall, Paleont. 

 of N. Y., vol. i, PI. 70 (Hudson River group); also distantly 

 related to Fucoides auriformis and especially F. heterophyllus, 

 same author, 1. c, ii, PI. .3, figs. 3, 4. You may also find a kind 

 of analogy to what Hall considers and figures as roots or also as 

 stems of some marine plants, same vol., PI. 8, figs. 4, 5, and pi. 9, 

 fig. 4, and also pi. 10, figs. 5, 7 (all Clinton plants). The type is 

 evidently old, rather Devonian, even upper Silurian. European 

 authors have nothing like this from the Trias, Jurassic, Cretaceous 

 or Eocene." • 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 295 



TJie Northern Belt of Serpentine in Radnor Township. — Mr. 

 Ranp made the followinaj communication. 



Sometime ago, in a communication to the Academy, (Proc. Ac. 

 N. S., 1878, 402) I described a belt of serpentine in the valley of 

 the Gulf Creek, Radnor Township, Delaware Co., Pa. Recently a 

 trench for water pipe on the property of Judge Hare has enabled 

 me to procure specimens illustrating a section across the bed and 

 on both sides of it, which are presented herewith. The section is 

 on a line nearl}^ N. 75° W. The belt is probablj' not far from N. 

 70°-73° E., or about two-thirds that of the section, but this is not 

 certain. While deductions from these few specimens would not 

 be safe, 3"et the strong resemblance between the decomposed 

 gneiss of the easternmost exposure and the clearly magnesian 

 rocks 40 feet distant, points more to an alteration in place than to 

 a distinct bed. 



Garnet mistaken for Corundum. — Dr. J. M. Cardeza called 

 attention to a garnet rock at Chelsea, Delaware Co., Pa., which is 

 quarried and used as corundum. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



THE TRENTON GRAVEL AND ITS RELATION TO THE ANTIQUITY OF MAN. 



BY HENRY GARVIIiL LEWIS. 



In the course of an investigation of tlie Surface Geology of 

 Southeastern Pennsylvania, some facts have been developed in 

 connection with one of the gravels, which,, bearing directly upon 

 the Antiquity of Man in America, become of great interest.. 

 Among the many scientific problems now attracting attention^ 

 none perhaps holds a more prominent position than that of the 

 Antiquity of Man. It is a subject which, notwithstanding the 

 numerous facts gathered and the bulk of literature published, must 

 be regarded as still in an undecided condition. 



As the Delaware is in many respects a tj'^pical river, and as 

 therefore deductions made here will hold good for the valle3^s of 

 many other rivers of the Atlantic coast, it is thought that a record 

 of the investigation will be of more than mere local interest. The 

 subject will be approached from a purely geological standpoint. 

 The main difficult}^ in inquiries of this kind has been the absence 

 of exact geological data. Hasty conclusions have been drawn 

 from an inspection of relics found in a gravel, which a more 

 accurate knowledge of the age of that gravel would not have 

 sustained. 



The writer has shown in former papers ' that the gravels of the. 

 Delaware Valley belong to several distinct ages ; and if therefore 

 at any place the remains of man are shown to occur, it will be all 

 important to know to which of these gravels they should be 

 referred. 



The surface formations of Southeastern Pennsylvania may be 

 divided into five clays and four gravels. The following is believed 

 to be the succession in which the^- occur, beginning at the 

 oldest: (1) Jurasso-Cretaceous plastic clay; (2) Tertiary clays, 

 (" Brandon Period ") ; (3) Bryn Mawr gravel, (upper Tertiary); (4) 

 Branchtown clay; (5) Glassboro gravel, (Pliocene); (6) Phila- 

 delphia red gravel, (Champlain) ; (7) Philadelpiiia brick-clay, 

 (Champlain) ; (8) Trenton gravel, ("Eskimo period"; ; (9) Recent 

 alluvium. Of clays, the oldest is the Jurasso-Cretaceous plastic 

 clay exposed at Turkey Hill, Bucks Co. A similar plastic clay, 



1 "The Surface Geology of Phila. and vicinity." Proc. Min. and Geol. 

 Section, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., Nov. 1878. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



which, however, may be of later age, has been passed through by 

 artesian wells in the southern part of Philadelphia. The next 

 oldest clay appears to be the potters' clay of the Moutgomer}- Co. 

 limestone valley, which, containing sometimes lignite, and overlaid 

 by kaolin, decomposed hydromica slate, etc., belongs with its asso- 

 ciated limonite ores, to an inland Tertiary formation, the " Bran- 

 don Period,'' possibly of Oligocene age.^ A third clay, the 

 " Branchtown claj^" found at high elevations in a few places in 

 the gneissic region, containing occasional boulders, was made at a 

 period of general submergence and appears to be of a late Tertiary 

 age. The " Philadelphia brick-cla3' " of more recent formation, 

 of large extent, and with numerous boulders, is confined to the 

 river valley. This clay, deposited at the close of the Glacial period 

 by the waters resulting from the melting of the great Northern 

 Glacier, rests against the rocky " upland terrace " at a height of 

 about 150 feet above the present river. The fifth and newest 

 clay is the recent bog claj^ or mud in the flood-plain of the 

 river, still in process of formation. 



The gravels are distinguished from one another both by their 

 composition and b}' their relative hj'psometrical positions. The 

 " Bryn Mawr gravel" — the oldest gravel of consequence in this 

 region — is readil^^ distinguished from others by the peculiar mate- 

 rials composing it, and is also known b}' being found at high 

 elevations (400 feet), in often isolated patches, capping the gneissic 

 hills. It is characterized by absence of fossiliferous or Triassic 

 pebbles and by the presence of an iron conglomerate, and is of 

 oceanic origin, and probably upper Tertiary age.^ A similar gravel 

 occurs on the heights of Georgetown, D. C. The next oldest 

 gravel, also oceanic, and which here occurs at lower elevations 

 than the last, the writer called in a former paper " The Fossilifer- 

 ous Gravel." It frequently contains pebbles formed of Niagara 

 limestone and other fossiliferous rocks, and has been found abun- 

 dantly' in New Jersey as well as in Pennsylvania. It is well 

 exposed in the railroad cut at Ridley Park, Del. Co. It is the 

 yellow gravel Avhich caps the watershed between the Atlantic 

 and the Delaware at a height of nearly 200 feet, and is now named 

 for distinction " The Glassboro gravel." Its pebbles are frequently 



^ F. "The Iron Ores and Lignite of the Montgomery Co. Valley," by 

 the writer. Oct., 1879. 



= 7. "On the Bryn Mawr Gravel," by the writer, Mar., 1879. 

 20 




^98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



weather-worn and eaten hy age, and have thus a much more ancient 

 appearance than the smooth, fresh-looking pebbles of later gravels. 

 It contains no boulders of consequence and is believed to be of 

 Pliocene age. 



L^-ing at a lower level, within the Grlassboro gravel, and formed 

 of a mixture of its pebbles with others brought down the Dela- 

 ware valle}^, is a third gravel — the " Philadelphia red gravel." 

 This, like its overlying bi'ick-cla}', is confined to the river valley. 

 It is distinctly stratified ; it contains numerous fragments of 

 Triassic red shale and of gneiss, and smooth boulders of Silurian 

 rocks ; it shows flow and plunge structure and wave action on a 

 large scale ; and like the older gravels, it rests upon a decomposed 

 gneiss, which is sometimes interstratified with its lower laj^ers. 

 There are numerous exposures near the Universitj^ of Pennsjd- 

 vania. The writer has identified it on the Potomac and other 

 rivers, and it appears to belong to the age of the melting glacier — 

 the Champlain epoch. 



The last and newest of all the gravels is one which, at Philadel- 

 phia, seemed to be of little importance. It lies close along 

 the river, and rising a few feet above it, extends but a short dis- 

 tance back from the river bank. It covers the flat ground of 

 Camden and the lower part of Philadelphia, and forms islands in 

 the river. It was called The River gravel and sand. It is this 

 alluvial gravel, the latest, except the recent mud-flats, of all the 

 surface formations, which is the subject of the present paper, and 

 which, from its great development farther up the river, is now 

 named The Trenton Gravel. It is in this gravel, and in this 

 gravel only, that traces of man have been found. 



The Trenton Gravel at Philadelphia is composed principally of 

 a sharp micaceous sand, which, when below water-level, becomes 

 a "quicksand." Gravel lies below the sand. Unlike all the other 

 gravels, it contains but few pebbles of white quartz, and is of a 

 dark gray color. Its pebbles are made exclusively of the rocks 

 forming the upper valley of the river. Their shape is also very 

 characteristic. The pebbles of the older gravels are oval or egg- 

 shaped, but these are for the most part flat. This flat shape is 

 characteristic of all true river gravels. At several places along 

 the Delaware, gold has been obtained from this gravel. The 

 absence of clay in anj^ of its laj-ers indicates the action of swiftly- 

 running water. Data obtained from artesian wells have shown 




1880."] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



that this formation has a depth on Delaware Avenue, Philadelphia, 

 of about 50 feet, and that it extends up to about Third and Market 

 Streets. On Smith's Island and on the bar in the river opposite 

 Cooper's Point, it is 100 feet deep, lying upon rock. It therefore 

 underlies the river, filling up its ancient channel. On Richmond 

 Street some verj- large boulders are seen lying upon the sand. 



On tracing the Trenton gravel up the river, it is found to be 

 confined to its immediate vicinity, and that, from Philadelphia to 

 the Neshaminy Creek, its boundary is generally between the linO: 

 of the Pennsylvania Railroad and the Delaware. From this point 

 the bounding terrace trends directlv towards MorrisviUe and 

 away from the present river. Thus, at Bristol, the gravel and its 

 overlying sand extends two miles back from the river, and is. 

 bounded b^' a well-marked hill, upon which lie the older gravel 

 and brick-clay of Champlain age. These and the Tertiary gravels, 

 extend nearl}' seven miles inland. At Tullytown the Trenton 

 gravel extends two and a-half miles back, and at the canal shows 

 the following succession of strata : (1) sandy loam, 1 foot ; (2) fine 

 gray "moulding-sand," 2| feet; (3) shai-p "bar sand," 1 foot; (i) 

 clean gray river gravel of unknown depth. In other openings 

 near here the gravel is so full of boulders that these are dug in 

 large quantities and sent to Philadelphia for " cobble-stones." 

 Near Wheatsheaf Station, close to the railroad,. an opening which 

 has exposed a section of the Trenton gravel nearly half a mile in 

 lenoth. exhibits well the general features of the formation. The 

 pebbles, of characteristic shape and color, are made of gray Triassie 

 argillite, slate, red shale, sandstone, conglomerate, and various:, 

 other rocks found farther up the valley, while large and often 

 sharp boulders of red shale and other materials frequently occur. 

 The whole formation has a A-ery fresh appearance when compared 

 with older gravels. Xear Turkey Hill a large smooth boulder, 

 five feet in diameter, lies upon the sand. 



At MorrisviUe the narrower portion of the valley begins, and 

 from here up, the river flows on arockA* bottom, and the gravel is 

 shallow and is confined to the immediate vicinity of the river. 

 The older gravels of oceanic origin continue across New Jersey 

 and do not appear above Yardleyville. The Philadelphia red 

 gravel is no more seen, but the brick claj' with its boulders occa- 

 sionally appears part way up the steep hills enclosing the valley,, 

 and is abundant in the side valleys formed by tributary streams. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Above Yardleyville, therefore, we have to deal with but two sur- 

 face formations, — the boulder-bearing brick clay, often much 

 eroded, and the Trenton gravel, confined to the bottom of the 

 valley and showing but little erosion. It will be well to bear in 

 mind the distinction between these two formations, — the one of 

 glacial, the other of post-glacial age. The writer has traced them 

 as far up as the Water Gap, past the great terminal moraine into 

 -laciated regions. It is interesting to note that while the modified 

 moraine material close to the river at Belvidere is in some points 

 similar to the Trenton gravel, and is the source of part of that for- 

 mation , the moraine on the Lehigh River at Stemton and at other 

 inland localities contains pebbles and boulders very similar to 

 those of the Philadelphia brick-clay. 



Throughout the whole course of the Trenton gravel it is observed 

 that it lies within a channel previously excavated down to the 

 rock through the boulder-bearing brick claj- and its red gravel, 

 which, as shown in a former paper, belong to the Champlain epoch. 

 The Trenton gravel is therefore, later than the Glacial and Cham- 

 plain epochs ; and this is a fact which, when considered in connec- 

 tion with the human relics found in this gravel and the consequent 

 antiquit}^ of man, it will be most important to remember. 



Having now sketched the character and position of the Trenton 

 gravel along the Delaware valley, we are prepared to examine the 

 formation as exposed at the locality whose name we have chosen 

 to distinguish it. 



Trenton is in a position where naturally the largest amount of a 

 river gravel would be deposited, and where its best exposures 

 would be exhibited. It is at the point where a long, narrow valley 

 with precipitous banks and continuous downward slope, opens out 

 into a wide alluvial plain at a lower level. It is here that the 

 rocky floor of the river suddenly descends to ocean level and even 

 sinks below it, forming the limit of tidewater. Thus any drift 

 material which the flooded river swept down its channel would 

 here, upon meeting tidewater, be in great part deposited. Large 

 boulders which had been rolled down the inclined floor of the 

 upper valley would here stop in their course, and all be heaped up 

 with the coarser gravel by the more slowly flowing water except 

 sn<3h few as cakes of floating ice could carr^^ oceanward. On the 

 other hand the finer gravel and sand would be deposited farther 

 down the river. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES 01' PUlLAtlfiLi'fllA. SOl 



This is precisely what occurs at Trenton. The material, Which 

 at Philadelphia is generally- fine, grows coarser as the river is 

 ascended, until at Trenton we find often immense boulders im- 

 bedded at all angles in the gravel. Moreover, the river has here 

 cut entirely through the gravel down to the rock, exposing at 

 one place a cliff of gravel 50 feet high. At Philadelphia, on the 

 other hand, as we have seen, the river still flows on the top of the 

 gravel. This fact may also be accounted for. Having heaped up a 

 mass of detritus in the old river channel as an obstruction 

 at the mouth of the gorge, the river, so soon as its volume dimin- 

 ished, would immediatel}' begin wearing away a new channel for 

 itself down to ocean level. This would be readil}^ accomplished 

 through the loose material, and would be stopped only when 

 rock was reached. On the other hand, that gravel wliich had 

 been deposited at places farther down the river where its bottom 

 was below ocean level, would remain un-eroded or nearly so. Wheii 

 the river had attained the level of the ocean there would be no 

 occasion to cut a deep channel, and it would therefore flow on top 

 of the gravel which it had deposited. It is necessary that this 

 point should be understood, as other geologists have brouglit for- 

 ward various theories to explain the high bank of gravel at Tren- 

 ton. The fact of the river having cut through the gravel at 

 Trenton, while at Philadelphia it flows upon it, is due to the con- 

 figuration of the rock floor of the river, which at Trenton rises 

 above ocean level, and at Philadelphia lies nearl}^ 100 feet below it. 



In addition to the exposure upon the river bank, where the 

 whole depth of the formation is seen, the long railroad cuts 

 made by the Pennsjdvania R. R. at Trenton, afford excellent 

 sections of the gravel. It exhibits the distinctive characteristics 

 of a true river deposit, and is very different from the gravels which 

 are found at higher levels. It contains no clay;. its pebbles are 

 made of the rocks of the river bed and are flattened, and the strati- 

 fication of the whole deposit is well seen in the alternations of 

 sand and gravel. It extends several miles back from the present 

 river, covering the low ground along the Assunpink Creek, and 

 indicating the existence here of a former bay or arm of the Dela- 

 ware. This bay was shaped somewhat like a horseshoe, which had 

 one extremity in Trenton at the hill above the canal, and which 

 washed the base of the hill north of the Assunpink Creek, and, 

 extending about three miles back from Trenton, and sweeping 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



aronncT the " Bear Swamp," had its other extremity near the 

 house of Di\ C. C. Abbott, below Chambei'sburg. This village was 

 under water. Another ba}^ extended up the valley of Crosswicks 

 Creek. Boulders of Champlaiii age lie upon the Tertiary" gravels 

 which form the ancient banlv. 



From the extent of the Trenton gravel in this vicinity, state- 

 ments have been published that it covered the whole southern part 

 of the state, and that at the time of its deposition the Delaware 

 Rivel' emptied into the ocean at Trenton. It is evident tliat the 

 distinction between the very different gravels of this region has 

 not been perceived. Careful examination will show the great dis- 

 similai'it}^ between the Trenton gravel and such gravels as occur 

 at Princeton Junction and interior New Jersej^, which are in 

 great part of Pliocene age, and will prove that it is confined to 

 the ancient river bed. 



The presence of very large boulders on the river bank at Tren- 

 ton has led some geologists to suppose that the formation was a 

 glacial moraine. The occasional though ver}' rare examples of 

 scratched pebbles and polished boulders, which the flood had evi- 

 dently carried down from the moraine material north of Belvidere. 

 have been brought forward as supporting this theory. Yet the 

 absence of till and of angular masses of rock, and generally of 

 materials foreign to the Delaware Valley, when regarded in con- 

 nection with what we have shown to be the general characters of 

 the formation, can not be explained upon this theorj^ The char- 

 acter of the river banks along the valley render the presence of a 

 glacier at Trenton extremely improbable. These show no marks 

 of glacial action. We have, moreover, already shown that 

 the Trenton gravel is more recent than the deposits of Cham- 

 plain age, and that, lying in a channel cut within them, it is 

 the most recent of all the gravels. Clearly the Delaware Valley 

 and the channel of the river were excavated in a time previous to 

 the deposition of the Trenton gravel. The channel subsequently 

 having been filled up by this gravel, the diminished river still 

 later has cut a new channel either completel.y through it, as at 

 Trenton, or partially, as at Philadelphia. It is probable that 

 slight undulations of the level of the coast have aided in producing 

 these changes. 



Before describing the human relics found in the Trenton gravel, 

 there are several facts bearing upon its origin and age which it 

 will be well to consider. 




1880.] NATURAfi SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 30o 



It has been noticed that from Trenton to Philadelphia the creeks 

 flowing into the river Delaware have a steep south bank, while the 

 ground north of the creek is flat. The writer finds that the flat 

 ground north of the creek is made of Trenton gravel, while the 

 southern bank is made of older formations which have been for- 

 merl}^ cut awaj^ by water action coming from the north. Thus, 

 the steep south bank of the Neshaminy is made of " Philadelphia 

 red gravel " of Champlain age, while a flat plain of Trenton gravel 

 lies south of the creek. The same configuration of the banks of 

 creeks on the New Jersey shore has been noticed by Prof. Cook. 

 By assuming that the river at the time of the deposition of this 

 gravel was of larger volume than now, this fact is of ready explana- 

 tion. The southern bank of the creek, often of Cretaceous or 

 Tertiarj" strata, in each case formed the shore of the ancient river, 

 and was worn away into a steep bank by the flood from the north. 

 Similar in cause and effect are the present banks of the Delaware, 

 which are steep on the outside of each curve of the river, and flat 

 and covered with recent alluvium on the inside. 



Another fact showing river action is the frequent occurrence of 

 exposures of " flow and plunge structure " in this gravel. In these 

 the la3^ers are seen to dip up stream, as would be expected by 

 downward flowing water. It is interesting to find, on the other 

 hand, that the same structure in the Tertiary gravels, both of 

 Pennsylvania and New Jersey, shows layers dipping southeast, as 

 though deposited by incoming oceanic tides. 



Another instance of the fluviatile character of the Trenton gravel 

 is found in the peculiar topography which it sometimes exhibits. 

 Frequently, instead of forming a flat plain, it forms higher ground 

 close to the present river channel than it does near its ancient 

 bank. Moreover, not only does the ground .thus slope downward 

 on retreating from the river, but the boulders become smaller and 

 less abundant. Both of these facts are in accordance wdth the 

 laws of river deposits. In a time of flood the rapidly flowing- 

 water in the main channel, bearing detritus, is checked by the more 

 quiet waters at the side of the river, and is forced to deposit its 

 gravel and boulders as a kind of bank. 



In determining the comparative age of the Trenton gravel, a guide 

 may be found in the amount of its erosion. In this respect a 

 marked contrast exists between this and more ancient gravels. 

 Unlike the land covered bj' older surface formations, that covered 




o04 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 1880.] 



by the Trenton gravel is remarkably level and free from hillocks 

 or ravines. The change in topography may be well seen in the 

 neighborhood of Trenton, and can be noticed almost anywhere 

 along the valley. This fact alone would indicate a more recent 

 age than that of the clays and gravels of the Champlain epoch. 

 This difference is much more marked when comparison is made 

 Avith the oceanic gravels. 



The actual time necessary for the Delaware to cut down to the 

 rock through 50 feet of this gravel at Trenton is by no means 

 great. Numerous facts have been adduced by geological writers 

 and by engineers to show how rapidly a stream of water can wear 

 through loose gravel material. When it is noted that the gravel 

 cliff at Trenton has been made, not b}" a straight downward cut, 

 but by a side wearing away as at a Ijank, and when it is remem- 

 liered that the erosive power of the Delaware was formerly very 

 much greater than it is now, it will be conceded that the presence 

 of the clitf at Trenton will not necessarily infer its high antiquity. 

 From what is known of the action of running water upon gravel, 

 it is thought that the time necessary to produce the erosion now 

 observed might be reckoned b}^ hundreds rather than by thou- 

 sands of 3'ears. While the gravel was of course formed in a 

 previous time, the rapid action of the flood which deposited it, 

 shown in many places by the character of the gravel, indicates 

 that the time necessary for its deposition need not have been long. 



Having now shown that the Trenton gravel is a true river 

 deposit of modern age, it will be of interest to inquire how such a 

 flood as we have proved to exist could have originated. No flood 

 within the historical epoch has been known to at all approach in 

 magnitude that which deposited the Trenton gravel. No boulders 

 of the size found in and upon that gravel are ever carried down 

 the river by recent ice-cakes. In fact, at Trenton and below, the 

 boulders of this gravel are often much larger than any in the 

 Champlain gravel of that part of the valley. 



We have seen that at the time of the Trenton gravel flood, the 

 lower part of Philadelphia, the whole of Bristol and Tullytown, and 

 almost all of Trenton were submerged. That the climate was then 

 cold is indicated not only by the suggestion that there were then prob- 

 ably very large masses of bouldei'-bearing ice floating in the river, 

 but also by the fact that, as the writer is informed by Dr. C. C. 

 Abbott, bones of Arctic animals (walrus, reindeer, mastodon). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 305 



often rounded by attrition, have been found in this gravel. 

 Although the Trenton gravel has none of the features of a moraine, 

 it is true that the cliff at the base of Riverview Cemetery, holding 

 immense boulders, has the appearance of having been deposited 

 b}' glacial waters. At other places, the boulders resting upon the 

 sand overlying the gravel suggests the grounding of large ice- 

 cakes derived from some mass of ice large enough to be called a 

 glacier. 



It is difficult to imagine an origin for such a flood as we have 

 described other than the melting of a glacier. We have shown 

 that the flood was not an inroad from the sea, but that it 

 came down the valle}'. No rain-storms of modern experience 

 could have supplied such an amount of water. To call the time 

 of this flood a '■ Pluvial Epoch," will be of little assistance, since 

 no origin for such extraordinary rains is suggested, except under 

 a very different climate, or by evaporation from a melting glacier. 



Yet such a glacier cannot be the great glacier of the Glacial epoch. 

 That was the glacier which in its melting deposited the brick-clay 

 and red gravel which Tve have shown to be much older than the 

 Trenton gravel. It must have been, if a glacier at all, another 

 and more recent one whose melting caused the flood which formed 

 this gravel. This last glacial flood flowed in a channel excavated 

 through the deposits of the first glacial period. 



It appears, then, that there is evidence of a Second Glacial 

 Period — a period in which was deposited the last of the gravels, 

 and which has but lately passed away. From the limited extent 

 of its deposits it is inferred that the second glacier was much 

 smaller than the fti-st, and that its southern extremity was con- 

 fined to the valley. A second glacial period is recognized in 

 Europe under the name of the Reindeer Period. 



It is thought that the hypothesis of a second and more local 

 glacier, long subsequent in age to the first great glacier, will 

 explain all the facts observed. The Trenton gravel cannot be 

 assigned to the first glacial period except by assuming that there 

 have been no river gravels deposited since that time ; — an assump- 

 tion which can hardly be maintained. Some European archje- 

 ologists have held that the Palseolithic Era, the era of the river 

 gravels, is antecedent to the Reindeer Period, the period of the 

 cave-men. No such distinction has been observed on the Delaware. 

 Should future researches show that a separate and second glacial 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



epocli cannot be proved in America, the facts here observed will 

 indicate a much more recent date for the disappearance of the 

 great glacier than has been assigned to it. The period of the 

 Trenton gravel flood, whether contemporaneous with a glacier or 

 not, is the period of the last geological deposits here known- the 

 recent mud-flats being alone excepted. 



We have now glanced at the characters of the Trenton gravel, 

 and have indicated, so far as the facts at hand allow, its position, 

 origin, and relative age. 



It is in this gravel that the writer's friend, Dr. Charles 

 C. Abbott, of Trenton, has made the interesting discovery of stone 

 implements of human workmanship, which, in their shape and 

 characters, are quite unlike those of the Red Indians of the Atlantic 

 coast.^ He has found them imbedded at various depths in the ap- 

 parently undisturbed gravel of the cliff at Riverview Cemetery 

 and in other places near Trenton. They are of palseolithic type, 

 and differ from Indian stone implements by being larger, ruder, 

 and made from a different material. They are composed of gray 

 argillite, a rock which is found in place farther up the river, 

 and which is a Triassic shale altered and hardened bj- the heat 

 from adjacent trap dykes. They occur in positions which render 

 it extremely probable that they belong to the same age as that of 

 the deposition of the gravel, or at least to an age when it was 

 overflowed b}' the flooded river. There are two points which 

 offer strong evidence in that direction. 



The first is the fact that modern Indian implements, "neoliths," 

 are never found associated with these " palaioliths " in the gravel. 

 Although abundant on the surface, it is stated that thej^ never 

 occur at a depth of more than a few inches in undisturbed soil, 

 while the palteoliths are found often ten or more feet from the sur- 

 face. This fact alone argues a different age for the two classes of 

 implements. 



The second fact is that when found below the surface of the 

 ground, these palffioliths always occur in the Trenton gravel and 

 never in older gravels. The writer, in company with Dr. Abbott, 

 has gone over much of the ground where the implements occurred ; 

 and it was very interesting to find that it was onl^^ within the 

 limits of the Trenton gravel, previously traced out by the writer, 



^ V. Tenth and Eleventh Annual Keports of the Peabody Museum of 

 American Archaeology. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 30t 



that Dr. Abbott had found implements below the surface. Beyond 

 the terrace of older gravels the pala^oliths sometimes occur with 

 implements of the modern tj'pe, but are not imbedded at any 

 depth. In Pennsylvania, moreover, the writer has found similar 

 pahieoliths in the region covered by the Trenton gravel and in that 

 region onh'. Here, then, is the strongest probability, even if the 

 implements were found upon the surface only, that they belonged 

 to and were of coeval deposition with the river gravel. 



The implements of argillite found at the lowest depth in undis- 

 turbed gravel have been generally decided by archa-ologists to be 

 of human origin. It is, however, true that there are many sharp 

 fragments of this rock in the Trenton gravel which are of natural 

 origin, and that pebbles and partially rounded fragments of the 

 same rock are frequent. The writer has found several fragments 

 of argillite in the gravel exposed at the cut near Wheatsheaf 

 Station, Bucks Co., Pa., which, whether they were artificial or 

 natural, it was impossible to determine. 



All the evidence that has been gathered points to the conclu- 

 sion that at the time of the Trenton gravel flood, man in a rude 

 state lived upon the banks of the ancient Delaware. He may have 

 been in the habit of spearing fish and seals with spears pointed by 

 his rough stone implements, and these having been dropped into 

 the flood may have sunk into the loose and shifting gravel. The 

 weathering upon the implements is so slight as to afford no evi- 

 dence of their high antiquity. Many of the paljeoliths found in 

 the river gravels of Europe, are of very similar tjqie. As a rule, 

 probably the implements of the Trenton gravel are somewhat more 

 rude. The writer is informed that even more primitive forms are 

 now in constant use among some of our Western Indian tribes. 



It is interesting to find, as pointed out by archaeologists, that 

 until lately the Eskimos have used stone implements quite as rude 

 and similar in appearance to those found in the Trenton and other 

 river gravels, and it has been suggested that that race, now living 

 in a climate and under conditions perhaps similar to those once 

 existing on the Delaware, may have some kinship with the pre- 

 Indian people of this river. It ma}' be that an Eskimo race, living 

 here at the time of the flooded Delaware, were driven north by 

 the coming of the Red Indians. If future archaeological work 

 shows this surmise to be correct, the writer suggests that the 

 period of the Trenton gravel and of this palaeolithic people, — a period 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



perhaps following a second glacial age, — might appropriately be 

 called The Eskimo Period. This name, derived fi-om a higher order 

 of beings than that which gave the name Beindeer Period., is much 

 more suggestive and is probabl}' of full3^ as wide application as 

 the latter name, A term already in use, the Palaeolithic Era, is 

 also convenient. 



It has been held that the occurrence of palaeoliths at Trenton 

 offered evidence of a very high antiquity of man in America, and, 

 the gravel being considered as a glacial moraine, that man's exist- 

 ence was carried back to interglacial and even pregiacial times. ' 

 As we have seen, the geological investigations along the Delaware 

 Yallej", described in this paper, throw quite a new light upon this 

 subject. They show that the implement-bearing gravel is of post- 

 glacial age, and is a river deposit of comparativeh^ recent forma- 

 tion ; and that neither in the gravels of the Champlain epoch nor in 

 de])Osits of any previous age have any traces of man been 

 discovered. The evidence appears to indicate the origin of 

 man at a time which, geologically considered at least, is recent. 



The actual age of the Trenton gravel, and the consequent date to 

 which the antiquity of man on the Delaware should be assigned, is 

 a question which geological data alone are insufficient to solve. 

 The only clue, and that a most unsatisfactory one, is afforded bv 

 calculations based upon the amount of erosion. This, like all geo- 

 logical considerations, is relative rather than absolute. The same 

 reasoning that showed that the modern river channel might have 

 lieen excavated in hundreds rather than thousands of years, will 

 indicate that no great length of time is necessary' to produce all 

 the surface features of the Trenton gravel. While the writer may 

 venture to express the opinion that there is no reason geologically 

 for carrying the age of this gravel and the antiquity of man on the 

 Delaware farther back than a very few thousand years at the most, 

 lie is fully aware that any close approximation can safely be 

 arx'ived at only by extended comparison with other river gravels and 

 by a much more complete series of observations than have yet 

 been possible. Ethnological considerations, which make paljco- 

 lithic man to antedate the oldest races of the mound-builders, will 

 Jiave a bearing upon this question. Meteorologists ma^^ show that 



1 It will be remembered that Sir Charles Lyell, in his Principles of Geol- 

 ogy, 11th Ed., vol. 1, p. 286, conjectures the period of the gi'eat glacier to 

 have been about 200,000 years ago. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



a cold climate and a period of a flood far larger than any of late ex- 

 perience may require a long lapse of time. These considerations 

 are not within the scope of this paper. It has been the aim of the 

 writer to define the antiquit}' of man in relation to geological rather 

 than to historical events. If, in showing that the Eskimo period is 

 the last of the geological ages, it does not necessarily follow that it 

 is by anj' means recent, it must be remembered, on the other hand, 

 that its high antiquity is not proven by the facts thus far 

 observed. 



The conclusions to which the facts seem to point may briefly be 

 summarized as follows : — 



1. That the Trenton gravel, the only gravel in which implements 

 occur, is a true river deposit of post-glacial age, and the most 

 recent of all the gravels of the Delaware valley. 



2. That the palteoliths found in it really belong to and are a 

 part of the gravel, and that they indicate the existence of man in 

 a rude state at a time when the flooded river flowed on top of this 

 gravel. 



3. That the data obtained do not necessaril}^ prove, geologically 

 considered, an extreme antiquit}- of man in Eastern America. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Note on Philadelphite — a new mineral. — Mr Lewis gave a pre- 

 limiiiaiy description of a new verniiculite from near Wayne 

 Station on the Germantown Railroad, wliicli he proposed to call 

 ''■ Philadelphite." It occurs in plates of a brown color and talcose 

 lustre, existing as seams in an altered hornblende rock. When 

 heated, it exfoliates with great force to man}' times its original size 

 and becomes of a coppery bronze color. It was stated that while 

 exfoliating, it was able to lift over 50,000 times its own weight. It 

 had a hygroscopic power nearl}^ as great as that of chloride of 

 calcium. Its optical characters and its chemical composition were 

 given. 



Analysis of Philadelphite. — Mr. Reuben Haines contributed 

 the following analyses of Philadelphite. 



Specific gravity (determined in alcohol of 95 p. c.) 2.78-2.96. 



I. XL 



SiO^ 39.06 38.52 



re.,03 20.59 20.01 



AI2O3 14.75 14.82 



Fe,0 2.04 2.04 



CaO .99 1.08 



MgO 11.49 11.32 



MnO (traces) .... .... 



Li20 (traces) .... .... 



K,0 6.89 6.61 



Na,.0 .90 .64 



H,0 4.27 4.27 



F (traces) .... .... 



100.98 99.31 



Per cent, of hygroscopic water in I, 3.12 p. c. ; in II, 3.43 p. c. 



In these analyses the mineral was dried t.t 100° C, the hygro- 

 scopic water not being included in the determinations. Owing to 

 its very hygroscopic nature, it was found very diflicult to obtain 

 its weight at 100° C. accurately. It gains rapidly in weight while 

 being weighed upon the balance. Examples of its hygroscopic 

 power were given. The analyses were made l)y dissolving the 

 mineral in concentrated hydrochloric acid. Iron was estimated 

 volumetrically and the alkalies hj Smith's method effusion. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



December 22, 1879. 



THE SO-CALLED EMERY-ORE FEOM CHELSEA, BETHEL TOWNSHIP, 

 DELAWARE COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA. 



BY F. A. GENTH, JR. 



At the November meeting of this Section, Dr. Cardeza called 

 the attention of the members to a garnet rock, mined as emery- 

 ore, at Chelsea, Bethel Township, Delaware Co., Pa., and subse- 

 »iuently left it with me for analysis. 



The rock is composed almost exclusively of rounded rhombic- 

 ilodecahedral grains of red garnet, varjdng in size from a fraction 

 of a millimetre to over one centimetre ; also a little quartz, biotite, 

 muscovite, and magnetite. It is very friable, being easily crushed. 



Its fracture is uneven, excepting in some of the larger grains, 

 which are so much intersected by mica, that, when struck by a 

 hammer, they break into angular fragments, apparently showing a 

 crystalline cleavage. Specific gravity = 4.028. 



An analysis of the smaller and purer grains, obtained by wash- 

 ing and picking out, gave : 



SiO, = 41.11 



Fe.p3 = 2.11 



Al.Os = 21.60 



FeO ^ 25.86 



MnO = 2.22 



CaO = 1.89 



MgO = 5.41 



100.20 

 which proves it to be an ordinary iron-alumina garnet. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Some Neiv Mineral Localities. — Mr. Joseph Willcox announced 

 the following new mineral localities : 



Burgess, Ontario, Canada, on the north shore of Rideau Lake : 

 Phlogopite, Green Pj-roxene, Apatite, Zircon. North Elnisley, 

 near Otty Lake, Canada : Phlogopite, in large and perfect crys- 

 tals. Bedford, Trontenac Co., Out., Can. : Apatite (unusually 

 fine). Black Pyroxene, Scapolite. Near Westport, Ontario, Can. : 

 Black Tourmaline. Russel, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. : Steatite 

 pseudomorphous after Tremolite and Scapolite ; Black Tour- 

 maline, with modified terminations. Macon Co., N. C. : Crystals 

 of Biotite in Muscovite. 



All the above were found in fine specimens, well crj^stallized. 

 Specimens were exhibited to the Section. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



ON PHILADELPHITE (Sp. Nov.). 

 BY HENRY CARYILL LEAYIS. 



The mineral to which the above title has been applied was found 

 by the writer four years ago, in what was then a quarry of horn- 

 blendic gneiss, close to the boundary of the Twentj^-second Ward, 

 Philadelphia. The locality is on Germantown Avenue, at the 

 bridge crossing of the Germantown and Norristown Railroad, 

 near Waj-ne Station. The quarry is now walled u^d, and is used 

 as a coal and lime yard. 



Geologically, the locality is just at the base of the terrace of 

 metamorphic rocivs which bounds the drift formations underlying 

 the greater part of the city. Quaternarj^ clays, boulders of the 

 Champlain period, and tertiary gravels appear within a hundred 

 feet of the quarry, and the waters of those different epochs have 

 successively eroded the hill rising above it. This hill, here called 

 Neglejf's or Logan's Hill, about 225 feet in height, is part of the 

 same hill or " Upland Terrace,'' which, trending nearl}' northeast 

 and southwest, has been traced continuously from here into Mary- 

 land, on the one side, and across New Jersey on the other, and 

 Avhich, though composed of quite different rocks in different places, 

 forms throughout, the boundary of the post-jurassic formations.' 



The rock at this place is a hard black hornblendic gneiss, subject 

 to decomposition in its upper portions. It is well exposed in the 

 cut on "Waj-ne Street, where numerous minerals occur, and it is 

 the same which is quarried at Frankford and at MoKinney's 

 quarry, both noted mineral localities. In its altered state it 

 crumbles easil}-, and when heated exfoliates. In this condition, 

 after being crushed in a mill between heavj^ iron rollers, it is 

 sometimes used as a building sand. 



The mineral here described as PhiladeJphife belongs to the ver- 

 miculite group of hj'drous silicates. It occurs both disseminated 

 in scales throughout the gangue-rock, and also in seams, an inch or 

 more in thickness and many feet long. Associated with it in the 

 same quarry are crystals of sphene, epidote and hornblende, and 

 specks of chalcopyrite. It has been found in small quantities also 

 at Waj'ue Street, at McKinney's quarry, and in Germantown. 



^V. Proc. Miu. and Geolog. Section Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., Nov., 1878. 

 21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Since most of the vermiciilites occur in serpentinous or chloritic 

 formations, it is to be noted that no such rocks occur here or in 

 the vicinit}'. The mineral is probablj' derived orio-iually from 

 hornblende. 



Physical Characters, — Hardness, 1..3 ; Specific gravit}', 2.80 

 (taken in alcohol and referred to water). Lustre pearly. Color, 

 by reflected light, bronze ; by transmitted light, brownish red, and 

 in A'er}^ thin laminae, brownish yellow. Opaque, except in thin 

 pieces. Streak brownish yellow. Laminae unelastic, readily 

 flexible, tough, not brittle. Feel greasy. 



CrystaUographic Characters. — Monoelinic. Cleavage ; basal, emi- 

 nent ; also, occasional!}', a cleavage parallel to the diagonals. 

 Striations crossing at about 90°, caiising the mineral to break 

 into nearly rectangvilar fragments, are sometimes observed, and 

 these are parallel to the plane of the optic axes and to the diagonals 

 of the rhomb. No triangular striations as in Jefferisite. Plates 

 often contorted and wrinkled. Twin crystals frequent, observable 

 by polarized light. Optically biaxial. Double refraction strong, 

 negative. Optic-axial angle, 31°20'-39°30' ; generally 3T°±:. 

 Crj-stals sometimes nearly 2 inches wide and \ inch high. The 

 hyperbolas are well defined in the polariscope, and the angle of 

 their divergence is more constant than in some of the other ver- 

 miculites. Twinning produces variations in the angle.^ 



Pyrognostic Characters. — In the closed tube it gives off water and 

 exfoliates with great force, in a direction perpendicular to its base, 

 to ten times its original volume. Upon exfoliation it becomes of a 

 bright copper color and takes a metallic lustre. It also becomes 

 brittle and more opaque. The exfoliated mineral has a far more 

 distinct and frequent secondary vertical cleavage than it has before 

 exfoliation, and the basal cleavage is also easier. It shows strong 

 double refraction in the polariscope, and has an optical divergence 

 of about the same amount as that of the unignited mineral (30° to 

 37°). The h^'perbolas are extremely ill-defined, and no exact 

 measurements could be taken. It is yellow b}- transmitted light. 

 It forms a fine object under the microscope by reflected light. 

 The fine copper color gained on exfoliation is characteristic, dis- 

 tinguishing it from the other vermiculites. The color is obtained 

 whether it is heated suddenly in the flame, or slowly in an air-bath 

 to exfoliation. Upon long-continued ignition in a platinum cru- 



1 T'. Prof. Cooke's Paper on the Vermiculites, Proc. Amer. Acad., 

 Boston, 1874, 35. 




ISSO.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



cible, heated without access of air, it becomes a steel-gray color, its 

 iron having been reduced. Before the blowpipe it gives the violet 

 flame of potash and fuses to a black magnetic globule, which does 

 not intumesce when further heated. 



With the fluxes it reacts for silica and iron. It is readily dis- 

 solved by hot sulphuric acid, the pure white silica being left in the 

 original shape of the mica. It is dissolved in hydrochloric acid 

 upon long digestion . 



Chemical Composition. — In the investigation of the chemical 

 composition of Philadelphite the writer has had the valuable 

 advice of his friend, Prof. F. A. Genth, of the University of 

 Pennsylvania. The method used in the estimation of vanadium 

 is entirely due to him. The writer is also indebted to his friend, 

 Mr, Reuben Haines, of Germantown, for two analyses, and for 

 some interesting experiments. 



Of the four analyses given below, Numbers I and II are by Mr. 

 Haines; Nos. Ill and IV by the writer. Nos. I and II were 

 made upon the pulverized mineral, previously dried in an air-bath 

 at 100° C; the hygroscopic water, amounting to over 3 p. c, not 

 being included in the determinations. " In both the anal3^ses the 

 sample was dissolved in concentrated HCl, and the Si02 purified 

 by digestion with HCl. The Fe and Al were precipitated togetlier 

 by NH4HO and the Fe titrated by permanganate. The ferrous 

 oxide was found by dissolving the weighed mineral in sulphuric 

 acid in a closed flask from which the air was expelled by boiling 

 with sodic carbonate, and titrating as before. The magnesia was 

 weighed as pyrophosphate and the alkalies were separated by 

 Smith's method of fusion, and were determined by platinic chloride, 

 controlling the result by ignition of the platinic salt in hydrogen 

 and weighing as metallic platinum. Tlie combined H,0 is an 

 average of the results of experiments Nos. IV and VI (given 

 below) taken at a red heat on bottom of crucible." 



Analyses Xos. Ill and IV were made upon the ignited mineral, 

 this being considered its most constant state. The atomic water 

 was determined separately, and the analysis of tlie anhydrous 

 mineral reduced when the percentage of water was added. The 

 ignited mineral being v\ith difficulty soluble in acid, it was decom- 

 posed by fusion with sodic carbonate for anal^'sis. After repeated 

 evaporation of the silica with HCl, it was found still to contain 

 titanic acid, which was extracted by evaporation with concen- 

 trated H,iS04 and precipitated by dilution and boiling. Addi- 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



tional titanic acid was separated upon boiling the filtrate from SiO,„ 

 after reduction with H-S. In one analysis titanic acid was sepa- 

 rated from SiOoby volatilizing the latter with HF, dissolving the 

 residue in HsSOi, diluting and boiling. Ferrous oxide Avas deter- 

 mined in the air-dried mineral as in analyses I and II. Iron and 

 alumina were estimated by precipitation b}' boiling with sodic 

 acetate in a neutral solution, dissolving in HCl, reprecipitating 

 with NH4HO, igniting and weighing together. In the filtrate 

 MnO was precipitated by bromine and ignited. 



The following method was employed for the detection of vana- 

 dium. 80 grammes of impure mineral were mixed with 90 grammes 

 of sodic carbonate and 100 grammes of sulphur, and the whole 

 heated slowly in a Hessian crucible covered by charcoal until 

 partially fused. It was then digested in warm water, filtered, and 

 to the filtrate dilute IICl was added, precipitating a copious 

 heavy flocculent brown mass of the sulphides of vanadium, copper, 

 cobalt and nickel. The precipitate was washed, ignited and evap- 

 orated with nitric acid, when it gave a red residue. This was fused 

 with a mixture of sodic carbonate and sodic nitrate, and extracted 

 with water in order to separate the oxides of copper, cobalt and 

 nickel. Solid ammonic chloride was now added to the aqueous 

 solution, when vanadate of ammonia was precipitated. Upon 

 ignition it was changed to vanadic oxide, and was found to be 

 pure, giving all the characteristic reactions. 



For the estimation of vanadium the following method was em- 

 ployed. 4^ grammes of the pulverized ignited mica were fused 

 with a mixture of 3 parts NaCOj and 1 part NaNOs, the mass ex- 

 tracted with H.O, filtered, and the filtrate digested with HiS. 

 Traces of CuS and FeS were filtered off, and the silica eliminated 

 by evaporation to dryness and addition of dilute H2SO4. II2S was 

 again added, giving a blue solution. After driving off" the H,,S by 

 heat, the vanadic acid present was estimated volumetrically by the 

 addition of a measured portion of a standard solution of per- 

 manganate of potash. 



Magnesia was determined as pyrophosphate, and the alkalies b}' 

 means of Smith's method. Phosphoric acid was precipitated as 

 phosplioraolybdate of ammonia, and weiglied as pyrophosphate of 



magnesia. 



On account of the remarkable h3'groscopic powers of Philadel- 

 phite, great difficult}^ was experienced in the estimation of the com- 

 bined water. Nearly one-half of the water in the air-dried mineral 




1880.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



sn 



is h^'groscopic, and may be driven off eitlier by long exposure over 

 sulphuric acid in a desiccator, or by drying in an air-bath at 100° 

 C. The percentage of water given in the analj'ses represents 

 approximately the amount of water in the mineral after such 

 desiccation. 



Spec. grav. (taken in alcohol of 95 p. c.) 2.78-2.96. 



SiO, 



Al,,03 



Fe.,03 



Fe^O 



MnO 



MgO 



CaO 



Na,0 



Li.b 



K2O 



F 



H2O 



H^-gr 

 Spec. 

 2.80. 



SiO,, 

 TiO,, 



Ai,d, 



Fe^Og 



V2O3 



FeO 



MnO 



NiO| 



CoO) 



CuO 



MgO 



CaO 



Xa,0 



Li.,0 



K.2O 



PO, 



CI 



H,S04 



H,0 



I. 



39.06 

 14.75 

 20.59 

 2.04 

 trace 

 11.49 

 .99 

 .90 

 trace 

 6.89 

 trace 

 4.27 



II. 



38.52 

 14.82 

 20.01 

 2.04 

 trace 

 11.32 

 1.08 

 .64 

 trace 

 6.61 

 trace 

 4.27 



Mean. 



38.79 



14.78 



20.30 



2.04 



11.40 

 1.03 



.77 



6.75 

 4.27 



Quantivalent ratio. 



2.587 

 .861 

 .761 

 .056 



.570 

 .037 

 .025 



.143 



.474 



2.587 

 1.622 



5.45 

 3.42 



.831 



1.75 



.474 1.— 



100.98 99.31 100.13 

 oscopic water in I, 3 12 ; in II, 3.43. 

 grav. (taken in alcohol of 84 p. c on the air-dried mineral) 



III. 



35.94 



1.30 



15.23 



19.48 



.37 



2.09 



.46 



trace 



trace 

 11.41 

 1.38 

 1.42 

 trace 

 6.52 

 trace 

 trace 

 trace 

 4.34 



lY. 



35.52 



.77 



16.32 



19.43 



.36 



2.28 



.55 



.06 



.08 



11.72 



1.54 



.38 

 ti'ace 

 7.11 



.11 

 trace 

 trace 

 4.34 



Mean. 



35.73 



1.03 



15.77 



19.46 



.37 



2.18 



.50 



.06 



.08 



11.56 



1.46 



.90 



6.81 

 .11 



4.34 



2.43 



5.05 



Quantivalent ratio. 

 2.38 

 .05 

 .91 ) 



.73 V 1.65 3.43 

 .01 ) 

 .06 ^ 

 .01 



5 



3 



.58 

 .05 

 .03 



.14 



.87 



1.80 



.48 



.48 1 1 



99.94 100.63 100.45 

 Hygroscopic water in III and IV, 3.24. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



From both these pair of analyses we have the ratio 



R: R : Si : H = 2 : 3 : 5 : 1 and R R : Si : H= 1 : 1 : i. The ratio 

 of bases to silica is 1:1, and for sesquioxides to protoxides. 



vr II 



S : R = 2 : 1. 



Philadelphite dried at 100 ^C appears to be a unisilieate, the 

 water not being basic. 



The formula ma}' perhaps be written 



£.: \\ O. \\ r 2. (K ^^-^"l -L 3. Q f S2 ^^ "(I,, J- 2 „., 

 •^- II ^-i II L \^>i' -i^J ^ o P K^^- 1 ^~ )j^ ^ 5 '^4 



The general symbol would be, 



11 VI 



R^jiVi, O20. Sio- 2 HjO. 

 The water will be regarded as water of cr3'stallization. Prof. 

 Cooke has shown the close chemical relation between the anhydrous 

 vermiculites and biotite. A like result is brought out by the fol- 

 lowing analysis of ignited Philadelphite. The analysis is a mean 

 of the two analyses of the anhydrous mineral which formed 

 analyses Nos. Ill and lY of the mineral dried at 100° C. 



100.12 



II VI 



Here R : ?^ : Si ^ 1 : 2 : 3, the ratio of a typical biotite. Anal- 

 gous as the anhydrous mineral is to biotite in its formula, it has 

 been shown that physically and optically the two minerals are 

 quite dissimilar, and it is not proven that they have any necessary 

 connection. It is by no means a hydrous biotite in the sense that 

 margarodite is a hydrous muscovite, in which case the characters, 

 optical and phj'sical, are identical. Such hydrous biotites occur 

 in several places in the vicinity of Philadelphia, in a partially 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPfflA. 319 



altered micaceous gneiss, in which the muscovite has become 

 margarodite, and the orthoclase become white and crumbling. 

 Such mica exfoliates slightly when heated, is uniaxial, fusible 

 with difficult}^, and might be called Hijdr-ohiotite for convenience. 

 It frequentl}' occurs enclosed in cr^'stals of margarodite, or in 

 muscovite passing into margarodite. 



Hygroscopic Properties. — In the determination of water in its 

 different states in PhiladeliDhite, the principal difiicult}^ was on 

 account of the strong hygroscopic properties possessed by the 

 mineral. After the water has been expelled by heat or desiccation, 

 it is rapidly absorbed again from the air, if exposed. Upon the 

 balance, the dried mineral gains so rapidly that it was found 

 necessary while weighing to enclose it in corked tubes. It appears 

 to absorb water with the avidit}^ of chloride of calcium. Even 

 when enclosed in watch-glasses clasped together and standing in 

 the closed balance-case with dry CaCL, it gains decidedly in weight. 

 The following experiments by Mr. Haines illustrate its h3^gro- 

 scopic properties : 



G-rammes. 



(1) Weight of undried mica, .9935 

 Heated at 100° C. for li hours, .9616 

 Weight after standing; in balance-case with CaCL 



for 3 days, .9915 



Reheated for 3 hours at 100° C, .9580 



Left on balance 20 minutes. Gain in weight, .0070 



Left on balance 2 hours. Total gain in weight, .0085 



(2) Weight of undried mica, 1.1280 

 Heated at 100° C. for 3 hours, 1.0965 

 Left in balance-case with CaCl, for 1 hour, 1.1175 

 Left in balance-case with CaCI.^ for \\ hours, 1.1230 

 Left in balance-case with CaClj for 2^ hours, 1.1250 

 Left in balance-case with CaCl,^ for 2 days, 1.1260 



(3) Undried mica heated at 100° C. for 6^ hours. 



Loss, 2.49 p. c. 



On standing in balance-case with CaCL for 2^ 

 daj'S, regained nearly the whole of its original 

 weight (all but 2 milligrammes). Again 

 heated at 100° for 3 hours, loss of weight, 3.09 p. c. 



These experiments, showing that nearly the total amount of 

 hygroscopic water is regained even in the presence of such an 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



active desiccator as chloride of calcium, indicate a remarkable 

 hygroscopic force in the dried substance ; a property not easy to 

 explain. It will be noticed that this force is exercised much more 

 powerfully immediately after desiccation than it is after a lapse of 

 time. Experiment No. (2) shows that two-thirds of the water is 

 absorbed during the first hour. It has been found that the amount 

 of water in the powdered mineral varies with the hygrometric state 

 of the atmosphere at the time of weighing. It is interesting to 

 note that several of the zeolites, a class of hydrous silicates whose 

 exfoliation by heat is very like that of the vermiculites, also have 

 strong hygroscopic powers, losing and regaining part of their 

 water with ease.^ 



Water of Crystallization — The water in Philadelphite probably 

 exists in three theoretical conditions, viz. : — H^-groscopic water, 

 water of crystallization and water of constitution. The first is 

 driven off by drying at 100° C. or by exposure to dry air over 

 HaSO^; the second by gentle ignition, and is accompanied by ex- 

 foliation ; the third by strong and prolonged ignition. The latter, 

 which probably does not much exceed 1 per cent., and whicli 

 the analyses have shown is not needed with the basic radicals to 

 complete the unisilicate formula, will be regarded with the water 

 of crystallization. The most satisfactory determinations of the 

 water of crystallization have been made by subtracting the hygro- 

 scopic water from the total water. 



The following experiments haA'e been made upon the amount 

 and condition of the water. 



(1). The dry mica, which had been out of the quarry for more 

 than a year, was cut into pieces about 5 mm. square, heated in a 

 platinum crucible to a bright red heat for 25 minutes, cooled in a 

 desiccator over HsSOi for half an hour, and then quickly weighed. 

 It lost 7.58 per cent., which will be regarded as the total amount 

 of water. 



(2). The finely powdered mica holds more water. Different 

 experiments gave:— 7.81 (ignited 10 minutes), 7.89, 7.90, 8.11 

 (ignited 25 minutes), 7.50 (powdered just previous to ignition). 

 Strong ignition of the powdered mica probably volatilizes some of 

 the alkalies in addition to the water. 



>• Damour (Ann. d. Mines, IV, x, 208) shows by an experiment similar to 

 those given above, that the water lost by lieulandite exposed over H^SO^ is 

 all regained in 1^ days. 




1S80.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



(3) The finely powdered mica was divided into two portions, 

 one of which Avas spread out on an open w^atch-glass, the other 

 placed in a crucible. Both were weighed, put in a desiccator over 

 sulphuric acid, and let stand unopened for two months. That in 

 the crucible lost 2.76 per cent, of water. That on the watch-glass 

 had lost 3. 87 per cent. On standing 3 or 4 minutes upon the 

 scale-pan it gained .53 per cent, of water from the air. Upon ex- 

 ]iosure over sulphuric acid in the desiccator 24 hours longer and 

 then being quickly weighed, it was found to have lost 3.99 per 

 cent. It Avas now placed in an air-bath and kept at a temperature 

 of 100° C. for 4 hours. After cooling 15 minutes in the desiccator, 

 it was found to have gained in weiglit about ^ per cent., indicating 

 that the desiccation over sulphuric acid was more complete than 

 that in the air-bath at 100° C. That in the crucible lost on igni- 

 tion 5.97 per cent, of its weight. 



(4). The powdered mica w.as placed in a watch-glass in a desic- 

 cator over sulpliuric acid. 



Aftev27 days it had lost 2.28 per cent. 

 " 40 " " " 2.36 " 



During weighing; it was enclosed in clasped w^atch-glasses. It was 

 now^ put in a crucible and ignited. 



The dried mineral lost on 1st ignition, 5.18 per cent. 

 u u a 2d " 5.36 " 



" " " 3d " 5.47 " 



(5). The following direct determinations of water of crystal- 

 lization w^ere made from the mica, dried in a glass tube, corked 

 while weighing, and then ignited in a crucible. 



Tliis determination is thought to be too high, including some 

 iiygroscopic water, since the mica in a tube cannot be perfectly 

 desiccated. 



A mean of the three determinations of hygroscopic water ab- 

 sorbed over sulphuric acid gives 3.24 per cent., which deducted 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



from the total water, ^.5S per cent., giA^es for water of cr3'stalliza- 

 tion, 4.34 per cent. As will be seen below, a similar amount is de- 

 duced from Mr. Haines' experiments. 



The following experiments by Mr. Haines have been kindly 

 placed at the disposal of the writer. They may be relied upon as 

 having been performed with great care. 



I. The powdered mica is placed in a desiccator over concen- 



trated sulphuric acid. 



(a) Dried 15 days. Loss, 2.69 per cent. 



(b) " 10 " " 2.89 " 



II. The undried mica is heated in an air-bath at 100° C. 



(a) Heated 3 hours. Loss, 3.14 per cent. 



(b) " 3.33 " 



(c) " 3.42 " 



(d) " 51 " " 3.69 " 



Weights. Per cent, of loss. 



III. Weight before heating. 1.0880 



Heated at 100°, 1| hours. 1.0613 2.46 



" " 4i " 1.0598 2.59 

 Over H2SO4 and heated 5 hours 



at 100°. 1.0558 2.96 



Heated 2 hours at 100° and 



cooled over H,SO,. 1.0613 2.46 



"Weight. Total Loss from Inere- p.c. ofp.e. ol 



loss. 100° C. ment total loss fr. 



ofloss. loss. 100°O 



lY. Weight before heating. .9035 



HeatedatlOO° C. for Ihr. .8743 .0292 3.23 



" * 100° " 2 " .8730 .0305 3 37 



" 105° " 2^" .8715 .0320 .0015 .0015 3.54 0.15 



" 119° " 1 " .8705 .0330 .0025 .0010 3.65 0.28 



" full red heat 5 mill. .8350 .0685 .0380 .0355 7.58 4.34 

 " over blast lamp 



1st time. .8270 .0765 .0460 .0080 8.46 5.27 

 " over blast lamp 



2d time. .8280 .0755 .0450 8.35 5.15 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



Weight. Total L.OS? from Incre- p. c. of p. c. of 



loss. 100^ C. ment total loss fr. 



ofloss. loss. 100°r 



V. Weight of iindried mica .S052 



" at 100° C. .7827 .0225 2.79 



" at 125° C. cooled 



for 8 minutes. .7757 .0295 .0070 .0070 3.66 0.89 



" at 150° cooled for 



3 minutes. .7682 .0370 .0145 .0075 4.59 1.85 



" at 170°-175° cool- 

 ed for 4 min. .7682.0370.0145 4.59 1.85 



" 190° cooled for 3 



minutes. .7647 .0405 .0180 .0035 5.03 2.30 



VI. "Weight of undried mica. .9855 



" at 100°C, heated 



several hours. .9615 .0240 2.43 



Below faint red heat. .9445 .0410 .0170 .0170 4.16 1.77 

 Heated to pale red at 



bottom of crucible. .9320 .0535 .0295 .0125 5.32 3.07 

 Heated to bright red at 



bottom of crucible. .9210 .0645 .0405 .0110 6.54 4.21 

 Heated to full red on 



whole crucible. .9148.0707 .0467 .0062 7.17 4.85 



VII. Total water. 



(a) Loss of weight at red heat, 7.30 per cent. 



(b) " " on ignition, 7.50 '• 



(c) " " " 3 times, 7.86 " 



From the above experiments of Mr. Haines in connection with 

 Nos. (1), (2) and (3) under "hygroscopic properties," we may 

 deduce the following percentages : 



For total water, we have (IV), 7.58 p. c. ; (VI), 7.17 ; (VII, a, 

 b, c), 7.3a, 7.50, 7.86. 



Mean total water, 7.48 per cent. 



For h3'groscopic water, driven off at 100°, we have 



Exp. (1) Exp. (1) Exp. (2) Exp. (3) 



Analysis I. Analysis II. Heated 1| hrs. Reheated 3 brs. 3 hrs. 3 hrs. 

 3.12 3.43 3.21 3.57 2.79 3.09 



Exp.IIaExp. lib Exp. lie Exp. II d Exp. III. Exp. IV. Exp. V. Exp. VI. 

 3 hrs. 5^ hrs, 5 hrs. 2 lirs. several hrs. 



3.14 3.33 3.42 3.69. 2.96 3.37 2.79 2.43 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



A mean of these 14 determinations gives for hj'groscopic water 

 3.17 per cent. 



Subtracting tliis fx'om the mean total water, 7.48 per cent., we 

 liaA^e for water of crystallization 4.31 per cent., an amount closely 

 agreeing with that deduced from the writer's experiments. The 

 desiccation over sulphuric acid in Exp. I is for too short a time to 

 completely extract the hj^groscopic water. 



The exact state of the water cannot yet be regarded as certainly 

 established. There is no reason why a fixed temperature of 100° 

 C. should divide the hygroscopic water from the water of crystal- 

 lization. The above experiments show that the loss of water as 

 the temperature is raised above that point is a very gradual one. 

 It is difficult to see in what manner the water driven off at 190° 

 in experiment Y, differs from that driven off at 100°. It will be 

 seen hereafter that much of the water can be driven off without 

 exfoliation. Again, there is no sufficient reason why some of the 

 water absorbed by sulphuric acid in the desiccator may not be 

 water of crystallization. It has been long known that sulphate of 

 copper either at 100° C. or in a desiccator over sulphuric acid 

 loses much of its water of crj'stallization. M. Damour has shown 

 that chabazite loses nearl}^ half of its water in a desiccator. It 

 seems probable that Philadelphite, with other vermiculites, holds 

 its water in a similar manner. From the experiments here de- 

 tailed it would seem that we maj" define water of constitution to 

 be the more closely combined, and hygroscopic water the less 

 closely combined water of cr3-stallization ; and the distinction 

 between the three states of water then becomes a theoretical rather 

 than a practical one. 



Temperature of Exfoliation. — The temperature at which exfo- 

 liation occurs is from 1,50° to 160° C. It has been found that the 

 exfoliation temperature is proportional directly to the original 

 volume of the substance, and inversely to the rapidity ^Df the ap- 

 plication of heat. The larger the piece experimented upon, the 

 higher the temperature necessary to make it exfoliate, and the 

 more rapidly the heat can be applied, the sooner will it exfoliate ; 

 as the following experiments will show. 



(a) Yery small fragments heated on a watch-glass in an air-bath 

 began to exfoliate at 150° C. 



{h) A large piece heated similarly did not exfoliate at 210° C. 



(c) A piece was immersed in melted parafflne. At 100° C. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .325 



bubbles went off slowly, but there was no exfoliation. The tem- 

 perature being raised, it made tlie first movement at 160°, exfoli- 

 ated vigorously at 175°, and at 180° rose from its support to the 

 surface of the parafline. 



(d) Another piece similarly immersed gave bubbles briskly at 

 1.30°, and began to exfoliate at 160°. 



(e) Pieces thrown into melt'ed parafline whose temperature had 

 previously been raised to 1G0° C, immediatel}^ exfoliated and rose 

 to the surface. 



(/) A large piece did not exfoliate even after the temperature 

 had been gradually raised to 225° C. 



(g) Immersed in melted sulphur, it immediately exfoliated and 

 strongly effervesced. 



(h) Immersed in concentrated sulphuric acid which had been 

 heated to 160° C, it immediately exfoliated and became pure 

 white, being completeh- and immediately^ decomposed. Immersed 

 similarh' at a temperature of 150° C. it exfoliated, but did not 

 become immediatel}^ white. At a lower temperature no exfoliation 

 occurred. A similar piece being similarly immersed and the tem- 

 perature raised, began to exfoliate at 130° C, and continued ex- 

 foliating as the temperature rose, though being meanwhile decom- 

 posed. This sudden change of form and color upon immersion in 

 hot sulphuric acid recalls a somewhat similar change in the efflor- 

 escence of protosulphate of iron when immersed in the same acid. 



It is seen from these experiments that no absolute determination 

 of the exfoliation temperature is possible. By a verj- slow heat a 

 large proportion of the water (about 5 per cent.) can be driven off' 

 and the mica raised to a high heat without any exfoliation of 

 consequence. The following experiment illustrates this fact. 



(/.) A piece of Philadelphite was cut into two equal portions. 

 One piece, heated suddenly on platinum foil to a red heat, exfoliated 

 to ten times its original volume. The other piece was slowly 

 heated in an air-bath. At 285° C. it had exfoliated but very 

 slightl\'. It was then taken out and heated on platinum foil to a 

 red heat, when it exfoliated very little more, becoming only one- 

 fourth the length of the first piece. 



A similar experiment has been made upon heulandite and stilbite 

 from near Philadelphia. Both of these zeolites, as is well known, 

 exfoliate largely when held in the flame. It has been found that 

 if the}' are heated very slowlj- on platinum foil, they can be raised 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



to a white heat without exfoliation, and when afterwards held in 

 the flame, exfoliate but slightly. Apparently the water in Phila- 

 delphite is combined precisely as in the zeolites 



It appears that it is as difficult to make a distinction between 

 water of crystallization ahd water of constitution as it is to make 

 one between the former and li3^groscopic water. 



Amount of Exfoliation. — The amount of exfoliation is quite 

 constant at ten times the original volume. 



Original thickness. Thickness after exfoliation. 



Inches. Inches. Eatio, 



.015 .13 



.015 .17 



.02 .2 1 : 10 



.03 .25 



mean 1 : 10 



04 .47 I mean 1 : 10.4 



.06 .68 



/ 



These experiments were made by heating tlie mica on platinum 

 foil over the flame of a Bunsen burner. The heat must be sudden 

 in order to have a large exfoliation (i-. Exp't. k\ Exfoliation 

 takes place in one direction onlj', viz., at right angles to the 

 cleavage. No lateral expansion whatever occurs. When the 

 flame is applied to one side of the mica, that side exfoli^es the 

 most, and causes the exfoliating mineral to curve in the opposite 

 direction. 



Force of Exfoliation. — It has been found that the force exer- 

 cised during the exfoliation of Philadelphite is enormous. In one 

 experiment a fragment of it while exfoliating lifted more than 

 50,000 times its own weight. The 'force of exfoliation is governed 

 by a law which is the inverse of that controlling the exfoliation 

 temperature. It may be stated thus : The force of exfoliation 

 increases directly with the rapidit}' of the expulsion of water, and 

 inversel}^ with the volume of the substance. The latter part ot 

 the law follows as a necessaiy consequence of the first part, since 

 the smaller the fragment, the more rapidl}- and completel}' can it 

 be heated. Various experiments were made, and though per- 

 lormed in an extremeh^ rough manner, will give an idea of this 

 force. To find what amount a given Aveight of the mica could lift 

 when exfoliating, iron pound-weights were placed upon the ring of 

 a retort stand and connected with the fragment of mica placed on 

 a support immediately below them. A pencil of chalk or gas 




IsSO.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



32T 



carbon resting loosel}' in a perpendicular position between the 

 mica and the centre of the weights connected them so that an^' 

 expansion of the mica would lift the weights from off the ring 

 on which thej^ rested. The blowpipe flame was now directed 

 from one side upon the mica. 



G, retort stand. 

 b, ring. 

 (', support. 



d, weight. 



e, pencil of chalk. 

 /, fragment of mica. 



In the following table of experiments, the first column repre- 

 sents the weight of the fragment of mica, and the second column, 

 the iron weight which was lifted by the exfoliating mica. 



Philadelphite. Weight. 



15 grains lifted 10 lbs. avoirdupois. 



readily. 



In the last experiment the four-pound weight was lifted up and 

 thrown ofl" the ring supporting it ; the weight lifted being 56, Ot 

 times the weight of the mica. 



A remarkable motive power is here deA'eloped. That it is 

 OAving solely to the escape of the combined water is shown by the 

 tact that if the weights are so arranged that the mica can onlv 

 slightly expand, and, after heating, are removed, the mica will 

 expand no more, or very slightly more, upon further application 

 of heat, the water having been in great part expelled. If the mica 

 is confined under a weight so heavj' that it is impossible for it to 




o28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



exfoliate, and is suddenl}' heated by the flame, it occasionally 

 explodes with a loud report, throwing off fragments laterally into 

 the air. 



It may be stated that the exfoliated mineral when powdered, 

 forms a handsome and permanent bronze powder not liable to 

 tarnish, and useful in the arts. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



A Potsdam Sandstone Outcrop on the S. Valley Hill of Chester 

 Valley. — Mr. H. C. Lewis remarked that an occurrence of Potsdam 

 sandstone on the farm of Mr. S. Tyson, near King of Prussia, 

 Montgomery Co., to which Mr. T. D. Rand had directed attention 

 last May, was of considerable interest. A recent examination of 

 the locality with Mr. Rand, had shown that the blocks of sand- 

 stone there found were not, as had been supposed, out of place, 

 but belonged to a narrow outcrop of the sandstone on the South 

 Valley Hill. It had a strike, and apparently a dip, nearly iden- 

 tical with that of the limestone in the valley below. In one place 

 the decomposed rock is quarried for white sand. Pits for iron 

 ore have been sunk in a very ferruginous variet}' of the same 

 rock. The exposure, which can be traced by blocks upon the 

 surface, suddenlj' comes to an end in a ravine, as though by a fault. 

 A tongue of sandstone blocks extends three hundred 3'ards or 

 more down this ravine, towards the valley, in a line at right angles 

 to the line of strike. On the farther side of the ravine, to the 

 east, no sandstone has been found, its place being filled by the 

 usual damourite slate of the South Valley Hill. The blocks of 

 sandstone therefore make an " L," the shorter arm of which 

 extends down the ravine. There is here an interesting example 

 of the work of erosion in carrying down these blocks to a lower 

 level. Whether or not the existence of a fault can be proved, the 

 occurrence of Potsdam sandstone at a new locality on the South 

 Valle}^ Hill is well worth}' of studv. This formation forms the 

 North Valle}^ Hill, but is almost totally absent on the South 

 Valley Hill. It is found here only in a few isolated patches. Its 

 place is supplied by a greenish damourite slate. If, as is sup- 

 posed, the North and South Valley Hills are opposite sides of a 

 synclinal trough which dips beneath the limestone of Chester 

 Vallej', it is curious that the rocks of each hill are so very dis- 

 similar. It is important that each one of the rare exposures of 

 sandstone on the South Valley Hill should be made known, and it 

 is thought that a determination of their relations to the adjoining 

 slates will greatly help to elucidate the geology of that region. 



22 




330 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



July 6. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



July 13. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Six persons present. 



July 20. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



July 27- 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger. in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 

 The death of Constantine Hering, M. D. was announced. 



Fresh-water Sponges of Fairmount Park.^Mx. Potts reportetl 

 that he had found in a small stream within the limits of the late 

 Centennial grounds, Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, three distinct 

 species of Fresh-water Sponges, one of which appears to be un- 

 described and the others ditfer in important points from the pub- 

 lished descriptions. In anticipation of a more detailed paper 

 describing; these and some other forms which had come under his 

 notice, he said — that one of tliese known as the common green 

 sponge of this neighborhood, resembles the European Hjwngilla 

 Jacusfris in its general appearance and in the shape of its skeleton 

 and dermal spiculae ; but differs in that the seed-like bodies or 

 spherulfe are entirely smooth, showing no incrustation of curved 

 spined spiculae as described in the European species. 



The second form was first seen as a thin rust-colored incrusta- 

 tion, afterwards discovered to consist of spherulfe forming a 

 continuous layer. Supposing this to be new he had named it 

 provisionally S. Morgiana : but later examinations of the living- 

 sponge had convinced him that it was identical with the N. fragilis 

 of Leidy. 



The third was found creeping upon and around Aimcharis and 

 Willow roots, matting them together and thus forming loose, ir- 

 regular masses several inches in diameter ; color yellowish, light 

 or dark green, according to exposure to the light. Spherulae, 

 globular, light yellow or brown, rather numerous amongst the 




1880,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



roots and spicuke ; covered with long birotulate spicula^ radially 

 arranged ; foramen elongated into a tube flaring at its extremity 

 and dividing into 2 — 5 tapering, slender, curling or twisted tendrils, 

 believed to be as much as half an inch in length. The sareode 

 decomposes early in the season and most of the skeleton spiculte 

 are then washed awa^^ ; but these tendrils hold the mass of 

 spheruUie attached to the roots etc. above mentioned, awaiting the 

 spring germination. For this curious species he suggested the 

 name S. tentasperma or tendril seeded. 



Dr. M. S. De Bey of Aix-la-Chapelle and Prof. Torquato 

 Taramelli of Pavia were elected correspondents. 



August 3. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair 

 Sixteen persons present. 

 The death of James Ridings, a member, was announced. 



Notes on Jarof^ite. — Prof. George A. Konig communicated his 

 <liscovery of Jarosife at the " Iron Arrow Mine,'' in Chaffee Co., 

 Colorado. 



The mineral occurs there in seams and cavities of silicious 

 thurgite and hematite, which iron ores crop out on the steep side 

 of a Porjihyry hill about (lOO feet above the Arkansas Rive]-, flow- 

 ing at a distance of two miles to the south. 



The mineral appears in small, but Aery brilliant cr3''stals, isolated 

 and in groups ; also as aggregations of crystals which produce 

 crusts. It is remarkably crystalline, since no compact, or crypto- 

 crystalline masses were observed. 



The crystals are rhombohedrons (resembling cubes), modified 

 by the basal plane. The speaker had not observed as yet a crys- 

 tal of sufficient size to be accurately measured. Hardness slightly 

 above selenite ; color, from light amber-yellow to deep brown. 

 Perfectly transparent. Lustre of crystal faces adamantine, resin- 

 ous on the fracture. Sp. gr. = 3.144. 



The material used for analysis consisted of the aggregations 

 before mentioned, which showed an admixture of chalcedony and 

 of brilliant, black grains of thurgite ; these could not be separated 

 mechanically, being too small. 



The mean of two analyses gave : 



100.80 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



100.94 



This result may be estimated as a confirmation of Richter's 

 analysis, which gave to Jarosite the formiila of " alunite,'' with 

 which it is isomorphous. 



Thus 41unite = K^AlgS.O,, + 6A.,0 

 Jarosite = K^FceSiO,, + 6H,,0 



The utmost care was given to the estimation of the alkalies, the 

 sulphuric acid and the water, as the question of constitution must 

 be dependent mainly upon them. 



August 10, 



The President^ Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



August IT. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



A paper entitled " Rhizopods in the Mosses of the Summit of 

 Roan Mountain N. C," by Jos. Leid}^, M. D. was presented for 

 publication. 



August 31. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 

 The following was- ordered to be printed : 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 333 



EHIZOPODS IN THE MOSSES OF THE SUMMIT OF ROAN MOUNTAIN, 



NOETH CAROLINA. 



BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M, D. 



In a trip to Roan Mountain, Mitchell Co., North Carolina, in 

 the early part of July, the writer was led to make some observa- 

 tions on the microscopic animal life, among the mosses on the 

 summit of the mountain. The top of Roan Mountain, at an alti- 

 tude of 6367 feet, forms an extensive grassy prairie, suitable for 

 pasture. It is adorned with broad patches of the beautiful Rhodo- 

 dendron catawbiense, and bordered Avith forests, chiefly of Firs — 

 Abies canadensis and A. Fraseri. The floor of the forests, made 

 up of broken granitic and gneissoid rocks and fallen timbers, is 

 thickly carpeted with a luxuriant growth of mosses, conspicuously 

 decorated at the time by the common Wood-Sorrel, Oxalis aceto- 

 sella. Chief among the mosses, each apparently attempting to 

 outvie the others in the exuberance of its growth, were the three 

 pretty Hjpnums — U. splendens^ H. crista-castrensis, and H. tri- 

 quetrum. 



Clouds, dews, and frequent rains keep the mossy carpet more 

 or less moist or wet the greater part of the time, and it thus comes 

 to be a favorable habitation for man3^ of the humbler forms of 

 animal life. The shell-covered Rhizopods abound ; and the Wheel 

 Animalcule, Rotifer vulgaris, and the Water Bear, Macrobiotus 

 Hufelandii also find a suitable home in it. When the mosses 

 become more or less dr^', the animalcules they shelter become 

 torpid, and then again become active on the restoration of 

 moisture. 



In water squeezed from the Il3^pnums, besides the animals just 

 indicated there were noticed a few young Anguillules, pollen 

 grains of Abies, starch grains, spores of lichens and fungi, ova, 

 vegetal hairs, etc. Few or no liAdng Diatomes or Desmids were 

 present. 



The Rhizopods observed were as follows : 



Nebela flabellulum. — Common. Nearly circular in outline, 

 usually slightly broader than long, and commonly with a short 

 neck or rim to the mouth ; colorless or with a feeble yellowish 

 tint ; composed of circular cancelli of variable size and propor- 




OO-d 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



tious and degree of distinctness. Individual specimens presented 

 the followinsi; measurements.^ 



a. Specimens of equal length and breadth, oi- of gr^eater breadth 



than length. 



1. Length 0.066, breadth 0.066, b'th of mouth or neck 0.018, 1'th of neck 0.006, 



b.. Specimens slightly longer than broad. 



21. Length 0.072, breadth 0.066, b'th of mouth or neck 0.018, 1'th of neck 0.006. 

 22,23." 0.084, " 0.078, " " " 0.018, " 0.006. 



24. " 0.09, " 0.081, " " " 0.018, " 0.006. 



25. '« 0.09, " 0.078, " " " 0.024, " 0.U06. 



In many the sarcode was contracted into a ball, encysted, and 

 the mouth of the shell closed with an opercle. Sarcode colorless, 

 but sometimes mingled with yellow and brown food balls ; some 

 oleaginous in appearance. Mostly, a pore was readily distinguish- 

 able on each side of the body of the shell, about one-third the 

 distance of the length above the mouth ; and the wall of the shell 

 was observed to be sensibly thickened approaching the pore. The 

 shell was usually minutely and more or less distinctly cancellated, 

 the cancelli being circular, sometimes nearl^^ uniform, at others 

 greatly differing in size. Occasionally the cancellated condition 

 was so indistinct that the shell appeared fainth' granular and even 

 nearly structureless. 



1 The measurements are given in divisions of the millepietre. As nearly 

 ;ill the Ilbizopods indicated are compressed forms, the measurements are 

 given from their most convenient position as usually seen, that is to say, iu 

 the greater breadth. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



Nebela coLLARis. — Occasional. Flask-like forms, with the 

 usual variations in the condition of the cancellated structure of the 

 shell ; sometimes finelj^ punctate, but mostly with distinct circular 

 oancelli, more or lesg uniform or greatly var3'ing in proportionate 

 size. In several specimens the cancelli of the shell appeared to be 

 like minute lenses or spheres, and to present an external con- 

 ACxity. Individual specimens measured were as follows : 



" 0.015. 



" 0.018. 



" 0.015. 



" " 0.018. 



" " 0.018. 



" 0.018. 



" " 0.024. 



Hyalosphenia tincta ? — One specimen onl3^ Sarcode encysted 

 as a ball 0.048 diameter, containing much brownish food and 

 bright yellow oil-like globules. Shell structureless, pale yellowish, 

 with a pair of pores piercing the body above the junction of the 

 neck. The specimen looked like a Nehela fiabellulum, but the yV 

 inch magnif3'iug power showed no structure to the shell. 



Length 0.060, breadth 0.072, breadth of m lutU 0,024, length of neck 0.0045. 



DiFFLUGiA GLOBULOSA. — Rare. Small forms with shells of fine 

 sand and dirt. From hemispherical to globular and with circular 

 mouth. 



1. Breadth of shell 0.06, height 0.042, brei.lth of mouth, O.OIS. 



2. '• " 0.06, " 0.018, " '• 0.024. 



DiFFLUGiA CONSTRICTA. — Rare. Shell of yellowish dirt and. 

 sand. 



Length 0.072, breadth 0.072. 



DiFFLUGiA ARCULA. — Rare. Shell hemispherical, brownish, in- 

 eorporated with dirt and fine sand ; mouth trilobate. 



Breadth 0.132, height 0.09, breadth of mouth 0.048. 



Heleopera petricola. — Occasional. Purplish brown, with 

 variable proportions of incorporated sand. 



1. Length 0.09, breadth 0.078, breadth of mouth 0.042. 



2. " 0.096, " 0.078, " " 0.036. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



AssuLiNA SEMiNULUM. — Somewliat frequent. Of varied size and 

 hue ; from nearly colorless to dark brown, and mostly lighter at 

 the neck. Mostly empty shells ; often living specimens. 



EuGLYPHA AREOLATA, Ehr. — Small compressed spineless forms, 

 occasional. A living specimen measured as follows : 



Length 0.06, breadth 0.048 ; breadth of mouth 0.015. 



EuGLYPHA STRiGOSA. — Occasional. An empty shell measured : 

 Length 0.06, breadth 0.042 ; breadth of mouth 0.012. 



Trinema enchelys. — Common. Small forms of much variety. 



1. Length 0.03 , breadth 0.024. 



2, 3. " 0.036. " O.O.S. 



4. " 0.036, " 0.036. 



5. " 0.042, " 0.03. 



In some positions, on dripping ledges and cliffs, from among 

 the greater profusion of H^'pnums, there grew cushion-like masses 

 of bright pea-green Sphagnum, sometimes rose tufted. Water 

 .squeezed from the Sphagnum, exhibited many Diatoms, a few 

 Desmids,' pollen of Abies, starch grains, spores, etc. It also 

 contained many Rhizopods, an occasional Infusorian, a few 

 Auguillules, but no Rotifers nor Water-bears, Of Rhizopods 

 the foUowino- were observed : 



'& 



Nebela collaris. — Abundant and of much variety in shape and 

 size and in the arrangement and distinctness of the cancellated 

 structure of the shell. Compressed pyriform, or flask-shaped, 

 with oval or ovoid body and with neck of variable proportionate 

 length and breadth. Cancellated structure very variable ; mostly 

 of circles, minute and nearly uniform, or greatly varying in size 

 among themselves or in proportion with the shell. Dead shells 

 most frequent ; in living ones observed, the sarcode mostly con- 

 tracted and inactive, often encysted ; least frequently in an active 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



locomotive condition. Small forms common ; giant forms few, 

 Individual specimens noted as follows : . 



1. Length 0.078, breadth 0.06 ; breadth of mouth 0.018. Compressed oval ; 

 living. 



2. Length 0.078, breadth 0.06 ; breadth of mouth 0.018. Oval with short 

 neck. Empty shell ; cancelli circular, variable, the largest 0.006, the smallest 

 0.003. 



3. Length 0.078, breadth 0.06 ; breadth of mouth 0.012. Oval with short 

 neck; living, active ; nucleus, 0.12. 



4. Len:;th 0.081, breadth 0.054; breadth of mouth 0.018. Empty shell, 

 with sharply defined circles, large and small, together with a few rods. 



5 Length 0.084, breadth 0.042; breadth of mouth 0.018; with neck 0.018 

 long. Empty shell, with minute circles on the neck, but unusually large in 

 proportion to the shell on the body where they ranged from 0.006 to 0.012. 



6. Length 0.084, breadth 0.048; breadth of mouth 0.018. Flask-like empty 

 shell, with minute circular cancelli 0.003 or less. 



7. Length 0.084, breadth 0-54; breadth of mouth 0.012. Flask-like empty 

 shell minutely and uniformly cancellated. 



8. Length 0.084, breadth 0.05; breadth of mouth 0.015. Oval, empty. 



9. Length 0.09 , breadth 0.072 ; breadth of mouth 0.^2 1. Flask-like. ' 

 10. Length 0.096, breadth 0.078 ; breadth of mouth 0.024. Pyriform ; neck 



0.006 long; cancelli circular, variable in size, a few on the fundus to 0.012. 

 Sarcode an encysted ball, with yellowish oil-like food globules ; diameter of 

 ball 0.048. 



Some giant forms especially noted were as follows : 



11. Length 0.18; breadth 0.09; breadth of mouth 042. Living; shell 

 nearly replete with sarcode, colorless but containing a multitude of bright 

 yellowish and brown globules from 0.006 to 0.012. 



12. Length 0.21; breadth 0.12; breadth of mouth 0.048. Empty shell of 

 faint yellowish tint ; basis of structure faintly and uniformly punctate with 

 only distinct minute circular cancelli approaching the fundus. 



18. Same size as preceding. Shell mostly of minute circular cancelli, larger 

 near the fundus and there mingled with a few square ones. Shell closed by an 

 operculum. Sarcode contracted into an oval mass 0.144 by 0.072. 



14. Length 0.192; breadth 0.102; breadth of mouth 0.048. Shell with 

 minutely cancellated structure. Sarcode in a ball 0.084 by 0.072. 



Nebela flabellulum. — This form comparatively rare. Shell 

 nearly circular in outline, with a short neck, mostly composed of 

 minute circular cancelli more or less nearl}^ uniform or variable ; 

 rarely of elliptical cancelli. ^ 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



1. Length 0.072; breadth 0.072; neck 0.003 long: breadth of mouth 0.009. 



2. " 0.072; " 0.078; " 0.003 " ; " " 0.009. 



3. " 0.678: " 0.078; " 0.0015 " ; " " 0.009. 



4. " 0.084; '' 0.078; " 0.003 " ; " " 0.012. 

 Shell with minute elliptical caucelli. 



DiFFLUGiA CONSTRICTA. — Rare. Only a few specimens seen. 

 Small forms, with shell of minute sand grains and yellowish dirt. 

 Pyriform viewed from the front or back. 



1. Length 0.06 ; breadth 0.048 



2. " 0.078; '• 0.048; breadth of mouth 0.024. 



3. " 0.108; " 0.102; breadth opposite moulh 0.078. 



DiFFLUGiA PYRiFORMis. — Rare. Shell of dirt and fine sand. 

 1. Length 0.084 ; breadth 0.048; breadth of neck and mouth 0.024. 



DiFFLUGiA ARCULA. — Rare. Shell yellowish, incorporated with 

 more or less brownish dirt and sand. Form hemispherical ; mouth 



trilobed. 



1. Breadth 0.132; height 0.09. 



Centropyxis aculeata. — Rare. Shell of pale brown chitinoid 

 membrane incorporated with more or less dirt and sand ; with 

 coarser grains of the latter along the course of the usually six 

 spines. Mouth oval, with a more or less sinuous border. 



1. Length 0.096 ; breadth 084 ; breadth of mouth 024. 



2. " 0.12 ; '• 0.096; mouth 0.03 by 0.024. 



Heleopera petricola Occasional ; shell incorporated with 



more or less dirt and sand, and of a purplish brown tint, 



1. Length 0.09 ; breadth 0.078; breadth of mouth 0.042. 



2. " 0.108; " 0.09 ; " " 0.036. 



EuGLYPHA AREOLATA, Ehr. — Small compressed forms, without 

 spines or other appendages. Abundant. Apparently from six to 

 fifteen teeth to the mouth of the shell. Mostly emptj^ shells. 

 Often living specimens. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



EuGLYPHA STRiGOSA. — Compressecl, hirsute forms. Occasional, 

 Usually with about tea teeth to the mouth of tlie shell ; scales 

 distinct ; finel}' hirsute all over except near the mouth. 



1. Length 0.102, b;-eadth 0.072; breadth of mouth 0.021 ; hairs 0.008 long. 



2. " 0.108, " 0.06 ; " " 0.021; •' 0.012 " 



EuGLYPHA BBACHIATA — One emptj^ shell observed, with but one 

 divergent spine, and five or six teeth to the mouth. 

 1. Length 0.102; breadth 0.04 ; breadth of mouth 0.012 ; length of spine 0.042. 



EuGLYPHA CRiSTATA. — One empty shell, with acute fundu=;,but 

 without spines, and four teeth to the mouth. 



1. Length 0.54 ; breadth 0.012; breadth of mouth 0.009. 



EuGLYPHA ciLiATA. — Comprcsscd forms, with short spines or 

 hairs along the acute lateral borders. Rare. Nucleus 0.018. 



1. Length 0.108; bre.idth 0.06 ; breadth of mouth 0.021 ; hairs or spines 0.012 



long. Ten teeth lo mouih of the shell. 



2. Length 0.102; breadth 0.072; breadth of mouth 024; spines 0.008 long. 



Nucleus of sarcode disiinctly and uniformly granular (breaking up 

 into spores?), 0.018 diameter. Ten or twelve teeth to mouth of the 

 shell. 



Placocista spinosa. — One specimen observed, living, but the 

 ample sarcode contracted and containing a transversely oval nucleus 

 with two nucleoli. 

 1. Length 0.084, breadth 0.054; breadth of mouth 0.021. Lateral spines 



short, hair-like, single or in pairs, 0.009 long. Nucleus 0.021 by 0.018 : 



nucleoli O.OOo. 



AssuLiNA SEMINULUM. — Moderately frequent ; from nearl}' 

 colorless to dark brown, mostly lighter at or near the mouth. 

 Living and dead specimens observed. 



1. Length 042, breadth 0.036, breadth of mouth 0.012. 



Trinema enchelys. — FrequeiTt and of varied form and size, 

 though none of the largest variety observed. Usuall}' pyriform ; 

 often oval ; rarel}^ obovoid; of varied pi-oportionate length and 

 breadth, of narrowing opposite the mouth, and degree of obliquity-. 

 Most!}' dead shells, though frequent living individuals observed 

 Ranging from 0.024 to 0.0T2 in length. Specimens presented the 

 following measurements. 




340 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



1. Length 0.024, breadth 0.015; breadth of mouth 0.006. Pyriform. 



0.018; 

 0.024; 

 0.08, 

 0.03; 



0.012. 

 0.012. 



Obovoid. 

 Pyriform. 



0.012. Contained 6 color- 



0.08 ; breadth of mouth 0.012, 



0.36; 

 0.03; 

 0.036; 

 0.086 ; 

 0.03; 

 0.042 ; 

 0.03; 

 0.08 ; 



" 0.015. Nucleus 0.012, 



" 0.015. 



" " 0.015. 



Lateral view of a specimen. 



It is worth}' of special remark that among the Rhizopods of the 

 sphagnum of Roan Mt., there were observed no individuals of 

 Hyaloi<phenia impilio and H. elegans, which are so common in the 

 sphagnous swamps of the eastern plains. 




1880.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 341 



September 7. 



Dr. R. S. Kenderdine, in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



On large Sphene from Canada. — Dr. A. E. Foote recorded the 

 occurrence of crystals of sphene of unusual size in the county of 

 Renfrew, Canada, near tlie upper part of the navigable portion of 

 the Ottawa River. The largest crystal collected weighed 23^ 

 pounds or raorcthan twenty times as much as the largest liereto- 

 fore found. 



September 14. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberoer, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 

 The death of Prof. S. S. Haldeman, a member, was announced. 



On the Timber Line of High Mountains. — Mr. Meehan re- 

 marked that on the tops of most high mountains we find a total 

 absence of ligneous plants. The highest alpine vegetation con- 

 sists for the most part of acaulescent perennials. Lower down 

 we may find some woody species, and often we come to dwarfed 

 forms of trees of species, which, still lower down, form forests of 

 considerable height, and which as timber trees make what is 

 known to mountain travelers as the ''Timber Line." Thus in the 

 mountains of Colorado, the forests commence at about 1000 feet 

 above the sea level, and continue up to about 11,000 feet, where 

 they suddenly cease, and form at that elevation what is there known 

 as the " Timber Line." On Gray's Peak he found Pinus aristata, 

 Pinus Jlexilis, Abies concoJor, and Abies Engelmannii, with 

 some willows forming the timber line. The Coniferous trees 

 were probably 30 or 40 feet high, and it was interesting to 

 note that this tall timber as suddenly ceased, as if a wood had 

 been cut half awaj' bj^ a woodman's axe. But at once commencing 

 where the tall timber ceased, the same species exist as dwarf 

 stunted shrubs seldom exceeding 3 or 4 feet in height, and often 

 but a foot, though trailing widel}' over the groinid. In tiiis 

 stunted condition the species would often extend some fifreen 

 hundred feet higher up, or half way from the recognized timber 

 line to the top of the mountain. Other observers have noted 

 that the average of 11,000 feet marks the entire timber line of 

 the Rocky mountain range. 



So far as he knew this peculiar timber line has been referred 

 wholly to climatic conditions, of which temperature and moisture 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



have been regarded as the chief elements in producing the results. 

 That admirable botanist and energetic collector, Dr. C C. Parry, 

 in a paper on the Rocky mountain alpine region, published in the 

 "Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement 

 of Science " for 1869, p. 249, remarks that the most satisfactory ex- 

 planation is that the so called timber line marks the extreme point 

 of minimuvi temperature below which no exposed phenogamous 

 plant can exist. All that survives above this point does so by 

 submitting to a winter burial of snow, beneath which protecting 

 cover it is enabled to maintain its torpid, existence. 



The great objection which this purely meteorological view pre- 

 sented to Mr. Meehan's mind was that the dwarfed and gnarled 

 coniferae extending so many hundred feet up the mountain sides, 

 never produced seed, and we are reduced to the alternative of 

 believing either that the seeds have been carried up the mountain 

 sides in enormous quantities and to enormous distances from the 

 fruitive trees below by winds, or else that there were seed bearing 

 progenitors of these scrubby pines, beneath the tall protecting 

 branches of which they had their earliest stages of growth. He 

 was satisfied from subsequent observations in the mountains of 

 North Carolina, and in the White Mountains of New Hampshire, 

 that this last view is the correct one, — that large timber trees at 

 no very remote period extended much further up the mountain 

 sides than thej^ do now, and that they have since disappeared for 

 reasons presently to be stated, leaving only the 3'ounger trees to 

 struggle on as best they may. 



Roan Mountain in North Carolina is about 6300 feet above the 

 level of the sea. Timber extends to its summit on some parts of 

 it, while in other parts it is destitute of timber for many hundreds 

 of feet down its sides. The species on the summit is Abies 

 Frazeri, and Abies nigra. Oak and other trees come occasionally 

 to near the top and at about 6000 feet he measured a black oak — 

 Quercus tinctoria, that was 5 feet in circumference at 3 feet from 

 the ground, and was perhaps 40 feet high. The places destittite 

 of trees were the steep declivities, — while those on which the 

 trees were growing were of a more level character. Further down 

 the mountain sides the steep inclines would be clothed with forest 

 growth, as well as those of a more gradual ascent. It is of the 

 summit only that the differences in inclination, presented different 

 forest aspects. But in the spaces clear of" Balsam "' as the Abies 

 Frazeri is popularlj^ known, an occasional one of good size would 

 be seen. In the close Balsam woods, both on the summit and 

 lower down the mountain sides, crops of young plants would be 

 found under the mature trees, but, what was very remarkable, 

 there had evidently been no young trees started till the parents 

 were near maturity. A large area with trees 30 or 40 feet 

 high would have an undergrowth of young ones a foot or so high, 

 while other areas of younger trees, would have innumerable small 

 seedlings growing among the damp moss beneath them, and it 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



was further interesting to note tliat in most cases the crops of 

 young plants in each area were about the same age in each case, 

 as if the seeds in the several locations had all started to grow 

 together in some one particular year, and probably at no other time. 

 On the naked ^^laces, where few or no trees were now found, the sur- 

 face would be closely covered bj^ a matted growth of a grass almost 

 peculiar to that I'egion, Danthonia compressa, but a close examina- 

 tion of the surface showed occasional tracts of deep vegetable 

 mould which had been formed by ages of deca^ying Hypnum or 

 Sphagnum moss, and the evident remains of roots, just as we now 

 find under the Balsam trees, and there is no doubt from these 

 facts that these steep upper declivities were once clothed with 

 trees and mosses, to which the grass previously named succeeded. 



With these facts in mind he examined the arboreal features of 

 the White Mountains in New Hampshire. On Mount Washington, 

 which is a little over 6000 feet, the timber runs up to about 4000 

 feet ; while Mount Webster, a mountain forming the southern 

 peak of the same chain, and about 4000 feet high, has little timber 

 above 3000 feet. Clearly, climatic reasons will not account for 

 these peculiarities. On Mount Washington there is much of the 

 same character as distinguishes the foi'ests of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains. As already noted the timber line becomes marked at about 

 4000 feet. For at least another thousand feet we meet witli 

 sci'ubby bushes of Abies Balsamea, Abies yiigra^ and Abies alba, 

 with some Betula papyracea. Beyond this, and almost to the 

 summit, an occasional specimen of one or another of the conifers 

 may be seen. As noted in regard to the Colorado scrubbj^ growth, 

 none of these had ever produced seed ; nor was it at all probable, 

 from a careful survey of the locations, that many of the areas 

 could have been seeded by the winds, however strong, bringing 

 the seeds up these mountain heights. Moreover, there were many 

 cases where there were intermediate areas clear of all scrubby 

 spruce plants, and where seeds could be brought by winds in 

 these modern times much easier than to the heights above. 

 Besides this, it was evident that many of these dwarfed specimens 

 were of immense age. Some that he examined were certainly 

 fifty 3'ears old, though the stems at the ground were no thicker 

 than his wrist, and, trailing on the ground, occupied but 

 16 or 20 square feet of space. There seemed to be but little 

 doubt that at some time in the past Mount Washington had 

 forests of conifeme at much higher elevations than at present, if 

 not perhaps clean up to the summit ; that these scrubby plants 

 now there were seedlings that had sprung up under the elder 

 ones, and that in time the older ones were destroyed, leaving the 

 small ones beneath alone to their fate. 



An examination of different parts of Mount Washington shows 

 not only that this is the true explanation of the absence of good 

 timber beyond what is known as the timber line, but that the 

 same law is in progress to day as in centuries past. Illustrations 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



of this are numerous. There is now a railroad running straight 

 up the mountain side from the base to the summit. Near the 

 timber line, a cut had to be made through an area covered by 

 mature Balsam Firs. This cut was about 8 or 10 feet deep. 

 Under the trees moss and dead roots and old fir leaves had made 

 an earthy strata of a foot, or in places, more in depth. The moss 

 was still green from the rains, melting snows, and fogs of this 

 elevated res-ion, and sustaining the various kinds of low veoeta- 

 tion common to these alpine heights. Young firs were springing 

 up in great abundance. But all the larger trees were dead, though 

 here and there might be seen a branch with a few lingering green 

 leaves. This mass of dead, standing timber occupied several acres. 

 The reason for their death was evident. The railroad cut showed 

 that the forest stood on a mass of large but loose gneiss rocks, 

 through which the waters from the two thousand feet of loose rock 

 above rushed as soon as the railroad cut was made, carrying with 

 it all the earthy matter on which the larger trees subsisted, but 

 leaving the tough turf}^ matter at the surface, on which smaller 

 trees of the same sort may live for many years, though the larger 

 ones cannot longer exist. With the death of the larger trees 

 there is, of course, an increase of light, and then the Sierochloe, 

 with other grasses and sedges, speedily take possession, holding 

 together the loose soil, and even permitting in many cases an 

 increase of the earthy layer, b}^ holding much of the disintegrated 

 rock which may be washed or blown on from above. Carefully 

 examining patches of scrubby spruces above the timber line, it is 

 not uncommon to find dark patches of vegetable mould evidently 

 the remains of large trees that have been growing where now only 

 the masses of small scrubby plants exist. In some places a sharp 

 stick may be pushed down among the scrubby firs and spruces, 

 and the earth found to be but a foot or so deep over the loose 

 rock below, from which the earth has been wholly washed away. 

 Again, there are some places often nearly an acre in extent where 

 the scrubby firs are still standing, dead, from the earth having 

 been washed away from below upwards, not leaving enough for 

 even the moderate demands of these little bushes. 



In view of the facts detailed we may conclude that at the 

 elevation of these mountain chains, the lowland veafetation was 

 carried up at the same time. The summits, covered by luxuriant 

 forests would present a cooler surface to the moist clouds, and 

 there would be less condensation than on bare sun-warmed rocks, 

 and deep snows would be less frequent, and not suflicient to inter- 

 fere much with arboreal growth. But the rain would of necessity 

 carry down the earth and disintegrated rock to lower levels ; and 

 the melting snows, such as there were, would make this downward 

 progress of the soil continuous. In some mountains where the rock 

 was easily broken by frost, as in Colorado and the White Mountains, 

 it would be very difl!icult for the soil to hold its own against these 

 forces of gravitation ; but on more solid rock the mass of tree 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 345 



roots protectino- the rock, and retaining the earthy matter would 

 longer hold its own. In the former case with the gradual washing 

 away of the earth the larger trees will have to find a lower 

 level ; the summit condensing more moisture, and having a cooler 

 atmosphere, would form heavier masses of longer enduring snow, 

 and thus keep down from tall growth the younger trees left as the 

 older and larger ones retired. They would have to be low bushes 

 by the absence of earth for vigorous groAvth, and remain trailing 

 bushes, through the superincumbent and long continued mass of 

 snow. 



We thus see that though a long continued mass of snow has 

 much to do in marking a timber line, that line is precedent to the 

 snowy mass. The primar}^ cause is the gravitation of disinte- 

 grated rock— tlie movement of the hill top towards the sea. From 

 the moment the mountain reaches its highest point it commences 

 its downward march. The entire reduction of the highest to a 

 level with the plain is but a question of time. The frost and rain 

 and melting snow will do it all, and this reduction, bringing down 

 not only the earth, but cold-loving plants to warmer levels, must 

 continually change the aspects of vegetation, as well as perpetually 

 vary the timber line. 



In low hills as well as in high mountains the forces of gravita- 

 tion are also at work. But the sides are seldom so steep as in the 

 loftier hills, — the rains do not gather with such force nor are 

 the melting snows of near the same duration. There are sudden 

 washes, but not the continuous roll of the earth to the bottom. 

 In time they maj^ exhibit the same phenomena of the disappearance 

 of species from their summits as their loftier brethren ; but the 

 centuries here will gather much more slowly to produce a similar 

 effect. 



In conclusion he would say briefly that the " timber line " of 

 high mountain tops results from the washing down of the earth 

 from the higher elevations. 



Mr. Redfield remarked that there could be no doubt that 

 influences other than climatic (such for instance as the washing 

 away of soil, mentioned by Mr. Meehan) do often modify and 

 change the timber-line upon mountains. But he was unable to 

 accept Mr. Meehan 's views as to the insignificant part played by 

 climatic causes, and still held them to be the prevailing factor in 

 the problem. Dr. Parry's explanation by the weight and depth of 

 winter snows might not always be the correct one, but snow and 

 ice must be very important agents, and Mr. R. thought that in 

 considering climate, we should have regard not merely to the 

 present period, but to past great secular periods. He then referred 

 to the glacial age, when not only the White Mountains, but all 

 New England was capped with a vast ice-sheet, which under secular 

 changes gradually retreated, leaving only the mountain tops 

 covered. The slow retreat of the glacial covering was followed 



23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



b}' the advance of fitting arboreal vegetation, until a point was 

 reached when the present climatic conditions were such as to 

 limit any higher advance of the trees. 



September 21. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



Bone Caves of Pennsylvania. — Prof. Leidy remarked that in 

 the early part of August, in company with Dr. T. C. Porter of 

 Easton, he had visited Ilartman's Cave, in the vicinity of Strouds- 

 burg, Pa. They had been invited by Mr, T. Dunkin Paret, of 

 that place, who had recently undertaken the exploration of the 

 cave, and had obtained from it an interesting and important col- 

 lection of animal remains, which had been submitted to Prof. 

 Leidy 's examination. 



The cave is situated about five miles from Delaware Water 

 Gap in a ridge which separates Cherry Valley from the valleys of 

 the Pocono and McMichael's Creeks. The ridge is an anticlinal 

 fold of the Ileiderberg or Upper Silurian limestone, and the cave, 

 occupies the axis of the fold and opens in the face of a clitf formed 

 by a cross section of the ridge. An accumulation of debris forms 

 a slope at the base of the cliflT, and above the deliris and just 

 below the arching roof of the cave, a low passage waj^ has long 

 been known into which adventurous bojs would creep. 



Mr. Paret commenced the exploration by having a passage dug . 

 through the del)ris to the entrance of the cave, and then extended 

 the trench within the latter for upwards of a hundred feet, and to 

 a depth siifficient to walk erect. At one place within the cave the 

 digging was carried to^the rock floor. It would thus appear that 

 the cave is occupied by a bed of clay about 10 feet in depth. On 

 this is a thin layer of stalagmite and on this again about a foot of 

 black frial)le earth mingled with animal and vegetal remains. 



No remains have been found imbedded in the. cla}^ nor on the 

 rocky floor in the pit dug through the latter. * 



Prof. Leidy supposed that during the glacial period, a stream 

 of water, from melting snow and ice at a higher level, had made 

 a passage way through the fissured limestone of the anticlinal axis 

 and had left in it the abundant clay deposit. When the cave 

 ceased to be a water course the layer of stalagmite was formed 

 and subsequently the more frialjle eartli accumulated from mate- 

 rials, such as (lust and leaves, blown in and mingled with the 

 remains of animals, occupants of the cave, and of their food. The 

 recess of the cave above the clay floor api)ears to have been too 

 small to be inhabited by the larger carnivorous animals or mah, 

 and therefore no large entire bones of these have been found in 

 the ossiferous stratum. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Z41 



The remains thus far discovered are of such interest as to 

 encourage Mr. Paret to continue furtlier exploration Most of 

 these collected to the i)resent time were exhibited by Prof. Leidy, 

 and consist of the following : 



Numerous fragments and splinters of limb bones of smaller and 

 large animals, man}- or most of which exhibit the marks of being 

 gnawed, whether by rodents or small carnivores is somewhat im- 

 certain. A few also show the marks of canine teeth, of medium 

 sized carnivores. Some of the splinters pertain to such large and 

 strong bones as to render it questionable whether they were pro- 

 duced by even our largest carnivores, and probably are the rem- 

 nants of human feasts, in which the bones were crushed to obtain 

 the marrow. Numerous bones and fragments of others of the 

 smaller and smallest animals. These include especially limb 

 bones, and lower Jaws, and less frequently skulls, fragments of 

 others and vertebrae. Many of these are also gnawed, while many 

 are not. 



The fragments of larger bones may be supposed to have been 

 conveyed into the cave by small carnivores. A few pieces of bone 

 are somewhat charred ; and a small fragment of a lower jaw, con- 

 taining a molar tooth, of the Bison, also apparently exhibits 

 the marks of fire. This probably is a remnant from a human 

 feast, which may have been carried into the cave' by some small 

 gleaner. 



All the bones and fragments together amount to about half a 

 bushel. Most of them pertain to animals of a kind still living, 

 though some of these no longer belong to the fauna of our state, 

 and a few of the remains are those of extinct animals. How far 

 the remains of different species are cotemporary is uncertain, 

 though it is most probable that they were introduced through a 

 long succession of years from the time following the glacial period. 



The remains of extinct animals consist of an incisor tooth and 

 half a dozen molars of the great rodent Gasforoides ohioensis^ 

 and portions of the upper and lower jaw, with teeth, of a young 

 Peccary, the Dieotijles nasutus, previously known only from a 

 single fragment of an upper jaw, discovered in Indiana, (Extinct 

 Mammalia of North America, 385, pi. xxviii, figs. 1, 2. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sc, vii, 1869). 



The remains of animals no longer living in Pennsylvania are as 

 follows : 



Bones and teeth of the Caribou or Woodland Reindeer, 

 Rangifer caribou. 



A fragment of the lower jaw containing the last molar tooth, of 

 the Bison, B. americanus. 



Man}- lower jaw halves, and other bones and teeth of the Wood- 

 "rat, Neotoma fioridana. Most of these ai'c of comparatively large 

 size, and of the character of similar remains referred by Prof. 

 Baird to a supposed extinct species, with the name of Neotoma 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



magister, (U. S. P. R. R. Exp. & Surveys — Zoology, viii, 1857, 

 498). 



Remains of other mammals are as follow : Lynx, Felis cana- 

 densis; Wolf, Canis lupus; Gray Fox, Vulpes virginianus ; 

 Skunk, Mephitis mephitica ; Weasel, Putorius ermineus ; Raccoon, 

 Procyon lotor ; Mole, Scalops aquations ; Dusky Bat, Vespei'tilio 

 fuscus; Little Brown Bat, V.subuJatus; Woodchuck, Arctomys 

 monax ; Porcupine, Erethizon dorsatus ; Beaver, Castor fiber ; 

 Muskrat, i^zfeer zibethicus ; Gray Squirrel, >Scf»rus carolinensis ; 

 Ground Squirrel, Tamias sfriatus ; Gray Rabbit, Lepus sylvati- 

 cus ; Meadow Mouse, Arvicola riparius ; White-footed Mouse, 

 Hesperomys leucopiis ; Deer, Gervus virginianus: Elk, Gervus 

 canadensis. 



Arnong the remains, none have been identified as positively 

 pertaining to our domestic animals, unless, perhaps, a pair of 

 specimens are to be referred to this category. The specimens are 

 the complete isolated first and second large molars of a foetal or 

 new-born Horse 1 



The collection further contains numerous bird bones, chiefly of 

 the Wild Turkey, Meleagris gallopavo ; some of turtles, the Box 

 Turtle, Gistudo clausa^ the Snapper, Ghelydra serpentina, etc. ; 

 and others of several species of snakes. 



In the same stratum were also found a number of shells of 

 moliusks, chiefly Helix albolabris, H. alternata, and H. tridentata. 

 Also a valve of Unio complanatus. 



Of A^egetal remains there were a few small fragments of charcoal, 

 and many seeds, consisting of those of the Dogwood, Gornus 

 iJorida, Pig-nut, Gary a porcina, and Walnut, Juglans nigra. 



The human remains are of an interesting character. One is a 

 large stone celt of hard brown slate, obtained from the bone earth 

 some distance within the cave. There are five bone awls, several 

 of which exhibit marks of gnawing. Some of these were found 

 in the cave, and others in the outside debris. An implement con- 

 sists of the prong of an antler worked so as to be barbed on one 

 side, and was probably used as a needle for making nets. 



A small implement of bone, resembles in its present condition 

 a crochet needle such as is iiow employed by ladies in making 

 worsted work. It is much gnawed away on one side, and looks 

 as if it may have been like an ordinary needle with a perforation, 

 and this now rendered incomplete from the gnawing. 



Another implement is a fish-hook worked out of bone. 



Such bone implements are among the rarest of human relics in 

 our portion of the countr}' . 



Another remarkable relic is a cone shell bored through the axis 

 as a bead. The shell is a marine species, Gonus tornatus, found 

 on the western coast of Central America. Its presence among the 

 cave remains, would indicate an extended intercourse among the 

 inhabitants of early times. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPHIA. 349 



The investigation of the interesting collection of remains secured 

 by Mr. Paret, had led Prof. L. to examine a small collection of 

 bones in the Museum of the Academy, which had been presented 

 upwards of thirty years ago, as a sample of many of the same 

 kind discovered in Durham Cave, Bucks Co., Pa. The cave 

 appears to have since been obliterated in the quarrying of lime- 

 stone. At the time of the presentation of the specimens of bones 

 the}' were recognized as pertaining to existing species of animals 

 and were therefore regarded as of little interest, though fortu- 

 nately they have been preserved. 



Prof. Leidy remarked that these bones Avere of the same charac- 

 ter as those of Hartman's Cave, and he had distinguished among 

 them the followino- : 



The Black Bear, Ursus americanus : Raccoon, Skunk, Gray 

 Fox, Deer, Moose, Alee americanu>< ; Woodland Reindeer, Bison, 

 Gray Squirrel, Rabbit, Beaver, Muskrat, Porcupine, Woodchuck, 

 Woodrat, Wild Turkey, Box Tortoise, Snapper, Snake, Sturgeon, 

 and Cattish. 



The examination of these collections show that the exploration 

 of small caves may not only prove of ethnographic value, but 

 serve to give us information relative to the early fauna of the 

 countr}'. Thirty years ago Prof. Baird gave an account of the 

 exploration of some bone caves in this State (Proc. Am. Assoc, 

 II, 1849, 352). He refers to a vast accumulation of remains in 

 one of the caves, and remarks that the number of species of mam- 

 malia found is twice that of present existing species in Pennsyl- 

 vania. It is to be regretted that no further account has yet been 

 given of the species to which the remains belong. 



Dimorphic Flowers in Hoiistonia. — Mr.Tnos. Meehan remarked 

 that flowers dimorphic in their sexual character were well known. 

 Generalh' there was little difference in the corolla between the 

 short styled or long styled flowers, but in Houstonia cceridea^ L., 

 the long st^'led form was accompampanied by a thick tube, while 

 the tul)e in the short styled form was not more than half the 

 diameter of the other. In this species of Houstonia the anthers 

 were placed on a ledge which was at the base of the tube in the 

 long styled form. In the short styled form the anthers were 

 brought to the mouth of the corolla without any lengthening of 

 filaments, but by the bringing up of this ledge on which the 

 anthers are placed. The position of the anthers at the mouth or 

 at the base of the tube, was in fact decided by the modification of 

 the form of the corolla tube. This had been explained in the 

 first series of " Flowers and Ferns of the United States." In a 

 recent examination of Houstonia serpullifoHa^ Mx., on the top of 

 Roan Mountain in North Carolina, Mr. Meehan found preciselv 

 the same characters in that species. On the same mountain 

 Houstonia purpurea^ L., abounds, and also has a similar sexual 

 dimorphism, but_in]^this case the elevation of the anthers is due 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF . [1880. 



to the lengthening of the stamens and the form of the corolla-tube 

 is the same in both sexual forms. The number of plants repre- 

 senting each sexual form is about equal. In a handful of plants 

 gathered at random there were of Houstonia serpyllifolia thirteen 

 with long styles and short stamens, and eleven with short styles and 

 the anthers in the mouth of the tube. Of Houstonia j)urpurea 

 there were thirteen with long styles to fourteen with short ones. 

 An interesting fact in connection with these sexual differences is 

 that the dimorphism seemed to be wholly in the shortening of the 

 style or filaments, and did not seem to effect injuriously the 

 anthers or stigma. Both forms seemed to be equally fertile. 



In answer to a question by Mr. Redfleld, Mr. Meehan said there 

 did not appear to be any intermediate forms. The stigma or the 

 anthers were either exactly at the throat of the flowers, or exactly 

 at the base. In regai'd to cross fertilization the long styled would 

 be in the best position for receiving pollen from foreign flowers, 

 but the short styled one would more readil}" receive its own. As 

 cross and self-fertilization had an equal advantage he would infer 

 that the dimorphism had little reference to fertilization as a final 

 cause. 



Gleistogam.y in Oxo.lis Acetosella, L. — Mr. Meehan observed 

 that under the forests of Abies Frazeri^ on Roan Mountain, North 

 Carolina, early in August Oxalis Acetosella was abundantly in 

 flower. 



In a large number of cases examined he could find no traces of 

 any disposition to produce seed vessels, but pushing out beneath 

 the soil or near the surfece were numbers of cleistogene flowers, 

 from which, in all probability, seeds would be produced in abun- 

 dance. 



Most plants which produced cleistogene flowers, also produced 

 the usual open corolla bearing flowers at one time or another in 

 the season, and it had been suggested that this bright petalled 

 condition was for the purpose of attracting insects, and thus give 

 the species some chance to escape from the evils which cleis- 

 togamy, or close-breeding is supposed to involve. It is worthy 

 of note that no day insects were noted to visit the flower of the 

 Oxalis blooming in these dark fir forests, though nocturnal ones 

 might supply tlie deficiency. Mr. Meehan remarked, however, 

 that no rule could be deduced from single observations, or obser- 

 vations repeated in the same localities, as the behavior of 

 plants and insects varied with circumstances. The Oxalis might 

 not be cleistogene, might be visited by insects, and the open 

 flowers mioht be fertile elsewhere. He referred in illustration to 

 Amphicarpsea monoica^ Nutt., which near Philadelphia sometimes 

 produced no seeds from the petaliferous flowers, while at other 

 times these flowers were remarkably fertile. Again, all his exam- 

 inations in the locality named had resulted in finding that the 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPiriA. 351 



petal-bearing flowers were as perfectly fertilized in the iinexpanded 

 corollas as were tlie cleistogene flowers. But he was prepared to 

 expect different results elsewhere. 



September 28. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



The following papers wei'e presented for pul)lication in the 

 Journal : 



" The Parasites of the Termites," liy Jos. Leidy, M. D. 



" Remarks on Bathygnathus horealis," l)y Jos. Leidy, M. D, 



October 5. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirtj'-two persons pi*esent. 

 The death of James C. Fisher, M. D., a member, was announced. 



Sexual Variation in Castanea Americana, Michx. — Isaac C. 

 Martindale stated he had recently visited Pitman Grove, Glou- 

 cester Co., New Jersey, in order to examine some chestnut trees 

 growing there, and remarked that it was well known there are 

 but two species of chestnut trees in this country, the chinquapin, 

 Castanea pmnila^ found occasionally in New Jersey, and abund- 

 antly further south, and the common chestnut, Castanea Ameri- 

 cana. The chinquapin attains the height here of ten to tweh'e 

 feet, being a shrub rather than a tree. In Mar3^1and, Virginia and 

 North Carolina, it often reaches four times that height, and be- 

 comes nearly a foot in diameter. It is from those States that 

 most of the chinquapins found in our markets come. The burs 

 contain but a single nut, and it quite small, but as a cluster of 

 five or six together is not unfrequent, nearl^^ as many chinquapins 

 may be found on a branch, as chestnuts on the common chestnut 

 trees. The leaves of the dwarf chestnut, as it is sometimes called, 

 are woolly underneath, even in their mature condition, while on 

 the other they become green on both sides as they reach full size. 



A peculiar feature in the flowering of the chestnut, namely, that 

 the trees bear two sets of flowers, was pointed out b^^ Thomas 

 Meehan, of the Oardener''s Monthly, a close observer of vegetable 

 growths, more than a year ago. His observations are recorded in 

 the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, for the year 1879. It may not be difficult for any one to 

 recall the manner of the infloresence, which consists of the 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



flowers growing on a stem, botanically called a spike, from four 

 to six inches in length, there being from thirty to sixty flowers 

 together. These come from buds in the axils of the first leaves 

 of the season, and are composed entirely of staminate (male) 

 flowers. They are very odorous when in full bloom, and often so 

 abundant as to give the trees a white appearance when seen at a 

 distance. As soon as these flowers fade, which is in a few days, 

 a disarticulation takes place close to the branch, and the spike 

 falls to the ground. About ten days later, a second flowering 

 takes place, these spikes coming from the later axillary buds of 

 the season, and instead of being all staminate as in the first in- 

 stance, at the base of the spike will be found one, sometimes two, 

 rarely more, pistillate (female) flowers. These are fertilized by 

 the staminate flowers that are in blossom at the same time ; the 

 staminate part 0f the spike falls away after flowering, but the pis- 

 tillate part remains attached to the branch, and developes into a 

 bur, containing from two to five or six nuts. What may be the 

 use of the first set of blossoms, has not yet dawned upon the 

 mind of man ; it would seem a great waste of energy to provide 

 for such an abundance without a purpose, but the prodigality of 

 nature is visible in numerous other instances as well. 



The variety of forms of the nut was greater in the locality re- 

 ferred to than he had ever seen before. One tree was particularly 

 attractive, the shape of the bur being exactly pyriform instead of 

 globular ; its chestnuts, of course, corresponding somewhat in 

 shape, being long and slim. 



Near the southern line of the tract was found one tree, and 

 afterwards in another part a second tree, which will require special 

 notice. The former was about twenty feet high and six inches in 

 diameter, while the other was at least seventy-five feet in height, 

 and more than two feet in diameter at the base, a very wide 

 spreading and thrifty looking tree. In these, the later blossoms 

 referred to, instead of Ijeing part staminate and part pistillate, 

 have been all pistillate, consequently were succeeded by burs all 

 along the spike, numbering in those counted from flft}- to sixty 

 together, and hanging from the branches like bunches of grapes. 

 Every branch of the tree that bore any at all, had them of this 

 character, so that there were doubtless hundreds if not thousands 

 of them. An important point is here manifested. These flowers 

 being all pistillate, and the staminate ones (the first blossoms re- 

 ferred, to) having fallen, there was nothing to fertilize them, con- 

 sequently they could not attain much size nor develop chestnuts 

 within the bur, except that rarely the first or second nearest the 

 base contained three or four ver^^ small nuts. These nuts, how- 

 ever, were without germs. 



He had been unable to find any record of such an occurrence in 

 this country before, but Dr. Masters records it as having been 

 noted in France. The superintendent of the grove to whom be- 

 longs the credit of first detecting these trees, could not say 




rroc. A IN. o. run. luuv 



u. 



T.Binclaii- &. S oti, liilh •F^.>■la ia 



Simia Satyr^us. L. 





PROC, A. N. S, PHILA,, 1880 



PL, XII 



CHAPMAN, ANATOMY OP ORANGOUTANG. 





^ROC, A, N. S, PHILA., 1880, 



PL, Xlil, 



.ANATOMY OF ORANGOUTANG, 





Proc A.N. S. Phil -1880. 



Plate XIY 





i^ 





W\ 







,..--^' 



Sf§:f 



^ cjWi^'fli i ytfW gtf&^j 





w 



r- 



'^.: 



<PUnik>>> 



*; 





T Sinclair* Sonlith.Philada 



Chapman, Anatomy of Ourang Otan^. 





PROC. A. N. S, PHILA,. 1880, 



PL, XV. 



CHAPMAN, ANATOMY OF ORANGOUTANG, 





PROC, A, N, S, PHILA., 1880. 



PL XVI, 



CHAPMAN, ANATOMY OF ORANG OUTANG, 





PROC. A, N, S. PHILA,, 1880, 



PLXV! 



CHAPMAN, ANATOMY OF OPANO OUTANG, 





PROC. A, N. S, PHiLA 



PL XVIII 



BARBECKON LEMNA, 





1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



whether in past years they had borne burs in this manner or 

 not. 



It will be remembered that occasionally in a field of corn the 

 tassel, which is the staminate (innle) flower, has a number of 

 grains of corn intermixed. These grains come from pistillate 

 (female) flowers, occurring among the staminate ones; thus it 

 may be observed that our chestnut tree is not the only instance 

 of deviation from the regular laws of development. It has been 

 aroucd that a want of nutrition will aecoiuit for this and similar 

 instances, but the healthy appearance and vigorous growth of 

 the trees in question is not such that a lack of nutrition can well 

 apply. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that he believed instances of 

 the changes of flowers normally of one sex to the otlier, were oc- 

 casionally met with, though he could not refer to many without 

 further thought or investigation, but it occurred to him just then 

 that it Avas not unusual for some normally male spikes in Carex 

 to have female dowers among them. He had himself seen well 

 developed ovariums among the anients of Populus alba, and the 

 case of female flowers among the male catkins of willows, was 

 well known to teratologists. Reference had been made to his 

 papers on sex as influenced by nutrition. His view of sex, as 

 well known, was that in the earlier stages, between the cessation 

 of vegetative growth and reproductive growth, a vegetable cell 

 might be either male or female, and that the power of that cell to 

 assimilate nutrition, involved the question of sex. If a full sup- 

 ply was received, the female form resulted; if limited, the male 

 was produced. In most cases this assimilative power influenced 

 only the branches or cells in the immediate vicinity of the 

 flowers. There might be no difference in the cells of the whole 

 plant in a general way to avail themselves of a full supply of 

 nutrition. He did not know tiiat there was greater vegetative 

 strength in the plant of Maize, which bore some females among 

 the '' tassels '' or males, than there was in the normal plant. 

 There certainl}^ was no difl'erence in the vegetative strength 

 of plants of separate sexes in many classes of plants. But 

 there were instances which proved that the whole individual 

 plant was influenced by laws of nu.rition when the question 

 of sex was involved. The female Hemp, the female Spinage, 

 the female Croton, when the plants were wholly bi-sexual, were 

 cases he could readily call to mind where vegetative vigor favored 

 the whole plant. 



The common Ambrosia artemisisefolia, which often grows so 

 thickly over cultivated fields as to a;)pear as a regular farm 

 crop, each plant fighting for nutrition with its neighbor, pro- 

 duces almost wholh' male blossoms ; the few females are found 

 at the base of the male spikes. But when we go to the maize or 

 the potato fields, where the plants are few and well fed, we may any 

 24 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



time find plants which have a great abundance of female flowers, — 

 indeed, sometimes plants which are wholly female. 



In the case of these chestnuts he would not say it was a want 

 of nutrition which made these normally male flowers become fe- 

 male. That was not his view of the case. On the contrary, it 

 was that better nutritive advantages prevailed to influence the 

 female sex, and these long spikes of chestnut fruit proved the 

 fact rather than interposed an objection. It was a simple and 

 uncontroverted fact that these young chestnuts were being 

 nourished, were imbibing nutrition, wdiile if they had been nor- 

 mal male flowers, they Avould have been dead months ago. It 

 was evident to the senses that nutrition was in the end involved, 

 and w^e only had to consider at what point of early cell life its 

 influence was felt. The old idea would probably be that the 

 question of nutrition followed the " fiat " which made sex, while 

 his views deduced from the numerous facts he had published on 

 the question, were th;it nutrition, in its various phases, was itself 

 the law-maker. As to the greater power behind this, which 

 decreed that this should be the law, ;nid that the law should pro- 

 duce such even divisions in the proportion of the sexes, it was 

 another question. He only claimed that his discoveries had 

 brought us a step nearer to this greater cause. 



Note. — I have since learned through au old resident in the vicinity, that 

 the large tree has borne such burs for many years, and that it is known 

 throughout the neighborhood as the "he " tree. — I. C. M. 



OCTOBEK, 12. 



Tlie President, Dr. RuscHENP.KiKiEU. in tlie cliair, 

 Thirly-five ])ersons i)rv'sent. 



October 19. 

 Dr. I\. S. Kenderdine in the chair. 



Twenty-eiglit persons present. 



The Publiciition Committee reported in favor of pul>lishing the 

 following papers in the Journal of the Academy: — 



" The Parasites of the Termites," by Jos. Leidy, M. D. 



" Remarks on Bathygnathus orientalis," by Jos. Leidj-, M. D. 




1880.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 355 



October 26. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



The deaths of Dr. Chas. H. Budd and of Joshua Lippincott, 

 members, were announced. 



Samuel R. Kuiglit, M. D., and Rev. Wm. F. C. Morsell were 

 elected members. 



November 2. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twentj^-four persons present. 



Rain Trees. Note on Yucca gloriosa.—'Mv. Thomas Meehan 

 referred .to a branch of Yucca gloriosa.^ exhibited a few evenings 

 ago, taken from a plant growing in his garden, and which had 

 flowered during September, the usual period for blooming near 

 Philadelphia. Walldng through his garden with Mr. Isaac C. 

 Martindale, the latter had called his attention to moisture which 

 covered the whole outer surface of the flowers, and collected in 

 drops at the drooping apices of each leaf of the perianth. The 

 plant was within, a few days' of going wholl}' out of bloom, but 

 during these few daj's the exhibition of moisture continued, and 

 the appearance of the leaves beneath showed that the dropping of 

 liquid had been going on for some time, and perhaps during the 

 whole flowering season. There was no perceptible sweetness in 

 the liquid, but the presence of ants indicated that it might possi- 

 bly have a slightly saccharine character, though not sensible to 

 the human tongue. It was diflicult to decide whether this liquid 

 was an exudation from the leaves of the perianth or Avas simply 

 an exercise of the power of condensing moisture in the atmo- 

 sphere which some plants possessed, notal)ly the Pithecdohium 

 Saman, Benth., famous as the " Rain-tree " of Peru, which watered 

 its own roots by the moisture condensed from the atmosphere, 

 thus en!d)ling the tree to live in almost rainless regions, if the 

 reports of travelers are to be fidly credited. He hoi)ed to make 

 further oliscrvatious on the Yucca another year. 



November 9. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons i)resent. 



The resijTuation of Mr. Geo. Vaux as a member of Council was 

 "read and accepted. 




356 proceedings op the academy of [1880. 



November 16. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Fortj^-two persons present. 



The death of Alexander Wilcocks, M. D., a member, was an- 

 nounced. 



The following was unanimously adopted : 



Resolved — That the thanks of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia be presented to Mrs. Isaac Hays for Waugh's 

 excellent portrait of the late President, Isaac Hays, M. D., whose 

 labors and influence during more than sixty 3'ears contributed 

 largely to promote the interests of the society. 



Dioscism in Andromeda Cateshsei, Walter. — Mr. Thos. Meehan 

 remarked that in 1861 he had reported to the Academy the 

 dittjcism of Epigaea^ and he believed this had stood so far the 

 only case of unisexualit}^ reported in the whole of the large order 

 Kricacepe. He said he had now to add another in Andromeda 

 Gatesbsei of Walter, of which he exhibited specimens gathered last 

 year on the Catawba River, in North Carolina. In the course of 

 mau}'^ days' journeyings he had the opportunit}' of examining num- 

 erous plants in many different districts, and they were all either 

 wholly sterile or wholly fertile in separate plants, as in the speci- 

 mens exhibited. Occasionally, as often seen in dioecious plants, 

 a few capsules would be found on the sterile plants, but he could 

 not say whether the seeds in them were perfect. 



Mr. Redfield inquired whether Mr. Meehan had examined the 

 flowers, and found intermediate stages of development in the 

 sexual organs ? 



Mr. Meehan replied, that the plants were out of flower when 

 observed ; that it was the abundant fertility in some plants, and 

 absolute sterility in others that had attracted his attention. From 

 the remains of the few faded flowers he could And on the plants 

 the stamens appeared perfect on the staminate plant, with no trace 

 of pistil or ovarium, while in the fertile plants no trace of stamens 

 could be found about the remains, though it is probable from 

 analogy in Epigfiea^ these organs in the fresh flowers would be 

 found to exist in a rudimentary state. 



On Fresh-water Sponges. — Mr. Potts, continuing the subject of 

 American forms of fresh-water sponges treated of some weeks ago, 

 said that the number of species noticed during the few months in 

 which they had claimed his attention gave some reason to believe 

 that the Order Spongida has many more representatives in our 

 fresh waters than has been generally supposed. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



On a former occasion he had described three species of Sp07ig- 

 illa from a small stream near Philadelphia, one of which, then 

 named S. tentaaperma, but which he now preferred to call S. 

 tenosperma, exhibited features so exceptional as almost to claim 

 for it generic distinction. 



He had since found the S. frag His of Leidy plentifuU}' in the 

 Schuylkill river below the dam, ( Leidy 's original localit}'), and 

 above the dam a lacustrine form differing from that before alluded 

 to. A very slender green species creeping along stems of sphag- 

 num, etc., had been received from a swamp near Absecom, N. J. 

 As it appeared to be entirelj' withoiit spined spicule of either 

 class, he proposed for it the name S. aspinosa. 



From the Adirondack lakes a beautiful species, believed to be 

 identical with S. stag)ialis, Dawson, had been received through 

 the kindness of Prof. H. Allen. Another lacustrine form which 

 yet is not ([uite S. lacustris, was brought from the lake near Cats- 

 kill Mountain House by Professors Cope and Hunt. Its status 

 has not been fully determined. 



From the cellar of an okl ruin at Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania, he 

 had obtained four species, all of which appeared to be new. These 

 were all thin, creeping or encrusting sponges, three of them of 

 the birotulate tj'pe, briefly described as follows : 



S, argyrosperma — seed body or sphreruhv, large, silver-white, 

 densel}^ covered with radial spicule, the shafts of which are long, 

 stout, with numerous long spines, straight or curved ; the rotulae 

 at each end being replaced by 1-4 strong recurved hooks. 



S. repens — found creeping over the stems and leaves of Pota- 

 mogeton ; sphjerula^ also closely covered with spicuLne, shorter and 

 more slender than those of the preceding species ; their shafts 

 nearly smooth, the ra3^s of the rotulfe, six, eight or more, uniformly 

 incurved like the ribs of an umbrella. 



S. astrosperma — the sphairuhv haA'e the appearance of being much 

 smaller than in either of the former species, which is probably due 

 to the fact that the birotulate spicule surrounding the real cap^ 

 sules are very short ; the length of the shaft being less than the 

 diameter of the rays. Thej' are rather sparsely scattered over 

 the surface of the nearl}' transparent sphere, suggesting the name 

 star-seeded. 



The remaining form is considered a variety of 8. fragilis, and 

 called minuta ; sph.erula' much smaller than in the type species, 

 the dermal and superincumbent spicule terminated by sharp points, 

 while in the other they are universally truncate or rounded. 



A more particular description with measurements, etc., is in- 

 tended. 



Mr. Ezra T. Cresson was elected a member of Council, to fill 

 the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Geo. Vaux. 




358 proceedings of the academy of [1880. 



November 23. 

 The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



November 30. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-six persons present. 



Note on the Seed-vessels of Wistaria — Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 remarked tliat most persons knew that special temperatures were 

 required to insure the germination of various seeds. The com- 

 mon chickweed germinated at a little above freezing point, while 

 one of TO'-' was required by most palms. Heat and moisture had 

 also a varying influence on the openijig of seed-vessels, some 

 requiring more or less than othei-s. He exhibited some seed- 

 vessels of Wistaria si7ie7isis and Wistaria fri(tescens, to illustrate 

 the point. A box, four inches deep, with some seed-vessels of 

 Chinese Wistaria was placed on a shelf in a cool room. A fire hap- 

 pened to be made in the room and kept up all night, and the next 

 morning the capsules had burst, and scattered the seeds and open 

 vessels about the room. So great was the force of the expansion 

 that some seeds were projected ten feet from the box. One large 

 seed-vessel had been lifted before opening by one or more beneath, 

 over the four-inch side of the box, and had fallen on the ground 

 at least two feet away from the box in a horizontal line. The few 

 that had been thrown on to the floor by the explosion of their 

 companions did not open, owing to the difference in the tempera- 

 ture of the floor from that of the shelf. Five seed-vessels of each of 

 the two species were then placed together on the shelf, where the 

 temperature of the atmosphere was about 45°. After four days 

 they were examined. The American species had all opened, but 

 without expelling the seeds, which were still attached to the car- 

 pel ; but those of the Chinese Wistaria were still unopened. The 

 Chinese Wistaria required a much higher temperature to open the 

 capsules than the American, though it might be that hygrometri- 

 cal conditions would vary the exact degree required. 



Mr. Martindale observed that the seed-vessels of the Chinese 

 Wistaria were much more indurated and rigid than the American 

 species, and required more force to open them. He had noted 

 that such hard seed-vessels always exerted a greater projectile 

 power when opening. 



C. S. Turnbull, M. D., and J. M. Anders, M. D., were elected 

 members. 




1880.j natural sciences op philadelphia. 359 



December T. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie cliair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



December 14. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirt\-two persons present. 



A paper entitled " On some Lower Eocene Mollusca from Clarke 

 Co., Alabama, with some points as to the stratigraphical position 

 of the beds containing them," by Angelo Heilprin. was presented 

 for pnblication. 



The Phalanges of Bats. — Dr. Allen, in reviewing the manner 

 after whicli tlie phalanges in mammalia are enumerated, spoke of 

 the propriety of inelmling the terminal eart'laginous tip to the 

 fingers, present in many bits, in the series of phalanges. 



Authors do not hesitate in namino- the terminal cartilaue to the 

 second finger in Rhinopoma a phalanx, nor should they, Dr. Allen 

 held, hesitate in so including the terminal segments in other genera. 

 It is interesting to observe that in 3Iolossus perotis the terminal 

 joint in tlie second finger is bony, and anchylosed to the first 

 phalanx. If this plan of numbering the phalanges in bats be 

 accepted, from one to three joints are present in all the fingers. 

 The position taken by recent writers that the Phyllostomidte are 

 distinguished from other families by the presence of the third 

 phalanx to the third finger cannot be sustained, since this phalanx 

 can be counted in other families, the terminal joint, however, re- 

 maining in them cartilaginous. 



December 21. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



Note on a new Northern Gutting Ant. Atta sep!entrionalis. — 

 Dr. McCooK remarked that he had the pleasure of announcing 

 an interesting discovery of a species of cutting ant upon the 

 eastern central coast of the State of New Jersey. The dis- 

 covery was made by Rev. George K. Morris at a new watering 

 place called Island Heights, which is located upon a swelling 

 bluft' on the northern bank of Tom's River, near its mouth, 

 three miles from the Atlantic Ocean, in about Lat. 40° N. 




360 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



Mr. Monis, who has been much interested in 



noting 



the habits 

 of ants, observed this species carrying the needle-like leaves 

 of the pine into their nests, and thereupon followed tlieir 

 behavior until he found it to be quite like that of the cutting 

 ant of Texas, Atia ferveus. Dr. McCook having been informed 

 of the above discover^-, made a journey to Island Heights in 

 the early part of September, 1^80. Unfortunately a severe eastern 

 storm set in before the train reached Tom's River, and con- 

 tinued during his stay with such rigor as utterly to preclude 

 observation of the out-door behavior of the ants. However, 

 b}^ woiking in the storm, protected by rubber garments and a 

 temporary shelter, he was able to make a study of the internal 

 architecture of a nest. 



The opening from the surface appeared to be a single narrow 

 tubular galler}', X, of about two inches in length, which pene- 

 trated the ground at an angle of near 45°, and entered a spherical 

 chamber, V — a sort of vestibule — about Ij inches in diameter. 

 Within this a few ants were found, nothing more. 



This vestibule communicated hy a short gallery, Y, with a 



second chamber or cell, 0, 

 having generally a spheri- 

 cal shape, but more irregu- 

 lar in outline than the ves- 

 tibule. It was about 3 in. 

 in diameter. Within this 

 were several small masses 

 of an ashen-gray, fibrous 

 pulp or papery material, 

 closely resembling that 

 found b}' him in the large 

 cells or caves of the Texas 

 cutting ant.^ This was 

 evidently the leaf-paper 

 formed by the manduca- 

 tion of the pine leaves. It 

 was exceedingly fragile, 

 even more so than the 

 leaf-paper of the Texas 

 Atta,and could not be kept 

 together in the original 

 mass for examination. It 

 appeared, however, to be 

 without the decided cellu- 

 lar arrangement first ob- 

 served b}^ him in the leaf- 

 paper of the Texas ant, 

 whose '• combs " — the analogue of those of other hymenopters, as 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1879, p. 37. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



the bee and wasp — were composed of irregular hexagonal cells of 

 various sizes. 



None of these leaf-paper masses exceeded an inch in height ; 

 they lay upon the floor of the cave, C, or were upheld by the fila- 

 mentous rootlets which penetrated within the liollow, or, more 

 properly speaking, around which the cave had been formed. In 

 this respect also the habit of the northern ant resembles that of 

 the southern. Although, as said, the out-door beliavior of the ant 

 could not be observed Ijy Mr. McCook, the insects iiaving all been 

 driven in-doors by the storm, these were observed to some extent 

 by Mr. Morris, the discoverer, during the summer. Mrs. Mary 

 TVeat also visited the Heiglits and noted the same. From verbal 

 reports received from these persons the analogy between the two 

 insects, in respect of gathering and tiansporting leaves, appears 

 to be quite close. There are many i)oints, however, which remain 

 to be determined accurately, which it is to be hoped will be done 

 next summer. 



The following account was communicated to the speaker by Mr. 

 Morris, and is incorporated, by his permission, in this note : — 



" In answer to your questions I would say, when first observed, 

 there were two columns, one going each way, and moving ver3' 

 deliberately. If alarmed by any rudeness on my part, they sought 

 safety by remaining perfectly motionless for some time, making- 

 it difficult to find them, as they are nearly the color of the dry 

 leaves. 



" Those in the column going homeward were carrying little pieces 

 of the pine needle or leaf, cut from seedling plants about 2 inches 

 high and upwards. In some instances the piece of leaf was not 

 as lono; as the ant itself, but in others it was longer than the 

 bearer. The appearance presented by the cohunn was very singu- 

 lar, for instead of carrying their burdens as other ants do, so far 

 as I have observed, they bore the load on the head, resting in a 

 saddle-like, V-shaped space between ridges on the head, running 

 from the base of the mandible on each side to tne top of the liead. 

 One end was held firmly by the mandibles. T'he eftect at a little 

 distance was to give them a ' shoulder arms ' appearance. 



" Tracing the column back, I readily found tlieir foraging ground 

 a few feet from the formicary. There were the remains of several 

 seedling pines which had been strip])ed and cut doAvn nearly to 

 the ground. Some ants were at work on the only one left stand- 

 ing, and I enjoj'cd the pleasure of witnessing their operations. 

 There la}' on the ground a few pieces, which were picked up, as I 

 watched, and carried awa}'. On the plant there were two at work 

 cutting. Climbing out on a leaf to a position near tlie end, the 

 ant applied her mandibles, and moved around as she cut, until the 

 piece was severed, when she repeated the process, in most cases 

 allowing the severed pieces to fall. One cutter held on to her last 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



cutting, backed down with it, and started off home. In no in- 

 stance have I ever found one of these ants carrying a load of any 

 kind in an^' other way than as described above. Your account of 

 tlie Texas ant would answer as well for this. 



" The little leaf-cutters at Island Heights have no mounds at the 

 entrance to their formicaries. I found many nests, but none 

 with a mound. The sand pellets in every case where I found ants 

 at work were carried off several inches distant on every side and 

 scattered, as if for secrecy. The ants' movements were exceed- 

 ingly deliberate, always. Some seemed overloaded and rested 

 often, but never laid down their load. 



" A.11 the colonies were comparatively small. I was imable tO' 

 find any indication that the}^ were connected one with another. 



•' There is not, so far as my observations go, any elaborate open- 

 ing and closing of gates, such as you describe, but in wet weather 

 I usually found a leaf over the entrance to their nest. 



" The architecture of their caves is a miniature copy of that of 

 3'our Texas cutting ant. 



" I found them cutting only the pine leaf and the leaf of a small 

 shrub called Cow Wheat (Melantpi/rinn omerU aiiuin). Of this 

 plant the^' took the petals also. They carried the dry curled leaf 

 as well as the green and freshly cut. 



" They also carry and incorporate into the nest material the drop- 

 pings of certain larva> that feed on oak leaves." 



Mr. Morris observed at the same place a second and larger form 

 of leaf-cutting ant, which he thinks to be a distinct species ; but. 

 as he was not able to point out any of the nests to Mr. McCook 

 and has not yet made thorough examination, this point remains, 

 to be solved. 



The ant whose economy is described above closel}"^ resembles 

 the famous Aftafei^cens of our southern regions, having the same 

 leaf-brown color and the same characteristic spines. It is distin- 

 guished by a black longitudinal baud along the median dorsal 

 part of the abdomen, and by a similar band along the middle 

 part of the fjxce, marking the furrow formed by two ridges, the 

 prolongation (apparently) of the antennal ridges to the vertex of 

 the caput. A double row of spines extends along the entire tho- 

 rax and nodes, expanding at the prothorax into about four. Two- 

 castes of workers were found, appearing to be the workers major 

 and minor, in length respectively 4 and 3 millimetres, or about 

 one-sixth and one-eighth of an inch. The species appears to be 

 new, and Dr. McCook at least ventured conditionally to name it 

 the Northern Cutting Ant — Atta septentrionalis. 



The discover}^ at so northern a point of this species, with habits 

 quite identical with those of tropical congeners, seemed to the 

 speaker to be a remarkably interesting fact in the distribution of our 

 ant fauna. He was at once impressed by the striking contrast be- 

 tween the vast myriads of workers, the extensive excavations, 

 and the formidable and vigorous activities of the Texas colonies^ 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363^ 



and the small numbers, slight excavations and apparently slug- 

 gish movements of their northern allies. And he could not for- 

 bear the thought that these New Jersey communities of Atta 

 septentj'ionalis seemed like the feeble remnant of a vigorous race 

 left or thrust by some untowai'd change upon unfavorable sites, 

 which must work toward their extinction. 



December 28. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighty persons present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication : — 




•364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



ON SOME NEW LOWER EOCENE MOLLUSCA FROM CLARKE CO. ALABAMA, 



WITH SOME POINTS AS TO THE STRilTIGRAPHICAL POSITION 



OF THE BEDS CONTAINING THEM. 



BY ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



The following species of fossil mollusca, for which I am indebted 

 to Dr. Eugene A. Smith. State Geologist of Alabama, were ob- 

 tained from sections exposed in that State on Knight's Branch 

 and Cave Branch, tributaries of Bashia Creek (Clarke Co.), and 

 from Wood's Bluff on the Tombigbee River, near the mouth of 

 Bashia Creek, and some twenty-eight miles north of St. Stephen's. 

 They occur in probably the oldest marine tertiary deposits of the 

 State, and occupy a horizon nearly parallel with that which is 

 characterized by the fossils of Upper Marlborough and Piscata- 

 w^ay River, Marjdand, and Pamunkey RiA'er, Virginia. The follow- 

 ing enumeration of fossils from the three localities first named, 

 will best illustrate the pala^ontological relations of the beds 

 containing them toward each other, and to the various Eocene 

 deposits of the Atlantic and Gulf slopes : 



Fossils from Knight's Branch. 



Astarte tellinoides, Conr. ( Va?'. A. sulcata, Lea.) 



Cytherea, perovata, Conr. 



Cytherea NnttaUiopsis, Heilpr. sp nov. 



?• Cardita alticoda {Blandinyi)^ Conr. 



Gorbula rugosa, Lam. 



(C. oniscus, Conr; va?: C. gihbosa^ Lea.) 

 Ancillaria (Ancillopsis) subglobosa, Conr. 

 Natica settles, Conr. 

 TurbineMa {Ga^Hcella) Bandoni, Deshayes, sp. 



{Valuta Bandoni, Desh.) 

 Lsevibuccinum lineafum, Heilpr. sp. nov. 

 Rostellaria (Calyptrophorus) trinodifera, Conr. 

 Solarium cupjola, Heilpr. sp. nov. 

 Fusus inter striaius, Heilpr. sp. nov. 

 Fusus sub-tennis, Heilpr. sp. nov. 

 Fusus (Strepsidura) subscalarinus, Heilpr. sp. nov. 

 Tornatella {TornatelWa) bella, Conr. 

 Ostrea. 

 Cylicosmilia. i 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. SQb' 



Fossils from Cave Branch. 



Dentalium micro-dria , Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Natica fetifes, Conr. 



Natica Mississippien sis^ Conr. 



Pyrula muUangulata, Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Pyrula iricoxtata. Desh. 



TurriteUa carinata, Lea. 



Solarium cupola^ Heilpr. sp. nov. 



? Pleurotoma acuminata^ Sowerby. 



Pleurotoma moniliala, Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Ga^ddaria (fragment). Closely allied to C carinata, Lam. 



Voluta (Afhleta) Tuomeyi. Conr. 



Fusus pagodiformis^ Heilpr. 



Fusus interstriafui^^ Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Fusus subfenuis. Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Fusics iStrepstdura) suhscalariuus, Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Leda protexfa, Conr. 



Cardium {Protocardia). Young of G. McoUetif Conr. 



Ostrea (same species as from Knight's Bi'anch). 

 Fossils from Wood's Blurt". 



Dentalium micro-stria, Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Natica limnla, Conr. 



Pyrula midtangulata. Heilpr. sp. nov. 



TurriteUa carinata, Lea. 



Solarium cupola^ Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Solarium deljjhinuloides, Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Gancellaria evulsa, Brauder, sp. 

 ( G. tortiplica ? Conr.) 



Pleurotoma ( Gochlespira ) cristata^ Conr. 



Pleurotoma^ n. sp. 



AnciUaria (Ancillopsis') suhglobosa^ Conr. 



Pseudoliva vetusta, Conr. 



Pseudoliva scalina, Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Voluta (Athleta) Tuomeyi^ Conr. 



Fusus pagodiformis, Heilpr. 



? Fusus (Levifusus) trabeatus^Coui: 



Fusus inter st rial us ^ Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Fusus. n. sp. 



? Gardita alticosta {Blanditigi), Conr. 

 . Leda protexfa, Conr. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Pecten Foulsoni, Morton. 



Ostrea (species difterent from that of Knight's Branch and 

 Cave Branch.) 



From an examination of the above tables it will be seen that a 

 fair proi)ortion of the fossils from Knight's and Cave Branches 

 are held in common by both deposits, and therefore there can be 

 no reasonable doubt that they represent about equivalent horizons. 

 Of the hitherto undescribed forms Gytherea Nuttalliojysia and Lsevi- 

 huccinum lineatuvi appear to have been obtained only at the 

 former, and Pleurotoma moniliata at the latter locality, although 

 it is highly probable that further investigation will reveal their 

 mutual presence in both localities. The described American forms 

 are mainly those occurring at various heights on the Claiborne 

 exposure. A comparison of these forms with those obtained by 

 Tuomey ( First Biennial Report of the Geology of Alabama, p. 

 146) from the Basliia Creek sections near Choctaw Corner, shows 

 the two groups to be of a contemporaneous age, for from bed No. 

 2 of that section Prof Tuomej^ obtained (among others) species 

 of " Ostrea., Gytherea, Cardita^ Cardiuin, BosteUaria, Actseon. 

 Vohita, Infundibulum, and' Solarium,^'' wliich appear to have been 

 identical with the species obtained by Dr. Smith from the two 

 localities above mentioned.' 



1 The siiecies enumerated by Tuomey are Ostrea coinpressirostra, Cardita 

 planicostd, Rostelhtrla vcluta, ArtiEon po)/nHii.s, Vol nUi Say ana? Cardium 

 Nicollctl, undinfundibulfuii trochiforinis. The specimens aj^pear to have been 

 submitted to Mr. Conrad, who considered the determinations of Tuomey as, 

 at least in part, imperfect, and substituted the following specific names {Am, 

 JoxLrri. Science, new series, xl, p. 266) : Ostrea CaroUnensis (species from 

 the Santee Canal, South Carolina), Volutilithes [Athleta] Tuomeyi (de- 

 scribed by Conrad [Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, vi, p. 449] in 185iJ from 

 Bashia C!reek), and Protoairdiu Virginiana ? The following remark in 

 pencil occurs in the volume of Toumey's Reports, contained in the library 

 of the Academy : "All doubtful except VenericAirdia planicosta. T. A. 

 Conrad." Tuomey's Rostellaria tetata and Acta'on pomilivs were in all 

 ■pvdhahiWtY Ixostellaria trinodif era and Tornntella, bella, wliich would better 

 agree with the descriptions of obviously the same fossils as given in Hale's 

 report (C. S. Hale : The Geology of South Alabama, Am. Journ, Science, 

 new series, vi, p. 355). 




1880.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 

 SECTION ON BASHIA CREEK. 



367 



(Tuomey : First Biennial Report, p. 145.) 

 Note.— Beds 5 and 6 do not properly belong to the section, but "repre- 

 sent beds seen on another part of the stream below the preceding." (Loc. 

 cit. p. 146.) 



The fossils from Wood's Bluff, some 15 miles W. of Choctaw 

 Corner, were obtained by Dr. Smith from a bed of indurated 

 jrreen sand rising about 10-15 feet above water line, which bed may 

 possibly represent the lowermost portion of bed No. 2 of the 

 Bashia- section. Some support is given to this view by the cir- 

 cumstance that at this point— Wood's Bluff — the basal lignite 

 (which in the above named section has a thickness of G feet) has 

 disappeared, and more especiall}' (at least, as showing it to possess 

 a distinctive character) by the general fades of the representative 

 molluscous fauna. Although there exists a close similarity be- 

 tween the general assemblage of its fossils and those of the two 

 *' Branches " of Bashia Creek, yet the numljer of peculiar forms is 

 considerably greater, and consequently the aggregate i)ossesses a 

 much more decided iudividualitj' than obtains with either of the de- 

 posits in question. Moreover, I am informed b}' Dr. Smith that 

 the fossil fauna of Knight's and Cave Branches corresponds most 

 closely with that of btid No. 4 ' of the Wood's Bluff section, an 

 aluminous deposit about :21-26 feet above water le^-el, and con- 

 taining species of Denfalium, TornateUa^ Solarium, Turritella, 

 and Boi^lellaria identical with forms from the two first named 

 localities. The disappearance of tlie basal lignites at Wood's 



^ Section as yet unpublished, but communicated by letter to the author. 




868 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Bluff may be accounted for on the supposition that they have 

 dipped under, whicii would be in harmony with what we know 

 concerning the dip of the beds in this region. This is but locally 

 or at best, but partially indicated in Tuomey's reports, but judg- 

 ing from the contour lines of the cretaceous formation on the 

 general maps appended to the first and second Reports, and from 

 the north and south sections on the map of 1849, as well as from 

 the facts obtained in Mississippi, it must be in a direction west of 

 the southern line, or in other words, S. by W. Dr. Smith has 

 found the loss by dip in a southerly direction on the Tombigbee 

 River to be about 10 feet to the mile, which accords well with . 

 Hilgard's observations on the Upper Eocene and Oligocene forma- 

 tions of Mississippi.^ 



From pala?ontological evidence alone the three exposures in 

 question might readily be taken to represent rather an Upper than 

 a Lower Eocene horizon, for in addition to the species typical of 

 the American Middle Eocene, or Claiborne group proper ( Calca- 

 reous Claiborne of Hilgard), and to the new or undescribed forms, 

 we have the following which have not been hitherto recognized as 

 belonging to the formation, and which, on the contrary, were 

 originally described (at least the majority of them) from deposits 

 of newer date. 



Caricella (Voluta) Bandoni, Deshaye?, sp. {Aniiiian.ic s. Vert'br., lidnKin de P<iiix, 

 II, PI. 1(12, tigs. 13 aud 14), frDiu the " caloaire grossier," Middle Eocene of most 

 geologists, Upper Eocene of Judd. Knighi's Branch. 



Natica Mississippiensis, Cuurad (J. A. X. S. 2d series, i, p. 1 14), originally described 

 from the \'icksburg (<)ligocene) group, but also foind in the .Jackson ( Upper 

 Eocene) deposits. Cave Branch. 



Pleurotoma acuminata, Sowc by (Mineral Conchology, Vol. ii, p. 105), from the 

 London Clay of Highgate (Lower Eocene of most geologists, Middle Eocene of 

 .ludd), and Barton clay (Upper Eocene)? (I have bad no specimens of this species 

 with which to institute direct comparisons, but from a careful examination of 

 Sowerby's and E<lvvards' figures and descriptions there appear to me to be no 

 justifiable grounds for se])arating the species figured on PI. 2(1, tig. 10, from its 

 European ally. Cave Branch. 



Pyrula tricostata, Doshayes (('<><iiiiUm Fosxil «, ii, p. 584), from Retheuil and Uuise- 

 Laraothe, Middle Eccene (Suessonian of d'Orbigny). Cave Branch. 



^ Hilgard fovind the dip of the Jackson and Vicksburg strata to be from 

 10 to 13 feet per mile S. by W., at "points where the great regularity of 

 succession for a considerable distance seemed to indicate a normal config- 

 uration." (A. J. Science, new series, xliii, p. 36.) 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPmA. 369 



Pecten Poulsoni, Morton (Synopsis Org. Rem. Cret. Group, p. 59), a companion of 

 Orbitoiden Mant-Ui, Mort. sp., and, according to Ililgard, an enseutialli/ Vicks- 

 burg (Oligoeene) fossil. Wood's Bhiff. 



Cancellaria evulsa, Sowerby [rjuccinum evulaum, Brander] (Miner. Conchol., iv, p. 

 84), from tlie Barton clay (Upper Eocene) of England, and Grignon ("Calcaira 

 grossier") of France. i Wood's Bluff. 



Pleurotoma (Cochlespira) cristata, Conr. (J. A. N. S., 2d ser. i, p. 115), originally 

 described from the Vicksburg group, but doubtful whether differing from the 

 Pleurotoma bella, Conr., from the Upper Eocene of Texas. Wood's Bluff. 



In addition to the above, tliere is among the fossils from Wood's 

 Bluff an immature Gardium (Protocardia)^ which may possibly 

 represent the young of C. Nicolleti (Jackson group), with which 

 it agrees in outline and general ornamentation, or that of G. Vir- 

 giniana, Conr. (Pamunkey River), an undescribed species, but of 

 vrhich a labeled specimen is in the collections of the Academy. 

 The absence of asperulations on the posterior slope of the speci- 

 men in question, however, rendering it uncertain whether they 

 were ever present, or whether they are merely abraded or water- 

 worn, allows of no absolute specific determination. 



Whatever ma}' be the palseontological facies of the deposits in 

 question, however, there can be no reasonable doubt as to their 

 true position, since Dr. Smith, as he informs me, has traced bed 

 No. 6 (or the uppermost bed immediately underlying the stratified 

 drift) of his Wood's Bluff section to the mouth of Witch Creek, 

 about 2 miles below on the Tombigbee River, where its relation to 

 the overlying " Buhrstone " is made manifest in an exposure just 

 beyond the mouth of the creek. White Bluff, about 250 to 275 

 feet in height, beautifully exhibits the white siliceous clay stones 

 and silicified shells so characteristic of the southern Buhrstone 

 formation. These occupy the uppermost portion of the l)luti', and 

 make up fully 100 feet of its vertical height; the intermediate 

 portion extending to the water's level, is mainly composed of 

 laminated lignitic clays, with occasional intercalated beds of pure 

 lignite. It becomes manifest from what has just been stated that 

 the fossiliferous beds of Wood's Bluff {et conseq. the equivalent 

 deposits on Knight's and Cave Branches and Bashia Creek) must 

 be between 150 and 200 feet below the base of the Buhrstone 



' A very closely allied species, the Tritoniuvi{!) jiaucivaricatum of Gabb, 

 occurs in the Tejon group (Upper Cretaceous — Eocene?) of California, 

 associated with C'nrdita planicosta. and other characteristic forms of Ter- 

 tiary fossils. 



25 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



(Siliceous Clairborne of Hilgard) tbnnation, or what has hitherto 

 been considered as the base of the Eocene formation in South 

 Carolina. Allowing a uniform southerly dip of 10 feet to the 

 mile, these same beds must be about 250 to 280 feet below the 

 "bed of green sand" mentioned by Tuomey (1st Biennial Report, 

 p. 148) as occurring at Baker's Bluff, a few miles above St. 

 Stephens, (stated to be " rich in organic remains, identical with 

 the fossils of Claiborne ") and which, immediately above St. 

 Stephens (Tuomey, Joe cit., p. 149), dips beneath the water-line. 

 This approximate determination of position agrees closely with 

 the observations made in the northeastern portion of the county, 

 for Dr. Smith found by actual barometric measurements that the 

 "chalk hills" (Buhrstone) near Lower Peach Tree on the Ala- 

 bama River, and at a locality about 1 to 8 miles south of Choctaw 

 Corner, were about 250 feet above Knight's and Cave Branches, 

 and the marl bed (No. 2) of Tuomey's Bashia section. 



Whether these older Eocene deposits underly the blufl' at Clai- 

 borne has not yet been proved, but it is but fair to presume that 

 they do. Likewise, it remains to be shown what relation the basal 

 lignite on Bashia Creek bears to the "Northern Lignite" of 

 Hilgard. 



CYTHEREA, Lam. 



Cytherea Nuttalliopsis, n. sp. PI. 20, fig. 1. 



Shell sub-elliptical, moderately ventricose, its surface covered 

 with fine concentric striae, which are apt to become roughly im- 

 bricate on the basal margin ; umbones not very prominent, rather 

 anterior ; lunule cordate, deeply impressed at about its middle, its 

 outline clearly pronounced by a sharply impressed line ; posterior 

 extremity regularly rounded, the anterior somewhat produced ; 

 margin entire ; pallial sinus somewhat angular, pointing toward 

 the centre of the shell. 



Ijength, 1^ inch. Knight's Branch, Clarke Co., Ala. 



This species most resembles among American species of Cy- 

 therea the C. NuttalU, Conr., from which it may be distinguished 

 by the greater production forward of the anterior extremity, and 

 by the median depression in the lunule. In this last character it 

 agrees with G. Poulsoni, Conr., from which, however, it very 

 materially differs in form, and in the much lesser development of 

 the umbones. 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



PSEUDOLIVA, Swainson. 

 Pseudoliva scalina, n. >■]>. PI. 20, lig 12. 



Shell l)iiccinifonn, of about seven volutions ; the whorls rouglily 

 l)licated ; the folds on the bod}' whorl apjiearing as shoulder no- 

 dules ; dentiferous sulcus well pronounced, followed by about five 

 impressed revolving lines, which slightlj' crenulate the margin of 

 the outer lip ; revolving lines on the Ijodj'-whorl above the sulcus 

 almost obsolete ; aperture slightly exceeding the spire in length ; 

 columella callous ; suture deeply channeled. 



Length, H inch. Wood's Blutf, Clarke Co., Ala. 



L.EVIBUCCINUM, Ouna . 

 (Amer. Jour. Couchol., i, p. 21. Genus uot characterized.) 

 Shell having the general form of Metula, H. & A. Adams, but 

 destitute of all traces of a jiosterior canal ; aperture between bucci- 

 niform and fusiform, about the length of the spire. This, genus 

 is distinct from Bucciy^anops of d'Orbigny, under which the Buc- 

 cinnm (Laevibuccinum) prorsum^ Conr., is erroneously classed in 

 the Pi'odrome de Paleontoloc/ie , ii, p. 369. 



Laevibuccinum lineatum, n. s] . PI. 2i', fig. 5. 



Shell fusiform, of about seven convex volutions, which are 

 throughout their whole extent covered by fine, but distinct, re- 

 volving lines ; aperture slightl}^ exceeding the spire in length, 

 sub-canaliculate anteriorly; columella gently arcuate; outer lip 

 striate within. 



Length, 1 inch. Knight's Branch, Clarke Co., Ala. 



This species mainly ditters from the L. prorsum, Conr., in 

 having the revolving lines equally distinct over the entire surface 

 of the whorls. The Murex {Fusus et Buccinum auct.) mitree- 

 f or mis of Brocchi, from the Oligocene and Miocene deposits of 

 France, Austria, and Ital}', is a closely related species. 



FUSUS, Lamarck. 

 Fusus subtenuis, n. .'^p. PI. 20, fig. 4. 



Shell fusiform, of about seven sub-angular volutions ; whorls 

 ornamented with somewhat obscure longitudinal folds, about twelve 

 on the body-whorl, which are cut by several prominent revolvinof 

 ridges commencing at the shoulder angulation ; shoulder of the 

 whorls more or less smooth, with an obscure median revolving line, 

 and a prominent sub-sutural one ; aperture about the length of the 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



spire, or slightlj- exceeding it, tlie canal gently curved, moderately 

 contracted, and somewhat expanding at the extremity ; outer lip 

 thin, and showing internally the external ornamentation ; base with 

 numerous revolving lines, which alternate in coarseness. 



Length, 1^ inch. Kniglit's Branch ; Cave Branch, Clarke Co., 

 Alabama. 



Fusus interstriatus, n. sp. PI. 20, fig. 11. 



Shell fusiform, slender, composed of about ten convex volutions, 

 the first three of which are smooth ; whorls ornamented with both 

 longitudinal plications and revolving lines, the last of which (about 

 eight in the upper whorls) alternate with finer intermediate stride ; 

 the longitudinal plications distinct on the earlier whorls, but 

 becoming much less so on the body-whorl, and the one preceding ; 

 aperture about the length of spire ; the canal somewhat tortuous ; 

 outer lip thin, dentate within. 



Length, 2 inches. Knight's Branch ; Cave 'Branch, Clarke Co., 

 Alabama. 



Subgenus HEMIFUSUS? 



Fusus (Hemifusus T) engonatus, n. sp. PI. 20, lig. 8. 



Shell turreted, of about ten volutions, the first three whorls 

 smooth and convex, the remainder strongly carinated, and tra- 

 versed by numerous fine revolving lines, which on the median 

 portion of the body -whorl alternate with intermediate finer stride ; 

 body-whorl impressed immediately below the carination (shoulder 

 angulation) ; lines of growth sinuous, and approximating the 

 characteristic lines of the Pleurotomidae ; aperture considerably 

 exceeding the spire in length; columella slightly arcuate, and 

 presenting a rudimentary fold at a))out its central portion. 



Length, 1^ inch. Wood's Bluff; Clarke Co., Ala. 



This species resembles the Fusus bifascialus of Deshayes 

 {Animaux sans Vertebres, Bassin de Paris, II, pi. 84, figs. 15 and 

 16) from the Paris basin, but may be readily distinguished from 

 that species by its more slender form. 



Subgenus STREPSIDURA, Swaiuson. 

 Fusus (Strepsidura) subscalarinus, n. sp. Pi. 20, fig. 7. 



Shell somewhat bucciniform, whorls about eight, sub-angular, 

 the first three or four smooth, the remainder ornamented with 

 both longitudinal costae and revolving striae, the latter showing a 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



tendenc\^ to alternate in size ; the costte are arcuate, not in a 

 regular continuous series, those on the body-whorl extending 

 considerably below the middle of the whorl ; aperture about the 

 length of spire, the canal somewhat reflected ; columella covered 

 with a callous deposit, considerably twisted ; outer lip dentate 

 within. 



Length. 1 inch. Knight's Branch; Cave Branch, Clarke Co., 

 Alabama. 



This species greatly resembles the Fusus scalarinus of Deshayes 

 (Goquilles Fossiles, II, p. 574, PI. LXXIII, figs. 21 and 2S), but 

 may be distinguished by the lesser prominence of its costse, and 

 b}^ the presence of well defined striae over the entire surface of 

 the whorls. In this last respect, as well as in the subangulated 

 form of the whorls, it also differs from the Fusus acalariformis, 

 Nyst (CoquiUes et Poh/piers Fossiks, p. 504, PI. XL, figs. 5a, 6), 

 from Lethen, Belgium. 



TURBINELLA, Lamarck. 



Subgenus CARICELLA, r^onrad, 

 Turbinella (Caricelia) Bandoni, Desha}'ps, sp. PI. 20, fig. 15. 



The large species of Caricelia from Knight's Branch agrees sa 

 closely with the figures of Volata B a ndoni^ J) esh. (Animaux sans 

 Vertebres, Bassin de Paris, II, pi. 102, figs. 13 and 14), from the 

 Paris basin, that I do not feel justified in considering it a distinct 

 species. The American form ajipears to have been somewhat 

 more elevated, but this is probabl}^ no more than a varietal cir- 

 cumstance. 



Length, 4 inclies. Knight's Branch, Clarke Co., Ala. 



PLEUROTOMA. 

 Pleurotoma moniliata, n. sp. PI. 20, fig. 9. 



Shell fusiform, elevated, of about eight volutions, the whorls 

 considerably contracted above the shoulder ; whorls ornamented 

 with a double series of nodes, the lower much the most strongly 

 developed, which giA^es to the upper portion of the spire a monili- 

 form appearance ; surface of entire shell traversed by fine revolving 

 lines, which become more distant, very prominent, and alternate 

 on the median portion of the body-whorl ; aperture about the 

 length of spire ; the relative position of the upper and lower nodes 

 corresponds to the sinuous lines of growth. 



Length, 1 inch. Cave Branch, Clarke Co., Ala. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Pleurotoma acuminata T Powerby. PI. 20, fig. 10. 



(Minei-al Conchology, II, p. 10"'.) 



Shell fusiform, acuminate, of about nine volutions ; whorls flat- 

 tened, longitudinally plicated and traversed by fine revolving lines, 

 which become crowded on the concave upper portion of the whorls, 

 and alternate on the basal portion of the body-whorl ; suture bor- 

 dered inferiorly by an elevated line, which is somewhat crenulated 

 by the sinuous lines of growth ; aperture less than one-half the 

 length of shell. 



Length, 1 inch. Cave Branch, Clarke Co., Ala. 



This Pleurotoma corresponds ver}- closely with the descriptions 

 and figures of P. acuminata as given by Sowerb}^ in the " Mineral 

 Conchology," and by Edwards in his monograph of the English 

 Eocene mollusca ( Palfeontographical Society'- Reports, 1854, p. 

 230, pi. xxvii, figs. 3a, 6, c, d), and will probably prove, on direct 

 comparison, to be referable to that species. 



PYRULA, Lamarck. 

 [Ficula, Swainson. ) 



Pyrula multangulata, n. sp. PI. 20, fig. 2. 



« 



Shell elongated, sub-claviform ; apex of spire obtuse, consist- 

 ing of three smooth volutions ; whorls about seven, covered with 

 revolving stria?, which are very fine on the upper portion and 

 shoulder of the body -whorl, but less so and attenuate on the basal 

 portion ; body-whorl occupying about three-fourths of the entire 

 shell, marked b}^ two prominent and one lesser carinse, and a 

 sino-le row of crenulations on the shoulder angulation ; the fourth 

 whorl (the first one bearing ornamentation) appears cancellated ; 

 columella curved. 



Length. 1 inch. CaA^e Branch; Wood's Bluft', Clarke Co., Ala. 



Pyrula tricostata, Deshaye?. PI. 20, fig. 6. 



(Coquilles Fossiles, ii, p. 584, Atlas, PI. 79, figs. 10 and 11.) 

 Although I have no specimen of Pyrula tricostata for direct 

 comparison, I have, nevertheless, but very little hesitation in 

 referring the Alabama form above figured to the same species, as 

 it agrees in all essential respects with the figures and descriptions 

 of that form as given by Deshayes in the Coquilles Fossiles. 

 Three unnamed specimens of a Pyrula in the Academy collection 

 from Dax, France, which I believe to be the P. clava (Oligocene?) 

 of Basterot, somewhat resemble the Alabama species, but are 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



•comparatively much move robust, and have the costal nodes and 

 revolving stria? considerably' more developed. 



SOLARIUM, Lamarck. 

 Solarium cupola, n. sp. PI. 20, fig. 14. 



Shell convexlA-^ conical, moiuid-like, of about five volutions ; 

 whorls ornamented with alternating coarse and very fine concen- 

 tric lines, and appearing double from a medial impression (the 

 shell apparently- of twice the number of volutions that it actually 

 possesses) ; base similarly ornamented as the upper surface, con- 

 vex, and strongly margined by the prolongation inferiorly of the 

 outer wall ; umbilical margin finely crenulated, the umbilicus 

 broadly open, and exhibiting the concentrically striated internal 

 volutions of the apex ; aperture rhomboidal. 



Length, | inch ; diameter, 1;^ inch. Cave Branch ; Knight's 

 Branch ; Wood's Bluff, Clarke Co., Ala. 

 Solarium delphinuloides, n. pp. PI. 20, fig. 13. 



Shell convexly conical, of about seven volutions ; the whorls 

 ornamented with several beaded revolving lines, two or more of 

 which near the upper margin, and one near the basal margin being 

 the most prominently defined; base convex, sub-marginall}' chan- 

 neled, and ornamented with numerous finely beaded revolving 

 lines, which become most prominent in the umbilical region; um- 

 bilical volutions distinct to the apex, transverseh' striated, super- 

 medially carinated ; umbilical margin crenulated ; aperture sub- 

 circular. 



Length, ^ inch ; diameter, f inch. Wood's Bluft\ Clarke Co., Ala. 



DENTALIUM, L. 



Dentalium micro-stria, n. sp. PI 20, fig. 3. 



Shell slender, considerably curved and greatly attenuated, 

 faintly striated, the stritB most conspicuous on the attenuated 

 portion ; posterior aperture entire, there being no fissure ; anterior 

 aperture circular. 



Length, 1| to 2 inches. Cave Branch ; Wood's Blufi", Clarke 

 Co., Ala. 



fusus pagodiformis (Plriiroinma .' pagodi, Heilpr., Proceedings of the U. S. Nii- 

 tional Museuiu, 1880), si.ecific name /<a(/o(/« pre-occupiod by Adains and ReeTe. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



THE SHINING SLAVEMAKER.— NOTES ON THE ARCHITECTURE AND 



HABITS OF THE AMERICAN SLAVE-MAKING ANT, 



POLYERGUS LUCIDUS. 



By Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 



August 21st, 18*78, at the foot of the Allegheny Mountains, near 

 Altoona (Bellwood, Pa.), I discovered a nest of Polyergus lucidus^ 

 Mayr, the American representative of the well-known European 

 P. rufescens. The latter is the Amazon or Legionary Ant of 

 Huber, and is associated with that author's discovery of compound 

 ant-hills, the term applied to those nests in which certain ants 

 have associated witli them, in a sort of slavery, ants of another 

 species. Huber made a full and interesting account of the pred- 

 atory excursions of P. rufesans^^ and other interesting behavior, 

 which Forel- has recently fully confirmed and completed. It is, 

 however, of interest, to discover the existence of tlie same habits 

 in a elosel}^ allied species in America, and this record is therefore 

 presented. Moreover, there are here some details of architecture 

 which maj^ prove of value in themselves. 



The nest of Lucid us above referred to was situated in the 

 gravelly soil of a valley between the mountains and the Juniata 

 River. Tlie field was sown in clover, and had not been plowed for 

 several years. While passing through the field, I observed several 

 ants resembling at first sight the common mound-makers, i^ormtca 

 exsectoides, issuing from a hole. I stopped to note them more 

 carefully and saw a worker of Pohjergui^ lucidus come out and 

 return to the same nest. I at once began an exploration of the 

 nest, as my time was limited, and professional duties prevented 

 extended studies of tlie out-door habits of tire creatures. There 

 were four gates (fig. 1, PI. 19), separated a few inches from each 

 other. Two were simple tubular openings into tlie ground, about 

 three-fourths of an inch in diameter ; the others were two similar 

 openings removed several inches from the first named, and united 

 by a worn concave road, like a half tube. The four were arranged 

 upon the arc of a circle. The nature of the soil, which was filled 

 with coarse gravel and stones, prevented me from noting (as per- 



1 " Natural History of Ants, " Johnson's translation. London, 1830. 

 ^ "Les Fourmis de la Suisse." 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3YT 



haps it liad prevented the ants from making) any orderly arrange- 

 ment of galleries and rooms in stories. But chambers were 

 discovered, placed one above the other, united by tubular galleries^ 

 and extending down at least twenty-two inches, the depth to which 

 the excavation was canned. The general character of these may be 

 shown b}' the following examples. Twelve inches from the sur- 

 face the trowel uncovered an opening into a cavity. By gently 

 removing the earth, a similar opening was made just opposite 

 (fig. 2, PL 19). When the little bridge between the two was cut 

 away there was exposed an ovoid room (fig. 3, PI. 19), in which 

 were a number of ants, chiefly males and females of Lucidus. 

 The room was an inch high at the middle, and an inch and a half 

 across from wall to wall ; a tubular gallery led from it into the 

 earth beyond. Another chamber, found at ten inches below the 

 surface, was a large irregular cavity, which appeared, on removing 

 a smooth stone, flush up against which it had been mined (fig. 4, 

 PI. 19). It was three inches long, one inch and a quarter high, at 

 the highest point, and extended inward at the deepest point nearly 

 two inches. The line of the roof against the stone was irregular, 

 falling to seven-eighths of an inch to five-eighths, rising to seven- 

 eighths, and at one end terminating in a gallery-like extension of 

 half an inch. A gallery opened downward near the stone and one 

 opened inward at the innermost point. This chamber was also 

 occupied chiefly by males and females. This suflficiently charac- 

 terizes the internal architecture. 



Mingled with the Lucidus ants, in large numbers were workers 

 in three forms, major, minor, and dwarf, of the species Formica 

 Schauff'iissi. 



August 23d, the excavated nest was visited, and these ants were 

 found to be busy in part upon the galleries, which they were clean- 

 ing out, dragging the pellets of sand to the opening with the 

 design apparently of closing them. None of the Lucidus ants 

 were engaged in this work. Another portion of the slaves was 

 engaged in an extensive migration.' A few of the slaves were 

 carr3'ing their fellows, but for the most part the deportation was con- 

 fined to the males and females of Lucidus. The manner in which 

 the latter were seized and carried oif was well observed and is as 

 follows : The slave approached the winged queen (for example) 



^ I have referred to this migration in " The Agricultural Ant of Texas,' 

 p. 154. 




STS PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



and after the usual toucliino; and crossinof of antenna; the man- 

 dibles were tightly interlocked (fig. 5, PL 19 ) ; the head of the slave 

 was then raised, and simultaneousl}- the body of the queen drawn 

 back, stretched quite out in a straight line, and then doubled under, 

 the abdomen being thrown upward apparently resting against the 

 lower part of the face and the fore-part of the thorax (fig. 6, PI. 

 19). In this i)osition the large virgin queens were carried up the 

 perpendicular face of the cutting for eighteen or twenty inches, and 

 then for the distance of six feet over the ground and through the 

 grass. The time consumed in this journey was a few seconds over 

 one minute. I frequently observed this carrying of the workers of 

 Lucidus, in the artificial colonies which I afterw^arcls formed and 

 brought to Philadelphia. The process was substantially^ the 

 same, although often the master was simply dragged along the 

 surface. Moie than once a slight opposition was made to this 

 treatment. The slaves, or at least certain individuals of them (for 

 I am persuaded that ants have their personal peculiarities of dis- 

 position and moods like larger animals) seemed at times to have 

 a prejudice against the presence of the Lucidus ants above ground, 

 and would unceremoniously seize them and carry them below. I 

 have seen a master or more properly " mistress," thus served 

 several times, each time returning in a dogged sort of resistance 

 to the will of her servitor. These emmet mistresses too, appar- 

 ently know something of the bitterness of bondage to a capricious 

 domestic " help." 



The wonderful muscular force of the grip which Lucidus takes 

 with her mandibles was thus illustrated : One worker had for 

 some reason fallen under the displeasure of another, who held her 

 firmly grasped by the middle thorax. Anxious to preserve my 

 colony from unnecessary loss, I lifted the fwo out on the point of 

 a quill toothpick, laid them in my hand, and thrust the fine point 

 of the quill betw^een the jaws of the aggressor, and so teased her 

 until she released her hold of her fellow. The rescued ant in- 

 stantly clasped the palm of my hand, threw her abdomen under, 

 and thus with back curved up like an angry cat, sawed and tugged 

 at the skin until an abrasion had been made. While watching 

 this operation the other ant was still clinging to the quill, and to 

 lier I next turned my attention. She was holding fast in her 

 mandibles the point of the toothpick, with her body stretched 

 straight out into space, her limbs stretched outward, except one 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



hind leg, which was a little bent upward. Thus, without an,y per- 

 ceptible siippoi't, except that which her jaws gave her upon the 

 quill i)oint, she hung outstretched for several minutes. How 

 long she would have kept this position I know not, for I dropped 

 her into the nest b}' clipping off with scissors the i)oint of the 

 quill, which, after hugging fiercely for a while, she finally abandoned 

 as an unresponsive and unworthy foe. 



In the course of the above migration, one queen was seen to 

 resist carriage so vigorously that she was finally dropped, and, 

 refusing to give the slave a hold upon the mandibles, was seized 

 b^^ the wing and dragged off. The Lucidus ants seemed to have 

 no Aolition in nor direction of this movement. I released a num- 

 ber from their porters during various stages of the transit, who 

 alwaj's wandered about with a confused, aimless and irritated 

 manner until again seized and borne off by slaA'es. 



The locality to which the formicary was being thus transported 

 was about six feet distant from the gates of the original nest. It 

 was either an old nest or a portion of the one just disturbed. The 

 quarters at least appeared to have been formerl}" prepared and 

 occupied. The gates of the nest were placed in one sloping side 

 and in the angle of a deep cross-furrow, and were quite well con- 

 cealed by tall grass and clover, tufts of sheep-shaw and various 

 small weeds (see fig. T). In the angle of the furrow was a cleft 

 in the earth nearly two inches long, one end of which was rounded 

 into a gate of the size and character of those first described, and 

 at the other end into a smaller similar vertical tube. This entrance 

 was so well concealed by grass that I did not see it for some time 

 (fig. 8, PL 19). Tsvo and a half inches diagonally above this was 

 a lateral cleft, three inches long, from a half to three-fourths of an 

 inch high, and penetrating into the earth laterally at various points 

 by galleries. The stalks of grass growing upon the side of the 

 slope above sent down their roots through the roof of this cleft vesti- 

 bule into the floor. On one side of the cleft, half an inch above it, 

 was an entrance, with a dome-shaped vestibule. On the other side, 

 three inches above, was a fourth gate, opening under a round 

 stone. While some slaves were engaged in deporting their For- 

 mica fellows and Polyergus associates into the new home, others 

 were busy bringing out sti'aws and sand as though preparing the 

 galleries and chambers Avithin. Occasionall}- a Lucidus worker 

 would show herself for a moment at the gate with outreaclied 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880, 



antennae and open mandibles, as though on the watch for intruderSj 

 and then slowly return to the interior. 



September lYth, twenty-scA^en days after the discovery of this 

 formicary, I was again at Bellwood, and revisited it. The new 

 nest seemed to be deserted ; the ground around the gates seemed 

 to have been recently disturbed by a visitor, and no ants were 

 visible. The old nest, however, was abundantly peopled, and 

 numbers were found two and a half feet below the surface, from 

 which I was enabled to gather a large colony of slaves and workers 

 ofLucidus. The winged forms were gone. Mr. Edgar Kay, who 

 had assisted me in the excavations at the first visit, and had kept 

 an eye upon the nest, reported that a few days after my departure 

 (in the latter part of August), he had seen one male and several 

 females taking flight. They perched upon grasses, etc., and thence 

 flew eastward, at a height of forty or fifty feet, to the end of the 

 field, some 300 feet distant. It is probable that after this marriage 

 flight of the sexes, the workers returned to the old home. 



After these ants were colonized, I was able to observe several 

 facts, chiefly eonfirmator}- of those recorded b^' Huber, Forel and 

 others, of the European Polyergus. The masters never work: the 

 colony was changed several times in order to incite to new work 

 in mining galleries and rooms ; clusters of Lucidus were placed by 

 themselves ; alwa^^s they remained idle. The slaves wrought with 

 the greatest industry and energy as long as there was any need ; 

 the masters would crowd into the galleries, and move about in an 

 aimless way, but I never could trace any attempt either at direct- 

 ing or aiding in the work. So also I never saw one attempt to 

 eat. Sugar was fed freel}'^ and the slaves freely partook, until 

 the}" became gorged, and their abdomens grew transparent with 

 the pouched supph^ of liquid sweets. The masters strode over 

 the grains of sugar, and even when I had supposed that I had pre- 

 pared them with a good appetite b}^ previous fasting, they partook 

 of nothing. Yet tlie^- are in good condition, and evidently well 

 fed. They doubtless are fed b}' the workers who must disgorge 

 the food, as when feeding larvae, callows, males, females, and even 

 each other. I have, however, never yet seen the actual passing of 

 nutriment from one to another, although often observing Lucidus 

 and Schauffussi in the posture which is commonl^^ assumed 

 when this mode of conveying food is being practiced. 



In galleries and rooms the Lucidi hang upon the sides or to the 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



ceiling, or are snugged in little clusters with the slaves. In 

 changing formicaries they were found thus rolled together in 

 balls, slaves and masters — or more properly, mistresses, for all 

 workers are undeveloped females — mingled in a promiscuous mass. 



One such change was made October 14th, the weather at the 

 time being chillj-, and the furnaces not yet fired in the house. 

 But little eftbrt was made to dig new galleries until evening, when 

 I warmed up the glass globes b}- a gas-lamp. My experience here 

 has been quite the opposite of Ruber's, who took such pains to 

 keep his artificial nests of P. rufescens from the light. Just as 

 with my agricultural ants, so P. lucidus at once turned to the 

 genial warmth and light, gathering in a great ball within the com- 

 fortable glow. A few of the slaves mounted the glass in the 

 warmest place to be found. As often as 1 would revolve the globe, 

 the cluster of snu^ffing; ants would unravel and transfer itself in 

 new mass upon the side toward the flame. The slaves also cheer- 

 lully work on the side toward the light, and indeed seem to prefer 

 to do so. 



Lucidus cleanses herself quite freely, but also I have very 

 frequently seen her soliciting the slaves to this service, who some- 

 times consent, and go over the bodj- from antenn* to abdomen, 

 licking and scraping it. The need of this service especially 

 appeared upon examining a dead Lucidus. Its body at various 

 parts was covered with minute white, ovoid objects, apparently 

 parasite eggs. I thought them parasites, but could discover no 

 trace of life, or appearance of being living creatures. One seemed 

 to be suspended to the ant's body by a thread-like attachment. 

 Man}' of the slave-makers are thus aftected. While taking out the 

 colony one slave was found upon wliieh were fastened two small 

 white insects, apparently mites, which I could not then examine, 

 and unfortunately lost among ni}- specimens. I have often ob- 

 served ants to be infested with mites in natural site, and particu- 

 larly in artificial nests. The greatest care is required to keep 

 them in healthy condition while in confinement. The admirable 

 structural provision for cleansing the person given to ants,' is 

 certainly needed in view of the liability to such dangers. 



The listless, heavy manner that is characteristic of Lncidus in 

 common, is Avholly changed at any alarm, or the presence of an 

 enemy. Her true character and duty to the community then 



' See " Agricultural Ant of Texas," p. 130. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



appear. Various experiments established the fact that some of 

 . these slave-makers (apparently) always keep on guard, and that 

 certainl}' some are ready to spring at once to repel any attack. 

 For exami)le, one of the slave-making Formica .'^angumea, found 

 in the same neighborhood, was dropped into the Polyergus colony. 

 The hostile presence was instantly discerned and a Lucidus 

 worker sprung upon the Sanguinea and seized her near the throat. 

 Several slaves ran to the fray, and took part by seizing legs and 

 antennae of the intruder. Xot wishing such an unequal conflict, I 

 lifted the principal combatants out, having teased away the others, 

 and set them down to fight it out fairl}-. Lucidus had Sanguinea 

 grasped by the face at the eye with her mandibles when first 

 removed. . This was not satisfactory, for she began cautiously 

 and deftly to release her hold, preparing herself meanwhile, so 

 that with a quick snap she seized her foe by the neck, then turned 

 up the abdomen, and, as I suppose, ejected poison upon the face 

 and mouth of Sanguinea. I separated the two before either had 

 been mortally hurt. However, Lucidus had lost the flagellum 

 of one antenna. I put lier back into her nest. The battle-scarred 

 warrior had no sooner struck the soil which she had so gallantl}' 

 defended, than she was violentl}^ seized by a slave, and dragged 

 up and down by her sound antenna, the poor jointless scape mean- 

 while thrust out and waving piteously. The late exalted mien 

 and ferocious aspect^ were now gone, and the warrior cringed her 

 body and drooped her limbs like — it is no mere fancy word-painting 

 this — a sullen criminal in the hands of a policeman. The two 

 disappeared from my sight in the mouth of a gallery ; but half an 

 hour afterward I saw the same warrior, whom I recognized b}^ the 

 mutilated antenna, in the clutch of one of her scarlet fellow- 

 soldiers, who was mounted upon her back and holding her by the 

 neck. 



I am happy to record that two days thereafter I saw the 

 same veteran, evidently again in " good odor," perambulating the 

 surface of the formicary. It is probable that in the battle her 

 body had been tainted by some odor peculiar to her adversary, 

 which had made her obnoxious. It may be, indeed, that the loss 

 of the upper part of the antenna may have impaired recognition, 

 and so caused this hostile treatment. At all events I could not 

 but wonder whether any thought went through the little ci-eature's 

 brain analogous to our meditations upon the ingratitude of Repub- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



lies, and the vanit}' of military glory ! This incident, and many 

 other observations, go to establish that in the function of the 

 warrior is the true economy of this ant. The manner in which 

 her European congener Rufescens makes her raids upon the nests 

 of Formica fuse a and F. cunicularia, marching in solid column, 

 and conducting war with activity, intelligence and success, may 

 be read in the fascinating pages of Huber and Forel. There is no 

 doubt that our American species has precisely the same habit. 

 Mr. Joseph Jeanes, a well-known member of this Academy, has 

 described to me the raids of an ant observed by him upon his 

 conntrj'-place at Fox Chase, which, from his description of the 

 insect, without a specimen, I should have little hesitation in identi- 

 fying as our P. lucidua. 



The slaves, however, are not deficient in the combative faculty 

 They spring to repel a hostile attack as freely and fiercely as the 

 masters. They do this independent!}-, too, just as they conduct 

 their mining operations, and their abilit}'^ to wage successful war- 

 fare seems to be quite in keeping with their mai'tial spirit. Dr. 

 Darwin has conjectured,^ that the slave-making instinct may have 

 originated from the unintentional rearing of pupfe collected for 

 food, who proving themselves useful and congenial inmates of the 

 nest, suggested the collecting of pupjae to be reared. Thus origin- 

 ated a habit, which by natural selection was strengthened and 

 made permanent, and finally increased and modified, until an ant 

 was formed as abjectly dependent on its slaves as P. rufescens. 

 Whatever credit we may give to this ingenious hypothesis, it 

 must be said, that in the case of our F. ScJwjiJf'ussi, natural selec- 

 tion has not operated to degenerate the soldierly courage and 

 faculty, and remand the duty of defense to those associates in 

 whom the military faculty has been specialized. In other words, 

 if Lucidus has become specialized as a warrior, dropping an origi- 

 nal disposition and ability to labor, her slave has not become 

 specialized as a worker, nor dropped her combative faculty, but 

 seems to be possessed in all respects of the normal habits and 

 nature of ants of her species. At least I could trace in her no 

 effects of slavery, other than the strange association with and care 

 of her abductor. One, therefore, who accepts Dr. Darwin's sug- 

 gestion, must allow that natural selection has wrought toward 

 specialization in one section of the colony, but has been suspended 



' Origin of Species, p. 26. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



in its operations upon the other section. It is doubtful if the 

 anomalous conditions thus raised by Dr. Darwin's explanation, 

 be not more difficult to explain than the original conditions to 

 which the hypothesis was applied. 



It is important to note the wide distribution of this insect across 

 the American Continent. During the summer of 1819, while 

 encamped in the Garden of the gods, studying the Honey and 

 Occidental Ants, a nest of Lucidus was discovered just inside my 

 tent door. Its gate was a simple opening into the ground, into 

 which both Lucidus and her slaves were frequently passing. 

 There was a similar opening under a small bush about three feet 

 distant. The slave, or worker, was here precisel}' the same, 

 Formica Schaiiffussi, which is found so often in the compound 

 nests of both F. sa^iguinea and Lucidus in the Eastern States. On 

 one occasion I captured a slave carrying a winged queen from one 

 opening to another. 



A comparison of a Lucidus taken at Bellwood, at the foot of the 

 Allegheny Mountains, Pennsylvania, with the Colorado specimens, 

 shows no difference except that the Pennsylvania example is 

 slightly more robust and of a somewhat darker color. The pecu- 

 liar uniform gloss which gives the American ant its specific or 

 varietal name, as distinguished from the duller color of the 

 European species, P. rufeftcens, marks equally the Eastern and 

 Western representatives. The European ant is decidedly smaller 

 than her American congener. The Colorado F. Schaujfussi is of 

 a more uniform and darker brown- color than the Allegheny 

 Mountain specimen. 



I have no specimens of Lucidus from points intermediate of the 

 localities above named, but no doubt the species is spread over the 

 whole of our Continent.' That it carries with it its characteristic 

 habits, even its favorite domestic servant and associate, and that 

 in these respects it exhi])its the habits of its closely allied congener 

 of Europe, affords another interesting point in the geographical 

 distribution of our insect fauna. 



' P. Tufescens of Europe has not yet been found in tlie warm plains of the 

 South of that Continent. (Catalogue Emory-Forel, p. 450, Mitth. d. 

 Schweizerischen Entomol. Gesellschaft. ) It would be a valuable contri- 

 bution to our knowledge of distribution were we to know whether or not 

 P. lucidus is found in our Southern States. We might venture the ano- 

 logical prediction from the above habit of its European congener, that it is 

 not found in the Gulf States. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



ON THE TEMPORAL AND MASSETER MUSCLES OF MAMMALS. 

 BY HARRISON ALLEN, M. D. 



Systematic writers have described the temporal and masseter 

 muscles in mammals as being distinct from one another. I hope 

 to show that they are, in the great majority of forms, parts of the 

 same muscle. 



I have found in my dissections that the temporal muscle,^ as a 

 rule, has a deep and a superficial set of fibres. The deep set arises 

 from the floor of the temporal fossa, and makes up the greater 

 part of the muscle. Most of the fibres unite to form a tendon, 

 which is inserted upon the apex of the coronoid process of the 

 lower jaw. Many of the fibres which do not so unite are inserted 

 upon the median surface of the coronoid process ; others again are 

 continuous with the superficial fibres. The superficial set of fibres 

 arise from the temporal aponeurosis. It is continuous in the main 

 with the deep fibres of the masseter, and the fibres are inserted 

 upon the lateral surface of the coronoid process. A partially 

 distinct slip arising from the median aspect of the malar bone, 

 and the ridge on the squama over the external auditory meatus, 

 is an accession to the superficial fibres, but possesses a tendency 

 to unite with the fibres of the deep set in the anterior portion 

 of the fossa. These fibres maj^ receive the name of the supra- 

 zygomatic portion of the masseter. They are inserted at the base 

 of the coronoid process, forming a thin glistening tendon within 

 and a little posterior to the anterior border of the body of the 

 masseter. The supra-zygomatic slip is merged with the large 

 superficial mass in the dog. 



I believe that I have detected as part of the general plan of the 

 masseter muscle, when well developed, that it is composed first 

 of a tendino-muscular layer, rising tendinouslj' from the anterior 

 part of the zygoma or the maxilla near the infra-orbital foramen, 

 and is inserted muscularly into the angle ; second, of a nearly 

 vertical laj'er, tendinous below near the angle, muscular near the 

 zygoma ; third, of a nearh' vertical layer, having a disposition to 

 become tendinous, both near the angle and at the malar bone ; 

 fourth, of a smaller laj-er occupying the fossa on the lateral 

 surface of the ramus, and which exhibits a glistening laj'er of 



1 For convenience the temporal and masseter will be held as distinct in 

 the descriptions. 

 26 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



tendon at tlie origin from tlie malar bone. The fibres beneath this 

 are continuous, in most mammals, with the superficial layer of 

 fibres of the temporal muscle, including the supra-zygomatic slip, 

 which, in some animals, is distinct in great part from the fibres 

 arising from the temporal aponeurosis. The masseter presents a gene- 

 ral resemblance to the internal pterygoid muscle, which, wherever 

 exampled, has shown these imperfect attempts at planal cleavage. 



This outline being borne in mind, it may be well to turn to the 

 descriptions emplo3'ed by writers on comparative anatomy. 



The descriptions of the muscles in Meckel (Vergleich. Anat., 

 iv, 495) are ver}- general. The temporal is said to be covered by 

 a conspicuous aponeurosis ; the muscle to be more or less fan- 

 shaped, and gradually narrowed from above downward. The mas- 

 seter is said to be divided ordinarily into an outer, longer, stouter 

 and straight layer and an inner, shorter, weaker layer, in which 

 the fibres are more or less obliquelj^ placed from above downward 

 and before backward. 



Cuvier (Legons d'Anat. Comp., 2d Ed., iv, Ime Part, 64 infra) 

 describes the temporal in the apes, bats, insectivora, rodents, two- 

 toed ant-eater, hog, ruminants and the cony. None of these includes 

 the arrangement of fibres above given. It is true that in the ant- 

 eater the masseter and temporal muscles are united, but no detail 

 of the character of the union is presented. Mivart (Elements 

 of Anatomy, 310) repeats this statement. It is evident that the 

 union of the muscles is here thought to be exceptional. Cuvier 

 and Laurillard further describe the masseter in the bats, rodents, 

 artiodactyles, ant-eater and the cony as composed of two portions, 

 a zygomatic and a maxillary. The former is present in all ; the 

 latter is seen in the rodents, artiodactyles, the ant-eater and the cony. 



Mivart (1. c, p. 309) describes the masseter in Lagostomus and 

 Dasyprocta as follows, as of " great development :" "" The masseter 

 is divided into three portions, and traverses the singularly en- 

 larged infra-orbital foramen spoken of in describing the skeleton." 

 According to the interpretation used in this paper, the masseter in 

 rodents has even fewer subdivisions than in some other mammals. 

 Of these, at least one only passes in such direction as to permit 

 the expression that it " traverses the infra-orbital foramen;" and 

 this part is not separable from all the fibres lying on a plane lower 

 than that of the zygoma. 



The descriptions of Cuvier and Laurillard of animals I have not 

 dissected, may be liere epitomized : 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



111 the horse a baaall superficial slip of the temporal exists, 

 which does not conceal the main tendon. 



In the lion (PL 143 and 144, fig. 2) the parts marked vertico- 

 soufien and jugo-soutien answer in position to the superficial and 

 snpra-zygomatic fasiculi. The slips are identified, however, with 

 the muscles of the external ear. 



In the description of the myology of Erinaceus ecaudatiis the 

 authors use the following language : " Between the crotophj'toe 

 (temporal) and the masseter muscles in the position of the absent 

 malar bone a red muscle-fasicle is seen, Avhich we have been un- 

 able to identify. It is lost posteriorly upon the <-emporal aponeu- 

 rosis, and passes under the masseter to be i .serted upon the 

 anterior border of the ascending ramus of the mandible." 



I do not hesitate to classify this slip with the supra-zygomatic 

 slip of the masseter (see fig. 2, PI. TT of C & L.). Nothing to 

 invalidate such identification can be presented excepting the fact 

 that the slip has an alleged origin from the temporal aponeurosis. 

 It is in every way likely that either the glistening main tendon or 

 the aponeurotic texture of the superficial portion of the temporal 

 is here described. 



In the above descriptions no mention is made of the union of 

 temporal and masseter except in 'the ant-eater, and in none is the 

 method of description the same as employed in this paper. 



In making the dissections it was found convenient, after prepar- 

 ing the superficies, to dissect the masseter as far as the retention of 

 the zygomatic arch in position would permit. Then this arch was 

 sawn through at either end, and turned down. This exhibited the 

 continuity of the fibres attached to it, and the temporal. The 

 latter muscle was then studied carefully. After this the head was 

 sawed through from right to left vertically (frontal cut) in order to 

 expose the arrangement of fibres on the median aspect of mandible 

 in rodents, or, in lieu of this, an antero-posterior section was made. 



Attention will now be invited to the detailed arrangement of 

 the parts in ditferent mammalian types. 



In Macacus nemestrinus we find the fibres of aponeurotic origin 

 (superficial fibres) arising as in man. In addition, a slip of fibres, 

 arising from the inner surface of the malar bone and the occipital 

 crest, passes forward and obliquely downward, to be continuous 

 with the deep masseteric fibres. This slip is the supra-zj-gomatic, 

 and is believed to be an upward prolongation of the deep 




388 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



Fig. 1. 



masseteric fibres. It joins the superficial fibres on a line with the 

 coronoicl process. The decn fibres furnish a brilliant tendon, 

 which extends forwards quite to the orbito-tcmporal septum; 

 thus differing strikingly from the arrangement in man. The deep 

 fibres are further seen to be imperfectly^ difterentiated from the 

 internal pterj^goid muscle. 



The masseter muscle is composed of the following: — 1st. A 

 layer arising aponeurotically from the anterior third of the zygo- 

 matic arch, and pissing obliquely downward and backward to the 

 angle. 2d.- A k , er resembling the foregoing ; it arises from the 

 zygomatic arch at its middle. The fibres are nearly vertical and 

 end tendinously at the angle. 3d. A layer arising tendino- 

 muscularly from the posterior third of the zygomatic arch. Its 

 fibres are inserted upon the upper half of the ascending ramus of 



the lower jaw. These layers merge 

 anteriorly ; indeed, are indistin- 

 guishable at the anterior border. 



In the dog the superficial fibres 

 are much better developed than in 

 either the macaque or man, and 

 cover in the deeper fibres, while thej' 

 do not form at an}' part a supra- 

 zygomatic slip ; the general ar- 

 rangement of both temporal and 

 masseter muscles as in other mam- 

 mals. The masseter exhibits six 

 cleavages, of which the last or 

 deepest occupies the fossa on the 

 outer surface of the ramus, and is 

 directly continuous with the super- 

 ficial fibres of the temporal (fig. 1). 

 In the coati, Nasua narica^ the 

 superficial fibres, as in the dog, 

 completely conceal the deep fibres. 

 The supra-zygomatic slip is beauti- 

 fully distinct. Branchesof a con- 

 spicuoas venule which can be seen 

 lying upon the superficial portion 

 disappear abruptl}' as they appi'oach the upper border of the 

 supra-zygomatic slip. Subsequently dissection detects the trunk 



Transverse section through masseter and 

 temporal muscles (one inch behind the 

 eye), Canis familiar is. 



X, Superficial temporal fibres. 



XX, Deep temporal fibres. 



XXX, Superficial masseteric fibre, sepa- 

 rated from A' by a tendinous sheet. 



XXXX, Internal pherygoid muscle, cut 

 transversely. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



of this vein lying between the masseter and temporal masses, 

 behind the zvo-oma. The central tendon is thicker at the root of 

 the zygoma and the bone over the external auditory meatus than 

 any other localitj'' in the temporal fossa. 



The masseter has fine lajers, closely resembling those in the 

 dog. The deepest layer, namely', that one whose fibres occupy 

 the raraal fossa, has a much thicker aponeurosis than the other 

 la^-ers, the anterior portion of the first alone excepted. 



In the opossum, Bidelphys virginianus, the superficial fibi'es of 

 tlie temporal are everywhere thick. The aponeurosis is well de- 

 veloped. The supra-zygomatic slip is not distinct. The deep 

 portion of the muscle exhibits a white glistening tendon, which 

 does not, however, extend as far as the orbito-temporal septum. 

 The anterior portion of the muscle is made up as is usual by the 

 union of the deep and superficial portion. In addition to its 

 forming the slip passing down to the front of the base of the 

 coronoid, it sends a powerful bundle to the median side of the 

 coronoid, a thin movable laj'er of muscular tissue, which passes 

 in front of the coronoid, between the medio-coronoid and pre- 

 coronoid portions. 



The masseter is highly tendinous superficially. The tendency 

 to cleavage is not pronounced, and the continuity of the deep 

 fibres with the superficial fibres of the temporal is very noticeable. 

 In the squirrel, Sciurus hudsonicus, the superficial portion of 

 the temporal is less distinct than in man, and the supra-zygomatic 

 slip, while demonstrable, is not large. The superficial tendinous 

 layer of the masseter arises from a sijur on the maxilla below tUe 

 infra-orbital foramen. It passes, as is usual, downward and back- 

 ward toward the angle. This layer does not, as in most mammals, 

 form the entire superficies. A second layer arises from entire 

 inferior border of the zygoma, which appears to be lost upon the 

 foregoing about midway between the zygoma and the angle. Upon 

 turning this last layer downward, the third and last layer is seen, 

 which is continuous in the ordinary manner with the temporal 

 fibres. The ai-rangement of fibres on the median surface of the 

 mandible was not examined. 



In the North American porcupine, Erethizon dorsatus, the 

 masseter consists of a superficial set of fibres arising tendinously 

 from the malar bone, and passing downward and backward to the 

 angle of the mandible. It arises from the anterior three-fourths 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



of the lower border of the Bialar bone, the entire lower border of 

 the enormous infra-orbital foramen. Its insertion is not only 

 npon the angle but the median surface of the ramus as well. The 

 last-named insertion occurs as follows : The anterior edge of the 

 muscle becomes stout and broad as it approaches the rounded 

 border of the bone in front of the angle. It winds round this 

 border, receiving as it does so a large accession from the angle, 

 and a portion of the adjacent median surface from the lower jaw. 

 This portion of the masseter lies below the jaw on the soft parts 

 of the neck. In addition to the above, a long, stout, fusiform 

 belly is inserted b}' fleshy fibres at a point half way up the ramus 

 in front, and above the upper border of the insertion of the in- 

 ternal pterygoid muscle. 



Beneath the superficial fibres just described, the masseter in 

 Erethizon exhibits the usual tendinous fibres arising from the 

 angle and passing upward and forward. The third set is of great 

 importance in this animal. It agrees with the general plan of 

 arrangement in other mammals examined, but is remarkable for 

 its extent. It arises from the lower and median border of the 

 zygoma by tendinous fibres, from the side of the maxilla, at the 

 nasal region and supra-orbital surface of the same bone- by fleshy 

 slips, also fleshy from the upper concave border of the zygoma, 

 where fibres form the supra-zygomatic slip ; tendinous and fleshy 

 from the anterior and lower half of the inner wall of the orbit. 

 The insertion of this set of fibres is upon the ramus, between the 

 angle and the sigmoid notch. The anterior part of the insertion 

 is rounded and tendinous. It lies beneath the corresponding 

 border of the surperficial portion, and receives the fibres passing- 

 through the infra-orbital foramen. The remaining portions unite 

 to be inserted as already indicated. 



The temporal muscle possesses a superficial portion, which 

 everywhere covers in the main muscle. Its aponeurosis arises 

 from the vertex, the upper border of the posterior half of the 

 orbit and the posterior and upper half of the inner wall of the 

 same depression. It thus covers in the post-orbital process of 

 the frontal bone. It is inserted entirely upon the main tendon, 

 and receives no fasiculus from the masseter. The deep or main 

 portion extends its aponeurosis forward, to be inserted stoutl}- 

 upon the post orbital process of the frontal bone. A thin apo- 

 neurosis passes downward, thence to the mandible behind the 

 coronoid. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



It will be seen that the plan of the muscles is the same as in 

 other mammals, but is remarkable for the muscles' subdivisions 

 remaining distinct from one another. In rodents having the large 

 infra-orbital foramen, the masseter muscle is described as having 

 a separate portion passing there through. Mivart, in his Elements 

 of Anatomy, page 309, says, in this connection: "In certain ro- 

 dents, e. g., Lagostomus and the Agouti, the masseter divides into 

 three portions, and traverses (that is, one of these portions tra- 

 verses) the singularlj" enlarged infra-orbital foramen." This is a 

 correct expression of the view usually taught. According to the 

 plan of description followed in this paper the masseter of Ere- 

 thizon in nowise differs from the muscles of the same name in 

 other mammals, except in the extent of development of the la3'er 

 to which the pre-foraminal fibres belong. I have had no oppor- 

 tunity of examining Lagostomus, but it is probable that the 

 masseters are much alike in all. The porcupine is further of 

 interest in the extent of encroachment of the muscular fibres 

 upon the orbital space. Both masseter and temporal appropriate 

 large surfaces. It is noteworth}^ in addition to find that the 

 l)ost-orbital process is here purely muscular in significance. It is, 

 indeed, imbedded in muscle. Notwithstanding its size, the process 

 has no septal significance in this rodent. 



In Goelogenys the temporal is thin in the temporal fossa but 

 thick and massive on posterior wall of the orbital space. The 

 superficial layer and supra-zygomatic slip are distinct. Raising 

 these two portions of the temporal from the temporal fossa no 

 muscular fibres are seen beneath. A distinct tendon becomes 

 visible, however, underlying the junction of the superficial and 

 supra-zygomatic portions In the orbital space the superficial 

 portion is exceedingly robust and extends medianly the entire 

 depth of the posterior wall. The temporal is inserted into the 

 lower jaw as follows : The superficial portion arising from the 

 temporal fossa, and the zygomatic portion are inserted through 

 the main tendon upon the apex of the coronoid process ; the orbital 

 portion upon the median side of the same tendon and the median 

 surface of the coronoid its entire length. 



Comparing the plan of this muscle to the others described it 

 may be said that the de6p part of the muscle is absent, unless the 

 greater bulk of the orbital portion is assigned to the deep part. 

 It has been generally found that the deep and superficial portions 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



are continuous anteriorly. It is probable that while the deep part 

 is absent from the temporal fossa proper, it remains in position in 

 the orbital space at a point answering to the post-septal depression 

 in animals having a partition between the orbit and the temporal 

 fossa. But while the deep part is absent from the proper temporal 

 fossa, a stout glistening tendon is here in the usual position of the 

 central tendon, and, as in Erethizon^ is concealed from without- 

 It is interesting to note that the supra-zygomatic slip is temporal? 

 it being doubtful whether any of its fibres are continuous with the 

 masseter. 



The masseter bears a general arrangement to the muscle in 

 Erethizon. The anterior edge is less muscular than in the latter 

 genus. The mandibulo-zygomatic portion, whose origin from the 

 mandibular angle occupies the lower one-third of the surface, con- 

 stitutes the massive fleshy belly. The fibres are for the most part 

 nearly horizontal. It is covered for the upper half of its surface by 

 the enormous malar bone. The slip from the median surface of the 

 mandible is arranged as in Erethizon. It lies in part in front, and 

 in part beneath the internal pterygoid. Its junction with the main 

 body of the masseter conceals the tendinous anterior edge thereof 

 and is continuous with those fibres arising from the angle and the 

 basal third of median surface. The deep mandibulo-maxillary 

 portion is as in Erethizon in all essential features. It is continu- 

 ous with the superficial parts. A thin layer of orbital fibres 

 OA^erlies the temporal muscle in the orbit. Another layer is 

 apparently continuous with the buccinator. 



In Dasyprocta the general plan of arrangement seen in Coelo- 

 genys is followed. The minute points of distinction therefrom not 

 being noteworthy save the continuance of the main tendon within 

 the orbital space, where it overlies the deep anterior vertical 

 fibres. 



In Cuvier and Laurillard (PI. 245) the slips of the temporal 

 are represented as parts of a bi-peniform muscle. I find the supra- 

 zygomatic fibres more horizontal in position, darker in color and 

 more convex than the remainder of the muscle. 



In the bats the superficial portion of the temporal may be small 

 or well developed. In the first variety a good example is seen in 

 Fhyllostoma hastatum and other American leaf-nosed bats in which 

 forms the superficial portion is confined to the anterior fourth 

 of the temporal fossa. The supra-zygomatic slip is also very 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



conspicuous. In Artibeus the superficial fibres occupy the anterior 



half of the fossa. In Desmodus the fibres are confined to the 



pj^ 2 anterior portion of the fossa ; 



they are weak and unimportant. 

 ^ The supra-zygomatic slip over- 



lies the tendon of the main 

 ''^^ muscle above the zygoma. In 

 ) Lonchoglossa the muscle is 

 ^ poorh'^ developed throughout. 

 The superficial fibres are re- 

 ^, , , , , , ■ -c- duced to mere rudiments. The 



The temporal and masseter muscles in a Fox 



Bat {Epomophorus). supra-zygomatic slip is present. 



.Yjf, Supei-flciai fibres of same. The deep portion does not 



XXX, Supra-zygomatic slip of masseter ■i.po/-.|i the vertex, 

 muscle. 1 . -r> • 1 



xxxx, Masseter muscle. The muscles in Ptcropme bats 



resemble those in the American 

 leaf-nosed forms. The superficial fibres are confined to the anterior 

 third or half of the temporal fossa as seen in Pteropus medms, 

 Epomophorus and Cyonycteris amplexicaudata. The supra- 

 zygomatic slip is relatively smaller than in the Phjdlostomidae. 



In 3Iegaderma frons and Phyllorhina bidens the paints bear a 

 general resemblance to the above group. The supra-zygomatic 

 slip is absent in the latter species. 



In 3I0I0SSUS the superficial fibres are enormousl}' developed, they 

 entirely cover the deep, and arise from a continuous osseous sur- 

 face at the vertex which, being broad anteriorly , narrows gradually 

 toward the occiput. The fibres arising from the vertex-crest, when 

 such is present, are those belonging to the superficial set. The 

 supra-zygomatic slip is present. A similar arrangement is seen 

 in Noctilio^ in which form the main mass of fibres possess an un- 

 usually deep set central tendon, and the superficial layer extends 

 backward along the line of the vertex to the occiput. Lasionyc- 

 teris, Atalapha, Vesperus and Vesperugo have an arrangement of 

 the temporal fibres similar to the above but vary in the degree of 

 development of the anterior slip. 



To sum up the knowledge possessed of the temporal muscle in 

 the Chiroptera it may be said that the deep portion is most ex- 

 posed in Pteropus and its congeners, and the family Phjdlos- 

 tomididae, owing to the small development of the anterior fibres. 

 In Yespertilionidse and Molossi the deep portion of the temporal 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



is more concealed owing to the greater development of the anterior 

 fibres. Those in Noctilio appear to be directly continuous with 

 fibres arising from the occipital crest and inserted on the outer 

 surface of the main tendon. With respect to the masseter it may 

 be said to be simpler than the typical description given at the 

 beginning of this paper. It possesses but slight tendencj'^ to 

 planal cleavage. 



In the bovine type of the ruminants as seen in the head of a 

 calf the first or superficial layer of the temporal is continuous 

 with the masseter as shown In the above forms, the deep layer is 

 much less conspicuously developed than in them. The temporal 

 fossa being shallow — and not high — the central tendon is pro- 

 duced backward and is relatively small and insignificant. It is 

 not traceable over a short distance beyond the top of the coro- 

 noid. 



The masseter muscle possesses six layers. The first is broad 

 and attached to the superior maxilla by an oblique line extending 

 the entire distance from the inferior border of the orbit to the 

 gum line over the first molar. The second arises tendJnously from 

 the angle of the lower jaw and extends obliquely upward and for- 

 ward, halfway up the ascending ramus. The third layer is tendi- 

 nous at the anterior superficies of the malar bone, the fibres 

 arising thence including the anterior half of the surface of the 

 zygoma. The fourth la3'er arises from the inferior border of the 

 zygoma at its anterior two-thirds, and is inserted muscularly upon 

 the ramus about midway between the zygoma and the lower border 

 of the mandible. It is this layer which is continuous with the 

 temporal as in other quadrupeds. 



The masseter exhibits a fifth slip which appears to be a differ- 

 ential from the second or third layers, it overlies the temporo- 

 maxillaiy articulation in the form of a well-defined bundle which 

 arises tendinously from the root of the z3'goma. It is inserted 

 on the ramus near the posterior border at about its middle. A 

 sixth layer exists in the form of a narrow, bright tendon and asso- 

 ciated fibres arising from the I'oot of zygoma beneath the fore- 

 going. 



Nothing similar to the fifth and sixth layers were seen in the 

 other animals examined. The sixth layer of the dog being rather a 

 sub-division over the ramus in front of and remote from the joint. 

 It is every way likely, however, that the number of the layers in 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



masseter will be found to be variable. The parts in the masseter 

 of the Virginian deer ( Gariacus virginianus) presented essentially 

 the same features as in the calf. The superficial layer of the tem- 

 poral resembles that of the calf, but the main tendon is small and 

 is without muscular fibres, as it lies behind the orbito-temporal 

 septum. The suiDerficial portion is small. It lies behind the 

 coronoid, in the posterior superior portion of the temporal fossa. 



It must be said that the human anatomist seems warranted in 

 treating the masseter and temporal muscles distinct. Quain, in- 

 deed, affirms that some of the posterior temporal fibres arising 

 from the temporal fascia blend with the deep fibres of the masse- 

 ter, but the union of the muscles in man is a rare anomalj^ 

 Macalister (Muscular Anomalies in Human Anatomy. Trans, 

 of the Roj^al Irish Academy, xxv, 1872, 18.) has met with it 

 but once. I have seen it once onl3\^ No mention is anywhere 

 made of the presence of the supra-zygomatic slip. It is quite- 

 likel}' that it maj' be occasionally seen in the cellulo-adipose tissue 

 above the zygoma. Of the presence of any peculiarities in the 

 anthropoid apes in these muscles I am uninformed. 



The arrangement of the superficial layerof the temporal muscle 

 in man is ver}^ similar to that seen in the quadruped. This layer 

 arises from the temporal aponeurosis, and while thin posteriorly 

 is thick anteriorly, behind the orbital septum. If this layer of 

 fibres be divided posteriorly and the anterior portion turned for- 

 ward, a thick radiated tendon is displayed beneath. This is the 

 tendon of the deep set of fibres which here as in quadrupeds 

 constitute the mass of the muscle. The fibres of the superficial 

 and deep sets are continuous behind the orbital septum. This 

 method of displaying the temporal muscle has been for many 

 years employed b}' Prof. Joseph Leidy in his demonstrations at 

 the University of Pennsylvania. 



From the above examination I have come to the following con- 

 clusions : — 



(1) While it is convenient to separate these muscles it must be 

 remembered that in many mammalia the tendency is for the mas- 

 seter and temporal muscles to unite-^the deep part of the former 

 being continuous with the superficial part of the latter. 



1 In a dissection of the muscles in a mulatto child at term, I found the 

 deeper plane of masseteric fibres arising from the external surface of the 

 temporal tendon. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



(2) Man, and some of the Rodents — the latter illustrated in 

 Erethizon — are exceptions to the tendency. In these forms the 

 temporal is distinct from the masseter. In the same order, as in 

 Coelogenys and Dasyprocta, tlie deep portion of the temporal is 

 either absent or represented in a single orbitally disposed mass of 

 vertical fibres. 



(3) The muscles in question have been much neglected. They 

 should be carefully dissected in all myological studies of the 

 mammalia. 




18S0.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



The following reports were read and referred to the Publication 

 Committee : — 



REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT 



For the Year ending November 30, 1880. 



Nothing has occurred during the year to disturb the Societ}^ in 

 its usual course. It is a source of satisfaction that its financial 

 condition is better now than it was at the close of last j-ear. 

 Although its current income is not yet quite equal to the sum it 

 needs or desires, it still remains free from debt. 



The effort begun more than a j'ear ago to collect subscriptions 

 for the purpose of establishing a maintenance or working-fund, 

 has not been as successful as was expected. The aggregate of 

 subscriptions is now $2680, of which $1550 have been paid. It 

 may be hoped that at the close of 1881 the Treasurer will be able* 

 to report that the Maintenance Fund has been largely increased. 

 The eftbrt should not be abandoned in despair. 



In this connection it may be mentioned that an addition of 

 $3000 to the permanent fund of the Academy' has been made by 

 reserving for investment, under a by-law (Chapter IX) enacted 

 Ma}^, 1876, all moneys received from members for commuting 

 their semi-annual contributions, as long as they may retain their 

 membership. This commutation fee is designated life-membership, 

 and the fund accruing from it is convenieutl}^ called the Life- 

 membership Fund. The income from it is applicable to the pay- 

 ment of the ordinary expenses of the society. 



The Charlotte M. Eckfeldt Fund, formed of money received, 

 June, 1879, from the executors of the late Mrs. C. M. Eckfeldt, 

 who made the Academy one of her residuary legatees, amounts to 

 $2466.86. The income from it has been temporarily assigned to 

 the use of the Publication Committee, 



The heirs of the late Mr. Joshua T. Jeanes, who died suddenly 

 January 3d, 1880, have generously given to the Academy twenty 

 thousand dollars, the sum which he had indicated his intention to 

 bequeath to the Society in an unsigned codicil to his last will. 

 The money has been invested in approved mortgages, and b}^ 

 order of the Academy constitutes the Joshua T. Jeanes Fund, the 

 income from which has been duly made applicable, like that of 

 the Maintenance Fund, to the general purposes of the society. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The Thomas B.Wilson Fund, the Elizabeth Phyle Stott,the Isaac 

 Barton, and Publication Funds are unchanged. Owing to cir- 

 cumstances over which the Academy has no control, the income 

 of the year from the I. Y. Williamson Librar}' Fund has been 

 somewhat diminished. But it is confidently conjectured tliat in 

 a short time it will be the same that it has been in the past. 



The financial condition of the Academy will be found detailed 

 in the Report of the Treasurer, to whom the society is much 

 indebted for the time, care and labor which he bestows in the dis- 

 charge of the duties of his office. 



Five 3'oung men have been receiving the benefit of the Jessup 

 Fund ; two for two months each, one for five, one for six, and one 

 for eiglit months during the j^ear. 



A ])rief account of the origin of this fund, and the manner of 

 its application, may interest those especially who have become 

 members of the Society within the past few years. 



Mr. Augustus E. Jessup, who became a member of the Academy 

 November, 1818, and died in Wilmington, Del., December 17th, 

 1859, gave the institution and its purposes a high place in his 

 estimation. He had expressed his intention to bestow on the 

 Academ}^ if ever able, a sum of money to constitute a perpetual 

 fund for specified purposes. His children determined that this 

 intention of their father should be realized, although he left no 

 written instructions on the subject. 



In a letter dated March 6th, 1860, and addressed to Dr. Isaac 

 Lea, then President of the Academy, the^^ stated that, in accord- 

 ance with what they believed to be the intention of their father, 

 they proposed " to pay to the Academy one hundred and twenty 

 dollars per annum to be applied to its Publication Fund ; and the 

 further sum of four hundred and eighty dollars per annum, to be 

 used for the support of one or more deserving poor 3" oung man or 

 men who may desire to devote the whole of his or their time and 

 energies to the study of the natural sciences ; and that they 

 looked forward to investing in trust, at some not distant time, the 

 principals of the sums named, for the purpose of creating a per- 

 petual fund for the above-named uses." 



Substantially these are all the instructions given to the Academy 

 for its guidance in the administration of these two funds — one to 

 be applied to its publications, and the other to the support of 

 students— aggregating six hundred dollars a year. They paid 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



this Slim regularly from March, 1860, until February, 1872, when 

 they ti'ansferred to the Academy — " the principals of the sums 

 named " — ten consolidated mortgage bonds of the Philadelphia 

 and Reading Railroad Company. Thus Mr. Jessup's children 

 generously fulfilled their promise and realized their father's inten- 

 tion. They have also consented that women may enjoy the 

 benefits of the student fund. 



The action and language of the Messrs. Jessup imply, without 

 any doubt whatever, that their intention was to give to the 

 Academy six hundred dollars per annum : one hundred and 

 twenty dollars applicable only to the Publication Fund, and four 

 hundred and eighty dollars to the support of students. And to 

 secure this sum to the Academy annually forever, they gave to it 

 in trust an investment, the par value of which is ten thousand 

 dollars, an amount equal, at the rate of six per cent per annum, 

 to "the principals of the sums named for the purpose of creating 

 a perpetual fund," designed to be the impersonal successor and 

 never-dying agent of the Messrs. Jessup for the payment of six 

 hundred dollars annually to the Academy. 



As trustee, the Academy is bound in honor, if not in law, to 

 adopt such proper measures as may be necessary from time to 

 time, to preserve entire not only the principal sum, but also 

 to prevent, if possible, the income from ever becoming less than 

 six hundred dollars, the specified sum it has been authorized and 

 directed to expend annually for the purposes named. Reduction 

 of this income must be detrimental to those who may properly ask 

 assistance from it, to the extent of any diminution it maj^ suffer. 

 It is designed to benefit students of the future as well as those of 

 the current time. The interests of those of the coming centuries 

 in it are entitled to present consideration and protection, if 

 needed. 



The instructions under which the Jessup Fund for students 

 was established, describe in general terms the requisite qualifica- 

 tions of those upon whom the Academ}^ may bestow its benefits. 



An eligible candidate for aid from the Jessup Fund, is required 

 by those instructions to possess the following qualifications : 



1, Evident " desire" to devote the whole of his time and ener- 

 gies to the study of the natural sciences. 



2. He must be so poor as to be dependent on his own labor for 

 a livelihood, and therefore, unless he can be otherwise supported, 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



he cannot devote the whole of his time and energies to the study 

 of the natural sciences, to which he seeks to dedicate himself. 



3. He must be "deserving" of support in this connection. 

 This condition means much. To deserve any support from the 

 Jessup Fund, he should possess a quick natural intelligence, 

 above the average; a good and sufficient education, including, 

 perhaps, a knowledge of the German and French languages ; in- 

 dustrious and orderly ways ; integrity in every sense beyond sus- 

 picion, and lastly, a. manifest intention to dedicate his lifetime 

 and energies to the study of the natural sciences. 



4. He must be " young "—say under twenty-five years of age. 

 Under such conditions, and with faculties suitably equipped 



and disposed, the candidate ma}^ pass through an apprenticeship 

 here provided, and become a practical naturalist. 



The application of the fund is entirely at the discretion of the 

 Academy. It would not violate the letter of the trust by using 

 it to support approved students of the natural sciences without 

 •giving them instruction, or granting them the use of its library 

 or museum or its hall as their workshop. The trust does not re- 

 quire that the Academy shall be the preceptor of the beneficiaries 

 of the Jessup Fund in any degree. But inasmuch as one of 

 the functions which the society has prescribed for itself is to im- 

 part and diffuse knowledge, it seems peculiarly proper that it 

 should direct and facilitate the studies of these beneficiaries. 



The four hundred and eight3^ dollars may be given annually to 

 support one, or be divided between two or more, as may seem to 

 the Academy expedient. The time during which any one may 

 receive assistance from the fund, is limited at the discretion of 

 the Academy. 



After due consideration of the subject at the start, it was 

 determined that the approved candidate should be received at 

 first on probation, for one month, and if the trial were satisfac- 

 tory, he might be appointed a beneficiary^ for two years, and then 

 retire in favor of another, unless there should be special reasons 

 for his continuance. 



Inasmuch as the members of the society pay dues for their 

 right to use the library and museum, it is considered proper to 

 require the beneficiaries of the Jessup Fund to give, daily, a part 

 of their time and labor to the Academy, under the direction of 

 the curators, as compensation for instruction, and the use of the 




1880 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Academy's propert^^ This time is employed in work incident to 

 taking care of, mounting, and arranging specimens in the museum, 

 such as cleaning them when necessary, labeling, etc., a kind of 

 work which is pertinent to the vocation of a naturalist, and 

 throuffh which the beneficiaries become familiarized with natural 

 objects, more perfectl}^ than thej^ can be in any other way. It 

 should not be forgotten that the Academy has alwaj-s been de- 

 pendent, almost exclusivel}', upon the unpaid labor of its members 

 for the care of its museum, and this circumstance, perhaps, ex- 

 plains why beneficiaries of the Jessup Fund are expected to do 

 an}' kind of work in the Academ}- that the curators and other 

 members are in the habit of doing. They are, in fact, regarded 

 as almost apprentices, who should be ever ready to avail them- 

 selves of the opportunities afforded to learn everj'thing pertinent 

 to the career of a naturalist. 



Applications for the benefits of the Jessup Fund, are considered 

 and decided by the Council of the Academy. 



Between March, 18G0, and November, 1880, thirty-four persons 

 have received aid from the fund, for a longer or shorter period 

 than two years. Of these, five have died, well known and much 

 respected naturalists. Five of those, now living, are professors 

 and eminent men. It is believed that all of this class of gentle- 

 men have acquitted themselves satisfactorily, and that all grate- 

 full}^ appreciate the benificence of the Jessup Fund, as well as 

 the advantages derivable from it ; and it is hoped that none will 

 ever regret an}- of the work he has done, or the time he has spent 

 in the Academy. 



The annual reports of the curators and librarian show the ex- 

 tent of increase of the museum and- library ; and those from the 

 several sections of the Academy indicate that they are active and 

 prosperous. 



During the year, more than 600 pages of the Proceedings have 

 been published, and the fourth part of the eighth quarto volume 

 of the Journal of the Academy is passing through the press. 



The proceedings of the Entomological Section are printed on 

 the premises by some of its members, and issued separately. 

 This section has published more than 370 pages and 7 plates 

 during the year. 



The second volume of a " Manual of Conchology, Structural and 

 Systematic, with Illustrations of the Species," by George W. 



27 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Tiyon, Jr., published by the nuthorand issued from the Academy, 

 has been pviblished duriui' the year. It includes 289 pages of 

 text, 70 plates with 975 figures. 



Professor Leidy's admirable work on " Fresh-Wster Rhizopods 

 of North America," forming Yol. XII of the final reports of the 

 United States Geological and Geographical Survey of the Terri- 

 tories, under the direction of Dr. F. V. Hayden, is so closely 

 connected with the Academy, that its publication during the j-ear 

 may be mentioned here. Dr, Leidy, at the stated meetings of the 

 society, gave verbal accounts of very many fresh-water rhizopods 

 which are described in his work, and the Academy's librarj^ was 

 the sole source from which he was enabled to prepare the bibli- 

 ography of the subject. 



Few persons devote their whole time and energies to natural 

 history for a living. Generally, the study is an occupation for 

 leisure hours, and may be regarded as a secondary pursuit among 

 us, which yields little or nothing towards a livelihood. Satisfactory 

 study of natural history requires so much to aid its votaries, in the 

 way of collections and books, that it is extremely rare to find any one 

 person rich enough to procure all that is needed. For this reason 

 manj^ of like tastes associate, each contributing his quota, for the 

 purpose of gathering what is necessary or desirable to be used in 

 common for self-instruction. 



In one sense the Academy may be regarded as an association 

 of this kind. 



A prominent object of the Society is to afford opportunity to 

 those who desire to undertake self-culture in any or all the de- 

 partments of the natural sciences. From its beginning in 1812, 

 continuously to the present time, members have freely contributed 

 specimens to its museum, and books to its library. Besides 

 materials of this kind they have given money liberally, established 

 permanent funds for several specific purposes, and employed what- 

 ever time the}' could fairly take from their daily avocations in 

 working with their own hands to render the constantly increasing 

 means of stud}^ as easil}^ available as possible. The value of per- 

 sonal labor gratuitously given to establish and promote the growth 

 of this institution cannot be over-estimated. A result of the joint 

 efforts of the members of the societ}^ since its foundation is the 

 opportunity of self-instruction here liberally afforded to those who 

 may choose to avail themselves of it. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Although the museum is deficient in many of its departments, 

 it is remarkably sufficient in some, and as a whole is very exten- 

 sive, and in every sense very valuable. The unequal development 

 or growth of the several departments is ascribable to the depend- 

 ence of the collections for increase on donations exclusively, and 

 the want of money to purchase desiderata, and not to indifference 

 or ignorance of those to whom the immediate care of the museum 

 is confided. 



At this time the library as a whole, though not complete, is 

 perhaps the best collection of works on natural history in this 

 country, and the Library Fund, given by Mr. I. V. Williamson, 

 provides liberall}' for its increase. 



The opportunity for self-culture to be found now in the museum 

 and library, with all their deficiencies, is a result of the generosity, 

 goodwill, industry and benevolence of very many members and 

 friends of the Society. Some expert naturalists may disparage 

 this opportunity of self-culture, such as it is, and take pleasure in 

 pointing out its defects and deficiencies, but those just entering 

 the field, as well as those not yet proficient will find it fully suf- 

 ficient for their use and worthy of cordial approbation. 



Objection has been made to the regulation which restricts the 

 use of specimens and books to the premises of the Academy, sug- 

 gesting that study would be very much facilitated by loaning speci- 

 mens and books to members, especially to those who are advanced 

 students and experts. The answer is that the loan of specimens 

 and books, which may be regarded as a luxury rather than as a 

 necessity to students, would somewhat facilitate the work of one 

 borrower, but while they w-ere in his possession the studies of 

 several persons having occasion to consult the same specimens 

 and books might be much retarded or hindered. Besides, loaning 

 books and specimens increases the chance of their loss and injury. 

 After ample experience in the practice of loaning, and due con- 

 sideration of the whole question, the Academj'^ adopted the exist- 

 ing regulation of loaning specimens only on a recommendation of 

 a majority of the curators, approved by a vote of the Academj- ; 

 and by prohibiting the circulation of books, has made the library 

 a librar}' of reference exclusively. It is confidently believed that 

 the common interests of all concerned are best served b}' strict 

 adherence to this practice. It promises " the greatest good to 

 the greatest number" of those who have occasion to examine 




401 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



specimens or consult books, because, come when they may, from 

 far or near, they are reasonably sure to find in the building what- 

 ever bclono^s to the museum or library. 



The regulation in question is appi'oved by an experience of more 

 than a quarter of a century. It is supposable that it would have 

 been changed long ago had the menibers of the society believed 

 it to be injurious to their common interests. 



It may be freely granted, however, that there are persons — those 

 who are seldom spontaneously considerate of the convenience and 

 rights of others to the use of property held in common, to Avhom 

 all restrictive rules appear unwise — especially when they are an 

 obstacle to the satisfaction of some transient interest or desire. 

 The same individuals would probably discover a grievance in the 

 loaning system, should they find that those very specimens and 

 books which they desire to refer to at the moment, had just been 

 borrowed and taken out of the building, to be returned at the end 

 of a fortnight or possibly a month. Persons of such temperament, 

 unhappily for themselves as well as their associates, are prone to 

 find that " All goes wrong, and nothing as it ought," where others 

 of more happy constitution discover nothing unpleasant. 



The opportunity of self-instruction in the Academy is good as 

 it now is. It is accessible to those who may desire to make use 

 of it under the rules of the society. They must come spontane- 

 ously. The Academy is not prepared to enlist regulars, hire 

 mercenaries, or solicit volunteers in order to bring into more 

 extensive use the opportunity of self-instruction which it has 

 built up. 



When both the museum and library were easily contained in 

 one small room, the effort of the Academy to increase its means 

 and opportunities of self-instruction was approved. No one com- 

 plained of its deficiencies. All cheerfully endeavored to use profit- 

 ably what it had. The propriety of admitting to its membership 

 those who possessed no other qualifications tlian friendliness to 

 scientific pursuits and personal respectability was not questioned. 

 But since the possessions of the Academy have grown to be ex- 

 tensive and of great value in every sense, there are individuals 

 who lament that they are not greater, and seem pleased to dis- 

 parage its condition, its course and its organization. Ignoring 

 all that is recorded in the sixteen volumes of the first and second 

 series of the Journal of the Academy and in the thirty-two 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHI LAD ELPUr A. 405 



volumes of its Proceedings, tliey imagine that it sadl}' lacks the 

 afflatus of pure science and does nothing to pi'omote research. 

 Their tone implies that the capabilities of the institution, the 

 potentialities of its possessions might be made more useful to 

 truly qualified investigators by reforming the present S3-stem and 

 policy, which are too broadly in the interest of beginners and 

 amateurs in science. They seem to believe that the collections 

 should be placed under the control of expert specialists, with 

 power to loan specimens at their discretion ; that the books of 

 the librarj" should be allowed to circulate freely, and finally, that 

 the society should consist of proficients exclusivel}', or at least 

 include a privileged class of experts. 



Whether the Academy should now permit its extensive museum 

 and librar}', which have cost so much time, labor and mone}' to 

 form, to be diverted from their present ways of usefulness to 

 students generally, and appropriated by skilled investigators, is a 

 question too important to be hastil}"^ decided.^ 



The b3'-law of May, 1876, which provides for the appointment 

 of professors, remains inoperative. No candidate has presented 

 himself during the year. No report ha's been . i-eceived from the 

 Professor of Histolog}^ and Microscopic Technolog}', who was 

 appointed April 16, 1877. 



In conclusion, it may be said that the condition of the Academy 

 has never been better since its foundation than it is at the present 

 time. It is independent of debt, and its income has been so far 

 increased that it is hoped, under a careful administration of its 

 financial afiairs, it will soon be sufficient to meet the usual demands. 



The whole is submitted, 



W. S. W. RUSCHENBERGER. 



^ A society composed exclusively of proficients may be desirable and 

 even essential to the progress of original investigation in Philadelphia. 

 Those who are of this opinion might possibly form such a society at once, 

 and in the course of time acquire all it may need ; and, without coveting 

 or attempting to appropriate its possessions, permit the Academy to exist 

 for the benefit of those proficients who approve of its organization as well 

 as of beginners and amateurs. Some of these might become qualified to 

 be admitted to membership of any society composed exclusively of gener- 

 ally recognized masters in science. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



REPORT OF THE RECORDIXG SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 year ending November 30th, 1880, twenty-six members and twenty 

 correspondents have been elected. 



Resignations of membership have been received from D. E. 

 Dallam and J. D. Thomas. 



Records of the death of twenty members and four correspond- 

 ents have been published in the Proceedings under the dates of 

 announcement. 



Twenty-five papers have been accepted for publication as follows : 

 H. C. Lewis, 7 ; J. S. Kingsley, 3 ; Jos. Leid}', 3 ; H. C. Chapman, 

 2 ; Harrison Allen, 1 ; R. Bergh, 1 ; Andrew Garrett, 1 ; A. W. 

 Yogdes, 1 ; W. N. Lockington, 1 ; W. D. Havtman, 1 ; Wm. Bar- 

 beck, 1 ; Angelo Heilprin, 1 ; T. D. Rand, 1, and F. A. (Jenth, 

 Jr., 1. 



Twenty-two of these papers have been published in the Pro- 

 ceedings and three in the Journal. In addition , nine papers published 

 in the Proceedings, together with reports of a nnmber of important 

 verbal communications, formed the Proceedings of the Mineralo- 

 gical and Geological Section of the Academy- for the years 18 YT 

 to 1879. 



Two hundred and eighty-eight pages of the Proceedings for 

 1819 and three hundred and fiftj'-two pages of the volume for 1880 

 have been printed during the year. The concluding number of 

 Yolume YIII of the Journal will be issued early in January. 



The list of those making verbal communications at the meet- 

 ings includes the names of Messrs. Leidy, Meehan, Allen, A. J. 

 Parker, Wilcox, Koenig, Cope, Kellv, Ryder, Evarts, Frazer, 

 Dercum, Horn, McCook, Barbeck, Kingsley, Chapman, Potts, 

 Canby, Foote, Coates, Tasker, Martindale, Pike, Ford, Halde- 

 man, Redfield, Porter and Hough. 



At the meeting held January 13th, 1880, Messrs. Aubrey H. 

 Smith and Geo. Yaux were elected to fill vacancies in the Council 

 caused by the absence from the meetings thereof for six consecu- 

 tive months of Dr. C. Newlin Peirce and Prof. Edw. D. Cope, 

 and on November 16, 1880, Mr. Ezra T. Cresson was elected to fill 

 a vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Geo. Yaux. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



In accordance with the By-Laws of the Academ}-, the Corre- 

 sponding Secretar}' presents the following Report of the business 

 of his office during the year ending November 30th, 18S0. 



Thei-e have been elected twent}' Correspondents, as follows : 



Angelo Heilprin,* New York City; Dr. C. A. White * Wash- 

 ington, D. C. ; Albert de Selle,* Paris, France ; Victor Raulin,* 

 Bordeaux, France ; R. Hoarnes,* Yienna, Austria ; Georges Rol- 

 laud, Paris, France; A. Inostranzeft',* St. Petersburg, Russia; 

 Dr. Robert Schomburgh* Adelaide, Australia ; Dr. Herman T. 

 Geyler, Frankfort a. M., Germany ; Robert Casparis, Konigsberg, 

 Germany ; Agostino Todaro, Palermo, Italy ; J. E. Bommer, 

 Brussels, Belgium ; Prof. Teodoro Caruel,* Pisa, Italy ; Lionel 

 S. Beale,"*" London, England ; Prof. Richard Hertwig,* Jena, 

 Austria ; Prof. Oscar Hertvvig,* Jena, Austria ; Dr. Carl Ochse- 

 nius,* Marburg, Prussia ; Dr. M. H. De Bey, Aix-la-Chapelle, 

 Prussia ; Prof. Adolf E. Nordenskjold,* Stockholm, Sweden ; 

 Prof. Torquato Taramelli,* Pavia, Italy ; all of whom have been 

 promptly notified, and acceptances have been received from those 

 whose names are marked with an asterisk, *. 



The donations to the Museum have been numerous and valuable, 

 as will be learnerl from the Curators' report, and prompt acknowl- 

 edgments have been sent to the various donors, numbering in all 

 228. 



Letters transmitting publications have been received from Cor- 

 responding Societies or Institutions, at home and abroad, to the 

 number of fifty-one ; from individuals, four. 



Letters or other acknowledgments of the reception of the pub- 

 lications of the Academy have been received to the number of 

 fifty-two. 



In addition to the above, thirteen letters of a miscellaneous 

 nature have been received, and those requiring an answer have 

 been in all cases replied to. 



Respectfulh^ submitted, 



George H. Horn, 



Corresponding Secretary. 




408 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



During the past year, from December 1st, 1879, to November 

 30th, 1880, the library of the Academy has been increased by 

 2744 additions, mainly exchanges received for the publications of 

 the Academy. The accessions have included 310 volumes, 2.345 

 pamphlets and parts of periodicals and 89 maps, photographs, 

 portraits, etc. 



They were derived from the following sources : — 



and 



Societies 1018. 



I. V. Williamson Fund 522. 



Editors 487. 



Authors 218 



Dr. I. Minis Hayes 118. 



Wm. S. Beebe 61. 



Wilson Fund 50. 



Department of Mines, Nova Scotia, 

 23. 



Geological Survey of Sweden 23. 



Geological Survey of Belgium 19. 



Department of the Interior 17. 



Isaac Lea 14. 



.Jos. Leidy 14. 



Geological Survey of Pennsylvania 

 13. 



University of Chili 12. 



Dr. F. V. Hayden 11. 



Wm. S. Vaux 10. 



Geological Survey of Canada 10. 



I)e])artment of Agriculture 10. 



Smithsonian Institution 8. 



Engineer Department, U. S. Army 

 7. 



Geological Survey of India 6. 



,1. H. Redfield 6 



Geological Survey of Wisconsin 5. 



(Jolonial Secretary N. S. Wales 5. 



Geological Survey of Minnesota 5. 



Treasury Department 5. 



Geol. Surv. N. Zealand 4. 



Yale College 4. 



Minist. of Pub. Instruction, Bel- 

 gium 4. 

 British Museum 3. 



The books and pamphlets thus acquired were distributed to the 

 several departments of the librar}^ as follows : — 



War Department 3. 



U. S. Coast Survey 2. 



Kansas State Board of Agriculture 



2. 

 Geol. Surv. N. J. 2. 

 Jos. M. Gazzam 2. 

 R. Schomburgli 2. 

 John Brazier 2. 

 Mrs. Charles Pickering. 

 S. S. Ilaldeman. 

 Rathmell Wilson. 

 U. S. Commission of Fish 



Fisheries 1. 

 Commissioners of Fisheries, Cali- 

 fornia. 

 Mines Commissioners of Maryland. 



Geol. Surv. Kentucky. 



Geol. Surv. Indiana. 



Geological Survey of Japan. 



University of Minnesota. 



Directors of City Trusts. 



Meteorological Office, Canada. 



South African Museum. 



Government of Victoria. 



Commissioners of Public Charities, 

 Penna. 



East Indian Government. 



Bureau of Education. 



Public Library, Milwaukee. 



Astor Library. 



Library Co. Phila. 



Mercantile Library Associations of 

 San Francisco, St. Louis, New 

 York and Cincinnati, each 1 . 



Journals 1969. 



Geology 132. 



General Natural History 169. 



Anthropology 88. 



Conchology 68. 



Botany 61. 



Anatomy and Physiology 41. 



Entomology 36. 




1880,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



Ornithology 34. Mammalogy 9, 



Bibliography 26. Ichthyology 4. 



Physical ir^cieiice 21. Voyages and Travels 4. 



]\Iineralogy 16. Herpetology 3. 



Helminthology 16. Microscopy 1. 



Agriculture 13. Miscellaneous (Historj^, Statistics, 



Chemistry 11. Politics, etc.) 12. 



Encyclopedias 10. 



From the above statistics and the accompanying list of addi- 

 tions it will be seen that, apart from exchanges received from 

 societies and editors, the gro-wth of the library has been raainlj- 

 dependent upon the I. Y. Williamson Fmid. 



It gives the Librarian pleasure to be able to report the comple- 

 tion of the card catalogue of all the special departments of the 

 library coming within the province of the Acadeni}'. It is to be 

 hoped that some of the remaining sections, at present arranged 

 on the gallery, may soon be disposed of hy sale or exchange, as 

 the}- embrace books of a character rarely- or never consulted in 

 the Academy ; although many of them would be of importance 

 and Talue elsewhere. The revision of the catalogue of journals 

 and periodicals is progressing slowly, as time is taken after the 

 completion of each geographical section to apply for all deficiencies 

 noted. The answers to such applications thus far made have beeir 

 so satisfiictor}- as to warrant the hope that important additions 

 will be received from this source during the coming year. 



The collection of portraits of the Presidents and benefactors of 

 the Academy has been increased b}^ the addition of a fine oil 

 painting of Isaac Lea, LL. D., by Ulile, one of Dr. Isaac Hays, 

 b}- Waugh and a life-sized crayon portrait of Mr. Isaiah V. Wil- 

 liamson. For these gifts, interesting not onh' as works of art, 

 but also as memoi'ials of men to whom the society is indebted for 

 many and permanent benefits, the thanks of the Academy 

 are due to Dl". Lea, Mrs. Dr. Isaac Hays and Mr. Williamson. 

 The Acadeni}^ now possesses the portraits of eight out of its ten 

 presidents, those of Dr. Thos. B, Wilson and Dr. Robert Bridges 

 being j-et lacking. It is to be hoped that these ma}' be supplied, 

 and that the series, which will certainl}' be of great interest here- 

 after, may be kept complete. 



Fine framed photographs of Dr. Jos. Leid}^ and the late Prof. 

 Henr}^ have been received from Mr. F, Gutekunst,and Dr. C. W. 

 De Lannoy has presented a death mask of Di*. James Aitken 

 Meigs. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



For the amount expended from the various funds for books you 

 are respectfully' referred to the report of the Treasurer. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators respectfully report that the Museum of the 

 Academj' continues in its usual good state of preservation. The 

 following report of the Curator in charge gives brief notice of 

 what has been done, and the additions which have been made 

 during the year. 



Sir : — I would respectfully report, that during the year all the 

 collections of the Mviseum have been carefully inspected and cared 

 for, and that they are in good condition. The vertebrate fossils 

 are in process of arrangement. 



Dr. J. Allen Kite has been engaged in the arrangement of the 

 collection of Bird-skeletons, and Mr. Angelo Heilprin in the ar- 

 rangement of the Invertebrate fossils. 



The specimens received during the year have been labeled and 

 placed in their proper positions. 



The contributions in the various departments during the year, 

 excepting those reported on by some of the special sections, are 

 as follows : — 



Mamwah. — Zoological Society of Philadelphia : Two 3Iacacus 

 ocreatus, Macacus maurus^ Ateles ater, Gercopithecus lalandi, 

 Fterojyua vulgaris, Heiyesfes griseus, Bassaris astida, Viverra 

 indica, two Tragulus Javanicus, Dasyprocta acouchi, Ca?logenys 

 paca, Sciiiriis variabilis, HypsiprymniLs rufescens. Jacob Binder : 

 A colloidal mass with nodules of osteo-dentine embedded, from the 

 tusk of an Elephant. Dr. H. C. Chapman : Placenta of Asiatic Ele- 

 phant, born in Philadelphia. Dr. Geo. H. Horn : Two Atalapha 

 {Lasiurus) noveboracensis, Phila. Jos. Jeanes : Two young Ele- 

 phant skulls, Elephas indie us and E. africanas. Albert Koebele : 

 Nycticejus crepuscularis^Y'lorxdvi. Dr. Jos. Leid}- : Hesperoinys 

 (sp.). Roan Mt., N. C. ; Buffalo jaw, from a forest in the Uintah 

 Mts., portion of the great part of a skeleton observed by him in 

 the locality in which it is now extinct. Miss Miller : Horns of 

 Chamois, Alps. W. S. Yaux : Young Orang-Outang, from Phila- 

 delphia Zoological Gardens. 



Birds. — Philadelphia Zoological Society : Sycalisjlaveola, Bro- 

 togerys xanthoptera, Brazil ; Anser indicus. F. W. Allen : Dio- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



medea exulans. Hill : Otus vulgaris. Mrs. Herbert Russell 

 Walsh : Two hundred and ninety -seven (one hundred and twent}-- 

 one species) Bird skins, collected and prepared by the late Robert 

 Frazer. 



Amphibians and Fishes. — Albert Koebele : Eleven species Am- 

 phibians,' Florida. Dr. Jos. Leidy : Two species Salamanders, 

 two do. Fishes, Roan Mt., N. C. Dr. H. Allport : Erimyzon 

 sucetta, Centre Co., Pa. S. W. Ayer : Opercular bones, etc., 

 Megalojys fhrissoides. Mr. Holbrook : Argyrieosus (Vomer) seti- 

 pinnis^ Atlantic coast, Md. Dr. W. H. Jones: Nine species of 

 Fishes, Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. J. E. Mitchell: Amhlyopsis 

 spelaeus^ Mammoth Cave, Ky. National Mus., through Smiths. 

 Inst.: Fifty-two species of North American Fishes. 



Articidafe!<. — J. J. Brown : Lepas pectinata, Balanusyetc, Flor- 

 ida. Dr. H. C. Chapman : Lepidnotus, and Nymphon^ Mt. Desert, 

 Me. C. Chambers : Grillotalpa longipennis., Philadelphia. John 

 Ford: Libinia canaliculata^ Atlantic Cit}', N. J. Geo. Heberton : 

 Libinia canaliculata, Limulus pjolyphemus. Cape May, N. J. Dr. 

 W. H. Jones : Thirty-four species Crustacea, Atlantic and Pacific 

 Oceans ; Nautilograpsus minutus^ taken from side of ship Aca- 

 pulco. J. S. Kingsley : Six species Crustacea, in exchange. Dr. 

 J. A. Kite, Wasps' nest, Morgan Co., Pa. All>ert Koebele : Two 

 species Crustaceans ; two species Myriopoda, from Florida. J. E. 

 xMitchell: Nest of Tarantula, California. Dr. T. H. Streets: 

 Forty-two specimens Lepidoptera, Mantis (sp.), Yokohama, Japan. 

 U. S. Fish Commission, through Smiths. Inst. : Thirty named 

 species of Crustacea, Coast of New England. 



Vermes., Echinoderms, Goslenterafes, Bryozoans and Porifera. 

 — U. S. Fish Commission, through Smiths. Inst. : Thirteen species 

 of Annelida, Coast of New England. Dr. W. H. Jones : Four spe- 

 cies of Annelida, Pacific Ocean. Dr. Jos. Leidy : Lice from the 

 interior of pouch of White Pelican {Menopjon perale, Leidy), 

 Florida. Laura M. Towne : Filaria immilis, from heart of dog, 

 Beaufort, S. C. J. J. Brown: Gidaris trihuloides, Haiti. John 

 Ford : Euryale (sp.), Palermo, Ital3^ U. S. Fish Commission, 

 through Smiths. Inst. : Sixteen species Ecliinodermata, Coast of 

 New England. Dr. W. D. Hartman : Rotula (sp. ), Madagascar? 

 U. S. Fish Commission, through Smiths. Inst. : Eleven species of 

 Coslenterata, Coast of New England. Dr. W. H. Jones : Thirteen 

 species Coslenterata, Pacific Ocean. Dr. H. C. Chapman: Hyd- 

 roids, from Mt. Desert, Me. U. S. Fish Commission, through 

 Smiths. Inst. : Fifteen species Brj'ozoans and Porifera, Coast of 

 New England. 



Anna T. Jeanes : Glass models of Physophora niagnijica^ 

 Diphyes Sieboldi, Cyanea cajnllata, Oceania phosphorica.^ Sagai^- 

 tia bellis., Palythoa auricula, Phellia pjicta, Corynaclis clavigera, 

 Nemacula primula, Peachia hastata, Phymactis Jlorida, Evactis 

 artemisia, Tubulay'ia indivisa, Gorymorpha nutans, Laomedea 

 amphora, Bougainvillia fruiicosa. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Fossils. — Dr. Carter, through Dr. Jos. Leidy : Fragments of 

 bones of Uintatherium, Palsposyops, and fossil turtle-eggs, near 

 Ft. Bridger, W3^onilng. Walter Collins : Eight species of Fossils 

 from the cretaceous marl, Blackwoodtown, N. J. Dr. Corson, 

 through Dr. Jos. Leidy: Femur and fragments of jaw of Pal aeo- 

 syops major, and foot-bones of Uintatherium, near Fort Bridger, 

 Wyoming. Persifor Frazer : Two fossils. Wm. M. Gabb : Fish 

 teeth, Martinez, Contra Costa Co., Cal. G. N. P. Gale: Shark's 

 teeth and fragments of bone, Ashley River beds, S. C. Gustavus 

 Guttenberg : Fossil Fucoid ? near Erie, Pa. M. Hotchkiss and 

 John Gibb : Three fossils. Central coal shaft, Fairburg, 111. Dr. 

 Geo. M. Lawrence: Ammonites (sp.). Cretaceous of Hemstead 

 Co., Ark. R. L. Lamborn : Fish tooth (carboniferous), Irwin 

 Station, Westmoreland Co.. Pa. Dr. Jos. Leidy : Ivory of Mas- 

 todon, bored by mollusks, Rib of Manatee, and two fish vertebrae. 

 Phosphate beds, Ashley River, S. C. ; Tibia of Palseosyops., fossil 

 turtle-eggs, near Ft. Bridger, Wyoming. Thomas Meehan : Four 

 coal fossils, Schuylkill Co., Pa. J. W. Pike : Forty-eight specimens 

 of fossil ferns, etc., Mazon Creek, Grundy Co., 111. J. H. Redfield : 

 Pentremites <TO?YZo?in(subcarboniferous). E. S. Reinhold : Thirty- 

 six specimens coal fossils, Mahanoy City, Pa., A. L. Siler : 

 Fossil (sacrum). West branch of South fork of Rio Virgin River, 

 above Glendale, Utah. Wm. Spillman : Gcelorh.ynchus ornatus, 

 Clark Co., Miss. Charles Wachsmuth : Forty-five species of 

 Crinoids, from the Burlington Limestone, Burlington, Iowa. 

 Harry H. Wheeler : Crinoid, cut from a side-walk paved with upper 

 Silurian Limestone, Wabash, Ind. ; Four fossil Fishes, near Fort 

 Bridger, Wyoming. 



Ethnological and Miscellaneous. — Stephen Bowers : Sixteen 

 Indian skulls, from a burial place, Santa Barbara, Cal. ; Skull of 

 Flathead Indian, Oregon ; Skull of Peruvian, Onca, Peru. Miss 

 E. S. Boyd : Hawaiian skull, Sandwich Islands. W. C. Desmont : 

 Dart, used in salmon fishing by the Digger Indians, Sacramento 

 River, Cal., 1858. Jacob Geismar : Stone axe and arrow-head, 

 Haddonfield, IS". J. Prof. S. S. Haldeman : Eight pieces modern 

 Pueblo pottery. New Mexico; Tunisian drum, Tunis, N. Africa; 

 Stone tomahawk, two hammers, chisel and pestle, Gloucester Co., 

 N. J. ; Stone chisel, Indiana ; Pestle, Ohio ; Stone implement 

 found on the farm of Mr. Wittmer, Lancaster Co., Pa. ; twelve 

 pieces Pueblo potter}', New Mexico ; two stone hammers, modern 

 Sioux, and fragments of an earthen pot, from a cave, E. Tenn. ; 

 fifty-seven pieces of native pottery, two Sorcerer's chairs. Con- 

 juror's rattle, Necklace, three bowls made of the gourd-like fruit of 

 the calabash tree (Grescentia cujeta), by the Indians of British 

 Guiana; Native cloth, Island of Corisco. Prof W. de M. Hooper: 

 Stone implement, used ifor skinning, Misner's Farm, Pittsburg, 

 Carroll Co., Ind. Wm. L. Mactier: Snow-shoes, made by the 

 Otonagon Indians of Michigan. Miss Miller : Antiqiie linen shawl, 

 vase, lamp, mummied human hand,' ibis, etc., Eg3'pt. Wm. J. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



Potts : Fragments of Indian skeletons, pottery, etc., bank of the 

 Delaware River, below Kaighn's Point, Camden, N. J. Jos. Wil- 

 cox : Fragments of pottery, from a mound, St. John's River, Fla. ; 



Stone axe, pestle and arrow-head, Mitchell Co., N. C. ? Two 



pieces Ancient Peruvian potter}^ 



C. F. Parker. 



Respectfully- submitted by 



Joseph Leidy, 



Chairman Curators. 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



During the past j-ear eighteen (18) meetings were held ; the 

 average attendance being thirtj^ (30) persons. 



The Annual exhibition was held on the evening of October 15th, 

 at which time a large and interested compam- was present. 



The following is a summary of the principal subjects presented 

 during the 3'ear : — 



Dec. 1st, 18T9.— Filarite in the Bronchial Tubes of Cattle, by 

 Dr. James McCoart. 



Dec. 15th, 1819. — Modern Microscopical Work, by Dr. J. Gib- 

 bons Hunt. 



Dec. 15th, 18t9. — Description of Psorosperms found in Cysts 

 of Fishes, by John Ryder. 



Jan. 5th, 1880.— Pleuro-Pneumonia of Cattle, by Dr. John 

 Gadsden. 



Jan. 15th, 1880. — The Microscope as a means of Investigation, 

 by Dr. Carl Seller. 



Feb. 2d, 1880.— The Preparation of Material for Microscopical 

 Examination, by Dr. Seller. 



Feb. 2d, 1880. — Nuclei of the Eggs of the Common Limpet, by 

 Mr. John Ryder. 



Feb. 2d, 1880. — Observations upon the Nervous System of the 

 Common Centipede, hj Mr. John Ryder. 



Feb. 2d, 1880. — Observations upon a specimen of Actinoptae- 

 riuvi, by Mr. Edward Potts. 



Feb. IGth, 1880. — The Mounting of Microscopic Objects, by Dr. 

 Seller. 



Feb. 16th, 1880. — Description of Rhipidodendroyi and Halteria, 

 b^'- Mr. John Ryder. 




il4 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



March 1st, 1880. — Injecting and Special Methods of mounting 

 Microscopical Objects, by Dr. Carl Seller. 



March 1st, 1880. — Observations upon Sponges, by Mr. John 

 Eyder. 



March 1st, 1880. — A Plan to show Opaque Objects with the Gas 

 Microscope, by Persifor Frazer. 



March 15th, 1880. — Lithological Studies with the Microscope, 

 by Persifor Frazer. 



April 5th, 1880.— Histological Studies, by Dr. Seller. 



April 19th, 1880. — Lantern Exhibition, by Mr. Holman and 

 Mr. Ryder. 



May .3d, 1880. — Communication upon Fresh-water Sponges, by 

 Mr. E. Potts. 



May llth, 1880. — Communication upon the Eggs of the matica, 

 by Mr. E. Potts. 



Sept. Gth, 1880.— Life Forms at Atlantic City, by Mr. E. Potts. 



Sept. 20th, 1880 — Communication upon the Larvis of King 

 Crabs, by Mr. E. Potts. 



Oct. 14th and 15th, 1880.— Annual Exhibition. 



Nov, 1st, 1880. — Report of the Committee on Exhibits and Im- 

 provements in Microscopical Science at the Annual Exhibition, 

 by Dr. Hunt. 



Nov. 15th, 1880. — Communication upon the Development of the 

 Pyrulla, by Mr. Charles Perot. 



The following Members and Associates were elected during the 

 year. 



Memhei's: — John C. Wilson, Otto Luthy, Howard Kelly. 

 Associates: — Dr. Joseph Simsohn, Dr. James A. McCoart, Dr. 

 Edward T. Bruen, Dr. John W. Gadsden, Dr. Monroe Bond, Dr. 

 J. H. Wills, 



RoBT. J. Hess, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports 

 that during 1880, Dr. R. Bergh, Dr. W. D. Hartman, and Mr. 

 Angelo Heilprin have presented papers upon the Mollusca, which 

 have been accepted and published in the Academy's Proceedings. 




18 so.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUIA. 415 



The Section has again lost a valued member, Professor S. S. 

 Haldenian, who died September 10th, 1880. Professor Halderaan 

 manifested his interest by frequent contributions to our Museum, 

 as well as by papers published in the American Journal of Con- 

 cholog}'. He also presented to us a number of copies of text and 

 plates of his celebrated monograph upon the Fresh-water Univalve 

 Mollusca of the United States. These the Section reissued, the 

 work having been long out of print, and the sale resulted to its 

 pecuniary advantage. 



Mr. George W. Try on, Jr., Conservator of the Section, reports 

 as follows : 



About fifty distinct donations and purchases of recent shells 

 will be found recorded in the detailed list hereunto appended, 

 aggregating 1216 species, represented by 4574 specimens. These 

 have all been carefully determined, labeled, mounted, and placed 

 in the cases. 



Mr. Charles F. Parker has, as usual, afforded valuable assistance 

 in preparing these specimens for exhibition. 



Mr. John Ford continues to prepare for us sections of univalve 

 shells, showing their internal form and structure. He has pi*e- 

 sented over fifty of these during the year. We are indebted to 

 Miss Anna T. Jeanes for a number of beautiful glass models of 

 mollusks, and to Mr. Joseph Jeanes for a fine suite of California 

 shells, and mounted Unguals of Ghitonidse, etc. 



Mr. John H. Redfield has presented his entire and very com- 

 plete collection of Mar-gineUidae. 



The U. S. Fish Commission, and Dr W. H. Jones, U. S. N., 

 have presented numerous specimens, both in alcohol and dry. 



We have received from Dr. Isaac Lea, the tjq^e series of 

 Claiborne (Ala.) Eocene fossils, described and figured in his 

 '• Contributions to Geology," numbering 228 species. 



Mr. John A. Ryder has prepared a drawing in outline of the 

 gigantic Architeuthis princeps, Yerrill ; although onl^^ j^g of the 

 natural size, this drawing is upon a canvas twelve feet in length. 

 It is exhibited upon the wall of the Conchological gallery'. 



Our collection of fossil shells, the systematic arrangement of 

 which has been so long neglected, has at length, under the com- 

 petent supervision of Mr. Angelo Heilprin, received that attention 

 which its importance merits. Mr. Heilprin has critically studied 




416 PROCEEDINCxS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



and arranged the whole of the North American Eocene Collection, 

 and is now engaged upon the Miocene. 'These shells have all been 

 labeled and mounted by Mr. Parker. A suitable label has been 

 placed upon the drawers containing the " Swift Collection," and 

 these have been made accessible to the public. The Cephalopoda^ 

 Muricidse, Purpuridse, Fusidag, and Buccinidae of the general 

 collection have been rearranged in accordance with the latest 

 information upon these groups ; and it is proposed to continue 

 this work of revision upon the other families of marine shells as 

 opportunity offers. 



A rearrangement of the Land shells in accordance with the 

 natural groups of Dr. Louis Pfeiffer's " Nomenclator Heliceorum 

 Viventium," and of the ITnionidse, in accordance with the latest 

 edition of Dr. Lea's " Synopsis," will be commenced as soon as 

 possible. 



The Museum of Recent Conchology now contains 38,624 trays 

 and 136,387 specimens. 



There have been no changes made in the Bj'-Laws of the Section. 

 The officers for 1881 are : 



Director — W. S. W. "Ruschenberoer. 

 Vice-Director — John Ford. 

 Recorder — S. Raymond Roberts. 

 Secretary — John H. Redfield. 

 Treasurer — Wm. L. Mactier. 

 Conservator — Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Lihrarian — Edw. J. Nolan. 



Respectfully submitted, 



S. Raymokd Roberts, 



Recorder. 



The following are the additions to the Conchological Cabinet 

 received during 1880 ■: 



R. Arango. Two hundred and sevent3'-four species and A'arie- 

 ties of Cuban shells. 



W. G. Binney. Helix Ifayrani, Algiers. Testacella haliotoidea, 

 England. 



John Brazier. Bythinia hyalina, from New South Wales. 

 Eighty -four species Land, Fresh- water, and Marine shells from 

 Anstralia. 



J. J. Brown. A collection of mollusks from Florida and Haiti. 



W. W. Calkins. Unio Blandingianus and Tritonidea t^'ncta, 

 Florida. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



Caleb Cooke. Melania scabra^ Zanzibar. 



W. H. Doughert}-. • BuUmm^ Schiedeanus, Coaliuila, Mexico. 



John Ford. Arcn pexata^ Say, Newport, R. I. Five species 

 of marine shells, Atlantic City, N. J. Mytihi>t hamolns, Say, from 

 Seekonk River, Providence, R. I. Helix tuberculoma Conrad, 

 Sinaitic Desert. Natica duplicata and N. heros, with nidus, ova 

 capsules of Nassa frivUtata, Atlantic City, X. J. Fine specimen 

 of Cassis tuberosa, Bahamas. Over fifty specimens, sections of 

 shells. 



Andrew Garrett. Pariula decussafa and P. ganymedes. Domi- 

 nique Is., Marquesas. P. inflata, Taiwata, Marquesas. Partula 

 (sp.), Moorea, Society Isles. Trochus trochoidea, Society Isles, 

 Gai^dium (sp.), Paumotus Is. 



E. Hall. A collection of land and fresh-water shells from 

 various localities. Twenty-six species of fresh-water shells. 



Dr. W. D. Hartman. Embryonic Partulae. Cijclostoma in- 

 eomptas, near Bogota, S. A. Helix simila7-is, Fer., Japan. Three 

 species of Paiiula from Marquesas Islands. Partula Raiatensis 

 (type) from Raiatea. Partula ajyproximata, Raiatea. 



Henry Hemphill. Over two hundred species and varieties of 

 California shells. 



J. Gr. Hidalgo. Murex Tryoni (type), Lesser Antilles. Pici- 

 nula nodosa, Brazil. 



Anna T. Jeanes. Glass models of twelve species of nudibran- • 

 chiate mollusks. 



Joseph Jeanes. Mounted linguals of thirty-seven species of 

 mollusks. Ninety-nine species and varieties of land, fresh-water 

 and marine shells from California. 



Dr. W. H. Jones. Twenty-five species of pelagic mollusks from 

 the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. Scyllsea pelagica. Oxygyrus 

 Keraudrenii. 



Henry C. Lea. Twenty -four species of Claiborne Eocene fossil 

 shells, types of his descriptions. 



Dr. Isaac Lea. Type collection of Claiborne (Ala), Eocene 

 shells, consisting of 228 species ; arranged as described and figured 

 in his " Contributions to Geology." Voluta Junonia, Edgmont 

 Key, Fla. 



Joseph Leidy. Goniobasis proxima, Say, Piedmont Springs, 

 North Carolina 



E. T. Nelson, Eupleura Tampaensis, Conr., Tampa Bay, Fla. 



T. R. Peak*. Astarte castanea^ Say, Sandy Hook, N. j. 



John H. Redfield. Collection of Marginellidj^, including several 

 hundred specimens of about two hundred species and varieties. 

 Spirifer mucronatus, Hamilton group. 



S. R. Roberts. Macoma balthica, Linn., Collins' Beach, Del. 

 Helix cinnamomea. Trima pellucidula, Sandwich Isles. Cylin- 

 drella gracilicollis, Macroceramus Klatteanus, Bid. (ex auct.), 

 Port-au-Prince, Hayti. 



28 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Dr. W S. W. Riischenberger, Dione lupinaria,, San Bias. 



Prof. D. S. Sheldon. Physa gyrina, yonng, Davenport, Iowa. 



Hon. F. E. Spinner. Seven lots of marine shells (fifty -six spe- 

 cies) from the month of St. John's River. Fla. 



U. S. Fish Commission. Fifty-fonr species of marine MoUusca 

 from the New England coast, 



H. A. Ward (purchased). Glass models of six species of 

 Cephalopods. 



J. F. Whiteaves. Eight species of fluviatile and marine sliells, 

 from Queen Charlotte's Isl. and Gulf of St. Lawrence. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Vice-Director takes much pleasure in reporting to the 

 Academy the continued prosperity of the botanical department, 

 which, in fact, is qnite equal to all that can be expected of it, 

 until, by the good fortune of an endowment, funds can be supplied 

 regularly to extend its work. Meetings have been held every 

 month throughout the year except July and August, at each of 

 which valuable communications have been made by various mem- 

 bers. Some of the more important of these have been communi- 

 cated to the general meetings of the Academy, and have found a 

 place in its published proceedings. 



The Section now consists of thirty-one members, one having 

 been added during the year. 



The Conservator's report to the Section of the condition of the 

 Herbarium has been adopted by tlie Section as its report to tlie 

 Academy, and is as follows : — 



The accessions to the Academy's Herbarium during the past 

 year have been large and valuable, and the mounting and distri- 

 bution of the plants received have made large demands upon the 

 time of the Conservator and of the members of the Section who 

 have kindly aided him. 



Among the valuable contributions received were the collections 

 of the late Dr. Charles Pickering, made in the years 1844-5, during 

 a journey to Malta, Egypt, Arabia and India, and presented to the 

 Academy by his widow, Mrs. Sarah S. Pickering. The number 

 of species is estimated at about 1500, and, as none of them were 

 named, the labor of distributing them in their proper natural 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



order (which has been performed by Messrs. Meehan and Biirk), 

 has been slow, but is now completed. 



From Di-. Gray, of Cambridge, important contributions have 

 been received. Dr. Garber has presented a collection of 100 

 species collected by himself recently in Porto Rico, while some 

 'i.'SO species of Mexican plants, collected b}' Drs; Parr}- and Palmer, 

 have been added. 



In the department of the Lower Cryptogams the additions have 

 been of a nearly complete series of the Mosses and Hepaticae of 

 X. America, collected and named by the late lamented Austin, and 

 presented by the liberalit}^ of members of the Section, and of 200 

 species of N. American Fungi, collected, determined and pre- 

 pared by J. B. Ellis, and presented l)y Mr. Martindale. 



The total number of species contributed during the year is 

 estimated at 3100, a very large proportion of them being new to 

 the Herbarium. 



Some progress has been made in the mounting of the Noi'th 

 American Herbarium, the orders from Polemoniacea? to Scrophu- 

 lariacej^} inclusive having been completed. Mr. Scriliner has con- 

 tinued his work upon the determination and the mounting of the 

 Grasses, though interrupted by long and serious illness. Those 

 familiar with Herbarium work can appreciate the amount of labor 

 yet required to sift the material now upon our shelves, to deter- 

 mine the doubtful species and to mount the whole.* Volunteer 

 labor is hardh' adequate to take care of the new accessions, and, 

 until some endowment shall secure to the Academy the constant 

 work of a competent botanist, the completion of the task must 

 remain for the future. 



Much inconvenience has been heretofore experienced from the 

 want of a proper place to receive and display such seed-vessels 

 and vegetable products as were too large to place in the herbarium 

 sheets. Such objects have necessarily been placed in the gallery 

 of the Museum, too distant from the botanical working-room to 

 be readily consulted. The liberalitj' of a member of the Acad- 

 emy, whose aid has often supplemented its needs and sustained 

 the hands of its workers, has removed this difficulty, and we have 

 now in the botanical room a most convenient and capacious work- 

 ing table, containing sixty-four large drawers for the reception of 

 seed-vessels, pine-cones, wood-sections, etc. 



The Conservator must acknowledge, as heretofore, tlie efficient 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



aid received from Mr. Chas. F. Parker in the work of poisoning 



and arranging the collections received during the year and for 



other material assistance. 



John H. Redpield, 



Conservator. 

 December \Wi, 1880. 



The officers elected for the forthcomino- year are : 



Director. — Dr. W. S. AV. Ruschenberger. 



Vice-Director. — Thomas Meehan. 



Recorder. — F. L. Scribner. 



Gor. Secretary. — Isaac C. Martindale. 



Conservator, — John H. Redfleld. 



Treasurer. — J. 0. Schimmel. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice-Director, 



Donations to Herbarium and Museum. — Mrs. Sarah S. Pickering, 

 of Cambridge, Mass. : 1200 species plants, collected by the late 

 Dr. Chas. Pickering, in the years 1844 and 1845, in Malta, Egypt, 

 Arabia, Zanzibar and India, also lot of seed-vessels, etc. Chas. 

 F.Parker: Lechea Novae Gesarise Austin, Bergen Co., N. Y., 

 (author's type) ; Fracjaria Gillmani, Clinton, Detroit, Mich, 

 (author's type) ; Guizotia oleifera., D. C, African species, from 

 Ballast, Camden, N, J. ; Lycopus sessilifolius, Gr., Batsto, N. J. ; 

 Lycopus Europseus, Ballast, Camden, N. J. Wm, M. Canb}- : 

 Phlox Stellaria^ Gr., Nashville, Tenn. ; 5 species plants from Cali- 

 fornia, new to the collection ; 111 species of plants from Europe, 

 Syria, S. Africa, etc., many of them new to the collection. Dr. 

 Asa Gray: 161 species plants from California. Arizona, Oregon, 

 Washington Terr., Turkistan, and Micronesian Islands, mostly 

 new to the collection. Prof C, J. Sargent : Aster Herveyi, Gr., 

 Tiverton, R. I. ; Photographs of Conifene, from Oregon. Geo. E. 

 Davenport, Boston : Gheilanthes viscida, Davenp., California. 

 Isaac C. Martindale : Third and fourth centuries of Ellis' North 

 American Fungi; Gorethrogyne filaginifolia, Nutt, San Diego Co., 

 Cal. ; specimens of Oas/a ??pa re.sca, L., var. ^»;eKcana, with ab- 

 normal fertile spikes, from Pitman's Grove, N. J. ; Bark of Pinus 

 Tnitis.! Mx. ; Brickellia VincenUana.^ Greene, new species. New 

 Mexico ; Gorrigiola litteralis^ L., Ballast, near Philadelphia. Dr. 

 C. C. Parry, l)aven])ort, la. : Tithonia tubseformiSj Cass., cidt. at 

 Davenport, from Mexican seed ; Mexican mats and rope made 

 from fibre of ^f/aue heteracantha ; Fibre of Agave Americana. 

 A. L. Siler, Utah : Pentstemon Sileri^ Gr., nov. sp., Beaver Dam 

 Mts., Utah. Mrs, M. J. Myers, Syracuse, N. Y. : Epipactis Hel- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 421 



feborine Rich., var, viridans Gr., near S^yracuse, N. Y. Dr. Thos. 

 Lancaster : Poli/porus, growing on Hemlock Spruce, McKean 

 Co., Pa. Wm. H. Dougherty : Skeleton of stem of Opuntia im- 

 hricata; Capsule of Hanhuria; Stems of Euj^horbia anfis{/j:)hiUtica, 

 all from Chihuahua, Mexico. Aubrey H. Smith : MijoHotw versi- 

 color, Pers., Cobb's Creek, Darby, Pa. Thomas Bland, N. York : 

 Wax, from the leaves of the Carnauba Palm ( Copernicia ceriferay, 



Whip from the bark of , Jamaica ; Paper from the fibre of 



Plantain and Banana, Jamaica; llyri.stica fra grans, Houtt., Nut- 

 meg with its Mace and outer husk, Jamaica ; Seeds of the follow- 

 ing plants from West Indies : Lucuma mammosa, Gris., Feuillea 

 cordifolia, Ser., Coix lachryma, L., Sajnndus sajwnaria, L., 

 Adenanthera paronina, L., Abi^us precatorius, L., GuUandina 

 Bonduc, L., Anacardium occidentale, L., GuUandina BonduceUa, 

 li. ; Wood of the Down tree {Ochroma Lagopus). Thos. Meehan : 

 Pellaea at ropurpurea^ Link., collected in Southern Utah, by A. 

 L. Siler ; Sedum Meehani, Gra}^ collected in Southern Utah, by 

 A. D. Siler. Isaac Burk : Wood of Herifiera, Africa. Dr. A. P. 

 Garber: 95 species of plants, collected by him at Yaueo, Porto 

 Rico, in 1880, named by' Dr. Gray and Mr. Oliver of Kentucky. 

 John H. Redfield : 217 species plants collected by Dr. C. C. Parry 

 and Dr. E. Palmer, near San Luis Potosi, Mexico, named at Kew 

 and Cambridge ; 57 species Ferns, collected by A. Fendler, in the 

 Island of Trinidad, W. I., in 1879-80, supplementary to a collec- 

 tion presented in 1878, named by Prof. D. C. Eaton; 7 species 

 plants from Florida and Tropical America. J. H. Redfield, J. C. 

 Martindale. Thos. Meehan, Wm. M. Canby, Dr. Chas. E. Schaffer, 

 Dr. J. Bernard Brinton : Complete set of the Mosses and Ilepaticifi 

 of N. America, collected and named by the late Coe F. Austin, 

 consisting of 518 species of Mosses and 124 species of Hepaticae. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Tiie Entomological Section, throughout the past j-ear has held 

 its regular meetings, excepting during the months of July and 

 August. Most of the meetings have been quite interesting, owing 

 to the man}' original communications, both verbal and v/ritten, 

 that have been presented. These lectures, as they may be called, 

 were devoted to illustrating some of the variations of form, etc., 

 of many entomological species and genera. At the same time 

 opportunity has been aff"orded to those so desiring, to describe 

 new species of the entomological fauna, and to present their ob- 

 servations to the public. That the claims of priority of description 

 thus made, might not be lost by the several authors, such com- 

 munications have been condensed and published in the Proceedings 

 of the Section. The more full and complete papers are, as hereto- 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



fore, published in the Transactions of the American Entomologi- 

 cal Society. There have been eight pa})ers presented and pulilished 

 by the latter society during the 3'ear, comprising 338 pages of 

 printed matter in octavo form, illustrated by seven plates. This, 

 in connection with 24 pages of the published Proceedings of the 

 Section make a total of 362 pages of entomological publications 

 issued since last annual meeting. 



The entomological collections of the Academy have been care- 

 fully attended to through the year, by the Conservator, Mr. Geo. 

 B. Cresson, and have been preserved from all infection or loss. 



By the death of Mr. James Ridings, in Jul}-, the section lost 

 one of its most valued members. Mr. Ridings was one of the 

 founders of the American Entomological Society, and thi'ough his 

 many valuable discoA^eries was well known among the entomolo- 

 gists of the United States. 



At the annual meeting of the section, held December 13th, the 

 following gentlemen were re-elected as officers for the ensuing year: 



Director. — John L. LeConte, M. D. 



Vice-Director. — George H. Horn, M. D. 



Treasurer. — E. T. Cresson. 

 Recorder. — J. H. Ridings. 



Conservator. — Geo. B. Cresson. 

 Publication Committee. — George H. Horn, M. P. 



Samuel Lewis, M. I>. 



At the last annual meeting of the American Entomological 



Society the sum of seventy-five dollars was contributed towards 



the funds of the Academy-. 



Respectfully submitted, 



James H. Ridings, 

 Recorder. 



REPORT OF MTNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL 



SECTIOX. 



The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section would 

 respectfully report : 



Meetings of the Section have been held monthly, except during 

 Jul}" and August. The attendance has been good. A number of 

 interesting papers were read, and man}' valuable communications 

 and donations made. During the year, the first volume of its pro- 

 ceedings was published, containing scientific papers and commu- 

 nications to January 1st, 1880. The collection of local rocks and 



\ 




1880 J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



minerals has outgrown the i)hice provided for it. It is almost 

 complete as to the rocks of Philadelphia, and of Delaware, Mont- 

 gomery and Bucks counties. Believing, as he does, that this 

 collection will grow into one of great importance and interest, he 

 is glad to state that the desire of the Section for a better location 

 for it has been granted b}* the Council of the Academy. 



Resi'>POtfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 



Philadelphia, December 27th, 1880. 

 To the Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section : 



The mineral collection of the Academy has been improved 

 during the past year by the addition of the usual number of dona- 

 tions. These have been carefully labeled and placed in the cases 

 b}^ Mr. Charles F. Parker, to whose industry and care we are 

 chiefly indebted for the satisfactory arrangement and labeling of 

 all our specimens. I submit with this a list of the donations 

 during the past year. The collection is in a satisfactory con- 

 dition. 



Joseph Willcox, 



Conservator. 



Addition!< to Mineralogical Cabinet during the year 1880: — 

 Jas. W. Beath : Twenty -five specimens of polished Agates, from 

 Oberstein, Germany, and Paraguay ; Crocidollte, S. Africa. C. S. 

 Boutcher : Proustite, Gunnison, Co., Colorado. Walter Collins : 

 Asphaltum, Cretaceous Marl, Blackwoodtown, N, J. Chas. Doble : 

 Millerite, Chalcopyrite and Niccoliferous P^a-rhotite, Gap Mine, 

 Lancaster Co., Pa. W. 11. Dougherty : Xative Gold, also a fine col- 

 lection of Xative Silver, Silver ores, Argentiferous Galena, Ruby 

 Silver, Cassiterite, etc., Mexico; Green Sand, San Antonio River, 

 Texas. John Ford : Stilbite, Frankford. Philada. : Actinolite, 

 Hornblende, Lafayette. Montgomery Co., Pa, John Garvin: 

 Native Gold in Quartz, Battle Branch, Ga. E. Goldsmith: Lignite, 

 containing Fichtelite, Brazil Prof. S. S. Haldeman : Stalactite, 

 and six specimens of Agates, Argentine Republic. E. P. Hancock: 

 Two specimens Jetfersonite, Sterling, Sussex Co., N.J. ; Thorite, 

 Brevig, Norwa^^ W. W. Jefferis: Quartz pseud, after Dog-tooth 

 Spar; Picrolite (Slickenside,) Newlin, Chester Co., Pa ; AVavellite, 

 E. Whiteland, Chester Co., Pa. Dr. G. A. Koenig : Jarosite, 

 Chattee Co., Colorado. Dr. Isaac Lea : Amazonstone, and a fine 

 specimen of Sunstone, near Media, Del. Co., Pa. Dr. Jos. Leidy : 

 Three specimens of Talcose Slate, Soapstone Quarry, shore of the 

 Delaware River, above Easton, Pa. ; Corundum, Laurens Co., S. C. ; 

 Biotite, Steatite Quarry on Bushkill Creek, near Easton, Pa. H. 

 C. Lewis: Philadelphite, Phila. ; Hyalite, Germantown, Pliila. ; 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Halite, Saltville, Va. Wm. Lorenz : Chrysotile, Canada. Mr. 

 Loyer : Corundum, Chester Co., Pa. Miss Miller: Crystals of 

 Silver, Lake Superior; Hematite, Gypsum, Stalactite, Cliloras- 

 trolite, Halite, etc., from various localities. Dr. Weir Mitcliell : 

 Silicified Wood, Missouri River, above Bismarck. L. Palmer: 

 Albite,Vermiculite,Del. Co.,Pa. Theo. D. Rand : Kammererite and 

 Chromite, Radnor, Del. Co., Pa. ; Crystallized Quartz in Potsdam 

 Sandstone, Mont. Co., Pa. ; Herrengrundite, Herrengrund, Hun- 

 gary ; Orileyite, Burmali. J. L. Reed : Asbestus, Italy ; Clirys- 

 otile, Ontario, Canada. T. W. Ried : Chalcopyrite, Montgomery 

 Co., Pa. Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger : Copper Slag, Caldera, 

 Chile, 1856. Dr. J. Richard Taylor: Cerargyrite, Chloride of 

 Silver, with fractured Wavellite crystals. Galena with free Sulphur, 

 Millerite, and argentiferous Carbonate of Lead, Leadville, Colo- 

 rado ; Ore from the Ohio Mine, bearing Gold, Silver and Copper, 

 Breckenridge, Col. C. M. Wheatley : Fine specimen of Byssolite, 

 Chester Co., Pa. ; Azurite on Chalcopyrite, Upper Salford Mine, 

 Montgomery Co., Pa. ; Aurichalcite on Calcite, and white Apatite 

 Avith Byssolite ; Chalcopyrite, Pyrite and Melaconite, Jones Mine, 

 Berks Co., Pa. Dr. Jas. W. White : Corundum, Zircon, Storeville, 

 Anderson Co., S. C ; Corundum, Concord, N. C. ; Andesite with 

 Corundum, Hog-back Mt , N. C. ; a collection consisting of Zincite, 

 Rutile, Phlogopite, Graphic Granite, Chesterlite, Fibrolite, Garnet, 

 Damourite, Stalagmite, etc., from various localities. Joseph 

 Willcox: Autunite (Uranite), Mitchell Co., N. C ; Pyroxene, 

 Biotite ?, Apatite, Burgess, Ontario, Canada ; Corundum coated 

 with Margarite, Iredell Co., N. C. ; Danburite, Russel, St. Law- 

 rence 00.,"^". Y. ; Black Tourmaline, Westport. Ontario, Canada; 

 Scapolite, Pyroxene, and four specimens of Apatite, Bob Lake, 

 Ontario, Canada. A. E. Foote, in exchange for duplicate books : 

 nine specimens of Apatite, Renfrew, Ontario, Canada; Chrysotile, 

 four specimens of Titanite (Spliene), Titanite (Lederite), two 

 Yesuvianite, Beryl, Triphyllite, Celestite, Wollastonite, Gummite, 

 Uranotile, Tourmaline, Octahedral Crystals of Fluorite, with 

 Apatite and Calcite, from various localities. Purchased : Limon- 

 ite, Superior Mine, Michigan. 



Additions to Bock CoUeetion.—i o\m Ford: Hornblende, Soap- 

 stone Quarry, Lafayette Pa. ; Tourmaline and Hornblende Schist, 

 Tunnel near Girard Ave. Bridge ; Decomposing Gneiss with Mica, 

 ditto with Quartz, ditto with Manganese?, near west end of Cal- 

 lowhill St. Bridge, Philadelphia. G. H. Ivens : Geode of Limonite, 

 Kent Co., Md. W. W. Jetferis : Gneiss. John Hartman : Two 

 specimens of Crystalline Slag, taken from hearth of Blast Furnace, 

 Charlotte, N. Y. Dr. Jos. Leidy : Talcose Slate, Soapstone 

 Quarry, Pot Rock, Delaware River, above Easton, Pa. ; Indurated 

 Clay (Bridger Eocene), near F'ort Bridger, Wyoming. H. C. 

 Lewis : Glacier-scratched boulder, Belvidere, N. J. Theo. D. 

 Rand : Twenty-seven specimens of Rocks, from the neighborhood 

 of Philadelphia, for Local Rock collection; three specimens of 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



slags, from Puddling Furnace, Coatesville, Pa. Joseph H. TuU : 

 Six specimens of Rul)y Silver, near Austin, Nevada. 



SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM. C. HENSZEY, 



Treasurer, for the year ending Nov. 30, 1880. 



Dr. 



To Balance from last account $1032 99 



" Initiation fees 230 00 



" Contributions (semi-annual contributions) 2244 98 



" Life Memberships ; 500 00 



" Voluntary Contributions from Life Members 615 00 



" Admissions to Museum 455 30 



" Sale of Guide to Museum 62 00 



" " Duplicate Books 7 75 



" Donation from Mineralogical and G. Section towards 



Proceedings 35 00 



" Donations towards Plates for Proceedings 10 00 



" Interest on Deposits 69 04 



" Interest on Phil, and Erie Railroad Bonds 30 00 



" Life Member Fund. Interest on Investment 120 GO 



" Maintenance Fund. " " " 30 00 



" Publication Committee. W. S. Vaux, Treasurer 507 04 



" Publication Fund. Interest on Investments 280 00 



" Barton Fund. " " " 240 00 



" Wilson Fund. Towards Salary Librarian 300 00 



" Freight returned 4 30 



" Phila. and Erie Railroad Bond, Transferred to Mainte- 



tenance Fund 1000 00 



$7763 40 



Cr. 



Salaries, Janitors, etc $2960 00 



Freight 60 59 



Inspecting Boiler 10 20 



Repairs 188 05 



Insurance 



Jars and Bottles 



Coal 



Gas 



Mounting Bird 



Stationery and Postage Stamps 136 55 



Books 



Alcohol : 



Publication Committee. W. S. Vaux, Treasurer 



Newspaper Reports 



Water Rents 



Trays 



Binding 



Printing and Paper • 1539 63 



Plates and Printing 142 52 



Miscellaneous 448 54 



Life Memberships transferred to Life Membership Fund. 500 00 



6852 19 



Balance^ $911 21 



^ During the year there was received from voluntary contributions and 

 donations $660, which, with a Bond for $1000, used for general purposes, 

 indicates that the current expenses exceed the regular income over $1600, the 

 balance at the close of the year being a little less than at the commencement. 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



LIFE MEMBERSHIP FUND. (For Maintenance.) 



Balance per last Statement $500 00 



Life Memberships Transferred to this account 500 00 



Interest 120 00 



Sill20 00 

 Transferred to General Account 120 00 



To Balance for Investment $1000 00 



BARTON FUND. (For Printing and Illustrating Publications.) 



Balance per last Statement $240 00 



Interest 240 00 



$480 00 

 Transferred to General Account 240 00 



Balance $240 00 



JESSUP FUND. (For Support of Students.) 



Balance last Statement $551 67 



Interest on Investments 560 00 



$1111 67 

 Disbursed 590 00 



Balance $521 67 



MAINTENANCE FUND. 



Total amount received $1550 00 



Interest 30 00 



Less paid for Printing , 



Invested in Bonds Phila. and Erie Railroad. 

 Interest Transferred to General Account 



Balance $526 35 



I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance $330 26 



Rents Collected 97 00 



Ground-rents Collected 1096 00 



$1523 32 



For Books ;«^577 56 



Expenses Sale of Prop'ty for arrearages of Ground-rent... 167 25 



Costs, Insurances, etc 



Repairs to Properties 



Taxes 



Water Rents 



Collecting 



Balance $209 55 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



PUBLICATION FUND. 



Balance last Statement $:->38 25 



Income from Investments 350 00 



$688 25 



Transferred to General Account 280 00 



To Balance $408 25 



THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance last Statement $141 57 



Interests on Investments 570 00 



Received from W. S. Vaux for Duplicate Books 8 00 



$719 57 



Paid for Books $300 00 



" Binding 11 55 



To General Account towards salary of Librarian oOO 00 



$611 55 



Balance $108 02 



MRS. STOTT FUND. (For Publication.) 



Twelve Months' Interest... $112 00 



Paid to (W. S. Vaux) Publication Committee 114 00 



JOSHUA T. .JEANES FUND. (For Maintenance.) 



Bequest by him paid by Heirs $20,000 00 



Invested in three Mortgages $7000 00 



3000 00 



10,000 00 



$20,000 00 



ECKFELT FUND. 

 To be invested $2466 86 




428 



PROCEEDINGS OF ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES. [1880. 



The election of officers for 

 result : — 

 President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, 



Councillors to serve three 

 years, .... 



Finance Committee, 



1881 Avas held, with the following 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. 



Wm. S. Vaux, 



Thomas Meehan. 



Edward J. Nolan, M. P. 



Geo. H. Horn, M. D. 



Wm. C. Henszey. 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, 



Chas. F. Parker, 



R. S. Kenderdine, M. D. 



Wm. L. Mactier, 



Aubrey H. Smith, 



Henry C. Chapman, M. D., 



Geo. y. Shoemaker. 



Edw. S. Whelen, 



Clarence S. Bement, 



Aubre}^ H. Smith, 



S. Fisher Corlies, 



Geo. Y. Shoemaker. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1880. 



MEMBERS. 



January 27. — A. R. Thomas, M. D., Wm. H. Jenks, John S. 

 Jenks, Chas. W. Pickering, Henry F. Formad, M. D., Charles P. 

 Tasker, John Wagner, Ferris W. Price, Geo. W. Biddle. 



February 2^. — R. S. Huidekoper, M. D., Frances Emily White, 

 M. D., David Townsend, Thos. Miles, John S. Capp. 



3Iarch SO, — Paris Haldeman, Geo. B. Heckel, Emlen Physick, 

 M. D. 



May ^5.— Henry S. Gratz, R. S. Peabody, Mrs. R. S. Peabody, 

 Wm. Barbeck. 



October 26.—Rq\. Wm. F. C. Morsell, Samuel R. Knight, M. Di 



November 30. — Charles S. Turnbull, M. D., James M. Anders, 

 M. D. 



For list of Correspondents elected see Report of the Corre- 

 sponding Secretary. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 429 



ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



December 1st, 1879— November 30th, 18S0. 



Abbot, E, H. Physics and hydraulics of the Mississippi River. Dr. I. 



Minis Hays. 

 Allen, J. A. U. S. Geol and Geogr. Surv. of Ter. Miscellaneous publica- 

 tions, No. 12. History of North American Pinnipeds, 1880. The 

 Department of the Interior. 

 Allen, T. F. Charace* of America. Pts. 1 and 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 AUis, O. A. Deformity from fractures at the lower end of the humerus. The 



Author. 

 Alumni Association, Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. 16th annual report. 



The Society. 

 American Angler's Guide. 3d Ed., 1849. S S. Haldeman. 

 American Museum of Natural History. 11th annual report. The Director. 

 Annual record of science and industry for 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Arango, R. Contribucion a la fauna malacologica Cubana. The Author. 

 Archajological Section of the St. Louis Academy of Sciences. Contributions 



to the archeology of Missouri. Part I, Pottery. The Academy. 

 Astor Library. 31st annual report, 1880. The Trustees. 

 Baillon, M. H Dictionnaire de botanique. 12me Fasc. 



Natural history of plants. Vol. 6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Balfour, F. M. Comparative embryology. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Barber, E. A. Comparative vocabulary of Utah dialects. The Author. 

 Biircena, Mariano. Terremoto del 17 de Maj o de 1879 



Viaje a la Caverna de Cacahuamilpa, 1874. The Author. 

 Datos para el esludio de las rocas mesozoicas de Mexico, y sus fosiles 

 caracteristicos, 187-5. Di*. .Jos. Leidy. 

 Barrande, J. Brachiopodes. Vol. 5, 1879. The Author. 

 Beale, L. S. How to work with the microscope. 5th Ed. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Bentham, G. and J. D. Hooker. Genera plantarum. Vol. 3, Pt. I. I. \ . 



Williamson Fund. 

 Berg, Dr. C. Observaciones acerca de la familia Hyponomeutidre. 

 Apuntes Lepidopterologiques. 

 Hemiptera argentina, 1879. 

 La Reina de las Flores, 1880. The Author. 

 Binney, W. G. North American species of Zonites. The Author. 

 Board of Directors of City Trusts. 10th annual report. The Board. 

 Bocage, J. V. Barboza de. Melanges ornithologiques, V. 

 Liste des Antilopes d' Angola. 

 Algumas observa^oes e additamentos ao artigo do Sr. A. C. Smith intitu- 



lado "A sketch of the birds of Portugal." 

 Note sur une nouvelle espece africaine du genre " Coracias." 

 Aves das possesoes portuguezas d'Africa occidental, 14th and 16th List. 

 Subsidies para a fauna das pos. portuguezas d'Africa occidental. 

 Aves da Zambezia e do Transvaal. The Author. 

 Bohnensieg, G. C. W. and W. Burck. Repertorium annuum literatune botan- 

 icte periodicoe. T. 6, 1879. 

 Encyklopedie der Naturwissenschaften. le Abth., 8 Lief., 1880. L V. 

 Williamson Fund. 

 Bolton, H. Carrington. Table showing the behavior of certain minerals with 



Citric Acid alone and with reagents. The Author. 

 Bommer, .J. E. Monographie de la classe des Fougeres, 1867. Dr. F. V. 

 Hayden. 




430 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Borre, A. Preudhomme de. Espcces de la tribu des Feronides qui se rencon- 

 ti-ent en Belgique. Ire Partie. 

 Kspeces des tribus des Panageides, des Loricerides, des Licindes, des 



Chlwniides et des Broscides (jui se rencontrent en Belgique. 

 De la meilleure disposition il donner aux caisses et cartons des collections 



d'insects 

 Note sur le Breyeria Borinensis. The Author. 

 Brazier, J. Synonyms of, and remarks upon Port Jackson, New Caledonian 

 and other shells, with their distribution. 

 Brief account of the natives of western Australia, 1879. The Author. 

 Brehms Thierleben. 8 Bd., 1-8 Heft. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Breviere, L. Catalogue des mollusques observes dans le Department de la 



Nievre. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bronn, H. G. Morphologische Studien iiber die Gestaltung-Gesetze der Na- 

 turkorper iiberhaupt, und der organischen insbesondere. 1858. Dr. 

 .Jos. Leidy. 

 Thier-Reichs. 6er Bd., III. Abth., 2-12 Lief. Wilson Fund. 

 Bruhl, C. B. Zootomie aller Thierklassen. Atlas. Lief. 14 & 15. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Brun, J. Diatomees des Alpes et du .Jura. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Brush, Geo. J. Mineral locality at Bi-anchville, Connecticut. 4th paper. 



The Author. 

 Buchanan, J. Manual of indigenous grasses of New Zealand. Wellington, 



1880. Geological Survey of New Zealand. 

 Bureau of Education, circulars of information, Nos. 2 and 3. Department of 



the Interior. 

 Bureau of Statistics, Treasury Department, quarterly reports, Sept. 30, 1879- 



June 20, 1880. The Department 

 Butler, A. G. Illustrations of typical specimens of Lepidoptera heterocera in 

 the collection of the British Museum. Pt. 14. The British Museum. 

 Calkins, W. W. American conchology. Catalogue of Uniones. 1880. The 



Author. 

 Cameletti, .J. II binomio di Newton. The Author. 

 Catalogue of the Queensland Court, International Exhibition. Sydney, 1879. 



J. Brazier. 

 Catalogue of the officers and students of Yale College, 1879-80. The College. 

 Catalogus der ethnologische Afdeeling van het Museum van bet Bataviaasch 

 Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. 2e D,ruck. The Society. 

 Central Park Menagerie, report of Directors, 1879. The Directors. 

 Chambers, V. T. President of Cincinnati Society of Natural History, annual 



address, 1879. The Author. 

 Chapman, H. C. Memoir of James Aitken Meigs, M. D. 



Lecture introductory to the course of Jefferson Medical- College for the 

 session of 1880-81. The Author. 

 Chatin, J. Les organes des sens dans la serie animale. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Chief of Engineers, report, 1878. Parts 1, 2 and 3. Engineers' Department, 



U. S. A. 

 Chief Gold Commissioner for the Province of Nova Scotia, report, 1863. De- 

 partment of Mines, Nova Scotia. 

 Chief of Oi'dnance, annual report, 1879. War Department. 

 Chili. Mcmoria de Guerra i Marina, 1878. 

 Memoria de Relaciones Esteriores, 1879. 

 Memoria de Ministro de Justicia, etc. 1879, 

 Memoria de Ministro del Interior, 1879. 

 Projecto de Codigo rural, 1879. 

 Anuaria hidrografico de la Marina de Chili, Ano V. 

 Anuaria de la Oiicina central meteorologica, 1874. 

 Anuaria estadistico, 1876-77. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 431 



Sessioaes estraordinarias de la Camara de Seiiadores, 1878, Nos. 1 & 2. 

 Sessiones estraordinarias de la Camara de Disputados, 1878, Nos. 1 , 2 & 4. 

 Estadistica Agricola 1877-78. 



Estadistica bibliografica de la Literatura Chilena, T. 2. University of 

 Chili. 



riiurch, .1. A. New methods of ore concentration and gold amalgamation. 

 The heat of the Comstock lode. The Author. 



Clement, Ch. Constitution Geologique de Luxembourg. 1864. Dr. F. V. 

 Hayden. 



Cobbold. T. S. Parasites. 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Cohn, Ferd. Biologie der Pflanzen. Ill, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Colbeau, .J. A. .1. Materiaux pour la Faune malacologique deBelique. I. The 

 Author. 



Colonial Museum and Geological Survey of New Zealand, 14th Annual re- 

 port. 1879. 

 Kaport of Geological Explorations, 1878-79. The Author. 



Commission de la Carte gx^ologique de Belgique, Hoboken et Contich, Anvers, 

 Lennick-St-Quentin, Malines, Lierre, Heyst-op-den-Berg, Putte and 

 Boom, with maps. The Commission. 



Commiss' oner of agriculture, report, 1878. The Author. 



Commissioner of Fisheries of the State of California Report 1878 and 1879. 

 The Commissioners. 



Commissioners of Public Charities of the State of Pennsylvania. Tenth an- 

 nual report, .Jan. 1880. The Board. 



(,'omptroller of the Currency, annual report, 1879. The Author. 



(.'ope, E. D. On the foramina perforating the posterior part of the squamosal 

 bone of the mammalia. 

 On tlie genera of the Creodonta. The Author. 



(Wesson, E. T. and Edw. Norton. Tenthredinidne and Uroceridie of North 

 America. The Author. 



Cuvier, G. Revolutions of the surface of the globe. 1831. Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Dana, .J. D. Manual of geology, 3d Ed., 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Dawkins, W. B. Early Man in Britain and his place in the Tertiary period, 

 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 The classification of the tertiary period by means of the mammalia. 

 Further discoveries in the Cresswell Caves' 1879. The Author. 



Dawson, Geo. M. Geological map of a portion of the southern interior of 

 British Columbia. Geological Survey of Canada. 



DeCandolle, A. and C. Monographiae phanerogamarum prodromi. Vol. 2, 

 1870. Wilson Fund. 



Decken, C. van der. Reisen in Ost-Afrika. 3er Bd.^ III. Abth. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



De Clercq, F. S. A. Het Maleisch der Molukken, 1876. Batavian Academy 

 of Sciences. 



Department of Agricultux-e. Special Report, Nos. 20-27. 

 Circular regarding needs of. The Department. 



Department of Mines, Nova Scotia, reports, 1862, 1864, 1865, 1867-1879. De- 

 partment of Mines, Nova Scotia. 

 Same, 1864. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 



Department of Statistics and Geology of the State of Indiana, 1st annual report, 

 1879. The Department. 



Deshayes, G. P. Anlmaux sans vertcbres decouvertes dans le bassin de Paris. 

 T. 2me, texte, pp. 641, et seq. Atlas, planches 40-107. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Dohrn, A. Catalogus Hemipterorum, 1869. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 



Doremus, C. A. and R. A. Witthaus. Chemistry of the Cobb-Bishop poisoning. 

 The Authors. 



Drapei', J. W. Experiments on solar light. Dr. I. Minis Hays. 




432 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Dumeril, A. and Bocourt. Mission scientifique au Mexique et dans TAmerique 

 Centrale. Recherches Zoologiques. 3me Partie. Etudes sur les reptiles 

 et les batraciens. I. Y. Williamson Fund, 



Eaton, D. C. Ferns of North America. Pts. 22-27 and Title and Index to 

 Vol. 2. J. H. Redfield. 



Ellet, C, Jr. The mountain top track, 1856. Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Elliott, D. G. Monograph of the Bucerotidae. Pts. 7 and 8. 

 Monograph of the Felidse. Pt. 5. 



Encyclopedia Britaunica. 9th Ed. Vols. 10 and 11. I. A'^. Williamson Fund. 



Encyklopfedia der Naturwissenschaften. 1 Abth., 6-13 Lief. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 



Engelman, Geo. Revision of the genus Pinus and description of Pinus El- 

 liottii, 1880. 

 Acorns and their germination. The Author. 



Engler, A. Entwicklungsgeschichte der Pflanzenwelt. I. Th. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 



Evarts, H. C, M. D. A new species of Ophrydium. The Author. 



Exposition Universelle de 1878. Catalogue du Ministere de 1' instruction pub- 

 lique des cultes et des beaux-arts. Tomes 1, 2, 3. Section Beige. Catal. 

 officiel. Minister of Public Works. 



Falsan, A., and E. Chantre. Monographic geologique des anciens glaciers et 

 du terrain erratique de la partie moyenne du Bassin du Rhone. Atlas, 

 1875. Society of Agriculture of Lyons. 



Farlow, W. G. Impurities of drinking-water. The Author. 



Financial reform almanac, 1880. Cobden Club. 



Fisher, P. Subdivisions des ammonites The Author. 



Fitzgerald, R. D. Australian orchids. Pts. 1-5. Colonial Secretary, New 

 South Wales. 



Fol, H. Etudes sur les Appendiculaires du Detroit de Messine, 1872. The 

 Author. 



Foote, A. E. Catalogue of minerals. 5tli Ed. The Author. 



Friele, H. Tungebevtebningen hos de Norske Rhipidoglossa. The Author. 



Fritsch, A. Fauna der Gaskohle und der Kalksteine der Permformation Boh- 

 mens. Bd. 1, H. 1 und 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Frommann, C. Structur und Bewegungserscheinungen des Protoplasma der 

 Pilanzenzellen. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Galvani, Luigi, portrait of. Academy of Sciences of Bologna. 



Geological and Natural History Survey of Minnesota, reports, 1874, 1875, 1876, 

 1877-78. N. H. Winchell. 



Geological explorations and surveys west of the 100th Meridian. Topographi- 

 cal Atlas. Wheeler, 1875. Engineer Department, U. S. A. 



Geological Survey of Canada, reports of progress, 1844, 1848-49, 1850-51, 

 1851-52, 1852-53, 1853-56, 1857, 1858, 1875-76. The Survey. 



Geological Survey of India. Records, Vol. XII, Parts 2 and 3. Memoirs, 8vo, 

 Vol. 16, Pt. 1. Memoirs, 4to. Palseontologia Indica, Ser. II., Vol. I, 

 4; Ser. XIII, I, 1 ; Ser. XIV. I, 1. The Survey. 



Geological Survey of Kentucky. A general account of the Commonwealth of 

 Kentucky. Report on the timbers of Boyce and Mercer Counties. By 

 W. M. Linney. Chemical report of the sojls, coal, ore, etc. By Robert 

 Peter. The Survey. 



Geological Survey of New Jersey. Annual report, 1879. The Author. 



Geological Survey of Sweden. Eleven geological maps. The survey. 



Geology of Wisconsin. Survey of 1873-79, Vol. Ill, with folio Atlas. Annual 

 report, 1879. The Survey. 



Geyler, H. T. Ueber fossile Pflanzen aus der Juraformation Japans. The 

 Author. 



Gibson, G. A. Sequence and duration of the cardiac movements. The Author. 



Gilbert, G. K. Geology of the Henry Mts., 1877. Department of the Interior. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 433 



Gilpin, E. The mines and mineral lands of Nova Scotia, 1880. Department 



of Mines, Nova Scotia. 

 Gould, J. The birds of Asia. Pts. 28, 29, 30 and 31. 



The birds of New Guinea. Pts. 3-11 inc. Wilson Fund. 

 Graf, L. Anleitung zur Kenntniss des Pferdes nach seiner iluszeren Korper- 



form, 1846. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Grateloup, Dr. Discours sur les sciences et les arts, 1837. Dr. I. Minis 



Hays. 

 Gray, Asa. Botanical contributions, V. The Author. 

 Gray, A. F. Littorina litorea, Linn, on the American coast. The Author. 

 Gruber, W. Beobachtungen aus der menschlichen und vergleichenden 



Anatomic. 1 and 2 H. I. V. Williamson Fund 

 Ueber den anomalen Canalis basilaris medianus des Os occipitale beim 



Mecsehen. The Author. 

 Haast. J. von. Geology of the Provinces of Canterbury and Westland, New 



Zealand. The Author. 

 Haeckel, E. Das System der Medusen, ler Th., le Halfte. Text and Atlas. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Haldeman, S. S. Unsymmetric arrow-heads and allied forms. The Author. 

 Hamilton, G. Biographical sketch of James Aitken Meigs, M.D. The Author. 

 Hampe, E. Enumeratio muscorum, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hanstein, J. v. Das Protoplasma, 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hayden, F. V. Five maps of portions of Wyoming, Idaho and Utah. Depart- 

 ment of Interior. 

 The Great West, 1880. The Author. 

 Hays, Dr. Isaac, framed portrait of. Dr. I. Minis Hays. 

 Hector, James. Handbook of New Zealand, 1879. J. Brazier. 

 Heger, A. Useful tables for finding specific gravity. The Author. 

 Heinemann, F. C. Catalogues, 188u. The Author. 

 Heller, A. A Kir. M. Termeszettudomanyi Tarsulat Konyveinek Czimjegy- 



zeke, 1877. Royal Hungarian Society of Sciences. 

 Helmholtz. Sensations of Tone, 1875. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Heule, J. Handbuch der Eingeweidelehre des Menschen. 

 Henry, Jos. A summary of researches in sound, 1879. Smithsonian Inst. 

 Herman, 0. Ungarns Spinnen-Fauna. 3 Bd. Royal Hungarian Society of 



Sciences. 

 Hermann, L. Handbuch der Physiologic. 2er Bd. 2er Th., 5 Bd. 1 Th. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hertwig. 0. & R. Die Actinien, 1879. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Hesse-Martegg, E. von. Nord-Amerika. 1-4 Bd. Dr. F. V, Hayden. 

 Heude, R. P. Conchyliologie fluviatile de la Province de Nanking et de la 



Chine Centrale. 5me and (5me Fasc. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hewitson, Wm. C. Illustrations of Diurnal Lepidoptera. Pt. 1. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Hewitson, W. C. and F. Moore, Description of New Indian Lepidopterous 



Insects. Rhopalocera, Heterocera. Asiatic Society of Bengal. 

 Hicks, H. On the Pre-Cambrian rocks of west and central Ross-shire. The 



Author. 

 Hidalgo, J. G. Moluscos marines de Espana, Portugal y las Baleares, 



Ent. 15, 16, 

 MdIuscos del Viaje al Pacitico, 1862-65. Pt. 3a, Ent. 1. The Author. 

 Hidegh. K. Chemische analyse ungarischer Fahlerze. Royal Hungarian 



Society of Sciences. 

 Hind, H. Y. Report of the Waverly Gold District, 1869. 

 Report on the Sherbrooke Gold District, 1870. 

 Report on the Mt. Uuiacke, Oldham and Renfrew Gold Mining Districts 



1872. 

 Report on a topographical survey of part of the Cumberland Coal Field 



1873, Department of Mines, Nova Scotia. 



39 




434 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



His, W. Anatomie menschlicher embryonen. I. Text and Atlas. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Hooker, J. D. The flora of British India. Pt. VII. The E. Indian Govern- 

 ment. 

 Hull, Edw. Geological age of the rocks forming the Southern Highlands of 

 Ireland. 

 On the upper limit of the essentially marine beds of the Carboniferous 



Group of the British Isles adjoining continental districts. 

 On the geological relations of the rocks of the South of Ireland to those 



of North Devon and other British and continental districts. 

 On the origin of the " Scalp," 

 On a deep boring for coal at Scarle, Lincolnshire. 



On the i-elations of the Carboniferous, Devonian and Upper Silurian Rocks 

 of the South of Ireland to those of North Devon. The Author. 

 Humphreys, J. T. Discoveries of minerals in Western North Carolina. The 



Author. 

 Hunfalvy, P. Literarische Berichte aus Ungai-n. 8 & 4 Bd. The Hungarian 



Academy of Sciences. 

 Hutton, F. W. Manual of the New Zealand Mollusca. Geological Survev, N. Z, 

 Huxley, T. H. The Crayfish. 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Index Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon-General's Office. Vol. I. 



War Department. 

 InostranzefF, A. Metamorphosirte Gesteine im Qouvernement Olonez.' 1879. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ein neues, ausserstes Glied in der Reihe der amorphen Kohlenstofi'e. 1880. 

 The Author. 

 Inspector of Mines of the anthracite coal regions of Pennsylvania, Reports, 



1878. .loseph M. Gazzam. 

 International Exhibition, Sydney, 1879. New Zealand Court. Appendix to 



official Catalogue, 1880. The Commissioners. 

 Jeffreys, .1. G. The deep-sea mollusca of the Bay of Biscay. The Author. 

 Joly, N. E. Une lacune dans la serie teratologique remplie par la decouverte 

 du genre Ileadelphie. 

 Sur le placenta de I'Ai. 



Nouvelles recherches tendant a etablir que le pretendu Crustace decrit 

 par Latreille, sous de nom de Prosopistoma, est un veritable insecte de 

 la tribu des Ephemerines. , 



Contribution a I'histoire naturelle et I'anatomie des Ephemerines. 

 Etudes sur I'embryogcnie des Ephumeres. The Author. 

 Julien, A. A. Spodumene and its alterations. The Author. 

 Just, L. Botanis'cher Jahrsbericht. 5er Jahrg., 1877, 3e Abth., 6er Jang. 1 H. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kansas State Board of Agriculture, quarterly report, Sept. 30, 1879. March 



31, 1880. The Author. 

 Keller, Ferd. Lake dwellings of Switzerland, 2 vols., 1878. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Keyserling, E.. Die Spinnen Amerikas. Laterigradae, 1880. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Kiener, L. C. Species general et iconographique des Coquilles vivantes. 



Livr. 150-165. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kingsley, J. S. Synopsis of the N. A. species of the genus Alpheus. 



Notes on the N. A. Caridea in the Museum of the Peabody Academy of 



Sciences. 1878. 

 Decapod Crustacea of the Atlantic coast, whose range embraces Fort 



Macon. 

 North American Crustacea belonging to the sub-order Caridea. 

 Development of Moina. 

 Geographical distribution of Crustacea. The Author. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 435 



Kingston, G. T. Report of the Meteorological Office of the Dominion of 



Canada, 1879. Thp Superintendent. 

 Kjerulf, Th. Die Geologie des sudlicheu and mittleren Norwegen. 1880. 



The Author. 

 Klaproth, M. II. Analytical Essays. 2 vols , 8vo. 1801. Dr. I. M. Hays. 

 Klein, E. andE. Noble Stnith. Atlas of histology, Pts. 0-12. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Klunzinger, C. B. Die Korallthiere des Rothen Meeres. 3er Th. 1. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Kneass, S. H. Coal mines of the Lykens Valley Coal Company. 1844. Dr. I. 



M. Hays. 

 Kobelt, W. lUustrirtes Conchylienbuch. 8e & 9e Lief. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Koch, A. Description of the Missourium, 1841. Dr. I. Minis Hays. 

 Kcilliker, Alb. Grundriss der Entwicklungs-Geschicbte des Menschen und 



der hiiheren Thiere. 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kokscharow's Materialen zur Mineralogie Russland. Bd. VIII, sigs. 5-9. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kossmann, R. Zoologische Ergebniss einer im Auft.rage der K. Acad, der 



Wissen. zu Berlin ausgefiihrten Reise in die Kiistengebiet^ des rothen 



Meeres. 2e Hiilfte, le Lief. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kiichenmeister, H. Die Parasiten des Menschen. 2e Aufl. 1 & 2 Lief. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kuntz, 0. Speciesbeschreibung und Rubus, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Liedy, Jos. Fresh-water Rhizopods of North America, 1819. Department of 



the Interior. 

 Lente, F. D. Higher education of medical men. The Author. 

 Leuckart, R. Die Parasiten des Menschen und die von ihnen herriihrenden 



Krankheiten. ler Bd., 1 Lief. 2e Auflage, 1879. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Lewis, H. C. The Trenton gravel and its relation to the antiquity of man. 

 The optical characters of some Micas. 

 On Siderof.hyllite. 

 On Philadelphite. 

 On a fucoidal plant from the Trias. 

 The surface geology of Philadelphia and vicinity. 



The iron ores and lignite of the Montgomery County Valley. The Author. 

 Librarian of Congress, annual report, 1879. The Author. 

 Library Co. of Phila., Bulletin, n. s. No. 5. The Library Co. 

 Lieberkiihn, N. KeimbUltter der Saugethiere, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Light-House Board, annual report, 1879. Treasury Department. 

 Lindsay, W. L. Mind in the lower animals. 2 vols. I-.V. Williamson Fund. 

 Linnarsson, G. Om Faunan i Lagr^n med Paradoxides Olandicus. Geological 



Survey of Sweden. 

 Lippincott, J. S. The critics of evolution. The Author. 



List of vertebrated animals now or lately living in the Gardens of the Zoologi- 

 cal Society of London. 1st Supplement. The Society. 

 Lockington, W. N. Notes on Pacific coast Crustacea, 1878. The Author. 

 Loewe, L. Nervensystem der Siiugethiere und des Menschen, 1880. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Lyman, Benj. Smith. Geological Survey of Japan. Report of progress for 



1878 and 1879. Tookei, 1879. The Survey. 

 McLachlan, R. Monographic revision and synopsis of the Trichoptera of the 



European fauna. Pt. 9. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 MacLean, J. P. Mound-builders, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Malaise, C. Description des gites fossiliferes Devoniens et d'affleurement du 



terrain Cretace. Belgian Geological Survey. 

 Mallery, Garrick. Sign language among the North American Indians, 1880. 

 Introduction to the study of sign language among the North American 



Indians. Smithsonian Institution. 




436 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Mallet, J. W. La Barcenite, 1878. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 



Marten, E. vod. Conchologische Mittheilungen. 1 Bd., 1-4 H. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Martin, E. Histoire des monstres. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Martin, E. Die Tertiiirtchichten auf Java. Palteontol. Th. 2-4 Lief. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Martindale, I. C. Notes on the Bartram Oak. The Author. 

 Martini & Chemnitz. Systematisches Conchy lien-Cabinet. Lief. 284-296. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Marsh, 0. C. New Jurassic reptiles. The Author. 

 Maryland, report on new map of, 1836. Dr. 1. M. Hays. 

 Mason. John J. Microscopic studies on the central nervous system of reptiles 



and batrachians. 1 and 2. The Author. 

 Matteucci, C. Le90ns sur les pbenomenes physiques des corps vivants. Ed. 



Francaise. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Meehan, Tho3. Native flowers and ferns of the United States. 2d Ser., Pts. 



1-24. 1879. The Publishers. 

 Meigs, J. A., death-mask of. C. W. De Lannoy. 



Mencke, M, Beitrllge zur Biologic der Spaltpilze. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mendell, G. H. Blasting operations at Lime Point, Cal., in 1868 and 1869. 



Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 Mercantile Library Association of the City of New York, .59th annual report. 



The Directors. 

 Mercantile Library Association of San Francisco, 27th annual report. The 



Trustees. 

 Mexican antiquities, 61 photographs of. (Poinsett Collection.) Wm. S. Beebe. 

 Milne-Edwards, M. Melanges Carcinologiques. Text and plates. Dr. Jos. 



Leidy. 

 Leyons sur la physiologic et I'anatomie comparee de Uhomme et des ani- 



maux. T. 14me, Ire Pt. Wilson Fund. 

 Mines Commission Report, 1880, Annapolis. Tha Commissioner. 

 Minks, A. Das Microgonidium, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mission Scientifique au Mexique. Recherches Zool. 7me, Partie T. 2. 1880. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Moleschott, Jac. Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der 



Thiere. XIII Band, ;! & 4 H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 MoUer, V. v. Die Foraminiferen des russischen Kohlenkalks. The Author. 

 Mongredien, Aug. Free trade and English commerce. 4th ed. 



The western farmer of America, The Cobden Club. 

 Morse, Edw. S, Ancient and modern moUuscan fauna of Omori, Japan. The 



Author. 

 Mueller, F. de. Index perfectus ad Caroli Linntei Species Plantarum. 1880. 



The Author. 

 Miiller, N. J. C. Handbuch der Botanik. ler Bd., lerTh. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Museum Ludwig Salvator in Ober-Blasewitz bei Dresden. The Author. 

 Nagle, J. T. Summary of births, mai-riages, still-births, deaths, etc., in New 



York City. 1878. The Author. 

 Native Tribes of South Australia. 1879. R. Schomburgh. 

 Netoliczka, E Untersuchungen iiber Farbenblindheii und Kurzsichtigkeit. 



2 Nos. 1879. The Author. 

 New York, geological reports, 18^7, 2d Ed. 1840, 1841 & 1851. Dr. I. M. 



Hays. 

 Oiseaux dans la nature. Livr. 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 O'Neill, T. Warren. The refutation of Darwinism, 1880. The Author. 

 Orr's Circle ot the sciences, Nos. 1 & 2. 1854. Dr. I. M. Hays. 

 Packard, A. S., Jr, Zoology. 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Palasontographica. 26er Bd., 3. Lief., 27er Bd., 1. Lief. & Supplement III, 



3., 8. & 9. Lief., H. 4. Wilson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 437 



Palsontologie Fran^aise, Ire Ser. An. Invert. Ter. Jurassique Livr. 42 and 45, 

 2e Ser. Vegetaux. Ter. Jur. Livr. 29. Wilson Fund. 



Palasontological Society's Publications, Vol. 34. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Pasteur, L. Studies on fermeatation, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Paulucci, M. Excursione scientifica nella Calabria, 1877-78. Fauna Mala- 

 cologica. L V. Williamson Fund. 



Peabody Academy of Science, Salem, Mass. Visitors' Catalogue of the Mus- 

 eum. 1879. The Society. 



Pennsylvania, Geological reports, 1833 and 1836. Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Pfeiffer, L. Nomenclator Heliceorum viventium. 5. & 6. Lief. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Physical Science, Agriculture, etc. 81 pamphlets on. Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Pickering, Cbas. Vocabulary of the Soahili language. Mrs. Chas. Pickering. 



Porter, J. Topographical description of Plainfield, 1834. Dr. L M. Hays. 



Prazmowski, A. Entwickelungsgeschichte und Fermentwirkung einiger Bac- 

 terien-.Arten. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Public Ledger Almanac. 1880. The Publisher. 



Public Library, Milwaukee, 2d annual report. The Trustees. 



Putnam, J. D. Biological and other notes on the Coccidaj, 1880. Jhe Author. 



Quaritch, B. Letter to General Starring, Jan. 14, 1880. The Author. 



Rand, B. H. Two lectures on impure air and ventilation. The Author. 



Ratzel, Fr. Die Vereinigten Staaten von Nord-Amerika. 2er Band. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Report of Commissioners appointed under resolve of 1856, Chap. 58, concern- 

 ing the artificial propagation of fish. Boston, 1857. Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Reyer, E. Vier Ausfluge in die Eruptiomassen bei Christiania. 

 Zinn in Birma, Siam & Malakka. 

 Zinn in Australien und Tasmanien. The Author. 



Riviere, E. Grotte de Saint-Benoit. 1878. 



Le pliocene de Castel d' Appio en Italic, 1879. 



De quelques hyperostoses de poisons trouvees dans les grottes ijuarter- 



naires de Menton en Italie. 

 Note sur des instruments en obsidieune trouves en Grece, 1879. The 

 Author. 



Robert, P. Les oiseaux dans la nature. Livr. 2-10. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Roberts, E. P. Directions for sowing, transplmting and raising the Mulberry 

 Tree, 1839. Dr. I. M. Hays 



Roemer, F. Lethnea geognostica. I. Th. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Rossmiissler's Icjnographie der EuropUischen Land- und Siisswasser-Mollus- 

 ken. VII, 1-3. Wilson Fund. 



Rothi'ock, J. T. Catalogue of trees and shrubs in the horticultural gardens 

 adjacent to Horticultural Hall, Fairmount. 1880. The Author. 



Roucher-Deratte, C. Le9ons physiologic© meteorologiques sur les constitutions 

 des saisons. 1804 Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Russ, Dr. K. Die fremdlilndischen Stubenvogel. Ill, 7-9. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Rutherford, J. Coal-fields of Nova Scotia. Department of Mines, Nova Scotia. 



Ryder, J. A. Ichthydium ocellatum, 1880. 



On the occurrence of Freia producta, Wi-ight, in the Chesapeake Bay, etc. 

 The Author. 



Sadler, John. Report on temperature during the winter of 1878-79 at the 

 Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh. The Author. 



Saint-Lager, Dr. Reforme de la nomenclature botanique. The Author. 



St. Louis Mercantile Library Association, annual report, 1879. The Directors. 



Saunder, W. Tea-culture as a probable American industry. 1879. Depart- 

 ment of Agriculture. 



Saussure, H. de. La Grotte du See. The Author. 



Scheftler, H. Die Naturgesetze. 3ter Th, 6te, 7te und 8te Lief. The Author. 




438 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Schimper, W. P., and K. A. Zittel. Handbuch der Palseontologie. 1. Bd., 3te 



und 4te Lief. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schlegel, H. Museum d'histoire naturelle des Pftys-Bas. T. 8, Monog. 41. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Schmidt, Emil. Kraniologische Untersuchungen. 



Mittheilungeu aus dei'anthropologischen Literatur Amerikas. The Author. 

 Schmidt, 0. Die Spongien des Meerbusen von Mexico. 2tes (Schluss-) Heft. 



1880. Museum of Comparative Anatomy. 

 Schomburgh, R. On the naturalized weeds and other plants of South Australia. 

 On the Urari. 



Catalogue of the plants under cultivation in the Government Botanic Gar- 

 den, Adelaide, South Australia. 

 Report on the progress and condition of the Botanic Garden and govern- 

 ment plantations during the year 1879. The Author. 

 Scott, W. B., and H. F. Osborn. Early development of the common newt. 



The Authors. 

 Scudder, S. H., Writings of, compiled by George Dimmock. 1879. The Editor. 



The Devonian Insects of New Brunswick. The Author. 

 Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania. C-', 2 vols., G-, G^ H*, P, 0^, P^, 

 Q2, Q', R, T, "V2. The Commission. 

 Same. Report P. .Jos. M. Gazzam. 

 Seemann, B. Flora Vitiensis. 4to. 1865-73. L V. Williamson Fund. 

 Semper, C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. 3ter Th., eter Bd., 5 H. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Sheafer, P. W. Anthracite coal-fields of Pennsylvania and their exhaustion. 

 Diagram of the progress of the anthracite coal trade of Pennsylvania. 

 The Author. 

 Short, J. T. North Americans of antiquity. 1880. L V. Williamson Fund. 

 Sigsbee, C. D. U. S. Coast Survey. Deep-sea sounding and dredging. 1880. 



C. P. Patterson. 

 Smith, F. Description of new species of Hymenoptera in the British Museum. 



1879. Trustees of the Museum. 

 Smith, J. A Mutations of the earth, 1846. Dr. I. M. Hays. 

 Smith, .J. L. Minerals and mineral waters of Chili. Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Progress and condition of several departments of industrial chemistry. 

 Paris Univ. Exp., 1867. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Smithson, .Tames, Scientific writings of. 1879. 

 Smithsonian Institution and National Museum, visitor's guide. 

 Smithsonian Institution Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. 16 and 17. Contribu- 

 tions to Knowledge, Vol. 22. 

 Report, 1878. 



Journal of Board of Regents, etc. The Institution 

 Smyth, R. B. The aborigines ot Victoria. The Government of Victoria. 

 Snellen van Vollenhoven, S. C. Pinacographia. Pt. 9. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Soret, L. Rapport du President de la Societe de physique et d'histoire 



naturelle de Geneve, 1879. The Author. 

 South African Museum, report, 1879. The Trustees. 

 Spencer. H. Ceremonial institutions. 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Stearns, R. E. C. New species or variety of land snail from California. The 



Author. 

 Steenstrup, J. Sepiella, Gray. 



De Ommatostrephagtige Blieksprutters indbyrdes Forhold. The Author. 

 Steiner, L. H. Annual address before the American Academy of Medicine at 



New York, Sept 16, 1879. The Author. 

 Stille, A., M. I). Humboldt's life and character, 1859. Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Memoir of Isaac Hays. The Author. 

 Stone, 0. Extra-meridian determination of time. The Author. 

 Strebel, H. Fauna mexikanischer Land- und Susswasser-Conchylien. Th. 4. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 439 



Strecker, H. Butterflies and moths, 1879. The Author. 



Strobel, P. Material! per una malacostatica di terra e d'acqua dolci. 



Disp. 1-4. • 



Struckmann, C. Die Wealden-Bildungen der Umge^end von Hannover, 1880. 



The Author. 

 Sveriges Geologiska Undersiikning. Ser. A A, Nos. 68, 69, 71 and 72 ; A B 4 



and 5 : € 8vo, 31, 32, 34 and 35 ; C 4to, 29 and 33. The Survey. 

 Taplin. Rev. G. Folklore, manners, customs and languages of the south 



Australian aborigine-e, 1879. R. Sehomburgh. , 

 Tapparone-Canefri, C. Museum rauluccianum. Etudes malacologiques. 



The Author. 

 Taramelli, T. Catalogo ragionato delle Rocce del Fruili. 

 Sulla formazione serpentinosa dell' Apennino Pavese. 

 Monograiica stratigrafia e paleontologica del Lias nelle Provincie Venete. 



The Author. 

 Tate, R. Zoologica et , Plaeontologica Miscellanea, chiefly relating to South 



Australia. 

 The natural history of the country around the head of the great Austra- 

 lian Bight. 

 The Adelaide Philosophical Society. Anniversary address of the Presi- 

 dent. The Author. 

 Taylor, R. C. Coal regions in the environs of Blossburg, 1833. Dr. I. M. 



Hays. 

 Taylor, W. B. A memoir of .Joseph Henry, 2d Ed. Smithsonian Inst. 

 Thomas, C. H., M. D. Researches on hearing through the medium of the 



teeth and cranial bones. The Author. 

 Traill, G. W. The Alga> of the Firth of Forth. The Author. 

 Trautwine, .J. C. Internal improvement system of the South, 1889. Dr. I. 



M. Hays. 

 Tryon, G. W. Jr. Manual of Conchology, Pts. 5-8. The Author. 

 TurnbuU, C. S. Audiphone and Dentaphone. The Author. 

 United States Coast and Geodetric Survey. Pacific Coast Pilot. Coasts and 



islands of Alaska. 2d Series, 1879. C. P. Patterson. 

 United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Part V, Report of the Com- 

 mission for 1877. The Commission. 

 United States Entomological Commission. Bulletin Nos. 3, 4 and 5. Depart- 

 ment of the Interior. 

 United States Geographical Survey west of the 100th meridian. Reports, 



Vols. 2, 3, 4 and 5. Engineer Department, U. S. A 

 United States Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories. 11th 



annual report. Bulletin, Vol. V, No. 3. Department of the Interior. 

 United States National Museum. Bulletin Nos. 13 and 17. Department of 



the Interior. 

 University of Minnesota, report of the Regents of, 1872. The Regents. 

 Vacek, Mich. Vorarlberger Kreide, 1879. The Author. 

 Van Beneden and Gervais, MM. Osteographie des Cetaces vivants et fossiles. 



Text and atlas. Lief. 17 and 18. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Van der Berg, L. W. C. Verslag van eene Verzamelung Maleische, Arabische, 



.Javaansche en andere Handschriftendoorde Regeering van Nederlandsch 



Indie. Batavian Academy of Sciences, 

 Vanuxem, L. Experiments on anthracite, plumbago, etc., 1825. Dr. I. M. 



Hays. , 

 V^lain, Ch. Etude microscopique des verres resultant de la fusion des 



cendres de graminees. 

 Mission de 1' He de Saint Paul. Recherches geologiques. 4to Paris, 



1879. The Author. 

 Victoria. Reports of the Mining Surveyors, 31st December, 1878, 31st March, 



1879. 

 Mineral Statistics of, 1878. 




440 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Report of Inspector of Vines, 1878. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Vogdes, A. W. Monograph of the genera Zethus, Cybele, Encrinurus and 



Cryptonymus. The Author. t 



Wagner, Wm. Five new fossils of the older pliocene formation of Maryland 



and North Carolina'. The Author. 

 Waterhouse, Owen. Illustrations of the typical specimens of Coleoptera in 



the collection of the British Museum. Pt. I, Lycidae. The British 



Museum. 

 Watson, R, Chemical Essays. 7th Ed. 5 vols., 1800. Dr. I. M. Hays. 

 Watson, R. B. Mollusca of H. M. S. "Challenger" Expedition. Pt. 5. The 



Author. 

 Watson, S. Geological Survey of California. Botany, Vol. 2. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Weismann, Aug. Uber die letzten Ursachen der Transmutationem, 1876. 



Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Wex, G. V. Improvement of the Danube at Vienna, 1880. 



Second treatise on the decrease of water in springs, creeks and rivers, 



1880. Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 White, C. A. Paleontological Field work for the session of 1877. 

 Cretaceous fossils of the Western States and Territories. 

 Note on the occurrence of Productus giganteus in California. 

 New invertebrate fossils from the Mesozoic and Cenozoic rocks of Ar- 

 kansas, Wyoming, Colorado and Utah. 

 Description of a very large fossil gasteropod from the State of Puebla, 



Mexico. 

 Contributions to paleontology, Nos. 2-3. The Author. 

 White, F. E. Valedictory Address, Woman's Medical College, 1880-81. The 



Author. 

 Wbiteaves, J. F. On some marine invertebrata of Queen Charlotte Island. 



The Author. 

 Whitfield, R. P. Fossil crustaceans from the Upper Devonian rocks of Ohio. 



The Author. 

 Whitney, J. D. The Geological Survey of California. An address delivered 



before the Legislature of California. 

 Lecture on geology delivered before the Legislature of California, Feb. 



28, 1862. Dr. .Jos. Leidy. 

 Wilhelm, K. Siebriihrenapparates dicotyler Pflanzen. I V. Williamson Fund. 

 Wilkes, Chas. Western America, 1840. Dr. I. M. Hays. 

 Wilson, T. B., engraved portrait of. Rathmel Wilson. 

 Winchell, A. Preadamites, 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Witter, F. M., Catalogue of Iowa mollusca in the collection of. The Author. 

 Wood, H. C. and H. F. Formad. Research on the effects of inoculating the 



lower animals with diphtheritic exudation. Dr. Wood. 

 Woodward's Gardens, illustrated guide to. 1880. The Author. 

 WooUs, W. Plants indigenous in the neighborhood of Sydney. The Author. 

 Yale College, Catalogue, 1880. 



Obituary records of graduates, 1880 and supplement. 

 Yale College in 1880. The Librarian. 

 Yarrow, H. C. Mortuary Customs among the North American Indians. The 



Author. 

 Young Men's Mercantile Library Association of Cincinnati. 45th annual 



report, 1880. The Association. 

 Zeiler, R. Explication de la Carte geologique de la France. Tome 4me, 2e 



Parte. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Zesch, F. and 0. Reinecke. Coleoptera of Butfalo. The Author. 

 Zoological record, Vol. 15, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zoological Society of London, list of vertebrated animals, 7th Ed., 1879. 



Catalogue of Library. The Society. 

 Zuckerkandl, E. Morphologie des Gesichtsschiidels. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 441 



JOURN'ALS AND PERIODICALS. 



Adelaide. Philosophical Society. Transactions, 1878-79. The Society. 



Amsterdam, K. Akademie van Wettenschappen. Verslagen en Mededeelingen. 

 Afd. Letterkunde. 2e Reeks, 8 Deel. ; Afd. Natuurknnde, 2e Reeks, 14 

 Deel. Jaahrboek, 1878. Trocessen-Verbaal, Afd. Nat. Mei, 1878-Apr. 



1879. Verhandlingcii, Deel 19. Alf. Nat. Deel 12. The Society. 

 Angers. Societo Nationale d' Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. Memoires, T. 19 



and 20. The Society. 

 Atco Science Advocate, Vol. I, No. 1. The Editor. 

 Augsburg. Naturhistorische Verein, 25er Berichte. The Society. 

 Baltimore. American Chemical .Journal. Vol. 1, No. 1. The Editor. 



American Journal of :Mathematics, Vol. 2, Nos. 3 and 4 : Vol. o. No. 1. 



The Editor. 

 .Johus Hopkins University. Studies from the Biological Laboratory, Nos. 



1, 2 and 4. Report of the Sd year. The University. 

 Peabody Institute, 12th and 13th annual reports. The Trustees. 

 Batavia. Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen Tijdschrift, Deel 23, 

 Afl. 5 and 6 ; Deel 24, Afl. 1, 2. 3 and 6 : Deel 25, Afl. 1 and 2 ; Notulen, 

 Deel 14, Nos. 2, 3 and 4; Deel 15, Nos. 2, 3,4; Deel 16, Nos. 1-4. 

 Gedenkboek, 1778-1878. The Society. 

 Natuurkundig Vereen in Nederlandsch Indie. Tijdschrift, Zevende Serie, 

 Deel 8. The Society. 

 Belfast. Naturalists' Field Club, annual report, Vol. 1, Pts. "> and 6. The 

 Society. 

 Natural History and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Sessions 1878- 

 79, 1879-80. The Society. 

 Berlin. Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, 44er .Jahrg., 5 H. ; 45er .Jahrg., 4 and 5 

 H. ; 46er Jahrg., 1, 2 and 3 H. The Editor. ■ , 



Deutsche Geologische Gesel'.schaft. Zeitschrift, 31 Bd., 2-4 H. ; 32 Bd., 



1 H. The Society. 

 Entomologische Verein. Zeitschrift, 23er Jahrg., 2 H.; 24 Jahrg., 1 H. The 



Society. 

 Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde. Sitzungs-Berichte, 1879. The 



Society. 

 K. Preussischen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Monatsbericht, 1879, Juli- 



1880, Juli. The Society. 



Der N iturforscher, 12 Jahrg., No. 27-13 Jahrg., No. 13. The Editor. 



Naturae Novitates, 1879, No. 19-1880, No. 8. The Editor. 



Verein zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues. Monatschrift, 22 Jahrg., Jan.- 



Dec. The Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir die gesammten Naturwissenschaften, 3d Folge, 3 Bd., No. 

 4. The Editor. 

 Bern. Naturforscheude Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, Nos. 937-978. The 



Society. 

 Besan9on. Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts, 187(3-78. The 



Society. 

 Beziers. Societe dEtude des Sciences Na*urelles. Bulletin. Ann(-es 1, 2 and 



3, Fasc. 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Bonn. Archiv fiir Mikroskopische Anatomie, 17er Bd., 3 H-l8er Bd., 4 H. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturhistorische Verein. Verhandlungen, 35er Jahrg., 2e and 36 Jahrg., 

 le Halfte. The Society. 

 Bordeaux. Socic^te Linneenne. Actes, T. 33, Livr. 3, 4 and G. The Society. 

 Societe des Sciences physiques et naturelles. Momoires, 2e Ser., T. 3, 3e 

 Cah., and T. 4, le Cah. The Society. 




442 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Boston. American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Proceedings. Vol. 16, Pts. 

 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Society of Natural History. Proceedings, Vol. 20, Pt. 3, and pp. 273-384. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologie, 12. Bd., 2-4 Viertelj. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Verein fiir Naturwissenschaft.. Jahresbericht, 1879-80. The Society. 

 Bremen. Natnrwissenschaftliche Verein. Abhandhingen, 6. Bd., 2tes und 



Schluss H., Beilage No. 7. The Society. 

 Brooklyn. Entomological Society. Bulletin, Vol. 2, Nos. 4-12. The Society. 

 Brunn. Naturforschende Verein. Verhandlungen, 17. The Society. 

 Bruxelles. Societi'- Beige de Microscopic. Proces Verbaux, 1879, Nov. 27 — , 

 1880, No. 12. Annales T. 4. The Society. 

 Soci^te Entomologique. Compte Rendu, Ser. 2, No. 60-72. Annales T. 22. 



The Society, 

 Soeiete Malacologique. Annales, T. 9me, 2e Fasc. Proces Verbaux, T. 

 8, 4 Oct 1879-7 Fev. 1880. The Society. 

 Buda-Pest. M. Tudom. Akademia. Ertekezesek amath. Tudomanyok Korebol, 

 7 Kotet, 1 Szam^l Kotet, 19. Math, es Termeszet. Kozlemenyek, 14 

 and 15 Kotet. Evkonyvei, Tizenhatodik Kiitet, 11 Uai-ab. The Society. 

 Ungarische National-Museum. Termeszetrajze Fuzetek, 4 Kcitet, 3. The 

 Museum. 

 Buffalo. North American Entomologist, Vol. 1, Nos. 6-12. The Editor. 

 Caen. Academic Nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Letters. Memoires, 

 1879 The Society. 

 Societe Linneenne de Normandie. Bulletin, 3e Ser., Vols. 1 and 2. The 

 Society. 

 Calcutta. Asiatic Society of Bengal. Journal, Vol. 47, Pt. 1, No. 4; Pt. 2, 

 No. 4: Vol. 48, Pt. 1, Nos. 1-4; Pt. 2, No. 1; Vol. 49, Pt. 1, No. 3. 

 Proceedings, 1879. Nos.' 2-10. The Society. 

 Same. .Journal, Vol. 48, Nos. 128-130. Proceedings, 1879, Nos. 5-10. 



Isaac Lea. 

 Stray Feathers, Vol. 8. Nos. 2-6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Cambridge. Appalachian Mountain Club. Appalachia, Vol. 1 and Vol. 2, Nos. 

 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Bussey Institution. Bulletin, Nos. 2-4, and Vol. 2, Nos. 1, 2 and 3. The 



Institution. 

 Harvard University. Library Bulletin, Nos. 14, 15 and 16. Bibliograph- 

 ical Contributions, Nos. 1 and 2. The Trustees. 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology. Memoirs, Vol. 6, No. 1 : Vol. 7, No. 1 

 and No. 2, Pt. 1. Reports, 1878-79; 1879-80. Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 

 16 and title; Vol. 6, Nos. 1-11 ; Vol. 7, No. 1. The Director. 

 Nuttall Ornithological Club. Bulletin. 1880, .Jan.-Oct. The Society. 

 Peabody Museum of American Archaeology and Ethnology. 12th and loth 



annual reports. 'The Director. 

 Psyche, Nos. 65-76. The Editor. 

 Cap Rouge. Le Naturaliste Canadien, Dec. 1879-Oct. 1880. The Editor. 

 Cassel. Malakozoologische Blatter, Neue Folge, 2. Bd., 1. Bg.-3. Bd., 2. Bg. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Verein fiir Naturkunde. Bericht 26 und 27. The Society. 

 Cherbourg. Societe Nationale des Sciences Naturelles. Memoires, T. 21 and 



Catalogue of Library. The Society. 

 Chicago. American Antiquarian, Vol. 2, No. 3-Vol, 3, No. 1. The Editor. 

 Central Fishcultural Society. Proceedings, 1st An. Meeting. The 



Society. 

 Oriental and Biblical Journal, Vol. 1, No. 2. The Editor. 

 Christiana. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab. 4 Bd., 3 H.-5 Bd., 3 

 H. The Editor. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 443 



Cincinnati. Society of Natural History. .Journal, Vol. 2, No. 2-Vol. o. No. 3. 



The Society. 

 Copenhagen. Videnskabelige Medclelelser, 1877-78 ; ]87r'-80, 1 & 2. 



Naturhistorisk Tiddskiift, Schiodte, 12 Bd., 1 H.. .also 1st Ser.. Vols. 1-4; 

 2d Ser., Vo'. 1. Nos. 4 and G, and Vol. 2; 3d Ser., Vol. 4-11 ^ I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 

 Societc Royale des Antiquaries du Nord. Memoires, n. s. 1878-79. Til- 



laeg, 1877, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab. Oversigt. 1879, No. 3. 1880, No. 1. Skrif- 

 ter, .5te Raekke, Vol. 9 No. f. Vol. 11 No. C. The Soc'ety. 

 Cordoba. Academia Nacional de Ciencias Exactas. T. ?>, Ent. 1 & 2. Boletin 



T. 2, Ent. 4 : T. 3, Ent. 1. The Society. 

 Crawfordsville. Botanical Gazette, Vol. 5, No.s. 2-11. The Editor. 

 Danzig. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Schriften. Neue Folge, 4. Bd., 4. H. 



The Society. 

 Darmstadt. Verein fiir Erdkunde. Notizblatt. ?>. Folge, 18. H. The Society. 

 Davenport. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, Vol. 2, It. 2 : Vol. 



3, Pt. 1. The Society. 

 Dijon. Academie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettrrs. Annee, 1878-79. The 



Society. 

 Dorpat. Naturforscher Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, 4er Bd., 2. H. Ar- 

 chiv fiir die Naturkunde Liv-Ehst- und Kurbinds, 1. Ser.. Bd. 8, No. 4. 

 The Society. 

 Dresden. K. Leop. -Carol. -Deutschen Akademie der Naturforscher. Nova 

 Acta, Vol's 39 and 40. Leopoldino, H. 12-15. The Society. 

 Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis. 1879 Jan. — Dec. The Society. 

 Verein fiir Erdkunde. Jahresbericht 16er. The Society. 

 Dublin. Royiil Dublin Society. Proceedings, n. s. I, 1-3 ; II. l-(j. Trans- 

 actions, n. s. Vol. 1, Nos. 1-12; Vol. 2, Nos. 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Royal Geological Society of Ireland. .Journal, Vol. 15, No. 2. The 

 Society. 

 Easton. American Institute of Mining Engineers. Transactions, Vol. 7. 

 Edinburgh. Botanical Society. Transactions and Proceedings, Vol. 13, Pt. 3. 

 The Society. 

 Geological Society. Transactions, Vol. 3, Pt. 2. The Society. 

 Royal Society. Proceedings, Vol. 10, No. 103. Transactions, Vol. 28, Pt. 



2, and Vol. 29. Pt. 1. The Society. 

 Scottish Naturalist, Nos. 37-40. The Editor. 

 Emden. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Jahresbericht 64er. Kleine Schriften, 



18. The Society. 

 Erlangen. Physikaliscb-medizinische Societtit. Sitzungsberichte, 11 H. 



The Society. 

 Frankfurt a. M. Aerztliche Verein. Jahresbericht 22er. The Society. 



Deutsche Malakozoologische Gesellschaft. Nachrichtsblatt, 1880, No. 1. 



The Society. 

 Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Abhandlungen 11. Bd., 



4 H. Bericht, 1878-79. The Society. 

 Der Zoologische Garten, 20 Jahrg. 7-12. The Zoological Society of Frank- 

 ford. 

 Freiburg, i. B. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Berichte, Bd. 7, H. 4. The 



Society. 

 Gand. Archives de Biologic, Van Beneden and Van Bambeke, T. 1, Fasc. 



1-3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geneva. Schweizerische pallloctologische Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen Vol. 

 6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle. Memoires, Vol. 26, No. 2. 

 The Society . 

 Genoa. Societa di Letture e Conversazioni Scientifiche. Giornale, Anno 3, No. 

 10— Anno 4, No. 4. The Society. 




444 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Giessen. Oberhessische Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und Heilkunde, ISerBericht. 



The Society. 

 Glasgow. Philosophical Society. Proceedings Vol. 11, No. 2. The Society. 

 Gottingen. K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Nachrichten, 187U. The 



Society. 

 Guadalajara. Sociedad de Ingenieros de .Jalisco. Boletin T. 1, No. 1. The 



Society, 

 Hamburg. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Abhandlungen 7 Bd. 1 Abth. 



The Society. 

 Harlem. Hollandische Maatischappij der Wetenschappen. Natuurkundige 

 Verhandelingen, Deel 4, 1 Stuk. The Society. 

 Musee Teyler. Archives Vol. 5, Pt. 2. The Director. 

 Socieie Hollandaise des Sciences. Archives, T. 14, 3e Livr. — T. 15, 2e 

 Livr. The Society. 

 Helsingfors. Finska Vetenskaps Societet. Ofversigt, 21. Bidrag, 32. Obser- 

 vationes Meteorologiques, 1877, 1878. Acta, XI. The Society. 

 SilUskapet pro fauna et flora Feiuiica. Ny serie, 2, 3, 4, 6-11 Haftet. 

 Acta I. Meddelanden 1—5. The Society. 

 Hermannstadt. Siebenbiirgischer Verein fiir Naturwissenschaften. Ver- 



handlungen und Mittheilungen. 30 .Jahrg. The Society. 

 Hobart Town. Koyal Society of Tasmania. Papers and Proceedings, 1878. 



The Society. 

 Jena. Medizinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, ]3er Bd. 



3 H.— 14er Bd. 2 H. Sitzungsberichte, 1879. The Society. 

 Kansas City. The Kansas City Review of Science and Industry, Dec. 1879 — 



Nov. 1880. The Editor. 

 Lausanne. Societe Vaudoise des Sciences 'Naturelles. Bulletin, No. 83. The 



Society. 

 Leipzig. Archiv fiir Anatomic und Physiologic. Anatomische Abth. 1879,5 

 H.— 1880, 3 H. Physiologische Abth. 1879 5 H.— 1880, 5 H. Ver- 

 zeichniss, 1834-1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Botanisches Centralblatt, No. 1. I. V. Williamson fund. 

 Botanische .Jahrblicher, Engler. I, 1. 2 & 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Flirstlich .Jablonowski-pche Gesellschaft. Preisschriften No. 2. The 



Society. 

 Jahrblicher fiir wissenschaftliche Botinik. 12er Bd., 1 & 2 H. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Journal fiir Ornithologie. 27 Jahrg. 3 H.— 28 Jahrg. 1 H. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 K. S'achsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen XII, 2, 



3 & 4. Berichte, 1879. The Society. 

 Kosmos, III, 7— IV 8. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Morphologisches Jahrbuch. oer Bd. 3— 6er Bd. 3. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Zeitschrift fiir Krystallographie und Mineralogie, Groth, 2er Bd. 6es H. — 



oer Bd. 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie, 33er Bd. 1 — 35er Bd. 1. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Zoologischer Anzeiger, 2 Jahrg. Nos. 42-68. The Editor. 

 Liege. SociettS Roy<ile des Sciences. Memoires, 2me s. T. 7 and 8. The 



Society. 

 Lille. Bulletin Scientifique du Department du Nord, Nov. & Dec. 1879. The 

 Editor. 

 Societe des Sciences, de I'Agriculture et des Arts. Memories, 4e ser., T. 

 7 and 8. The Society. 

 Lisbon. Associaciio des Engenheiros Civis Portuguezes. Revista de Obras 



publicas e Minas. T. 10, Nos. 118, 121. The Society. 

 Liverpool. Free Public Library, Museum and Walker Art Gallery, 27th 

 annual report. The Trustees. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 445 



London. Annals and Magazine of Natural History, Dec, 1879 — Nov., 1880. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Astronomical Register, Oct., 1879— Nov., 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 British Association for the Advancement of Science. Report, i'Mi 



meeting. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Curtis' Botanical Magazine, Nos. 1112-ll2c. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Entomological Society. Transactions, 1879. The Society. 

 Gardner's Chronicle, Nos. 307-359. The Editor. 



Geological Magazine, Oct., 1879— Nov.. 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geological Society. Quarterly Journal, Nos. 140-143. The Society. 

 Hardwicke's Science Gossip, Oct., 1879— Nov., 1880. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Ibis, Oct., 1879— July, 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, Vol. 12, Pt. 2; Vol. 13, No. 2— 

 • Vol. 14, No. 1. 1. V. Williamsou Fund. 

 Journal of Botany, British and Foreign, Oct.. 1879— Nov., 1880. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Physiology, Michael Foster. Vol. 2, Nos. 8-6. I. V. AVilliam- 



son Fund. 

 Journfll of Science, Oct., 1879— Nov., 1880. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Linnean Society. Journal, Botany, Vol. 16, Nos. 93-102; Zoology, Vol. 

 13, Nos. 72-79. Transactions, 2d Ser., Zoology, Vol. 1, Pts. 5-8; 

 Botany, Vol. 1, Pts. 5 and 6. List, 1877-78. The Society. 

 London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine, Dec, 1879— Nov., 



1880.. I. V. Williamson Eund. 

 Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Mineralogical Maga- 

 zine, Vol. 2, Nos. 15-18. The Society. 

 Nature, Nos. 524-560, 562-566, 568-573, 576, 576. The Editor. 

 Notes and Queries, Nov., 1879— Oct., 1880. The Editor. 

 Popular Science Review, Oct., 1879— Oct., 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Quarterly Journal of MicroscopicalScience, Oct., 1879 — Oct., 1880. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, n. s. Vol. 



12, Nos. 1-3. The Society. 

 Royal Geographical Society. Proceedings, n. s. Vol.2, Nos. 1-8. Journal, 



Vol. 48. I he Society. 

 Royal Institution of Great Britain. Proceedings, Vol. 9, Nos. 1 and 2. 



The Society. 

 Royal Microscopical Society. Journal, Vol. 2, No. 7 — Vol. 3, No. 5. The 



Society. 

 Society of Arts. Journal, Vol. 27. The Society. 

 Triibner's Ainerican and Oriental Literary Record, Nos. 143-154. The 



Publisher. 

 Zoological Societj. Proceedings, 1879, No. 4 — 1880, No. 2. Transactions, 



Vol. 10, No. 13 and Vol. 11, No. 2. The Society. 

 Zoologist. Oct., 1879— "^ov., 18{<0. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 London, Canada. The Canadian Entomologist, Vol. 10, No. 12 — Vol. 12, No. 



10. The Editor. 

 Louvain. Universite Catholique. Annuaire, 44me Annee. Twenty-three 



Thesis. The University. 

 Liibeck. Naturhisloiische Museum. Jahresbericht, 1879. The Society. 

 Luxembourg. Institut Royal. Publications, T. 17. The Society. 

 Lyon. Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Mt-moires' Classe des 

 Sciences, T. 23 ; Classe des Lettres, T. 18me. The Society. 

 Socieie d' Agriculture, Histoire Naturelle et Arts utiles. Annales 4me 



Ser., T.^lOme; one Ser., T. 1. The Society. 

 Societe d'Etudes Scientitiques. Bulletin No. 1, Tomes 4 and 5. The 



Society. 

 Societe Linn6enne. Annales, n. s. T. 23, 24 and 25. The Society. 




446 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Madison. Botanical Gazette, Vol. 5, No. 1. The Editor. 



Madrid. Memorial de Ingenieros y revista cientitico-militar, Ano 33, No. 22 — 



Ano 35, No. 21. The Editors. 

 Marburg. Gesellschaft ziir Bet'iirderung der gesammten Naturwissenschaften. 

 Sitzungsberichte, .Tahrg., 1878-7!>. Schriften, 8vo, Bd. 2, Nos. 4, 5, 6. 

 Schriften, 4to, Bd. 2, Supplementheft, 1-4. The Society. 

 Metz. Academie. Memoires, Annees 77 and 78. The Society. 



Societe d'histoire naturelle. Bulletin, 2e Ser., 5me Cahier, Ire Partie. 

 The Society. 

 Mexico. Ministerio de Fomento. Annales, III, 185 et seci- Minister of Works, 

 Mexico. 

 Museo Nacional. Anales, Vol. 1, No. 7 — Vol. 2, No. 2. The Director. 

 Revista cientifica Mexicana, T. 1, Nos. 1-11. The Editor. 

 Sociedad de Geografia y Estadi<tica de la Republica Mexicana. Boletin, 



T. 4, No. 7— T. 5, No. 3. The Society. 

 Siciedad Mexicana de Historic Natural. La Naturaleza, T. 4, Nos. 16-20. 

 The Society. 

 ]Milan. Accademia fisio-medico-statistica. Atti, 1880. The Society. 



Regio Istituto technico superiore. Programma, 1879-80. The Society. 

 Milwaukee. Naturhistorischer Verein von Wisconsin. Jahresbericht fiir das 



.Jahre, 1879-80. The Society. 

 Montpellier. Academie des Sciences et Lettres. Memoires de la Section des 



Sciences T. 9, 2e Fasc. The Society. 

 Montreal. Annuaire de Ville-Marie, 3me Livr. and 2d Vol., 1 and 2 Livr. 

 and Supplement. L. A. Huguet-Latour. 

 Canadian Naturalist, n. s. Vol. 9, Nos. 4, 5, G. The Editor. 

 Natural History Society. Proceedings, 1869, '70, '71, '73, '7S. Annual 



reports, 5th-9tli ; Constitution and By-Laws. L. A. Huguet-Latour. 

 Numismatic and Antiquarian Society. Canadian Antiquarian, Vol. 9, Nos. 

 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Moscow. Societe Imp^riale des Naturalistes. Bulletin, 1878, Nos. 3 and 4; 



1879, No. 1. Nouveau Memoires, T. 14, Livr. 1. The Society. 

 Munich. Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic, Ethnologic und Urgeschichte. Bei- 

 trage, 3er Bd., Nos. 1-4. The Society. 

 K. Sternwarte. Beobachtungen, 1879. The Director. 

 K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte der math.=phys. 

 Classe 1879, No. 1 — 1880, No. 2. Abhandlungen, historische Classe, 

 14er Bd., oe ,\bth. ; 15er Bd., ler Abth. : philos.-philol. Classe, 14er 

 Bd., 2e Abth. ; 15er Bd., le Abth. ; mathem.-physik. Classe, 13er Bd., 

 2e Abth. 

 Naples. R. Istituto d' Incoraggiamento alle Scienze naturali, economiche e 



technologische. Atti, 2 Ser., T. 16. The Society. 

 Neubrandenburg. Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenburg, 



33 Jahrg. The Society. 

 Neuchatel. Societe des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, T. 11, 3me Cahier. 



The Society. 

 New Berlin. Entomologist's Exchange, Nos. 1-6. J. S. Kingsley. 

 New Haven. American Journal of Science and Arts, Dec, 1879 — Nov., 1880, 

 The Editor. 

 Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. Transactions, Vol. 5, No. 1. 

 The Society. 

 New York. Academy of Sciences. Annals, Vol. 1, Nos. 9-13. The Society. 

 American Bookseller, Vol. 8, No. 11— Vol. 10, No. 1. The Editor. 

 American Chemical Society. Journal, Vol. 1, No. 10 — Vol. 2, No. 7. The 



Society. 

 American Entomologist, Vol. 3, No. 2. The Editor. 



American Geographical Society. Bulletin 1880, No. 1 ; Journal, Vol. 10. 

 The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 441 



American Journal of Microscopy, Vol. 4, No. 2 — Vol. 5, No, 10. The 



Editor. 

 American Monthly Microscopical Journal. Vol. 1, Nos. 1-11. The 



Editor. 

 American Museum of Natural History, 11th Annual Report. The Director. 

 Forest and Stream, Vol. 18, No. 26— Vol. 15. No. 17. The Editor. 

 Index Medicus, Vol. 2, Nos. 1-10. Wm. S. Vaux. 



Library Journal, Vol. 4, No. 11— Vol. 5, No. 10. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Monthly Index to current periodical literature. Vol. 1, No. 5. The Pub- 

 lisher. 

 New Vork Medical Eclectic, Nov. 187'.t— Oct. 1880. The Editor. 

 New York Medical Journal, Dec. 1871t— Nov. 1880. The Editor. 

 Popular Science Monthly, Dec. 1879— Dec. 1880. The Editor. 

 Publishers' Weekly, Vol. 18, Nos. 1-6. The Editor. 

 Science, Vol. 1, Nos 1-22 The Editor. 

 Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. .59— Vol. 7, No. 10. The 



Society. 

 Orleans. Societe d' Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Memoires 



Vol. 21, Nos. 2 & 3. The Society. 

 Paris. Academic des Sciences. Comptes Rendus, Vols. 87, 88 & 89. Me- 



moires, T. 41. The Society. 

 Annales des Mines. T. 14, 5me Livr.-:. — T. 17, 4me Livr. Minister of 



Public Works, France. 

 Annales des Sciences Geologiques, T. 11, Nos. 1 & 2. The Editor. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles, Zoologte et Paleontologie, T. 8, No. 4 — 



T. 9, No. 6; Botanique, T. 8, No. 3— T. 10, No. 1. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Archives de Zoologie experimentale et generale. 1879 & 1880, Nos. 1-3. 

 , I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ecole polytechnique. Journal, T. 28. The Director. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie, T. 19, No. 4— T. 20, No. 3. The Editor. 

 -Museum d'Histoire Naturelle Nouvelles Archives, 2nie Ser., T. 2, Fasc. 



2. The Directors. 

 Revue Internationale des Sciences. 1879, No. 11—1880, No. 8. The 



Editor. 

 Revue Scientifique de la France et de I'Etranger, 9nie Annee No. 20 — 1881 



No. 4. The Editor. 

 Soci^te d'Acclimatation. Bulletin, Sept. 1879— Aout, 1880. The Society. 

 Soci^te des Antiquaires de Picardie. Memoires, 3me Ser., T. 6. The 



Society. 

 Societe Botanique de France. T. 25me, 5, Title, etc. ; T. 26me, 1, 2, 3, 



Rev. Bibl. C. D. E. ; T. 27me, 1 Comptes Rendus, 2 & 3, Rev. Bibl. A. 



The Society. 

 Societe Entomologique de France. Annales, 5me Ser. T. 5 — T. lOme. 



Partie Supplem. The Society. 

 Societe Geologique de France. Bulletin, Vol. 7, Nos. 4-7. The Society. 

 Societe nationale d' Agriculture de France. Bulletin, Annce 1880, Nos. 



5 & 6. The Society. 

 Societe Zoologique. Bulletin, 1879, 1-4. The Society. 

 Philadelphia. Academy of Natur.al Sciences. Proceedings 1879, No. 3 — 1880, 



No. 2. The Publication Committee. 

 Afield and Afloat, n. s. Vol. 1, No. 13. The Editor. 

 American Entomological Society. Transactions, Vol. 7, No. 4— Vol. 8, 



No. 2. Proceedings, May, 1880. The Publication Committee. 

 American Journal of Medical Sciences, Jan. to Oct., 1880. The Editor. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy. Dec. 1879- Nov. 1880. The Editor. 

 American Naturalist. Dec. 1879— Dec. 1880. The Editor. 

 American Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 27th Annual Report. 



The Society. 




448 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



American Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Nos. 103-106. The 



Society. 

 Dental Cosmos, Dec. 1879— Nov. 1880. The Editor. 

 Franklin Institute Journal. Dec. 1879— Nov. 1880. The Society. 

 Gardener's Monthly, Dec. 1879— Nov. 1880. The Editor. 

 Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Magazine, Vol. 3, No. 4 — Vol. 4, 



No. 3. The Society. 

 Medical News and Abstract, Nos. 444-456. The Editor. 

 Naturalist's Leisure Hour. Nov. 1879— Nov. 1880. The Editor. 

 Pennsylvania Museum and School of Industrial Art, 4th Annual Report. 



The Director. 

 Stoddart's Review, Vol. 1, Nos. 1-19. The Editor. 

 Zoological Society. 8th Annual Report. The Society. 

 Pisa. Nuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano, Vol. 12, No. 1-3. The Editor. 



Societa Malacologica Italiana. Bulletin, Vol. 4, No. 21 — Vol. 6, No. 14. 



The Society. 

 Societa Toscana di Scienze Naturale. Process! Verbali, 9 Nov. 1879 — 

 9 Mag. 1880. Memorie, Vol. 4. No. 2. The Society. 

 Poughkeepsie. bociety of Natural Science. Proceedings, Oct. 1, 1878, to 



July 1, 1879. The Society. 

 Providence. Rhode Island Historical SocietJ^ Proceedings 1878-79. The 

 Society. 

 Literary and Historical Society. Session 1879-80. The Society. 

 Regensburg. K. B. Botanische Gesellschaft. Flora, n. r. 37er Jahrg. The 

 Society. 

 Zoologisch-mineralogischer Verein. Correspondenz-Blatt, 33er Jahrg. 

 The Society. 

 Rome. R. Academia dei Lincei. Atti, Serie Terza, Transunti Vol. 4, Fasc. 



1-7. The Society. 

 St. Gallen. Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Bericht 1877-78. The 



Society. 

 St. Louis., Academy of Natural Sciences. Transactions, Vol. 4, No. 1. The 

 Society. 

 Missouri Historical Society, Nos. 1-4. The Society. 

 St. Petersburg. K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Repertorium fiir Meteor- 

 blogie, Bd. 6, H. 2. Mcmoires, T. 26, No. 12— T. 27, No. 4. Bulletin, 

 Vol. 25, No. 3— Vol. 26, No. 1. The Society. 

 Hortus Petropolitanus. Acta, T. 6, Fasc. 2. The Director. 

 Physikalische Central Observatorium. Annalen, 1878, Nos. 1 & 2. The 



Director. 

 Societas Entomologica. Horae, T. 14. The Society. 

 Salem. Essex Institute. Bulletin, Vol. 11, No. 10— Vol. 12, No. 6. The 



Society. 

 Santiago de Chile. Revista Mfdica de Chile. Ano 7, Nos. 1 & 2. The 

 Editor. 

 Universidad de Chile. Anales, 1872, Nos. 1 & 2. The University. 

 Schweizerische naturforschende Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen. Jahresb. 



1877-78, 1878-79. The Society. 

 Springfield. Familiar Science and Fancier's Journal. December, 1880. The 



Editor. 

 Staunton. The Virginias, Nos. 1-10. The Editor. 

 Stettin. Entomologische Verein. Zeitung, Jahrg. 40. The Society. 

 Stockholm. Entomologisk Tidskrift, I. 1 & 2. The Editor. 

 Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologic und Paleontologie. 

 1879, 8 H.— 1880, Bd. 2, H. 1. • The Editor. 

 Verein fiir vaterlandische naiurkunde in Wiirttemberg, 36er Jahr. The 

 Society. 

 Sydney. Royal Society of New South Wales. Journal and Proceedings, Vol. 

 12. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 449 



Tokio. L'aiversity, Science Department. Memoirs, Vol. 1, Pt. 1. The University. 

 Toronto. Entomological Society. Annual Report, 1879. The Society- 

 Toulouse. Acaclemie des Sciences. Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. M^moires, 

 Table des Mat. de la 7me Ser., 8me Ser., T. 1., Nos. 1 and 2 and T. 2. 

 The Society. 

 Revue Mycologique, 2e Annee, Xos. 1 and 2. The Editor. 

 Trieste. Societa Adriatica de Scieuze Naturali. Bollettina, Vol. 5, No. 2. 



The Society. 

 Tromso. Museum. Aarshefter, II. The Museum. 

 Upsal. Observatoire de I'Universite. Bulletin, VIII. The Director. 



Regia Societas Scientiarum. Nova Acta. :]e Ser., Vol. 10, No. 2. The 

 Society. 

 Utrecht. K. nederlaudsch iiieteorologis'ihe lustituut. .Jaarboek, 1879. The 



Editor. 

 Vienna. Anthropologische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, 9 Bd., Nos. 7 and 

 8, 10 Bd., Nos. 1-7. The Society. 

 Embryologische Institute der K. K. Uuiversitat. Mittheilungen, 1 Bd., 4 



II. ; 2 Bd., 1 H. J. V. Williamson Fund. 

 K. Abademie der Wisseuschaften. Sitzungsberichte, Mathem.-naturw. 

 Olasse, 76 Bd. I. 1-5 H., II. 2-5 H., Ill, 1-5 H. ; 77 Bd. I, 1-5 H., II, 

 .1-5 H., III. 1-0 H.; 78 Bd. I, 1-5 H., II, 1-5 H., Ill, 1-5 H. ; 79 Bd. II, 

 1-3 H., Ill, 1-5 H. Denkschriften, mathem.-naturw. Classe, 39er Bd. 

 The Society. 

 K. K. geologischen Reichsanstalt. -lahrbuch, 29er Bd., o and 4, 1880, Nos. 

 1, 2 and 3. Verhandlungen, 1879, No. 10: 1880, No. 11. Abhand- 

 lungen, Bd. 7, H. 5. The Director. 

 K. K. zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, Vol. 29. The 



Society. 

 Oesterreichische Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie. Zeitschrift, 13 Bd. The 



Society. 

 Verein zur Verbreitung naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntnisse. Schriften, 



20er Bd. The Society. 

 Zoologische Institute. Arbeiten, T. 2. H. 2 & 3 ; T. 3, H. 1. .1. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Washington. Philosophical Society. Bulletin, Vols. 1, 2 and 3. The Society. 

 United States National Museum. Proceedings, Vol. 1. Department of 

 the Interior. 

 Wellington. New Zealand Institute. Transactions, Vol. 12. The Society. 

 Worcester. American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, Nos. 74 and 75. 



The Society. 

 Wiirzburg. Botanische Institut. Arbeiten, 2er Bd., 3 H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, Neue Folge, 14 



Bd., 1-4 H. The Society. 

 Zoologische-zootomische Institut. Arbeiten, 5er Bd., 1 H. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Zurich. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Vierteljahrsschrift. 23er .Tahrg., 1-4 

 H. The Society. 



30 





INDEX TO GENERA. 



451 



INDEX TO GENERA, 



1880. 



Abies 333, 341, 350 



Acanthocycles o7 



Acanthodoris 88 



Actteon 366 



Acmoecopleura 188, 204 



Adalaria 75 



Akiodorus 52 



Alee m9 



Ambrosia 343 



Ampelopsis 5 



Amphicarpiea o59 



Amphidesiiia 21, 20 



Anarcbaris 334 



Analcite 252 



Anciliaria 364, 365 



Andromeda 356 



Anomia 21, 24 



Antrozovxs 227 



Aratus 189, 218 



Arctomys 348 



Area 21, 23. 24, 29 



Artemi;^ 21, 23, 24, 25, 29 



Artibeus 393 



Arvicola 348 



Asbolite 243 



Assulina 336, 339 



Astarte 364 



Astrophycus 293 



Astarte 21, 23, 24, 29, 32 



Atalapha 133, 393 



Atta 359 



Betula 343 



Biotite 246 



Bonellia 29 



Brachygrapsus 188, 203 



Branchipus 156 



Buceinum 28 



Bunias 132 



Buthotrephis 293 



Calymene 176 



Cancellaria 29, 365, 369 



Caneer 179 



Canis 348 



Cardita... 21, 24, 364, 365 369 



Carditamera 32 



Cardium 21, 23, 24, 29, 365. 369 



Carex 353 



Cariacus... 895 



Caricella 368, 373 



Carya 348 



Cassidaria 365 



Castanea 35 J 



Castor 848 



Castoroides 317 



Catostomus 237 



Caulolatilus 13, 14 



Centaurea 132 



Centropyxis 338 



Cervus 348 



Chasmagnathus 189, 221 



Chelydra 348 



Chirocephalus 156 



Chromite 273 



Cistudo 348 



Clistocoeloma - 189, 219 



Coilogenys 391, 396 



Tonus 348 



Cookeite 249 



Corbula..21, 23, 24, 25,27, 29, 32, 364 



Cornus 348 



Crassatella 21, 23, 24, 29, 32 



Crepis 132 



Culsageeite 253 



Cyelograpsua 189, 220 



Cyeloloma 132 



Cylicosmilia 864 



Oyonyeteris 393 



Cyperus 132 



Cyrtograpsus 188, 197 



Cytberea,.21, 23, 24, 29, 364, 366, 370 




452 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Calcydoris 89 



Damourite 249, 



Danthonia 



Dasyprocta 386, 392, 



Dekaya 



Dentalium 28, 29, 365, 367, 



Desmodium 



Desmodus 133, 



Diaulula 



Dicotyles 



Didelphys 



Difflugia 335, 



DilocarcinuH 



Dolomite 



Doridunculus 



Doris 



256 

 343 

 396 



13 

 375 

 132 

 393 



40 

 347 

 389 

 338 



35 

 243 



52 



85 



Echinospermum 131 



Echinus 27 



Epigrapsus 188, 192 



Epomophorus 393 



Epsomite 257 



Erethizon 348, 389, 392, 396 



Erinaceus 387 



Eriocheir 189, 210 



Euchirograpsus 188, 202 



Euglypha 336, 338 



Euphyllite 249 



Eustrongy lus 131 



Felis 348 



Fiber 348 



Filaria lO, 130 



Fimbristylus 132 



Fissurella 29 



Flourite 243 



Formica 376 



Fucoides 293 



Fusus 28, 364, 365. 371, 875 



Garnet 241 



Gelasimus 135 



Geograpsus 188, 195 



Gly pt ograpsus 189, 206 



Goniopsis 188, 189 



Gordius 131 



Gorilla 128 



Qrapsodes 188, 197 



Grapsus.. 188, 192 



Heleopera 385, 338 



Helice 189, 219 



Helix 348 



Hemifusus 372 



Hemitripterus 233 



H esperomy s 348 



Heterograpsus ..189, 207 



Hierochloe 344 



H olograpsus 224 



Homalonotus 176 



Hottonia 157 



Houstoiiia 349 



Hy alosph enia 335, 340 



Hydra 156 



Hypnum 333, 343 



Hy pochoeris 1 32 



Infundibiilum 29, 366 



Isocardia 21. 23, 24, 29, 32 



.Jarosit e 33"! 



JefFerisite 253 



.Jorunna 46 



Juglans 848 



Killingia 132 



Lajvibuccinum 364, 371 



Lagostomiis 386, 891 



Lamellidoris , 58 



Lasiony cteris 398 



Lasiurus 183 



Latilus 13 



Leda 21, 23 



Leiolophus 189, 224 



Leda 365 



Lemna 230 



Lepidium 132 



Lepidolite.. ..:... 248 



Lepidomelane 247 



Leptograpsiis 188, 196 



Lepton 21 



Leptonyx 227 



Lepus 348 



Leiicwa 132 



Lignite 281 



Lima 21, 23, 29 



Linguella 59 



Lonchoglossa 393 



Lucina. 21, 23, 24, 29 



Macacus 887 



Macrobiotus 333 



Mactra 21, 24, 27 



Margarite 251 



Marginella 29 



Megaderma 393 




INDEX T(i GENERA. 



453 



Melampusr 27 



Melampyi'um Stj^ 



Meleagris o48 



Mephitis 348 



Mermis 131 



Mesopi thecus 175 



Meta^esarma 18'.t, 211 



Metopo^rapsus 188. 190 



Millerite 243 



JVrodiola 21, 24. 27 



Molo?sus 359, 393 



Molybdenite 243 



Muscovite 242, 247 



Mya 21, 24, 27 



Mytiltis 21, 23, 32 



Kasua 388 



Natica 27. 304,365, 363 



Nautilograpsus 187, 188. 201 



Nebela 3^3, 33G 



Neotoma 347 



Noctilio 393. 394 



Nucula 28 



Nupliar 157 



Nycteris 133 



Ocypoda 179 



Onchidoi-is 59 



Orbiiograpsns 188. 194 



Ostre4 21, 23, 24, 32, 364-366 



Oxalis 350 



Pachygrapsus 188. 198 



Pectuucnlus 22, 24, 29 



Palseophycus 293 



Palio 108 



Panopu-a 21. 24, 25 



Partiila 229 



Pecten 22, 24, 25, 30, 866, 369 



Perigrapsus •. 189, 210 



Periploma 32 



Perna 22, 24, 27, 32 



Petricola .' 22, 24 



Phikdelphite 310, 313 



Phlogophite 244 



Pholadomya 22, 25 



Pholas 22. 24, 25 



Phyllorhina 133, 339 



Phylostoma 392 



Pinus 341 



Pithecolobium 355 



Placocist-i 339 



Plagusia 189, 223 



Platygrapsus 189, 210 



Pleiirotoma..29, 365, 366. 368, 369, 373 



Plicatula 22, 32 



Plumatella 157 



Polycera 105 



Polyergus 376 



Populus 353 



Prochlorife 251 



Procy on 348 



Pseudograpsus 188, 204 



Pseudoliva 365, 371 



Pseudothelphusa 34 



Pteropus 393 



Ptychognatlius 188, 20'^ 



Putorius 348 



Pyropbyllite 248 , 



Pyriila .- 365, 367, 374 



Quercus ; 128, 342 



Randite 274 



Kangifer 347 



Rhaconotus 189, 213 



Rliinopoma 359 



Rhipidolite 251 



Rhododendron 333 



Riccia 230 



Rochelia 131 



Rostellaria 364 



Rotifer 333 



Sancara 



Sarmatium 189, 



Saxicava 22, 25, 



Scalaria 28, 



Scalops 



Sciurus 348, 



Semnopithecus 



Serpentine 241, 248, 



Serpula 



Sesarma 189, 



Siderite 



Siderophyllite 



Si garet us 



Simia 



Solarium '29, 364, 365, 



Solecurtus 



Solen 22, 25, 



I Spiroslomum 



Spongilla 330, 



Steatite 



Stent or 



Sterlingite 



Strepsidura '. .. 



Streptocephalus 



Talc 



Tarn i as. 



.248, 



212 



32 



29 



348 



389 



175 



273 



27 



213 



242 



254 



29 



160 



375 



27 



27 



157 



357 



273 



157 



256 



372 



156 



252 



348 




454 



INDEX TO GENERA, 



Taxodium 9 Variina 187, 188, 205 



Tellina 22, 24 Venericardia 366 



Thelphusa 35 Venus .22,24,25, 29, 32 



Thuja 9 Vermiculite 250 



Tornatella 364, 366 Vespertilio 227, 348 



Trinema 336, 339 Vesperugo 393 



Triopha 108 '. Vesperus 373 



Triticum 132 ': Vitis 10 



Tritonium 369 i Voluta 29, 365 



Trochus 29 Volvox 157 



Turbinella 364, 873 Vorticella 157 



Turritella 29, 365 ! Vulpes 348 



Unio 348 Wistaria 358 



Ursus 349 



Utica 189, 206 Yucca 355 




INDEX. 



455 



GENERAL INDEX. 



AtUlitions to Library, 429. | 



Agnew, Wm. G. E., Announcement of 

 death of, 226. 



Allen, H., Description of a foital 

 Walrus. 38 ; Mammary Glands of 

 Bats, 133; On some homologies in 

 Bunodont Dentition, 226 ; The Pha- 

 langes of Bats, 359 ; On the Tem- 

 poral and Masseter Muscles of 

 Mammals, 385. 



Barbeck, Wm., On the Development of 

 Lemna Minor, 226. 230. 



Bergh, R., On the Nudibranchiate 

 Gasteropod Mollusca of the North 



• Pacific, with special reference to 

 those of Alaska, 9, 40. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 Report of, 415. . 



Botanical Section, Report of, 418. 



Borie, A. E., Announcement of death 

 of, 128. 



Brewer, T. M., .•Vnnouncement of 

 death of, 12. 



Budd, Dr. Chas. H., Announcement of 

 death of, 355. 



Cardeza, .J. M., Fossil (?) Casts in 

 Sandstone, 280; Garnet mistaken 

 for Corundum, 295. 



Chapman, H. C, On the Gestation and 

 Generative Apparatus of the Ele- 

 phant, 184, 158: On the Structure 

 of the Orang Outang, 159, IGO. 



Conchological Section, Report of, 414. 



Cresson, Ezra T., Election to Council, 

 357. 



Elections during 1880, 428. 



Entomological Section, Report of, 421. 



Fisher, Jas. C, Announcement of 

 death of, 351. 



Foote, A. E., A new locality for Anal- 

 cite, 252 ; On a probable Pseudor- 

 morphism of Gummite and Urano- 

 tile after Uraninite, 292 ; On a large 

 Sphene from Canada, 341 . 



Fox, Wm. Logan, Announcement of 

 death of, 159. 



Garrett, Andrew, The Terrestrial Mol- 

 lusca inhabiting the Cooks or Har- 

 vey Islands, 9, 158. 



Genth, F. A., Jr., The so-called Emery- 

 Ore from Chelsea, Bethel Township, 

 Delaware Co., Pa., 311. 



Gilbert, Wm. Kent. Announcement of 

 death of. 226. 



Haines, R., Analysis of Philadelphite, 

 310. 



Haldeman, S. S., Announcement of 

 death of. 341. 



Hallowell. Morris, L., Announcement 

 of death of, 226. 



Hartman, W. D, Description of a 

 Partula supposed to be New, from 

 the Island of Moorea, .225, 229; A 

 Bibliogrophical Catalogue of the 

 Genus Partula, 226. 



Hays, Isaac, Resolution of Thanks for 

 Portrait of, 356. 



Heilprin, A., On the Stratigraphical 

 Evidence afibrded by the Tertiary 

 Fossils of the Peninsula of Mary- 

 land, 20; On some Lower Eocene 

 Mollusca from Clarke Co., Ala., with 

 some points as to the Stratigraphical 

 position of the Beds containing them, 

 359, 364. 



Hering, Constantine, Announcement of 

 death of, 830. 



Hess, R. .J., Report of Biological and 

 Microscopical Section, 414. 



Horn, Geo. H., Report of Correspond- 

 ing Secretary, 407. 



Index to Genera, 451. 



.leanes, Joshua, T., Announcement of 

 death of, 9 : Resolution regarding 

 Bequest of, 225. 



Jefferis, W. W., A new locality for 

 Fluorite, 243 ; A new locality for 

 Amethyst, 280; A new Corundum 




45(5 



INDEX. 



locality, 280; Menaccanite and Talc 

 from Maryland, 292; Sunstone in 

 Labradorite, 2.-t2. 



Kelly, H. A., Sartorius Muscle of the 

 Gorilla, 128. 



King, Dr. Wm. M., Announcement of 

 death of, 134. 



Kingsley, .J. S., Carcinological Notes, 

 No 1, o4 ; Carcinological Notes, No. 

 2, Revision of the Gelasimi, 12, 1.35 ; 

 Carcinological Notes, No. 3, 179; 

 Carcinological Notes, No 4, 134, 

 187. 



Kcenig, Geo. A., Notes on .Jarosite, 

 231. 



Lautenbach, B. F., Announcement of 

 death of, 226. 



Laporte. Count de Castelnau, An- 

 nouncement of death of, 150. 



Lea, Isiac, Resolution of thanks for 

 Portrait of, 159. 



Leidy, Jos., Notice of the Cruel Thread 

 Worm, Filaria immitis, of the Dog, 

 1" : On a Filaria reported to have 

 come from a Man, 130 : Remarks 

 on Pond Life, 156: Rhizopods in 

 the Mosses of the Summit of Roan 

 Mountains, N. C, 332, 333 ; Bone 

 Caves of Pennsylvania, 346 : The 

 Parasites of the Termites, 351, 354 ; 

 Remarks on Bathygnathis borealis, 

 351, 354 : Report" of Curators, 410. 



Lewis, H. C, A new Polariscope, 241 : 

 A Garnet with inverted crystalliza- 

 tion, 241 ; A new locality for Sider- 

 ite. 242; Magnetite Markings in 

 Muscovite, 242 ; A new locality for 

 Asbolite, 243 ; Epidote in Molyb- 

 denite, 243 ; The optical characters 

 of some Micas, 244; On the Meas- 

 urement of Plane Angles, 252; On 

 an Exfoliated Talc. 252; Tin in 

 North Carolina, 253 ; On Siderophyl- 

 lite — a new mineral, 254; On Ster- 

 lingite and Damourite, 2.56 ; Vana- 

 dium in Philadelphia rocks, 256; A 

 new locality for Kp<omite, 257 ; The 

 surface geology of Philadelphia and 

 viciuity, 258 ; On the Bryn Mawr 

 Gravel, 277 ; On some enclosures in 

 Mica, 278; On Dendrites, 278; On 

 a Jurassic Sand, 279; The Minei-als 

 of Surry County, N. C, 280; A new 

 locality for Lignite, 281 ; On Ser- 

 pentine in Bucks Co., 281 ; The Iron 

 Ores and Lignite of the Montgomery 

 Co. Valley, 282; An enclo-ure in 

 Quartz, 292 ; On a new Fucoidal 

 plant from the Trias, 29:;; The 



Trenton Gravel and its relation to 

 the Antiquity of Man, 296; Note on 

 Philadelphite — a new mineral, :>10 ; 

 On Philadelphite, 313; A Potsdam 

 Sandstone Outcrop on the S. Valley 

 Hill of Chester Valley, 329. 



Lippincott, .loshua, Announcement of 

 death of, 355. 



Lockington, W. N., On the Pacific 

 species of Caulolatilus, 13 ; On a 

 new species of Hemitripterus from 

 Alaska, 134, 233 ; Description of a 

 new species of Catostomus (C. cypho) 

 from the Colorado River, 156, 237. 



McCook, Rev. H. C, Note on a new 

 Northern Cutting Ant (Atta septen- 

 trionalls), 859 ; The Shining Slave- 

 maker — Notes on the Architecture 

 and Habits of the American Slave- 

 making Ant (Polyergus lucidus), 

 376. 



Martindale, Isaac C, Sexual variation 

 in Ca«tanea Americana, 351. 



Meehan, Thos., On disarticulating 

 branches in Ampelopsis, 9 ; Germi- 

 nation in Acorns, 128; On the 

 Timber line of high mountains, 341 ; 

 Dimorphic flowers in Houstonia, 

 349; Cleistogamy in Oxalis aceto- 

 sella, 350; Sexual variation in Cas- 

 tanea Americana, 351 ; Rain Trees 

 — Note on Yucca gloriosa, 355 ; 

 Dioecism in Andromeda catesbtei, 

 356; Note on the Seed-ves-els of 

 Wistaria, 358 : Report of Botanical 

 Section, 418. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 Proceedings of. 159, 241 : Report 

 of, 422. 



Nolan, Edw. J., Report of Recording 

 Secretary, 406 : Report of Librarian, 

 408. 



Officers for 1881, 



Parker. Chas. F., Report of Curator in 

 Charge. 410. 



Potts, Edw., Fresh-water Sponges of 

 Fairmount Park, 330 ; On Fresh- 

 water Sponges. 356 



Proceedings of the Mineralogical and 

 Geological Section of the Academy, 

 for the years 1877, 1878 and 1879, 

 150, 241. 



Rand, Theo. D., Serpentine belts of 

 Radnor Township, Del. Co., 225; 

 Change of Serpentine into Quartz, 

 241 ; A new locality for Millerite, 

 243 ; A new locality for Gypsum, 

 252 ; On a belt of Steatite and Ser- 

 pentine in Radnor, Del. Co., 273; 




INDEX. 



457 



Chromite near Radnoi-, Pa., 27o ; 

 On Randite, 274; Some microscopic 

 enclosures in gems, 276 ; Potsdam 

 Sandstone near King of Prussia, 

 279; On a peculiar stratification in 

 Gneiss, 280; The northern belt of 

 Serpentine in Radnor Township, 

 2(io ; Report of Mineralogical and 

 Geological Section, 422, 



Redfield, .J. H., On Rochelia patens, 

 131 ; On the timber line of high 

 mountains, 345 : Report of Botanical 

 Section, 418. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 413. 



Report of Botanical Section, 418. 



Report of Conchological Section, 414. . 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 407 



Report of Curators, 410. 



Report of Entomological Section, 421. 



Report of Librarian, 408. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 422. 



Report of President, 397. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 406. 



Report of Treasurer, 42-5. 



Report on Plants introduced by means 

 of the International Exhibition, 

 1876, 132. 



Rice, J., Announcement of death of, 

 130. 



Riding*, James, announcement of 

 death of, 331. 



Ridings, .1. H., Report of Entomologi- 

 cal Section, 421. 



Robert, S. R., Report of Conchological 

 Section, 414. 



Roepper, W. T., Announcement of 

 death of, 156. 



Ruschenberger, W. S. W., Report of 

 ihe President, 397. 



Stauifer, .Jac, Announcement of death 

 of, 134. 



Tyndall, Hector, Announcement of 

 death of, 134. 



Vauj, Geo., Election to Council, 10; 

 Resignation from Council, 355. 



Vodges, A. W., Description of a new 

 Crustacean from the Upper Silurian 

 of Georgia, with remarks upon Caly- 

 mene Clintoni, 128, 176. 



White, S. S., Announcement of death 

 of, 9. 



Wilcocks, Dr. Alex., Announcement of 

 death of, 356. 



Willcox, Jos., Some new mineral locali- 

 ties, 312: Repor* of Mineralogical 

 and Geological Section, 422. 



Wood, \V. M., M. D., Announcement 

 of death of, 130. 





Proc.AlT.S.PMlajeeO. 



PI. XIX 



- ^•4-^^,>_,^ -•*' .•" 



d*. * 





4,^ 



3 



ArchSt.Phila. 



jyi.Ross. Lith., 



Mc Cook on Slave-making Ant. 





Proc. fl,N,S.,PH[LA„1880. 



Pl. XX. 



.'I lS'ein 4 srs , ?"% 



Lcv>t3 pc Co., Phila.. Kng's. 



HEILPRIN ON EOCENE FOSSILS. 





PROCEEDINGS 



i 



Icctriemg of matutcil $cienre$ 



PH I LADELPHIA. 



PART I. — January f February and March, 18 SO. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., . Geo. H. Hokn, M. I) , 



Wm. S. Vaux, Thomas Meehan, 



• J. H. Redpieid. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan. M. I). 



"b 



'u 



PITIL AT)EI,PHIA: 

 A(»AI)EMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. VV. Cot. of 19th and Race Streets. 

 1880. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the Journal, and Vol. VIII, Part III (Quarto) have 

 been issued — 1847 to 1877. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to sub- 

 scribers ; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Kemains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series oc the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which nine volumes were completed Dec. 31), 1879, is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American .Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each, 



:^c>c>x£.s Foxt. s^a-XjIe:. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed: j^ 



Description of Shells op North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas *ay. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of. the Unionid^ of North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 uncolored 



plates, octavo, 1840. $8. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20 ; colored edition, $13.50 ; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water T^nivalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 : with colored 



plates, $25 : with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid^ (Melanians) of the IFnited States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper. $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, .Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Csnchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D^ 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions TO Geology. By Isaac Lea. $5. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. — All the publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to WM. S. Yaux, Chairman of the publication 

 Committee 1703 Arch Street, or to Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Librarian, at the 

 Hall of the Academy, corner of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



r London, TRUBNER & CO., 

 Agents, j No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



Ju7ie, 1880. [ Salem, Mass., NATURALIST'S AGENCY^ 





CONTENTS. 



Meehan, Thomas. On disarticulating branches in Ampelopsis, 

 Leidy, Jos., M. D. Notice of tlie Cruel Thread Worm, Filaria 

 immitis, of the Dog, . . . . 



LocKiNGTON, W. N. On the Pacific Species of Caulolatilus, 



Hetlprin, Angelo. On the Stratigraphical Evidence afforded 

 by the Tertiary Fossils of the Peninsula of Maryland, 



Kingsley, J. S. Carcinological Notes, No. I. . 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. Description of a Foetal Walj-us, 



Bergii, Dr. R. On the Nudibranchiate Gasteropod Mollusca of 

 the North Pacific Ocean, with special reference to those 

 of Alaska. Part II. (Plates 1-8.) . . . 



Kelly, Howard A. Sartorius Muscle of the Gorilla. 



Meehan, Thos. Germination in Acorns, ..... 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. On a Filaria reported to have conic from a 

 Man, 



10 

 13 



20 

 34 



38 



40 

 128 

 128 



130 



Redfield, J. H. On Rochelia i>atens, . . . . .131 

 Report on Plants introduced by means of the International Ex- 

 hibition, 1876, 132 



Allen, Harrison. Mammary Glands of Bats, . . . .133 



Kingsley, J. S. Carcinological Notes, No. II. — Revision of the 



Gelasimi. (Plates 9 arid 10.) 135 



W. p. K'LDARE, PR., 734 t 73f CANSOM ST.. PV:iLADrt. 




PROCEEDINGS 



OK THE 



AtcttUmg of %i\i\m\l %m\m 



OF 



PHTI.ADET.PHTA. 



PART IL— APRIL to SEPTEMBEB, 1880. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



.J08EPH Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan. M. D. 



PHIL A.DELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Uor. of 19th and Kace Streets. 

 1880. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the Joui.nal, and Vol. VIII, Part III (Quarto) have 

 been issued— 1847 to 1877. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to sub- 

 scribers ; and to others, §12.60 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The FiiisT Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1S56, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30.' 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which nine volumes were completed Dec. 31), 1879, is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers; single volumes, $6.26. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. 'Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices aflBxed: 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Unionid^ of North America. . By T. A. Conrad. 60 uncolored 



plates, octavo, 1840. $8. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20 ; colored edition, $13.50 ; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold, 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water TTnivalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored 



plates, $25 ; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species op Strepomatid^ (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American AVriters on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W.. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil CeNCHOLOGY of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



plates. $60. ^ 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions TO Geology. By Isaac Lea. '$5. 

 Fossil ^Oot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 60 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. — All the publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to WM. S. Vaux, Chairman of the publication 

 Committee, 1702 Arch Street, or to Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Librarian, at the 

 Hall of the Academy, corner of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



r London, TRUBNER & CO., 



Agents -! ■^"^- ^^ Paternoster Row. 



j^^^^^ 1880 [ Saletn, Mass., NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 




CONTENTS — CONTINUED FROM NEXT PAGE. 



Garnet mistaken for Corundum, 



Trenton Gravel and its Relation to the 



Rand. Theo. D. The Northein Belt of Serpentine in Radnor 



Township, 

 Cardeza, Dr. J. M. 

 Lewis, H. C. The 



Antiquity of Man, .... 

 Lewis, H. C. Note on Philadelphite — a new Mineral, 

 Haines, Reuben. Analysis of Philadelphite, 

 Genth, F. a., Jr. The so called Emery-Ore from Chelsea, 



Bethel Township, Del. Co., Pa., 

 Rand, Theodore D. Change of Serpentine into Quartz, 

 Lewis, H. C. A new locality for Sideritc, 



Magnetite Markings in Muscovite, 



A new locality for Asbolif e, 



W. A new locality for Fluorite, 



Epidote in ^Molybdenite, 



Rand, Theo., D. A new locality for Millerite, 



Lewis, H. C. The Optical Characters of some Micas, 



A new locality for Analcite, 



On the Measurement of Plane Angles, 



On an Exfoliated Talc, 



Tin in North Carolina, 



D. A new locality for Gypsum, 



On Siderophyllite —a new Mineral, 



On Sterlingite and Damourite, 



Vanalirum in Philadelphia Rocks, 



A new locality for Epsomite, 



The Surface Geology of Philadelphia and vicinity 



Chromite near Radnor, Pa., 



On Randite, 



D. Some Microscopic Enclosures in Mica, 



On the Bryn Mawr Gravel, ■ 



On some Enclosures in Mica, . 



On Dendrites, 



On a Jurassic Sand, . 



D. Potsdam Sandstone near King of Prussia, 



WiLLCOX, Jos. Some new Mineral localities, 



Lewis, H. C. On Philadelphite (Sp. Nov.), 



Lewis, H. C. A Potsdam Sandstone Outcrop on the S 



Hill of Chester Valley, .... 



Potts, Edw. Fresh-water Sponges of Fairmount Park, 



KoENiG, Geo. A. Notes on .Jarosite. 



Leidt, Jos., M. D. Rhizopods in the Mosses of the summit of Roan 



Mountain, N. C, . 



FooTE, A. E. On Large Sphene from Canada, 

 Meehan, Thos. (Jn the Timber Line of High Mountain's, 

 Redfield, J. H. On the Timber Line of High Mountains, 

 Leidy, Jos., M. D. Bone Caves of Pennsylvania, 

 Meehan, Thos. Dimorijhic Flowers in Houstonia, 

 Meehan, Thos. Cleistogamy in Oxalis Acetosella, L., 

 Martindale, Isaac C. Sexual Variations in Castanea Americana, • 



Lewis, H. C. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Jefferis, W. 

 Lewis, H. C. 



Foote, a. E. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Rand, Theo. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Rand, Theo. D. 

 Rand, Theo. D. 

 Rand, Theo. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Lewis, H. C. 

 Rand, Theo. 



Valley 



295 

 295 



296 

 310 

 310 



311 



241 

 242 

 242 

 243 

 248 

 243 

 243 

 244 

 252 

 252 

 252 

 253 

 253 

 254 

 256 

 256 

 257 

 258 

 273 

 274 

 276 

 277 

 278 

 278 

 279 

 279 

 312 

 313 



329 



830 



331 



333 

 341 

 341 

 345 

 346 

 849 

 350 

 353 




— 'Sfjl 



CONTENTS. 



Orang 



Outang. 



KiNGSLRY, J. S. Carcinological Notes, No. II.— Revision of the 



Gelasimi. (Continued) ...... 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Remarks on Pond Life, . 

 Chapman, H. C, M. D. On the Structure of the 



(Plates 11 to 17). .... 



VoGDEs, Anthony W. Description of a New Crustacean from the 



Upper Silurian of Georgia, with remarks upon Calymene Clintoni, 

 Kingsley, J. S. Carcinological Notes, No. III.— Revision of the 



Genus Ocypoda, ...... 



Kingsley, J. S. Carcinological Notes, No. IV.— Synopsis of the 



Grapsidse, ••...... 



Rand, Theodoke D. Serpentine Belts of Radnor' Township, Dela- 

 ware Co., ••...... 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. On some Homologies in Bunodont 



Dentition, ••...... 



Hartman, W. D., M. D. Description of a Partula supposed to be 



New, from the Island of 3Ioorea, ..... 

 Barbeck, Wm. On the Development of Lemna Minor. (Plate 18), 

 Lockington, W. N. Description of a new species of Hemitripterus 



from Alaska, ........ 



Lockington, W. N. Description of a new species of Catostoraus 



(Catostomus cypho) from the Colorado River, 

 Proceedings op the Mineralogical and Geological Section op 

 THE Academy op Natural Sciences op Philadelphia : 



Lewis, H. C. A new Polariscope, . . . . . 



Lewis, H.C. A Garnet with Inverted Crystallization, . 



Jefferis, W. W. a new locality for Amethyst, . 



Jepperis, W. W. a new Corundum locality, 



Lewis, H. C. The Minerals of Surry Co., N. C, 



Cardeza, Dr. J. M. Fossil (?) Casts in Sandstone, 



Rand, Theo. D. On a peculiar Stratification in Gneiss, . 



Lewis, H. C. A new locality for Lignite, 



Lewis, H. C. On Serpentine in Bucks Co., 



Lewis, H. C. The Iron Ores and Lignite of the Montgomery 

 Co. Valley,^ •-..... 



Lewis, H. C . An Enclosure in Quartz, .... 



Jefferis, Wm. W. Menaccanite and Talc from Maryland, 



Jepperis, Wm. W. Sunstone in Labradorite, 



FooTE, A. E. On a probable Pseudomorphism of Gummite and 

 Uranotile after Uraninite, ...... 



Lewis, H, C. On a new Fucoidal Plant from the Trias, 



153 

 156 



160 



176 



179 



187 



335 



336 



339 

 330 



333 



387 



341 

 341 

 380 

 380 

 380 

 380 

 380 

 381 

 381 



388 

 393 

 393 

 393 



393 

 393 



^ 



J 



v;. p. K!LD.'.RE, PR.. 734 t 73e Z.\NSOU. ST., PKtLAuA. 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



iciijemg of %i\i\mil ^tkwm 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART III.— OCTOBER to DBCBMBEB, 1880. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redpield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan. M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Cor. of 19th and Race Streets 

 1880. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Journal (Quarto) have been issued — 1847 to 

 1881. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to subscribers ; and to others, 

 $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains " The Extinct Mammalian Fauna 

 of Dakota and Nebraska, vrith a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America." 

 Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The FiKST Series op the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series op the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illitstrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which ten volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1880), is published at $6 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchologv, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed- 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.60. 

 Monograph of the Unionid^ of North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 uncolored 



plates, octavo, 1840. $8. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. Wiih illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Pine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20 ; colored edition, $13.50 ; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 



Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored 



plates, $25; with plain plates, SIS. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid^ (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, S2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil C©nchology of C. S. Rafinesque, Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. AVith 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithogra23hic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $5. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. ^All the publications of tlie Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount o£ 30 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edwakd .J. Nolan, M.D., at the Hall of the 

 Academy, comer of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



r Londo?i, TRUBNER & CO., 

 I 

 Agents ' ^^* ^^ Paternoster Row. 



February, 1881. L '^"^^'"' ^«^«-' NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 





CONTENTS. 



Martindale, Isaac C. Sexual Variations in Castanea Ameri- 



cara. (Continued.) 352 



Meehan, Thos. Sexual Variations in Plants, . . . 353 

 Meehan, Thos. Rain Trees. Note on Yucca gloriosa. . 355 

 Meehan, Thos. Dia3cism in Andromeda Catesbaii, Walt. . 356 

 Potts, Edw. On fresh-water Sponges. . ; . . 356 

 Meehan, Thos. Note on the Seed-A-essels of Wistaria. . 358 

 Allen, Harrison, M.D. The Phalanges of Bats. . . 359 

 McCooK, Rev. H. C. Note on a new Northern Cutting 



Ant, Atta septentrionalis 359 



Heilprin, Angelo. On some New Lower Eocene Mollusca 

 from Clarke Co., Alabama, with some points as to the 

 Stratigraphical Position of the Beds containing them. 



(Plate 20.) 364 



McCooK, Rev. H. C. The Shining Slavemaker.— Notes on 

 the Architecture and Habits of the American Slave- 

 making Ant, Polygergus lucidus. * (Plate 19.) . . 376 

 Allen, Harrison, M. D. On the Temporal and Masseter 



Muscles of Mammals . 385 



Report of the President. . 397 



Report of the Recording Secretary 406 



Report of the Corresponding Secretarj^ 407 



Report of the Librarian • . 408 



Report of the Curators. 410 



Report of the Biological and Microscopical Section. . . 413 

 Report of the Conchological Section. . . . .414 



Report of the Botanical Section 418 



Report of the Entomological Section 421 



Report of the Mineralogical and Geological Section. . . 422 



Summary of the Report of the Treasurer 425 



Election of Officers for 1881 428 



Index to Genera 451 



3. 



I 



v;. p. K".2'-c, T.. 734 t. rz" ;Ari:rr/, st., philaow. 






I»lif 





