



PROCEEDINGS 



The Academy of Natural Sciences 



PHILADELPHIA 



VOLUME LXV 



1913 



philadelphia : 

 The Academy of Naiural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1914 




The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



February 4, 1914. 



I liereby certify that pi-inted copies of the PROCEEDiNcis for 191:^ were 

 mailed as follows: — 



Pages 1-80 



81-112 



" 113-150 



" 151-182 



" 183-214 



■ " 215-262 



" 263-390 



" 391-408 



" 407-486 



" 487-504 



" 505-552 November 19, 1913. 



" 553-568 , November 22, 1913. 



" 569-616 December 17, 1913. 



" 617-712 January 28, 1914. 



EDWARD J. NOLAN. 



Recording Secretary. 



PUBLICATION committee: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Wither Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 The President, Samuel Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D., ex-ojficiu. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



7 / ri" 




CONTENTS. 



Fuv Aruujuncements, Reports, etc., .see General Index. 



Baker, Fred. The land and fresh-water mollusks of the 



Stanford Expedition to Brazil (Plates XXI-XXVH) 618 



Banks, Nathan. Notes on the types of some American 



spiders in European collections (Plates XI, XII, XIII) 177 



Notes on some Costa Rican Arachnida (Plates XXVIII- 



XXX) : 676 



Barbour, Thomas. Reptiles collected by the Yale Peruvian 



Expedition of 1912 (Plate XVII) 505 



Berry, S. Stillman. Notes on some West American • ceph- 



alopods 73 



Bilgram, Hugo. The critical point of liquids 582 



Boyer, Charles S. On diatoms of Philadelphia 581 



Brown, Amos P., Ph.D. Variation in two species of Lucidella 



from Mexico (Plate I) 3 



Notes on the geology of the Island of Antigua (Plates 



XVIII, XIX, XX) 584 



Brown, Amos P., and Henry A. Pilsbry. Two collections of 



Pleistocene fossils from the Isthmus of Panama 493 



Calvert, Philip P., Ph.D. The fossil Odonate Phenacolestes, 

 with a discussion on the venation of the legion Poda- 



grion Selys (Plate XIV) 225 



Campion, Herbert. The antenodal reticulation of the wings 



of Agrionine dragonflies 220 



Cockerell, T. D. a.. Some Australian bees 28 



Dall, William Healey. New species of the genus Mohnia 



from the North Pacific 501 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on Catostomoid fishes 45 



Notes on the fishes of the Chincoteague region in Virginia . 61 

 Some type specimens of the American Cyprinoid fishes 



of the genus Rutilus 66 



Amphibians and reptiles from Ecuador, Venezuela, and 



Yucatan (Plates V-X) 153 



Fishes from the Madeira River 517 



Curimatus spilurus Cope, a wrongly identified Characin 673 




CONTENTS 



PAGE 



Heath, Harold. The anatomy of two Brazilian land shells, 



Anostoma depressum and Tomigerus clausus (Plate 



XXXI) '. 688 



Hebard, Morgan. A revision of the ' species of the geniis 



Nemobius (Orthoptera: Gryllidse) found in North 



America north of the Isthmus of Panama 394 



Palmer, T. Chalkley. The collecting and preparation of 



diatoms 580 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., Sc.D. Notes on some Lower Californian 



Helices (Plates XV, XVI) 380 



Reiin, James A. G. Descriptions and records of South 



American Orthoptera, with the description of a new 



subspecies from Clarion Island 82 



A contribution to the knowledge of the Orthoptera of 



Argentina 273 



Stone, Witmer. On a collection of birds obtained by the 



Francis E. Bond Expedition in the Orinoco Delta and 



Paria Peninsula, Venezuela 189 



Thompson, J. C, M.D. Oxyrhopus trigeminus Dumeril and 



Bibron the type of Erythroxyrhopus gen. nov. 78 



Notes on serpents in the family Colubridse 213 



Contributions to the synonymy of serpents of the family 



Lapida? 508 



Vanatta, E. G. Descriptions of new species of marine shells 



(Plate II) 22 



Weidman, Fred D. A study of metazoan parasites found in 



the Philadelphia Zoological Garden (Plate IV) 126 



Wherry, Edgar T., Ph.D. North border relations of the 



Triassic in Pennsylvania (Plate III) 114 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1913. 



January 21. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Thirty-seven persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the 

 following titles had been presented for publication in the Pro- 

 ceedings : 



"The distribution of the genus Cyclops in the vicinity of Haver- 

 ford, Pennsylvania," by R. A. Spaeth (December 19, 1912). 



"Further notes on the flora of the Conowingo Barrens of south- 

 eastern Pennsj-lvania," by Francis W. Pennell (December 27, 1912; 

 published in the Proceedings, December, 1912). 



"Oxyrhopus trigeminus Dum. et Bibr. the type of Erythro- 

 oxyrhopus gen. nov.," by T. C. Thompson, M.D., U. S. N. (January 2). 



"Variation in two species of Lucidella from Jamaica," by Amos 

 P. Brown (January 6). 



The death of Dr. George A. Koenig, a member, January 14, was 

 announced. 



The Council reported the appointment of the following Standing 

 Committees to serve during the year: 



Finance.— John Cadwalader, A.M., Edwin S. Dixon, Eflingham 

 B. Morris, James D. Winsor, and the Treasurer. 

 1 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Library.— Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., Thomas Biddle, M.D., 

 George Vaux, Jr., Henry Tucker, M.D., and Frank J. Keeley. 



Publications.— Henry Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Instruction and Lectures. — Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles 

 Morris,. Witmer Stone, A.M., Henry Tucker, M.D., George S. 

 Morris. 



Mr. Frank J. Keeley was appointed Curator of the William S. 

 Vaux Collections. 



Mr. Joseph Willcox was appointed Custodian of the Isaac Lea 

 Collection. 



George Vaux, Jr., was appointed the Solicitor of the Academy. 



Dr. F. D. Weidman made a report on his studies in the metazoan 

 parasitology of animals in the Philadelphia Zoological Gardens, 

 illustrated by tables, microscopic preparations, and lantern figures. 

 (No abstract.) 



The thanks of the Academy were voted to Dr. Weidman for his 

 important communication. 



The following was adopted: 



Resolved, That the members of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia do hereby express to Thomas Biddle, M.D., their 

 appreciation of the valuable additions he has made to the mam- 

 malian collection, especially the skeletons and mounted specimens 

 of anthropoids, constituting as they do the most comprehensive 

 collection in America. 



The following were elected members: 

 J. Henry Scattergood, 

 Alfred M. Collins, 

 E. Marshall Scull. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



VARIATION IN TWO SPECIES OF LUCIDELLA FROM JAMAICA. 

 BY AMOS P. BROWN. 



The genus Lucidella is best known from species found in the 

 island of Jamaica, from which locahty the first species were figured 

 by Ferrusac^ under the name of Helix aureola. Ferrusac then figures 

 the two common species of Jamaica, which appear to have a general 

 distribution throughout most parts of the island. These species 

 are very plentiful in the interior of the island, particularly in the 

 Mandeville region. They live in the more undisturbed parts along 

 the borders of woods, seeming to prefer situations where there is a 

 certain amount of sun, rather than in the dense woods. Along 

 the roads they are met with inhabiting the stone walls, which are 

 the common fences in this part of the island. When once established 

 in the walls they appear to flourish, even when the woods are cut 

 away from the vicinity of the roads, and where they have plenty 

 of cover and not too much dryness they develop into as large forms 

 as in the more undisturbed regions. Lucidella aureola (Fer.) is 

 probably more generally and widely distributed, but L. granulosa 

 C. B. Adams is more plentiful in the Mandeville country, though 

 both forms are found living together. Along grassy roadsides with 

 low limestone rock exposures and even where the red residual clay 

 from the limestone forms the banks of the road they are found 

 in numbers; in the case of the red clay banks, perhaps L. aureola 

 is somewhat more common, while L. granulosa is found more fre- 

 quently in numbers where the limestone exposures are seen. This 

 habit of living along the borders of woods and in the more open 

 rocky woods is common with both species in the more undisturbed 

 regions where the original forest still exists. 



These two species have adapted themselves to the conditions 

 brought about by advancing civilization and clearing of the land, 

 and are well established, even in the oldest settled districts, being 

 found in numbers in many places that have been quite stripped of 



1 D. de Ferrusac and G. P. Deshayes, Hist. Nat. des Mollusi^ues, Vol. 3, 1820- 

 1851, PI. 48, 1, three figures oilLucidella aureola (Fer.) and PI. 49A, 1, two figures 

 of L. granulosa C. B. Adams, all figured by Ferrusac under the name of Helix 

 aureola. 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the original forest. But it is to be noted that it is in these places, 

 where the woods have been cleared for a long period of years, that 

 a reduction not in numbers of individuals, but in size may be ob- 

 served. While the evidence is not entirely complete, it seems to 

 point to a reduction in size in those places where the forest has been 

 entirely cleared away and where the animals are now living under 

 conditions of greater dryness than the optimum conditions that obtain 

 in places where the original forest is still more or less undisturbed. 

 The variations treated of in this paper are seen in individuals of 

 these species that are living under the optimum conditions which 

 obtain in the forested sections, as contrasted with those individuals 

 which are found in the dryer, cleared sections. The localities from 

 which these contrasted individuals were obtained are in Manchester 

 Parish, near Mandeville for L. gramdosa; and for L. aureola, the 

 same region as contrasted with the Montego Bay district. 



Lucidella granulosa is found almost everywhere in the region 

 about Mandeville where the conditions are favorable. It is in 

 this locality much more common than L. aureola, which, however, 

 is found plentifully in this part of Manchester. But L. granulosa 

 was not taken at Montego Bay, while a small form of L. aureola 

 was very plentiful at this station. Perhaps the most typical forms 

 of L. granulosa come from the borders of the undisturbed woods 

 in Manchester Parish near Mandeville, and it seems likely that it 

 was from this region that C. B. Adams first collected the form. 

 From the many colonies in the Mandeville region from which I 

 collected these typical forms of this species the Somerset, Somerset 

 Road, and Benmore woods colonies may be selected as furnishing 

 characteristic examples of the normal form. These localities have 

 been described in a former paper;- it will suffice here to state that 

 they were places where the original forest still exists and optimum 

 conditions for the growth of this species obtain. The small forms 

 that are compared with these typical forms were collected at two 

 stations where the forest had been completely cleared, at least 

 near the roads along which the collecting was done, and were near 

 the Sturridge place, some three miles to the southeast of Mandeville 

 village, and along the Kendal Road,^ one mile to the north of the 

 town. A short description of these stations will be necessary. 



- Brown, Variation in some Jamaican Species of Pleurodonte, these Proceed- 

 ings, 1911, pp. 124, 128, 129. 

 ^See map of Mandeville region, loc. cil. these Proceedings, 1911, p. 121. 




1913.] MATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



The Sturridge place, about three miles to the southeast of 

 Mandeville, is in the old settled part of the region. Here the original 

 forest has long been cleared, and the country is almost bare of shade 

 trees. A few scattered orange or pimento trees along the roadsides 

 are the only protection from the tropical sun, and the bare fields, 

 while grassy, have an arid look as compared to the dense woods 

 of the original forest. The only cover for the mollusks is in the 

 stone walls, which, as usual, are built along the roads as fences. 

 An old private burying-ground, doubtless belonging to the Sturridge 

 place, had a few trees growing in it which made a little shade and this 

 old cemetery wall was the most favorable place for mollusks that 

 was found at this point. Here and at a few places nearby along 

 the road specimens of L, granulosa were obtained. They were 

 not very plentiful, but were found in fair numbers, and in as great 

 numbers as any other species of mollusk collected at this point. 

 They were quite uniformly small specimens. They inhabited the 

 wall, utilizing its cover, and were collected from the wall and from 

 the ground at its base. 



The other station where the small form of L. granulosa was taken 

 was on the Kendal Road, one mile north of Mandeville ; along a 

 part of the road through pasture lands where the trees had been 

 cleared back from the road on the more level ground, so that there 

 was but little shade along the road. Here again the Lucidellas 

 were living in the low stone walls which lined the road and were 

 especially abundant in places where the top of the wall was covered 

 with moss or fern. Here the dead shells of this small form of L. 

 granulosa were very plentiful, many in verj^ fresh condition, but, 

 during the dry time when I was collecting, no living individuals 

 were seen moving about. They had apparently come up on the 

 tops of the walls to escape from the rain during wet weather 

 and died there. At this place the only cover for the snails was to 

 be found in the wall itself. This, as in the case of the Sturridge 

 place, must have been very dry except after a shower or during the 

 rather uncertain rainy seasons. This small form of L. granulosa 

 is well established at this station, but only the small individuals 

 were seen, as was the case at the Sturridge place. It is practically 

 a small local race at each locality. 



While not so plentiful as L. granulosa in the Mandeville region, 

 L. aureola is found almost everywhere that the conditions are favor- 

 able. This species lives on the ground and is found on grassy banks, 

 even where there is no rock. It does not require rock piles or walls 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



for cover, evidently grassy pastures offering sufficient cover and 

 food for the species. This probably explains its present wide 

 distribution, as compared with L. granulosa, and its persisting in 

 places where the other species are not now found. It occurred along 

 the borders of the woods in the Somerset region and along the road- 

 sides at almost all places about Mandeville, especially being col- 

 lected along the Lower Santa Cruz Road in considerable numbers. 

 Here it was living on the grassy borders of the road, and was taken 

 from the clay banks in places where, for instance, Cepolis {Hemi- 

 trochus) graminicola was common. Along this Santa Cruz road the 

 forest is mostly cleared, but the L. aureola has sufficient cover in the 

 grass of the pastures which the road passes through. Both here 

 and especially at Somerset, two places selected as furnishing normal 

 forms of the species, the animals are living under what may be 

 termed optimum conditions. Nowhere in the Mandeville region, 

 in fact (except, perhaps near the Sturridge place, where L. aureola 

 was not found), are the fields really arid and, for a form that can 

 live on the ground with only grass for cover, the conditions are 

 perhaps never very unfavorable. A small form of this species is found 

 at Montego Bay, a region where the soil is so thin that the clearing 

 of the forest has resulted in the development of conditions that may 

 be described as arid, at least during the dry part of the year. Mon- 

 tego Bay is one of the oldest settlements in the island, dating back 

 to the Spanish occupation. The original forest has been cleared off 

 all of the more level ground, which has been under cultivation for 

 probably the greater part of a century. Where trees have been 

 planted, they are mostly logwood, which is grown in the pastures; 

 the trees being planted sufficiently far apart to allow the pasture 

 grass plenty of sun. In these logwood plantations, especially if 

 they are on a slope, the soil is very thin and the rock comes near the 

 surface. During the dry season the ground gets very parched 

 and the grass quite brown; in the wet season, from the end of April 

 to the end of November, when showers may occur at any time, the 

 torrential rains almost immediately drain off on the hill slopes, 

 and owing to the porous character of the soil the ground becomes 

 quite dry between the showers. For a great part of the year, 

 except when a rainy week maj- occur in May or November, any 

 mollusks that are ground dwellers must exist under alternating 

 short periods of great moisture and dryness, while during the dry 

 season, from December to April, they must sestivate under the almost 

 arid conditions which obtain. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



Lucidella granulosa C. B. Adams. Plate I, figs 1-15. 



Helix aureola var. Fcr., Nat. Hist, des Mollusques, Vol. 3, 1820-1851, PI. 



49A, two figures marked 1. 

 Helicina aureola Gray, Zool. Jour., 1, p. 70, pi. 6, fig. 15. 

 Lucidella aureola var. granulosa C. B. Ad., Cont. Conch., 6, 1850, p. 89. 

 Lucidella undulata Pfr., Malak., Bl. VIII, 1861, p. 171. 



This, is the species usually labelled L. undulata in collections. 

 It was first figured by Ferrusac along with L. aureola under the name 

 Helicina aureola. The two figures on Ferrusac 's plate 49A numbered 

 1 represent a form covered with granules which he considered to 

 be a variety of Helix aureola and which is the common species of 

 Lucidella in the Manchester district. C. B. Adams refers to this 

 form as follows: '*A variety of Lucidella aureola is so strongly sculp- 

 tured with granules that it will be convenient to designate the 

 variety with the name of granulosa.^' (Adams, loc. cit.) This was 

 in 1850, and eleven years afterwards, in 1861, Pfeiffer describes 

 this form, referring to Ferrusac's figure above mentioned, under 

 the name of L. undulata. It is by this name of Pfeiffer's that the 

 species is generally known, although the granulosa of Adams ante- 

 dates Pfeiffer's name by eleven years. Inasmuch as C. B. Adams 

 collected in the Mandeville region in Manchester, it is very likely 

 that his granulosa came from this district. In a former paper* 

 it is recorded in the Mandeville region from Benmore, Bloomfield, 

 Sturridge place, Cedar Hill, Lower Santa Cruz Road, ridge near 

 Lincoln, Somerset, Somerset Road, and it was also collected on 

 the Kendal Road north of Mandeville as well as several otner places 

 in this vicinity. Most of the specimens of this species in the 

 A. N. S. P. Collection were taken by me in 1910, but there are three 

 or four trays simply recorded as from ''Jamaica," one of which 

 marked "Swift Collection" is of especial interest. This lot probably 

 came from H. Vendries, of Kingston, and is marked on the collector's 

 label "L, aureola Fer. var. gra7iidosa"; they possess the characters 

 which seem to distinguish this species in a pronounced degree. 

 If these are Vendries specimens they no doubt came from St. Andrews 

 Parish. They may be described as follows: 



Lucidella granulosa C. B. Ad. (Swift Collecton A. N. S. P.) Plate I, figs 1-3. 



Shell somewhat convexly conoidal, rather thick, somewhat 

 keeled on the periphery and wrinkled, in the direction of the growth 

 lines, radially from the apex; color reddish-brown, mottled with 

 whitish; of about 6 whorls; sculpture of raised spiral lines or lirae, 



* Pilsbry and Brown: The Mollusca of Mandeville, Jamaica, and its Environs, 

 Proc. a. N. S. p. ,1910, pp. 510-535; Lucidella undulata Pfr. p. 525. 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



covering the entire surface, those above the periphery being swollen 

 at intervals, when crossed by the radial wrinkles or corrugations 

 that follow the growth lines, thus forming both the raised granula- 

 tion and the whitish spots, from the raised lirse becoming whitish 

 where swollen. The swelling of the revolving spirals becomes very 

 pronounced along the periphery, which is thus raised into a series of 

 tubercles, commencing about the beginning of the fourth whorl 

 and continuing to the lip. The swelling of the lirse to form the 

 granulation does not extend far below the periphery, not more than 

 4 or 5 of the revolving striae being thus affected. The striae continue, 

 however, to the umbihcus, becoming fainter as this is approached. 

 Diam. 7,7, alt. 5.5 mm. 



The keeled and tuberculated periphery seems to be characteristic 

 of this species, but is not always, as in this Swift Collection lot, 

 carried out to the lip. It is present in the young shells in all cases, 

 which would seem to indicate that the ancestral species must have 

 resembled this one from the Swift Collection. None of the Mande- 

 ville region specimens normally show this tuberculated and keeled 

 periphery in the adult state, at least not entirely up to the lip; 

 but the young all show it. The Somerset Road specimens (Plate 

 I, figs. 6, 10), w^hich perhaps lived under as nearly optimum condi- 

 tions for this species as any collected in the Mandeville region, 

 show this tuberculated and keeled periphery up to nearly the end 

 of the fifth whorl, but the peripheral tul^erculation dies away 

 before the sixth whorl is reached. Young shells from this station 

 have quite a different appearance from the adults. This seems, as 

 above stated, to be the general condition of the species in the Man- 

 chester region, the adult stage has lost the peripheral granulation, 

 but the younger stages show it. And it is perhaps more pronounced 

 in the Somerset specimens than in any of the others, the last whorl 

 being frequently nearly smooth (Plate I, fig. 4, figs. 7-9), on the 

 periphery. An exceptional specimen from Somerset, showing the 

 tuberculated periphery, is figured at 5 on the plate. The tuberculate 

 condition of the periphery extends from the middle of the third 

 whorl (2.5 whorls from the apex) to the middle of the fifth whorl 

 (4.5 whorls from the apex). Thus the last whorl (there are five 

 and one-half to six whorls) is comparatively smooth on the pe- 

 riphery, and, except for the color pattern, the shell at first sight 

 resembles L. aureola. The color pattern itself varies when the 

 peripheral tuberculation disappears; when it is present there is a 

 regular periodicity in the recurrence of the whitish patches which 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



mark the swelling of the lirae that is the cause of the lighter spots, 

 they run from 16 to 20 to the whorl, and when this periodicity is 

 seen with the whitish spots reaching the periphery, this in turn 

 becomes tuberculated and keeled. This regularity of the markings 

 is characteristic of the younger stages, and as long as it is seen the 

 young shell will be found to be keeled and tuberculated; when it 

 disappears and the color pattern becomes a mottling of the shell, then 

 the periphery is neither keeled nor tuberculated. In the two places, 

 where dwarfed shells were taken, a large number of them have 

 this tuberculated and keeled periphery on the last whorl, although 

 considerably less than half are so ornamented. It is noticeable 

 that the whitish ornamentation, when it is accompanied by the pe- 

 ripheral tuberculation, follows the growth lines, and is then more 

 continuous and stronger. But when it curves towards the mouth 

 of the shell and crosses the growth lines, it tends to break up into 

 branches, rarely reaches the periphery, and practically never causes 

 tuberculation. .When the animals are living under optimum condi- 

 tions, as at the Somerset and Somerset Road stations, this bending 

 forward of the ornamentation across the growth lines becomes 

 characteristic, and the color pattern becomes finer and less regular 

 by the branching of these whitish lines or by their breaking up into 

 dots. And where this finely mottled color pattern is seen, the last 

 whorl is nearly smooth and the periphery is free from tubercles. 



The tuberculated condition of the periphery is thus a character 

 of the young stages, sometimes continued into the adult stages 

 up to the development of the lip. The appearance of this character 

 in the dwarfed races (Plate I, figs. 11-15) at Kendal Road station 

 and at the Sturridge station is due to what is generally described 

 as ''reversion to an ancestral form"; or it is due to the animals, 

 living under unfavorable conditions as regards shell development 

 and growth, which causes them to mature at an earlier stage than 

 those forms which live under optimum conditions. But while the 

 conditions are unfavorable to growth, they are not unfavorable to 

 reproduction, for these dwarfed forms are very plentiful at the 

 localities where they were taken. An examination of the shells 

 of these Kendal Road and Sturridge forms will show at once from 

 the growi:h lines that they grew with many interruptions, as many 

 as 30 such interruptions being often seen in one shell. Those from 

 Kendal Road station also mature earlier, as they have only five 

 whorls, instead of five and one-half or six, as in forms growing under 

 more favorable conditions. The forms that live in walls, whether 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



of this species or any other, where the wall is their only cover, are 

 always subject to such recurring periods of enforced inactivity^ 

 during dry spells and with the long period of the dry season, which 

 may last for several months, during which the sexual organs prob- 

 ably mature. These wall dwellers become active after every shower, 

 and probably aestivate temporarily during the dry spells between 

 showers, so they have many less growing days throughout the year 

 than forms that may move about and feed any day. Each aesti- 

 vation period is marked by a pronounced gro^vth line, and the 

 30 or more such interruptions mentioned above are thus recorded. 

 If the adult stage is reached by the animal before the shell has passed 

 through the tuberculated-and-keeled periphery stage of shell growth, 

 then the adult, with lip developed, has this tuberculated periphery; 

 if this stage has been passed the last whorl is smooth and not tuber- 

 culated along the periphery. In the Sturridge place forms, where 

 the whorls may reach five and one-half, but few show the tuber- 

 culation of the periphery extending out to the lip. 



Lucidella aureola (Fer.). Plate I, figs. 16-26. 



Helix aureola Ferrusac, Nat. Hist, des Mollusques, Vol. 3, 1820-1851, 



PI. 48, fig. 1 (not. PI. 49A, 1). 

 Helicina {Lucidella) aureola Sow., Thes., Vol. Ill, p. 282, No. 56, figs. 94, 



479. 

 Lucidella aureola Swainson, Chemn. ed. nov., PL 5, figs. 20-23. 



This is the most widely distributed species of Lucidella in the 

 island of Jamaica, but it generally occurs in small numbers at any 

 one station. Specimens of this species were examined that were 

 collected in Portland (Port Antonio), St. Andrews (Stony Hill and 

 Constant Spring), St. Catharine (Natural Bridge, Bog Walk), Man- 

 chester (various points near Mandeville), and St. James (Montego 

 Bay at Orange Hill and Rose Mount) as well as a number of other 

 collections of which the locality was not recorded further than as 

 from "Jamaica." Among these, the race from St. James as found at 

 Orange Hill and Rose Mount is a small, dwarfed form which is differ- 

 ent from any seen elsewhere, and is only matched in size by an occa- 

 sional specimen from the region to the southwest of Mandeville, 

 along the Santa Cruz road. With the exception of this St. James 

 race from the vicinity of Montego Bay, the general description of 

 the species (Plate I, figs. 16-21) is as follows: 



Shell depressed conoidal, spire somewhat convex, apex mucronate; 

 uniformly colored some shade of chestnut, paler in the young shells; 

 the shell sculptured with fine revolving lirse and the whorls crossed 

 by oblique wrinkles which follow the growth lines in direction. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



beginning to appear generally on the second whorl and sometimes 

 continuing to the lip, but dying away towards the periphery, or, 

 if they cross it, not producing a thickening of the hrae at this point. 

 Whorls six or somewhat over (6.3) and rarely less than 5.7. The 

 revolving strise become fainter and are almost obsolete in the 

 umbilicus. The number of these revolving strise varies through 

 the appearance of interstitial lirse between those already existing, 

 which eventually develop to the same size as the others. There 

 are generally about 45 lirse on the last whorl, of which 18 or 20 

 are above the periphery, they are close and even and are not thick- 

 ened where the oblique wrinkles cross them. The size varies with 

 the locality, ranging from diam. = 10 mm. by alt. = 7.7 mm. 

 (Pfeiffer) to diam. = 5.6 mm. by alt. =4.3 in the smallest specimen 

 taken in the vicinity of Mandeville. 



This smallest specimen, which came from the Lower Santa Cruz 

 Road about three miles from Mandeville is simply a diminutive 

 reproduction of the largest which was found at Somerset, with 

 somewhat fewer whorls but \vith none of the peripheral granulation 

 observed on some of the Montego Bay specimens (Plate I, figs. 

 22-26). These latter, which, as stated above, were collected on the 

 Orange Hill and the Rose Mount estates, differ from the typical 

 L. aureola above described in certain specimens. In about one-half 

 of the Orange Hill specimens and about one-third of the Rose Mount 

 specimens an additional sculptural feature is present. The pe- 

 riphery of the last whorl is raised into a series of points or tubercles, 

 by the thickening of one or more of the peripheral lirse where they 

 are crossed by the transverse oblique wrinkles which are present in- 

 all specimens of this species examined. This structure is exactly 

 comparable to the development of the granulate sculpture on L. 

 granulosa which has been described. A careful examination of the 

 young of typical L. aureola from some fifteen localities shows that 

 while the oblique transverse wrinkles are common to all of them, 

 these do not produce any granulation on the periphery, so that this 

 is not, as in the case of the dwarfed races of L. granulosa, a "rever- 

 sion" or the effect of the individual's maturing at what is normally 

 a young stage, but actually a new sculptural character which has 

 developed in these Montego Bay forms. It only appears distinctly 

 on the last whorl, the tubercles becoming stronger after the periphery 

 emerges from the suture, but it may be present on the preceding 

 whorl also, as the corrugations or wrinkles are found well developed 

 on both the last and next to the last whorls. When well developed, 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail.; 



the granulations continue out to the Hp ; sometimes they only appear 

 in the middle part of the last whorl and become obsolescent towards 

 the lip. They are well shown and their connection with the trans- 

 verse wrinkles is apparent in the figs. 22, 25, 26, Plate I. This 

 peripheral granulation is thus characteristic of certain of the speci- 

 mens taken at Orange Hill and Rose Alount, Montego Bay, and is 

 not found in the normal L. aureola from any other locality examined. 

 The forms possessing it might be designated by a varietal name, as 

 montegoensis, and it is probably the beginning of a new species, 

 or what would become one if the forms continued to live at the 

 Montego Bay localities, which, unless the settling up of the country 

 continues, is likely to be the case, they having survived the advance 

 of civilization for perhaps a century. But it may be a variation 

 not due directly to the aridity of the country produced by the 

 clearing of the land — not referable to change of environment alone — 

 but to hyhridity, and this might work out in future generations. 



We thus have two species, each developing a dwarfed race under 

 similar conditions of environment, but in which the causes for the 

 development of the new sculptural characters which accompany 

 the dwarfing are probably not referable to the same causes. 



The Variation in Size. 



The amount of the variation in size may be graphically shown 

 by plotting the dimensions of the forms to scale in the manner 

 adopted in a previous paper.^ These dimensions are given below. 



Variation in size in Lucidella granulosa C. B. Adams. — The 

 forms of this species compared in fig. 1 are from Somerset, Somerset 

 Road, Benmore, Kendal Road one mile north of Mandeville, and the 

 Sturridge place, three miles southeast of Mandeville. Those from 

 Somerset and Somerset Road are the largest, those from Kendal 

 Road and the Sturridge place the smallest. The Benmore specimens 

 lie between these two, but nearer to the larger group, so that the plot 

 shows two groups as to size, with a gap between the two that is 

 not entirely bridged over by the Benmore specimens. The normal 

 forms, represented by the group of larger specimens from these 

 localities, show some variation in the sculpture, but are in general 

 as described above for the forms from Somerset and Somerset Road, 

 with a nearly non-tuberculated periphery on the last whorl. Only 



* A. P. Brown, Variation in some Jamaican Species of Pleurodonte, Proc. 

 A. N. S. P., 1911, pp. 117-164 figs. 2-14. 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



13 



a few of the Somerset specimens show the keeled and tuberculated 

 periphery that is characteristic of the Swift Collection specimens, 

 of which a description is given above. These are, however, of normal 

 size for the species, as may be seen from the plate (figs. 4, 5, 7-9). 

 A few individuals from Benmore show this tuberculated periphery 

 also. 



Contrasted with this smooth condition of the last whorls, which 

 may be considered normal for L. granulosa as found near Mandeville, 

 is the much larger proportion of tuberculated-keeled forms found 



Fig. 1. 



-Lucidella granulosa. Comparison of the dimensions of the forms from 

 five different localities. 



among the specimens from the two localities where the forms are 

 dwarfed. At the Sturridge place, about one-half of the specimens 

 show peripheral granules on the last whorl, though these tend to be- 

 come obsolescent as the lip is approached. In the Kendal Road 

 specimens somewhat over two-thirds show this granulation, and in 

 many cases it extends out to the lip, a much smaller proportion 

 showing this granulation of the peripheral lira becoming obsoles- 

 cent and dying away as the lip is approached than in the case of 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the Sturridge specimens. The reduction in size in L. granulosa 

 in these localities is accompanied by a shght reduction in the size 

 of the embryonic- shell or protoconch, which is easily observed 

 in all cases in the adult shell. The minor diameter of the protoconch 

 averages 0.47 mm. in the specimens from the larger group, the 

 average being for the Benmore specimens 0.444 mm., for the Somerset 

 Road specimens 0.47 mm., and for the Somerset specimens 0.50 mm.; 

 as against an average of 0.416 mm. for the Kendal Road specimens 

 and 0.408 for the Sturridge place forms. There is thus a dwarfing 

 that is not alone individual, but a racial dwarfing. These characters 

 are well shown by a comparison of the dimensions by whorls which 

 is given in fig. 2. A series of characteristic specimens were selected 

 from each locality and each individual measured by whorls with an 



^ ' 



Fig. 2. — Lucidella granulosa. Comparison of width and height by whorls. 

 Sm. = Somerset, S. R. =Somerset Road, B. =Benmore, St. = Sturridge, 

 K. R.= Kendal Road. 



eyepiece micrometer on the microscope, using of course a mechanical 

 stage to adjust the specimen. The measurements by whorls and 

 the minor diameter of the protoconch are plotted in the figure. 

 This last character hardly shows well at this scale, the differences 

 being small. The comparison by whorls brings out the fact that 

 in spite of the dwarfed character of two of these races, but little 

 reduction in size is shown up to the third whorl and the difference 

 in size only becomes pronounced at the fourth whorl. All of these 

 forms, whether normal or dwarfed, possess at least five whorls, 

 so that up to this point the growth rate is strictly comparable. 

 The marked falling off in size of the two dwarfed races at this point 

 is to be attributed to the environment alone. The still more marked 

 falling off in diameter as shown in the last whorl is partly due to a 

 reduction in the number of whorls in the dwarfed races, this falling 

 from the maximum of somewhat over six whorls in the larger forms 

 from Somerset, Somerset Road, and Benmore to between five and six 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



for the two dwarfed races from Sturridge's and Kendal Road, although 

 even at these two localities the whorls may reach six in some cases. 



Variation in size in Lucidella aureola (Fer.). — The forms of 

 this species compared in fig. 3 are from Somerset, Santa Cruz Road 

 and Orange Hill, Montego Bay; and to these has been added a series 

 from the A. N. S. P. old collection labelled simply "Swift Col- 

 lection," and recorded as from "Jamaica" without any definite 

 locality. These divide at once into two groups, of which the Somerset, 



Fig. 3.— -Lucidella aureola. Comparison of the dimensions of the species from 

 four different localities. 



Swift Collection, and Santa Cruz Road lots are larger, the Montego 

 Bay lot is smaller. It will be seen, however, that a single specimen 

 from the Santa Cruz Road series approaches the Montego Bay 

 specimens in size, being of less diameter than any of this Orange 

 Hill (Montego Bay) series. The Swift Collection series are all 

 proportionately higher than those from Somerset, which otherwise 

 they compare well with in size. The Santa Cruz specimens lived 




16 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan. 



in the open fields and in walls along the roadside, their only cover 

 being the walls or the low vegetation of the fields, and they are 

 all smaller than the Somerset and Swift Collection series. The 

 one exceptionally small specimen was adult, so far as development 

 of the lip was concerned, and in size would correspond to Pfeiffer's 

 variety which he calls L. aureola minor, being even smaller than his 

 dimensions for that form. But while it compares in size with the 

 Montego Bay forms, it is not at all like them in sculpture, resembling 

 the normal L. aureola of the island generally. It is evident, then, 

 that the normal L. aureola may vary in size in occasional individuals 

 down to that of the dwarfed or "runt" race found near Montego 

 Bay. This last race is a composite one, in about one-half of the 

 Orange Hill specimens and one-third of the Rose Mount specimens 

 a distinctive sculpture characterizes the forms. This has already 

 been described above. The minor diameter of the protoconch is 

 also somewhat less than in the normal forms of this species, this 

 dimension varies from 0.55 mm. in the Somerset and Swift Col- 



Fig. 4. — Lucidella aureola. 



Comparison of the width and height by whorls from 

 four different locahties. 



lection specimens to 0.50 mm. in the Santa Cruz Road specimens 

 and 0.45 mm. in those from Montego Bay. 



A comparison of the dimensions of L. aureola by whorls is given 

 in fig. 4, where these protoconch diameters are plotted along with 

 the heights. It will be seen that the diameters by whorls do not 

 show much variation in the four lots of specimens examined until 

 the third whorl is passed, but a marked falling off in the diameter 

 of the Santa Cruz Road and the Montego Bay specimens commences 

 with the fourth whorl, becomes still more pronounced in the fifth 

 whorl and culminates in the last whorl. As in the case of L. granu- 

 losa, there is a reduction in the number of whorls in the adult stage 

 in the case of the dwarfed Montego Bay forms which accentuates 

 the diminution in diameter after the fifth whorl. The number of 

 whorls is of course larger in the larger specimens from Somerset, 

 the Swift Collection lot and the Santa Cruz Road specimens, being 

 generally over six whorls, whereas the specimens from Montego Bay 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



range from five to five and three-tenths whorls, and in rare cases 

 one may reach five and one-half whorls. As in the case of L. granu- 

 losa, the reduction in size is accompanied by a reduction in the number 

 of whorls, and the animal matures at an earlier stage of shell develop- 

 ment than is the case in the larger normal forms. The small speci- 

 men from Santa Cruz Road which approximates in size the Montego 

 Bay specimens had only five and three-tenths whorls, as they have, 

 and a few other Santa Cruz Road specimens, which are small, run 

 about five and seven-tenths whorls. 



The Causes of the Variation in Size and Sculpture. 



In the case of the variation of the two species herein described 

 it is plain that we have to deal with two different kinds of variation: 

 (1) A reduction in size from the normal type and (2) a change of 

 sculpture. The cause of the change of size is the same in both 

 cases and has already been stated. The reduction in size is undoubt- 

 edly brought about by the drier and more arid environment which 

 retards the growth of the individual; superimposed upon which is 

 the regular periodicity of climatic changes due to the changing 

 seasons, which induces the development of the reproductive organs 

 at a given time in the year, without much regard to the size the in- 

 dividual has attained. Thus the forms living under arid conditions 

 will have onl,y reached the beginning of the sixth whorl (or passed 

 the completion of the fifth whorl) when the enforced aestivation 

 brought on by the dry season commences. During the dry season 

 all of these snails are more or less inactive, and during this resting 

 stage the genitalia are developed. The lip probably commences 

 to develop about the same time. Forms living under optimum 

 conditions have reached the beginning of the seventh whorl when this 

 occurs; they will have an extra whorl as compared with the forms 

 living under arid conditions, which would have had many less 

 feeding and growing days, and which latter, no doubt, have passed 

 through many short periods of aestivation during their period of 

 growth, which was frequently interrupted by the dry spells between 

 showers. Probably from the repeated aestivation periods that these 

 dwarfed forms must pass through, there has been produced an 

 actual decrease in the size of the embryo, as is indicated by the re- 

 duction in the size of the protoconch; and this may mark the fixing 

 of the small race, even though their environment may change; 

 but this dwarfing of the embryo is not needed to explain the reduction 

 in size. 

 2 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The change of sculpture which accompanies the reduction in 

 size is to be differently explained in the case of each species. In 

 the one case, that of L. granulosa, it has been shown to be directly 

 connected with the reduction in size, which in turn is brought about 

 by the loss of a whorl. The sculpture in this case is that of the 

 young shell up to the beginning of the sixth whorl (up to 5.3 whorls 

 generally), and is a necessary accompaniment of the loss of a whorl. 

 In the case of normal forms in which this sculpture exists, as in the 

 occasional specimens from Somerset or the Swift Collection speci- 

 men of L. granulosa, this sculpture seems to have persisted up 

 to the end of the sixth whorl; and, as pointed out, it may be an 

 ancestral character which is becoming obsolescent. But it has been 

 rejuvenated in these dwarfed forms by the process known as rever- 

 sion. 



The case of the change of sculpture in the dwarfed forms of 

 L. aureola is different. Here we are not dealing with a character 

 which exists in the young stages and is simply disclosed by the 

 leaving off of a whorl, as in the last case, but with a new character 

 of which no trace is to be found in the young of the normal species. 

 It may be an adaptation in response to the change of environment 

 or it may be due to the effect of hybridity. It is here that the evi- 

 dence is incomplete. 



It is not known whether the other form that would likely hybridize 

 with L. aureola occurs (or has occurred) at Montego Bay. I mean 

 the species L. granulosa. In a large collection made at Montego 

 Bay in 1910 I did not encounter this species, nor is it found in 

 Henderson's list® as being found at this point. It might be found 

 in some of the deposits of semi-fossil shells that occur near Montego 

 Bay, but while I examined these, I did not find any specimens of 

 L. granulosa. If it existed at Orange Hill and at Rose Mount pre- 

 vious to the clearing of the land it would probably die out, as this 

 species requires more cover than is to be found in the logwood-planted 

 pastures where the Montego Bay race of L. aureola is now living. 

 And during its extinction it might very conceivably have mixed 

 with the L. aureola, which thrives well in grass lands elsewhere in 

 the island. The hybrid thus produced would be likely to have a 

 tuberculated .periphery. And the hybrid living with a normally 

 sculptured, pure race of L. aureola would tend through hybridity 

 to change back to the normal sculpture of this latter species. 



« J. B. Henderson, Nautilus, VIII, 1894, pp. 1, 19, 31. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



On the other hand, the variation may be a response to change of 

 environment, the animals becoming adapted to arid conditions. 

 Of course, this adaptation is evident as regards the reduction in size, 

 but it is not yet known that animals living with deficiency of moisture 

 necessarily become more or differently sculptured. The chief 

 effect of this aridity would be to reduce the moisture of the body, 

 and this may conceivably produce an increase of sculpture. Re- 

 duction of moisture followed by an increase of moisture tends to induce 

 proliferation. This has been noted by Loeb^ in the case of the eggs 

 of the sea urchin. When newly fertilized eggs are placed in hyper- 

 tonic sea water for three or four hours and then brought back into 

 normal sea water, they divide into from six to sixteen cells in about 

 ten minutes, and in some cases even into about forty cells inside 

 of twenty minutes. The reduction of moisture in the egg was here 

 sufficient to inhibit cell division, but not enough to prevent nuclear 

 division. When put back into normal sea water, a most powerful 

 streaming of the protoplasm was observect. This streaming seemed 

 to occur around the chromosomes and fragments of nuclear matter 

 as centres. At length each knob or projection formed by the 

 streaming became a separate cell. The effect of the hypertonic 

 sea water (made by adding salt to normal sea water) was to with- 

 draw water from the cell. Putting the egg back into normal sea 

 water added water to the cell. Estivation must result in with- 

 drawal of water from the protoplasm, and may proceed to the point 

 of gelation. Addition of water to the protoplasm after such aesti- 

 vation, might readily result in proliferation as a result of the irregular 

 nuclear division produced during the aestivation period when cell 

 division could not occur. The irregular thickening of the shell 

 that forms the peripheral tubercles and other increase of sculpture 

 is of the nature of a proliferation of the shell. This is conceivably 

 due to the irregular cell division produced by aestivation, which in 

 turn is preceded by nuclear division without accompanying cell 

 formation during the aestivation period. Normally a cell dividing 

 produces two daughter cells, but under this fluctuation of the water 

 content the number of daughter cells may be from six, eight, etc.; 

 or M = 2D may become M = 4D (or 6D or 8D, etc.). 



Boveri^ has shown that the conditions which bring about cell 

 division seem to depend upon a ratio between the mass of the 

 chromosomes to the mass of protoplasm being established, and occurs 



' Loeb, Jour, of Morphology, Vol. 7, p. 253, 1892. 

 8 Boveri, Zellen Studien, Heft 5, Jena, 190.5. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



when the ratio chromosomes to protoplasm reaches a certain con- 

 stant. Increase of the mass of the chromosomes retards cell division, 

 which does not occur until the mass of the protoplasm increases 

 also. The material for the growth of the chromosomes is furnished 

 by the protoplasm, from its "reserve material," according to Sachs. 

 So cell growth consists in the transformation of protoplasmic into 

 chromatin material in the nucleus until a definite ratio of P : C = k 

 is reached, when division occurs. The mother cell just before divis- 

 ion consists of nC-j-P = M. After division M divides into 2D 

 each being nC'-r-P'. These daughter cells then grow to the size 

 and ratio of the mother cell, or until nC'-i-P' becomes nC-^P, 

 when division may again occur. Starvation produces a reduction 

 in the amount of protoplasm and retards the development of the 

 chromosomes. ^Estivation will cause reduction in the amount of 

 protoplasm and retard cell division. J. Sachs was the first to point 

 out that in each species the ultimate size of the cell is a constant 

 for each organ and that wfiere two individuals differ in size, the differ- 

 ence is in the number and not the size of corresponding cells. 

 Amelung, a student of Sachs, confirmed this by actual count. But 

 it seems probable that diminution in the amount of protoplasm 

 may be accompanied or followed by a reduction in the mass of the 

 chromosomes and reduction in the size of the nuclei, and as the ratio 

 C-i-P is constant for cell division, then C-j-P = M by reduction of 

 mass of both C and P to C and P' becomes C'-i-P' = M', a smaller 

 cell. It is in this way that the observed reduction in size of the 

 embryonic shell or protoconch in these dwarfed forms of the two 

 species of Lucidella here considered is to be explained. For this 

 reduction in size of the protoconch must accompany a reduction 

 in the size of the egg, and it is probably the establishing of a new 

 equilibrium resulting in the reduction in size of the egg (among 

 other things) that is the explanation of the observation that condi- 

 tions unfavorable to the growth of the animal are not unfavorable 

 to its reproduction. 



Explanation of Plate I. 



It i s to be noted that figures 1-6 are enlarged somewhat more than the rest, 

 being magnified 4.5 times, while all the other figures (7-26) are magnified 3.4 

 times, and these being all on the same scale, the relative sizes may be directly 

 compared. Figs. 7-10 are normal; 11-15 are dwarfed; figs. 16-21 are normal; 

 22-26 dwarfed. 



Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Lucidella granulosa C. B. Adams (Swift Collection). Showing 

 the tuberculated and keeled periphery characteristic of the specimens in 

 this lot. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Fig. 4. — Lucidella granulosa C. B. Adams. A form with the last whorl smooth, 



from Somerset. 

 Fig. 5. — A specimen of the same species from Somerset, which shows the 



tuberculated keel as in figs. 1-3. 

 Fig. 6. — A specimen of the same species from Somerset Road colony with nearly 



smooth last whorl, but showing the tuberculation on the earlier whorls. 

 Figs. 7-9. — Three specimens of L. granulosa from Somerset, with smooth last 



whorl. Figs. 7 and 9 show two common color patterns. 

 Fig. 10. — A specimen of L. granulosa rom Somerset Road, with smooth last 



whorl. 

 Figs. 11, 12. — Two of the dwarfed forms ot L. granulosa from the Sturridge 



place. Both show the granulated periphery of the last whorl. 

 Figs. 13-15. — Three of the dwarfed specimens of L. granulosa from the Kendal 



Road colony. They all show the granulated periphery. 

 Figs. 16-18. — Lucidella aureola (Fer.) from Somerset, showing the rather large, 



normal form of this species as found at this locality. 

 Figs. 19-21. — Lucidella aureola (Fer.) from the Santa Cruz Road, showing the 



smaller size of the specimens from this station as compared with those from 



Somerset. 

 Fig. 22. — Lucidella aureola (Fer.) from Orange Hill, Montego Bay; the form 



with tuberculate periphery. 

 Figs. 23, 24. — Lucidella aureola (Fer.) from Orange Hill, Montego Bay, the shell 



seen from above and from the under side. 

 Figs. 25, 26.^ — Lucidella aureola (Fer.) from Orange Hill, Montego Bay, each 



showing the tuberculate periphery of the form for which the varietal name 



of Montegoensis is suggested. 




22 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF MARINE SHELLS. 



BY E. G. VANATTA. 

 Metula amosi n sp. 



Shell solid: elongate: fusiform: cream-white, with slight indication 

 of a subsutural, a peripheral, and a ^^^de basal bro^Miish spiral band. 

 Spire elevated, conical, vertically costate with spiral strise in the 

 interstices. Suture impressed, irregularly crenulate. Whorls con- 

 vex, 5 remainmg. Body whorl sculptured with 41 vertical costse 

 crossed by 33 raised spiral lines, with a slight tubercle at the point 

 of intersection. The first three spirals below the suture are strongest, 

 the others becoming closer and finer at the periphery and then wider 

 towards the base. There are 12 spirals on the wide, short, slighth' 



Figs. 1, 2.—Me(ulo omosi Van. 



recurved anterior canal, not crossed by the vertical costse. Aperture 

 elongate, about one-half the length of the shell. The outer lip is slightly 

 arcuate, thickened externally, internally polished and a little crenu- 

 late, white at the slightly refiexed edge, internally cream-colored 

 with a fllesh-colored band along the outer margin and in the basal 

 third. The parietal wall and columella moderately concave, covered 

 by an adnate smooth callus, cream-colored tinged with flesh-color 

 at the base. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



Altitude 40, diam. 13, aperture alt. 22.5, diam. 7 mm. 



Locality. — Panama. 



The types are in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences, 

 number 107,159, collected by Mr, S. N. Rhoads. This species is 

 wider than the Japanese Metula elongata Dall and has a longer 

 aperture. It differs from Metula gahhi B. and P. in being higher, 

 narrower, more cylindrical, in having the sculpture on the early 

 whorls less compact, base more attenuate, aperture longer, and the 

 columella not so sinuous. 



I take pleasure in naming this species after Dr. Amos P. Brown, 

 one of the authors of Metula gahhi, the Oligocene species which is 

 probably the ancestor of this form. 



HaplococWias swifti n. sp. 



Shell small, umbilicate, turbinate, white, suture deeply im- 

 pressed, spire elevated, whorls 5, very convex, contabulate, the first 

 whorl somewhat eroded, the two following whorls bicarinate, the 

 penultimate and bodj^ whorl more or less tricarinate. The body 

 whorl is sculptured with 24 spaced spiral striae with microscopic 



P'ig. 3. — Haplocochlias swifti Van. 



vertical striae in the interstices. The fourth, sixth and eighth striae 

 below the suture on the body whorl are larger than the others and 

 three or four striae near the umbilicus are closer together. The 

 umbilicus is of moderate size. The aperture is orbicular, peristome 

 continuous, very thick, and broadly refiexed, crenate, parietal 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



callus thick, columella narrow above and broad at the base, bearing 

 a median groove. 



Length 3.92, diameter 3.92 mm. 

 Habitat— St. Thomas, W. I.; collected by R. Swift. 

 Type in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, number 10,292. This species differs from Haplocochlias 

 cijclophoreus Cpr. by having coarser spiral sculpture, by having a 

 more reflexed lip, and by being umbilicate. 

 Vitrinella hemphilli n. sp. PI. II, figs. 1, 3. 



Shell small, depressed turbinate, hyaline, translucent, polished, 

 with indications of irregular growth striae; spire acute, composed of 

 four convex whorls which are slightly concave below the suture. 

 The aperture is large; peristome acute; parietal wall convex, with a 

 very thin callus; columella concave, very narrow; umbilicus per- 

 spective, bordered by a very indistinct angle. 

 Alt. 1.56, diam. 2.5 mm. 



Habitat. — Cedar Keys, Florida; collected by H. Hemphill, in whose 

 honor it is named. 



Types in the collection of the Academy, tray number 10,236. 

 This species has a wider umbilicus than Vitrinella multistriata 

 Ver. and Vitrinella helicoidea Ad., it has a higher spire and more 

 closely coiled whorls than Vitrinella megastoma Ad. and Vitrinella 

 tryoni Bush. 

 Discopsis schumoi n. sp.. PI. II, figs. 2, 7. 



Shell small, white, moderately polished; spire rather acute, 

 depressed conic; suture impressed; whorls three and one-half, some- 

 what convex, sculptured above with a few irregular growth lines 

 crossed by delicate distinct spiral striae which are strongest below 

 the suture and above the periphery. Peripheral carina very strong; 

 base rather flat, sculptured with about twelve radial very broad costse 

 or undulations, crossed by numerous undulated spiral striae. The 

 umbilicus is large, deep, bounded by a heavy, cord-like, overhanging 

 carina, the walls within the umbilicus are concave and smooth. 

 The aperture is transversely sagittate, receding; peristome reflexed, 

 very obtuse, provided with a great prolongation of the peripheral 

 keel, the lip is arcuate above but flattened at the base and concave 

 below the keel; parietal wall broadly triangular, widest above 

 with a very heavy callus which extends forward on the body whorl 

 beyond the aperture and fills the posterior angle of the mouth; 

 the columella is concave, broadly triangular, narrowest above. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Alt. 1.25, diam. 2.47 mm. 



Locality. — Monkey River, British Honduras. 



The types are in the Academy's collection, tray number 76,-581, 

 and were taken from the anchor of a vessel by Silas L. Schumo, 

 in whose honor the species is named. 



This shell differs from Discopsis omalos De Folin by the radial 

 sculpture on the base and the projection upon the outer lip, and has 

 different basal sculpture from Discopsis costulatum De Folin. It 

 differs from Colonia radiata Dall by having no longitudinal costse 

 upon the spire and having a large umbilicus. 



Omalaxis funiculus contracta n. var. PI. 11, figs. 4, 6. 



Shell small, white, somewhat polished; spire flat, bounded by a 

 sharp angle; whorls about three and one-half, sculptured above 

 with about seven or eight engraved spiral lines which become 

 indistinct as they approach the aperture, ten engraved spiral lines 

 are between the edge of the spire and the peripheral keel and eleven 

 between the keel and the umbilicus, these lines and the peripheral 

 carina become obsolete near the aperture. The umbilicus is 

 perspective, funnel shaped, with smooth sides, and surrounded by 

 a sharp carina. The aperture is suborbicular; peristome thick 

 and evenly rounded; basal lip with a triangular callus; columella 

 thick and very oblique; parietal callus ponderous and extending 

 slightly beyond the aperture. 



Alt. 1.04, diam. 1.85 mm. 



Habitat. — Monkey River, British Honduras. 



The type is in the collection of the Academy, tray number 106,125, 

 taken from the anchor of a vessel by Silas L. Schumo. 



This variety is distinguished from Omalaxis funiculus Dall by 

 having a narrower umbilicus. 

 Teinostoma schumoi n. sp. PI. II, figs. 5, 10. 



Shell small, imperforate, white, polished, subspherical, very 

 compact, suture impressed, early whorls rather concave in the middle, 

 with the surface more or less undulate, the penultimate whorl with 

 a spiral groove near the outer suture. The body whorl has the upper 

 surface sculptured with a series of longitudinal undulations and a 

 spiral cord at the edge. The face view shows seven widely spaced 

 very heavy spiral cords, the two at the periphery being smallest. 

 The base is imperforate, showing two of the spiral cords near the 

 edge and a series of radial indentations bounded on the lower side 

 by an engraved line. The umbilical region is slightly indented and 

 provided with a few irregular radial growth lines. The aperture 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



is suborbicular, receding; outer lip rather acute; parietal wall very 

 thick. The columella is very broad and provided with a ponderous 

 callus. 



Alt. 1.51, diam. 2.23 mm. 



Locality. — Porto Barrios and Livingston, Guatemala. 

 The types are in the collection of the Academy, tray number 

 73,483, and were found in mud collected from the anchor of a vessel 

 at both places. 



This species differs from Teinostoma solida Smith by having radial 

 sculpture on the base, by having sculpture on the upper surface 

 and has more spiral costse than Teinostoma hondurasensis and is 

 imperforate. 

 Teinostoma hondurasensis n. sp. PI. II, figs. 8, 12. 



Shell small, polished, blue-white, translucent; spire slightly 

 elevated, broadly conic; suture impressed; whorls four, a little 

 convex, early whorls smooth, with a few indistinct growth striae 

 and a groove following the suture on the penultimate whorl. Body 

 whorl from above rapidly increasing, is smooth, highly polished 

 with a groove near the edge which becomes obsolete towards the 

 aperture. In a face view it shows five spaced subequal spiral cords. 

 The base is umbilicate, with a broad, smooth central area, bounded 

 by a granulate ridge near the parietal wall which becomes a tuber- 

 culate spiral ;?ord and finally a smooth cord at the basal lip. Two 

 other spaced smooth spiral costse are upon the outer part of the 

 base. 



The aperture is suborbicular, receding; peristome evenly arched, 

 moderately thick, slightly interrupted by the terminations of two 

 costse near the base; basal lip thick; columella provided with a broad 

 triangular callus; parietal wall very thick; umbilicus small. 

 Alt. 1.04, diam. 1.75 mm. 



Habitat. — Belize and Monkey River, British Honduras. 

 The types are in the Academy's collection, tray number 76,535, 

 found in mud taken from the anchor of a vessel at both places by 

 Silas L. Schumo. 



This species differs from Teinostoma solida Smith by being white, 

 smaller, umbilicate, and having a different number of spiral cords. 

 It is distinguished from Teinostoma schumoi by being umbilicate 

 and having a different sculpture. 

 Teinostoma bartschi n. sp. PI. II, figs 9, 11. 



Shell minute, discoidal, blue-white, somewhat translucent near the 

 aperture; whorls three and one-half; suture shallow; spire very low 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



and evenly arched, smooth except for a few indistinct radial costae 

 on part of the penultimate whorl and a few very indistinct spiral 

 lines near the periphery. The peripheral carina is very large, 

 separated from the costa below by a wide furrow. In the basal 

 view showing four spiral costse, the one below the keel is subgranu- 

 late near the parietal wall, but smooth near the basal lip. The 

 two costse near the umbilicus are narrower, the growth lines are 

 very indistinct. The umbilicus is wide, angular at the edge and 

 separated from the spiral costae by a broad, smooth area. The 

 aperture is orbicular; peristome subacute, thickened at the termina- 

 tions of three of the spiral ribs; columella concave, narrow; parietal 

 callus moderate. 



Alt. .71, diam. 1.47 mm. 



Locality. — Porto Barrios and Livingston, Guatemala. 



Types in the collection of the Academj^, tray number 76,501, 

 found in mud collected from the anchor of a vessel at both towns. 



This shell differs from Adeorhis beaui Fisch. by having a more 

 depressed spire and unequal spiral costse. It has a wider umbilicus 

 than Teinostoma hondurasensis. Named in honor of Dr. Paul 

 Bartsch, of Washington, D. C. 



Explanation of Plate II. 



Figs. 1, 3. — VitrineUa hemphilli. ^ 



Figs. 2, 7. — Discopsis schu7>ioi. 



Figs. 4, 6 — Omalaxis fimiculus contrada. 



Figs. 5, 10. — Teinostoma schumoi. 



Figs. 8, 12. — Teinostoma hondurasensis. 



Figs 9, 11. — T iinostoma bartschi. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



SOME AUSTRALIAN BEES. 

 BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



In 1904 there were 222 species of native bees known frora Aus- 

 tralia. At the present moment (January, 1913) there are 583, 

 if we include the species described below and 24 others sent for 

 publication but not actually published at the time of writing. 

 Even this comparatively large number must represent but a small 

 minority of the species actually existing, as many districts have 

 never been examined for bees, and every new collection contains a 

 considerable percentage of undescribed forms. The best-explored 

 district is the region about Mackay, Queensland, which was for many 

 years the hunting ground of Rowland and Gilbert Turner. The 

 vicinity of Sydney has furnished a large number of species; many 

 also come from Melbourne and the region round about. Mr. S. W. 

 Fulton has recently collected a most remarkable series of minute 

 bees at Purnong and Croydon, all new. These belong to Prosopid 

 genera, but simulate our American species of Perdita, and probably 

 have similar flower-visiting habits. One (Euryglossina sulphurella 

 Ckll.) is light yellow like certain of our Perdita species, and presum- 

 ably visits some flower of that color; possibly, in Australia, it would 

 be some Mimosa-like plant. 



Australia (including Tasmania) is known to have 47 genera of 

 bees. This number would be increased if we added some of the 

 recent segregates, proposed principally by Perkins. The genera 

 Euprosopis and Gnathoprosopis of Perkins seem distinct in their 

 typical members, and I have described species under them; but 

 a perfectly satisfactory dismemberment of Australian Prosopis 

 is hardly possible as yet. It cannot be doubted that eventually 

 both Prosopis and Euryglossa, as represented in Australia, will 

 be divided to form additional new genera. 



The Australian genera may be grouped as follows, the number 

 of species being given in each case: 



(1) Endemic (Precinctive) genera: BinghamieUa (1), Parasphecodes 

 (34), Pachyprosopis (12), Stilpnosoma (1), Meroglossa (15), 

 Callomelitta (2), Trichocolletes (1), Goniocolletes (1), Cladocer- 

 apis (1), Andrenopsis (1), Phenacolletes (1), Anthoglossa (4), 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



Turnerella (2), Eunjglossa (57), Euryglossina (8), Euryglos- 

 sella (1), Euryglossidia (2), Heterapis (3), Hylceoides (4), 

 Neopasiphae (1), Stenotritus (2), Mellitidia (1), Gastropsis 

 (2), Melittosmithia (2), Neoceratina (1), Exoneura (10)/ 

 Le.s<?.s (2), Androgynella (1). It will be seen that these are 

 inainl}' Prosopid and Colletid bees. 



(2) Genus common to Australia and New Zealand, but not found 



elsewhere: ParacoUetes (70). 



(3) Genus common to Australia and the Austromalay Islands: 



Palceorhiza (12). 



(4) Genera widely distributed over the Eastern Hemisphere, but not 



American : 



(a) Genera with very distinct Australian species: Saropoda (2). 



(b) Genera with Australian species closely allied to those of 

 Asia: AUodape (4), Nomioides (1), Crocisa (11), ^ Thaumato- 

 soma (1). 



(5) Genera widely distributed in the Eastern and Western Hemi- 



spheres: 

 (a) Genera with very distinct Australian species: Prosopis (95), 



Halidus (55), in part, Megachile (89). 

 (6) Genera with Australian species closely allied to those of Asia : 



Sphecodes (1), HaUctus (55), in part, Nomada (1), Nomia 



(36), Xylocopa (1), Anthophora (15), Lithurgus (3), Dianthi- 



dhim,(l), Ccelioxys (4), Trigona (8). 



By way of contrast, it is of interest to compare the bees of Formosa. 

 I recently studied a large collection from that island, and did not 

 find a single endemic genus or subgenus. 



Exoneura angophorae Cockerell. 



Females collected by H. Hacker at Sunnybank, Brisbane, Septem- 

 ber 12j 1911, represent extreme variations of this species, as follows: 



(a) Var. hackeri, nov.; white clypeal band extremely broad, its 

 upper half broadest, and covering the whole width of the clypeus; 

 lateral face marks quite large, triangular; first three abdominal 

 segments with broad dusky bands, gently concave posteriorly, the 

 bands bending more or less cephalad at sides. (Queensl. Mus. 3.) 



(b) Var. obliterata, nov.; clypeal band dusky, narrow, very obscure; 

 no lateral marks; first abdominal segment nearly all black except 

 the hind margin (broadest in middle) and broad hind corners; 

 band on second segment reduced to three dusky patches; no band 

 on third. (Queensl. Mus. 1.) 



iThe Syrian E. libanensis Friese belongs to Exoneuridia Ckll., 1911. 



2 Crocisa pantalon Dewitz, from Porto Rico, is said by Friese to belong to 



Epeolus. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



These look like different species, but are apparently only extreme- 

 variations of E. angophorce, or perhaps a closely allied species, which 

 will take the name E. hackeri. 

 Exoneura hamulata Cockerell. 



The clypeal mark in the females varies, and the best character 

 to distinguish this species from E. bicolor Smith is the broad face. 

 Mr. G. Meade- Waldo has kindly compared my determination of 

 E. bicolor with Smith's type, and finds it correct (allowing for a 

 certain amount of variation in the clypeal stripe); he adds, "the 

 type has the face conspicuously narrowed below." I have received 

 E. hamulata labelled bicolor, and Friese evidently had hamulata 

 as bicolor, since in his description of E. froggattii he remarks that 

 bicolor has the inner orbits parallel. Females of hamulata before me 

 have the following data: Windsor, Victoria (French; Froggatt Coll. 

 161); no locality (Nat. Mus. Vict. 103); Armidale, N. S. W., Nov. 

 27, 1900 (Froggatt 163); Moss Bay, Dec. 13, 1893 (Froggatt 158). 



In Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., Oct., 1910, I described a male Exoneura, 

 evidently either bicolor or hamulata, I thought probably the latter. 

 I now conclude that it was bicolor, as I have before me a different 

 male (Stradbroke Island, Oct. 2, 1911, H. Hacker; Queensl. Mus. 2), 

 which seems to be hamulata. It is 8| mm. long, with very red wings, 

 and differs from the male now supposed to be bicolor by the pale 

 face marking being confined to a large triangular cream-colored 

 clypeal patch, one side of which covers the upper end of the clypeus. 

 The first two abdominal segments and the middle of the third are 

 black. The flagellum is distinctly dark reddish. It would seem 

 from the large size and very red wings that this cannot be the male 

 of E. angophorce; yet it is a rather suspicious circumstance that two 

 female Exoneura from Stradbroke Island, Queensland (Sept. 27, 

 1906, Froggatt, 145, 201), belong to a large (7 mm. long) variety cA 

 E. angophorce, having the characteristic abdominal markings of 

 the hackeri type; one has a narrow ferruginous clypeal stripe, the 

 other has it practically obsolete; there are no lateral marks. The 

 hair on the hind legs is reddish (more or less coppery) rather than 

 black. The inner orbits strongly converge below. These females 

 are certainly not bicolor, and of course they are entirely distinct 

 from hamulata; they are, however, surely conspecific with the 

 Brisbane forms of angophorce. It is possible that the Brisbane 

 and Stradbroke Island forms represent a distinct new species, 

 which will then take the [name E. hackeri. It remains for local stu- 

 dents to decide this question. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



Exoneura bicolor Smith. 



Females are labelled thus: King I., Tasmania (J. A. Kershaw, 

 Nat. Mus. Vict. 207); Wattle Flat, N. S. W. (Froggatt 164); no 

 locality (D. F. Hill, Nat. Mus. Vict., 183); N. Mells. (F. P. Spry, 

 Nat. Mus. Vict. 254); Croydon {S. W. Fulton, Nat. Mus. Vict. 

 175). The last two enumerated have the red of the abdomen 

 very bright and clear. 

 Exoneura concinnula n. sp. 



9. Length 4| mm.; like E. froggattii Friese, but smaller, the 

 clear reddish wings with the stigma and nervures clear light ferru- 

 ginous; femora black, red apically, tibiae and tarsi chestnut -red; 

 abdomen red without markings; head small; face wholly black; 

 labrum red; hair of hind tibiae and tarsi light red. 



Habitat —New South Wales, Dec. 1, 1910 (Froggatt 108). I 

 had taken this for E. froggattii, and consequently regarded the true 

 froggattii as new; but my specimen of E. froggattii, described below, 

 is one of the original lot and undoubtedly genuine. In Friese's 

 account, 27 Nov. should apparently read 27 July. 



Exoneura fultoni n. sp. 



9. Length 5| mm.; head and thorax shining black (including 

 tubercles) ; none of the ordinary pale face-marks, but lower part 

 of clypeus broadly suffused with red; mandibles red except at base 

 and apex; legs bright chestnut-red, including femora; hair on outer 

 side of hind tibiae and tarsi dark fuscous; wings dilute reddish, 

 stigma clear ferruginous; abdomen red, sometimes dusky at apex, 

 not at all banded. 



//a6ito^.— Croydon, Australia (S. W. Fulton; Nat. Mus. Vict. 

 238, and 176 in part). Readily known by the small size, red femora, 

 and absence of a cream-colored clypeal stripe. 



Exoneura froggattii Frie.se. 



9. Length 6 mm.; head and thorax shining black; face narrow, 

 wholly without light markings; tubercles black; flagellum thick 

 reddish beneath; wings hyaline, slightly grayish, stigma and ner- 

 vures dusky red; femora black, red at apex; tibias and tarsi bright 

 chestnut-red; abdomen rather slender, duskj^ apically, without bands; 

 hair on hind tibiae and tarsi entirely light red. 



//aft/toi.— Thornleigh, N. S. W., ''in cavity of Ethon gall," July 

 27, 1895 {Froggatt 160). A specimen with reddish wings, apparently 

 a slight variety of this species, is from Croydon (Fulton; Nat. Mus. 

 Vict. 176 in part). 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The following key will facilitate the determination of Exomura 

 females with red abdomen: 



With lateral face-marks; hind legs with much black hair 1 



Without lateral face-marks 2 



1. Clypeal band narrow angophorce Ckll. 



Clypeal band very broad angophorce hackeri Ckll. 



2. Small species (none over 7 mm.) with no light clypeal band, 



though there may be a reddish suffusion 3 



Usually larger species, never very small; nearly always with 

 a well-marked light clypeal band 5 



3. All the femora red .fultoni Ckll. 



Femora wholly or mainly black 4 



4. Length 5-6 mm.; stigma dusky .froggattii Friese 



Length 4| mm.; stigma clear fulvous concinnula Ckll. 



5. Face broad below; clypeal mark usually with a hook-like proc- 



ess on each side above hamulata Ckll. 



Face narrowed below 6 



6. Larger and paler; hair on outer side of hind tibiae mainly pale; 



abdomen not at all banded bicolor Smith 



Smaller and darker; hair on outer side of hind tibiae black 



angophorce Ckll. 



Size of bicolor but dark, the abdomen with evident dusky bands 



angophorce var. from Stradbroke L, and var. ohliterata Ckll. 



from Brisbane 

 Haliotus leai Cockerell. 



Females; Blackwall Range, March 30, 1911 (Wild; Queensl. 

 Mus. 28) Woodend, Victoria (French; Froggatt Coll. 97) ; Brisbane, 

 Nov. 11, 1905 (Froggatt, 151). Male; Kelvin Grove, Brisbane, 

 Nov. 27, 1911 (Hacker; Queensl. Mus. 45). The male, not before 

 known, is more slender, about 6| mm. long; clypeus with a broad 

 transverse pale yellowish band, which has a large broadly triangular 

 median extension above; lower edge of clypeus dark; antennae very 

 long, black, the flagellum crenulate beneath; coxae and trochanters 

 dark; femora, tibiae and tarsi red, anterior femora with large dusky 

 shades in front and behind, middle femora with slight dusky bands 

 near base; basal hair-bands of abdominal segments pale and poorly 

 developed; apex broadly truncate, bright chestnut-red. 

 Binghamiella antipodes (Smith). 



Warburton, Australia (Spry; Nat. Mus. Vict. 253). 

 Callomelitta picta Smith. 



Tasmania (A. M. Lea; Nat. Mus. Vict. 209). 

 Meroglossa desponsa var. kershawi n. var. 



9 . Scutellum with a yellow spot at each anterior corner; supra- 

 clypeal mark higher. 




1913, J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



Habitat. — Two specimens in the National Museum of Victoria 

 (168, 169), from the collection of William Kershaw; locality not 

 given. Mr. Kershaw lived in Melbourne. 



Euryglossa carnosa n. sp. 



9 . Length 8 mm., broad and robust; head and thorax black, 

 with the following parts bright chrome-yellow; clypeus (except 

 ferruginous lower edge, and two black spots on upper part), a small 

 mark on lower part of supraclypeal area, lateral face-marks (filling 

 space between clypeus and eye, and continued upward as large 

 broad lobes, bending away from orbit, on upper part of front), 

 tubercles and broad upper border of prothorax (broadly notched by 

 black above in middle), small squarish mark behind tubercles, 

 broad anterior lateral corners of mesothorax, scutellum (except 

 two black marks on anterior margin), and postscutellum. Labrum 

 red; mandibles slender, bidentate, yellow at base, red beyond, black 

 at apex; maxillary palpi long and slender; face broad; scape entirely 

 bright yellow; flagellum short, bright ferruginous beneath; front 

 and mesothorax dullish, sparsely punctured; tegulse and plate at 

 base of wings bright yellow; wings clear; the dark red-brown stigma 

 not very large; lower side of first s.m. strongly sinuate; recurrent 

 nervures meeting the transversocubitals; the very broad second 

 s.m. with upper side oblique; marginal cell obliquely subtruncate 

 at apex; end of first t.c. to end of second on marginal a slightly 

 greater distance than end of second t.c. to end of marginal; legs 

 black as far as same distance beyond middle of femora, beyond 

 that bright yellow; hind spur with very long spines; abdomen very 

 broad, black, with the hind margins of the segments dark brown, 

 and the bases of segments 2 to 4, except at sides (4 dusky also in 

 middle) broadly dull pale pinkish ferruginous; apex with black hair. 

 Habitat. — Purnong, S. Australia {S. W. Fulton; Nat. Mus. Vict. 

 150). A species of the group of E. aurantifera Ckll. and E. geminata 

 Ckll., but entirely distinct by the peculiar abdomen. 



Euryglossa nigrocserulea n- sp. 



9. Length about 9 mm.; robust, head and thorax pure black, 

 abdomen dark blue, with the hind margins of the segments black; 

 legs black, the tarsi reddish at apex; tegulse piceous or black; wings 

 hyaline, faintly brownish, stigma dark red-brown, nervures sepia; 

 caudal fimbria black. A species of the group of E. depressa Sm. 

 and E. subsericea Ckll., to which it is very closely allied. It differs 

 from Smith's description of depressa by the narrow facial fovese. 

 3 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the fuscous hair on vertex, the flagelknn fulvous beneath (except 

 at base and apex), hair on inner side of tarsi creamj^-white ; abdomen 

 dark blue instead of green. [A female without locality (Vict. Nat. 

 Mus. 104), which I provisionally refer to E. depressa, is narrower 

 than our insect and has much darker wings ; the dark green abdomen 

 has the same texture and scattered punctures. The space between 

 the facial fovea and the eye is smooth, shining and almost without 

 punctures, contrasting with the adjacent dull and granular front, 

 this apparently being the condition rather indefinitely described 

 by Smith.] Compared with E. schomburgki Ckll., E. nigroccerulea 

 differs by the entirely black front, blue abdomen, black labrum, 

 much darker flagellum, sides of front without strong punctures, 

 dark tegulse, wings not reddened, nervures and stigma much darker, 

 apical fimbria black. Compared with E. suhsericea, the new species 

 is larger, face and thorax considerably broader, mesothorax more 

 closely and strongl}^ punctured, second submarginal cell considerably' 

 longer, area of metathorax not so perfectly smooth and shining. 



■Habitat.— Croydon, Australia, 2 9 {S. W. Fulton; Nat. Mus. Vict. 

 89, 99). One is dated "11. 1. 09." 

 Euryglossa tenuicornis n. sp. 



cf. Length about 8 mm.; moderately robust, black without 

 light markings, the mandibles red subapically and the hind margins 

 of the abdominal segments dark brown; eyes dark reddish; head 

 and thorax densely and quite coarsely punctured; face and lower 

 half of front with thin, long white hair; clypeus densely punctured, 

 but shining; scape ordinary, black; flagellum very greatly elongated, 

 slender, fulvous except the last two joints and the apex of the one 

 before, which are black, the apical joint shining, more or less flat- 

 tened, but only very slightly broadened; mesothorax and scutellum 

 shining between the very dense punctures, those on the scutellum 

 larger than on the mesothorax; area of metathorax minutely granu- 

 lar; tegulse rather large, subtranslucent pale brown; wings dusky, 

 nervures piceous, stigma redder; venation normal for Euryglossa; 

 b.n. falling far short of t.m.; lower side of first s.m: strongly curved; 

 second s.m. elongated, receiving first r.n. some distance from its 

 base; second r.n. on inner side making an angle much greater than 

 a right angle where it joins the s.m.; legs black, with thin pale hair, 

 the knees and the ends of joints more or less reddish, anterior tibiae 

 ferruginous in front; abdomen dullish, minutely roughened; venter 

 flat. 



Habitat.— Fumong, S. Australia, 36" (^S. W. Fulton; Nat. Mus. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



Vict. 134, 135, 137). Entirely unique by the very peculiar antennae, 

 which approach the condition found in Thaumatosoma, a genus of a 

 quite different family. The bee is not much like the ordinary species 

 of Eurijglossa, and perhaps should form the type of a distinct genus. 

 Euryglossa sinapina n. sp. 



cT". Length about 6| mm.; black and bright lemon-yellow, the 

 thorax with thin, long pale hair; mesothorax, and the broad abdomen 

 above, black without markings. Very close to E. sinapipes Ckll., 

 with the description of which it agrees, except as follows: yellow 

 mark on hind border of scutellum very small and inconspicuous, 

 but a larger, conspicuous one on postscutellum, both marks inclined 

 to be divided into two; abdomen above pure black, the hind margins 

 of the segments smooth and shining (beneath, the abdomen is 

 much maculated with yellow, and this reaches the extreme sides of 

 segments 4 to 6); eyes pale gray; upper end of lateral face-marks 

 very broadly and obtusely rounded; flagellum pale orange-fulvous, 

 more dusky above with a dark mark above at base; mesothorax 

 shining; legs entirely yellow, except the ferruginous small joints of 

 tarsi; tegulse opaque light-3'ellow, with pellucid spot and anterior 

 margin; nervures and stigma dilute reddish sepia; first r.n. joining 

 second s.m. a short distance beyond its base. The marginal cell is 

 narrowly truncate. 



Habitat.— Fmnong, S. Australia (*S. W. Fulton; Nat. ISIus. Vict. 

 147). 



Euryglossa sanguinosa n. sp. 



9 . Length a little over 8 mm., robust; head and thorax black, 

 with white hair, which is quite abundant on face and front, tubercles 

 and sides of metathorax; face without light markings; clypeus shining, 

 finely punctured; labrum black; mandibles chestnut-red in middle; 

 flagellum bright ferruginous beneath except at base; mesothorax 

 shining, minutely and densely punctured in front and at sides an- 

 teriorly, but on the disk with larger, sparse punctures; area of 

 metathorax shining; tegulae rufotestaceous ; wings hyaline, slightly 

 dusky; nervures and stigma dark chestnut; lower side of first s.m. 

 strongly arched; second s.m. long, receiving first r.n. a considerable 

 distance from base; legs dark rufous, the small joints of tarsi light 

 ferruginous; hind spur coarsely pectinate; abdomen broad, dullish, 

 with a sericeous lustre; first three segments dark green, with the 

 hind margins broadly dark reddish; remaining segments clear ferru- 

 ginous, the fourth with a dusky shade at sides; venter dark to middle 

 of fourth segment. . 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Habitat. — Windsor, Victoria (French; Froggatt Coll. 188). Super- 

 ficially like a miniature E. hcematura Ckll., but the eyes converge 

 below, and the sculpture of the sides of the mesothorax in front 

 is quite different. Also related to E. terminata Smith, but dis- 

 tinguished by the green abdomen, with the fourth as well as the 

 fifth segment red. Also related to E. salaris Ckll., but differing 

 in •color and sculpture. 

 Euryglossa ruberrima n. sp. 



9 . Length about 8 mm., very robust; Vjright terra-cotta red, 

 with the head and pleura black; mandibles black; antennae ferru- 

 ginous beneath, dark above; mesothorax large and convex, with 

 strong sparse punctures; metathorax black at sides, posteriorly 

 and extreme base; abdomen with conspicuous but suffused blue- 

 black transverse shades on fourth and fifth segments, and very slight 

 dusky shades on first to third; apex with fuscous hair; legs red, 

 including coxae and trochanters, but anterior femora piceous except 

 beneath and at extreme apex, middle femora largely darkened, 

 especially behind; hind legs entirely clear red; tegulae rufous; wings 

 strongly reddened. A species of the E. rubricata group; in my table 

 in Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., Aug., 1910, p. 167, it runs to E. rubricata 

 Sm., from which it differs by the dusky, reddened wings, the mandi- 

 bles black with only a red subapical spot, the metathorax largely 

 red, the tegulae dark reddish, and the base of the abdomen entirely 

 red. Compared with E. frenchii Ckll., it differs by the very strongly, 

 though not very densely, punctured clypeus and supraclypeal 

 area, the suture between them wholly dark, the entirely red hind 

 femora, and the apex of abdomen darkened, the dusky color of the 

 fifth segment leaving a pair of rather poorly defined transversely 

 oval red spots. From E. leptospermi Ckll. it differs by the color 

 of the wings, the larger head, the facial foveas not at all turned 

 mesad at upper end, the more sparsely punctured mesothorax, the 

 second r.n. reaching second s.m. a little more distant from its apex 

 than the first from its base. 



Habitat. — Victoria, 1910 (Froggatt, 149). It also carries a label 

 with number 1418. 

 Pachyprosopis haematostoma n. sp. 



9. Length about 6 mm.; rather robust, but head not enlarged; 

 head, thorax, and abdomen shining dark blue; labrum and greater 

 part of mandibles red; flagellum bright ferruginous beneath; cheeks 

 broad; mesothorax with very sparse, excessively feeble and minute 

 punctures; area of metathorax smooth and shining; sides of meta- 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



thorax with thin pale hair; tegulse black in front, dark red-brown 

 behind; wings rather small, clear; b.n. very strongly arched, not 

 nearly meeting t.m.; first r.n. entering first s.m. some distance 

 before its end; second s.m. very narrow, greatly produced above, 

 to an acute angle; legs piceous, slightly metallic, the anterior femora 

 quite blue; anterior knees, tibiae, and tarsi, and all the other tarsi, 

 bright ferruginous red; abdomen feebly sculptured; pygidial plate 

 very narrow. 



Habitat.— Croydon, Australia, 2 9 (S. W. Fulton; Nat. Mus. Vict. 

 236). Quite unique by the uniform dark blue color of the bod3^ 

 Pachyprosopis atromicans n. sp. 



9 . Length about 5 mm.; shining black, with very little hair; 

 tibiae and tarsi bright ferruginous, as also are the knees, extending 

 into a more or less defined stripe on the middle and hind femora; 

 abdomen broad, the lateral hind margins of the segments (especially 

 the second and third) more or less broadly reddish ; mandililes with a 

 ferruginous subapical band; clypeus brilliantly shining, with sparse 

 distinct punctures; scape shining black; flagellum short and thick, 

 clear ferruginous beneath; head not enlarged; mesothorax brilliantly 

 shining, sparsely punctured; scutellum shining and punctured, but 

 postscutellum granular and dull; area of metathorax shining, 

 except at extreme base; tegulse rufous; wings hyaline, stigma dilute 

 sepia, nervures paler, basal nervure yellow; second s.m. broad, 

 but the outer upper angle produced as in Pachyprosopis; recurrent 

 nervures entering second s.m. near base and apex, the first sometimes 

 meeting the t.c, but the second always away from extreme apex 

 of cell; claws with an inner tooth far from tip; hind spur with long 

 spines; abdomen microscopically transversely lineolate. 



cf. Length about 4| mm.; like the female, but the thick flagel- 

 lum is elongated; face whoUj^ black, with thin but conspicuous 

 white hair; red on femora more extended; last two abdominal seg- 

 ments clear red. 



//a6?7fl/.— Purnong, near Murray R., S. Australia, 2 9,16^ (S. W. 

 Fulton; Nat. Mus. Vict. 232, 220, 226); Croydon, Australia, 19 

 (S. W. Fulton; Nat. Mus. Vict. 193). The type is a female from 

 Purnong. Intermediate between Euryglossa and Pachyprosopis; 

 resembling in many ways Euryglossa neglectula Ckll., but especially 

 related to Pachyprosopis nitidiceps Ckll., from which it is known 

 by the shining mesothorax, red tibiae, etc. 

 Frosopis asinella n. sp. 



cf. Length about 5 mm.; black, with the face (lateral marks 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



reaching sides of front), broad short mandibles, the thick flattened 

 scape and second antennal joint in front, all pale yellow; upper 

 border of prothorax, tubercles, anterior and middle femora, apices 

 of hind femora, and all the tibiae and tarsi, bright lemon-yellow; 

 scutellum entirely black; face rather narrow, entirely pale up to 

 level of antennae, Supraclypeal area oval with a truncate base, 

 lateral face-marks ending above in an oblique-sided lobe, the tip 

 of which is on orbital margin about the level of middle of front; 

 front and thoracic dorsum dull, extremely minutely punctured; 

 tegulse with a light spot; wings clear, stigma and nervures dark 

 brown; first r.n. entering apical corner of first s.m. or meeting first 

 t.c. (these alternatives represented by the opposite wings of the 

 type); abdomen short and broad, dullish, very finely punctured, 

 wholly without ventral tubercles; flagellum pale ferruginous beneath. 



Habitat. — Purnong, vS. Australia (S. W. Fulton; Nat. Mus. Vict., 

 197). In my table of Australian Prosopis (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 

 Feb., 1910) this runs to P. primulipida Ckll., but differs from that 

 by the much narrower and paler face, wholly yellow hind tibiae, etc. 

 From other species it is known by the small size, yellow legs and 

 non-tuberculate abdomen. According to the character of the 

 mandibles and scape, P. asineUa falls in the genus Gnathoprosopis 

 Perkins. 

 Prosopis minuscula n. sp. 



cJ". Length about 4f mm., very slender, especially the abdomen, 

 which has the dorsal suture between the first and second segments 

 constricted; black, with the following parts yellow (reddened by 

 cyanide in type), mandibles, labrum, the long clypeus, lateral face- 

 marks shaped like feet on tiptoe (convex and extremely shiny), 

 tubercles, small marks on upper margin of prothorax, apical part 

 of coxae, trochanters, knees, stripe on anterior femora behind and 

 short one in front, anterior and middle tibiae (latter with a blackish 

 spot behind) and less than basal half of hind tibiae; the supraclypeal 

 area, scutella, etc., are black, and the combination of black femora 

 with yellow trochanters is very peculiar; scape yellow in front, not 

 swollen; flagellum long, light fulvous beneath; wings clear, nervures 

 and the large stigma dark brown; first r.n. meeting first t.c; second 

 s.m. about as high as long; abdomen subclavate, broadest near the 

 end. The abdomen is rather coarsely transversely lineolate. 



Habitat.— Croydon, Victoria (S. W. Fulton; Nat. Mus. Vict. 195). 

 Runs in my table nearest to P. primulipicta, which has a much 

 broader face, dark trochanters, etc. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



Prosopis vittatifrons n. sp. 



9 . Length about 4§ mm., rather slender; head and thorax 

 black, with the followmg parts cream-color: mandibles, labrum, 

 clypeus, a broadly triangular supraclypeal mark, lateral face-marks 

 (extending broadly up to beginning of facial fovese, then continued 

 for a short distance as a very fine line between fovea and eye), 

 a broad band on each cheek behind eye, and elongate mark on front; 

 tubercles, with extension to upper margin of prothorax, white; 

 tegulae pellucid; legs pale ferruginous, the hind ones a little stained 

 with dusky; abdomen with the first two segments clear ferruginous, 

 the others dark Ijrown, the hind margins of the third and fourth 

 more or less pallid, or the first two segments may each have a pair 

 of large brown blotches, with the third ferruginous, crossed and 

 largely covered by a large dark cloud; face broad; antennae light 

 ferruginous beneath; mesothorax dullish, microscopically tessellate 

 and punctured; wings hyaline, faintly dusky, stigma and nervures 

 dark brown; the two recurrent nervures meeting the transverso- 

 cubitals; second s.m. a little higher than broad. 



cf. Length a little over 3 mm.; face light yellow (primrose- 

 color) up to level of antennae, with an elongate frontal mark as in 

 female, the lateral marks shaped like a hand with the index-finger 

 pointed; first abdominal segment dark brown, pale ferruginous 

 apically, second the same, the broad red band notched on each side 

 in front, the second segment also red basally; remaining segments 

 dark. 



Habitat.— Furnong, S. Austraha, 29, 2cf (S. W. Fulton; Nat. 

 Mus. Vict. 221, 213, 145). The type is a female.- Runs in my table 

 to P. constrida Ckll., but is easily known by the elongate frontal 

 mark in both sexes; the male constrida has the clypeus, etc., white 

 instead of yellow. 

 Prosopis mediovirens n. sp. 



9 . Length 4-|-4| mm. ; head and thorax dark green, dullish, 

 very finely sculptured, with the following parts creamy-white or 

 pinkish-white; labrum, mandibles, clypeus (except a rather broad 

 dark band down each side, not reaching lower margin), broadly 

 triangular supraclypeal mark, lateral marks (continued as a band 

 above to beginning of facial fovese), small mark on lower part of 

 cheeks, tubercles and an interrupted line on upper margin of pro- 

 thorax ; no frontal mark, no light mark on scutellum ; antennae pale 

 ferruginous beneath; tegulae hyaline, with a white spot; wings clear, 

 the large stigma dark brown, nervures paler; b.n. nearly reaching 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADER^Y OF [Jan., 



t.m.; recurrent nervures meeting transversocubitals; second s.m. 

 a little broader than high; legs very pale yellow or pinkish-white, 

 hind femora dark behind except apically, hind tarsi dark at apex; 

 abdomen piceous, with the hind margin of first segment l^roadly 

 (notched in front sublaterally) , of the second narrowly, and the 

 base of the third, ferruginous; hind margin of third segment more or 

 less pallid. 



cf . Length 3| mm.; light colors of face, prothorax and legs clear 

 lemon-yellow ; face entirely yellow up to level of antennge : supraclypeal 

 mark larger, but upper extension of lateral marks formed as in female; 

 scape yellow in front, not swollen; flagellum light orange-fulvous 

 beneath; legs bright yellow, but the hind legs peculiarly marked, 

 the iemora with the apical two-fifths brown in front, the tibiae with 

 nearly the apical half (except a minute apical spot) very dark browm, 

 the tarsi dark except at base; abdomen with two very broad fulvous 

 bands, each notched on each side in front; venter fulvous. 



Habitat.— Fmnong, S. Australia, 59, 2cf^ (*S'. TI'. Fulton; Nat. 

 Mus. Vict. 227, 161, 215, 235, 230). In my table it runs to 5, and 

 there forms a new section, with mesothorax green. In spite of the 

 different coloration, it seems nearer to P. vittatifrons than to any other 

 described species. The type is a female. 

 Prosopis chlorosoma n. sp. 



9 . Length hardly 4| mm.; head and thorax dark green, varying 

 to black with a greenish tint, scutellum and postscutellum black; 

 the following parts are light yellow (reddened by cyanide in types) ; 

 clypeus except a broad band on each side, not reaching lower margin 

 (hence the light area on clypeus is like a tall hat with the brim 

 turned down); broadly triangular supraclypeal mark; lateral face- 

 marks, forming a band which extends as far as facial foveas; basal 

 half of mandibles (but not labrum) ; interrupted line on upper border 

 of prothorax, and tubercles. Tegulse hyaline with a yellow spot; 

 wings clear, the large stigma and the nervures dark reddish-brown; 

 b.n. nearly reaching t.m.; recurrent nervures meeting transverso- 

 cubitals, or first r.n. just reaching basal corner of second s.m.; 

 second s.m. about as high as broad; femora black, with the knees 

 broadly yellow; tibiae and tarsi yellow; abdomen black. ^lesothorax 

 dullish, very finely sculptured. Antennae pale fulvous beneath. 



Habitat— Croydon, Australia, 7 9 {S. W. Fulton; Nat. Mus. Vict. 

 192, 191). In my table this runs to P. albonitens Ckll., a very differ- 

 ent species, with blue abdomen. This cannot well be the female 

 of P. minuscula. Both have a minutely caneellate area of metathorax. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



but in minuscula the sculpture is deeper, giving a finely pitted effect; 

 P. minuscula also lacks the green color, and has the b.n. considerably 

 more remote from the t.m. 



Prosopis scintilliformis n. sp. 



9 . Length about 4^ mm. ; black, much less robust than P. 

 chlorosoma, the abdomen especially much narrower; head round, 

 the face broad; mandibles pale yellowish, but labrum dark; face- 

 marks confined to a rather narrow yellow band along each inner 

 orbit, reaching a little above level of antennae; flagellum clear 

 ferruginous beneath; tubercles, and an inconspicuous interrupted 

 line on upper border of prothorax, yellow; legs black, with the 

 knees, anterior tibiae in front, base of middle tibiae and nearly half 

 of hind tibiae, as well as all the basitarsi, yellow; wings practically 

 as in P. chlorosoma, except that first r.n. enters extreme apical corner 

 of first s.m.; thorax dullish, the microscopical sculpture peculiar, 

 the mesothorax and scutellum having a fine but deeply cut tessel- 

 lation and scattered punctures; area of metathorax microscopically 

 coarsely cancellate. 



Hahitat. — Croydon, Australia, 1 9 , mounted on a card with three 

 P. cMorosoma (S. W. Fulton; Nat. Mus. Vict. 192). In my table 

 this runs near to P. amicula Sm., a much larger and otherwise 

 different species. It is rather to be compared with the minute 

 P. scintilla Ckll., from which it is readily known by the light tubercles, 

 etc. I suspect that it may be the female of P. minuscula, but with- 

 out better evidence of this it seems best to regard it as distinct. 



Prosopis xanthosphsera n. sp. 



9. Length almost 10 mm.; robust, black, the abdomen faintly 

 greenish, especially toward the apex; markings on head and thorax 

 brilliant chrome-yellow, as follows: a large broad patch on each side 

 of face, shaped something like a turtle's head in profile, obliquely 

 truncate above, very obtusely pointed below; tubercles broadly 

 (but no patch behind); a large round patch on scutellum and post- 

 scutellum, crossed by a black (sutural) line. Mandibles broad, 

 tridendate at apex; ch^peus flattened and minutely roughened in 

 middle, distinctly but not densely punctured; antennae entirely 

 black; front and vertex with coarse black hair; mesothorax dullish, 

 strongly and rather closely punctured; area of metathorax with 

 about the basal third very coarsely corrugated, in complete contrast 

 with the rest, which is without evident sculpture; tegulae black, 

 punctured anteriorly; wings hyaline, very faintly dusky; b.n. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



only gently arched, nearlj' reaching t.m. ; first r.n. entering extreme 

 basal corner of second s.m,, which is elongate, much broader than 

 high; legs black, partly ornamented with silvery- white hair, last 

 joint of anterior tarsi reddened; abdomen shining with rather small 

 but strong punctures, apex with black hair. 



Habitat. — King Island, Tasmania (J. A. Kershaw; Vict. Nat. Mus. 

 206). Runs in my table to P. rotundiceps Sm., but the head is not 

 round, the flagellum is black, and the abdomen is not minutely 

 and closely punctured. 

 Prosopis leucosphaera n. sp. 



9 . Leng-th a little over 9 mm.; robust, black, with the abdomen 

 obscurely dark bluish; clypeus wholly black, dullish, with very 

 shallow punctures; lateral face-marks a sort of dilute orange, large, 

 cuneiform, obtuse below, somewhat obliquely broadly truncate 

 above, antennae black, the flagellum with a contrasting bright 

 ferruginous stripe beneath; lower part of front, broadly elevated 

 in middle; vertex with coarse black hair; mesothorax strongly and 

 ciuite densely punctured; tubercles cream-color; a large circular 

 cream-colored patch on scutellum and postscutellum, crossed by a 

 black (sutural) line; area of metathorax coarsely corrugated at base; 

 tegulse black, punctured in front; wings hyaline, very faintly dusky; 

 first r.n. entering basal corner of the long second s.m.; legs and 

 abdomen essentially as in P. xanthosphcera, but punctures of second 

 abdominal segment smaller and closer. 



Habitat.— Croydon, Australia (S. W. Fulton; Nat. Mus. Vict. 

 167). Closel}' related to P. xanthosphcera, differing not only in 

 color of the markings, but also in the finer punctures of the second 

 abdominal segment. In my table of Prosopis it can be run to 12 

 or to 38, running out at either place' because of the cream-colored 

 patch on the scutella. 



Prosopis chromatica (Cockerell). 



Stradbroke Island {H. Hacker; Queensl. Mus. 66). One male 

 taken Oct. 2, 1911. 

 Prosopis hsematopoda n. sp. 



9. Length about 7 mm.; tile-red and black, like P. lateralis 

 Smith, of which it may be a subspecies. It differs from lateralis 

 by the lateral face-marks, which are orange instead of white; and 

 the femora entirely red, as also the middle and hind trochanters. 

 Tibise and tarsi entirely red; metathorax entirely dull black, the 

 area roughened, and shaped like the profile of a cup; first r.n. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



entering second s.m. a considerable distance from its base. Antennse 

 entirely red. 



Habitat.— >^. Australia (Waterhouse; Nat. Mus. Vict. 149). 



Prosopis proxima Smith, var. a. 



A female from Purnong, S. Australia {S. W. Fulton; Nat. Mus. 

 Vict. 148) differs a little from the type in having the lateral face- 

 marks white without any trace of yellow, and the hind tibia? with a 

 dull white mark at base. The tubercles have the apical half white, 

 and there are two white marks on the prothorax above. The 

 axillae are red. 



Prosopis chrysognatha Cockerell. 



A male from Frankston, Victoria {T. Kershaw, Dec, 1902; Nat. 

 Mus. Vict. 160) seems to have the faintest possible bluish tint 

 on the abdomen, so faint, that it is difficult to be sure of it. If 

 run in my table among the species with metallic abdomen, it goes 

 straight to P. cognata Sm., which is evidently very closely allied. 

 Smith's cognata is from Champion Bay and Swan River, and has a 

 dark blue abdomen. The female described by Smith is to be con- 

 sidered the type. I have described the female of chrysognatha, 

 and it is not identical with cognata. 

 Prosopis alcyonea Erichson. 



Mordialloc (Nat. Mus. Vict. 186). 



Euprosopis elegans (Smith). 



Prosopis elegans Smith. From the National Museum of Victoria 

 come 5 9, 20^ (187, 152, 170, 251, 188, 151, 153); the localities are 

 Croydon {S. W. Fulton), S. Australia {W. Kershaw) and Fern Tree 

 Gully, Victoria (F. P. Spry). The males, without locality, collected 

 by C. F. Hill, have the postscutellum with only a small yellow 

 spot or patch. 

 Euprosopis nodosicornis n. sp. 



cf . Length 6 mm. or a little over, like E. elegans var. sydneyana 

 (Ckll.), with the postscutellum broadly yellow, but differing thus: 

 malar space longer; its length 270 microns; the bright ferruginous 

 flagellum with the last four joints thick, with large irregular tubercles 

 above, the three before these subtuberculate. The abdomen has 

 the first two segments and the sides of the third red, the first segment 

 with a diamond-shaped dusky discal mark. The sides of the meso- 

 thorax are broadly yellow. Stigma bright ferruginous. 



//a6^■ta^— Australia, no locality given (C. F. Hill; Vict. Nat. Mus. 

 155). 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Kegachile semiluctuosa Smith. 



National Museum, Victoria {Murray); 17. W. Australia (F. 

 Duboulay; Nat. Mus. Vict. 6). 

 M. famipennis Smith. 



Tennant's Creek, C.-S. Australia (Field; Nat. :\Ius. Vict. 3, 4). 

 M. monstrosa Smith. 



Glenrowan (Nat. Mus. Vict. 25). The ventral scopa is white 

 with a slight creamy tint. M. cornifera Radoszkowski is larger, 

 but not more than a variety or race, M. monstrosa cornifera. 

 Saropoda bombiformis Smith. 



New South Wales (Nat. Mus. Victoria 129); Toowms, Queensland 

 (Nat. Mus. Vict. 128); Studley Park, a male with alxlomen unusually 

 pale (Nat. Mus. Vict. 122). The Toowms female Avas received by 

 the ]\Iuseum from Mr. Annear. 

 Anthophora rhodoscymna Cockerell. 



Male, more robust than usual, abdomen 6 mm. wide, New South 

 Wales (Nat. Mus. Vict. 118). 



A. pulchra Smith. 



Kelvin Grove, Brisbane, Nov. 20, 1911 (Hacker). 

 Nomia australica Smith. 



Brisbane, Queensland, Nov. 27, 1911 (Hacker). 



N. flavoviridis Cockerell. 



Sunnybank, Brisbane, Jan. 17, 1912 (Hacker). This is a variety, 

 identical with Turner's 999 (Jan., 1898) from Mackay. 



N. muSCOSa Cockerell. 



Kelvin Grove, Brisbane, Nov. 20, 1911 (Hacker); Brisbane, Nov. 

 2, 1908 (Hamlyn-H arris). 

 Lestis bombylans (Fb.). 



Grampians (Nat. Mus. Vict. 126). The front is much broader 

 in male homhylans than in L. aerata; the face-markings in unaltered 

 specimens are bright chrome-yellow, not red. A female from Plenty 

 R. (Nat. Mus. Vict. 127) has dark wings like L. aerata, but it belongs 

 with bombylans. It possibly represents a distinct race. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



NOTES ON CATOSTOMOID FISHES. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The material forming the basis of the present paper is contained 

 in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Cycleptus elongatus (Le Sueur). 



One adult from St. Louis, IVIissouri, and another from Kiskiminitas 

 River, Pennsylvania. 



Genua AMBLODON Rafinesque. 



This name is allowed to supersede Idiohus Rafinesque, now largely 

 in use. Amblodon is based on two species, Amhlodon buhalus Rafin- 

 esque and Amblodon niger Rafinesque. Jordan and Gilbert have 

 designated Amblodon bubcdus Rafinesque ( = in part Aplodinotus grun- 

 niens Rafinesque) as the type,^ and thus Amblodon would become 

 a synonym of Aplodinotus according to their ruling. However, 

 as Amblodon bubcdus Rafinesque, the type species of Amblodon 

 Rafinesque, applies primarily to the small-mouthed buffalo, I 

 cannot accept their contention. 



MEGASTOMATOBUS subgen. nov. 

 Type Sckrognathus cyprinella Valenciennes. 

 Mouth large, oblique, terminal, and upper lip about level with 

 lower edge of eye. Lips thin, nearlj^ smooth. Pharyngeals weak. 



This name is proposed for the large-mouthed buffaloes as Sckrog- 

 nathus Valenciennes, usually attributed to them, has Catostoinus 

 cijprinus Le Sueur (its first species) designated as the type by Jordan 

 and Gilbert,- and is thus a synonym of Carpiodes Rafinesque. 

 (.'^£/'«, large; <TT<i/j.a^ mouth; /5'"j9, buffalo.) 



Amblodon cyprinella (Valenciennes). 



Four from Leavenworth. Kansas; four from Wheatland, Iowa. 



Amblodon bubalus Rafinesque. 



One from Blue River, Indiana; three from near Leavenworth, 

 Kansas; two from ''Western United States"; three without data. 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1877, p. 85. 



2 L. c, p. 89. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Carpiodes carpio (Rafinesque). 



Carpiodes nummifer Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, p. 

 484. Wabash River, Indiana. 



No. 6,645, A. N. S. P., type of Carpiodes nummifer Cope. Wabash 

 River, Indiana. E. D. Cope. 



Also three others from the Wabash River; two from Calhoun, 

 one from Brownsville, and one from St. Joseph, ^Missouri; one from 

 the Platte River, Nebraska; one without data. 



This species has never been recorded from Pennsylvania, as it 

 is not mentioned by Cope, and Bean includes it as hypothetical. 

 Its admission to this fauna is now certain, as two examples from the 

 Beaver River, secured by Cope in 1880, are before me. As it is 

 said to be an inhabitant of our larger western streams or rivers, 

 seldom entering the smaller ones, its extinction, if not already 

 accomplished, is very likely inevitable in western Pennsylvania. 



Carpiodes thompsoni Agassiz 



One from Lake Erie and another from Saginaw Bay, JMichigan. 



I secured an example at Erie, Pennsylvania, on July 5th, 1907, 

 besides examining several others at this place the same time. These 

 examples are the basis of the only positive record for this species 

 in Pennsylvania limits. 

 Carpiodes cyprinus (Le Sueur). 



Seven examples from the Conestoga Creek in Lancaster County, 

 Pennsylvania. It is knowTi to the fisherman at Octoraro, Cono- 

 wingo, and Bald Friar, along the Susquehanna in ^vlaryland, usually 

 as "white carp" or ''Susquehanna carp." 



Carpiodes tumidus Baird and Girard. 



Large example from Tampico, Mexico; two small examples with- 

 out data. 

 Carpiodes difformis Cope. 



Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, p. 480. Wabash River, Indiana. 



No. 22,093, A. N. S. P., type, Wabash River, Indiana. E. D. Cope. 



One from "Port Beido"; one without data. 



This species has not been definitely recorded from Pennsylvania 

 by Cope, though mentioned as likely to occur. One before me from 

 the Youghiogheny River, in western Pennsylvania, and secured by 

 Cope, assures its admission to our fauna. 



Carpiodes cutisanserinus Cope 



Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, p. 481. Kiskiminitas River, 

 western Pennsylvania. 



No. 6,649, A. N. S. P., type. Kiskiminitas River, western Pennsyl- 

 vania. E. D. Cope. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Known only from the type. Though united with Carpiodes 

 difformis by some writers, it is evidently a distinct species, as pointed 

 out by its describer. It differs chiefly in the position of the mouth, 

 which opens in front anterior to the nostrils, though its peculiar 

 snub-nosed physiognomy is very suggestive of Carpiodes difformis. 

 Carpiodes velifer (Rafinesque). 



One from the Wabash River, Indiana, and another from the 

 Blue River, Indiana?. 



Two examples from the Youghiogheny River, secured by Cope, 

 are the basis of the first definite record for the species in that stream 

 in Pennsylvania. 

 Carpiodes selene Cope. 



Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phik., XI, 1870, p. 481. Root River, Michigan?. 



Nos. 6,647 (type) and 6,648, A. N. S. P., cotypes. Root River, 

 Michigan?. E. D. Cope. 



This appears to be a distinct species, and not at all identical 

 with Carpiodes thompsoni, as suggested by some writers. Its 

 affinities are with Carpiodes difformis and Carpiodes cutisanserinus, 

 as pointed out by Cope. 

 Carpiodes elongatus Meek. 



Four examples from Del Rio, Texas. These were WTongly iden- 

 tified by me as Carpiodes grayi Cope.^ 



NOTOLEPIDOMYZON subgen. nov. 

 Type Pantosteus arizonae (Gilbert) Jordan and Evermann. 

 Scales along predorsal region and back all well enlarged, less than 

 twenty between the occiput and origin of dorsal, and contrasting 

 with the small scales in the lateral line. 

 A single species, in the Gila basin. 



(/Voro?, back; ''-s-i9, scale; iJ-o'^dw^ to suck; with reference to the 

 large dorsal scales anteriorly.) 



Pantosteus arizonae (Gilbert) Jordan and Evermann. 



Eight from the Rio San Francisco in the Gila Basin, New Mexico. 



Pantosteus generosus (Girard). 



Two from the Weber River at Echo, and one from Logan, Utah. 

 Also two from "Western United States" (likely Utah?). 



Pantosteus plebeius (Baird and Girard). 



Catostomus plebeius Baird and Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. .Sci. Phila., 1854, 

 p. 28. Rio Membres, basin of Lake Guzman, Mexico. 



No. 6,786, A. N. S. P., co-type of Catostomus plebeius Baird and 



3 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 242. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Girard. Rio Membres, Mexico. J. H. Clark. From the Smith- 

 sonian Institution (No. 168). 



Eight from Watrita Creek, Colorado; five from Nutria and two 

 from Fort Wingate, New Mexico. 

 Pantosteus santa-anae Snyder. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXXIV, 1908, p. 33. Santa Ana River, near River- 

 side, California. 



No. 39,129, A. N. S. P., paratype. Riverside, California. Prof. 

 J. 0. Snyder. 



Pantosteus delpMnus (Cope). 



Two from Provo, Utah. 



Catostomus latipinnis Baird and Girard. 



One from Fort Bridger, Wyoming. 



It may be stated that Eurystomus Rafinesque proposed in 1820 

 is preoccupied by Viellot in 1816, and Acomus Girard proposed in 

 1856 is preoccupied by Reichenbach in 1852. Both Viellot and 

 Reichenbach's names were used for birds. Thus Eurystomus and 

 Acomus are very fortunately erased as subgenera of Catostomus. 



Catostomus retropinnis Jordan. 



One hundred and ten examples from the Yellowstone River at 

 Camp Thorne. 

 Catostomus occidentalis Ayres. 



CaloHlomus labiatus Ayres, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., 1855, p. 32. Stockton, 

 California. 



No. 6,741, A. N. S. P., typical? of Catostomus labiatus Ayres. 

 Sacramento River at Stockton, California. W. O. Ayres. 



A smaller example from the same donor labelled "California," 

 and another from the Russian River in California (Cope). These 

 all agree in the small scales on the belly, between 65 and 70 counted 

 from the gill-opening anteriorly to the ventral origin. The figure 

 of Catostomus occidentalis given^ by Evermann and Meek does not 

 agree with these examples, as both it and .that of Catostomus tsiltcoo- 

 se7isis Evermann and Meek show the breast naked and the scales 

 on the lower part of the abdomen not smaller than those just below 

 the lateral line. 

 Catostomus occidentalis humboldtianus (Snyder). 



Catostomus humboldtianus Snyder, Bull. Bur. Fisher., XXVII, 1907, p. 163, 

 fig. 1. Bear, Eel and Mad Rivers, California. 



Nos. 39,131 and 39,132, A. N. S. P., paratypes of Catostomus 

 humboldtianus Snyder. Mad Creek, Oregon. Prof. J. O. Snyder. 

 " Bull. U. S. F. Com., XVII, 1897 (1898), p. 69. 




1913.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



49 



Catostomus occidentalis lacus-anserinus subsp. nov. 



Catostomus labiatus (part) Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, p. 150. 

 Goose Lake, Oregon. (Not of Ayres.) 



Head 4; depth 4^; D. iv, 10, i; A. iii, 6, i; P. i, 15; V. i, 9; scales 

 66 in lateral line to caudal base, and 4 more on latter; 14 scales 

 above lateral line; 11 scales below lateral line to ventral origin; 

 9 scales below lateral line to anal origin; 40 scales before dorsal; 

 head width If its length; head depth at occiput If; snout 2^; eye 7; 

 mouth width 6; maxillary 3|; interorbital 2f ; first branched dorsal 

 ray 1|; first Ijranched anal ray 1; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 2^; upper caudal lobe 1; pectoral If, ventral If. 



Body elongate, rather robust, sides moderately compressed, upper 

 profile a little more convex than lower, greatest depth at dorsal 

 origin, and all edges convex. Caudal peduncle compressed, its 

 least depth 1| its length. 



Fig. 1. — Catostomus occidentalis lacus-anserinus subsp. nov. 



Head moderate, quite robust, sides compressed with slightly 

 convex surfaces, and upper and lower surfaces equally broad. Snout 

 elongate, conic, upper profile with rather deep depression anteriorly, 

 length about equals width. Eye high, a little elongate or ellipsoid, 

 and centre midway in head length. Mouth small, inferior, snout 

 protruding beyond mandible about half an eye-diameter. Jaws with 

 quite fleshy edges, that of upper somewhat trenchant, and lower 

 broadly obtuse. Disk of lips quite large, length H in snout. Upper 

 lip quite broad, rather thin, slightly protuding in front beyond snout 

 tip, with two or three series of quite large inner papillae, and four or 

 five series of outer and much smaller ones. Lower lip cleft medianly 

 behind nearly forward to symphysis, thick, fleshy, and with about 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY- OF • i [Feb.. , 



seven series of papillae at widest part, median inner ones largest. 

 Tongue thick, little developed, not free, well back. Mandibular 

 rami short, high in mouth. Nostrils large,'^ together, posterior 

 much larger, directly before and close to eye, so that frenum falls 

 about last fourth in snout length. Interorbital broadly convex. 

 Preorbital about 1| in snout, its width about half its own length. 

 Infraorbital much narrower than preorbital. Preopercular ridge 

 obsolete and vertical. Opercle smooth, width about If its depth. 

 Occipital fontanelle well developed, extends forward close behind 

 level of hind eye margins, rather narrow. 



Gill opening extends forward for last fourth in head. Gill-rakers 

 11 + 7, 6, upper ones lanceolate, about ^ length of longest filaments, 

 and all flexible. Filaments 2| in snout. Pseudobranchise much 

 smaller than filaments. Pharyngeal bones rather small, with 

 moderately small teeth below but gradually enlarged above till 

 uppermost 6 much larger, cuneate, compressed, and all uniserial. 

 Isthmus broad. Branchiostegals 3, robust, subequal. 



Scales all smaller and more crowded on anterior portion of body, 

 those on breast much smaller and completely covering that region. 

 Scales on belly much smaller than those on predorsal region of back. 

 No free axillary scaly flaps, scales in those regions all adnate. Body 

 scales distributed in longitudinal series parallel with lateral line. 

 Latter complete, extends in nearly straight course along side medianly 

 and each tube well exposed back nearly to hind edge of scale, where 

 it ends often with a slight notch or emargination. Rays of anal and 

 lower lobe of caudal each with a series of well-spaced tubercles, 

 and scales along lower surface of caudal peduncle also show traces 

 of similar tubercles, possibly one to each scale. 



Dorsal origin very slightly nearer snout tip than caudal base, 

 first branched ray longest or reaching back slightly beyond base 

 of last branched ray, and depressed fin extends 1| to caudal base. 

 Anal inserted about opposite hind end of depressed dorsal, rays all 

 greatly branched distally, and depressed fin extends back slightly 

 beyond caudal base. Caudal moderate, well emarginated behind, 

 and lobes with rounded ends. Pectoral low, rather broad, extends 

 back If to ventral origin. Latter inserted just behind base of third 

 branched dorsal ray, fin 1^ to anal origin and depressed hind edge 

 slightly emarginated. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely dull brownish, lower surfaces pale creamy- 

 brown. Head pale brown, much lighter below. Lips pale like lower 

 surface of head. Iris brassy, pupil slaty. Along side of body 

 medianly from behind gill-opening to caudal base, also largely 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



including lateral line in its course, a distinct dusky streak, and though 

 ill-defined above, and below along its edges, its width equals at 

 least two eye-diameters. At caudal base it is slightly reflected 

 out on base of that fin. Dorsal and caudal otherwise largely tinted 

 with brownish. Other fins pale or more or less tinted like belly. 

 Pectoral slightly brownish above and towards its tip. 



Length 12| inches (caudal tips slightly damaged). 



Type, No. 19,990, A. N. S. P. Goose Lake, Oregon. 1879- 

 E. D. Cope. 



Only known from the above example. It differs from Catostoiuhf 

 occidentalis in the dark lateral streak. The very small scales on thi 

 body from the throat to the ventral origin number about 80 in 

 series, while my examples of C. occidentalis show between 65 and 70 



(Named for Goose Lake, Oregon.) 

 Catostomus snyderi Gilbert. 



Head 4| to 4f ; depth 4f ; D. iv, 10, i; A. iii, 6, i; scales (pockets') 

 about 60? in 1. 1. to caudal base, and 4 more on latter; 12 scales 

 above 1. 1.; 8 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; 31 to 33 predorsal scales; 

 snout 2^ to 2 J in head; eye 6 to 6| ; mouth width 4| to 4^- ; interorbital 

 2|. Gill-rakers 16+10, 8. Scales between front of isthmus and 

 ventral origin 43 or 44. Length 15 and 16f inches. Two examples 

 from Klamath Lake, Oregon, from E. D. Cope, in 1879. 



Cope's reference to Klamath Lake material as Catostomus labiatus^ 

 cannot refer to these specimens. He later states that his largest 

 example is twelve inches long, and gives the following points at 

 variance: "Scales, 10 — 74 — 11; radii D. i, 11; V. 10; head 4.5 times 

 in length; eye 5.5 in head." 



Prof. Snyder has kindly examined two typical examples in Stan- 

 ford University. They are from the upper Klamath Lake. He 

 writes as follows: "Scales in lateral line, to end of last vertebra, 

 74 — 72; scales on base of caudal, beyond the above 3 — 3; scales 

 between isthmus and origin of - ventral, about 40 in one example. 

 The last count is doubtful on account of irregularity in the rows 

 and the poor preservation of the specimens." 

 Catostomus catostomus (Forster). 



Four small examples without data. 



Catostomus warnerensis Snyder. 



Bull. Bur. Fisher., XXVII, 1908, p. 81. Warner Creek, slough.s .outh, 

 and Honej^ Creek, Oregon. 



No. 39,130, A. N. S. P., paratype. Warner Creek, Lake County, 

 Oregon. Prof. J. 0. Snyder. 



"Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 188.3, p. 150. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



The other examples were all obtained by Cope, who records them 

 as Catostomus tahoensis." They include three from Warner's Third 

 Lake, in Oregon, and one from high land between Warner's Lake 

 and Goose Lake; three from Pyramid Lake, Nevada. 

 Catostomus commersonnii (Lac^pMe). 



Catostomus alticolus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1874, p. 138. 

 Twin Lakes, Colorado. 



Nos. 18,729 and 18,730, A. N. S. P., paratypes of Catostomus 

 alticolus Cope. Twin Lakes, head of Arkansas River at 9,500 feet 

 elevation, Colorado, E. D. Cope. 



Also numerous other examples examined, though those which 

 I have already recorded elsewhere are not included in the following 

 list of localities. Boston, Massachusetts; Lake Champlain; Lake 

 Erie; Chadd's Ford Junction, Willistown Barrens, Langford Run, 

 Whetstone Run, Collar Brook, CoUingdale, Fairmount Park, Sandy 

 Run, Willits Run (all near Philadelphia), Saucon Creek, Monocacy 

 Creek and Lime Kiln Run near Bethlehem, and North Branch of 

 Altman Creek in Indiana County, Pennsylvania; Deer Creek near 

 The Rocks, Harford County, Maryland; Roanoke River, Holston 

 River and Stroubles Creek in the Kanawha River Basin, Virginia; 

 Catawba and French Broad Rivers, North Carolina; Cleveland, 

 Ohio; Miami River and Richmond, Indiana; Brook River and 

 Fayette, Iowa; Marshfield and Calhoun, Missouri; "Clopell River" 

 in 1873. 

 Catostomus commersonnii sucklii (Girard). 



Twenty-four examples from Camp Thorne, Yellowstone River 

 (E. D. Cope). These all agree in having the dorsal origin inserted 

 midway between the snout tip and the caudal base, a character 

 virtually expressed in Girard's original description. Compared with 

 numerous examples of Catostomus cofmnersonnii, the dorsal origin 

 was found in all examples examined, except the very young, nearer 

 the snout tip than the caudal base. 



Catostomus ardens Jordan and Gilbert. 



One from Utah Lake (E. D. Cope in 1882), Utah. Nine from 

 Snake River at Springfield, Bingham County (Dr. Henry Skinner 

 in Augu.st, 1906), Idaho. 



Catostomus gila Kirsch. 



One from New Mexico (E. D. Cope in 1872), and three more from 

 the same State in the Rio San Francisco of the Gila Basin, Arizona. 



8 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, p. 152. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



CatOStomus insignis Baird and Girard. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, p. 28. Rio San Pedro, Arizona. 

 No. 6,785, A. N. S. P., type. Rio San Pedro, Arizona. J. H. 

 Clark. From the Smithsonian Institution (No. 169). 



CatOStomus nigricans Le Sueur. 



Many examples from: North Branch of Altman Creek, Indiana 

 County, Pennsylvania; West Branch of Deer Creek, Harford County, 

 Maryland; Roanoke River, Holston River and Sinking Creek, 

 Virginia; Coal Creek, North Carolina; Cumberland River, Ten- 

 nessee; Miami River and Richmond, Indiana; Brook River and 

 Des Moines, Iowa; Marshfield, Missouri. Besides these many 

 others which I have recorded elsewhere. 

 Lipomyzon liorus (Jordan). 



Three from Utah Lake (E. D. Cope in 1882), Utah'. In the 

 original account of Chasmistes Jordan,'' Catostomus fecundus Cope 

 and Yarrow is designated as the type. This action appears to me 

 sufficient for an a priori claim to the definition. The latter was 

 afterwards pointed out to refer to the present genus, with Chasmistes 

 liorus Jordan as its type.^ Chasmistes liorus Jordan was also con- 

 fused originally by its describer^ with Catostomus fecundus Cope and 

 Yarrow. Though this latter species is correctly allowed in Catos- 

 tomus, possibly Chasynistes may stand as a distinct subgenus, being 

 distinguishable from the others by its pointed snout above. In 

 any case Chasmistes brevirostris Cope cannot be included with it, 

 wrongly so suggested by Jordan and Evermann,^*^ as it has been 

 designated^^ the type of Lipomyzon, the only name available for 

 the present large-mouthed forms. 

 Lipomyzon brevirostris (Cope). 



Chasmistes brevirostris Cope, Amer. Nat., XIII, 1879, p. 785. Klamath 

 Lake, Oregon. 



No. 20,959, A. N. S. P., cotype (type) of Chasmistes brevirostris 

 Cope. Klamath Lake, Oregon. E. D. Cope. 



No. 20,522, A. N. S. P., cotype, same data. 



The statement made by Cope that this species differs from Del- 

 tistes luxatus in having the snout " without the hump produced by the 

 protuberant premaxillary spines" is not true. Both of my examples 

 show something of a hump, though much more obtuse and smaller 



'Bull Geol. Surv. Hayden, IV, 1878, p. 417. 



'Jordan and Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 16, 1882, p. 131. 



9 Jordan, I.e., No. 12, 1878, p. 150. 



^°L.c., No. 47, I, 1896, p. 199. 



" Jordan and Gilbert, I.e., No. 16, 1882, p. 131. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



than in Deltistes. Gilbert mentions two Klamath Lake species 

 of Chasmistes. Chasmistes stomias Gilbert^- "has a larger, deeper 

 head, with larger, more obliquely placed mouth, and conspicuously 

 protruding premaxillary spines." The scales are 76 to 82, and thus 

 this nominal form appears more clearly identical with Chasmistes 

 brevirostris than the form he lists under that name.^^ Chasmistes 

 copei Evermann and Meek^* has 80 scales, and is said to differ from 

 Chasmistes stomias Gilbert in "its larger head, larger, more oblique 

 mouth, less prominent snout, and very small fins. The differences 

 in the fins are very great, particularly in the ventrals." In the 

 case of Gilbert's figure of Chasmistes stomias a spawning-fish is shown, 

 thus the ventrals and anal are unusually long. Chasmistes chamher- 

 laini Rutter ^^ agrees with all the forms of Lipomyzon, so far as known, 

 in having the lower lip united at the mandibular symphysis, and 

 differs in having 93 scales. 



PITHECOMYZON subgen. nov. 

 Type Chasmistes cujus Cope. 

 Differs from subgenus Lipomyzon Cope in the large scales, these 

 about 65 in the lateral line (70 to 90 in Lipomyzon). 



(UtOrj/.,,^^ ape, with reference to the short snout; m6C«w, to suck.) 



Lipomyzon cujus (Cope). 



Chasmistes cujus C9pe, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, p. 149. Pyramid 

 Lake, Nevada. 



No. 20,523, A. N. S. P., type of Chasmistes cujus Cope. Pyramid 

 Lake, Nevada. E. D. Cope. It only measures 17 inches, which 

 may be due to the body having been skinned out and shrinking 

 in alcohol. Cope gives the eye as 8^, likely the actual diameter 

 of the eye and not the orbital socket. 

 Deltistes luxatus (Cope). 



Chasmistes luxatus Cope, Amer. Nat., XIII, 1879, p. 784. Klamath Lake, 

 Oregon. 



No. 20,555, A. N. S. P., cotype (type) of Chasmistes luxatus Cope. 

 Klamath Lake, Oregon. E. D. Cope. 



No. 20,960, A. N. S. P., cotype, same data, in poor preservation. 

 Xyrauchen texanus (Abbott). 



Catostomus texanus Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 473. 

 Colorado and New Rivers. 



No. 16,993, A. N. S. P., type of Catostomus texanus Abbott. 



^Bull. U. S. F. Com., XVII, 1897 (1898), p. 5. fig. 



13 L.c. 



» L.c, p. 70, fig. 



15 L.c, XXII, 1902 (1904), p. 147. Eagle Lake, California. 




1913.] - NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. " 55 



"Colorado and New Rivers." Dr. J. L. Le Conte. In locating this 

 interesting dried example, it is now possible to give its correct 

 place among the catostomoids after fifty-two years of oblivion 

 and erroneous identification. It is unquestionably identical with 

 Catostomus cypho Lockington, which was also described in these 

 Proceedings twenty years later/^ and Lockington's specific name 

 is the one adopted by all writers, as it was thought to have been the 

 first ever given to this peculiar fish. Jordan says^'^ "Catostomus 

 texanus Abbott is less clear [than Catostomus chloropteron Abbott], 

 but what there is of specific characterization in the description 

 points to C. teres. The dorsal carination is frequently observed 

 in stuffed fishes in which some flesh is left in the back to shrink in 

 drying, leaving the back 'carinated.'" These entirely erroneous 

 suggestions were made, of course, shortly before the species was 

 supposed to have been discovered by Lockington. Still further 

 confusion is added bj' its inclusion as a synonym of Moxostoma 

 congestum (Baird and Girard) by Jordan and Evermann.'^ The 

 specific name texanus is unfortunate, as the species is not known 

 from Texas. It appears to have been given under the impression 

 that the Colorado River of that State was intended, together with 

 the New River being likely confused with the Neuces River?. 



Besides the above example is another specimen from the Hardy 

 River in Lower CaHfornia, secured by Mr. S. N; Rhoads in February 

 of 1905. It is important as showing to what extent variation 

 may reach in the species. It has 86 scales in the lateral line to the 

 caudal base, and 5 more on the latter. The type shows 73 scales 

 in the lateral line to the caudal base and 4 more on the latter. As 

 both are adult examples, it would appear hardly likely that Xyrauchen 

 uncomphagre Jordan and Evermann is a distinct species, as it is 

 said to have but 81 scales, with other characters apparently varietal 

 or due to age. 



Erimyzon sucetta (Lacepede). 



Moxostoma hennerlyi Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 171. 

 Drj' Creek, Victoria, Texas. 



No. 6,797, A. N. S. P., cotype of Moxostoma kennerlyi Girard, 

 Dry Creek, Victoria, Texas. Dr. C. B. Kennerly. From the 

 Smithsonian Institution (No. 161). 



16 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1880, p. 237. Colorado River at the junction 

 of the Gila. 



1' Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 12, 1878, pp. 167, 169. 

 18 Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, I, 1896, p. 192. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Also an example from Thomasville (J. A. G. Rehn on March 

 25, 1904), Georgia. 



Erimyzon sucetta oblongas (Mitchill). 



Moxostoma claviformis Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 171. 

 Coal Creek, Canadian River, Indian Territory. 



No. 6,798, A. N. S. P., cotype of Moxostoma claviformis Girard. 

 Coal Creek, Canadian River, Indian Territory. H. B. Mollhausen. 

 From the Smith-sonian Institution (No. 165). 



Besides the very large series of examples from numerous localities 

 in the Middle Atlantic States, are others from: Richmond, Virginia; 

 Hicksville, Ohio; Marshfield, Missouri; Fort Smith, Arkansas. 



Minytrema melanops (Rafinesque). 



Ptychostomus pidiensis Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, 

 p. 471. Yadkin River, North Carolina. 



Nos. 6,968 (type) to 6,970, A. N. S. P., cotypes of Ptychostomus 

 pidiensis Cope. Yadkin River, North Carolina. E. D. Cope. 

 These examples are undoubtedly the present species, as they show 

 the air-vessel in two compartments, and the bases of the scales 

 spotted. The adults Cope mentions in his description evidently 

 were not preserved, as they are not in his collections. 



Also one from the Ohio River, one from Indiana, one from Del 

 Rio in Texas, and one from Hartford in Arkansas. The last, a very 

 young example, I wrongly identified as Catostom,us nigricans}'^ 



Forbes and Richardson state^ that this species ranges on ''the 

 Atlantic Slope from New Jersey to North Carolina," though there 

 is no evidence whatever of its occurrence in New Jersey, so far as 

 I know of. Further, in view of the lack of detail, the single record 

 for its occurrence in the Susquehanna River basin may also be 

 questioned. 



Moxostoma anisurum (Rafinesque). 



Ptychostomus velatus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, p. 470. 

 Youghiogheny River, Pennsylvania. 



Nos. 6,954 (type) and 6,955, A. N. S. P., paratypes of Ptychostomus 

 velatus Cope. Youghiogheny River, Pennsylvania. E. D. Cope. 



One from the Beaver River (Cope in 1880), Pennsylvania; one from 

 the Blue River and another from the Wabash River, Indiana. The 

 last example was identified by Cope with the following species, 

 but it has a slightly larger mouth and lips. 



'3 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 243. 

 20 Fishes of Illinois, 1908, p. 83. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



Mozostoma collapsum (Cope). 



Plychosiomus collapsus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, 

 p. 471. Neuse, Yadkin and Catawba Rivers, North Carolina. 



- Nos. 6,949 (type) and 6,950, A. N. S. P., cotypes of Ptychos- 

 tomus collapsus Cope. Neuse River, North Carolina. E. D Cope. 



Also two others "without locality, but probably from the Western 

 States or Great Lakes" (Cope). 



Moxostoma COngestum (Baird and Girard) . 



Four from Del Rio, Texas. 



Moxostoma austrinum (T. H. Bean). 



Three from Rio Verde, Mexico. 



Moxostoma robustum (Cope). 



Ptychostomus robust us Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, 

 p. 473. Yadkin River, North Carolina. 



Head 4f ; depth 3| to 3|; D. iv, 11, i, or iv, 12, i; A. iii, 6, i; V. 

 all I, 8; scales 41 to 45 in lateral line to caudal base, and 3 more on 

 latter; 6 or 7 scales above lateral line; 5 scales below lateral line; 

 15 to 17 predorsal scales; snout 2^ to 2| in head; eye 4; mouth 

 width 4§ to 5|; interorbital 2; length 10^? to 11| inches. No. 

 6,958 and 6,959, A. N. S. P., cotypes? of Ptychostomus robustus 

 Cope. Yadkin River?, North Carolina. E. D. Cope. 



These examples agree with Cope's account in the compressed 

 and rather stout body, moderate head and few dorsal rays. 

 Moxostoma erythrurum (Rafinesque). 



Ptychostomus bucco Cope, Rep. Geol. Surv. Wyom. Hayden, 1870 (1871), 

 p. 437. St. Joseph, Missouri. 



Nos. 6,961 to 6,964, A. N. S. P., cotypes of Ptychostomus bucco 

 Cope. St. Joseph, Missouri. 



Three without data; forty-nine from the Holston River, Virginia; 

 two from the Catawba River and three from the French Broad 

 in North Carolina; twelve from the Blue River and one from the 

 Wabash River, Indiana; one from Sedalia, Missouri; one from Ot- 

 tumwa, Iowa. 



Also a large series of Pennsylvania material from the Youghio- 

 gheny River, Kiskiminitas River and Indiana County at Cowan- 

 shanoc, Elders Run, Grant Township, Home Run in Payne Town- 

 ship, Indiana, Pine Township and Cherry Run. Most of these have 

 been recorded as Moxostoma aureolum, in accordance with subsequent 

 restriction to that by Cope in 1870. An examination of all the 

 material before me, however, appears to justify Cope's conclusions, 

 and for that reason I allow the large-headed species to fall with 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Rafinesque's name. The Ptychostomus hucco Cope is certainly 

 identical with the present species. 



Moxostoma macrolepidotum (Le Sueur). 



Five from the Conestoga Creek in Lancaster County in Pennsyl- 

 vania, and two other examples without data likely were from 

 the same locality?. Also an example in the collection from the 

 Washington Market. 



I neglected to admit this species in my list of Delaware fishes, 

 though Cope had recorded it in 1870 without definite locality. 

 Along the Susquehanna River, in Maryland, it is known to some 

 of the fishermen, though is said to be less common than any of the 

 catostomoids. In Delaware, the fishermen know it along Broad 

 Creek at Laurel and Bethel. 



Moxostoma aureolum listed by Jordan^^ from Carlisle in Pennsylvania 



must be this species. 



Moxostoma lachrymale (Copej. 



Ptychostomus lachrymalis Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, 

 p. 474. Xeuse River, North Carolina. 



Head 4f; depth 3|; D. iv, 11, i; A, iii, 6, i; both V, i, 8; scales 

 43 in lateral line to caudal base, and 3? more on latter; 6 scales 

 above lateral line; 5 scales below lateral line; 16 predorsal scales; 

 snout 2| in head; eye 4|; mouth width 5|; interorbital 2|; length 

 12| inches. No. 6,848, A. N. S. P., type? of Ptychostomus lachry- 

 malis Cope. Neuse River, North Carolina. E. D. Cope. 



This example seems to differ from the preceding, as pointed out 

 by Cope, and may therefore be allowed as distinct. 

 Moxostoma duquesnei (Le Sueur). 



One example from the Youghiogheny River (Cope) and another 

 from a branch of the Big Mahoning Creek in Indiana County, 

 the latter recorded by me as Moxostoma aureolumP 



Following Cope's restriction, this species is allowed distinct 

 and identical with Le Sueur's fish, it being open to doubt that the 

 latter had Placopharynx. Moxostoma duquesnei is thus seen to have 

 more numerous scales in the lateral line than most of the species 

 of the genus. Other small-scaled nominal species, as Moxostoma 

 lesueurii (Richardson)-^ and Moxostoma alleghaniensis Nichols,^* 

 are either identical or very closely allied. 



^'Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 12, 1878, p. 124. 



22 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 47. 



23 Catostomiis lesueurii Richardson, Franklin's Journal, 1823, p. 772. 



21 Bull. Amer. Mus. N. Hist. N. Y., XXX, 1911, p. 275. Pi. 11, fig. 1. Marshall, 

 North Carolina. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



Moxostoma aureolum (Le Sueur). 



In the Cope Collection are one: from Saginaw Bay in Michigan, 

 one from the "Southern States," one from the Wabash River in 

 Indiana, one from the Neuse River in North Carolina, and five 

 from Tennessee. 



As contended by Cope, this species differs from Moxostoma ery- 

 thiirum in the smaller head. All show :' Head 4| to 4| ; depth 3| to 

 3f ; D. usually iv, 12, i, occasionally iv, 11, i; A. iii, 6, i; all V. i, 8; 

 scales 39 to 45 in lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 

 usually 7 scales above lateral line, seldom 6 or 8; usually 5 scales 

 below lateral line, seldom 6; predorsal scales usually 16, sometimes 

 15 or 17, rarely 20; snout 2| to 2| in head; eye 4 to 5; mouth width 



4 to 5; interorbital 2^^ to 2\; length 10| to 18 inches. 



Moxostoma crassilabre (Cope). 



Ptychostomus crassilabris Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. 8oc. Phila., XI, 1S70, 

 p. 477. Xeuse River, near Raleigh, North Carolina. 



Head 4f ; depth 3|; D. iv, 11, i; A. iii, 6, i; both V. i, 8; scales 

 43 in lateral line to caudal base, and 3? more on latter; 6 scales 

 a,bove lateral line; 5 scales below lateral line; 16 predorsal scales; 

 snout 2| in head; eye 4|; mouth width 5|; interorbital 2|; length 

 12^ inches. No. 6,960, A. N. S. P., type of Ptychostomus crassi- 

 lahris Cope. Neuse River, near Raleigh, North Carolina. E. D. 

 Cope. 



Moxostoma breviceps (Cope). 



Ptychostomus hrenceps Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, 

 p. 478. Youghiogheny River, Pennsylvania. 



Head 5|; depth 4; D. iv, 12, i; A. iii, 6, i; scales 42 in lateral line 

 to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 7 scales above lateral line; 



5 scales below lateral line; 16 predorsal scales; snout 2^ in head; 

 eye 4; mouth width 4f ; interorbital 2|; length lOf inches. No. 

 22,104, A. N. S. P., type of Ptychostomus breviceps Cope. Youghio- 

 gheny River, Pennsylvania. E. D. Cope. The anal rays, as sus- 

 pected by Cope, are abnormal, and I have seen similar cases in other 

 examples of the members of the present genus. 



An example from the Neuse River, North Carolina, differs from 

 the above in the following: depth 4^; D. iv, 11, i; snout 2^ in head; 

 eye 3|; mouth width 4|; interorbital 2; length 11| inches. 



SCARTOMYZON subgen. nov. 

 Type Ptychostomus cervinus Cope. 

 Branched dorsal rays 9 to 11, usually 9 or 10. Body long, slender, 




60 ' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



but slightly compressed. Head rather small. E\'e rather large. 

 Mouth moderate. Dark lateral streaks. 



This subgenus differs from the others (Moxostoma and Teretulus) 

 in the much fewer dorsal rays and coloration. The single species 

 lives in swift and rapid streams, about rock pools, in the southern 

 Alleghanies. 



(IxdfjTTj'g, jumper; /j.u^duj^ to suck; as the typical species is known 

 as "Jumping Mullet.") 



Mozostoma cervinum (Cope). 



Plychosiomus cervinus Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2), VI, 1868, p. 

 235, PI. 3, fig. 4. Catawba River, North Carolina. Roanoke River and 

 James River, Virginia. 



Head 4 to 4i; depth 4^ to 5^; D. usually iv, 10, i, frequently 

 IV, 9, I, rarely iv, 11, i; A, iii, 6, i; V. usually i, 8 (both sides), very 

 rarely i, 7 (both sides); scales usually 38 to 44 in lateral line to 

 caudal base, though varies 37 to 47, and 3 more on caudal base; 

 usually 6 scales above lateral line, frequently 5, occasionally 7, 

 rarely 8; usually 5 scales below lateral line, frequently 6, rarely 

 7; usually 15 predorsal scales, often 16, seldom 14, 17, 18 or 19, 

 snout 2i to 2| in head; eye 3j to 4f ; mouth width 3^ to 6; interorbital 

 24 to 3; length 2^ to 6| inches. Nos. 6,920 (type) to 6,925, A. N. S. P., 

 cotypes of Ptychostonius cervinus Cope. Catawba River, North 

 Carolina. Nos. 6,904 to 6,918, A. N. S. P., cotypes, from head- 

 waters of Roanoke River, Virginia. Nos. 6,928 to 6,946, A. N. S. P., 

 cotypes, from headwaters of the James River, ^'irginia. All from 

 Cope. 



Moxostoma rupiscartes Jordan and Jenkins^^ is identical with the 



present species. All its alleged characters of difference are covered 



by the very full series of typical examples noted above. 



Placopharynx carinatus Cope. 



Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, p. 467, figs, (teeth). Lafayette, 



Wabash River, Indiana. 

 No. 22,108, A. N. S. P., type. Lafayette, Indiana. E. D. Cope. 



Five from Beaver River in Pennsylvania (Cope in 1880), also two 



adults likely from the same locality. One without data; nine from 



Cherokee, Iowa; two from Eureka Springs, Arkansas; two from 



Carthage, Missouri. 



" Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1888, p. 353. Carolina and Georgia. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



NOTES ON THE FISHES OF THE CHINCOTEAGUE EEGION OF VIRGINIA. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Early in May of 1912 I visited the town of Chincoteague, where 

 nearly a week was spent studying and collecting fishes for the 

 Academy. Though many of the species met with were abundant, 

 we secured some of interest, and are thus able to offer in this con- 

 tribution the first fairly representative account of the fish-fauna 

 of the region. 



Chincoteague Island is situated at the lower end of the bay of that 

 name, forming in fact the lower inner face of the great, narrow, sandy 

 barrier-beach of Assateague Island, which is now, however, entirely 

 continuous with Ocean City in Maryland and northward. This barrier- 

 beach, at least north of Assateague Inlet, contains no permanent fresh 

 water its entire extent, or for a distance of about thirty miles. Thus 

 Chincoteague Island, its area extending a little over eight miles north 

 and south, with its greatest width a little over a mile, contains the 

 greatest amount of fresh water to be found in this off-shore region. 

 This is in the form of narrow sloughs or ponds, extending north and 

 south, and usually shallow. They are locally known as glades, and are 

 often broken up in places into smaller bodies of water. The larger 

 glades frequently contain purely fresh water throughout the year, 

 though in places they sometimes dry out through drought or other 

 causes. In color the water is usually dark, still, and sluggish, the 

 first character likely due to the numerous bull pines which grow 

 in many places. Such waters naturally support an abundance 

 of life, as minute Crustacea, etc., especially in the pools destitute 

 of fishes. Sometimes a fresh-water glade will be separated from 

 a brackish one having direct egress to the sea, and at the time of 

 high tides the two waters are intermingled. In only one pool of 

 fresh water, though separated by but a few feet of dry land from 

 a brackish-water glade, did we secure fresh-water moUusca and 

 a phyllopod {Ino holmani). This pool was also quite interesting 

 as differing from many others examined, in the great diversity of 

 its animal life, such as water asels, fresh-water amphipods, larval 

 dragon-flies', water-striders, and water-boatmen. We did not find 

 Palcemonetes vulgaris in this locality, though it was common in other 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ^.CADEMY OF [Feb., 



pools on the island, as well as on Assateague. On the latter and on 

 Wallops Island we only found minute Crustacea, and no fresh-water 

 mollusks. The Chincoteague mollusca were identified by Mr. E. G. 

 Vanatta as Lymncea columella, Planorbis alabamensis and Muscu- 

 lium partumeium. XiigvOnly frog met with was Rana pipiens, 

 and these mostly greenish. Bufo americanus was abundant, and we 

 also saw a number of Chelydra serpentina, Kinosternon pensylvanicum 

 and Chrysemys pida. 



Acknowledgment is due to Mr. T. D. Keim, who assisted me in 

 making the collections. 



Mustelus canis (Mitchill). 



Abundant. Chincoteague, Assateague and AVallops. 



Raja ocellata Mitchill. 



Chincoteague and Wallops. 

 Raja eglanteria LacepMe. 



Chincoteague, Assateague and Wallops. This is the most abund- 

 ant skate. 



Acipenser sturio Linnseua. 



Chincoteague. A large one brought in. 

 Pomolobus mediocris (Mitchill). 



Chincoteague and Wallops. 

 Pomolobus pseudoharengus (Wilson). 



Chincoteague, Franklin City and Wallops. 

 Alosa sapidissima (Wilson). 



Chincoteague. Several bushels taken in the pounds. 

 Brevoortia tyrannus (Latrobe). 



Franklin City, Chincoteague and Assateague. A number were 

 infested with Lernecenicus radiatus (Le Sueur), a lernean parasite. 

 These were usually found hanging from the back and protruding 

 through holes they had bored through their host's flesh. Some 

 were found protruding from the dorsal fins, and one which had im- 

 bedded its head under its. host's tongue hung down from the chin 

 like a bifurcated barbel. Among fifty or more examples of men- 

 haden, but few were found free of this parasite, and usually several 

 were on a single fish. 



Anchovia mitchilli (Valenciennes). 



A dead example picked up on Assateague beach. 

 Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). 



Abundant at Chincoteague and Assateague. The most abundant 

 killifish in coves and salt-water bays. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus (Walbaum). 



Chincoteague, Assateague, Wallops. 

 Fundulus luciae (Baird). 



Found only in the fresh regions of still waters, such as are continuous 

 with brackish waters, on Chincoteague. 



Lucania parva (Baird). 



A few found on Assateague and Chincoteague. The former were 

 in high color. 



Cyprinodon variegatus Lac^pede. 



Abundant and in high color on Chincoteague and Assateague 

 Islands. 



Tylosurus marinas (Walbaum). 



One at Franklin City. 

 Menidia beryllina (Cope). 



A few found on Assateague. 

 Menidia menidia notata (Mitchill). 



Common at Assateague and Wallops. 



Mugil curema Valenciennes. 



Young found in brackish pools and ditches on Assateague. 



Gasterosteus aculeatus Linnaus. 



First found on Assateague in a large open glade, filled with duck- 

 weed for several miles in extent. These little fish were found swarm- 

 ing in myriads, and were uniformly about an inch in length. 

 Some had their ventral membranes bright crimson, and many 

 were slightly variable otherwise in color, though most were 

 more or less brassy or golden. All which we secured were 

 of the mailed type. Associated were a few silversides, killifish, 

 rain-water fish, and pursy minnows. The sticklebacks often swim 

 in immense schools and take refuge in the duck grass when disturbed. 

 They are much condemned by persons living on the island who 

 raise ducks, as they are said to cause the death of the young birds 

 in some numbers at times. One man told me he had lost thirty- 

 two young ducks one season, due to the birds swallowing small 

 sticklebacks. Many other complaints were also heard. It seems 

 that in the summer or during drought the small fishes congregate 

 in shallow puddles and being then easily captured they are eagerly 

 devoured by the young ducks. The fish, finding itself a captive, 

 immediately assumes its only defense by locking tighth^ its 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



dorsal and ventral spines, lodging in its captor's throat or wind- 

 pipe with fatal effect. 



On Chincoteague they were far less abundant. 



Syngnathus fuscus (Storer). 



A single example seined at Wallops, where it was hauled ashore 

 with bunches of "sea lettuce," and numbers of Crago septemspinosus, 

 Palcemonetes vulgaris, Chloridella empusa, Eupagurus longicarpus, 

 Ovalipes ocellatus and Callinedes sapidus. 

 Scomber scombrus Linnseus. 



Common off Chincoteague Shoals. Many bushels brought into 

 the town. 



Pomatomus saltatrix (Linnaeus). 



Like the last, though only a few brought in. Small ones at 

 Chincoteague and Franklin City. 

 Poronotus triaoanthus (Peck). 



Very abundant. Chincoteague. 

 Roocus lineatus (Bloch). 



Several small ones at Chincoteague. 

 Morone americana (Gmelin). 



A few large ones at Franklin City. 

 Orthopristis chrysopterus (Linn^us). 



A few at Chincoteague. 



Stenotomus cbrysops (Linnaeus). 



Not many taken at Chincoteague. 

 Lagodon rhomboides (Linnaeus). 

 One at Chincoteague. 



Cynoscion regalis (Schneider). 



Franklin City, Chincoteague, Wallops. Common. 

 Cynoscion nebulosus (Cuvier). 



Chincoteague and Wallops. A few. 



Bairdiella chrysura (Laclpede). 



Common. Chincoteague, Frankhn City and Wallops. 



Scisenops ocellatus (Linnaeus). 



Several large ones at Chincoteague. 



Micropogon undulatus (Linnaeus). 



Very common. Chincoteague, Franklin City and Wallops. 

 Menticirrhus saxatilis (Schneider). 



Common. Chincoteague, Franklin City, Wallops. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Pogonias cromis (Linnaeus). 



One small example at Chincoteague. 



Tautoga onitis (Linnaeus). 



One at Chincoteague. 



Spheroides maculatus (Schneider). 



Very common at Chincoteague, Assateague, Wallops and Franklin 

 City. 



Prionotus carolinus (Linnseus). 



Chincoteague and Wallops. 

 Prionotus evolans strigatus (Cuvier). 



Common. Chincoteague. 

 Lophopsetta maculata (Mitchill). 



Chincoteague, Wallops, Franklin City. 

 Etropus microstomus (Gill). 



One adult of this interesting little fish, which has not certainly 

 been secured outside of New Jersey before, was seined at Wallops 

 beach. Mr. T. M. Milliner, who was with us when this specimen 

 was secured, tells me that it is occasionally taken in Watchapreague 

 Inlet. 

 Paralichthys dentatus (Linnaus). 



Chincoteague, Franklin City and Wallops. 

 Pseudopleurouectes americanus (Walbaum). 



Chincoteague and Wallops. 

 Achirus fasciatus (LacSpede). 



Common at Chincoteague. 

 Astroscopus guttatus (Abbott). 



A large example at Chincoteague. 

 Urophycis regius (Walbaum). 



Several small ones seined at Wallops. 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. 



SOME TYPE-SPECIMENS OF THE AMERICAN CYPRINOID FISHES OF THE 

 GENUS RUTILUS. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



While studying the cyprinoid fishes in the Acadeni}- of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia recently, a number of detailed notes were 

 made on the variation found in the genus Rutilus. The material 

 embraces a number of typical specimens of the American species, 

 most of which have not been critically examined since they were 

 described. Owing to the imperfect nature of the incomplete and 

 unsatisfactory original descriptions, it is hoped that the present 

 contribution will be of value. Few, if any, of the species have been 

 figured, and certainly not from these specimens. 



In searching for sufficient characters to separate the American 

 from the European species generically, I have been unsuccessful. 

 Most of the former show no scaly axillary ventral flaps, though 

 a few exceptions were noted. All the Old World species have this 

 character very evident, as represented in the collection, the pointed 

 scale appearing quite conspicuous. Therefore, while Myloleucus 

 (or Leucos) may eventually be found subgenerically distinct, the 

 elevation of Siphateles to generic rank by CockerelU would seem 

 hardly warranted solely on scale characters. 



Rutilus olivaceus (Cope). Figs. 1-3. 



Leucus olivaceus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, p. 145. Pyramid 



Lake, Nevada. 

 Leucus dimidiatus Cope, I.e. Pyramid Lake. 

 Siphateles vitlatus Cope, I.e., p. 146. Pyramid Lake. 



Head 3| to 4; depth 3| to 5; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i; A, iii, 7, i, 

 rarely iii, 6, i or iii, 8, i or iii, 9, i; scales 50 to 62 in 1. 1. to caudal 

 base+3 or 4, usually 3, on latter; 13 to 15 scales above 1. 1., usually 

 14, frequently 13, seldom 15; 8 to 10 scales below 1. 1., usually 9, 

 frequently 8 or 10; 29 to 42 predorsal scales; snout 3| to 4i in head; 

 eye 3 to 5|; maxillary 3 to 4|; interorbital 2f to 3i; teeth 5 — 5, 

 frequently 5 — 4; length 2| to lOf inches. 



Nos. 19,354 (type) to 19,366, A. N. S. P., cotypes of Leucus oli- 

 vaceus Cope. 



1 Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XXII, 1909, p. 217. 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



67 



Fig. 1. — Rutilus olivaceus (Cope). (Type of Leucns olivaceus Cope.) 



Nos. 19,392 (type) to 19,399, A. N. S. P., cotypes of Leucus 

 dimidiatus Cope. 



Nos. 19,882 (type) and Nos. 18,654 to 18,691, A. N. S. P., co- 

 types of Siphateles vittatus Cope. 



The young differ from the adults in the projecting mandible, 

 large eye, more or less incomplete 1. 1., and nearly straight convex 

 upper head profile. The predorsal scales appear to become more 

 numerous with age. 



Rutilus oregonensis Snyder- is said to differ in'^the teeth, which 



Fig- 2. — Rutilus olivaceus (Cope). (Type of Leucus dimidiatus Cope.) 



2 Bull Bur. Fisher., XXVII, 1908, p. 87. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb. 



Fig. 3. — Rutilus olivaceus (Cope). (Type of Siphaleles . vitlatus Cope.) 



are given as 4 — 5. I find in the above series 38 examples have the 



teeth 5 — 5, and 19 examples have 5 — 4. 



Rutilus thalassinus (Cope). Fig. 4. 



Myloleucus thalassinus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, p. 144. 

 Goose Lake, Oregon. 



Head 3^ to 3|; depth 31 to 4^; D. iii, 8, i, rarely iii, 7, i; A. iii, 

 7, I, occasionally iii, 8, i, rarely iii, 6, i; scales 42 to 50 in 1. 1. to 

 caudal base, usually between 46 and 49+2, rarely 3, on latter; 10 

 scales above 1. 1., rarely 9 or 11; 7 scales below 1. 1., frequently 6, 

 rarely 5; 20 to 25 predorsal scales; snout 3| to 4 in head; eye 3| to 

 7; maxillary 3i to 3|; interorbital 2f to 3f; teeth 5 — 4; length 3j\ 



Fig. 4. — Rutilus thalassinus (Cope). (Type of Myloleucus thalassinus Cope.) 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



No. 19,848, A. N. S. P., type of Mijloleucus thalassimis Cope. 

 It agrees largely with Rutilus bicolor Gilbert.^ The head is given 

 as 3| to 3f, which is a little smaller than in the types of Algansea 

 antica Cope. Gilbert has identified Myloleucus parovanus Cope 

 with this species, though is not followed by Snyder.^ 



Also a series of examples from Klamath Lake and Goose Lake, 

 Oregon (Cope), and "Pyramid Lake, Nevada"? (Cope). The 

 Klamath Lake specimens were all identified by Cope as M. parovanus. 

 Likely the Pyramid Lake example is wrongly labelled. 

 Rutilus anticus (Cope). Fig. 5. 



Algansea antica Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 282. '"Texas." 



Head 2| to 3|; depth 3^ to 3f ; D. in, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales 45 to 

 50 in 1. 1. to caudal base +2 or 3 more on latter; 10 to 12 scales above 

 1. 1.; 7 or 8 scales below 1. 1.; 24 to 26 predorsal scales; snout 3y to 



Fig. 5. — Rutilus anticus (Cope). (Type of Algansea atitica^Cope.) 



4 in head; eye 4 to 5j; maxillary 3| to 4; interorbital 3j\ to 3^; 

 teeth 5—5 or 5—4; length 3|? to 5| inches. 



Nos. 4,911 (type) to 4,913, A. N. S. P., cotypes of Algansea antica 

 Cope. The type locality given as "Texas" is doubtless erroneous, 

 no member of the genus ever having been found there. It is likely 

 these specimens really came from some lake or stream in California, 

 Nevada or Oregon?. Provisionally, they may be distinguishable 

 from Myloleucus bicolor by the larger head, ranging as 2| to 3|. 



3 Bull. U. S. F. Com., XVII, 1897, p. 8, fig. 

 * Bull. Bur. Fisher., XXVII, 1907, p. 86. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Eutilus symmetricus (Girard). Fig. 6. 



Pogonichthys symmetricus (Baird and Girard) Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1854, p. 136. Fort Miller, San Joaquin Valley, California. 



Head 3| to 4; depth 3f ? to 4|; D. usually in, 7, i, rarely in, 8, i; A. 

 Ill, 7, i; scales 52 to 56 in 1. 1. to caudal base+2 to 4 more on latter; 

 12 scales above 1. 1., rarely 13; 7 or 8 scales below 1. 1.; usually 32 

 predorsal scales, rarely 28 or 31; snout 3 to 3j in head; eye 3f to 4f ; 

 maxillary 3 to 3f; interorbital 2f to 3; teeth 5 — 5 or 5 — 4; length 

 3| to 5| inches. 



Nos. 5,330 to 5,333, A. N. S. P., cotypes of Pogonichthys symmetri- 

 cus Girard. Dr. A. L. Heermann. From the Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution (No. 191). 



-Rutilus symmetricus (Girard). (Cotype of Pogonichthys symmetricus 

 Girard.) 



An example from northern California? (Cope) is also identical. 



This species approaches the physiognomy of Leuciscus, and differs 

 at once from all of our American Rutilus in the protruding snout 

 and included mandible. Although Rutter retains Algansea formosa 

 Girard as a synonym^, it differs in the projecting mandible. 



Rutilus formosus (Girard). Fig. 7. 



Algansea formosa Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1850, p. 183. Mercede 

 and Mohave Rivers. 



Head 3| to 3|; depth 3| to 4|; D. usually in, 7, i, frequently 



III, 8, i; A. Ill, 7, I, rarely in, 6, i; scales in 1. 1. to caudal base, usually 



50, frequently 52, sometimes 51 or 47, occasionally 49 or 53, seldom 



48, rarely 46+usually 3, occasionally 4, rarely 2; usually 12 scales 



5 Bull. Bur. Fisher., XXVII, 1907 (1908), p. 137. 




1913.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



71 



above I. 1., frequently 11, seldom 13, rarely 14; usually 7 scales 

 below 1. 1., frequently 8, often 9; usually 25 predorsal scales, fre- 

 quently 24, often 26, seldom 23 or 27, rarely 29 or 30; snout 3i to ^ 

 in head; eye 3^ to 6; maxillary 3 to 4; interorbital 2f to Sf; teeth 

 usually 5 — 4, rarely 5—5 or 4 — 4; length If to 8 inches. 



No. 4,914, A. N. S. P., cotype of Algansea formosa Girard. Mercede 

 River, California. Dr. A. L. Heermann. Smithsonian Institution 

 (No. 196). 



Fig. 7. — Rutilus fonnosus (Girard). (Cotype of Algansea formosa Girard.) 



Also 38 other examples from: Chewaucan (Cope), Warner's Third 

 Lake (Cope), Silver Lake (Cope), Oregon; Mohave River (Hammond), 

 Pose Creek (Heermami), California. 



Seven more examples, though with uncertain data, were likely 

 from the Mohave River in California?. They are not included in 

 the above computations. 



Myloleucus pulverulentus Cope, from Warm Springs, Utah, as 

 represented by a co-type in the collection, is not a Rutilus, and 

 therefore cannot be identified with Pogonichthys symmetricus Girard, 

 as the teeth are biserial. It is likel}^ identical with Leuciscus lineatus 

 (Girard). 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. 



NOTES ON SOME WEST AMERICAN CEPHALOPODS, 



BY S. STILLMAN BERRY. 



As a considerable time has elapsed since the completion of the 

 manuscript for my recent Review of the Cephalopods of Western 

 North America, it is not surprising that several new facts have been 

 brought to notice, while some of those already dwelt upon appear to 

 require reconsideration in the light of recent work by other in- 

 vestigators. Hence the following notes. 



Polypus apollyon Berry 1912. 



It seems fairly doubtful whether all the specimens included with 

 the type of this species in the table of locality data in my report 

 (Berry, 1912a, p. 283) are in reality conspecific with one another 

 or belong to recognizable groups which only a greater abundance 

 of well-preserved adult material than is at present available will 

 enable us to separate. In the meanwhile I am inclined to recognize 

 P. apollyon as distinct from the true P. hongkojigensis Hoyle, 

 a view which, if correct, eliminates the latter species from considera- 

 tion in our fauna. 



Fig. 1. — Polypus apollyon, outline drawing of funnel laid open along the medio- 

 ventral line to expose the funnel organ. X 2. [S. S. B. 81.] 



I take this opportunity to give a figure of the funnel organ 

 of one of the specimens from the Coronado Islands in the collection 

 of the University of Cahfornia [S. S. B. 81]. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



Polypus pricei new species. 



Animal small and rather delicate. Body elongate pyriform, 

 obtusely pointed behind; a decided nuchal constriction separates 

 it from the head; surface everywhere smooth, without visible cirri 

 or papillae. 



Head small, short, flattened, slightly narrower than the body. 

 Eyes very large, rounded, and protruding. Funnel broad, thin 

 walled, truncate at the extremity, the tip reaching but little past 

 the base of the arms.^ 



Fig. 2. — Polypus pricei, inner aspect of right ventral arm. X 2^. [S. S. B. 189.] 



Arms nearly equal, scarcely twice as long as the body; thick 

 at the base, but delicate and tapering rather rapidly to a tenuous 

 extremity; connected at base by a thin hyaline umbrella extending 

 about equally between them all for perhaps a twelfth of their length; 

 along their outer margins it is continued as a very fragile membrane, 

 becoming obsolete considerably before it reaches the tips. Suckers 

 small, little crowded, much elevated, the first five or six pairs but 

 little displaced, so that they still have the appearance of a single row; 

 the remainder clearly biserial (fig. 2). 



Hectocotylus not observed. 



Color of specimens preserved in alcohol a very pale brownish- 

 buff everywhere except the region of the eyeball, the body and 

 head irregularly dotted with small brown chromatophores ; eyeball 

 bluish-black, with a few very large chromatophores superimposed; 

 two alternating longitudinal rows of large light colored chromato- 

 phores decorate the outer surface of each arm. 



1 Owing to the condition of the specimens I am unable to give either a drawing 

 or an accurate description of the funnel organ. The indications are, however, 

 that it is closely similar in outline to that of P. californicus (cf. Berry 1912o, 

 p. 286, fig. .3), although relatively somewhat smaller and more anterior in position. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Measurements : 



Type, 



mm. mm. 



Total length 50 58 



Tip of body to base of dorsal arms 22 23 



Length of mantle, dorsal 18 18 



Length of mantle, ventral 17 18 



Width of mantle 10 10 



Width of neck 7 6 



Width of head across, eyes 9 8 



Length of head 4 5 



Length of right dorsal arm 29 33 



Length of left dorsal arm 29 29 



Length of right second arm 30 35 



Length of left second arm . 31 35 



Length of right third arm 31 33 



Length of left third arm 31 36 



Length of right ventral arm 29 32 



Length of left ventral arm , 29 26+ 



Length of funnel 8 7 



Length of umbrella between dorsal arms 3.5 4 



Length of umbrella between ventral arms 4 4 



{Note. — The arms and umbrella were measured from the edge of 

 the buccal membrane along the inner face.) 



Type.— In the Stanford University Collections [S. S. B. 189]. 



Type Locality. — Off Point Pinos, Monterey Bay, California; 

 four specimens from the stomach of a salmon {Onchorhynchus 

 tschawytscha) ; C. H. Gilbert, June 23, 1911. 



Distrihution. — Although the type and cotypes are the only speci- 

 mens now at hand, I feel little hesitation in referring to the present 

 species a juvenile Polypus in the University of California Collection 

 described by me in a previous paper (Berry, 1911, p. 303), thus 

 extending its known range as far to the southward as Santa Catalina 

 Island. 



Remarks. — P. pricei is most conspicuously characterized by the 

 delicate consistency of its tissues, large eyes, constricted neck, 

 very short subequal arms, short hyaline umbrella, elevated suckers, 

 pale coloration, and elongate pointed body, in outline somewhat 

 recalling that of an Argonauta. Owing to the inadequacy of the 

 material, I am unable to give a proper estimation of its relation- 

 ships with species from other geographic regions, but as compared 

 with all other West American and North Pacific forms, it seems clearly 

 distinct. In the key (Berry, 1912a, p. 271) the present species 

 would fall nearest to P. apollyon {hongkongensis) , but is certainly 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



not the young either of that species or of P. californicus. Despite 

 their smallness, the four specimens are very nearly of a size, and 

 it may be that they are approximately mature. 



The species is named for Dr. George Clinton Price, of Stanford 

 University. 

 Calliteuthis (Meleagroteuthis) heteropsis new species. 



Meleagroteuthis hoylei Berry 1912a, p. 305, text figs. 13-16, pi. 50, figs. 1-3; 



pi. 51; pi. 52, figs. 5-7 (not of Pfeffer 1900, p. 170; 1912, p. 291, pi. 22, 



figs. 1-8). 

 Having recently been able to consult a copy of Pfeffer's great mono- 

 graph of the (Egopsida containing a much more detailed description 

 of his Meleagroteuthis hoylei than had previously been given, together 

 with an excellent series of figures of the same, I am forced to the 

 opinion that my reference of the Albatross Calif ornian specimens 

 to this species was an error and that they represent a nearly allied 

 but unnamed form. As I have already given a careful and full 

 description of these specimens, its repetition is unnecessary here, 

 but it should be added that, as compared with M. hoylei, C. heteropsis 

 differs especially in the following characteristics: 



(1) There is a somewhat greater number of suckers and pads 

 in the fixing apparatus of the tentacles, and these exhibit the fol- 

 lowing differences in arrangement : in hoylei the dorsal series comprises 

 five pads and the same number of suckers in regular alternation, 

 while the ventral and more proximal row beginning at the carpus 

 comprises (according to Pfeffer's figure) 1 sucker, 2 pads, 2 suckers, 

 1 pad, 2 suckers, 1 pad — a very peculiar order indeed; in heteropsis 

 the dorsal series contains 7 pads alternating with an equal number 

 of suckers, while the ventral row commencing at its distal end con- 

 tains a small sucker, then a larger one, then two smaller pads, then 

 two larger suckers, two pads, two suckers, two pads, and two suckers 

 — all nearly in the same line, but occurring in pairs in regular alter- 

 nation. 



' (2) There is no evidence whatever of the presence of cartilaginous 

 tubercles, either along the medio-dorsal line, along the arms, or any- 

 where else. 



(3) The arms are relatively stouter. 



(4) The number of teeth on the horny rings of the sessile arm 

 suckers is much smaller (7-8 instead of 20), and these are apparent 

 only upon the upper half of the ring. 



In some respects the present species approaches the recently 

 described C. asteroessa Chun, but is probably sufficiently distinct. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Chun (1910, p. 170) has united Meleagroteuthis to Calliteuthis 

 Verrill 1880, as a subgenus, a proceeding with which the writer is 

 in accord. 



Gonatus magister new species. 



Gonalus fabricii (?) Berry 1912a, p. 310, pi. 52, fig.s. 1-2; pi. 53; pi. 54, 

 figs. 1-4; pi. 55, figs, 1, 3-7 (not of Steenstrup et al.). 



In the work cited I referred a number of small decapods from the 

 California coast to the widespread Gonatus fabricii, and somewhat 

 doubtfully included with them two large squids from the Puget 

 Sound Region. Since that time, through the kindness of Miss A. L. 

 Massy, I have received a specimen of the true G. fabricii from the 

 Irish coast, and a comparison with this now leads me to consider 

 the Puget Sound specimens, at least, to represent a new species'. 



Owing to the detailed description of these specimens I have already 

 given, it is necessary here merely to give a brief resume of the feat- 

 ures which appear peculiar to them. As compared with the Irish 

 specimen, they are much larger, heavier, and more massive in every 

 way. The fins are over one-half the length of the body, are more 

 obtusely angled, and are scarcely at all produced at the extremity, 

 while at the same time they appear to be thicker, more firmly at- 

 tached to the body, more widely separated, and with less developed 

 anterior lobes. 



The most conspicuous and important difference, however, is to 

 be found in the structure of the tentacular arms, for the clubs are 

 not only differently shaped, but their inner faces are completely 

 clothed by a multitude of fine suckers quite unaccompanied by hooks 

 or even any traces of the same. I have carefully re-examined the 

 specimens on several different occasions and nowhere can find the 

 slightest scars to indicate that such structures might once have 

 been present. In the region -corresponding to their position in G. 

 fabricii, there is not even a bare space ("einer glatten langlichen 

 Central-Flache " of Middendorff) nor do the suckers extend so far 

 down the stalk as in that species. The fixing apparatus is very 

 simple and inconspicuous, comprising some 23-25 small marginal 

 pads alternating with a similar number of suckers on the club proper, 

 besides a number more extending down the stalk. These suckers 

 are all minute, none of them conspicuously larger or otherwise 

 differentiated from the others, and there are no accessory ridges 

 connected with- them as in G. fabricii. The contrast with either the 

 excellent figures of Steenstrup (1881, pi. 1), or the brief though clear 

 description given by Middendorff (1849, p. 515) for his Onychoteuthis 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



kamtschatica, or the specimen sent me by Miss Massy, is throughout 

 very marked. It should be noted that the gross dimensions of 

 Middendorff's specimen correspond very fairly to those of the indi- 

 viduals before me, so that the differences do not seem explicable 

 on the ground of age. 



Type. — Cat. 2,084 of the Invertebrate Series, Stanford University 

 Collections [S. S. B. 88]. 



Type Locality. — Puget Sound, Washington. 



Whether the young specimens taken by the Albatross are true 

 G. fahricii or a young stage of the present species is still a matter 

 of doubt. 



Onychoteuthis banksii (Leach, 1817) F6russac, 1826. 



This species has recently been obtained off Ne^vi3ort, California 

 (Berry, 1912, p. 83, figs. 44-46). I had previously overlooked the 

 fact that Middendorff (1849, p. 516, pi. 12, fig. A) describes a much 

 smaller specimen from Bering Sea as 0. Bergii Lichtenstein. He also 

 mentions an Octopus (Polypus) from the same region — '^vielleicht 

 Oct. gramdatus Lam'k." 



Literature Cited. 



Berry, S. S. 1911. Notes on some Cephalopods in the Collection of the 

 University of California. University of California Publications in Zoology, 

 vol. 8, pp. 301-.310, text figures 1-4, pis. 20-21, Septenaber, 1911. 



1912. On a Cephalopod new to California with a note on another species. 



First Annual Report of the Laguna Marine Laboratory, pp. 83-87, text figures 

 44-48, May, 1912. 



1912a. A Review of the Cephalopods of Western North America. 



Bulletin of the Bureau of Fisheries, vol. 30, pp. 267-336, text figures 1-18, 

 pis. 32-56, July, 1912. 



Chun, C. 1910. Die Cephalopoden. 1. Teil: CEgopsida. Wiss. Ergehn. 

 deutsch. Tiefsee-Exped. Valdivia, vol. 18, 402 pp., 2 pis. and 32 figures in 

 text, atlas of 61 pis. 



VON Middendorff, A. T. 1849. Beitrage zu einer Malacozoologia Rossica. 

 II. Aufzahlung und Beschreibung der zur Meeresfauna Russlands gehorigen 

 Einschaler. Memoires sciences naturelles de I'Academie Imperiale des 

 Sciences (6), vol. 6, pp. 329-.516, pis. 1-12, St. Petersburg, 1849. 



Pfeffer, G. 1900. Synopsis der oegopsiden Cephalopoden. Mitteilungen 

 aus dem N aturhistorischen Museum Hamburg, No. 17, pp. 147-198. 



1912. Die Cephalopoden der Planktonexpedition. Zugleich eineiiiono- 



graphische Uebersicht der CEgopsiden Cephalopoden. Ergebn. Plankton- 

 expedition der Humboldt-Stiftung, Bd. 2, pp. i-xxi, 1-815, atlas of 48 pis. 



Steenstrup, J. J. S. 1881. Professor A. E. Verrils to nye Cephalopodslaegter: 

 Sthenoteuthis og Lestoteuthis. Oversigt over d. k. d. Vidensk. Selsk. Forhandl. 

 1881, pp. 1-27, pi. 1. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



OXYRHOPUS TRIGEMINUS Dumeril and Bibron THE TYPE OF 

 ERYTHROXYRHOPUS gen. nov. 



BY J. C. THOMPSON, SURGEON U. S. N. 



The classification contained in the Catalogue of the Snakes in the 

 British Museum will unquestionably remain our standard for years 

 to come. Nevertheless, when the suborder Serpentes has been 

 critically examined from the standpoint of comparative anatomy 

 along the lines suggested by Cope, there must be changes. 



When dissecting serpents, especially those that are now placed 

 in the larger genera, one sees species grouped that really should be 

 separated. In recording unusual structural conditions, in suggesting 

 new generic names, or in the regrouping of species, the following 

 routine will be observed: The specimens examined will be recorded 

 under the exact specific name employed in the Catalogue of the Snakes 

 m the British Museum, and where a new generic name is established, 

 it will be proposed provisionally, not for immediate use, but awaiting 

 a thorough examination of the subfamily to which it belongs. 



In studying Oxyrhoj)us trigeminus (Dumeril and Bibron) it was 

 found to possess an hemipenis without calyces and with an apical 

 disk. This is a condition widely different from Oxyrhopus cloelia 

 (Daudin) and Oxyrhopus petolarius (Linnaeus), in which the organ 

 has calyces and is without a disk. Two opisthoglyph serpents were 

 previously known with a similar organ. These, Erythrolarnprus 

 cesculapii (Linnaeus) and Philodryas elegans (Tschudi), have been 

 grouped by Cope in the subfamily of Enjthrolamprince } Oxyrhopus 

 trigeminus (Dumeril and Bibron) is believed to be worthy of generic 

 recognition. On the other hand, to alter a name well-established in 

 literature from the time of Dumeril and Bibron, should not be under- 

 taken without grave necessity. In this case the necessity will only 

 arise when the great majority of the Dipsadomorphince have been 

 examined anatomically, and one is in a position to propose a re- 

 arrangement of the species based upon a far wider knowledge of their 

 organs than is at present possessed. 



11900: Cope, Croo., Liz. and Sn. of No. Am., p. 1091. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Oxyrhopus trigeminus Dumeril and Bibron. 



1896: Boulenger, Cat. Sn. Brit. Mus., Ill, p. 104. 



Field No. 4,425. Ceara Mirim, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil. 

 Female; total length 340 mm., tail 55. 



Scales in 19 rows anteriorly and 17 rows posteriorly; the IV row 

 suppressed at the level of the 126th gastrostege on the right and the 

 127th on the left; smooth, with two apical pits; the scales in the 

 outer row are usually without pits, when present there is one situated 

 in the upper half of the scale and near the apex. Gastrosteges 191; 

 anal entire; urosteges 60 pairs. One prse- and two postoculars; 

 temporals 2-3; eight upper labials, the fourth and fifth entering the 

 eye. The pupil is very narrow and vertical. 



Anatomy. — The maxilla bears ten teeth and two enlarged fangs. 



Color. — There are thirteen sets of bands on the body and three 

 on the tail, the tip is black. 



Field No. 4,449. Papery, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil. Female; 

 body 471 mm., tail docked. 



Scales in 19 rows anteriorly and 17 rows posteriorly; the IV row 

 is suppressed at the level of the 120th gastrostege on the right and 

 on the 122d on left side. Gastrosteges 183; anal entire. One 

 prae- and two postoculars temporals 2-3; eight upper labials, the 

 fourth and the fifth entering the eye. 



Field No. 4,402. Papery, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil. Male; 

 body length 437 mm., tail docked. 



Scales in 19 rows anteriorly and in 17 rows posteriorly; the IV 

 row is suppressed at the level of the 118th gastrostege on the right 

 and at the 119th on the left side. Gastrosteges 182; anal entire. 

 One prse- and two postoculars; temporals 2-3; eight upper labials, 

 the fourth and fifth entering the eye. 



Anatomy. — The total length of the hemipenis is 22 mm., it is 

 divided, the length of each quadripenis being 9 mm., the tip reaches 

 to the 12th urostege. The sulcus is divided 6 mm. from the base; 

 each quadripenis terminates in a cordiform apical disk; from the base 

 to the bifurcation of the sulcus the organ is plicate, from this point 

 to the chsk it is spinous. A rudiment of a lung. The heart apex 

 is at the level of the 41st gastrostege. Anteriorly the liver is divided 

 into two lobes, the one on the right side is 8 mm., that on the left 

 24 mm. long; the tip of the longer lobe is at the level of the 51st 

 gastrostege. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



ERYTHEOXYRHOPUS new genus. 



Hypapophyses absent in the posterior dorsal vertebrse. Scales 

 smooth with two apical pits; in species with 19 rows anteriorly 

 reduced to 17 rows posteriorly the IV row is the one that becomes 

 suppressed. Head distinct. Pupil vertical. Maxillary teeth about 

 11 subequal, a short space between them and the two fangs which 

 are behind the eye; anterior mandibular teeth enlarged. A rudi- 

 mentary lung. Hemipenis and sulcus divided, spinous with an 

 apical disk at the termination of each ramus of the organ. 



Type species of this genus is now known as Oxyrhopus trigeminus 

 (Dumeril and Bibron) ; it occurs in the Guianas and Brazil. 



The position of this genus in Cope's classification would be in 

 the Erythrolamprinoe. 



This subfamily of the Dipsadidce may be defined as glyphodonta 

 with the hypapophyses of vertebrse anterior only, hemipenis and 

 sulcus divided, spinous, not calyculate, an apical disk. 



There are three genera all neotropical: — 

 Hemipenis and sulcus bifurcate. 



Disk at the extremity of the sulcus. 



Pupil round Erythrolamprus Boie. 



Pupil vertical Erythroxyrhopus Thompson. 



Disk at one side of the sulcus. 

 Hemipenis with spines in two bands only Lygophis Tschudi. 



The specimens from which the foregoing observations were made 

 are in the Department of Zoology at Leland Stanford Junior 

 University. 



U. S. F. S. Albatross, Dec. 25, 1912. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



March 18. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Three hundred and two persons present. 



The Chair announced the deaths of the follo^ving members: 

 Lewis W. Steinbach, February 10; Theodore W. Morris, February 



15; Roland G. Curtin, M.D., March 15, 1913. 

 The death of Robert Collett, a correspondent, February, 1913, 



was also announced. 



Mr. Edward H. Thompson made an illustrated communication 

 on the ancient ruins of Yucatan and its modern inhabitants. (No 

 abstract.) 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the fol- 

 lowing titles had been presented for publication: 



''Some Australian bees," by T. D. A. Cockerell (February 1). 



"Notes on Catostomoid fishes," by Henry W. Fowler (Febru- 

 ary 1). 



"Notes on the fishes of the Chincoteague River," by Henry W. 

 Fowler (February 1). 



"Some type specimens of American Cyprinoid fishes of the genus 

 Rutilus," by Henry W. Fowler (February 1). 



"Notes on some West American Cephalopods," by S. Stillman 

 Berry (February 5). 



"Descriptions of new species of marine shells," by E. G. Vanatta 

 (January 23-February 19). 



"Description and records of South American Orthoptera, ^^•ith 

 the description of a ncAv subspecies from Clarion Island," by J. A. G. 

 Rehn (March 10). 



"A study of metazoan parasites found in the Philadelphia Zo- 

 ological Garden," by Frederick D. Wiedman (March 12). 



"North border relations of the Triassic in Pennsylvania," by 

 Edgar T. Wherry (March 12). 



Colonel W. C. Gorgas, of Panama, was elected a correspondent. 

 The following were ordered to be printed: 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



DESCKIPTIONS AND RECORDS OF SOUTH AMERICAN ORTHOPTERA, WITH 

 THE DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SUBSPECIES FROM CLARION ISLAND. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



In the following pages are contained the descriptions of one new 

 genus, nine new species and one new subspecies, from locahties 

 extending from Panama and Surinam south to southern Brazil and 

 from Clarion Island in the Pacific Ocean, off Lower California. 

 Much information concerning the variation of certain species and 

 data on the range of others, accumulated from a number of sources, 

 is here presented for the first time. 



By far the greater part of the material here treated is contained 

 in the Hebard Collection, all of the new species being from that 

 series, while a number of interesting forms are from the collection 

 of the United States National Museum. My thanks are due to Mr. 

 Hebard and the authorities of the National Museum for the privilege 

 of studying the material. 



ACRYDIIX.E (Tdliginop Auct.). 



EOMORPHOPUS Hancock. 



1906. Eotnorphopus Hancock, Tetriginse; Genera Insectorum, pp. 31 and 

 37. 



Tj'pe as specified, Amorphopus antemiatiis Bolivar. 



Eomorphopus granulatus Hancock. 



1906. Eomophopus granulatus Hancock, Tetriginse; Genera Insectorum, 

 p. 38, pi. 4, fig.s. 3o-3.5a. [Dutch Guiana.l 



Surinam. [Hebard Coll.] One 9 . 



EUMASTACIN.^. 



PARAMASTAX Burr. 

 Paramastax nigra (Scudder). 



187.5. Mastax nigra Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Xat. Hist., XVII, p. 266. 

 [Eastern slope of the Peruvian Andes.] 



Yungas de la Paz, Bolivia, 1,000 meters elevation. [Hebard 

 CoU.] One cf . 



This specimen is considerably smaller than the measurements 

 given by Scudder and appreciably smaller than those given by Burr,^ 

 but otherwise it is typical of 7iigra. The difference in size may be 



1 Anal. Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., XXVIII, p. 270. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



due to the fact that the specimen in hand is from the most southern 

 section of the known range of the species. 



The fact that the ventral portion of the lateral lobes of the pro- 

 notum is orange-red seems to have been overlooked by previous 

 writers. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 16 . 5"^ mm. 



Length of pronotum 2.3 " 



Length of tegmen 13 .5 " 



Length of caudal femur 13 " 



ACRIDIN.E {Truxalince Auct.). 

 ORPHULA Stkl. 

 Orphula pagana minor (Giglio-Tos). 



Yungas de la Paz, Bolivia, 1,000 meters elevation. [Hebard 

 Collection.] One cf. 



This is the most westerly locality known for the form. 



ORPHULINA Giglio-Tos. 



Orphulina veteratoria Rehn. 



1906. Orphulina veteratoria Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 21, 

 figs. 5 and 6. [Sao Paulo, Brazil.] 



Espirito Santo, Brazil. [Hebard Collection.] One cf . 



This specimen differs from the type in a few details, as the exact 

 curve of the lateral pronotal carinse and the degree of constriction 

 of the frontal costa dorsad and ventrad of the ocellus, but the differ- 

 ences appear to be purely individual. 



FENESTRA Giglio-Tos. 

 Fenestra ensicorne n. sp. 



Type: cf; Espirito Santo, Brazil, [Hebard Collection.] 



AUied to F. bohlsii Giglio-Tos, but differing in the more ascending 



head, the more angulate character of the fastigium when viewed from 



the lateral aspect, the more compressed and more deeply sulcate frontal 



•costa and the much less depressed antennae (except at the apex). 



Size medium; form distinctly compressed. Head with the 



occiput distinctly ascending; interspace between the eyes equal 



to the fastigium in width, the latter trigonal, acute-angulate, the 



margins distinctly elevated and the occiput, vertex and fastigium 



provided with a continuous median carina, which is stronger on the 



fastigium than elsewhere; lateral foveolse strongly linear, expanding 



^ The abdomen is unnaturally compressed and in conseqilence the length is 

 greater than should be the case. 




84 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



Fig. 1. — Fenestra ensicorne n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 3.) 



somewhat caudad; face considerably retreating, the angle of the face 

 and fastigium truncate; frontal costa slightly expanded between 

 the antennae, regularly expanding from slightly 

 dorsad of the ocellus to the clypeal suture, deeply 

 punctate between the antennae, sulcate ventrad, 

 the portion dorsad of the ocellus quite deeply so; 

 lateral carinae of the face distinct, considerably 

 diverging ventrad; eyes subovate, slightly angu- 

 late dorsad and ventrad, moderately prominent 

 when viewed from the dorsum; antennae half 

 again as long as the head and pronotum together, 

 proximal third Avdth the joints distinctly de- 

 pressed and somewhat ensiform in appearance, 

 distal segment depressed, hastate, remaining 

 joints simple, cylindrical. Pronotum somewhat 

 longer than the dorsal length of the head ; cUsk very 

 sHghtly tectate, cephalic margin subtruncate, 

 caudal margin obtuse-angulate with the 'sides of 

 the angle roundly emarginate; median carina 

 distinct, moderately elevated, divided very 

 slightly caudad of the middle, lateral angles of 

 the pronotum not carinate except for limited areas in the vicinity of 

 the cephalic and caudal margins, the form of the lateral angles, as 

 indicated by imperfect carinae, is similar to that of F. hohlsii, being 

 distinctly constricted cephalad of the middle; lateral lobes of the 



Fig. 2. — Fenestra 

 ensicorne n. sp. 

 Dorsal view of 

 head and prono- 

 tum. (X3.) 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



pronotum subquadrate, the veiitrad margin strongl}' sinuate 

 cephalad. Tegmina very slightly exceeding the tips of the caudal 

 femora, inflated, the greatest breadth contained about three and 

 a half times in the length; costal margin with a moderate proximal 

 expansion, apex subobliquely rotundato-truncate ; mediastine vein 

 strongl}^ developed, no intercalarj^ vein present. Interspace between 

 the mesosternal lobes very slightly transverse, the angles of the 

 lobes obtuse; metasternal lobes separated by a narrow longitudinal 

 space. Abdomen moderately compressed; supra-anal plate rounded 

 trigonal; subgenital plate compressed, particularly dorsad, moder- 

 ately acute; cerci simple, terete. Caudal femora slightly less than 

 twice the length of the head and pronotum together, moderately 

 robust, paginse with well-marked scalariform pattern; caudal tibise 

 bearing ten spines on the external margin, eleven on the internal margin. 

 General color of the dorsum olive, the tegmina with a tendency 

 toward burnt umber mesad. Face and clypeus apple-green, labrum 

 whitish; eyes raw umber; antennae burnt umber, clove-brow^i on the 

 terminal segment. Gena? and lateral lobes of the pronotum drab, 

 paler ventrad; pleura pale greenish and umber; ventral surface 

 of the thorax and proximal portion of abdomen shining black, 

 remainder of abdomen vandyke bro^\^l wdth obscure longitudinal 

 bars of blackish-brown disposed as a pair of laterals and another of 

 ventrals, the two parallel ventral bars separated by a very narrow 

 median paler line. Wings with the base Chinese orange. Limbs very 

 pale olive-green, the caudal femora with some weak buff-yellow 

 dorsad and proximad, the genicular region and both ventral faces 

 blue-black, the internal face blue-blackish with several very narrow 

 pale olive-green bars; caudal tibise very dark olive-green with a 

 pale olive-green pregenicular annulus, spines black-tipped. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 20 mm. 



Length of pronotum 4 " 



Greatest caudal width of disk of pronotum 2.7 " 



Length of tegmen 15.8 " 



Length of caudal femur 12.5 " 



The type is unique. 



CEDIPODIN^. 



LACTISTA St&l. 

 Xactista pulchripennis Saussure. 



188-4. L[actista] pulchripennis Saussure, Prodromus CEdipodiorum, p. 143. 

 [Colombia; Porto Cabello, Venezuela.] 



Surinam. [U. S. N. M.] One cf . 



This species has previously been recorded only from Cache, Costa 




86 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



Rica, Colombia (without exact locahty), Bonda, Colombia, and 

 Puerto Cabello, Venezuela. 



9. 



[Hebard Coll.] 



PYRGOMORPHIN^. 



OMURA Walker. 

 Omura congrua Walker. 



Surinam. May-September. [Hebard Coll.] One 

 Obidos, Amazon River, State of Para, Brazil. 

 One d^. 



SPATHALIUM Bolivar. 

 Spathalium paranense n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Parana, Brazil. [Hebard Collection.] 

 Allied to S. sommeri Burmeister and S. hispidum Bruner, but 

 differing from both in the undivided and narrower medio-caudal 

 tubercle of the pronotum, from the former also in the shorter 



tegmina and wings, and from 

 •;\^ // the latter in the less expanded 



/'' pronotum and the more de- 



pressed condition of the tuber- 

 cles, both marginal and discal, 

 of the pronotum. 



Size rather large; form simi- 

 lar to that of the other strongly 

 tuberculate species of the 

 genus; surface rugose and 

 carinate. Head well set into 

 the pronotum ; interocular 

 area slightly more than one 

 and a half times as wide as the 

 greatest diameter of the eye and 

 provided with three transverse 

 carinse, all interrupted several 

 times and the median hardly 

 apparent mesad; frontal costa 

 very narrow, subangulately 

 produced between the antennal 

 bases, sulcate throughout and 

 expanded ventrad of the 

 ocellus into an hour-glass- 

 shaped structure ; when viewed 

 from the lateral aspect the 

 face has several undulations 

 ventrad of the interantennal 

 rather prominent; antennae depressed; 



Fig. 3. — Spathalium paranense n.sp 

 sal view of type. (X 2|.) 



protuberance; eyes ovate, 



Dor- 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



gense with several low tuberculate swellings. Pronotum of the 

 peculiar type found in the allied species, the median carina of the 

 prozona cristate, inflated caudad, caudal margin of the metazona 

 with five principal and six minor projections; prozonal crest moder- 

 ately high, eroso-serrate, projecting over the metazona and inflated 

 caudad; cephalic margin very obtuse-angulate mesad; median 

 tubercle of the caudal mar- 

 gin rather narrow and undi- rC"^"^^^ 

 vided; median carina of the ^^^^^^^^^w /V^V 



metazona regular, about equal V;: vT") J V^^x>v___ - - 



to the rather depressed discal ^ {Pi 



tubercles in height; lateral ^i^!l.y<^^^^^^~j 



angles of the metazona pro- ^^/ 



iecting laterad of the dorsal ^. . „ , , , . 



. , , 111 Fig. 4. — SpathaHum paranense n. sp. 



portion oi the lateral lobes a Lateral outline of head and pronotum. 



considerable distance, the (X -2-) 

 greatest width of the prono- 

 tum, i.e., between these angles, is slightly greater than the length 

 from the cephalic margin along the median line to the caudal margin 

 exclusive of the projections; lateral lobes of the pronotum longer 

 than deep, ventral margin sinuate cephalad, ventro-caudal angle 

 rectangulate, caudal margin with three projecting tubercles, diverted 

 lateral carinse of the prozona strongly marked. Tegmina about 

 two and one-half times the greatest absolute length of the pronotum; 

 apical margin acute-angulate with the immediate apex rounded. 

 Wings about four-fifths the length of the tegmina. Prosternal ridge 

 lamellate, arcuate with the concavity cephalad, the greatest depth 

 mesad. Interspace between the mesosternal and metasternal 

 lobes very strongly transverse. Caudal femora slightly more than 

 four-fifths the length of the tegmina, the genicular lobes and the 

 medio-genicular process acute, medio-dorsal carina with three low 

 rounded lobes, ventro-lateral carina distinctly but not greatly 

 produced; caudal tibiae with eight spines on the lateral margins, 

 ten on the internal margins. 



General colors cinnamon, wood-broAvn, and seal-brown, 

 marbled and mingled together, lined, streaked and washed 

 one on the other. Head with the face darker than the vertex, 

 fastigium and genae, the carinse of the same region lined with 

 seal-brown; eyes raw umber; antennae Vandyke brown edged 

 with cinnamon. Pronotum with the disk and lateral lobes of the 

 prozona with seal-brown predominating, crest dirty wood -brown; 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



disk of the metazona nearly all cinnamon, darker at the margins 

 and lined with seal-brown mesad; lateral lobes of the metazona 

 seal-brown between the principal ridges. Tegmina pale walnut- 

 brown, with a medio-longitudinal series of small dark blotches, 

 the sutural margins suffused and the whole surface distinctly marbled 

 with shades of brown. Limbs dirty wood-brown, the spines on the 

 caudal femora very narrowly and weakly tipped with black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 30 mm. 



Jliength of pronotum . 9.5 " 



Greatest caudal width of disk of pronotum , . 8.2 '' 



Length of tegmen... 22 " 



Length of caudal femur 16.8 " 



The type is the only specimen of the species examined. 



LOCUSTINiE. 

 DIEDRONOTUS Bolivar. 

 Diedronotus rosulentus (Stai). 



1S78. T[rapidoHotus] rosulentus Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. 

 Hand)., V, No. 9, p. 19. [New Grenada.] 



Surinam. [U. S. N. M.] Two c^. 



These specimens have the tegmina with the transverse fuscous 

 clouds very distinct proximad, becoming weak distad and extending 

 across the tegmina except for the anal area. The rosy suffusion 

 of the costal section of the wing is weaker than on the disk, being 

 only a coloration of the veins on a fuscous ground. 



Brunner has recorded this species from near Guayaquil, Ecuador. 



CHROMACEIS Walker. 



Chromacris peruviana (Pictet and Saussure). 



1887. R[ho77ialea] peruviana Pictet and Saussure, Mittheil. Schweiz. Ent. 

 Gesell., VII, p. 352. [Peru.] 



Piches and Perene Valleys, Peru, 2,000-3,000 feet. (Soc. Geog. 

 cle Lima.) [U. S. N. M.] ld',19. 



The size of the female of this species is very considerable and 

 would serve in a great measure to identifj^ it,, aside from the slender 

 form and distinctive coloration. 



This appears to be the first definite record of the species. 



TROPIDACRIS Scudder. 

 Tropidacris latreillei (Perty). 



1830. Acrydimn Latreillei Perty in Spix and Martius, Delect. Anim. 



Art., p. 123, pi. XXIV, fig. 4. [Amazon River.] 



Tobago, West Indies. (B. Sharp.) [A. N. *S. Phila.] One 9 . 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Port of Spain, Trinidad. (Ernst T. Giers.) [U. S. N. M.] Two 9 . 



Colon, Panama. (Wm. Lill.) [U. S. N. M.] One 9 . 



This species has a broad blackish margin to the wings, the proximal 

 portion of the margin being colored the same as the peripheral 

 section, while the caudal tibiae are chiefly glaucous-green. True 

 Tropidacris dux (Drury)'' from the Bay of Honduras appears to be 

 the species which Pictet and Saussure have described as Tropi- 

 daa-is cardinalis, as shown by the general reddish color of the limbs 

 and narrow black margin of the wings, both features distinctly 

 indicated in Drury's description and figure. 



It would seem, from our present knowledge of the dux-latreillei 

 group that there is a regular increase southward in the width of the 

 blackish margin to the wings, the individuals from the northern 

 section of the range of the group have the marginal band ver}'^ 

 narrow, those from the southern part of the range having it wide. 

 The future may shoAV the necessity of considering the various species 

 allied to dux as mere geographic races. 



Tropidacris cristata (Linnaeus). 



Margarita Island, Venezuela. (Wirt Robinson.) [U. S. N. M.] 

 Two 9. 



One of these specimens is larger than any of a numljer of main- 

 land specimens examined by the author.' 



OPHTHALMOLAMPIS Saussure. 



1859. Ophthalmokunpis Sau.ssure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 

 XI, p. 394. 



Included 0. colibri and yersini Saussure, of which the former has 



been designated as the type by Kirby. 



Ophthalmolampis colibri Saussure. 



1859. 0[mmatnln)npis\ {Ophthalmolampis) colibri Saussure, Revue et 

 Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XI, p. 394. [Guiana.] 



Surinam. May to September. [Hebard Collection.] One 9 . 



This individual undoubtedly belongs to Saussure's species, the 

 peculiar type of coloration of the pronotum and tegmina being 

 essentially as he describes. As the original brief description was 

 based on a. male, the female is here described. 



Size medium; form robust; surface except that of the abdomen 

 rugulose. Head broad, face slightly flattened; occiput rounded, 

 hardly elevated dorsad of the level of the pronotum; fastigium narrow, 

 the length not less than the greatest width, longitudinally sulcate; 



3 must. Exot. Ins., II, p. 82, pi. XLIV. 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



interocular space very narrow, less than half the width of the narrow- 

 est portion of the fastigium; interantennal portion of the frontal 

 costa distinctly but not greatly produced, rounding into the fas- 

 tigium, somewhat expanded, not sulcate or punctate, costa for a short 

 distance dorsad and ventrad of the ocellus narrow and sulcate, 

 costa not present ventrad of this portion; face rugoso-punctate, 

 moderately retreating when viewed from the lateral aspect, lateral 

 facial carinse not sharply defined, converging dorsad; eyes large, 

 subovate, moderately prominent; antennae slightly shorter than 

 the pronotum, thick, slightly depressed. Pronotum nearly twice 

 as long as the exposed portion of the head, the greatest caudal width 

 of the whole pronotum nearly equal to the length; cephalic margin 

 slightly arcuate with a distinct but shallow median emargination, 

 caudal margin rounded obtuse-angulate ; three transverse sulci 

 deeply impressed on the dorsum and the caudal two as distinctly 

 indicated on the lateral lobes which they cross almost to the ventral 

 margin; median carina absent, lateral carinse indicated only as 

 raised welts which are traversed by all the sulci and bear a different 

 coloring from the remainder of the pronotum, dorsum strongly and 

 closely punctate; lateral lobes with the extreme dorsal length some- 

 what greater than the depth, ventral margin distinctly sinuato- 

 emarginate cephalad, ventro-caudal angle broadly rounded. Tegmina 

 about three times as long as the head, narrow, arched and over- 

 lapping, completely covered with numerous very small impressed 

 areolae; costal margin straight except for a slight proximal expansion, 

 sutural margin very slightly arcuate, apex obliquely rotundato- 

 truncate, principal veins alone apparent. Wings reaching to the 

 tips of the tegmina. Prosternal spine very short, thick, strongly 

 transverse, blunt. Interspace between the mesosternal lobes 

 slightly transverse and very slightly broader than the lobes them- 

 selves; interspace between the metasternal lobes trigonal, strongly 

 narrowed caudad. Cephahc and median limbs rather short. Caudal 

 femora about twice as long as the pronotum, robust, inflated, the 

 greatest thickness being about two-thirds the depth, which latter 

 is contained three times in the length, carinse serrato-dentate, par- 

 ticularly the medio-dorsal, pagina with a well-marked and regular 

 pattern impressed by punctations, genicular extremity large, genicu- 

 lar lobes broad; caudal tibise about four-fifths the length of the 

 femora, armed on the external margin with seven spines, one of which 

 is apical, and with six on the internal margin; tarsi about three- 

 fourths the length of the tibise, slender, second and third joints 

 subequal and each longer than the first joint. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



General colors bay and gamboge-yellow. A very broad bar of bay 

 covers the whole occiput, the dorsum of the pronotum and two- 

 thirds of the tegmina; this area being edged laterad on the occiput 

 and pronotum with a narrow line of white ; on the tegmina are placed 

 two similar parallel white lines, the area between them being car- 

 mine and that between the innermost line and the bay color black; 

 the costal edge of the tegmina is greenish vitreous. Dorsum of 

 fastigium pomegranate -purple with a very narrow median line of 

 pale color, front of fastigium pea-green; face dull olive-green sprinkled 

 with reddish, area ventro-caudad of the eyes olive-green, a bar 

 of white extending obliquely from the insertion of the antennae to 

 the ventro-cephalad angle of the pronotum; eyes mars brown; an- 

 tennae with the proximal joint pale, remainder black. Pronotum with 

 the lateral lobes gamboge-yellow with a slight greenish tinge. Pleura^ 

 venter and abdomen similar in color to the lateral lobes of the 

 pronotum, the dorsum of the abdomen bearing a broad median 

 bar of pale liver-brown. Cephalic and median limbs similar in color 

 to the lateral lobes of the pronotum, the median femora with a 

 distinct maroon wash; tarsal joints distinctly greenish. Caudal 

 femora very pale oil-green, the genicular region blackish except for 

 a pure white spot on each genicular lobe, serrations on medio- 

 dorsal carina black; caudal tibiae oil -green with a pregenicular area 

 and the sides of the genicular portion black, genicular angle touched 

 with reddish, distal half of tibiae blackish internally, french green 

 externally, spines and spurs tipped with black; caudal tarsi very 

 pale greenish, the two proximal joints washed with pinkish. 



Measure7nents. 



Length of body 26 mm. 



Length of pronotum 6.8 " 



Length of tegmen 12 .5 " 



Length of caudal femur 14.3 " 



T.a:NIOPHORA st&i. 

 187.3. Twniophora St&l, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. .34, 53. 

 Included T. detitipes and geniculata Stal, of which dentipes has 

 been designated as the type by Kirby. 



Taeniophora femorata Bruner. 



1907. Tmiiophora femorata Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 245. 

 [Pozo Azul, Costa Rica.] 



Chiriqui, Panama. [Hebard Collection.] One male. 



This specimen agrees fully with the description of femorata except 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



for the coloration of the antennse and the cephahc and median 

 limbs, which instead of being dark ohvaceous are dull ochraceous. 



HENIA Giglio-Tos. 



1898. Henia Giglio-Tos, BoUott, Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, XIII, 

 No. 311, pp. 45 and .55. 



Type. — Gryllus frenatus Marschall. 

 Henia boliviana n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Yungas de la Paz, Bolivia, altitude 1,000 meters. 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Differing from the type species in some details of the coloration, 



Fig. 5. — Henia bolimana n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 4.) 



the larger size and proportionately longer caudal limbs, tegmina, 

 and wings. 



Size medium; form elongate; surface shiny. Head with its dorsal 

 length slightly more than half that of the pronotum, dorsum slightly 

 punctate, occiput hardly elevated, interocular region less than half 

 the width of the fastigium and descending slightly from the occiput; 

 fastigium acute with the lateral margins slightly arcuate, median 

 carina distinct on the dorsum of the fastigium; fastigial angle trun- 

 cate when viewed from the side, rounding into the decidedly re- 

 treating face; frontal costa narrow, not sharply defined, shallowly 

 and narrowly sulcate ventrad of the ocellus, not sulcate dorsad; 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



93 



eyes subovate, moderately prominent; antennae filiform, about 

 twice the length of the head and pronotum to- 

 gether. Pronotum rather narrow, the greatest ;, ;'' 

 dorsal (caudal) width contained nearly twice in :', 

 the length; cephalic margin of the disk slightly ',', 

 arcuate, caudal margin considerably arcuate; ','; 

 median carina very weak, subobsolete on the 

 metazona, transverse sulci three in number, of ';' 

 which only the caudal cuts the median carina; 

 metazona one and one-half times the length 

 of the prozona, slightly ascendant when seen ';', /.' 

 from the side; lateral shoulders well rounded; ',', 

 lateral lobes distinctly longer than high, ventral V; 

 margin obliquely sinuato-emarginate cephalad, V: 

 broadly rounded caudad; entire disk and meta- 

 zona of the lateral lobes punctate. Tegmina 

 quite narrow, lanceolate, costal lobe very shallow, 

 spurious intercalary vein present; apex very 

 narrowly rounded. Prosternal spine distinctly 

 compressed, moderately acute, with a distinct 

 caudal trend. Interspace between the mesoster- 

 nal lobes slightly transverse, the margins of the 

 lobes strongly arcuate; metasternal lobes sub- 

 attingent. Pleura with their dorsal portions 

 punctate. Ovipositor jaws very short and 

 thick, moderately compressed, teeth robust. 

 Cephalic and median limbs slender, the median 

 distinctly longer than the cephalic. Caudal 

 femora slightly surpassing the tips of the teg- 

 mina, moderately slender, genicular lobes acute, surface glabrous,, 

 pattern of the pagina consisting of arcuate or arcuato-angulate 

 lines; caudal tibia somewhat shorter than the caudal femora, dis- 

 tinctly sinuate, armed on the external margin with six spines, on 

 the internal with nine, both margins with distinct low lamellate 

 expansions on the distal half; caudal tarsi about half the length of 

 the tibiae, the proximal joint hardly shorter than the third, second 

 joint less than half the length of the first; arolium small. 



General colors yellow and black. Head with the dorsum of the 

 fastigium, interocular region and occiput olive-yellow; front and 

 sides of the fastigium and broad postocular bars shining black; 

 face and gense dull greenish-yellow, the latter clear gamboge-yellow 



Fig. 6. — Henia bo- 

 lt vian a n. sp. 

 Dorsal view of 

 head and prono- 

 t u m of type. 

 (X 4.) ■ 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



dorsad; eyes burnt umber. Pronotum with the dorsum olive-yellow, 

 this area expanding caudad, continuations of the cephalic postocular 

 bars shining black; ventral half of the lateral lobes similar to the 

 genge. Tegmina with the anal field clay color with a touch of green- 

 ish, remainder shining black. Venter and abdomen pale cinnamon. 

 Pleura blackish dorsad, this area edged with gamboge-yellow. 

 Cephalic and median femora dirty olive-yellow, the tibiae and tarsi 

 dull glaucous. Caudal femora gamboge-yellow, the genicular arches 

 and area surrounding each of them shining black, genicular lobes 

 very pale greenish; caudal tibiae glaucous blue, the color deep on the 

 distal half, spines whitish tipped with black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body ? 21 .8 mm. 



Length of pronotum 5 " 



Length of tegmen 15 .8 " 



Length of caudal femur 13.8 " 



The type specimen is the only one of the species examined. 



COPIOCERA Burmeister. 

 Copiocera surinamensis n. sp. 



Type; 9 ; Surinam. [Hebard Collection.] 



Closely allied to C. specularis and lepida Gerstaecker^ but differing 



Fig. 7. — Copiocera surinamensis n. sp Lateral view of type. (X 2.) 



from both in the depressed proximal portion of the antennae and 

 the carmine internal faces of the femora; from specularis it also differs 

 in the'^more acute fastigium, the more uniform size of the pronotal 

 punctures and the smaller size and proportionately shorter wings; 



* Mittheil. Naturwissen. Ver. Neu-Vorpomm. Rugen, XX, pp. 34-35 (1889). 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



95 



from lepidus it also differs in the dull olivaceous caudal tibiae and 

 tarsi. 



Size medium; form very elongate; surface of the pronotum and 

 pleura scabroso-punctate, of the abdomen shiny. Head with the 

 dorsal length about four-fifths that of the dorsum of the pronotum; 

 occiput slightly arched, not elevated, interocular space nearly two- 

 thirds the greatest width of the fastigium; fa.stigium acute-angulate, 

 plane, angle when seen from the side rotundato-truncate ; face very 

 considerably retreating; frontal costa distinct only to a short dis- 

 tance ventrad of the ocellus, appreciably constricted immediately 

 ventrad of the ocellus and faintly so dorsad of the same point, de- 

 cidedly depressed within its margins; eyes elongate ovate, longer 

 than the infraocular portion of the gense, moderately prominent 

 when viewed from the dorsum; antennae distinctly but not greatly 

 longer than the head and pronotum, somewhat ensiform, the expan- 

 sion almost wholly in the five proximal joints, the distal half tapering 

 almost imperceptibly, the apex somewhat blunt. Pronotum with 

 the greatest caudal width of the disk contained one and two-thirds 

 times in the length; cephalic margin truncato-arcuate, caudal margin 

 very slightly obtuse-angulate, median carina present only on the 

 metazona where it is but little elevated, transverse sulci three in 

 number, metazona contained one and one-half 

 times in the prozona; lateral lobes slightly longer 

 than deep, ventral margin arcuato-emarginate 

 cephalad, truncate caudad, caudal angle bluntl}' 

 rectangulate. Tegmina about five times the 

 length of th-e pronotum, subequal in width, 

 the latter being about two-thirds the dorsal 

 length of the pronotum; costal margin consider- 

 ably arcuate in the distal third, sutural margin 

 nearly straight, apex narrowly rounded; inter- 

 calary area without any longitudinal vein. 

 Prosternal process transverse, constricted mesad, 

 the apical portion somewhat compressed, sub- 

 fusiform and the lateral processes blunt; inter- 

 space between the mesosternal lobes very narrow; 

 metasternal lobes contiguous. Cephalic and 

 median limbs short, rather slender. Caudal 

 femora slightly more than half the length of the 

 tegmina, compressed, rather regularly tapering, 

 the greatest width contained about five and one-half times in the 



Fig. 8. — Copiocera 

 suri7iamensis n. 

 sp. Dorsal view 

 of head and pro- 

 notum. (X 2.) 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mai'ch^ 



length; caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora, external 

 margins armed with five spines, of which the distal three are grouped 

 separate from the others, internal margins with ten to eleven spines; 

 caudal tarsi with the second joint slightly more than half the length 

 of the first, third slightly longer than the first. 



General color very dull olive-green, slightly yellowish on the 

 head. Antennae and fastigium blackish, the distal fifth of the antennae 

 cadmium-yellow; eyes raw umber. Abdomen Chinese orange dorsad 

 and laterad, the ventral and lateral portions of the inter-segmental 

 margins of the dorsal sclerites broadly blackish, leaving the orange 

 as semicircular blotches visible ventrad of the closed tegmina. 

 Cephalic and median limbs washed with very dull purplish. Internal 

 and ventral faces of the caudal femora very deep maroon-purple, 

 internal face of the genicular region of the caudal femora and tibiae 

 black, external face of the same area of the former with an apical 

 and median spot on the lobes as well as the arches and dorsal portion 

 of the same region cadmium-yellow; caudal tibiae dirty purplish- 

 brown, the spines black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 42 . 5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 7 



Length of tegmen .s 36 .5 



Length of caudal femur 19 



The type is unique. 



ZYGOCLISTRON Rehn. 

 Zygoclistron acutum u sp. 



Type: 9 ; Petropolis, State of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. [Hebard 

 Collection.] 



Closely related to Z. superbwn Rehn, but differing in the more 

 acute fastigium, the less expanded and much more shallowly sulcate 

 frontal costa, the more bullate prozona of the pronotum with the 

 median carina of that portion weak, and in the caudal width of the 

 interspace between the metasternal lobes being equal to the narrowest 

 portion of the interspace between the mesosternal lobes, instead 

 of distinctly wider as in superbum. 



Size large, form moderately robust. Head with the occiput con- 

 siderably arcuate, but little elevated, descending slightly to the 

 interocular region which is slightly more than two-thirds the width of 




1913.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



fastigium; fastigium slightly declivent, the distal half acute-angu- 

 late when seen from the dorsum, 

 shallowly excavate, angle of the 

 fastigium when seen from the side 

 rounded rectangulate ; face slightly 

 retreating; frontal costa regularly 

 expanding to the clypeal suture, 

 moderately excavate, the margins 

 somewhat sinuate, face somewhat 

 scabrous; eyes subovoid, slightly y^g, 9-12.-Dorsal and lateral 

 longer than the infra-ocular por- views of the fastigium of Zygo- 

 tion of the gen^, moderately promi- *J'™» r^Z.S' ('^I'V&ffi^'J' 

 nent when seen from the dorsum. 11-12). (x 4.) 

 Pronotum somewhat inflated on 



the prozona, deplanate on the metazona. slightly tectate on the 

 prozona, the prozona somewhat elevated when seen in profile, 

 the metazona being rather straight and slightly less elevated; dorsum 

 of the pronotum slightly less than twice the dorsal length of the head, 

 cephalic and caudal margins obtuse-angulate, the former with the 

 angle sharp, the latter with it subtruncate and the sides of the angle 

 slightly emarginate; caudal width of the disk slightly more than two- 

 thirds the length; median carina distinct, rather high on the meta- 

 zona, blunt, cut by three transverse sulci, the metazona slightly 

 shorter than the prozona; lateral shoulders distinct on the metazona, 

 well rounded on the prozona; lateral lobes distinctly longer than deep, 

 the ventral margin with a slight oblique truncation cephalad; surface 

 of the entire pronotum strongly scabroso-punctate. Tegmina three 

 and a third times the length of the pronotum, reaching caudad of 

 the tips of the femora; costal margins moderately arcuate proximad 

 and distad, straight mesad, sutural margin nearly straight, apex 

 rather narrowly rounded; intercalary area with no distinct inter- 

 calary vein. Prosternal spine somewhat compressed, slightly 

 bulbous, and very much rounded longitudinally at the apex. Inter- 

 space between the mesosternal lobes distinctly longer than broad; 

 metasternal lobes separated by a wedge-shaped interspace which 

 at its narrowest point is subequal to the mesosternal interspace. 

 Cephalic and median limbs moderately robust, rather short. Caudal 

 femora falling slightly short of the tips of the ovipositor jaws, 

 tapering, rather slender; caudal tibiae with eight to nine spines on 

 the external margin, internal margin with twelve spines considerably 

 longer than those of the external margin. 

 7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Color pattern exactly as in Z. superbimi, the colors themselves 

 being the same ^vith the following exceptions: yellow on dorsum 

 of pronotum and anal area of tegmina duller and more ochraceous, 

 darker markings on pronotum, more purplish-red, caudal femora' 

 distinctly speckled with olive-green. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 49 .5 mm. 



Length of pronotum • 10.8 



Greatest dorsal width of disk of pronotum 7.3 " 



Length of tegmen 35.8 



Length of caudal femur 23.2 " 



The type specimen alone has been examined. 



VILERNA Stai. 

 "Vilerna rugulosa Stal. 



Santa Catharina, Brazil. [Hebard Collection.] One 9 . 



Rio Janeiro, Brazil. [Hebard Collection.] One 9 . 



Espirito Santo, Brazil. [Hebard Collection.] One 9 . 



The tegmina slightly exceed the tips of the caudal femora in 

 the Santa Catharina specimen. 



CALETODES Giglio-Tos. 



1898. Caletodes Giglio-To.s, BoUett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, XIII, 

 No. 311, pp. 47, 58. 



. Type. — C. alatus Giglio-Tos (designated by Kirby). 



Caletodes pulchripes n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Balzapamba, Ecuador. (R. Haensch.) [Hebard Col- 

 lection.] 



Allied to C. alatus from Gualaquiza and Valley of Santiago, 

 Ecuador, but differing in the structure of the frontal costa, the 

 incised caudal angle of the pronotum and the rounded apex of the 

 fastigium. From C. festce Giglio-Tos from the Valley of Santiago, 

 it differs in that the lateral carinse of the pronotum are much less 

 apparent than the median, in the longer tegmina which are normal 

 and not lateral in position, in the cylindrical prosternal spine and 

 the lesser size. 



Size medium: form rather robust; surface of head and pleura 

 rugulose, of pronotum rugoso-tuberculate, dorsum of abdomen with 

 numerous small irregular transverse wrinkles. Head with the 

 dorsum about five-eighths the dorsal length of the pronotum; occi- 

 put considerably arcuate, distinctly but slightly elevated, descending 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



99 



to the interocular space which is hardly more than half the greatest 

 width of the fastigium, occiput to junction with fastigium bearing a 



Fig. 13. — Caletodes pidchripes n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 3.) 



distinct but rather irregular median carina; fastigium produced, 

 blunt lanceolate when seen from the dorsum, the lateral margins 

 subparallel proximad, the distal section regularly converging to the 

 well-rounded apex, a pair of irregular lateral 

 carinse are present on the proximal portion, the 

 entire surface of the dorsum of the fastigium 

 concavely excavate, when seen from the side 

 the angle of the fastigium is seen to be rounded 

 rectangulate dorsad, the ventral section of the 

 process strongly arcuate and curving into the 

 slightly retreating face, the proximo-dorsal half 

 of the fastigium horizontal, the distal half 

 considerably declivent; frontal costa extending 

 to the cljrpeal suture, distinctly excavate, con- 

 siderably constricted ventrad of the ocellus; 

 accessory facial carinse very slightly divergent 

 ventrad; eyes very slightly reniform in shape, 

 subequal to the infra-ocular portion of the gense, 

 moderately prominent when viewed from the 

 dorsum; antennae equal to the pronotum and 

 half the length of the head, ensiform, the 

 segments distinct, flattened, subtriangular in 

 section, the length of the segments beyond the fourth usually 

 .alternates short and long, apex blunt. Pronotum with the length 



Fig. 14. — Caletodes 

 pidchripes n. sp. 

 Dorsal outline of 

 head and prono- 

 tum. (X 3.) 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March^ 



one and two-thirds times that of the head, the greatest caudal width 

 of the disk contained about one and one-half 

 times in the length; cephalic margin sub- 

 truncate, caudal margin obtuse-angulate, the 

 apex very blunt and obtusely incised, the mar- 

 gins somewhat sinuate; median carina distinct 

 but low and somewhat irregular, cut by three 

 transverse sulci, the caudal the deepest and 

 widest, metazona about three-fourths the length 



Pig 15 Caletodes o^ the prozona; lateral carinae formed only of 



pulchripes n. sp. blunt tubercles and but little apparent except 

 Outline of face. i i i. xv, j. j i, i i 



(X 4^ caudad where they are represented by rounded 



shoulders; lateral lobes longer than deep, cephalic 

 and caudal margins obliquely converging, ventral margin with a 

 considerable sinuate emargination cephalad; dorsal outline of the 

 pronotum very slightly arched on the cephalic portion of the pro- 

 zona, straight on the remainder of the pronotum. Tegmina slightly 

 longer than the head and pronotum together, attingent and over- 

 lapping dorsad, tapering in the distal two-thirds, costal margin 

 with a considerable proximal lobe, nearly straight thence to the 

 apex, sutural margin very slightly arcuate proximad; intercalary 

 area with a distinct intercalary vein. Prosternal spine erects 

 regularly tapering, apex slightly blunted; interspace between the 

 mesosternal lobes very slightly transverse; interspace between the 

 metasternal lobes with its caudal width only about half that between 

 the mesosternal lobes. Ovipositor jaws short and thick, the proximal 

 portions of the margins blunt serrate. Cephalic and median limbs 

 moderately robust. Caudal femora about twice the length of the 

 pronotum, robust, the margins distinctly serrate, the pagina dis- 

 tinctly patterned, the ridges with numerous asperities, genicular 

 lobes rounded; caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora,, 

 slightly but very noticeably decurved proximad, external margin with 

 seven spines, internal with nine; caudal tarsi with the proximal 

 and distal joints subequal, arolium present. 



General color bistre, washed very irregularly and not at all strongly 

 with drab, asperities on the pronotum, limbs and spotting on facial 

 carinse blackish; eyes mummy -brown; caudal femora with a spot 

 on the ventro-median portion of the lateral face cinnamon, internal 

 face washed with carmine, interno-ventral with crimson, the dorsal 

 face with traces of three cinnamon bands, the distal of which is an 

 imperfect annulus, genicular arches and internal genicular face 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



clay color; caudal tibiae crimson, the external face with some of the 

 general color and an imperfect pale pregenicular annulus also present, 

 spines ochraceous tipped with black. 



Measvrements. 



Length of body 27 mm. 



Length of pronotmn 6.7 " 



Length of tegmen 12 " 



Length of caudal femur 13.2 " 



The type is unique. 



SAPARUS Giglio-To3. 



1898. Saparus Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. .\nat. Comp., XIII, No. 

 311, pp. 47, 60. 



Type. — Saparus cequatorialis Giglio-Tos. 



Saparus aequatorialis Giglio-Tos. 



1898. S[apnrus] cequatorialis Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp., 

 XIII, No. 311, p. 61. [Valley of Santiago, Ecuador.] 



Piches and Perene Valleys, 2,000 to 3,000 feet, Peru. (Soc. Geog. 

 de Lima.) [U. S. N. M.] One cf , one 9 . 



The male individual here recorded is slightly smaller than the 

 type measurements given by Giglio-Tos. 



As the female sex was hitherto unknown, a few notes are here 

 given from the specimen in hand. 



The eyes are less prominent in the female than in the male, while 

 the head is broader proportionately at the base of the mandibles. 

 The lateral facial carina? are much more divergent in the female, 

 while the structure of the fastigium and frontal costa is about 

 the same in both sexes. The interspace between the mesoster- 

 nal lobes is slightly longitudinal in the male, subquadrate in the 

 female, while the metasternal lobes are separated by a very narrow 

 space in the male and by a considerable transverse interspace in the 

 female. The face and mouth parts of the male are very pale 

 ochraceous, distinctly contrasted with the general coloration. 



Measurements. cf' 9 



Length of body 26 mm. 38 mm. 



Length of dorsum of pronotum 5 " 7 " 



Length of tegmen 27.5 " 29 " 



Greatest width of tegmen 4.5 " 6.5 " 



Length of caudal femur 16 '' 20.8 " 



ANTIPHANES Stai. 



1878. Antiphanes St§,l, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet. Akad. HandJingar 

 V, No. 4, p. 35. 



Type. — Ommatolampis nodicoUis Burmeister. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maich^. 



Antiphanes nodicollis (Burmeister). 



1838. 0[mmatolampis] nodicollis Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., Bd. II,. 

 Abtheil. II, pt. I, p. 637. [Brazil.] 



Minas Geraes, Brazil. 1897. [Hebard Collection.] One ? . 



With only Burmeister 's very brief description to furnish one 

 the characters of the species, it is somewhat difficult to decide 

 whether the specimen in hand is his species or not. Burmeister de- 

 scribes the genicular regions, caudal tibiae and tarsi as sanguineous, 

 while in the Minas Geraes individual only the tarsi and distal half of the 

 tibiae are of that colpr, but this may possibly be due to the fact that 

 the original specimen was a male. Until further evidence is at hand, 

 it seems preferable to use Burmeister's name for the specimen 

 before us. 



OMMATOLAMPIS Burmeister. 



1838. Ommatolampis Burmeister, Handbuch der Entom., Bd. II, Abtheil. 

 II, pt. I, p. 636. 



Type designated by Kirby — 0. perspicillata (Johansson). 



Ommatolampis perspicillata (Johansson). 



1763. Gryllus perspicillatus Johansson, Amoen. Acad., VI, p. 398. ["In- 

 diLs."] 



Surinam. [Hebard Collection.] One cf, one 9. 

 Ommatolampis palpata St&l. 



1878. 0[mmalolampis\ palpata StS,l, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. 

 Hand!., V, No. 4, p. 81. [Peru.] 



Piches and Perene Valleys, 2,000-3,000 feet elevation, Peru. 

 (Soc. Geog. de Lima.) [U. S. N. M.] One 9 . 



This record appears to be the first since the description of the 

 species. 



The measurements of the specimen are as follows: 



Length of body 34 mm. 



Length of pronotum 6.5 " 



Greatest caudal width of pronotum 7.8 " 



Length of tegmcn 1.5 " 



Length of caudal femur 22.3 •" 



OULENOTACRIS n. gen.s 



A member of the Nicarchi and related to Anablysis Gerstaecker, 

 but differing in the lesser number of antennal joints and the absence 

 of any prominent tubercles on the pronotum. The new genus also 

 possesses a heavy robust structure quite different from Anablysis. 



Fastigium subrectangulate, a slight median longitudinal depression 

 present, interantennal projection distinct, but not greatly con- 



5 0)';' 7/, cicatrice, • noror^ back; fiKpic, locust. 




1913.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



103 



spicuous; frontal costa punctate dorsad, sulcate ventrad; eyes 

 prominent; antennae fifteen-jointed. Pronotum punctate, with no 

 prominent lobes or carinae, transverse sulci well impressed. Tegmina 

 exceeding the apex of the abdomen, narrow, tapering. Interspaces 

 between the mesosternal and metasternal lobes subquadrate. 

 Ovipositor jaws short and thick. Caudal limbs robust, femora with 

 the margins finely serrate; external margin of the tibia? with six 

 spines, no apical external spine present; tarsi with the first and third 

 joints subequal, second about half the length of the first. 



Type — 0. robusta n. sp. 

 Oulenotacris robusta n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Surinam. May-September. [Hebard Collection.] \^ 

 Size moderately small; form very robust; surface of pronotum, 

 pleura, face and dorsal face of the femora punctate. Head with 

 the dorsal length about three-fifths 

 that of the pronotum; occiput very 

 shghtly arched, descending appreciably 

 to the interocular region which is about 

 equal in width to half that of the 

 fastigium; fastigium shghtly broader 

 than long, rectangulate with the apex 

 truncate, dorsum with a distinct but 

 very slight longitudinal line; fastig- 

 ial process moderately protuberant 

 when seen from the side, rotundato- 

 truncate, face slightly retreating; 

 frontal costa broadest between the 

 antennae, distinctly constricted ven- 

 trad of the ocellus and toward the 

 sutural margin, not very deeply 

 sulcate around and ventrad of the 

 ocellus, punctate dorsad; supple- 

 mentary facial carinae prominent, sub- 

 parallel; no distinct lateral foveolae; 

 eyes subreniform ovate, distinctlj^ 

 longer than the infra-ocular sulcus, 

 very prominent from both aspects; 

 antennae about equal to the head and 

 pronotum in length, thick, slightly 

 depressed, blunt. Pronotum with 

 the greatest width of the disk, about 

 four-fifths the length of the same 



Fig. 16. — Oulenotacris robusta 

 n. sp. Dorsal view of type. 

 (X3.) 



?phalic margin gently arcuate 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



with a very broad and shallow median emargination, caudal margin 

 obtuse-angulate; median carina very faintly indicated on the meta- 

 zona and the cephalic half of the prozona, absent elsewhere; trans- 

 verse sulci distinct, the caudal very deep on the median portion 

 of the dorsum ; disk almost flat, lateral angles rounded but apparent ; 

 lateral lobes slightly longer than deep, the ventro-cephalic angle 

 broadly excised by a deep emargination. Tegmina distinctly ex- 

 ceeding the apex of the abdomen and slightly exceeding the tips 

 of the caudal femora, tapering, distal third narrow with the apex 

 narrowly rounded; costal margin with a distinct but shallow lobe; 



Fig. 17. — Oulenotacris robusta n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 3.) 



intercalary vein distinct, at least distad. Prosternal spine very short 

 and low, subconoid; interspace between the mesosternal lobes 

 transverse; interspace between the metasternal lobes subquadrate, 

 the cephalic width (i.e., that between the foveolae) greater than 

 the caudal. Abdomen with the ovipositor jaws distinctly com- 

 pressed and short. Cephalic and median limbs of medium size. 

 Caudal femora robust, the greatest width contained about three 

 and a half times in the length; medio-dorsal carina moderately 

 serrate, pagina with the pattern distinct and regular, genicular 

 lobes with the ventral margin emarginate distad; caudal tibiae 

 distinctly shorter than the femora, armed on the external margin 

 with six spines, internal margin with eight to nine spines, no apical 

 spine present on the external margin; caudal tarsi about half the 

 length of the tibise, third joint shghtly longer than the first, second 

 about half the length of the first, arolia of medium size. 



General color bistre, more olivaceous on the dorsum and the 

 greater area of the later portion of the metazona. Occiput, face 

 and mouth parts with quite a little dull yellowish mingled with the 

 general color; gense soiled yellowish, this being continued on the 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



lateral lobes of the pronotum by an obliquely defined ventral patch 

 of chrome-yellow; facial carinae dashed with blackish. Eyes tawny- 

 olive; antennae olive. Dorsal portion of the lateral lobes of the pro- 

 zona washed with dull claret-browTi. Tegmina with numerous small 

 quadrate areas of wood-browTi on the general color. Disk of the 

 wings lemon-yellow. Pleura with a broken continuation of the 

 yellow pronotal bar and an additional dash of dull yellowish bordered 

 by dull blackish. Venter raw umber; dorsum of the abdomen prout's 

 brown, median area of the lateral aspect of the proximal segments 

 shining blackish. Cephalic and median femora burnt umber and 

 blackish. Caudal femora vinaceous, rufous dorsad, ecru-drab on the 

 ventral portion of the pagina, maroon on the externo-ventral face, 

 carmine on the internal face, two indistinct oblique bars are present, 

 seal-browai in color, but occasionally touched with greenish, genicu- 

 lar region dark clay color; caudal tibiae very dull purplish on the 

 internal face, very dull olive-green on the external face, a broad 

 poorly defined proximal area pale, spines pale yellow tipped with black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 23 mm. 



Length of pronotum 5.2 " 



Length of tegmen 17 .5 " 



Length of caudal femur 13.2 " 



The tvpe is unique. 



SITALCES stai. 



1878. Sitalces St&l, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handlingar, V, Xo. 

 9, p. 16. 



TjToe designated by Kirb}^ — S. volxemi Stal. 

 Sitalces balzapambae n. sp. 



Type: d^ ; Balzapamba, Ecuador (R. Haensch.) [Hebard Col- 

 lection.] 



Fig. 18. — Sitalces balzapambce n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 4.) 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Allied to S. trinitatis Bruner, with a specimen of which it has 

 been compared, but differing in the less prominent eyes, the broader 

 interspace between the same, the more tectate dorsum of the prono- 

 tum, the broader and differently shaped distal portion of the tegmina 

 and very different character of the apex of the abdomen. 



Size small; form shghtly compressed, a distinct median carina 

 present from the cephalic margin of the dorsum of the pronotum 

 to the apex of the abdomen, the dorsum for this reason being tectate; 

 surface of the thoracic segments, dorsum of the head and to an 

 extent of the limbs ruguloso-punctate. Head with its dorsal length 

 three-fifths that of the pronotum in the male, half the length of the 

 same in the female; occiput distinctly arcuate and provided with a 

 pair of converging irregular channels; interocular space about half 

 the greatest width of the fastigium, provided with a shallow but 

 distinct sulcus which extends to the fastigial margin; fastigium 

 distinctly broader than long, rounded rectangulate, very slightly 

 acute in the male, the immediate angle subtruncate, surface with a 

 pair of rather low parallel ridges flanking the central sulcus, margins 

 with a distinctly elevated rim; fastigial process slightly protuberant 

 when seen from the side, subtruncate, forming an appreciable 

 angle with the dorsum of the fastigium and gently curving ventrad 

 into the slightly retreating face; frontal costa continuous, very 

 slightly expanding ventrad of the ocellus, punctate dorsad, sulcate 

 from between the antennae ventrad; supplementary facial carinse 

 ■ > slightly sinuate and slightly divergent ventrad; 



V, ,y areas usually occupied by the lateral foveolae 



•.'. .7 strongly punctate; eyes elliptical, longer and 



narrower in the female than in the male, length 

 \\ / very considerably more than that of the infra- 



ocular portion of the gense, distinctly prominent 

 in both sexes. Pronotum with the greatest 

 caudal width of the disk contained one and 

 one-quarter (cf) to one and one-third (9) times 

 in the length of the disk, distinctly tectate; 

 cephalic margin slightly arcuate, caudal margin 

 rotundato-truncate with a well-marked median 

 ' ^ffihapamh Jn.^sn. V-shaped emargination which is less pronounced 

 Dorsal outline of in the female than in the male; median carina 

 turn 'o^f t*y°pe" distinct, subequal, cut by three transverse sulci, 

 (X 4.) metazona about half the length of the prozona; 



lateral angles not at all strongly marked, slightly converg- 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



ing to the first transverse sulcus, then regularly but not 

 greatly diverging caudad; lateral lobes distinctly longer than 

 deep, the cephalic portion of the ventral margin obliquely 

 emarginate, caudo-ventral angle very broadly rounded. Tegmina 

 in both sexes slightly surpassing the caudal margin of the meta- 

 notum, slightly curved ventrad with the greatest width at the 

 distal third, apex rounded. Prosternal spine erect, conical, not very 

 sharp; interspace between the mesosternal lobes moderately trans- 

 verse; interspace between the metasternal lobes of the usual key- 

 stone shape, much narrower than that between the mesosternal 

 lobes. Ovipositor jaws of the female very slightly compressed, the 

 dorsal pair subequal in depth in the proximal half; supra-anal plate 

 of the male acute trigonal; cerci of the male styliform, reaching 

 about to the apex of the supra-anal plate; subgenital plate with the 

 apex not elevated above the general dorsal margin of the plate, 

 rounded when seen from the dorsum. Cephalic and median limbs 

 proportionately^ more robust in the male than in the female. Caudal 

 femora moderately robust in the male, weaker and smaller propor- 

 tionately in the female, exceeding the apex of the abdomen in both 

 sexes, pagina with the pattern rather coarse but regular and distinct ,^ 

 medio-dorsal carina finely serrulate; caudal tibiae slightly shorter 

 than the femora, armed on the external margin with eight spines^ 

 on the internal with nine spines; caudal tarsi with the third joint 

 appreciably longer than the first. 



General color in the female drab, sprinkled, lined and dotted with 

 blackish, in the male Isabella color marked in the same fashion. 

 An area along the median line of the body almost clear base color 

 in the male, the sides of the proximal two-thirds of the abdomen 

 shining black in both sexes, this area being more extended dorsad 

 in the male. Head with the face naples yellow in the male, dull 

 orange-buff in the female, dull blackish around the bases of the an- 

 tennae; occiput and cheeks prout's brown in the male, Vandyke 

 brown in the female; eyes pale tawny-olive in the male, walnut- 

 brown in the female. Pronotum with the dorsal portion of the lateral 

 lobes dark, median carina blackish, particularly in the male; ventral 

 half of the lateral lobes the same color as the face, limited dorsad 

 by an obtuse angulate patch of blackish. Tegmina prout's brown 

 in the male, walnut-brown in the female. Venter of the abdomen 

 primrose-yellow in the male, raw umber in the female, provided in 

 each sex with a medio-longitudinal shining blackish-ljrown bar 

 reaching to the margin of the subgenital plate; sternal plates mottled 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



blackish and primrose-yellow (cf ) or blackish and raw umber (9). 

 Cephalic and median limbs of the general colors. Caudal limbs 

 broccoli-brown in the male, chocolate-brown in the female, the dorsal 

 surface at about two-fifths the distance from the base provided with 

 a velutinous black spot, internal face blue-black, ventral faces very 

 deep bottle-green; caudal tibiae glaucous, paler in the male, the 

 spines yellowish with the apical half black. 



Afeasurenmits. 



cT" 9 



Length of body 17 mm. 20.4 mm. 



Length of pronotum 3.8 " 4.4 " 



Length of tegmen 3.5 " 4 " 



Length of caudal femur 10.6 " 12 " 



In addition to the male type, we have before us a female allotype, 

 the differential characters of which are included in the above 

 description. 

 Sitalces debilis n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Rosario, Santa Inez, 1,250 meters, east of the Andes.^ 

 October 31, 1899. [Hebard Collection.] 



Belonging to the section a of the genus as described by Stal, 



Fig. 20.—Sitalces debilis n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 3.) 



l)ut not closely related to either of the two species there described 

 or the more recently characterized S. nudus Bruner. 



Size rather small; form robust, subfusiform; surface almost 



^The locality for this species is in every probability Rosario, Gualaquiza 

 Valley, basin of the Rio Maranon, Eucador. " 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. lOQ* 



entirely rugoso-punctate. Head with the dorsal length nearly three- 

 fifths that of the pronotum; occiput slightly arched, not elevated, 

 perceptibly descending to the interocular region, the interspace 

 being very narrow, hardly more than a fourth the greatest fastigial 

 width, not regularly narrowing, but of subequal width for some 

 short distance; fastigium transverse, slightly obtuse-angulate with 

 the apex subtruncate, the fastigial margins with a slight rim, the 

 surface of the fastigium slightly impresso-punctate ; fastigial process 

 when seen from the side not projecting beyond the line of the face, 

 the latter being but very slightly retreating, the fastigio-facial 

 angle very slightly rounded; frontal costa absent on the ventral 

 portion of the face, appreciably but not greatly narrowed dorsad 

 and ventrad, irregularly sulcate around the ocellus, 

 deeply punctate dorsad; lateral foveolar areas ,/ 



punctate; supplementary facial carinse con- 

 siderably divergent caudad; eyes eUiptical, very 

 distinctly longer than the infra-ocular portion 

 of the gense, moderately prominent when viewed // 



from the dorsum. Pronotum rounded transversely, 

 hardly tectate, the length slightly shorter than 

 the greatest caudal width; cephalic margin sub- 

 truncate, caudal margin truncate with a broad, 

 shallow median emargination ; median carina 

 distinct cephalad and caudad, very weak mesad, 

 transverse sulci three in number, prozona nearly ^^§'4^77? ^n^'^sp^ 

 twice the length of the metazona; lateral lobes Dorsal outline of 

 of the pronotum not separated from the dorsum ^^^^^ ^^f PJ°^«y 

 by distinct angles or carinse, rounding regularly (X 3.) 

 into the vertical lobes, longer than deep, cephalic 

 and caudal margins somewhat sinuate, ventral margin with a pro- 

 nounced ventro-cephalic emargination, obtuse-angulate caudad. 

 Mesonotum and metanotum very broadly obtuse-angulate emar- 

 ginate, the metanotum with the angle more apparent than the 

 mesonotum. Tegmina and wings absent. Prosternal spine rather 

 small, conical, acute; interspace between the mesosternal lobes 

 slightly transverse ; interspace between the metasternal lobes smaller 

 than the mesosternal interspace, slightl}^ transverse. Abdomen 

 moderately compressed, keeled; dorsal ovipositor jaws \vith their 

 external margin very bluntly serrate. Cephalic and median limbs 

 rather slender. Caudal femora about three times as long as the 

 pronotum, tapering, the medio-dorsal carina serrate, the ventro- 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



lateral sparselj- serrato-dentate with a weaker serration between 

 the higher ones, pagina regularly patterned, ventral margin of the 

 genicular lobes sinuate; caudal tibiae very slightly shorter than the 

 femora, distinctly sinuate, armed on the external margin with 

 six spines, on the internal margin with six to seven; caudal tarsi 

 with the proximal joint distinctly shorter than the third, second 

 hardly half the length of the proximal one. 



General color olive, blackish-brown on the ventral surface, the 

 face, cheeks and dorsal portion of the mouth parts Isabella color; 

 €yes cinnamon cephalad, raw umber caudad. Caudal femora pale 

 tawny-olive, the dorsal surface entirely washed with the same, 

 genicular arches blackish-brown, ventral sulcus dark bottle-green; 

 caudal tibiae dull olive-green, the spines french green with their 

 distal halves black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 20 mm. 



Length of pronotum 4 " 



Length of caudal femur 13 " 



The type is unique. 



SCHISTOCERCA Stai. 

 Schistocerca aegyptia (Thunb.). 



181.5. (ll[ryllus] cegyplius Thunberg, Mem. I'Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Pctersb., 

 V, p. 247. [St. Bartholomew, West Indies.] 



St. Thomas, Danish West Indies. December, 1882. A. Koebele. 

 [U. S. N. M.] One d". 



When compared with a male of cegij-ptia from Culebra Island, 

 the St. Thomas specimen is seen to differ structurally only in the 

 slightly shorter caudal femora. The coloration of the St. Thomas 

 individual has in a gi'eat measure been effaced by the preservative 

 in which the specimen was immersed, but the pattern, as it remains, 

 is essentially the same as in the Culebra representative. 

 ScMstocerca vaga brevis n. subsp. 



Types: cf and 9 ; Clarion Island, Pacific Ocean, S. W. of Cape 

 San Lucas, Lower California. (Dr. G. Baur.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This is an extremely interesting short-winged form of the rather 

 widely spread S. vaga, immediately distinguishable by the short 

 tegmina and wings which very slightly surpass the tips of the caudal 

 femora. The typical series of five, one male and four females, has 

 been immersed in a liquid preservative and in consequence the 

 coloration and to a certain extent minor structural characters 

 can hardly be considered to furnish diagnostic characters. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. HI 



On comparison with a series of vaga from a number of localities, 

 the Clarion Island series is seen to be practically identical except 

 for the short tegmina and wings. In view of the uniformity of 

 this character in all of the five specimens, we deem it best to con- 

 sider the Clarion Island form at least a geographic subspecies, 

 limited as far as known to Clarion Island. It is quite curious 

 to note that typical vaga is found on Guadelupe Island off the west 

 coast of Lower California, in fact, that island was one of the 

 original localities, and from the measurements given by Scudder 

 it will be seen that the specimens were of the normal long-winged 

 type. The distance of Guadelupe Island from the nearest portion 

 of the mainland, i.e., Lower California, is about one hundred and 

 seventy miles, while Clarion Island is about four hundred and thirty- 

 five miles from Cape San Lucas, the nearest mainland point. The 

 difference in chstance may possibly account for the difference in 

 wing length by the hypothesis that vaga regularly flies to and fro 

 between Guadelupe Island and the mainland, and the resident 

 brood is recruited by new arrivals and produces, through the in- 

 fluence of new blood and the presence thereby of a comparatively 

 active migratory influence, generations in which the wings are very 

 powerful. On the other hand. Clarion Island was probably colon- 

 ized by stray migrants, and from these has evolved a short-winged 

 type through isolation and lack of use for the wings except in a 

 restricted area. While we are unaware of the presence of S. vaga 

 on the Revillagegedo Islands, the species, and possibly subspecies, 

 may occur there, the nearest one of the group, Roca Partida, being 

 one hundred and forty miles distant from Clarion Island. 



The measurements of the types of Schistocerca vaga hrevis are as 

 follows : 



d^ 9 



Length of body 30.5 mm. 43 mm. 



Length of pronotum 7 " 9.5 



Length of tegmen 24.5 " 33.5 



Length of caudal femur 19.2 " 24.5 " 



Schistocerca sequalis Scudder. 



1899. Schistocerca fequalh Scudder. Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., 

 XXXIV, p. 458. [Demerara, British Guiana.] 



Caracas, Venezuela. (Dr. A. Ernst.) [U. S. N. M.] One 9 . 



This species is quite difficult to distinguish in the female sex 

 from the allied S. desiUens Scudder, but the color of the caudal tibiae, 

 i.e., varying shades of glaucous in cequalis and reddish in desiUens, 

 appears to be a convenient character by which to separate specimens. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



In the male sex the form of the cerei, tapering and very narrowly 

 rounded in desiliens and subequal and subtruncate in wqualis, 

 is a fairly satisfactory clue to the species. The cerci in the three 

 males available for study have the apical angular emargination 

 described by Scudder extrememly slight and hardly perceptible. 



Six individuals, three of each sex, have been examined, those 

 in addition to . the Caracas specimen being from Demerara and 

 Bartica, British Guiana. 



Schistocerca peregrina (Olivier). 



1804. Acridimn peregrinum Olivier, Voyage I'Emp. Othoman, II, p. 425. 

 [Egypt; Arabia; Mesopotamia; Persia.] 



Venezuela. [U. S. N. M.] One 9 . 



This specimen has been compared with undoubted specimens 

 of S. peregrina received from the late Dr. Saussure. 



Schistocerca paranensis Burmeister. 



1861. Acridium paranense Burmeister, Reise durch La Plata-Staaten, 

 I, p. 491. [La Plata country; Parand; Entre Rios.] 



Medellin, Antioquia, Colombia. 1879. (Thos. Herran.) [U. S. 

 N.M.] One cf, two 9 . 



Caracas, Venezuela. (Dr. A. Ernst.) [U. S. N. M.] Three cf , 

 seven 9 . 



Berbice, British Guiana. September 6, 1886. (J. J. Quelch.) 

 [U. S. N. M.] Two d^, three 9 . 



From the specimens recorded above it is evident that this migra- 

 tory and destructive locust is at times present in northern South 

 America, and from data with the Caracas series it seems that it 

 appears in considerable assemblages. Dr. Ernst's remarks are to the 

 effect that the species "invaded" the region "from September, 

 1882, to January, 1883," and he also states the "flight was to the 

 northeast and at a height of about twenty feet from the ground." 



There is in this series a very considerable amount of variation 

 in size in individuals of both sexes. A number of specimens of the 

 female sex are no larger than several of the Caracas males. 



AIDEMONA Brunner. 

 Aidemona azteca (Saussure). 



Western Colombia. [Hebard Collection.] One 9 . 



This specimen is not separable from females of the States of San 

 Luis Potosi and Vera Cruz, Mexico. The range of the species is 

 here extended some distance south of the previously known southern 

 limit of the species. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



DICHROPLUS Sai. 

 Dichroplus peruvianus Stil. 



1878. Plezotettix] (Dichroplus) veruvianns St§,l Bihang till K. Svenska 

 Vet.-Akad. Handl., V, No 9, p. 7. [Peru.] 



Piches and Perene Valleys, 2,000-3,000 feet, Peru. (Soc. Geog. 

 de Lima.) [U. S. N. M.] Two cf , one 9 . 



Yungas de la Paz, 1,000 meters, Bolivia. [Hebard Collection.] 

 One cf' and one 9 in coitu, one additional 9 . 



Dichroplus amoenus (Stai). 



1878. Plezotettix] (Dichroplus) amoenus Stai, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet. 

 Akad. Handl., V, No. 9, p. 8. [Peru.J 



Minas Geraes, Brazil. 1897. [Hebard Collection.] One 9 . 



This specimen is more greenish than was the case -with the type 

 or types and the tegmina appear more acuminate than originally 

 described. 



Bruner has recorded this species from Cordoba, Argentina. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



NORTH BORDER RELATIONS OF THE TRIASSIC IN PENNSYLVANIA. 

 BY EDGAR T. WHERRY, PH.D. 



The uniform gentle northwest dip of the Triassic Red-beds 

 throughout the greater part of the belt crossing southeastern 

 Pennsylvania has been a subject of comment since the earliest days 

 of study of the region. Henry D. Rogers, in his final report,^ 

 cleverly suggested that it was due to inclined deposition, from 

 northward-flowing waters, such as can be observed in present-day 

 river deltas. The inadequacy of this explanation is made apparent, 

 however, by the evident level-surface origin of the fossil footprints 

 and rain-drop impressions which have since been found, as well 

 as by the fact that in certain places, especially toward the northwest 

 border of the belt, the dips show considerable variations, both in 

 amount and direction. 



No simple process of uplift and folding, however, can account 

 for the relations observed. The fact that thousands of feet of 

 strata exposed in the southern portion of this belt are totally lacking 

 along its northern edge implies that either profound faulting must 

 have occurred there or that progressive overlap on an extensive 

 scale must have accompanied the deposition of the beds. In 

 the course of the writer's studies of the Triassic, carried on at 

 intervals during the past six years, some evidence bearing on this 

 point has been accumulated.- 



As shown elsewhere,^ the Triassic of Pennsylvania can be divided 

 into three formations, which from the base upwards are: the 

 Stockton (Norristown) arkosic sandstone and conglomerate, 5,500 

 feet in maximum thickness, which outcrops along the southern 

 edge of the belt; the Lockatong (Gwynedd) dark shale, which ap- 

 pears as a lens between the other two, 3,500 feet thick at the Dela- 



1 Geology of Pennsylvania, II, p. 814, 18.58. 



- This was presented in abstract at the meeting of the Geological Society 

 of America, December 29, 1911 {Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., XXIII, 745), and at the 

 meeting of the Academy in conjunction with the Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, May 21, 1912 {Proceedings, 1912, p. 156), but is now for the first time 

 published in full. 



3 Age and Correlation of the '"New Red" or Newark Group in Pennsvlvania, 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, pp. 373-379. 




1913.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



115 



ware River, gradually thinning westward, and dying out in northern 

 Chester County, but reappearing north of Lancaster and repre- 

 sented by 1,000 feet of carbonaceous sandstones at the Susquehanna; 

 and the Brunswick red shale and conglomerate, up to 16,000 feet 

 thick, which lies against the older rocks along the northern bound- 

 ary. Although the evidence is not sufficient for definite correlation, 

 it seems probable that these are roughly equivalent to the Bunter, 

 Lower Keuper, and Upper Keuper of Europe, respectively. 



The following sections represent two alternative explanations 

 of the structure of the Triassic basin in this region. 



GENERALIZED STRUCTURE SECTIONS of the TRIAS glC in 

 N PENNSYLVANIA Scale: l,nc/i= 6m,le? 



+- ^ ^ Pre -Trial. 



il-l^^^-t^t-tv'/ 



Section A. Assamir^ A fault Ai The Norfhern Bewndory. 





FVe-Tnassio 



Section B. As-JMinin^ Overlap At The Northern Boundor\^- 



It is believed that Section B most correctly depicts the relation- 

 ships existing through the greater part of the Pennsylvania Triassic 

 area, although in Connecticut and in northern New Jersey sections 

 of the type of A have been thought to accord best with the observed 

 facts. This conclusion is based, first, on studies of the actual 

 contacts exposed along the northern boundary and, second, on 

 certain inferences drawn from features shown by the rocks in other 

 portions of the area. 



While the northern boundary of the Triassic against the older 

 rocks is usually marked by a slight depression and deeply covered 

 by soil, more or less definite contacts can be seen in at least six 

 places, namely, Monroe on the Delaware; Springtown, Bucks 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



County; Boyertown, Berks County; south of Reading, on the 

 Schuylkill; Cornwall, Lebanon County, and on the west bank 

 of the Susquehanna below New Cumberland. The writer's studies 

 have not been extended southwest of the Susquehanna River, 

 but Mr. George W. Stose, of the U. S. Geological Survey, who has 

 traced the line through the Fairfield Quadrangle, states (private 

 communication) that overlap relations occur there also. 



The exposures at Monroe, a small village on the west bank of the 

 Delaware River along the Easton-Philadelphia trolley line, nine 

 miles south of the former place, have been studied and described 

 by Dr. H. B. Kiimmel.^ The Brunswick conglomerate appears 

 to overlie a bluish-gray (probably Cambrian) limestone, although 

 the actual contact is covered by talus, and he regards it as probable 

 that overthrust faulting has occurred. There is admittedly no 

 direct evidence of this, but even if it does exist, it must be of very 

 limited extent, and can have no bearing on the relation of the 

 formations as a whole, because the fault-boundary shown in Section 

 A would be of normal type and many thousands of feet in throw. 

 About 500 feet south of the first exposure a ledge of white rock 

 appears at the base of the trolley cut, and is solidly overlain by the 

 Triassic conglomerate. This may represent only a local phase 

 of the Triassic itself, and, if so, has no significance, but it may also 

 possibly be pre-Triassic limestone, in which case the existence 

 of a fault is out of the question. 



About a mile and a half southeast of Spring-town, Bucks County, 

 five miles southwest of the Delaware, what appears to be a contact 

 is exposed in the bed of a brook. A rounded ledge of a yellowish 

 quartzite similar in all respects to the Cambrian (Hardyston) of 

 the region, at least 12 feet long and 4 feet wide, shows fragments of 

 typical Triassic conglomerate solidly welded to it. It is true that 

 neither rock can be traced to solid connection with the main ex- 

 posures in the vicinity, and the quartzite may not be in place, but 

 it is too large a mass to have been carried far. 



For some twenty miles southwest of this point nothing that can 

 be regarded as. a definite contact has been discovered, and there are 

 reasons for believing that locally slight faults occur, but at several 

 places in the vicinity of Boyertown, Berks County, overlap re- 

 lations are again shown. As noted by Dr. Spencer,^ along the road 



'^Ann. Rept. State Geol. N. J., 1897, pp. Ill, 112. 



5 Magnetite Deposits of the Cornwall Type in Pennsylvania, Bull. U. S. 

 Ceol. Surv., No. 359, p. 64, 1908. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



in the valley of West Swamp Creek, southeast from Bechtelsville, 

 metamorphosed shales — "baked shales which may belong to the 

 Mesozoic" — overlie blue Paleozoic hmestones. The exposure is 

 not a good one, yet there can be no doubt that actual overlap 

 occurs. 



Additional evidence for this vicinity is furnished by a well record 

 described by DTnvilliers^ as follows: "From the Montgomery 

 county line, at A. Schultz's house, [three miles northeast of Bech- 

 telsville] .... to the north border of the Mesozoic, is a distance 

 of 6,400 feet; the average dip, 30°; calculated thickness of Mesozoic 

 at Schultz's, 3,000 feet; nevertheless, Mr. Schultz's water well 

 struck the limestone floor beneath the Mesozoic at less than 200 

 feet." The supposed outlying patch of limestone, "left bare by the 

 denudation of the thin covering of red shale" (ibid., p. 205) appears, 

 however, to be a calcareous conglomerate bed in the Triassic itself. 



In the extensive Boj^ertown iron mines the limestones bearing the 

 ore were everywhere found to underlie the Triassic beds.^ 



Continuing southwestward twelve miles, there is again evidence of 

 the existence of a local fault, as pointed out by the writer elsewhere,^- 

 but in a trolley cut about a mile from the Schuylkill River an appar- 

 ent overlap is poorly exposed, and then at the Big Dam, northwest 

 of Neversink Station, is the erosion contact described by Rogers.^ 

 Here a fissure in the limestone into which pebbles of the conglomer- 

 ate had been washed was formerly exposed. At present the quarry 

 shows conglomerate composed of but slightly rounded limestone 

 pebbles cemented together by a minimum quantity of red mud 

 resting on a somewhat brecciated limestone, into the cracks of which 

 more or less red mud has percolated, so that it requires very close 

 examination to make out the real contact. In the old iron mine 

 on Fritz's Island, around the bend in the river, and at the Wheat- 

 field mine, seven miles to the west, ore-bearing limestone and sand- 

 stone were found l^eneath the Triassic beds as at Boyertown.i° 



At the great Cornwall iron mine, in Lebanon County, twenty 

 miles further west, Triassic conglomerate overlies, on the south 



® Geology of the South Mountain Belt of Berks County, Second Penna. Geol. 

 Surv. RepL D3, II, pt. 1, p. 200, 1883. 



'Spencer, op. cit., pp. 43-60. 



^ Contributions to the Mineralogy of the Newark Group in Pennsylyania, 

 Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Science, Phila., VII, pp. 1-23, 1910. 



3 Geology of Pennsylvania., II, p. 681, and fig. 568, 1858. 



loD'Inyilhers, op. cit., pp. 336, 337, and 346. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



side, the Paleozoic strata bearing the ore/^ and, since diamond 

 drilling has shown that ore extends well under this cover, the Middle 

 Hill workings are now being extended in that direction. Spencers- 

 discussed the probability of there having been progressive overlap 

 here, and published several cross-sections exhibiting this relation. 



The last exposure of this contact found by the writer is twenty 

 miles west of Cornwall, on the west bank of the Susquehanna River, 

 one and a half miles below the town of New Cumberland. Here, 

 in the Northern Central Railroad cut, the Triassic conglomerate 

 is in solid contact with the limestone, and specimens sho\ving a 

 ''welding" of the two were secured. The plane of contact here 

 slopes more steeply than usual, perhaps 45° to the south, while 

 the conglomerate beds dip about 20° northward. 



It thus appears that all along the line through Pennsylvania 

 the highest beds of the Triassic, usually coarse-grained conglomer- 

 ates, overlap upon the older rocks — limestones, quartzites, and 

 gneisses. The few faults which can be recognized are too limited 

 in extent to have any bearing on the question as to the position 

 of the beds as a whole. 



That the several formations of the Triassic were not deposited 

 regularly and evenly on top of one another can also be inferred from 

 the observed lack of anything like metamorphism — cementation, 

 induration, crystallization — of the lowermost (Stockton) beds. 

 Had these ever been buried beneath the whole 20,000 feet of the 

 two overlying formations, the temperature would necessarily have 

 been raised so high and opportunities for chemical action have 

 become so great, that some changes would surely have been pro- 

 duced. Again, the Stockton is known to thin rapidly northward. 

 Its thickness along the southern edge of the belt, toward the eastern 

 end, is as great as 5,500 feet, but where brought to the surface by 

 the Buckingham Mountain fault (the Flemington fault of New 

 Jersey), ten miles further north, it is only about 2,000 feet. 



It is therefore believed that in the portion of the Triassic basin 

 crossing eastern Pennsylvania the locus of deposition of the beds 

 was gradually shifted northward during the course of the period, 

 so that the successive formations overlapped more and more to the 

 north, the basin being deepened by down-warping rather than by 

 faulting, as brought out by Section B. 



11 Lesley and D'Invilliers, Ann. Rept. Second Penna. Geol. Sun\, 1885, pp. 

 491-570. 



'■-Op. cit., pp. 20, 21, pi. III. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



It has several times been mentioned above that the uppermost 

 beds of the Triassic are, in general, conglomerates. But as this term 

 may cover rocks of quite a variety of characters and origins, it seems 

 worth while to describe them more definitelj'. For this purpose 

 those developed along the northern boundary for twentj^ miles 

 westward from the Delaware River have been selected, since they 

 are believed to be typical of the formation, and since, by reason 

 of their accessibility, it has been found possible to study them in the 

 greatest detail. 



The most striking feature of the Triassic area in northern Bucks 

 and southern Northampton and Lehigh Counties is the occurrence 

 of rather prominent hills, the highest attaining 980 feet above tide, 

 or 500 feet above the usual level of the red-shale region, and ex- 

 ceeding those formed by both the diabase and gneiss, usually 

 regarded as the. most resistant of rocks, in the immediate vicinity. 

 On these hills, in spite of deep dissection and frequent steep slopes, 

 very few exposures of rock in place are found, although the soil is 

 strewn with boulders and pebbles of pink-stained quartzite. This 

 material has been previously interpreted in three ways, as Cambrian 

 (Chickies or Hardyston), Ordovician (Shawangunk or Green Pond), 

 and metamorphosed Triassic. The present view of the matter is 

 that, while the quartzite of the pebbles is actually of the second of 

 these ages, the pebl^les themselves are not of recent origin, but 

 have weathered out of a conglomerate belonging to the ordinary, 

 unmetamorphosed Triassic series. 



This conclusion has been reached as follows: At a few places 

 along the hill slopes and at two localities where prospecting for 

 copper has been carried on, the rock can be seen in pl'ace. It consists 

 of a soft red mud ground mass in which are imbedded pebbles of all 

 sizes up to two feet in diameter, but mostly around three inches, 

 rudely but evidently assorted and stratified. The largest and most 

 thoroughly rounded of these consist of a gray to pink quartzite, 

 often in itself conglomeratic — containing white quartz grains up to 

 half an inch across, and occasional flakes of graj^ slate. These 

 quartzite pebbles are usually stained deep red by a film of hematite, 

 which penetrates the cracks and spreads out around them in rounded, 

 imperfectly dendritic patches. At the copper prospects above 

 mentioned thej-also show abundant malachite stains, which in at 

 least one specimen seemed to be derived by weathering of a copper 

 sulfide originally imbedded in the quartzite itself, but now leached 

 out, leaving tiny holes. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Lithologically, this quartzite is in every way identical with 

 the Shawangunk, which forms Blue Mountain twenty miles away 

 to the north, and with the Green Pond conglomerate of the same age, 

 occurring in the highlands of northern New Jersey. Not only 

 does this similarity cover the general features of the rock, but it 

 extends down to such small details as the extent of the silicification 

 visible under the microscope, the inclusion of the gray slate flakes, 

 and the occasional presence of copper sulfides (chalcocite?) in 

 minute disseminated grains, just as occurs at the Pahaquarry copper 

 mine on Blue Mountain, eight miles northeast of the Delaware 

 Water Gap. And since there is no other formation anywhere 

 in the region of at all similar lithologic character, there w^ould seem 

 to be no reasonable doubt as to the correctness of this interpretation. 



In addition to these quartzite pebbles, limestone fragments 

 are often present in the conglomerates, locally forming almost the 

 only constituent of the rock. These are usually less well rounded 

 than the quartzite, and, in fact, are often so angular that the rock 

 should be termed a breccia. When exposed to atmospheric agencies 

 they have usually weathered out, leaving a peculiar-looking cellular 

 rock. Nothing has been observed to indicate that these limestone 

 pebbles are of different type from the Paleozoic (Cambrian and Lower 

 Ordovician) strata exposed in the valleys to the north; in fact, 

 streaks of the black chert so frequently present in these beds have 

 been noted in some of the pebbles. Along with the limestone peb- 

 bles are also abundant flakes of a greenish schistose material, which 

 resembles the sericite partings developed in the limestones in many 

 places, occasional beds of the conglomerate being made up of nothing 

 but overlapping chips of this schist. 



Again in some places, gneiss pebbles are present in considerable 

 numbers, several of the types now exposed in the hills to the north 

 being represented. These, like the limestone fragments, are only 

 imperfectly rounded, and they have also weathered on the surface to 

 some extent, although perfectly fresh when seen in recent artificial 

 exposures, as along the trolley line south of Monroe, on the Dela- 

 ware River. 



On descending the hill slopes it is found that the pebbles in the 

 soil become gradually fewer in number, and finally give way to 

 frost-shattered shale fragments, as roughly indicated on the 

 map by the small circles. There is practically no decrease in 

 the sizes of the pebbles going outward from the centers of the hills, 

 and absolutely nothing like a gradation from the conglomerates 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



through finer and finer sandstones to the ordinary Brunswick shales. 

 The same red sandy mud makes up the bulk of both rocks, the pebbles 

 having simply been dropped into it while still soft. Similar rela- 

 tions appear in four distinct areas, all of the same general type, 

 although the shape of outcrop is modified by diabase intrusions 

 and local variations in the dip of the usually practically horizontal 

 beds. 



That these conglomerates have been deposited chiefly under water 

 is shown by the stratification and assorting of the pebbles, rough 

 though it may be, and by the occurrence of interbedded thin lami- 

 nated shales, which show such features as ripple marks and rill marks. 

 That the water was fresh is indicated by the absence of marine 

 fossils, and perhaps by the red color of the mud. The source, mode 

 of transportation, and of deposition of the pebbles remain to be 

 considered. 



Three possibilities at once suggest themselves: we may be dealing 

 with either talus broken from cliffs by wave or frost action, alluvial 

 fans, or glacial moraines. 



The first view, that the pebbles are talus blocks, was accepted 

 by Dr. KiimmeP^ in the New Jersey area. 



This conclusion is, however, quite inapplicable in the present 

 localities, for it is very evident that the nature of the pebbles bears 

 in general no relation to the character of the rock against which 

 the conglomerate lies. Dr. Kiimmel had observed the same thing, 

 and explained it as due to faulting, but, as shown above, this does 

 not occur in the present region. Gneiss pebbles are found most 

 abundantly at Momoe, where the floor is limestone, and limestone 

 pebbles west of Coopersburg, where the underlying rock is gneiss. 

 Indeed, there is now no outcrop of Shawangunk quartzite, such as 

 forms the majority of the pebbles, within twenty miles (although, 

 of course, it may have extended somewhat farther south in Triassic 

 times). Further, the fact that the limestone :s less rounded than 

 the much harder quartzite is just the opposite of what would be ob- 

 served in talus heaps rounded by wave action, but can be explained 

 according to the principle that the degree of rounding increases 

 with the distance of transportation, for the limestone rocks from 

 which the pebbles may have been derived outcrop nearly everywhere 

 within a mile or two of the edge of the basin. 



The application of the criteria for the recognition of alluvial- 



" Ann. Rept. State Geologist of N. J., 1897, pp. 52-58. 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



fan deposits, as recently summed up by Trowbridge," to the present 

 occurrences shows the improbability of their having had such an 

 origin; the majority of the pebbles are too well rounded and as- 

 sorted. In fact, the stratification is quite definite, and the pebbles 

 have apparently been transported and deposited by some agent 

 which did not disturb the soft red mud now forming the cement 

 of the conglomerate. 



The possible glacial-moraine origin of similar Triassic conglomer- 

 ate deposits in other regions has been advanced, in some form or 

 other, by various writers. W. M. Fontaine^^ discussed it elaborately 

 and found no difficulty in reconciling the (supposed) deposition 

 of the bulk of the strata in a ''mild, equable and moist climate" 

 in the lovi^lands, with the collection of "unUmited supplies of snow" 

 and ''its discharge in the form of glaciers" on the "lofty mountain 

 belt of the Appalachians." And many others had come to agree 

 \vith this view. I. C. Russell, ^^ after reviewing the evidence, stated 

 that " the absence of glacial records seems to warrant the conclusion 

 that glaciers did not enter the basins in which the Newark rocks 

 were deposited. It does not follow, however, that the Appalachians 

 were not occupied by local glaciers. The suggestion that those 

 mountains were higher in the Newark period than now and were 

 covered with perennial snow, while the adjacent lowlands enjoyed 

 a mild climate, seems an attractive and very possible hypothesis, 

 but definite evidence as to its verity has not been obtained. The 

 proof that the climate of the Atlantic slope during the Newark period 

 resembled that of Italy at the present day, with glaciers on the 

 neighboring mountains, must be looked for in the drainage and 

 sculpturing of the mountains, and the character and distribution 

 of the debris washed from them. A period of long decay preceding 

 the birth of the Appalachian glaciers would have prepared land to 

 furnish abundant debris when the faciUties for transportation 

 were augmented." 



In late years the idea that the red color of sediments is connected 

 with their deposition in more or less arid climates, has gradually 

 been gaining ground, and as other evidence appeared to favor 



" The Terrestrial Deposits of Owens Valley, California, Jour. Geol., XIX, 

 706-747, 1911. 



'^ Notes on the Mesozoic strata of Virginia, Amer. Jour. Sci., [3] XVII, pp. 

 236, 237, 1879. 



1^ Correlation papers — The Newark System, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. No. 85, 

 pp. 50-53, 1892. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



such a view of the orighi of the bulk of the Triassic/^ Russell's 

 ''attractive and very possible hypothesis" of glaciation of the 

 Appalachian Mountains in that period has been practically forgotten. 

 It is the writer's belief, however, that "the character and distribu- 

 tion of the debris" forming the conglomerate beds under discussion 

 constitutes a verj^ good argument for its revival. 



That the pebbles and boulders were carried down into the Triassic 

 basin along certain definite channels is clearly indicated by the 

 shapes and positions of the conglomerate masses. Something, in 

 fact, can be made out as to the possible routes along which they 

 came. In this region at present the position of streams is controlled 

 to a certain extent by fault or joint systems. Since most of these 

 structural features are, however, evidently pre-Triassic, it is reason- 

 able to suppose that similar depressions existed there then and 

 became at times river channels. It can readily be seen on the map 

 that stream routes (marked by heavj^ dotted lines) do actually 

 strike the edge of the Triassic belt at or near the centers of the several 

 conglomerate masses, although of course changes of geography 

 since that period have altered the actual direction of the drainage 

 and superficial features. But the boulders in the conglomerates 

 are too large to have been carried by any streams flowing in these 

 channels at the present day and, indeed, as shown above, torrential 

 alluvial-fan origin is improbable. Russell's arguments against a direct 

 glacial origin being also valid, as far as all later observations go, 

 apparently only one possible mode of formation remains — trans- 

 portation by floating ice. 



Evidence favoring this view has been unexpectedly obtained in 

 the course of field work to the southwest of HellertowTi. The 

 Saucon Valley, a broad limestone plain which lies to the north of 

 the Triassic highland here, contains extensive deposits of what is 

 regarded as extra-morainic drift. It is believed that in late Quater- 

 nary glacial times the Lehigh River was temporarily dammed back 

 and formed a lake— locally called Lake Packer — whose surface 

 reached a height of 450 feet above tide, and which therefore spread 

 over much of Saucon Valley. Floating ice, breaking off from the 

 front of the great glacier, which extended on the Lehigh only to 

 White Haven, over fifty miles north of the present region, came down 

 stream, and some of it was carried by currents around into the 

 Saucon Valley Bay. As this ice gradually melted, numerous well- 



1- Cf. Lull, R. S., The Life of the Connecticut Trias, Amer. Jour. ScL, [4] XXXIII, 

 pp. 397-422, 1912, and the writer, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, pp. 371, 372. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March^ 



rounded pebbles and boulders of various Paleozoic rocks, chiefly 

 quartzites, derived from the mountains to the north, were deposited 

 in a rudely stratified sheet over the valley floor in sufficient quantity 

 to almost completely cover the underlying limestone rock.^* 



At the south side of the valley such drift extends just up to the 

 Triassic contact, and many of the drift boulders are essentially 

 similar in size, shape, and degree of rounding to those weathered 

 from the Triassic conglomerate, and in fact can only be distinguished 

 by the color, which is yellow or brown instead of red. 



If there were in Triassic times glaciers in the mountains, they 

 must have formed terminal moraines, and drift from these would 

 naturally be occasionally transported on cakes of ice do'v\Ti the 

 streams issuing from the glaciers, and be dropped whenever this 

 ice melted. Some could not fail to be carried out into the shallow 

 lakes or ponds in which the Triassic red muds were being deposited, 

 and would then be dropped into this mud without disturbing its 

 stratification, as we actually find to be the case. Again, as the 

 distance out from the margin of the basin to which the pebbles 

 would be carried have nothing to do with their size, but only with 

 the size of the ice blocks and the resulting rate of melting, they 

 should simply become fewer in numbers, rather than less in size, 

 toward the center of the basin. As noted above, this is exactly 

 what does occur. 



It is not intended to imply that all of the materials of these 

 conglomerates had this origin. The smaller, subangular limestone 

 and gneiss pebbles and the green shale-flakes were, no doubt, car- 

 ried largely by direct stream action. But the writer feels convinced 

 that the features shown by the great mass of quartzite boulders 

 constitute a good indication of the correctness of Fontaine's and 

 Russell's theory that glaciers existed in the Appalachian Moun- 

 tains during late Triassic times. 



Summary. 



The shape of outcrop and structure of the three subdivisions of 

 the Pennsylvania Triassic implies either a profound fault on the 

 north side of the basin or progressive overlap in that direction on 

 an extensive scale. The latter view is shown to be the most satis- 

 factory one in this region. The conglomerates developed along 



^^ Williams, E. H., Extra-morainic drift between the Delaware and the Schuyl- 

 kill, Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., V, 281-296, 1894. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



the north border are found to show features which suggest the 

 transportation of a considerable part of their materials by ice 

 floating in streams arising from the melting of glaciers in the Appa- 

 lachian Mountains to the north. 



Explanation of Plate III. 



Map of the north border of the Triassic in Bucks, Northampton and Lehigh 

 Counties, Pennsylvania, showing distribution of the border conglomerates and 

 hypothetical stream channels of Triassic times. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



A STUDY OF METAZOAN PARASITES FOUND IN THE PHILADELPHIA 

 ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS. 



BY FRED. D. WEIDMAN, M.D. 



The first part of this communication deals with certain statistics 

 regarding all the parasitic worms found in the Gardens; the second, 

 \nth separate species which have been of economic, scientific, or 

 passing interest. 



Part I. 



The statistics which follow have been compiled from autopsy 

 protocols at the Laboratory of Comparative Pathology of the Phila- 

 delphia Zoological Gardens. The autopsies number 2,807, and ex- 

 tend from November 25, 1901, to January 1, 1913. They were 

 performed with care, especially those on the larger animals. All 

 mammalia and aves dying were examined. Only a few of the 

 reptilia received attention. The organs were not extensively 

 dissected or examined microscopically. They were closely scru- 

 tinized grossly, and if occasion warranted microscopical sections 

 were made. For these reasons many of the smallest parasites 

 have been missed, and this may explain the small number of flukes 

 appearing in our tables. 



The table opposite shows roughly an average of (excluding 1901- 

 1905, when the parasites were not especially searched for) 45 

 infestations per year. In 1910 there was a rise due to cestodes in 

 birds, and again a rise in 1911 which we trace across to nematodes- — 

 again in birds. Referring to the General Parasitological Table II, 

 nematode column, we find that of the aves it is the Psittaci and 

 Passeres which are responsible for the latter rise. Our detailed 

 Psittaci records now lead us to a certain worm, Spiroptera incerta. 

 This worm was apprehended, however, long before these tables 

 were compiled. This table led us to investigate the Passeres which 

 show 33 nematodes. A coiled Filaria in the serosa of the proven- 

 tricle was revealed. We propose to investigate it in the near future 

 It is probably Filaria pnngens. 



Table I is more of local than general scientific value. It shows 

 the incidence of parasites by years, and enables us to trace to its 

 source an}' special increase of infestation that may occur in the 

 Gardens. 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



127 



General Parasitological Table I. 

 Showing Infestation by All Parasites by Years. 



Nema- 

 todes. 



Acantho- 

 cephalus. 



Ces- Trema- Unclas- I rp , , 

 todes. todes. ! sified. ^°*^'- 



1901-1904: 

 Mammalia.. 



Reptilia 



Aves 



Total 



1905: 

 Mammalia.. 



Reptilia 



Aves 



Total 



1906: 

 Mammalia.. 



Reptilia 



Aves 



Total 



1907: 

 Mammalia.. 



Reptilia 



Aves 



Total 



1908: 

 Mammalia.. 



Reptilia 



Aves 



Total 



1909: 

 Mammalia.. 



Reptilia 



Aves 



Total 



1910: 

 Mammalia.. 



Reptilia 



Aves 



Total 



1911: 

 Mammalia... 



Reptilia 



Aves 



Total 



1912: 

 Mammalia... 



Reptilia 



Aves 



Total 



11 

 2 

 9 



— 22 



12 



1 

 21 



— .34 



4 



3 



26 



3.3 



34 



39 



14 



— 32 



12 

 2 



.50 



— 64 



37 



301 



12 



10 



23 



93 



— 2 



12 



9 1 



-15 — 1 



23 



52 



42 



46 



46 



47 



■ 57 



81 



53 



3a 435 



1 The years referred to are tte fiscal years of the Gardens ending March 1, 

 except the last— 1912— which we have made to end on January 1, 1913. 




128 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



General Parasitological Table II. 

 Showing Avian Orders Affected. 



General Parasitological Table III. 

 Showing Mammalian Orders Affected. 



Table III shows that of mammals the Carnivora are by far the 

 most heavily infested order. Primates, Ungulata, and Marsupialia 

 are about even for second place. 



General Parasitological Table IV. 

 Showing Reptilia Affected. 



The data on reptiles are not of value on account of the small 

 numbers, but are included here for the sake of record. 




1913.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



129" 



The summary shows, as to the relative numbers of worms, that 

 nematodes are far the commonest; then come the cestodes, flukes, 

 and Acanthocephali in order named. This is the usual order given 

 in text-books. It seems, however, that our summary shows too 

 great a disproportion between the nematodes and cestodes, due 

 doubtless to the endemic of nematode Spiroptera in the parrots. 

 Excluding those, a ratio of two nematodes to one cestode is obtained. 

 This would appear to express about the proper relationship, which 

 now holds good in both birds and mammals. 



Tables have also been made shoeing the location of the parasites 

 in the different mammalian and avian orders, and in reptiles, as 

 follows : 



General Parasitological Table VI. 

 Site of Infestation. 



Aves. 



Alectorides ' |.... 



Columbffi j I.... 



PicariJB [.... 



Gavise L. 



Steganopodes ' 1 



Fulicarise 



Striges 



Psittaci 109 



Herodiones 



Galli 



Anseres 



Accipitres 



LimicoljE 



2 



2 



2 



1 



9 1 



1 2 



9 10 



9 

 1 

 1 



6 



2 



118 



27 

 10 



8 

 7 



1 



Totals 1 1 !l49; 6 63 1 ! 1 



1 14 13 267 



Six duplications, i.e., more than one parasite found in different organs of 

 same bird. 

 9 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



General Parasitological Table VII, 



[March, 



Twelve duplications. 



General Parasitological Table VIII. 



One duplication. 



General Parasitological Table IX. 

 Summary of Location of Parasites. 



Number of duplications, 19. 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILAt)ELPHIA. 



131 



111 the summary, Table IX, the accepted predommance of in- 

 testinal parasites is shown. The next most frequently affected organ 

 is the stomach. The peritoneum comes next, due to the presence 

 of Filarise, which also account for the fourth position of the blood. 



Part II. 



Spiroptera incerta (Smith). 



This worm has been encountered 119 times, as follows: 

 Table X. 



Parrots 



Blue-headed Pigeons 

 Ashy-headed Barbet 

 Banded Toucan . 

 Green glossy Starling 

 Sulphur-breasted Toucan 

 Barbary Turtle Dove 

 White-crowned Pigeon 

 White-throated (^uail 

 Transvaal Barbet 

 Himalayan Jay... 

 Double-striped Thicknce 

 Natal Francolin.. 

 Larger hill Mynah 



102 

 3 

 1 

 2 

 1 

 2 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 



119 



Since the greatest number occurred in parrots, our attention has 

 been especially called to those birds. In fact, our work on this 

 parasite of parrots has constituted bj^ far the greatest part of our 

 studies in metazoan parasitology" at the Gardens. 



The appended table shows the exact findings since March 1, 1906: 




132 



PROCEfiDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[]\Iarch, 



Spiroptera Table XL 

 Deaths from Spiroptera among Psittaci. 



Year ending. Verminous. 



Not 

 verminous. 



Total Per cent. ! Total number 

 from all dying with of Psittaci in 

 causes. I worms, i collection. 



Mar. 1, 1906 3 



Mar. 1, 1907 16 



Mar. 1, 1908 17 



Mar. 1, 1909 20 



Mar. 1, 1910 10 



Mar. 1, 1911 12 



Mar. 1, 1912 24 



Jan. 1, 1913 11 



Total 113 



Not obtainable 



132 

 139 

 137 



268 



381 



30 



408 



As will be noted, an average of 30 per cent, of all parrots coming 

 to autopsy harbored these worms. Is it the parasite which has 

 caused death, or is this simply an example of commensalism which 

 is so common in the lower animals? 



We find (consulting our Table XI) that the percentage of birds 

 dying with worms is fairly constant, except for the year ending 

 1909, and excluding 1906 when the cases were beginning to be 

 recognized. This wouM indicate at first sight that the verminous 

 cases were only incidents, that 30 per cent, of our birds had harmless 

 worms which appeared at autopsy when the bird died from inter- 

 current disease. 



To throw further light on the subject a curve was prepared 

 showing deaths of Psittaci by months. Again there is a rough 

 parallellism between the curves of verminous and non-verminous 

 birds. The charts then would exculpate the parasite. 



Now let us consider the opposed evidence. It will be brought out 

 later that we have examined every parrot in the parrot-house and 

 found 14 per cent, of our living parrots verminous. What does 

 this mean? Correlating"^this finding with our statistics, we have 

 established two facts: 



(1) 14 per cent, of our living parrots are verminous. 



(2) 30 per cent, of all parrots dying in a year are found verminous. 

 See Spiroptera, Table XI. 



A greater percentage (in fact, proportionally twice as many) 

 of our verminous birds die as do non-verminous. To consider a 

 specific instance, suppose our bird-house contain 140 live parrots — 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



A. From (1) above, 14 per cent, of our living parrots would be 

 verminous, 20 birds. 



B. 86 per cent, of our living parrots would be non-verminous, 

 120 birds. 



Suppose at the end of the year there had been 50 deaths (average 

 for 7 years). 



C. From (2) above, 30 per cent, would be verminous, 15 birds. 



D. Then 70 per cent, would be non-verminous, 35 birds. 



From A and C — Out of 20 living verminous birds 15 deaths re- 

 sulted, 75 per cent. 



From B and D — Out of 120 living non-verminous birds 35 deaths 

 resulted, 30 per cent. 



The mortality is more than twice as great for living verminous 

 parrots than for non-verminous. 



This is one point against the innocence of Spiroptera incerta. 

 Our second witness is the autopsy picture. 



The Parasite. — It has been described in detail by Dr. Allen J. 

 Smith as a new species in his Sytwpsis of Studies in Metazoan Para- 

 sitology. Briefly, the mature female averages 14 mm. in length 

 by 0.6 mm. in diameter. It is rigid, of a dead or yellow-white color. 

 The male is distinctly smaller. They vary in numbers from two 

 to a hundred or more. The usual number is twenty or thirty. 

 They may be found in a ball of mucus in the lumen of the pro- 

 ventricle or burrowing into the mucosa. The smallest (larval) 

 forms are often found under the thick chitinous lining of the gizzard. 

 The Host.— In severe infestations the bird is emaciated. It 

 sometimes emits a wheezing sound (not pneumonia) or passes mucus 

 from mouth or nostril. Often the droppings have been abnormally 

 copious, and when mucus is admixed (as it often is) infestation 

 has been foretold. 



The Lesion. — Even where there are but a few worms (4-6) in the 

 proventricle, the swelling is prominent. Diagnosis can be made as 

 soon as the body cavity is opened. On opening the organ the mucosa 

 is found necrotic and overlaid by mucus. The worms, if pulled out 

 by forceps and relaid on the mucus promptly burrow into it and 

 disappear. Where the worms are numerous the viscus is enormously 

 distended, even exceeding the gizzard in size. The heart is pushed 

 far to the right, the gizzard placed so low as to press on the cloaca. 

 In one case a perforation had occurred, and seeds and worms were 

 found in the air sacs. On section the mucosa is necrotic, destroyed. 

 The wall of the viscus may be so thin as to be translucent. The 




134 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF []\Iarch, 



lumen is occluded by the necrotic and mucoid debris. Microscopic- 

 ally the mucosa is in part or wholly necrotic and the parasite may 

 be found burrowing even close to the muscularis. The only reactive 

 inflammation seen is around the nerves, where a round-cell infil- 

 tration sometimes occurs. 



Necrogenesis. — From the clinical and postmortem findings it would 

 seem that a variety of agencies are operative in causing death. Where 

 the parasites are in small numbers in a large bird they are probably 

 not the cause of death. Occlusion of the proventricular lumen 

 probably plays a minor part by retarding food ingestion. Much 

 more important is the destruction of the mucosa of this (for birds) 

 important digestive organ. In fact, it has been called the glandular 

 stomach in contradistinction to the muscular stomach or gizzard. 



This probably accounts for the emaciation seen clinically. Theo- 

 retically, this worm might elaborate a toxic material, as does the 

 fish tapeworm of man, which may act as an irritant on im- 

 portant vital organs. Such irritation was seen in a chronic 

 form around nerves in one of our microscopic sections. Dis- 

 placements of organs noted above (heart by pressure, gizzard 

 by weight of superjacent pro ventricle) could easily contribute to 

 the end. It is our belief at present that only a part of the cases 

 listed as verminous died as a result of spiropteriasis : that the cases 

 showing a few worms and not much tissue destruction died from inter- 

 current diseases, but that others, those so greatly emaciated, with 

 occluded lumina, pressure upon the heart and destruction of mucosa, 

 undoubtedly diqd as a result of the presence of these worms. 



Our autopsy shows alterations of important structures, extensive 

 enough and serious enough to incriminate the parasites in spite of 

 the evidence of our tables and charts. This fact, considered with 

 Spiroptera Table XI, shows the worm to be of economic importance. 



In studying this endemic we have worked along three lines: 



I. To devise a practical method whereby infested birds might be 

 discovered and isolated. 



II. To determine the life history of the worm. This is most 

 important from a hygienic and prophylactic standpoint. 



III. To discover a therapeutic agent. 



Diagnosis. 

 We feel that we have been successful in our first task. 

 The external appearances were never sufficiently characteristic 

 to lead to exact diagnosis. Some birds, even though passing enormous 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



numbers of ova, were in good feather. Others showed symptoms like 

 any sick bird — feathers ruffled, head hung down, eyes closed. 

 Several cases, however, showed suggestive symptoms. They extended 

 the neck as though attempting to vomit. A macaw passed a frothy 

 material from the mouth. Another bird which did not have pneu- 

 monia emitted a wheezing sound. Some of the birds produced 

 droppings in larger quantity than their mates, and where these 

 contained mucus, as they often do, we have foretold infestation. 

 But these signs were so inconstant that laboratory chagnosis became 

 necessary. 



The only avenues to diagnosis would seem to be the blood, urine, 

 droppings, stomach contents, and temperature. Some time has been 

 spent investigating the blood, but so many technical difficulties 

 arose and so much time was required that this means was abandoned. 



Experiments were also performed toward the production of emesis 

 and the recovery of the worms in the vomitus. Preliminary experi- 

 ments on pigeons were successful. One-tenth of a grain of apomor- 

 phine hypodermically caused regurgitation of food. This was 

 probably only from the crop, as no stones accompanied the grain. 

 An amazon received one-fifth of a grain of apomorphine hypo- 

 dermically. Excited talking, laughter, and some dizziness resulted, 

 but no emesis. 



An attempt was then made to draw out the proventricular con- 

 tents mechanically. This failed, as a small catheter used as a stom- 

 ach-tube could be introduced only as far as the crop, as demonstrated 

 upon a dead parrot. 



The urine is evidently useless for diagnosis when we consider 

 the anatomy of the avian excretory apparatus. Temperature 

 determinations would require manipulations which the smaller birds 

 could not stand. 



The droppings remain as our sole means of diagnosis. The parasitic 

 ova are not easily found. The excreta of birds contain more waste than 

 human dejecta, where everything is generally in a finely granular 

 condition. The droppings are laden with such quantities of vegetable 

 cells, colored by chlorophyl, that they quite hide the ova unless the 

 latter are in such great numbers as not to be lost by high dilutions. 

 Efforts to dissolve this foreign matter have been ineffectual. It 

 was not digested by pancreatin overnight in an incubator. Boil- 

 ing with antiformin, while ineffective, broke up the cloddy particles 

 of the droppings, clarified the vegetable cells, and dissolved the 

 mucus and urates. Much of the chlorophyl was extracted. Our 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



routine practice is now to boil droppings for five minutes in 10 per cent, 

 potassium hydroxide, shake one minute, boil three minutes, centrifuge 

 for one minute. Two portions of the sediment are examined for ova 

 under the f lens, one from the surface and one from the bottom. The 

 preparation of each specimen examined in lots of ten requires five 

 minutes. The examination under the lens requires ten minutes 

 , where no ova are present. When present they are detected usually 

 in less than one minute, although one case was diagnosed only after 

 eight minutes. The total time for examining one bird is thus fifteen 

 minutes. A mechanical stage is used and the entire wet specimen 

 is gone over. 



•With a view to decreasing the amount of debris, the birds have 

 been starved for twelve, in the case of smaller birds, or, in the 

 case of larger ones, twenty-four hours. The droppings are collected 

 during the subsequent twelve hours. That this is a necessary 

 procedure has been shown in subsequent examinations of these 

 same birds where they have not been starved. In every case the 

 eggs are more concentrated where the bird has l:een starved. This 

 was shown practically in the case of a green-cheeked amazon which 

 was passed as not verminous during our preliminary experiments 

 without starving, but detected after starving. 



Employing the method outhned above (for convenience called 

 "the improved method"), every bird in the parrot-house was exam- 

 ined. The birds were first moved to a separate building. The 

 parrot-house was then thoroughly fumigated with formaldehyde, 

 the cages galvanized and new stands erected. Birds whose drop- 

 pings showed ova were isolated in the infirmary. The others were 

 sent to the parrot-house. Those removed to the infirmary were 

 again examined by improved method without starving, to guard 

 against a possible clerical error by which the specimens might 

 have been mixed. 



As a result of the examination of all of our parrots, twenty were 

 detected and isolated (14 per cent.). These twenty birds have been 

 used for subsequent experimentation. Some, too, have been kept 

 in an open cage exposed to the weather. For these reasons it is 

 unfair to compare the mortality of these verminous birds with that 

 of the non-verminous at the parrot-house. If such a comparison 

 could be fairly made it would furnish valuable evidence regarding 

 the criminality of the worm, as discussed earlier in this paper. 



As these birds died they were posted, and in all cases the worms 

 were found in the proventricle. We have found that our technique 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



is very accurate. Mexican conure (P. Z. G. No. 2,599) showed at 

 autopsy a solitary female and a solitary male worm, yet it was 

 detected, January 31, 1912. Two ova in one slide. We have been 

 particularly gratified by the subsequent showing of the parrot- 

 house. Out of 23 birds dying during the last nine months, not one 

 has shown worms. 



Life History. — The determination of the life cycle of this worm 

 would be of scientific and prophylactic value. In only one, Spirojj- 

 tera sanguinolenta, has the life cycle been worked out. From a 

 hygienic standpoint, such a determination would be valuable by 

 ascertaining : 



1. Mode of transmission from bird to bird. 



2. Time elapsing between ingestion of ovum and development 

 of sexually mature female. 



As long as we have to rely upon finding ova in the droppings, 

 we will not be able to detect those birds ^\ath immature worms. 

 If we can determine the time elapsing between ingestion of egg and 

 maturity of female we will have determined the period of time 

 during which to quarantine new arrivals, who, while not showing 

 ova in droppings, may nevertheless harbor immature worms. The 

 determination of this point would also give us the intervals at which 

 to reexamine the parrots which have been passed as healthy to 

 the parrot -house. In the absence of this knowledge we run a certain 

 risk. Future reexaminations will have to be made at quite ar- 

 bitrary intervals until this developmental period is determined. 

 Now that each inmate of the parrot-house has been examined and 

 passed, any cases developing or dying there with worms will throw 

 new light on the subject. 



We have inquired into the life history of the worms bj^ trying to 

 grow them in artificial media and in experimental birds. 



Ova from proventricular slime of a bird dead with Spiroptera 

 were placed in various nutrient media (bouillon, condensation water 

 of blood serum media), tap water, and weak alkaline and acid solu- 

 tions. These were kept at various temperatures. One series at 

 room temperature, another at 37.5°, and a third at the temperature 

 of a bird's body (41°). They were examined daily. On the sixth 

 day larval worms could be seen issuing from the eggs in tap water 

 at room temperature. They did not hatch in the acid solution, 

 but did appear sporadically in the other solutions at room tempera- 

 ture. The larvse may be extruded either through the side or the 

 end of the egg. One wonders how so large a worm could be coiled 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March^ 



in such a small shell. The disappointing factor is the sluggish 

 action of the larva. It is encased in a well-marked sheath and while 

 hatching has a languid swaying motion. When hatched its motion 

 is scarcely more than a quiver. By the time it has been hatched 

 an hour all motion has ceased. Beyond this stage we have seen no 

 development. In 10 to 14 days the worm grows paler, faintly 

 granular and disintegrates. 



Supposing that some agent was necessary to dissolve the sheath 

 and liberate the larva, weak solutions of HCL and sodium bicar- 

 bonate were applied, but to no avail. At the suggestion of Dr. Fox,, 

 an emulsion of parrots' proventricular mucosa was made and applied 

 to the embryos. There was no development at room or incubator 

 temperature. 



The ova in the preceding experiments came from proventricular 

 slime and had not received the action of the bird's intestinal canal. 

 As soon as a bird was found with great numbers of fecal ova, they were 

 washed out and the above experiments repeated in graded acids and 

 alkalis, diluted pigeon serum, and tap water at room temperature 

 and 41° C. The same results have been secured: they hatch best 

 in tap water and serum at room temperature. 



The most rapid hatching occurred in a corked vial of tap water 

 at room temperature in which a female had been placed to deposit 

 her eggs for subsequent experiments. Four days later she was found 

 ruptured, her egg tubes protruding and also ruptured. In them were 

 worms in all stages of hatching. 



Animal Experimentation. 

 Three modes of transmission would seem to be possible: 



1. Passage of egg into drinking water, and direct entrance of 

 the egg to the host, as in the case of the common pinworm, Oxyuris 

 vermicularis. This is the simplest possible cycle. 



2. Passage into drinking water, a hatching or perhaps a moult or 

 two, and then, by drinking or skin perforation, reinfestation, as 

 seen in the hook-worm, Necaior americana. 



3. Passage of eggs into water or soil, ingestion by an intermediate 

 host with moultings, passage from secondary host to water, and so 

 back to definitive host, as seen among the flukes, Faspiola hepaticum. 



A fourth mode, in which a biting insect might figure (as in filari- 

 asis) is surely ruled out, as no embryos have been found in either the 

 peripheral or deep bloods of our verminous birds upon repeated 

 examinations. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



The first (direct) mode seems impossible for the following reasons : 



A. In several cases we found infested birds whose cagemates w^ere 

 free. 



B. Several pigeons were fed on eggs or actually had them placed in 

 the crop by rubber tube and syringe. Killed at intervals of a month, 

 proventricle and gizzard showed neither micro- nor macroscopic 

 involvement. The last bird killed had been treated three months 

 previously. Pigeons ought to be susceptible to these worms. Our 

 records show that a Barbary turtle dove and white-crowned pigeon 

 died with them in September, 1911, and three blue-crowned pigeons 

 were similarly infested in September, 1907. 



C. In order to get a perfect blood relationship, ova and embryos 

 were placed in the crop of newly arrived parrots which had been 

 tested by the improved method and passed. Another parrot was 

 kept in a cage soiled by a verminous bird. One bird ched in four 

 weeks ^vith pneumonia. It showed no worms. The others were 

 examined regularly and so far have shown no ova in the stools. 



D. Roseate cockatoo (No. 166) was placed in a cage with infested 

 roseate cockatoo (No. 120) and drinking water allowed to become 

 soiled on August 28, 1912. The birds were separated twelve weeks 

 later and the healthy cockatoo found still healthy, as shown by 

 examination of droppings. 



In each of the four conditions cited above an opportunity was 

 afforded for the ova to develop by the first mode. They failed 

 to do so. 



In testing out the second mode, embryo worms were fed to pigeons 

 and parrots in the same way that eggs were administered in the 

 preceding experiments. The pigeons were killed at one month 

 intervals and the proventricle and gizzard examined by the micro- 

 scope. No infestation was found. A roseate cockatoo also received 

 the larva. In twelve months no ova have been found in the droppings 

 upon repeated examinations. The remaining possibility — entrance 

 by skin penetration — is now being tried. 



The third mode which would involve an intermediate non-biting 

 host, does not harmonize with our ideas of nematode transmission. 

 In only one case, that of Spiroptera sanguinolenta of the dog, could I 

 find such an example. The cockroach is the secondary host here, 

 and as our aviary harbored many such insects, attention was directed 

 to them. They were fed on cornstarch into which spiroptera ova 

 were mixed. The roaches were dissected at intervals of two days, 

 and though the eggs were found in the cloacal contents, no develop- 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



ment was ever made out. The tissues of the body cavity were also 

 teased and examined with negative results. 



Our work on the life history of this worm, then, has been disap- 

 pointing. Aside from negative findings, we have only established 

 the fact that the eggs may hatch in four days in tap water at room 

 temperature. 



Therapeusis. 



Theoretically, the prospect of a successful therapy is not bright. 

 The worms live in the soft, juicy wall of a canal between the crop and 

 gizzard. Sometimes they appear in the lumen of this canal, in which 

 case they are always surrounded by thick, tenacious mucus. If they 

 are pulled out of this with forceps and are laid on the mucus they at 

 once bore into it. It protects them from anj^ passing medicament, 

 which is apt to have only a transient effect while on its way from the 

 crop to gizzard. Those worms, which may be partly protruded into 

 the lumen from the wall of the canal, can retract and retreat, even 

 as far as the serosa, as shown in one of our museum specimens. 

 The smallest worms are found under the thick, chitinous lining 

 of the gizzard. We have used, therefore, drugs which act on the 

 worms in the lumen (thymol by mouth) and by way of the blood 

 (arsenic hypodermically). The arsenic used has been in the form 

 of Fowler's solution and atoxyl. We determined the minimum lethal 

 dose for j^igeons and administered a corresponding dose to the 

 verminous parrots.^ No practical results have come from our efforts 

 at therapy. Two interesting points, however, were secured: The 

 parrots and pigeons withstood thymol and arsenic in enormous 

 doses, compared weight for weight with man. The droppings of a 

 parrot very heavily infested averaged for five days 182,000 eggs 

 per diem. After a dose of thymol, on one occasion it passed 288,000 

 eggs in one single day. 

 Filaria fasciata n. sp. 



In the last three years we have found six examples of filariasis 

 in dead wild-cats. They may be found in the intermuscular fasciae of 

 any of the muscles of the body, but especially in those of the thigh 

 muscles. They number from two to forty. They are coiled in a 

 most intricate manner in the loose areolar tissue, but slip out rather 

 easily upon slight dissection and traction. The animal is emaciated. 

 Its blood swarms with embryos. 



^ Fortieth Amiiinl Report of the Board of Directors of the Zoological Society of 

 Philadelphia, 1912. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



The female is 2.5-30 cm. long, filariform, 0.5 mm. in breadth. The 

 mouth is simple, unarmed, circular. There are no papillae or other 

 special features at the cephalic extremity. Head is continuous with 

 the body. Caudal extremity straight, conical. Anus subterminaL 

 Vulvar orifice immediately anterior to same. 



The male measures 11 cm. in length. It closely resembles the female 

 except the tail. This is strongly curved into three or four spiral 

 turns. There are two unequal sharp spicules, the longer 70,'j- in 

 length, the shorter 45/^-. There are five pairs of closely placed 

 preanal papillge and one pair of postanal. 



The still living embryos measure 280 to 330 microns in length 

 by 4 in breadth. They have a delicate sheath, lashing motion^ 

 and no progression under cover slip. Not examined in hanging drop. 

 Stained specimens exhibit blue spots at irregular intervals, not 

 uniformly enough to be established as head or tail spots. They 

 have been injected hypodermically into kittens with the expected 

 result: no transmission after a lapse of five months. 



It was at first thought, with our imperfect specimens, that we were 

 dealing with Filaria striata (Molin). This worm is briefly described 

 in Latin: 



''Os inerme, minimum; corpus filiforme, longissimum, tenuissime 

 transversim striatum; extremitas anterior crassior; et posterior 

 obtusse; extremitas caudalis maris laxe spiraliter torta, foveola 

 ante apicem limbo cincta, septem papillis permagnis utrinque proedita 

 vagina breve tubulosa; penis brevissimus uncinatus; extremitas 

 caudalis femine inflexa. Longit. mar. 4.5" crassit. \"' . Longit. fem. 

 V 3"; crassit. \"'r 



With the occurrence of another autopsy many specimens of both 

 sexes were obtained. It is now certain that we have not here 

 Filaria striata (Molin), although the size and habitat of the two are the 

 same. The female might fall under the description given above for 

 striata, but the followdng differences are seen in the male. 



1. The tail is strongly coiled. 



2. There are six pairs of papillae. 



3. There are two spicules. 



The last difference especially would appear to warrant the naming 

 of a new species. 



Tropidooerca contorta n. sp. 



Numerous worms were found in' the proventricle of a concave- 

 casqued hornbill, Dichocerus hicornis (P. Z. G. 2,640). The mucosa 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



was dotted closely by blood-red or blackish points, which were 

 usually best seen on the serosa, but sometimes best through the 

 mucosa. The latter was covered with a thick layer of viscid mucus. 

 The red points numbered perhaps sixty or eighty. A slight degree 

 of teasing with subsequent pressure over such a point expressed a 

 blood-red translucent body which proved upon microscopical exam- 

 ination to be a worm. From its subglobular shape it was at first 

 supposed to be a fluke, but under the microscope it soon revealed 

 characteristics which placed it among the nematodes. Thirty 

 or "forty of these blood-red worms were expressed and examined 

 before any fixative was applied, the material coming to hand very 

 shortly after death. 



All of these blood-red worms were found to be females. The camera 

 lucida drawings, Plate IV, and measurements are from fresh unfixed 

 specimens, which have been slightly flattened out by the weight 

 of the cover slip. They were examined in normal saline solution. 

 They showed no motion even upon gentle warming. The host 

 had been kept at 10° C. for six to eight hours before autopsy and 

 the parasites in situ at the same temperature overnight. This low 

 temperature acting for twenty-four hours probably explains their 

 quiescence. 



No males could be found in the slime which so thickly covered 

 the mucosa. After the females had been expressed the mucosa 

 was teased into fine shreds and emulsified in normal saline solu- 

 tion. The sediment was washed in the centrifuge several times 

 and from it eight males were recovered with the aid of the micro- 

 scope. It would appear from this that the males occupy the same 

 jDositions that the females do, i.e., the proventricular crypts. 



The largest specimen of the mature female measures 2.1 mm. long 

 and 1.9 mm. broad. On account of the complexity of its coils it is 

 impossible to measure the length of the body axis. They are of a 

 blood-red color, both grossly and microscopically, except the gut 

 tract, which contains molecular black material. This central 

 blackened tract may be seen even grossly upon careful scrutiny. 

 They are moderately resistant to pressure, the trauma of extraction 

 never rupturing the organism. Ordinary cover-glass pressure will 

 rupture them only when the mounting medium (normal saline) 

 evaporates excessively. 



The form of the mature female is extraordinary and occasioned 

 the construction of the genus Tropisuris (Diesing), later changed to 

 Tropidocerca. Before flattening the specimens appear (as shown 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



by Lieberklihn) in the form of a pumpkin. At one pole the head 

 projects, at the other the tail The cuticle is very thick, transparent, 

 finely transversely striated and of a blood-red color. It is often pro- 

 jected in expansions as the coils of the worm tighten. As the head 

 becomes retracted the cuticle forms a collar-like fold. In some 

 specimens the head and tail have been retracted into the centre 

 of the coil so as to become invisible. In others they project in a 

 varying degree, but never to a greater distance than half the diam- 

 eter of the worm. In such cases the projected part of the body 

 measures 100 to 150 mc. in diameter, tapers slightly anteriorly, to 

 end suddenly at the oral opening. (Plate IV, figs. 4, 5 and 8.) 



The Gut. — The mouth is unarmed and round. It is succeeded by 

 a dome-shaped buccal space which passes into a long oesophagus. 

 The oesophagus is marked off from the buccal space by a well-defined 

 ring. The walls of the oesophagus are very thick and composed of 

 circular and radial muscle fibres. The oesophagus can be traced 

 deeply into the coils of the worm, where it ends by a rounded extrem- 

 ity in the intestine. The intestine is visible only as a black, irregular 

 tract which twists apparently with the coils. It commences as a 

 large cul-de-sac which receives the oesophagus. It soon narrows 

 and thereafter is irregular in size. Anus subterminal. (Plate IV, fig. 8.) 



The posterior extremity of the worm narrows quickly to a sharp 

 point. Anal opening 450 mc. from tip. Vulvar orifice 900 mc. from 

 tip. Between the two openings the cuticle is thickened so as to 

 produce a rounded swelling. (Plate IV, fig. 6.) 



The general body cavity, including its expansions, is filled with 

 closely packed egg tubes, suggesting that such expansions are 

 especially designed to accommodate an extraordinarily developed 

 reproductive system. From the specimens examined in toto the 

 details of this system could not be made out. 



The ova are elliptical, measure 40 to 45 mc. in length and 20 to 

 25 mc. in width. Several specimens showed a peculiar unilateral 

 bib attached to the outside of the shell. (Plate IV, fig. 7.) 



Attempts were made to determine a regular arrangement of the 

 coils. This was very difficult in the case of the fully matured fe- 

 males. It would seem from their shape that the body expansions 

 grew into the grooves between the coils so as to form a well-rounded 

 mass. This makes it difficult to determine from which coil the head 

 and tail protrude (if they protrude at all) and which coils are 

 continuous with each other. The presence of the cuticular expan- 

 sions only serves to increase the difficulty. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Immature females were not nearly so puzzling. It was through 

 a consideration of the coils of different specimens at different stages 

 of development, together with reconstructions in wax, that the ar- 

 rangement of the twists was finally made out. 



The sex of the youngest female could only be determined by 

 its greater proportionate breadth. It measured 2.5 mm. in length 

 and 0.2 mm. in width. It was found with the eight males men- 

 tioned above. It was cylindrical, colorless, and showed no internal 

 structure. It was not coiled, but even at this early stage of devel- 

 opment showed by its angulations a disposition to coil. (Plate IV, 

 fig- 3.) 



The next female studied in point of age was coiled in one plane 

 only. It measured 1,000 mc. by 1,050 mc; i.e., only half the size 

 of the mature female. It was colorless, except for the gut, which 

 was black. In this case the body axis could be readily followed. 

 It was 3.5 mm. long. This specimen was fusiform, its greatest 

 diameter, 450 mc, was located at the posterior third of the body, 

 where the bulk of the gut and egg tubes were. The head and a 

 large part of the neck, 0.2 mm., are bent sharply dorsally. The 

 rest of the body then curls tightly ventrally to enclose the head and 

 sharply bent anterior portion. The tail ends sharply in a single 

 point. Its tip is recurved. Egg tubes may be seen in the body 

 cavity, but they contain no ova. (Plate IV, fig. 9.) 



The third female measured 9 mm. in length. This was 

 ascertained by flattening out a small female and forcibly with 

 needles straightening out the coils. The body varies in mdth. 

 Its greatest diameter is 600 mc. It can now be seen that the body 

 cavity bulges out into expansions at several points. The approxi- 

 mation of these expansions to each other, together with a coincident 

 coiling of the parasite, could easily result in the pumpkin-shaped 

 organism so commonly described. The distortion here produced, 

 however, precludes a positive statement in regard to an habitual 

 and orderly arrangement of these expansions along the bod}' axis 

 in the living animal. 



The fourth female in order of maturity contained mature ova 

 (coiled embryo visible). It was chosen because it was not tightly 

 coiled. It was examined in glycerine with a stereoscopic micro- 

 scope. No cover-glass was used, thus eliminating pressure arte- 

 fact. A wax model was made by combining drawings and direct 

 observation. 



The rigidity of the coils in the unfixed female raised the question 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



whether this was a permanent or a changeable arrangement. It 

 has been already remarked that even in a very young female, where 

 the anlage of the organs was not yet prominent, there was a dis- 

 position (as evidenced by angulations) to coil. This same early 

 disposition is also noted in the half-grown specimen which was 

 tightl}' coiled in one plane. These facts seemed to argue the coiling 

 as a peculiarity of the species. 



To shed further light on the subject, reconstructions were made 

 of two mature females after the wax-plate method of Bonn, and a 

 third (partial) reconstruction in pasteboard. In all three the coils 

 were very tight. In two specimens the head and tail project at 

 opposite sides of the coiled worm. In a third the head and tail are 

 close together. In the two complete reconstructions the tail re- 

 curves in a direction opposite to the general direction of the coils. 

 That is, tracing the coils in a spiral manner down from the head — 

 either clockwise or contraclockwise, as the case may be — we sud- 

 denly come to an abrupt bend toward the tail, where it bends around 

 in the opposite direction. This peculiarity is also seen in the half- 

 grown female mentioned before, and it is this reversal which led to 

 the uncertainty in determining the arrangement by direct examina- 

 tion. As stated above, the coils may (looking at the specimen head 

 on) run clockwise or contraclockwise. 



From a consideration of the camera lucida drawings of females at 

 different stages of development, along with the wax model and 

 reconstructions, the following deductions are made: 



There is a very early "embryonic" propensity for the worm to 

 coil tightly. The arrangement of such coils is not constant, the 

 coils turning either clock\vise or contraclockwise. The head along 

 with a short anterior portion is always bent more or less sharply 

 dorsally. The caudal extremity always twists suddenly in a direc- 

 tion reverse ,to that of the more anterior coils. As the female 

 becomes mature, the remarkable egg content causes a broadening 

 of the worm without a proportionate increase in length. This 

 causes the mass to appear globular. The pressure incident to 

 such enormous egg content ol)literates any "dead spaces" between 

 the coils (internally or externally), and this tends all the more to 

 perfect the globular appearance. 



It is presumed (in the absence of direct observation of living 



specimens) that the worm may alter its coils and protrude head or 



tail into the lumen of the proventricle. It does not seem probable, 



from its bulkiness, that the mature female migrates as does Spirop- 



10 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



tera incerta. In support of this, the microscopical sections do not 

 show necrosis as in spiropteriasis, and we do not think that the 

 worms cause serious disease. The female certainly extracts hemo- 

 globin from the host, but does not seem to be wasteful as in 

 uncinariasis. The cagemate of this bird, which is living and also 

 infested, appears perfectly healthy, and is standing such minor 

 blood loss very well. 



The Male. — From the fact that the specimens were found only 

 after teasing the mucosa (not at all in the luminal slime), it is pre- 

 sumed that they live in the same situations as the females — in 

 the crypts of the proventricular glands. This is, however, hard to 

 prove, on account of the small size, translucency, and relatively 

 small number of males. Serial sections might or might not, from 

 this last circumstance, include a male. 



The largest male measures 6 mm. in length. At its widest part 

 it measures 125 mc. The body is subcylindrical, filiform, tapering 

 anteriorly to end rather abruptly in a rounded extremity. The head 

 is not separable from the body. It tapers more gracefully posteri- 

 orly, ending in a tail which is curved strongly toward the cloaca. 

 Tip of tail is sharp, recurved from cloaca after the fashion of the 

 point of a fish-hook robbed of its barb. Cuticle finely striated 

 transversely, thin, transparent. (Plate IV, figs. 1 and 2.) 



None of the male specimens display the blood-red color so con- 

 spicuous in the female. 



The oral opening is circular. It leads to a narrow buccal cavity, 

 which abruptly opens into an oesophagus mth thick circularly dis- 

 posed musculature. This is succeeded by a straight, simple intes- 

 tine, which becomes coiled at its posterior third, to end 300 mc. 

 from the caudal tip. Cloacal opening surrounded by a pouting, 

 prominent cuticular ring. 



Spicules unequal. The shorter measures 150 mc, The longer 

 measures 5,400 mc. in length, and when retracted. extends to within 

 600 mc. of the anterior extremity. This spicule is, then, nine-tenths 

 as long as the individual. One specimen was projected to a distance 

 of 3.0 mm. This length does not represent the full extent to which 

 it may project, as a part of the spicule had been broken off. ' There 

 are two pairs of preanal and two pairs of postanal papillae. There is 

 no bursa. 



Tropidocerca contorta n. sp. 



This worm falls easily into the genus Tropisnris (Diesing), later 

 changed to Tropidocerca. This genus includes numerous worms which 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



lie in the pro ventricles of birds. They vary in size, in different 

 species, from 2 to 7 mm. in length. The striking peculiarity of 

 this nematode is the subglobular form and blood-red color of the 

 female. From the upper pole of the worm a short head projects 

 and from the lower a short tail.^ 



I have found the following species described as infesting the 

 hooded crow, snipe, plover, woodcock, goose, black coot, widgeon, 

 grosbeak, seagull: Tropidocerca fississpina (Schlatthauber), T. 

 paradoxa (Diesing), T. gijncecophila (Molin), T. hispinosa (Molin), 

 T. glohosa (V. Linstow), T. inermis (V. Linstow), T. tenuis (Lieber- 

 kiihn), T. certa (Leidy). 



Upon referring to these species I find that the structure of the 

 mouth and tail parts conforms closely to the worm I have been 

 studying. There are certain marked differences, however, which 

 seem sufficient to warrant the naming of a new species: 



1. Its tightly coiled form, which is not mentioned or figured 

 in any of the other species. 



2. Absence of the four equidistant longitudinal muscular bands 

 which by contracting give the subglobular shape of other Tropi- 

 docercse. 



3. The remarkable length of the longer spicule of the male. 



4. Disposition of the male papillae. 



Believing the first-named difference to be the most striking, I 

 have given the nam6 contorta to the species. 

 Trichocephalus dispar (Rudolphi). 



From the large intestine of a Rhesus macaque (P. Z. G. No. 2,744) 

 three mature worms were obtained. They were very firmly attached 

 to the mucosa and more deeply imbedded than it is customary to 

 find them. The specimen showed tightly clinging detritus along the 

 anterior attenuated portion which could not be removed with a 

 brush. The case is of value because this helminthiasis was 

 associated with a purulent peritonitis. The text-book descriptions 

 do not assign any marked pathogenic properties to this worm. 

 It would seem hypercritical in this case to argue that such asso- 

 ciation is a mere coincidence. Tricocephalus dispar has also been 

 found in Pithecus sntyrus, Cercopithecus mona, C. potas, and C. sahwus, 

 Innuus erythryacus, I. ecaudatus, Cyanocephalus sphinx, and C. 

 porcarius and in Mycetes senicidus. It is mentioned as Tricocephalus 

 lemuris (Rud.) and T. palceformis by Raillet. Its occurrence in 



2 Diesing, Syst. Helminth., II, p. 207. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



these animals suggests lines of transmission from one host to 

 another. 



Microscopically, all three worms were found to be females. Two 

 were perfect. Head is missing from the third, suggesting that it was 

 firmly attached to the mucosa. The worms conform in every re- 

 spect to the accepted generic descriptions of Tricocephalus. The two 

 perfect specimens measure each 27 mm. in length. The posterior 

 portion is 8.5 mm. long, the narrow, more attenuated, anterior 

 portion, including the head, 18.5 mm. This gives a close proportion 

 of one to two. Measurements were made of ova which lay in the 

 oviduct close to the vulvar opening. They are- 23-25 mc. broad 

 and 52-55 mc. long, including the button. 



It is unfortunate that no males were included in the material, 

 since it is by these alone that the species may be surely determined; 

 sexual apparatus (especially the sheath of the spicule) furnishing 

 the differentiating characteristics. 



As far as the material goes, this might easily be a specimen of 

 Trichocephalus dispar. The ova are almost identical, measuring 

 for the largest specimens 25 by 55 mc. as against 23 by 53 for T. 

 dispar. It is true that the specimens are smaller, measuring 27 liim. 

 in length as against 35 mm. for T. dispar, but this is not an uncommon 

 variation for identical species in different hosts. (Witness Ascaris 

 mystax in cats and lions.) Neither does the size of the eggs conform 

 to that given for other species of Trichocephalus: crenatus, 52 by 56, 

 from pig; affinis, ? by 65, from horse; felis, 36 by 72, from cat; 

 unguiculatus, 31 by 52, from rabbit; depressicollis, 31 by 80, from 

 dog and fox; senrdus, 39 by 56, from cat. 

 Paragonimus westermanii (Kerb.). 



This parasite has been found- in two wild-cats, Felis rufus. They 

 lie in cystic dilatations of the bronchi, generally in pairs. An 

 inflammatory zone is present around each focus. There are not 

 more than half a dozen in each cat. The finding has been made the 

 subject of a paper ^ presented before the Philadelphia Pathological 

 Society by Fox, Smith, Rivas, and Weidman, in which it is pointed 

 out that this worm has occurred in San Francisco, St. Louis, Cin- 

 cinnati, in the Appalachians, and in the Carolinas, whence these cats 

 came. It is the belief of these writers that the parasite will be 

 found oftener in man if it is carefully looked for, and is likely to 

 become more frequent in the United States with the development 

 of our East Indian possessions, where its effects are endemic. 



3 To be published in a medical journal. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



The occurrence of this worm in wild-cats on our Atlantic seaboard 

 should be taken note of and remembered if this disease develop here. 

 Taenia echinococcus (v. Siebold). 



This material came from a female Bactrian camel which died in 

 labor from a ruptured uterus. 



The cysts were most numerous in the liver, constituting fully 

 half the bulk of that organ. The spleen was also extensively 

 involved, the lungs less so. The largest cysts in the liver were 

 sterile, showing no scolices. The specimens were observed alive, 

 and we were able to see the scolices retract the rostellum when they 

 were irritated. 



One of our microscopic specimens shows a scolex insinuating 

 itself between the lamellae of the wall of the cyst, a circumstance 

 not commonly mentioned in text-books on helminthology. 

 Taenia marginata (Batsch.). 



The opportunity has presented of seeing this parasite in the most 

 important stages of its complicated life cycle. We have seen the 

 mature worm, ovum, and cysticercus. 



The strobile or mature worm is the common tapeworm of the dog 

 and wolf. Its head is provided with a circle of booklets. Our 

 specimen was obtained from a gray wolf after a vermifuge. The 

 terminal segments are the mature ones and furnish ova to the stools. 

 In these eggs six hooks can be seen, the precursors of the future 

 rostellum of the mature worm. These eggs, if ingested by herbiv- 

 orous animals, hatch in the intestine and burrow through the 

 liver to the serous cavities of the intermediate host (a ruminant), 

 where they develop a caudal segment. This segment is cystic, 

 and into it on a long narrow neck the head is invaginated. This 

 stage is known as the cysticercus stage, and the parasite has been 

 named Cysticercus tenuicollis. We have found these cysts in the 

 Angora goats, woolless sheep, ring-tailed lemurs, Mexican deer, 

 European roe deer, mule deer, red deer, and fallow deer. It has 

 been proven experimentally by several investigators that they are 

 pathogenic for young ruminants.^ 



The occurrence of so many of the cysts aroused the suspicion that 

 our ruminants might be contracting the disease from the canines, 

 opposite whose dens some of the deer are parked. Two ex- 

 aminations of the dejecta of our canines revealed but three in- 



* Neumann's Parasites and Parasitic Diseases of the Domesticated Animals — 

 (Fleming) 1900. 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



festations out of fifteen animals examined. One of these was an 

 American gray wolf, which was given a vermifuge. As a result 

 segments were obtained corresponding to those of Tenia marginata. 

 The wolf has been isolated. He could easily have been the source 

 of some of the cases. In others, however, the animals had been 

 housed in a distant building or were newly arrived. They were 

 doubtless infested when they arrived. 



One of our cases has furnished a monster formation. The cysts 

 usually consist of a single bladder, into which the head is invaginated. 

 By pressing upon such a cyst the head and long narrow neck may be 

 expressed. In the monster forms the cyst is invaginated by a 

 second cj^st, and into this second cyst the head is invaginated so that 

 when pressure is applied two elongated necks emerge, the innermost 

 bearing the head. The formation is discussed by Railliet, p. 238. 



If these cysts be ingested by a canine, the bladder will be destroyed, 

 the head becomes fastened to the intestinal wall and gives rise 

 ultimately to the stroliile, Tcenia marginata. 



The material which forms the basis of this communication has been 

 obtained from the Garden of the Philadelphia Zoological Society, 

 from the Laboratory of Comparative Pathology of which it is reported. 

 During the work I have often had occasion to confer with Dr. Allen J. 

 Smith. The reconstructions of Tropidocerca contorta were only 

 made possible by his generous tender of apparatus and materials 

 from the Department of Comparative Pathology and Tropical 

 Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. I acknowledge with 

 sincere thanks his freely given advice and criticism. 



Bibliography, 

 CoBBOLD, Transactions of the Linnean Society of London, II, part 8, 1883. 



pp. 357-361. 

 DiESiNn, Revis. d. Nemat., pp. 673, 674. 



Syst. Helminth., II, p. 207. 



V. Drasche, Verhandlung. d. k. zoojog. bot. Gesellsch. Wien, 1883, pp. 114, 11-5. 

 Leuckart, Troeschel's Archiv f. Naturg., 1860, II, p. 135. 

 Leidy, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1886, p. 308. 

 LiEBERKtJHN, MuUer's Archiv f. Naturg., 1855, pp. 314-355. 

 V. LiNSTow, Troeschel's Archiv fiir Naturg., 1877, pp. 5, 6. 



Troeschel's Archiv fiir Naturg., 1876, I, pp. .5, 6. 



iirchiv f. Naturg., 1879, p. 175. 



MoLiN, Sitzungsbericht d. k. k. Akad. der Wisse.n., Wien, XXXIII, p. 298; 

 XL, p. 342. 



Denkschr. d. k. Akad. der Wissen., Wien, XIX, pp. 297-299. 



Railliet, A. Traits de Zoologie Medicale et Agricole. 2e Edition. 

 ScHLOTTHAUBER, Aiutlicher Bericht deuts. Naturforscher u. Aerzte, Gottingen 



1854, p. 129. ^ ' 



Description of Plate IV. 

 Fig. 1. — Male Tropidocerca contorta, with the longer penis projected. 

 Fig. 2.— Male T. contorta, with penis retracted. The root of the longer penis 



reaches almost to the head. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



Fig. 3. — Female T. contorla. This is the youngest female found. It tends to coil 

 even at this early stage. 



Fig. 4. — Female T. conlorta. A mature specimen, showing the cuticular expan- 

 sions and subglobular form of this nematode. 



Fig. 5. — Female T. conlorta. A mature specimen showing the same general 

 features as the preceding. 



Fig. 6. — Tail of female 2\ contorla. 



Fig. 7. — Ova of T. contorla. The unilateral bib is represented on one. 



Fig. 8. — Female T. conlorta. A mature specimen, showing course of oesophagus 

 and intestines. 



Fig. 9.— Female T. conlorta. This is a half-grown specimen. It is coiled in one 

 plane only, and shows the head bent sharply dorsally. It also shows the 

 constant feature revealed in the wax reconstructions, viz., the caudal portion 

 bends sharply in a direction opposite to the general coiling of the worm. 

 This figure is drawn on a much larger scale than the preceding. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



BROWN: VARIATIONS IN LUCIDELLA, 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



VANATTA: NE^A^ SPECIES OF MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCL PHILA. 1913 



MAP 



OP PAHT OP THE 



TRIASSIC AREA 

 EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 



BV 



LEGEND 



WHERRY: TRIASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



u>a(( of 



body cavify 



WEIDMAN: METAZOAN PARASITES. 





1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



Fig. 3. — Female T. contorta. This is the youngest female found. It tends to coil 

 even at this early stage. 



Fig. 4. — Female T. contorta. A mature specimen, showing the cuticular expan- 

 sions and subglobular form of this nematode. 



Fig. 5. — Female T. contorta. A mature specimen showing the same general 

 features as the preceding. 



Fig. 6. — Tail of female T. contorta. 



Fig. 7. — Ova of T. contorta. The unilateral bib is represented on one. 



Fig. 8. — Female T. contorta. A mature specimen, showing course of oesophagus 

 and intestines. 



Fig. 9. — Female T. contorta. This is a half-grown specimen. It is coiled in one 

 plane only, and shows the head bent sharply dorsally. It also shows the 

 constant feature revealed in the wax reconstructions, viz., the caudal portion 

 bends sharply in a direction opposite to the general coiling of the worm. 

 This figure is drawn on a much larger scale than the preceding. 



11 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



April 15. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-nine persons present. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: John S. 

 Billings, M.D., March 11, and George McClellan, M.D., March 31. 



The Publication Committee reported the acceptance of papers 

 under the following titles for publication in the Proceedings: 



"Notes on serpents in the Family Colubridae, " by Joseph C. 

 Thompson, Surg. U. S. N. (March 27). 



"Amphibians and reptiles from Ecuador, Venezuela, and Yucatan," 

 by Henry W. Fowler (March 28). 



"Notes on the types of ,some American spiders in European 

 collections," -by Nathan Banks (April 10). 



"On a collection of birds obtained by the Francis E. Bond Expe- 

 dition to the Orinoco Delta," by Witmer Stone (April 14). 



A paper entitled "Some aboriginal sites in Louisiana and Arkan- 

 sas," by Clarence B. Moore, was accepted for publication in the 

 Journal (April 14). 



John M. Macfarlane, M.D., made a communication on the 

 origin and distribution of animals and plants. (No abstract.) 

 • The subject was discussed by Drs. Calvert and Pilsbry. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILES FROM ECUADOR, VENEZUELA, AND YUCATAN. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Several collections of herpetological specimens have recently been 

 acquired by the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Important among them are those forming the basis of this paper. 

 Several species, apparently new, are described and figured. All the 

 figures are drawn to scale, the accompanying line signifying ten 

 millimeters. 



ECUADOR. 



The collection from this country was made on the western slope 

 of the Andes, from Guayaquil to Quito, during 1911, by Mr. Samuel 

 N. Rhoads. The fishes were reported by the writer during the same 

 year in these Proceedings. Since then all the collections Mr. 

 Rhoads made were purchased by the Academy. In this connec- 

 tion I wish to express thanks to Mr. Rhoads for the appended notes 

 relating to the habits of the various species. 



AMPHIBIA. 



BUFONID^. 

 Bufo marinus (Linnaeus). 



Two from Bucay. 



Bufo typhonius (Linnaeus). 



Seven from Bucay. Found only under stones and logs, in woods 

 and banana plantations. 



This very variable species ranges over the greater part of South 

 America, and in this connection I have examined many examples 

 from th€ following localities: Chapada, near Cujaba in Matto 

 Grosso (H. H. Smith)-; Upper Punes River (Steere) ; Bahia (Cope) 

 in Brazil; Peru(Orton); Pebas (Orton), Ecuador; Surinam (Bering). 

 Some examples show the hght vertebral line very conspicuously, 

 and in others it is wanting. Variation in the color of the back is seen 

 from nearly uniform brownish specimens to those greatly blotched. 

 Some large examples have nearly all the lower regions blackish, and 

 they also show the postorbital flange greatly elevated. The Bucay 

 specimens do not show any parietal ridges extending from the post- 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



orbital. Females from Pebas, with eggs, have scattered white spots 

 on lower surface of body very pronounced, though the postorbital 

 flange is hardly developed. 



Bufo cseruleocellatus sp. nov. PI. V, upper figure. 



Body depressed, its width about equals that of head. No 

 bony ridges on head,. which is broadly depressed, though not con- 

 stricted from rest of body. Snout a httle depressed, contour as 

 viewed above little less than right angle. Eye large, though some- 

 what less than snout in length. Mouth large, rictus extending 

 slightly beyond eye. Lips thin, skin firm, and jaw edges trenchant. 

 No teeth. Tongue large, free for great portion posteriorly, and hind 

 edge triangular. Internal nares moderate. External nares well 

 separated, so that each would fall in external fourth of antero- 

 interorbital width. Latter depressed, or very slightly convex. 

 Lores a little concave, smooth. Tympanum small, vertically 

 elHpsoid, and vertical diameter about f horizontal length of eye. 

 Parotids large, well separated from eyes, though each equals about 

 If eye lengths. Along upper side of head from snout tip low fold 

 extends back, including upper eyelid externally and outer edge of 

 parotid. Fold on latter well marked, though not extending on costal 

 region. 



Skin largely smooth, though upper surfaces of limbs and hind pelvic 

 region above, with weak tubercles, a few of which are less developed 

 on lower surfaces of hind limbs and costal regions. Parotids and 

 eyebrows more or less granular. Lower surface of body otherwise 

 smooth . 



Limbs all rather slender. Fingers not webbed, second longest, 

 and first and third subequally shortest. Finger tips all with rather 

 well-developed tubercles. Toes webbed rather narrowly at bases, 

 and each with somewhat well-developed distal tubercles. Two equal 

 well-developed metatarsal tubercles. Fold of skin along outer tarsal 

 edge. 



Color in alcohol dark slaty-gray above, ground-color nearly uni- 

 form, marked with a number of scattered more or less rounded dusky 

 to blackish blotches, each indistinctly edged with gray, or paler tint 

 than general body-color, to form obscure ocelli. Upper surfaces of 

 these limbs also marked with similar blotches, as three or four on 

 each joint. Lower surface of body pale gray, evidently translucent 

 in life. Breast and throat all more or less clouded with slaty specks, 

 or obscurely spotted with paler or more whitish tints. 

 Length 23 mm. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



Type, No. 18,069, A. N. S. P. Bucay, province of Guayas, western 

 Ecuador. July, 1911. S. N. Rhoads. 



Nos. 18,068, 18,070 and 18,064, paratypes, same data. Length 

 16 to 22 mm. All the specimens were found under stones, bark and 

 leaves, in woods. 



This species is apparently related to Bufo cceruleosiictus Giinther,^ 

 but differs in the color-markings. This is hardly due to age, as 

 Giinther gives the upper parts of the body as uniform brownish- 

 black and the lower parts dirty gray-brown. Upper eyelids, sides 

 of trunk and extremities all show small smooth bluish tubercles. 

 His example was 3 inches 6 lines. Boulenger's figure' would show 

 that Giinther's toad cannot be identical. 



Bufo glaberrimus Giinther'' differs in the smooth skin and a rose- 

 colored spot in the groin, the general color being brownish-black. 



Bufo hcematiticus Cope^ has a different coloration, especially a pale 

 spot anterior and beneath the eye. A poor specimen in the collection 

 from Coban (Cope) is not fit for comparison. Cope names var. 

 lachrymans,^ probably only a color form. Its length is 1 inch 6 lines- 



The present species shows some variation in its color markings, 

 and in some examples but few dark spots are present on the back. 

 The latter is also variable as to roughness on its fore part above. 

 {Ccerulea, blue; ocellus, ring; with reference to the color markings 

 on the back.) 

 Bufo chanchanensis sp. nov. PI. V. lower figure. 



Body moderately depressed, width about equal to that of head. 

 Head without bony ridges, though broad and depressed, not con- 

 stricted from rest of body. Snout a little depressed, contour as seen 

 from above obtusely triangular, slightly more than right angle. 

 Eye large, equal to snout in length. Mouth large, rictus extending 

 trifle beyond eye. Lips thin, firm, and jaw edges trenchant. No 

 teeth. Tongue large, free for last * at least, hind edge rounded. 

 Internal nares large. External nares well separated, falling almost 

 in outer fourth of antero-interorbital width. Interorbital depressed, 

 very slightly concave, width little less than twice that of upper 

 eyelid. Lores smooth. No tympanum. Parotids large, slightly 

 separated from eyes, each equals twice length of eye. Along upper 



1 Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1859, p. 415. Western Ecuador. 



2 Cat. Bafr. Sal. Brit. Mus., 1882, p. 291, PL 21, fig. 1. 



3 Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1868, p. 483, PI. 37, fig. 2. Bogota. 



4 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1862, p. 158. Truando region, Colombia. 

 5L. c. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



side of head from snout tip low fold extends back, including upper 

 ej'elid externally and outer edge of parotid, though not continued 

 beyond. 



Skin very rough, with more or less enlarged tubercles over upper 

 surface. Lower surface of body finely granular. Upper eyelids 

 with large tubercles, though parotids largely smooth. Upper 

 surfaces of limbs tuberculate like back, and lower surfaces granulated 

 like bellj\ 



Limbs moderately slender. Third finger longest, first and second 

 subequally shortest, and none webbed. Tips of fingers slightly 

 dilated with tubercles. Toes with rather short webs, each ending in 

 small tubercle. Two equal cuneate metatarsal tubercles. Fold of 

 skin along outer tarsal edge. 



Color in alcohol largely dusky. Sides and lower surfaces all more 

 or less blackish, with abdomen laterally and posteriorly, together 

 with lower surfaces of hind limbs, marbled or reticulated with paler 

 spots or blotches in rather well-defined contrast. Side of upper jaw 

 near edge and below eye, mottled a little, and after eye, along 

 middle of side, blackish. Upper surfaces of limbs blotched with 

 blackish, edged paler. Lower surfaces of all limbs with paler 

 markings. 



Length 32 mm. 



Type, No. 18,181, A. N. S. P. Camp Chiguancay, in Chanchan 

 River valley, western Ecuador. March, 1911. S. N. Rhoads. 



Nos. 18,182, 18,185, 18,193, 18,195, 18,198, 18,202, 18,203, 18,205, 

 paratypes, same data. Found in debris in woodland. 



Related to Bujo (haul (Molina), as figured by Garnot and Lesson,^ 

 but that species is represented as having short rounded parotids and 

 a very small distinct tympanum. 



Variation in color is quite noticeable in the present species, though 

 all the specimens are quite dark, with pale bands. 



(Named for the Chanchan Valle3\) 



HYLIDuE. 

 Hyla rubra Daudin. 



Twelve from Hacienda Gorzon to the foot of ]\It. Pichincha, on 

 IMay 16. 



Two from the forest above Chimbo, 10,300 to 12,500 feet elevation, 

 on April 17. 



6 Votj. CoquiUe, II, 1831, PI. 7, fig. 6, Chili. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



Hyla chimboe sp. nov. PL VI, upper figure. 



Body broad, well depressed. Head broad, depressed, its wddth 

 about equals that of body, scarcely constricted. Snout rather 

 broadlj^ depressed, contour as viewed from above well convex. Ej^e 

 moderate, about equals snout length. jMouth large, rictus not quite 

 extending back opposite hind edge of eye. Lips rather thin. ^lax- 

 illary teeth uniserial, fine, uniform, concealed by lip. Vomerine 

 teeth in two series, each rather short, well behind, though would 

 fall partly within space between internal nares, and series approxi- 

 mated posteriorly. Tongue oval, large, last fourth free, and hind 

 edge rounded, not notched. Internal nares rather small. External 

 nares well separated, so they fall near outer fourth of antero-inter- 

 orbital width. Canthus rostralis not very distinct. Interorbital 

 slightly concave. Tympanum rather small, vertically ovoid, and 

 its length about y eye length. 



Skin very finely granular or nearly smooth largely above, and 

 entire lower surface more or less coarsely granular, though granules 

 on belly largest. 



Limbs all slender. Fingers with slight basal webs. First finger 

 longer than second, dilated basally or vrith adnate pollex, third 

 longest, and tips of all wdth well-developed rounded flattened disks, 

 each much less than tympanum. Toes slender, fourth much longest, 

 but moderately webbed basally or for less than half their extent, and 

 distal disks similar to those of fingers. No rudimentary hallux or 

 tarsal fold. 



Color in alcohol evidently uniform dusky above, pale brownish 

 in contrast below. Belly obscurely mottled with darker, and dark 

 mottlings also along edges of hind limbs. Limbs above like back, 

 below like general color of lower surface. 

 Length 37 mm. 



Type, No. 18,137, A. N. S. P. Mountains above Chimbo, 10,000 

 to 10,800 feet, Ecuador. April, 1911. S. N. Rhoads. 



Nos. 18,155 and 18,159, paratypes, same data. These 25 mm. 

 in length. 



This species is related to Hyla rubra Daudin, which differs in 

 having the toes three-fourths webbed, snout 1^ to If in length of eye, 

 a strong fold across the chest, and in having the vomerine teeth in 

 two small groups between the internal nares. 

 (Named for Chimbo, the type locality.) 



Hyla riobambae sp. nov. PI. VI, lower figure. 



Body broad, well depressed. Head broad, depressed, its width 




158 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



greater than that of body, very slightly constricted. Snout broadly 

 depressed, its contour as viewed above well convex. Eye moderate, 

 about 1| to snout tip. Mouth large, rictus extending back to hind 

 eye edge. Lips as rather thin skin. Maxillary teeth uniserial, 

 uniform, conic, hidden by lip. Vomerine teeth few, conic, slightly 

 hooked, form nearly continuous series between internal nares, so 

 that on level with posterior portion near edge of latter. Vomerine 

 teeth would form very obtuse angle, latter directed posteriorly. 

 Tongue large, orbicular, free for about last third, and hind edge well 

 notched. Internal nares large. External nares rather close, so 

 they fall slightly within median third of antero-interorbital width, 

 Canthus rostralis distinct, not conspicuous. Interorbital slightly 

 concave. Tympanum rather small, rounded, its length 1| in eye. " 



Skin largely smooth above, granulate below, with granules on 

 belly and lower sides much largest. Groin, hind part of pelvis and 

 region around tympanum granulated. Lower surfaces of fore limbs 

 and femora finely granulated. 



Limbs all slender. Fingers with slight basal webs. First finger 

 longer than second, dilated basally or with adnate pollex, third longest, 

 and tips of all with well-developed rounded flat disks, each of which 

 less than size of tympanum. Toes slender, fourth much longest, all 

 rather well webbed basally or for half their extent, and distal disks 

 similar to those of fingers. A rudimentary hallux in form of cuneate 

 compressed tubercle at base of first toe on inside, though not free 

 and much less in extent than that of first finger. A slight tarsal fold 

 along inner edge. 



Color in alcohol slaty above, with two broad more or less complete 

 darker lengthwise bands. These bands extend from each eye above 

 to hind side of pelvis, though broken a little posteriorly. Tympanum 

 in a similar-colored blotch. Sides of body slightly more grayish in 

 general color, with rather numerous rounded dark spots towards 

 and in groin. Upper surfaces of limbs like back, with irregular 

 darker blotches. All darker markings have slightly paler edges than 

 body-color. Lower surface of body pale or nearly plain dull brownish. 

 Hind surfaces of tibia and femora mottled dark slaty and whitish. 



Length 48 mm. 



Type, No. 16,161, A.N. S. P. Rio Bamba, Ecuador. April, 1911. 

 S. N. Rhoads. 



No. 16,160, paratype, same data. It shows belly specked or 

 spotted with dusky. 



These specimens were found in crevices of a stone and cactus wall. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



along the roadside. They were very quiet. Color in life a varie- 

 gated grayish. 



Hyla labialis Peters, from Bogota, is perhaps related, though it 

 differs in the hardly distinct tympanum being only f of eye. It is 

 also olive-green above, changing olive-green on sides with blackish- 

 brown band from snout tip through eye to middle of side, lips 

 narrowly edged brown, and sides of thighs narrowly reticulated with 

 brown. 



Hyla nehulosa Spix, from Brazil, H. depressiceps Boulenger, from 

 Ecuador, and H. phceota Cope, from Colombia, all differ in color as 

 well as having the hind edge of the tongue rounded, not notched. 



(Named for the town of Rio Bamba, the type locality.) 



Hyla quitoe sp. nov. PI. VII, upper figure. 



Body moderately broad, somewhat depressed, and width appar- 

 ently slightly less than that of head. Head broad, depressed, scarcely 

 constricted. Snout depressed, contour as viewed above rounded or 

 well convex. Eye moderate, about 1^ to snout tip. Mouth large, 

 rictus extending back slightly beyond eye. Lips as rather thin skin. 

 Maxillary teeth uniserial, uniform, pointed, conic, hidden by lip. 

 Vomerine teeth few, larger in two very short series approximated 

 between internal nares opposite their posterior portion. Contour 

 of vomerine teeth would form very obtuse angle, latter directed 

 posteriorly. Tongue rather large, ovoid, with bulge posterior, hind 

 portion free about j entire length, and hind edge entire or convex. 

 Internal nares moderately large. External nares moderately sepa- 

 rated, falling about outer third in anterior interorbital width. Can- 

 thus rostralis not very distinct. Interorbital slightly depressed. 

 Tympanum vertically ovoid, its vertical diameter about f length 

 of eye. 



Skin largely smooth above, granular below, though granules on 

 belly best defined. Lower portions of flanks, hind limbs below and 

 posteriorly, and sides of pelvis also more or less granular. Region 

 around tympanum apparently smooth. Lower surfaces of fore 

 limbs smooth. 



Limbs all slender. Fingers with distinct, though small or short 

 basal webs. First finger trifle longer than second, and swollen 

 basally as if with rudimentary pollex. Third finger longest. Tuber- 

 cles on fingers apparently little developed. All fingers and toes with 

 rounded disks moderately developed, much smaller than tympanum. 

 Toes slender, fourth much longest, about halt webbed basally. First 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



toe with slight rudimentary dilation as hallux, basally. Metatarsal 

 tubercles not evident. A slight posterior tarsal fold. 



Color in alcohol more or less grayish above, slightly tinged with very 

 pale greenish or slaty tint. Upper lip, snout tip, and throat, grayish- 

 white. From behind eye, embracing tj^mpanum and extending back 

 to groin, broad black band, edged above and below with whitish or 

 grayish. On lores this band continued as pale bluish-gray streak 

 from eye towards tip of snout. From canthus rostralis, which defined 

 by whitish line, a pale bluish-gray streak extends back, includ- 

 ing upper eye cover, though separated by rather broad vertebral 

 area to pelvis, near its hind end. These bluish bands edged dusky. 

 Limbs with general color above like that of back, also with obscure 

 dull slaty markings as blotches or otherwise, though below pale and 

 uniform light brownish, likely translucent in life. Throat whitish, 

 belly becommg tinged pale greenish-gray, slightly variegated with 

 darker shades of grayish. 



Length 20 mm. 



Type, No. 18,238, A. N. S. P. Quito, Ecuador. June 4, 1911. 

 S. N. Rhoads. 



Nos. 18,234 and 18,235, paratypes, same data. 



This species shows variation in color, as the blackish lateral streaks 

 are sometimes broken up into spots or fade paler on groin, in which 

 case if former occur they are whitish edged. 



Related to Hyla mesophcea Hensel and H. venulosa (Laurenti), 

 but differing in color. 



(Named for Quito, the type locality.) 



Hyla quinquefasciata sp. nov. PL VII, lower figure. 



Body broad, well depressed. Head broad, depressed, its width a 

 little less than that of body, and neck slightly constricted. Snout 

 depressed, rather triangular as seen from above. Eye small, 1| in 

 snout or equal to space between front eye edge and external nare. 

 Mouth large, extends back opposite hind eye edge. Lips thin. 

 Maxillary teeth minute, uniform, concealed by lip. Vomerine teeth 

 in two well-separated patches between posterior portions of internal 

 nares, nearly horizontal or scarcely inclined posteriorl3\ Tongue 

 broad, rounded, hind edge notched distinctly and this region free 

 for last fourth. Internal nares moderate. External nares well 

 separated, placed at third of antero-interorbital width. Canthus 

 rostralis not very evident. Interorbital depressed, nearly level. 

 Tympanum rounded, Ij in eye. 



Skin on back and upper surfaces of limbs smooth, with a few 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



scattered small tubercles on back. Lower surface of head, fore 

 limbs and tarsus, tibia and fibula, smooth. Belly, lower sides and 

 lower femoral regions rather coarsely granular. A fold of skin across 

 chest. 



Limbs all slender. Fingers not webbed. First finger a little 

 shorter than second, little dilated basally. Third finger longest, and 

 tips of all with broad flattened ellipsoid disks, each much less than 

 tympanum. Toes moderate, fourth longest and all well webbed, 

 nearly completely so, and distal disks similar to those of fingers. 

 Two small metatarsal tubercles. Hind edge of tarsus with low fold. 



Color in alcohol largely dull or pale brownish above, lighter or 

 paler below, and of uniform tint. Back with five lengthwise darker 

 streaks, median vertebral as triangle between eyes, and extends on 

 front of upper eyelids. From posterior surfaces of latter each outer 

 streak extends back, while outermost includes tympanum and runs 

 well lateral along body. Upper surfaces of limbs with well-defined 

 cross-bands, especially on femora and tibia. Hind surfaces of femora 

 mottled slightly with dusky. 



Length 30 mm. 



Type, No. 18,115, A. N. S. P. Mountains above Chinibo, 10,000 

 to 10,800 feet elevation, Ecuador. April, 1911. S. N. Rhoads. 



Only a single example, described above. It is related to Hyla 

 auraria Peters from South America. The latter differs in the follow- 

 ing points. Vomerine teeth within the limits of the internal nares, 

 snout long as eye, tympanum vertically oval or two-thirds length of 

 eye, three outer fingers webbed at base and back without five dark 

 longitudinal streaks. 



{Quinqiie, five; fascia, streak; with reference to the color of the 

 back.) 



Nototrema marsupiatum (Dumeril and Bibron). 



One example in poor preservation, taken in swamp-grass on a trip 

 between Hacienda Gorzon to Mount Pichincha, May 11, 1911. In 

 life color light green, breast and sides brassy-yellow, also spot back 

 of eye, and joints of limbs bluish. Length 17 mm. 



CYSTIGNATHIDiE. 



Hylodes conspicillatus Gunther. 



Twenty examples from Bucay, taken in July, 1911. They were 

 found in a little spring-run which extended down into a grassy tract. 

 In habits they suggested Acris, as they would jump into the water, 

 5wim across the brook, and come up again on the opposite side. The 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April^ 



largest is about 45 mm. long. Young examples show several whitish 

 spots in a streak, due to the fold extending down from the lower 

 edge of tympanum towards shoulder. 



Three more example^ with the same data differ from all the others 

 in the median narrow whitish line extending from the snout tip to 

 the vent. This line is clearly defined in all three. Many other of 

 the specimens show a trace of it on the upper lip at the snout tip,, 

 but soon fading out in the darker color of the rest of the upper surface 

 of the snout. These examples are thus strikingly like Boulenger's 

 figure of Hylodes unistrigatusJ 



Two other examples in the collection are likely identical. One 

 was secured at Hacienda Jalancay near Chinchi, in Chimbo, April, 

 1911. The other is young, and was taken at the camp near the 

 junction of the Chiguancay and Chanchan Rivers. 



Hylodes pagmae sp. nov. PI. VIII, upper figure. 



Body moderately depressed, elongately ovoid in contour, and 

 width a little less than that of head. Latter moderately broad, a 

 little' depressed, scarcely constricted. Snout slightly depressed^ 

 contour as viewed above rather triangular, tip obtuse. Eye rather 

 large, Ij in snout or equals space between front of eye and nostril. 

 Mouth large, rictus falling about opposite hind edge of eye. Lips 

 thin. Maxillary teeth fine, uniform, uniserial. Vomerine teeth in 

 two large patches, approximated until directed posteriorly behind 

 internal nares. Tongue apparently ovoid (distorted), last third 

 free, hind edge rounded. Internal nares moderately large. External 

 nares fall at third in antero-interorbital space as viewed in front. 

 Canthus rostralis not very distinct. Interorbital depressed, twice 

 width of upper eyelid. Tympanum trifle ovoid, its vertical diameter 

 1^ in eye. 



Skin largely smooth. Belly, lower sides and lower surfaces of 

 femoral regions granular, though granules apparently rather obsolete. 

 Region around tympanum smooth. Lower surface of fore limbs and 

 throat smooth. No fold across breast. 



Limbs all slender. Fingers and toes without any webbing, and 

 if ever present only slightly developed. First finger trifle longer 

 than second, and slightly swollen basally on inside, as if with rudi- 

 mentary pollex. Third finger longest. Tubercles on phalanges 

 not well developed. All fingers and toes with terminal rounded 

 disks, moderate in size or all much smaller than tympanum. Toes 



' Cat. Bntr. Sal, 1882, p. 217, PI. 14, fig. 4. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



slender, fourth much longest. First toe with slight basal dilation. 

 Metatarsal tubercles hardly developed.? Hind edge of tarsus with 

 slight low fold. 



Color in alcohol brownish above, slightly paler below, though latter 

 region also clouded slightly with brownish. A dark band connects 

 •eyes anteriorly, and another extends from hind edge of each eye as 

 W-shaped marking. Behind this several dark blotches on back, 

 first with angle directed forward. Several dark blotches along each 

 side of trunk. Femoral and tibial joints each with four transverse 

 dark blotches. Feet and upper surfaces of fore limbs with dark 

 blotches. All dark markings of upper surface with pale or grayish 

 edges. A dark bar above each tympanum and another from front 

 of eye to snout tip. 



Length 32 mm. 



Type, No. 18,244, A. N. S. P. Pagma Forest in the Chanchan 

 River basin, province of Chimborazo, Ecuador. April, 1911. S. N. 

 Rhoads. 



Paratype, No. 18,179, A. N. S. P. From the camp at the Junction 

 ■of the Chiguancay and Chanchan Rivers. This example differs 

 only in details of coloration and such characters as may result from 

 age. Length 21 mm. 



Hylodes achatinus Boulenger,^ based on a female 50 mm. long, is 

 related. It is, however, described and figured with the tongue 

 notched behind. Its color design is different, partially suggestive of 

 the present species, as if unfinished. 



Hylodes surdus Boulenger,^ has no tympanic disk, nostrils nearly 

 ■equally distant from eye and snout tip, and first finger shorter than 

 second. 



Hylodes whymperi Boulenger,i° has the tympanum, first finger 

 shorter than second, skin of back tubercular, and coloration different. 



Hylodes unistrigatus Giinther,^^ has the tympanum not quite half 

 diameter of eye, and a strong fold across the chest. 



Hylodes huckleyi Boulenger,!^ has the snout equal to the eye, 

 tympanum a little over a third length of eye, toes free and slightly 

 fringed, and skin above with smooth warts. 



8 Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1898, p. 120, PI. 15, figs. 2-2a. Cachabe 



9 Cat. Bat. Sal., 1882, p. 212, PI. 14, fig. 3. W. Ecuador. 

 ^° L. c, p. 218. Tortorillas and Cotocachi. 



11 Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 18.59, p. 416. W. Ecuador. 

 i2 Cat. Bat. Sal., 1882, p. 217, PI. 14, fig. 5. Intac. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April,, 



Hylodes longirostris Boulenger/'' differs in the long snout containing; 

 the eye-diameter about If in its length, and the coloration. 

 (Named for Pagma Forest, where the type was secured.) 



BNGYSTOMATID^. 

 Phryniscus laevis Gunther. 



Twenty from the mountains above Chimbo, at an elevation of 

 10,000 to 10,800 feet, in April, 1911. 



Nine from Hacienda Gorzon to foot of Mount Pichincha, on May 

 16,1911. 



One from Quito, on June 4, 1911. This and the above collected 

 by S. N. Rhoads. 



One obtained by Dr. M. Meitzner, from Huigra to Rio Chiguancay. 



Mr. Rhoads says these frogs were found in the open pastures along 

 the mountain side. They appeared to crawl or walk, and when one 

 endeavored to grasp or try to catch them, they weakly tried to hop. 

 The sexes were noticeably different, and the males were always much 

 smaller. As this was the spawning season, they were usually found 

 copulating. The males clasp the females very tightly, mount from 

 above, and their grasp is axillary. Sometimes another male would 

 grasp a male already in coitus. All found were in wet or damp 

 places, extremely abundant, and appeared usually oblivious to 

 danger. When handled they made a weak squeak. Variation in 

 color was very great, and on the lower surface of the body varied 

 from dark orange, brick-red to lighter or sometimes to a gamboge 

 tint. Upper surface of body usually not variable, mostly olive- 

 brown. None of the larger animals, as hawks, opossums, rats or 

 foxes seemed to prey on them. Their only enemy appeared to be 

 an ant thrush {Grallaria monticoJa), and it did feed on them. 



DENDROBATIDiE. 

 Dendrobates trivittatus (Spix). 



One example 19 mm. in length, from the camp near junction of 

 Chiguancay and Chanchan Rivers, taken in March, 1911. Color 

 with snout brown, back black, and white line, includes edge of ' 

 upper eyelid, to groin well contrasted. Lower surface uniformly 

 whitish. 



RANID^. 

 Phyllodromus pulchellus Espada. 



One example 15 mm. long from Bucay, in July, 1911. 

 13 Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1898, p. 120, PI. 15, fig. 1. Cachabe. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Phyllobates infraguttatus Boulenger. 



Two examples from Huigra in Chimbo, at 4,000 feet elevation, on 

 February 18, 1911. 



Twelve examples from camp at junction of Chiguancay and 

 Chanchan Rivers in March, 1911. 



Some of the above differ from Boulenger's figure in showing the 

 white spots of the lower region much larger or with the intervening 

 dark color quite narrow, producing a reticulated appearance. Some 

 also have a more or less large dark blotch at each side of the sternum. 

 Upper surfaces of hind legs in most all examples usually distinctly 

 cross-banded with darker. Possibly a few slight tubercles or granules 

 on the back may be due to preservation, or only variation. Most 

 are perfectly smooth. 



Six others, young with same data as last lot, show the bellj' and 

 lower surfaces more or less whitish, though usually with two dark 

 blotches on chest, one each side of median line. 



Mr. Rhoads says the adults were found with the tadpoles hanging^ 

 on their backs. These were apparently attached to the rugosities 

 or slight tubercles on the back, the tadpole hanging by means of its 

 mouth, with the appearance of holding on as if by a teat. The 

 tadpoles were always found attached with their tails drooping back- 

 ward, and six to ten were noticed^ on a single adult. In color the 

 tadpoles were leaden-black. The adults were quite noisy. 



Prostherapis whymperi Boulenger. 



One example 27 mm. long, on trip from Hacienda Gorzon to Mount 

 Pichincha, May 10, 1911. Color above blackish, finely spotted 

 with greenish-white and lateral stripe same color. Belly brassy- 

 brown and head and throat spots indistjnct. Found in a swamp. 



Hyloxalus huigrse sp. nov. PI. VIII, lower figure. 



Body depressed. Head moderate, depressed moderately. Snout 

 moderately depressed, rather angular as viewed from above, well 

 protruded beyond lower jaw. Eye large, about 1| in snout or equal 

 to space between front eye edge and nostril. Mouth large, rictus 

 extending back about opposite hind eye edge. Maxillary teeth 

 minute, mostly uniserial, each tooth simple, short and conic, and 

 mostly hidden by thin lip. Vomerine teeth absent. Tongue large, 

 ellipsoid, hind edge deeply emarginate, though rather evenly concave, 

 and hind third free. Internal nares moderate. External nares 

 small, mark inner third of antero-interorbital width. Canthus 

 rostralis scarcely distinct, and lores oblique. Interorbital flat. 

 Tympanum small, rounded, about one-third in eye length. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Skin perfectly smooth above and on sides of both trunk and limbs. 

 Lower surface of body, including breast, belly, and lower femoral 

 region, weakly granular, though granules all rather large in size. 

 Lower surfaces of fore limbs and throat, smooth. 



Limbs rather slender. Fingers and toes entirely free, without any 

 webs whatever. First finger a little shorter than second, dilated 

 basally with moderate tubercle or pollex, third longest, and tips of 

 all broadly dilated so that front edges wide, or greater tharf diameter 

 of tympanum. Toes slender, fourth much longest, and distal disks 

 or dilations similar to those on fingers. A well-developed tubercle 

 at base of first toe on sole of foot inside, and of about equal extent to 

 that of first finger. Tarsal fold very indistinct. 



Color in alcohol largely dull or gray-brown above, much paler 

 below. Back scarcely variegated. A dark broad band connects 

 •eyes across interorbital for its posterior extent and beyond till 

 opposite hind edge of tympani. Limbs above with indistinct darker 

 cross-bars or blotches. Groin not variegated, and breast and belly 

 likewise. 



Length 20 mm. 



Type, No. 18,113, A. N. S. P. Huigra, at an elevation about 4,000 

 feet, Ecuador. February 13, IQIL S. N. Rhoads. 



Related to Hyloxalus hocagei Espada,^* which differs in having the 

 ^kin quite smooth, canthus rostralis angular, loreal region nearly 

 vertical, tympanum half width of eye, toes nearly entirely webbed, 

 and coloration. 



(Named for Huigra, the type locality.) 

 Rana brevipalmata rhoadsi subsp. nov. PI. IX, upper figure. 



Body moderately depressed. Head moderately depressed, wider 

 than rest of body. Snout moderately depressed, somewhat pointed 

 as viewed from above, well protruded beyond lower jaw. Eye large, 

 about equals snout in length. Mouth large, rictus extends back 

 opposite front edge of tympanum. Maxillary teeth short, conic, 

 strong, uniserial, and hidden by lip. Vomerine teeth weak, small, 

 in two rounded patches between and partly behind internal nares. 

 Tongue large, sagittate or elongately triangular with deep notch 

 behind, and posteriorly free for a third its length. Internal nares 

 well separated, moderate in size. External nares small, widely sepa- 

 rated, further apart than interorbital width. Canthus rostralis little 

 developed, and lores oblique. Interorbital depressed, though 



^* Boulenger, Cat. Batr. Sal, 1882, p. 138. Sarayacu and Canelos. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



slightly convex. Tympanum moderate, rounded, about f orbital 

 length. 



Skin largely smooth above, and perfectly so on sides of both trunk 

 and limbs as well as entire lower portions. On back, between eyes 

 and vent, a number of minute obsolete wide-set granulations. 



Limbs slender. Fingers free and toes all completely webbed. 

 First finger longer than second, subequal with third, with large 

 tubercle or pollex basally inside. Tubercles on fingers and toes not 

 very conspicuous. Toes slender, and fourth much longest. Cuneate 

 tubercle at base of first toe well developed, though much smaller 

 than that of first finger. Tarsal fold very pronounced along inner 

 edge of tarsus. 



Color in alcohol with back and upper surface of head deep olive- 

 brown, marked obscurely with some rather wide-set, ill-defined 

 dusky spots. Lips and tympanum browni, and throat much paler 

 or lighter, also uniform. Fore limbs brownish, paler l)elow, and 

 upper surfaces with obscure dusky marks as streaks or blotches. 

 From elbow to palm, posteriorly, dark streak well defined. Hind 

 limbs brownish above, pale below, and both surfaces mottled with 

 rather coarse dark reticulations, most distinct or blackish along 

 hind femoral regions. Feet also variegated with dusky. Sides of 

 trunk with pale olive tint, with a few obscure dusky spots. Belly 

 pale like throat. 



Length 43 mm. 



Type, No. 18,051, A. N. S. P. Bucay, Province of Guayas, Western 

 Ecuador. July, 1911. S. N. Rhoads. 



Nos. 18,073, 18,080, and 18,082 to 18,084, paratypes, same data. 



This subspecies is closely related to Ranula hrevipalmata Cope,^^ 

 figured for comparison as Plate VIII, lower figure, but differs in several 

 characters, such as the smaller tympanum and much shorter snout. 

 It agrees, however, in the coloration, especially in not having the 

 limbs transversely barred with darker above. For comparison I 

 have had Cope's type. 



According to Mr. Rhoads, it lives about springs, and recalls the 

 habits of our spring frog (Rana clamato). 



A tadpole, with the same data as the examples from Bucay, is 

 likely identical. 



(Named for Mr. S. N. Rhoads.) 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1874, p. 131. Nauta. 

 12 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



REPTILIA. 



COLUBRIDJE. 



COLUBRIN.^. 

 Drymobius boddaertii (Sentzen). 



Two from between Huigra to Rio Chiguancay, in 1909-1911, 

 collected by Dr. Max Meitzner. 

 Drymobius dendrophis (Schlegel). " 



One, with same data as last. 



Erpetodryas fuscus (Linnseus). 



A large example from the Rio Chiguancay, taken by Mr. Rhoads 

 in March, 1911. It runs swiftly along the ground. 



Another, smaller, was taken near Bucay in July, 1911. It was 

 found in bushes, several feet above the ground. 

 Leptophis occidentalis (Gunther). 



One from between Huigra to Rio Chiguancay, in 1909-1911, 

 collected by Dr. Meitzner. 

 Liophis albiventris (Jan). 



One with same data as last, and another from Quito, taken by 

 Mr. Rhoads on June 4, 1911. 

 TJrotheca lateristriga (Berthold). 



One from between Huigra to Rio Chiguancay, 1909-1911, taken 

 by Dr. Meitzner. 

 Lampropeltis micropholis Cope. 



Eight examples, and one head, with same data as last. Mr. 

 Rhoads secured an example from Huigra, at 4,200 feet elevation, 

 on February 17, 1911. Another was also secured by him at Hacienda 

 Jalancay, Chinchi, in the Province of Chimborazo, in April. 1911. 

 Atractus badius (Boie). 



One from Huigra, at 4,500 feet elevation, found under the ground 

 on February 18, 1911, by Mr. Rhoads. Dr. Meitzner also secured 

 the larger example from between Huigra to Rio Chiguancay, in 

 1909-1911. 



HOMALOPSIN.E. 

 Leptodeira albofusca iLacepede). 



One from the lowlands near Duran, taken near the edge of a forest, 

 February 12, 1911. 



ELAPIN.E. 

 Elaps fraseri Boulenger. 



Two from between Huigra to Rio Chiguancay, secured l)etween 



1909 1911 bv Dr. Meitzner. 




1913.] • NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



AMBLYOEPHALID^. 

 Leptognathus ellipsifera Boulenger. 

 One, same data as last. 



Leptognathus andianus Boulenger. 



Two, also same data as preceding. 



CROTALID^. 



Lachesis schlegelii (Berthold). 



One, same data as preceding. 



Lachesis microphthalmus Cope. 



Two examples, and one head. These from Dr. Aleitzner, and 

 with same data as last. 



GECKONID^. 



Gonatodes caudiscutatus (Gunther). 



Two, secured in July, 1911, by Mr. Rhoads, at Bucay. They were 

 found living in crevices of porches of the second story of houses. 

 They were seen to come out on the screen, about a foot or so from 

 their retreat. Their movements were slow and sluggish, and they 

 darted suddenly, for a short distance only. 



IGUANID^. 



Anolis gemmosus O'Shaughnessy. 



Two from Bucay, in July, 1911, secured by Mr. Rhoads. 



Basiliscus galeritus A. Dumdril. 



Mr. Rhoads secured two from the camp at the junction of the 

 Rio Chiguancay and Rio Chanchan in March, 1911, and three more 

 at Bucay in July, 1911. 



According to Mr. Rhoads, it is a most interesting species. It was 

 found frequenting the banks of running streams, where they would 

 sit on the rocks in the open sunshine. These rocks were always 

 near the edge of the water. When disturbed, the lizards would 

 suddenly dart across the intervening running water to the next rock 

 or boulder, and then turn their heads around and look at the intruder 

 in a most apish fashion. In crossing the surface of the water their 

 feet and tails would move so rapidly that no portion of the animal 

 appeared submerged. Often the fore part of the body was raised 

 an inch or more above the surface. Frequently the lizards would 

 cross very turbulent water. When chased from rock to rock, they 

 would finally attempt to cross even wide torrents, and are able by 

 the great speed of their movements to go as far as thirty or forty feet 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF • [April, 



before becoming exhausted. They would then sink below the 

 surface, and if watched carefully they may have been found to rise 

 again farther down stream to swim towards the bank, though Mr. 

 Rhoads had not seen them reach it under these difficulties. 



Another variety, green and blue in color, was found up to 3,500 

 feet elevation, at least to Chanchan. It lives about the streams on 

 the edges of forests. When the sun appears these lizards would keep 

 along the edges of the water. One was seen to cross a small stream 

 near Bucay. 

 Liocephalus iridescens Gunther. 



One from between Huigra to Rio Chiguancay, 1909-1911, secured 

 by Dr. Meitzner. 

 Liocephalus guntheri Boulenger. 



Mr. Rhoads secured eight at Rio Bamba in April, 1911, and one 

 on a trip from Hacienda Gorzon to the foot of Mount Pichincha, 

 on May 11, 1911, at an elevation of 10,500 feet. Of the Bucay 

 examples, one was young and shows two lateral white lines, the 

 first from the hind eye-edge and second from below ear. 



TEIIDuE. 

 Ameiva septemlineata A. Dum6ril. 



One from camp at junction of Rio Chiguancay and Rio Chanchan 

 in March, 1911, two from Huigra in April, and six from Bucay in 

 July. All obtained by Mr. Rhoads. Some examples vary in having 

 an outer or fourth row of ventral plates, sometimes rudimentary 

 or again better developed. Most larger examples show no median 

 streak down the back, and present in only one case. 

 Proctoporus unicolor (Gray). 



One from Hacienda Gorzon to the foot of Mount Pichincha on 

 May 16, 1911. Taken by Mr. Rhoads. 



VENEZUELA. 



The Amphibians and Reptiles from Venezuela form part of the 

 collections of natural history objects brought together by Mr. 

 Francis E. Bond. Like the fishes, which I have previously reported, 

 they were all secured in the Orinoco delta region during the late winter 

 and early spring of 1911. Mr. Bond has kindly given the collec- 

 tion to the museum of the Academy. 



HYLIDiE. 

 Hyla maxima (Laurenti). 



One from near the mouth of the Manamo, found on a palm leaf. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



Another from the Manamo near Boca Uracoa. Mr. Brown says they 

 were very abundant and vociferous, doubtless due to the heavy rains 

 then prevailing. Both examples adult. 



OOLUBRID^. 

 COLUBRfNiE. 

 Helicops angulatus (Linnaeus). 



Two young, and several eggs containing similar specimens, from 

 Cariquito. 

 Drymobius boddaertii (Sentzen). 



Tw^o from Cariquito. 

 Phrynonax fasciatus (Peters). 



One from Cariquito. 

 Spilotes pullatas. 



Three large examples, all from Cariquito. 

 Coluber corais Boie. 



Two adults from Cariquito. 

 Erpetodryas sezcarinatus (Wagler). 



One obtained at Cariquito. 



Ehadinaea cobella (Linnaeus). 



One from the Juanipa River. 



HOMALOPSIN.E. 

 Oxybelis fulgidus (Daudin). 



One large example from Cariquito. It contained a lizard about 

 a foot in length. 

 Oxybelis acuminatus (Wied). 

 Two from Cariquito. 



BOIID^. 

 Corallus cookii Gray. 



Two from Cariquito. 



IQUANID^. 

 Anolis nitens bondi .subsp. nov. Plate 10. 



Body long, nearly cylindrical, and no dorso-nuchal fold. Tail 

 compressed, without crest. Head and trunk about two in tail. 

 Head depressed, longer than tibia. Snout depressed, tip rather 

 broadly convex. Eye lateral, elongate, much nearer ear than snout 

 tip. Eyelids minutely scaly, movable. Teeth moderately large, 

 and becoming larger posteriorly or below eyes. Teeth in front of 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



each jaw small. A small gular appendage, though no tramsverse 

 fold across throat. Interorbital space very narrow and concave. 

 Ear much smaller than eye, rounded. 



Upper head scales large, smooth, and in three or four series on 

 bony interorbital. Occipital scale rounded, much larger than ear. 

 Scales on back small or minute, subhexagonal, juxtaposed, smooth, 

 and about four vertebral series distinctly more or less uniformly 

 larger. Ventral scales rhomboidal, much larger than dorsal, and 

 each one with a distinct lengthwise keel. Upper scales on limbs all 

 rhomboid and more or less keeled, lower scales minute and like those 

 on back. Scales on tail all rather larger than those on Ijack, similar 

 to those comprising vertebral series. 



. Limbs slender, and long toe slender, with distal joints raised above 

 penultimate and mostly slightly swollen. Adpressed hind limb not 

 quite reaching forward to snout tip. 



Color in alcohol mostly pale or dull greenish-gray, with metallic 

 lustre, and lower surface of head and trunk more or less whitish. 

 Latter regions, besides lower surface of tail, with scattered dusky 

 dots, rather inconspicuously distributed. 



Total length 95 mm. 



Type, No. 18,277, A. N. S. P. Cariquito, Venezuela. March, 1911. 

 Francis E. Bond and Stewardson Brown. 



Only known from the above example. It is possibly only a form 

 of Anolis nitens (Wagler), though, according to Boulenger's account, 

 that species^^ would differ in having the head shorter than the tibia 

 the upper head scales keeled, the enlarged dorsal vertebral scales 

 in only two series, the adpressed hind limb reaching beyond the 

 snout tip, the digits ver}^ feebly dilated, the rounded tail more than 

 twice length of head and body, and the coloration. 



(Named for Mr. Francis E. Bond, who organized the Venezuela 

 Expedition of 1911.) 



Polychrus marmoratus (Linn^us). 



Four from Cariquito. 

 Tropidurus torquatus (Wied). 



Two from Cariquito. 



Plica plica (Linnaus). 



Four from Cariquito. 

 Iguana tuberculata Laurenti. 



Three examples from Corical. 



16 Cat. Lizards Brit. Mus., Ed. 2, II, 1885, p. 91. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



TEIID^. 



Tupinambis teguexin (Linnaeus). 



Two from Cariquito. 

 Tupinambis nigropunctatus (Spix). 

 Two examples from Cariquito. 



Ameiva ameiva (Linnaeus). 



One from the Jiianipa River and two from Cariquito. 

 Cnemidophorus lemniscatus (Daudin). 



Four males and two females from Cariquito. 



SCINCID^. 

 Mabuya agilis (Raddi). 



One from Cariquito. 



CROCODILIDJE. 

 Jacaretinga sclerops (Schneider). 

 One from Corical. 

 Jacaretinga Spix has page priority over Caiman Spix. 



TESTUDINID^. 

 Testudo denticulata Linnjeus. 



A large shell from the Juanipa River, also two small specimens 

 with same data. 



YUCATAN. 

 A small collection from the Chichen-itza Ruins, in the northeastern 

 part of this country, was made by Mr. Edward H. Thompson. 

 It becomes the property of the Academy through Dr. Ward Brinton. 



ENGYSTOMATIDiE. 



Rliinophrynus dorsalis Dum^ril and Bibron. 



OOLUBRIDiE. 



Coluber corais Linnaeus. 

 Oxybelis acuminatus (Wied). 

 Leptodeira personata Cope. 

 Himantodes gemmistriatus Cope. 

 Elaps fulvius Linnaeus. 



GLAUCONID^. 



Glauconia albifrons (Wagler). 



IGUANID^. 

 Ctenosaura acanthura (Shaw). 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



FAUNAL WORKS. 



Ecuador. 



BouLENGER, Geoege A. 1880. Reptiles et Batraciens recueillis par M. Emile 

 de Ville dans des Andes de I'Equateur. Bull. Soc. Zool. France. 1880, 

 pp. 41-48. 



1881. Description of a new Species of Enyalius in the Brussels Museum. 



Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1881, pp. 246-247, PI. 26. 



1882. Account of the Reptiles and Batrachians collected by Mr. Edward 



Whymper in Ecuador, in 1879-80. Aim. Mag. Nat. Hist., London,' (5), IX, 

 1882, pp. 4.57-468. 



1891. Travels amongst the Great Andes of the Equator, by Edward 



Whymper. Supplementary Appendi.v, Reptiles and Batrachia, pp. 128-136. 



1898. An Account of the Reptiles and Batrachians collected by Mr. 



W. F. H. Rosenberg in Western Ecuador. Proc. Zool. Soc, London,' 1898, 

 pp. 107-126, Pis. 10-18. 



1899. Description of a new Lizard of the genus Ameiva from Ecuador. 



L. c, 1899, pp. 517-518, PI. 28. 



. Descriptions of new Reptiles and Batrachians collected by Mr. 



P. O. Simons in the Andes of Ecuador. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., London, 

 (7), IV, 1899, pp. 454-457. 



1902. Descriptions of new Batrachians and Reptiles from Northwestern 



Ecuador. L. c, (7), IX, 1902, pp. 51-57. 



1912. Descriptions of new Reptiles from the Andes of South America, 



preserved in the British Museum. L. c, (8), X, 1912, pp. 420-424. 



Cope, Edward D. 1868. An examination of the Reptilia and Batrachia 

 obtained by the Orton Expedition to Ecuador and the Upper Amazon, with 

 notes on other species. Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1868, pp. 96-119. • 



1869. Seventh Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America. 



Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, Phila., XI, 1869, pp. 147-169, Pis. 9-11. (Pebas, 

 Ecuador, pp. 15-5-156.) 



1870. Eighth Contribution to the Herpetologv of Tropical America. 



L. c, 1870, pp. 553-559. (Pebas, Ecuador,^ pp. 553-554.) 



Despax, R. 1910. Mission geodesique de I'Equateur. Collections recueillies 

 par M. le Dr. Rivet. — Liste des Ophidiens et description des especes nou- 

 velles. Bull. Mus. Hist. Nat., Paris, 1910, No. 7, pp. 368-376. 



1911. Note preliminaire relative aux Lezards rapportes de I'Equateur 



par M. le Dr. Rivet. L. c, 1911, No^. 1, pp. 9-12. 



. Mission geodesique de I'Equateur. Collections recueillies par 



M. le Dr. Rivet. Batraciens anoures. L. c, 1911, No. 3, pp. 90-94. 



EsPADA, M. X. DE LA. 1871.' Zoologia. Faunae neotropicalis species qusedam 



nondum cognitse. Jorn. Sci. Math. Acad. Lisbon, III, 1871, pp. 57-65. 

 EsPADA, D. M. Jimenez de la. 1872. Nuevos Batr^cios Americanos. Ann. 



Soc Espan. Hist. Nat., Madrid, I, 1872, pp. 8-5-88. 

 EsPADA, . 1875. Viaje al Pacifico, Vertebr., Batr. an. Madrid, 1875, 



4to pp. 1-208, Pis. 7. [Not consulted.] 

 Garman, Samuel. 1892. On Reptiles collected by Dr. George Baur near 



Guayaquil, Ecuador. Bidl. Essex hist., XXIV, 1892, pp. 88-95. 

 GtJNTHER, Albert. 1859. List of the Cold-blooded Vertebrata collected by 



Mr. Fraser in the Andes of Western Ecuador. Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 



18-59, pp. 89-93. 



. Second List of Cold-blooded Vertebrata collected bv Mr. Fraser 



in the Andes of Western Ecuador. L. c, 1859, pp. 402-420, PI. 20. (Am- 

 phibians and Reptiles, pp. 402-418, PI. 20.) 



1860. Thu-d List of Cold-blooded Vertebrata collected by Mr. Fraser 



in Ecuador. L. c, 1860, pp. 233-240, PL 10. (Amphiliians and Reptiles, 

 pp. 233-236.) 



O'Shatjghnessy, W. E. 1880. Description of a new species of Anolis, with 

 notice of some other Species of that Genus from Ecuador. Proc Zool. Soc, 

 London, 1880, pp. 491-493, PI. 49. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



O'SHAtJGHNESSY, W- E. LS81. An Account of the Collection of Lizards made 

 by Mr. Buckley in Ecuador and now in the British Museum, with De- 

 scriptions of the New Species. L. c, 1881, pp. 227-245, Pis. 22-25. 



Orton, James. 1871. Contributions to the Natural History of the Valley of 

 Quito. Reptiles. Amer. Nat., V, 1871, p. 693. 



Peracca, M. G. 1897. Viaggio del Dr. Enrico Festa nell' Ecuador e region! 

 vicine. Rettili. Boll. Mas. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, XX, 1897, No. 300, 

 pp. 1-20. 



1904. L. c, Rettili ed Amfibi. L. c, XIX, 1904, No. 465, pp. 1-41. 



Werner, Franz. 1901. Ueber Reptilien und Batrachier aus Ecuador und 



Neu Guinea. Verhand. Zool. Ges. Wien, II, 1901, pp. 593-614. PL 5. 

 (Reptilien und Batrachier von Ecuador, pp. 593-602.) 



Venezuela. 



BoETTGER, O. 1893-94. Reptilien und Batrachier aus Venezuela. Bericht 

 Senckenberg. Naturf. Ges., 1893-94, pp. 3.5-42. 



1895. On .some Reptiles and Batrachians from Tobago. Journ. Trinidad 



Club, II, 1895, pp. 145-146. [Not consulted.] 



BouLENGER, G. A. 1903. On some Batrachia and Reptilia from Venezuela. 

 Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., London, (7), XI, 1903, pp. 481-484. 



1905. Description of a new snake from Venezuela. L. c, (7), XV, 



1905, p. 561. 



1911. On a new tree-frog from Trinidad, living in the Societv's gardens. 



Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1911, pp. 1082-1083, PI. 64. 



Cope, Edward D. 1884. Twelfth Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical 

 America. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, Phila., XXII, 1884, pp. 167-194, PI. 

 (Aruba, Leeward Islands, pp. 180-181; Curacao, pp. 181-182.) 



Ernst. Adolfo. 1877. Estudios sobre la Flora y Fauna de Venezuela, Caracas, 

 1877, p. 279. [Short notice of reptile fauna.] 



1887. Lacertilia venezuelana 6 sea, Enumeraci6n sistematica de las 



especies de Lagartos que hasta ahora se han encontrado en Venezuela. 

 Rev. CienfMus. Venezuela, I, 1887-88, pp. 213-218. 



Lidth de Jeude, T. W. van. 1887. On a collection of Reptiles and Fishes 



from the West Indies. Notes Leyd. Mus., IX, 1887, pp. 129-139, PI. 2. 



[Mostly Amphibia and Reptiles from Aruba and Curacao.] 

 Meek, Seth E. 1910. Notes on Batrachians and Reptiles from the Islands 



North of Venezuela. Field Mus. Nat. Hist. Pub., 140, Zool. Ser. VII, 



No. 12, 1910, pp. 415-418. 

 Mole, R. R., and Urich, F. W., 1894. List of Reptiles and Batrachians of 



Trinidad. Journ. Trinidad Club, II, 1894, pp. 77-79. [Not consulted.] 



— — . Biological Notes upon some of the Ophidia of Trinidad, B. W. I., 



with a Preliminary List of the Species recorded from the Island. Proc. 

 Zool. Soc, London, 1894, pp. 499-518. 



Peters, Wilhelm. 1877. Sammlung des Hrn. Dr. Carl Sachs in Venezuela. 



Monatsb. Ak. Wiss. Berlin, 1877, pp. 457-460, PI. I. 

 Stejneger, Leonhard. 1902. An Annotated List of Batrachians and Reptiles 



Collected in the Vicinity of La Guaira, Venezuela, with Descriptions of 



Two New Species of Snakes. Proc U. S. Nat. Mus., XXIV, 1902, pp. 



179-192, figs. 1-33. 

 Werner, Franz. 1900. Ueber Reptilien und Batrachier aus Columbien imd 



Trinidad. Verhand. Zool. Bot. Ges. Wien., L, 1900, pp. 262-272. 



Yucatan. 



Barbour, Thomas, and Cole, Leon J. 1906. Vertebrata from Yucatan. 

 Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool, L, 1906, pp. 101-1.59, Pis. 1-2. (Reptilia and 

 Amphibia, pp. 147-155.) 



Cope, Edward D. 1806. Fourth Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical 

 America. Proc Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1866, pp. 123-1.32. (I. The col- 

 lection made by direction of the Governor of Yucatan, Jose Salazar vStarregni, 

 by Arthur Schott, Naturalist of the Commission, and sent to the Smithsonian 

 Institution, pp. 123-127.) 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Cope, Edward D. 1885. A Contribution to the Herpetology of Mexico. Proc. 



Amcr. Philos. Soc, Phila., XXIT, 1884 (1885). pp! 379-404. (Cozume 



Island, off Eastern Yucatan, pp. 387-390.) 

 GuNTHER, Albert. 1902. Reptilia and Batrachia, Bioloqia Centrali-Americana, 



pp. 1-326, Pis. 1-76. 



Explanation of Plates V-X. 



Plate V. — Upper figure, Bufo coeruleocellatus sp. nov. 

 Lower figure, Bufo chanchanensis sp. nov. 



Plate VI. — Upper figure, Hyla chimbce sp. nov. 

 Lower figure, Hyla riobambce sp. nov. 



Plate VII. — Upper figure, Hijla quitoe sp. nov. 

 Lower figure, Hyla qidnquefasciaia sp. nov. 



Plate VIII. — Upper figure, Hylodes pagtnoe sp. nov. 

 Lower figure, Hyloxalus huigrce sp. nov. 



Plate IX. — Upper figure, Rana brevipahnata rhoadsi subsp. nov. 

 Lower figure, Rana brevipalmata Cope. 



Plate ^.^Anolis nitens bondi subsp. nov. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



NOTES ON THE TYPES OF SOME AMERICAN SPIDERS IN EUROPEAN 

 COLLECTIONS. 



BY NATHAN BANKS. 



During a recent trip in Europe, the author had the opportunity 

 to examine the types of a number of our spiders that are in European 

 ■collections. A considerable number of these, especially those de- 

 scribed by Count Keyserling, have been figured, and of these figures 

 are given of only a few, as in most cases we know his species, and the 

 types of most of his Theridiidse, described from the United States, 

 -are in the Marx collection in the U. S. National Museum. Figures 

 -are given of most of the other types that I was able to find, but in 

 some cases where the species is alread}^ well known to American 

 authors, I have not given figures. 



Few synonyms result from the examination, as in most cases the 

 unknown forms were from the western or southern part of the 

 country. 



The Koch material is dry and on pins; the colors of the Attidse 

 are in most cases well preserved, but the structural characters of 

 palpi and vulva can rarely be seen, unless the specimen could be 

 relaxed. However, most of these are readily recognized, as they come 

 from Pennsylvania, the spiders of which are familiar to Eastern 

 •collectors. I have given the notes as they were made, rather than 

 try to interpret, thus giving, others the same chance in using them. 



Species of Keyserling. 

 Xysticus discursans Keys. 



A small male; the sides of the cephalothorax evenly dark, a large 

 ;spot behind (barely divided) a median mark, and in front brownish, 

 with a white band through the eye-region; femur, patella, and tibia 

 ■of legs I and II evenly dark brown, tibia III and IV more maculate. 

 Abdomen very dark, the three bands going across, leaving only 

 narrow white marks. 

 Xysticus limbatus Keys. 



Two females from Texas labelled type; one (fig. a) has legs pale, 

 and a lyre-shaped pale mark on the cephalothorax; the other (fig. b), 

 with more shrunken abdomen, is much darker, and the legs more 

 mottled. 




178 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Xysticus limbatus Keys. 

 Xysticus punctatus Keys. PI. XI, fig. 9. 



A male in Keyserling's collection labelled X. striatus type, is, I 

 suppose, this species, as it agrees with his description and is from 

 Georgia; the markings in the middle are hardly as heavy as those on 

 the sides; it may be the male of X. variabilis. 

 Xysticus 4-lineatus Keys. 



This has been correctly identified. 



Xysticus gulosus Keys. 



American identifications are correct. 

 Xysticus emertoni Keys. Fig. 11. 



Female from Georgia; a large reddish species, the sides of cephalo- 

 thorax with sinuate pale lines. 

 Xysticus benefactor Keys. Fig. 18. 



Resembles A^. stomachosus; the cephalothorax with four brown 

 spots behind; dorsum of abdomen brown, with a broad pale mark, 

 indented three times on each side. 



Xysticus hamatus Keys. Fig. 7. 



A male from Kentucky, with very distinct abdominal pattern. 

 Xysticus lenis Keys. 



Immature female. A lichen-gray-brown species, much mottled 

 especially on legs; base of patella? above with two parallel black 

 marks; five black spots on the cephalothorax. 



Xysticus stomachosus Keys. 



Four females, as we have identified it. 



Xysticus locuples Keys. Fig. 10. 



A large red-brown species; sides rather evenly red-brown; legs 

 pale; the male has very long legs, very dark, the cephalothorax with 

 four dark spots and an elongate median spot, the legs lined above 

 with pale. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Xysticus variabilis Keys. Fig. 6. 



One female, a small species, which resembles a young stomachosus. 

 Synema nigromaculata Keys. 



This is our *S. parvula; the apical dark mark very plain, but not 

 distinct on the venter nor around the spinnerets. 



S. parvula of Keyserling's collection has the white band on base of 

 abdomen more distinct, and the dark band at apex goes down on 

 venter and forms a ring around the spinnerets. No difference in 

 .structure as far as I can see. 



Misumena spinosa Keys. Fig. 2. 



Very similar to M. asperata. 



Misumena georgiana Keys. Fig. 16. 



The cephalothorax shows a white X-mark very distinctly; the 

 femora are rather short. 

 Tmarus griseus Keys. 



Is a female lacking one moult of maturity, the femora somewhat 

 marmorate. 

 Tmarus floridensis Keys. 



Appears to be T. griseus, a mature female, but legs all pale. 



Ebo oblonga Simon. Fig. 4. 



Femur II not as long as the abdomen, tibia II as long as femur; 

 cephalothorax white, brown on the sides, but the margins pale. 

 Two females and a male, none Cjuite mature. 

 Philodromus praelustris Keys. Fig. l. 



The female is immature; the male is figured. 



Philodromus marxi Keys. Fig. 17. 



The cephalothorax very broad; it is close to P. ornatus and perhaps 

 the same; the Wisconsin specimen seems surely P. ornatus, but the 

 others are probably an allied species. 



Philodromus satullus Keys. Fig. 5. 



A small, even graj' species; legs III and IV with a dark line along 

 lower outer side on femur, tibia, and patella, most distinct on the 

 latter; similar line, but fainter, on the lower posterior side of leg II. 



Philodromus expositus Keys. Fig. 12. 



All femora clotted below as in figure; the cephalothorax a uniform 

 grayish-brown; and so probably not P. signatus Blackwall. 

 liinyphia galbea Keys. Plate XII, figs. 28, 31. 



Looks like a large Bathyphantes, and the vulva is on the same plan. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April^ 



Pachygnatha furcillata Keys. Fig. 3. . 



One female. The mandibles show two large teeth on front of 

 groove and two smaller behind the groove, but it appears to be 

 P. brevis Emer. {Xanthostoma Koch.) 



Species of Simon. 



Glenognatha emertoni Simon. Fig. 22. 



The figures will serve to identify this striking species. 

 Azilia vagepicta Simon. Fig. 14. 



The venter has a large yellow spot on the middle, and one npar 

 the spinnerets; tibiae I and II with three broad dark bands. 

 Cicurina robusta Simon. Plate XIII, fig. 32. 



Several females, with characteristic vulva. 

 Cicurina nevadensis Simon. Fig. 44. 



One female; pale, with four dark chevrons; a little larger than 

 C. tersa. Vulva not deeply colored. 



Cicurina tersa Simon. Figs. 45, 48. 



Male and females. Abdomen pale, with only a few blackish 

 marks forming incomplete herring-bone marks. 

 Cicurina atomaria Simon. Fig. 43. 



Three females. A very dark species, of medium size; legs brown 

 (not reddish), abdomen and venter with many dark chevrons and 

 streaks, sternum dark. 



Cicurina simplex Simon. Fig. 33. 



Several females, with a very long vulva. 

 Cicurina ludovicina Simon. Fig. 33. 



Several females, the vulva is very broad. 



Cybaeus pusillus Simon. Figs. 34, 40. 



This is a Cicurina, as Simon has recently recognized. 



Cybaeus morosus Simon. Fjg. 37. 



A small dark species, several females. 

 Cybaeus reticulatus Simon. 



This is an extremely common spider on the west coast up to 

 Alaska, and already well known in this country. 



Coelotes bimucronatus Simon. Fig. 46. 



A large, dark species, with the tibia and metatarsi darker than the 

 tarsi. One male. 

 Cryphoeca peckhami Simon. Fig. .36. 



Looks like a small, pale Cicurina. The P. M. E. their diameter 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



apart, and closer to the smaller P. S. E. Abdomen pale; very- 

 hairy, with a few dark bands on the apical part; much as in some 

 Cicurinas. 

 Tegenaria emertoni Simon. Figs. 39, 41. 



Many pale marks on basal part of abdomen, but dark at the tip. 

 Male and female. 

 Tegenaria nana Simon. Fig. 47. 



A small pale species, with markings similar to those of Cicurina 

 arcuata on the abdomen. Two females. 



Amaurobius pictus Simon. Fig. 24. 



As we have identified it, with many marks on the abdomen. 



Amaurobius severus Simon. Fig. 27." 



The abdomen above has only four pale basal spots. 

 Amaurobius nevadensis Simon. Fig. 20. 



As large as A. severus, but the abdomen of the female has no pale 

 marks on the base, but in male there is one each side. 

 Plectrurys tristis Simon. Fig. 29. 



The male palpus is figured. 



Physocyclus dugesi Simon. Fig. 25. 



One male, the palpus is very complicated. 



Megamyrmecion californicum Simon. Fig. 13. 



One immature female, but the same as I have identified from 

 California. 

 Sergiolus cyaneiventris Simon. Fig. 8. 



One female. Cephalothorax and legs all reddish, abdomen 

 blackish, a narrow white band across middle, and just behind it are 

 the two dark impressed lines; all femora with very stout bristles; 

 no dorsal groove. 

 Castianeira bicalcarata Simon. Figs. 21, 26. 



One male. Cephalothorax yellowish -brown; abdomen small, pale; 

 legs slender, yellowish. Mandibles large and stout; sternum as 

 Inroad as long. 

 Maypacius floridanus Simon. Fig. 30. 



A slender species like a Tibellus, the abdomen spotted beneath, 

 spots on the mandibles, and femora and tibia I dark beneath, spotted 

 in front. Not mature. 



Titiotus californicus Simon. Fig. 23. 



The head resembles an Amaurobius; a very large species, legs 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



long, with long spines, those under tibia I a little longer than the 

 width of that joint; the abdomen is shrunken. 



Sosilaus spiniger Simon. Fig. 19. 



A very striking little species; the eyes on black spots. 



Sosippus californicus Simon. Fig. 15. 



Cephalothorax entirely dark, no pale median stripe, but rather 

 paler toward margins; abdomen pale, with broad dark stripe above, 

 indented on the sides with faint pale marks, and in male with a 

 lateral dark stripe above, so the abdomen appears dark, with two 

 pale longitudinal stripes; venter pale; metatarsi and tarsi I and II 

 very long and with very long hair and long scopulas. 



Species of Becker. 



Agelena hentzi Becker. Fig. 42. 



Three specimens, one (a female) mature; a pale, moderate-sized 

 specimen of A. ncevia. 



Singa van Bruysellii Becker. 



A male, but palpus is so bent under that I cannot see the structure. 

 The head is prominent, projecting in front; femur I is hairy, with 

 only a few spines, none as long as the width of the joint; this joint 

 is very dark near the tip, darkening gradually from near the base 

 which is pale. Venter has four white spots, two a little before the 

 spinnerets and surrounded by black, and one each side of the lung- 

 slits, further apart than the other two. 



Theridium glaucescens Becker. 



Two specimens (females) ; it is what Keyserling has so identified, 

 and is not uncommon in the Atlantic States. 



Lycosa febriculosa Becker. 



This is the young of L. aspersa or L. hellus. The cephalothorax 

 with a narrow median pale line from eye-region. Abdomen with 

 outline of a basal spear-mark, and irregular dark spots behind; 

 venter heavily spotted. Legs pale, not distinctly marked, not very 

 long; sternum dark, with a median pale stripe not reaching to the tip. 



Lycosa exalbida Becker. 



This has been recorded from the United States, but erroneously; 

 it is from Brazil; it looks much like a half-grown Ardosa cinerea. 

 There is a spine at middle above on tibise III and IV, but none at the 

 base. 




1913.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 183 



Species of Koch. 



Corinna tricolor Koch. 



One female, A. M. E. closer to A. S. E. than to each other, P. M. E. 

 about three diameters apart, closer to P. S. E. A distinct species. 



Corinna amoena Koch. 



A female is ornata Htz. Cephalothorax reddish, femur I blackish, 

 hind tibia and patella banded. 



Corinna cingulata Koch. 



Two females are bivittata Keys. ; two bands on abdomen, hind legs 

 lined, femur I dark on base, rest pale. 



Hegalostrata venifica Karsch. 



One male ; a tooth at base of fang, two large teeth on the paturon, 

 outer one curved forward; tibial process of male palpus is about 

 three times as long as broad, as broad at tip as at base, the tip ob- 

 liquely truncate. 



Xystious luctans Koch. 



Not in the Berlin Museum, although there are several species 

 from Carolina, but not labelled, as stomachosus, gulosus, and Coria- 

 rachne versicolor. 



Agelena pennsylvanica Koch. 



Three specimens; are our common A. ncevia, one is a good-sized, 

 well-marked female, the two others are not mature. 

 Teratodes depressus Koch. 



I did not find in the Berlin collection, but there is no doubt as to 

 what it is from the figure and description. 

 Pachygnatha tristriata Koch. 

 P. xanthostoma Koch. 



In the Berlin Museum are four specimens behind a label "Pennsyl. 

 Zimm.," but no species label, these are his tristriata according to the 

 description, and are what Emerton has so identified. 



Following this is a label ''tristriata" and " Pennsjd. Zimm."; 

 behind these labels are seven specimens of our P. hrevis. There are 

 no other American Pachj^gnatha in the collection. The name 

 labels have been put on after Koch's time, the locality labels are 

 original. It is therefore evident that the label "tristriata" has been 

 misplaced, and that the seven specimens labelled "tristriata" are 

 Koch's xanthostoma, since they agree with his description, and that 

 P. xanthostoma is P. hrevis. 

 13 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Epeira hispida Koch. 



Two dry males. Tibia I curved at base, slender; tibia II thick- 

 ened at end and very spinose, the metatarsus curved at the base. 

 The body and legs with yellowish hair, tibia I dark at base -and on 

 middle. 

 Epeira ravilla Koch. 



One dry female, the abdomen shrunken and partly destroyed. 

 Cephalothorax densely long white-haired. Femora I and II black, 

 other joints reddish-brown to yellowish, dark on tips of tibia I; erect 

 spines on femur I not as long as thickness of the joint; femur III 

 shows above a pale line margined with dark ; all legs with much 

 white hair. A large species. 

 Gasteracantlia pallida Koch. 



Not in the Berlin Museum. 



Phidippus carolinus Koch. 



A large species, female, densely white-haired. Mandibles green, 

 palpi and clypeus with very long white hair; cephalothorax mostly 

 white-haired; legs not plainly banded, but leg T has black hair at 

 the apex of the tibia, the rest of the fringe is white; hind tibia very 

 plainly black at tip; venter with a narrow, black, median stripe, 

 but elsewhere densely white.-haired ; above the abdomen is red each 

 side behind, separated by black, and a white spot in front. 



Phidippus asinarius Koch. 



One female; this is plainly P. mystaceus Hentz; the white spots 

 on cephalothorax are plain, the mandibles red-brown, venter all 

 white-haired. 

 Phidippus testaceus Koch. 



Two specimens, one badly rubbed and may not be the same as the 

 other, this latter is probably P. podagrosus {multiformis). Mandibles 

 greenish, clypeus with yellowish hair, tips of patellae and tibiae dark; 

 venter with pale median stripe, dark each side of this, and then the 

 outer sides pale. 

 Phidippus smaragdifer Koch. 



Two from New Orleans; are audax, not variegatus. The label 

 says '^variegatus Lucas," so all labels were probably written some 

 time after Koch described the species. 

 Phidippus lunulatus Koch. 



A male ; the cephalothorax shows a white band coming up on each 

 side ; mandibles green ; leg I with long black fringe on tibia, long 

 white hair on inner side of patella, and long white hair on bases of 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



metatarsus and tarsus, rest black-haired; hind legs plainly banded; 

 femur of male palpus white-haired above. It is Ph. otiosus Htz. 



Phidippus elegans Koch. 



A young female; mandibles rather reddish, dorsum of abdomen 

 with a median stripe of greenish scales, and some green scales in 

 front. 



It is probably Ph. multicolor Htz. 

 Phidippus purpurifer Koch. 



Male and female from "Amer. Sept., Bescke," so quite probably 

 not from the United States. It is not Ph. audax. A very large 

 species; purple mandibles, the wrinkles on them not as continuous 

 as in audax, palpus with white hair, clypeus snow-white, tibia I jet- 

 black with a black fringe, venter wholly black, dorsum of abdomen 

 marked much like audax, but a distinct white basal band. 



Phidippus togatus Koch. 



A female. Besides the three white spots, there is a white i)and 

 around the abdomen above, and on the venter a broad black median 

 stripe margined with white; mandibles green above, blue near tips; 

 a hair tuft in front of dorsal eyes, and behind anterior lateral eyes 

 are many rather scattered bristles; white hair on patellae, and on 

 bases of tibiae and metatarsi I and II ; on the hind legs the basal half 

 of tibia and part of metatarsus are plainly pale, rest black. 



Phidippus paludatus Koch. 



Red only above, and not reaching eyes; abdomen with a white 

 band at base and four spots behind white, venter dark with tAvo 

 pale median lines ; mandibles dark red-brown on the base, paler 

 toward the tip; no hair tufts, but long hairs all over the cephalo- 

 thorax; clypeus dark. A male, palpus bent under and perhaps not 

 quite adult. 



Phidippus regius Koch. 



This Cuban species, as I have identified it. IMandibles strongly 

 wrinkled and green; clypeus densely white-haired; legs plainly 

 banded, tarsi I mostly black, metatarsus pale all over; hair tufts 

 in front of dorsal eyes. 

 Phidippus auotus Koch. 



A female. Mandibles faintly green, clypeus with long white hairs, 

 a hair-tuft in front of dorsal eyes, leg I without any long fringes; 

 abdomen with bright red hair above, a basal white band, behind is 

 probably a black stripe, but here the abdomen is broken, sides dark, 

 venter with dark median stripe. 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Phidippus electus Koch. 



A young, half-grown female. Mandibles scarcely gr£en on the 

 apical part, clypeus white-haired, legs with many short white hairs; 

 abdomen shrunken, some metallic scales behind, with much white 

 on the sides above, venter with a broad black median stripe, and 

 white hairs each side. 

 Phidippus alchymista Koch. 



Male and female, is Ph. audax Hentz; is marked in every way like 

 his concinnatus. 

 Fhidippas concinnatus Koch. 



A male, is Ph. audax; spots on abdomen are snow-white, white 

 hair on inner side of patella I, tibia I with black fringe below. 

 Phidippus dubiosus Koch. 



One young specimen, is audax Hentz. 

 Phidippus personatus Koch. . 



Four specimens, all are young Ph. audax; the spots on abdomen 

 are yellowish. 

 Phidippus mundulus Koch. 



Three specimens; two are surely Ph. audax not mature; the other 

 is much rubbed and has some green metallic scales on abdomen, and 

 perhaps Ph. multicolor Htz. 

 Plexippus rufus Koch. 



One specimen, is Dendryphantes militaris. 

 Plexippus bivittatus Koch. 



A young, not half-grown specimen of Phidippus rufus Hentz. 

 Plexippus undata Koch. 



A male, Maria vittata, which is colored as in the female. 

 Plexippus albovittatus Koch. 



Two young rubbed specimens, appear to be Dendryphantes militaris; 

 clypeus white haired, cannot see any marks on the abdomen, which 

 has white scales on it; the mandibles are red-brown. 

 Eris aurigera Koch. 



Four specimens, male, are Dendryphantes militaris Hentz. 



Euophrys leucophaea Koch. 



One male, is Dendryphantes octavus Hentz {mstivalis Em.). 

 Euophrys humilis Koch. 



One female, not quite mature, is Dendryphantes militaris Hentz. 

 Euophrys amabilis Koch. 



A young female, is young of Phidippus podagrosus Hentz {multi- 

 formis Emer.). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



Euophrys obfuscata Koch. 



A female, is Habrocestum pulex. 

 Msevia aurulenta Koch. 



One, is Tutelina elegans Hentz. 

 Maevia annulipes Koch. 



One, very small and young; cephalothorax very low and flat; 

 the abdomen so shrunken and wrinkled that one can see no markings, 

 venter all pale; may be young of Mcevia vittata Hentz. 



Maevia pencillata Koch. 



Three males in good condition, are M. niger Htz. The three 

 tufts on head are very distinct. 

 Maevia sulphurea Koch. 



One, abdomen gone, but appears to be Wala mitrata Hentz. 



Maevia pallida Koch. 



One, also Wala mitrata Hentz. 

 Maevia tibialis Koch. 



One, in good condition, our Admestina as already so identified. 

 Maevia lineata Koch. 



One male, in good condition, our Metacyrba, long known under 

 this name. 

 Fhiale modesta Koch. 



One female, nearly all red, a basal yellow band on abdomen, 

 venter pale in the middle, is Phidippiis cardinalis Htz. 

 Maevia cristata Koch. 



One male from Pennsylvania, in good condition, is Tutelina elegans 

 Hentz. The crest each side of head and the fringe on top of tibia I 

 are very distinct. 



Marpissa varia Koch. 



This is a half-grown specimen of M. undata DeGeer; one specimen. 



Callithera aulica Koch. 



One male and five females, are Salticus scenicus. 



Janus gibberosus Koch. 



Is Sijnemosijna formica Hentz, as already so placed. 



Janus albocinctus Koch. 



One adult male glued on a point. A very small species, with 

 flat cephalothorax, pars cephalica dark; abdomen dark, with a white 

 cross-band; leg I rather slender, but heavier than the others, a faint 

 dark line above on tibia I, and side of hind patella dark. This is 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF lApHl, 



evidently Peckhamia scorpiona Htz., so for our Myrmarachne I 



propose 



Myrmarachne hentzi n. n. 



Salticus ephippiatus Peck, Emer. ((not Hentz). 

 SaUicus albocinctus Banks (not Koch). 



Explanation of Plates XI, XII, XIII. 

 Plate XI. 



Fig. 1. — Philodromus prcelustris. 



Fig. 2. — Misumena spinosa, palpus and abdomen. 



Fig. 3. — Pachygnatha furcillata, abdomen and mandible. 



Fig. i.—~Ebo oblonga, abdomen. 



Fig. 5. — Philodromus satullus, leg. 



Fig. 6. — Xi/sticu.s }'(iri<iJ)iU.s, dorsum. 



Fig. 7. — Xi/slir/is luDniiliis, abdomen. 



Fig. 8. — Svijliiiiis ci/atH in ntris, vulva. 



Fig. 9. — Xi/sliciis piiiirhitns, abdomen. 



Fig. 10.— A'//.s//r//x lnr,lj,lrs, Vulva. 



Fig. 11. — A'^.s//.''(/.s- iiiiiiioni, vulva. 



Fig. 12. — Philodromus expositus, femur. 



Fig. 13. — Megamyrmecion californicwn, eyes. 



Fig. 14. — Azilia vagepicta, eyes, vulva, femur. 



Fig. 15. — Sosippus californicus, vulva. 



Fig. 16. — Misumena georgiana, vulva, thoracic mark. 



Fig. 17. — Philodromus marxi, vulva. 



Fig. 18. — Xysticus benefactor, vulva. 



Plate XII. 



Fig. 19. — Sosilaus spiniger, eyes and palpus. 



Fig. 20. — Amaurobius yievadensis, vulva and palpus. 



Fig. 21. — Cdstiiinn'ni Jiiciilcaraia, palpus. 



Fig. 22. — (;h iini/niillia innrtDni, palpus, mandible. 



Fig. 2'i.—Tilintiis nih'fnrnirus, eves, vulva. 



Fig. 24.—A>nnurnhiNs pnius, vulva. 



Fig. 2.5. — Phi/s,iri/rh,s ,li)i/i'.si\ palpus. 



Fig. 26.—i'asli,u,rini Inralcarata. 



Fig. 27. — Amaurobius severus, vulva. 



Fig. 28. — Linyphia galbea, vulva. 



Fig. 29. — Plectrurys tristis, palpus. 



Fig. 30. — Maypacius floridanus, eyes. 



Fig. 31. — Linyphia galbea, abdomen. 



Plate XIII. 



Fig. 32. — Cicurina robusla, vulva. 



Fig. 33. — Cicurina ludovicina, vulva. 



Fig. 34. — Cicurina pusilla, vulva. 



Fig. 35. — Cicurina simplex, vulva. 



Fig. 36. — Cryphoeca peckhami, vulva, leg. 



Fig. 37. — Cybceus morosus, vulva. 



Fig. 38. — Cicurina simplex, palpus. 



Fig. 39. — Tegenaria emertoni, vulva, spinneret. 



Fig. 40. — Cicurina pusilla, palpus. 



Fig. 41. — Tegenaria emertoni, palpus. 



Fig. 42. — Agelena hentzi, vulva. 



Fig. 43. — Cicurina atomaria, vulva. 



Fig. 44. — Cicurina nevadensis, vulva. 



Fig. 45. — Cicurina tersa, vulva. 



Fig. 46. — Calotes bimucronatus, palpus. 



Fig. 47. — Tegenaria nana, eyes, vulva. 



Fig. 48. — Cicurina tersa, palpus. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



ON A COLLECTION OF BIKDS OBTAINED BY THE FRANCIS E. BOND EXPEDI- 

 TION IN THE ORINOCO DELTA AND PARIA PENINSULA, VENEZUELA- 



BY WITMER STONE. 



During the early part of 1911 Mr. Francis E. Bond conducted 

 an expedition to the coast of Venezuela, mainly in the delta of the 

 Orinoco. He was accompanied by Messrs. Stewardson Brown, Con- 

 servator of the Botanical Section of the Academy, and Thomas S. 

 Gillin, of Ambler, Pa. 



Among the collections obtained by the expedition and generously 

 presented by Mr. Bond to the Academy is a series of 504 bird skins, 

 prepared almost entirely by Mr. Gillin from specimens shot bj- 

 himself and other members of the party. 



It has been my privilege to study this collection, a complete list 

 of which is presented herewith. 



In order to better understand the relative position of the several 

 localities, I have drawn up a brief itinerary of the expedition from 

 notes furnished me by Mr. Brown. 



Starting from Port of Spain, Trinidad, the party crossed to the 

 peninsula of Paria, stopping at Cariaquito on the south shore. 

 Collecting was carried on here January 13-22, mainly close to the 

 coast and never more than a mile or two inland. Crossing the gulf, 

 they stopped at Pedernales, January 25-27, and then sailed up the 

 Vagre River, a sort of confluence of several streams, and thence up 

 the Guanipa, arriving at the village of that name on February 2. 

 On February 6, they returned to the Vagre, and on the 8th went up 

 the Manimo to the mouth of the Uracoa, which they reached on 

 February 10. They then ascended this stream to La Pedrita, where 

 they remained February 12-18, and then returning to the Manimo 

 followed it to Tucapeta, some forty miles from the Orinoco itself. 

 Here they spent February 22-23, and then returned down the Manimo 

 to Pedernales, stopping at the Corisal, February 25-28, and reaching 

 the coast on March 4. Thence they returned to Cariaquito, where 

 they stopped March 10-18 to make additional collections before 

 crossing to Trinidad. 



In a region so long familiar to bird collectors as the Orinoco delta 

 it is not surprising that no new forms were obtained, but some of the 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



records both from this district and from Cariaquito considerably 

 extend the range of the species, and in view of the lack of definite 

 localities in the case of early collections, the present list will, it is 

 hoped, be of value in ascertaining the exact range of the various 

 Venezuelan species. 



It will be noticed that 101 species were obtained only at localities 

 in the delta country, while 48 were found only at Cariaquito on the 

 Paria peninsula, and 23 were foUnd in both regions. These figures 

 mean little, however, as the collection is not sufficiently comprehen- 

 sive to warrant any general deductions on distribution. A certain 

 number of the Cariaquito species, such as Crypturus columhianus, 

 Ceryle americana, Microrhopias grisea intermedia, Dendrocinda 

 meruloides phceochroa, Myiozetetes similis columhianus, Chiroxiphia 

 lanceolata, Thryophilus rufalhus castanonotis, Pachysylvia aurantiifrons 

 saturata, Compsothylypis pitiayumi elegans, Basileuterus auricapillus 

 olivascens, Tanagra trinitatis, Tangara desmerestii, and Icterus auri- 

 capillus, are mainly restricted to the mountainous north coast of 

 Venezuela, extending eastward from Colombia. There are, however, 

 many others taken only at Cariaquito which are well known to 

 range also over the delta region. Notes on the color of the tarsi, 

 irides, etc., have been taken from Mr. Gillin's labels, while a few 

 notes on distribution and abundance received from Mr. Brown bear 

 his initials. 



TINAMID^. 



1. Crypturus columbianus Salvadori. Colombian Tinamou. 



Crypturus columbianus Salvadori, Cat. Bii'd Brit. Mus., xxvii, p. 51.5, 1895 

 (Neche, Antioquia). 



Cariaquito, cf' January 17 (58,713), & 9 March 16 (58,712, 

 58,714). 



These specimens are related to C. boucardi and appear referable 

 to the present form, although I have not been able to compare them 

 with authentic specimens. 



"Legs red." 



ORACID^. 



2. Crax alector Linn. Crested Curassow. 



Crax Alector Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., i, Ed. XII, p. 269, 1766. ("In America 

 Calidiore" = Cayenne.) 



Cano Vagre, 9 January 29 (58,730). 



"Cere orange-yellow, beak and legs bluish lead color, iris hazel." 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



COLUMBID^. 



3. Columba rufina Temm. and Knip. Rufous Pigeon. 



Columha Rufina Temminck and Knip, Pig. i, p. 59, PI. 24, 1808-11 (French 

 Guiana). 



Corosal, a^ February 27 (58,710). 



Settlement on Vagre River, cf January 28 (58,709). 



"Iris red, legs and feet dark carmine." 



This was the common pigeon of the delta country and occurred in 



immense flocks (S. B.). 



4. Scardafella ridgwayi Richmond. Ridgway's Dove. 



Scardafella ridgwayi Richmond, Proc. U. S. Nat. Miis., xviii, p. 6G0, 1896 

 (Margarita Island). 



Cano Corosal, 9 9 cf February 25 (58,705-7), 9 February 26 



(58,704). 



"Iris red-brown." 



5. Chsemepelia rufipennis (Bonap.). Rufous-winged Ground-Dove. 



Columbina rufipennis Bonaparte, Consp. Av. ii, p. 79, 1855 (Carthagena, 

 Colombia). 



Pedernales, cf January 26 (58,708), and another without data. 



"Legs flesh-color." 



6. Leptotila verreauxi insularis Richmond. Margarita Dove. 



Leptotila insularis Richmond, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xviii, p. 509, 1895 

 (Margarita Island). 



Cariaquito, d" March 16 (58,711). 



"Iris pale yellow, feet and skin around the eye sky blue." 



OPISTHOOOMIDiE. 



7. Opisthocomus hoazin (P. L. S. Muller). Hoatzin. 



Phasianus Hoazin P. L. S. Mi'iller, Syst. Nat. Siippl., p. 125, 1776 



(Cayenne). 



Guinipa River, three specimens January 31 (58,703, 58,802-3). 



"Iris carmine, skin around the eye lead color." 



Occurred along all the streams as far as we went. Most abundant 

 above the mangrove area. Came to feed at sunset on the ground in 

 the savannas (S. B.). 



RALLID^. 



8. Aramides cajanea (P. L. S. Muller). Cayenne Wood Rail. 



FuUca Cajanea P. L. S. Miiller, Natur.syst. Suppl., p. 119, 1776 (Cayenne). 

 Cariaquito, 9 January 22 (58,716), d" 9 March 12 (58,715 and 

 58,717). 



Caiio Vagre, d" January 29 (58,718). 



"Eyelids and legs red-pink, bill greenish, yellowish at base." 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



LARID^. 



9. Phaetusa chloropoda (Vieill.). Great-billed Tern. 



Sterna chloropoda Vieillot, N. Diet. d'Hist. Nat., xxxii. p. 171, 1818 (Para- 

 guay). 



Manimo River, 9 & & February 9 (58,742-4). 



La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, 9 February 15 (50,741). 



"Bill greenish-yellow, feet green." 



10. Rynchops nigra cinerascens Spix. Black-tailed Skimmer. 



Rhynchops cinerascens Spix, Av. Bras, ii, p. 80, PI. cii, 1825 (Amazon River). 

 . La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, 9 February 15 (58,740). 

 "Legs and base of bill carmine." 



CHARADRIID^. 



11. Belonopterus cayennensis (Gmel.). Cayenne Lapwing. 



Parra cayennensis Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, ii, p. 706, 1789 (Cayenne). 

 La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, cf d' 9 c^ February 11 (58,734-7). 

 "Tip of bill and feet black." 

 Occurred in immense flocks on the Uracoa (S. B.). 



SOOLOPAOIDiE. 



12. Actitis macularia (Linn.). Spotted Sandpiper. 



Tringa macularia Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 249, 1766 (Pennsyl- 

 vania). 



Cariaquito, d' March 3 (58,731). 



13. GallinagO brasiliensis (Swains.). Brazilian Snipe. 



Scolopax Brasiliensis Swainson, Faun. Boreal. Am., p. 400, note 1831 (Brazil), 

 Cano Corosal, d' 9 February 25 (58,732-3). 



These birds have the first or outer secondaries longer than the 

 primary coverts and seem to belong to this species rather than to 

 G. paraguaice, which Bulepsch and Hartert record from the Orinoco 

 Region (Novit. Zool., IX, p. 130). 



JAOANID^. 



14. Jacana jacana (Linn.). Jacana. 



Parra Jacana Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 259, 1766 (South America). 



Cano Corosal,. 9 February 25 (58,719). 



La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, 9 February 15, cf cf cf February 11 

 (58,720-3). 



Common in the savanna country at La Pedrita on floating vege- 

 tation (S. B.). 



"Shield and base of bill deep carmine red." 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



EURYPYGID^. 



15. Eurypyga helias (.Pall.). Sun Bittern. 



Ardea helias Pallas, Neue Nord. Beytr., ii, p. 48, PL iii, 1781 (Surinam). 

 Guinipa River, 9 c^ 9 c^ January 31 (58,725-8). 

 Vagre River, d" January 29 (58,724). 



Occurred mostly on mud flats bordering the mangroves ; very tame 

 •(S. B.). 



"Iris carmine, lower mandible and legs yellow." 



IBIDID^. 



16. Guara rubra (Linn.). Scarlet Ibis. 



Scolopax rubra Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 145,1758 ("America" = 

 Guiana) . 



Isla Morocotico, Manimo River, March 3 (58,763). 



Isla Plata, Manimo River, March 4 (58,762, 58,791-5). 



"Legs and beak pinkish-white, iris grayish-stone." 



Very abundant on the Manimo, etc., ))ut not common above 



tidewater (S. B.). 



PLATALEID^. 



17. Ajaia ajaja (Linn.). Roseate Spoonbill. 



Platalta Ajaja Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 140, 1758 (South America). 

 Isla Plata, ]\Ianimo River, cT March 4 (58,761). 

 "Iris reddish, legs pink, beak flesh-colored." 



ARDBID^. 



18. Ardea COCOi Linn. Cocoi Heron. 



Ardea Cocoi Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 237, 1766 (Cayenne). 

 Cano Corosal, 9 February 27 (58,766). 



19. Butorides striata (Linn.). Black-crowned Heron. 



Ardea striata Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 238, 1766 (Surinam). 

 Manimo River, cf February 8 (58,729). 



20. Nyctinassa violacea (Linn.). Yellow-crowned Night Heron. 



Ardea violacea Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 143, 1758 (Carolina). 

 Corosal, d" February 27 (58,759). 



Cariaquito, 9 March 14, cf 9 January 22, 9 January 14 (58,755-8). 

 "Iris orange-yellow." 



21. Tigrisoma lineatum (Bodd.). Tiger Bittern. 



Ardea lineata Boddaert, Tabl. PI. Enl., p. 52, 1783 (Cayenne). 

 Guinipa River, cf & February 4 and January 31 (58,764-5). 

 "Iris yellow, feet and skin at base of beak greenish." 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



PALAMEDEID^. 



22. Anhima COrnuta (Linn.). Horned Screamer. 



Palamedea cornuta Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 2.32, 1766 (Brazil,.. 

 Guiana). 



Manimo River, d" February 20 (58,767). 



Very common on the upper Manimo in the tops of tall trees (S. B.). 



"Iris reddish-yellow." 



PHALAOROOORAOIDu3E. 



23. Fhalacrocoraz vigua (Vieill.). Brazilian Cormorant. 



Hydrocorax vigua Vieillot, N. Diet. I'Hist. Nat., viii, p. 90, 1817 (Paraguay). 

 Jacopita, Manimo River, cf February 23 (58,738). 

 "Iris white, skin on throat yellow." 



ANHINGID^. 



24. Anhinga anhinga (Linn.). Anhinga. 



Plotus anhinga Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 218, 1766 (South America).. 

 Cano Vagre, 9 January 28 (58,739). 



CATHARTID^. 



25. Sarcorhamphus papa (Linn.). King Vulture. 



Vultur Papa Linnajus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 86, 1758 ("in India occiden- 

 tali" = Brazil). 



Guinipa Village, 9 February 2 (58,751). 

 FALCONIDuSl. 



26. Circus buffoni (Gmel.). Long-winged Harrier. 



Falco Bujfoni Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 277, 1788 (Cayenne). 



La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, a" February 13 (58,692). 



"Cere and edge of gape greenish -blue, legs orange-yellow, iri.s 

 hazel." 



Hawks of all kind were most abundant in the savanna country 

 on the Uracoa (S. B.). 



27. Geranospizias caerulescens (Vieill.). Gray Crane-Hawk. 



Sparvius coerulescetis Vieillot, N. Diet. d'Hist. Nat., x, p. .318, 1817 (Soutb 

 America) . 



Manimo River, d" cf February 18 and March 3 (58,701-2). 

 "Iris carmine, cere black, lower mandible bluish, legs deep- 

 orange." 



28. Asturina nitida (Lath.). Shining Buzzard-Hawk. 



Falco nitida Latham, Ind. Orn., i, p. 41, 1790 (Cayenne). 

 Boco Uracoa, Manimo River, d" February 24 (58,698). 

 "Iris hazel, legs and cere yellow, beak blue." 




!1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



:29. Rupornis magnirostris (Gmel.). Large-billed Hawk. 



Falco magnirostris Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 282, 1788 (Cayenne). 

 Cariaquito, 9 9 January 14 and March 13 (58,699-700). 

 Pedernales, cf March 6 and 9 January 26 (58,696-7). 

 "Iris, cere, skin around eye, and legs yellow." 



:30. Busarellus nigricollis (Lath.). Black -collared Hawk. 



Falco nigricollis Latham, Ind. Orn., i, p. 35, 1790 (Cayenne). 

 La Pedrita, & & February 13 (58,749-50). 

 Cano Corosal, cf February 24 (58,745). 

 "Cere, skin at base of bill and feet light blue, iris hazel." 



31. Buteogallus aequinoctialis (Gmel.). Equinoctial Buzzard. 



Falco cequinoclialis Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 265, 1788 (Cayenne). 

 Pedernales, cf March 6 (58,748). 

 "Base of bill and skin around eye and feet yellow." 



32. TJrubitinga urubitinga (Gmel.). Brazilian Eagle. 



Falco Urubitinga .Gmelin, Syst. Nat., i, p. 265, 1788 (Brazil). 

 Cano Corosal, 9 February 28 (58,746). 

 "Iris hazel, legs, skin around the eyes and cere yellow." 



33. Urubitinga anthracina (Nitzsch). Mexican B!ack Hawk. 



Falco anthracinus Nitzsch, Syst. Pteryl., p. 83, 1840 (Mexico). 

 La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, (f February 13 (58,693). 

 Cariaquito, 9 February 14 (58,752). 

 "Iris brown, legs yellowish, cere greenish-yellow." 

 The former specimen is in the slaty black plumage, the latter in 

 the light striated stage. 



54. Leucopternus albicoUis (Lath.). White-collared Hawk. 



Falco albicolHs Latham, Ind. Orn., i, p. 36, 1790 (Cayenne). 

 Cariaquito, cf January 20 (58,753). 

 "Iris hazel, legs lemon-yellow." 



35. Herpetotheres cachinnans (Linn.). Laughing Hawk. 



Falco cachinnans Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 90, 1758 ("South 

 America ' ' = Cayenne) . 



Pedernales.. 9 March 6 (58,747). 



"Iris hazel, skin at base of bill yellow, legs yellow." 



36. Rostrhamus SOCiabilis (Vieill.). Everglade Kite. 



Herpetotheres sociabilis Vieillot, N. Diet. d'Hist. Nat., .xviii, 1817, 318 (Cor- 

 rientes and Rio de la Plata). 



Cano Corosal, cf Fel^ruary 24 (58,694). 



"Iris carmine, beak black, cere and skin around gape dull yellow, 



feet dull orange." 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



37. Leptodon uncinatUS (Temm.). Red-collared Kite. 



Falco uncinatUS Temminck, PI. Col., i, Pis. 103-105, 1824 (Rio Janeiro). 

 Cariaquito, 9 January 22 (58,689). 

 "Iris white, feet yellow, skin above the eye greenish-yellow." 



38. Elanus leucurus (Vieill.). White-tailed Kite. 



Milvus leucurus Vieillot, N. Diet. d'Hist. Nat., xx, p. 563, 1818 (Paraguay). 

 La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, cf d" February 15 and 13 (58,690-1). 

 "Iris brilliant carmine, legs yellow, bill black, cere and edges of 

 gape yellow." 



39. Falco COlumbariuS Linn. Pigeon Hawk. 



Falco columbarius Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, 1758, p. 90 (Carolina). 

 Cafio Corosal, 9 February 28 (58,695). 



BUBONID^. 



40. Pulsatrix perspicillata (Lath.). Spectacled Owl. 



Strix perspicillata Latham, Ind. Orn., i, p. 58, 1790 (Cayenne). 



Cariaquito, 9 March 13 (58,754). 



" Iris yellow. " 



PSITTACID^. 



41. Ara ararauna (Linn.). Blue-and-yellow Macaw. 



Psittacus Ararauna Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 96, 1758 ("South 

 America" = Brazil). 



Guinipa Village, February 2, c/" 9 (58,800-1). 



42. Aratinga aeruginoSUS (Linn.). Brown-throated Parrot. 



Psittacus oeruginosus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 98, 1758 ("'America' 

 = Cayenne). 



Corosal, d" 9 February 27 (58,314-5). 



43. Aratinga leucophthalmus (P. L. S. MuUer). White-eyed Parrot. 



Psittacus leucophthalmus P. L. S. Miiller, Syst. Nat., Suppl,, p. 75, 1776- 

 (Guiana) . 



Buelte Triste, Manimo River, d" 9 February 21 (58,312-3). 



"Iris reddish-yellow." 



44. Pyrrhura emma Salvad. Salvadori's Parrot. 



Pyrrhura emma Salvadori, Cat. Birds Brit. Mus., xx, p. 217, PI. i, 1891 



(Caripe). 



Cariaquito, d" d' March 10, cf March 15, 9 January 20, 9 

 March 18 (58,307-11). 

 "Iris yellow, legs black." 



45. Psittacula passerina (Linn.). Blue-winged Parakeet. 



Psittacus passerinus Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p, 103,^1758 ("America'* 

 = Guiana). 



Cafio Corosal, cT February 25 (58,316). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



46. Amazona amazonica (Linn.). Orange-winged Amazon. 



Psittacus amazonicus Linnseu-s, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 147, 17(36 (Suri- 

 nam). 



Isla Marocotico, Manimo River, cf March 3 (58,301). 



Pedernales, 9 January 25 (58,302) . 



Vagre River, 9 January 28 (58,303). 



' ' Iris yellowish-red. ' ' 



Immense flocks of Amazons went up the Manimo every evening 



to roost (S. B.). 



47. Amazona ochrocephala (Gmel.). Yellow-headed Amazon. 



Psittacus ochrocephalus Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 339, 178S ("South America" 

 = Colombia). 



Vagre River, cf January 29 (58,300). 



"Iris reddish-yellow." 



48. Pionus menstruus (Linn.). Red-vented Parrot. 



Psittacus menstruus Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 148, 176G (Surinam). 

 Cariaquito, cT 9 March 10 (58,304 and 58,306), d" March 15 



(58,305). 



"Iris drab." 



ALCEDINID^. 



49. Ceryle torquata (Linn.). Great Gray Kingfisher. 



Alcedo torquata Linnajus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 180, 1766 (Mexico). 

 Manimo River, cT February 9 (58,331), c?" 9 9 February 10 

 (58,328-30), cf February 28 (58,332). 

 "Legs greenish." 



50. Ceryle amazona (Lath.). Great Green Kingfisher. 



Alcedo aynazona Latham, Ind. Orn., i, p. 257, 1790 (Cayenne). 

 Manimo River, cT d^ February 10 and 19 (58,321-2). 

 La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, 9 February 17 (58,323). 

 Cano Corosal, 9 February 25 (58,324). 



51. Ceryle inda (Linn.). Spotted Kingfisher. 



Alcedo inda Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 179, 1766 ("India oeciden- 

 ■ tale " = Cayenne). 



Guinipa River, cf 9 February 3 (58,317-8). 



Vagre River, 9 9 February 29 (58,319-20). 



52. Ceryle americana (Gmel.). Little Green Kingfisher. 



Alcedo americana Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 4.51, 1788 (Cayenne). 

 Cariaquito, d' January 22 (58,326), 9 March 10 (58,325). 

 Boca Uracoa, Manimo River, cf^ no data. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



OAPRIMULGIDuE. 



53. Chordeiles acutipennis (Bodd.). South American Nighthawk. 



Caprimidgns acutipennis Boddaert, Tabl. PI. Enl., p. 46, 1783 ("Guiana" = 

 Cayenne). 



Cano Corosal , & & February 25 (58,336-7). 



54. Nyctiprogne leucopyga (Spix). White-winged Nighthawk. 



Caprimulgus leucopygus Spix, Av. Bras., II, p. 3, 1823 (Shores of Amazon). 

 Cano Corosal, cf February 27, 9 February 28 (58,334-5). 



55. Nyctidromus albicollis (Gmel.). Parauque. 



Caprimulgus albicollis Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, ii, p. 1030, 1789 (Cayenne). 

 La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, d^ February 10 (58,333). 



TROGONIDiE. 



56. Trogon viridis Linn. Green Trogon. 



Trogon viridis Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 167, 1766 (Cayenne). 

 Guinipa Village, d" 9 February 3 (58,338-9). 

 Guinipa River, cf February 4 (58,340). 

 Settlement on Vagre River, d^ January 29 (58,341). 



CUCULID^. 



57. Coccyzus pumilus Strickl. Dwarf Cuckoo. 



Coccyzus pumilus Strickland, Jard. Contr. Orn., 1852, p. 28 (Trinidad). 

 Corosal, d February 27 (58,346). 

 "Iris and eyelids carmine, legs greenish." 



58. Piaya cayana colombiana (Cab.). Colombian Chestnut Cuckoo. 



Pyrrhocorax colombiana Cabanis, Jour, fiir Orn., 1862, p. 170 (Cartagena). 

 Cariaquito, cf January 13 (58,344). 

 Guinipa River, cf January 30 (58,343) . 

 Isla Morocatico, d March 3 (58,345). 



59. Crotophaga ani Linn. Common Ani. 



Crotophaga Ani Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 105, 1758 ("America" = 

 Brazil). 



Cariaquito, cf January 17 (58,347). 



'60. Crotophaga major Gmel. Great Ani. 



Crotophaga major Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 363, 1788 (Cayenne). 

 Pedernales, d d January 25, 26 (58,348-9). 

 "Iris white or bluish-white." 



RAMPHASTID^. 

 61. Bamphastos monilis P. L. S. Muller. 



Ramphastos monilis P. L. S. Muller, Nat. Syst., Suppl., p. 82, 1776 (Cayenne). 

 Guinipa Village, d 9 February 2 (58,359-60). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



These birds seem from the appearance of the bills to be similar 

 to those upon which Berlepsch and Hartert have based R. hcEmato- 

 rhynchus (cf. Novitates Zoologicse, IX, p. 99, 1902). 



62. RamphastOS vitellinus Licht. Sulphur-and-white-breasted Toucan. 



Ramphastos vitellinus Lichtenstein, Verz. Doubl., p. 7, 1823 (Cayenne). 

 Caiio Vagre, 9 January 28 (58,361). 



"Iris bluish-white, legs, skin around the eye and base of bill beauti- 

 ful changeable blue." 



63. Pteroglossus aracari roraimae Brabourne and Chubb. Roraima Aracari. 



Pteroglossus roraimcB Brabourne and Chubb, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (8), 

 X, p. 261, 1912 (Roraima). 



Guinipa Village, c^ 9 February 3 (58,350-1). 

 Guinipa River, 9, January 31 (58,352). 

 Settlement on the Vagre River, 9 February 7 (58,353). 

 Cariaquito, cf 9 9 January 22 (58,354, 58,357-8), 9 March 10 

 (58,356), — January 16 (58,355). 

 "Iris hazel." 

 The commonest species of Toucan observed (S. B.). 



BUOOONID^. 



64. BUCCO dysoni Scl. Dyson's Puff-bird. 



Bucco dysoni Sclater, P. Z. S., p, 193, 1885 (Honduras). 

 Manimo River, 9 February 8 (58,369). 



66. Bucco bicinctus (Gould). Two-banded Puff-bird. 



Tamatia bicinda Gould, P. Z. S., p. 80, 1836 ("Cayenne" = Venezuela). 



Guinipa River, cf February 3 (58,372). 



Buelta Triste, Manimo River, cf February 20, 9 February 21 

 (58,371, 58,370). 



"Iris yellowish-white, legs greeni.sh-blue. " 



GALBULIDiE. 



66. Galbula ruficauda Cuv. Rufous-tailed Jacamar. 



Galbula ruficauda Cuvier, Regn. Anim., i, p. 420, 1817 (" Guiana " = Cay- 

 enne). 



Pedernales, 9 January 26 (58,362). 



Guinipa Village, cf cf February 2 (58,363, 58,365), cf d' February 3 

 (58,364, 58,366). 



Manimo River, cf cf February 9 (58,367-8). 

 "Feet greenish-yellow, beak black." 

 14 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



PIOID^. 



67. Chrysoptilus punotigula punotipectus Cab. and Hein. Spot-breasted Woodpecker. 



Chrysoptilus punctipectus Cabanis and Heine, Mus. Hein., iv, p. 163, 1863 

 (Venezuela) . 



Cano Corosal, cf February 25 (58,385). 



68- Centurus terricolor Berlepsch. Sombre Woodpecker. 



Centurus terricolor Berlepsch, Ibis, 1880, p. 113 (Orinoco district or Trinidad). 

 Cariaquito, d" 9 January 14 (58,381-2). 

 Guinipa Village, d" February 2 (58,384). 



69. Celeus elegans hellmayri Berlepsch. Hellmayr's Woodpecker. 



Celeus elegans hellmayri Berlepsch, Novitates Zoologicae, xv, p. 272, 1908 

 (British Guiana). 



Guinipa River, 9 January 31 (58,383). 



"Iris carmine, bill and legs bluish-horn color." 



70. Crocomorphus semicinnamoineus (Reichenb.). Yellow Woodpecker. 



Ceteris seinicinnamomeus ReichenhsLch, Scans. Picinae.p. 407, 1854 (Venezuela). 

 Cariaquito, 9 January 12 (58,376), 9 January 18 (58,377), 

 cf March 12 (58,378). 

 La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, 9 February 13 (58,375). 

 Buelta Triste, Manimo River, d February 20 (58,373). 

 Settlement, Vagre River, 9 February 28 (58,374). 

 ''Iris red, legs lead color, bill yellow." 



71. Campephilus melanoleuoos (Gmel.). Black-and-white Woodpecker. 



Picus melanoleuoos Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 426, 1788 (Surinam). 

 Peclernales, d January 26 (58,380). 

 One other cf without data. 

 "Iris yellow." 



72. Ceophloeus lineatus (Linn.). Lineated Woodpecker. 



Picus lineatus Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 174, 1766 (Cayenne). 

 Cariaquito, cf January 16 (58,379). 

 "Iris white, bill lead color." 



TROOHILID^. 



73. Glauois hirsuta (Gmel.). Hairy Hermit. 



Trochilus hirsutus Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 490, 1788 (Brazil). 

 Cariaquito, 9 March 16 (58,410). 



74. Campylopterus ensipennis (Sw.). Blue-throated Sabre-wing. 



Trochilus ensipennis Swainson, Zool. Illustr., ii, PI. 107, 1821-2 ("South 

 America " = Venezuela). 



Cariaquito, 9 January 14 (58,399). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



75. Florisuga mellivora (Linn.). Great Jacobin. 



Trochilus mellivorus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 121, 1758 ("India" = 

 Guiana). 



Cariaquito, 9 January 14 (.58,418), 9 March 16 (58,414), 9 cf 9 

 9 9 March 17 (58,415-19), cf" cf d^ March 17 (58,385-7), and 3 

 cf without data. 



76. Thalurania refulgens Gould. Refulgent Wood-nymph. 



Thalurania refulgens Gould, P. Z. S., 1852, p. 9 (" Unknown "= Venezuela). 



Cariaquito, d^ d" 9 January 16 (58,409, 58,413, 58,421), d March 15 

 (58,408), d March 18 (58,420). 



Isla de Morocatico, Manimo River, March 3 (58,404) and two 

 males without data. 



77. Colibri delphinae (Less.). Brown Violet-ear. 



Ornysmya Delphince Lesson, Rev. Zool., 1839, p. 44 ("loc. unknown " = 

 Guiana). 



Cariaquito, cf January 14 (58,412). 



78. Anthracothorax nigricoUis (Vieill.). Violet-tailed Mango. 



Trochilus nigricoUis Vieillot, N. Diet. d'Hist. Nat., vii, p. 349, 1817 (Brazil). 

 Guinipa Village, 5 cf February 2 and 3 (58,390-4). 

 Cariaquito, cf March 17 (58,389). 

 Jocopita, 9 9 February 23 (58,405-6). 



79. Anthracothorax gramineus (Gmel.). Green-throated Mango. 



Trochilus gramineus Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 488, 1788 ("no. loc" = Guiana). 

 Pedernales, d d January 27 (58,395-6) and one other without 

 data. 



80. Agyrtria chionopeotus (Gould). White-breasted Emerald. 



Thaumatias chionopectus Gould, Monogr. Trochil, v, PI. 293 (1859) 

 (Trinidad). 



Guinipa Village, d February 2 (58,429). 

 Pedernales, d January 27 (58,431). 



81. Agyrtria fimbriata (Gmel.). Lesson's Emerald. 



Trochilus fimbriatus Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 493, 1788 (Cayenne). 

 Boco Uracoa, Manimo River, cf February 10 (58,426). 

 Buelta Triste, Manimo River, cf February 20 (58,432). 

 Jocopita, Manimo River, cf cf February 22 and 23 (58,427-8). 

 Cafio Corosal, 9 cf February 25 and 28 (58,402-3). 



82. Saucerottea erythronota feliciae (Less.). Felicia's Erythronote. 



Ornysmya Felicire Lesson, Rev. Zool. 1840, p. 72 (San Jose dist. Brazil). 

 Cariaquito, 9 January 14 (58,425), cf 9 January 16 (58,433, 

 58,436). & January 18 (58,424), d cf March 13 and 16 (58,401, 

 58,434). Three without data. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



83. Hylocharis cyanus viridiventris Berlepsch. Green-vented Sapphire. 



Hylocharis cyanea subsp. viridiventris Berlepsch, Ibis., 1880, p. 113 (Merida, 

 Venezuela). 



Cariaquito, o" March 17 (58,435). 



84. Chrysuronia oenone (Less.). Lesson's Sapphire. 



Ornysmya oenone Lesson, Hist. Nat. Ois.-Mouches, Suppl., p. 157, 1832 

 (Trinidad). 



Cariaquito, cf d^ March 10 (58,397-8). 



85. Chlorestes notatus (Reich.). Blue-ehianed Sapphire. 



Trochilus notatus Reichenbach, Mag. des Thierreichs (Erlange), i, Abth. 3, 

 p. 129, 1795 (Cayenne). 



Cariaquito, 9 9 January 14 (58,422-3), d^ c^ March 13 and 17 

 (58,437,58,400). 



Guinipa Village, cT February 2 (58,430) and two males without 

 data. 



86. Anthoscenus superba (Shaw). Long-billed Star-throat. 



Trochilus superbus Shaw, Nat. Misc. xiii, PI. 517, 1802 ("South America" = 

 Colombia). 



Cariaquito, d' juv. March 10 (58,411). 



FORMIC ARIID^. 



87. Thamnophilus punctatus (Shaw), Choca. 



Lanius punctatus Shaw, Gen. Zool., vii, pt. 2, p. 327 (Cayenne). 

 Cariaquito, 9 cf March 13 (58,451-2). 



88. Thamnophilus canadensis (Linn.). Black -crested Bush-Shrike. 



Lanius canadensis Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 134, 1766 ("Canada" 



= Cayenne). 



Cariaquito, cf January 25 (58,450). 



Settlement on Vagre River, cf January 28 (58,449). 



Jocopita, Manimo River, cf February 22 (58,448). 



89. Microrhopias grisea intermedia (Cab.). AlUed Ant-Wren. 



Formicivora intermedia Cabanis, Arch. f. Naturg., 13, I, p. 225, 1847 (Car- 

 thagena, Aragua, Venezuela). 



Cariaquito, 9 January 18 (58,456), cf 9 March 13 (58.453, 58,457). 



90. Sclateria nsevia (Gm.). Surinam Ant-Creeper. 



Sitta noevia GmeUn, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 442, 1788 (Surinam). 

 Cano Vagre, d" 9 Januar;^ 29 (58,454-5). 



DENDROCOLAPTID^. 



91. Acrorchilus alopecias (Pelzeln). Northern Rusty-backed Spinetail. 



Synallaxis alopecias Pelzeln, Sitzungsb. Ak. Wissensch. Wien, xxxiv, p. 101, 

 1859 (Rio Branco, Brazil). 



Manimo River, cf cT 9 February 9 (58,461-3). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



92. Synallaxis albescens albigularis Scl. Sclater's Spine-tail. 

 Synallaxis albigularis Sclater, P. Z. S., 1858, p. 63 (Rio Napo). 



Jocopita, Manimo River, cf February 23 (58,465). 

 Cano Corosal, & juv. February 27 (58,464). 



93. Synallaxis oinnamomea (Gm.). Yellow-throated Spine-tail. 



Certhia cinnamomea Gmelin, Syst, Nat., I, i, p. 480, 1788 ("no loc. " = Guiana). 

 Boca Uracoa, Manimo River, 9 9 February 10 (58,466-7). 



94. Dendrocincla meruloides phaeochroa Berl. and Hart. Munduapo Wood-hewer. 



Dendrocincla phceochroa Berlepsch and Hartert, Nov. Zool., ix, p. 67,''1902 

 (Munduapo, Rio Orinoco). 



Cariaquito, 9 January 14 (58,459). 



95. Dendroplex picirostris I.afr. White-throated Wood-hewer. 



Dendroplex picirostris Lafresnaye, Rev. Zool., 1847, p. 76 (Rio Hacha 

 Colombia). 



Jocopita, Manimo River, d^ February 22 (58,460). 



96. Pioolaptes albolineatUS (Lafr.). Fulvous-throated Wood-hewer. 



Dendroplex albolineatus Lafresnaye, Rev. Zool., 1846, p. 208 (Colombia). 

 Cariaquito, 9 January 18 (58,458). 



TYRANNID-Sl. 



97. FluVicola pica (Bodd.). White-shouldered Water Tyrant. 



Muscicapa pica Boddaert, Tabl. d. PI. Enl., p. 42, 1783 (Cayenne). 

 Manimo River, cf d" February 9 (58,511-2). 



98. Arundinicola leucocephala (Linn.). White-headed Marsh Tyrant. 



Pipra leucocephala Linna?us, Mus. Ad. Frid., ii, prodr., p. 33, 1764 ("no 

 loc." = Surinam). 



Buelta Triste, Manimo River, cf February 20 (58,509). 



Boca Uracoa, Manimo River, cf February 10 (58,510). 



99. Maohetornis flavigularis Todd. Yellow-throated Tyrant. 



Machetornis flavigidaris Todd, Ann. Carnegie Mus., viii, p. 210, 1912 

 (Tocuyo, Venezuela). 



Caiio Corosal, cf 9 cf February 25 (58,487-9). 



100. Craspedoprion olivaceas guianensis (McConnell). Guiana Flat-bill. 

 Rhynchocyclus oliiaceus guianensis McConnell, Bull. B. O. C, x.xvii, p. 



106, 1911 (British Guiana). 



Cariaquito, cf January 21 (58,502). 



101. Mionectes oleagineus pallidiventris Hellmayr. Pallid Oily Flycatcher. 



Mionectes oleagineus pallidiventris Hellmayr, Nov. Zool., xiii, p. 22, 1906 

 (Cumana). 



Cariaquito, 9 January 19, cf March 15 (58,468-9). 



102. Elaenea Sp. ? 



Jocopita, Manimo River, cf February 22 (58,507). 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



103. Elaenea flavogaster (Thunberg). Yellow-vented Crested Flycatcher. 



Pipra flavogaster Thunberg, Mem. Acad. St. Petersburg, viii, p. 286, 1822 

 ("no loc." = Brazil). 



. Cariaquito, d^ March 17 (58,495). 

 Corosal, & February 27 (58,494). 



104. Elaenea gaimardii (d'Orb.). Gaimard's Crested Flycatcher. 



Muscicapara Gaimardii d'Orbigny, Voyage (1838-47), p. 326 (Yuracares, 

 Bolivia). 



Cariaquito, cf January 14 (58,503). 



This is probably referable to the subspecies guianensis, but I have 

 not material to settle this point with certainty. 



Mr, Ridgway has established the genus Elainopsis for this species 

 and has referred it to the Cotingidce. 



105. Myiozetetes Similis COlumbianuS Cab. and Hein. Colombian Flycatcher. 



Myiozetetes columbianus Cabanis and Heine, Mus. Hein., ii, 1859, p. 62 

 (Pto. Cabello, Cartagena). 



Cariaquito, 9 9 9 January 13, 21, 20 (58,499-501). 



106. Pitangus derbyanus rufipennis (Lafr.). Rufous-winged Flycatcher. 



Saurophagus rufipennis Lafresnaye, Rev. Zool., 1851, p. 471 (Colombia and 

 Caracas). 



Guinipa Village, cf February 3 (58,486) and another without data, 

 probably from the same locality. 



107. Pitangus lictor (Licht.). Lichtenstein's Flycatcher. 



Lanius lictor Lichtenstein, Verz. Doubl., p. 49, 1823 (Para). 

 Manimo River, 9 February 8 (58,496). 

 Guinipa River, a" 9 January 31 (58,497-8). 



108. Myiodynastes maculatus (P. L. S. Mull.). Streaked Flycatcher. 



Muscicapa Maculata P. L. S. Miiller, Syst. Nat., Suppl., p. 169, 1776 

 (Cayenne). 



Cariaquito, cf cf January 18 and March 10 (58,490-1). 



109. Rhynchocyclus sulphurescens assimilis Pelz. Pelzeln's Flat-bill. 

 Rhynchocyclus assimilis Pelzeln, Orn. Bras., p. 181, 1869 (Rio Negro, N. 



Brazil) [nomen nudum at p. 110]. 



Cariaquita, 9 March 15 (58,504). 

 Jocopita, 9 February 22 (58,506). 



110. Todirostrum cinereum (Linn.). Black-crowned Tody-Tyrant. 



Todus cinereus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 178, 1766 (Surinam). 

 Cariaquito, d" January 17 (58,515), cf March 15 (58,516), 9 

 March 14 (58,517). 



Pederuales, cf January 27 (58,519). 



Buelta Triste, Manimo River, d' 9 February 20 (58,518, 585,13). 



Jocopita, Manimo River, cf February 23 (58,514). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



111. Todirostrum maculatum (Desm.). Spotted Tody-Tyrant. 



Todus macidatus Desmarest, Hist. Nat. Tangaras, etc., PI. 70, 1805 (Guiana). 

 Pedernales, cf 9 January 25 and 26 (58,521 and 58,520). 



112 Colopteryx galeatus (Bodd.). Helmeted Pygmy Flycatcher. 



Motacilla galcata Boddaert, Tabl. PI. Enl., p. 24, 1783 (Cayenne). 



Jocopita, Manimo River, cf February 22 (58,522). 



Also a young bird in first plumage (58,523) from Cariaquito, Janu- 

 ary 14. 



113. Megarhynclius pitangua (Linn.). Pitangua Flycatcher. 



Lmiius Pitangua Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 136, 1766 (Brazil). 

 Cariaquito, d^ March 17 (58,485), 9 January 20 (58,484). 



114. Myiarchus ferox venezuelensis Lawr. Venezuelan Crested Flycatcher. 



Myiarchus venezuelensis Lawrence, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 38 

 (Venezuela). 



Boco Uracoa, Manimo River, cf February 10 (58,479). 



Jocopita, Manimo River, 9 February 22 (58,480). 



115. Tyrannus melancholicus satrapa (Cab. and Heine). Lesser Yellow-breasted Kingbird. 

 Laphyctes satrapa Cabanis and Heine, Mus. Hein. ii, p. 77, 1859 (Guiana: 



Caracas) . 



Pedernales, 9 January 26 (58,481). 



Cariaquito, 9 9 January 21 and March 13 (58,482-3). 



116. Tyrannus dominicensis (Gmel.). Gray Kingbird. 



Lanius dominicensis Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 302, 1788 (Santo Domingo). 



La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, cT February 15 (58.493), 9 February 17 

 (58,492). 



117. Muscivora tyrannus (Linn.). Fork-tailed Flycatcher. 



Mitscicapa tyrannus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 325, 1766 (Cayenne). 

 Boca Uracoa, cf 9 9 February 10 (58,476-8). 

 La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, cf February 11 (58,475). 



COTINGID^. 



118. Tityra Cayana (Linn.). Cayenne Tityra, 



Lanius cayanus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 137, 1766 (Cayenne). 

 Cariaquito, cf March 16 (58,526). 



119. Pachyrhamphus rufus (Bodd.). Cinereous Thick-bill. 



Muscicapa ruja Boddaert, Tabl. PI. Enl., p. 27, 1783 (Cayenne). 

 Manimo River, cf February 20 (58,527). 



120. Pachyrhamplius cinereiventris Scl. Gray-belUed Thick-bill. 



Pachyrhamphus cinereiventris Sclater, Cat. Amer. Birds, p. 242, 1862 (Santa 

 Martha). 



Guinipa Village, cf February 3 (58,505). 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



PIPRIDJB. 



121. Chiroxiphia lanceolata (Wagler). Lance-tailed Manakin. 



Pi-pra lanceolata Wagler, Isis, 1830, p. 931 ("Guiana" = Colombia), 

 Cariaquito, 9 January 18 (58,524), cr' juv. March 13 (58,525) and 

 an adult male without data. 



HIRUNDINID^. 



122. Progne chalybea (Gmel.)- Gray-breasted Martin. 



Hirundo chalybea Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, ii, p. 1026, 1789 (Cayenne). 

 Cano Corosal, 9 February 26 (58,530). 



123. Iridoprocne albiventer (Bodd.). White-bellied Tree Swallow. 



Hirundo albiventer Boddaert, Tabl. PI. Enl., p. 32, 1783 (Cayenne). 

 Guinipa River, cf February 5 (58,532). 

 Pedernales, 9 January 26 (58,531). 



124. Stelgidopteryx ruflcoUis aequalis Bangs. Bangs' Rough-winged Swallow. 



Stelgidopteryx ruficollis oequalis Bangs, Proc. N. E. Zool. Club, ii, p. 58, 1901 



(Santa Marta). 



Manimo River, 9 d" February 9 (58,528-9). 

 TROGLODYTID^. 



125. Heleodytes nuchalis (Cab.). Fulvous-naped Cactus-Wren. 



Campylorhynchus nuchalis Cabanis, Arch, fiir Naturg. i, p. 206, 1847 

 (Venezuela) . 



Buelta Triste, Manimo River, cf cf February 20 (58,438-9). 

 Boca Uracoa, Manimo River, cf February 18 (58,440). 

 Manimo River, 9 February 9 (58,441). 

 "Iris white, legs and upper mandible blue, lower white." 



126. Heleodytes minor Cab. Lesser Cactus Wren. 



Heleodytes minor Cabanis, Mus. Hein., i, p. 80, 1850 (Venezuela). 

 Guinipa Village, 9 February 3 (58,533). 



127. ThryopMlus rufalbus castanonotus Ridgw. Chestnut-backed Wren. 



Thryophilus rufalbus castanonotus Ridgway, Proc. Best. Soc. X. H., xxiii, 

 March, p. 386, 1888 (Angostura, Costa Rica). 



Cariaquito, January 17 (58,537), d" January 20 (58,538), d 



March 15 (58,534). 



"Feet light lead color, lower mandible bluish-white." 



128. Thryothorus rutilus Vieill. Bar-throated Wren. 



Thryothorus rutilus Vieillot, N. Diet. d'Hist. Nat., xxxiv, p. 55, 1819 

 (Trinidad). 



Cariaquito, d January 17 (58,768). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



129. Troglodytes musculus Clarus Berlepsch and Hartert. Venezuelan House-Wren. 



Troglodytes musculus- clarus Berlepsch and Hartert, Nov. Zool., ix, p. 8, 1902 

 (Bartica Grove, British Guiana). 



Cariaquito, d" January 19 (58,536), d" March 17 (58,535). 

 MIMID^. 



130. MimuS gilvus melanopterus Lawr. Black-winged Mockingbird. 



Mimus melanopterus Lawrence, Ann. Lye. N. Y., v, p. 35, 1849 (Venezuela). 

 La Pedrita, Rio de Uracoa, February 17 (58,539). 

 Cano Coro.sal, cT cf 9 February 28 (58,540-2). 



131. Donacobius atricapillus fLinn.). Black-capped Mocking Thrush. 



T Urdus atricapilla Linnajus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 295, 1766 ("Cape of 

 Good Hope " = Brazil). 



Manimo River, d" cf 9 February 9 (58,442-4). 



La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, 9 February 14 (58,445). 



Guinipa Village, 9 9 February 3 (58,446-7). 



"Iris and skin on sides of neck yellow, bill and inside of mouth 



black, legs grayish horn color." 



TURDID^. 



132. Planesticus phaeopygUS phaeopygoides (Seebohm). Tobago White-throated Thrush. 



Turdus phceopygoides Seebohm, Cat Birds, Brit. AIus., v, p. 404, 1881 

 (Tobago). 



Cariaquito, d cf March 10 and January 21 (58,543-4). 



VIREONID^. 



133. Vireo chivi (Vieill.). Chivi Vireo. 



Sylvia chivi Vieillot, N. Diet. d'Hist. Nat., xi, p. 174, 1817 (Paraguay). 

 Cariaquito, cf cf March 15 and 12 (58,545-6). 



134. Pachysylvia aurantiifrons saturata Hellmayr. Venezuelan Golden-fronted Warbler. 



Pachysylvia aurantiifrons saturata Hellmayr, Nov. Zool., xiii, p. 322 (Rio 

 Vaupe). 



Cariaquito, 9 January 14 (58,472), d d 9 January 20 (58,471, 



3 and 4), d March 16 (58,470). 



135. Cyclorhis gujanensis flavipectUS Sclater. Guiana Greenlet Shrike. 



Cyclorhis flavi pectus Sclater, P. Z. S., 1858, p. 448 (Trinidad). 

 Cariaquito, d March 17 (58,547). 

 Pedernales, 9 January 25 (58,549). 

 Jocopita, Manimo River, 9 February 23 (58,550). 

 Boco Uracoa, Manimo River, cf February 10 (58,548). 

 "Iris yellow, feet light bluish." 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



MNIOTILTID^. 



136. Compsothlypis pitiayumi elegans Todd. Elegant Warbler. 



Compsothlypis pitiayumi elegans Todd, Ann. Carnegie Mus., viii, No. 2, 

 p. 204, 1912 (Lara, N. W. Venezeula). 



Cariaquito, d' March 10 (58,553), 9 January 21 (58,554). 



137. Dendroica sestiva (Gmel.). Yellow Warble:. 



Motacilla cestiua Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, ii, p. 996, 1789 (Canada). 

 Cauo Corosal, d" d" February 25 and 27 (58,551-2). 



138. Seiurus noveboracensis (Gmel.). Small-billed Water-Thrush. 



Motacilla noveboracensis Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, ii, p. 958, 1789 (Louisiana and 

 New York). 



Cariaquito, 9 9 January 20 and 18 (58,555-6). 



139. GeotMypis aequinoctialis (Gmel.). Equinoctial Warbler. 



Motacilla aquinoctialis Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, ii, p. 972, 1789 (Cayenne). 

 Manimo River, cf February 20 (58,558). 



140. Basileuterus auricapillus olivascens Chapm. Chapman'-s Warbler. 



Basileuteriis vermioorus olivascens Chapman, Auk., 1893, p. 313 (Princestown, 

 Trinidad). 



Cariaquito, cf March 13 (58,557). 



MOTAOILLID^. 



141. Anthus lutescens Pucher. Rufous Pipit. 



Anthus lutescens Pucheran, Archiv. du. Mus., vii, p. 343, 1855 (Brazil). 

 La Pedrita Uracoa, o^ 9 February 17 (58,560-1). 

 While known from Guiana, I do not find this species previously 

 recorded from Venezuela. 



FRINGILIilD^. 



142. Sporophila americana (Gmel.). GmeUn's Seed-eater. 



Loxia americana Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, ii, p. 863, 1789 ("America " = Cayenne) . 

 Pedernales, cf January 25 (58,572). 

 Cano Corosal, 9 February 28 (58,574). 

 This is another species apparently not recorded from Venezuela. 



143. Sporophila grisea (Gmel.). Gray Seed-eater. 



Loxia grisea Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, ii, p. 857, 1789 (" Virginia " = Guiana). 

 Cano Corosal, cf February 25 (58,573). 



144. Sporophila minuta (Linn.) Pygmy Seed-eater.. 



Loxia minuta Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 176, 1758 (Surinam). 

 Pedernales, d" d" d" January 26 and 27 (58,569-71). 



145. Volatinia jacarini splendens (Vieill.). Jacarini Grassquit. 



Fringilla splendens Vieillot, N. Diet. d'Hist. Nat., xii, p. 173, 1817 

 (Cayenne) . 



Cariaquito, d" 9 January 21 and 19 (58,568 and 58,565). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



146. Saltator olivascens Cab. Gray-breasted Saltator. 



Saltator oUvascens Cabanis, in Schomb. Reis. Guian., iii, p. 676, 1848 (Guiana). 

 Guinipa Village, cT 9 February 2 (58,625-6). 

 La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, cf d" February 13 (58,627 and 58,635). 



147. Sicalis colombiana Cab. Venezuelan Yellow-finch. 



Sycalis columbiana Cabanis, Mus. Hein., i, p. 147, 1851 (Porto Cabello). 

 La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, d" 9 February 13 (58,578 and 58,564). 

 Caiio Corosal, cf February 28 (58,576). 



148. Serinopsis arvensis minor (Cab.). Little Yellow Finch. 



Sycalis minor Cabanis, in Schomb. Reis. Guian., iii, p. 679, 1848 (British 

 Guiana) . 

 Cano Corosal, d" 9 February 27 (58,575 and 58,577). 



149. Myospiza manimbe (Licht.). South American Grasshopper Sparrow. 



Fringilla Manimbe Lichtenstein, Verz. Doubl., p. 25, 1823 (Bahia). 

 La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, 9 & February 17 (58,562-3). 



150. Paroaria nigrogenis (Lafr.). Black-faced Cardinal. 



Nemosia nigrogenis Lafresnaye, Rev. Zool., 1846, p. 273 (Orinoco region). 

 La Pedrita, Rio Uracoa, d February 13 (58,579). 

 Manimo River, cT February 10 (58,580). 

 Jocopita, Manimo River, 9 February 23 (58,581). 

 Cano Corosal, d juv. February 28 (58,.582), 



CCEREBID^. 



151. Coereba luteola fCab.). Venezuela Flower-pecker. 



Certhioln luteola Cabanis, Mus. Hein., i, p. 96, 1851 (Puerto Cabello). 

 Cariaquito, 9 January 21, cf January 18, cf January 14 

 (58,603-5). 



Isla de Morocotico, Manimo River, 9 March 3 (58,601). 

 Jocopita, Manimo River, cf February 23 (58,602). 



152. Dacnis cayana (Linn.). Turquois Honey-creeper. 



MotaciUa cayana Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 336, 1766 (Cayenne). 

 Cariaquito, c^ 9 9 January 14 (58,607, 58,598-9), & January 20 

 (58,608), & March 17 (58,606) also a male without data. 

 "Iris hazel, feet flesh color." 



153. Cyanerpes cyaneus (Linn.). Blue Honey-creeper. 



MotaciUa cyanea Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 188, 1766 (Brazil and 

 Cayenne) . 



Cariaquito, 7 d March 10 (58,583-9). 



Pedernales, d 9 March 6 (58,590). 



^'Legs carmine, bill black." 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April,. 



154. Cyanerpes oaeruleus (Linn.). Purple Honey-creeper. 



Certhia cceruleus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 118, 1758 (Surinam). 

 Cariaquito, cf January 13 (58,591), 9 January 14 (58,594) 

 9 March 10 (58,592), also three without data. 

 "Feet clear lemon-yellow." 



165. Chlorophanes spiza (Linn.) Green Honey-creeper. 



Motacilla Spiza Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 188, 1758 (Surinam). 

 Cariaquito, d' & & 9 January 13 (58,597, 58,610-12), 9 d' cf 

 January 14 (58,595, 58,613-14), juv. cf January 16 (58,593), cf' 

 January 18 (58,596), 9 January 21 (58,609). 



TANGARID^. 



156. Tanagra trinitatis (Strickl.). Yellow-capped Euphonia. 



Euphonia trinitatis Strickland, Contr. Orn., 1851, p. 72 (Trinidad). 

 Cariaquito, 9 January 18, 9 January 14, cf January 16, cf' 

 January 13 (58,566-7, 58,649-50), and two without data. ' 



157. Tangara desmarestii (Gray). Red-headed Calliste. 



Calliste Desmarestii Gray, Gen. Bds., ii, p. 366, 1844 (Trinidad). 

 Cariaquito, c^ 9 March 10 and 12 (58,648, 58,647). 



158. Thraupis episcopus SClateri (Berlepsch). Trinidad Blue-gray Tanager. 



Tanagra sclateri Berlepsch, Il?is., 1880, p. 112 (Orinoco Dist. or Trinidad). 

 Cariaquito, cf cf January 16, c/" January 19 (58,620-2). 

 Guinipa Village, cf 9 February 3 (58,623-4). 



159. Thraupis palmarum melanoptera (Scl.;. Western Palm Tanager. 

 Tanagra melanoptera Sclater, P. Z. S., 1856, p. 235 (E. Peru). 



Cariaquito, cf 9 9 9 January 14 (58,615-8), cf January 1(> 

 (58,619). 



160. Eamphocelus carbo (Pall.). Silver-beaked Tanager. 



Lanius Carbo Pallas, Vroeg's Catal. Rais. Adumbrat., p. 2, 1764 (Surinam). 

 Cariaquito, 9 January 16, 9 January 14 (58,645-6). 

 Peclernales, d^ 9 January 26 (58,636, 58,644). 

 Buelte Trlste, Manimo River, d' cT 9 February 20 (58,639-41). 

 Guinipa Village, cT c^ February 2 (58,637-8), 9 9 February 2 

 and 3 (58,642-3). 



" Lower mandible pearly-white, black at tip." 



161. Tachyphonus rufus (Bodd.). Greater White-shouldered Tanager. 

 Tanagra rufa Boddaert, Tabl. PI. Enl., p. 44, 1783 (Cayenne). 



Cariaquito, d^ January 20, cf January 14, cf 9 January 19 

 (58,629-31,58,634). 

 Jocopita, Manimo River, d February 22 (58,632), 

 Guinipa Village, d February 3 (58,628). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



.162. Tachyphonus surinamus (Linn.). Fulvous-crested Tanager. 



Turdiis surinamus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 297, 1766 (Surinam). 

 Vagre River, cf January 29 (58,633). 

 lOTERID^. 



163. Ostinops decumanus (Pall.). Great Crested Cacique. 



Xanthornus decumanus Pallas, Spic. Zool., fasc. vi, p. 1, 1769 (Surinam). 

 Cariaquito, 9 cf January 14, cf cf 9 January 16 (58,682-4, 

 58,798-9). 



''Iris blue, legs black, bill greenish-yellow." 



164. Ostinops viridis (P. L. S. Mull). Great Green Cacique. 



Oriolus Viridis P. L. S. Muller, Syst. Nat. Suppl., p. 87, 1776 (Cayenne). 



Settlement on Vagre River, 9 January 28, 9 9 February 7 

 <58,678-80). 



Isla Morocotico, Manimo River, 9 March 3 (58,681). 



Found nesting only on the Vagre (S. B.). 



"Iris blue, skin around eye and base of beak yellow, terminal 

 part of beak deep orange." 



165. Cacicus Cela (Linn.). Yellow-backed Cacique. 



Parus Cela Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 191, 1758 (" India" = Guiana). 

 Cariaquito, cf cf cf d^ 9 January 14, cf January 18 (58,686-9, 

 58,796-7), and one without data. 

 "Bill greenish-horn color, legs black, iris pale bluish-white." 



166. Agelaius icterocephalus (Linn.). Yellow-headed Marsh-bird. 



Oriolus icterocephalus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 163, 1766 (Cayenne). 

 La Pedrita de Uracoa, cf cf 9 February 13 (58,664-6). 

 Found only on the savannas at La Pedrita (S. B.). 



167. Leistes militaris (Linn.). Red-breasted Marsh-bird. 



Embcriza militaris Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 178, 1758 (Guiana). 

 La Pedrita, Rio de Uracoa, cf cf 9 February 11 (58,667-8, 

 58,671), d^ 9 February 17 (58,669-70). 



Cano de Corosal, cf juv. February 28 (58,672). 

 Found only in the savannas (S. B.). 



168. Gymnomystax mexioanus (Linn.). Black-and-yellow Oriole. 



Oriolus mexicanus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 162, 1766 ("Mexico" 

 = Cayenne). 



Corosal, cf cf February 27 (58,651-2). 

 "Feet, bill and skin round the eye black." 



169. Icterus auricapillus Cassin. Golden-crowned Oriole. 



Icterus auricapillus Cassin, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1847, p. 332 ("South 

 America " = Colombia) . 



Cariaquito, 9 9 January 14 and 9 January 21 (58,659-61). 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



170. Icterus chrysocephalus (Linn.). Moriche Oriole. 



Oriolus chrysocephalus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, i, p. 164, 1766 (America) - 

 Guinipa River, 9 9 January 31 and February 2 (58,662-3). 



171. Icterus xanthornus (Gmel.). Yellow Oriole. 



Oriolus Xanthornus Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, i, p. 391, 1788 ("Jamaica and 

 Nov. Hisp . " = Venezuela) . 



Cariaquito, cf January 16 (58,658), 9 March 12 (58,657). 



Buelta Triste, c^ February 20 (58,655). 



Cano de Corosal, 9 cf cT' February 25 (58,653-4, 58,656). 



172. Lampropsar tanagrinus guianensis Cab. Guiana Grackle. 



Lampropsar guianensis Cabanis, in Schomb. Reis. Guiana, iii, p. 682, 1848 

 (Guiana). 



Cano de Vagre, d' January 29 (58,673). 



Guinipa River, 9 9 February (58,674-5). 



173. Holoquiscalus lugubris (Sw.). Swainson's Grackle. 



QuiscnlK.s Iiiguhris Swainson, Anim. in Menag., p. 299, 1838 ("Brazil"' 

 = British Guiana). 



Boca Uracoa, Manimo River, cf February 18 (58,677). 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



NOTES ON SERPENTS IN THE FAMILY COLUBRID^. 



BY JOSEPH C. THOMPSON, SURGEON, U. S. N. 



It is a curious fact that during the last two decades one of the 

 rarest things in the literature dealing with serpents is a detailed 

 account of an individual specimen. Reference is not made to 

 original descriptions of a type, as the majority of these are full and 

 satisfactory, but anything like the records left by Dumeril and Bibron 

 or by Cope of a particular specimen are now made by few authors. 

 The need for them is a very real one, both to students of zoogeography 

 in their efforts to outline the distribution of allied forms, and to those 

 engaged in the gathering of data relating to the range of variation 

 exhibited by a given species. 

 Trirhinopholis styani Boulenger. 



No. 26,786 Cal. Ac. Sci. Coll. Rev. C. Barlow. Waung Wan 

 Shan, Chekiang Province, China. Male; total length 205, tail 

 29 mm. 



Squamation. — Scales in 15 rows, continuous throughout the body, 

 smooth, without pits, those in the outer series rounded behind and 

 twice as wide as those in the dorsal series, Gastrosteges 118, ' 

 abnormally broad. Anal entire. Urosteges 27 pairs. Nasal 

 divided, entirely surrounding the nostril. Loreal absent. Pre- 

 ocular 1. Postoculars 2. Anterior temporals 2, the lower not in 

 contact with the postoculars; posterior 2. Supralabials 6, the third 

 and fourth entering the eye. Infralabials on the right side 5, the 

 normal fourth and fifth fused and with an incisure from the upper 

 border; on the left side 6, the first pair widely separated bj' the mental 

 which is in contact with the chin-shields. Geneials in two pairs, 

 anterior the larger and touching three labials, the posterior touch the 

 third and fourth. 



Anatomy. — Maxillary with 20 small, equal teeth. Palatine with 

 10 teeth. Pterygoid with 22 teeth, only a trifle smaller than those 

 on the maxillary. Dentary with 20 equal teeth, the posterior third 

 of the bone is free, as in Polyodontophis. Hypophyses present 

 throughout the vertebral column. Eye 2 mm. in diameter and 1 mm. 

 distant from the mouth. Rudimentary lung present. Apex of the 

 heart at the 23d gastrostege, in terms of body vertebrae this is 19.5% 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



down the column. Liver extending from the 31st to the 65th gas- 

 trostege. Head flat and pointed. Body vertically compressed 

 throughout; just behind the heart it is 5.5 mm. deep and 8 mm. 

 broad. Tail short, flat, and pointed. 



Habitat. — Heretofore known only by the two type specimens which 

 were captured in Fokien Province, China. 



Oxyrhabdium modestum (Dumeril and Bibron). 



No. 15,235 Cal. Ac. Sci. Philippine Islands. Female; total 

 length 216, tail 42 mm. 



Squamation. — Scales in 15 continuous rows, smooth, without 

 apical pits, broader than long; outer row slightly enlarged and 

 rounded behind. Gastrosteges 163. Anal entire. Urosteges 62 

 pairs. Rostral 1.1 mm. deep, 1 mm. wide; portion visible from 

 above strongly concave and with the borders raised well above the 

 level of the surrounding shields; below it is deeply incised. Nasals 

 divided, the posterior the larger and with raised edges. Internasals 

 .8 mm. long and .6 mm. broad, mutual suture one-third the length 

 of that between the prefrontals. Frontal 3.3 mm. long, 2.5 mm. 

 wide, 2.8 mm. distant from the rostral; facet for supraocular concave. 

 Parietals 3.3 mm. long, 2.5 broad; narrowed behind. Loreal 2.2 mm. 

 long, .8 mm. broad, anterior border in line with the suture between 

 the second and third labial; behind an acute angle between the 

 preocular and the fifth labial. Preocular 1, on each side, .8 mm. 

 long, 1.1 deep. Postoculars 2; superior the wider; inferior narrow 

 and excluding the seventh labial from entering the eye. Temporals 

 anterior 1, twice as wide as broad, inclined downward and forward; 

 posterior 2. Supralabials 8, the fifth and sixth entering the eye; 

 the anterior four are very small, the first one-half the size of the 

 second, the second, third and fourth equal, the eighth the largest 

 being 2.7 mm. long. Mental ver}^ short, rounded behind. Infra- 

 labials right 8, left 9, the additional shield due to the division of the 

 sixth, the fifth the largest. Geneials a single pair, 2.6 mm. long, in 

 contact with five labials. Gular shields in two pairs, shorter than 

 wide; these followed by the first gastrostege, the anterior border of 

 which is below the posterior border of the eye. 



Coloration. — Above uniform iridescent light brown, head a trifle 

 darker, the trace of a nuchal band. Below yellow, line of demarca- 

 tion sharp, on the body along the lower border of the first scale row, 

 on the head along the supralabials. 



Anatomy. — Body laterally compressed, at the middle being 7.8 mm. 

 deep, and 6.5 mm. wide. Head slightly distinct from neck, width 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



6.3 mm. interorbital region 3.7 mm., interval between nostrils 1.1 mm. 

 Eye with vertically subelliptic pupil, diameter 1.7 mm., its distance 

 from the mouth .8 mm. Maxillary bone with 33 teeth; reaching 

 beyond the palatine. Ectopterj'goid bone short, ectopterygo- 

 maxillary joint at the level of the second, and ectopterygo-pterj-goid 

 joint at the level of the seventh tooth on the pterygoid bone. Pala- 

 tine bone Avith 20 teeth; no vomerine process; maxillary process a 

 broad elongate shelf extending back to the level of the 13th tooth, 

 at the articulation with the maxillary bone its external edge is incisetl, 

 before and behind the joint an externally directed process; on the 

 under surface of this shelf at the base of each process is a foramen, 

 these are the entrance and the exit to a canal which perforates the 

 bone and gives passage to a branch of the palatine artery; palato- 

 pterygoid joint oblique from within out, the posterior tip of the 

 palatine bone reaching to the level of the last tooth on the maxilla. 

 Pterygoid bone with 30 teeth which extend to within 1.1 mm. of the 

 posterior tip of the bone. Apex of the heart at the level of the 37th 

 gastrostege, eciuivalent to 22.7% down the spinal column. No 

 rudimentary right lung or extension of the pulmonary tissue along 

 the trachea. Liver extends from the 45th to the 88th gastrostege. 



Habits. — The stomach contained an earthworm belonging to the 

 family Perichaiidoe. 



Habitat. — Recorded from Luzon, Samar, Leyte, Calamianes, 

 Dinagat, and Mindanao. 



Lystrophis semicinctus (Dumeril and Bibron). 



No. 14,571 Cal. Ac. Sci. (Purchased.) Tucuman, Argentine. 

 Male; total length 455, tail 63 mm. 



Squamation. — Scales in 21 rows anteriorly, reduced to 19 and 17 

 posteriorly ; the sequence of suppression is the V row followed by the 

 IV row; the gastrostege level at which the rows terminate is nearly 

 the same on each side: 



each scale is smooth, and with a single apical pit; the lateral and 

 dorsal scales are elongate, and in very oblique transverse series, the 

 tip of each is well anterior to the middle of the scale below and behind 

 it ; the scales in the first to the fifth rows are broad, not in markedly 

 oblique series, the tip of each scale is anterior to the centre of the 

 15 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



scale that is below and behind it. Gastrosteges 156. Anal divided. 

 Urosteges 34 pairs, the second to the seventh and the ninth entire. 

 Rostral reaching to the azygos prefrontal, separating the internasals 

 and lateral prefrontals, above with a sharp median keel, anterior 

 inferior surface flat, inclined upward at an angle of 45°, and bordered 

 by a sharp edge. Frontal with a small incisure from the middle of 

 the anterior border. Preoculars 2, postoculars 2. Anterior tem- 

 porals 2, posterior 2. Supralabials 8, the fourth and fifth entering 

 the eye. Infralabials 11, the first pair broadly in contact. Anterior 

 geneials three times the size of the posterior; touching five labials. 



Anatomy. — Posterior vertebrae with a low rounded keel. Maxillary 

 with 5 small teeth gradually increasing in size posteriorly; these 

 followed by a space that would support two more ; behind 2 enlarged 

 teeth situated below the posterior rim of the pupil, a trifle longer than 

 the space, curved, and with a sharp cutting edge behind. Palatine 

 with 5 teeth ; tip of bone reaching to the interval between the second 

 and the third maxillary tooth. Pterygoid with 12 teeth; pterygo- 

 palatine joint at the interval between the enlarged maxillary teeth. 

 Dentary with 14 equal teeth. Heart far forward, apex opposite the 

 26th gastrostege, in terms of body vertebrae this is 16.7% do^\Ti the 

 column. Left lung begins abruptly at the base of the ventricle, 

 without free apex or extension of the pulmonary tissue along the 

 trachea. Liver extending from the 36th to the 64th gastrostege. 

 Hemipenis 20 mm. long, divided, sulcus furcate, spinous, and with an 

 apical disk. Compared with the figure of the organ in L. dorhigny 

 (Dumeril and Bibron)^ this form is less deeply divided, the divisions 

 reaching to one-third, instead of one-half the distance from the tip 

 of the organ to the bifurcation of the sulcus, the apical disk is larger 

 and with a wider free border. Eye 2.5 mm. in diameter, its distance 

 from the mouth 3.3 mm. 



Oligodon vertebralis Giinther. 



No. 15,808 Cal. Ac. Sci. Coll. A. Seale, Esq. Puerto Princesa, 

 Palawan, P. I. Female; total length 159, tail 24 mm. 



Squamation. — Scales in 15 rows, finely striate, without keels or 

 pits. Gastrosteges 139. Anal divided. Urosteges 36 pairs. Ros- 

 tral one and one-half times broader than long, portion seen from above 

 two-thirds its distance from the frontal. Suture between the inter- 

 nasals twice as long as that between the prefrontals. Frontal one- 



1 1900: Cope, Croc, Liz., Sn. No. Am., Repl. U. S. Nat. Mm., 1898, PI. XXIV, 

 fig. 6. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



third longer than broad, distance from the rostral less than one-half 

 its width, a trifle shorter than the parietals. Nasal divided into 

 two equal portions. Loreal nearly square, not quite as deep as the 

 diameter of the pupil. Preocular 1, postoculars 2. Temporals 

 anterior 1, posterior 1. Supralabials 7, the third and fourth entering 

 the eye, the sixth the deepest, and touching the posterior temporal. 

 Infralabials 8, the first pair in contact behind the mental. Anterior 

 geneials nearly twice as large as the posterior, in contact with four 

 labials. 



Coloration. — Body above brown, with a vertebral series of ten 

 round or oblong, yellow, black-edged spots; tail with two; numerous 

 yellow dots having a tendency to be arranged in two to three trans- 

 verse rows between each dorsal spot; the anterior chevron mark 

 interrupted over the frontal; on the parietals behind the posterior 

 chevron a small dot. Under surface of head white, throat with a 

 break in the posterior chevron; body beneath yellow. 



Anatomy. — Pupil round. Heart apex at the level of the 34th 

 gastrostege, in terms of body vertebrae this is 24% down the spinal 

 column. Anterior tip of the liver at the 43d gastrostege. 



Museo de Santa Toma, Manila. Palawan, Philippine Islands. 

 Male; total length 308, tail 54 mm. 



Squamation. — Scales in 15 continuous rows. Gastrosteges 136. 

 Anal divided. Urosteges 37 pairs and the terminal pointed scale. 

 Internasal suture as long as the prefrontal suture. Frontal as long 

 as the parietals. Preocular 1, postoculars 2. Temporals anterior 1, 

 posterior 2. Supralabials 7 on the left side and 6 on the right, the 

 fifth and sixth fused, the third and fourth entering the eye. 



Coloration. — Body with ten, tail with two, yellow black-edged 

 dorsal spots. 



Museo de Santa Toma, Manila. Palawan, Philippine Islands. 

 Male; total length 340, tail 64 mm. 



Squamation. — Scales in 15 continuous rows. Gastrosteges 143. 

 Anal divided. Urosteges 41 pairs, and the terminal pointed scale. 

 Preocular 1, postoculars 2. Temporals anterior 1, posterior 2. 



Coloration. — Body with ten, tail with three, yellow black-edged 

 vertebral spots. 



Habitat. — Heretofore known only by the type which came from 

 Banjermasin in the extreme south of Borneo. 

 Oligodon schadenbergi Boettger. 



No. 15,281 Cal. Ac. Sci. Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Female; 

 total length 226, tail 39 mm. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Squamation. — Scales in 15 rows, continuous throughout, finely 

 striate, without keels or pits. Gastrosteges 137. Anal divided. 

 Urosteges 42 pairs. Rostral one and one-half times broader than 

 long. Suture between the internasals .6 mm., two-thirds of that' 

 between the prefrontals. Frontal 3.9 mm. long, 3 mm. broad, its 

 distance from the rostral 1.5 mm. Parietal 4.2 mm. long. Preocular 

 1, postoculars 2. Temporals anterior 1, posterior 2. Supralabials 7, 

 third and fourth entering the eye; the sixth the highest. Infra- 

 labials 8, the first pair in contact behind the mental. Anterior 

 geneials touching four labials, one and one-half times as large as the 

 posterior. 



Coloration.— Eody dark brown above, with a vertebral series of 

 twelve very small yellow, black-edged spots, tail with two ; between 

 each pair of spots are three transverse rows of minute yellow dots. 

 Under surface orange. Head with two chevron-shaped bands, the 

 posterior twice the broader; beneath with black V-shaped mark on 

 the anterior geneials, a short longitudinal line on the throat, posterior 

 chevron broadly interrupted. 



Anatomy. — Heart apex at the level of the 28th gastrostege, in 

 terms of body vertebrae this is 20.4% down the column. Anterior 

 tip of the liver at the 39th gastrostege. 



Habitat. — Previously known from three specimens secured on 

 Busuanga Island, Calamianes Group, Philippine Islands. 



This species as at present defined cannot be separated from 0. 

 vertebralis by any single isolated character. The few specimens 

 recorded show that the one to which Boettger's description applies 

 may be distinguished from a tj'pical 0. vertebralis in the following 

 details : internasal suture shorter than the prefrontal ; lateral borders 

 of the frontal converge posteriorly, instead of being parallel; loreal 

 broader than deep; two posterior temporals, sixth supralabial lower 

 and not reaching to the superior-posterior temporal; the vertebral 

 series of spots are much smaller and the transverse rows of minute 

 dots are more distinct. These differences are each well within the 

 range of individual variation. The most pronounced character is 

 the absence of the large spots on the back of the adult 0. schadenbergi, 

 but it does not hold for the young. The distribution of the two 

 broadly overlap in the Southern Philippines. As more specimens 

 are secured there will probably be found examples that will form a 

 complete intermediate series. 



U. S. F. S. Albatross, March 17, 1913. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



May 6. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Thirty-nine persons present. 



The reception of papers under the following titles was reported 

 by the Publication Committee : 



"The antenodal reticulation of the wings of Agrionine Dragon- 

 flies," by Herbert Campion (April 18). 



"The fossil Odonate Phenacolestes, with a discussion of the 

 venation of the Legion Podagrion Selys," by Philip P. Calvert 

 (April 18). ■ 



"A contribution to a knowledge of the Orthoptera of Argentina," 

 by James A. G. Rehn (April 19). 



The issue of the Index to the Publications of the Academy from 

 1817 to 1910, inclusive, was reported. 



Miss H. New^ell Wardle made an illustrated communication 

 on the miniature temples and temple pyramids of the ancient Mexi- 

 cans. (No abstract.) 



May 20. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Three hundred persons present. 



The death of the Rev. Leander T. Chamberlain, a member, INIay 16, 

 1913, was announced. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of a paper 

 entitled "The Helicidae of Lower California," by Henry A. Pilsbry 

 (May 22). 



Dr. William E. Hughes made a finely illustrated communication 

 on a winter exploration of Bolivia and Peru, with special regard to 

 the Inca ruins. (No abstract.) 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



THE ANTENODAL RETICULATION OF THE WINGS OF AGKIONINE 

 DR&GONFLIES. 



BY HERBERT CAMPION. 



When describing the remarkable fossil dragonfly Phenacolestes 

 inirandus, from Florissant, Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell laid stress upon 

 its possession of five antenodal nervures, and, upon the strength of 

 that character alone, proposed to erect Phenacolestes — together with 

 Dysagrion, also from the North American Tertiaries — into a new 

 subfamily of Agrionidae, the Dysagrioninse.^ "Dysagrion Scudder, 

 the type of the subfamily," he wrote, ''has not been supposed to 

 possess an unusual number of antenodals, but it is evidently allied to 

 Phenacolestes, which has five; and Scudder's figure of Dysagrion 

 fredericii shows two antenodals beyond the arculus, and as the first 

 two of all Agrionids must certainly have been present, there were at 

 least four." In the description of Phenacolestes mirandus it is stated: 

 "Antenodal sectors five, of which only the first two continue to the 

 radius, these being the two present in Agrioninse. The second, 

 however, does not meet, or nearly meet, the arculus, but ends on the 

 radius 204/^ beyond it (a character also of Melanagrion)." On the 

 same occasion Prof. Cockerell described the apical half of a wing, 

 also from the Tertiary of Florissant, as Phenacolestes parellelus, but 

 expressed a doubt as to the true generic position of the fossil. Sub- 

 sequently, he recorded the base of a wing having six antenodal 

 cross-nervures, which he referred provisionally to the same species.^ 



In the typical Agrionine wing we find two antenodals only, which 

 cross transversely both the costal and subcostal spaces; one of them 

 is placed before and the other at the level of the arculus. In fact, 

 so general is this 'number of antenodals in the Agrioninse, that for 

 many years it was one of the chief characters used in separating that 

 subfamily from the Calopteryginse, in which the antenodals are more 

 numerous. In a few recent Agrionines, however, three, or even five, 

 antenodals occur with more or less constancy, and we are therefore 

 no longer able to regard antenodal reticulation as a character of 



'■Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., XXIV, p. 60 (1908). 

 ^Amer. Journ. Sci., XXVI, p. 75 (1908). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



primary importance in the classification of the Zygoptera. Super- 

 numerary antenodals are often weaker than the normal ones, and are 

 frequently incomplete; that is to say, they may appear as short 

 nervures crossing the costal space alone or the subcostal space alone. 



As already remarked, the second antenodal coincides with the 

 arculus in the typical Agrioninse, but in such genera as Agriocnemis, 

 Argiocnemis, Ceratura, and Hemiphlebia, it comes before the level of 

 the arculus, while it lies beyond it in the fossil genera Melanagrion 

 and Phenacolestes. 



In Neurolestes trinervis De Selys, from Kamerun, we get three 

 complete antenodals constantly present, and, according to its de- 

 scriber, the supernumerarj^ nervure is placed between the usual two. 

 Neuragrion mysticum Karsch was described from a single 9 from 

 Ecuador, and here again there is an additional nervure lying between 

 the ordinary ones. But in this case the nervure is confined to the 

 hind-wings and to the subcostal space only. Of Thaumatoneura, 

 from Central America, two species are known, namely, T. inopinata 

 McLach. and T. pellucida Calv. In this genus a fourth, or even a 

 fifth, antejiodal is occasionally added to the more usual number of 

 three, and in some instances the number is reduced to two. The 

 third, fourth, and fifth antenodals, when present, are placed beyond 

 the level of the arculus and are confined to the costal space. Podop- 

 teryx roseonotata De Selys is represented in the British Museum 

 Collection by three specimens, namely, the type cf , obtained in Aru 

 by A. R. Wallace, and a fine pair (cf & 9 ) from Queensland (F. P. 

 Dodd). The Australian examples do not possess more than two 

 antenodals in any of their wings, but the type specimen has a third 

 antenodal in each wing, beyond the level of the arculus, and crossing 

 the costal space only in three wings, and both the costal and subcostal 

 spaces in the remaining wing. Furthermore, in three wings there 

 is a transverse nervure traversing the subcostal space alone before 

 the first regular antenodal. 



Although the South African genus Chlorolestes does not normally 

 possess more than two cross-veins before the nodus, there are two 

 specimens in the British Museum Collection which exhibit a third 

 cross-vein. One of these insects is a cf of C. longicauda Burm., in 

 the right hind-wing of which the additional nervure is placed between 

 the usual two and ceases at the subcosta. The other is a cf of 

 C. fasciata De Selys, and in this case the added nervure, which ceases 

 at the subcosta, lies before the first normal antenodal in the right 

 hind-wing. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Two Neotropical genera occasionally present similar features to 

 those observed in Chlorolestes. The Godman-Salvin Collection of 

 Central American Odonata, now in the British Museum, includes 

 the type and three other specimens of Paraphlebia quinta Calv., all 

 from Guatemala. Two of these have an additional antenodal in as 

 many as five out of their eight wings, and in each instance it is 

 proximal to the first regular antenodal and is restricted to the sub- 

 costal space. A 9 of Heteragrion chrysops Hag., from Vera Cruz, 

 also in the Godman-Salvin Collection, has, in three of its wings, a 

 supernumerary antenodal between the usual ones and limited to the 

 costal space. 



All the recent species which have been considered so far belong to 

 De Selys' Legion Podagrion, a group which has been declared to be 

 "heterogeneous and untenable," but which includes the most archaic 

 genera of Agrioninae that have yet been made known. However, 

 at least two species belonging to the more highly specialized genera 

 may be cited as affording other instances of the accidental reappear- 

 ances of the kind under review. One of these is the type 9 of 

 Ischnura granti McLach., from Sokotra, preserved in the British 

 Museum, in which a third antenodal is present in all the wings, except 

 the right fore- wing. In each case it is placed beyond the level of the 

 arculus and ends on the subcosta. The other species referred to is 

 Pyrrhosoma nijmphula Sulz., concerning which Prof. Philip P. Calvert 

 is kind enough to inform me that he possesses a 9 from Birmingham, 

 Warwickshire, taken by Mr. W. H. Bath, whose left fore-wing has 

 three antenodals, the third lying beyond the usual two and crossing 

 the costal space only. 



It is not improbable that the supernumerary antenodals which we 

 have found to occur sporadically, as an individual peculiarity, repre- 

 sent nervures which were present normally in the wings of some 

 ancestral form, but which have been lost in the majority of living 

 Agrioninae. The main tendency of Agrionine development has been 

 in the direction of simplified wing-venation, and in the more highly 

 specialized genera the costal and subcostal spaces have shared in the 

 general elimination of superfluous cross-veins. As soon as the 

 number of antenodals had been reduced to two, however, specializa- 

 tion in this direction appears to have ceased, for no Agrionine is known 

 having fewer than two complete cross-veins, except in rare cases of 

 individual aberration. In this connection it will be useful to quote 

 some remarks made by Prof. Calvert respecting two Mexican speci- 

 mens of Ischnura denticollis Burm., which are in the following terms: 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



223 



"Two abnormalities in venation may be mentioned here: One 

 male from Patzcuaro has only one antecubital on the right hind-wing, 

 situated at the level of the submedian cross-vein. One female from 

 Orizaba has the first antecubital on the right hind-wing only about 

 as far from the second as the costal space is wide, and it crosses only 

 the costal, not the subcostal, space."^ In consequence of the dis- 

 continuous antenodal in the 9 , which I have seen, and the single 

 antenodal in the d" lying on the level of the cubito-anal cross-vein 

 in each case, I regard both of them as occupying the intermediate 

 position between the two normal antenodals of Agrioninte. 



If this view should prove to be well-founded, it would follow that 

 we have evidence of the former existence of at least seven antenodals, 

 of which the second and fourth alone persist in the greater number of 

 recent Agrioninaj. In a hypothetical wing, including all the antenodal 

 cross-veins of which indications have so far been afforded by mor- 

 phology and teratology, the fourth antenodal is that which coincides 

 with the arculus, and this fact enables one to recognize it in all other 

 Agrionine wings. It is also comparatively easy to determine, in any 

 given case, the identity of each of the three antenodals which precede 

 it. But at present I can discover no means of ascertaining the exact 

 homology of the antenodals lying beyond the level of the arculus 

 which occur occasionally in one or two recent genera. 



In our reconstructed wing, then, we have seven antenodal cross- 

 veins, disposed in the following manner: Nos. 1, 2, and 3 placed 

 before the level of the arculus; No. 4 coinciding more or less exactly 

 with the arculus, and Nos. 5, 6, and 7 lying between the level of the 

 arculus and the nodus. Arranging in tabular form the material 

 which we have had under review, we get this result: 

 With antenodals Nos. 2 and 4: 



Agrioninae (with the exceptions noted below). 

 With antenodals Nos. 1, 2, and 4-' 



Chlorolestes fasciata (teratological cT). 



Paraphlehia quinta (teratological specimens). 

 With antenodals Nos. 1,2, 4, and one other: 



Podopteryx roseonotata (type cf )• 

 With antenodals Nos. 2, 3, and 4: 



Neurolestes trinervis (teste De Selys). 



Neuragrion mysticum. 



Chlorolestes longicauda (teratological d"). 



Heteragrion chrysops (teratological 9 ) . 

 ^Biol. Centr.-Amer., Neuropt., p. 127, footnote (1902). 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



With antenodal No. 3 only: 



Ischnura denticollis (teratological cf). 



With antenodals Nos. 3 and I^: 



Ischnura denticollis (teratological 9 ) . 



With antenodals Nos. 2, 4, and another: 

 Ischnura granti (type 9). 

 Pyrrhosoma nymphula (teratological 9 ) . 

 Thaumatoneura (normally) . 



With antenodals Nos. 2, 4, and two or three others: 

 Thaumatoneura (occasionally) . 



With antenodals Nos. 2, 4, 5, 6, and 7: 

 Phenacolestes mirandus. 



Although Phenacolestes parallelus is believed to have had six 

 antenodal cross-veins, it has not been possible to place it in the 

 table, as no information has been given concerning the position of 

 the veins in relation to the arculus. 



Looking at the number and arrangement of the antenodal nervures 

 alone, and without having regard to any other considerations, it 

 would appear that among recent genera Thaumatoneura bears the 

 closest resemblance to Phenacolestes. Moreover, this resemblance 

 is accentuated when, as sometimes happens, a fourth, or even a fifth, 

 antenodal is present. But of course the venation of the spaces lying 

 between the nodus and the base of the wing is only one of many 

 characters which must be studied in attempting to arrive at the true 

 affinities of Phenacolestes, and for the present it is perhaps advisable 

 to retain in the subfamily Agrioninse this and other genera associated 

 with it. 



In conclusion, I have to thank Professor Calvert for his kindness 

 in suggesting amendments to this paper, and particularly for drawing 

 my attention to the two Mexican specimens of Ischnura denticollis 

 recorded by him, and furnishing me with information respecting the 

 British 9 of Pyrrhosoma nymphula contained in his own collection. 




1913.] ■ NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



the fossil odonate phenacolestes, with a discussion of the 

 venation of the legion podagrion selys. 



by philip p. calvert. 

 Contents. 



Phenacolestes Material Studied, p. 225. 



The Principal Characters of Phenacolestes, p. 227. 



Comparisons of the fossils Dysagrion (p. 230), Melanagrion (p. 231) and Lithagrion 

 (p. 232) with Phenacolestes. 



Comparison of Thaumatoneura with Phenacolestes, p. 233. 



Relationships of Thaumatoneura, p. 233. 



Comparisons of Philogenia (p. 23.5), Megapodagrion [Allopodagrion] (p. 236), 

 Paraphlebia (p. 237), Dimeragrion (p. 238), Heteragrion (p. 239), Mesagrion, 

 Heteropodagrion and Neuragrion (p. 240), Rhipidolestes (p. 241), Podopteryx 

 (p. 242), Argiolestes (p. 243), Chlorolestes (p. 244) and Various Old World 

 Genera (p. 244) with Phenacolestes. 



General Discussion of the Value of the Venational Characters compared in the 

 preceding Genera for the Determination of Relationships, p. 245. 



Synopsis of Venational Characters of Genera of the Legion Podagrion, p. 256. 



Outline of an Alternative Groui)ing of the Genera of the Legion Podagrion, p. 261. 



The Relationships of Phenacolestes, p. 262. 



On the Subfamily Dysagi'ionina? Cockerell, p. 264. 



Additional Data on Dimeragrion, n. gen., p. 265. 



Bibliography, p. 270. 



Explanation of Plate XIV, p. 272. 



Phenacolestes Material Studied. 



In 1908, Profe.ssor T. D. A. Cockerell described (1908a) two species 

 of fossil Odonata from Station 14, Florissant, Colo., as Phena- 

 colestes mirandus and P/!.(?) parallelus. A little later (19086) he 

 added a note based on an additional fragment which he referred to 

 the latter species, and in another place (1908c) he gave a figure 

 showing the body as well as the wings, the previous accounts having 

 referred to the wings only. In connection with the original descrip- 

 tion he quotes from a letter from Professor Needham who almost 

 implies that Ph. mirandus is to be placed in de Selys' legion Podagrion 

 of the Agrioninffi (1908a, p. 63). 



In the latter part of 1910, Professor Cockerell wrote to me that 

 he had found more wings of Phenacolestes, and requested me to study 

 them, in view of some differences of opinion as to its relationship to 

 modern dragonflies. 



When I accepted this offer, Professor Cockerell sent me four 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



specimens of these fossil wings which, for reference here, I have 

 numbered as follows: 



No. 1. Labelled " Phenacolestes mirandus Ckll. Florissant," in 

 Professor Cockerell's handwriting; 27 mm. long from base to apex. 



No. 2. Labelled " Phenacolestes mirandus CkW. Florissant Sta. 12 B 

 (G. N. Rohwer)," in the same hand. Apparently a hind wing. 

 Distorted, length from base to apex as it lies on the stone 26 mm. 



Nos. 3 and 4. Unlabelled. [These are the two impressions of the 

 same wing, and were collected by Geo. N. Rohwer. T. D. A. Cock- 

 erell.] Apparently a front wing. Length of No. 3 from base to apex 

 28 mm. ; of No. 4 (apex lost) from base to distal end of stigma 25 mm. 



They are figured from enlarged photographs on Plate 'XIV as fig- 

 ures 1-4. 



The beautiful preservation of these wings has rendered possible 

 the drawing up of almost as full a description of the venation as for 

 any living species. 



Professor Cockerell has very kindly presented specimen No. 3 

 to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia ; the other three 

 specimens will be returned to him. 



Thanks to the kindness of Dr. F. A. Bather, through the good 

 offices of Mr. C. J. Gahan, I have also studied two fossils of this 

 insect in the British Museum of Natural History, when in London 

 in August, 1912. One of these, catalogued as "No. I 8423," is the 

 paratype of Professor Cockerell's original description of Phenacolestes 

 mirandus. The other, "No. I 15,049," is labelled in Professor Cock- 

 erell's handwriting "Phenacolestes mirandus Ckll. Florissant Sta. 

 13 B (S. A. Rohwer)." No. I 8423 measures 20.5 mm. in length 

 from the wing-base to the proximal end of the stigma; the distal 

 part of the stigma and the tip of the wing are lacking; the nodus is 

 9 mm. from the base. No. I 15,049 has lost the stigma and apex of 

 the wing from the distal end of M2 forward (cephalad and distad) 

 and the extreme hind margin between the apices of M2 and Cui; 

 its length along the costa as preserved is 23 mm., the nodus is 10 mm. 

 from base. 



Use has also been made of an excellent photograph, for which I 

 thank Professor Cockerell and Dr. Max M. Ellis, of the University 

 of Colorado, of an almost perfect wing from the same locality as 

 that of the second specimen quoted in the preceding paragraph. 

 This photograph is reproduced as figure 5 on Plate XIV accompany- 

 ing this paper; it will be designated as No. 5 in these pages and 

 apparently represents a front wing. * 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



The following account is based, therefore, on six wings in seven 

 impressions. 



Throughout this paper the Comstock-Needham nomenclature 

 for the wing-veins has been emploj^ed. In the previous literature 

 on the living members of the legion Podagrion the Selysian terms 

 have been used. The equivalents of the two systems are therefore 

 appended here. 



De Selys: 



The Principal Characters of Phenacolestes (Plate XIV, figs. 1-5). 



1. Nodus at one-third of the wing-length. 



2. More than two antenodals. (Four in at least two (Nos. 2, 3, 4) 



of these specimens, five in No. 5 and in the two cited from 

 Brit. Mus.) 



3. Postnodals 17-19. 



4. Stigma having its proximal edge oblique. 



5. Cells of the wing generally, posterior to Mi, not greatly elongated 



at right angles to long axis of wing. 



6. The veins generally, posterior to Mi, have but a slight caudal 



curvature shortly before they approach the hind margin of 

 the wing. 



7. Between Mi and Mia is only one row of cells throughout to wing- 



margin. (In No. 5, increased to two rows at five cells' distance 

 from the margin.) 



8. Between Mio and M2 is one row of cells, increasing to two and 



then three rows, and so continuing to wing-margin. 



1 Throughout this paper "Rs" has been used as the equivalent of de Selj^s' 

 "*' subnodal sector. " 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



9. AI2 separates from Mi at five-thirteenths ( = .38) of the distance 

 from nodus to stigma. (In No. 5, however, the distance is 

 only .28, in No. I 8423 B. M. it is .26.) 



10. Between M2 and Rs is one row of cells increasing to two and then 



three rows, and so continuing to the margin. 



11. Rs separates from Mi + 2 at the subnodus. (Nos. 3, 4, 5, and 



B. M. I 15,049 show this clearly; B. M. I 8423 apparently 

 agrees with them; No. 1 has the point of separation slightly 

 proximal to the subnodus, while in No. 2 this part is indis- 

 tinguishable.) 



12. Between Rs and Ms is one row" of cells, increasing to two and then 



to three rows of cells. 



13. Arculus slightly proximal to the second antenodal.- 



14. M3 separating from M1+2 at six-tenths' to three-fourths' way 



from arculus to subnodus. 



15. Between Ms and M4 are (a) at least two cross-veins proximal to 



the level of the subnodus,^ and (6) at the wing-margin are 4-5 

 rows of cells. 



16. Quadrilateral with («) its proximal and distal sides strongly 



diverging caudad and (6) its distal side more than one-and 

 one-half times as long as its proximal side. 



17. Between Mi and Cui are (a) seven antenodal cells {sensu Selysii) 



and (6) at the wing-margin four to five rows of cells. 



18. Cubito-anal cross-veins one, which is situated between the 



levels of the first and second antenodals. 



19. Between Cui and Cu2 at the wdng-margin are about two rows 



of cells (three rows in B. M. No. I 15,049). 



20. Area posterior to Cu2 without distinct branches, but with three 



to four rows of cells. 



21. Anal vein separating from the hind wing-margin (a) proximad 



to the level of the arculus and (6) proximad to the level of the 

 cubito-anal cross-vein. 



22. Anal cross-veins, proximal to the level of the distal end of the 



quadrilateral, one. 



Compared with Professor Cockerell's original description of 

 Phenacolestes mirandus (1908a, p. 61), the present material shows the 

 following differences : 



Antenodal cross-veins^ four in some specimens instead of five. 



Basal space {i.e., cell M1-4) 4 mm. long, instead of nearly 5 mm. 



2 For B. M. No. I 8423 I have even noted, "Arculus very slightly more distal 

 than midway between the two normal antenodals." 



» The second, or distal, of these is actually at the subnodus in the two British 

 Museum specimens. 



4 Prof. Cockerell speaks of antenodal and postnodal sectors meaning these 

 cross-veins. This word is not in accordance with the usage of other authors on 

 the Odonata. R3 in the same description should be Rs. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



Quadrangle with its upper side distinctly shorter than the lower 

 side. 



Ms separating from M1+2 at 3.5-4 mm. from the arculus, 2.5-1 mm. 

 from level of nodus. 



Postnodal cross-veins'* 17-19, instead of 21. 



Stigma bounding 3^ or 4| cells above, preservation imperfect in 

 most of these specimens. 



Ml and M2 separating at as much as 10.75 mm. from arculus, 

 instead of 9.67 mm. 



Beyond the ciuadrangle, i.e., between M4 and Cui, are seventeen 

 single cells (Nos. 3 and 4), or sixteen (No. 5), then two rows increas- 

 ing; hence very different from Prof. Cockerell's statement, p. 62, 

 which does not seem to agree with his figure (13 of Plate V). 



There is but one row of cells between Mi and Mia throughout, thus 

 agreeing with the description of P/i.(?) parallehis (I.e., p. 62) in 

 distinction from Ph. mirandus. 



Two specimens, Nos, 1 and 3, are sufficiently preserved to enable 

 a count of the cells between M2 and Rs to be made. From the margin 

 proximad these are, in No. 1, 7 marginal cells, then 3 rows for 3-4 

 cells, then 2 rows for 6 cells, then 1 row (which is consequently met 

 at 10-11 cells in from the margin), this single row comprising about 

 15 cells to the origin of Rs, three of these 15 being basad of the origin 

 of M2. Corresponding figures for specimen No. 3 are 5 (?) marginal 

 cells, then 3 rows for 4 cells, then 2 rows for 3 cells, then 1 row (which 

 is consequently met at 8 cells in from the margin), this single row 

 comprising about 20 cells to the origin of Rs, 5| of these 20 being 

 basad of the origin of M2. In B. M. No. I 8423, this single row 

 consists apparently of 15 cells, 4 of which are basad of the origin of 

 M2. In B. M. No. I 15,049, this single row consists of 15 or 16 cells, 

 3 and the greater part of the fourth of which are basad of the origin 

 of M2; No. 5 appears to be very similar. None of these arrange- 

 ments is identical with that described for Pfi. mirandus, where, 

 however, the single row of cells is met at 11 cells in from the margin. 



Prof. Cockerell gives two formulae for Ph. mirandus and Ph.{?) 

 parallelus, respectively (I.e., p. 62), these formulae being obtained by 

 taking "a section of the wing down from the basal part of the stigma 

 to Cu2, and count[ingl the numbers of rows of cells successively met 

 between the longitudinal veins .... commencing with that 

 between Ri and Mi." The numbers of cells so obtained will depend 

 on the exact position of the line of section, but Prof. Cockerell does 

 not specify this. Choosing, as the two points fixing this line, the 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



inferior proximal angle of the stigma and the point where Cu2 meets 

 the hind wing-margin, the following formulae for the present material 

 were obtained: 



No. 1: 1, 1, 2, 1, 2, 2, 3, 2. 



No. 2: (too imperfect). 



No. 3: 1, 1, 2, I, 2, 2, 3, 2. 



No. 4: 1, 1, 2, 1, 2, 2, 3, 2. 



No. 5: 1, 1, 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 2. 



No. I 15,049: 1, 1, 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 2. 



We have here two different formulae, neither of which agree with 

 either of Prof. Cockerell's formulae. 



Guided b}^ the amount of variation in venational details of one 

 and the same living species of Agrioninae, I am of the opinion that 

 the differences shown by the present material, inter se and from 

 Prof. Cockerell's data, do not justify the specific separation of the 

 specimens before me from Ph. mirandus. 



All of the present material show more or less distinctly the dark 

 band across the wing, described by Prof. Cockerell; it is best illus- 

 trated in our figure 5. 



Phenacolestes agrees with the venational characters of the legion 

 Podagrion, as stated by de Selys in 1886,^ with the one exception 

 that the wings are not "petiolees beaucoup plus loin que la nervule 

 basale postcostale." I think that there can be no doubt that its 

 nearest living aUies are to be found in this group. I have therefore 

 made comparisons with a number of genera of this legion, especially 

 American, with the results set forth below. As I have had only 

 five of the fossil wings and photographs of one other before me and 

 am unable to determine whether all of them are of the fore or hind 

 pairs, I have not thought it necessary to employ any great number 

 of specimens of the living species for these comparisons. 



Comparison of th£; fossil Dysagrion (packardii, fredericii) 

 WITH Phenacolestes. 



According to the figures and descriptions of this Eocene genus, 

 from the Green River shales of Wyoming, given by Scudder,^ Dysa- 

 grion and Phenacolestes agree in the characters above numbered 

 2, 3, 4, 5, 7,'^ 10, 11,^ 14, 156, 16a and b, 20, 21a and b, and 22, and 



5 Mem. Couron. Acad. Belg., XXXVIII, p. 30. 



6 Tertiary Insects of North America, 1890, pi. 6, figs. 3, 9, 14 and pp. 128-133. 

 ' In D. packardii, but not in D. fredericii. 



8 As Scudder has pointed out, p. 129, however, the subnodus is bent proximad 

 (instead of distad as is the case in Phenacolestes). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 231 



differ in the following characters, the difference shown by Dijsagrion 

 being stated: 



I. Nodus at .37 of the wing-length. 



6. The veins generally, posterior to Mi, have a slighter caudal 



curvature as they approach the hind margin. 



7. Between Mi and Mia are two rows of cells beginning under the 



stigma (D. fredericii, not D. packardii). 



8. Between Mia'and M2 is one row of cells increasing to two, three, 



and finally five rows. 



9. M2 separates from Mi at .15^ of the distance from nodus to stigma. 



12. Between Rs and Ms is one row of cells increasing to two, three, 



and eventually eight rows. 



13. Arculus apparently at the second antenodal. 



15a. Between Ms and"M4 is apparently only one cross-vein proximal 

 to the level of the subnodus. 



17. Between Mt and Cui are (a) 8-10 antenodal cells (the quadri- 



lateral is much shorter than in Phenacolestes) and (6) at the 

 wing-margin onl}^ one row of cells. 



18. Cubito-anal cross-veins two in D. fredericii, one of them proximal, 



the other distal, to the arculus; none showTi in D. packardii. 



19. Between Cui and Cu2 at wing-margin one {D. packardii) or three 



(D. fredericii) rows of cells. 



Comparison of the fossil jNIelanagrion (umbratum) with 

 Phenacolestes. 



According to the figures and description of this Miocene genus 

 from Florissant, Colo., given by Scudder,!" Melanagrion and Phena- 

 colestes agree in the characters above numbered 5, 7, S,^^ 9, 10, ^^ 

 13, 14, 15a, 16a and b, 18, and differ in the following characters, 

 the difference shown by Melanagrion being stated : 



1. Nodus at .3 (?) of the Aving-length. 



2. Only two antenodals. 



3. More than 26 postnodals (27, Scudder). 



4. Stigma having both proximal and distal ends much less oblique. 

 6. The veins generally, posterior to Mi, have a slighter caudal 



curvature as they approach the hind margin. 



II. Rs separates from'Mi+2 slightly proximal to the subnodus. 



» This is taken by measurement from Scudder's figure, although he says that 

 the '"nodal sector arises from the principal .... scarcely more than one-fifth 

 way to the pterostigma" (p. 129), and in another place (p. 128) "at scarcely 

 one-fifth the distance from the nodus to the pterostigma." Whether figure oi- 

 text be correct, both differ from the condition in Phenacolestes. 



10 Scudder, Tertiary Insects of North Aynerica, 1890, pi. 13, figs. 12, 14, p. 136, 

 described this form as a Lithagrion. It was made the type of a new genus, 

 Melanagrion, by Prof. Cockerell in Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., XXXIII, p. 138, 

 1907. . ,. , 



" At the extreme margin there are four rows m Melanagrion. 



16 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



12. Between Rs and Ms is one row of cells increasing to two rows. 

 156. Between Ms and M4 at the wing-margin are only three rows 



of cells, 

 17. Between M4 and Cm are (a) about three antenodal cells and 



(h) at the margin one row of cells. 



19. Between Cm and Cu2 at the wing-margin appear to be but one 



row of cells. 



20. Area posterior to Cu2 with no more than two rows of cells. 



21. Anal vein separating from the hind wing-margin (a) distad 



(fig. 12) or proximad (fig. 14) to the level of the arculus and 

 (6) at the level of the cubito-anal cross-vein (fig. 14, cross-vein 

 not shown in fig. 12). i"' 



22. No anal cross-veins, according to both figures. 



Comparison of the fossil Lithagrion (hyalinum) with 

 Phenacolestes. 



According to the figure and description of this ^Miocene genus 

 from Florissant, Colo., given by Scudder^^ and some notes on 

 more recently found specimens kindly communicated by Prof. 

 Cockerell, Lithagrion and Phenacolestes agree in the characters above 

 numbered 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10 (probably), 11, 14, 15a, 16a and h, 18, 

 and differ in the following characters, the differences shown by 

 Lithagrion being stated: 



2. Probably only two antenodals.^'* 



4. Stigma having its proximal edge very much less oljlique. 

 6. The veins generally, posterior to Mi, have a slighter caudal 

 curvature as they approach the wing-margin. 



12. Between Rs and iVls is only one row of cells to the wing-margin. 



13. Arculus at the second antenodal. ^^ 



156. Between Ms and M4 at the wing-margin are only two or three 



rows of cells. 

 17. Between M4 and Cui are (a) three antenodal cells and (6) one 



row of cells increasing to two rows only at the extreme margin. 



19. Between Cui and Cu: at the wing-margin is only one row of cells. 



20. Area posterior to Cu2 with only one row of cells. 



21. Anal vein, separating from the hind margin of the wing distad 



to the levels (a) of the arculus and (6) of the cubito-anal cross- 

 vein. 



22. Anal cross-veins proximal to the level of the distal end of the 



quadrilateral apparently none. 



12 Scudder's description, p. 136, says, "The wings are petiolated veiy nearly 

 up to the first postcostal nervule, which is placed shortly before the base of the 

 quadrilateral. " 



13 Tertiary Insects of North America, 1890, pi. 13, fig. 4, and pp. 128, 134-136. 



1^ Scudder's figure, I.e., shows but one, at the arculus^ Compare Prof. Cock- 

 erell's statements on this point in Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., XXXIII, p. 137 

 (1907); XXXIV, p. 63 (1908); Amer. Journ. Sci., XXVI, p. 69 (1908). 



15 A sketch kindly sent by Prof. Cockerell shows the arculus a little distal to- 

 the second antenodal. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



COxMPARISON OF ThAUMATONEURA (iNOPINATA AND PELLUCIDA) 

 WITH PhENACOLESTES. 



{Til. inopinata cf 9, Th. pellucida d^ , Costa Rica). 



These two genera agree in the characters above numbered 2, 11, 

 14 (except as noted below), and 21a. As regards character 11, the 

 separation point of Rs in Thaumatoneura varies and may be a Uttle 

 proximal to, at, or a Httle distal to, the subnodus. 



The two genera differ in characters given below; after each nmnber 

 the difference shown by Thaumatoneura is stated: 



1. Nodus at about one-fifth of the wing-length. 



3. Postnodals very numerous, about 70. 



4. Proximal edge of stigma more obhque. 



5. Cells more elongated at right angles to long axis of wing. 



6. Stronger caudal curvatures of the veins generally as the}' approach 



the hind margin of wing. 



7. The one row of cells between lsl\ and Mia increases to about 



10 rows at the wing-margin. 



8. The one row of cells between ]Mia and M2 increases to 6+ rows 



at the wing-margin. 



9. M2 separates from Mi at nearly one-half way from nodus to 



stigma and at a less acute angle. 

 10. Between M2 and Rs at the wing-margin are 6-7+ rows of cells. 



12. Between Rs and Ms at the wing-margin are 7-8 -f- rows of cells. 



13. Arculus at the second antenodal. ' 



14. Ms separates from M1+2 at a less acute angle. 



15. Between ^h and M4, (a) no cross-veins proximal to the level of 



the subnodus, (6) at the wing-margin 10-|- rows of cells. 



16. Quadrilateral with ia) its proximal and distal sides subparallel 



and (6) subeciual. 



17. Between ]\I4 and Cui are (a) 3-6 antenodal cells and ih) at the 



wing-margin 8+ rows of cells. 



18. Cubito-anal cross-veins two, one proximal to the level of the 



first antenodal cross-vein, the other below the middle of the 

 quadrilateral. 



19. Between Cui and Cu2 at wing-margin are about 12 rows of cells. 



20. Area posterior to Cu2 much larger, Cu2 with many branches. 

 216. Anal vein separates from the hind margin of the wing distad to 



the level of the proximal cubito-anal cross-vein. 

 22. Anal cross-veins proximal to the level of the distal end of the 

 quadrilateral 3-5. 



Relationships of Thaumatoneura. 



Some words maj' be added here as to the retention of Thaumato- 

 neura in this group after the diverging opinions of Professors Needham 

 and Foerster. The late Mr. McLachlan, on describing Thaumato- 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



neura (1897), referred it to the Calopteryginffi. In 1902, I placed 

 it in the legion Podagrion of the Agrioninse.^'' In 1903, Professor 

 Needham associated it with the Anormostigmatini ( = legion 

 Pseudostigma of Selys), stating that "it has all the essential vena- 

 tional characters of this group, and surely these are sufficiently 

 distinctive."^^ A comparison of Thaumatoneura with these essential 

 venational characters'^ gives the following result. 



Thaumatoneura agrees with the Anormostigmatini in that Us 

 separates from M1+2 at or very close to the subnodus and the part 

 of the wing beyond the nodus is greatly enlarged. On the other hand, 

 Thaumatoneura differs from the Anormostigmatini in that, while the 

 stigma is not braced, it is not diffuse or lost ; the matching of cross- 

 veins is not so marked; the longest vein between Mi and M2, which, 

 in the preceding pages, we have assumed to be Mia, does not parallel 

 M2 more than it parallels Mi and lies almost midway between Mi 

 and M3; it has shorter supplementary sectors between itself and Mi 

 and also between itself and M2; these latter tend to be longer and 

 better developed than those anterior to Mia, and in this Thaumato- 

 neura resembles Paraphlehia and differs from the Anormostigmatini. 

 This tendency to the development of more rows of cells between 

 Mio and M2 than between Mi and Mia is emphasized in Philogenia 

 carrillica, P. terraha, Heteragrion tricellulare, H. erythrogastrum and 

 Argiolestes icterotnelas which have no supplementary sectors between 

 Ml and Mia, but two between Mio and M2; all these are Podagrionines. 

 Even in more reduced venations of the same group, as in Allopoda- 

 grion there are no supplementary sectors between Mi and Mia, but 

 still one between Mia and M2. On the other hand, even in Anormos- 

 tigmatini with the most reduced venation, e.g., Mecistogaster, there 

 is a longer supplementary sector between Mi and Mia than between 

 Mia and M2. Professor Needham himself has pointed out some 

 further differences of Thaumatoneura from Megaloprepus, and still 

 others may be added. Thus the nodus and quadrilateral (quad- 

 rangle) are no more approximated in Thaumatoneura than in many 

 other undoubted members of the legion Podagrion (See Table I, 

 p. 250, posted). Thaumatoneura possesses more supplementary 

 sectors between M2 and Rs and between Rs and Ms. I believe, 

 therefore, that Thaumatoneura shows more resemblances to the 

 legion Podagrion than to the legion Pseudostigma, but it does not 



i« 1902, pp. 29-32. Biol. Centr. Amer. Neur., p. 58. 

 " Genealogic Study, pp. 748-749, footnote. 

 18 Needham, I.e., p. 748. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



seem impossible that the Anormostigmatini may have descended 

 from some form like Thaumatoneura. 



Professor Foerster considers Thaumatoneura as a connecting form 

 between the Calopteryginse and the legion Podagrion. ''which is 

 better left with the Calopteryginse." "Bei .... Thamnato- 

 neura ist der aussere Ast des Sector inferior trianguli convex nach 

 vorn gebogen wie bei alien echten Calopterygiden. Bei alien 

 Agrioninen ist er dagegen schwach convex nach hint en. "^^ Many 

 Calopteryginse (Selys) have not Cu2 convex anteriorly, of course, 

 such as Micromerus, Rhinocypha biforata and other species, Libellago, 

 etc., but perhaps these are not ''echt." On the other hand, such 

 Agrionines as Megaloprepus, Microstigma , and Paraphlehia also have 

 Cu2 convex anteriorly, while a tendency in the same direction is 

 observable in Argiolestes and even in Hyponeura, so that I cannot 

 see that any strong argument for the Calopterygine affinities of 

 Thaumatoneura can be drawn from this character. 



Comparison of Philogenia (terraba, carrillica) with 

 Phenacolestes. 



{Ph. terraba cf , Ph. carrillica cf 9 , Costa Rica.) 



These two genera agree in the characters above numbered 4, 5, 6, 

 7, 10,-0 11 {carrillica, not terraba), 12,2o 14, 16, 18. 



These two genera differ in characters given below; after each 

 number the difference shown by Philogenia is stated. 



1. Nodus at one-fourth of the wing-length. 



2. Only two antenodals. 



3. Postnodals 22-30. 



8. Between Mia and M2 is at first but one row of cells which, more 



distad, is increased to two and then to three rows by the 

 presence of two distinct curvilinear {i.e., not broken) supple- 

 mentary sectors, the posterior of which arises proximad to the 

 anterior; each of these three rows increases to a double row 

 before reaching the wing-margin at an individually variable 

 distance therefrom. 



9. M2 separating from Mi at one-third of the distance from nodus 



to stigma. 

 11. Rs separating from M1+2 a little distad to the subnodus {terraba, 



not carrillica). 

 13. Arculus slightly distal to the second antenodal. 



19 Jahrh. Nassau. Ver. f. Naturk. in Wiesbaden, 62, p. 214, 1909. 



-" At the very margin itself, each of the three rows in Philogenia tends to divide 

 into two rows, but each of these last extends inward only 2-3 cells from the 

 margin. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



15. Between Ms and M4 is (a) one cross-vein proximal to the level 

 of the subnodus and (6) at the wing-margin are two or three 

 rows of cells. 



17. Between M4 and Cui are (a) 2-3 antenodal cells and (b) at the 

 wing-margin one row of cells. 



19. Between Cui and Cu2 at the wing-margin is one row of cells. 



20. Area posterior to Cu2 less developed, having only one row of cells. 



21. Anal vein separating from the hind wing-margin at the mid-level 



of the quadrilateral, hence distad both to (a) the level of the 

 arculus and (6) that of the cubito-anal cross-vein. 



22. No anal cross-vein proximal to the level of the distal end of the 



quadrilateral, but there is a cross-vein continuing the vein 

 which forms the distal end of the quadrilateral to the wing- 

 margin; this cross- vein is absent in Phenacolestes, Thaumato- 

 neura and Paraphlebia. 



Note. — The wing figured by Prof. Needham (Genealogic Study, 

 PL 53, fig. 4) as that of "Philogenia sp.?" is not Philogenia, but 

 Megapodagrion Selys sens. kit. (AUopodagrion Foerster). 



Comparison of IMegapodagrion (nebulosum^^) with 

 Phenacolestes. 



{M. nebulosimi 2 cf, Bolivia.) 



These two forms agree in the characters above numbered 1, 3, 5, 

 7, 10, 11, 14, 16, 18, 21a, 22. 



These two forms differ in the characters given below; after each 

 number the diflference shown by the Megapodagrion is stated. 



2. Only two antenodals. 



4. Stigma having its proximal edge less oblique. 



6. The longitudinal veins show less curvature. 



8. Between Mia and M2 at the wing-margin are two rows of cells. 



9. M2 separates from Mi at .45 to .41 of the distance from nodus 



to stigma. 



12. Between Rs and Ms at the wing-margin is only one row of cells. 



13. Arculus at the second antenodal. 



15. Betw^een Ma and M* is (a) only one cross-vein proximal to the 

 level of the subnodus and (6) at the wing-margin are two rows 

 of cells. 



17. Between M4 and Cui are (a) 3-5 antenodal cells and (6) at the 

 wing-margin only one row of cells. 



19. Between Cui and Cu2 at the wing-margin is only one row of cells. 



20. Area posterior to Cu2 wath only one row of cells. 



21 Megapodagrion nebulosum Selys is referable to the recently proposed genus 

 AUopodagrion of Forster, Wien. Ent. Zeit., XXIX, p. 51, 1910. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



216. Anal vein separating from the hind margin of the wing at or 

 slightly distad to the cubito-anal cross-vein. 

 iVote.— The wing figured by Prof. Needham {Genealogic Study, 

 pi. 53, fig. 4) as that of ''Philogenia sp.?" is really that of a Mega- 

 podagrion Selys sens, hit., AUopodagrion Foerster. 



Comparison of Paraphlebia (zoe and abrogata) with 

 Phenacolestes. 



(P. zoe d^ 9 Mexico, P. abrogata cf Guatemala.) 



These two genera agree in the characters above numbered 4, 5, 10 



{abrogata only), 12 {abrogata only), and 156 {abrogata only). 

 These two genera differ in the characters given below; after each 



number the difference shown by Paraphlebia is stated. 



1. Nodus at one-fifth of the wing-length. 



2. Only two antenodals. 



3. Postnodals 40 ±:. 



6. Stronger caudal curvatures of the longitudinal veins generally 



as they approach the hind margin of the wing, although less 

 strongly curved than in Thaumatoneura. 



7. The one row of cells between ]Mi and Mia increases to 3 rows 



{abroqata) or 4-6 rows {zoe) at the wing-margin. 



8. The one row of cells between INIia and M2 increases to 3 rows 



{abrogata) or 4-6 rows {zoe) at the wing-margin. 



9. M2 separates from Mi at one-half {abrogata) or thirteen-thirtieths 



( = .43) of the distance from nodus to stigma {zoe). 



10. Between M2 and Rs at the wing-margin are 3-6 rows of cells 



{zoe) . 



11. Rs separates from M1+2 distad to the subnodus. 



12. Between Rs and Ms at the wing-margin are 3-6 rows of cells 



{zoe). 



13. Arculus at or even slightly distal to the second antenodal. 



14. Ms separating from M1+2 at or distad to the subnodus. 



15. Between jNIs and Mi (a) are no cross-veins proximal to the level 



of the subnodus {zoe, abrogata), and (6) at the wing-margin are 

 5-7 rows (front wings, zoe) or 6-11 rows (hind wings, zoe) of 

 cells. 



16. Quadrilateral with (a) its proximal and distal sides subparallel 



or slightly diverging caudad, and (6) its distal side hardly more 

 than one and one-half times as long as the proximal side. 



17. Between :Sl4 and Cui is (a) one, or less than one, antenodal cell, 



and (6) at the wing-margin are 3 (abrogata) or 3-6 {zoe) rows 

 of cells. 



18. Cubito-anal cross-veins two, one between the levels of the first 



and second antenodals, but nearer to that of the first, the other 

 nearly below the middle (or distal to the middle) of the quadri- 

 lateral. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



19. Between Cui and Cu2 at the wing-margin are 10-14 rows of cells 



in zoe, seven (front wings) or five (hind wings) rows in ahrogata. 



20. Area posterior to Cu2 le-ss developed and with only two (ahrogata, 



zoe 9 ) or three (zoe cf ) rows of cells. " 



21. Anal vein separating from the hind wing-margin (a) distad to 



the level of the arculus and (b) nearly at the level of the second 

 (distal) cubito-anal cross-vein. 



22. Anal cross-veins, proximal to the level of the distal end of the 



quadrilateral, tivo (one in the front wings of the single female 

 zoe) . 



Comparison of Dimeragrion n. gen. (percubitale n. sp.) with 

 Phenacolestes. 



(D. percubitale 14 6^, 6 9 , British Guiana, Plate XIV, fig. 6.) 



These two genera agree in the characters above numbered 1, 5, 

 7,23 g^ 9^ 12,24 16^^ 16^, 



These two genera differ in characters given below; after each 

 number the difference shown by Dimeragrion is stated. 



2. Twoantenodals.2^ 



3. Postnodals 20-27 (front wing), 16-24 (hind wing), fewer in the 



females than in the males. 



4. Stigma having its proximal edge more oblique. 



6. The veins generally, posterior to Mi, have a slighter caudal 

 curvature, or are almost straight, as they approach the hind 

 margin of the wing. 



10. Between M2 and Rs is but one row of cells which at a distance of 



usually two2^ cells from the '^\-ing-margin increases to two rows. 



11. Rs separates from M1+2 at the first postnodal, or a little proximad 



thereto, or between the first and second postnodals. 



13. Arculus at or very slightlj^ distal to the second antenodal. 



14. M3 separates from M1+2 a little proximad to the subnodus, at 



least at seven-eighths' distance from arculus to subnodus. 2^ 



2- The hind wings of some individuals, c? 9 , of P. duodecima have only one 

 row of cells here. 



-^ Two rows of cells between Mi and Mio for short distances proximad to the 

 level of the stigma have occasionally been noted in Dimeragrion, viz. : for three 

 cells in one front wing each of two males and for two cells in the other front wing 

 of one of these same two males. 



-* Each of the three rows of cells in the terminal part of the area Rs increases 

 to two rows at the wing-margin in one front and one hind wing of the same male. 



-* A third antenodal placed between the usual two and confined to the costal 

 space exists in the right hind wing only of one male. 



-^ This increase to two rows has been noted as beginning at three cells from 

 the margin in 2 front wings and 2 hind wings; at four cells in 3 front wings, 

 1 hind wing; at five cells in 2 front wings, 1 hind wing; at six cells in 2 front 

 wings, 2 hind wings; at seven cells in 1 hind wing. All the individuals, seven 

 in number, showing these variations are males. 



^ In one wing only it separated at the subnodus. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



15. Between ]Mi-3 and M4 are (a) no cross-veins proximal to the 



level of the subnodus, and (b) between Ms and jM4 is only one 

 row of cells to the wing-margin. 



17. Between M4 and Cui are (a) two to three antenodal cells {sensu 



Sehjsii) and (6) only one-^ row of cells to the wing-margin. 



18. Cubito-anal cross-veins between the levels of the two antenodals 



varying from . one to four, most frequently two ; often an 

 additional cross-vein proximal to the level of the first antenodal.-'* 



19. Between Cui and Cu2 is only one row of cells to the wing-margin. 



20. Area posterior to Cu2 with only one row of cells. 



21. Anal vein separating from the hind wing-margin (a) distad to the 



level of the arculus and (6) distad to the level of the cubito-anal 

 cross-vein or veins. 



22. Anal cross-veins, proximal to the level of the distal end of the 



quadrilateral, one, situated a little proximad to the oblique 

 vein which continues the distal side of the quadrilateral caudad, 

 or at that oblique vein. 



Comparison of Heteragrion (tricellulare) with 

 Phenacolestes. 



(H. triceUulare cf , Guatemala.)'"' 



These two forms agree in the characters above numbered 0, 7, 8, 



16, 18, 21a. 



These two forms differ in characters given below ; after each number 

 the difference shown by the Heteragrion is stated. 



1. Nodus at one-fourth. of the wing-length. 



2. Only two antenodals. 



3. Postnodals 21-25. 



4. Proximal edge of pterostigma more oblique, but the difference is 



less marked than in Thaumatoneura. 

 6. Longitudinal veins hardly curved at all caudad on approaching 



the wing-margin. 

 9. M2 separates from Mi at three-sevenths ( = .43) of the distance 



from nodus to stigma. 



10. Between M2 and Rs at the wing-margin is but one row of cells. 



11. Rs separates from M1+2 far distad {e.g., five to six cells) to the 



subnodus. 



12. Between Rs and M3 at the wing-margin is but one row of cells. 



13. Arculus at the second antenodal. 



14. Ms separating from M1+2 at or barely proximad to the subnodus. 



15. Between Ms and M4 are (a) no cross-veins proximal to the level 



of the subnodus, as results from No. 14, and (6) at the wing- 

 margin only one row of cells. 



28 Two rows exist in both hind wings of each of two females and in one hind 

 wing of one male. 



2^ For details see the specific description of Dimeragrion percubitale, postca, p. 269. 



30 The wing of Heteragrion flavovittatum has been figured by Xeedham {Geneal. 

 Study, pi. 53, fig. 6). 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



17. Between M4 and Cui are (a) three antenodal cells'^^ and (6) at 



the wing-margin only one row of cells. 



19. Between Cui and Cu2 at the wing-margin only one row of cells. 



20. Area posterior to Cu2 less developed, having only one row of cells. 

 216. Anal vein separating from the hind wing-margin at or distad 



to the cubito-anal cross-vein. 

 22. Anal cross-vein as stated above for Philogenia. 



Comparison of Mesagrion, Heteropodagrion, and Neuragrion 



WITH PhENACOLESTES. 



■ Of three other American genera of the legion Podagrion, Mesagrion 

 Selys, Heteropodagrion Selys and Neuragrion Karsch, each represented 

 b}^ a single species, the first from Bogota, the second from Quito, 

 the third from Ecuador without more definite locality, I have seen 

 no material. 



According to the description of de Selys (1886), Mesagrion agrees 

 with PhenacoJestes in characters above numbered 3, 7 (probably), 8, 

 12, and 16a, and differs from Phenacolestes in the following characters: 



2. Only two antenodal cross-veins. 



10. Between M2 and Rs only one row of cells. 



11. Rs separates from M1+2 distad to the subnodus. 



14. Ms separates from M1+2 a little distad to the subnodus. 

 156 (Probably one row of cells between Ms and M4). 

 17fl. Between M4 and Cm are two antenodal cells and h (probably 

 one row of cells at the wing-margin). 



18. Cubito-anal cross-veins one, situated proximad to the level of 



the first antenodal cross-vein. 



19. (Probably one row of cells between Cui and CU2). 



21. Anal vein separating from the hind margin of the wing (a) distad 



to the level of the arculus, and (b) distad to the level of the 

 cubito-anal cross-vein. 



According to de Selys' description (1886), Heteropodagrion agrees 

 with Phenacolestes in characters above numbered 7 (probably), 10, 



12. 14, and 16a, and differs from Phenacolestes in Nos. 2, 11, 156 

 (probably), 17a (and 6 probably), 18, and 21 in the same particulars as 

 Mesagrion is above stated to differ from Phenacolestes. Heteropodag- 

 rion further differs from Phenacolestes in the following characters : 



3. Postnodals 20-23. 



8. (Probably one^^^ j.^^ Qf ^ells between Mio and M2.) . 



21 Other species of Heteragrion have but two or one antenodal cell (Selys, 1886, 

 pp. 54, 5.5). 



2- Dr. Karsch, in hi.s description of Neuragrion, states that it has "zwei Schalt- 

 sectoren .... zwischen dem Nodal- und Ultranodalsector, " and, further 

 on, that it agrees in this respect with Heteropodagrion, but de Selys' description 

 of the latter is silent on this point, (although not for the same area'of Mesagrion) 

 and, I think, implies the absence of "Schaltsectoren" here. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



241 



According to Karsch's clescription,^^' Nenragrion agrees with 

 Phenacolestcs in characters above numbered 2 (but for the hind wings 

 only), 3^ 8, 10, 12, 14 (in so far as "Der Mediansector entspringt aus 

 dem Principalis vor der vom Nodus absteigenden Ader"), and 16a, 

 and differs from Phenacokstes in the following characters: 



2. Only two antenodals on the front wings. 



3. Postnodals 20-21. 



11. Rs separates from M1+2 near the first postnodal cross-vein. 

 13. Arculus distal to the normal second antenodal. 

 156. Between Ma and M4 probably only one row of cells to margin. 

 176. Between M4 and Cui probably only one row of cells to margin. 



18. Cubito-anal cross-vein apparently proximal to ("vor," not 



"von"?) the level of the first antenodal. 



19. Between Cui and Cu2 at wing-margin probably only one row of 



cells. 

 21. Anal vein separates from the hind wing-margm (a) at the level 

 of the arculus and therefore (6) distad to the level of the 

 cubito-anal cross-vein. 



Comparison of Rhipidolestes (aculeata) with Phenacolestes. 



{Rhipidolestes aculeata inhabits Formosa.) 



According to the description and figure of Dr. Ris (1912), these 

 iwo forms agree in the characters above numbered 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 

 10,=*^ 12,35 i5ff^ iQa (and perhaps 166), 18, 19, and differ in the fol- 

 lowing characters possessed by Rhipidolestes: 



2. Only two antenodals. 



3. Postnodals about 22 (front wing) and 21 (hind wing). 



4. Stigma, although having its proximal edge of about the same 



obliquity as in Phenacolestes, is shorter proximo-distally and 

 its distal edge is less oblique. 

 11. R.S sei)arates from M1+2 proximad to the subnodus at very nearly 

 three-fourths' distance from arculus to subnodus. 



13. Arculus at the second antenodal. 



14. Ms separates from M1+2 at mid-way from arculus to subnodus. 

 156. Between Ms and M4 at the wing-margin are three rows of cells. 

 17. Between M4 and Cui are (a) three antenodal cells and (6) at the 



wing-margin three rows of cells. 



20. Area posterior to Cu2 with only one row of cells. 



^* Societas Entomologica VI, p. 10.5, 1891. Neuragrion was described from a 

 single female. 



■■'^"Im Hinterfliugel drei Antecubitalqueradern, deren mittlere aui den bub- 

 costdlramii beschrankt ist." 



35 Each of the three rows in the terminal parts of these M2 and Rs areas may 

 divide itself into two rows at two or three cells' distance from the wing-margin. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May,. 



21. Anal vein separating from the hind wing-margin (a) distad to 



the level of the arculus and (b) distad to the level of the cubito- 

 anal cross- vein. 



22. Anal cross-vein at the vein descending from the distal end of the 



quadrilateral. 



Comparison of Podopteryx (roseonotatus) with 

 Phenacolestes.-^^ 



(P. roseonotatus cf type of Selys (from Aru), 1 cf 1 9 Queensland 

 determined by Mr. Herbert Campion; all three in the British 

 Museum.) 



These two genera agree in the characters above numljered 5, 7,. 

 8^37 10,38 11^39 1240, 16, 176, and 18.^^ 



These two genera differ in the characters given below; after each 

 number the difference shown by Podopteryx is stated. 



1. Nodus at one-fourth of the wing-length. 



2. More often only two antenodals.**- 



3. Postnodals 32-35. 



4. Stigma less oblique, shorter in its proximo-distal dimension in 



proportion to its antero-posterior dimension. 

 6. The veins generally, posterior to Mi, have a more pronounced 



caudal curvature as they aJDproach the hind margin of the 



wing. 

 9. M2 separates from Mi at .37 to .43 of the distance from nodus to 



stigma. 

 13. Arculus at the second antenodal.^^ 



2" I am indebted to Mr. Herbert Campion for first calling my attention to the 

 desirability of comparing this genus with Phenacolestes. 



" There are 7-8 rows at the extreme margin, however. 



^^ There are 5-7 rows at the extreme margin, however. 



^^ In both front wings of the Queensland male and in the left front wing of the 

 female Rs is united with Ms for from one-half to one cell distad of the subnodus. 



■*" There are 5-6 rows at the extreme margin, however. 



^1 The right hind wing of the type male, the right front and left hind wings 

 of the Queensland female have a second cubito-anal cross-vein proximal to the 

 normal one and nearly mid-way between the levels of the first and second ante- 

 nodals; the normal cubito-anal cross-vein is, in all, nearer to the level of the 

 second antenodal. Prof. F. Foerster has also noted (Termesz. Fiiz. XXIII, 

 p. 104, 1900) an instance of two cubito-anal cross-veins in Podopteryx. 



*- The type male has three antenodals on all four wings, the third being distal 

 to the other two and not reaching posteriorly beyond the subcosta. The two 

 Queensland examples have only two antenodals on all the wings. The type male 

 has also a subcostal cross-vein, proximal to the first antenodal, on both front 

 wings and the right hind wing; this is lacking in the Queensland specimens. 



^^ Slightly distal to the second antenodal on the two wings of the right side of 

 the Queensland male. This is an appropriate place to record certain abnormalities 

 of the type male, already mentioned by de Selys (1886); three of its wings have 

 each a single medio-cubital cross-vein which, on the right front wing, is slightly 

 proximal to the level of the normal first antenodal, but on the right hind wing 

 and left front wing is slightly distal to the normal first antenodal. On the left 

 hind wing there is merely a slight rudiment or vestige of such a cross-vein pro- 

 jecting forward as a stump from Cu slightly distad to the level of the first ante- 

 nodal. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



14. Ms separates from M1+2 at .75 to .83 of the distance from arculus 



to subnodus. 



15. Between Ms and M4 is (a) only one cross-vein proximal to the 



level of the subnodus and (6) one row of cells increasing to 



9 to 11 rows at the wing-margin. 

 17a. Between M4 and Cui are 3+ to 5 antenodal cells (sensu 



Selysii). 

 19. Between Cui and the very much angidated Cu2 is one row of cells. 

 '20. Area posterior to Cu2 with many branches from that vein and 



four (front wings) or five (hind wings) rows of cells between it 



and the wing-margin. 



21. Anal vein separates from the hind margin (a) at or slightly distad 



to the level of the arculus and therefore (6) much more distad 

 to the level of the cubito-anal cross-vein. 



22. More often no anal cross-veins."*^ 



Comparison of Argiolestes (icteromelas) with Phenacolestes. 

 (.4. icteromelas cf 9 , Victoria, Australia.) 



These two forms agree in the characters above numbered 1, 3, 5, 

 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 18. 



These two forms differ in the characters given below; after each 

 number the difference shown by the Argiolestes is stated. 



2. Only two antenodals. 



4. Proximal edge of pterostigma nearh' as in Phenacolestes, but the 



distal edge much more oblique. 

 6. Longitudinal veins posterior to Mi with a stronger caudal 



curvature as they approach the margin. 

 9. M2 separates from Mi at four-tenths to one-half of the distance 



from nodus to stigma. 

 13. Arculus at or slightly distal to the second antenodal. 

 15. Between Ms and M4 is (a) one cross-vein proximal to the level 

 of the subnodus, and (6) at the wing-margin are 8-10 (front 

 wings) or 6-8 (hind wings) rows of cells. 

 17. Between M4 and Cui are (a) three (occasionally four) antenodal 

 cells and (6) at the wing-margin are two to three rows of cells. 



19. Between Cm and Cu2 at the wing-margin is only one row of cells. 



20. Area posterior to Cu2 with about two rows of cells. 



21. Anal vein separating from the hind margin distad to the levels 



(a) of the arculus, and (6) of the cubito-anal cross-vein, 



22. Anal cross-vein as stated above for Philogenia. 



« There is an anal cross-vein proximal to the level of the distal end of the 

 quadrilateral in the right front and right hind wings of the Queensland male and 

 in the right front and left hind wings of the female. In the other eight wings, 

 the first cross-vein in this part of the wing is at or slightly distal to the vein 

 descending from the distal end of the quadrilateral and therefore should perhaps 

 not be called an anal cross-vein, but a cross-vein posterior to Cu2. It has been 

 marked Cu2a by Mr. Williamson, 1913, p. 260. 




244 proceedings of the academy of [may,. 



Comparison of Chlorolestes (fasciatus) with Phenacolestes. 



{Ch.fasciatus, 2 cf Natal, 1 cT "Pirie Bush, S. Africa, A. N. Stenning 

 98-191"; all -S^^ ji^ the British Museum.) 



These two genera agree in the characters above numl:)ered 5, 6, 

 7^46 8^9,48 10,49 156, 16, 18,5« and 22. 



These two genera differ in the characters given below; after each 

 number the difference shown by Chlorolestes is stated. 



1. Nodus at four-fifteenths ( =.27) of the wing-length. 



2. Only two antenodals.^^ 



3. Postnodals on the front wings 22-23, on the hind wings 17-20. 



4. Stigma less oblique. 



11. Rs separates one to two cells distad to the subnodus, but in all 



cases nearer to Ms than to M1+2. 



12. Between Rs and Ms is one row of cells which may increase to two 



rows at the extreme margin, symmetrically or asymmetrically. 



13. Arculus at the second antenodal. 



14. Ms separating from M1+2 at the subnodus. 



15a. Between Ms and M4 are no cross-veins proximal to the level of 

 the subnodus, the first cross-vein being very nearly at, but 

 still slightly distal to, the level of the subnodus. 



17. Between M4 and Cui are (a) two to three antenodal cells (sensu 

 Selysii) and (6) one row of cells to the wing-margin. 



19. Between Cui and Cu2 is one row of cells to the wing-margin. 



20. Area posterior to Cu2 with only one row of cells. 



21. Anal vein separating from the hind wing-margin at, or slightly 



distal to, the level of the middle of the lower side of the quadri- 

 lateral, therefore far distad (a) to the level of the arculus and 

 (6) to that of the cubito-anal cross-vein. 



Various Old World Genera and Phenacolestes. 

 The genus Wahnesia Forster, of New Guinea, has the area posterior 

 to Cu2 fairly well developed, but not to the extent that it is in Phena- 

 colestes, but as this genus differs from Phenacolestes in a number of 

 characters, such as Nos. 2, 9, 11, 13, 14, 21, 22, a more detailed 

 comparison has not been made. 



^5 These three males have a brown band for the full width of the wing from the 

 origin of M2 distad to half-way from this point to the proximal end of the stigma. 



^ Occasionally increasing to two rows at the extreme margin. 



<^ Each one of the three rows may divide, however, into two rows at the extreme 

 margin. 



*3 M2 separates from Mi at .28 to .33 of the distance from nodus to stigma. 



■'^ At the extreme margin there are 5-7 rows, however; but compare p. 229, 

 antea. 



50 The cubito-anal cross-vein is nearer to the level of the first than to that of 

 the second antenodal. 



5^ One of the Natal males has on the right hind wing an additional antenodal 

 proximal to the normal first and confined to the costal area. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



None of the following Old World genera seem to offer any close 

 approximations to Phenacolestes and therefore have not been studied 

 further in this connection: Neurolestes Selys, Nesolestes Selys, 

 Podolestes Selys and Synlestes Selys. It may be notecl, however, 

 that in Neurolestes trinervis Selys, from Old Calabar, the three 

 antenodals are so arranged that the arculus is at the third antenodal 

 on all four wings. 



General Discussion of the Value of the Venational Charac- 

 ters COMPARED IN THE PRECEDING GeNERA FOR THE 



Determination of Relationships. 



Many of the ideas which have been expressed on the changes 

 which have taken place in the venation of Odonate wings liave been 

 based on the comparative morphology of living representatives of 

 the order or on considerations of mechanical advantage. It does 

 not follow that these foundations are trustworthy or that there has 

 always been mechanical improvement in the wings. Degeneration 

 is just as probable as progressive development. The actual course 

 of phylogeny cannot be deduced from these considerations or from 

 the data of morphology. It seems therefore desirable to attempt to 

 ascertain what paleontological evidence exists affording clues to the 

 descent of these insects, by tracing the modifications which the wings 

 exhibit from the Carboniferous period down to the present time. 



The characters of Phenacolestes and other genera which have been 

 compared in the preceding pages under the numbers 1 to 22 may for 

 the most part be arranged into two groups: 



A. Those characters which are concerned with the positions of 

 the points of separation of longitudinal veins and the positions and 

 number of certain cross-veins. 



B. Those characters which are concerned with the number of rows 

 of cells existing between the longitudinal veins and their branches. 



Group A includes numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15r/, 16, 17a, 

 18, 21, and 22. 



1. The Position of the Nodus. — The Protodonata of the Carbonifer- 

 ous and the Permian possessed no nodus ; their subcosta (whose apex 

 in the Odonata usually coincides with the nodus) reached often beyond 

 mid-length of the wing, its minimal extent being to four-tenths of 

 the wing-length in Meganeurula (Handlirsch'^'-). The earliest of 



52 Foss. Ins., p. 309, Taf. XXXI, figs. 37, 38. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the known Odonata, from the Lias, have been segregated by Hand- 

 lirsch as a suborder, distinct from the existing Zygoptera and Anisop- 

 tera, under the name Anisozygoptera.^^ These insects usually 

 possessed a nodus which lay at about mid-length of the wing. Hand- 

 lirsch considers^'* that, of the recent forms, the Gomphidse and 

 Calopterygidse have unquestionably the closest relations to the 

 Anisozygoptera and are probably direct descendants thereof. The 

 Agrioninae of Selys have usually been looked on as descendants of 

 Calopterygid(or -gine)-like forms." The position of the nodus in 

 Calopteryginae and in Agrioninae, respectively, has been stated as 

 follows : 



"The position of the nodus varies in both the Calopteryginae and 

 the Agrioninae, but in general it is farther from the base of the wing 

 in the former than in the latter. Among the first-named it is probably 

 nearest the haae (one-third the wing-length) in Amphipteryx and in 

 Chalcopteryx,^^ among the second group it is farthest from the base 

 (more than one-third the wing-length) in Archilestes. No Calop- 

 teryginae have the nodus as near to the base as one-fifth the wing- 

 length, but many Agrioninae have it in that position."" 



This statement was based on conditions existing in recent forms. 

 Very little is known of fossil Zygoptera of periods earlier than the 

 Eocene"^ when Dysagrion and fragments named Podagrion abortivum 

 by Scudder appear. From the Jurassic, Handlirsch lists^^ Euphceoj)sis 

 multinervis Hagen, in fair preservation, and four possible but inde- 

 ciphera]:)le species of Pseudoeuphcea, all considered to be allied to the 

 living Epallage, Euphcea, etc., i.e., Calopteryginae of Selys. Euphce- 

 opsis multinervis had the nodus at .44 of the wing-length. Another 

 fossil of the same age is Steleopteron deichmulleri placed by Handlirsch 

 in a separate family Steleopteridae, which is considered to possess 



" L.c, p. 463, August, 1906. 



5* L.c, p. 464. 



s5 Calvert, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XX, pp. 211, 212, 1893; Ris, Zool. Jahrb., 

 Abth. Syst. Geog. Biol. Thiere, IX, p. 623, 1896. 



Cf. Needham, Genealogic Study, pp. 742, 748, 750, 1903; Handlirsch, Foss. 

 Ins., p. 472, 1906; Tillvard, Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, XXXVI, p. 600, 1912; 

 XXXVII, p. 406, 1913. 



58 In Chalcopteryx the nodus is at .37 (front wing) or .39 (hind wing) of the 

 wing-length. 



57 Calvert, Ent. Mo. Mag., (2), XIII, p. 31, 1902. 



58 Osborn, The Age of Mammals, 1910, p. 42, places the Green River shales in 

 which these genera occur as equivalent to the Upper Ypresian, i.e.. Middle Eocene. 



59 Fossile Insekten, pp. 595 et seq. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



both Epallagid (Calopterygine) and Agrionine affinities. It had the 

 nodus at only three-tenths of the wing-length.*' 



No Cretaceous Zygoptera are listed by Handlirsch. 



No ontogenetic data showing a proximal shifting in position of the 

 nodus in any Zygopteron seem to have been published. If the 

 evidence that may be drawn from the hypothetical descent of 

 Agrioninae (Selys) from Calopteryginse (Selys) be left out of con- 

 sideration, there yet appears to be good paleontological support, 

 as sketched above, for the statement of Needham^^ that shortening 

 of the subcosta and retraction of the nodus toward the base of the 

 wing is a developmental tendency away from the generalized con- 

 dition of a long subcosta and a nodus remote from the wing-base. 

 Yet it must be pointed that an upper Liassic fossil is known in 

 which the subcosta ends at only .15 of the wing-length. This is 

 Protomyrmeleon hrunonis Geinitz, for which Handlirsch has erected 

 the suborder Archi-Zygoptera and which he even suggests^^ may have 

 been a connecting link between the Protodonata and the Agrionidse 

 ( = Agrioninae Selys) . Should such an ancestry for the latter group 

 ever be demonstrated, the retraction of the nodus in living Odonata 

 could not have the same significance, as a sign of specialization, which 

 Needham has given it. The alternative suggestion of Handlirsch, 

 that Protomyrmeleon is simply an analogue to the Agrionidse (Agri- 

 oninae Selys) whose descendants have become extinct, seems at 

 present the more probable. 



2. The Number of Antenodal Cross-veins. — A priori one might expect 

 retraction of the nodus to be accompanied by a decrease in the 

 number of antenodal cross-veins. No such proportional reduction 

 exists, however. The two Calopterygine genera cited on p. 246 anted 

 as having the most retracted nodus in that whole group, Chalcopteryx 



^ Still another Jurassic (Eichstadt) fossil is the Agrion eichstdttense of Hagen, 

 listed by Handlirsch as Malmagrion eichstdttense {Foss. Ins., p. 599). Hagen 

 says of it {Paleontographica, X, p. 119, 1862): "Die Fliigel sind 21 mm. lang, 

 sehr schmal .... Der. Nodus liegt 6 mm. von der Basis. Das Geader ist 

 nicht deutlich. " His lithographic figure 5, Taf. XIV, agrees with these propor- 

 tions. 



Meunier (Ann. Soc. Ent. France, LXV, pi. 3, 1896) has given a figure labelled 

 "Agrion? eichstattense Hagen type." It is photographic and represents an 

 insect lying in the same position as that of Hagen's figure and of the same 

 natural size. From Meunier's figure the position of the nodus cannot be recog- 

 nized. In his text Meunier says, p. 131, "Agrion eichstdttense Hagen. No. 150. 

 Type de cet auteur. Paleontographica, t. x, p. 118 a 119, pi. XIV; Cassel, 

 1862." I cannot understand his expression a few lines farther in the same 

 paragraph: "Cette echantillon a beaucoup d'analogie avec celui de Hagen." 



61 Genealogic Study, p. 730. 



62 Foss. Ins., p. 472. 



17 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



and Amphipteryx, have respectively 23-26 (front wing), 21-23 (hind 

 wing), and 7-10 (front wing), 7-8 (hind wing) antenodals. The 

 paleontological evidence (with the exception of Protomyrmeleon, 

 which has but one antenodal), including Steleopteron, is favorable to 

 the view that reduction in the number of antenodals is a more recent 

 acquisition. The preceding paper by Mr. Campion^^ discusses in a 

 suggestive way the apparent evidence for such reduction afforded 

 bj' recent Agrioninae. 



3. The Number of Postnodal Cross-veins. — Prof. Needham has 

 concluded®^ that one of the developmental tendencies of the Odonata 

 is: "Antenodal and postnodal cross- veins becoming reduced in 

 numljer, stronger, more regular, sometimes matched in position or 

 differentiated among themselves." In the Zygoptera this tendency 

 is more evident in the antenodals than in the postnodals, the latter 

 never becoming so few, absolutely, or relatively to the antenodals, 

 as in certain Anisoptera, e.g., Pachydiplax (front wing: antenodals 6, 

 postnodals 6) or Miathyria simplex (front wing: antenodals 7, post- 

 nodals 5). 



In the Protodonata, owing to the great extension of the subcosta 

 toward the apex of the wing, although there was no nodus, the 

 potential postnodals were less numerous than the actual antenodals, 

 assuming that the nodus of the Odonata developed at, or but little 

 proximad to, the apex of the subcosta. AVith retraction of the nodus 

 a greater number of postnodals in the costal space became possible. 

 Numerous cases of subsequent reduction in the number doubtless 

 occurred independently of each other, but the paleontological data 

 are not sufficiently abundant to demonstrate progressive reduction 

 in any one line of descent, however likely this may appear from the 

 standpoint of mechanical advantage or of economy of vein-forming 

 material. 



4. The Pterostigma. — The stigma is an Odonate feature not pos- 

 sessed by the Protodonata. In those Anisozygoptera, which are 

 considered by Handlirsch®^ to be ancestral to the Calopterygidae, 

 viz., the Tarsophlebiidse, the stigma was fairly oblique and in one 

 species at least braced at its proximal end.^^ 



In EuphcBopsis, of the Jurassic, the stigma is not oblique; in 



^ The Antenodal Reticulation of the Wings of Agrionine Dragonfiies. This 

 volume of these Proceedings, anted, pp. 220-224. 

 ^ Genealogic Study, p. 730. 

 65 Foss. Ins., p. 468. 

 ^.Tarsophlebia eximiaoi the .Jurassic; Handlirsch, I.e., Taf. XLVII, fig. 1. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIL.^DELPHIA. 249 



Steleopteron, also of the same age, its proximal edge is not as oblique 

 as in Tarsophlebia eximia and unbraced while its distal edge is more 

 oblique. So far as one may judge from Handhrsch's figures" of 

 Liassic Odonata the stigma was not oblique, or but moderately so, 

 and unbraced; the forms in which it is preserved, however, seem to 

 have but little relationship to the insects discussed in this paper. 

 The paleontological evidence, therefore, furnishes little encouragement 

 to use the stigma as a means of determining relationships.^^ It is 

 important to notice, however, from the accompanying Table I, 

 that the position of the stigma in the wing varies iDut little in different 

 genera and species, so that it constitutes a relatively fixed landmark. 

 9,11. The Points of Separation of M2 from Mi and of Rs from M1+2. — 

 Prof. Needham has noted®^ a minor line of development within the 

 Agrioninae, "in which nodus and quadrangle become more and more 

 approximate, and the veins M2, Rs, and Ms migrate separately along 

 vein Ml from their accustomed places toward the stigma." This 

 migration may be real or apparent. Retraction of the nodus with 

 no change in position of the separation point of M2 would result in a 

 greater interval between nodus and M2 and hence an apparent 

 movement of the latter toward the stigma, but no real movement 

 in respect to the wing as a whole. (Compare Table I, Thaumato- 

 neura, Rhipidolestes and Paraphlebia zoe cf .) 



Real migration is where the separation-point of M2 is transferred 

 distad considered in relation to the total wing-length, and may or 

 may not be accompanied by a change in the position of the nodus. 

 (Compare Table I, Perilestes and Dysagrion, and Perilestes, Argio- 

 lestes icteromelas 9 and Melanagrion.) These remarks will also 

 apply to characters 11 (the separation-point of Rs, including its 

 bridge where it exists, from M1+2), 14 (the separation-point of M3 

 from M1+2), 15a (the number of cross-veins proximal to the level of 

 the subnodus between Ms and M4) and 17a (the number of antenodal 

 cells between M 4 and Cui). In the preceding pp. 228-244, the state- 

 ments for these characters have been made with reference, not to the 

 wing-length, but to certain more or less varying landmarks, as the 

 arculus, nodus, or stigma; this course has been in conformity with 

 the established custom of descriptive writers. 



" L.c, Taf. XLII. 



^ Cf. Needham, Genealogic Study, pp. 710 at top and 730 at bottom. 



«3 L.c, p. 749. 




250 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



Table I. 



Positions of Certain Wing-details in Decimal Parts of Wiyig-length for 

 Certain Odonata. 



The measurements have been made from a single wing only in each species 

 (front wing in living species). 



Genus and Species. 



(Recent, except where otherwise marked.) 





Protomyrmeleon brunonis (Lias) 



Tarsophlebia eximia (Jurassic) 



Euphseopsis multinervis (Jurassic) 



Steleopteron deichmiilleri (Jurassic) 



Dysagrion packardii (Eocene) 



Phenacolestes mirandus (Miocene) 



spmn. No. 3 



Phenacolestes mirandus (Miocene) 



spmn. Xo. 5 



Thaumatoneura inopinata cf 



" pellucida c? 



Melanagrion umbratum (Miocene) 



Rhipidolestes aculeata c? 



Argiolestes icteromelas cf 



9 



Allopodagrion nebulosum cf 



Lithagrion hyalinum (Miocene) 



Philogenia carriUica cf 



9 



" terraba cf 



Paraphlebia zoe cf 



" 9 



" abrogata cf 



Dimeragrion percubitale cf 



Heteragrion tricellulare cf 



Perilestes fragilis? cf 



Summary : 



Maximum 



Minimum 



Range 



.2§[.2§ 



.15, 



.45 .87 



.44 



.30 



.39 .87 



.83 



.33 



.34 

 .18 

 .18 



.29 .83 



,29 .93 

 .30 



.28! -89 



.29 .90 



.34 .88 



.23 .91 



.24 .90 



.25! .91 



.19 .93 



.19 .95 



.20 .92 



.25 .81 



.23 .91 



.28 .88 



<^ 



^--^''=*-,' 



'■^ 





g S 



.48; .21 (None)! 71.53 



.47 .38! .14 .33 .15 



.52 



CO o* 



5 : 



o S 



c a 



,2:s 

 Is 



^ 2 



13 .29 .18 



.14; .26 



.08 .17 



.08! .16 



.16 .25 



.18 .25 



.171 -28 



.16 .28 



.181 .27; 



.20: .28! 



.16 .23 



.16 .24 



.16 .23 



.12 .20 



.13 .20 



.14 .22 



.16 .25 



.16 .25 



.21 .36 



.49 .21 .36 

 .19 .08 .15 

 .30 .13 .21 



.02 



.08 .15 .13 

 .lO! .23 .15 .16 

 .15 .30 .17 .07 



.10 



.11 

 .06 

 .06 

 .15 

 .20 

 .18 

 .18 

 .16 



.20 

 .12 

 .12 

 .27 

 .22 

 .22 

 .21 

 .21 

 .24 .23 

 .20 .18 

 .21 .20 

 .20 .19 

 .19 .17 

 .19 .18 

 .22, .21 

 .19 .18 

 .20 .15 

 .25 ^2 



™ The number in parenthesis at the top of each vertical column is that under 

 which that character has been treated throughout this paper, 

 ^1 In Protomyrmeleon brunonis Ms separates from Rs. 

 " A not developed as a vein separate from the hind margin. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



The paleontological evidence with reference to the separation- 

 points of iVIi, Rs and AI3 is that the Liassic fossils (with the exception 

 of Protomyrmekon) had M2 separating at the subnodus, and Rs 

 (including its bridge) and Ms proximad to the nodus;" none of these 

 fossils which have the nodal region preserved are considered by 

 Handlirsch to be ancestral to Zygoptera, however. For many of 

 the Jurassic remains^^ the same statement as to the positions of these 

 separation-points holds true, including Tarsophlehia eximia and 

 EuphcEopsis multinervis; Steleopteron had Rs and Ms arising well 

 proximad to the nodus, M2 only a short distance distad to the nodus; 

 Palceophlebia synlestoides, which Brauer, Redtenbacher and Gangl- 

 bauer assigned to the legion Podagrion of Selys^^ but which Hand- 

 lirsch regards as an Anisozygopter of doubtful position,'^^ is imperfectly 

 preserved, but seems to have had the origins of both Rs and M2 

 distinctly distal to the nodus, while that of Ms was probabh' proximal 

 to the nodus. Paleophlebia came from the Dogger, or lower Jurassic, 

 of Siberia, and is therefore older than the other Jurassic fossils just 

 referred to, all of which are Malm or Upper Jura. The paleontological 

 evidence is consequently not altogether satisfactory and at least 

 admits of the possibility of the separation-points of these three veins 

 having fluctuated proximad or distad from time to time. Prof. 

 Needham's statement as to their migration, quoted above, has not 

 that evidence from other sources than comparative morphology 

 which is necessary to enable us to use these characters with perfect 

 confidence. 



13. The position of the arculus has been relatively stable, so that there 

 is little reason for attaching any special phylogenetic value to it. 



14. The Point of Separation of il/s frotn M1+2. — (See the discussion 

 above under Nos. 9, 11.) 



15a. The Number of Cross-veins, Proximal to the Level of the Sub- 

 nodus, between Ms and Mi. — This character is closely dependent on 

 No. 14, for the more proximal is the separation-point of Ms from Mi+2, 

 the greater is the area available for these cross-veins. In the genera 

 here compared the greatest number of cross-veins, two, is found in 

 Phenacolestes, Lithagrion, and Melanagrion, all of which have a more 

 proximal origin of Ms. The reverse case is not necessarily true, as 

 Philogenia, Allopodagrion, and Dysagrion, with an equally proximal 



73 Handlirsch, Foss. Ins., Taf. XLII. 



^1 L.c, Taf. XLVII. 



75 Mem. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersb., (7), XXXVI, p. 6, 1889. 



'« Foss. Ins., p. 584. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



origin of Ms (see Table I), have but one such cross-vein. Tarsophlehia 

 eximia had five in its hind wing (these veins are not preserved in the 

 front wing) and Steleopteron had two. 



16. The Obliquity of the Quadrilateral. — The shape of the quadri- 

 lateral becomes more oblique with the greater divergence of its 

 proximal and distal sides. Prof. Neeclham has assumed" that a 

 nearly rectangular quadrilateral, in which opposite sides are parallel 

 to each other, is the more primitive form and that from it at least 

 two kinds of oblique quadrilaterals have arisen. There seems to be 

 no published ontogenetic evidence in favor of this view and the only 

 paleontological evidence not contradicting it is limited to that 

 puzzling Liassic form, Protomyrmeleon, in which, if Handlirsch's 

 interpretation of the venation be correct,^^ R and M are still distinct 

 from the base distad, and there is no trace of a beginning arculus. 



On the other hand, all the Jurassic fossils, which are not clearly 

 Anisoptera, show an oblique quadrilateral with its posterior distal 

 angle acute.'^* This holds true not only for those fossils referred by 

 Handlirsch to the Zj^goptera like Euphceopsis and Steleopteron, or 

 for forms regarded by him as ancestral to Zygoptera, as Tarsophlebia 

 (and including a Liassic fragment, T. westwoodi^) , but also for other 

 Anisozygoptera not apparently forefathers of the Zygoptera, as 

 Stenophlebia, Isophlebia, and Anisophlebia . Dysagrion of the Eocene 

 had an oblique quadrilateral, and in fact not one of the published 

 descriptions and figures of Tertiary Zygoptera listed byHandlirsch^^ 

 shows a rectangular quadrilateral; all havje it oblique. 



It therefore seems necessary to regard the oblique quadrilateral 

 as the more primitive and the rectangular as a later appearance. 



''' Genealogic Study, p. 717, fig. 11, p. 731. See also Williamson, 1913, p. 2.59, 

 and figs. 1 and 2 on p. 260. 



'sFoss. /«s., Taf. XLII, fig. 14. 



'^L.c, Taf. XLVII. Hagen, indeed (Paleontographica, X, Taf. VIII, f. 8), 

 shows the quadrilateral of the Jurassic Euphcea longiventris as rectangular. In 

 his description, p. 128, he says, "Noch undeutlicher ist der tibrige Theil des 

 Geaders .... das Viereck ist gleichfalls undeutlich," and he gives no details 

 of its shape. Meunier's photographic reproductions (Arch. Mus. Teyler, 2, VI, 

 pi. XXVI, figs. 81, 82, cf. p. 127), not of Hagen's tj-pe, but of other specimens in 

 the Munich Museum, show the shape of the quadrilateral as indecipherable. 

 Handlirsch (Fossil Ins., p. 580) places Euphcea longiventris Hagen as a synonym 

 of Tarsophlehia eximia Hagen and remarks, "Bezuglich Hagens Euphtea longi- 

 nentris [longiventris] habe ich zu bemerken, dass der von ihm 1. 13 f. 8 abgebildete 

 Flugel allerdings von jenem der Tarsophlebien wesentlich abweicht. Aus der 

 Beschreibung ergibt sich jedoch, dass die basale Partie des Flugels an dem 

 Fossile kaum zu entziffern ist, so dass wir diese Reconstrucktion als werthlos 

 betrachten konnen." 



8» Pass. Ins., Taf. XLII, fig. 6. 



81 L.c, pp. 896-899, 1357. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



17a. The Number of Antenodal Cells between Mi and Cm. — This 

 character is in general dependent on the degree of retraction of the 

 nodus, as the more the nodus approaches the base of the wing the 

 smaller is the area available for these cells. This correlation, although 

 not absolute and exact in the genera here compared, holds in a rough 

 way. We may therefore regard reduction in the number of antenodal 

 cells as a specialization. There appear to have been 12 on the front 

 wing, 13 on the hind wing of Tarsophlebia eximia (counting only a 

 single row — there are two rows in part of this area) , almost three in 

 Steleopteron. A reduction in the number of antenodal cells may occur 

 independently of retraction of the nodus, however, by the greater 

 development of the quadrilateral distad. (Compare Table I, 

 Thaumatoneura and Paraphlebia, also pp. 233, 237 anted.) ■ 



18. The Number of Cubito-anal Cross-veins. — These veins are usually 

 small and weak in the Zygoptera, and they have not been preserved 

 well in the fossils, so that few data on their development in point of 

 geologic time are available. Perhaps the same kind of evidence 

 which Mr. Campion has secured^^ fQj. ^jie reduction of the antenodals 

 might be obtained for these cross-veins also. It is conceivable that 

 the ancestral Zygopteron might have had a moderate number and 

 that some of its descendants might have acquired more, others fewer. 

 While recognizing the paucity of evidence, I am inclined to view 

 reduction in their number as specialization, in harmony with the 

 reduction of antenodals. 



21. Petiolation of the Wing. — When the anal vein (A) separates 

 from the hind margin of the wing at some distance from the base, a 

 stalk-like appearance of the wing-base is produced, especially on the 

 hind margin, to which the term "petiolee" was long ago applied by 

 de Selys. Petiolation involves a reduction of the anal area and is 

 specifically mentioned by Prof. Needham^ as a fundamental develop- 

 mental tendency in the Agrionidse ( = Agrionin£e Selys). It is not 

 visible m Protomyrmeleon (Lias); in Tarsophlebia, Stenophlebia , 

 Isophlebia, or Anisophlebia (Jura). It seems to have been well- 

 marked in Steleopteron, while the shape of the wing-outline certainly 

 suggests it in Euphceopsis, although here A may have remained dis- 

 tinct from the hind margin.^* It seems justifiable to assume that the 

 farther distad petiolation has progressed, the more specialized the 

 insect. 



82 These Proceedings, p. 223, antea. 



« Genealogic Study, p. 748. Cf. Ris, 1912, p. 45; Tillyard, 1913, p. 444. 



«* Handlii-sch, Foss. Ins., Taf. XLVII. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



22. The Number of Anal Cross-veins. — Progressive petiolation 

 reduces the area available for anal cross-veins, but not always to the 

 extent one might expect. Thus of American genera discussed in this 

 paper which have the petiolation extending distad to the arculus, 

 Paraphlehia has 2, PhUogenia 0, Dimeragrion 1 or 0, Lithagrion 

 anal cross-veins. Calopteryginae (Selys) have on the whole more 

 anal cross-veins than do the Agrioninse Selys. If the latter are 

 descendants of some of the former and if Tarsophlehia stands in an 

 ancestral position to the Zygoptera, then we may consider reduc- 

 tion in number of the anal cross-veins as a specialization. Proto- 

 myrmeleon, Tarsophlehia, Isophlebia, and Anisophlebia each had not 

 less than four anal cross-veins, some of them many more. In 

 Euphceopsis they are not preserved, in Steleopteron they appear to 

 have been present only distad to the level of the outer (distal) end 

 of the quadrilateral. 



B. The characters included under group B on p. 245, ajited, are 

 Nos. 7, 8, 10, 12, 156, 176, 19, and 20. In the comparisons made in 

 the early pages of this paper, these characters have been stated in 

 terms of numbers of rows of cells found between the branches of the 

 great veins. They may be stated also by specifying the number of 

 interposed, or supplementary, sectors in each area, and have usually 

 been so stated in the taxonomic literature. It is easy to translate 

 one method of statement into the other, as one row of cells implies 

 no supplementary sector, two rows of cells one supplementary sector, 

 three rows two sectors, etc. The individual variation to which they 

 are subject increases as the hind margin of the wing is approached. 



The Protodonate wing of the Carboniferous and the Permian was 

 richly veined with many supplementary sectors. So also were the 

 Odonate wdngs of the Lias, excepting Protomyrmeleon; if Handlirsch's 

 interpretation of its venation be correct,*^ there was but one row of 

 cells between each of the branches of the main veins, except between 

 Rs and Ms (two rows increasing to three), Ms and M4 (two rows), 

 M4 and Cui (two rows), and posterior to A (two rows). 



Turning to the Odonata of the Jura,*" we find richly veined wings 

 in the Anisozygoptera {Tarsophlehia, Stenophlebia, Isophlebia, 

 Anisophlebia), and in Euphceopsis; Steleopteron has one row of cells 

 between Mi and Mio, Mio and M2, M2 and Rs, INIs and M4, and be- 

 tween the veins posterior to Cui, three rows between Rs and Ms, two 

 rows between M* and Cui. 



85 Foss. Ins., Taf. XLII, fig. 14. 



8« Handlirsch, Foss. Ins., Taf. XLVII. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



If Handlirsch be correct in his conjecture^^ that the Protodonata 

 have descended from such genera of the Dictyoneuridse (Palseodic- 

 tyoptera) as Stenodictya, the dense venation of the former evolved 

 from the equally dense, but more irregular, network of the latter. 

 The Odonata then carried reduction in the network to a greater 

 degree than in the Protodonata and reduction in the rows of cells 

 of the areas now under discussion would, therefore; be a specializa- 

 tion. We must then recognize that as ^arly as the Lias such reduc- 

 tion was carried in Protomyrmeleon to a greater degree than is shown 

 by many living genera and a similar statement must be made for 

 Steleopteron of the Jura. That any of these reduced venations were 

 capable of giving rise to more exuberantly veined descendants would 

 be denied by many phylogenists, but the actual proof of such a 

 denial is not at hand for the Odonata. We have, therefore, only the 

 general tendency to guide us when we assume that reduction in density 

 of venation in the characters of group B means specialization. On 

 the other hand, we must suppose that such richly veined forms 

 of the present day as Thaumatoneura, Calopterijx, Thorc, and Neuro- 

 themis have either preserved the dense venation of, perhaps Mesozoic, 

 ancestors or that they have acquired their density by hypertrophy 

 in the course of generations.*^ Here, as elsewhere in this discussion, 

 the possibility of further light from ontogenetic studies is very 

 evident. 



Summarizing the results of this discussion, we conclude that 

 later phylogenetic status is denoted by the following conditions in 

 the characters of the genera compared in this paper : 



1. Retraction of the nodus toward the wing-base. 



2. Reduction in the number of antenodals. 

 (3. Reduction in the number of postnodals.) 



(7. Reduction in the number of rows of cells l^etween ]\Ii and 



Mia.) 



(8. Reduction in the number of rows of cells between Mm and M2.) 



9. More distal position of origin of M2. 



(10. Reduction in the number of rows of cells between M2 and Rs.) 

 11. More distal position of origin of Rs. 



(12. Reduction in the number of rows of cells between Rs and Ms.) 

 14. More distal position of origin of Ms. 



15a. Reduction in number of cross-veins proximal to the subnodus 

 between Ms and M4. 



8' L.c, p. 305. 



88 The latter alternative is apparently that held by Dr. Ris for the analogous 

 cases of Pantala and Tramea. 1912, p. 46. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maj', 



(156. Reduction in the number of rows of cells between Ms and M4.) 



16. Rectangular quadrilateral. 



17a. Reduction in the number of antenodal cells between M4 and 



Cui. 

 (176. Reduction in the number of rows of cells between Mi and Cui.) 

 (18. Reduction in the number of cubito-anal cross-veins.) 

 (19. Reduction in the number of rows of cells between Cui and Cu2.) 

 (20. Reduction in the number of rows of cells posterior to Cu2.) 

 21. More distal petiolation of the wing. 

 (22. Reduction in the number of anal cross-veins.) 



I have endeavored to indicate that the paleontological evidence 

 is not as strong for some of these statements, by enclosing them in 

 parentheses, as for those left unenclosed. There is no ontogenetic 

 evidence as yet. 



These conclusions and the data on which they are based merely 

 permit us to determine the probable course, or direction, of change 

 in certain features of the venation. They do not enable us to decide 

 as to the relative order in which the different features changed, 

 whether, for example in the ancestors of living Podagrionine genera, 

 Ms assumed a position at or distad to the subnodus at an earlier, or 

 at a later, period than the reduction of the number of rows of cells 

 in the area posterior to Cu2 occurred, although, given a character, 

 we can say which genera should come first and which should follow 

 in our phylogenetic list in respect to the modifications of that charac- 

 ter. In the imperfection of our knowledge, we are largely guided, 

 therefore, by motives of convenience in selecting the primary charac- 

 ters on which a classification of the members of this group is to be 

 based. .Having regard to all these considerations, the following 

 scheme for a phylogenetic grouping of the genera of Selys' legion 

 Podagrion is presented. 



Synopsis of Venational Characters of Genera of the Legion 

 Podagrion. 



Legion Podagrion Selys 1862. 



IMs separating from M1+2 nearer to the nodus than to the arculus. 

 Pterostigma normal, i.e., consisting of but a single cell. Cu2 present. 

 Supplementarj' f^ectors present, at least between Mia and M2, except 

 in Perilestes. 



A. — Ms separating from M1+2 proximad to the subnodus, at six- 

 tenths or more of the distance from arculus to subnodus (half-way 

 in Rhipidolestes) . 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



B. — Antenodals more than two on all the A\-ings, or on the hind wings 

 only (Neuragrion). (See also the parenthesis following rubric 

 BB.) 

 C. — Area posterior to Cu2 with three or more rows of cells, A 

 separating from the hind margin proximad to the level of the 

 arculus, Rs l^eginning at the subnodus. 

 D. — Quadrilateral oblique at distal end. 

 E. — Supplementary sectors between M* and Cui absent; between 

 :\Iio and :\I2 five, between Rs and Ma eight rows of cells, 



respectively Dysagrion Scudder, 1878 (Eocene, Wyoming). 



EE.— Supplementary sectors between M4 and Cui three or four; 

 between Mia and M2 three, between Rs and Ms three rows 



of cells respectively 



Phenacolestes Cockerell, 1906 (Miocene, Colorado). 

 DD. — Quadrilateral almost rectangular at both proximal and distal 



ends; many supplementary sectors from Mi to hind margin 



Thaumatoneura :\I'Lachlan, 1897 (Central America). 

 €C.— Area posterior to Cu2 with only one row of cells, A separating 

 from hind margin at or distad to the level of the arculus. 

 F. — Us beginning at subnodus, supplementary sectors from 



Mia to ]\l4, two or more cubito-anal cross-veins 



Neurolestes Selys, 1882 (West Africa). 

 FF.— Rs beginning distad to the subnodus, supplementary 



sectors from Mia to Ma, one cubito-anal cross-vein 



Neuragrion Karsch, 1891 (Ecuador). 



BB. — Antenodals two only (more than two have been noted in 



occasional specimens of Podopteryx, a genus included under 



this rubric). 



G. — Rs beginning proximad to the subnodus. 



H. — Area posterior to Cu2 with two rows of cells, A separating 



from the hind margin proximad to the level of the 



arculus, supplementary sectors from Mia to M4 



Melanagrion Cockerell, 1907 (Miocene, Colorado). 



HH.— Area posterior to Cu2 with one row of cells, A separating 



from hind margin distad to the level of the arculus, 



supplementarv sectors from Mia to Cu2 



Rhipidolestes Ris, 1912 (Formosa). 

 GG. — Rs beginning at the subnodus. 



J.— Area posterior to Cu2 with 4-5 rows of cells, A separating 

 from the hmd margin at or distad to the level of the 



arculus, supplementary sectors from Mia to Cui 



Podopteryx Selj's, 1871 (Aru, Queensland). 

 JJ. — Area posterior to Cu2 with 2 rows of cells, otherwise as 



in Podopteryx 



Argiolestes Selys, 1862, sens, strict.^^ (Australian region). 



89 As here limited includes only the groups IC and 2 of Selys' Revision of 1886, 

 p. 81. See the remarks of Martin on the variability of the points of departure 

 of Ms and R^ in Argiolestes, Boll. Soc. Ent. Ital, Ix, p. 201, 1909. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May,^ 



JJJ. — Area posterior to Cu2 with one row of cells. 

 K.— Old World Genera.9« 

 L. — A separating from the hind margin proximad to 

 the level of the arculus (some Podolestes fall here — 

 see below under 00). 

 M. — Supplementary sectors from Mi to Ms and between 



M4 and Cu2, none between Ms and M4 



Rhinagrion nom. n. for Amphilestes 



Selys, 1862^1 (Malaysia). 



MM. — Supplementary sectors (two each) from Mio to Rs, 



one between Ms and M4 



Mesopodagrion McLachlan, 1896 (Thibet, West China). 



LL. — A separating from the hind margin distad to the level 



of the arculus. 



N. — Quadrilateral with its anterior side more than half 



as long as its posterior side, Cui only slightly 



arched forward on leaving the quadrilateral. 



O. — Arculus distinctly distal to the second antenodal, 



supplementary sectors (two each) from Mia to 



M4 Nesolestes Selys, 1891 (Madagascar). 



00. — Arculus at, or but slightly distal to, the second 

 antenodal, supplementary sectors (one or two 



each) from Mm to M4 



Podolestes Selys, 1862 (Labuan, Sumatra). 

 NN. — Quadrilateral with its anterior side half, or less 

 than half, as long as the posterior side; Cm 

 strongly arched forward on leaving the quadri- 

 lateral, supplementary sectors (one each) from 



Ml or Mia to Rs or Ms 



Synlestes Selys, 1869 (Australia). 

 KK. — New World Genera. 



P. — A separating from the hind margin proximad to 



the level of the arculus, .supplementary sectors 



from Mia to Rs and between Ms and M4. 



Q. — Area Mia to M2 with three I'ows of cells, two 



unbroken supplementary sectors between M2 



and Rs Megapodagrion Selys, 1885, 



sens, strict. (Brazil). 



QQ. — Area Mia to M2 with two rows of cells, one 



zigzag supplementary sector between M2 and 



Rs Allopodagrion Foerster, 1910 



(Northern South America). 



3" Although the first two subdivisions, K and KK, under rubric JJJ are geo- 

 graphical, not structural, for convenience' sake, the structural features under 

 K and KK are sufficiently detailed to enable the identification of a form of 

 unknown habitat to be made. 



81 The name Amphilestes Selys is preoccupied by Amphilestes Owen (Encyc. 

 Brit., 8th edit., XVII, p. 157, 1859) for a fossil mammal. Rhinagrion is suggested 

 by de Selys' emphasis of one of the characters of his Amphilestes as " Tete robuste, 

 k ^pistome saillant." 




.1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



PP. — A separating from the hind margin distad to the 

 level of the arculus. 

 R,_Nodus more nearly at one-third of the wing- 

 length, no supplementary sectors between 



Rs and Ms Lithagrion Scudder, 1882 



(Miocene, Colorado). 

 I^I^__Nodus more nearly at one-fourth of the wing- 

 length, at least two supplementary sectors 

 l^etween Rs and Ms. (Supplementary sectors 



from Mia to M4 or Cui) 



Philogenia Selys, 1862, except 

 P. terraha Calv. (Costa Rica to Brazil). 

 <;;GG.— Rs beginning distad to the subnodus, A separating from 

 the hind margin distad to the level of the arculus. 



g_ — Area posterior to Cu2 with usually two or 

 more rows of cells, supplementary sectors 

 from Ml to Cu2 or to hind margin, two 

 cubito-anal cross-veins, the second under the 



quadrilateral 



Paraphlehia hyalina Brauer, 1871 (Mexico). 

 gg^_Area posterior to Cu2 with one row of cells, 

 no supplementary sectors posterior to M4. 

 T — Supplementary sectors from Mia to M4, 

 one cubito-anal cross-vein. 

 Xj._Antenodal cells between M4 and Cui two 

 or three (otherwise as above under RR) 



Philogenia terraha^^ Calvert, 1907 



(Costa Rica). 



UU.— Antenodal cells between M4 and Cui one; 



quadrilateral very long, reaching to the 



level of the nodus 



AUolestes Selys, 1869 (Seychelles). 



TT. — Supplementary sectors from Mia to Ms 



(often none between M2 and Rs), usually 



more than one cubito-anal cross-vein^ 



Dimeragrion new genus (Guiana) .^^ 



'P'P'p^ — Supplementary sectors between M2 and R« 



and (two long ones) between Rs and Ms, 



one cubito-anal cross-vein 



Heteropodagrion Selys, 1885 (Ecuador). 



32 In spite of the fact that Philogenia terraba faUs here, instead of under RR 

 with the rest of the genus Philogenia, the only difference which separates it is the 

 slight one of the more distal position of the separation-point of Rs from Mi +2, 

 and I think this does not entitle terraba to a different generic name. 



9' The genus Ncitragrion Karsch was described from a single female and has 

 been placed under rubric FF above. If additional specimens should prove to 

 have only two antenodals, the genus would fall under TT and would differ from 

 Dimeragrion presumably, at least, in possessing only one cubito-anal cross-vem. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



TTTT. — Supplementary sector one between ^Iia and 

 M2, one cubito-anal cross-vein, quadri- 

 lateral not reaching the level of the nodus 



Protolestes Foerster, 1899 (Madagascar). 

 AA. — Ma separating from M1+2 at the subnodus, only two antenodals^ 

 Rs beginning distad to subnodus. 



Y. — Area posterior to Cu2 with usually two 



or more^* rows of cells, A separating from 



the hind margin distad to the level of the 



arculus. 



W. — Supplementary sectors from Mi to Cu2 



or to hind margin; two cubito-anal 



cross-veins, the second under the Cjuadri- 



lateral Paraphlebia Hagen, 1861 



(Mexico, Guatemala). 



WW.- — Supplementary sectors from Mia to 



Cui or to hind margin,' one cubito-anal 



cross-vein Wahnesia Foerster, 1900 



(New Guinea)^* 



VV.— Area posterior to Cu2 with one row of 



cells, one cubito-anal cross-vein. 



X. — Supplementary sectors from Mio to 



M4, A separating from hind margin at 



or distad to arculus 



' Chlorolestes Selys, 1862 (South Africa). 



XX. — Supplementary sectors confined to 



area Mia to M2, A separating from hind 



margin proximad to, at, or distad to^ 



the level of the arculus 



Heteragrion Selys, 1862 



(Mexico to Argentina) .^^ 



AAA. — Ms separating from M1+2 distad to the subnodus, only two 



antenodals, Rs beginning distad to the subnodus, A separating 



from the hind margin distad to the level of the arculus (or not 



developed as separate from the hind margin in Perilesfes). 



Y. — xVrea posterior to Cu2 with two or 

 three rows of cells. 

 Z. — Supplementary sectors from Mi to 

 Cu2 or to hind margin, other charac- 

 ters as above under W 



Paraphlebia (see W). 



9* Both sexes of Paraphlebia duodecima Calv. have only one row of cells posterior 

 to Cu2 on the hind wings, but two or more rows on the front wings. 



95 This is group IB of Argiolestes in Selys' Revision of 1886, p. 81. 



56 In his Synopsis of 1862, p. 31, de Selys suggested the separation of H. petiola- 

 hini as a separate subgenus under the name of Oxystigma, chiefly distinguished 

 from Heteragrion by the long quadrilateral reaching almost to the level of the 

 nodus, the pterostigma extremely, pointed proximally and only one antenodal 

 cell (between Mi and Cui), but he did not adopt this suggestion in his Revision, 

 of 1886. The name Qxysligma does not appear in Kirby's Catalogue. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



ZZ. — Supplementary sectors from Mia to 



Cui 



Meiacjrion n. gen.^^ (New Guinea). 

 YY. — Area posterior to Cu2 with one row of 

 cells, no supplementary sector pos- 

 terior to M3. 

 a. — Quadrilateral not touching the hind 

 margin of the wing, supplementary 

 sectors between ^Mia and ]M2 and 



between Rs and AIs 



Mesagrion Selys, 1885 (Colombia). 

 aa. — Quadrilateral touching the hind 

 margin of the wing, no supple- 

 mentary sectors except a rudiment 

 between ]\I2 and Rs or between Rs 

 and Ma, arculus well distal to the 



second antenodal 



Perilestes Belys, 1862 

 (Costa Rica, Guiana, Brazil). 



In view of the olDservations on the imperfection of our knowledge, 

 made on p. 256, in introducing the preceding Synopsis, it seems 

 useful to offer also this 



Outline of an Alternative Grouping of the Genera of the 

 Legion Podagrion. 



A. — Area posterior to Cu2 with more than one row of cells. 



B. — A separating from the hind margin proximad to the level 



of the arculus, Ms separating from Mi-r2 proximad to the 



subnodus. 



C. — Rs beginning proximad to the subnodus, two antenodals, 



supplementary sectors Mia to M4, two rows of cells 



posterior to Cu2 Melanagrion. 



CC. — Rs beginning at the subnodus, more than two ante- 

 nodals Dysagrion, Phenacokstes, Thatimatoneura. 



BB. — A separating from the hind margin at, or distad to, the level 

 of the arculus, normally two antenodals. 

 D. — Ms separating from Mi+o proximad to the subnodus. 

 E. — Rs beginning at the sulinodus . Podopterijx,Argiolestes. 



EE. — Rs beginning distad to the subnodus 



Paraphlebia hyalina. 

 DD. — Ms separating from M1+2 at, or distad to, the level of 



the subnodus Paraphlebia, Wahnesia, Metagrion. 



AA. — Area posterior to Cu2 with onlj- one row of cells. 



F. — A separating from the hind margin proximad to 

 the level of the arculus. 



3^ Type: Argiolestes postnodalis Selys. This genus is group lA of Selys' 

 Revision of 1886, p. 81. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



G. — Ms separating from M1+2 proximad to the 



subnodus, Rs at the subnodus 



Rhinagrion, Mesopodagrion, Megapodagrion, 



Allopodagrion, Podolestes. 



GG. — Ms separating from Mi +2 at the subnodus, R« 



distad to the subnodus Heteragrion. 



FF. — A separating from the hind margin at, or distad to, 

 the level of the arculus (or not developed as a vein 

 distinct from the hind margin in Perilestes). 

 H. — Ms separating from M1+2 proximad to the 

 subnodus. 



J. — Rs beginning proximad to subnodus 



Rhipidolestes. 



JJ. — Rs beginning at the subnodus 



Neurolestes (3 antenodals), Lithagrion, 

 Philogenia, Nesolestes, Podolestes, Synlestes. 



JJJ. — Rs beginning distad to the subnodus 



Neuragrion (3 antenodals on hind wings), 



Philogenia terraha, Allolestes, Dimeragrion, 



Heteropodagrion, Protolestes. 



HH. — Ms separating from M1+2 at the subnodus 



Chlorolestes, Heteragrion. 



HHH. — Ms separating from M1+2 distad to the 



subnodus Mesagrion, Perilestes. 



The preceding Synopsis, pp. 256-261, will enable one using this 

 Alternative Grouping to distinguish from each other the genera 

 listed under each final rubric. 



A comparison of Synopsis and Alternative Grouping will show 

 that, in spite of a number of differences in the order in which the 

 genera appear in the two schemes, both begin with and both end 

 with nearly the same forms, which may therefore be regarded as, 

 respectively, the oldest and the youngest members, phylogenetically, 

 of the legion Podagrion. 



The Relationships of Phenacolestes. 



// the conclusions reached on pp. 255-256 he correct, 

 Dysagrion of the Eocene of Wyoming, the oldest member of the 

 legion Podagrion now known, cannot have been an ancestor of any 

 of the three known Miocene genera from Colorado, Phenacolestes, 

 Lithagrion, and Melanagrion, because it lacked supplementary sectors 

 between Mi and Cui. Melanagrion indeed possesses one more 

 primitive feature than is found in any of the other three of these 

 extinct genera, viz., Rs begins proximad to the subnodus. 



Phenacolestes has preserved more primitive characters than has 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



its contemporary Lithagrion, as may be seen bj- a comparison of 

 those numbered 2, (4?), 12, 156, 17a and h, 19, 20, 21a and h, and 22, 

 on pp. 227 and 232, anted. 



Phenacolestes is more primitive than its contemporary Melanagrion 

 in characters Nos. 1, 2, 12, 156, 17a and 6, 19, 20, 216 and 22, but less 

 primitive in characters Nos. 3, (4?), and 11. See pp. 227 and 231, 

 anted. 



Phenacolestes may have been the ancestor of the New World genera 

 Megapodagrion, Allopodagrion, and PerUestes and of the African 

 Chlorolestes, unless it shall be shown that the less oblique pterostigma 

 possessed by all four of these living genera cannot have been acquired 

 from the form which existed in Phenacolestes. Of these four, Mega- 

 podagrion is most like Phenacolestes. But Megapodagrion and the 

 other three genera may equally well have descended from Melana- 

 grion, with which they agree more closely in the shape of the ptero- 

 stigma, although Melanagrion is figured as having no anal cross-veins, 

 a not very weighty objection in this connection. 



Phenacolestes might be considered ancestral to Heteropodagrion 

 and Heteragrion, were it not that these two have, in at least some 

 species, a greater number of postnodals. 



Phenacolestes was apparently- not the ancestor of: 



Neuragrion, which has more postnodals, and the cubito-anal cross- 

 vein in a different position, i.e., proximal to the level of the first 

 antenodal ; 



Mesagrion, for the second reason just given for Neuragrion; 



Thaumatoneura, Paraphlehia, or Dimeragrion, which have more 

 than one cubito-anal cross-vein and denser venation in the wing 

 generally {Thaumatoneura), or between Cui and Cu2 {Paraphlehia), 

 or as shown in the greater numbers of postnodals (all three) ; 



Philogenia, which has more postnodals and rather denser venation 

 between Mia and M2; 



Rhipidolestes, which has Ms separating from M1+2 more proximad, 

 Rs beginning proximad to subnodus, and more postnodals; 



Podopterijx, which has a denser venation between Ma and M4 and 

 posterior to Cu2, and more postnodals; 



Argiolestes, which has a denser venation between Ms and M4. 



Comparisons with genera of the Old World having more reduced 

 venations are useless, as the equally possible descent from other 

 extinct genera than Phenacolestes arises again. 



Whether Megapodagrion and its near ally Allopodagrion are to 

 be looked on as descendants of Phenacolestes or of Melanagrion, 

 18 




264* PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



it is of interest to point out that they are not in their present geo- 

 graphical distribution the nearest Podagrionine genera to Colorado, 

 as none of their species are known from a more northern locality 

 than Colombia ("Bogota")- In the intervening territory are found 

 Thaumatoneura, Paraphlehia, Philogenia, Heteragrion, and Perilestes, 

 and of these four genera the most northern known representatives 

 are Paraphlebia zoe and hyalina and Heteragrion chrysops of the 

 State of Vera Cruz, Mexico.^* 



Professor Cockerell has suggested in correspondence that although 

 the genera allied to Phenacolestes are now Neotropical, they are of 

 northern origin or had northern ancestors. Considering how wide- 

 spread are the living genera of the legion Podagrion, it seems incon- 

 ceivable that their forerunners in the Miocene did not inhabit many 

 other regions than Colorado, The fact that we know them only 

 from Florissant seems to the writer very negative and insufficient 

 evidence on which to found a conjecture as to the place of origin of 

 this group. 



On THE Subfamily Dysagrionin^ Cockerell. 



Preceding his original description of Phenacolestes mirandus, 

 Professor Cockerell proposes a new subfamily of Agrionidse {sensu 

 strictiori) , under the name Dysagrioninse, which he defines as follows.^' 



"Antenodals 2 Subfamily Agrioninae. 



Antenodals 4 or more Subfamily Dysagrioninse." 



The number of antenodals is hardly a character of sufficient impor- 

 tance by itself to establish a subfamily, owing to its variability, and at 

 least three genera come between Professor Cockerell's two divisions. 

 Thus in Thaumatoneura M'Lachn., the number of antenodals varies 

 from 3 to 5, and Neurolestes Selys of Africa and Neuragrion Karsch 

 of Ecuador have three antenodals.^*'" It is not without bearing on 

 the present topic that all three of these living genera, as well as 

 Phenacolestes, are of Selys' legion Podagrion, but if any new taxo- 

 nomic arrangement, whether of "subfamilies" or of "legions," is to be 

 made, the distinctive characters must be formulated in some other 

 terms than those which Professor Cockerell has employed. The 

 tenability of the subfamily Dysagrioninse has also been discussed 



98 Calvert, Biol. Centr. Amer. Neur., pp. 60, 61, 64, 1901. 

 M Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., XXIV, p. 60. 



«» Cf. Calvert, Ent. Mo. Mag., XXXVIII [2-XIII], pp. 29-32, 1902, where 

 also the characters of the Agrioninae are discussed. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



by Mr. Campion in his preceding paper on "The Antenodal Reticu- 

 lation of the wings of Agrionine Dragonflies."^"^ 



Additional Data on Dimeragrion n. gen. 



In addition to the venational characters which have been given 

 on pp. 238-239, anted, the following are generic features from other 

 parts of the body: 



Second antennal joint one and one-half times as long as the first, 

 the third longer than the first two together. 



Ligula (median labial lobe) bilobed in its distal third, apices 

 tapering but not very acute, separated by an interval whose width 

 is about equal to its depth. 



Tibial spines longer (often 2-3 times longer) than the intervals 

 separating them, 7-8 in the anterior (outer) row, and 8-9 in the pos- 

 terior (inner) row of the third tibia. 



The generic name proposed is in allusion to the fact that there are 

 two supplementary sectors onl}^ in two areas of the "vv^ng, viz., those 

 between Mio and M2 and between Rs and Ms. 



Type, Dimeragrion percubitale n. sp. 

 Dimeragrion percubitale n. sp. PI. XIV, figs. 6-S. 



Adult cf . — Vertex, genae, and rear of the head black with some 

 metallic green reflection not very brilliant. A yellowish streak 

 between each antenna and the lateral ocellus of the same side. 

 Traces of pruinosity on the rear of the head. Frons, nasus, and upper 

 half of rhinarium dark metallic violet, well-defined from the black 

 above and the pale yellow below, which latter forms a transverse 

 band on the lower half of the rhinarium and basal half of the labrum, 

 this band having almost parallel edges. Distal half of the labrum 

 and the mandibles dark metallic violet. Submentum, mentum, and 

 bases of the maxillse luteous, the distal parts of these two pairs of 

 appendages blackish. Antennae black. 



Prothorax black with a slight metallic green reflection. 



Mesepisterna and mesepimera metallic green, low^er part (more 

 than half) of the former and the third fourth (counting from above) 

 of the latter pruinose, or the latter without pruinosity. Metepi- 

 sternum metallic green or metallic violet, a narrow pale (luteous ?) 

 stripe separating this color from that of the mesepimeron, or this pale 

 stripe absent (still older males). Metepimeron and metasternum 

 pale brown or luteous, some pruinosity on the latter. 



"1 These Proceedings, anted, pp. 220-224. 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Legs blackish, some pruinosity on coxse, trochanters, and femora. 



Wings uncolored, the venation described on p. 238. Stigma dark 

 brown, surmounting 2+ to 4 cells, its proximal side very oblique, 

 so that one or more postnodals are placed between it and the costa, 

 and at least twice as long as the distal side. The relative lengths of 

 the four sides of the stigma, beginning with the longest, are : posterior, 

 proximal, anterior, distal. No brace-vein, i.e., no thickened cross- 

 vein in prolongation caudad of the proximal side. 



Dorsum of abdominal segments 1 and 2 dark metallic green, of 

 3-10 black, except that in the middle of 3-5 or 6 the black is replaced 

 by ill-defined dark brown. Sides of 1 and 2, a transverse basal ring 

 on 3, sides inferiorly of 3-7, pale brown or luteous. The dorsal black 

 of 3-6 is continued ventrad at the posterior ends of these segments, 

 forming a transverse apical band on each. A transverse basal 

 yellow ring on 4-7. Intersegmental articulations of 7-10 luteous, 

 otherwise 8-10 are wholly black, 9 being also pruinose on the dorsum. 

 Pruinose traces are also visible on the intersegmental articulation of 

 1-2 and on the sides and sternites of most of the segments. Hind 

 margin of 10 entire. 



Superior appendages longer than 10, a little shorter than 9, black, 

 partly pruinose. Viewed in profile, the axis of each appendage is 

 parallel to that of the abdomen, but the superior margin is strongly 

 declined in the proximal fourth, less so in the remaining three-fourths ; 

 the inferior margin in the distal three-fourths of the appendage is 

 produced ventrad into a strongly convex lamella which terminates 

 at the blunt apex of the appendage ; this lamella reaches its maximum 

 at one-half to two-thirds of the appendage-length. On the dorsal 

 surface of the appendage at the extreme base is a short transverse 

 ridge, which in profile view appears as a tooth. In dorsal view, each 

 superior appendage shows its superior margin as almost straight and 

 decreasing in width throughout the proximal three-fourths, while the 

 distal fourth is strongly curved toward its fellow of the opposite side; 

 the ventral lamella is inclined inward and downward (mesad and 

 ventrad) , the short transverse basal ridge is at the mesal margin. 



Inferior appendages about seven-eighths as long as the superiors, 

 black. Each one, in profile view, conical, tapering more rapidly on 

 the superior margin beyond two-fifths its length, so that at this point 

 this margin shows an angle; distal third curved strongly upward 

 (dorsad) and terminating in a slender very acute apex. In ventral 

 view, each appendage is applied against its fellow for the proximal 

 three-fifths of its length, beyond which it is continued along the outer 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



(ectal) edge as a blunt cylindrical process one-half to one-third as 

 wide as the proximal part of the appendage; the abrupt contraction 

 from the proximal part to the distal process is made by a right-angled 

 "shoulder." 



I have not been able to detect any differences either in these 

 appendages or in the genitalia of the second abdominal segment of 

 the males from the four different localities. 



Young d^ . — Differs from the adult cf in the absence of pruinosity, 

 in the paler hue of the yellow areas generally, in having pale yellow 

 where the adult has luteous; metallic violet on the head paler, 

 bases of the mandibles and a spot between each one and the adjacent 

 eye yellow, metallic violet or metallic brown instead of metallic green 

 on the thorax, an indistinct narrow yellowish stripe on each side of 

 the mid-dorsal thoracic carina, a bright yellow line on the humeral 

 suture, coxse and trochanters pale yellow, pterostigma paler brown 

 with a pale luteous line just within each bounding vein, dorsum of 

 abdominal segments 1 and 2 metallic blue, of 3-7 dark brown, darker 

 at the hind end of each where it is continued ventrad as in the adult, 

 most of the ventral surfaces of 7-10 pale j-ellow, except at the hind 

 ends of 7 and 8 which are blackish, proximal half of the inferior 

 appendages yellowish ventrally. 



9 . Differs from the adult cf as follows : Dark color on the nasus, 

 rhinarium and labrum shining black instead of metallic violet. Sides 

 of the first two (confluent with the transverse yellow band below), 

 bases of the mandibles and an oblique band running from each eye 

 upward (dorsad) and inward (mesad) on to the anterior surface of 

 the frons to a variable distance (not correlated with amount of 

 pruinosity on body), bright yellow. A narrow stripe on the humeral 

 suture, a wider stripe on the first lateral suture and on the mete- 

 pisternum bordering the second suture, yellowish. Pruinosity on 

 the thorax in slight quantity on the sterna and metapleuron, or on 

 the sterna only. Coxae and trochanters yellow. Pterostigma as 

 described for the young male, pruinose on the under surface. No 

 pruinosity (or but a trace of it) on the dorsal side of abdominal 

 segment 9, but present in slight traces on the sides inferiorly of 1-8 

 and in somewhat greater amount on the sternites of 1-8. Hind 

 margin of 10 with a narrow mid-dorsal notch about one-fourth as 

 deep as the length of the segment, from which runs a low median 

 carina to the anterior end of the segment; ventral surface of this 

 segment pale brown. Abdominal appendages about twice as long 

 as segment 10, not as long as segment 9, straight, slender, tapering 

 to an acute apex, black. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Genital valves ( = external gonapophyses of 9) reaching almost, 

 but not quite, to the level of the hind end of 10, brownish, ventral 

 margin spinulose, the palps slender, reaching beyond the level of the 

 hind end of 10, but not of that of the anal tubercle ( = 11), darker 

 in color. 



Of the two females from Tumatumari, one lacks all pruinosity 

 on the body and the pterostigmata, the other has a small quantity 

 on the rear of the head only; they appear to be the most immature 

 of their sex in the present material. 



Dimensions. — Abdomen cf 26,5-34, 9 24,5-25,5; hind wing 

 cf 21,5-25, 9 20-22.5 mm. 



Habitat. — British Guiana: Wismar, January 30 and 31, three 

 males, three females; Rockstone, February 1, six males, one female; 

 Tumatumari, February 5, one male, February 7, one female, February 

 11, one male, one female; Potoro Landing, February 10, three males. 

 Collectors, L. A, and E, B, Williamson and B. J. Rainey, 1912. 



Type. — A male from Wismar, January 30, abdomen 30.5, hind 

 wing 22,5 mm, long, in the collection of Mr, E. B, Williamson, of 

 Bluffton, Ind, The other material in the cohections of Mr. WiUiam- 

 son and of the author. 



Habits. — The Tumatumari female of February 11, the youngest 

 of her sex of the present material bears this label by Mr. E, B, Wil- 

 liamson: "taken at top of trail 2| mile past Tiger Creek trail on 

 twig." A male from Potoro Landing, the smallest of his sex in all 

 the present lot has this note by the same collector: "On ends of 

 twigs wings expanded usually in shade," 



Mr, Williamson has kindly furnished the following notes with 

 reference to the habits: "At Wismar back from the river, across 

 the railroad tracks and south of the eminence on which stands the 

 manager's (Mr. Croombie's) house, is a brushy swampy woods, 

 traversed by numerous small streams which head in small ravines 

 with abrupt and rocky ends or pockets. These streams at the 

 season I was there were small and frequently disappeared and hence 

 were followed with some difficult}^ in their upper course. All were 

 short and were intermingled in the lower (east) end of the woods 

 where the ground was swampy and the footing treacherous. The 

 Agrionines were found usually near the upper ends of the streams 

 below the rocky pockets. 



"At Rockstone the railroad track was followed back toward Wismar 

 where two or three streams, small at this season, cross the track at 

 intervals, flowing in a northerly direction. These streams were 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



269 



followed in the direction of their flow till each was lost in the woods 

 and it was impossible to trace its course further. 



"The habits of the Agrionines at both locations (Wismar and 

 Rockstone) were identical. They rested on the extreme tips of dead 

 twigs, usually two or three feet from the ground, with outspread 

 wings and rigidly horizontal bodies. The color and the position 

 assumed gave the impression of alertness and self-reliance. The 

 flight was swift, and because of light-conditions also, was difficult 

 to follow. At rest they were fairly conspicuous. When one flew at 

 my approach I stood still and began examining the possible destina- 

 tions in the direction of its flight, and thus located it." 



Variations. — The smallest males are from Potoro Landing, followed 

 in order by those from Tumatumari, Wismar and Rockstone. The 

 order of the females by size from the smallest is not the same, owing 

 perhaps to there being but a single specimen of this sex from 

 Rockstone, viz.: Tumatumari, Rockstone, Wismar, 



The most remarkable variation in this species is in the number 

 of cubito-anal cross-veins, which varies from 1 to 4 on the front wings 

 and from 1 to 5 on the hind. Of the twenty specimens studied only 

 three (all males) have the same number on all four wings, and of 

 these three two have 2 cubito-anal cross-veins and the third three. 

 Two other specimens (females) agree with each other in the number 

 and arrangement of these veins on their four wings, leaving fifteen 

 out of the twenty no two of which are exactly alike in this feature when 

 all four wings are considered. The remarkable nature of this varia- 

 tion will be appreciated when it is recalled that in the great majority 

 of the Agrioninse of de Selys there is but a single cubito-anal cross- 

 vein on each wing. The conditions found in the present material are 

 summarized in the following 



Table II. 



Showing the Number of Wings of Twenty Individuals of Dimeragrion 

 peraihitale having the Specified Numbers of Cubito-anal Cross-veins. 



(The numbers in parentheses are those of the wings in which the most prox- 

 imal of these cross-veins is situated proximad to the level of the first antenodal.) 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



It is rather curious, although at present insignificant, that the 

 abnormality of having a cubito-anal cross-vein situated proximad 

 to the level of the first antenodal should be more frequent on the 

 left side in both the front and the hind wings. 



The specific name proposed, percuhitale, is in allusion to the 

 unusual numbers of cubito-anal cross-veins. 



Bibliography. 



(Isolated descriptions of genera are not quoted here when they are included in 

 Selys 1886 or Kirby 1890). 



Brauer, Redtenbacher, u. Ganglbauer. 1889. Fossile Insekten aus der 

 Juraformation Ost-Sibii'iens. Mem. Acad. Imp. Sci. Si. Petersb., (7), 

 XXXVI, No. 15. (Paleophlebia synlestoides, p. 6.) 



Calvert, P. P. 1893. Catalogue of the Odonata of the Vicinity of Philadel- 

 phia, with an Introduction to the Study of this Group. Trans. Amer. Ent. 

 Soc, XX, pp. 152a-272. (Relationship of the Odonate Groups to each 

 other, pp. 211-214.) 



1902. On the Systematic Position of Thaumatoneiira inopinata McLachlan 



(Order Odonata), with some remarks on the classification of the Suborder 

 Zygoptera. Ent. Mo. Mag., (2) XIII, pp. 29-32. 



1901-1908. Biologia Centrali-Americana. Neuroptera. Odonata. Lon- 

 don. (Mexican and Central American genera and species of the legion Poda- 

 grion, pp. 58-65, 1901; 354-357, 1907; 409, 1908.) 



Campion, H. 1913. The Antenodal Reticulation of the Wings of Agrionine 



Dragonfiies. These Proceedings, antea, pp. 220-224. 

 CocKERELL, T. D. A. 1907. Fossil Dragonfiies from Florissant, Colorado. 



Bull. Amer. Mns. Nat. Hist., XXIII, pp. 133-139. (Lithagrion hyalinum 



Scud., redescribed and figured, p. 137; Melanagrion n. gen. for Lithagrion 



umbratum Scud., p. 138.) 



1908a. Fossil Insects from Florissant, Colorado. Bull, cit., XXIV, 



pp. 59-69. (Original description of Phenacolestes, p. 60.) 



. 19086. Descriptions of Tertiary Insects. Atner. Journ. Sci., XXVI, 



pp. 69-75. (Additional on Lithagrion hyalimim and Phenacolestes, pp. 

 69, 75.) 



1908c. Some Results of the Florissant Expedition of 1908. Amer. Nat., 



XLII, pp. 569-581. {Phenacolestes, pp. 574-5.) 



FoERSTER, F. 1899o. Contributions a la Faune Odonatologique Indo-Australe. 

 Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XLIII, pp. 63-72. (Variations in Podopteryx, p. 70.) 



18996. Zur Odonaten-Fauna von Madagascar. Ent. Nachr., XXV, 



pp. 186-191. (African-Madagassian genera of legion Podagrion and Pro- 

 tolestes, n. gen., pp. 186-188.) 



1900. Odonaten aus Neu-Guinea. Termeszet. Fiizetek, XXIII, pp. 



81-108. (Identification table of Indo-Australian genera of legion Podagrion, 

 p. 103; Argiolestes Selys, p. 104, Wahnesia, n. gen., p. 105.) 



1909. Beitrage zu den Gattungen und Arten der Libellen. Jahrb. 



Nassau. Ver. Naturk. Wiesbaden, 62, pp. 213-235. (Relationship of Thau- 

 matoneura, p. 214.) 



1910. Beitrage, etc. II. Wien. Ent. Zeitg., XXIX, pp. 51-56. (Mega- 



podagrion Selys, p. 53, Allopodagrion, n. gen., p. 54.) 



Hagen, H. a. 1862. Ueber die Neuropteren aus dem lithographischen Schiefer 

 in Bayern. Meyer's Paleontogr., X, 2te Lief., pp. 96-145. 



Handlirsch, a. 1906-1908. Die Fossile Insekten. Leipzig, W. Engelmann. 



Karsch, F. 1891. Neue Odonaten von Ecuador. Sodetas Entom., VI, pp. 

 105, 113, 121-2. (Nevragrion, n. gen., p. 105.) 



Kirby, W. F. 1890. A Synonymic Catalogue of Neuroptera Odonata. London : 

 Gurney & Jackson. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



Martin, R. 1909. Odonates de la Nouvelle Guinee Britannique. Bull. Soc. 



Entom. Hal., LX, pp. 195-207. (Note on the groups of Argiolestes, p. 201.) 

 M'Lachlan, R. 1896. On Odonata from the Province of Szechuen, in Western 



China, and from Moupin, in Eastern Thibet. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (6), 



XVII, pp. 364-374. {Mesopodagrion, n. gen., p. 372.) 



1897. Thaumatoneura inopinata, a new genus and species of Caloptery- 



ginaj. E7it. Mo. Mag., (2), VIII, pp. 130, 131. 



Meunier, F. 1896. Les Agrionides Fossiles des Musees de Munich et de 

 Haarlem. Ann. Soc. Ent. France, 1896, pp. 30-35, 3 pis. 



1898. Les Insectes des Temps Secondau-es. Revue critique des fossiles 



du Musee paleontologique de Munich. Arch. Mus. Teyler, (2), VI, pp. 

 85-149, 10 pis. 



MuTTKowsKi, R. A. 1910. Catalogue of the Odonata of North America. 



Bull. Publ. Mus. City Milwaukee, I. 

 Needham, J. G. 1903. A Genealogic Study of Dragonfly Wing Venation. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, pp. 703-764. 24 pis. 



1911. Descriptions of Dragonfly Nymphs of the Subfamily Calopterygin£e 



(Odonata). Ent. Neivs, XXII, pp. i45-154. 2 pis. (Remark on more 

 primitive Calopteryginae, p. 153.) 



OsBORN, H. F. 1910. The Age of Mammals in Europe, Asia and North America. 

 New York. 



Ris, F. 1896. Untersuchungen iiber die Gestalt des Kaumagens bei den 

 Libellen und ihren Larven. Zool. Jahrb., Abth. Syst. Geog. Biol., IX, 

 pp. 596-624. (Relationships of Odonata to each other, pp. 621-624.) 



1912. Neue Libellen von Formosa, Siidchina, Tonldn und den 



Phillippinen. Supplem. Entom. Deutsch. Ent. Mus., I, pp. 44-85. 3 pis. 

 (Primitive venation in Zvgoptera, pp. 44-47; Rhipidolestes, n. gen., p. 57.) 



ScuDDER, S. H. 1890. The"^ Tertiary Insects of North America. Rep. U. S. 



Geol. SuTLK Terr., XIII. 

 DE Selys-Longchamps, E. 1862. Synopsis des Agrionines. 3me Legion. — 



Podagrion. Bull. Acad. Roy. Belg., (2), XIV, pp. 5—44. 



1886. Revision du Synopsis des Agrionines. Mem. Couron. Acad. Roy. 



Belg., XXXVIII, pp. i-iv, 1-233. 



1891. Causeries Odonatologiques No. 5. Deux nouveaux groupes 



d'Agrionines de Madagascar: Nesolestes et Nesocnemis. Comptes Rendus, 

 Soc. Ent. Belg., (IV), 23, pp. cccxcviii-cccciii. 



Till YARD, R. J. 1911. On the genus Cordulephya. Proc. Linn. Soc. New South 

 Wales, XXXVI, pp. 388-422, 2 pis. (General relationship of Odonate 

 groups, pp. 410, 411.) 



1912. On the genus Diphlebia, with descriptions of new species and life- 

 histories. Proc. cit., XXXVI, pp. 584-604. 2 pis. (Relationships of 

 groups of Zygoptera, pp. 600-603.) 



1913. On some New and Rare AustraUan Agrionidae (Odonata). Proc. 



cit., XXXVII, pp. 404-479. 6 pis. (Classification of Zygoptera, pp. 



404-407.) 

 Williamson, E. B. 1913. The Medio-anal Link in Agrionina? (Odonata). 



Ent. News, XXIV, pp. 258-261. 



The following contain descriptions and studies of Protodonata published since 

 Handlirsch's great resume. Die Fossile Insekten. 



Handlirsch, a. 1910. Ueber die Insektenreste aus der Trias Frankens. 

 Abh. Naturh. Ges. NUrnberg, XVIII, 4 pp. (On Handlirschia gelasii Reis 

 =Reisia gelasii.) 



1911. New Paleozoic Insects from the Vicinity of Mazon Creek, Illinois. 



Amer. Journ. Sci., XXXI, pp. 297-377. {Paralogopsis, n. gen., p. 374.) 



Meunier, F. 1909a. Nouveaux Insectes du Stephanien de Commentry (Cin- 

 quieme note). Bull. Mus. Nation. Hist. Nat., 1909, No. 1, pp. 37-40 (Gilsonia 

 n. gen. p. 37). 



19096. Nouvelles Recherches sur les Insectes du Terrain Houiller de 



Commentry (Allier). Ann. Paleontol. (Paris), IV, pp. 12.5-152, 5 pis. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Reis, O. M. 1909. Handlirschia Gelasii nov. gen. et spec, aus dem Schaumkalk 

 Frankens. Ab/id. Bayer. Akad. Wiss., Math.-Phys. Klasse XXIII, pp. 

 659-694, 1 pi. ' ^^ 



Sellards, E. H. 1906. Types of Permian Insects. Amer. Journ. ScL, XXII, 

 pp. 249-258. (Tupus, n. gen.) 



Explanation of Plate XIV. 



Figs. 1-5. — Phenacolestes mirandus Cockerell. Florissant, Colorado. From 

 photographs. These are the specimens described antea, pp. 225-230. 



Fig. 6. — Dimeragrion percubitale n. gen., n. sp. Wings of male, Rockstone, British 

 Guiana, February 1, 1912. (From photograph by H. A. Walters.) 



Figs. 7, 8. — D. percubitale, apex of abdomen of male type, Wismar, British Guiana, 

 January 30, 1912. 7, dorsal view; 8, right side profile view. Camera draw- 

 ings, Zeiss oc. 2, objective A with lower lens off. Scale alongside fig. 7 is 

 that of one millimeter in tenths, for figures 7 and 8 only. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



A CONTRIBUTION TO THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE ORTHOPTERA OF 

 ARGENTINA. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN, 



The present paper is based entirely on collections made by Mr. 

 P. Jorgensen, of Buenos Aires. These collections were sent either 

 direct to us for study or through Mr. Esben Petersen, of Silkeborg, 

 Denmark, to whose interest we are obligated for much of the material 

 treated in the paper. In addition to thanking these gentlemen for 

 the opportunity to study the present collections, we also wish, on 

 behalf of the Academy, to thank Mr. Jorgensen for the very important 

 additions received from the collection, by far the greater portion of 

 which, including all the types and unique specimens, remain in the 

 Academy series. 



The entire series, collected over the greater portion of northern 

 and north-central Argentina, comprises ten hundred and twenty 

 specimens, representing one hundred and sixty -two species, of which 

 three genera and twenty species are new to science. 



The general regions represented in the collections are: 



First. Territory of the Misiones. The extreme northeastern 

 extension of Argentina extending between the Parana and Uruguay 

 Rivers, which respectively separate it from Paraguay and Brazil. 

 In consequence of its f>osition it has a far greater proportion of tropical 

 types than any other portion or portions of Argentina. 



Second. Province of Corrientes. Southwest of the Misiones and 

 between the same rivers, but of a less tropical character. 



Third. Province of Jujuy. The extreme northwestern province, 

 forming part of the Bolivian boundary. This is a region charac- 

 terized by a number of types of Orthoptera peculiar to it or shared 

 with Bolivia or the province of Salta to the south and east. 



Fourth. Province of Salta. This province is next south of Jujuy, 

 which it also bounds on the east, the latter portion forming part of 

 the Chaco region. 



Fifth. Province of Tucuman, South of Salta and at the east base 

 of the Andean uplift, part of which is within the province. 



Sixth. Provinces of San Juan and Mendoza. These are in the 

 •west-central part of the country, forming a considerable part of the 

 Chilean frontier and including conditions from the plains to the 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MajT^ 



summits of the Andes. Mr. Jorgensen has kindly furnished us with 

 the following information on these two provinces, which he has 

 examined with considerable care. "Provincia de Mendoza is 

 unusually dry and exceedingly hot (extreme heat 42° C). Rain 

 falls as a rule in local showers, although occasionally there are heavy 

 rainfalls with terrific thunderstorms. As a rule, the sky is cloudless,, 

 and the temperature, even in summer, often falls to a considerable 

 degree at night. In the district around the town of Mendoza it 

 freezes not rarely at night during the 'winter' months (May-Septem- 

 ber), although even at this elevation to see a layer of snow in the 

 morning is rare, and in any event, even in the coldest months, snow 

 never has the opportunity of laying, for it can be quite hot towards 

 midday. Only high up and in the front range of the Cordillera de 

 Mendoza the snow lays for long periods in the very coldest months. 

 In the lowlands, or rather the flat lower lying districts, east of the 

 Cordilleras, the ground is composed of alluvial strata of an ash-gray, 

 finely powdered clay soil, which bears a rich bush vegetation, the 

 gray color of which, together with its adaptation to the climate, points 

 to an ancient desert vegetation. A large proportion of the plants,, 

 quite apart from the cacti, are thorny and spiky, the Spanish name 

 'Espinales' thus suiting the district admirably. The grass fruits 

 are often prickly and also in a single instance mechanical flycatchers.. 

 Many of the plants here are very aromatic or contain quantities of 

 resin. At the transition point between the lowlands and the Cor- 

 dilleras, the ground is more or less rising, here and there swamps are 

 to be found, often strongly impregnated with saltpeter, and nearly 

 everywhere are to be found stones (rolling stones), or even pieces of 

 rock, mixed with the earth. The front ranges of the Cordilleras,, 

 which rise to the west of the city of Mendoza, are partly solid rock 

 and partly products of disintegration. These are covered with the- 

 very same plants as the lowland (Covillea divaricata, Gourhcea decor- 

 ticans, Prosopis campestris and alpataco, Acacia furcata, Senecia 

 mendocinus, Suoeda divaricata, etc.). Localities: Mendoza (767 

 meters above the sea), Chacras de Coria (936 meters), nine kilometers 

 more southerly, both at the foot of the first range, Precordillera de 

 Mendoza; Punta del Agua and Blanco Encalada (1,068 meters) in 

 the mountains and railroad stations on the Ferro Carril Transandina ;, 

 Potrerillos (1,368 meters) and San Ignacio (1,325 meters), railroad 

 stations in a large valley in the second range, Cerro Negro, on the 

 Rio Mendoza; Pedregal (696 meters), seventeen kilometers east of 

 Mendoza, swamps; La Paz (504 meters), forty-eight kilometers 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



.southeast of Mendoza on the Rio Tunuyan. The Provincia de San 

 Juan is similar to Mendoza, but hotter and drier." 



Seventh. Province of San Luis. East of Mendoza and, according 

 to Mr. Jorgensen, of the same nature and condition as around 

 Mendoza. 



Eighth. Province of Cordoba. East of San Luis and forming a 

 considerable part of the great ''Pampa. " 



Ninth. Vicinit}^ of Buenos Aires, The immediate vicinity of the 

 t3apital, a historic zoological locality, is represented by quite a number 

 of specimens. 



The total number of species represented aside from the new forms 

 is one hundred and forty-two, of which fifty-six are here recorded 

 from Argentina for the first time. Of these fifty-six, forty-nine are 

 recorded only from the Misiones. Of the total of one hundred and 

 sixty-two species, one hundred and sixteen are recorded from the 

 Misicrnes. These figures give some idea of the richness of the Misiones 

 territory in Orthoptera. 



A tabulation of the distribution of the entire list of species shows, 

 among other things, the following interesting features: 



One hundred and sixteen species recorded from the Misiones. 



Twenty species recorded from the Misiones and west of, but not 

 south of, the same. 



Forty-seven species recorded from Brazil, Paraguay and the 

 Misiones alone in Argentina. 



Thirty-two species recorded from the Misiones and the Pampan 

 region, also northward, but not westward. 



Seventeen species recorded from Buenos Aires westward to 

 Mendoza. (Typical pampan and plains forms.) 



One species recorded only from Jujuy and the Pampas. 



Three species recorded only from the Chaco, Jujuy, and Tucuman. 



The distribution of all of the species treated has been given in the 

 paper, and, aside from the new ones, the forms here recorded from 

 Argentina for the first time bear an asterisk before their names. 



Family BLATTIDiB. 



Subfamily PSEUDOMOPIN^. 



* Fseudomops negleota Shelf ord. 



1906. P[seudomops] neglecta Shelford, Trans. Ent. Soc. London, 1906, p. 256. 

 [Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.] 



Misiones. December 20. (No. 4.) ''Common on flowers." 

 Two males, one female. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May^ 



While fully agreeing in every other way with the description of the 

 species, which was based on a single female, the males are found to 

 lack the pale annulus on the antennae, which is marked in the single 

 female. 



The measurements of the specimens are as follows: 



Length of body 8.6 mm. 8.5 mm. 9. mm. 



Length of pronotum 3. " 3. " 3.2 " 



Greatest width of pronotum 3.2 " 3.3 " 3.6 " 



Length of tegmen 8. " 8.2 " 8. 



This species is now known from southern Brazil (Rio Grande do 

 Sul), Uruguay (Montevideo; Shelf ord), eastern Paraguay (Puerto 

 Bertoni),^ and northern Argentina. 



Ischnoptera rufa Brunner. 



1865. I[schnoptera] rufa Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 131, PI. Ill, figs. 

 13a-c. [Brazil; Porto Rico.] 



Misiones. December 2, 1910. (No. 5.) Two males. 

 We have no previous Argentine records of this species aside from 

 that from San Lorenzo, Jujuy (Giglio-Tos), 



Ischnoptera marginata Brunner. 



1865. I[schnoptera] marginata Brunner, ibid., p. 132. [Brazil.] 



Misiones. December 20, 1910. (No. 8.) One female. 



This specimen is perfectly typical of the species. The nearest 

 definite localities from which the species has been recorded are 

 Sapucay and Villa Rica, Paraguay, and Salta, Argentina. 



Ischnoptera brasiliensis Brunner. 



1865. I[schnoptera] brasiliensis Brunner, ibid., p. 131, pi. Ill, figs. 12a-c. 

 [Brazil.] 



Misiones. December, 1910. Two males. 



Pedregal, Mendoza. December 14, 1906. One male. 



The Pedregal specimen shows no differences from the Misiones 

 individuals. The species has also been recorded from San Lorenzo,^ 

 Jujuy, Oran, Salta and San Pablo, Tucuman (Giglio-Tos), Rio Negro, 

 Sierra de Corrumalan, Carmen de Patagones (Berg), and Bahia 

 Blanca (Saussure), Argentina; Sapucay, Paraguay (Caudell and 

 Rehn), and Uruguay (Berg). 



1 The acquisition of the present material enables us to identify the broken 

 specimen of this genus from Puerto Bertoni recorded by us as Pseudomops sp. 

 {Ent. News, XXII, p. 247) as this species. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



Blattella germanica (Linnaeus). 



1767. [Blatta] germanica Linn£Eus, Syst. Nat., 12th ed., p. 688. [Denmark.] 

 Misiones. February 4, 1910. (No. 3.) One female. 



Subfamily NYCTIBORINJE. 

 *Nyctibora limbata (Thunberg). 



"1826. Blatta limbata Thunberg, Mem. I'Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersb., X, 

 p. 277." 



Misiones. January, 1911. (No. 9.) One male. 



We have followed Shelford in using limbata for the species usually 

 called sericea Burmeister. The set of the Memoires in the Academy 

 library unfortunately lacks volume ten, so we are unable to verify 

 this reference. The present specimen has but four tarsal joints in 

 the right caudal tarsus and another male from Puerto Bertoni, 

 Paraguay, has the same true of the left caudal tarsus. 



This species has been recorded by the author from Puerto Bertoni, 

 Paraguay, but it is here reported from Argentina for the first time. 



Subfamily EPILAMPRIN.E. 

 Rhicnoda jorgenseni n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Misiones, Argentina. December 2, 1910. (P. Jor- 

 gensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,210.] 



Closely resembling R. rugosa Brunner, from the Oriental region, 

 but differing in the proportionately broader abdomen, the broader 

 and less produced supra-anal plate, which is also much more shallowly 

 divided, and in the smaller size. 



Size medium; form greatly depressed; surface of the dorsum 

 coriaceous. Head with only the extreme cephalic portion of the 

 vertex visible beyond the pronotum; facial portion strongly depressed 

 and flattened; interocular space equal to twice the depth of the eye, 

 rugulose, the occipital outline moderately arcuate, very narrowly 

 rounded in section; antennae subequal to half the length of the body. 

 Pronotum semicircular in form, the cephalic and lateral margins 

 regularly arcuate, caudal margin subtruncate with the faintest 

 possible very low broad median projection, lateral angles very 

 narrowly rounded. Caudal margins of the meso- and metanotum 

 arcuato-emarginate, that of the metanotum more decidedly so than 

 that of the mesonotum, the median projection of the metanotum 

 more decided than that of the pronotum or the mesonotum, Teg- 

 mina equal to about two-thirds of the length of the pronotum, 

 lateral, squamiform, the basal width of the same but little less than 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the length, external margin slightly arcuate, internal margin more 



decidedly arcuate, the external margin thick- 



^^-^7'''''^^"^ ened and projecting distad of the internal 



/ / \ \ margin at the apex as a minute point; apex of 



I aH \ Tm^ \ ^^^ tegmina slightly surpassing the margin of 



1 'I/- ^y'-XT* . ^Q mesonotum. No >vings present. Abdo- 



Jjr:r<iZ:tzi:>^x men slightly broader than the thoracic seg- 



IJh^- ^^'. "■',""" ' -"'^'^^ >4>\ ments; caudal margins of the segments with 



(// V".' ■ '.'.'.'.'.' '■ !tt^:t^ y low, regularly placed ridges, such as are found 



i V --•■'lU"'7j^ "t in other species of this genus; caudo-lateral 



^— ^ \ angles of the segments acutely produced; 



Fig. l.—Rhicnoda jor- supra-anal plate transverse, the length con- 



gensenin. sp. Dor- tained about twice in the greatest width, 



(Xl|.) the margin regularly arcuate with a shallow 



median rectangulate emargination ; cerci no 



more than half the length of the supra-anal plate, broad fusiform, 



depressed; subgenital plate broad, the general outline of the plate 



arcuate with a shallow emargination by each cercus. Cephalic 



femora with the ventro-cephalic margin with four median spines, 



the ventro-caudal margin with three spines on the distal half; 



median femora with five spines ventro-cephalad, one of which is 



apical, ventro-caudal margin with the same number, but with the 



spines more regularly placed; caudal femora with the ventro-cephalic 



margin with five spines similarly disposed to those on the same 



margin of the median femora, caudal margin with spines but one or 



none; caudal tarsi missing in the type specimen. 



General color above Vandyke brown, the tegmina and the lateral 

 portions of the metanotum prout's brown, the abdominal ridges 

 weakly lined with seal brown. Ventral surface chiefly tawny-olive, 

 the abdomen broadly but indefinitely bordered with seal brown, the 

 paler portions with numerous spots of the same color, these spots 

 being placed on very low and not very distinct tubercles, a narrow 

 medio-longitudinal line of seal brown indicated on the venter of the 

 abdomen. Head ventrad to below the eyes seal brown; eyes and 

 antennae clove brown. Limbs becoming burnt umber distad. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 22 . 5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 6 . 



Greatest width of pronotum 11 . " 



Length of tegmen 4 . " 



■Greatest width of abdomen 14 . " 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



The type of this species is unique. It is quite singular that the 

 present species shows no close relationship to any of the previously 

 known American forms of this peculiar genus, while its close affinity 

 to the Oriental rugosa is immediately apparent when the two are 

 examined. 



We take pleasure in dedicating this interesting species to the 

 collector, Mr. P. Jorgensen, to whom we are indebted for the oppor- 

 tunity to study the very remarkable collection of Argentine Orthop- 

 fera treated in the present paper. 



Epilampra stigmatiphora- n. sp. 



Type: cf; Misiones, Argentina. February 8, 1910. (P. Jor- 

 gensen; No. 1.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., tj^pe No. 5,211.] 



This new form is a very interesting species apparently allied to 

 E. testacea Brunner, from Brazil, and caizana Giglio-Tos, from Bolivia, 

 differing from the former in the color pattern of the head and 

 pronotum and in the covered portion of the tegmen being no darker 

 than the general color, and from caizana in the greater size, in the 

 more rotundate median protuberance of the caudal margin of the 

 pronotum, the non-punctate margins of the same, in the blackish 

 humeral trunk of the tegmina and the non-punctate limbs. 



Size medium. Head very slightly projecting beyond the pronotum, 

 considerably depressed; interocular space nearly one and one-half 

 times the depth of the eye, the outline hardly rounded when seen 

 from the dorsum, the eyes well rounded; paired ocelli enormous in 

 size, elliptical in outline, converging ventrad, slightly impressed; 

 antennae slightly longer than half of the body length. Pronotum 

 of the form, found in most species of the genus, cephalic margin 

 regularly arcuate from the lateral angles except for a slight flattening 

 dorsad of the head, lateral angles very narrowly rounded obtuse- 

 angulate, lateral margins moderately convergent caudad, caudal 

 margin appreciably produced mesad into a broad rounded expansion, 

 laterad of which the margins are arcuato-emarginate ; disk with two 

 pairs of impressed punctures slightly cephalad of the middle, the usual 

 transverse creasing of the surface toward the caudal margin distinct 

 but not deep. Tegmina surpassing the apex of the abdomen by 

 about half the pronotal length, moderately broad, the median half 

 subequal in width ; costal margin moderately arcuate in the proximal 



2 2-<; //o-^-^opo?, bearing brandmarks . 

 19 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



half, then straight and finally 

 narrowly rounding to the apex, 

 sutural margin subrect in the 

 proximal two-thirds, thence arcu- 

 ate oblique-truncate to the well- 

 rounded but in general form acute 

 apex; venation prominent; anal 

 field very elongate pyriform, the 

 anal vein reaching the sutural 

 margin mesad. Wings ample, 

 the greatest width contained one 



T.. o 77 -7 f 4-1, and two-thirds times in the 



tig. 2. — E pilampra stigmatipnora n. sp. 



Dorsal view of type. (Xli) length of same; costal margin 



moderately arcuate distad, apex 

 rotundato-rectangulate; region of the costal veins coriaceous, sub- 

 opaque; anterior ulnar vein with three complete and eight incom- 

 plete rami; anterior field of the wing very broad. Abdomen strongly 

 depressed; supra-anal plate broad, produced, rounded, with a median 

 rectangulate emargination ; cerci subfusiform, the distal extremity 

 attenuate; subgenital plate broad, rounded, .slightly asymmetrical, 

 slightly impressed at the insertion of the styles, the latter very small. 

 Cephalic femora with the ventro-cephalic margin armed with four 

 or five spines mesad and a single distal one, the area between supplied 

 with very short setiform spinulations. Median and caudal limbs 

 with the ventro-cephalic margins of the femora supplied with five 

 spaced spines. Caudal metatarsi very slightly longer than the re- 

 mainder of the tarsus, biseriato-spinulose ventrad, pulvillus small, 

 distad. 



General color cream-buff, the tegmina, aside from the costal por- 

 tion, nearly uncolored translucent, maculations Vandyke brown and 

 where less decided russet. Head with the occiput having a large 

 maculation of vandyke brown divided cephalo-caudad by a line of 

 the base color ; region from the middle of the interocular space to the 

 middle of the interocellar space russet with a decided vandyke brown 

 section dorsad; eyes seal brown; antennae, except for the pale proxi- 

 mal joint, bistre. Pronotum thickly speckled with fine vandyke 

 brown points with less frequent rather regularly placed larger dots 

 ' of the same color, a median sublyrate pattern, part of which is made 

 up of a transverse series of eight large dots, of the same color; caudal 

 margin with a series of well-spaced points. Tegmina with a short 

 sinuous line on the base of the humeral trunk seal brown, the well- 




19 13. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



scattered points, which sometimes resolve themselves into larger 

 blotches, russet. Wings hyaline with the veins of the anterior field 

 very pale russet and of the posterior field Vandyke brown, the 

 coriaceous portion of the costal margin buffy. Limbs and ventral 

 surface pale clay color, the latter finely speckled with vandyke 

 brown and with larger paired lateral patches of the same color, the 

 former darkening in color distad, the spines tawny. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 23. mm. 



Length of pronotum „ 6 . " 



Greatest width of pronotum 7.5 " 



Length of tegmen 22 . 5 " 



Median width of tegmen 7.4 " 



In addition to the type, we have examined six paratypes (taken 

 January 1, February 8, October 1, and December, 1910) which differ 

 little from the type. The size shows almost no variation, while color 

 differences are wholly in the degree of density of the fine brownish 

 punctations on the tegmina. In this respect the type represents one 

 pale extreme, from which the series grades to the other extreme, 

 represented by one specimen, in which these small spots are much 

 more abundant and generally distril:)uted on the tegmina, being well 

 marked on the costal field. The larger maculations of the tegmina 

 of the type are represented in the darker individuals by smaller, 

 Vandyke brown, more sharply cut ones, while the lining of the humeral 

 trunk is broader, solid, and decidedly striking. 



*Epilainpra verticalis Burmeister. 



1838. E[pilampra] verticalis Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, Abth.. II, 

 pt. 1, p. 505. [Brazil.] 



Misiones. November 2, 1910. (No. 6.) One female. 



All of the previous records of this species are from Brazil. 



Subfamily BLATTIN^. 

 Periplaneta brunnea Burmeister. 



1838. P[eriplaneta] brunnea Burmeister, ibid., p. 503. [Chile; Demerara.] 



Embarcacion, Salta. April, 1911. One female. 



This specimen shows no differences from a pair from Caiza, BoHvia. 



The species has been recorded from San Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina, 



Aguairenda and Caiza, Bolivian Chaco and Colonia Risso, upper 



Paraguay (Giglio-Tos). 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



SubfamUy PANCHLORIN^. 

 Fanchlora thalassina Saussure and Zehntner. 



1893. Panchlora thalassina Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., 

 Orth., I, pp. 91, 93. [Guatemala; Santa Catharina, Brazil; La Plata, 

 Argentine Republic] 



Misiones. April 20, 1910; November, 1910. (No. 2.) One 

 male, one female. 



The above fully agree with material from Puerto Bertoni, Para- 

 guay. The form has been reported from Sapucay, Paraguay (Cau- 

 dell) and Tala, Salta and San Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina (Giglio-Tos) . 



SubfamUy BLABERIN^. 

 *Monastria biguttata (Thunberg). 



"1826. Blatta biguttata Thunberg, Mem. I'Acad. St. Petersb., X, p. 276, 

 pi. 14." 



Misiones. January 29, 1911. (No. 10.) "Common." One 

 female. 



This specimen is very interesting as, while it fully agrees with the 

 descriptions of the female of this species in every other respect, 

 according exactly in the form of the tegminal margins, it differs in the 

 tegmina being distinctly longer than in the more usual type described. 

 The tegmina in our specimen cover nearly half of the abdomen and 

 are nineteen millimeters in length from the point of attachment to 

 the extreme portion of the margin. The previous descriptions give 

 the length of the tegmina as from ten to twelve millimeters. 



All of the older records of the species are simply from ''Brazil." 

 The present author has recorded a male from Yaguarasapa, Paraguay, 

 while Giglio-Tos^ has recorded what is in all probability this or a 

 congeneric species from Paraguay as Blabera fumigata, a peculiarly 

 Cuban species, the female of which resembles this genus. 



*Blaberus fraternus Saussure. 



1864. Blabera fraterna Saussure, Mem. I'Hist. Nat. Mex., Ill, p. 241. 

 [South America; Cuba?] 



Jujuy. April, 1911. One female. 



This specimen shows a few differences from the original description, 

 which was based on the male sex, but these are probably only sexual. 

 In all the more important characters, which would be shared by both 

 sexes, our specimen agrees with the description. The pronotal 



2 Zoolog. Jahrb., Abth. Syst., VIII, p. 805. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



patch is considerably extended laterad along the caudal margin and 

 is sharply cut out on the sides. This form belongs to the same group 

 of species as minor, and to which apparently belongs hrasilianus 

 Saussure and sulzeri Guerin. 



We know nothing definite regarding the distribution of this species. 



Subfamily CORYDIX.E. 

 Melestora fulvella n. sp. 



Type: cf; Misiones, Argentina. December, 1910. (P. Jor- 

 gensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,212.] 



This species, the first of this very peculiar genus seen by us, differs 

 from adspersicollis and fuscella Stal, both from Rio Janeiro, in the 

 smaller size, non-lineate pronotum, and very much more uniform 

 coloration. 



Size small; form moderately depressed; body, except pronotum 

 and tegmina, covered with fine ochraceous pile. Head but very 

 slightly projecting beyond the pronotum, outline of the occiput 

 subtruncate; interspace between the eyes broad, about equal to one 

 and one-half times the greatest depth of the eye, this region and the 

 equally broad interantennal section impresso- 

 punctulate; eyes elongate pyro-reniform in 

 outline; antennae subequal to the body 

 in length. Pronotum transverse elliptical in 

 outline, the cephalic margin subtruncate, Fig. 3.—Meleslora ful- 

 lateral portions moderately declivent; surface ^f^^egnS (S^'ti^l 

 polished. Tegmina surpassing the apex of the ( x 4.) 

 abdomen by more than the length of the 



pronotum, very slightly inferior to the tips of the wings, sublanceolate 

 in outline ; costal margin gently arcuate, sutural margin straight in the 

 proximal two-thirds and thence arcuate to the rather broadly rounded 

 apex; venation of the peculiar type found in this genus, the trans- 

 verse veins forming regularly subquadrate or subrectangulate areas, 

 the surface of these areas as well as the costal field minutely papillose; 

 costal veins seven in number; anal vein joining the sutural margin 

 at about a third of the length from the base. Supra-anal plate with 

 the distal margin arcuate; subgenital plate asymmetrical; cerci 

 depressed, hardly tapering, apex moderately acute. 



General color rather pale ochraceous, on the disk of the pronotum 

 inclined toward tawny. Occiput ferruginous, passing into hazel on 

 the lower face; eyes clove brown; antennae drab. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



Measurements. 



Length of body 7 . mm. 



Length of pronotum 1.8 '' 



Greatest width of pronotum 2.2 " 



Length of tegmen 7.7 " 



Greatest width of tegmen 2.7 " 



The type of this interesting species is unique. 



Family MANTID^. 



Subfamily ORTHODERIN^. 

 *Maiitoida'burmeisteri (Giebel). 



1862. Ch[cetoessa] burmeisteri Giebel, Zeitschr. fiir die Gesammt. Naturwiss., 

 XX, p. 316. [Neu Freiburg, State of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Misiones. January 26, 191L One male. 



This is the first record of the species since the origilial description. 



Subfamily MAXTIX.^. 

 Acontista bimaculata Saussure. 



1870. A[contista] bimaculata Saussure, Mittheil. Schweiz. Entom. Gesell., 

 Ill, p. 229. [Brazil.] 



Jujuy, Province of Jujuy. April, 1911. One male. 



Misiones. January 31, 1911; February 15, 1911; October, 1910; 

 October 30, 1909. (No. 10.) Six males. 



A single Misiones male (October 30, 1909) has the head, pronotum, 

 and cephalic coxae washed with orange. An individual of the same 

 sex from Sapucay, Paraguay, now before us, has the same color 

 present but more extensive, coloring the femora as well. 



The only previous Argentine record is from San Lorenzo, Jujuy 

 (Giglio-Tos) . The other known records of the species are from 

 Paraguay (Giglio-Tos) ; Sapucay, Paraguay (Caudell, Rehn) ; 

 Asuncion, Paraguay (Giglio-Tos) ; Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil (Saus- 

 sure); Goyaz, Brazil (Saussure), and Chiquitos,- Bolivia (Saussure). 

 Brunneria brasiliensis Saussure. 



1870. B[runneria] brasiliensis Saussure, ibid., p. 240. [Brazil.] 



Misiones. March 15, 1910. (No. 2.) One male. 



This is the second record of the species from Argentina. Other 

 records of the form show its range to extend from Brazil and Paraguay 

 (specificalty from Sapucay) west to San Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina. 



Brunneria subaptera Saussure. 



1869. B[rimneria] subaptera Saussure, ibid., p. 71. [Argentine Pampas.] 



Buenos Aires. May 1, 1909. One female. 



This species has been recorded from northern Patagonia north to 

 Carcarana and Buenos Aires. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



The Genus COPTOPTEEYX. 



In studying the material in the present collection belonging to the 

 genus Coptopteryx, we have found it necessary to make a preliminary 

 revision of the genus, examining all the available material belonging 

 to the same. From the present series, the Academy Collection and 

 the Hebard Collection we have assembled fifty specimens, and from a 

 careful study of this series it is evident that considerable confusion 

 has existed in all previous work on the genus, including that by the 

 present author. A large portion of this confusion is directly traceable 

 to Saussure's error in using Blanchard's name crenaticoUis for a 

 species distinct from that author's gayi, when, as shown by the 

 present material, they are clearly sexes of the same species. 



It is evident from our material that almost all of the species'* of 

 the genus show very considerable size variation, that venational 

 characters are very unreliable, and also that green phases with hyaline 

 tegmina and wings in the male, and brown phases with infumate or 

 infuscate tegmina and wings in the same sex probabl}^ will be found 

 in the same species, although we have little conclusive evidence 

 regarding the color phases. 



The following key has been constructed from the material before 

 us and we trust it will be found serviceable. 



Males. 



a. — Size medium to large. Shaft of pronotum not strongly con- 

 stricted mesad. Width of head contained at least two and 

 one-half times in the length of pronotum. 

 b. — Size large (body 56.5-79 mm.; pronotum 15-21.2). 



c. — Greatest width of the pronotum contained not more than 

 three and one-half times in the length of the same, 

 d. — Wing narrower, the breadth contained more than 



twice in the length argentina (Burmeister). 



dd.— Wing broader, the breadth contained less than twice 



in the length claraziana Saussure. 



cc. — Greatest width of the pronotum contained at least four 



times in the length of the same thoracica n. sp. 



bb. — Size medium (body 43.5-54 mm.; pronotum 11.3-14.8), 



gayi (Blanchard). 



aa. — Size small. Shaft of pronotum strongly constricted mesad. 



Width of head contained less than twice ' in the length of 



. pronotum constrida n. sp. 



* The species Mantis gymnopyga Burmeister and Mantis grisea Philippi, which 

 have been questionably referred to this genus, do not appear to belong here. 

 Phihppi's grisea is clearly a nymph of another genus as suggested by Saussure. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Fe7nale. 



a. — Lateral margins of the pronotum regularly and finely denticulate. 

 Tegmina with the discoidal and anal fields unicolorous. 



(Form robust.) argentina (Burmeister). 



aa. — Lateral margins of the pronotum strongly spinose, the spines 

 with regularly intercalated spinulations. Tegmina with the 

 discoidal and anal fields bicolored. 

 b. — Size medium to large. Pronotum with the length of the 

 collar contained over twice in that of the shaft, 

 c. — Size large (body 62-80 mm.; pronotum 19-25.3). 



d. — Pronotum broader, the greatest width contained about 

 three times in the length, shaft weakly carinate. 



Cephalic limbs more robust daraziana Saussure. 



dd. — Pronotum more elongate, the greatest width contained 

 about four times in the length, shaft decidedly 

 though finely carinate. Cephalic limbs slenderer, 



thoracica n. sp. 

 cc. — Size medium (body 44-54 mm.; pronotum 13.2-15.8), 



gayi (Blanchard). 



bb. — Size small. Pronotum with the length contained not more 



than twice in that of the shaft constricta n. sp. 



Coptopteryx argentina (Burmeister) .5 



1864. M[antis\ arQenlina Burmeister, Berl. Entom. Zeitschr., VIII, p. 208. 

 [Argentina between Buenos Aires and Mendoza.] 



Misiones. January 18, 1910. (No. 1.) One male, 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. May 2, 1908. 

 One female. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. January 

 20, 1908; March 9, 1908; April 5 and 11, 1907. Four females. 



Cordillera de Mendoza. March 22, 1908. One male. 



Of this species we have before us a series of eleven males and 

 fifteen females, from the evidence of which we know there is a great 

 amount of individual variation in size. The two males from Sapucay 

 previously recorded by us as crenaticollis (vide infra) are considerably 

 smaller than any other specimens of that sex, although the largest 

 male individual is from the same locality. The females of the 

 Sapucay series show very similar, but somewhat less decided size 

 variation, while those from the Province of Mendoza average con- 

 siderably smaller, yet show much variation among themselves. 



Measurements of the extreme individuals are as follows: 



^ To this species belongs the male material from Sapucay, Paraguay, recorded 

 by us as crenaticollis {Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 155). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



The two small male.s from Sapucay and the Cordillera de Mendoza 

 male differ from all the others of that sex in having the extreme 

 proximal portion of the marginal field of the tegmina equally hyaline 

 with the remainder of that field, while the other specimens have the 

 same opaque rufous, on one side touching the humeral trunk and on 

 the other obliquely delimited. 



The Cordillera de Mendoza specimen differs from all the other 

 specimens seen in having the margins of the collar of the pronotum 

 more decidedly converging cephalad, the cephalic extremity being 

 much narrower than usual in consequence. This appears, however, 

 to be purely individual. 



The species, from the basis of previous records and present material, 

 is known to range from southern Brazil (Saussure) and central 

 Paraguay (Sapucay) south to Uruguay (Saussure) and west to the 

 Cordillera de Mendoza, Argentina. 

 Coptopteryx claraziana Saussure.7 



1869. C[optopteryx] claraziana Saussui'e, Mittheil. Schweiz. Entom. Gesell., 

 Ill, p. 66. ["Ager argentinus."] 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. de Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. Decem- 

 ber 13, 1907. One male. 



This specimen has the tegmina fuliginoso-hyaline, while the wings 

 are more decidedly fuliginous. The female from Carcaraiia, Argen- 

 tina, previously recorded by us as crenaticoUis,^ belongs to this species. 



The Chacras de Coria specimen measures: length of body, 72 mm.; 



6 Imperfectly developed. 



^ This name was almost immediately cancelled by Saussure, who then considered 

 the species to represent Blanchard's crenaticollis. This is clearly an error and 

 the name claraziana is available for the species, which has been recorded by most 

 authors as crenaticollis, following Saussure. 



8 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 155. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



length of pronotum, 19; greatest width of pronotum, 5.2; length of 

 tegmen, 52; length of cephalic femur, 14.7. 



This species, as far as can be determined from our correlation of 

 the published records, ranges from southern Brazil (Saussure) and 

 the Province of San Pedro, Paraguay (Giglio-Tos), south to Bahia 

 Blanca and the north of Patagonia (Saussure), west to Mendoza 

 Province (Chacras de Coria) and east to the Rio de la Plata (Buenos 

 Aires; Giglio-Tos). 

 Coptopteryx thoracica n. sp. 



1894.^ Coptopteryx gaiji Giglio-Tos (not of Blanchard), Boll. Mus. Zool. 

 Anat. Comp. Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 3. [Province of San Pedro, Paraguay; 

 Santa Rosa, Salta, Argentina.] 

 1907. Coptopteryx gayi Rehn (not of Blanchard), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1907, p. 155. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Type: 9 ; Sapucay, Paraguay. December 19, 1904. (William 

 Foster.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,215.] 



The differential characters of this form have been emphasized in 

 the key. 



Size large (for the genus); form less robust than in argentina. 

 Head trigonal, slightly broader than deep; occiput moderately 

 arcuate, the juxta-ocular sections subbullate and separated from the 

 occipital margin proper by moderately deep sulci, the dorsal portion 

 of the eyes considerably ventrad of these inflated sections; ocelli 

 small, placed in an arcuate line; facial shield strongly transverse, 

 the greatest depth contained about three times in the width of the 

 same, dorsal margin obtuse-angulate, lateral margins oblique trun- 

 cate; eyes moderately prominent, subovate in basal outline; antennae 

 short, filiform. Pronotum elongate, not strongly inflated, the greatest 

 width contained about four times in the length; lateral margins of 

 the collar and shaft closely and regularly spinose with nearly as 

 regularly placed intercalated spinulations ; collar having the cephalic 

 margin strongly arcuate with the middle slightly flattened, lateral 

 margins regularly expanding caudad to the well-rounded supracoxal 

 dilation; shaft with the margins narrowing more abruptly caudad of 

 the dilation than the collar expands to the same, thence caudad 

 apparently subequal, but in reality very slightly expanding to the 

 arcuate caudal margin, which is subtruncate mesad; transverse 

 sulcus deep, median carina finely but decidedly indicated, present 

 throughout the prothoracic length except for a very short distance 



9 It is quite probable that Coptopteryx gayi Gigli-Tos {Zoolog. Jahrb., Abth. 

 Syst., VIII, p. 805, 1895), listed without comment from Paraguay, is the same as 

 the present form. In the reference given in the above text the accompanying 

 description enables us to place the species without question, but in the Jahr- 

 biicher case we have no such aid. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



cephalad. Tegmina broad-ovate, surface subcoriaceous as in all of 

 the species of the genus ; costal margin strongly arcuate on the proxi- 

 mal fourth, thence obliquely arcuato-truncate to the broad arcuate 

 obtuse-angulate apex, sutural margin moderately arcuate; stigma 

 hardly indicated; anal field elongate subpyriform, anal vein reaching 

 the sutural margin about three-fourths the length of the same from 

 the base. Wings not exceeding the tips of the tegmina. Supra- 

 anal plate trigonal in form, lateral margins arcuato-bisinuate, apex 

 slightly acute, median carina pronounced, sublamellate distad; cerci 

 moniliform, short; subgenital plate slightly exceeding the supra-anal 

 plate. Cephalic limbs (for the sex) quite slender; coxae about 

 two- thirds as long as the cephalic femora, cephalic margin with six 

 to seven recurved spines and numerous intercalated spinulations, 

 caudal margin with the same character of armament, lateral margin 

 with numerous spinulations, internal face of the coxae with numerous 

 scattered points; cephalic femora subequal in length to the pronotal 

 shaft, its greatest depth contained about six times in the length, 

 external margin armed with five spines, internal margin armed with 

 fourteen spines, of which only the penultimate and antepenultimate 

 are markedlj'' smaller than the others, discoidal spines three in 

 number; cephalic tibiae armed on the external margin with nine 

 spines; on the internal margin with sixteen to seventeen spines 

 exclusive of the apical claw; cephalic metatarsi slightly longer than 

 the remaining tarsal joints. Median and caudal limbs similar to 

 those of other species of the genus. 



General color burnt umber, washed with wood brown on the limbs, 

 the tibiae and tarsi distinctly bice green in tone. Tegmina with the 

 proximal two-thirds shining clove brown, the remainder 

 dull wax yellow, the veins reticulate with umber. 

 Eyes clove brown. 



Allotype: cT ; Sapucay, Paraguay. December 10, 1905. 

 (William Foster.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



Differing from the type in those characters which are 

 sexual in the genus, the more important differences 

 being here given. Fig. 4.— Cop- 



Size large; form elongate, slender. Ocelli large, topteryx 

 placed in a triangle ; facial shield with the dorsal margin n sp'^Dor- 

 arcuato-emarginate laterad. Pronotum with the great- sal outline 

 est width contained four and a half times in the depth ^Natural 

 of the same; lateral margins obscurely crenulate, this size.) 

 more distinct on the collar than elsewhere. Tegmina 

 slightly surpassing the apex of the abdomen, the greatest width 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



contained about* five and a half times in the length of the same; 

 costal margin straight for the greater portion of its length, arcuate 

 proximad and distad, apex narrowly rounded; costal field very 

 narrow, from about the proximal fourth gradually narrowing dLstad; 

 anal field elongate pyriform, the anal vein reaching the sutural margin 

 not quite a third the distance from the base. Wings ample, the 

 greatest width contained slightly more than twice in the length of the 

 same; apex rotundato-acuteangulate, separated from the peripheral 

 margin by a distinct obtuse-angulate emargination; anterior field 

 narrow. Supra-anal plate broadly trigonal, of similar form to that 

 of the female; subgenital plate broad, the distal extremity of the 

 margin with a slight obtuse-angulate emargination. Limbs similar 

 to those of the female, but slenderer. 



General color prout's brown, becoming isabelline on the cephalic 

 limbs and greenish on the caudal ones. Tegmina strongly washed 

 with liver brown, costal field with the veins buffy aside from the 

 subcoriaceous portion adjacent to the humeral trunk, which is of the 

 general tegminal color. Wings infuscate with bistre, the cross veins 

 white, greater portion of the costal margin and a small area at the 

 base of the wing claret brown. 



Measurements. 



Female (type). Male (allotype) . 



Length of body : 82 . mm. 70 . mm. 



Length of pronotum 25.5 " 21. 



Greatest width of pronotum 6.5 " 4.7 " 



Length of tegmen 12.5 " 50.5 " 



Greatest width of tegmen 7. " 9. " 



Length of cephalic femur 19.5 " 14. " 



In addition to the type and allotype, we have before us two male 

 and three female paratypes. The specimen referred to by us (vide 

 supra) from Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, received from Saussure and 

 determined by him as gayi, is clearly referable to this species. In 

 size the Sapucay specimens show but little variation for this genus, 

 while the color varies appreciably in intensity in the females and in 

 the males to the extent noted in the paper quoted above. 



Coptopteryx gayi (Blanchard). 



1851. Mantis Gayi Blanchard, in Gay, Hist. Fis. Polit. de Chile, Zool., 



VI, p. 21, Orth. pi. 1, fig. 5. [Chile.] 

 1851. Mantis crenaticollis Blanchard, ibid., p. 22. [Chile.] 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. de Mendoza. Elev. 930 meters. January 



5, 1908; March 6, 1908; December 6, 1907. Two males, one female. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



Mendoza, Prov. de Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. March 20, 

 1908; April 9.and 24, 1908. One male, two females. 



Potrerillos, Prov. de Mendoza. Elev. 1,368 meters. December 

 29, 1909. One female. 



A careful study of Blanchard's original descriptions of the above 

 species leaves no room for doubt but that the two names were based 

 on opposite sexes of the same species, gayi on the male and crenati- 

 collis on the female. 



The present material agrees very fully with these descriptions and 

 also shows that the species varies very considerably in size, the 

 Mendoza male being very much smaller than the others of that sex. 



The original measurements and those of the present series are as 

 follows : 



Length Length Greatest Length Length of Length of 



of of width of of cephahc caudal 



body. pronotum. pronotum. tegmen. femur. femur. 



^ mm. mm. mm. mm. mm. mm. 



Original of gra?/i 44-48'" 



Mendoza 43.5 11.3 2.6 31.5 8. 14. 



Chacras de Coria 52.3 14. 3.3 41. 10.5 18.2 



€hacras de Coria 54. 14.8 3.2 40. 11. 17.7 



? 



Original of crenaiicoMis 44 . " 



Mendoza 46. 13.2 4. 7.2 9.1 13. 



Mendoza 44.7 14. 4.1 8.4 10.5 13.8 



Chacras de Coria 49.5 15.8 4.6 9. 12. 14.1 



Potrerillos 54. 15. 5. 9. 12.5 16.2 



The males before us agree with the original figure, although the 

 tegmina and wings are very slightly less fuliginous. The small 

 Mendoza male has the limbs colored exactly as in the original figure, 

 while the other males have them more brownish, particularly the 

 cephalic ones. The females are all of tones of brownish varying 

 toward hoary gray brown and seal brown. 



The species is known to range from Chile (specifically Santiago, 

 vide Philippi) east to Buenos Aires (Saussure), south to Bahia Blanca 

 (Saussure). 

 ■Coptopteryx constricta n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Chacras de Coria, Province of Mendoza, Argentina. 

 Elev. 936 meters. April 19, 1907. (P. Jorgensen.) [Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., type No. 5,216.] 



The differential characters of this very distinct species are given 

 in the keys. 



^° Approximately as above — the original 22-24 lines. 

 " Approximately as above — the original 22 lines. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF IMay, 



Size small (smallest in the genus) ; form moderately robust, abdo- 

 men broad fusiform. Head broad trigonal, the depth contained about 

 one and one-third times in the width; occipital margin moderately 

 arcuate, appreciably indented at the sulci, more distinctly arcuate 

 laterad of the same; ocelli small, placed in a depressed triangle; 

 facial shield strongly transverse, the depth contained nearly three 

 times in the width, dorsal margin obtuse-angulate, ventral margin 

 nearly straight, two slight median bosses present; eyes hardly 

 prominent, well rounded; antennae filiform, very short. Pronotum 

 of the general form found in females of species of this genus, the 

 width of the supracoxal expansion contained two and one-half times 

 in the length of the pronotum; cephalic margin very slightly pro- 

 duced, very narrowly rounded at the extremity, margins of the collar 

 expanding caudad to the supracoxal expansion, margins of the shaft 

 moderately constricted, regularly concave, caudal margin arcuate 

 laterad, s-ubtruncate mesad, all of the lateral margins spinose, the 

 spines of the margins of the shaft much longer than those elsewhere, 

 distinct, more or less regular intercalated spines of minor length 

 present on the same margins; transverse sulcus strongly impressed, 

 shaft with a very distinct, but not high median carina. Tegmina 

 very short, not more than half the length of the pronotum, broad 

 ovate, costal margin strongly arcuate, apex subtruncate, sutural 

 margin moderately arcuate; marginal field more than half the width 

 of the remainder of the tegmen, anal field very long and narrow. 

 Supra-anal plate transverse, trigonal, the margins laterad of the apex 

 arcuate, apex obtuse-angulate; cerci simple, terete, not exceeding 

 the supra-anal plate; subgenital plate compressed, rostrate. Ceph- 

 alic coxse slightly more than two-thirds the length of the pronotum, 

 dorsal and ventral margins with numerous distinct recurved denti-. 

 form spines and intercalated spinulations, external margin with 

 denticulate tubercles, internal face of the coxse with numerous 

 tubercles arranged more or less regularly in longitudinal series; 

 cephalic femora more than five-sixths the length of the pronotum, 

 the greatest depth of the femur slightly more than a fourth the 

 length of the same, dorsal margin nearly straight, ventro-external 

 margin arcuate, armed with five short robust spines, internal margin 

 with thirteen spines more or less alternating in length, the proximal 

 spines the longer, discoidal spines three in number; cephalic tibiae 

 (exclusive of apical claw) about half the length of the femur, armed 

 on the external margin with eight spines, a considerable unarmed dias- 

 tema at the base, internal margin armed with thirteen to fourteen 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



295 



spines increasing in length distad ; cephalic tarsi subequal in length to- 

 the cephalic tibiae with claw, meta- 

 tarsus slightly exceeding the re- 

 maining tarsal joints in length. 

 Median and caudal limbs of the 

 usual type, but rather robust in pro- 

 portion. 



General color pale apple green, 

 the abdomen pale olive green, but 

 possibly this is due to discolora- 

 tion. Head with the upper face 

 inclined toward yellowish, eyes 

 olive. Tegmina with the base color 

 of the discoidal and anal fields 

 orange-ochraceous, the veins weak 

 olive buff, finely outlined with chest- 

 nut, the costal field and proximal 

 portion of the discoidal and anal 

 fields more or less uniformly deep 

 maroon, the veins of the costal field 

 outlined with pale salmon-buff, 

 those of the discoidal and anal 

 fields more olive buff. Proximal 



portion of the cephalic tibiae and distal portion of the cephalic femur 

 washed with chrome yellow. Cephalic femoral and tibial spines 

 ochre yellow tipped with seal brown. 



Allotype: cf ; Chacras de Coria, Province of Mendoza, Argentina. 

 Elev. 936 meters. April 4, 1907. (P. Jorgensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila.] 



Size small for the genus; form moderately elongate, but more 

 abbreviate cephalad than usual in this genus. Head slightly more 

 transverse than in the female, the occipital outline slightly less 

 arcuate; ocelli large, placed in a triangle; eyes more prominent. 

 Pronotum with the greatest width more than a third of the length, 

 general form of the pronotum similar to that of the male, but with the 

 margins entire or faintly crenulate instead of spinose; median carina 

 but very faintly indicated. Tegmina ample, considerably surpassing 

 the apex of the abdomen, the greatest width contained about four 

 times in the length of the same; hyaline, with the vicinity of the 

 humeral trunk coriaceous; costal margin arcuate proximad and 

 distad, straight for the remainder of the length, sutural margin 



Fig. 5. — Coptopteryx constrida n. sp. 

 Dorsal view of female (tj^pe). 

 (X 2.) 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



strongly arcuate to the rotundato-obtuse apex, thence nearly 



straight to the anal field. Wing moderately broad, 



the greatest width contained about twice in the 



length, the apex well rounded; hyaline, except for a 



coriaceous strip along the costal margin ; anterior ulnar 



vein biramose. Cephalic median and caudal limbs as 



in the opposite sex. Supra-anal plate of similar form to 



^fovteryx ^^at of the female; cerci elongate, moniliform; sub- 



constrida genital plate large, moderately produced, the distal 



saf Outline margin narrowly arcuato-emarginate. 



of male General color very pale apple green. Ocelli gamboge 



(X?.)^^ yellow; eyes mars brown; antennae ochre yellow. 



Tegmina and wings thalassino-hyaline with the 



coriaceous median trunk of the former ochraceous, the costal margin 



of the latter greenish. Proximo-ventral abdominal segments with a 



broad seal brown edging mesad on the distal margin. Median and 



caudal tarsi clouded with olive. 



Measurements. 



Female (type). Male (allotype). 



Length of body 28.5 mm. 36. mm. 



Length of pronotum 9. " 9. " 



Greatest width of pronotum 3.7 " 3. 



Length of tegmen .»... 4.8" 29 . 5 



Length of cephalic femur 8. " 7.5 



Length of caudal femur 8.7 " 11.9 



In addition to the type and allotype, we have before us the following 

 series: Chacras de Coria, March 29, 1907, one male; Mendoza, 

 Province of Mendoza, April 11 and 20, 1908, one male, two females; 

 La Paz, Province of Mendoza, elev. 504 meters, January 29, 1908, 

 one male. Aside from the fact that the paratypic male is pale ochra- 

 ceous in color, while all of the other specimens seen are greenish, the ' 

 series presents no noteworthy differences. 



Miopteryx rustica (Fabricius). 



1781. [Mantis] rustica Fabricius, Spec. Ins., I, p. 350. [Shores of Pata- 

 gonia.] 



Misiones. April 19 and 30, 1910, September 9, 1909. (No. 7.) 

 Three males. 



The present material fully agrees with Fabricius' original descrip- 

 tion, which, though brief, satisfactorily characterizes the species. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



The second description given by Saussure^^ shows some points of 

 difference from our material, and it is quite probable that he had 

 another (Brazilian) species before him. Our specimens have no 

 trace of a covering or overcapping projection of the front extending 

 over the inferior ocellus, as described by Saussure, in fact there is no 

 approach to a development of this sort of structure, which is so 

 marked in Pseudomiopteryx and toward which Saussure considered 

 rustica, as understood by him, to tend. The cephalic coxae are very 

 finely serrulate instead of unarmed as stated to be by Saussure. 



One of our specimens is more decidedly infuscate than the others, 

 being as dark as specimens of Pseudomiopteryx infuscafa, but this is 

 apparently individual. 

 *Paramusonia livida (Serville). 



1839. Thespis livida Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins. Orthopt., p. 172. [Brazil.] 



Misiones. April 30 and May 3, 1910. (No. 5.) ''Flies at night." 

 Two males. 



Aside from the type locality, this species has also been recorded 

 from Sapucay, Paraguay, with material from which latter place the 

 present individuals have been compared. 

 Paramusonia seclusa n. sp. 



Type: cf ; Alto Pencosa, Province of San Luis, Argentina. Elev. 

 660 meters. December 20, 1908. (P. Jorgensen.) [Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., type No. 5,213.] 



This species in general size is much the same as P. livida, but the 

 form of the pronotum is very slender, more as in the other species 

 of the genus, from all of which it differs markedly in the brevity of 

 the same portion. 



Size medium (for the group), form moderately bacilliform. Head 

 strongly transverse, the greatest depth contained about one and 

 one-half times in the width; occipital margin arcuato-truncate 

 between the transverse sulci, laterad of the same well rounded, 

 hardly produced; ocelli very large, placed in a triangle; eyes very 

 prominent, ovoid in form when seen from the side, prominent; an- 

 tennae with the joints appreciably but very gradually increasing in 

 length distad. Pronotum with the greatest width contained about 

 four and one-half times in the length of the same; shaft distinctly 

 broader than the collar and both subequal in width, the margins of 

 the collar rounded at the cephalic extremity and slightly expanded 

 caudad to the rotundato-obtuse supracoxal expansion, caudal 



^ Miss. Scient. Mex., Rech. Zoolog., VI, p. 277. 

 20 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



extremity rouijded with a slight median truncation; lateral margins 



finely serrulate, median carina thin, decided and well elevated. 



Tegmina over twice the length of the pronotum, of the type found in 

 other species of the genus. Wings exceeding the 

 tegmina by about the length of the collar of the prono- 

 tum, apex of similar form to that of the tegmina. Supra- 

 anal plate elongate acute-lanceolate, considerably sur- 

 passing the subgenital plate, carinate ; cerci nearly twice 



y 7 _p the length of the supra-anal plate, elongate monihform, 



r'am'usonia apex acute; subgenital plate with the distal margin 



seclma n ^^^ rounded, styles moderately long, well separated, 

 sp. J-JorsS;! I'll • /-^^ 1 



outline of Simple, the space between slightly emargmate. Leph- 



pronotum ^jj^ (^Q^se subequal to the length of the pronotal shaft, 



(X 2.) margins very finely serrulate; cephalic femur with the 



dorsal margin nearly straight, armed on the external 



margin with five spines, on the internal margin with thirteen spines, 



discoidal spines four in number; cephalic tibiae about two-fifths the 



length of the femur, armed on the external margin with five spines 



placed on the distal section of the margin, internal margin armed 



with seven to nine spines; cephalic metatarsus slightly longer than 



the remainder of the tarsal joints and subequal to the tibiae in length. 



Median and caudal limbs extremely slender, caudal metatarsus but 



slightly less than half of the caudal tibial length. 



General color fawn color, mottled, sprinkled, clouded and washed 



with hair brown and seal brown. Head strongly washed with the 



overlying color, the line of the occiput showing up as the clear base 



color, ocelli tawny olive, eyes mars brown. Tegmina pale brownish 



hyaline, the longitudinal veins prout's brown, the adjacent portions 



of the short cross veins of the same color, intercalated veins and 



remainder of cross veins cream color. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 32 . 5 



Length of pronotum 7.8 



Greatest Avidth of pronotum 1.5 



Length of tegmen 18 . 5 



Length of cephahc femur 6.2 



Length of caudal femur 11. 



The type of this species is unique. 



Thesprotia vidua Saussure and Zehntner. 



1894. Thesprotia vidua Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, 

 p. 170. [South America.] 



Misiones. January 3, 5 and 10, 1910; March 29, 1910; October 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



5, 1909; December 10, 1910. (No. 6.) ''At .light" and "flying at 

 night." Nine males, one female. 



This series shows that there is a very slight amount of variation 

 in the subhyaline character of the tegmina and wings of the male. 

 One male has these appendages subinfumate, but between this and 

 the other practically hyaline extreme are all intermediates. In size 

 the male specimens agree very closely with the dimensions for that 

 sex given by Giglio-Tos,i'' while the female is but a trifle under the 

 type measurements. 



The only previous definite record of the species is that from San 

 Francisco, Bolivian Chaco (Giglio-Tos). 



Subfamily VATIX.E. 

 *Oxyopsis lobeter Rehn. 



1907. Oxyopsis lobeter Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 159, 

 figs. 3, 4. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. January 12, 1910; March 22, 1909; May 15, 1909; 

 September 26, 1910. (Nos. 3 [cf] and 4 [9].) Two males, two 

 females. 



This species was previously known only from the female sex. The 

 present females are very similar to the typical specimens, the color 

 of the tegmina being more uniform than in the type and in this respect 

 more nearly resembling the paratype. 



The male sex may be recognized by the following summary of 

 differences from the female sex. 



AUotype: cf ; Misiones, Argentina. Januarj^ 12, 1910. (P. Jor- 

 gensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



Size medium (compared with the female) ; form moderately elong- 

 ate. Head more decidedly transverse than in the female; ocelli 

 large, placed in a triangle; facial shield similar to that of the male, 

 but more decidedly transverse ; antennae slightly longer than the head 

 and pronotum together. Pronotum differing from the female in such 

 respects as found in other species of the genus, the greatest width of 

 the supracoxal expansion contained five times in the length, the 

 greater portion of the collar and shaft subequal in width, the mod- 

 erately marked expansion well rounded; lateral margins sparsely 

 crenulate; median carina and transverse sulcus as in the female. 

 Tegmina slightly more than twice the length of the pronotum, apex 

 rotundato-rectangulate, hyaline with the marginal field coriaceous. 

 Wings surpassing the tips of the tegmina by about the length of the 



« Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Camp. Torino, XII, No. 302, pp. 14, 15. 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



collar of the pronotum, form of the apex of the same similar to that 

 of the female. Supra-anal plate transverse trigonal, with the 

 immediate apex narrowly emarginate; cerci moderately elongate; 

 subgenital plate considerably elongate, the margins converging 

 distad, styles rather short, closely placed, depressed. Cephalic 

 limbs in structure and armament similar to those of the female, but 

 slenderer and with the spines of the external margin of the tibise 

 sometimes numbering eleven. Median and cephalic limbs similar to 

 those of the female, but slenderer. 



General coloration essentially as in the female with the following 

 exceptions: base color more apple green than oir green; region of 

 the occiput washed with mars brown, the eyes of the same color; 

 tegmina hyaline with the coriaceous marginal field apple green, 

 narrowly edged with cream color, costal margin of the wings and the 

 apex of the same weakly washed with apple green, faintly edged with 

 cream; pronotum ochraceous buff on the shaft (probably due to 

 drying out) ; median and caudal limbs pale clay color distad passing 

 into pale oil green. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 45 . 5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 14. " 



Greatest width of pronotum 2.7 " 



Length of tegmen 32 . 5 " 



Greatest width of tegmen 6.5 " 



Greatest width of marginal field 2. " 



Length of cephalic femur 9.8 " 



Length of median femur 9.2 " 



Length of caudal femur 12.5 " 



Parastagmatoptera unipunctata (Burmeister). 



1838. M[antis] unipunctata Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, Abth. II, 

 pt. 1, p. 540. [Brazil.] 



Buenos Aires. May, 1911. One female. 



Embarcacion, Salta. April, 1911. One male. 



This species has been recorded from Buenos Aires (Burmeister) 

 in addition to the type locality, while a single female in the collection 

 of the Academy is labelled "Parana River." Burmeister states that 

 this is the most abundant species of Mantis about Buenos Aires. 



Stagmatoptera hyaloptera (Perty). 



1830-1834. Mantis hyaloptera Perty, Delect. Anim. Artie, p. 117, pi. 23, 

 fig. 6. [Amazon River.] 



Jujuy, Province of Jujuy. April, 1911. One male. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 299 



Tucuman, Province of Tucuman. July, 1911. "Very common." 

 One male. 



This form has been recorded from San Lorenzo, Jujuy (Giglio-Tos) 

 and Cordoba, Argentina (as the synonymous luna), as well as north- 

 ward as far as Guiana. 



Stagmatoptera precaria (LinnEeus). 



1758. [Gryllus (Ma7itis)] precarius Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Xth ed., I, p. 426. 

 ["America; Africa."] 



Mision€s. April 18, 1909. One male. 



Previous Argentine records of this species are from Tucuman and 

 Catamarca (Burmeister) and Buenos Aires (Serville). Burmeister 

 stated that he had not taken the species south of Rosario. The 

 same author notes that the individuals from the provinces (i.e., 

 Tucuman and Catamarca) average two to two and one-half inches 

 in length, while tropical Brazilian individuals are three to three and 

 one-half in length. The present specimen shows the following 

 measurements: length of body, 72 mm.; length of pronotum, 24; 

 greatest width of pronotum 5 ; length of tegmen, 53 ; greatest width 

 of tegmen, 14.5; width of marginal field, 4; length of cephalic 

 femur, 16. 



Zoolea lobipes (Olivier). 



1792. Mantis lobipes Olivier, Encycl. Meth., Ins., VII, p. 637. ["Tran- 

 quebar; coast of Coromandel."] 



Misiones. December, 1908. One male. 



This genus and species was previously known from Argentina only 

 by a single record from San Lorenzo, Jujuy (Giglio-Tos). The 

 published records show the range to extend from the Guianas west 

 to Peru and south to the northern edge of the Argentine Republic. 



*PhyllovateS iheringi (Saussure and Zehntner). 



1894. Theodytes iheringi Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., 

 I, p. 193. [Rio Grande do Sul, BrazU.] 



Misiones. November 24, 1909; November, 1910. (No. 8.) 

 Two females. 



This species was previously known only from the original reference. 

 Giglio-Tos^^ has recorded the allied P. paraUela, under the synonymic 

 name Theodytes surinamensis, from Buenos Aires. 



^'Boll. Mus. Zool. Atiat. Comp. Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 4. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Family PHASMIDiB. 

 Subfamily PYGIRHYNCHIN^. 

 * Canuleius ^^ inermis Redtenbacher. 



1906. C[amdeius] inermis Redtenbacher, Die Insekt. Fam. Phasmiden, 

 p. 68, pi. II, figs. 1, 2. [Theresopolis and Espirito Santo, Brazil.] 



Misiones. November 2, 1910. One female. 

 This specimen is considerably damaged, so that the characters of 

 the caudal limbs cannot be verified. 



Subfamily ANISOMORPHIN.E. 

 Agathemera millepunctata Redtenbacher. 



1906. A[gathemera] millepunctata Redtenbacher, ibid., p. 89, [Carmen de 

 Patagones, Prov. of Buenos Aires, Argentina.] 



La Paz, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 504 meters. December 15, 

 1908. One female. 



This specimen is slightly smaller than the original measurements, 

 but otherwise it agrees fully. The species is very distinct from 

 A. crassa, with material of which from Cruz del Eje, Prov. of Cordoba, 

 the present specimen has been compared. 

 *Aiii80inorpha dentata St&l. 



1875. A[nisomorpha] dentata StS,l, Recens. Orthopt., Ill, p. 95. [Santa 

 Catharina, Brazil.] 



Misiones. January 3, 1910; November 2, 1910. Two females. 



These specimens are somewhat smaller than the measurements 

 given by Stal and Redtenbacher, but are otherwise quite typical of 

 the species. This is the first record of the species from Argentina, 

 the previous ones, in addition to the type locality, being Matto 

 Grosso, Brazil, Paraguay and Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia. 



Subfamily PSEUDOPHASMINiE. 

 *Paraphasma marginale Redtenbacher. 



1906. P[arap}iasma\ marginale Redtenbacher, Die Insekt. Fam. Phasmiden, 

 p. 115. [Santos, Minas Geraes, Rio de Janeiro, Goyaz, Brazil; Paraguay.) 



Misiones. January 5, 1911; December 5, 1909. (No. 9.) One 

 male, one female. 



These specimens agree very well with the description of the species, 

 which is the same as that recorded by the author from Sapucay, 

 Paraguay, as Olcyphides fasciatus (female) and 0. hopii (male).^^ 



15 The individual from Sapucay, Paraguay, recorded by us (Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 161) as Ceroys coronatus (Thunberg) belongs to the genus 

 Canuleius, and we tentatively refer it to C. similis Redtenbacher {ibid., p. 68), 

 a very closely related form described from Theresopolis, Brazil. 



16 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 165. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



Redtenbacher considered marginale a close ally to the congeneric 

 fasciatum, from which it was separated by the lineate femora. 

 Gray's Phasma hopii was unknown to him and accordingly placed 

 doubtfully under the genus Stratocles. The original description of 

 fasciatum gives us no clue to the color of the femora. The presence 

 or absence of the lateral thoracic line of yellowish, the slightly 

 annulate antennae and the differences in the tegminal protuberance 

 used by us to separate the Sapucay material into hopii and fasciatus 

 have been shown by Redtenbacher to be individual in character. 



The localities given in the original description, with Sapucay, 

 Paraguay, are all that were previously known. 



Subfamily CLITUMNIN.^. 

 *Steleoxiphus oatastates Rehn. 



1907. Steleoxiphus catastates Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, 

 p. 163, figs. 5, 6. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. January 29, 1911; March 13, 1909; December 14, 

 1910. (Nos. 1, 2 and 8.) Two adult females, one immature male, 

 one immature female. 



The immature male shows conclusively that this genus is not the 

 opposite (female) sex of Paraleptynia Caudell, which was suggested as 

 a possibility in the original description of Steleoxiphus. The character 

 of the antennae, form of the head and proportions show the two to 

 be generically distinct, and in these respects the two sexes are very 

 similar. The immature male and female, both taken on December 

 14th, are similar in size, being somewhat more than half the length 

 of the adults. 



The anal segment of the male is compressed, carinate dorsad, more 

 strongly so distad, the distal margin obtuse-angulate emarginate; 

 supra-anal plate very minute, trigonal; cerci more than half the 

 length of the anal segment, crassate, subcylindrical, apex subacute; 

 subgenital plate hardly reaching the apex of the anal segment, apex 

 narrowly rotundato-subtuberculate. The immature female has the 

 subgenital operculum but slightly shorter proportionately than it is 

 in the adult. 



XIPHOPHASMA" n. gen. 



A member of the Clitumninae and related to Steleoxiphus Rehn and 

 Paraleptynia and Ceratiscus Caudell. From Steleoxiphus it can 

 readily be separated by the bispinose and broader head, the more 

 abbreviate metatarsi and the depressed and abbreviate antennae; 



" From i-Kpog, sword, and Phasma. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



from Paraleptijnia and Ceratiscus the new genus differs in the spinose 

 head, also from the former in the more abbreviate antennse and from 

 the latter in the narrower head, more abbreviate metatarsi and 

 non-lobate limbs. 



Head bispinose ; greatest width of the head less than the length of 

 the same; antennae short, composed of fifteen joints, the proximal 

 longer than broad, the next subquadrate, the third subequal to the 

 first in length, the fourth transverse, the remainder longitudinal and 

 tapering, the fifth and sixth less longitudinal than the succeeding ones, 

 all depressed. Median segment longitudinal, subequal to the head 

 in length. Cerci of female terete; subgenital plate of female greatly 

 elongate, lanceolate, compressed. Limbs non-lobate; tarsi abbreviate, 

 in no case a fourth the tibial length ; metatarsi of the cephalic limbs 

 slightly more than half the length of the tarsi, of the other 'limbs a 

 half or less than a half the length of the same. 



Type: X. missionum n, sp. 



Xiphophasma missionum n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Misiones, Argentina. December 18, 1910. (No. 7.) 

 (P. Jorgensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,214.] 



Size large; form very elongate. Head with the greatest width 

 contained one and one-half times in the length of the same; paired 

 horns placed between the caudal portions of the eyes, slightly diver- 

 gent and inclined slightly cephalad; eyes not 

 at all prominent, in fact slightly recessed, in 

 outline nearly circular; antennse as described 



^. „ v-Li. under the genus, their length about equal to 



Fig. 8. — Xiphophasma n i , , ^ ^ ^T i- -, 



missionum n. gen. that of the head and half of the pronotum; 



and sp. Lateral out- occipital margin with three moderately dis- 



Ime of head of tvpe. ... . 



( X 2.) ~ tmct indentations, the whole head narrowing 



caudad. Pronotum with its length subequal 



to that of the head caudad of the eyes, longitudinal, the median 



width very slightly greater than half of the length ; the lateral margins 



sinuate dorsad of the insertion of the coxae. Mesonotum about five 



and a half times the pronotal length, subequal in width in the greater 



portion of its length, faint traces of a median carina present. Meta- 



notum (including median segment) nearly four-fifths the mesonotal 



length, similar in structure to the mesonotum; medium segment 



not separated from the metanotum proper by a transverse sulcus. 



Abdomen with segments one to seven longitudinal, progressively 



increasing in length distad, eighth segment longitudinal, but little 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



more than half the length of the seventh segment, ninth segment 

 distinctly longitudinal, slightly longer than the eighth segment, 

 marinate, distal margin rectangulate-emarginate mesad, rounded 

 laterad; supra-anal plate rectangulate, merely the apex extending 

 caudad of the ninth segment; cerci acute, terete, not a third the 

 length of the ninth dorsal segment; subgenital plate enormously 

 elongate, the length equal to that of the five proximal abdominal 

 segments, of this length two-thirds is distad of the real apex of the 

 abdomen, V-shaped in section, compressed, acute, carinate ventrad. 

 Cephalic femur longer than the pro- and mesonotum together, 

 proximal flexure pronounced, carina subcristate; cephalic tibiae 

 slightly exceeding the femora, slender, moderately compressed; 

 cephalic metatarsi slightly longer than the remainder of the tarsal 

 joints. Median femora very slightly shorter than the mesonotum; 

 median tibiae very slightly longer than the femora; metatarsi slightly 



Fig. 9. — Xiphophasma missionum n. gen. and sp. Lateral outline of apex of 

 abdomen of type. (X 1|.) 



shorter than the remainder of the tarsal joints. Caudal femora 

 reaching to the distal margin of the fourth abdominal segment; 

 caudal tibiae hardly longer than the femora; caudal metatarsi very 

 slightly longer than the remainder of the tarsus. 



General color burnt umber, the head, pronotum, cephalic half of 

 the mesonotum, apex of the abdomen and the limbs dusted more 

 or less thickly with hoary white; antennae seal brown; eyes tawny 

 olive. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 118 . mm. 



Length of head 7.8 " 



Length of pronotum 4.8 " 



Length of mesonotum 27. " 



Length of metanotum (including median segment) 21 .5 " 



Length of cephalic femur 35.5 " 



Length of median femur 26.3 " 



Length of caudal femur * 30.5 " 



Length of subgenital plate 41.5 " 



The type of this very interesting genus and species is unique. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Ma\r,. 



Family AORIDID^. 

 Subfamily ACRYDIIN^. 

 Prototettix lobulatus (Stll). 



1860. Tetrix lobulata St^l, Kong. Svenska Freg. Eugenies Resa, Zool., I,, 

 p. 347. [Rio Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Misiones. April 5 and May 20, 1910. (No. 23.) One male, one 

 female. 



Embarcacion, Prov. of Salta. April, 1911. One male. 



The present species has- been recorded by Bolivar from Argentina 



without definite locality. 



*Apotettix bruneri Hancock. 



1906. ApoteUix bruneri Hancock, in Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, 

 p. 614. [Paraguay.] 



Embarcacion, Prov. of Salta. April, 1911. One male. 



The only other exact record is of the occurrence of the species at 

 Puerto Bertoni, Paraguay (Rehn), with the female from which place 

 the present specimen has been compared. 

 Tettigidea paratecta n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Misiones, Argentina. February 1, 1911. (P. Jor- 

 gensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,217.] 



Belonging to the section of the genus including chichimeca Saussure, 

 tecta Morse, annulipes Bruner and scudderi Bolivar. From chichimeca 

 and scudderi the present form can be readily distinguished by the 

 tectate dorsum, scudderi also having the femora narrower; from 

 annulipes the new form can be separated by the non-glabrous surface 

 and the blunter and much less produced vertex, no approach being 

 found to the type of T. prorsa, the vertex of which that of annulipes 

 is said to greatly resemble. From tecta, its closest ally, paratecta 

 can be separated by the more elevated and arcuate median carina 

 of the pronotum, the more regularly angulate cephalic margin of the 

 same, the less decidedly lineato-rugulose dorsum of the pronotum, the 

 less projecting vertex, the less thickened margins of the frontal costa,. 

 the more lanceolate tegmina and more finely sculptured pagina of the 

 caudal femora. 



Size medium (for the genus); form robust; surface rather evenly 

 chagrinous. Head with the greatest width contained about one and 

 one-third times in the depth of the same; fastigium with the carina 

 regularly arcuate when seen from above, obsolete immediately 

 laterad of the median carina, width of the fastigium subequal to that 

 of one of the eyes; median carina of the fastigium prominent, pro- 

 jecting moderately cephalad of the lateral carina of the fastigium, 

 when viewed from the side strongly arcuate and passing into the 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



305 



facial outline, which is arcuate with a slight sinuosity at the ocellus; 

 facial forks moderately separated, hardly diverging ventrad; eyes 

 considerably shorter than the depth of the infra-ocular portion of the 

 genffi, trigono-reniform in basal outline, moderately prominent when 

 seen from the dorsum. Pronotum tectate in section, the median 

 carina well elevated, in longitudinal section regularly arcuate with the 

 very faintest interhumeral flattening; cephalic margin of the pro- 

 notum almost rectangulate, the immediate angle very fine, reaching 

 to the base of the fastigial carina of the vertex; humeral angles not 

 at all prominent, rounded very broad obtuse-angulate ; apex reaching 



Pig 10,— Tettigidea parateda n. sp. Lateral outline of type. (X 8.) 



to the base of the genicular arches of the caudal femora, in general 

 form acute, the immediate apex blunted, slightly subulate; surface 

 of the dorsum with a number of very weak longitudinal lines, these 

 most numerous in the humeral region and all slightly latero-caudad 

 in general trend; lateral lobes with the greatest dorsal length slightly 

 greater than the greatest depth, with several glabrous areas dorsad, 

 caudal margin oblique-truncate, ventro-caudal angle acute, humeral 

 sinus very slight, rectangulate. Tegmina very small, 

 in length not exceeding that of the ventral margin of \ / 

 the lateral lobes of the pronotum, elongate-lanceolate, 

 the greatest exposed width contained nearly four times 

 in the length of the same, apex very narrowly rounded. 

 Cephalic and median limbs not at all lobate. Caudal 

 femora nearly equal to three-fourths of the length of 

 the pronotum, robust, moderately inflated, the greatest 

 width contained slightly more than twice in the length 

 of the same, pagina very finely sculptured; caudal 

 tibiee moderately robust, slightly expanded distad. 

 General color seal brown with the dorsum largely 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



fawn color and the venter pale ochraceous. The pale dorsal color is 

 clouded with the general color except for a clear section cephalad 

 on the pronotum and a reversed V-shaped section which has its apex 

 on the median carina between the shoulders, extending laterad over 

 the dorsum of the pronotum and the dorsal and lateral faces of the 

 caudal femora; median carina of the pronotum beaded with about 

 seven regularly placed areas of the dark general color. Median and 

 cephalic limbs with more or less complete annuli of the dark general 

 color on pale ochraceous. Eyes mars brown. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 9.6 mm. 



Length of pronotum .9. " 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum 3. " 



Length of tegmen. 1.7 " 



Length of caudal femur 6.5 " 



The type of this species is unique. 



* Tettigidea arcuata Bruner. 



1910. Tettigidea arcuata Bryner, Annals Carneg. Mus., VII, p. 135. 

 [Chapada, Brazil.] 



Misiones. July 7, 1910. (No. 23.) Male and female ''in copula." 

 These specimens are typical of the form, which was taken at 



Chapada in April, May, and June. 



Tettigidea multicostata Bolivar. 



1887. T[ettigidea] multicostata Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Entom. Belg., XXXL 

 p. 299. [Brazil.] 



Misiones. April 4, 1910. One male. 



We have before us individuals from Caiza, Bolivian Chaco, Salta 

 and Tucuman, Argentina, and Sapucay, Paraguay, with which the 

 Misiones specimens have been compared. 



The species is now known to range from Brazil (specifically 

 Corumba [Bruner]) and the Bolivian Chaco (Caiza and San Francisco 

 [Gigho-Tos]), south to Tucuman [Bruner] and across Paraguay to the 

 Misiones territory. 



Subfamily PROSCOPIN.^. 



Tetanorhynchus borellii Giglio-Tos. 



1897. T[etanorhynchus] borellii Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat.-Comp., 

 Torino, XII, No. 302, p. 18. [Caiza and San Francisco, Bolivian Chaco; 

 San Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina.] 



Embarcacion, Prov. of Salta. April, 1911. Two males, one 



female. 



Jujuy, Prov. Jujuy. April, 1911. Two females. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



The above-listed specimens have been compared with a pair of 

 cotypes in the collection of the Academy, received from Dr. Borelli, 

 taken at Caiza and San Lorenzo, and found to be inseparable. One 

 Jujuy female undoubtedly had an injury to the rostrum which 

 retarded the development of the characteristic clavate expansion of 

 the same, although the almost equally characteristic cruciform sec- 

 tion of that portion is decided. 



The original localities and those given above are all we know for 

 the species. 



Cephalocoema costulata Burmeister. 



1880. Cephalocf£tna costulata Burmeister, Abhandl. Natui-forsch. Gesell., 

 Halle, XV, heft I, p. 9, pi. 1, figs. 5-7. [Argentina.] 



Misiones. October 18, 1909; December 12-18, 1909; January 

 24, 1910; March 12-18, 1909; March 24, 1910; April 4-5, 1910. 

 (Nos. 3, 4 and 5.) Three adult males, ten adult females, one imma- 

 ture female. 



These specimens average slightly larger than individuals from 

 Cordoba and Carcarana, Argentina, but smaller than Sapucay, 

 Paraguay, representatives. The number of spines on the dorso-lateral 

 margin of the caudal tibise is very unreliable as a diagnostic character, 

 as an examination of the present series, which unquestionably repre- 

 sents but a single species, shows the number to range from eight to 

 twenty, while in a single specimen the disparity in the number of 

 spines on these margins of the two tibiae is as much as four (eight and 

 twelve) . 



This species is found over a considerable area, having been recorded 

 from as far north as Matto Grosso, Brazil (Bruner), and Aguiarenda, 

 Bolivian Chaco (Giglio-Tos) , south to the Rio Colorado (Bruner), 

 east to Montevideo, Uruguay (Brunner), west to Tucuman, Argen- 

 tina (Giglio-Tos). 



Cephaloccema lineata Brunner. 



1890. Cephalocoema lineata Brunner, Verhandl. K.-K. Zoolog.-botan. 

 Gesell., Wien, XL, p. 118, pi. V, fig. 11. [Mendoza, Argentina.] 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. February 5, 

 1909. One male. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. February 

 24, 1908. One female. 



Potrerillos, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,368 meters. February 

 20, 1908. Two females. 



This constitutes the second report of the occurrence of this very 

 remarkable species. As a male was previously unknown, a few notes 

 on the points of difference from the female may be of interest. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Size rather large; form extreme elongate. Proportions of the head 

 essentially as in the female; eyes more prominent. Pronotum much 

 slenderer than in the female, the portion cephalad of the insertion 

 of the cephalic limbs narrower than the portion caudad of the same, 

 expansion at the cephalic margin very decided as well as that at the 

 insertion of the limbs. Dorsum of the pronotum, mesonotum and 

 metanotum more or less distinctly tricarinate mesad, the carinse being 

 closely placed, traces of the same present in the female. Supra-anal 

 plate short, lanceolate, apex acute; cerci extremely short, simple; 

 subgenital plate elongate-lanceolate, subequal in length to that 

 portion of the pronotum caudad of the insertion of the limbs, strongly 

 compressed, acute. Limbs very slender, the median and cephalic 

 almost filiform, the caudal femora almost imperceptibly inflated. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 103 . mm. 



Dorsal length of head 25 . 



Length of pronotum 23 . 



Width of pronotum at the insertion of limbs 2 . 



Length of mesonotum and metanotum 6.2 



Length of cephalic femur 22 . 



Length of median femur 21.5 



Length of caudal femur -. 35 . 



Length of subgenital plate 1 1 . 



Astroma compactum Brunner. 



1891. Astroma compactum Brunner, Verhandl. K.-K. Zoolog.-botan. 

 Gesell., Wien, XL, p. 120, pi. V, figs. I2a-b. [Mendoza, Argentina; 

 Santiago, Chile.] 



Alto Pencosa, Prov. of San Luis. Elev. 660 meters. February 

 2, 1908; December 22, 1908. One male, one immature female. 



La Paz, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 504 meters. January 29, 1908. 

 One female. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. March 

 18, 1907; December 6, 1907; January 15, 1908; February 4-11, 

 1908; March 6, 1908. One male, six females, two immature females. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. November 

 10-15, 1907; December 13-18, 1907; January 5, 1908; March 27-29, 

 1908; April 12 and 24, 1908; May 7 and 13, 1908; June 5-18, 

 1908. Ten males, nineteen females, six immature individuals of 

 both sexes. 



Blanco Encalada, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,068 meters. Feb- 

 ruary 16, 1908. One female. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



San Ignacio, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,235 meters. March 15 

 .and 22, 1908; April 5, 1908. Four males, two females. 



This very extensive series is of considerable interest, demonstrating 

 as it does that the species is undoubtedly common within its range 

 and that considerable variation in size and sculpture occurs. 



The size extremes of the series are: length of body, d^ 36.7-45.5 

 mm., 9 63.5-82.5; length of head, d' 5.3-6.7, 9 8.5-10; length of 

 rostrum, cf 1.2-1.5, 9 2.5-3.8; length of pronotum, cT 7.2-9.8, 

 9 11.2-13.8; length of tegmen, 9 2.5-2.7; length of cephalic femur, 

 cf 7.1-9, 9 9.3-12.6; length of caudal femur, d' 14.8-18, 9 20.8- 

 27.5. Both extremes of the male sex are from Mendoza, the minimum 

 of the female sex from Blanco Encalada and the maximum from 

 Chacras de Coria. 



The wings of the female vary in the shape of the exposed coriaceous 

 portion, this ranging from broad ovate to elongate elliptical, the size 

 variation of the same being considerable and in no way correlated 

 with the general size. The rostrum exhibits a very appreciable 

 amount of variation in the female, ranging from a length hardly 

 greater than that of the eye to one and one-half times the length of 

 the same. The spiniform tubercles on the cephalic and caudal 

 margins of the pronotum and the spiniform lobes of the mesonotum 

 vary considerably in prominence, the latter also in the degree of their 

 erection, being vertical in some and decidedly inclined caudad in 

 other individuals. The linear rugosities of the body show some 

 variation in prominence which does not appear to be correlated with 

 the development of the tubercles and lobes. 



The only evidence of geographic variation seen in the series is that 

 noticed in the slenderer pronotum of the male and immature female 

 from Alto Pencosa, a locality somewhat removed from those at which 

 the other specimens were taken. 



The color varies from dull brown through gray-browns to hoary 

 white, but how much of the brownish coloration is due to discolora- 

 tion cannot be determined. Some individuals are partially blackish, 

 but this is unquestionably due to discoloration, as the specimens were 

 not eviscerated. 



The following diagnosis shows the features in which the previously 

 undescribed male differs from the female. 



Size small; form more elongate than in the other sex; surface much 

 smoother than in the female. Head with its dorsal length two-thirds 

 that of the pronotum, considerably constricted caudad of the eyes, 

 the whole head considerably elevated cephalo-dorsad ; fastigium 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



horizontal, much shorter than in the female, hardly more than half 

 the length of the eye, apex very blunt; eyes very prominent, ovate 

 in outline, their length more than half that of the proximal portion 

 of the dorsum of the head; antennae slightly longer than the eye^ 

 five-jointed. Pronotum subcylindrical, subequal in width except 

 for the expansion at the cephalic margin and the insertion of the 

 cephalic limbs, the former margin truncate mesad with a pair of low 

 flanking tubercles and obliquely truncate laterad; width at the 

 insertion of the cephalic limbs contained two and one-half times in 

 the length of the pronotum, caudal margin non-tuberculate; surface 

 of the dorsum without the prominent ridges found in the female. 

 No tegmina or wings present. Caudal margin of the mesonotum 

 non-tuberculate. Abdomen with the medio-longitudinal carina 

 indicated only caudad; supra-anal plate sublanceolate, apex well 

 rounded, a prominent medio-longitudinal sulcus present on the 

 proximal two-thirds; cerci simple, styliform, short, blunt; subgenital 

 plate moderately rostrate, subacute, carinate ventrad, dorsal face 

 of the apex flattened, sulcate, the apical margin slightly cleft. Limbs 

 slightly more robust than in the female; caudal femora slightly more 

 bullate, the tips of the femora reaching to the distal margin of the 

 sixth abdominal segment. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 40 . mm. 



Length of pronotum 8.3 " 



Greatest width of the pronotum at the insertion of the 



cephalic limbs 3 . 



Length of remaining thoracic segments 6 . 



Length of cephalic femur 7.3 



Length of median femur 7 . 



Length of caudal femur 15.5 



The only information with the specimens on the habits of the 

 species is on several Mendoza individuals labelled ''On Larrea." This 

 is apparently Covillea (Larrea of authors) divaricata, a shrub which Mr. 

 Jorgensen tells us constitutes an important part of the vegetation of 

 the Mendoza region. It is probable that the insect spends a con- 

 siderable part of its life on the twigs of the bush, which it simulates 

 very well and where it would be well protected. This proclivity is 

 found in certain species of Orthoptera occurring on the allied C 

 tridentata of the Lower Sonoran deserts of North America. 



Nine of the pairs in the series were taken "in copula." The 

 earliest seasonal date that is represented by adults is November 15, 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



a single male from Mendoza bearing that date, the latest June 18, 

 while the first date for a pair in copula is March 6. 



*Astroma foliatum Brunner. 



1890. Aslroma foliatum Brunner, Verhandl. K.-K. Zoolog.-botan. Gesell., 

 Wien, XL., p. 121, pi. V, fig. 12c'8 [Arannias, Chile.] 



La Paz, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 504 meters. Januaiy 29, 1908; 

 December 15, 1908. One male, two females. 



Alto Pencosa, Prov. of San Luis. Elev. 660 meters. December 

 22, 1908. One nearly adult female. 



The present specimens are referred to this species with some 

 uncertainty, as certain points of difference from the original descrip- 

 tion are evident, although how much weight to allow these differences 

 is a matter of question, as series of the allied A. chloropterum and 

 compadum show considerable variation in size and sculpture. 



Brunner knew" only the female of the species, and his type specimen 

 was considerably smaller than either of the adult females before us, 

 although larger than the immature one. This size difference is, 

 however, about equalled in our series of compactum. 



Brunner used the serrulate or smooth condition of the margins of 

 the ovipositor jaws as one of the major division characters for the 

 species of the genus, placing chloropterum and compactum in the 

 serrulate section and granulosum and foliatum in the other. As a 

 matter of fact, chloropterum is very similar to foliatum in having verj^ 

 weak serrulations on the margins of the dorsal valves, while com- 

 pactum has the serrulations very decided. Aside from size, the 

 description oi foliatum, based on the female sex, agrees with that sex 

 of the present series in all the characters except the number of spines 

 on the margins of the caudal tibiae and in the character of the caudal 

 margin of the pronotum. The number of spines is unimportant, as a 

 count shows they run from nine to twelve on the external margin 

 (Brunner gives thirteen) and from nine to eleven on the internal 

 (Brunner gives eleven). One specimen has nine on each of the 

 margins and another has a difference of two spines on the same 

 margins of the two tibiae. The pronotum is described as "margine 

 antico et postieo in lobos binos foliatos, obtusos productis," and in 

 the present material these margins are strongly bispinose, but hardly 

 developed in foliate lobes. 



18 Given in error as "Fig. 12B" in the text, but the explanation to the plates 

 shows that "B" refers to compactum and "C" to foliatum. 

 21 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



The measurements of the present specimens are as follows : 



Male. Female. Female. Imm. Female. 

 La Paz. La Paz. La Paz. Alto Pencosa. 

 mm. mm. mm. mm. 



Length of body 60. 101. 93. 67. 



Length of head 10.8 19. 15.5 12.2 



Length of rostrum 5.8 11.8 8.2 6.2 



Length of pronotum 12.5 20.7 19.5 13.2 



Length of tegmen 4. 3.5 2. 



Length of cephalic femur 10.5 14.3 13. 9. 



Length of caudalfemur 20.5 32.5 30. 19.2 



As the male has not been previously reported, the differential 

 characters of that sex may be of service.^^ 



Size rather small; form very elongate. Head very similar to that 

 of the female, but the eyes are more prominent and the depth of the 

 head caudad of the eyes is subequal for a greater distance and not 

 regularly increasing in depth as in the female. Pronotum with the 

 greatest (supra-coxal) width contained about five times in the 

 length of the same; cephalic margin with two low nodes instead of 

 high spiniform tubercles; caudal margin unarmed; no lateral carinse 

 present as in the other sex; the general form of the pronotum more 

 subequal in width and not gradually enlarging caudad as in the 

 female. No trace of tegmina and wings. Narrowest portions of 

 the mesonotum and metanotum subequal in width to the pronotum ; 

 mesonotum with no spines on the margin. Abdomen not multi- 

 carinate, a single median carina indicated; supra-anal plate lanceo- 

 late, the apex not rounded, surface sUghtly excavate, not sulcate; 

 cerci simple, tapering, very short, blunt; subgenital plate greatly 

 produced, rostrate, subdeplanate, dorsal surface sulcate, apical 

 margin strongly divided, hardly carinate ventrad. Limbs slenderer 

 than in the female; caudal femora reaching to the caudal margin of 

 the fifth abdominal segment. 



Subfamily ACRIDIN^. 

 *Hyalopteryx rufipennis Charpentier. 



1845. Hijalopteryx rufipennis Charpentier, Orthopt. Desc. et Depict., 

 tab. 46. [Brazil.] 



Misiones. January 1, 1910; January 3, 1909; December 10-12, 

 1909; December 12, 1910. (No. 13.) Nine males, two females. 

 These specimens are quite uniform in color and when compared 



" The data here given are from the La Paz male measm-ed above, this being 

 the allotype of the species. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



with the allied asinus Rehn and specularis Bruner are found to be 

 quite distinct. The males show some variation in size, the extremes 

 of tegminal length being twenty-eight and thirty millimeters. 



The information with several specimens taken December 12, 1909, 

 and 1910 is to the effect that the species was ''very common in the 

 Campo." 



Bruner has 'recently recorded a single' female specimen of this 

 species from Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil, but otherwise it has 

 not been correctly recorded since the original description. The 

 present author recorded specimens of the then undescribed specularis 

 as this species, but later corrected his error. 



Eutryxalis gracilis (Giglio-Tos). 



1897. Hiyalopteryx] gracilis Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Anat. Comp., Torino, 

 XII, No. 302, p. 22. [San Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina; Caiza, BoUvian 

 Chaco.l 



Misiones. January 11; December 14, 1910. (No. 24.) Two 

 males, two females. 



Buenos Aires. February 20, 1909; May 1, 1907. Four females. 



One female has the dorsal aspect purplish, similar to an individual 

 of the same sex from Carcarana, Argentina. 



The species has been recorded from as far north as Caiza, Bolivian 

 Chaco, and Sapucay, Paraguay, south to the Rio Colorado, west to 

 Jujuy, Argentina, east to the Rio de la Plata and the Misiones. 

 Truxalis brevicornis (Johannson). 



1764. Gryllus brevicornis Johannson, Amoen. Acad., VI, p. 398. [North 

 America (Pennsylvania^").] 



Misiones. February 20, 1909; April 20, 1909. Two males. 

 Buenos Aires. February 14-26, 1909; March 7, 1909. Five 

 females. 



A widely distributed American sj^ecies found as far south as the 

 Rio Colorado of Argentina. 

 Orphula pagana (Stai). 



1860. Gomphocerus {H yalopteryx) paganus St&l, Kong, Svenska Freg. 

 Eugenics Resa, Zool., I, Ins., p. 339. [Rio Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Misiones. March 27, 1909; April 30, 1910; May 5-6, 1910; 

 December 12, 1910. (Nos. 7 and 8.) Ten males, eight females. 



This interesting series has been compared with thirteen other 

 individuals of the genus from localities in Brazil and Paraguay. 

 It is evident that considerable individual variation in several charac- 



^ The original material was credited to DeGeer, and he subsequently says 

 {Mem. Ins., Ill, p. 499) he received the species from Pennsylvania, sent by 

 Acrelius. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



ters is present in the species, while it also passes into the following 

 form which is merely a geographic race. 



The size varies considerably, even in series from the same locality, 

 while the coloration is modified by the variable intensity of the 

 blackish or brownish postocular bars which margin the lateral carinse 

 ventrad. The dorsum of the head and pronotum is either uniform in 

 color or supplied with a pair of narrow velvet}^ blaxik lines, which 

 diverge caudad and margin the lateral carinse on their internal edge. 

 These lines are variable in intensity and also in continuity, those on 

 the head sometimes being parallel and again regularly divergent and 

 continuous with their pronotal section. Several individuals from 

 the Misiones and Sao Paulo, Brazil, are more or less completely 

 sprinkled with fine blackish-brown punctations, in this respect resem- 

 bling similarly colored individuals of Chloealtis conspersa and Psolaessa 

 texana. 



The lateral carinse of the pronotum are variable in character, in 

 some individuals being decidedly discontinuous at the transverse 

 sulcus and continuous in others. In the latter specimens the carinse 

 are slightly but regularly divergent through their entire length, 

 while in the other type they are more or less decidedly offset laterad 

 at the sulcus, subparallel on the prozona and slightly divergent or 

 (more frequently) subparallel on the metazona. These two types 

 have no geographic significance, cannot be correlated with size, and 

 in color only that all of the continuous type have the supplementary 

 dorsal lines of black. Some individuals are almost intermediate 

 in the character of the carinse, and similar variation is found in 

 0. pagana minor. 



The typical form of the species ranges from Rio Janeiro, Brazil 

 west to at least Formosa, Argentina, extending south only as far as 

 Resistencia Chaco and Misiones, Argentina, northward and westward 

 apparently grading into 0. p. minor, specimens from Chapada and 

 Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil, being nearer cotypes of Giglio-Tos' 

 form. 



Orphula pagana minor (Giglio-Tos). 



1897. M[etaleptea] minor Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp., Torino, 

 XII, No. 302, p. 23. [San Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina; Caiza and Aguai- 

 renda, Bolivian Chaco.] 



Jujuy, Prov, of Jujuy. April, 1911. One male. 

 After careful study of all available material, we are able to amphfy 

 our previous comments on this form^^ arid demonstrate that it is but 



21 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 17. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



a geographic race of pagana. The Jujuy male fully agrees with the 

 cotypic material, and typical individuals of the two forms can be 

 separated by the following features: 



A. — Form more robust; tegmina broader, less elongate; head 

 broader, eyes prominent, shorter, fastigium broad 0. pagana. 



AA. — Form slenderer; tegmina more elongate, narrower; head 

 narrower, eyes less prominent, longer, fastigium narrow, more 

 elongate 0. pagana minor. 



This race is prol^ably restricted in its typical form to the Bolivian 

 Chaco and the adjacent portions of Argentina (Jujuy). Material 

 from Chapada and Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil, is rather inter- 

 mediate between the present subspecies and true pagana, but some- 

 what closer to minor. 

 *Amblytropidia robusta Bruaer. 



1906. AmhUjlropidia robusta Brunei', Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 631. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. April 5 and 23, 1910; May 5, 1910. One male, three 

 females. 



These individuals are inseparable from Sapucay specimens. One 

 female has the dorsum washed with dull green, as mentioned by 

 Bruner. 



The species is only known from the type locality, Puerto Bertoni, 

 Paraguay, and the Misiones. 

 Sinipta dalmani Stai. 



1860. Gomphocems {Sinipta) Dalmani St&l, Kong. Svenska Fregatt. Eugenics 

 Resa, ZooL, I, Ins., p. 340. [Montevideo, Uruguay.] 



Alto Pencosa, Province of San Luis. Elev. 660 meters. December 

 20-22, 1908. Seven males, one female. 



These specimens have been compared with two pairs in the 

 Academy collection from Carcarana, Argentina, collected by Bruner. 

 The female of the present series is the only one of the dozen now 

 before us which does not possess supplementary pronotal carinse. 

 The coloration of this individual is essentially the same as the other 

 two of that sex, but there is no trace of the carinse. Doubtless this 

 genus is similar in this respect to Eriteitix, which has the supple- 

 mentary carinse present or absent in the same species from the same 

 locality.22 



The locaUties from which this species has been recorded are Cor- 

 doba, Carcarana, and Alto Pencosa, Argentina; Sapucay, Paraguay, 

 and Montevideo, Uruguay. 



2 Vide Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 625. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Parorphula pallidinota Bruner. 



1900. P[arorphila] pallidinota Bruner, Sec. Rep. Merch. Locust Invest. 

 Comm. Buenos Aires, p. 26. [Carcarana, Argentina.] 



Caucete, Prov. of San Juan. Elev. 567 meters. January 13, 

 1909. One male, two females. 



Beunos Aires. May 3, 1907. One female. 



This species has previously been recorded only from Carcarana. 

 There is considerable variation in coloration, several shades of 

 yellowish brown and pale brown being the dorsal color, this dis- 

 tinctly paler than the lateral color in all but one specimen. The 

 latter has the dorsal region lineate and finely speckled with the 

 overlying brown of the lateral color. One specimen has the marginal 

 field of the tegmina greenish. 



*Sisaiitum gracilicorne (Bruner). 



1910. Orphula gracilicornis Bruner, Entom. News, XXI, p. 301. [Puerto 

 Bertoni, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. March 15 and May 1, 1909. Two males. 

 These specimens have been compared with two topotypic females 

 previously recorded by us.-^ 



Orphulella punctata (DeGeer). 



1773. Acrydium pundalum DeGeer, Mem. I'Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 503, pi. 42, 

 fig. 12. [Surinam.] 



Misiones. March 24, 1909; April 4 and 30, 1910; August 4, 1909; 

 September 1, 1909; December 12 and 14, 1910. (Nos. 10 and 25.) 

 Eight males, eleven females. 



San Juan, Prov. of San Juan. Elev. 673 meters. January 14-20, 

 1909. One male. 



Caucete, Prov. of San Juan. Elev. 567 meters. January 13, 1909. 

 One male. 



Pedregal, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 696 meters. September 

 20-22, 1906; December 1-18, 1906. Five males, one female. 



A careful examination of this series and that already contained 

 in the Academy collection, convinces us that our former position 

 regarding the synonymy of elegans and intricata with this species^* 

 is correct. Bruner in his last table of species of the genus^^ gives 

 full specific rank to these "forms." The San Juan, Caucete and 

 Pedregal material would under his arrangement be referred to his 

 new elongata, based on a single female from Corumbd, Brazil. 



23 Entom. News, XXII, p. 250. 



^ Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 27, 28. 



25 Ann. Carneg. Mus., VIII, pp. 10-12. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



These individuals are typical of the new ''form," which is merely 

 a long-winged phase of punctata, possibly the exclusive or pre- 

 dominating form in certain regions, but found also in a number of 

 localities as we have it in our series from Sapucay, Paraguay (two 

 individuals) and the Misiones (one individual). In the San Juan 

 series green is the predominating color in the females, although one 

 of that sex is brown, as is the Pedregal female. The Misiones series 

 is, with the exception of the ''elongata" individual, "elegans" and 

 "intricata" inextricably confused, with typical individuals and 

 intergrades. 



The species is found over the greater portion of tropical America 

 south at least to the parallel of Buenos Aires. 



Toxopterus miniatus Bolivar. 



1890. Toxopterus tniniatus Bolivar, Anales Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., XIX, 

 p. 314. [Cumbase, Peru.] 



Misiones. March 3-29, 1907. Four males, one female. 



These specimens are inseparable from individuals from Sapucay, 

 Paraguay, and Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil. In addition to these 

 localities, it has been reported from Rio Janeiro, Bolivia, extreme 

 northern Argentina, and several Ecuadorean localities. 



Fenestra bohlsii Giglio-Tos. 



1895. Fenestra bohlsii Giglio-Tos, Zoolog. Jahrbiicher, Abth. Syst., VIII, 

 p. 807. [Paraguay.] 



Bompland, Misiones. December 10. One immature female. 

 This species is known to range from central Paraguay (Sapucay) 

 and the Misiones, south to Cordoba and Carcarana, Argentina. 



Staurorhectus longicornis Giglio-Tos. 



1897. Staurorhectus longicornis Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp., 

 Torino, XII, No. 302, p. 26. [San Lorenzo and Tala, Argentina; Caizd, 

 Bolivian Chaco.] 



Misiones. January 12, 1911; February 24, 1910; May 5, 1910. 

 (Nos. 17 and 36.) Two males, one female. 



Bompland, Misiones. December 1, 1910. One immature male, 

 one immature female. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. 1906. 

 One female. 



The female specimen from Chacras de Coria has the lateral carinse 

 of the pronotum more strongly constricted mesad than in the majority 

 of the females of the species, and subobsolete between the first and 

 third transverse sulci. The coloration of this individual is different 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



from the types previously given by the author,^^ having the discoidal 

 field of the tegmina with quadrate maculations and the marginal 

 field largely ochraceous, the general appearance of the individual 

 suggesting certain species of the genus Scyllina. 



The range of this species extends from the Province of Mendoza 

 (Chacras de Coria) and Cordoba northward. 



* Staurorhectus glaucipes Rehn. 



1906. Staurorhectus glaucipes Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, 

 p. 34, figs. 9, 10. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. December 12, 1910. (No. 4.) Four males. 



Bompland, Misiones. December 1, 1910. One male. 



These specimens have been compared with paratypic females. 

 We feel compelled to differ from Bruner^^ in placing this species in a 

 genus {Aynblysca'pheus) distinct from Staurorhectus longicornis, the 

 type of the latter genus. We have examined a considerable number 

 of specimens of the two species and find that the two characters given 

 as diagnostic of Amhlyscapheus are not in this case important enough 

 to be of generic value. These two are the "entire absence of 

 lateral carinse on the pronotum" and the "valves of the ovipositor 

 very blunt." The first character is one which is very strongly 

 approached if not absolutely reached in our series of longicornis, 

 while the second character, although constant, is of slight degree, 

 not worthy in the present case of generic value. The claim of the 

 genus Amhlyscapheus for recognition is, however, completely 

 destroyed by its author in the recent description of a species of the 

 genus Staurorhectus, S. inter medius,-^ which has as characters the 

 following: "lateral carinse of the pronotum almost obliterated on 

 the anterior lobe" and "valves of ovipositor similar to those of 

 Amhlyscapheus glaucipes Rehn (lineatus Bruner)." 



As the male was previously unknown, the following are its principal 

 differences from the opposite sex. 



Size small; form similar to that of the female. Head with the 

 eyes slightly more prominent than in the female, face more retreating 

 than in the other sex; interspace between the eyes distinctly narrower 

 than the width of one of the eyes; frontal costa with the margins 

 more subparallel and the sulcus deeper than in the female; antennae 

 as long as the caudal femur, slightly deplanate proximad. Tegmina 



26 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 33, 34. 



2^ Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 632. The species Amhlyscapheus lineatus 

 equals S. glaucipes as stated by us {Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 167) and 

 later admitted by Bruner (Ann. Carneg. Mus., VIII, p. 31). 



^Ann. Carneg. Mus., VIII, p. 31. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



with the distal portion broader and less attenuate than in the female. 

 Interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly more longitudinal 

 than in the female; metasternal lobes subattingent. Caudal 

 femora slightly more robust than in the opposite sex. 

 Coloration similar to that of the female. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 16 . mm. 



Length of pronotum 3.3 



Length of tegmen 12 .5 



Length of caudal femur 11.8 



Sapucay, Paraguay, and the Misiones are the only known localities 

 for the species. 

 Euplectrotettix conspersus Bruner. 



1900. Euplectrotettix conspersus Bruner, Sec. Rep. Merch. Locust Invest. 

 Comm. Buenos Aires, p. 40.^ [Eastern slopes of the Andes at Mendoza, 

 Argentina.] 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. April 

 10, 1907. One female. 



This specimen fullj^ agrees with a cotypic individual from Mendoza, 

 loaned by Prof. Bruner. Our specimen is grayer with the darker 

 maculations more decided, but these differences are purely individual. 



The species is only known from the Mendoza region. 

 Euplectrotettix schulzi Bruner. 



1900. Euplectrotettix Schulzi Bruner, ibid., p. 41. [Vicinity of Cordoba, 

 Argentina.] 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. April 

 7, 1907. One male. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. April 24, 1908; 

 May 11, 1908. Two females. 



We have before us several typical specimens of this species loaned 

 by Prof. Bruner and we are forced to the conclusion that he erred 

 in associating female specimens with converging lateral carinse 

 to the pronotum with males having those carinae non-converging. 

 The former are to our mind prasinus, which varies in the coloration 

 of the dorsum of the pronotum. Our two females agree with the 

 males in the character of the lateral carinse and the coloration. One 

 of the females is larger than the other, the measurements of the two 

 being as follows : 



23 Fig. 14 on page 41 of this paper is given as E. conspersus, but we are led to 

 believe from typical material of all of the species, kindly loaned by Prof. Bruner, 

 and our present series, that it represents prasinus. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Length of body 31. mm. 24. mm. 



Length of pronotum 5.5 " 4.5 " 



Length of tegmen 20+ " 17. '' 



Length of caudal femur 17.8 " 12.8 " 



The range of this species is now known to extend as far west as the 



eastern foot of the Andes. 



Euplectrotettix prasinus Brunei. 



1900. Euplectrotettix prasinus Bruner, ibid., p. 42, fig. 14 (erroneously titled 

 conspersus). [Cordoba, Argentina.] 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. February 

 23, 1907. One male. 



Cordillera de Mendoza. March 20, 1908. One female. 



It is evident that this species has at least two color phases, one 

 largely green and the other several shades of brownish, the latter in 

 the extreme condition with little contrast in tones. In addition to 

 these phases there is one form which has the dorsum of the pronotum 

 uniform in color, and another with broad lateral longitudinal iDars of 

 velvety black on the same. The above-listed female and a typical 

 female from Cordoba, loaned by Prof. Bruner, have the uniform 

 pronotum, one in the green phase, the other in the brown phase. 

 The Chacras de Coria male and a female from Cordoba, from Bruner 

 and labelled schulzi by him, have the dorsum of the pronotum 

 barred, the Chacras de Coria male being a well-contrasted brownish 

 individual and the female strongly approaching the green phase. 



The lateral carinae of the pronotum are the same in all of the- 

 specimens, converging caudad to the first transverse sulcus, thence 

 regularly diverging. In the male the tegmina are proportionately 

 longer than in any other species of the genus and the whole form of 

 the same sex is decidedly compressed. 



The measurements of the above-mentioned specimens are as follows : 



Male Female 



Chacras Female Female Cordillera 



de Coria. Cordoba. Cordoba, de Mendoza. 



mm. mm. mm. mm. 



Length of body 20. 23.5 31.3" 25.5 



Length of pronotum 4.2 4.6 5. 5.1 



Length of tegmen 20. 20.5 21.5 20.8 



Length of caudal femur ... 13.2 14.4 15.5 15.5 



This species is known only from the Provinces of Cordoba and 

 Mendoza, Argentina. 



Abdomen greatly and abnormally distended. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



Scyllina picta (Bruner). 



1900. P[lectrotettix] pidus Bruner, ibid., p. 38, fig. 13. [Provinces of Cor- 

 doba and Santa Fe, Argentina.] 



Misiones. January 12, 1911. (No. 38.) One female. 



Corrientes, Prov. of Corrientes. Elev. 76 meters. IMarcli 3, 

 1909. One male, one female. 



Buenos Aires. May 1-3, 1907. One male, twa females. 



La Carlota, Prov. of Cordoba. Elev. 142 meters. May 7, 1907. 

 One female. 



Alto Pencosa, Prov. of San Luis. Elev. 660 meters. January 30, 



1908. One female. 



San Juan, Prov. of San Juan. Elev. 673 meters. January 20, 



1909. (No. 41.) Four males. 



Cordillera de Mendoza. November 26, 1906. One female. 



This series gives more information regarding the distribution of 

 this typically Argentine species than all we previously possessed. 

 In the present series are all of the extreme points of the range of the 

 species, this being from the Misiones, Corrientes and San Juan, 

 south to Buenos Aires and west to the Cordillera de Mendoza. 



Stirapleura bruneri Rehn. 



1906. Stirapleura bruneri Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 49. 

 ["Argentina from the Pampa Central, extending into Uruguay to the 



eastward."] 



Misiones. December 14, 1910. Two males. 



Buenos Aires. May 3, 1907. One male, five females. 



This series is found to be identical with specimens from Carcarana, 

 Argentina, which we select as the type locality of the species.^^ 



The females all have greenish more or less the predominating 

 color, all of the males having their patterns in browns and ochres 

 without any indication of green. In extreme greenish specimens 

 from Buenos Aires, this color is that of all the light areas of the 

 sides and dorsum, while in the other extreme of that phase the only 

 decidedly green sections are the face, gense and humeral streak of the 

 tegmina. 



What is probably this species was recorded by Berg^^ ^s Steno- 

 bothrus signatipeyinis (Blanchard) from Cerro Blanco, Nueva Roma, 

 and the Naran-Choyque, southwestern Buenos Aires. The same 



^1 The name bruneri was given to replace S. signatipennis Bruner, 1900 (not of 

 Blanchard, 1851), the distribution of which, given above, was all that was cited 

 by Bruner for the species. We possess two pairs determined by him, from 

 ■Carcarana, and we here designate this place as the type locaht3^ 



32 Enlom. Zeit. Stettin, XLII, p. 38. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May,. 



author credited the species to Chile (apparently after Blanchard and 

 in reference to true signatipennis) and Uruguay. 



Subfamily (EDIPODINiE. 



Trimerotropis pallidipennis (Burmeister). 



1838. 0[edipoda] pallidipennis Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, Abth. 

 II, pt. 1, p. 641. [Zimapan, Hidalgo, Mexico.] 



Alto Pencosa, Prov. of San Luis. Elev. 660 meters. November 

 21-22, 1908. Four males. 



La Paz, Mendoza. Elev. 504 meters. November 15, 1908. One 

 female. 



Pedregal, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 696 meters, November 23, 

 1906; December 16 and 30, 1906. One male, two females. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. February 23, 

 1908; March 13 and 27, 1908; April 2-24, 1908; May 2-31, 1908; 

 June 5-12, 1907-1908; July 27, 1907; September 27, 1908; October 



26, 1908; November 12 and 29, 1907; December 2 and 10, 1907. 

 Nineteen males, nineteen females. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. January 

 7-22, 1907-1908; February 9-24, 1907; March 27, 1907; April 4-24, 

 1907, 1908 and 1909; May 25, 1907; November 2, 1906. Eight 

 males, nine females. 



Potrerillos, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,368 meters. December 



27, 1908. One female. 



Cordillera de Mendoza. March 20, 1908; November 21, 1906. 

 Three males, one female. 



This extensive series shows that the species varies tremendously 

 in size and color, in these respects being parallelled by similar variation 

 in the closely allied, if at all distinct, North American T. vinculata. 

 The same variations in general size, color tone, width, intensity, 

 solidarity, and curve of tegminal bands, intensity and width of wing 

 band, tone of wing disk and colors of ventral sulcus of caudal femora 

 are noted as in vinculata. 



The rugosity of the metazonal disk varies individually in both 

 sexes, while the caudal angle of the pronotum shows variants ranging 

 from slightly obtuse to slightly acute, the majority having it rect- 

 angulate. 



The species has a very considerable range, having been recorded 

 from north-central Mexico south to at least as far as the provinces 

 of Santa Fe, Cordoba, San Luis, and Mendoza, Argentina. 




^913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



Subfamily OMMEXECHIX.E. 



:Parossa''3 viridis (GigUo-Tos). 



1897. 0[ssa] viridis Giglio-Tos, Boll Mus. Z90I. ^nat Comp Torino 

 XII, No. 302, p. 27. [Caiza and San Francisco, Bolivian Chaco, San 

 Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina.] 

 Jujuy, Prov. of Jujuy. April, 1911. Four females. 

 San Juan, Prov. of San Juan. Elev. 673 meters. January 17-20, 

 1909. One male, two females. 



Alto Pencosa, Prov. of San Luis. Elev. 660 meters. December 

 21, 1908. One female. 



La Paz, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 504 meters. December 19, 

 1908. One male, one female. 



Pedregal, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 696 meters. January 3-5, 



1907. Two males, two females. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. January 2-16, 

 1908; February 12, 1908; April 3, 1908; May 24, 1908; June 5, 



1908. Four males, five females. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. January 

 19-29, 1907; February 2-13, 1908; March 27, 1907; April 5-11, 

 1907. Fifteen males, five females, one immature female. 



Blanco Encalada, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,068 meters. Feb- 

 ■ ruary 12, 1908. One male, one female. 



Punta del Agua, Prov. of Mendoza. February 27, 1907. Two 



- "f pTy\Q iPS 



San Ignacio, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,235 meters. March 

 15-22, 1908; April 5, 1908. Three males, three females. 



Pot'rerillos, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,368 meters. January 

 20, 1908. Two males, four females. 



This very interesting series throws some light on the color phases 

 of the species. It is apparent that three are present: first, a green 

 phase, which was that originally described by Giglio-Tos; second, 

 a brownish or dull wine-colored phase, and, third, a speckled phase. 

 The green phase shows Uttle variation in itself aside from that in the 

 yellowish tone of the green base color and the more or less pronounced 

 character of a yellowish wash on the dorsal section of the tegminal 



33 After examining the literatm-e involved, we can substantiate what Bruner 

 fAnn Carneg Mus., VIII, p. 38, footnote) has said regarding the proper status 

 of Blanchard's genus Paulinia. It is clearly the same as Ccelopterna bt&l, which 

 name it should replace, and in no way related to Ossa Gigho-Tos, which 

 through an unfortunate preoccupation must fall, and in place ot which Bruner 

 has erected Parossa. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



bases.^^ The brownish phase varies in tone from pale dull wine color 

 (vinaceous) and clay color to burnt umber, the caudal femora in the 

 extreme condition with more or less apparent transverse dark bars 

 on the dorsal face, and in the same pronounced type the caudal 

 tibise are of the general tone. The brownish phase and the normal 

 greenish phase are apparently connected by intermediate types, 

 some individuals being of the green phase with the dorsum of the 

 pronotum and the tegmina weakly vinaceous, while other specimens, 

 which otherwise would be referred to the brownish phase, have 

 yellowish the underlying color, the femora unhanded and the tibise 

 of the glaucous of the green phase. The speckled phase also shades 

 into both of the other forms and is characterized by a mottling of 

 bistre, olive-green, or bay over the underlying bright gamboge to 

 lemon-yellow of the pronotum and head of those specimens approach- 

 ing the green phase and over burnt umber in the single (Jujuy) 

 specimen approaching (or rather in) the brownish phase. These 

 fine mottlings are either general on the dorsum or grouped in 

 two irregular longitudinal bars, which are postocular in their po- 

 sition, the interocular portion of the head also being much suffused. 

 In the extreme condition of this phase the femora are moderately 

 banded dorsad, the tibise being of the color which the general tone of 

 the individual more nearly approaches. These phases are not 

 geographic, as the Mendoza series has all three, but apparently a 

 certain type is more numerous in one locality than in others. All of 

 the Potrerillos material is either in or very closely approaching the 

 speckled phase, while, aside from several brownish individuals, all 

 of the Chacras de Coria representatives are in or very near the green 

 phase. 



There is considerable size variation, but this appears to be indi- 

 vidual and not geographic. 



The range of the present species is known to extend from the 

 Bolivian Chaco (Caiza and San Francisco, cotypic individuals being 

 before us) and Jujuy, south to the Provinces of Santa Fe (Carcarana), 

 Cordoba, San Luis (Alto Pencosa), and Mendoza {vide supra). 



PACHYOSSA n. gen. 



Intermediate in position between Parossa Bruner (Ossa Giglio-Tos) 

 and Ommexecha Serville, sharing certain characters of each, but far 



^* Superficially, this might suggest to some an approach to P. bimaculata, which 

 is in part characterized by having large yellowish maculations in the same regions, 

 but in the present form the yellow is never as decided or as sharply outlined,, 

 while excellent structural characters readily differentiate the two species. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



closer to the former. With Parossa it agrees in the general form of 

 the occiput and interocular region, the reduction of spines on the 

 pronotum and tubercles on the limbs, the non-spiniform ventro- 

 caudal angles of the lateral lobes and the rounded internal angle of 

 the mesosternal lobes ; while from Parossa it differs in the subrostrate 

 interantennal portion of the frontal costa, the tuberculate caudal 

 margin of the pronotal disk, the scabrous dorsum of the same, the 

 peculiar coriaceous texture and subnodulose surface of the tegmina, 

 in this respect resembling Ommexecha and Spathalium, and in the 

 abbreviate, robust form. 



Form robust, abbreviate; surface of head, pronotum, and femora 

 multituberculate; head, pronotum, venter, and limbs, but particu- 

 larly the latter two, strongly villose. Occiput buUate; interocular 

 region very broad, greatly exceeding the width of the eye, greatly 

 declivent, non-impressed; frontal costa subrostrate between the 

 antennse, evanescent ventrad, sulcate dorsad; eyes subglobose. 

 Pronotum robust, greatest dorsal width subequal to its length; 

 prozona hardly elevated, metazona depressed cephalad, transversely 

 elevated caudad; cephalic margin slightly emarginate mesad, caudal 

 margin very broadly obtuse-angulate with three pairs of marginal 

 nodes; lateral lobes with the ventro-caudal angle very broadly 

 rounded, non-spiniform. Tegmina broad, sublanceolate, apex 

 moderately rounded; texture coriaceous; surface without decided 

 nodes, but with certain of the transverse veins of the discoidal and 

 anal fields slightly elevated. Wings perfectly developed. Interspace 

 between the mesosternal lobes very decidedly transverse, the margins 

 of the lobes rounded; metasternal interspace more transverse than 

 the mesosternal one. 



Type. — P. signata n. sp. 



Pachyossa signata n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Misiones, Argentina. January 12, 1910. (P. Jor- 

 gensen; No. 22.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,218.] 



Size medium; form fusiform, subdepressed ; surface of the head 

 with the tubercles fewer and lower on the occiput than elsewhere, 

 pronotum ruguloso-tuberculate, hairs on the head, pronotum, and 

 pleura few and scattered, around the insertion of the limbs and on 

 the same very much more numerous. Head with the greatest width 

 contained less than one and one-half times in the depth of the same; 

 interocular space one and two-thirds times the length of the eye, 

 greatly declivent to the subvertical fastigium, which is delimited 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



caudad by an obtuse-angulate series of tubercles, passing cephalad 

 into the frontal costa without interruption; frontal costa when seen 

 from the side arcuate subrostrate between the antennae, obsolete 

 ventrad, dorsad with a V-sectioned sulcation; eyes subglobose, their 

 length contained about one and one-third times in the length of the 

 infra-ocular gense; antennae incomplete, Pronotum with the median 

 carina indicated only on the prozona and there by a tuberculate 

 ridge, slightly arcuate in profile; lateral angles indicated on the 

 metazona and there only by bluntly rounded, low-tuberculate shoul- 



Fig. 12. — Pachyossa signata n. gen. and sp. Lateral view of type. (X 3.) 



ders, on the prozona no trace of the angles exists; transyerse sulci 

 weak, indications of four present, only the caudal at all distinctly 

 marked; lateral lobes with the greatest depth contained about one 

 and one-third times in the greatest length of the same, caudal margin 

 oblique subtruncate, the ventro-caudal angle yery broadly rounded 

 and extending considerably yentrad of the yentro-cephalic angle, 

 which is obtuse. Tegmina nearly two and one-half times as long as 

 the pronotum, the greatest width at the proximal fourth and con- 

 tained oyer three times in the length, thence rather eyenly tapering 

 to the rather narrowly rounded apex; marginal field broad at the 

 proximal fourth, there slightly more than a third the total width of 

 the tegmen; sutural margin yery slightly but regularly arcuate; the 

 transyerse yein-groups which form subnodose eleyations are formed 

 by a number of yery short transyerse yeinlets coalescing and filling 

 up the intervening cells, the contrast between these groups and the 

 distinctly outlined cells between the elevations bringing them into 

 greater prominence. AVings with their length subequal to that of 

 the tegmina when both are in repose, the greatest width contained 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



327 



Fig. 13. — Pachyossa 

 'signata n. gen. and 

 sp. Dorsal out- 

 line of head and 

 pronotum. (X 3.) 



nearly twice in the length of the same; apex well rounded. Pro- 

 sternum transversely carinate with a compressed 

 trigonal projection mesad; interspace between 

 the mesosternal lobes four times as broad caudad 

 as deep, the lateral margins diverging, obliquely 

 rounded; interspace between the metasternal 

 lobes even more decidedly transverse than that 

 l)etween the mesosternal lobes. Cephalic and 

 median limbs strongly villose. Caudal femora 

 one and two-thirds times the length of the 

 pronotum, pattern of the pagina moderately 

 regular; caudal tibiae subequal to the femora in 

 length, armed on the external margin with six 

 spines; caudal metatarsus subequal to the 

 remainder of the tarsus in length; all of the 

 caudal limb strongly and thickty villose. 



General color clove brown, passing into Vandyke 

 brown mottled with wood brown on the limbs; 

 ventral surface mummy brown, becoming wood 

 l:)rown on that aspect of the limbs. Head, 

 pronotum, and pleura with the tubercles varied with pale brown and 

 blackish, so that the general color is modified in a "pepper-and-salt" 

 fashion; lower part of the face with much wood bro^\Ti; eyes raw 

 sienna; antennae with the joints blackish, each joint margined distad 

 with ochraceous. Tegmina with the base color seal bro^vTi, with a 

 reticulate pattern of wood brown and ecru drab formed by the 

 coloring of groups of veins, both longitudinal and transverse, the ecru 

 drab predominating toward the apex and the costal margin; anal 

 field with a proximal ovate spot of clear orpiment orange, which is 

 completely hidden when the tegmina are in repose. Wings strongly 

 infu.'Scate with clove brown proximad, this passing gradually into the 

 pale creamy -white of the apex, where the veins alone retain the color 

 of the proximal portion. Limbs mottled and blotched with the 

 general colors, the caudal femora with two irregular pale transverse 

 bars, which are V-shaped on the external face. Hairs of the entire 

 body straw yellow. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 28 . mm. 



Length of pronotum 8 . " 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum 7. " 



Length of tegmen 21 . " 



Greatest width of tegmen 6. " 



Length of caudal femur 13.2 '* 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Information with the unique type is to the effect that it was taken 

 from stones of a very similar coloration. 

 * Ommexeclia giglio-tosi Bolivar. 



1899. 0[mmexecha] Giglio-Tosi Bolivar, Revista Chilena Hist. Nat., Ill, 

 pp. 54, 55. [Caiza, Aguairenda, and San Francisco, Bolivian Chaco.] 



Jujuy, Prov. of Jujuy. April, 1911. Five males, three females. 



Embarcacion, Prov. of Salta. April, 1911. Three females. 



This series of specimens show two types of structure, one with the 

 pronotum more sellate than the other, but we do not feel warranted 

 in separating them specifically. Both forms are in the Jujuy series, 

 but only that with the more sellate pronotum in the Embarcacion lot. 



The wings are pale azure on the disk, the apex very lightly infumate, 

 with the transverse veins of the discoidal and adjacent portion of the 

 axillary fields seal brown. 



The above localities are all from which the species is known. 

 *Ommexecha germari Burmeister. 



1838. 0[mmexecha] Germari Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, abth. II, 

 pt. 1, p. 655. [Brazil.] 



Misiones. August 4, 1909. One female. 



This individual is inseparable from representatives from Sapucay, 

 Paraguay. 



The present species has been recorded from Brazil (specifically 

 Sao Leopoldo [Bolivar], Porto Allegre [Karsch], and Corumba 

 [Bruner] ), Paraguay (specifically Villa Rica [Giglio-Tos] and Sapucay 

 [Rehn] ) and the Misiones. This is the first record of the species 

 from Argentina. 

 Ommexeclia servillei Blanchard. 



1837. Ommexecha Servillei Blanchard, Ann. See. Entom. PVance, V, p. 613, 

 pi. XXII, figs. 2, 3. [Province of Corrientes, Argentina.] 



Misiones. May 12, 1910; November 9, 1910; December 12 and 

 17, 1910. (No. 20.) Four males, two females. 



All of these specimens are brownish in coloration and we have 

 provisionally retained the name servillei for them, although we have 

 little doubt that topotypes of Serville's virens, from Buenos Aires, 

 will show that name to have been based on a green color phase of 

 the present insect. 



Previous records of servillei are from Porto Allegre, Rio Grande do 

 Sul (Karsch), Sierra Geral, Santa Catharina (Karsch), Sao Paulo 

 (Bruner), Reboucas (Rehn), Corumba, Matto Grosso (Bruner), 

 Matto Grosso (Karsch), Brazil; Asuncion and San Bernardino, 

 Paraguay (Bruner), Sapucay, Paraguay (Rehn, as virens), and 

 Misiones and Corrientes, Argentina. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



* Spathalium 35 stall Bolivar. 



1884. Sp^thalium Slali Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Espafi. Hist. Xat., XIII, p. 32. 

 [Sao ("San") Leopoldo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.] 



Misiones. January 12, 1911; October 31, 1910; November, 1910. 

 (No. 30 and 37.) One male, two females. 



The present specimens are clearly referable to this species, which 

 was previously known only from the original description. Two facts 

 are evident from the material before us, these being that the species 

 is dichromatic and that the length of the tegmina and wings varies 

 greatly in the same. 



The type was of a greenish color phase, which is almost matched 

 by one of the females in hand, the green of the tegmina apparently 

 being more extensive than in the type, as it colors the adjacent 

 portions of the marginal and anal fields of the tegmina as well as the 

 discoidal as described. The other individuals are of a similar pat- 

 tern, but in several tones of brown with no evidence of green. 



The tegmina show considerable length variation as well as some in 

 the form of the apex of the same. The latter may be acute-angulate 

 without any trace of bluntness or of similar general outline, with the 

 immediate apex narrowly rounded. The wings are described as 

 "dimidise elytrorum longitudinis, " while in one of the present females 

 the wings are about two-thirds of the tegminal length, and in the 

 other they fall but little short of the tegminal apices when in repose. 

 In the male the wings are subequal to the tegmina when closed. 



The measurements of the present material and of the type are as 

 follows : 



Male. Female. Female. Female (type). 



mm. mm. mm. mm. 



Length of body 22. 34.5 33. 32. 



Length of pronotum 7.5 10. 10. 9.5 



Greatest dorsal width of 



pronotum 6.2 9.2 9.6 



Length of tegmen 23. 27.2 33.5 23. 



Length of caudal femur .. 13.2 16.8 20. 16. 



'5 The specimens from Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil, recorded by us as 

 Spathalium cyanopterum (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXXVI, p. 110), we find on 

 re-examination to be S. klugii (Bm-meister), which Bolivar synonymized under 

 S. serrulatum Thunberg, the type of Burmeister's species having been examined 

 by him. There seems no doubt but that his description of "serrulatum" was in 

 part drawn from this specimen. On examination of the original description of 

 serrulatum we have been unable to positively place the species, but it does not 

 seem to be the same as klugii. Kirby {Syn. Catal. Orth., Ill, p. 298) has given 

 the synonymy correctly and permitted both names to stand. Bruner, unfortu- 

 nately, has redescribed klugii as S. bolivari (Ann. Carneg. Mus., VIII, p. 39). 

 Our material fuUy agrees with his description and that of Burmeister and of 

 Bohvar. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [May, 



Subfamily LOCUSTIN^. 

 Coryacris angustipennis (Bmner). 



1900. Elceochlora angustipennis Bruner, Sec. Rep. Merch. Locust Invest. 



Comm. Buenos Aires, p. 58. [Rosario, Prov. of Santa Fe, Argentina.] 

 1909. Coryacris diversipes Rehn, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXXV, p. Ill, 

 figs. 1 and 2. [Corumbd, Matto Grosso, Brazil] 



Posadas, Misiones. March 6 and 7, 1909; April 8, 1910. Two 

 males, one female. 



These specunens have been compared with a paratypic female 

 of diversipes from Cuyaba, IMatto Grosso, and found to be inseparable. 

 Bruner has recently established the above synonymy,^^ which 

 appears to be correct. 



The localities given above are all that are known for the species. 

 Prionolopha serrata (Linnseus). 



1758. [Gryllus (Bulla)] serratus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., X ed., p. 427. 

 ["Indiis."] 



Embarcacion, Prov. of Salta. April, 1911. One female. 



This striking species, which ranges northward to northern South 



America, has been recorded from as far south as Tucuman and 



Resistencia nel Chaco, Argentina. 



Diedronot'us laevipes (Stai). 



1878. T[rapidonotus] Icevipes St&l, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handl., 

 V, No. 9, p. 20. [Sao Leopoldo, Brazil; Argentine Republic] 



IViisiones. January 10, 1911; January 12 and 26, 1910; November 

 26, 1909. (Nos. 21 and 34.) Three males, one female. 



This interesting form has been recorded from a number of localities 



extending from southern Brazil and Paraguay south as far as 



Buenos Aires. According to Bruner, it inhabits the open "camp." 



Diedronotus angulatus (S&tl). 



1873. T[ropinotus] angulatus Stai, Ofv. Kong. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 1873, 

 No. 4, p. 52. [Bahia, Brazil.] 



Jujuy, Prov. of Jujuy. April, 1911. Two males. 



Embarcacion; Prov. of Salta. April, 1911. One female. 



This species has been recorded from several Brazilian localities 

 south to as far as Asuncion, Villa Rica, and Sapucay, Paraguay, and 

 Tucuman, Argentina (Giglio-Tos) , the latter being the only previous 

 Argentine record. 



Diedronotus discoideus (Serville). 



1831. Tropinotus discoideus Serville, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 273. [Brazil.] 



Misiones. March 26 and 30, 1909; April 12 and 20, 1910; Sep- 

 tember 16, 1910. Two males, four females. 



^ Ann. Carneg. Mm., VIII, p. 53. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



All of these specimens, except the March 30 female, have the 

 tegmina distinctly maculate, the exception having the discoidal field 

 with the faintest possible indication of the usual blotching. The 

 male and female taken March 30 were in coitu, and the two represent 

 the extremes in maculation of the discoidal field of the tegmina. 

 The anal field of the tegmina is unicolorous in all of the specimens. 



Information with one specimen is to the effect that the species is 

 "common." 



Northward this form has an extensive range, while the southern 

 border of its distribution extends from Jujuy (Giglio-Tos) eastward 

 to Buenos Aires (Giglio-Tos) and Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil (Rehn). 



Elaeochlora viridicata (Serville). 



1839. Xiphicera viridicata Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins. Orthopt., p. 614. 

 [Buenos Aires.] 



Buenos Aires. February 14 and 20, 1909. Three males. 



Misiones. January 3 and 5, 1910; February 1, 1910; March 

 20-26, 1910; December 3, 1909; December 12 and 24, 1910. (No. 

 2.) Six males, eight females. 



The Buenos Aires specimens are typical of the species, while the 

 Misiones series is referred here with some doubt, differing much 

 as does the Sapucay, Paraguay representation previously examined 

 by us." The pronotum is, in the Misiones specimens, more compressed 

 than in Buenos Aires individuals, the fastigium shorter and broader 

 in the male, being more of an equilateral triangle, and the coloration 

 different, the median line of the pronotum being much narrower, 

 while the humeral regions of the pronotum of the male are washed 

 with dull purplish and the caudal tibiae of the same sex are wax yellow 

 to pale orange, without reddish as in typical viridicata. The females 

 have the tibiae green as in Buenos Aires specunens, the spines and 

 tarsi usually without sanguineous, although this is indicated in 

 two Misiones individuals. It is probable that the Sapucay and 

 Misiones series are specifically or subspecifically distinct from 

 viridicata, but we have refrained from recognizing their differences 

 with a name. It seems more desirable at present to get a better 

 conception of the real value of these differences, which can only be 

 done by the acquisition of more material from a number of localities. 



This species has been recorded from points extending from the tj^pe 

 locality north to Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil. 



3' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 174. 




332 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF i^^^Y) 



Chromacris miles (Drury).38 



1773. Gryll[us] Loc[usta] miles Drury, Illust. Nat. Hist. Exot. Ins., II, 

 pp. 79 and Index, pi. XLII, fig. 2. [Bay of Honduras.] 



Misiones. February 20, 1909; December 1-14, 1909-1910. 

 (No. 14.) Two males, five females, three nymphs. 



Buenos Aires, February 14 and 20, 1909. Two males, three 

 females. 



Jujuy, Prov. of Jujuy. April, 1911. One male, 



Alto Pencosa, Prov. of San Luis. Elev. 660 meters. January 

 30, 1908; February 2, 1908. Three males, five females. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. February 29, 

 1908. One male. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. February 

 6-16, 1907-1908; April 11, 1907. Three males, seven females. 



We have before us specimens from Merida, Yucatan, contained 

 in the Hebard Collection, which agree absolutely with the original 

 description of miles. The material from Argentina and Paraguay 

 shows certain constant differences which have already been empha- 

 sized by Pictet and Saussure.^^ Any expression of the exact rela- 

 tionship of the material from the two regions seems best withheld, 

 until at least sufficient series from other localities can be examined, 

 thus enabling us to judge more clearly how constant over definite 

 regions apparent differences are. The Merida individuals, seven in 

 number, are constant and typical. All of the Argentine and Para- 

 guayan specimens seen are duller with the pale maculations more 

 orange-rufous than yellow, the wings with the pale areas brick red 

 or orange, the pale occipital bars narrower and the pale areas of the 

 caudal margin of the pronotum usually not continuous, but broken 



28 In studying the present series of this species we have made a rather extensive 

 re-examination of our material of this and allied forms, as well as the literature 

 bearing on the subject. It is in consequence necessary to correct certain previous 

 references which are erroneous on account of a confusion of 7niles and stolli. 

 Bruner's first reference of stolli (Sec. Rep. Merch. Locust Invest. Coram. Buenos 

 Aires, p. 60) should be credited to tniles, as material before us studied and deter- 

 mined by him at that time shows. Specimens of stolli from British Guiana, also 

 from him, we find labelled 7niles in his handwriting. The present author, partly 

 by following these determinations, is responsible for the following misidentifica- 

 tions, which should refer to C. miles. 



Chromacris stolli Rehn {nee Pictet and Saussure), Entom. News, XVI, p. 38. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Chromacris stolli Rehn {nee Pictet and Saussure), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1907, p. 174. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Chromacris stolli Rehn {nee Pictet and Saussure), Entom. News, XXII, p. 251. 

 [Puerto Bertoni, Paraguay.] 



39 Mitt. Schweiz. Entom. Gesell., VII, p. 350, as variety A. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



into spots or areas somewhat as in stolli, but less decided than in that 

 form. 



The Misiones series has the wings more reddish than the other lots, 

 while the Chacras de Coria individuals have these more orange. 



The provinces of Buenos Aires, Cordoba, and Mendoza seem to be 

 the southern limit of the species. 



*Zoniopoda iheringi Pictet and Saussure. 



1887. Zoniopoda Iheringi Pictet and Saussure, Mitth. Schw. Entom. 

 Gesell., VII, p. 357. [Southern Brazil.] 



Misiones. February 8 and 14, 1910; 15 and 21, 1909 and 1910; 

 December 8 and 23, 1910. (No. 18.) Four males, three females. 



These specimens have been compared with individuals from 

 Sapucay, Paraguay, and a female from Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, 

 received from and determined by Saussure. It is evident that 

 considerable size variation is found in the species, as we have differ- 

 ences in the extremes of the two sexes from Misiones as follows : 



Male. Female, 



mm. mm. mm. mm. 



Length pf body 27. 32.5 35. 49.5 



Length of pronotum 6.2 7.5 8.9 12.2 



Length of tegmen 24.5 26. 32.5 37. 



Length of caudal femur 14.7 17. 19. 25.5 



There is also an appreciable amount of variation in the general 

 form, some specimens, irrespective of sex, being more compressed 

 than others, more noticeably so in the male than in the female, and 

 quite irrespective of locality. A casual examination would lead 

 one to suppose that two species were present, but careful study shows 

 that the extremes cannot be separated on account of the intermediate 

 individuals. The median carina of the pronotum shows some varia- 

 tion in prominence in both sexes. 



In color there is marked variation in the shade of blue on the disk 

 of the wing, in some individuals this being nile blue, flax flower blue 

 (Ridgway) in others, running through heliotrope purple to phlox 

 purple. This variation does not appear to be correlated with sex, 

 locality, size, or degree of compression. The caudal tibiae also vary 

 in general color from cream to scarlet vermilion dorsad, with the 

 ventral surface very pale apple green. 



Information with one specimen is to the effect that the species is 

 gregarious. Its range is known to extend from Chapada, Matto 

 Grosso (Bruner), and Rio Grande do Sul (Rehn), Brazil, to the 

 Misiones. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Zoniopoda cruentata (Blanchard). 



1846. Acridium cruentatum Blanchard, in D'Orbigny, Voy. dans I'Amer. 

 Merid., VI, pt. II, p. 216, pi. XXVII, fig. 5. [No locality.] 



Jujuy, Prov. of Jujuy. April, 1911. One male. 



La Carlota, Prov. of. Cordoba. Elev. 142 meters. May 8, 1909. 

 One female. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. April 9, 1908. 

 One female. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. January 

 15-30, 1907-1908; February 7-15, 1907-1908; March 23-25, 1907; 

 April 4-18, 1907 and 1909; May 22-23, 1907. Five males, twelve 

 females. 



Pedregal, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 696 meters. January 14, 

 1907; December 13, 1906. Two males. 



Misiones. November 12, 1909; December 10-12, 1909. Five 

 males. 



This series is very constant in coloration aside from a slight 

 variation in the depth of the ground color of the head. The Jujuy 

 individual, alone of the series, has the proximal portion of the external 

 face of the caudal femora more olive green than in the other specimens 

 and blending into the blackish disto-median band. There is no 

 tendency in the series to approach the Brazilian Z. tarsata (Serville) . 



The northern limit of the range of the present species is not defi- 

 nitely known, as most of the records are confused with tarsata, but to 

 the southward, where cruentata alone is found, its range is given by 

 Bruner as "central and northern Argentina." The above records 

 and that from Buenos Aires (Giglio-Tos) are the most southern 

 definitely known ones. 



Zoniopoda omnicolor (Blanchard). 



1846. Acridium omnicolor Blanchard, ibid., p. 216, pi. XXVII, fig. 3. [No 

 locality.] 



Jujuy, Prov. of Jujuy. April, 1911. One female. 



This species has been recorded from as far north as Caiza, Bolivian 

 Chaco (Giglio-Tos), and Sapucay, Paraguay (Rehn; Bruner), south 

 to Santiago del Estero (Stal) and Cordoba, Argentina (Bruner). 



Diponthus electus (Serville). 



1839. Acridium electum Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins. Orthopt., p. 67. [IMonte- 

 video.] 



Misiones. November, 1910; December 17 and 22, 1910. (No. 

 32.) Two males, one female. 



This beautiful species is easily recognized by its nearly uniform 

 colored tegmina and longitudinally barred pronotum. The present 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



individuals all have the caudal tibiae more or less extensivelj^ pinkish 

 purple distad, in the female this color covering almost the whole of 

 the tibiae, while the dorsum of the tarsi are suffused with the same 

 color in all. The pale head and pronotal lines vary from dull straw 

 yellow to clay color, the pale areas of the caudal femora closely 

 agreeing with this color, while the darker pronotal bars vary from 

 dark oil green to purplish brown; the dark areas of the pleura and 

 caudal femora agree in color with the dark pronotal bars. 



The previous records of this species are from Montevideo (Ser- 

 ville) and Patagonia (Pictet and Saussure). 



*Diponthus festivus Gerstaecker. 



1873. Diponthus festivus Gerstaecker, Entom. Zeit., Stettin, XXXIV, p. 

 193. [Porto Allegre, Rio Grande do Sul, BrazU.] 



Misiones. November 26, 1909; December 1 and 18, 1909-1910. 

 Three females. 



This striking species has only been recorded from the type locality 

 and by Pictet and Saussure without exact locality from the same 

 state (Rio Grande do Sul). 



* Diponthus crassus Bruner. 



1910. Diponthus crassus Bruner, Entom. News, XXI, p. 303. [Puerta 

 Bertoni, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. October 27, 1909; November 9 and 12, 1907 and 1909; 

 December 12, 1909. Four males, five females. 



These specimens are perfectly typical of this very distinct recently 

 described species. As the male was previously unknown, the 

 measurements of an average individual of that sex may be of interest r 

 length of body, 24 mm.; length of pronotum, 5.2; length of tegmen,. 

 16.3; length of caudal femur, 14. Of the above series three pairs, 

 taken in November and December, were captured in coitu. 



The type locality and the Misiones are the only localities from which 

 the species is known. 



♦Diponthus paraguayensis Bruner. 



1906. Diponthus paraguayensis Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX,. 

 p. 657. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. May 5, 1910; November 12, 1909; December 12, 1910. 

 (Nos. 3 and 6.) Three males, six females. 



The variation in color tone previously noted by us in this species^^ 

 is evident in the present series. Information with the species is to 

 the effect that it is very common. 



« Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 179. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



The only localities known for this form are that of the type and the 

 Misiones. 



Diponthus argentinus Pictet and Saussure. 



1887. D[iponthus] argentinus Pictet and Saussure, Mitt. Schweiz. Entom. 

 Gesell., VII, p. 372. [Buenos Aires.] 



Mendoza, Prov, of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. April 9, 1908. 

 One female. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. Janu- 

 ary 31, 1907; April 3, 1907; December 3, 1903. Two adult and 

 one immature female. 



Cordillera de Mendoza. April 3, 1908. One female. 



Potrerillos, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,368 meters. December 

 27, 1907. One male, one female. 



These specimens vary considerably in the tone of both the dark 

 and light base colors, the former being olive green in some, blackish 

 in others, while the pale shade varies from nearly clear yellow or 

 creamy yellow to decided dull orange. 



The single immature individual was taken April 3, 1907. 



This species ranges from Buenos Aires west to the Cordillera de 

 Mendoza, while to the north or south we know nothing of the limits 

 of its distribution. 



Leptysma filiformis (Serville). 



1839. Opsomala filiformis Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins. Orthopt., p. 593. [The 

 north of the State of Sao Paulo, BrazU.] 



Misiones. March 18, 1909; December 12, 1909. (No. 12.) 

 Two males. 



These specimens fully agree with Sao Paulo females now before us. 



The species has been recorded from as far north and east as Rio de 

 Janeiro, Brazil (Bolivar), south to the Rio Colorado, Buenos Aires 

 (Berg), west to San Lorenzo, Jujuy (Giglio-Tos), and Chapada, 

 Matto Grosso, Brazil (Bruner). 



* Leptysma obscura ^Thunberg). 



1827. Truxalis obscura Thunberg, Nova Acta Reg. Soc. Scient. Upsal., 

 IX, p. 79. [Brazil.] 



Misiones. December 2 and 12, 1909. (No. 12.) Two males. 



These individuals fully agree with males from Sapucay and San 

 Bernardino, Paraguay. 



The range of this species extends- from Bonito, Pernambuco, 

 Brazil (Rehn), south to the Misiones, west to Chapada, Matto 

 Grosso, Brazil (Bruner; Rehn). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



Leptysmina pallida Giglio-Tos. 



1894. L[eptysmina] pallida Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. 

 Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 35. [Resistencia nel Chaco, Argentina.] 



Buenos Aires. February 20 and 26, 1909. Two males, one 

 female. 



The present individuals have been compared with Carcarana, 

 Argentina specimens. The localities from which this species has 

 been recorded, in addition to those given above, are Carcarana and 

 Rosario, Argentina, and with a query from Victoria, Brazil (all by 

 Bruner in error for L. rosea). 



*Oxybleptella sagitta Giglio-Tos. 



1894. Oxyhleptella sagitta Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, 

 IX, No. 184, p. 33. [ViUa Rica, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. August 2, 1910. One male. 



This specimen is inseparable from Sapucay, Paraguay, individuals. 



The records of this .species are from Villa Rica, Paraguay (type), 

 Paraguay (Gigho-Tos), Sapucay, Paraguay (Rehn), Sao Paulo, 

 Brazil (Bruner), and Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil (Bruner). The 

 latter record, we believe, probably relates to the closely allied 0. 

 pulcheUa. 



*Inusia pallida Bruner. 



1906. Inusia pallida Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 660. 



[Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. April 19, 1909. One male. 



This species was previously known only from the unique female 

 type. The present individual agrees satisfactorily with the original 

 •description except that the green color of the type is replaced 

 in the present specimen by dull ochraceous, the dark lateral line is 

 «ven more decided than in the type and the proportions are, as usual 

 in opposite sexes, somewhat different. The measurements of the 

 present specimen are: length of body, 20.8 mm. ; length of pronotum, 

 4.3; length of tegmen, 22; length of caudal femur, 11.5. 

 Oxyblepta puncticeps (Stil). 



1860. Opsomala puncticeps St§,l, Kong. Svenska Fregat. Eugenies Resa, 

 Zool., Ins. I, p. 325. [Rio Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Misiones. April 26, 1909. One male, one female. 



This species has also been recorded from Rio Janeiro (Stal) and 

 Corumba (Rehn; Bruner), Brazil; Paraguay (Giglio-Tos), Sapucay, 

 Paraguay (Bruner); Caiza and San Francisco, Bolivian Chaco 

 (Giglio-Tos); San Lorenzo, Jujuy (Giglio-Tos), and Resistencia nel 

 Chaco (Bruner), Argentina. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF L^ay,. 



Oxyblepta boMsii (GigUo-Tos). 



1895. S[tenopola] bohlsii Giglio-Tos, Zoolog. Jahrbiicher, Abth. Syst., 

 VIII, p. 813. [Paraguay.] 



Misiones. May 20, 1910. One female. 



The previous records of this species were from Chapada (Bruner) 

 and Corumba (Rehn; Bruner), Brazil; Paraguay (Giglio-Tos), 

 Sapucay, Paraguay (Bruner; Rehn), and Resistencia nel Chaco, 

 Argentina (Giglio-Tos) . 



*Aleuas vitticollis St&l. 



1878. A[leuas] vitticollis Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handl., 

 V, No. 4, p. 69. [Sao ("San") Leopoldo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil; Mon- 

 tevideo, Uruguay.] 



Misiones. February 24, 1910. One male. 



This species has also been recorded from Sapucay, Paraguay 



(Rehn; Bruner), and Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil (Rehn; Bruner). 



♦Aleuas brachypterus Bmner. 



1906. Aleuas brachypterus Bruner, Proc. IJ. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 667. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. February 2, 1911. (No. 39.) "On water plant." 

 One female. 



The only previously known locality for the species was that of the 

 type. It seems very probable to us that this is the female sex of 

 vitticollis, the material before us, consisting of four females, differing 

 from vitticollis males only in such characters as are sexual, using the 

 term in the sense of known sexual differences in the closely allied 

 A. gracilis. 



Aleuas lineatus StS.1. 



1878. A[leuas] lineatus StM, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handl., 

 V, No. 4, p. 70. [Buenos Aires; Uruguay.] 



Caucete, Prov. of San Juan. Elev. 567 meters. January 13, 1909. 

 One male, one female. 



San Ignacio, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,235 meters. April 4, 

 1908. One male, one female. 



These specimens are seen to have longer tegmina and wings than 

 two pairs from Carcarana, when compared with the same. In the 

 males from Caucete and San Ignacio the tegmina surpass the tips of 

 the caudal femora by very nearty or quite the pronotal length, while 

 in the Carcarana males the difference is hardly ijiore than half of the 

 same. In the females the discrepancy is less decided, but still quite 

 apparent. 



This species is known to range from Sapucay, Paraguay (Bruner),. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 339 



south to Buenos Aires and Uruguay (Stal), west to San Ignacio, 

 Mendoza and Caucete, San Juan, Argentina. 



Abracris^i nebulosa (Bruner). 



1900. Jodacris (?) nebulosa Brunei-, Sec. Rep. Merch. Locust Invest. Comm. 

 Buenos Aires, p. 67. [Asuncion, Paraguay; Prov. of Tucuman, 

 Argentina.] 



Misiones. May 6, 1910. One female. 



This species has also been recorded from Corumba (Bruner), 

 Chapada (Rehn), and Victoria (Bruner), Brazil, Paraguay (Giglio- 

 Tos), and Sapucay, Paraguay (Bruner; Rehn). 



*Abracris signatipes (Bruner). 



1906. Omalotettix signatipes Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 673. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. November 9, 1909. One male, four females. 

 This species has an extensive range to the northward, the present 

 locality constituting its most southerly known limit of distribution. 



Osmiliola aurita Giglio-Tos. 



1897. 0[smiUola] aurita Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, 

 XII, No. 302, p. 33. [San Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina; Caiza, BoUvian 

 Chaco.] 



Misiones. September 5, 1909; October, 1910. Two males, one 

 female. 



The pair of this species taken October, 1910, were in coitu. 



This very interesting species, in addition to the localities given 

 above, has been recorded from Pernambuco, Brazil, and Chapada, 

 Matto Grosso, Brazil, both by Bruner. 



Schistocerca infumata Scudder. 



1899. Schistocerca infumata Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., 

 XXXIV, p. 457. [Montevideo, Uruguay; Brazil.] 



Misiones. May 7 and 23, 1910. (No. 15.) Two females. 



Posadas, Misiones. Elev. 80 meters. March 3, 1909. Two 

 males. 



One of the female individuals is labelled ''Common. " Bruner says 

 this form, "is quite generally distributed over Argentina and 

 Uruguay along the La Plata River and northward into Brazil." 

 The only definite records aside from those above mentioned are from 

 Sapucay, Paraguay (Rehn; Bruner). 



*i Bruner's genus Omalotettix equals this Walkerian genus, according to Kirby, 

 Synon. Catal. Orth., Ill, p. 428. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May,. 



Sohistocerca paranensis (Burmeister). 



1861. Acridium. paranense Burmeister, Reise durch La Plata Staat., I,, 

 p. 491. [La Plata Region.] 



Misiones. December 1, 1910. (No. 1.) ''Very common." One 

 male. 



Buenos Aires. May 6, 1907. One male, one female. 



La Carlota, Prov. of Cordoba. Elev. 142 meters. May 7, 1907. 

 One male. 



Alto Pencosa, Prov. of San Luis. Elev. 660 meters. February 

 2, 1908. One adult female, one immature male, one immature 

 female. 



Pedregal, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 696 meters. January 3, 1907. 

 One female. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. December 

 12-13, 1907 and 1908. Three males, one female. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters, 

 November 28, 1907; December 7-16, 1907. Three males, three 

 females. 



The La Carlota individual belongs to the peculiar dwarfed form of 

 the species. The Mendoza and Chacras de Coria series are very pale, 

 similar to spring specimens from Carcarana received from Bruner. 



*Atraclielacris olivaceus (Bruner). 



1911. Dichroplus olivaceus Bruner, Ann. Carneg. Mus., VIII, p. 133. 

 [Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil.] 



Misiones. January, 1911; January 12, 1911. (No. 35.) Two 

 males, one female. 



This species appears to us to be an Atrachelacris and not a Dichro- 

 plus as described. From A. unicolor it differs in the more elongate 

 and distad subfalcate cerci of the male, more compressed form, 

 broader fastigium, broader and distinctly sulcate dorsal section of 

 the frontal costa, shorter and smaller eyes and more mottled greenish 

 coloration. There is no close relationship of this form to A . gramineus 

 Bruner. *2 



In addition to the above specimens, we have before us a single 

 female from Sapucay, Paraguay (Hebard Collection), taken January 

 20, 1905 (Foster). The only difference worthy of note is that in the 

 Sapucay female the fastigium is even wider than in the Misiones 

 female. 



The localities from which the species is known are Chapada, Matto 

 Grosso, Brazil, Sapucay, Paraguay, and the Misiones, Argentina. 



^ Ann. Carneg. Mus., VIII, p. 129. This species equals A. unicolor Bruner, 

 1900 {nee Giglio-Tos, 1894). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



Dichroplus pratensis Bruner. 



1900. Dichroplus pratensis Bruner, Sec. Rep. Merch. Locust Invest. Comm. 

 Buenos Aires, p. 74, figs. 36 and 37. [Provinces of Santa Fe and Buenos 

 Aires, Argentina.] 



Buenos Aires. February 20, 1908. One female. 



La Carlota, Province of Cordoba. Elev. 142 meters. May 7-9, 



1907. Four males. 



San Juan, Prov. of San Juan. Elev. 673 meters. January 17, 

 1909. One female. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. March 31, 



1908. One female. 



San Ignacio, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,235 meters. March 

 5-22, 1908; April 5, 1908. Four females. 



The Buenos Aires and San Juan individuals are similar in 

 coloration to four specimens from Carcarana, Argentina, the San 

 Juan female being slightly smaller than the others of that sex. The 

 La Carlota, Mendoza, and San Ignacio representatives are very 

 somberly colored with little contrast in the markings, the general 

 tone varying from broccoli brown to clove brown. The La Carlota 

 specimens have the reduction in contrast more decided than in any 

 of the other individuals, while in size they average larger than the 

 Carcarana specimens. The females from San Juan and Mendoza 

 Provinces are all slightly or considerably smaller than Carcarana or 

 Buenos Aires individuals of the same sex. 



The localities in Mendoza and San Juan here given constitute the 

 western limit of the range of the species. 



Dichroplus elongatus Giglio-Tos. 



1894. D[ichroplus] elongatus Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp., 

 Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 23. [San Pablo, Province of Tucuman, Argentina; 

 Villa Rica and Asuncion, Paraguay.] 



San Juan, Prov. of San Juan. Elev. 673 meters. January 12-22, 



1909. Twenty males, nine females. 



Caucete, Prov. of San Juan. Elev. 567 meters. January 13 and 

 17, 1909. Eighteen males, ten females, one immature female. 



La Paz, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 504 meters. December 19, 

 1909. One male. 



Pedregal, Prov. of Mendoza.. Elev. 696 meters. November 20, 

 1906; December 12, 1906. Two males. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. January 3, 

 March 14 and 31, April 24, May 7, 11, and 31, June 5, December 3, 

 5, and 12, 1908. Eleven males, eleven females. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. Feb- 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



ruary 7, 1907; March 15 and 16, 1907 and 1908; April 7, 10, and 18, 

 1907. Five males, two females. 



San Ignacio, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev, 1,325 meters. January 

 15, 1909; March 15 and 22, 1908; April 5, 1908; December 13, 1908. 

 Eleven males, nine females. 



Potrerillos, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,368 meters. February 

 23, 1908. One male. 



Buenos Aires. May 3, 1907. One female. 



This very interesting series of one hundred and eleven specimens 

 shows that considerable variation in size and color is present in the 

 species. Apparently the size variation is more geographic and 

 enviromnental than individual. The San Juan and Caucete series 

 are very similar in proportions and size, such individual variation In 

 the latter as is noticed being found in both lots. The La Paz, Pedre- 

 gal, Mendoza, and large portion of the Chacras de Coria and San 

 Ignacio series are uniformly smaller, with shorter tegmina and 

 consequent more robust appearance. Two males and two females 

 from San Ignacio and several males from Chacras de Coria are similar 

 in general form to the San Juan and Caucete lots. A single male 

 from Mendoza is of similar proportions, but the size is no greater 

 than the other Mendoza specimens. Apparently at these three 

 localities the differences are environmental, as they are decided and 

 correlated with color characters. Such differences produced by 

 isimilar agencies are frequently found in species of the allied North 

 American genus Melanoplus. 



The first color type, which almost invariably has longer tegmina 

 than the second, is always paler, the base color varying from buff to 

 nearly ochraceous, with the median portion of the dorsum more or 

 less suffused with tawny to chestnut. The postocular bars are always 

 decidedly indicated and the base color of the femora and tibiae in 

 the two forms varies with the general base color. The second type 

 has the base color nearer gamboge and saffron yellow, but little 

 evident, however, as the overlying suffusion of from clove brown to 

 clay color is, as a rule, heavier and more extensive than in the first 

 type, permitting less contrast between the region of the postocular 

 bars and other areas. The females of this latter type are much 

 duller than the male. The dark suffusion of the sharply delimited 

 dorsal two-thirds or so of the external face of the caudal femora 

 varies greatly in intensity, usually more solid and darker in the 

 individuals of the second type. 



Representative individuals of both sexes taken at random from 

 the larger series measure as follows: 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



San Juan (Type 1). Caucete (Type 1). 



Male. Female. Male. Female. 



mm. mm. mm. mm. 



Length of body 22.5 28. 21.5 25.2 



Length of pronotum 4.5 6. 4.6 6. 



Length of tegmen 19. 22.5 18. 21.2 



Length of caudal femur 11.8 14.7 11.5 14.5 



San Ignacio (Type 1). 



Male. Female, 



mm. mm. 



Length of body 21.5 28 . 5 



Length of pronotum 4.5 6.2 



Length of tegmen ;. ' 17.8 22. 



Length of caudal femur _ 11.5 15. 



Mendoza (Tj-pe 2). San Ignacio (TjT)e 2). 



Male. Female. Male. Female. 



mm. mm. mm. mm. 



Length of body 19. 25.2 21. 26.5 



Length of pronotum 4.2 5.5 4.5 5.5 



Length of tegmen 15.5 18.3 15.5 19. 



Length of caudal femur 10.2 13. 10.5 13.5 



This species has been recorded from as far north as Villa Rica and 

 Asuncion, Paraguay, and San Pablo, Tucuman, Argentina, south to 

 the Provinces of Santa Fe, Cordoba, Mendoza, and Buenos Aires, 

 Argentina. 



Dichroplus punctulatus (Thunberg). 



1824. Gr[yllus] punctulatus Thunberg, Mem. I'Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersb., 

 IX, p. 408. [BrazU.] 



Misiones. January 5, 1909; February 16, 1910; November 9, 

 1909; December 2-30, 1909-1910. (Nos. 26 and 33.) Four males, 

 eight females. 



Buenos Aires. May 6, 1907. One female. 



Los Cisnes, Argentina. May 13, 1907. One female. 



This series shows considerable color and size variation, the most 

 striking of which is found in a single female from Misiones, which is 

 distinctly larger than the average of the species and has the proximo- 

 dorsal pale band on the caudal femora and the "hour-glass "-shaped 

 figure on the dorsum of the pronotum cream-buff, in striking contrast 

 to the remainder of the body color. 



This widely distributed species ranges south as far as the Rio 

 Negro region of Patagonia. 

 23 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Dichroplus conspersus Bruner. 



1900. Dichroplus conspersus Bruner, Sec. Rep. Merch. Locust Invest. 

 Comm. Buenos Aires, p. 76, fig. 41. [Southern Santa Fe and eastern 

 Cordoba Provinces, Argentina.] 



Buenos Aires. May 3, 1907. One female. 



This specimen has been compared with Carcarana individuals 

 received from Bruner. The localities given above are all known for 

 the species. 



* Dichroplus dubius Bruner. 



1906. Dichroplus dubius Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 682. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. January 3-14, 1910; December 12, 1910. (No. 9.) 

 Two males, two females. 



These individuals are found to be inseparable from topotypes. 

 The Misiones and Sapucay, Paraguay, are the only localities known 

 for the species. 



Dichroplus vittatus Bruner. 



1900. Dichroplus vittatus Bruner, Sec. Rep. Merch. Locust Invest. Comm. 

 Buenos Aires, p. 77, figs. 43 and 44. [Provinces of Santa Fe, Cordoba, 

 San Luis ("Louis") and Mendoza ("Mendosa"), Argentina.] 



San Juan, Prov. of San Juan. Elev. 673 meters. January 16-17, 

 1909. Three males, two females. 



Caucete, Prov, of San Juan. Elev. 567 meters. January 11, 

 1909. One female. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. March 20, 

 April 24, May 1-31, June 12, 1908. Twelve males, four females. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. Feb- 

 ruary 9, April 5 and 7, 1907. One male, two females. 



San Ignacio, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,235 meters. March 23, 

 April 5, 1908. Three males, one female. 



Cordillera de Mendoza. March 20, 1908. One male, one female. 



We have before us, in addition to the above series, two pairs of 

 typical material from Rosario, received from Bruner. It is evident 

 that the insect varies greatly in size, wholly individually so it appears. 

 The Mendoza series alone contains specimens of both sexes showing 

 this very clearly, the extremes of both sexes measuring as follows: 

 length of body, d" 14.3-17.5 mm., 9 20-24.2; length of pronotum, 

 d" 3.3-4, 9 4.2-6; length of tegmen, cT 5.2-6.8, 9 7-9.2; length of 

 caudal femur, cf 8.6-9.5, 9 11-13. All of the individuals in the 

 present series are brachypterous. 



In color the variation is considerable, but apparently this is almost 

 wholly geographic. The series from Mendoza Province have a more 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



olive green tone than any of the Caucete or San Juan specunens, 



which are more yellowish on the pale areas and more contrastingly 



colored. 



The species has been reported from the Provinces of Santa Fe, 



Cordoba, San Luis, San Juan, and Mendoza, Argentina. 



*Dichroplus brasiliensis Bruner. 



1906. Dichroplus brasiliensis Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, pp. 

 678, 682. [Victoria, BrazU.] 



Misiones. December 14, 1910. (No. 28.) One male. 



This specimen measures as follows: length of body, 19.5 mm.; 

 length of pronotum, 4.2; length of tegmen, 16; length of caudal 

 femur, 10.5. 



The records of the species are from Victoria (Bruner), Sao Paulo 

 (Rehn), Espirito Santo (Rehn), Rio de Janeiro (Bruner; Rehn), 

 Brazil and the Misiones. 



* Dichroplus robustulus St&l. 



1878. P[ezotettix] robustulus St&l, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad, 

 Handl., V, No. 9, p. 7. [Sao Leopoldo, southern BrazU.] 



Misiones. May 6, 1910; April 23, 1909; December 14, 1910. 

 (No. 22.) Three females. 



This well-marked species has previously been reported from the 



localities given above and Chapada, Matto Gros.so, Brazil (Bruner). 



Dichroplus bergii (St&l). 



1878. P[ezotettix] Bergii Stkl, ibid., V, No. 9, p. 6. [Buenos Aires, Parand, 

 Corrientes, Argentina.] 



Misiones. March 15-27, 1909; April 23 and 30, 1910. Four 

 males, ten females. 



Posadas, Misiones. Elev. 80 meters. March 6, 1907. Two 

 females. 



Buenos Aires. February 20, 1909. Two females. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. June 12, 1908. 

 One female. 



This species shows considerable variation in size as well as in the 

 intensity of the broad postocular bars. The caudal tibiae of all the 

 Misiones and Mendoza individuals are decided deep glaucous blue, 

 the Buenos Aires specimen agreeing with Rosario and Carcarana 

 representatives in having these oil green. In the series from 

 Sapucay, Paraguay, previously recorded by us,*^ the color of the 

 tibiae is deep indigo blue in about half of the males and deep oil green 

 in all of the females, the remainder of the males varying in this 



« Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 188. 




346 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



respect from deep oil green to a paler tone of the same, with one 

 individual having them glaucous green. 



This species has been recorded from as far north as Bolivia (Bruner), 

 Province of San Pedro, Paraguay (Giglio-Tos), and Brazil (Bruner), 

 south to Uruguay (Bruner) and Buenos Aires (Stal) , west to Mendoza. 



*Leiotettix sanguineus Bruner. 



1906. Leiotettix sanguineus Bruner, Proc, U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 687. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Misiones. December 14, 1910. (No. 29.) Two males, one 

 female. 



These specimens are smaller than topotypes, which are also before 

 us, although otherwise they are inseparable. A pair of the Misiones 

 individuals measure as follows: 



Male. Female. 



Length of body 16.5 mm. 20.2 mm. 



Length of pronotum 3.5 " 4.5 '* 



Length of tegmen 13.5 " 16.2 " 



Length of caudal femur 9.2 " 11.3 " 



Information with the specimens is to the effect that the species is 

 common. It has only been recorded from Sapucay, Paraguay, 

 Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil, and the Misiones, Argentina. 

 Leiotettix politus n. sp. 



Type: cf ; Misiones, Argentina. December 12, 1910. (P. Jor- 

 gensen. No. 6. [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,219.] 



Allied to L. sanguineus Bruner, but differing in the narrower 

 interspace between the eyes, less protuberant and more 

 ovoid eyes, less regularly rugulose dorsum of the 

 pronotum, the more decided median carina of the same, 

 the decidedly blunt instead of strongly acute prosternal 

 spine, the slenderer distal portion of the cerci, the more 

 brownish coloration and pale reddish caudal tibiae. 

 There is no close relationship to either L. flavipes Bruner 

 or hastatus Rehn. 



Size small; form moderately compressed. Head 

 with the interspace between the eyes but little more 

 than half the width of the fastigium, moderately 

 expanding caudad; fastigium considerably declivent, 

 distinctly broader than long, rounding into the decidedly 

 retreating face; frontal costa regularly expanding 

 caudad, wider even dorsad than the interspace between 

 the eyes, moderately excavate immediately dorsad and 

 ventrad of the ocellus, dorsal portion strongly punctate; 



Fig. U.— Le- 

 iotettix po- 

 litus n. sp. 

 Dorsal 

 outline of 

 head and 

 pronotum 

 of type. 

 (X3.) 




1913.] JNATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



eyes broad subovoid, the greatest width about three-fourths of the 

 length, not prominent when viewed from the dorsum; antennae 

 sUghtly longer than the head and pronotum together. Pronotum 

 with the greatest dorsal width about two-thirds of the length, the 

 width of the dorsum subequal except for the faintest widening near 

 the caudal margin; cephalic margin truncate, caudal margin obtuse- 

 angulate with the immediate angle broadly rounded; median carina 

 distinct, sharp, but not high; lateral shoulders narrowly rounded; 

 transverse sulci three in number, the caudal one placed slightly 

 caudad of the middle; lateral lobes with the greatest dorsal length 

 greater than the depth, ventral margin broadly obtuse-angulate 

 with the cephalic portion sinuate; surface of the dorsum and lateral 

 lobes, aside from the usual glabrous area on the prozona of the 

 lateral lobes, strongly impresso-punctate, on the dorsum rugulose, the 

 rugae arranged in a crudely linear fashion on the metazona. Tegmina 

 surpassing the tips of the caudal femora by nearly the length of the 

 head, narrow, the apex completely rounded. Prosternal spine 

 strongly retrorse, blunt conical, nearly in contact with the mesoster- 

 nal margin; interspace between the mesosternal lobes decidedly 

 longitudinal, the length contained about twice in the width, the 

 margins slightly diverging caudad, the angles well 

 rounded; metasternal lobes in contact for the greater 

 portion of their length, the suture linear. Furcula 

 very minute, subparallel, closely placed, linear lobes; 

 supra-anal plate subtrigonal in general form, the Fig. 15.— Le- 

 margins rounded, the apex obtuse, proximal half with utus\. sp. 

 a well-impressed medio-longitudinal sulcus ; cerci Lateral 

 falcate, considerably^ exceeding the supra-anal plate j^pg^ of ab- 

 in length, the proximal third broader, sharply narrow- d o m e n 

 ing, thence subequal to the tapering, acute distal (^ >< 4 ) 

 extremity, when seen from the dorsum the form of the 

 cercus is slightly sigmoid; subgenital plate considerably produced, 

 narrowing, when seen from the side straight except for a slight 

 •proximal arcuation, apex blunt, rounded. Caudal femora with 

 their tips very slightly surpassing the apex of the abdomen; caudal 

 tibiae armed on the external margin with nine spines. 



General color russet dorsad, becoming mars brown on the pro- 

 notum, ventral surface wax yellow; a pair of more or less distinct 

 subparallel clove brown lines extend from the fastigium caudad to 

 the caudal margin of the dorsum of the pronotum, the area between 

 these on the head wax yellow caudad, on each side a narrow line of 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the same color extends caudad from the eye on the head alone, these 

 cutting off from the dorsal color a broad postocular bar, which is 

 contrasted ventrad with the uniform wax yellow gense. The latter 

 color also covers the face and the ventral half of the lateral lobes of 

 the pronotum; eyes very pale broccoli brown spotted with clove 

 brown; antennae pale ochraceous tipped with clove brown. Dorso- 

 median portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum with a shining 

 bar of blackish. Ventro-lateral carina of the caudal femoral pagina 

 wax yellow, ventral face of the femora and the caudal tibiae Chinese 

 orange, the spines pale yellow tipped with black; caudal genicular 

 arches black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 18 . mm. 



Length of pronotum '... 4. " 



Length of tegmen : 15 .3 " 



Length of caudal femur 10.2 " 



In addition to the type, we have before us a paratypic male which 

 shows no important differences from the type. A label with the 

 material states that the species is "very common." 

 Leiotettix pulcher n. sp. 



Type: cf ; Misiones, Argentina. December 12, 1910. (P. Jor- 

 gensen, No. 5.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,222.] 



Closer to L. hastatus Rehn^ than to any other species of the genus, 

 but differing from that in the smaller size, distinctly narrower and 

 less declivent fastigium, which is also more decidedly excavate, the 

 more compressed pronotum, more angulate caudal margin of the 

 disk of the pronotum, the different sculpture of the supra-anal plate, 

 in the more elongate cerci, which are subfalcate distad, and in the 

 less produced subgenital plate. The color of the caudal tibiae 

 immediately separates this species from flavipes Bruner, but in addi- 

 tion to that the present species can be distinguished by the narrower 

 distal section of the cerci, shorter subgenital plate, and less declivent 

 and more excavate fastigium. The female is very similar to that sex 

 of flavipes, but the pronotum is more constricted, with the caudal 

 margin of the lateral lobes straighter and more vertical, and the tibiae 

 are red. 



Size medium; form rather slender. Head with the occiput very 

 slightly arcuate; interocular space broad, hardly narrower than the 

 greatest width of the fastigium and approximately equal to half of 



** Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 189, fig. 1.3. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



349 



the width of one of the eyes; fastigium moderately declivent, round- 

 ing into the frontal eosta, considerably excavate ; frontal 

 costa broad, nearly as wide as the interspace between 

 the eyes, slightly narrowing dorsad, subequal from 

 slightly dorsad of the insertion of the antennae ventrad, 

 broadly and deeply sulcate from slightly dorsad of the 

 ocellus, dorsal portion impresso-punctate; face consid- 

 erably retreating; eyes ovoid, not very prominent, dis- 

 tinctly longer than the infra-ocular portion of the sul- 

 cus; antennae slightly exceeding the length of the head 

 and pronotum combined. Pronotum verj' appreciably 

 constricted mesad; dorsum with the cephalic margin pig. 16.— Le- 

 arcuato-truncate, caudal margin very broadly obtuse- iotettix 

 angulate with the immediate angle subtruncate and the gp. ^ Dor- 

 lateral portions of the angles slightly sinuate, greatest sal outline 

 caudal width of the disk contained about one and one- ^ n d p r o- 

 half times in the length of the same ; lateral angles nar- . n o t u m 

 rowly rounded, more decided on the metazona than (*X35^^' 

 on the prozona ; median carina very weak on the prozona, 

 moderately elevated on the metazona; principal transverse sulcus 

 placed very slightly caudad of the middle; lateral lobes slightly longer 

 than deep, ventral margin decidedly obtuse-angulate mesad. Tegmina 

 very slightly surpassing the tips of the caudal femora, subequal in width 

 for the greater part of their length, apex rotundato-truncate. Pro- 

 sternal spine conical, erect; interspace between the mesosternal 

 lobes strongly longitudinal, the width contained nearly twice in 

 the length, internal margins of the lobes slightly arcuate, caudal 

 angle hardly rounded; metasternal lobes contiguous. Furcula very 

 short, contiguous, spiniform; supra-anal plate crudely semi-ovate 

 in outline, the apex obtuse-angulate, laterad of which on each side 

 is placed another very slight angulation, proximal two-thirds of the 

 plate with a distinct median sulcus bounded laterad 

 ^^^^^^^^ by considerably elevated carinse, remainder of the plate 

 Ci /\7 appreciably excavate; cerci surpassing the apex of the 

 ^"^--......^jT^ supra-anal plate, considerably tapering in the proximal 



half, thence subfalciform and slightly excavate mesad 

 on the external face, when seen from the dorsum they 

 are moderately in-bowed in a sigmoid fashion; sub- 

 genital plate moderately produced, the marginal length 

 subequal to the proximal width, margin slightly arcuate 

 when seen from the side, form of the elevated margin 

 when seen from the dorsum semi-elliptical, the apex not 



Fig. 17.— Le- 

 iotettix pid- 

 cher n. sp. 

 Lateral 

 outline o f 

 apex of ab- 

 d o m e n 

 of type. 

 (X4.) 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



marginal, the true apex bluntly tuberculate. Cephalic and median 

 femora slightly inflated. Caudal femora slender; caudal tibiae 

 armed on the external margin with nine spines. 



General color of the dorsum prout's brown, passing on the tegmina 

 into pale raw umber. Head with the face bice green, passing into 

 apple green on the gense; a broad postocular bar greenish-black, 

 margined dorsad by a narrow area of yellowish; eyes tawny-olive; 

 antennae prout's brown. Postocular bar continued over the lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum, becoming obsolete on the metazona, the dorsal 

 portion of the bar decidedly greenish, ventral portion black, remainder 

 of lateral lobes ecru drab cephalad, greenish caudad. Cephalic and 

 median limbs between oil and bice green in color, lined more or less 

 with black. Caudal femora oil green dorsad, external face citron 

 yellow ventrad, genicular arched black; caudal tibise and tarsi pale 

 coral red, spines salmon at base, distad tipped with black. 



Allotype: 9 ; data similar to that of the type. 



Differing from the male sex in the following important characters ; 

 Size moderately large; form moderately robust. Interspace between 

 the eyes about equal to three-fourths the width of one of the eyes; 

 fastigium shallowly excavate; frontal costa broad, very faintly 

 expanding caudad, excavate only in the vicinity of the ocellus; eye 

 more reniform than ovate. Interspace between the mesosternal 

 lobes contained about one and one-half times in the length of the 

 same; metasternal lobes but shghtly separated caudad. Coloration 

 very similar to that of the male, but the dorsal color is more hazel 

 than prout's brown. 



Measurements. 



Type Allotype 



(male). (female). 



Length of body 20. mm. 25.8 mm. 



Length of pronotum 4.6 " 6. " 



Length of tegmen 16. " 19.3 " 



Length of caudal femur 11.2 " 14.5 '' 



In addition to the type and allotype, we have before us two para- 

 typic males. These males fully agree with the type, and the differen- 

 tial characters of the female sex are given above. A label with the 

 specimens tells us they are "very common." 

 Paradichroplus nigrigena n. sp. 



Type: cT ; Misiones, Argentina. May 1, 1909. (P. Jorgensen.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,220.] 



A very peculiar species which seems to be closer to P. bilohus and 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



hrunneri Giglio-Tos than to any of the other forms of the genus. 

 From the former it can be immediately separated by the absence of 

 decided lobiform furci>la, while from the latter it can readily be 

 distinguished by the heavier, deeper head, the more vertical face, the 

 more elongate supra-anal plate, the more' tapering and strongly 

 incurved cerci, the less produced subgenital plate and very different 

 coloration. 



Size medium; form robust. Head not elevated dorsad of the k-vel 

 of the pronotum, the interocular region and the fastigium regularly 

 declivent; interocular width moderate, slightly greater than the 

 interantennal width of the frontal costa, hardly more than a 

 third the width of the eye; fastigium distinctly transverse, margins 

 distinct and rectangulate, surface of the fastigium and the inter- 

 ocular portion of the vertex very slightly excavate; face moderately 

 retreating, subvertical for a very short distance dorsad, forming a 

 slight obtuse angle at the junction with the fastigium; frontal costa 

 in general subequal in width, the average breadth slightly less than 

 that of the interocular portion of the vertex, strongly narrowing 

 dorsad to the junction with the fastigium, slightly narrowed imme- 

 diately ventrad of the ocellus, sulcate throughout ; antennae about 

 two and one-half times the length of the pronotum; eye not at all 

 prominent when seen from above, in outline reniform-ovate, 

 the infra-ocular portion of the genae about two-thirds the length of 

 the eye. Pronotum roughly semicylindrical, the dorsum regularly 

 rounding into the lateral lobes, no shoulders present but a very brief 



Fig. 18. — Paradichroplus nigrigena n. Fig. 19. — Paradichroplus nigrigena n. 

 sp. Dorsal outline of apex of abdo- sp. Lateral outline of apex of abdo- 



men of type. ( X 4.) men of type. ( X 4.) 



carina indicated cephalad on each side; cephalic margin arcuate 

 with the faintest possible median emargination, caudal margin very 

 broadly but decidedly emarginate; median carina faintly indicated, 

 but continuous; prozona twice as long as the metazona; lateral 

 lobes decidedly longitudinal, the depth contained nearly twice in the 

 length, ventral margin obtuse-angulate mesad; surface of the 

 metazona strongly punctate when compared with the prozona. 

 Tegmina linear, hardly equal to the length of the pronotum, very 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



slightly expanding distad, the greatest width contained slightly 

 more than three times in the length, apex rounded. Prosternal 

 spine stout, erect, conical, blunt; interspace between the mesosternal 

 lobes distinctly but not greatly transverse, internal margins of the 

 lobes well rounded; metasternal lobes subcontiguous caudad. 

 Abdominal segments with a distinct median longitudinal carina; 

 furcula present as very brief trigonal acute subcontiguous fingers; 

 supra-anal plate trigonal, the margins regularly converging, the apex 

 acute, sulcate mesad for the entire length of the plate, a pair of 

 deeper and broader converging lateral depressions separated from 

 the median sulcation by low ridges; cerci slightly exceeding the 

 supra-anal plate in length, styliform, the base broad, thence 

 regularly narrowing to the blunt apex, the narrowing being wholly 

 due to the oblique excision of the ventral margin, the dorsal margin 

 being straight, when seen from the dorsum the distal two-thirds of 

 the cercus is regularly incurved; subgenital plate broad, the proximal 

 width considerably exceeding the length of the lateral margin, when 

 seen from the side the lateral margin is straight, when seen from the 

 dorsum the margins are seen to be converging at an acute angle, the 

 apex slightly produced and labiate. Cephalic and median femora 

 considerably inflated and bowed. Caudal femora about two and 

 one-half times as long as the pronotum, rather slender; caudal 

 tibiae armed on the external margin with nine spines. 



General color of the dorsum prout's brown. Head with the face 

 and cephalic portion of the gense tawny-olive, remainder of the gense 

 shining seal brown, partially separated from a postocular area of the 

 same color by a blotch of naples yellow, the postocular section being 

 bordered dorsad by a narrow edging of the same yellow; eyes ochra- 

 ceous; antennae ochraceous-rufous. Pronotum with a distinct 

 subequal arcuate postocular bar of shining seal brown, the dorsal 

 margin of which is weakened and poorly defined; ventral portion 

 of the lateral lobes naples yellow, sharply delimited dorsad and with 

 a ventral marginal edging of seal brown. Tegmina bistre with a very 

 narrow marginal line of naples yellow dorsad. Venter of the thorax 

 and abdomen cinnamon, this color covermg most of the apex of the 

 abdomen; lateral bars on the abdomen bistre, prominent proximad 

 on the abdomen and becoming obsolete about the middle of the same. 

 Pleura dark bistre with two spots of naple-5 3^ellow, one of which is a 

 continuation of the ventral yellow section of the lateral lobes. 

 Cephalic and median limbs pale oil green, becoming yello\\ish 

 proximad on the femora. Caudal femora oil green on the lateral 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



face, the dorsal, ventral and internal faces gamboge yellow, the distal 

 extremity almost wholly blackish with a very weak whitish edging 

 to the genicular lobes; caudal tibiae glaucous blue, the spines cream 

 at the base and tipped with black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 18 . mm. 



Length of pronotum 4.2 ^^ 



Length of tegmen ^-^ ^^ 



Length of caudal femur 11-2 



The type of this interesting species is unique. 



Osmilia violacea (Thunberg). 



1824. Gr[ijllus] inolaceus Thunberg, Mem. I'Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersb., 

 IX, p. 413. [Brazil.] 



Misiones. March 18-29, 1909-1910; April 5 and 12, 1909; 

 September 1-11, 1910; October 1, 1910; December 12, 1908. 

 (Nos. 16 and 31.) Eight males, seven females. 



Information with this material is to the effect that the species is 

 "common in forest." 



The range of this form has not been clearly defined, owing to 

 considerable confusion with other species of the genus, but in Argen- 

 tina it has also been reported from San Lorenzo, Jujuy (Giglio-Tos), 

 Chaco (Bruner) and Tucuman (Bruner). 



Family TETTIGONIDJE. 

 SubfamUy PHANEROPTERIN.E. 



*Tetana grisea Bmnner. 



1878. T[etana] grisea Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 120, pi. II, 

 fig. 20A-B. [Chile.] 



Alto Pencosa, Prov. of San Luis. Elev. 660 meters. December 

 '20-22, 1908. Two males. 



San Juan, Prov. of San Juan. Elev. 673 meters. January 20, 

 1909. One male. 



These specimens are referred to this species with some little doubt, 

 :as the fastigium is more or less sulcate and the generic description of 

 Tetana says "non sulcato." The tegmina also appear slightly 

 longer proportionately than in the figure, but the length measure- 

 ments are in accord with those given by Brunner. It is also possible 

 that the individuals from Alto Pencosa are distinct from that from 

 San Juan, but the differences noted are probably individual. 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May^ 



BURGILIS St&I. 



This hitherto monospecific genus is represented in the present 

 series by three species, none of which are the same as the type 

 species — B. curta (Serville). The following key will assist in the 

 determination of the four species now known. 



A.— Ovipositor of female nearly straight curta (Serville). 



AA. — Ovipositor of female distinctly curved. 



B. — Ovipositor distinctly exceeding the cephalic femora in length. 

 Exposed portion of wings of male very slender, the depth 



contained over four times in the length of same 



mendosensis n. sp. 

 BB. — Ovipositor subequal to the cephalic femora in length. Ex- 

 posed portion of wings of male less slender, the depth 

 contained less than four times in the length of same. 

 C. — Tegmina tapering distad; marginal field suddenly 

 narrowed mesad. Costal margin of male tegmina 



markedly white mesad grandis n. sp. 



CC— Tegmina tapering gradually distad; marginal field not 

 suddenly narrowed mesad. Costal margin of male 

 tegmina not white mesad missionum n. sp. 



Burgilis mendosensis n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Potrerillos, Prov. of Mendoza, Argentina. Elev. 1,368 

 meters. December 26, 1907. (P. Jorgensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., type No. 5,221.] 



The larger ovipositor of this species readily separates it from the 

 other forms before us. In the male the very narrow exposed portion 

 of the wings is sufficiently diagnostic to immediately separate the 

 form. 



Size medium; form subcompressed. Head with the fastigium of 

 the vertex hardly wider than half of the proximal antennal joint,, 

 moderately declivent, moderately constricted mesad, rather bulbous 

 distad, sulcate; facial fastigium slightly broader than that of the 

 vertex, almost touching the same; antennae about twice the length 

 of the body; eye moderately prominent, 

 subovate, of medium size. Pronotum with the 

 dorsum deplanate, very faintly concave 

 Fig. 20.~Burgilis men- cephalo-caudad, the width of the dorsum 



H?eT/'oviposito^"of subequal and contained one and one-half times 



type. (X3.) in the pronotal length ; cephalic margin faintly 



arcuato-emarginate, caudal margin arcuate, 



lateral angles continuous and distinct, most decided caudad, wher& 



they are very slightly diverging; lateral lobes with the depth con- 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



tained one and one-half times in the length, ventral margin arcuato- 

 -emarginate dorsad of the coxae, ventro-caudal angle and caudal 

 margin broadly rounded, humeral sinus acute-angulate incised. 

 Tegmina two and two-thirds times as long as the head and pronotum, 

 acute lanceolate, the greatest width in the proximal half, distad of 

 which the tegmina taper to the narrowly rounded apex; marginal 

 field in the proximal third of the tegmina but little narrower than 

 the width of the discoidal field in the same region, thence rather 

 abruptly narrowing to slightly distad of the middle of the tegmina 

 where the marginal field becomes non-existent; median vein diverging 

 •at the middle of the tegmen and. reaching the sutural margin of the 

 tegmen, simple; discoidal vein with a single complete ramus which 

 follows the median vein in trend. Wings with their exposed portion 

 slightly longer than half of the tegminal length, narrow, gently 

 tapering to the very acute apex. Cephalic tibiae with the dorsd- 

 caudal margin with four spines aside from the apical one, dorso- 

 •cephalic margin unarmed. Median tibiae with all of the margins 

 armed, the dorso-cephalic with fewer spines than the others. Caudal 

 'femora subequal to the length of the wings, unarmed ventrad. 

 Ovipositor slightly longer than the head and pronotum together, 

 gently arcuate, moderately robust, tapering, apex acute, ventral 

 margin slightly flattened in the proximal half, dorsal margin serrato- 

 ■dentate for two-thirds of its length, ventral margin more weakly 

 serrato-dentate for half of its length, surface of the ovipositor except 

 on the swollen proximal portion scabroso-dentate ; subgenital plate 

 trigonal with the distal extremity of the margin narrowly truncate. 



General color clay color, except the tegmina, exposed portion of 

 wings, distal two-thirds of the ovipositor and almost all of the tibiae 

 which are apple green. It is probable that apple green is the general 

 natural coloration. Eyes burnt umber. Tegmina with a brief 

 ■edging on the costal margin and a longer one on the sutural margin 

 buff. 



Allotype : cf ; Potrerillos, Province of Mendoza, Argentina. 

 Elev. 1,368 meters. January 20,1907. (P. Jorgensen.) [Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



The following characters are those of difference from the female 

 sex: 



Size rather small. Tegmina with the tympanum having the length 

 slightly greater than the width, the apex of the stridulating vein 

 Toundly projecting beyond the general arcuation of the tympanal 

 inargin. Exposed portion of the wings two-thirds as long as the 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May 



tegmina. Cerci simple, tapering in the proximal two-thirds, straight, 

 distal third regularly falcate inward, the same portion sub- 

 depressed, the apex spinif orm and slightly turned dorsad ; subgenital 

 plate moderately produced, the margin of the same deeply arcuato- 

 emarginate, no styles present. 



Color in general similar to that of the type, but the pleura, lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum, and the base of the limbs cream-buff, the 

 tibise tawny (the cephalic almost liver brown), and the proximal 

 portion of the tegmina of the general color. Tegmina with no pale 

 sutural edging, the posterior ulnar vein lined with chestnut distad 

 from the apical portion of the tympanum. 



Measurements. 



Type Allotype 



(female). (male). 



Length of body 20.7 mm, 15.3 mm. 



Length of pronotum 4.2 " 3.5 " 



Length of tegmen ' 18.5 " 15.5 " 



Greatest width of tegmen 4. " 3.5 " 



Length of exposed portion of wing 10. " 9.2 " 



Length of caudal femur 24.5 " 20.2." 



Length of ovipositor 8. " 



In addition to the type and allotype, we have before us a pair from 

 the type locality (January 29, 1907; December 27, 1907) and a single 

 female from San Ignacio, Province of Mendoza (March 22, 1908). 

 The additional Potrerillos female is slightly smaller than the type, 

 the San Ignacio female distinctly smaller, but otherwise they are 

 inseparable. 



Burgilis grandis n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Jujuy, Prov. of Jujuy, Argentina. April, 1911. 

 (P. Jorgensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,223.] 

 The combination of small ovipositor and decidedly tapering teg- 



Fig. 21. — Burgilis grandis n. sp. Out- Fig. 22. — Burgilis grandis n. sp. Outline 

 line of ovipositor of type. (X 3.) of tegmen of male allotype. ( X 2.) 



mina are diagnostic of this species, the character of the marginal 

 field of the male tegmina also being very distinctive. 



Size medium; form little compressed. Head with the fastigium 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



narrower than in B. mendocensis, but narrower and less decidedly 

 sulcate; frontal fastigium similar to that of mendocensis; eyes ovate, 

 moderately prominent. Pronotum similar to that of mendocensis, 

 but with the sinuation of the ventral margin less decided and 

 the humeral sinus subrectangulate. Tegmina about three times as 

 long as the head and pronotum combined, the general form similar 

 to that of mendocensis, but the marginal field is shghtly broader 

 and the discoidal vein has two distinct rami. Exposed portion of 

 the wings twice the length of the pronotum, apex slightly less acute 

 than in ynendocensis. Cephalic tibise with five to six spines on the 

 dorso-cephalic margin. Ovipositor subequal to the head and prono- 

 tum together in length, well arcuate, tapering, the dorsal margin 

 serrato-dentate on the distal half, irregularly serrulate on the proximal 

 half, ventral margin crenulato-serrate distad, becoming weakly 

 crenulate proximad, the surface of the ovipositor scabroso-dentate, 

 subgenital plate broad trigonal with the distal margin rounded. 



General coloration essentially the same as that of mendocensis, 

 but the tegmina have no buff edging and the dorsum of the head has 

 traces of maroon purple linings and the humeral angles of the prono- 

 tum have broken lines of the same color. 



Allotype: cf ; Jujuy, Province of Jujuy, Argentina. AjDril, 1911. 

 (P. Jorgensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



The following characters are those of difference from the female 

 sex: 



Marginal field of the tegmina very broad, subequal to the breadth 

 of the adjacent portion of the discoidal field; the narrowed distal 

 portion of the tegmina slightly broader than in the female ; tympanum 

 with the length nearly twice the width, speculum more regularly 

 narrowing caudad than in mendocensis. Cerci similar to those of 

 mendocensis, but shorter and less robust; subgenital plate with the 

 distal extremity somewhat wider than in mendocensis. 



General color similar to that previously described with the following 

 additions : dorsum of the head and pronotum and the dorsal portion 

 of the lateral lobes of the pronotum finely sprinkled with maroon 

 purple, the antennae strongly washed with the same; tegmina with 

 the extreme proximal portion of the discoidal field washed with 

 olive green, the tympanal curve of the posterior ulnar vein, the 

 speculum and the adjacent portion of the tympanum seal brown; 

 remainder of the anal field of the tegmina olive-yellow; marginal 

 field of the tegmina with a broad cream colored margin. 




35S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Measurements. 



Type Allotype 



(female). (male). 



Length of body 20. mm. 14. mm 



Length of pronotum 4. " 3.3 



Length of tegmen 18.5 " 18. 



Greatest width of tegmen 4.3 " 4.5 



Length of exposed portion of wing 7.4 " 9.8 



Length of caudal femur 23.5 " 20.5 



Length of ovipositor 5.8 " 



The type and allotype described above are all of the species seen 

 by us. 

 Burgilis missionum n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Misiones, Argentina. December, 1911. (P. Jor- 

 gensen, No. 5.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,224.] 



The short ovipositor and gradually tapering tegmina, which have 

 the marginal field not sharply narrowed and unmarked with white, 

 will readily separate this species. 



Size medium; form little compressed. Head with the fastigium 

 slightly narrower than in grandis and more distinctly sulcate, hardly 

 bulbous at the extremity; frontal fastigium narrower than in the 

 other species examined; eyes ovate. Pronotum of the form of the 

 other species, but shorter; lateral lobes with the depth contained one 

 and a third times in the length of the same, ventro-caudal angle of 

 the same obliquely subtruncate, humeral sinus rectangularly incised. 

 Tegmina three and one-half times as long as the head and pronotum, 

 regularly and not at all strongly tapering distad ; marginal field with 

 its greatest width distinctly less than that of the adjacent portion of 



Fig. 23. — Burgilis missionum n. sp. Fig. 24. — Burgilis missionum n. sp. 

 Outline of ovipositor of type. Outline of tegmen of male allotype. 



(X3.) (X2.) 



the discoidal field, regularly narrowing from the proximal third of 

 the tegmen to near the apex, without any decided point of excision; 

 apex obliquely subtruncate; median vein similar to that of the other 

 species of the genus; discoidal vein with three well-marked rami, all 

 reaching the sutural margin of the tegmen, the distal one practically 

 at the apex. Exposed portion of the wings about half the length of 

 the tegmina, the apex acute. Cephalic tibiae with four spines on the 

 dorso-caudal margin aside from the distal spine. Caudal femora 




1913.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



slightly surpassing the tegmina in length. Ovipositor subequal to 

 the head and pronotum in length, arcuate, slightly tapering, distal 

 half of the dorsal margin serrato-dentate, ventral margin crenulato- 

 dentate for almost the entire length, surface of the ovipositor scabroso- 

 dentate except on the swollen proximal portion; subgenital plate 

 trigonal with the distal margin very narrowly emarginato-truncate 

 mesad. 



General color pale clay color, the exposed portion of the wings, 

 distal half of the tegmina, anal field of the same, and all or part of the 

 tibiae apple green. We presume apple green was the color of the 

 whole insect in life. Eyes burnt umber. 



Allotype: cf ; Misiones, Argentina. December 14, 1910. (P. 

 Jorgensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 

 . The characters here given are those of difference from the female. 



Tympanum of the tegmina very similar in form to that of B. 

 grandis, but proportionately smaller; discoidal vein occasionally 

 (on one tegmen) with but two rami toward the sutural margin. 

 Cephalic tibiae occasionally with six spines on the dorso-caudal 

 margin in addition to the distal one. Cerci more elongate than in 

 the other species of the genus, the form nearer that found in mendo- 

 censis, but slenderer, the distal extremity less depressed and slightly 

 more spiniform; subgenital plate arcuato-emarginate distad, flanked 

 laterad by brief styliform processes. 



General color sulphur yellow on the head and pronotum, passing 

 into buff on the abdomen, tegmina and wings pale apple green, the 

 limbs more or less washed with the same color. Tegmina with the 

 marginal field unicolor; anal field with the tympanum and the longi- 

 tudinal area adjacent to it more or less uniformly prout's brown. 

 Eyes russet. 



Measurements. 



Type Allotype 



(female). (male). 



Length of body ... 16.5 mm. 14.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 3.8 '' 3.3 " 



Length of tegmen 21.3 " 17.5 " 



Greatest width of tegmen 4.1 " 3.8 " 



Length of exposed portion of wing 10. " 8.3 " 



Length of caudal femur 23. " 20.5 " 



Length of ovipositor 6. " 



In addition to the type and allotype, we have before us two para- 

 typic males taken January 12, 1910, and December 12, 1909. These 

 specimens show no noteworthy differences from the allotype. Infor- 

 24 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



mation with the specimens is to the effect that the species is "very 

 common." 



*Aniara proxima Brunner. 



1891. A7iiara proxmia Brunner, Verhandl. K. K. Zool.-bot. Gesellsch. 

 Wien, XLI, p. 58. [Lages, Santa Catharina, Brazil.] 



Misiones. November, 1910. (No. 9.) One male. 

 This specimen fully agrees with the original description except 

 that it is of larger size. The dimensions are as follows: 



Length of body 21. mm. 



Length of pronotum 4.8 " 



Length of tegmen 30.5 " 



Width of tegmen at proximal third 5.8 '' 



Length of caudal femur 19. " 



The species has also been recorded with a query from Sapucay, 

 Paraguay, by Caudell. 



Hyperophora brasiliensis Brunner. 



1878. H[yperophora] brasiliensis Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 126. 

 [Brazil.] 



Posadas, Misiones. Elev. 80 meters. March 6, 1909. One male. 



Misiones. April 30, 1909; December 12, 1909. Two males. 



These specimens are slightly smaller than individuals from 

 Sapucay, Paraguaj^ but otherwise inseparable. 



This species has been recorded from Brazil (Brunner), Sapucay 

 (Caudell; Rehn) and Prov. of San Pedro (Giglio-Tos), Paraguay, and 

 Buenos Aires, Argentina (Giglio-Tos). 

 Hyperophora angustipennis Brunner. 



1891. Hyperophora angustipennis Brunner, Verhandl. K. Iv. Zool.-bot. 

 Gesellsch. Wien, XLI, p. 59. [Cordoba, Argentine Republic] 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. March 

 13, 1907. One male. 



This beautiful species has only been recorded from Cordoba, 

 Santa Rosa, Salta (Giglio-Tos), and Chacras de Coria.^^ 



Hyperophora major Brunner. 



1878. H[yperophora] major Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 126, 

 pi. II, tig. 24a-6. [Buenos Aires.] 



Misiones. December 12, 1909. One female. 

 Corrientes, Prov. of Corrientes. Elev. 76 meters. March 3, 

 1909. One male. 



^ The record of this species from Sapucay, Paraguay, by the author (Ent. News, 

 XVI, p. 42) is erroneous, as a re-examination of the material shows it to belong 

 to H. minor, a species then unknown to him. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Embarcacion, Prov. of Salta. April, 1911. One female. 



Jujuy, Prov. of Jujuy. April, 1911. Two males. 



Pedregal, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 696 meters. December 1-19, 

 1906. Two males, one female. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. February 5, 

 1909. One male. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. January 

 1 and 11, 1908; February 26, 1908; April 7 and 24, 1907. Three 

 males, one female, one immature male. 



Potrerillos, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,368 meters. February 

 22, 1909. One female. 



This series shows very considerable variation in size and coloration. 

 In size, the only specimen equalling individuals from Sapucay, 

 Paraguay, previously measured^^ is the single female from the Mis- 

 iones, all the other representatives being slightly or considerably 

 smaller. In color, green is the predominating shade, but individuals 

 with buff the base color are from Potrerillos, Mendoza, Chacras de 

 Coria, and Corrientes, while two Jujuy females are much darker, 

 their base tone being clay color. In all of the brownish individuals 

 the infuscation of the dorsal section of the lateral lobes of the 

 pronotum and the continuation of the same marking distad over the 

 tegmina, margining the tympanum, and the anal field of the same, 

 is more or less decided and umber in color. In the Jujuy individuals 

 these ' areas are very strongly indicated, the tegmina also being 

 decidedly maculate on the discoidal field with the same shade. This 

 latter condition is suggested in certain of the buffy specimens. 



The species has also been recorded from Buenos Aires (Bruner) 

 and Santa Rosa, Salta (Giglio-Tos), Argentina, . and Sapucay, Para- 

 guay (Rehn). 



CALLINSARA47 „. gen. 



A member of the Insarce (Hormilice of authors) and related to 

 Insara Walker {Hormilia Stal and authors), from which it can 

 immediately be distinguished by the acuminate fastigium of the 

 vertex, which also is not in contact with the frontal fastigium, the 

 short bispinose genicular lobes of the caudal femora and the non- 

 dilated abdominal segments which have their dorsal margins not 

 produced mesad. 



Fastigium acuminate, sulcate, carinate ventrad, separated from 



« Proc. Acad. Nat. Set. Phila., 1907, p. 373. 

 «Ka'A2og, beautiful — Insara. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the frontal fastigium; eyes globose, prominent. Pronotum sub- 

 sellate, dorsum expanding caudad, lateral angles more or less 

 indicated; lateral lobes roughly quadrate, sublongitudinal. Tegmina 

 elongate-lanceolate, costal and sutural margins subparallel, apex 

 rounded; median vein simple, reaching the sutural margin, discoidal 

 vein with three rami similar to the median vein; anterior ulnar vein 

 with numerous oblique subparallel rami similar in form to the median 

 vein and the rami of the discoidal vein. Femora with the genicular 

 margins non-produced meso-dorsad. Tympanum of the cephalic 

 tibiae open on both faces. Caudal femora elongate, armed beneath 

 on both margins, genicular lobes brief, bispinose. 



Type. — C. clupeipennis n. sp. 

 CaUinsara clupeipennis ^^ n. sp. 



Type: cf ; Misiones, Argentina. December 30, 1910. (P. Jor- 

 gensen; No. 13.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,227.] 



Size medium; form subcompressed. Head with the base of the 

 fastigium horizontal, thence moderately declivent, lateral margin 

 moderately elevated, the apex rounded when seen from the side, 



Fig. 25.— CaUinsara clupeipennis n. gen. and sp. Lateral view of type. (X li? 



sublamellate ventrad; fastigium of face very broad, rounded, well 

 separated from that of the vertex; eyes very prominent; face with 

 strumose ridges distributed as follows: a brief postocular one, an 

 oblique one from the ventral portion of the eye to the ventro-caudal 

 angle of the gena and continued thence dorsad along the caudal 

 margin of the gena half-way to the postocular bar, oblique line from 

 the fastigium of the face to the corner of the clypeus and finally 

 ridges outlining the clypeus dorsad and laterad. Pronotum appre- 

 ciably sellate, the cephalic margin not at all greatly but sharply 

 elevated, caudal portion gradually and slightly elevated; dorsum 

 with the greatest caudal width contained one and one-quarter times 



^ Clupea, herring; pennis, wing— in allusion to the "herring-bone" color pattern 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



363 



in the length of the same; lateral angles indicated by callous ridges 

 similar to those on the head, sinuate on the cephalic 

 half, considerably diverging caudad, distinct but not 

 at all strong humeral shoulders developed caudad, a 

 very fine medio-longitudinal sulcus present on the 

 dorsum; cephalic margin very slightly arcuato-emargi- 

 nate, caudal margin considerably arcuate ; lateral lobes 

 with the greatest depth contained one and one-third 

 times in the length of the same, ventral margin sinuato- 

 arcuate, ventro-caudal angle subtruncate, humeral 

 sinus rotundato-rectangulate. Tegmina about one and 

 one-half times as long as the body, greatest width of the 

 marginal and discoidal fields contained about six times 

 in the tegminal length, the width gradually narrowing 

 to the middle, thence subequal to the well-rounded apex; 

 marginal field with its greatest width at the proximal 

 third, where jt is but little narrower than the adjacent 

 portion of the discoidal field, gradually narrowing thence 

 to practically the apex; costal transverse nervures near the base of 

 the marginal field forked, simple distad, all subcallose, oblique; 

 median vein diverging distinctly distad of the middle of the discoidal 

 vein, short, sinuate, oblique, reaching the sutural margin; rami of 

 the discoidal vein three in number, similar to the median vein in 

 form, length, and direction, two reaching the sutural margin, the 

 third reaching the apex; anterior ulnar vein with five veins similar 

 to the others of the discoidal field in character and direction, the 

 anterior ulnar vein far removed from the posterior ulnar vein and 

 close to and subparallel with the discoidal vein; tympanum with 

 the stridulating vein very strong, slightly oblique, speculum trig- 

 onal, the margin little produced at the apex of the stridulating vein. 

 Exposed portion of the wings slightly longer than the pronotum, 

 sutural margin straight, costal margin rounding to the apex which 

 is sutural in position. Lobes of the mesosternum and metasternum 

 broadly rounded. Disto-dorsal abdominal segment produced, trun- 

 cate, considerably emarginate laterad at the bases of the cerci; 

 supra-anal plate slightly elongate, trigonal, the apex well rounded; 



Fig. 27. — Callinsara clupeipennis n. 

 gen. and sp. Genicular region of 

 caudal limb of type. (X 3.) 



Fig. 2S.— Callinsara clupeipennis n. 

 gen. and sp. Dorsal outline of apex 

 of abdomen of type. ( X 3.) 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



cerci simple, tapering, slightly bent near the middle, thence incurved, 

 apex acute, spined; subgenital plate greatly produced, narrowing 

 distad, distal margin deeply arcuato-angulate emarginate, supplied 

 with rather short, distinct styles. Cephalic femora with two to three 

 spines on the ventro-cephalic margin and a single spine on the ventro- 

 caudal one; dorso-caudal margin of the cephalic tibiae with five 

 spines, one of which, is placed on the proximal dilation and the other 

 at the distal extremity, dorso-cephalic margin with only the single 

 distal spine or another additional one. Median femora with three or 

 four spines on the ventro-cephalic margin and one or two on the 

 ventro-caudal one. Caudal femora about three-fourths the length 

 of the tegmina, very slender, ventral margins with seven spines on 

 each, placed on little more than the distal half, genicular lobes bluntly 

 acute, not surpassing the dorsum of the femoral apex,- bispinose; 

 caudal tibise appreciably exceeding the femora in length, all of the 

 margins armed, the dorsal more thickly so than the ventral ones. 



General color oil green passing into clay color on the pleura and 

 abdomen. Head with the frontal fastigium, the base of the labrum 

 and the above-described strumose ridges cream color; eyes cinnamon; 

 antennae washed with saffron yellow. Pronotum faintly washed 

 with chrome yellow, median sulcation and the lateral angles dull 

 cream color, the latter margined ventro-cephalad and ventro-caudad 

 with ochraceous. Tegmina with a faint ochraceous tinge at the base 

 of the humeral trunk; principal longitudinal veins whitish, the 

 transverse veins of the marginal field, the rami of the anterior ulnar 

 vein, the median vein and the rami of the discoidal vein similarly 

 colored, on the marginal field the direct rami of the costales also 

 are similarly colored, the rami of the anterior ulnar vein having their 

 secondary ramifications for a very short distance each side of the 

 main rami also whitish, while the median vein and the rami of the 

 discoidal vein have this more extensive, involving the whole of 

 certain of the minor ramifications, the entire pattern being very 

 decided. Exposed portion of the wings with the principal veins 

 whitish in the same fashion as on the tegmina. Spines on the 

 femora black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 16.3 mm. 



Length of pronotum 3 . 7 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum " 3 . 



Length of tegmen . 27 . 



Greatest width of tegmen 4 , 5 



Length of caudal femur 20 . 



The type of this most interesting genus and species is unique. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



Ligocatinus spinatus (Brunner). 



1878. A[m.aura] spinata Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 248, pi. V, 

 fig. 74a-6. [Buenos Aires.] 



Buenos Aires. February 26, 1909. Three females. 



This species has been recorded from Caiza, Bohvian Chaco, 

 San Lorenzo, Jujuy, and Buenos Aires, Argentina. We also have 

 before us a pair from Rosario, Argentina, collected by Bruner. 



* Ligocatinus olivaceus (Brunner). 



1891. Amaura olivacea Brunner, Verhandl. K.-K. Zool.-bot. Gesell., XLI, 

 p. 123. [Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.] 



IMisiones. February 1, 1910; March 20, 1909. Two females. 



It seems probable that L. borrellii Giglio-Tos*^ is either a synonym 

 of the present species or certain of its supposed diagnostic characters 

 are not constant, such as the black median line on the dorsum of the 

 abdomen, which is strongly indicated in most of the specimens (five 

 in all) before us and almost completely absent in one. The character 

 of insertion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum is susceptible of much 

 latitude in individual interpretation, while the length of the ovipositor 

 and degree of angulation of the subgenital plate are not hard-and-fast 

 characters, as in the first case personal equation is a factor in deter- 

 mining the base of the ovipositor and in the second case the condition 

 of the specimen and the amount of flexure and compression of the 

 plate may lead to different conclusions. 



These specimens have been compared with individuals from 

 Sapucay, Paraguay, which is the only locality aside from the type 

 locality and that given above from which the species is known. 



*Ceraia cornutoides Caudell. 



1906. Ceraia cornutoides Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 237. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



IVIisiones. March 15, 1909. One female. 



This individual has been compared with topotypes. 



♦Vellea cruenta (Burmeister). 



1838. Ph[aneroptera] cruenta Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, Abth. II, 

 pt. 1, p. 691. [Rio Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Misiones. April 14, 1909. One female. 



This interesting species has been recorded from San Jose, Costa 

 Rica (Rehn), Demerara (Walker), Para (Walker), and Rio Janeiro 

 (Burmeister; Brunner). This is the most southern record for the 

 species. 



« Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino. XII, No. 302, p. 38. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Scaphura nigra (Thunberg). 



1824. Griyllus] niger Thunberg, Mem. I'Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Pet^rsb., IX, 

 p. 415. [Brazil.] 



Misiones. December 5, 1909. (No. 2.) One male, one female. 



We find no important color differences between the male specimen 

 and individuals from Sapucay, Paraguay, previously reported by us.^ 

 The female, on the other hand, belongs to the variety B of Brunner,^> 

 with the description of which it completely agrees. 



Gymnocera elegans Serville. 



1839. Gymnocera elegans Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins. Orthopt., p. 427. [Buenos 

 Aires.] 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. January 5, 

 1909; January 14, 1907; March 19 and 30, 1908; April 4, 9, and 24, 

 1908; May 6, 1908; December 13-20, 1907. Two males, eleven 

 females. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. Janu- 

 ary 1-31, 1907; January 9, 1908; February 4-24, 1907; March 16-30, 

 1907; April 4-24, 1907; December 5 (juv.), 6 (juv.), 9 (juv.), and 17, 

 1907. Ten males, twenty-five females, four immature specimens. 



Potrerillos, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,368 meters. February 

 23, 1908; December 27, 1907. Two females. 



This very interesting series gives us some desirable and definite 

 information on the extent of variation in this variable species as 

 found at a single locality. All of the specimens of the present species 

 are in the color phase which has metallic blue the most striking color 

 characteristic. The variation here noted are all aside from this base 

 color. The color of the tegmina also remains nearly uniform in the 

 series, varying only moderately in the depth of the ferruginous or 

 hazel of the same, the distal blackish area present on the tegmina of 

 all of the specimens seen. The pale maculation on the facial fastigium 

 and that on the fastigium of the vertex are invariably present, as is 

 the broad patch of the same on the ventral portion of the lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum and the obHque pale line on the pleura. The 

 dorsum of the pronotum may be without pale markings, with a single 

 small median pair or with an increasing number of pairs up to four, 

 these always arranged along the median line and variable in size, but 

 always in symmetrical pairs. Frequently the pairs run together, 

 forming bars, which tendency in a single extreme specimen is so 

 complete that we have paired pale lines extending from the cephalic 



^ Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 377. 

 ^^ Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 2.58. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3^7 



to the caudal margins of the disk. The antennae may or may not 

 be broadly annulate with buffy. In every case the caudal femora 

 have a median buffy white patch. 



In size there is-considerable individual variation. 



The species has been recorded from localities extending from 

 Buenos Aires and Montevideo south to Patagonia and west to 

 Santiago, Chile. 



StilpnocMora incisa Brunner. 



1878. St[ilpnochlora] incisa Brunner, ]\Ionogr. der Phaneropt., p. 361. 

 [Peru.] 



Jujuy, Prov. of Jujuy. April, 1911. One female. 

 This interesting species is known only from Peru, San Lorenzo 

 (Giglio-Tos), and Jujuy, Prov. of Jujuy, Argentina. 



*Posidippus dentiferus (Walker). 



1869. Steirodon dentiferum Walker, Catal. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., II, 

 p. 391. [Locality unknown.] 



Misiones. December 20, 1910. One female. 



We have followed Kirby^^ i^ using this name for the present species. 

 Information with our specimen is to the effect that the species is very 

 uncommon. 



The localities from which the form is known are Peru, Surinam, 

 Brazil, and the Misiones, 



Anaulacomera argentina n. sp. 



Type: cf ; Misiones, Argentina. January 1, 1910. (P. Jor- 

 gensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,225.] 



Closely allied to A. laticauda Brunner from Mexico and Central 

 America, but differing in the angularly emarginate subgenital plate 

 of the male, the longer and less arcuate cerci of the same sex, the 

 slenderer ovipositor of the female, the less compressed pronotum of 

 both sexes, and the broader tympanum of the male. 



Size medium; form moderately compressed. Head with the 

 occiput slightly declivent to the fastigium; fastigium broad at the 

 base, strongly constricted mesad, distad moderately bulbous, deeply 

 sulcate on the base and the constricted median portion, the sulcus 

 represented for some distance on the adjacent portion of the occiput 

 by a shallower sulcus, lateral margins of the fastigium elevated mesad 

 and proximad, strongly diverging proximad; fastigium of the front 

 very broad, touching that of the vertex, their contiguous margins 

 subtruncate, the cephalic portions of both subdeplanate; eyes 



^ Syn. Catal. Orth., U, p. 458. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



broad-ovoid, very prominent; antennae reaching to the tips of 

 the wings. Pronotum with the dorsum flattened, the greatest 

 caudal width of the same contained about one and one-half 

 times in its length; cephalic margin of the disk sinuato-truncate, 

 caudal margin moderately arcuate, lateral angles rounded but quite 

 apparent, middle of disk with an impressed U-shaped figure which is 

 connected with the caudal margin by a very faint median sulcus; 

 lateral lobes with the greatest depth subequal to the greatest length, 

 cephalic margin gently arcuato-emarginate, ventral and caudal 

 margin regularly and broadly arcuate, humeral sinus rectangularly 

 incised. Tegmina about one and one-half times the length of the 

 body, regularly lanceolate, the greatest width contained slightly more 

 than five times in the length, apex well rounded; pattern of the 

 tegminal cells similar to that found in many of the other species of 



Fig. 29. — Anaulacomera argenlina n. sp. Fig. 30. — Anaulacomera argentina 

 Dorsal outline of apex of abdomen n. sp. Outline of ovipositor, 



of type. (X3.) (X3.) 



the genus; median vein diverging two-fifths the distance from the 

 base of the tegmen, furcate, reaching the sutural margin very shortly 

 before the apex; tympanum with the greatest width contained one 

 and one-half times in the length of the same, stridulating vein slightly 

 arcuato-oblique, sutural margin broadly rounded at the apex of the 

 same vein. Wings with the exposed portion surpassing the tips of 

 the tegmina by about the length of the head and pronotum. Cephalic 

 and median femora unarmed on the dorsal margin, tympani of the 

 cephalic tibiae exposed. Caudal femora about two-thirds the length 

 of the tegmina, moderately inflated proximad, ventral margins armed 

 with one (internal) or two (external) spines distad; caudal tibiae 

 distinctly surpassing the femora in length. Disto-dorsal abdominal 

 segment with the distal margin arcuato-emarginate mesad, the 

 median portion of the segment with a broad longitudinal sulcus; 

 supra-anal plate acute-trigonal; cerci elongate, tapering, moderately 

 curved mesad, the apex slightly hooked and faintly enlarged, covered 

 with erect hairs ; subgenital plate with the median portion somewhat 

 produced, sharply narrowing, the distal extremity deeply V-emargi- 

 nate, no styles present. 



General color of the abdomen maize yellow, passing into dull 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



chrome yellow on the head and to pale olive yellow on the pronotum. 

 Tegmina and exposed portion of the wings very pale bice green, the 

 femora of the general abdominal color passing into pale apple green 

 on the tibiae. Eyes walnut brown. Tympanum of the tegmina 

 washed with ferruginous with a dot of seal brown at the base and 

 another at the apex. Dorsal part of the tympanal inflation of the 

 ■cephalic tibiae marked with ferruginous. 



Allotype: 9 ; Misiones, Argentina. April 24, 1909. (P. Jor- 

 gensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



The following characters are chiefly those of difference from 

 the opposite sex: 



Tegmina about one and one-third times the body length; median 

 vein diverging but slightly proximad of the middle of the tegmen. 

 Ovipositor slightly more than twice the length of the pronotum, 

 gently arcuate, very broad, the greatest width contained three and 

 one-half times in the length of the same, dorsal margin almost 

 straight, ventral margin very faintly crenulate distad; subgenital 

 plate subtrans verse. 



Color as in the male, but the base of the tegmina yellowish (possibly 

 by discoloration) and the dorsum and lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 iinely sprinkled with points of ferruginous. 



Measurements. 



Type Allotype 



(male). (female). 



Length of body 15.5 mm. 16.2 mm. 



Length of pronotum 3.8 " 3.8 



Length of tegmen 26.5 " 22.5 



Greatest width of tegmen 5. " 4.3 



Length of caudal femur 15.5 " 15. 



Length of ovipositor 7.8 



The typical pair are all we have seen of the species. 



jAnaulacomera dama n. sp. 



Type: d^ ; Misiones, Argentina. January, 1911. (P. Jorgensen.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,226.] 



Allied to A. cornucervi Brunner from Central Peru, having similar 

 very peculiar cerviform cerci, but differing in the smaller general size 

 .and in the cerci having the proximal fork non-spiniform, but expanded 

 .and moderately palmate, while the distal extremity of the cercus is 

 decidedly palmate, trifid, and incurved. 



Size small ; form moderately compressed. Head with the fastigium 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May^ 



of the vertex very similar to that of A. argentina, but with the bulbous^ 

 extremity less inflated and the median sulcation not continued over 

 the vertex; frontal fastigium no wider than the fastigium of the 

 vertex, the lateral margins subparallel, the extremity closely pressed 

 against the fastigium of the vertex; eyes similar to those of argentina; 

 antennae surpassing the tips of the wings by nearly the length of the 

 tegmina. Pronotum more compressed than in argentina; dorsum 

 subequal in width, the greatest width contained one and two-thirds 

 times in the length of the same ; lateral angles distinct, but narrowly 

 rounded; cephalic margin moderately arcuate emarginate, caudal 

 margin gently arcuate, middle of the disk with a V-shaped impressed 

 figure ; lateral lobes with the greatest length slightly greater than the 

 depth, cephalic margin arcuato-emarginate, ventral margin gently 



Fig. 31. — Anaulacomera dama n. sp. Fig. 32. — Anaulacomera dama n. sp. 

 Lateral outline of apex of abdomen Dorsal outline of apex of abdomen 



of type. (X3.) of type. (X3.) 



arcuate, passing by a little indicated and rounded angle into the 

 oblique arcuate caudal margin, humeral sinus acutely incised. Teg- 

 mina nearly half again as long as the body, general form and vein 

 disposition similar to the type found in argentina, tympanum shorter 

 and broader than argentina, the greatest width contained less than 

 one and one-half times in the length, margin considerably though 

 roundly projecting at the extremity of the stridulating vein. Wings 

 with the exposed portion surpassing the tegmina by about the length, 

 of the pronotum. Disto-dorsal abdominal segment with the distal 

 margin truncato-emarginate, strongly emarginate laterad dorsad of 

 the cerci; cerci cerviform, slightly longer than the dorsum of prono- 

 tum, when seen from the dorsum strongly arcuate laterad, incurving, 

 at the tips which are subcontiguous, when seen from the side there is 

 seen to be a proximal fork diverging ventro-mesad, with its extremity 

 compressed, lamellate, and bidentate, distad of the middle the cercus 

 becomes palmate with one long distal ''tine" or fork, and dorsad and 

 ventrad of the same are short acute ones of the same character; 

 subgenital plate short, narrowing distad, the distal margin truncate, 

 flanked laterad by short styliform processes. Caudal limbs lacking. 

 General color gamboge yellow on the abdomen, passing into dull 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



sulphur yellow on the pleura, pronotum, and head. Tegmina maize 

 yellow proximad, passing into pale apple green on the distal two- 

 thirds; tympanum with the principal veins lined with burnt sienna; 

 exposed portion of the wings pale apple green. Eyes chocolate. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 13 . 8 mm. 



Length of pronotum 3.2 '' 



Length of tegmen 17 . 3 " 



Greatest width of tegmen 3.4 " 



The type of this remarkable species is unique. 



*Grammadera albida Brunner. 



1878. G[rammaderd\ albida Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 298. 

 [Brazil.] 



Misiones. December 22, 1910. (No. 8.) One female. 

 This species has been recorded from Sapucay, Paraguay (Rehn), 

 in addition to the localities given above. 



Phylloptera ovalifolia BurmeLster. 



1838. Ph[ylloptera] ovalifolia Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, Abth. II, 

 pt. 1, p. 311. [South America.) 



Misiones. March 18 and 22, 1909. Two males. 



This widely distributed species has previously been recorded in 

 Argentina only from Buenos Aires (Serville), while from southern 

 Brazil it has been reported from Theresopolis (Saussure and Pictet), 

 Rio Janeiro (Walker; Brunner), and Santa Catharina (Saussure and 

 Pictet). 



*PhylIoptera spinulosa Brunner. 



1878. Phiylloptera] spinulosa Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 314. 

 [Ypanema, Sao Paulo, Brazil.] 



Misiones. March 15, 1909. One female. 



This specimen has been compared with a pair from Sapucay, 

 Paraguay. The three localities here mentioned are all knoTNoi for 

 the species. 



SubfamUy PSEUDOPHYLLIN^. 



Dasyscelis normalis Brunner. 



1895. Dasyscelis normalis Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophyll., p. 119. 

 [Uruguay; Buenos Aires.] 



Buenos Aires. February 26, 1909. One male. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Majr,, 



*Dasyscelis dilatatus Brunner. 



1895. Dasyscelis dilatatus Brunner, Monogr. der PseudophylL, p. 120. 

 [Theresopolis, Brazil.] 



Misiones. November, 1910. One female. 



This specimen is slightly larger than the original measurements 

 and is very strikingly marked on the pronotum, abdomen, and limbs 

 with seal brown, but otherwise it fully agrees with the description. 



The species is known only from the types and the present specimen. 

 Nannotettix bilineatus n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Misiones, Argentina. December 10, 1910. (P. Jor- 

 gensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,228.] 



Allied to N. guentheri and pallidevittatus Brunner from Sorata, 

 Bolivia, but differing from the former in the paler face, the absence 

 of black from the pronotum, in the broadly ovate instead of lanceolate 

 tegmina, in the fewer femoral spines, the different subgenital plate and 

 shorter caudal femora and ovipositor; from the latter in the non- 

 tuberculate cephalic margin of the pronotum, the fewer femoral 

 spines, the different coloration of the femora and abdomen and the 

 longer tegmina. The striking yellowish postocular lines are sirhilar 



Fig. 33. — Nannotettix bilineatus n. sp. Lateral outline of type. (X H-) 



to those found in pallidevittatus, but the more uniformly colored 

 limbs and abdomen will immediately separate the present species. 



Size medium; form rather elongate. Head with the vertex 

 slightly declivent; fastigium acute, reaching to the margins of the 

 antennal scrobes, margins distinctly elevated dorsad of the ocelli, 

 the apex of the fastigium of the front not in contact with that of the 

 vertex; face gently and roundly retreating; eyes subglobose, slightly 

 directed cephalad, indistinctly flattened laterad; proximal antennal 

 joint elongate, armed disto-laterad with a distinct spine. Pronotum 

 with the length of the disk nearly twice the caudal width of the same ; 

 cephalic margin of the disk arcuato-truncate, caudal margin moder- 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



ately arcuate; transverse sulci two in number, the cephalic placed 

 about the cephalic third, the caudal placed immediately caudad of 

 the middle, margins of the pronotum non-tuberculate; lateral 

 carinae indicated by lines of low tubercles, which gradually converge 

 to the caudal transverse sulcus, then more abruptly diverge to the 

 caudal margin; lateral lobes with the greatest depth contained one 

 and two-thirds times in the length of the lobes, ventral margin slightly 

 sinuato-emarginate caudad, ventro-caudal angle slightly obtuse; 

 surface of the dorsum and the lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 shagreened. Tegmina subequal to the pronotum in length, broad 

 ovate in form, the width two-thirds of the length, the extreme portion 

 of the broadly rounded apex faintly truncate. Supra-anal plate 

 trigonal with a distinct medio-longitudinal impression; cerci brief, 

 acuminate; subgenital plate with the distal margin rectangulate 

 emarginate mesad; ovipositor subequal to the length of the prono- 

 tum and tegmina together, moderately arcuate, tapering, ventral 

 margin serrulato-denticulate on the distal fourth. Cephalic femora 

 very slightly longer than the length of the head and pronotum 

 together, unarmed on the ventro-caudal margin, with three spines 

 distad on the ventro-cephalic margin; cephalic tibiae unarmed dorsad, 

 on the ventral margins with five (caudal) to six (cephalic) spines. 

 Median femora very slightly longer than the cephalic femora, armed 

 on the ventro-cephalic margin with two to three spines, unarmed on 

 the ventro-caudal margin; median tibiae unarmed dorsad, ventro- 

 caudal margin with four to five spines, ventro-cephalic margins with 

 five to seven spines. Caudal femora about three times as long as the 

 tegmina, moderately robust, considerably inflated proximad, ventro- 

 cephalic margin with four decided distal spines, ventro-caudal margin 

 unarmed; caudal tibiae slightly exceeding the femora in length, well 

 spined. 



General color raw umber, becoming burnt umber on the dorsum of 

 the head and pronotum, the tegmina walnut brown. Head with the 

 face and portions of the genae straw yellow; a narrow postocular line 

 naples yellow; eyes tawny ochraceous; antennae distad of the second 

 joint tawny. Pronotum with the postocular line of the head con- 

 tinued caudad over the tuberculations of the pronotum as narrow lines 

 of naples yellow. Ovipositor with the margins and apex washed 

 with burnt sienna. Cephalic and median femora ferruginous, 

 becoming darker distad; cephalic and median til)i8e vinaceous-cinna- 

 mon, rather darker proximad. Caudal femora ferruginous, slightly 

 darkened distad, spines yellowish with the tips burnt sienna; caudal 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



tibiae cinnamon-rufous with the tip slightly washed with burnt 

 sienna. • 



Measureme7its. 



Length of body 23 . mm. 



Length of pronotuni 5. " 



Length of tegmen 5 . " 



Length of caudal femur 15.8 " 



Length of ovipositor 9.8 " 



The type of this species is unique. Information with the specimen 

 is to the effect that the species is "common." 



Subfamily CONOCEPHALIN^. 



-*Paroxyprora tenuicaudaKarny. 



1907. Paroxyprora tenuicauda Karny, Abhandl. K. K. Zool.-bot. Gesell. 

 Wien, IV, p. 13. [Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.] 



Misiones. December 29, 1909. One male. 



The present male fully agrees with the individual of that sex from 

 Puerto Bertoni, Paraguay, previously reported by us.^^ 



The three localities here mentioned are all known for the species. 



€aulopsis gracilis Redtenbacher.? 



1891. Caulopsis gracilis Redtenbacher, Verhandl. K. K. Zool.-bot. Gesell. 

 Wien, XLI, p. .377, pi. Ill, fig. 2.5. [Brazil; Buenos Aires; Montevideo; 

 Rosario; Cuba.] 



Misiones. December 12, 1909. One female. 



This specimen is referred to the present species with some doubt, 

 as it is considerably smaller than the measurements of the same sex 

 given by Redtenbacher. The dimensions of our individual are as 

 follows: length of body, 38.5 mm.; length of f astigium, 6 ; length of 

 pronotum, 8.9; length of tegmen, 43.5; length of median femur, 

 7.7; length of caudal femur, 19.5; length of ovipositor, 20.5. Aside 

 from the differences in measurements and the hardly carinate instead 

 of "obtusely" carinate venter of the fastigium, our specimen agrees 

 with the original description. 



* Neoconocephalus muticus iRedtenbacher). 



1891. Conocephalus muticus Redtenbacher, ibid., XLI, p. 393. [Cuba; St. 

 Vincent, Lesser Antilles.) 



IMisiones. March 5, 1910. (No. 3.) One female. 



This specimen very satisfactorily answers the description of the 

 species, previously known only from localities in the West Indies, 

 Central America and northern South America. 



« Entom. News, XXII, p. 254. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 375 



*Neooonocephalus redtenbacheri Kamy. 



1907. Neoconncephalus redtenbacheri Karny, Abhandl. K. K. Zool.-bot. 

 GeseU. Wien, IV, p. 32. [Rio Grande do Sul, BrazU.] 



Tucuman, Prov. of Tucuman. March 16, 1911. One male, two 

 females. 



These specimens agree fully with the original description of the 

 species. The male and one female are in a green phase, while the 

 other female is in a brown phase very closely resembling N. obscurel- 

 lus, from which it can be separated by the narrower fastigium. 



The type locality and Tucuman are the only points from which the 

 species has been recorded. 



* Neooonocephalus saturatus (Griffini). 



1891. Conocephalus saturatus Griffini, Miscell. Entom., VII, p. 5. [Based 

 on Conocephalus infuscatus Redtenbacher (not of Scudder); Medellin; 

 St. Vincent, Lesser Antilles; Cuba; Venezuela; Surinam; Cayenne; 

 Brazil; Rio Grande and Theresopolis, Brazil.] 



Buenos Aires. January 14, 1909. One male. 



Misiones. March 16, 1911. One male. 



Neoconocephalus macropterus (Redtenbacher). 



1891. Conocephalus macropterus Redtenbacher, Verhandl. K. K. Zool.-bot. 

 GeseU. Wien, XLI, p. 402. [Mexico; Martinique; St. Vincent, Lesser 

 Antilles; Cuba; San Francisco and Pernambuco, Brazil; Peru; Buenos 



Aires.] 



Posadas, Misiones. Elev. 80 meters. March 6, 1909. One 

 female. 



This specimen has been compared with individuals from Rosario, 

 Argentina, Mexico, and the West Indies. 



*Agraecia maculata Redtenbacher. 



1891. Agraecia maculata Redtenbacher, ibid., XLI, p. 455, pi. IV, fig. 63. 

 [Theresopolis, Brazil.] 



Misiones. November 12, 1909. One male. 



This specimen has been compared with individuals from Sapucay, 



Paraguay. 



Conocephalus longipes (Redtenbacher). 



1891. Xiphidium longipes Redtenbacher, ibid., XLI, p. 505, pi. IV, fig. 81. 

 [Buenos Aires; Montevideo; Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catharina, 

 Brazil; Peru (?).] 



Misiones. March 30 and April 19, 1909. One male, one female. 



Buenos Aires. February 26, 1909; May 3, 1907. One male, one 

 female. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. Janu- 

 ary 11, February 16, and April 7, 1907. Four males. 

 25 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev, 767 meters. April 4 and 9, 



1908. Two males. 



San Ignacio, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 1,235 meters. March 

 15 and 22, April 5, 1908. Five males, six females. 



These specimens have been compared with material from Car- 

 carana, Argentina, and Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, determined by 

 Bruner and Saussiire, respectively. 



* Phlugis Spinipes (Fabricius). 



1775. [Locusta] spinipes Fabricius, Syst. Entom., p. 283. [Brazil.] 

 Misiones. September 1, 1910. (No. 6.) One female. 

 We have followed Kirby^ in using this name for the species in 



place of tener Stal. 



The only previous definite record for the species at all near that 



cited by us is Sao Paulo, Brazil. 



Family GRYLLID^. 

 Subfamily GRYLLOTALPIN.E. 



* Scapteriscus borellii Giglio-Tos. 



1894. S[capteriscus] borellii Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. 

 Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 45, pi. figs. 12 and 15. [Colonia Risso, Rio Apa, 

 Paraguay.] 



Misiones. December, 1910. One male. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 m&ters. Decem- 

 ber 9, 1907. One male. 



These specimens accord fully with the original description and 

 figures. The species is here first recorded from Argentina. 



Subfamily GRYLLIN^. 

 Nemobius longipennis Saussure. 



1874. Nemobius longipennis Saussure, Miss. Scient. Mex., Rech. Zool., VI, 

 p. 383. [Buenos Aires.] 



San Juan, Prov. of San Juan. Elev. 673 meters. January 20, 



1909. One male, six females. 



Pedregal, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 696 meters. December 14, 

 1906. Two females. 



These specimens fully agree with the original description of the 

 species. Previous records are from Paraguay and Asuncion, Sapu- 

 cay^^ and Villa Rica, Paraguay; Santa Rosa, Salta, and San Pablo, 

 Tucuman, Argentina. 



^Synon. Catal. Orth., II, p. 285. 



^ The material recorded by Caudell from Sapucay as N. fasciatus (Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 243) belongs to this species, the two males there recorded 

 having been examined by us. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



*Nemobius rufus Saussure. 



1877. Nemohius rufus Saussure, Mel. Orthopt., V, p. 256. [Brazil.] 



Misiones. December, 1910. One male, one female. 



The present specimens answer the original description very well, 

 except that the last article of the palpi bears no black and the wings 

 are fully developed and caudate. The latter fact shows the species 

 to be dimorphic in wing length. The general appearance of the 

 species is very similar to that of N. longipennis, but rufus can be 

 separated from the latter by having the ovipositor longer, the dorsal 

 margin of the apex of the same serrulate instead of serrate and the 

 disto-dorsal spurs of the caudal tibiae unequal in length instead of 

 equal. 



The species is only known from the type locality and the INIisiones. 



Gryllus argentinus Saussure. 



1874. Gryllus argentinus Saussure, Miss. Scient. Mex., Rech. Zool., VI, 

 p. 399. [Southern Brazil; Argentine Republic and the north of Patagonia; 

 Buenos Aires; Bahia Blanca; Rio Negro of Patagonia.] 



Misiones. December 30, 1910. (Nos. 2 and 3.) Two females. 



Mendoza, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 767 meters. December 20, 

 1907. One male. 



Chacras de Coria, Prov. of Mendoza. Elev. 936 meters. Janu- 

 ary 16, 1908. Two females. 



One Misiones female has the wings caudate, the others having 



them not exceeding the tegmina. A typical female from Buenos 



Aires, received from Saussure, has the wings no longer than the 



tegmina. 



SubfamUy (ECANTHIX.E. 

 (Ecanthus sp. 



Misiones. March 29 and December, 1910. Two males, one 

 female. 



These specimens are too imperfect to be determined with certainty. 



Neoxabea brevipes n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Misiones, Argentina. November 6, 1910. (P. Jor- 

 gensen.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., type No. 5,229.] 



Closely related to N. hipunctata (De Geer), from which it differs in 

 ihe less projecting ventral margins of the lateral lobes of the prono- 

 tum, the shorter limbs, the shorter caudal tarsi and more uniform 

 coloration. One of the more apparent differences is that the inflated 

 proximal portion of the cephalic tibiae is less than half the entire 

 length of the same in hipunctata and a full half that length in brevipes, 

 the whole tibiae also being more robust in the new form. 



Size medium ; form as usual in the genus. Head with the occiput 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



slightly concave; eyes ovoid, rather small, not at all prominent when 



seen from the dorsum; antennae with the node on the proximal joint 



well developed, the tips of the antennae surpassing the tips of the 



tegmina. Pronotum of the general type found in the 



genus, narrow cephalad, regularly and considerably 



expanding caudad, the greatest width contained one 



and one-quarter times in the length of the same, 



F' 34 — A^ - cephalic margin of the disk truncate, caudal margin 



o X ah e a arcuato-sinuate laterad, disk with a pronounced trans- 



hrevipes^n.^ verse sulcus near the caudal margin, immediately 



outline o f cephalad of which is an incomplete circular sulcus, the 



pronotum imperfect portion of which is cephalad; ventral margins 



(X 4.) of the lateral lobes but little projecting, when seen 



from the lateral aspect this margin is slightly emargi- 



nato-sinuate dorsad of the insertion of the limbs, slightly arcuato- 



lobate immediately caudad of the same. Tegmina slightly more 



than twice the length of the head and pronotum together, of the 



general character found in females of this genus ; dorsal field with the 



general pattern of the venation regularly oblique, the areas more 



regular, more numerous and smaller than in N. bipunctata; lateral 



field broad, deeper than the breadth of the dorsal field, reticulations 



more numerous and smaller than in N. bipunctata. Wings projecting 



caudad of the tegmina a distance equal to nearly two-thirds the 



tegminal length. Ovipositor shorter than the combined length of 



Fig. 35. — Neoxabea brevipes n. sp. Out- Fig. 36. — Neoxabea brevipes n. sp. Cau- 

 line of cephalic limb of type. (X 3.) dal tarsus of type. (X 6.) 



the head and pronotum. Cephalic and median limbs very short, 

 the cephalic femora hardly as long as the head; cephalic tibiae very 

 slightly longer than the femora, the inflated area surrounding the 

 tympanum slightly longer than the narrow subequal distal extremity. 

 Median limbs equally short as the cephalic ones. Caudal femora 

 about two-thirds the length of the tegmina, when extended caudad 

 reaching only to the base of the ovipositor, slender; caudal tibiae 

 slightly longer than the femora; caudal tarsi very short when com- 

 pared with those of bipunctata, the metatarsi comparatively shorter, 

 no long than, instead of distinctly longer than, the remaining joints 

 of the tarsi. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



General color of the head, pronotum, dorsum of tegmina, and 

 exposed portion of the wings prout's brown, lateral aspect of the 

 tegmina and the limbs wood brown. Eyes dull ferruginous; antennae 

 dull naples yellow. Several irregular linear touches of seal brown 

 are placed on the dorsal side of the humeral trunk on the distal half of 

 the tegmina, these markings being co-extensive with certain linear 

 cell areas of the same region. Ovipositor obscure burnt sienna with 

 the tips blackish. Femora distinctly sprinkled with points of burnt 

 umber, the tibiae with a few of the same character; the spots on the 

 femora disposed in linear and, as a rule, balanced series. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 17. mm. 



Length of pronotum 3.3 



Length of tegmen 12 .3 



Length of exposed portion of the wing 7.2 " 



Length of caudal femur 7.3 " 



The type of this very interesting species is unique. 



SubfamUy TRIGONIDIIN.^. 

 Thamnoscirtus amoenus (Burmeister). 



1880. PhylloscirUts amoenus Burmeister, Abhandl. Naturfor. GeseU. Halle, 

 XV, p. 18, pi. 1, figs. 8-10. [Mouth of the Riachuelo, Buenos Aires, 

 Argentina.] 



Buenos Aires. February 20, 1909. Three males, one female. 



This striking species is a true Thamnoscirtus, and not a Phylloscir- 

 tus, the head being vertical and not at all horizontal. Saussure has 

 described a very closely related species from Guiana as Thamnoscirtus 

 viridicatus.^^ 



Giglio-Tos has recorded this species from the Province of San Pedro, 

 Paraguay, as ? Thamnoscirtus cicindeloides Gerstaecker,^^ later 

 correcting the determination to Phylloscirtus amcenus.^^ 



SubfamUy ENEOPTERIN^. 

 Diatrypa tuberculata Saussure. 



1874. Diatrypa tuberculata Saussure, Miss. Scient. Me.x., Rech. Zool., VI, 

 p. 479. [Buenos Aires.] 



IMisiones. April 30, 1910. (No. 1.) One male. 



This species has been recorded only from Buenos Aires, the Misiones 

 and Sapucay, Paraguay (Caudell). Our specimen is striped on the 

 pronotum in a similar fashion to the female examined by Caudell. ^^ 



^Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, p. 240. 



" Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 40. 



^Zool. Jahrb., Abth. Syst., VIII, p. 816. 



59 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 243. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



NOTES UPON SOME LOWEK CALIFORNIAN HELICES. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The receipt of some Helices collected on Cerros (Cedros) Island, 

 Lower California, by Mr. H. N. Lowe, has been made the occasion 

 for giving plates illustrating the Micrariontas of Lower California 

 and offering some notes upon the characters, variation, distribution, 

 and type localities of the several forms. Information upon the 

 habitats and stations of several species may be found in an article 

 by Mr. Lowe in the Nautilus for July, 1913. 



The only recent work of an exact nature upon these snails is in. a 

 paper published by Doctor W. H. Dall in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. for 1900, in which several new forms are defined. The fauna 

 stands much in need of investigation by some one who can study the 

 snails on the ground; who will look into the limits and characteristics 

 of the snail colonies, locate them exactly, and keep the snails of 

 different colonies separate. At present we have little knowledge of 

 the association of forms or the range of variation within a colony. 



The first Helices from the Lower Californian coast seem to have 

 been collected by Dr. Hinds, who accompanied Capt. Belcher as 

 surgeon of H. M. S. Sulphur. The Sulphur was engaged in work 

 of survey and exploration along the West Coast in 1839, and oppor- 

 tunity for land collecting was had at San Diego and various points 

 northward, San Quintin, Cerros Island, Turtle (San Bartolome) 

 Bay, and Magdalena Bay. Two species collected by Hinds were 

 described by Pfeiffer in 1845, Helix levis and H. areolata, both re- 

 ported, in the original descriptions, as from "California," whether 

 Lower or Upper not specified ; moreover, at the time of the Sulphur 

 voyage the differentiation of the Californias seemed a small matter 

 to Europeans, both being equally savage and remote. 



During 1846 the Herald and Pandora surveyed parts of the coast — 

 Victoria, Esquimalt Harbor, Port Discovery, Port Townsend, San 

 Francisco Bay, San Nicolas, S. Clemente, San Diego Bay, Los 

 Coronados, San Quintin, Cerros Island, Magdalena Bay.^ A number 



^Narrative of the Voyage of H. M. S. Herald during the years 1845-51, by 

 Berthold Seemann, 1853. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



of West Coast shells were collected, but unfortunatelj^ the localities 

 were badly mixed up, as in the Sulphur shells. 



Good accounts of the explorations of Veatch, Gabb, Scammon, and 

 others of that period together with much historical and other infor- 

 mation concerning the peninsula may be found in a book issued by 

 the Lower California Company, entitled, "Lower California: Its 

 Geography and Characteristics," New York, 1868. The most exten- 

 sive recent reports by scientific observers are those published by the 

 California Academy of Sciences. These deal chiefly with the Cape 

 region, which differs widely from the peninsula further north by reason 

 of its far greater rainfall. 



Helicoid and Bulimoid landsnails living in exposed places usually 

 become more variegated than the related forms from sheltered or 

 shaded places. When exposed to the sun, the ground color or the 

 whole shell becomes opaque white, an adaptation to exclude light, 

 which would shine through a brown, corneous, or yellowish shell, 

 probably to the detriment of the snail. Compare Cerion, Hemi- 

 trochus, Bulimulus schiedeanus, Leucochroa, etc. Among snails living 

 in drj^, sunny places, there is also very often a tendency to multiply 

 color-bands, in snails derived from stocks with one or few bands, 

 as in Euparypha, Hemitrochus, Plecto stylus, etc. This may possibly 

 be protective, as a variegated shell is less conspicuous on a bush or 

 weed than a one-colored shell. 



The enhanced color development and variabilitj^ of snails living 

 on trees or other plants lead to the formation of color varieties from 

 diverse variations in different colonies. Where the topographic 

 and other environmental conditions favor isolation of colonies, 

 permanent races or species result, as among the Partulce and Achati- 

 nellce. When the colonies occasionally mingle by changing condi- 

 tions of vegetation, etc., we have polymorphic hybrid races — 

 colonies where great individual diversity of pattern or form are seen. 



Lower California, exclusive of the Cape region, is probably an area 

 of increasing aridity, like southern Arizona and Sonora, so that there 

 is now a strong tendency towards restriction and consequent isolation 

 of the snail colonies. The rather wide distribution of some of the 

 species and the polymorphic coloration of many colonies leads us to 

 believe that conditions formerly were much more favorable to migra- 

 tion and mingling of land snails. Subsidence has also played a part 

 in isolating the snails of the small islands along the coast. That the 

 changes have often been unfavorable is shown by the dwarfed size of 

 many races, as on San Geronimo, Natividad, and Asuncion Islands. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



The irregular apertural thickening, lumps, and uneven "teeth" of 

 some forms of M. levis and others show the unfavorable action of 

 extreme aridity.^ 



The apparent absence of Helicidse on the comparatively well- 

 watered southern end of the peninsula is an anomaly. I cannot 

 help thinking that further search will bring some Helices to light. 

 It is a region of fine Bulimuli. 



In the northeastern part of the peninsula and on the Coronado 

 Islands, Micrarionta stearnsiana Gabb is found.^ Farther down and 

 inland the closely related M. orcutti Dall occurs. This seems to be 

 constant in its divergence from stearnsiana in the large lot I have 

 seen. Far off shore on Guadalupe Island is the small M. guadalu- 

 piana Dall, a perfectly distinct species of the typical group of Micra- 

 rionta. 



On the sierra running down the peninsula near the eastern border 

 there are several Sonorella-Wke species, such as Helix lohrii Gabb, 

 unknown anatomically, but probably belonging to the desert group 

 of Micrarionta characteristic of southwestern Arizona and south- 

 eastern California. 



Micrarionta consists of three rather sharply differentiated groups 

 or sections: (1) Micrarionta typical, small, compact shells with the 

 lip strongly reflexed, insular in distribution, M. rujicincta, gabhi, 

 facta, guadalupiana. (2) Section Eremarionta for M. desertorum 

 P. & F., includes also M. hutsoni Clapp and probably all the Cali- 

 fornian and Lower Californian species which have been referred to 

 Sonorella. The lip is expanded, shell smooth. (3) Section Xerarionta 

 for the capacious forms with the lip not expanded or but slightly so, 

 the axis perforate or closed, the shell generally variegated, many- 

 banded. M. veatchii may be taken as the type of this group, which 

 extends from the Channel Islands of California to Magdalena Bay, 

 on the islands and adjacent shore. 



Micrarionta pandoras (Forbes). PI. XV, figs. 17 to 23. 



Helix pandorce Forbes, P. Z. S., 1850, p. 55, pi. 9, f. 3 a, b. Binney, Land 



and Fresh-water Shells of N. A. I, p. 179. 

 Epiphragmophora pandorce (Forbes), Dall, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 101. 

 Helix damascenus Gould, Proc. Boston Soc. N. H., VI, p. 11, 1856; Otia 



Conch, p. 219. 

 Epiphragmophora pandorce bonitosensis Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1898, p. 70, 



pi. 1. figs. 4, 5 (genitalia). 



This species was collected by H. M. S. Herald or Pandora, the 



2 Cf. DaU, "On Insular Land Snail Faunas. " 



3 This has been shown by Mr. G. H. Clapp to differ specifically from M. kelletti 

 of the Channel Islands. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383^ 



locality uncertain. On p. 53 of Forbes' article, he states that "Helix 

 kellettii and pandorce, both new, are probably from the same country 

 [i.e., neighborhood of the Columbia River], though the box in which 

 they were contained was marked Santa Barbara. " On p. 55 he saj'^s, 

 "collected near the Straits of Juan del Fuaco [Fuca]."'^ 



The Santa Barbara Island Helix of this type is tnjoni Newc. H. 

 pandorce must have come from some southern locality. Since speci- 

 mens exactly resembling Forbes' figure were taken by Anthony and 

 others on San Benito Island, off the north end of Cerros Island, that 

 place may for the present be taken as the type locality, as no other 

 place has yet afforded shells agreeing so well with Forbes' figures. 



San Benito, or "Los Benitos," is west of the north end of Cerros 

 Island and consists of two or three small and very barren islets. 

 The name has also been spelled "San Bonito" (Captain C. M. 

 Scammon) . 



Though we are considering Los Benitos the type locality of H. 

 pandorce, it must be said that we have no definite information of 

 where the original lot was taken. The Herald touched Cerros Island, 

 and left the Pandora behind to complete the survey. No further 

 report of the movements of the Pandora is given in the narrative, 

 but it is not unlikely that S. Benito was visited in the course of the 

 survey. The fact that Forbes named the species for the Pandora 

 may be taken, in the absence of any information to the contrary, as 

 some indication that it was obtained by members of the Pandora's 

 surveying party. 



The locality "Santa Barbara, on Margarita Bay, Lower California, 

 Forbes," quoted by Dall, I am unable to confirm, as I can find no 

 place or bay so named on the coast of Lower California, on maps 

 acces.sible to me. 



Dall has noted that this small species "varies from white to dark 

 gray above, and below may be white or banded with ashy-gray. 

 The nucleus is, however, invariably of a livid purplish color, and the 

 surface is dull and conspicuously striate." It is sometimes pure 

 white (pi. XV, fig. 23), or has a few diffuse reddish-purple bands 

 on the last whorl (pi. XV, figs. 21, 22), the apex whitish or dark 

 (fig. 22 photographed abnormally dark). 



The typical form (pi. XV, figs. 17, 18, 19, 20) is dull purplish above 

 and banded below the periphery on a creamy ground, the apex purple 



* The Spanish Captain de Fuca has recently been canonized by a Cahforniaa 

 conchologist, Bull. S. Cal. Acad. Sci., X, p. 54, 1911. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



or reddish. The lip is very slightly expanded, narrowly white- 

 bordered within, and the columellar margin concave with no trace of 

 a tooth. The embryonic whorl, when unworn, has radial wrinkles 

 as in veatchii; the spire is not granular, and the last whorl shows 

 spiral incised lines. Alt. 15, diam. 18 mm., 4f whorls. It was this 

 form which I dissected, under the name of "E. p. honitosensis." 



M. pandorw is anatomically similar to veatchii on a smaller scale. 

 It belongs, I think, nearer veatchii than to any other species. As in 

 other races of these small arid islands, pandorce is conspicuously 

 reduced in size, probably through the continuous influence of short 

 active and long dormant periods. 



The specimens figured are from S. Benito Island, collected by 

 Anthony and Hemphill. 



Micrarionta veatchii ('Newc' Tryon). Plate XV, figs. 1 to 7 (varieties figs. 8 to 16). 



Arionta veitcMi [error for veatchii] Newcomb, Tryon, American Journal of 

 Conchology, II, p. 316, pi. 22 (5), fig. 19, 1866. Ill, p. 162, 1867. 



Helix veatchii Stearns, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., Ill, p. 328, 1867. 



Helix areolata W. G. Binney, Land and Fresh-water Shells of N. A., I, p. 177, 

 fig. 311, two figures in the middle. 



A fine species, known by its large size, turbinate, elevated shape 

 (which, however, is variable), and the coloration, somewhat like 

 Helix aspersa, but also very variable; the embryonic shell when 

 unworn is finely irregularly wrinkled radially. There is never any 

 trace of a columellar tooth. It was described from Cerros Island, 

 where Veatch collected it in 1859, and the typical form at least is 

 confined to that place. 



In specimens collected at the north end of Cerros Island by Mr. 

 H. N. Lowe in 1912 (pi. XV, figs. 2, 3), the foot and sole are pale 

 gray, back brownish-gray, paler towards the shell, near the edge 

 yellowish -gray, under a lens seen to be closely peppered with yellow 

 dots on a dark gray ground. A specimen of the same lot having the 

 shell light colored (pi. XV, fig. 1) has the animal gray-brown through- 

 out, a little darker on the back. The tail is depressed, back with 

 the usual pair of grooves. In walking, the muscular waves extend 

 entirely across the sole, and are about 5 mm. apart, more separated 

 towards the tail. Foot about 60 mm. long. The shell in this lot 

 (pi. XV, figs. 1, 2, 3) varies notably in degree of elevation and in 

 color. The ground is pink-white; some shells are boldly marked 

 with blackish-chocolate bands, as many as eleven in fig. 3. Others 

 have the shoulder band well developed, several others weakly traced, 

 fig. 2. In others, all the bands present are very weak, fig. 1 ; or again, 

 the shoulder band alone is indicated by an interrupted dark fillet. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



•Granulation is weakly developed on the second and third whorls, 

 and incised spiral lines are well developed on the last whorl. 



The type lot of veatchii consists of smaller shells, pi. XV, figs. 6, 7, 

 in which the bands number 9 or 10, are brown or blackish and more 

 or less speckled. Fine, distinct granulation (as in levis) may be seen 

 •on the second and third whorls. The incised spirals of the last whorl 

 are weak and much interrupted. The lip is slightly expanded, the 

 •callus within making it appear more expanded than it really is. 

 This feature is rather poorly shown in the figures because of the 

 •darkness of the interiors in the photographs. In M. levis there is 

 little or no expansion of the lip. 



The largest individual seen measures, alt. 26|, diam. 28| mm. 

 It was collected by Hemphill (pi. XV, fig. 5). The highest in a 

 series sent by Mr. H. N. Lowe measures, alt. 2Q^, diam. 25| mm.j 

 with 6^ whorls (fig. 2) ; and the lowest, in the same lot, is, alt. 24^, 

 diam. 28 mm., 5f whorls (fig. 1). The types were smaller, about 

 23 X 23 mm. Two of the type lot are figured, pi. XV, figs. 6, 7. In 

 these the spiral incised lines are less developed than in the larger 

 forms. The lip is less broadly expanded in many specimens, as in 

 fig. 4, collected by Gabb. 



Besides the typical elevated form already noticed, there are several 

 more or less divergent forms found on Cerros Island. I have referred 

 to these by number, as their status cannot be discussed intelligently 

 until careful field work locates the colonies and gives material for a 

 study of the variations in each. 



(1) M. veatchii leucanthea Dall, from the eastern side of Cerros 

 Island (pi. XV, fig. 10, a cotype, U. S. Nat. Mus. No. 107,627) is 

 exactly like the lower forms of veatchii in shape of the shell and the 

 rather broadly expanded lip. It differs by the absence of distinct 

 bands on the pink-white surface and the more distinct granulation 

 of the entire upper surface. The shell figured measures, alt. 23, 

 diam. 26 mm., with 5| whorls. 



(2) Shells collected on Cerros Island by Hemphill, what part of 

 the island not stated, resemble leucanthea in shape and sculpture, but 

 differ in having the lip expansion very narrow. In one lot (pi. XV, 

 figs. 15, 16) the fleshy-brown bands vary from weak and "curdled" 

 (like the traces of a band in leucanthea) to moderately strong. 



(3) In another lot (pi. XV, figs. 13, 14) the last whorl has a pale 

 brown tint; there are no bands whatever, but the surface is strewn 

 with purplish-gray dots, translucent by transmitted light. The 

 lip expands very narrowly. 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 'May, 



(4) Natividad Island, off the south end of Cerros. A shell col- 

 lected by Anthony and sent me alive by Dr. Dall (pi. XV, fig. 12) is 

 banded and streaked profusely with purplish-brown. The embryo 

 is distinctly wrinkled and the inner whorls following are somewhat 

 granulated; lip narrow. Alt. 21, diam. 23.8 mm., with 5| whorls. 

 The genitalia of this individual were figured by me as "areolata" in 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1898, pi. 1, figs. 6, 7. It certainly has nothing 

 to do with the real areolata, but belongs to the veatchii group of forms. 



(5) Turtle Bay, collected by Hemphill (pi. XV, fig. 9), white or 

 pink-white, immaculate or with a few fleshy dots. Embryonic 

 whorl wrinkled, the rest of the upper surface granulated more or 

 less, lip very narrow. Resembles varieties (2) and (3), except in 

 color. 



(6) Turtle Bay, Hemphill (pi. XV, fig. 8). The white or pale 

 embryonic whorl is nearly smooth (in 8 adult shells examined, no 

 young ones seen); granulation appears weakly on the inner whorls, 

 not on the last one or two. Lip expansion is narrow. The shell is 

 compactly coiled. Bands speckled with white, either numerous, as 

 in fig. 8, or reduced in number and intensity (as in fig. 15). Alt. 20, 

 diam. 23 mm., with 5| whorls. This lot was sent out by Hemphill 

 as "H. areolata var." 



(7) Turtle Bay (pi. XV, fig. 11). Same as No. 6, but white with 

 the coloring of leucanthea, plus some scattered fleshy dots. 



Whether all of the Turtle Bay lots were from one colony or from 

 several is not known. Mr. Hemphill sorted out his Helices into 

 color forms, thereby destroying all evidence as to the composition of 

 the colonies. 



M. veatchii was named in honor of John A. Veatch, who surveyed 

 Cerros Island in search of copper and other minerals in June, July, 

 and August, 1859. By an error or oversight the name was spelled 

 "veitchii" in the original account. 



Micrarionta veatchii canescens (Adams and Reeve). Text fig. 1. 



A series collected by Mr. H. N. Lowe at South Bay, Cerros Island, 

 agrees well with the figures and description of Helix canescens,^ 



5 The original description follows: 



"Helix canescens. Shell globose, nearly covered perforate, opaque white, 

 ornamented with oblique streaks and several interrupted blackish concentric 

 lines and a conspicuous central band, whorls 5, the last rotund-inflated. Aperture 

 lunate-rotund, peristome thickened within, callous in the columellar margin. 

 Hab. Africa. A white globose shell with simple lip banded and minutely sprinkled 

 with black. " (Adams and Reeve, in Zoology of the Voyaqe of H. M. S. Samarana, 

 p. 62, pi. 16, fig. 10, 1848.) 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



which was described with the indefinite locality '' Africa" and has 

 not been recognized by subsequent authors, although Tryon has 

 called attention to its resemblance to veatchii, etc. Part of the 

 specimens (fig. 1, a, h, c) have a columellar tooth; some, as fig. 1,6, 

 have the coloration of Adams and Reeve's type figure in the Zoology 

 of the Samarang, pi. XVI, fig. 10. Others, fig. 1, a, have the pattern 

 shown by Reeve in the Conchologia Iconica. Still other examples 

 «how but faint traces of dark markings, fig. 1, c. With these there 

 were a few shells generally similai', but without the columellar tooth, 

 fig. 1, d, which by themselves would be referred to M. veatchii var. 

 No. 7, or with the tooth very weak, intergrading with the distinctly 

 dentate form. 



Fig. 1. — Micrarionta v. canescens (A. & R.), South Bay, Cerros Island. 



The Samarang surveyed from Japan to Borneo, going and return- 

 ing by the Cape route. They did not reach American shores, and 

 touched Africa only at the Cape, where no such species as H. 

 canescens is found. It seems to be one of several species without 

 definite locality which Reeve inserted. Captain Belcher who com- 

 manded the Samarang had previously explored Cerros Island in the 

 ■Sulphur, and probably he added H. canescens to the Samarang shells 

 from his former collection. 



By its columellar tooth M. canescens has affinity to M. levis. 

 Whether it will eventually be united to veatchii or to levis remains 

 to be decided, but it seems deserving of at least subspecific rank. 



Micrarionta levis (Pfeiffer). PI. XVI, figs. 48 to 52, 42 to 45. 



Helix levis Pfr., Zeitschrift fur Malakozoologie, II, 1845, p. 152; Syst. Conchyl. 

 Cabinet, p. 249, pi. 36, fig. 17, type, fig. 16, var. 



Original description. — "Shell perforate, globose, thin, smooth, 

 obliquely striate, obsoletely granulate, whitish, variously ornamented 

 with series of dots or pellucid corneous bands. Spire short, rather 

 acute. Whorls 5, but slightly convex, the last inflated. Aperture 

 rotund-lunar, colored like the outside or fulvous within; peristome 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May^ 



acute, somewhat labiate within, the columellar margin dilated above^ 

 vaultingly reflexed, nearly covering the perforation. Alt. 13, diam. 

 46 [typographical error for 16] mm. Variety: with a sharplj^ defined, 

 lengthened, tooth-like tubercle on the lower margin near the colu- 

 mella (fig. 16)." 



Pfeiffer's figure of the type, pi. XVI, fig. 51, and of the variety 

 pi. XVI, fig. 52, are copied photographically. 



This is a rather small species (diam. 17 to 20 mm.), compactly 

 coiled, rather solid though generally somewhat thin, opaque white 

 or very light brown, encircled with many blackish lines and narrow 

 bands, which are more or less interrupted or speckled with white. 

 The embryonic whorl is usually brown, rarely whitish. The surface 

 of several post-embryonic whorls is minutely granulated. The last 

 whorl is not distinctly striated spirally. Lip hardly expanded,, 

 narrowly thickened within, at the columella it is dilated, and white- 

 calloused within, the callus often ending abruptly below, or in form 

 of a small tooth. Whorls 5 in small, up to 5| in large individuals. 



Specimens in the Academy are from San Rosario (Orcutt!); San 

 Geronimo Island, fossil only (H. N. Lowe!); Lagoon Heads, Cerros 

 Island, and Turtle Bay (H. Hemphill!); Asuncion Island, fossil only 

 (Stearns). Also reported by Dall from Rosalia Bay, between the 

 second and third localities above. 



Pfeiffer records that this species was taken by Hinds in "Cali- 

 fornia." Hinds, on H. M. S. Sulphur, Capt. Belcher, visited Cali- 

 fornia and Lower California, stopping October 28, 1839, at Turtle 

 Bay, which is another name for S. Bartolome Bay, or Port, a good 

 harbor a short distance below the projection of the peninsula below 

 Cerros Island. As Hemphill found the species here in some abun- 

 dance, I propose to select Port San Bartolome as the t3^pe locality. 

 The Sulphur landed a party at this place to make observations for 

 position. The geological features and marine shells are mentioned 

 in Captain Beechey's narrative (Vol. I, p. 330), and I think it almost 

 certain that Hinds, who was a good collector and conchologist^ 

 picked up the Helix levis here. 



Small specimens, such as pi. XVI, fig. 45, and others of the same 

 lot agree perfectly with Pfeiffer's description and his type figure. 

 Others from Turtle Bay, such as figs. 42, 43, are larger, more elabo- 

 rately decorated, and show more of a columellar tooth. 



Shells from San Rosario, Cerros Island (fig. 44), and Lagoon Heads, 

 are practically identical with those from Turtle Bay. All of these 

 places except Cerros Island are on the mainland. Other localities. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



have varying forms, which for the present I have designated by 

 numbers, as follows: 



(1) Asuncion Island, not far below Turtle Bay, has a somewhat 

 differing race (pi. XVI, fig. 48). The bands, translucent instead of 

 brown, are usually fewer and broader — five or six, or sometimes as 

 many as ten. Granulation indistinct or obsolete. Diam. 16 to 

 19 mm. All the specimens seen from this tiny, barren islet were 

 dug out of fine sand. It probably occurs only fossil. It is much 

 like Pfeiffer's figures of levis, but the granulation is scarcely visible^ 



(2) Var. crassula Dall (pi. XV, fig. 24) from Natividad Island 

 (south of Cerros) is like the preceding in having few translucent 

 bands, about 6 in the cotype figured. It is somewhat heavier than 

 levis of equal size, and is a little more elevated. No granulation is 

 now visible on the corroded surface. The columellar callus is heavy 

 and prominent. Alt. 15, diam. 17 mm., with nearly oh whorls 

 {levis of the same diameter has f of a whorl less). Fossil. 



(3) The variety from San Geronimo Island (pi. XVI, figs. 49, 50,. 

 coll. by H. N. Lowe) resembles crassula in contour and banding. 

 It is not quite so heavy, has a half whorl less, and is well enough 

 preserved to show traces of granulation on the spire in some examples. 

 It was found fossil. Specimens measure: 



Alt. 



It appears that on these small, barren islets the levis stock has 

 deteriorated in size, often becoming more globose, and finally has died 

 out. The weak sculpture and usually small number of bands (in 

 comparison with Turtle Bay levis) are probably ancestral characters^ 

 preserved in these isolated colonies. So far as I know, these dimin- 

 ished races are extinct. The bands of these helices, brown or blackisk 

 in life, become translucent gray in long dead or fossil specimens. 



(4) M. levis globosa n. subsp. PL XVI, figs. 46, 47. The shell 

 is glohose-conic, higher than levis, with very little of the granulation 

 of that species, solid, glossy, multilineate with brown on a white 

 ground, or sometimes bluish-white without bands. Columella strongly- 

 toothed. Alt. 20.3, diam. 22.3 mm., 5^ whorls; or higher, alt. and 

 diam. 22 mm. Cerros Island, living. Probably Binney's two out- 

 side figures 311, in Land and Fresh-water Shells, I, p. 177, represent 

 this race. 




•390 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



Micrarionta areolata ('Sowb.' Pfr.). PI. XVI, figs. 25 to 33. 



Helix areolata Sowb. ms., Pfr. Zeitschr. f. Malak., II, p. 154, 184.5; in Philippi, 

 Abbildungen, etc., II, p. 184, pi. 9, f. 4; Conchylien Cabinet, p. 248, pi. 36, 

 f. 10-13. Crosse and Fischer, Miss. Sci. Mex., Moll., p. 262, pi. 11, f. 4. 



Epiphragmophora areolata (Sowerby) Dall, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 100. 



Helix areolata was described by Pfeiffer from specimens brought 

 liome by Hinds, with no more informing locaUty than ''California." 

 In a later publication he adds " on the Columbia River in California. " 

 Several places visited by Hinds on the Sulphur along the coast allow 

 a wide range of choice for the type locality: San Quintin Bay, 

 Cerros Island (where no shells seem to have been collected by Hinds) , 

 Turtle (Bartolome) Bay, and Magdalena Bay, where several days 

 were spent. 



Fig. 2. — a, b, c, type of Helix areolata; d, H. areolata, variety, 

 graphically from the Conchylien Cabinet. 



Copied photo- 



Pfeiffer described it as having the columella unidentate," diam. maj. 

 ^6, min. 23, alt. 18 mm.^ 



The specimen measured, presumably considered the type, was 

 figured by Philippi (Abbildungen, etc.) and again in the Conchylien 

 Cabinet, pi. XXXVl, figs. 10-12. These figures are copied photo- 

 graphically in text-figure 2 a, b, c. 



Reeve and Crosse have figured specimens of the tessellated Magda- 

 tena Bay form, and some in the Academy Museum, received from 

 Sowerby many years ago (pi. XVI, fig. 4) are of the same rather 

 •depressed race, and agree well with Pfeiffer's figures, though neither 



6 Pfeiffer later qualified this by the expression "pkrumque unidentato," and 

 in the Conchylien Cabinet he says the columella of the type is "iindeutlich ein- 

 zdhnig," and recognizes two varieties: "Variety 1. Smaller, more globose; 

 umbilical perforation almost closed; columellar tooth distinct and strong, fig. 13. 

 Variety 2. With the columellar tooth entirely wanting." 



' Pfeiffer measured the altitude of HeHces along a line parallel to the axis of 

 the shell, and not to the base of the lip, as is now done. By the modern system 

 it would be 22 mm. high. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



of them is fully mature. I think, therefore, that "Magdalena Bay" 

 should undoubtedly be taken as the type locahty of H. areolata. 

 Further information is needed to determine the exact place in that 

 neighborhood where shells agreeing with Pfeiffer's figures 10-12 

 (my text-fig. 2) are found, whether on the mainland or on Margarita 

 Island. None of the shells before me are exactly localized. They 

 bear the general locality "Magdalena Bay." It is evident from the 

 five lots seen that different colonies vary in size, elevation, and degree 

 of maculation.* Pfeiffer's type and the specimens received from 

 Sowerby are more depressed than most other lots. 



The more northern localities cited for areolata by Dr. Cooper and 

 others pertain, I believe, to forms of the levis group, which is known 

 to occur from Asuncion Island northward, a region where areolata 

 does not occur. The known areas of levis and areolata are separated 

 by a long reach of coast whence no land snails are known. The 

 Natividad Island specimen I dissected as areolata (1898) is a form of 

 veatchii. With the exception of var. exanimata Cooper, areolata is 

 not known to occur elsewhere than about Magdalena Bay, where it 

 inhabits one of the dryest regions in the world. 



The shell is opaque white, with ochre-lirown bands broken into 

 square spots, very variable in number and arrangement, as shown 

 in the figures. In one lot, markings are absent, or indistinct and 

 corneous. The embryonic whorl is grayish corneous or yellowish 

 corneous. The columella varies from simple to distinctly toothed. 

 The size varies. 



Alt. 



(1) Var. arida (pi. XVI, figs. 39, 40, 41). Small, thin, white, or 

 having sparse markings of typical form and color; lip hardly or not 

 thickened, columella concave, not toothed. Descent of the last whorl 

 to the aperture deeper and longer than in any other form of areolata. 



Alt. 14, diam. 18 mm.; 4| whorls. 

 " 15, '' 181 '' 4f '' 



Magdalena Bay (R. C. Macgregor). 



*The locality "Margarita Bay, Newcomb," quoted by Dall, must have been 

 an error or slip of Newcomb's for Magdalena Bay, or more likely Margarita 

 Island, which guards the bay, since, so far as I can learn, there is no Margarita 

 Bay on that coast. 

 26 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



(2) Var. scammoni (pi. XVI, figs. 34, 35, 36). Small, with many 

 or few narrow brown bands (translucent gray in fossil or dead shells), 

 continuous or nearly so, sometimes wanting. Columellar tooth 

 usually developed, often weak, sometimes wanting. 



Alt. 



Magdalena Bay (W. M. Gabb), 14 specimens. 



Pfeiffer's fig. 13 (copied in my text-fig. 2, d) was probably this 

 variety, which I name for Capt. Scammon, who has given a good 

 account of this coast. 



(3) Var. aspersa (pi. XVI, figs. 37, 38). Small, last whorl ^Zo6ose, 

 spire short. With wide marbled brown bands resembling those of 

 M. veatchii or Helix aspersa in pattern. Columellar tooth distinct or 

 indicated. 



Alt. 17.3, diam. 20 mm.; 4f whorls. 

 " 14.8, " 17 " 



Magdalena Bay (W. M. Gabb). 



(4) Var. exanimata Cooper, Proc. Col. Acad. Sci. (2) III, p. 216, 

 pi. XIV, fig. 7, from Espirito Santo Island, in the Gulf of California, 

 is known "to me only by the original account. I would expect it to 

 be specifically different. It is the only form of this group yet found 

 on the gulf side of the peninsula. 



Helix decorata Pfr. (Conchyl. Cab., p. 249, pi. XXXVI, figs. 14, 15), 

 the locality of which is unknown, may be a fully colored, thin, de- 

 pressed form of areolata. It has been referred to H. pisana with 

 doubt, and seems to-be a ''lost species. " It is not Helix decorata Fer. 

 I have copied the figures of decorata in text-fig. 3. 



^ «x«^ ^ 



Fig. Z.-^Helix decorata Pfr., copied from the Conchijlien Cabinet. 



Explanation of Plates XV, XVI. 



Plate XV. — Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Micrarionta veatchii 'Nc' Tryon. North end of 

 Cerros Island. H. N. Lowe. A. N. S. P. No. 106,016. 

 Fig. 4.—M. veatchii. Cerros I. Gabb. No. 10,261. 

 Fig. 5.—M. veatchii. Cerros I. Hemphill. No. 60,034. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



Figs. 6, 7. — M. veatchii. Cerros I. Newcomb. Two of the cotypes. No, 



10,263. 

 Fig. 8.—M. veatchii, var. 6. Turtle Bay. Hemphill. No. 60,038. 

 Fig. 9. — Micrarionta veatchii, var. 5. Turtle Bay. Hemphill. No. 60,046. 

 Fig. 10. — Micrarionta veatchii, var. leucanthea Dall. Cotype, U. S. Nat. Mus. 



No. 107,627. 

 Fig. 11. — Micrarionta veatchii, vax. 5. Turtle Bay. Hemphill. No. 60,041. 

 Fig. 12. — Micrarionta veatchii, var. 4. Natividad Island. Anthony. 



No. 69,646. 

 Figs. 13, 14:.— Micrarionta veatchii, var. 3. Cerros Island. Hemphill. 



No. 60,036. 

 Figs. 15, 16. — Micrarionta veatchii, var. 2. Cerros Island. Hemphill. 



No. 60,035. 

 Figs. 17-20. — Micrarionta pandorce Forbes. S. Benito Island. Anthony. 



No. 66,092. 

 Figs. 21, 22, 23. — Micrarionta pandorce, Forbes. S. Benito Island. Hemp- 

 hill. No. 10,297. 

 Fig. 24. — Micrarionta areolata crassula, Dall. Cotype Natividad Island, 



Anthony. U. S. Nat. Mus. No. 107,623. 



Plate XVI.— Figs. 25, 2%.— Micrarionta areolata 'Sowb.' Pfr. Magdalena Bay. 



HemphiU. A. N. S. No. 10,298. 

 Fig. 27.— ikf. areolata. White form. No. 10,299. 



Fig. 28. — M. areolata. Specimen received from Sowerby. No. 10,300. 

 Figs. 29, 30, 31.— M. areolata. Magdalena Bay. W. M. Gabb. No. 10,264. 

 Figs. 32, 33.— M. areolata. Santa Maria Bay. Stearns. No. 10,301. 

 Figs. 34, 35.— M. areolata scammoni Fils. Cotypes. Magdalena Bay. Gabb. 



No. 10,302. 

 Fig. 36.— il/. areolata scammoni Pils. Cotype. No. 10,266. 

 Fig. 37, 38. — M. areolata aspersa Pils. Cotvpes. No. 10,265. 

 Figs. 39, 40, 41.— M. areolata arida Pils. Cotypes. No. 76,208. 

 Figs. 42, 43, 45.— M. levis Pfr. Turtle Bay. Nos. 60,045, 60,042. 

 Fig. 44.— M. lems Pfr. Cerros Island. HemphUl. No. 60,037 

 Fig. 46.— ilf. levis globosa Pils. Type. W. M. Gabb. No. 10,304. 

 Fig. 47.— M. levis globosa Pils. No. 10,305. 

 Fig. 48. — Micrarionta levis var. Asuncion Island. R. E. C. Stearns. No. 



10,306. 

 Figs. 49, 50.— Micrarionta levis var. 1. San Geronimo Island. H. N. Lowe. 



No. 109,064. 

 Fig. 51.— Micrarionta levis Pfr. Photographic copy of Pfeiffer's type figure. 

 Fig. 52.— Micrarionta levis var. Photographic copy of Pfeiffer's figure. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



A REVISION OF THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS NEMOBITJS (ORTHOPTERA . 



GRYLLID^) FOUND IN NORTH AMERICA NORTH OF 



THE ISTHMUS OF PANAMA. 



BY MORGAN HEBARD. 



The genus Nemohius is typical of the group Nemobiites, the other 

 genera of which are more or less aberrant. The group Nemobiites 

 stands at the head of the subfamily Gryllinae, which is the second 

 division of the family Grylhdse. 



All of the species of Nemohius are of small size and are rather 

 delicate in structure; their bodies are covered with long hairs. The 

 plasticity in certain species, the lack of characters in the male 

 genitalia and the great variability in size, wing length, and coloration, 

 all combine to make the study of the genus difficult. Added to this, 

 the many incorrect determinations and frequent synonyms have 

 caused the task of correcting the nomenclature to be unusually 

 complex. An effort is made in the present paper to afford sufficient 

 information for subsequent workers to be able satisfactorily to 

 determine material of either sex, but it is certain that, especially 

 in the males of some species, no single specific character can be 

 considered absolutely trustworthy, and careful consideration of all 

 the specific differences must be made before a safe conclusion can be 

 reached. The large series of different species before us show con- 

 clusively that, where some character may be safely relied upon in a 

 large series of the same species from one region, that character is 

 often obscure or unreliable in series from other portions of the insects 

 range and in consequence can only be used to supplement the com- 

 bination of characters found in that species. 



Genus NEMOBIUS Serville. 



1839. Nemohius Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 34.5. [Generic de- 

 scription.] 



1869. Argizala Walker, Cat. Dermap. Saltat. Br. Mus., I, p. 60. [Generic 

 description.] 



1874. Nemohius Saussure, Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. Zool., VI, p. 380. [Key- 

 to American species and descriptions of new species.] 



1877. Nemohius Saussure, Melang. Orth., II, Fasc. V, p. 236. [Full 

 generic description, key to species of the world and many descriptions of 

 new species.] 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



1896. Nemobius Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 99. [Key to North 

 American species and descriptions of new species.] 



1896. Noyiobius Pantel, Anal. Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., XXV, p. 47. [Mor- 

 phological studies.] 



1896. Nemobius Scudder, Psyche, VII, p. 431. [Key to North American 

 species and descriptions of new species.] 



1897. Nemobius Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, p. 221. [Key to 

 Central American species and descriptions of new species.] 



1900. Nemobius Blatchley, Psyche, IX, p. 51. [The Indiana species with 

 descriptions of new species.] 



1903. Nemobius Blatchley, Orth. of Indiana, p. 419. [Numerous notes 

 and description of one new species.] 



1904. Nemobius E. M. Walker, Can. Ent., XXXVI, p. 181. [Numerous 

 notes and descriptions of new species.] 



1906. Nemobius Kirby, Synon. Catal. Orth., II, p. 13. [List of species.] 



The genus included two species. Genotype — Nemobius {Nevio- 

 hius) sylvestris [Acheta sylvestris] (Bosc), selected by Kirby, 1906. 



Generic Description.— ^ize small; form compact; body pub.escent 

 and sparsely clothed with long chsetiform hairs. Head rounded, 

 a little flattened in front; interantennal protuberance feeble, obtuse 

 and rather large; eyes oval, rather protuberant; maxillary palpi 

 with distal extremity of terminal joint very moderately oblique. 

 Pronotum a little wider cephalad than the head; lateral lobes with 

 ventral margin horizontal, the ventro-cephalic and ventro-caudal 

 angles projecting about the same and similarly rounded. Tegmina 

 complete or abbreviate; in the male furnished with a rather simple 

 tambourine, having only a single ulnar (oblique) vein which is longitud- 

 inal, lengthened, developing from the angle of the stridulating (anal) 

 vein; in the female the dorsal field is furnished with few but promi- 

 nent longitudinal veins connected by transverse veinlets which are 

 directed at right angles to the veins; the tegmina are always present 

 in the North American species and are rounded at the apex; lateral 

 field of tegmina occupied by five or six simple veins which are free 

 from their bases. Wings strongly developed, abbreviate or absent. 

 Ovipositor slender, long and straight, or shorter and very gently 

 arcuate; apex very little enlarged, in all of the North American 

 species the portion formed by the dorsal valves is armed with serra- 

 tions or serrulations, the portion formed by the ventral valves is 

 unarmed or supplied with minute, very widely spaced serrulations. 

 Cerci of both sexes moderately long, tapering, and covered with 

 hairs. Cephalic tibiae supplied with a few long slender hairs, caudal 

 face only bearing a distinct tympanum, corresponding portion of 

 cephalic face slightly swollen. Caudal femora greatly dilated; 

 caudal tibiae with dorsal margin armed with a double row of extremely 

 long, widely spaced, mobile spines (in the North American species, 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



four pairs are present on each tibia), and armed distad with three 

 pairs of well developed spurs, the dorso-internal longer than any of 

 the other distal spurs. Caudal metatarsus non-sulcate and unarmed 

 dorsad, the distal extremity armed on both sides with long spines, 

 of which the internal is much the longer, and above these are situated 

 two minute teeth. 



Morphological Notes. — In the present genus the spines and spurs 

 of the caudal tibiae are extremely interesting. 



In the study of the North American species Mr. A. N. Caudell 

 first pointed out to the author a character in the distal spurs of the 

 caudal tibiae which proves to be absolutely constant and of the 

 greatest value. In four groups of North American species the internal 

 disto-ventral spur is much longer than the external disto-ventral 

 spur, in the remaining group these spurs are exactly equal in length. 



In the males of all of the North American species the proximo- 

 internal spine of the caudal tibia is highly specialized in structure. 

 It differs from the other spines in being very short, large at the base, 

 irregularly conical, suddenly attenuate and soft to the immediate 

 apex which is sharply pointed. The enlarged base is hard, of dark 

 color and polished, the soft portion is light in color and somewhat 

 translucent, while the immediate apex is hard and rather dark in 

 color. Frequently the hard apex is missing, and in such cases there 

 is every indication that it has been broken off. PanteP has carefully 

 discussed this peculiar specialization in his interesting morphological 

 studies in the present genus, and it has been casually noted in certain 

 species by other authors." 



We find other interesting characters in the spines of the caudal 

 tibiae of the North American species of the genus. In all of the 

 species having the disto-ventral spurs unequal in length the spines 

 (with the exception of the proximo-internal spine in the males, 

 which we have discussed above) are above rounded and hairy, below 

 concave with the margins of this sulcation minutely serrulate. In 

 all of the species having the disto-ventral spurs equal in length, the 

 disto-internal spine in the males is somewhat swollen near its base 

 and its shaft is appreciably bent; the other spines (likewise with 

 the exception of the proximo-internal spine in the males) are above 

 rounded and hairy, below concave, but with the margins of this 

 sulcation smooth. The apices of all of the spurs and spines of the 



1 Anal. Soc. Esp. Hist. Nat., XXV, p. 47, 1896. 



2 Saussure, Melarig. Orth., II, Fasc. V, p. 267, pi. 11, fig. VII, 6i, 1877. Brunner, 

 Prodr. Europ. Orth., p. 424, 1882. 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



397 



Fig. 1. Fig. 2. 



Diagrammatic sketches of venation of male (Fig. 1) and female (Fig. 2) tegmina 

 of Nemobius. 



1 Mediastine Vein (Saussm-e and Brunner). 



2 Humeral Vein (Saussure) = Anterior Radial Vein (Brunner). 



3 Discoidal Vein (Saussure) = Posterior Radial Vein (Brunner). 



4 Median Vein = False Discoidal Vein (Saussure) = Ramus of 



Posterior Radial Vein (Brunner). 

 5 Ulnar Vein = Oblique Vein (Saussure) = Anterior Ulnar Vein 



(Brunner) . 



6 Anal Vein (Saussure) = Posterior Ulnar Vein (Brunner). 



A Axillary Veins. 



S. V Stridulating Vein. 



C Cordes or Postaxillary Veins. 



D. V Diagonal Vein. 



F Free Veins of Lateral Field. 



D.-A. R. B....Discoido-anal Root-basin. 



C. V Cross- veinlets. 



L. F Lateral Field. 



D. F Dorsal Field (which includes Apical Area). 



I. C Intermediate Channel. 



T Tambourine. 



A. N Anal Node, Musical Node, Node. 



A. A Apical or Distal Area. 



S. M Sutural Margin. 



C. M Costal Margin. 



Mgn. B. T... Approximate margin of Tegmina in brachypterous forms. 



M Speculum or Mirror. 



CC Cells formed by Cordes. 



I Interior Cell of Speculum. 



E Exterior Cell of Speculum. 



X Cells of Apical Area. 



S Stigma. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



caudal tibiae are uncinate; smooth, sharp, and hard. Pantel has 

 also discussed the peculiarities of the distal (or fourth) internal spine 

 of the caudal tibia in his paper, where he has also given an excellent 

 figure of the spines and spurs of the caudal tibia in the male and 

 female of Nemobius Uneolatus Brulle. 



In the species having the disto-ventral spurs equal in length, the 

 internal dorsal and median spurs have lateral fringes of hairs on these 

 spurs more prominent and regular than in the other species. 



Comparison with Other Genera. — When compared with the genus 

 to which it is most nearly related, Paranemohius Saussure, we find 

 that Nemobius can be easily separated by the following characters: 

 the lateral lobes of the pronotum are quadrate, not oblique; the 

 tegmina of the male are provided with a tympanum; the vertex is 

 slightly convex, not excavate and rostrate; the caudal tibiae are each 

 armed with six, not five, distal spurs. The genus of next nearest 

 relationship is Caconemobius Kirby, which differs in the lateral lobes 

 of the pronotum which are not quadrate, the organs of flight which 

 are absent and the cephalic tibiae which have no tympanum. From 

 the other more nearly related genera, Nemobius may be readily 

 separated by the characters found in the caudal tibiae which are 

 armed with long, mobile, pilose spines and in the caudal metatarsi 

 which are neither sulcate nor serrate dorsad. 



Distribution of the Genus in North America. — The northern boundary 

 of the range of the genus is known to extend from Prince Edward 

 Island westward across Canada to Calgary, Alberta; from the latter 

 locality it has been found southward in the Yellowstone National 

 Park and the Salt Lake Valley in Utah, these localities showing its 

 extreme western distribution until southern Utah is reached, in which 

 latitude it has been taken at St. George, Utah, Las Vegas, Nev., and 

 the Panamint Valley in California to the Pacific coast at Los Angeles. 

 The genus is apparently found everywhere else in the United States 

 and Mexico south to the Isthmus of Panama, although the very few 

 records from southern Mexico, Nicaragua, and Costa .Rica may 

 possibly indicate that in these southern regions the genus is very 

 scarce. In the West Indies the genus has been taken in the Bahamas, 

 Cuba, and Granada. 



We consider the northern distribution of the genus in the Dominion 

 of Canada probably limited by the spruce belt only, but so little 

 work has been done so far north that nothing definite can at present 

 be stated. No specimens have been taken in Arkansas, Oklahoma, 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



and on the majority of the West Indian islands, but careful work 

 will show that the genus is well distributed in these regions with 

 scarcely any doubt. No material is known from Yucatan, Honduras, 

 Salvador and Panama, where the genus will almost certainly be 

 found, though very possibly in few numbers. 



History. — The important references to the genus which apply to 

 the North American species have already been given. 



Walker described the genus Argizala in 1869,^ which genus is 

 monotypic and was synonymized by Saussure in 1877^ under Nemo- 

 hius. We consider Argizala to be a valid subgenus, distinguished 

 from the subgenus Allonemobius by the very large size, peculiar 

 glossiness, much more transverse pronotum, longer spines of the 

 caudal tibia and ovipositor with apex armed above with serrulations. 

 This subgenus will probably be found to belong chiefly to the South 

 American fauna when the species of the present genus from that 

 continent have been carefully studied. Nemohius hrasiliensis, the 

 genotype, is the only species of this subgenus known from North 

 America. 



The following North American species have l)een wrongly referred 

 to the genus Nemohius. 



In 1842, De Haan in Temminck'^ recorded two species of the genus 

 Anaxipha as Gryllus (Nemohius) pulicarius and pumilus; this caused 

 Walker to refer the first of these species with a query to Nemohius 

 in 1869." 



Scudder described Nemohius circumcinctus in 1868,'^ which name 

 was used by Walker,^ Thomas,^ and Saussure^*^ until 1896, when the 

 species was correctly synonymized as Proihacustes mexicana Saussure 

 by the original author of the synonym." 



In 1896,^- Scudder described two species of Gryllidae as Nemohius 

 distinguendus and ensifer, and later in the same year^^ two more 

 species as Nemohius pictus and delicatus. All four of these species 

 unquestionably belong to the genus Miogryllus, as our examination 

 of the types show. Saussure in the next year^^ followed Scudder 



3 Cat. Dermap. Saltat. Br. ilf ms., I, p. 60. 



KMelang. Orth., II, pp. 241, 25.5, 256. 



= Verhand. Natuur. Gesch. Nederl. Overz. Bezitl., Orth., p. 226. 



« Cat. Dermap. Saltat. Br. Mus., I, p. 111. 



' Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XII, p. 143. 



« 1869. Cat. Dermap. Saltat. Br. Mus., I, p. 57. 



3 1870. Am. Ent., II, p. 206. 

 1° 1874. Miss. Sci. Me.v., Rech. Zool., VI, p. 385. 

 " Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc., IV, p. 99. 

 ^^Jour. N. Y.Ent. Soc., IV, pp. 100, 101. 

 13 P.syche, VII, pp. 431, 433, 434. 

 1* Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, pp. 222, 224. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



when quoting the latter's records of distinguendus and ensifer. In 

 1906/5 Kirby followed Scudder in quoting pictus as a Nemohius, but 

 two years later Rehn and Hebard^^ correctly quoted the species for 

 the first time as a Miogryllus. 



Kirby also gives Nemohius exiguus Say in his list/^ though that 

 species has long been known to belong to the genus Anaxipha. 



Examination of the types shows that Nemohius alleni Morse/^ 

 belongs to a different genus. 



An exotic species has been recorded as a North American species 

 but once. In 1906, CaudelP^ recorded as Nemohius fasciatus from 

 Sapucay, Paraguay, specimens of the South American species 

 Nemohius rufus. 



The following records cannot be determined without examination 

 of the material. 



Theresa of Bavaria's-" record of Nemohius exiguus from Brazo de 

 Loba, Lower Magdalena River, Colombia, South America, and 

 Woodworth's-^ records of Nemohius mexicanus and neomexicanus 

 from California. 



We have omitted Nemohius trinitatis Scudder, owing to the fact 

 that until additional material from Trinidad is secured little definite 

 can be said of this insect. The type series is in bad condition, and 

 we feel justified in stating only that the specimens belong to the 

 subgenus Eunemobius and may prove to be an insular race of Nemohius 

 carolinus. Though the type series are all from the South American 

 fauna, the specimens recorded by Brunner-- as Nemohius cuhensis 

 from Balthazar, Granada, have been examined and found to belong 

 probably to this insect. 



Material Examined. — ^2,088 specimens: 890 males, 1,144 females 

 and 54 nymphs. 



In the preparation of the present work the types of the following 

 species have been before us : — 



{Nemohius utahensis Scudder, synonym of Nemobius fasciatus (De Geer).) 

 Nemohius fasciatus socius Scudder. 



(Nemohius canus Scudder, synonym of Nemohius fasciatus socius Scudder.) 

 {Nemohius aterrimus Scudder, synonym of Nemohius fasciatus socius Scudder.) 



15 Synon. Catal. Orth., II, p. 17. 



^^Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1908, p. 401. 



17 1906. Synon. Catal. Orth., II, p. 19. 



18 1905. Psyche, XII, pp. 21, 22. 



19 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 243. 



20 1900. Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., XIV, p. 258. 



21 1902. Univ. Cal. Agr. Exp. Sta. Bull, p. 142, fig. 7a. 



22 1893. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1893, p. 609. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



{Nemobius hasiatus Saussure, synonym of Nemobius fasciatus socius Scudder.) 

 Ndnobius fasciaius abortivus Caudell. 

 Nemobius maculatus Blatchley. 

 Nemobius griseus E. M. Walker. 

 Nemobius griseus funeralis Hart. 

 Nemobius ambitiosus Scudder. 



Nemobius brasiliensis {¥. Walker). av„ii-ov ^ 



{Nemobius melleus Scudder, synonym of hemobius brasihensis I . Walkei.) 

 Nemobius patttdi n. sp. 



Ne))i(ihiiis Iirinitri n. sp. , • o \ 



(Ncninhuis rnlnlicus Scudder, synonym of Nemobius cubensis Saussure.) 

 Nemuhiiis ciiIk itsis mormonius Scudder. 



{Nemobius comanchus Saussure, synonym of Nemobius cubensis mormonius 

 Scudder.) 



Nemobius palustris Blatchley. 



Nemobius palustris aurantius Rehn and Hebard. 



Nemobius carolin us Scudder. c'„„rUav ^ 



{Nemobius angusticollis E. M. Walker, synonym of ^emoblus carolmus bcudder.J 



Nemobius caroUnus brevicaudus Bruner. 



Nemobius carolinus neomexicanus Scudder. 



Nemobius confusus Blatchley. 



A large portion of the material is located in the author's collection, 

 that of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the 

 Hebard Collection ex Bruner. We are deeply indebted to Mr. W. S. 

 Blatchley, Dr. E. M. Walker, and Mr. Charles A. Hart for the loan 

 of their types of the genus; to Dr. Samuel Henshaw, for the privilege 

 of studying all of the types and other material in the Scudder Col- 

 lection and to Mr. A. N. Caudell, for the opportunity of studying 

 the types of Nemobius in the National Museum and the loan of that 

 institution's entire collection of Nemobius with the exception of the 

 types. Mr. W. T. Davis, Messrs. Sherman and Brimley, Professor 

 A. P. Morse, Mr. J. Chester Bradley, Mr. Charles Schaeffer of the 

 Museum of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, and Mr. Lutz 

 of the American Museum of Natural History, have also been very 

 kind and have aided us greatly in sending their collections of Nemo- 

 bins for examination. 



Key of the North American Species of the Genus Nemobius. 



A — Disto-ventral spurs of caudal tibia unequal in length. All 

 spines of caudal tibia (excepting in the male the proximo- 

 internal spine) concave below with margins of this sulcation 

 minutely serrulate, the disto-internal spine not specialized. 

 Ovipositor with ventral margin of apex unarmed. 

 B.— Ovipositor nearly rigidly straight; nearly as long as or longer 

 than the caudal femur (excepting in the geographic races 

 Nemobius fasciatus socius and Nemobius griseus funeralis 

 and in the species Nemobius panteli). 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June,. 



C. — Ovipositor with dorsal margin of apex obliquely subtruncate,. 



armed with teeth (Subgenus AUonemohius).. 



D. — Ovipositor with dorsal margin of apex armed with not 



very sharp teeth. 



E. — Ovipositor distinctly longer than caudal femur (in 



occasional specimens this character does not hold). 



F. — Size large to small for genus. Apex of ovipositor 



narrowly sublanceolate, enlarged portion longer. 



Coloration rusty black to dusky brown, rather 



immaculate, occiput obscurely striped 



fasciatus (De Geer). 

 FF. — Size medium to small for the genus. Apex of 

 ovipositor sublanceolate, enlarged portion shorter. 

 Coloration very dark, occipital stripes indistin- 

 guishable .fasciatus abortivus Caudell. 



EE. — Ovipositor as long as or shorter than caudal femur,, 

 (in occasional specimens this character does not 



hold). Coloration as in fasciatus 



fasciatus socius Scudder. 



DD.— Ovipositor with dorsal margin of apex armed with very 



sharp teeth. 



E. — Size medium, form robust. Ovipositor as long as 



caudal femur, this length constant. 



F. — Ovipositor with rather heavy sublanceolate apex 



armed with rather heavy teeth. Coloration dark 



brown maculate with piceous, pale yellowish line 



about eyes excepting on infra-ocular portion of 



the gense, no other striking markings on head 



maculatus Blatchley. 

 FF. — Ovipositor with similar but somewhat shorter apex 

 armed with somewhat heavier serrations. Colora- 

 tion dark brown, somewhat maculate with a 

 darker shade, head very strikingly and character- 

 istically marked ambitiosus Scudder. 



EE. — Size somewhat smaller, form more slender. Ovipositor 



extremely variable in length. (Coloration of head 



below antennae strikingly piceous, occiput obscurely 



striped.) 



F. — Ovipositor usually much longer than caudal femur. 



Coloration light to dark brown with a grayish 



suffusion griseus E. M. Walker. 



FF. — Ovipositor shorter than caudal femur. Coloration 



very dark brown with a grayish suffusion 



griseus funeralis Hart. 



CC. — Ovipositor with dorsal margin of apex straight, armed with 



closely spaced serrulations. 



D. — Pronotum with length considerably more than half the 



width. Ovipositor considerably shorter than caudal 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



femur. Size large, form compact. Coloration very 



dark brown, not iridescent 



(Subgenus Brachynemobius) 



panteli n. sp. 



DD. — Pronotum with length approximately half the width. 



Ovipositor nearly as long as caudal femur. Size very 



large, form more graceful. Coloration very pale, 



cream buff to tawny olive, moderately iridescent 



(Subgenus Arigizala) 



brasiliensis F. Walker. 



BB. — Ovipositor gently curved; about two-thirds as long as caudal 



femur (Subgenus Neonemobius). 



C. — Ovipositor more decidedly curved, dorsal margin of apex 



armed with serrations. Form robust. 



D. — Size large. Ovipositor heavier and very decidedly 



curved for the genus; apex armed with blunt serrations. 



Coloration chestnut, decidedly marked with very dark 



brown toltecus Saussure. 



DD. — Size medium. Ovipositor less heav}^ and not as decidedly 

 curved; apex armed with very sharp serrations. 

 Coloration clay color, mottled and flecked with dark 



brown bruneri n. sp. 



CC. — Ovipositor very gently curved, dorsal margin of apex armed 

 with very fine serrulations. Form not so robust. 

 D. — Size small. Coloration not solid. 



E. — Form quite slender. Coloration dark brown, very 



little mottled, without occipital darker line 



cubensis Saussure. 



EE. — Form not as slender. Coloration usually not as dark 



brown, frequently very much paler, more mottled 



and with an occipital darker line 



cubensis mormonius Scudder. 

 DD. — Size very small. Coloration solid. 



E. — Coloration of head, pronotum and liml)s solid Vandyke 

 brown; tegmina and dorsal surface of abdomen dark 



clove brown palustris Blatchley. 



EE. — Coloration of head, pronotum and limbs almost uniform 

 ochraceous; tegmina and dorsal surface of abdomen 



black palustris aurantius Rehn and Hebard. 



AA. — Disto-ventral spurs of caudal tibia equal in length. Disto- 

 internal spine of caudal tibia specialized (in male only), all- 

 other spines (excepting in the male the proximal internal 

 spine) concave below with margins of this sulcation smooth. 

 Ovipositor with ventral margin of apex armed with minute, 



widely spaced serrulations (Subgenus Eunemobius.) 



B. — Size medium. Maxillary palpi not immaculate, rather 

 yellowish with tip of terminal segment darkened. Colora- 

 tion rather pale brown, dorsal surface of female abdomen 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June^ 



with three rows of paler spots. Apex of ovipositor sub- 

 lanceolate, armament of same heavy. 

 C. — Form rather stout. 



D. — Coloration dark mummy brown, spots of dorsal surface 

 of female abdomen moderate in size. Ovipositor more 



than half as long as caudal femur carolinus Scudder. 



DD. — Coloration wood brown, spots of dorsal surface of female 

 abdomen extremely large. Ovipositor less than half as 



long as caudal femur carolinus hrevicaudus Bruner. 



CC. — Form somewhat more slender. (Coloration usually con- 

 siderably paler than in carolinus) 



carolinus neomexicanus Scudd. 

 BB. — Size small. Maxillary palpi immaculate bone white. Colora- 

 tion solid, very dark brown, dorsal surface of female abdo- 

 men immaculate. Apex of ovipositor lanceolate, armament 

 of same very heavy confusus Blatchley. 



The present key is of necessity somewhat involved owing to the 

 difficulties found in the present genus and commented upon at the 

 beginning of this paper. 



In some species it may be seen that certain characters, which are 

 of little or no value in the majority of species, are of great importance. 

 The color pattern of the head is distinctive in Nemobius maculatus, 

 ambitiosus, griseus and griseus funeralis. The coloration of the 

 maxillary palpi is distinctive in Nemobius carolinus and its races and 

 particularly so in confusus. 



Certain important differences exist in the North American species 

 of the genus which are of sufficient value to warrant the erection of 

 four subgenera and the recognition of Walker's Argizala as another 

 subgenus. A study of all the species of Nemobius of the world would 

 probably show the advisability of considering some of these groups 

 separate genera, while many other groups not found in North America 

 would constitute still other genera and subgenera. 



The genotype of Nemobius is Nemobius sylvestris of Europe, which 

 species belongs to a group differing very widely from any of those 

 here treated in the following combination of characters. Spines of 

 caudal tibia unmodified in both sexes, disto-ventral spurs of same 

 unequal, but not nearly as much so as in the North American species 

 having this character. Ovipositor longer than caudal femur, nearly 

 rigidly straight; apex very narrowly sublanceolate and wholly 

 unarmed. Color pattern of head distinctive. Nemobius sylvestris 

 bears a superficial resemblance to Nemobius aynbitiosus. 



Examination of other exotic species shows that the genus Nemobius 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



is divided into numerous natural groups everywhere in its distribution 

 as in North America. 



A number of species treated in the present paper are found in both 

 brachypterous and macropterous forms, while others are known from 

 brachypterous or macropterous individuals only. These facts have 

 been treated under the Biological Notes for each species, as habit 

 and environment appear to have been chiefly instrumental in such 

 development. These differences are almost wholly without value as 

 specific characters, and, since they have been frequently so used^ 

 have given rise to much confusion in the past literature. 



Subgenus ALLONEMOBIUS n. subgen. 



The subgenus includes four species and three geographic races 

 from North America. Type of Subgenus — Nemobius fasciatus 

 [Gryllus fasciatus] (De Geer) . 



Suhgeneric Description. — Size large to small for the genus. Disto- 

 ventral spurs of caudal tibia very unequal in length. Proximo- 

 internal spine of caudal tibia in male specialized as described under 

 Morphological Notes for the genus; other spines of caudal tibia 

 below concave, with margins of this sulcation minutely serrulate in 

 both sexes, the disto-internal spine not specialized. Ovipositor long 

 and nearly rigidly straight; apex with margin of portion formed by 

 dorsal valves obliquely subtruncate and armed with teeth, the 

 portion formed by ventral valves unarmed. 



Nemobius fasciatus (DeGeer). 



1773. Gryllus fasciatus De Geer, Mem. I'Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 522, PI. 43, fig. 5. 



(Original description.) [Pennsylvania.] 

 1775. A[cheta] hospes Fabricius, Syst. Ent., p. 281. (Description.) 



[America.] 

 1791. Gryllus hospes Olivier, Encycl. Meth., VI, p. 636. (First use of name.) 

 1835. Acheta servilis Harris, Hitch., Kept. Geol. Mass., 2d ed., p. 576. 



[Massachusetts.] 

 1841. Acheta vittata Harris, Ins. Inj. Veget., 1st ed., p. 123. (Description.) 



"1847. ^^ Acheta vittata Fitch, Am. Jour. Agr. Sci., VI, p. 146. [New York.]" 

 18.54. Acheta vittata Jaeger, No. Am. Ins., 1st ed., p. 160. [Brief notes on 

 habits.] 



1861. Nemobius viltatus Packard, Rept. Nat. Hist. Me., 1861, p. 376. 

 [Chamberlain Farm, Maine.] 



1862. N[emobius] exiguus Scudder (not Acheta exigua Say, 1825), Bost. Jour. 

 Nat. Hist., VII, pp. 429, 430. [St. Louis, Missouri; Minnesota.] 



1862. N[emobius] vittatus Scudder, Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., VII, p. 430. 



[Massachusetts; Maine; Connecticut.] 

 1862. N[emobius] fasciatus Scudder, Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., VII, pp. 430, 431. 



(In part.) [Massachusetts; Delphi, Indiana.] 



^ A reference in quotation marks indicates in the present paper that the 

 author has been unable to see that paper, otherwise all of the references have 

 been verified. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



1863. Acheta vittata Rathvon, Rept. U. S. Dept. Agr., 1862, p. 380, PI. 



fig. 16. [Lancaster, Pennsylvania.] 

 "1865. Nemobius viltatus Thomas, Trans. 111. St. Agr. Soc, V, p. 443. 



[Illinois.]" 

 1868. Nemobius fasciatus S. I. Smith, Proc. Portl. Soc. Nat. Hist., I, p. 144. 



[Norway, Maine, at light; Treats Island near Eastport, Maine.] 

 1868. Nemobius vittatus S. I. Smith, Proc. Portl. Soc. Nat. Hi,st., I, p. 144. 



[Norway, Maine. Abundant over State.] 



1868. Nemobius vittatus Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XI, pp. 308, 

 309. [New England. Notes on stridulation.] 



1869. Nemobius fasciatus Walker, Cat. Dermap. Saltat. Br. Mus., I, p. 56. 

 (In part.) [North America.] 



1869. Nemobius riltaius Walker, Cat. Dermap. Saltat. Br. Mus., I, p. 57, 114. 

 [North America; Indiana; Nova Scotia.] 



1870. Nemobius viWiiu^ Riley, Am. Ent. and Bot., II, p. 373. [New Har- 

 mony, Indiana. Gnaws fruit.] 



"1872. Nemobius vittatus Smith, Rept. Conn. Bd. Agr., 1872, pp. 353, 370." 

 "1872. Nemobius fasciatus Smith, Rept. Conn. Bd. Agr., 1872, pp. 354, 379." 

 1872. Nemobius vittatus Walker, Can. Ent., IV, p. 30. [Nova Scotia.] 

 1872. Nemobius vittatus Scudder, Final Rept. U. S. Geol. Surv. Nebr., p. 249. 



[Banks of Platte River, Nebraska.] 

 1872. Nemobius vittatus Glover, Illust. N. A. Ent., PI. 3, figs. 9, 10. [Figures 



of cf and 9 .] 

 1872. Nemobius fasciatus Glover, Illust. N. A. Ent., PI. 6, fig. 13. [Figure 



of 9.] 

 1872. Nemobius exiguus Glover (not Acheta exigua Say, 1825), Illust. N. A. 



Ent., PL 7, fig. 18. [Figure of macropterous 9 •] 

 1874. Nemobius vittatus Scudder, Hitch. Rept. Geol. N. H., I, pp. 364, 365, 



fig. 48. [All over New Hampshire, even in White Mountain region.] 

 1874. Nemobius fasciatus Scudder, Hitch, Rept. Geol. N. H., I, p. 365. 



(In part.) [New Hampshire; Missouri.] 

 1876. Nemobius vittatus Provancher, Nat. Can., VIII, pp. 60, 61. [Better 



description. Quebec, Quebec. Very common everywhere in fields.] 



1876. Nemobius fasciatus Provancher, Nat. Can., VIII, p. 61. [Better 

 description. Quebec, Quebec] 



1877. Nemobius fasciatus Saussure, Melang. Orth., II, p. 243. [Notes and 

 measurements.] 



1877. Nemobius vittatus C. E. Bessey, Bienn. Rept. Iowa Agr. Coll., VII, 



p. 206. [Central Iowa.] 

 1877. Nemobius vittatus Packard, Am. Nat., XI, p. 422. [Experiments on 



sense organs.] 



1884. Nemobius vittatus Riley in Kingsley, Stand. Nat. Hist., II, p. 181. 

 [Common in our fields and pastures, [Eastern United States].] 



1885. Nemobius vittatus Bruner, Bull. Washb. Coll., I, p. 126. [Topeka; 

 MacPherson and Barber Counties, Kansas.] 



1886. Nemobius vittatus Caulfield, Can. Ent., XVII, p. 211. [Montreal, 

 Quebec. Abundant.] 



1886. Nemobius fasciatus Caulfield, Can. Ent., XVII, p. 211. [Montreal, 

 Quebec. Not as abundant.] 



1887. Nemobiiis vittatus Caulfield, Can. Rec. Sci., II, p. 393. [Toronto, 

 Ontario. Common.] 



"1888. Nemobius fasciatus Fernald, Ann. Rept. Mass. Agr. Coll., XXX, 

 p. 100. [New England.]" 



1889. Nemobius vittatus Davis, Ent. Am., V, p. 79. (In part.) [Staten 

 Island, New York.] 



1890. Nemobius vittatus Crane in Smith, Cat. Ins. N. J., p. 408. [Caldwell, 

 New Jersey. Common.] 



1890. Nemobius fasciatus Bruner in Smith, Cat. Ins. N. J., p. 408. [James- 

 burg, New Jersey.] 



1890. Nemobius fasciatus Smith, BuU, N. J. Exp. Sta., K, p. 41. [On 

 cranberry bogs.] 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



1891. Nemobius fasciatus McNeill, Psyche, VI, p. 6. [Rock Island, Illinois. 

 Abundant everywhere.] 



1891. Nemobius vittatus Osborn, U. S. Dept. Agr., Div. Ent., BuU. 23, p. 59. 

 [Ames, Iowa. Completely covered the surface of the ground that year.] 



1892. Nemobius vittatus Osborn, Proc. Iowa Acad. Sci., I, Pt. 2, p. 119. 

 [Ames, Iowa, and State. Very common in meadows and especially hillsides 

 with southern exposure.] 



1892. Nemobius fasciatus Smith, Bull. X. J. Exp. Sta., XC, p. 31. [Xot 



rare in New Jersey.] 

 1892. Nemobius vittatus Smith, Bull. X. J. Exp. Sta., XC, p. 31. [Xot 



common in Xew Jersey.] 



1892. Nemobius vittatus Blatchlej , Proc. Ind. Acad. Sci., 1891, pp. 135, 136. 

 [Enormous numbers in Indiana.] 



1893. Ne)7iobius fasciatus Bruner, Publ. Xebr. Acad. Sci., Ill, p. 32. 

 [General and common in eastern half of Xebraska.] 



1893. Nemobius vittatus Bruner, Publ. Xebr. Acad. Sci., Ill, p. 32. [About 

 the same range in Xebraska as fasciatus.] 



1894. Nemobius fasciatus Garman, Orth. of Ky., p. 6. [Very common 

 everywhere in meadows and pastures in Kentucky. Brachypterous form 

 much more common.] 



1894. Nemobius fasciatus Beutenmiiller, Bull. Am. Mus. Xat. Hist., VI, 



pp. 266, 267, PI. 5, fig. 9. [Xew York, X. Y.] 

 1894. Nemobius fasciatus vittatus Beutenmiiller, Bull. Am. Mus. Xat. Hist., 



VI, p. 267, PI. 5, fig. 10. [Xew York, X. Y.] 

 1896. Nemobius fasciatus Scudder, Jour. X. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, pp. 100, 102, 



103. (In part.) [Xorthern New England; Michigan; Manitoba; South 

 Dakota; Big Horn Mountains and Pine Cliffs (Bluffs), Wyoming; South 

 Bend, West Point, Sydney and Lincoln, Xebraska; Shawnee, Kansas; Vir- 

 ginia; Mount Graylock, Massachusetts; Decatur, Alabama.] 



1896. Nemobius utahensis Scudder, .Jour. X. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, pp. 100, 103, 



104. (Description.) [Spring Lake and Salt Lake VaUey, Utah.] 



1896. Nemobius cubensis Scudder, Jour. X. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 105. (In 



part.) [Ogle County, Illinois.] 

 1896. Nemobius fasciatus Pantel, Anal. Soc. Espan. Hist. X^'at., XXV, p. 51. 



(Morphological studies.) 

 1896. Nemobius fasciatus Scudder, Psyche, VII, p. 432. (Xew key.) 

 1896. Nemobius utahensis Scudder, Psyche, VII, p. 432. (Xew key.) 



1896. Nemobius fasciatus form vittatus Piers, Proc. and Trans. Xova Scotia 

 Inst. Sci., IX, Pt. 2, pp. 210, 211. [Windsor and Halifax, Xova Scotia. 

 Exceedingly abundant in fields. Xotes on appearance.] 



1897. Nemobius fasciatus vittatus Zabriskie, Jour. X. Y. Microsc. Soc, XIII, 

 pp. 1, 5, PI. 62, fig. 14. [Construction of musical rasps.] 



1897. Nemobius vittatus Blatchley, Ins. in Gen. and Orth. Ind. in Particular, 

 p. 23. [Indiana.] 



1897. Nemobius fasciatus Blatchley, Ins. in Gen. and Orth. Ind. in Particular, 

 p. 23. [Indiana.] 



1897. Nemobius fasciatus Harvey and Knight, Psyche, VIII, p. 77. [Jack- 

 man, Maine.] 



1897. Nemobius fasciatus Ball, Proc. Iowa Acad. Sci., IV, p. 236. [Iowa, in 

 fields.] 



1898. Nemobius fasciatus form vittatus Lugger, Orth. Minn., pp. 262, 263, 

 fig. 170. [Minnesota.] 



1898. Nemobius fasciatus Lugger, Orth. Minn., pp. 261, 262. [Minnesota.] 

 1898. Nemobius fasciatus Lochhead, Ann. Rept. Ent. Soc Ont., XXVIII, 



p. 42, figs. 29, 30. [Studies.] 

 1898. Nemobius vittatus Lochhead, Ann. Rept. Ent. Soc. Ont., XXVIII, 



p. 42. [Studies.] 

 "1899. Nemobius fasciatus vittatus Blatchley, Gleanings, p. 227, fig. 56." 

 1900. Nemobius fasciatus Xeedham, Occ Mem. Chicago Ent. Soc, I, p. 24. 

 1900. Nemobius fasciatus Blatchley, Psyche, IX, pp. 51, 52. [Indianapolis, 



Fort Wayne and other localities in northern Indiana.] 



27 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



1900. Nemobius fasciatus vittatus Blatchley, Psyche, IX, p. 52. [Indiana, 

 abundant everywhere.] 



1900. Xemobius fasciatus Fogg, Proc. jManchester Inst. Arts and Sci., I, 

 p. 46. [Manchester, New Hampshu-e.] 



1900. Nemobius fasciatus Scudder, Psyche, IX, p. 104. [Common every- 

 where in New England.] 



1900. Nemobius fasciatus Smith, Ins. of New Jersey, p. 164. [Staten 

 Island, N. Y.; New Brunswick, N. J.] 



1901. Nemobius fasciatus Pettit, Mich. St. Agr. Exp. Sta., Bull. 186, p. 39. 

 [Au Train Falls, Mich.] 



1902. Nemobius fasciatus Slosson, Ent. News, XIII, p. 8. [Summit of Mount 

 Washington, N. H.] 



1902. Nemobius fasciatus Fyles, 32d Ann. Kept. Ent. Soc. Ont., 1901, p. 92. 

 [Quebec, Quebec. Common.] 



1902. Nemobius maculatus E. M. Walker Cnot of Blatchley, 1900), 32d Ann. 

 Rept. Ent. Soc. Ont., 1901, p. 109. [Tobermory, Ont.] 



1903. Nemobius fasciatus Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, pp. 808, 

 809. (In part.) [Fort Collins, Colo.] 



1903. Nemobius utahensis Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, p. 809. 

 [Sedalia and Montevista, Colo.] 



1903. Nemobius fasciatus Blatchley, Orth. of Indiana, pp. 420, 423. [Brach- 

 ypterous from Terre Haute and all Indiana; macropterous from Round 

 Lake in Whitley County, Indianapohs and Fort Wayne, Ind.] 



1903. Nemobius canus Blatchley, Orth. of Indiana, pp. 420, 423, 424. 

 [Sparingly in southern Indiana; Crawford County, Ind.] 



1904. Nemobius fasciatus Mead, Dept. Zool. Ent. Ohio St. Univ., No. 19, 

 p. 112. [Cedar Point, Ohio.] 



1904. Nemobius fasciatus E. M. Walker, Can. Ent., XXXVI, pp. 182, 183. 

 [Niagara Falls, Point Pelee, Arner, Chatham, Sarnia, Goderich, Southamp- 

 ton, Bruce Peninsula, Owen Sound, Hamilton, Toronto, Lake Simcoe, 

 Severn River, Lake Muskoka, Algonquin Park, North Bay and Stony 

 Ijake in Peterboro County, Ont.] 



1904. Nemobius canus E. M. Walker, Can. Ent., XXXVI, pp. 182, 184. 

 [Arner, Ont.] 



1904. Nemobius maculatus E. M. Walker (not of Blatchley, 1900), Can. Ent., 

 XXXVI, pp. 182, 185. [Tobermory, Ont.] 



1904. Nemobius fasciatus Rehn, Ent. News, XV, p. 269. [Pequaming, 

 mainland opposite Pequaquawaming Point and Baraga County, Michigan. 

 Great majority brachypterous.] 



1904. Nemobius fasciatus Rehn, Ent. News, XV, p. 331. [Medford and 

 Atsion, N. J.] 



1904. Nemobius carolinus Rehn (not of Scudder, 1876), Ent. News,. XV, 

 p. 331. [Near West Creek and Atsion, N. J.] 



1905. Nemobius fasciatus Isely, Publ. Kan. Acad. Sci., p. 248. [Hiawatha, 

 Atchison, Fairview, Clearwater, Sedgwick and Wichita, Kan.] 



1905. Nemobius fasciatus Forbes, 111. St. Ent. 23d Rept., p. 214, figs. 225, 

 226. [Urbana, 111.] 



1905. Nemobius fasciatus form vittatus Kellogg, Am. Ins., p. 159, fig. 225. 

 [Popular notes.] 



1906. Nemobius fasciatus Hart, 111. St. Lab. Nat. Hist. Descr. Syn. Ins. Coll., 

 II, Orth., p. 89. [Illinois.] 



1906. Nemobius fasciatus vittatus Hart, lU. St. Lab. Nat. Hist. Descr. Syn. 

 Ins. Coll., II, Orth., p. 89. [lUinois.] 



1906. Nemobius canus Hart, lU. St. Lab. Nat. Hist. Descr. Syn. Ins. Coll., 

 II, Orth., p. 89. [Illinois.] 



1906. Nemobius fasciatus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1906, p. 418. ' [Mammoth Hot Springs and Old Faithful Geyser, Yellow- 

 stone National Park, Wyo.; Salt Lake City, Utah; St. Louis, Mo.] 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



1907. Nemobius fasciatus vittatus Hart, Bull. 111. St. Lab. Nat. Hist., VII, 

 No. VII, pp. 235, 262. [Devils Neck, Moline Sand Hill and yicmity, 111.] 

 ' 1907.' Nemobius fa sciahis Tucker, Kan. Univ. Sci. Bull., IV, No. 2, p. 75. 

 [Douglas County, Kan.] 



1907. Nemobius fasciatus var. vittatus Tucker, Kan. Univ. Sci. Bull., IV, 

 No. 2, p. 75. [Douglas County, Kan.] . 



1908. Nemobius fasciatus form vittatus Washburn, Press Bull. 32, Univ. 

 Minn. Agr. Exp. Sta. [Eagle Bend, Minnesota. Devours eggs of Melano- 

 plus [bi]vittatus.] 



1908. Nemobius fasciatus Paxson, Ent. News, XIX, p. 328. [Devon, 

 Pennsylvania. Numerous.] -■ ■ -ni -i 



1909. Nemobius utahensis Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. A at. Sci. Phila., 



1909, p. 173. [Albuquerque, N. Mex.] 



1909. Nemobius fasciatus E. M. Walker, Can. Ent., XLI, pp. 144, 211. 

 [Bear Island and elsewhere in Temagami District, Ont.] 



1910. Nemobius canus AUard, Proc. Ent. Soc. W^ash., XII, p. 41. [ihomp- 

 son's Mills, Ga.] 



1910. Nemobius fasciatus Hebard, Ent. News, XXI, p. 184. [New Haven, 

 Conn. Common.] -to 



1910. Nemobius fasciatus Rehn in Smith, Ann. Kept. N. J. State Mus. 1909, 

 p. 191. [Throughout New Jersey, most common in pine barrens.] 



1910 N[eynobius\ vittatus BeutenmiiUer insert in Rehn in Smith, Ann. Rept. 

 N. J. State Mus. 1909, p. 191. [More northern records.] 



1910. N[e7nobius] canus Rehn in Smith, Ann. Rept. N. J. State Mus. 1909, 



p. 192. [Sumner and Whitings, N. J.] 

 1910. N[emobius] macuMus Rehn in Smith (not of Blatchley, 1900), Ann. 



Rept. N. J. State Mus. 1909, p. 192. [Mount Pleasant, N J.] 

 1910. Nemobius fasciatus var. vittatus Allard, Ent. News, XXI, pp. 352, 355. 



[Oxford, Mass. Exceedingly common in fields.] 



1910. Nemobius palustris Allard (not of Blatchley, 1900), Ent. News, XXI, 

 pp. 352, 355. [Oxford, Mass. Cold damp places beneath loaves.] 



1911. Nemobius fasciatus (vittatus) Allard, Ent. News, XXII, pp. 28, 32, 33, 

 37. [Oxford, Mass.] 



1911. Nemobius palustris Allard (not of Blatchley, 1900), Ent. News, XXII, 



p. 37. [Misidentification first made in 1910.] ■ -r,. -, 



1911. Nemobius fasciatus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1910, pp. 645, 646. [Sulphur Springs and Mount Pisgah, N. C; Bay- 

 ville, Vir.] 



1911 Nemobius maculatus Rehn and Hebard (not of Blatchley, 1900), Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 647. (In part.) [Sulphur Springs, N. C.] 



1911. Nemobius fasciatus Hancock, Nature Sketches, p. 302, figs. [Lake- 

 side, Berrien County, Mich. Attracted to hght.] 



1911 N[emobius] fasciatus W^alden, Bull. 16, State Conn. State Geol. Nat. 

 Hist. Surv., pp. 151, 152. [Throughout Connecticut. Very common, 

 rarely macropterous.] , ^ . , -r^ . tvt or>i ta/t 



1911. Nemobius fasciatus Sherman and Brimley, Ent. News, p. 391. [Moun- 

 tains of North Carolina.] 



1911. Nemobius fasciatus Shull, :\Iichigan Geol. and Biol. Surv., Publ. 4, 

 Biol. Ser. 2, p. 229. [Huron County, Mich.] 



1912. Nemobius canus Washburn, Jour. Econ. Ent., V, No. 2, p. 11 < . [Fergus 



1912. Nemobius fasciatus Washburn, Jour. Econ. Ent., V, No. 2, p. 117. 

 [Fergus Falls, Minn.] 



The present species finds its nearest relatives in .V. maculatus and 

 N. griseus. From macidatus, typical fasciatus may be separated by 

 its larger size, more uniform general coloration, striped occiput, 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



longer and less decidedly truncate tegmina in both sexes and in the 

 female by the teeth of the dorsal margin of the apex of the ovipositor, 

 which in fasciatus are rather prominent but not very sharp, while in 

 maculatus these teeth are as prominent and verj' sharp. The ovi- 

 positor in typical fasciatus is also longer and not so rigidly straight. 



From griseus the present species may be readily distinguished by 

 its more robust proportions in even the smallest race, A'', fasciatus 

 abortivus, the different general coloration, and also in characters of 

 the ovipositor which in griseus are much as in maculatus. In fasciatus 

 the lower face is never darker than the interocular portion of the 

 same, while in griseus the lower face is strikinglj' darker than the 

 other portions of the head. 



Certain individuals of this plastic species approach maculatus 

 closely in general appearance, and those before us from Tobermory, 

 Ont., Mount Pleasant, N. J., and Sulphur Springs, N. C, recorded, 

 respectively, by E. M. Walker, Rehn, and Rehn and Hebard as 

 that species, do indeed bear it a close resemblance. There are 

 a number of other specimens in the present series likewise 

 differing from typical fasciatus in being small, highly colored and 

 more or less tawny, from numerous localities extending from New 

 Jersey to North Carolina. No specimens in this series, however, 

 have the peculiar color pattern of maculatus, nor the compact struc- 

 ture and tegminal outline of that species. From the form here 

 discussed to typical fasciatus, every gradation may be found in the 

 material before us. 



The series of specimens from Thompson's Mills, Ga., recorded by 

 Allard as N. canus bear a resemblance to the aberrant individuals 

 discussed above, but are considerably larger and still more highly 

 colored as described in the color notes on the following page. These 

 specimens in consequence have a general fasces very different from 

 that of typical fasciatus. 



Type: 9 ; Pennsylvania. (M. Acrelius.) [De Geer Collection.] 



We here describe a female from Philadelphia, Pa., taken August 

 22, 1898, as this city was probably the exact locality at which the 

 type was captured. 



Size large for the genus, form compact; head rather large, full 

 and rounded, about as wide as the pronotum. Maxillary palpi with 

 penultimate joint about half as long as terminal joint, the latter 

 expanding very gently distad, gently obliquely truncate. Eyes 

 broad-ovate, moderately protruding. Pronotum with length con- 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



tained about one and four-tenths times in greatest (caudal) dorsal 

 width, narrowing slightly in the cephalic portion. Tegmina nearly 

 as long as the caudal femora, apex of same dorsal in position, distal 

 margin of dorsal field rotundato-rectangulate, longitudinal veins 

 rather conspicuous, cross-veinlets faint. Wings very long, twice as 

 long as tegmina. Supra-anal plate very short and strongly 

 transverse, sharply and suddenly depressed mesad, the caudal 

 margin almost straight but slightly produced mesad, separated 

 by a pronounced transverse fold from the supra-anal plate, which 

 plate is shield-shaped. Cerci long, evenly tapering, thickly 

 covered with hairs. Ovipositor very long, longer than caudal 

 femora, rigid, with a scarcely perceptible arcuation, apex of same 

 very narrowly sublanceolate enlarged with that portion formed by 

 the dorsal valves armed, the upper margin dentate, these teeth 

 regular, heavy, sharply cut, but with their immediate apices blunt. 

 Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, rectangulate-emarginate mesad with 



Fig. 3. — Nemobius fasciatus. Ovipositor. (Greatly magnified.) 



the margins broadly rounded.-^ Caudal femora with greatest 

 (meso-cephalic) width contained about three times in length. 



A male bearing the same data as the female here described affords 

 the additional characters given below. 



Size very slightly smaller, proportions much as in female. The 

 tegmina are translucent and when in repose the dorsal fields are 

 hemi-elliptical in outline. Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, narrowing 

 evenly but considerably caudad. The proximo-internal spine of the 

 caudal tibia specialized as described under Morphological Notes in the 

 generic discussion of the present paper. 



The brachypterous form of the present species differs in having the 

 apex of the female tegmina at the humeral angle, the distal margin 

 of the dorsal field roundly obhque, arcuato-truncate, while the sutural 

 margin passes into the distal margin without angulation. 



2^ In the present species the shape of the subgenital plate of the female varies 

 from the present type to one similar to that of maculatus. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



Philadelphia, Pa. 

 Specimens here described.^^ ^* 



9 cf 9 cf 



Length of body 11.5 10. 9.5 10.6 



Length of pronotum 2.3 2. 2.4 2.1 



Caudal width of pronotum 3. 2.8 3. 3. 



Length of tegmina 7.4 7. 4.1 6.1 



Length of wings 15 . 14 . 



Length of caudal femur 7.8 7.3 8. 7.6 



Greatest width of caudal femur 2.7 2.4 2.7 2.7 



Length of ovipositor 9.4 8.4 



Oxford, Mass." MacNab's Id., N. S.^s 



9 c? 9 cT 



Length of body 8. 8. 9. 7.2 



Length of pronotum 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.8 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.1 2.3 2.6 2.3 



Length of tegmina 3.8 4.9 3.7 4.4 



Length of wings 



Length of caudal femur 6. 5.7 6.6 5.7 



Greatest width of caudal femur .1.9 1.8 2.1 2. 



Length of ovipositor 6.8 7. 



Specimens from Aweme, Man., show characters intermediate 

 between A^. fasciatus abortivus and A", fasciatus. 



The upper dotted line includes all of the specimens of A^. fasciatus 

 abortivus. 



The lower dotted line separates the majority of specimens of 

 N. fasciatus socius (on the left) from the majority of specimens of 

 A^. fasciatus (on the right). 



The diagonal line indicates the squares in which the length of the 

 ovipositor is equal to that of the caudal femur. 



From the table on page 413 the relative measurements of 

 the ovipositor and caudal femur of fasciatus and its geographic 

 races are shown to be of use as a character, though exceedingly 

 variable. Typical fasciatus has the ovipositor usually considerably 



25 These specimens are examples of the largest macropterous form of the present 

 species, from which form the type was unquestionably described as De Geer's 

 figure shows. 



26 These specimens are among the largest of the series of brachypterous 

 specimens which we have before us. 



" These are among the smallest of the series of specimens which we have before 

 us from the New England States. 



2s The specimens from Nova Scotia are typical of the species over the extreme 

 northeastern portion of its range. 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



413 



Fig. 4.- 



-Rclative length of ovipositor and caudal femur in Nemohius fasciatus 

 and its races. The letters indicate the following localities: 



Nemobius fasciatus abortivus Caudell. 



A. Calgary, Alberta.' C. Aweme, Manitoba. 



B. Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan. D. Portal, North Dakota. 



Nemobius fasciatus (De Geer) . 



E. MacNab's Island, Xova Scotia. 



F. Pequaming, Michigan. 



G. Duluth, Minnesota. 

 H. Oxford, Massachusetts. 

 I. Marion, Mass. 



J. Pine Bluffs, Wyoming. 



K. Lincoln, Nebraska. 



L. La Junta, Colorado. 



M. St. Louis, Missouri. 



N. Castle Rock, Pennsylvania. 



O. Tinicum Island, Pa. 



P. Sulphur Springs, North Carolina. 



Q. Mount Pisgah, N. C. 



R. Thompson's JVIills, Georgia. 



Nemobius fasciatus socius Scudder. 



S. Raleigh, North Carolina. Y. Brunswick, Ga. 



T. Fayetteville, N. C. Z. Thomasville, Ga. 



U. Dallas, Texas. a. Pablo Beach, Florida. 



V. Galveston, Tex. b. Lakeland, Fla. 



W. Yemassee, South Carolina. c. Tampa, Fla. 

 X. HomervUle, Georgia. 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



longer than the caudal femur and seldom under seven millimeters 

 in length. The southern geographic race, fasciatus socius, has the 

 ovipositor as short as or shorter than the caudal femur with scarcely 

 an exception, while the northern prairie race, fasciatus abortivus, is 

 distinguished from fasciatus by the usually shorter and differently 

 shaped ovipositor and almost invariably shorter caudal femur. The 

 letters indicating the distribution of fasciatus socius are S to c, while 

 those of fasciatus abortivus are A to D. 



Color Notes. — The specimens here described are typical in coloration 

 of the majority of specimens of the species found about Philadelphia. 

 General color of head and pronotum clove brown shading to very 

 dark mummy brown on the abdomen, limbs, and exposed portions of 

 the wings. Head with occiput very obscurely striped with four 

 longitudinal lines which are very slightly lighter than the rest of the 

 occiput, eyes very dark mummy brown. Maxillary palpi mummy 

 brown, the terminal segment darker. Tegmina of male translucent 

 mummy brown, in the almost transparent portions shading to burnt 

 umber, discoidal vein ivory white, this marking being so narrow as 

 to be inconspicuous; of female prouts brown, the longitudinal veins 

 Vandyke brown and the proximal portion of the intermediate channel 

 Vandyke brown. The postocular portion of the gense and ventral 

 margin of the lateral lobes of the pronotum are yellowish, these 

 ye,llowish markings very obscure. Ovipositor very dark Vandyke 

 brown. 



A few individuals from the same region are to be found of lighter 

 coloration and in these the color pattern of the species is much more 

 pronounced. In such the dorsal portion of the head, the eyes, and 

 dorsum of the pronotum are prouts brown, the occipital stripes are 

 distinct, while the interantennal protuberance is pale burnt umber 

 shading to russet on the mouth parts. The last joint of the maxillary 

 palpi is russet in these specimens for the proximal third, shading in 

 the remaining portion to very dark brown. The upper portion of the 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum is very dark brown, while the ventral 

 margin of the same is prouts brown. The limbs and ventral surface 

 of the abdomen are russet. This russet shade is frequently found to 

 extend to the dorsal surface of the abdomen in such specimens of 

 light coloration, when this is not the case that portion of the abdomen 

 is clove brown. 



Interesting differences in coloration of series of the present species 

 are found over its entire range of distribution, the more important 

 of which are here considered. A series of large pale individuals from 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



Dallas, Tex., is before us, upon which Scudder based his N. canus; 

 these specimens belong to the race fasciatus socius, while specimens 

 from places in the region where fasciatus and fasciatus socius appar- 

 ently intergrade, Raleigh, N. C, and Crawford County, Ind., are 

 of the same light coloration but somewhat more slender. Specimens 

 oi fasciatus proper from Long Island, N. Y., and Falls Church, Va., 

 are equally pale, being russet in general coloration, but none are as 

 robust as the individuals from Dallas, Tex. In all of these specimens 

 as well as in a somewhat darker but very brilliantly colored series 

 from Thompson's Mills, Ga., the males have the coloration of the 

 discoidal vein more pronounced, while the area between this and the 

 free veins of the lateral field is seal brown proximad and of that 

 coloration to the end of the tegmen between the discoidal and medi- 

 astine veins. It is interesting to note that in such pale specimens of 

 the present species as well as in those of very dark coloration the 

 longitudinal stripes of the occiput are absent, while these stripes 

 become more and more pronounced between the extremes of light 

 and dark coloration until in the absolute intermediates-^ they are 

 usually well defined. 



Very dark individuals of fasciatus proper are to be found in almost 

 every series, but this is much more pronounced in individuals from 

 the more northern points of the species' distribution. In the material 

 before us this is very noticeable in a series from Oxford, Mass., which 

 are for the greater part small in size and very dark. In these speci- 

 mens the light portion of the lateral lobes is much reduced and ob- 

 scured while in the darkest specimens of the series it is absent, the 

 yellowish coloration of the discoidal vein is scarcely perceptible to 

 the naked eye. The few lighter specimens in this series, however, 

 have the occipital stripes more pronounced than in any other speci- 

 mens of the species before us. 



Every conceivable intergradation between the extremes of the 

 species is to be found in the present series not only in coloration, but 

 also in size and in length of tegmina, wings, caudal femur, and ovi- 

 positor. 



Distribution.— Typicsd fasciatus is to be found from Prince Edward 

 Island across the Dominion of Canada westward to the prairie region 

 in Manitoba, where its place is occupied by fasciatus abortivus. 

 South of this countrj^ that geographic race gives place again to 



29 The intermediates here referred to are usually few in number, as by far the 

 majority of individuals of the species approach the dark extremes more or less 

 closely. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF fJune, 



fasciatus proper in northern North Dakota and Montana, and true 

 fasciatus is to be found as far west as the Yellowstone National Park 

 in Wyoming, to the base of the Rockies in Colorado, and a few 

 specimens have been taken at Spring Lake, Utah. Its southern 

 limits are marked by the fall line in the southeastern United States, 

 and west of the Appalachians it is found as far south as Tennessee, 

 Arkansas, Oklahoma, and, without doubt, the Panhandle of Texas, 

 to Roswell and Albuquerque, N. Mex. South of this as far west as 

 the dry country of Texas, fasciatus is supplanted by the geographic 

 race, fasciatus socius. 



Biological N'otes. — The present species is one of the most abundant 

 of the North American Gryllidse and is often found in great numbers 

 over the greater part of its range. It flourishes not only in grassy 

 uplands, but also in meadows and in the heavy grasses about marshes 

 and swamps. It is also frequent along the borders of woodlands 

 and is to be met with in open forests where the ground is somewhat 

 grassy. It is particularly noticeable in areas of lush grasses about 

 damp places in the northernmost portions of its range, where, as has 

 been found in almost all insect life of the north, as numerous species 

 disappear, those remaining and having a more northerly distribution 

 are found in enormous numbers. The present species does not 

 flourish under arid conditions, but its distribution is often extended 

 into the arid west in many places where river bottoms and other 

 watered spots afford a green vegetation well suited to this insect. 



The majority of specimens seen of fasciatus are brachypterous, al- 

 though at times macropterous individuals appear in countless num- 

 bers, and are then conspicuous, particularly about the lights at night. 

 The writer has seen one flight which occurred in the fall of 1911 at 

 Chestnut Hill, Phila., when, shortly after nightfall, the ground under 

 the arc lights in that portion of Philadelphia swarmed with these 

 crickets, although usually few if any specimens are to be found at 

 that place attracted to light. 



The song of the insect is shrill and has been described as "tiiii- 

 tiiii-tiiii" or " ti-ti-ti-ti-ti-ti-ti-ti " by Allard, and as "creeeeeee" or 

 " creee-creee-creee-creee " by Rehn and Hebard. Piers states that 

 "the stridulation is produced by lifting the wing covers about forty- 

 five degrees above the abdomen and then shuffling them together, 

 producing a sound resembling the word plee-e-e-e plee-e-e-e plee-e-e-e 

 or cree-e-e-e." 



Morphological Notes. — An interesting variation in size is found in 

 the present species. It appears that the insect decreases in size 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



northward from the centre of its distribution, but that occasional 

 series of unusually small size are sometimes found in the central 

 portion of its range. These smaller series would seem at first glance 

 to belong to a different species, but close examination fails to disclose 

 valid characters of any sort, which is also true of the occasional light 

 colored specimens which have from time to time been referred to 

 canus. 



Synonymy. — The synonymy of the present species is much involved 

 owing to the fact that it is one of the oldest recognized species of 

 North American Orthoptera as well as one of the most abundant and 

 variable over the greater portion of its range. 



In 1775, Fabricius described Acheta hospes from America, this 

 being a synonym based on the macropterous form oi fasciatus. 



Harris^°, in 1841, described the brach3^pterous form of the present 

 species as Acheta vittata, which name since that time has been exten- 

 sively used to designate the brachypterous form of the insect. 



Scudder, in 1862, most unfortunately recorded macropterous 

 specimens of the present species as N(emobius) exiguus, confusing 

 Say's Acheta exigua with fasciatus, which former species belongs to 

 the genus Anaxipha. This mistake was repeated by Glover in 1872, 

 and the introduction of that name in the nomenclature of the genus 

 Nemohius resulted in the greatest confusion in the work of many 

 subsequent authors. 



In 1896, Scudder described Nemohius utahensis, the type of which'''' 

 cannot be distinguished from the brachypterous form of fasciatus, 

 while since that time specimens of the present species have been 

 referred by various authors to Nemohius utahensis, canu^-, maculatus, 

 ■cubensis, palustris, and carolinusP 



Specimens Examined}^ — 641: 273 males, 353 females, and 15 

 nymphs. 



^° In 1835 Harris included in his list of Massachusetts insects Say's manuscript 

 name Acheta servilis based on the macropterous form of fasciatus, but, as there 

 was no accompanying description, that name falls as a nomen nudum. 



^1 We here select as single type a female specimen, taken at Spring Lake, Utah, 

 in July, 1875, and now in the United States National Museum. 



^2 See discussion of this name under the Synonymy of Nemohius fasciatus 

 socius. 



^^ The only other name probably applicable to the present species is Nemohius 

 marginata of Murtfeldt, published in 1893 without description, hence a nomen 

 nudum. 



^' The following abbreviations are used to differentiate the specimens here 

 recorded: Lg., large size; med., medium size; sm., small size; b., brachyp- 

 terous; m., macropterous; pi., pale in coloration; dk., dark in coloration; br., 

 brilliantly colored; maj., majority of specimens; v., very; n., nymph. 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June,. 



Bothwell, Prince Edward Island, Aug. 24, 1912, (B. Long) 1 9 [A. N. S. P.].. 

 Lg. b. 



Souris, P. E. I., Aug. 24, 1912, (B. Long) 2 9 [A. N. S. P. and Hebard Col- 

 lection]. Lg. b. 



St. Andrews, P. E. I., Aug. 26, 1912, (B. Long) 1 9 [A. N. S. P.]. Lg. b. 



Bunbury, P. E. 1., Aug. 28, 1912, (B. Long) 1 9 [A. N. S. P.]. Lg. b. 



Charlottetown, P. E. I., Sept. 1, 1912, (B. Long) 2 cf , 2 9 [A. N. S. P. and 

 Hebard Collection]. Med. b. 



Malpeque Bay, P. E. I., Aug. 29, 1912, (B. Long) 1 cf , 1 9 [Hebard Collec- 

 tion]. Med. b. 



Cape Aylesbury, Malpeque Bay, P. E. L, Aug. 29, 1912, (B. Long) 2 9 [A. N. 

 S. P.]. Med. b. 



MacNab's Island, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Sept. 9, 1903, (Perrin) 1 o^, 1 9 

 [Hebard Collection]. Med. b. 



Chateau Richer, Orit., Sept., 1894, (E. M.Walker) 1 9 [University, of Toronto]. 

 Med. b. 



De Gras.si Point, Lake Simcoe, Ontario, Aug. 21, 13, 15, 1896, 1897, 1904, 

 (E. M. Walker) 3 d' [University of Toronto]. Sm. high colored b., pair lg. b. 

 ^ Isle d'Orleans, Ont., Aug. 24, 1904, (E. M. Walker) 1 cf [University of Toronto]. 

 Sm. high colored b. 



Toronto, Ont., Oct. 8, 1893, (E. M. Walker) 1 d^, 1 9 [University of Toronto]. 

 Sm. b. 



Tobermory, Ont., Aug. 24, 1901, (E. M. Walker) 1 c? 1 9 [University of 

 Toronto]. Sm. high colored b. 



Southampton, Ont., Aug. 20, 1901, (E. M. Walker) 1 9 [Universitv of Toronto]. 

 Sm. pi. b. 



Arner, Ont., Aug. 9, 1901, (E. M. Walker) 2 9 ]University of Toronto]. Both 

 lg., 1 m. 



Mount Washington, New Hampshire, 1 9 [Scudder Collection]. 



White Mountains, N. H., 1 d", 3 9 [Scudder Collection]. 



Franconia, N. H., 3 cf , 3 9 [Scudder Collection]. 



Greylock Mt., Massachusetts, Aug., 1899, (Knab) 1 d", 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Med. dk. b. 



Boston, Mass., (Scudder) 1 cf [Scudder Collection]. 



South Natick, Mass., Oct. 26, 1905, (Morse) 1 d" [Blatchley Collection). Med., 

 br. b. 



Cape Cod, Mass., Sept., (Scudder) 1 9 [Scudder Collection]. 



Oxford, Mass., Oct., 1909, (AUard) 4 c?, 12 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Maj. dk., d d' 

 sm. 9 9 med., all b. 



Marion, Mass., Aug. 30, 1905, (H.) 1 d', 6 9 . Med. somewhat pi. b. 



New Haven, Connecticut, Oct., 1909, (H.) 2 d", 2 9 . dd sm. 9 9 med., 

 all b. 



Glenville, Conn., Aug. 11, 1910, 1 c^, 1 9 , 2 9 n. [Am. Mus. N. H.]. Med. b. 



North Elba, New York, Oct., (Davis) 1 d" [Davis Collection]. Sm. b. 



Black Mtn., Lake George, N. Y., Aug. 21, 22, 23, 30, 1893, (Zabriskie) 2 .^^ 

 4 9 , 1 9 n. [Am. Mus. N. H.]. Med. and sm. dk., but rather highly colored, b. 



Clyde, N. Y., (Wood) 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Lg. b. 



Goshen, N. Y., Sept. 7, 1910, 2 d^, 3 9 [Am. Mus. N. H.]. d & sm. dk. 9 9 

 med., all b. 



De Brue, N. Y., Sept. 14, 1910, (Davis) 1 d', 3 9 [Davis Collection], d" sm. 

 9 9 med., all b. 



Suffern, N. Y., Sept. 17, 1910, 2 c^, 1 9 [Am. Mus. N. H.]. Med. dk. b. 



Nyack, N. Y., 1886, (Zabriskie) 2 9 [Am. Mus. N. H.]. Med. b.; 1 9 [U. S. 

 N. M.]. Lg. b. 



Mosholu, N. Y., 3 d^, 3 9 [Am. Mus. N. H.]. All med, 2 9 m.: Sept. 4, 6, 

 Oct. 18, 1902, 1 d^, 3 9 [Hebard Collection]. Med. b. 



New York, N. Y., (Angus) 2 cT, 9 9 [Am. Mus. N. H.]. Med. and lg. b. 



Montauk, Long Island, N. Y., Sept. 23, 1910, (Davis) 2 d', 1 9 [Davis Col- 

 lection]. 1 d med., others lg., all b. 



Calverton, L. I., Sept. 29, 1910, (Davis) 1 d [Davis Collection]. Sm. b. 



Yaphank, L. I., July, 1909, Sept. 5, 1910, (Davis) 1 d^, 2 9 [Davis Collection]. 

 Lg. b. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 ^ 



Rockaway, L. I., 1 c^ [Am. Mus N. H^j. Med„m. 



' Sti4n Id'^N.'V.^'Augi'S-'i'e; 1905. (Davis) 2 d^, 6 9 [Davis CoUection]. 



"^io^hftilinl-Feknsyly^^^^^ 13, 1906, (B. Long) 1 cT, 1 9 [A. X. S. P.]. 



%^'e. Jamison City, Pai, Sept. .5, 1909, (Davis) 1 cT [Davis Collection]. 



^^cintral, Pa., Sept. 4, 1909, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Collection] Med. b. 

 Greentown, Pa., Sept. 16, 1906, (B. Long 1 9 [A. N. S. P. . Lg. b. 

 Shady Nook, Pa., Aug. 6-7, 1908, (Stone) 1 9 [A. N- S^P.]. Lg. b. 

 Scotrun, Pa. Aug. 11, 1906, (B. Long) 1 9 [A X. S. P.]. Lg. m. 

 Tobyhanna, Pa., Sept. 1, 1903, (H.) 1 d^. Med. b. 

 Stroudsburg, Pa., Sept. 1, 1903, (H.) 1 cf ■ Med b 

 Lehigh Gap, Pa., Oct. 5, 1903, (G. Greene) 1 9 [A. N . S. P.]^ Lg. b. 

 Marysville, Pa., Oct. 6, 6 c^, 8 9 [Pa. St. Dept. Zool.] Med. b. 

 Rociville, Pa., July 29, 1 c^ n., 1 9 n. [Pa St. Dept. ZooL] 

 Harrisburg, Pa., Aug. 16, 19, .30 2 ^, 2 9 [Pa. St Dept. Zool.]. Med. b. 

 Enola, Pa., Oct. 13, 8 cf , 5 9 [Pa St. Dept. Zool.]. Med. b. 

 CamphiU, Cumberland Co., Pa., Oct. 19 1 c^ [Pa. St Dept. Zool.]. Med. b. 

 Philadelphia, Pa., Aug. 22, 1898, (R.) 1 c^, 1 9; Aug. 1, 1901, (R.) 1 9. 



^ cSnwells, Pa., Oct., 1906, (R. and H.) 2 o^ 1 9 . 1 c? sm., pair v. lg. rather 



^^^Chesmut Hill, Pa., July 8, 1911, (H.) 3 c?, 3 9 . Lg. b. 



Mount Airv, Pa., Sept. 18, 1903, (H.) 1 cf • Lg. m. r^ „ ,• ^ 



Overbrook, Pa., Sept. 8, 1912, (G. Greene) 1 c?, 1 9 [Greene Collection]. 



^^Pink Hill, Delaware Co., Pa., July 9, 1908, (R. and H.) 3 9 n pL 

 Swirthmore Pa Sept. 13, 1906, (Cresson Jr.) 1 9 A. A. S. P.). Lg. b. 

 CasTle Rock, Delaware Co., Pa.', Sept. 19, 1909 (R. and H.) 3 o^, 6 9 ; Sept. 



9 IQT^ (G Greene) 1 d" [A. N. S. P.]. Med. b. 



''CHili:CheXW,pi.,Sept.l9>08,(R^^a^^^^^^ Lg b 



Tinicum Id., Pa., Oct. 20, 1901, (G. Greene) 1 c? [A. N. fe. P.]; Sept. 9, 19, 



1904, 1908, (R. and H.) 12 cf, 23 9. Lg., all b. except 1 m. 9 . 

 Cameron Co., Pa., Oct., 190.5, (Fowler) 1 9 l^-^JJj^ ^ed. b 

 Diamond Valley, Huntingdon Co Pa Sept^ 10, 190.o (R.) 8 o^ 9 9^ Lg^b- 

 Chestnut Ridge, Westmoreland Co., Pa., (Brugger) 1 d^, 1 9 [A. N. S. P.]. 



^^Palisades, New Jersey, Aug. 25, (Davis) 1 c? [p^yis Collection]. V. sm. b. 

 Newark, N. J., Sept. 11, 1880, (Rockwood) 1 9 [U- S. N. MJ^. Lg. b. 

 Bear Swamp, Ramapo Hills, N. J., Oct. 8, 1909, (Davis) 1 cT [Davis Collec- 



^'"sindy Hook, N. J., (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Collection] Lg b. 



New Brunswick, N. J., Oct. 6, 11, 2 d^, 9 9 [Am Mus N. H.]^ Med. b. 

 Jamesburg, N. J., Sept. 27, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Collection^. Sm. b 

 Trenton, N. J., Aug. 6, 1911, (Davis) 1 c^, 1 9 n. [Davis CoUection]. d^ sm. 



^' Whifesville, N. J., Sept. 22, 1907, (R.) 1 o^, 19. Med. rather pi b. 



Lakehurst, N. J., Aug. 17, 18, Sept. 3, 4, 5, 14, 15, Oct. 3 6, 12, 18, 31, 190/ 

 (Davis) 15 d^, 5 9 [Davis Collection], c^ c^ v. sm. and br., 9 9 med. only 



'"'^Medford, N. J., Sept. 7, 1902, (St^ne), 1 d^ tf Nf S- P-]- Lg- b- 

 Riverton N. J., Sept. 11, 1904, (G. Greene) 1 cT [A- N- S. P.]. Lg. b. 

 Sumner, N. J., Oct. 15, 1906, (B. Long) 1 d^, 1 9 [A. N. S. P.]. Sm. and med. 



^'Atsion, N. J., Oct. 8, 1903, (H.) 2 c?, 1 9 . Med. b., 1 9 sm. br. 



Stafford's Forge, N. J., Sept. 16, 1905, (H.) 3 cT, 3 9 ; Aug. 18, 26, 31, 1907, 

 OS 09 (R ) 3 d^, 1 9 • Rather sm. b., 2 d^ br. ^ .^ , r. l u 



Near West Cr;ek,N. J., Sept. 6, 1903, (R.) 1 d^ [A. N. S. P.]. Sm. br. b. 




■ 420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Ocean View, N. J., Sept. 5, 1907, Aug. 11, 1908, (Fox) 1 c^, 2 9 [A. X. S. P.]. 

 Med. b., cf br. 



Anglesea, N. J., Sept., 1 9 [Hebard Collection]. Med. dk. b. 



Cape May Co., N. J., Aug., 1910, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Collection]. Lg. b. 



Mount Pleasant, N. J., Sept. 7, 1908, (Fox) 1 9 [A. N. S. P.]. Sm. br.-b. 



Cold Spring, N. J., Aug. 31, 1910, (Davis) 2 9 [Davis Collection]. Lg. b. 



Delaware, 1 9 [A. N. S. P.]. Lg. b. 



Chestertown, Maryland, Aug. 3, 10, 13, 20, 23, 1899, 1901, 04, (Vanatta) 7 cf, 

 7 9 [A. N. S. P.]. 1 9 pi., all med. b. 



Beltsville, Md., Sept. 26, 1911, (Davis) 1 d' [Davis CoUection]. Med. br. b- 



Montgomery Co., Md., Sept. 2.5, 1911, (Davis) 1 d" [Davis Collection]. Med- 

 br. b. 



Plummer's Island, Md., Sept. 2, Oct. 11, 1906, (Caudell) 3 cf , 2 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Pair lg. m., others b. the cf & sm. br. 



Hyattsville, Md., Sept. 17, 1911, (Davis) 3 cf , 1 9 [Davis Collection]. Med. 

 dk. b. 



Aurora, West Virginia, Aug., (Hirchman) 1 cf, 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Sm. br. 

 b., 9 pi. 



Washington, D. C, 1 cf [Hebard Collection]. Sm. b.; Sept. 20, 1911, (Davis) 

 1 cf [Davis Collection]. Med. dk. m.; Oct. 6, 1880, 3 9 [U. S. N. M.]; Sept. 9, 

 Oct. 16, 1909, Nov. 8, 13, 1911, 12, (Caudell) 1 cf , 7 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Lg. med. 

 and sm. b. 



Fairfax Co., Virginia, Sept. 21, 1911, (Davis) 3 a" [Davis Collection]. Sm. 

 br. b. 



Falls Church, Va., Sept. 4, Oct. 9, 1906, (Caudell) 9 cf , 8 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Med. and sm. br. b. 



Rosslyn, Va., Oct. 14, (Caudell) 1 cf [U. S. N. M.]. Med. br. b. 



Bayville, Va., July 19, 1908 (R.) 1 9 . Lg. b. 



Jefferson, North Carolina, Aug., 1907, (Sherman) 1 9 [Coll. N. C. Dept. Agr.]. 

 Med. b. 



Cranberry, N. C, Oct. 2, 1907, (Sherman) 1 9 [Coll. N. C. Dept. Agr.]. 

 Med. b. 



Grandfather Mtn., N. C, Sept. 11, 1908, (Metcalf) 3 9 [Coll. N. C. Dept. 

 Agr.]. Med. b. 



Blowing Rock, N. C, Sept., 9, 10, 1908, (Metcalf) 3 cf , 2 9 [Coll. N. C. Dept. 

 Agr.]. cf cf sm., 1 br. b.; 9 9 med. b. 



Black Mts., N. C, Aug. 16-31, Sept., 1900, (BeutenmuUer) 2 cf , 1 9 [Am. Mus. 

 N. H.]. Med. br. b. 



Asheville, N. C, Sept. 24, 1904, (H.) 2 cf , 5 9 . Med. br. b. 



Mt. Pisgah, N. C, Oct. 1, 1904, (H.) 5 cf , 2 9 . Med. rather br., but 1 b. 



Balsam, N. C, Sept. 15-18, 1908, (Metcalf) 1 cf , 2 9 [Coll. N. C. Dept. Agr.]. 

 Med. b. 



Waynesville, N. C, Sept. 19, 1908, (Metcalf) 1 d^, 2 9 [CoU. N. C. Dept. 

 Agr.]. Med. b. 



Atlanta, Georgia, July 29, 1910, 2 d" [Collection State of Ga.]. Med. m. 



Thompson's MiUs, Ga., Oct., 1909, (AUard) 10 d^, 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Lg. v. 

 br. b. 



Decatur, Alabama, (Shimek) 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. Med. m. 



Pequaming, Michigan, July 21, 28, 31, Aug. 1, 5, 8, 9, 30, 1903, 04, (H.) 8 (^, 

 6 9 . All sm. and dk. but one 9 pi. ; all but one pair b. 



La Salle Isle, Mich., Aug., 1899, (Blatchley) 1 d', 1 9 [Blatchley Collection.] 

 Sm. dk. b. 



Duluth, Minnesota, Aug., 1906, (Stone) 3 cf , 17 9 [A. N. S. P.]. Med., 3 cf , 

 13 9 m. 



Beaver Dam, Wisconsin, Aug. 28, 1906, (W. E. Snyder) 3 d" [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Med. dk. m. 



Sheridan, Indiana, Aug. 20, 1907, (Caudell) 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Lg. b. 



Buckeye Lake, Ohio, Sept. 28, 1912, 1 d" [Ohio State Univ. Collection]. 



Crawford County, Ind., Aug. 30, Sept. 4, Oct. 9, 1900, 1902, (Blatchley) 2 d". 

 3 9 [U. S. N. M. and Blatchley Collection]. Lg. very pi. b. 



Ogle County, Illinois, 1 9 [Scudder Collection]. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



Chicago, 111., Sept. 9, 1903, (H.) 1 d^, 1 o . Med. b. 



Moline, 111., Aug. 24, 26, (McNeill) 1 o^, 1 9 [Scudder Collection]. 



Urbana, 111., Oct. 1, 1904, (Knab) 2 cf , 1 ? [U. S. N. M.]. All b., pair med., 

 one sm. 



Effingham, 111., Aug. 29, 1904, 1 d' n. [Hebard Collection]. Lg. pi. 



Dalla.s County, Iowa, Aug., (Allen) 1 d^ [Scudder Collection]. 



St. Louis, Mis.souri, Aug. 27, Sept. 4, 1904, (Heink; H.) 4 d", 9 9 [Hebard 

 CoUection]. All med. b. 1 9 m.; Aug. 8, Oct. 22, 1875, 76, 5 9 [U. S. X. M.]. 

 Lg. b. 



Nashville, Tennessee, (Shimek) 6 d", 1 9 [Hebard Collection]. Med. mod. 

 pi. b. 



Chattanooga, Tenn., (Shimek) 4 d^ [Hebard Collection]. Med. mod. pi. b. 



Bismarck, North Dakota, Aug. 9, 188.5, 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. 

 Med. mod. pi. b. 



Billings, Montana, July 28. 1909, (R. and H.) 1 d^, 2 9 n. o^ med. dk. b. 



Mammoth Hot Springs, Y. N. P., Wyoming, Aug. 5, 1904, (H.) 2 cf , 2 9 

 Med. dk. b. 



Upper Geyser Basin, Y. N. P., Wyo., Aug. 7, 1904, (H.) 1 d", 1 9 . Med. dk. b. 



Big Horn Mts., Wyo., Aug., 1894, (Bruner) 1 d' [Hebard Collection]. Med. 

 dk. b. 



Pine Bluffs, Wyo., (Bruner) 2 d", 6 9 fHebard Collection]. Med. b. 



Glen, Nebraska, Aug., 190.3, (Bruner) i d" [Hebard Collection]. Med. dk. b. 



West Point, Nebr., Aug.-Oct., 1880-1901, 15 &, 21 9 [U. S. N. M., Hebard 

 Collection]. All med., 1 d^, 5 9 m. 



North Platte, Nebr., July 28, 1910, (R. and H.) 1 d", 1 d' n., 1 9 n. d med. b. 



Sidney, Nebr., 1 9 [Hebard Collection]. Med. pi. b. 



Lincoln, Nebr., July 14-Sept. 3, 1889-1909, (Bruner), 4 o^, 13 9 [Hebard 

 Collection ex Bruner]. All med. mod. pL, 2 d^, 10 9 m. 



Falls City, Nebr., Aug. 30, 1910, 1 o" [Davis Collection]. Med. dk. b. 



Fairview, Kansas, Aug., 1904, (Isely) 1 d", 2 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Lg., 19 m. 



Topeka, Kan., (Cragin) 1 d" [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. Lg. b. 



W^ichita, Kan., July 23, 1904, (Lselv) 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Lg. h. 



Dodge City, Kan., Sept. 13, 1909, (H.) 1 d', 2 9 . Lg. b. 



Barber Co., Kan., (Cragin) 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. Lg. b. 



Ft. Collins, Colorado, Aug. 10, 1901, (Caudell) 1 d", 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Med. b 



Boulder, Colo., Oct. 7, 20, (Cockerell) 2 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 1 large and 1 med. b. 



La Junta, Colo., Sept. 11, 1909, (R. and H.) 2 9 . Med. m. 



Montevista, Colo., Aug. 13, 1901, (Caudell) 1 d [U. S. N. M.]. Med. b. 



Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13, 1904, (H.) 1 d. Med. dk. b. 



Spring Lake, Utah, July, 1875, 1 d", 2 9 , 1 d" n. Type, paratypes, N. utahensis 

 Sc. [U. S. N. M., Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. Med. b. 



Albuquerque, New Mexico, Sept. 14, 1907, (H.) 1 9 . Med b. 



Roswell, N. AL, Aug., 1902, (Cockerell) 2 9 [A. N. S. P.]. Lg. m. 



Nemobius fasciatus socius Scudder. 



1862. N[etnohius\ fasciatus Scudder, Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., VII p 431 



(In part.) [Charleston, S. C] 

 1869. Nemobius fasciatus Walker, Cat. Dermap. Saltat. Br. Mus., I, p. 56 



(In part.) [St. Johns Bluff, Fla.] 

 1874. Nemobius fasciatus Scudder, Hitch. Rept. Geol. N. H., I, p. 365. 



(In part.) [Louisiana; Texas.] 

 1877. Nemobius socius Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XIX, p. 37. 



(Original de.scription.) [Georgia.] 

 1894. Nemobius fasciatus Ashmead, Ins. Life, VII, p. 25. [Utica, 



Miss.] 

 1896. Nemobius canus Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, pp. 100, 103. 



(Description.) [Dallas, Tex., and Texas.] 

 1896. Nemobius socius Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, pp. 100, 103. 



(In part.) [Sanford and Charlotte Harbor, Fla.; New Orleans, La.; 



Gulf coast of Texas.] 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



1896. Nemohius aterrimus Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. 8oc., IV, pp. 100, 105. 



(In part.) (Description of cf.) [Jacksonville, Fla.] 

 1896. Nemohius canus Scudder, Psyche, VII, p. 4.32. (New key.) 



1896. Nemohius socius Scudder, Psyche, VII, p. 432. (New key.) 



1897. Nemohius hastatus Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, pp. 221, 222. 

 (Description.) [Mexico City at 8,190 ft.] 



1903. Nemohius fasciatus Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, pp. 808, 

 809. (In part.) [Victoria, Tex. Large numbers at light.] 



1905. Nemohius maculatus Rehn and Hebard (not of Blatchley, 1900), 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 799. [Thomasville, Ga.] 



1905. Nemohius socius Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, 

 p. 800. [Thomasville, Ga.] 



1905. Nemohius socius Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 

 p. 50. [Tampa, Fla.] 



1906. Nemohius fasciatus vittatus Hart, Ent. News, XVII, p. 159. [Brazos 

 County, Tex.] 



1906. Nemohius socius Hart, Ent. News, XVII, p. 159. [College Station, 

 Brazos River Bottoms and Galveston, Tex.] 



1907. Nemohius socius Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, 

 p. 316. [Pablo Beach, Gainesville, Bronson and Cedar Keys, Fla.] 



1908. [Nemohius] fasciatus Brimley, Ent. News, XIX, p. 21. [Raleigh, 

 N. C. Open fields.] 



1908. [Nemohius] canus Brimley, Ent. News, XIX, p. 21. [Raleigh, N. C. 

 Pine woods.] 



1909. Nemohius fasciatus Tucker, Ent. News, XX, p. 297. [Piano, Tex.] 

 1911. Nemohius fasciatus socius Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



PhUa., 1910, p. 596. [Bainbridge, Ga.] 

 1911. Nemohius fasciatus socius Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila., 1910, p. 647. [Raleigh and New Berne, N. C] 

 1911. Nemohius canus Sherman and Brimley, Ent. News, XXII, p. 391. 



[Raleigh, N. C] 



1911. Nemohius fasciatus socius Sherman and Brimlev, Ent. News, XXII, 

 p. 391. [Raleigh, N. C] 



1912. Nemohius fasciatus socius Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1912, p. 273. [Miami, Fla.] 



This geographic race can be distinguished from typical fasciatus 

 solely by the proportions of the caudal femur and ovipositor; over its 

 entire range there is an increase in the robustness of the caudal femur 

 and in the female a decrease in the length of the ovipositor, which, when 

 compared in length with the caudal femur, is found to be as short as 

 or shorter than that member. So few exceptions are to be found to 

 this that, in spite of the close affinity of these southern individuals 

 to fasciatus in all other respects, they should certainly be considered 

 to belong to a definite geographic race. 



Type: 9 ; Georgia. [Scudder Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Agrees perfectly with typical fasciatus, 

 except that the caudal femora are proportionately longer and heavier 

 and the ovipositor shorter, in consequence the length of the caudal 

 femur is equal to that of the ovipositor. 



Males from the same State as the type do not differ from males of 

 fasciatus except in their more robust caudal femora, and so great is 

 the size variation in the species that, with no other than this differen- 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



423 



tial character, scattered males unaccompanied by females of this 

 southern geographic race are scarcely separable from those of true 



fasciatus. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Thomasville, Ga. 

 Average of a typical series. 



Length of body 9 . 1 (8 . -10 . ) 



Length of pronotum 1.8 (1.7- 2. ) 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.5 (2.1- 2.7) 



Length of tegmen 5.1 (4.2- 6.1) 



Length of wing 



Length of caudal femur 6.5 (5.8- 7. ) 



Greatest width of caudal femur 2.4 (2. - 2.7) 



Length of ovipositor 



Thomasville, Ga, 

 Average of a typical series, 



Length of body : 9 . 5 ( 8 . 8-10 , 



Length of pronotum. 1.9 ( 1.8- 2 . 



Caudal width of pro- 

 notum 2.6 ( 2.1- 3. 



Length of tegmen 6.2 ( 5.8- 6.7) 



Length of wing 13.8(12.8-15. ) 13.6(13.4-14. ) 



9 9 



9.7 ( 9.1-10. ) 

 1.9 ( 1.8- 2. ) 



2.8 ( 2.4- 3.1) 

 6.3 ( 5.9- 6.9) 



9 

 9.5 



Length of caudal femur 

 Greatest width of cau- 

 dal femur 



Length of ovipositor 



6.6 ( 6.3- 

 2.2 ( 2.1- 



7. ) 7. ( 6.9- 7.2) 



2.4) 



2.5 ( 2.1- 2.7) 

 . 6.5 ( 6. - 6.8) 



Dallas, Texas.^^ 



6.25 



Length of body 9 . 8 



Length of pronotum 2 . 2 



Caudal width of prono- 

 tum 3.4 



Length of tegmen 6 . 6 



Length of wing 



Length of caudal femur 



Greatest width of caudal 



femur 



Length of ovipositor 



9.8 

 2. 



2.7 



5.6 



7 . 

 2.7 



10.9 

 1.9 



3. 



6.4 



14.8 



7.3 



2.6 



9 

 10. 

 2.6 



3.1 

 3.9 



8^6 



3.1 

 8.3 



9 

 10.2 

 2.4 



2.9 



4.8 

 ...^...^ 



2.8 



7.8 



^= The brachypterous individuals from this locality are part of the type series 

 of Scudder's Nemobius canus, while the macropterous specimen bears Scudder's 

 label "N. socius." 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Bronson, Bainbridge, Raleigh, Mexico City, 

 Fla. Ga. N. C. Mex. 



cf 9 d' 9 9 



Length of body 11.1 12. 7.9 7.6 7.7 



Length of pronotum 2. 2.4 1.7 1.8 1.6 



Caudal width of prono- 

 tum 2.9 3.5 2.4 2.4 2.1 



Length of tegmen 6.8 8.4 4.8 4.2 2.6 



Length of wing 14.7 17.6 



Length of caudal femur 7.9 8.9 6.3 6. 5.2 



Greatest width of caudal 



femur 2.6 2.7 2. 2. 2.1 



Length of ovipositor 8.9 5.4 5.2 



The series from Thomasville, Ga., is typical oi fasciatus socius and 

 shows the considerable variabihty in size found in a series of this 

 geographic race from a single locaht}^ The specimens from Dallas, 

 Tex., average larger than any series before us from east of the Appala- 

 chians, but the male specimen from Bronson, Fla., and the female 

 from Bainbridge, Ga., show that the largest individuals from the east 

 considerably exceed in size those from Dallas, Tex. The majority 

 of specimens before us from Raleigh, N. C, are of average size, but 

 the series contains some of the smallest specimens of fasciatus socius 

 before us, and the measurements of these are given above to show that 

 extreme of the race. 



Color Notes. — Specimens from the south Atlantic and Gulf coasts 

 which were taken in damp or marshy situations are without exception 

 very dark brown in coloration. Those from the undergrowth of the 

 pine woods in the south Atlantic States are frequently cinnamon or 

 russet in general coloration, while some of the males taken under such 

 conditions have the markings of typical fasciatus very conspicuous. 

 Individuals taken at various places in the semi-dry interior of Texas 

 are quite as pale as these, but are not so tawny and the males do not 

 have the darker markings so well defined and conspicuous. As in 

 fasciatus, the occipital bars are absent in all very light or very dark 

 specimens while most conspicuous in those which are slightly lighter 

 than the average. 



Distribution. — This geographic race is found over the southeastern 

 United States, the northern limit of distribution being defined by the 

 fall line. West of the Appalachians it is found from the Gulf of 

 Mexico northward to Tennessee, Arkansas, and Oklahoma. These 

 northern limits marking the line of intergradation into typical 

 fasciatus. The most western localities at which fasciatus socius has 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



been taken are Victoria, Sarita, and Brownsville, Tex., and Mexico 

 City. 



Biological Notes. — Though often found in large numbers, this 

 geographic race is seldom met with in the myriads in which true 

 fasciatus is so frequently found. In southern Georgia and along the 

 Gulf coast the insect is to be found adult at all seasons except during 

 the coldest portions of January, February, and ]March, while in 

 southern Florida it is found mature throughout the entire year. 



The series before us indicates that more macropterous individuals 

 are met with in this geographic race than in typical fasciatus. 



Morphological Notes. — The variability of the present species is 

 nowhere more striking than in series of fasciatus socius from various 

 localities. Very light individuals are to be found and others with 

 heads or tegmina of unusual size and shape. The specimens from 

 Dallas, Tex., upon which Scudder based N. canus, are very pale, 

 though but little tinged with russet, and have abnormally large 

 heads. There are many specimens before us which show the un- 

 questionable intergradation from the various series to typical /ascmhis 

 socius and also from one series to the other. 



Synonymy. — In 1896 Scudder described Nemohius canus from a 

 series of six males and ten females of which we here select a male 

 from Dallas, Tex. (Boll.) [Scudder Collection], as the type. We 

 unhesitatingly place this species in the synonymy under fasciatiis 

 socius, from which geographic race it can in no way be separated ; the 

 specimens upon which it was based, including the type here selected, 

 are large and rather pale individuals of fasciatus socius. In his 

 original description Scudder states that it is possibly only a geographic 

 race of fasciatus, remarkable for its cinereous aspect and the striped 

 appearance of the female tegmina. The series before us show that 

 the cinereous aspect is found in pale specimens of both fasciatus and 

 fasciatus socius in varying degrees over their entire range, and the 

 different appearance of the tegmina is solely due to the fact that in 

 light specimens of the present species the dark markings are often 

 conspicuous. 



In the same paper in which Scudder described A^ canus, he also 

 described N . aterrimus. This is a most unfortunate result of careless- 

 ness, for the unique male, which we here select as the type of aterri- 

 mus, is a medium-sized, dark, brachypterous specimen of fasciatus 

 socius, while the unique female belongs to N. cuhensis. A thoroughly 

 brief and unsatisfactory description based on two specimens of dif- 

 ferent species can hardly have been expected to do other than mislead 

 when opportunity was lacking to examine the types. 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JuHG, 



Saussure, in 1897, described Nemohius hastatus, basing that species 

 on a single female from Mexico City.^^ Careful examination of this 

 tjTJe proves it to be a synonym of the present geographic race of 

 fasciatus. The specimen is of exceptionally small size, but Saussure's 

 error was caused by his misconception of De Geer's fasciatus in the 

 same paper, for the specimens which he there regards as that species 

 belong in fact to the very different hrasilieyisis of Walker, and conse- 

 quently he looked upon the specimen under consideration as new. 



Specimens Examined. — 274: 108 males, 157 females, and 9 nymphs. 



Raleigh, North Carolina,^^ July 8 to Dec. 7, 1904-08, (Sherman, Brimley, 

 Wolgum, Bentley) 20 cf, 41 9 [N. C. Dept. Agr., U. S. N. M., Hebard Col- 

 lection]. Nos. sm., maj. med., few Ig., many pi. med.; 1 cf Ig., 4 9 , m. 



New Berne, N. C, July 24, 1908, (R.) 1 d'. Med. b. 



Fayetteville, N. C, Sept. 9, 1911, (R. and H.) 6 cT, 9 9 . Med., 3 cf , 4 9 pL; 

 aUb. 



Hamlet, N. C, late Oct., 1906, (Sherman) 3 cf , 5 9 [N. C. Dept. Agr.]. Med. 

 and Ig. b. 



Lake Waccamaw, N. C, Sept. 8, 1911, (R. and H.) 1 d^, 2 9 . Med. b. 



Wilmington, N. C, Sept. 8, 1911, (R. and H.) 1 cf , 1 9 • Med. dk. b. 



Winter Park, N. C, Sept. 7, 1911, (R. and H.) 1 cf , 4 9 . c^ and 2 9 dk.; 

 all med. b. 



Southport, N. C, Oct., 1906, (Sherman) 1 9 [N. C. Dept. Agr.]. Med. b. 



Smith Id., N. C, Oct., 1906, (Sherman) 1 d" [N. C. Dept. Agr.]. V. sm. b. 



N. end Sullivan Id., South Carolina, Sept. 5, 1911, (R. and H.) 1 d. Med. b. 



Yemassee, S. C, Sept. 4, 1911, (R. and H.) 6 d', 6 9,1 9 n. AU Ig.; 1 9 m. 



Tybee Id., Ga., Sept. 2, 1911, (H.) 1 d. Med. dk. b. 



Brunswick, Ga., Aug. 30, 1911, (H.) 1 c^, 3 9 . Lg. b. 



Cumberland, Id., Ga., Aug. 31, 1911, (R. and H.) 1 9 . V. Ig. m. 



Billy's Id., Okefenokee Swamp, Ga., July, 1912, (Bradley) 1 9 [Cornell Univ. 

 Collection]. Lg. b. 



Homerville, Ga., Aug. 27, 1911, (R. and H.) 4 c^, 8 9 . Lg. b. 



Thomasville, Ga., May 21 to Dec. 11, 1903, (H; for H.) 6 d, 18 9 [Hebard 

 CoUection]. Med.; some pi.; 1 c^ ; 10 9 m.: Mar. 18, 21, 1904, (H.) 4 n. 



Bainbridge, Ga., July 15-27, 1909, Sept. 2-7, 1910, (Bradley) 1 cf , 4 9 [Col- 

 lection State of Ga.]. Pair med., others v. large; all m. 



Georgia, 1 9 Type. [Scudder Collection]. Med. b. 



Atlantic Beach, Florida, Aug. 24, 1911, (R. and H.) 2 cf , 1 9 . Lg. b. 



Pablo Beach, Fla., Aug. 11, 12, 1905, (R. and H.) 2 cT, 4 9 . Lg.; 2 9 m, 



Jacksonville, Fla., (Slosson) 1 cf [Scudder Collection] ; (Pridday) 1 cf. Type, 

 A'', aterrimus Sc. [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. Med. dk. b. 



Gamesville, Fla., Aug. IS, 1905, (R. and H.) 1 9 . Lg. b. 



Bronson, Fla., Aug. 16, 1905, (R. and H.) 1 d^. Lg. m. 

 . Cedar Key, Fla., Aug. 17, 1905, (R. and H.) 1 d^, 1 9 . Med. b. 



Sanford, Fla., 1 d [Scudder Collection]. 



Orlando, Fla., Nov. 15, 1901, (Polk) 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Sm. dk. b. 



Lakeland. Fla., Nov. 8, 1911, (Davis) 5 d', 2 9 [Davis Collection and U. S. 

 N. M.]. Med. b., 1 d m. 



Tampa, Fla., Jan. 16, 1904, (H.) 1 9,1 9 n. Sm. b.; 1 c?, 2 9 [Collection 

 State of Ga.]. Med. dk. m. 



'^ This locality is wronglj'^ given with the original description in the Biologia 

 as Ciudad in Durango. 



3' This large series is of particular interest owing to the great amount of varia- 

 tion shown not only in size, but also in color. As the locaUty would suggest, the 

 present series contains many intermediates between fasciatus and fasciatus socius. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



Sarasota, Fla., Jan. 29, Mar. 1, 1911, (Blatchley) 1 d", 2 9 [Blatchley Collec- 

 tion]. Med. b. 



Charlotte Harbor, Fla., 1 9 [Scudder Collection]. 



Fort Myers, Fla., Mar. 12, 1911, (Blatchley) 1 d^ [Blatchlev Collection]. 

 Med. b. 



Miami, Fla., Mar. 28, 1910, (H.) 1 cf . Med. dk. m. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10, 12, 1912, (R. and H.) 1 cf . Sm. dk. b. 



New Orleans, Louisiana, Nov.-Dec, 1882, (Shufeldt) 1 cf [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Med. b. 



De Kalb, Texas, Sept. 1, 1904, (C. R. Jones) 1 cf [U. S. N. M.]. Med. pi. m. 



Dallas, Tex., (Boll) 5 o", 7 9 , 2 — n.^s [Scudder Collection, Hebard Collection 

 ex Bruner, U. S. N. M.]. Med. and Ig., pi.; 1 d" m. 



College Station, Tex., Dec. 27-29, 1905, (Hart) 5 d', 2 9 [111. State Lab. Nat. 

 Hi.st.] Med. b. 



Beaumont, Tex., July 23, 1912, (H.) 10 d', 8 9. Med., 5 d', 4 9 m. (at 

 light). 



Columbus, Tex., June 10, 1879, 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Med. pi. b. 



Galveston, Tex., July 19-21, 1912, (H.) 9 cf , 7 9 ; Jan. 3, 1906, (Hart) 1 9 

 [111. State Lab. Nat. Hist.]. Med. b. 



Virginia Point, Tex., July 21, 1912, (H.) 1 d^. Med. b. 



Webster, Tex., Julv 19, 1912, (H.) 1 9 . Med. b. 



Rosenberg, Tex., July 25-26, 1912, (H.) 19. Lg. b. 



Victoria, Tex.. June, 1902, (Caudell) 1 c?, 2 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Med. pi. m. 



Sarita, Tex., Dec. 5, 1911, (Hart) 1 9 [111. State Lab. Nat. HLst.]. Lg. dk. b. 



Brownsville, Tex., Julv 31-Aug. 5. 1912, (H.) 1 9 n.; (Townsend) 1 o". Med. m. 



Mexico City, Mexico, 8,190 feet, (Forrer) 1 9 . Type, N. hastatus Sauss. [Br. 

 Mus.]. V. sm. dk. b. 



Nemobias fasciatus abortivus Caudell. 



1904. Nemobius fasciatus var. abortivus Caudell, Can. Ent., XXXVI, p. 248. 

 (Original description.) [Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan.] 



1906. Nemobius fasciatus var. abortivus E. M. Walker, Can. Ent., XXXVIII, 

 p. 59. [Common everywhere on prairies, Manitoba, Assiniboia (Sas- 

 katchewan), Alberta.] 



1908. Nemobius fasciatus abortivus Caudell. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXXIV, 

 p. 81. [Calgary, Medicine Hat, Moose Jaw, Canada; Portal, N. Dak.] 



1910. Nemobius fasciatus abortivus E. M. Walker, Can. Ent., XLII, p. 355. 

 [Aweme, Elkhorn, Manitoba; Yellow Grass, Moosomin, Vonda, Sas- 

 katchewan.] 



1911. Nemobius fasciatus form abortivus Rehn and Hebard, Ent. News, 

 XXII, p. 10. [Aweme, Manitoba.] 



1911. Nemobius fasciatus abortivus E. M. Walker, Can. Ent., XLIII, p. 304. 

 [Ft. William, Ont.] 



1912. Nemobius fasciatus abortivus Caudell and Hebai'd, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 168. (Single type fixation.) 



Individuals of the present geographic race of N. fas&iatus are found 

 to differ from typical specimens of the species in their much smaller 

 size, very dark coloration, extreme abbreviation of the tegmina, and, 

 in the female, by differences in the ovipositor, the apex of which is 

 fully as much enlarged but for a less di.stance than in fasciatus, being 

 more obliquely subtruncate, and is provided with more pronounced 

 teeth. 



38 All belong to the type series of the synonymous Neynobius cayius Scudder, 

 1th the exception of the macropterous specimen, which is labelled .V. socius by 



with the exception of the macropterous 

 Scudder. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADExMY OF [June, 



Though resembhng N. maculatus closely in size and somewhat in 

 form, individuals of this race may be separated by the absence of light 

 markings on the head, immaculate and dark coloration, less sharply 

 truncate tegmina in both sexes, more shiny appearance in the males, 

 and different apex of the ovipositor in the females. 



Type: cf ;- Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan. In grass along borders of 

 draw on prairie. August 24, 1903. (Caudell) [U. S. N. M. Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Size smallest of the races of fasciatus, 

 similar to A'', maculatus in size, but form not quite so robust. Head, 

 eyes, and pronotum as in fasciatus. Tegmina not as long as the caudal 

 femur, translucent and rather abruptly rounded distad, though not as 

 sharply truncate as in typical maculatus. Wings absent. Abdominal 

 appendages and first proximal internal spine of caudal tibiae as in 

 fasciatus. Limbs as in fasciatus. 



Allotypic 9 , here selected, bears the same data as the type. 



Description of Allotype. — Size larger, but proportions much as in 

 the type. Tegmina much shorter than the caudal femur, broadly 

 rounded distad, though not as much so as in typical maculatus, 

 longitudinal veins rather conspicuous, cross veinlets faint. Wings 

 absent. Ovipositor long, longer than caudal femur, rigid, with a 

 scarcely perceptible arcuation, apex of same sublanceolate, enlarged 

 for a shorter distance than in fasciatus and more obliquely subtrun- 

 cate than in that species, with that portion formed by the dorsal 

 valves armed, the upper margin dentate, these teeth rather irregular, 

 heavy, and sharply cut. 



Fig. 5. — Xcmobius fasciatus ahortivus. Ovipositor. (Greatly magnified.) 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Allotype. Type. Average of paratypic series. 



9 c^ 9 9 d'd' 



Length of body 9. 7.4 8.2(7.3-9.) 7.3(6.7-8.) 



Length of tegmina 3.5 4.8 3 . 6 (3 . 1-4 . 6) 4 . 9 (4 . 3-5 . 8) 



Length of caudal femur .5.4 5.1 5 . 8 (5 . 4-6 . 2) 5 . 2 (4 . 9-5 . 5) 

 Greatest width of caudal 



femur 1.8 1.7 1.9(1.8-2.1) 1.8(1.7-1.9) 



Length of ovipositor 6.2 6.8(6.2-7.4) 



The above measurements show that when compared with the 

 smallest individuals of fasciatus, the length of the caudal femur of 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



this race averages considerably less, while the length of the ovipositor 

 is also less in the majority of cases. 



The small dark form of fasciatus fomid in eastern Ontario and 

 Michigan, of which Walker speaks,^^ is, as he has stated, but a 

 degenerate and does not, as Caudell has supposed,^"^ belong to the 

 present geographic race. From this it may be separated by the 

 general coloration, which although dark, is not as nearly black as in 

 fasciatus abortivus, and the ovipositor which is exactly as in fasciatus. 

 Intermediates between such individuals and fasciatus abortivus will 

 undoubtedly be found frequently in the area of intergradation be- 

 tween fasciatus and the present geographic race. The individuals 

 from Aweme, Man., before us, do not show the characters which 

 define the geographic race as distinctly as do the specimens from the 

 type locality, all of the other specimens here treated are typical. 



Color Notes. — The males of the present geographic race appear to 

 be shiny black to the naked eye, but under a Zeiss binocular are 

 found to lie shiny dark clove brown in general coloration. The 

 maxillary palpi are darker than in typical fasciatus. The yellow 

 line of the discoidal vein of the males is extremely narrow, and the 

 yellowish markings of the postocular portion of the genae and 

 ventral margin of the lateral lobes are absent or very greatly reduced 

 and obscured in both sexes. The tegmina of the females have the 

 dorsal field sepia in general color with the longitudinal veins tinged 

 with tawny and the median vein distinctly outlined in clove brown, 

 which is also the color of the entire lateral field with the exception 

 of the intermediate channel which is of the same color as the dorsal 

 field. Several of the females of fasciatus abortivus before us have a 

 general coloration which is somewhat less dark, and in these specimens 

 the dorsal surface of the insect approaches sepia with a faint tawny 

 cast and in one or two individuals the pale stripes of the occiput are 

 faintly indicated. 



Distribution. — This geographic race is found over the prairie region 

 of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and Alberta in the Dominion of Canada, 

 and in the adjacent portions of the United States. It has also been 

 taken as far east as Fort William, in extreme western Ontario. 



Biological Notes. — Caudell has found this race plentiful in the grass 

 along the borders of a draw on the prairie at IMoose Jaw, Sask., 

 while Walker states that it is common everywhere on the 

 prairies of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and Alberta. The latter author 



39 Can. Ent., XXXVI, p. 184. 

 " Can. Ent., XXXVI, p. 248. 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunC, 



when at Fort William, Ont., noted that its song differed from that 

 oifasciatus and described it as " a low continuous trill. " No macrop- 

 terous specimens have been taken. 



Specimens Examined. — 48: 19 males, 29 females. 



Aweme, Manitoba, Aug. 8, 24, 25, 30, Sept. 22, Oct. 5, 6, 1904-09, (Criddle) 

 4 cf , 7 9 [Hebard, University of Toronto, and A. N. S. P. Collection]. 



Portal, North Dakota, Aug. 25, 26, 1906, (Caudell) 1 cf , 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 



Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan, Aug. 24, 1903, (Caudell) 9 cf, 14 9, Type, allo- 

 type, paratypes; August, 1906, (Caudell) 4 c?, 4 9 [U. S. N. M., Blatchley and 

 Hebard Collection]. 



Medicine Hat, Alberta, August, 1906, (Caudell) 2 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 



Calgary, Alta., August, 1906, (Caudell) 1 cf , 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 



Nemobius maculatus Blatchley. 



1900. Nemobius maculatus Blatchley, Psyche, IX, pp. 52, 53. (Original 



description.) [Marion and Vigo Counties, Ind. In small numbers.] 

 1903. Nemobius maculatus Blatchley, Orth. of Indiana, pp. 420, 424, 425. 



[Marion and Vigo Counties, Ind. Low open woods, near and under logs.] 



1903. Nemobius confusus Blatchley, Orth. of Indiana, pp. 421, 428, 429. 

 (In part.) (Description of cf ■) [Tippecanoe Lake, Kosciusko County, 

 Ind. Low damp woods.] 



1904. Nemobius maculatus Mead, Dept. Zool. Ent. Ohio State Univ., No. 19, 

 pp. 110, 112. [Franklin County, O.] 



1906. Nemobius maculatus Hart, 111. State Lab. Nat. Hist., Descr. Syn. 



Ins. Coll., II, Orth., p. 89. [Illinois. About logs and dead wood in sparse 



woods and near streams.] 

 1908. [Nemobius] maculatus Brimley, Ent. News, XIX, p. 21. [Raleigh, 



N. C. Mixed woods.] 

 1911. Nemobius maculatus Sherman and Brimley, Ent. News, XXII, p. 391. 



[Raleigh and Jefferson, N. C] 



The long straight ovipositor of the present species having the dorsal 

 margin of its apex obliquely subtruncate and armed with teeth 

 places it at once in the first of the North American subgenera, 

 Allonemobius, of which fasciatus is the type. 



From typical N. fasciatus it is possible to distinguish maculatus by 

 its smaller size and more compact structure, the different markings 

 on the head and maxillary palpi and more mottled general color 

 pattern, the short tegmina which are more quadrate in the male and 

 more nearly squarely truncate in the female, and the shorter more 

 rigid ovipositor which is armed with very sharp teeth. 



From N. griseus it may be distinguished by all the characters 

 which separate that species from all other species of the subgenus. 



A general superficial resemblance to N. amhitiosus is noticeable, 

 but examination at once reveals the many differential characters of 

 that aberrant species. 



Described from one male and nine females from two localities. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Marion County, Indiana, in low 

 open woods. October 6, 1895. (Blatchley.) [Blatchley Collection.] 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



431 



We here describe a female paratype bearing the same data as the 

 type, excepting the date, which is September 10, 1895, in the United 

 States National Museum. 



Size medium for the genus, form robust; head rather large, full 

 and rounded, about as wide as the pronotum. Maxillary palpi of 

 much the same form as in fasciatus, but with 

 joints not quite as much produced as in that 

 species. Eyes broad-ovate, moderately pro- 

 truding. Pronotum, when compared with 

 that of fasciatus, slightly less transverse, 

 narrowing very slightly cephalad. Tegmina 

 not half as long as caudal femur, apex at 

 humeral angle broadly but distinctly obtuse- 

 angulate, sutural margin passes into distal 

 margin with a distinct angulation, longi- 

 tudinal veins rather conspicuous, cross- 

 veinlets very weak. Wings absent. Supra- 

 anal plate and cerci as in fasciatus. Ovi- 

 positor long, equal to the caudal femur in 

 length, rigid, almost straight, apex similar 

 to that of fasciatus, but armed Avith very 

 sharp teeth.*^ Subgenital plate scoop- 

 shaped, caudal margin arcuato-truncate, briefly cleft mesad.'*^ 

 Caudal femora slightly more robust than in fasciatus. 



Fig. 6. — Nemobins macu- 

 lalus. Dorsal view of 

 female here described. 

 (X3.) 



Fig. 7, 



Fig. 8. 



Figs. 7, 8. — Nemobius maculatus. Ovipositor; normal (Fig. 7) and distorted 

 (Fig. 8). (Greatly magnified.) 



A topotypic male taken October 16, 1904, by Blatchley, and in the 

 Blatchley Collection, affords the additional data given below. 



*i The series of specimens before us show that, when the ovipositor has received 

 usage, these teeth become blunt, and in some cases have been worn down until 

 their bases alone remain. 



^ The degree of truncation and division of the subgenital plate is variable in 

 this species as well as in fasciatus. 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Size slightly smaller, proportions much as in the female. The 

 tegmina are translucent, and when in repose the dorsal fields are 

 quadrate in outline, with the caudal margin broadly arcuato-truncate. 

 Subgenital plate as in fasciatus. Proximo-internal spine of caudal 

 tibia as described under Morphological Notes in the generic discussion 

 of the present paper. 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 



Marion County, Ind. 



Paratype. Average of series. 



9 cf cf 9 9 



Length of body 8.3 7 . 3 (6 . 5-8 . 4) 8.3(7.7-9. ) 



Length of pronotum 1.9 1.8 2. (1.9-2.2) 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.7 2 . 5 (2 . 3-2 . 7) 2.7(2.4-2.8) 



Length of tegmen 2.7 3.8 2 . 9 (2 . 5-3 . 1) 



Length of caudal femur 6.1 5.6(5.2-5.9) 6 . 5 (6 . 1-6 . 8) 



Greatest width of caudal femur 2.3 2 . 2 . 4 (2 . 2-2 . 6) 



Length of ovipositor 6 6.4 (5.9-6.8) 



Cabin John Run, Chestnut Hill, 



Md. Pa. 



Average of series. 



d' & 9 9 cf 9 



Length of bodv 7.5(7.-8.) 8.4(7.6-9.1) 8.2 9. 



Length of pronotum 1.8(1.7-1.9) 1.9(1.8-2.1) 1.9 2. 



Caudal width of prono- 

 tum 2 . 5 (2 . 4-2 . 7) 2 . 5 (2 . 4-2 . 7) 2.4 2.6 



Length of tegmen 3.8(3.5-4.) 2.5(2.-3.1) 4.3 3.2 



Length of caudal femur... 5 . 8 (5 . 6-6 . ) 6 . (5.4-6.4) 5.7 6.1 



Greatest width of caudal 



femur 2.1(2.-2.2) 2.2(2.-2.6) 2.1 2.1 



Leng-th of ovipositor 6. (5.-6.8) 5.8 



As in other characters, there is very much less variation in the 

 size and proportions of the present species than in fasciatus. In the 

 entire series before us there are no specimens noticeably larger or 

 smaller than those whose measurements are given above. 



Color Notes. — The specimens here described are typical in colora- 

 tion of the great majority of specimens of the species before us. 

 General color bistre with a tawny suffusion, the dorsum of the 

 pronotum dotted, and the caudal limbs mottled with darker brown. 

 Head with a narrow pale yellowish line about the eyes except on the 

 infra-ocular portion of the gense, a medio-longitudinal line of the 

 same color faintly indicated on the occiput. Maxillary palpi, of 

 male with proximal portion of penultimate segment pale, of female 

 with penultimate segment and proximal portion of terminal segment 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



russet."*^ Lateral lobes of pronotum broadly barred with clove 

 brown, the immediate ventral margin of the general coloration of the 

 insect. Tegmina with dorsal field of male translucent bistre, with 

 discoidal vein narrowly outlined in ivory white; dorsal field of female 

 bistre with a tawny suffusion, the median vein pale yellowish; lateral 

 field in both sexes clove brown. Ovipositor very dark Vandyke 

 brown. 



As has been noted, the males are usually darker than the females 

 and in consequence have the abdomen wholly clove brown, while 

 in the females this portion of the body is usually bistre, more or less 

 suffused with tawny. In a few of the specimens of darkest coloration 

 the light markings on the head are, as would be expected, considerably 

 obscured. 



Distribution. — The present species is distributed over the Upper 

 Austral Zone of the eastern United States and has been taken from 

 Flatbush, L. I., N. Y., southward through New Jersey, Pennsylvania, 

 Maryland, and Virginia, as far as Raleigh, N. C, and westward 

 through Ohio and Indiana to Illinois. 



Biological Notes. — This is a secretive species which is almost always 

 found among leaves and about logs in woods, particularly in damp 

 situations. In such places colonies of considerable size are some- 

 times to be found, but unless special effort is made to locate these, 

 the little insects in most cases wholly escape the notice of the col- 

 lector. 



This is one of the species of Nemobius in which the reduction of the 

 tegmina has reached an advanced stage, and we are consequently 

 not surprised to find no macropterous individuals in the series of 

 specimens before us. 



Synonymy. — No synonyms of the present species have been erected. 

 Specimens of the diminutive and peculiarly colored type of fasciatus 

 discussed under that species have been referred by Walker on 

 Scudder's identification, and bj^ Rehn and Hebard to the present 

 species. 



Specimens Examined. — 81: 27 males, 53 females, and 1 nymph. 



Flatbush, Long Island, New York, Sept. 30, 1890, (Zabriskie) 1 9 [Am. Mus. 

 Nat. Hist.] Normal. 



Staten Island, N. Y., Sept. 19, (Davis) 1 cf, 1 9 [Davis Collection]. Normal. 



■»3 This difference of coloration is due to the fact that the female is lighter than 

 the male, this is usually the case in the present species. The series before us 

 indicates that, in maculatus as in fasciatus, the lightest portion of the maxillary 

 palpi is the proximal portion of the penultimate segment. In pale specimens 

 the light coloration extends from the apex of the segment which precedes the 

 penultimate to the base of the terminal segment. 




434 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June> 



Camphill, Cumberland Co., Pennsylvania, Oct. 19, 1 tf [Pa. St. Sept. Zool.]. 

 Normal. 



Chestnut Hill, Pa., Oct. 4, 1903, (H.) 2 cf, 4 9 . Few somewhat rufous. 



Cabin John Run, Maryland, Sept. 19, 1911, (Davis) 7 cf , 18 9 , 1 cT n. [Davis 

 Collection]. Rather. 



Plummers Island, Md., Oct. 6, 10, 1906, 1909, (Caudell, Fisher, Barber) 2 d',. 

 6 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Normal and somewhat rufous. 



Washington, D. C, Sept. 20, 1911, (Davis) 1 d' [Davis Collection]; Oct.,. 

 1909, (Caudell) 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. d normal, 9 verv rufous. 



Fairfax County, Virginia, Sept. 21, 1911, (Davis) 1 c^, 2 9 [Davis Collection]. 

 Normal. 



Alexandria County, Va., Sept., 1911, (Davis) 1 cf, 10 9 [Davis Collection]. 

 Rather dark. 



Cherrydale, Va., Oct. 9, 1908, (Caudell) 1 d^, 2 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Pale rufous. 



Dead Run, Va., Aug. 12, 1912, (Caudell) 1 d [U. S. N. M.]. Rather dark. 



Raleigh, North Carolina, Oct. 30, 1905, (Brimley) 1 cT, 2 9 [Brimley and: 

 Hebard Collection]. Very pale, rufous. 



Tippecanoe Lake, Kosciusco County, Indiana, Aug. 26, 1902, (Blatchley) 

 2 cT. Part of type series of N. confusus. [Blatchley Collection]. Dark. 



Marion County, Ind., Sept. 10, 1895, (Blatchlev) 1 9 . Paratype [U. S. N. M.];: 

 Oct. 16, 1904, (Blatchley) 3 c^, 4 9 [A. N. S. P., U. S. N. M., Hebard Collection]. 

 1 cf , 3 9 rather rufous. 



Vigo County, Ind., (Blatchley) 1 9 . Paratype [Hebard Collection]. 



Buckeye Lake, Ohio, Sept. 12, 1912, 1 d [Ohio State Univ.]. 



Sugar Grove, Ohio, Sept. 28, 1912, 1 cf [Ohio State Univ.]. 



Cincinnati, Ohio, Oct. 19, 1912, 1 d [Ohio State Univ.]. 



Nemobius griseus E. M. Walker. 



1900. Nemobius cubensis Blatchley (not of Saussure, 1874), Psyche, IX, p. 54. 

 [Terre Haute, Ind. Sandy canal.] 



1903. Nemobius cubensis Blatchley (not of Saussure, 1874), Orth. of Indiana,, 

 pp. 420, 425. (Material recorded in 1900.) 



1904. Nemobius griseus E. M. Walker, Can. Ent., XXXVI, pp. 181, 182. 

 (Original description.) [High Park at Toronto, Sarnia, and de Grassi 

 Point on Lake Simcoe, Ontario. On sandy soil.] 



The present insect is an aberrant member of the subgenus Allo- 

 nemobius, typical individuals of which may be distinguished from the 

 other species by the proportionately longer ovipositor, which usually 

 exceeds the length of the caudal femur by about 

 one-quarter, the more grayish general coloration 

 and the distinctive coloration and marking of the 

 head which is deep shining piceous below the 

 antennae, and grayish or brownish gray above, 

 with two or three usually distinct dark narrow 

 longitudinal stripes on the occiput. 



Described from twelve males and thirteen 

 females from three localities. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; High Park, 



Toronto, Ontario. On sandy soil. September 8, 



1902. (E. M. Walker.) [University of Toronto 



Fig. 9. — Nemobius Collection.] 



v?ew^of fe^rnale. Description of Type. — Size medium for the 



(X 3.) genus; form moderately slender; head rather 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 435 



large, full and rounded, about as wide as the pronotum. Maxillary 

 palpi much as in fasciatus in general form, but with joints not as much 

 produced. Eyes not as prominent as in that species, somewhat more 

 broadly ovate. Pronotum, when compared with that of fasciatus, 

 slightly less transverse, narrowing very slightly cephalad. Tegmina 

 more than half as long as caudal femora, apex at humeral angle 

 nearly rectangulate and sharply rounded, sutural margin passes into 

 distal margin with an appreciable angulation, longitudinal veins 

 very conspicuous, cross-veinlets numerous but very faint. Wings 

 absent. Ovipositor very long, exceeding the length of the caudal 

 femur by about one-quarter, nearly straight, stout, apex of same of 



Fig. 10. Fig. 11. 



Figs. 10 and 11. — Nemobius griseus. Cephalic (Fig. 10) and dorsal (Fig. 11) 

 aspect of color pattern of head. ( X 4.) 



the fasciatus type but slightly shorter and heavier, with dorsal margin 

 armed with prominent, sharp, regularly spaced teeth. 



Allotypic male, here selected, bears the same data as the tj^pe 

 excepting that it was taken August 16, 1902; it is also in the Univer- 

 sity of Toronto Collection. 



Description of Allotype. Size considerably smaller; form more 

 slender than the type. Tegmina are translucent and when in repose 

 the dorsal fields have the sides subparallel with the caudal margin 

 arcuato-truncate. Spines of caudal tibiae somewhat more slender 

 than in fasciatus. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Toronto, Ont. 



Type. Allotype. Paratypes. 



9 cf 9 9 9 d' 



Length of body 8.2 7.3 8. 8.6 7.8 7.5 



Length of pronotum 1.9 1.6 2.1 1.7 1.6 1.5 



Caudal width of prono- - 



tum 2.5 2.1 2.4 2.3 2.2 2. 



Length of tegmina 4. 4. 3. 4.9 2.9 4.1 



Length of wings 10.9 



Length of caudal femur ... 6.9 5.2 6.8 6.3 5.8 5. 

 ■Greatest width of caudal 



femur 2.3 1.7 2.1 2. 2. 1.7 



Length of ovipo.sitor 8.9 8.3 8.2 8 




436 ' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



de Grassi Point, Ont. Terre Craw- 



■ ' ^ Haute, ford Co., 



Paratype. Ind. Ind. 



9 & d" & d' 



Length of body 7.6 6.8 6.8 7. 8. 



Length of pronotum 1.6 1.4 1.4 1.6 1.8 



Caudal width of pronotum. 2.1 2.1 1.9 2.2 2.5 



Length of tegmma 2.9 4. 4. 4.2 4.9 



Length of wings 



Length of caudal femur 5.7 5. 4.9 5.3 6. 



Greatest width of caudal 



femur 2. 1.8 1.7 1.9 2. 



Length of ovipositor 7.2 



The measurements of all the specimens before us of the present 

 species are given above, these indicate that there is considerable 

 variation in the proportions of griseus, but in other respects the 

 specimens are very similar. 



Color Notes. — The specimens we have examined are quite similar 

 in coloration. General color, in pale specimens, hair brown; in 

 dark specimens, clove brown washed with grayish. Head below the 

 antennae deep shining piceous, above of the general coloration with 

 two or sometimes three usually distinct, dark, narrow, longitudinal 

 stripes on the occiput. Eyes wood brown. Maxillary palpi with 



Fig. 12. — Netnobius griseus. Ovipositor. (Greatly magnified.) 



penultimate segment the palest, terminal segment very dark. Dor- 

 sum of pronotum, dorsal surface of abdomen and of caudal femora of 

 the general coloration, excepting that the first segments of the 

 abdomen, concealed beneath the tegmina, are shining black, while 

 the exposed segments have each a small dark median spot. Lateral 

 lobes of pronotum broadly banded with clove brown, the ventral 

 margin narrowly marked with buff, which marking is, in the majority 

 of specimens, a mere line. Tegmina translucent; male with dorsal 

 field of the general coloration, the discoidal vein narrowly outlined 

 in buff, lateral fields clove brown becoming pale toward the costal 

 margin; female with dorsal field broccoli brown, in some specimens 

 somewhat tinged with rufous, intermediate channel somewhat paler 

 with a black line on the dorsal margin bordering the median vein, 

 lateral field similar in coloration to the dorsal field with the exception 

 of a dark area between the humeral and mediastine veins, which in 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



pale specimens is seal brown and in dark specimens black. Ventral 

 surface of body, caudal femora and sometimes other limbs wood 

 brown, more or less suffused with russet in the males, and all but the 

 median portion obscured with dark brown in one female. Cephalic 

 and median limbs and caudal tibiae clove brown maculate with a 

 paler shade. 



Distribution. — This insect is known from the type localities in the 

 central portion of eastern Ontario and from southwestern Indiana. 



Biological Notes. — The insect has been found only on sandy soil 

 among scant vegetation. Dr. Walker tells us that its pale colors 

 render it very inconspicuous against the sand. Thirty specimens of 

 the present species have now been recorded, of which but one is 

 macropterous. 



Synonymy. — No synonyms of the present species exist. Blatchley, 

 however, was led to record specimens of this insect as iV. cubensis 

 in 1900 and 1903, owing to Scudder's incorrect determination. 



Specimens Examined. — 13: 7 males, 6 females. 



De Grassi Point, Lake Simcoe, Ontario, Sept. 1.5, 1901, (E. M.Walker) 1 9. 

 Paratype; Aug. 14, 1904, (E. M. Walker) 2 c?, 1 9 [University of Toronto and 

 U. S. N. M.]. 



High Park, Toronto, Ont., Aug. 16, Sept. S, 1902, (E. M. Walker) 3 d', 3 9 . 

 Type, Allotype, Paratypes. [University of Toronto and A. N. S. P.]. 



Terre Haute, Indiana, Oct. 9, 1893, (Blatchley) 2 cf [Blatchley Collection]. 



Crawford County, Ind., Sept. 4, 1902, (Blatchley) 1 & [Blatchley Collection]. 



Nemobius griseus funeralis Hart. 



1900. Ncmohius funeralis Hart, Ent. News, XVII, p. 159. (Description.) 

 [College Station, Tex.] 



The present interesting insect is very different from any of the 

 other species found in Texas, but, although known from the unique 

 type only, comparisons with the type and other specimens of Walker's 

 N. griseus show without question that it is a geographic race of that 

 species differing only in the darker coloration, more obscure color 

 pattern and much shorter ovipositor. Material from the country 

 which intervenes between the type locality and the range of typical 

 griseus will doubtless show intermediates much as those found between 

 N.fasciatus and its southern race N.fasciatus sociiis, although in the 

 present race the differentiation appears to have reached a more 

 advanced degree. 



Type: 9 ; College Station, Brazos County, Texas. December 

 26, 1905. (Charles A. Hart) [lUinois State Laboratory of Natural 

 History Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Size and form similar to that of smaller 

 individuals of N. griseus. Head, maxillary palpi, eyes, pronotum, 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



and tegmina"** as in that species. Wings absent. Ovipositor^^ pre- 

 cisely as in griseus, but very much shorter, little over three-quarters 

 the length of the caudal femur. 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 



Type, 9. 

 College Station, Tex. 



Length of body . 7.9 



Length of pronotum 1 . 7 



Caudal width of pronotum . 2 . 



Length of tegmina 2.7, 2.9 



Length of caudal femur 5 . 6 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1.8 



Length of ovipositor 4 . ^^ 



Color Notes. — The type is much darker than the series of N. griseus 

 before us, being in general coloration very dark clove brown (almost 

 black) washed with grayish, but the distinctive markings of that 

 insect are all present in this dark specimen although less prominent. 

 The portion of the head below the antennse is deep shining piceous, 

 exactly as in griseus, while the occipital stripes though faint are 

 clearly discernible under a Zeiss binocular. Eyes clove brown and 

 maxillary palpi of the same color, the distal portion of the third 

 segment and the entire penultimate segment somewhat paler. 

 Pronotum wholly of general coloration excepting in the cephalic 

 portion which is somewhat paler, particularly so on the lateral lobes. 

 Tegmina with dorsal field broccoli brown faintly tinged with rufous, 

 intermediate channel of same coloration with the black line of the 

 dorsal margin (often striking in griseus) very narrow; lateral fields 

 black. Femora and ventral surface of body black; other portions 

 of limbs bistre. 



Distribution. — The present insect is known only from College 

 Station, in central southeastern Texas. 



Specimens Examined. — 1 : 1 female. 



College Station, Texas, Dec. 26, 1905, (Hart) 1 9 . Type N. funeralis Hart. 

 (HI. State Lab. Nat. Hist.] b. 



44 The right tegmen of the type is slightly shrivelled. 



■*5 The ovipositor of the type has the dorsal and ventral valves considerably 

 separated at their extremities as is so frequently found in .V. bruneri. 



^^ Hart gives in the original description 3.5 mm. for this length, probably 

 because he measured the length of the exposed ventral surface of the shaft. The 

 measurements given throughout the present paper for this length are taken 

 from the base of the ovipositor, within the subgenital plate, to the apex of the 

 ovipositor. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



Nemobius ambitiosus Scudder. 



1877. Nemobius ambitiosus Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XIX, 



pp. 81, 82. (Original description.) [Fort Reed, Fla.] 

 1896. Nemobius ambitiosus Scudder, Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, pp. 99, 104. 



[Fort Reed, Charlotte Harbor, Sandford, Indian River, and Jacksonville, 



Fla.] 

 1896. Nemobius ambitiosus Scudder, Psyche, VII, p. 432. [New key.] 

 1902. Nemobius ambitiosus Blatchley, A Nature Wooing, pp. 40, 223. 



[Ormond, Fla.] 

 1905. Nemobius ambitiosus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1904, p. 800. [Thomasville, Ga., Leon County, Fla. In pine straw.] 

 1905. Nemobius ambitiosus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1905, p. 50. [Miami, Tampa, Fla. In dead leaves.] 



1907. Nemobius ambitiosus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1907, p. 317. [Pablo Reach, San Pablo, and Gainesville, Fla. Under- 

 growth in pine woods and in palmetto scrub.] 



1909. Nemobius ambitiosus Hebard, Ent. News, XX, p. 115. [Thomasville, 

 Ga. Frequent in pine woods. December.] 



1911. Nemobius ambitiosus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1910, p. 596. [Bainbridge, Ga.] 



1911. Nemobius ambitiosus Allard, Ent. News, XXII, p. 156. [Thompson's 

 Mills, Ga. One of the commonest and earliest species.] 



1912. Nemobius ambitiosus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1912, p. 273. [Miami and Homestead, Fla. Undergrowth in pine woods.] 



This trim insect may be immediately distinguished from all other 

 North American species of the genus by the very strilving marlvings 

 of the head and the usually distinctly striped caudal femora. More- 

 over, in the males, the evenness of the dorsal field of the tegmina, 

 which is bounded by a pale narrow line not only laterad, but caudad 

 as well, gives this sex a very clean-cut appearance, while the scarcely 



Figs. 13 and 14:.^Nemobius ambitiosus. Cephalic (Fig. 13) and dorsal (Fig. 14) 

 aspect of color pattern of head. (X 4.) 



enlarged apical portion of the ovipositor in the opposite sex is dis- 

 tinctive. 



The insect is a very aberrant member of the subgenus Allonemohius. 

 Although a small amount of variation exists in size, proportions, and 

 tone of general coloration, the peculiarly striking color pattern is 

 constant in the present species. 



Described from a series of eleven specimens from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Fort Reed, Florida. April 20-22, 

 1876. (Comstock.) [Scudder Collection.] 



We here describe a female from Gainesville, Fla., taken August 

 16, 1905, in the undergrowth of the pine woods by Rehn and Hebard. 

 29 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Size medium for the genus, form robust; head rather large and 

 rounded, but considerably flattened in front. Maxillary palpi much 

 as in N. griseus, but with the penultimate segment much more de- 

 cidedly constricted in the proximal portion. Eyes broad-ovate, not 

 at all protruding. Pronotum as in griseus. Tegmina less than half 

 as long as caudal femora, apex at humeral angle very broadly and 

 roundly obtuse-angulate, distal margin of dorsal field oblique, passing 

 into the sutural margin arcuately without angulation, the intermediate 

 channel not conspicuous and forming part of the dorsal field, longi- 

 tudinal veins very heavy and straight, cross-veinlets numerous but 

 very faint. Wings absent. Ovipositor slightly longer than the 

 caudal femora,'*'^ rigidly straight, apex of same scarcely enlarged, 

 dorsal margin of apex armed with an even series of heavy, sharp 

 teeth. Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, shorter than in N. fasciatus, 

 with caudal margin straight. Caudal femora with greatest width 

 (meso-cephalic) contained less than three times in the length. Spines 

 of caudal tibiae stiff, covered with very short hairs, margins very 

 finely serrate; caudal metatarsus furnished on dorsal and ventral 

 margins with unusually heavy bristles. 



Fig. 15. — Nemobius ambitiosus. Ovipositor. (Greatly magnified.) 



A male bearing the same data as the female here described furnishes 

 the additional information given below. 



Size slightly smaller, form similar to female. The tegmina are 

 translucent and shiny, with the dorsal field when in repose having 

 the sides subparallel and the caudal margin broadly and very evenly 

 arcuate. Subgenital plate similar to that of N. fasciatus. 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



Thompson's Mills, Ga. 



Averages of series. 



cfd^ 9 9 



Length of body 7 . 2 (6 . 6-7 . 8) 7 . 5 (6 . 9-8 . ) 



Length of pronotum 1.6(1.5-1.7) 2 . (1.9-2.1) 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.1 (1 . 9-2 .3) 2 . 4 (2 . 3-2 . 5) 



Length of tegmina 4 . 4 (4 . 2-4 . 5) 2 . 9 (2 . 7-3 . 1) 



Length of caudal femur 5 . 6 (5 . 4-6 . ) 6 . (5.7-6. 3) 



Greatest width of caudal femur 2 . 2 (2 . 1-2 . 4) 2 . 3 (2 . 2-2 . 4) 



Length of ovipositor 5.2 (4 . 9-5 . 6) 



*^ Examination of the large series before us shows that the length of the ovi- 

 positor is variable in the present species and the average measurements show that 

 it is usually not as long as the caudal femora. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



Thomasville, Ga. 

 Averages of series. 



cf cf 9 9 



Length of body 6 . 8 (6 . 1-7 . 8) 7 . 1 (6 . 1-8 . 2) 



Length of pronotum 1.7(1.6-1.9) 1.8(1.7-2. ) 



Caudal width of pronotum 2 . 2 (2 . 1-2 . 4) 2 . 2 (2 . -2 . 4) 



Length of tegmina 4 . 2 (4 . -4 . 5) 2 . 8 (2 . 6-3 . 3) 



Length of caudal femur 5 . 4 (4 . 8-5 . 8) 5 . 6 (5 . 2-6 . ) 



Greatest width of caudal femur 2 . (1.8-2.3) 2.1 (1 . 8-2 . 4) 



Length of ovipositor 4.5 (3.9-4.8) 



Gainesville, Fla. 

 Extremes of series. 



cf d^ 9 9 



Length of body 5.9 8. 6. 7.4 



Length of pronotum 1.2 1.7 1.6 1.8 



Caudal width of pronotum 1.9 2.3 2 . 2.6 



Length of tegmina 3.2 3.9 2.2 2.8 



Length of caudal femur 4.8 6. 4.9 6.1 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1.7 2.3 1.7 2.4 



Length of ovipositor 4.2 6.4 



Homestead, Fla. 



cf d' d^ 9 9 



Length of body 6.3 6.1 6.5 7.7 7.6 



Length of pronotum 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.8 2. 



Caudal width of pronotum . 2 . 2. 2.2 2.2 2.5 



Length of tegmina 3.7 3.6 3.8 2.4 2.7 



Length of caudal femur 5.6 5.2 5.5 5.9 5.8 



Greatest width of caudal 



femur 2. 2. 2.1 2.2 2.4 



Length of ovipositor 4.8 6.1 



Although the variation in size and proportions is well demon- 

 strated by the above measurements, we find the species to vary but 

 little in its distinctive color pattern and tegminal structure. Over 

 the distribution of ambitiosus there is no gradual increase or decrease 

 in size, local conditions governing such variation ; this is shown by 

 the extremes given for the series from Gainesville, Fla., which series 

 averages rather large, but contains not only the largest, but also the 

 smallest specimens before us. 



Color Notes. — The general coloration ranges from cinnamon to 

 clove brown tinged with tawnj^, frequently more or less flecked with 

 a darker shade and occasionally with grayish, which gives to certain 

 females a rather' close superficial resemblance to N. maculatus. 

 Both extremes are represented by numerous specimens in the series 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



before us, those of cinnamon coloration having in ahnost every case 

 been taken in the undergrowth of the pine woods. 



The coloration of the specimens here described is as follows. Occi- 

 put and vertex mars brown; face shining piceous, sharply delineated 

 from the vertex by a paler edging of the latter and crossed by a very 

 striking but narrow supra-ocellar band; post-ocular region pale 

 russet. Maxillary palpi with proximal segments cinnamon, terminal 

 segment dark, shading abruptly from cinnamon to clove brown in the 

 proximal fifth. Pronotum mars brown with ventro-caudal angle of 

 lateral lobes clove brown, the immediate margin at this point very 

 pale. Dorsal surfaces of limbs russet, flecked with darker brown; 

 external face of caudal femora, however, strikingly marked with two 

 narrow longitudinal bands of clove brown tinged with tawny. Teg- 

 mina of male shining piceous, discoidal vein cream color, which 

 coloration is continued as a narrow distal border to both dorsal and 

 lateral fields, thereby giving the insect a very trim appearance; of 

 female shining piceous, the intermediate channel buffy. Dorsal 

 surface of abdomen of male clove brown tinged with tawny; of 

 female mars brown, that portion hidden by the tegmina piceous in 

 both sexes. In both sexes the ventral surface of the body and limbs 

 is cinnamon. 



A number of females before us have the entire dorsal fields of the 

 tegmina of the same paler coloration as the intermediate channel 

 and in such specimens this surface is usually flecked with darker 

 brown. Some specimens have the lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 unicolorous, dark or light brown, and the pale coloration of the 

 margin of the ventro-caudal angle is often much reduced or entirely 

 absent. In a very few of the palest colored specimens the striking 

 markings of the external faces of the caudal tibiae are absent. The 

 striking cephalic markings are always distinct and are an excellent 

 specific character. 



Distrihution. — The present species is known to range from Florence, 

 South Carolina, and Gwinnett County in northern Georgia, south- 

 ward over that State and throughout the mainland of Florida. 



Biological Notes. — Allard states that the present species is the first 

 to appear at Thompson's Mills in north Georgia, and describes its 

 song as a very brief, high-pitched, and shrill "tiiiiiiii-tiiiiii-tiiiiiiiii- 

 tiiiiiiii." He further remarks, ''It is one of the commonest species 

 of Nemobius in this vicinity and begins to stridulate as soon as spring 

 opens in March and April. In April, 1910, very cold periods of 

 weather with considerable sleet and snow completely silenced these 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



hardy crickets. Notwithstanding this inclement weather, these 

 crickets were always in active stridulation as soon as the days became 

 warmer." The present author has often noticed the same hardiness 

 of this species at Thomasville, Ga., during the winter months, and 

 from there southward the insects are found adult throughout the 

 year. It seems singular that a species showing such hardy habits 

 is so limited in northward distribution. It is our opinion that no 

 macropterous form of the present species exists. 



Speciinens Examined. — 161: 76 males, 73 females, and 12 nymphs. 



Florence, South Carolina, Sept. 6, 1911, (R. and H.) 1 d^, 1 9 . 



Thompson's Mills, Gwinnett Countv, Georgia, April 17, 1910, (AUard) 3 d' , 

 4 9, 2 c^ n., 1 ? n. [U. S. N. M.]. 



Jesup, Ga., December, (H.) 1 d"] Sept. 1, 1911, (R. and H.) .3 9. 



Spring Creek near Bainbridge, Ga., June 7-23, 1911, July, 1912, (Bradley) 

 2 9 [Cornell Univ.]. 



Thomasville, Ga., Feb., Mar., Apr., Oct., Nov., Dec, 1903, 1904, (H. and for 

 H.) 16 cf , 8 9. 



Homerville, Ga., Aug. 27, 1911, (R. and H.) 4 d', 4 9 . 



Lot 328, 12th Distr., Ware Countv, N. edge Okefenokee Swamp, Ga., Aug. 28, 

 1911, (R. and H.) 2 o^, 2 9. 



Billy's Island, Okefenokee Swamp, Ga., June, 1912, (Bradley) 1 cf , 1 9 , 1 d" n. 

 [Cornell Univ.]. 



Honey Island, Okefenokee Swamp, Ga., June, 1912, (Bradley) 1 9 [Cornell 

 Univ.]. 



St. Simon's Island, Ga., Aug. 30, 1911, (R. and H.) 5 d", 6 9 . 



Cumberland Island, Ga., Aug. 31, 1911, (R. and H.) 6 o', 5 9 . 



Leon County, Georgia State Line, Florida, Spring of 1903, (H.) 1 d". 



Live Oak, Fla., Aug. 26, 1911, (R. and H.) 3 9 . 



Jacksonville, Fla., Nov., 188.5, (Ashmead) 2 d [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]; 

 (Pridday) 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]; Nov. 3, 5, 1911, (Davis) 3 d', 3 9 

 [Davis Collection]. 



Atlantic Beach, Fla., Aug. 24, 1911, (R. and H.) 1 9. 



Pablo Beach, Fla., Aug. 12, 190.5, (R. and H.) 1 9 n. 



San Pablo, Fla., Aug. 13, 190.5, (R. and H.) 1 9 . 



Ormond, Fla., Mar. 26, Apr. 9, 1899, (Blatchley) 2 d", 2 9 [Hebard Collection, 

 A. N. S. P.]. 



Gainesville, Fla., Aug. 16, 1905, (R. and H.) 15 d', 14 9 . 



Indian River, Fla., (Priddav) 1 d" [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. 



Lakeland, Fla., Nov. 8, 9, 10, 1911, (Davis) 1 c?, 4 9 [Davis Collection]. 



Tampa, Fla., Jan. 16, 17, 1904, (H.) 1 c?, 1 9. 



Sarasota, Fla., Feb. 16, 21, 22, 1911, (Blatchley) 3 c?, 3 9 [Blatchley Col- 

 lection]. 



Punta Gorda, Fla., Nov. 12, 14, 1911, (Davis) 1 d", 1 9, 1 o' n. [Davis Col- 

 lection, U. S. N. M.]. 



Miami, Fla.. Feb. 6, 7, 1904, Mar. 20, 28, 1910, (H.) 4 d^, 1 9 , 4 d^ n., 2 9 n. 



Homestead, Fla., Mar. 17-19, 1910, (H.) 2 d", 2 9 ; July 10-12, 1912, (R. and 

 H.) 1 d. . 



Subgenus BRACHYNEMOBIUS n. subgen. 



The subgenus is monotypic. Type of subgenus — Nemohius 

 panteli n. sp. 



Subgeneric Description. — Size large for genus. Disto-ventral spurs 

 of caudal tibia very unequal in length. Proximo-internal spine of 

 caudal tibia in male specialized as described under Morphological 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Notes for the genus; other spines short and heavy, below concave, 

 with margins of this sulcation minutely serrulate in both sexes, the 

 disto-internal spine not specialized. Ovipositor moderately long, 

 nearly rigidly straight ; apex with the margin of that portion formed 

 by the dorsal valves straight and armed with serrulations, the portion 

 formed by the ventral valves unarmed. 



The present subgenus finds its nearest relationship in the North 

 American subgenera to Allonemohius, from which it differs in the 

 shorter heavier spines of the caudal tibiae, the ovipositor which has 

 the apex with that portion formed by the dorsal valves not obliquelj- 

 subtruncate or armed with teeth and a more robust general appear- 

 ance. 



Nemobius panteli n. sp. 



1896. Nemobius mexicanus Scudder (not of Walker, 1869), Jour. N. Y. Ent. 

 Soc, IV, p. 107. (In part.) [Mescico, Mex.] 



This species appears to be related more nearly to Nemobius fasciatus 

 socius than to any of the other North American species of the genus. 

 It differs distinctly from that species in the characters given in 

 separating the present subgenus from the subgenus Allonemohius 

 as well as in certain important characters of color pattern. 



A certain relationship is shown to Nemobius brasiliensis in the 

 characters of the apex of the ovipositor, but in other respects these 

 species differ very widely. 



Fig. 16. — Nemobius panteli. Ovipositor. (Greatly magnified.) 



Type: 9; Mescico, Mexico. (E. Palmer.) [Scudder Collection.] 

 Description of Type. — Size large, form robust; head large, very 

 full and rounded, about as wide as the pronotum. Maxillary palpi 

 much as in N. fasciatus, and eyes and pronotal proportions likewise 

 similar. Tegmina not as long as caudal femora, apex at humeral 

 angle less broadly obtuse-angulate than in most species, sutural 

 margin passes into distal margin with scarcely any angulation, 

 longitudinal veins not heavy, cross-veinlets very faint. Wings 

 absent. Ovipositor considerably shorter than the caudal femur, 

 nearly rigidly straight, stout; apex with that portion formed by the 

 dorsal valves straight and armed with serrulations. Spines of 

 caudal tibiae distinctive, as given in description of subgenus. 



The allotype bears the same data as the type and is also in the 

 Scudder Collection. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



Descnptio?i of Allotype. — Very similar to female. Tegmina similar 

 to those of N. fasciatus. Wings absent. Proximo-internal spine 

 of caudal tibia as in fasciatus. Spurs and spines of caudal tibiae 

 distinctive, as given in description of subgenus. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



San Jose, 

 Mescico, Mex. Costa Rica. 



Type 9. Allot j-pic cf. c? 



Length of body 9.2 8.4 7.5 



Length of pronotum 1.9 1.9 1.9 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.4 2.3 2.3 



Length of tegmina 4 . 5.2 4.4 



Length of caudal femur. 6 . 6 . 6 . 



Greatest width of caudal femur 2.3 2.3 2.1 



Length of ovipositor 4.7 



Color Notes. — General coloration of head, pronotum, tegmina, and 

 abdomen clove brown; the dorso-caudal jDortion of the occiput is 

 russet, this marking extending on the sides of the head as a narrow 

 line which borders the caudal margin of the eyes, the remaining 

 post-ocular portion of the gense being of the darker general colora- 

 tion. In front of the paler marking of the occiput there is an indica- 

 tion of four very narrow and faint longitudinal lines of this color 

 and the dorsum of the pronotum is also minutely dotted with russet. 

 In the female the intermediate channel of the tegmina is broccoli 

 brown, in the male wood brown. The limbs are bistre in the female, 

 drab in the male. Ovipositor dark burnt umber. 



The specimen from Costa Rica was taken when it had recently 

 reached the adult condition ; this specimen shows scarcely any 

 cephalic markings. 



Distribution. — The present species is known only from ^Mescico, 

 Mex., and San Jose, Costa Rica. 



Synonymy. — It is surprising that Scudder, in 1896, considered his 

 specimens of this aberrant species to be the same as the very different 

 Nemohius cuhensis mormonius, which insect he then erroneously 

 believed to be Nemohius mexicanus Walker. 



Specimens Examined. — 13: 6 males and 7 females. 



Mescico, Mexico (near), (E. Palmer) 5 cf, 7 9. Type, Allotype, Paratypes. 

 [Scudder Collection.] 



San Jose, Costa Rica (border of river Maria Aguilar), June, 1905. (P. BioUey) 

 1 cf [A. N. S. P.]. 



Subgenus ARGIZALA Walker. 



The subgenus is monotypic. Type of subgenus — Nemohius 

 hrasiliensis [Argizala hrasiliensis] (Walker). 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Suhgeneric Description. — Size very large for the genus. Pronotum 

 with width almost twice the length, much more transverse than in 

 the other North American subgenera. Disto-ventral spurs of caudal 

 tibia very unequal in length. Proximal-internal spine of caudal 

 tibia in male specialized as described under Morphological Notes 

 for the genus; other spines very long, below concave, with margins 

 of this sulcation minutely serrulate in both sexes, the disto-internal 

 spine not specialized. Ovipositor long, nearly rigidly straight; 

 apex with the margin of that portion armed by the dorsal valves 

 straight and armed with serrulations, the portion formed by the 

 ventral valves unarmed. The glossiness of the only known North 

 American species of this subgenus is very striking. 



The present subgenus finds its nearest relationship in the North 

 American subgenera to Allonemobius and Brachynemobius. In form 

 it is perhaps somewhat nearer the former, while the shape and 

 armament of the apex of the ovipositor is similar to that found in the 

 latter subgenus. 



Nemobius brasiliensis (Walker). 



1869. Argizala brasiliensis Walker, Cat. Dermap. Saltat. Br. Mus., I, p. 61. 



(Original description.) [Santarem, Brazil, and Brazil.] 

 1877. Nemobius brasiliensis Saussure, Melang. Orth., II, pp. 241, 255, 256. 



[Brazil.] 

 1884. Nemobius fasciatus Bolivar (not Gryllus fasciatus De Geer, 1773), 



Viaje al Pacifico., Neur. y Ort., p. 107. [Huasco, Peru.] 



1895. Nemobius longipennis Bruner (not of Saussure, 1874), Bull. Lab. Nat. 

 Hist. Univ. Iowa, III, Pt. 3, p. 67. [Castillo, Nicaragua. In deep woods.] 



1896. Nemobius melleus Scudder, Psyche, VII, pp. 432, 434. (Description.) 

 [San Rafael, Vera Cruz, Mex.] 



1897. Nemobius fasciatus Saussure (not Gryllus fasciatus De Geer, 1773), 

 Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, p. 243. [San Juan Bautista, Teapa, Tabasco, 

 Mex.] 



1906. Nemobius melleus Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 243. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



This insect is distinguished from all other species of the genus 

 Nemobius, excepting A^". major, by its very large size, peculiar color 

 pattern and glossiness, and ovipositor with the straight dorsal margin 

 of the apex armed with serrulations. 



Without being able to examine the type of major, we do not feel 

 warranted in considering it a brachypterous individual of the .present 

 species. Saussure's description shows major to be very closely allied 

 to brasiliensis, differing from it in the less transverse pronotum, with 

 bands on either side of the same, and the longer ovipositor. 



Based on two females from Brazil. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Santarem, Brazil. (Bates) 

 [British Museum]. 




1913.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



447 



We here describe a female taken at Medellin, Vera Cruz, Mex., in 

 September, 1895, and in the Hebard Collection. 



Size very large for the genus; form compact; head rather large 

 and rounded but a little flattened in front. Maxillary palpi of 

 much the same form as in N. fasdatus. 

 Pronotum extremely transverse with 

 length contained nearly twice in greatest 

 (caudal) dorsal width, narrowing evenly 

 and considerably cephalad and with a 

 slight medio-longitudinal sulcus in the 

 cephalic portion. Tegmina nearly as 

 long as the caudal femora, apex of the 

 same dorsal in position, distal margin of 

 dorsal field rotundato-acute-angulate, lon- 

 gitudinal veins conspicuous, cross-veinlets 

 numerous and heavy, faint cross-veinlets 

 are also present in the intermediate 

 channel and traces of such are to be found 

 even between the veins of the lateral 

 fields. Wings very long, considerably 

 more than twice as long as the tegmina. 

 Ovipositor long though shorter than the 

 caudal femur, rigid, straight, apex of 

 same very narrowly sublanceolate, with 

 the margin of that portion formed by the FtiJ" l^oT^a^v ?e w'of 



ensts. 

 female. 



(X 3.) 



dorsal valves straight and armed evenly 

 with serrulations. Subgenital plate 



scoop-shaped, more elongate than in N. fasdatus, with a deep acute- 

 angulate emargination mesad. Caudal femora with greatest (meso- 

 cephalic) width contained over three times in the length.^^ Spines 

 of caudal tibiae very long, covered with long hairs and having the 

 margins armed with serrulations which are more than usually con- 

 spicuous. Caudal tibiae and tarsi heavily supplied with fine short 

 hairs. 



A male from Castillo, Nicaragua, taken in February, 1893, by 

 B. Shimek and now in the Hebard Collection ex Bruner, affords the 

 additional characters given below. 



Size considerably smaller; proportions much as in the female. 

 Tegmina transparent and when in repose the dorsal fields are hemi- 



^* In the Paraguayan specimens this character does not hold. 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



elliptical in outline. Subgenital plate and first proximal internal 

 spine of caudal tibia much as in fasciatus. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Medellin, San Rafael, Sapucay, 



Castillo, V. C, V. C, Paraguay. 



Nicaragua. Mexico. Mexico. , ' v 



cf 9 9 9 9 



Length of body 9. 11.4 11.7 11.6 11.1 



Length of pronotum 1.4 1.8 1.8 1.9 1.9 



Greatest width of prono- 

 tum 2.7 3.4 3.5 3.7 3.2 



Length of tegmen 5.6 6.4 6.8 6.9 6.9 



Length of wings 11.6 14.1 15.9 15.1 16.5 



Length of caudal femur 6.5 8.3 8.3 7.7 7.5 



Greatest width of caudal 



femur 2. 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.8 



Length of ovipositor 6.4 7.1 6. 7.7 



The specimens before us indicate that there is a moderate amount 

 of size variation in the present species, particularly in the length of 

 the ovipositor, but the specimens from Mexico and Paraguay are 

 surprisingly similar for material from localities so widely separated. 



Color Notes.— The specimens before us are very similar in colora- 

 tion; those from Nicaragua, Brazil, and Paraguay are slightly darker 

 than the Mexican individuals. General color glossy cream-buff or 



Fig. 98. — A^emobius hrasiliensis. Ovipositor. (Greatly magnified.) 



very pale glossy tawny-olive, the underparts somewhat paler. Head 

 of general coloration, the occiput distinctly striped with three longi- 

 tudinal lines of mummy brown, eyes bistre. Maxillary palpi covered 

 with short dark hairs, of general coloration with the exception of the 

 extreme apex of the terminal segment which is bistre. Pronotum of 

 general coloration with a large meso-dorsal maculation of mummy 

 brown, the caudo-lateral portions of this maculation are of somewhat 

 darker coloration and remain as two dark dots in the palest specimens 

 in which the dark markings are very much reduced. In the palest 

 specimens the tegmina and wings are of the general coloration, with 

 the exception of a very small dark area at the discoido-anal root 

 basin of the tegmina which in the darker specimens is greatly expanded 

 and the entire exposed portions of the tegmina and wings are suffused 

 with mummy brown; intermediate channel very slightly paler than 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



lateral fields of tegmina. Ovipositor russet, the apex burnt umber. 

 The glossy and characteristic coloration combined with the large 

 size and certain different proportions give the present insect a very 

 distinctive appearance. 



Distrihution. — Though known from few specimens, the present 

 species has the widest distribution of anj^ American species of the 

 genus, being found from the state of Vera Cruz in Mexico southward 

 through Nicaragua and Brazil to Paraguay and westward to the 

 province of Atacama in Chile. 



Biological Notes. — No brachj-pterous specimens of the present 

 species are known. 



Synonymy. — Scudder, in 1896, described Nemohius melleus from a 

 single specimen from San Rafael, Vera Cruz, Mex., apparently 

 omitting comparison with or reference to the South American species 

 of the genus. We here place this species in the s>Tionymy under 

 hrasiliensis, for after careful examination of the types of the two 

 species we find that no differential characters exist. 



Specimens Examined.— 7 : 1 male, 6 females. 



San Rafael, Vera Cruz, Mexico, (TowTisend) 1 9 . Type, N. melleus Sc. 

 IHebard Collection ex Bruner]. 



Medellin, V. C, Alex., Sept., 1895, 1 9 [Hebard Collection]. 



San Juan Bautista, Teapa, Tabasco, Mex., Jan., (H. H. Smith) 19" [Br. Mus.]. 



Castillo, Nicaragua, Feb., 1893, (B. Shimek) 1 cf [Hebard Collection ex 

 Bruner]. 



Santarem, Brazil, (Bates) 1 9 , Type [Br. Mus.]. 



Sapucay, Paraguay, Feb. 10, 24, 1901, (W. T. Foster) 2 9 [U. S. X. M.]. 



Subgenus NEONEMOBIUS n. subgen. 



This subgenus includes four species and two geographic races 

 from North America. Type of Subgenus — Nemohius cubensis 

 Saussure. 



Subgeneric Description. — Size medium to verj^ small for the genus. 

 Disto-ventral spurs of caudal tibia verj' unequal in length. Proximo- 

 internal spine of caudal tibiae in male specialized as described under 

 Morphological Notes for the genus ; other spines of caudal tibiae 

 below concave, with margins of this sulcation very minutely serrulate 

 in both sexes, the disto-internal spine not specialized. Ovipositor 

 short, about two-thirds the length of the caudal femur, gently curved^" 



*^ This specimen was unfortunately recorded as N. fasciatus by Saussure in the 

 Biologia. 



5" We find the species Nemobius bruneri to be a somewhat aberrant member 

 of this subgenus, having a more decidedly curved and slightly heavier ovi- 

 positor than in the other species, the apex of which has the dorsal margin armed 

 with serrations. 



The species Nemohius tollecus shows all of these aberrations to an even greater 

 degree. Both of these species are considerably more robust than the other 

 species of the present subgenus. 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie^ 



and more slender than in the species having a more rigid ovipositor;, 

 apex with margin of portion formed by dorsal valves nearly straight 

 or obliquely subtruncate and armed with serrulations or serrations, 

 the portion formed by the ventral valves unarmed. 



Nemobius toltecus Saussure. 



1859. N[emobius] toltecus Saussure, Rev. et Mag. Zool., 2e Ser., XI, p. 316. 



' (Original description.) [Mexico.] 

 1869. Nemobius mexicanus Walker, Cat. Dermapt. Saltat. Br. Mus., I, 



p. 57. (Description.) [Oajaca, Mex.] 

 1874. Nemobius toltecus Saussure, Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. Zool., VI, pp. 386,. 



387. [Oajaca, Mex. From notes, probably on material originally 



described. Type lost.] 

 1897. Nemobius toltecus Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, pp. 223, 224. 



[Omilteme in Guerrero, Mex. Scudder's incorrect localities also given.] 



This striking species has a decided superficial resemblance to the 

 Old World N. sylveshis, from which species it differs in being a little 

 smaller and in having the ovipositor curved and armed and the 

 tegmina not obliquely truncate. 



From the North American species it may be separated readily by 

 its color pattern combined with the characters of the ovipositor which 

 is considerably heavier and more curved than in any of these. 



Type: 9 ; Mexico (probably State of Oaxaca). [Type lost.] 



We here describe a female from Omilteme, Guerrero, Mex., taken 

 in July at an elevation of 8,000 feet by H. H. Smith and now in the 

 British Museum. 



Size large (for the genus), form heavy and compact; head rather 

 large, full and rounded, about as wide as the pronotum. Pronotum. 

 with length contained not quite one and four-tenths times in greatest 

 (caudal) dorsal width, narrowing slightly cephalad. Tegmina very 

 short, not half as long as the caudal femora; distal margin of dorsal 

 field almost transverse, very broadly arcuato-truncate; intermediate 

 channel distinctly depressed; longitudinal veins rather heavy; 

 cross-veinlets faint. Wings absent. Ovipositor very heavy, length 

 contained about one and one-half times in that of the caudal femora, 

 distinctly arcuate (decidedly so for the genus) , apex of same narrowly 

 sublanceolate enlarged with that portion formed by the dorsal 

 valves armed, the upper margin serrate, these serrations small, short 

 and blunt (heavier than in any of the other North American species 

 having a curved ovipositor). Caudal femora heavy, greatest (meso- 

 cephalic) width contained slightly more than two and one-half times. 

 in length. 



The male of the present species is unknown. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Oajaca (?), Omilteme, 



Mexico. Guerrero, Mexico. 



9 9 



Length of body 9 . 10 . 



Length of pronotum 2.^ 



■Caudal width of pronotum 2.7 



Length of tegmina 2.7 



Length of caudal femur 6. 6.4 



•Greatest width of caudal femur 2.5 



Length of ovipositor 4.5 4.3 



Color iVofes.— The coloration of this species shows a similarity to 

 that of the European N. sylvestris. Head and dorsum of pronotum 

 •chestnut, maxillary palpi yellowish with distal portion of ultimate 

 Joint dark brown. Dorsal field of tegmina straw color, lateral lobes 

 of pronotum and lateral field of tegmina very dark brown. Body 

 and limbs brown, somewhat tinged with reddish. 



Distribution. — The present species is known from probably but 

 three specimens, these taken in the states of Guerrero and Oaxaca, 

 Mex. 



Biological Notes. — All of the known specimens of the present 

 species are brachypterous. 



Synonymy.— In 1869, Walker very inadequately described N. mexi- 

 canus from Oaxaca, Mex., which species Saussure, in 1874, synon- 

 ymized with his A^. toltecus (described in 1859 from Mexico, probably 

 Oaxaca). Scudder, however, in 1896, resurrected mexicanus without 

 having examined the type, and the specimens so recorded at that 

 time were so quoted in the Biologia by Saussure the following year, 

 without doubt because Scudder's recent revision of the North Ameri- 

 can species of Nemohius should have indicated that his knowledge 

 of the North American members of the genus was superior to that of 

 others. It is the opinion of the present author that Saussure was 

 entirely correct in synonymizing mexicanus with his toltecus, and in 

 the present paper the opinion which he held in 1874 is followed. We 

 have not been able to find the type of mexicanus Walker, but we have 

 before us the series of specimens which Scudder considered mexicanus, 

 and it is our opinion that these do not fit Walker's original description, 

 but that that description agrees much better with the description 

 .and the specimen examined of toltecus. We are further strengthened 

 in this opinion by the series of Nemohius which Scudder considered 

 toltecus in the same paper of 1896, but which in fact belong to the 

 very different N. carolinus neomexicanus, which series is now before us. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Specimens Examined. — 1 : 1 female. 



OmUteme, Guerrero, Mex., July, 8,000 feet, (H. H. Smith) 1 9 [Br. Mus.]. 



Nemobius bruneri n. sp. 



1885. Nemobius sp. Bruner, Bull. Washb. Coll. Lab. Nat. Hist., IV, No. 4, 

 p. 126. [Topeka, Kan. In woods among fallen leaves.] 



1893. Cyrtoxyphus ? mriegatus Bruner, (Mss.), Publ. Nebr. Acad. Sci., III> 

 p. 32. (Without description.) [West Point, Nebr.] 



1897. Nemobius carolinus Blatchley (not of Scudder, 1877), Ins. in Gen. 

 and Orth. Ind. in Particular, p. 23. [Indiana.] 



1900. Nemobius carolinus Blatchley (not of Scudder, 1877), Psyche, IX, 

 p. 53. [Vigo, Putnam, and Monroe Counties, Ind. Rather common. Grass- 

 covered banks of streams and in open spaces in woods. Description.] 



1903. Nemobius carolinus Blatchley (not of Scudder, 1877), Orth. of Indiana, 

 pp. 421, 427. [Localities previously given. Description.] 



1905. Nemobius carolinus Isely (not of Scudder, 1877), Publ. Kan. Acad. 

 Sci., p. 248. [Dale's Pond, Wichita, Kan.] 



This species is related to N. toltecus in the shape and armament of 

 the ovipositor, but differs in being smaller, of very different color 

 pattern and having a much less heavy ovipositor. 



It may be readily separated from all other North American species 

 by its head markings and peculiar color pattern which gives it a 

 dotted and speckled appearance, and also by the characters of the 

 ovipositor. The insect is in no way nearly related to any other 

 species of Nemobius found north of the Rio Grande, but some of the 

 more mottled specimens of N. cube7isis mormonius from Texas bear 

 it a certain amount of superficial resemblance. 



Type: cf; West Point, Cuming County, Nebraska, September 1. 

 (Bruner.) [Hebard Collection ex Bruner.] 



Description of Type. — Size medium; form a little robust; head 

 large, full, and rounded, about as wide as the pronotum. Maxillary 

 palpi not as attenuate as in N. fasciatus. Eyes broad ovate, very 

 moderately protruding. Pronotum with length contained about 

 one and three-tenths times in greatest (caudal) dorsal width, narrow- 

 ing very slightly cephalad, with a slight medio-longitudinal sulcus 

 in the cephalic portion. Head and pronotum supplied with rather 

 long, bristly, black, scattered hairs. Tegmina with length but little 

 inferior to that of caudal femora (.8 mm.), translucent, almost 

 transparent, when in repose hemi-elliptical in outline. Wings 

 absent. Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, narrowing somewhat roundly 

 but rather decidedly caudad. Caudal femora short and heavy, 

 having the greatest (meso-cephalic) width contained less than three 

 times in length. 



Allotypic 9 . Putnam County, Indiana, August 25, 1901. (Blatch- 

 ley.) [United States National Museum Collection.] 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



Description of Allotype. — Size larger than male; form robust. 

 Head, maxillary palpi, eyes, and pronotum much as in the type. 

 Tegmina almost equal in length to caudal femora, apex at humeral 

 angle broadly but distinctly obtuse-angulate, sutural margin passes 

 into distal margin with a distinct sharply rounded obtuse-angulation, 

 longitudinal veins very conspicuous, cross-veinlets faint. Wings 

 absent. Supra-anal plate and cerci much as in fasciaius. Ovipositor 



Fig. 19. Fig. 20. 



Figs. 19 and 20. — Nemobius bruneri. Cephalic (Fig. 19) and dorsal (Fig. 20) 

 aspect of color pattern of head. (X 4.) 



moderately heavy, a little over half as long as the caudal femora, 

 slightly but noticeably curved, apex of same very narrowly sub- 

 lanceolate^^ with that portion formed by the dorsal valves armed, 

 the upper margin serrate, these teeth regular, heavj^ with immediate 

 apices very sharp. Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, very acute- 

 angulate emarginate mesad with margins broadly rounded. 



Fig. 21. — Nemobius bruneri. Ovipositor. (Greatly magnified.) 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



West Point, Nebr. Putnam Co., Ind. 



c? Type. cf cf 9 Allotype. 



Length of body 6.8 6.4 6.5 7.4 



Length of pronotum 1.4 1.4 1.5 1.9 



Caudal width of pronotum 1.8 1.8 2. 2.1 



Length of tegmina 4. 4.1 4.1 3. 



Length of caudal femur 4.8 4.7 5. 6. 



Greatest width of caudal 



femur 1.7 1.8 2. 2.1 



Length of ovipositor .3.8 



51 This specimen, as well as all but two of the others of the present species 

 before us, has the dorsal and ventral valves of the ovipositor considerably sepa- 

 rated at their extremities; the two specimens mentioned also indicate this cleavage, 

 but to a much less degree. We have noted this peculiarity to be very rare in 

 other species of Nemobius, and in all cases the irregularity of its proportions and 

 the distorted appearance of the apices of the valves prove it to be an abnormality. 

 It is quite probable that peculiarities in the oviposition of the insects has brought 

 about this result, and a study of these habits in this and other species should 

 prove most interesting. 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Wichita, Washington, Cabin John 



Kan. D. C Run, Md. 



cT 9 9 (? ^ 9 



Length of body 7.5 9.1 9.4 7. 6.6 9.1 



Length of pronotum 1.7 1.9 2. 1.6 1.9 2. 



Caudal width of prono- 

 tum 2.1 2.1 2.7 2. 2.2 2.4 



Length of tegmina 4.4 3.1 3.6 3.9 2.8 3.9 



Length of caudal femur. 5.6 6. 6.4 5. 5.2 6.7 

 Greatest width of caudal 



femur 2.1 2.4 2.5 2. 2. 2.5 



Length of ovipositor 3.4 3.5 3.7 4.1 



There is considerable variation in proportion and size in the series 

 before us, large and small individuals being found in the same region 

 as the measurements of the Washington and Cabin John Run speci- 

 mens show. The majority of specimens from the Atlantic coast 

 are about intermediate in size between the extremes. 



Color Notes. — The coloration of the specimens here described is 

 typical of the series before us, the only variation shown being a small 

 amount of intensification or diminution of the color pattern in a few 

 specimens. General coloration clay color mottled and flecked with 

 mummy brown. Head below and including the interantennal space 

 shining Vandyke brown, above cinnamon more or less maculate with 

 mummy brown above the interantennal space and on the base of the 

 occiput, the broad occipital bar of cinnamon thus formed usually 

 rather conspicuous, eyes dark bistre. Maxillary palpi clay color, the 

 distal portion of the terminal segment mummy brown. Pronotum 

 clay color, more or less mottled and flecked with mummy brown, this 

 mottling often heavy in the median portion of the dorsum, and 

 particularly so on the lateral lobes. Tegmina of male sepia, discoidal 

 vein cream color but usually very inconspicuous, discoido-anal root- 

 basin and upper portion of lateral field bistre; of female bistre, with 

 veins and intermediate channel clay color. Dorsal surface of abdo- 

 men of male (concealed by tegmina) clove brown; of female cephahc 

 portion (concealed by tegmina) clove brown, exposed portion clay 

 color more or less maculate with clove brown. Ovipositor burnt 

 umber. Ventral surface of body clay color. Limbs clay color 

 tinged with russet and more or less mottled and flecked with prouts 

 brown. 



The specimens from Wichita, Kan., differ from the rest of the 

 series in having the lower portion of the head cinnamon instead of 

 Vandyke brown, and the intermediate channel of the female tegmina 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



is more decidedly defined in the paler color than in the other speci- 

 mens. In every other respect, however, these specimens are typical. 



Distribution. — The present species is known from the vicinity of 

 the District of Columbia, west-central Indiana, northeastern 

 Nebraska, and northeastern and south-central Kansas. 



Biological Notes. — No macropterous specimens of this insect are 

 known. 



Synonymy. — The history of the present species is a succession of 

 unfortunate occurrences. In 1885, Bruner recorded specimens of 

 Nemobius sp. from Topeka, Kan., which belong to this species; 

 later, in 1893, he drew up a description of the species which was never 

 published, hence his Cyrtoxyphus ? variegatus Bruner (Mss.), an 

 unidentifiable ijame from the literature, but the material before us 

 from the Bruner Collection shows it to be this species. 



Before 1897, Blatchley sent a series of Indiana specimens of 

 Nemobius to Scudder for determination, and the present species was 

 inexcusably identified for him as N. carolinus Scudder, hence his 

 subsequent misconception of that species, and Caudell upon seeing 

 specimens of Blatchley's material so labelled followed him in this 

 error; thus material sent him for determination by Isely was likewise 

 recorded as carolinus. 



Specimens Examined. — 19: 10 males, 9 females. 



Cabin John Run, Maryland, Sept. 23, 1911, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Collection]. 

 Plummer's Island, Md., Oct. 11, 12, 1906, (CaudeU) 1 c^, 1 9 [U. S. N. M.j. 

 Washington, D. C, Oct. 5, (CaudeU) 3 o^, 3 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Glencarlyn, Virginia, Sept. 6, (Caudell) 2 d" [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Putnam County, Indiana, Oct. 7, 1894, Aug. 25, 1901, (Blatchley) 1 cf , 1 9 . 

 9 Allotype [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Fairview, Kansas, Aug. 15, 1904, (Isely) 1 9 [tJ. S. N. M.]. 

 Wichita, Kan., June, 1904, (Isely) 1 c^, 2 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 

 West Point, Nebraska, Sept. 1, (Bruner) 2 d^. Type, Paratype [Hebard 

 Collection]. 



Nemobius cubensis Saussure. 



1874. Nemobius cubensis Saussure, Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. Zool., VI, pp. 



384, 385, PI. 7, fig. 5. (Original description.) [Cuba; Mexico; Brazil.] 

 1877. Nemobius volaticus Scudder, Proe. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XIX, pp. 



36,37. (In part.) (Description of cf.) [Georgia.] 

 1888. N[emobius] cubensis Bolivar, Mem. Zool. Soc. France, I, p. 156. 



[Cuba.] 

 1891. Nemobius cubensis Gundlach, Ent. Cuba, II, p. 367. [Cardenas, 



Cuba.] 

 1893. Nemobius cubensis Brunner, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1893, p. 609. 



(In part.) [Costa Rica.] 



1895. Nemobius cubensis Bruner, Bull. Lab. Nat. Hist. Univ. Iowa, III, 

 pt. 3, p. 67. [Castillo, Nicaragua.] 



1896. Nemobius carolinus Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 107. (In 

 part.) [Lake Worth, Fla.] 



30 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



1896. Nemobius cubensis Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, pp. 99, 105, 106. 



(In part.) Lake Worth, Sanford, and Capron, Fla.] 

 1896. Nemobius aterrimus Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, pp. 100, 105. 



(In part.) (Description of 9 .) [Jacksonville, Fla.] 

 1896. Nemobius cubensis Pantel, Anal. Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., XXV, p. 51. 



(Morphological studies.) 

 1896. Nemobius aterrimus Scudder, Psyche, VII, p. 432. (In part.) (New 



key.) 

 1896. Nemobius cubensis Scudder, Psyche, VII, p. 432. (New key.) 

 1905. Nemobius aterrimus Rehn and Hebard (in part of Scudder, 1896), 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 50. [Tampa, Fla.] 

 1909. Nemobius cubensis Rehn, 2d Rept. Centr. Exp. Sta. Rep. Cuba, p. 218. 



[Cayamas, Cuba.] 



1911. Nemobius cubensis Sherman and Brimley, Ent. News, XXII, p. 391. 

 [Raleigh, N. C] 



1912. Nemobius cubensis Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1912, p. 273. [Homestead, Fla.] 



The large series of the present species, which is the type of the 

 subgenus Neonemobius, before us shows that a very close relationship 

 exists to N. palustris. although typical N. cubensis looks very different 

 from that species, being larger, of less dark and solid coloration, with 

 tegmina almost always much less abbreviate. A careful study of the 

 material at hand shows that there are, however, specimens in the 

 series of cubensis which can scarcely be separated from palustris. 

 These few extreme individuals are as small and of much the same 

 form as palustris, with wings lacking and tegmina quite as abbreviate 

 as in that species. Almost every one of these specimens, however, 

 is not as solid in coloration, and all but two are more pale in general 

 coloration. The majority of specimens of cubensis wanting wmgs 

 have the tegmina considerably less abbreviate than in palustris, a 

 number of these having the tegmina quite as well developed as in 

 those specimens having the longest wings. In summing up the 

 differences between the two species we may add that, in addition to 

 the other differential characters, cubensis usually has the under por- 

 tions of the body quite pale, much paler than is normal in palustris. 



From typical specimens of the western race, A^. cubensis mormonius, 

 typical individuals of the present species may be readily separated 

 by their less robust build and more solid coloration without the 

 characteristic cephalic and tegminal markings of that race. In 

 fact, so different are typical specimens of the two that, were it not for 

 the very large series before us which reveals the vast amount of 

 variability found in these insects, we should certainly have considered 

 them distinct species. 



Small dark macropterous males of N. fasciatus have been mistaken 

 for this species, but the heavier build and less smooth appearance 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



of that species should always distinguish readily even the most 

 aberrant males from cubensis, while the ovipositor characters of the 

 females show the two species to belong to different subgenera. 



Little has apparently been known of the life history of the present 

 species, and it is probably due to the fact that the majority of speci- 

 mens collected have been taken flying to lights at night that so few 

 brachypterous specimens have been previously recorded. 



Types: 4 c?", 5 9; Cuba. (Poey.) [Saussure Collection.] 



We here describe a female from Cuba, taken by Gundlach, and now 

 in the Scudder Collection. 



Size small, form slender for the genus; head small but full and 

 rounded, wider than cephalic width of pronotum. ]\Iaxillary palpi 

 of much the same form as in .V. fasciatus, but with joints not quite 

 as much produced. Eyes broad-ovate, very mildly prominent, though 

 somewhat more so than in A^. jmlustris. Pronotum of much the same 



Fig. 22. — N^emobius cubensis. Ovipositor. (Greatlj- magnified.) 



proportions as in fasciatus, but of smaller relative size to rest of 

 body. Tegmina long, extending beyond end of abdomen, apex of 

 same dorsal in position, distal margin of dorsal field rotundate acute- 

 angulate, longitudinal veins not very prominent, cross-veinlets very 

 faint. Wings absent. Ovipositor more than two-thirds as long as 

 caudal femur, distinctly though very feebly arcuate; apex of same 

 very narrowly sublanceolate, with that portion formed by the dorsal 

 valves armed, the upper margin serrulate, these serrulations very 

 closely arranged, regular, minute, sharp. Caudal femora with 

 greatest (meso-cephalic) width contained about three times in 

 length. Spines of caudal tibiae more slender than in fasciatus, not 

 quite as slender as in palustris. 



A male in the Scudder Collection, bearing the same data as the 

 female here described', affords the following additional information. 



Size very slightly smaller, proportions very much the same. The 

 tegmina are translucent, and when in repose the dorsal fields are hemi- 

 elliptical in outline. Wings very long. Proximo-internal spine of 

 caudal tibiae similar to that oi fasciatus. 




458 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Homestead, Fla. 



Cuba. 



Macropterous 

 extremes. 



Brachypterous 

 extremes. 



(f 9 cTcT 9 9 d'd' 



Length of body 7. 7.2 7. - 7.1 6.9- 7.4 5.7-6.6 



Length of prono- 

 tum L6 1.4 1.4- 1.4 1.3- 1.5 1.2-1.7 



Caudal width of 



pronotum 2.4 2.3 2,2- 2.4 2.2- 2.3 1.9-2.2 



Length of teg- 

 mina 4.6 4.7 4.1- 4.3 4.4- 4.9 3.9-4. 



Length of wings . 11 10.3-10.7 10.4-11.4 



Length of caudal 

 femur 5.3 5.4 5.1- 5.4 5.3- 5.1 4.2-5.1 



Greatest width of 



caudal femur 1.5 1.7 1.6- 1.7 1.8- 1.8 1.8-1.9 



Length of ovi- 

 positor 4 3.8- 3.8 



Raleigh, Washington, 



N. C. D. C. 



Brachypt. Macropt. 



extremes. extremes. 



9 9 9 9 



Length of body 6.6-8. 6.8-7.4 



Length of pronotum 1,7-1.7 1.4-1.6 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.1-2.3 2.1-2.2 



Length of tegmina 2.9-3.4 4.6-4.8 



Length of wrings 10.7-10.4 



Length of caudal femur 5.4-5,6 5.1- 5.6 



Greatest width of caudal femur 2.-2. 1.6-2. 



Length of ovipositor 3.4-3.9 3.9-4. 



Vera Cruz, Mex. 



Macropt, extremes, 



cf 9 9 



Length of body 7.1 6.-6.9 



Length of pronotum 1.2 1 .3-1.6 



Caudal width of pronotum 2 . 2.-2.1 



Length of tegmina 4.8 4.-4.4 



Length of wings 9.6 8.9-9.7 



Length of caudal femur 4.6 4 . 7-5 . 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1,6 1 , 7-1 . 8 



Length of ovipositor 2.7-2.9 



9 9 

 5.6-7. 



1.6-1.7 



2. -2,2 



2,9-3.1 



5. -5.2 



1.7-1.9 



3.6-4. 



Staten 

 Island, 

 N, Y. 



9 



7,4 

 1.7 

 2.3 

 4.5 

 11. 

 5.4 

 1.8 

 3.7 



Castillo, 

 Nica- 

 ragua. 



/ . 



1.4 



2.1 



4.1 



9.4 



4,7 



1,7 



2,8 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



It is evident that the variation in the present species and its races 

 is further emphasized by the measurements given above. It is true 

 that the specimens from Vera Cruz, Mexico, and Castillo, Nicaragua, 

 have in the female sex ovipositors very much shorter than are found 

 in any of the other specimens before us. These specimens are also 

 different in being the only ones at hand having the lower portion of 

 the head much paler than the upper portion, and the maxillary palpi 

 pale with only the distal portion of the terminal segment very dark. 

 In other respects these specimens agree almost perfectly with typical 

 ciibensis, and after a careful consideration of the variation in the 

 species, these differences do not warrant considering this material 

 worthy of racial distinction. 



Color Notes. — -The specimens here described agree well with other 

 macropterous specimens of the species before us in the coloration- 

 here given. General color very dark Vandyke brown, glossj% shading 

 to burnt umber on limbs and tegmina. Head and pronotum very 

 dark Vandyke brown, immaculate, shining; eyes equally dark. 

 Maxillary palpi^^ Vandyke brown, the terminal segment very dark. 

 That portion of the head which fits under the pronotum may be 

 seen to be a very little paler than the other parts of the head when 

 examined closely. Tegmina translucent, shading from Vandyke 

 brown in the proximal portion to burnt umber on the greater part 

 of both dorsal and lateral fields; intermediate channel very faintly 

 defined in burnt umber. Dorsal surface of abdomen shining black. 

 Exposed portion of wings burnt umber, concealed portion very white 

 when folded. Limbs and ventral surface of insect immaculate, 

 limbs above prouts brown, ventral surface pale^ but varying con- 

 siderably in depth of coloration. 



We have but one large series of brachypterous specimens of cubensis 

 before us, these from Homestead, Fla.,the majority of which specimens 

 are not of as solid coloration and are of somewhat lighter shade than 

 the specimens described above. In these the penultimate segment 

 of the maxillary palpi is mummy brown, the other segments of the 

 very dark general coloration. Pronotum a little maculate with 

 mummy brown, tegmina marked with the same color, the intermediate 

 channel quite distinctly defined in the lighter color in several speci- 

 mens. Limbs prouts brown, maculate to a slight degree with darker 

 shades. 



52 In some very dark specimens before us, the penultimate segment of the 

 maxillary palpi is nearly white, while the other segments are very dark; in a few 

 of the other specimens only the distal portion of the terminal segment is very dark. 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Other brachypterous specimens before us are even darker than the 

 normal coloration, being colored very similarly to A^. palustris, but 

 in almost all cases having much longer tegmina, and in the one or two 

 cases where this is not true they are larger than the largest specimens 

 of that species. 



Distribution. — The present species is known from Staten Island, 

 N. Y., south along the Atlantic coast to the extreme southern portion 

 of the mainland of Florida, and also from Cuba, Vera Cruz in Mexico, 

 Nicaragua and Costa Rica to Brazil. Its western distribution in the 

 United States appears to be limited bj^ the fall-line. The records 

 given Ijy Scudder and Blatchley for Illinois and Indiana pertain to 

 other species. 



Biological Notes. — Though seldom numerous, the present insect 

 appears to be always much more plentiful near the sea than elsewhere ; 

 the writer has found it in large numbers but once, in the high grass 

 of the everglades. Of all the North American species of Nemohius 

 it develops in the macropterous form proportionately the longest 

 tegmina and wings. The majority of macropterous specimens 

 taken have been captured flying to lights at night ; about such places 

 we have never found this insect anything but very scarce. Con- 

 sidering the usual extreme development of the tegmina and wings 

 in the present species, it is surprising to find some brachypterous 

 specimens with tegmina quite as much aborted as in A'', palustris. 



Synonymy. — In 1877, Scudder described Nemohius volaticus, which 

 species he himself placed in the synonymy under cubensis in 1896. 

 We here select a male of that series from Georgia in the Scudder 

 Collection as single type.^^ 



In Scudder's 1896 paper on the North American species of the 

 genus, he unfortunately created confusion by misidentifying much 

 material, one instance of which was the crediting of specimens of the 

 present species from Lake Worth, Fla., to A^. carolinus and another 

 in taking a small dark brachypterous female of cubensis as the basis 

 of the description of that sex of his new and doubly invalid A^. aterri- 

 mus. 



In 1905, Rehn and Hebard, at a loss to fathom the literature, 

 credited a pair of dark cubensis, having long tegmina but no wings, 

 from Tampa, Fla., to aterrimus. 



Specimens Examined.^* — 67: 14 males, 52 females, and 1 nymph. 



*3 The female before us is a macropterous specimen of N. carolinus. 



^* The following abbreviations are used to differentiate the specimens here 

 recorded: b., brachypterous; m., macropterous; I. teg. only, long tegmina only; 

 med., medium; v., very. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



Staten Island, New York, Aug. 22, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Collection], m. 



Cape May County, New Jersey, Aug., 1910, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Collection]. 

 V. b. 



Montgomery County, Maryland, Sept. 2,5, 1911, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Col- 

 lection]. V. b. 



Washington, D. C, .\ug. 24, 29, (Havenstein) 9 9 [U. S. N. M.]. m. but 

 1 1. teg. only. 



Raleigh, North Carolina, Aug. 15, 16, 17, Sept. 6, 12, 190.5, 06, 08, 09, (Brimley) 

 6 9 [Brimley Collection], med. b. but 1 m. 



Florence, South Carolina, Sept. 6, 1911, (R. & H.) 1 cf. b. 



Georgia, 1 d^. Type N. volaticus Sc. 



Jesup, Ga., Sept. 1, 1911, (R. & H.) 1 9 . 1. teg. only. 



Jacksonville, Florida, Nov., 1885, (Ashmead) 1 9 . Paratype A\ aterrimus Sc. 

 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. V. b. 



Sanford, Fla., (Frazer) 1 cf , 1 9 [Scudder Collection]. 



Capron, Fla., Jan. 16, Apr. 12, .3 9 [U. S. N. M. and Scudder Collection], m. 



Tampa, Fla., Jan. 17, 1904, (H.) 1 o", 1 9 . 1. teg. only. 



Lake Worth, Fla., (Slosson) 1 d" , 1 9 [Scudder Collection]. V. b. 



Miami, Fla., Feb. 4, 1903, (H.) 1 d^. m. 



Homestead, Fla., Mar. 17-19, 1910, (H.) 7 a", 14 9,1 n.; July 10-12, 1912, 

 (R. & H.) 1 9 . med. b., 3 c^, 2 9 m. 



Cuba, (Gundlach) 2 cf , 3 9 [Scudder Collection], m. 



Vera Cruz, Vera Cruz, Mexico, (Knab) 1 cf , 8 9 [U. S. N. M.]. m. but 1 

 I. teg. only. 



Castillo, Nicaragua, Feb., 1893, (Shimek) 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. m, 



Nemobius cubensis mormonius Scudder. 



1893. Nemobius sp. Bruner, N. Amer. Fauna, VII, p. 266. [Death Valley 



region (Panamint Valley) and Los Angeles, Cal.] 

 1893. Nemobius cubensis Brunner, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1893, p. 609. 



(In part.) [New Orleans, La.] 

 1896. Nemobius carolinus Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV. p. 107. (In 



part.) [Texas.] 

 1896. Nemobius mexicanus Scudder (not of Walker, 1869), Jour. N. Y. Ent. 



Soc, IV, pp. 100, 106, 107. (In part.) [Mexico, Jalapa, Orizaba and 



Minatitlan, Mex.] 

 1896. Nemobius mormonius Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, pp. 101, 106. 



(Original description.) [St. George, Utah.] 

 1896. Nemobius neomexicanus Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 104. 



(In part.) [Sierra el Taste, Lower Cal.] 

 1896. Nemobius mormonius Scudder, Psyche, VII, p. 433. (New key.) 

 1896. Nemobius cubensis Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 106. (In 



part.) [San Jose del Cabo, Lower Cal.] 



1896. Nemobius mexicanus Scudder (not of Walker, 1869), Psyche, VII, 

 p. 433. (New key.) 



1897. Nemobius cubensis Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, p. 222. 

 [Teapa, Tabasco, Mex.] 



1897. Nemobius comanchus Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, pp. 221, 

 222. (Description.) [Durango and (or) Sinaloa, Mex.] 



1897. Nemobius mexicanus Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, pp. 221, 

 224. (Scudder's wrong characters and records given.) 



1906. Nemobius mexicanus Hart (not of Walker, 1869), Ent. News, XVII, 

 p. 160. [College Station, Tex.] 



1907. Nemobius sp. Rehn, Ent. News, XVIII, p. 212. [Brownsville, Tex.] 



1909. Nemobius cubensis Tucker, Ent. News, XX, p. 297. [Piano, Tex.] 



1910. Nemobius mormonius Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1909, p. 483. [Las Vegas, Nev.] 



The present geographic race varies widely in general appearance, 

 owing probably to the facts that its range includes a great variety of 

 territory, and that as this range includes so much of the semiarid 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



and desert regions of the West, it is found more or less isolated at a 

 great number of localities. Brachypterous individuals somewhat 

 outnumber the macropterous. Though the specimens in each respect- 

 ive series from Texas, from Nevada, and from Vera Cruz, Mex., are 

 quite similar, each series has a decidedly distinctive appearance; 

 intermediates between these are, however, always to be found. 



The general resemblance to A^. carolinus neomexicanus is sometimes 

 so very close that, were it not for the fact that in this species the 

 disto-dorsal spurs of the caudal femora are unequal, while in carolinus 

 neomexicanus they are equal, it would be impossible to distinguish 

 some of the males of the two, though the females are readily separable 

 by the very different characters of the ovipositor as well. 



So different are individuals from the Texan region, the arid South- 

 west and southern Mexico, that there is little wonder that several 

 synonyms of the present insect exist, and it would seem advisable to 

 recognize at least three geographic races, were it not for the fact 

 that practically all of the differences are due to coloration, probably 

 caused by the immediate environment and, as would be expected 

 in such a case, every conceivable intergradation is found in the large 

 series before us. 



The insect differs from N. cubensis in being less slender, in having 



Fig. 23. — Nemobius cubensis mormoniiis. Ovipositor of specimen from Texas. 

 (Greatly magnified.) 



a different color pattern, and in being more mottled and almost 

 always considerably paler in general coloration. The color pattern 

 and its variations, consequently important in determining the present 

 insect, is fully treated in the Color Notes. 



Described from two females and a nymph from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; St. George, Utah. April. 

 (Palmer.) [Scudder Collection.] 



We here describe the paratypic female now in the Hebard Col- 

 lection ex Bruner. 



Size small; form not as slender as in N. cubensis, rather compact; 

 head small, full, and rounded, wider than cephalic width of pronotum. 

 Eyes and maxillary palpi much as in cubensis. Pronotum with length 

 almost equal to caudal width, narrowing very little cephalad. Teg- 

 mina short, covering little over half of abdomen, three-fifths the 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



length of the caudal femora; apex at humeral angle very broadly 

 and roundly obtuse-angulate, distal margin of dorsal field almost 

 transverse, very broadly arcuato-truncate, sutural margin passes 

 into distal margin with a distinct, rather sharply rounded angulation 

 at an angle of slightly more than ninety degrees; intermediate 

 channel not conspicuously depressed and forming part of the dorsal 

 field, this field rounding very slightly; longitudinal veins few but 

 conspicuous, cross-veinlets^^ exceedingly faint. Wings absent. Ovi- 

 positor^*^ a little more than two-thirds as long as the caudal femur, 



^ 



Fig. 2A.—Nemohius cubensis mormonius. Ovipositor of specimen from Vera 

 Cruz, Mex. (Greatly magnified.) 



distinctly though feebly arcuate, form and armament much as in 

 cubensis. Caudal femora and spines of caudal tibiae much as in that 

 species. 



We here select as allotype, a male from Las Vegas, Nevada, taken 

 Sept. 2, 1909, by Rehn and Hebard, and in the Hebard Collection. 



Description of Allotype. — Size smaller than female, proportions 

 much the same. The tegmina are translucent and when in repose 

 the dorsal fields are hemi-elliptical in outline. Wrings absent. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



St. George, Utah. Las Vegas, Nev. 



Type Paratype Allotype 



9 9 d^ d^d^ 9 9 



Length of body 7.5 7. 7. 7. (6.6-7.4) 7.4(6.6-8.2) 



Length of pronotum. 2.2 1.9 1.6 1.6(1.4-1.8) 1.7(1.6-1.9) 



Caudal width of pro- 

 notum 2.3 2.1 2.1 2.1(2.1) 2.2(2.1-2.3) 



Length of tegmina 3. 2.9 4.1 4.1 (3.9-4.3) 2.9 (2.7-3. ) 



Length of caudal 



femur 5. 5. 5. 4.9(4.8-5.) 5.2(5.1-5.3) 



Greatest width of 



caudal femur 2. 2. 2. 1.9(1.7-2.) 2. (2.) 



Length of ovipositor... 3.8 3.8 (3.5-4. ) 



55 These cross-veinlets are so faint in some specimens as to be scarcely visible 

 under a Zeiss binocular. 



56 As the ovipositor of the paratype before us is broken, we have drawn up this 

 portion of the description from the type. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



Beaumont, Tex. 



c^d^ 9 9 c^ 9" 



Length of body 6 . 7 (5 . 3-7 . 5) 7 . 6 (7 . 1-8 . ) 7.2 7.1 



Length of pronotum .. 1.6(1.3-1.8) 1.7(1.6-1.8) 1.4 1.6 

 Caudal width of pro- 

 notum 2. (1.9-2.1) 2. (1.9-2.1) 2.4 2.3 



Length of tegmina 4.5 (4.2-4.8) 3.7 (3. -5. ) 4.4 5.6 



Length of wings 9.4 10.8 



I^ength of caudal 



femur 5. (4.7-5.3) 5.3(5.-5.6) 5.1 5.6 



Greatest width of 



caudal femur 1.9(1.8-2.) 2. (2.) 2. 2. 



Length of ovipositor 3.9(3.6-4.2) '3.4 



Durango Orizaba, Cordoba, Mex. 



or Sinaloa, Mex. (Extremes) . 



9' ^ 9 "" d^cf 9 9 



Length of body 8.5 7.6 6.5 6.8-7.9 7.1-7.9 



Length of pronotum 1.8 1.6 1.8 1.4-1.5 1.4-1.9 



Caudal width of pro- 

 notum 2.3 2.1 2.1 2.1-2.4 2.1-2.2 



Length of tegmina 5.6 4.1 2.9 4.6-5. 4.4-5. 



Length of wings 12.4 10.2-10.4 10. -11.1 



Length of caudal femur 5.8 5. 5.1 5.-5.2 5.1-5.5 

 Greatest width of cau- 

 dal femur 2.3 2. 2. 1.8-2. 2.-2.1 



Length of ovipositor 4.2 3.6 4.-4. 



Averages in Ovipositor Length. 



Galveston, Tex. 3.5(3.4-3.7) 



Brownsville, Tex. 3 . 8 (3 . 5-4 . 1) 



Uvalde, Tex . 3.6(3.2-3.9) 



Fort Yuma, Cal. 3.7 



Los Angeles Co., Cal. 3.8 



Tia Juana, Cal... 3.6 



Jalapa, Mex. 3.7 



Though some amount of variation is shown in each of the series 

 before us, there appears to be little difference in the size and pro- 

 portions of specimens from the various natural divisions of the range 

 of the present insect. As has been noticed in other species, macrop- 

 terous specimens always are found to have the pronotum more 

 widened caudad. 



Color Notes. — The great majority of specimens from Texas are of 



°' This specimen is the type of A^. comanchus Saussure. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



the type of coloration here described. General color mummy brown, 

 inconspicuously marbled with sepia and bistre. Head raw umber, 

 a very narrow line of darker shade extending across the occiput from 

 the caudal margin of the eyes, the remaining caudal portion of the 

 occiput and postocular portion of the gense somewhat paler than the 

 rest of the head. Eyes prouts brown. Maxillary palpi raw umber, 

 the distal half of the terminal segment clove brown. Pronotum 

 mummy brown clouded with bistre, under a Zeiss binocular small 

 dots of wood brown are apparent. Tegmina translucent; of male 

 with dorsal field a very dark shade of bistre particularly pronounced 

 in the proximal portion, discoidal vein obscurely outlined in cream 

 color, lateral fields clove brown ; of female bistre much suffused with 

 raw umber, the longitudinal veins of the dorsal field, the intermediate 

 channel and ventral margin of lateral fields raw umber, remaining 

 portion of lateral fields clove brown. Dorsal surface of abdomen of 

 males and macropterous females (concealed beneath tegmina) 

 shining black; of brachypterous females, proximal (concealed) 

 portion of the same color, remaining portion black somewhat maculate 

 with raw umber and covered with hairs of the same color. Ovi- 

 positor Vandyke brown. Limbs tawny olive slightly mottled with 

 raw umber, the outer face of the caudal femora marked with two 

 faint longitudinal bars of the latter color. 



The material before us from the state of Vera Cruz, Mex., resembles 

 these specimens, but the majority are somewhat darker with a more 

 russet suffusion, and the markings which give most of the specimens 

 from Texas a somewhat marbled appearance are considerably 

 reduced. The distinctive markings of the head are^^, however, in 

 most cases more pronounced. This type of coloration, as well as 

 intermediates between it and the normal Texan type, is represented 

 by a number of specimens from Texas. 



The majority of specimens from Fort Yuma, Cal, and Lower 

 California, are of a very pale desert type of coloration. So pale 

 are these that the color pattern has in most cases almost disappeared. 

 General color wood brown, faintly marked with a darker shade. 

 Head mars brown, a paler caudal portion of the occiput only detect- 

 able under the Zeiss binocular. Disk of pronotum of general color 



^ Scudder, in his treatment of the specimens which are now before us, and 

 which he wrongly considered N. mexicanus, gave these color characters very well 

 in his key, "longitudinal markings of head interrupted at the crown, the whole 

 back portion immaculate, sharply defined from the portions in front at the 

 summit, which is feebly subcarinate transversely." 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF fjune;. 



marbled with a darker shade, lateral lobes heavily marked with very 

 dark bistre. Tegmina mummy brown marked cephalad with dark 

 bistre. Ovipositor burnt umber. Limbs and ventral surface of 

 body wood brown tinged with russet, the longitudinal markings on 

 the outer surface of the caudal femora very faintly indicated. Inter- 

 mediates between this and the normal Texan type are to be found in 

 specimens from San Jose del Cabo, L. Cal., Las Vegas, Nev., and 

 Brownsville, Tex. 



The typical series from St. George, Utah, all of the Californian 

 specimens except those from Fort Yuma, and almost the entire series 

 from Las Vegas, Nev., belong to a color phase closely resembling 

 that of the specimens from Vera Cruz, excepting that these specimens, 

 are not so much tinged with russet, the usually distinctive cephalic 

 markings are very obscure (practically absent in many cases), while 

 the females have the intermediate channel of the tegmina strikingly 

 cream colored. Intermediates between this type of coloration and 

 that of the Mexican series are at hand, but in none of the Texan 

 series is a close approach to this to be found. In all other respects,. 

 however, the specimens are inseparable and consequently not worthy 

 of even racial distinction. 



Distribution. — The present geographic race is known to range from 

 Biloxi, Miss., to the Pacific coast, and southward as far as the state 

 of Tabasco, Mex. The most northern localities at which it has been 

 taken are St. George, Utah, Las Vegas, Nev., and the Panamint 

 Valley, Cal. 



Biological Notes. — In the desert regions of the southwestern. 

 United States this insect is but very occasionally met with in the 

 short grasses growing near streams and other restricted damp areas, 

 but in the semiarid mesquite region of Texas it is widely distributed 

 in the short grasses which are there so frequently encountered; and 

 its range extends still further eastward, where it is found in the 

 typical undergrowth of the long-leaf pine forests. A few macropter- 

 ous specimens have been taken at light at Beaumont, Brownsville, 

 and Del Rio, Tex. ; other than at light this long-winged form has 

 scarcely ever been encountered. 



Morphological Notes. — It is the opinion of the author that the 

 considerable amount of variation found in the present insect is due 

 to its frequent isolation together with its very extensive distribution. 

 Though ranging over all the desert regions of the southwest, this 

 insect, like all other North American Nemobius, is never found unless 

 a certain amount of moisture is present. In its desert distribution 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



there are consequently often hundreds of square miles utterly unfit 

 for the insect, since it is only found where some dampness is derived 

 from a river or stream, a lake, or some subterranean water supply. 

 There is little variation in any of the specimens from the heavier 

 portion of the Texan mesquite belt where its range is not 

 discontinuous. 



Synonymy. — When the present geographic race was described in 

 1896, Scudder wrongly believed a series of specimens of this insect 

 from the state of Vera Cruz, Mex., to belong to the poorly described 

 N. mexicanus of Walker, and he also failed to recognize as such pale 

 specimens of the same from Texas and Lower California which he 

 determined as N. carolinus and A^. neomexicanus (both belonging 

 to the subgenus Eunemobius, which has the disto-ventral spurs of 

 the caudal tibiae equal and the apex of the ovipositor an.ied above 

 and below). 



In 1897, Saussure, supposing Scudder to be correct in his statements, 

 followed him in quoting the records of what Scudder supposed to be 

 mexicanus, but without seeing the material, and so a single specimen 

 of the pale color form of cuhensis mormonius in his possession from 

 Durango or Sinaloa, Mex., was to him apparently new and so de- 

 scribed as A'', comanchus. In the same paper Saussure considered 

 specimens from Tabasco, Mex., to be N. cubensis. 



Hart recorded this insect as N. mexicanus in 1906. 



Specimens Examined. — 1.31: 66 males, 61 females, and 4 nymphs. 



BUoxi, Mississippi, March 11, (F. M. Jones) 1 cT [A. N. S. P.]. b. 



Texas, (Belfrage) 2 cT [Scudder Collection]. 1 m. 



College Station, Tex., Dec. 23, 1905, (Hart) 1 & [111. State Lab. Nat. Hist.], b. 



Beaumont, Tex., July 23, 1912, (H.) 9 d^, 6 ? , 1 n. 1 cf , 2 9 , m. 



Webster, Tex., July 19, 1912, (H.) Id', b. 



Dickinson, Tex., July 20, 1912, (H.) 7 d', 4 9 . b. 



Galveston, Tex., July 19-21, 1912, (H.) 7 d^, 6 9 , 1 n. 19 m. 



Rosenberg, Tex., July 25, 26, 1912, (H.) 1 9 . b. 



Columbus, Tex., Dec. 15, 1878, (Schwartz) 2 d', 2 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Under 

 old leaves near Brazos River. Sm. b. 



Kerrville, Tex., Aug. 17, 18, 1912, (R. and H.) 1 d'. b 



Victoria, Tex., Aug. 8, 1902, (W. E. Hinds) 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Lg. m. 



Brownsville, Tex., June, (Snow) 2 9 [A. N. S. P.]. m.; May 1, 4, 1904, 

 (Barber) 3 9 [U. S. N. M.]. sm. m.; July 31-Aug. 5, 1912, (R. and H.) 7 cf , 

 6 9 , 1 n. 2 9m.; June 23, 1908, Nov. 21, 24, Dec. 19, 1910 (Hart) 3 d', 7 9 . 

 1 n. [111. State Lab. Nat. Hist.]. 1 d', 3 9 m. 

 .Piper Plantation, Brownsville, Tex., Aug. 3, 1912, (R. and H.) 1 d", 2 9 . 

 9 9 m. 



Esperanza Plantation, Brownsville, Tex., May 3, 1903, (Schaeffer) 1 9 [Bklyn. 

 Inst. A. and S.]. b. 



Uvalde, Tex., Aug. 21, 22, 1912. (R. and H.) 5 d', 4 9 . b. 



Del Rio, Tex., Aug. 22, 23, 1912, (R. and H.) 2 cf , 1 9 . m. 



St. George, Utah, April, (Palmer) 2 9 , 1 n. Type and Paratypes [Scudder 

 and Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. Dk. b. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Las Vegas, Nevada, Aug. 10, 1907, (H.) 2 d', 1 9 . b.; Sept. 2, 1909, (R. and 

 H.) 5 c?, 7 9. Dk. b. 



Fort Yuma, California, (Wickham) 1 cf , 2 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. 

 V. pi. m. 



Panamint Valley, Cal., (Koebele) 1 d' [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. Dk. b. 



Tia Juana, Cal., Aug. 16, 1907, (H.) 19. Dk. b. 



Los Angeles County, Cal., (Coquillett) 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. Dk. b. 



Mexico, (Sumichrast) 2 cT, 1 9 [Scudder Collection], b. 



Sierra el Taste, Lower California, 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. V. pi. m. 



San Jose del Cabo, L. Cal., 1 cf , 3 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. Lg. m. 



Durango or Sinaloa, Mexico, (Forrer) 1 9 . Type of N. comanchus. [Biologia 

 Collection in Br. Mus.]. Lg. v. pi. b. 



Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mex., 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. b. 



Medellin. V. C, Mex., 2 cf [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. 1 m. 



Orizaba, V. C, Mex., Nov., 1887, (Bruner) 1 cf, 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex 

 Bruner]. b. 



San Rafael, V. C, Mex., (Townsend) 1 cf [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. m. 



Minatitlan, V. C, Mex., Feb. 1, 1892, 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. b. 



Teapa, Tabasco, Mex., (H. H. Smith) 1 cf [Biologia Collection in Br. Mus.]. b. 



Nemobius palustris Blatchley. 



1896. Nemobius carolinus Scudder, Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 107. (In 

 part.) [South Kent and Canaan, Conn.] 



1900. Nemobius palustris Blatchley, Psyche, IX, p. 53. (Original descrip- 

 tion.) [Northern Indiana. Tamarack swamps and cranberry bogs.] 



1903. Nemobius palustris Blatchley, Orth. of Indiana, pp. 421, 427, 428. 

 [Marshall, Fulton, and Starke Counties, Ind. In sphagnum mosses of 

 swamps and bogs.] 



1904. Nemobius palustris E. M. Walker, 34th Ann. Rept. Ent. Soc. Ont.,. 

 No. 19, p. 97. [Algonquin Park, Ont. In sphagnum moss of floating 

 cranberry bog.] 



1904. Nemobius palustris E. M. Walker, Can Ent., XXXVI, pp. 182, 185. 



[Ragged Lake, Algonquin Park, Ont. In sphagnum swamp. Recorded 



material.] 

 1906. Nemobius palustris Morse, Psyche, XIII, p. 158. [Wellesley, Dover, 



and Natick, Mass. Sphagnum moss of bogs and wet meadows.] 



1909. Nemobius palustris Davis, Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XVII, p. 188. [Low- 

 lands of Lakehurst and at Lake Hopatcong, N. J.] 



1910. Nemobius palustris Rehn in Smith, Ann. Rept. N. J. State Mus., 

 1909, p. 192. [Stafford's Forge, N. J.] 



1911. Nemobius palustris Walden, Bull. 16, State of Conn., St. Geol. and 

 Nat. Hist. Surv., pp. 151, 152, 153. [Salisbury, Lyme, and New Haven, 

 Conn. Swampy places, often in sphagnum moss.] 



This species, the smallest of the North American members of the 

 genus, may be separated from the other North American species of 

 Nemobius belonging to the subgenus Neonemobius by its very small 

 size, slender build, and very dark solid coloration. 



The species resembles N. confusus closely in general appearance, 

 but examination quickly shows that species to belong to the subgenus 

 Eunemobius. 



The closest affinity is found in N. cubensis, from which species it 

 differs in being smaller in the great majority of cases, of darker and 

 more solid coloration, without tegminal markings of any kind. 

 In the male the tegmina are almost always less broad, and in the 

 female are usually more abbreviate. 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



469 



Described from an unspecified series of specimens from northern 

 Indiana. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Fulton County, Indiana. 

 October 5, 1898. (Blatchley.) [Blatchley Collection]. 



Descriptioji of Type. — Size very small and form slender for the 

 genus, head small, but full and rounded, wider than the cephalic 

 width of the pronotum. Maxillary palpi of 

 much the same form as in N.fasciatus, but with 

 segments not as much produced. Eyes broad- 

 ovate, not prominent. Pronotum^^ of much 

 the same proportions as in fasciatus, but of 

 smaller relative size to the rest of the body. 

 Tegmina very shghtly more than half as long 

 as the caudal femora; apex at humeral angle, 

 very broadly and roundly obtuse-angulate; 

 distal margin of dorsal field very slightly 

 oblique, very broadly arcuato-truncate ; sutural 

 margin passes into distal margin with a dis- 

 tinct but broadly rounded angulation at an 

 angle of slightly more than ninety degrees; 

 intermediate channel not- conspicuously de- 

 pressed and forming part of the dorsal field, this field unusually 

 evenly rounded; longitudinal veins very conspicuous, cross-veinlets 

 very few and extremely obscure. Wings absent. Ovipositor about 

 two-thirds as long as caudal femora, distinctly though feebly 

 arcuate; apex of same narrowly sublanceolate, with that portion 

 formed by the dorsal valves armed, the upper margin serrulate, 



Fig. 25. — iV e m obi us 

 palnstris. D o x- s a 1 

 view of type, female. 

 (X 3.) 



Fig. 26. — Nemobiusjpalustris. Ovipositor. (Greatly magnified.) 



these serrulations regular, minute, sharp, as closely arranged as in 

 N. cuhensis. Caudal femora with greatest (meso-cephalic) width 

 contained slightl}^ more than three times in the length. Spines of 

 caudal tibiae considerably more slender than in fasciatus and supplied 

 with fewer hairs. 



^^ The series of the present species before us shows that though the majority 

 have the pronotum narrowing very slightly cephalad, some few have the cephalic 

 and caudal width of the same subequal, while in other specimens the pronotum 

 narrows decidedly cephalad. 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



A male in the Blatchley Collection, bearing the same data as the 

 type, is here selected as the allotype. 



Description of Allotype. — Size smaller, proportions somewhat more 

 slender than in the female. The tegmina are translucent and when 

 in repose the dorsal fields are very narrowly hemi-ellipitical in 

 outline. Wings absent. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Fulton County, Ind. 

 Type. Allotype. Average of topotj'pes. 



9 cf 9 9 d'd' ^ 



Length of body 6.2 5.8 6 . 1 (5 . 9-6 . 4) 5 . 7 (5 . 2-6 . 2) 



Length of pronotum 1.4 1.2 1.5(1.3-1.6) 1.3(1.-1.5) 



Caudal width of pro- 

 notum 2. 1.9 2. (1.8-2.1) 1.9(1.6-2.1) 



Length of tegmen 2.5 4. 2.4(2.1-2.8) 3.9(3.8-4.) 



Length of caudal femur 4.8 4.6 4.6(4.-4.9) 4.6(4.2-5.) 



Greatest width of cau- 

 dal femur 1.6 1.6 1 .7 (1 .4-1 .8) 1 .6 (1 .3-1 .7) 



Length of ovipositor 3.4 3.2(3.1-3.4) 



Ragged Lake, 

 Algonquin Park, Natiek, Dover, Wilmington, 

 Ont. Mass. Mass. N. C. 



^9 cT 9 cf 9 cT' 



Length of body 6. 5.3 6.8 6.2 6.8 5.7 



Length of pronotum 1. 1. 1.6 1.4 1.9 1.4 



Caudal width of pro- 

 notum 1.8 1.6 1.9 1.9 2.4 2. 



Length of tegmen 2.7 3.4 3.2 3.7 3.1 3.9 



Length of caudal femur .. 4.1 3.9 4.6 4.8 5.4 4.8 

 Greatest width of cau- 

 dal femur 1.3 1.4 1.7 1.7 2.1 1.8 



Length of ovipositor 3.6 3.7 3.8 



The specimens from Ontario are the smallest before us, while those 

 from North Carolina are the largest. Additional material at hand 

 bears out this evidence that the species increases in size very gradually 

 from north to south over its range. Comparatively little variation 

 IS shown, however, in the present species. 



Color Notes. — The types here described are of the same coloration 

 as the majority of topotypic specimens before us. The head, pro- 

 notum, and limbs are solid Vandyke brown. Maxillary palpi Vandyke 

 brown with the exception of the terminal joint which is wholly clove 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



brown. Tegmina and dorsal surface of abdomen dark clove brown. 

 Ovipositor dark Vandyke brown. 



The majority of specimens not from Indiana are, however, some- 

 what differently colored. These specimens have the entire dorsal 

 surface of the body dark clove brown, while underneath the usual 

 coloration is raw umber. In such specmiens the maxillary palpi 

 usually have the third joint a rather light brown, the penultimate 

 joint considerably paler and the terminal joint wholly clove brown. 

 Both males and females of the present species have a rather shiny 

 appearance. 



Distribution. — The present species has been found on the Atlantic 

 coast from Natick and Dover, Mass., to Wilmington and Lake 

 Waccamaw, N. C, and inland has been taken as far north as Algon- 

 quin Park, Ont., and as far west as Starke County, Ind. 



It is a swamp and bog inhabiting species, and is consequentlj^ very 

 local in distribution. 



Biological Notes. — The present species is extremely secretive, 

 living in the recesses of swamps and bogs, usually in and about 

 sphagnum mosses. In such situations palustris may sometimes be 

 found in very large numbers, but the peculiar habitat combined with 

 the small size and sombre coloration of the insects themselves, 

 explains their usual scarcity in collections. When disturbed, indi- 

 viduals of })alustris leap about vigorouslj^ and then burrow into the 

 sphagnum mosses or hide under roots or debris. Dr. Walker de- 

 scribes the song of this species as "a continuous and rather feeble 

 trill" and notes a similarity to that of carolimis. 



No macropterous specimens of the species have been taken, and 

 it is our opinion that such do not occur, owing to the fact that in the 

 present species the reduction of the tegmina has reached a rather 

 advanced stage and is found to vary to an extremely small degree. 



Synonymy. — No synonyms of the present species have occurred, 

 but AUard has unfortunately recorded small dark specimens of 

 N. fasciatus as this species. 



Specimens Examined. — 56: 28 males, 28 females. 



Ragged Lake, Algonquin Park, Ontario, Aug. 18, 1903, (E. M. Walker) 2 cT, 

 3 ? [University of Toronto and Blatchley Collection]. 



Fulton County, Indiana, Oct. 5, 1898, (Blatchley) 2 d^, 2 9 . Type, Allotype, 

 Paratvpes. [Blatchley Collection, U. S. N. M.]; Aug. 15, 1902, (Blatchlev) 5 d" , 

 6 9 [t'. S. X. M., A. N. S. P., Hebard Collection]. 



Natick, Massachusetts, Oct. 16, 1905, (from Morse) 3 9 [Hebard Collection]. 



Dover, Mass., Oct. 11, 1905, (from Morse) Sd", 1 9 [Hebard and Blatchley 

 Collection]. 



New Haven, Connecticut, Aug. 18, 1910, (Walden) 1 cf', 1 9 [Hebard Col- 

 lection]. 

 31 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Lake Hopatcong, New Jersey, Aug. 30, 1908, (Davis) 1 c? [Davis Collection]. 

 Lakehurst, N. J., Sept. 3, 14, 1907, (Davis) 2 d', 2 9 [Davis Collection]. 

 Stafford's Forge, Ocean County, N. J., Sept. 16, 1905, (H.) 4 d". 

 Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania, Sept., 1903, (H.) 2 9 . 

 Tinicum Island, Pa., Sept. 19, 1908, (R. and H.) 1 9 . 

 Washington, D. C, Sept. 23, 1911, (Davis) 1 d' [Davis Collection]. 

 Fayetteville, North Carolina, Sept. 9, 1911, (R. and H.) 3 d^, 2 9. 

 Lake Waccamaw, N. C, Sept. 8, 1911, (R. and H.) 1 d^. 

 Wilmington, N. C, Sept. 8, 1911, (R. and H.) 3 cf, 5 9 . 



Nemobius palustris aurantius Rehn and Hebard. 



1905. Nemobius carolirms (not of Scudder, 1877) Rehn and Hebard, Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 801. [Thomasville, Ga. In beds of 

 sphagnum.] 



1911. Nemobius palustris aurantius Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1911, p. 597. (Original description.) [Same material as 1905.] 



1912. Nemobius palustris aurantius Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 109. (Single Type fixation.) 



Tlie present insect is in all probability a southern race of N. palus- 

 tris, distinguished only from that species by its peculiar and striking 

 coloration. Unsuccessful efforts have been made to obtain additional 

 material from the region in which the type series was taken, and 

 until this can be done it is, in our opinion, advisable to consider the 

 present insect a geographic race, although it may eventually prove 

 to be a mere color variety. 



Type: d^; Thomasville, Georgia. In sphagnum. December 6, 

 1903. (Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Type. — The head, pronotum, and ventral surface of 

 the insect is ochraceous-rufous, the limbs almost uniform ochraceous, 

 and the tegmina and dorsal portion of the abdomen shining black. 

 The maxillary palpi are pale yellowish, with the exception of the last 

 segment, which is darker at the base, shading to clove brown in the 

 apical half. 



The female allotype, here selected, bears the same data as the 

 type and is in the same collection; it is slightly larger than the type, 

 but of the same coloration. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Thomasville, Ga. 



Type. Allotype. Average of paratypic series, 



cf 9 d^cf 9 9 



Length of body 6.5 7. 6.2(6. -6.5) 6.2(5.9-6.7) 



Length of pronotum 1.2 1.5 1.1(1.-1.2) 1.4(1.3-1.5) 



Caudal width of pronotum 1.8 1.9 1.7(1.6-1.8) 1.9(1.8-2.1) 



Length of tegmina 3.8 3.2 3.9(3.8-4.) 2.6(2.1-3.) 



Length of caudal femur 4.2 4.8 4 . 3 (4 . 1-4 . 6) 4 . 6 (4 . 4-5 . ) 



Greatest width of caudal 



femur 1.4 1.8 1.6(1.4-1.8) 1.8(1.7-1.9) 



Length of ovipositor 3.5 3.6 (3.2-3.9) 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



Color Notes. — The contrasting and solid coloration given in the 

 description is distinctive and varies but little in tone in the series. 



Distribution.- — The insect is known only from Thomasville, in 

 southwestern Georgia. 



Biological Notes. — The series was taken near the town in a small 

 area of moist ground where the pine woods gave way to the magnolias 

 and beeches of the "branch" forest growth. All of the specimens 

 were captured in sphagnum growing among the roots of these latter 

 trees. The entire series is brachypterous. 



Specimens Examined. — 13: 5 males, 8 females. 



Thomasville, Ga., December 6, 1903, (H.) 5 cf, 8 Q. Type, 

 allotype, paratypes. [Hebard and A. N. S. P. Collection.] 



Subgenus EUNEMOBIUS n. subgen. 



This distinctive subgenus includes two species and two geographic 

 races from North America. Type of subgenus — Nemohius carolinus 

 Scudder. 



Suhgeneric Description. — Size medium for the genus. Disto-- 

 ventral spurs of caudal tibia equal in length. Proximal and distal 

 internal spines of male specialized as described under Morphological 

 Notes for the genus; other spines of caudal tibia below concave, with 

 margins of this sulcation smooth in both sexes. Ovipositor very 

 short, almost always less than two-thirds the length of the caudal 

 femur, gently curved; apex with dorsal margin armed with heavy 

 teeth, ventral margin armed with minute, widely spaced serrulations. 

 Ventral segments of abdomen in male broadened, extending outward 

 and upward on sides of abdomen above the normal dorsal segments, 

 thus making the abdomen unusually broad and its entire dorsal 

 surface concave. 



The present subgenus is widely separated from the other North 

 American subgenera by the majority of the characters given above. 



Nemobius carolinus Scudder. 



1876. Nemobius exiguus Provancher (not Acheta exigua Say, 1825), Nat. 

 Can., VIII, p. 61. [Province of Quebec, Can.] 



1877. Nemobius carolinus Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XIX, p. 36. 

 (Original description.) [North Carolina.] 



1877. Ne7tiobius volaticus Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XIX, p. 36. 



(In part.) (Description of 9 •) [Georgia.] 

 1877. Nemobius {Anaxipha) septentrionalis Provancher, Nat. Can., IX, 



p. 292. (Correction of name used in 1876.) 

 1877. Nemobius (Anexipha) septentrionalis Provancher, Faune Ent. Can., 



II, p. 24. (Description.) (Records of 1876.) 

 1887. Nemobius (Anexipha) septentrionalis Caulfield, Can. Rec. Sci., II, 



p. 393. [Montreal, Quebec and Rat Portage, Can.] 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



1889. Nemobius vittatus Davis, Ent. Am., V, p. 79. (In part.) [Staten 

 Island, N. Y. "Small form generally included."] 



1892. Nemobius exiguus Blatchley (not Acheta exigua Say, 1825), Proc. 

 Ind. Acad. Sci., 1891, p. 136. [Indiana. Very common.] 



1893. Nemobius exiguus (?) Bruner (not Acheta exigua Say, 1825), Publ. 

 Nebr. Acad. Sci., Ill, p. 32. [Eastern half of Nebraska. Not at all rare.] 



1893. Nemobius volaticus (?) Bruner (In part of Scudder, 1877), Publ. Nebr. 

 Acad. Sci., Ill, p. 32. [Timbered district of eastern Nebraska.] 



1894. Nemobius affinis Beutenmiiller, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., VI, pp. 

 249, 250, 267, PI. 5, fig. 11. (Description.) [New York, N. Y.] 



1896. Nemobius carolinus Scudder, Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, pp. 100, 107. 



(In part.) [Jackman and Norway, Me.; Blue Hill, Milton, and Adams, 



Mass.; Ithaca, N. Y.; Orange, N. J.; Maryland; Vigo County, Ind.; 



District of Columbia; Virginia; Lake Worth and Lake Okechobee, Fla.; 



New Orleans, La.; Texas; Lincoln, West Point, and South Bend, Nebr.] 

 1896. Nemobius cubensis Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 105. (In 



part.) [Ogle County and Chicago, 111.; Norway, Me.; Charlotte Harbor 



and Indian River, Fla.] 



1896. Nemobius carolinus Scudder, Psyche, VII, p. 433. (New key.) 

 1869. Nemobius carolinus Davis, Proc. Nat. Sci. Assn. Staten Id., V, p. 96. 



■ (Notes, nomenclatural and on stridulation.) 



1897. Nemobius carolinus Ball, Proc. Iowa Acad. Sci., IV, p. 236. Iowa. 

 Common in woods. 



1897. Nemobius carolinus Blatchley, Ins. in Gen. and Orth. Ind. in Particu- 

 lar, p. 23. [Indiana.] 



1898. Nemobius socius Lugger (not of Scudder, 1877), Orth. Minn., p. 263. 

 [St. Paul, Minn.] 



1898. Nemobius exiguus Lugger (not Acheta exigua Say, 1825), Orth. Minn., 



p. 268. [Minnesota.] 

 1900. Nemobius exiguus Blatchley, Psyche, IX, pp. 53, 54. (Description.) 



[Indiana. Half as common as N. fasciatus.] 

 1900. Nemobius carolinus Scudder, Psyche, IX, p. 104. [Connecticut. 



Not common in New England.] 

 1900. Nemobius cubensis Scudder (not of Saussure, 1874), Psyche, IX, p. 104. 



(Previous incorrect record.) 

 1900. Nemobius affinis Smith, Ins. of New Jersey, p. 164. [Staten Island, 



N. Y. Common.] 



1902. Nemobius palustris E. M. Walker (not of Blatchley, 1900), 32d Ann. 

 Rept. Ent. Soc. Ont., 1901, No. 19, p. 109. [Lake Simcoe, Sarnia, South- 

 ampton and Owen Sound, Ont.] 



1903. Nemobius exiguus Blatchley, Orth. of Indiana, pp. 420, 426. (General 

 information.) 



1904. Nemobius confusus E. M. Walker (not of Blatchlev, 1903), 34th Ann. 

 Rept. Ent. Soc. Ont., 1903, No. 19, p. 97. (Wrong correction.) 



1904. Nemobius angusticollis E. M. Walker, Can. Ent., XXXVI, pp. 182, 

 186. (Description.) [Toronto, de Grassi Point on Lake Simcoe and 

 Severn River, Ont.] (Correction 1902 and 1904 records.) 



1904. Nemobius carolinus Rehn, Ent. News, XV, p. 331. [Atsion and West 

 Creek, N. J.] 



1904. Nemobius exiguus Mead, Dept. Zool. Ent. Ohio State Univ., No. 19, 

 p. 112. [Ohio.] 



1905. Nemobius exiguus Isely, Trans. Kansas Acad. Sci., p. 248. [Fairview, 

 Clearwater, and Wichita, Ivans. Under stones in wet places.] 



1905. Nemobius carolinus Isely, Trans. Kansas Acad. Sci., p. 248. [Dale's 



Pond, near Wichita, Kan.] 

 1905. Nemobius exiguus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1904, p. 800. [Thomasville and Ocklockonee River (Thomas County), 



Ga.] 



1905. Nemobius cubensis Rehn and Hebard (not of Saussure, 1874), Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 800. [Thomasville, Ga.] 



1906. Nemobius carolinus Hart, Ent. News, XVII, p. 160. [Brazos River 

 bottoms near College Station and Houston, Tex.] 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



1906. Nemohius palustris Morse, Psyche, XIII, p. 158. (In part.) (Scud- 

 der's incorrect 1896 records given.) 



1906. Nemohius janus Kirby, Sjmon. Catal. Orth., II, p. 19. (New name 

 proposed.) 



1907. Nernobius carolinus Hart, Bull. Illinois State Lab. Nat. Hist., VII, 

 No. VII, p. 235. [Thompson Lake, lU. In damp woods.] 



1908. {Nemobius) exiguus Brimley, Ent. News, XIX, p. 21. [Raleigh, N. C. 

 Lowland and upland in damp places.] 



1908. (Nemobius) carolinus Brimley, Ent. News, XIX, p. 21. [Raleigh, 

 N. C] 



1909. Nemobius Carolina Hebard, Ent. News, XX, p. 115. [Thomasville, 

 Ga. In "branch."] 



1909. Nemobius carolinus E. M. Walker, Can. Ent., XLI, pp. 144, 211. 

 [Temagami District, Ont. Common.] 



1910. N{emobius) ajfmis Insert by Smith in Rehn in Smith, Ann. Rept. 

 N. J. State Mus., 1909, p. 192. (New Jersey notes.) 



1910. N{emobius) carolinus Rehn et al. in Smith, Ann. Kept. N. J. State 

 Mus., 1909, p. 192. [Mahwah, Ft. Lee, Cranford, Brookside, Lakehurst, 

 Jamesburg and Stafford's Forge, N. J.; Staten Island, N. Y.] 



1910. N{emobius) janus Rehn in Smith, Ann. Rept. N. J. State Mus., 1909, 

 p. 192. [National Park, N. J.] 



1911. Nemobius janus Allard, Ent. News, XXII, p. 37. [Washington, 

 District of Columbia.] 



1911. Nemobius aterrimus Rehn and Hebard (not of Scudder, 1896), Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 596. [Bainbridge. Ga.] 

 1911. Nemobius cubensis Rehn and Hebard (not of Saussure, 1874), Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 596. [Bainbridge, Ga.] 

 1911. Nemobius carolinus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1910, p. 647. [Balsam and Raleigh, N. C] 

 1911. Nemobius janus Allard, Ent. News, XXII, p. 157. (Additional notes.) 

 1911. N(emobius) carolinus Walden, Bull. 16, State Conn. State Geol. Nat. 



Hist. Surv., pp. 151, 152. [West Woodstock and Lyme, Conn. Not 



common. Sunny spots in open woods.] 



1911. Nemobius carolinus Sherman and Brimley, Ent. News, XXII, p. 391. 

 [Raleigh westward in North CaroUna.] 



1912. N^emobius carolinus Washburn, Jn. Econ. Ent., V, No. 2, p. 117. 

 [Fergus Falls, Minn.] 



1912. Nemobius carolinus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1912, p. 273. [Homestead, Fla.] 



This species, type of the subgenus Eimemobius, is very different 

 from N. confusus, the only other known North American species 

 belonging to that subgenus. The present insect is almost invariably 

 larger in size, has a more robust structure, less glossy appearance, 

 different color pattern and usually paler coloration; it has also 

 differently colored maxillary palpi and a very different ovipositor 

 in the female. The coloration of the maxillary palpi is of the greatest 

 value as a certain and ready character for the separation of the two 

 species. 



Like N. cubensis, the present species has a widely distributed paler 

 western race, but, unlike that species, the great majority of macrop- 

 terous individuals are found in the western series. 



Based on an unspecified series from North Carolina. 



Single type here designated: d^; North Carolina. [Scudder 

 Collection.] 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



We here describe a female taken at Lake Waccamaw, N. C, 

 September 8, 1911, by Rehn and Hebard and in the Hebard Col- 

 lection. 



Size medimii, form rather stout, head small but prominent and 

 wider than cephalic width of pronotum, interantennal projection 

 moderate. Eyes small but prominent, broad-ovate, proportionately 

 broader than in A^ fasciatus, moderately protruding. Maxillary 

 palpi of much the same form as in that species, but less attenuate. 

 Pronotum with length contained nearly one and two-fifths times in 

 width, narrowing very slightly cephalad, but more abruptly in cephalic 

 third; with a median impressed line more noticeable in the cephalic 

 portion. Tegmina^^ very slightly more than half as long as caudal 



Fig. 27. — Nemobiiis carolinus. Ovipositor. (Greatly magnified.) 



femur; longitudinal veins decided, not as conspicuous as in N. 

 confusus, cross-veinlets very faint. Wings absent. Ovipositor 

 slightly less than two-thirds the length of the caudal femur, distinctly 

 though feebly arcuate; apex of same narrowly sublanceolate, with 

 both dorsal and ventral margins armed, the former with heavy, 

 rather widely separated teeth, the latter with minute very widely 

 spaced serrulations. Limbs delicate, spines of caudal tibia? rather 

 slender. 



We here describe a male bearing the same data as the female 

 described above. 



Slightly smaller but proportionately broader, particularly in the 

 abdominal portion. Tegmina transparent and delicate, very broad 

 and completely enveloping all but the ventral surface of the pecu- 

 liarly broadened abdomen; when in repose the dorsal fields are very 

 flat and hemi-elliptical in outline, the lateral margins slightly bowed, 

 subparallel. Wings absent. The ventral segments of the abdomen 

 are extremely broadened and extend outward and upward on the 

 sides of the abdomen above the normal dorsal segments, thus making 

 the abdomen unusually broad and its entire dorsal surface deeply 

 concave. 



60 The form of the female tegmina is useless as a character in the present species 

 owing to its variabiUty. We have before us brachypterous specimens ranging 

 from those which have the distal margins of the dorsal field transverse, to those 

 which have these margins decidedly oblique, the degree of angulation of the 

 tegmina also varying considerably. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



North Lake Waccamaw, N. C. 

 Carolina " < 



Type d' d' d" ? 9 



Length of body 7.6 8 . 5 (8 . 2-8 . 8) 7 . 2 (6 . 3-8 . 4) 



Length of pronotum 2. 1.8(1.7-2. ) 1.9(1.6-2. ) 



Caudal width of pronotum . 2.7 2 . 7 (2 . 5-2 . 9) 2 . 4 (2 . -2 . 7) 



Length of tegmina 5.2 5 .4 (5 . -5 .8) 3 . (2.9-3.4) 



Length of wings 



Length of caudal femur 6.2 6 . 1 (5 . 9-6 . 4) 5 . 8 (5 . -6 . 4) 



Greatest width of caudal 



femur 2.3 2.2(2. -2.5) 2.1(1.9-2.2) 



Length of ovipositor ' 3.5 (2.6-3.8) 



Chestnut Hill, Pa. 



d^ 9 9 d' 9~^ 



Length of body 7.4(6.9-7.8) 7.2(6.4-7.8) 7.7 6.7 



Length of pronotum 1.8(1.7-2.) 1.7(1.6-1.9) 1.6 1.7 



Caudal width of prono- 

 tum 2.6(2.1-2.8) 2.4(2.1-2.7) 2.6 2.7 



Length of tegmina 5 . 1 (4 . 8-5 . 4) 3 . 5 (3 . 3-3 . 7) 5 . 4.4 



Length of wings ' 9.2 10.4 



Lengthof caudal femur . 5.5 (5.8-6. ) 5.4 (5. -6. ) 5.5 5.7 

 Greatest width of caudal 



femur 2. (1.9-2.1) 2.1(2.-2.3) 1.9 2. 



Length of ovipositor 3.5(3.2-3.8) 3.5 



Averages in Extremes in female 



ovipositor length. tegminal length. 



De Grassi Point, Ont 3 . 7 (3 . 6-3 . 9) 3.5-3.7 



Raleigh, N. C 3.2 (3. -3.4) 3. -3.4 



Florence, S. C 3.5 (3.1-3.7) 3. -3.8 



Thomasville, Ga 3.1(3. -3.2) 2.4-3. 



Beaumont, Tex 3 . 2 (3 . 1-3 . 4) 3.-3.2 



The specimens before us indicate that there is a certain amount of 

 decrease in both ovipositor and tegminal length in female specimens 

 of the present species southward in its distribution. In size the 

 species is somewhat variable over its entire range, the smallest 

 specimens before us being found in series from Ontario, Pennsylvania, 

 Georgia, and Florida. Macropterous specimens are exceedingly 

 scarce in the north, almost all of the long-winged specimens before 

 us are from Georgia and Florida. 



Color Notes. — The individuals here described are typical of the 

 majority of the specimens at hand. Head very dark mummy brown, 

 the faintest kind of longitudinal lineation barely suggested on the 

 caudal portion of the occiput, which portion is slightly paler than 




478 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



the rest of the head. Eyes very dark brown. Maxillary palpi 

 cream color, the first three segments and base of the fourth much 

 suffused with very dark brown, terminal segment cream color with 

 the immediate apex very dark brown. Pronotum very dark mummy 

 brown, shading to almost black on the lateral lobes. Tegmina of 

 both sexes dark mummy brown, shining, transparent ; intermediate 

 channel of the same color as the other portions. Limbs raw umber, 

 above very slightly maculate with mummy brown. Under portions 

 of limbs and body raw umber. Entire dorsal surface of abdomen of 

 male (concealed) and concealed portion of same in female very dark 

 brown, polished; exposed portion of same in female very dark mummy 

 brown marked with four regular rows of small raw-umber spots. 



In the large series of specimens before us there are many some- 

 what paler or darker than those here described. In the lighter 

 specimens the dark lateral lobes of the pronotum are usually much 

 more noticeable and the spots on the exposed dorsal surface of the 

 abdomen in the female are more distinct. The pale color of the 

 maxillary palpi is more yellowish. 



The darker specimens are often almost black on the dorsal surface, 

 the ventral surface mummy brown. The spots on the exposed 

 dorsal surface of the abdomen in the female are greatly reduced or 

 wholly absent. The pale color of the maxillary palpi is almost 

 always white with no yellowish suffusion. 



The markings of the maxillary palpi in this species varies from a 

 type having the apical half of the ultimate joint darkened, to one 

 which bears only a trace of this dark coloration at the extreme apex; 

 this trace of darker coloration is never missing, however, and serves 

 as a character to separate this species from A'', confusus. 



Distribution. — This insect is known from the province of Quebec 

 to the most southern portion of the mainland of Florida, and 

 west to the great plains and the mesquite region of Texas. 



Aside from N. fasciatus and its southern race, this species is 

 the most abundant of the genus over almost its entire range. Only 

 in extreme southern Florida is this not true, where N. cuhensis 

 is the most plentiful of the species of the genus. The present 

 insect may be found in a great variety of situations; it appears 

 to prefer thick grasses growing along the edges of woodlands, 

 the leaf-covered almost bare ground about streams and ponds 

 in heavy woods, dark swamps, or marsh land under cat-tails. The 

 song is a high-pitched and continuous trill, more pleasant to the 

 ear than that of N. fasciatus. The majority of southern macropterous 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



specimens before us were taken when attracted to light at night. 

 Specimens taken on the border of woodlands and in marshlands are^ 

 as would be expected, usually pale, while those from the other situa- 

 tions mentioned are almost always dark; no other differences of any 

 kind exist between these. 



Biologicai Notes. — We find that the peculiarly developed abdomen 

 of the males of the present species acts as a sounding-board for the 

 tympanum. The tegmina fit tightly over the raised margins of the 

 concave dorsal surface of the abdomen in this sex, their apex just 

 covering and fitting closely to the distal extremity of the abdomen. 



Small, dark macropterous specimens of this species from the 

 southern United States have been recorded as N. cuhensis owing to 

 their great superficial resemblance to that species, which, however, 

 belongs to a different subgenus having very different characters. 

 Over the greater portion of the range of this species, macropterous 

 individuals are exceedingly scarce. 



Synony?ny. — In 1776, Provancher recorded the present species as 

 Nemohius exiguus. This was doubtless due to the fact that at that 

 time Scudder had not properly placed Say's Acheta exigua,^^ which 

 species is now known to belong to the genus Anaxipha, for Scudder 

 had used the name Nemohius exiguus to record specimens which he 

 realized later belonged in fact to N. fasciatus. 



In 1877, Scudder, described Nemohius volaticus, the males of which 

 are macropterous specimens of N. cuhensis, the females macropterous 

 specimens of N . carolinus, as an examination of the types clearly 

 shows. 



In October of 1877, Provancher corrected his 1876 record, using 

 Nemohius (Anaxipha) septentrionalis, as suggested by Scudder (who 

 did not realize that his own species, described the previous April as 

 Nemohius carolinus, was the same) but without describing the species ; 

 the next month, however, he described the insect under that name. 



This name was again used by Caulfield in 1887, and first placed 

 in the synonymy under the present species by E. M. Walker in 1909, 

 though Davis recognized this fact as early as 1896. 



In 1890, Smith wrongly used the name Nemohius exiguus in giving 

 Davis' correct record of Anaxipha exigua.^- 



In 1892, Blatchley used the name Nemohius exiguus, and in 1900, 

 considering it a new species, he gave under the same name a full 

 description, but, as he was unable to validate a name based originally 



" 1825. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., IV, p. .309. 

 ^^ Am. Nat., XXII, p. 1148. 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



by Scudder on a misidentification, this name could not stand even if 

 Blatchley's species were not an absolute synonym of Scudder's 

 N. carolinus, as a comparison of a topotypic series of the former from 

 Blatchley with the type of the latter shows us beyond the slightest 

 doubt. Blatchley cannot in any way be criticised for believing the 

 species undescribed, for Scudder, having examined specimens for 

 him, identified individuals of Nemohius bruneri (described in the 

 present paper and then known only by the latter from specimens 

 bearing Bruner's invalid name Cyrtoxyphus (?) variegatus) as Nemohius 

 carolinus, and advised him to describe specimens of true Nemohius 

 carolinus, Scudder's own species, as new. This great carelessness 

 resulted in Nemohius carolinus being recorded as Nemohius exiguus 

 by Bruner (with a query) in 1893, Lugger in 1898, Blatchley in 1903, 

 Mead in 1904, Isely and Rehn and Hebard in 1905, and Brimley in 

 1908. 



In 1893, Bruner recorded the species as N. volaticus with a query. 



In 1894, Beutenmiiller described Nemohius affinis, which species 

 was two years later correctly placed in the synonymy under carolinus 

 by Scudder, but which name was used by Smith in 1900 and 1910. 



In 1896 and 1900, Scudder recorded specimens of A^. cuhensis and 

 N. palustris as the present species, specimens of which latter he also 

 recorded as N. cuhensis. His discussion of Provancher's "Nemohius 

 {Anaxipha) septentrionalis" in the former paper is incorrect. 



Lugger's 1898 record of A^. socius should probably apply to the 

 present species. 



In 1902, E. M. Walker misidentified a large series of the present 

 species from Ontario as N. palustris, and in 1904 believing these records 

 wrong corrected the name to N. confusus. 



The same year he described Nemohius angusticollis, placing the 

 specimens from which the above incorrect records were given in the 

 typical series. This name is an absolute synonym of A^. carolinus, 

 as was first stated by E. M. Walker himself in 1909. 



Rehn and Hebard, in 1905 and 1911, mistook macropterous 

 specimens of this insect for N. cuhensis and so recorded them. 



Morse, in 1906, repeated Scudder's incorrect records of 1896 of the 

 present species under A'^. palustris. 



The same year Kirby, realizing Blatchley's name A^. exiguus 

 invalid, proposed as a new name Nemohius janus; this name was 

 used by Rehn in 1910 and twice by AUard in 1911. 



Specimens Examined. — 418: 185 males, 225 females, and 8 nymphs. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



Chateau Richer, Ontario, Sept., 1904, (E. M. Walker) 1 cT, 1 9 [U. S. N. M. 

 and University of Toronto], b. , ^ ttt o >- at i 



Owen Sound, Ont., Aug. 31, 1901, (E. M. Walker) 1 cf , 1 9 [U. S. ^. M. and 

 University of Toronto], b. ,^ ,,„.,, x ,, o r^ r \ m a x> 



de Grassi Point, Ont., Sept. 14, 1901, (E. M. Walker) 1 cf, 2 9 [A. N. S. P. 

 .and University of Toronto], b. r^ „ .• , u 



Franconia, New Hampshire, (Slosson) 1 9 [Scudder Collection], b. 



WoUaston, Massachusetts, Aug. 16, Sept. 1, 1895, 96, (F. H. Sprague) 1 cf , 

 1 9 [Scudder Collection], b. _, , , ^ „ ,■ i u 



South Natick, Mass., Oct. 22, 1905, (Morse) 1 9 [Blatchley Collection], b. 



Oxford, Mass., Oct., 1909, (Allard) 2 c?, 2 9 [U. S. N^^M.]. b 



Ramapo, New York, Oct. 1, 1905, (Davis) 2 cf , 1 9 [Davis Collection], b. 



Suffern, N. Y., Oct. 6, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis CoUectionj. b. 



Bronxville, N. Y., Aug. 23, 1908, (Davis) 1 c?, 1 9 [Davis Collection . b. 



New York, N. Y., Sept. 29, 1907, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Collection], b. 



Staten Island, N. Y., Aug. 22, 26, Sept. 2, 5, 19, Oct. 3, 8, 1896-1906, (Davis) 

 •9 cf, 8 9, 1 n. [Davis Collection]. Pair m. 



Springs, Long Island, N. Y., Sept. 21, 1910, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Collection], b. 



Lakehurst, New Jersev, Oct. 6, 1906, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Collection], -b. 



Cranford, N. J., Aug. 27, (Davis) 2 cT, 1 9 [Davis Collection], b 



Jamison City, Pennsylvania, Sept. 5, 1909, (Davis) 2 cT, 2 9 [Davis Col- 

 lection], b. .. ^. r, T^l 



Harrisburg, Pa., Aug. 21, 1 9 [A. N. S. P.]. m. 



Cornwells, Pa., Oct., 1906, (R. and H.) 1 cT, 1 9. b^ ,„ ^ oq ^ on o 



Chestnut Hill, Pa., July 8, Aug. 7, Sept. 9, 19, 1904, 08, 11, (H.) 28 cf , 29 9 . 



■^ WiSahickon Creek, White Marsh Valley, Pa., Sept. 20, 1903, (H.) 2 cf . 4 9 • b. 

 Tinicum Island, Pa., Aug. 13, Sept. 9, 19, 1904, 08, 11, (R. and H.) 13 cf , 



Diamond Valley, Huntingdon County, Pa., Sept. 10, 1905, (R.) 1 9 . b 



Chestnut Ridge, Westmoreland County, Pa., (Brugger) 1 9 [A. N. S. 1 . |. b. 



Cabin John Run, Maryland, Sept. 19, 1911, (Davis) 14 d^, 11 9,1 n. [Davis 

 Collection], b. „ , . ^ r^r n t.t n* i u 



Rummer's Island, Md., Oct., 1909, (Barber) 2 9 [U- S N. M.] b. 



Washington, D. C, Aug. 16, 29, Oct. 5, 16, Nov. 9, 1883-1909, (CaudeU et al.) 

 .3 c?, 7 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 3 9 m. 



Alexandria County, Virginia, Sept., 1911, (Davis) 1 cf, 5 9 [Davis Collection], b. 



Dead Run, Va., Aug. 29, 1912, (Caudell) 2 <^ [U S N. M ] b. 



Rosslyn, Va., Sept. 26, Oct. 20, Nov. 3, 1901, (Caudel )3 d^, 1 9 U. S. N. M ]. b. 



Fairfax Countv, Va., Sept. 21, 1911, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Collection] b. 



Falls Church, Va., Sept. 4, 1906, (Caudell) 7 cf . 9 9 , 4 n. [L. &. N M ]. b. 



North Carolina, 1 d^, 1 9- Type, Allotype [Scudder and Blatchley Col- 



*' Rareigh,^N. C, Aug. 4, 21, Sept. 5, 9, 15, 28, Oct. 10 12, 28,. 30, Nov. 2, 13, 19, 

 .30, 1904-1908, (Brimley, Sherman, Bentley) 11 d^, 15 9 [Brimley, N. C. Dept. 

 Agr. and Hebard Collection]. 2 cf m., 1 at light. 



Fayetteville, N. C, Sept. 9, 1911, (R. and H.) 1^, 1 9 • b 



Lake Waccamaw, N. C, Sept. 8, 1911, (R. and H.) 3 o^, 8 9 . b 



Blowing Rock, N. C, Aug. 29, 1902, (Sherman)! oMN.C. Dept. Agr.]. b. 



Newton, N. C, Aug., 1906, (Sherman) 1 oMN. C. Dept. Agr.]. m 



Black Mountains, N. C, Sept., (Beutenmiiller) 1 d^, 2 9 [Am. Mus. Nat. 

 Hist.], b. 



Balsam, N. C, Oct. 7, 1905, (H.) 1 ^. 2 9 . b 



Highlands N. C, Sept., 1908, (Sherman) 4 d^, 1 9 [N. C. Dept. Agr.]. b. 



Florence, South Carohna, Sept. 6, 1911, (R. and H.) 10 cT 11 9 , 2 n. b. 



Swansea S. C, June, 1908, (C. C. Craft) 1 9 [U. S. N. M ] m. 



North end Sullivan Island, N. C, Sept. 5, 1911, (R^and H.) 19. b. 



Georgia 1 9 From tvpe series A'', volaticus Sc. [Blatchley Collection], m. 



Thompson's Mills, Ga., Oct., 1909, (Allard) 1 cf [U. S. N M ]. b. 



Brunswick, Ga., May 2, 1911, 1 9 [Collection State of Ga.]. m 



Bainbridge, Ga., June-Sept., 1909-11, (Bradley) 4 d^, 1 9 [Cornell Univ.]. m. 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie^ 



Thomasville, Ga., Jan. 1, Mar. 18, 21, 29, May 19, June 13, 15, 23, Nov. 23, 

 Deo. 1, 11, 13, 14, 17, 18, 22, 1903-08, (H. and for H.) 21 d^, 30 9 . 1 c?, 6 9 m. 



Daytona, Florida, Sept. 16, 1911, (Englehardt) 1 cf , 1 9 [Bklyn. Jnst. A. and 

 S.]. m. 



Indian River, Fla., (Pridday) 1 cf [Hebard Collection ex Brunerj. m. 



Lakeland, Fla., Nov. 10, 1911, (Davis) 1 9 [Davis Collection!, m. 



Sarasota, Fla., Jan. 31, Feb. 14, 23, 25. Mar. 3, 1911, (Blatchley) 2 d", 5:9 

 [Blatchley Collection], b., 1 9 1. teg. only. 



Charlotte Harbor, Fla., (Slosson) 1 o^ [Scudder Collection], m. 



Lake Worth, Fla., (Slosson) 1 9 [Scudder Collection], m. 



Biscayne Bay, Fla., (Slosson) 4 cf , 1 9 [Scudder Collection]. S d , I 9 ni. 



Homestead, Fla., Mar. 17-19, 1910, (H.) 1 cf . b.; Julv 10-12, 1912, (R.andH.) 

 1 d^, 1 9. b. 



Olivier, Louisiana, (E. S. G. Titus) 1 d" [U. S. N. M.]. b. 



Doucette, Texas, July 24, 1912, (H.) 1 o^. b. 



Beaumont, Tex., Julv 23, 1912, (H.) 3 d^, 6 9 . 1 9 m. 



College Station, Tex., Dec. 29, 1905, (Hart) 1 9 [111. State Lab. Nat. Hist.], b.. 



Houston, Tex., Jan. 5, 1906, (Hart) 1 9 [111. State Lab. Nat. Hist.], b. 



Columbus, Ohio, Oct. 2, 1903, (Mead) 1 cf, 1 9 [Ohio State Univ.]. b. 



Cedar Point, Ohio, Aug. 21, 1912, 3 cf , 3 9 [Ohio State Univ.]. Pair m. 



Sugar Grove, Ohio, Sept. 12, 1912, 1 cf , 1 9 [Ohio State Univ.]. b. 



Cincinnati, Ohio, Oct. 19, 1912, 1 9 [Ohio State Univ.] b. 



Kosciusko County, Indiana, Aug. 17, 1903, (Blatchley) 2 9 [A. N. S. P.]. b. 



Marion County, Ind., Oct. 30, 1904, (Blatchley) I d', 2 9 [U. S. N. M.]. b. 



Vigo County, Ind., Oct. 5, 1894, (Blatchley) 1 d^, 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. b. 



Knox County, Ind., Nov. 5, 1903, (Blatchlev) 1 d" [U. S. N. M.]. b. 



Crawford County, Ind., Sept. 8, 1903, (Blatchley) 1 cf [A. N. S. P.]. b. 



Ogle County, Illinois, (Allen) 1 9 [Scudder Collection]. L. teg. only. 



Chicago, 111., (Palmer) 1 9 [Scudder Collection]. L. teg. only. 



Dallas County, Iowa, (J. A. Allen) 1 9 [Scudder Collection]. " m. 



West Point, Nebaska, Oct. 16, 1 cf [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. b. 



Lincoln, Nebr., Sept., 1894, (Bruner) 2 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. 

 1 m. at light. 



South Bend, Nebr., Oct., 1889, 1 d", 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. b. 



Clearwater, Kansas, Aug., 1904, (Isely) 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. b. 



Atchison, Kan., Aug. 1, 1904, (Iselv) 1 cf ]U. S. N. M.]. b. 



Fairview, Kan., Aug., 1904, (Isely) 2 d", 2 9 [U. S. N. M.]. b., 191. teg. only. 



Nemobius carolinus brevioaudus Bruner. 



1904. Nemohius brevicaudus Bruner, Bull. 94, Agr. Exp. Sta. Colo. Agr. 



Coll., p. 57. (Original description.) [Fort Collins, Colo.] 

 1912. Nemohius brevicaudus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1912, p. 122. (Single type fixation.) 



This insect is known from the types only, which specimens show 

 it to be very near N. carolinus. From that species this geographic 

 race differs in being very pale in coloration, with the spots on the 

 dorsal surface of the female abdomen greatly enlarged. The types 

 are also as robust as the largest specimens of carolinus before us, 

 while the ovipositor is very short. 



Type: 9; Fort Collins, Colorado. October 4, 1901. [Hebard 

 Collection ex Bruner.] 



Description of Type.- — Size medium, form robust. Similar to 

 N . carolinus except in the paler coloration, exaggerated color pattern 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 483 



and in the ovipositor which is short (probably^^ similar to that of 

 JV. caroUnus neomexicanus in normal specimens). 



We here describe the unique allotypic male which bears the same 

 •data as the type. 



"Fig. 28. — Xemobius carolinus brevicaudus. Malformed ovipositor of type. 

 (Greatly magnified.) 



Description of Allotype. — Similar to female in size and proportions. 

 Differing from A^. carolinus in coloration and pattern as given in 



above description. 



Measurements {in mUlimeters) . 



Length of body 



Length of pronotum 

 Caudal width of pronotum 



Length of tegmina 



Length of caudal femur 

 Greatest width of caudal femur 

 Length of ovipositor 



As has been noted, the ovipositor in this specimen is malformed, 

 the apex being misshapen as the figure shows. 



Color Notes. — General color wood brown washed with russet. 

 Head with the faint occipital markings described under carolinus 

 more pronounced and extending as far as the vertex, the lighter 

 color wood brown, the darker wood brown washed with russet. Eyes 

 clove brown. Maxillary palpi wood brown, the terminal portion of 

 the last segment Vandyke brown. Pronotum with dorsal surface 

 and lateral lobes wood brown, somewhat maculate with pale russet. 

 Tegmina transparent wood brown. Dorsal surface of abdomen in 

 male (concealed) and concealed portion of same in female vandyke 

 brown; exposed portion of same in female with four rows of pale 

 spots as in carolinus, but with these spots greatly enlarged, the narrow 

 medio-longitudinal portion between the two median rows of spots 



^' In this .specimen, the only known female, the ovipositor is clearly malformed 

 as indicated in Fig. 28. 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June^ 



Vandyke brown, the other narrow interstices between the spots, 

 russet. Ovipositor burnt umber. Limbs and ventral surface of 

 insect of general coloration. 



Distribution. — Though known only from Fort Collins, Colo., it is 

 probable that this insect will be found rather widely distributed in 

 favorable localities over the great plains. 



Specimens Examined. — 2: 1 male and 1 female. 



Fort Collins, Colo., October 4, 1901, 1 d^; 1 9 . Allotype, Type. 

 [Hebard Collection ex Brunerl. 



Nemobius carolinus neomexicanus Scudder. 



1896. Nemobius neomexicanus Scudder, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, IV, pp. 100, 



104. (Original description.) (In part.) [Las Cruces, New Mex. Los 



Angeles (County), Cal.; Comondu, Lower Cal.] 

 1896. Nemobius toltecus Scudder (not of Saussure, 1859), Jour. N. Y. Ent. 



Soc, lY, pp. 101, 106. [Orizaba and Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mex.; Tepic,, 



(Tepic), Mex.] 

 1896. Nemobius neomexicanus Scudder, Psyche, VII, p. 432. (New key.) 

 1896. Nemobius toltecus Scudder (not of Saussure, 1859), Psyche, VII, p. 



433. (New key.) 



1896. Nemobius neomexicanus Cockerell, Ent. News, VII, p. 297. [Las 

 Cruces, Mesilla and Colorado, New Mexico.] 



1897. Nemobius neomexicanus Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., II, p. 223. 

 [Durango and (or) Sinaloa, Mex.; Teapa, Tabasco, Mex.] 



1897. Nemobius denticulatus Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., II, pi. II,, 

 fig. 25. (Figure name only.) 



1902. Nemobius neomexicanus Scudder and Cockerell, Proc. Davenp. Acad. 

 Sci., IX, p. .59. [Las Cruces and Mesilla, New Mex. Common. At- 

 tracted to light.] 



1904. Nemobius neomexicanus Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904,. 

 p. 575. [Florence, Ariz.] 



1904. Nemobius neomexicanus Caudell, Mus. Bklyn. Inst. Arts and Sciences,, 

 I, No. 4, p. 115. [Esperanza Ranch, near Brownsville, and Brownsville,. 

 Tex.] 



1907. Nemobius neomexicanus Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907,. 

 p. 65. [Douglas, Ariz.] 



1907. Nemobius neomexicanus Rehn, Ent. News, XVIII, p. 212. [Browns- 

 ville, Tex.] 



1907. Nemobius neomexicanus Rehn in Snow, Trans. Kansas Acad. Sci., 

 XX, pt. II, p. 39. [San Bernardino Ranch, Ariz.] 



1908. Nemobius neomexicanus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1908, p. 399. [Tucson and Yuma, Ariz.] 



1908. Nemobius neomexicanus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1909, p. 172. [Alamogordo, New Mex.] 



The present geographic race differs from typical Nemobhis carolinus 

 in being usually of paler coloration over the arid or semiarid portions 

 of its distribution, while in these specimens the great majority are 

 somewhat more slender. 



The series from the state of Vera Cruz, Mex,, differs from carolinus 

 in being more russet in general coloration, the dorsal abdominal 

 spots of the females being, moreover, very large. 




1913.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



485 



In all of these series the ovipositor is almost invariably considerably 

 shorter than in carolinus and consequently shows even less curv- 

 ature. 



Based on a series of five specimens of both sexes from four 

 localities. "^^ 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Las Cruces, New Mexico^ 

 (Cockerell) [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. 



Description of Type.— Size, form, and structure much as in N. 

 carolinus. Tegmina nearly as long as caudal femur. Wings more 



Fig. 29. — Nernobms carolinus neomexi- 

 canus. Ovipositor of Type. (Greatly 

 magnified.) 



Fig. 30. — A^emobius carolinus neomexi- 

 canus. Ovipositor of specimen from 

 Vera Cruz, Mexico. (Greatly mag- 

 nified.) 



than twice as long as tegmina. Ovipositor a little more than half 

 the length of the caudal femur, very feebly arcuate, almost straight,, 

 distal third narrowly sublanceolate and armed as in carolinus. 



The allotype here selected bears the same data as the type and is 

 in the Scudder Collection. 



Description of Allotype. — Size smaller, but very similar to female 

 in general proportions. Tegmina of same character and abdomen 

 likewise peculiarly developed as in carolinus. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Las Cruces, N. M. Shovel Mtn., Tex.. 



Type Allotype 



9 cf 9 c^ 



Length of body 7.7 7. 8.3 6.9 



Length of pronotum 1.6 1.5 1.4 1.4 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.3 2. 2.3 2.3 



Length of tegmina 4.8 4.8 4.2 4.5 



Length of wings 11. 10.8 9.7 9.8 



Length of caudal femur 5.1 4.8 4.5 4.7 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 



Length of ovipositor 2.7 2.4 



^ One specimen, a female from Sierra el Taste, Lower California, does not 

 belong to this geographic race, but to N. cubensis mormonius. 




486 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Brownsville, Tex. 



(Extremes.) 



9 9 ' d^d" ~^ 



Length of body 7.-8. 6.3-8.3 



Length of pronotum 1.4-1.6 1.3-1.7 



Caudal width of pro- 

 notum 2.4-2.1 2.3-2.7 



Length of tegmina 4.2-4.8 4.1-5.2 



Length of wings 10. -10.9 9.9-11.4 



Length of caudal femur 4.8-5. 4.7-5.2 



■Greatest width of caudal 



■ femur 1.7-1.8 1.7-1.9 



Length of ovipositor 2.9- 3. 



Alamogordo, 

 N. Mex. 



9 



7.1 



1.7 



2.1 

 3.4 



2.1 



2.8 



7.6 

 1.7 



2.4 

 5.1 



"5^1 



1.8 



Co., Cal. 



Length of body 8.4 



Length of pronotum. 1.8 



•Caudal width of prono- 

 tum 2.6 



Length of tegmina 4.8 



Length of wings 11.3 



Length of caudal femur . 5 . 8 

 •Greatest width of caudal 



femur 1 .9 



Length of ovipositor 2 . 9 



Extremes in Ovipositor Length. 



Columbus, Tex 2.9-3.3 



Carrizo Springs, Tex 2 . 5-2 . 8 



Yuma, Ariz • 2 . 9-3 . 1 



Comondu, L. Cal 2.6-2.9 



Trinidad 2.8 



Costa Rica. 3 



The considerable variation in the present insect does not seem to be 

 affected by distribution, the extremes of the species before us being 

 found in both series from Brownsville, Tex., and Orizaba, Mex. The 

 greatest ovipositor length is seen to about equal the minimum found 

 in N. carolinus, though rare exceptions are found in that species where 

 the length of the ovipositor is less than even the average of the 

 present race. 



Color Notes. — We here describe the coloration of the type. Head, 

 pronotum and tegmina mummy brown shading to raw umber on 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



the limbs and with intermediate channel of tegmina and exposed 

 portions of wings tawny olive. Under portions of insect pale tawny 

 olive. Maxillary palpi yellowish, the extreme apex of the terminal 

 segment very narrowly marked with very dark brown. The majority 

 of the specimens from the arid and semiarid portions of the range 

 of the insect are somewhat darker than the type, the general color 

 being Vandyke brown, and in some of these individuals the occipital 

 markings described under carolinus are faintly apparent. There 

 are very few brachypterous females from this portion of the distribu- 

 tion of the race, and all of these but one are in a poor state of 

 preservation. The specimen from Brownsville, Tex., in good condi- 

 tion, shows the color pattern of the exposed dorsal surface of the 

 abdomen similar to that of typical carolinus. 



The majority of the specimens from the state of Vera Cruz resemble 

 carolinus closely in coloration and color pattern, but are almost 

 without exception more russet. The few specimens from that region, 

 which differ from these in coloration, are colored much as in typical 

 carolinus neomexicanus, and all have the ovipositor as is typical in 

 that race. 



With scarcely an exception, the limbs of the specimens before us 

 are immaculate. The maxillary palpi have the dark marking of 

 the apex of the ultimate joint invariably exceedingly narrow. 



Distribution. — The present insect is known from the more arid 

 regions of the western United States, southward to the state of Vera 

 Cruz, Mex., and Costa Rica. The most northern localities at which 

 it has been taken are Shovel Mountain, Tex., Jemez Hot Springs"^, 

 New Mex., and Florence, Ariz. From Shovel Mountain, Tex., it is 

 found south to the Gulf coast and is checked in its eastern distribu- 

 tion by this boundary. The most southern locality is Costa Rica, 

 while it appears to be only limited in its western distribution by the 

 Pacific coast. 



Biological Notes. — All we know of the life of the present race has 

 been learned from material taken in the southwestern United 

 States. There the species appears to enjoy a wide but rather local 

 distribution. It was very seldom found by us in any numbers, and 

 occasional macropterous specimens attracted to light were the usual 

 indication of the presence of the species. We have found it but once 

 in the brachypterous form, then .it was not extremely scarce, but 

 very difficult to capture, in low irrigated grass near the station at 



" These specimens are intermediates between this race and typical N. carolinus. 

 32 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Albuquerque, New Mex. Occasional trills from this grass plot indi- 

 cated the presence of the insects in the afternoon, specimens could 

 doubtless have been taken there with ease after nightfall. The 

 series before us suggests that the species is far more plentiful in 

 the region discussed during June than later in the season. The 

 same conditions which govern the distribution of .V. cubensis mor- 

 monius are applicable to the present species as well. 



Synonymy. — In 1896, Scudder incorrectly recorded the series of 

 specimens of the present insect from the state of Vera Cruz, Mex., 

 as N. toltecus, in the same paper in which he described neomexicanus. 

 That year that name was again used by him for the same specimens 

 in his key in Psyche. 



Saussure, in 1897, finding that a species which he was describing 

 for the Biologia was the same as the present insect, corrected the 

 name in the text, but accidentally left his name Nemobius denticulatus 

 as the name for the figure. 



Specimens Examined. — 121: 61 males, 59 females, and 1 nymph. 



Shovel Mountain, Texas, July 9, 10, Sept. 5, Oct. 4, 1901, (Schaupp) 3 d", 3 9 

 [A. N. S. P.]. m. 



Columbus, Tex., Sept. 7, 2 9 [U. S. N. M.]. m. 



Victoria, Tex., (W. E. Hinds) 1 c? [U. S. N. M.]. m. 



Carrizo Springs, Tex., Oct., 1884, (Wadgymar) 2 9 [Hebard Collection ex 

 Bruner]. m.. 



San Diego, Tex., (Schwarz) 1 & [U. S. N. M.]. m. 



Brownsville, Tex., June, 1904, (Barber) 3 cf , 2 9 ; June, (Snow) 1 cf, 2 9 ; 

 6 cf , 4 9 [Bklyn. Inst. A. and S., A. N. S. P., U. S. N. M.]. m.: Apr. 11, (Dohr- 

 ner) 1 9 ; June 23, 1908, Nov. 21, Dec. 20, 1910 (Hart) 17 cf , 12 9 [HI. State 

 Lab. Nat. Hist.]. All but 1 9 , m. 



Los Borregos, Brownsville, Tex., June 5, 6, 1904, (Barber) 4 cf , 2 9 [U. S. 

 N. M.]. m. 



Esperanza Ranch, Brownsville, Tex., (Schaeffer) 3 cf [Bklyn. Inst. A. and S.]. m. 



Jemez Hot Springs, New Mexico, Sept. 7, 1911, (Woodgate) 2 9 [Hebard 

 Collection], b. 



Colorado, N. M., (CockereU) 2 cf , 2 9 [Scudder Collection]. 



Alamogordo, N. M., July 16, 1907, (H.) 1 cf, 1 9, 1 n. b. 



Las Cruces, N. M., (CockereU) 1 cf, 1 9. Allotype, Type [Scudder and 

 Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. m. 



Mesilla, N. M., (Cockerel!) 1 cf , 1 9 [Scudder and U. S. N.M. Collection], m. 



Florence, Arizona, July, 1903, (Biederman) 1 9 [A. N. S. P.]. m. 



Tucson, Ariz., July 23, 1907, (R. and H.) 1 9 . m. 



Yuma, Ariz., July 28, 1907, Oct. 1, 1910, (R. and H.) 2 cf , 4 9 . m. 



Los Angeles County, California, July, (Coquillett) 2 9 [Paratype in Hebard 

 Collection ex Bruner; 1 9 , U. S. N. M.]. m. 



Comondu, Lower California, Mar., 1889, (C. D. Haines) 3 9 [Paratype in 

 Scudder Collection; 2 9 , Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. m. 



San Jose del Cabo, L. Cal., 1 cf , 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. m. 



Venis Mecas,^^ Mexico, Jan. 6, 1878, (Palmer) 1 d" [Scudder Collection], b. 



Monterey, Nuevo Leon, Mex., July 3, 1908, 1 9 [HI. State Lab. Nat. Hist.], m. 



Durango or Sinaloa, Mex., (Forrer) 1 cf , 1 9 [Br. Mus.]. b. 



«5 We are at present unable to find the exact location of this place. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



Tepic, Mex., 1 cT [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. b. 



Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mex., 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. b. 



Medellin, V. C, Mex., 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. m. 



Presidio, V. C, Mex., (Forrer) 1 9 [Br. Mus.]. b. 



Orizaba, V. C, Mex., Jan., 1892, 7 cf , 4 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. b. 



Motzorongo, V. C, Max., Feb., 1892, 2 d^, 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. b. 



San Rafael, V. C, Mex., (Townsend) 1 9 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. m. 



Teapa, Tabasco, Mex., March, (H. H. Smith) 2 ^ [Br. Mus.]. b. 



Costa Rica, (Carriker) 1 9 [Hebard Collection], m. 



Nemobius confusus Blatchley. 



1903. Nemobius confu&us Blatchley, Orth. of Indiana, pp. 421, 428, 429. 



(In part.) (Original description of 9 •) [Tippecanoe Lake and Posey 



County, Ind. In low damp woods.] 

 1908. Nemobius confusus Brimley, Ent. News, XIX, p. 21. [Raleigh, N, C. 



Damp places near water.] 

 1911. Nemobius confusus Sherman and Brimley, Ent. News, XXII, p. 391. 



[Raleigh, N. C] 



Tills species, wliicli also belongs to the subgenus Eunemobius, is 

 one of the most distinctive of the North American species of the genus 

 Ne7nohiiis. In the original description the supposed male of the 

 present species was in fact N. maculatus, and in consequence that 

 composite description is highly misleading. There is a superficial 

 resemblance of this species to N. palustris, but examination shows 

 that it belongs to a different subgenus, since in cojifusus the disto- 

 ventral spurs of the caudal tibiae are equal in length and the ovi- 

 positor is of the shorter type, armed at the apex above with heavy 

 teeth, below with widely spaced serrations. 



The bone-white maxillary palpi in both sexes distinguish the present 

 species from all other North American members of the genus. 

 The nearest relationship is found in A^. caroUnus, from which species 

 confusus differs widely in the different color pattern, much darker 

 general coloration and ovipositor which is different in shape and 

 armament. 



Based on a series of specimens from two localities in Indiana. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Tippecanoe Lake, Kosciusko 

 County, Indiana, August 26, 1902. (Blatchley) [Blatchley Col- 

 lection]. 



Description of Type. — Size small, form graceful; head small, not 

 as full and with interantennal projection not as prominent as in 

 carolinus, wider than the cephalic width of the pronotum. Maxillary 

 palpi sunilar to those of carolinus. Eyes broad ovate, not at all 

 prominent. Pronotum with proportions much as in carolinus, 

 narrowing slightly cephalad and with a medio-longitudinal impressed 

 line more noticeable in the cephalic portion. Tegmina half as long 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



as caudal femora, resembling those of N. palustris excepting that in 

 the present species the humeral vein is more conspicuous and the 

 tegmina are divided by this vein into less rounded dorsal (here 

 including the intermediate channel) and more nearly perpendicular 

 lateral fields. Wings absent. Ovipositor slightly more than half 

 as long as the caudal femora, feebly arcuate, distal third of same 

 heavy, lanceolate; with both dorsal and ventral margins of apex 

 armed, the former with rather widely spaced, very heavy, and some- 

 what recurved teeth, the latter with' widely spaced serrulations. 

 The limbs are somewhat more delicate than in carolinus ana, the spines 

 of the caudal femora somewhat more slender than in that species. 



Fig. .31. — Xew.obius confusus. Ovipositor of t^-pe. (Greatly magnified.) 



The allotypic male, here selected, taken at Dead Run, Virginia, 

 August 29, 1912, by Caudell and in the United States National 

 Museum, furnishes the additional data given below. 



Description of Allotype. — Smaller but very similar to female in 

 general appearance. Tegmina transparent and very delicate; of 

 same character as in carolinus but not as much wider than abdomen 

 as in that species, when in repose the lateral margins of the dorsal 

 field are more nearly straight, subparallel. Wings absent. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Tippecanoe 



Lake, Ind. Dead Run, Va. 



Type Allotype Average of series. 



9 9 d' cr^d^ 9 



Length of body 7. 6.8 6.3 6.2(6.-6.6) 7.3 



Length of pronotum 1.9 1.9 1.4 1.5(1.4-1.7) 1.7 



Caudal width of prono- 

 tum 2.2 2.3 2. 1.9(1.8-2.1) 2.1 



Length of tegmina 3. 2.9 4. 4.1(3.8-4.8) 3.1 



Length of caudal femur 5.3 5 . 4 . 7 4 . 7 (4 . 6-4 . 9) 5.3 

 Greatest width of caudal 



femur 2. 1.9 1.8 1.7(1.6-1.9) 1.8 



Length of ovipo.sitor 2.9 2.9 2.6 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



Cabin John Run, Md. 



Average of series. 

 d'd' 9 9 



Length of body 6.4(5.7-7. ) 6.7(6.6-6.9) 



Length of pronotum 1.6 (1.4-1.7) 1.7 (1.4-1.8) 



Caudal width of pronotum 2 . (1.9-2.1) 2.1(1.9-2.3) 



Length of tegmma 4.2 (4. -4.4) 2.9 (2.8-3. ) 



Length of caudal femur 4 . 4 (4 . 1-4 . 7) 4 . 9 (4 . 8-5 . 3) 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1 .7 (1 .6-1 .8) 1 .9 (1 .8-2 . ) 



Length of ovipositor 2.7 (2.5-2.8) 



The extremes in size found in the material before us are given in 

 the above measurements. Although the series are not large, it is 

 possible to see that there is but little variation in the species. The 

 eastern specimens average somewhat .smaller than those from Indiana. 

 In the original description the measurements for the male sex are, as 

 has been stated, taken from a specimen of .V. maculatus, while those 

 of the female are, unfortunately, in almost every case exaggerated. 



Color Notes. — All of the specimens before us are of very much the 

 same coloration. Head, pronotum, and tegmina shining piceous, the 

 latter transparent in the male, nearly transparent in the female. 

 Maxillary palpi with proximal segments piceous, last two segments 

 white and very striking. Dorsal surface of abdomen dark bistre; 

 in the specimens of somewhat lighter coloration, bistre with the 

 margins of the segments darker. Limbs and ventral surface of body 

 immaculate raw umber; in dark specimens mummy brown. Both 

 males and females of the present species have a very shiny appearance. 



Distribution. — The present species has been taken on the Atlantic 

 coast from a few miles northwest of Washington, D. C, to Raleigh, 

 N. C. The only other known point of distribution is the type locality 

 in northern Indiana. 



Biological Notes. — Among the secretive species of Nemobius, this 

 species is at present one of the least known. We learn from Blatchley 

 that it was first found, "quite common in some low, damp woods 

 bordering Tippecanoe Lake .... living among the fallen leaves 

 and beneath small chunks and chips." No macropterous specimens 

 are known, but it is probable that a long-winged form of the present 

 species exists. 



Synony^ny. — It is strange that although Blatchley found this 

 insect plentiful when the type series was taken, he apparently secured 

 no males, but having taken males of N. maculatus in the same locality, 

 unfortunately supposed these to be males of the new species. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



The result is that the original description is a composite of the two 

 species. We have at present before us two males and two females 

 of the type series which bear this out fully, as the males are both 

 maculatus. 



E. M. Walker has noted that Professor Morse pronounced the 

 males of Blatchley's confusus a different species from the females, 

 but that writer incorrectly surmised that the females were probably 

 synonymous with N. carolinus Scudder. 



Specimens Exmnined. — 32: 8 males, 22 femaleS; and 2 nymphs. 



Cabin John Run, Maryland, Sept. 19, 1911, (Davis) 3 cf , 3 9 [Davis Col- 

 lection]. 



Plummer's Island, Md., Sept. 4, 11, 1902, 03, (Barber) 2 9 [U. S. N. M.] 

 Dead Run, Virginia. Aug. 29, 1912, (Caudell) 4 cf, 2 9 , 2 9 n., including cf 

 Allotype [U. S. N. M.]'. 



Falls Church, Va., Sept. 2, 4, 1906, (Caudell, Banks) 1 cf , 6 9 [U. S. N. M.] 

 Alexandria County, Va., Sept., 1911, (Davis) 4 9 [Davis Collection]. 

 Raleigh, North CaroHna, Sept. 25, 1907, (Brimley) 2 9 [Brimlev Collection, 

 U. S. N. M.]. i^ > > J I . 



Tippecanoe Lake, Indiana, Aug. 26, 1902 (Blatchley) 2 9 . Type and Para- 

 type [Blatchley Collection]. 



Kosciusko County, Ind., Oct. 29, 1902, (Blatchley) 1 9. Paratvpe 



[U. S. N. M.j. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 493 



TWO COLLECTIONS OF PLEISTOCENE FOSSILS FKOM THE ISTHMUS OF 

 PANAMA. 



BY AMOS P. BROWN AND HENRY A, PILSBRY. 



The two collections of fossils treated of in this paper were briefly 

 alluded to in our second paper on the Gatun Formation,^ issued in 

 January of this year. They were collected by Professor W. B. Scott, 



1911, with the assistance of Mr. D. F. Macdonald, geologist of the 

 Isthmian Canal Commission. As noted in our former paper, they 

 came from two localities near the north end of the canal. 



Collection 1. — From the oyster-shell bearing layers in the Black Swamp 

 near Mount Hope {Monkey Hill). — The top of these beds is some four 

 feet above the present sea level and they are encountered in digging 

 for sewers in the town of Colon. They are also known from Toro 

 Point, across the bay from Colon. The material consists largely of 

 coral mud, with corals and coralline fragments and many molluscan 

 remains mixed with more or less silt containing vegetable matter. 

 It was evidently shipped to us just as it came from the excavations, 

 and contained the small species as they were imbedded in the mud of 

 the sea bottom. No volcanic ash was detected in this material. 

 While the species represented are almost all recent, some of them 

 may be extinct, and at any rate have not yet been found in the living 

 state. 



In a paper published in 1912, Dr. DalP has described four of these 

 found in our material. Besides these four described by Dall, we 

 now add three additional new species ; and a number of others were 

 among the specimens in the collection, but not in sufficiently good 

 form for description. We have found some of these described new 

 species in collections of recent shells in the A. N. S. P. collection, 

 and it may be that none of these new species will be found to be 

 really extinct when the molluscan fauna of that part of the Caribbean 

 is fully known. The fauna of these beds (which Professor Scott has 

 named the Mount Hope Formation) numbers in this collection 69 

 named species of Gastropods, with 3 additional species named only 

 as to genus; 45 named species of Pelecypods, with 3 additional species 

 named as to genus; 2 Scaphopods; 6 species of corals and one 

 barnacle. 



1 Fauna of the Gatun Formation, Isthmus of Panama, II. Froc. A. X. S. P., 



1912, pp. .500-519. 



- New Species of Fossil Shells from Panama and Costa Rica, by W. H. Dall, 

 SmUhxonian Misc. Coll., vol. 59, No. 2, 1912. 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Collection 2. From the oyster-shell areas in the black, unconsolidated 

 mud, uncomjormable on the Gatun Formation at the lower (north) end 

 of the Gatun Locks. — This deposit of mud extends from a few feet 

 below sea level to about 10 feet above it at this point. The black 

 character of the deposit and the finding of definite vegetable remains 

 in it, coupled with the observation that the oysters grew attached to 

 mangroves or similar plants, shows that this was a deposit accumu- 

 lated at the head of a bay or in an estuary. From the clean condition 

 in which this material reached us, it seems likely that this collection 

 was the result of the screening of the discharge from a suction dredge. 

 This would also account for the absence of all small specimens from 

 the collection. The species present indicate shallow, probably 

 brackish, water conditions. The most notable species is the oyster 

 (evidently growing attached to plants) and the great number of 

 Congeria shells. The oyster shells are often seen to be covered with 

 barnacles. Besides the one species of barnacle, there were three 

 species of Gastropods and five species of Pelecypods. One of the 

 Gastropods, Neritina virginea Lam., has the color pattern of the shell 

 beautifully preserved. This deposit is probably more recent than 

 that at Mount Hope, but is probably, like it. Pleistocene. 



We are indebted to Mr. J. B. Henderson, of Washington, for 

 working over and determining a large part of the species listed below. 



List of Species from the Oyster-shell Layers from the 

 Black Swamp near Mount Hope. — Collection L 



Balanus eburneus Gould. 



Tornatina canalicidata (Say). R.^ 



Cylichnella bidentata (Orb.). 



Atys Sander soni Dall. 



Bullaria occidentalis (A. Ad.). C. 



Haminea canalis Dall. 



Haminea antillarum (Orb.). R. 



Terebra spei n. sp. 



Conus proteus Hwass. R. 



Drillia leucocyma Dall. 



Drillia ostrearum Stearns. 



Drillia harfordiana (Reeve), var. colonensis n. v. R. 



Clathurella jewettii Stearns. R. 



Cythara balteata (Reeve). 



Cythara biconica (C. B. Ad.). C. 



Marinula colonia Dall. R. 



OUvella myrmecoon Dall. C. 



' The abundance or rarity of the species is indicated by the letters R. (rare) 

 nd C. (common). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



Marginella cincta Kien. C. 



Margi7iella pallida (L.). R. 



Marginella minuta Pfr. 



Voluta alfaroi Dall. R. 



Fasciolaria sp. R. Specimen too young to determine. 



Latirus cingulifera (Lam.). R. 



Phos intricatus Dall. R. 



Engina turbinella (Kien.). R. 



Nassa vibex Say. 



Columbella mercatoria (L.). 



Anachis avara (Say). R. 



Anachis sa7nanensis Dall. C. 



Anachis pulchfUa (Kien.). R. 



Aspella scalawides (Blainv.). R. 



Strombus bitiiberculatus Lam. 



Strombus pugilis L. 



Trivia pediculus (L.). R. 



Murex rufus Lam. R. 



Murex pomum Gmel. 



Murex riodatus Reeve. C. 



Urosalpinx sp. R. 



Eulinia bifasciata (Orb.). R. 



Cymatium vcspaceum (Lam.). R. 



Cymatium tuberosum (Lam.). R. 



Cerithiopsis sp. R. 



Bittium varium Pfr. C. 



Cerithium literatum (Born.). R. 



€erithium algicola C. B. Ad. C. 



Cerithium medium Dall. R. 



Cerithium variabile C. B. Ad. 



Cerithidea varicosa Sby. R. 



Modulus modulus (L.). C. 



Modulus catenulatus Phil. R. 



Littorina angulifera Lam. R. 



Vermetus nigricans Phil.(?). R. 



Alabina cerithioides Dall. 



Alaba tervaricosa Ad. R. 



Rissoina Icevigata C. B. Ad. var. browniana Orb. 



Rissoina striatocostata Orb. R. 



Rissoina cancellata Phil. R. 



Rissoina elegantissima Orb. R. 



Crepidula convexa Say. C. 



Crepidula plana Say. R. 



Calyptrcea candeana Orb. C. 



Natica pusilla Say. R. 



Sigaretus perspectivus Say. R. 



Phasianella pulchella C. B. Ad. C. 



Turbo crenidatus Gmel. R. 



Astralium brevispina (Lam.). R. 



Astralium tuberosum (Phil.) (?). 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



Tegula fasciata (Born.). 



Fissuridea alternata (Say). 



Suhemarginula emarginata (Blainv.). 



Suhemarg inula rollandii (Fischer). 



Acmcea punctulata (Gmel.). 



Neritina viridis Lam. C. 



Tonicia schrammi Shuttl. R. 



Dentalium callithrix Dall. C. 



Cadulus vaughani Dall. C. 



Leda vulgaris n. sp. C. 



Leda acuta Conr. R. 



Yoldia perprotrada Dall. C. 



Area unihonata Lam. R. 



Area imhrieata Brug. R. 



Area antiquata L. C. 



Area deshayesi Hanley. C. 



Area eampeachiensis Dillw. R. 



Area adamsi Smith. 



Area oeeidentalis Phil. R. 



Area retieulata Gmel. R. 



Seapharea pittieri Dall. C. 



Byssoarca fusea Brug. C. 



Melina ephippium (L.). C. 



Ostrea virginica Gmel. C. 



Peeten ziczac (L.). C. 



Pecten exasperatus Sowb. C. 



Peeten gihbus (L.). 



Peeten gihbus disloeatus Say. R. 



Mytilus exustus Lam. R. 



Chama sp. R. 



Chama sp. C. 



Crassinella guadalupensis (Orb.). R. 



Diplodonta mediamericana n. sp. R. 



Diplodonta soror C. B. Ad. C. 



Codakia orbicidata (Mont.). R. 



Codakia antillarum Reeve. R. 



Lucina chrysostoma Phil. C. 



Phaeoides lintea (Conr.). R. 



Phaeoides near crenulatus (Conr.). R. 



Phaeoides antillarum Reeve. R. 



Phaeoides leucoeyma Dall. R. 



Phaeoides peetinatus (Gmel.). C. 



Phaeoides sp. 



Cuspidaria (Cardiomya) costellata Desh. R. 



Cardium serratum L. C. 



Cardium medium L. 



Cardium murieatum L. C. 



Gafrarium (Gouldia) eerina (C. B. Ad.). R. 



Pitar suharresta Dall. 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



497 



Chione cancellata (L.)- C. 



Tellina {EurytelUna) alter nata Say. C. 



Tellina (Cyclotellina) fausta Don. 



Tellina (Angulus) versicolor Coz. 



Tellina (Angulus) promera Dall. 



Abra cequalis (Say). R. 



Corhula equivalvis Phil. C. 



Corbula swif liana C. B. Ad. C. 



Manicina areolata (L.), 



Porites porites (Pallas). 



Agaricia agaricites (L.). 



Cladocora orhuscula (Le Sueur). 



Siderastrea sidera (Ell. and Sal.). 



Favia jragum (Pallas). 



List of Species obtained from the black mud unconformable 



ON the Gatun Formation at the lOwer end of the 



Gatun Locks.— Collection 2. 



Balanus ehurneus Gould. 



Melongena melongena (L.). 



Cerithidea varicosa Sby. 



Neritina virginea Lam. C. 



Ostrea virginiai Gmel. C. 



Congeria iMijtilopsis) cochleata Kick. C. 



Phacoides pedinatus (Gmel.). C. 



Anomalocardia cuneimeris Con. R. 



Cyrena (Polymesoda) acuta Prime. R. 



Descriptions of new species. 



Terebra spei n. sp. Fig. 1. 



The shell is small, slender, the 

 diameter contained five times 

 in the length. Apex lost, 11^ 

 whorls remaining are slightly 

 convex. Sculpture consists of 

 rather sharp axial ribs, narrower 

 than their concave intervals, 

 curving backward in the middle, 

 on the last whorl 22 in number, 

 and continued as far as the 

 anterior contraction; a spiral 

 groove, equally deep over ribs 

 and intervals, defines a posterior fasciole which is somewhat less than 

 one-third the width of each whorl; below this there are seven spiral 

 cords wider than their interstices, prominent in the concave inter- 



Fig. 1. — Terebra spei n. sp. 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



costal spaces, but almost effaced where they pass over the crests of 

 the axial ribs. The aperture is trapezoidal; columella not plicate, 

 but its lower edge is slightly prominent. 



Length 15, diam. 3.25, length of aperture 3.3 mm. 

 Mount Hope bed. 



While related to T. protexta, this species differs by the convexity 

 of the whorls. 

 Drillia harfordiana var. colonensis n. var. 



The shell resembles Pleurotoma harfordiana Rve. in form, but is 

 very much smaller. The anal fasciole is rather wide, concave, with a 

 single prominent spiral cord near the suture. Below the fasciole 

 there are 'rounded, slightly protractive axial ribs, strongest at the 

 shoulder, rapidly diminishing downwards, and ten in number on the 

 penultimate whorl. They are crossed by rather widely spaced spiral 

 cords, of which three are visible on the penultimate, about a dozen 

 on the last whorl. The cOrds are equally developed on the ribs and 

 in their intervals, and the spaces between them are occupied by very 

 fine spiral striae, especially well developed on the fasciole. The 

 €oloration, though faded, is visible on some specimens. There is a 

 white band at the shoulder and several white lines below, on a tawny 

 ground. Length 12, diam. 5.5 mm.; about 9 whorls. 

 Mount Hope bed. 



An allied recent form from Nicaragua is described below. 

 Drillia harfordiana var. flucki n. v. 



Similar to var. colonensis except in the following details. The 

 axial ribs are much more numerous, seventeen on the penultimate 

 whorl; on the last whorl they diminish very rapidly below the 

 periphery, and the spiral cords are noticeably enlarged and prominent 

 on the summits of the ribs; the 6th and 7th below the shoulder are 

 white. From the shoulder to the suture the surface is buff-white, 

 and the growth strise somewhat lamellar; elsewhere the shell is dark 

 mineral -red (of Ridgway's Color Standards). 



Length 19.3, diam. 8, length of aperture 8.2 mm.; 10 whorls, the 

 tip wanting. 



King's Keys, Nicaragua, recent. Rev. W. H. Fluck. 

 The figure of D. harfordiana Rve. measures, length 27.5, diam. 

 12.5 mm. The habitat of the species was and still is unknown, and 

 it has not been described with sufficient detail; but these Central 

 American forms resemble it in general features and may well be 

 local forms of the same species. 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



499 



Diplodonta mediamericana n. sp. Fig. 2. 



The shell is of the usual orbicular shape, the length and altitude 

 about equal, diameter nearly two-thirds of the length; rather thin; 

 surface densely and very delicately striate, smoother towards the 

 beaks, which are somewhat prominent. 

 Margins somewhat straightened on both 

 sides of the beaks; the anterior end a little 

 more broadly rounded than the posterior. 

 Teeth rather strong. Length 15.5, alt. 15.1, 

 diam. 9.8 mm. 



Porto Barrios and Livingston, Guatemala,, 

 in mud brought up on an anchor, S. L. 

 Schumo, cotypes No. 76,479 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 2. -~ Diplodonta medi- ^^^^^ ^j^_ jj^pg Professor W. B. Scott. 

 amencuna n. sp. . , , i i tn 



This species closely resembles D. puiic- 



turella Dall, but differs in the sculpture and proportions. D. nuclei- 

 formis (Wagner) is a much smaller and more obese form. 

 Leda vulgaris n. sp. Fig. .3. 



The shell is rather solid, plump, equivalve; beaks median, small, 

 contiguous. Anterior end rounded, its upper margin convex. Pos- 

 terior end rapidly tapering, attenuate, 

 its upper margin concave. Surface 

 glossy, with fine, regular sculpture of 

 concentric grooves as wide as the in- 

 tervening ridges. The posterior dor- 

 sal surface is flattened, striate, bounded 

 by strong ridges, giving the appearance 

 of a large, lanceolate escutcheon. 

 There are 16 anterior and about 26 

 posterior teeth. 



Length 12, alt. 6.3, diam. 5.2 mm. 

 Length 11.5, alt. 6.3, diam, 6 mm. 

 This species, which is extremely 

 abundant in the Mount Hope For- 

 mation, was also obtained in mud from an anchor collected by 

 Mr. S. L. Schumo at Porto Barrios, Livingston, Belize, and INIonkey 

 River, and is therefore a common form of the Central American 

 litoral. L, commutata Phil., which seems closely related, is a wider 

 species, the basal margin being more deeply arcuate. L. mauritiana 

 Sowerby is very similar, but in various details is nearer to L. jamai- 

 censis Orb. 



Fig. 3. — Leda vulgaris n. sp. 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Leda vulgaris var. obliterata n. v. 



A form closely related to L. vulgaris was collected by Mr. Clarence 

 B. Moore in Indian Pass, Appalachicola Bay, Calhoun Co., Fla. It 

 differs by having the valve smooth until it reaches an altitude of 

 about 4 mm., after which it is concentrically grooved as in vulgaris. 

 There are about 16 teeth before, 18 behind the beaks. 



Length 10.7, alt. 6, semidiameter 2.2 mm. 



Seventeen detached valves but no complete shells were taken. 

 Cotypes No. 109,049 A. N. S. P. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



NEW SPECIES OF THE GENUS MOHNIA FROM THE NORTH PACIFIC. 

 BY WILLIAM HEALEY DALL. 



In arranging for study the unequalled collection of Chrysodominse 

 of the National Museum, I found an unexpected number of species 

 of the genus Mohnia Friele, of which one or two species, including 

 the type, are found in the North Atlantic. Diagnoses of some of 

 the undescribed forms are appended. 

 Mohnia robusta "• sp. 



Shell solid, stout, of about eight whorls, the apical ones being 

 always eroded in adult shells; the upper whorls with 15-16 axial, 

 rounded, little elevated, nearly straight riblets, which become feebler 

 and finally vanish on the last whorl; suture appressed, slightly 

 constricted; other axial sculpture of rather irregular, retractively 

 arcuate incremental lines; spiral sculpture of obscurely channelled 

 grooves which become wider with age and on the penultimate whorl 

 are about 14 in number; on the last whorl they are coarser on the 

 base, but nowhere sharp or clean cut; the whole surface is covered 

 with a dark olive periostracum, under which the shell is white; 

 aperture ovate, the body erased white, the pillar gyrate but not 

 pervious, the outer lip thin, sharp ; the canal rather wide and strongly 

 recurved. The nucleus is not preserved on any of the specimens. 

 The operculum is dark horn color and forms about one whorl . Length 

 of type specimen (about five whorls) 36.5; of last whorl 25; maximum 

 diameter 15 mm. 



Bering Sea in 987 fathoms, off the Pribiloff Islands. 



Mohnia corbis n. sp. 



Shell with the apex eroded and about five rounded whorls remain- 

 ing; white, covered with an olivaceous yellow periostracum; suture 

 appressed; axial sculpture of numerous, rather irregular, prominent 

 incremental lines; spiral sculpture of, between the sutures, about 

 seven cord-like ridges, which on the last whorl become flatter and 

 strap-like; the interspaces are irregular, but usually wider; between 

 the cord at the shoulder and the suture behind there is a flattish 

 space with four or five obsolete finer spirals; contrary to custom, the 

 base of the last whorl and canal have no spiral sculpture; aperture 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug.^ 



short-oval, the. outer lip thin, short, the body erased white, the 

 pillar gyrate and minutely pervious; canal very short, wide, and 

 slightly recurved; operculum with a small subspiral nucleus. Length 

 of shell 31; of last whorl 20 ; maximum diameter 14 mm. 

 Bering Sea, off the Pribiloff Islands in 1,771 fathoms. 



Mohnia vernalis "■ sp. 



Shell small, thin, white under a light green periostracum, of about 

 seven whorls; the apex apparently blunt, but always more or less 

 eroded; the nepionic whorls with a few spiral grooves, the following 

 whorl or two with about 16 rather prominent short ribs, most promi- 

 nent at the periphery, with narrower interspaces crossed by fine 

 spiral striae with wider interspaces; the ribs rapidly become obsolete 

 and on the last three whorls are absent, the surface being then only 

 marked by very arcuate incremental lines, the striae becoming obso- 

 lete, except on the base near the canal where there are a few coarse 

 spirals; aperture short-ovate, the outer lip thin, sharp, the body 

 erased, the canal short, wide, slightly recurved, the pillar gyrate, 

 minutely pervious; the operculum with a subspiral nucleus. Length 

 of five whorls (the apex being eroded) 21 ; of last whorl 14; maximum 

 diameter 10 mm. 



Off Tillamook Bay, Oregon, in 786 fathoms. 



Mohnia siphonoides n.'sp. 



Shell solid, rotund, white, with an olivaceous polished periostracum, 

 and with about six whorls; apex eroded, apparently blunt; sculpture 

 of faint incremental lines and sparse zigzag oljsolete ridges recalling 

 those of Tritonofusus hypolispus Dall, but less distinct; whorls 

 rather flattish, aperture ovate; outer lip slightly reflected, body with 

 a thin layer of callus, pillar gyrate, not pervious, canal short, recurved. 

 Operculum with a small subspiral nucleus. Length (eroded) 34; 

 length of last whorl 26; maximum diameter 15 mm. 



Bering Sea, off Pribiloff Islands, in 987 fathoms. 



If it were not for the operculum, this shell would certainly be 

 referred to Tritonofusus. 



Mohnia exquisita n. sp. 



Shell delicate, white under a greenish periostracum, with about 

 seven whorls; suture not appressed; axial sculpture of incremental 

 lines which cut the spiral keels and minutely serrate their edges 

 occasionally; spiral sculpture, fundamentally of two prominently 

 elevated keels; one at the shoulder recurved, the other vertical to 

 its base; with ten or twelve not prominent spiral cords on the base. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



In one specimen the space between the keels has no spiral sculpture, 

 in another there are one or two minor keels and numerous faint 

 spirals; this specimen also has a minor keel marginating the base. 

 Aperture rather small, the outer lip sharp, thin, modified by the 

 keels; inner lip erased, white; pillar gyrate, minutely pervious; canal 

 short, wide, hardly recurved. Operculum with subspiral nucleus 

 and much transparent enamel on the margin of the proximal surface. 

 Length 31; length of last whorl 20; maximum diameter 14 mm. 



Bering Sea, off Koniugi Islands, in 1,766 fathoms. 

 Mohnia buccinoides n. sp. 



Shell large, thin, with more than six whorls; white, covered with 

 an unpolished pale gray periostracum; suture not appressed; whorls 

 well rounded; spiral sculpture of a single moderately prominent 

 cord at the periphery, and numerous fine spiral striae, with somewhat 

 irregular wider interspaces; axial sculpture only of incremental 

 lines which are not conspicuous; aperture rounded-quadrate, the 

 outer lip thin, sharp, the body erased, the pillar gyrate, minutely 

 pervious; canal short, wide, recurved; operculum with a subspiral 

 nucleus. Length of (eroded) shell 38; of last whorl 27; maximum 

 diameter 19 mm. 



Off Hondo, Japan, in 905 fathoms. 



This would certainly be taken for an immature Biiccinini? if it 

 were not for the operculum. 

 Mohnia japonica n. si>. 



Shell small, polished, white under a dark green periostracum, the 

 apex eroded, but having apparentlj^ about six whorls; the first intact 

 whorl shows faint indications of obsolete ribbing, the later whorls 

 are smooth except for faint incremental lines and obscure, almost 

 microscopic spiral stride; on the base there are the usual spiral threads 

 near the canal. Aperture elongate-ovate, outer lip thin, sharp; 

 body erased, canal short, wide, recurved, axis gyrate, not pervious. 

 Length of shell (eroded) 19; of last whorl 13; maximum diameter 

 8.5 mm. 



Off Sado Island, Japan Sea, in 225 fathoms. 

 Mohnia kurilana n. sj. 



Shell small, very delicate, with a blunt nucleus and six and a half 

 well-rounded whorls; whitish under a thin olivaceous velvety 

 periostracum; nucleus blunt, axially minutely sharply ribbed; the 

 next whorl with many minute riblets is cancellated by. revolving 

 threads; the subsequent whorls have six or seven nearly uniform 

 33 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



revolving grooves separated by wider flattish interspaces, which, on 

 the last whorl, cover the whole surface, including the base; suture 

 distinct, not appressed; aperture short, the outer lip very thin, 

 sharp, the body without callus, the axis gyrate, minutely pervious; 

 the canal short, hardly recurved; operculum with a subspiral nucleus. 

 Length of shell 14; of last whorl 9; maximum (hameter 7.5 mm. 



Off the Kuril Islands, in 229 fathoms. 



This shell has the aspect of Thalassoplanes, hnt the operculum of 

 Mohnia. 

 Mohnia hondoensis n. sj.. 



Shell small, of about six whorls, whitish, covered by an olivaceous 

 periostracum; first two whorls denuded, the next with a peripheral 

 carina and about ten ribs which are prominent only at the periphery, 

 and as well as the carina become obsolete on the last whorl; there 

 are also faint microscopic spiral striae here and there; aperture 

 narrow, outer lip sharp, body erased; pillar gyrate, not pervious; 

 canal short, wide, slightly recurved. Length of shell 12; of last 

 whorl 9.5; maximum diameter 6 mm. 



Off Hondo, Japan, in 76 fathoms. 



The above species were dredged at various times liy the II. S. 

 Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. d91.: 



FOWLER: AMPHIBIANS AND JREPTILES FROM ECUADOR, M 

 VENEZUELA, AND YUCATAN.i : ■ 



Bufo cseruleocellatus sp. nov. 

 i.Bufo chanchanensis sp. nov. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191,3. 



PLATE VI. 



FOWLER: AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILES FROM ECUADOR, 

 VENEZUELA, AND YUCATAN. 



Hyla chimboe sp. nov. 

 Hvia riobambsB .sd. mov. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191.3. 



PLATE VII. 



FOWLER: AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILES FROM ECUADOR, 



VENEZUELA, AND YUCATAN. 



Hyla quitCB .sp. nov. 



Hyla quinquefasciata sp. uuv. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191.5 



FOWLER: AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILES FROM ECUADOR, 

 VENEZUELA, AND YUCATAN. 

 Hylodes pagms sp. nov. 

 Hvloxalus huiarae so. nov. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



PLATE IX. 



FOWLER: AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILES r^FROM ECUADOR, 



VENEZUELA, AND YUCATAN. 



Rana brevipalmata rhoadsi subsp. nov. 



Rana brevioalmata Cone. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1 



FOWLER: AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILES FROM ECUADOR, 



VENEZUELA, AND YUCATAN. 



Anolis nitens bondi subsp. nov. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. iOl.3. 



BANKS: AMERICAN SPIDERS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



BANKS: AMERICAN SPIDERS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19i: 



PLATE .XIII, 



BANKS: AMERICAN SPIDERS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191.3. 



PLATE XIV. 



CALVERT: FOSSIL ODONATE PHENACOLESTES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191.'3. 



PLATE XV 



UlibSacsr-* 



/^. •^-v*. 





t*.M^'« 



i~ 



10 



^ 



&»/ ~^ v-~ 



^^ 



15 



-,0^^' 



16 



17 



i.*^ 



22 



19 



^ 



■'23 



20 



24' 



PILSBRY: LOWER CALIFORNIAN HELICES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



^^ 







29 





37 



jt"^^ 



41 



49 





26 



30 



34 



38 



^SS^. 



• '^ 



46 



50 



27 



^v^ 



\: 



35 



39 



43 





47 



5 1 



^dr±:^ 





^ 



36 



40 



44 



-# 



48 



% 



PILSBRY: LOWER CALIFORNIAN HELICES. 





1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



REPTILES COLLECTED BY THE YALE PERUVIAN EXPEDITION OF 1912. 

 BY THOMAS BARBOUR. 



Dr. Hiram Bingham has sent me two small lots of snakes, nine 

 specimens in all, from Machu Pichu, 9,000-10,000 feet altitude, 

 Department of Cuzco, Southern Peru. They were collected by 

 Dr. George P. Eaton and Mr. EUwood C. Erdis. Four species are 

 represented, of which two are new. The types of the new species 

 have been studied by Dr. A. G. Ruthven, and the description of one 

 of them appears under his name. The other he returned, since he 

 had no material of the genus Drepanodon for direct comparison, and 

 since the Yale specimen had its teeth badly broken he was loath to 

 describe it. I have, however, a specimen of D. anomalus Jan., 

 which I obtained in Bolivia, and am enabled to make quite sure, 

 I think, that the second specimen represents an undescribed species 

 of this genus. The fact that Dr. Ruthven was leaving for South 

 America on a collecting trip, and the desirability of reporting on this 

 material at once, has led me to describe one species myself with 

 Dr. Ruthven's consent, and to include his description of the other 

 with my own. Dr. Bingham has kindly added these specimens to 

 the Reptile Collection of the Museum of Comparative Zoology. 



Atractus badius (Boie). 



Boie, Isis, 1S27, p. 540. 



Boulenger, Cat. Sn. B. M., 2, 1894, p. 308. 



Four specimens from Machu Pichu. In squamation these all fall 

 within the limits indicated by Boulenger (I.e.). In coloration, 

 however, they do not agree quite so well. It is also noteworthy that 

 these four examples from the same locality are exactly alike in 

 pattern and shade of color. They are pale reddish-brown above, 

 with more or less irregular darker blotches above which have a 

 tendency to fall into alternating series upon the dorsal region. The 

 ventral surface is covered with blotches of brownish-black, many 

 of which are often confluent. This coloration combines some of the 

 characters described by Boulenger for what he calls var. B. and C. 

 Nevertheless, it is quite different and may be confined to specimens 

 from this part of Peru. If this turns out to be the case, it will be 

 advisable to name this race. 

 34 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Drepanodon erdisii sp. nov. 



Type, Mus. Comp. ZooL, No. 8,829, from Machu Pichu, Peru, 1912; 

 collected by the Yale Peruvian Expedition of that year. 



Head rather distinct from neck; eye moderate, with vertically 

 elliptical pupil. Body quite strongly compressed; scales smooth, 

 no apical pits, in nineteen rows; ventrals 198, rounded; anal un- 

 divided; subcaudals in 64 pairs. Rostral broader than high, just 

 visible from above ; nostril in the suture between two nasals ; frontal 

 longer than broad, almost triangular, the apex being directed back- 

 ward; loreal not conspicuously small, almost a rectangle; one 

 prse- and two postoculars; temporals 2+3; eight upper labials, of 

 which the fourth and fifth enter the eye ; four lower labials in contact 

 with the anterior chin shields, which are al)Out equal in length to the 

 posterior pair. 



In color the head is black, with an incomplete collar interrupted 

 on the nape (red in life undoubtedly and white in spirits). The 

 body is crossed by twenty-seven broad black bands, which are about 

 twelve scales wide dorsally and much more narrow ventrally, usually 

 covering but four ventrals. The result is an equal number of inter- 

 spaces, wide below and narrow dorsally, which are white in spirits 

 (probably also red in life). There are numerous black spots in the 

 white (red?) areas dorsally and a few in the lateral interspaces. 

 Ten black rings upon tail, including the tip, which is black, the 

 interspaces being very narrow. 



Named for Mr. Ellwood C. Erdis, who, with Dr. Eaton, collected 

 these specimens. 

 Drepanodon eatoni Ruthven sp. nov. 



Type. Mus. Comp. ZooL, No. 8,831, from Machu Pichu, Peru, 

 1912; collected by the Yale Peruvian Expedition of that year. 



"There are 12-13 small maxillary teeth subequal or slightly in- 

 creasing in length, followed after a short interspace by two enlarged 

 and compressed teeth. Mandibular teeth subequal. Head distinct 

 from neck; eye moderate with vertically elliptic pupil. Body a 

 little compressed; scales smooth and without pits, in fifteen rows 

 throughout; ventrals 165, rounded. Tail moderate, subcaudals in 

 32 pairs; anal plate entire. Rostral normal, just visible from above; 

 two nasals; frontal slightly broader than long, with an obtuse angle 

 posteriorly; loreal very small and low; preoculars 1 and 2; post- 

 oculars 2; temporals 1-2 and 2-2; upper labials 7, third and fourth 

 beneath the eye; 7 lower labials, four in contact with the anterior 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



chill shields, which are of about the .same length as the posterior 

 pair. 



"Anteriorly the back is crossed by black bars about 4 scales broad, 

 which are imperfectly continued on the sides of the belly and mostly 

 interrupted on the median line. Toward the middle of the body 

 the lateral parts of the bars tend to become displaced to form a 

 pattern of alternating blotches, which are sometimes connected on 

 the lower part of the sides. Near the tail the black markings are 

 again united into cross bars and on the tail again broken up into 

 alternating spots. The interspaces are about 3 scales wide, and 

 scales are mostly pale (reddish in life?) , relieved by small pale brown 

 lines or spots and generally a poorly defined dark brown spot or line. 

 There is an irregular light collar, from which a poorly defined con- 

 tinuation extends on the temple. Sides of head with pale mark; 

 chin much spotted with black. 



"It will be noted that the characters of this snake are not exactly 

 the same as those ascribed to the genus Drepanodon. The principal 

 differences from the other species are the slightly greater number 

 of maxillary teeth and the shape of the body, but the writer believes 

 that the forms have enough in common to make it advisable to refer 

 the species tentatively to this genus." 



The collection also contains a single paratj^je of this species. 



Named for Dr. George F. Eaton, who, with Mr. Erdis, collected 

 these specimens. 



Lachesis lanceolatus (Lac^pede). 



Lac^pede, Serp., 2, 1789, pp. 80, 121, pi. 5. fig. 1. 

 Boulenger, Cat. Sn. B. M., 3, 1896, p. 535. 



Two t\T)ical examples of this dangerous and wide-ranging species. 



Explanation of the Plate XVII. 



Fig. 1. — Dorsal view of head of type of Drepanodon eatonii Ruthven. Four 



times natural size. 

 Fig. 2. — Lateral view of head of same specimen. Similar enlargement. 

 Fig. 3. — Dorsal view of head of type of Drepanodon erdisii Barbour. Four 



times natural size. 

 Fig. 4. — Lateral view of head of same specimen. Similar enlargement. 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SYNONYMY OF SERPENTS IN THE FAMILY 

 ELAPIDa:. 



BY JOSEPH C. THOMPSON, SURGEON, U. S. N. 



In Mr. Ruthven's epoch-making monograph, Variations and Ge- 

 netic Relationships of the Garter-snakes, one reads: "An examination 

 of the systematic work that has been done upon the snakes shows, 

 as might be expected, that it is largely analytical in its nature, being 

 for the most part descriptive of the existing diversities";^ and a little 

 further along, he adds: "After analysis, therefore, as has been said, 

 comes the need of a larger synthesis."- 



The first step in the synthetic work is the reexamination of speci- 

 mens that have been made the types of new species. This note calls 

 attention to five that should be stricken from the list of valid species. 



Described as New. Correct Status. 



Naja tripudians samarensis Peters Naja tripudians Merrem. 

 Naja morgani Mocquard. Walterinnesia mgyptica Latastc. 



Callophis boettgeri Fritze. Calliophis japonicus Guenther. 



Calliophis swinhoei Denburgh. Calliophis macclellandii (Rein- 



hardt) . 

 Flaps heterochilus Mocquard. Elaps spixii (Wagler). 



Naja tripudians Merrem. 



Type. — Naja tripudians Laur., nova var. Samarensis, Peters.^ 

 Berlin Museum. Loquilocun, Samar, Philippine Islands. 

 The subspecies of Peters, which was later promoted to the rank of 

 a species, is based upon a cobra that is normal in every respect, with 

 the exception that the supralabials are reduced from seven to six. 

 This is brought about by the fusion of the normal third and fourth 

 shields. As the result of this two more characters become altered: 

 there is but one labial, the fused shield, entering the eye, and the 

 rostral shield becomes a trifle wider. Four specimens from Samar 

 have been examined at the United States National Museum and at 

 the Senckenberg Museum. In these specimens the rostral and the 

 supralabial shields were normal, the scale count averaged twenty-one 



1 1908, Btdletin 61, U. S. National Museum, p. 1. 



^Loc. ciL, p. 2. 



3 1861, Mon. Berl. Akad., p. 690. 




1913.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



509 



rows on the neck and nineteen on the body, the gastrosteges one 

 hundred sixty-nine, the urosteges fifty, and the total two hundred 

 nineteen. 



In the Catalogue of the Snakes in the British Museum there is a full 

 page of synonymy for Naja tripudians, followed by the remark: 

 "This species, as here understood, varies very considerably, and the 

 forms enumerated hereafter might be regarded as distinct species but 

 for the absence of any sharp demarcation-lines between them." 

 Instead of this serving as an object lesson of the futility of the en- 

 deavor to divide a complex and variable species such as the cobra 

 into endless subspecies, labor is still being expended. 



The present vogue is to arrange the cobras in an arithmetical series, 

 calculated from the number of ventral and subcaudal shields or from 

 the sum of both. Where a gap in the series is discovered (which gap 

 is regularly due to lack of sufficient material) , there to boldly draw a 

 line between this and that subspecies. On one occasion no demarca- 

 tion-lines whatever were needed to reestablish a subspecies. We 

 learn * that the variety leucodira comes from Sumatra and sputatrix 

 from Java. The distinguishing characters of the two are presented 

 in tabular form: 



In other words, this table shows: 



Sumatran specimens to be characterized by having at times two 

 scale rows less on the neck, two less on the body, ten more gas- 

 trosteges, and two more urosteges than some Javan specimens. 



Javan specimens to be distinguishable bj^ occasionally having two 

 more scale rows on the body, eleven gastrosteges less, and two uro- 

 steges less than some Sumatran specimens. 



As a matter of fact, when two groups of animals require to be defined 

 in terms of this nature, it really means that they belong to the same 

 species, and that the only tangible difference between them is to be 

 found on the locality label. 

 Walterinnesia aegyptica Lataste. 



Type. — Naja morgani Mocquard.^ 



Mus. d'Hist. Nat., No. 04-562. Arabistan, Persia. 



n912, Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool, Vol. XLIV, No. 1, pp. 135, 136. 

 5 190.5, Bull. Mm. Paris, XI, p. 78. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Squamation. — Scales in 23 rows on the neck and 22 rows on the 

 anterior part of the body; gastrosteges 184; anal divided; urosteges 

 44 pairs, the first to the ninth entire. Rostral deeper than broad, 

 portion visible from above measuring three-fourths its distance from 

 the frontal; frontal longer than wide (7 mm. by 5 mm.) ; one preocular, 

 two postoculars, and one subocular; two anterior and three posterior 

 temporals; seven supralabials, the third and fourth entering the eye,. 

 third the deepest, fifth touches the inferior postocular on the right 

 but not on the left side ; anterior geneials longer than the posterior. 



Anatomy. — Head 34 mm. long; snout 10.6 mm., projecting 4 mm. 

 beyond the tip of the lower jaw; diameter of the eye 3.5 mm., its 

 distance from the mouth 4.8 mm. Maxillary bone extending for- 

 wards beyond the palatine, and bearing in addition to the fangs two 

 small grooved teeth. 



CoTYPEs. — Naja morgani Mocquard. 



Mus. d'Hist. Nat., No. 04-563. Arabistan, Persia. 



Squamation. — Scales in 24 rows on the neck; gastrosteges 182^, the 

 182d shield is divided; anal divided; urosteges 46 pairs, the second 

 partly divided, the third entire. 



Mus. d'Hist. Nat., No. 04-564. Arabistan, Persia. Total length 

 562, tail 70 mm. 



Squamation. — Scales in 25 rows on the neck and 23 on the anterior 

 part of the body; gastrosteges 196|; urosteges 40 pairs, the first to the 

 third entire. Rostral broader than deep, portion visible from above 

 three-fourths as long as its distance from the frontal; frontal longer 

 than broad (4.7 mm. by 3 mm.) ; one preocular, two postoculars, and 

 one subocular; two anterior and three posterior temporals. 



Anatomy. — Head 23.5 mm. long; snout 7.5 mm.; diameter of the 

 eye 2.6 mm., its distance from the mouth 3 mm.; pupil oval. 



Mus. d'Hist. Nat., No. 04-565. Arabistan, Persia. Total length 

 650, tail 92 mm. 



Squamation. — Scales in 25 rows on the neck and 23 on the anterior 

 part of the body; gastrosteges 186|; anal divided; urosteges 45 pairs, 

 the second to the ninth entire. Internasals 3.2 mm. long; prefrontals 

 3.3 mm. long; frontal 5.6 mm. long and 4.1 mm. broad, its distance 

 from the rostral 4.2 mm. 



Anatomy. — Head 23 mm. long and 16 mm. broad; snout 8.5 mm. 

 long; diameter of the eye 3 mm., its distance from the mouth 3.6 mm. 



Mus. d'Hist. Nat., No. 04-566. Arabistan, Persia. 



Squamation. — Scales in 23 rows on the neck and 21 on the ante- 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



rior part of the body; gastrosteges 193 ; anal divided ; urosteges 43 pairs, 

 the second to the sixth entire. Rostral 3.3 mm. long, 2.3 mm. broad, 

 portion visible from above equals 1.5 mm., its distance from the fron- 

 tal 2.5 mm.; internasals 2 mm. long; prefrontals 2 mm. long; parietals 

 5.2 mm. long; two preoculars, two postoculars, and one subocular; 

 two anterior temporals, two posterior on the right and three on the 

 left side. 



Anatomy. — Head 15 mm. long; snout 5 mm. long; diameter of the 

 eye 1.8 mm., its distance from the mouth 1.8 mm. 

 Calliophis japonicus Guenther. 



Type. — Callophis boettgeri Fritze.*^ 



Mus. Senckenbergianum No. 9395. Tokuchimura, Okinawa, Loo 

 Choo Islands. Male; total length 384, tail 37 mm. 



Squamation. — Temporals one anterior, one median, and two pos- 

 terior on the right, and one anterior, two median, and two posterior 

 on the left side. 



Coloration. — Five longitudinal stripes, broader than the intervals; 

 the lateral pair terminate at the base of the tail. Body with nine, 

 tail with one cross-band. 



The records of the color pattern show that the longitudinal mark- 

 ings vary in number and width from a single narrow vertebral line 

 to five stripes that are broader than the intervals. Furthermore, 

 between the extremes there exist the following unbroken series of 

 intermediate designs: 



A median stripe. 



A median stripe with trace of the intermediate pair. 



A median stripe and the intermediate pair. 



A median stripe, the intermediate pair, and a trace of the lateral 

 pair. 



A median stripe, the intermediate, and the lateral stripes, narroAver 

 than the intervals. 



A median stripe, the intermediate, and the lateral stripes, broader 

 than the intervals. 



Specimens possessing these various color patterns do not have 

 associated with them the slightest diversity in structure. The ser- 

 pents with five stripes that are broader than the intervals have been 

 elevated to specific rank as C alio phis boettgeri Fritze. The name has 

 been correctly assigned to synonymy^ and should be allowed to 

 remain there. 



6 1894, Zool. Jahrb., VII, p. 861. 



7 1896, Boulenger, Cat. Sn. Brit. Mus., Ill, p. .39.5. 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Major Wall mentions two specimens as having tiie last ventral 

 shield divided. This condition seems to be prevalent to a marked 

 degree in Asiatic Elapidse. 



The local name aka-mata, signifying ''red-death", is a simple 

 reference to the color and the dangerous nature of the beast. The 

 mata element of the phrase is the Malayo-Polynesian root form mean- 

 ing "death", and is used in this connection from Madagascar in the 

 west to Hawaii in the east. 



Calliophis macclellandii (Rcinhardt). 



Type. — Calliophis swinhoei Denburgh.^ 



California Acad. Sci., No. 14,978. Suishako, Central Formosa. 

 Female; total length 220, tail 20 mm. 



This synonym is based upon a specimen that was purchased from 

 a dealer in Japan. The description or the type does not mention any 

 character by which it may be distinguished from a normal Calliophis 

 macclellandii; the diagnosis, which is an epitome of the description, 

 reads, "Similar to Calliophis macclellandii, but with more numerous 

 gastrosteges and urosteges; the sum of the gastrosteges and urosteges 

 always more than 256." 



The distribution of Calliophis macclellandii is from northern India 

 to Formosa. It belongs to a group in which a particularly wide 

 range in the number of vertebrae frequently occurs in the same species. 

 If the records be tabulated, one may see at a glance the following 

 data: 



Gastrosteges: 



Range in 17 specimens .' 182-240 



Range in 12 from mainland 182-231 



Range in 5 from Formosa 219-240 



Overlapping of mainland and island specimens: 



In terms of gastrosteges 12 



In percentage of range 20.6% 



Urosteges : 



Range in 17 specimens 25-41 



Range in 12 from mainland 25-36 



Range in 5 from Formosa 32-41 



Overlapping of mainland and island specimens: 



In terms of gastrosteges : 5 



In percentage of range 30% 



S1912, Proc. Cal. Ac. Sci., (4), Vol. Ill, p. 255. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



Sum of the gastrosteges and urosteges: 



Range in 17 specimens. 210-274 



Range in 12 from mainland 210-250 



Range in 5 from Formosa „ 200-274 



Gap between mainland and island specimens: 



In terms of gastrosteges 4 



In percentage of range ; 6i% 



If this data be plotted on squared paper, due regard being taken of 

 the gastrostege and the urostege count, an instructive diagram will 

 result. The solid dots represent mainland and the circles island 

 specimens; where the sex has been recorded there is added the con- 

 ventional sign. 



Observations along these lines are of interest when carried out as 

 studies in geographical variation, but when thej^ become the basis of 

 new species nothing but confusion will eventually result. 



The point that these tables really make clear is that the island 

 specimens differ from those of the mainland in having an increased 

 number of vertebrae. This is a well-known phenomenon, and it occurs 

 in almost all the species of Colubrinse, Najidse, and Crotalinae that 

 inhabit both the mainland of Asia and the adjacent island arcs. 



To estal^lish C. swinhoei involved the following procedure: From 

 the records of twelve mainland and five island specimens, seventeen 

 in all, certain additions and subtractions were made, and a difference 

 of four vertebrae in a range of sixty-four, equivalent to Gj%, was 

 discovered. This Gj% variation in a single character was added to 

 the locality label, and the sum was a new species. 



Where the same species inhabits the mainland and an adjacent 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



island, and where but a few examples are studied from each locality, 

 it is but the application of the most elementary arithmetic to dem- 

 onstrate that a small gap exists betAveen the two groups. Where these 

 two groups are recognized in taxonomy, and where the series increases 

 and the gap disappears, then but one criterion is left by which the 

 determination of a specimen may be accomplished — namely, the 

 locality label. 



Elaps spixii (Wagler). 



Type. — Elaps heterochilus Mocquard.^ 



Mus. d'Hist. Nat., No. 87-122. Brazil. Total length 553, tail 

 43 mm. 



Squamation. — Scales in 15 continuous rows; gastrosteges 209; anal 

 entire; urosteges 29 pairs, the 3d to the 8th, and the 24th entire. One 

 preocular and two postoculars; six supralabials, the third and fourth 

 entering the eye. 



Coloration. — Thirty-six subequal black rings; distinct arrangement 

 in triads is present only in the first three sets, posteriorly the inter- 

 spaces between the sets are distinguished by being a trifle wider and 

 by having the red scales with a slightly smaller black spot at the tip. 



Anatomy. — Diameter of the eye 1.6 mm., its distance from the 

 mouth 2 mm. 



There are nearly forty species of Elaps, and all have seven supra- 

 labials. There is no genus of anything like this size with so uniform 

 a count. The reduction to six supralabials seen in this specimen is 

 caused by the fusion of the normal first and second; this fused shield 

 shows on its lower margin an indenture and a very short suture ex- 

 tending upward. The reduction in the number of infralabials is due 

 to the fusion of the normal first and second; the right shield has a 

 short incisure from the oral rim. These dents and short sutures 

 indicate the position of the normal line of separation. The temporals 

 are irregular ; the anterior shield on the right side being fused with all 

 the lateral cephalic shields as far back as the last labial; the posterior 

 temporal on the left side is fused with the shield that normally inter- 

 venes between it and the azygos plate l)ehind the parietals. 



E. heterochilus has been based upon a specimen having a number of 

 the normal shields fused and others not completely divided. 



M. Mocquard suggested that these conditions might be abnormal 

 when he wrote, "La disposition observes ici pourrait done n'etre 

 qu'une simple anomalie." 



U. S. F. S. Albatross, July 6, 1913. 



9 1887, Bull. Soc. Philom., (7), XI, p. .39. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



October 7. 

 ^Ir. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported that since the last meeting, 

 papers under the following titles had been accepted for publication 

 in the Proceedings : 



''A revision of the species of the genus Nemobius (Orthoptera: 

 Gryllidse) found in North America north of the Isthmus of Panama," 

 by Morgan Hebard (June 5). 



''Reptiles collected by the Yale Peruvian Expedition of 1912," 

 by Thomas Barbour (June 23). 



"Two collections of Pleistocene fossils from the Isthmus of 

 Panama," by Amos P. Brown and Henry A. Pilsbry (June 26). 



"A study of the species of the genus Dichopetala (Orthoptera: 

 Tettigoniidse) , " by James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard (July 18). 



"Contributions to the synonymy of serpents in the family 

 Elapidse," by Joseph C. Thompson (July 21). 



"New species of the genus Mohnia, " by William Heah' Dall 

 (July 29). 



"Fishes from the Madeira River, Brazil," by Henry W. Fowler 

 (August 15). 



"The land and fresh-water mollusks of the Stanford Expedition 

 to Brazil," by Fred Baker (September 25). 



A paper entitled "Evolution of the color pattern in the micro- 

 lepidopterous genus Lithocolletis, " by Annette Frances Braun (Sep- 

 tember 22), was accepted as a contribution to the Journal. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: 



William S. Grant, June 18, 1912. 

 Charles H. Cramp, June 6, 1913. 

 Philip P. Kelly, June 13. 

 Lucy H. Baird, June 19. 

 Horace F. Jayne, July 8. 

 Orlando Crease, July 30. 

 Anna Blanchard, August 2. 



The deaths of the following Correspondents were also announced: 



Lord Avebury, May 26, 1913. 

 Philip L. Sclater, June 27. 

 Joseph H. Corson, July 24. 

 Igino Cocchi, August 18. 




516 proceedings of the academy of [oct., 



October 21. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Ten persons present. 



Clarence E. McClung, Ph.D., and Edward B. Krumbhaar were 

 elected members. 



The following was ordered to be published: 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



FISHES FROM THE MADEIRA RIVER, BRAZIL. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The fishes described in the present paper were collected by iMr. 

 Edgar A. Smith, in 1912 and 1913. They were secured at various 

 localities along the Madeira River or in its tributaries during jVIr. 

 Smith's last trip to Brazil. As natural history was but an inci- 

 dental feature of the journey, and opportunities for collecting being 

 very hmited, Mr. Smith was fortunate in securing an interesting 

 collection. The specimens are all small. A number of the species 

 appear to be undescribed, or possibly hydrographical forms of their 

 allies. As very few species have previously been recorded from the 

 Madeira River, the present account is offered as a contribution to 

 Brazilian ichthyology. The Academy is indebted to Mr. Smith 

 for the gift of the collection to its museum. The accompanying 

 figures are all drawn to scale, the line given with each one expressing 

 millimeters. 



CHARACID^. 

 CURIMATIX.E. 

 Curimatus cyprinoides (Linnaeus). Fig. 1. 



Two examples, 125 and 135 mm. long, from about 20 miles north 

 of Porto Velho, in the Madeira River, October, 1912. 



Fig. 1. ^Curimatus cpyrinoides (Linnaeus). (Young.) 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Eighteen young examples, of which one is figured, from tributaries 

 of the Madeira River near Porto Velho. January and February, 

 1913. In color they are pale uniform brownish, without spots or 

 other markings. The singular pectoral fin of these specimens first 

 attracted my attention, as it is composed of a rather long basal 

 fleshy lobe surrounded by the rays, which are given out from all 

 sides, except in front. That these specimens are identical with the 

 present species appears to me unquestionable. This is of importance 

 as two recently proposed genera are therefore very likel}^ parallel 

 cases. I refer to Archecheir Eigenmann and Dermatocheir Durbin. 

 Archeicheir is thus doubtless a synonym of the earlier (by page 

 priority) Poecilohrycon Eigenmann, and Dermatocheir is synonymous 

 with Hijphessobrycon Durbin. 



Curimatus tigris sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 2|; depth 2f ; D. ii, 8; A. ii, 8; P. i, 10; V. i, 8; about 

 38 scales in median lateral series from shoulder to caudal base; 

 about 19 scales in transverse series between dorsal and ventral 

 origins; about 15 predorsal scales; head width 2 in its length, 

 measured from mandible tip; head depth at occiput If; first branched 

 dorsal ray 1^; first branched anal ray If; upper caudal lobe lyV; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2*; length of pectoral 2f ; ventral 

 2|; snout 3f in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3|; mouth 

 width 3|; maxillary 4|; interorbital 3. 



Body elongately ovoid, well compressed, predorsal slightly con- 

 stricted, postdorsal with slight median groove, pre ventral rounded 

 convexly, and postventral constricted. Body deepest at dorsal 

 origin. Caudal peduncle well compressed, and measured from last 

 anal ray base, about long as deep. 



Head large, compressed, broader above, more or less flattened 

 sides constricted below, and profiles similar. Snout nearly straight 

 in profile, convex over surface, and length about f its width. Eye 

 large, rounded, high, placed near first f in head. Eyelid free, not 

 adipose-like. Pupil moderate. Mouth with short commissure, 

 broad, opens superiorly and broadly in front. Lips broad, rather 

 fleshy, smooth. Maxillary not very distinct, scarcely free, and 

 extends back to hind nostril. Each jaw with a row of small, flexible, 

 weak, conic teeth. Mandible with broad rami, slightly protrudes 

 beyond snout tip, elevated and swollen in mouth and fitting in 

 corresponding large cavities in upper jaw on each side posteriorly. 

 Tongue not evident. Nostrils together, anterior simple pore and 

 posterior in crescent, both faUing close to eye near last fourth in 




1913.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



519 



snout length. Interorbital broadlj^ convex. Suborbital chain nar- 

 row, and leaves cheek broadly exposed. Preopercle with ridge 

 nearly vertical. Opercle large, smooth. 



Gill-opening forward, nearly opposite hind pupil edge. No rakers. 

 Gill-filaments 1| in eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted, slender, 

 and surface with rather narrow lengthwise groove. Branchiostegals 

 moderately long and slender. 



Scales of more or less uniform size, cycloid, well exposed in longitu- 

 dinal parallel series. No axillary scaly flaps, and no scales on bases 

 of fins. L. 1. onlj' slightly developed as 4 simple pores at shoulder. 



Fig. 2. — Curimatus ligris Fowler. (Type.) 



Dorsal inserted anteriorly, or about midway between snout tip 

 and end of adipose fin, first branched ray longest, and depressed fin 

 reaches about If to caudal base. Adipose fin small, placed just 

 behind anal base. Anal inserted a little nearer ventral origin than 

 caudal base, first branched ray longest, extends well beyond rest 

 of fin or till opposite caudal base, and lower edge of fin nearly straight. 

 Caudal moderate, well forked, with equal pointed lobes. Pectoral 

 with rather long fleshy base, surrounded on all its free edges by rays, 

 of which upper a little longer than others. Ventral inserted about 

 midway between pectoral and anal origins, and fin extends back 

 -I to anal. Vent close in front of anal. 



Color in alcohol largely pale brownish, more or less uniform gen- 

 erally. Back with about 14 lateral vertical dark or dusky streaks, 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



all narrower than their interspaces and last few broken up into spots. 

 Fins all pale. Dorsal Avith large jet-black blotch anteriorly at 

 basal half of fin, and distal portion with three transverse pale dusky 

 streaks, uppermost terminal. Anal with 3 transverse pale dusky 

 streaks. Iris slaty. 



Length 30 mm. 



Type, No. 39,156, A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River, 

 near Porto Velho, Brazil. January or February, 1913. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 



Also Nos. 39,157 to 39,186, A. N. S. P., same data, paratypes. A 

 number of these show: Head 2| to 2f ; depth 2f to 3; D. ii, 8 

 or II, 9; A. ii, 8 or ii, 9; scales 38 to 40 in lateral series to caudal 

 base, and sometimes 1 or 2 more on latter; 18 or 19 scales trans- 

 versely between dorsal and ventral origins; 12 to 16 predorsal scales; 

 snout 3f to 3f in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3i to 3|; 

 mouth width 3i to 3J; interorbital 3i to 3^; length 26 to 30 mm. 



This species is apparently related to Curimatus vittatus Kner,^ 

 though that species is without the black dorsal blotch and has the 

 scales much smaller (56). 



{Tiypt?^ tiger, with reference to the dark stripes on the back.) 



PROCHILODIN.E. 



Prochilodus pterostigma sp. nov. Fig. 3. 



Head 3f; depth 3|; D. iii, 9, i; A. iii, 7, i; P. i, 12; V. i, 7; 

 scales 44 in 1. 1. to caudal base, and 2 more on latter; 7 scales above 

 1. 1.; 6 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 5 scales below 1. 1. to anal 

 origin; 16 predorsal scales; head width IfV in its length; head 

 depth at occiput 1^; snout 3|; eye 3|; mouth width 3; maxillary 4; 

 interorbital 2f; first branched dorsal ray lyV; first branched anal 

 ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; pectoral If; ventral If. 



Body moderately long and compressed, deepest at dorsal origin, 

 back slightly elevated, and edges all more or less convex. Posterior 

 half of predorsal with slight median keel extending to dorsal origin. 

 Upper and lower surfaces of caudal peduncle with slight median 

 keel. On each side of preventral a slight or obsolete keel extending 

 to origin of fin. Caudal peduncle moderately compressed, least 

 depth about 1^ its length. 



Head moderate, compressed, lower profile a little more inclined 

 and convex in front than upper, and nearly level sides not con- 



1 Curimatus (Anodus) mltatus Kner, Denk. Ak. Wiss., Wien, XVII, 18.5.5, p. 

 139, PI. 1, fig. 1. Rio Guapore and Rio Negro. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



stricted above or below, so that these surfaces equally broad and 

 convex. Snout convex over surface and in profile, length about 

 f its width, and as viewed from above broadly convex. Eye large, 

 rounded, high, centre falls about first f in head. Pupil large. Adi- 

 pose eyelid large and covers good portion of eye. Mouth broadly 

 transverse, with shallow horizontal commissure extending about 

 opposite front nostril. Snout tip protrudes well beyond upper jaw 

 edge. Jaw edges rather trenchant, cartilaginous, firm, and without 

 lips. No teeth. Mandible shallow, broad, with slight symphyseal 

 knob fitting in depression in upper jaw. Inner buccal folds narrow. 

 Tongue broad, as transverse cartilaginous truncate keel in front, 



Prochilodus pterostigma Fowler. (Type.) 



otherwise fleshy or thick and its extent ill defined. Maxillary small, 

 extends down obliquely in short fleshy point below until opposite 

 front nostril. Nostrils together, anterior simple pore and posterior 

 exposed in crescent, placed at last third in snout length. Inter- 

 orbital broadly convex. Suborbitals broad, well developed, infra- 

 orbital entirely covering cheek and its surface with a few obsolete 

 striae. Four large mucous tubes on preopercle, and its hind edge 

 very slightly inclined back. Opercle large, with a few obsolete radi- 

 ating striae. Occipital fontanel quite long, extends from just behind 

 posterior nostrils to end of occipital process, and widens gradually, 

 from in front backward, its entire length. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite posterior edge of 

 pupil. Rakers about 10+20? short weak points, uniform in 

 35 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



length, and at least ^ or more in filaments, latter If in eye. Isthmus 

 broadly convex. Branchiostegals large, subequal. 



Scales moderately large, well exposed, edges entire, of mostly 

 uniform size, and disposed in series parallel with 1. 1. Striae on 

 scales concentric or obscure. Scales on caudal base slightly smaller 

 than elsewhere. Ventral with free pointed axillary scaly flap, its 

 length about 3 in fin. Front base of adipose fin scaled. L. 1. com- 

 plete, midway along side of body, very slightly curved. Tubes 

 simple, anteriorly less exposed than behind, where they reach over 

 first half of scale exposure at least. 



Dorsal origin slightly nearer snout tip than caudal base, first 

 branched ray longest, extends back beyond all of others, though fin 

 depressed back reaches a little less than half way to caudal base. 

 Adipose fin inserted slightly nearer caudal base than last dorsal ray 

 base, texture of fin somewhat ray-like above. Anal inserted slightly 

 before adipose fin origin, first branched ray longest, and depressed 

 fin reaches back | to caudal base, its lower or hind edge slightly 

 emarginate. Caudal well forked, with long slender pointed and 

 equal lobes, longer than head. Pectoral low, rather small, upper 

 rays longest, and depressed fin reaches f to ventral origin. Ventral 

 inserted a little nearer pectoral than anal origin, and depressed 

 fin reaches f to anal. Vent placed nearly opposite tips of depressed 

 ventrals or well before anal origin. 



Color in alcohol pale grayish-brown generally, lower surface scarcely 

 paler. A narrow underlaid pale slaty streak begins at shoulder 

 close over, or one scale above, 1. 1., extends concurrently with 1. 1. 

 till after dorsal fin when it falls closer, so that 1. 1. marks rest of its 

 lower boundary, and on caudal base it forms small dusky spot, 

 which rather obscure and about size of pupil. Dusky caudal spot 

 or lateral streak not reflected out on median caudal rays. At median 

 branched dorsal rays basally a dusky blotch about size of pupil. 

 No humeral blotch. Fins, otherwise than mentioned, pale grayish, 

 lower ones slightly paler. Iris deep slaty. 



Length 85 mm. 



Type, No. 39,187, A. N. S. P. Madeira River, about twenty miles 

 north of Porto Velho, Brazil. October, 1912. Edgar A. Smith. 



Only the type known. Characteristic of this species is the dark 

 spot at the base of the dorsal fin medianly, spot at caudal base 

 medianly, and the underlaid lateral streak. In these respects it 

 differs from almost all the species of the genus. 



(Ihepov, fin; <ntY!J.a^ spot; with reference to the spots on the dorsal 

 and caudal fins.) 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



523 



NANNOSTOMIX.E. 

 Nannostomus stigmasemion sp. nov. Fig. 4. 



Head 3|; depth 3^; D. ii, 9; A. ii, 8; P. i, 10?; V. i, 7?; scales 

 20 in median lateral series from shoulder to caudal base; 6 scales 

 transversely between dorsal and ventral origins; 14 predorsal 

 scales; head width about If its length; head depth at occiput If; 

 depressed dorsal fin 1|; depressed anal fin If; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 2f; caudal fin lyV; pectoral 1|; ventral If; snout 4j in 

 head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2|; mouth width about 8; 

 interorbital about 2f . 



Body moderately long, well compressed, fusiform, with greatest 

 depth about ventral origin, and edges all convexly rounded. Caudal 

 peduncle compressed, moderate, and least depth about If in its length. 



Fig. 4. — Nannostomus stigmascnnon Fowler. (Type.) 



Head rather robust, conic, profiles more or less similar, and convex 

 sides not constricted above or below, these surfaces also widely 

 convex. Snout short, nearly triangular as viewed from above, 

 though with rounded tip, and length less than width. Eye large, 

 slightly ellipsoid, anterior, without adipose or free eyelids. As seen 

 from below, eyes quite lateral, protrude out convexly on each side 

 of head, area across mandible appearing much narrower than inter- 

 orbital space. Mouth small, terminally superior, with short com- 

 missure. Teeth not evident. Lips apparently not free, though 

 fleshy. Mandible protudes slightly in front beyond snout tip. 

 moderate, and with rami but little elevated inside mouth. ]\Iaxillary 

 oblique, well inclined, reaches back nearly opposite front eye edge. 

 Nostrils small, inconspicuous, on upper sides of snout. Interorbital 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



broadly convex. Cheek without distinct suborbitals. Preopercle 

 edge nearly vertical. Opercle rather large, smooth. Slight fontanel 

 at anterior junctions of parietals with frontals medianly. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite preopercle edge. 

 Rakers moderate in number, lanceolate, on both branches of gill- 

 arch, and a little shorter than filaments. Gill-filaments about | of 

 eye. Gill-membranes united, form free fold across isthmus, which 

 convex and constricted. 



Scales large, cj^cloid, broadly exposed in nearly even longitudinal 

 series apparently' without striae, and of nearly uniform size. No 

 scales on fins, no 1. 1., and no axillary scaly flaps. 



Dorsal inserted posteriorly, its origin a little nearer caudal base 

 than hind edge of eye, first branched ray longest, and depressed fin 

 extends If to caudal base. No adipose fin. Caudal forked, lobes 

 pointed, free and equal. Anal inserted below last branched dorsal 

 rays basally, first branched ray longest, and depressed fin extends 

 1^ to caudal base. Pectoral low, rounded, moderate, and reaches 

 14 to ventral. Ventral inserted well before dorsal, or nearly midway 

 between pectoral and anal origins, fin extends 1| to anal. Vent 

 close before anal. 



Color in alcohol pale straw-brown, back slightly dusted with 

 minute dark dots, mostly formed closer along edges of scales above. 

 Lower surface of body immaculate. Including mandible tip, then 

 over preorbital across iris, preopercle and lower side medianly to 

 bases of median inferior caudal rays, a blackish band made up of 

 close-set dusky dots. This band narrow on head, though widens 

 over costal region to contract slightly along caudal peduncle laterally. 

 On caudal base dark lateral band reflected out on some of rays. 

 Iris slaty and orbital boundaries well defined on lower surface of 

 head, where their dark color strongly contrasts with white of mandi- 

 ble. Dorsal with large conspicuous black blotch, extends vertically 

 over fin from upper front edge to near bases of last branched rays. 

 Except for markings noted above, fins otherwise pale or whitish. 



Length 15 mm. 



Type, No. 39,188, A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River 

 near Porto Velho, Brazil. January or February, 1913. Edgar A, 

 Smith. 



This species differs from all of the others in the genus in the black 

 dorsal, blotch. Only the type known. 



{IriyiJ.a^ spot; Trjiitwv^ banner; with reference to the dark blotch 

 on the dorsal fin.) 




1913.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF- PHILADELPHIA. 



525 



Poecilobrycon digrammus sp. nov. Fig. 5. 



Head 3f ; depth 4|; D. ii, 9; A. ii, 9; P. i, 9; V. i, 6; scales 25 

 in median lateral series from gill-opening to caudal base; 6 scales 

 transversely between dorsal and ventral origins; 10 predorsal scales; 

 head width If in its length; head depth at occiput If; snout 3f ; 

 eye 3; mouth .width 4j; interorbital 3; first branched dorsal ray 

 1|; first branched anal ray 2|; least depth of caudal peduncle 3: 

 upper caudal lobe 1|; pectoral 1|; ventral If. 



Body elongate, slender, fusiform, moderately compressed, deepest 

 at ventral origin, edges all convex, and profiles similar. Caudal 

 peduncle well compressed, rather long, and least depth 2x in its 

 length measured from last branched anal ray base. 



Fig. 5. — PoEcilohnjcon digrammus Fowler. (T\-pe.) 



Head conic, elongate, profiles similar, broadly depressed above, 

 convex sides slightly constricted below. Snout conic, depressed, 

 tip obtuse as seen from above, and length about f its basal width. 

 Eye large, rounded, or slightly ellipsoid, placed slightly anterior, 

 with free edge and no adipose eyelid. Pupil rounded, moderateh- 

 large. Mouth small, terminal, transverse, with very short com- 

 missure. Lips thin. Maxillary small, inclined, not reaching back 

 to anterior nostril. Teeth uniserial in jaws, compressed, broad, 

 with five serrae or points equally along edge. Mandible shallow, 

 even with snout tip when closed, broad. Nostrils well separated, 

 anterior simple small pore near first f in snout length, and posterior 

 larger simple pore close before upper eye edge. Interorbital broad 

 and slightly convex. Preorbital large. Infraorbitals and post- 

 orbital well developed, cover cheek entirely, though first-named 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



mostly inclined inferiorly. Edge of preopercle behind slightly 

 inclined anteriorly. Opercle large and smooth. Upper surface of 

 head smooth, broad parietals without fontanel. 



Gill-opening extends forward slightly before hind eye edge, though 

 not so far as hind pupil edge. Rakers moderate in number, lanceo- 

 late, a little shorter than filaments, and latter about 2| in eye. 

 Isthmus broad, constricted in front, and surface convex. Branchios- 

 tegals large, subequal. 



Scales large, well exposed, of nearly uniform size, striae not evident, 

 and arranged in even longitudinal series. No scales on fins except 

 a few on caudal base. No 1. 1., and no axillary scaly flaps. 



Dorsal inserted slightly nearer caudal base than snout tip, first 

 ])ranched ray longest, and depressed fin extends 2j to caudal base. 

 Adipose fin small, inserted near last third in space between last 

 branched dorsal ray base and caudal ba§e, its length about 2f in eye. 

 Anal inserted well behind dorsal base, first branched ray longest, 

 and depressed fin extending slightly less than half way to caudal 

 base. Caudal moderate, well forked, with equal pointed lobes. 

 Pectoral low, upper rays longest, and fin extends about If to ventral. 

 Ventral origin a little before dorsal or about midway between pec- 

 toral and anal origins, fin large and reaches anal. Vent close before 

 anal. 



Color in alcohol largely brownish on back and upper surface of 

 body. Lower surface of body silvery-white, and this color strongly 

 contrasted with color of back by blackish lengthwise streak or band 

 extending from snout and mandible tips, through eyes, along side 

 a little low to inferior median caudal rays. Through most of its 

 course blackish lateral band defines middle of side by its upper bound- 

 ary. At base of last anal ray it continues out on distal portion of 

 same in contrast with rest of fin, and also covers good portion of 

 lower caudal peduncle side. Upper side of back with dusky streak 

 extending from posterior supraorbital region to bases of uppermost 

 l^ranched caudal rays, and its width much narrower than lower band. 

 Sloping obliquely "from just before dorsal origin toward basal region 

 of pectoral, a broad area of minute dusky clots. Above anal base 

 another similar area vertically from back to lower dark band, though 

 not extending below. Fins all pale or grayish to whitish, dorsal 

 slightly dusky toward apex. Iris slaty. 



Length 25 mm. 



Type, No. 39,189, A. N. S. P. Madeira River, about 200 miles 

 east of W. Long. 62° 20', Brazil. September, 1912. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



Also, Nos. 39,190 to 39,192, A. N. S. P., paratypes. From tribu- 

 tary of the Madeira River near Porto Velho, Brazil. January - 

 February, 1913. Edgar A. Smith. Head 3^ to 3f ; depth 4| to 4f ; 

 D. II, 8 or II, 9; A. ii, 8 or ii, 9; scales in median lateral series from 

 shoulder to caudal base 24 or 25 and usually 1 or 2 more on latter; 

 6 or 7 scales transversely between dorsal and ventral origins; 10 

 predorsal scales; snout 3^ to 3| in head; eye 2f to 3; mouth width 

 4i to 4|; interorbital 2f to 3; length 21 to 26 mm. 



This species is related to Poecilobrijcon harrisoni Eigenmann, but 

 differs in the presence of a dark dorso-lateral lengthwise streak, and 

 in the same way P. erythrurus Eigenmann and P. trifasciatus (Stein- 

 dachner) will also be found to differ. 



(^fs", two; ypai'i'^i, line; with reference to the two dark lengthwise 

 streaks.) 



APHYOCH ARACIN^. 

 Odontostilbe madeirae sp. nov. Fig. 0. 



Head 3|; depth 2|; D. iii, 9; A. iii, 20, i; P. i, 11; V. i, 7; 

 scales 35 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 6 scales above 

 1. 1. to dorsal origin; 4 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 5 scales 

 below 1. 1. to anal origin; 11 predorsal scales; head width 2 in its 

 length; head depth at occiput Ii; snout 4; eye 3|; maxillary 3|; 

 interorbital 3; first branched dorsal ray 1; first branched anal ray 

 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; upper caudal lobe 1; pectoral 

 \\; ventral If. 



Body moderately elongate, compressed, greatest depth at dorsal 

 origin, contour elongately ovoid, edges all convexly rounded with 

 slight median keel just before dorsal or extending nearly for last 

 half in predorsal area. Caudal peduncle compressed, and least 

 depth slightly less than its length. 



Head moderate, compressed, with similar profiles, and flattened 

 sides scarcely constricted below. Snout convex over surface and in 

 profile, length | its width. Eye large, rounded or but slightly 

 ellipsoid, its centre near first f in head. Pupil large. Eyelids free, 

 not adipose-like. Mouth broadly terminal, commissure short, and 

 jaws rather thin. Lips thin, little developed. Maxillary free, 

 oblique, reaches back opposite front edge of eye. Teeth uniserial 

 in jaws, well compressed, broad, edges of each with seven denticles, 

 of which median largest. Maxillary with two well-developed 

 similar teeth. Mandible rather broad, shallow, and rami slightly 

 elevated in mouth. Tongue broad, depressed, smooth, rounded and 




528 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



free in front. Nostrils together, near last f in snout length, anterior 

 simple pore and posterior exposed in crescent. Interorbital broadly 

 convex. Suborbitals well developed, entirely covering cheek, and 

 smooth. Hind preopercle edge slightly inclined back. Opercle 

 large, smooth, and with broad cutaneous edge to gill-cover. Parietal 

 fontanel rather broad and extends to occiput from frontals. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite first third in eye. 

 Rakers about 10+15, lanceolate, slender, about f length of filaments, 

 and latter about 1| in eye. Isthmus narrow, constricted in front, 

 surface convex. Branchiostegals subequally large, moderate. 



Fig. Q.—^dontostilbe madeiroe Fowler. (Type.) 



Scales large, all well exposed, in lengthwise series parallel with 

 I. 1., each with few radiating striae, and of mostly uniform size. 

 Caudal base with scales smaller than elsewhere. A few scales 

 basally along front of anal. Free pointed axillary scaly ventral flap, 

 and its length nearly 3 in fin. L. 1. complete, slightly inferior along 

 sides, though nearly straight. Tubes simple, well exposed, though 

 extending about half way over exposures of scales. 



Dorsal inserted nearly midway between snout tip and hind edge 

 of adipose fin, first branched ray longest, and fin reaches If to caudal 

 base. Adipose fin nearly equals eye in length, inserted about last 

 I in space between last dorsal ray base and caudal base. Caudal 

 rather large, well forked, and pointed lobes equal. Anal inserted 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



close behind dorsal base, first branched ray longest, extends 1| to 

 caudal base, and lower edge emarginate. Pectoral low, pointed, 

 upper rays longest, and fin extends about | to ventral. Ventral 

 inserted slightly behind dorsal origin, and extends to anal origin. 

 Vent formed at last fourth in space between ventral and anal origins. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish, paler or more whitish below. 

 Scales on back with their edges rather broadly dusted with dusky 

 dots. Also a patch of dusky dots above base of anal. Upper 

 surface of head with dusky dots, lower surface silvery or whitish. 

 Iris largely silvery, though pupil and broad vertical transverse bar 

 slaty to dusky. Concurrent with vertebral axis, a narrow, pale, 

 dusky line extends from behind shoulder, widens a little over anal, 

 then contracts and . ends medianly at caudal base. Latter with 

 large, black, rounded spot about size of eye. Fins otherwise all pale 

 or grayish. Peritoneum shows through walls of abdomen as whitish, 

 though posterior region showing cluster of dusky dots on costal 

 region posteriorly and belly anteriorly. 



Length 41 mm. 



Type, No. 39,193, A. N. S. P. Tributary of Rio Madeira near 

 Porto Velho, Brazil. January-February, 1913. Edgar A. Smith. 



Also Nos. 39,194 to 39,209, A. N. S. P., paratypes, same data. 

 Head 3| to 3f ; depth 2| to 3; D. in, 8, i or iii, 9, i; A. in, 21, i 

 to III, 23, i; scales 32 to 34 in 1. 1. to caudal base, and 2 or 3 more on 

 latter; 6 scales above 1. 1.; 4 or 5 scales below 1. 1.; 11 or 12 predorsal 

 scales; snout 3| to 4 in head; eye 2| to 3|; maxillary 3| to 4; inter- 

 orbital 2t to 3; length 33 to 43 mm. 



This species differs from Odontostilbe fugitiva Cope in its deeper 

 body and absence of the dark-edged silver lateral band. From the 

 other known species it differs in coloration and proportions. 



(Named for the Madeira River.) 

 Odontostilbe drepanon sp. nov. Fig. 7. 



Head 3i; depth 3|; D. ii, 8; A. in, 21, i; P. i, 11; V. i, 7; 

 scales 35 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 6 scales above 

 1. 1.; 5 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 6 scales below 1. 1. to anal 

 origin; 9 predorsal scales to occipital process; head width 2| its 

 length; head depth at occiput U; snout 3|; eye 3^; maxillary 3^; 

 interorbital 2|; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f; third simple 

 anal ray 1|; pectoral 1|; ventral 1|. 



Body elongate, well compressed, contour elongately ellipsoid, 

 deepest at dorsal origin, lower profile anteriorly a little more convex 

 than upper, postventral slightly trenchant, and other edges convexly 




530 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct. 



rounded. Caudal peduncle well compressed, length about equals 

 its least depth. 



Head moderate, compressed, profiles similar, and flattened sides 

 scarcely constricted below. Snout convex over surface and in 

 profile, length f its width. Eye rounded or slightly ellipsoid, scarcely 

 elevated and its centre falls at first f in head. Pupil moderate, 

 vertically ellipsoid. Eyelids free, not adipose-like. Mouth terminal, 

 broad, with short commissure. Lips moderately fleshy, firm. Max- 

 illary well inclined, free, short, not extending back to front eye edge. 

 Teeth uniserial in jaws, upper more concealed by lips, and each one 



Fig. 7. — Odonlodilbe drepanon Fowler. (Type.) 



crenulated or with five to seven points along edge. Mandibular 

 teeth a little larger. Maxillary with two rather inconspicuous teeth 

 basally. Inner buccal folds moderate. Tongue depressed, rounded 

 and free in front. Mandible shallow, included within upper jaw 

 when closed so that latter slightly projects, and rami not elevated 

 inside mouth. Nostrils large, together, close before eye, anterior 

 simple pore and posterior larger crescent. Interorbital evenl}' 

 convex. Suborbitals well developed, smooth, and large infraorbital 

 completely covers cheek. Hind preopercle edge nearly vertical. 

 Opercle large, deep, with several weak striae, and upper hind edge 

 moderately emarginated. Occipital fontanel extends from hind 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



division of froiitals to occipital process, moderately broad. Occipital 

 process rather short and narrowly triangular. 



Gill-opening extends forwards opposite front edge of pupil. Rakers 

 about 6 + 12, slender, lanceolate, about f length of filaments, and 

 latter If in eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted, its surface largely 

 convex. Branchiostegals rather long, subequal. 



Scales moderate, well exposed in longitudinal series parallel with 

 1. 1., cycloid, and of mostly uniform size. Caudal base covered with 

 small scales. Few scales along anterior base of anal, disposed in 

 short row. Ventral with free axillary pointed scaly flap -5 length of 

 fin. L. 1. complete, decurved slightly below middle in greatest depth 

 and extending a little low along side of caudal peduncle to middle of 

 caudal base. Tubes simple, and each one extends over scale exposure 

 well anteriorly, though not nearly to its hind edge. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and hind edge of 

 adipose fin, third simple ray prolonged and filamentous and extends 

 back nearly to origin of adipose fin. Adipose fin rather large, 

 slightly less than eye in length, and inserted near last third in space 

 ])etween dorsal origin and caudal base. Caudal well forked, a little 

 longer than head, pointed lobes about equal. Anal inserted Ijehind 

 dorsal base, third simple ray longest, from which they gradually 

 diminish posteriorly, though form slight lobe in front. Pectoral 

 low, slender, pointed, reaches ventral. Latter inserted before dorsal 

 or much nearer anal than pectoral origin, and first ray produced 

 into a filament to extend back beyond front of anal. Yent close in 

 front of anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, below paler or whitish. 

 Back with minute dusky dots, mostly arranged along edges of scales. 

 A rather narrow underlaid silvery lateral streak from shoulder to 

 caudal base. Caudal base covered with rather large dusky dots to 

 form pale dusky blotch a little larger than eye, and not reflected on 

 caudal medianly. Head dusky above, sides and below silvery to 

 whitish. Jaws pale. Iris whitish, slaty above and below. No 

 dark humeral blotch. Fins all pale or whitish. Peritoneum shows 

 through abdominal walls as pale slaty, and on preventral and post- 

 ventral region pale with rather large rounded dusky close-set dots. 



Length 40 mm. 



Type, No. 39,210, A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River 

 near Porto Velho, Brazil. January-February, 1913. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 



Also Nos. 39,211 to 39.216, paratypes, same data. Head 3^ to 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.^ 



31; depth 3i to 3§; D. iii, 9; A. iv, 20, i to iv, 23, i; scales 32 to 35 

 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 2 or 3 more on latter; 6 scales above 1. 1.; 

 5 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; 11 or 12 predorsal scales; snout 

 3^ to 4 in head; eye 3^ to 3^; maxillary 3i to 3f ; interorbital ^ 

 to 3|; length 35 to 39 mm. 



Closely related to Odontostilbe fugitiva Cope- with which it agrees 

 in many characters. It appears to differ, however, in the prolonged 

 dorsal and paired fins. 



{Apin'avw^, curved scimetar; with reference to the long curved simple 

 rays of the dorsal and ventral fins.) 

 Aphyooharax avary sp. nov. Fig. 8. "Avary." 



Head 3|; depth 4^; D. iii, 9, i; A. iii, 14, i; P. i, 13; V. i, 7; 

 scales 38 in median lateral series to caudal base and 4 more on latter; 

 11 tubes in 1. 1.; 11 scales transversely between dorsal origin and 

 ventral origin; 19 predorsal scales; head width If its depth; head 

 depth at occiput If; first branched dorsal ray l\; first branched 

 anal ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; pectoral \\; ventral 

 If; snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3f ; maxillary 

 3; interorbital 2f. 



Body elongate, rather slender, compressed, fusiform, greatest 

 depth at dorsal origin, and edges mostly evenly convex, except short 

 and obsolete median keel in posterior half of predorsal and another 

 in same region of preventral. Caudal peduncle well compressed, 

 its least depth \\ in its length. 



Head small, profiles similarly convex, compressed and flattened 

 sides but slightly constricted below. Snout short, convex over 

 surface and in profile, and its length about f its width. Eye large, 

 rounded, high, and its centre about first f in head. Pupil large, 

 rounded. Eyelid free and not adipose-like. Mouth moderate, 

 broad. Lips fleshy, firm, little free. Maxillary long, slender, free, 

 well inclined, and reaches back opposite front pupil edge. Teeth 

 in jaws small, rather slender, conic, uniserial, and each usually with 

 very small or obsolete pointed basal cusp. Maxillary with about 

 4 more or less concealed small uniform simple conic teeth along its 

 upper front edge. Tongue moderately long, rather pointed, de- 

 pressed, free in front. Inner buccal folds rather narrow. Mandible 

 moderately protruded beyond snout tip in front, rather shallow, and 

 rami but little elevated inside mouth. Nostrils large, together, 

 within last half of snout length, anterior simple pore and posterior 



» Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, Phila., XI, 1871, p. 566, fig. (teeth). Pebas, Ecuador. 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



533 



exposed in crescent. Interorbital broadly convex. Preorbital 

 small, narrow. Infraorbital and postorbital large, smooth, 

 completel}' cover cheek. Hind preopercle edge inclined a little 

 forward. Opercle rather large, smooth. Parietal fontanel rather 

 well developed, extends from hind frontal fusion to occiput. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite first third in eye. 

 Rakers about 5 + 11, slender, lanceolate, about 1^ in filaments, and 

 latter If in eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted, with groove in front 

 longitudinally and convex behind. Branchiostegals robust, rather 

 long, subequal. 



Scales moderate, all well exposed, disposed in nearly even longi- 



Fig. 8. — Aphyocharax avary Fowler. (Type. 



tudinal series, each with a few radiating striae, and of nearly uniform 

 size. On caudal base scales become little smaller than on trunk. 

 Pectoral and ventral each with pointed free axillary scaly flap, 

 former short and latter nearly | length of fin. A few scales form 

 basal series to anterior anal rays. L. 1. incomplete, only extends 

 anteriorly from shoulder nearly opposite ventral origin. Tubes 

 simple, extend over first half in scale exposures. 



Dorsal origin midway between hind nostril and caudal base, first 

 branched ray longest, and fin extends half way to caudal base. 

 Adipose fin inserted about last third in space between dorsal origin 

 and caudal base, its length little less than eye. Anal inserted behind 

 dorsal base, first branched ray longest and extends abo^ut half way 

 to caudal base. Caudal well forked, lobes pointed and subequal. 

 Pectoral pointed, upper rays longest, and fin extends | to ventral. 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Latter inserted well before dorsal origin, and fin extends | to anal. 

 Vent placed about opposite middle in depressed ventral length. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish, nearly uniform. Back with edges 

 of scales dusted with dusky dots, also lower sides above anal and 

 along lower surface of caudal peduncle, only separated by silvery 

 lateral band which extends from shoulder to caudal base medianly. 

 A dusky vertical ellipsoid blotch, embracing third, fourth and fifth 

 scales of 1. 1., and its greater extent above same. Dorsal with a 

 somewhat irregular transverse or horizontal median streak made up 

 of dusky dots. Caudal with median rays, base and edges of rays 

 sprinkled with minute dusky dots. Anal broadly whitish in front, 

 rest of fin sprinkled with dusky dots and latter forming dark lower 

 edge to fin. Fins otherwise pale or whitish. Head Avith dusky dots 

 above, sides and below whitish. Iris slaty, with dusky shade above 

 and below. 



Leng-th 54 mm. 



Type, No. 39,217, A. N. S. P. Madeira River, about 200 miles 

 east of Long. 62° 20' W., Brazil. •September, 1912. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 



Only the type known. This species is related to Aphyocharax 

 eques Steindachner,^ but differs in the absence of the black dorsal 

 blotch. 



{Avary, the native name.) 



PKIONOBRAMA g. n. nov. 

 Type, Prionohrama madeirce. 



Body strongly compressed, elongately ovoid. Head small, com- 

 pressed. Snout short, convex, rather conic. Eye large, not elevated, 

 without adipose eyelid. Mouth superiorly terminal, opens level 

 with upper edge of eye, short in commissure, broad. Teeth uniserial, 

 simple, rather short, uniform, conic, in both jaws. Entire edge of 

 maxillary toothed. Maxillary well inclined, reaches past front of 

 eye. Interorbital convex. Large fontanel from frontals to occipital 

 process. Gill-rakers moderate in number, slender, longer than 

 filaments. Scales rather small, cycloid. Caudal scaly basally. 

 Anal with basal scales. ]» 1. incomplete. Dorsal inserted little 

 posterior. Adipose fin slender. Caudal forked. Anal inserted 

 opposite dorsal origin, third simple ray prolonged. Pectoral and 



» Denk. Ak. Wiss., Wien, XLVI, 188-3, p. .37. Obidos and Villa Bella. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



ventral pointed. Color largely pale. Obscure or pale humeral 

 blotch. No caudal blotch. 



One species in the Madeira River basin. This genus appears 

 allied to Holoshesthes Eigenmann, and Holoprion Eigenmann, in the 

 completely denticulated maxillary. It differs, however, in the 

 simple conic teeth and more numerous anal rays. From Holoshes- 

 thes it differs in the incomplete 1. 1. Coelurichthys Ribeiro I have 

 been unable to consult. 



(Ilpcw^, saw; /^/"z/^-a, bream; in allusion to the superficial resemblance 

 to the bream.) 

 Prionobrama madeirae sp. nov. Fig. 9. 



Head 4^; depth 3|; D. ii, 8; iii, 32, i, P. i, 12; V. i, 7; scales 

 39 in 1. 1. to caudal base, and 4 more on latter; 10 tubes in 1. 1.; 12 

 scales transversely between dorsal and ventral origins; 15 scales 

 before dorsal to occipital process; head width 2 in its length; head 

 depth at occiput 2; mandible 2|; least depth of caudal peduncle 1|; 

 ventral 1; snout 3| in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3; 

 maxillary 2|; interorbital 3. 



Body well compressed, elongate, ovoid in contour, deepest at dorsal 

 origin, lower profile a little more evenly convex than upper, post- 

 ventral trenchant and other edges convexly rounded. Caudal 

 peduncle well compressed, its length about f its least depth. 



Head rather small, compressed, upper profile nearly straight and 

 much less inclined than more convex lower, and flattened sides but 

 slightly constricted below. Snout convex over surface and anteriorly 

 in profile, and its length about f its width. Eye large, rounded, not 

 elevated, its centre about first f in head. Pupil rather large, verti- 

 cally ellipsoid. Eyelids free, not adipose-like. Mouth superiorly 

 terminal, broad, with short commissure. Lips firm. Maxillary 

 free, rather slender, well inclined beyond front eye edge, though not 

 to that of pupil. Teeth uniserial, conic, simple, small, nearly uniform. 

 In upper jaw teeth continuous along edge of maxillary to its lower 

 extremity. Mandibular teeth slightly larger and recurved at 

 symphysis, also at their anterior termination along sides of mandib- 

 ular rami, and beyond latter point teeth uniformly small and incon- 

 spicuous if present. Inner buccal folds broad. Tongue depressed 

 free and rather pointed in front. Mandible convex over surface 

 protrudes slightly and rami not elevated inside mouth. Nostrils 

 together, large, level with upper eye edge, anterior simple pore and 

 posterior wide crescent. Interorbital evenly convex. Suborbitals 

 smooth, and large infraorbital completely covers cheek. Hind 




536 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



preopercle edge vertical. Opercle smooth, deep, upper posterior 

 margin slightly emarginate. Occipital fontanel well developed, 

 from between frontals posteriorly to occipital process. Latter short, 

 forms nearly equilateral triangle. 



Gill-opening extends forward but slightly behind front edge of 

 eye, before that of pupil. Rakers about 5 + 12, slender, elongately 

 lanceolate, a little longer than filaments, or about 1| in eye. Isthmus 

 narrowly constricted in front, elongate, surface anteriorly with 

 groove and posteriorly convex. Branchiostegals moderate, subequal. 



Scales moderately small, well exposed in longitudinal series, 



Fig. 9. — Prionohrama madeirce Fowler. (Type.) 



cycloid, of nearly uniform size. Caudal scaled basally. Anal with 

 basal scaly sheath to greater anterior portion of fin. Free pointed 

 axillary ventral scaly flap nearly I length of fin. L. 1. incomplete, 

 begins at. shoulder and extends over only ten consecutive scales. 

 Tubes simple, and each only about half way over scale exposure 

 anteriorly. 



Dorsal origin about midway between eye centre and caudal base, 

 first branched ray longest, and depressed fin extends If to caudal 

 base. Adipose fin slender, a little shorter than eye, inserted about 

 last 7 in space between dorsal origin and caudal base. Anal origin 

 opposite that of dorsal, third simple ray prolonged into a filament 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



SO that it is but little shorter than entire anal basis, anterior branched 

 rays soon sloping down and greater part of fin low. Caudal longer 

 than head, well forked, lobes pointed and equal. Pectoral large, 

 low, broad, upper rays longest, and fin extends a little beyond ventral 

 base. Ventral inserted nearer anal than pectoral, also extends back 

 a little beyond front of former. Yent close behind ventral roots, 

 remote from anal. 



Color in alcohol pale l)rownish, lower surface scarcely paler. 

 Back and surface of trunk above anal base finely punctate with 

 minute dusky dots. Humeral region, rather narrow lateral streak 

 medianly, abdomen and lower surface of head, silvery- white. 



Head brownish above. Iris whitish, pupil slaty. A very pale 

 humeral blotch vertically ovoid and its length in vertical diameter 

 about equals that of eye. No caudal blotch. Fins all pale. 



Length .53 mm. 



Type, No. 39,218, A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River near 

 Porto Velho, Brazil. January-February, 1913. Edgar A. Smith. 



Also No. 39,219, A. N. S. P., paratype, same data. Head 4; 

 depth 3; D. ii, 8; A. iii, 32, i; scales 38 in lateral series to caudal 

 base, and 3 more on latter; 11 tubes in 1. 1.; 12 scales in transverse 

 series between dorsal and anal origins; 15 scales before dorsal to 

 occipital process; snout 4 in head, measured from upper jaw tip; 

 eye 3; maxillary 2|; interorbital 3; length 46 mm. 



(Named for the Madeira River.) 



TETRAGONOPTERIX.E. 



Ctenobrycon rhabdops sp. nov. Fig. 10. 



Head 3f; depth 2; D. m, 9, i; A. iv, 46, i; P. i, 15; V. i, 7; 

 scales 49 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 12 scales above 

 1. 1.; 13 scales below 1. 1., to anal origin; 13 predorsal scales to 

 occipital process; head width 1| in its length; head depth at occiput 

 lyV; mandible 3; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; first branched 

 anal ray 1|; pectoral lyV; ventral 1|; snout 4 in head measured 

 from upper jaw tip; eye 2|; maxillary 2f ; interorbital 2|. 



Body well compressed, general contour deeplj^ ovoid, with greatest 

 depth at dorsal origin, upper anterior profile concave-convex and 

 lower profile rather evenly convex. Predorsal and post ventral 

 with slight median keels, body edges otherwise evenly convex. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed, about long as deep. 



Head small, lower profile a little more inclined than upper, and 

 nearly flattened sides but slightly constricted towards lower surface. 

 36 




538 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct. 



Snout short, convex in profile and over surface, its length about 

 half its width. Eye large, ellipsoid, but little elevated and centre 

 near first third in head. Pupil moderate, rounded. Eyelids free, 

 not adipose-like. Mouth broad, with short commissure, superiorly 

 terminal. Maxillary almost vertical, not quite extended to eye 

 or opposite lower edge of eye, and free. Lips fleshy, upper firm, 

 lower thicker and more free. Teeth in upper jaw biserial, 8 in each 

 series, anterior smaller and tricuspid though in an even row parallel 



Fig. 10. — Ctenobrycon rhabdops Fowler. (Type.) 



with posterior, and latter larger and mosth' quincuspid, No maxil- 

 lary teeth. ^Mandibular teeth a single series of 8, symphyseal pair 

 largest with others moderately graduated smaller on each side 

 posteriorly, larger quindentate and smaller tridentate. Inner 

 buccal folds broad. Tongue depressed, rather broad and smooth, 

 pointed and free in front. Mandible strong, protrudes slightly in 

 front, and rami little elevated inside mouth. Nostrils together, 

 rather large, placed within last half of snout length close before eyes 

 above, anterior simple pore and posterior larger crescentic -slit. 

 Interorbital broadly convex. Preorbital small, and infraorbital 

 very large, completely covers cheek, its surface smooth. Hind 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



preopercle edge bent well forward. Opercle deep, smooth. Top of 

 head with rather large fontanel extending from interorbital space 

 well back within occipital process. Last reaches nearl}- | to dorsal 

 origin. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite front eye edge. Rak- 

 ers about 8 + 12, slender, lanceolate, about f length of filaments, 

 and latter about I of eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted in front, 

 with slight median groove, and convex over surface behind. Branchi- 

 ostegals moderately long, subequal. 



Scales slightly ctenoid, small, moderately imbricated, disposed 

 in longitudinal series parallel with 1. 1., and of mostly uniform size. 

 Along predorsal ridge, on trunk along anal base, and on caudal base 

 scales all slightly smaller. A row of one or two small scales extends 

 basally along anal its entire length. Scales on breast large as those 

 on costal region. Each scale on body with several radiating striae. 

 Scales extend completely over body edges. Broad free axillary 

 pectoral scale, and pointed free axillary ventral scaly flap nearly 

 3 in fin. L. 1. complete, very slightly decurved so that largely 

 median, though extends a little low along side of caudal peduncle 

 to caudal base. Tubes simple, all well exposed, though not quite 

 reaching edges of scales. 



Dorsal origin about midway between mandible tip and hind edge 

 of adipose fin, first branched ray longest and a little longer than 

 head, and depressed fin reaches about f to adipose fin. Origin of 

 adipose fin near last third in space between origin of dorsal and 

 caudal base, fin about U in eye. Anal origin slightly before that 

 of dorsal, anterior rays a little higher than others, and edge of fin 

 nearly straight, its long base but slightly curved. Caudal moderate, 

 well forked, lobes pointed and lower slightly longer, both a little 

 longer than head. Pectoral low, upper rays longest, and depressed 

 tip falls slightly before dorsal origin. Ventral low, inserted nearly 

 midway between pectoral and dorsal origins and extends back beyond 

 front anal ray bases. Vent close in front of anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish almost everywhere, except on abdo- 

 men below and lower surface of head, dusted with minute dusky dots. 

 Edge of back and upper surface of head dusky. A narrow underlaid 

 silvery line or streak extends from shoulder to median caudal base, 

 and posteriorly in its course becoming plumbeous or leaden. Third 

 and fourth scales of I. I. crossed by deep dark blotch, above extending 

 well up above head in profile and below a little over half way towards 

 base of pectoral fin, so that it appears inchned forward. It is made 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



up of crowded dusky or blackish dots. Behind and in front a pale 

 or whitish area, more extensive and vaguely defined. Blackish 

 blotch, largely vertical, embraces caudal base. Iris whitish, though 

 marked with broad slaty-dusky vertical streak. Fins all pale, 

 marked with minute dusky dots. Belly, sides, and lower surface of 

 head silvery-white. 



Length 56 mm. 



Type, No. 39,220, A. N. S. P. Igarape de Candelaria (about two 

 miles from the Madeira River, into which it empties), in Lat. S. 

 8° 45', Long. W. 63° 54', Brazil. September, 1912. Edgar A. Smith. 



Also, Nos. 39,221 to 39,223, A. N. S. P., paratypes, same data. 

 Head 3| to 3^; depth 2; D. iii, 8, i or iii, 9, i; A. iv, 43, i to iv, 46, i; 

 scales 47 or 48 in 1. 1. to caudal base, and 2 more on latter; 12 or 13 

 scales above 1. 1.; 13 or 14 scales below 1. 1.; 13 or 14 predorsal scales; 

 snout 3f to 4 in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2f to 2f ; 

 maxillary 2f to 3; interorbital 2| to 2|; length 51 or 52 mm. 



This species is apparently related to Ctenobnjcon alleni (Eigenmann 

 and Ward),^ but that species differs in having a more curved or 

 undulated predorsal profile, and much fewer anal rays (40-41). 

 The figure is from a very unsatisfactory photograph, and in no way, 

 except possibly the general profile, portrays the many characters 

 desired but omitted in the brief description. Characteristic of the 

 present species is the dark vertical streak through the eye. 



(/'a/?(5o9, streak; (^<p, eye.) 



Moenkhausia lepidura madeirae subsp. nov. Fig. 11. 



Head 3f; depth 3f;'D. iii, 9; A. iv, 19, i; P. i, 14; V. i, 7; 

 scales 34 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 6 scales above 

 1. 1.; 4 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 4 scales below 1. 1. to anal 

 origin; 13 predorsal scales, 11 to occipital process; head width 1| 

 its length; head depth at occiput Ij; mandible 2|; first branched 

 dorsal ray lyV; first branched anal ray 1|; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 2f ; pectoral 1|; ventral If; snout 3f in head measured 

 from upper jaw tip; eye 2f ; maxillary 2|; interorbital 3. . 



Body elongate, compressed, with fusiform contour, deepest at 

 dorsal origin, profiles alike, and a slight median predorsal ridge, 

 other edges rounded convexly. Caudal peduncle compressed, about 

 long as deep. 



Head moderately small, compressed, profiles similar, and flattened 



* Tetragonopterus alleni Eigenmann and Ward, Ann. Carnegie Miis., IV, 1907, 

 p. 126, PI. 40, fig. 2. Corumba, Rio Otuquis, Ascuncion, Paraguay. 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



541 



sides but slightly constricted below. Snout convex in profile and 

 over surface, length about | its width. Eye large, round, a little 

 high, centre falls about first f in head. Pupil rather large. Eyelids 

 free, not adipose-like. Mouth terminal, broad, commissure short. 

 Lips fleshy, upper firm, lower thick and more free, Maxillary well 

 inclined, rather long or reaches beyond front eye edge nearly to that 

 of pupil, and well exposed. Upper teeth biserial, 8 teeth in each 

 series, those in inner series largest, and all quindentate. No maxil- 

 lary teeth. Mandibular teeth uniserial, quindentate, largest at 

 symphysis, and 8 enlarged ones in front of jaw. Along sides of 



Fig. 11. — Mcenkhausia lepidura madeirce Fowler. (Type.) 



rami a single series of small conic simple uniform teeth, all much 

 lower than anterior ones. Inner buccal folds broad, especially upper. 

 Tongue broad, depressed, rounded and free in front. Mandible 

 strong, slightly protrudes, and rather shallow, rami of about even 

 and moderate elevation inside mouth. Nostrils together, placed 

 close before eye, behind middle in snout length, anterior simple pore 

 and posterior exposed in larger crescent. Interorbital rather broadly 

 convex. Preorbital narrow. Infraorbital broad and not entirely 

 covering cheek, but leaving very narrow naked strip along ridge of 

 preopercle. Hind preopercle edge vertical. Opercle deep and, 

 like suborbitals, smooth. Fontanel on top of head large, broad, 

 extends from front interorbital region back till within occipital 

 process. Latter extends | of space to dorsal origin. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite front edge of pupil. 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Rakers about 8 + 16, slender, lanceolate, pointed, a little shorter 

 than filaments, and latter about 2^ in eye. Is'thmus narrowly 

 constricted, with short median groove in front and posterior portion 

 convex. Branchiostegals moderate, subequal. 



Scales moderate, cycloid, rather well exposed, each with several 

 radiating striae, disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1. 1., and 

 in size mostly uniform. Caudal over greater basal portion covered 

 with small scales, though medianly scarcely smaller than on side 

 of body. Several scales form slight sheath at base of anal anteriorly. 

 Ventral axil with free pointed scaly flap, about 3^ in fin. Scales 

 completely pass over edges of body. L. 1. complete, slightly de- 

 curved until falling f in greatest body depth, and extends a little 

 low along side of caudal peduncle to caudal base. Tubes simple, 

 and extend well over scales, though not quite to their hind edges. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and caudal base, 

 first branched ray longest, and depressed fin extending slightly over 

 half way to base of caudal. Adipose fin slightly behind last third in 

 space between dorsal origin and caudal base, its length about | of 

 eye. Anal inserted slightly behind dorsal base, first branched ray 

 longest, so that anterior fin elevated in distinct lobe. Caudal well 

 forked, rather broad and pointed lobes about equal. Pectoral low, 

 pointed, upper rays longest, and when depressed fall a little short of 

 ventral. Ventral inserted a little before dorsal and extends | to 

 anal. Vent a little behind last third in postventral region. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, paler or more whitish 

 below, as on lower sides and under surface of head, and abdomen. 

 Edges of scales on back all broadly brownish. Upper surface of 

 head brownish, also muzzle. Iris slaty. Fins all pale, except 

 variegated caudal, which with large black blotch basally, continued 

 out on middle rays and outer half of each lobe with a large jet-black 

 blotch. Along side of trunk- a dusky vertebral streak, widening 

 posteriorly to blackish and finally merging with caudal blotch. 

 In dark lateral streak, two scales from head, black rounded blotch 

 large as pupil. 



Length 57 mm. 



Type, No. 39,224, A. N. S. P. Tributary of Rio Madeira near 

 Porto Velho, Brazil. January-February, 1913. - Edgar A. Smith. 



Also, Nos. 39,225 to 39,227, A. N. S. P., paratypes, same data. 

 Head 3| to 3|; depth 3f to 4; D. in, 9; A. iv, 19, i; scales 32 to 

 34 in 1. 1. to caudal base, and 1 or 2 more on latter; 6 scales above 

 1. 1.; 4 or 5 scales below 1. 1.; 10 or 11 predorsal scales to occipital 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543 



process; snout 3j to 3f in head; eye 2f to 2f ; maxillary 2| to 2|; 

 interorbital 2| to 3; length 52 to 55 mm. 



This form seems to be closely related to Moenkhausia lepidura 

 (Kner). It perhaps approaches nearest the subspecies M. lepidura 

 gracilima Eigenmann, differing apparently only in color, so far as 

 the short account will permit of comparison. Villa Bella specimens 

 are described as having the color of the caudal faint, a duskiness ex- 

 tending upon lower caudal lobe, and humeral spot not well defined. 

 Serpa specimens have middle caudal rays and distal parts of other 

 rays, and upper and lower edges of fin, dusky. 



(Named for the Madeira River.) 

 Hemigrammus melanochrous sp. nov. Fig. 12. 



Head 3f; depth 3f; D. ii, 9; A. iv, 18, i; P. i, 10; V. i, 7; 

 scales 32 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 2 more on latter; 

 1. 1. of 7 tubes anteriorly from shoulder; 10 scales transversely 

 between dorsal and ventral origins; 10 predorsal scales to occipital 

 process; head width 2yV its length; head depth at occiput 1^; 

 snout 3f; eye2f; maxillary 2; interorbital 2| ; first branched dorsal 

 ray 1; first branched anal raj^ 1^; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 2f; pectoral IJ; ventral If. 



Body elongately ovoid, deepest at dorsal origin, compressed 

 profiles more or less similar, and edges all convexly rounded. Caudal 

 peduncle well compressed, and its least depth nearly equals its length. 



Head moderate, compressed, lower profile a little more inclined 

 or convex than upper, and nearly flattened sides slightly approxi- 

 mating below. Snout convex over surface and in profile, length 

 about f its width. Eye large, rounded, rather high, and its centre a 

 little anterior in head. Pupil large, rounded. Eyelids free, not 

 adipose-like. Mouth large, wide, commissure rather short. Lips 

 rather thin and mostly firm. Maxillary long, rather slender, well 

 inclined, free, and extends back opposite front pupil edge. Teeth in 

 upper jaw biserial, those in inner row larger, quindentate. No 

 maxillary teeth. Mandible with a row of ten quindentate, large, 

 subequal teeth, though no small posterior lateral ones. Inner buccal 

 folds broad. Tongue moderate, depressed, rounded and free in front. 

 Mandible strong, surface convex, rami of moderate and uniformly 

 low height inside mouth, not elevated, and when closed even with 

 snout tip. Suborbitals well developed, infraorbital almost covering 

 cheeks, but very narrow naked strip below, smooth. Hind edge of 

 preopercle vertical, smooth. Opercle deep, upper hind edge emar- 

 ginate. Occipital fontanel broad, extends from anterior interorbital 




544 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct. 



till within occipital process, and latter extends about | of distance 

 to dorsal origin. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite front pupil edge. 

 Rakers about 6 + 10, slender, short, little less than filaments, and 

 latter about 3 in eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted, surface convex. 

 Branchiostegals rather small, subequal. 



Scales moderate, well exposed in longitudinal series, each with 

 a few radiating striae, and of nearly uniform size. Caudal base 

 scaly, and a few scales in a row along anal base in front. Free 

 pointed axillary ventral scaly flap, its length about | that of fin. 



Fig. 12. — Hemigram7nus melanochrous Fowler. (Type.) 



L. 1. incomplete, of simple short tubes, anterior on scales, and its 

 extent not quite so far back as tip of depressed pectoral. 



Dorsal inserted midway between snout tip and hind edge of 

 adipose fin, first branched ray longest, and depressed fin reaches 

 about I to caudal base. Adipose fin with base over last anal rays, 

 fin about | of eye. Anal inserted slightly behind base of dorsal 

 ray, first branched ray longest, forms with other anterior rays 

 elevated pointed lobe. Caudal well forked, lobes pointed and equal. 

 Pectoral long, pointed, upper rays longest, and tip of depressed fin 

 extending slightly beyond ventral origin. Ventral inserted slightly 

 before dorsal and depressed fin reaches anal. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol dull brownish generally, made up of small dusky 

 dots, forming broad nebulous area all along sides and well-defined 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



broad edges to scales on back. A dark vertebral streak along side 

 of bodj^ becomes blackish along caudal peduncle side, and joins 

 ill-defined caudal blotch behind. Caudal blotch blackish, a little 

 smaller than eye and continued out over median caudal rays. At 

 third scale of vertebral streak, also on fourth, a nearly cuboid blackish 

 humeral blotch. Upper surface of head, muzzle and side with 

 dusky dots. Iris slaty. Isthmus pale. Fins all sprinkled or 

 dusted with dusk}' dots. 



Length 33 mm. 



Type, No. 39,228, A. N. S. P. Tributary of Madeira River near 

 Porto Velho, Brazil. January-February, 1913. Edgar A. Smith. 



Also, No. 39,229, A. N. S. P., paratype, same data. Head 3|; 

 depth 3^; D. ii, 9; A. iv, 18, i; scales 32 in median lateral series 

 to caudal base, and 2 more on latter; 1. 1. of 8 tubes; 10 scales trans- 

 versely between dorsal and ventral origins; 10 predorsal scales to 

 occipital process; snout 3j in head; eye 2j; maxillary 2; inter- 

 orbital 2f ; length 30 mm. 



This species resembles Hemigrammus schmardcv (Steindachner) 

 in color, though differs in the absence of maxillary teeth. 



(MeXay/poo?^ swarthy, with reference to the general color.) 

 Hemigrammus ocellifer (Steindachner). 



Two examples from Igarape Candelaria (about two miles from the 

 Madeira River, and into which it flows), in S. Lat. 8° 45', W. Long. 

 63° 54', Brazil. September, 1912. 



Fourteen examples from the Madeira River, about 200 miles east 

 of W. Long. 62° 20', Brazil. September, 1912. 

 Hyphessobrycon hasemani sp. nov. Fig. 13. 



Head 3i; depth 3|; D. ii, 8; A. in, 27; P. i, 10; V. i, 8; scales 

 about 32 in median lateral series to caudal base; 10 scales trans- 

 versely between dorsal and ventral origins; 11 predorsal scales; 

 head width 2 in its length; head depth 1| at occiput; mandible 2^; 

 first branched dorsal ray about lyV; first branched anal ray If; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 3f; upper caudal lobe 1; pectoral 

 If; ventral 2; snout 4| in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 

 2f; maxillary 3^; interorbital 3|. 



Body elongate, compressed, upper profile forms broad obtuse 

 angle at origin of dorsal, which point deepest part of body, predorsal 

 with obsolete median ridge and edges otherwise rounded convexly. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed, small, its length from last anal ray 

 base about equal to its least tlepth. 




546 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct. 



Head moderate, compressed, lower profile a little more convex 

 than upper, and nearly flattened sides only very slightly constricted 

 below. Snout short, convex over surface and in profile, length about 

 half its width. Eye large, rounded, high, centre about first f in 

 head. Pupil large. Eyelids free. Mouth broad, terminal, short 

 in commissure. Maxillary free, well inclined, extends back slightly 

 Ijeyond front eye edge, though not to that of pupil. Lips firm, 

 moderate. Teeth small, inconspicuous, conic, broad basally, biserial 

 in upper jaw, and uniserial in lower. No maxillary teeth. Upper 

 inner buccal fold broader than lower. Tongue depressed, rounded 

 and free in front. ]\Iandil)le strong, rami scarcely elevated inside 



Fig. 13. — Hyphessobnjcon hasemani Fowler. (Type.) 



mouth, and tip in front extends forward slightly before snout tip. 

 Nostrils together in posterior part of snout before eye, anterior 

 simple and posterior crescentic. Interorbital slightly convex. 

 Suborbitals well developed, and completely cover cheek, surfaces 

 smooth. Opercle with upper hind edge emarginate, deep, smooth. 

 Top of head apparently with broad fontanel as upper surface of 

 cranium soft, both in parietal and frontal region. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite front pupil edge. 

 Rakers about 7 + 12?, slender, lanceolate, a little smaller than 

 filaments, and latter about f in eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted, 

 convex over surface. Branchiostegals moderate, slender, subequal. 



Scales large, well exposed in lengthwise series, and of more or less 

 equal size. Except several scales on -caudal base fins scaleless, and 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



no axillary flaps. L. 1. not developed, except on 3 scales anteriorlj', 

 and these interrupted after first by break of two scales. 



Dorsal origin about midway between hind nostril and caudal 

 base, first branched ray longest, and depressed fin extends If to 

 caudal base. Adipose fin placed over last anal ray bases, fin about 

 f in eye. Anal inserted below anterior dorsal rays, first branched 

 ray longest and forms with other anterior rays conspicuous elevated 

 pointed lobe extending back when depressed opposite origin of adipose 

 fin. Caudal well forked, pointed lobes rather slender and equal. 

 Pectoral low, pointed, upper rays longest, and depressed fin extends 

 opposite ventral insertion. Latter a little before dorsal origin and 

 depressed fin extends back nearly to base of first branched anal ray. 

 Vent close before anal origin. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish, below lighter. Back with edges 

 of scales narrowly dusky. No humeral blotch or caudal blotch. 

 Head brownish above, sides and below whitish. Iris whitish, dusky 

 above and below, now largeh^ turned slaty. Fins all pale, anal and 

 caudal dusted with minute dusky dots, and dorsal with large blackish 

 blotch above and largely anterior. 



Length 28 mm. 



Type, No. 39,230, A. N. S. P. Madeira River above Falls of 

 Guajaramirim, approximately in Lat. S. 10° 47', Long. W. 65° 23', 

 Brazil. September, 1912. Edgar A. Smith. 



Only the type known. It is apparently related to Hijphessobrycon 

 minor Darbin, but differs at once in the absence of a dark humeral 

 blotch and the longer maxillary. 



(Named for Mr. John D. Haseman, who has explored much of 

 South America and contributed a number of papers to Brazilian 

 ichthyology.) 



Hyphessobrycon stigmatias sp. nov. Fig. 14. 



Head 3t; depth 3f ; D. in, 8; A. iii, 16; P. i, 12; V. i, 8; scales 

 31 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 2 more in latter; 9 

 scales transversely between dorsal and ventral origins; about 11 

 predorsal scales; head width If in its length; head depth Ij at 

 occiput; snout 4; eye 2^; maxillary 3yo; interorbital 2|; first 

 branched dorsal ray 1|; first branched anal ray If; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 2f ; pectoral If; ventral 1^. 



Body moderately long, well compressed, deepest at dorsal origin, 

 profiles similarly convex, and edges all convexly rounded. Caudal 

 peduncle well compressed, its least depth about 1| in its length. 




548 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



Head moderate, compressed, profiles similar, and flattened sides 

 slightly constricted below. Snout convex in profile and over surface, 

 its length about f its width. Eye large, high, rounded, its centre 

 about first f in head. Mouth broad, with short commissure, termi- 

 nal. Maxillary well inclined, free, and extends beyond front eye 

 edge, though not quite to front pupil edge. Lips firm, little 

 developed. Teeth strong, with broad bases, simply conic or tri- 

 cuspid and in latter case usually of larger size. Upper teeth biserial, 

 though series close and outer slightly irregular. Maxillary with 

 three cusps inside near base. Mandible with a series of mostly 

 tricuspid teeth, but little smaller posteriorly along sides of rami. 

 Inner buccal folds broad. Tongue depressed, rounded and free in 



Fig. 14.—Hyphessobryco)i stlginatiaa Fowler. (Type 



front. Mandible rather strong, rami not elevated inside mouth, 

 and closed jaws about equal. Nostrils together, posteriorly situated 

 in snout length, anterior simple pore and posterior crescentic. Inter- 

 orbital moderately convex. Suborbitals rather broad, and infra- 

 orbital nearly covers cheek, surfaces smooth. Hind preopercle edge 

 slightly inclined posteriorly. Opercle deep. Top of head or cranium 

 soft, with broad parietal fontanel, though still narrower within 

 frontal region. 



Gill-opening extends forward nearly opposite front pupil edge. 

 Rakers about 5+10?, slender, lanceolate, much shorter than 

 filaments and latter about 3 in eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted, 

 surface convex. Branchiostegals slender, subequal. 



Scales cycloid, well exposed in lengthwise series, moderately 

 large, and of nearly uniform size. A few scales on caudal base, 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



though none on other fins, and ventral axil with short, pointed scale. 

 No 1. 1. developed. 



Dorsal origin a little nearer snout tip than caudal base, first 

 branched ray longest, and depressed fin not quite reaching half way 

 to caudal base. Adipose fin rather large, its base placed over last 

 anal ray bases. Anal inserted a little nearer pectoral origin than 

 caudal base, below posterior dorsal rays, and first branched ray 

 longest, so that fin elevated in pointed lobe. Caudal well forked, 

 pointed lobes equal. Pectoral low, not quite reaching to ventral 

 origin, upper rays longest, and fin pointed. Ventral inserted well 

 before dorsal, or nearly midway between pectoral and anal origins, 

 fin reaching anal. Vent opens about midway in post ventral region. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, lower surface paler. 

 Scales on back all with dusky edges. Upper surface of head dusky, 

 sides and below paler. Muzzle, and opercle above, with dusky dots. 

 Iris slaty. Fins all dusted with dusky dots. At shoulder, behind 

 gill-opening, large cluster of dusky dots, though not forming a 

 defined humeral blotch. A dark vertebral line along sides after 

 humeral clouding extending to caudal base, along side of caudal 

 peduncle expanding broadly and becoming black. On caudal base 

 it narrows suddenly and extends out on median caudal ra3^s. Base 

 of each caudal lobe with pale or whitish area. 



Length 23 mm. 



Type, No. 39,231, A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River 

 near Porto Velho, Brazil. January-February, 1913. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 



Only the type known. It is likely related to Moenkhausia cotinho 

 Eigenmann, but that species is said to have 20 or 21 anal rays, and 

 a very large conspicuous vertically oval black spot on base of caudal, 

 bordered behind by milky-white. 



{lTtXfiaTca<,^^ branded person, with reference to the black caudal 

 blotch.) 



Hyphessobrycon agulha sp. nov. Fig. 15. "Agulha." 



Head 3f ; depth 31; D. iii, 9; A. iv, 19, i; P. i, 13; V. i, 7; 

 scales 32 in median lateral series to caudal base and 2 more on latter ; 

 1. 1. of 12 tubes anteriorly, extends back and down in gentle curve 

 little beyond front of dorsal; 6 scales above 1. 1. to dorsal origin; 

 3 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 9 predorsal scales to occipital 

 process; head width 1| in its length; head depth at occiput 1^; 

 mandible 1|; first branched anal ray Ij; least depth of caudal 




550 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct.,, 



peduncle 2f ; pectoral Ig; ventral If; snout 3f in head, measured 

 from upper jaw tip; eye 2f ; maxillary 2; interorbital 2|. 



Body moderately elongate, well compressed, deepest at dorsal 

 origin, profiles similar, predorsal slightly constricted, though not 

 keeled medianly, and other edges all convexly rounded. Caudal 

 peduncle well compressed, its least depth trifle less than its length. 



Head moderate, compressed, profiles similar, and flattened sides 

 but very slightly approximated below. Snout convex over surface 

 and in profile, short, its length about half its width. Eye large, 

 rounded, high, and hind pupil edge about midway in head length. 



Fig. 1,5. — Hyphessobrycon agulha Fowler. (Type.) 



Pupil large, circular. Eyelids free, not adipose-like. Mouth well 

 inclined, broad, commissure short. Maxillary long, slender, free, 

 well inclined, extends back about opposite front pupil edge. Lips 

 firm, moderate. Teeth mostly quindentate. Upper jaw with 8 

 teeth in each series, parallel and inner lower slightly larger. No 

 maxillary teeth. Mandible with 8 large quindentate teeth ante- 

 riorly, and along each ramus posteriorly row of small conic teeth 

 continued back, these all much shorter and contrasted with anterior 

 ones. Inner buccal folds broad. Tongue broad, depressed, rounded 

 and free in front. Mandible strong, slightly protrudes beyond 

 snout tip when closed, and rami not elevated inside mouth. Nostrils 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



together, close before eye, anterior simple pore and posterior cres- 

 centic. Interorbital broadly convex. Preorbital long, slender. 

 Infraorbital broad, covers cheek all but very narrow strip in lower 

 angle, with a few coarse striae. Hind preopercle edge straight and 

 slightly inclined posteriorly. Opercle narrow, deep, emarginate 

 along upper hind edge, and surface smooth. Occipital fontanel 

 well developed in frontal and parietal regions till within occipital 

 process, broad. 



Gill-opening extends forward nearly opposite front pupil edge. 

 Rakers about 6 + 12, slender, lanceolate, a little less than •filaments, 

 and latter about 3 in eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted in front, 

 its surface with slight groove, though posteriorly l^roader and convex. 

 Branchiostegals rather large, subequal. 



Scales large, well exposed in longitudinal series, of nearly uniform 

 size, and each one with few radiating striae. Row of few small 

 scales along bases of anterior anal rays. Caudal base with few 

 small scales. Free pointed axillary ventral scaly flap nearly 3 in 

 fin. L. 1. incomplete, slightly decurved. Tubes simple, only on 

 anterior portions of scale exposures. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and hind edge of 

 adipose fin, first branched ray longest, or little longer than head, 

 reaches If to caudal base. Adipose fin placed over last anal ray 

 bases, fin f in eye. Caudal well forked, pointed lobes equal, trifle 

 longer than head. Anal inserted below last dorsal ray bases or a 

 trifle nearer pectoral origin than caudal base, first branched ray 

 longest with anterior rays forming an elevated pointed lobe. Pec- 

 toral low, slender, pointed, upper rays longest and fin reaches slightly 

 beyond ventral origin. Latter slightly before dorsal origin, fin 

 pointed and extends slightly beyond front anal rays. ^>nt close 

 before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely dull or pale brownish. Scales on back 

 all broadly marked with dusk}- submarginal wide-angled streaks. 

 Each scale on predorsal, postdorsal and scales along base of dorsal, 

 with conspicuous rounded dusky or dark spot. Head brownish 

 above, also on lips. Iris slaty. Lower surface of head, and belly, 

 whitish. Along side, from head to caudal base broad area of brown- 

 ish dots, these larger and more sparse on cheek and side of abdomen. 

 Within this lateral area of dusky dots narrow brownish band extends 

 from shoulder straight to median cau lal base, where continued 

 out on middle rays of caudal as blackish streak, and streak not quite 

 wide as pupil diameter. No distinct caudal spot. Humeral region 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



with elliptical horizontal dusky or blackish blotch a little less in 

 length than eye. From lower edge a short vertical branch of dusky 

 given off from humeral streak. Fins pale, with very slight dusky 

 tinge distally, though all more or less whitish basally. 



Length 42 mm. 



Type, No. 39,232, A. N. S. P. Madeira River, about 200 miles 

 east of W. Long. 62° 20', Brazil. September, 1912. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 



Also Nos. 39,233 to 39,289, A. N. S. P., paratypes, same data. 



One example from the Madeira River above the Falls of Guajara- 

 mirim, approximately S. Lat. 10° 47', W. Long. 65° 23', Brazil. 

 September, 1912. 



Nine examples from Igarape de Candelaria, tributary of the 

 Madeira River, about S. Lat. 8° 45', W. Long. 63° 54', Brazil. Sep- 

 tember, 1912. 



Fifty-three examples from tributaries of the Madeira River near 

 Porto Velho, Brazil. January-February, 1913. 



All the specimens representing this species are smaller than the 

 type and were collected by Mr. Smith. Changes with age are 

 noticeable in color, small or young specimens showing an obscure 

 humeral blotch and usually no black on caudal. A narrow line of 

 dusky dots* extends along parallel with the anal base on lower side 

 of trunk. The species is related to Hyphessobrycon heUotti (Stein- 

 dachner),^ though differs in the absence of maxillary teeth and the 

 dark humeral blotch not surrounded by a bright ring. 



{Agulha, the native name.) 

 Creagrutus anary sp. nov. Fig. 16. "Anary." 



Head 3f; depth 3f ; D. iii, 8; A. m, 11, i; P. i, 13; V. i, 7; 

 scales 37 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 5 more on latter; 5 scales above 

 1. 1.; 3 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 4 scales below 1. 1. to anal 

 origin; 8 predorsal scales to hind end of occipital process; head 

 width If its length; head depth at occiput 1^; snout 3|; eye 2|; 

 maxillary 2|; interorbital 3; first branched dorsal ray 1|; first 

 branched anal ray 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; upper 

 caudal lobe 1; pectoral Ij; ventral 1|. 



Body moderately long, compressed, of robust appearance, deepest 

 at dorsal origin, back very slightly elevated, and edges all convexly 

 rounded, though slight constriction just before dorsal origin. Caudal 



» Denk. Ak. Wiss., Wien, XLYI, I, 1883, p. 34. Tabatinga. 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



553 



peduncle well compressed, its least depth about H in its length 

 measured from last anal ray base. 



Head moderate, robust, compressed, flattened sides not converg- 

 ing, and upper profile a little more convex than lower. Snout well 

 convex in profile and over surface, well protruded beyond mandible 

 and its length about | its width. Eye large, rounded, high, and 

 centre falls about first | in head. Pupil large, rounded. Eyelids 

 free, narrow, not adipose-like. Mouth inferiorly terminal, broad, 

 with short curved commissure. Maxillary strong, bent, slips below 

 preorbital all along its upper edge, extends well below and slightly 

 beyond front eye edge. Lips thick, fleshy, not free. Teeth rather 



Fig. IG. — Creagrutus aiiary Fowler. (Type.) 



large, tricuspid or quincuspid. Upper jaw with. 3 series of large 

 teeth, forming considerable dental area. Mandible with single 

 series of teeth, large, quincuspid, subequal. Maxillary with several 

 small denticles, simple, and appear as continuation of upper inner- 

 most teeth. Inner buccal folds broad. Tongue depressed, rounded 

 and free in front. Mandible obtuse, strong, and rami short and 

 low. Nostrils together close before eye, anterior simple and posterior 

 crescentic. Suborbitals broad, nearly cover cheek, only slight 

 naked strip below. Hind edge of preopercle straight, inclined 

 slightly posteriorly. Opercle deep, narrow, upper hind edge notched. 

 Parietal-frontal fontanel well developed, extends to occipital process, 

 and latter about \ to dorsal origin. 



Gill-opening extends forward opposite front pupil edge. Rakers 

 37 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



6 + 16, slender, lanceolate, much less than filaments, and latter 

 about f of eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted in front, broad 

 behind, and surface convex. Branchiostegals moderate, subequal. 



Scales moderate, well exposed in longitudinal series parallel with 

 1, 1., each with a few radiating strise, and of mostly uniform size. 

 Caudal covered with a number of small scales over greater basal 

 portion. Scales large along anterior base of dorsal and form sheath, 

 and similar ones on anal. Ventral with free pointed axillary scaly 

 flap, its length nearly | that of fin. L. 1. complete, slightly decurved 

 till about f in greatest body depth, and extends a little low along 

 side of caudal peduncle to median caudal base. Tubes simple, 

 moderately exposed anteriorly. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and hind edge of 

 adipose fin, first branched ray longest, and depressed fin reaches 

 2j to caudal base. Adipose fin placed over last anal rays basally, 

 or about last | in space between dorsal origin and caudal base, fin 

 about equals eye. Anal inserted close after dorsal base, first 

 branched ray longest, though with other anterior anal rays not 

 forming distinct lobe. Caudal well forked, lobes longer than head, 

 broad, pointed, equal, and rudimentary rays well developed. Pec- 

 toral low, rounded, upper rays longest and extend | to ventral origin. 

 Ventral inserted slightly behind dorsal origin, and extends back to 

 anal origin. Vent about last f in postventral space. 



Color in alcohol very pale brownish generally. Edges of scales 

 on back dotted with brownish, though no median dark streak. 

 Upper surface of head brownish, sides, muzzle, and lower surface 

 whitish. Iris slaty. Above third scale of 1. 1. vertical dusky humeral 

 blotch, its vertical diameter about equal to pupil. Evidently a 

 silvery lateral streak, narrow, and best defined posteriorly. A narrow 

 dark underlaid streak, made up of dusky dots, vertebral along side 

 of body, begins opposite tip of depressed pectoral and extends to 

 median caudal base, and most distinct in median part of its course. 

 Slight dusky spot at bases of median caudal rays, and lower lobe 

 sprinkled with minute dusky dots. Upper or apical portion of 

 dorsal sprinkled with dusky dots. Fins, otherwise than noted 

 above, pale or whitish. 



Length 42 mm. 



Type, No. 39,290, A. N. S. P. Madeira River, about 200 miles 

 east of Long. W. 62° 20', Brazil. September, 1912. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 



Also No. 39,291, A. N. S. P., paratype, same data. Head 3^; 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



depth 3|; D. ii, 8; A. iii, 11, i; scales 36 in 1. 1. to caudal base, 

 and 4 more on latter; 5 scales above 1. 1.; 3 scales below 1. I. to 

 ventral origin; 3 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; 9 scales before 

 dorsal to occipital process; snout 3f in head; eye 3; maxillary 2|; 

 interorbital 3; length 34 mm. 



It appears related to Creagndus affinis Steindachner,'' Creagrutus 

 magdaleiue Eigenmann/ and Creagrutus hrevipinnis Eigenmann,* 

 all of which, however, have no dark caudal spot. Creagrutus avary 

 has three teeth, rather enlarged, forming its posterior premaxillary 

 series. 



{Anary, the native name.) 

 Bryconamericus jacunda sp. nov. Fig. 17. "Jacunda." 



Head 3^; depth 3; D. ii, 8; A. iii, 23, i; P. i, 10; V. i, 8; scales 

 35 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 5 scales above 1. 1.; 

 4 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin, or to anal origin; 12 predorsal 

 scales; head width 2 in its length; head depth at occiput 1^; snout 

 4; eye 2f ; maxillary 2f ; interorbital 2^; first branched dorsal ray 

 lyV; first branched anal ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; 

 pectoral lyV; ventral 1|. 



Body elongate, moderately compressed, lower profile a little more 

 convex than upper, greatest depth at dorsal origin, and edges all 

 convexly rounded. Caudal peduncle well compressed, length about 

 f its least depth. 



Head moderately large, compressed, profiles convex with upper a 

 little more bulging, and flattened sides very slightly constricted 

 below. Snout convex over surface and in profile, short, and its 

 length half its width. Eye large, rounded, though deeper vertically 

 than horizontal width, midway in- head depth, and hind pupil edge 

 about midway in head leng-th. Pupil vertically ellipsoid. Eyelids 

 narrow, free, not adipose-like. Mouth small, terminal, broad, very 

 short in commissure. Lips thick, fleshy, firm. Maxillary slender, 

 oblique, extends back about opposite front eye edge, free distally 

 short extent, and upper edge largely slips below preorbital. Teeth 

 quincuspid, with median point to each largest. Upper teeth biserial, 

 outer in an irregular row of small ones, and inner row of 5 large, 

 broad ones. No maxillary teeth. Mandible with single series of 

 large teeth in front. Inner buccal folds broad. Tongue broad. 



6 Denk. Ak. Wiss., Wien, XLII, 1884, p. 27. Cauca, near Caceres, Colombia. 

 ^ Indiana Univ. Studies, March, 1913, p. 8. Girardot, Honda, Penas Blancas, 

 and Apulo, Colombia. 



8 L.c, p. 10. Piedra Moler, Paila, Cartago, Colombia. 




556 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



depressed, free and rounded in front. Mandible robust, convex, 

 strong, rami not elevated in mouth, and upper jaw moderately 

 protruded beyond when mouth closes. Nostrils together, large, 

 close before eye above, anterior simple pore and posterior crescent ic. 

 Interorbital broadly convex. Preorbital narrow. Infraorbital 

 broad, smooth, completely covers cheek. Hind preopercle edge 

 vertical. Opercle deep, smooth, hind edge above slightly emarginate. 

 Broad fontanel from between frontals and parietals to occipital 

 process, latter short and triangular. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite first | in eye. Rakers 

 about 5+9, slender, lanceolate, much less than filaments, and 



Fig. 17. — Bryconamericus jacimda Fowler. (Tj'pe.) 



latter about | of eye. Isthmus constricted, surface convex. Branchi- 

 ostegals large, subequal. 



Scales moderate, moderately imbricated, disposed in longitudinal 

 series parallel with 1. 1., those on middle of side little larger than 

 others. Caudal with greater portion basally covered with small 

 close-set scales. Anal with bSsal series of scales its whole extent, 

 though graduated smaller posteriorly. Ventral with free pointed 

 axillary scaly flap about I length of fin. L. 1. complete, decurved 

 till about f in greatest body depth, and extends a little low along 

 caudal peduncle side till midway at caudal base. Tubes simple, 

 and each one extends anteriorly on scale exposure about f its extent. 



Dorsal origin about midway between front eye edge and caudal 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



base, first branched ray longest, and fin extends back If to caudal 

 base. Adipose fin elongate, its base over last anal ray bases. Anal 

 well anterior, inserted little behind dorsal origin, anterior rays 

 elevated with first branched longest, though not forming distinct 

 lobe, rays being graduated down behind with straight edge. Caudal 

 longer than head, well eraarginated or forked, and pointed lobes 

 about equal. Pectoral long, pointed, low, upper rays longest, and 

 depressed fin extends back about f to anal origin. Ventral inserted 

 about last f in space between pectoral and anal origins, and extends 

 back a little beyond front of anal. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish generally. Back and sides sprinkled 

 with numerous dusky dots, these also extend over anal basally, and 

 over most of caudal. Area above 1. 1. to about seventh scale of its 

 course pale or not dusted with dark dots, except on third and fourth 

 scales a vertical streak equal to vertical eye-diameter extends upward 

 slightly inclined posteriorly, and this streak made up of dark larger 

 dots. Head brownish above, sides, muzzle, and below paler or 

 whitish. Iris slaty. Except as noted above, fins pale. Median 

 streak of dull brownish dots down back. Pale lateral vertebral line 

 of dark dots begins on dotted part of side and continues to caudal 

 base, where evidence of faded or pale dusky blotch medianly. 



Length 31 mm. 



Type, No. 39,292, A. N. S. P. IMadeira River, about 200 miles 

 east of W. Long. 62° 20'. Brazil. September. 1912. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 



Only the type known. Brijconamericus alburnus (Hensel) differs 

 in the smaller head (4f), though agrees in the absence of maxillary 

 teeth, scales, etc. 



(Jacunda, the native name.) 

 Bryconamericus smithi sp. nov. Fig. 18. 



Head 4; depth 2|; D. ii, 7; A. iii, 25, i; P. i, 10; V. i, 7; 37 

 scales in 1. 1. to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 6 scales above 

 1. 1.; 4 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 5 scales below 1. 1. to anal 

 origin; 14 predorsal scales; head width 1| its length; head depth 

 at occiput liV; snout 3h; eye 2f; maxillary 2; interorbital 2|; 

 first branched dorsal ray 1; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; first 

 branched anal ray 1|; pectoral 1|; ventral 1|. 



Body moderately long, of ovoid contour with lower profile a little 

 more convex anteriorly, greatest depth at dorsal origin and edges all 

 convexly rounded, except trenchant post ventral. Caudal peduncle 

 compressed, about long as deep. 




558 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



Head rather small, well compressed, profiles similarly and slightly 

 convex, and flattened head sides slightly constricted below. Snout 

 convex over surface and in profile, length about f its basal width. 

 Eye large, rounded, slightly elevated, centre about first f in head 

 length. Eyelid free, without adipose-like development. Pupil 

 rounded. Mouth broad, with short commissure. Maxillary largely 

 free, slender, well inclined, extends back slightly beyond front eye 

 edge, though not quite to that of pupil. Lips fleshy, not free. 

 Upper teeth biserial, outer row of small unevenly arranged teeth in 

 a wavy line and deeply imbedded, appearing as single cusps or 

 tricuspid, the outer cusps being quite small. Inner upper row of 



Bryconatnericus smithi Fowler. (Tj'pe.) 



t(.eth large, broadly triangular, quincuspid, 6 in number. No 

 maxillary teeth. Mandibular teeth uniserial, quincuspid, and 

 .suddenly stopping along front of rami, so that posterior teeth, if 

 present, very small. Mandible moderate, included so snout slightly 

 protrudes beyond closed jaws, convex, and rami not elevated inside 

 mouth. Inner buccal folds moderate. Tongue depressed, rounded 

 and free in front. Nostrils together close before upper front rim of 

 eye, anterior simple pore and posterior much larger and broadly 

 crescentic. Interorbital broadly convex. Suborbitals large, espe- 

 cially infraorbital, and completely 'covering cheek. Hind preopercle 

 ridge nearly vertical, entire. Opercle deep, smooth, its upper pos- 

 terior edge not emarginate. Occipital fontanel broad, extends 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



from frontals to occipital process, and latter siiort, narrowly tri- 

 angular. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite front edge of pupil. 

 Rakers about 7+10?, slender, lanceolate, much less than filaments, 

 and latter about | of eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted, surface 

 convex. Branchiostegals rather large, subequal. 



Scaler moderately small, disposed in longitudinal series parallel 

 with 1. 1., each well exposed, cycloid, and of mostly uniform size. 

 Along base of anal on trunk scales become smaller, and along base 

 of anal its entire length a series of scales, which larger anteriorly and 

 diminishing posteriorly. Caudal base scaled, and lobes of fin also 

 covered with small scales over greater portions. Free pointed 

 axillary scaly flap to ventral j length of fin. L. 1. complete, slightly 

 decurved till f in greatest body depth, extending a little low along 

 side of caudal peduncle 'till reaching caudal base medianly. Tubes 

 simple, extend over first half of scale at least. 



Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base, first 

 branched ray longest, with depressed fin extending half way to 

 caudal base. Adipose fin slender, about 1| in eye, its origin about 

 last y in space between dorsal origin and caudal base. Caudal well 

 forked, lobes pointed, similar, equal. Anal inserted well forward, 

 nearly midway between centre of eye and caudal base, first branched 

 ray longest and with anterior rays elevated slightly, though not 

 forming distinct lobe, and base long and straight. Pectoral low, 

 upper rays longest, pointed, and depressed fin extends back slightly 

 beyond ventral base. Ventral inserted well before dorsal, reaches 

 anal. Vent close before anal. 



Color pale brownish generally. Back and trunk above anal 

 finely dotted with, dull or pale dusky. Median pale lateral streak 

 from eye to caudal base, less than eye diameter in width. Shoulder 

 with large pale area, within which vertical, narrow, dusky streak 

 about equal to eye diameter. A narrow pale dusky vertebral lateral 

 streak posteriorly forms upper boundary of silvery lateral streak. 

 Fins all pale or grayish. No caudal blotch. Head brownish above, 

 silvered or whitish on sides and below. Iris silvery with dusky ver- 

 tical streak. Teeth pale. 

 Length 35 mm. 



Type, No. 39,293, A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River 

 near Porto Velho, Brazil. January-February, 1913. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 



Also, Nos. 39,294 to 39,298, A. N. S. P., paratypes, same data. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Head 3f to 3|; depth 3 to 3^; D. ii, 7 or ii, 8; A. iii, 24, i to iii, 

 27, i; scales 34 to 36 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 2 or 3 more on latter; 

 6 scales above 1. 1.; 5 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; 12 or 13 pre- 

 dorsal scales; snout 3| to 3f in head; eye 2^ to 2|; maxillary 2} to 

 24; interorbital 2f to 2f ; length 24 to 33 mm. 



Closely related to the preceding specie-, though apparently differs 

 in the smaller head and deeper body. 



(Named for Mr. Edgar A. Smith.) 



CHALCIN.E. 

 Chalcinus angulatus (Agassiz). 



Five from the Falls of Guajaramirim, Madeira River, approxi- 

 mately Lat. S. 10° 47', Long. W. 65° 23', Brazil. September, 1912. 



One young example from the Madeira River near Porto Velho, 

 Brazil. January-February, 1913. 



GASTEROPELECIN.E. . 

 Gasteropelecus securis Filippi. 



One from the Madeira River, about 200 miles east of W. Long. 

 63° 54', Brazil. September, 1912. 



Five from tributary of Madeira River near Porto Velho, Brazil. 

 January-February, 1913. 



These specimens all appear to be identical with Filippi's account.^ 

 They also agree with examples I have studied, from Pebas and the 

 Ambyiacu River, as Gasteropelecus stellatus Kner,'" and thus fall 

 within my subgenus Thoracocharax. - 



GNATHOCHARAX gen. nov. 

 Type Gnathocharax steindachneri sp. nov. 



Body elongately ovoid, profiles unlike anteriorly, upper straight 

 and lower convex. Preventral with median keel, over which scales 

 pass. Head rather upturned. Snout short, broad. Eye very 

 large, with free eyelids. Mouth terminal above. Maxillary very 

 oblique, elongate. Teeth uniserial in jaws, none on maxillary and 

 mandible with several canines. Mandible slightly project?. Inter- 

 orbital low. Gill-rakers lanceolate, 3+9, long. Scales large, 

 cycloid. Caudal and anal bases scaly. Lateral line incomplete, 

 only on few scales from shoulder. Dorsal inserted posteriorly, 

 moderate. Adipose fin placed over last anal rays. Anal long, 



^Rev. Mag. Zool, 1853, p. 165. Rio Napo. 

 ^^Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p.. 4.52. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



inserted little before dorsal. Caudal well forked. Pectorals large, 

 falcate, reach back well beyond dorsal base. Ventrals small. No 

 humeral blotch. Caudal with black blotch. 



Small fishes of the Amazon basin. They are remarkable for the 

 simple dentition, in this respect differing from the rest of the members 

 of this subfamily. They also suggest certain Characince, as Asiphon- 

 ichthys, though differ in the larger pectorals and conic teeth. Pos- 

 sibly they are more closely allied with Pseudocorynopoma of the 

 present subfamily, but differ in the incomplete lateral line, as well 

 as the dentition. 



(/Vacyoc, jaw; Xafia':^ Cliarax; with reference to the long maxillary.) 

 Gnathocharax steindachneri sp. nov. Fig. 19. 



Head 3|; depth 3i; D. ii, 6, i; A. iii, 31, i; P. i, 15; V. i, 7; 

 scales 33 in median lateral series to caudal base and 2 more on latter ; 

 10 scales transversely between dorsal origin and that of anal; 14 

 predorsal scales; head width 1| in its length; head depth at occiput 

 1^-; mandible 1^; first branched dorsal ray 1^; first branched anal 

 ray \\; least depth of caudal peduncle 3^; ventral 2; snout 4| 

 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2\; maxillary 1^; inter- 

 orbital 3|. 



Body elongate, greatly compressed, deepest at dorsal origin, upper 

 predorsal profile nearly straight and little inclined, and lower anterior 

 profile well curved convexly. Upper edges convex, preventral 

 largely convex with slight median keel and postventral constricted. 

 Caudal peduncle well compressed, about long as deep. 



Head moderate, well compressed, upper profile straight and little 

 inclined, lower profile well inclined convexly, and rather convex 

 sides slope evenly above and below. Snout short, near/y straight 

 in profile, convex over surface, and length about half its width. Eye 

 large, rounded, little elevated, and centre slightly anterior to middle 

 in head length. Pupil moderatelj^ large, rounded. Eyelids free, 

 not adipose-like. Mouth large, superiorly terminal. Maxillary very 

 long, slender, slips below preorbital edge most of its length, extends 

 down below eye till opposite last | in eye diameter, and. its greatest 

 expan'^ion about 5 in eye. Lips thin, firm, little developed. Teeth 

 uniserial in jaws, conic, somewhat irregular, sharply pointed, and 

 rather short. Mandible with 3 pairs of wide-set canines anteriorly. 

 No maxillary or palatine teeth. Inner buccal folds moderate. 

 Tongue rather small, depressed, a little elongate, nearly truncate, 

 and free in front. Mandible slightly protrudes when closing, strong, 

 rather shallow with convex surface and rami not elevated inside 




562 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



mouth. Nostrils together, large, close before eye, anterior simple 

 pore and posterior broadly crescentic. Interorbital broadly convex. 

 Preorbital narrow. Infraorbital broad, smooth, large, completely 

 €overs cheek. Hind edge of premaxillary entire, well inclined for- 

 ward. Opercle smooth, rather broad, and hind edge scarcely emar- 

 ginate. Top of head with large fontanel, begins on interorbital 

 nearly opposite front edge of nostril and extends back to occipital 

 process. Latter short and triangular. 



Gill-opening extends forward opposite front pupil edge. Rakers 

 3+9, lanceolate, slender, nearly twice length of filaments or about 



Fig. 19. — Gnathocharax steindachneri Fowler. (Type.) 



\ of eye diameter. Isthmus narrowly constricted, surface convex. 

 Branchiostegals rather short, subeciual. 



Scales rather large, cycloid, well exposed in lengthwise series, 

 those on predorsal rather oblique and somewhat more imbricated, 

 and all of more or less uniform size. Caudal base scaly. Row of 

 small scales along base of anal anteriorly. No axillary ventral scaly 

 flap. L. 1. incomplete, comprises six simple tubes or series of scales 

 from shoulder, each tube only extending over first half of scale 

 exposure. 



Dorsal origin about opposite eye centre and caudal base, first 

 branched ray longest, and depressed fin extends slightly over half 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



way to caudal base. Adipose fin equals about f eye diameter, 

 inserted near last fourth in space between hind pupil edge and 

 caudal base. Anal inserted slightly before dorsal origin, first 

 branched ray longest, together with anterior rays, which elevated, 

 forms pointed lobe. Caudal a little longer than head, well forked, 

 and lobes pointed, upper slightly longer. Pectoral enlarged, about 

 equals length of head and an eye diameter, moderately low in its 

 insertion, upper rays longest. Ventral small, inserted about midway 

 between mandible tip and origin of adipose fin. ^>nt close before 

 anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, paler on under surface. 

 Head brownish above, whitish below. Muzzle brownish, though 

 only including upper half of mandible. Suborbitals with rather 

 large, wide-set brownish dots. Iris slaty. Opercles and flanks 

 dusted with brownish, and behind dusky narrow lateral vertebral 

 blackish line to caudal base, which latter entirely blackish, though 

 area included less than eye. Median streak down back dusky, also 

 edges of scales on back sprinkled with minute dusky dots. Along 

 base of anal and close above on trunk, though nearly parallel, line of 

 dusky dots. Fins all pale, sprinkled with dusky dots on outer 

 portions. Adipose fin pale. 



Length 33 mm. 



Type, No. 39,309, A. N. S. P. Igarape de Candelaria, tributary of 

 the Madeira River, and approximately two miles distant, in Lat. S. 

 8° 45' W., Long. 63° 54', Brazil. September, 1912. Edgar A. Smith. 



No. 39,310, A. N. S. P., paratype Madeira River about 200 miles 

 east of W. Long. 62° 20', Brazil. September, 1912. Edgar A. Smith. 



No. 39,311, A. N. S. P., paratype. Tributary of the Madeira 

 River near Porto Velho, Brazil. January-February, 1913. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 



(Named for Dr. Franz Steindachner.) 



CHARACIN^. 

 TYTTOCHARAX gen. nov. 

 Type Tyltocharax madeirce sp. nov. 



Body oblong, well compressed. Head moderate. Snout short. 

 Eye large, without adipose eyelids. Mouth broad, short. Maxillary 

 free, oblique, with few simple conic teeth. Teeth in jaws conic, in 

 bands, and some externally similar ones on lips. Few symphyseal 

 teeth canine-like. Interorbital broad. Occipital process short and 

 triangular. Gill-membranes free from isthmus. Rakers minute. 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Scales large, cycloid, well exposed, extend on caudal base and form 

 anal sheath basally. No 1. 1. Dorsal fin inserted behind middle 

 in body length. Adipose fin moderate. Caudal moderately forked, 

 lobes equal. Anal inserted before dorsal origin, with moderate 

 basis. Pectoral long, pointed, passes ventral base. Ventral not 

 reaching anal. Dark lateral streak. Shoulder and caudal each 

 with dark blotch. 



Minute fishes of the Madeira River basin. They show affinity 

 with certain of the Tetragonopterinx in the large scales, but the 

 conical teeth and external tooth-like processes are more features of 

 the present subfamily. One species. 



('/'utOo?^ tiny; .A'«/>«l, Charax.) 

 Tyttooharax madeirse sp. nov. Fig. 20. 



Head 3|; depth 3; D. ii, 7; A. ii, 16; P. i, 9; V. i, 7; scale? 30 

 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 2 more on latter; 10 

 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins; 10 predorsal 

 scales; head width 1| in its length; head depth at occiput 1|; snout 

 4; eye 2|; maxillary 3; interorbital 2f ; first branched dorsal ray 

 1^; first branched anal ray 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; 

 lower caudal lobe 1; pectoral 1^; ventral If. 



Body moderately long, well compressed, lower profile more convex 

 anteriorly than upper, postventral trenchant, and other edges con- 

 vexly rounded. Caudal peduncle compressed, about long as deep. 



Head moderate, compressed, lower profile more convex and 

 inclined than upper, and its flattened sides slightly constricted below. 

 Snout short, convex over surface and in profile, length abqut half 

 its width. Eye large, rounded, rather high, and hind edge of pupil 

 about midway in head length. Pupil rounded, moderate. Eyelids 

 free, not adipose-like. Mouth broad, short and inclined in commis- 

 sure. Lips firmly fleshy. Maxillary well inclined, slender, free, 

 extends down opposite lower eye margin and slightly beyond anterior 

 eye margin, though not nearly to front pupil edge. Teeth all conic, 

 simple, moderately large, in bands in jaws, and outer mostly with 

 appearance as if imbedded in lips. Some of teeth at symphyseal 

 region slightly recurved and enlarged a little, appearing somewhat 

 canine-like. On lips a number of denticles or tooth-like structures 

 protruded through the integument. Maxillary with a few irregular 

 small and inconspicuous teeth along upper edge. Apparently no 

 other teeth. Buccal fold moderate inside mouth. Tongue de- 

 pressed, rounded and free in front. Mandible small, strong, shallow 

 low rami not elevated inside mouth, and when closed very slightly 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



565 



protrude beyond snout tip. Nostrils together, large, anterior 

 simple pore, posterior larger, crescentic. Interorbital broadly 

 convex. Infraorbital broad, covers cheek. Hind preopercle edge 

 nearly vertical. Opercle smooth, deep, hind edge rounded. Fon- 

 tanel broad, extends from frontals to occipital process. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite front pupil edge. 

 Rakers a few minute points. Filaments about | of eye. Isthmus 

 moderately constricted, its surface convex. Branchiostegals mod- 

 crate, subequal. 



Scales large, well exposed in lengthwi«!e series, cj'cloid, and of 

 mostly uniform size, along base of anal extending out without 



Fig. 20. — Tijltocharaz madeirw Fowler. (Type.) 



<liminution in size or augmented numbers to form basal sheath for 

 fin. Caudal base scaly. L. 1. not developed. 



Dorsal origin about midway between hind edge of eye and caudal 

 base, first branched ray longest and depressed fin extends back 1| 

 to caudal base. Adipose fin small, inserted about last f in space 

 between dorsal origin and caudal base. Caudal moderate, well 

 forked, pointed and rather broad lobes subequal. Anal inserted 

 well before dorsal or nearly midway between mandible tip and 

 caudal base, first branched ray longest, and with anterior rays 

 longer than others, though not forming elevated lobe, lower edge of 

 fin being nearly straight. Pectoral low, pointed, upper rays longest, 

 extends back about first third in length of depressed ventral. Origin 

 of ventral nearer anal origin than that of pectoral, and depressed fin 

 extending back to vent, which close before anal. 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.^ 



Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, paler below. Head 

 dusky above, cheek and opercle dusted with dark dots, and lower 

 surface pale or whitish. Iris slaty. Lips dusky, also dusky blotch 

 on each side of mandible in front. Median dusky streak down back. 

 Dusky humeral blotch less than pupil in size. Lateral vertebral 

 blackish streak, becoming more intense behind till it merges with 

 dusky blotch at caudal base, latter reflected out on rays of caudal 

 basally so that it appears but little smaller than eye. Fins all pale. 



Length 18 mm. 



Type, No. 39,305, A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Rio Madeira 

 near Porto Velho, Brazil. January-February, 1913. Edgar A. Smith. 



No. 39,306, A. N. S. P., paratype, same data. 



Four examples from Igarape de Candelaria, a tributary of the 

 Madeira River, though at a point two miles distant, in Lat. S. 8° 45', 

 Long. W. 63° 54', Brazil. September, 1912. Edgar A. Smith. 



Two examples from the Madeira River, about 200 miles east of 

 Long. W. 62° 20', Brazil. September, 1912. 



These specimens are all small and agree with the type, so far as^ 

 I can compare them. 



(Named for the Madeira River.) 



Charax sardina sp. nov. "Sardinha." Fig. 21. 



Head 3i; depth 3f ; D. ii, 9; A. iv, 31, i; P. i, 14; V. i, 7; scales 

 70 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 5 more on latter; about 12 scales between 

 dorsal origin and 1. 1.; 10 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 12 scales 

 below 1. 1. to anal origin; about 22? predorsal scales; head width 2f 

 in its length; head depth at occiput If ; snout 3j; eye3f; maxillary 

 If; interorbital 3f, first branched dorsal ray 1|; first branched anal 

 ray 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 3^; upper caudal lobe 1|; 

 pectoral 1|; ventral If. 



Body elongate, compressed, slenderly ovoid in contour, deepest 

 at dorsal origin, profiles similar, postventral a little trenchant, and 

 other edges convex. Caudal peduncle compressed, about long as 

 deep. 



Head triangular in profile, attenuated, lower profile little more 

 convex, compressed, and flattened sides slightly constricted below. 

 Snout conic, somewhat depressed above and a little shorter than 

 broad. Eye rounded, well elevated, and its centre near first f in 

 head. Pupil moderate, rounded. Eyelids free, not adipose-like. 

 Mouth large, well inclined, opens in front level with middle of eye, 

 completely closing. Lips thin, firm, little developed. Maxillary 

 greatly inclined, largely free and expanding below until about 2| 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



567 



in eye, also its lower hind end reaches slightly beyond hind edge of 

 eye. Teeth along jaw edges fine, conic, in narrow band or irregularly 

 biserial, uniform, sharply pointed. Teeth of upper jaw extend along 

 maxillary edge its entire length, though mostly uniserial. Upper 

 jaw with single large conic canine in front medianly and 3 subequally 

 smaller ones on each side anteriorly, all placed just inside band of 

 small teeth. Mandible with 3 pairs of canines, symphyseal pair 

 wide-set and largest. No palatine teeth. Inner buccal folds broad. 

 Tongue fleshy, slenderly pointed, and free. Mandiljle rather broad, 

 shallow, and rami low inside mouth, snout slightly protruding when 

 jaws close. Interorbital broadly convex. Preorbital slender. Infra- 



r?jrr^0^' 



Fig. 21. — CJinrnx mnJina Fowler. (Type.) 



orbital broad, its surface slightly papillose and covers about half 

 of cheek, which latter with naked skin also slightly asperous. Pre- 

 opercle without spine, its hind edge entire and sloping slightly back, 

 and lower edge with 7 minute denticles. Opercle deep, nearly smooth, 

 and its upper hind edge a little emarginate. Well developed frontal 

 and parietal fontanel, extends from internasal region back to occipital 

 process, latter narrowly triangular and short. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite middle of eye. 

 Rakers 3+4, strong, lanceolate, about equal filaments, and latter 

 a little less than half of eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted, convex 

 over surface. Branchiostegals moderate, subequal. 



Scales all small, each one roughened with about six minute conic 

 thorns or denticles. Along predorsal edge of body scales appear a 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



little smaller or more crowded. On sides of body scales disposed in 

 longitudinal series parallel with 1. 1. Caudal base scaly. A few 

 small scales along anal base in front. Ventral with short, free, pointed 

 axillary scaly flap. L. 1. complete, nearly straight, and median 

 along side of body. Tubes simple, extend well over scale exposures 

 or to their hind edges. 



Dorsal origin a little nearer snout tip than caudal base, first 

 branched ray longest and reaches back If to caudal base. Adipose 

 fin moderate, about equals eye in length, and its origin near last 

 third in space between dorsal origin and caudal base. Caudal well 

 forked, pointed lobes equal. Anal inserted a little behind dorsal 

 origin, first branched ray longest where it forms slight lobe with 

 anterior rays. Pectoral low, upper rays longest, and extends back 

 slightly beyond origin of ventral. Ventral inserted a little nearer 

 pectoral origin than anal, and fin pointed, extending back slightly 

 beyond anal origin. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, scarcely paler below. 

 Back and sides sprinkled with minute pale dusky dots, becoming 

 larger and less closer on caudal base, though no distinct caudal or 

 shoulder spots formed. Head brownish above, paler below. Iris 

 slaty Fins all pale, though origin of adipose fin with dusky dots 

 basally and in front. 



Length 40 mm. 



Type, No. 39,307, A. N. S. P. Madeira River, about 200 miles 

 east of W. Long. 60° 20', Brazil. September, 1912. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 



Only the type known. It is interesting as forming, with the 

 following species, a transition, towards Cyrtocharax, which embraces 

 species with very small scales, 100 or more in the 1. 1. 



{Sardinha, the native name.) 



Charax goeldii sp. nov. Fig. 22. 



Head 2|; depth 2|; D. ii, 9; A. iv, 41, i; P. i, 15; V. i, 7; scales 

 81 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 6 more on latter; about 18 scales above 

 1. 1.; 18 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 19 scales below 1. 1. to anal 

 origin; about 31 predorsal scales to occipital process; head width 

 2| in its length; head depth at occiput If; snout 3|; eye 3|; max- 

 illary 1|; interorbital 4; first branched dorsal ray 1^; first branched 

 anal ray 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 3|; lower caudal lobe 

 Ij; pectoral If; ventral 2|. 



Body well compressed, elongate, rather slenderly ovoid in contour, 

 and lower profile a little more evenly convex than upper, greatest 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



569 



depth at dorsal origin. Postventral constricted, though not trench- 

 ant, and predorsal with slight median ridge. Other edges of body- 

 convex. Caudal peduncle well compressed, least depth about 

 equals its length. 



Head well compressed, rather deep, triangular in profile with 

 lower profile slightly more inclined, upper profile a little concave, 

 and flattened head sides a little approximated below. Snout with 

 upper profile nearl.y straight, surface convex, and its length | its 

 width. Eye rounded, a little ellipsoid, slightly elevated, and its 

 centre about first f in head. Pupil large, rounded. Eyelids free, 



Fig. 22. — Charax goeldii Fowler. (Type.) 



not adipose-like. Mouth large, well inclined, opens in front about 

 level with middle of eye, completely closes. Lips thin, firm, little 

 developed. Maxillary large, well inclined, free most of its distal 

 length which extends down below and a little behind posterior eye 

 edge, and distal expansion about If in eye. Teeth in bands in jaws, 

 largely irregularly biserial, conic, sharp-pointed, close-set and mostly 

 uniform. Maxillary with its entire lower edge furnished Avith 

 continuation of teeth of upper jaw in similar disposition. Sides of 

 mandible with teeth mostly uniserial and inconspicuous. Upper 

 jaw with 2 pairs of canines and mandible with 3 pairs, of*which 

 symphyseal pair wide-set. Each jaw also with several smaller 

 additional canines. No palatine teeth. Tongue rather small, 

 depressed, rather spatulate, rounded and free in front. Inner 

 38 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



buccal folds broad. Mandible large, when closed included within 

 upper jaw, rather shallow and rami not elevated inside mouth. 

 Nostrils large, together, close before eye, anterior simple pore and 

 posterior larger, crescentic. Interorbital broadly convex. Pre- 

 orbital narrow. Infraorbital broad, its width extends over f of 

 cheek, surface smooth or with but few papillae. Preopercle with 

 ridge and hind edge smooth, latter sloping slightly posteriorly. 

 Opercle deep, with few papillae, and hind edge slightly emarginate 

 above. Head with well-developed fontanel above extending from 

 between frontals medianly to occipital process. Latter short and 

 slenderly triangular. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite first | in eye. Rakers 

 IV, 3+6, II, slender, lanceolate, rather asperous, about | of eye 

 diameter and about twice length of filaments. Isthmus slender and 

 constricted, rather narrow and elongate, surface smooth. Branchi- 

 ostegals slender, rather long. 



Scales very small, well exposed in longitudinal series mostly 

 parallel with 1. I., each roughened with six or more minute prickles 

 or thorn-like denticles. Along predorsal and on caudal base scales 

 crowded or smaller. Greater portion of anal base anteriorly with a 

 series of scales, becoming inconspicuous posteriorly. Ventral axil 

 with short, free, pointed, scaly flap. L. 1. complete, straight, and 

 nearly median along sides to caudal base medianly. Tubes simple, 

 each well exposed or extend to hind edge of scale. 



Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base, first 

 branched ray longest, and depressed fin extends If to caudal base. 

 Adipose fin inserted near last third in space between snout tip and 

 caudal base. Anal inserted a little behind dorsal origin, or about 

 midway between front pupil edge and caudal base, first branched 

 ray longest and with anterior rays forming slight elevated lobe. 

 Caudal well forked, lobes pointed and subequal. Pectoral low, 

 pointed, upper rays longest and extends | to anal. Ventral inserted 

 trifle nearer anal origin than that of pectoral, and extends back 

 slightly beyond front of anal. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, sides and lower surface 

 paler. Head above and back above shaded with close-set pale 

 dusky dots, and on trunk above anal base and at caudal other 

 similar dots, at former region wide-set and at latter region comprise 

 an area nearly large as eye. Above 1. 1. close behind head dusky 

 spot about size of pupil. Lower surface of head whitish. Iris slaty. 

 Fins all grayish, lower ones more whitish. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



Length 56 mm. 



Type, No. 39,308, A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River 

 near Porto Velho, Brazil. January-February, 1913. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 



Only the type known. It differs from Charax sardina in the entire 

 lower preopercular edge and presence of a humeral and caudal dark 

 spot. 



(Named for Dr. Emilio A. Goeldi, Director of the Museo Paraense 

 and author of numerous works on the natural history of Brazil.) 



LORIOARIIDiB. 

 PLECOSTOMIX.E. 

 Plecostomus madeirae sp. nov. Fig. 23. 



Head, measured to hind edge of occipital process, 3f ; depth 5|; 

 D. I, 7; A. I, 4; P. i, 6; V. i, 5; lateral scutes from pectoral axilla 

 28 to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 5 scutes between dorsal 

 base and that of anal; 3 predorsal scutes; head width equals its 

 length, when measured from occipital process medianly behind; 

 head depth at occiput If; snout If; eye 5|; mouth width 4f; 

 mandibular ramus 6; interorbital 2f ; dorsal spine 1^; anal spine 

 2j; adipose fin 2f; lower caudal lobe 1; pectoral spine 1; ventral 

 spine If. 



Body elongate, well depressed, deepest at dorsal origin and tapering 

 back to moderate, compressed caudal peduncle, which has least 

 depth about equal to its length. 



Head large, well depressed, lower surface flattened with sides 

 sloping up for about ^ greatest width of head, leaving wide and 

 slightly convex occipital region. Snout broad, slopes down evenly 

 and slightly convex all around, and its length f its width opposite 

 front edges of eyes. Eye slightly ellipsoid, well elevated, centre 

 falling about * in head length as measured to occipital process. 

 Pupil small, vertically ellipsoid. Mouth moderately wide, anterior 

 below. Buccal disk deeply ellipsoid, its transverse diameter about 

 equals snout length, its posterior edge finely and rather evenly 

 notched its entire extent, and its front edge with a row of fleshy 

 papillae. Inside of jaws and surface of lower lip outside with large 

 and rather conspicuous papilla?, on latter those median best developed- 

 Upper jaw with one large median conspicuous fleshy papilla inside 

 teeth. Teeth slender, uniserial, long, bent over at ends, bifid, 20 

 in upper jaw and 30 in lower, one of bifurcations always shorter and 

 smaller than other. Inner buccal folds broad. Tongue fleshy, 




572 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



broad. Each corner laterally of buccal disk ends in slender -barbel 

 about equal to eye in length. Nostrils large, together, dividing 

 frenum falls about last third in snout, socket a little less than that of 

 snout and both falling within confines of interorbital space. Anterior 

 nostril simple pore with cutaneous flap behind forming valve com- 

 pletely covering slightly larger posterior nostril. Interorbital 

 broadly and slightly concave, thus supraorbital ridges slightly 



Fig. 23. — Plecostomus madeirce Fowler. (Type.) 



elevated. Very slight median occipital ridge, though hind edge of 

 latter broadly triangular. Opercle large, extremely porous. 



Gill-opening small, lateral, very oblique, and extends forward 

 only opposite last fourth of eye. Isthmus very broad, its width 

 trifle less than combined snout and eye lengths. 



Body everywhere minutely spinulose. Scutes scarcely carinate 

 on back, excepting uppermost series extending along each side of 

 dorsal base to adipose fin. Fourth or inferior lateral row of scutes 

 become well carinate below adipose fin. Nine scutes between 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



dorsal and adipose fin. Occipital process bordered by median scute 

 behind and two others on each side. Edge of gill-opening bordered 

 with slightly enlarged spinules. Lower surface of head and abdomen 

 covered with small granular scales, all densely and minutely spinu- 

 lose. Fin spines all spinulose, those on outer and inner edges of 

 pectoral both larger and forming rather regular rows, former en- 

 larged distally. Outer surfaces of fin rays minutely spinulose. 

 L. I. evident as 8 simple small pores extending back from opercle. 



Dorsal origin a little nearer snout tip than adipose fin origin, and 

 depressed spine extends back about half way in length of last de- 

 pressed ray. Adipose fin strong spine, If to caudal base, inserted 

 near last third in space between dorsal origin and caudal base. Anal 

 inserted well behind dorsal base or about midway between dorsal 

 origin and caudal base, weak spine nearly long as subequal rays, and 

 depressed fin extends about half way to caudal base. Caudal 

 moderate, well emarginate behind, and lower lobe slightly longer. 

 Pectoral spine large, depressed, reaches back slightly beyond ventral 

 origin, rays slender. Ventral inserted just behind first dorsal ray 

 base, spine moderate and tapering to flexible point which extends 

 back opposite anal origin. Vent at last | in space between ventral 

 origin and that of anal. 



Color in alcohol brown above, lower surface paler or more whitish , 

 faded creamy. Iris slaty, pupil darker, and light spot below. Head 

 above entirely dotted with deep brown, dots close-set and numerous. 

 Back and costal region above marked with rounded deep brown 

 spots, all larger than on head, several on each of anterior scutes, 

 though only one to a scute on body posteriorly. Dorsal fin with 

 4 to 6 small, rounded, blackish spots on each ray, these well contrasted 

 or very distinct, those on spine less so. Caudal with about 8 rows of 

 dusky spots on rays. Pectoral and ventral spotted obscurely with 

 brownish. Anal whitish. Posterior sides of body from above 

 ventral origin to lower caudal lobe immaculate and whitish. 



Length 105 mm. 



Type, No. 39,312, A. N. S. P. Madeira River, about 200 miles 

 east of W. Long. 63° 54', Brazil. September, 1912. Edgar A. Smith. 



Only the type known. It appears to be most closely related to 

 Plecostomus cordovce Gtinther," differing somewhat in the coloration, 

 as all the spots on the fins are on the fin rays in the present species. 



11 Anw. Mag. Nat. Hist., London, (5) VI, 1880, p. 11. Cordova, Argentina. ' 



Regan, Trans. Zool. Soc, London, XVII, 1904, p. 212, PI. 9, fig. 3. 



Cordova. 




574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



P. cordovcE has but a single scute bordering the supraoccipital on each 

 side behind, while the present species has two. P. cordovce has the 

 mandibular ramus U in the interorbital, while the present form 

 shows it 2|. 



(Named for the Madeira River.) 



LORICARIIN^. 

 Farlowella smithi sp. nov. Fig. 24. 



Head, measured to hind edge of gill-opening, 4^; depth about 

 3| in head; D. i, 6; A. i, 5; P. i, 6; V. i, 5; scutes 34 in lateral 

 series medianly from opercle to caudal base, and one more on latter; 

 3 scutes between dorsal and anal origins; 7 predorsal scutes to 

 supraoccipital; head width 3| in its length; head depth at occiput 

 4|; snout 1|; interorbital 4|; dorsal spine If; anal spine If; 

 pectoral spine 2|; ventral spine 3|. 



Body slenderly elongate, greatly depressed, greatest depth at occi- 

 put and that at dorsal and ventral origins slightly less. Caudal 

 peduncle extremely elongate, depressed. 



Head, moderately long, depressed, as seen from above rapidly 

 tapering into elongate and slender rostrum. Snout depressed, its 

 basal width 2f in its length. Eye small, rounded, slightly ellipsoid, 

 high, well posterior in head, and 2| in interorbital. Mouth moder- 

 ately broad, placed about last third in head, width of disk about 

 equals interorbital. Disk of mouth rounded, edge finely and minutely 

 fringed all around. Surface of lower lip finely papillose. Within 

 upper jaw medianly large, fleshy papilla. Teeth slender, bent over 

 at ends, bifid, about 50 in upper jaw and 40 in lower. Upper buccal 

 fold inside mouth broad. Mandibular ramus about 2f in inter- 

 orbital. Nostrils together, anterior with elevated cutaneous rim 

 and about half conceals equal-sized posterior, placed just before 

 eyes with internasal space about half that of interorbital. Inter- 

 orbital wide, very slightly convex. Opercle about twice eye diameter, 

 surface obsoletely rugose. 



Gill-opening small, very oblique, extends forward about opposite 

 middle of eye. Isthmus broad, depressed, width about equals that 

 of mouth disk. 



Scutes all minutely spinulose. Down back medianly, from 

 occipital to plate just before dorsal origin which entire, narrow 

 non-spinulose strip. After dorsal this narrow naked strip continued 

 to caudal, also similar one on lower surface of caudal peduncle from 

 behind anal to origin of lower caudal lobe. Costal plates form 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



obsolete lengthwise ridges becoming confluent at their fusion below 

 dorsal, and resulting single lateral keel extends along each side to 

 caudal. Lower edges of head and edges of rostrum with elongated 

 clusters of spinules, all rather distinct and larger than elsewhere. 

 Scutes 22 behind dorsal. Belly with single median series of plates 

 between lateral series. Between pectoral bases 4 scutes. L. 1, 

 developed only as series of about 14 pores in sutures, one to each, of 

 costal plates. 



Dorsal inserted nearer snout tip than caudal base by length of 

 snout, spine slender, minutely spinulose, longest of radii. Anal 



Fig. 24. — Farloioella smithi Fowler. (Type.) 



inserted slightly behind dorsal origin, otherwise similar to dorsal. 

 Caudal moderate, deeply emarginate, and uppermost and lower- 

 most ray each enlarged and produced into slender filaments but 

 little less than length of trunk. Pectoral with flexible, slender, 

 minutely spinulose spine, longer than other radii, and not quite 

 reaching ventral origin. Ventral inserted about midway between 

 pectoral and anal origins, spine moderately robust and minutely 

 spinulose, longer than other rays and reaches f to anal origin. Vent 

 placed midway between ventral and anal origins. 



Color in alcohol pale gray-brown generally, abdomen, belly and 

 lower surface of head more or less whitish. Rostrum brownish above 

 and below. Iris slaty. Along side of head narrow obscure brownish 

 streak extends back from side of rostrum to nasal cavity and another 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oc|t.,> 



% 



similar one forks out below eye to opercle. Fins all largely pale. 

 or whitish. Caudal whitish, filaments grayish, and along upper, 

 concurrently blackish streak. Along side of caudal peduncle at 

 junction of each scute small, rounded, whitish spot. 



Length to caudal base 100 mm., to end of caudal filaments 173 mm. 



Type, No. 39,313, A. N. S. P. Madeira River, about 200 miles 

 east of W. Long. 62° 20', Brazil. 1912. Edgar A. Smith. 



Also No. 39,314, A. N. S. P., paratype. Tributary of the Madeira 

 River near Porto Velho, Brazil. January-February, 1913. Edgar 

 A. Smith. This specimen is quite small, though is apparently the 

 young. 



Only the above examples known. The species is related to 

 Farlowella gladuis (Boulenger),^^ Farlowella oxyrhynchus (Kner),^' 

 and Farlowella natter eri Steindachner.^* From the first two it differs 

 in the larger eye and in the shorter pectoral and presence of four 

 scutes between the pectoral origins. 



(Named for Mr. Edgar A. Smith.) 



OIOHLID^. 

 .Equidens madeirae sp. nov. Fig. 25. 



Head 3yV; depth 2§; D. xvi, 9, i; A. in, 8; P. i, 14; V. i, 5; 

 scales 18 in upper branch of 1. 1.; 4 scales between spinous dorsal 

 origin and 1. 1.; 2 scales between rayed dorsal origin and 1. 1.; 6 

 scales obliquely back from anal origin to beginning of lower branch 

 of 1. 1.; 9 predorsal scales; head width 1| in its length; head depth 

 at occiput 1; snout 3yo; eye 3|; maxillary 4|; interorbital 3; 

 mandible 2f ; sixth dorsal spine 2; sixteenth dorsal spine 2\; fifth 

 dorsal ray If; third anal spine 2|; fourth ray If; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 2|; caudal 1; pectoral lyV; ventral 1|. 



Body rather ovoid in contour, well compressed, back well elevated 

 with upper profile more convex than lower profile, and greatest 

 depth about opposite tip of depressed ventral spine tip. Body edges 

 all rounded convexly, except very obsolete median predorsal keel. 

 Caudal peduncle well compressed, about long as deep. 



Head moderate, well compressed, upper profile more inclined than 

 lower, very slightly concave before eye above, and lower profile 

 little inclined. Sides of head slightly convex, and sloping off in 



^"^ Acestra gladius Boulenger, Trans. Zool. Soc, London, XIV, 1897, p. 425, 

 PI. 41, fig. 2. Rio Jurua. 



^^ Acestra oxyrhynchus Kner, Denk. Ak. Wiss., Wien, VI, 1853, p. 95, PI. 8, 

 fig. 2. 



1* Annul. Naturh. Hofmus., Wien, 1910, p. 403. Middle Amazon (possibly 

 Rio Negro). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 577 



similar convex fashion above and below. Snout convex over surface 

 and in profile, and its length about f its width. Eye circular, well 

 elevated, close to upper profile, and hind pupil edge about midway 

 in head length. Eyelid free, narrow. Pupil circular. Mouth 

 rather small, a little broad, commissure slightly inclined forward. 

 Muzzle rather prominent, somewhat protruded downward, and 

 jaws equal. Premaxillaries very protractile. Maxillary narrow, 

 extends about f in snout length, and largely concealed by preorbital. 

 Lips moderate, fleshy, firm, at corners of mouth form rather thick 



Fig. 25. — Mquidens madeirce Fowler. (Type.) 



fold. Jaws with an outer series of slightly enlarged, conical, curved 

 teeth, followed by a moderate inner band of smaller villiform teeth. 

 No other teeth. Upper buccal folds present inside mouth, moderate, 

 lower not developed. Tongue thick, fleshy, rather conic end not 

 free. Mandible shallow, rami low, surface convex. Nostrils small, 

 anterior trifle larger, about last f in snout length, and posterior 

 small pore opposite front eye edge above within interorbital. Inter- 

 orbital broadly convex. Hind preopercle edge slightly undulated, 

 inclined forward, its entire extent minutely serrated. Membrane 

 along hind edge of gill-opening narrow. 



Gill-opening extends forward about midway in head. Rakers 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



1+7, short, weak, fleshy stumps, about 4 in filaments, and latter 

 2 in eye. No pseudobranchiae. Isthmus constricted until extremely 

 narrow in front, convex broadly behind. Branchiostegals rather 

 long, narrow, subequal. 



Scales rather large, well exposed, finely ctenoid, in longitudinal 

 series, and slightly smaller on breast than elsewhere on trunk. Fins 

 scaleless, except caudal base, and that covered with numerous 

 small scales. Head largely naked, except 4 series of scales on cheek, 

 6 rows on opercular region, and scaly occipital region. No pointed 

 axillary scaly flaps. Mandible below with 4 pores on each ramus, 

 and along preopercular edge 4 more large pores. L. 1. interrupted 

 below front of soft dorsal, begins at shoulder and curves up until 

 level with upper eye edge, and then sloping gradually and slightly 

 down rest of its course. Lower portion of 1. 1. begins opposite end 

 of upper, about level with lower eye edge, straight or horizontal and 

 extending out on caudal base. Tubes simple, well exposed, and 

 mostly extending to hind edges of scales. 



Spinous dorsal inserted nearer snout tip than first third of space 

 comprised in combined head and trunk length, spines graduated up 

 to sixth, after which all subequally a trifle shorter to last. Edge of 

 spinous dorsal deeply notched, tip of each spine with a well-developed 

 cutaneous flap. Rayed dorsal with median rays longest, forming 

 rather well-defined point, begins before end of upper 1. 1., and edge 

 entire. Spinous anal inserted opposite fourteenth dorsal spine base 

 or a trifle nearer ventral origin than caudal base, spines graduated 

 up to third which longest, membranes notched and tip of each spine 

 with a well-developed free cutaneous flap. Rayed anal like rayed 

 dorsal, though origin of fin slightly before origin of rayed dorsal. 

 Caudal with hind edge convex, median rays longest. Pectoral 

 large, rather long, reaches about | to anal. Ventral inserted about 

 midway between snout tip and anal origin in vertical, entirely behind 

 pectoral base, when depressed not quite reaching anal, and rather 

 strong spine about If in fin. Vent placed at last sixth in space 

 between ventral and anal origins. 



Color in alcohol with ground-color brownish above or on back, 

 becoming paler below, more or less whitish on under surface of head, 

 breast, and belly. Head brownish above, like back. Dusky-brown 

 bar, broader than pupil extends up each side of snout from mouth 

 to eye, bordered above and below with paler, of which latter most 

 contrasted. From upper hind eye edge dark streak narrower and 

 continued to suprascapula. From lower eye edge till down behind 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



€nd of maxillary pale brownish streak, narrower than pupil in width 

 and also with pale lower border. Opercle and cheek brownish. 

 Predorsal scales, and those on back above 1. 1., with pale brownish 

 lengthwise streaks over or between upper and lower boundaries of 

 scale exposures. Back with eight dusky-brown saddles, gradually 

 smaller until only evident as viewed from above at caudal peduncle, 

 though four extend slightly below course of upper 1. 1. Ill-defined 

 ■dusky streak along middle of side, extends to caudal base medianly, 

 marked with six dusky-brown large blotches through its extent, 

 and these alternating with dorsal saddles. At caudal base median 

 lateral band reflected out on median caudal rays. Iris slaty, though 

 traversed by dark band from snout. Dorsals grayish, spinous 

 fin very obscurely mottled sparsely with paler, and on rayed fin 

 5 or 6 transverse broad whitish streaks form. Caudal, except as 

 noted, pale, with several series of dark spots on membranes, most 

 distinct within dark area distally extending from lateral streak. 

 Other fins all pale grayish. 



Length 68 mm. 



Type, No. 39,315, A. N. S. P. Igarape de Candelaria, tributary 

 of the Madeira River, approximately two miles distant in Lat. S. 

 8° 45', W. Long., 63° 54', Brazil. September, 1912. Edgar A. 

 Smith. 



Only the type obtained. It is related to Mquidens tetramerus 

 (Heckel), in the 4 series of scales on the cheek, and scaleless preopercle, 

 characters shared equally with ^. rivulatus (Giinther) and ^. geayi 

 (Pellegrin). It differs from all, however, in coloration. 



(Named for the Madeira River.) 



TETRODONTID^ . 



-ColomeSUS psittaCUS (Schneider). 



Three small examples from the Madeira River about 200 miles 

 .east of W. Long. 63° 54', Brazil. September, 1912. 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV.^ 



November 4. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Nine persons present. 



The presentation of a paper entitled " Contribution to the x\natomy 

 of the Ilysiidae," by Joseph C. Thompson, Surgeon U. S. N., was 

 reported. 



The death of Philip R. Uhler, a member, October 21, was 

 announced. 



November 18. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers 

 under the following titles: — • 



" On the Orthoptera found on the Florida Keys and in extreme 

 Southern Florida. II." By James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard 

 (November 7). 



"Notes on some Costa Rica Arachnida." By Nathan Banks 

 (November 14). 



The Chair announced the death of Prof. Arnim Balzer, a corre- 

 spondent, November 4, 1913. 



The following were elected members: 

 Harvey Stamp, M.D. 

 Herbert H. Gushing, M.D. 

 J. Ewing Mears, M.D. 



The meeting was held in association with the Biological and 

 Microscopical Section. 



The Collecting and Preparation of Diatoms. — Mr. T. Chalkley 

 Palmer, prefacing his remarks on collection and preparation of 

 diatoms, deplored the threatened extinction of the amateur, especially 

 in branches of science involving the use of the microscope. He men- 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



tioned illustrious amateurs, both living and dead, whose work has 

 added greatly to our knowledge of nature. 



The abundance of diatoms in clear waters was indicated, and ap- 

 paratus useful in making collections were exhibited and described. 

 Methods of separating diatoms into pure condition were explained 

 in outline, and those depending on motile activity were emphasized 

 as preferable in many cases to chemical treatments and laborious 

 •decantations. Sedentary forms, such as Synedra, growing on algae, etc., 

 may often be separated by exposing the gathering to sunlight, when 

 the diatoms fall off the buoyant mass and deposit as a perfectly 

 clean layer on the bottom of the bottle. Filamentous forms may 

 usually be cleaned by gentle agitation in distilled water, exposure 

 to sunlight causing flotation, and by other similar means. Motile 

 forms, if in gelatinous aggregates, as Cijmbella, Gotnphonema, are put 

 into a Petri dish with distilled water and permitted to wander out of 

 the unpromising aggregate into thin films or pure groupings on the 

 bottom of the vessel. Unequal lighting of the dish will generally 

 cause preponderant groupings toward the light. The clean frustules 

 are transferred to watch-glasses of distilled water, working with a 

 capillary pipette and low-power binocular microscope. Tenacious 

 or leathery layers of Nitzschia, on stones in rapid waters, are cut off 

 with a knife, and after freeing from detachable mud are left in a 

 small flat bottle of distilled water for 24 hours. The diatoms expand 

 on the upright glass walls, especially upon the lighted side, into thin, 

 coherent films of great purity, detachable with a sharp needle or 

 similar instrument. Larger Naviculse not coherent, but aggregated 

 in patches on the bottom of a spring, are lifted with as little mud as 

 possible, and separated from organic and inorganic flocculence in 

 the same bottle; and a separation in course of Pinnularia, was 

 exhibited, in which the large frustules could be seen, with the aid of 

 a pocket lens, expanding on the glass. 



Distilled water, if well aerated and uncontaminated with metals, 

 especially copper, seems to stimulate the desired activities. The 

 diatoms having been segregated by such means, they are transferred 

 with a capillary pipette to a clean cover-glass, dried and burned to 

 whiteness. The glass is supported on a thin piece of platinum, 

 which in turn rests on a piece of fireclay ground flat. The fireclay 

 is heated to bright redness with a gas burner, the platinum showing 

 only a faint glow. In about fifteen minutes the frustules are free 

 from organic matter, and the mount may be made in the usual way 

 with Canada balsam or styrax. 



The biological method of cleaning, apart from its facility in handling 

 sparse or unpromising material, gives opportunity for interesting 

 observations on the living diatoms. 



On Diatoms of Philadelphia. — Mr, Charles S. Boyer described 

 the diatomaceous fiora of Philadelphia, stating that he was able to 

 add seventy-one names to the catalogue of species heretofore re- 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.^ 



corded. Some are entirely new to the United States, while others 

 are quite rare. 



Among these may be mentioned Actmocyclus barkleyi aggregatu» 

 Rattr., Navicula placenta Ehr., Polymyxus coronalis L. W. Bail, 

 Amphiprora conspicua Grev., Nitzschia clausii Hantzsch. 



Brackish and marine forms occur in the blue-clay deposits in 

 various parts of the city. 



Other rare species were described. 



The entire flora of the city and immediate vicinity numbers 

 probably three hundred distinct species. Illustrations of many 

 diatoms were shown, including some of those found in the city water 

 supply. 



The Critical Point in Liquids. — Mr. Hugo Bilgram remarked that 

 of the various inclusions found in quartz those of liquid dioxide of 

 carbon are among the most interesting. Within more or less irregular 

 microscopic cavities are inclosed three distinctly visible fluids: 

 water, liquid dioxide, and within this a bubble of dioxide vapor. 

 When the temperature is raised, the liquid dioxide is turned into 

 vapor and the bubble disappears. Upon cooling the object, the 

 vapor bubble suddenly reappears. In many cases not a single, but 

 a number of bubbles make their appearance, making it look as if 

 the inclusion were boiling. How is this phenomenon to be explained? 



It is well known that water boils when heated to 100 degrees 

 Celsius; but if exposed to a reduced pressure, its boiling point is 

 lower, and if exposed to a pressure higher than that of the atmos- 

 phere, the boiling point is higher. If the relation of the vapor 

 pressure to the temperature is represented by a curve, it can be seen 

 that at a point somewhat over 300 degrees the pressure curve extends 

 to infinity. This shows that above this temperature water cannot 

 exist in liquid form, no matter how high the pressure, and this degree 

 of heat is termed the "critical point." 



All volatile liquids show the same peculiarity, but the critical 

 point is different for different liquids. That of dioxide of carbon 

 is in the neighborhood of 28 degrees Celsius, and the phenomena 

 above described present the change of dioxide of carbon from the 

 liquid to the gaseous state and vice versa at a temperature which is 

 near the critical point. From the peculiar features of the phenomena 

 very interesting inferences can be derived. 



There is a sharp distinction between fluids and gases, as we know 

 them, the principal differences being in relation to elasticity, cohe- 

 sion, and expansion by heat. While gases are highly compressible 

 and have a high coefficient of expansion by heat, compressibility 

 of liquids is very slight and expansion by heat not very great. While 

 gases readily expand if the space of their confinement is increased, 

 liquids maintain their volume. In gases there is a total absence of 

 cohesion, while in the case of liquids the molecules cohere. When 

 water or any other liquid is converted into steam, the change from 

 the liquid to the vapor state is abrupt. But the phenomena exhibited 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 583 



by the dioxide inclusions indicate that when a liquid is heated to its 

 critical point and is finally converted into a gas, it gradually passes 

 from one to the other state. A slight rise in temperature causes the 

 inclosed bubbles rapidly to diminish in size, indicating a high expansion 

 coefficient of the liquid portion. After the bubbles have disappeared, 

 a further advance of temperature does not burst the walls of the cavity, 

 showing the liquid to be compressible. In cooling, the bubble or 

 bubbles suddenly appear of a definite size instead of growing from a 

 mere point. Before that moment the contents of the cavity are 

 no doubt in a liquid condition, otherwise bubbles could not be seen. 

 By cooling the prevailing high pressure is reduced until it falls below 

 the vapor pressure of the dioxide corresponding to the temperature, 

 and there is a tendency to form a small bubble. But its formation 

 is resisted by the cohesion of the molecules. Only after the pre- 

 vailing pressure has been lowered so much that the excess of the 

 vapor pressure is competent to overcome cohesion will a sudden 

 rupture take place, attended by an instantaneous reduction of the 

 volume of the liquid due to the sudden increase of pressure. This 

 accounts for the sudden appearance of bubbles at a definite size. 

 We can therefore conclude that a liquid, when near its critical point, 

 is in a state that is intermediate between the liquid and the gaseous 

 states. 



Mr. Van Sickle described a method of making detailed labels 

 for microscopic slides by photographic reduction. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. 



NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF THE ISLAND OF ANTIGUA. 

 BY AMOS P. BROWN, PH.D. 



During parts of July and August, 1913, I made a vi^it to the 

 island of Antigua in the hope of finding a place where the Oligocene 

 fauna of the rocks of the island would be in a condition to per- 

 mit of extensive collection. I was in hopes that the fossils would 

 be found in incoherent or soft material as I found them at Panama 

 and as Gabb found them in Santo Domingo. With this in view, I 

 made a rather close examination of practically all places from which 

 fossils had been obtained that were known to the local naturalists 

 of the island. Three weeks were spent on the island and many 

 locaUties were visited. In this search I was aided by Mr. W. R. 

 Forrest, a resident of St. John's, and by Mr. H. A. Tempany, Super- 

 intendent of Agriculture of the Leeward Islands, also of St. John's. 

 To both of these gentlemen I was indebted for many courtesies, and 

 each of them acted as my guide to localities on several occasions. 

 I was not successful in finding any place where the fossiliferous 

 deposits were in a condition permitting of the ready extraction of 

 the specimens, although from what I was able to observe the fauna 

 represented is a large one. 



The island of Antigua lies in latitude 17° to 17° 10' north and 

 between longitude 61° 40' and 61° 55' west of Greenwich. It lies in 

 the outer row of calcareous islands in the Leeward group, which 

 comprises eastern Guadaloupe (Grande Terre), Marie Galante, 

 Antigua, Barbuda, St. Bartholomew, St. Martins, Anguilla and 

 Sombrero. It measures about 9| miles from north to south and 

 12 miles from east to west, with a coast-line of some 70 miles and an 

 area of 108 square miles. The*hape of the island is roughly trape- 

 zoidal or nearly triangular, the coast-line is deeply indented by bays 

 on the northeast and east sides, with Willoughby Bay at the southeast 

 corner, English and Falmouth Harbors on the south coast, and 

 Morris Bay, Five Islands Harbor and St. John's Harbor on the west 

 side. Numerous smaller bays and roadsteads have received names 

 and are used by the coasting boats calling at points along the south 

 and west shores. The surface of the island is roughly divided into 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



three regions by the Central Plain, which extends diagonally across 

 the island from St. John's Harbor in the northwest to Willoughby 

 Bay in the southeast; a region that is generally flat and at no great 

 elevation above the sea, but with several hills rising from the plain 

 to an altitude of 200-350 feet. To the northeast of this Central 

 Plain is the marl or limestone belt, a region of undulating land 

 at a somewhat higher elevation than the Central Plain (150-200 feet), 

 with hills rising to 250 up to 350 feet; and in the southeast, in St. 

 Philip's Parish, to an elevation of above 400 feet. To the southwest 

 of the Central Plain is the more mountainous part of the island, the 

 distinctly volcanic portion, where the hills rise to an elevation in 

 some cases of more than 1000 feet. The highest of these hills is 

 Boggy Peak, with an elevation stated as 1360 feet, and several others, 

 as Bottle Peak and McNish Mountain, reach 1000 feet. These hills 

 are of volcanic materials and show, as Spencer points out, the erosion 

 features of a mountain plateau region, with narrow ridges separating 

 the valleys. No distinct volcanic cone exists in this part of the 

 island, but several hollows in the hills have been described as volcanic 

 craters. It is doubtful if any crater is still in a recognizable state in 

 the island. The hills around Five Islands Harbor are of the same 

 volcanic materials as those in the southwest of the island, but here 

 again there is no definite crater, unless indeed the basin of the harbor 

 represent such a one. Southwest of the Central Plain the ground 

 is too hilly to allow of large continuous cultivations such as are found 

 in the Central Plain and in the limestone country to the northeast, 

 and in this volcanic portion extensive cultivation has been largely 

 abandoned, although the woods have been mostly cut off for fire wood. 

 The rest of the island is and has been under cultivation for a long 

 period mostly in sugar cane, and, like all of these sugar-producing 

 islands, the land is held by large estates. The only considerable 

 town is the capital, St. John's, where there is a hotel. Access to 

 outlying localities must be had mainly by driving. In this way I 

 visited points along the coast and certain places in the interior. 

 Such localities as could be reached by walking from St. John's were 

 also visited. As the island is not large, the three weeks spent at 

 St. J(ihn's enabled me to visit most of the localities where fossils were 

 likely to be met with. I was also able to examine collections of the 

 rocks of the island at the office of Mr. Tempany, and Mr, Forrest 

 presented me with specimens of the landshells and some fossils. 

 To compare with the marine shells found in the soil of the Central 

 Plain, collections were made of the marine fauna along the shores 

 39 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



of St. John's Harbor and north to Corbizon Point. The land shells 

 now living in the island were collected (when encountered) for 

 comparison with the faunas of neighboring islands, but this collection 

 is probably not complete. Upon the field notes and observations 

 on the geology the following description of the geology of Antigua 

 is based. 



The first notice of the geology of the island of Antigua appeared 

 in 1819 as a preliminary paper in the American Journal of Science,^ 

 by Dr. Nicholas Nugent, of Antigua, but this was followed two 

 years later by a fuller paper by Dr. Nugent, entitled, ''A Sketch of the 

 Geology of the Island of Antigua, "^ published in the Transactions 

 of the Geological Society of London. 



Dr. Nugent's paper was communicated to the 'Geological Society 

 on November 5, 1819, and was accompanied by a collection of rocks 

 and fossils to illustrate the paper; of which collection the fossil corals 

 have been studied about forty years after their presentation by 

 P. Martin Duncan. The moUusks have never been worked over and 

 a list of the species published. Later, in 1839, Professor S. Hovey, 

 of Yale and Amherst Colleges, visited the island, and with Dr. Nugent 

 as guide, examined some of the principal localities. Upon his return 

 to America he published a paper ^ on the ''Geology of Antigua," 

 compiled, as he himself states in this communication, frmn Nugent's 

 "Sketch" and from a paper by Dr. Thomas Nicholson, written 

 for the Antigua Almanac and Register. Dr. Nugent divides the 

 geological formations of the island into four, of which the basal 

 member. No. 1, is described as "trap and trap-breccia," No. 2 is 

 "stratified conglomerate," No. 3 is "chert," and No. 4 is "marl 

 or calcareous rock. " In his maps he reverses the order of the " strati- 

 fied conglomerate" and the "chert," but explains in the Appendix'^ 

 that this was a mistake, although he at one time entertained this 

 view of the structure of the island. Dr. Nugent's paper, which shows 

 keen observation, remained for long the classic on Antiguan geology, 

 until the appearance of M. J. C. Purves's Geological Sketch of the 



1 Am. Jour. Sci., ser. 1, Vol. I (1819), p. 140. Wm. Maclure refers to the 

 island of Antigua in his "Observations on the Geology of the West Indian Islands, 

 from Barbadoes to Santa Cruz, " but he did not visit the island. See Jturnal 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, Vol. I, pt. 1, 1817. 



2 Trans. Geol. Soc. ser. 1, Vol. V (1821), pp. 459-475. 



^ "Geology of Antigua, " by Prof. S. Hovey, Amer. Jour. Sci., ser. 1, Vol. XXXV 

 (1839), pp. 75-85. 



* Extracts from a letter to Professor William Buckland, one of the Vice- 

 presidents of the Geological Society of London, from Dr. Nugent. Trans. Geol. 

 Soc, series 1, Vol. V (1821), p. 470. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



island of Antigua, which was published in 1885, in the Bulletin 

 du Musee Royal d'Histoire NatureUe de Belgique/-' This paper by 

 M. Purves is much fuller than that by Nugent, and he distinguishes 

 more divisions in the geological formations. The divisions of 

 M. Purves are as follows: 



H. Horizontal marls. 



G. Upper limestones and marls. 



F. Upper tuffs. 



E. Lacustrine or fresh-water chert. 



D. Volcanic sands and sandstones. 



C. Lower limestone or marine chert 



B. Lower stratified tuffs. 



A. Porphyrites and volcanic agglomerates. 



Of these *'A. Porphyrites and volcanic agglomerates" is the 

 No. 1 of Nugent, "trap and trap-breccia" ; "B. Lower stratified tuffs" 

 is the "stratified conglomerate" No. 2 of Nugent; C, D, E, and F, 

 of Purves come in the "chert" of Nugent No. 3, who did not recognize 

 any distinction between the marine and the fresh-water cherts; 

 while divisions G and H of Purves are included in the "marl or 

 calcareous beds," No. 4 of Nugent. Indeed, it is rather doubtful 

 if Nugent recognized the horizontal marls at all. This paper of 

 M. Purves is accompanied by a geological map of Antigua, upon 

 which the divisions which he recognizes are set down, and a geological 

 section from St. Mary's Rectory to Drew's Hill and thence to Hodge 

 Bay is given to show the structure. This map indicates a fault, 

 with upthrow to the northeast and general N. W.-S. E. strike, dis- 

 locating the formations so that D, "the volcanic sands," is brought 

 to the surface and lies next to F, the "upper tuffs." This makes 

 the lacustrine or fresh-water cherts appear at the surface in two 

 bands traversing the island from northwest to southeast. Several 

 minor faults are shown on this map, and I observed a number which 

 have not been mapped. This fault, as indicated by Purves, runs 

 from about ^ mile south of Corbizon Point on the northwest coast to 

 the small bay between Isaac Point and Standfast Point which lies 

 to the southwest of Willoughby Bay at the southeast of the island. 

 It is of interest in connection with the paper by Guppy mentioned 

 below. Each of the eight divisions of the formations of the island 

 enumerated by Purves is described in detail as regards its composi- 

 tion and character, but little information is given in regard to the 



5 "Esquisse geologique de I'lle d'Antigoa." Btill. Mus. Roy. Hist. Nat. Bela.^ 

 Vol. Ill, 1884-85, pp. 273-318. 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



organic remains, and that of a very general kind, only the genus 

 being noted in many cases. A short list of corals from the lower 

 marine chert and limestone, C, is given, however, which will be 

 referred to later in this paper. 



Some reference to the movements of elevation and subsidence of 

 Antigua is given in a paper by Dr. J. W. Gregory, "On the Palaeon- 

 tology and Physical Geology of the West Indies, "" and a few additions 

 to the palseontology of Antigua are there noted. 



The next paper to be published dealing with the geology of Antigua 

 is by Professor J. W. W. Spencer, "On the Geological and Physical 

 Development of Antigua"^ which appeared in 1901. This gives a 

 revision of the formations of the island, as follows, the basal member 

 being placed at the bottom: 



8. Recent deposits, raised beaches. 



7. Cassada Garden gravels. 



6. Friars Hill series, pebbles and marl. 



5. Hodge's Hill calcareous sandstones. 



4. White limestone or Antigua formation. 



3. Tuffs and included marls and chert. 



2. Seaforth limestone. 



1. Igneous basement. 



Comparing this with the divisions as recognized by Purves, given 

 above, the first division, 1, corresponds to his A; that is, the "igneous 

 basement" of Spencer is the "porphyrites and volcanic agglomerates" 

 of Purves. Spencer's Seaforth limestone does not seem to have been 

 recognized by Purves, although it doubtless exists near Seaforth; 

 and I was shown specimens from this horizon by several collectors, 

 said to have come from the base of the stratified tuffs. Spencer's 

 No. 3, "Tuffs and included marls and chert," includes divisions 

 B, C, D, E, and F of Purves, these formations occupying the "Central 

 Plain" of Antigua. Purves's division G, upper limestones and marls, 

 is the same as Spencer's No. 4, "White limestone or Antigua forma- 

 tion," and may also include his division 5, Hodge's Hill calcareous 

 sandstone. Spencer's divisions 6 and 7, "Friars Hill series" and 

 "Cassada Garden gravels," were not recognized by Purves; while 

 his division 8 is the same as the "horizontal marl" of Purves. Upon 

 the whole, this division of the formations recognized by Spencer 

 agrees with the observations which I was able to make while on the 

 island better than do those of Purves or Nugent, although in each 



6 Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. London, LI, 1895, p. 295. 



^ Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. London, LVII (1901), pp. 490-505. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 589 



case the formation described may be readily recognized. Spencer's 

 divisions seem to be more in accordance with the history of the devel- 

 opment of the island as indicated in the record preserved in the rocks. 



Spencer's paper is accompanied by a geological map of Antigua 

 upon which he has laid down his divisions 1, 3, and 4; the other 

 divisions which he recognizes being probably too local and too ill- 

 defined in outline to be mapped. No faults are shown and no 

 geological section accompanies the map. 



The latest paper upon the geology of Antigua which has appeared 

 is by R. J. Lechmere Guppy,^ following an examination of the island 

 made in 1910. As Mr, Guppy states, this examination, on account 

 of his physical disabilities, was necessarily incomplete. His visit 

 to the island was to see if any trace of the "Great Antillean Disloca- 

 tion," postulated in his paper, "Geological Connections of the Carib- 

 bean Region"^ as extending from Trinidad to Sombrero and thence 

 through the northern part of the island of Haiti, was to be found in 

 Antigua. This great fault, Mr. Guppy thinks, passes through An- 

 tigua, through the Central Plain, from Willoughby Bay to St. John's 

 Harbor; the occurrence of which two bays is his principal argument 

 in favor of this fault. Purves, on his map of Antigua, indicates a 

 fault in somewhat the same position as this Great Dislocation of 

 Guppy, but the fault as shown by Purves does not take the same 

 course, running from a little south of Corbizon Point on the northwest 

 coast, about 2 miles to the north of the fault indicated by Guppy 

 (which starts at St. John's Harbor), to a bay between Isaac Point and 

 Steadfast Point, about a mile to the west of the head of Willoughby 

 Bay. Moreover, the fault shown by Purves is not indicated as a 

 dislocation of great magnitude, while that of Guppy is a "Great 

 Dislocation," bringing up the "older beds" of the Antigua Formation 

 of Spencer, which, according to Mr. Guppy, "is of a very Cretaceous 

 aspect." Upon what he bases this statement is not explained, the 

 evidence of the fossils contained in this Antigua formation points 

 to its being of Oligocene age, as will be shown later. But Mr. Guppy, 

 it seems, is not a believer in the occurrence of the Oligocene in the 

 West Indies, as he remarks in this paper (p. 684) : " Even so eminent 

 a professor as J. W. Gregory has fallen into the common error of 

 mixing up the Miocene with the Eocene, and calling the result 

 'Oligocene. ' " Guppy 's paper does not .add much data for fixing the 



* R. J. L. Guppy, "On the Geology of Antigua and other West Indian Islands 

 with reference to the Physical History of the Caribbean Region," Quart. Jour. 

 Geol. Soc. London (1911), Vol. LXVII, pp. 681-700. 



3 Guppy, Tratis. Canad. Inst., Vol. VIII, 1908-1909, p. .373. 




590 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov. 



age of the white limestone or Antigua formation, although he 

 records having visited "a marl pit about 2 miles from St. John's" 

 with Mr. W. R. Forrest (doubtless the one on Marble Hill, which 

 I visited twice, once in company with Mr. Forrest) in which he found 

 casts of Pholadomya and also of Turritella. Upon my visit to this 

 locality in company with Mr. Forrest, we were not so fortunate, 

 finding only the small, badly preserved branching corals, common 

 in the marl everywhere, but Mr. Forrest remarked to me that Turri- 

 tellas were sometimes found here as casts, and also casts of bivalves. 

 The preservation of the fossils in these soft marls is very imperfect, 

 and secondary crystallization obscures the structure. They are 

 rarely determinable specifically. The major part of Mr. Guppy's 

 paper is taken up in discussing the "Great Dislocation," of which, 

 during my stay upon the island, I did not see any evidence; nor has 

 its presence been detected by Mr. R. W. Forrest, who has given 

 much attention to the geology of the island. 



The general succession of the formations in Antigua has been 

 discussed by Nugent, Purves, and Spencer, and a brief review of their 

 several arrangements of the strata has been given above and their 

 correlations indicated. From my own observations, a slightly differ- 

 ent arrangement has been deduced, as follows: 



Table of the Geological Formation of Antigua. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



The water-deposited beds of the island are apparently all included 

 in the Oligocene and Pleistocene; the Miocene and Pliocene are 

 entirely wanting, indicating that the island was not submerged 

 during this time. But a submergence occurred at the end of the 

 Pliocene which permitted the formation of marine deposits in many 

 parts of the island. The movement of the island at present appears 

 to be upward, and the formation of salt pond and mangrove swamp 

 deposits at many places along the coast line is still in progress. The 

 age of the accumulation of the "igneous basement" is set down in 

 the above table as possibly Eocene, not from any fossils which it 

 contains, but because the bedded deposits of the Oligocene appear 

 to overlie it. The volcanic activity continued, however, into the 

 Oligocene during the time of the deposit of the tuffs, and the white 

 limestone itself is intersected by dykes of the igneous material. 

 These deposits will now be described in more detail. 



1. The Igneous Basement. 



This is what Dr. Nugent has called the "trap formation"; it is 

 M. Purves's "porphyrites and volcanic agglomerates," or the 

 'foundation rocks of the island" or "igneous basement" of Spencer. 

 I have used Spencer's term. The rocks included in this formation 

 lie to the west of a line drawn from the head of Five Islands Bay, 

 southeasterly towards English Harbor, and they lie in the southwest 

 part of the island. They are exposed along the coast from the mouth 

 of Five Islands Bay to the southwest corner of the island and thence 

 east to the head of Falmouth Harbor. I inspected this region in 

 company with Mr. Forrest from St. John's to St. Mary's, Old Road 

 (nearly due south of St. John's), and thence along the south coast 

 to St. Mary's Rectory at the southwest extremity, and from 

 there up the west coast to St. Mary's in the Valley, and back to 

 St. John's by the Central Plain. Mr. Tempany showed me his 

 collection of these rocks, which corresponded with those seen on the 

 trip with Mr. Forrest. They consist of massive igneous flows and 

 subaerially deposited ashes, mainly in layers, and with many volcanic 

 agglomerates, consisting of ash and volcanic fragments held together 

 by the material of the flows. Large volcanic bombs occur in this 

 agglomerate with fragments down to fine lapilli and o-sh. The 

 flows are mainly pyroxene andesite, often compact; and also basalt, 

 or the same material as the pyroxene andesite with much olivine. 

 Dykes of compact andesite and basalt intersect the tuffs and agglom- 

 erates. The rocks are prevailingly andesitic, and the tuff and 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



agglomerate is in excess of the material in the form of flows. Many 

 of the tuffs and other materials have midergone alteration, and, 

 according to the statements of Mr. Tempany, metamorphosed 

 sediments occur. Such is the Seaforth limestone as described by 

 Spencer, but specimens of this rock which I was shown in collections 

 do not show metamorphism to any considerable extent. Water- 

 deposited tuff may occur, at least near the borders of this formation, 

 and in the tuffs of the Central Plain area I saw deposits not greatly 

 different from those observed in these igneous foundation rocks of 

 the island. No definite volcanic cone from which these deposits 

 came is now in existence, all the hills being much eroded and dis- 

 sected. Remnants of such cones may exist near Five Islands Bay, 

 or the bay itself may represent the site of a crater. Another remnant 

 of a crater was reported as being in existence near the southwest 

 corner of the island, but no cone exists there at present. 



2. The Seaforth Limestone. 



I did not visit the type locality of this material, and only had the 

 opportunity of inspecting two lots of specimens from the formation. 

 Spencer describes it as ''occurring at a few points in the valleys of the 

 mountain zone" or among the rocks of the igneous basement; and 

 states that it is a compact dark gray limestone. Mr. Tempany gave 

 a similar description of its appearance and occurrence, but the 

 specimen of it which he showed me in his collection was a somewhat 

 flinty rock with undoubted Orbitoides in it. Mr. Gillie, rector of the 

 parish of St. Mary's, who resides near the southwest corner of the 

 island, showed me some pieces of a limestone from Seaforth of quite 

 a different character. It was a dark gray compact limestone, but 

 crowded with the shells of bivalves, probably oysters, that were 

 specifically undeterminable. There was nothing in either of these 

 specimens to lead me to suppose that they were older than Oligocene, 

 while the occurrence of the Orbitoides, in a form not greatly different 

 from that found in the white limestone, rather pointed to this age 

 for the deposit. Purves did not recognize this Seaforth limestone. 



3. Water-deposited Tuffs and Shales, with included Marls 

 AND Cherts. 



These formations occupy almost the entire area of the Central 

 Plain. They include the divisions recognized by Purves under the 

 names B, Lower stratified tuffs; C, Lower limestone and marine 

 chert; D, Volcanic sands and sandstones; E, Lacustrine and fresh- 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 593^^ 



water chert; F, Upper tuffs. They have been placed together by 

 Spencer as one group of deposits, and while it may be possible locally 

 to recognize the divisions made by Purves, the cherty limestones 

 of marine origin, and possibly also those of fresh-water origin, are in 

 more or less lenticular deposits and not continuous. The division 

 D of Purves, "Volcanic sands and sandstones," is locally developed 

 and underlies in some places the fresh-water cherts or the layer 

 containing the fossil wood, but it does not differ very much in appear- 

 ance from some phases of B, the lower stratified tuffs. This division 

 B of Purves, the lowest member of this group of deposits, is found to 

 the west of the Central Plain, and well developed along the southern 

 shore of St. John's Harbor. The beds have the appearance of a 

 buff-colored sandstone, but on close examination the fragments of 

 which it is composed are seen to be angular, not water worn, and 

 to consist of volcanic rock and feldspar. These lower beds maj^ have 

 a higher dip than those of the Central Plain — 20°-30°, as against 

 12°-15° — and the dip is more to the north in many cases. But as the 

 higher rocks in this lower series of tuffs are encountered, the dip 

 diminishes and becomes more northeast. At the level of the lower 

 limestone and marine chert as seen just to the south of St. John's 

 (about a mile south of the town) the tuff becomes almost white 

 from admixed kaolin, and has this lower dip of 12° N. E. It is in 

 some places, soft, in others hard and compact, and almost pure white 

 except for black specks of magnetite. This magnetite forms black 

 layers on many of the recent sea-beaches and consists of octahedral 

 crystals and angular fragments of crystals. The limestone deposit, 

 which in places is altered to a flint or chert, contains corals, those 

 from the Nugent collection in the possession of the Geological Society 

 of London have yielded the following species (Duncan) :^° 



Astrwa cellulosa var. curvata Duncan. 



Astrcea megalaxona Duncan. 



Astrcea antillarum Duncan. 



Solenastroea turonensis Mich. 



Isastrcea conferta Duncan. 



Isastrcea turbinata Duncan. 



Stephanocce7iia tenuis Duncan, also found in the lower tuffs. 



Coeloria dens-elephantis Duncan. 



Astroria polygonalis Duncan. 



Astroria affinis Duncan. 



Astroria antiguensis Duncan. 



Astroccenia ornatd Ed. and H. 



Alveopora dcedala Blainv., also vars. regularis and minor. 



Styloccenia lobato-rotundata (Mich.). 



10 Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. London, Vol. XIX, 1863, p. 477. 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



These cherts and cherty limestones occur also at Jackass Point 

 in St. John's Harbor. The same character of rock, marly limestone 

 with associated flint and chert, and with corals, etc., is found in the 

 town of St. John's, and is, in fact, the material upon which the cathe- 

 dral is built. At the cathedral it is mostly chert, and the flint and 

 chert are found to the southeast of the town along the roads. Mol- 

 lusks have been reported from this chert, but no species have been 

 determined, although doubtless a considerable fauna will be found 

 in the Nugent collection when it comes to be studied. This last 

 hne of this rock, which runs southeast from St. John's Cathedral, is 

 probably another layer of the marl and chert parallel to the one 

 mentioned as running from Jackass Point southeast to near the 

 sugar factory, one mile south of St. John's. 



It is seen exposed, and fragments of the flint are plentiful along 

 the roads to the southeast of the town, south of the Botanic Station; 

 indeed, it forms some of the small hills in this section. These deposits 

 seem to be more or less discontinuous and are only to be seen where 

 the ground becomes too hilly or the soil too stony for cane culti- 

 vation. 



The "volcanic sands and sandstones," bed D, of Purves are even 

 more discontinuous. They are characteristically developed, as he 

 describes them, along the northwest sea-coast at Dry Hill and at 

 Corbizon Point, where they are overlaid by the "lacustrine chert" 

 of Purves. Traces of these "volcanic sands" are seen in some places 

 to the east of St. John's, but their horizon is only marked in some 

 places by sandy lumps and concretions in the white tufaceous rock. 

 Sands at the horizon for these "D" beds are seen in patches from 

 Corbizon Point to the southeast, into the interior of the island; but 

 that they are often wanting, as may be seen on the hills east of the 

 Botanic Station, where a continuous section of the white tuffs, some 

 with sandy modules or concretions representing the horizon of 

 "D," the "volcanic sands," is overlain by the "lacustrine chert" 

 with fresh-water shells imbedded in its mass. At the Public Ceme- 

 tery, also, the sands are wanting, only the sandy nodules mark the 

 horizon of these beds. The white tuffs above the "marine chert" 

 are sometimes partly replaced by the lenticular masses of the volcanic 

 sands, or sometimes these sands are entirely wanting. These white 

 tuffs owe their color to kaolin from the alteration of feldspar in the 

 volcanic ash, and are mixtures of ash (usually fragments of feldspar) 

 and kaolin. The admixture of kaolin becomes so plentiful in the 

 upper beds that the rock might be called either a water-deposited 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



tuff or a shale; in fact, it is of much the composition of pipe-clay. 

 This is particularly true of the layers above the lacustrine chert 

 horizon, where these virtual shales become very white and thin- 

 bedded and are hard to distinguish, when massive, from the overlying 

 marls. These are the upper tuffs of Purves, and are quarried at 

 Scotts Hill. 



When the ''volcanic sands and sandstones" are typically developed, 

 ^s at Dry Hill or at Corbizon Point, they form the base of the section. 

 They are dark reddish or purplish in color, with numerous concre- 

 tions, resembling boulders, of a somewhat harder character, and are 

 made up of volcanic sand and gravel, all water worn, with small 

 pebbles of the compact hard andesite of the igneous basement, from 

 which they are doubtless derived. They are but slightly compacted; 

 firm, but yielding readily to the pick, and crumbling easily in the 

 fingers when in detached fragments. They are overlaid by a few 

 feet of yellowish tuff conglomerate, consisting of rolled fragments 

 of a lighter color, with much green earth in minute particles, which 

 gradually passes into the impure yellowish marls with the flint 

 layers of the "lacustrine or fresh-water chert." The exposure of 

 these flinty layers at Dry Hill follows the strike of the rock for some 

 distance, and these beds at this point have furnished the following 

 section : 



Section at Dry Hill. 



5. Compact shale with plant impressions 10 ft. 



4. Hard impure limestone with two, or sometimes three, 

 layers of flint, carrying fresh-water shells; the flint layers 

 varying from one inch to four inches thick, and the fossils 

 occupying about one inch thickness in each case 2 ft. 



3. Hard impure limestone without fossil layers 2 ft. 



2. Yellowish tuff conglomerate, pebbles of tuff and andesite 5 ft. 



1. Dark reddish or purplish volcanic sandstone 18 ft.-f 



The base of the volcanic sands is not exposed at this locality nor 

 at Corbizon Point. Several small faults exist near the north end of 

 the Dry Hill exposure, one dislocates the measures about 25 ft. with 

 an upthrow to the north, and one or more must exist between Dry 

 Hill and Corbizon Point, the total upthrow to the north aggregating 

 upwards of 400 feet, as the same succession of beds is to be noted at 

 Corbizon Point as is given in the above section at Dry Hill. No 

 exposures of the rock in place can be seen along the coast between 

 Dry Hill and Corbizon Point, the beach being fiat and sandy; and 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.^ 



inland there is a salt pond, while still further inland the cane cul- 

 tivation covers all exposures. At Corbizon Point, however, the upper 

 flinty layers carry fragments of silicified wood, and this is the horizon 

 of the silicified wood for which Antigua is noted. This horizon may 

 be traced across the island by the silicified wood and to some distance 

 to the southeast by the flint and chert with the fresh-water fossils. 

 Mr. W. R. Forrest informs me that the silicified wood is in place 

 along the north shore of Willoughby Bay; but, if so, it is not this 

 layer, always supposing that the map of Purves is correct. The 

 fresh-water fossils have not been determined specifically, a list of 

 the genera found is given by Purves. Collections of them which I 

 obtained at Dry Hill are now being studied and will be reported 

 upon later. 



The silicified wood, for which the island is noted, probably all 

 comes from this horizon. It is found throughout the Central Plain, 

 especially in the central part of the island, and lies about on the 

 surface in fragments of varying sizes, although nowhere, at present, 

 are trunks of 14 feet long by one foot or more in diameter encoun- 

 tered, such as are described by Dr. Nugent. These silicified woods 

 are found scattered about upon the surface, but are rarely seen 

 in situ; they are very plentiful at Bellevue and at Cassada Garden. 

 They include both Monocotyledons and Dicotyledons, but have 

 never been studied specifically. Purves mentions having found 

 stems and fruit of Chara 'in the beds carrying these deposits. The 

 shales at Dry Hill which overlie the fresh-water, mollusk-l^earing 

 flinty layers carry fragments of leaves of palms and other vegetable 

 matter; these beds are mixtures of kaolin and volcanic ash, and, 

 while brownish or dun-colored from the admixed vegetable matter, 

 they are evidently a part of the white shales and tuffs of the upper 

 layers of this division. As has been stated, these upper shales and 

 tuffs are well exposed at Scotts Hill, some two miles to the southeast 

 of St. John's, where they are quarried for road metal. They are 

 here hard and compact, breaking into angular fragments on exposure, 

 and wearing down, when used on the roads, to a tenacious clay. This 

 rock consists, as seen under the microscope, of kaolin mixed with 

 volcanic ash, the kaolin largely predominating. It is partly ce- 

 mented by secondary silica from the feldspar of the volcanic ash. 

 It becomes calcareous towards the top and passes upward into the 

 marls of the white limestone or Antigua formation. Indeed, when 

 it is hard and compact, this rock closely resembles the harder parts 

 of the marl, and the application of an acid is often necessary to 

 distinguish it from the true mark 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



The total thickness of this division is upwards of 2000 feet or more, 

 and of this more than half is below the lacustrine flint layer; the 

 bottom of the formation is hard to define, as it is not easily dis- 

 tinguished from the bedded deposits of the basal igneous complex. 

 But of the distinctly bedded deposits, which are exposed in many 

 places and always with the same general north or northeast dip, 

 the thickness must be at least 2000 feet. The division is composed 

 of the volcanic material of the igneous basement, reworked by water, 

 and water deposited; mixed likely with other volcanic material 

 which, erupted during the deposition of these beds, fell into the 

 water, and was distributed on the sea bottom. 



As indicated above, these tuff beds, with their included marls and 

 cherts, appear to pass upward into the marls and limestones of the 

 Antigua formation without any stratigraphic break, or the Antigua 

 formation rests conformably upon them. At several places along 

 the contact of the marls with the tuffs and shales shallow wells 

 have been sunk for water, and while the contact of these two forma- 

 tions is seldom exposed, the conformable character of it is indicated 

 by these diggings. When the Antigua formation itself is found well 

 exposed near the contact, the dip of the marls is about the same as 

 that of the tuffs, and is in the same direction; that is, the marls are 

 found to dip gently at 10°-12° to the northeast in the same way as 

 the tuffs. There is certainly no indication of a fault separating the 

 two formations as suggested by Mr. Guppy. The fossils of the 

 included marls and cherts, interbedded with the tuffs and shales, 

 do not indicate any other age than Oligocene, which is the age of the 

 Antigua limestone as indicated by its fossils. But the species that 

 have been observed in the Antigua limestone are only in part the 

 same as have been determined from the tuffs and included marls 

 and cherts. These tuffs were, in part at least, shallow water forma- 

 tions; mud cracks and even ripple marks were observed by me in the 

 tuffs underlying the lacustrine cherts, and the presence of these 

 fresh-water deposits (the lacustrine cherts) indicates land at this 

 time. The tuffs may have accumulated rapidly when they are 

 €oarse in grain, as these volcanic conglomerates which underlie the 

 fresh-water deposits, but the finer material of the thin-bedded tuffs 

 which overlie this horizon were probably slowly deposited and in 

 water of greater depth. This was likely the case with the marls of 

 the Antigua formation also, in great part; although some of the 

 harder limestone beds of this deposit have the appearance of coral- 

 reef material. 




598 proceedings of the academy of [nov., 



4. The Antigua Formation of Spencer. 



East of a line running from near Wetherill's Point to the head of 

 Willoughby Bay the surface of the island is composed of the Antigua 

 Formation (as Spencer has named it), a white chalky or marly rock 

 with harder layers which may be properly called limestone. In the 

 cane cultivations with which the island is covered from the Central 

 Plain easterly, this formation may often be recognized by a pronounced 

 blackness of the soil where the marls are encountered. They are 

 often exposed in road-cuttings, or on the hillsides by artificial diggings 

 ("marl pits") for material to be used as road metal; and where soft, 

 the dip is obscure, but where more hard the same northeasterly dip 

 is seen that was so characteristic of the tuffs and shales. As soon as 

 the harder limestone layers are encountered, they make hills with a 

 gentle easterly slope, but a steeper westerly one on the escarpment 

 side of the hill; and this harder part of the marl or the harder lime- 

 stone is often exposed upon this escarpment side of the hill in con- 

 siderable cliffs. Where the harder limestones outcrop along the 

 coast as at Wetherill Bay and Hodge's Bay along the north coast, 

 and at High Point and other places to windward along the east coast, 

 around to Willoughby Bay on the southeast coast, these harder 

 layers form sea cliffs. These harder layers, too, form in many cases 

 the capping of the hills, which are ridges with an even summit in 

 such cases. Where the dip can be seen, on such harder layers, it is 

 uniformly to the northeast, and the thickness of this Antigua for- 

 mation, as indicated by this dip, must be upwards of 1500 feet at 

 least. The harder layers have generallj^ the same organic remains, 

 and this seems to indicate (unless the formation is faulted) that 

 there are several parallel hard layers. The fossils contained in the 

 softer marls are usually corals, in a much altered and crystallized 

 condition; the crystallization being due to the deposit of carbonates 

 (as calcite and dolomite) or to silica in the form of quartz, crystals 

 of which substance are frequently seen in the marls. The harder 

 layers are often compact limestone, sometimes nearly barren of 

 fossils, at other times crowded with organic remains. The most 

 characteristic fossil in the harder layers is an Orbitoides, which has 

 been determined by T. Rupert Jones (and this determination later 

 confirmed by Dr. Lang, of the British Museum) as Orbitoides mantelli 

 Mort. This Orbitoides, in many cases, forms the bulk of the limestone, 

 and water-worn pebbles from the seashore frequently show only 

 sections of this Orbitoides with no other fossil. But in other layers 

 are found shells of oysters, pectens, and other pelecypods, while in 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 599 



other cases the rock is composed of masses and fragments of corals. 

 The corals of the Nugent collection were determined by Duncan," 

 who gives the following list of species: 



Duncan's List of Corals in the Nugent Collection from the Antigua 

 Formation. 



AstroEa crassolamellata Duncan, with the varieties magnetica., 

 pulchella, nohilis, minor, nugenti, magnifica. 

 Astrcea antiguensis Duncan. 

 Astrcea endothecata Duncan. 

 Astrcea tenuis Duncan. 

 Astrcea harhadensis Duncan. 

 Astrcea radiata Lam., var. intermedia Duncan. 

 Astrcea costata Duncan. 

 Rhodaraa irregularis Duncan. 

 Alveopora dcedala Blainv., var. regularis Duncan. 

 Alveopora microscopica Duncan. 

 Alveopora fenestrata Dana. 



Of these the species Alveopora dadala Blainv. is common to the 

 tuffs and to the Antigua Formation. The corals collected by Pro- 

 fessor Spencer were referred to Dr. T. Wayland Vaughan for deter- 

 mination, who reported the following list: 



Trochosmilia n. sp. 



Stylophora sp. 



Stephanocoenia sp. 



■\Astrocainia ornata Ed. and H. 



Brachyphyllia sp. 



*Orbicella (Astrcea) crassolamellata (Duncan). 



^Orbicella cellulosa (Duncan). 



*Orbicella endothecata (Duncan). 



Orbicella sp. 



Symphyllia n. sp. 



■\Astroria polygonalis Duncan. 



Oroseris n. sp. 



■\*Alveopora regidaris Duncan. 



Porites n. sp. 



Of these species, the ones marked with an asterisk (*) are in 

 Duncan's list from the white Antigua limestone, and the ones 

 marked with a dagger (f) are found in Duncan's list of the corals 

 in the Nugent collection from the tuffs. Dr. Vaughan recognizes 

 eight species not in Duncan's list. One species is common to the 

 tuffs and the white limestone (f*). As Spencer remarks, this 



Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. London, Vol. XIX, 1863, p. 410. 




^00 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



finding of the same species in both the tuffs and the white limestone 

 would point to their forming really but one geological unit, "although 

 characterized by great changes in the physical conditions during the 

 accumulation of the system." What has been said of the gradual 

 passage of the upper shales and tuffs into the marls and their apparent 

 ■conformability point to these formations forming one geological 

 unit. As to the age of the corals examined by Dr. Vaughan, he 

 notes that the coral fauna of the Antigua formation "is identical 

 with that of the lower beds of the upper Oligocene formation of 

 southwestern Georgia." 



The mollusks collected by Spencer were referred to Dr. Dall, who 

 afterwards determined one of the forms as Peden (Chlamys) anguil- 

 lensis Guppy, and described one as Peden (Plagiodenium) gahhi 

 Dall, referred to below in the list of species in the collection made by 

 me in Antigua. 



Professor Gregory,^- lists two species of echinoids sent to him by 

 Mr. Forrest, and these are also among the species collected by me in 

 Antigua. They are, as given by Gregory, Echinanthus concavus 

 (Cott.) and Echinanthus antillarum (Cott.). With the exceptions of 

 the two Pectens noted above, as determined by Dr. Dall, no mollusks 

 appear to have been recorded from this Antigua white limestone, 

 so that the few which I was able to secure will help to fix the age of 

 the formation. The limestones in some places carry many species 

 of Pectens, and as these are frequently determinable even in frag- 

 ments, more attention was given to collecting them than to corals, 

 foramenifera, etc. Although difficult to extract from the rock, I 

 was fortunate enough to obtain five known species or varieties of 

 Oligocene Pectens as well as two new species of this genus, and a new 

 species of oyster, a Turritella, and six or seven species of echinoids. 

 These, with the corals that have been determined as Oligocene, will 

 serve to confirm the age of the formation. The list of species col- 

 lected from* this Antigua formation is given below. 



Species collected from the Antigua Formation. 

 Diplothecanthus concavus (Cott.). 



Clypeasier concavus Cott., 1875.— Cotteau, Kongl. Sv. Vet. Akad. Hand- 



lingar, B. 13, No. 6, p. 16, pi. II, figs. 4-8. ^ , c, t , 



Echinanthus concavus (Cott.).— Gregory, Quart. Jour. Geol. boc. London, 

 Vol. LI (1895), p. 295. 



This is the commonest echinoid in the Antigua white limestone, 

 " Gregory, Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. London, Vol. LI, 1895, p. 295. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



601 



and was found in great numbers at Hodge's Bay and along the 

 shores at Willoughby Bay, and also commonly at High Point. 



Diplothecanthus antillarum (Cott.). 



Clypeaster antillarum Cott., 1875.— Cotteau, loc. cit., p. 15, pi. II, figs. 1-3. 

 Echinanthus antillarum (Cott.).— Gregory, loc. cit., p. 295. 

 Not Echinanthus antillarum Cott., 1875.— Cotteau, loc. cit., p. 2b, pi. IV, 

 figs. 9-12. 

 Less common than D. concavus (Cott.), this large species was 

 found at Willoughby Bay only. 



Sismondia antillarum Cott. 



Sismondia antillarum Cott., 1875.— Cotteau, loc. cit., p. 17, pi. Ill, figs. 1-4. 



A small species found only at Willoughby Bay. 



Schizaster clevei Cott. 



Schizaster clevei Cott., 1875.— Cotteau, loc. cit., p. 29, pi. V, figs. 7, 8. 

 A rather small specimen which probably belongs to this species 

 was collected at Willoughby Bay. It may prove to be new. 



Echinolampas anguillae Cott. 



Echinolampas anguillce Cott., 1875.— Cotteau, loc. cit., p. 24, pi. IV, figs. .5-8. 

 A single example of this species was collected at Willoughby Bay. 

 Metalia sp. indet. 



Fragments of two additional species, one probably belonging to 

 the genus Metalia and the other to Ewpatagus, were collected, some at 

 Hodge's Point and some at Willoughby Bay. While several frag- 

 ments of each species were collected, none are in sufficiently perfect 

 condition to describe. One specimen from Hodge's Bay is a frag- 

 ment of a very large species, but somewhat less than one-third of the 

 test is represented. 

 Pecten (.ffiquipecten) oxygonum Sowb. 



Pecten oxygonum Sowb.— Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. London, VI, 1849, p. 52. 

 This is the species which Gabb has determined as belonging to this 

 unfigured species of Sowerby; the specimens collected agree perfectly 

 with those determined by Gabb as belonging to this species in his 

 specimens from Santo Domingo (now in the A. N. S. P. collection). 

 It was collected at Hodge's Bay. 

 Pecten oxygonum optimum B. and P. 



Pecten oxygonum optimum B. and P.— Brown and Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. P., 



1912, p. 511, pi. XXIII (numbered XXIV), fig. 2. 

 Pecten paranensis d 'Orb.— Gabb., Journ. A. N. S. P., VIII, p. 347, pi. 45, 

 fig. 24. Not of d'Orbigny, Voy. Amer. Merid. Palseont, p. 132. 



This variety of P. oxygonum^ described in 'Tauna of the Gatun 

 Formation, Isthmus of Panama, II," a year ago, is based upon a 

 40 




602 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



specimen referred by Gabb to P. paranensis d'Orb. It was found at 

 Willoughby Bay, several specimens being taken. Gabb's specimen 

 came from the Reventazon River, Costa Rica, and not, as noted by 

 Dall, from Santo Domingo. 



Pecten (Chlamys) anguillensis Guppy. Plate XVIII, figs. 4, 6, 7, 8. 



Pecten anguillensis Guppy. — Proc. Sci. Asso. Trinidad, 1867, p. 175, figured 

 in Geol. Mag. Decade, II, Vol. I, 1874, pi. XVIII, fig. 24. 



This species was the commonest Pecten in the Antigua limestone, 



and is recorded as having been brought from Antigua by Spencer 



(see Dall, "Tertiary Fauna of Florida," p. 715). It was collected by 



me at Wetherill's, Hodge's Bay, and Willoughby Bay. It was 



particularly plentiful at Wetherill's Bay, but few specimens could 



be detached entire from the rock surfaces. The figure given by 



Guppy does not show the secondary radial striation, and is thus 



misleading, but the species may readily be recognized by its 10-11 



ribs, much fewer than in the other fossil Pectens of Antigua. Its 



living representatives, probably descendants in one case, are P. 



antillarum Recluz of Guadaloupe and other islands of the West 



Indies, and P. luculentus Reeve of North Australia. 



Pecten (.ffiquipecten) thetidis Sowb. 



Peclen thetidis Sowb.— Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc, VI, 1849, p. 52. 



Pecten thetidis Sowb. — Gabb, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, new series, XV, p. 256. 



This species was collected at Hodge's Bay, and agrees well with 



specimens so named by Gabb in his Santo Domingo collection in 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. It was fairly 



common; did not become silicified so commonly as the last species, 



and commonly acquired a black color on exposure to the weather. 



The species is small, evenly ribbed, and seems to belong to the first 



of the two varieties mentioned by Gabb. 



Pecten (Plagioctenium) gabbi Dall. 



Pecten (Plagioctenium) gabbi Dall, Tertiary Fauna of Florida," p. 717, pi. 

 29, fig. 3. Not Pecten paranensis d'Orb., as cited by Gabb. — Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d series, VIII, p. 347. 



This species is represented by one entire valve and several more 

 or less well-preserved fragments of valves from Willoughby Bay, 

 and, while it does not agree exactly with Dall's figure, it does agree 

 with his description of P. gabbi Dall. The figure is from a specimen 

 collected by Spencer in Antigua. The specimen referred to Pecten 

 paranensis d'Orb. by Gabb was from Reventazon River, Costa Rica, 

 not from Santo Domingo, as stated by Dall. As already noted, this 

 Costa Rica specimen is the P. oxygonum optimum B. and P., and does 



" Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci., Ill, p. 715. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 603 



not at all resemble this Antigua species. But while Dall's figure of 

 Spencer's Antigua specimen is not exactly like this species, his de- 

 scription agrees so well with the Willoughby Bay specimens that I do 

 not doubt this species is P. gabbi Dall. 

 Pecten (Amusium) antiguensis n. sp. Plate XVIII, figs. 1, 2, 3, 5. 



This large Amusium is very common in the Antigua limestone 

 on the sea beach at Wetherill's Bay and especially at Hodge's Bay. 

 Its description will be found under "Descriptions of New Species." 

 While plentiful at Hodge's Bay, the specimens were so firmly attached 

 to the rock or imbedded in it as to make it almost an impossibility 

 to extract entire, unbroken specimens. This species and the P. 

 anguillensis Guppy were especially likely to be found silicified. 

 This silicification has sometimes obliterated the secondary sculpture, 

 but in other cases has preserved it in most remarkably perfect con- 

 dition, as in some of these specimens. If it were not for this silici- 

 fication, it would be very difficult to obtain any specimens from this 

 hard, white limestone; but this alteration, in part or wholly, to silica 

 makes the specimens weather out in almost complete and perfect 

 condition. 



Pecten nugenti n. sp. Plate XIX, figs. 2, 5, 6. 



Hodge's Bay. 



Ostrea antiguensis n. sp. Plate XIX, fig. 7; plate XX, figs. 1, 5, 6. 



In some of the exposures of this limestone along the seashore, 

 notably at Hodge's Bay and at Wetherill's Bay, the hard limestone 

 contained many isolated oyster shells. Of these, the specimens 

 collected at Hodge's Bay I at first referred to Ostrea gatunensis B. and 

 P., but upon further examination I find that they are the same as 

 those collected at High Point and Wetherill's Bay. These are 

 specimens of a new species to which I have given the name of Ostrea 

 antiguensis. At Willoughby Bay a much larger species of oyster 

 was observed, perhaps 0. haitensis Sowb., but specimens could not 

 be obtained, as they were imbedded in the hard, compact limestone. 



Spondylus sp. indet. 



A single young specimen of a Spondylus was collected at High 

 Point. It seems to resemble Spondylus bostrichites Guppy, but is 

 too young and too fragmentary to be determined with certainty. 

 This shell was silicified also. 

 Turritella forresti n. sp. Plate XX, figs. 2-4, 7. 8. 



Found at Willoughby Bay by Mr. W. R. Forrest. See "Descrip- 

 tions of New Species." 




604 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV,, 



If incoherent or soft fossiliferous beds could be found in Antigua, 

 such as occur in Santo Domingo or on the Isthmus of Panama and 

 in Costa Rica, the fauna obtainable from this Antigua limestone 

 would undoubtedly be a large one. I examined the island carefully 

 for such deposits^ but none of this soft character were met with. Fur- 

 ther research may disclose such deposits, but unfortunately the tuffs 

 in which they might be found have undergone much compression 

 and they are too much altered, where they have, thus far, been found 

 to carry fossils, to give much hope of finding them fossiliferous and 

 at the same time soft. The limestone is sometimes in the form of a 

 soft marl, but even this has usually undergone alteration and the 

 fossils have been subjected to crystallization which has obliterated 

 many characters. In some cases the organic remains have been 

 dissolved and replaced by silica, or the shells have been dissolved 

 away leaving a cast of the cavity, but no mould to show the exterior 

 of the organism. The most favorable place for collecting specimens 

 to represent the fauna that was seen was the region of Willoughby 

 Bay, and from what I saw there it is evident that the fauna is a very 

 large one. 



That the igneous activity continued during the Oligocene, after 

 the deposit of these limestones, is indicated by the occurrence at 

 Crosbies of a dyke of dark andesite which has been injected into the 

 white marl and has altered it in places, the dyke itself being also 

 altered. This dyke is 15 feet wide or more, and is compact and not 

 porous. This locality at Crosbies is near the northern shore and 

 about a mile to the southwest of Hodge's Bay. Purves mentions 

 this locality, but places it on the seashore. Angular lapilli of volcanic 

 ash were found in the limestone at Hodge's Bay, indicating volcanic 

 action at this time. 



5. Hodge's Hill Calcareous Sandstone (of Spencei?). 



Professor Spencer has given this name to a calcite sandstone 

 composed of water-worn grains of coral, shell, and other calcareous 

 matter, found at Hodge's Hill in the northeastern corner of the 

 island. These beds are seen along the shore at Hodge's Bay over- 

 lying the hard Antigua limestone, and resting upon them with a very 

 fiat dip. Spencer regards this contact as unconformable, but there 

 seems to be no erosion unconformity, and the difference in dip is 

 very slight. The material has a very different appearance (as 

 regards compactness, for example) from the harder Antigua limestone 

 which it overlies, but I have no doubt that it is really a part of the 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 605 



same formation. It contained the Orbitoides antl many fragments of 

 echinoids, and furnished a recognizable Scala, referred to below. 

 Spencer^^ remarks of these sandstones that "one suspects the Hodge's 

 Hill sandstones belong to an epoch not long subsequent to that of 

 the former rocks" (Antigua limestones); a conclusion in which I 

 certainly concur. In fact, it seems more than probable that thej^ 

 are only the continuation upward of this same Antigua formation. 



6. Friar's Hill Gravels and Marls (of Spencer). 

 An undoubted unconformity, representing a break in the deposi- 

 tion of the formations lasting through the Miocene and Pliocene, 

 separates these gravels and marls from the Oligocene of the Antigua 

 formation. These deposits of Friar's Hill rest upon the eroded sur- 

 faces of the Antigua limestone, and consist, at the. base, of water- 

 worn pebbles, derived from the underlying formations; and this 

 layer of pebbles is overlaid by a compact, buff-colored marl stated 

 by Spencer to have a thickness of about 12 feet, and doubtless likewise 

 derived in large part from the underlying marl itself. The material 

 seems to be always not greatly different from the underlying marls 

 of the Oligocene, as though derived in each case from rock in the 

 immediate vicinity. Spencer, also, notes that the material does not 

 seem to have been transported to any distance. I am inclined to 

 think it should be connected with the Cassada Garden gravels as the 

 shore deposit that was formed during this depression of the island 

 when the shell beds of the Central Plain were being laid down, and 

 the Cassada Garden gravels are the current-transported materials of 

 the same general age. I have not seen these Cassada Garden gravels 

 overlying the Friar's Hill deposits, and at Cassada Garden the 

 gravels rest upon the tuffs under the Antigua formation. No fossils, 

 except those that are derived from the marls, are found in the Friar's 

 Hill deposits, but, up to at least 150 feet above sea level, the shells 

 of the next division cover the ground in the region of the Central 

 Plain. The Friar's Hill gravels, according to Spencer, occur up to 

 200 feet above sea level, while I have traced the shell deposits of the 

 Central Plain (as above stated) up to at least 150 feet above the 

 sea level. 



7. Shell Beds of the Central Plain. 



Throughout the Central Plain of Antigua, from the neighborhood 

 of St. John's to Willoughby Bay, sea shells are encountered in the soil 



14 Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. London, Vol. LVII, 1901, p. 499. 




606 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



and lying about on the surface, being brought up in every excavation 

 and digging up to, in the region of St. John's, 125 feet above sea level. 

 They are found in some places upon hills to a level of 150 feet above 

 the sea. They are not confined to the Central Plain entirely, for 

 they were seen near St. Mary's Rectory, in the volcanic part of the 

 island, at least 100 feet above sea level. In the vicinity of Willoughby 

 Bay they were seen in the soil of the Central Plain at elevations of 

 upwards of 100 feet also, but they were not noted in the soil upon the 

 high hills near the Montpelier estate in this vicinity. The species 

 were those now living in the sea surrounding the island. They occur 

 in the surface soil, but it cannot be said that there is any very recog- 

 nizable deposit which contains them. As they are in a superficial 

 deposit, this is not to be wondered at; the surface soil everywhere 

 has been disturbed for some depth on account of the cane cultivation, 

 which covers all the available cane-producing land in the island. 

 In some places these marine shells are found associated with recent 

 land shells, as has been described of the raised beaches or horizontal 

 marls of Purves, although these land shells are the species now living 

 in the places where these marine shells occur, and have come into the 

 soil much more recently than the marine shells. During the time 

 of the deposition of these shell deposits the island must have stood 

 at a level of at least 150 feet lower than at present and, in fact, have 

 been divided into two or more islands by the sea, which occupied 

 the Central Plain. Across this plain the sea must have been driven 

 by the trade winds, this wind drift making a current (during the 

 time of greatest depression) running through the Central Plain from 

 Willoughby Bay to St. John's Harbor. The excavating power of 

 this current may have had its part in the formation of these two 

 bays, and of the depressions along the coast from St. John's Harbor 

 north to Corbizon Point, such as Dickenson's Bay. The rise of tide 

 in Antigua is slight, but it must have produced a very appreciable 

 current in this central depression; and during the ebb and flow of 

 the tide, until a channel was established across the inland during the 

 time of sinking, currents due to this cause must have run in and 

 out of the bays. Even during the time of greatest submergence 

 such currents must have been formed and in their flow have had a 

 tendenc}^ to scour the bottom of the bays at either end of the central 

 depression. The currents set up by the tide or (during the time of 

 maximum submergence) by the wind drift would be strong enough 

 to produce the water-worn character observed in the Cassada Garden 

 gravels. And the appearance observed in these materials of having 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 607 



been transported a considerable distance would be explained by the 

 existence of such currents. The Cassada Garden gravels, as I saw 

 them at the type locality, occupy depressions in the general surface, 

 where they have accumulated, and they also occur as low hills or 

 mounds above the general surface. They may represent local 

 channel or even shore deposits when the sea occupied this central 

 plain. More to the east, in the bays that would be formed by such a 

 depression, the Friar's Hill gravels and marls might have been locally 

 formed. The general occurrence of marine shells up to 125-150 feet 

 above sea level, wherever either in the Central Plain or in the 

 volcanic region to the southwestern part of the island the surface 

 soil was exposed by cultivation, is a character of the geology of the 

 island that at once strikes the observer. And from this higher 

 elevation down to the sea level such occurences of sea shells are com- 

 mon all over the island. In the Central Plain the form of surface 

 characterizing a raised beach has not been preserved, but nearer the 

 sea level there are definite raised beaches, some of which were ob- 

 served by Purves and named the "horizontal marls." They no 

 doubt had an origin similar to that of the salt pond and mangrove 

 swamp deposits that are still forming. But the marine shells of the 

 older submergence were in large part or entirely the same species as 

 those of these later deposits. And since the greatest depression of 

 the island during which these shell beds of this submergence were 

 laid down, the general movement of the island has been upward. 

 Indeed, old maps like that accompanying Nugent's paper, compared 

 with present conditions, would indicate that this upward movement 

 is still going on. Evidence of the submergence is to be seen not only 

 in the marine shells found in the soil; the underground water from 

 the region of the Central Plain carries a large percentage of sodium 

 chloride. In wells in this Central Plain and in the water from 

 springs in this region the amount of sodium chloride is so high as 

 to become characterictic of the water of the region. Thus at Gam- 

 ble's Spring it amounts to 1137 parts in 100,000, as determined from 

 an analysis made in 1906, and at Gunthorpe's well, according to an 

 analysis made in 1905, the sodium chloride content rose to 1458 parts 

 per 100,000.^^ At Cassada Garden the sodium chloride content in 

 the water is much less— 390 parts per 100,000. Away from this Central 

 Plain depression the amount of sodium chloride is found to decrease, 

 and this is a characteristic of the limestone district; for instance, at 



15 "The Water Supply of Antigua," by H. A. Tempany, West Indian Bulletin, 

 Vol. XII, No. 4. 




608 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Parham, New Work, the salt in the water was only 14.7 parts per 

 100,000 in 1911. On the other hand, in the raised beach deposits 

 in the east of the island the content of sodium chloride in the water 

 is often as much as, or more than, that of the Cassada Garden well, 

 and this is doubtless true of all districts recently covered by salt 

 ponds, although they now may show no evidence of recent sub- 

 mergence. 



The marine shells found scattered through these shell beds are 

 apparently all recent species; they include many gastropods and a 

 much larger number of pelecypods. A few specimens were gathered 

 and some of the larger species simply noted. Among the gastropods 

 the large Strombus gigas L. was occasionally seen, also Melongena 

 melongena L., and Livona pica L. were often encountered. A few 

 specimens of Purpura were seen and P. deltoidea Lam. was collected, 

 as was also Bullaria occidentalis (A. Ad.) and Modulus modulus (L.). 

 The pelecypods collected include Area chemnitzii Phil., Cardium 

 muricatum L., Chione cancellata L., and two varieties of Anomalo- 

 cardia flexuosa L., but many other species were seen, especially 

 Codakia orbicularis (L.) and Codakia orbiculata Mont. A limpet, 

 Fissuridea barbadensis Gmel., was observed. Land shells, particularly 

 Bulimulus guadalupensis Brug., are plentiful in the soil mixed with 

 the marine shells, they have probably been recently introduced into 

 this deposit from forms living in the Central Plain when it was first 

 cleared and settled. 



8. Raised Beaches, Horizontal Marls of Purves. 



Along a part of the north shore of the island and also along the 

 northeast shore down to St. George's Church there are, at certain 

 places, definite horizontal deposits, consisting of marl with marine 

 and land shells often mixed together, imbedded in the deposit. These 

 have been described by Purves as the horizontal marls, and are well 

 developed in the vicinity of St. George's Church. They are not seen 

 at any great elevation above the present sea level, not more than 

 10-12 feet, and are probably old salt pond deposits. The one at 

 St. George's Church contains plentiful remains of land shells mixed 

 with marine species. Here I saw Pleurodonte formosa (Fer.) with the 

 deeper pigment bands still showing their color; although the finer 

 color pattern characterictic of the recent shell is lost. Dry)nceus 

 elongatus Bolt, was also plentiful, but the specimens of P. Jormosa 

 (Fer.) outnumbered the Drymceus about three to one. This Antigua 

 species of Pleurodonte was only known alive, to the local collectors 




1913] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 609 



from the volcanic part of the island, in St. Mary's, and is not now 

 living, so far as known, in the north of the island. I found it living 

 at Montpelier in the limestone district of the southeast extremity 

 of the island in St. Philip's Parish. I collected at St. George's 

 also the extinct Helicina named by Purves, Helicina crosbyi, which 

 appears to be a good species, not hitherto described or figured, but 

 his Succineas do not differ from the living Succinea harhadensis Guild. 

 These two Succineas found in this marl Purves has named S. boonii 

 and S. boonii var. elongata,^^ and he states that they are not now living 

 in Antigua, but they seem to me to be simply variations of the living 

 S. barbadensis Guild, which is found living everywhere in the limestone 

 district. It is to be noted that these so-called extinct forms are 

 larger than the normal living forms; and also a large "semi-fossil" 

 Succinea has been collected in Santa Cruz which belongs to the same 

 species as these from the horizontal marls. The Helicina crosbyi of 

 Purves is not known in the living state in Antigua, it seems to be 

 really extinct. It is not the species found in the neighboring island 

 of Barbuda, and more closely resembles one of the Jamaica species 

 of Helicina than any known species, but, as stated, it is probably a 

 good species. It is described with other undescribed species in this 

 paper. 



The list of species given by Purves of the land shells found in these 

 marls includes Cistula antiguensis Shutt., now living at Wetherill's 

 and near Montpelier, that is, at the northwest and at the southeast 

 corners of the island, but not seen living elsewhere; and also Subulina 

 octona Brug., found everywhere. The only really extinct form is the 

 Helicina crosbyi. None of the marine species observed are extinct, and 

 all are still living about the shores of the island. Such a deposit as 

 this one at St. George's (and similar ones are known along the north- 

 east and north shore to Boone's Point) was probably formed in much 

 the same way as the present salt ponds. It was at one time a 

 shallow bay, the mouth of which was cut off by the growth of man- 

 groves, and it thus became a lagoon. Into this lagoon, the washings 

 from the hills brought down the land shells that cover the ground, 

 even at present. This part of the island must have been grown up 

 in "bush" similar to the vegetation that now covers Barbuda, 

 in which bush Pleurodonte formosa, Helicina crosbyi, Cistida 

 antiguensis, Drymceus elongatus, Bulimulus guadalupensis, and other 

 land shells lived; and probably also the water of the lagoon, as it 



1® The authority placed after these species (Nob.) is a contraction for nobis and 

 means simply Purves. 




610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



dried up, became in places fresh, so that fresh-water forms could 

 live in it and become mixed with the already deposited marine forms 

 and the land forms. The wells near this St. George's locality show 

 much sodium chloride in the water, as though it might have passed 

 through a salt-pond stage. Such salt-pond deposits may have formed 

 during the last stages of the rising of the island from the submergence 

 at the time of the deposit of the shell layers in the Central Plain, 

 already noted. Salt ponds now occur along the west coast of the 

 island, but I did not personally observe them along the east coast; 

 these "raised beaches" are probably such deposits in the limestone 

 along the east coast. They are not likely to be of any great antiquity, 

 and are not greatly different in their origin from what is now forming 

 in the salt ponds of the western side of the island. 



9. Salt Pond and Mangrove Swamp Deposits. 



As just noted above, these deposits are characteristic of certain 

 places on the western shore line, from Corbizon Point to the vicinity 

 of St. Mary's, Old Road. They are shallow bays that are gradually 

 filling up. They are seen in all stages of development, for instance 

 in the region of the head of Five Islands Bay and between this and 

 St. John's Harbor. Salt pond deposits exist about a mile beyond 

 the Union Sugar Mill. Evidently here a connection existed at no 

 very distant time between Five Islands Bay and St. John's Harbor, 

 and, indeed, upon Nugent's map this district is represented as a 

 swamp. This same map shows a bay open to the sea east of the 

 stretch of beach between Dry Hill and Corbizon Point, where a 

 salt pond now exists; and open water on the north side of St. John's 

 Harbor where a salt pond is now forming. Some ten such salt ponds 

 are shown upon this Nugent map from Ships Stern (at the entrance 

 of St. John's Harbor) to St. Mary's, Old Road. These shallow bays 

 are first cut off from the sea by the growth of mangroves and such 

 plants as can exist in presence of the salt water; a fringe of such 

 mangroves near the mouth of the bay becomes a place for deposition 

 of sand and other inorganic matter washed up by the waves, and a 

 sand tract forms, cutting off the mouth of the bay. This bar grad- 

 ually grows until the salt water only reaches in to the pond in time of 

 high wind or tide. The water in the pond becomes brackish from the 

 surface drainage getting into it, and the salt-water forms living 

 in it, when freely open to the sea, are killed off, giving place to 

 brackish-water and finally to fresh-water forms, if the pond continues 

 to exist so long. When such a pond is near higher ground, the 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 611 



washing from the hills carries land shells into the pond, and these 

 are mingled with the salt-water and brackish-water forms. But in 

 many cases, the swamp water becomes so foul during the change 

 from salt to fresh that no brackish-water forms can live in it. Appar- 

 ently, too, the change is rapid in some cases and no brackish-water 

 forms migrate in. The shallow ponds become swamps and finally, 

 draining to the sea, dry up completely and form level stretches 

 which are occupied by the "bush," and eventually by cultivations 

 of some kind. One such level stretch, formerly occupied, no doubt, 

 by one of these salt pond swamps, is now under cultivation as a 

 cocoanut plantation, near St. Mary's in the Valley. 



Along the east coast such salt ponds were not visited, and perhaps 

 they may no longer exist, but they are indicated on Nugent's map 

 as occurring at several places along the northeast coast of the island. 

 I have no doubt that the "horizontal marl" deposits in the vicinity 

 of St. George's Church have had some such history; and if the general 

 movement of the island is an upward one at present, as seems to be 

 the case, other shallow bays such as are found along this east coast 

 may develop into such salt ponds in the future. But the upward 

 movement would seem to be more characteristic of the west coast 

 than of the windward region, and the salt ponds of the west side of 

 the island are now forming and show all stages of development. 

 That such deposits must have occurred during the last emergence 

 of the island and that traces of them are still to be seen in the interior 

 (in the Central Plain, for instance) there can be little doubt. When 

 they are very shallow and dry up when in the salt stage, leaving 

 deposits of salt impregnating the surface soils, is probably indicated 

 in the large amount of salt found in the shallow surface wells in some 

 places at the present time. This salt impregnation of the soil in 

 certain parts of the Central Plain has been noted under the "shell 

 beds of the Central Plain." A local development of the same 

 ■character, due to the accumulation of salt in hollows, subsequent to 

 the last emergence of the island from the sea may be the cause of 

 the "gall spots" noted in the cane cultivations in the Central Plain 

 and eastward. These are places where the growth of the cane is 

 poor, and they are generally marked by a yellowness of the cane 

 itself. Mr. Tempany, Superintendent of Agriculture for the Leeward 

 Islands, who has made many soil and water analyses, agrees with me 

 that the gall spots are apparently places where soluble salts in the 

 soil have accumulated to a point which interferes with the growth 

 of the plants. 




612 proceedings of the academy of [nov.^ 



Descriptions of New Species. 



Helicina crosbyi n. sp. Plate XIX, figs. 1, 3, 8. 



Helicina crosbyi Purves, Bull. Mus. Roy. Hist. Nat. Belg., Vol. Ill, 1884, 

 p. 310. Name only. No description or figure. 



Shell depressed, conic, of about four and one-half whorls, marked 

 by growth-lines, periphery somewhat keeled up to the last whorl, 

 where it becomes rounded. Outer lip much thickened and heavy, 

 the inner lip expanding and covering the umbilicus with a heavy 

 callus. The thickened outer lip rises abruptly from the last whorl 

 in a ridge, which continues to beyond the columella and forms the 

 border of the heavy callus of the inner Yvp, but this elevation of the 

 lip dies away and the callus of the inner lip thins down until it reaches 

 the level of the base of the last whorl. Slope of the spire even, the 

 sutures not depressed, spire somewhat convex. Operculum unknown. 



Alt. 7.7 mm., cham. 11 mm. Types A. N. S. P. Collection No. 

 109,109. 



This species was named by Purves H. crosbyi, but apparently 

 never described nor figured. It is easily identified a's the species 

 referred to by M. Purves, as it occurs fossil in the "horizontal marls'* 

 at several points noted by him, but is unknown in the living state 

 and appears to be extinct. The "semi-fossil" shells are entirely 

 without pigment, so that what colors the original shell possessed must 

 remain unknown. The form of the heavy callus and the great 

 thickening of the outer lip which characterize this species recall the 

 lip and callus of the Jamaican Helicina neritella angulata C. B. Ad., 

 which, however, differs from this species in having the angulation 

 of the periphery continued on the last whorl out to the lip. 



The specimens were collected at St. George's Church and at Hodge's 

 Bay, Antigua. Pleistocene. 

 Scala (Sthenorhytis) antiguensis n. sp. Plate XX, fig. 9. 



Shell turbinate, of about five whorls, rapidly enlarging; the suture 

 impressed, whorls rounded, crossed by about sixteen varices which 

 are acute edged and rise abruptly from the whorl. The intervarical 

 spaces are crossed by five raised revolving cords with a secondary 

 sculpture of fine, somewhat irregularly spaced revolving lines and 

 crossed by radial lines parallel to the varices. This secondary 

 sculpture which covers the varices also, is best observed with a lens. 

 From the excavated form of the base of the shell, it is probable that 

 the mouth was circular, but this portion of the shell is imperfect. 

 Alt. 30 mm., diam. 19 mm. From the Hodge's Hill limestone 

 (Antigua formation), Hodge's Bay, Antigua. Oligocene. 



Type A. N. S. P. Collection, invertebrate fossils. No. 1,645. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 613 



Turritella forresti n. sp. Plate XX, figs. 2, 3, 4, 7, 8. 



Shell elongate, slowly tapering, of many whorls, with a raised 

 sculpture of three major spiral ridges, of which the one towards the 

 apex is double and beaded, the next one is at first single, but later 

 becomes double and beaded, while the third is, in the younger stage, 

 not beaded. Between these major revolving spiral ridges are finer 

 revolving spirals, about five between the first and second major 

 spirals, and the same number between the second and third major 

 spirals, with a like number from the third spiral to the suture. These 

 secondary spirals may become knotty and beaded when crossed by 

 the diagonal growth lines, and the doubling of the major spirals 

 comes from one of these minor spirals becoming enlarged on that side 

 of the major spiral towards the apex. The suture becomes depressed 

 by the shell being excavated above the suture or on the basal side of 

 the whorl. A fragment of 14 mm. tapers from 4 mm. to 2 mm. in 

 six Avhorls. A larger fragment tapers from 6 mm. to 4 mm. in a 

 length of 13 mm. 



From Willoughby Bay, collected by Mr. W. R. Forrest, in whose 

 honor the species is named. Antigua limestone, Oligocene. Only 

 small fragments were obtained, but these show the scuplture well 

 and the species will undoubtedly be easily recognizable from these 

 specimens. Types A. N. S. P. Collection, invertebrate fossils. No. 

 1,644. 

 Pecten (Amusium) antiguensis n. sp. Plate XVIII, figs, l, 2, 3, 5. 



Inequivalve, shell orbicular, rather thin, convex; the surface cov- 

 ■ered with a fine concentric sculpture, following the growth lines; 

 with about 13 radial ribs running from the beaks, where they are very 

 pronounced, and, in one valve, apparently disappearing towards the 

 margin, but in the other valve continued as undulations of the shell 

 to the margin. The interior of the shell has radial ribs extending 

 to the margin, where the adjacent pairs of ribs contract and are then 

 seen to be paired, but otherwise seeming to be equally spread as in 

 P. (Amusium) hjonii Gabb, from which this species differs in having 

 a strong concentric sculpture (wanting in P. lyonii), and also in the 

 external radial ribbing being continued for a greater distance from 

 the beak than in Gabb's species. The species is likewise related to 

 P. sol B, and P., but this latter has shorter radial external ribs and the 

 internal ribs are paired. The ears are separated from the rest of 

 the valve by a depression, as is the case in P. sol. Length and 

 iieight about equal — 70-75 mm. 



Hodge's Bay and Wetherill's Bay in the Antigua limestone, with 




614 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.^ 



Orbitoides, etc., Oligocene. Cotypes A. N. S. P. Collection, inverte- 

 brate fossils, No. 1,648. 



Pecten nugenti n. sp. Plate XIX, figs. 2, 5, 6. 



Shell inequivalve, oval in outline, with 17 distinct rounded radial 

 ribs (and probably 2 additional less distinct ones) separated by 

 narrower interspaces, the whole exterior surface covered by concen- 

 tric growth lines which are raised and produce a nearly microscopic 

 sculpture extending equally over ribs and interspaces. Internally 

 smooth, except near the margin, where raised ribs are seen, occupying 

 the intervals between the raised external ribs. On the flatter valve, 

 externally the raised ribs are equal in width with the intervals between 

 them, and the concentric sculpture, while extending over ribs and 

 interspaces, is stronger in the intervals between the ribs. Ears 

 moderate, apparently not ribbed. The specimens vary considerably 

 in size; the one figured, a small specimen, measures: length 41 mm. 

 by height 36 mm. Others were much larger, attaining a length of 55 

 mm. or more. 



Named in honor of Dr. Christopher Nugent, the first to publish 

 an account of the geology of Antigua. Collected at Hodge's Bay. 

 Cotypes, A. N. S. P. Collection, invertebrate fossils, No. 1,656. 

 Ostrea antiguensis n. sp. Plate XIX, fig. 7; plate XX, figs, l, o, 6. 



Shell ovate or nearly orbicular, thick and dense, externally radially 

 plicate or sometimes nearly smooth, the plications on the lower, 

 deep valve begin at the beak and are usually seven in number, of 

 which a group of five ridges is separated from the other two by a 

 broad depression; the ridges sharp and spinose or obtuse and even, 

 the furrows or depressions smooth and rounded. Hinge moderate, 

 the shell rapidly widening beyond the end of the hinge line, the 

 plications usually dying away as the margin of the adult shell is 

 reached, and this margin in the lower valve being turned up abruptly 

 for one-half inch or more, making a cup-shaped valve. The upper 

 or flat valve has the margin strongly reflexed to fit the upturned 

 margin of the deep valve. The muscle impression is distinct, more 

 strongly impressed in the case of the deep valve; situated on the left 

 and nearer to the beak than to the opposite margin. The lower 

 valve is more or less excavated internally, the upper valve is flat. 

 When strongly plicate and even spinose, this species closely resembles 

 0. gatunensis B. and P., except that this latter species has not the heavy 

 shell of 0. antiguensis nor has it the turned-up margin. 0. haitensis 

 Sowb. has the rugose exterior of this species in its strongly plicate 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 615 



form, but while the shell is heavy, it lacks the upturned edge of 

 0. antiguensis. Length 85 mm., alt. 80 mm., depth of lower valve 

 30 mm. Cotypes, A. N. S. P. Collection, invertebrate fossils, Nos. 

 1,653 and 1,655. 



In size and plication 0. antiguensis varies largely, but of the 

 specimens collected the longest shells do not run far from 90 mm. in 

 altitude. As regards plication, some are nearly smooth and some 

 are strongly rugose, even in some cases spinose, but all may be 

 distinguished by the broad furrow which runs across the exterior of 

 the lower valve about opposite to the muscle impression and which 

 divides the rugse into a group of five and one of two. The species 

 differs also from all other closely related American species by the 

 upturned margin of this lower valve and the correspondingly reflexed 

 margin of the upper or flat valve. 



Explanation of Plates XVIII, XIX, XX. 



Plate XVIII. — Fig. 1 . — Peden (Amusium) antiguensis n. sp. View of the exterior 

 of a silicified specimen, showing some of the original shell surface. Natural 

 size. 



Fig. 2.— Peden (Amusium.) antiguensis n. sp. Interior view of shell. Nat- 

 ural size. 



Fig. 3. — Peden {Amusium) antiguensis n. sp. Exterior, showing hinge, of a 

 non-silicified specimen, partly imbedded in the rock. Natural size. 



Fig. 4. — Peden {Chlamys) anguillensis Gupp3^ Exterior of a siUcified 

 specimen, in which the original surface was destroyed by the siUcification. 

 Natural size. 



Fig. .5. — Peden (Amusium) antiguensis n. sp. Detail of a portion of speci- 

 men 1. X 3. 



Fig. 6 — Peden (Chlamys) anguillensis Guppy. Exterior of an unsilicified 

 specimen, showing the distinctive secondary ribbing. Natural size. 



Fig. 7. — Peden (Chlamys) anguillensis Guppy. Interior of valve. Natural 

 size. 



Fig. 8— Peden (Chlamys) anguillensis Guppy. Exterior of a silicified 

 specimen, showing traces of the secondary ribbing. Natural size. 



Plate XIX. — Fig. 1. — Helicina crosbyi n. sp. Mouth view of a specimen. X 2. 

 Fig. 2. — Peden nugenti n. sp. Interior view of the shell, showing the hinge. 



Figure slightly above natural size. 

 Fig. 3. — Helicina crosbyi n. sp. Under side of shell, showing the heavy 



umbilical callus and thickened lip. X 2. 

 Fig. 4. — Orbitoides manteUi Mort. The figure shows a fragment of the rock 



with two specimens of this large species. About natural size. 

 Fig. 5. — Peden nugenti n. sp. Exterior aspect of the deeper valve. Very 



slightly enlarged. 

 Fig. 6. — Peden nugenti n. sp. Enlarged view of a fragment of the exterior 



of the shell, showing the concentric secondary sculpture. X 3. 

 Fig. 7. — Ostrea antiguensis n. sp. Interior of shell, showing muscle impres- 

 sion and hinge. Natural size. 

 Fig. 8. — Helicina crosbyi n. sp. Lateral view of shell, showing the raised 



and thickened outer part of the lip. X 2. 



Plate XX. — Fig. 1. — Ostrea antiguensis n. sp. Exterior of the deep valve of a 

 nearly smooth specimen. The figure is shghtly above the natural size. 

 Figs. 2-4. — Turritella forresli n. sp. X 3. 




616 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Fig 5. — Ostrea antiguensis n. sp. Exterior of the deep valve of a rugose 

 specimen. Slightly enlarged above natural size. 



Fig. t). — Ostrea antiguensis n. sp. Interior of the flat valve, partly imbedded 

 in the limestone. This specimen shows the strongly reHexed margin of 

 this valve. The concentric markings are due to partial sihcification. 



Figs. ?, 8. — Turritella forresti n. sp. X 3. 



Fig. 9. — Scala {Sthenorhytis) antiguensis n. sp. Natural size. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 617 



December 2. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 



Forty-eight persons present. 



The death of Alfred Russel Wallace, a correspondent, November 

 7, was announced. 



The following was unanimously adopted: 



Whereas, The Academy has been informed by the Council of the 

 receipt and adoption of a final report on the Centenary Celebration 

 and the discharge of the Committee having charge thereof, 



Resolved, That the Academy, approving of the action of the 

 Council, desires to express its obligation to the Committee and to 

 record on the minutes its thanks for the entirely adequate and 

 satisfactory discharge of its duties, resulting in a record of achieve- 

 ment which cannot fail to be an incentive to those who will celebrate 

 the second centenary of the Academy in 2012. 



Dr. Edgar T. Wherry made an illustrated report on the Twelfth 

 International Geological Congress. (No abstract.) 



Another report on the same subject was read from Prof. R. A. F. 

 Penrose, Jr. 



December 16. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers 

 under the following titles: 



"The anatomy of two Brazilian land shells, Anostoma depressum 

 and Tomigerus clausus," by Harold Heath (November 24). 



"Data on the orthopteran faunistics of Eastern Pennsylvania and 

 Southern New Jersey," by Henry Fox (December 3, 1913). 



The following were ordered to be printed: 



41 




618 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



THE LAND AND FRESH- WATER MOLLUSKS OF THE STANFORD EXPEDITION 

 TO BRAZIL. 



BY FRED BAKER, M.D. 



It was my good fortune to accompany the Stanford Expedition 

 to Brazil, Dr. J. C. Branner, Director, in the smnmer of 1911, and I 

 have been requested by Dr. Branner to report on the land and fresh- 

 water mollusks. For apparently good reasons, the report on the 

 marine mollusks will occupy a later paper. 



Mollusks were taken at nearly all points visited by the members 

 of the Expedition, and a large number were sent to me after my 

 return to the United States by the Goeldi Museum of the cit}' of 

 Para, through the kindness of the Acting Director, Dr. Emilia 

 Snethlage, and from the Museu Rocha in the city of Ceara, through 

 the kindness of Mr. Francisco Dias da Rocha, who owns this museum 

 and who deserves great credit for his scientific spirit and untiring 

 work in bringing together this very valuable collection. I beg to 

 acknowledge this great courtesy, as well as the assistance rendered 

 to me personally and to the other members of the Expedition during 

 our stay in Para and Ceara by these well-known Brazilian naturalists. 



After about four months spent in northeastern Brazil, six members 

 of the Expedition returned to the United States, leaving Mr. W. M. 

 Mann and the writer. We made the trip up the Amazon and Rio 

 Negro to Manaos. There we met Mr. R. H. May, of the contracting 

 firm of May, Jekyll & Randolph, who were then completing the 

 Madeira-Mamore R. R. around the falls of the Madeira and Mamore 

 Rivers, to give access to the rich rubber country on the navigable 

 waters of the tributaries of the Madeira River system and to furnish 

 a feasible route into Bolivia from the north. On his invitation, 

 we went aboard one of their steamers clown to Itacoatiara, below 

 the mouth of the Madeira River, thence up the Madeira to Porto 

 Velho, the starting point of the railroad. At this point we were 

 tendered all the facilities of the road and we were the guests of the 

 contractors for about two months, travelling over the whole line to 

 the Guajara-Assu Falls, the upper falls of the Mamore River, just 

 above which point navigable water is reached and the terminus of 

 the road is to be located. On this portion of the trip we crossed 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 619 



the river into Bolivia on three occasions. I wish here to extend 

 my most sincere thanks to Messrs. May, Jekyll & Randolph for their 

 courtesy, which made the work done on this part of the trip possible, 

 and to the many employes of the Madeira-Mamore Co. who rendered 

 us assistance and personal courtesies in very large measure during 

 this most delightful journey. 



By a curious difference in the time of the dry season of the different 

 districts visited, all the work of the Expedition was done during the 

 dry season in each district, except that the rainy season was just 

 beginning as we left the Madeira River and during our last short 

 stay in Para. Everywhere we found shells sestivating, and it is 

 probable that this accounts for the somewhat limited list of species 

 actually taken by the members of the Expedition and for the large 

 number of dead shells which made up much of the collection. 



The ground covered by the Expedition and by the locations from 

 which the mollusks here reviewed wer^ taken can be divided easily 

 and naturally into two distinct districts, the second of which, on 

 account of the great extent of the country included and because a 

 distance of nearly five hundred miles intervenes between the two 

 nearest locations, can be again divided conveniently into two dis- 

 tricts. The first, northeastern Brazil, includes about all of the 

 States of Rio Grande do Norte and Ceara; it is scantily timbered 

 as a rule, dry, with an average rainfall of from ten to twenty inches, 

 and a climate not unlike that of Southern California, Arizona, and 

 New Mexico. The coast region is generallj^ low, with a few low ranges 

 of mountains, the interior higher. In this district are included 

 Natal, Pirangy, Papary, Estremoz, Ceara-Mirim, Taipii, Baixa 

 Verde, Limoeira, and the Mossoro region, Ceara, Maranguape ]Moun- 

 tain, Mongiiba, Buturite, Quixada, and Camocim. 



The other main district, with Maranhao on the outskirts, includes 

 all other locations mentioned in this paper, beginning with Para 

 and ascending the Amazon and its tributaries, the Tocantins, Jary, 

 Jamauchim, Maccurii, Tapajoz, Madeira, Mamore, and various other 

 small streams. This district is an immense, low, alluvial plain, 

 almost universally heavily timbered, in most of which there is a long 

 rainy season, the annual rainfall averaging up towards a hundred 

 inches in many years, filling many streams more than bank full and 

 producing great sloughs and lakes. Naturally, the climates of the 

 two districts are radically different, although a considerable number 

 of species overlap. As noted above, it is convenient to divide this 

 district into two at any point between the mouth of the Tapajoz 




620 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



River and Itacoatiara, leaving in the first subdistrict Maranhao, 

 Para, and all points on the lower Amazon and its tributaries up to, 

 and including, the Tapajoz and including in the second subdistrict 

 Itacoatiara on the Amazon and all of the Madeira River and its 

 tributaries. 



The shells here reported represent 43 genera, 93 species, and 20 

 subspecies, of which 33 species and 12 subspecies seem to be new. 



The types of all of the species and subspecies are deposited in the 

 collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and 

 cotypes of many of them will be deposited in the collection of the 

 Leland Stanford Jr. University at Palo Alto, California, and in the 

 Museu Goeldi at Para, Brazil. 



In the following list, the species and subspecies are considered 

 with reference to the three districts herein marked out, column 

 one representing the first district, including Rio Grande do Norte 

 and Ceara; column two representing the second district, extending 

 from Maranhao to the Rio Tapajoz and its tributaries, and column 

 three representing the third district, including Itacoatiara and the 

 whole of the Madeira River System. 



Index of Species and Subspecies with General Locations. 



Species and Subspecies. 



Ampullaria bridgesii Rve 



" crassa Swains 



" figulina Spix 



" ffigas Spix 



" insularum Orb 



" lineata Spix '... 



" nobilis Rve 



" peristomata Orb 



" testudinea Rve 



Anodontites bartschi n. sp 



" dalli n. sp 



" ensiformis Spix 



" trapesialis anserinus Spix 



Anostoma depressum Lam 



" octodentatmn F. de Wald 



Bifidaria servilis Gld 



Bulimulus erectus Rve , 



" pubescens Moric 



" rochai n. sp 



" " suturalis n. subsp.... 



" " taipuensis n. subsp.. 



" tenuissimus Orb , 



Coecilioides gundlachi Pfr 



Castalia ambigua Lam 



" quadrilatera Orb 



12 3 



XXX 



X 

 X X 



X X 



X X 

 X X 



X 

 ...:. X X 



X X 



X 



X 

 X 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X 



XXX 

 X 



X X 



X 



Page. 



660 

 659 

 659 

 659 

 660 

 660 



668 

 667 

 667 

 667 

 643 

 644 

 646 

 635 

 635 

 636 

 637 

 636 

 635 

 646 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



621 



Species and Subspecies. 



Corona regalis Hupe 



" regina Fer 



Diplodon kelseyi n. sp 



" obsolescens n. sp 



Doryssa bullata Lea 



" cachoeiroe n. sp 



" " sulcata n. suhsp 



" globosa n. sp 



" heathi n. sp 



" iheringi n. sp 



" inconspicua Brot 



" rex Pils. n. sp 



" " regina Pils. n. subsp 



" starksi n. sp 



" transversa jaryensis Pils. n. subsp 



" " var. neax Macapa Moric 



" " tapajosensis Pils. n. subsp.. 



" tucunareensis n. sp 



Drymceus branneri n. sp 



" expansus Pfr 



" linnstoma suprapundatus n. 



Entodlud jcki/llr n. sp 



EuglaiiiliiKi slrinla Miiller .' 



EupiTd I nil let. ,s]) 



Gundldchid hdl:-rri Pils. n. sp 



Guppijd nidiji II. sp 



Happui sntihlagei n. sp 



Helicina guajarana n. sp 



" lirifera Ancey 



" schereri Ti. sp 



Hemisinus brasiliensis Moric 



" flammeus n. sp 



" " elongatus n. subsp. 



Hyria corrugata exasperata Sby 



" jamauchimensis n. sp 



Idiopyrgus pilsbryi n. sp 



Leptinaria imperforata n. sp 



" lamellata P. & M 



" " concentrica Rve 



" perforata n. sp 



Littoridina manni n. sp 



Marisa cornu-arietis Linn 



Odontostomus inflatus Wagner x 



" " costulatus Ancey x 



" " fasciatus P. & M ! x 



" " mar angimpensis n. subsp | x 



" scabreUus cylindricus n. subsp. 



beckianum Pfr 



gracile Hutton 



" odogyrmn Pfr 



" opella Pils. & Van 



Orthalicus sultana Dillw 



Oxystyla pulchella Spix 



" " prototypus Pils 



Physa rivalis M. & R 



Planorbis anatinus Orb 



Page. 



639 

 639 

 665 

 666 

 651 

 655 

 656 

 651 

 653 

 654 

 650 

 650 

 651 

 652 

 649 

 650 

 649 

 656 

 637 

 637 

 638 

 630 

 627 

 663 

 663 

 632 

 629 

 626 

 625 

 625 

 657 

 657 

 656 



658 

 646 

 645 

 645 

 645 

 658 

 661 

 640 

 641 

 64 i 

 641 

 642 

 644 

 644 

 644 

 645 

 639 

 638 

 638 

 661 




622 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Species and Subspecies. 



Planorbis cimex Moric 



" cultratus Orb 



" depressissirnus Moric 



" guadeloupensis Sby 



" peregrinus Orb 



" stramineus Dkr 



Plekocheilus piyiiadinus Orb 



Prisodon obliquus Schum 



" syrrnatophorus Meusch 



Psadara derbyi cearana n. subsp 



SegiiK nfiiKi pn/xiri/oisis n. sp 



Sohiriipsis najiU m I_)ohrn 



Sin/itd.ri'^ (ihinui(n.'<i.s n. sp 



comboidt'8 Icevigata Orb 



" cookeana n. sp 



" deformis Fer 



" deplanchei Drouet 



" " quixadaensis n. sp. 



'■ subregularis Pfr 



Strobilops brasiliana n. sp 



Strophocheilus cantagallanus Rang 



" maximus Sby 



" oblongus Miiller 



Succinea pusilla Pfr 



Suliulina otinna Rrus 



Syxtrnj,.hiii nilnn, n. sp 



Thysiinojihord cam (iuppy 



Tomigerus clausus Spix 



'' loevis Ihering 



" pilsbryi n. sp 



rochai Ihering 



Zonitoides parana n. sp 



Totals in each (district. 



49 



52 



34 



Page. 



661 

 662 

 662 

 661 

 662 

 662 

 635 

 665 

 665 

 634 

 662 

 633 

 629 

 627 

 628 

 627 

 628 

 628 

 627 

 647 

 634 

 634 

 634 

 647 

 644 

 631 

 632 

 642 

 642 

 643 

 642 

 632 



It will be seen, therefore, that 49 species and subspecies were taken 

 in the first district, 52 in the second, and 34 in the third. The fol- 

 lowing statements show the districts in which representatives of 

 the various genera were taken. 



Twelve genera represented in the first district only: Anostoriia, 

 Bifidaria, Ccecilioides, Eupera, Idiopyrgiis, Littoridina, Odontostomus, 

 Psadara, Segmentina, Succinea, Thysanophora, Tomigerus. 



Eight genera represented in the second district only: Diplodon, 

 Doryssa, Gundlachia, Hemisinus, Marisa, Prisodon, Strobilops, 

 Zonitoides. 



Seven genera represented in the third district only: Drymceus, 

 Entodina, Guppya, OrthaUcus, Plekocheilus, Solaropsis, dystrophia. 



Five genera represented in all three districts: Ampullaria, 

 Bidimidus, Opeas, Strophocheilus, Suhulina. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 623 



Three genera represented in the first and second districts: 

 Oxystyla, Physa, Planorbis. 



Six genera represented in the second and third districts: Anodon- 

 tites, Castalia, Corona, Euglandina, Happia, Leptinaria. 



Two genera represented in the first and third districts: Helicina, 

 Streptaxis. 



Thirty-seven species and subspecies were taken in the first district 

 only; thirtj^-six species and subspecies from the second district 

 only; twenty-two subspecies from the third district only. 

 Four species were taken in all three districts. 

 Six species in the first and second districts ; six species were found 

 common to the second and third districts, and two species to the 

 first and third districts. As the collections are very incomplete, 

 it is not necessary to list the species taken in each district here, 

 but the degree of endemicity is roughly indicated by this summary. 

 A list of the locations from which the collection was taken, with 

 the latitude and longitude figured for some of the less known places 

 as accurately as it could be done from the ordinary maps, is published 

 on succeeding pages. 



In conclusion, I wish to acknowledge my great obligation to 

 Dr. Branner for inviting me to become a member of the Expedition 

 and to the other members of the party for many kindnesses; to 

 Professor F. W. Kelsey, of San Diego, California, who has prepared 

 all the photographs used in the reproductions for this paper; to 

 Dr. H. von Ihering, of Sao Paulo, Brazil, for furnishing valuable 

 papers on Brazilian moUusks; to Dr. Paul Bartsch of the National 

 Museum for comparing doubtful species of the Ampullariidce with the 

 collections of that institution, and in largest measure to Dr. H. A. 

 ' Pilsbry, of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, for a 

 very large amount of help in the determination of species of all 

 groups and for most valuable assistance in the preparation of this 

 paper. 



Locations of Stations Mentioned in this Paper. 



Natal, Lat. 5° 50' S., Long. 35° 30' W. 

 Pirangy, about 20 miles down the coast from Natal. 

 Paparj', about 30 miles southerly from Natal. 

 Estremoz, Central R. R., 17 kilometers from Natal. 

 Ceara-Mirim, Central R. R., 34 kilometers from Natal. 

 Taipu, Central R. R., 56 kilometers from Natal. 

 Baixa Verde, Central R. R., 84 kilometers from Natal. Present 

 terminus of railroad. 




624 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Carnaubinha, near head of Natal estuary. 



Jaeoeo, 7 kilometers from Ceara-Mirim. 



Limoeira, near western line of State of Rio Grande do Norte. 



Mossoro, near eastern line of State of Ceara. 



Ceara, Lat. 3° S., Long. 38° 30' W. 



Maranguape Mountain, about 20 kilometers southwest of Ceara. 



Mongiiba, Ceavd & Baturite R. R., 27 kilometers from Ceara. 



Baturite, Ceara & Baturite R. R., 100 kilometers from Ceara. 



Quixada, Ceara & Baturite R. R., 187 kilometers from Ceara. Pres- 

 ent terminus of railroad. 



Serra de Ibiapaba, State of Ceara. 



Serra de Baturite, near Baturite. 



Camocim, on coast west of Ceara. 



Para, Lat. 1° 35' S., Long. 48° 25' W. 



Island of Mexiana, on Equator, Long. 49° 30' W. 



Maranhao, Lat. 2° 30' S., Long. 44° W. 



Rio Jary, flows into Amazon from the North at a point in Lat. 1° 5' 

 S., Long. 51° 40' W. 



Parana de Almeirim, north bank of Amazon above Rio Jar^'. 



Arumanduba, Campos country in the same district. 



Baiao, Rio Tocantins, Lat. 2° 40' S., Long. 49° 30' W. 



Serra do Erere, Igarape Pucu, near Monte Alegre and the Igarape 

 Paituna are in the same general district at Lat. 2° S., Long. 

 54° W. 



Rio Jamauchim. Lat. 5° 30' S., Long. 54° 15' W. 



Tucunare, Rio Jamauchim, Lat. 4° 30' S., Long. 55° 50' W. 



Rio Iriri, Lat. 4° 5' S., Long. 54° W. 



Rio Curuc4, left side Rio Iriri, Lat. 6° 40' S., Long. 54° 20' W. 



Rio Tapajoz, Lat. 4° 30' S., Long. 55° 50' W. 



Boim e Pinhel, Lat. 2° 55' S., Long. 55° 10' W. 



Ilha de Govana, Lat. 4° 30' S., Long. 55° 50' W. 



Rio Maccuru, Lat. 1° 30' S., Long. 54° W. 



Rio Nhamunda, Fazenda Paraiso, near Faro, Lat. 2° 20' S., Long. 

 56° 45' AV. 



Itacoatiara, Lat. 3° 30' S., Long. 59° 30' W. 



Porto Velho, the lowest point on the Madeira-Mamore R. R., about 

 600 miles above the mouth of the Madeira River and 6 kilo- 

 meters below the lowest falls of the Madeira. 



Camp 33, M. & M. R. R., also called Abuna, Brazil, 219 kilometers 

 above Porto Velho. 



Camp 35, M. & M. R. R., 238 kilometers above Porto Velho. 



Camp 39, M. & M. R. R., 284 kilometers above Porto Velho. 



Camp 40, M. & M. R. R., 292 kilometers above Porto Velho. 



Camp 43, M. & M. R. R., 325 kilometers above Porto Velho. 



Camp 46, M. & M. R. R., 359 kilometers above Porto Velho. 

 Guajara-Assu Falls, 364 kilometers above Porto Velho. 

 Abuna, Bolivia, about 5 kilometers below Camp 33, on the opposite 

 side of the Madeira River. 




1913.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 625 



List of Species with Descriptions of those which seem to be 



New. 



HELIOINID^. 



Genus HELICINA Lamarck. 

 Helicina lirifera Ancey. 



Helicina lirifera Ancey, Jour, of Conch., vii, p. 96, 1892. Wagner, Con- 

 chylien Cabinet, Helicinidce, p. 286. 



A single, half-grown specimen was taken at Camp 40, ]\I. ife M. 

 R. R., and about thirty specimens, mostly dead and of various ages, 

 were taken at Camp 39. 



In his original description Ancey says, "In front scarcely noticeably, 

 or not at all descending." The largest specimens taken descend 

 positively, though not greatly, in front for about half a turn, leaving 

 the sharp keel of the preceding whorl fully exposed. I suspect that 

 Ancey 's description was based on specimens not fully matured, and 

 it seems better to add this point to the description of his species, 

 rather than create a new subspecies, inasmuch as these shells agree 

 perfectly in all other respects with his description. The mature 

 specimens have 5 whorls; no specimen with over 4| whorls fails to 

 show the characteristic drop of the last whorl. 

 Helicina schereri n. sp. PI. XXI, figs. 1, 2. 



Shell thin, imperforate, turbinate, subglobose, with slightly convex 

 sides; color yellowish to reddish bronze; apex obtuse, slightly 

 mammillate, smooth for about one whorl, then everywhere sculp- 

 tured with nearly even and evenly spaced, narrow, spiral keels with 

 broader interspaces, about seven or eight keels showing on each 

 whorl, the keels weakening and becoming more crowded and less 

 distinct on the base, but extending to the umbilical region and 

 dipping deeply into the aperture in some apparently mature speci- 

 mens; keels everywhere crossed by sharply retractive, crowded 

 growth lines which are exaggerated into distinct costulse in places 

 on the lower whorls. Whorls 4j, somewhat convex, the last sub- 

 angulate at the beginning, but becoming well rounded toward the 

 mouth, scarcely descending in front; sutures very distinct. Aper- 

 ture broadly semilunar, oblique; peristome very evenly rounded, 

 somewhat thickened and slightly expanded, but not reflected, the 

 upper extremity joining the parietal wall at an angle slightly under 

 90 degrees, the lower extremity rounding broadly into the columella; 

 columella short, nearly vertical, broadened above; parietal . wall 

 slightly convex, with a callus varying in apparently mature specimens 

 from a small band seen only deep within the mouth to a broad, thin 




626 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



layer extending for nearly a quarter turn beyond the mouth and 

 heavily thickened at the umbilical region. 



Greatest diam. 5.5, least diam. 4.75, alt. 4.5 mm. 



About forty, specimens of this very pretty species were taken 

 under dead leaves near the limestone quarries at Ceara-Mirim. 

 About a quarter were living and seemed to be astivating. A single 

 specimen of the same species ''from the State of Ceara" was sent 

 by Mr. Rocha. The species may be distinguished by its small size, 

 thin texture, and coarse spiral sculpture, and it is not related to any 

 described species. It is named for Dr. C. A. Scherer, of the Medical 

 Corps of the Madeira-Mamore R. R., who was our host at Camp 39 

 and who aided us greatly in our hunt for zoological material. 

 Helioina guajarana n. sp. Pl. XXI, fig. 3. 



Shell rather thin, imperforate, subglobose, with straight sides; 

 epidermis thin, color light yellow throughout, slightly shining; apex 

 rather acute, slightly mammillate; nepionic 1| whorls suggestive 

 of Drymmis, but with the pits placed irregularly, though somewhat 

 on spiral lines; post-nepionic whorls everywhere marked by micro- 

 scopically distinct, very strongly retractive growth lines which are 

 sharply decussated by equally protractive, fasciculated, incised 

 lines, which divide and anastomose irregularly, the growth lines 

 becoming more nearly vertical as they pass the periphery and 

 approach the umbilical region, while the incised lines become more 

 nearly spiral and less distinct. Whorls 4|, slightly convex; periphery 

 of the last whorl scarcely angulate except over the first quarter turn, 

 not descending in front; sutures distinct. Aperture subelliptical, 

 subhorizontal; peristome rather evenly rounded, thickened and 

 expanded moderately, joining the columellar base with a distinct 

 angulation; columella short, nearly vertical, spreading above into 

 the broad, thin callus which covers the slightly convex parietal wall. 



Greatest diam. 6.5, least diam. 5.25, alt. 5.75 mm. 



One living and two dead specimens of this species were taken near 

 the Guajara-Assu Falls. The species is somewhat related to the 

 larger H. bourguignatiana Ancey, but is differently colored and has a 

 less marked angle at the junction of the columella and basal lip. 

 Helicina laterculus n. ep. Pi. xxi, figs. 4, 5. 



Shell globose-depressed, rather thin, of a dull red color, smooth 

 .except for faint growth-lines. Spire low-conoidal; whorls 4^, very 

 slightly convex, the last rounded peripherally. Aperture small; 

 outer lip thin, a little expanding, and very narrowly reflected. Colu- 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 627 



mella callus rather small and coarsely pitted. Alt. 3.75, diam. 

 4.75 mm. 

 Para. 



OLEAOINID^. 



Genus EUGLANDINA Crosse and Fischer. 

 Euglandina striata (Muller). 



Helix striata Muller, Hist. Verm., II, p. 149. 



Oleacina striata (Muller), Tryon, Man. Conch. (2), I, p. .32, pi. 5, fig. 64. 



Euglandina striata (Muller j, Pilsbry, Man. Conch. (2), XIX, p. 176. 



Two dead specimens were taken at Camp 39, M. & M. R. R., and 

 two near the Guajara-Assu Falls; four living specimens taken on 

 the Island of Mexiana and a young specimen from the Rio Maccuru 

 were sent from the Goeldi Museum. 

 Euglandina n. sp. ? 



At Camp 39, M. & M. R. R., three specimens were taken which 

 seem to differ from all South American species, but which were too 

 young to warrant a name and description. 



STREPTAXID^. 



Genus STREPTAXIS Gray. 



Streptaxis deformis Ferussac. 



Helix deformis Ferussac, Hist. Xat. Moll., pi. 32, a, fig. 1. 



Streptaxis deformis Fer., Tryon, Man. Conch. (2), I, p. 74, pi. 27, fig. 10. 



Seventeen specimens were taken at Itacoatiara, only a few mature, 

 streptaxis comboides laevigata C)rbigny. 



Streptaxis comboides Orb., var. laevigata Orbigny, Voyage dans I'Amerique 

 Meridionale, Mollusques, p. 234, 



Two dead, immature specimens were taken at Abuna, Bolivia, 

 and two mature and one immature at Camp 46, M. & M. R. R. 

 This species has heretofore been known only from Orbigny's descrip- 

 tion. He procured his type of the var. Icevigata from the Mission of 

 San Jose, Chiciuitos Province, Bolivia, nearly 200 miles from these 

 locations. Our specimens are a slightly smaller race (diameter 

 S, instead of 10 mm.), with the tooth of the outer lip a little less 

 prominent than would seem to be called for by Orbigny's descrip- 

 tion, but they almost surely fall into this variety, 

 streptaxis subregularis Pfeiffer. 



Philippi Abbild. II, 13. p. 127. Trvon, Man. Conch. (2), I, p. 68, pi. 12, 

 figs. 16-18. 



One mature and two immature specimens were taken on the 

 Maranguape Mountain at an altitude of about 500 ft. and two mature 

 specimens, "from the State of Ceara, " were sent by Mr. Rocha. 




628 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeO., 



Streptaxis deplanchei Drouet. 



Streptaxis deplanchei Drouet, Moll. Guyane Fran^., 56, t. q., figs. 6-9. 

 Conchylien Cabinet, Streptaxis, XXXIII, p. 15. Man. Conch. (2), I, p. 79, 

 pi. 16, figs. 80-82. 



About eighty specimens were taken at Ceara-Mirim and two 

 specimens, "from the Coast region of the State of Ceara, " were sent 

 by Mr. Rocha. 



streptaxis deplanchei quixadaensis n. subsp. 



A single specimen was taken about a mile below Quixada which 

 differs from the type in being a little larger (diam. 7 mm.), with only 

 a perceptible trace of the inner parietal nodule; a half-grown speci- 

 men taken in the same locality is probably of the same subspecies. 



Streptaxis cookeana n. sp. PI. XXII, figs. .5, 6, 7. 



Shell depressed, with low, conoidal spire with the lateral outlines but 

 slightly convex, perforate, the umbilicus about .5 mm. in diameter, 

 twisted so as to appear closed above the last whorl, but actually 

 extending to the apex; thin, pellucid, glossy, very faintly yellowish; 

 the first If nepionic whorls nearly smooth, the rest closely, irregularly, 

 and finely costulate, the costulae slightly arcuate and strongly retract- 

 ive, about as wide as the interspaces, in places indistinct, but 

 showing about 13 to the millimeter on the penultimate whorl; 

 costulae obsolete on the base except at the mouth of the umbilicus 

 where they are intensified rather abruptly, forming about twelve 

 vertical ribs which extend inward over nearly the whole of the last 

 whorl. Whorls 5|, increasing regularly in width for 4^ whorls, when, 

 the apparent width is modified by the characteristic distortion of 

 the genus; sutures distinct, almost impressed. Aperture slightly 

 broader than high, very roundly triangular ; peristome moderately 

 expanded, slightly recurved over the umbilicus, white; parietal 

 wall covered by a thin callus uniting the extremities of the outer 

 lip; no apertural teeth present. Young shells perfectly regular, 

 with a wider umbilicus than in the adult and showing frequent 

 varices (one to three to a whorl) on the base, which give the young 

 shells the appearance of Scolodonta and suggest the possibility that 

 some species assigned to Scolodonta may prove to be the young of 

 Streptaxis. 



Alt. 6, greatest diam. 9.75, least diam. 7, width of aperture 3.25, 

 alt. of aperture 3 mm. 



Animal grayish, marked by orange-yellow colored ocular tentacles 

 and a line of the same color extending backward from the base of 

 each tentacle; young and adult animals are the same in color. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 629 



This was the commonest species of Streptaxis at Ceara-Mirim, 

 nearly two hundred specimens having been taken; and four each were 

 taken at Estremoz and Baixa Verde, mostly under dead leaves and 

 •debris, but more rarely under stones and dead wood. The species, 

 which seems to be new, is related to S. glaber Fir., but it is larger, 

 with slightly fewer whorls, a distinctly striate spire and no parietal 

 teeth. It is named for Miss J. M. Cooke, of Point Loma, California, 

 who has added many species and varieties of shells to the known 

 fauna of Southern California and Lower California, 

 streptaxis abunaensis n. sp. PI. XXII, figs. 8, 9, 10. 



Shell quite heavy, rather high, the spire markedly convex and 

 rotund, umbilicus moderately open; 'light horn colored, with a thin, 

 fugaceous, j^ellowish-brown epidermis; nepionic whorl smooth, 

 followed by a series of broad, low, rounded, strongly retractive, 

 slightly arcuate costulae with moderate interspaces (about nine to 

 the millimeter on the penultimate whorl), becoming obsolete over the 

 whole of the last whorl, except at the mouth of the umbilicus, where 

 they can be seen with a glass. Whorls about 6, the first three rather 

 narrow and crowded, the last two much l)roader, the shell showing 

 the characteristic distortion of the genus ; sutures distinct, but not 

 impressed. Aperture somewhat triangular, a little broader than 

 high, very distinctly angulated at the juncture of the lip with the 

 parietal wall; peristome white, slightly reflected above, the reflection 

 increasing to the lower juncture with the parietal wall which it meets 

 at an angle of about 90 degrees; a slight groove behind the basal 

 lip, running into the umbilicus. 



In five specimens there are three nearly equidistant teeth within 

 the mouth, about in the middle of the parietal wall and of the basal 

 and outer lips, the parietal tooth being narrow and high and directly 

 entering for about 1| millimeters. In a sixth specimen the parietal 

 tooth is wanting altogether, although the other characteristics are 

 well marked. 



Alt. 6.25, greatest diam. 8, least diam. 6.25, width of aperture 2.5, 

 alt. of aperture 2.25, diam. of the umbilicus .7 mm. 



Two living and four dead specimens were taken at Camp 33, 

 M. & M. R. R., this point being known as Abuna in Brazil. 



This species, which seems to be new, is closely related to *S. cumin- 

 gianus Pfr., from which it differs chiefly by the striation of the spire 

 and larger size. 



Genus HAPPIA Bourguignat. 

 Happia snethlagei n. sp. PI. XXII, figs. 3, 4. 



Shell very widely, perspectively umbilicate, thin, translucent, 




630 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



light horn colored, with a thin, grayish -yellow epidermis; nepionic 

 1^ whorls smooth, and, beginning on the second whorl, everywhere 

 sculptured with fine, irregularly sized and grouped, retractive, 

 arcuate costulse, showing under a strong glass as if they were sharp 

 edged, with broad, rounded interspaces; most specimens also showing- 

 some evidence of obsolete spiral striations on the last two whorls. 

 Whorls 5, slightly convex above, well rounded below and broadening 

 decidedly toward the mouth for the last quarter turn; periphery 

 well rounded, sutures slightly impressed, the upper aspect of the- 

 shell being flattened to the middle of tJie last turn, then slightly 

 descending. Aperture oblique, lunate, as if one fifth of a circle were 

 cut out by the convexity of the penultimate whorl; peristome sharp, 

 showing a slight reflection for about one millimeter before joining 

 the lower parietal wall; extremities of the peristome approaching, 

 joining the parietal wall nearly at right angles, the upper nearly 

 horizontally, the lower nearly in a vertical cUrection. Alt. 6, greatest 

 diam. 12.5, least diam. 10.5, alt. of penultimate whorl at the mouth 

 4.5, alt. of mouth 5.25, least diam. of mouth 4 mm. 



The animal is dark gray with lemon-yellow tentacles. 



About 150 specimens of this species were taken at Camp 39, 

 M. & M. R. R., a few only living, seven at Camp 40, four living and 

 seven dead at Camp 46, one dead at Porto Velho and four living 

 specimens were sent by Mr. C. W. Eaton, of the engineering force 

 of the Madeira-Mamore R. R., without location noted; also one 

 living and fourteen dead specimens, taken at the vSerra do Erere,. 

 were sent from the Goelcli Museum by the Director, Dr. Emilia 

 Snethlage, to whom the species is dedicated. 



Genus ENTODINA Ancey. 

 Entodina jekylli n. sp. PI. XXII, figs. 11, 12, 13. 



Shell widely, perspectively umbilicate, grayish corneous; nucleus 

 nearly smooth, and, commencing on the second whorl, ever\'where 

 sculptured with prominent, narrow costae (about eleven to the 

 millimeter at the begimiing of the last whorl), separated by broad 

 interspaces, nearly vertical on all but the last whorl, where they 

 become arcuately retractive; costae slightly less prominent below 

 the periphery, but showing distinctly as they dip into the umbilicus, 

 as well as on the preceding whorls within the umbilicus. Whorls 

 4f, convex, periphery well rounded, sutures deep. Aperture di- 

 agonal, irregular, a broad oval below, partially separated by the 

 teeth from a small, oblique oval above; lip shortly reflected, very 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 631 



slightly thickened, the extremities joined by a trigonal, dentiform 

 callus and with an obtuse tooth near the upper extremity. Alt. 1.5, 

 greatest diameter 3.5, least diam. 3 mm. 



About twenty specimens of this striking species were taken just 

 below the surface of the ground, between the buttresses of an old 

 stump at Camp 39, M. & M. R. R. The species is named for Mr. 

 A. B. Jekyll, of the firm of contractors, who made our trip to the 

 Madeira and Mamore Rivers possible and who extended to us so 

 many personal courtesies. It differs from E. reyrei Souverbie by 

 its smaller size, the absence of a swelling behind the lip and by the 

 tooth on the outer lip. 



Genus SYSTROPHIA Pfr. 

 SystropMa eatoni n. sp. PL XXII, figs. 14, 15. 



Shell widely, perspectively umbilicate, rather thin, diaphanous, 

 shining, grayish or grayish-yellow, the yellowish tint apparently 

 depending on an extremely thin, fugaceous epidermis; spire sub- 

 immersed, embryo nearly smooth, and, beginning on the second 

 whorl, everywhere sculptured with irregularly sized and spaced 

 costulse, retractive on the early whorls, but arcuate on the last whorl, 

 and becoming protractive as they cross the base and dip into the 

 umbilicus; obsolete spiral markings present on the last whorl and 

 perceptible with a strong glass on the early whorls; sutures deep 

 and well defined; periphery evenly rounded except on the last 

 eighth turn, where an oblique flattening of the upper portion produces 

 a subangulation. Whorls 10, slightly convex above, more rounded 

 below, very narrow, the last more than treble the width of the 

 penultimate; not descending in front. Aperture obliquely sub- 

 triangular; lip white, thickened but not expanded, depressed above, 

 extremities distant; callus uniting the extremities thin, but well 

 defined externally; no internal teeth. 



Alt. 5.75, greatest diam. 14.5, least diam. 12.5 mm. 

 This species is closely related to ^S. stenogyra Pfr., but it differs by 

 being smaller, with scarcely so many whorls and a narrower aperture, 

 and by the lip being thickened but not expanded. S. helicycloides 

 Orb. is more depressed, with a distinct impression extending over 

 the last third of the last whorl. A single, half grown specimen was 

 taken at Abuna, Bolivia, six living specimens at Camp 35, M. & M. 

 R. R., and seven living specimens were sent from some point not 

 noted on the same railroad by Mr. C. W. Eaton, of the engineering 

 force, for whom I have named the species. 




632 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



ZONITID^. 

 Genus ZONITOIDES Lehm. 



Zonitoides parana n. sp. PI. XXI, figs. 12, 13, 14. 



Shell umbilicate (the diameter of the umbilicus being contained 

 4f times in that of the shell), depressed, with low-conic spire, light 

 brown, rather glossy, with fine, close sculpture of almost exactly 

 vertical growth lines. Whorls 5, very slowly increasing, the last 

 rounded at the periphery. Aperture lunate. 



Alt. 1.5, diam. 0.9 mm. 



A single specimen of this minute species was taken at Para. The 

 genus is uncertain, but the texture of the shell is that of Zonitoides 

 rather than of Thysanophora or any Patuloid genus. 



Genus GUPPYA Morch. 

 Guppya mayi n. sp. PI. XXI, 0. 7. 



Shell very narrowly perforate, conical, with a very obtuse apex 

 and well-rounded base, the last whorl distinctly, but not sharply 

 angulate, the apical angle being about 90 degrees; translucent, 

 slightly shining, with a thin, dull straw-colored, fugaceous epidermis; 

 everwhere sculptured with fine, irregularly spaced, retractive, 

 radiating costulse of varying sizes, crossed by more regular, very finely 

 incised lines, very closely and nearly evenly spaced. Whorls 5, 

 convex; sutures well defined, especially above the last whorl. Aper- 

 ture semilunar, very oblique, slightly broadened above by the angle 

 of the last whorl; peristome sharp, very slightly reflected on the 

 basal portion and more distinctly as it approaches the umbilicus. 



Alt. 3, greatest diam. 3.65, least diam. 3.4 mm. 



Seven specimens of this species, which seems to be new, were taken 

 with the last species at Camp 39, M. & M. R. R. It is more elevated 

 than G. seminlini Moricand and has more whorls. It is named for 

 Mr. R. H. May, of the contracting firm of May, Jekyll & Randolph, 

 who, with Mr. Jekyll, made our trip to the Madeira-Mamore R. R. 

 possible and in every way delightful. 



HELIOIDiE. 



Genus THYSANOPHORA Strebcl and PfefFer. 

 Thysanophora caeca Guppy. 



Helix cce(\a Guppy, Tryon, Man. Conch. (2), III, p. .55, pi. 9, fig. 23. 

 Thysanophora ccBca Guppy, Pilsbry, Man. Conch. (2), IX, pi. lb, hg. 4. 



Eight specimens of this West Indian shell "from the Serra de 

 Baturite, State of Ceara," were sent by Mr. Rocha. This seems to 

 be the first report of its having been taken south of the Amazon. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 633 



Genus SOLAROPSIS Beck. 

 Solaropsis rugifera Dohrn. PI. XXII, figs. 1, 2. 



Helix rugifera Dohrn, Jahrbuch. d. deutsch. Mai. Gesell., 1882, p. 100. 

 Pilsbry, in Man. Conch. (2), v, p. 195, quoted Dr. Dohrn's remarks 

 and description of this species as follows: "I possess, unfortunately, 

 only a single specimen of this species, not fully adult, which I received 

 years ago with other species from eastern Peru. On account of the 

 sculpture, which differs remarkably from that of all allied forms, 

 I have decided to give it an (admittedly) incomplete description, 

 in the hope that someone may be able to complete it. H. selenostoma 

 Pfr., which is its nearest species in contour, is more narrowly con- 

 voluted, proportionally higher, and more narrowly umbilicated. " 



"Broadly umbilicate, deplanate, thin, obliquely rugose plicate, 

 the plicse vanishing beneath, brownish corneous, fiammulate at the 

 sutures and narrowly 2-banded in the middle of the whorl with 

 reddish; spire plane, apex rather smooth; suture moderately pro- 

 found; whorls nearly 5, convex, the last rounded, not descending in 

 front; umbilicus ecjualling j the diameter, funnel-shaped; aperture 

 a little oblique, rounded lunar, peristome (unknown)." 



Using a perfectly mature specimen, I would amplify this descrip- 

 tion as follows: 



Shell broadly umbilicate, deplanate, thin; embryonic 1^ whorls 

 smooth, a fine radiating sculpture beginning on the second whorl 

 and showing minute spiral lines under a strong glass, the sculpture 

 becoming distinctly rugose plicate on the third whorl and continuing 

 to the periphery of the last whorl, from which point, the rugosity 

 disappearing, the plicse continue well into the umbilicus as well 

 marked, irregularly sized and spaced costulse, everywhere crossed 

 by fine, irregularly spaced spiral lines which show most distinctly 

 on the costulse; brownish corneous, fiammulate at the sutures, and 

 narrowly, interruptedly, 2-banded with reddish, the lower band 

 placed at the periphery, the upper half way between this and the 

 fiammules, except on the last quarter turn, where the flammules 

 extend to the second band; spire plane; sutures moderately deep; 

 whorls 5|, convex, the last rounded, scarcely descending in front; 

 umbilicus equaling about j the diameter, perspective; aperture a 

 little oblique, rounded lunar; peristome white, very slightly reflected 

 throughout, the reflection becoming more marked at the junction of 

 the basal part with the parietal wall. 



In none of the specimens, however young, does the sculpture 

 entirely disappear on the basal portion of the last whorl as noted by 

 42 




634 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Dohrn, and in the mature specimen it can be distinguished on the 

 early whorls within the umbilicus. 



Alt. 13, greatest diam. 27, least diam. 22. .5, diam. of the umbilicus 

 within the last whorl 5 mm. 



One mature living and eight immature specimens were taken 

 between Camps 38 and 39, M. & M. R. R., and two immature speci- 

 mens at Camp 46. 



Dr. von Ihering's var. juruana was taken at a point about half way 

 between the original location and these points on the Madeira and 

 Mamore Rivers. 



Solaropsis sp. undet. 



A single specimen of this genus, too young to identify, taken at 

 Para, was sent from the Goeldi Museum. 



Genus PSADARA. 

 Psadara derbyi cearana n. subsp. Pi. XXII, fig. 19. 



A single mature specimen "from the State of Ceara" was sent by 

 Mr. Rocha and a half-grown specimen was taken on the Maranguape 

 Mountain. It differs from the type by being larger, with fewer whorls . 

 Comparative measurements follow: 



P. derbyi v. Ihering, whorls 4^, diam. 12 mm. 



P. derbyi cearana, whorls 4J, greatest diam. 16.5, least diam. 13.7, 

 alt. 8.25 mm. 



Genus STROPHOCHEILUS Spix. 

 Strophocheilus (Borus) maximus (Sowerby). 



Cochlogena maxima Sby., Appendix to Tank. Cat., p. 7 (1825, unrecognizable 



description) . 

 Bulinus maximus Sby., Conch. Illustr., fig. 63 (1841?). 

 Strophocheilus (Borus) maximus Sby., Pilsbry, Man. Conch. (2), X, p. 1.5, 



pi. 4, fig. 5. 



A single living specimen was taken between Camps 45 and 46, 

 Madeira & Mamore R. R., and dead specimens were taken quite 

 commonly all the way from Camp 39 to Camp 43. 

 strophocheilus (Borus) cantagallanus (Rang). 



Helix cantagallana Rang, Ann. Nat. Sci., XXIV, p. 50 (1831). 

 Strophocheilus (Borus) cantagallanus (Rang), Pilsbry, Man. Conch. (2), X, 

 p. 22, pi. 16, fig. 24; pi. 17, figs. 28, 29. 



A single dead specimen was taken at Carnaubinha near the head 

 of the Natal estuary, 

 strophocheilus (Borus) oblongus (MuUer). 



Helix oblonga Miiller, Hist. Vermium, II, p. 86, and of Gmelin, Born and 



Dillwyn. 

 Strophocheilus (Borus) oblongus (MuUer) Pilsbry, Man. Conch. (2), X, p. 



29, pi. 14, figs. 70-73. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 635 



Two mature specimens "from the interior of the State of Ceara" 

 were sent by Mr. Rocha and one mature specimen taken on the 

 Serra de Ibiapaba, State of Ceara, and an immature specimen taken 

 on the Rio Maccurii were sent from the Goeldi Museum. 



BULIMULID^. 



Genus PLEKOCHEILUS Guilding. 

 Plekocheilus (Eurytus) pintadinus (Orbigny). 



Helix pintadina Orb., Mag. de Zool., 1835, CI, V, No. 61, p. 8. 

 Bulimus pintadinus Orb., Voyage dans TAmer. Merid., pi. 29, figs. 11, 12. 

 Plekocheilus {Eurytus) pintadinus (Orb.) PiLsbrv, Man. Conch. (2), X, p. 

 93, pi. 36, figs. 84, 85. 



A single dead specimen of this handsome species, in a good state 

 of preservation, was taken near the Guajara-Assii Falls. The species 

 was described and figured from a single dead specimen, deposited 

 in the Museum of Natural History in Paris. It was taken in the 

 foot hills of Bolivia, several hundred miles from the Guajara-Assu 

 Falls. These two specimens are the only ones reported, so far as is 

 known to the writer. 



Genus BULIMULUS Leach. 

 Bulimulus (Bulimulus) ereotus (Reeve). 



Bulimus eredus Rve., Conch. Icon., pi. 58, fig. 392. 



Bulimulus {Bulimulus) eredus Rve., Pilsbrv, Man. Conch. (2), XI, p. 60, 

 pi. 10, fig. 99. 



Two specimens taken at Arumanduba, Parana de Almeirim, were 

 sent from the Goeldi Museum. 



Bulimulus (Bulimulus) tenuissimus (Orbigny). 



Helix tenuissima (Fer.) Orbigny, Mag. de Zool., 1835, p. 11 (name only). 

 Bulimus tenuissimus ("Fer. dans sa collection") Orb., Voyage, p. 272. 

 Bulimulus {Bulimulus) tenuissimus Orb., Pilsbrv, Man. Conch. (2), XI, p. 

 64, pi. 10, figs. 91, 92. 



This species was rather common at Ceara-Mirim; it was found 

 at Estremoz and Pirangy, a single specimen was taken at Maranhao, 

 six at Itacoatiara, and about twenty living specimens were taken 

 near the water works of Para. A single specimen taken at the 

 Serra do Erere was sent from the Goeldi Museum. Most specimens 

 show the spiral striation and slightly open umbilicus of B. tenuissimus, 

 and all have a very characteristic wrinkle-striate embryonic sculp- 

 ture, extending over about 1| whorls. 



Bulimulus (Rhinus) pubescens (Moricand). 



Helix {Bulimus) pubescens Moric, Mem. Soc. Phys. et Hist. Nat. Gendve 



XI, p. 157, pi. 5, figs. 21-23 (1846). 

 Bulimtdus {Rhinus) pubescens Moric, Pilsbrv, Man. Conch. (2), XI, p. 81 



pi. 13, figs. 1.5, 16, 19; pi. 15, fig. 23. ^ 



About a dozen typical specimens were taken at Ceara-Mirim. 




636 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Bulimulus (Rhinus) roohai n. sp. PI. XXIII, figs. 19, 20. 



Shell deeply and rather narrowly umbilicate, ovate conic, rather 

 solid, corneous in the young, the last whorl in the adult sometimes 

 showing a tendency to spiral banding in the darkest specimens, but 

 more frequently becoming whitish and translucent; surface shining; 

 first 1| nepionic whorls with finely crinkled striae, then finely, closely 

 and irregularly retractively striate, the strise cut by a few distant 

 incised spiral lines, with intervening obsolete lines which disappear 

 on the base and lower part of the last whorl; spire conic, with slightly 

 convex sides; apex obtuse. Whorls 7, slightly convex, the last 

 rounded oval, not descending in front; sutures sharply defined, 

 moderately deep. Aperture subvertical, ovate, about one-half as 

 wide as high, nearly one-half the length of the shell, whitish to 

 corneous, corresponding to the color of the last whorl, very rarely 

 showing an}^ banding inside; peristome obtuse, very slightly reflected 

 below, whitish; columellar margin dilated above and refiexed; a 

 broad, thin parietal callus uniting the extremities of the lips. 



Very young specimens show the characteristic pilation of the sub- 

 genus, but it is entirely absent in all mature specimens. 



Alt. 24, diam, 13.5, alt. of aperture 11, diam. of aperture 5.75 mm. 



This species, which seems to be new, is similar to B. (Protoglyptus) 

 durus Spix in size and general appearance, but it differs by having 

 fine, crinkled strise in the embryo, whilst durus has vertical ribs. 

 It is more solid than B. vesicalis uruguayensis Pilsbry, and it has 

 spiral striae, a slightly expanded outer lip and a broader columella. 

 It differs from B. sarcochilus by being stouter and having a larger 

 aperture. It is remarkable among the species of Rhinus by having 

 hairs only in the young, no trace of them remaining in the adult stage- 



This is one of the commonest shells at Ceara-Mirim, generally 

 found living about an inch underground, under sticks and stones. 

 About a dozen living and dead specimens were taken at Jacoco, 

 about seven kilometers from Ceara-Mirim, one living and several 

 dead at Baixa Verde, and a single dead, but well-preserved mature 

 specimen was sent to Dr. Branner by Mr. G. A. Waring, of the 

 Brazilian Geological Survey, from "the plains southeast of Limoeira, 

 State of Ceara, near the Rio Jaguaribe." The species is named for 

 Mr. Francisco Dias da Rocha, of the city of -Ceara, who has done so 

 much through the collections made for his Museu Rocha to extend 

 our knowledge of the State of Ceara along all natural-history lines. 

 Bulimulus (Rhinus) rochai taipuensis n. subsp. PI. XXIII, fig. 17. 



About twenty specimens of this well-marked variety were taken at 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 637 



the fossil beds on the Central R. R., 46 kilometers from Natal, below 

 the station of Taipu, half a dozen were taken at Estremoz and a 

 single dead specimen, taken at Camocim, was sent from the Goeldi 

 Museum. It differs from the type in its more slender shape and 

 slightly smaller size. 



The whorls are 7j, alt. 23, diam. 12 mm. 

 Bulimulus (Rhinus) roohai suturalis n. subsp. PI. XXIII, figs. 13, 14. 



This is a fairly well-marked variety, differing from the type by 

 being thinner, smaller in size, slightly more globose, with fewer 

 whorls, never more than six, the spire being distinctly chestnut 

 colored with an extension showing in a light bron-n band on the 

 lower curve of the suture. 



Alt. 17, diam. 12. 



Ten living specimens were taken at Mongiiba, a station on the 

 Ceara & Baturite R. R. about 27 kilometers from Ceara, and eleven 

 specimens sent by Mr. Rocha ''from the State of Ceara" correspond in 

 shape with this variety, but lack the sutural band." 



Genus DRYM^EUS Albers. 



Drymaeus expansus 1 (Pfeiffer). 



Bidinus puIcheUus Sowerby, Conch. Illust., fig. 91, not Bulimus pulchellus 



Broderip, P. Z. S., 1832, p. 106. 

 Bulimus expansus Pfeiffer, Monogr., II, p. 60. 

 DrymcBus expansus Pfr., Pilsbry, Man. Conch. (2), XI, p. 222, pi. 34, figs. 1-5. 



A single, half -grown specimen taken at Camp 46. M. & M. R. R., 

 seems to be referable to this species. 

 Drymaeus branneri n. sp. PI. XXIII, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. 



Shell broadly and openly rimate, ovate conic, thin, diaphanous, 

 shining, white or light Jjrown, typically marked in chestnut by a 

 narrow band beginning within the mouth just below the upper lip 

 attachment and continuing around the last whorl, below the pe- 

 riphery, to a point about three millimeters behind the flare of the lip, 

 and two interrupted bands, above and parallel to this, disappearing 

 before reaching the penultimate whorl, the tendency being in most 

 shells to a lessened development of these markings; embryonic 1| 

 whorls with typical Drymaeus sculpture, the remaining portion of 

 the shell being everywhere sculptured with irregular, retractive 

 costulae cut by close, finely incis,ed, wavy lines, subobsolete on the 

 earlier whorls; spire conic, with slightly convex outlines; apex 

 obtuse. Whorls 5| to 5f , slightly convex, the last well rounded, very 

 convex below, slightly ascending in front. Aperture short oval, 

 very slightly oblique, showing the external markings within; peris- 




638 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



tome yellow, outside and in, edged narrowly wdth white, rather 

 broadly and flatly reflected, the terminations very slightly approach- 

 ing above; columellar lip with a thick, prominent flange enclosing 

 the umbilical chink, dilated; parietal callus very thin. 



Alt. 23.5, diam. 14.5, alt. of aperture 12.5 mm. Type. 

 " 25, " 15, " " " 12.5 mm. 



This species is related to D. strigatus Sby., but it differs by being 

 more obese, by the greater development of spiral striation, and in 

 having a yellow lip instead of violet as in D. strigatus. D. similaris 

 Moricand is similar in shape and color of the lip, but it differs con- 

 spicuously in color pattern. 



Two dead specimens were taken at Camp 40, M. & M. R. R., and 

 several dead specimens at Camp 39, only one being perfect and as 

 well preserved as a living shell. Many of these shells, as well as 

 many others taken on the right of way of the M. & M. R. R., were 

 more or less damaged by fire used in clearing. 

 Drymaeus linostoma suprapunctatus n. subsp. PI. XXIII, figs. 5, 6, 7, 8. 



Shell oblong, thin, diaphanous, glossy, shining, appearing nearly 

 smooth to the naked eye, but, under a glass, showing typical Drijmmus 

 sculpture on the nepionic If whorls; afterward with irregular growth 

 lines and fine, indistinct, wavy incised spiral lines throughout; dirty 

 white, occasionally becoming roseate toward the lip, with wide, 

 well-spaced, longitudinal flames of brown or brownish-violet, inter- 

 rupted or crossed by a spiral row of dots just above the periphery 

 of the whorl. Whorls 6, slightly convex, separated by deep, smooth 

 sutures; spire conic, obtuse at the apex; last whorl subcylindrical, 

 more than two thirds the total length. Aperture large, oval, a little 

 oblique, light colored within except where the external markings 

 show through, and shading to roseate on the lip in some specimens; 

 peristome rather broadly expanded but not recurved; columella 

 twisted, with an extremely narrow flange so reflected as to leave 

 little or no umbilicus; extremities approaching sharply; parietal 

 callus very thin. 



Alt. 26.5, diam. 11.5, alt. of last whorl 18.5, alt. of mouth 12.25 

 mm. Type. A specimen with broken spire measures alt. ?, diam. 

 12, alt. of last whorl 19.5, alt. of mouth 13 mm. 



This variety differs from the type of D. linostoma (Orb.) by the 

 interruption of the vertical stripes and the development of a spiral 

 series of dots above, by the closure of the umbilicus and by the pale 

 aperture. In linostoma the umbilicus is distinct, the stripes are 

 continuous and the peristome of a deep violet color. D. suhsimUaris 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 639 



Pilsbry and D. hidalgoi Da Costa are closely related to suprapunc- 

 tatus in color pattern, but the former is a much more slender shell 

 and the latter is larger, umbilicate, and with a deep violet aperture. 

 A considerable number of dead and more or less charred and broken 

 specimens were taken at Camp 39, M. & M. R. R. 

 Drymaeus sp. undet. 



A single young specimen was taken near the Guajara-Assii Falls 

 and two half-grown specimens taken at the Serra do Erere were sent 

 from the Goeldi Museum. All have t3^pical apical Dnjmceus sculp- 

 ture and, as they do not fall into any of the species here described, 

 they are too young to diagnose with certainty. 



Subfamily ORTHALICINiE. 



Genus OXYSTYLA Schhiter. 

 Oxystyla pulchella (Spix). 



Achatina pulchella Spix, Testae. Brasil., pi. 9, fig. 2. 



Oxystyla ptdchella (Spix), Pilsbrv, Man. Conch. (2). XII, p. 13.5, pi. 28, figs. 

 27-29. 



The typical form was rather rare, but a few specimens were taken 

 with the following variety at Ceara-Mirim and one specimen was 

 taken at Paparj'; two specimens taken at Para were sent from the 

 Goeldi Museum. 

 Oxystyla pulchella prototypus Pilsbry. 



Man. Conch. (2), XII, p. 137, pi. 28, figs. 32-37. 



A single immature specimen was taken near Baturite, on the Ceard 

 & Baturite R. R., one hundred kilometers from Ceara; half a dozen 

 dead specimens at Baixa Verde, and several thousand at Ceara- 

 Mirim, where the}" were aestivating, the mature specimens on the 

 trunks and lower branches of various trees, the immature specimens 

 packed away very closely in knot holes and crevices between the 

 branches of the same trees. As Dr. Pilsbry remarks. I.e., "This is 

 an earlier, less differentiated form of the species, of which pulchella 

 is an extreme and more local development. It is more widely 

 distributed than the typical form, occupying the northwestern and 

 southern peripheral portions of the range of the species." To this 

 I can now add the northeastern portion of the range of the species. He 

 says further, "The largest specimen of prototypus before me measures 

 45| mill, long, with 6| whorls." The largest specimen taken by the 

 Stanford Expedition measures alt. 55, diam. 36, longest axis of the 

 aperture 34 mm., being excess of all measurements given by him 

 for either the type or the variety. Our specimens are all lighter in 




640 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



color than those in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 

 probably owing to the dryness of the climate of northeastern Brazil. 



Genus CORONA Albers. 

 Corona regalis (Hup6). PL XXIII, figs. 21, 22. 



Bidimus regalis Hupe, in Castelnau, Exped. dans I'Amer. du Sud. Mol- 



lusques, p. 34, pi. 10, fig. 3 (1857). 

 Corona regalis (Hupe) Pilsbry, Man. Conch. (2), XII, p. 180, pi. 35, figs. 



13, 14, 19; pi. 34, figs. 9-12; pi. 34a, figs. 26, 27; pi. 33, figs. 3, 6. 



One specimen in fine condition was taken at Camp 43, M. & M, 

 R. R., and others in various states of disorganization at various 

 points along the right of way as far down as Camp 39 ; also two dead 

 specimens at Porto Velho. The specimen figured differs from those 

 in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia by 

 the conspicuous blotches on the last 1^ whorls and in showing a 

 darker, richer green color. 



Corona regina (Ffoussac). 



Helix (Cochlitoma) regina Ferussac, Tabl. Systemat., p. 40, No. 342. 

 Corona regina (Fer.), Pilsbry, Man. Conch. (2), XII, p. 177, pi. 33, figs. 1, 

 2, 4, 5. 



A single fine specimen taken near St. Antonio da Cachoeira on the 

 Rio Jary was sent from the Goeldi Museum. 



Genus ORTHALICUS Beck. 



Orthalicus sultana meobambensis Pfr. PI. XXII, lig. is. 



Helix sultana Dillw., Descriptive Cat., II, p. 920 (1817). 

 Bulimus meobambensis Pfr., P. Z. S., 1855, p. 96. 



One living specimen taken at Camp 35, M. & M. R. R., is especially 

 large and fine, differing from the specimens in the collection of the 

 Academy {Man. Conch., XII, pi. 47, fig. 8) by a slightly smaller mouth 

 proportionally, a more rounded outer lip, and in being more brill- 

 iantly colored. It measures alt. 81.5, diam. 51, alt. of mouth 46, 

 diam. of mouth 29.5 mm. 



Several embryonic shells, all showing the characteristic sculpture 

 of this genus, were taken at Camp 39, just under the surface of the 

 ground. 



Subfamily ODONTOSTOMIN.F. 



Genus ODONTOSTOMUS Beck. 

 Odontostomus (Cyclodontina) inflatus (Wagner). 



Pupa inflata Wagner, Testae. Bras., p. 20 (1827). 



Odontostomus (Cyclodontina) inflatus Wagner, Pilsbrv, Man. Conch. (2), 

 XIV, p. 60, pi. 11, figs. 43-45. 



One specimen "from the State of Cearc4" was sent by Mr. Rocha. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 641 



Odontostomus (Cyclodontina) inflatus fasciatus (Potiez et Michaud). 

 Pupafasciata P. & M., Galerie, I, p. 165, pi. 16, figs. 19, 20. 

 Odontostomus {Cyclodontina) inflatus fasciatus P. & M., Pilsbrj^, Man. Conch.. 

 (2), XIV, p. 61, pi. 11, fig. 43. 



This was one of the commonest shells at Ceara-Mirim and at Baixa 



Verde, where it was taken, living and dead, generally aestivating 



under stones and debris. It was also taken living at the fossil beds 



below Taipu. Nearly all specimens taken have four buccal teeth 



and are nearly typical. 



Odontostomus (Cyclodontina) inflatus costulatus Ancoy. pi. XXIII, figs. 11, 12. 



Odontostomus inflatus Wagner, var. costulata Ancey, Jour, de Conchyl., LII, 

 p. 303, 1904. 



Two specimens were taken below Quixada, the present terminus 

 of the Ceara & Baturite R. R. It has not before been figured. 

 Odontostomus (Cyclodontina) inflatus maranguapensis n. subsp. Pi. XXIII, fig. 18. 



Shell umbilicate, shining, translucent, gray throughout except an 

 indistinct buff line below the lower suture and a narrow, scarcely 

 perceptible chestnut band behind the peristome, intensified at the 

 suture and in two blotches, one opposite the upper palatal tooth and 

 one at the basal side of the umbilicus, both being perceptible within 

 the mouth; spire turreted-conic, with slightly convex sides, apex 

 obtuse; nepionic If whorls very finely and nearly evenly decussated, 

 the spiral lines becoming obsolete on the second whorl and showing 

 thereafter as minute wrinkles, chiefly in the grooves of the distinct, 

 irregular, retractive costulse (about four to the millimeter on the 

 penultimate whorl) which cover all the remaining whorls, dip deeply 

 into the umbilicus and extend lightly over the parietal wall. Whorls 

 8, separated by a narrow, deep, but not channelled, suture, scarcely 

 convex, the last having two pits behind the outer lip, one midway 

 and the other near the base, and a slight depression paralleling the 

 end of the suture. Aperture nearly vertical, round oval, obstructed 

 by a low, entering ridge corresponding to the lower pit and taking 

 the place of the lower palatal tooth, and three distinct teeth: a 

 compressed parietal lamella, a large vertical columellar lamella with 

 a horizontal continuation below which includes the oblique, twisted 

 umbilicus, and a moderate-sized upper palatal lamina in the middle 

 of the outer lip; peristome light gray, broadly expanded and very 

 slightly reflected, the channels characteristic of the section being, 

 rather shallow. 



Alt. 18, diam. 7.25, alt. of mouth 6 mm. 



One specimen was taken on the Maranguape Mountain; a second, the 

 type, at Monguba, on the Ceara & Baturite R. R., about 27 kilo- 




642 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



meters from Ceara, and two specimens "from the State of Ceara" 



were sent by Mr. Rocha. All are identical except that the specimens 



sent by Mr. Rocha are somewhat bleached and show the brown 



markings very indistinctly. The variety, differs from 0. inflatus 



fasciatus P. and M., the common Odontostomus of the region, in being 



smaller and lacking the characteristic brown markings, and from 



0. inflatus costulatus Ancey in being smaller, with fewer teeth. 



Odontostomus (Cyclodontina) soabrellus (Anthony) Dohrn. var. cylindricus n. subsp. 

 PI. XXni, figs. 15. 16. 



A single dead specimen was sent to Dr. Branner by Mr. G. A. 

 Waring, of the Brazilian Geological Survey, "from the plains south- 

 east of Limoeira, State of Ceara, near the Rio Jaguaribe. " It differs 

 from the type by the much more convex lateral outlines of the spire, 

 which is therefore wider above, the contour of the shell being some- 

 what cylindric, while in scabrellus it tapers much more regularly; 

 the costulation is also decidedly finer than in scabrellus. It has only 

 four teeth, the sutural, suprapalatal, and basal folds of scabrellus 

 being absent, but this deficiency may be due to immaturity. The 

 whorls are 10; alt. 22.7,. diameter 7.5 mm. 



Genus TOMIGERUS Spix. 

 Tomigerus clausus Spix. 



Tomigerus clausus Spix, Testae. Bras., pi. 15, figs. 4, 5. Pilsbry, Man. 

 Conch. (2), XIV, p. 106, pi. 7, figs. 68-70. 



Specimens were taken, living and dead, rather commonly at 

 Ceara-Mirim and Baixa Verde and less commonly at Estremoz, 

 Maranguape Mountain, and the fossil beds below Taipii and at 

 Quixada and two or three other points on the Ceara & Baturite 

 R. R. Mr. G. A. Waring sent two dead specimens "from 30 or 40 

 miles south of Mossoro, State of Ceara. Four specimens taken at 

 the Serra de Ibiapaba and three from Comocim, State of Ceara, were 

 sent from the Goeldi Museum. 

 Tomigerus rochai von Ihering. 



Proc. Malac. Soc. London, VI, April 4, 1905. 



A single specimen "from the State of Ceara" was sent by Mr. 

 Rocha and a half-grown specimen taken at Camocim, State of 

 Ceara, was sent from the Goeldi Museum. 



Tomigerus laevis von Ihering. 



Proc. Malac. Soc. Lond., I.e. 

 Three specimens "from the State of Ceara" were sent by Mr. 

 Rocha and a single specimen taken at Camocim was sent from the 

 Goeldi Museum. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 643 



Tomigerus cumingii 'Newcomb' Pfeiffer. 



Toniigeriis cumingii Newcomb MSS, Pfeiffer, Zeitschr. f. Malak., 1849, 

 p. 67. Pilsbry, Man. Conch. (2), XIV, p. 108, pi. 7, figs. 64-66. 



About twenty dead specimens were taken at Ceara-Mirim and 

 three from "the coast region of the State of Ceara" were sent by 

 Mr. Rocha. 



Tomigerus pilsbryi n. sp. PL XXIII, figs. 9, 10. 



Shell compressed-ovate, greatly distorted as if by pressure on the 

 apertural side, imperforate, with a long, straightened umbilical 

 suture ending in a deep excavation behind the columellar lip; first 

 1| whorls smooth, and, beginning on the second whorl, everywhere 

 sculptured with very fine, irregular, retractive striulse, most marked 

 on the last half whorl, which shows, under a glass, a slight tendency 

 to the corrugation which is characteristic of several species of the 

 genus; spire conic, apex rather acute. Whorls 4f, very slightly 

 convex, the last greatlj-- distorted, with an oblique groove behind 

 the outer lip and another behind the basal lip parallel to the umbilical 

 suture; sutures well defined. Aperture vertical, somewhat trian- 

 gular, with three lamellae on the parietal wall, the upper beginning 

 in a slight thickening of the upper extremity of the peristome and 

 entering sinuously and obliquely, three on the sloping columellar 

 margin and a large, obliqueh' entering, plate-like fold within the 

 outer lip, its upper end bifid; peristome broadly expanded and 

 reflected, white; color slaty-white, shining, with a narrow brown line 

 marking the last two turns of the suture, a faint, narrow, brownish 

 band distinguishable on the last half turn of the body whorl and a 

 pale brown border along the umbilical suture, continued radially 

 upon the base some distance back of the basal lip. 



Alt. 13, greatest diam. 17, least diam. 9.25 mm. 



A single specimen of this species was taken at Ceara-Mirim. It is 

 related to T. Icevis von Ihering in being nearly smooth and colorless 

 and to T. rochai von Ihering in general contour, but it is larger than 

 the former and differs from the latter in its lower spire and less 

 angular aperture. The upper parietal fold is even more closely 

 united to the peristome than in T. clausus. It differs from all known 

 species by its much more compressed and distorted shape. 



Genus ANOSTOMA F. de Waldheim. 



Anostoma depressum Lamarck. 



Lamarck, An. s. vert., VI, pt, 2, 101. Pilsbry, Man. Conch. (2), XIV, p. 

 110, pi. 6, figs. 48-54. 



This species was rather common at Baixa Verde and a single dead 




644 PROCEEDINGS OF THE. ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



shell was taken at Pirangj'', twenty miles south of Natal. A single 

 dead specimen taken at Camocim was sent from the Goeldi Museum, 

 The living shells were taken under rocks where they were aestivating. 



Anostoma octodentatum F. de Waldheim. 



Museum Demidoff, III, p. 230 (1807). 

 One specimen was taken at Baixa Verde associated with the more 

 common A. depressum, a single specimen taken at Camocim was 

 sent from the Goeldi Museum and a third specimen taken "30 or 40 

 miles south of Mossoro, State of Ceara," was sent to Dr. Branner 

 by Mr. G. A. Waring. All were dead, making the determination 

 rather difficult, and each had only seven teeth, but as each has the 

 columellar lamella which is lacking in all specimens of depressum, it 

 seems justifiable to assign them to this species. 



AOHATINID^. 

 Genus SUBULINA Beck. 

 Subulina OOtona (Bruguiere). 



Bulimus odonus Brug., Encvcl. Meth., I, p. 325 (1792). 



Subulina odona Brug., Pilsbry, Man. Conch., (2), XVIII, p. 72, pi. 12, figs. 

 8,9. 



Specimens of this widely distributed species were taken at Ceara, 

 Para, Itacoatiara, and Camp 39, M. & M. R. R. 



Genus OPEAS Albers. 

 Opeas gracile (Mutton). 



Bulimus gracilis Hutton, Jour. Asiat. Soc, Bengal, III, 1834, p. 84. 

 Opeas gracile Hutton, Pilsbry, Man. Conch., (2), XVIII, p. 12.5, pi. 18, figs. 

 3—6. 



About thirty specimeixs were taken at Itacoatiara and a single 



specimen at Camp 39, M. & M. R. R. 



Opeas beckianum (Pfeiffer). 



Bulimus beckianus Pfr., Symbolse ad Hist. Heliceorum, III, p. 82 (1846). 

 Opeas beckianum Pfr., Pilsbry, Man. Conch., (2), XVIII, p. 189, pi. 27, figs. 

 42-46, 54, 55. 



This species was taken in considerable numbers at Camp 39, 



M. & M. R. R., and a very small variety was common atCeara-Mirim. 



Opeas octogyrum (Pfeiffer). 



Bulimus odogyrus Pfr., Malak. bl.. Ill, 1856, p. 45. 



Opeas octogyrum Pfr., Pilsbry, Man. Conch., (2), XVIII, p. 206, pi. 29, figs. 

 75-79. 



One or more specimens were taken at each of the following places : 

 Ceard-Mirim, Quixada, Para, Itacoatiara, and Camp 39, M. & M. 

 R. R. A single specimen ''from the State of Ceara" was sent by 

 Mr. Rocha. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 645 



Opeas opella Pilsbry and Vanatta. 



Proc. A. N. S. PhU., 1905, p. 785, fig. 1; Man. Conch., (2), XVIII, p. 186, 

 pi. 24, fig. 36. 



About forty specimens of this species, originally reported from the 

 Hawaiian Islands, were taken in the park at Para. Dr. Pilsbry 

 kindly made the diagnosis, so there is no doubt of their identit}'. 

 In the Manual of Conchology, p. 187, Dr. Pilsbry saj^s, "I do not 

 regard 0. opella as a native Hawaiian species." It is difficult to 

 imagine the route by which this species travelled from Para to the 

 Hawaiian Islands, but it was probably carried on plants. 



Genus LEPTINARIA Beck. 

 Xeptinaria lamellata (Potiez et Michaud). 



Achatina lamellata P. and M., Galerie de Moll, ou catal. Moll, et Coq. du 



Mus. de Douai, I, p. 128, pi. 11, fig. 8 (18.38). 

 Leptinaria lamellata P. and M., Pilsbrv, Man. Conch., (2), XVIII, p. 288, 



pi. 42, figs. 39, 40; pi. 4.3, fig. .50. " 



Seven specimens were taken at Camp 39, ]\I. & M. R. R. 



Leptinaria lamellata concentrica (Reeve). 



Achat i I, a connntrlea Rvo., Conch. Icon., V, pi. 19, fig. 106 (June, 1849). 

 Leptinaria lamellata concentrica Rve.. Pilsbrv, Man. Conch., (2), XVIII, 

 p. 290, pi. 46, figs. 1-4. 



Two specimens were taken at Camp 39, M. & M. R. R., three at 

 Ttacoatiara and ten near the water works of the city of Pard. A 

 single dead specimen, taken at the Serra do Erere, was sent from the 

 Goeldi Museum. 



Xeptinaria perforata n. sp. PI. XXI, fig. 11. 



Shell l)roadly perforate, rather coarse, dirty white, but showing 

 slightly translucent in the young specimen ; coarsely, rather distantly 

 striate, with numerous fine intermediate striulse showing under a 

 glass; striae slightly retractive, arcuate, and becoming sinuous on 

 the lower whorls, clipping deeply into the broad and deep umbilicus. 

 Whorls Qh, of which the embryonic 1| are smooth, or with a trace of 

 spiral marking showing under a glass; vertical striae beginning on 

 the second whorl and becoming strong on the third; whorls very 

 ■convex above, almost shouldered, but less convex below; sutures 

 •deep, but not impressed. Aperture irregularly trapezoidal, slightly 

 broader below; outer lip simple, thin, forming nearly a right angle 

 with the parietal wall, but quickly descending and becoming sinuous; 

 •columella nearly straight, slightly reflected, but free from, and 

 scarcely covering the umbilicus; a rather broad, thin parietal callus 

 joining the extremities of the peristome and extending over the 

 columella. 




646 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Alt. 4.75, diam. 2.6, alt. of mouth 1.3 mm. 



The type and one half-grown specimen were taken at Camp 39, 

 M. & M. R. R. 



This species differs from all South American Leptinarias by the 

 broad uml)ilicus and the sinuous outer lip. 

 Leptinaria imperforata n. sp. PI. XXI, fig. 19. 



Shell imperforate, oblong conic, thin, pellucid, glossy, waxy hyaline, 

 very delicately striulate except on the smooth 1| nepionic whorls; 

 striulae slightly arcuate, nearly vertical, but tending to become 

 retractive on the base; all except the embryonic whorls showing an 

 obsolete spiral striation under a glass; apex rather obtuse. Whorls 

 5, convex, the last on its posterior aspect exactly equalling half the 

 total length. Aperture irregularly oval; peristome unexpanded, 

 simple, curving broadly below the columellar extremity; columella 

 short, not reaching to the base, nearly straight and vertical, obliquely 

 truncate, the anterior portion twisted sharply inward, thus leaving 

 no trace of an umbilicus or umbilical fold. 



Alt. 4.6, diam. 2, length of aperture 1.6, diam. of aperture .85 mm. 

 One mature and two immature specimens were taken at Camp 39, 

 M. & M. R. R. 



The species is closely related to L. anomala Pfr., from which it 

 differs by lacking the columellar reflection and the umbilicus, and by 

 its more slender shape and slightly narrower aperture. 



FBRUSSAOID^. 



Genus CiECILIOIDES Ferussac. 



Caecilioides (Geostilbia) gundlachi (Pfeiffer). 



Achatina gundlachi Pfr., Zeits. f. Malak., 18.50, p. 80. 



Ccecilioides gundlachi (Pfr.), Pilsbry, Man. Conch., (2), XX, p. 43. 



Eight specimens were sent by Mr. Rocha, ''taken in my garden," 



in the city of Ceara. The species has been reported from the West 



Indies and Demerara, but not hitherto from Brazil. 



Genus SYNAPTERPES Pilsbry. 

 Synapterpes sp. undet. 



Four nepionic shells, probably of this genus and possibly new, but 

 too young for exact diagnosis, were sent by Mr. Rocha. They were 

 taken on the Maranguape Mountain near Ceara. 



PUPILLID^. 



Genus BIFIDARIA Sterti. 

 Bifidaria sevilis (Gould). 



Pupa servilis Gld., Bcston Journ. N. H., IV, p. .3.56, pi. 16, fig. 14. 



Four specimens, taken "in the state of Ceara," were sent by Mr. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 647 



Rocha. They are slightly shorter than typical Cuban siDecimens 

 and the whorls are a little more convex. 



Genus STROBILOPS Pilsbry. 

 Strobilops brasiliana n. sp. PI. XXI, figs. 8, 9. 



Shell rather narrowly perforate, broadly conic with slightly convex 

 outlines, subcarinate at the periphery, and with a moderately rounded 

 base; color light chestnut, a thin, close epidermis present; apex 

 obtuse; first 1| whorls nearly smooth, and, beginning on the second 

 whorl, everywhere sculptured with irregularly spaced, narrow, 

 sharp, strongly retractive costae, much weakened on the base, but 

 extending into the umbilicus, separated by broad, nearlj^ flat inter- 

 spaces marked by gro^vth lines, the costae being rather close on the 

 third whorl and wddely separated on the last (about six to the 

 millimeter on the penultimate whorl). Whorls 5|, moderately con- 

 vex; sutures well impressed. Aperture irregularly triangular; 

 peristome thickened and slightly reflected, extremities not approach- 

 ing and joined by a heavy callus, which is sharply defined externally 

 and dips deeply into the mouth, over which are laid two revolving 

 lamellae which reach the exterior edge of the callus, one very large 

 just exterior to the middle of the parietal wall and a second of less 

 than half the size half way between this and the columella; columella 

 marked near the top by a third quite prominent revolving lamella, 

 leaving a very narrow slit between it and the parietal wall; base 

 showing externally two revolving lines, probably representing internal 

 basal revolving laminae. 



Alt. 2.22, greatest diam. 2.61, least diam. 2.4 mm. 



Eight living specimens, all apparently mature, were taken under 

 the bark of a decaying tree in the dense forest surrounding water 

 works of the city of Para. 



The species is the first representative of this genus to be taken 

 south of the Amazon River, so far as is known to the Avriter. 



SUCOINEID^. 



Genus SUCCINEA Draparnaud. 

 Suocinea pusilla Pfeiffer. 



Mon. Hel. Viv., Ill, p. 18; Conchyl. Cabinet, Succinea,. pi. .5, figs. 27-29. 

 Two dead specimens, one taken at Baixa Verde, a second from 

 Ceara sent by Mr. Rocha, agree in the main with this species as 

 described by Pfeiffer with some doubt as from Ceara. They are 

 somewhat larger and do not show the obsolete decussation mentioned 

 by him, but this may be due to their being worn. 




648 proceedings of the academy of [dec, 



Fresh-water Shells. 

 MELANIID^. 



No specimen of this family was taken by the members of the 

 Stanford Expedition, the following species being represented by 

 specimens sent from the Goeldi Museum, 



Genus DOEYSSA H. and A. Adams. 



A rather extensive series of shells of this genus from the lower 

 Amazon and its tributaries seemed to unite the species inconspicua 

 Brot, transversa Lea, and niacapa Moricand in so puzzling a manner 

 that the writer referred the whole group to Dr. Pilsbry for critical 

 examination. Dr. Pilsbry kindly assorted the shells and wrote the 

 following notes and descriptions of new species and varieties, and he 

 has allowed their publication in this paper, 



''The Doryssas of the lower Amazon Valley are all, so far as authen- 

 tically localized specimens are available, specifically distinct from 

 those of Pernambuco and southward, and also from those of Guiana, 

 though obviously related to the latter, as would be expected from the 

 intercommunication of inland waters. Aside from certain species 

 described from 'South America,' 'Brazil,' or 'Amazon,' and as yet with- 

 out known local habitation, the following have been reported from the 

 lower Amazon Valley: 



"D. aquatilis (Reeve), Melania branca Reeve, and M. charpentieri 

 Reeve, Rio Branco. 



"D. macapa (Moricand), Macapd. 



"D. transversa (Lea). Guiana, Cuming coll., probably incorrect; 

 Amazon River, Brot. 



"D, hullata (Lea), Melania ventricosa Moricand, M. hatesii 

 Reeve. Macapd. 



"D. lumbricus (Reeve), Pard, 



" D. inconspicua Brot. Brazil. 



"An upper Amazon form, D. consolidata (Brug.), has been reported 

 from the Rio Branco, whether correctly or not is uncertain. Up to 

 this time, no species of Doryssa has been reported from the southern 

 affluents of the Amazon. 



"D. transversa, macapa, aquatilis, and inconspicua are modifications 

 of a single type of shell, and, until far more material is at hand, it 

 will not be possible to say whether they are to be regarded as so 

 many distinct species or as local races of one wide-spread species. 

 Each river seems to have its slightly individualized race or races, 

 but the localities are still so scattered that we have no adequate 

 knowledge of how much intergradation exists. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 649 



"Doryssa transversa (Lea). 



" Mdiinia transversa Lea, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1850, p. 186. 

 "Milania transversa Lea, Reeve, Conch. Icon., fig. 196a-c. 



"The typical form is a larger shell, with more spiral grooves than 

 the forms noticed below. Its exact location is unknown. 

 " Doryssa transversa jaryensis Pilsbry, n. subsp. PI. XXIV, figs. 1 to 7. 



"The shell is spirally grooved, five grooves on each whorl of the 

 spire, becoming weaker on the last whorl in most specimens. Minute 

 spiral lineolation is clearly developed. Axial sculpture of slightly 

 arcuate or nearly straight folds, which rarely persist as far as the 

 last whorl, usually being present on the spire or upper whorls only. 

 The whorls are nearly flat. Color Dresden-brown, Isabella color, 

 or honey-yellow, with small, irregularly^ scattered black spots, or 

 with numerous spots, more or less arranged in axial rows or confluent 

 into streaks which nearly cover the surface in some shells. Un- 

 cleaned shells are black from a coating of iron oxide. Apex truncate. 



"Length 30, diam. 12 mm.; 4^ whorls remaining. 

 " 32, " 11.25 " 6 



"Rio Jar}', St. Antonio da Cachoeira, in bed of river immediately 

 above the great falls. Twenty-four specimens. 



"Figs. 5, 6, 7 represent typical specimens. Fig. 3 is the most 

 strongly sculptured shell of the lot. Fig. 2 is not fully mature, 

 retaining more of the early whorls. 

 "Doryssa transversa tapajozensis Pilsbry, n. subsp. PI. XXIV, figs. 8, 9, 11, 12. 



"The shell tapers to a rather broad truncation in adult individuals. 

 Spiral grooves, five on each whorl of the spire, continuing on the 

 last whorl, and usually darker colored than the intervals, which are 

 of a dull citrine or olive-citrine shade. Microscopic lineolation weak 

 or subobsolete on the later whorls. Axial folds narrow, numerous, 

 typically well developed only on the earlier whorls, being weak, 

 irregular, or wanting on the later one to three whorls; sometimes, 

 however, continued to the last whorl. 



"Length 25, diam. 11.2 mm.; 4j whorls remaining. 

 " 23.7, " 11.5 " 3| " 



" 29, " 11.7 " 5 " " Roughly sculp- 



tured individual. 



"Rio Tapajoz, seven specimens. 



"While the form with obsolete axial sculpture and spiral dark 

 greenish lines is rather distinct in appearance, it intergrades with 

 more strongly sculptured shells which closely resemble the sculp- 

 tured form of D. t. jaryensis, which, however, has more distinct 

 43 




650 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



spiral lineolation. The sculptured form is evidently more primitive, 

 the derivative smooth forms being different in the two rivers. 



"Three similar shells were received from the Rio Jamauchim, an 

 affluent of the Tapajoz on the right side. The smooth phase is here 

 light citrine with greenish-black lines in the grooves, and the sculp- 

 tured phase is somewhat larger. See PI. XXIV, figs. 8, 9. A quite 

 young shell of the sculptured form is honey-yellow, with very few 

 small black spots. 



"Doryssa transversa, var. near macapa Moric. PI. XXIV, figs. 13, 14. 



"This form has very strong sculpture. Spiral grooves 6 or 7 on 

 each whorl of the spire. Microscopic spirals weak or wanting on the 

 last whorl. Axial folds strong, slightly curved, a little protractive, 

 on the last whorl straight or sigmoid. Color russet, indistinctly 

 variegated with black streaks or bands. 



"Length 44.5, diam. 16 mm.; 7 whorls remaining. 



"Rio Maccuru, four specimens, and a single specimen from the 

 Rio Jar5' probably belongs here. 



"Differs from D. macapa by the truncate top and better-developed 

 sculpture, but seems too near that for separation. It is doubtless 

 "a form of the polymorphic transversa. 

 "Doryssa inconspicua Brot. 



"Conchylien Cabinet, p. 355, figs. 2, 2a. 



"Nine specimens come from the Ilha de Goyana, Rio Tapajoz, 

 nine from the Rio Maccuru, and one from Tucunare on the Rio 

 Jamauchim. 



"The species is perhaps distinct by its small size, etc., but it is 

 very near some forms of transversa. 

 "Doryssa rex Pilsbry, n. sp. PI. XXIV, figs. 10, 15. 



"Shell large, tapering to a narrow truncation. Spiral grooves 

 about 6 on the whorls of the spire, becoming wider on the last whorl, 

 where the intervals are coarse and cord-like. Microscopic lineola- 

 tion obsolete. Axial ribs slightly protractive, irregular, or obsolete 

 on the last half whorl, about 12 on the penultimate whorl. Upper 

 whorls nearly flat. Suture deepening on the last whorl, which is 

 produced in a prominent keel defining a broad, horizontal shoulder 

 below the suture, as in D. devians Brot. Color dull olive-citrine,. 

 in places passing into chestnut. 



"Length 71.5, diam. 28 mm.; 7| whorls remaining. 

 " 67, " 24.5 " 7h " 



" 73, " 27.5 " Sf " 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 651 



"Rio Jary, six specimens, one very immature. 



"Similar to D. rex regina, but having coarser spirals, a larger 

 aperture and more deviating last whorl. These two are more nearly 

 related to D. 7nacapa Moric. than to transversa by the greater number 

 of spirals. With present knowledge, they seem specifically distinct 

 from both. The young stage resembles D. transversa jaryensis. 

 "Doryssa rex regina Pilsbry, n. subsp. PI. XXIV, figa. 16, 17. 



"The shell is large and tapers to a narrow truncation. Spiral 

 grooves numerous, strongest on the last whorl, seven or eight on the 

 penultimate whorl; microscopic lineolation obsolete on the later 

 whorls. Axial folds strong, slightly protractive, extending upon 

 the last whorl, about 12 on the penultimate whorl. Upper whorls 

 nearly flat, penultimate whorl more convex. Suture deepening on 

 the last whorl, which in its last half forms a narrow horizontal 

 shoulder below it. When cleaned of the rusty black incrustation, 

 the spire is tawny, becoming more yellowish above, indistinctly 

 maculate with black, last whorl bay. 



"Length 67.5, diam. 22.7 mm.; 7| whorls remaining. 

 " 68, " 21.5 " 9" " 



"Rio Jary, St. Antonio da Cachoeira, ten specimens. 



"This is related to the preceding form, in which the same characters 

 are more exaggerated. In specimens evidently adult, and of the 

 same length, D. rex regina is decidedly narrower with a shorter 

 aperture. Very likely a distinct species." 



Doryssa buUata (Lea). 



Melania bullata L^a, Obs. Gen. Univ., XI, p. 85, t. 22, fig. 29. 

 Twenty-four specimens come from the Rio Jary near St. Antonio 

 da Cachoeira "in the bed of the main river, immediately above the 

 great falls." 



Doryssa globosa n. sp. PL XXV, figs. 1, 2. 



Shell rather light for the genus, globose conic, with sides nearly 

 straight and forming an apical angle of about fifty degrees, covered 

 with a dense epidermis shading from yellow-olive on the base to 

 dark brown above, having well-developed spiral keels and vertical 

 ribs, the former better developed than the latter which become 

 obsolete on the base, their intersection being markedly tuberculate, 

 the tubercles elongate on spiral lines; lines of growth strong, with 

 fine spiral striae, showing in places under a glass, in the interspaces 

 of the spiral keels; first two whorls with four spiral keels, the last 

 two with five, the added keel beginning in the suture and becoming 




652 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



the lowest on the last two whorls; base with nine keels, nearly 

 equally spaced and nearly equal, except the first, which shows a slight 

 tendency to tuberculation; interspaces rather broader than the 

 keels; last two whorls with twenty vertical ribs, the preceding with 

 eighteen; apex eroded, with about four whorls remaining; upper 

 whorls moderately convex, the last, with the base, well rounded; 

 sutures well marked. Aperture slightly oblique, broadly ovate, 

 whitish, shading to yellowish on the columella, smooth, except on 

 the parietal wall, over most of which the epidermis and basal keels 

 extend for more than a whole turn within the shell, leaving a narrow 

 space above occupied by a callus carrying a shallow posterior canal; 

 outer and lower lips, though somewhat broken, seeming to be mod- 

 erately sharp and crenulated by the external sculpture; columella 

 very concave, scarcely revolute, somewhat flattened externally, the 

 surface thus formed extending to the effuse lower lip. 



Estimated alt, 46, actual alt. 41, greatest diam. 28, length of 

 aperture 20.5 mm. 



A single dead specimen of this species was taken in the Igarape de 

 Paituna near Monte Alegre, Fazendo Ponto. 



Doryssa starksi n. sp. PI. XXV, figs. 5, 6, 13, 14. 



Shell varying from broadly ovate conic to rather narrowly conic, 

 very solid and heavy and with a very dense epidermis; color varying 

 from dark olive-brown to nearly black ; sculpture varying, some 

 specimens showing both strong, nearly vertical to slightly retractive 

 ribs and spiral keels throughout the whole shell, others having weak 

 vertical ribs only on the last whorl and spiral keels which become 

 nearly obsolete on the upper whorls; the most globose specimen 

 (type) with the vertical ribs more marked than the spiral keels. 

 Apex eroded in all specimens, the remaining whorls of the type 3|, 

 scarcely convex; last whorl with eleven very strong vertical ribs, 

 the penultimate with fifteen, the next with sixteen, the ribs weakening 

 towards the apex; spiral keels five, with a sixth forming in some 

 specimens in the lower sutures or by intercalation; well-marked 

 growth lines and very distinct incised spiral striae over the whole 

 shell, the latter visible under a strong glass; intersections of the 

 ribs and keels producing tubercles which are slightly produced spi- 

 rally; tubercles of the third, fourth, and sometimes the fifth keels of 

 the last whorl generally much enlarged, producing a subangulation 

 at the periphery; base moderately rounded, showing faint continua- 

 tions of the vertical ribs and marked by seven or eight subequal 

 keels with broader interspaces, the interspaces narrowing slightly 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 653 



towards the bottom, the keels showing some tendency to irregular 

 tuberculation. Aperture very oblique, oblong ovate, subangulate 

 above and below, whitish within, tending to yellowish on the colu- 

 mella; parietal wall with a rather strong callus above in which lies a 

 well-marked posterior canal, below covered by an extension of the 

 epidermis and spiral sculpture which reaches well within the mouth; 

 outer lip crenulated by the external sculpture, rounded rather 

 evenly into and through the lower lip, which is effuse in a nearly 

 horizontal plane, the so-called ''auger-shaped lip" of Lea; columella 

 slightly concave, scarcely revolute, nearly vertical, and joining the 

 shovel-shaped base nearly at a right angle. 



Estimated altitude of the type 55.5, actual alt. 45.5, diam. 27.5, 

 length of aperture 21, width of aperture 12 mm. 



The slenderest specimen with 4| remaining whorls measures 

 alt. 49.5, diam. 25 mm. 



Nine specimens come from the Rio Iriri, an affluent of the Rio 

 Xingii on the left side. The species, which seems to be new, is 

 somewhat related to D. pernambucensis Rve., which is a much more 

 slender shell. It is named for Professor E. C. Starks, of Stanford 

 University, a member of the Expedition. 



Doryssa heathi n. sp. PI. XXV, figs, 3, 4, 7. 



Shell turreted, solid, tapering somewhat irregularly to the beginning 

 of the last whorl, at which point a definite spiral constriction begins 

 which extends to the aperture; spire varying greatly in different 

 specimens, only one of which (type) is mature, some tapering regu- 

 larly, others almost pupseform ; epidermis very dense, shining ; 

 color varying from dark olive-brown to almost black; initial whorls 

 lost in all specimens, remaining whorls, except the last, nearly smooth, 

 but showing growth lines and, under a glass, minute spiral strise 

 everywhere, and a tendency to the formation of low, rounded spiral 

 keels, two at the top and one at the bottom of each whorl; sutures 

 well impressed, producing slight shouldering in some specimens; 

 sculpture changing abruptly at the beginning of the last whorl, at 

 which point a distinct, slightly tuberculate vertical rib appears, 

 followed by fourteen others which are more marked and crossed by 

 five well-defined spiral keels, the periphery of the whorl being dis- 

 tinctly biangulate by the development of two rows of strong tubercles 

 on the third and fourth keels, the first and second keels becoming 

 moderately tuberculate on the last quarter turn, the last keel being 

 slightly tuberculate throughout; base well rounded, circled by four 

 nearly equal and equally spaced keels, which roughen as they advance, 




654 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



showing a tendency to become tuberculate. Apex eroded in all 

 specimens, about 4 whorls of the type remaining intact, the varia- 

 bility of the immature specimens making it impossible to estimate 

 how many are lacking. Aperture oblique, of an evenly distorted 

 pear shape, light colored within except where the epidermis extends 

 over the lower portion of the parietal wall for about half a turn, 

 separating the dirty white callus on the upper portion, with its indis- 

 tinct posterior canal, from the yellowish nacre of the concave, slightly 

 revolute columella; outer lip sharp, crenulated by the external 

 sculpture; basal lip effuse at a point rather distant from the base 

 of the columella. 



Alt. 44.5, diam. 17, length of aperture 13 mm. 



Eleven specimens were taken, presumably with the last species, 

 in the Rio Iriri. 



This species is related to D. rixosa Ihering by the smooth initial 

 whorls, tending to show spiral sculpture, but it differs in the develop- 

 ment of strong, tuberculate, vertical ribs on the last whorl and in 

 the oblique, concave, revolute columella. It is named for Dr. 

 Harold Heath, of Stanford University, a member of the Expedition. 



There is a curious relationship shown by the members of the group 

 including D. rixosa and the last three species, passing from the 

 elongate D. rixosa with only spiral sculpture, showing mostly on the 

 last whorl, through the elongate D. heathi with a similar spire, but 

 having on the last whorl strong vertical ribs and spiral keels with a 

 subangulation Ijy the two rows of tubercles, and through the stouter 

 D. starksi with a very similar sculpturing of the last whorl, but with 

 the earlier whorls ranging from rather smooth to heavily sculptured 

 and tuberculate, to the globose D. globosa with its almost regular 

 costate and tuberculate sculpture throughout. In all, unless it be 

 D. rixosa, which I have had no opportunity of examining, the keels 

 are in series of fives, and in the last two there is a marked tendency 

 to the elongation of the tubercles along spiral lines. All are very 

 distinct species, but it is not improbable that two or more of them 

 may ultimately have to be united with varietal rank when the field 

 shall have been fully explored and full suites of all the species secured. 

 Doryssa iheringi n. sp. Pi. XXV, fig. 8. 



Shell turreted conic, solid, tapering regularly; epidermis rather 

 heav}^, slightly shining, light chestnut to very dark brown, the 

 lighter specimens marked by small, irregular, and irregularly placed 

 black spots; initial whorls lost in all specimens, remaining whorls 

 rather flat, showing obsolete vertical ribs at the top which fade into 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 655 



exaggerated growth lines below, and very indistinct, rather distant, 

 spiral incised lines which become fairly well marked on the base and 

 part of the last whorl, producing low, flattened costse; sutures 

 slightly impressed. Apex eroded in all specimens; greatest number 

 of whorls persisting 5|. Aperture oblique, pyriform, bluish-white 

 within, the external black spots showing through when they are 

 present; outer and lower lips thin and sharp, lower lip much produced 

 and curving sharply and smoothly into the base of the columella; 

 more mature specimens with a dense, but limited callus on the 

 parietal wall above the strongly concave and slightly revolute 

 columella. 



The type with 4| whorls measures, alt. 35, diam. 13, length of 

 aperture 15.5 mm. 



The longest specimen with 5^ whorls measures alt. 38.5, diam. 

 13.25 mm. 



This species, which seems to be new, is related to D. heathi from 

 which it differs by its smaller size and lighter weight, more regular 

 form and more slender shape, and by the absence of the microscopic 

 spiral lines which are very characteristic of the latter species. There 

 is a tendency to a somewhat similar change of sculpture on the final 

 whorl. More mature specimens may show the present species to be 

 only a variety of D. heathi. 



Five specimens, varying somewhat in shape, but of nearly the same 

 apparent age, come from the Rio Jary at St. Antonio da Cachoeira. 

 The species is named for Dr. Hermann von Ihering, of the Museu 

 Paulista at Sao Paulo, Brazil, 



Doryssa cachoeirae n. sp. PI. XXV, fig. 9. 



Shell very regularly turreted conic, of medium weight, with a dense 

 epidermis varying from light yellow-olive in young shells to appar- 

 ently nearly black in those more mature; everywhere marked with 

 small, irregularly placed and shaped spots, which occasionally 

 coalesce to form longitudinal stripes, these spots well defined in young 

 shells, but only perceptible by transmitted light in the older and 

 darker ones; all specimens everywhere marked with fine, close 

 incised spiral striae, barely perceptible with the naked eye, and 

 overlying about nine low, broad, flattened, nearly equal spiral cords 

 which cover the whole base of the more mature specimens; apical 

 angle about 35 degrees; nepionic whorls eroded in all specimens, 

 but probably not more than three, slightly roughened, but without 

 defined sculpture, and, beginning rather abruptly on the postnepionie 

 whorls, the rather regular growth lines are soon decussated by the 




656 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



more distinct spiral strife over the whole shell ; periphery of the last 

 whorl sharply angulate. Remaining whorls of the largest specimen 

 (type) 4^, with probably two or three postnepionic whorls wanting, 

 nearly flat; sutures lightly impressed. Aperture oblique, elongate 

 pyriform; outer lip thin, simple, joining the parietal wall at an acute 

 angle, straight for over half its length, then curving sharply into the 

 produced basal lip; columella concave, smooth, scarcely revolute, 

 subangulate at its junction with the basal lip; parietal wall with a 

 thin, brown callus overlying, but not completely obscuring the epi- 

 dermis and basal sculpture where it extends well within the aperture. 



Alt. 19.5, diam. 8.5, length of aperture 7.75 mm. 



This species is distinguished from D. hohenackeri Phil, of Surinam, 

 by its smaller size, conic form, and absence of axial folds. 



Three specimens come from the Rio Jary and sixteen specimens 

 from near St. Antonio da Cachceira, "in a side arm of the Rio Jary 

 full of rapids." 

 Doryssa cachoeirae sulcata n. subsp. PI. XXV, fig. 10. 



Three specimens taken in the Rio Jary with three of the type 

 specimens differ from the type by being less sharply angulate at the 

 periphery of the last whorl and by being sculptured throughout the 

 whole shell with a continuation of the low spiral cords found only 

 on the base of the type. The whorls of the subspecies are also less 

 positively flattened than those of the type. 

 Doryssa tucunareensis n. sp. PI. XXV, figs. 11, 12. 



Shell of moderate weight, ovate conic, with nearly straight sides, 

 covered by a thin epidermis; color yellowish-brown to chestnut and 

 marked by small, sparsely scattered black spots which are generally 

 irregularly placed, but may form axial rows; everywhere marked by 

 low-rounded, distinct, but not prominent, nearly equal spiral cords, 

 five to a whorl, with six or seven on the base, the intervening spaces 

 rather sharply incised and narrower than the cords; about twenty 

 vertical to slightly protractive and arcuate axial ribs present on the 

 early whorls, never very prominent, and becoming obsolete on the 

 last whorl and base; growth lines very prominent over the whole 

 shell. Apex eroded, remaining whorls 4, very slightly convex and 

 indistinctly shouldered above ; sutures scarcely impressed. Aperture 

 markedly oblique, broad ovate, whitish within except where the 

 external maculae show through; outer and lower lips sharp and 

 slightly crenulated by the external sculpture, base effuse; columella 

 very convex, rounding into the parietal wall which is covered by a 

 well-marked callus with a distinct posterior canal. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 657 



Estimated alt. 30, actual alt. 25.5, diameter 14.75, length of 

 aperture 11.5, width of aperture 7.75 m:m. 



Two specimens of this species were taken at Tucmiare on the Rio. 

 Jamauchim. The sculpture is of the type of the D. transversa group, 

 being somewhat similar to that of D. inconspicua, but the shell is- 

 very much more obese than any member of that group. 



Genus HEMISINUS Swainson. 

 Hemisinus brasiliensis (Moricand). 



Melanopsis brasiliensis Moric, Mem. de la Soc. <,Le Phvs. et d'Hist. Xat. 

 de Geneve, VIII, p. 144, pi. .3, figs. 12, 13 (1837). 



About fifty specimens come from Alcobaga on the left l)ank of the 

 lower Tocantins. 

 Hemisinus flammeus n. sp. PI. XXV, fig. 15. 



Shell ovate conic, rather heavy; epidermis rather light, slightly 

 shining; color yellow-olive, marked with long, black flames, generally 

 rather narrower than the intervening light spaces; growth lines 

 showing distinctly, and everywhere marked by rather shallow, 

 distant spiral sulci, obsolete above in some specimens, and becoming 

 more defined and closer on the base. Apex lost in all specimens,, 

 remaining whorls 2j to 4, scarcely convex, indistinctly shouldered 

 below the sutures, subangulate below the periphery of the last whorL 

 Aperture oblique, narrowly elliptical, very acutely angled above, 

 bluish-white within except where the external flammules show 

 through; outer lip thin, sharp, rather evenly curved to an angle with 

 the produced, truncate base; parietal Avail without callus, the 

 epidermis and external sculpture extending within the aperture 

 beyond the lein of vision; columella slightly concave above, nearly 

 straight and vertical below, obliquely truncate at the base; anterior 

 canal well marked. Type with 3 whorls, alt. 23.5, diam. 11.5, length 

 of aperture 13, width of aperture 6.5 mm. 



Most mature specimen with 2^ whorls, alt. 22, diam. 12 mm. 

 Six specimens of this species, come from the Rio Jamauchim. It is 

 smaller and rather more slender than H. zebra Rve., which it resembles 

 in color pattern and seems to be more closely related to H. venezue- 

 lensis Rve. and H. bicinctus Rve., but differs radically from both of 

 them in color pattern and somewhat in general contour and shape 

 of whorls. 

 Hemisinus flammeus elongatus n. sub&p. PI. XXV, fig. lf>. 



Two specimens taken in the Rio Jamauchim, at a different date 

 and possibly at a different location from the preceding, dift"er from 




658 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



the type by being more slender, more irregularly flammulate, less 

 distinctly shouldered below the sutures, and by having the spiral 

 sulci more persistent and deeper and the aperture broader and 

 shorter. 



Alt. 21, diam. 9, length of aperture 9, width 4.25 mm.; whorls 3|. 



AMNICOLID^. 



• Genus LITTORIDINA Souleyet. 



Littoridina manni n. sp. PI. XXVI, fig. 15. 



Shell distinctly rimate, but not perforate, rather thin, ovate conic, 

 of a dark olivaceous-yellow color, lightly marked by growth lines, 

 crossed by more distinct, irregularly sized and spaced spiral costulse, 

 showing under a glass on the last two whorls; spire straightly conic, 

 apex minute, slightly obtuse and dimpled. Whorls 4|, all moderately 

 convex and regularly increasing; sutures well defined, but not im- 

 pressed. Aperture veiy slightly oblique, ovate, white; peristome 

 simple, continuous, very evenly curved, and showing a very delicate, 

 whitish thickening within; outer lip joining the parietal wall at an 

 angle of about ninety degrees; inner margin continuous, in contact 

 with the preceding whorl; a delicate, deeply sinused callus joining 

 the extremities and extending well within the aperture. Alt. 3.17, 

 diam. 2, alt. of mouth 1.15 mm. 



Two specimens differing slightly in size were taken on the north 

 bank of the chief affluent of Papary Lake near its mouth. 



The species resembles L. charruana Orb., but differs by the presence 

 of spiral striations and by the distribution of callus within the mouth. 

 I have named the species for Mr. W. M. Mann, the entomologist 

 of the Expedition, who alone, of the members of the Expedition, 

 accompanied me on that portion of the trip extending up the Amazon 

 and to the ^Madeira and Mamore Rivers, and who aided me greatly 

 in the collection of mollusks. 



Genus IDIOPYRGUS Pilsbry. 

 Idiopyrgus pilsbryi n. sp. PI. XXVI, figs. 13, 14. 



Shell perforate, turreted, solid, opaque, olive-green, becoming 

 lighter on the last whorl; spire tapering regularly to the apex, which 

 is eroded in both specimens; surface smooth except for faint growth 

 lines, rather dull. Whorls 4|, all strongly convex, separated by deep 

 sutures. Aperture oval, oblique, the basal margin only slightly 

 advanced, the outer lip retracting upward; peristome continuous, 

 outer lip slightly expanded, somewhat thickened within, with a 

 rounded sinus jiist below the upper insertion and a small sinus at 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 659 



the juncture of the outer and basal margins; columella and parietal 

 margins continuous, forming a raised ledge across the parietal wall. 



Alt., estimated in full, 4.1, diam. 2.15, length of aperture 1.15 mm. 



Two specimens were taken with the last near the head of Papary 

 Lake. 



This species differs from /. souleyetanus Pils. by its darker color, 

 fewer whorls and slightly smaller size. It is the second species of 

 the genus to be taken, the other, I. souleyetanus Pils., having been 

 taken at Rio Doce, state "of Espiritu Santo, in southern Brazil. 

 In his description Dr. Pilsbry remarks, ''It is probably a straggler 

 from the fauna of eastern Brazil, of which little is known," a shrewd 

 deduction which the discovery of 7. pUshryi confirms. The species 

 is named for Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, who characterized the genus. 



AMPULLARIID^. 



Genus AMPULLARIA Lamarck. 

 Ampullaria gigas Spix. 



Testae, fluv. bras., p. 1, tab. 1, 2. 



Ten specimens were taken at Itacoatiara and one large and four 

 half-grown specimens were sent from the Goeldi Museum, the first 

 taken on the Island of Mexiana, two at Baiao on the right bank of 

 the Rio Tocantins, and two at Arumanduba, Parana de Almeirim. 

 Ampullaria figulina Spix. 



L.C., p. 4, tab. iv, fig. 4. 



Dead shells of this species were taken quite commonly on the 

 shores of Lake Estremoz and three specimens taken in the Igarape 

 de Paituna, near Monte Alegre, Fazenda Ponto, and eight taken 

 ''in the wet plains near Arumanduba," Parana de Almeirim, were 

 sent from the Goeldi Museum. 

 Ampullaria insularum Orbigny. 



Voyage dans rAmer. ]Merid., p. 371, pi. 51, figs. 1, 2. 



This shell was rather common in the streams about Papar>^, asso- 

 ciated with the commoner A. testudinea Rve., and the Goeldi Museum 

 sent seven specimens taken in the Rio Nhamunda at Fazenda Paraiso, 

 near Faro, six from Boim e Pinhel, on the right bank of the Rio 

 Tapajoz, three from Monte Alegre, Igarape Pucii, and five from 

 Arumanduba, Parana de Almeirim. Von Ihering (Anal. Mus. Nac. 

 Bs. As., VI, Aug. 3, 1898) considers this species synonymous with 

 A. gigas Spix. All shells examined, while showing the same general 

 form and deep sutures, were easily separated by the much lighter 

 weight of the shells and the more open umbilicus. 




660 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.,. 



Ampullaria lineata Spix. 



L.c, p. 3, tab. V, fig. 2. 



Four specimens were taken in the artificial lake on the water front 

 at Ceara, a single specimen near the Guajara-Assu Falls on the 

 Mamore River, and two specimens were sent by Mr. G. A. Waring 

 "from the lower portion of the Rio Mossoro in the state of Rio 

 Grande do Norte. 

 Ampullaria nobilis Reeve. 



Conch. Icon., 1858, pi. ii, fig. 8. 



Five specimens were taken in a small stream in the suburbs of 

 Para and ten taken on the Island of Mexiana, one from the Rio 

 Jamauchim and one from Baiao on the right bank of the Rio Tocan- 

 tins were sent from the Goeldi Museum. 

 Ampullaria peristomata Orbigny. 



Magazin de Zoologie, 1835, p. 32; Voyage, pi. 52, figs. 4-6. 



Three or four specimens of this species, which is characteristic of 

 the head waters of the Madeira River System, were taken on a sand 

 bank below the Guajara-Assu Falls and about thirty specimens at 

 Camp 43, M. & M. R. R.; three specimens were sent from the 

 Goeldi Museum, one each from the Rios Tapajoz, Jamauchim, and 

 Maccurii. Two specimens brought through without water proved, 

 to be alive and in good condition when put into water at the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia about two months later. 

 Ampullaria testudinea Reeve. 



Conch. Icon., X, pi. xxiv, fig. 114 (1856). 



This was the commonest Ampullaria at Papary and at Ceara- 

 Mirim; three young shells were taken at Maranhao, and a single 

 specimen from the Rio Maccuru was sent from the Goeldi Museum. 

 Ampullaria bridgesii Reeve. 



Conch. Icon., X, pi. .\i, fig. 50, (1856). 



About forty specimens were taken at Para, a single very large and. 

 heavy dead specimen at Camp 43, M. & M. R. R., two specimens 

 were sent by Mr. G. A. Waring from "the lower portion of the Rio. 

 Mossoro, Rio Grande do Norte," and four were sent from the Goeldi 

 Museum, one from the Igarape de Paituna near Monte Alegre, 

 Fazenda Ponto, two from the Rio Maccuru, and one from the Igarape 

 Pucii, Monte Alegre. 

 Ampullaria crassa Swainson. 



Zoological Illustrations, No. 28, tab. 136. 



Six specimens taken "in the water-filled stone holes in the drv bed 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 661 



of a small affluent of the Rio Jary near the great falls" near St. 

 Antonio da Cachoeira were sent from the Goeldi Museum. They 

 seem to fall into this species, although they are proportionally 

 slightly narrower than is typical for the species. 



Genus MAEISA Gray. 



Marisa cornu-arietis Linne. 



Syst. Nat., X, p. 771, No. 590. 

 A single specimen of this species, taken at Alcobaga, on the Rio 

 Tocantins, was sent from the Goeldi Museum. 



PHYSID^. 



Genus PHYSA Draparnaud. 

 Physa rivalis (Maton and Rackett). 



Bulla rivalis M. and R., Trans. Linn. Soc. London, VIH, 1807, p. 126, pL 



4, fig. 2. 

 Physa sowerbyana Orbigny, in Sagi'a, Hist. fis. polit. e nat. de la Isla de Cuba, 



Moluscos, p. 101, pi. 13, figs. 11-13, 1845. 



About fifty specimens were taken in an artificial lake in the park 

 in front of the Cathedral of Para, half a dozen in Papar}^ Lake, and a 

 single dead specimen taken at Ceara-Mirim seems to be the same. 



Physa sp. undet. 



Forty or fifty young specimens taken at Maranhao seem somewhat 

 different from the preceding, but may be the same. They are too 

 young to diagnose with certainty. 



PLANORBID^. 



Genus PLANORBIS ISIiiller. 



Planorbis anatinus Orbigny. 



P. anatinus (Planorbe des Canardes) Orb., Voyage, V, pt. 3, p. 361, pi. 45, 

 figs. 17-20. 



About twenty-five specimens were taken with Physa rivalis in the 

 artificial lake in Para. 

 Planorbis cultratus Orbigny. 



In Sagra, I.e., p. 105, No. 115, pi. xiv, figs. 5, 8. 



Half a dozen specimens were taken near the mouth of the principal 

 affluent of Lake Papar^^ . This is the southern known limit for the 

 species. 



Planorbis cimex Moricand. 



Thirteen specimens were taken with the preceding. 

 Planorbis guadeloupensis Sowerby. 



Genera of Shells, Planorbis, fig. 2, (1824?). 



This shell was taken commonly with the preceding two near Lake 




662 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Papary and was not rare on the shores of Lake Estremoz, all specimens 

 having been taken dead. So far as is known to the writer, this 

 species has not been taken before in South America, and this is the 

 southern known limit for the species. 

 Flanorbis stramineus Dunker. 



Conchylien Cabinet, p. 4, pi. v, fig. 7a. 

 Specimens were taken with the preceding at Papary Lake, at 

 Ceara-Mirim, and at Ceara. There are about half a dozen very 

 similar forms of Planorbis described from South America, not figured 

 or imperfectly figured, quite possibly reducible to one or two species. 

 Planorbis stramineus Dunker seems to be the first of these to be 

 described. 



Planorbis depressissimus Moricand. 



Mem. de la Soc. de Phys. et d'Hist. Nat. de Geneve, VIII, 1S39, p. 143, pL 

 3, figs. 10, 11. 



One specimen of this species "from the Coast Region of Ceara" 

 was sent by Mr. Rocha. 



Planorbis peregrinus Orbigny. 



Magazin de Zoologie, 1835, p. 26; Voyage, p. 348, pi. 44, figs. 13-16. 

 One specimen ''from the Coast Region of Ceara" was sent by 

 Mr. Rocha. 



Segmentina paparyensis n. sp. PI. XXVI, figs. 9, 10, 11. 



Shell dextral, broadly, rather deeply umbilicate, rather solid, 

 planorboid, everywhere sculptured with minute, retractive, sharp 

 costulse, irregularly sized and spaced, the interspaces being broader, 

 and showing on the base, under a strong glass, minute spiral striations 

 formed by the crinkling of the radiating costulae; light horn colored. 

 Whorls 4, regularly increasing, the last subangulate below the 

 periphery behind the outer lip for about \ turn, scarcely angulate 

 below, very sharply descending at the mouth; apex depressed, only 

 the last two whorls reaching the upper level of the shell. Aperture 

 very oblique, subhorizontal, rounded; lip simple, not thickened nor 

 sharpened, slightly reflected at the lower angle, extremities, 

 approaching, and joined by a slight callus in some specimens; aper- 

 tural lamellae five, two parietal and three (palatal) on the outer wall; 

 upper parietal lamella about central, the lower about midway between 

 this and the columellar junction and appearing about half the size 

 on external inspection, both showing a nearly triangular section, the 

 lower sides being nearly horizontal, the upper ascending; lower 

 palatal lamella beginning near the suture and extending nearly 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 663 



transversely across the base, and slightly up the outer side, straight 

 and rather evenly arched; remaining palatal lamellae deep within 

 the shell, nearly horizontal, short, the lower one slightly larger. 



Greatest diam. 6, least diam. 5.25, alt. 2 mm. 



Two specimens of this species, which seems to be new, were taken 

 near the mouth of the main affluent of Papar^^ Lake with the species 

 noted above. 



It differs from S. janeirensis Clessin by the unusually deep descent 

 of the last whorl at the aperture. 



Genus GUNDLACHIA Pfeiffer. 



Gundlaohia bakeri Pilsbry, n. sp. 



Several specimens of this species were taken with Physa rivalis and 

 Planorbis anatinus in the artificial lake in Para. They were not 

 noticed at the time of collection, but were discovered in a bottle 

 of alcoholics containing the Physa rivalis and Planorbis anatinus 

 noted above. They are described by Dr. Pilsbry in a supplementary 

 paper. ^ 



SPH^IRIID^. 

 Genus EUPEKA Bourguignat. 

 Eupera. PI. XXVI, fig. 12. 



Shell rather small, delicate, very inequipartite, compressed, trans- 

 versely oblong, subrhomboidal, narrowing positively, and well 

 rounded anteriorly, the lower margin moderately curved, the pos- 

 terior broad and subtruncate, angulate above at the extremity of the 

 hinge line, subangulate below, sharply compressed posteriorly below 

 the hinge line, producing a sulcus extending from the umbo to the 

 posterior end of the valve at an angle of about thirty degrees from 

 the horizontal; everywhere sculptured with nearly even and evenly 

 spaced concentric costulse, about twelve to the millimeter on the 

 middle of the valve and considerably finer near the beaks; color a 

 slightly glistening yellow horn color, maculated irregularly and 

 rather closely with small purplish to black dots distributed in rather 

 radiating patterns and massing posteriorly to an irregular line along 

 the posterior sulcus. Beaks small, closely approaching, and pointing 

 forward, calyculate ; cartilage moderately exposed ; hinge line narrow, 

 straight posteriorly, very slightly curved anteriorly, armed with a 

 single, almo.st obsolete cardinal in each valve, two moderately 

 strong, simple laterals in the right valve and a simple anterior and a 

 strongly bifid posterior lateral in the left valve. 



Length 6, diam. 3, alt. 4 mm. 




664 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



About twenty specimens of this species were taken from the roots 



of the water hyacinth on the left bank of the main affluent of Lake 



Papar5% In view of the difficulty of the group, several closely 



similar forms being described, some of them imperfectly, it has been 



thought best to leave this species nameless. The description and 



figure should enable some future reviser to determine the Lake 



Papary form. 



UNIONID^. 



Genus CASTALIA Lamarck. 

 Castalia ambigua Lamarck. 



An. sans Vert., VI, 1819, p. 67. 



Tetraplodon ambiguus Lam., Simpson, Proc. Nat. Mus., Vol. XXII, p. 863. 



One perfect, dead specimen and with several valves, were taken just 

 below the Guajara-Assii Falls, and about twenty dead specimens 

 were taken on a sand bank below Camp 43, M. & M. R. R.; three 

 valves taken on the Ilha de Goyana, in the Rio Tapajoz, and one 

 from the Ilha Itaiuna, near Cameta, Rio Tocantins, were sent from 

 the Goeldi ]\Iuseum. 

 Castalia quadrilatera Orbigny. 



Guerin, Mag. de ZooL, No. 62, 1835, p. 42. 



Tetra'plodon quadr Hater um (Orbigny), Simpson, I.e., p. 864. 



A single mature specimen taken in the Rio Jamauchim was sent 

 from the Goeldi Museum. 



Genus HYRIA Lamarck. 

 Hyria corrugata Lamarck, var. exasperata (Sowerby). 



Hyria exasperata Sowerby, Conch, Icon., XVII, 1869, pi. 2, fig. 3. 



Simpson {I.e., p. 869) unites the variety with the type. About a 

 dozen specimens were taken at Camp 43, M. & M. R. R., all of which 

 were almost exactly alike, and all of which correspond so exactly 

 with Sowerby's figure that it seems to the writer that the variety 

 must be valid. 

 Hyria jamauchimensis n. sp. PL XXVII, figs. 8, 9. 



Shell rather light, compressed, subrhomboidal, inequipartite; 

 beaks low, eroded, but still showing signs of strong radial sculpture 

 which extends over the disk about half way to the margin, the central 

 bars anastomosing and dividing irregularly, a few of them extending 

 brokenly nearly to the edge of the shell; anterior and posterior bars 

 nearly horizontal and more defined; growth lines close, but fairly 

 distinct, decussating the radial sculpture throughout; epidermis 

 rather delicate, light yellow-olive; a small anterior wing with a 

 slightly upturned angle and more distinctly winged posteriorly, the 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 665 



posterior wing being distinctly twisted to the left side; posterior 

 ridge not prominent, indistinctly duplicated, producing an indistinct 

 biangulation; posterior groove scarcely perceptible; superior margin 

 slightly arcuate, anterior narrowed, sharply curved above and 

 gradually and regularly extending into and through the basal margin 

 in an evenly decreasing curve to the lower, posterior angle; posterior 

 margin obliquely truncate; hinge line sharply curved; right valve 

 with three pseudocardinals, two small, simple, widely diverging, 

 including between them a large, triangular middle pseudocardinal 

 which is split into six irregular denticles, and a long, narrow, low- 

 arched lateral lying well within the margin of the posterior wing; 

 left valve with three pseudocardinals, the anterior simple and promi- 

 nent, the posterior two flattened and irregularly divided into denti- 

 cles, and two long laterals which coalesce anteriorly over about one- 

 third of their length; anterior muscle scar rather evenly rounded, 

 well impressed, posterior elongate and indistinct; pallial line well 

 marked; nacre pearly-white, iridescent posteriorly; ligament mod- 

 erate, thickened posteriorly. 



Animal unknown. 



Length 45.75, width 31, diam. 11.75 mm. 



A young specimen of this species which seems to be new, taken 

 in the Rio Jamauchim, was sent from the Goeldi Museum. The 

 sculpture suggests H. rugossissima Sby., but is very much finer than 

 in that species. 



Genus PRISODON Schumacher. 

 Frisodon obliquus Schumacher. 



Ess. Nouv. Syst., 1817, p. 139, pi. xl, fig. 2. 

 Simpson, I.e., p. 871. 



One specimen taken at Boim, on the Rio Tapajoz, was sent from 

 the Goeldi Museum. 

 Prisodon syrmatophorus (Meuschen). 



Mya syrmatophora Meuschen, in Gronovius, Zooph., 1781, pi. xviii, figs. 1, 2. 



Prisondon (,yrmatophorus (Meuschen), Simpson, I.e., p. 870. 



Seventeen specimens taken in the Rio Jamauchim were sent from 

 the Goeldi Museum. 



Genua DIPLODON Spix. 

 Diplodon kelseyi n. sp. PI. XXVII, figs. 5, 6, 7. 



Shell transversely subrhomboidal, rather heavy, of moderate size, 



very inequipartite; epidermis dark brown to black, rayless and 



almost lustreless; dorsal margin markedly curved, the basal nearly' 



straight, narrowly, evenly rounded in front, obliquely truncate 



44 




666 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



behind, producing a subangulation above and below, scarcely alate; 

 beaks rather low, sculptured with strong ribs, nearly vertical in front, 

 more radiating posteriorly and changing abruptly to nearly horizontal 

 in the posterior sulcus; everywhere marked by strong concentric 

 growth lines which decussate the beak sculpture and become almost 

 lamellate in the posterior sulcus, and very faintly marked by obsolete 

 radiating lines discoverable over most of the shell; posterior ridge 

 low, posterior gToove shallow and flat ; hinge line much curved, right 

 valve with a large and a small compressed pseudocardinal, which 

 are nearly parallel, the upper (anterior) thin, straight, and regular, 

 the other much heavier, but varying in different specimens, both 

 variously corrugated and lined on their adjacent surfaces and nearly 

 smooth on their distal surfaces, and, on the same valve, a long, slender 

 lateral which is generally roughened on the inner surface and minutely, 

 irregularly serrate on the edge ; left valve with two compressed pseu- 

 docardinals, one in front of the other, the anterior one roughened 

 and much the larger, and two long, slender, and nearly parallel 

 laterals ; beak cavities moderately deep ; cicatrices deeply impressed 

 and well defined, the anterior irregularly incised on the posterior 

 edge; nacre not brilliant, bluish -white, slightly iridescent behind. 



Length 59.5, width 37.5, diam. 28 mm. 



Thirteen specimens of this species, which seems to be new, taken 

 in the Rio Jamauchim, were sent from the Goeldi Museum. The 

 species is named for Professor F. W. Kelsey, of San Diego, Cal., 

 who has kindly undertaken the photographing of the shells illus- 

 trated in this paper. 

 Diplodon obsolescens n. sp. PI. XXII, figs. 16, 17. 



Shell rather thin, elongate subrhomboidal, rather full, very inequi- 

 partite; beaks low, eroded, but apparently presenting the peculiar 

 radial sculpture characteristic of the genus; everywhere marked by 

 concentric growth lines and with about two-fifths of the disk marked 

 by extensions of the radial sculpture of the beaks; epidermis rather 

 heavy, black, rayless; anterior margin rather evenly rounded; basal 

 margin nearly straight; posterior margin truncate with evenly 

 rounded upper and lower angles; superior margin slightly curved; 

 hinge line distinctly angulate below the umbones; teeth very poorly 

 developed, the outer (anterior) pseudocardinal of the right valve 

 being restricted to a narrow, scarcely perceptible ridge, the other 

 being broader but only slightly more elevated, the long lateral a 

 little more prominent than either pseudocardinal; pseudocardinals 

 of the left valve equally obsolete, while the two laterals are fairly 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 667 



developed; location of teeth and general shape characteristic of the 

 genus; beak cavities very shallow, nacre dull bluish-white. 



Length 57, width 25.5, diam. 16.5 mm. 



One complete specimen and four broken valves of this species, 

 which seems to be new, taken in the Rio Jamauchim, were sent from 

 the Goeldi Museum. All of the specimens are more or less damaged, 

 but it seemed best to describe the species from the material at hand 

 on account of the remarkable obsolescence of the hinge teeth. 



Genus ANODONTITES Bruguiere. 



Anodontites ensiformis (Spis). 



Anodon ensiformis Spix. Test. fluv. bras., 1827, p. 31, pi. xxiv, fig. 1. 

 Glabaris ensiformis (Spix) Simpson, I.e., p. 932. 



A single valve was taken at Camp 43, M. & M. R. R. 



Anodontites trapezialis Lamarck, var. anserinus (Spix). 



Anodon anserina Spix, I.e., p. 29, pi. xvii, figs. 1, 2. 

 A single mature specimen taken in the Rio Jamauchim was sent 

 from the Goeldi Museum. 



Anodontites dalli n. sp. PI. XXVII. figs. 1, 2. 



Shell oblong elliptical, rather heavy, moderately full, very inequi- 

 partite; beaks rather low, eroded, but apparently nearly smooth; 

 epidermis moderately dense, chestnut colored, light at the beaks, 

 becoming dark at the margins, very slightly shining; rayless; every- 

 where showing rather distant, low-rounded, concentric growi;h ridges 

 with many fine, wavy, concentric, incised lines between and overlying 

 them; obsolete radiating lines perceptible without a glass over most 

 of the surface ; posterior ridge low, rounded, posterior sulcus shallow 

 and not well defined, much roughened by the growth lines; hinge 

 line nearly straight, about half the length of the shell, with a long, 

 thin ligament, edentulous; anterior margin narrowly and rather 

 evenly rounded, base a long, even curve; posterior margin very 

 obliquely truncate above, sharply rounded below; beak cavities 

 broad and shallow, cicatrices smooth, showing continuous nacreous 

 layers, anterior distinct and well impressed, posterior scarcely 

 defined; nacre silvery -white, iridescent throughout; pallial line 

 distinct. 



Animal unknown. 



Length 77, width 37, diam. 23 mm. 



A single well-preserved specimen of this species, taken on the 

 Island of Mexiana, was sent from the Goeldi Museum. The species 

 is nd^med for Dr. W. H. Dall, of the National Museum. 




668 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Anodontites bartschi n. sp. PI. XXVII, 3, 4. 



Shell small, uniformly thin, obliquely subelliptical, moderately 

 full, inequipartite; rather smooth, the growth lines being fine and 

 low, and with obsolete radiating lines produced by a peculiar wrinkle 

 striation irregularly placed, which is not constant, having largely 

 disappeared from the type; epidermis thin, light yellow-olive to 

 dark yellow-olive, rayless; posterior ridge low, with a small, sharp 

 duplication, posterior sulcus shallow; anterior margin subangulate 

 above, regularly and slantingly rounded into the base, the outline 

 of the base becoming nearly straight posteriorly; posterior margin 

 obliquely truncate, forming a straight line contained 2| times in the 

 greatest length; obtusely angulate above, terminating below in a 

 rather broad posterior point; upper margin and hinge line slightly 

 curved; edentulous with a very narrow, thin ligament; beaks rather 

 full, eroded, but apparently smooth; beak cavities moderate, cica- 

 trices indistinct, the anterior very large; pallial line indistinct; nacre 

 silvery-white, not brilliant, but slightly iridescent throughout. 



Animal unknown. 



Greatest length 35.5, width 25, diam. 14 mm. 



Three specimens of this species, all probably somewhat immature, 

 taken at Boim e Pinhel, on the left bank of the Rio Tapajoz, were sent 

 from the Goeldi Museum. The species differs from all the round 

 species of Anodontites by the truncation of the posterior extremity. 

 It is named for Dr. Paul Bartsch, of the National Museumi. 



Anodontites sp. undet. 



A single specimen of this genus, taken with the preceding, too young 

 to identify, but not corresponding to any of the foregoing species, 

 was sent from the Goeldi Museum. 



Appendix: Notes on Gundlachia Pfr., by H. A. Pilsbry. 



The peculiar Ancyloids known as Gundlachia have been the occa- 

 sion of some speculation and difference of opinion among concholo- 

 gists. That Gundlachia is dimorphic, sometimes maturing as an 

 Ajicylus without the intervention of a septate stage, was first 

 intimated by Guppy in 1870 ^ and later by several other naturalists. 

 It was observed by the present writer about 1886,- and recently by 

 Mr. J. A. Allen, who proved the identity of the septate and non- 

 septate forms by breeding them in jars. 



^ Guppy, American Journal of Conchology, VI, 1870, p. 311. 

 2 Pilsbry, Nautilus, IX, 1895, p. 63. Cf. also Bryant Walker, Nautilus, XXI, 

 1907, p. 14. * 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 669 



Nordenskiold ^ and Dall'' consider Gundlachia to be merely a dry 

 season or winter stage of Ancylus. As Dr. Dall expresses it, "an 

 Ancylus which has under favorable circumstances been able to form 

 a calcareous epiphragm and survive the winter, which ordinarily 

 kills the great mass of individuals, and while retaining the shell of 

 the first year, to secrete an enlarged and somewhat discrepant shell 

 during its second summer," this ability not being possessed by all 

 Ancyli. 



The rarity and sporadic occurrence of Gundlachia are apparently 

 favorable to this view; yet on closer inspection, less favorable than 

 at first appears. Of the Gundlachias I have myself collected, or 

 known from specimens taken in regions where the Ancylus fauna is 

 well known, not one can be regarded as a form of any known Ancylus 

 of the region. Each one of the known United States forms of 

 Gundlachia is specifically distinct from any Ancylus, wholly apart 

 from the septum-forming ability. The case would be quite different 

 if the only difference between a Gundlachia and some Ancylus of the 

 same fauna was the presence of a septum in some individuals. 



Ancylus commonly lives over winter in this latitude. I have 

 repeatedly collected specimens in the spring, in which the previous 

 season's growth was distinguishable from the new growth by greater 

 solidity and a coat of iron stain. In the Delaware River I have 

 taken specimens in winter from under stones at low water, in places 

 which had previously been covered with ice. In size they varied 

 from quite small to full grown. 



The only case known to me where a Gundlachia has been identified 

 with a known species of Ancylus is Nordenskiold's reference of a 

 form from the Chaco region to A. moricandi Orb. It is quite possible 

 that this identification might l^e altered on thorough comparison 

 of authentic specimens. 



Dr. Dall has proposed a convenient terminology for the post- 

 embryonic stages in the life of Gundlachia, as follows: 

 I. Ancyloid stage, shell simple, .4nc?/Zws-shaped. 

 II, Septate stage, a deck or septum added. 



III. Gundlachia stage,^ an Ancylus-like shell added to the margins 

 of the aperture of the septate stage, the latter lying obliquely upon it. 



The form in which there is no septate stage, and which is indis- 



3 Zoologischer Anzeiger, XXVI, 1903, p. 590. 



^ Nautilus, XVII, Jan., 1904, p. 97; American Naturalist, XLV, March, 1911, 

 p. 175. 



' The genus Gundlachia was originally described from specimens in the 

 "septate stage," but later was found in the third stage. 




670 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



tinguishable from Ancylus, may be termed the non-septate form. 

 It is not merely the ancyloid stage grown large, because the young 

 non-septate never has the shape of the ancyloid stage. When of 

 the same length as that, it is a wider shell. This is certainly the 

 case in the Illinois species which I collected about 1886, and, so far 

 as I can make out, in Mr. Allen's Ohio specimens also. It appears, 

 therefore, that in all post-embrj'onic stages the septate form differs 

 from the non-septate. 



It seems certain that the tj^pical forms of Ancylus and the great 

 majorit}' of known species never develop a septate form, which, 

 from Mr. Allen's observations, seems dependent upon physical 

 conditions. Whether Gundlachia is to be retained as a genus depends 

 upon whether we consider the ability to produce the septate form 

 to be a character of taxonomic value. To me it appears to be so, 

 even though the character is not expressed in all individuals or 

 under all conditions. 

 Gundlachia bakeri n. sp. PI. XXVI, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



In the second or septate stage the shell is oblong, the width con- 

 tained twice in the length; sides slightly convex. The obtuse, 

 rounded summit is very close to the posterior end and overhangs 

 the right margin. Back and left slope are strongly convex; posterior 

 and right slopes short and steep. There are a few low, wave-like 

 concentric wrinkles near the embryonic shell and some faint radial 

 lines on the anterior part. The sides curve into the deck, except 

 posteriorly where there is an angle or keel at junction of upper 

 surface and deck. The deck or septum is convex and covers about 

 two-thirds of the lower face. The aperture is oval, its margins 

 elevated, blackish, and a little reflexed. 

 Length 2.8, width 1.4, alt. 1 mm. 



Several dozen specimens were taken during the dry season in an 

 artificial lake or pond in one of the small parks of the city of Para 

 situated between the public market and the Cathedral. Over a 

 hundred specimens of Physa rivalis M. & R., Planorbis anatinus Orb., 

 and what the collector supposed to be Ancylus were taken from the 

 dead leaves and debris in the pond and preserved together in alcohol. 

 Part of the collecting was done by stripping the leaves. On examina- 

 tion of the bottle after arrival in Philadelphia a number of specimens 

 of the septate form of Gundlachia were discovered and the supposed 

 Ancylus is probably the non-septate form, presumably of the same 

 species. 



The pond is two hundred or more feet long, rather narrow and 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 671 



winding, and averages three or four feet deep. It empties by an 

 overflow and is supplied by a small fountain which was always 

 playing on the numerous occasions when the park was visited. 

 The large amount of dead leaves and debris on the bottom of the 

 pond makes it probable that it has not been drained for a long time, 

 if ever, since its construction. 



This species, named for Dr. Fred Baker, who collected the series, 

 differs from the form figured by Nordenskiold by its smaller size 

 and the far more eccentric apex. The position of the apex will also 

 serve to separate G. bakeri from G. textilina Guppy of Trinidad 

 and all other known species of the genus. A large series taken is 

 very constant in size and form. Specimens in the first or Ancyloid 

 stage and others with the septum in various degrees of development 

 occurred in the same gathering. There were none, however, in the 

 third or complete Gundlachia stage. 



With the Gundlachia just described there were many specimens of 

 an Ancyloid which may be the dimorphic form alluded to above, in 

 which the septate stage is omitted, or possibly it inaj^ be a distinct 

 species of true Ancylus.'^ These shells (PI. XXVI, figs. 4 to 8) are thin, 

 fragile, corneous, and diaphanous, oval, the apex slightly behind the 

 posterior fourth of the length and almost overhanging the right 

 margin; anterior and left slopes convex, posterior and right slopes 

 more or less concave; apex rounded, with a slight apical depression, 

 the embryonic shell minutely pitted; surface elsewhere marked 

 with faint growth lines and minute, unequal radial striae, wanting 

 on the short slope below the apex. 



Length 4.1, width 3, height 1 mm. 



With some resemblance to A. excentricus Morelet, this form differs 

 by its broader contour and more eccentric apex. 



The young shell, 2.4 mm. long (PL XXVI, fig 4), is much wider than 

 the ancyloid stage of G. bakeri of similar length, the breadth con- 

 tained only about 1.4 times in the length, while an Ancyloid of the 

 same length is twice as long as broad. 



Whether this form will turn out to be the non-septate form of 

 G. bakeri or a distinct species of Ancylus is an open question, but 

 I incline to the former view. 



6 The South American Ancyli do not belong to any of the subgenera estab- 

 lished for northern species. In most of them the embryonic shell is punctate, 

 pitted, or pock-marked and of an obtuse, rounded shape, with the usual apical 

 depression. This group may be called Hebetancyliis, type A. moricandi Orb. 

 Others have an acute, hooked apex, also shghtly punctate near the margin of 

 the embryonic shell, subgenus Uncancylus, type A. barilensis Moricand. Both 

 groups are sinistral. 




672 proceedings of the academy of [dec, 



Reference to Plates XXI-XXVII. 

 Plate XXI. — Figs. 1, 2.^Helicina schereri n. sp. 

 Fig. 3. — Helicina guajarana n. sp. 

 Figs. 4, 5. — Helicina laterculus n sp. 

 Figs. 6, 7. — Guppya mayi, n. sp. 

 Figs. 8, 9. — Strobilops braziliana n. sp. 

 Fig. 10. — Leptinaria imperforata n. sp. 

 Fig. 11. — Leptinaria perforata n. sp. 

 Figs. 12-14. — Zonitoides par ana n. sp. 



Plate XXII. — Figs. 1, 2. — Solaropsis rugifera Dohrn. 



Figs. 3, 4.—Happia snethlagei n. sp. 



Figs. 5-7. — -Streptaxis cookeana n. sp. 



Figs. 8~10. ^AStreptaxis abunaensis n. sp. 



Figs. 11-13. — -Eiitodina jeckylii n. sp. 



Figs. 14, 15. — Systrophia eatoni n. sp. 



Figs. 16, 17. — Diplfldon obsolescens n. sp. 



Fig. 18. — Orlhalicus sultana meobambensis Pfr. 



Fig. 19. — Psadara derbyi cearana n. subsp. 

 Plate XXIII. — Figs. 1-4. — Drymceus branneri n. sp. 



Figs. 5-8. — Drymoeus linostoma suprapunctatus n. subsp. 



Figs. 9, 10. — Tomigerus ]iilsbryi n. sp. 



Figs. 11, 12. — Odontostomus inflatus costulatus Anc. 



Figs. 13, 14. — Buliinulus rochai suturalis n. subsp. 



Figs. 15, 16. — Odontostomus scabrellus cylindricus n. subsp. 



Fig. 17. — Buliinuliis rnrhai taipuensis n. subsp. 



Fig. 18. — OdoNtos/oiinis infhitus maranguapensis n. subsp. 



Figs. 19, 20. — Bulimulus rochai n. sp. 



-Figs. 21, 22. — -Corona regalis Hupe. 

 Plate XXIV. — Figs. 1-7. — Doryssa transversa jaryensis n. subsp. 



Figs. 8, 9. — Doryssa transversa tapajosensis n. subsp. 



Fig. 10. — Doryssa rex n. sp. 



Figs. 11, 12. — Doryssa transversa tapajosensis n. subsp. 



Figs. 13, 14. — Doryssa transversa, var. near macapa. 



Fig. 15. — Doryssa rex n. sp. 



Figs. 16, 17. — Doryssa rex regina n. subsp. 

 Plate XXV. — Figs. 1, 2. — Doryssa globosa n. sp. 



Figs. 3, 4. — Doryssa heathi n. sp. 



Figs. 5, 6. — Doryssa starksi n. sp. 



Fig. 7. — Doryssa heathi n. sp., young shell. 



Fig. 8. — Doryssa iheringi n. sp. 



Fig. 9. — Doryssa cachoeircE n. sp. 



Fig. 10. — Doryssa cachoerioe. sulcata n. subsp. 



Figs. 11, 12. — Doryssa tucunareensis n. sp. 



Figs. 13, 14. — Doryssa starksi n. sp. 



Fig. 15. — Hemisinus flammeus n. sp. 



Fig. 16. — Hemisinus flammeus elongatus n. subsp. 

 Plate XXVI. — Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Gundlachia baker i Pils., n. sp. Dorsal, lateral, 

 and ventral views of the type. 



Fig. 4. — Gundlachia bakcri. Very young individual of non-septate form. 



Figs. 5-8. — Gundlachia bakeri. Non-septate form, dorsal, lateral, ventral, 

 and posterior views of the adult stage. 



Figs. Q-ll. —Segmentina paparyensis n. sp. 



Fig. 12. — Eupera sp. undet. 



Figs. 13, 14. — Idiopyrgus pilsbryi n. sp. 



Fig. 15. — Littoridina manni n. sp. 

 Plate XXVII.— Figs. 1, 2.—Anodontites dalli n. sp. 



Figs. 3, 4. — Anodontites bartschi n. sp. 



Fig. 5. — Diplodon kelseyi n. sp., young. 



Figs. 6, 7. — Diplodon kelseyi n. sp. 



Figs. 8, 9. — Hijrin jamauchimensis n. sp. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 673 



CTJRIMATUS SPILUEUS COPE, A WRONGLY IDENTIFIED CHARACIN. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



In 1878 Prof. Cope lists the specimens described below as Curimaiusr 

 spilurus Giinther without comment. In 1906 I followed this identi- 

 fication, though recently have been able to examine Gunther's 

 species, and find it distinct. Cope's species therefore requires a 

 new name, and is evidently the type of a new subgenus as well. 



XYROCHARAX subgen. nov. 

 Type Curimatus stigmaturus sp. nom. nov. 

 Back elevated or hunched conspicuously in front. Scales large, 

 smooth, in even lengthwise series. Caudal lobes naked. 

 Small fishes of the Amazons. 



{Eupov, razor; Mpa^, Charax; with reference to the trenchant 

 elevated predorsal region.) 

 Curimatus stigmaturus sp. nom. nov. 



Curimatus spilurus (not of Giinther) Cope, Proc. Aincr. Philos. Soc. Phila.,. 



XVII, 1878, p. 684. Peruvian Amazon. 



Curimata spilura Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1906, p. 297, tig. 4 



(Cope's material). 



Head 2^; depth 2|; D. iii, 9; A. iii, 8; P. i, 10; V. i, 8; scales 



30 in 1. 1. to caudal base, and 3? more on latter; 6 scales above 1. 1. 



to dorsal origin; 5 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 4 scales below 



1. 1. to anal origin; predorsal scales 9? (damaged); snout 3| in head; 



eye2|; maxillary 4|; interorbital 2f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 



21 



Body elongate, well compressed, deepest or hunched at dorsal 

 origin, so that predorsal forms well-curved convex profile sloping 

 very steeply to occiput, the incline not broken. Predorsal also 

 trenchant or with slight median keel. Postdorsal constricted, though 

 convex. Preventral and postanal convex, first broadly so. Post- 

 ventral apparently trenchant. Caudal peduncle compressed, deep, 

 and least depth nearly equals its length. 



Head large, depressed above or in front, which level and obliquely 

 and steeply inclined to predorsal in nearly straight line, as seen in 

 profile. Head with sides flattened and well constricted below to 

 form rather narrow edge wich nearly horizontal profile. Snout 




674 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



broad, depressed or flattened, and trifle wider than long. Eye 

 large, little elevated, a little anterior. Adipose eyelid not developed. 

 Mouth broad, terminal, with short commissure about half way in 

 snout length. Maxillary small, thin, about f in snout. Lips thin, 

 and rather firm cutaneous edges without cilia. Tongue not distinct. 

 Jaws about even, rami wide and little elevated in mouth. Nostrils 

 together, about last third in snout length, anterior simple pore and 

 posterior in crescent. Interorbital broad, flat. Preorbital rather 

 narrow, equals long infraorbital, both smooth. Preopercle con- 

 current with infraorbital and cheek thus covered entirely by last. 

 Opercle large, smooth. Occipital fontanel broad, uninterrupted 

 from internasal space to occiput. Occipital process short and 

 equilaterally triangular. 



Gill-opening extends forward about midway in eye. No gill- 

 rakers. Filaments about half of eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted, 

 convex. 



Scales large, cycloid, exposed edges entire, attached edges usually 

 with 3 lobules. Scales of mostly uniform size, though a little smaller 

 on caudal base. Scales on isthmus slightly smaller than those on 

 breast, and latter equal those on sides of body, also of uniform size 

 over their area. Ventral with small axillary pointed scaly flap. 

 L. 1. complete, straight, inclined parallel with axis of body from 

 shoulder to caudal base medianly. Tubes simple, and about equally 

 developed anteriorly as elsewhere. Hind edge of each scale in 1. 1. 

 with slight notch. ^ 



Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and origin of adipose fin, 

 and apparently front rays little longer than others (fin damaged). 

 Adipose fin slender, about long as eye. Anal inserted well before 

 front of adipose fin, or about midway between ventral origin and 

 caudal base, front rays longest (fin damaged). Pectoral short 

 (damaged). Ventral inserted about opposite middle of dorsal base, 

 iin pointed and nearly reaches anal. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol brownish, paler on sides of head and body, and 

 lower regions, where also with slightly silvery tinge. Iris whitish. 

 Including 1. 1. for width of its scales its entire extent paler band. 

 Caudal blackish basally, or spot thus formed about equal to eye, 

 and but slightly reflected on median rays for a short space. Fins 

 pale brownish. 



Length 38 mm. (caudal damaged). 



Not shown on my figure in Proc, 1906. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 675 



Type, No. 21,424, A. N. S. P. Nauta, on the Maranon River, 

 Peru. 1873, Prof. James Orton. From Prof. E. D. Cope. 



Also Nos. 21,425 to 21,427, A. N. S. P., paratypes, same data. 

 These show: Head 2f to 2|; depth 2| to 2f ; D. iii, 9; A. iii, 7 or 

 iii, 8; scales 29 or 30 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 

 5 or 6 scales above 1. 1.; 5 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 10 

 predorsal scales (mostly damaged); snout 3| to 3f in head; eye 

 2f to 2|; maxillary 4f to 4f; interorbital 2| to 2f ; length 33 to 

 38 mm. (caudals damaged). 



This species is related to Ciirimatus dorsalis Eigenmann and 

 Eigenmann.2 In C. dorsalis the preventral region is described 

 with a median series of large scales, though in the present species 

 they are uniform in size. C. dorsalis has persistent scales, with the 

 broadly rounded posterior margin crenate, and in C. stigmaturus 

 the scales have the rounded posterior margin entire. C. dorsalis 

 has the pores of the anterior scales of the lateral line imperfectly 

 developed or wanting, while in C. stigmaturus they are about equally 

 developed. C. dorsalis has origin of dorsal midway between tip of 

 snout and tip of adipose fin, while it is more anterior in C. stigmaturus. 

 The other characters given for C. dorsalis are largely in agreement, 

 though do not appear to me to be construed as due to age. 



(Iriyfia, blotch; oopa, tail; on account of the dark caudal spot.) 



s Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., IV, 1889, pp. 4-20. » 




676 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



NOTES ON SOME COSTA RICAN ARACHNIDA 

 BY NATHAN BANKS. 



In the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia for 1909, pp. 194-234, I published a list of Arachnida 

 from Costa Rica kindly sent me for determination by Prof. Tristan 

 and Dr. Biolley. Since then Prof. Tristan has sent a further con- 

 signment of these animals, and Prof. Calvert has sent me the Arach- 

 nids collected during his trip in that country (May, 1909, to May, 1910) . 

 The following notes are based on these collections. The types from 

 the material sent by Prof. Calvert are in the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, the others are in the author's collection. 



DRASSID^. 



ZIMIROMUS n. gen. 



A Drassid; eyes as figured; both rows strongly procurved; A.. 

 M. E. larger than the other eyes; lip nearly square, maxillae long 

 and impressed, a black ridge on the outer tip, inner tip with brush 

 of black hairs; a short dorsal groove; spinnerets similar to Zimiris; 

 legs slender, with spines, trochanter about one-half the length of the 

 coxa; claws distinctly toothed. 



Differs from the other Prodidomoid Drassids in the strongly 

 procurved eye-rows and large A. M. E. 

 Zimiromus fragilis n. sp. PL XXVIII, fig. 9. 



Cephalothorax, mandibles, and sternum pale yellowish; legs 

 very pale, femora darker; abdomen gray, nearly ])lack above, un- 

 marked, w^ith stiff black hairs at base. Legs slender, with only a 

 few spines on anterior pairs, more numerous on the hind legs, the 

 latter much longer than the abdomen. Vulva large; a long cavity 

 containing a pale transversely ridged tongue. 



Length 5 mm. 



From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan). 

 Teminius conjuncta n. sp. Pl. XXVIII, fig. 2. 



Cephalothorax, mandibles, and sternum dark reddish-brown; 

 legs more yellowish, blacker on femora above and more red-brown 

 on the tarsi and metatarsi I and II; abdomen dark gray, with black 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 677 



hair. Cephalothorax moderately long, much narrowed in front, 

 legs rather stout, tarsi and metatarsi I and II heavily scopulate 

 beneath, tibia I with one apical spine beneath, tibia II with an 

 apical spine and one near the middle; no spines above on tibise 

 III or IV, but several below and on sides. Posterior eye-row barely 

 procurved, M. E. scarcely oval, slightly more than their diameter 

 apart, and about twice as far from the equal laterals. Anterior 

 eye-row procurved, all large, M. E. less than their diameter apart, 

 .and about half as far from the slightly smaller laterals. 



Length 12 mm. 



From St. Maria Dota, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



CLUBIONIDiE. 



Clubiona tigrina Cambridge. 



Near Hacienda Guachipelin, Guanacaste; 1,700 feet. Jan. 15, 

 1910 (Calvert). 

 Chemmis punctigera Cambr. PI. XXVIII, fig. 8. 



This form may be distinct from C. frederid Simon; the figure I 

 give of the vulva agrees better with that given by the elder Cam- 

 I)ridge for this species and is quite unlike that given by the younger 

 Cambridge for C. frederici; the markings are broken up into small 

 spots. 



Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan). Juan Vifias, clearing near 

 Rio Reventazon, May 3, 1910 (Calvert). 

 Pelayo insignis Bka. PI. XXVIII, fig. 14. 



A female of this species from St. Maria Dota, Costa Rica, vulva 

 .as shown in figure ; the basal median mark of the abdomen is broken 

 up into three spots and the apical mark contains a transverse pale 

 spot. 

 Anypliaena pretiosa n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 4. 



Pale yellowish, a dark stripe each side on the cephalothorax; 

 many small dark spots on abdomen, in the middle behind they 

 unite to form a series of chevrons, a dark spot at base of the tibiae; 

 tibiae I and II with four pairs of spines l^eneath. Mandibles vertical, 

 each with two dark lines in front. A. ]M. E. much smaller than the 

 other eyes. Vulva as figured. 



Length 5 mm. 



From St. Maria Dota, Costa Rica (Tristan). 

 Anyphaena furcatella n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 5. 



Pale yellowish; a faint dark stripe each side on the cephalothorax; 

 legs very long and slender and with very long spines; coxae all 




678 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



unarmed. A. M. E. very much smaller than the other eyes; man- 

 dibles slender, vertical; the tibia of the male palpus is broad and at 

 tip with two acute projections, one of which has a short upper spur. 



A female, which may belong to the same species, is unmarked, 

 and has a vulva as figured. 



Length 5 mm. 



From St. Maria Dota, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Sillns putUS Cambridge. 



Cache, March 7, 1910 (Calvert). 



AGBLENIDJE. 

 Agelsena sp. 



Juan Viiias, 3,200 feet, in a bromeliad, April 26, 1910, a young^ 

 specimen (Calvert). 



THERIDIID^. 

 Theridion bioUeyi Banks. PI. XXVIII, fig. 7. 



The palpus of the male (previously unknown) is shown in figure; 

 the markings are similar to those of the female. 

 Lithyphantes lugubris Cambr. 



From Cache, March 9, 1910 (Calvert). 



BPEIRID^. 

 Edricus tricuspis Getaz. 



Unknown to the Biologia; one female from Juan Vinas, "farther 

 waterfall," 29 Sept., 1909 (Calvert). A figure of the dorsum is 

 given; the abdomen is shorter than in E. crassicauda. The length, 

 5 mm., given in the Biologia is wrong, as Getaz says the abdomen 

 is 9 mm. long. 

 Tetragnatha alba Cambridge. 



Santa Cruz, Jan. 20, 1910, and Quebrada de Panteon de Liberia, 

 Jan. 12, 1910, both in Guanacaste (Calvert). 



Tetragnatha antillana Simon. 



Cache, stream through coffee plantation, March 3, 1910 (Calvert) - 

 Tetragnatha guatemalensis Cambridge. 



Banana River region, Nov. 4-10, 1910 (Calvert). 

 Tetragnatha mexicana Keyserling. 



Juan Vinas, laguna, 3,300 feet, Feb. 18, 1910 (Calvert). 

 Tetragnatha tenuissima Cambridge. 



Juan Vinas, Feb. 15, 1910 (Calvert). 

 Leucauge hortornm Hentz. 



Juan Vinas, laguna, Oct. 5, 1909 (Calvert). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 679 



Singa dotana n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 1. 



Cephalothorax wholly pale yellowish, also the mandibles, palpi^ 

 and sternum; legs with deep black bands on apices of all femora, 

 on tips, and partly on sides of patellae, and a fine dot near middle and 

 tip of tibiae. Abdomen gray, with some irregular blackish patches 

 on the basal part, and many silvery -white spots above and below; 

 each side of the spinnerets is a jet-black spot. 



Abdomen much broader than long and concave behind. 



Length 3 mm., width of the abdomen 3 mm. 



From St. Maria Dota, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Related to S. abbreviata, but distinct by markings and shape of 

 the vulva. 



Argiope argentata Fabricius. 



Alajuela, Sept. 9, 1909 (Calvert). 



Mangora trilineata Cambridge. 



Juan Vinas, 2,500 feet. May 3, 1910; 3,300 feet, Oct. 5. 1909 

 (Calvert). 

 Mangora picta Cambridge. 



Juan Vinas, Reventazon Valley, 2,500 feet, in unrolled Heliconia 

 leaves. May 1, 1910 (Calvert). 



Acrosoma inaequalis Cambridge. 



Near Cartago, Feb. 1910; Juan Vinas, 3,300 feet, July 27 and 

 Sept. 29, 1909 (Calvert). 

 Acrosoma 12-spinosa Keyseriing. 



Alajuela, Sept. 6, 1909 (Calvert). 

 Gasteraoantha koohi Butler. 



Juan Vinas, ''farther waterfall," Sept. 29, 1909 (Calvert). 



SPARASSID^. 

 Selenops mexioana Keyseriing. 



Pefia Blanca, Rio Naranjo Valley, near Cache, in arboricolous 

 bromeUad, March 9, 1910 (Calvert). 



OTENID^. 

 Cupiennius coccineus Cambr. 



Described from Panama; one from Peha Blanca near Cache, 

 in arboricolous bromeliad, 19 March, 1910 (Calvert). 

 Cupiennius griseus Cambridge. 



Juan Vinas, April 29, 1910, one specimen in house (Calvert). 

 Treohalea oonvexa Cambridge. 



Quebrada de Salas, east of Atenas Station, Pacific Railroad^ 




680 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



April 8, 1910; Quebrada Clara, north of Liberia', Guanacaste, Jan. 

 13, 1910, immersed itself clinging to rock face (Calvert). 

 Ctenus sp. 



Juan Yifias, 3,200 feet, in arboricolous bromeliad, April 26, 1910, 

 one immature specimen (Calvert). 



Tinus nigrinus Cambridge. 



Rio Liberia and Quebrada de Panteon, Liberia, Guanacaste, 

 Jan. 11 and 12, 1910; along the banks; wings, etc., of Odonata 

 {Hetcerina, Argia and Perithemis) , in its webs, one female with its 

 €gg-ball (Calvert). 



LYOOSIDiE. 

 Xycosa brevitarsis Cambridge. 



Near Hacienda Guachipelin, Guanacaste, 1,700 feet, Jan. 15, 1910 

 (Calvert). 

 Pardosa sp. 



Crater of Volcano Irazu, 10,880 feet, April 1, 1910, one young 

 ,specimen (Calvert). 



OXYOPIDiE. 

 Oxyopeidon molestum Cambr. 



Juan Villas, near Rio Reventazon, May 3, 1910 (Calvert). 



ATTID^. 



Dendryphantes maxillosus Cambr. 



From Juan Vinas, July, 1909 (Calvert). 

 Cobanus mandibnlaris Peck. 



From Banana River region, 4 Nov., 1909 (Calvert). 

 Sidusa fulvoguttata Cambridge.' 



Juan Vinas, 3,200 feet, in arboricolons bromeliad, April 26, 1910 

 (Calvert). 

 Thiodina retarius Hentz. 



Juan Vinas, 2, .500 feet, near Rio Reventazon, March 21, 1910 



(Calvert). 



PHALANQID^. 

 Hernandria ventralis n. sp. 



Black; ventral segments with silvery basal band, also silvery on 

 sides of the posterior segments. Eye-tubercle smooth, with two 

 small granules each side above; dorsal scutum divided into three 

 transverse parts; each with a pair of pale spots, the first part also 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 681 



divided on the middle line ; the surface of scutum smooth ; posterior 

 segments each with a transverse row of granules, a median one on 

 the third segment much larger than the others; legs, especially the 

 hind pair, with rows of granules, bearing fine hairs; a large spur 

 above on tip of coxa IV; tarsal joints 5, 6, 8, 6. Palpi with long 

 bristles; tibia and tarsus each with four on outer side, the first and 

 third long, the others very short. 



Length 6 mm. 



From St. Maria Dota, Costa Rica (Tristan). The silvery bands 

 on the venter are very characteristic. 

 Cynorta bip^uttata Cambridge. i 



La Emilia, near Rio Santa Clara, 980 feet, Nov. 17-19, and Juan 

 Villas, 3,300 feet, Oct. 1, 1909, in bromeliads (Calvert). 

 Cynorta flavornata n. sp. 



Dark brown; sides reticulate with yellowish, and emitting branches 

 to middle of the body; two dots on the eye-tubercle; two large 

 • yellow spots above on the anal segment almost touching each other ; 

 a large yellow spot on each hind coxa; legs pale, densely marked 

 with fine black lines. Dorsum with a pair of low, basal, acute 

 tubercles and a pair of long spines behind, not one-half their length 

 apart, and with very slender tips; surface of dorsum and posterior 

 segments without granules. Femur IV twice as long as the width 

 of body and plainly longer than length of body; tarsal joints six, 

 fourteen, nine, and ten; first three of tarsus I enlarged. 



Length 6 mm., hind femur 10 mm. 



From San Jose, Costa Rica (Tristan). 

 Cynorta longispina Cambridge. 



La Emilia, in epiphytic bromeliad, Nov. 16, 1909 (Calvert). 

 Cynorta oculata n. sp. 



Red-brown, legs pale, finely maculate with black, dorsum with 

 four white rings surrounding the four tubercles, venter with two of 

 the basal segments pale on the middle of hind margin, last segment 

 with white mark each side, white spot surrounding the spiracles, 

 and a white stripe above coxae IV. Dorsum smooth, with four 

 humps, the basal pair low and blunt, the apical pair high, but more 



1 [Mr. Banks has recently re-examined a couple of specimens from the same 

 bromeliad, quoted on page 405 of volume XXII of Entomological News as Cynorta 

 sp., and writes: "The Phalangids are young Cynorta; have long palpi; when 

 mature, palpi are very much shorter. I cannot be sure of species; looks like 

 C. albomaculata Cambr., which is common in Costa Rica." The locality whence 

 these specimens came was Juan Vinas, Oct. 3 and 4, 1909.^ — P. P, Calvert.) 

 45 




682 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



than twice their height apart, and each with a rounded tip; tarsal 

 joints 6, 14, 9, 10; hind coxae with a few granules on outer side. 



Length 5.5 mm., femur II, 10 mm.; femur IV, 9 mm. 



From Ste. Maria Dota, Costa Rica (Tristan). 

 Cynorta oonspersa n. sp. 



Related to C. flavornata, with large yellow spot on outer side of 

 each hind coxa and small dots on the eye-eminence, and a pair of 

 large spots behind on last segment; these last marks, however, are 

 plainly made up of three spots joined together. The dorsum has a 

 great number of small, rounded yellow dots, often marking an eleva- 

 tion, these are most numerous on the sides, two in front of eye-emi- 

 nence on the front margin. The posterior spines are more slender 

 than in C. flavornata and more than their length apart, there are no 

 anterior humps. The tarsal joints are 6, 13, 9, 11 ; femora II and IV 

 are much longer than the body, second joint of mandible scabrous 

 above, the palpal joints not as broad as in that species. 

 . Length 5 mm.; femur I, 8 mm.; femur IV, 7 mm. 



From Juan Vinas, 2,500-3,000 feet, in arboricolous bromeliads, 

 March 20 and 21, 1910 (Calvert). 



STYGNOLEPTES n. gen. 



A Gonyleptid ; the hind coxae larger than others and much broader 

 than first segment of abdomen; all coxae distinct; hind coxae sepa- 

 rated by a triangular plate; spiracles distinct. Palpi not one-half 

 the length of the body, rather slender, with bristles; all legs short, 

 and tarsi with few joints; eye-tubercle broad and low, with a little 

 granule above on each side near eyes. Cephalothorax small com- 

 pared to the abdomen, the basal dorsal scutum of abdomen undivided 

 by grooves or furrows. 

 Stygnoleptes analis n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 6. 



Body reddish, palpi yellowish, legs mostly brown, the bases and 

 the articulations pale. Dorsal surface finely granulate. The 

 cephalothorax not more than one-third as wide nor more than 

 one-fourth as long as the abdomen; the dorsal. scutum of abdomen 

 with serrate sides, beyond are four posterior segments, in one speci- 

 men the third and fourth bear a pair of submedian tubercles, about 

 twice their length apart; on the anal plate is a long spine projecting 

 behind the body. The palpi have two bristles on outer edge of both 

 tibia and tarsus, and near base of the femur are two situate on 

 tubercles. The coxae are coarsely granulate, the legs short, none 

 of the femora more than one-half the width of the body; the hind 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 683 



legs are rather longer than the second pair, femora I and II have 

 beneath one or two small spines near tip; leg IV is heavier than the 

 others, and more coarsely granulate; the trochanter has a stout 

 spur, a row of spurs beneath on the femur, one above near tip of the 

 patella, the tibia with one above near base, and a very large one 

 below at middle, and beyond are two smaller ones; all the legs are 

 slightly roughened and provided with very fine, short hairs; tarsus 

 I has three joints, II with six joints, III with four joints, the basal 

 one as long as others together; IV with five joints, the basal one the 

 longest. 



Length 3.5 mm. 



From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Meterginus signatus Banks. 



Juan Vinas, in epiphytic bromeliad ("fourth bromeliad") ou Rio 

 Reventazon Road, Oct. 3 and 4, 1909 (Calvert; quoted in Ent. News, 

 vol. XXII, p. 405, 1911). 



Liobunum biolleyi Banks. 



Cerro Las Pilas, west of Santa Cruz, Guanacaste, a swarm in a dry 

 brook bed, Jan. 21, 1910 (Calvert). 



Liobunum foveolatum Cambridge. 



Rio Oro Valley near Cache, March 8, 1910, a swarm (Calvert). 



PSBUDOSOORPIONIDA. 



Chelanops nodulimanus Tomosv. 



On the Harlequin beetle, Acrocinus longimanus, from Juan Vifias 

 (Calvert). 

 Chelanops uniformis n. sp. PI. XXIX, fig. 16. 



Hard parts reddish -brown, legs paler. Body rather long, the 

 cephalothorax plainly longer than broad behind, narrowed and 

 rounded in front, minutely granulate, with two transverse furrows, 

 the first at about middle, surface with many short clavate hairs; 

 no eye-spots. The abdominal scutse finely granulate, each with 

 about seven clavate hairs behind. Pedipalpi slender, longer than 

 the body; trochanter, femur, and tibia finely granulate, and with 

 clavate or subclavate hairs, hand smooth and with simple hairs; 

 femur fully as long as the cephalothorax, nearly straight in front, 

 slightly convex behind; tibia rather shorter than femur, strongly 

 convex on inner basal part, outer side more convex near tip; hand 

 but little broader than tibia, twice as long as broad, neither side 

 much convex, fingers nearly as long as the hand, but little curved; 




684 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



legs with some clavate hairs near tip of femora, and on the tibia 

 above. 



Length 3 mm.; pedipalpi 3.3 mm. 



From bromeliads at La Emilia, Juan Vinas, and Reventazon 

 Valley, below Juan Viiias, Costa Rica, Oct. and Nov., 1909; March 

 and April, 1910 (Calvert). The pedipalpi are very similar to those 

 of CheUfer canestrinii Balzan. 



SOORPIONIDA. 



Centrurus bicolor Pocock. 



One specimen taken in the office of Philadelphia South Farm 

 (Banana River district), Costa Rica, Nov. 7, 1909 (Calvert). 



Centrurus margaritatus Gerv. 



From Turrucares, August 14 and 15, 1909 (Calvert). 



SOLPUGIDA. 



Ammotrecha stoUi Pocock. 



Atenas Station, Pacific Railroad, one specimen running about in 

 bed at hotel, April 8, 1910, 9 P.M. 



AOARINA. 



Canestrinia blattophaga Banks. 



From Santa Cruz, 21 Jan., 1910 (Calvert), in a vial with various 

 insects, including a large cockroach, Archimandrita marmorata Stoll, 

 identified by Mr. J. A. G. Rehn. 

 Trombidium furcipes n. sp. PI. xxx, fig. 21. 



Red. Body nearly twice as long as broad, broadest at humeri, 

 constricted behind the humeri and again at insertion of third legs; 

 crista metopica (or groove) reaching to abdomen, with a papilla 

 near posterior third; two sessile eyes each side, the inner one much 

 the smaller. Body densely clothed with minute, short, dense fascicles 

 of hair, each arising from -a pit; so close are these as to give the abdo- 

 men a pitted appearance from' above; legs with short, fine hairs, 

 leg I longer than body, leg IV plainly shorter, and all tarsi at end 

 have a long deep slit in which are located the claws, each side of 

 slit the hairs are long and dense, so that seen from the side the tarsi 

 appear abruptly clavate at tip, and from above appear forked; tarsi 

 longer than preceding joint; palpi quite long, with only short hairs, 

 the thumb fusiform and hardly longer than the long claw. 



Length 2 mm. 



From Juan Vinas, Costa Rica, June 23 to 29, 1910 (Calvert). 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 685 



Ehyncholophus stolli n. sp. PI. XXX, fig. 22. 



Red. Body about one and two-thirds as long as broad, broadest 

 at humeri, slightly narrowed at insertion of third legs, broadly 

 rounded behind, clothed with very short dense simple hairs, dorsal 

 groove long, reaching much behind eyes, and with a papilla at about 

 one-third way from end; one eye each side. Legs slender, first 

 pair about as long as body, second pair very short, last joint of leg I 

 about one-half the length of the preceding, last joint of leg IV about 

 one-third of preceding joint; palpi with large clavate thumb; genital 

 aperture about one-half its length in front of the small anal aperture, 

 the latter with a dark strip reaching out each side. 



Length 3.5 mm. 



From San Jose, Costa Rica (Tristan). 

 TJropoda olavisetosa n. sp. PI. XXIX, fig. 19. 



Yellowish. Body about one and a half times as long as broad, 

 broadest behind middle, but not narrowed much in front; dorsum 

 with many long, stout bristles, those around the margin (about 

 15 each side) are simple, some toward tip are very long, four in front 

 are close together in pairs, on middle of dorsum the bristles are 

 plainly clavate, especially in front, those behind hardly so; legs 

 rather stout, all with few simple bristles, hind coxte more approximate 

 than others, hardly more than diameter apart; venter with an 

 oblique ridge behind hind femur; anus about its length in front of 

 margin, a pair of bristles behind it. 



Length .65 mm. 



From Juan Vinas, Costa Rica (Calvert), on the Harlequin beetle, 

 Acrocinus longimanus. 

 Uropoda bisetosa n. sp. PI. XXIX fig. 15. 



Brownish-yellow. Body about once and two-thirds as long as 

 broad, broadest rather behind the middle, broadly rounded behind, 

 in front tapering, and near tip with concave margins so that there 

 is a prominent process in front which bears two small bristles; dor- 

 sum smooth, without hairs; coxae I rather longer than usual, all 

 legs very short, and all but leg I stout, with few hairs, a few spine- 

 like bristles on tarsi; epigynum of female more than twice as long as 

 broad, narrowed behind; anus hardly its length in front of hind 

 .margin; behind leg II the peritreme bends suddenly outward and 

 then at once back and bends to leg III. 



Length .5 mm. 



From Juan Vinas, Costa Rica (Calvert), on the Harlequin beetle, 

 Acrocimis longimanus. 




686 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Celaenopsis angustus n. sp. PI. XXX, fig. 20. 



Reddish-brown. Body fully twice as long as broad, middle sides 

 nearly parallel, tapering and almost pointed behind, in front rather 

 concavely narrowed to the rounded front; dorsum smooth, with a 

 few short scattered bristles, these bristles not one-half as long as 

 distance between them, a row of curved bristles over front margin; 

 sternum about as long as broad behind, a bristle in each anterior 

 corner, one each side, and a submedian pair behind; vulva as figured; 

 hind coxae not their diameter apart; anus nearly three times its 

 length in front of hind margin, a pair of bristles behind it toward 

 tip; first legs slender, with many fine hairs especially at tip, other 

 legs thicker, and with few bristles, hind legs reaching barely beyond 

 abdomen. 



Length .6 mm. 



On the Scarabseid, Dynastes hercules, from Costa Rica (Calvert). 



Hypoaspis distans n. sp. PI. XIX, fig. 17. 



Yellowish. Body about twice as long as broad, broadest at middle, 

 tapering each way, but most behind; dorsum with a number of short 

 hairs set in hyaline dots, and on margin longer hairs, some of them 

 very long, one each side behind is fully one-half the width of the 

 body; sternal shield rather longer than broad; epistome very long 

 and slender; legs rather long, second pair of male stoutest, all with 

 bristles, some under leg II spine-like, a very long bristle on femur IV, 

 much shorter one on femur III, in female there is also a very long 

 one on femur II. 



Length 1 mm. 



On the Scarabseid, Dynastes hercules, from Costa Rica (Calvert). 



Explanation of Plates XXVIII-XXX. 



Plate XXVIII. — Fig. 1. — Singa dotana. 

 Fig. 2. — Teminius conjunda, vulva. 

 Fig. 3. — Zimiromus fragilis, spinnerets. 

 Fig. 4. — Anyphcena pretiosa, vulva. 

 Fig. 5. — Anyphaena furcalella, palpus. 

 Fig. 6. — Stygnoleptes analis, leg IV. 

 Fig. 7. — Theridion biolleyi, palpus. 

 Fig. 8. — Chetnmis punctigera, vulva. 

 Fig. 9. — Zimiromus fragilis, eyes. 

 Fig. 10. — Anyphcena fiMTcaiella, vulva. 

 Fig. 11. — Singa dotana, vulva. 

 Fig. 12. — Zimiromus fragilis, vulva. 

 Fig. 13. — Stygnoleptes analis, palpus. 

 Fig. 14. — Pelayo insignis, vulva. 



Plate XXIX. — Fig. 15. — Uropoda bisetosa. 

 Fig. 16. — Chelanops uniformis. 

 Fig. 17. — Hypoaspis distaiis, and epistome. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 687 



Fig. 18. — Chelanops uniformis. 



Fig. 19. — Uropoda clavisetosa, and hairs. 



Fig. 20. — Ccelenopsis angustus. 



Plate XXX. — Fig. 21. — Tromhidium furcipes, palpus, tarsus, and hairs on 

 dorsum. 

 Fig. 22. — Rhyncholophus stolli, palpus. 

 Fig. 23. — Edricus tricuspis. 

 Fig. 24. — Rhyncholophus stolli. 

 Fig. 25. — Rhtjncholophus stolli, legs I and IV. 




688 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



THE ANATOMY OF TWO BRAZILIAN LAND SHELLS, ANOSTOMA 

 DEPRESSITM AND TOMIGERUS CLAUSUS. 



BY HAROLD HEATH. 



Among the many strange species of Brazilian land shells, those 

 belonging to the genus Anostoma and Tomigerus present the most 

 unusual characters. In the first named the last whorl of the shell 

 is "straightened, turning toward the margin and upward" (Pilsbry^), 

 so that the visceral mass is carried upside down. Pilsbry has sug- 

 gested that, judging by the growth lines, the shell is carried at first 

 with the equatorial plane nearly vertical, and that as the last whorl 

 is being added the animal falls to the right, thus undergoing a twist- 

 ing process which brings the spire of the shell into a reversed position. 

 Unfortunately, no young, living individuals were secured by the 

 Stanford Expedition, but in the shell (PI. XXXI, figs. 2, 4) of one imma- 

 ture specimen the free borders are highly angular, and if held in an 

 upright position, as Pilsbry suggests, would offer the least possible 

 resistance in moving about through the grassy regions where these 

 snails abound. 



The specimens of Anostoma on which this paper is based were found 

 in the low hilly country in the neighborhood of Baixa Verde, a small 

 settlement between 40 and 50 kilometers to the northwest of Natal. 

 A fire had swept the region in comparatively recent times, and 

 fragments of shells were everywhere abundant in the scrubby under- 

 brush of the rocky hills. Extended search brought to light a single 

 living individual in a profound state of sestivation, Avhich a prolonged 

 stay in a moist chamber failed to terminate. In addition, five dead 

 shells were discovered in a heap of stones, and were measured and 

 described in the field. According to my notes made at the time, 

 they vary in greatest diameter from 33 to 37 mm. ; in lesser diameter 

 from 24.5 to 28.5 mm.; and in altitude from 16 to 17.5 mm. Also 

 in regard to the number and position of the apertural teeth or lamella? 

 there is considerable variation. In two specimens there are seven, 

 two of them being parietal ; in another there are likewise two parietal 

 folds, but the columellar lamella is absent; in the remaining two 

 there are three parietal folds, the middle one curving behind the 



1 Manual of Conchology, Vol. XIV. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 689 



angle lamella as in A. ododentatum , while of the lip teeth the colu- 

 mellar fold is lacking entirely in one specimen, and is almost com- 

 pletely obsolete in the other. Where the color persisted, the 

 peristome was pinkish-brown or flesh tinted and characteristic of the 

 species. The immature shell measures 21 by 18 mm. in width, 

 with an altitude of 10.5 mm.; the axis is hollow and the mouth 

 possesses no lamellae. 



After the living specimen had been decalcified and sketched (PI. 

 XXXI, fig. 3), it was stained and sectioned, all the study of the various 

 systems being made from reconstructions. The head region was 

 highly contracted, and was not examined to any considerable extent. 

 The unusual length of the mantle cavity, extending from the peri- 

 cardium to the external pore, is reflected in the great length of the 

 mantle arteries and veins, as well as that of the ureter and portions 

 of the reproductive system. Otherwise there are no especially 

 noteworthy features beyond what are indicated in the figures. 



The kidney, placed between the pericardial and body walls on the 

 anterior face of the last fold, presents the usual sac-like appearance. 

 Evidently the reno-pericardial opening is minute, if it exists at all, 

 for a careful study of sections failed to disclose its whereabouts. 

 The ureter, likewise, is difficult to trace throughout a portion of its 

 course. Its external opening is immediately behind that of the 

 alimentary canal, and from this point is readily followed to the 

 region of the pericardium, where it decreases in caliber and passes 

 into a network of blood vessels. Furthermore, the present specimen 

 was slightly damaged in the region of the columellar muscle, thus 

 adding to the difficulty of tracing the connections. It appears that 

 the kidney is in contact, along its inner face, with a slender sack or 

 tube with which the ureter communicates. 



The digestive system (PI. XXXI, fig. 6) requires no especial descrip- 

 tion. A highly intelligent native lad of Baixa Verde is responsible 

 for the statement that Anostoma lives solely on vegetable matter; 

 at all events, several specimens, that he kept for several months, 

 thrived on garden vegetables and moss. He had made no observa- 

 tions on the position of the body in young individuals. 



The description of the reproductive system of A. ringens, as 

 described by Fischer ,2 applies in all essential details to A. depressum^ 

 with the exception of a penis retractor muscle attached to the vas 

 deferens. In A. depressum the external reproductive pore, located 



^Joiir. de Conchyl, 1869, p. 261. 




690 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



on the right side of the head, leads into a small atrium with which 

 the penis, hermaphroditic duct, and seminal receptacle attach. 

 The first named is a heavy, muscular organ, accompanied by the 

 usual slender vas deferens, their union being effected at some distance 

 from the distal end of the penis, which thus forms a flagellum (PI. 

 XXXI, fig. 7, f). As the flagellum thus holds identically the same 

 position as the so-called penis retractor in A. ringeris, I am strongl}^ 

 inclined to the opinion that we are actually dealing with flagella in 

 both instances. In the present specimen the penis and flagellum 

 are both sharply defined and appear to be without muscular attach- 

 ments, though bound to the body wall by delicate connective tissue 

 strands. In the neighborhood of the outer opening, however, the 

 penis sheath affords attachment for three or four slender muscle 

 bands that I am inclined to regard as penis retractors. 



The hermaphroditic duct, a highly glandular duct of comparatively 

 even diameter, traverses the greater portion of the first coil of the 

 body to enter the accessory glands. All of these structures are in a 

 quiescent condition, and in size and configuration probably fall far 

 short of their fully developed state in the sexually mature condition. 

 The same is likewise true of the gonad. While the duct leading to 

 it from the accessory glands is clearly apparent throughout the first 

 part of its course, it gradually approaches the vanishing point, and 

 cannot with certainty be traced to a gonad, which is accordingly 

 drawn in its hypothetical position. 



Two living specimens of Tomigerus clausus were found beneath 

 stones in the vicinity of Ceara-Mirim, a town about midway between 

 Baixa Verde and Natal. Both were in a state of aestivation, and 

 failed to revive, though kept in a moist chamber for several days. 

 It is evident from several features of the shell and internal organiza- 

 tion that the shell in this genus is carried with its principal axis 

 transverse to the longitudinal axis of the foot; that is, the spire is 

 directed to the right. The flattened surface of the outer whorl thus 

 rests upon the dorsal surface of the foot or upon the substratum 

 when the animal is in a state of aestivation, a position which they had 

 assumed in both instances. 



As each individual was in a highly contracted state, with foot and 

 head drawn far within the shell, external features are difficult to 

 determine. It appears certain, however, that the mantle, with 

 more highly thickened margins and more glandular epithelium than 

 in Anosto7na, extends throughout the first whorl of the shell to the 

 region adjacent to the aperture. It thus terminates at the point 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 691 



where the ureter (PI. XXXI, fig. 5, u) bends abruptly upon itself. The 

 external openings of the ureter and intestine occupy the usual 

 positions on the right side, and from this point pursue a course 

 parallel to the external surface of the body in close contact with the 

 mantle cavity. As noted previously^ the ureter bends sharply upon 

 itself at the termination of the mantle cavity, and, dorsally placed 

 with reference to this chamber, proceeds anteriorly to unite with the 

 forward extremity of the kidney. This last-named body is a com- 

 pact, sac-like body consisting, as usual, of highly folded glandular 

 epithelium confined, in the posterior half of the organ, to the outer 

 face. As may be seen in the diagram (PI. XXXI fig. 5), the peri- 

 cardium (p) is in contact with this glandular section throughout its 

 entire length, but is scarcely more than half as extensive. The 

 reno-pericardial opening was not observed. It may be added that 

 the kidney is placed dorsally with reference to the pericardium. 



The reproductive system, considering that the gonad is in a 

 highly quiescent state, is comparatively large and more compact 

 than in Anostoma. The gonad consists of several slender diverticula 

 (probably three times as many as are indicated in PI. XXXI, fig. 1), 

 located in the apical whorls of the visceral mass. These contain 

 primitive sex cells undifferentiated into sperms and ova. The 

 hermaphroditic duct extends ventrally, close to the columella, and 

 shortly before entering the accessory glands attaches to a slender 

 pear-shaped organ, possibly a seminal vesicle, consisting of upwards 

 of ten small diverticula imbedded in a muscular sheath. These are 

 empty and give no sign of glandular activity. The accessory glands 

 are volummous, though inactive organs, whose general extent is 

 indicated in PL XXXI, fig. 1, ag, though several lobes give them a 

 much greater dorso-ventral thickness than can be shown in the 

 figure. The duct leading from the accessory glands becomes con- 

 siderably widened near its proximal extremity, and possibly functions 

 as a shell gland. As in Anostoma, the duct from the seminal recep- 

 tacle springs from this point, and, as a slender canal, proceeds to the 

 spacious sack situated in close proximity to the accessory glands. 

 The vas deferens, likewise, unites with the penis some distance from 

 its distal extremity, thus forming a flagellum (PL XXXI, fig. 1). No 

 penis retractor has been discovered in this region. On the other 

 hand, several strands attaching to the penis sheath in the neighbor- 

 hood of the outer opening may operate as retractors. 



The digestive system is sufficiently illustrated (PL XXXI, fig. 5) 

 to require no further explanation beyond the statement that three 

 distinct bile ducts open into the stomach. 




692 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Explanation of Plate XXXI. 



Fig. 1 .—Reproductive system of Tomigerus clausus, dorsal view, ag, accessory 

 glands; f, flagellum; g, gonad; r, seminal receptacle; v, seminal vesicle. 



Fig. 2. — Shell of young Anostoma depressum. 



Fig. 3. — Heart and kidney (k) of A. depressum, viewed from underside of spire. 



Fig. 4. — Shell of young A. depressum. 



Fig. 5. — Dorsal view of digestive tract, kidney (k), and pericardium (p) of 

 Tomigerus clausus. Contracted specimen. 



Fig. 6. — Digestive tract of A . depressum viewed from apex of spire. 



Fig. 7. — Reproductive system of A. depressum viewed from apex of shell, ag,. 

 accessory glands; f, flagellum; g, gonad; r, seminal receptacle. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 693 



The following Reports for 1913 were ordered to be printed: 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 

 The past year of the Academy has been tranquil and prosperous. 

 While nothing of unusual interest has transpired, the results of 

 routine work, in the increase of the Museum and Library and the 

 issue of the publications, are matters of congratulation. The 

 difficulty of securing desirable attendance at the meetings, noticed 

 in my last report, continues, the committee appointed to look after 

 the interests involved having been active only during the latter part 

 of the year. Better results may be secured for the coming sessions. 

 Ten meetings were addressed by F. D. Weidman, Edw. H. 

 Thompson, Johii M. Macfarlane, Philip P. Calvert, H. Newell 

 Wardle, William E. Hughes, Henry Skinner, T. Chalkley Palmer, 

 Charles S. Boyer, Hugo Bilgram, and W. H. van Sickle. 



Forty-four papers have been presented for publication as follows : 

 Henry W. Fowler, 7; Joseph C. Thompson, 4; A. P. Brown and 

 H. A. Pilsbry, 2; Amos P. Brown, 2; James A. G. Rehn, 2; J. A. G. 

 Rehn and Morgan Hebard, 2; Nathan Banks, 2; Morgan Hebard, 1 

 Will F. Thompson, 1; R. A. Speath, 1; Francis W. Pennell, 1 

 T. D. A. Cockerell, 1; E. G. Vanatta, 1; S. Stillman Berry, 1 

 Frederick D. W>idman, 1; Edgar T. W^herry, 1; Witmer Stone, 1 

 Clarence B. Moore, 1; Dr. A. Hrdlicka, 1; Herbert Campion, 1 

 Philip P. Calvert, 1 ; Henry A. Pilsbry, 1 ; R. W. Shufeldt 1 ; Thomas 

 Barbour, 1; William H. Dall, 1; Frederick Baker, 1; Annette 

 Frances Braun, 1; N. E. Mclndoo, 1; Harold Heath, 1, and Henry 

 Fox, 1. 



Thirty-three of these have been printed, two have been returned 

 to the authors, and nine remain in the editor's hands awaiting publi- 

 cation. 



The papers by Mr. Clarence B. Moore and Dr. Hrdlicka con- 

 stitute the first part of the sixteenth volume of the Journal. It 

 forms, as usual, a beautiful contribution to anthropological science. 

 The expense of publication has been borne by Mr. Moore. 



The contribution from Miss Annette F. Braun begins the second 

 part of the sixteenth volume of the Journal. It will be illustrated 

 by text figures and by two fine plates printed in color and furnished 

 by the author. 




694 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



The parts of the Proceedings published have amounted to 

 670 pages and 25 plates. Mr. Moore's contribution to the Journal 

 embraces 102 pages and two plates beautifully printed in color^ 

 besides a number of fine halftone illustrations. Of the Transac- 

 tions OF the American Entomological Society (Entomological 

 Section of the Academy), 248 pages and 26 plates have been pub- 

 lished, and of the Entomological News 432 pages and 14 plates 

 have appeared. Two numbers of the Manual of Conchology, 

 consisting of 112 pages and 27 plates, make the total output for the 

 year 1,564 pages and 94 plates. 



A careful revision of the exchange list has been made by Mr. Fox^ 

 Letters have been sent to a number of derelict societies asking for a 

 supply of deficiencies and announcing a suspension of correspondence 

 until their indebtedness be cancelled. This action has been produc- 

 tive of some good results. 



Eight members and one correspondent have been elected. The 

 deaths of sixteen members and six correspondents have been an- 

 nounced. Resignations of membership have been accepted from 

 Joshua L. Bailey, William S. Newcomet, and S. Harbert Hamilton. 



The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections, the Custodian of 

 the Isaac Lea Collections, and the Solicitor of the Academy in position 

 last year were reappointed by the Council. 



The interest so loyally manifested during his life by the Rev. 

 Leander T. Chamberlain in the condition and growth of the collection 

 of Eocene fossils associated with the memory of his father-in-law, 

 Isaac Lea, was further shown by a bequest of $5,000 for the care and 

 increase of the collection. Dr. Chamberlain died May 16, 1913. 



A bequest of .$10,000 has been received from Miss Anna Blanchard, 

 who died August 2, 1913. 



The Academy formally thanked Dr. Thomas Biddle for the 

 valuable additions he has made to the mammalian collections, 

 especially for the skeletons and mounted specimens of anthropoids. 



I regret to report that a bill which had passed the Senate and 

 House of Representatives, appropriating $90,000 to tKe Academy, 

 failed to receive the signature of the Governor and was therefore 

 inoperative. 



Samuel G. Gordon has been appointed a Jessup Fund student. 

 Miss Harriet Newell Wardle was reappointed on the female branch 

 of the endowment. 



In the Monday evening course of lectures, extending from January 

 6 to May 5, three lectures on problems of bird life were delivered 




1913.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 695 



by Dr. Witmer Stone ; one on milk-born epidemics of communicable 

 diseases by Dr. B. F. Royer; one on a sanitary survey of the Alle- 

 gheny water shed by Mr. T. Herbert Snow; three on anthropology 

 and ethnology by Dr. Spencer Trotter; three on entomology' by 

 Dr. Henry Skinner; three on studies in local plant life by Mr. 

 Stewardson Brown, and three on the natural history of the Hawaiian 

 Islands by Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry. 



The afternoon course for students of the Girls' High School began 

 October 8, and was largely attended. Two lectures each were 

 delivered by the following: Dr. Henry Skinner on insects; Dr. 

 Henry A. Pilsbry on crustaceans and mollusks; Dr. J. Percy Moore 

 on reptiles and mammals; Dr. Witmer Stone on birds, and INIr. 

 Stewardson Brown on plants. 



There has been a gratifying increase in attendance on all the 



courses. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The toll of death from among correspondents of -the Academy for 

 the year just closed was unusually heavy. The reported deceased 

 are Professor Robert Collett, Lord Avebury, Dr. Philip Lutley 

 Sclater, Professor Igino Cocchi, Dr. Joseph K. Corson, Professor 

 Arnim Baltzer, and Alfred Russel Wallace. 



Colonel Wm. C. Gorgas, U. S. A., was elected a correspondent. 



Invitations were received to send delegates or to participate 

 otherwise in the following-named projects of scientific interest: 

 The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the foundation 

 of the Dumfriesiiire and Galloway Natural History and Anti- 

 quarian Society; the movement for the establishment of a memorial 

 to Giovanni Schiaparelli ; the Twelfth International Geological 

 Congress, at which the Academy was represented by Professor 

 Edgar T. Wherry, Professor Florence Bascom, and Dr. R. A. F. 

 Penrose; the bicentenary jubilee of the Imperial Botanical Gardens 

 of St. Petersburg; the Ninth International Congress of Zoology, 

 to which the Prince of Monaco, Professor Ulric Dahlgren, and 

 Dr. Edward J. Nolan were appointed delegates; the fiftj'-year 

 birthday celebration of the Natural Science Society of Braunschweig; 

 the one hundred and twenty-fifth anniversary of the granting of the 

 first charter to the University of Pittsburgh ; the fiftieth anniversary 




696 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



jubilee of the Entomological Society of Ontario, which Dr. C. G. 

 Hewitt attended as the Academy's delegate; the Ninth International 

 Congress on Hydrology, Climatology and Geology-; the inauguration 

 exercises of the new President of Ursinus College, and the fiftieth 

 anniversary of the founding of the Imperial Society of the Friends 

 of Natural History, Anthropology and Ethnography of Moscow. 

 Letters of congratulation or more formal addresses were forwarded 

 to the executive officers of most of the events named, special attention 

 being given to those at which the Academy found it impossible to be 

 represented. 



Several communications from individuals or organizations, thank- 

 ing the Academy for courtesies extended, were received. Many 

 letters requesting information were answered or suitably referred, and 

 the routine correspondence was conducted as usual as shown in the 

 summary that follows: 



Communications received: 



Acknowledging receipt of the Academy's publications 455 



Transmitting publications to the Academy... 54 



Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies 3 



Invitations to learned gatherings, celebrations, etc 14 



Notices of deaths of scientific men ._ _. 5 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific and educational 



institutions, etc 20 



Photographs and biographies of correspondents ■ 2 



Letters from correspondents 10 



Miscellaneous letters 135 



Total received 698 



Communications forwarded: 



Acknowledging gifts to the Library 1,094 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies 112 



Acknowledging gifts to the Museum 75 



Acknowledging photographs and biographies 1 



Letters of sympathy or congratulation, addresses, etc 16 



Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents and delegates' creden- 

 tials 9 



Miscellaneous letters 157 



Annual reports sent to correspondents 248 



Total forwarded 1,712 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



I am happy to report a gratifying growth of the library during the 

 past year, the accessions amounting to a total of 9,735, an increase 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



697 



of nearly 1,000 more than the additions of the preceding year. The 

 sources of accession were as follows: 



Exchanges 



I. V. Williamson Fund 



General Appropriation 



United States Department of 

 Agriculture 



Authors 



James Aitken Meigs Fund 



Editors 



United States Bureau of Educa- 

 tion 



Dr. W. D. Bayley 



Geological Survey of Kentucky.. 



Thomas B. Wilson Fund 



Government of India 



Imperial Department of Agri- 

 culture, British West Indies.. 



New York Agricultural Experi- 

 ment Station 



United States Department of 

 the Interior 



Imperial Geological Survey of 

 Japan 



University of Nebraska Agri- 

 cultural Experiment Station... 



Government of Costa Rica 



Dr. W. U.Abbott 



Pan-American Union 



Ministerio de la Agi-icultura, 

 Argentine Republic 



Botanical Section of the 

 Academy 



Trustees of the British Museum.. 



Tennessee State Board of Ento- 

 mology 



Dr. C. W. Richmond 



Estacion Seismologica de Cartuj a 



Dr. E. J. Nolan 



United States War Department.. 



United States Department of 

 Commerce and Labor 



WilUam J. Fox 



American Iron and Steel Insti- 

 tute 



Dr. H. A. Pilsbry 



Colorado Agricultural College 



Wyoming State Geologist 



Dr. Henry Skinner 



Albert I, Prince de Monaco 



University of Wyoming 



Pennsylvania State Library 



Comrnission of Conservation of 



Canada 



Massachusetts Agricultm-al Ex- 

 periment Station 



PubUcation Committee of the 



Academy 



Maryland Geological Survey 



46 



4,288 

 1,954 

 1,330 



1,188 



192 



131 



63 



52 

 50 

 42 

 40 



28 



25 



Ceylon Marine Biological Lab- 

 oratory 



State Entomologist of lUinois... 



New Mexico College of Agri- 



. culture 



Pennsylvania Department of 

 Agriculture 



Pennsylvania Chestnut Tree 

 Blight Commission 



Wisconsin Geological and 

 Natural History Survey 



Victoria Department of Mines.. 



Rockefeller Sanitary Institute.... 



Wyoming State Board of Immi- 

 gration 



Illinois State Geological Survey 



Geological Survey of Alabama.. 



Illinois Bureau of Labor Statis- 

 tics 



Geological Survey of New Jersey 



Ciierpo de Ingenieros de Minas 

 del Peru 



Commission de la Belgica 



Washington Geological Survey.. 



Estate of Caleb J. Milne 



C. H. Fernald 



Florida State Geological Survey 



Iowa Geological Survey 



University of Pittsburgh 



Board of Park Commissioners, 

 San Francisco 



Missouri Bureau of Geology 

 and Mines 



John Laurence 



Government of Formosa 



Mrs. W. A. Lemly 



American Federation of Hygiene 



Danish Government 



Mrs. John Marcou 



French Government 



National Electric Lamp Asso- 

 ciation 



Herbert A. Gill 



University College, London 



New Orleans Progressive Union 



Geological Survey of Georgia 



Geological Survey of Ohio 



Minnesota Historical Society 



Miss A. L. Fries 



Delaware Valley Ornithological 

 Club ._ 



Ventura County Horticultural 

 Society 



Illinois State Museum 



Louisiana State Museum 



F. E. Fischer, Leipzig 



United States Brewers' Asso- 

 ciation 




698 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Of these 7,957 were pamphlets and parts of periodicals; 969 

 volumes, and 809 maps. 



They were distributed to the several departments of the library 

 as follows : 



Journals 6,193 Mineralogy 33 



Agriculture 1,297 Encyclopedias 27 



Geography 700 Mammalogy 17 



Geology 480 Physical Science 11 



Botany 240 Bibliography ;.... 10 



Entomology 154 Herpetology 9 



General Natural History 134 Ichthyology 4 



Voyages and Travels 118 Medicine 3 



Anatomy and Physiology 94 Mathematics 2 



Anthropology 65 Philology 2 



Helminthology 39 Chemistry 1 



Ornithology 37 Miscellaneous 47 



Conchology 36 



Among the serials not before in the collection and secured by 

 subscription, purchase, or exchange may be named: 



American Ethnological Society Publications. 



Apuntes de Historia Natural. Buenos Aires. 



Archives Botaniques du Nord de la France. Lille. 



Comptes Rendus, Conferences Internationale de Genetique. 



Eugenics Record Office, Bulletin and Memoirs. 



Fortschritte der Mineralogie, etc. Jena. 



Istituto Geologico della R. Universita di Padova, Memorie. 



Mededeelingen, Rijksopsporing van Delfstoffen. s'Gravenhage, 



Naturwissenschaften (Die). Berlin. 



Norsk Geologisk Tidsskrift. 



Palaeobotanische Zeitschrift. Berlin. 



Palaeontologische Zeitschrift. Berlin. 



Physiological Researches. Baltimore. 



Studies from Museum of Zoology, University College, Dundee. 



Termeszet. Budapest. 



Zeitschrift f. Pflanzenzuchtung. Berlin. 



Journal of the Polynesian Society, 4 vols. 



Memoires d'Histoire Naturelle (Societe Eduenne). Autun. 



Mitteilungen der Grossh. Badischen Geologischen Landesanstalt. Heidelbei-g. 



Zeitschrift f. Geognosie. Weimar. 



Academia Romana, Bulletin de la Section Scientifique. 



Academie Malgache, Bulletin. Tananarive. 



American Museum of Natural History, Monographs. New York. 



Bulletin of the University of Colorado. Boulder. 



Dansk Geologisk Forening, Meddelelser. Copenhagen. 



Department of Agriculture. Ceylon. 



Journal of the College of Agriculture, Tohoku Imperial University. 



Minnesota School of Mines Experiment Station. Bulletin. 



Mittheilungen der k. sachsischen forstliche Versuchsanstalt zu Tharandt. 



Resources of Tennessee. 



Societe Historique et Scientifique des Deux-Sevres. Niort. 



Societe Ouralienne des Amis des Sciences Naturelles, etc. Ekaterinburg. 



Tennessee State Geological Survey, Bulletin. 



Verein f. Naturwissenschaften an der Unterweser. Separate Schriften. Geeste- 



munde. 

 Washington University Studies. St. Louis. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 699 



As of special importance may be mentioned: 



Freyer. Beitraege z. Geschichte europ. Schmetterlinge. 3 vols. 

 Freyer. Neuere Beitraege z. Schmetterlingskunde. 7 vols. 

 Millais. British Diving Ducks. 

 Coal Resources of the World, 2 vols., text and folio Atlas. 



A specially illustrated copy of the Centenary volume of the 

 Journal, bound in two volumes, has been presented by the Record- 

 ing Secretary. They contain samples of all the documents and cards 

 used in connection with the centenary celebration, photographs of, 

 and autograph letters from everyone taking part in the meetings or 

 contributing communications to the volume, a photograph of the 

 dining hall with seated guests, lists of subscribers to the general 

 expense fund and to the dinner fund, proof and plates of an omitted 

 paper, statistics of distribution, text of the secretarj^'s unpublished 

 "Reminiscences," and a copy of the printers' bill. These volumes 

 cannot fail to be of increasing interest as the years go on. They 

 have been presented on condition that they be kept under lock and 

 key and inspected only in the presence of an officer of the Academy 

 or an attache of the library. 



Five hundred and eight volumes have been bound. 



The stack has been thoroughly cleaned and the windows so pro- 

 tected as to minimize the access of dust. 



We are indebted to Miss A. L. Fries for a collection of one hundred 

 and thirty-one letters addressed by American and foreign naturalists 

 to the Rev. David Lewis De Schweinitz with his certificates of 

 membership in the Academy and the Linnean Society of Paris. 

 The letters mostly relate to the work of Dr. De Schweinitz on the 

 fungi. 



In compliance with the law, 199 duplicate pamphlets and 58 maps 

 have been returned to the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



A proposition to alter the by-laws so as to permit of the loaning 

 of books, which had been long under consideration by the Council, 

 was reported on negatively. 



It gives me pleasure to again acknowledge my indebtedness to my 

 assistants, William J. Fox and Furman Shepherd Wilde, for the 

 conscientious and intelligent discharge of their duties. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Libranan. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



During the past year the work of the museum staff has been 

 mainly devoted to completing and improving the arrangement of 




700 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



the study collections, which, as stated in last year's report, had 

 nearly all been moved into new or renovated quarters, upon the 

 completion of the building operations in 1912. 



A large amount of work along these lines was necessary, and the 

 appended reports of the special departments will show in detail the 

 results that have been attained. 



In the departments of Entomology, Ornithology, and Botany, 

 which underwent the greatest changes, immense improvements have 

 been made in the arrangement of the collections, rendering them 

 much more accessible and providing for the accommodation of 

 additional accessions. 



Furthermore, these arrangements and the acquirement of addi- 

 tional storage cases will permit of the withdrawing of duplicate 

 material now on exhibition, especially in the departments of Con- 

 chology and Ornithology, and facilitate the display of the remainder 

 to much better advantage. In this connection the preparation of 

 descriptive labels is contemplated, while groups illustrative of the 

 life history of the species will be substituted for single mounts. 



Comparatively little change has been possible in the arrangement 

 of exhibits this year owing to the crowded condition of many of the 

 cases and the lack of new cases for the north wing. The former 

 condition will be remedied during the coming year, as already 

 explained, while it is hoped that enough new cases may be obtained 

 to permit of the reopening of the north wing. 



The greater part of the collection of vertebrate fossils has been 

 thoroughly cleansed, removed from the old table cases, and arranged 

 systematically in trays which have been temporarily placed under 

 the mahogany cases containing the exhibition series of fossil mol- 

 lusca. Here they are readily accessible for study until permanent 

 cases can be provided. 



The removal of the Wm. S. Vaux collection of minerals to the 

 old library hall has been completed and Mr. F. J. Keeley has rearranged 

 the specimens; while under his direction Mr. S. G. Gordon, a student 

 on the Jessup Fund, has continued the cataloguing of the collection 

 which was begun some years ago. The skeleton of the large Sperm 

 Whale, secured in 1911, has been placed temporarily in the centre of 

 this hall, where it has attracted much attention. This skeleton 

 together with one of the Mesoplodon makes the Academy's series of 

 the larger Cetaceans almost complete as far as genera are concerned. 

 Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continued his investigations of the 

 Indian mounds of the southern United States and has added a 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 701 



number of valuable specimens to his collection. The general archaeo- 

 logical collection has benefited as heretofore from the attention of 

 Miss H. N. Warden. 



Mr. Henry W. Fowler has, as usual, cared for the ichthj^ological 

 collection and has also incorporated all of the additions to the col- 

 lection of reptiles and amphibians and examined and rearranged 

 the entire series of alcoholic crustaceans. 



Dr. J. P. Moore has cared for the collections of worms as in previous 

 years. 



Work in other departments is described in the appended special 

 reports. 



In addition to the work of the museum staff, the Curators are 

 indebted to Mr, F. J. Keeley for the care of the Wm. S. Vaux col- 

 lection of minerals ; to Mr. Morgan Hebard for furnishing an assistant 

 in the entomological department to mount specimens of Orthoptera ; 

 to Dr. Amos P. Brown for the identification of many specimens of 

 invertebrate fossils, and to ]Messrs. S. S. VanPelt and Bayard Long 

 for the care of the local herbarium. 



Several notable expeditions have been undertaken liy members 

 of the museum staff. 



Dr. H. A. Pilsbry spent the first three months of the year in the 

 Hawaiian Islands making studies and collections for a monograph 

 of Hawaiian tree snails. Details of his work will be found in the 

 special report appended hereto. 



Mr. J. A. G. Rehn spent the month of July with Mr. Morgan 

 Hebard investigating the Orthoptera of the Southern States from 

 Virginia to Georgia. They made a valuable joint collection. 



Mr. Stewardson Brown again visited Bermuda in company with 

 Dr. N. L. Britton, in September, and continued the investigation of 

 the flora of the island. 



Many short trips were also undertaken which have added largely 

 to the local collections of fishes, reptiles, insects, moUusks, plants, etc. 



Fifty-two storage cases and two-hundred and two insect boxes 

 have been purchased during the year. 



Many valuable additions have been received bj' gift, purchase, and 

 exchange, as set forth in the accompanying list of accessions. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, Philadelphia Botanical 

 Club, and Pennsylvania Audubon Society have held their meetings 

 regularly at the Academy during the year and the American Asso- 

 ciation of Museums convened here for their annual meeting in April. 



The attendance in the museum is constantly increasing, especially 




702 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



school classes accompanied by teachers. Out-of-town schools have 

 visited the museum in a body, while Philadelphia schools, notably 

 the High School for Girls, have sent the scholars in sections for the 

 study of special departments in regular sequence. 



The classes from the School of Industrial Art have also attended 

 regularly for the purpose of sketching the osteological and other 

 exhibits. 



Extensive use has been made of the study collections in all depart- 

 ments by visiting specialists, while specimens have been loaned to 

 Robert Ridgway, W. W. Cooke, W. G. Mazyck, M. L. Fernald, 

 H. W. Henshaw, J. H. Ashworth, R. H. Howe, O. P. Hay, R. South- 

 ern, E. W. Nelson, E. S. Shumann, F. M. Chapman, M. J. Rathbun, 

 and H. C. Oberholser. 



A series of mounted mammals of Pennsylvania was contrib- 

 uted to the exhibition of the State Forestry Association. 



Samuel G. Dixon, 



Executive Curator. 



Report of the Department of Mollusca. 



Accessions to the collection of mollusks have been received from 

 66 persons and institutions during the year. 



Valuable material has been collected by several expeditions made 

 by members or friends of the Academy. Mr. J. H. Ferriss spent 

 four months in Arizona, exploring the Santa Catalina and White 

 Mountains, finding an abundant fauna of land mollusks at elevations 

 up to 13,000 feet. As the localities had not been visited before by a 

 collector of shells and the species are largely local, he secured a large 

 number of species new- to science and valuable zoogeographic data. 

 The collections made have been generously shared with the Academy. 



Doctor Amos P. Brown gave the Academy a collection of the 

 mollusca of the island of Antigua, B. W. I., taken by him during the 

 summer. It is probably nearly or quite complete for land forms and 

 includes also a considerable number of marine shells. 



The Special Curator spent a few days over three months in visiting 

 the Hawaiian Islands, chiefly for the purpose of studying land snails 

 of the family Achatinellidm, both in the field and in Hawaiian col- 

 lections. Over 1,000 lots of shells in trays and bottles have been 

 labelled and catalogued, and about an equal number remain to be 

 worked over. Special attention was given to the deposits of fossil 

 land shells, and about 20,000 specimens of fossils were collected. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 703 



So far as studied, these collections show that the fossil faunas of the 

 several islands are much more closel}" related to one another than are 

 the living faunas. The theory that the islands are portions of a 

 former large land-area, now dismembered by subsidence, is therefore, 

 emphatically supported by the new data obtained. Collections 

 were made on Oahu, Molokai, Hawaii, and the uninhabited island 

 Kahoolawe. The success of the expedition was largely due to the 

 generous hospitality of the Bishop Pauahi Museum, Doctor C. 

 Montague Cooke, Mr. George Cooke, Mr. Irwin Spalding, Mr. D. 

 Thaanum, and others, who in many ways assisted the investigation. 



The time of the Special Curator since his return has been largely 

 occupied with work on material brought back and with the current 

 work of the department. Papers have been published on Lower 

 Californian Helices and various other topics and Mr. Vanatta pub- 

 lished upon new marine mollusks. 



With the assistance of Dr. A. P. Brown, who devoted considerable 

 time to the work, progress has been made in the arrangement of the 

 invertebrate fossils. Dr. Brown has presented to the Academy a 

 collection of Oligocene fossils which he made in Antigua and de- 

 scribed in the Proceedings of the Academy. 



Miss Winchester, artist of the department, has continued her 

 work throughout the year. Mr. Vanatta was assigned to work in 

 the Entomological Department on April 1st, but since December 1st 

 has returned to the Department of MoUusca. The Curator has 

 also had the assistance of Miss Ziegler, who has spent five months 

 in assorting minute shells from the Hawaiian Islands. 



H. A. PiLSBRY, 



Special Curator. 



Report of Curator of William S. Vaux Collections. 



During the past year, the collection of minerals was removed to 

 its new quarters in what was formerly the Library Hall, and during 

 the past few months, with the assistance of Mr. S. G. Gordon, rapid 

 progress has been made on the cataloguing, and numbering of the 

 mineral specimens. 



Twenty-two specimens have been added to the collection during 

 the year, in the selection of which, the established precedent of 

 securing quality rather than quantity has been adhered to. The 

 most important accessions include a suite of aerolites from Hol- 

 brook, Ariz.; tantalum, Altai Mountains; andorite, Oruro; enargite. 




704 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Morococha; monticellite, Magnet Cove; natrochalcite, Chuoui- 

 camata; diamond in matrix, S. Africa; ehiastolite, California; 

 gageite, Franklin, N. J.; delafossite and mottramite, Bisbee, Ariz. 



Respectfully submitted, 



F. J. Keeley, 

 Curator William S. Vaux Collection. 



REPORTS OF SECTIONS. 

 Biological and Microscopical Section. 



The Section held nine regular meetings during the year with the 

 usual attendance. 



Various communications were made by Messrs. Morris, Palmer, 

 Keeley, Stewart, Van Sickel, Schuino, Bilgram, and Boyer. 



At the annual meeting with the Academy, the program included 

 addresses by Mr. T. C. Palmer, on the collecting and preparing of 

 Diatoms; by Mr. Charles S. Boyer, on Philadelphia Diatoms; 

 by Mr, W. H. Van Sickel, on the methods of labelling shdes; and 

 by Mr. Hugo Bilgram, on rock inclusions. 



The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: 



Director Dr. J. Cheston Morris. 



Vice-Director T. Chalkley Palmer. 



Recorder .*. Charles S. Boyer. 



Corresponding Secretary Silas L. Schumo. 



Treasurer Dr. Thomas S. Stewart. 



Curator ., F. J. Keeley. 



Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 



Report of the Entomological Section. 



Two hundred and fourteen glass-covered boxes have been pur- 

 chased to accommodate the growth of the collections. Nine thousand 

 one hundred and eighty-seven specimens have been added by gift, 

 purchase, and exchange, and most of them have been mounted and 

 incorporated. 



Thirty-four drawers of Lepidoptera have been transferred to make 

 room for other insects and one cabinet was emptied and sold. 



The families Geometridse and Sphingidse, the genera Ornithoptera 

 and Papilio, and the life-histories have been rearranged. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 705 



In the Coleoptera the exotic species from CicindeUdse to Scara- 

 beidse have been transferred to the Ridings cabinets. All the named 

 exotic species that were not incorporated have been added to the 

 exotic collection. The Zimmerman collection, the Poey, Cuban 

 collection and the Salle collection of Mexican species have all been 

 labelled. 



In the North American series the rearrangement of the Carabidse 

 and the Gyrinidse have been completed and the Hydrophilidie in 

 part. 



The Horn types in Carabidse and Elateridse have been labelled; 

 also the Curculionidse and some of the smaller families. 



The following families have also been rearranged : Rhinomaceridae^ 

 Rhynchitidse, Attelabidae, Brysopidse, Otiorhynchidse, Curculionid8&, 

 Brenthidse, Calandridae, Scolytidae, Anthribidse, Haliplidse, and 

 Dytiscidse. 



More than a hundred species undetermined in the Horn collection 

 have been named by specialists and incorporated. 



In the order Hymenoptera the family Chalcididae has been re- 

 arranged. 



In the Diptera the Sapromyzidae and Agromyzidce have been 

 determined and rearranged, and the Stratiomyidae, Culicidae, and 

 SyriphidsB have been put in better order. 



The Odonata have all been transferred to glass-topped drawers 

 with the exception of some specimens on which studies are being 

 made. 



The work on the order Orthoptera has been as follows: 



The North American and exotic collections of Dermaptera and 

 Blattidee have been rearranged in the large glass-top boxes in which 

 the whole collection of these orders will eventually be displayed. 



Some thousands of specimens from numerous exotic localities have 

 been relaxed and mounted and in part permanently labelled, pre- 

 paratory to study. The series of the genera Dichopetala, Insara, 

 and Arethcea have been critically studied by Messrs. Rehn and 

 Hebard, the latter spending a number of months monographically 

 studying the North and Central American crickets of the genus 

 Nemobius. To complete these studies, all the types in America 

 and certain of those in European collections were examined by 

 one or other of the authors. A faunistic paper on the Orthoptera 

 of the Florida Keys and extreme Florida was prepared by the 

 same workers, based wholly on material collected by the Hebard- 

 Academy Expedition of 1912. Mr. Relm has studied two extensive 




706 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



collections of Argentine Orthoptera, the first set of each becoming 

 the property of the Academy, while work by him on a large series of 

 Brazilian material is now under way. 



During the summer of 1912 Messrs. Rehn and Hebard spent four 

 weeks in the field in the Piedmont regions of the Southeastern States 

 collecting Orthoptera, while in October and November Mr. Hebard 

 made collections in Jamaica and Panama which will, when studied, 

 add greatly to the value of the series of Orthoptera. 



Mr. Hebard during the last year deposited the last section of his 

 collection in the Academy. Numerous specimens have been received 

 from him as distributions of the Bruner Collection material, these 

 often of great value on account of their determination by their 

 former owner. 



Mr. Hebard has continued to employ help in preparing the series 

 of Dermaptera and Orthoptera secured by field work in which he is 

 interested, thus affording material assistance to the department. 



The Academy has acquired by purchase a valuable series of 

 Orthoptera from Trinidad, British Guiana, Peru, Ecuador, and 

 Colombia. The Orthoptera collections of German Central African 

 Expedition of 1910-1911, have been received for study, as well as a 

 number of other series from different sources. 



There is now assembled in one room in the Academy the largest 

 series of Orthoptera and Dermaptera in America and one of the largest 

 in the world, the number of specimens exceeding one hundred and 

 fifty thousand, almost entirely an accumulation of the last fifteen years. 



The Conservator spent several weeks during the summer col- 

 lecting in the White Mountains of New Hampshire and succeeded 

 in securing a number of rare species for the collection. 



The usual meetings of the Section have been held, with an average 

 attendance of eight persons. Four Associates have been elected. 



At the annual meeting, held December 8, the following persons 

 were elected to serve as officers for the ensuing year. 



Director Philip Laurent. 



Vice-Director Henry W. Wenzel. 



Treasurer Ezra T. Cresson. 



Conservator Henry Skinner. 



Secretary James A. G. Rehn. 



Recorder Henry Skinner. 



Publication Committee E.T. Cresson and E.T. Cresson, Jr. 



Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 707 



Report of the Botanical Section. 



During the year, following the policy of replacement of the old 

 wooden cases by metal ones, further changes have been made in the 

 arrangement of the herbarium. 



The Academy has furnished the herbarium during the year twenty 

 additional tins, part of which have been installed in the place of 

 the wooden cases formerly occupying the east wall of the north 

 room, the balance having been used to relieve the crowding in the 

 central room. The wooden cases thus removed have been placed 

 on the east wall of the local room, relieving temporarily the over- 

 crowding of this rapidly growing section. The cases taken from the 

 local room have been re-erected in the central gallery room and are 

 being used at present for storage. 



More than 10,000 specimens have been added to the general 

 herbarium during the year, the largest accessions being the herbarium 

 of Dr. C. D. Fretz, of Sellersville, Pa., presented to the Academy. 

 It numbers approximately 5,000 sheets, about one-third of which 

 have been assigned to the local herbarium. A large exchange of 

 several thousand plants has been secured from the Trenton Museum, 

 and smaller collections from the New York Botanical Garden, Gray 

 Herbarium, and University of Pennsylvania, with donations from 

 Charles S. WilUam5on and others. A majority of these plants have 

 been mounted and installed in the collections. 



During September the Conservator spent three weeks in Bermuda, 

 continuing his studies there in company with Dr. and Mrs. N. L. 

 Britton, of the New York Botanical Garden. On this occasion 

 particular attention was paid to the plants in several of the old gar- 

 dens in the vicinity of Hamilton and St. George's, much assistance 

 being rendered by Mr. E. J. Wortley, of the Agricultural Gardens. 

 Many specimens of interesting tropical plants were collected. They 

 wall add greatly to the value of our study material. 



During the year the Philadelphia Botanical Club has held its 

 meetings regularly in the herbarium rooms, and its members as well 

 as many visiting botanists have made much use of the collections. 



Mr. S. S. Van Pelt has continued his valued services in the care of 

 the local collection, and the Section is indebted to Mr. Bayard Long 

 for important assistance in the same field. 



At the annual meeting held November 20, the following officers 

 were elected. 




708 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC,^ 



Director Benjamin H. Smith. 



Vice-Director Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder Charles S. Williamson. 



Treasurer and Conservator Stewardson Brown. 



Respectfully submitted 



Stewardson Brown, 



Conservator. 



MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Section has held four meetings this year, with an average 

 attendance of twelve. 



Communications were made by Dr. E. T. Wherry, on crystal 

 analysis; by Dr. Thomas C. Brown, on the geology of the Catskill 

 Aqueduct; by Dr. T. C. Brown, on a canoe trip in Northern Quebec; 

 and by Dr. Florence Bascom, on an excursion of the International 

 Geological Congress north of Lake Ontario. There were alsO' 

 shorter communications and various discussions. 



In addition, the Section had one meeting in conjunction with the 

 Academy, and Dr. E. T. Wherry then reported on the International 

 Geological Congress held at Toronto last August. 



The Section had six field excursions, with an average attendance of 

 .17. Visits were made to: (1) Crystalline rocks near Glen Mills 

 and Lenni, on Chester Creek and at Black Horse, Delaware County; 

 (2) Crystalline rocks and their minerals near the Falls of French 

 Creek, Chester County; (3) Crystalline rocks near Holmesburg and 

 Rolandsville, Philadelphia; (4) New Red Perkasie shales and 

 Pottstown shales and trap, near Schwenksville, Montgomery County; 

 (5) Graphite deposits near Byers, Chester County; (6) Crystalline 

 rocks and Cambrian, near Pennypack Creek, Montgomery County. 



One new member and tAvo associate members were elected. 



The following officers of the Section have been elected for the year 

 1914: 



Director Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



Vice-Director Frank J. Keeley. 



Recorder and Secretary Silas L. Schumo. 



Treasurer William B. Davis. 



Conservator George Vaux, Jr. 



Respectfully submitted by order of the Section. 



Benjamin Smith Lyman, 



Director, 




1913.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 709 



Report of the Ornithological Section. 



More progress has been made in the arrangement of the study 

 series of birds during the year just closed than has been possible for 

 many years past. 



Mr. D. E. Culver, who has occupied a Jessup studentship during 

 the year, has devoted nearly all of his time to the relaxing and 

 renovation of the old unmounted specimens. Many hundreds of 

 these birds have thus been converted into excellent skin specimens, 

 while the cases have been thoroughlj^ cleansed as the work continued. 

 All of the lower groups of birds, comprising those of large size, 

 liave been worked over in this way, as well as the whole series of 

 Picariae, most of the Clamatores, and one or two families of the 

 Oscines, so that the work will be easily completed early in the coming 

 year. 



The Conservator took up each family of the water birds as the 

 relaxing was completed and arranged them systematically, reidentify- 

 ing many specimens and checking them up in Sharpe's Hand List. 

 He also interpolated in the collection some 5,000 specimens that have 

 been acquired during past years but not systematically arranged 

 for lack of cases, a need that was met this year by the addition of ten 

 double-sized metal storage cases. 



Iron-pipe racks were also erected for holding the cases in place of 

 the temporary wooden racks previously in use, while the fronts of 

 all the cases have been painted cream color, which gives them a much 

 neater appearance and adds materially to the light in the alcoves. 

 The floor of the room has also been painted with cemitite, which has 

 hardened the concrete and stopped the constant wearing away of 

 the surface in the form of fine dust. 



The removal of certain old wooden cases will permit the arrange- 

 ment of the local collection to much better advantage. 



A number of additions have been made during the year to the local 

 .exhibition collection, and others are in the course of preparation. 

 No rearrangement or further reduction of the general exhibition 

 •collection has been possible, but with the acquisition of additional 

 storage cases it is hoped in the coming year to unmount a number of 

 duplicates and arrange the remaining specimens to much better 

 advantage. 



There have been a number of very important accessions to the 

 study collection during the year, notable among which were two 

 hundred and thirty-seven West African birds, obtained from George 




710 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



L. Bates, and four hundred and fifty specimens from Santa Marta^ 

 Colombia. These added many species not heretofore represented. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and Pennsylvania 

 Audubon Society have held their meetings regularly at the Academy 

 and have done much to stimulate interest in the department, while 

 numerous ornithologists from other institutions have made use of 

 the collections. 



At the annual meeting of the Section, held December 4, 1913, the 

 following officers were elected for the ensuing year: 



Director Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



Vice-Director George Spencer Morris. 



Recorder Stewardson Brown. 



Secretary William A. Shryock. 



Treasurer and Conservator Witmer Stone. 



WiTMER Stone, 



Conservator. 



The annual election of Officers, Councillors, and Members of the 

 Committee on Accounts was held December 16, with the following 

 result: 



President Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D. 



Vice-Presidents Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Sc.D. 



John Cadwalader, A.M. 



Recording Secretary Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Curators Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 

 Henry Tucker, M.D. 



Councillors to serve three YEARS.Edwin S. Dixon, 



Henry Skinner, M.D., 

 Robert G. LeConte, M.D., 

 George Spencer Morris. 



Committee on Accounts Charles Morris, 



Samuel N. Rhoads, 

 John G. Rothermel, 

 Thomas S. Stewart, M.D., 

 Walter Horstman. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 711 



COUNCIL FOR 1914. 



Ex-Officio.—^Simuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Edwin G. Conklin, 

 Ph.D., John Cadwalader, A.M., Edward J. Nolan, M.D., 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, 

 Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., Henry Tucker, M.D. 



To serve three years. — Edwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D.,. 

 Robert G. LeConte, M.D., George Spencer Morris. 



To serve two ymrs.— Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Thomas Biddle, M.D., 

 Frank J. Keeley, Thomas G. Ashton, M.D. 



To serve one year. — Charles B. Penrose, M.D., LL.D., Ph.D., Charles 

 Morris, Spencer Trotter, M.D., William E. Hughes, M.D. 



Councillor George Vaux, Jr. 



Curator of Mollusca Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 



Curator of William S. Vaux Col- 

 lections ' Frank J. Keele3^ 



Custodian of Isaac Lea Collection Joseph Willcox. 



Assistant Librarian William J. Fox. 



Assistants to Curators Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D.^ 



Stewardson Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 James A. G. Rehn, 

 Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. 



Assistant in Library Furman Sheppard Wilde. 



Aid in Archeology Harriet Newell Wardle. 



Aid in Herbarium Ada Allen. 



Taxidermist David M. McCadden. 



Janitors .-. Charles Clappier, 



Daniel Heckler, 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aebley, 

 Adam E. Heckler. 



STANDING COMMITTEES. 



Finance. — John Cadwalader, A.M., Edwin S. Dixon, Effingham B. 



Morris, William D. Winsor, and the Treasurer. 

 Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William S. Fox, Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 




712 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Library. — George Vaux, Jr., Henry Tucker, M.D., Frank J. Keeley, 



Thomas Biddle, M.D., Witmer Stone, Sc.D. 

 Instruction and Lectures. — Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles 



Morris, Henry Tucker, M.D., George Spencer Morris, and 



Stewardson Brown. 



ELECTIONS IN 1913. 

 Members. 



January 21. — Alfred M. Collins, E. Marshall Scull, J. Henry Scatter- 

 good. 



October ;gi .— ClarenceE. McClung, Ph.D., Edw. B. Krumbhaar, M.D. 



November 18. — Herbert H. Gushing, M.D., Harley Stamp, M.D., 

 J. Ewing Mears, M.D. 



Correspondent. 

 MarcK'lS. — Col. W. C. Gorgas, of Panama. 




1913.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 713 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM, 

 1913. 



Ai.EXANDER Calder. A statuette of Alexander Wilson. 

 Mammals. 



Dr. W. L. Abbott (through Miss Gertrude Abbott). Pair of Elephant 

 tusks, East Africa. 



Charles W. Beck. Whale vertebrae, Beach Haven, N. J. 



Dr. Thomas Biddle. Mounted specimens of Siamang {Symphalangus syn- 

 dactylus), two species of gibbons {Hylohales agilis and leuciscus), and Black Ape 

 {Cynopithecus niger), 



Fairmoitnt Park Ac. uarium. Harbor Seal {Phoca viiuUna) . Prepared as skin 

 and skull. 



Miss Laurie V. Groves. Skin and skull of Cow Moose {Alces americanus) . 

 Tree trunk cut by Beavers. 



Dr. Morris Lewis. Mounted head of Moose {Alces americanus), Alaska. 



George W. MacWilliams. Persian Cat (Pure chinchilla "Normandy") 

 Mounted. 



Richard Moessner and D. P. Currey. Ziphoid Whale {Mesoplodon sp.), 

 Corson's Inlet, N. J. 



Edgar A. Smith. Phyllo.stominc bat {ArtiheuR sp.), Rio Madeira, Brazil. 



James Stanton. Skull of Bottle-nosed Dolphin {Tursiops truncaliis) , Two 

 Mile Beach, N. J. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted: Jaguar (Felis onca); 

 European Wild Cat {Felis catus). Prepared as skin and skeleton: Mountain 

 Zebra {Equ us zebra); Cheetah {Cynailurus jubalus); Red River Hog {Potamochoe- 

 Tus porcus). Prepared as skin and skull: Vervet Monkey {Lasiopyga pygery- 

 thra); Silky Marmoset {Leontocebus rosalia); Golden Cat {Felis temmincki); 

 Water Mongoose {Herpestes brachyurus); Japanese Bear {Ursus japonicus); 

 California Sea Lion {Zalophus californianus) . Prepared as skin: Dasyure 

 {Dasyurus sp.). Prepared as skeleton: Puma {Felis concolor); Clouded Leopard 

 {Felis nebulosa); Persian Wild Ass {Eguus onager). Prepared as skull: Fishing 

 Cat (Felis viverrina); Indian Antelope {Antilopc cervicapra) ; Azara's Aguti 

 {Dasyprocta azarce). 

 Purchased. Female Orang-utan {Pongo pygmoeus). 



Birds. 

 Dr. W. L. Abbott (through Miss Gertrude Abbott). Collection of nests of 

 Edible-nest Swiftlet. 



F. H. Kennard. Nine skins of the Heath Hen {Tympanuchus cupido), 

 Martha's Vineyard, Mass. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Several nests and sets of eggs 

 of Pennsylvania and New Jersey birds. 

 •47 




714 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Abbott H. Thayer. Skin of Perisoreus infaustus. 



Nelson E. Varnum. Albino Kingbird {Tyrannus lyrannus), Atco, N. J- 



Mrs. Pendleton G. Watmough. Two Rhea eggs. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted: South African Ostrich 

 {StTuthio camelus); Helmeted Cassowary (Casuarius uniappendiculahis occipi- 

 talis). Prepared as skin and skeleton: Penguin {Spheniscus magellanicus) . Pre- 

 pared as skin: Meyer's Parrot {Poeocephalus meyeri); Mississippi Kite (Ictinia 

 mississippiensis) . Egg of Agapornis nigrigenis. 



Purchased. Four Kirtland's Warblers {Dendroica kirllandi), Michigan; 237 

 birds from Cameroons, West Africa; 470 birds from Santa Marta, Colombia. 



Reptiles and Amphibians. 



Richard M. Abbott. Four specimens of Spadefoot Toad {Scaphiopus hol- 

 brookii), Trenton, N. J. 



August and Karl Behr. Jar of salamanders, Jennings, Md. 



Dr. Ward Brinton. Small collection of reptiles, Chitzen Itza, Yucatan. 



H. H. Burton. Collection of reptiles, Mattawa, Canada. 



Elwood R. Casey. Lizard {Liocephalus sp.?), Cuba. 



California Academy of Sciences. Several frogs and salamanders. Loo 

 Choos, Japan and California. 



Delos E. Culver. Three lots of reptiles and amphibians, Pennsylvania. 



D. E. Culver and A. Lahey. Coluber constrictor and Thamnophis sirlalis, 

 Delaware County, Pa. 



A. and O. Dorr. Water Snake (Matrix sipedon), Connelton, W. Va. 



Fairmount Park Aquarium. Loggerhead Turtle (Caretla caretta), New 

 Jersey coast. 



J. H. Ferris. Snake. Lizard (Phrynosoma solare), Arizona. 



Dr. J. W. Renney. Two snakes, Iquitos, Peru. 



Dr. Henry Tucker. Diadophis punctatus, Clearwater, Fla. 



R. W. Wehrle. Collection of amphibians, Indiana, Pa. 



Dr. H. B. Wood. Ambystoma punctatum, Rhode Island. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Galapagos tortoise (Testudo sp.?) 

 and young Mud Turtle (Kinosternon flavescens). 



Fishes. 



Ralph Adams. Seahorse (Hippocampus) . 



American Museum of Natural History (in exchange). Small collection 

 of fishes. 



A. R. Burton and H. W. Fowler. Four jars of fishes. Ocean City, Md. 



H. H. Burton. Four jars of fishes, Mattawa, Canada. 



H. H. Burton and H. W. Fowler. Two lots of fishes, Pennsylvania. 



Delos E. Culver. Three lots of fishes, Pennsylvania. 



L. M. DoRSEY, Jr. Panlodon bucholtzi. 



Miss Mary C. Du Boise. Dry Burr-fish (Diodon sp.?). 



H. W. Fowler. Several jars of fishes, Delaware. 



Edward Nolan Fox. Two small collections of fishes. Sea Isle City, N. J. 



William J. Fox. Trumpet fish (Fistularia) from Anglesea, N. J. 



W. T. Innes. Small bottle of fishes, Cuba. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 715 



Leland Stanford Junior University. Collection of cotypes of fishes. 

 Western North America. 



David McCadden. Two file fishes {Stephayiolepis hispidus), Ocean City, 

 N. J. Hake (Phycis regius), Ocean City, N. J. 



H. L. Mather, Jr., and H. W. Fowler. Four jars of fresh-water fishes, 

 York County, Pa. 



W. E. Meehan. Gar (Lepisosteus osseus), Maryland. Calico bass (Poinoxis), 

 Philadelphia Aquarium. 



F. J. Myers. Spawning sculpins (Cottus gracilis), Bethlehem, Pa. 



F. J. Myers and H. W. Fowler. Five jars of fresh-water fishes, mountains 

 of Pennsylvania, in Monroe County. 



R. F. Miller. Small fish, Philadelphia. 



Henry A. Pilsbry. Four fishes, Hawaiian Islands. 



Edgar A. Smith. Two jars of fishes, Rio Madeira, Brazil. 



F. L. Tappan. Small collection of fishes, Minnesota. 



Mrs. Pendleton G. Watmough. Lamprey. 



R. W. Wehrle. Three lots of fishes, including two larval lampreys, Indiana, 

 Pa. 



H. T. Wolf. Seahorse {Hippocampus), Florida. 



Purchased. Collection of West African fresh-water fishes. 



Recent Mollusca. 



Jacob Aebly. Limax flaims from Philadelphia, Pa., and a pearl from an 

 oyster. 



John A. Allen. Ten species of land and fresh-water shells from Oregon 

 Connecticut, and Ohio. 



C. A. Baker. Praticolella from Zellwood, Fla. 



Dr. Fred Baker. Eighty-three trays of shells from California and Brazil. 



F. C. Baker. Pyramidula occidentalis Marts, from Idaho. 



F. H. Baker. Two marine shells from Australia. 



M. J. Becker. Cavolinia pacifica Dall from Pacific Grove, California. 



S. S. Berry. Two species of Succinea from Winnecook, Montana. 



Dr. a. p. Brown. Forty-four trays of land and fresh-water shells from Antigua. 



H. H. Burton. Lynmcea paluslris from Ontario, Canada. 



G. H. Clapp. Cotypes of Carychium nanum CI. from Alabama. 



A. M. Collins and E. M. Scull. Six trays of land and marine shells from 

 East Africa. 



Richard A. Cooke. Four trays of land shells from Oahu. 



David L. Crawford. Thirty-three trays of land and fresh-water shells 

 from Mexico. 



Delos E. Culver. Polygyra thyroides Say and Pyramidula alternata Say 

 from Whites Island, Bucks County, Pa. 



L. E. Daniels. One hundred and thirty-three trays of land shells from 

 Montana. 



Mrs. E. D. Douglas. Fifteen species of marine shells. 



H. Edson. Cotype of Sonorella argus Ed. from Inyo County, California. 



J. S. Emerson. Clausilia emersoni from Malta and Philonesia from Micro- 



J. H. Ferriss. Sixty-eight trays of land and fresh-water shells from Arizona 

 and Texas. 




716 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



W. R. Forrest. Twenty trays of land shells from Barbuda and Antigua 

 (presented through Dr. A. P. Brown). 



H. W. Fowler. Nassa obsoleta Say from Cape Henlopen, Delaware. 



L. S. Frierson. Quadrula apiculata Say var. from San Jacinto River, Texas. 



Dr. J.'W. Harshberger. Five trays of land and marine shells from Florida. 



M. Heb.\rd and J. Rehn. Thirty-two trays of land shells from the Southern 

 States. 



J. B. Henderson. Twenty-three trays of Urocoptis from Cuba. 



Junius Henderson. Ten trays of land and fresh-water shells from Colorado. 



A. L. Hettrich. Dentalimn vulgare Da C. 



A. A. HiNKLEY. One hundred and fifty-three trays of shells from Mexico 

 and Guatemala. (Purchased.) 



F. J. Keeley. Polygyra tridentata Say from Graters Ford, Pa. 



Mrs. a. F. Kenyon. Thirty-one trays of marine shells from Victoria, 

 Australia. 



Bayard Long. Twenty-seven trays of shells from the eastern United States. 



H. X. Lowe. Two species of Micrarionta from Lower California and Cerros 

 • Island . 



J. G. Malone. Seven trays of marine shells from Oregon. 



T. H. May. Cyproea xanthodon from Bundaberg, Australia. 



William G. Mazyck. Five trays of land and fresh-water shells from Charles- 

 ton, S. C. 



R. A. McConnell and D. L. Crawford. Eighteen trays of land and fresh- 

 water shells from Guadalajara, Mexico. (Purchased.) 



Dr. H. E. and G. W. H. Meyer. Fovxr marine shells. 



Clarence B. Moore. Fourteen trays of shells from Arkansas, Louisiana, 

 and Florida. 



C. R. Orcutt. Modiolus and Pomatiopsis from Manzanillo, Mexico. 



W. H. Over. Fifty-five trays of land and fresh-water shells from South 

 Dakota. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. Five hundred and thirty-six trays of shells from the Hawaiian 

 Islands; also seventeen trays of shells from California and Cuba. 



C. T. Ramsden. Twenty-two trays of land shells from Cuba. 

 J. A. G. Rehn. Gaslrodonta intertexla Say. 



S. N. Rhoads. Two hundred and ten trays of marine shells from Panama. 

 (Purchased.) 



S. Raymond Roberts. Thirty-four trays of marine shells from Australia 

 and Japan. 



F. A. Sampson. Polygyra claiisa Say and one Campeloma from Dent County, 

 Missouri. 



Prof. B. Shimek. Succinea loitteri Shimek from Coralville, Iowa. 



E. R. Sims. Oliva scripta Lam. from Santiago de Cuba. 



Irwin Spalding. One hundred and one trays of Hawaiian land shells. 



George C. Spence. Twelve species of land shells from England. 



J. B. Steere. Nenia steeriana Sykes from Plains of Cajamarco, Peru. 



WiTMER Stone. Polygyra fraterna Say and one Sphoerium from Lopez, Pa. 



D. Thaanum. Three hundred and forty-eight trays of Hawaiian shells. 

 Hon. L. a. Thurston. Cotypes of Achatinella thurstoni from Oahu, H. I. 

 Mrs, T. V. E. Titus. Striatura ferrea Mse. from nineteen miles south of 



St. Fabien, Canada. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 717 



Dr. Henry Tucker. Limax maximns L. from Morton, Pa. 



University of Wisconsin. Three trays of Hawaiian land shells. 



E. G. Vanatta. Polygyra appressa Say from the. banks of the Chester River, 

 Queen Anne County, Maryland. 



T. Van Hyning. Eleven trays of land and fresh-water shells from Georgia 

 and Iowa. 



Gilbert Van Ingen. Helix hortensis Miill. from Conception Bay, New- 

 foundland. 



Bryant Walker. Sixteen trays of land and fresh-water shells. 



W. F. Webb. Dryniceus inusitatus Fult., Chiriqui Lagoon, Panama. 



W. D. Wilder. Six trays of Hawaiian land shells. 



Helen Winchester. Polygyra albolnbris Say from Canadensis, Pa. 



Unknown. Twelve trays of Scaphopoda from Australia. 



Purchased. Two hundred and thirty-six lots of land and marine shells. 



Insects. 



J. Aebly. Five insects, Philadelphia. 



B. Albertson. Fly, Massachusetts. 



C. R. Alexander. Forty-one Tipulida;, United States. 

 W. Beutenmuller. Seven insects, United States. 

 Annette F. Braun. I'ourteen butterflies, United States. 

 Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences. Three Orthoptera. 

 Stewardson Brown. Two Coleoptera, Philadelphia; Orthopteron, Bermuda. 

 P. P. Calvert. Nine insects, Scotland and Pennsylvania. 



E. R. Casey. Three insects, Philadelphia. 



T. D. A. CocKERELL. Twenty-two bees, two Phenacoledes (fossil). 



W. P. CoMSTOCK. Two Theda immaculosis. Utah (paratypes). 



C. W. GoLE, Jr. Five hundred and sixty-six insects, Alberta and British 

 Columbia, Canada. 



E. T. Cresson, Jr. Thirty-six insects, Pennsylvania. 



Delos E. Culver. Odonate, Philadelphia. 



J. H. Ferris. Beetle, Arizona. 



Henry Fox. Three thousand five hundred Orthoptera, Pennsylvania, New 

 Jersey, and Massachusetts. 



W. J. Fox. Beetle, Philadelphia. 



H. W. Fowler. Six Coleoptera, Pennsylvania. 



C. W. Frost. Five insects, Pennsylvania. 



G. M. Greene. Twenty-five insects, United States; four Coleoptera, exotic. 



J. P. C. Griffith. Phyllium, Pharnacia, Ceylon. 



H. S. Harbeck. One Blattid. 



Dr. J. W. Harshberger. Moth, Florida. 



Morgan Hebard. Sixty-four Insara, United States, Mexico, Central America; 

 one hundred and seven Dichopetala, Mexico and Texas; one hundred and forty- 

 one Orthoptera, United States and Mexico; sixty-nine Orthoptera, Arizona; 

 Texas, Florida; forty-seven insects. United States; one hundred and fourteen 

 Coleoptera, Georgia; eighty-five Odonata, Michigan; two hundred and sixty-four 

 Lepidoptera, Florida; one hundred and thirty-six insects. United States; one 

 thousand six hundred and thirteen Lepidoptera, American and exotic. 




718 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Hebard-Academy Expeditions of 1909, 1910, 1912 and 1913. About 19,000 

 specimens of Orthoptera, southern and western United States. 



A. D. Hopkins. Five Dendrodonus, United States. 



Herman Hornig. Seventy-one insects, Philadelphia. 



P. Jorgensen. One hundred and fifty-four Orthoptera, Argentina. 



Bayard Long. Three hundred Orthoptera, Canada; one hundred and 

 forty-one insects, Prince Edwards Island; twenty-five butterflies, Pennsylvania; 

 nine Orthoptera, New Jersey. 



Philip Laurent. Two moths and larvae. 



Carlos Lizer. Twenty-three Orthoptera, Argentina. 



Charles Liebeck. Six earwigs, Canada. 



W. M. Mann. Six Orthoptera, United States. 



William Moore. Seventy-seven Orthoptera, Transvaal. 



Museum of Compar.'VTIVe Zoology. Nine Dichopelala, Mexico. 



EsBiA PiTUSEN. Thirty-two Orthoptera, Argentina. 



C. T. Ramsden. Six Butterflies and three Orthoptera, Cuba. 



F. W. R.AWLE, Jr. Moth, England. 



J. A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard. Four Plusiotis, Texas. 



C. Schrottky. Twenty-five Orthoptera, Paraguay. 



Henry Skinner. One hundred and thirty-seven insects, White Mountains, 

 New Hampshire; two moths, Pennsylvania; thirteen butterflies, Alaska and 

 California. 



Witmer Stone. Two hundred and twenty-four Orthoptera, Maryland, 

 Minnesota, Wisconsin. 



United States National Museum. Two Dichopelala, Texas. 



E. G. Vanatta. Two hundred and sixty insects. New Jersey, Mar3dand, 

 Pennsylvania. 



H. W. Wenzel. Fourteen Coleoptera, Pennsylvania; Orthopteron, New 

 Jersey. 



L. H. Wild. Thirty-eight Hymenoptera, Washington. 



E,. C. W^iLLiAMS. Sixteen Pamphila, New Mexico. 



E. B. Williamson. Three moths, Indiana; twelve Orthoptera, Ontario. 



Purchased. Six hundred Coleoptera, British Guiana; six Ornithoptera, 

 exotic; five hundred and ninety-eight Orthoptera, exotic; six hundred and 

 seventy Orthoptera, Trinidad; eight hundred and thirty-seven Orthoptera, 

 British Guiana; Collection of insects from Ecuador (S. N. Rhoads). 



Other Invertebrates. 



August and Karl Behr. Jar of crayfish, Jennings, Md. 

 Dr. Amos P. Brown. Tray of Cypris, Antigua. 



D. E. Culver. Small collection of arachnida, Delaware County, Pa. Three 

 starfish, Old Point Comfort, Va. 



Mrs. E. D. Douglass. Mellita lesludinala, Wildwood, N. J. 



H. W. Fowler. Several jars of crustaceans, Delaware; Balanus from High- 

 land Beach, N. J. 



W. J. Fox. Vial of copepods from shark. Sea Isle Citj', N. J. Holothurian 

 (Thyone), Townsend's Inlet, N. J. 



D. McCadden. Lernean parasite. Ocean City, N. J. Prawn {Penceus), 

 Ocean City, N. J. 




1913.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 719 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Crayfish {Catnbarus hartonii), Cobb's Creek, N. J. 



Mrs. T. H. Montgomery. The T. H. Montgomery Collection of North 

 American Spiders. 



Henry A. Pilsbry. Twenty-three species of invertebrates, Hawaiian Islands. 



Provident Life and Trust Co. Centipede {Scolopendra subspinipes), cap- 

 tured in basement. 



E. G. Vanatta. Vial of Scolopendra, Philadelphia. Vial of Porcellio, Haddon 

 Heights, N. J. 



R. W. Wehrle. Collection of crustaceans, Indiana, Pa. 



Fossil Invertebrates. 



Morgan Hebard and .J. A. G. Rehn. Gryphoea from Weatherford, Texas. 

 Dr. a. p. Brown. One hundred and thirty-seven trays of Oligocene fossils 

 from Antigua and Panama. 



Dr. W. H. Dall. Ten trays of Pliocene fossils from Panama and Costa Rica. 



Recent Plants. 



Charles F. Batchelder. Three hundred New England plants. 



Bermuda Expedition. Numerous cultivated species. 



J. Chester Bradley. Four specimens, Billy's Island, Ga. 



Dr. C. D. Fretz. Four thousand nine hundred and eightj'-two plants, 

 mainly from Pennsylvania, but also from California, Florida, and North Carolina. 



Mrs. Joseph M. Fox. Four specimens from South Carolina. 



Gray Herbarium. One hundred and twelve Juncus, eastern United States 

 and Canada. 



Dr. J. W. Harshberger. One hundred and seventy-five plants from Florida, 

 etc. 



Bayard Long. One himdred and ninety-five plants from Bailey's Island, 

 Me., and Pocono Plateau, Pa. 



Henry A. Lang. Forty-seven plants from Jamaica and four from New 

 Hampshire. 



New York Botanic Garden. Ninety-one sheets from Cuba. 



Philadelphia Botanical Club. Three thousand three hundred and forty- 

 one sheets. 



Harold W. Pretz. Twenty-three Pennsylvania and New Jersey plants. 



Harold St. John. Twenty-seven sheets of New England plants. 



Trenton Museum (exchange). One thousand eight hundred plants from 

 United States and Canada. 



Miss Watson. Collection of Darjiling P>rns. 



Charles S. Williamson. Six hundred and seventy plants from Lake Superior, 

 etc. 



University of Pennsylvania. Sixty-six sheets of Gerardia. 



Fossil Plants. 



Empire Co.\l Mining Co. Slab of plant impressions in coal slate. 

 W. H. Wehrle. R. W. Collection of fossil plant fragments. 



Ethnology and Archeology. 



Edw. K. Bispham. Gorget, Philadelphia. 



Mrs. E. D. Douglass. String of shell beads; Pacific Islands. 




720 ■ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Wallace Early. Malay kris, probably from Philippine Islands. 



Charles Morris. Stone pestle and two grooved axe-heads, Mantua Farm, 

 collected in 1810. 



Clarence B. Moore. Specimens of pottery, etc., from Indian mounds of the 

 Southern States, added to the Clarence B. Moore Collection. 



Dr. Ludwig Pfeiffer. Six blocks of calcareous tufa, five worked flints, 

 six specimens representing Rhinoceros and Equus. PateoHthic beds at Taubach 

 Ehringsdorf, Weimar, Germany. 



Dr. N. W. Thoma.s. Two whale harpoons. 



Miss H. N. Wardle. Lock of hair from a Tsantsa, Ecuador. 



Minerals. 

 Twenty-two specimens pm-cha.sed for the William .S. Vaux Collection. 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



'21 



INDEX TO GENERA, SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND 

 REFERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1913. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced, synonyms by 

 italic numerals. 



Abra lequalis 497 



Abraeris nebulosa 339 



signatipes 339 



Ace^tra gladius 576 



oxyrhynchus .., 576 



Achatina concentrica 645 



gundlachi 646 



lamellata 645 



pulchella 639 



Acheta exigua 406, 417, 479 



hospes 405,417 



servilis 405, AM 



sylvestris 395 



vittata.. 405, 406, 417 



Achirus fasciatus 65 



Acipenser sturio 62 



Acmsea punctulata '496 



Acontista bimaculata 284 



Acornus 48 



Acridida; 304 



Acridinse 83 



Acridium cruentatum 334 



electum 334 



omnicolor 334 



paranense 112,340 



peregrinum 112 



Acris 161 



Acrocinus longimanus 685 



Acrorchilus alopecias 202 



Acrosoma 12-spinosa 679 



insequalis 679 



Aery diina; 82 



Aerydium latreillei 88 



punctatum 316 



Actinocyclus barkleyi aggrega- 



tus .582 



Actitis maeularia 192 



Adeorbis beaui 27 



Admestina ! 187 



iEquidens geayi 579 



madeirse 576 



rivulatus 579 



tetramerus 579 



Agaricia agarieites 497 



Agathemera millepunctata 300 



Agelsena sp 67S 



Agelaius icterocephalus 211 



Agelena hentzi 182 



naevia 182 



pennsylvanica 183 



Agrsecia maeulata 375 



Agrioenemis 221 



Agriolestes 257 



Agrion eiehstattense 247 



Aidemona 112 



azteca 112 



Ajaia ajaja 193 



Alaba tervarieosa 495 



Alabina cerithioides 495 



Alcedinidaj 197 



Alcedo amazona 197 



americana 197 



inda 197 



torquata 197 



Alenas brachypterus 338 



gracilis 338 



lincatus 338 



vitticoUis 338 



Algansea ant ica 69, ^.9 



formosa 70, 70, 71 



AUodape 29 



Allolestes 259, 262 



Allonemobius, 399, 402, 405, 430, 434. 



444, 446 



Allopodagrion, 234, 236, 237, 251, 258. 



262, 263 



nebulosum 250 



Alosa sapidissima 62 



Alveopora daedala 593, 599 



fenestrata 599 



microscopica 599 



minor 593 



regularis 593,599 



Amaura olivacea 365 



spinata 365 



Amaurobius pictus 181 



severus 181 



nevadensis 181 



Amazona amazonica 197 



ochrocephala 197 




'22 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Anohs n. bondi 171 



Anomalocardia cuneimeris 497 



flexuosa 608 



Anostoma 622, 688-891 



depressum 620, 643, 644, 689 



octodentatum 620, 644, 689 



ringens 690 



Anthoglossa 28 



Anthophora 29 



pulchra 44 



rhodoscymna 44 



Anthoscenus superba 202 



Anthracothorax gramineus 201 



nigricoUis 201 



Anthus lutescens 208 



Antiphanes 101 



nodicollis 102 



Anypha^na furcatella 677 



pretiosa 677 



Aphyocharacina; 527 



Aphyocharax avary 533 



eques 534 



Aplodinotus 45 



grunniens 45 



Apotettix bruneri 304 



Ara araraima 196 



Araniidcs cajanea 191 



Arut intra aTUjiinosus 196 



l("uc(jphthalmus 196 



Area adamsi 496 



antiquata 496 



campeachiensis 496 



chemnitzii 608 



'deshayesi. 496 



imbricata 496 



occidentalis 496 



reticulata 496 



umbonata 496 



Archecheir 518 



Archilestes 246 



Archimandrita marmorata 684 



Arctosa cinerea 182 



Ardea cocoi 193 



helias 193 



Hneata 193 



striata 193 



violacea 193 



Ardeida; 193 



Argiolestes 235, 243, 260, 261, 263 



icteromelas 234, 243, 249, 250 



postnodalis 261 



Argiope argentata 679 



Argizala... 39/^, 399, 403, 404, 445 



brasiliensis 445, 446 



Argonauta 74 



Argyrtria chionopectus 201 



fimbriata 201 



Arionta veatchii 384 



Arundinicola leucocephala 203 



Ascaris mystax 148 



Asiphonichthys 561 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



723 




724 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Caletodes alatus 98 



fest£e 98 



pulchripes 98 



Callinectes sapidus 64 



Callinsaria 361 



clupeipennis 362 



Calliophis japonious 508, 509 



macclellandii 508,512 



swinhoei 508, 512, 513 



Calliste desmarestii 210 



Calliteuthis 76 



asteroessa 75 



(Meleagroteuthis) heteropsis .. 75 



Callithera aulica 187 



Callomelitta 28, 32 



picta 32 



Callophis boettgeri 508, 511 



Calopteryx 255 



Calyptroea candeana 495 



Campephilus melanoleucos 200 



Campylopterus ensipennis 200 



Campylorhynchus nuchalis 206 



Canestrinia blattophaga 684 



Canuleius inermis 300 



Caprimulgidae 198 



Caprimulgus acutipennis 198 



albiooUis 198 ' 



leuoopygus ; 198 [ 



Cardium medium 496 j 



muricatum 496, 608 I 



serratum 496 



Carpiodes 45 



carpio 46 



cutisanserinus 46, 47 



cyprinus 46 



difformis 46, 47 



elongatiis 47 



grayi 47 



nummifer 4^,46 



selene 47 



thompsoni 46, 47 



tumidus 46 , 



velifer 47 ; 



Castalia 623 



ambigua 620,664 



quadrilatera &1Q,664 



Castianeira bicalcarata 181 



Cathartidse 194 



Catostomus 48 



alticolus .52 



ardens 52 



catostomus 51 



chloropteron 55 



commersonnii 52 



c. sucklii 52 



cypho 55 



cyprinus 45 



fecundus 53 



gila 52 



humboldtianus -^5,48 



insignis 53 



Catostomus labiatus JfS, 48, 4^, 51 



I latipinnis 48 



i nigricans 53, 56- 



occidentalis 48, 51 



o. humboldtianus 48 



o. lacus-anserinus Jf9 



plebeius 47 



retropinnis 48 



snyderi .. 51 



tahoensis. 52' 



teres 55 



texanus -54, 55 



tsiltcoosensis .48 



warnerensis 51 



Caulopsis gracilis 374 



Celaenopsis angustus 686 



[ Celeus elegans hellmayri 200 



I Centrurus bicolor 684 



margaritatus 684 



Centurus terricolor 200 



Ceophloeus lineatus 200 



Cephalocoema costulata 307 



lineata 307 



Cepolis (Hemitrochus) graminicola 6 



Ceraia cornutoides 365 



Ceratistus 301, 302 



j Ceratura 221 



Cercopithecus mona 147 



j potas 147 



sabseus 147 



Cerion 381 



Cerithidea varicosa 495, 497 



Cerithiopsis sp 495 



Cerithium algicola 495 



literatum 495 



medium 495 



variabile 495 



Ceroys coronatus 300' 



similis 300' 



Certhia caeruleus 210 



cinnamomea 203' 



Certhiola luteola '... 209 



Ceryle amazona 197 



americana 190, 197 



inda 197 



torquata 197 



Chsemepelia rufipennis 191 



Chaetsessa burmeisteri 28/i. 



Chalcinse ■... 560 



Chalcinus angulatus 560 



Chalcopteryx 246, 247 



Chama sp 496 



Chara 598 



Characidse 517 



Characinae 561, 563 



Charadriidae 192 



Charax goeldii 568 



sardina 566, 571 



Chasmistes 53 



brevirostris 53 



chamberlaini 54 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



725 



Chasmistes cujus ^^'^A 



liorus ^'^ 



luxatus '^1 



stomias ^^ 



Chelanops nodulimanus 683 



uniformis 683 



Chelifer canestrinii 684 



Chelydra serpentina 62 



Chemmis frederici 67/ 



Colonia radiata '— "^ 



Colopteryx galeatus _ 205 



Coluber corais I'l. I'-' 



Colubridse ^^^' ^m 



Columba rufina 191 



Columbella mercatoria 495 



Columbidae 191 



Columbina rufipennis 191 



Compsothylypis pitiayumi ele- 



punctigera. 



677 



210 

 198 



peruviana, 

 stolli 



Chione cancellata 497, 608 



Chiroxiphia lanceolata 190, 206 



Chlocaltis conspersa 314 



Chlorestes notatus 202 



Chloridella empusa 64 



Chlorolestes, 221, 222, 244, 26U, 262^ 



fasciata 221,222,244 



longicauda 221, 223 



Chlorophanes spiza 



Chordeiles acutipennis 



Chromacris ^^ 



miles 33- 



3.32, 333 

 62 



200 



300 

 202 



576 

 181 

 ISO 

 180 

 180 

 180 

 180 

 180 



Circus buffoni IQ'l 



Cistula antiguensis 609 



Cladocerapis 28 



Cladocora orbuscula 497 



Clathurella jowettii 494 



Clubiona tigrina 677 



Clypeaster aiitillarum 601 



Chrvsemys picta .■• 



Chrysoptilus punctigula puncti- 

 pectus 



punctipectus 



Chrysuronia ocnone 



Cichlidse 



Cicurina arcuata. 



atomaria 



ludovicina. 



nevadensis 



robusta 



simplex 



gans 



.190, 208 

 497 

 375 

 375 

 375 

 374 

 375 

 494 



Congeria (Mytilop.5is) cochleata 



Conocephalus infuscatus 



longipes 



macropteras 



muticus 



satiu-atus 



Conus proteus 



Copiocera 9^ 



lepida..... 94 



specularis.... 94 



Surinam ensis... "* 



Coptopteryx ^ _ 285 



argentma -,. ^^^. _ 



claraziana 285, 286, 28/ 



constricta 285,286,291 



crenaticoUis 285-28/ 



gavi 285, 286, 288, 288-291 



thoracica 285,286,288 



Corallus cookii 171 



Corbula equivalvis 49/^ 



swiftiana 49/ 



Coriarachne versicolor 183 



Corinna amoena... 183 



bivittata 183 



cingulata 183 



ornata Ig 



tricolor i»3 



^°™"" :62i,6ao 



.621,640 

 330 



^ 600 



Cnemidophorus lemniscatus 173 



Cobanus mandibularis 680 



Coccyzus pumilus 198 



Cochlogena maxima 634 



Codakia antillarum 496 



orbicularis 608 



orbiculata 496,608 



-Coelioxys ■ •■ 29 



•Coeloptema ^^'^ 



Ccelotes bimucronatus 180 



Coelurichthys 535 



Ccereba luteola 209 



Coerebidae 209 



Colibri delphinse 201 



Colomesus psittacus 5/9 



205 

 64 



203 



regma •■ • 



Coryacris angustipennis 



diversipes 



Cotingidse 



Crago septemspinosus 



Craspedoprion olivaceus guianen- 



sis 



Crassinella guadalupensis 49b 



Crax alector 190 



Creagrutus affinis ■■■-■ 555 



anary ^®"' ^^^ 



brevipinnis 555 



magdalenae 555 



Crepidula convexa 495 



plana 495 



Crocisa 29 



pantalon 29 



Crocodilidse 1^3 



Crocomorphus semicinnamomeus.. 200 



Crotalidffi 169 



Crotophaga ani 198 



major 



198 




726 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Cryphoeca peckhami 180 



Crypturus boucardi 190 



columbianus 190, 190 



Ctenobrycon alleni 540 



rhabdops 537 



Ctenosaura acanthura 173 



Ctenus sp 680 



Cuculidae 198 



Cupiennius coccineus 679 



griseus 679 



Curimata spilura 673 



Curimatinse 517 



Curimatus cyprinoides 517 



dorsalis 675 



spilurus 673 



stigmaturus 673, 675 



tigris 518 



vittatus 520 



Cuspidaria (Cardiomya) cos- 



tellata '. 496 



Cyanerpes caeruleus 210 



cyaneus 209 



Cyanocephalus porcarius 147 



sphinx 147 



Cybseus morosus 180 



pusillus 180 



reticulatus 180 



Cycleptus elongatus 45 



Cyclorhis flavipectus 207 



gujanensis flavipectus 207 



Cylichnella bidentata 494 



Cymatium tuberosum 495 



vespaceum 495 



Cymbella 581 



Cynorta albomaculata 681 



biguttata 681 



conspersa 682 



flavornata 681,682 



longispina 68 1 



oculata 681 



Cynoscion nebulosus 64 



regalis 64 



Cyprinodon variegatus 63 



Cyrena (Polymesoda) acuta 497 



Cyrtocharax 568 



Cyrtoxyphus variegatus... .4-3^, 455, 480 



Cysticercus tenuicollis 149 



Cystignathidffi 161 



Cythara balteata 494 



biconica 494 



Dacnis cayana 209 



Dasyscelis dilatatus 372 



normalis 371 



Deltistes 54 



luxatus 53, 54 



Dendrobates trivittatus 164 



Dendrobatidae 164 



Dendrocincla meruloides phaeo- 



chroa 190,203 



phffiochroa 203 



Dendrocolaptidae 



Dendroica a^stiva 



Dendroplex albolineatus 



picirostris 



Dendryphantes aestivalis 



maxillosus 



militaris 



octavus 



Dentalium callithrix 



Dermatocheir 



Dianthidium 



Diatrypa tuberculata 



Dichroplus 



amoenus 



bergii 



I brasiliensis 



I con^persus 



I dubius 



I elongatus. 



! olivaceus 



peruvianus 



pratensis 



punctulatus 



' robustulus 



vittatus 



Diedronotus 



angulat us 



discoideus 



Isevipes 



rosulentus 



Dimeragrion, 238, 254, 259, 262, 



percubitale 238, 239, 250, 



Diplodon 



kelseyi 621, 



obsolescens 621, 



Diplodonta mediamericana 496, 



nucleiformis 



puncturella 



soror 



Diplothecanthus antillarum 



concavus 600, 



Diponthus argentinus 



crassus 



electus 



festivus 



paraguayensis 



Dipsadidse 



Dipsadomorphinse 



Discopsis costulatum .r 



omalos 



schumoi 



Dolichocerus bicornis 



Donacobius atricapillus 



Doryssa 622, 



aquatilis 



buUata 621,648, 



cachoeirae 621, 



c. sulcata 621, 



consolidata 



devians 



202 

 208. 

 203 

 203 

 186 

 680' 

 186 

 186 

 496 

 518 



29 

 379 

 113 

 113 

 345 

 345 

 344 

 344 

 341 

 3JfO- 

 113 

 341 

 343 

 345 

 344 



88 

 330 

 330 

 330 



88 

 263, 

 265 

 ,265 

 622 



499 



499 



499 



496 



601 



601 



336 



335 



334 



335 



335 



80 



78 



25 



25 



24 



141 



207 



648 



648 



651 



650' 




1913.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



727' 



Doryssa globosa 621, 651, 654 



heathi 621, 653, 655 



hohenackeri 656 



iheringi 621,654 



inconspicua 621, 650, 657 



lumbricus 648 



macapa 648, 650, 651 



pernambucensis 653 



rex 621,650 



r. regina 621, 651 



r'x3sa 654 



starksi 621,652 



transversa 648, 649, 651, 657 



t. jaryensis 621, 649 



t. tapajosensis 621, 649 



tuc unareensis 62 1 , 656 



Drepanodon 505, 507 



anomalus 505 



eatoni 506 



erdisii 506 



Drillia harfordiana var. colonen- 



sis 494,498 



h. var. flucki 498 



leucocyma 494 



ostrearum 494 



Drymaeus 622 



branneri 621, 637 



elongatus 608,609 



eximnsus 62 1 , 637 



hidalgoi 639 



linostoma 638 



1. suprapunctatus 621, 638, 639 



similaris 638 



strigatus 638 



subsimilaris '. 638 



Drymobius boddsertii 168, 171 



dendrophis 168 



Dynastes hercvdes 686 



Dysagrion, 220, 230, 231, 246, 251, 252, 

 257, 261, 262 



fredericii 220,231 



packardii 231,250 



Ebo oblonga 179 



Echinanthus antillarum 600, 601 



concavus 600, 600 



Echinolampas anguillse 601 



Edricus crassicauda 678 



tricuspis 678 



Ela^nea flavogaster 204 



gaimardii 204 



g. guianensis 204 



sp , 203 



Eteochlora angustipennis 330 



viridicata 331 



Elainopsis 204 



Elanus leucurus 196 



Elapin* 168 



Elaps 514 



fraseri 168 



fulvius 173 



Elaps heterochilus 508, 514 



spixii 508,514 



Emberiza militaris 211 



Emyglossa tenuicornis 34 



Engina turbinella 495 



Engystomatidse 164, 173 



Entodina 622 



jekylli 621,630 



reyrei 631 



Eomorphopus 82 



granulatus 82 



Epallage 246 



Epeira hispida 184 



ravilla 184 



Epeolus 29 



Epilampra caizana 279 



stigmatiphora 279 



testacea 279 



verticalis 28 1 



Ep iphr agmophor a ar eolata S90 



pandorse 382 



p. bonitosensis 35^,384 



Eremarionta 382 



Erimyzon sucetta 55 



s. oblongus 56 



Eris aurigera 186 



Eritettix 315 



Erpetodryas fuscus 168 



sexcarinatus 171 



Erythrolamprina; .78,80 



Erythrolamprus 80 



sesculapii., 78 



Erythroxyrhopus 80 



Etropus microstomus 65 



Euglandina 623 



n. sp 627 



striata 621,627 



Eulima bifasciata 495 



Eumastacinse 82 



Eunemobius, 400, 403, 467, 468, 473, 

 475, 489 



Euophrys amabilis 186 



humilis 186 



leucophsea 186 



obf uscata 187 



Eupagurus longicarpus 64 



Euparypha 381 



Eupatagus 601 



Eupera 622 



sp 621,663 



Euphffia _. 246 



longiventris 252 



Euphseopsis 248,252-254 



multinervis 246, 250, 251 



Euphonia trinitatis 210 



Euplectrotettix conspersus .319, 320 



prasinus 319,320 



schulzi 319,320 



Euprosopis 28 



elegans 43- 



e. var. sydneyana 43. 




■28 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Euprosopis nodosicornis 43 



Euryglossa 29, 34, 35 



aurantifera 33 



carnosa 33 



depressa 33 , 34 



frenchii 36 



geminata 33 



haematura 36 



leptospermi 36 



neglectula 37 



nigrocaerulea 33, 34 



ruberrima 36 



rubricata 36 



salaris 36 



schomburgki 34 



sinapina 35 



sinapipes 35 



sanguinosa 35 



subsericea 33, 34 



terminata 36 



Euryglossella 29 



Eurvglos.-i<li,i 29 



Eviryglossma 28, 29 



sulphurella .28 



Eurypyga helias 193 



Eurypygidff 193 



Eurystomus 48 



Eutryxalis gracilis 313 



Exoneura ;. 29 



angophora' . .29, 30, 32 



a.var.haekcn 29,32 



a. var. oblitenita 29,32 



bicolor 30,31,32 



concinnula 31, 32 



froggattii 30,31,32 



fultoni 31,32 



hackeri 30 



hamulata 30, 32 



Exoneuridia libanensis 29 



Falco aequinoctialis .. 195 



albicoUis . 195 



anthracinus 195 



buffoni 194 



cachinnaus 195 



columbarius 196 



magnii-ostris 195 



nigricoUis 195 



nitida 19/^ 



uncinatus 196 



urubitinga 195 



Falconidse 194 



Farlowella gladius 576 



nattereri 576 



oxyrhynchus 576 



smithi 575 



Fasciola hepaticum 138 



Fasciolaria sp : 495 



Favia fragum 497 



Felis rufus 148 



Fenestra 83 



Fenestra bohlsii 



ensicorne 



P'ilaria , 



fasciata 



striata 



Fissuridea alternata . 



barbadensis 



Florisuga mellivora 



Fluvicola pica 



Formicariidse 



Formicivora intermedia 



Fringilla manimbe 



splendens 



Fringillidaj 



Fulica cajanea 



Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepi- 

 dotus 



\\XC\Si 



majalis 



Gafrarium (Gouldia; cerina 



Galbula ruficauda 



Galbulida; 



Gallinago brasiliensis 



paraguaise 



Gasteracantha kochi 



pallida 



(lasteropelecina; 



Gasteropelecus securis.. 



S3, 84, 317 



126 

 140 



141 

 496 

 608 

 201 

 203 

 202 



208 

 191 



63 

 63 

 62 



496 

 199 

 199 

 192 

 192 

 679 

 184 

 560 

 560 



stellatus 560 



Gasterosteus aculeatus 63 



Gastropsis 29 



Geck()ni(hf 169 



Gemph(>ii('nia 581 



Geothlypis ajquinoctialis 208 



Geranospizias cajrulescens 194 



Glabaris ensiformis 667 



Glauconia albifrons... 173 



Glauconida; 173 



Glaucis hirsuta 200 



Glenognatha emertoni 180 



Gnathocharax 560 



steindachneri 560, 561 



Gnathoprosopis 28, 38 



Gomphocerus (Sinipta) dalmani ... 315 



(Hyalopteryx) paganus 313 



Gonatodes caudiscutatus 169 



Gonatus fabricii 76, 76, 77 



magister 76 



Goniocolletes 28 



Grammadera albida 371 



GryUidae 376 



Gryllus aegyptius 110 



argentinus 377 



brevicornis 313 



fasciatus ....405, Jfi5, U6, 476 



frenatus 92 



hospes Jfi5 



(Locusta) miles 332 



niger 366 



perspicillatus 102 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



729 



GrylJus (Mantis) precarius 299 



(Nemobius) pulicarius 399 



(Nemobius) pumilus 399 



punctulatus 343 



(Bulla) serratus 330 



violaceus 353 



Guara rubra 193 



Gundlachia 622, 668, 669, 670 



bakeri 621, 663, 670, 671 



textilina 671 



Guppya 622 



mayi....... 621,632 



seminlini 632 



Gymnocera elegans 366 



Gymnomystax mexicanus 211 



Habrocestum pulex 187 



Halictus 29 



leai 32 



Haminea antillarum 494 



canalis 494 



Haplocochlias cvclophorous 24 



swifti ". 23 



Happia 623 



snethlagei 621,629 



Hebetancylus 671 



Heleodytes minor 206 



nuchalis 206 



Helicina 623 



aureola 7 



(Lucidella) aureola 10 



bourguignatiana 626 



crosbyi 609,612 



guajarana 621,626 



laterculus 626 



lirifera 621,626 



neritella angulata 612 



schereri 621,625 



Helicops angulatus 171 



Helix areolata 380, 384, 390, 391 



aureola 3, 7, 7, 10 



canescens 386, 387 



cseca 63B 



cantagallana 634 



damascenus 382 



decorata 392 



deformis 627 



kellettii 383 



levis 380, 387, 388, 389, 391 



oblonga 634 



pandoriE 382, 383 



pintadina 635 



pisana 392 



(Bulimus) pubescens 



(Cochlitoma) regina 



rugifera 



selenostoma 



striata 



sultana 



tenuissima...: 



tryoni 



48 



640 

 633 

 633 

 627 

 640 

 635 

 383 



Helix veatchii 384 



Hemigrammus melanochrous 543 



ocellifer 545 



schmardse 545 



Hemiphlebia 221 



Hemisinus 622 



bieinctus 657 



brasiliensis 621,657 



flammeus 621,657 



f. elongatus 621, 657 



venezuelensis 657 



zebra 657 



Hemitrochus 381 



Henia 92 



boliviana 92 



Hernandria ventralis 680 



Herpetotheres cachinnans 195 



sociabilis 195 



Heteragrion 262, 263, 264 



chrysops 222, 223, 264 



erythrogastrum 234 



petiolatum 260 



tricellulare 234, 239, 250 



Heterapis 29 



Heteropodagrion, 240, 259, 260, 262, 

 263 



Himantodes gemmistriatus 173 



Hirundinida; 206 



Hirundo albiventer 206 



chalybea 206 



Holoprion 535 



Holoquiscalus lugubris 212 



Holoshesthes 535 



Homalopsinse 168 



Hormilia 361 



Hyalopteryx asinus 313 



gracilis 313 



rufipennis 312 



specularis 313 



Hydrocorax vigua 194 



Hyla auraria 161 



chimboe 157 



depressiceps 159 



labialis 159 



maxima : 156, 170 



mesophsea 160 



nebulosa 159 



phiEota 159 



quinquefasciata 160 



quitoe 159 



riobambae 157 



rubra 156,157 



venulosa 160 



Hylaeoides 29 



Hylidaj... 170 



Hylocharis cyanus viridiventris 202 



Hylodes achatinus 163 



buckleyi 163 



conspicillatus 161 



longirostris '. 164 



pagmsB 162 




730 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Hylodes surdus 163 



unistrigatus 162, 163 



whymperi 163 



Hyloxalus bocagei....: 166 



huigrse 165 



Hyperophora angustipennis 360 



brasiliensis 360 



major 360 



minor 360 



Hyphessobrycon 518 



agulha 549 



bellotti.... 552 



hasemani 545 



minor 547 



stigmatias 547 



Hypoaspis distans 686 



Hyponeura 235 



Hyria corrugata exasperata 621, 664 



exasperata 664 



jamauchimensis 621, 664 



rugossissima 665 



Ibididae 193 



Icteridaj 211 



Icterus am-icapillus 190, 211 



chrysocephalus 212 



xanthornus 212 



Ictiobus 45 



Idiopyrgus • 622 



pilsbryi 621,658 



souleyetanus.. 659 



Iguana tuberculata 172 



Iguanida; 169, 171, 173 



Innuus ecaudatus 147 



erythryacus 147 



Insara 361 



Inusia pallida 337 



Iridoprocne albiventer 206 



Isastrsea conferta 593 



turbinata 593 



Ischnoptera brasiliensis 276 



marginata 276 



rufa 276 



Ischnura denticoUis 222, 224 



granti 222,224 



Isophlebia 252, 253, 254 



Jacana jacana 192 



Jacanidse 192 



Jacaretinga sclerops 173 



Janus albocinctus 187 



gibberosus 187 



Jodacris nebulosa 339 



Kinosternon pensylvanicum 62 



Lachesis lanceolatus 507 



microphthalmus 169 



schlegelii 169 



Lactista pulchripennis 85 



Lagodon rhomboides 64 



Lampropeltis micropholis 168 



Lampropsar guianensis 212 



tangrinus guianensis 212 



Lanius canadensis 202 



carbo 210 



cayanus 205 



dominicensis 205 



lictor 20Jf. 



pitangua 205 



punctatus 202 



Laphyctes satrapa 205 



Laridaj..... 192 



Latirus cingulifera 495 



Leda acuta 496 



commutata 499 



j amaicensis 499 



mauritiana 499 



vulgaris 496,499,500 



V. var. obliterata 500 



Leiotettix flavipes 348 



hastatus 348 



politus 346 



pulcher 348 



sanguineus 346 



Leistes militaris 211 



Leptinaria 623 



anomala 646 



imperforata 621,646 



lamellata 621,645 



1. concentrica 621, 645 



perforata 621, 645 



Leptodeira albofusca 168 



personata 173 



Leptodon uncinatus 196 



Leptognathus andianus 169 



ellipsifera 169 



Leptophis occidentalis 168 



Leptotila insularis 191 



verreauxi insularis 191 



Leptysma filiformis 336 



obscura 336 



Leptysmina pallida 337 



Lerneaenicus radiatus 62 



Lestis 29 



serata 44 



bombylans 44 



Leucauge hortorum 678 



Leuciscus 70 



lineatus , 71 



Leucochroa 381 



Leucopternus albicoUis 195 



Leucos 66 



Leucus dimidiatus 66, 67 



olivaceus 66, m 



Libellago 235 



Ligocatinus borrellii 365 



olivaceus 365 



spinatus 365 



Linyphia galbea 179 



Liobunum biolleyi 683 



foveolatum 683 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



731 



Liocephalus guntheri 170 



iridescens 170 



Liophis albiventris 168 



Lipomyzon 53, 54 



brevirostris 53 



cujus oU 



liorus 53 



Lithagrion, 232, 251, 254, 259, 262, 263 



hyalinum 250 



Lithurgus 29 



Littoridina 622 



charruana 658 



maniii 621, 658 



Littorina angulifera 495 



Livona pica 608 



Locusta spinipes 376 



Locustinae 88 



Lophopsetta maculata 65 



Loricariidse 571 



Loricariinse 574 



Loxia americana 208 



grisea 208 



minuta 208 



Lucania parva 63 



Lucidella 3 



aureola 3-8, 10-12, 15, 16, 18 



a. var. granulosa 7,7 



a. minor 16 



granulosa 3-7, 11-18 



montegoensis 12 



undulata 7, 7 



Lucina chrysostoma 496 



Lycosa aspera 182 



brevitarsis 680 



exalbida 182 



febriculosa 182 



hellus 182 



Lygophis 80 



Lymnaea columella 62 



Lystrophis dorbigny 216 



semicinctus 215 



Mabuya agilis 173 



M achetornis flavigularis 203 



Msevia annulipes 187 



aurulenta 187 



cristata 187 



lineata 187 



niger 187 



pallida 187 



pehcillata 187 



sulphurea 187 



tibialis 187 



vittata 186,187 



Malmagrion eichstattense 247 



Mangora picta 679 



trilineata 679 



Manicina areolata 497 



Mantida; 284 



Mantis argentina 286 



crenaticoUis 290,2^\ 



Mantis gayi 290 



hyaloptera 298 



lobipes 299^ 



rustica 29!^ 



unipunctata 298 



Mantoida burmeisteri 284 



Marginella cincta 495 



minuta 495 



pallida 495 



Marinula colonia 494 



Marisa 622 



cornu-arietis 621,661 



Marpissa undata 187 



varia 187 



Mastax nigra 82 



Maypacius floridanus 181 



Mecistogaster 234 



Megachile 29 



cornifera 44 



fumipennis 44 



monstrosa 44 



m. cornifera 44 



semiluctuosa 44 



Megaloprepus 234,235 



I Megalostrata venifica 183 



Megamyrmecion californicum 181 



Meganeurula 245 



Megapodagrion...236, 237, 258, 262, 263 



j nebulosum 236 



Megarhynchus pitangua 205 



Megastomatobus 45 



Melanagrion, 220, 231, 249, 251, 257, 

 I 261-26S 



umbratum 250 



' Melania batesii ,. 648. 



branca 648 



bullata 651 



charpentieri 648 



transversa 6J^9 



ventricosa 648 



Melanopsis brasiliensis 657 



Meleagroteuthis 76 



hoylei 75,75 



Melestora adspersicollis 283 



fulvella 28S 



fuscella 283 



Melina ephippium 496 



Melittosmithia 29 



Mellitidia 29 



Melongena melongena 497, 608 



Menidia beryllina 63 



menidia notata 63 



Menticirrhus saxatilis 64 



Meroglossa 28 



desponsa var. kershawi 32 



. ion 240, 261-263 



Mesopodagrion 258,262 



Metacyrba 187 



Metagrion 261 



Metaleptea minor SIJ^ 



Metalia sp 601 




732 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Meterginus signatus 683 



JVIetula amosi 22 



elongata 23 



gabbi 23 



Miathyria simplex 248 



Micrarionta 382 



areolata 386, 390, 392 



a. var. arida 391 



A. var. aspersa 392 



a. var. exanimata 391,392 



a. var. scammoni 392 



desertorum 382 



facta 382 



gabbi 382 



guadaloupiana 382 



hutsoni 382 



kelletti 382 



leucanthea 385, 386 



levis 382,387 



1. var. crassula 389 



1. globosa..' 389 



orcutti 382 



pandorjB 382,384 



ruficincta 382 



.stearnsiana 382 



veatchii 382, 384, 386, 387 



V. canescens 386 



V. leucanthea 385 



M icromerus 235 



Micropogon undulatus 64 



M icr orhopias grisea intermedia. .190, 202 



JVIicrostigma 235 



Milvus leucurus 196 



Mimidae 207 



Mimus gilvus melanopterus 207 



melanopterus W7 



Minvtrema melanops 56 



Miogryllus ......399,400 



Mionectes oleagineus pallidiven- 



tris 203 



Miopteryx rustica 294 



Misumena georgiana 179 



spinosa 179 



Mniotiltida? 207 



Modulus catenulatus 495 



modulus 495,608 



Mrenkhausia cotinho 549 



lepidura 543 



1. gracilima 543 



'1. madeirse '. 540 



Mohnia buccinoides 503 



corbis 501 



exquisita 502 



hondoensis 503 



japonica 503 



kurilana 503 



robusta 501 



siphonoides 502 



vernalis 502 



Monastria biguttata 282 



JMorone americana 64 



Motacilla sequinoctialis 208 



estiva 208 



cayana 209 



cyanea 209 



galeata 205 



novaboracensis 208 



spiza 210 



Motacillida; 208 



Moxostoma 60 



alleghaniensis 58 



anisurum » 56 



aureolum 57-59 



austrinum 57 



breviceps 59 



cervinum 60 



claviformis 56 



coUapsum 57 



congestum 55, 57 



crassilabre 59 



duquesnei 58 



erythrurum 57, 59 



kemerlyi 55, 55 



lachrymale 58 



lesueurii 58 



macrolepidotum 58 



robustum 57 



rupiscartes 60 



Mugil curema 63 



Murex nodatus 495 



pomum 495 



rufus 495 



Muscicapa maculata 204 



pica 203 



rufa 205 



tyrannus 205 



Muscicapara gaimardii 204 



Muscivora tyrannus 205 



Musculium partumeium 62 



Mustelus canis 62 



Mya syrmatophora 665 



Mycetes seniculus 147 



Myiarchus ferox venezuelensis 205 



venezuelensis 205 



Myiodynastes maculatus 204 



Myiozetetes similis columbianus, 190, 

 204, 204 



Myloleucus 66 



bicolor 69 



parovanus 69 



pulverulentus 71 



thalassinus 68, 69 



Myospiza manimbe 209 



Myrmarachne 188 



hentzi 188 



Mytilus exustus 496 



Naja leucodira 509 



morgani 508, 509 



tripudians samarensis 508 



sputatrix 509 



tripudians 508, 509 



t. var. samarensis 508 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



■33 



523 



Nannostominse ■_ 



Nannostomus stigmasemion 523 



Nannotettix bilineatus 372 



guentheri 372 



pallidevittatus 372 



Nassa vibex 495 



Natica pusilla 495 



Navicula placenta Oqq 



Necator americana 13o 



Nemobius, 394, 395, 398-401, 404, 417, 

 433, 446, 451-453, 455, 460, 466, 

 468, 489, 491 



affinis 474,4?5,480 



aUeni 400 



ambitiosus, 401, 402, 404, 430, 

 439, 441 



angusticoUis 401, 47^, 480 



aterrimus, 400, 425, ^56, 460, U75 



brasiliensis, 399, 401, 403, 426, 



444-^46, 44^ 



brevicaudus -4^^ 



bruneri, 401, 403, 438, 449, 452, 



480 



canus, 400, .',08, 409, 415, 417, 423 



425, 427 



carolinus, 400, 401, 404, 408, 417, 



452, 455, 4-55, 460, 461, 467, 468, 



471 472-475, 479, 480, 482-490 j 



c. brevicaudus 401,404,482 , 



c. neomexicanus, 401, 404, 451, j 

 462,483,484,487 



circumcinctus 399 



comanchus 401, 461, 464 



confusus, 401, 404, 430, 468, 474, 



475, 478, 480, 489, 492 



cubensis, 400, 401, 403, 407, 417, 



425, 434, 437, 455-457, 460-463, 



468, 469, 474, 47o, 479, 480 



c. mormonius, 401, 403, 445, 452, 



456, 461, 467, 485, 488 



delicatus 399 



denticulatus '^^^'^' ^ 



distinguendus 399,400 



ensifer. 399,400 



exiguus, 400, 405, 417, 473, 474, 



475, 479, 480 



fasciatus, 376, 400, 402, 405, 407- 



410 412-417, 422-433, 435, 



437, 440, 444-447, 452, 456, 457, 



469. 471, 478, 479 



f. abortivus, 401, 402, 412-415, 



427, 429 



f. socius, 400, 401, 402, 412-416, 



424-426, 437 



f. vittatus 407,408,409 



funeralis -^37 



eriseus, 401, 402, 404, 409, 410, 



430, 434, 436-438, 440 



g. funeralis 401, 402, 404, 437 



hastatus 401,426 



janus 475,480 



Nemobius lineolatus 398 



longipennis 376,377,446 



maculatus, 401, 402, 404, 4O8, 409, 



409, 410, 411, 417, 428, 430, 433, 



441,489,491,492 



major j-tb 



marginatus 41/ 



melleus 401,44^,449 



mexicanus, 400, 444, 445, 4^0, 451, 

 467,465,467 



mormonius -^61 



neomexicanus 400, 467, 4^4, 488 



palustris, 401, 403, 409, 417, 4.56, 



4.57, 460, 468, 471, 472, 474, 47o, 



480, 489, 490 



p. aurantius 401, 403, 4/2 



panteli 401,443,444 



pictus 399,400 



mfus 377,400 



(anaxipha) septentnonalis, 4' 3, 



socius 423,427,474,480 



svlvestris 395, 405, 450, 451 



toltecus. 403, 449-451, /M, 488 



trinitatis 400 



utahensis 400, 407, 4O8, 409, 417 



vittatus 405, 4O6, 407, 409, 474 



volaticus, 401, 4oo, 460, 473, 474^ 

 479,480 



Nemosia nigrogenis...: 



Neoceratina 



Neoconocephalus macropt erus 



muticus 



redtenbacheri 



saturatus 



Neonemobius 403, 449, 456, 



Neopasiphae 



Neoxabea brevipes ■_ 



bipunctata 377, 



Neritina virginea 494, 



viridis 



Nesolestes 245,258, 



Neuragrion, 240, 241, 2.57, 259, 262, 



mysticum 221, 



Neurolestes 245, 2.57, 262, 



trinervis 221,223, 



Neurothemis 



Nitzschia 



clausii 



Nomada 



Nomia 



austraUca 



flavoviridis 



Nomioides 



Notolepidomyzon... 



Nototrema marsupiatum. 



Nyctibora limbata 



Nyctidromus albicollis 



Nyctinassa violacea 



Nyctiprogne leucopyga . . 



-209 



29 



375 



374 



375 



37.'> 



46H 



29 



377 



378 



497 



490 



262 



26a 



223 



264 



245 



255 



581 



582 



20 



29 



44 



44 



44 



29 



47 



161 



277 



198 



193 



198 




734 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Octopus (Polypus) 77 



granulatus 77 



4 Idontostilbe drepanon 529 



fugitiva 529,532 



madeirae 527 



< )dontostomus 622 



costulatus 62 1 



fasciatus 621 



(Cyclodontina) inflatus 621, 640 



(Cyclodontina) i. costulatus, 641, 



642 



(Cyclodontina) i. fasciatus, 641, 



642 



(Cyclodontina) i. marangua- 



pensis 641 



maranguapensis 621 



scabrellus 642 



s. cylindricus 621 



<Ecanthus 377 



<Edipoda pallidipennis 322 



<Edipodin8B 85 



<Egopsida 75 



•Olcyphides fasciatus 300 



'hopii 300 



Oleacina striata 627 



Oligodon schadenbergi 217, 218 



vertebralis 216,218 



Olivella myrmecoon 494 



Omalaxis funiculus 25 



f. contracta 25 



Omalotettix signatipes 339 



Ommatolampis 102 



colibri 89 



nodicollis \Q\,102 



palpata 102 



perspicillata 102 



« )mmexecha 324, 325 



germari 328 



giglio-tosi 328 



servillei 328 



virens 328 



Omura 86 



congrua 86 



■( )nchorhynchus tschawy tscha 74 



Onvchoteuthis banksii 77 



' bergii 77 



kamtschatica 77 



Opeas 622 



beckianum 621,644 



gracile 621,645 



octogyrum 621, 644 



opella 621,645 



«( )phthalmolampis 89 



colibri 89 



< )pisthocomid£e 191 



< )pisthocomus hoazin 191 



Opsomala filiformis S36 



puncticeps 337 



Orbicella cellulosa 599 



(Astraea) crassolamellata 599 



jendothecata 599 



Orbicella sp 599 



Orbitoides 592 



Oriolus chrysocephalus 212 



icterocephalus 211 



mexicanus 211 



viridis 211 



xanthornus 212 



Ornysmya delphinse 201 



felicia; 201 



oenone 202 



Oroseris n. sp 599 



Orphula.. 83 



gracilicornis 316 



pagana 313,315 



p. minor 83,314,315 



Orphulella elegans 316,317 



elongata 317 



intricata 316, 317 



punctata 316,317 



Orphulina 83 



veteratoria 83 



Orthalicus 622 



sultana 621 



s. meobambensis 640 



Orthopristis chrysopterus 64 



Osmilia violacea 353 



Osmiliola aurita 339 



Ossa......... 324 



viridis 323 



Ostinops decumanus 211 



viridis 211 



Ostrea antiguensis 603,614,615 



gatunensis 603 



haitensis 603,614 



virginica 496,497 



Oulenotacris 102 



robusta 103 



Ovalipes ocellatus 64 



Oxybelis acuminatus 173 



Oxyblepta bohlsii 338 



puncticeps 337 



Oxybleptella pulchella 337 



sagitta 337 



Oxyopeidon molestum 680 



Oxyopsis lobeter 297 



Oxyrhabdium modestum 214 



Oxyrhopus cloelia 78 



petolarius 78 



trigeminus 78-80 



Oxystigma 260 



Oxystyla 623 



pulchella 621, 639, 639 



p. prototypus 621, 639 



Oxyurus vermicularis 138 



Pachydiplax 248 



Pachygnatha brevis 180, 183 



furcillata 180 



tristriata 183 



xanthostoma 183 



Pachyossa 324 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



735 



Pachyossa signata 325 



Pachyprosopis 28 



atromicans 37 



hsematostoma 36 



nitidiceps 37 



Pachyrhamphus cinereiventris 205 



rufus. 205 



Pachysylvia aurantiifrons satur- 



ata 190,207 



Palsemonetes vulgaris 64 



Palaeophlebia sjTilestoides 251 



Palseorhiza 29 



Palamedea cornuta 194 



Palamedeidse 194 



Panchlora thalassina 282 



Pantala 255 



Pantosteus arizonse 47 



delphinus 48 



generosus 47 



plebeius 47 



santa-anse 48 



Paracolletes 29 



Paradichroplus bilobus 350 



brunneri 351 



nigrigena 350 



Paragonimus westermanii 148 



Paralichthys dentatus 65 



Paramastax 82 



nigra 82 



Paramusonia livida 295 ^ 



seclusa 295 ' 



Paranemobius 398 j 



Paraphasma marginale 300,301 



Paraphlebia, 234-237, 253, 254, 260, i 

 261,263,264 



abrogata 237, 238, 250 | 



duodecima 238, 260 



hyalina 259, 261, 264 



quinta 222,223 



zoe 237,249,250,264 



Parasphecodes 28 ; 



Parastagmatoptera unipunctata... 298 I 



Pardosa sp 680 j 



Parleptynia 301,302 



Paroaria nigrogenis 209 



Parorphula pallidinota 316 



Parossa 323,325 



bimaculata 324 



viridis 323 



Paroxyprora tenuicauda 374 



Parra cayennensis 192 



jacana 192 



Parus cela 211 



Paulinia 323 



Peckhamia scorpiona 188 



Peeten (Chlamys) anguillensis, 600, 



602,603 



(Amusium) antiguensis, 603, 613 



antillarum 602 j 



exasperatus 496 I 



(Plagioctenium) gabbi, 600,602,603 | 



Peeten gibbus 496 



g. dislocatus 496 



luculentus 602 



(Amusium) lyonii 613 



nugenti 603,614 



(^quipecten) oxygonum 601 



o. optimum 601, 602 



paranensis 601, 602, 602 



sol 613 



(iEquipecten) thetidis 602 



ziczac 496 



Pelayo insignis 677 



Perdita 28 



Perichsetidse 215 



Perilestes 249, 256, 260-264 



fragilis 250 



Periplaneta brunnea 281 



Pezotettix amoenus 113 



bergii 345 



peruvianus 113 



robustulus 845 



Phacoides antillarum 496 



crenulatus... 496 



leucocyma 496 



lintea 496 



pectinatus 496,497 



sp 496 



Phaetusa chloropoda 192 



PhalacrocoracidsB 194 



Phalacrocorax vigua 194 



Phaneroptera cruenta 365 



Phasianella pulchella 495 



Phasianus hoazin 191 



Phasma hopii 301 



Phasmidaj 300 



Phenacolestes, 220, 221, 224, 225, 230, 



231 235-245, 251-257, 261-264 



mirandus, 220, 224-226, 228, 229, 



250, 264 



parellelus 220, 224, 225, 229 



PhenacoUetes 28 



Phiale modesta 187 



Phidippus alchymista 186 



asinarius 184 



auctus 185 



audax..... 184-186 



cardinalis 187 



carolinus 184 



concinnatus 186 



dubiosus 186 



electus 186 



elegans 185 



lunulatus 184 



multicolor 185, 186 



multiformis 184, 186 



mundulus 186 



mystaceus 184 



otiosus 185 



paludatus 185 



personatus 186 



podagrosus 184, 186 




736 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Phidippus purpurifer 185 



regius .* 185 



rufus 186 



smaragdif er 184 



t estaceus 184 



togatus 185 



variegatus 184 



Philodromus) expositus 179 



marxi 179 



prselustris 179 



satuUus 179 



signatus 179 



Philodryas elegans 78 



Philogenia, 235, 236, 240, 243, 251, 254, 

 259, 262-264 



carillica 234, 235,250 



terraba 234, 235, 250, 259, 262 



Phlugis spinipes....^ 376 



tener 376 



Pholadomya 590 



Phos intricatus 495 



Phryniscus Isevis 164 



Phrynonyx fasciatus 171 



Phyllobates infraguttatus 165 



Phyllodromus pulchellus 164 



Phylloptera ovalifolia 371 



spinulosa 371 



Phylloscirtus amoenus 379 



Phyllovates iheringi ^99 



parallela 299 



Physa 623 



rivalis 621, 661, 663, 670 



sowerbyana 661 



sp 661 



Physocyclus dugesi 181 



Piaya cayana colombiana 198 



Picidae 200 



Picolaptes albolineatus 203 



Picus lineatus 200 



melanoleucos . WO 



Pinnularia 581 



Pionus menstruus 197 



Pipra flavogaster ?^4 



lanceolata .^06 



leucocephala MS 



Pipridse 208 



Pitangus dei'byanus rufipennis 204 



lictor 204 



Pitar subarresta 496 



Pithecomyzon 54 



Pithecus satyrus 147 



Placopharynx 58 



carinatus 60 



Planesticus phseopygus phseopy- 



goides 207 



Planorbis 623 



alabamensis 62 



anatinus 621, 661, 663, 670 



cimex 622,661 



cultratus 622,661 



depressissimus 622, 662 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



73; 



Prosopis alcyonea. 43 



amicula 41 



asinella 37, 38 



chlorosoma .40, 41 



chromatica 42 



chrysognatha 43 



cognata 43 



constricta 39 



elegans 43 



hsematopoda 42 



lateralis 42 



leucosphEera 42 



mediovirens 39 



minuscula 38,40,41 



primulipicta . . 38 



proxiina 43 



rotundiceps 42 



scintilla 41 



scintilliformis 41 



vittatifrons 39,40 



xantho;si)hu'ra ,. .41, 42 



Prosthcrapis wliymperi 165 



Prothacustes mexicana 399 



Protolestes 260,262 



Protomyrmeleon, 247, 248, 2.51-253, 

 255 



brunonis 247,2.50 



Prototettix lobulatus 304 



Psadara 622 



derbyi 6.34 



d. cearana 622,634 



Pseudocorynopoma 561 



Pseudoeupha^a 246 



Pseudomiopteryx 295 



infuscata 295 



Pseudomops neglecta 275 



Pseudopleuronectes americanus 65 



Psittacida? 196 



Psittacula passerina 196 



Psittacus seruginosus 196 



amazonicus : 197 



ararauna 196 



leucophthalmus 196 



menstruus 197 



ochrocephalus 197 



passerinus 196 



Psoloessa texana 314 



Pteroglossus aracari roraima? 1 99 



roraimse 199 



Ptychostomus breviceps 59 



bucco 57, 58 



cervinus .59, 60, 60 



collapsum 57 



crassilabris 59 



lachrymalis 58 



pidiensis 56, 56 



robustus 57 



velatus 56 



Pulsatrix perspioillata ,. 196 



Pupa fasciata 64I 



inflata 6/fi 



I Pupa servilis ^4^' 



I Purpura 608- 



deltoidea 608 



Pyrgomorphinse 86 



Pyrrhocorax colombiana 198 



Pyrrhosoma nymphula 222, 224 



Pyrrhura emma 196 



Quiscalus lugubri:- 



212 



Raja eglanteria 62 



ocellata 62' 



Rallidaj 191 



Ramphastida; 198 



Ramphastos ha!matorhynchus 199 



monilis 198 



vitellinus 199' 



Ramphocelus carbo 210 



Rana brevipalmata rhoatl ^i . 16(> 



clamata 167 



RanidjE 164 



Ranula brevipalmata 167 



Rhadinsea cobella .171 



Rhesus macaque 147 



Rhicnoda jorgenseni 27" 



rugosa 21 1 



Rhinagrion 258, 262 



Rhinocypha biforata 235 



Rhinophrynus dorsalis. 173 



Rhinus 636 



Rhipidolestes, 241, 249, 256, 257, 262. 

 263 



aculeata 241,250 



Rhodarsea irregularis 599 



Rhomalea peruviana 88 



Rhynchocyclus assimilis 20 J^ 



olivaceus guianensis 203 



sulphurescens assimilis 204 



Rhyncholophus stolli 685 



Rhynchops cinerascens 192 



nigra cinerescens 192 



Rissoina cancellata 495 



elegantissima 495 



laevigata var . browniana 495 



striatocostat a 495 



Roccus lineatus 64 



Rostrhamus sociabilis 195 



Rupornis magnirostris 195 



' Rutilus 66,70 



1 anticus 69 



bicolor 69 



formosus 70 



olivaceus 66 



] oregonensis 67 



symmetricus 70 



tiialassinus 68 



! Saltator oiivascens 209 



I Salticus albocinctus 188 



ephippiatus 188 



I scenicus 187 




738 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



iSaparus 101 



sequatorialis 101 



Sarcorhampus papa 194 



Saropoda 29 



bombif ormis 44 



Saucerottea erythronota feliciae 201 



Saurophagus rufipennis 204 



Scala (Sthenorhytis) antiguensis. . 612 



Scapharca pittieri 496 



Scaphura nigra 366 



Scapteriscus borellii 376 



Scardafella ridgwayi 191 



Scartomyzon 59 



Schistocerca 110 



segyptia 110 



jBqualis Ill, 112 



desiliens 111,112 



infumata 339 



peregrina 112 



paranensis ....' 112, 340 



vaga 110,111 



V. brevis 110,111 



Schizaster clevei 601 



Sciaenops ocellatus 64 



Scincidse 173 



Sclateria naevia 202 



Sclenops mexicana 679 



Sclerognathus 45 



cyprinella 45 



Scolodonta 628 



Scolopacidae 192 



Scolopax rubra 193 



brasiliensis 192 



Scomber scombrus 64 



Scyllina 318 



picta 321 



Segmentina 622 



janeirensis 663 



paparyensis 622, 662 



Seiurus novaboracensis 208 



Sergiolus cyaneiventris 181 



Serinopsis arvensis minor 209 



Sicalis colombiana 209 



•Siderastrea sidera 497 



Sidusa fulvoguttata 680 



Sigaretus perspectivus 495 



Silliis putus 678 



Singa abbreviata 679 



dotana 679 



vanbruysellii 182 



Sinipta dalmani 315 



Siphateles 66 



vittatus 66,^7 



Sisantum gracilicorne 316 



Sismondia antillarum 601 



Sitalces 105 



balzapambse 105 



debilis 108 



nudus 108 



trinitatis 106 



volvexemi 105 



Sitta nsevia 202 



Solaropsis 622 



rugifera 622,633 



r. var. jumana 634 



Solenastrsea turonensis 593 



Sonorella.... 382 



Sosilaus spiniger ;... 182 



Sosippus californicus 182 



Sparvius caerulescens 194 



Spathalium 86,325 



bolivari 329 



cyanopterum 329 



hispidum 86 



klugii 329 



paranense 86 



serrulatum 329 



sommeri 86 



stali 329 



Sphecodes 29 



Spheroides maculatus 65 



Spilotes pullatus 171 



Spiroptera 129, 132. 137 



incerta 126, 131, 133, 146 



pungens 126 



sanguinolenta 137, 139 



Spondylus bostrichites 603 



sp... 603 



Sporophila americana 208 



grisea 208 



minuta 208 



Stagmatoptera hyaloptera 298 



precaria 299 



Staurorhectus glaucipes 318 



intermedius 318 



longicornis 317,318 



Steirodon dentiferum 367 



Steleopteron 246, 248, 249, 251-255 



deichmiilleri 250 



Steleoxiphus catastates 301 



Stelgidopteryx ruficollis aequalis... 206 



Stenobothrus signatipennis 321, 322 



Stenodictya 255 



Stenophlebia 252, 253, 254 



Stenopoda bohlsii 338 



Stenotomus chrysops 64 



Stenotritus 29 



Stephanocsenia sp 599 



tenuis 593 



Stilpnochlora incisa 367 



Stilpnosoma 28 



Sterna chloropoda 192 



Stirapleura bruneri 321 



Stratocles 301 



Streptaxis 623,629 



abunaensis 622, 629 



comboides laevigata 622, 627 



cookeana 622,628 



cumingianus 629 



deformis 622,627 



deplanchei 622,628 



d. quixadaensis 622, 628 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



739 



Streptaxis glaber 629 



subregularis 622, 627 



Strix perspicillata 196 



Strobilops 622 



*brasiliana 622,647 



Strombus bituberculatus 495 



gigas 608 



pugillus 495 



Strophocheilus 622 



(Borus) cantagallanus 622, 634 



(Boms) maximus 622,634 



(Bonis) oblongus 622, 634 



8tygnoleptes 682 



analis 682 



StylocEenia lobato-rotundata 593 



Stylophora sp 599 



Subemarginula emarginata 496 



roUandii 496 



Subulina 622 



octona 609,622 



Succinea 622 



barbadensis 609 



boonii 609 



elongata 609 



pusilla , 622,647 



Sycalis columbiana 209 



minor 209 



Sylvia chivi 207 



Symphyllia n. sp 599 



Synallaxis albescens albigularis 203 



albigularis 203 



alopecias 202 



cinnamomea 203 



Synapterpes sp 646 



Synedra 581 



Synema nigromaculata 179 



parvula 179 



Synemosyna formica 187 



Syngnathus fuscus 64 



Synlestes 245, 258, 262 



%strophia 622 



eatoni 622,631 



helicycloides 631 



stenogyra 631 



Tachyphonus rufus 210 



surinamus 211 



Taenia echinococcus 149 



marginata 149, 150 



Taeniophora 91 



dentipes 91 



femorata 91 



geniculata 91 



Tamatia bicincta 199 



Tanagra desmerestii 190, 210 



melanoptera 210 



rufa : 210 



sclateri .' 210 



trinitatis 190,210 



Tangaridae 210 



Tarsophlebia 252-254 



1 Tarsophlebia eximia 248-253 



; westwoodi 252 



I Tautoga onitis 65 



Tegenaria emertoni 180 



nana 181 



Tegula fasciata 496 



! Teiidffi 170,173 



Teinostoma bartschi 26 



I hondurasensis 26, 27 



schumoi 25, 26 



solida 26 



Tellina (Eurytellina) alternata 497 



(Cyclotellina) f aust a 497 



(Angulus) promera 497 



(Angulus) versicolor 497 



I Teminius conjuncta 676 



Teratodes depressus 183 



Terebra protexta 498 



spei 494,497 



Teretulus 60 



Testudinida?.. 173 



Testudo denticulata 173 



Tetana grisea 353 



Tet anorhynchus borellii 306 



Tetragnatha alba 678 



antillana 678 



I guatemalensis 678 



! mexicana 678 



tenuissima 678 



Tetragonopterinae 537, 564 



: alleni 540 



Tetraplodon ambiguus 664 



quadrilaterum 664 



Tetrodontid* 579 



Tettigidea annulipes 304 



arcuata 306 



chichimeca 304 



multicostata 306 



paratecta 304 



prorsa 304 



scudderi 304 



tecta , 304 



Tettigonidse 353 



Tettix lobulata 304 



Thalurania refulgens 201 



Thamnophilus canadensis 202 



punctatus 202 



Thamnoscirtus amoenus 379 



cicindeloides 379 



viridicatus 379 



Thaumatias chionopectus 201 



Thaumatoneura, 221, 224, 233-237, 

 249, 253, 255, 257, 261, 263, 264 



inopinata 221, 233, 250 



pellucida 221, 233, 250 



Thaumatosoma 29, 35 



Theocly tes surinamensis 299 



Theridion biolleyi 678 



Theridium glaucescens 182 



Thespis livida 295 



Thesprotia vidua 296 




740 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec.,. 



Thiodina retarius 680 



Thoracocharax 560 



Thore 255 



Thraupis episcopus sclateri 210 



palmarum melanoptera 210 



Thryophilus rufalbus castano- 



notus 190,206 



Thryothorus rut ilus. 206 



Thysanophora 622 



cffica 622,632 



Tibellus 181 



Tigrisoma lineatum 193 



Tinamida; 190 



Tinus nigi-inus 680 



Titiotus californicus 181 



TitjTa cayana 205 



Tmarus floridensis 179 



griseus 1 79 



Todirostrum cinereum 204 



maculatum 205 



Todus cinereus 204 



maculatus 205 



Tomigerus 622,688 



clausus 622, 642, 643, 690 



cumingii 643 



Iffivis 622, 642, 643 



pilsbryi 622,643 



rochai 622, 642, 643 



Tonicia schrammi 496 



Tornatina canaliculata 494 



Toxopterus miniatus 317 



Tramea 255 



Trapidonotus Isevipes..... -. 330 



rosulentus 88 



Trechalea convexa 679 



Trichocolletes 28 



Tricocephalus 148 



affinis 1 48 



crenatus 1 48 



depressicollis 148 



dispar 147,148 



felis 148 



lemuris 147 



palaeformis 147 



serratus 148 



unguiculatus 148 



Trigona 29 



Trimerotropis pallidipennis 322 



vinculata 322 



Tringa macularia 192 



Trirhinopholis styani 213 



Tritonofusus hypolispus 502 



Trivia pediciilus 495 



Trochilida; 200 



Trochilus ensipennis 200 



fimbriatvis 201 



gramineus 201 



hirsutus 200 



mellivorus 201 



nigricoUis 201 



notatus 202 



I Trochilus superbus 



Trochosmilia n. sp 



Troglodytes musculus clarus 



Troglodytidae 



Trogon viridis 



Trogonidse 



Trombidium furcipes 



Tropidacris 



cardinalis 



cristata 



dux 



latreillei 



Tropidocerca 1 42, 



bispinosa 



certa 



contorta 141 , 1 46, 



fississpini 



globosa 



gynsecophila 



inermis 



paradoxa 



tenuis 



Tropidurus torquatus 



Tropinotus angulatus 



discoideus 



Tropisuris 142, 



Truxalis brevicornis 



obscura 



Tupinambis nigropunctatus 



teguexin 



Turbo crenulatus 



Turdida; 



Turdus atricapilla 



phseopygoides 



surinamus 



Turnerella 



Turritella 590, 



forrestii 603, 



Tutelina elegans 



Tylosurus marinus 



Tyrannidaj 



Tyrannus dominicensis 



melancholicus satrapa 



Tyttocharax 



madeirse 563, 



202 

 599 

 207 

 206 

 198 

 198 

 684 



Uncancylus 



Urophycis regius 



Uropoda clavisetosa 



bisetosa 



Urosalpinx sp 



Urotheca later istriga... 

 Urubitinga anthracina 



urubitinga 



89 



88 

 146 

 147 

 147 

 150 

 147 

 147 

 147 

 147 

 147 

 147 

 172 

 330 

 330 

 146 

 313. 

 336 

 173 

 173 

 495 

 207 

 207 

 207 

 211 



29' 

 600 

 612. 

 187 



63 

 203 

 205 

 205 

 563 

 564 



671 



65 

 685 



685 



495 

 168 

 195 

 195 



Vellea cruenta 365 



Vermetus nigricans 495 



Vilerna 98 



rugulosa 98 



Vireo chivi 207 



Vireonidge 207 




1913. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



741 



Vitrinella helicoidea 24 



hemphilli 24 



megastoma 24 



multistriata 24 



tryoni 24 



Volatinia j acarini splendens 208 



Voluta alfaroi 495 



Vultur papa 194 



Wahnesia ! 244, 260, 261 



Wala mitrata 187 



Walterinnesia segyptica .508, 509 



Xanthornus decumanus 211 



Xanthostoma 180 



Xerarionta 382 



Xiphicera viridicata 331 



Xiphidium longipes 375 



Xiphophasma 301 



missionum 302 



Xylocopa 29 



Xyrauchen texanus 54 



uncomphagre 55 



Xyrocharax 673 



Xysticus benefactor 178 



discursans ,.... 177 



emertoni 178 



Xysticus gulosus 178, 183 



hamatus 178 



lenis 178 



limbatus 177 



locuples 178 



luctans 183 



punctatus 178 



j 4-lineatus 178 



stomachosus 178, 179, 183 



striatus 178 



variabilis 178, 179 



I Yoldia perprotracta 496 



j Zimiris 676 



Zimiromus , 676 



fragilis 676 



Zoniopoda cruentata 334 



iheringi 333 



omnicolor 334 



tarsata 334 



Zonitoides 622 



parana 622, 632 



Zoolea lobipes 299 



Zygoclistron 96 



acutum 96 



superbum 96,98 




742 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1913. 



Additions to Museum, 712. 



Aebley, Jacob, Janitor, 711. 



Allen, Ada, Aid in Herbarium, 711. 



Ashton, Thomas G., M.D., Member of 

 Council, 711. 



Avebury, Lord, announcement of 

 death of, 515. 



Baird, Lucy H., announcement of 

 death of, 515. 



Baker, Fred. The land and fresh 

 water moUusks of the Stanford 

 Expedition to Brazil (Plates XXI- 

 XXVII), 515, 618. 



Banks, Nathan. Notes on the types 

 of some American spiders in Euro- 

 pean collections (Plates XI, XII, 

 XIII), 152, 177. Notes on some 

 Costa Ricau Arachnida (Plates 

 XXVIII-XXX), 580, 676. 



Balzer, Armin, announcement of death 

 of, 580. 



Barbour, Thomas. Reptiles collected 

 by the Yale Expedition of 1912 

 (Plate XVII), 505, 515. 



Berry, S. Stillman. Notes on some 

 West American Cephalopods, 73, 81. 



Biddle, Thomas, M.D. Committee 

 on library, 2. Thanks to, 2. Mem- 

 ber of Council, 711. 



Bilgram, Hugo. The critical point 

 in Uquids, 582. 



Billings, .lohn S., M.D., announcement 

 of death of, 152. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 704. 



Blanchard, Anna, announcement of 

 death of, 515. 



Botanical Section, report of, 707. 



Boyer, Charles S. On the diatoms of 

 Philadelphia, 581. Report of Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Section, 

 704. 



Braun, Annette Frances. Evolution of" 

 the color pattern in the microlepi- 

 dopterous genus LithocoUetis, 515. 



Brown, Amos P. Variation in two 

 species of Lucidella from Jamaica 

 (Plate I), 1, 3. Notes on the 

 geology of the Island of Antigua 

 (Plates XVIII-XX), 584. 



Brown, Amos P., and Henry A. Pilsbry. 



Two collections of Pleistocene fossils 

 from the Isthmus of Panama, 493, 

 515. 



Brown, Stewardson, report of Botanical 

 Section, 707. Assistant to Curators, 

 711. Recorder of Ornithological 

 Section, 710. Assistant to Curators, 

 711. 



Cadwalader, John. Committee on 

 Finance, 1. Vice-President of 

 Academy, 710. 



Calvert, Philip P., Ph.D. The fossil 

 Odonate Phenacolestes, with a dis- 

 cussion of the venation of the legion 

 Podagrion Selys (Plate XIV), 219, 

 225. Member of Council, 711. 



Campion, Herbert. The antenodal 

 reticulation of the wings of agrionine 

 dragonflies, 219, 220. 



Centenary Committee, thanks to, 617. 



Chamberlain, Rev. Leander T., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 219. 



Clappier, Charles, Janitor, 711. 



Cocchi, Igino, announcement of death 

 of, 515. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. Some Australian 

 bees, 28, 81. 



CoUett, Robert, announcement of 

 death of, 81. 



Collins, Alfred M., elected a member, 2. 



Conklin, Edwin G., Vice-President of 

 Academy, 710. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 

 695. 



Corson, Joseph H., announcement of 

 death of, 515. 



Council for 1914, 711. 



Cramp, Charles H., announcement of 

 death of, 515. 



Crawford, Joseph, Vice-Director of 

 Botanical Section, 708. 



Crease, Orlando, announcement of 

 death of, 515. 



Cresson, Ezra T., Treasurer and 

 member of Publication Committee 

 of Entomological Section, 706. 




1913.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



743 



Cresson, Ezra T., Jr., Member of 

 Publication Committee of the Ento- 

 mological Section, 706. Assistant ' 

 to Cm-ators, 711. 



Curators, report of, 699. 



Curtin, Roland G., M.D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 81. 



Cushing, Herbert H., elected a mem- 

 ber, .580. 



Dall, WilHam Healey. New species of 

 the genus Mohnia from the North , 

 Pacific, 501, 51.5. 



Davis, William B., Treasurer of 

 Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, 708. 



Department of MoUusca, report of, 

 702. 



Dixon, Edwin S., Committee on 

 Finance, 1. Member of Council, 

 710. 



Dixon, Samuel G., M.D., LL.D. 

 Report of Curators, 702. President 

 of Academy, 710. Curator of 

 Academy, 710. Member of Council, 

 711. 



Entomological Section, report of, 704. 



Fenton, Thomas H., M.D., Committee 

 on Library, 2. 



Finance, Committee on, 1. 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on catos- 

 tomoid fishes, 45, 81. Notes on the 

 fishes of the Chincoteague region of 

 Virginia, 61, 81. Some type-speci- I 

 mens of the American cyprinoid 

 fishes of the genus Rutilus, 66, 81. 

 Amphibians and reptiles from Ecua- 

 dor, Venezuela, and Yucatan (Plates 

 V-X), 152, 153. Fishes from the 

 Madeira River, Brazil, 515, 517. 

 Curimatus spilurus Cope, a wrongly 

 identified Characin, 673. Assistant 

 to Curators, 711. 



Fox, Henry. Data on the orthopteran 

 faunistics of eastern Pennsylvania 

 and southern New Jersey, 617. 



Fox, WiUiam J., Committee on Pub- 

 lications, 2. Assistant Librarian 

 710. 



Gorgas, Col. W. C, elected a Cor- 

 respondent, 81. 



Grant, WiUiam S., announcement of 

 death of, 515. 



Heath, Harold. The anatomy of two 

 Brazilian land snails, Anostoma 

 depressum and Tomigerus clausus 

 (Plate XXXI), 617, 688. 



Hebard, Morgan. A revision of the 

 species of the genus Nemobius 

 (Orthoptera, Gryllidje) found in 

 North America, north of the Isthmus i 

 of Panama, 394, 515. 



Heckler, Adam, Janitor, 711. 



Heckler, Daniel, Janitor, 711. 



Horstman, Walter, Committee on 

 Accounts, 710. 



Hughes, William E., M.D., on a 

 winter exploration of Bolivia and 

 Peru (no abstract), 219. Member of 

 Council, 711. 



Index to Genera, 721. 



Instruction and Lectm-es, Committee 

 on, 2. 



Jayne, Horace F., announcement of 

 death of, 515. 



Keeley, Frank J., Committee on 

 Librarj^, 2. Curator of William S. 

 Vaux collections, 2. Report of 

 Curator of William S. Vaux Col- 

 lections, 703. Member of Council, 

 711. Curator of Biological and 

 Microscopical Section, 704. Vice- 

 Director of Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 706. Member of 

 Council, 711. 



KeUy, Philip P., announcement of 

 death of, 515. 



Koenig, George A., announcement of 

 death of, 1 . 



Krumbhaar, Edward B., elected a 

 member, 516. 



Laurent, Philip, Director of Entomo- 

 logical Section, 706. 



LeConte, Robert G., M.D., Member 

 of Council, 710. 



Librarian, report of, 696. 



Library, Committee on, 2. 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith, Dii-ector of 

 the Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 708. 



McCadden, David, Taxidermist, 711. 



McClellan, George, M.D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 152. 



McClung, Clarence E., Ph.D., elected 

 a member, 516. 



Macfarlane, John M., M.D., on the 

 origin and distribution of animals 

 and plants (no abstract), 152. 



Mears, J. Ewing, M.D., elected a 

 member, 580. 



Mineralogical and ■ Geological Section, 

 report of, 708. 



Moore, Clarence B. Some aboriginal 

 sites in Louisiana and Arkansas, 152. 



Moore, J. Percy, report of Correspond- 

 ing Secretary, 695. Corresponding 

 Secretary of Academy, 710. Mem- 

 ber of Council, 711. 



Morris, Charles, Committee on In- 

 struction and Lectures, 2. Com- 

 mittee on Accounts, 710. Member 

 of Council, 711. 




'44 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



^Morris, Effingham B., Committee on 

 Finance, 1. 



Morris, George S., Committee on 

 Instruction and Lectures, 2. Vice- 

 Director of Ornithological Section, 

 710. Member of Council, 710. 



Morris, J. Cheston, Director of Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Section, 

 704. 



[Morris, Theodore W., announcement 

 of death of, 81. 



Nolan, Edward J., M.D., Committee 

 on Publications, 2. Report of 



Recording Secretary, 693. Report 

 of Librarian, 096. Librarian and 

 Recording Secretary of Academy, 

 710. Member of Council, 711. 



Officers, Councillors, etc., 1914, 710. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 709. 



Palmer, T. Chalkley. The collecting 

 and preparation of diatoms, 580. 

 Vice-Director of Biological and Mi- 

 croscopical Section, 704. 



Pennell, Francis W. Further notes on 

 the flora of the Conowingo Barrens 

 of Southeastern Pennsylvania, 1. 



Penrose, Charles B., M.D., Member of 

 Council, 711. 



Penrose, R. A. F., Jr., on the Twelfth 

 International Congress (no abstract), 

 617. 



Pilsbry, Henry, Sc.D. Committee on 

 Publications, 2. Committee on 

 Instruction and Lectures, 2. The 

 Helices of Lower California (Plates 

 XV, XVI), 219, 380. Report of the 

 Department of Mollusca, 702. Cura- 

 tor of Academy, 710. Member of 

 Council, 711. 



Publications, Committee on, 2. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 693. 



Rehn, James A. G. Description and 

 records of South American Orthop- 

 tera, with description of a new species 

 from Clarion Island, 81, 82. A 

 contribution to a knowledge of the 

 Orthoptera of Argentina, 219, 273. 

 Secretary of Entomological Section, 

 706. Assistant tQ Curators, 711. 



Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan 

 Hebard. A study of the species of 

 the genus Dichopetala (Orthoptera, 

 Tettigoniidaj), 515. On the Orthop- 

 tera found on the Florida Keys and 

 in extreme southern Plorida, II, 580. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 704. 



Report of the Botanical Section, 707. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 

 695. 



Report of the Curators, 699. 



Report of the Department of Mollusca, 

 702. 



Report of Entomological Section, 704. 



Report of Librarian, 696. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 708. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 709. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 693. 



Report on the William S. Vaux 

 Collections, 703. 

 I Reports of Sections, 704. 

 I Rhoads, Samuel M., Committee on 

 Accounts, 710. 



Rothermel, John G., Committee on 

 Accounts, 710. 



Scull, E. Marshall, elected a member, 2. 



Scattergood, J. Henry, elected a 

 member, 2. 



Schumo, Silas L., Corresponding Secre- 

 tary of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 704. Recorder and Secre- 

 tary of the Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 708. 



Sclater, Philip L., announcement of 

 death of, 515. 



Shryock, William A., Secretary of 

 Ornithological Section, 710. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D., Committee on 

 Publications, 2. Report of Ento- 

 mological Section, 704. Conservator 

 and Recorder of Entomological Sec- 

 tion, 706. Member of Council, 711. 



Smith, Benjamin H., Director of 

 Botanical Section, 708. 

 ] Spaeth, R. A. The distribution of the 

 genus Cyclops in the vicinity of 

 Haverford, Pennsylvania, 1. 



Stamp, Harvey, M.D., elected a 

 member, 580. 



Standing Committees, 1. 



Steinbach, Lewis W., announcement of 

 death of, 81. 



Stewart, Thomas S., M.D., Treasurer 

 ! of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 704. Committee on 

 Accounts, 710. 



Stone, Witmer, Sc.D., Committee on 

 Publications, 2. Committee on 

 Instruction and Lectures, 2. On a 

 collection of birds obtained by the 

 Francis E. Bond Expedition to the 

 Orinoco Delta, 152, 189. Report of 

 Ornithological Section, -710. ^ Con- 

 servator of Ornithological Section, 

 710. Curator of Academy, 710. 

 Member of Council, 711. 



Tague, James, Janitor, 711. 



Thompson, Edward H., on the ancient 

 t ruins of Yucatan and its modern 

 I inhabitants (no abstract), 81. 




1913.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



745 



Thomson, J. C, M.D. Oxyrhopus 

 trigeminus Dum. et Bibr. the type 

 of Erythroxyrhopus gen. nov., 1, 78. 

 Notes on serpents in the family 

 Colubridae, 152, 213. Contributions 

 to the synonymy of serpents in the 

 family Elapidaj, 508, 515. Contri- 

 bution to the anatomy of the 

 Ilysiida;, 580. 



Trotter, Spencer, M.D., Director of 

 Ornithological Section, 710. Mem- 

 ber of Council, 711. 



Tucker, Henry, M.D., Committee on 

 Library, 2. Committee on Instruc- 

 tion and Lectures, 2. Curator of 

 Academy, 710. Member of Council, 

 711. 



Uhler, Philip R., announcement of 

 death of, 580. 



Vanatta, E. G. Descriptions of new 

 species of marine shells (Plate II), 

 22, 81. Assistant to Curators, 711. 



Van Sickle, W. H., on labels for Micro- 

 scopic slides (no abstract), 583. 



Vaux, George, Jr., Committee on 

 Finance, 1. Committee on Library, 

 2. Solicitor of Academy, 2. Con- 

 servator of Mineralogical and Geo- 



logical Section, 708. Treasurer of 

 Academy, 710. Member 6i Council, 

 711. 



Wallace, Alfred Russell, announcement 

 of death of, 617. 



Wardle, H. Newell, on the miniature 

 temples and temple pjTamids of the 

 ancient Mexicans (no abstract), 219. 

 Assistant in archaeology, 711. 



Weidman, F. D. A study of the 

 metazoan parasites found in the 

 Philadelphia Zoological Garden 

 (Plate IV), 2, 81, 126. 



Wenzel, Henry W., Vice-Director of 

 Entomological Section, 706. 



Wherry, Edgar T. North border 

 relations of the Triassic in Pennsyl- 

 vania (Plate III), 81, 114. On the 

 Twelfth International Geological 

 Congress (no abstract), 617. 



Willcox, Jos., Custodian of Isaac Lea 

 Collections, 2. 



Wilde, Furman S., Assistant in Library, 

 711. 



Williamson, Charles S., Recorder of 

 Botanical Section, 708. 



Winsor, James D., Committee on 

 Finance, 1. 



49 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



PLATE XVII. 



BARBOUR : DREPANODON EATONII, D. ERDISII. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



PLATE XVIII. 



A. P. BROWN: GEOLOGY OF ANTIGUA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



A. P. BROWN: GEOLOGY OF ANTIGUA, 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



PLATE XX. 



J^^" 







A. P. BROWN, GEOLOGY OF ANTIGUA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



PLATE XXI. 



BAKER: MOLLUSKS OF BRAZIL, 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19-13. 



PLATE XXII. 



BAKER: MOLLUSKS OF BRAZIL. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



PLATE XXIII. 



BAKER: MOLLUSKS OF BRAZIL. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



PLATE XXIV. 



BAKER: MOLLUSKS OF BRAZIL. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHlLA. 1913. 



PLATE XXV. 



BAKER: MOLLUSKS OF BRAZIL. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHlLA. 1913. 



PLATE XXVI. 



BAKER: MOLLUSKS OF BRAZIL. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



PLATE XXVII. 



BAKER: MOLLUSKS OF BRAZIL. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191:^. 



PLATE XXVIII. 



BANKS: COSTA RICA ARACHNIDA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



PLATE XXIX. 



BANKS: COSTA RICA ARACHNIDA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



PLATE XXX. 



BANKS: COSTA RICA ARACHNIDA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1913. 



PLATE XXXI. 



HEATH: ANOSTOMA DEPRESSUM. TOMIGERUS CLAUSUS. 







lilH IflSE E 





