



PROCEEDINGS 



Academy of Natural Sciences 



PHILADELPHIA 



VOLUME LX 



1908 



philadelphia : 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1908-1 909 




The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



Mar( H 3, 1909. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1908 have been 

 mailed as follows : — 



Pages 1-32 mailed April 



33-64 



65-112, 129-144.. 

 113-128, 14o-l.=)6 



157-364 



365-412 



413-444 



445-492 



493-508 



509-540...! 



541-588 



589-624 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D., 



Recording Secretary. 



PUBLICATION committee: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., ex-officio. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



7/ to 




CONTENTS, 



For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



BoYER, Charles S. A new species of Cymatopleiira (Plate 



XXVIII), " 554 



Brown, Arthur Erwin, 8c.D. Generic types of Nearcfic Rep- 



tilia and Amphibia, 112 



Calvert, Philip P., Ph.D. The composition and ecological 



relations of the Odonate Fauna of ^Mexico and Central 



America (Plate XXVI), 460 



Chainiberlix, Ralph V. Animal names and anatomical terms of 



the Goshute Indians, 73 



Revision of North American Spiders of the Family Lycosidse 



(Plates VIII-XXIII), 158 



Colton, Harold Sellers. How Fulgur and Sycotypiis eat 



Oysters, Mussels and Clams (Plates I-V), .... 3 

 Some effects of environment on the growth of Limna^a colu- 

 mella Say, ' 410 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on Sharks, 52 



A synopsis of the Cyprinidai of Pennsylvania (Plate XX^' II), 517 

 Harshberger, John W., Ph.D. The directive influence of Fight 



on the growth of Forest I^lants (Plates XXIA', XX^') , . 449 

 IsHiKAWA, Chiyomatsu, Ph.D. Description of a new species of 



Scjualoid Shark from Japan, 71 



Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr.,\ Ph.D. Remarks on Prof. 



Chamberlin's revision of North American Lycosidse, . 513 

 ^looRE, J. Percy. Some Polychsetous Annelids of the Northern 



Pacific Coast of North America. 321 



Pilsbry, Henry A., Sc.D. Notes on Succinea ovalis Sa}- and 



S.obliqua Say (Plate VII), 45 



On the classification of Scalpelliform Barnacles, .... 104 

 iii 




IV J CONTENT.S. 



A comparison of the Land-Snail Fauna of Korea with the 



Faunas of Japan and China, 452 



On the teeth of Hawaiian species of Hehces, 560 



Clausihidse of the Japanese Empire, XII (Plates XXX, 



XXXI, XXXII), 561 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., Sc.D., and Y. Hirase. Xew Land and 



Fresh-water Mollusca of the Japanese Empire, ... 31 



New Land Shells of the Chinese Empire — I, 37 



New Land Mollusca of the Japanese Empire, 586 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., and E. G. Yanatta. Notes on Polinices 

 didyma, with description of a new Australian species 



(Plate XXIX), 555 



Rehn, James A. G. Acrididae (Orthoptera) from Sao Paulo, 

 Brazil, with descriptions of one new genus and three 



new species, 12 



Rehn, James A. G., and IMorgan Hebard. An Orthoptero- 

 logical Reconnoissance of the Southwestern United 



States. Part I : Arizona, 365 



Snyder, John Otterbein. Description of TrachA^^terus sclen- 

 iris, a new species of Ribbon-Fish from Monterey Bay, 



California, 319 



Stone, Witmer. ^lethods of recording and utilizing Bird- 

 Migration Data, 128 



Recent additions to our knowledge of the Flora of Southern 



New Jersey, -157 



A review of the Genus Piaya Lesson, 492 



True, Frederick W. Remarks on the fossil Cetacean Rha1> 



dosteus latiradax Cope (Plate YI), 24 



Wellman, F. Creighton, M.D. On the Meloida? of Angola, . . 600 

 Wellman, F. Creighton, M.D., and Walther Horn, M.D. On 



the Cicindehnpe of Angola, 505 



Young, Robert T. Notes on the distribution of Colorado 

 Mammals, with description of a new species of Bat 

 (Eptesicus pallidus) from Boulder, ....... 403 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1908. 



January 7. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M.D., in the Chair. 

 One hundred and six persons present. 



The Hayden Memorial Geological ^ledaP was presented to Charles 

 D. Walcott, LL.D. The presentation address was made by Dr. 

 Persifor Frazer and responded to by the recipient of the award. A 

 reception was tendered Dr. Walcott at the close of the formal pro- 

 ceedings. 



The following Standing Committees were appointed by the Council 

 to serve during the ensuing year : 



Finance. — John Cadwalader, Edwin S. Dixon, Effingham B. 

 !\Iorris, Horatio C. Wood, M.D., and George Vaux, Jr., Treasurer. 



Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Hemy A, Pilsbry, Sc.D,, 

 Witmer Stone, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Edward J. Nolan, M.D., 

 Editor and Treasurer. 



Library.— Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, Hemy Tucker, M.D., Thomas 

 Biddle, M.D., Benjamin Sharp, M.D., and George Vaux, Jr. 



' For an illvistration of the remodelled Hayden Medal see Report of Recording 

 Secretary, Proceedings, 1907, p. 564. 

 I 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Instruction.— Benjamin Smith Lyman, Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Charles Morris, Phihp P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Dr. C. Newlin Peirce. 



Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Arthur E. Brown, Sc.D., 

 Thos. H. Fenton, M.D., John Cadwalader and Chas. B. Penrose, M.D. 



The President is, ex officio, a member of all Standing Committees. 



January 21, 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Ninety-seven persons present. 



The deaths of Jacob Reese, ]\Iarch 25, 1907, and of ]\Iiss Adeline 

 Try on, January 20, 1908, members, were reported. 



Dr. Casey A. Wood made an illustrated communication on the eyes 

 and eyesight of birds. (No abstract.) 



Dr. William J. Sinclair was elected a member. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




1908.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



HOW FTJLGUR AND 8YC0TYPUS EAT OYSTERS, MUSSELS AND CLAMS. 

 BY HAROLD SELLERS COLTON. 



Since observations on the habits of Prosobranch moUusks are 

 fragmentary and few, I embraced an opportunity of studying Fulgur 

 carica, Fulgur perversa and Sycotypus canaliculatus under conditions 

 as nearly natural as one can hope to have in a laboratorj^ located 

 far from the sea. j\Iost of the observations were carried out in the 

 Vivarium of the University of Pennsylvania; these were supplemented 

 by studies on fresh material under more natural conditions at the 

 Fisheries Laboratory at Woods Hole.^ 



The individuals studied in Philadelphia had been in captivity a long 

 time. All had been there a year and many several 3^ears. The Fulgur 

 carica had come from Woods Hole and the Jersey coast. F. perversa 

 I had brought up from Clearwater, Florida, two years and a half 

 before. Of these latter none had died a natural death during that 

 time. 



The salt water aquarium in which they were confined was about five 

 feet wide and eleven feet long. There was three feet of water over the 

 greater part, but a shallow beach at one end. 



On the beach I was accustomed to place oysters that I kept as a 

 stock to feed the animals in this tank. Every week I chopped up an 

 oyster or two and distributed the juice and fragments all over the tank. 

 This stimulated the Fulgurs and Sycotypi to activity and to make 

 frequent raids on the Hving oysters on the beach. This led me to 

 inquire into the kind of food, the amount of food, and method of 

 feeding of these gasteropods. 



There is but one actual observation on the manner of feeding of these 

 mollusks that I have been able to discover. Stimpson (1860), in 

 speaking of Sycotypus, said: "In eating (it) applies end of proboscis 

 to the clam's foot, and with a sudden jerk of the lingual ribbon inward 

 and sidelong takes a strip of flesh." 



The "impression" that most persons hold with reference to the 

 manner of eating and the habits of the Sycotypus and Fulgur is expressed 

 by Herrick (1906) : " Since this animal is a great pest to the oystermen 

 and clam-diggers, .... it is of some interest .... to know .... 



' I am deeply indebted to the ITnited States Commissioner of Fisheries for the 

 use of a table at the Woods Hole Laboratory, to Dr. F. B. Sumner, the Director, 

 for many favors, and particularly Dr. E. G. Conklin for reading the manuscript 

 of this paper and for many helpful suggestions. 




4 raOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



how this gasteropod accomplishes its destructive work of boring 

 through the shells of oysters and clams and rasping out their soft 

 contents by means of the file-like tongue." Although this is in the 

 introduction, he does not mention again how Sycotypus bores through 

 shells and had only the "impression" that they did bore. 



Ingersoll (1884) has given the most detailed description of the food 

 and the manner of taking it that I have been able to discover. "The 

 food of the conch {Fulgur or Sycotypus)," says he, "being mainly the 

 flesh of other mollusks, its method of killing them is one of brute 

 strength, since it is unprovided with the silicious, file-like tongue by 

 means of which the small drills set at naught the shelly armor of their 

 victims. The conch is a greater savage than that. Seizing upon the 

 unfortunate oyster, unable to run away, he envelops its shell in the 

 concave under surface of his foot, and by just such muscular action 

 as you would employ in grasping an object in the palm of your fist, 

 crushes the shell into fragments and feasts at leisure on the flesh thvis 

 exposed. One planter thought one Winkle {Fulgur and Sycotypus) 

 was capable of killing a bushel of oysters in a single hour. They do 

 not confine themselves to oysters altogether, of course; any mollusk 

 or other animal sluggish or weak enough to be broken up suffers from 

 their predacity. I was told in New Jersey by an intelligent man that a 

 conch would even pull a razor clam out of its burrow and devour it. If 

 this be true the soft shell clam also falls a victim to the same marauder. 

 The Quahog is generally safe." 



I quote this because my observations and experiments unfortu- 

 nately contradict so many of these interesting statements. 



My experiments as to the kind of food were restricted to live Lamelli- 

 branchs, because I never was able to observe them eat chopped oyster 

 or chopped meat. Chopped oyster certainly stimulates them and 

 perhaps they will eat it. I cannot tell. Table I gives the results of 

 my studies at Woods Hole and Philadelphia, (x) indicates that the 

 particular bivalve was fed to the conch and eaten; (o) indicates that 

 it was fed to the conch and not eaten ; and (-) means that the particular 

 form was not supplied with the indicated food. 



Table I. 

 Sycotypus. F. carica. F. perversa. 



Mya X X - 



Venus x x 



Unsis - X - 



Modiola x - 



Mytilus X X - 



Ostrea.. .. x x x 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



At Woods Hole Sycotypus and F. carica were found only at places 

 where Ensis (razor clams) were abundant. I could not find them 

 on any other beach. Although I did not observe Sycotypus eating 

 Ensis, I think there is every reason to suppose that they do. 



The experiments on the amount of food are too few to be definite. 

 The results, such as they are, are expressed in Table II. (x) indicates 

 present but not eaten, (o) indicates not present. 



Table II. 



No. Conch. Days. Ostrea. Mya. Venus. Mytilus. Modiola. 



4 Sycotypus 10 x 13 x 7 x 



4 F. carica 10 x x 2 3 1 



3 F. perversa 42 7 



4 F. carica 42 



2 Sycotypus 42 4 



1 Sycotypus 2 4 



Very often one individual would eat a couple of clams or 03"sters in a 

 day, but as a rule the meals were far apart. 



Notwithstanding most persons' "impressions," it is highly improbable 

 that these mollusks ever bore through Lamellibranch shells. I have 

 never seen a hole that would fit their proboscis, nor does the wearing 

 of the teeth on the odontophore indicate that they were worn down 

 against a hard substance. Plate I, figs. 3-4 show the median tooth 

 of Urosalphinx which bores rapidly through the shells of mussels. The 

 former shows a tooth before being worn and the latter a tooth worn 

 down. These teeth compared with a similar series, Plate I, figs. 1 and 

 2, showing F. carica, suggest that there are two methods of wear. In 

 Urosalphinx the teeth are worn evenly off so that a straight line will 

 join the tops. The large teeth are worn level with the short ones. In 

 Fidgiir, however, the teeth are broken off in almost any way. Exami- 

 nations of the radulse of Nassa ohsoleta, Nassa trivittata, Lunatia and 

 Purpura lapillus seem to substantiate the view. But with the excep- 

 tion of Purpura and perhaps Nassa ohsoleta, too little is known how 

 they take their food to render any general conclusions tenable. In the 

 case of these last two, Purpura, which has a radula worn like Urosal- 

 phinx, has been observed to bore (Wilcox, 1905) ; and A^assa, with wear 

 such as I have described for Fulgur, has never been seen to bore, but 

 will crawl between the valves of Mya, wedging the valves apart, and 

 devour the flesh (Dimon, 1905). 



The other method of attack (I.ngersoll, 1884) is by breaking the 

 shell. As described by Ingersoll this is utterly impossible. However, 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



both F. perversa and F. carica do injure the shell of Venus mercenaria 

 (Quahog); and, although they leave marks on the shell of Mytilus 

 (mussel) and perhaps Ostrea, the shell of Mya (soft shell clam) is left 

 without a scratch. 



In the case of Sycotypus eating oysters, I have been able to watch 

 the whole process from the beginning to the end without interruption, 

 so I will take this as my first example. It will be an account of the 

 behavior of a single individual. 



The Sycotypus had not been fed for a month or so and was buried in 

 the gravel. To stimulate, I added some very finely chopped-up oyster 

 to the aquarium. When it started to crawl out of the gravel, a few 

 minutes after I added the oyster juice, I placed some live oysters in the 

 aquarium with it. It attacked one of the oysters five minutes after I 

 placed them with it. Fifty minutes afterward it left the empty shell. 

 Going a foot to another oyster, it began to attack it twenty minutes 

 after it left the first one. 



The Sycotypus crawled on top of the oyster, which closed its valves. 

 The conch waited two minutes when the oyster opened its valves 

 (Plate II, fig. 7). Rotating its shell on the axis of the columella 

 through an angle of 70°, it thrust its own shell between the valves of 

 the oyster and introduced its proboscis between the shells (Plate II, 

 fig. 8). Forty minutes later it left the empty shell. 



Sycotypus does not wedge the shells of Mya apart, because it can get 

 at the soft parts without doing so, since the valves gap slightly (Plates 

 II and III, figs. 11, 12). To test this I introduced an oyster that 

 had had three-quarters of an inch broken from the margins of both 

 valves on the end away from the hinge so that the valves appeared to 

 gap. I found that Sycotypus attacked this one in the same manner 

 as it attacked Mya and did not wedge the .shells apart (Plate I, fig. 6). 



Fulgur eating Venus is a much more complicated case. The conch 

 {Fulgur perversa or F. carica) grasps the Venus in the hollow of its 

 foot (Plate IV, fig. 13), bringing the margin of the Veiius shell against 

 its own shell margin. B}^ contracting the columellar muscle it forces 

 the margins of the shells together, which results in a small fragment 

 being chipped from the shell of Venus. This is repeated many times 

 and, finally, the crack between the valves is enlarged to a width of 

 3 mm. or more (text fig.). 



The proboscis is normally about 5 mm. to 8 mm. in diameter 

 There are three ways in which it may get at the animal. First, it may 

 flatten out its proboscis so that it will go through the crack; secondly, 

 it may pour in a secretion between the valves which kills the clam. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



and, thirdly, it may wedge its shell between the valves of the Venus. 

 By contracting its coliimellar muscle it may actually wedge the valves 

 apart. Venus is much more sensitive to mechanical stimuli than is 

 Ostrea. Venus never opens its valves of itseK when it is in the grasp 

 of a Fulgur, while Ostrea, after the first shock, opens wide its valves as 

 if no danger were near. 



Fulgur and Sycotypus often break their own shell when opening 

 oysters and clams, and this accounts no doubt for the irregular growth 

 lines seen on their shells. 



This method of inserting the margin of a gasteropod between the 

 valves, of a Lamellibranch has been noticed before. Francois (1890) 



Quahog shell clipped by Fulgur. 



briefly reports that Murex fortispinna has a special tooth on the margin 

 of its aperture for the purpose of inserting between the valves of Area, 

 It may be that this manner of attacking the soft parts of bivalves is a 

 very common habit of Prosobranch mollusks. 



All writers recognize Fulgur and Sycotypus as pests to the oyster men. 

 How many oysters will be destroyed will depend on the average num- 

 ber eaten in a given time. Although I have found them to eat two 

 oysters one day and two the next, there follows a long rest period 

 where the individual remains buried in the sand — sometimes for days, 

 sometimes for months. 



Notwithstanding that Ingersoll (1884) says, "It is needless to say 

 that they do not burrow at all,"- 1 find that they are buried about 65 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



per cent, of the time, the tip end of the black siphon alone projecting 

 above the sand — 5 mm. — a most inconspicuous object. 



The following table gives the records of the activity of nine individuals 

 for a period of six weeks. It indicates the periods of rest and activity 

 expressed in days. Plate V shows these periods of rest and activity 

 distributed in space. 



Table III. 



Gasteropod. Days active. Days buried. Days quiet. Days of food. 



Sycotypus No. 2 21 16 3 2 



No. 10 2 38 1 



F, carica No. 3 9 25 6 



No. 4 5 34 1 



No. 5 11 14 



No. 6 10 4 26 



F. perversa No. 1 7 29 4 1 



No. 7 10 30 2 



No. 8 7 33 1 



These experiments were carried on in Philadelphia and so w^ere not 

 under perfectly natural conditions. They show how far apart the meal 

 times are. During these experiments F. carica never ate. If these 

 observations reflect at all the normal habits of the individual, they can- 

 not, I think, be a very serious oyster pest. 



Sycotypus and Fulgur do not always react to their food in the same 

 manner, but they react to different Lamellibranchs in a way best 

 suited to getting at the soft parts of the animals. Therefore the 

 behavior is adaptive (Jennings, 1906, 1907). 



Another question is, are these organisms intelligent? Jennings 

 (1906) defines intelligence as a modification of behavior in accordance 

 with experience. The usual way to test this is by habit formation 

 (Jennings, 1907). "(1) The organism must be presented with a 

 problem to be solved. (2) The organism must 'try' to solve the 

 problem in several different ways. (3) It must be able to solve the 

 problem in but one or a few ways." 



In accordance with these criteria I presented the mollusks with a 

 simple maze problem with oysters as "bait." Although without food 

 for a week, they buried themselves in the sand and did not move 

 again. At the end of two weeks I discontinued the experiment. To 

 show the normal behavior of these animals I plotted their movements 

 for a period of six Aveeks. This gave no results except those embodied 

 in the earlier part of this paper. The diagrams show, however, how 

 very sluggish these mollusks are. It is probably impossible by any of 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



the ordinary methods to determine the intelhgence of Sycotypiis and 

 Fulgur. The solution of this problem awaits some ingenious future 

 investigator. 



Summary. 



1. Fulgur and Sycotypus are very hardy and hve well in caiotivity. 



2. Fulgur probably attacks any Lamellibranch. 



3. Sycotypus will attack any except Venus. 



4. Oysters are eaten in less than an hour. Clams in from an hour 

 to an hour and a half. Quahogs from seven hours to three days. 



5. They do not bore shells with the radula. 



6. They open shells of oysters by wedging their own shell between 

 the valves, and tear out the flesh with their radula. They probably 

 treat Quahogs in the same way. 



7. Some shells are injured in the process, depending on the amount 

 of gap and the sensitiveness of the organism to mechanical stimuli. 



8. Their meals are far between. 



9. They spend their time between meals buried in the sand. 



10. They may not be as serious a pest to the oj^stermen as previously 

 reported. 



11. Their behavior is adaptive. As yet we have no proof that these 

 animals are intelligent. 



Literature. 



1S95. Cooke. Cambridge Xat Hist., Vol. Ill, p. 60. 



1905. DiMON, A. C. Cold Spring Harbor Monographs, V, pp. 31-36. 

 1890. Francois. Arch. E.rp.G., (2), IX,p. 2-0). 



1870. Gould. Invertebrata of Mass., 2d. ed., bj'^ W. G. Binney. 



1906. Herrick, J. C. jMeclianism of the Odontophoral apparatus in Sycotypus 

 canaliculatus, -tHK .Vo^, Vol. XL, p. 707. 



1884. Ingersoll, E. Fisheries Industries of the U. S., Section I, p. 694. 



1906. Jennings, H. S. Behavior of the Lower Organisms, p. 334. 



1907. Jennings, H. S. Behavior of the Starfish Asterias forreri, U. of Cal. Pub. 

 in Zool, Vol. IV, No. 2, p. 155. 



1860. Stimpson. Check List, p. 6. 



1882. Tryon, G. W. Structural and Systematic Conchology, p. 137. 



1905. Wilcox, M. A. Biology of Acmsea testudinahs. Am. Nat., May, 1905, 



p. 325. 

 r 



Description of Plates I-V. 



Figs. 1 and 2 were drawn with the aid of a camera lucida and magnified about 72 

 diameters. 



Figs. 3 and 4 were drawn with a camera lucida and magnified about 270 times. 



The succeeding figures were drawn free-hand from living animals with the 

 exception of figs. 7 and 8, which are semi-diagrammatic. They are f natural size. 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Plate I. — Fig. 1. — Median tooth of Fulgur carica (unused). 

 Fig. 2. — ^Aledian tooth of Fulgur carica (worn). 

 Fig. 3. — Median tooth of Urosaiphinx (unworn). 

 Fig. 4. — Median tooth of Urosaiphinx (worn). 

 Fig. 5. Sycolypus eating an oyster viewed from above. 



Fig. 6. — Sycotypus eating an oyster viewed from side. Tlie oyster had had 

 the end toward the conch broken for about f inch. 



Plate II. — Fig. 7. — Sycotypus on top of oyster (semi-diagrammatic). 



Fig. 8. — The same a few seconds afterward, showing the margin of the Sycoty- 

 pus shell wedging apart the shells of the oyster. 

 Fig. 9. — Sycotypus wedging apart the valves of an oyster. 



Plate III. — Fig. 10. — Sycotypus in search of food. 

 Fig. 11. — Sycotypus eating Mya. 



Plate IV. — Fig. 12. — Sycotypus eating Mya. 



Fig. 13. — F. carica eating Venus, showing how it holds the shell. 



Plate V. — Diagrams illustrating the wanderings of F. perversa, F. carica and S. 

 canaliculatus during a period of six weeks. Each square of the diagram 

 represents one square foot. Each of the diagrams represent an aquarium 

 of salt water five feet by eleven feet. The plottings w^ere made daily. 

 The Roman numerals indicate the identification number of the in- 

 dividual welks. Arabic numerals indicate days at one spot, (o) 

 means an oyster eaten. (B) indicates that the indiAidual was buried. 




1908.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



February 4. 

 Dr. William P. Wilson in the Chair. 



Thirty persons present. 



The Pubhcation Committee reported the reception of a paper 

 entitled "Acrididse (Orthoptera) from Sao Paulo, Brazil, with 

 ■descriptions of one New Genus and three New Species," by James A, G. 

 Rehn (January 27). 



WiTMER Stone made a communication on the geographical distri- 

 bution of plants and animals in Southern New Jerse3^ (No abstract.) 



February 18. 

 Arthur Erwin Brow^n, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Ninety persons present. 



The reception of a paper entitled "Remarks on the Fossil Cetacean 

 Rhabdosteus latiradix Cope," by Frederick W. True (February 18), 

 was reported by the Publication Committee. 



Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., made a communication on the general 

 results of nine years' study of the dragon-flies of Mexico and Central 

 America for the Biologia Centrali Americana. (No abstract.) 



Burton Chance, M.D., was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be published : ^ 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. 



ACRIDID^ (ORTHOPTERA) FROM SAO PAULO, BRAZIL, WITH DESCRIPTIONS 

 OF ONE NEW GENUS AND THREE NEW SPECIES. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



The material treated in the following paper represents the Pyrgoinor- 

 phinse and Locustinae of a collection of Orthoptera made at several 

 localities in the State of Sao Paulo, Brazil, by Mr. Adolph Hempel, and 

 presented to the Academy by the author. 



The Acridinse belonging to this collection has already been treated, 

 in conjunction with other South American material of that subfamily,, 

 in a paper in these Proceedings.^ 



PYRGOMORPHIN.E. 

 OMMEXECHA Serville. 

 Ommexecha servillei Blanchard. 



18.37. Ommexecha Servillei Blanchard, Ann. Soc. Entom. France, V, p. 

 613, PI. XXII, figs, 2 and 3. [Pro\ance of Corriente.s, Argentina.] 



Sao Paulo. September 13 and 19, 1900. (Hempel.) Three c7, 

 three 9 . 



Reboucas. September 26, 1900. (Hempel.) One c?, one 9. 



Previous records for this species are Porto Allegre, Rio Grande do 

 Sul (Karsch), Sierra Geral, Santa Catharina (Karsch), Sao Paulo 

 (Bruner), Matto Grosso (Karsch), Brazil, Asuncion and San Bernardino. 

 Paraguay (Bruner). 



LOCUSTIN.E. 



< TROPINOTUS Serville. 



Tropinotus affinis Bruner. 



1906. Tropinotus affinis Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 646. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Jundiahy. April 17, 1898; September 10, 1899. (Schrottky.) 

 Two d', two 9. 



The bowed lateral carina3 of the pronotum appear to be the chief 

 diagnostic character of this species, unless this is also shared b}^ T. 

 scabripes Stal, which has not been examined. 



> Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 10-50. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHTA. 13 



EL^IOCHLOEA St^l. 

 Elaeochlora arcuata n. sp. 



Types: d and 9 ; Jundiahy, State of Sao Paulo, Brazil. March 1, 

 1899 (d'). (Schrottky.) [A. N. S. Phila.] 



This peculiar species belongs to the section of the genus containing 

 E. trilineata and viridicata (Serville) and humilis and pulchella Rehn, 

 as well as the rather aberrant picticollis (Gerstaecker). It is readily 

 separated from any of these species by the well elevated and longi- 

 tudinally arcuate median carina of the pronotum, the tubercles of the 

 pronotum also being blunter and fewer than in the allied species. 

 The male can also be immediately separated from the above species, 

 except picticollis, by the short acute tegmina. 



Size rather large; form of the female quite robust, of the male slen- 



Fig. \,—ElaoMora arcuata n. sp. Lateral view of male type. (X 2h.) 



derer. Head with the occiput rounded ; fastigium subhorizontal, very 

 slightly excavated, longer than broad, the apex slightly acute-angulate, 

 the apical margins slightly arcuate in the male; angle of the fastigium 

 when viewed from the lateral aspect narrowly rounded into the moder- 

 ately (9) or considerably (d") retreating face; frontal costa very 

 much narrowed at its junction with the fastigium, slightly but regu- 

 larly expanding ventrad to the clypeus, sulcate except in the very 

 narrow dorsal portion; eyes of the male elhptical, oval, of the female 

 ovate; antennee not complete. Pronotum rugoso-punctate, with the 

 prozona tectate, the metazona with the disk flattened and the carina 

 considerably elevated, the outline of the carina when viewed from 

 the lateral aspect being very slightly arcuate in the female, very con- 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



siderably so in the male; cephalic margin obtuse-angulate, slightly 

 more marked in the male than in the female; caudal angle aciite- 

 angulate, the apex sharp and the margins slightly arcuato-emarginate ; 

 lateral shoulders marked on the metazona, a continuation descending 

 obliquely ventro-cephalad on the prozonal portion of the lateral lobes 

 prozona of the disk with accessory lateral shoulders, which are less 

 marked than the primary ones, converging from the principal trans- 

 verse sulcus to the cephalic margin, all the lateral shoulders more 

 marked in the male than in the female ; transverse sulci three in number, 

 all cutting the median ridge, but only the caudal one doing so deeply; 

 greatest median width of the pronotal disk contained about twice 

 in the length; lateral lobes of the pronotum with the ventral margin 

 obtuse-angulate. Tegmina of the male exceeding the length of the 

 pronotum by about half the length of the head, of the female about 

 equal to the length of the metazona and half of the prozona ; shape of 

 the male tegmina sublanceolate, of the female tegmina sub-rhomboid, 

 the greatest width of the male tegmina contained two and a half 

 times in their length, that of the female tegmina contained once and 

 two-thirds in their length. Wings much smaller than the tegmina, 

 not functional in either sex. Prosternal spine erect, conical; inter- 

 space between the mesosternal lobes very slightly transverse, the 

 angles of the lobes broadly rounded; interspace between the meta- 

 sternal lobes distinctly arcuate transverse. Abdomen compressed 

 in both sexes, distinctly carinate dorsad in the male; supra-anal 

 plate of the male acute- angulate, distinctly sulcate mesad, the sulcus 

 narrowed meso-caudad ; cerci of the male very small, simple, styliform ; 

 subgenital plate compressed, produced, rostrate, the apex elevated and 

 slender. Cephalic and median Hmbs moderately robust in the male, 

 rather weak in the female. Caudal femora about one and one-third 

 (9) or one and two-thirds (d^) the length of the pronotum, rather 

 slender, tapering, no appreciable pregenicular constriction, dorso- 

 median carina sparsely serrato-dentate, pattern of the pagina rather 

 irregular and not deeply impressed; caudal tibiae about equal to the 

 femora in length, armed on the external margin with ten to twelve 

 spines, on the internal with nine to ten spines, those of the internal 

 margin longer than those on the external; tarsi distinctly depressed. 



General color olive-green becoming brownish on some areas and 

 brighter green on others, d^. Face dull oil green, gense and occiput 

 of the general color aside from a dull broad subequal medio-longitudinal 

 bar of russet on the vertex and occiput, bordered laterad by poorly 

 defined blackish areas; eyes burnt umber. Pronotum veiy dull olive- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



green dorsad, the median carina and angles marked obscurely with 

 burnt sienna; lateral lobes with considerable parrot green mesad, the 

 cephalic and ventral margins narrowly and the caudal margins rather 

 broadly margined with ochraceous-buff, the marginal color blending 

 into the general color. Tegmina blackish, broadl}^ margined, except 

 toward the apex where the paler color narrows until completely absent 

 at the verj^ apex, with ochraceous-buff, principal veins of the median 

 portion of the tegmina apple green. Limbs distinctly brownish, the 

 caudal tibiae and tarsi vinaceous-cinnamon, tibial spines wholly black 

 on the internal margin, tipped with black on the external margin. 9 . 

 Head bice-green with a very pale ochraceous-buff occipital and f astigial 

 band as in the male, which band, however, has the lateral defining 

 bars poorly indicated; eyes vandyke brown; antennae pansy purple 

 with the proximal joint of the color of the head. Pronotum generally 

 more oil green than olive-green; median carina marked with a bar of 

 madder brown which narrows caudad and is poorly outlined cephalad; 

 ventral and caudal margins of the lateral lobes with very faint and 

 poorly defined light margins. Tegmina oil green with a pale margin 

 similar to the male, in addition to which the green area is outlined by 

 a heavy pencilling of black, quite distinct on all but the ventro-caudal 

 portion, while the sutural margin has a very fine black edging to its 

 proximal half; principal veins of the green area apple green. Limbs 

 oil green tending toward apple green, caudal tarsi marked with maroon 

 purple dorsad, caudal tibiae with the spines as in the male. 



Measurements. 



d ? 



Length of body, 29.2 mm. 52 mm. 



Length of pronotum, ILl " 18.6 " 



Median width of disk of pronotum, .... 5.5 " 8.2 " 



Length of tegmen, 12.8 " 13.8 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 5.4 '' 8 " 



Length of caudal femur, 17.9 " 24.2 " 



A paratypic female has also l^een examined. It differs from the 

 female type only in the tegmina being more produced and nearer to 

 the type seen in the male. 



CHROMACRIS Walker. 

 Chromacris miles (Drury). 



Jundiahy. (Schrottky). One 6^. 



This individual has the lighter color of the wings rich yellow. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Chromacris nuptialis (Gerstaecker). 



1873. Romalea nuptialis Gerstaecker, Stett. Entom. Zeit., XXXIV, p. 

 185. [Salto Grande,^ Brazil.] 



Jimdiahy. January 20, 1899 (9). (Schrottky.) One d", one 9. 



The markings of the tegminal veins in this species remind one of the 



similar pattern noticed in the otherwise very different C. icterus. 



ZONIOPODA St&l. 

 Zoniopoda tarsata (Serville). 



Jmidiahy. January 28, 1899. (Schrottky.) One d^. 



This specimen agrees fully with the original description and two 

 Rio Grande do Sul specimens determined as tarsata, received from 

 the late Dr. Saussure. 



LEPTYSMA St&l. 



Leptysma gracilis Bruner.s 



1906. [Leptysma] gracilis Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 658. 

 [Sao Paulo, Brazil.] 



Sao Paulo. September 5-19, 1900. (Hempel.) Six d, four 9 . 



This series shows an appreciable amount of variation in the form 



of the fastigium, some having the angle more acute than others. 



Leptysma filiformis (Serville). 



Sao Paulo. September 1 and 7, 1900. (Hempel.) Three 9 . 



PARACOKNOPS Giglio-Tos. 



Paracornops longipenne (De Geer)? 



1773. Acrydium longipenne DeGeer, Mem. d'Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 501, PI. 42, 

 fig. 9. [Surinam.] 



Sao Paulo. September 14, 1900. (Hempel.) Five d^, one 9 . 



We have followed Bruner^ in considering this form the same as 

 DeGeer's species, the correctness of which association can be deter- 

 mined definitely only by the examination of Surinam material. 



The specimens in hand are brownish instead of greenish as described 

 by DeGeer, but as far as can be determined from his figure they do not 

 differ structurally, and in dimensions they fully agree with those given 

 by him. 



^ One of two localities, Salto Grande, Minas Geraes or Salto Grande, Sao Paulo, 

 probablj' tlie latter. 



3 The five females from Sapucay, Paraguay, recorded by the author as L. 

 filiformis {Proc. Acad. Nat. Set. Phila., 1907, p. 180) are found on re-examination 

 to be this species. The absence of male individuals accounts for the error in 

 >determination. 



■'Froc. V. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 662. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



OMALOTETTIX Bruner. 

 Omalotettix signatipes Bruner. 



Sao Paulo. September 1 to 14, 1900. (Hempel.) Nine 9 . 



These specimens are uniformly, though slightly, smaller than 

 Chapada, Brazil, and Sapucay, Paraguay, females, but in no other 

 respect do they appear to differ from topotypes. 



H0MAL0SAPARUS6 n. gen. 



A member of the Xiphiolce and related to Saparus Giglio-Tos and 

 Xiphiola Bolivar, differing from the former in the less compressed 

 general form, in the form of the frontal costa, the less produced head, 

 the less compressed pronotum, the more rounded tegmina, the more 

 robust limbs and the produced subgenital plate ; differing from Xiphiola 

 n the more compressed form, in the absence of distinct lateral angles 

 to the pronotum, the absence of any costal projection between the 

 antennae, in the broader tegmina, in the narrower interspace between the 

 mesosternal lobes and in the produced subgenital plate and slender cerci. 



Vertex ascending; fastigium rectangulate ; frontal costa not project- 

 ing between the antennae, becoming obsolete ventrad of the ocellus; 

 face declivent; eyes acute ovoid, hardly projecting; antennae heavy, 

 depressed, very slightly expanded proximad. Pronotum rugoso-punc- 

 tate; dorsal transverse sulci three in number; median carina distinct; 

 caudal angle of the disk subrectangulate; lateral angles without 

 carinas. Tegmina exceeding the apex of the abdomen, rather broad, 

 greatest width in the distal third ; intercalary vein absent. Prosternal 

 spine erect, slender, apex blunt; interspace between the mesosternal 

 lobes very distinctly longer than broad ; interspace between the meta- 

 sternal lobes very narrow. Subgenital plate of the male produced, 

 acuminate, keeled. Caudal femora moderately inflated; caudal tibiae 

 with nine spines on the lateral margins. 



Type. — H. canonicus n. sp. 



Homalosaparus canonicus n. sp. 



Type: 6"; Sao Paulo, Brazil. September 13, 1900. (Hempel.) 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Size medium; form distinctly compressed ; surface ruguloso-punctate. 

 Head with the occiput regularly ascending to the interocular region 

 which, with the fastigium, is subhorizontal; interocular region slightly 

 more than twice the wddth of the interantennal portion of the frontal 

 costa; fastigium broadly trigonal, the apex with a short, distinct, 

 median, longitudinal sulcus; angle of the fastigium and vertex, when 

 seen from the lateral aspect, rounded rectangulate, the facial line being 



5 'OfiaTiOQ, resembling, and Saparus, a generic name. 

 2 




18 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb. 



subperpendicular to a short distance ventrad of the insertion of the 

 antennae, then considerably declivent; lateral foveolse indistinct, 

 punctate; frontal costa slightly constricted dorsad and obsolete from 

 a point ventrad of the ocellus where it is slightly narrowed, entire 

 length impresso-punctate; eyes acute dorsad, strongly elongate-ovoid 



Fig. 2. — Homalosaparus canonicus n. gen. and sp. Lateral view of type. ( X 2^.) 



and somewhat longer than the infraocular portion of the gense, when 

 viewed from the dorsum the eyes are seen to be very slightly prominent; 

 antennae about as long as the head and pronotum together, heavy, 

 distinctly depressed, very slightly expanded proximad and with a 

 very slight expanded distal clavation. Pronotum 

 about half again as long as the dorsal surface of the 

 head ; cephalic margin subtruncate with an extremely 

 slight median emargination, caudal margin sub- 

 rectangulate, apex finely angulate; median carina 

 low, distinct, severed three times; lateral shoulders 

 distinct on the metazona, rounded and descending 

 ventro-cephalad on the prozona; lateral lobes about 

 as deep on their greatest dorsal length, ventral 

 margin rotundato-emarginate cephalad, arcuate cau- 

 dad. Tegmina exceeding .the tips of the caudal 

 femora by about the length of the head; greatest 

 width at about three-fourths the length from the 

 proximal extremity and contained about four and a 

 half times in the tegminal length: costal margin with 

 a very considerable rounded lobe, distad of which 

 the margin is straight to the point of greatest width 

 and arcuate thence to the apex, sutural margin 

 straight except for a slight proximal arcuation, apical region ob- 



Fig. 3. — Homal- 

 osaparus can- 

 onicus n. gen. 

 andsp. Dor- 

 sal view of 

 head and pro- 

 notum. ( X 

 2i) 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



liquely truncate with the apex rounded rectangulate. Wings fully- 

 developed. Prosternal spine erect, rather slender, hardly tapering, 

 bluntly pointed. Interspace between the mesosternal lobes broad 

 cephalad, sharply narrowed to about a third the cephalic width, then 

 slightly and regularly expanded with the caudal angles of the lobes 

 rounded, the whole shape of the interspace being like a letter X with the 

 upper portion abnormally expanded and the lower portion drawn out; 

 interspace between the metasternal lobes narrow, inverted, cuneiform. 

 Abdomen moderately compressed ; supra-anal plate produced subequal 

 in width in the proximal half, distinctly narrowed mesad and thence 

 arcuate to the rather blunt apex; cerci slender, subequal in the proximal 

 half, roundly emarginate on the dorsal margin in the distal half, the 

 apex blunt, the distal fourth seen to be distinctly arcuate mesad when 

 viewed from the dorsum; subgenital plate acute scaphiform, the apex 

 acute-angulate, and the lateral portions of the plate distinctly con- 

 stricted proximad, ventral aspect with a distinct median keel. Cephalic 

 and median hmbs rather slender. Caudal femora about two-thirds 

 the length of the tegmina, the greatest width contained about foiu* 

 times in the length, dorsal carinse serrato-dentate, pattern of the 

 paginae well impressed, genicular lobes acute; caudal tibiae slightly 

 shorter than the femora, lateral margin with nine spines one of which 

 is quite small and apical, internal margin with ten spines, one apical; 

 caudal tarsi comparatively short and with the pulvilli large. 



General color prout's brown, tawn3''-olive ventrad and tending 

 toward seal brown on the dorsum of the head, disk of the pronotum 

 and proximal portion of the tegmina. Head with the face washed with 

 walnut brown, several pale bars crossing between the labrum and 

 median ocellus; labrum ochre; sides of the head ventro-caudad of the 

 eyes washed with seal brown; eyes russet; antennae wood brown dorsad, 

 Vandyke brown ventrad with the tip blackish. Pronotum shghtly 

 touched laterad with walnut brown. Tegmina sprinkled rather 

 sparingly with small subquadrate maculations of seal brown; angle of 

 the anal field rather pale. Wings transparent, tinted with pale 

 brownish. Caudal femora with an obscm-e pregenicular annulus of seal 

 brown, tubercles on the carinse and pattern of the paginae blackish; 

 caudal tibiae with the spines maize yellow with seal brown tips. 



Measurernents. 



Length of body, 28.2 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 6 " 



Greatest caudal width of pronotum, 4 " 



Length of tegmen, 24.8 " 



Length of caudal femur, 15.8 " 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



A series of five paratypic males have also been examined, taken 

 from the first to nineteenth of September, 1900. In size they show 

 some little variation, and in color there is a tendency in some speci- 

 mens to a more grayish coloration than in others, while in one specimen 

 the color pattern is much more contrasted than in the type. Pale 

 bars on the lateral angles of the pronotum are sometimes present, the 

 ventral half of the eye also being suffused with seal brown in some 

 specimens, while the small tegminal maculations frequently show a 

 tendency to associate in oblique transverse bars well defined or much 

 interrupted and from one to three in number. 



SCHISTOCEECA St&l. 

 Schistocerca gratissima n. sp. 



Schistocerca lineata (Stoll)? according to Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 XXX, pp. 675, 676 (1906) .« 



Type: & ; Sao Paulo, Brazil. September 14, 1900. (Hempel.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



Fig. 4. — Schistocerca gratissima n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X H.) 



Alhed to S. 'pollens (Thunberg) but differing in the shorter, blunter 

 fastigium, the lesser space between the eyes, the broader and more 

 truly elliptical eye, the more arcuate facial outline when viewed 

 laterad and the anomalous pink and green coloration. 



Size large ; form rather slender. Head with the occiput considerably 

 elevated and rounded, descending regularly to the fastigium and 

 rounding into the frontal costa; interspace between the eyes slightly 

 exceeding the greatest width of the fastigium; fastigium about as long 

 as broad, considerably excavated; frontal costa slightly constricted 



• We do not consider the resemblance of StoU's figure of Gryllus (Locusta) 

 lineatus (Natuurl. Afbeeld. Besch. Springh., PI. XV [B, fig. 57) close enough to 

 specimens of this species to consider them the same. While in one or two points 

 resemblance exists, in a number of others the discrepancies are very considerable. 

 StoU's figure appears to us to be a true Locusta (Acridium of authors). 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



21 



'dorsad, thence of a uniform width to the clypeus, deeply silicate from 

 between the antennse to near the clypeus ; facial outline when viewed 

 from the lateral aspect slightly arcuate; eyes elliptical oval, distinctly 

 longer than the infraocular sulcus; antennae somewhat exceeding 

 the length of the head and pronotum together. Pronotum rounded 

 dorsad, hardly constricted, not tectate, disk of the metazona slightly 

 flattened; cephalic margin of the disk very slightly angulate with a 

 hardly appreciable median emargination, caudal margin of the disk 

 nearly rectangulate, the apex very broadly rounded, 

 median carina present but not high, cut by three 

 transverse sulci, prozona and metazona subequal in 

 length, the width of the metazona slightly greater 

 than its length, lateral angles not apparent on the 

 prozona, well rounded on the metazona; lateral lobes 

 considerably longer than deep, narrowing ventrad, 

 ventral margin truncate on the caudal half, obliquely 

 emarginate on the cephalic half. Tegmina exceeding 

 the apex of the abdomen by a distance about equal 

 to the length of the pronotum; costal margin con- 

 siderably arcuate in the distal third; apex broadlj^ 

 rounded. Prosternal spine stout, acute, very consid- 

 erably retrorse ; interspace between the mesosternal 

 lobes longitudinal, subcuneate, the interspace cephalad 

 being nearly as wide as the lobes; metasternal lobes 

 contiguous. Abdomen somewhat compressed ; cerci of 

 moderate length, the apex somewhat narrower than 

 the base, subtruncate; subgenital plate moderately produced, the 

 apex rather deeply divided. Caudal femora about reaching to the 

 apex of the abdomen, rather slender, medio-dorsal carina serrate, 

 paginse with the pattern distinctly but not very deeply impressed; 

 caudal tibise with the spines quite long, nine in number on the external 

 and eleven on the internal margins. 



General colors oil green, liver brown and salmon-buff. Head with 

 the face, an infraocular bar and the fastigium and occiput green, 

 remainder salmon-buff; a poorly defined medio-longitudinal occipital 

 pale band present, bordered laterad by poorly defined darker areas; 

 eyes burnt umber; antennae dull pinkish. Pronotum with the dorsum 

 green with a subequal median bar of vinaceous-rufous ; lateral lobes 

 vinaceous-pink with a broad oblique bar of green. Mesothoracic and 

 metathoracic epimera green, mesothoracic and metathoracic episterna 

 and ventral portions of the thorax pinkish. Tegmina with a costal 



Fig. 5. — ScJdslo- 

 cerca gratis- 

 sima n. sp. 

 Dorsal view 

 of head and 

 pronotum of 

 type. (X li) 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



bar of primrose yellow extending over almost the whole of the costal 

 half of the costal field, the greater portion of the margin of this pale 

 area being narrowly edged with maroon, remainder of the tegmina 

 liver brown, the principal veins maroon, several pale areas, caused 

 by the coloration of adventitious veins, distributed over the median 

 portion of the tegmen; anal field with a rather broad longitudinal 

 band of vinaceous-cinnamon. Wings slightly infuscate. Cephalic 

 and median limbs buffy washed dorsad with greenish. Caudal femora 

 with the dorsal half oil green, the ventral half salmon-buff, the division 

 along the middle of the paginse being indicated by a slightly blackish 

 area, genicular arches chestnut; caudal tibiae and tarsi pomegranate 

 purple, the spines maize yellow tipped with black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 49.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 9.5 " 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum, 6 " 



Length of tegmen, 46.2 



Length of caudal femur, 25 



Two paratypic males in the Academy Collection and one of the same 

 sex from Surinam (V-IX; Fruhstorfer) in the Hebard Collection have 

 been examined. This series shows a considerable amount of variation 

 in size and some in color. One Sao Paulo male is about equal to the 

 type in size, the other two specimens being appreciably smaller. The 

 additional Sao Paulo individuals agree fully with the type in color, while 

 the Surinam male has the greens much deeper, almost french green, 

 and the pink shades almost replaced by yellowish-white, sometimes 

 greenish-yellow, the purplish color of the caudal tibise being weaker and 

 replaced on the ventral surface by oil greenish. 



DICHR0PLU8 St&l. 

 Dichroplus brasiliensis Bruner. 



1906. Dichroplus brasiliensis Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, pp. 678,. 

 682. [Victoria, Brazil.] 



Espirito Santo, Brazil. [Hebard Collection.] One 9 . 

 Sao Paulo. September 14, 1900. (Hempel.) One 9 . 

 The pale bars mentioned in the original description are but faintly 

 indicated in these specimens. 



SCOTTJSSA Giglio-Tos. 

 Scotussa brasiliensis Bruner. 



1906. [Scotussa] brasilie7isis Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 689. 

 [Sao Paulo, Brazil.] 



Sao Paulo. September 7-19, 1900. (Hempel.) Six d", four 9. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



These specimens agree fully with the original description except 

 in the number of external tibial spines. In three of the males both 

 tibiae bear eight spines, and another male has eight on one tibiae and 

 nine on the other. In consequence the presence of nine spines cannot 

 be considered diagnostic. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. 



BEMAEKS ON THE FOSSIL CETACEAN RHABDOSTEUS LATIRADIX Cope. 

 BY FREDERICK W. TRUE. 



The genus and species Rhabdosteus latiradix were first described by 

 Cope in 1867/ and were based on a rostrum from Charles County, Md., 

 near the Patuxent River, collected b}^ James T. Thomas. Three teeth 

 were also "with much probability" assigned to the species. Cope 

 remarked: "Joseph T. Thomas, the discoverer of this cetacean, tells 

 me that he has seen portions of the muzzle between two and three 

 feet long." 



No fm-ther original information regarding the species appears to 

 have been published until 1890, when Cope published figures of the 

 type specimen, as restored, and of a tooth. He remarked, however, 

 that the posterior parts of the maxillary and premaxillary bones "were 

 restored from a different specimen from that represented in the rest 

 of the figures."^ This "different specimen" was figured by Mr. Case, 

 in 1904, together with still another rostrum^ and the three teeth. 



From an examination of the three beaks, which were ver}'- kindly 

 placed in my hands for study by the authorities of the Philadelphia 

 Academy of Natural Sciences and Mr. Witmer Stone, it appears prob- 

 able that three species are represented. The rostrum figured by Mr. 

 Case in PI. 15, fig. 1, is the same as that described by Leid}^, in 1869, 

 as probably belonging to Priscodelphinus grandoevus} I have remarked 

 in a previous paper that the reasons for identifying the rostrum with 

 that species are unsatisfactory f but, however that may be, the rostrum 

 certainly does not belong to the same species as the one called Rhab- 

 dosteus latiradix by Cope, nor is it likely that it represents the same 

 genus. 



The "different specimen" mentioned by Cope in 1890, and figured 

 by Mr. Case in PI. 15, fig. 2, does not, in my opinion, belong to the 

 species latiradix, nor is it at all probable that it belongs to the genus 

 Rhabdosteus. 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1867, pp. 132 and 145. 



2 Amer. Nat., 1890, p. 607, fig. 4. 



^ Rep. Maryland Geol. Surv., Miocene, 1904, PI. 15. 

 * Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Ser. 2, Vol. 7, 1869, p. 434. 

 ^ Smithsonian Misc. Colls., Quart. Issue, 50, Pt. 4, No. 1782, p. 451, January 27, 

 1908. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Leaving out of consideration for the moment the rostrum originally 

 .assigned to Priscodelphinus grandcevus (Case's PI. 15, fig. 1), I would 

 remark that the restoration of neither of the other two beaks appears 

 to me satisfactory, and that the figure published by Cope in 1890 is 

 even less so. As regards the latter, by adding a portion from the 

 second beak to the posterior end of the type, Cope has, in my opinion, 

 produced a figure which does not represent any species which has 

 actually existed, and, furthermore, as the portion added is itself 

 incorrect, the erroneousness of the figure is compounded. It should 

 also be remarked that in the side view (Cope's fig. 4 (la)) the alveoli 

 are much smaller than in the restoration of the type itself. 



Cope's note on the genus Rhabdosteus, published in 1890, is as follows : 



"The muzzle reaches an extraordinary elongation, and for the 

 greater part of its length forms an edentulous cylinder, which resembles 

 the beak of the sword-fishes. The few teeth which remain at the base 

 of the muzzle are like those of Platanista, with roots compressed so as 

 to be longitudinal, and crowns compressed so as to be transverse, to 

 the axis of the skull. The R. latiradix^ Cope is not uncommon in the 

 Miocene beds of Maryland. Its skeleton is unknown. The nearest 

 approach to Rhabdosteus is made by the genus Stenodelphis." 



After repeatedly examining the type specimen (PI. VI), I am 

 satisfied that this characterization is only partially correct. 



The alveoli, as restored, are horizontal. They are nine in number, 

 -about equal in size, and situated in advance of the depression in the 

 palate in which a lozenge-shaped area of the vomer usually appears. 

 Hence, they are hardly likely to represent the posterior end of the 

 series. That the alveoli should be horizontal in the midde of the 

 series is improbable. No known cetacean has such a conformation, 

 and on anatomical grounds it appears unlikely to occur. The lower 

 (or inner) margin of the alveoli and the lower half of the various septa 

 are alone preserved, and this only on one side of the jaw. No distinct 

 trace of the upper (or outer) margin of the alveoli and septa can he 

 seen on the long rod-like superior portions of the maxillae. The narrow 

 inferior strip of the maxilla, which bears the incomplete alveoli and 

 septa (already mentioned), has been placed outside the larger piece, 

 which forms the proximal end of the palate, and parallel with it. Such 

 a combination could be justified only on the ground that the maxilla 

 had split lengthwise, and that the outer and inner pieces represent two 

 parts of one and the same bone. This is improbable, as the inferior 

 surface of the larger piece is convex, while that of the smaller piece 

 is nearly plane. The smaller piece is, in my opinion, much more likely 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



to have been anterior to the larger piece originally and in line with it, 

 though this would bring the rather large alveoli farther forward than 

 might be expected. If the superior, rod -like portion of the maxilla 

 were turned outward on its axis, so as to bring the alveoli nearly or 

 quite to a vertical position, a space would apparently be left between 

 the premaxilla and maxilla. It is not reasonable to suppose that any 

 such space existed originally. 



In view of the circumstances mentioned above, I think it is unlikely 

 that the real form of the rostrum can be determined until additional 

 specimens have been collected, or at least until the type specimen 

 has been taken to pieces, so that all the surfaces of the component 

 bones can be examined. 



iMIt should be remarked that at the anterior end of the small piece of 

 the maxilla which bears the alveoli there is a space of 19 mm., in which 

 it is obvious that no alveoli existed, and between this and the first 

 alveolus which is traceable is another space of about 25 mm., in which 

 additional alveoli may or may not have existed. In any case, the 

 fragment in question bears the end of the series of alveoli, and, if it is 

 properly oriented, the anterior end. As the fragment bearing the 

 alveoli is much shorter than the rod-like portions of the maxillae above 

 it, this confirms to some extent Cope's assertion that the muzzle "in 

 the greater part of its length forms an edentulous cylinder." 



Measurements of the type-beak of Rhabdosteus latiradix Cope. 



Total length of beak, as restored, 440 mm. 



Greatest breadth of the same, as restored, 39 " 



Length of longest piece of premaxilla preserved, .... 330 " 



Length of longest piece of maxilla preserved, .... 277 " 



Breadth of premaxilla at posterior end, 11 " 



Breadth of premaxilla at anterior end 7 " 



Breadth of portion of maxilla above the alveoli at posterior 



end, 9 " 



Breadth of alveoli at anterior end, 7 " 



Greatestbreadthof palate between alveoli, as restored, . . 21 " 

 Length of the palatal portion of the left maxilla, which con- 

 tains the alveoh, 166 " 



Breadth of the same at the anterior end, 4 " 



Breadth of the same at the posterior end 4 " 



Length of larger palatal fragment (left), which is internal to 



the preceding in the restoration, 193 " 



Breadthof the same at the anterior end, 5 " 



Breadth of the same at the posterior end, 16 " 



Length occupied by nine alveoli, 103 " 



Antero-posterior breadth of largest septum between alveoli, . 5 " 



Antero-posterior breadth of largest alveolus, 7 " 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



•The "different specimen" mentioned by Cope, and figured by Mr. 

 Case,® consists of two pairs of slender elongated bones, of which the 

 outer pair represents the superior rostral portion of the maxillee, and 

 the inner pair the superior rostral portion of the premaxillse. The 

 maxillae diverge at both anterior and posterior ends, while the pre- 

 maxillse diverge at the anterior end and convei'ge at the posterior end. 

 At the latter point, in the median hne, is inserted a piece of bone which 

 may represent a portion of the vomer or mesethmoid. 



After examining this specimen, I am of the opinion that it is not 

 properly put together, especially as a space is left between the maxillae- 

 and premaxillae proximally. The small fragment inserted between the 

 premaxillae does not belong in that position. It is unsymmetrical and 

 probably represents some portion of the maxilla. 



Traces of several alveoli are visible on the under side of the maxillae, 

 at the proximal end. That these bones are acuminate at this end is 

 due to the fact that both the inner and outer edges are abraded. The 

 bones should be turned outward somewhat on their axes, so that the 

 lower free border, which is now directed outward, would be directed 

 downward. This would bring the maxillae into such a position that 

 the upper surface would be horizontal proximally, very much as in 

 Inia. 



The two inner bones are probably premaxillae, although at the 

 anterior end the inner surface is plane or. slightly convex rather than 

 concave. At the middle, the inner wall is concave, with traces of a 

 continuous longitudinal ridge. If they are really premaxillae, they 

 should be transposed, that on the right side being placed on the left 

 and vice versa. At the same time they should be given a quarter 

 turn on their axes, so as to make horizontal the inner surfaces which 

 are now vertical. This would also cause the bones to diverge at the 

 posterior end, as they do in /ma and most other Odontoceti, leaving 

 space for the prenarial triangle. Their shape would then corre- 

 spond closely to that of the same bones in Inia, except that the 

 sides near the proximal end would be somew^hat more nearly vertical. 



The specimen probably represents a genus allied to Inia, but it is 

 impossible without more material to determine its relationships accu- 

 rately. It does not agree with any European genus of which the 

 rostrum has been figured, nor with any American genus of which the 

 rostrum is available for comparison. 



Rep. Maryland Geol. Surv., Miocene, PI. 15, fig. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



The third rostrum (text fig. 1), which is that 

 mentioned by Leidy in 1869 under Priscodeliphinv.s 

 (or Tretosphys) grandcevus,'' and also figured by 

 Mr. Case,^ has, as already mentioned, no close 

 relationship with the other two. It may for the 

 present be considered as representing a species of 

 Priscodelphimis, although, as explained in a previ- 

 ous paper, ^ the reasons for referring it to that genus 

 are not satisf actor}'. 



The principal peculiarities of the rostrum are 

 that the premaxillse are much depressed, but not 

 narrowed, anteriorly, that the anterior alveoli are 

 larger than the posterior ones and directed for- 

 ward, and that the external free border of the 

 maxillae is rounded (see text figs. 2 and 3). 



Fig. 2. — Transverse section of the s.-ime at the posterior 

 end. (Nat. size.) 



Fig. 3. — ^Transverse section of the same at the anterior end. 

 (Nat. size.) In figs. 2 and 3 the maxillse are indicated 

 by horizontal lines and the premaxillce bj- oblique lines 



Fig. 1. — Rostrum of 

 Pris codelphinus 

 sp.? from the Mio- 

 cene of Shiloh , N . J . 

 Superior surface. 

 Q nat. size.) 



The three teeth which were provisionally 

 referred to Rhabdosteus by Cope are preserved in 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 and were examined by me in 1907. Very good 

 figures of the largest one were published by Cope 



' Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Ser. 2, Vol. 7, 1869, p. 434. 

 8 Rep. Maryland Geol. Surv., Miocene, PI. 15, fig. 1. 

 ^ Smithsonian Misc. Colls., Quarterlv Issue, 50, Pt. 4, No. 

 1782, p. 451, January 27, 1908. 




1938.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



in 1890.^*" This tooth and one other are blackish in color, while 

 the third tooth is yellowish. The last mentioned is 21 mm. long, and 

 that figured by Cope 23 mm. 



As mentioned by Cope, both crown and root are compressed, the 

 former at right angles to the latter." This form of tooth occurs in 

 Stenodelphis and in some genera of DelphinidcB. The crown is slightly 

 recurved. The base of the crown is somewhat convex, both internally 

 and externally, and is marked off from the root by a distinct con- 

 striction, due in part, no doubt, to wear. 



Teeth similar to these in size and form, from Baltringen, Wiirtem- 

 berg, Germany, were described and figured by Dr. J. Probst in 1886,^^ 

 under the name of Schizodelphis canaliculatus H. von Meyer. This 

 species is considered identical with S. sulcatus by Dr. Abel, but the 

 teeth of the latter, figured by Dal Piaz,*^ are certainly different, as 

 regards the shape of the crown and the direction of its compression, 

 from those figured by Probst. Even with allowance for variation, 

 it seems to me probable that they may represent two different species 

 of the genus Schizodelphis. The principal difference between the 

 teeth assigned to Rhabdosteus and those figured by Probst is that the 

 crown is shorter in the former. 



On the whole, it seems probable that the teeth described by Cope 

 belong to the genus Schizodelphis, but this is not a sufficient reason 

 for considering Rhabdosteus synonymous with Schizodelphis, especially 

 in view of the fact that it is uncertain whether the teeth have any 

 direct connection with the type rostrum of Rhabdosteus. The most that 

 can be said is that the alveoli of Rhabdosteus indicate that the teeth 

 had flattened roots of the same size as those of the teeth which Cope 

 assigned to that genus. 



Explanation of Plate VI. 



Plate VI. — Fig. 1. — Type specimen of Rhabdosteus latiradix Cope. Superior 

 surface. Scale p;. 

 Fig. 2. — The same. Left side. Scale ^. 

 Fig. 3. — The same. Inferior surface. Scale ^j. 



1" Amer. Nat., 1890, p. 607, fig. 4 (2, 2a, 2b). 



" That the anterior and posterior surfaces of the crown are flat is not due to 

 wear. 



" Jahreshefte Ver. Vaterldnd. Naturkunde W urttemberg , 42, 1SS6, PL 3, figs. 

 11-14. 



" Palceont. Ital., 9, PI. 31, figs. 6-2S. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



March 3. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Sixty-four persons present. 



The reception of a paper entitled ''New Land and Fresh-water Mol- 

 lusca of the Japanese Empire," by H. A. Pilsbry and Y. Hirase (Febru- 

 ary 28), was reported. 



Dr. John W. Harshberger made a communication on his dendro- 

 logical studies in Italy, wdth special reference to the influence of vegeta- 

 tion on the building up of the islands on which Venice is placed, and 

 on the condition of the timber foundations of the Campanile as revealed 

 at the time of its fall. (No abstract.) 



March 17. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Fifty-nine persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of a paper entitled 

 "New Land Shehs from the Chinese Empire — I/' by H. A. Pilsbry and 

 Y. Hirase (March 11). 



E. G. CoxKLiN, Ph.D., made a communication on some phenomena 

 and causes of heredity. (No abstract.) 



The following were ordered to be published : 




1908.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



NEW LAND AND FRESH- WATER MOLLTISCA OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY AND Y. HIRASE. 



Among other new forms noticed below, the first Pisidium from Japan 

 is described. It is from the island of Yesso, where the palaearctic 

 element is much better represented than in other parts of the Empire. 



FoRMosAN Species. 



Cyclophorus formosaensis Nevill. 



This is apparently confined, in its typical form, to northern Formosa. 

 Numerous specimens from Hoozan, EnsuilvO, Sammaipo and Hotawa 

 — places all in the interior below the middle of the island — differ 

 by having a strong keel at the periphery, and may be known 

 as C. /. interioris n. subsp., Sammaipo being type locality. It is 

 this form which we formerly listed as C. turgidus Pfr. from Hotawa 

 {Proc. Acad. Nat. Set. Phila., 1905, p. 722). It differs from C. turgidus 

 in the very much smaller central nipple or mucro on the inside of the 

 operculum. The shells are practically indistinguishable. Our former 

 opinion that C. formosaensis is a variety of C. turgidus must be retracted. 

 We doubt whether C. turgidus occurs in Formosa. The species of this 

 group of Cyclophori stand very close, and their differences are not 

 of much importance, yet the areas occupied by the several slightly 

 differentiated races are mainly different. 

 Cyclophorus friesianus Mlldff. 



This species has been found at Tapanii, Formosa, the specimens 

 agreeing well with the original description except by their smaller 

 size, alt. 19, diam. 22 mm. It differs from C. formosaensis interioris 

 only in having numerous low spiral ridges above and below the peripheral 

 keels. The operculum is like that of formosaensis, evenly convex inside 

 with a very small central nipple. 



Species of Japan and the Ryukyu Islands. 



Cyclotus tanegashimanus n. sp. 



Shell very similar to C. campamdatus Marts., but if specimens of the 

 same size are compared, tanegashimanus is seen to have the umbilicus 

 a trifle larger and the aperture just perceptibly smaller; the lip is less 

 expanded. The operculum is distinctly convex externally, and much 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEM-Y OF [March^ 



more deeply concave inside, than that of C. campamdatus. The edge 

 is bevelled and flat between projecting outer and inner laminae. 



Alt. 8.5, diam. 12.2 mm.; whorls U. 

 " 7.1 " 10 " " d. 



Tanega-shima, Osmni. Types No. 94,711 A. N. S. P., from No. 54:b 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The Cycloti of this group, represented in Japan by C. campanulatus, 

 and in China by C. stenomphcdus and its allies, are very similar in shape 

 and color. The form described above is well distinguished by its 

 externally convex operculum, that of C. campanulatus being flat out- 

 side and much less concave within. 

 Spiropoma yakushimanum n. sp. 



The shell is depressed, very openly umbilicate, solid, yellowish- 

 olivaceous, somewhat brownish on the last whorl, the cuticle much 

 paler or usually wanting on the inner whorls. Surface glossy where 

 unworn, marked with growth-lines and very indistinct traces of spiral 

 strise. Whorls fully 4^, quite convex, the first one projecting a little; 

 last whorl tubular, very convex at the base, deeply descending in front. 

 Aperture oblique, longer than wide. Peristome contracted, being 

 thickened within and shortly built forward; obtuse, whitish. It is 

 thickened in the posterior angle, but usually has a small notch there. 

 The columellar margin recedes rather conspicuously. The short 

 parietal margin is thick and straight. 



Alt. 7.3, diam. 12.5, alt. of aperture including peristome 5.3, width 

 4.7 mm. 



Alt. 6.3, diam. 11.5 mm. 



The operculum is conic, composed of 7^ flat whorls separated by a 

 narrow ledge with raised outer edge, producing a narrow spiral channel 

 along the suture; summit obtuse. 



Yaku-shima, Osumi. Types No. 94,716 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,447 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Compared with S. japoniciim (A. Ad.), this form differs in the more 

 descending last w^horl, the deeper umbihcus and more excised or 

 receding columellar lip. The aperture is longer than wide in yakii- 

 shimanum, nearly round in japonicum. It is perhaps more closeh'' 

 related to *S. nakadai of Tanega-shima, a smaller shell with an oper- 

 culum of fewer whorls, but having an aperture much as in S. yaku- 

 shimanum. 

 Diplommatina gotoensis n. sp. 



Closely related to D. cassa, but with longer conical spire, rapidly 

 tapering and conic above the penultimate whorl, which is the largest ; 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



pale reddish or yellowish-corneous; very finely and evenly striate 

 throughout. Constriction in the middle in front. Last whorl smaller, 

 only moderately ascending to the aperture. Aperture subcircular, 

 the outer lip reflexed, duplicate, the two laminae close together, a 

 narrow opaque whitish streak just behind the reflection; indistinctly 

 angular at the base of the columellar lip. Parietal callus thin with 

 low, thread-like edge, not very distinct, and rising to the middle of the 

 front of the penultimate whorl. Columellar lamella horizontal, thin, 

 rather long. Palatal plica quite short and situated wholly to the left 

 of the parietal callus. Inside, the columellar lamella is evenly high and 

 thin throughout. Internal parietal lamella low and rather long. 



Length 3, diam. 1.5 mm.; whorls 6^. 

 " 2.7, " 1.3 " " 6^. 



Goto, Hizen. Types No. 84,905 A. N. S. P.. from No. 6046 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection. 



This species resembles D. nipponensis Mlldff. in shape and sculptm-e, 

 but differs by the position of the constriction, which is median in 

 gotoensis, above the termination of the outer lip in nipponensis. In the 

 latter species the palatal plica lies under the parietal callus. D. cassa 

 is a more cylindric species, the cone of the spire shorter. D. kyushuen- 

 sis Pils. and Hir., a widely distributed species in Kyushu, is closely 

 related to D. gotoensis, but it has a palatal plica about twice as long, 

 and the columellar lamella is much stronger near its inner termination 

 than near the aperture, while in D. gotoensis it is about equally strong 

 throughout. 



Eulota (Plectotropis) lepidophora soutifera P. and H., n. subsp. 



The shell closely resembles E. lepidophora tenuis Gude, but differs by 

 its more convex whorls and consequently deeper sutures. The 

 periphery is often a little less angular than in tenuis. Siu-face, when 

 unworn, copiously covered wdth triangular cuticular scales. 



Alt. 4.3, diam. 8.7 mm. ; whorls 5|-. 

 " 4, " 7.3 " " 5i. 



Iheyajima, Ryukyu group. Types No. 94,705 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,2906 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Eulota (Aegista) celsa P. and H., n. sp. 



The shell is convexly conic, deeply umbilicate, the umbilicus cyhn- 

 dric, well-like, the periphery obtusely angular. Siu-face lusterless, 

 chestnut brown, finely but not strongly striate on the upper surface, the 

 striae indistinct at the base ; on the last part of the last whorl near the 

 aperture the striae are partially interrupted into long granules. The 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



spire has convex oiithnes and an obtuse apex. Whorls 6J, convex, 

 very slowly widening, the last one very slowly and slightly descending, 

 indistinctly angular at the periphery in front, becoming rounded on the 

 last half. The aperture is quite oblique, very much larger than the 

 umbilicus. Peristome thin ; outer margiji only very slightly expanded ; 

 basal margin deeply arcuate, slightly expanded; columellar margin 

 broadly, triangularly dilated. The terminations of the lip are widely 

 separated, parietal callus very thin. 



Alt. 10.5, diam. 12 mm. ; alt. and width of aperture 6 mm. ; width of 

 umbilicus 3 mm. 



South Nishigo, Uzen. Type No. 94,740 A. N. S. P., from No. 1,438 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This peculiar Aegista has some superficial resemblance to Trish- 

 oplita hilgendorfi Kob. It is closely related to E. eminens P. and H., 

 but differs in being larger, stronger, with less scaly sculpture, and a 

 little less strongly angular. It is quite possible that intermediate 

 provinces between Shima and Uzen will be found to have connecting 

 links between E. eminens and E. celsa ; yet at present they seem to be 

 sufficiently distinct. 



The type specimen is higher than others in the type lot. The lower 

 ones have less convex outlines, the spire being less convexly conic; 

 the last two whorls have sculpture of long granules in places ; and the 

 umbihcus is much wider than in the type. Alt. 9, diam. 13.8 mm.; 

 aperture 6x6 mm. ; umbilicus 3.5 mm. wide (celsus, lofty). 



Ena reiniana vasta n. subsp. 



Shell very large, cylindric. The cuticle is glossy, yellowish brown, 

 and copiously granulose except on 3 or 4 earliest whorls; but many 

 old shells have lost the cuticle and sculpture in part or wholly. Whorls 

 8 to 9^. 



Length 37.5, diam. above aperture 11 mm. 

 " 35 " " " 10.8 " 



u 325 u u u ^-^2 " 



S. Nishigo, Uzen. Types No. 94,686 A. N. S. P., from No. 1,439 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is the largest of the Japanese Buhmini. It is larger than 

 Ena reiniana omiensis, and copiously granular when unworn. 



Ena reiniana ugoensis n. subsp. 



Shell very short and obese, reddish on the spire, whitish on the last 

 whorl, under a thin yellow cuticle; granulation only weakly developed. 



Whorls 7i. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 35 



Length 26, diam. above aperture 10, length of aperture 10 mm. 

 u 23, '' '' " 10, '' " 9.2 " 



Kitaura (Cape of Ojika), Ugo. Types No. 94,738 A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 1,444 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The obese shape, length about 2h times the diameter, is the chief 

 character of this local race. 



Pythia pachyodon n. sp. 



This species of the scarabceus group is nearly uniform blackish olive, 

 but with a blackish band below the suture and sometimes with more or 

 less brown suffusion. The sm-face is rather finely \vrinkle-striate, with 

 some widely spaced spiral lines. Spire angular on both sides, with 

 whitish streaks in front of the angle. Whorls 10. Base perforate or 

 umbilicate. Aperture with two stout parietal teeth and a strong 

 columellar lamella. Teeth in the outer margin irregular, three larger, 

 with two or three minute ones. 



Length 30.6, greatest diam. 18.5, antero-posterior diam. 13.5 mm.; 

 length of aperture 18.5 mm. 



Loochoo (Okinawa) and Oshima,in the Ryukyu Islands. Types No. 

 87,537 A. N. S. P., from Mr. Hirase. 



Pythia aegialitis n. sp. 



The shell is similar to P. 'pachyodon, but is copiously mottled with dark 

 brown on a pale corneous-yellowish ground; the markings sometimes 

 partially obscured when the surface is superficially worn. Teeth of the 

 inner margin as in P. 'pachyodon; three teeth in the outer lip. 



Length 25.3, greatest diam. 15.6, antero-posterior diam. 11, length 

 of aperture 16.7 mm. 



Loochoo (Okinawa) and Oshima, Ryukyu Islands. 



The specimens from Oshima are somewhat longer and comparatively 

 less wide than those from Loochoo Island. 



While closely related to the P. scarabceus group, which is composed of 

 very poorly characterized species, yet the two Ryukyuan forms do not 

 exactly agree with any of them, and it may be well to have definite 

 designations for them. 



Besides these forms, P. cecillei Phil, has been found by Mr. Hirase 

 at Hirado, Hizen, and P. 'nana Bavay was described from specimens 

 taken at Loochoo. 

 Pisidium japonioum n. sp. Fig. 1. 



The shell is subglobose, rounded-oval, with large, very wide, moder- 

 ately projecting rounded beaks; surface glossy, very finely, irregularly 

 striate; cuticle light yellow; valves very convex, not very inequipartite, 




36 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



both ends rounded , the posterior shorter and wider. Hinge very short, 

 the lateral teeth short and wide, rather near together, stout but low, 



Pisidium japonicum, lateral, posterior and interior views. 



only the anterior one projecting above the level of the valve. Cardinal 

 teeth minute, almost obsolete, narrow, very low and somewhat elongate. 



Length 2.37, alt. 2.16, diam. 1.87 mm. 



Akkeshi, Kushiro, Yesso, Types No. 94,744 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 181 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is the first Pisidium to be described from Japan. It is a very 

 small species, unusually globose, with very large full beaks. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



37 



NEW LAND SHELLS OF THE CHINESE EMPIRE-I. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY AND Y. HIRASE. 



The following species were collected by Mr. Nakada in the course of 

 several months' work, chiefly in the north. A more ample report 

 will be published later. Working chiefly in the densely populated 

 northeastern provinces and not far from the coast, the number of 

 species taken was naturally not great, though some, such as Vallonia 

 patens Reinh., Eulota? miinieriana Cr. & Deb., etc., are forms hitherto 

 but little known. Around Soochow and Hangchow a fauna richer in 

 Clausilice, Helices and Cydophoridce was encountered, most of the 

 species in this region being among those described by Pere Heude and 

 earlier naturalists. 



DIPLOMMATINIDiE. 



Diplommatina hangchowensis n. sp. Fig. 1. 



The shell is short, cylindric, the summit shortly conic, base rounded ; 



corneous or pale brownish, somewhat translucent, the upper part 

 whitish or pale red. Whorls 5^, very convex. 

 The first whorl is smooth; following whorls are 

 very finely and delicately rib-striate ; on the 

 penultimate whorl the ribs are much weaker, 

 and the last whorl is smooth. In back view the 

 penultimate whorl is largest, the last whorl 

 much smaller and quite glossy, ascending a 

 little near its end, and constricted in front, 

 above the columella. A short palatal plica 

 shows through, just left of the parietal callus. 

 The aperture is nearly circular. The peristome 

 is expanded and thickened, with a flat face and 

 inconspicuous inner rim; at the base of the 

 columella it is very indistinctly angular; it is 



interrupted above, the margins joined by a thin parietal callus, with 



thin adnate edge. Columellar lamella well developed. 

 Length 2.4, diam. 1.3 mm., alt. of aperture 0.95 mm. 

 Hangchow, province of Che-kiang, China. Types No. 94,748 A. N. 



S. P., from No. 1,479a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Fig. 1. — Diplonvnatina 



hangchoivensis . 




38 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



This species of the section Sinica is smaller than D. paxillus Gredler, 

 and differs by its smooth last whorl and very short palatal plica. It 

 is more related to D. hungerfordiana of Formosa, which differs in 

 shape. D. schmackeri Mlldff. is unlike hangchowensis by the shape of 

 the aperture. 



A variety also from Hangchow may be called D. hangchowensis 

 granum. It is larger, length 2.7, diam. 1.5 mm., with 6 whorls and 

 pale reddish-corneous color. The cone of the spire is longer than in 

 D. hangchowensis. 



HYDROOBNID^. 



The genus Georissa is represented by six species in China : G. hach- 

 manni Gredl., G. sinensis Hde., G. nivea Hde., G. sulcata Mlldff., 

 hungerfordiana Mlldff., and G. heudei P. & H. In all of these except 

 sinensis and heudei the glossy, flat operculum is retracted some dis- 

 tance in the aperture. This is the normal condition in Georissa. 



In G. sinensis and G. heudei the thick, calcareous operculum lodges at 

 the edge of the peristome, as in Bithynia, being larger than in Georissa 

 proper. We propose to signalize this feature by the erection of a new 

 subgenus Georissopsis, the type being G. heudei. 

 Georissa (Georissopsis) heudei n. sp. Fig. 2. 



The shell is minutely perforate or subperf orate, conic, higher than 

 wide, gray, more or less reddish in places, sculptured with very fine, 



close spiral striae, usually in 

 large part lost by erosion. 

 There are 3^ to 3f whorls, the 

 first corneous and glossy, the 

 rest very convex, separated by 

 deep sutures. The aperture is 

 subvertical, broadly semicir- 

 cular, the outer margin very 

 convex, inner margin nearly 

 straight; the basal margin is 

 very broadly rounded, the 

 upper end narrowly rounded. 

 The peristome is thin, acute; 

 the inner lip is built forward, 

 standing free from the whorl except for a short space near the posterior 

 end, leaving an umbilical area. 

 Length 3.4, diam. 2.1 mm. 

 The operculum lodges at the lip-edge. It is between triangular and 



Fig. 



2. — G. heudei and outline of oper- 

 culum, interior view. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



semicircular in shape, calcareous, thick, white, with a dark nuclear 

 dot nearer the outer border; around this it has concentric growth-lines. 

 The inner face is concave. Near the lower third a stout rib arises 

 about the middle of the width, running to the columellar border 

 where it projects as a short point. 



Hangchow, province Che-kiang, China. Types No. 94,745 A. N. S. 

 P., from No. 1,477 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is very similar to G. sinensis (Hde.) in characters of the 

 shell, but it differs in the operculum, which is figured as with sub- 

 central nucleus in G. sinensis, while in G. heudei the nucleus is near the 

 outer border. We have no reason to doubt the accuracy of Heude's 

 figure. It was drawn by Rathouis, whose faithful drawings have prob- 

 ably never been surpassed. Unfortunately Pere Heude, who described 

 G. sinensis as a Realia, did not describe the operculum, merely saying 

 that "I'opercule est celui du genre." 



Some specimens from Changyang, received as G. sinensis, are much 

 smaller than Pere Heude's type. They have a dark, subcentral 

 nuclear dot. 



G. heudei occurred at Hangchow with the much smaller G. bach- 

 manni Gredl. 



HKLICID^. 

 Eulota laeva P. and H., n. sp. 



The shell is sinistral, depressed-globose with conic spire, narrowly 

 half-covered umbilicate, thin, light corneous-yellow. Surface glossy, 

 smooth to the eye, but under a lens it is seen to have very weak, faint 

 growth-lines, the last two whorls densely, minutely granular, the granu- 



front and dorsal \'iew.s. 



lation weak on the upper surface, more distinct on the base ; there are 

 also some weak traces of a few coarse, impressed spirals on the last 

 whorl. The spire is conic with slightly convex outhnes and obtuse 

 apex. Whorls 5^, slowly increasing convex, the last descending a little 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



to the aperture and indistinctly angular in front, the base very convex. 

 The aperture is quite oblique, the upper and baso-columellar margins 

 about equally arcuate, the outer arc more strongly curved. The peris- 

 tome is thin, narrowly but well expanded, the baso-columellar margin 

 reflexed, somewhat dilated towards the columellar insertion. 



Alt. 12.5, diam. 13.8 mm. ; aperture 7.5 mm. high, 8 wide. 



Hangchow, province Che-kiang, China. Type No. 94,739, A. N. 

 S. P., from No. 1,475 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is a more compact shell than Eulota fortunei and quite different 

 in sculpture. The generic position is uncertain, until the soft anatomy 

 can be examined. It may belong to the section Eulotella, or it may 

 be a Ganesella. The minute granulation is like some species of the 

 G. japonica group. We do not know of any sinistral Ganesella, but 

 there are many sinistral species of Eulota. 



Dead and bleached shells which have lost the cuticle do not show the 

 granulation described above. The largest example seen measures, 

 alt. 12, diam. 16.5 mm. It is a dead shell. 



Eulota (Plectotropis) scitula P. and H., n. sp. Fig. 4. 



The shell is rather narrowly umbilicate, conic above, convex below, 

 strongly angular at the periphery; uniform chestnut brown. The sur- 

 face is rather dull, finely closely and rather weakly marked wdth growth- 

 striae, which in quite fresh, unworn shells bear short adnate cuticular 

 threads on the base, giving it a sparsely scaly appearance. The last 

 two whorls have also a very close, fine sculpture of beautifully even spiral 



Fig. 4. — Eulota (Plectotropis) scitula. 



strise. The outlines of the conic spire are nearly straight. Whorls 6|-, 

 slowly increasing, moderately convex, the last descending very little or 

 not at all in front, convex beneath. The aperture is strongly oblique, 

 rounded lunate. Peristome thin, narrowly but distinctly expanded, the 

 basocolumellar margins a little reflexed, dilated towards the columellar 

 insertion; ends widely separated, joined by a thin film. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



41 



Alt. 6.5, diam. 9.2 mm.; aperture alt. 4, width 4.6 mm.; umbilicus 

 1.7 mm. wide. 



Alt. 6.5, diam. 9 mm. 



Hangchow, province Che-kiang, China. Types No. 94,741 A. N. 

 S. P., from No. 1,471 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A small, beautifully sculptured shell, which we are unable to identify 

 with any of Pere Heude's species from the lower Yangtse valley. It 

 has some resemblance to E. inornata and belongs to a group of 

 thin, dull species with the shell spirally engraved, cuticular scales small 

 or wanting, and usually with no peripheral fringe. Other species of tJiis 

 group are E. osbecki, inornata, hachijoensis, fulvicans, lautsi, micra, 

 perplexa, inrinensis, hebes, etc. 

 Chloritis impotens P. and H., n. sp. Fig. 5. 



Shell depressed-globose, narrowly umbilicate, thin and fragile, 

 corneous-brown. The surface has a somewhat silky sheen, and under 

 the lens is seen to be densely set with small granules, which are long 

 in the direction of growth-lines, and arranged in oblique, forwardly 

 descending rows, though this arrangement is not everywhere visible, 

 being in part or wholly lost near the mouth. This granular sculpture 

 extends almost to the apex, only the initial half whorl or less being 

 smoothish, though not glossy. On the last two whorls the granules 



Fig. 5. — C. impotens, basal, front and dorsal views, and sculpture of last whorl 

 below suture. 



bear short cuticular appendages in fresh, unworn shells, such as are 

 often present in Mgista and Plectotropis. The spire is low-conic. 

 Whorls 5, convex, at first slowly increasing, the last one abruptly 

 becoming much wider, about twice the width of the preceding, not 

 noticeably descending in front, rounded at the periphery. The aper- 

 ture is rounded -lunate, moderately obUque. Peristome thin throughout, 

 the outer and basal margins very slightly expanded, columellar mar- 

 gin broadly, triangularly dilated, half covering the umbilicus. 



Alt. 8.7, diam. 12.6 mm. ; alt. aperture 6.5, width 7.5 mm. 



Chifoo, province Pe-chih, China. Types No. 94,742 A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1,468 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 




42 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



A thin, fragile shell, with large aperture and densely, minutely 

 granose-scaly sculpture. In fully adult shells the granulation is more 

 or less worn from the apical and early whorls, and on the last whorl the 

 long granules appear to be glossy, but hardly if at all raised above the 

 dull surface. The generic position of this snail is uncertain, but it has 

 the shell characters of Trichochloritis rather than of any group known 

 anatomically to belong to Eulota. 



PaPILLID^. 

 Hypselostoma (Boysidia) hangohowensis P. and H., n. sp. 



The shell is high-conic, with obtuse apex and convex base, minutely 

 perforate, with a long curved umbilical rimation, dark brown. The 

 spire is straightly conic, composed of 5^ 

 convex whorls. The last whorl ascends 

 slowly to the aperture, its latter part being 

 straightened and built forward to the level 

 of the ventral face of the shell. There is no 

 crest or marked constriction behind the lip. 

 The aperture is truncate-oval, the upper mar- 

 gin straight. Peristome thin, well expanded, 

 continuous; with a shallow dent outside at 

 the upper third of the outer lip. The angular 

 and parietal lamellae are concrescent into one 

 stout straight lamella reaching to the margin, 

 wider in the middle of its length, where it 

 shows traces of its dual composition. The 

 columellar lamella is strong, slopes obliquely downward as it enters, 

 and the outer end reaches to, but not upon, the expansion of the hp. 

 There are two short palatal plicae, the lower one somewhat more deeply 

 placed. 



Alt. 2.9, diam. 1.8 mm.; largest axis of aperture 1.3 mm. 

 Hangchow, province Che-kiang, China. Type No. 94,743 A. N. S. 

 P., from Mr. Hirase. 



Compared with H. (Boysidia) hunana Gredler, this is a much smaller 

 shell, with only two palatal plicae instead of three, and the angulo- 

 parietal lamella is less distinctly bifid, as seen in an obliquely basal 

 view. It is not closely related to other described species. 



H. hangchowensis was found with Bifidaria {Bensonella) plicidens 

 (Bens.), a species not before reported from China, but found in the 

 Ryukyu Islands, as well as in subhimalayan India. 



H. hunana as described and figured by Gredler has the last whorl 



H. hangchowensis. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



built forward, carrying the aperture free from the preceding whorl. 

 We have not seen this form; the specimens of hunana before us, while 

 agreeing with Gredler's description in other characters, do not have 

 the last whorl free in front, though the peristome is continuous. They 

 are like Pere Heude's figures of hunana. Dr. von Mollendorff has 

 unnecessarily altered the name hunana to hunanensis. 



We share with Gredler the opinion that Boysidia is a section or sub- 

 genus of Hypselostoma rather than a distinct genus. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



April 7. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers under 

 the following titles : 



"Description of a new Species of Squaloid Shark," by Chiyomatsu 

 Ishikawa, Ph.D. (March 18, 1908). 



"Notes on Succinea ovalis Say and S. ohliqua Say," by H. A. Pilsbry 

 (March 21). 



"Animal Names and Anatomical Terms of the Goshute Indians," 

 by Ralph V. Chamberlain (March 28). 



"Notes on Sharks," by Henry W. Fowler (March 28). 



"Generic Types of Nearctic Reptilia and Amphibia," by Arthur 

 Erwin Brown (April 7). 



The death of Henry Clifton Sorby, a correspondent, March 9, was 

 reported. 



Dr. Henry W. Cattell made a communication on Trypanosomiasis 

 in man and animals. (No abstract.) 



April 21. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following 

 titles had been presented for publication: 



"On the Classification of Scalpilliform Barnacles," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry (April 21). 



The death of James M. Ridings, a member, March 7, was announced. 



Mr. Harold Sellers Colton made a communication on Charles 

 Wilson Peale and the Philadelphia Museum. (No abstract.) 



Henry H. Donaldson, M.D., was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



NOTES ON SUCCINEA OVALIS Say AND S. OBLIQUA Say. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Since Gould's publication on the Succineas of Massachusetts in 1841, 

 there has been more or less confusion as to the identity of Succinea 

 ovalis Say. The facts in the case were pointed out by Dr. Binney in 

 1851, but unfortunately a faulty manner of correcting Gould's mistake 

 was adopted, resulting in two errors of nomenclature in place of one. 

 Some years ago the writer rectified the current usage, restoring Say's 

 name ovalis to its original significance. This correction has been 

 accepted by many recent writers, but there are a few conspicuous 

 exceptions ; hence it seems necessary, in the interest of uniform nomen- 

 clature, to demonstrate the status of *S. ovalis by giving its history 

 somewhat fully. 



Observations on the mantle-markings of Succinea, made in New 

 York several years ago, also find place here. These color markings are 

 shown to be highly variable among individuals of a single colony, yet 

 the general pattern differs to a greater or less extent in different species. 

 The subject is worth further investigation, both from the standpoint of 

 variation and also systematically, as an aid in distinguishing species in 

 this difficult genus. 

 Succinea ovalis Say. 



The actual type or types of Succinea ovalis Say are no longer in 

 existence ; but three specimens labelled and mounted on a card by Say 

 are extant, representing what he subsequently considered to be S. ovalis. 

 The original description must have been drawn from immature in- 

 dividuals, the measurements, ''length nine-twentieths of an inch, 

 aperture seven-twentieths," being only about two- thirds to three- 

 fourths the ordinary size attained around Philadelphia. The pro- 

 portion of aperture to length given by Say agrees with specimens I 

 have measured, but with no other Succinea of this region. This common 

 Philadelphian snail, still living in Fairmount Park, is indistinguish- 

 able from what Lea subsequently described from Newport, R. I., as S. 

 totteniana. 



In the Tableau Systematique de la Famille des Limagons, p. 26 (1821), 

 Ferussac records Succinea ovalis Say as communicated to him by Say, 

 and figured on plate XIa, fig. 1 of the Histoire, etc., which was 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



issued in 1822. The two figures given represent tlie form now com- 

 monly known as "S. totteniana^' (but properly called S. ovalis Say), 

 and still found around Philadelphia. These figures agree perfectly 

 with the specimens labelled by Say in the collection of the Academy. 

 On the same plate Ferussac figures larger forms ("S. obliqua" of 

 authors) as varieties of S. putris (figs. 7, 8). He also figures large 

 ovalis (totteniana) from "the islands Miquelon and Saint Pierre, near 

 Newfoundland" (fig. 9). 



The species S. ovalis was therefore very well figured by Ferussac, 

 from author's specimens, prior to Say's description of S. obliqua; and 

 there was but scant excuse for mistaking it, except that but few 

 American workers possessed the large and expensive Histoire naturelle 

 generale et particuliere des Mollusques terrestres et fluviaiiles. 



Beck, 1837, and other early European writers accepted the species, 

 referring to Ferussac's figures. 



Succinea ovalis was correctly recognized also by various early 

 American writers for the form later known as totteniana. See DeKay's 

 New York Fauna, Mollusca, p. 53, PI. 4, figs. 51, 52. It was Gould 

 who by error shifted the names, in the first edition of the Invertebrata 

 of Massachusetts (1841). He recognized three Succineas in that 

 State : 



S. ovalis, fig. 125 [= S. retusa Lea]. 



S. campestris, fig. 126 [= S. ovalis Say = totteniana Lea]. 



,S. avara, fig. 127 [correctly identified]. 



Gould subsequently recognized his two mistakes, and finding that 

 the names *S. ovalis Say, obliqua Say and campestris Gould, not Say, 

 all applied to one species, he proposed to retain the name obliqua for 

 it, and to use "*S. ovalis Gld. not Say" for *S. retusa, the snail he had 

 figured in error as Say's ovalis. 



DeKay, C. B. Adams and Sager, who used Gould's work, were in some 

 measure misled, especially in regard to *S. campestris. DeKay (1843), 

 as mentioned above, correctly identified S. ovalis. 



In 1851 Dr. Amos Binney lucidly discussed the American Succineas 

 in Vol. II of the Terrestrial Mollusks, pp. 63, 64. His exposition of the 

 history of *S. ovalis Say leaves little to be desired, and may well be 

 quoted here : 



"Succinea ovalis Say. — This species, diffused universally in the 

 middle and northern States of the Union, is that which is described in 

 the works of Messrs. Gould, Mighels, Kirtland and Sager as Succinea 

 campestris Say. It varies much in size, and in the divergence of the 

 last whorl from the axis of the shell, and this last variation when 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



47 



strongly developed constitutes Succinea ohliqua Say. Succinea 

 ovalis of Messrs. Gould, Adams, Mighels and Sager is not the ovalis 

 of Say, but a species which was unknown to him. As, however, the 

 ovalis of Gould is that now most commonly known under the name 

 of Succinea ovalis, we propose to retain it, and to appl}^ to Mr. Say's 

 species his second name, ohliqua." 



y^ 



Fig. 1. — Tablet bearing Succinea 

 ovalis, mounted -and labelled by 

 Thomas Say. Nat. size. 





Fig. 2. — Say's tablet of Succinea 

 ohliqua. Nat. size. 



The tablet of three specimens of S. ovalis labelled by Say is photo- 

 graphed, fig. 1. A series of modern specimens from Fairmount Park 

 is shown, fig. 3. These show a considerable amount of variation in 

 contour, some being as long as Say's types of S. oUiqun, shown in fig. 2. 

 Philadelphian examples do not attain a large size, rarely exceeding 16 

 or 18 mm. in length. It is a region of crystalline metamorphic rock, 

 deficient in lime, where the land shells generally run under the size 

 usual in New York or the West. The color is yellowish green, and the 

 shell very thin. 



This type of shell is widely distributed, from Ontario to the mountains 

 of North Carolina and west to Minnesota and Missouri. 



Fig. 3. — Succinea ovalis Say. Fairmount Park, Pliiladelphia. Nat. size. 



In the examples of S. ovalis taken at Chittenango Falls the upper part 

 of the spire in living animals is whitish with a papery appearance, the 

 last whorl is pale buff, becoming olivaceous and dusky over the lung. 

 This is in some examples more or less obscured by a gray network, 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



marked with some black blotches, but in others there is a pattern of 

 black streaks very much like that of S. ovalis chittenangensis. See PL 

 VII, figs. 9, 10, 11, (No. 90,084, 90,085 A. N. S. P.) 



Succinea ohliqua Say, 1824, also was described from Philadelphia, 

 two cotypes mounted on the cards used by Say, and inscribed with his 

 autograph label, being still preserved. They are photographed in fig. 2. 

 These specimens have the spire longer than in ovalis, the suture more 

 oblique, but are otherwise very similar. They are greenish-yellow, 

 though not quite so green as ovalis, and the abundant series of other 

 Philadelphian specimens before me leaves no doubt that they inter- 

 grade perfectly with Philadelphian ovalis. It will not, I think, be 

 possible to use the name ohliqua in a varietal or subspecific sense, 

 though it might be used to indicate the elongate phase or form which 

 the species often assumes, if a name for that be desired.^ It must be 

 understood, however, that the longer phase occurs with the shorter 

 typical ovalis, and is fully connected therewith by intermediate 

 individuals in the same colonies. 



The synonyms of S. ovalis, and early references thereto discussed 

 above, here follow : 



Succinea ovalis Say, Journ. A. N. S. Phila. I, 1817, p. 15. Ferussac, 

 Tabl. Syst., 1821, p. 26; Hist. Nat. MoU. Terr., PI. XIa, fig. 1 (not S. 

 ovalis Gould). 



Succinea ohliqua Say, Major Long's Second Exped., II, 1824, 260, PL 

 15, fig. 7. DeKay, New York Fauna, Moll., p. 53, PL 4, fig. 53. 

 Binney, Terrestr. Moll., II, p. 69. 



Succinea campestris Gould, Invert, of Mass., 1841, p. 195, fig. 126. 

 DeKay, New York Fauna, Moll., p. 53, PL 4, fig. 54 (not S. campestris 

 Say). 



Succinea totteniana Lea, Proc. Am. Philos. Soc, II, 1841, p. 32. 

 Succinea ovalis optima n. subsp. Fig. 4. 



In many localities from New York to Minnesota and Iowa a form 

 much more robust than typical ovalis is found. The shell has coarser 

 wrinkle sculpture, and yellow predominates rather than green. The 

 contour is about that of the larger examples of ovalis (such as those Say 

 called S. ohliqua), but varies to nearly or quite as broad as typical 

 ovalis. The suture is deep, and at the last whorl oblique. The 

 largest specimens I have seen are from the type locality, Crugers Valley, 

 near Upper Red Hook, Duchess Co., N. Y., collected by Mr. W. S. 

 Teator. Two of them measure : 



^ S. greeri Tryon has been quoted as a synonym of aS. ohliqua, but it is certainly 

 distinct from that species. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Length 26, diam. 16, length of aperture 18 mm. 

 " 25 " 13.5 '' " 17.5 " 



This size is not often reached . In the middle West a length of 20 mm, 

 is near the maximum, and the size of some individuals which seem to 

 be adult is not greater than the largest of the typical form of S. ovalis. 



Fio;. 4. — Succinea ovalis optima. Xat. size. 



This large race is what has commonly been called S. obliqua Say, but 

 the true obliqua is merely the longer phase of typical ovalis, and the 

 name is not fairly applicable to the form above described. I have 

 not examined the living animal of this race. 



I picked up a single bleached specimen of S. o. optima on the beach at 

 Galveston, Texas, in 1886. It had probably floated there, as I do not 

 think it exists in the Austroriparian zone. 

 Sucoinea ovalis ohittenangoensis n. subsi.. Pl. VII, figs. 1 to 8. 



The shell is yellow or pinkish-yellow, much lengthened, with a longer 

 spire than any other race of S. ovalis; suture deep; whorls 3^, the last 

 rather flattened above, not so convex there as in S. ovalis or S. o. 

 optima. Aperture very oblique, relatively small. 



Length 22.5 diam. 11.5, length of aperture 14 mm. (No. 90,087). 



" 23.3 " 11.3 " '' 14 " (No. 90,081). 



" 21 " 11.3 " '' 13 " (No. 90,079). 



'' 19 " 10.5 " " 12 " (No. 90,083). 



Cotypes from a sloping weed-covered talus near the foot of Chitten- 

 ango Falls, Madison Co., N. Y., No. 90,087, 90,081 and 90,079, A. N. 8'. 

 P., collected August 27, 1905, by Messrs. Henderson, Walker, Clapp and 

 Pilsbry. 



A very large series was taken, associated with a few S. ovalis, from 

 which they are easily separated by the characters given above. I have 

 seen this form from nowhere else. The locality is on the Onondaga 

 limestone (coniferous). 

 4 




50 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



In the living animal the mantle as seen through the shell is pale yellow 

 with a slight olive tint, olive over the lung; the apex is more or less 

 ruddy. This ground is profusely striped and blotched with black on the 

 last H whorls, as shown in figs. 1 to 5. Over the kidney the black 

 blotches are interrupted and the ground tint is lighter, making a light 

 streak across the whorl, partially seen in figs. 2 and 5 at the right upper 

 portion of the last whorl. Very exceptionally the black blotches are 

 almost absent, as in figs. 6, 7, 8. Fig. 8 represents the least marked 

 individual seen, and probably to be regarded as a case of partial 

 albinism. The lower edge (collar) of the mantle is gray peppered with 

 white dots. The foot is pale yellowish, back and flanks gray with 

 slate tesselation, tentacles slate. The posterior end of the foot is 

 somewhat blackish above. All figures of plate VII were drawn from 

 living animals. In alcohol the black and gray pigment remains, but 



S. ovalis chitlouuiijuciisis. 



the yellow tint is fugitive. The pattern of pigmentation of the lung 

 has clearly been influenced by a tendency of the markings to follow 

 veins; but in many specimens this tendency has been lost to a great 

 extent. 



Summary. (1) Succinea ovalis Say was based upon Philadelphian 

 specimens of the form subsequently described as S. totteniana Lea. It 

 was well figured by Ferussac from examples sent by Say, as early as 

 1822. The proportion of aperture to length given by Say applies to no 

 other Succinea of the region about Philadelphia. (2) Succinea ovalis 

 Gould, 1841, is a totally different species, which was described as S. 

 retusa by Lea in 1837. The true identity of S. ovalis was recognized 

 by Dr. Binney in 1851. (3) Succinea ohliqua Say, 1824, was based 

 upon elongate specimens of S. ovalis Say, also from Philadelphia. It 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



is an absolute synon5TTi of S. ovalis. (4) S. totteniana Lea and Binney 

 is absolutely identical with the typical S. ovalis Say. 



Explanation of Plate VII. 



Figs. 1-S — Succinea ovalis chittenangoensis n. subsp. 1, 2, No. 90,081 A. N. S. P.; 



3, No. 90,079; 4, 5, No. 90,080; 6, No. 90,083; 7, 8, No. 90,082. 

 Figs. 9~n— Succinea ovalis Say, Chittenango Falls. 9, 10, No. 90,085; 11, No. 



90,084. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



NOTES ON SHARKS. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The species included in this paper are based on material contained in 

 the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 unless otherwise stated . 



HEXANOHID^. 

 Hexanchus griseus (Gmelin). 



A dried skin without data. 

 Heptrauchias cinereus (Gmelin). 



Head 6f to 6^ ; depth 10 to lOf ; snout 3 in head ; eye 4 to 4| ; length of 

 mouth 2^ to 2 J ; interorbital space 3^ to 3f ; front margin of first dorsal 

 2| to 2f ; front margin of anal 3f to 4|-; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 4; front margin of lower caudal lobe 2 to 2^; length 32^ to 35^ inches. 

 Two examples from Italy (C. L. Bonaparte, No. 245). 



Also 2 dried skins without data, the larger 44^ inches long. 



HETERODONTIDiE. 

 Heterodontas japonicus (Dumeril). 



Head 5i; depth 7j; depth of head If in its length; width of head 1^; 

 height of first dorsal If; height of second dorsal 1^; height of anal If; 

 lower caudal lobe 1|; pectoral 4f ; tail 4|- in length of body; width of 

 pectoral H in its length. Color in alcohol deep brown with obscure 

 scattered brown spots on trunk, which are however rather sparse. 

 Length 28 inches. No data. 



Also jaw of another, from Japan in 1891 (Frederick Stearns). 



SCYLIORHINIDJB. 

 Foroderma stellare (Linnaeus). 



Head 7f to 8^; depth 8t to 14 ; snout 2^ to 2f in head ; eye 3f to 4f ; 

 width of mouth 2 to 2f ; interorbital space 2^ to 2f ; first dorsal 1^ to 

 1|; second dorsal 1| to 2^; anal If to 2^; caudal from origin of lower 

 lobe 3f to 4f in rest of body; length 6 to 18 inches. Eleven examples. 

 Italy (Bonaparte). Also 2 dried skins, Nos. ^ and ^, with same- 

 data. 



Two other dried skins without data. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



This genus must now be known by the above name, as Dr. Gill's 

 specification of Catulus stellaris Smith as the type of Catulus^ is not 

 admissible. Under Catulus three species are included by Smith, viz.: 

 Squalus canicula Linn., Scyl. marmoratum Bennett, and C. edwardii 

 Smith. The first of these is here considered as the type, thus allowing 

 it to fall a synonym of Scyliorhinus Blainville. The type of Poro- 

 derma Smith may be considered its first species, Squalus africanum 

 Gmelin. 

 Galeus melastomus Rafinesque. 



Head 6yV to 7; depth 10 to 14|; snout 2 to 2f in head ; eye 3f to 4f ; 

 width of mouth ly^o to 2f ; interorbital space 2 to 2f ; first dorsal If to 

 2|; second dorsal If to 2f ; base of anal 1 to If; caudal from origin of 

 lower lobe 2^ to 3f in rest of body; length 7 to 18|- inches. Ten 

 examples. Italy (Bonaparte, No. 253). 



Also 3 dried skins without data. 



The above generic name may be adopted for this genus, as Rafinesque 

 includes but two species. They are G. melastomus and Squalus uyato, 

 of which the first may be considered the type. If his intention was to 

 have made S. galeus Linnaeus his type he certainly has missed the 

 opportunity, as that species is not even mentioned, and the inference 

 may be only surmised by reference to his Ind. It. Sicil., 1810. 

 Pristiurus Bonaparte is thus superseded by Galeus Rafinesque. 



HEMISOYLLIID^. 

 Chilosoyllium indicum (Gmelin). 



Three examples from Padang (C. H. Harrison, Jr., and H. M. HiUer), 

 Sumatra. Color when fresh in arrack more or less uniform dull brown, 

 lower surface of head, abdomen, and bases of pectorals and ventrals 

 dirty cream-white. The largest 21 inches long. The youngest with 

 very distinct markings. One specimen now in Stanford University. 

 Oreotolobus japonicus (Regan). 



One example without data. The Japanese material called 0. 

 harbatus by Jordan and Fowler^ is this species. 



GINGLYMOSTOMID^. 

 Ginglymostoma cirratum (Gmelin). 



One from St. Martin's (R. E. Van Rijgersma), W. I. Three other- 

 dried skins, and one alcoholic, may have the same data. They are all 



1 Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., 1861, p. 41. 



2 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, 1903, p. 606. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



uniformly brown and without spots. The largest is but a little over 2 

 feet in length. The St. Martin's example shows: Head 5h; width of 

 head about 1 in its length; snout If; eye 8; width of mouth about 3; 

 interorbital space If; buccal cirrus 6; front margin of first dorsal about 

 1^; of second dorsal If; of anal If; pectoral 1^; ventral If; least depth 

 of caudal peduncle 4f; length about 23 inches. 



Two other examples, probably the Squalus punctatus Schneider, one 

 evidently from St. Martin's (Rijgersma), W. I., and the other from 

 Tortugas (James Roosevelt), Fla. Both are rather sparsely spotted 

 with deep brown. Head 5*; depth 7f to 8; snout 1| to 2 in head; 

 width of mouth 2f to S^; interorbital space If to If; front margin 

 of first dorsal If to If; of second dorsal If to 1|; of anal 2; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 4^ to 5; pectoral 1^ to If; ventral 1| to 2; 

 length 12 1 to 14| inches. 



In the preliminary account of this genus by Miiller and Henle^ no 

 species is mentioned, though Drs. Jordan and Gilbert have designated 

 Squalus cirratus Gmelin* as its type. Miiller and Henle's next account 

 includes species.^ Dr. Gill designates "Type Ginglymostoma con- 

 color,"^ which may be assumed to be congeneric with the species of the 

 present group, though somewhat confusing as Nebrius Riippell (its 

 type N. concolor Riippell) was admitted to Ginglymostoma by Dr. Gill 

 himself. 



CAROHARIID^. 

 Carcharias littoralis (Mitchill). 



Head 5; depth 8f ; length of first dorsal 2 in head ; of second dorsal 

 2\; of anal 2f ; of lower caudal lobe 2^; pectoral If; tail 12^- in length of 

 body; entire length 44^ inches. Nantucket (B. Sharp), Mass. 



Head of a large example from Sea Isle City (W. J. Fox), and jaws 

 from Townsend's Inlet (J. D. Casey), N. J., latter wrongly confused 

 by me with Lamna cornuhica'' Also 3 other pairs of jaws without 

 data. 



ALOPIID^. 



Alopias vulpes (Gmelin). 



Head 8f ; depth 8f ; width of head If in its length; depth of head 1-J; 

 snout about 3^; eye about 6; width of mouth 3; interorbital space 2f ; 



3 Wiegm. Arch., 1837, p. 396. 



* Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 16, 1882, p. 18. 



« Syst. Besch. Flag., 1838, p. 23. 



« Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., 1861, p. 40. 



"> Rep. N. J. State Mus., 1905, p. 56. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



front margin of first dorsal If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; 

 ventral lyV; about 38 series of teeth in upper jaw and 28 in lower; 

 pectoral reaching + to ventral, and its greatest width 2 in its length. 

 Color in alcohol dull gray-brown, more or less uniform, lower surface 

 of trunk and head, also of pectoral and ventral, a little paler. Dorsals 

 and caudal like back. Iris pale slaty-gray. Length 49 inches. New- 

 port, R. I. J. C. Dunn. 



Also a large dried skin (Bonaparte ^), probably from Italy? 



liAMNID^. 



Isurus oxyrinclius Rafinesque. 



Jaws of a large example, evidently this species, without data. 

 Possibly from Italy? 



Lamna oornubica (Gmelin). 



Head about 5 ; depth about 6 J ; snout about 2f in head ; eye 7| ; width 

 of head about 3; gape of mouth 2^; interorbital space 3f ; height of 

 first dorsal 2f ; length of second dorsal 4f ; of anal 4|; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 9; greatest width of caudal peduncle 4^; front margin 

 of lower caudal lobe H; pectoral 1^; ventral 3. Color in alcohol dull 

 gray-brown on upper surface of body, and pale or whitish below, line 

 of demarcation along side of caudal peduncle sharply defined. Dorsal 

 and upper surface of caudal like back, lower pale like belly, though with 

 more or less grayish. Upper surface of pectoral like back, lower paler 

 like belly. Ventral and anal pale, slightly with grayish. Iris pale 

 olive-gray, eyeball whitish. Teeth whitish. Length 27^ inches. 

 Italy (Bonaparte). 



OETORHINID^. 



Cetorhinus maximus (Gunner). 



Although there is no example in the collection, a large dried mounted 

 skin, said to have been taken in Monterey Bay, Cal., was exhibited in 

 Philadelphia several years ago, and was examined by Mr. Witmer 

 Stone and myself. 



GALEORHINID^. 

 Cynais canis (Mitchill). 



Nantucket (Sharp), ]\Iass.; Newport (J. Leidy and S. Powel), R. I.; 

 Sea Isle City (Fox), Atlantic City (C. W. Buvinger, G. W. Tryon, Jr.), 

 and Great Egg Harbor Bay (Leidy), N. J.; E. Coast U. S. (Smiths. 

 Inst.); Italy (Bonaparte). 




55 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Mustelus mustelus (Linnaeus). 



(M. equestris Bonaparte, Icon. Faun. Ital., Pesc. Ill, pt. 2, vii, 1834, descr., 

 PI., fig. 2, mari d'ltalia.) 



Head 6^; depth about 9; width of head 1| in its length; depth of 

 head at posterior margin of eye 2^; snout measured to eye 2f ; eye Sf; 

 width of mouth 2f ; interorbital space 2f ; width of internasal space 

 6|; front margin of first dorsal 1^; of second dorsal 1|; of anal 2|-; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 6f ; front margin of lower caudal lobe 

 2to i upper margin of pectoral lj\ ; front margin of ventral 2. 



Body very elongate, depressed in front, sides well compressed, and 

 tapering posteriorly into a long slender caudal, greatest depth about 

 origin of first dorsal. Edges of body rather slightly convex or de- 

 pressed, a very obsolete or shght median ridge down back most pro- 

 nounced on upper surface of caudal peduncle, and down postventral 

 and postanal regions a well-developed deep median groove. Caudal 

 peduncle slender, compressed, and its least depth about If in its 

 length. 



Head well depressed, profiles tapering similarly, and as viewed above 

 rather elongate wdth somewhat attenuately convergent margins though 

 tip rounded. Snout broadly depressed, edge rather trenchant, and 

 its length but a trifle less than its width. Eye elongate, large, laterally 

 superior, and placed about midway in length of head. Mouth rather 

 broad, symphysis of mandible slightly in front of anterior margin of 

 eye, and rami would nearly form a right angle. Lips thin and hardly 

 developed. At angle of mouth externally a rather long fleshy fold 

 forming a well-developed flap projecting posteriorly, and though 

 groove distinct posteriorly around it, it extends but very little along 

 outer margin anteriorly. About 55 series of blunt tubercles or pave- 

 ment-like teeth in each jaw. Buccal folds rather narrow. Tongue 

 large, broad, its surface minutely asperous, and edges all free and sharp. 

 Nostrils large, well separated on each side of snout below, near last 

 third in length of latter measured to eye, and each with a well-developed 

 flap. Interorbital space broad, well depressed, and but very slightly 

 convex. 



Gill-openings 5, last 2 over base of pectoral, and third deepest or 

 about 2 in interorbital space. Spiracle small, distinct, and placed 

 behind eye a space equal to about ^ its horizontal diameter. 



Body covered everywhere with minute shagreen denticles of uniform 

 size. 



Origin of first dorsal much closer to origin of pectoral than that of 

 ventral or a little nearer tip of snout than origin of second dorsal, its 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



apex forming nearly over its posterior basal margin, and a long slender 

 point projecting behind equal in length to width of mouth. Origin of 

 second dorsal a little nearer posterior basal margin of first dorsal than 

 origin of upper lobe of caudal, base of fin hke that of first dorsal well 

 elevated and fleshy, and fin otherwise similar with posterior point 

 about equal to eye horizontally. Caudal long and slender, origin of 

 upper lobe begins a little behind that of lower, and its distal expansion 

 about 3^ in its own length. Lower caudal lobe a little elevated below, 

 and length of its base about 1^ in entire length of upper. Anal inserted 

 a little behind middle of base of second dorsal, or a little nearer origin 

 of lower caudal lobe than tip of depressed ventral, and similar to second 

 dorsal, only smaller, posterior point equal to horizontal eye-diameter. 

 Pectoral large, upper margin rather evenly convex, reaching f to origin 

 of ventral, and its posterior margin slightly concave. Ventral inserted 

 about midway between origin of ventral and that of anal, rather 

 broad, and its lower margin a little concave. Clasper small, about 

 half length of posterior point. 



Color in alcohol dull uniform gray-brown above, merging into grayish- 

 white tint uniformly over lower surface of body. Upper fins like back 

 or with grayish, both pectoral and ventral paler below. Iris pale 

 brassy and pupil slaty. 



Length about 26 inches. 



No. 617, A. N. S. P., cotype of M. equeslris Bonaparte. Italy 

 (Bonaparte, No. 248). From Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Also Nos. 618 to 620, with same data. They show: Head 5^ to 6^; 

 depth 8^ to 10|- ; width of head If to If in its length ; snout 2 to 2J ; eye 

 4^ to 6^; width of mouth 3f to 3^; interorbital space 2^ to 2|; front 

 edge of first dorsal 1| to If; front edge of anal 1| to 2f ; pectoral 1 to 

 If ; length 10^ to 21f inches. The smallest example is uniform on the 

 back, like the larger ones, and is without any spots or markings. My 

 confusion of these examples with Galeorhinus galeus^ was due to the 

 original labels being evidently wrongly placed. I have verified this 

 by an examination of Bonaparte's original catalogue, where they are 

 also wrongly entered in the latter's own handwriting. 



Mustelus mento Cope. Fig. 1. 



(Proc. Am. Philos Soc. Phila., XVII, 1877, p. 47, Pacific Ocean at Pecasmayo, 

 Peru.) 



Head about 5; depth 7f ; width of head If in its length; snout 2^; 



eye 5J; width of mouth 3f; interorbital space 2f ; front margin of 



8 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 332, PI. 13, fig. 4 (anatomy). 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



first dorsal ly\; front margin of second dorsal 2f ; front margin of 

 anal about 3; front margin of lower caudal lobe 2h; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 6i; pectoral If; ventral 2^^. Body rather well com- 

 pressed, back elevated, edges rather rounded or convex, a very slight 

 median keel down back and a slight median depression down post- 

 ventral and postanal regions. Caudal peduncle slender, well com- 

 pressed, and its least depth about f its length. Head broad, depressed , 

 profiles similar, and when viewed above rather narrowly convergent 



Fig. 1. — Mustelus mento Cope. (Tj^ie 



with rounded tip. Edges of snout rather trenchant, and its length 

 equal to its greatest width. Eye elongate, and its center a trifle 

 posterior in length of head. Mouth moderately broad, symphysis 

 falling but a trifle before front of eye, and rami would form a right 

 angle. Lips thin and little free. At each corner of mouth a pointed 

 flap, free behind and with a rather long outer fold. Teeth pavement- 

 like, in about 50 series. Upper buccal fold papillose, with a slightly 

 ragged margin, not entire as stated previously, and narrow. Lower 

 buccal fold entire. Tongue rather pointed, its upper surface very 

 finely asperous, and margins free. Nostrils large, inferior, well 

 separated, about last third in snout measured to eye, and each 

 with a well-developed flap. Interorbital space convex. Body 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



everywhere minutely roughened. Origin of first dorsal nearly 

 midway between tip of snout and origin of second dorsal, 

 apex of fin falling about midway in its length, and posterior pointed 

 flap equals eye horizontally. Origin of second dorsal a little nearer 

 that of first dorsal than last caudal vertebra. Anal with its apex 

 about opposite its posterior basal margin. Upper lobe of caudal 

 begins a little after that of lower, and its distal expansion about 2|- 

 in its length. Lower caudal lobe a" little elevated in front, and its 

 height about 3f in its length. Pectoral reaches f to ventral. Ventral 

 inserted a trifle nearer origin of pectoral than posterior basal margin of 

 anal, and reaching a trifle more than half-way to anal. Color in 

 alcohol with under surfaces^of pectorals and ventrals grayish, other- 

 wise fins of more or less uniform tint of back. Iris pale yellowish- 

 brown, pupil dusky. Length 12i inches. No. 21,104, A. N. S. P., 

 type of M. mento Cope. Pacific Ocean at Pecasmayo, Peru (J. Orton). 

 Coll. of 1876-77. From Cope. 



Triakis felis (Ayres). 



Santa Barbara (U. S. F. C), Cal. 



I adopt Mustelus felis Ayres for this'species, as his name has evident 

 priority. His paper** was read December 4, 1851, which is in the 

 signature dated December 25. This was received by the Academy of 

 >fatural Sciences of Philadelphia on February 6, 1855.^° T. semi- 

 fasciatus Girard occurs in No. 6 of the same volume,^" which was else- 

 where" not acknowledged as having been received until February 20, 

 1855, and therefore this date may be accepted for its publication. 



Galeorhinus galeus (Linnaeus). 



Head 57; depth about 8-^; snout about 2^ in head; eye 5; length of 

 mandible 3; width of mouth 2^; tip of snout to mandible 2f ; inter- 

 orbital space 2j; front margin of first dorsal ly^^; of second dorsal Sf; 

 of anal 4f ; least depth of caudal peduncle about 5; pectoral If; ventral 

 3f; length 17f inches. Italy (Bonaparte, No. 254). The other three 

 examples are all smaller, the smallest 9 inches long and showing the 

 attachment of the placenta still in good preservation. These were 

 confused as Galeus mustelus by me, as already explained. 



Also a dried skin, without data, 44 inches long. 



« In Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., I. 



*° See Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., VII, p. xxii, in donations to the library. 



*^ New York Lye. Nat. Hist. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Galeorhinus zyopterus Jordan and Gilbert. 



(Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVI, 1883, p. 871, eiddently based on G. galeus 

 Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Ill, 1880, p. 42, San Pedro, 

 California; Jordan and Gilbert, I.e., p. 458, San Francisco, Cal.) 



Head 5y; depth 11?; width of head If in its length; depth of head at 

 posterior margin of eye about 2|; snout 2^; eye 4^; width of mouth at 

 corners 2 J ; interorbital space 21- ; front margin of first dorsal 2 ; of second 

 dorsal about 2; of lower caudal lobe If; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 5; upper margin of pectoral 1^; front margin of ventral about 5. 



Body elongate, slender, depressed anteriorly and tapering back 

 from head. Down middle of back, also middle of postventral and 

 postanal regions, a longitudinal groove. Caudal peduncle slender, 

 its least depth about 2^ in its length. 



Head broadly depressed, about equally so above and below, and as 

 viewed from above profile rather elongately convergent with rounded 

 tip. Snout well depressed, its edge but slightly trenchant, and space 

 between its own tip and front of mouth equal to width of latter. Eye 

 large, elongate, lateral and its center falling a trifle posterior in length 

 ■of head. Nictitating membrane large, well developed, and with a deep 

 pocket between itself and eye. Rami of mandible would nearly form 

 a right angle, though symphysis not quite extended forward till opposite 

 front rim of eye. Teeth pointed, mostly tricuspid, and directed to- 

 wards side of mouth, with outer cusp of each of lateral teeth best 

 developed. About 44? series of teeth in upper jaw. Buccal folds 

 rather well developed and papillose. Tongue large, broad, flattened, 

 rounded in front, and its edge free. Nostrils rather large, well separ- 

 ated or internasal space about half width of mouth, each with a small 

 fleshy point, and placed about last f in snout measured to front of eye. 

 Interorbital space broad, a little convex, and depressed medianly. 



Gill-openings 5, last 2 over base of pectoral, and third and fourth 

 largest or about If in eye horizontally. 



Body covered ever5r^'here with simple shagreen points of moderately 

 small and uniform size. 



Origin of first dorsal a Httle nearer that of second than tip of snout, 

 forming a rather rounded lobe with its apex just before posterior basal 

 margin of fin, and point of latter equals eye horizontally. Origin of 

 second dorsal nearer that of first than end of last caudal vertebra by a 

 space equal to width between outer edges of nostrils, apex of fin form- 

 ing about over middle of its length, and its posterior point about IJ 

 in eye horizontally. Origin of anal a trifle after that of second dorsal, 

 its apex forming about first third in its length and its posterior point 

 1} in eye horizontally. Origin of lower caudal lobe a little in advance 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



of that of upper, and height of fin at this point about 2f in length of its 

 base. Upper caudal lobe broad, its expansion at end nearly equal to 

 width of mouth or about 3f in its length. Pectoral broad, larger than 

 first dorsal, and reaching f to ventral, with posterior margin a little 

 incised. Ventral inserted a little nearer origin of first dorsal than that 

 of anal, and reaching f to origin of latter. Clasper equals posterior 

 anal point. 



Color in alcohol deep gray-brown on back, becoming paler gray on 

 sides, and lower surface whitish. Upper surface of snout pale brown- 

 ish. Teeth all whitish. Iris livid grayish and pupil slaty. Nictitat- 

 ing membrane pale like side of head. Dorsals pale brownish, upper or 

 outer portion of lobe dusky to blackish and posterior point becoming 

 very pale to whitish. Caudal pale brownish, end of upper lobe and 

 notch behind lower dusky to blackish, fin otherwise more or less pale. 

 Pectoral dusky or blackish above, pale to grayish below. Ventral and 

 anal whitish like lower surface of body. 



Length 12| inches. 



No. 582, A. N. S. P., cotype of G. zyopterus Jordan and Gilbert. San 

 Francisco, California (U. S. F. C. No. 27,190). 



Galeooerdo tigrinus Mailer and Henle. 



Head 6|^; depth llf; width of head If in its length; snout 3; width of 

 mouth 2^jj; space between tip of snout and front of mouth 4; inter- 

 orbital space If; pectoral H; base of ventral 4J; caudal nearly 2 in rest 

 of body. Body broad, depressed, and trunk rather slender posteriorly. 

 Caudal peduncle broad, and side from below second dorsal bluntly 

 keeled till opposite middle of lower elongate caudal lobe. Head 

 large, very broad, depressed. Snout broad, rounded. Length of pre- 

 oral region about f width of mouth. Eye anteriorly lateral, with 

 nictitating membrane. Mouth large, beginning well before eye, and 

 gape extends one diameter behind latter. Corner of mouth with long 

 outer fold. Teeth about |f, broad, compressed, directed laterally,, 

 finely serrated along margins, and with five small cusps externally. 

 Tongue broad, not free. Lips rather thin. Nostrils lateral, with 

 small flaps, and nearer front edge of snout than front of mouth. Inter- 

 orbital space convex. Anterior gill-openings large, third largest, and 

 last two over base of pectoral. Peritoneum silvery. Shagreen very fine. 

 First dorsal inserted opposite posterior basal edge of pectoral, with 

 sharp point behind, and height of fin a little less than base. Second 

 dorsal inserted about midway between caudal pits and origin of ventral. 

 A narrow median low keel along back between dorsals. Anal small, 

 inserted below first third of base of second dorsal, its margin deeply 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



concave, and with a sharp point posterioriy. Lower caudal lobe about 

 2f in upper. Caudal notch near tip. ■ Pectoral falcate, margin con- 

 cave and reaching posteriorly below posterior base of dorsal. Ventral 

 small, broad, obtuse, and inserted nearly midway between posterior 

 basal edge of first dorsal and origin of second dorsal. Color when fresh 

 in arrack slaty-gray, paler below. Upper surface of body and pectoral, 

 also dorsal and caudal, variegated with deep leaden-gray blotches, 

 and many of those on side of trunk more or less elongate and vertical. 

 Length 39^ inches. Padang, Sumatra (Harrison and Hiller). 



Very large jaws from Guaymas, Mexico; also a pair from Beesley's 

 Point.. N. J. (S. Ashmead) ; a pair from between Turk's Island and 

 Barbadoes (Dr. W. H. Freeman). 



Prionaoe glauca (LinnEeus). 



Head 5; depth about 10^; width of head about 2 in its length; snout 

 2f ; eye about 7h ; width of mouth about 3 J ; interorbital space 2f ; front 

 margin of first dorsal 2^ ; front margin of second dorsal 4§ ; front margin 

 of anal about 4; least depth of caudal peduncle about 7|-; pectoral If; 

 ventral 3^. Teeth with entire edges, and each lateral tooth of upper 

 jaw followed by about four cusps and in lower by one or two. Median 

 teeth in each jaw erect, smaller and with a single slender point. Color in 

 alcohol deep chocolate-brown on back and upper surface, and lower 

 surface pale creamy-white. Dorsals and caudal, except basally at 

 lower lobe, which is whitish, dark like back. Upper surface of pectoral 

 and ventral dark like back, though latter paler, and lower surfaces 

 grayish to whitish like belly. Entire lower surface of head whitish like 

 belly. Iris grayish-slaty, pupil pale. Length 23 inches. Italy 

 (Bonaparte, No. 250). 



Another dried skin, without data, is 48 inches long. 



Eulamia milberti (Miiller and Henle). 



One from Great Egg Harbor Bay (Dr. J. Leidy). 



The name Carcharias Rafinesque cannot be applied to this genus, as 

 the only species mentioned for it, and therefore its type, is taurus, a 

 sand shark identical with Agassiz's genus Odontaspis. Carcharhinus 

 Blainville^^ is next in order. It is based on commersonii, lamia, lividus, 

 iistus, heterodon, verus, broussonetii, glaucus, cceruleus, megalops, hetero- 

 branchialis, cornuhicus, monensis?, vulpes. Drs. Jordan and Gilbert 

 restrict the first species {commersonii) as its type, but all the evidence 

 shows it to be a nomen nudum, and their suggestion that it is based on 

 Lacepede's figure of Le Squale Requiii}^ seems only assumption when 



'=> Bull. Soc. Philomath., Paris, 1816, p. 121. 



" Hist. Nat. Poiss., I, 1799, pp. 165, 169, PI. 8, fig. 1. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



63 



judged from Blainville's work alone. If the next of Blainville's specific 

 names are considered, lamia is found first proposed as Carcharias lamia 

 by Rafinesque," without description or diagnosis, and simply as " (Squa- 

 lus carcharias Linnaeus). Carcaria lamia. Pesce Caine, Imbestinu, 

 6 Lamia." Thus it would be typified by >S'. carcharias Linnaeus, which 

 would upset Carcharodon of Smith, in which case I shall consider the 

 Squalus vulpes Gmelin the type of Carcharhinus Blainville. The next 

 generic name available is Eulamia Gill, which had best be adopted. 



^ 



■xj 



Fig. 2. — Eulamia odontaspis Fowler. (T;ype.) 



Eulamia odontaspis sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 51; depth 8f ; width of head about If in its length; depth of 

 head at first gill-opening If; snout 2f ; width of mouth 24: interorbital 

 space 2; front edge of first dorsal If; of second dorsal 2; of anal 2^; 

 of lower caudal lobe If ; least depth of caudal peduncle about 5 ; pectoral 

 1-^; ventral 27. 



Body depressed anteriorly, apparently rather robust, a slight median 



Ind. It. Sicil, 1810, p. 44. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



depression down back and another down postventral and postanal 

 regions, greatest depth about origin of dorsal. Caudal peduncle com- 

 pressed, and its least depth about 1| in its length. 



Head rather well depressed, profiles similar apparently. Snout well 

 depressed, rather short, when viewed above broadly convex, and its 

 length to front of mouth about f its width at that point. Eye small, 

 elongately ellipsoid, and its center about first f in head. Nictitating 

 membrane rather broad. In profile end of mandible a little l^efore front 

 rim of eye, as seen from below profile of symphysis rather broadly convex 

 in front, and its length f its width. No grooves at corners of mouth. 

 Teeth about ff?, similar in both jaw^s, without basal cusps, edges 

 entire, slender, compressed, of rather uniform size and sharply pointed. 

 Nostrils large, lateral, below on snout near last third of its length. 

 Interorbital space broadly convex. 



Gill-openings 5, second and third deepest or about 5 in head, and last 

 two over base of pectoral. No spiracle. 



Body covered with very fine shagreen, scarcely rough to touch. 



Origin of first dorsal about midway between tip of snout and tip of 

 posterior depressed point of second dorsal, and posterior point 2|- in 

 length of fin. Origin of second dorsal about an eye-diameter nearer 

 that of upper caudal lobe than posterior basal margin of first doi-sal, 

 and posterior point of fin 2f in its front margin. Caudal rather small, 

 upper lobe begins a trifle behind lower, and its length about 3f in rest 

 of body. A pit on caudal peduncle, both above and below, at origins 

 of caudal lobes. Anal begins very slightly behind origin of second 

 dorsal, and fin reaching H to origin of lower caudal lobe, tip of posterior 

 process not extending back bej^ond that of end of fin in front. Pectoral 

 broad, inserted rather low, and when depressed reaching about opposite 

 origin of first dorsal, its greatest width If in its length. Ventral 

 broad, its origin slightly behind tip of depressed dorsal, and depresserl 

 fin reaching If to anal. Claspers small. 



Color of dried skin dull brown generally, lower surface scarcely paler. 

 Fins all unicolor. 



Length about 20f inches. 



Type No. 34,634, A. N. S. P. No data, but probably from the 

 Indian Ocean? 



This interesting specimen is probably identical with Day's figure of 

 Carcharias ellioti}^ His description, however, differs in the outer 

 labial groove, serrated teeth with basal cusps, first dorsal beginning 



' Fishes of India, IV, 1880, p. 716, PL 189, fig, 



2 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



behind base of pectoral with its base being nearer latter than ventral, 

 inner margin of pectoral ^ of its outer and fin reaching below end of 

 base of dorsal, anal below last f of second dorsal, and caudal 3f in 

 total. His figure of a skin, 6 feet long, differs in some minor details 

 from my example, which however may be due to age. 



('Oduf, tooth, 'fiCTTTif, scale; hence Odontaspis, an old generic name 

 applied to the sand sharks, and here used with reference to the super- 

 ficial resemblance of this species.) 



Eulamia longimanus (Poey). 



Head about 6| ; depth 81; width of head If ; snout 2f in head ; width 

 of mouth 21; interorbital space ly\; height of first dorsal 2f ; of second 

 dorsal 7f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 4; lower caudal lobe 2|-; 

 pectoral 1-J-; ventral 2f ; upper caudal lobe 3f. Teeth all finely ser- 

 rated and upper but little notched on outer margins. Dorsal inserted 

 just after base of pectoral. Width of pectoral 2 in its length. Length 

 39 inches. Dried skin without data. 



Jaws of large example from West Palm Beach (G. B. Wood), Fla., in 

 1907. Another pair of jaws from the Gulf of Florida (Dr. G. Watson) 

 is probably this species. 



Eulamia menisorrah (MuUer and Henle). 



Head 6|-; depth 8|; width of head If in its length; snout 2|-; width of 

 mouth 2f ; tip of snout to mandible 3 ; interorbital space 2 ; height of 

 first dorsal 1^; pectoral 1; length of ventral to posterior tip ly^j least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 4f ; caudal 3 in rest of body. Teeth without 

 serrations, each with several small cusps. Length 25|- inches. Padang 

 (Harrison and Hiller), Sumatra. 



Also a very young example with same data. Edge of first dorsal 

 very narrowly margined with black, also ends of second dorsal and 

 caudal. 



Eulamia oxyrhynohus (MuUer and Henle). 



Head about 4f ; depth 11^; width of its head 2f in its length; snout 

 about 2Jq ; width of mouth 2|; interorbital space 3f ; front margin of 

 first dorsal 2|-; of second dorsal 4; of anal about 4; of lower caudal lobe 

 2y^-o ; pectoral If ; length of ventral 3f; least depth of caudal peduncle 3^ 

 in snout; eye 8; upper caudal lobe equals head; length 17| inches. 

 Dried skin without data, though probably from Surinam? (Hering?), 



It differs a little from Miiller and Henle's figure, most likely in respect 



to age, in having insertion of first dorsal a little more posterior or 



opposite posterior basal edge of pectoral, depressed pectoral not 



reaching beyond posterior basal margin of first dorsal, depressed first 



5 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



dorsal reaching If to ventral, origin of anal slightly before that of 

 second doi-sal, and origin of ventral nearly midway between posterior 

 basal margin of first dorsal and origin of anal. 



Scoliodon laticaudus (Miiller and Henle). 



A small example, 7^ inches long. Straits of Malacca. It agrees 

 largely with Miiller and Henle's figure. 

 Scoliodon terrae-novse (Richardson). 



Bayport (Cope), Fla. 



Two dried skins, larger 38 inches long, are -evidently this species; no 

 data. 



SPHYRNIDiE. 

 Sphyrna tiburo (Linnseus). 



Newport (Powel) R. I.; St. Augustine (W. Blanding), Fla., in May, 

 1832. 



Sphyrna tudes (Valenciennes). 



Head 4|; depth 7; length of disk, along its posterior margin, | its 

 width transversely at second undulation; width of head just after 

 hammer 2-^-j^ in head; width of mouth about 3^; third gill-opening 

 5f; front margin of first dorsal 1^; length of second dorsal 2f ; of anal 2; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 4; pectoral If; ventral 2|. Teeth in 

 about 26 series in' mandible. Color in alcohol plain pale brown, a 

 little darker on upper surface of body and paler or whitish on lower. 

 Fins all grayish-brown. Iris slaty. Length 8 inches. Surinam 

 (Hering). 

 Sphyrna zygsena (Linnaus). 



Nantucket (Sharp), Mass.; Sea Isle City (W. J. Fox), Holly Beach 

 (Miss Edith Ives) and Grassy Sound (Fowler), N. J. ; Surinam (Hering) ; 

 Panama (W. S. W. Ruschenberger) ; Italy (Bonaparte, 251); Padang 

 (Harrison and Hiller), Sumatra. Also 4 dried skins T\ithout data. 



Sphyrna bloohii (Cuvier). 



Head 6f ; depth about 9f ?; least width of head behind hammer If 

 in its length ; greatest width of hammer 2f in its length, measured along 

 its inner margin ; least width of hammer 4 ; space between tip of snout 

 medianly and margin of upper jaw about 3 in head; width of mouth 2; 

 length of third gill-opening about 4; base of first dorsal 1^; entire length 

 of second dorsal about 1|; base of anal about 2\; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 3^; front margin of lower caudal lobe 1^; length of pectoral 1 ; 

 base of ventral 2f ; clasper If. 



Body long, slender, apparently little compressed, but rather rounded 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



or robust, greatest depth about origin of dorsal, and edges of body- 

 depressed or flattened. No very evident pits at origins of caudal lobes. 

 Caudal peduncle rather robust, scarcely compressed, and its least 

 depth 1^ in its length. 



Head moderately large, well depressed both above and below and 

 with evenly convex surfaces. Snout rather broadly depressed and 

 moderately short, as viewed from above front margin undulate with a 

 median emargination where tip would form . Each side of head produced 

 laterally into a very narrow^ long depressed hammer-like process with its 

 front margin much thicker than posterior, also former as viewed above 

 a little undulate in profile while posterior is nearly straight. Along 

 anterior margin of each hammer a rather deep groove, extending from 

 nostril half-way to median point of snout and distally to end of hammer. 

 Eye at anterior external lateral extremity of hammer, elongate, rather 

 small, and its horizontal diameter about 4-^ in distal expansion of 

 hammer. Nictitating membrane broad, conspicuous, and evidently 

 leaving a deep pocket on each side. Mouth broad, margin of upper 

 jaw rather evenly lunate or convex, and ramus of mandible would 

 form a very obtuse angle. Gape of mouth about f its width. No 

 groove at each corner of mouth. Teeth all moderately large, directed 

 laterally, entire, rather broadly triangular, and each with an external 

 notch, no basal cusps. About 28 series of teeth in upper jaw and 

 about 24 series in lower. Nostril inferior on hammer along its anterior 

 margin near basal fifth of latter, as measured along its posterior margin, 

 or about inner f of space between tip of snout and end of hammer. 

 Nostril furnished with but a slight flap. Top of head rather broadly 

 convex. 



Gill-openings, first a little nearer posterior margin of hammer basally 

 than origin of dorsal, last two over base of pectoral, and second and 

 third largest. No spiracle. 



Body covered entirely with very minute shagreen denticles of appar- 

 ently uniform size. On lower surface of hammer anteriorl}^ a number 

 of more or less conspicuous small pores. 



Origin of first dorsal nearer tip of snout than that of second or about 

 opposite first fifth in space between origin of pectoral and that of 

 ventral, fin high, falcate, apex forming above just behind its base 

 which is If in its height, and its posterior point about 3f in head. 

 Origin of second dorsal a little nearer that of first dorsal than end of 

 last caudal vertebra or about over middle of base of anal, base of fin 

 about I of its total length and long posterior point 3f in head. Origin 

 of anal a little nearer posterior basal margin of ventral than origin of 




68 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



lower caudal lobe, larger and also inserted well before second dorsal, 

 posterior point about If in its length and anterior lobe about equal to 

 length of base. Origins of caudal lobes nearly opposite(?), and distal 

 expansion of upper 7f in its length. Anterior lobe of lower caudal 

 lobe 2yV in length of latter. Upper caudal lobe 2J in rest of body. 

 Pectoral much smaller than first dorsal, interventral space about ^ 

 in length of fin, and greatest width about 2 in latter. In form pectoral 

 rather falcate and pointed and would reach about f of space to ventral. 

 Ventral inserted a little nearer origin of pectoral than that of lower 

 caudal lobe, fin low, its greatest height about last fourth of its length, 

 and clasper well developed. 



Color of dried skin deep dusky-brown over entire upper surface of 

 body, including dorsals and upper lobe of caudal. Upper surfaces of 

 pectoral and ventral of same tint. Entire lower surface of body pale 

 gray-bown, this also largely over remaining portions of fins, anal and 

 claspers. Teeth whitish. 



Length 50^ inches. 



Pondichery, India. June 9, 1840. Thomas Ryan. 



It differs from Cantor's figure^^ in the narrower and longer hammer. 



SQUALID^. 

 Oxynotus centrina (Linnceus). 



Head 5f to 5f ; depth 5f to 7|; width of head 1^ to 2 in its length; 

 depth of head 1|- to If; snout 2f to 3; eye 3f to 4; width of mouth 3f 

 to 4|-; interorbital space 2yV to 3; first dorsal spine 1^ to If; second 

 dorsal spine 1| to 1^^^; least depth of caudal peduncle 4; height of lower 

 caudal lobe 2 to 2|; pectoral 1 ; ventral 1|- to If; length 9|- to 12 inches 

 Italy (Bonaparte, No. 242). From Wilson. 



Also another, dried skin, with same data. No. ^. 



Squalus acanthias Linnseus. 



Castine (G. B. Wood) and Mt. Desert (Dr. H. C. Chapman), Maine; 

 Gloucester (U. S. N. M.), Mass.; Cape May (H. W. Hand), N. J.; Italy 

 (Bonaparte, No. 246). 

 Squalus blainville (Risso). 



Head 5^; depth 8 to Of; width of head If to H "^ its length; depth 

 of head at first gill-opening If to 2^; snout 2^ to 2f , measured from 

 front of mouth ; eye 3f to 4^ ; width of mouth 2^ to 2^^ ; interorbital 

 space 2f to 2f ; first dorsal spine 2f to 2|?; second dorsal spine 2| to 



" Quart. Journ. Calcutta Med. Phys. Soc, No. V, January 1, 1838, PI. 1. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



2f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 7 to 8|; pectoral lyV to If^; ventral 

 li to 1|; teeth in 26 series in jaw; length ISf to 26 inches. Italy 

 (Bonaparte, No. 249). Three examples. 



Entoxychirus uyato (Rafinesque). 



Head 4i; depth 8; width of head If in its length; snout 2f ; eye 3f ; 

 width of mouth 2| ; interorbital space 2f ; first dorsal spine 2| ; second 

 dorsal spine 3*; least depth of caudal peduncle 5|; pectoral If; ventral 

 2 ; teeth about f ^ ; length 20| inches. Italy (Bonaparte, No. 241). 



Centrophorus granulosus (Schneider). 



Head about 5i; depth about 7f; width of head about 1|- in its length: 

 snout 3; eye-cavity 4; snout to front of mouth about 2^; width of 

 mouth 3; interorbital space 2f ; first dorsal spine 4; second dorsal spine 

 4|-; least depth of caudal peduncle 6; pectoral 2 along front margin; 

 length of ventral 2^; teeth |^; length, dried, about 33^ inches. Italy? 

 (Bonaparte, No. 42). 



Also another example, dried, without data, probably same as above? 



Dr. Doderlcin included Squalus uyato Rafinesque" as a synonym of 

 this species. From the latter's very rude figure,^* though of course of 

 little value, one would be obliged to retain it under Squalus. 



Etmopterus spinax (Linnaus). 



Head 5yV to 5f ; depth about 6^ to 9f ?; width of head If to If in its 

 length ; snout 2|- to 3^ ; eye 3 to 5 (iris) ; width of mouth 2f to 2f ; space 

 between tip of snout and front margin of upper jaw If to If'o-; inter- 

 orbital space 2^ to 2f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 5f to 6^; height of 

 lower caudal lobe 3f to 3f ; pectoral ly^ to 2yV; ventral If to If; teeth 

 1^; length lU to 16| inches. Italy (Bonaparte, No. 243). Three 

 examples. 



Centre scyllium fabricii (Reinhardt). 



George's Bank (U. S. N. M.). A young example. 

 DALATIID^. 



Dalatias licha (Bonnaterre). 



Head 6^; depth 8f to 9; width of head If to 1|; depth of head about 

 If to 2|; snout 4f to 4^; eye, to edge of iris, Q^ to 7; space between tip 

 of snout and front margin of upper jaw 3f ; width of mouth 2f to 3f ; 

 interorbital space 2f to 3 ; length of first dorsal U to If ; length of second 



" Car. Nuov. Gen. Sicilia, 1810, p. 13. 



" Squalus uyaius Rafinesque, I.e., Pi. 14, fig. 2. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



dorsal If to If; least depth of caudal peduncle 6 to 6|^; height of lower 

 caudal lobe 2f to 2f ; pectoral 1^; ventral, without clasper, 1^^; length 

 32 J to 33| inches. Italy (Bonaparte, No. 240). Two examples. 



SQUATINID^. 

 Squatina squatina (Linnseus). 



Three from Italy (Bonaparte, No. 238) ; one from Bay of Naples (Dr. 

 H. C. Chapman); large example without data. 



Also three dried skins, without data. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF SQUALOID SHARK FROM JAPAN. 



BY CHIYOMATSU ISHIKAWA, PH.D. 



Squalus japonious Ishikawa, new species. 



Acanthias vulgaris Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Poisson, p. 304, PI. 135, 1850; 

 Acanthias vulgaris, Ishikawa, Prelim. Cat., p. 61, 1897. Not of Risso. 



Body elongate, slender, tail moderately tapering behind. Head 

 rather narrow; snout produced, pointed, upper surface flattened; 

 nostrils nearer mouth than tip of snout, nearly midway between angle 

 of mouth and tip of snout. Nasal flaps normally formed. 



Eyes large, lateral, situated nearer first gill-opening than end of snout. 

 Length of eyelid a little less than half distance from its anterior angle 

 to tip of snout. Spiracles large, closely posterior to and little above 

 eye, vertical diameter of spiracle slightly over one-third length of eye. 

 Spiracular valve not very fleshy. Narrow groove between posterior 

 angle of eye and lower border of spiracle. 



Mouth moderate, slightly curved, situated at about three-fifths 

 distance from tip of snout to level of first gill-opening. Upper Hp well 

 developed, lower closely attached to teeth within. Oral groove nearly 

 straight, deep. 



Teeth of upper jaw smaller than those of lower, and somewhat more 

 erect. Gill-openings in front of base of pectoral, and slightly above, 

 fourth and fifth gill-slits somewhat nearer together than preceding ones. 



First dorsal nearer to pectoral than to ventral, its origin somewhat 

 in advance of inner posterior angle of pectoral, midway between tip of 

 snout and origin of second dorsal; first dorsal spine slightly less than 

 height of fin ; posterior border somewhat emarginate and slightly pro- 

 duced. Second dorsal about midway between ventral and caudal, 

 smaller, posterior margin rather deeply emarginate, lower lobe moder- 

 ately produced ; spine as long as fin and longer than that of first. Both 

 spines triangular, without any lateral groove, but hinder margin 

 slightly hollowed out. Pectorals large, but shorter than head, reaching 

 beyond origin of first dorsal, its hinder margin moderately emarginate. 

 Ventrals midway between first and second dorsals; caudal lobes well 

 developed. Upper caudal groove triangular and ver}^ distinct; lower 

 rather inconspicuous. 



Scales very minute, closely set; each with a median keel which ends 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



in a point and with smaller ones on each side. Scales at extreme end of 

 snout granular, and without any keel. Lateral line distinct, 



Male copulatory organ large, with a hook-like appendage near 

 extreme end on inner side, and with another hook on outer side 

 proximally to the former. 



Three specimens were examined, two males bought at the Tokyo 

 market, and said to have been caught in the Sagami Bay, and a single 

 female from Kagoshima. They are in the Imperial Museum of Tokyo. 



The proportional lengths of different parts in a male specimen are 

 as foUows: 



6^ 



Total length 700 mm. 



Snout to nostril 42 " 



Snout to first gill-slit 120 " 



Snout to mouth 75 " 



Nostril to mouth 30 " 



Mouth to anus 276 " 



Diameter of body at first gill-slit 74 " 



Diameter at spiracles - . . . . 73 " 



Length of upper caudal lobe 132 " 



Length of lower caudal lobe 72 " 



Base of first dorsal 30 " 



Height of first dorsal 39 " 



First dorsal to ventral 43 " 



Base of second dorsal 24 " 



Height of second dorsal 26 " 



Second dorsal to upper caudal lobe 73 " 



Length of pectoral 88 " 



Breadth of pectoral 60 " 



Eye to dorsal end of first gill-slit 44 " 



Distance between nostrils 33 " 



Gape 36 '' 



Length of eye 26 " 



Length of oral groove 24 " 



Deepest part of oral groove 8 " 



Snout to eye 50 " 



First dorsal spine to second dorsal spine 230 " 



Eye to first gill-slit 45 " 



Snout to first dorsal spine 220 " 



Length of first dorsal spine 38 " 



Dorsal margin of dorsal fin 63 " 



Length of second dorsal spine 49 " 



Dorsal margin of second dorsal fin 47 " 



General Considerations. — Judging from the very scanty literature we 

 have, I am inclined to consider the present species to come nearest to 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



Acanthias hlainvillii of Risso, from which it differs only in the position 

 of the first dorsal, tlie origin of which Giinther gives as being placed 

 "conspicuously in advance of the inner posterior angle of the pectoral" 

 (Giinther, Catalogue of Fishes, Vol. VIII, p. 419, 1870), otherwise it 

 accords well with the description given by Miiller and Henle to this 

 species (Miiller and Henle, Plagiostomen, 1841, pp. 84-85), so that I was 

 rather inclined to regard our specimen to be the same species. Since, 

 however, the descriptions of these authors are very short, making the 

 identification of the species difficult, I have allowed myself to propose 

 a new name for our Japanese form. 



A fact of some interest regarding this species, however, is the 

 presence of two hooks attached to the copulatory organ in our forms, 

 whereas Miiller and Henle give it to be the generic character of Acan- 

 thias that the "Mannchen haben an der aussern Seite des Endes der 

 Anhange einen beweglichen, am Ende wenig gekriimmten Dorn oder 

 Stachel." Whether the second spine we fmd in our specimen does 

 exist in the specimens of these authors, or whether it was overlooked 

 by them, which fact is, judging from the otherwise very careful and 

 accurate descriptions of the German authors, very improbable, I am 

 at loss to form any definite opinions. In case, however, the first alter- 

 native proves to be the fact, then the specific distinction of our forms 

 is beyond any doubt. 



This species is well distinguished from the more common Japanese 

 species of this genus, Sqiialus mitsukurii of Jordan and Snyder. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ANIMAL NAMES AND ANATOMICAL TEEMS OF THE GOSHUTE INDIANS. 

 BY RALPH V. CHAMBERLIN. 



The Indians commonly known as Goshutes represent a tribe of the 

 great Shoshone family, now much reduced in numbers. At this time 

 the remnant of the tribe is gathered principally in two colonies, one 

 located in Skull Valley, Utah, and the other across the desert in Deep 

 Creek (Ibapah), near the Utah-Nevada border. Permanent camps 

 existed in these same places long before the advent of white settlers. 

 The Indians of these two colonies had a single tribal organization, the 

 last recognized chief of which, Ta'bi by name, died a number of years 

 ago. 



The Indians that formerly held possession of the region from Salt 

 Lake Valley to Weber Valley were close in language and customs to 

 the Goshutes proper; but they had a distinct tribal organization. 

 Their last chief, named Goship, is said to have been buried south of 

 Salt Lake City, near the present site of the State Prison. According 

 to the statement of survivors of this band, in the days of Goship's 

 prime, when he seems to have been renowned as a war-chief, his fol- 

 lowers numbered some thousands. Beginning with the advent of the 

 Mormon pioneers, however, a rapid decrease in this band occurred, so 

 much so that in a surprisingly few years it was practically extinct. The 

 principal agency in this decimation w^as certain diseases, brought by the 

 whites, to which the natives had never before been exposed , and to which, 

 as a consequence, they had acquired no special resistance. They died off, 

 it is said, by the hundreds. Almost overnight an entire camp would be 

 swept free of every living soul. In 1848, for example, an epidemic of 

 measles broke out among them. Ignorant of the proper treatment of 

 the disease, and not knowing whence it came, many assembled at the 

 Warm Springs north of Salt Lake City, and sought relief by bathing in 

 these waters. They died off in large numbers, as many as forty being 

 heaped in a single grave. The few individuals that now survive from 

 a once proud tribe have taken up their abode with neighboring tribes 

 and bands. The Goshutes proper, in the valleys to the west, also 

 suffered strong reduction. 



The languages of the Goshutes and of the Goships,.as we may con- 

 veniently and in accordance with their own usage designate the Indians 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



of the two chieftaincies above mentioned, are veiy close to that of the 

 Shoshones proper, much closer than to that of Utahs, notwithstanding 

 some M'idespread statements to the contrary. Between the dialect used 

 by the Goships and that of the more western bands the differences are 

 largely phonetic, certain sounds in one replacing certain ones in the other 

 with great regularity. Thus, ij at the beginning of syllables in Goshute 

 words commonly becomes n in the Goship. For example, ym'up, Goshute 

 for sternum, becomes nuYup in Goship; and, similarly, pai'ya, Goshute 

 for wasp, becomes pai'na. The names for less common animals or other 

 objects were occasionally quite different. Even between the Indians of 

 the Skull Valley and Deep Creek bands, between which there has been 

 continual intercourse and migration, certain phonetic differences in 

 language are found. Thus, the sound of z in the Skull Valley dialect 

 commonly changes to the sound of th in the Deep Creek; e.g., ma dzi'ka, 

 to cut, and madza'tua, to close, in the former, become respectively 

 ma dthi'ka and ma dtha'tu a in the latter. 



In the present paper I give a list of animal names and anatomical 

 terms used by these Indians. Wliere differences between the termin- 

 ology of the Goshutes and that of the Goships are known to exist the 

 different forms are given. Where no such difference is indicated the 

 term given is to be regarded as common to both in most cases. Many 

 of the names of animals are imitative, as is true of a larger number in our 

 own tongue than we commonly realize; a large number are descriptive 

 of feature or habit; while fewer have some legendary reference. No 

 effort is made in this place to present such philosophy as this people 

 had or has concerning the animal world, their animal legends, or their 

 many observations upon the habits and characteristics of the different 

 forms. Where the significance of a name is sufficiently clear the 

 analysis is indicated. Some of the names, because of age, seem to have 

 undergone changes, rendering analysis no longer possible. 



Certain endings and significant syllables occurring frequently may 

 be noted with ad^'antage. 



1 . The nominal ending -nump or -iimp is affixed to verbs to indicate 

 the means or instrument by which the actions represented by the verbs 

 are performed. For example: 



ha'vi nump, bed ; from ha'vi do, to lie down, and -niimp. 

 ti'tsi a nump, table-fork ; from ti'tsi, to stick into, and -nump. 



Less commonl}' it is used in the same sense as -up or -p as indicated 

 under 2, 



2. The ending -up or -p is used. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



(a) As a nominal ending indicating the object, substance or material 

 produced or involved- For example: 



tik'u'p, food ; from di'ka rro, to eat, and -up. 



pa' gin up, cloud ; from pa' gin, to produce water, and -up. 



(b) As an adjective ending. For example: 

 wi'do lip, leaky ; from ivi'do in, to leak, and -up. 



3. The particle na, used both as prefix and affix, designates a sup- 

 port, instrument or means. For example: 



na'dzi ta, walking cane ; from na, and dzi'ta, a stick or rod. 

 na'tze ya, handle ; from na and ma tze'ya, to carry. 



4. The particle do or rro is common 



(a) As an ending in verbs, particularly in those indicating personal 

 action. For example: 



ka'rri do, to sit down. 

 gits'hwai do, to chew. 



(6) As a nominal ending, designating the thing as the agent perform- 

 ing or the thing concerned in some action or object. For example : 



ma' si do, finger-nail; from ma, the hand (in compounds), si, indicating 

 extension in plate-like form, and do. 



5. ma, a particle indicating the hand or relation to the hand. For 

 example : 



ma' so gi, finger, 



mam'bi shu ga, to rub the hands together. 



6. da, a particle similarly indicating the foot or relation to it. For 

 example : 



da' so gi, toes. 



da'pi shu ga, to rub or scrape with the foot. 



7. tso, a particle often used as referring to or meaning the head. 

 For example : 



tso'ti gi nump, pillow ; from tso, ma tVgi, to place, and -nump. 

 tso' go tin, to bump the head ; from tso and go'tm, to strike. 



8. hi, a particle widely used to indicate life or part of a living body. 

 For example: 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



bi'a or hi, the heart, 



-bite, an affix frequent in animal names; as momfhitc, owl, and tu'ko- 



hitc, wildcat. 

 pam'hi, head ; from pam {pa, top, -m, adj. ending) and bi. 

 iim'pi, mouth. 



This particle was, it seems, formerly the ending in the names of some 

 parts of the body now designated by different terms, in some of which 

 the particle no longer occurs. Thus for head there was a more ancient 

 term, tso'pi, the first syllable of which is now alone used as indicated 

 under 7. Foot, now designated by namp, seems to have had another 

 name, da' pi; and similarly with hand, for which the present term moq 

 was apparently preceded by ma'bi or mam'bi. The firet syllables in 

 these are used in similar way to tso, as indicated under 5 and 6. 



9. wa as a verbal particle means to bend, to turn aside, to wriggle. 

 Probably secondarily it means to produce, etc. Hence in some 

 Shoshone dialects, used alone, it means infant, young. It is frequent in 

 names of animals, where its primary use would seem to be to indicate 

 a young animal, or an animal so regarded. 



ai'wa, a fawn. 

 wa'hi, a worm. 



10. T, s, ts, tc, tci, and k are noun endings, the exact force of which 

 need not be here discussed. 



11. N or m added to a noun converts the latter into an adjective. 

 For example: 



pa, water; pam, aquatic. 

 ni'wa, liver; ni'ivam, hepatic. 



When a merely phonetic difference exists between words as used in 

 Skull Valley and Deep Creek, the pronunciation of the former is fol- 

 lowed, that of the latter being readily derivable from it. The values 

 of the different letters as used in the present paper are indicated below. 



a, e, i and o when unmarked are given their usual long sound in 

 European tongues. 



a is sounded hke a in fat. 



e is sounded like e in met. 



i is sounded hke i in pit. 



u is sounded like u in butter. 



ii is sounded like ii in German miide or as u in the French lune. 



u is sounded like oo in boot. 



ai is sounded like ai in German Kaiser or i in bite. 




78 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



oi is sounded like oi in boil. 



q is sounded like ch in German lachen, Dach, etc. 



sh is sounded as in shell. 



tc is sounded like ch in English chance, or like c in Italian cicerone. 



rr is sounded with a roll as in the Spanish perro. 



n is sounded like ng in the English words sing, gong, etc. 



Other consonants have their usual force in English. 



English-Goshute. 



abdomen ; belly : 

 sap. 



bo'tsi (Deep Creek, in addition 

 to sap). 

 after-birth : 



ga'rrip. 

 animal : 



mi'a gwain. 

 ant (general term) : 



a'ni. 

 ant, red {Pogonomyrmex occi- 

 dentalis, var.) : 

 a'ni gwi tchuk. 



a'rran gotsabi (Goshute, D. C). 

 ant, black (Camponotus pennsyl- 

 vanicus, etc.) : 

 a'ni. 



a'rra si watc (Goshute). 

 This ant and related forms is 

 said to have been eaten 

 formerly by the western 

 Goshutes during times of 

 scarcity. The red ant, be- 

 cause of its strong taste, 

 was not eaten. The ants 

 were gathered by being 

 allowed to cover thickly a 

 hide spread over their nest, 

 and were then brushed off 

 into a suitable receptacle 



or bag. They were cooked 

 by being placed in hot ashes 

 in a wicker or other vessel. 

 ant, velvet {Mutilla, etc.) : 

 ga'go (Goshute, D.C.). 



This name means "grand- 

 mother." 

 antelope (Antilocapra americana) : 

 (a) female: kwa'ri. 

 (6) male: pi'u wants, 

 antenna (as of locust) : 

 ap. 



[a, process, horn, etc. + p.] 

 gwa'shi bu hu (this term was 

 applied to the long antennae 

 of the crayfish). 

 [gica shi, tail or tail-like ob- 

 ject + hu hu.] 

 anus: 

 gwi'ttits. 



[givi {kivi), a root meaning to 

 shoot forth, expel, etc. + 

 tuts, the latter likely com- 

 posed of to, designating a 

 tube-like object + is, nomi- 

 nal ending.] 

 aorta : 



Bi'a mo ko. 



[hi' a, heart + mo'ko.] 

 arm: 



bu'i do;bu'rro. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



1908.] 



avocet {Reciirvirostris americana) : 

 pa'rro gots; pa'do gots. 



[pa, water + rro or do {vid. 

 supra) + gots.'] 

 axilla; arm-pit: 



a'na. 

 axolotl (larva of Ambhjstoma) : 

 pa'bo go tci. 



[pa, water + ho (po) + go 

 tci.] 



B. 



back: 



gwai'unip ; gwai'um, 

 back-bone ; vertebral column : 

 gwai'o rra. 



[gwai'ump, back + o'rra, 

 trunk, stalk, etc.] 

 badger (Taxidea americana) : 



u'na. 

 bangs ; front hair : 



mo'pi hail ga sa (mo pai han ga 

 sa). 

 [Prob. mo'hi, nose + han'ga- 

 sa, general term for pend- 

 ent hair or locks, q. vid.] 

 bat (general term) : 



o'na bite, 

 beak; bill (of bird): 



mf tcu ga ; mi'tctig. 

 bear, general term : 



wu'da. 

 bear, black ( Ursus americanus) : 



(a) black: tu'wuda. 



[tu, from tu'o hit, black + 

 ivu'da.] 

 tu'mu su i; tu'miish. 

 [tu, black + mu'su i.] 



(b) brown: o'awuda. 



[o^a from o'a hit, yellow or 

 brown + wu'da.] 



79 



o'a mu su i ; o'a mush. 



[o'a, brown + mii'su i.] 

 oi'ya rro. 

 bear, grizzly ( Ursus horrihilis) : 

 a'shi wu da. 



[a'shi, from a ski hit, gray + 

 wu'da.] 

 to'sa wu da. 



[to'sa, from to'sihit, white, 

 gray + wu'da.] 

 beaver (Aplodontia rufa) : 

 ha'ni; a'ni. 

 pa'o unts; pa'o unts a ni. 



[pa'o, referring to water + 

 -Unts.] 

 bee, bumble (Bombus, various 

 species) : 

 i'bi mu. 

 pi'i bi mil. 



[pi'iip, big + I'hi niii.] 

 bee, honey (Apis mellifica) : 

 tai'bo pai na (Goship). 



[tai'ho, white man + pai'na, 

 wasp, bee.] 

 tai'bo pai ya (Goshute). 

 beetle (general term) : 

 i'sha gu ; i'sha gi a. 



[i'slia, wolf + gu, probably 

 from gi'a, to bite, to eat, 

 etc.] 

 Beetles are called "wolf's 

 food," because said to be 

 eaten at times by the coy- 

 ote and wolf, 

 beetle, wood-borer, larva of : 

 a'rruts (Goship). 

 u'o a bi (Goshute). 

 beetle, dung (Aphodius, etc.) : 

 kwi'tu bu i. 



[kwit'up, manure + hu'i.] 




80 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



beetle, lady-bird {Coccinella, etc.) : 

 ?a'ka na bun. 

 [a'ka, branch, etc, + na + 

 bun, thing resting or living 

 upon, etc.] 

 beetle, tumble-bug : 

 wo'tsa wan dl tci. 



[wo'tsa wan, to roll + bl tci.] 

 The name of these beetles is 

 given in reference to their 

 well-known habit of form- 

 ing balls of manure which 

 they roll often long dis- 

 tances before depositing 

 their eggs in them, 

 beetle, water-scavenger (Hydro- 

 philus) : 

 tu'ban di sip. 



[tu from tu^o bit, black -1- pa, 

 water + n, adjective end- 

 ing + (prob.) di'si, signify- 

 ing, from its composition, 

 to stick or press into, press 

 through, pass through, etc, 

 -\- p, nominal ending.] 

 The latter part of this name, 

 ban di sip, is a somewhat 

 general term applied to 

 various aquatic forms, both 

 animal and plant, 

 bile: 



ni'wam bui. 

 [ni wa, hver + m, adjective 

 ending -t- bu i.] 

 bile-duct : 

 ^si'gwa na di wok, 



{si'gwa + na'di wok, indicat- 

 ing a connecting tube or 

 cord, etc] 

 bird (general term) : 

 oi'tcu;hoi'tcu. _^^ 



bison {B. americanus) : 



(a) cow : tsa'kwitc u ; sa'kwitc-u . 

 ti'bi tci gwitc, 



[tVbi tci, true -f kwttch, 

 from kwitcen, a word now 

 commonly applied to the 

 domestic cow {Bos).] 

 (6) bull: po'ijin. 

 bittern, American {Botaurus len- 

 tiginosus) : 

 mo'piin gwi. 



This name is imitative of the 

 Spring song or "booming" 

 of this bird, which is well 

 represented by the repeti- 

 tion of these syllables six or 

 seven times, with the ac- 

 cent strongest upon the 

 second syllable and the 

 last one sounded least dis- 

 tinctly, 

 black-bird (general term) : 



pa'giin siik. 

 black-bird, red-winged (Agelaus 

 phoeniceus) : 

 puil'go pa gun suk. 



[pun'go, horse -j- pa'gUn siik.] 

 The name of "horse-black- 

 bird" is given to this 

 species, because observed 

 frequently to follow after 

 horses in fields in order to 

 work over the droppings, 

 black-bird, yellow-headed {Xan- 

 thocephalus icterocephalus) : 

 sai'pa gun siik. 



[saip, bulrush + pa'giin suk, 

 blackbird.] 

 bladder, urinary: 

 sip. 



[sip in strictness means the 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



81 



urine (q. vid.), but is also 

 apjDlied to the urinary sac] 

 si'mo guts. 



[sip, urine + mo guts, pouch 

 or sac] 

 blood : 



bu'up;bwap. 

 blood-vessel (vein or artery) : 

 bai'bup ; bai u bi ; bai. 



[bai, to fill or swell + bu'up, 

 blood.] 

 blue-bird, Rocky Mountain {Sialia 

 arctica) : 

 ho'ka du i; wo'kwa du i. 

 bob-white (Colinus virginianus) : 

 tai'bo hu i tcu. 



[taVbo, white man + hu'i tcu, 

 bird.] 

 ?wu'pa mu gi; wu'pa mu gi ga- 

 ha (Goship). 

 [wu'pa, probably from ma- 

 wu'pain, to beat -|- woo'gi, 

 with or without ga'ha.] 

 Not a native of but early in- 

 troduced into Utah. Thus 

 the first name, 

 bone: 



dzo'nip. 

 brain : 

 ku'bish. 

 tso'ku bish. 



[tso, pertaining to the head + 

 ku bish.] 

 bug, stink (Pentatomid) : 

 a'ka na buii. 



[a'ka, branch of tree, etc. + 

 na + bun, that which lies 

 or rests upon, etc.] 

 kwi'tii pi shu int. 



[kivit'up + manure + pi shu- 

 in + t.] 



This term, obtained from a 

 Deep Creek Indian, is not 

 in general use. 

 piii'uts. 



Of these three terms the first 

 is the standard, 

 bug, giant, water (Belostoma) : 

 ban'di sip. 



[pa, water -|- n, adjective end- 

 ing + prob. dX'si, to thrust 

 into, pass through, etc. -{- 

 P-] 

 butcher-bird {Lanius borealis) : 



tSfn'tso na. 

 butterfly (general) : 



hai'po rruil. 

 buttocks : 

 bi'ta go. 



caddis-worm : 

 pa'si wiit. 

 [pa, water.] 

 calf: 

 kwitc'en du a. 



[kwitc'en, cow 4- en du'a, 

 young one, etc.] 

 calf (of leg) : 



witc. 

 caribou (Rangifer) : 

 ?tu'pa rri a (Goship). 

 See Moose. 

 carp {Cyprinus carpio) : 

 tai'bo pS,n witc 



[tai'bo, white man + p&fi wXtc, 



fish.] 

 Called by this name because 

 introduced into the region 

 by white men. 

 carpus ; carpal bone : 

 pi'a ma tso ni. 




82 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[April, 



{pi'up, large + ma, pertain- 

 ing to the hand + tso'ni, 

 tso'mp, bone.] 

 cartilage : > 



si'no wi. 

 caterpillar (of Samia, Archippus, 

 etc.) : 

 pi'a ga. 

 caterpillar (various hairy forms) : 

 pu'i wa bit. 



[puH + wa'bi, worm.] 

 cedar-bird {Ampelis cedrorum) : 

 wa'wi tco go b!tc. 



centipede (Scolopendra; also Li- 

 thohius, etc.) : 

 tim'pin to go a. 



{tlm'pi, stone, etc. + n, 

 adjective ending + to' go a, 

 rattlesnake.] 

 cerebellum : 

 te'e ku bish. 



{te'e, small + ku'bish, brain, 

 nerve material.] 

 cerebrum : 

 pi' a ku bish. 



[pi'up, large + ku'hXsh.] 



chickadee, black-capped (Parus 

 atricapillus) : 

 i'jugi. 



[Imitative.] 

 chickadee, mountain {Parus mon- 

 tanus) : 

 a'ni ki. 



[Imitative.] 



The call of this bird is repre- 

 sented by the Goshutes as j 

 a'ni ki, kt, ki, etc. 

 cheek : 

 sob. 



chin : 

 gi'pin go. 



[gl'pift, pertaining to mouth 

 -1- go, bending round, angle, 

 etc.] 



chipmonk ( Tamias lateralis) : 



hoi. 

 chub (Leuciscus) : 



wi'tca p&n gwitc. 



cicada, two-year, or dog-day har- 

 vest fly {Cicada tihicen) : 

 gi'a;gu. 



The cicada and its larvae 

 were formerly used as food 

 when abundant. They were 

 placed in holes lined with 

 hot stones, covered, and 

 allowed to remain thus 

 until cooked. 



cicada, seventeen-year {Cicada 

 septendecim) : 

 ta'bi da. 

 clam, fresh-water (Anodonta) : 

 wa'go tin du ru a. 



[wa'go, frog + un, article + 

 du ru a, child.] 

 wa'go (short for that above) . 

 clam-shell : 



wa'go tin kar ni. 



[wa'go, short for clam + lin, 

 article + kar'ni, house, 

 enclosure, etc.] 

 clavicle : 

 o'ko. 



tso'ni wok. 

 claw. See finger-nail, 

 coccyx: 



gwa'shi tso nip. 



[gwa'shi, tail + tso'rvip, bone.] 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



83 



colt: 



puii'go en du a. 



[piifi'go, horse + en or iin + 

 du a, young one.] 

 comb : 



2,n'ka go si up. 



[afi'ka hit, red + go si up.] 

 cow {Bos) : 

 kwitc'en. 

 cow-bird (Molothnis ater) : 

 pa'su urn pa gun suk. 



[pa^su ump, sand + pa'gun- 

 suk, black-bird.] 

 coyote {Canis latrans) : 



i'ju pa. 

 crane, blue. Sec blue heron, 

 crane, northern l^rown {Grus cana- 

 densis) : 

 ko'rra. 



[Imitative.] 

 crane-fly {Tipula, etc.) : 

 i'ju pa mo po. 



{i'fu pa, coyote + mo'po, 



mosquito.] 

 This name, "Coyote mos- 

 quito," is legendary. 

 pi'a mo po (not approved). 

 [pi'a, big -I- mo po, mosquito.] 

 cray-fish : 

 pa'to go bi. 



[pa'to + go'hi, face.] 

 cricket, black {Anahrus simplex) : 

 ma'so. 



These crickets, in particular, 

 were formerly regularly 

 eaten when abundant, be- 

 ing roasted in pits lined 

 with hot stones and cov- 

 ered (vid. under Cicada). 

 Sometimes they were eaten 

 without previous cooking. 



During certain seasons this 

 form occurred in vast 

 swarms or "armies," at 

 such times furnishing an 

 easily obtainable, abund- 

 ant and relished food-sup- 

 ply. It is likened by the 

 Goshutes to the shrimp, 

 which, indeed, they term 

 the "fish-cricket" (ma so- 

 panwitc). This cricket and 

 the Cicada, which occurred 

 in similar abundance, were 

 apparently the most impor- 

 tant sources of Arthropod 

 food. 

 cricket, common {Gryllus) : 



tsu'rru pmtc (Goship). 



tsu'du kum bite (Goshute). 



tsin'a pintc (Go.shute). 



ti'da kum. 

 crow (Corvus americanus) : 



hai. 

 curlew (Murenius longirostris) : 



ko'hwi (Goship). 



ko'ki (Goshute). 

 [Imitative.] 



D. 



deer, black-tailed or mule : 

 (a) general term: so'ko rri. 

 (6) male : so'ko rri tin gu um pa. 

 [so'korri + un, article + gu- 

 um pa, male, mate.] 

 deer, white-tailed or Virginia 

 (Odocoileus virginianus) : 

 jo'gwi. 

 deerskin : 



so'ko rra em bur. 



[so'korri, deer + em bur, hide.] 




84 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



dew-claw: 

 ma'bin tea, 



[ma'hin, pertaining to the 

 hand, etc. + tea.'] 

 diaphragm : 



a'bo. 

 dipper or water ouzel {Cinclus 

 mexicanus) : 

 pau'witcu; pau'oi tcu. 

 • [pa, water + oi'tcu, bird.] 

 During times of drought, the 

 Goships claim, rain may be 

 brought by grinding up the 

 flesh of one of these birds, 

 casting the same overhead 

 and pronouncing certain 

 sentences, 

 dog {Canis jamliaris) : 



sa'dcti; sa'rritc; sa'rri. 

 dove, mourning (Zenaidura caro- 

 linensis) : 

 ai'wi. 

 dragon-fly (general term) : 

 pa'ga mu tu nats. 

 [See humming-bird.] 

 duck (general term) : 



bu'i. 

 duck, black-head {Fulix affinis) : 

 tu'pam pi bu i. 



[tu, black + pam'bi, head + 

 hu'i.] 

 duck, golden-eyed (Glaucionetta 

 clangula americana) : 

 ko'ka pi gin. 



[Reference to whistle or whirr 

 produced by wings.] 

 duck, mallard (Anas boscas) : 

 pi'a bu i. 



[pi'up, big -1- hu'i.] 

 duck, red-head (Fuligula ferina 

 americana) : j 



M'ka pam pi bu i. 



[dn'ka, from cm'ka bit, red 4-, 

 pojm'pi, head + bu'i.'\ 

 duck, pin-tail {Dafila acuta) : 

 wo'vin gwa shi bu i. 



[ivo'vin, pole, sprout, etc. -f 

 giva'shi, tail -[- bu'i.] 

 duck, spoonbill or shoveller {Spa- 

 tula clypeata) : 

 so'a bu i. 

 duck, teal (general term) : 

 so'ko bu i. 



[so'kup, ground -1- bu'i.] 

 The name, "ground duck," 

 refers to the habit of these 

 ducks of nesting upon the 

 ground rather than among 

 rushes in water, 

 ti'sa bu i. 



[ti'sa, small + bu'i.] 

 duck, teal, blue-winged (Querque- 

 dula cyanoptera) : 

 M'ka so ko bu i, 

 ^n'ka ti sa bu i, 



[Hn'ka bit, red + so'ko bu i or 



ti'sa bu i, teal duck,] 

 The name refers to the cin- 

 namon-colored breast, 

 duck, wood (Aix sponsa) : 

 o'bin bu i, 



[o'bm, pertaining to wood 

 + bu'i.] 

 dura mater : 

 dzo'po a, 



[dzo, pertaining to the head or 

 brain(?) -|- bo' a, skin, etc.] 



eagle (general term) : 

 gwi'na. 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



85 



eagle, bald {Haliaius leucoceph- 

 alus) : 

 pa'si a. 

 eagle, golden {Aquila chrysoetos) : 

 pi'a gwi na. 



[pi'up, big + gwi'na.] 

 ear: 



nS,n'kus; naiik. 

 ear-hole : 



n^n'km dain. 



[ndn'kin, pertaining to the ear 

 + dain, hole.] 

 ear, lobule of : 

 nS,fi'km du a. 



[ndiVkin, pertaining to the 

 ear + du'a.] 

 earth-worm {Lumbricus, etc.) : 

 so'ko wa bi (Goshute). 

 pa'u wa bi ; pa'u hwiip (Goship). 

 [The first term consists of 

 so'kup, earth + loa'hi, 

 worm; the second of pa'u, 

 pertaining to water -\- 

 wa'hi (cf. German Regen- 

 wurm).] 



egg: 

 noi'ya. 



elbow : 



gip- 

 elk (Cervus canadensis) : 



(a) general term: pa'rra hi. 



(6) male : pa rri en gu um pa. 

 [pa'rri + gu'um pa, male, 

 mate.] 

 esophagus : 



diii'gi ok. 

 eye: 



bu'i ; bu. 

 eye-brow : 



gai'ba. 



eye, humor of : 

 bu'i pa. 



\hu'i, eye + pa, water.] 

 eye, lens of : 



bu'i rrin du ga. 

 eye-lash : 

 bu'rro sip. 



\bu'i, eye -f- rro -{- sip, that 

 which protrudes in plate- 

 or leaf-like form, etc.] 

 eye-lid : 



bu'i bo timp. 



\hu'i, eye + ho, cover, etc. -}- 

 limp.] 

 epiglottis : 

 ai'go bi shi a. 



[ai'go, tongue -[-hi + shi'a.l 



F. 



face: 



go'bi ; gob. 

 fat: 

 yuq. 



[so'yo hobui; so'yo ho bwi.] 

 fawn, young of deer : 

 ai'wa. 



[Probably ai, to spring or 

 leap, etc. + wa.] 

 feather : 

 shi'up. 



ga'sa gunt; ga'sa (applied 

 commonly to long wing 

 feathers. Cf. wing), 

 ferret, black-footed : 

 kwi'pu ka (Goship). 



[Said to be imitative, the cry 

 being represented as kwip, 

 kivip, kiDip.'l 

 The identification was from 

 figure and description of 

 habits. 




86 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



fetlock : 

 ma'pii. 



[7na, hand, paw, etc. + pii.] 

 fetus : 

 du'i tci. 



[du'a, child, j'oung + tci, tsi, 

 diminutive.] 

 fin (of fish) : 

 pa'wu gi. 



[pa, water + wu'gi, flail, etc.] 

 finch, Allen's rosy (Leucosticte 

 australis) : 

 kai'ma. 

 pi'a kai ma. 



[pt'wp, large + kai'ma.] 

 finch, crimson {Carpodoeus pur- 

 purea) : 

 kai'ma. 

 finger (general term) : 

 ma'su i ki. 

 ma'so gi. 



[ma, hand, pertaining to the 

 hand + su't ki or so'gi, 

 indicating things repeated 

 or of the same kind.] 

 finger : 



(a) index: ma'tsi tsuk. 

 (6) httle: ma'tu a. 



(c) middle or second : ma'ti bi- 



a ka. 



(d) third : tu'i ma tsi tsuk. 

 finger-nail ; claw : 



ma'si do. 



[ma, hand, pertaining to hand 

 + si'do, to protrude in 

 plate-like form, plate-like 

 object protruding.] 

 flesh, meat: 



du'ku ; tu'kwa. 

 fly, horse ( Tahanus) : 

 pi'pi ta. 



fl}^ horse, banded (Chrysopa) : 

 on'ti ya kwa. 



[on'ti, probably from 07i ti gait, 

 brown -|- ya'kwa.] 

 fly, house (Musca) : 



a'ni bo. 

 fly-catcher, yellow-bellied {Em- 

 pidonax flaviventris) : 

 pin'ji rrii. 

 fly-catcher, yellow-bellied striped 

 (Myodinastea luteiventris) : 

 an'i ta; wan'i ta. 



[an' go, timber, etc. -|- i'ta (cf 

 meadow-lark.)] 

 foot: 

 namp. 



[Apparently na, support, that 

 which is beneath and sup- 

 ports, etc. + ump, nominal 

 ending {rid. ante).] 

 forehead : 

 ga;gai. 

 foreskin : 



pa'skin ip. 

 fowl, domestic : 



(a) general: tai'bo ka um buil. 

 [tai'ho, white man -|- ka um- 

 huii.] 

 ka um buil ilm gum pa. 

 (6) cock. 



[ka'um hufi + gum' pa, male 

 mate, etc.] 

 fowl, guinea {Numida meleagris) : 

 wi'jungwi na. 



[ivi'ja, sage-hen -f- givi'na.] 

 Socalled because thought to 

 resemble in some ways the 

 sage-hen. 

 fox, general term : 

 wa'ni. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



87 



fox: 



(a) gray: to'sa wa ni. 



[to'sa, from to'sihit, white or 

 gray + iDa'ni.] 

 (6) kit or burrowing : yi'ba. 



(c) red : wai'am bite, 

 on'ti wa ni. 



[onfti, from on'ti gait, red- 

 dish brown, etc. + wa'ni.] 



(d) silver or black : tu'wa ni. 

 [tu, from tu'ohit, black + 



G. 



gall-bladder: 

 ni'wam bii i. 

 ni wam bu i tsuk. 



[ni'wa, liver -{- m -\- hu'i, 

 blood, fluid, etc. Tsuk, 

 when not added, is to 

 be understood. It means 

 sack or pouch. (Cf . bile.)] 

 gill (of fish) : 

 pa'so na. 



[pa, water -t- su'na. Cf. 

 lung.] 

 giraffe : 

 pai'wa. 



This name was applied by 

 these Indians to certain 

 mythical creatures with 

 long necks which were sup- 

 posed to live in the Warm 

 Spring Lake north of Salt 

 Lake City, in which they 

 were supposed to have 

 holes. When the giraffe 

 was first seen by them at 

 circuses exhibiting at Salt 

 Lake, they immediately 

 identified it with the crea- 



ture they claimed formerly 

 dwelt in the lake before 

 mentioned, 

 gizzard : 



bi'bonts. 

 goat, Rocky Mountain {Oreamnos 

 montanus) : 

 ka'ni ru unts; ka'ni runts. 

 goat-sucker {Chordeiles virgin- 

 ianus) : 

 ho'i duk. 

 glans penis : 

 wu'im pam bi. 



[wu, penis -H m + pam'pi, 

 head.] 

 goldfinch, Arkansas (Astragalinus 

 psaltria) : 

 tu'kai yam pa. 



["Bird that calls at dark," 

 is the effect of this com- 

 pound.] 

 goose, Canada (Branta cana- 

 densis) : 

 nu'giin ta. 

 goshawk, Western (Accipiter atri- 

 capillus) : 

 sS,'na kwi na. 



[sa'na + gwi'na, general term 

 for certain large-sized bird, 

 eagle, etc.] 

 gopher, pocket (Geomys) : 



i'a bite, 

 grasshopper, long-horned {Orche- 

 limum, etc.) : 

 a'ma tsu bite (Goship). 

 a'wa tu bi (Goshute, D. C). 

 grebe. Western (/Eomophorus occi- 

 dentalis) : 

 ti'i dits a pam bun. 

 ti'i dits a pam bun Mi ka bu i. 




88 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April 



[ti'i dits, small + 'pamfhuii, 

 swimmer, etc. + with or 

 without &n ka hui, red eye, 

 in reference to this well- 

 known feature of the bird.] 

 grebe, American eared, or Hell- 

 diver {Auritus californicus) 

 noi'ya wu ta. 

 [noi'ya, egg + wa'to, two, 

 changed to wu'ta for eu- 

 phony.] 

 grosbeck, black-headed rosy 

 {Zamelodia melanocephala) : 

 mo'bi OS. 



[Name refers to the con- 

 spicuous beak or nose 

 (mo'bi).] 

 grouse, pine {Canice obscura) : 

 wan'go ha ; an'go go ha. 



\wan'go, timber + ga'ha, 

 general term for this type 

 of bird.] 

 grouse, Canada {Canace cana- 

 densis) : 

 ko'go. 



My informants claim that this 

 grouse was formerly fairly 

 common in Weber Valley. 

 The identification was from 

 figure, no specimen being 

 available. 



ground-squirrel (Spermophilus, 

 various species) : 

 kim'ba. 

 gull, California {Larus califor- 

 nicus) : 

 pa'u a. 



[pa, water + w'a, possibly, 

 from composition, to move 

 or glide above.] 



H. 



hair ( general term) : 

 (6) of head: wai. 

 pam'pi wu, 



[pam'pi, head + wu.] 



(c) front locks ("bangs"): 



mo'pai ban ga sa. 



(d) hind locks : bah'ga sa. 

 [Probably ban, top, per- 

 taining to head, etc. + 

 ga'sa, wing or similar 

 object.] 



(e) of pubic region : su'up. 

 hair-snake (Gordius) : 



pan'du rra; ban'du rrai. 

 [pan, aquatic + du'rra.] 

 hand: 



(a) general term; right: moq; 

 mok. 



(b) left: kwi'ba. 

 hand, heel of: 



ma'piii go. 



[ma'biii, pertaining or belong- 

 ing to the hand + go, 

 angle, bend, etc.] 

 hawk, chicken {Accipiter cooperi) : 



pan'dza ya. 

 hawk, duck (Falco peregrinus 

 anatinus) : 

 pa'gi ni. 

 hawk, fish {Pandion halicetus) : 

 pa'nuii ka. 



[pan, aquatic + un + ka.] 

 hawk, marsh (Circus cyaneus hud- 

 sonius) : 

 ki'ni. 

 hawk, rough-legged (Archibutio 

 lagopus sancti-johannis) : 

 nSn'du ga. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



89 



hawk, rough-legged, ferruginous 

 {Archibutco ferrugineous) : 

 n^n'doi. 

 hawk, pigeon {Falco columbarius) : 



ko'na gi di ka. 

 hawk, sharp-shinned (Accipiter 

 velox) : 

 o'a da. 

 hawk, sparrow {Falco sparverius) : 

 gfdi di ki. 



[Imitative, the call being 

 represented as gi'di, gi'di, 

 gi'cli, etc.] 

 hawk, red-shouldered {Buteo linea- 

 tus) : 

 ash'i rnn a da. 

 ash'i u a da. 



[a^shi hit, gray, grizzly, etc. 4- 

 o'a da.] 

 hawk, Swainson's (Buteo swain- 

 soni) : 

 naii'gai. 

 head : 



pam'bi; pam'pi. 



[ba, pa, top, etc. + ?n, adjec- 

 tive ending + bi, life, part 

 of living body, etc.] 

 heart : 



bi'a;bi;bi'hi. 



[bi, life, living thing or part, 

 etc.] 

 heart, auricular and ventricular 

 cavities of : 

 bi'am bai hyu. 

 heart, valves of (tricuspid and 

 mitral) : 

 bi'am nam ba. 

 heel of foot : 

 da'pin go. 



[da'pin, pertaining to the foot 

 + go, angle, etc.] 



heron, black-crowned night 

 (Nycticorax nycticorax nce- 

 valis) : 

 to'sa ko kwa jo. 



[to'sa, from to^si bit, white + 

 ko'kwa jo, crest, etc.] 



heron, great blue (Ardea herodias) : 

 ko'kwa jo. 



[The name means a crest, the 

 reference being to the long 

 crest at the back of the 

 head of this bird.] 

 hip: 



dzi'ump. 

 hip-bone (os innominatum) : 

 dzi'un up. 



[dzi'un, from dzi'ump, hip + 

 up.] 

 honey : 



pai'yam pi na. 



[pai yam, pertaining to bee or 

 wasp + pi'na, sweet.] 



hoof: 

 ta'si do. 



[ta, referring to the foot + 

 si'do, leaf- or plate-like ob- 

 ject. Cf. finger-nail or 

 claw.] 

 horn : 

 a ; ha. 



horn or antlers, new, in velvet : 

 i'gi a san gun. 



horn-tail : 

 o'pi tu its. 

 o'bin bi duts. 



[o'bm, pertaining to wood + 

 tu'its, apparently borer, 

 hole-maker (cf. mud- 

 dauber).] 




90 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April. 



horned toad (Phrynosoma doug- 

 lasii, etc.) : 

 ma'ki jiin uk. 

 horse : 



puii'go. 

 humerus : 

 dzo'iip. 

 humming-bird (general term) : 

 mu'tu nats (Goship). 

 pa'ga mu tu nats ; ti'bi tci pa ga 

 mu tu nats (Goshute). 

 [mu tunats, straight nose or 

 beak •,'pa'ga, probably arrow, 

 in reference to swift flight. 

 Tihitci is prefixed to dis- 

 tinguish from dragon-fly, 

 q. vid.] 

 hypochondriac region : 

 i'pump. 



I. 



instep : 

 dauVo. 



[da, pertaining or belonging 

 to the foot (the a sound 

 changing to au before w as 

 always) + wo, bow, arch.] 

 interdigital space or croutch : 



man'na si ga. 

 intestines : 



go'ha. 

 iris of eye: 

 gm'wai bi. 



jay. Rocky IMountain (Perisoreus 

 canadensis var. capitalis) : 

 yu'rro gots. 



[yuq, fat + rro'gots.] 

 The name refers to the fond- 

 ness of birds for fat, which 



they boldly approach 

 camps to obtain, 

 jay, long-crested {Cyanocetta 

 macrolopha) : 

 han'go tsai bite. 



[han'go refers to crown or 

 crest + tsai hitc] 

 jay, woodhouse {Aphelocoma 

 floridana woodhousi) : 

 tsai'bitc. 



K. 



katydid (general term) : 



u'bi a gun. 

 kidney : 



da'ki po. 

 killdeer {Mgialites vociferus) : 

 tin'di (Goship). 

 pan'di (Goshute). 

 [pan, aquatic] 

 kingfisher (Ceryle alcyon) : 

 pM'gwi tsa rra pintc. 



[pah'gwitc, fish -t- tsa'rra + 

 pmtc.'l 

 kite, swallow-tailed {Elanoides 

 forficatus) : 

 tim'bai wa ga. 



[wa'ga, from wa' gasaga, 

 forked, is applied to several 

 birds with forked tails (cf. 

 tern), 

 knee: 



dan' tip. 

 knuckle : 

 ma'pon dza. 



[yna, belonging to the hand 

 etc. + pon'dza, eminence 

 protuberance, etc.] 



labia majora: 

 gwa'bi nu. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



91 



larynx : 



wai'a tin. 

 leech (general term) : 



pa'na wi tctit. 

 leg: 



mo'a ; mo. 

 ligament, transverse of foot (L. 

 titans, cruris and cruciatum 

 cruris) : 

 dau'win tea. 



[da, pertaining to foot + 

 wWtca.] 

 ligamentum nuchse; also muscles 

 of back of neck in man, etc, 

 mu'ta. 

 linnet, pine {Chrysometris pinus) : 

 i'ju pa oi ten aip. 



[i'jiipa, coyote + oi ten, bird 

 + aip, that which is made.] 

 This name is given because 

 this is supposed to be one 

 of the birds made by the 

 coyote, 

 liver : 



ni'wa. 

 lizard {Sceloporus, etc.): 



po'ka ji. 

 lizard {Crotaphytus ivesleyeniis, 

 and several other large 

 forms resembling it) : 

 sa'bi 3'ats. 

 lizard, Gila monster (H eloderma) : 



tin'hu a. 

 lizard (large form mentioned by 

 Indians, but not yet identi- 

 fied by me) : 

 mu'kwi ta. 

 locust, short-horned (general 

 term) : 

 a'tuh:a'tin. 



locust, black-winged {Dissosteira 

 Carolina) : 

 ti'ba tsa rra kum bite. 



[ti^ha, pine-nuts -t- tsa'rra + 



kum + hitc.'] 

 The Goshutes say that this 

 locust shrills particularly 

 at the season when pine- 

 nuts are ripe, when it con- 

 tinually calls ii'ha, ti'ha, 

 ti'ha. Hence the name, 

 locust (several one-striped species 

 of Schistocerca) : 

 ba'ni sha. 

 locust, spotted form (species of 

 Hippiscus) : 

 so'ni a tun. 

 locust, dusky: 

 tu'a tun. 



[tu, from tu'o bit, black + 

 a' tun.] 

 loon {Colymbus torquatus) : 

 pam buii'. 



[Vid. water-strider.] 

 louse, head or body (general 

 term) : 

 po'si a. 

 lung : 



suh'wa ; suii'gwa ; sun. 



M. 



magpie (Pica rustica hudsonica) : 



kwi'to wo ya. 

 malar bone : 



so'ba di ja rrun. 

 mamma : 



bi'ji. 

 malleolus (internal and external) : 



da'pon dza. 



[da, pertaining to the foot + 

 pon'dza, protuberance, etc.] 




92 



PROCEEDINGS OP' THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



mandible : 



a'rriipa; a'rmp. 

 mantis, pi-a\dng : 

 u'na dzi ta. 



[u, probably wood + na'dzi- 

 ta, cane, etc.] 

 marrow : 

 du'hu. 

 marten (Mustela americana) : 

 an'go sail wa; aii'go sail. 



[an'go, timber + sau'wa. Cf . 

 mink.] 

 mastoid process or region : 



nM'go sa. 

 meadow lark (Sturnella negleda) : 



Via,. 

 merganser {Mergus merganser) : 

 p2,n'gwi di ka. 



[pdh'gwi, from jpan gicitc, fish 

 + cU'ka, eater, etc.] 

 pS.n'gwi di ka ko kwa jo. 



['pan'gwidika, as above + 

 ko'kwa jo, crest, head ap- 

 pendage, etc.] 

 mesentery : 



sa'si ga (Goship). 

 o'sa ni pwiip (Goshiite). 

 milk: 



bi'ji. 

 millipede (juloid forms) : 

 tim'pin wu a bi. 



[tim'pm, pertaining to rocks, 

 etc. + wu'a hi, worm; thus, 

 rock-worm.] 

 mink {Putorius vison) : 



pa'saii wa. 

 minnow : 



sai'pSii gwitc. 



[sai, probably from sciip, bul- 

 rush + pdn'gwitc, fish.] 



mosquito (var. kinds) : 



mo'po. 

 mole: 



ta'kiim go urn bite (Goship). 

 [ta'ka, snow + m -\- go'um. 

 possibly cutting or burrow- 

 ing about + bite; hence, 

 snow-burrowing animal.] 

 ta'ka mu di wants (Goshute). 

 ta'ka mo di bo iin (Goshute). 

 [ta'ka in each, snow, as in the 

 Goship.] 

 moose (Alces americana) : 

 kwi'pa rri a (Goship). 



[kwi, probably from root of 

 kwi'ump, lazy, slow + 

 pa'rri a, elk, etc.] 

 The name is given in refer- 

 ence to the animal's lack of 

 great speed, 

 tu'pa rri a (Goshute). 



[tu' , black + pa'rri a, elk.] 

 moth, general term (as Samia, 

 etc.): 

 i'pai bi. 

 moth, pupa of: 

 i'pai bi tin kar ni. 



[i'paibi, moth + un + kar'ni, 

 house, nest.] 

 mons pubis : 

 ga'rri. 



mountain sheep {Ovis montana) : 

 (a) female: muts'em bi a. 

 (6) male: dii'ku. 



mourning dove {Zenaidura caro- 

 linensis) : 



ai'wi. 

 moth, sphinx (Deilephila) : 



a'ka mo go ru itc. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



93 



mouse and rat kind in general 

 (Muridce, etc.) : 

 to'imp. 

 mouse (Mus) : 



po'nai. 

 mouse, field : 

 kim'ba bo nai. 



[kim'ha, spermophile + 

 po'nai, mouse.] 

 mouse, kangaroo : 



bai'a. 

 moustache : 



mo'tso;muts. 

 mouth : 



tim'pi ; timp. 

 tim'bi tci. 

 mucus, from nose : 

 mo'bi ship. 



[mo'hi, nose + (hi'ship?).] 

 mud-hen (Rallus) : 



sai'a;sai. 

 muscle, general term : 



rrok. 

 muscle, adductor hallucis, etc. : 

 da'ti ba na rrok. 



[da'tihana, sole of foot + rrok, 

 muscle.] 

 muscle, biceps : 



mau'wintc (Goship). 

 bah'gwi (Goshute). 

 muscle, deltoid : 

 dzo'a rrok 



{dzo'u'p, shoulder, + rrok, 

 muscle.] 

 muscles of forearm : 

 ma'tsi dau (Goship). 

 mau'wintc (Goshute). 

 muscle, gastrocnemius, etc. : 

 wi'tca rrok. 



{mite, calf of leg + rrok, 

 muscle.] 



muscle, frontalis : 

 gai'bo rro lin. 



{gai'ha, eyebrow + rro'Un.] 

 muscle, masseter : 

 a'rrum yim a gm. 



[a'rrum, from a'rrupa, lower 

 jaw + yim, apparently rais- 

 ing + gm.] 

 muscle, orbicularis oris: 



?di'ga tso kai. 

 muscle, pectoral : 

 ni'na rrok (Goship). 

 ym'ga rrok (Goshute). 



[ni'nup (Goship) or ym'up 

 (Goshute), sternum + rrok, 

 muscle.] 

 muscle, rectus abdominis, etc. : 

 wo'a rra (Goship). 



N. 



nares : 



mo'bin dain. 



[mo'bm, pertaining to the 

 nose + dain, hole.] 

 nasal bone : 



mo'bin dzo nip (Goship). 



[mo'bm, nasal + dzo'nip, 

 bone.] 

 mu'tcuk (Goshute). 



[mu, from mo'hi, nose + 

 tcuk.] 

 navel : 



si'go. 

 neck: 



do'i timp. 

 neck, lower lateral region of : 



an'di wi a. 

 nerve : 



du'hu. 

 nest , bird : ^ ; 



no'tso ni. . .. .._ .< ',^ 




94 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



[no, from noi'ya, egg + 

 tso'ni, enclosure, something 

 surrounding, etc.] 

 night-hawk (Chordediles popetue 

 henryi) : 

 wai'bun ta. 

 nose: 



mo'bi. 

 nose, ala of : 

 mo'bi pa ni gin. 



[mo'bi, nose + pa'ni gin.] 

 nutcracker, Clarke's {Picicorvus 

 columbianus) : 

 to'a gilts, 

 nuthatch (Sitta) : 

 jo'gi. 



O. 



occiput : 



ga'iim bit. 

 orbit of eye : 

 bu'i ko i kin. 



[buH, eye + ko'i km.] 

 oriole, Baltimore {Icterus galbuki) : 

 mo'bi OS. 



[mo'bi, nose, in reference to 



conspicuous beak.] 

 The same name is applied to 

 the grosbeck. 

 otter {Lutra canadensis) : 

 pan'tsuk. 



[pan, aquatic + tsuk.] 

 ovary : 



bai'hyu. 

 oviduct : 



bai'na di wok. 



[bai, from bai hyu, ovary + na 

 di wok, tube, cord.] 

 oyster : 



at (Goship). 



Origin uncertain. 



wa'go (Goshute). 



[Same as clam, wa'go ii n du ru a 

 in full, or iva'go for short.] 



palate, soft ; uvula : 

 ai'gwan du a. 



[ai gwan, adj. form, meaning 

 protruding (cf. tongue) + 

 du'a.] 

 palate, hard : 

 a'ta ko (Goship). 

 mi'ta ko (Goshute). 

 palm of hand : 

 ma'ti ba na. 



[ma, pertaining to the hand, 

 ti'ba 7ia.] 

 pancreas : 



ni'wan da ka wintc. 



[ni'wan, hepatic + da'ka 

 wintc, term used approxi- 

 mately as our word "sweet- 

 bread."] 

 parrot, poll : 



tai'bo de gwa gwi na. 



[tai'bo, white man -|- de'giva, 

 talk + givi'na, bird, eagle; 

 "white man's talking' 

 eagle."] 

 patella : 



daiVgiit a mu. 

 [dail'up, knee.] 

 pelican (Pelecanus trachyrhyn- 

 chus) : 

 tu'ku. 

 penis : 

 wu. 

 pericardium : 

 bi'am bo a. 



[bi'am, cardiac + bo' a. skin, 

 envelope.] 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



95 



peritoneum : 



sa'pa go na (Goship). 

 [sap, belly + go'na.] 

 phalanx of finger, first : 

 ma'tso ni. 



[ma, hand + tso'ni, bone, 

 probably bone adjacent to 

 hand.] 

 phalanx of finger, those beyond 

 first (together) : 

 na'ta wi a. 

 phalangid, harvestman (general 

 term) : 

 an'ga so glints (Goship). 

 pa'rri a (Goshute). 

 [pa'rri a, elk.] 



The reference in the second 

 name is to the long legs, 

 "elk legs." 

 phalarope, Wilson's (Steganopus 

 wilsoni) : 

 pa'na da komp. 

 pan'tsi kwiit (female). 

 placenta : 

 du'i noib. 



[dii'i, from du^i tci, young one 

 + noib.\ 

 planarian (general term) : 

 pan'di sip a. 



[General term for various 

 aquatic invertebrates. Cf. 

 Hydrophilus.] 

 plover : 



u'lin gwi wi ta. 



[Imitative.] See snipe, 

 plover, ring-necked {Mgialitis im- 

 palmatis) : 

 tu'pan dzo no. 

 porcupine {Erethizo7i epixanthus) : 

 yu'na;yiin. 



potato worm : 



ta'gu. 

 pubic region : 



bu'i sip. 

 puma {Felis concolor) : 



to'ga rro ka. 



toi'rrok. 



kwi'ni a rro ko bite. 



to'kwii tsi. 

 pupa of Phlegethonotus , etc. 



bi'ji ma ku ints. 



[M'ji, milk + ku'i mts.' 

 pupil of eye : 



du'u. 



quill of feather : 

 ga'sa o rra. 



[ga'sa, wing, large feather + 

 o'rra, stalk.] 

 quill, porcupine : 

 yun'a ai gwo bi. 



[yiin, porcupine + ai'gwo hi, 

 to prick, that which pricks, 

 etc.] 



R. 



rabbit, jack {Lepus callotis) : 

 kum. 



This hare was formerly a 

 chief dependence of the 

 Goshutes for their animal 

 food and for clothing. The 

 skins were, and to some 

 extent still are, cut into 

 strips, which were so rolled 

 into ropes that only fur was 

 exposed. These were then 

 bound into blankets (kum- 

 wi ga), or made into clothes 

 which are warm and very 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



serviceable. It was the 

 custom to hold a grand 

 hunt every year in Novem- 

 ber when great numbers of 

 hares were killed. In these 

 hunts the Goshutes were 

 often joined by Pahutes 

 and Pahvants. Cedar Val- 

 ley was a favorite resort for 

 these hunts, 

 rabbit, cotton-tail (Lepus sylva- 

 ticus) : 

 ta'bo; ta'bo kurn. 

 iVa ta bo. 

 raccoon (Procyon lotor) : 

 na'tsa ko rra (Goship). 



[Name borrowed from the 

 Bannock.] 

 rat, Rocky iMountain (Neatoma 

 cinerea) : 

 ka. 

 rattle, of rattlesnake : 

 to'go se ya gi niimp. 



[to'go, a rattlesnake + se ya- 

 gi nump, instrument for 

 making noise, etc.] 

 rib: 



a'ma tump (Goship). 

 pi'a ma ttimp (Goship). 

 dzu'ni ma hau wa tump. 



[dzu'ntp, bone + ma + hau 

 wa tump.] 

 robin {Turdus migratorius) : 

 su'i ku ko. 

 [Imitative.] 

 S. 

 sacrum. 



biVo sa (Goship). 

 sage-hen (Centrocercus urophasia- 



nus) 



wija. 



salamander (Amhlystoma tigrinum, 

 etc.) : 

 pa'bo go na (Goship). 

 pa'bo go tci (Goshute). 



{pa, water + 60 + either 

 go'na or go'tci.] 

 salmon : 



tsa'pan'gwitc. 



[tea, to pull? + pan' gwitc,f[s\i.'\ 

 a'gai. 

 [In this sense borrowed from 

 Bannock. See whale for 

 usual significance in Go- 

 shute.] 

 sand-piper {Tringoides macula- 

 rius) : 

 pa'na da kump ; pa'na da kum. 

 [pa, water -|- na'da, to run, 

 etc. + ko, probably with 

 force of around or al^out + 

 ump.] 

 sand-piper ( Tringa) : 



pa'na ni wa. 

 scale, fish : 



pS,iVwitc tin da si a. 



[pdn'gwitc, fish + da'si a, 

 scale.] 

 scab, sheep, (Psoroptes) : 

 ship'un da si a. 



[ship, sheep + da'si a, scale, 

 flake, etc.] 

 scalp : 



pam'pi bu. 



[pam'pi, head -I- hu, skin.] 

 scapula : 



si'kwo tump, 

 scar or cicatrix: 



? go'un. 

 scorpion (general term) : 

 nl'na gwi puts. 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



97 



seal: 



pi'a pan tsuk. 



[pi'up, big + pan'tsuk, otter.] 

 Known to the Indians from 

 narrative and seen by some, 

 septum naris : 

 mo'bi sok. 



[mo'hi, nose + sok, probably 

 a shortened form.] 

 mo'bi sail ko. 



[mo'hi, nose + san'ko, exten- 

 sion, partition.] 

 sheep : 

 ship. 



[From the English sheep.] 

 shell, in general : 

 bo'a. 



{po, enclose, cover.] 

 shell, of egg : 

 dzu'ni bo a. 



[dzu ni, from dzu'rvip, bone + 

 ho'a, shell, integimient, etc.] 

 shiner : 

 pu'i wa. 



[pu'i, ?diick + iva.] 

 shore-lark (Eremophila alpestris) : 



tsi'do bi. 

 shoulder : 



gi'tci tea gin. 

 shrew (Sorex): 

 so'gwai wa. 



[so' klip, ground + ai'iva, 

 fawn, etc.} 

 shrimp, various kinds (as Gam- 

 mar us) : 

 ma'su pM'gwitc. 



[ma'su, cricket + pdn/gioitc, 

 fish.] 

 skin : 



bu'a;bu. 

 7 



skull: 



pam'pi dzu nip. 



[pam'pi, head + dzu'nip, 

 bone.] 

 skunk, great basin {Chincha occi- 

 dentalis major) : 

 po'ni uts. 



[po'ni, stripe + uts.] 

 pi'a ka bo ni iits. 

 [pi'up, big + ka'ho ni uts ; vid. 

 infra.] 

 skunk, small spotted : 

 ka'bo ni tits. 



\ka' + po'ni uts, skunk; tid. 

 supra.] 

 snail, various kinds : 

 tats'in kwi tup. 

 [ta'tsi ump, stars + kwit'iip, 



excrement.] 

 Meteorites in this connection 

 are fancied as excreta fall- 

 ing from the stars, and ap- 

 pearing upon the earth as 

 snail-shells. It may be 

 noted that throughout the 

 Goshute and Goship ter- 

 ritory snail-shells are 

 abundant in deposits from 

 old Lake Bonneville and 

 over the hills, etc., as'well 

 as in ponds and streams, 

 snake, blow {Bascanion con- 

 strictor) : 

 ko'ka. 

 snake, blue-racer: 



tin'ti wa rra. 

 snake (Ophibolus pijrrhamelas) : 



ko'go; ko' go a. 

 snake, rattle- {Crotalus, var. 

 species) : 

 to'go a. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



snake, water- {EuUenia sirtalis) : 

 pa'o in go a. 



[pa^o m, apparently pertaining 

 to water, floating, swimming 

 + go' a, snake, etc.] 

 snake, water- {EuUenia elegans and 

 macrotceniatum) : 

 pa'siii ko go. 



[pa'siii, penetrating or pass- 

 ing through water + ko'go.] 

 snake, general term (especially in 

 compounds) : 

 go'a;go. 



[The root go has here its force 

 of winding or bending, 

 moving in curving path, 

 etc.] 

 snipe, American {Gallinago deli- 

 cata) : 

 wu'in gwi wi ta. 



[Imitative.] 

 i'jiipaba woniip. 



[i'jupa, coyote + ha'wo na, 

 seemingly to cry, call out, 

 etc. 4- up.] 

 The reference in the name is 

 to the calling out at dusk or 

 in night, like the coyote, 

 snow-bird, INIexican {J unco cin- 

 ereus) : 

 kai'ma. 

 ti'sa kai'ma. 



[ti'sa, small + kai'ma. See 



■] 

 snow-bird Oregon {J unco hiemalis 

 oregomis) : 

 ta'ka mu tu nants. 



[ta'ka, snow + mu'tu nants, a 

 general term. See under 

 himiming-bird .] 

 The black patch over the 



head of this bird, square 

 cut behind and suggesting 

 a head of black hair, is 

 accounted for by these 

 Indians in a myth which 

 represents the bird as hav- 

 ing descended on one side 

 from an Indian woman, 

 whose descendants were 

 changed into this form by 

 the coyote deity, 

 sole of foot : 

 da'ti ba na. 



{da, pertaining to the foot + 

 ti'ha na. Cf . palm.] 

 sparrow. Western song (Melospiza 



melodia, var. jallax) : 

 sparrow, yellow-winged (Coturni- 

 cidus passerinus, var, per- 

 pallidus) : 

 an'da witc. 

 sparrow, white-browed crown 

 (Zonotrichia leucophrys) : 

 yu'rra ba. 

 solpugid : 

 to'sa mush. 



[to'sa, white -\- mush, prob- 

 ably from ma'su i.] 

 sow-bug (Oniscus, etc.) : 



mi'ta rnuts. 

 spermophile (var. species of Sper- 

 mophilus) : 

 kim'ba. 

 spermophile, thirteen-lined : 

 ai'wa dzip. 



[ai'wa, fawn + dzip.] 

 spider (general term) : 



a'ni su tints, 

 spider, grass (Agalena) : 

 ? a'sah gots. 




1918. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



99 



spider-wel) : 



a'ni su iints a wa na. 



[a't^i su loits, spider + wa'na, 

 trap, etc.] 

 spleen : 



so'no (Goship). 

 wai'gwi (Goshiite). 

 spur, of cock, etc. : 

 daii'wi y\\. 



[da, pertaining to the foot + 

 wi'yu, needle, etc.] 

 squirrel, fljdng {Volucella) : 



pa'ko m. 

 squirrel, ground : 



See spermophile. 

 scjuirrel, gray (Sciurus) : 



tsi'kwits. 

 squirrel, brown pine : 



afi'go wa tsi rri gi (Goship). 

 [cuYgo, timber + wa'tsi rri gi, 

 referring to springing, leap- 

 ing, etc.; "pine or timber 

 leaper" is the effect of the 

 compound.] 

 sternum : 



aiVgo sai wi (Goshute). 

 nin'up (Goship). 

 yin'iip (Goshute). 

 stink-bug, gray form, found on pine 

 (species?) : 

 ti'ba mu gu ru itc. 



[/i'6a, pine-nut + riiu'gurul.ic.'] 

 stomach : 



se'gwa l^i. 

 stone-fly : 



kwa'tsa wu pu ru itc. 

 kwa'tsa i pu ru itc. 

 styloid process of ulna : 

 ma'pon dza. 



{ma, hand + pon'dza. See 

 malleolus.] 



sucker : 



tu'kum pan witc. 



[tu'kikn -f 'pan'witc, fish.] 

 superciliary ridge: 

 bu'i till go. 



\hu'i tin, pertaining to the eye 

 4- go, ridge, angle, etc.]. 

 swallow, or martin, bank and 

 barn : 

 pa'sa gom bi. 

 swallow, wood : 



wo' vim pa sa gom bi. 



{wo'vim, pertaining to wood 

 4- pa'sa gom 6/.] 

 swan (Cygnus) : 

 ni'wa dam pa. 

 swim-sac of fish : 

 pa'su a. 



T. 

 tadpole : 



pau'wi to ga. 

 pa'na wi tcut. 

 tail : 

 gwa'shi. 



[gwa, to extend out from, etc. 

 + shi.] 

 tanager, Cooper's or Western 

 summer red-bird {Pyranga 

 cestiva cooperi) : 

 Sfi'ka hui tcu. 



[a)Yka, from coYka bit, red + 

 hu'itcu, bird.] 

 tanager, crimson-headed {Py- 

 ranga liidoviciana) : 

 wu'tsi ki gi. 



It is said by Goshutes that the 

 young of this bird are 

 easily reared, and that the 

 Indians formerly reared 

 them and kept them caged 

 as pets. 




100 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



tape-worm {Tcenia, etc.) : 



siVa. 

 tarantula (Eurypelma hentzii) : 

 pi'a na su iinta. 



[pi'up, big + a'na su unts, 

 spider.] 

 haii'wi tu go bite. 

 tear (from eye) : 



to'paip. 

 teeth (in general) : 



damp, 

 teeth, of upper jaw: 

 mo'tsin dam pa. 



[mo'isin, apparently pertain- 

 ing to the upper jaw (cf. 

 mo'tso, moustache) + 

 dam/'pa, damp, teeth.] 

 teeth, of lower jaw : 

 a'rron ko dam pa. 



[afrron, from arrup, lower 

 jaw + ko + dam' pa, 

 teeth.] 

 tendo-achilles : 



wi'tca rrump (Goship). 



{witc, calf of leg + rro + 

 ump.l 

 da'pin dam (Goshute). 



[da'pm, pertaining to the 

 foot + dam, tendon.] 

 tendon (general term) : 



da'ma;dam. 

 tendons (extensors digitorum of 

 foot): 

 dauVi a ta. 



\da, pertaining to the foot + 

 wi'a ta.} 

 tendons of muscles of front of 

 forearm (as of JDrachio-radia- 

 lis, flexor carpi radialis, 

 etc.) : 

 man' win dam. 



[ma, the hand + win, prob- 

 ably to raise up + dam, 

 tendon.] 

 tent-caterpillar : 

 pu'hi wa bi. 



[pu'hi -\- loa'hi, worm.] 

 tern, common {Sterna hirundo) : 

 pi'wa ga (Goship). 

 pu'i wa ga (Goshute). 



[ivaga, from wa'gasaga, forked, 

 refers to the forked tail. 

 Pu'i, in second term, duck 

 (probably) ; pi, abbrevi- 

 ated form.] 

 testes : 

 noi'ya, 

 dau'wi. 

 thigh: 



biiiVup, 

 throat : 

 go'its. 

 thumb : 

 ma'to ga. 



[ma, hand + to'ga.] 

 thymus : 



bi'hin da ka bintc, 



[hi' Inn, cardiac + da ka 

 pintc. See spleen.] 

 thyroid : 



a'rrun da kam bintc. 



[a'rrun, tracheal + da'kam- 

 phitc, "sweetbread."] 

 tibia ; shin = : 

 gots'ti na. 

 go'tsi an. 

 o'ts'em bi a. 

 tick, wood : 



mi'tats. 

 toad (Bufo columhianus, etc.) : 

 saiVko wa go. 



[sail'ko, wart + wa'go, frog.] 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



101 



toad-fish : 

 pa'tsofi. 



[pa, water + tsoil.] 

 toe: 



dan'kwo. 

 do'kwo. 

 da'so gi. 



[da, pertaining to the foot + 

 kwo, or so'gi.] 

 toe, great (halkix) : 

 pi'a rro to ga. 



[pfiip, big + rro^to ga.] 

 toe. great, basal joint of : 



do'nai. 

 tonsil, pharyngeal : 

 ai'go yem bit. 



[ai'go, tongue, that which pro- 

 trudes + yem'hit.'] 

 tongue : 

 ai'go. 



[ai, to bring forth, shoot or 

 spring out, etc. + go.] 

 tooth. See teeth, 

 trachea : 



oi'rrufi. 

 trout (Salmo virginalis, etc.) : 

 toi'ya pah gwitc. 



[toi'ya, from toi'yahi, moun- 

 tain + pdnfwttc, fish.] 

 tsa pS,n witc. 



[tsa, to pull + pdnwitc, fish. 

 See salmon.] 

 turkey (Meleagris gallipavo) : 

 ku'i nit (Goship). 

 ku'jd na (Goshute). 

 turkey buzzard {Cathartes aura) : 

 we'gom bite. 



tympanum of ear : 

 naiVka qa. 



U. 



umbilical cord : 

 si'go na di wok. 



[si^go, navel + na'diwok, cord, 

 tube.] 

 ureter : 



da'ki po na di wok, 



[da'kipo, kidney -|- na'di wok.] 

 urethra : 



si'na di wok. 



[si, from sip or si mo guts, 

 urinary bladder + ria^di- 

 wok, cord or tube.] 

 urethra, part of in penis : 

 wu'im na di wok. 



[ivu'im, pertaining to the 

 penis + na'diwok, tube, 

 cord.] 

 urethra, external orifice of in 

 male : 

 wu'im bai shu. 

 urethra, external orifice of in 

 female : 

 wun'gi. 

 urine : 

 sip. 

 uterus : 

 no'ib. 



V. 



vagina ; vulva : 



o'a tai. 

 vagina, external orifice of : 

 dai'dain. 



[Probably dai, from o'atai, 

 vagina + dain, orifice, 

 hofe.] 

 vas deferens : 



noi'ya na di wok. 



[noi'ya, testis + na'di wok, 

 cord,] 




102 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



vertebra : 



tso'ni gwai wnip. 



[tso'nip, bone + gwai'ump, 

 back.] 

 vertebral column : 

 gwai'o rra. 



[gwai, from gwai' ump, back 

 + o'rra, trunk, stalk, etc.] 



W. 



wasp (general term) : 



pai'ya- 

 wasp, thread-waisted ; mud- 

 dauber: 

 so'go bi tuts. 



[so'kup, earth + hi'tuts. Cf. 

 horn-tail.] 

 wasp-nest : 



pai'yam na kar ni. 



[pai'ya, wasp + m + kar'ni, 

 house.] 

 water-ouzel. See dipper, 

 water-strider (Hygrotrechus) : 

 pam bun'. 



[pam, aquatic -|- bun, the root 

 of which means here to 

 float.] 

 wattles, of fowl : 

 a,n'ka gi up. 



[an'ka, from afika hit, red 4- 

 gi'up, pertaining to the 

 mouth or throat.] 

 weasel {Putorius longicauda) : 



pa'bi tci. 

 wart: 



dzi'a. 

 wart on hand : 

 ma'tzi a. 



[ma, hand + tzi'a.] 



wart on face : 

 go'bi tzi a. 



[go'bi, face + tzi' a.] 

 whale : 



a'gai. (Cf. Bannock a'gai, sal- 

 mon.) 

 The Goshutes and Goships 

 more particularly identify 

 the whale with certain 

 great aquatic animals said 

 by them to have lived 

 formerly in Utah Lake. 

 They have stories concern- 

 ing numerous adventures 

 with this creature, and tell 

 of the loss of many Indians 

 caught afloat and swal- 

 lowed by the a'gai. In one 

 tale the victim cuts through 

 wall of stomach and body 

 and escapes with his life, 

 white of eye : 

 to'sa kin wai bi. 



[to'sa, from to'sa bit, white + 

 km ivai bi.] 

 widgeon, American, or bald-pate 

 (Arms americana) : 

 pa'o um bu i. 



[pa'o tm, aquatic, frequenting 

 water + bu'i, duck.] 

 wildcat {Lynx rujus) : 



tu'ku bite, 

 wing : 



ga'sa gunt ; ga'sa. 

 wolverine {Gido borealis) : 



wo'ni. 

 woodchuck {Arctomys monax) : 



ya'ha. 

 woodcock {Philohela minor) : 

 i'ju pa mo na pa. 



[i'jupa, coyote + mo'napa.] 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



103 



The name is given from a 

 myth according to which 

 these birds are descended 

 from the coyote deity's 

 daughter, 

 woodpecker, ivory-billed : 

 o'pi do na. 



[o^pi, wood + do'na, to stab, 

 to peck.] 

 woodpecker, red -shafted, or 

 flicker (Colaptes mexi- 

 canus) : 

 ko'rra wats. 

 ko'rri mats, 

 worm, general term: 



wa'bi; wu'a bi. 

 wolf, gray {Canis lupus) : 

 i'sha, 



(Identified in a way with the 



ancestral deity of the Go- 

 shutes and Goships.) 

 wren, Bewick's (Thryothorus 

 hewicki) : 

 tim'pi tam pi a wa. 

 wren, Western house {Troglodytes 

 domesticus parkmanni) : 

 tu'im pin tci rritc (Goship). 

 tu'im pin tci rru (Goshute). 

 wrist : 



mau'wi to gan. 



[ma, hand + ivi to gan.] 



X. 



xiphoid or xiphisternum : 

 yin'gi po nump. 



[yin'gi, referring to the ster- 

 num + po + nump.] 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF SCALPELLIFOEM BARNACLES. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The genus Scalpellum as at present limited is more numerous in 

 species than any other genus of Cirripedes, comprising about 170. 

 Since nearly all of them live in rather deep water, and only small areas 

 of the sea bottom beyond the 100-fathom hne have been thoroughly 

 explored, we have reason to believe that their number will be vastly 

 augmented by future investigation. 



The species now known are very unequally related. Up to the year 

 1907 not much progress had been made towards a natural classification, 

 although the "key" constructed by Dr. P. P. C. Hoek for the arrange- 

 ment of the Challenger species was a stride in that direction. In 1907 

 two attempts were made to group the species more naturally, and to 

 indicate their phylogenetic relations. Dr. Hoek^ and the present 

 writer^ independently and almost simultaneously proposed to split 

 Scalpellum into a number of subgeneric groups. The two essays were 

 based upon antipodal material, Dr. Hoek's upon East Indian, my own 

 upon American forms. Some divergence in the view taken of the 

 comparative value of characters would be expected ; yet the points of 

 agreement are so numerous that one may entertain the idea of attain- 

 ing an approximately natural arrangement by uniting the best features 

 of the two classifications. 



Hoek's studies have illumined the more primitive groups so richly 

 represented in the East — forms inadequately represented in the col- 

 lections I had studied. On the other hand, the material before me 

 demonstrated, I think, that the form of the carina has Httle value in 

 classification. Groups based upon the structure of this plate I believe 

 to be heterogeneous. I was first led to this conclusion by an exami- 

 nation of the species composing the group of Scalpellum stroemii, as 

 assembled in my report on the barnacles of the National Museum. 

 These forms agree so completely in the total structure that it is quite 

 impossible to doubt their close relationship, yet the carina varies 



1 Siboga-Expeditie, Cirripedia Pedunculata, p. 58. October, 1907. 



2 B^illetin 60, U. S. National Museum, p. 71. November 9, 1907. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



105 



by insensible degrees from simply arched with apical umbo to angular 

 with the umbo remote from the apex. 



In the group of Scalpellum scalpellum and the group of S. cHceratiim 

 there is similar variation in the carina, yet one cannot doubt that these 

 are natural groups. These and other like instances show that, to 

 rank the shape of the carina, whether simply bowed or angular, as a 

 character of the first importance, is to oppose it to the evidence of 

 all the rest of the organism. In ScalpeUum stearnsi I find that the 

 umbo of the carina is very close to the apex in quite young individuals, 

 becoming more remote with age; hence the angular shape of the carina, 



Fig. 1. — Types of the Scalpelliform genera: a, b, Calantica villosa; c, d, Smilium 

 peronii; e, f, EvsealjieUum rostratum; g, h, ScalpeUum scalpellum; i, j, Scalpel- 

 lum (Arcoscalpellum) relutinum. Upper line males (very much enlarged); 

 lower line hermaphrodites or females. The figures are somewhat diagram- 

 matic; carinal side of all towards the right, s.c, subcarina; c.l., carina! latus. 



being a feature acquired late in the ontogeny of the individual, has 

 probably been assumed only recently in the evolution of the groups. 



These considerations teach, I think, that an angular carina has been 

 independently acquired by unrelated species of many phyla. It can- 

 not be considered a criterion of relationship. 



Another character which has not received due weight in taxonomy 

 is the morphology of the complementary males. Former classifica- 

 tions have been based solely upon the hermaphrodite or female form, 

 which has been far less diversely modified than the male. When we 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMi' OF [April, 



drop as misleading the arrangement of species according to the shape 

 of the carina, it appears at once that the structure of the little males 

 is wonderfully correlated with certain features of the hermaphrodites, 

 especially the development of a subcarina. The least specialized males 

 belong to hermaphrodite forms which are known by morphological and 

 palaeontological evidence to be old generalized types. The most 

 modified males are those of the highly evolved hermaphrodite or female 

 forms. A classification fully supported by both sexes surely rests 

 upon a broader base than one ignoring the males. 



Classification of Scalpelliform Barnacles. 



I. Male having six jointed cirri and a mouth, 3 to 6 valves, and a more 



or less distinct peduncle. Female or hermaphrodite alivays 



having a subcarina. Unpaired valves never fewer than 3. 



a. Male with 6 well-developed valves, and distinctly divided into 



capitulum and peduncle. Female or hermaphrodite with 13 



valves (sometimes 14 by addition of a subrostrum, or 15 



when another pair of latera is added). 



b. No plate interposed below the tergum between scutum and 



carina, Genus Calantica Gray. 



b'. An upper lateral plate interposed between scutum and 



carina, Genus Smilium Gray. 



a\ ]\Iale with 3 valves and an oblong capitulum hardly differ- 

 entiated from the peduncle. Female and hermaphrodite 

 with 15 valves, three pairs of lower latera and an upper 



latus, Genus Euscalpellum Hoek. 



II. Male oval or sack-like, without mouth or peduncle, the alimentary 

 system and cirri being vestigeal; plates wanting, or very small 

 scuta and terga may be present. Female or hermaphrodite 

 never having a subcarina. Plates 14, or 13 hy suppression of 

 the rostrum, there being a pair of upper latera ancl three pairs 

 of lower latera. Never more than 2 unpaired plates. 



Genus Scalpellum Leach. 



Genus CALANTICA Gray. 

 Calantica Gray, Annals of Philo-sophy, n. ser., X, 1825, p. 101, for Scal- 

 pellwn villosum Leach. Pilsbry, Bull. 60, U. S. Nat. Mus., 1907, p. S. 



In Calantica there are but three pairs of latera, all basal. All the 

 plates have apical umbones, as in Mitella. There are therefore 13 

 valves, or sometimes 14 by addition of a subrostrum. The comple- 

 mental male has a distinct capitulum with 6 large valves. Type S. 

 villosum Leach (fig. 1, a, b). There are two groups of species. 



Oriental Group — Calantica s. str. 



C. villosa (Leach). East Indies? 



C. trispinosa (Hoek). Sulu Sea, 82-102 fathoms. 



C. eos (Pilsbry). Japan, 71 fathoms. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



North Atlantic Group — Scilkelepas Segueiiza: 



Besides a few living species, this group includes numerous tertiary 

 and mesozoic forms from European horizons, mostly described as 

 Pollicipes. It was evidently a group developed in the mesozoic 

 North Atlantic basin, at that time cut off from the Southern Ocean. 



C. calyculus ( (Aurivillius). Azores, 850-900 meters. 



C. falcata (Aurivillius). Azores, 454 meters. 



C. gemma (Aurivillius). Greenland, 1800 meters. 



C. superba (Pilsbry) . Southeastern United States, 352-440 fathoms. 



C. gnmaldi (Aurivillius). Azores, 845-1,230 meters. 



Genus SMILIUM Gray. 



Smilium Gray, Annals of Philosophy, n. ser., X, 1825, p. 100, for S. peronii, 

 Pilsbry, Bull. 60, U. S. Nat. Mus., p. 13, exclusive of division aa. Proto- 

 scalpellutn Hoek, Siboga-Expeditie, Cirripedia, 1907, p. 58 (for S. poUi- 

 cipedoides, S. aries, S. acutum). 



In this group a median pair of latera lies between the scutum and carina. 

 There are 3 or 4 pairs of latera in all, 13 or 15 plates. Otherwise both 

 sexes are similar to Calantica. In a few species {peronii, uncus) the 

 carina is angular, but in others it has an apical umbo. Most of the 

 known species are Indo-Pacific. Type S. peronii Gray (fig. 1, c, d). 



Dr. Hoek's group Protoscalpellum, of which I take S. pollicipedoides 

 to be the type, differs from Smilium chiefly by having an additional 

 pair of latera in the type species. S. pollicipedoides is interesting from 

 its tendency toward multiplication of basal latera, which Dr. Hoek 

 has discussed with his accustomed insight. 



Smilium and Calantica might without great violence be united as 

 subgenera of a single more comprehensive genus, yet I think the ele- 

 vation of a pair of latera above the basal whorl to the position of 

 "upper latera" is a morphological advance worthy of being signalized 

 by generic distinction. In other characters the two groups are almost 

 identical. The complemental males are alike. 



S. peronii Gray. S. sexcornutum (Pilsbry.) 



;S. uncus (Hoek). S. scorpio (Aurivillius). 



S. pollicipedoides (Hoek). S. acutum (Hoek). 



S. aries (Hoek). S. longirostrum (Gruvel). 



Genus EUSCALPELLUM Hoek. 



EuscalpeUum Hoek, in part, Siboga-Expeditie, Cirripedia, 1907, p. 59, for 

 Scalpellum rostratum, peroni, uncus and stearnsi. 



This genus differs from those preceding chiefly by the more degener- 

 ate males, which are rather sack-like, not distinctly divided into 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



capitulum and peduncle, and have only three valves, the scuta being 

 larger than in Scal'pellum. A subcarina is always present. The 

 inframedian latera have a peculiar square shape, and are quite large. 

 There are 4 pairs of latera in all, therefore 15 valves (a number never 

 reached in Scalpellum, which has no subcarina). The rostrum is very 

 large and prominent. The carina has a submedian umbo in the first 

 two species, apical in the others. Type *S. rostratum Darwin (fig. 1, e, 

 /). Species four or five. 



Dr. Hoek selected no type for his group Euscalpellum, and I have 

 therefore taken his first species as typical. The characters and limits 

 of the group are also much modified, since I place no w^eight upon the 

 shape of the carina, but emphasize the structure of the male, the 

 presence of a subcarina, etc. 



E. rostratum (Darwin). Malay archipelago. 



E. renei (Gruvel). St. Paul de Loanda. 



E. hengalense (Annandale). Bay of Bengal, 98-102 fathoms. 



E. stratum (Aurivillius). Antilles. 



i5J.(?) squamuliferum (Weltner). Indian Ocean, 3200 meters. 



Genus SCALPELLUM Leach. 

 Scalpellum Lead:, Journal de Physique, etc., LXXXV, 1817, p. 68. 

 The males are very degenerate, sack-like, without a peduncle or 

 mouth, the cirri vestigeal, valves absent or extremely small. The 

 female or hermaphrodite has no subcarina (thereby differing from all 

 the preceding genera); upper latera are alwa3^s present, and three 

 pairs of lower latera; rostrum is comparatively small or absent. The 

 position of the umbo of the carina varies from submedian to apical. 

 Plates 14, or when the rostrum is absent 13.^ Type S. scalpellum L. 



(fig.l,^,/^)- 



Scalpellum is morphologically the highest or most modified member 

 of its family, both by the profoundly degenerate males and the advanced 

 type of armor of the hermaphrodites or females. Primarily the genus 

 divides into two subgeneric groups, as follows : 



a. Inframedian latus large, pentagonal (or with the angles rounded), 

 wide throughout, the umbo varying from submedian to basal, 

 or on the rostral border, never apical. Subgenus Scalpellum s. str. 



a'. Inframedian latus generally smaller than the other latera, triangular, 

 hour-glass-shaped or irregular. Subgenus Arcoscalpellum Hoek. 



^ The mere number of plates in the capitulum is not especially significant, since 

 the same number may be present in different genera, but made up of morpho- 

 logically different plates, as in the case of 13-valved species of Scalpellum and 

 Calantica. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



The restricted subgenus Scalpellum is undoubtedly a natural group, 

 well characterized by the development of a large inframedian pair of 

 latera. The umbones of the carina and scutum are frequently removed 

 from the apices of those plates, but this is a variable character. 

 Two species, S. inerme Annandale and S. patagonicum Gruvel, have the 

 plates imperfectly calcified. The following species belong here: 



Group of S. scalpellum : 



S. stearnsi Pilsbry. S. patagonicum Gruvel. 



S. inerme Aimandale. S. gibbum Pilsbry. 



S. calcaratum Aurivillius. S. gibberum Aurivillius. 



S. hamatum Sars. S. ornatum (Gray). 



S. scalpellum (linne). S. salartice Gruvel. 



Group of S. calif or nicum: 

 S. californicum Pilsbry. S. osseum Pilsbry. 



Group of S. strocmii : 



S. stroemii Sars. S. s. latirostrum Pilsbry. 



S. s. obesum Aurivillius. S. pressum Pilsbr}'. 



S. s. luridum Auri villus. S. groenlandicum Aurivillius. 



S. s. aduncufn Aurivillius. *S. angustum Sars. 



S. s. septentrionale Aurivillius. S. nijmphocola Hoek. 



S. s. subsiroejnii Pilsbry. *S'. cornutum Sars. 



Subgenus Arcoscalpellum Hoek. 



All of the other species described as Scalpellum form a group sys- 

 tematically equivalent to the restricted subgenus Scalpellum, but the 

 great number of species, including several phyla with degenerate, partly 

 chitinous plates, may make it expedient to recognize several sections 

 by name. 



Arcoscalpellum Hoek,* type S. velutinum Hoek (fig. 1, i, j), includes 

 all of the species of Sections IV and V of my paper on National Museum 

 Barnacles, pp. 25 to 68, and all of those included in Arcoscalpellum in 

 Hoek's Siboga report, pp. 85 to 120, besides various other allied forms, 

 previously known, which need not be enumerated here. 



There is a distinct tendency in certain forms of Arcoscalpellum 

 towards the evolution of a phylum which will have only eleven plates, 

 by elimination of the inframedian latera. In iDarnacles of the group of 



* Arcoscalpellum is exactly equivalent to Holoscalpelhon Pils.. Bull. 60, U. S. N. 

 Mus., p. 25, published a few days later than Hoek's work. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Scalpellum aurivillii these latera are very much reduced, and in some 

 cases are displaced, lying free over the adjacent rostral latus, which 

 actually comes in contact with the carinal latus. ^ The considerable 

 number of species showing this reducting of the inframedian latera 

 gives ground for the belief that an 1 1-valved type of Scalpellum will 

 eventually be evolved, if indeed it does not already exist. 



The following groups with partially calcified valves have been 

 derived from the Arcoscalpellum stock. 



The section Mesoscalpellum Hoek, type S. javanicum Hoek, consists 

 of partially calcified barnacles which are shown by their ontogeny, 

 now known pretty fully in a few forms, to be descended from fully 

 calcified forms of Arcoscalpellum, like S. idioplax or S. carinatum. 

 The evidence at hand indicates the existence of several collateral lines, 

 probably derived from as many normal species, so that the group is a 

 polyphyletic one. The early post-larval stages in at least two species, 

 which I have worked out and figured («S. larvale and S. japonicum), 

 are indistinguishable from Arcoscalpellum. 



Mesoscalpellum will include, for the present, besides the forms 

 described in Hoek's Siboga report, the group of S. intermedium (S. 

 intermedium, S. nipponense, S. laccadivicum) , the group of S. japonicum, 

 the group of S. larvale, and that of S. gruveli {S. gruveli, S. imperfectum, 

 S. sanctcebarhane) . 



The section Neoscalpellum Pilsbry, type S. dicheloplax, contains the 

 most modified of the imperfectly calcified forms, — bizarre, skeleton- 

 like creatures with all the paired plates reduced to narrow, diverging 

 rami. 



The early stages are not known, but half-grown individuals show an 

 approximation to the condition of adults of the S. japonicum group, 

 so that a common origin is probable, and it may be found superfluous to 

 retain Neoscalpellum as a separate section. The species are widely 

 scattered geographically, and all inhabit abysmal depths. 



S. edwardsi Gruvel. Azores, 4,255 meters. 



S. dicheloplax Pilsbry. Off Eastern United States, 1525-1544 fathoms. 



S. phantasma Pilsbry. Off California, 2196 fathoms. 



;S. marginatum Hoek. Off New Guinea, 5640 fathoms. 



The nearly simultaneous publication of some 32 new species of 

 Sccdpellum by Dr. Hoek and 38 by myself, in 1907, has resulted in 



See Bull. 60, U. S. Nat. Mus., p. 65, fig. 26. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



several homonyms. Tavo species require new names. Both belong 

 to the subgenus Arcoscalpellum. 

 Scalpellum cMliense n. n. 



ScalpcUum gracile Pilsbry, Bull. 60, U. S. Xat. Mus., p. 60, fig. 23 (November 



9, 1907). Not S. gracile Hoek, Siboga-Expeditie, Cirripedia Pedunculata, 



p. 105, PI. 8, fig. 8 (October, 1907). 



Scalpellum bellum n. n. 



Scalpellum jormosum Pilsbry, Bull. 60, U. S. Nat. Mus., p. 58, fig. 22 (Novem- 

 ber 9, 1907). Not S. jormosum Hoek, Siboga-Expeditie, Cirripedia 

 Pedunculata, p. 110, PL 8, figs. 11, llo (October, 1907). 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



GENERIC TYPES OF NEARCTIC REPTILIA AND AMPHIBIA. 



BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN. 



By the adoption of the new Article 30 of the International Zoological 

 Code at the Boston meeting of the seventh Congress in August, 1907, 

 the methods of nomenclature are brought measurably nearer to 

 uniformity; perhaps as near as is possible under any set of rules, for 

 it must always be true of inelastic rules — and fortunate that it is so — 

 that they cannot excuse the individual from the exercise of independ- 

 ent judgment in cases such as those where diverging opinions may 

 fairly be held as to their application. Absolute agreement is not 

 likely to be reached until, in respect of the past, names themselves 

 are formally adopted by general accord, instead of rules. 



So completely representative a body as the International Zoological 

 Congress having unanimously adopted the new Article, the way is 

 made easy for the minority of zoologists who are dissenters as to some 

 of its provisions, for they may now be willing to yield their practice 

 to so great a preponderance of opinion in matters which are those onl}' 

 of convention. 



For this reason the Code is here followed in all essential details, even 

 to the acceptance of undefined genera, such as those of Fitzinger in 

 the System Reptilium, in place of others which in the author's own 

 opinion have a better claim to be preferred. But it is not now profit- 

 able to discuss the question. 



For most of the genera here included types have been ascertained 

 from time to time as necessity required, but the whole list has now 

 been re\dsed in accordance with the present rule. 



No full synonymy of the genera has been attempted, the names 

 cited as equivalents being only those that have been in recent use for 

 the whole or a part of the contents of the one adopted. 



REPTILIA. 



The name was first used by Laurenti (1768) for his three divisions, 

 (I) Salientia, (II) Gradientia, (III) Serpentes, and included all reptiles 

 and amphibians. The correct limits of the class were first laid down 

 by Gray (Annals of Philosophy, (2), 10, p. 194, 1825). 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



CROCODILINI. 



First separated as a distinct order, under this name, by Oppel 

 {Ord. and Fam. Rept., p. 19, 1811). By Linnaeus they were placed in 

 his genus Lacerta. By Laurenti in Gradientia with lizards and tailed 

 amphibians. By most other early authors under "sauriens" or 

 saurii, usually with lizards. "Emydosauriens" was used by Latreille 

 (1801) and Blainville (1816). This w^as Latinized into Emydosauria 

 by Gray (1825). Loricata Merrem (1820) was used twenty-eight years 

 earlier for a subdivision of edentate mammals by Vicq. d'Azyr {Syst. 

 Anat. des Anim., 1792). 



Crooodilus Laur. (Syst. Rept., p. 5.3, 1768). 



Type by tautonomy Crocodilus niloticus Laur. (= Lacerta croco- 

 dilus Linn. part.). 



Alligator Cuvier (Ann. du Musee, X, p. 63, 1807). 



Type by elimination Crocodilus lucius Cuv. (= Crocodilus missis- 

 sippiensis Daudin). 



TESTUDINATA. 



Oppel (Ord. and Fam. Rept., p. 3, 1811). Turtles were placed in the 

 genus Testudo by Linnaeus. They were not mentioned by Laurenti. 

 According to Dr. Stejneger they were named Testudines by Batsch 

 (1788). They were called "cheloniens" by Brongniart, Daudin and 

 Cuvier. Chelonii by Latreille {Hist. Nat. des Salamandres de France, 

 etc., p. xi, 1800) and Dumeril (1806). Cataphracta Link (1807). Dr. 

 Stejneger properly objects to the use of the mere plural of the generic 

 terms Testudo and Chelonia, and accepts Oppel's name rather than 

 resurrect the obscure Cataphracta Link, four years earlier. 



ATHECE. 

 DERMOOHELID^. 

 Dermochelys Blain. (Bull. Soc. Philom., 1816, p. 111). 



This genus was based upon the "tortue a cuir" (= Testudo coriacea 

 Linn.). 



= Sphargis Merrem (1820), same type. 



THECOPHORA. 

 CHELYDRID^. 



Chelydra Schweig. (Prod., p. 23, 1814). 



Monotype TestuAo serpentina Linn. 

 = Chelonura Fleming (1822). Same type. 

 8 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Maoroolemmys Gray (Cat. Sh. Kept., I, p. 48, 1855). 



Monotype Chelonura temminckii Holb. 

 = Macrochehjs Gray (1856). Same type. 



OINOSTERNID^. 



Cinostemum Spix (Spec Nov. Test., p. 17, 1824). 



Founded upon Kinosternon longicaudatum and K. hrevicaudatum. 

 Both being synonyms of Testudo scorpioides Linn., the genus is mono- 

 typic. 



> Thyrosternum Agass. (1857). Type Cinostemum pennsylvanicum. 



> Plafythyra Agass. (1857). Type Cinostemum flavescens. 



Sternothoerus Gray (Ann. of Philo.s., 1825, p. 193). 



Type by ehmination S. odoratus Daudin. Also by designation of 

 Fitzinger {Syst. Rept., p. 29, 1843). 



Stemothceriis as cited by Gray from Bell's manuscript contained S. 

 odorata and S. pennsylvanica. The last belonging strictly to Cino- 

 stemum Spix, odorata becomes the type. This use of the name ante- 

 dates by a short time Sternothoerus Bell (Zool. Jour., 11,305, 1825). 

 Aromochelys Gray (1855) also has odorata for type. 



TESTUDINID^. 



Chrysemys Gray (Cat. Tort., p. 27, 1844). 



Founded on Emys picta Schweig. and E. belli Gray. Gray retained 

 ■picta as the type {Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1869, p. 191). 



> Pseudemys Gray (1855). Type Pseudemys concinna. 



> Ptychemys Agass. (1857). Type Ptychemys concinna. 

 '^ Trachemys Agass. (1857). Type Trachemys scabra. 



> Deirochelys Agass. (1857). Type Deirochelys reticulata, 

 y- CaUichelys Gray (1863) . Type Emys ornata. 



Halaooolemmys^ Gray (Cat. Tort., p. 27, 1844). 



Monotype Testudo concentrica Shaw (= Testudo terrapin SchoepfT). 



> Graptemys Agass. (1857). Type Graptemys geographica. 

 Clemmys Ritgen (Nova Acta Acad. Leop. Car., XIV, pt. 1, 272. 1828). 



Type by elimination Emys punctata ( = Testudo guttata Schn.). 



= Chelopus Rafin. (1832). Same type. 

 = Nanemys Agass. (1857). Same type. 



> Calemys Agass. (1857). Tj-pe Calemys muhlenbergi. 



> Giyptemys Agass. (1857). Type Glyptemys insculptus. 



> Actinemys Agass. (1857). Type Actinemys marmorata. 



Emys Oppel (Ord. Fam. Rept., p. 11, 1811).= 



Oppel cited three species : 



' Written Malaclemys by Gray, but stated by him to be a mistake. 

 ^Emys Dum^ril {Zool. Anal, p. 76, 1806) 'is not used in a properly generic 

 sense and has no standing. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



"Sterno antice mobile — E. lutaria." 



''Sterno cmciforme j '^'P'^'f,^;; ^^f ^/'" ^^ ^^^^^ 

 ( longicoUis < Chelodina Fitz., 1826. 



Emys lutaria was also designated as the type by Fitzinger in 1843, 

 under the name of Emys europcea Schw. 



= Ermjdoidea Gray (1870). T>T)e Emys Blandingii. 

 Ttrrapene Merrem (Tent. Syst. Amph., p. 27, 1820). 



Type T. clausa Merr. ( = Testudo Carolina Linn.). By designation of 

 Gray (Ann. of Philos., X, 1825, p. 192). 



Cistudo Fleming (Phil. ZooL, II, p. 270, 1822), often used for these 

 turtles, is wanting in definition and in any case is an exact synonym 

 of Terrapene Merrem, two years its senior, both being founded on 

 Cuvier's "tortues a boite." 



Didicla Rafin. (Atl. Journal, 1832, p. 64) has T. dmisa for type and is 

 also a synonym. 



Testudo Linn. (Syst. Nat., Ed. X, p. 197, 1758). 



Type Testudo graeca Linn. By designation of Fitzinger (Syst. 

 RepL, 29, 1843). 



> Gopherus Rafin. (1832). Type Testudo polyphemus. 



> Xerobates Agass. (1857). Type Testudo herlandieri. 



CHELONID^. 



Chelonia Latreille (Hist. Nat. Kept., 1, p. 22, 1802). 



Type Testudo mydas Linn. By original designation. This genus is 

 often attributed to Brongniart (Bull. Soc. Philom., 11, p. 89, 1800). 

 In that place, however, it rests upon these words onl)% "G. Chelone- 

 Chelonia (ce sont les tortues de mer)," and is a nomen nudum. 



Caretta Rafin. (SpeccioSci. (Palermo), 11, 66, 1814). 



Monotype C. nasuta Raf. (= T. caretta Linn.). 

 Rafinesque's words are "Caretta nasuta Raf., Testudo caretta Linn." 

 = ThalassochelysY'iiz.{\S'ib). Same type. 

 Eretmoohelys Fitz. (Syst. Rept., p. 30, 1843). 



Type Chelonia imhricata Cuv. By original designation. 



TRIONYOHID^. 



Platypeltis Fitz. (Ann. Wien Mus., 1, pp. 120, 127, 1835). 



Type Platypeltis ferox Schweig. 



The two species named by Fitzinger, Trionyx brongniartii Schw. and 



T. ferox Schw. are identical, and the genus is therefore monotypic. The 



same species was designated by Fitzinger (Syst. Rept., 30, 1843). 



Amyda Oken (1816). Type Trionyx euphraticus. 

 Aspidonectes Wagl. (1830). Type Trionyx cegypticus. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



SQUAMATA. 



Correctly outlined by Merrem {Tent. Syst. Amph., p. 39, 1820) with 

 groups (I) Gradientia, (II) Repentia, (III) Serpentia. 



Oppel used Squamata in 1811 with groups (I) saurii, (II) ophidii, 

 but he included crocodiles in saurii. 



LACERTILIA. 



Authors previous to Owen either included with lizards the crocodiles, 

 or omitted serpentiform lizards, under the names Gradientia, "sau- 

 riens," or saurii. They were first correctly delimited under the name 

 Lacertilia by Owen {Rep. Br. Ass. Adv. of Sc, 1841, p. 162). 



GEOKONIDuE. 



Phyllodactylus Gray (Spicilegia Zoologica, p. 3, 1830). 



Monotype Phyllodactylus pulcher Gray. 

 Sphfflrodaotylua Wagl. (Syst. Amph., p. 143, 1830). 



Type Sphcerodactylus sputator Sparr. By designation of Fitzinger 

 {Syst. Rept., 18, 1843). It was also the only one of Wagler's species 

 retained in the genus by Gray (1831) and Dumeril and Bibron (1836). 



EUBLEPH ARID^ . 



Coleonix Gray (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 184,5, 162). 



Type Coleonyx elegans Gray. By designation of Boulenger {Cat. 

 Liz. Br. Mus., 1, p. 234, 1885). 



IGUANID^. 



Anolis Daudin (Hist. Nat. Rept., IV, p. 50, 1803). 



According to Dr. Stejneger {Herp. of Porto Rico, 625, 1904) the type 

 of Anolis is A. hullaris. But the pertinency of this name to any known 

 species is far from certain. Lacerta hullaris linn, rests on Catesby's 

 plate 66, "Lacerta viridis jamaicensis ," whose recognition is chiefly 

 an act of faith. No other of the early authors added exactness to its 

 use. A. hullaris Daud. {I. c, p. 69) is based on L. hullaris Linn., adding 

 thereto Catesby's plate 65, "Lacerta viridis carolinensis /' and another 

 unassignable Linnean name, L. strumosa. Dumeril and Bibron (Vol. 

 4, pp. 117, 120) divide A. hullaris Daud. into A. chloro-cyanus and A. 

 carolinensis, considering the first of these species to be questionably 

 L. hullaris Linn. As A. carolinensis D. and B. rests on a firm basis in 

 Catesby, it would seem that this name should not be disturbed, and 

 that hullaris of authors should be permitted to remain in obscurity. 




1508.] NATUKAX, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Ctenosaura Wiegman (Isis, 1828, p. 371). 



Monotype Ctenosaura cyduroides Wieg. (= Lacerta acanthura Shaw). 



Dipsosaurus Hallowell (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, 92). 



jMonotype Crotaphytus dorsalis B. and G. 



CrotaphytUS Holbrook (No. Am. Herp., II, p. 79, 1842). 



Monotype Agama collaris Say. 



Sauromalus DuoKiril (Arch, du Mus., VIII, 535, 1856). 



Monotype Sauromalus ater Dum. 



Callisaurus Blainville (Nouv. Ann. du Mus., IV, 286, 1835). 



Type Callisaurus draconoides Blain. By original designation. 



Uma Baird (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, p. 253). 



Monotype Uma notata Bd. 



Holbrookia Girard (Proc. A. A. A. Science, IV. 201, 1851). 



Monotype Holbrookia maculata Gir. 



Uta Baird and Girard (Stans. Exp. Gr. Salt Lake, 344, 1852). 



Type Uta stanshuriana B. and G. By original designation. 



Soeloporus Wiegman (Isis, 1828, p. 369). 



Type Sceloporus torquatus Wieg. By designation of Fitzinger 

 (Syst. Rept., p. 17, 1843). 



PhrynoBoma Wiegman (Isis, 1828, p. 367). 



Subgenus Phrynosoma Wieg. Type Lacerta orhicidare Linn. By 

 designation of Wiegman {Herp. Mex., 18, 1834). 



Subgenus Anota Hallowell {Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1852, p. 182). 

 Monotype Anota Mccallii Hallow. 



HELODERMATIDiE. 



Heloderma Wiegman (Isis, 1829, p. 627). 



Monotype Heloderma horridum Wieg. 



ANGUID^. 

 OpMsaurus Daudin (Hist. Rept., VII, 346, 1803). 



Monotype Anguis ventralis Linn. 



DiploglosSUS Wiegman (Herp. Mex., 36, 1834). 



Type Tiliqua fasciata Gray. By designation of Dum. and Bib. 

 {Erp. Gen., V, 588, 1839).^ 



Subgenus Celestus Gray (Aim. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1839, p. 288). 

 Monotype Celestus striatus Gray. 



^ The subgenus Diploglossus is extra limital. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apfil, 



GerrhonotUS Wiegman (Isi?, 1828, p. 379). 



Subgenus Gerrhonotus Wieg. Type Gerrhonotus tessellatus Wieg. 

 ( = G. liocephalus Wieg.)- By designation of Fitzinger {Syst. Rept., 

 21, 1843). 



Subgenus Barissia Gray {Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1838, p. 390). Type 

 Barissia imbricata Gray. By designation of Stejneger {Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus.,XUI, 183, 1890). 



XANTUSIIDiE. 



XantUBia Baird (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, p. 255). 



Monotype Xantusia vigilis Bd. 



Zablepsis Cope (Amer. Naturalist, 1895, p. 758). 



Type Xantusia henshawi Stej. B}'^ original designation. 



Amoebopsis Cope (Amer. Naturalist, 1895, p. 758). 



Type Xantusia gilberti Van Den. By original designation. 



TEIID^. 

 Cnemidoplieraa Wagler (Syst. Amph., 154, 1830). 



Subgenus Cnemidophorus Wagl. Type Seps murinus Laur. By 

 designation of Fitzinger {Syst. Rept., 20, 1843). Dr. H. Gadow, in an 

 interesting analysis' of this genus (P. Z. S. London, 1906, 1, p. 288), 

 makes reference to C. sexlineatus as being the type. But in no way 

 could this be, for it is not one of the species enumerated by Wagler. 



Subgenus Verticaria Cope {Proc. Am. Phil. Sac, 1869, p. 158). Type 

 Cnemidophorus hyperythrus Cope. By original designation. 



SOINOIDuE. 



LygOSOma Gray (Zool. Journal, III, 1827, p. 228). 



Monotype Lacerta serpens Bloch ( = L. chalcides Linn.). 



Subgenus Liolepisma Dum. and Bib. {Erp. Gen., V, 742, 1839). 

 Monotype Scincus telfairi Desj . 



= Oligosoma Girard (1857). Type Mocoa zelandica. 

 PlMtiodon Dum. and Bib. (Erp. Gen., V, 697, 1839). 



Type Lacerta quinquelineata Linn. By designation of Fitzinger 

 {Syst. Rept., p. 22, 1843). 



Eumeces Wiegman {Herp. Mex., p. 36, 1834) can not be used for this 

 genus. Wiegman included in it three species : 



1. Scincus pavimentatus Geofi. < Plestiodon D. and B., 1839. 



2. Scincus rufescens Merreni = type of Eumeces Fitz., 1843. 



3. Scincus punctatus Schn. = type of Eumeces D. and B., 1839. 

 The selection of S. punctatus Schn. (not Riopa punctata Gray, 1839) 




1008.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



as type by Dumeril and Bibron (Vol. Y, p. 630) ties Eumeces to a sec- 

 tion of skinks with iinseparated pterygoids. The available name for 

 the present genus seems to be Plestiodon. 



ANELYTROPID^. 



AnelytropsiS Cope (Proc. Am. Phila. Soc, 1885, p. 3S0). 



Monotype Anelytropsis papillosus Cope. 

 ANNIELLID^. 



Anniella Gray (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1852, p. 440). 



Monotype Anniella pulchra Gray. 



EUOHIROTID^. 



Euchirotes Cope (Amer. Naturalist, 1894, p. 4.36). 



i\Ionotype Euchirotes biporus Cope. 



AMPHISBuS3NID ^ . 



Rhineura Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861, p. 75). 



Type Lepidosternum floridana Bd. By original designation. 



OPHIDIA. 



Serpentes Linn, included snakes, amphisbsenians and csecilians, as 

 also did Serpentia Laiir. (1768) and Ophidii Daudin (1803). Serpentes 

 Dumeril (1806) included csecilians. Ophidii Oppel (1811) and Ser- 

 pentia Merrem (1820) included amphisbsenians. The serpents were 

 first cleared of unrelated forms by Ciray, using the name Ophidii 

 (Ann. of Philos., 1825, p. 204). 



LEPTOT YPHLOPID^ . 



LeptOtyphlops Fitzinger (Syst. Rept., p. 24, 1843). 



Type Typhlops nigricans Schlegel. By original designation. 



= Glauconia Gray (184.5). Type Typhlops ?iigricans. 



> Rena B. and G. (1853). Type Rena dulcis B. and G. 



> Siagonodon Veters (1881). Type Typhlops septetnstriatus Schn. 



BOIDiE. 



Lichanura Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861, p. 304). 



^lonotype Lichanura trivirgata Cope. 



Charina Gray (Cat. Sn. Br. Mus., p. 113, 1849). 



Monotype Tortrix hottce Blain. 



= Wenona B. and G. (1853). Type Wenona plunibea B. and G. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



COLUBRID^. 

 Tropidonotus Boi(S (Isis, 1826, I, p. 204). 



Type Coluber natrix Linn. By designation of Boie {Isis, 1827, p. 

 518). 



= Natrix Laur. (Cope, 18SS). Not Cope, 1862. 



> Nerodia B. and G. (1853). Tj^pe Coluber sipedon Linn. 



> Regina B. and G. (1853). TyY>e Coluber leberis Linn. 



> Clonophis Cope (1888). Tj-pe Regina kirtlandii Kenn. 



The use of Natrix Laur. for this genus does not appear to me obliga- 

 tory or excusable. The rule under which types of undefined genera 

 are accepted does not constrain or even imply that, in the case of an 

 originally defined genus, a species must be accepted as type having 

 characters contrary to the definition. If it did so, the only consistent 

 course would be to admit that the Code does not consider definitions at 

 all. It was pointed out by me (Science, July 6, 1907, p. 117) that of 

 the fourteen recognizable species cited by Laurenti under Natrix, now 

 distributed among eight genera, the two belonging to the present genus 

 are the only ones at diametric variance with " Truncus glabernitidus," 

 which is the sole character of diagnostic value in the definition. 



Because Fleming (Philos. of ZooL, II, p. 291, 1822) chose to select an 

 unconforming type for Natrix in T. torquata (= Coluber natrix Linn.), 

 or because the rule of "type by tautonomy" could be applied to the 

 case, it does not follow that we are compelled to use Natrix. It is still 

 open to rejection for any group as a meaningless conglomerate. It is 

 also questionable whether Fleming's citation of a species after some of 

 the genera given by him constitutes selection of a type in accordance 

 with paragraph llg of Article 30. 



As first published in a posthumous letter from Kuhl (Isis, 1822, p. 

 473) Tropidonotus is a nomen nudum. But four years later it was well 

 defined by Boie (Isis, 1826, 1, 204), who credited it to Kuhl, and named 

 under it Coluber natrix Linn, and viperinus Daudin. The following 

 year he definitely fixed natrix as the type. 



Thamnophis Fitzinger (Syst. Kept., p. 26, 1843). 



Type Tropidonotus sauritus Schl. By original designation. 



= Eutcenia B. and G. (1853). Same type. 



> Atomarchus Cope (1883). Type Atomarchus multimaculatus Cope. 



> Stypocemus Cope (1875). Tj^pe Stypocemus rufopunctatus Coi>e, by substitu- 



tion for Chilopoma Cope, preoccupied. 



Tropidoclonium Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 76). 



Type Microps lineatiim Hallow. By original designation. 



Seminatrix Cope (Anier. Naturalist, 1895, p. 678). 



Type Seminatrix pygceus Cope. By original designation. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Helicops Wagler (S3-st. Amph., 170, 1830). 



Type Helicops carinicaudatus Wagl. B}^ designation of Fitzinger 

 {Syst. RepL, 25, 1843). 



> Liodytes Cope (1885). T\-pe Helicops alleni Garm. 

 Amphiardis Cope (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1888, p. 391). 



Type Virginia inornata Garm. By original designation. 



Haldea B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp., 122, 1853). 



Type Coluber striatula Linn. By original designation. 



Storeria B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp., 135, 1853). 



Type Tropidonotus dekayi Holb. By original designation. 

 = Ischnognathus Dum. and Bib. (1853). Same type. 

 DrymarcllOll Fitzinger (Syst Kept., 26, 1843). 



T3'pe Coluber corais Daudin. By original designation. 



< Spiloies ^^'agle^ (1830). Type S. pullatus. 



= Compsosoma Cope (1895). No tj^pe. = Compsosoma Dum. and Bib. part. 

 = Georgia B. and G. (1853). Type Coluber couperi Holb. 



Drymobius Fitzinger (Syst. Kept., 26, 1843). 



Type Herpetodryas margaritiferus Schl. By original designation. 



Callopeltis (Fitz.) Bonap. (Icon. Fauna Ital., Vol. II, and Mem. Acad. Torino (2), 11,401, 1840). 



Type Coluber leopardinus. By original designation of Fitzinger. 



= Coluber auctores. 



> Scofophis B. and G. (1853). Tjqje Coluber allegheniensis Holb. 

 = Xatrix Laur. (Cope, 1862). Not Cope, 1888. 



Arizona Kenn. (U. S. Mex. Bound. Surv., 18, 1859). 



Monot3'pe Arizona elegans Kenn. 



< Rhinechis^licah. (1833). Type Rhinechis scalaris. 

 Pityophis Holbrook (No. Am. Herp., IV, 7, 1842). 



Monotype Coluber melanoleu^us Daudin. 



Coluber Linn (Syst. Nat. Ed., X, 216, 1758). 



Type Coluber constrictor Linn. By designation of Fitzinger {Syst. 

 RepL, 26, 1843). 



= Zamenis 'SXagler (1830). Type Xatrix gemonensis Laur. 



> Bascanium B. and G. (1853). Type Coluber constrictor Linn. 

 y>Masticophis B. and G. (1853). Type Coluber flagelhim Shaw. 



ITnder the new Rule 30 we are no longer bound to Laurenti's notion, 



as first reviser, of the Umits of Coluber and are therefore freed from the 



consideration of Dr. Stejneger's proposal {Herp. of Japan, pp. 307, 



443, 1907) to transfer the name to the genus otherwise known as 



Vipera I^aur. — a change which would have been serious in view of all 



the connotations of the word "coluber." The present shifting of the 



term to replace Bascanium, following Fitzinger's selection of a type, 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



long antedates Collett's designation of Vipera ferus and has the good 

 fortune to preserve both the long established family names Coluhridce 

 and Viperidce. 



Salvadora B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp., 104, 1853). 



Type Salvadora Grahamke B. and G. By original designation. 

 = Phimothyra Cope (1860). Same type. 

 Phyllorhynohus Stejneger (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.. 1890, p. 151). 



Type PhyUorhynchus hrowni Stej. By original designation. 



Opheodrys Fitzinger (Syst. Kept., 26, 1843). 



Type Herpetodryas cestivus Schl. By original designation. 



< Le pto phis BeW (1826) . Type Leptophis ahwtuUa. 



<; Cydophis Gunther (1858). Type Herpetodryas tricolor. 



Liopeltis Fitzinger (Syst. Kept., 26, 1843). 



Type Herpetodryas tricolor Schl. By original designation. 



> Chlorosoma B. and G. (1853). Type Coluber vernalis DeKay. 

 Contia B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp., 110, 1853). 



Type Contia mitis Bd. By original designation. 



Pseudoficimia Bocourt (Miss. Sci. au Max., 572, 1883) 



Monotype Pseudoficimia pulchra Boc. 



Conopsis Giinther (Cat. Sn. Br. Mus., 6, 1858). 



Monotype Conopsis nasus Giinth. 



Toluca Kennicott (U. S. and Mex. Bound. Surv., 23, 1859). 



Monotype Toluca lineata Kenn. 



DiadopMs B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp., 112, 1853). 



Type Coluber punctatus Linn. By original designation. 



Lampropeltis Fitzinger (Syst. Rept.,25, 1843). 



Type Herpetodryas getulus Schl. By original designation. 



= Ophibolus B. and G. (1853). Type Coronella sayi Holb. 



> Osceola B. and G. (1853). Type Calamaria elapsoiclea Holb. 



Stilosoma A. Brown (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 199, 1890). 



Monotype Stilosoma extenuatum A. Brown. 



CarphopMs Gervais (Diet. Hist. Nat. d'Orbigny, III, 191, 1843). 



Monotype Coluber amoenus Say. 



> Carphophiops Gervais (1843). Type C. vermifortnis. 

 = Celuta B. and G. (1853). Type Coluber amoejius Sav. 



= Brachyorros Holbrook (1842). Same type. Not of Boie (1827). 



Faranoia Gray (Zool. Misc., p. 68, 1842). 



Monotype Farancia Drummondi Gray (= Coluber abaciirus Holb.). 



Abastor Gray (Cat. Sn. Br. Mus., p. 78, 1849). 



Monotype Helicops erythrogrammus Wagler. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Virginia B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp., p. 127. 1853). 



Type Virginia Vcdcrice B. and G. By crrigmal designation. 



Ficimia Gray (Cat. Sn. Br. Mus., p. 80. 1849). 



^lonotype Ficimia olivacea Gray. 



Chilomeniscus Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1860. p. 339). 



^lonotype Chilomeniscus stramineus Cope. 



Cemophora Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 244). 



Type Coluber coccineus Blum. By original designation. 



Rhinochilus B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp., p. 120, 1853). 



Type Rhinochilus Lecontei B. and G. By original designation. 



Hypsijlena Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 246). 



Type Hypsiglena ochrorhyncha Cope. By original designation. 



Rhadinea Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, p. 10). 



Type Tceniophis vermiculaticeps Cope. By original designation. 



Prof. Cope subsequently (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1868, 132) 

 named R. melanocephala D. and B. as the type, and again {Rep. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1898, p. 754) he says the type is R. obtusa Cope. The 

 genus was, however, distinctly founded upon T. vermiculaticeps on its 

 first publication in 1863. 



Heterodon Latreille (Hist. Nat. des Kept., IV, p. 32, 1800). 



^Monotype Heterodon platyrhinus Latr. 



Trimorphodon Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861, p. 297). 



Type Trimorphodon lyrophanes Cope. By original designation. 



Leptodira Fitzinger (Syst. Kept., p. 27, 1843). 



Type Dipsas anmdatus Schl. By original designation. Sihon Fitz. 

 {Neue Class Rept., 1826, p. 29) can not be used for this genus of opistho- 

 glyph snakes. It has, by tautonomy, f or type Coluber nebulatus Linn. 

 (= Coluber sibon Linn.), which is the type of Petalognathus Dum. and 

 Bib. 



Manolepis Cope (Proc. Am. Philos. Soc, 1885, p. 76). 



Type Tomodon nasutus Cope. By original designation. 



Concphis Peters (Monats. Berl. Acad., 1860. p. 519). 



jMonotype Conophis vittatus Peters. 



Erythrolamprus Boie (Isis. 1826, p. 981). 



Monotype Coluber venustissimus Pr. Max. 

 = Coniophanes Hallow. (1S60). Type C. fissidens. 

 Scolecophis Fitzinger (Syst. Rept., p. 25, 1843). 



Type Calamaria atrocincta SchL By original designation. 




124 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Tantilla B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp., p. 131, 1853). 



Type Tantilla coronata B. and G. By original designation. 



= Homalocraniuni Dum. and Bib. (Erp. Gen., YIl, 855, 1854). Type H. 

 planiceps (not of Dum. and Bib., Mem. Acad. Sci., 1853, p. 490. Tj-pe 

 Calamaria hrachyorros Hallow.). 



Elaps Schneider (Hist. Amph., II, p. 289, 1801). 



Type Ela'ps lemniscatus linn. By designation of Gray (Ann. of 

 Philos., 1825, p. 206). 



Fleming (Philos. ZooL, II, p. 295, 1822) mentions Elaps lacteus, but it 

 does not appear that in this work types are selected as required by the 

 present rule. 



VIPBRID^. 

 Anoistrodon Beauvois (Trans. Am. Philos. Soc, IV, p. 381, 1799). 



Monotype Agkistrodon mokasen Beau. (= Boa contortrix Linn.). 



Beauvois says (p. 381) under Agkistrodon, "In this last division 

 should be arranged the mokasen," which on p. 370 he refei"s to as 

 Agkistrodon mokasen. 



Sistrurus Garman (No. Am. Rept., p. 110, 1883). 



Type Crotalus miliarius Linn. By substitution. 



Crotalus Linn. (Syst. Nat., Ed. X, p. 214, 1758). 



Type Crotalus horridus Linn. By designation of Gray (Ann. of 

 Philos., 1825, p. 205). 



A.AIPHIBIA. 



According to Dr. Stejneger Batrachia was used for the first time by 

 Batsch (1788) as an exact synonym of Salientia Laurenti (1768), for 

 which reason he thinks it should not be used for a di\ision of wider 

 scope. Brongniart (1800) had very nearly an exact conception of the 

 contents of this class, for he even suspected that the csecilians belong 

 to it, but he used only the vernacular '' batraciens." All other authors 

 omitted csecilians down to 1811, when Oppel used Nuda for the class, 

 with orders (I) Apoda, (II) Ecaudata, (III) Caudata. Merrem (1820) 

 used Batrachia with (I) Apoda, (II) Salientia, (III) Gradientia. 



Amphibia Linn, included reptiles and amphibians, but was never 

 used in exact form until Gray correctly applied it (Ann. of Philos. 

 (n. s.), 10, p. 213, 1825). 



By strict priority the name would be Nuda Oppel, but fortunately 

 it is not necessary to replace a well-known class name by one so 

 obscure. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



SALIENTIA. 



Salientia Laurenti {Syn. Rept., p. 24, 1768) contained the genera 

 Rana, Pipa, Hyla and Bufo, as well as Proteus, which seems to have 

 been founded on a tadpole of Rana. It is therefore equivalent to and 

 much older than Ecaudata Dumeril (1806). Anura, attributed by 

 Cope to Dumeril, has no standing, as that author used only "anoures." 



RANID^. 



Rana Linn. (Syst. Nat., Ed. X, p. 354, 1758). 



Type Rana temporaria Linn. By designation of Gray (Ann. of 

 Philos., 1825, p. 214). 



ENGYSTOMATID^E. 



Engystoma Fitzinger (Neue Class Kept., p. 65, 1826). 



Rana oralis Schneider is the only one of Fitzinger's species retained 

 in Engystoma by Dumeril and Bibron {Erp. Gen., 8, p. 741, 1841) and 

 is consequently the type. 



Hypopachus Kerferstein (Gottingen Nachrichten, 1867, p. 352). 



]\Ionotype Hypopachus Seebachii Kerf. (= H. variolosum Cope). 

 OYSTIGNATHID^. 



Lithodytes Fitzinger (Syst. Rept., p. 31, 1843). 



Type Hylodes lineatus D. and B. By original designation. 



Syrrophus Cope (Amer. Naturalist, 1878, p. 253). 



Monotype Syrrhophus marnockii Cope. 

 HYLID^. 



Chorophilus Baird (Froc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, p. 60). 



Monotype Cystignathus nigritus Holb. 



Acris Dum. and Bib. (Erp. Gen., 8, p. 506, 1841). 



Type Hylodes gryllus DeKay. By designation of Baird (Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, p. 59). 



Hyla Laurenti (Syst. Rept., p. 32, 1768). 



T3q3e Hyla viridis ( = H. arhorea Linn.) fide Stejneger. 



Smilisca Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 194). 



Monotype Smilisca daulinia Cope (= Hyla haudinii Dum. and Bib.), 

 BUFONID^. 



Bufo Laurenti (Sy.st. Rept., p. 25, 1758). 



Type by tautonomy Bufo vulgaris Laur. ( = Rana bufo Linn.). 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



PELOBATID^. 

 Soaphiopus Holbrook (No. Am. Herp., I, p. 85, 1836). 



]\Ionotype Scaphiopus solitarius Holb. 



Spea Cope (Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2), VI, p. 81, 1866). 



Type Scaphiopus hombifrons Cope (= *S. hammondi Baird). By 

 original designation. 



CAUDATA. 



Dumeril (Zoologie Analytique, 94, 1806), "les batraciens urodeles 

 (caudati)." The following year {Nouv. Bull, des Sc, 1807, p. 36) he, 

 definitely says ''order Caudati." Urodela is often based upon this 

 reference, but Dumeril used neither it nor Anura in Latin form. 



PLEURODELIDuSJ . 



Diemyotylus Rafinesque (Ann. of Nature, 1820, No. 22, p. 5). 



Type Triturus viridescens. By original designat 



ion. 



DESMOQNATHID^. 



Desmognathus Baird (Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2), 1, pp. 282,' 285, 1850). 



Type Triturus fuscus Rafin. , 



PLETHODONTID^ 



Autodax Boulenger (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1887, p. 67). 



Type Anaides luguhris Baird. By substitution for Anaides Baird 

 (1849), preoccupied. 



Gyrinophilus Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1869, p. 108). 



Monotype Salamandra porphyriticus Green. 



Spelerpei Rafinesque (Atlantic Journal, I, p. 22, 1832). 



Type Spelerpes lucifuga Rafin. (= Salamandra lorigicauda Green). 

 By original designation. 



Mancalus Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1869, pp. 95, 101). 



Monotype Salamandra quadridigitata Holb. 



Stereoohilus Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1869, p. 100). 



Monotype Pseudotriton marginatum Hollow. 



Plethodon Tschudi (M^m. Soc. Neuchatel, 1838, pp, 59, 92). 



Type Salamandra glutinosa Green. By designation of Bonaparte 

 {Fauna Ital, H, 131). 



Hemidaotylium Tschudi (M^m. Soc. Neuchatel, 1838, pp. 59, 94). 



Type Salamandra scutata Schl. By original designation. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 127 



Batrachoseps Bonaparte (Fauna Ital., II, 131). 



Type Salamandra attenuaia Esch. By original designation. 

 AMBYSTOMIDJE. 



Dioamptodon Strauch (Mem. Acad. Sci. St. Peters., (7), XVI, No. 4, p. 68, 1870). 



Monotype Triton ensatus Esch. 



Ambystoma Tschudi (Mem. Soc. Neuchatel, 1838, pp. 57, 92). 



Type Ambystoma subviolacea Tsch. (= Lacerta punctata Linn.). By 

 original designation. 



> Linguelapsus Cope (1SS7). Type L. lepturus Cope. 

 ChondrotUS Cope (Amer. Naturali-st, 1887, p. 88). 



Type Chondrotus tenebrosus. By original designation. 

 CR YPTOBR ANOHID^ . 



CryptobrancllUS Leuckart (Isis, 1821, Litt. Anz., p. 260). 



Monotype Salamandra gigantea Barton (= Cryptobranchus alle- 

 gheniensis) . 



AMPHIUMID^. 



Amphiuma Garden (Smith's Corres. of Linn*us, I, 599). 



Type Amphiuma means Gard. By original designation. 

 PROTEIDiE. 



Necturus Rafinesque (Jour, de Phys., Vol. 88. p. 418, 1819). 



JMonotype Necturus macidatus. 



Rafinesque gave the names of six species under Necturus, of which 

 macidatus is the only one recognizable, leaving the genus practically 

 monotypic. 



SIRENID^. 

 Siren Linn. (Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, p. 371, 1766). 



Monotype Siren lacertina Linn. 



Fseudobranchua Gray (Ann. of Philos., 1825, p. 216). 



Monotype Siren striata LeConte. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



METHODS OF RECORDING AND UTILIZING BIRD-MIGRATION DATA. 

 BY WITMER STONE. 



The custom of recording the dates of arrival of migrant birds has 

 been practised for a great many years in various countries, and more 

 recently attempts have been made to encourage the keeping of such 

 records on a uniform plan and to gather them together for the purpose 

 of study and comparison. 



In America this work was begun in 1884 under the direction of the 

 American Ornithologists' Union, and since 1885 has been conducted 

 by the Division of Biological Survey (formerly Ornithology and Mam- 

 malogy) of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



All the published records with which I am familiar represent the 

 work of one individual at each station, and until very recently there 

 has been no attempt made to compare the records of several observers 

 at practically the same locality. 



The meagerness of the data that it is possible for one individual to 

 gather on bird migration, compared with the magnitude of the phenom- 

 enon, must be apparent to all, and yet we are constantly attempting 

 all sorts of estimates — as to the rapidity of flight, the relation of fluctu- 

 ation of migration to temperature variation, etc. — based for the most 

 part upon the records of individual observers. 



In 1901 the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club of Philadelphia 

 organized a corps of observers for the study of bird migration in this 

 vicinity. This corps now numbers sixty-three, of which thirty-five are 

 located within ten miles of the center of Philadelphia. 



The study and comparison of the yearly records of these observers 

 throws some interesting light upon the accuracy of individual records 

 and suggests some methods by which a more correct index of the pro- 

 gress of migration may be obtained. 



Many of the records are presented in detail each year in Cassinia 

 the annual publication of the DelaAvare Valley Ornithological Club, 

 and to these, as well as to the original schedules returned by the ob- 

 servers, I am indebted for the data discussed in the present paper. 



In a paper read before the American Ornithologists' Union in New 

 York City in November, 1905, and later published in The Condor, I 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



first called attention to the possibilities of combining a number of 

 individual records, and later Prof. W. W. Cooke of the U. S. Department 

 of Agriculture discussed the same question in a short paper in The 

 Auk for July, 1907, p. 346. These are, I believe, the only papers dealing 

 with this phase of the question. The well-known work of Mr. Otto 

 Herman in Hungary, while probably based upon the most extensive 

 series of data ever collected, does not, so far as I am aware, touch 

 upon the comparison of individual records, at a single locality. 



Individual and Bulk Arrivals. 



One of the most important points for consideration in a bird-migra- 

 tion record is an understanding of just what our date of arrival indicates, 

 A migrating species is not a definite mass, like a railroad train, but a 

 scattered host of individuals requiring weeks or even months to pass a 

 given point and moving intermittently; consequently there may be a 

 great many dates of arrival at that point, according to what part of 

 the moving procession we are considering. 



In the schedules furnished by the U. S. Department of Agriculture 

 the date of "first arrival" is called for, and in addition the date when 

 the species was next seen and when it became common. The object 

 being to differentiate between the arrival of the main flight or "bulk" 

 ■of the species and that of individual early stragglers. 



With the exception of these schedules, nearly all the American 

 migration records with which I am familiar deal only with the date of 

 ■"first arrival," and in the publications that have been based upon the 

 records of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, only one date is usually 

 ^iven, presumably the date of first arrival. 



This would seem to indicate the unsatisfactory nature of the records 

 of bulk arrival, as estimated by an individual observer, a fact which 

 has impressed itself upon me after twenty-five years' experience in 

 recording and tabulating bird migration data. It seems altogether too 

 variable a quantity to be of practical value in making any sort of com- 

 parisons except in special instances. 



Different species of birds vary in the way in which they become 

 abundant at any point; some may come in considerable numbers on 

 the very first day upon which they are seen or a day or so after the 

 ■"first arrival," while others gradually drift in, a few each day, until all 

 the usual haunts are populated, though it is impossible to say upon just 

 which day they became common. In other cases large flocks may 

 "be seen passing overhead some time before an}^ individuals establish 

 themselves in their local summer haunts. It seems, too, that certain 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



species vary in their manner of arrival in different years, being con- 

 centrated one season and scattered in another. 



The proper study of fluctuations in the numbers of each species at 

 any point, such as would warrant an estimate of. bulk arrival, requires, 

 except in a few cases, far more time than the majority of observers can 

 possibly give to the work — if indeed the task is possible for one indi- 

 vidual — and consequently where such an estimate has been attempted 

 the personal equation enters to such an extent as to render the results 

 of little value. 



It would seem that, with the comparatively small amount of time 

 at the disposal of most observers, it would be better to suggest the 

 recording of such occasional "bulk arrivals" as are so marked a feature 

 of the migration as to become obvious, rather than to ask for a record 

 of this sort for each species, which must from the nature of the case be 

 in the vast majority of instances an estimate. 



At the same time, however, the date of the first arrival, often an early 

 straggler, does not in itself give us a proper record of the migration of the 

 species, and it is here that the combination of a number of local records 

 proves invaluable and furnishes a far more accurate resume of the 

 flight of the species than can possibly be obtained by any individual 

 observer. 



For instance take the arrival of the Wood Thrush in the ten-mile 

 circle about Philadelphia in the Spring of 1906. Thirty-one observers 

 recorded it as follows : One on April 25, two on April 28, ten on April 

 29, five on April 30, eight on May 1, and one each on May 2, 3, 4, 10 

 and 12. This record obviously warrants us in saying that for this 

 area pioneer migrants arrived on April 25 and 28, while the bulk of the 

 migration occurred from April 29 to May 1, after which date it was 

 impossible, on account of the presence of the bird at almost all points, 

 to judge how much further transient migration was in progress. The 

 dates upon which the "first arrivals" are massed are obviously the 

 dates upon which the "bulk" arrived. The late dates are to some 

 extent due to failure on the part of the observer to be in the field on the 

 day on which the species first arrived, but in part they represent actual 

 absence of the species from these particular localities, as it is a matter 

 of record that on several occasions a species has been seen regularly 

 for some days at one locality before a single individual has appeared 

 at another station nearby, in spite of careful search at the latter place. 



The actual progress of the arrival of the Wood Thrush in 1906 within 

 the Philadelphia ten-mile circle may be shown more graphically in the 

 accompanying diagrams. 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



131 



Fig. 3. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Up to April 28 (fig. 1) the species had been observed at but three 

 stations, two of these being to the north and northeast of the cit}^ and 

 the other to the southwest. On April 29 (fig. 2) it was present at thir- 

 teen stations, and by Maj' 1 (fig. 3) had been reported by all but three 

 of our observers. 



Mr. Otto Herman's paper in Proc. Fourth Internal. Ornith. Congress, 

 p. 163, was not received until after my diagrams had been prepared. 

 In it he adopts practically the same plan in illustrating the migration 

 of the Swallow in Hungary, and as his maps are based upon 5900 

 returns, it is needless to say they are far more convincing than mine. 



Comparison of Records. 



As already stated most migration records so far obtained are the 

 work of one individual at each locality. Now when we come to com- 

 pare the time of arrival of birds at two points or their arrival at the 

 same point on successive years, it becomes very important for us to 

 consider the extent to which such records reflect the actual progress of 

 migration. The discussion on determining dates of bulk movements in 

 the vicinity of Philadelphia has already shown that while a date of 

 "first arrival" may be perfectly accurate for the limited area covered 

 by an observer, it would differ very materially from the earliest date 

 of arrival for the species in a circle of five or ten miles around that 

 observer's station. 



The work of the Delaware \^alley Ornithological Club for the past 

 seven years has shown that within the Philadelphia ten-mile circle, 

 covering an area with but little variation in altitude, we can detect 

 no constant difference in the time of arrival of a species at any two 

 points dependent upon their geographic position. 



The eariiest record is just as likely to come from the northern portion 

 of the circle as from the southern portion. At one time the records 

 seemed to show a slightly earlier date of arrival immediately along the 

 Delaware river, as compared with stations a few miles back on slightly 

 higher ground, but further data showed this difference to be purely 

 fortuitous. Therefore we can take the records of any one station 

 within this circle as representing the progress of migration at Phila- 

 delphia, just as well as those of any other station within the same 

 radius, and presumably the average dates of arrival of a species for a 

 number of years at several stations within the circle will be the same. 



For certain species which are very conspicuous and which usually 

 arrive in force on the first day of their appearance this is true, but in 

 the majority of species it is by no means so. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



133 



Selecting three localities within the ten-mile circle, at each of which 

 the Club has had several accurate observers for the past seven years, 

 we have the following dates of first arrival. I = Moorestown, N. J.; 

 II = Media and Swarthmore, Pa. ; III = Haverford and Ardmore, Pa. 



Chaetura pelagica (Chimney Swift). 

 I. 



1901 April 27 



1902 



1903 



1904 



1905 



1906 



1907 



21 

 19 

 24 

 21 

 14 

 23 



Average ". April 21 



Tozostoma rufum (Brown Thrasher). 



1901 April 22 



1902 " 22 



1903 " 5 



1904 '' 17 



1905 " 22 



1906 " 21 



1907 " 28 



April 21 



April 24 

 " 12 

 " 15 

 " 14 



" 26 



Average April 19 



Piranga erythromelas (Scarlet Tanager). 



1901 May 5 



1902 " 2 



1903 " 18 



1904 " 6 



1905 " 5 



1906 " 10 



1907 " 12 



Average May 8 



Sayomis phoebe (Phoebe). 



1901 



1902 Mar. 30 



1903 " 17 



1904 April 3 



1905 Mar. 26 



1906 April 8 



1907 Mar. 17 



April 21 



May 12 

 " 1 



April 18 



May 



May 7 



Average ^lar. 27 



Mar. 15 



Mar. 20 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Or, tabulating the averages obtained as above for eleven species, 



we have: No. of days 



I. II. III. difference. 



Chimney Sivift April 21 April 21 April 21 



Phoebe Mar. 27 Mar. 15 Mar. 20 12 



Chipping Sparroiv " 29 April 1 "29 3 



Scarlet Tanager Mav 8 May 4 May 7 4 



Barn Swallow April 19 April 19 April 22 3 



Black-throated Blue Warbler. May 5 Mav 2 May 3 3 



Ovenbird " 1 April 29 April 30 2 



Maryland Yellow-throat April 25 " 26 Mav 2 7 



Catbird " 28 '•' 25 April 30 5 



Brown Thrasher " 19 " 21 " 18 3 



Wood Thrush " 30 " 27 '' 29 3 



This demonstrates conclusively that the average date of arrival 

 for a number of years, based upon the observations of a single individual, 

 varies materially from the average date obtained by another equally 

 accurate observer stationed but a few miles distant. The amount of 

 difference in the case of individual observers is even greater than that 

 shown above, as in these cases the record given for each of the three 

 stations is the result of the combined work of several observers. 



I called attention to the percentage of error in the records of indi- 

 vidual observers in a paper read before the American Ornithologists' 

 Union at New York in November, 1905, and during the Spring of 1907 

 Prof. W. W. Cooke made some experiments along the same line, and 

 his results showed that, compared with the combined work of twenty- 

 three other observers, in the immediate vicinity of Washington, D. C, 

 in this single season his dates of arrival averaged one and three- 

 tenths of a day late, and this in spite of the fact that he spent more 

 time in the field and covered a greater variet}: of country. In my 

 summary given above a single station averages one and nine-tenths 

 of a day later than the earliest average date recorded for the species. 



This information, however, does not help us in using the record of a 

 single observer for comparative study, either as between different 

 years or different stations, and we are forced to the conclusion that 

 results based upon such individual records are really of but little 

 value for comparative work, so great is the possibility of error. 



For instance, quoting from Prof. W. W. Cooke's papers on the 

 Migration of Warblers and Thrushes, as recorded in the schedules of 

 the U. S. Department of Agriculture,^ we have the average dates of the 

 arrival of the following species at Germantown, Pa., a suburb of 

 Philadelphia, and at Washington, D. C. : 



1 Bird Lore, 1905-1907. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



Germantowi) . Washington. Difference. 



Wood Thrush May 1 April 26 5clays. 



Black-throated Blue Warbler May 6 May 2 4 " 



Ovenbird May V April 23 8 " 



Maryland Yellow Throat April 29 April 21 8 '' 



These dates being the averages of a number of years, would seem to be 

 sufficiently accurate for the purpose of estimating the time of flight of 

 the species mentioned between Washington and Philadelphia, and by 

 comparing them we find that it is respectively five days, four days, 

 eight days and eight days. The Germantown records quoted from 

 Prof. Cooke's papers are based upon schedules which I filled out for 

 the Department of Agriculture from 1883 to 1890. I now find that 

 my dates vary from those obtained by other observers in the neighbor- 

 hood of Philadelphia from 1901 to 1907, just as the latter have been 

 shown to vary from each other. 



Had any of the other records from the vicinity of Philadelphia been 

 used in place of the Germantown series, as would have been perfectly 

 justifiable, a very different result would have been obtained; and 

 there is no doubt but that the dates of several individual observers in 

 the vicinity of Washington would show just as much diversity as is 

 shown in our Philadelphia series, which would still further vary the 

 results. 



In a number of instances moreover the difference between the average 

 date of arrival at Washington and Philadelphia, as given in Prof. 

 Cooke's papers, is no greater than that between two stations well within 

 the Philadelphia ten-mile circle. 



In comparing the dates of arrival of species for several consecutive 

 years we also find a considerable variation in the records of nearby 

 stations which we should expect to show uniformit5^ 



For instance, taking the eleven species given in the table on page 134, 

 and computing the average dates of arrival for the six years 1901 to 

 1906 at each of the three stations, and then comparing these with the 

 dates of arrival at each cf the stations in 1907, we find that at station 

 No. I the 1907 dates averaged three days late, while at station No. II 

 they averaged one day late and at station No. Ill they averaged 

 exactly normal, and yet each one of these stations was represented by 

 several accurate observers, and there is nothing in their relative geo- 

 graphic position to warrant any difference. 



Combination of Individual Records. 

 After discrediting the value of individual records, one must natur- 

 2 Omitted in Prof. Cooke's paper, and supplied from my own memoranda. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ally suggest some method of recording migration by which results 

 sufficiently accurate for comparative work are to be obtained. This, 

 I think, is to be found by securing a large number of observers in a 

 limited area and by combining their results, as has been done by the 

 Delaware Valley Ornitliological Club in the vicinity of Philadelphia. 

 If we had seven-year records kept by thirty-five individuals within 

 ten miles of Washington, and a similar series within ten miles of 

 Boston for comparison with the Philadelphia series, then I think we 

 should be able to estimate with some degree of accuracy the progress 

 of migration between these points. 



In a composite record of this kind it is especially worthy of note that 

 more or less fragmentary records are of great value, as an observer 

 who only records a hmited number of species may note some of them 

 earlier than any other observer, while species which he fails to record 

 are noted by others. 



The way in which a number of indvidual records from one vicinity 

 are to be combined in order to get the most reliable results is quite a 

 problem. 



Take, for example, the Ovenbird, Seiurus aurocapillus, for the years 

 1905, 1906 and 1907, as recorded within ten miles of Philadelphia by 

 respectively thirty, thirty-two and thirty-four observers — the number 

 of the observation corps varying somewhat from year to year. 



We find that in 1905 it arrived at one station on April 25; at another 

 on April 28; at eight stations on the 29th, ten on the 30th, etc., i.e. : 



1905— April 25, 28, 29 (8), 30 (10), May 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 (2), 8, 12 (2). 

 1906— April 28 (2), 29 (7), 30 (4), May 1 (5), 2 (3), 3 (4), 4 (2). 5 (3), 



8 12 

 1907— April 26 (2), 27, 28 (4), 29 (5), 30 (2), May 1 (5), 2 (2), 5 (4), 6, 8, 



11 (4), 12, 13, 15. 



If we select the earliest date for each year as the basis of our com- 

 parison, we shall say that 1905 was the earliest season and 1906 the 

 latest. The objection to this is that it considers only the earliest 

 stragglers, whose movements may or may not reflect those of the bulk 

 of the species. 



If we select the average of all the dates for each year we shall have 

 for 1905 May 2, 1906 May 2, 1907 May 3, or 1905 earhest and 1907 

 latest. The objection in this case is that some at least of the late 

 dates of arrival represent errors of observation — i.e., failures to detect 

 the species until it had been present for some days — while others are for 

 stations which are not congenial haunts of the species under considera- 

 tion and at which it is only occasionally seen, and by including these 

 in our computation we obviously make the resultant date too late. 




1908.] , NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



After consideratin-j; many methods it seems that the best date to 

 select is that upon Wiiich the species had arrived at half of the stations, 

 leaving out of consideration entirely the last quarter of the stations 

 that recorded the species, in order to eliminate the probably erroneous 

 or misleading dates. 



Dropping the last quarter of the stations in the case of the Ovenbird, 

 we shall have left for consideration in the three years twenty-three, 

 twenty-four and twenty-six records respectively, i.e. : 



1905— April 25, 28, 29 (8), 30 (10), May 2, 3, 4. 



1906— April 28 (2), 29 (7), 30 (4), Mav 1 (5), 2 (3), 3 (3). 



1907— April 26 (2), 27, 28 (4), 29 (5), 30 (2), May 1 (5), 2 (2), 5 (4), 6. 



The dates by which the species had reached half these stations will 

 then be 1905 April 30, 1906 April 30, 1907 April 30. This is perhaps 

 a poor example as the Ovenbird is such a regular migrant. Indeed a 

 mere glance at the records will show that the bulk of arrivals occurred 

 in 1905 on April 29 and 30, in 1906 on the same days and in 1907 on 

 April 28 and 29, which represents almost the same thing.^ 



In other cases,. however, the massing of arrivals upon a few days is by 

 no means so evident, and some such method as the above is absolutely 

 necessary. For example: 

 Pipilo erythrophthalmus (Towhee). 

 1905— March 24, April 11 (2), 12 (2), 14 (3), 18, 19, 20, 21 (2), 22 (2), 



23(3),24, 25(3),26(2),29, 30. 

 1906— March 6, April 7, 12, 15 (3), 16, 17, 19 (4), 20, 21 (5), 22 (3), 23, 



24, 25 (2), 27 (2), 30 (2). May 8. 

 1907— March 23, 30 (2), April 3, 4, 6, 14, 16, 20, 24, 26 (5), 27 (3), 28, 

 May 1, 4, 5, 6. 



Rejecting the last quarter of the records in each year and selecting 

 the middle one of those remaining, as before, we get: 

 1905 April 19, 1906 April 19, and 1907 April 20. 



Hirundo erytlirogastra (Barn Swallow). 



1905— April 7, 20 (3), 21, 23 (3), 24, 25 (3), 27, 29, 30 (4), May 6, 7, 9. 

 1906— April 11, 12, 14, 17, 19, 21 (2), 22 (3), 25 (4), 26, 28 (2), 30, 



May 3, 6, 19. 

 1907— March 27, April 6, 20, 21, 22 (2), 24 (3), 26 (2), 27, 28 (3), 30, 



May 1, 2, 4, 5 (3), 8 (2), 10, 11, 12, 14. 



1905 April 23, 1906 April 22, 1907 April 26. 



Toxostoma rufum (Brown Thrasher). 



1905— April 9, 13, 14 (2), 16, 18 (2), 19 (2), 21 (2), 22 (6), 23 (3), 24 (4), 

 25(2),26,29, 30, May3. 



' While the migration of 1907 was ver_y late, so far as most of the April and all 

 the May migrants were concerned, a wave just at this time brought the Oven- 

 birds at their normal date. 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



1906— March 9, April 10, 16, 17 (2), 19 (3), 20, 21 (4), 22 (3), 24 (2), 



25 (2), 26, 27, 28 (2). 30, Mav 1 (2), 5. 6. 

 1907— March 13, 17, April 20, 23. 25, 26 (6), 27 (7), 28 (2), 29 (2), 30 



(2), Mav 1 (3), 2, 3, 4'(2), 5, 8, 11 (2). 

 1905 April 22, 1906 April 21, 1907 April 27. 



The above plan gives us a definite date for all sorts of comparisons 

 and one which is independent of the personal equation. The term 

 "became common" may mean a different thing to each individual, but 

 the date upon which a species reached half of the stations at which it 

 was observed represents a definite 'point in the increase of its abundance, 

 and is a matter of record and not of opinion. 



As so little has been attempted in the way of combining local migra- 

 tion records, I find it difficult to discuss the comparative value of dif- 

 ferent methods. Some casual allusions by Prof. Cooke to the methods 

 employed by him form indeed the only contribution to the subject 

 with which I am familiar. He recognizes the clanger of including the 

 latest dates of arrival in computing averages and rejects them, just as 

 I have advocated above, but in deciding how many to reject his method 

 seems to lack clefiniteness and to involve the personal equation. He 

 says {Auk, 1907, p. 347), "When using migration records for the calcula- 

 tion of average dates of arrival, I usually discard dates that are more 

 than six days later than the probable normal date of arrival." This 

 would seem to imply an arbitrary selection of "the probable normal" 

 date before any averaging is done, which seems to be a dangerous 

 method. Again, in referring to the combination of the observations, 

 of twenty-three observers at Washington, D. C, in the Spring of 1907, 

 he says, "Many of the notes were duplicates or of no value, but after all 

 these had been eliminated," etc. [Italics mine]. This is exactly the 

 reverse of my method, instead of rejecting "duplicate" records, 

 these seem to me to be of the utmost value as pointing to the dates 

 upon which the greatest migration took place. It must, however, be 

 borne in mind that Prof. Cooke in this instance is ascertaining the 

 earliest date — not the date of bulk arrival which, as just explained, 

 seems to me a more reliable basis for comparison of migration between 

 two distant points, but one which, as I have also explained, is practically 

 impossible in the absence of a large corps of observers at each point. 



Graphic Representation of Migration. 



In the Auk for 1889 (p. 139) and 1891 (p. 194) I pubhshed some 

 papers on the Graphic Representation of Bird Migration, based in 

 part upon records of the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club for 1890. 



The attempt was made at this time to record tke actual number of 

 individuals or the relative abundance of certain species, as noted each 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



day by five observers, and by plotting the daily totals a chart was 

 obtained representing the fluctuations of the migration, which was 

 shown to correspond to rises and falls in the curve of temperature 

 variation for the same period. In my Birds of Eastern Pennsylvania 

 and New Jersey, 1894 (p. 28), a like method was employed. 



Similar and probably much more accurate results may be obtained by 

 plotting a curve based upon the total "first arrivals" within the ten- 

 mile circle as reported by our Philadelphia migration corps for each 

 day of the Spring. 



In the following diagrams such curves are shown for the years 1902 

 to 1907, accompanied by curves of temperature variation based upon the 

 mean daily temperature at Philadelphia as recorded by the United 

 States Weather Bureau, together with an indication of the days upon 

 which rain or snow fell. For this meteorological data I am under obli- 

 gations to Mr. T. F. Townsend, Director of the Pennsylvania Section, 

 U. S. Weather Bureau. 



In the early part of the season it will be noticed that "waves" of 

 migration follow closely after marked rises in temperature, but later on 

 at the height of the May migration the great "waves " or " rushes " often 

 occur without any corresponding temperature increase. 



It is well known that birds do not start to migrate on a rainy night, so 

 that it is natural to expect sudden drops in the migration curves to be 

 correlated with spells of rainy weather, and such is often the case. 

 Inasmuch as birds are sometimes overtaken by rainstorms after 

 starting on a clear evening, they often arrive at a locality simultane- 

 ously with the rain, and as. it is not possible to indicate in the diagrams 

 the exact time and extent of the daily precipitation allowances must 

 be made for some apparent discrepancies in this respect. 



In the following diagrams the vertical lines represent the days from 

 February 15 to ]\Iay 18, while the horizontal lines denote five degrees 

 difference in the temperature curve and ten units difference in the 

 migration curve; a unit in the latter curve being a "first arrival" record 

 at some one of the stations within ten miles of Philadelphia. Thus if 

 the migration curve reaches ten on a certain day it means ten first 

 arrivals, i. e., one species recorded for the first time at ten stations, 

 two species at five stations each, or ten differezit species each recorded 

 at a single station as the case may be. Periods of rainy weather are 

 indicated by the broken line immediately below the diagram, marked 

 "rain." Each migration is divided into two sections placed opposite 

 to each other, so that the curves run across both pages, with the 

 comments below. In each chart the upper curve represents tempera- 

 ture variation, the lower migration. 




140 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Ro»n — 



In 1902 the temperature rose steadily from Februar}^ 19 to March 1, 

 and a marked migration occurred February 27 to March 1, consisting 

 mainly of the bulk movement of Purple Grackles and Robins. 



The mean temperature during March was 46°, six degrees above the 

 normal; the highest figures being on March 1, 12, 16, 23 and 29. Marked 

 migratory movements occuri-ed on March 10-11, ]\Iarch 23, and March 



1903 



Wfar.i^ 



Rain 



In the season of 1903 there was an almost unbroken rise in tempera- 

 ture from February 19 to February 28, most rapid from the 25th to the 

 end of the month. The bulk movement of Robins and Purple Grackles 

 took place on the 27th, accompanied this year by a considerable migra- 

 tion of Fox Sparrows. 



The mean temperature during March was 49°— unusually high and 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



141 



\SoZ 



29, the Fox Sparrow being a characteristic species of the first move- 

 ment, the Chipping Sparrow and Phoebe of the other two. April was 

 but httle above the normal temperature, the marked increase being on 

 the 11th, 23d and 30th, with corresponding migration on April 12, 13, 

 21-22, 26, and May 1. The May movement continued until the 4th, 

 broken on the 3d by rain. 



only equalled once in the previous thirty years. There was only one 

 well-marked wave during the month, on the 15th, following the high 

 temperature which culminated on the 14th. 



In April the coincidence of migration waves and increases in temper- 

 ature will be noticed on April 9, 19, 25 and 30, with the great May 

 movements on May 5 and 8. 




142 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



1904- 



Mar. I 



Kam — — 



The early warm wave in 1904 occurred February 22-24, but brought 

 only the first arrival of Robins, with no evidence of migration in other 

 species. The rain which prevailed at the time no doubt checked any 

 general movement. The weather during March was normal and the 

 rises in temperature, which culminated on March 3, 7, 13, 20 and 26, 



1905 



FcLfS 



mar, ' 



Mar. IS- 



In 1905 there was no February migration. The rise in temperature 

 on March 8 brought the first migratory movement which was checked 

 by rain, but resumed again on March 11. High temperature :\Iarch 

 16-19 brought two migratory movements. Rain in April at the time 

 of sudden rises in temperature seems to have broken up the regularity 

 of the migration or held it in check, and perhaps had something to do 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



143 



/Way/8 



__ Rdtn 



were followed by migrating movements on March 5, 8, 13, 20 and 27. 

 In April the principal movements on the 10th and 25th corresponded 

 to marked increases in temperature, while the great May waves 

 occurred on the 1st and 6th. 



with the proportions of the wave of April 30, which followed the last 

 spell of rainy weather and was the most extensive April movement that 

 our records show\ The ]May waves occurred on the 3d and 7th. 



The correspondence in the migration curves for 1904 and 1905 is 

 remarkable, the movements being about the same in number and 

 extent and nearly the same in time of occurrence. 




144 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



In 1906 the steady rise in temperature February 15 to 21 caused 

 one of the most extensive February migrations of which we have 

 record. In March, on the contrary^, there was no movement of conse- 

 quence, notwithstanding two considerable temperature increases 

 culminating on the 4th and 26th. 



The explanation of this is to be found in the fact that birds that 

 usually form the early March waves had already advanced with the 



\So7 



Feb. 15 



3P' 

 20' 



^^^^^^ 



r^fm^Mii-y 



:^ffl 



ftcun 



In 1907 there was no February migration whatever. March was 

 rather warmer than usual, and the fivewell-marked waves correspond 

 with unusual exactness to temperature increases. The phenomenal 

 cold of early April brought migration to a standstill, followed bv marked 

 waves on April 21, April 26 and May 1, following increases in tempera- 

 ture culminating on April 26 and 30. The continued cold weather of 

 May delayed the great migratory movements of that month until 

 May 11-12 when the birds went through in a great throng, irrespective 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



145 



I906 



great February movement, and there were no species ready to respond 

 to the favorable conditions in March. 



High temperature on April 5 was accompanied by rain and migra- 

 tion was not apparent until April 6 to 8 when there was an extensive 

 movement. Another occurred on the 1.3th, while the high tempera- 

 ture of April 21 was followed by a wave on the 22d, which was resumed 

 on April 25 after a cold rain. The greatest movements were April 

 29-May 1 , May 3 and May 5. 



1907 



Apr. I Api^-'^ Mof/I. MatftSf 



of falling temperature with frost on the morning of May 12. The last 

 May wave did not occur until the 19th. 



In this season we have an example of the difficulty of characterizing 

 an entire migration as early or late. The beginning of the movement 

 was late, while most of the jMarch dates of arrival were remarkably early; 

 early April migrants were late, but the great movements at the close 

 of the month brought conditions nearly to the normal, while the May 

 migrants were phenomenally late. 

 10 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Waves and Their Components. 



Accepting the fact that the migratory movement advances by 

 ."waves" or "rushes," — that is to say that the bulk of the migration 

 at each locality occurs on certain nights or series of nights, — ^the 

 question naturally arises: To what extent are the several ''waves" in 

 successive years composed of the same species? 



A study of the migration curves will show that there are from eleven 

 to fourteen prominent waves during the Spring, taking into considera- 

 tion only those which show ten or more arrivals* in Februar}^ and 

 March, fifteen to twent}'- in April, and thirty to one hundred in May. 

 These seem to me to be the only movements worthy to be styled waves, 

 although some have used the term to indicate far less marked move- 

 ments, while others use it only for the most extensive migrator}^ flights.-'^ 



Selecting forty-seven common species for which we have the fullest 

 data, and noting such migrator}^ activity'' as is indicated by each on 

 .the wave-days for the years 1904 to 1907, we find a remarkable corre- 

 spondence in the species which make up each wave. And the same 

 ''wave" may be recognized through a number of years by its com- 

 ponent species, though its date may vary considerably. Sometimes a 

 movement may be interrupted by unsuitable weather and be resumed 

 again later, making two apparent waves in one year which correspond 

 to one in other years. Or when conditions are exceptionally favorable 

 early in the season, the species which usually compose Wave II, for 

 instance, may push forward and form part of Wave I; and although 

 conditions at the normal time of occurrence of Wave II may be favor- 

 able there will be no movement, simply because all the species usually 

 migrating at that time have passed on. 



It seems then that certain species migrate together, advance strag- 

 glers of some accompanying the bulk movements of others, and that 

 each species is ready for migration at approximately the same time each 

 year., the exact date depending upon a favorable combination of 

 meteorological conditions. 



The following tables will show which of the forty-seven selected 

 species composed the various waves for the four years for which Ave 



'''Arrival" here has the same significance as explained on page 193. 



^ Cf. Twenty-five Years of Bird Migration at Ann Arbor, Micliigan, by N. A. 

 Wood, Eighth Anmial Report Mich. Acad. Sci. 



" Usually only the "first arrival" -nithin the Pliiladelphia circle and the one 

 or more marked bulk movements are considered, but sometimes when the first 

 arrival was a very early straggler the second arrival is also noted. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



have the fullest data. Many other less common species arrived on the 

 various " wave-days," but their inclusion in the tables would only 

 tend to confusion and would obscure the point that I wish to demon- 

 strate. Where a species has been omitted in any year it is because 

 it failed to arrive on one of the wave movements, or because the bulk 

 movement was scattered and not concentrated on a "wave-day." The 

 scarcity of such omissions, however, illustrates to what an extent the 

 migration is concentrated on a comparatively small number of daj^s. 



"First arrival" in these tables denotes the first individual to be 

 reported anywhere within the ten-mile circle. 




148 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



pq 



§ S 





& 



3 o 



O r^ 



^ o -< ^ 





o 

 ci 



O 

 ^ d 







ID 



o 



;-. 



o 



— ■ CD 



c -— :: o 

 p:3 pi.P^ 





pq 



-^ 



^-H 



'S^ 

 ^ 



o 

 5 



3 c 





o 

 ^ I 



It 6 








1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



149 





f-. • o 



^ a 



.5 S <y ^ 





c <^ :2 o^ ci 



P i3 



02 fcC 



Ph>0 



03 

 02 



>< 

 O 



fa 



. O 



o !^ a 



g pq 



-73 







fi G 53 fi 





02 W) 



^ ^ S ^ 5 ^' g i I a g 



fe^C-P;=lcuSg 8 w .B' 





\rj\ ^ ^ 



2 ^ 

 8 «^3 





« 



T3 

 Of 



bJO 

 S 



>0 CIhPh 







8 ^.Q' 

 fa>o 



cq 



fcn 




150 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



2> 



CO .3 

 o 



2 ^ 



o "^ 



C5 -^ 



(50 



ill ^ 



_, r3 W 03 .-H •(-; 







C 



I o 



?50 



W^ p:5 



. >~i CO HH ^ 



WP^§ 









fi a ^ 



.I--5 2 



e3 



O O 



o:p:== ^ _5? 



w ^ !-. C3 O O 



P50 WO>H>H 





. e<i CO I—I -H 



o 3 ,« 



I 



S3 



m 



r! ;;5 O _&. 





r-^ s~. O ? =3 tj ^ 



S S I 03 >: ^ X 

 pqopqpq S 



>H ,^ h^ o 



tS 03 



2^ 





fc. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



Wave VIII. 



1904. 1905. 1906. 1907. 



April 23-26. April 22-25. April 21-25. April 26-28. 



First Arrivals — Nine species have arrived on this wave in at least 

 three of the four years, i.e., Scarlet Tanager, Yellow Warbler, 

 Black-throated Green Warbler, Ovenbird, Water Thrush, House 

 Wren, Catbird, Wilson's Thrush and Wood Thrush. Five othei-s 

 arrived in two out of the four seasons, i.e., Rose-breasted Giosbeak, 

 White-eyed Vireo, Redstart, Maryland Yellow-throat and Yellow- 

 breasted Chat. 



Bulk Movement — The bulk of this wave comprised the same seven 

 species in each of the four years, i.e., Chimney Swift, Barn Swallow, 

 Black-and-Wliite Warbler, Myrtle W^arbler, Maryland Yellow- 

 throat, Brown Thrasher and House Wren. To these are to be added 

 the Yellow Warbler in 1904 and the Ovenbird in 1907. 



Wave IX. 



1904. 1905. 1906. 1907. 



April 29-Mayl April 29-30. April 29-May 1. May 1-3. 



+ May3. 



First Arrivals — Six species arrived on this wave each year, i.e., Balti- 

 more Oriole, Kingbird, Red-eyed Vireo, Blue- winged Warbler, 

 Magnolia Warbler, Parula Warbler, and in three of the four years 

 Great Crested Flycatcher, Indigo-bird, Yellow-throated Vireo, Black- 

 throated Blue Warbler. 



Bulk Movement — Seven species were abundant during this wave in 

 each of the four years, i.e.. Black-throated Green Warbler, Redstart, 

 Water Thrush, Ovenbird, Catbird, Wilson's Thrush and Wood 

 Thrush, and in three of the four the Yellow Warbler and Scarlet 

 Tanager. 



Wave X. 



1904. 1905. 1906. 1907. 



May 5-8. May 3 + 7. May 5-6. May 8 + 10-12. 



First Arrivals — Species usually arriving on this wave Chestnut-sided 

 Warbler, Blackburni an Warbler, Canada Warbler, Black-poll Warbler, 

 Wood Pewee, Hummingbird, Yellow-billed Cuckoo. 



Bulk Movement — In all four years Baltimore Oriole, Wood Pewee, 

 Great Crested Flycatcher, Indigo-bird, Rose-breasted Grosbeak, 

 Scarlet Tanager, Red-eyed Vireo, White-eyed Vireo, Yellow-breasted 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Chat, Chestnut-sided Warbler. In three of the four years Blue- 

 winged Warbler, Black-throated GreeA Warbler, Black-throated 

 Blue Warbler, Magnolia Warbler, Black-poll Warbler, Kingbird. 



Wave XI. 



1904. 1905. 1906. 1907. 



Maij 10-11. May 12. May 12-13. May 19. 



Bulk Movement in all four years — Yellow-billed Cuckoo, Hummingbird, 



Wood Pewee, Magnolia Warbler, Blackburnian Warbler, Black-poll 



Warbler and Canada Warbler. 



Six Years Records at Philadelphia. 



The following tables present a summary of the arrival dates of the 

 ninety species which are printed upon the schedules of the Delaware 

 Valley Ornithological Club for the years 1902 to 1907, based upon the 

 records of from twenty-five to thirty-five observers for each year, all 

 located within ten miles of the center of Philadelphia. 



Under "first arrival" is given the average date of the first observa- 

 tion reported by any of the observers, and also the earliest and latest 

 first arrival for the six years under consideration. Under ''bulk 

 arrival" is given the date for each year when the species had been 

 reported at half the stations, computed as explained on page 137, and 

 also the average of these six dates. In some cases the data were too 

 meager to warrant this computation, in which instances the 'dates are 

 omitted and only first arrivals given. In a few species, marked by an 

 asterisk, dates which obviously referred to winter residents have been 

 rejected, while in the case of the Long-billed Marsh Wren, Pine 

 Warbler and perhaps a few others the data are probably not sufficient 

 to give accurate results, the species being rare or local. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



153 





cj ci^ cj c3 cS <^ 1^ ^ o3 













s § 







(M 



t> ^ l> '^ CO Ol OC r-< < 



Ti (M 



s §; 



§ s;s 



I s 



in" >. 



SS 



05 O lO (N : OS 







X CO c; cc :■; c; c-i cj 



>-.>.>. 



!g<<g gS 



!-■ »^ i i-N p' i r- i r^ I^ r*% ^ p^ ^ 



fe <: § < < fe fcH § S < 





C- o Cu C CIh CX O, CL C3 Oc &i A a 





u 'J t-' t.' !-■ >■ u t,' tH >> !>-. t." >^ 



<fa<<<S < < S § § -5^ 









■ ■=: o o 



E-'E-b 5-2 s;oo 



O c ^ z - S: - 



-§ c t: 5 ^ -5 -.' 



Si M 



'.S .«j '?^ 



s-?: % 



.t§ 



5 e 



;fc| 



Ui 



^^^_:^^^ 



•^ = ^ S,"3 O^ S 

 ^ S "^ S^ -O 



t;. 



2; w :: ^ c ?H ^ << h-^ ffl 




154 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



ODtC IC CO O 



tH t- tH >^ >^ 



c3 oj 03 03 =3 



o3 03 



CLi 03 o3 



o3 d, 



c3 c3 03 



§gsss s§ 



C 03 03 03 Ji, 



o3 03 o3 







03 03-3- 03 03 





>.>>>> -J t; t, 



03 c3 o3 a Cm C 



Oh ^ 



lu t: -t- >, >. t. fc. 



03 03 03 o3 o3 o3 o3 



t. Si L. tH ;h 



a 03 o3 o3 CI, 







fcn U fc< >-> >> U U 



o3 o3 03 03 o3 o3 o3 



03 a, c3 



^<'. 



03 a, 



03 03 03 



-r'co '*' 

 i-<' s^ t-<' 



CO IC CO C5 N. rH ^. 



fc, t> !h >i >5 t< t< 



03 o3 03 03 03 o3 o3 



Cl, 03 c3 03 a 









&. o3 o3 o3 cIh 





o3 o3-^ o3 03 03 03 03 o3 



!h tH ^2 fc, Sh iH 



Cl, o3 o3 CL o3 CL 



IM C-1 C-) O IC O (M !M 



o3o3o3CI.rt&<Cl<OH 



CL o3 o3 



iM r-i C^l (M C^ CO (N 



iXiSi b: b 



O CuCLiS-S-S 03 



CL, ^ a; o3 

 -*< "^ r-r. ■ 



u ■^■U ^ U ^s ^s ^ ^^^ 



„„ _ pH'^CI'S&.'2o3Ci^o3o3cii 



iOCO*'-iT-HiO*CCO ^!M*0-. r-d-H O'-iQC'OOiOOC'tH cot^o 

 T-H O i-H c^l ■-< T-i (M C>) M< iM "^ "" ~" ■ 



c3o3(r)03o3o3fljC3o3 



a. rHi-H O'-iQC'OaiooctH co 



iM (>1 CO OM>M>A^ ^ i-H 



J <.g w^ wa wj 



CO 



sJ >i tn' tj t-* !^ C ti' Sh* 53 (J 



CL,o3C^o3CL&QhCIi Clt'^Pn 



^1^ 



s e 2 o- 



=:.i; i: £ -S s 



b^-^f^'S 



PI. 



tils 3 3 



ill 



_! so 



"^ CO 



^-^^ 



CL-'- ;:C 

 X 03 ^ 



So > a 

 ^S6 





^^^ 



s a,o3 



s -r g 3 s i; ?5' 



'-^.i ^ o o o 



e^.s 





S ^.S T^"^ 





; :£ E^ p: ^ g 1 1 '^ 



= c ^ - -f ->: -£ cQ ^ 



^ -J ~-^ <^ ^ <^ 9. 






1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



155 



OCC05C0O ClOTjto rt<tH> CO^ O CO 

 (N (M CO (N ,-H T-4 



^ ^ tj >, i; ^' >> >> tH* >» t-' >^ >>>> b b 





(M T-( t-H CO 



(N 





s s 









c; C! C3 CL 





t^iMOCOl:^ OCOCO 



o3o3clo3q, c3c3o3cl c3Ci.33 c3o3 e3 c3 



Ci< o3 o3 p, 



2 8< 





c3 03 Q, rt Q, 



03 03 03 03 c3 a, o3 



>■. t: >. t*. >> 



SS 



1^ S 



CL 03 Q< 03 CL 





§< 





^ ^ 



S § 



05 l-(OI>! 



tJ b b b ^^ 



Cu ^ c3 ^ CU 





C303C1< c3ji,c3 c3o3 



s :s 





>> >^ fcj tH tH 



ra 03 Qj CL Qj 



o3o3^Cl irfQ^oS w^ 



<| <; -< <i^ <i1 <C<il<l<rj 



^1^ 



tl 





>> tJ t<' 53 t. t, ^h' (H tj' 



^ ftft =3 aftftftft 



f^sl^ 




156 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



>i >5 >> tn' U tn' 



a^^ cu &, a, 





■^1; 



>i >i >, >. tn' U 



a ci cz ci cl cl 



lO (M i-H Oi i-H lO 

 ^ ^ ^ Ih' u u 



TO TO 03 Qj CLi Cu 



Cu rt JS c3 





cOI> 



>) >i ^ iH fcH ^H 



^^ Cloaca, 



>. >. >> c c c 



i-hOOt-iO: OOIGOO 



tn' tn' >J >i >> t; U t-' 



CL Cli Ci C3 03 Q^ Ci 03 





TO C3 03 03 CL CLi 



^ C CO O -f o 

 fH C<1 M CO 



^^^<<- 



: 00<M 



^1 



>^ tH tg tn 



o3 fi^ 03 03 



CO(M 





^ Q^C^ a, C3 ^ & OJ 0) 




PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



COLTON. HOW FULGUR AND SYCOTYPUS EAT OYSTERS, ETC 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



COLTON. HOW FULGUR AND SYCOTYPUS EAT OYSTERS ETC. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



COLTON. HOW FULGUR AND SYCOTYPUS EAT OYSTERS, ETC. 





PROC ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE IV. 



COLTON. HOW FULGUR AND SYCOTYPUS EAT OYSTERS, ETC. 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SCI. PHILA. 190S 



TuLGUR PERVERSA 



Sycotypus canaliculatus 



5and Beach Rocks 



Watefi 4in.Deej= 

 Oysters 



5and 

 Water 3 ft. Deep 



COLTON HOW FULGUR AND SYCOTYPUS EAT OYSTERS, ETC 







PFIOC ACAD. NAT SCI 



TRUE ON RHABDOSTEUS LATIRADIX Cope. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE VII. 



PiJtjCr>-f,dfL 



PILSBRY ON SUCCINEA OVALIS. 





1908.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



May 5. ' 



Arthur Erwin Brown, ScD., Vice-President, in the Chaii-. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



On the nomination of the Council, Profs. Henry F. Osborn, 

 Amos P. Brown, Richard A. F. Penrose, Jr., Frederick Prime and the 

 President of the Academy were appointed on the Hayden ^Memorial 

 Committee. 



The death of Henry B. Aledlicott, a Correspondent, April 6, 1905, 

 was reported. 



Dr. Spencer Trotter made a communication on points in the 

 anatomy of the Apes, special attention being given to divergencies in 

 the musculature. (No abstract.) 



May 19. 



Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Mce-President, in the Chair, 



Thirty persons present. 



John W. Harshberger, Ph.D., made a communication on the geo- 

 graphical study of bud opening in connection with isothennal lines. 

 (No abstract.) 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



REVISION OF NORTH AMERICAN SPIDERS OF THE FAMILY LYCOSIDJE. 



by ralph v, chamberlin. 

 Table of Contents. 



PAGE 



Introduction 158 



Lists of described North .Ajmerican Lycosidae 163 



The Family Lycosidse 165 



Key to Genera 169 



The Genus Pardosa: 



Definition 170 



Key to species 172 



Description of species 174 



The Genus Schizocosa; 



Definition...^ 210 



Key to species 212 



Description of species 212 



Tlie Genus Lycosa : 



Definition 220 



Key to species 223 



Description of species 226 



The Genus Allocosa: 



Definition 284 



Key to s5)ecies 285 



Description of species 285 



The Genus Sosippus : 



Definition 292 



Description of species 293 



The Genus Trabea : 



Definition 295 



Description of species 296 



The Genus Sosilaus : 



Definition 298 



Description of species 298 



The Genus Pirata: 



Definition 299 



Key to species 301 



Description of species 301 



Explanation of Phates '. 316 



Introduction. 

 The Lycosidce form one of the most successful of all families of 

 spiders. Their common names of wolf and running spiders indicate 

 their dominant traits. All live close to the earth, roaming freely and 

 boldly, and with rare exceptions capturing their prey by the chase 

 rather than by means of webs or other strategy. They are among the 

 most familiar and widely distributed of spiders. The Piratas and 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



most of the small and excessively active Pardosas keep close to the 

 water, when alarmed running out freely over the surface, in 

 adaptation to which action their tarsi are specially modified in the 

 arrangement of hairs and bristles. The larger Lycosas may mingle 

 their colors with those of the dried leaves and twigs of the woods, 

 lurk beneath the stones of roadside and field, wander in the open or 

 burrow in the sand of the seashore or the soil of the plain. Every- 

 where they are familiar; not because of large number of species, nor 

 because of their bold open habits, but especially because of the 

 excessive abundance of individuals resulting from successful adapta- 

 tion to conditions widely available. 



All true spiders depend upon living animals, mostly insects, for food. 

 Since they ingest only the body juices of their prey, what seems at 

 first an amazing quantity of insects is required to satisfy their nutritive 

 needs. Most spiders have met this requirement through the develop- 

 ment of instinct and skill, accompanied of course by those structural 

 modifications necessary for their effective exercise, in the construction 

 of webs. The line of divergence of the Lycosidce, however, has been in 

 the direction of capacity for taking prey by the chase. The high arched 

 cephalothorax and the long stout legs plainly bespeak strength and 

 speed. But strength and speed alone would be quite ineffective 

 without the simultaneous development of the sensory system, to enable 

 the spiders to detect and with some certainty to follow their prey. 

 Such development has affected strongly the sight; other senses, except- 

 ing touch, being seemingly but feebly developed. This is manifest in 

 the differentiations in size and arrangement of the eyes. It has been 

 shown that the arrangement of the eyes is such as to make the animal 

 aware of movements within its limit of vision in front, at the sides 

 and through a considerable arc behind, the arc directly forward being 

 covered particularly well. The eyes fall very clearly in three rows. 

 The first row, situated across the lower part of the face, is composed of 

 four small eyes placed in different planes; the second of two eyes, large 

 in size and directed antero-laterally ; the third of two medium-sized 

 eyes situated farther back on the pars cephalica and directed latero- 

 caudally. This arrangement of the eyes is apparently associated 

 with the characteristic elevation of the pars cephalica. The high 

 dorsally narrowed cephalothorax and the placement of the eyes m 

 three distinct rows as described are features by which the Lycosidce 

 are usually to be detected at a glance. Other characters serving with 

 those mentioned to distinguish members of this family are the three 

 claws of the tarsi, the notching of the trochanters at the outer end 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-^lav, 



beneath, and the excavation of the posterior piece of the superior lorum 

 of the abdominal pedicel. 



Most of the wolf spiders build no webs of any kind for ensnaring their 

 prey. A few forms {Sosippus, Hippasa), however, construct sheet 

 webs over stones and low bushes with central, funnel-like retreats, 

 much like those of some Agelenidce. In these web-constructing forms 

 there is a strong development of the superior spinnerets, similar to that 

 in the latter family. 



The females without exception enclose their eggs in cocoons, Avhich 

 they carry about attached to their spinnerets until the young hatch. 

 After hatching the young are carried about on the back of the parent 

 until able to shift for themselves with some degree of safety. In 

 making these cocoons the spiders first spin upon the ground a circu- 

 lar disk, which they enlarge usually until its diameter is about equal to 

 -the length of their bodies. A suitable scaffolding of threads is con- 

 structed preliminary to the spinning of the disk. After the basal disk is 

 completed the spider presses out from the genital ducts upon the 

 center of the disk a drop of viscid fluid, into which the eggs are allowed 

 to fall. She then spins over the eggs a covering sheet, fastening its 

 edges to the basal disk. The cocoon is then cut loose from its attach- 

 ments by means of the chelicerae, the ragged edges are neatly taken 

 up and fastened to the wall of the cocoon, and over the whole fresh 

 threads are spun while the cocoon, held beneath the cephalothorax by 

 means of the third legs, is rotated by chelicerse and palps. The result 

 is a neat egg-sac, lenticular in form and showing a distinct seam {Par- 

 dosa), or spherical in form and either -wath a less distinct seam at equator 

 (Pirata) or without a seam evident (Lycosa). 



As a rule the Lycosids born during any season pass the succeeding 

 winter in the half-grown condition, not reaching maturity until the 

 following summer or late spring. The smaller members of the family 

 live but a single year, and during this time build no retreats for them- 

 selves. The larger Lycosas, however, are known to live for several 

 years. Many of these, build burrows, which they close upon the 

 approach of winter by means of plugs or lids. These burrows may ])e 

 mere shallow, nest-like excavations loosely lined with silk or may be 

 deeper, more skilfully executed tunnels. In some cases a rampart or 

 turret is built up about the opening of the burrow, apparently to 

 prevent the drifting in of debris, etc. This rampart may be composetl 

 of particles of sand or earth, or of pieces of straw, grass or sticks. 

 superposed and bound together by means of silk. The same burrow 

 may be occupied by a spider for several seasons, the occupant remodel- 




1908.] i NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



ling the burrow if injured by accident, or enlarging it if outgrown (see 

 L. fatifera, etc.). 



The number of species and genera of Lycosidce is very much smaller 

 than would at first thought seem probable. These bold wanderei"s, with 

 their strong, long legs, the black spines upon which standing out 

 threateningly during excitement suggest their aggressiveness, spread out 

 persistently in e^•ery direction. Isolation of any part of a species for 

 a long time would be expected to be rare, and the establishment of 

 distinct forms, therefore, so far as dependent upon this factor, in- 

 frequent. There are comparatively few species of wide distribution, 

 rather than a large number of limited range. This wide range of 

 species is accompanied naturally by a great deal of fluctuating vari- 

 ability in many of their features. A result has been a surprisingly 

 large number of synonj^ms, consecjuent wpon examinations of limited 

 number of specimens from widely separated localities. For example, 

 species that range from New England to the West and far South 

 become lighter and lighter in coloration. In several species the 

 brightly colored individuals that prevail in Texas would appeal to 

 one at first as surely specifically distinct from the darker forms of the 

 North. But all gradations are found when sufficient material is studied, 

 especially in that from intermediate regions, while apparently no sig- 

 nificant differences at all appear in less variable structural features. 

 Important variations are discussed in detail in the present work under 

 the respective species. 



In this connection a main source of difficulty has been, indeed, the 

 placing of too great reliance upon purely relative characters that undergo 

 greater variation than has been recognized. Even in the treatment of 

 genera this purely relative nature of the characters commonly used has 

 left much room for diversity in opinion and usage. It is not, therefore, 

 really surprising to find that genera accepted without question by one 

 student are unhesitatingly denied by others. Some genera that have 

 from time to time been proposed are clearly artificial, having, it would 

 seem, been erected with a view to convenience rather than in an effort 

 to express genetic relationship. 



All of the characters that have been conmionly used in separating, 

 e.g., Pardosa and Lycosa, somewhere become uncertain, the result 

 having been many incorrect references of species. And so, also, is it 

 with other genera. My own studies of the Lycosidce long ago convinced 

 me that the clearest and most definite characters for limiting not only 

 the species but the genera of the Lycosidce as well, are those presented 

 in the copulatory organs. In the present contribution much reliance 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Way, 



is placed upon these characters as indices of relationship. They have 

 not previously been used in the definition of genera. It has been 

 necessary to introduce a provisional terminology, perhaps sufficient 

 for present descriptive purposes, for parts of the copulatory organs. 

 Careful comparative studies on the morphology of the palpal organs 

 of male spiders are much needed to give us a consistent general 

 terminology. 



As here considered the portion of the family Lycosidce in the fauna 

 of America north of Mexico includes eight genera: Allocosa, Pardosa, 

 Schizocosa, Lycosa, Trahea,Sosippus, Sosilaus and Pirata. Lycosa is more 

 comprehensive than the other genera and its species fall into a number 

 of natural but mostly intergrading groups. Of these groups one in 

 pari corresponding to Trochosa of some authors is most divergent 

 and compact. (See further under Lycosa.) Altogether, in the neigh- 

 borhood of one hundred and fifty specific names have been erected for 

 the forms under these genera ; but of these not more than half are really 

 "good." The species that I have been able to regard as distinct and 

 recognizable are distributed among the genera as follows: Trahea, 

 Sosippus and Sosilaus, e&ch with one; Allocosa, five; Schizocosa, three; 

 Pirata, nine; Pardosa, seventeen ; Lycosa, thirty. 



Of the material studied mention should be made first of the section of 

 Lycosidce in the rich collection of Aranea. at Cornell University, for the 

 privilege of using which and for other unfailing courtesies I am deeply 

 obliged to Prof. J. H. Comstock. The Cornell collection includes not 

 only species from New York State and other parts of the North, but 

 also a good representation of forms from the South and a number of 

 species from the West. My own collection consists of specimens 

 collected in California, Utah and New York by myself, and of a 

 large number from many different localities obtained through others. 

 Among those to whom it is a pleasure to make acknowledgments for 

 specimens are the following: M. Simon, France (specimens from 

 Florida); Rev. F. O. P. Cambridge, England; Mr. B. H. Guilbeaux, 

 Louisiana; Miss Annie Jones, Georgia; Mr. A. M. Bean, Iowa; Mr. C. 

 O. Crosby, New York; Mr. T. H. Scheffer, Kansas; Mr. G. W. Peckham, 

 Wisconsin ; Dr. O. M. Howard, Utah; Prof. T. H. Montgomery, Texas. 

 For the loan of specimens and collections for study I owe my thanks to 

 Mr. J. H. Emerton, Boston; Mr. Samuel Henshaw, of the Museum of 

 Comparative Zoology, Boston; Prof. C. M. Weed, New Hampshire; 

 Prof. John Barlow, Rhode Island ; ]\Ir. Charles Fuchs, of the California 

 Academy of Sciences; Prof. M. T. Cook, Indiana; and Dr. W. M. 

 Wheeler, of the American Museum of Natural Histoi-v, New York. 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



163 



For the privilege of studjdng the Marx collection in the U. 8. National 

 Museum and various types in his own private collection, I am much 

 indebted to the courtesy of Mr, Nathan Banks. 



List of Described North American I.ycosid.e, 



Genera. 



Allocosa Bks. 



Ardosa C. Koch = Lycosa J^atr. 



Aulonia Emerton {auranliaca) 



Trabea Simon. 

 Geolycosa Mtg. = Lycosa Latr. 

 Leimonia C. Koch = Pardosa 



Koch. 

 Lycosa Latr. 

 Pardosa C. Koch. 



Pi rata Sund. 



Scaptocosa Banks == Geolycosa 



Mtg. 

 ScHizocosA Chamb. 

 SosiLAUS Simon. 

 Sosippus Simon. 

 Trabea Simon. 

 Trochosa C. Koch = Lycosa. 



degesta Chamberlin. 

 evagata, sp. nov. 

 ? exalhida Becker. 

 funerea (Hentz). 



Species of Allocosa. 



nigra (Stone) = rugosa (Keys.). 

 parva (Banks). 

 rugosa (Keyserling). 

 siiblata (Montgomerv) = funerea 

 (Hentz). 



Species of Lycosa. 



albohastata Em. 



antelucana Mtg. = apicala Bks. 



apicata Bks. 



arenicola Sc 



aspersa Hentz. 



avara Keys. 



bahingtonii Bl. = helluo W. 



baltimoriana Keys, (var.) 



beanii Em. 



hrunneiventris Bks.= A'oc/ui Keys. 



carolinensis H. 



cinerea Fab. 



coloradensis Bks. 



crudelis Bks. = helluo W. 



communis Em. = erratica H. 



epigynata Mtg. = gulosa W. 



erratica H. 



exitiosa Bks. = aspersa. 



fatifera H. 



florid.ana Bks. 



floridiana Bks. 



frondicola Em. 



fumosa Em. 



grandis Bks. 



gulosa W. 



helluo W. 



helvipes Keys. = helluo W. 



inhonesta (Keys.) = aspersa H. 



insopita Mtg. = gulosa W. 



immaculata Bks. = aspersa H. 



kochli Keys. 



latifrons (Mtg.) = fatifera H. 



lenta H. 



lepida Keys. = erratica H. 



littoralis H. = cinerea Fab. 



maritima H. = cinerea Fab. 



milherti W. = ? carolinensis W. 



missouriensis Bks. = fatifera H. 



modesta Keys. 



modestaTh. = frondicola Em. 



nidicola Em. = helluo W. 



nidi f ex Mx. = arenicola Sc. 



nigroventris Em. = frondicola Em. 




164 



PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



oblonga Bks, = aspersa H. 



perdita. 



perniunda Chamlx 



pikei Mx. = arenicola Sc. 



piulens ^Ix. = frondicola Em. 



pictilis Em. 



pilosa Gir. = carolinensis W. 



philadelphiana W., invalid. 



polita Em. = rubicunda Keys. 



pratensis Em. 



pidchra (Keys.). = gtdosa W. 



purcelli ^Itg. = gulosa W. 



propinqua Bl. = erratica H. 



puuctulata H. 



quiuaria Em. 



riparia Hentz. 



rubicunda Keys. 



rufiventris Bks. = avara Keys. 



ruricola H. = lenta H. 



sepidchralis Mtg. = modest a Keys. 



sagittata H. = erratica H. 



scalar is Th. = erratica H. 



scutulata Htz. 



sa?/i W. = ? /leZ/wo W. 



si?nilis Bks = /leZ/wo W. 



texana Mtg. = carolinensis W. 



(var.) 

 tigrina McC. = aspersa H. 

 m/raC. K. = ?/ieZZwo Walck. 

 vidpina Em. = aspersa H. 



Walckenaek's Names of Species of Lycosa of the Abbott and 

 Bosc Manuscripts. 



ammosa. 



avida. 



discolor. 



encarpata. 



grossipes. 



georgiana. 



qeorgicola. 



(Described in Ins. Apt., Vol. 1.) 



impavida. 



infesta. 



mordax. 



suspecta. 



triton. 



vehemeris. 



These names are all invalid, the descriptions havinc 

 the unpublished drawings of Abbott and Bosc. 



been based on 



Species of Pardosa. 



albomacidata Em. = grcenlandica 



Th. 

 anmdata Bks. = saxatilis Bl, 

 atra Bks. 

 banksi Chamb. 



brumiea Em. = var. of modica Bl. 

 californica Keys. 

 canadensis Bl. = milvina H. 

 coloradensis Bks. = sterncdis Th. 



(Jrs.). 

 distincta Bl. 



dorsalis Bks. ^77iackenziana Keys. 

 dro?7ioeaTh. = grcenlandica Th. 

 emertoni Chamb. 

 flaripcs Keys. = 7nilvina Htz. 



florida7ia Bks. = banksi Chamb., 



^ar. 

 fuscula Th. = modica Bl. 

 furcifera Th, = modica Bl. 

 glacialis Th. = modica Bl. 

 groenlandica Th. 

 impavidaTh. = xerampelina Keys. 

 indigatrix Th. = grcenlandica Th. 

 intrepida Marx = groeidandica Th, 

 iracimda Th. = grcenlandica Th. 

 labradorensis Th. 

 lapidicina Em. 

 longispinata Tullg. 

 luteola Em. = distincta Bl. 

 littoralis Bks. = banksii Chamb. 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



165 



mackenziana Keys. 



mercurialis Mtg. = lapidicina Em. 



iiiilvinaHtz. 



minima Keys. = saxatilis H. 

 modica Bl. 

 m(psta Bks. 



montana Em. = xeram'peUna Keys. 

 nigropalpis Em. = niilvina H. 

 'pallida Em. = emertoni Chamb. 

 parvida Bks. = saxatilis H. (var.) 

 pauxilla Mtg. 



saxatilis Htz. 



scita Mtg. = milvina. 



sinistra Th. = groenkmdica Th. 



steriialis Th. 



tachypoda Th. = xerampelina 



Keys. 

 texana Bks, = lapidicina Em. 

 ^m/is Th. = grce7ilandica Th. 

 uncata Th. = mackenziana Keys. 

 venusta Bks. = lapidicina (Jrs.). 

 xerampelina Keys. 



Species of Pirata. 



«(7«7rs Bks. = montanus Em. 



aspiraiis Chamb. 



bilobata (Tidlg.). 



•elegans Stone = montanus Em. 



-exigua Bks. = minuta. 



febriculosa Becker. 



humicolus Montg. 



insularis Em. 



^i6er Montg. = insidaris Em, 



marxi Stone. 



minuta Em. 



montana Em. 



montanoides Bks. = insularis Em. 



nigromaculatus Montg. = mon- 

 tanus Em. 



prodi^iosa Keys. 



piratica (CI.) var. 



sedentarius Mtg. 

 Beck. 



ivacondana Schef. 

 (Beck.) 



utahensis, new, 

 = febriculosa 



= febriculosa 



Species of Schizocosa, 



bilineta (Emerton). 

 ■charonoides Mtg. = saltatrix H. 

 gracilis (Banks) = saltatrix H. 

 humilis (Banks) = saltatrix H. 

 ocreata (Hentz). 

 ■ocreata pulchra (Montg.) = bi- 

 lineata. 



relucens (Montg.) = venustida 



(Hentz). 

 rufa Keys. = ocreata Hentz ( 9 ). 

 saltatrix 



stonei jMontg. = ocreata Hentz. 

 vemistula (Hentz) = saltatrix H. 

 verisimilis (Montg.) = saltatrix H. 



spinig-er Smion. 



iloridanus Simon. 



aurantiaca (Emerton). 



Species of Sosilaus. 



Species of Sosippus. 



Species of Trabea. 



The Family Lycosid.e. 



Cephalothorax elongated, much longer than wide, attenuated anter- 

 iorly. The pars thoracica high and subprismatic, narrow above and oval 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



in outline, with the posterior border truncate and concave at the 

 middle; a distinct fine median sulcus which is rather long always 

 present, as are also more or less distinctly impressed radiating striae. 

 Pars cephalica elevated and arched, distinctly separated from the par's 

 thoracica by cervical furrows which unite at an angle at the median 

 dorsal line, these more rarely indistinct above; pars cephalica with 

 front truncated or more or less obtusely rounded. The face high, 

 trapeziform or, less commonly, with the sides subparallel; in profile 

 vertical, or at least very steep. 



Eyes all of the diurnal type; always distinctly arranged in three 

 rows, of which the first is composed of four eyes and is located upon the 

 lower part of the face, the second composed of two eyes at the upper 

 part of the face or semidorsal in position, and the third, also com- 

 posed of two eyes, in a strictly dorsal position; eyes of the first row 

 small and comparatively close together, in a straight, procurved or 

 rarely recurved row, the lateral eyes on more or less evident tubercles 

 and with their visual axes directed antero-ventrally ; eyes of second 

 row very large, occupying a transverse space, in most cases wider than 

 that of the first row, less commonly of the same length or shorter, their 

 visual axes directed antero-laterally ; eyes of third row large, almost 

 always more widely separated than those of the second row, with which 

 they thus outline a trapeziform area (quadrangle of posterior eyes), 

 their visual axes directed more or less caudo-laterally. Clypeus com- 

 paratively narrow, always narrower than the width of the area out- 

 lined by the first and second rows of eyes (quadrangle of anterior eyes). 



Chelicerce long and robust, always vertical in position in both sexes ; 

 at base a well-marked and rather large lateral condyle; both upper and 

 lower margins of furrow armed, the upper with two or, more commonly, 

 with three teeth, of which the median is much the largest, and the 

 lower margin with from two to four stout conical teeth; posterior 

 face always marked with a distinct oblique stria, along the inner side of 

 which, especially in the middle region, is a well-developed, often 

 dense, pilose band ; upper margin of furrow bordered with a subdense 

 pilose band or fringe. 



Labium free; the ventral surface flat or, much more commonly, 

 convex; more or less attenuated anteriorly, with front margin truncate 

 or obtuse; from longer than wide to wider than long; much shorter 

 than the endites. Endites longer than wide, more or less excavated 

 within and fitting over the sides of the labium, externally roimded and 

 never much narrowed at base; erect, never obliquely inclined; dorsal 

 surface flat or a little concave; distally the supra-external border with 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



a fine serrulate line or serrula ; siipero-internal border with a dense pilose 

 band or scopula. 



Sternum longer than wide; large, subcordiform, being truncated in 

 front, rounded at the sides and attenuate to a point caudally. 



Legs long or moderately long, the fourth longest, then the first, the 

 third shortest in the great majority of cases ; but there are exceptions in 

 which the third legs are longer than the second, and others in which the 

 second are longer than the first. The femora, tibiae and metatarsi and 

 usually also some or all of the patellae armed Avith spines ; the anterior 

 tibise with three pairs of spines beneath, less commonly with two 

 (Pirata), and sometimes with as many as five (SosUaus); these and 

 other spines of the anterior legs often much reduced and sometimes 

 absent. 



In some small species the tarsi are beneath, all simply and rather 

 sparsely setose, but in most they are at least in part more or less 

 provided with scopula composed uniformly of fine, flat lanceolate 

 and slenderh^ pointed hairs, never of distally enlarged hairs; in the 

 smaller species these scopulsB may be present only along the sides of the 

 ventral faces of the anterior tarsi ; but in the larger species {Sosippus 

 and most Lycosas) the entire ventral surface of the anterior tarsi is 

 densely scopulate, and the metatarsi are usually similarly or less 

 densely scopulate, and the tibiae are also sometimes scopulate distally; 

 in these larger forms the posterior tarsi are scopulate, but have their 

 scopulae divided by a median line or band of setae; never with dense 

 fasciculae at base of claws. Tarsi bearing three claws, of which the 

 superior are strong and broad basally, and bear a series of teeth from 

 five to seven, rarely more, in mmiber, these being mostly confined to 

 the basal half of the claws; the unpaired claw small, bent abruptly 

 downward, almost always naked, rarely with a single tooth. Trochan- 

 ters invariably notched or excavated at distal end beneath. 



Superior lorum of the pedicel of the abdomen composed of two prin- 

 cipal, very unequal pieces, of which the smaller posterior one is trun- 

 cated or somewhat concave behind, and in front is notched or exca- 

 vated for the reception of the angularly or roundly attenuated posterior 

 part of the longer anterior piece; at each side of the principal plates is 

 a slender, anteriorly attenuated piece. 



Spinnerets six in number; the anterior ones short and relatively 

 stout, contiguous or subcontiguous ; the posterior more or less sepa- 

 rated from each other, mostly more slender than the anterior and either 

 of the same length or longer, composed of two articles, of which the 

 second is short and rounded and usually subject to retraction within 




IBs PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^I^y, 



the fii-st. or less commonly longer and conical (Sosippus) ; median pair 

 slender, of moderate length. 



Body clothed with simple hair, or more rarely with some of plumose 

 ty]3e intermixed (Sossipus and some Pardosas). 



Genital plate or epigynum of the female mostly simple ; either a simple 

 iinfurrowed plate or a plate depressed or furrowed longitudinally and 

 with the depressed area divided by a ridge-like elevation (guide), which 

 in the large majority of cases extends laterally on each side at its 

 posterior end. The transverse portion of the guide often (Lycosa 

 sens, str.) distinctly more elevate than the septal portion immedi- 

 atel}' in front of it and extending on each side to behind the openings of 

 the spermathecse ; median piece of guide posteriorly and the transverse 

 pieces on anterior side with the upper free edges mostly more or less 

 •extended horizontally in plate-like expansions, which are usually 

 narrow but may be wide (lateral plates or alee of guide). 



Palpus of the male long, differing uniformly from that of the most 

 nearlj' related families {e.g., Pisauridce and Agelenidos) in never having 

 femur, patella, or tibia armed with any manner of process or apophysis. 

 Tarsus or cymbium comparatively simple, boat-shaped; completely 

 covering the bulb, the alveolus occup5dng usually not more than two- 

 thirds of the ventral area; terminal part of the tarsus acuminate and 

 bearing one, two, or rarely three mostly stout, always untoothed 

 spines (transformed claws), occasionally imarmed. Bulb compara- 

 tivel}- simple and compact; embolus only rarely exerted, in most 

 h'ing upon a special fold (lectus) at front of the larger basal lobe or 

 division, this fold in many with a lobe {auricida) extending forward in 

 front of its exterior end ; lobe of the conductor bearing one to several 

 chitinous processes (tenacula); either an erect and conspicuous apo- 

 physis (Pirata) or transverse, and appressed ; basal division of bulb bear- 

 ing strongly chitinized fokl or apophysis (scopus) in a median (Pardosa) 

 or exterior position (Lycosa), or with such fold or apophysis absent or 

 but weakly developed (Pirata), its absence or weak development being 

 correlated with the absence of furrow and guide in the epigj'-num of 

 the female; a chitinous plate or area (lunate area) at base of bulb 

 practically alwa3's exposed, the area being of varying size in the differ- 

 ent genera, but of quite constant relative extent and position in each. 



The most simple and generalized condition is shown in Pirata. 



Svn. — 1817. Citigradce Latr. (ad. max. part.), in Cuvier, Regne Animal, 



' 3, p. 95. 

 1823. Cursores Sund. (ad. max. part.). Gen. Aran. Suec, p. 20. 

 182,5. Citigradw Latr. (ad. max. part.), Fam. Nat. de Regne Animal, p. 316. 

 1833. Lyrosirfes Sund. (ad. max. part.), Comp. Arachn., p. 25. 




onn. 



1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



1850. Lijcosides C. Koch (ad. max. part.), Ubersicht d. Araclm. Syst. ^ 



1852 Venatores Dolesch. (ad. max. part.), Syst. Verz. Oesten. Sp., p. ^. 



1869. Lycosoidce Thorell (ad. max. part.), On European Spiders p. ISS. 



1876. Lycosidoe Simon (excl. Dolomedes and Ocyale), Arachn. France, .3, p. 

 223 



. ' Lycosoidce Keyserling (excl. Dolomedes and Ocyale), Verb. z. b. Ges. 



Wien, p. 610. 



1877. Lycosoid^ Thorell, Bull. U.S. G.S.Terr., 3, p. 504. 

 1885. Lycosidoe Em. (excl. Dolomedes, Oxyopes and Ocyale), Trans. L 



Acad.Sci., 6,p. 481. ■ , ^ , x t^ t- o at ^.r i.-, 



1890. Lycosidoe Marx (excl. Dolomedes and Ocyale), Proc. L. S. i\. M., l^, 



p 560 

 1892. Lycosida Banks (excl. Pisauridoe), Can. Entomologist, xxiv, p. 97. 

 1898. Lycosida; Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign, 2, p. 317. 

 1903. Lycosidre Comstock, Classif. of N. A. Spiders. 

 1905. Lycosida Banks, American Nat., p. 300, 318. 



Key to North America Genera of Lycosid.e. 



1. Anterior tibia? armed beneath with five pairs of very long spines; 

 anterior eyes subcontiguous, in a recurved row clearly longer 



than the second, .• Sosilavs. 



Anterior tibis armed beneath with less than five pairs of spmes ; 



anterior row of eyes straight or procurved, 2 



2 I^ower margin of furrow of chelicera armed with four stout conical 



teeth, • • • SosiPPL-s. 



Lower margin of furrow of chelicera armed with two or three 



teeth, never with four, ' ' '^' 



3. Anterior row of eyes very strongly procurved, the median eyes 



much farther from the lateral than from each other, Trabea. 



Anterior row of eves not strongly procurved, the median eyes 



little or mostly 'not at all farther from the lateral than irom 



each other, Z ' / /• • 



4 Cephalothorax glabrous or very nearly so, smooth and shming, 



dark in color and without definite light markings, Allocosa. 



Cephalothorax not glabrous, when but sparsely pubescent having 



a distinct light colored median stripe, ....... 5. 



5 Distal pair of ventral spines of anterior tibia? never apical in posi- 



tion- cephalothorax with a median pale band enclosing in its 

 anterior portion a dark V-shaped mark. (Epigynal plate unfur- 

 rowed, i.e., without a guide; true scopus absent or but faintly 



indieatfed in male palpus), • • PiRATA. 



Distal pair of ventral spines of anterior tibise apical m position; 

 median pale band of cephalothorax when present not enclosing 

 anteriorly a dark V-shaped mark. (Epigynum with a distinct 

 guide; scopus well developed), ^• 



6 Scopus median in position and more or less erect; guide of epigy- 



num weakly or not at all developed anteriorly, the spermatheca 

 opening into comparativelv deep, open, basin-hke fovea?, 

 which when continued forward as furrows are distinctly less 

 depressed anteriorlv ; labium wider than long with basal exca- 

 vations short, . : • Pardosa 



Scopus exterior in position; guide of epigynum well developed 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



anteriorly ; labium longer than wide with the basal excavations 



long 7^ 



7. Transverse arms of guide divided from the distal end more or less 

 mesally; auricula of lectus very long, reaching or nearly reach- 

 ing the anterior margin of alveolus; the embolus distinctly 

 elbowed at base of auricula ; conductor conspicuously elevate 

 and usually more or less produced into a horn-like process 

 extending beyond front margin of alveolus, . Schizocosa. 

 Transverse arms of guide not divided from apex mesally ; auricula 

 of moderate size or small, not attaining front of alveolus; 

 embolus evenly curving, not elbowed at base of auricula; 

 conductor not conspicuously elevate or produced above into 

 a horn-like process extending beyond front margin of alveolus, 



IjYCOSA. 

 FABDOSA C. Koch, 1848. 



(Subgenus sub LYCOSA. Die Arachn., Vol. 14, p. 100.) 



Entire body densely clothed with pubescence. Anterior tibise 

 armed beneath with three pairs of spines, of which the basal and 

 median pairs are very long, much longer than the diameter of the 

 joint, the third pair apical in position and reduced in size. Anterior 

 row of eyes always shorter than the second and procurved ; eijes small 

 and subequal or with the median a little larger; median eyes nearly 

 always a little farther from each other than from the lateral ; clypeus 

 high, twice as wide as the diameter of an anterior lateral eye; eyes 

 of the second row large and divergent, situated at the outer angles of 

 the face above, their diameter or more apart; quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes trapeziform, wider behind than in front. Labium at least as 

 wide as long, usually wider; basal excavation short, only very rarely 

 more than one-fourth of the total length of labium. Spinnerets short, 

 the posterior pair a little longer than the anterior, the apical segment 

 being short and rounded. Epigynum with a distinct guide which is 

 but weakly or not at all developed anteriorly; the openings of the 

 spermatheca protected; the spermathecum on each side opening into 

 a relatively large and deep fovea or pit, the furrows becoming nar- 

 rower and shallower anteriorly. Posterior lobe of mah palpus bearing 

 a Scopus in a median position; scopus more or less erect, free except 

 at base where it has a spur or process on the exterior side; scopal fold 

 low; when a true lectal fold is indicated never showing an auricle or 

 f orwardly directed lobe ; lower furrow of conductor relatively extensive, 

 bearing at its inferior margin a variously formed and often lobed or 

 dentate tenaculum. 



Syn. — 1804. Lycosa Latceille (ad. part.), Nuov. Diet. Hist. Nat., 24, p. 135 

 1832. Lycosa Heutz (ad. part ), Sill. J. Sci. Arts, 21, p. 106. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



1842. Lycosa Hentz (ad. part.), J. Bost. Soc. N. H., 4, p. 22S. 

 1848. Lycosa subg. Leimonia C. Koch, Die Arach., 14, p. 99. 

 . Lycosa subg. Pardosa (noni. preocc), ibid., p. 100. 



1875. Lycosa Hentz. (ad. part.), Sp. U. S., pp. 11 and 24. 



1876. Pardosa Simon, Arachn. Fr., Vol. 3. 



1876. Lycosa Keyserling (ad. part.), Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien., p. 610. 



1877. Lycosa Thorell, Bull. U. S. G. S. Ten-., 3, p. 504 et seq. 

 1885. Pardosa Emerton, Tr. Conn. Ac. Sci., 6, p. 494. 

 1898. Pardosa Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., 2. 



1902. Pardosa Montgonierj' (ad. part, max.), Proc. Ac. Sci., Phila., p. 536, 



1903. Pardosa Comstock, Classif. of N. A. Spiders. 



1904. Pardosa Chamberlin, Can. Ent., xxxvi, p. 176. 



Pars cephalica moderately narrow, the sides steep, gently declined 

 anteriorly; face elevated, its sides straight and very steep, subvertical. 

 Quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth or more the length of the 

 cephalothorax. Seen from above the posterior eyes are at most but 

 very little more than their diameter removed from the margins of 

 pars cephalica (PI. VIII, fig. 2). Chelicerce in the great majority of 

 cases with but two teeth on the upper margin of the furrow, the lower 

 margin with three, of which the third is usually much reduced (PI. 

 VIII, fig. 1). Legs long and especially the metatarsi and tarsi slender. 

 Anterior tarsi scopulate, laterally the median ventral face occupied 

 by a setose band (PI. VIII, fig. 7), posterior tarsi simply setose; 

 metatarsus of fourth leg relatively long, most commonly longer than 

 the tibia + patella (especially so in d^ ) , more rarely of same length 

 or a little shorter ; tibia + patella of fourth legs always longer than 

 the cephalothorax. The color markings frequently due in large part 

 to the arrangement of the pubescence in spots and streaks without 

 corresponding marks in the tegument, such markings', of course, being 

 evident only in the living or dry specimens. The cephalothorax in 

 this genus has always a more or less evident light median stripe of a 

 characteristic dagger form. In nearly all species, although the mark- 

 ings may be much obscured in some, there is on the dorsum of the 

 abdomen a pale basal mark which runs to a point near the middle, 

 each side of the apex and also usually each side of the middle of which 

 is an angular pale spot, having a dark dot at its center; posteriorly a 

 series of such ocellate spots more or less united at the middle line into 

 chevrons. 



Il^ Spiders of small or less commonly of medium size, all characterized 

 by excessive agility. The males are commonly smaller than the 

 females; but do not differ much in coloration. As in Lycosa and other^, 

 genera, however, the anterior legs of the male are often distinguished 

 by some peculiar development of color structure. 



Pardps^s build jio .retreat, wandering about during the cocooning 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



season as well as at other times. The cocoon is more or less lenticular 

 inform, and shows a distinct seam about the equator, along which the 

 break is made when the spiderlings issue to mount the parent. The 

 cocoon is typically greenish-yellow or greenish-black, but only very 

 rarely white. The individuals of this genus rarely live more than one 

 year. 



Key to Species of Pardosa. 

 Females, 



1. Epigynal plate or area widest at anterior end, distinctly narrowing^ 



posteriorly; guide wider anteriorly than toward apex (PI. XIV, 



fig. 3), xerampelina (Keys.). 



Not as above, 2. 



2. Epigynum presenting each side of the guide posteriorly a sharply 



delimited, relatively small fovea as long as wide, the anterior 



region of epigynum scarcely depressed, 3. 



Not as above, 4. 



3. Posterior fovese angular in outline; posterior ends of lateral ridges 



separated by a distance much greater than their width; guide 

 behind with transverse arms (PI. XIII, fig. 5), . sternalis Th. 

 Posterior fovese smoothly rounded in outline; posterior ends of 

 lateral ridges not farther apart than their diameter ; guide with out 

 transverse arms (PI. XIII, fig. 8), atra Bks. 



4. Lateral furrows with the shallow anterior fossae short and narrow, 



behind these deepening and abruptly widely expanding, becoming 

 widest near middle of epigynum; septum of guide elevate, its 

 more depressed tranverse arms extending into excavations in 



theinnerfaceof the lateral ridges, 5. 



Not as above, 7. 



5. Transverse arms of guide bending backwards, septum of guide 



widest at posterior end, becoming gradually narrower toward 

 the anterior end, its sides substraight or but little curving 



(PI. XIV, fig. 6), groenlandica Th. 



Not so, 6. 



6. Transverse arms of guide bending more or less forward; septum 



abruptly widest immediately behind region of anterior fossae, from 

 there narrowing to end (PI. XV, fig. 3), modica var. brunnea Em. 

 Transverse arms bending more strongly forward ; septum widest 

 behind the middle of its length, typically expanded into a broad 

 plate-like form over the origins of tranverse arms which it usually 

 in large part covers (PI. XV, fig. 1), modica Bl. (type form). 



7. Face of septum of guide abruptly expanded behind into a large 



nearly circular plate, the diameter of which is clearly greater 

 than the length of the part of epigynum in front of it (PI. XIV, 



fig. 1), emerloni Chamb. 



Not so 8. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA, 173 



8. Epigynal area wider than long, 9. 



Not so, 10. 



9. Distinct lateral ridges enclosing posterior portion of guide both at 



sides and also behind except for short median space between 



ends of ridges (PI. XV, fig. 8), distincta Bl. 



No enclosing ridges at sides or behind, guide extending com- 

 pletely over margins of plate of epigynum posteriorly (PL XIV, 

 fig. 5), californica (Keys.). 



10. Over anterior and median portion of epigynum a narrow and very 



shallow fossa passing behind into a large transversely elliptical 

 depression which is completely occupied by the expanded 

 guide, the lateral ends of which lie in excavations in the side 



ridges (PI. XV, fig. 5), mackenziana (Keys.). 



Not so, 11. 



11. Transverse arms of guide narrowest mesally, widening toward 



their outer ends (PI. XIV, fig. 7), . . . . lapidicina Em, 

 Not so, 12. 



12. Lateral plates extending along guide for much of total length of 



epigynum, gradually narrowing in width anteriorly, . . . 13. 

 Not so, the lateral plates mostly confined to transverse arms, 

 abruptly narrowing and extending forward but a short dis- 

 tance on septal piece, 15. 



13. Guide becoming very narrow toward its anterior end; outer 



margin of epigynum presenting a small abrupt shoulder on eacli 

 side just below middle (PI. XIII, fig. 9), . . pauxilla Mtg. 

 Guide of moderate width at its anterior end, being much wider 

 than the fossa at each side; outer margin of epigynum present- 

 ing no shoulder below middle (PI. XIII, fig. 7), banksi Chamb. 



15. Posterior fovea? clearly wider than long; septum of guide very 



narrow over middle region, at front end strongly expanding in 

 fan-like form; front margin of anterior depression straight and 



moderately wide (PI. XIV, fig. 9), moesta Bks. 



Not so, 16. 



16. Sides of epigynum protruding into an angle in front of middle; 



no distinctly defined lateral ridges in middle region of sides, 

 the sides gradually convexly rounding from middle to outer 

 margin (PI. XIII, " fig. 1), \ . . . . . . saxatilis {B..). 



Sides of epigynum not angulate in front of middle ; more or less 

 distinct lateral ridges along middle region (PI. XIII, fig. 3), 



milvina (H.). 



The key to females above does not include P. longispinata (Tullg.) 

 and labradorensis (Th.)^ of which specimens have not been examined 

 by the author. 



Males. 



1. Scopus short and stout, not at all or but slightly longer than 



broad, 2. 



Scopus several times longer than broad, 7. 



12 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



2. Anterior depressed lobe of bulb separated into two furrows by an 



elevated narrow fold extending from above obliquely dow^nward 

 and outward, externally from its lower end being two uncate 

 tenacula and at the corner opposite its upper end a lamellate, 

 inflexed chitinous angle (PI. XI \^, fig. 8), . . lapidicina Em. 

 Not so, 3. 



3. Anterior division of bulb presenting a large, trilobed thickening 



transversely across its upper border from base of embolus out- 

 ward, the ends of lobes recurved over the furrow posteriorly 



from them (PI. XIV, fig. 4), californica (Keys.). 



Not so, 4. 



4. Embolus extending across bulb almost to outer side of alveolus 



(PI. XV, fig. 4, var. brunnea; PI. XV, fig. 2, type form), 



modica (Bl.). 

 Apex of embolus scarcdy extending beyond scopus, 



groenlandica Th. 



7. Scopus extending obliquely forward and outward quite to or some 



distance beyond margin of alveolus, 8. 



Not so, 10. 



8. Scopus curving forward with convexity external and apex directed 



forward, emertoni Chamb. 



Not so, 9. 



9. Embolus strongly bent into an S shape; scopal spur turned forward 



at apex (PI. XIII. fig. 6), sternalis (Th.). 



Embolus but little curved, extending nearly straight transversely; 

 scopal spur turned backward at apex (PI. XIII, fig. 2), 



saxatilis (H.). 



10. Scopus above bent outward and then strongly backward, becom- 



ing nearly parallel with basal part (PI. XV, fis;.9), distincta Bl. 

 Not so, ^ .... 11. 



11. Scopus dentate at apex; the spur nearly straight, subcorneal (PI. 



XV, figs. 6 and 7), mackenziana (Keys.). 



Scopus not dentate at apex, 12. 



12. Spur short and stout, abruptly turned posteriorly at apex into an 



acute hook (PI. XIII, fig. 4), milvina (H.). 



Spur cylindrical, longer, pauxilla Mtg. 



Males of the following species are either unknown or are too 

 imperfectly known to the author to be included in the foregoing key : 

 atra, banksi, lahradorensis, longispinata, moesta, xerampelina. 



Pardosa saxatilis (Hentz), 1844. 



(J. Bost. 8oc. \. Hist., p. 392, PI. XVIII, figs. 9, 10.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax deep brown to black crossed with 

 lighter radiating lines ; a median reddish yellow band which anteriorly 

 sends a short narrow process between eyes of the third row, behind 

 which it abruptly widens, constricted midway between the eyes and 

 the doi'sal groove, behind which it is strongly narrowed, sides of band 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



in region of median groove dentate; on each side a yellow supra- 

 marginal stripe usually divided by two or three dark cross-lines and 

 limited below by a narrow black marginal stripe which is more or less 

 broken into spots ; clypeus yellow, with a triangular black spot below 

 each anterior lateral eye, the apex of the spot being at the eye and the 

 base on the front margin of the clypeus; the light part of cephalo- 

 thorax in life clothed with dense white hair, that of the supramarginal 

 stripes extending also over the black marginal lines, the light side 

 stripes consequently appearing wider in live than in alcoholic speci- 

 mens, Chelicerce yellow, with some dusky markings. Labium and 

 endites and coxce of legs beneath yellow. Sternum black, usually with 

 a narrow median pale line in front; often with a row of black dots 

 along each lateral margin, and a central black stripe narrowed behind 

 and anteriorly geminated by a pale line, elsewhere being yellow. 

 Legs yellow with black annuli on all joints excepting the tarsi, the dark 

 annuli of the femora wide and predominating over the yellow, those 

 of the tibia3 of same width as the yellow bands, while those of the 

 metatarsi are distinctly narrower. Abdomeyi blackish to dark gray 

 above, sometimes of a greenish tinge; a yellow to brown lanceolate 

 stripe at base having at each side of its apex a similarly colored angular 

 spot with minute black dot at its center; on posterior portion of dorsum 

 a series of light cross-marks, each formed by the lateral confluence of 

 from two to four spots similar to those at sides of apex of basal stripe ; 

 dorsum elsewhere with many minute light dots; sides like lateral 

 portions of dorsum but with the light dots larger; venter yellow to 

 light reddish brown, with a row of irregular dark and partly confluent 

 marks along each side and a short median row of similar marks behind 

 the epigynum; in life the abdomen is densely clothed with gray and 

 brown hair. Spinnerets light brown, Epigynum light brown, the 

 posterior fovese appearing as darker blackish spots, 



Cephalothorax relatively higher in front than usual, highest at third 

 eye row, from there slanting downward to the posterior declivity, 

 concave at the dorsal groove, plane of quadrangle of posterior eyes 

 not much declined. Face as high as the length of the chelicerse or 

 slightly higher, protruding above over its lower portion ; sides slightly 

 convex or straight, sub vertical. 



Anterior row of eyes of the usual length and curvature; anterior 

 median eyes three-fourths their diameter apart, half as far from the 

 lateral eyes, their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral 

 eyes three-fourths or more as large as the median, more than twice 

 their diameter from the front margin of clypeus and than their diam- 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



eter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row their diameter or a 

 little more apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes more than one-fourth 

 the length of the cephalothorax. 



Labium wider than long (4.25 : 4) ; basal excavation one-fourth the 

 total length; strongly attenuated anteriorly, the sides for most of 

 length convexly rounded, becoming straight toward anterior angles; 

 front margin slightly convexly rounded. 



Legs with the metatarsus of the fourth pair clearly longer than the 

 tibia -h patella; tibia H- patella of the first pair of the same length as 

 the cephalothorax; first two pairs of spines of the anterior tibiae very 

 long and overlapping as usual; lateral scopulse of anterior tarsi very 

 thin. 



Epigynum without distinctly defined lateral ridges in the median 

 region; sides strongh^ angulate in front of middle; guide usually pointed 

 just in front of posterior foveae, between the anterior portions of 

 which it is not concavely depressed as it is in flavipes, descending from 

 the higher transverse ridge in a more nearly straight line than in the 

 latter species. (PI. XIII, fig. 1.) 



Total length, 5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.4 mm.; width, 

 1.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 7.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.4 mm. ; met., 1.5 mm. 



Length of leg II, 7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 10.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 3.5 mm. 



Male. — Darker than female and the light and dark markings more 

 strongly contrasting; entire eye region black; supramarginal light 

 stripes of cephalothorax often obscure; femora of first legs entirely 

 black, those of second pair pale over most of ventral surface, the black 

 of dorsal surface more or less interrupted with yellow ; posterior femora 

 with dark rings which are more broken or interrupted than in female; 

 distal joints of all legs yellow, without any dark annuli. Palpi entirely 

 black except the patellae and the tips of the tarsi which are yellow or, 

 in life, bright white. 



Tibia of palpus a little longer than the patella, becoming thicker 

 distally, tarsus as long as the two preceding joints together. Scopus 

 resembling that of milvina, but reaching to or beyond the exterior side 

 of the alveolus; lower border of the inferior furrow of anterior lobe 

 developed at the exterior side into a dorsally concave, boat^shaped 

 structure which at the exterior end is keeled and bears below a short 

 rounded flap, the upper margin of the furrow with a strongly chitinized 

 triangular process or tenaculum directed caudally toward the process 

 of the inferior margin as in milvina. (PI. XIII, fig. 2.) 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



Total length, 4.6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.3 mm.; width, 

 1.9 mm. 



Length of leg I, 7.1 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.5 mm. ; met., 1.8 mm. 



Length of leg II, 6.6 mm. 



Length of leg III, 6.5 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 10.3 mnL ; tib. + pat., 3.1 mm. ; met., 3.2 mm. 



Syn. — 1876. Lycosa minima, Keyserling,Verh. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 614. 

 1885. Pardosa albopatella Enierton, Trans. Conn. Oc. Sci., 6, p. 497, PI. 94, 



figs. 2 to 26. 

 1890. Lycosa minima, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 562. 

 . Pardosa albopatella, Marx, ibid., p. 565. 



1890. Pardosa albopatella. Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 42, p. 431 . 



1891. Pardosa minima, Bank.s, Ent. News, 2. 



1892. Pardosa albopatella, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. WT, 2, p. 161. 

 1892. Pardosa albopatella, Banks, Proc. U. S. N. M., 44, p. 70. 



. Pardosa annulata. Banks, ibid., p. 68, PI. 1, fig. 41. 



1895. Pardosa minima. Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 3, p. 91. 



1900. Pardosa minima, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 539. 



1902. Pardosa albopatella, Enierton, Common Sp. of U. S., p. 83, figs. 



205-207. 

 1902. Pardosa minima, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 571, 



PI. 30, figs. 35, 36. 



Type locality. — Alabama. 



Known localities. — Illinois!, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode 

 Island!, New Hampshire!, District of Columbia!, Pennsylvania, 

 New Jersey!, Alabama, Kansas!, Indiana. 



While the males are easily distinguishable, the females of this 

 species and of milvina are much alike both in general appearance and 

 in the structure of the epigyna. Aside from the differences in the 

 epigyna, which are difficult to state, the cephalothorax of saxatilHs is 

 relatively higher in front and slopes more decidedly caudally and the 

 face protrudes above more strongly. There are constant differences 

 in the proportions of the legs. The markings of saxatilis are finer. 



Pardosa milvina ( Kent z), 1844. 



(Sub Lycosa, J. Bost. S. N. H., Vol. IV, p. 392, PI. XVIII, fig. 8.) 



Sides of cephalothorax deep brown to black; eye region deep black, 

 a yellow to brown median band beginning as a rather narrow process 

 at or behind third eye row, expanding a little posteriorly on each side 

 and then again constricted in front of middle, expanding about dorsal 

 groove and then narrowing again down posterior declivity; on each 

 side a submarginal light band which in some is obscure anteriorly, 

 but is usually distinct to clypeus in front; clypevis yellow or brown 

 with a triangular black spot below each anterior lateral eye; sides of 

 cephalothorax with brown pubescence, the light stripes with yellow, 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the clypeus with yellow and some white. Chelicerce yellow to brown 

 each with a short black median mark at base, clothed with whitish 

 pubescence and sparee long brown bristles. Endites, labium and 

 coxce of legs yellow to brown. 



Sternum usually black, often with a lighter median line in front, 

 clothed with yellow or yellowish-white pubescence; sometimes lighter, 

 dark brown or even yellow with or without dark spots. Legs yellow 

 with dark rings on all joints except the tarsi, clothed ^vith whitish 

 and some short darker pubescence. Abdomen above at base with a 

 yellow to reddish-brown stripe ending in front of middle; opposite 

 apex of basal mark an angular pale spot with dark dot in center, 

 and behind a series of transverse rows of similar spots more or 

 less confluent transversely as usual; often a yellow line close to and 

 parallel with the margin of the basal mark on each side; dorsum 

 laterally black with numerous small yellow dots; dorsum clothed 

 with brown and white pubescence, the white in part in angular spots 

 at sides and in transverse lines between the pale marks of tegument; 

 sides yellow with many spots and mottlings of brown or above of black, 

 in life covered with pubescence in intermixed spots and streaks of 

 white and brown; venter pale, rarely dark, densely clothed with light 

 gray pubescence. 



Spinnerets yellow or light brown. 



Epigynum brown, darker, reddish at margins. 



Face relatively high, nearly of same height as length of chelicerae; 

 sides nearly straight, subvertical. Cephalothorax high, the posterior 

 declivity very steep, in profile nearly level from third eye row to 

 posterior declivity, slightly depressed at median furrow, sides steep. 



Anterior row of eyes much shorter than the second, only slightly 

 procurved; anterior median eyes nearly three-fourths their diameter 

 apart, evidently closer to the lateral eyes ; anterior lateral eyes visibly 

 smaller than the median, of usual distance from eyes of second row 

 and from the front margin of clypeus; eyes of second row not quite 

 once and a half their diameter apart. Quadrangle of posterioV eyes 

 more than one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Labium a little wider than long (6.25 : 6) ; basal excavation more than 

 one-fourth the total length of labium; sides substraight, strongly 

 converging anteriorly ; front margin slightly convex. 



Legs slender; metatarsus of fourth pair of same length as tibiie and 

 patella together; spines of anterior tibiae as usual; anterior tarsi with 

 but very sparse scopulae at sides, posterior tarsi setose and spinulose as 

 usual. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Epigynum with more or less evident lateral ridges, margins usually 

 not angulate in front of middle; septal piece of guide not pointed at 

 front of foveae, more depressed between fovese than in saxatilis. See 

 PI. XIII, fig. 3. 



Total length, 6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.4 mm.; Avidth, 

 2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 9 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.3 mm. ; met., 1 .7 mm. 



I>ength of leg II, 6.9 mm. 



Length of leg III, 6.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 10.3 ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 3 mm. 



Male. — Darker in color than female, the cephaloihorax often nearly 

 entirely black, especially anteriorly, with the side stripes obscured 

 and the median light mark not extending forward beyond front end of 

 dorsal furrow. Abdomen often entirely black above, with light mark- 

 ings absent or but faintly indicated. Tarsus of palpus always black, 

 the other joints often so, and always darkened by black pubescence. 



Tibiae of the palpus longer than the patella and distinctly broader, 

 broadest anteriorly. Scopus long, bent outward above but not 

 reaching margin of alveolus; basal spur short, bent down at apex, not 

 covered ; margin of inferior furrow of anterior lobe with a single short 

 and stout tenaculum. (PI. XIII, fig. 4.) 



Total length, 5.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax. 2.8 mm.; width, 

 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg I, 9.9 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.2 mm. ; met., 2.4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 8.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 12.9 mm. ; tib. + pat,, 3.8 mm. ; met., 4.2 mm. 



Syn. — 1.S71. Lycosa canadensis, Blackwall, Ann. Nat. Hist., Vol. VIII, pp. 



4.30, 431. 

 1876. Lycosa flavipes Keyserling, Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 616, PI. 



7, fig. 4. 

 1885. Pardosa nigropalpis Enierton, Trans. Conn. Acad., 6, p. 497, PI. 48, 



fig. 3 to 3b. 

 1890. Pardosa nigropalpis, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12. 

 — — . Pardosa nigropalpis, Stone, Proe. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 42, p. 430. 



1892. Pardosa nigropalpis. Banks, Trans. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 44, p. 70. 



. Pardosa pallida, Banks (ad. part, in Coll. in Univ. Cornell), ibid., p. 68. 



. Pardosa nigropalpis, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., p. 161. 



1893. Pardosa flavipes, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 1, p. 125. 



1894. Pardosa flavipes, Banks, op. cit., 3, p. 91. 



1900. Pardosa milvina, Banks (ad. part, max), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



p. 539. 

 1902. Pardosa nigropalpis, Montgomery, Proc. Acad, Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 



569, PI. 30, figs. 32-34. 



. Pardosa scita Montgomery, ibid., p. 573, PI. 30, figs. 37, 38. 



. Pardosa nigropalpis Emerton Common Sp. of U. S., p. 83, figs. 



205-207. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Type locality — Alabama. 



Known localities. — Maryland!, Illinois!, Massachusetts, Connecti- 

 cut, Rhode Island!, New York!, District of Columbia!, Pennsylvania, 

 Virginia, North Carolina!, Georgia!, Alabama!, Louisiana!, Mississippi!, 

 Kansas!, Indiana!. 



One of the commonest and most widely distributed of North Ameri- 

 can Pardosas. Specimens from the South are lighter than those from 

 the North, the sternum being frequently yellow or white without 

 marks, and at other times being covered in varying degrees with black 

 dots, the dots in some covering entire sternum, except for the anterior 

 median light stripe, and in others found only in a single row along each 

 margin. In the same locality all gradations may be found between 

 dark, typically colored individuals and the pale forms. 

 Pardosa pauxilla Mtg. 



Female. — Sides of cephalothorax blackish brown or deep chocolate 

 color; a rather wide yellow or pale brown band along each lateral 

 margin extending forward to the clypeus which is of the same light 

 color; eye region black; back of eyes a median dagger-shaped light 

 brown stripe of usual character. Chelicene yellow. Labium, endites 

 and coxce of legs beneath yellow or yellowish brown. Sternum yellow- 

 ish brown, blackish toward margins and with scattered black spots 

 over the middle portion. Legs also yellow or yellowish brown with 

 numerous dark annuli which are deep and distinct on the femora and 

 tibiae, but are less strong or sometimes indistinct on the metatarsi; 

 of these annuli there are four on each femur and tibia and three on 

 each metatarsis; each patella has a median annulus with indications 

 in some of darkened ends. Abdomen with dorsum black to deep 

 brown minutely dotted with yellow; at base a yellow lanceolate stripe 

 with an angular spot each side of apex as usual, followed behind by 

 a series of wide chevron-marks of the ordinary character; because of 

 the extent of the yellow markings in some the dorsum appears to be 

 occupied over its middle region from base to spinnerets by a yellowish 

 band which narrows caudally and encloses rather indistinct dark 

 markings; sides of abdomen dark like the lateral portions of dorsum, 

 but the yellow dots larger, becoming more and more extended and 

 confluent ventrally, finally passing into the inmiaculate yellow or 

 yellowish white venter. Spinnerets pale brown. Epigynum reddish 

 brown. 



Anterior row of eyes of the usual relative length and curvature; 

 anterior median eyes fully their diameter apart, much closer to the 

 smaller lateral eyes, their diameter or a little more from the eyes of 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



second row ; anterior lateral eyes twice their diameter or a little more 

 from the front margin of clypeus, their diameter from eyes of second 

 row; eyes of second row one and one-fourth times their diameter 

 apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes longer behind than in front in 

 ratio of 9 : 1, considerably more than one-fourth as long as the 

 cephalothorax (1 :3.5). 



Spines of tibiae of legs and clothing of tarsi as usual. 

 Epigi/num in shape roughly like a very wide-necked decanter, though 

 more angular in outline; posterior foveas not sharply limited, the 

 lateral furrows gradually narrowing cephalad to a mere line at the 

 anterior end, the sides bulging in correspondingly on each side; guide 

 somewhat anchor-shaped with the transverse pieces relatively short 

 and stout, the median piece with lateral plates along entire length, these 

 continuously narrowing cephalad until the septum at its anterior end 

 is very narrow. (PI. XIII, fig. 9 .) 



Total length, 5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.5 mm.; width, 

 1.8 mm. 

 Length of leg I, 7.2 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.6 mm. ; met., 1.5 mm. . 

 Length of leg II, 7 mm. 

 Length of leg III, 6.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 10.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.2 mm. ; met., 3.3 mm. 

 Ma/f?.— Considerably smaller than female. Legs yellow, entirely 

 without rings or markings excepting the femora of the first two pairs 

 which are black on the basal half, the black more or less interrupted 

 by yellow laterally and below. Palpi entirely black, clothed with 

 dense black hair. Median stripe of cephalothorax obscure. Abdomen 

 entirely black without light markings in the tegument, but in life with a 

 row of white spots formed of bunches of hair on each side behind, with 

 narrow transverse lines of white hair extending between the spots; 

 venter yellow with a dark median mark more or less dilated in front 

 of the spinnerets, clothed with white hair. Chelicerce black except 

 along disto-mesal side, clothed with deep brown pubescence except 

 distally where it is gray and longer. 



Bulb of palpal organ very convex, protruding conspicuously from 

 alveolus ; scopus similar in form to that of milvina, but the basal spur 

 cylindrical and relatively longer than in that species ; there are consider- 

 able differences in the conductors of these two species. 



Total length, 4.1 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.1 nun.; width, 

 1.3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 5.2 mm. 

 Length of leg II, 5 mm. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May^. 



Length of leg III, 5 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 7.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.3 mm. ; met., 2.6 mm. 



Locality. — Austin, Texas !. 



Fardosa banksi Chamberlin, 1904. 



(Canadiitn Entomologist, Vol. XXXVI, p. 175.) 



Female. — Eye region and sides of cephalothorax black or brownish 

 black; on each side a distinct supramarginal yellow band which 

 reaches to the clypeus in front; a less clearly marked median dagger- 

 shaped band of brown along dorsum from posterior margin to the 

 third eye row, this band but little wider than the lateral bands except 

 at its expanded anterior end, where, however, its lateral portions are 

 obscure; clypeus yellow, marked below each anterior lateral eye with 

 a triangular black spot, the apex of which is at the eye, and the base 

 upon the front margin of clypeus. Chelicerce smoky yellow, with a 

 dark line running down near the inner side and bending obliquely 

 outward across the front face distally, there becoming indistinct; a 

 black -line along each margin of the lateral condyle. Sternum light 

 brown with a black median lanceolate stripe which is divided anteriorly 

 by a short yellow line. Legs clear yellow or pale brown of a greenish 

 hue, or with faint traces of rings on the posterior ones, otherwise 

 entirely without markings. Abdomen above black with a reddish 

 yellow lanceolate stripe at base, with a similarly colored quadrate spot 

 with black dot at center each side of apex, and a series of transverse 

 yellow marks behind formed of similar spots united in pairs; an indis- 

 tinct light mark joining the basal lanceolate stripe on each side near 

 its base and another one joining it near the middle on each side, these 

 marks formed of rows of small dots ; sides of abdomen black like the 

 dorsum except for a yellow spot or stripe in front below each antero- 

 lateral angle; venter yellow with a brown spot enclosing spinnerets 

 and a median dark line extending from this spot forward to the epigy- 

 num. Anterior spinnerets brown, the posterior ones more yellow. 

 Epigynum light reddish brown. 



Face as high as the length of the chelicerse or very nearly so; sides 

 straight and subvertical. Cephalothorax highest a little behind third 

 eye row, from where in profile the dorsal line is straight to the posterior 

 declivity. 



Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second, of the usual relative 

 length, gently procurved; anterior median eyes fully three-fourths their 

 diameter apart, closer to the lateral eyes, a little more than their 

 diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes about three- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



fourths as large in diameter as the median, twice their diameter from 

 front margin of clypeus, once and a third their diameter from eyes of 

 second row; eyes of second row their diameter apart; quadrangle of 

 posterior eyes a little wider in front than long, fully one-fourth the 

 length of the cephalothorax. 



Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with three teeth, of w-hich the 

 third is but little shorter than the fii^st two ; upper margin with three 

 teeth of the relative proportions more common in the genus Lycosa. 



Tibia + patella of fourth legs of same length as the metatarsus; 

 tibia + patella of the first pair of legs shorter than the cephalothorax; 

 spines of the anterior tibias of usual arrangement and proportions ; all 

 tarsi setose and spinulose, the anterior ones but thinly scopulate 

 laterally. 



Transverse piece of guide of epigynum of moderate length; septal 

 piece evident foi-ward to the anterior end of the epigynum, with well- 

 developed lateral plates along its entire length, these being behind as 

 wide as the transverse piece of guide and gradually and continuously 

 narrowing anteriorly. (PI. XIII, fig. 7.) 



Total length, 5.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.7 mm.; width, 

 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg I, 7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.4 mm. ; met., 1.5 mm. 



Length of leg II, 6.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 6.7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 9.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 3 mm. 



Male.— "The male palpus from the side shows three black, rounded 

 projections, the lower one the smallest." (Banks.) 



Length, 5 mm. 



Syn.— 1896. Pardosa littoralis Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 4, p. 192. (Nom. 

 preocc.) 



Tijpe locality.— J. ong Island, N. Y. (Mill Neck). 



Habitat.— Long Island (Mill Neck!, Sheepshead Bay!), Florida!. 



Found in salt marshes. The type specimens were found in the 

 marshes near Mill Neck in June. The description above is based on 

 two females from Sheepshead Bay, taken in August, 1903, (C. R. 

 Crosby). 



Pardosa moesta Banks, 1892. 



(Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 44, p. 70, PI. 3, fig. 44.) 

 Female.— Cephalothorax dark reddish brown with radiating lines of 

 black, a pale median band which becomes darker and more obscure 

 anteriorly; entire eye region black; in some scarcely paler above lateral 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



margins, in others (southern specimens) with a marginal pale stripe 

 more or less evident on each side. Clypeus reddish yellow, the yellow 

 area higher on each side. Cheliceroe reddish yellow; a blackish line 

 bordering the condyle on each side, the two lines uniting at its lower 

 end and extending down the front of the chelicerae, Endites yellow. 

 Labium dark brown, paler distally. Coxce of legs beneath yellow. 

 Sternum black. Legs reddish yellow; the femora marked with dark 

 rings which are mostly incomplete below, above often more or less 

 diffused, the annuli thus often more or less confluent dorso-laterally, 

 especially on the front femora; patella? and tibiae also marked with 

 incomplete dark rings, the first tibiae darker than others, almost 

 wholly black. Abdomen above black, densely minutely punctate with 

 reddish yellow; dorsum with a faint basal spear-shaped stripe of a 

 dusky reddish yellow color; sides of abdomen like the dorsum, but the 

 light dots larger and more elongate; venter light reddish brown; a 

 narrow, irregular^ edged stripe or line of black on each side, the two 

 converging caudad, and a similar stripe along median line behind the 

 epigynum, this stripe running to a point posteriorly, Epigynum 

 brown of a light reddish tinge. 



Face with its sides straight and nearly vertical, the chelicerae in 

 length about one and one-fourth times longer than its height; face 

 protruding above the eyes of the second row being borne at the ends 

 of a bulging transverse ridge. Cephalothorax highest at the third 

 eye. row, in profile the dorsal line slopes gradually to the posterior 

 declivity, but is gently concave at the dorsal groove. 



First row of eyes much shorter than the second, not fully extending 

 from center to center of eyes of second row, procurved in usual degree ; 

 anterior median eyes fully three-fourths their diameter apart, half as 

 far from the lateral eyes, a little more than their diameter from eyes 

 of second row ; anterior lateral eyes three-fourths or more as large as the 

 median eyes, twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus, one 

 and one-third times their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes 

 of second row their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes as 

 wide in front as long, half as wide again behind as in front or nearly so, 

 the cephalothorax only 3.5 times as long. 



Lower margin of the furrow of the chelicerce with three teeth, of which 

 the first two are stout and subequal but the third much reduced ; the 

 upper margin of the furrow with two teeth of the usual proportions. 



Legs with the metatarsus of the fourth pair longer than the tibia -I- 

 patella; tibia 4- patella of the first pair of the same length as the 

 cephalothorax; spines of anterior tibiae of common form, the two first 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



pairs very long and overlapping ; tarsi with scopulae on sides of anterior 

 ones, the posterior simply setose and spinulose. Labium longer, 

 wider than long, strongly attenuated anteriorly, the front margin 

 subtruncate. 



Epigyman with transverse piece of guide rather wide, the guide plates 

 along its front side with the free margin wavy; the posterior foveas 

 wide and conspicuous ; septal piece of guide low and narrow for most of 

 length, extending to the anterior depression where it expands fan 

 shape. (PI. XIV, fig. 9.) 



Total length, 5.7 mm. Length of the cephalothorax, 3 mm. ; width, 

 2.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 2.2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 13.1 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4 mm. ; met., 4.2 mm. 



Male. — Unknown. 



Type locality. — New York (Ithaca). 



Known localities. — New York (Ithaca!, Lake Keuka!), District of 

 Columbia!. 



Specimens I have seen from Washington, D. C, are paler through- 

 out than indicated in the description above, which is based on indi- 

 viduals from Ithaca and Penn Yan, N. Y., including one of the types. 

 The species is in some respects much like saxatilis. 



Pardosa sternalis (Thorell), 1877. 



(Sub Lycosa, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., 3, p. 504.) 

 Female. — Sides of the cephalothorax and the dorsal eye area black ; 

 a median band of brown color of reddish caste beginning back of eyes 

 and passing posteriorly over dorsal groove and narrowing down the 

 posterior declivity to a line; the median band at its anterior end is 

 nearly always bifurcate, the two slender divergent processes embracing 

 between them a similarly colored spot, with which they are connected 

 each by a narrow line; a light brown band along each lateral border, 

 limited below posteriorly by a black marginal line and geminated for 

 its entire length by a second black line; the lateral bands are continu- 

 ous and attain the clypeus in front which is of the same color; median 

 light stripe with some white pubescence, but with brown hair predomi- 

 nating for most of its length; sides with brown pubescence; marginal 

 light stripes clothed above and below the geminating dark line with 

 white pubescence, the dark lines with sparser brown hair. Chelicera> 

 reddish yellow or light brown, normally with a blackish line along the 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



antero-mesal line of each chelicera, this hne distaUy turning obhqiiely 

 outward and reaching the outer side; clothed mostly with white hair 

 except distally where brown hair and bristles are intermixed. Labium 

 and endites light brown, paler at tips. Coxce of legs beneath light 

 brown. Sternum with ground color brown, mostly with a row of 

 black spots along each lateral margin, and occupied over the middle 

 region by a large black area divided by a median light line; sometimes 

 the black area is much reduced and the yellow or brown color then 

 predominates, but usually the black covers all but a rather narrow 

 stripe toward each side and the mesal light line; subdensely clothed 

 with long white or light gray hairs. Legs light brown, all joints except 

 tarsi marked with black annuli which^are close together on the proximal 

 joints, which in consequence often appear very dark; the metatarsus 

 has three well-separated dark annuli and appears paler Uke the tarsi; 

 black rings of femora more or less broken ventrally. Abdomen above 

 blackish; a very distinct yellow or pale brown lanceolate median 

 stripe at base, mth an obliquely placed yellow angular spot of usual 

 type each side of apex, and behind a series of four or five similar and 

 obliquely placed pairs of spots, the pairs more or less confluent mesally, 

 into anteriorly pointed chevron-shaped cross-bands ; a yellow mark each 

 side of base of the median lanceolate stripe; dorsum for the most part 

 covered with brown pubescence, but each side of lanceolate mark a row 

 of spots formed by bunches of white hair, and behind but more widely 

 separated two similar rows of lateral white spots with sometimes a 

 median row of similarly formed white marks; sides below yellow or 

 pale brown clothed with brown pubescence intermixed in spots and 

 streaks with white, which becomes more abundant below and entirely 

 clothes the venter; tegument of venter yellowish, sometimes with four 

 rows of small brown dots which converge posteriorly. Spinnerets 

 brown. Epigi/num light reddish brown, darker marginally. 



Sides of face steep, but little rounded and slanting outward below; 

 moderate in height, the chelicerse once and a half as long as its height 

 or nearly so. Dorsal line of cephalothorax nearly straight and level to 

 the posterior declivity. 



Anterior row of eyes considerably shorter than the second, reaching 

 but little beyond centers of eyes of the latter, slightly procurved ; anterior 

 median eyes fully their diameter apart, half so far from the but slightly 

 smaller lateral eyes, their diameter or slightly less from eyes of second 

 row; anterior lateral eyes not fully twice their diameter from front 

 margin of clypeus, rather more than their diameter from eyes of second 

 row; eyes of second row their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



Upper margin of furrow of chelicerce with three teeth as in Lycosa; 

 lower margin with three teeth, of which the median one is stoutest 

 and some longest, the first well separated from it but the third 

 contiguous with it at base, the latter tooth reduced but not so much 

 as in most Pardosas. Labium clearly wider than long (6.5 : 6) ; basal 

 excavation one-fourth the total length; strongly attenuated anteriorly, 

 the sides straight or toward the middle weakly concave, anterior mar- 

 gin truncated or very slightly convex. 



Legs with tibia + patella of fourth pair of same length as the meta- 

 tarsus ; tibia + patella of the first legs of same length or a little shorter 

 than the cephalothorax ; tarsi clothed as usual ; spines of anterior tibiae 

 as usua. (PI. VIII, figs. 7 and 9.) 



Epigynum pentagonal in form, its anterior portion triangular; 

 posterior foveas relatively small, abruptly depressed, each roughly 

 pentagonal in shape with the longest side along the septal piece of 

 guide ; lateral ridges behind narrow, converging but rather widely sep- 

 arated behind, not bent abruptly inward toward each other as in atra. 

 (PI. XIII, fig. 5.) 



Total length, 7 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm. ; width, 2.3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.1 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.8 mm. ; met., 1.9 mm. 



Length of leg II, 8.1 mm. 



Length of leg III, 9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 12.1 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.7 mm. ; met., 3.7 mm. 



Male. — Cephalothorax darker than in the female, the median band 

 obscure and usually not at all evident except caudally and about the 

 dorsal furrow; lateral pale bands narrower and more obscure and the 

 marginal dark line or stripe wider. Chelicerce black or brownish black 

 except distally and along the mesal surface. Sternum entirely black. 

 Abdomen above entirely black, showing no markings; venter dusky 

 brown to gray black; pubescence, as also of cephalothorax, as in female. 

 Legs with femora above black or nearly so except distal, also usually 

 paler beneath; more distal joints of two anterior pairs of legs pale, with 

 faint annuli or entirely unmarked, the corresponding joints on the 

 posterior legs darker but also with markings faint. Palpi entirely black 

 except the patellae which are light brown. 



Tibia of palpus a little longer than the patella and stouter distally. 

 Scopus very long, curving obliquely forward and outward quite across 

 the bulb. (PI. XIII, fig. 6.) 



Total length, 6.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.; width, 

 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.7 mm. ; tib. -f pat., 3 mm. ; met., 2.2 mm. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Length of leg 11, 8.3 mm. 

 Length of leg III, 8.3 mm. 

 Length of leg IV, 11.4 mm, ; tib. + pat., 3,5 mm. ; met., 3.5 mm, 



Syn.— 1890. Lycosa sternalis, Marx, Proc. U. S. N, M., 12, p. .563. 

 1894. Pardosa sternalis, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 2, p. 51. 



1894. Pardosa coloradensis Banks (at least ad. part, magn.), J. N. Y. Ent, 

 Soc, 2, p. 51. 



1895. Pardosa coloradensis Banks, Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., S, p. 429 (Jrs.). 

 1895. Pardosa luteola, Banks, but not Emerton, loc. rit. 



1904. Pardosa sternalis, Chambeilin, Can. Ent., pp. 147 and 175. 



Type locality. — Colorado. 



Known localities. — Colorado!, Utah!, Idaho!, Kansas!, Iowa!, 



A strongly marked species very common in the West. 



Specimens of coloradensis Bks, in Mr. Banks' collection, which he 

 kindly permitted me to study, are the not fully mature individuals of 

 the species above described, 



Pardosa atra Banks, 1894. 



(J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. 2, p. 52.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax brownish black, lighter brown along the 

 middle, and with a few indistinct paler marks at borders especially 

 behind, not rarely a pale transverse stripe entirely across the posterior 

 margin; eye region deep black; median light band constricted in front 

 of dorsal groove, becoming anteriorly very dark or obscure. Cephalo- 

 thorax with median band and side marks in life clothed with whitish 

 or light gray pubescence, the hair elsewhere dark brown ; the entire 

 eye region with numerous long dark bristles which project forward. 

 Chelicerce blackish, reddish brown distally. Labium and endites deej) 

 brown to blackish. Sternum black, Coxce of legs beneath brown 

 suffused with blackish. Legs blackish, paler distally; the femora witli 

 a few mottlings of reddish brown, the other joints indistinctly or 

 obscurely annulate with the same color; legs densely pubescent and 

 with numerous long erect black bristles. Dorsum of abdomen black ; a 

 paler reddish-brown spear-shaped mark at base; the basal stripe con- 

 tiguous at its apex with a large pale spot on each side, these spots with 

 the characteristic black dot at center; posteriorly two rows of similar 

 spots which are confluent at the mesal line in pairs, thus forming a 

 series of wide chevron-formed marks; dorsum at sides with rather 

 large reddish brown dots or spots, the entire dorsum often appearing 

 reddish brown covered over with an irregular network of black; sides 

 similar to lateral portions of dorsum but light color more abundant 

 venter of abdomen brown except along sides where are some irregular 

 black marks. Epigynum and spinnerets fuscous. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Face of average height and shape. 



First row of eyes but shghtly prociirved, much shorter than the 

 second ; anterior median eyes about their diameter apart, only half so 

 far from the lateral eyes, of usual distance from eyes of second row; 

 anterior lateral eyes situated as usual; eyes of the second row 

 more than their diameter apart, half as far again from the eyes of the 

 much wider third row; quadrangle of posterior eyes not entirely one- 

 fourth as long as the cephalothorax. 



Labium much wider than long (8.25 : 6.5) ; basal excavation very 

 short, scarcely more than one-sixth the length of the labium ; labium 

 anteriorly strongly attenuated, sides rounded just above basal notch, 

 but above nearly straight for most of length; antero-lateral angles 

 widely rounded; front margin gently widely incurved. (PI. YIII, 

 fig. 3.) 



Legs with the tibia + patella of the fourth pair of the same length 

 as the metatarsus ; tibia + patella of the first pair clearly shorter than 

 the length of the cephalothorax; spines of anterior tibiae of usual 

 form and arrangement; tarsi of anterior pairs Avith thin scopulse at 

 sides. 



Eipigynum a strongly chitinized suboval area which is truncate 

 behind ; the posterior foveas relatively small, circular, deep and abruptly 

 delimited; lateral ridges bent inward toward each other behind, the 

 space between their ends occupied by the posterior end of the short 

 clavate guide which separates the foveae; the anterior and greater 

 area of the epigynum scarcely depressed each side of the median line. 

 (PI. XIII, fig. 8.) 



Total length, 9 mm. Length of the cephalothorax, 3.S nun.; 

 width, 2.9 mm. 



Length of leg I, 9.8 mm., tib. + pat., 3.3 mm.; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 9.6 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 13.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4 mm. ; met., 4 nmi^ 



Type locality. — Colorado. 



Known localities. — Colorado!, Utah!, 



In some respects this species is like granlandica. The cephalothorax 

 is smaller with the head narrower and more elevated. It is also 

 darker and its markings are less distinct. The epigynum seems con- 

 stant in its form and is easily distinguished from that of grcenlandica. 

 The median piece of guide at times is similarly soiuewhat elevated 

 anteriorly. 

 13 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE^IY OF [May, 



Pardosa emertoni Chamberlin, 1904. 



(Can. Entomologist, Vol. XXXVI, p. 175.) 

 Cephalothorax with a deep brown longitudinal band enclosing the 

 eyes of each side and extending to the posterior end of cephalothorax, 

 the two leaving between them and also along each border a yellow 

 band, the two dark bands and the three yellow bands being of approxi- 

 mately the same width ; each marginal band is bisected posteriorly by a 

 dark siipramarginal line; the median band often of a reddish tinge; the 

 lateral dark bands united in front across the face, enclosing the eyes 

 of the first and second rows, the median pale band narrowing and 

 ending in a point between the second and third eye rows; marginal 

 bands continuous in front with the j^ellow clypeus; in life the yellow 

 bands covered with white pubescence, which extends also from median 

 band forward between ej'^es to clypeus ; sides of cephalothorax covered 

 with brown pubescence. Chelicerce yellow, with sparse white hair 

 and long dark brown bristles. Labium brown. Endites and coxob 

 of legs beneath yellow. Sternum yellow, with four rows of black spots 

 which converge posteriorly, the two inner rows uniting posteriorly 

 into a single line ; clothed with white hair. Legs yellow to brown ; the 

 femora above dark, blackish, or with blackish streaks, but pale beneath ; 

 tibiae and tarsi of posterior pairs sometimes darkened; clothed with 

 white pubescence and some sparser dark hairs. Abdomen with a 

 black band across the anterior face which extends backward on each 

 side across the antero-lateral angle as a narrow stripe which reaches to 

 the spinnerets, the two black stripes leaving a wide reddish yellow 

 median band which is widest in front; in the basal portion of the dorsal 

 yellow band are two black lines or rows of black dots which meet in a 

 point at the middle forming thus a spear-shaped outline; behind the 

 dorsal band is more or less indistinctly divided by narrow transverse 

 lines into segments which contain each two minute black dots; sides of 

 abdomen pale yellow with numerous small black spots which are more 

 scattered ventrally and which are absent from a spot beneath each 

 antero-lateral angle; venter pale or whitish yellow with two rows of 

 black spots converging from the genital furrow to the spinnerets; 

 abdomen with the dark bands and spots clothed with brown hair, else- 

 where densely clothed with white hair which gives its color to the 

 abdomen in life or when dry. Spinnerets yellow. Epigynum yellow, 

 darker marginall}-. 



Cephalothorax highest between eyes of second and third rows, con- 

 cave between eyes of third row and the posterior declivity. Face 

 high, as high as the length of the chelicerce which are small and nar- 

 rowed distallv. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



First row of eyes much shorter than the second, hardly or not quite 

 extending from center to center of the eyes of the latter row, a little 

 procurved; anterior median eyes three-fourths their diameter apart, 

 somewhat closer to the smaller lateral eyes ; anterior lateral eyes twice 

 their diameter from front margin of clypeus, once and a half their 

 diameter from eyes of second row; anterior median eyes more than 

 their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row some less 

 than once and a half their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes rather more than one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Labium evidently wider than long (5.75 : 5) ; basal excavation about 

 one-fifth the total length of labium; labium in front of excavations 

 broadly cordate, the sides converging to a rounded point in front (PL 

 VIII, fig. 6), in middle region substraight but above convexly 

 curving to the middle point. 



Legs slender, metatarsus longer than tibia + patella of the fourth 

 pair; the two latter joints together clearly longer than the cephalo- 

 thorax ; tibia -\- patella of first legs of nearly same length as the cephalo- 

 thorax ; spines and scopulse of usual character. 



Septal piece of the guide of the epigynum in front rather narrow 

 with sides subparallel, but posteriorly abruptly and widely expanded 

 into a circular lobe which covers over most of the caudal portion of the 

 epigynum. (PI. XIV, fig. 1.) 



Total length, 6.3 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.9 mm. ; width, 

 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg I, S.S mm. ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 8.6 mm. 



Length of leg III, 8.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 12.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.8 mm. ; met., 4 mm. 



Male. — Male palpi black distally; front legs and head darker than in 

 the female, but otherwise there is not much difference between them. 



The scopus of the palpal organ is very long and wide and curved 

 obliquely outward across the bulb. 



Syn. — 18S5. Pardosa -pallida Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 496, 

 PI. 49, figs. 3 to 3c. (Nom. preocc. by P. pallida Walck., 1837.) 



1890. Pardosa pallida, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. N., 12, p. 56.5. 



1892. Pardosa pallida, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 44, p. 68. 



1903. Pardosa pallida, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 653, 

 PL 29, fig. 3. 



Type locality. — New Hampshire. 



Known localities. — New Hampshire!, Massachusetts, Connecticut, 

 New York!, District of Columbia!, Ontario!, Manitoba!. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^^ay, 



Pardosa distincta (Blackwall), 1846. 



(Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., Vol. XVII, pp. .32, 33.) 



Female 6 mm. long; light yellow with brown markings. 



The cephalothorax has two wide brown longitudinal stripes united at 

 the front of the head where they are nearly black, and a fine dark line 

 each side next the legs. The sides of the abdomen are brown, with a 

 very distinct light spot over the dorsal vessel, and a row of transverse 

 light spots behind. The sternum is brown with a light spot in the 

 middle. The abdomen is light beneath with a narrow brown stripe 

 half its length on each side. The epigynum is bright orange brown, 

 and the front pair of spinnerets are black. The legs are spotted with 

 brown, the spots sometimes grouped in rings; the tibiae are the darkest 

 parts of the legs. 



The epigynum has the guide short and wide, but this part is trans- 

 parent and the overlapping sides are not easily seen, so that it aj)- 

 pears narrow. (PI. XV, fig. 8.) 



In the male the cephalothorax and abdomen are darker, and the legs 

 lighter except at the base, where the upper sides of the coxae and part 

 of the femora are darker than in the female. The head and palpi are 

 black, with the patella and tibia a little lighter on top and probabl}^ 

 having some light hairs when alive. 



The male palpi are large, the tarsus being about as long as tibia and 

 patella. The palpal organ is dark colored and projects a little from 

 the bowl of the tarsus. The basal hook is rounded in the middle and 

 curves in a hook toward the base. (PI. XV, fig. 9.) 



This species is about the same size and color as P. pallida Emerton of 

 New England. The sternum is dark with a light median stripe on its 

 front half, while in pallida the sternum is light with four dark lines or 

 rows of spots converging behind . In the males the palpi, mandibles and 

 maxillae are darker than in pallida. The epigynum resembles that of 

 pallida, but is shorter and wider. The male palpi have the scopus 

 short and turned down at the point, while in pallida it is long and 

 slender, and extends across the whole width of palpus. (Emerton.) 



Svn. — 1894. Pardosa luteola Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad., Vol. 9, p. 427 

 " PI. 3, fig. 7. 



Locality. — Canada. 



Pardosa californica Keyserling, 1887. 



(Verh. z. b. Ges. Wien, 37, p. 483, PI. 6, fig. 44.) 

 Female (type). — Sides of cephalothorax dark brown, the eye region 

 black; a ihedian light yellowish brown band of the usual dagger shape, 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



produced anteriorly as a tongue-like process between the eyes of the 

 third row, this process divided by a median black line produced back- 

 ward from in front; behind the third eye row the median band is 

 abruptly extended laterally on each side, the widened region being nearly 

 though not fully as wide as the third eye row, the band then again 

 abruptly narrowed until but half so wide, continuing of this width 

 about the dorsal furrow, then passing down the posterior declivity 

 and narrowing to an acute point near the posterior margin; on each 

 side a marginal light band which extends for the entire length and 

 attains the clypeus in front, the band interrupted and sometimes 

 obscured by brown spots; clypeus pale, but with a triangular black 

 spot below each anterior lateral eye, the apex of the spot, as usual, 

 being upward and contiguous with the black surrounding the eyes. 



ChelicercB light reddish yellow; each at base with a black mark or 

 line which passes obliquely outward and distally, and with a larger 

 mark parallel with the first beginning at the inner side near the middle 

 and running obliquely outward and distally. Labium and endites with 

 yellow background, which in each case is nearly covered over by a 

 central black area. Sternum yellow with a large black spot on each 

 side extending from the middle to the front margin, leaving the 

 median area yellow; behind with numerous minute dark dots. Coxm 

 of legs beneath smoky yellow. Legs reddish yellow, all joints except 

 the tarsi with rather heavy black rings, these rings being incomplete 

 on the femora along the postero-inferior face except at the distal end. 

 Palpi colored like legs, but annuli less heavy. Abdomen above and on 

 the sides black with numerous minute reddish yellow dots; dorsum 

 at base with a reddish-yellow spear-shaped stripe reaching caudad to 

 the middle; near each lateral margin of the basal stripe toward the 

 front is a row of two or three black spots, and each side of its apex is an 

 obliquel,y placed angular light spot enclosing a central black spot; on 

 the posterior portion of dorsum a series of several chevron-marks, 

 each seemingly formed by the coalescence at the mesal line of two black 

 centered, angular light spots such as found each side of apex of the 

 basal mark; venter yellow, darker about the sides and caudad and 

 with a median dark stripe as wide as epigynum in front, but narrow- 

 ing to a truncate end behind and not reaching to the spinnerets. 

 Epigynum light reddish brown. 



Sides of face nearly straight, steep but not vertical, in height con- 

 siderably shorter than the length of the chelicerse. 



Anterior row of eyes much shorter than the second, not extending 

 more than between the centers of eyes of the latter, gently procurved ; 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



anterior median eyes more than three-fourths their diameter apart, 

 about two-thirds as far from the scarcely smaller lateral eyes, fully their 

 diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes twice their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus, slightly more than their dia- 

 meter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row their diameter 

 apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes as wide in front as long, wider 

 behind than in front in the ratio of 4 : 3, some more than one-fourth 

 as long as the cephalothorax. 



Chelicerce with furrows armed below as usual with three teeth, of 

 which the middle is a little longest, the third not very much reduced ; 

 the upper margin with three teeth of which the first is minute. 



Tibia + patella of fourth legs of same length as the metatarsus; 

 tibia + patella of first pair of same length as the cephalothorax; legs 

 of fourth pair four times as long as the cephalothorax; tarsi as usual 

 in the genus, those of the first two pairs of legs being scopulate laterally, 

 those of the posterior pairs simply setose; tibia) of first and second 

 pairs of legs with three pairs of spines below as is normal, the two first 

 pairs of these very long and overlapping; all tarsi straight or nearly so. 



Epigynum presenting no distinct lateral ridges posteriorly; lateral 

 plates of the guide very wide, extending laterally to or nearly to the 

 ends of the transverse piece and nearly as wide in front as behind, 

 covering over nearly completely the posterior half of the epigynal 

 area. (PL XIV, fig. 5.) 



Total length, 6.8 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.9 mm. ; width, 

 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.9 mm. ; met., 1.9 mm. 



Length of leg II, 8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 12.1 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.6 mm. ; met., 3.6 mm, 



Male (type). — Cephalothorax in color drab brown, with the head 

 region black; a narrow and short, inconspicuous median stripe over the 

 dorsal groove but not distinguishable in front of it, narrowing behind 

 as in female, not reaching posterior margin; marginal pale bands nearly 

 as in the female but obscured anteriorly. Clypeus not pale, black like 

 head region. Labium and endites blackish, pale distally. Sternum 

 nearly as in female. Palpi entirely black. Legs yellow, the femora with 

 inconspicuous black marks above, other joints with dark circular lines 

 about bases of the spines but otherwise unmarked. Abdomen much as 

 in female but with the markings much obscured, 



Scopus of palpal organ short and blunt, much as in lapidicina; 

 anterior margin of conductor much thickened, presenting three fleshy 

 lobes with apices projecting backward over the furrow. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Syn. — 1890. Pardosa californica, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12. 

 1904. Pardof.a californica, Chamberlin, Canadian Ent., p. 14fi. 



Tijpe locality. — California. 



Known localities. — California!, Utah!. 



This is a common Pardosa on the Pacific Coast. Specimens from 

 Utah are lighter colored than those which I have seen from California 

 (including Keyserling's types, described above, which have of course 

 darkened in the alcohol). In the Utah specimens the lateral yellow 

 stripes are wide, with the upper margin sinuous and with a black line 

 along the lower, a somewhat indistinct and irregular black line dividing 

 the stripes longitudinally; endites yellow; labium and sternum brown, 

 the latter usually not showing the black markings as described above 

 for the type; chevron-marks of dorsum containing each from two to 

 four black dots, as if formed by the confluence of as many light, black- 

 centered dots; sides gray black with numerous minute brown dots; 

 venter immaculate light gray or with a few small dark dots back of 

 epigynum and at each side; spinnerets pale yellow, Cephalothorax 

 in life clothed with light gray and brown hair, the sides with brown, 

 the median band especially posteriorly with gray, and the lateral stripes 

 with gray except along the geminating dark line, the median stripe in 

 front with brown and gray pubescence intermixed. Chelicerce with 

 light gray hair and long brown bristles. Sternum and legs with light 

 gray hair, the latter with longer brown bristles. Abdomen clothed 

 above with chiefly light brown hair, light gray or white hair in spots 

 on each side and forming some transverse lines posteriorly, scattered 

 longer dark brown bristles; sides of abdomen with brown and gray 

 pubescence intermixed in streaks and spots; venter with hair unmixed 

 gray. 



Pardosa lapidicina Emerton, 1885. 



(Trans. Conn. Acad., 6, p. 491, PI. 48, figs. 5 to 5c.) 

 Female. — Sides of the cephalothorax black; a lighter, though some- 

 times indistinct or even obscure median band of dark reddish brown 

 color which begins as a narrow process between the posterior eyes, 

 behind the third eye row abruptly widens and is constricted in front of 

 dorsal furrow, at the caudal end of which it is strongly narrowed, its 

 margin more or less dentate; on each side, at least posteriorly, a row of 

 supramarginal light spots which are sometimes obscured , but in others 

 are long and distinct; eyes surrounded with black; labium black, not 

 paler than sides of cephalothorax; sides of cephalothorax clothed 

 densely with rather long gray or brownish gray to blackish pubescence, 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



which quite eonceals the Ught markings of the tegument and gives the 

 cephalothorax a uniform grayish black a])pearance. Chelicerce reddish 

 brown to reddish yellow, usually with a black median mark at base, 

 clothed densely with white pubescence, with sparse longer dark brown 

 bristles. Endites yellow or light brown, paler apically, often dusky. 

 Labium deeper colored than endites, dark brown to black. Sternum 

 black, clothed subdensely with short whitish or light gray pubescence. 

 liBgs yellow to brown; on all joints except the tarsi with black annuli 

 which are broadest proximall}', being on the femora often confluent 

 below and laterally, leaving light spots only above ; the legs have usually 

 a bluish or greenish-gray hue proximally, especially on ventral surface. 

 Abdomen with tegument above and over sides bluish black, a black- 

 margined lanceolate mark at base above, followed on each side behind 

 by a row of irregular pale spots; the median region behind, in some 

 with, but in others without, irregular light chevron-marks, enclosing 

 the characteristic dark spots, in some pale specimens entire dorsum 

 and sides with many light spots, irregularly connected above into a 

 network; venter light brown, of bluish to greenish gray cast, rarely 

 black, in some a dark median band behind spinnerets; dorsum and sides 

 covered with brown and grayish pubescence, the venter with grayish. 



Face moderately high, the sides substraight and very steep, nearly 

 vertical. 



First row of eyes much shorter than the second, but little procurved ; 

 anterior median eyes fully three-fourths their diameter apart, evidently 

 closer to the lateral eyes, than which they are slightly larger; anterior 

 lateral eyes, as usual, twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus, 

 their diameter from e3'es of second row; eyes of second row about once 

 and a quarter their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes one- 

 fourth as long as the cephalothorax, a little wider in front than long. 

 Chelicerce armed as typical for the genus, having two teeth above and 

 three below with the third reduced. Labium wider than long in ratio of 

 about 9 :8.25; basal excavation one-fourth total length, strongly 

 attenuated anteriorly; the front margin nearly straight, slightly 

 incurved mesally. 



Legs long and slender ; metatarsus of fourth pair longer than tibia + 

 patella of same pair; spines below on anterior tibiae as usual; scopulae 

 of typical form. 



Epigynum with the guide inversely T-shaped ,the median piece pointed 

 anteriorly and not extending into front portion of depression, which is 

 thus undivided ; transverse arms widest distally ; lateral plates of guide 

 verv narrow. (PI. XIV, fig. 7.) 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



Total length, 9.3 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.7 mm.; width, 

 3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 13.1 mm. : tib. + pat., 4.8 mm. ; met., 3.5 mm. 



Length of leg II, 12.5 mm. 



Length of leg III, 12.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 7.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5.3 mm. ; met., 5.5 mm. 



Male.— Colov much as in female but darker and the markings more 

 obscure ; the legs often almost entirely black, showing no annulations 

 except distally or none at all. Tarsus of palpus black, as also the 

 femur and often the tibia, the patella lighter. Smaller than female. 



Tibia of palpus with sides substraight, enlarging from base to apex, 

 clearly narrower than the tarsus. Scopus very short, about as broad as 

 long, distally rounded and a little uncate at exterior side; spur usually 

 in front concealed by fold ; embolus short, extending but little beyond 

 middle; conductor divided into two open furrows by a narrow chitinous 

 ridge extending obliquely downward and outward, the posterior mar- 

 gin of the exterior furrow with two short, uncate tenacula close together 

 or in part overlapping. (PI. XIV, fig. 8.) 



Total length, 6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm. ; width, 2.3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 10.1 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.3 mm. ; met., 2.9 mm. 

 . Length of leg II, 10.2 mm. 



Length of leg III, 10.4 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 13.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.3 mm. ; met., 4.4 mm, 



Svn.— 1892. Pardosa lapidicina, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 161. 

 — — . Pardosa lapidicina, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 6S. 



. Pardosa ohsolcta Banks, ibid., p. 71, PI. 3, fig. 4.5. 



. Pardosa venusta Banks, ibid., p. 69, PI. 1, figs. 42, 42a. 



1894. Pardosa lapidicina Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 428. 



1902. Pardosa lapidicina Emerton, Common Sp. U. S., p. 78, figs. 186, 187, 

 188. 



1903. Pardosa lapidicina, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 

 652, PL 29, figs. 6, 9. 



1904. Pardosa mercurialis Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 

 270, PI. XIX, figs. 20, 21. 



. Pardosa iexana Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, p. 115, PI. V, fig. 4. 



Type locality. — Massachusetts and Connecticut. 



//abi'^o/.— Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island!, Canada, 

 New York !, New Jersey !, District of Columbia !, Pennsylvania, Indiana !, 

 Iowa !, Kansas !, Arkansas !, Texas !. 



A very familiar species in the Northern States, found among stones 

 along streams and also to some extent remote from water in diy places. 

 Its general dark gray color blends well with the color of the stones among 

 which it lives . Specimens from the West and South are commonly much 

 lighter than specimens from the Northeast, and in them the marginal 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May^ 



spots on the cephalothorax form a band except for narrow dark 

 cross-lines; the legs are more conspicuously annulate, the light rings 

 contrasting more strongly with the dark. As other species having 

 the same range as lapidicina undergo similar changes in brightness 

 of color, and especially since the light form of lapidicina and all 

 intermediate forms are not rare in the North, the Western specimens of 

 this Pardosa ought not to be granted rank as separate species or 

 variety. Type specimens of venusta Bks. that I have seen are not 

 fully adult, and agree perfectly with immature specimens of lapidicina. 



Pardosa xerampelina (Keyserling), 1876. 



(Sub Lijcosa, Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 622, PI. 7, fig. S.) 



Female. — Sides of cephalothorax and eye region black or deep brown; 

 clypeus light brown; no distinct lateral light stripes, but sometimes a 

 few obscure light spots above margin on each side posteriorly ; a median 

 reddish brown band which is widest about the dorsal groove, behind 

 which it is strongly and more or less abruptly narrowed, the light 

 median band mostly dull and inconspicuous ; in life the cephalothorax 

 is clothed along sides and on head and over median band behind by 

 whitish pubescence, the other parts clothed with brown and black hair. 

 Chelicerce reddish brown, each with a short longitudinal yellowish 

 stripe above or at middle. Labium and endites brown, paler at tip. 

 Sternum dark reddish brown to blackish brown, an obscure median 

 pale line anteriorly; clothed with light gray pubescence. Coxce of 

 legs beneath brown. Legs yellow to brown; all joints excepting the 

 tarsi ringed with black; the femora dorsally are distinctly darker 

 than the other joints; clothed with brown and light gray pubescence, 

 the gray over the light parts, the brown over the darker. Abdomen 

 above black or nearly so ; a lanceolate basal mark of brown ; basal stripe 

 joined at two points on each side near its apex by the ends of a V-shaped 

 mark the apex of which is directed laterally ; posteriorly a series of light 

 transverse more or less chevron-shaped markings; all markings of 

 dorsum more or less faint; sides of abdomen and part of the venter 

 about the spinnerets black, the venter elsewhere being light brown; 

 abdomen clothed above with brown pubescence with a row of small 

 spots of whitish hair along each side; venter of abdomen clothed with 

 light gray pubescence. Spinnerets brown. Epigynum brown, with the 

 depression showing as a distinctly darker V-shaped figure with apex 

 caudal. 



Face high, the chelicerte but little longer than its height; sides of face 

 substraight, steep but a little slanting outward from above dowm^ ard. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



Dorsal line of cephalothorax in profile straight in front of the dorsal 

 furrow, at which it is but slightly depressed. 



Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second in the usual degree, 

 only slightly procurved ; anterior median eyes four-fifths their diameter 

 apart, much closer to the but slightly smaller lateral eyes, their diam- 

 eter from eyes of second row ; anterior lateral eyes fully twdce their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus, once and a half their diameter 

 from eyes of second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth as 

 long as the cephalothorax. 



Margins of furrow of chelicerce armed as usual. Labium wider than 

 long, strongly attenuated, anteriorly trimcated or a little concave. 



Legs with tibia + patella of the fourth pair shorter than the meta- 

 tarsus; tibia + patella of the first pair shorter than the cephalothorax; 

 spines of anterior tibiae as usual, the first two pairs long and overlap^ 

 ping; tarsi clothed in the common manner, 



EpigTjnum clearly wider in front than posteriorly; guide widest 

 anteriorly narrowing caudally, the transverse arms of guide short, the 

 guide plates extending to their ends; lateral ridges but weakly elevated. 

 (PI. XIV, fig. 3.) 



Total length, 8 nun. Length of cephalothorax, 3.7 mm.; width, 

 2.6 mm. 



Length of leg I, 10.2 mm. ; tib- + pat., 3.3 mm. ; met., 2.3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.5 mm. 



Length of leg III, 9.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 14 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4 mm. ; met., 4.3 mm. 



Male. — Smaller than the female but differing but little in coloration. 

 "The male palpi are long and the joints scarcely enlarged." (PI. 

 XIV, fig. 4.) 



Small specimens are 5 mm. long. 



Syn.— 1877. Lycosa impavida Thorell, Bull. U. S. Geol. Sur. Terr., Vol. 3, 



p. 513. 

 1878. Lycosa tachypoda Thorell, Am. Nat., June, 1878. 

 1885. Pardosa monlana Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 498, PI. 49, 



figs. 5, 5a. 

 1890. lAjcosa xerampelina, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12. 



. Lycosa impavida, Mavx, ibid.. 



. Lycosa tachypoda, Marx, ibid. 



. Pardosa montana, Mar.x, ibid. 



1892. ? Pardosa ynontana, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 44, p. 70. 



1894. Pardosa tachypoda, Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 427, PI. 3, 

 figs. 6, 6a. 



1895. Pardosa impavida, Banks, Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., Vol. 8, p. 430. 

 1902. Pardosa tachypoda and montana, Emerton, Common Sp. of U. S., p. 



81, figs. 193 to 196. 

 1902. Pirata procursus Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 583, 

 PI. 30, fig. 48. 




200 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Type locality. — Illinois. 



Known localities. — New Hampshire!, Massachusetts, Illinois, Color- 

 ado!, Utah!, New York?, Pennsylvania, Canada. 



Essentially a Northern and mountain species. It is not unconnnon 

 in Canada and in the ^^Tiite Mountains of New England, but does not 

 occur commonly more southward. It also ranges south from Canada 

 along the Rocky Mountains, and is common in Colorado and Utah. 



Pardosa groenlandica(Thorell), 1872. 



(Sub Lycosa, Ofvers. af. Vet. Akad. Forh., 29.) 

 Fetnalc. — Cephalothorax black or nearly so; a lighter, brown median 

 band beginning only a little in front of dorsal furrow, passing over the 

 latter and then narrowing to a Hne on the posterior declivity ; from the 

 front of the median band a horn-shaped yellow mark extends out- 

 ward and forward on each side toward the corresponding eye of the 

 third row, which, however, it does not reach; more rarely these horn- 

 like marks are obscure or quite absent; a row of three or less commonly 

 four curved light marks above the margin of each side; hair of 

 cephalothorax long, brown and light gray or whitish intermixed, the 

 whitish hair more or less unmixed with brown on the clypeus, the light 

 supramarginal marks and on the median light area behind. Chelicerm 

 reddish-yellow or brown above and black distally, the lighter color 

 often reduced to a few spots; clothed with short light gray hair and 

 longer brown bristles. Labium and endites brown, lighter at tips. 

 Sternum black, clothed with gray hair. Coxa; of legs beneath brown. 

 Legs brown, mostly of a reddish hue; all joints, excepting tarsi, with 

 distinct black annulations; clothed with brown and whitish hair, 

 chiefly over the dark and light parts respectively. Palpi brown; 

 femora ringed with black; patella unmarked; tibise black at proximal 

 end and the tarsi black at tips. Abdomen above black or blackish 

 brown, the tegument either entirely without light markings or with a 

 lanceolate basal mark of reddish-brown color ; each side of this mark at 

 its base may be a spot of the same color, as also an obscure smaller spot 

 each side of apex behind; more rarely there may be distinguishable 

 posteriorly a lumiber of obscure light spots more or less confluent in 

 pairs; abdomen covered above with brown hair, with bunches of 

 white hair forming a row of white spots along each side; sides of 

 abdomen above like the dorsum, below light brown with numerous 

 darker, reddish-brown or rust-colored spots usually connected into a 

 continuous network; sides covered with brown and white hair inter- 

 mixed in streaks and spots and quite concealing the tegument and its 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



markings; venter brown, with in most a median and on each side a 

 lateral stripe of reddish-brown or rust color behind genital furrow, 

 these stripes formed by a close network; venter clothed with white 

 hair. Spinnerets brown, the anterior ones frequently darker or even 

 blackish. Epigynuju reddish brown. 



Chelicerae rather long for a Pardosa, once and a fourth or more times 

 as long as the height of the face; sides of face nearly straight, steep. 



Anterior row of eyes much shorter than the second, slightly pro- 

 curved; anterior median eyes their diameter apart or nearly so, rather 

 less than half as far from the lateral eyes, their diameter from eyes of 

 second row; anterior lateral eyes but slightly smaller than the median, 

 twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus and their diameter 

 from eyes of second row; eyes of second row a little more than their 

 diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth the length of 

 the cephalothorax. 



Chelicem with the lower margin armed with three teeth of usual 

 proportions, the upper with two. Labium as wide as long or slightly 

 wider (8 : 7.8); basal excavation about one-fourth or slightly more the 

 length of the labium; strongly attenuated anteriorly; the sides rounded 

 below but straight or substraight above; front margin straight or very 

 slightly incurved. 



Legs with the metatarsus of the fourth pair longer than the tibia + 

 patella ; tibia + patella of the first pair of the same length as the ceph- 

 alothorax; spines of tibife as usual; tarsi clothed as common in the 

 genus. 



Epigynum somewhat flask- or decanter-shaped, being narrow in 

 front but widely rounded behind ; lateral furrows narrow and shallow 

 in front, widely expanded behind; septum high, narrow in front and 

 more or less clavately widening caudally, higher than the transverse 

 arms, which are dark in color, more or less roinided above and bent 

 backward distally, their ends fitting into excavations in the lateral 

 ridges. ( PI. XIV, fig. 6.) 



Total length, 10.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.2 mm.; width, 

 3.7 mm. 



Length of leg I, 13 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.2 mm. ; met., 3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 12.5 mm. 



Length of leg III, 12.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 17.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5.4 mm. ; met., 5.8 mm. 



Male.— Color in general as in the female though rather darker; palpi 

 entirely black and black-haired or with the patella paler above; legs 

 darker than in female, the light markings being more reduced. The 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^SiJ, 



cephalothorax is a little longer than the tibia + patella of the first legs. 

 Legs a little longer relatively than in the female. 



Palpi thick and short; patella as long as the tibia which is gradually 

 dilated distally; tarsus as long as the two preceding joints taken 

 together. The scopus is short and blunt, its basal spur straight. 



Total length, 9.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.5 mm.; width. 

 3.5 mm. 



Length of leg I, 13 mm. 



Length of leg II, 13 mm. 



Length of III, 13.5 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 17.75 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5 mm. 



Syn.— 1877. Lycosa tristis Thorell, Bull. U. S. G. Surv. Terr., Vol. 3, No. 2, 



p. 510. 



. Lycosa indigatrix Thorell, ibid., p. 512. 



. Lycosa iracunda Thorell, ibid., p. 514. 



. Lycosa sinistra Thorell, ibid., p. 517. 



1878. Lycosa dromoea Thorell, Am. Nat., June. 



1885. Pardosa albomaculata Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., U, p. 495, 



PI. 48, figs. 3 to 36. 

 1890. Lycosa groenlandica, tristis, indigatrix, iracunda, sinistra, Marx, 



Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, pp. 562, 563. 

 . Pardosa albomacidala, Marx, ibid., p. 565. 



1894. Pardosa groenlandica, Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 423, 

 PI. 4, figs. 1 to 1/. 



. Pardosa indigatrix and iracunda. Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 2, pp. 51 



and 52. 



1895. Pardosa groenlandica and tristis, Banks, Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., 8, p. 

 430. 



1902. Pardosa albomaculata or groenlandica, Emerton, Common Sp. of U. 

 S., p. 79, figs. 189, 190. 



Type locality. — Greenland. 



Known localities. — Greenland, Canada!, New England (White Moun- 

 tains) !, Colorado !, Utah !. 



"Bare rocks on the upper part of the White Mountains, running 

 very rapidly and dodging under stones at slight alarm" (Emerton). 



A boreal species. Common in the mountains of Utah and Colorado, 



Pardosa modica (Blackwall), 1846. 



(Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., Vol. XVII, p. 33.) 

 Female.— Cephalothorax deep brown or black marked by two lateral 

 and a median longitudinal pale stripe; eye region deep black; median 

 stripe reddish brown, widest just behind third eye row, narrowed and 

 constricted at the front end of the dorsal groove and again immediately 

 behind it, geminated in front of the groove by a median black line; 

 lateral pale stripes supramarginal, narrow, reaching to the clypeus in 

 front which is likewise pale; pale stripes clothed with w^hite hair, the 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



dark parts with brown. Chelicerce yellowish to brown over front 

 face, darker at tips and along a narrow stripe extending down the 

 mesal face and turning obliquely outward below; also a dark line 

 along exterior face. Labium and endites brown, usually darker toward 

 base. Coxce of legs beneath brown. Sternum brown, with a black stripe 

 or row of black spots each side of the median line and a narrower black 

 line or row of small spots along each lateral margin ; sometimes entirely 

 black; clothed with grayish white hair. Legs brown; femora marked 

 above and beneath with several longitudinal black lines or narrow 

 stripes and with cross-marks on the sides; tibiae above with a trans- 

 verse black band at the proximal end, and with a median longitudinal 

 black line extending from this to the distal end, and also with a similar 

 black line along each lateral face; the basal black band on posterior 

 tibiae usually half as wide as the length of the joint, narrow on 

 anterior ones ; at least the posterior patellae with a median longitudinal 

 black line above and a similar one at each side ; metatarsi especially of 

 the posterior pairs with a more indistinct median dorsal line, the pos- 

 terior ones also usually annulate with dark ; the femora appear evidently 

 darker than the more distal joints and the posterior legs darker than 

 the anterior. Abdomen above brownish black ; a basal lanceolate stripe 

 of reddish-brown color; a series of transverse lines behind of same color, 

 usually more indistinct, these marks formed of two rows of converging 

 spots as is usual ; sides of abdomen reddish brown mostly spotted with 

 black; venter light brown, often with two dark lines close together 

 along the median line and gradually converging caudad ; sometimes a 

 similar dark line at each side; at other times the venter is brown 

 without markings or with dark spots at the sides; in life the abdomen 

 is clothed above over the dark parts with dark brown hair, the light 

 lanceolate basal mark covered with whitish hair, and a number of 

 transverse lines of similar light hair behind with or without a row of 

 small white spots along each side of them. Epigynum dark brown. 

 Spinnerets dark brown to black. 



Cephalothorax of moderate height or rather low; in profile highest at 

 the third eye row, the dorsal line from there to the posterior declivity 

 nearly straight, gradually slanting, depressed each side of the dorsal 

 groove. Chelicerce about once and a fourth as long as the face is high; 

 sides of face nearly straight, slightly slanting from the vertical. 



Anterior row of eyes of the usual relative length and curvature ; 

 anterior median eyes their diameter apart or nearly so, much closer 

 to the lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes smaller than the median, a 

 little more than their diameter from eyes of second row, twice their 




204 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



diameter from front margin of clypeus; eyes of second row their diam- 

 eter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth the length of the 

 cephalothorax, as wide in front as long. 



Teeth of the margins of the furrow of the chelicercB of the typical 

 arrangement and form. Labium of the same width as length or 

 nearly so; labium about four and a half times longer than its basal 

 excavation; attenuated as usual; sides above straight; front margin 

 straight. 



Legs with the tibia + patella of the fourth pair a little longer than 

 the metatarsus or sometimes of the same length ; tibia + patella of the 

 first legs evidently shorter than the cephalothorax; spines of tibiae 

 and clothing of tarsi as usual. 



The epigynum in its general form resembles that of groenlandica ; 

 the septal piece of guide is more abruptly depressed anteriorly, usually 

 widened into a quadrangular form at front of the wide foveas and then 

 clavately widening caudally ; transverse arms of guide more conspicu- 

 ous, strongly bent forward at their ends; posterior ends of lateral 

 ridges more widely separated. (PI. XV, figs. 1 and 3.) 



Total length, 9 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4 mm. ; width, 3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 9.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.3 mm. ; met., 1.7 mm, 



liength of leg II, 9.2 mm. 



Length of leg III, 9.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 13.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.2 mm. ; met., 4 mm. 



Male. — Coloration similar to that in female but darker; the median 

 band of cephalothorax obscured in front of the dorsal groove; lateral 

 light stripes narrow and indistinct or obscured; light markings of the 

 abdomen indistinct. 



Tibia of palpus of about the same length as the patella but evidently 

 stouter, enlarged distad; sides of patella, seen from above, parallel; 

 tarsus very broad, one and three-fourth times as broad as the tibia, 

 ovate, acutely pointed. Palpal organ very similar to that of groen- 

 landica, but the embolus is relatively longer and there are differences 

 in the conductor, etc. (PI. XV, figs. 2 and 4.) 



Total length, 8 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4 mm.; width, 

 3.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 10.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.G mm. ; met., 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 10.5 mm. 



Length of leg III, 10.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 12 nnn. ; tib. + pat., 4.2 mm. ; met., 43 mm, 



Syn. . Lycosa glacialis Thorell. Ofvers. af. Vet. Akad. Forh., 29. 



1875. ? Lycom furcifera Thorell Proc. Bost. Soc. N. Hist., 17, p. 499. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



. Lycosa fusculn Thorell, ibid., p. 501 . 



1877. Lycosa concinna Thorell, Bull. U. S. G. Surv. Terr., 3, p. 506. 



187S. Lycosa glacialis Thorell, Am. Xat., June. 



1885. Pardosa brunnea Enierton, Trau.s. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 495, PI. 48, 



figs. 4 to 4b (variety). 

 1890. Lycosa glacialis concinna, fuscula and furcifera, Marx, Proc. I,'''. S.'N. 



M., 12. 



. Pardosa brunnea, Marx, ibid., p. 565. 



1892. Pardosa brunnea, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliife., 44, p. 70. 



1894. Pardosa glacialis, Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 424, PI. 4, 

 figs. 2 to 2i. 



. Pardosa brunnea Emerton, ibid., p. 425, PI. 4, figs. 2g, 2h. 



. Pardosa conciiina, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 2, p. 51. 



1895. Pardosa concinna, Banks, Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., 8, p. 429. 



1896. ? Pardosa brunnea, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 4, p. 192. 

 1902. Pardosa glacialis, or brunnea, Emerton, Common Sp. U. S. 



Type locality. — Canada. 



Known localities. — Greenland!, Canada!, Colorado, l^tah!, Idaho, 

 Oregon, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire!. 



Var. brunnea. — Ehierton now believes his brunnea to be a synonym of 

 modica (glacialis). All the specimens I have had the opportunity^ of ex- 

 amining from New England, however, present small differences both in 

 epigynum and in the male palpus from specimens of modica from Green- 

 land and Canada. But the species is subject to much variation ; and it is 

 uncertain whether the New England forms can be maintained more 

 than tentatively as a distinct variety. (PI. XV, figs. 3 and 4.) 



This species is abundant in Greenland, Canada, Colorado and Utah. 



Pardosa labradorensis (Thorell), 1875. 



(Sub Lycosa, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 17, p. 502.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax brownish black with three rather narrow 

 longitudinal bands covered with whitish hair, the middle one reaching 

 to the pars cephalica, trimcated and geminated anteriorly, narrowing 

 backwards, the lateral bands supramarginal, continuous, rather uneven 

 in the upper margin. Chelicerce dull yellowish or ferruginous brown. 

 Labium blackish, with pale apex. Endites dark yellowish brown, their 

 palpi of the same color, the femoral joint with blackish longitudinal 

 streaks and spots. Sternum black. Legs of a dark and dull yellowish 

 brown, the femora with dark streaks and spots above and on the 

 sides, limiting above two large oblong pale spots divided longitudin- 

 ally by a fine black line; the patellae and tibiae have each three blackish 

 longitudinal lines. Abdomen brownish, with traces of a short white 

 band at the anterior margin of the dorsum. Epigynum ferruginous. 

 Spinnerets blackish. 



Cephalothorax rather long and narrow, with the sides of the pars 

 cephalica almost perpendicular. 

 14 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



The anterior row of eyes but veiy slightly, scarcely j^erceptibly, 

 curved forwards, its central eyes of the same size as (at least not greater 

 than) the laterals, and somewhat more distant from each other than 

 from the lateral eyes ; eyes of the second series separated by an interval 

 not much (about one-fourth) greater than their diameter. 



Chelicerm narrow, but slightly convex longitudinally; their length 

 is greater than the height of the face and the length of tlie patellai. 

 Labium with slightly rounded apex. 



Seen from the under side the anterior tihice show four pairs of spines, 

 the third pair belonging to the sides of the joint. 



The e-pigynum forms no deep fovea, as in P. fuscula, ex.gr., the 

 elevated area shows, when the hair is rubbed off, a sj-^stem of short 

 furrows and impressions rather difficult to describe, and forming a 

 large oblong figure, rather narrow in its anterior half, then dilated 

 gradually with rounded sides, and truncated behind ; the anterior part, 

 which is divided from the posterior by a large but not deep transverse 

 depression, shows two longitudinal parallel furrows, the anterior 

 apices of which are rounded; the narrow interval between these fur- 

 rows is pointed anteriorly, and has in the middle a very fine longitudinal 

 furrow ; the posterior broad part of the epigynum shows on each side 

 a deep, oblique, incurved, crescent-formed fovea; the space between 

 these fovese is triangular, with the apex directed backward, and 

 divided by a deep middle longitudinal furrow. 



Total length, 6.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.25 mm.; width, 

 2.25 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.75 mm. 



Length of leg II, 8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 13 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.75 mm. 



Male.— A male thought to belong to this species differs by the 

 cephalothorax being of a purer black, with the lateral bands less dis- 

 tinct. The legs, which have the same markings as in the female, are 

 of a clearer yellowish-brown color than in that sex, but darker at the 

 base; the coxae are black above and blackish beneath, the thighs also 

 blackish on the under side towards the base; the tarsi are yellowish 

 brown scarcely black at the extreme apex (as in the female). The 

 palpi are very dark yellowish brown (the tibial joint almost black) 

 with black lines, and the tarsal joint quite black; the tibial joint is 

 thickly clothed with black hair; also the other joints are black-haired. 

 The abdomen has a very distinct narrow band at base covered with 

 whitish hair; venter blackish. 



The patella of the palpus is somewhat longer than broad, cylindrical ; 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



tibia scarcely longer than the patella but broader, being slightly and 

 gradually dilated toward the apex; the tarsus is as long as the two 

 preceding joints together, almost pear-shaped. The genital bulb is very 

 high at the base on the under side, this elevated part being obliquely 

 truncated and emarginate on the outer side; it shows in front a large 

 fovea, from which issues a very short and coarse obtuse tooth directed 

 obliquely forward and outward, and bearing at its base a longer and 

 narrower pointed black tooth directed outward and curved backward 

 and downward; this latter tooth lies almost concealed in the fovea; 

 in the middle of the outer margin of the bulb a strong, pointed, down- 

 wardly directed black tooth is visible; close to the anterior side of its 

 posterior elevated portion is a transverse spine-like costa (embolus); 

 the anterior lower part of the bulb shows on the outer side two pale 

 appendages or narrow lobes. 



Total length, 6.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.25 nmi.; width, 

 2.25 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.75 mm. 



Length of leg II, 8.5 mm. 



Length of leg IV, n.75 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.25 mm. 



(From Thorell.) 



Habitat. — Strawberry Harbor ( 9 ) and Square Island (o'), Labrador. 



The female was captured July 28; the male also in July. "This 

 species greatly resembles P. fuscula; but it is smaller, with the sides of 

 the head more perpendicular, the interval between the two largest 

 eyes is smaller, and the form of the vulva is quite different. P. 

 lahradorensis is a Pardosa C. Koch, while fuscula (and furcifera) appear to 

 belong to Leimonia C. Koch." (Thorell.) 



In general coloration, proportions and' structure, and especially in 

 the structure of the J* palpus, this form is certainl}- very close to 

 modica, and it may prove not to be anything different. It is possible 

 that the differences in the epigynum, which Thorell thinks considerable, 

 may be due to the type of lahradorensis being not entirely adult, the 

 epigynum of immature specimens of modica which I have seen seeming 

 largely to agree with the description of that of lahradorensis given as 

 above by Thorell. 



Pardosa mackenziana (Keyserling), 1876. 



(Sub Lycosa, Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 621, PI. 7, fig. 7.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax with a light median reddish-brown band as 

 broad anteriorly as the eye area or nearly so, usually broken a little 

 way back of its anterior end by a transverse dark stripe, behind 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



which the band continues of a uniform width over the median groove 

 and then narrows down the posterior dechvity, sometimes sending off 

 a process from each side just in front of the posterior margin; sides of 

 cephalothorax black, with or without an indistinct short Hght colored 

 supramarginal stripe posteriorly, with sometimes one or two light 

 spots anteriorly; this marginal band when present conspicuous; eye 

 region entirely black; clypeus brown. Chelicerce bluish brown, a wide 

 black stripe crossing the face of each obliquely from the inner face out- 

 ward, leaving a paler tip and a paler portion above it. Labivm and 

 endites brown, with the tips paler. Sternum black, an obscurely lighter 

 median line in front, such as occurs in mihmia. Coxce of legs beneath 

 light brown. Legs strongly marked with deep brown or black annul a- 

 tions alternating with rings of yellow or light brown, the latter rings 

 much narrower on femora and tibise, of the same width as the black 

 ones on the metatarsus; the tarsi clear yellow or light brown 

 or the anterior ones sometimes also obscurely annulate. Abdomen 

 above black, with a lanceolate mark of red-brown at base and a 

 series of transverse light marks behind, each of the latter being 

 composed of mostly four confluent black-centred spots of same color; 

 the transverse marks frequently obscure; sides of abdomen black, 

 minutely spotted with brown, the spots large below; venter brown to 

 gray. Spinnerets brown. Epigynum brown, of same hue as venter 

 inconspicuous. 



Face but little lower than the length of the chelicerae; sides straight 

 and vertical or nearly so. 



First row of eyes much shorter than the second, prociu'ved; anterior 

 median eyes their diameter or more apart, closer to lateral eyes which 

 are of equal size; anterior lateral eyes twice their diameter from front 

 margins of clypeus, their diameter or a little more from eyes of second 

 row; anterior median eyes their diameter from eyes of second row; 

 eyes of second row about their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes rather more than one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Margins of furrow of chelicerce armed as usual. Labium of same 

 width as length or very nearly so (1 : 1 to 7.25 : 7); basal excavation 

 longer and shallower than usual, but less than one-third the length of 

 labium; sides widely rounded below, straight above, front or anterior 

 margin truncate or slightly indented at middle. 



All tarsi spinulose beneath, the spinules arranged on all in two rows; 

 the lateral scopulse of anterior pairs very sparse or scarcely evident. 



Depressed area of epigj^num anteriorly very narrow; the posterior 

 area wide, almost completely filled by the expanded guide which 




1908-] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



presents lateral plates along transverse arms in front and externally ; 

 the ends of arms extending into excavations in side walls. (PI. XV, 

 fig. 5.) 



Total length, 6.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.; width, 

 2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 9.2 nmi. ; tib. + pat., 3.1 nnn. ; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg TI, 8.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 8.6 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 12.2 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4 mm. ; met., 3.7 mm. 



Male. — Color of cephalothorax and abdomen as in female. Mandibles 

 blackish with dusky brownish-yellow streaks. Labium and endites 

 also blackish. The female joint of the palpi is brownish yellow with 

 black spots and streaks especially toward the base; patella joint yellow- 

 ish brown, the tibia? black on sides and pale brownish above, covered 

 with black hair; tarsal joint black and black-haired, pale at apex. 

 Legs brownish yellow, the thighs black beneath, except at apex, and 

 with distinct blackish rings above; the following joints less distinctly 

 ringed. (Thorell.) 



The tibial joint is a little broader and, at least when seen from the 

 side, slightly longer than the patellar joint, gradually but very slightly 

 thickened toward the apex; the tarsal joint is fully as long as the two 

 preceding joints together, about double as broad as the tibial joint, 

 nearly ovate, but strongly narrowing toward apex, very convex. For 

 structure of bulb see PI. XV, figs. 6 and 7. 



Total length, 6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm. ; width, 2.5 

 mm. (nearly). 



Length of leg I, 10 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.5 mm. 

 -Length of leg III, 9.5 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 14 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.5 muL 



Syn.— 1877. Lycosa uncata Thorell, Bull. U. S. G. S. of Terr., 3, p. SOS. 

 1894. Pardosa dorsalis Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 2, p. 51. 

 1894. Pardosa uncata, Eiwrtoa, Trans. Conn. Ar-ad. Sci., 9, p. 425, PI. 3, 

 figs. S to 8/. 



Type locality. — Mackenzie River. 



Known localities. — Colorado!, Utah!, Idaho, Canada. 



Pardosa longispinata Tullgren, 1901. 



(Bill, till sv. Vet.-Akad. Handl., Band 27; Old. IV, No. 1, p. 23.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax dark brown, clothed with short adpressed 

 and long black upturned bristly hairs, with a white middle-band, 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



squarish in the cephalic part and as broad as the area of eyes, on the 

 pars thoraica narrow; the eye area nearly black; at the margins 

 broad white bands; the margin black. Chelicerce clothed with long 

 bristly hairs. Endites and labium light yeUow brown. Sternum light 

 brown with long light hairs. Legs pale brown with dark rings. Abdo- 

 men brown, clothed with black and white short hairs without distinct 

 markings; the venter light grayish. 



Cephcdothorax a little shorter than the length of tibia + patella of 

 fourth legs and the breadth shorter than the length of tibia of the 

 fourth pair of legs. Front row of eyes distinctly procurved, the 

 central eyes largest and the interspace between the central eyes about 

 equal to their diameter and longer than the space between the lateral 

 eyes. The distance from the lateral eyes to the margin of the clypeus 

 and to the eyes in the middle row about thrice their diameter. The 

 eyes of the middle row very large and the interspace between them 

 longer than their diameter. The interspace between the middle and 

 the posterior eyes broader than the diameter of the middle eyes. 

 Chelicerce a little longer than the face, very tapering at the apex and 

 clothed with long bristly hairs, a little narrower than the femur of first 

 pair. Tibia of first pair of legs below with 2, 2, 2 spines; these and 

 other spines very long. 



Total length, 4.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.5 mm.; width, 

 1.8 mm. 



Ijcngth of leg I, 7.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 10 mm. 



(Description rearranged from the original.) 



Locality. — Florida. One single adult female from Lake Leonore in 

 Orange County. 



This tiny Pardosa is not known to me at first hand. It is certainly 

 a very unusual form, if it be true that the "distance from the lateral 

 eyes to the margin of the clypeus and to the eyes in the middle row is 

 about thrice their diameter," a statement much to be questioned. 



Genus SCHIZOCOSA Chamberlin, 1904. 

 (Canadian Entomologist, ^^ol. XXXVI, p. 177.) 



Entire body densely clothed with pubescence; the cephalothorax 

 with a light median band as wide anteriorly as the eye area and either 

 with or without submarginal pale bands. Spines of anterior tibiae 

 in number and arrangement like those of Pardosa and Lycosa, in length 

 varying between those of these two genera. Anterior row of eyes 

 considerably shorter than the second, clearly procurved, more strongly 




. 1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



than usual in Pardosa or Lycosa; anterior median eyes larger i^an the 

 lateral, of nearly same distance from each other as from the lateral 

 eyes ; clypeus narrow, the anterior lateral eyes at most their diameter 

 or but little more from the front margin of clypeus, the same distance 

 or considerably farther from the eyes of second row; eyes of second row 

 large, less than their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes 

 evidently wider behind than in front. Chelicera? as in Lycosa, the third 

 tooth of the inferior margin of the furrow usually reduced. Labium 

 distinctly longer than broad, the basal notch one-third its total length. 

 Posterior spinnerets short, scarcely or not at all longer than the 

 anterior. Epigynum with a distinct guide which is elevate and well 

 developed anteriorly as in Lycosa; the transverse arms of guide double, 

 being divided from their exterior ends mesally to a varying distance; 

 lateral furrows not widening anteriorly. (See figs, of PI. XVI.) 

 Male palpus with a scopus exterior in position presenting 

 two processes as in Lycosa; exposed area of lunate plate small; 

 conductor conspicuously produced above, usually into a horn-like 

 elevation of varying size; superior margin of inferior furrow present- 

 ing, more or less externally from its middle, a short and pointed, 

 basally wide, plate-like tenaculum which is curved downward distally; 

 a second, shorter tenaculum farther externally and anteriorly; auricula 

 of lectus very long, extending forward along conductor and attaining 

 or nearly attaining front margin of alveolus; embolus distinctly and 

 more or less angularly elbowed at base of auricula. (See figs, of 

 PI. XVI.) 



Syn.— 1842. Lycosa, Hentz (ad. part, ocreata and venustula), J. Bost S N 

 H., IV, p. 228. • • • 



1875. Lycosa, Hentz (ad. part, cit.), Sp. of U. S., p. 24. 



1876. Lycosa, Ke5^serling (ad. part, ocreata and rufa), Verh. z. G. Wien 

 p. 610. ' 



1885. Pardosa, Emerton (ad. part, hilineata), Trans. Conn. Acad Sci VI d 

 494. ■ ■' '^' 



1892. Pardosa, Banks (ad. part, gracilis), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. p. 70. 



1902. Lycosa, Montgomery (ad. part, ocreata pulchra, relucens and veri- 

 similis), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 536. 



. Pardosa, Montgomery (ad. part. soHvaga), he. cit. 



1904. Lycosa, Montgomery (ad. part.), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 276. 



Pars cephalica truncated in front, its sides moderately rounded and 

 sloping, the face rather high, its sides slanting in varying degrees, some- 

 times approaching the Pardosa type more and sometimes the Lycosa. 

 The quadrangle of posterior eyes in length averaging one-fourth the 

 length of the cephalothorax, being thus longer than in Lycosa. The legs 

 are long and moderately stout, inclining to be slender distally; the 

 anterior tarsi scopulate, at least laterally, the posterior tarsi setose 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



below; the tibia and patella of the fourth legs taken together are always 

 considerably longer than the cephalothorax. The median light band 

 of the cephalothorax widens uniformly from behind for^^•ard to the 

 eyes; it is constricted in front of dorsal groove, but otherwise its 

 margins are nearly straight. The abdomen in all is marked above by 

 a broad light band which is nearly or fully as wide as the dorsum and 

 which extends over its entire length from base to spinnerets ; this band 

 enclosing at base a lanceolate outline, and behind in some also a series of 

 transverse angular lines of varying degrees of distinctness; sides of 

 abdomen dark in color, black at least across anterior lateral angles; 

 venter pale. 



Spiders of medium or small size. The males are but little different 

 in size from the females, but are sometimes characterized by having the 

 tibiae of the front pair of legs darkened in color and densely clothed 

 with long black hair which stands out in brush-like form. 



The cocoon is spherical, without any seam at equator, and is white 

 in color. 



Key to Species. 



Females. 



1. Sternum yellow, with two dark lines or rows of dark sjiots con- 



verging posteriori}^, bilineaia (Emerton). 



Sternum (lark, not marked as in hUineata, 2. 



2. Septal piece of guide very broad immediately in front of transverse 



arms, narrowing anteriorly where it is not sinuous or bent; the 

 median piece between anterior and posterior divisions of arms 

 very narrow, nuich narrower than the septum in front of arms 

 (PI. XVI, fig. 1); sternum usually black except marginally, 



ocreata (Hentz). 



Septal piece of guide sinuous or bent near anterior end ; median 



piece between anterior and posterior divisions of arms wide, 



wider than septum in front of transverse arms (PI. X\l, fig. 4); 



sternum usually reddish brown, saltatrix (Hentz). 



Males. 



1. First tibiae clothed with dense black hair standing out in brush- 



like form, 2. 



First tibiee not so clothed, saltatiix (Hentz). 



2. Legs yellow, without dark annuli or markings, bilineata (Emerton). 

 Legs annulate with dark, ocreata (Hentz). 



Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz), 1844. 



(Sub. Lycosa, J. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., IV, p. 391, PI. XVIII, fig. 5.) 

 Female. — Sides of the cephalothorax brownish black; median band 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 218 



reddish yellow, anteriorly passing forward broadly between eyes of third 

 row and nearly reaching second, more or less divided at front end by a 

 black median line or pointed process; eyes surrounded with black; on 

 each side considerably above margin a narrow, wavy light line which does 

 not extend forward upon the pars cephalica, this line often obscure; 

 clypeus reddish yellow, crossed beneath each anterior lateral eye by a 

 black mark or spot which is often confluent with its fellow across the 

 middle, thus leaving the clypeus pale only laterally; light bands of 

 cephalothorax in life clothed denseh^ with white or light gray pubescence. 

 Chelicene reddish brown, often dusky, except at distal ends, and marked 

 by black lines. Enditcs brown, the labium darker, usually blackish except 

 at tip. Sternum usually black or nearly so, paler along borders, especially 

 caudo-laterally; sometimes paler reddish brown. Coxce of legs beneath 

 light brown. Legs reddish brown, paler distally, all joints except the 

 tarsi with dark annulations, the annulations of the femora broader and 

 deeper, commonly more or less confluent, especially the anterior pairs, 

 the annulations of the other joints often indistinct. Sides of abdomen 

 above dark, a black band passing from the front face backward across 

 each antero-lateral angle and breaking up behind into numerous 

 streaks and spots; the dorsum covered for entire length by a broad 

 light brown band of often reddish tinge, the band usually constricted 

 in front of middle; within the light band at base a lanceolate outline 

 which bifurcates at its apex and is followed behind by a series of chevron- 

 lines; lower part of sides of abdomen light brown, marked with small 

 black spots; the venter light brown, either immaculate or with a 

 median, and at each side a lateral, row of dark spots behind the furrow 

 of the lung slits. Epigyman and spinnerets brown. Face moder- 

 ately high, two-thirds as high as the length of the chelicerse, its sides 

 moderately steep. First row of eyes considerably shorter than the 

 second, distinctly procurved, the median three-fourths their diameter 

 apart, nearly the same distance from the three-fourths as large lateral 

 eyes ; anterior lateral eyes their diameter, or slightly more, from front 

 margin of clypeus, very little farther from eyes of second row, eyes of 

 second row not fully their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes about one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax. Chelicerw 

 armed as usual. Labium longer than wide, the basal notch very long, 

 more than one-third the total length of labium; sides above straight 

 and strongly converging, the front margin straight, not at all curved. 

 Legs long, the distal joints rather slender; tibia 4- patella of first legs 

 of same length as the cephalothorax ; anterior tibiae armed beneath as 

 usual, the first two pairs of spines long, nearly as in Pardosa, the first 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



overlapping the second ; anterior tarsi with scopulse at sides ; a median 

 ventral setose band, the posterior tarei not at all scopulate being 

 simply setose. 



Septal part of guide of epigynum very broad, occupying much of 

 epigynal depression, narrowest at anterior end; the transverse arms 

 deeply divided, the median piece very narrow. (PL XVI, fig. 1.) 



Total length of small female, 7.4 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 

 4.3 mm.; greatest width, 3.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 11.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.3 mm. ; met., 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 10.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 10.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 15 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.6 mm. , met., 4.4 nrjn. 



Male. — Coloration in general as in female. The tibiae of first legs very 

 densely clothed for entire length with long black hairs which stand 

 out straight from joint; often of a greenish tinge. Legs longer than in 

 female; tibia + patella of first legs longer than cephalothorax; spine 

 of anterior tibia shorter than in female. 



Tibia of palpus fully as wide as long, sides convex, widest at middle, 

 much wider than the patella which is little shorter and widens from 

 base distally, its sides straight; tarsus wider than the tibia, of same 

 length as tibia and patella taken together-r Lunate area very small, 

 basal in position, its convexity external ; horn of conductor very long, 

 extending much beyond front margin of alveolus, bent at an angle 

 below its middle; principal tenaculum situated at middle, imequally 

 bidentate; lesser tenaculum bent upward at distal end, situated 

 below antero-exterior angle; auricle gradually attenuated apically. 

 (PI. XVI, fig. 5.) 



Length of large specimen, 8.6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.6 

 mm.; width, 3.9 mm. 



Length of leg 1, 14.2 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5 mm. ; met., 3.3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 13.3 mm. 



Length of leg III, 13.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 1.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5.5 mm. ; met., 5.3 mm. 



Syn.— 1875. Lycosa ocreata Hentz, Spid. of U. S., p. 33, PI. 4, fig. 5. 



1876. Lycosa ocreata, Keyserling, Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, Vol. XXVI, p. 611, 



Tab. VII, fig. 5 (male). 



. Lycosa rufa Keyserling, ibid., p. 613, Tab. VII, fig. 2 (female). 



1885. Lycosa ocreata, Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., VI, p. 491, PI. 



XLVIII, figs. 6, 6a, 66. 

 1890. Lycosa ocreata Hentz, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., XII, p. 562. 



. Lycosa rufa Keyserling, Marx, ibid., p. 563. 



. Lycosa ocreata, Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Soi. Phila., Vol. 42, p. 427. 



1892. Lycosa ocreata. Banks, op. cit., Vol. 44, p. 66. 



Lycosa ocreata, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W. II p. 160. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



. Lycoso ocreafa, Fox, ibid., p. 269. 



1893. Lycosa ocreata, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, I, p. 125. 



1896. Lycosa ocreata, Banks, op. cit., IV, p. 192. 



1898. Lycosa ocreata, Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., II, p. 330. 



1900. Lycosa ocreata, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 538. 



1902. Lycosa ocreata, Emerton, Connnon Sp. of I^. S. 



. Pardosa solivaga Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 574, 



PI. XXX, fig. 39. 



. Lycosa stonei Montgomery, ibid., p. 546, PI. XXIX, figs. 9 and 10. 



1904. Schizocosa ocreata, Chamberlin, Can. Ent., XXX^VI, p. 176. 

 . Lycosa ocreata, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 288. 



Type locality. — North Carolina. 



Known localities. — North Carolina!, Virginia, District of Columbia!, 

 Alabama, I-ouisiana, Ohio, Illinois, Kansas!, Connecticut, New York!. 



Hentz,in speaking of the occurrence of this species in North Carolina, 

 says that it "is not rare in meadows near water." It is found in 

 similar locations in New York State. Emerton states that in New 

 Haven, Cr)nn., it is "common in open woods among dead leaves. 

 Adult about June 1." 



Schizocosa saltatrix (Hentz), 1844. 



(Sub Lycosa, J. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., IV, p. 387, PI. XVII, fig. 7.) 

 Females. — Sides of cephalothorax deep brown, in life densely clothed 

 with black intermixed with brown pubescence, a wide median band of 

 usual form which is of reddish tinge anteriorly, extending forward 

 between eyes of third row and there geminated by a fine dark line 

 which extends back over pars cephalica towards dorsal groove; a supra- 

 marginal light line on each side which sometimes attains and some- 

 times does not attain the clypeus in front, the border below these 

 lateral stripes more or less broken by transverse light lines ; median and 

 lateral light stripes densely clothed with white intermixed with yellow- 

 ish pubescence. Chelicerce dark brown clothed with short yellowish 

 gray pubescence, which is not dense, and longer black bristles ; the 

 fringe of the superior margin of the furrow grayish. Endites yellowish 

 brown, lighter at tips. Labium brown, darker than endites. Sternum 

 beneath brown or reddish brown, the former often showing a lighter 

 median line or stripe, clothed in life with gray or whitish intermixed 

 with black pubescence. Coxce light brown to yellow, always paler than 

 the sternum. Legs yellow to light reddish-brown, with numerous nar- 

 row though often indistinct dark rings (occasionally quite absent), 

 which become fewer and often wider distally, the annuli of femora not 

 so heavy and not confluent as in ocreata. Nearly entire dorsum of 

 abdomen pale brown, often of a pale reddish in life, grayish from the 

 pubescence which is light brown intermixed with spots of gray, line 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



at base a dark lanceolate outline, forked at apex and followed by a 

 series of chevron-lines as in ocreata; these in life broadened behind by 

 lines of white hair, a black spot over each anterior lateral angle extend- 

 ing a short distance condad, and usually a triangular black spot more 

 or less constricting the median band towards the middle, the sides 

 elsewhere with many dark spots, in life streaked and spotted with 

 patches of white pubescence; venter pale brown to greenish yellowy 

 in life densely clothed with white pubescence, the tegimient often 

 marked along each side with a row of small black dots curved convexly 

 outward and converging posteriorly, a double median dark stripe 

 sometimes present behind epigyiumi. Epigj^num and spinnerets light 

 brown. 



Face moderate in height, less than two-thirds as high as the length of 

 the cheliceraB, the sides moderately rounded and standing outward 

 below, more so than in ocreata. 



Anterior row of eijes shorter than second by twice the diameter of a 

 lateral eye, well procurved. Anterior lateral eyes their diameter from 

 front margin of clypeus, slightly farther from eyes of second row less. 

 than their diameter apart; cephalothorax 4.5 times longer than quad- 

 rangle of posterior eyes. 



Chelicerce armed as usual, the middle tooth of inferior margin longest, 

 the third considerably reduced. Labium longer than broad (not quite 

 8.7) basal notch one-third the length of labium; sides of lal:»ium below 

 but slightly convex, subparallel, above straight or nearly so, distinctly 

 and considerably converging; anterior margin moderately wide, con- 

 curved at middle; gently convexly rounded at sides. 



Legs long and rather stout; the metatarsi of the fourth legs moder- 

 ately slender; two first pair of spines of anterior tibia? of moderate 

 length, rather shorter than in ocreata. Anterior tarsi and also except 

 basally being divided b}^ a wide median setose band. 



Septal piece of guide of epigynum of but moderate width, a little or 

 sometimes considerably wider anteriorly than posteriorly, the transverse 

 arms divided normally but little more than half way to their mesal 

 ends, the incisions connected by a furrow ; posterior divisions of trans- 

 verse arms depressed, on each side with distal end bent sharply forward. 

 (Pl.XVI, fig. 4.) 



Total length, 9 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.7 mm.; width, 

 3.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 12.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.5 mm. ; met., 2.3 nnii. 



Length of leg II, 11.7 mm. 

 ; Length of leg III, 11.5 mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



Length of leg IV, 15.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5 mm. ; met., 4.5 mm. 



Male. — Colored like female, the anterior legs not specially modified, 

 chelicerse clothed with yellow and greenish pubescence. Legs con- 

 siderably longer than in female, tibiae + patella of first pair clearly 

 longer than the cephalothorax. 



Tibiffi of palpus a little longer and much thicker than the patella, 

 nearly as wide as tarsus, sides more straight than in ocreata; tarsus as 

 long as two preceding joints together. Exposed part of lunate area 

 very small, situated at base and with convexity external; horn of 

 conductor broad at base, conical; principal tenaculum external from 

 middle, the lesser tenaculum at antero-exterior angle of conductor, 

 small, bsnt a little downward apically; auricle of lectal fold bluntly 

 and abruptly rounded apically. For other features see PI. XVI, fig. 2. 



Total length, 8.8 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.7 nun.; width, 

 3.9 mm. 



Length of leg I, 16 mm. ; tib. + pat.. 5.4 mm. ; met., 3.5 mm. 



Length of leg II, 13.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 13.4 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 19 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5.8 mm. ; met., 5.8 mm. 



Svn.— 1844. Lycosn venustula Hentz, J. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., IV, p. 392, PI. 



^XVIII, figs. 6and7. 

 1875. Lijcosa saltatrix Hentz, Sp. of U. S. (Burgess Ed.), p. 28, PI. 3, fig. 7. 



. Lycosa venustula Hentz, Sp. of U. S., p. 33, PI. ^, figs. 6, 7. 



1892. Lycosa humilis Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Vol. 44, p. 65, 



PI. Ill, fig. 36. 

 . Pardosa gracilis Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., Vol. 41 p. 70, 



PI. 1, fig. 50. 



1902. Li/cosa relucens Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 542, 

 PL 29, figs. 5, 6. 



. Lycosa charanoides ^lontgomer}', Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 544. 



. Lycosa verisimilis Montgomery, ibid., p. 548, PI. 29, figs. 11, 12. 



1903. Li/cosa charanoides Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 646, 

 PI. XXIX, fig. 7. 



. Li/cosa verisimilis Montgomery, ibid., p. 647. 



1904. Schizocosa venustula (Hentz), Chamberlin, Can. Ent., XXXVI, p. 176. 



. Lycosa charanoides Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 286. 



. Lycosa relucens Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 292. 



Type locality. — Alabama. 



Known localities. — Alabama, North Carolina!. Georgia!, Louisiana!, 

 Mississippi!, Texas!, District of Columbia!, Pennsylvania, Kansas!, 

 New York!. 



Hentz states that males of this species were common in Alabama in 

 April, but that he did not find females. So also, it may be noted, all 

 but a few of the specimens of rather extensive collections of this species, 

 made at several places in the South in the early spring of 1903, which I 

 have examined are males. The marking of the venter of the abdomen 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



figured by Hentz is strongly developed in some individuals, obscure or 

 absent in others. In size and general colorati(m this species is much 

 like ocreata, except as to the first legs of the males; and it has also 

 approximately the same geographical range. 



Schizocosa bilineata (Emerton), 1885. 



(Sub Pnrdosa, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., VI, p. ^96, PI. 40, figf?. 3 to 36.) 



Female. — Sides of cephalothornx dark reddish brown clothed with 

 deep brown pubescence. A wide median yellow stripe of the usual 

 form, darker, more reddish, in front of dorsal groove, extending be- 

 tween e3^es of third row as usual ; not geminated or only so for \-ery little 

 distance at front, usually a darker reddish line extending backward 

 from inner side of each eye of third row, the two uniting in front of 

 median groove ; the band clothed in gray and light brown pubescence 

 which is darker anteriorly; a narrow supramarginal stripe each side 

 reaching to clypeus in front, the dark band below this stripe 

 often more or less broken into spots by light cross-lines; some 

 light radiating cross-lines from median stripe; eyes surrounded with 

 black, the black extending across clypeus below each anterior 

 lateral eye. Chelicerce brown, a gray-brown pubescence and longer 

 black bristles. Endites yellow or light brown. Labium darker, brown 

 to blackish. Sternum light brown or yellow, a row of dark spots 

 each side of the middle, the two converging and meeting posteriorly, 

 the margins also sometimes darker, clothed with grayish pubescence. 

 Coxce of legs yellow. Legs yellow, somewhat darkened distally, 

 entirely without dark annuli or other markings. Abdomen above 

 light brown, enclosing at base a dark lanceolate outline ending at 

 middle, and with behind on each side a row of several black spots, 

 which are connected in pairs by narrow and often indistinct dark 

 transverse lines; the dorsum densely clothed with light brown or gray- 

 brown pubescence; a deep brown or black spot over each anterior 

 lateral angle, the sides elsewhere also dark from the many dark spots 

 which are often more or less arranged in rows, covered with brown 

 pubescence, intermixed with gray in spots and streaks ; venter yellow, 

 covered with gray pubescence, with normally four dark longitudinal 

 lines, all converging from furrow of lung slits toward the spinnerets. 

 Spinnerets yellowish or pale bro^vn. Epigyniim pale brown witli darker 

 margins. 



Face moderately high, a little more than two-thirds as high as the 

 length of the chelicerffi; sides scarcely convex, very steep, much as in 

 Pardosa. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



First row of eyes much shorter than the second, considerably pro- 

 curved; anterior median eyes hardly their radius apart, about same 

 distance from the lateral or but slightly farther; anterior lateral eyes 

 as large as median or very nearly so, rather less than their diameter 

 from front margin of clypeus, a little more than their diameter from 

 eyes of second row; eyes of second row not their diameter apart, quad- 

 rangle of posterior eyes one-fourth as long as the cephalothorax; 

 posterior eyes seen from above close to lateral margin of pars cephalica 

 as in Pardosa. 



Labium longer than wide in ratio of 4.6 : 4: basal notch one-third as 

 long as labium; sides rounded below, straight and moderately con- 

 verging above; anterior margin truncate, not at all curved. Legs of 

 moderate length, short, not very slender distally; rhetatarsus of fourth 

 legs as long as cephalothorax; tibia + patella of first leg shorter than 

 cephalothorax; spines of anterior tibia? moderately long and slender, 

 the first pair a little overlapping the second ; anterior tarsi with well 

 developed scopula w^hich are scarcely or but imperfectl}'' divided, the 

 posterior tarsi not at all scopulate, simply setose. 



Septal piece of guide of epigynimi broad, narrowest adjacent to 

 transverse arms, distinctly widening anteriorly; the anterior branch of 

 transverse arms of each side conspicuously enlarged distally, making 

 the total width of the transverse arms conspicuously less adjacent 

 to septum than extad. (PI. XVI, fig. 3.) 



Total length, 7.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.3 mm.; width 

 2.4 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 1.7 mm. 



Length of leg II, 8.2 mm. 



Length of leg III, 8.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 11.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 1.7 mm. 



Male. — General coloration like that of female; tibiae of first legs 

 densely clothed for entire length with a brush of long black hair as in 

 ocreata. Anterior lateral eyes but about half their diameter from front 

 margin of clypeus, smaller than median; eyes of second row scarcely 

 more than three-fourths their diameter apart. 



Tibia of palpus longer and broader than the patella, of nearly same 

 breadth from base to ape.x ; tibia + patella a little longer than tarsus ; 

 the latter clearly wider than the tibia (3.25 : 2.5) ; the alveolus relatively 

 large, the sides low and the bulb protruding; conductor high and 

 rounded above at the exterior end, but no distinct horn-shaped process ; 

 principal tenaculum rather small, bluntly rounded apically; auricle 

 of lectus very long, attaining or extending beyond front margin of 

 alveolus. 




220 PROCEEDIXGf^ OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Total length, 5.3 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.; width, 

 2.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.2 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 7.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 



Length of leg IV', 10.6; tib. + pat., 3.4 mm. ; met., 3.2 mm. 



Syn. — 1890. Lijcosa ocreata Stone, but nee Hentz, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



■ Pliila., Vol. 42, p. 427. 

 1892. Pardosa hilineata, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., Vol. 2, p. 161 

 1895. Pardosa hilineata, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. 3, p. 91 . 

 1902. LycQsa ocreata pulchra Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pbila., 



p. 540,'Pl. 29, figs. 3, 4. 

 1904. Schizocosn hilineata (Hentz), Chamberlin, XXXVI, p. 176. 

 . Lycosa hilineata Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., p. 290. 



Type locality. — Connecticut. 



Known localities. — Connecticut, New York!, New Jersey, Pennsyl- 

 vania, District of Columbia!, Illinois, Kansas!. 



The Genus LYCOSA Latreille, 1804. 

 (Xouv. Diet. Hist. Xat., 24, p. 135.) 



Entire body densely clothed with pubescence. Anterior tibia 

 armed beneath with three pairs of spines which are shorter than the 

 diameter of the joint or at most but little longer, the third pair 

 apical in position and smaller (PI. IX, fig. 8). Anterior eyes in a row 

 shorter than, of same length as or longer than the second, either pro- 

 curved or straight, or rarely a little recurved, eyes equidistant or with 

 the median a little farther from each other than from the lateral, the 

 lateral usually a little smaller than the median ; anterior lateral eyes 

 mostly their diameter or but little more from front margin of clypeus, 

 only rarely once and a half their diameter and never more, the same 

 distance or farther from eyes of second row ; eyes of second row large, 

 less than their diameter apart ; quadrangle of posterior eyes trapeziform, 

 evidently wider behind than in front. Lahimn longer than wide, or at 

 least never wider than long; either attenuated anteriorly or, less com- 

 monly,, with sides subparallel; basal excavation long, in most fully 

 one-third or more the total length (PL IX, figs. 7 and 9). Spin- 

 nerets short, the posterior ones not longer than the anterior, their 

 apical segment indistinct. Epigynum in typical forms with a strongly 

 developed guide, of which the septal piece is distinct and well formed 

 anteriorly, its transverse arms not divided ; openings of the spermatheca 

 protected, leading into narrowed channels, the lateral furrows from 

 these widening anteriorly, and at the front usually conspicuously wider 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



than behind (see, e.g., figs, of PI. XVII) ; in some the foveolse subcirciilar, 

 not thus elongate and widening conspicuously anteriorly (group 7>o- 

 chosa). Bulb of male palpus bearing at front of basal lobe a strongly 

 chitinized special fold or scopus which is essentially exterior in position ; 

 scopus presenting two processes ; viewed directly from below the inner 

 of these appears usually as a more or less retrorse, barb-like process, 

 but in some (group Trocliosa) longer and strongly salient, the basal 

 portion mostly more or less concealed by a basal fold which leaves 

 only the apical, exterior portion visible in ventral aspect; median rim 

 of conductor bearing one, or sometimes two, mostly slender and simple 

 tenacula; a lectal fold well developed, an auricle of varying size, l3ut 

 always smaller than in Schizocosa. See, e.g., figs, of PI. XVII. 



1832. Lycosa Hentz (ad. part, max.), Sill. J. Sci. and Arts, 21, p. 106. 



1842. Lycosa Hentz (ad. part, max.), J. Bost. Soc. N. H., 4, p. 228. 



1848. Lycosa (ad. part.), Arctosa and Trochosa, C. Koch, Die Arachniden, 



14, pp. 94-98. 

 1869-70. Tarentula and Trochosa Thorell, On European Spiders, p. 192. 



1875. Lycosa Hentz (ud. part, max.), Sp. U. S., pp. 11 and 24. 



1876. Lycosa Simon (ad. part, max.), Arcahn. Fr., 3, p. 233. 



. Tarentula and Trochosa Kevserling, Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, p. 610. 



1877. Tarentula Thorell, Bull. U. S. G. S. Terr., 3, p. 520. 

 1885. Lycosa Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 482. 



1890. Tarentula, Trochosa and ad. part. Lycosa Marx, Proe. U. S. N. M., 12. 



1898. Lycosa Simon (ad. part, max.), Hist. Nat. Araign., 2. 



1902. Lycosa (ad. part, max.), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 536. 



1903. Lycosa Comstock, Classif . of N. A. Spiders. 



1904. Lycosa Chamberlin, Can. Entomologist, Vol. XXXVI, p. 176. 



. Lycosa (ad. part.), Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 276. 



. Trochosa, Montgomery (ad. part), ibid., p. 300. 



Pars cephalica moderately elevated: in front truncate to more or 

 less obtuse; its lateral margins either a little converging anteriorly or 

 parallel; sides rounded outward below; face moderately high, trapezi- 

 form, evidently widening downward; in profile either vertical or 

 sloping forward from top to the base of chelicerae (PI. IX, fig. 5). 

 Quadrangle of posterior eyes in most but one-fifth or less the length 

 of the cephalothorax. Seen from above, the eyes of second and third 

 rows are much more than their diameter from lateral margins of 

 the pars cephalica (PI. IX, fig. 2). Chelicene long and robust, in 

 length at least one and one-half times the height of the face ; upper 

 margin with three teeth of the usual proportions, or the first one 

 rarely absent; lower margin with three stout teeth which are subequal, 

 or with the third sometimes reduced, or else with tw© stout eciual teeth 

 (PL IX, figs. 1 and 3). 



Legs robust, the distal joints usually not slender as in Pardosa. 

 Tarsi and usually also metatarsi of anterior legs scopulate and with the 

 15 




222 r PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



scopulse undivided (PI. IX, fig. 4), the posterior tarsi scopulate at 

 sides, being divided along the median ventral face by a setose or 

 setose and spiniilose band (PI. IX, fig. 6). Metatarsus of fourth legs 

 shorter than tibia + . patella of same pair in most cases, rarely the 

 metatarsus the longer more especially in males. Tibia + patella of 

 last legs sometimes a little longer than and sometimes of same length 

 as or, as in the great majority of cases, shorter than the cephalothorax. 



Spiders of large or medium size, including the largest forms of the 

 family. There is much variation in coloration, although in the several 

 groups of species the same system or pattern of markings is more or less 

 evident. Most of the larger North American species show a decided 

 tendency to have the ventral surface of the body black in whole or in 

 considerable part, such seeming indeed to be the tendency in large 

 Lycosidce everywhere. The body of the males is in most cases smaller 

 than that of the females, with the legs proportionately much longer 

 and with their several joints of proportionately different lengths. 



Lycosas make a white spherical cocoon which only exceptionally 

 shows a seam about its equator, the tissue being normally smooth and 

 homogeneous. The smaller species carry the cocoons about as do the 

 Pardosas, which they resemble also in building no retreats. The larger 

 species, however, during the cocooning season are sedentary. Prac- 

 tically all of these larger species make nests or burrows of some kind, 

 these varying greatly in form and depth. Some of the burrows are 

 deep and have the openings surrounded by a rampart or turret 

 formed of .sticks and leaves or of bits of dirt cemented together with 

 silk {e.g., fatifera, arenicola, carolinensis) . Other species excavate only 

 shallower pits or nests beneath stones or logs, and surround these 

 excavations with a low rampart of earth or sticks, etc., and which 

 they may occupy only during the cocooning season (e.g., helluo). 



The genus Lycosa as here considered is divisible into a number of 

 groups ; but for the most part these are found more or less closely to 

 intergrade when a sufficient number of species are taken into considera- 

 tion. The most aberrant and distinct of these groups, so far as concerns 

 the American species, is that containing many of the forms referred 

 to Trochosa C. K. {avara Keys., gosiuta new, cinerea Fab., ruhicunda 

 Keys., etc.). The material representing this group that I have been 

 able to study (American forms only) has not been sufficiently extensive 

 and complete to enable me to determine fully the characteristics and 

 value of the group, and therefore the propriety or advantageousness 

 of its separation generically. The forms studied differ from typical 

 Lycosas among other features in having the epigyna as \\\(\q as or 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



wider than long with the guide more or less strongly arched at middle, 

 and with the lateral depression, relativel}^ wide and short, tending to 

 subcircular; the lateral ridges commonly low at middle (PI. XX, 

 fig. 2. avara; PI. XX, fig. 6, cinerea). In the male palpal organ the 

 proximal limb of scopus is more strongl}- developed, being more or 

 less elongate and bent out vertically as a conspicuously salient 

 process (PI. XX, fig. 1, avara). Some but not all species in the group 

 have the stout spine, normally present alcove at proximal end of the 

 tibiae of the third and fourth legs in Lycosa, replaced by a very elon- 

 gate, basally stout bristle clearly stouter at base than surrounding 

 haii"s, spine-like, but distally gradually extending into a long fine awn. 

 Through some forms of this group a close approach is made to Allocosa, 

 which may ultimately have to be withdrawn into the present genus. 



Key to Species of Lycosa. 



1. Venter of abdomen black in front of genital furrow and in a spot at 



base of spinnerets, elsewhere pale brown, . coloradensis Bks. 

 Not so, . . . . 2. 



2. Lower margin of furrow of chelicera armed with but two teeth, . 3. 

 liOwer margin of furrow armed with three teeth, 4. 



3. Anterior lateral eyes their diameter from front margin of clypeus, 



kocJdi (Keys.). 



Anterior lateral eyes once and one-half their diameter from front 



margin of clypeus heanii Em. 



4. No spine at all above on tibiae of legs III and IV, 5. 



Spine at middle or both at middle and at proximal end on tibiae 



of legs III and IV, 6. 



5. Dorsum of abdomen with a distinct median dark band along its 



entire length ; light median band on cephalothorax, arenicola Sc. 



Dorsum of abdomen without such a dark band; cephalothorax 



without distinct markings, fatifera Htz. 



6. No true stout spine at base above on tibiae of legs III and IV, 



replaced by a basally stout, apically slender and pointed, 



elongate bristle, 7. 



A true robust spine at base above on tibiae of legs III and IV, 10. 



7. Tibia -1- patella of legs I^^ less than 3 mm. long, floridiana (Bks). 

 Tibia + patella of legs IV near 4 mm. long or longer, .... 9. 



9. Eyes upon a black patch ; legs not marked with dark annuli, 



cinerea Fab. 

 Eyes not upon a black patch ; legs marked with dark annuli, 



rubicunda. 



10. Cephalothorax with a light median longitudinal stripe which is very 



narrow or line-like anteriorly and which extends forward to or 



between eyes of second row, 11. 



Cephalothorax either without a median band or with a band 

 which is as wide or nearly as wide as the third eye row, . , 18. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^laV, 



11. Legs strongly banded with black, or if, annulations are indistinct, 



legs entirely black, _ ... 12. 



Legs yellow or light brown, not at all annulate or with a few dark 

 markings on femora, 13. 



12. Anterior row of eyes as wide as or a little wider than the second, 



aspersa H. 

 Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second, . . . ripariciB.. 



13. Males, 14. 



Females, 18. 



14. Cephalothorax near 10 mm. in length (leg IV not more than 3.25 



times as long as cephalothorax), .... permunda Chamb. 



Cephalothorax under 7.5 mm. in length (leg IV 3.7 or more 



times as long as cephalothorax), 15. 



15. Tibia + patella I longer than tibia + patella IV, . grandis Bks. 

 Tibia + patella I shorter than tibia + patella IV, . helluo W. 



16. Leg IV less than three times the length of cephalothorax, 



permunda Chamb. 

 Leg IV more than three times the length of cephalothorax, . .17. 



17. Abdomen beneath and the sternum immaculate pale yellow, 



clothed with yellow hair, grandis Bks. 



Sternum mostly Ijlack or nearly so and clothed largely with black 

 hair; abdomen beneath mostly with numerous dark dots and 

 sometimes nearly black, helluo W. 



18. Dorsum of abdomen marked along its entire length by a distinct 



median dark band, 19. 



Abdomen not so marked, 20. 



19. Sternum yellow or light brown; dorsal dark band of abdomen, 



usually with margins behind dentate or else enclosing along each 

 side a series of small oblicjue light spots, . . . scuiidata H. 

 Sternum black; dorsal band of abdomen with margins always 

 straight and not dentate or enclosing light spots behind, 



punctulata H. 



20. Cephalothorax entirely without light bands or spots either at 



middle or along sides, 2L 



Cephalothorax with at least a median lighter band or spot, . 22. 



21. Sternum and coxae of legs and usually entire venter of abdomen 



black ; both ends of tibiae of legs beneath black, . carolinensis W. 



Sternum light to reddish brown, not black; venter of abdomen 



not black either in whole or in part, quinaria. 



22. Tibiae of fourth legs black at both ends beneath, other tibiae and 



legs elsewhere luimarked excepting faint browm cross-bars on 

 femora (sternum and venter of abdomen entirely black), 



apicata Bks. 

 Not so, 23. 



23. Legs pale brown and entirely without darker markings; venter 



behind genital furrow black, rarely a pale central spot, lenta H. 

 Legs similar, but patellae and often distal end of tibiae black 

 beneath ; anterior femora above and posteriorly with fine 

 longitudinal dark lines, posterior femora with faint dark spots; 

 venter as for preceding, . . . lenta var. haltimoriana (K-)- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



Not as for lenta or its variety, 24, 



24. All tibiee black at both ends beneath and the-femora black beneath 



at distal end ; large, the cephalothorax 10 mm. or more in length, 



carolinensis W. 

 Tibia and femora not banded thus at ends only beneath ; cephalo- 

 thorax less than 10 mm. long, 25. 



25. Females 26. 



Males, 34. 



26. Lateral depressed areas of epigynum wide, subcircular, not elongate 



in the usual way, 27. 



Epigynum not so, 28. 



27. Guide bearing a short blunt median process posteriorly; ends of 



transverse arms not extending forwards freely to or beyond 

 middle of lateral-depression or fovea (PI. XIX, fig. 2), 



avara (Keys.). 

 No such short median process posteriorly on guide; ends of 

 transverse arms of guide extending forward uncovered to beyond 

 middle of depressed fovea (PI. XIX, fig. 4), 



avara xslt. gosiuta new. 



28. Guide of epigynum inversely T-shaped, the transverse arms 



relatively slender, 29. 



Guide enlarged at posterior end, but not inversely T-shaped or 

 anchor-shaped, 33. 



29. Septum of guide strongly widening from base of transverse arms 



to anterior end, where it extends entirely or nearly across the 



median depression, 30. 



Not so, 31. 



30. Confining walls of epigynum very wide anteriorly (PI. XXI, fig. 3), 



pratensis Em. 

 Not so, the epigynum much like that of helluo (PL XVII, fig. 1), 



floridana Bks, 



31. Transverse piece of guide extending entirely across or almost 



entirely across epigynum behind, some longer than median 

 piece, scarcely confined by side ridges at ends (PL XVIII, fig. 4), 



frond icola Em. 



Transverse piece of guide not so long, distinctly confined by ridges 



at ends, 32. 



32. Septum widest at its anterior end ; lateral walls thick ; epigynum as 



a whole rather wider than long mod esta Keys. 



Not so, septum widest toward middle part of its length, trans- 

 verse arms usually excavated at ends above; epigynum as a 

 whole roughly triangular, being much narrowed anteriorly (PL 

 XVII, fig. 3)^ . erratica H. 



33. Enlarged end portion of guide roughly triangular in shape with the 



apex behind (PL XIX, fig. 8) piciilis Em. 



Expanded end of guide not so shaped, widest behind, where it is 

 truncate (PL XXI, fig. 7), gidosa W. 



34. Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second 35. 



- Anterior row of eyes as long as or longer than the second, . 40. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



35. Median pale band of cephalothorax strongly widening anteriorly, 



passing each side of the eyes and reaching to the clypeus, the 



full width of which it embraces, albohastata Em, 



Median pale band of cephalothorax not thus in front wider than 

 and enclosing eye area, 36. 



36, Embolus curving out ventralwards and forward, resting only its 



apical part obliquely across the auricle (PI. XXI, fig, 4), 



gulosa W, 

 Not so, . , , 37. 



37. Median pale stripe strongly bulging between third eye row and 



anterior end of dorsal groove, being much wider than third eye 

 row; at front of furrow abruptly narrowed to the widtli of 

 third eye row, its sides then subparallel to posterior declivity, 



pictilis Em. 

 Median pale band of cephalothorax not so formed, , , , 38, 



38, Dorsum of abdomen with a median light band extending to spin- 



nerets behind, where it ends in a point, enclosing at base a dark 



lanceolate mark, or with the latter sometimes absent, crratica H. 



No such distinctly limited light band on dorsum of abdomen, 39. 



39, Venter mostly black, modesta (K,). 



Venter brown to yellowish, avara (K.), 



40. Venter with a wide irregularly edged black l^and extending from 



epigynum to spinnerets and sometimes embracing entire width 



of abdomen, frondicola Em, 



Venter with no such broad black band, , , , . prate^isis Em. 



Lycosa helluo Walckenaer, 1837. 

 (Insect, Apt., I, p. 337.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax deep brown, a narrow light colored median 

 pale stripe which anteriorly becomes line-like and extends forward 

 between the eyes, this median stripe in life covered with light brown 

 pubescence which continues as a median line between the eyes and to 

 the front margin of the clypeus; in most a short curved light hne 

 behind each eye of third row and close to the median line; a wider 

 similarly colored and clothed light supramarginal stripe on each side, 

 this stripe usually not distinguishable in front of third eye row; eyes 

 enclosed in black; dark parts of cephalothorax clothed with brown and 

 black hair intermixed, the black most abundant over, and giving its 

 deeper color to, the upper parts of the sides along the bordere of the 

 median pale stripe and the area about the ej^es. Chelicerw black or 

 brownish black, the lateral condyles red at base and black below; 

 clothed with a short yellowish pubescence with some longer, gray- 

 black bristles intermixed, the latter being more numerous distally and 

 forming the dense fringe along the superior margin of the furrow. 

 Labium and endites black, brown at distal ends. Sternum and coxce 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



of legs beneath black or brownish black, subdensely clot lied with 

 blackish hair, the longer ones of which appear lighter distally. Legs 

 yellow or light brown, of usually a distinctly greenish tinge, becoming 

 darker with age; femora paler beneath; in adults in most cases entirely 

 without any dark annuli or other markings or with some narrow, 

 mostly faint darker-cross marks on the femora above (for young speci- 

 mens vid. note infra.) ; clothed wdth short appressed fine hairs of yellow, 

 and longer black hairs; scopula3 black. Abdomen dark brown; above 

 with a black median basal mark which widens from its base to its middle, 

 where it projects on each side in a pointed angle or line, and then 

 narrow^s to its apex which bifurcates, sending a narrow pointed line 

 caudo-laterally on each side, the margins of the stripe deeper colored 

 than central portion; a short distance back of the apex of the l^asal 

 mark is a black angular or chevron-shaped transverse mark ; and following 

 this behind over the posterior part of dorsum is a series of light brown 

 or yellow chevron-lines, each of which terminates at each of its ends in 

 a circular spot of the same color; each light chevron-line bordered in 

 front by a black line of similar form; lateral part of dorsum mixed 

 black and brown, a large black spot over each antero-lateral angle* 

 sides mostly dark brown with many small spots of yellow and of black; 

 lower parts of sides and the venter brown to yelloAv with numerous 

 small dots of black, less commonly immaculate, and at other times 

 almost entirely black; abdomen densely clothed with black and yellow 

 hair intermixed, the one predominating on the dark markings, the other 

 on the light. Spinnerets bro^vn. Epigynum dark reddish brown. 



Face rather low, its sides convex and strongly oblique; pare cephalica 

 not elevated above pars thoracica, the dorsal line but little sloping 

 from the third eye row to the posterior declivity, not depressed at 

 middle. 



Anterior row of eyes nearly as long as the second, a little procurved ; 

 anterior median eyes distinctly larger than the lateral, less than their 

 radius apart, about an equal distance from the lateral eyes; anterior 

 lateral eyes separated from the front margin of the clypeus by once and 

 a third their diameter, or little more, the same distance from eyes of 

 second row; eyes of second row three-fourths their diameter apart; 

 cephalothorax 5.5 to 6 times as long as the quadrangle of posterior eyes. 

 Chelicerce with margins of fiu'row armed as usual, the first tooth of the 

 inferior margin often with its lower part concealed by a marginal keel 

 extending from base of claw. Labium longer than wide (9.5 :S.75); 

 basal excavations one-third the total length; sides rounded below, 

 above nearly straight, converging to the front margin which is widely 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF . J^ [May, 



truncate or slightly incurved mesally. Legs long and stout, tibia + 

 patella of fourth legs distinctly longer than the cephalothorax, the 

 latter being a little longer than tibia + patella of first legs ; tarsi of first 

 legs a little curved, those of second legs more slightly so; patella of 

 fii-st legs unarmed ; patella of second legs with a single spine on anterior 

 side; spines of anterior tibi£e as usual; both tarsi and metatarsi of three 

 anterior pairs of legs scopulate; scopulfe of third and fourth pairs 

 divided. 



Epigynum somewhat oval in outline, with posterior end truncate; 

 guide inversely T-shaped, the septal part enlarging at or above its 

 middle; guide plates widest on transverse arms, narrowing and fading 

 out at middle of septum ; furrows broad anteriorly, narrowed strongly 

 behind by the abrupt bulging in of the lateral tubercles. (PI. X\'II, 



fig. 1.) 



Total length, 19.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 8.2 mm.; width, 

 6.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 22.8 mm. ; tib. 4- pat., 8 mm. ; met., 4.5 mm. 



Length of leg II, 20.2 mm. 



Length of leg III, 19.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 27.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 9 mm. ; met., 7.8 mm. 



Male. — Much smaller than the female with relatively longer legs. 

 Cephalothorax above and legs nearly as in the female or lighter. Ster- 

 num usually more brownish, often divided by a median light line; 

 clothed with long light gray hair. Coxce of legs beneath light brown 

 like the other joints of legs. Abdomen colored above as in the female; 

 lower portion of sides and the venter lighter yellow or grayish bro^^-n, 

 immaculate or nearly so. Palpi yellowish brown, the tarsus darker. 



^■'iewed from above, the tibia is scarcely longer than the patella and 

 is of the same thickness ; the tarsus equalling the length of the two pre- 

 ceding joints together; apical portion of tarsus long, seen from below 

 very gradually attenuated, not acute apically. Tenaculum long and 

 slender, projecting ecto-distally, a smaller but similar secondary tenacu- 

 lum mesalh' from this and commonly in part or whole concealed. For 

 further structure of bulb see PI. XVII, fig. 2. 



Total length, 11.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5.7 mm.; width, 

 4.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 17.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 6.1 mm. ; met., 4.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 15.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 13.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 21.2 mm. ; tib, + pat., 6.6 mm. ; met., 6.1 mm. 



Syn. — 1837. ILycosa sayi Walckenaer, Insect. Apt., 1, p. 337. 

 1846. Lycosa babingtoni Blackwall, Ann. and Mag. N. H., 17, p. 30. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



1S4S. iLjicosa vajra (C. Koch), Die Arachn., 14, p. 135, PI. 490, fig. 1365. 

 1876. Trochosa helvipes Keyserling, Yerh. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, PI. 7, figs. 



35, 36, and PI. 8, fig. 37. 

 18S5. Lycosa nidicola Emerton, Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 482, PI. 46, 



figs. 1 to Id. 



1890. Lijcosa bahingtoni, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 561. 

 Lycosa hellvo, Marx, ibid., p. 562. 

 Lycosa nidicola, Marx, ibid., p. 562. 

 Lycosa nidicola, Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 42, p. 424. 



1891. Lycosa babingtoni, Banks, Ent. News, 2, p. 193. 



1892. Lycosa nidicola. Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 44, p. 64. 

 . Lycosa similis Banks, ibid., p. 64, PI. II, fig. 30. 



. Lycosa crudelis Banks, ibid., p. 66, PI. 3, fig. 37. 



. Lycosa nidicola, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 160. 



. Lycosa nidicola, Fox, ibid., p. 269. 



1895. Lycosa babingtoni. Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 3, p. 91. 



. Lycosa babingtoni, Banks, Ent. News, 6, p. 205. 



1898. Lycosa babingtoni, Banks, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., p. 268. 



1900. Lycosa babingtoni. Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 538. 



1902. Lycosa hellno, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 586. 



. Lycosa nidicola Emerton, Common Sp. U. S., p. 69, figs. 166, 167. 



. Lycosa nidicola, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 559, 



PI. 29, figs. 23, 24. 



Type locality. — New York. 



Known localities. — Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island!, New 

 Hampshire!, New York!, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Dis- 

 trict of Columbia!, Alabama, North Carolina, Georgia, Louisiana, 

 Texas!, Mississippi, Ohio, Indiana!, Illinois!, Iowa!, Kansas!, Colorado, 

 Utah!. 



One of the commonest and most widely distributed species, which is 

 subject to much variation in size and in depth of coloration. Because 

 of the abundance of this species it will be well to indicate the color 

 differences presented by partly grown individuals. These have the 

 sternum yellow with a narrow black stripe each side of middle line, 

 the two converging and uniting in front of posterior margin, and also 

 a row of small black dots along each lateral margin; the legs with 

 numerous annulations which are present on all joints except tarsi, with 

 sometimes indications of a median one on these; cephalothorax and 

 abdomen above nearly as in adults; venter yellow with black dots 

 minute. 



The female L. nidicola builds a shallow excavation or nest under logs 

 and stones along roadsides and in the woods. She hues the nest 

 with silk and often surrounds it with a low rampart of earth or of sticks 

 and leaves. They are frequently met with in these nests with their 

 cocoons in early summer. 



Lycosa grandia Banks, 1894. 



(J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, p. 49.) 

 Female. — Coloration and pattern of markings as in helluo, but lighter 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEIMY OF [May, 



throughout. Median pale stripe of cephalothorax clothed with golden 

 brown pubescence with some gray behind and brown at middle part 

 intermixed; sides clothed with brown and golden brown pubescence 

 intermixed; lateral pale stripes with mostly light gray pubescence, 

 less of brown. Legs clear yellowish, the two first pairs of legs darker, 

 more reddish brown distally. Sternum and coxae of legs beneath 

 j^ellowish brown, like legs, clothed, like the legs also, with grayish 

 yellow intermixed with longer black hairs. Abdomen much lighter 

 than in typical Eastern form of helluo; dorsum with the typical mark- 

 ings, but these paler and less distinct; the venter pale yellow without 

 markings of any kind, clothed with yellow pubescence. Epigyniim 

 reddish black. Spinnerets pale brown. 



Structure and proportions and the relations of the eyes as in helluo. 

 Epigynum agreeing in detail with that of helluo (PI. XYII, fig. 1). A 

 specimen from Baj a California gave the following measurements: 



Total length, 24 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 10.2 mm. ; width, 

 8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 25.9 mm. ; tib. + pat., 9.8 mm. ; met., 5 mm. 



Ijength of leg II, 24 mm. 



Length of leg III, 23.7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 33.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 11 mm. ; met., 9.6 mm. 



Male. — lighter than the female. Cheliccra pale yellow with light 

 gray or whitish pubescence which is moderately long. Palpi pale 

 yellow, the tarsus not darker; tarsus clothed with dense Avhite hair, 

 which occurs also less densely upon the tibia; the patella and femur 

 clothed with yellow hair with some white more sparsely intermixed. 

 Sternum and coxce of legs pale yellow, these and the legs clothed with 

 light yellow gray pubescence with some black hairs intermixed. Abdo- 

 men with basal dark mark as usual ; middle region of dorsum yellowish, 

 clothed with gray-yellow and brown pubescence intermixed, with on 

 each side behind a row of about six spots of white hair; venter yellow 

 with hght gray pubescence. 



Tibia + patella of first legs longer than tibia + patella of fourth 

 ones. Tarsus of palpus shorter than the two preceding joints together. 

 Structure of palpal organ agreeing in detail with that of helluo (PL 

 XVII, fig. 2). 



A male from Lower California gave the following measurements : 



Total length, 14.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 7.6 mm. ; width, 

 6.1 mm. 



Length of leg I, 27.2 mm. ; tib. + pat., 9.8! mm. ; met., 6.3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 22.9 mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



Length of leg III, 22.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 30.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 9.2 ! mm. ; met., 8.8 nmi. 



S\ni. — 1895. Lycosa grandis Banks, Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., 8. 

 1898. Lycosa grandis Banks, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci. 



Type locality. — Colorado. 



Known localities. — Colorado; Baja California!. 



So far as I have determined, tibia + patella of fourth legs of the male 

 in Eastern specimens of helluo is longer than tibia + patella of first pair 

 or sometimes, iii large specimens, of the same length, whereas the 

 reverse is seen to be true in grandis. But as the relative lengths of 

 these two pairs of joints varies in helluo and apparently with the size 

 of the individual, the increased relative length of tibia + patella of the 

 first pair, and in fact of the entire first leg, may not be of much signifi- 

 cance. The agreement between helluo and grandis is thus close excepting 

 in color and size, and it might therefore be more proper to place the 

 latter as a variety under the former. 



Lycosa floridana Banks. 



(Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XXIII, p. 72.) 



Female.— Cephalothorax with a median light colored longitudinal 

 band which anteriorly is geminated and is nearly as wide as the eye 

 area, with on each side a narrow supramarginal light brown stripe 

 which is discontinuous, being broken into four or more parts. Cheli- 

 cerw dark reddish brown. Sternum brown, with a black mark along 

 middle. Legs brown, with the distal joints darker, blackish brown; 

 femora above with some rather obscure black marks. Cox(e brown, all 

 with a black, very distinct line along front face. Abdomen above 

 black; sides and lateral part of venter blackish over a yellow ground, 

 mixed yellow and black; venter yellow. 



Cephalothorax low, its dorsal line straight and but slightly slanting 

 from the third eye row to the posterior dechvity, which is short and 

 steep. Face in height more than half the length of the chelicerae, 

 sides slanting moderately outward from above downward. 



Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second, rather strongly pro- 

 curved. 



Chelicerce armed as usual. 



Epigynum relatively small, .8 or .9 mm. long; in form and structure 

 very similar to that of helluo, but the septum of guide broader and 

 more strongly expanded anteriorly, where it almost extends across the 

 entire depressed area. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



Length, 14.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 6 mm. ; width, 4.3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 13 mm. ; tib. + pat., 6 mm. ; tarsus, 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 11.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 11 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 15.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7 mm. ; tarsus, 3 mm. 



Locality. — Florida !. 



Lycosa apicata Banks, 1904. 



(Journ. X. Y. Ent. Soc, p. 114, PI. V, fig. 13.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax brown, marked with a median paler band as 

 wide anteriorly as the third eye row, between the eyes of which it 

 extends in a tongue-like process forward, this narrower process in 

 life clothed with white hair; the median band constricted at the dorsal 

 groove and extending from there down the posterior declivity as 

 narrower stripe; on each side beginning mesally from the eye of the 

 third row a dark line extends posteriorly through the median pale 

 band to the point of its constriction where it unites with the dark 

 of the sides; a narrow, anteriorly interrupted, supramarginal pale 

 stripe with dentate margin. Chelicene deep chestnut or reddish black. 

 Labiimi and endites reddish black, the former a little paler apically. 

 Sternum and coxce of legs beneath black. Legs light brown; the 

 femora with darker markings which are more distinct on the posterior 

 paire; tibise of fourth legs black at each end beneath, the metatarsi 

 sometimes also darkened distally; legs elsewhere without evident 

 markings. Abdomen above light brown or yellowish; a dark, black- 

 edged, spear-shaped mark which is laterally dentate and blunt or 

 forked at its posterior end; the spear-mark followed posteriorly with 

 a series of dark chevron-shaped transverse marks, which may be 

 separated by corresponding transverse marks of white hair, the 

 chevrons commonly confluent laterally with dark mottlings at the 

 sides and thereby with each other, in other cases confluent mesally 

 with each other and with the basal mark; sides of abdomen above 

 with spots and streaks of brown, pale below; venter entirely black. 



Cephalothorax highest at the third eye row, the dorsal line as seen 

 in profile from there a little sloping and nearly straight to the posterior 

 declivity. Face relatively low, its sides moderately slanting outward 

 from above below. 



Anterior row of eyes clearly shorter than the second, a little pro- 

 curved; anterior median eyes less than their radius apart, about the 

 same distance from the lateral eyes, which are smaller than the median. 

 Eyes of the second row less than their diameter apart. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Patellae of first and second pairs of legs armed in front with a short 

 spine. Tibia + patella of first legs about equalling the cephalothorax 

 in length; tibia + patella of fourth legs clearly longer than the cephalo- 

 thorax and also longer than the metatarsus of same legs. 



Chelicene armed as usual, the three teeth of lower margin stout. 



The cpigynum having the general form and structure of that of L. 

 helluo (PI. XVII, fig. 1); septum widest anteriorly, its sides nearly 

 straight ; transverse arms rather thick. 



Total length, 13.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 6.3 mm.; width, 

 4.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 19.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 6.2 mm. ; met., 3.8 mm. 



Length of leg II, 16.2 mm. 



Length of leg III, 16.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 23.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7 mm. ; met., 6.7 mm. 



Male. — Coloration as for the female; but the markings more distinct. 



Palpal organ of the general type of that of L. helluo (PI. XVII, 

 fig. 2). The auricula conspicuous, more strongly chitinized than 

 usual, dark in color, turned outward apically. Principal tenaculum 

 relatively shorter, and more outwardly directed than in helluo. 



Total length, 13 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 6.8 mm.; width, 

 5 mm. 



Length of leg I, 20.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7 mm. ; met., 4.8 mm. 



Length of leg II, 19.1 mm. 



Length of leg III, 19.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 25.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7.8 mm. ; met., 7.6 mm. 



S3T1. — 1904. Lycosa antelucana Montgomerj', Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila. 

 p. 282, PI. XVIII, figs. 5 and 6. 



Type localities. — Arizona and Texas. 



Known localities. — Arizona!, Texas!, New Mexico. 



The descriptions above are from type specimens. 



Lyoosa permtinda Chamberlin, 1904. 

 (Can. Entomologist, p. 286.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax dark brown; a pale narrow median line 

 extending backward from first eye row, widening abruptly in front of 

 dorsal groove, and then gradually narrowing to a point at posterior 

 margin; a broad light-colored marginal stripe on each side not extending 

 forward farther than the third eye row, its upper margin coarsely 

 dentate, the lower border broken by a few dark dots, but not limited 

 below by a continuous dark line or stripe at margin. Chelicerce black. 

 Labium and endites dark brown. Sternum dark brown, with a yellow 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



median line. Legs brown, darker distally; beneath unmarked, but 

 having a number of dark cross-bars above on femora and posterior tibise. 

 Abdomen alcove dark, having the usual lanceolate mark at base, followed 

 by a series of light colored, chevron-formed transverse lines, each ending 

 on each side in a light dot; sides yellowish brown, densely spotted with 

 black; venter also yellowish brown, more sparse^ covered with smaller 

 black dots, much as in helluo. 



Length, 22 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 10.7 mm. ; width, 8 mm. 

 Length of leg I^', 30.3 mm. 



Male. — Colored nearly like the female, but paler throughout. Mar- 

 ginal stripes of cephalothorax not interrupted below by dark spots. 

 Legs clear brown, without any cross-marking on any joints. Palpi 

 yellowish brown excepting tarsus, which is black. 



Length, 20 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 10 mm.; width, 7.5 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 32.4 mm. 



Locality. — Kansas !. 



In general appearance the female resembles helluo, but is easily 

 separated by structure of epigynum and by various other characters. 

 The male is conspicuously different in its palpal organ and in size, 

 proportion and structure from those of related species. 



Lycosa riparia Hentz, 1844. 



(.J. Bost. Soc. N. H., IV, p. 289.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax with a narrow median light band, widest at 

 dorsal groove, narrowing anteriorly and continuing as a distinct line 

 between eyes to the clypeus; median band formed of grayish-yellow 

 pubescence; tegument of cephalothorax elsewhere deep brown or 

 reddish brown, black over eye area, clothed with black pubescence, 

 intermixed with fewer yellowish or l^rownish-gray hairs which are more 

 abundant below but form no distinct band; rufous hairs about the 

 eyes and on the face. Chelicerce black with rufous pubescence over 

 upper half and black pubescence below. Labium and endites black, 

 brown at tips. Sternum and coxcb of legs beneath black with longer 

 and stiff black hairs and some short gray pubescence. Ground color 

 of tegument of legs dark reddish brown; the tarsi and metatarsi darker, 

 all joints except these two with distinct light and dark rings, the 

 latter being broader, clothed respectively with grayish-brown and 

 black pubescence, tarsi and metatai-si appearing entirely black because 

 of black scopulae and black pubescence, the shorter brown hairs being 

 few. Abdomen above grayish brown, with scattered minute spots of 

 black pubescence; a number of black chevron-marks behind and in 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



front an indistinct outline of a lanceolate mark behind a chevron which 

 is commonly divided mesally into two triangular marks; near the middle 

 of lanceolate outline on each side, the dark line more strongly im- 

 pressed as a black triangular mark \\ ith apex forward ; a light spot 

 laterally from upper part of basal mark; behind on each side a series of 

 light spots which may be indistinct; front face of abdomen and antero- 

 lateral angles black; sides dark above, having black pubescence 

 intermixed with brown in fine spots and streaks; in middle the 

 sides are lighter, the brown pubescence being in larger spots. The 

 venter and commonly the lower part of sides black, but, especially at 

 sides, with spots of brown; often brown pubescence in four narrow lines 

 on venter, converging from lung slits to spinnerets, divide the black 

 of venter into three contiguous bands, much as in aspersa. Spin- 

 7ierets brown, Epigynum black or reddish black. 



Face moderate in height, hardly one-half the length of the massive 

 chelicerae. Cephalothorax above nearly straight and horizontal or but 

 little convex between third row of eyes and posterior declivity; the 

 posterior declivity short, only posterior end of dorsal groove being 

 upon it; sides rather strongly bulging behind; sides of face convex and 

 strongly slanting. 



First row of eyes straight or very nearly so, shorter than second row; 

 anterior median eyes distinctly larger than the lateral, less than their 

 radius apart, closer to the lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes removed 

 from front margin of clypeus and from eyes of second row by about 

 once and a half their diameter; anterior median eyes less than their 

 diameter from eyes of second row ; eyes of second row less than their 

 diameter apart (about three-fourths); quadrangle of posterior ej'es 

 about one-fifth as long as the cephalothorax. 



Legs long ; tibia + patella of fourth legs a little longer than cephalo- 

 thorax and also longer than metatareus of same legs ; tibia + patella of 

 first pair of same length as cephalothorax ; patella of first legs imarmod, 

 patella of second armed anteriorly with a single spine; tibia and meta- 

 tarsus armed as usual; scopulse on anterior tai-si and metatarsi as usual; 

 scopulse of posterior tarsi divided by setose bands as usual. 



For form epigynum see PI. XVII, fig. 5. 



Total length, 18.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 9 mm.; width, 

 6.9 mm. 



Length of leg I, 24.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 9 mm. ; met., 8.5 nun. 



Length of leg II, 22.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 21.4 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 29.6 mm. ; tib. -|- pat., 9.3 mm. ; met., 8.5 mm. 



Male. — For structure of palpal organ see PL XVII, fig. 6. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^laj, 



Syn.— 1875. Lycosa ripnria Hentz, Sp. U. S., p. 31, PI. 3, figs. 13, 15. 



. Lycosa riparia, Cragin, Contrib. to Ivnowl. Araclin., Kansa.s Bull., 



Washburn, Coll. 1, No. 4, p. 146. 

 1890. Lxjcosa riparia, Marx. Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 563. 

 1900. Lycosa Hparia, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 539. 



Type localities. — North Carolina, Alabama. 



Habitat. — North Carolina!, South Carolina, Alabama!, Georgia!, 

 Louisiana!, Mississippi, Virginia, West Virginia, District of Columbia!, 

 Kansas, Texas. 



"This common spider is aquatic in its habits, ahvays found near or 

 on water, and diving with ease under the surface when threatened or 

 pursued" (Hentz), 



Lycosa aspersa Hentz, 1844. 



(Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., IV, p. 389, PI. XVII, figs. 11, 12.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax dark reddish brown, blackish about the 

 eyes; a lighter uneven-edged marginal band on each side, and a similarly 

 colored narrow median stripe more or less distinct; sides of cephalo- 

 thorax densely clothed with black pubescence with more scattered 

 hairs of yellowish intermixed ; the narrow median stripe clothed with 

 yellowish or golden-brown hair, which forms a bright stripe which 

 continues forward as a line between the eyes and reaches the anterior 

 row, the stripe expanding posteriorly about the dorsal groove and then 

 again narrowing down the posterior declivity to the posterior margin ; 

 the middle stripe of pubescence sometimes obscure in middle region, but 

 always bright at anterior and posterior portions; along each side similar 

 yellowish hair forms a narrow marginal stripe which is narrower than 

 the broader supramarginal stripe of tegument ; front margin of clypeus 

 at middle with a fringe of yellowish hair. Chelicene, including claws, 

 black, clothed with moderately long black pubescence without any 

 short paler hairs. Endites and labium brown-black, lighter at tips. 

 Sternum black, a narrow light colored median line anteriorly; clothed 

 with black hair. Coxm of legs beneath black, lighter, yellowish brown, 

 laterally, at base beneath a similarly colored light spot which is mostly 

 acutely pointed distally. Legs brown, of light shade in young specimens, 

 becoming dark reddish brown with age, deeper colored distally; all joints 

 excepting the tarsi and the metatarsi with light cross-bands which are 

 distinct above, especially on femora, but which may be obscure beneath ; 

 light rings much more distinct in young specimens than in old, and in 

 the latter on the posterior pairs of legs than on the anterior; legs 

 densely clothed with long black hairs intermixed with shorter yellowish 

 pubescence, the latter mostly confined to the lighter bands in tegument. 




1908.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



23/ 



Abdomen alcove very dark ; a basal black mark with end behind forked 

 and followed by a series of chevron-marks, all the marks usually 

 indistinct in older specimens, in which the entire dorsum is black or 

 nearly so ; dorsum clothed in life with black and grayish-brown pubes- 

 cence, the lighter pubescence more concentrated anteriorly and antero- 

 laterally, and also forming some mostly obscure transverse chevron- 

 piarks behind; in dark specimens the sides are dark or black-streaked 

 and spotted below with yellow pubescence, with the yellow sometimes 

 predominating over the black ; venter with numerous spots and streaks 

 of yellow pubescence usually arranged mostly in four lines or stripes 

 converging to the spinnerets, and thus dividing the dark into three 

 bands similarly converging caudally. Spinnerets brown. Epigynum 

 reddish brown. 



Face rather low, not fully half as high as the chelicene are long, the 

 latter long and massive, considerably longer than the face is wide in 

 front. Cephalothorax not high, dorsal line highest at third eye row. 

 from there being nearly straight to the posterior declivity. 



Anterior row of eyes as wide as or slightly wider than the second, 

 nearly straight; anterior median eyes less than their radius apart, 

 about as far from lateral eyes ; anterior lateral eyes a little more than 

 two-thirds as large in diameter as the median, once and one-half their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus, closer to eyes of second row ; 

 eyes of second row a little less than their diameter apart; eyes of third 

 row three-fourths as large as the second, twice as far from each other 

 as from the second ; cephalothorax 6.5 times the length of the quad- 

 rangle of posterior eyes. 



ChelicerfE armed as usual. Labium longer than wide (8.5 : 8); basal 

 excavation as usual ; sides strongly convexly bulging, the curvature 

 less above than below; front margin wide, concave for nearly entire 

 width (PI. IX, fig. 9). Legs stout; tibia + patella IV shorter than the 

 cephalothorax ; metatai*sus IV of nearly same length as the width of the 

 cephalothorax; tarsi I and II slightly curved. III and IV straight; 

 tarsi scopulate as usual, the scopula? on legs I and II extending also 

 over metatarsi and over all but basal portion of tibise ; spines of tibise 

 as usual. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. XVII, fig. 7. 



Total length, 23 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 10.6 mm.; width. 

 8.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 25.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 9.3 mm. ; met., 5.1 mm. 

 Length of leg II, 23.2 mm. 

 Length of leg III, 21.5 mm. 

 16 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Length of leg IV, 30.1 mm. ; tib. + pat., 9.8 mm. ; met., 8.3 mm. 



Male. — Much hghter in color than the female, but the color patterns 

 are nearly the same. The lighter pubescence is much more abundant 

 on cephalothorax than in the female, much predominating over that of 

 blackish color. Legs much lighter with the yellow pubescence dense, 

 while the longer black hairs are comparatively sparse; femora with 

 traas verse dark bands above, but these indistinct or absent at sides 

 and ventrally ; distinct dark rings on tibiae. Labium and endites some- 

 times colored as in female but often much lighter, almost yellow. 

 Coxce of legs beneath with black on ventral surface, often reduced to a 

 few spots at distal end, the coxae being elsewhere yellow. On the 

 abdomen also the yellow and brown pubescence predominates over the 

 black, the latter appearing over the black basal band (which is distinct, 

 widest toward posterior end and pointed anteriorly), over the antero- 

 lateral angles and in variously formed spots and streaks laterally, 

 most of the dorsum being thus in life of a golden brown color; venter 

 usually yellow with some spots of black, less often as in the female. 



The chelicerce clothed on basal half with long golden yellow hairs, 

 distally with black hairs. 



Tibia + patella IV longer than the cephalothorax, of same length 

 as the metatarsus; patellae I and II armed in front and behind. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XVII, fig. 8. 



Total length, 18 mm. I^ength of cephalothorax, 9.1 mm.; greatest 

 width, 7.2 mm, 



Length of leg I, 30.1 imii. ; tib. + pat., 10 mm. ; met., 7.4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 27.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 26.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 35 mm. ; tib. + pat., 10.5 mm. ; met., 10.5 mm. 



Syn. — 1876. Tarentula inhonesta Keyserling, Verh. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 



'634, PI. 7, fig. 17. 

 1878. Tarentula tigrina McCook. 



1885. Lycosa vulpina Emerton, Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 487, PI. 47, fig. 2. 

 1890. Tarentula inhonesta, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12. 



. Lycosa vulpina, Marx, ibid. 



1890. Lycosa tigrina, Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 42, p. 423. 

 1892. Lycosa vulpina, Banks, op. cit., 44, p. 67, PI. I, fig. 39. 



. Lycosa tigrina, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 160. 



. Lycosa tigrina, Fox, ibid., p. 538. 



1898. Lycosa tigrina, Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., 2. 

 1900. Lycosa fatifera. Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliila., p. 538. 

 1902. Lycosa inhonesta, Montgomery, op. cit., p. 557, PI. 29, figs. 21, 22. 

 1904. Lycosa inhonesta, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 290, 

 PL XX, figs. 38, 39. 



Type locality. — "North America." 



Known localities. — Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York!, New 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 239 



Jersey, Pennsylvania, District of Columbia, Alabama, Georgia!, 

 Indiana, Kansas!. 

 A well-known species of burrowing habits. 



Lycosa arenioola Scudder, 1877. 

 (Psyche, 2, p. 2.) 



Female. — Tegument of cephalothorax dark reddish brown to blackish, 

 scarcely lighter above ; a median lighter band a little wider than third 

 eye row in front, strongly narrowed anteriorly to dorsal groove and 

 usually expanding again back of groove; the band chiefly produced 

 by a finer gray or white pubescence intermixed with coarser brown, 

 the tegument beneath being usually but little lighter than on sides; 

 sides of cephalothorax covered with brown pubescence, gray hairs 

 scattered but showing .more abundantly below, especially posteriorly. 

 Chelicerce dark reddish brown to nearly black, clothed with a dense 

 coat of rusty brown colored pubescence, fringe along furrow of 

 chelicerae brighter, reddish or coffee colored. Labium and endites dark 

 reddish brown, paler distally. Sternum dark reddish brown to nearly 

 black. Anterior coxce of legs dark brown to nearly black, posterior 

 coxae lighter. Legs reddish brown, the anterior pairs darker than the 

 posterior; the femora, patellae and tibiae of the first and second legs 

 nearly black beneath; distal ends of posterior tarsi and metatarsi 

 usually darker ; legs clothed with dense coat of mixed gray and brown 

 pubescence and longer dark brown bristles, scopulae brown. Abdomen 

 densely pubescent; a dark brown median band on dorsum reaching to 

 the spinnerets behind, which just in front of middle has on each side 

 a broad indentation, and which has behind the middle a series of nar- 

 row paired indentations ; the band covered or largely formed by dark 

 brown pubescence. Sides of dorsum grayish brown, the pubescence 

 being brown and gray intermixed, the brown more abundant above; a 

 dark brown band of same color as median one crossing each antero- 

 lateral angle and running obliquely backward and downward, meeting 

 the venter back of middle. Vejiter brown to dark brown, usually a 

 darker band from genital furrow to spinnerets. Epigynum dark red- 

 dish brown. Spinnerets brown. 



Cephalothorax wide in front ; in profile second eyes seem to be lower 

 down on face than usual, highest at third eye row ; pars cephalica convex ; 

 posterior declivity beginning on pars cephalica a considerable distance 

 in front of thoracic furrow, making the decHvity very long and the pos- 

 terior portion of cephalothorax very low and exagp;erating apparent 

 height of front part. Face moderate in height, not fully half the 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



length of the chelicer??, protruding above over base; sides convex, 

 slanting below. 



Anterior row of eyes almost as wide as second, a little procurved; 

 anterior median eyes larger than the lateral, not fully their radius 

 apart, about as close as to lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes their 

 diameter from eye^ of second row, twice their diameter from front 

 margin of clypeus; eyes of second row their diameter or slightly more 

 than their diameter apart, not fully half as far again from eA^es of 

 third row. Quadrangle of posterior eyes hardly one-fifth the length 

 of the cephalothorax. 



Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with three equal teeth, the upper 

 jnargin with three as usual ; the smaller teeth above more than usually 

 stout. 



Legs distinctly increasing in thickness from the fourth to the first, the 

 first conspicuously stoutest; tarsi and metatarsi I and II densely 

 scopulate; tarsus III with scopula divided by a median setose band; 

 tarsus IV with scopulse much reduced, the scopular hairs being sparse 

 along each side, the setose band occupying most of ventral surface; 

 tibiae I and II and metatarsi I and II armed as usual, the spines of tibia? 

 usually slender and easily rubbed off or overlooked; patellae I and II 

 each armed in front with a spine ; tibiae III and IV without true spines 

 above; femora I and II bent forward, IV backward, less so; III nearly 

 straight. Tibia + patella IV shorter than cephalothorax ; metatarsus 

 IV much shorter than tibia + patella, but longer than tibia, less than 

 width of cephalothorax. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. XX, fig. 9. 



Total length, 20.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 10.1 mm.; width, 

 7.3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 23 mm. ; tib. + pat., 8.1 mm. ; met., 4.9 mm. 



Length of leg II, 20.5 mm. 



Length of leg III, 19.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 26.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 9 mm. ; met., 6.9 mm. 



Syn. — 1881. Tarentula nidifex Marx, Am. Nat., p. 396. 

 1885. Lycosa nidifex (Marx) Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad., VI, p. 487, PI. 

 47, figs. 4, 4a. 



1888. Lycosa arenicola Scudder, McCook, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1888, 

 p. 333. 



1889. Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Marx, Araneae N. A., pp. 561 and 594, note 

 3d. 



1890. Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1892. Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Marx, Proc. E. S. W., II, p. 160. 

 1895. Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Banks, J. N. Y. E. S., Ill, p. 91. 

 1898. Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Simon, Hist. Nat., II, p. 341. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



1902. Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Montgonierv, Proe. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 



p. 550, PI. XXIX, fig. 13. 

 1904. Geohjcosa arenicola, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 



299. 



Known localities. — Massachusetts, Rhode Island!, Connecticut!, New 

 York (Long Island!), New Jersey, District of Columbia, Pennsylvania, 

 Maryland, Virginia, Indiana. 



This species is our best known turret builder. Its burrows are com- 

 monl}^ from 10 to 12 inches deep, often one-half inch wide, and are 

 surmounted by turrets usually one and one-half inches in height. ^ ^ 



Lyoosa fatifera Hentz, 1842. 



' (Bost. J. N. Hist., IV, p. 229, PI. 2, fig. 8.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax with dark red-brown tegument, often 

 blackish about eyes ; clothed with tawny colored or rufous pubescence 

 and showing no markings. Chelicerce dark reddish brown, with brown 

 or grayish-brown pubescence, rufous distally along furrow. Labium 

 and endites reddish brown, lighter at tips. Sternum and coxce of leg 

 beneath light or yellowish brown, clothed with gray pubescence. 

 Legs reddish brown; the femora beneath much lighter, yellowish; the 

 tibi£e, tarsi and metatarsi commonh^ much darker, especially in 

 anterior pairs clothed with grayish pubescence; scopulse brown. 

 Abdomen above dark brown, clothed with dense brown or tawny pubes- 

 cence; venter with light, sometimes grayish-brown pubescence. 

 Spinnerets brown. Epigynwn dark reddish brown. 



Cephalothorax very wide in front, nearly five-sixths as wide as behind, 

 the sides but little bulging. In profile the cephalothorax is seen to 

 have pars cephalica large and convex; highest between eyes of third 

 row and dorsal groove ; posterior declivity long, the median furrow being 

 upon its upper portion. Face appearing rather high, but only slightly, 

 if at all, more than half the length of the massive chelicerse; sides 

 convex and slanting as usual. First row of eyes as long as second, a 

 little procurved; anterior median eyes more than their radius apart, 

 as far from the anterior lateral eyes which are smaller; anterior lateral 

 eyes more than their diameter from eyes of the second row, more than 

 once and a half their diameter from front margin of clypeus ; anterior 

 median eyes their diameter from eyes of second row, or nearly so; eyes 

 of second row their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes about 

 one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax. Legs rather short and 

 stout; the fourth pair two and one-half times the length of the cephalo- 

 thorax; the second pair twice as long as the cephalothorax; tibia + 

 patella IV shorter than the cephalothorax, same length as tibia -(- 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



patella I ; metatarsus IV shorter than tibia + patella IV by one-third 

 of its own length ; first and second tarsi and metatarsi and distal end of 

 tibiae scopulate; tarsi III and IV with scopulae divided by a median 

 setose band; patella I and III armed in front (within) with a single 

 spine. 



The epigynum of Lycosa fatifera is very much like that of Lycosa 

 lenta, but is smaller, being not more than half as long, also the septal 

 piece of the guide in lenta is more than two and one-fourth times as 

 long as the cross-piece, whereas it is less than twice as long in fatifera; 

 the cross-piece is also somewhat differently shaped in the two (PI. 

 XX, fig. 8.) 



Total length, 17.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 9.3 mm. ; width, 

 6.5 mm. 



Length of leg I, 20.5 mm. ; tib, -F pat., 8 mm. ; met., 4.4 mm. 



Length of leg II, L8.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 16.4 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 23.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 8 mm. ; met., 6.1 mm. 



Type locality. — Alabama. 



Known localities. — Alabama!, Georgia!, Texas, Missouri!, Kansas!, 

 Illinois, Utah !. 



Syn.— 1832. Lycosa fatifera Sill, J. Sc. and Arts (ad. part.), pp. 106-107. 

 1875. Lycosa fatifera Hentz, Spiders of U. S. (Burgess), p. 26, PI. 2, fig. 8. 

 1895. Lycosa missouriensis Banks, Ent. News., Vol. IV, p. 206. 

 1899. Lycosa domifex Hancock, Ent. News, Vol. X, p. 26. 

 1904. Geolycosa latifrons Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 295, 

 PI. XIX, figs. 15-18. 



It seems very probable that Hentz, in his notes on habits, has con- 

 f oimded two species under the name fatifera ; but the description and the 

 figure which he gives can hardly be applicable to any other species 

 than the one under consideration. The description and figure indicate 

 a form without distinct markings, and his statement that a "piceous 

 variety is found in Alabama, with the two first joints of the legs pectus 

 and abdomen yellowish underneath, or lighter in color," applies per- 

 fectly to some specimens of the form above described which I have 

 from this same locality, and which is very common there and must 

 have been well known to Hentz. This form fits only his description of 

 fatifera among all treated by him. The species which Hentz observed 

 living in holes in Massachusetts, and which he says is common there, 

 may have been L. aspersa {inhonesta), as has been suggested by Banks, 

 but far more likely it was arenicola, the common turret builder of that 

 region. Hentz says: "Cheliceres covered with rufous hairs," which is 

 not so in most specimens of aspersa. The strong markings of aspersa 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



would not have been passed over. However, Hentz would seem to 

 have written his description after he had been in the South and away 

 from Massachusetts for many years, and doubtless had before him 

 only the Southern form, which he erroneously supposed to be the 

 same as the turret builder he recalled as common in Massachusetts. 

 Old and rubbed specimens of arenicola might appear similar, as the 

 markings in this form are due to color of the hair. Whatever Northern 

 form it was the habits of which Hentz had in mind, it was long ago 

 separated under another name, and this common and widespread 

 Southern form which Hentz undoubtedly described as and called 

 fatifera must logically continue to bear this name. 



The species has been found abundant in the ''sandy waters bordering 

 the lower end of Lake Michigan" by Mr. J. C. Hancock ('99) who says : 

 "Patches of high grass, sedges and ragweeds made the open lay of ground 

 a paradise of running spiders. Here it was the castle-building species 

 [termed by him domifex] seemed perfectly at home, showing its varied 

 accomplishments to best advantage. The artfully-hidden castle is 

 not apparent to the uninitiated while walking over the ground, as it is 



commonly secreted in a recess of overhanging dried grass 



When one remembers the average size of the adult castle, only five- 

 eighths of an inch high and a little over one-half inch in diameter, it is 

 obvious that close inspection is quite essential. Usually the spider's 

 tube is constructed vertically in the ground, unless obstructions cause 



some deviations Old spiders live in their burrows for more 



than a season and often remodel them after being injured by storms. 

 Younger specimens re-dig outgro^vn burrows, enlarging them as 



occasion requires Materials used in the construction of the 



turrets were green and dried grass leaves, dried fine sedges, leaves of 

 foxtail grass, fibrous roots, etc. Young specimens not infrequently 

 build a perfect httle tower, almost entirely of stones, and one I have 

 in mind had nine such particles made into a compact edifice five milli- 

 meters high. The masonry was exquisitely put up, every stone bearing 

 out true proportions about the central opening of four millimeters 

 diameter. Silk used as cement held the whole together securely." 



The author has found the burrows of this species abundant over 

 grassy stretches on the foothills near Salt Lake City. In the case 

 of some burrows no turrets are present; but in most cases turrets of 

 dried sticks, grass or earth are found. 



Lycosa lenta Hentz, 1844. 



(J. Bost. Nat. Hist., IV, p. 386.). 

 Female.— Tegument of cephalothorax reddish brown as usual, lighter 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



brown in a median band which may be very indistinct anteriorly, also 

 lighter along margins, with radiating light lines connecting middle and 

 side bands; clothed principally with light gray pubescence, which is 

 densest in a rather wide marginal band each side and in a middle band, 

 widening from eyes until as wide as eye area at point between eyes and 

 dorsal groove and then suddenly narrowed to only about half as wide, 

 and from there very gradually narrowing caudad ; the median band and 

 lateral band of gray on each side connected by radiating lines of same 

 color; on the sides a dark brown pubescence intermixed with the line of 

 gray and more aljundant above, below the median gray band. Chelicerce 

 black, the lateral condyles red, clothed with a dense light gra}^ or 

 yellowish gray pubescence. Labium and endites black or dark brown- 

 black, lighter distally. Sternum and coxcb of legs beneath black or dark 

 brown-black, clothed with gray and longer, stiffer dark brown or black- 

 ish pubescence. Legs brown to yellowish, clothed with light gray to 

 brown-gray pubescence ; scopulaB brown ; legs without rings or markings 

 above. Abdomen gray-brown from gray and brown pubescence inter- 

 mixed, usually in fine streaks and dots; a lanceolate outline or more 

 rarely solid mark at base which is truncated or bifurcated behind ; on 

 posterior half a few more indistinct chevron-marks, each bordered 

 behind by a light line, ending in a light spot each side; a row of tri- 

 angular dark spots on each side behind but connected by the light 

 cross-lines. Sides of abdomen light gray, immaculate or with a few 

 spots of brown. Venter in front of lung-slits brown or gray, often 

 black along the middle; behind lung-slits solid black or sometimes 

 with a light central spot surrounded with black. Spinnerets brown. 

 Epigynum dark reddish brown. 



Cephcdothorax high, highest a little behind third eye row, line of 

 dorsum a little convex; dorsal groove partly above and partly on 

 posterior declivity. Face hardly above half the length of the long and 

 massive chelicerse, the sides convex and slanting about as usual. 



Anterior row of eyes a little shorter than the second, nearly straight; 

 anterior median eyes distinctly larger than the lateral (3 : 2), less than 

 their radius apart and about the same distance from the lateral; 

 anterior lateral eyes a little more than their diameter from front margin 

 of clypeus, scarcely closer to eyes of second row; anterior median eyes 

 less than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row 

 less than three-fourths their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes not fully one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Legs moderately long and stout; the posterior tarsi rather slender; 

 tibia + patella IV shorter than cephalothorax ; patella I and II armed 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



in front with a spine; tibiae and metatarsi I and II armed below as 

 usual, the spines small and weak; tarsi and metatai-si I and II scopulate 

 as usual; the scopulce of tarsi III and IV divided by rather narrow 

 median setose bands. 



For structure of epigynum see PL XVIII, fig, 8. 



Total length, 22 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 11 mm.; width, 

 7.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 28.1 mm.; tib. + pat., 10 mm.; met., 6 mm. 



Length of leg II, 25.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 25 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 32.1 mm.; tib. + pat., 10 mm.; met., 9.2 mm. 



Male. — Coloration nearly as in female. 



Chelicerce above with light yellow-gray pubescence; pubescence on 

 distal portion dark, but fringe along furrow light gray. 



Patella I and II armed both in front and behind ; spines on tibia3 and 

 metatarsi I and II comparatively long, not reduced as in female. 

 Patella and tibia about equal in length and stoutness, together as long as 

 the tarsus which is distinctly thicker. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XVIII, fig. 8. 



Total length, 20.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 10.5 mm.; width, 

 S mm. 



Length of leg I, 35.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 12.2 mm. ; met., 8.8 mm. 



Length of leg II, 33 mm. 



Length of leg III, 30.4 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 40 mm. ; tib. + pat., 12.5 mm. ; met., 11.6 mm. 



Svn. — 1844. Lycosa ruricola Hentz, J. Bost. Nat. Hist., p. 387. 

 1875. Lycosa lenta Hentz, Sp. of U. S., p. 27, PI. 3, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. 



. Lycosa ruricola Hentz, ibid., p. 28, PI. 3, figs. 5, 6. 



1890. Lycosa lenta, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12. 



1892. Lycosa ruricola Hentz, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., II, p. 160. 



1898. Lycosa lenta Hentz, Simon, Hist. Nat. des. Araign, II, p. 333. 



1900. Lycosa lenta Hentz, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 538. 



Locality. — Pennsylvania, North and South Carolina. 



Known localities. — Pennsylvania, North Carolina !, South Carolina, 

 Alabama!, Georgia, Florida. 



It would seem probable that Hentz did not in all cases distinguish 

 this form from his erratica, and that his account applies partly to the 

 latter species. What he regarded as the typical form, however, was a 

 burrow-making species, although, like carolinensis, etc., found wander- 

 ing about and hiding under stones, for in his discussions of erratica he 

 says: "This species I formerly supposed to be a variety of L. lenta, 

 but it was always found wandering and never in holes. I therefore 




246" PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May^ 



consider it as perfectly distinct, having been often seen running in the 

 grass." Concerning lenta he remarks: " This common and powerful 

 species is found wandering in fields, attacking and subduing very large 

 insects. The female carries her young on her back, which gives her a 

 horrible appearance. If caught or wounded the little ones escape 

 rapidly in all directions; but the mother is faithful to her duties 

 and defends her progeny while life endures. It hides under stones^ 

 logs, etc." 



Var. baltimoriana (Keyserling), 1876. 



(Sub Tarenlula, Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 632.) 

 Patellse and distal ends of tibiae black beneath; femora of the fii'st 

 and second legs with a dark line along posterior side and one or two 

 similar ones above, these replaced with corresponding row^s of dots 

 on posterior femora. Otherwise agreeing with type form. 



Syn.— 1890. Tarentula baltimoriana, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 563. 

 1902. Lycosa baltimoriana, Montgomerj^, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 



561, PI. 29, fig. 25. 

 1904. Lycosa baltimoriana. Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XII, p. -114. 

 . Geolycosa baltimoriana, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.,. 



p. 297. 



Type locality. — Baltimore, Md. 



Known localities. — Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, Maryland, District 

 of Columbia, Virginia, Texas. 



I have seen too few specimens of this form to be able to determine 

 satisfactorily the validity of its rank as a variety. It is maintained 

 here as such tentatively. Females showing the variant colors are not 

 known to me personally, nor have such been reported. 



Lyooia carolinensis Walckenaer, 1837. 

 (Insect. Apt., p. 285). 

 Female. — Tegument of cephalothorax uniformly dark reddish brown 

 covered with a dense coat of brown and gray hair making it more or 

 less mouse-colored, showing in fully grown individuals commonly no 

 distinct markings; in some a gray supramarginal band on each side and 

 a similar median one along the dorsum, widening from behind anteriorly. 

 CheliceroB black, covered with a coat of orange-yellow hairs with more 

 sparse long brown bristles; the dense fringe along furrow reddish 

 brown or rust colored. Labium and endites black, brown at tips. 

 Sternum and coxcb of legs beneath black, covered with brown hairs. 

 Tegument of legs reddish brown, darker distally, paler on ventral 

 surface of femora; on ventral surface at distal end of femur and at 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



both ends of tibia black, these dark bands covered with dark brown 

 hair; the scopuloe of same brown color, but legs elsewhere clothed with 

 much lighter hair which is light brownish gray to whitish. Abdomen 

 with the tegument light brown; at base a dark or blackish median 

 stripe which bifurcates at its caudal end and sends out from its sides 

 several pairs of pointed lines directed caudo-laterally; behind the 

 basal stripe a series of chevron-shaped laterally and anteriorly acutely 

 pointed dark cross-marks, often a series of light dots along each side; 

 doi-sum densely covered above with long brown to grayish-brown 

 pubescence, except over the dark marks which are clothed and made 

 more distinct by black hair; sides of abdomen above dark with brown 

 and black pubescence intermixed in spots and streaks, the sides below 

 becoming paler, yellow to gray or almost white with larger but more 

 sparse black spots; venter nearly always deep brown or black, due 

 largely to the pubescence being very dense and of the latter color; 

 sometimes a light mark or spot within the light area on each side of 

 middle line, leaving three black stripes converging and uniting in front 

 of the spinnerets and united by a cross-bar behind the genital furrow, 

 while in other rarer cases the reduction of the black may be carried 

 even farther. Spinnerets brown. Epigynum reddish black. 



Face in height moderate, more than half the length of the chelicerae ; 

 sides strongly- convex and moderately slanting outward below, not so 

 steep as in scutulata. 



Anterior row of eyes nearly as long as the second, but little procurved ; 

 anterior median eyes not fully their- radius apart, a little farther from 

 the lateral eyes which are a little smaller; clypeus wide, the anterior 

 lateral eyes more than one and one-half times their diameter, or rather 

 nearer twice from its front margin, closer to eyes of second row; eyes 

 of second row not proportionately large, not much less than their 

 diameter apart; eyes of third row twice as far apart as from those of 

 second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes relatively short, being not 

 fully one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax, 



Chelicerce long and very robust, the margins of its furrows armed in 

 typical manner. Labium a little longer than wide (12.5 : 11.75); 

 basal excavation one-third or a little more the total length; labium 

 above excavations broadly rectangular, as wide above as below, the 

 sides nearly parallel and scarcely curved, antero-lateral angles rounded ; 

 front margin widely truncate. Legs long and robust; tibia -f- patella 

 IV shorter than the cephalothorax, of same length or nearly so as 

 tibia + patella I; spines of anterior tibiae beneath as usual; patella I 

 and II each armed on the anterior side with a single spine ; anterior tarsi 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



and metatarsi beneath with dense scopular pads which extend also over 

 tibiae except at basal third or half ; scopulse of posterior legs not extend- 

 ing upon tibia;, divided as usual. 



Epigynum oblong, rounded anteriorly; guide inversely T-shaped 

 with the transverse arm shorter and stouter; lateral furrows narrow 

 and of same width throughout. (PI. XXI, fig. 1.) 



Total length, 34.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 14 mm.; width, 

 11. mm. 



Length of leg I, 38.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 13.2 mm. ; met., 8 mm. 



Length of leg II, 35 mm. 



Length of leg III, 31.7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 42 mm.; tib. + pat., 13.2 mm.; met., 10.8 mm. 



Male. — Rather lighter in color than the female. Chelicerce very 

 densely covered with grayish-yellow hair, the heavy fringe of the 

 furrow rufous. 



Patellae of legs I and II armed both in front and behind. 



Patella and tibia of palpus of nearly same length and thickness, the 

 tibia enlarging distally; tarsus a little shorter than the two preceding 

 joints together. For structure of tarsal organ see PL XXI, fig. 2. 



Total length, 21 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 11.1 mm.; width 

 8.6 mm. 



Length of leg I, 35.7 mm.; tib. + pat., 12.2 mm.; met., 8.3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 32.3 mm. 



Length of leg III, 28.7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 40.2 mm.; tib. + pat,, 12.3 mm.; met., 11.5 mm. 



Svn. — 1842. Lycosa carolinensisl , Bosc MSS., Hentz, J. B. Soc. N. H., 4, 



^p. 230. 

 1852. Lycosa pilosa Girard, Marcy's Expl. Red R. of La., p. 252, PI. 16, figs. 



4 and 5. 

 1875. Lycosa carolinensis? , Bosc MSS., Hentz, Sp. of U. S., p. 27, PI. 2, fig. 9. 

 1885. Lycosa carolinensis Hentz, Emerton, Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 486, 



PI. 47, figs. 1 to 16. 

 1890. Lycosa carolinensis, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 561. 



. Lycosa carolinensis, Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 42, p. 423. 



1892. Lycosa caroliyiensis, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 160. 

 . Lycosa carolinensis, Fox, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 269. 



1894. Lycosa carolinensis, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 2, p. 50. 



1895. Lycosa carolinensis. Banks, Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., 8, p. 429. 

 — . Lycosa carolinensis. Banks, Ent. News, 6, p. 205. 



1896. Lycosa carolinensis. Banks, J. N. Y. E. Soc, 4, p. 192. 



1898. Lycosa carolinensis, Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., 2, pp. 332 and 347. 



1900. Lycosa carolinensis. Banks, Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 538. 



1902. Lycosa carolinensis. Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliila. p. 586. 



1902. Lycosa carolinensis, Emerton, Common Sp. U. S., p. 73, fig. 176. 



. Lycosa carolinensis, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 556. 



1904. Geolycosa texana Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 293, 



PI. XVIII, figs. 13, 14 (color var.). 

 . Geolycosa carolinensis, Montgomery, ihid., p. 299. 




1908.] ■ ? f NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Type locality. — "Carolina." 



Known localities. — New Hampshire!, Massachusetts, Rhode Island!, 

 Connecticut, New York!, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, District of 

 Columbia!, North Carolina!, Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, 

 Mississippi !, Texas !, Kansas !, Indiana, Colorado, Utah !. 



Our largest Lycosa, much resembling in its large size and in colora- 

 tion the famous Tarcntula of southern Europe and its close allies. 

 Specimens from the Southwest often differ from the typical form in 

 having the venter in part pale as above described. 



"This spider has the same habits as L. fatijera, making deep excava- 

 tions in the ground. It is frequently found under stones, and possibly 

 it is in such places, nearer the surface, that the eggs are hatched. The 

 female carries her young on her back, presenting a hideous aspect, 

 being then apparently covered with animated warts. The little 

 monsters have the instinct, if the mother is much disturbed, to escape 

 and scatter in all directions. The male, not unfrequently of an 

 enormous size, is often found wandering in October and November in 

 Alabama, and sometimes enters houses" (Hentz), Concerning its 

 habits in New England, Emerton says: "This species digs a hole six 

 or eight inches deep, but is often found under stones or running in 

 fields and occasionally in houses all over New England." 



This species is common in Utah, where the males are frequently 

 seen wandering in the open or hiding under stones. The females dig 

 deep burrows which are sometimes surmounted with turrets, but not 

 so commonly so as in the case of fatijera, 



Lycosa coloradensis Banks, 1894. 

 (J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, p. 50.) 

 Female. — Tegument of cephalothorax reddish brown, densely clothed 

 with pubescence which nearly completely masks the ground color. A 

 median light band as wide anteriorly as the eye area, but abruptly nar- 

 rowed at dorsal groove to only half that width or less ; this median band 

 formed of brown-gray pubescence, often mixed anteriorly with darker 

 pubescence which obscures the distinctness of the band. Sides of cepha- 

 lothorax clothed with dark, brownish to grayish black pubescence, mixed 

 with gray like that of median band, the gray predominating, principally 

 arranged in wide radiating bands and becoming more abundant below, 

 where it forms on each side a marginal band which is widest anteriorly 

 where it nearly touches eye area. Chelicerm with tegument blackish or 

 reddish black, completely masked on upper half with dense pubescence 

 of rusty brown color, that of lower half dark and very sparse, paler 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



along furrow of chelicerce. Labium and endites black or nearly so, 

 lighter at tips. Sternum and coxm of legs beneath black or nearly so. 

 Femora of legs beneath light gray, the tibiae and more especially the 

 tarsi and metatarsi darker brown because of scopulae, the ends of 

 femora and of last four tibiae black; above the femora a little darker 

 than below, brown, but distal joints no darker, no bands at end of any 

 joints showing above. Legs densely clothed with pubescence which 

 give the colors as above, the tegument itself being reddish brown above 

 and much paler, yellowish, beneath except at ends of femora and last 

 two pairs of tibiae which are black. Abdomen with middle of dorsum 

 light brown or grayish brown, a dark brown basal lanceolate mark 

 with its margins deeper, its points behind terminating in the apex 

 of a dark chevron-mark, which is followed behind by several other 

 chevrons. The lanceolate mark giving off laterally most com- 

 monly two pairs of lines running latero-caudally on each side ; side of 

 dorsum dark brown or blackish with numerous small light dots and 

 enclosing on each side a series of large light spots along sides of chevrons, 

 and at outer ends of the lines from basal mark an ocellate light spot 

 contiguous with each side of basal spear-mark near its middle. Upper 

 portion of sides dark brown to black with numerous light spots and 

 darker, below the sides are gray with dark brown or black spots. 

 Venter in front of lung-slits and in a smaller spot at base of spinnerets 

 black, elsewhere gray, with or without small dots of black. Spinnerets 

 dark brown. Epigynum black or reddish black. 



Cephalothorax behind rather low ; in profile highest at third eye row 

 or a Httle behind it, a Uttle depressed or notched at dorsal groove. Face 

 low, one-half in height the length of the chelicerse. 



Front row of eyes shorter than second ; eyes of first row very nearly 

 equal in size; eyes of second row three-fourths their diameter apart; 

 anterior lateral eyes their diameter from eyes of second row, closer 

 still to front margin of clypeus; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth 

 the length of the cephalothorax. 



Leg IV less than three times the length of the cephalothorax; tibia 

 + patella IV shorter than cephalothorax, longer than metatarsus; 

 metatarsus IV nearly of same length tib. + pat. I; metatarsi and 

 tarsi I and II scopulate; tarsi III and IV with wide setose bands 

 dividing scopulae. Tibiae I and II armed as usual. Patella II armed 

 in front with a single spine. 



For structure of epigyyium see PI. XVIII, fig. 6. 



Total length, 18 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 8 mm.; width, 

 6 mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Length of leg I, 18.4 mm.; tib. + pat., 5.9 mm.; met., 4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 17.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 17.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 22.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7.2 mm. ; met., 6 mm. 



Male. — Coloration similar to female; pattern on abdomen rather 

 more distinct and spots on sides fewer. 



Patella I and II armed both in front and behind. Tibia and patella 

 of palpus siibequal in length and thickness, together as long as tarsus; 

 tarsus much thicker than preceding joints. 



For structure of palpal organ see PL XVIII, fig. 7. 



Total length, 13.3 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 6.7 mm.; width, 

 5 mm. 



Length of leg I, 23.6 mm.; tib. + pat., 8.1 mm.; met., 5.9 nam. 



Length of leg II, 21.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 19.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 26.3 mm.; tib. + pat., 8.1 mm.; met., 7.6 mm. 



Type locality. — Colorado. 



Known localities. — Colorado !, Arizona !, New Mexico, Kansas !. 



Lycosa erratica Hentz, 1842. 



i^ ^ (Journ. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 4, p. 388.) 



Female. — Sides of cephalothorax blackish brown, less commonly paler; 

 a reddish yellow or reddish brown median band, narrowest behind, 

 which widens distinctly at posterior end of pars cephalica and becomes 

 as wide as third eye row, from which point it contracts to a narrow- 

 stripe or line which continues forward to the first eye row; along each 

 lateral margin a light band similarly colored to the median one, the 

 lateral bands bisected by a dark line at least anteriorly; the median 

 pale band clothed with light gray or brownish-white pubescence which 

 between the eyes becomes yellowish, the lateral bands similarly clothed ; 

 sides of cephalothorax clothed with similar hair intermixed with much 

 black which is most abundant along each side of the median band, but 

 becomes more and more sparse below toward the margins. Cheliceras 

 dark reddish brown, clothed with short yellowish pubescence and with 

 intermixed longer black bristles, a fringe of long dark gray hair along 

 the margin of furrow. Labium and endites reddish brown. Sternum 

 blackish, with usually a paler median stripe; clothed with grayish 

 brown and more scattered blackish hairs. Legs and palpi brown 

 covered with a short brownish gray pubescence with the usual longer 

 blackish hairs intermixed ; all femora with dark cross-bands or annula- 

 tions which are present also at the ends and in the middle of the tarsi 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



and metatarsi and at the middle of the patellae of the posterior pairs, 

 but which are not present on these joints of the anterior pairs; the 

 dark annuli on the femora mostly incomplete below; the anterior and 

 posterior face of each femur commonly with a longitudinal black line 

 or stripe. Abdomen with a wide pale band over the dorsum, narro wing- 

 usually to a point at the spinnerets ; within the pale band at base a dark, 

 black-edged, lanceolate mark which extends to or often much beyond 

 the middle, ending usually in a forked apex and followed behind usually 

 by a triangular mark and several dark cross-lines; at other times the 

 basal stripe ends acutely; less commonly it is entirely absent; sides of 

 dorsum laterad of light band dark brown enclosing a series of large 

 angular black spots; sides above brown becoming lighter below, usually 

 marked with numerous small black spots ; venter whitish or light yellow, 

 without spots, but in the great majority of cases marked by a black 

 U-shaped stripe, each arm of which has its end behind a lung-slit, the 

 bent middle part being at the spinnerets, the arm of the U-shaped 

 band often connected by a cross-band behind the genital furrow; 

 sometimes the venter is entirely pale without any markings. Epiyy- 

 num reddish brown. Spinnerets smoky brown to black. 



Face moderate in height, the chehcerae about one and three-fourths 

 times as long; sides convex and moderately divergent beloAv. Anterior 

 row of eyes moderately procurved, shorter than the second by twice the 

 diameter of a lateral eye; anterior median eyes their radius apart, 

 closer to the smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes their diameter 

 from eyes of second row, a little farther from margin of clypeus; eyes of 

 second row their diameter apart, not much farther from the three- 

 fourths as large eyes of the third row ; eyes of third row twice as far from 

 each other as from eyes of second row; cephalothorax rather less than 

 five times the length of the cephalothorax. CheUcerce armed as usual, 

 the third tooth of lower margin of furrow a little reduced. Labium 

 much longer than wide (16 : 12.5); basal excavation of usual length; 

 sides evenly convexly curved from excavations to anterior angles; 

 front margin truncate. Legs long, the distal joints slender, especially 

 so the posterior metatarsi ; tibia + patella IV longer than cephalothorax 

 which is longer than tibia + patella I; anterior tibiae with spines as 

 usual; scopulae of tarsi as usual, those of anterior pairs extending also 

 upon metatarsi except at base ; patella II armed within. 



Ends of transverse arms of guide of epigynum almost always char- 

 acteristically excavated on anterior side of ends (PI. XVII, fig. 3). 



Total length, 14 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5.4 mm. ; width, 

 4 mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 253 



Length of leg I, 14.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5 mm. ; met., 2.9 mm. 



Length of leg II, 13.9 mm. 



Length of leg III, 13.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 19.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5.9 mm. ; met., 4.9 mm, 



Male. — Coloration as in female but rather brighter.' 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XVII, fig. 4. 



Syn. — 1844. Lycosa sagittata Hentz. 



1846. Lycosa -propinqua Blackwall, 1846 (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., Vol. 

 XVII, pp. 31, 32). 



1875. Lycosa erratica Hentz, Sp. U. S. (Burgess), p. 29, PI. 3, fig. 8. 



1876. Tarentula lepida Keyserling, Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 631, PI. 7, 

 fig. 15. ' 



1877. Tarentula scalaris, Thorell, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., Ill, No. 2, 

 p. 520. 



1885. Lycosa communis Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 489. 



1890. Lycosa erratica, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 561. 

 . Lycosa communis, Marx, loc. cit. 



. Lycosa communis, Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 42, p. 426. 



1891. Lycosa erratica, Banks, Ent. News, 2, p. 86. 



1892. Lycosa communis, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 160. 



. Lycosa communis. Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbila., 44, p. 64. 



. Lycosa communis. Fox, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 269. 



1895. Lycosa erratica, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. 3, p. 91. 



. Lycosa erratica. Banks, Ent. News, 6, p. 205. 



1898. Lycosa erratica, Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., 2, p. 331. 



1900. Lycosa erratica, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 538. 



1902. Lycosa communis, Emerton, Common Sp. of U. S., p. 75, figs. 181, 182. 



. Lycosa lepida, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbila., p. 562, PI. 29, 



figs. 26, 27. 



1904. Lycosa lepida, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 287. 



Type locality. — Massachusetts and Alabama. 



Known localities. — Massachusetts !, Connecticut, Rhode Island !, New 

 Hampshire!, New York!, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, District of 

 Columbia!, Alabama, Louisiana!, Texas, Georgia!, North Carolina!, 

 Ohio, Illinois, Iowa!, Kansas!, Colorado!, Arizona!, Utah!, Montana!. 



I do not think there is room for doubt that the species above de- 

 scribed is the real erratica of Hentz, when one considers the abdominal 

 markings shown in his figure, in connection with his comments on 

 habits and the localities where he found it common. 



Hentz says concerning this species that it "was always found 

 wandering and never in holes; .... it was often seen, generally 

 running in the grass." This is a very common and widely distributed 

 species, found under stones and logs in the woods and especially in 

 grassy meadows. It is subject to much variation in size, though its 

 characteristic markings are rarely missed. 



Xyoosa scutulata Hentz, 1842. 



(Journ. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., IV, p. 390.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax with a dark chocolate-colored band each 

 17 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



side of the middle line which is widest behind and narrowing forward 

 is prolonged over the eyes of the corresponding side to the front margin 

 of the clj^peus, and in young specimens continues down the chelicerae of 

 the same side to near its distal end; these bands are covered with a 

 blackish pubescence with intermixed lighter yellowish hairs; between 

 these dark bands is a narrower yellowish-brown median band which is 

 much constricted between the last two rows of e3^es, but expands again 

 upon the face before reaching the margin of clypeus, this band clothed 

 with yellowish-gray pubescence, clear yellow in front; the sides of 

 cephalothorax below dark bands colored and clothed similarh^ to 

 median band with below a chocolate-colored submarginal line. Cheli- 

 cercB reddish brown covered with yellowish or grayish-yellow pubescence 

 at the distal end, within along the femora a fringe of longer hair of 

 somewhat rusty tinge. Labium reddish brown, clothed with a grayish 

 or tawny pubescence with intermixed longer, stiffer black hair. Ster- 

 num, endites and coxce of legs beneath light brown. Legs and palpi 

 light brown, the tarsi and metatarsi mostly darker, as also the tibiae 

 at distal ends; the femora with some rather faint longitudinal darker 

 lines clothed with tawny pubescence with intermixed hair of blackish 

 color, the longer ones of the latter pale on distal halves. Abdomen 

 with a broad blackish median band extending the entire length nar- 

 rowed from near middle towards each end, this band covered with 

 intermixed dark brown and blackish pubescence, the band indentated 

 with a brownish-yellow notch on each side in front of middle and 

 behind either with a series of similar indentations of yellow or enclosing 

 corresponding pairs of submarginal spots; each side of median band a 

 narrow broAvnish band appearing yellow because covered hy a dense 

 coat of yellowish pubescence; sides with tegument brown, sheathed 

 with lines of blackish-brown and yellowish pubescence above, paler 

 yellow with black spots below. Tegument of venter brown, densely 

 clothed with yellow pubescence and with small spots of black pubes- 

 cence, mostly arranged over one or two pairs of darker lines converging 

 toward the spinnerets. Spirmerets rather dark broAA'U. Epigynum 

 blackish. 



Smaller specimens are paler, and the venter may be without spots 

 and unmarked except for faint indications of the posteriorly converging 

 lines. 



Cephalothorax highest at third row of eyes, dorsal line in profile a 

 little depressed at front of median groove. Face high, two-thirds as 

 high as chelicerffi are long, in profile slightly convex and protrudes a 

 little above. Anterior row of eyes procurved, shorter than the second 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



by twice their diameter; eyes subeqiial in size and nearly equidistant, 

 being separated from each other by a space rather less than their 

 radius; anterior lateral eyes more than their diameter from the front 

 margin of clypeus, closer to the eyes of second row; eyes of second row 

 large, less than their diameter apart; eyes of third row two-thirds as 

 large as those of the second, nearly twice as far from each other as 

 from eyes of second row; cephalothorax five times as long as quad- 

 rangle of posterior eyes. Margins of furrow of the chelicera? armed 

 as usual, the third tooth of the lower margin a little reduced. Labium 

 much longer than wide (19 : 16); basal excavation one-third the total 

 length or rather longer; sides below straight and subparallel to 

 middle, then straight and converging to angles in front ; front margin 

 very gently convex laterally and indented at middle. Legs long and 

 slender; the posterior tarsi slender and nearly as long as tibia 4- 

 patella; all tarsi densely scopulate, the scopute clearly divided on 

 posterior pairs by a narrow median setose band, on the anterior pairs 

 the scopuke extend also upon the metatarsi entirely to the base and 

 even upon the tibia? distally. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. XVII, fig. 9. 



Total length, 21.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 10 mm.; width, 



7.6 mm. 



Length of leg I, 32.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 10.8 mm. ; met., 7.8 mm. 



I>ength of leg II, 28.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 21.7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 38.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 12.2 mm. ; met., 11.8 mm. 



Male. — Front pair of legs dark reddish brown to black, excepting 

 tarsus and proximal end of femur, above which are lighter; other legs 

 light brown. Anterior half of median dorsal stripe of abdomen 

 black and distinctly darker than posterior half. Venter gray, immacu- 

 late. Chelicerce brown wdth yellow pubescence. 



Patella I and II armed in front and behind. 



For structure of palpus see PI. XVIII, fig. 1. 



Total length, 11 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 6 mm.; wddth, 



4.7 mm. 



Length of leg I, 21.6 mm.; tib. + pat., 7.2 mm.; met., 5.6 mm. 



Length of leg II, 20.5 mm. 



Length of leg III, 17.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 25.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7.7 mm.; met., 8.1 mm. 



Syn. — 1875. Lycosa scutulata. 



1875. Lycosa .scutulata. 



1890. L^jcosa scutulata Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., XII, p. 563. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



1890. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Stone, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., p. 427. 

 1892. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. PWla., 1892, 

 p. 66. 



-. Lycosa scutulata Marx, Hentz, Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., II, p. 160. 



1895. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. Ill, p. 91. 

 •. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Banks, Ent. News, IV, p. 205. 



1897. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Banks, Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. IV, p. 189. 



1898. Lycosa scxdulata Hentz, Banks, Proc. Col. Acad. Sci., 3d ser., Zool., 

 Vol. I, p. 268. 



. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., Vol. II, pp. 329, 



330, 346. 

 1900. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 538. 

 1902. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Emerton, Common Sp. of U. S., p. 76. 

 . Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



p. 553. 

 1904. Lycosa scutulata Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 289. 



Type Zoca^zon.— Alabama. 



Known localities. — Alabama, North Carolina!, Georgia!, Florida, 

 Louisiana !, Mississippi, Texas, Connecticut, New York I, Pennsylvania, 

 New Jersey. District of Columbia, Ohio, Indiana!, lUinois, Iowa!, 

 Kansas !. 



Hentz remarks as follows concerning Lycosa scutulata after his 

 original description: "This common and very distinct species attains 

 a very large stature. It is most commonly found wandering in quest 



of prey The cocoon is very large, spherical and whitish, 



containing from 150 to 200 eggs, which hatch before the cocoon is 

 opened. The yellow spots on the abdomen seem to be wanting in the 

 young" {Sj). U. S., p. 32). 



lyoosa puJiotulata Hentz, 1842. 



(J. Bost. Soc. N. Hist., 4, p. 390.) 

 Cephalothorax light brown, with each side of the middle a blackish- 

 brown stripe which runs forward over eyes of the corresponding side 

 and reaches the front margin of the clypeus as a much narrower line, 

 also on each side a very narrow marginal and a wider submarginal 

 blackish line; the median light band is narrower than the dark bands 

 enclosing it; between the eyes of the third and second row it is nar- 

 rowed to a line but widens again above eyes of first row; the dark 

 bands of cephalothorax are clothed with dark somewhat smoky-brown 

 pubescence, the light regions covered with a grayish-brown pubes- 

 cence about the eyes are longer. Chelicerce black, clothed with short 

 light yellowish pubescence and some mostly very long blackish bristles ; 

 at the distal end within along the furrow a fringe of long 3^ellow or 

 rusty yellow hairs. Labium and endites dark reddish brown; light 

 distally. Sternum black, clothed with grayish-brown pubescence. 

 Coxce dark reddish brown. Legs elsewhere brown; the distal ends of 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



the tibiae and metatarsi of the last legs usually darker, legs otherwise 

 without markings ; covered with a very stout pale pubescence and with 

 longer straight blackish bristles which are denser than in scutulata; 

 the longer bristles appear paler distally as in scutulata. Tegument in 

 general brown, blackish brown along a wide median band extending the 

 entire length of the abdomen, the band widest in middle, covered by 

 intermixed black and deep brown pubescence with longer black 

 bristles; margin of middle black band smooth, not broken by indenta- 

 tions or enclosed lighter spots; tlie black pubescence more dense at 

 borders of its median band, the brown over its middle; each side of mid- 

 dle band a grayish-brown stripe; exterior to gray stripes the sides are 

 colored with brown and grayish brown intermingled in spots and 

 streaks, the brown often solid at the anterolateral angles ; sides below 

 and the venter gray with very small spots of black, the venter with a 

 variable number of larger black spots, sometimes also with one or 

 more continuous dark patches. Epigynum dark reddish brown to 

 black. S-pinnereis brown. 



Cephalothorax narrow, highest behind second row of eyes; sides 

 rather weakly rounded, high, with the sides steep. Face high, rather 

 more than two-thirds as high as the chelicerae are long, the sides steep 

 and but moderately convex. Anterior row of etjes moderately 

 strongly procurved, shorter than second row by about twice the 

 diameter of an anterior eye; anterior median eyes their radius apart, 

 farther from the slightly smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes 

 scarcely their diameter from the front margin of the clypeus, much 

 farther from the eyes of the second row; eyes of the second row less than 

 their diameter apart; eyes of third row about two-thirds as large as 

 those of the second ; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth as long as 

 cephalothorax. Chelicerce armed as usual. 



Legs long and moderately slender, the last tarsi slender but not pro- 

 portionately long; all femora conspicuously flattened laterally, each 

 of the two posterior ones on each side concavated beliind and bent 

 conspicuously backward, the two anterior ones concavated in front 

 side and bent forward ; anterior tibise and metatarsi armed beneath as 

 usual, all tarsi densely scopulate beneath, the posterior ones clearly 

 bisected by a narrow median setose band ; the anterior metatarsi also 

 scopulate for most of the entire distance to their bases, but the posterior 

 metatarsi not at all scopulate. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. XVIII, fig. 2. 



Total length, 16.4 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 7 mm.; widths 

 5 mm. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Length of leg I, 20 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7.4 mm. ; met., 4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 17.9 mm. 



Length of leg III, 16.6 mm. 



liength of leg IV, 22.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7.5 mm.; met., 6.6 mm. 



Male. — Chelicerce black, covered, but not denselj^, with black pubes- 

 cence; fringe along furrow pale rufous. Legs yellowish or pale brown, 

 the joints beyond patella of anterior pairs darker, reddish brown; 

 distal ends of tibia and metatarsus of leg IV darker blackish. The 

 hair of middle stripe of dorsum of abdomen, except black margins, is 

 rufous or nearly so, the light stripes bounding it are made by golden- 

 yellow hair. Venter with a wide median black band, which is widest 

 at its anterior end where it spreads out back of lung-slits. 



Patella I and II armed both in front and behind. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XVIII, fig. 3. 



Total length, 15 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 7.3 mm.; width^ 

 5.5 mm. 



Length of leg I, 23.2 mm.; tib. + pat., 8.4 mm.; met., 5 mm. 



Length of leg II, 21.9 mm. 



Length of leg III, 18.6 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 29 mm.; tib. + pat., 9 mm.; met., 9 mm. 



Syn. — 1842. Lijcosa punctulata Hentz, J. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. p. 390. 

 1875. Lijcosa punctulata Hentz, Spiders of U. S., p. 31, PI. 3, figs. 16, 17. 

 1885. Lycosa punctulata, Emerton, Trans. Conn. Ac, IV, p. 490. 

 1890. Lychsa punctulata, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 563. 



Non.-Syn. . Lycosa punctulata Hentz, Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 

 1892. Lycosa punctulata. Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



. Lycosa punctulata, Hentz, Fox, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 269. 



. Lycosa punctulata, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., II, p. 160. 



1895. Lj/cosa punctulata, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 3, p. 91. 



1900. Lycosa punctulata. Banks, Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 538. 



1902. Lycosa punctulata, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 552. 



1904. Lycosa punctulata, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 288. 



Type location. — Pennsylvania. 



Knownlocalities. — Pennsylvania, North Carolina !, Georgia !, Alabama, 

 Florida, Louisiana!, Mississippi!, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode 

 Island !, Indiana !, Ohio. 



Lyoosa frondicola Emerton, 1885. 



(Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 484, PI. 46, figs. 3 to 3b.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax dark brown above, lighter toward 

 margin; a median light brown band which is widest just behind the 

 eye area, where it is wider than the third row; from there it very 

 gradually narrows caudally and anteriorly passes broadly between the 

 eyes of the third row to those of the second; the median band in life 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



densely clothed with light gray pubescence; sides of cephalothorax 

 clothed with mixed black and gray pubescence, the gray predoininating, 

 increasing in abundance from above below and finally forming a narrow 

 marginal light gray stripe in which the hair is unmixed with any 

 black. Chelicerce black, clothed over basal portion with light brown 

 pubescence, distally with black. Labium and endites dark reddish or 

 blackish brown, lighter at tips. Sternum and coxce of legs beneath 

 dark reddish-brown to black, the coxae somewhat paler basally; 

 clothed with black hair. Legs brown or reddish brown with some 

 dark annulations on the femora, which may be indistinct and which are 

 cormnonly incomplete above and below; the patella;, tibiae and meta- 

 tarsi of the posterior pairs of legs also normally annulate with dark, 

 the patellae showing one ring, the tibiae two and the metatarsi three; 

 the anterior legs not marked beyond the femora; legs densely clothed 

 with gray pubescence, longer black hairs sparse. Abdomen above 

 grayish brown, the pubescence being mixed gray and brown, the gray 

 sometimes arranged over entire dorsum in minute spots and streaks; 

 black pubescence over two angular spots close together in front of 

 middle, these spots forming the angular lateral portion of an else- 

 where faint basal lanceolate outline which bifurcates at its posterior 

 end; a number of less distinct dark transverse chevron-lines behind; 

 a black band or spot crossing over each antero-lateral angle caudally, 

 with pubescence of same color, this band dissolving in the gray and 

 brown pubescence behind; sides of abdomen light brown, densely 

 covered with gray and brown puliescence, these sometimes vmiformly 

 mingled but more commonly intermixed in numerous small spots and 

 streaks; venter with a wide median band of black back of spinnerets, 

 the edges of which are uneven, this band frequently occupying the 

 entire venter; at times the dark band is entirely absent. Epigijmim 

 reddish brown. Spinnerets brown. 



Face low a,nd wide, in height less than half the length of the chelicerae, 

 sides rounded and strongly slanting. Dorsal Une of cephalothorax 

 highest between third eye row and dorsal groove, being convex between 

 eyes and the posterior declivity. 



Anterior row of eyes but slightly procurved, nearly or quite as wide 

 as the second; anterior median eyes their radius apart, closer to the 

 somewhat smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes one and one-half 

 times their diameter from the front margin of clypeus, less than their 

 diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row considerably 

 less than their diameter apart; eyes of third row more than twice as far 

 from each other as from eyes of second row; quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes a little more than one-sixth as long as the cephalothorax. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Chelicerce massive; margins of furrow armed as usual. Labium a 

 little longer than wide (16 :15); basal excavation as usual; attenu- 

 ated anteriorly, the sides below well rounded convexly, straight above; 

 front margin incurved or concave for its entire length. Legs strong, 

 moderately slender distally; tibia + patella IV evidently shorter than 

 the cephalothorax, the metatarsus a little longer than or nearly of the 

 same length as the width of the cephalothorax; tarsi and metatarsi I 

 and II scopulate beneath, tarsi III and IV as usual ; spines of anterior 

 tibiae as usual; patella II armed anteriorly. 



Side ridges and furrows of the epigynum are of the usual form; the 

 guide is of the inversely T-shaped form, the septal piece is enlarged or 

 widened at its middle, being thus more or less fusiform, being narrow 

 adjacent to the transverse arms; transverse piece as long as or a little 

 longer than the median, its arms passing well out laterally behind the 

 lateral tubercles and being scarcely confined at the ends ; guide plates 

 along front of tran verse arms narrow, even more so upon posterior end 

 of septum where they fade out (PI. XVIII, fig. 4). 



Total length, 13 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 6.5 mm.; width, 

 4.7 mm. 



Length of leg I, 14.6 mm.; tib. + pat., 5.3 ram.; met., 3.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 13.9 mm. 



I^ength of leg III, 12.6 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 18.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5.8 mm. ; met., 5 mm, 



Male. — Cephalothorax in color nearly as in the female. Legs lighter. 

 Abdomen with the black bands over the antero-lateral angles more 

 distinctly continuing caudally as a dark band along sides of dorsum, 

 this band behind frequently breaking up into oblique lines and spots; 

 abdomen otherwise as in the female. 



Patella I and II armed both in front and behind. 



Apical portion of tarsus of palpus evidently shorter than the 

 bulb, acute; auricle large and broad, the terminal part of embolus 

 lying in it clearly exposed ; tenaculum at base horizontal and rather 

 stout, then bent forward rather abruptly and becoming very slender. 

 (PI. XVIII, fig. 5.) 



Total length, 10 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5.2 mm.; width, 

 4 mm. 



Length of leg I, 14.1 mm.; tib. + pat., 4.9 mm.; met., 3.2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 12.6 mm. 



Length of leg III, 11.5 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 15.7 mm.; tib. + pat.,- 5 mm.; met., 4.8 mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



Syn.— 1877. Tarentula modesfa Thorell, Bull. U. S. G. S. Terr., 3, No. 2, p. 



520 (name preoccupied by modesta Keys.). 

 1885. Lycosa nigroventris Emerton, Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 488, PI. 47, 



figs. 5 to 5b. 

 1890. Tarentula pudens Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564. 



. Lycosa frondicola, Marx, ibid., p. 561. 



. Lycosa frondicola, Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 42, p. 426. 



1892. Ltjcosa frondicola, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 160. 



— — -. Lycosa frondicola, Fox, op. cit., p. 269. 



. Lycosa frondicola, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 44, p. 64. 



1894. Lycosa modesta, Banks, J. N. Y. E. Soc, 2, p. 50. 



1895. Lycosa modesta. Banks, Ann. N. Y. Ac. Sci., 8, p. 429. 

 . Lycosa frondicola. Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 3, p. 91. 



1902. Lycosa frondicola, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 501, 



PL 30, figs. 28, 29. 

 1904. Trochosa frondicola, Montgomery, ibid., p. 306. 



Type locality. — Massachusetts. 



Known localities. — Massachusetts!, New Hampshire!, Connecticut, 

 Rhode Island!, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, District of 

 Columbia!, Ohio, Indiana, lUinois, Iowa!, Kansas!, Montana!, Utah!, 

 Colorado!, Arizona!. 



From a study of specimens from various places in the West, I am 

 convinced that the species described by Thorell from Colorado as 

 Tarentula modesta is the same as the Eastern L. frondicola, and Thorell's 

 name would have to be used except that it is preoccupied by Keyser- 

 ling's species. In 1890 Marx proposed the name pudens to take the 

 place of modesta; but as the species had been described by Emerton in 

 1885 as frondicola, the latter name must stand. A study of the male 

 specimen upon which L. nigroventris was based convinces me that it 

 is the same as frondicola. 



L. frondicola is a widely distributed species, conmion especially in 

 the central, northern and mountainous parts of the United States. It 

 is found most frequently in and at the edges of woods, among fallen 

 leaves and sticks. Specimens from the dryer parts of the West, as 

 with various other species, show a tendency to lose the dark coloration, 

 especially that of the venter. Some specimens have the venter entirely 

 pale. 



Lycosa pratensis Emerton, 1885. 



(Trans. Conn. Acad., VI, p. 483, PI. XLVI, figs. 4, 4a, 4b.) 

 Female. — A wide median light band, widest between third eye row 

 and dorsal groove, and from there narrowing backward to end of 

 cephalothorax, commonly constricted or indented at groove, also 

 narrowing and passing forward between eyes of third row and reaching 

 those of second row. Tegument of middle band light reddish brow^n 

 clothed with yellowish or brownish-gray pubescence, usually two dark 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



longitudinal lines in wide part in front of dorsal groove; on each side, 

 at a distance above margin greater than its own width, a narrow light 

 band colored hke the median one; elsewhere the tegument deep brown, 

 clothed mostly with dark to blackish-brown pubescence, with grayish 

 intermixed. Chelicene dark reddish brown with grayish-brown pubes- 

 cence. Labium and endites dark brown, inclined to be lighter at tips. 

 Sternum reddish brown, sparsely clothed with a few short hairs of light 

 color and more numerous long bristles of black. Coxce of legs beneath 

 brown, grayish-yellow pubescence much more abundant than on ster- 

 num. Legs brown, darker distall}^, at least femora with rather faint 

 darker rings, which on the two anterior pairs are most distinct on the 

 meso-caudal aspect and on the two posterior pairs on the meso-cephalic 

 aspect; clothed with shorter grayish-yellow pubescence and longer 

 blackish or blackish-brown hair. Abdomen in general color reddish 

 brown, lighter beneath; above with a complicated pattern of black 

 lines, in part as follows : at base a lanceolate outline, giving off on each 

 side near apical third a line running caudo-laterally to dark area at 

 sides, its tip at middle touching apex of a chevron-mark which is 

 followed caudally by a number of similar marks; each chevron-mark 

 commonly double or paired, i.e., consisting of two parallel chevrons 

 separated by a light line, except sometimes at ends; on each side of 

 chevrons irregular darker spots and blotches. The tegument of the 

 sides with spots of black, but that of venter unmarked. The pubes- 

 cence of the abdomen is yellowish-gray and brown in life, or in dry 

 specimens, the pubescence largely concealing the complicated markings 

 of the tegument and so arranged as to produce above two rows of 

 light spots more or less connected by transverse light lines. Sides with 

 light and dark pubescence, more or less in streaks and spots, but venter 

 without markings. Spinnerets brown. Epigynum dark reddish brown. 



Face low, less than half the length of the chelicera; (1 : 2.4), sides 

 convex, widely slanting, about as wide at base as length of chelicerae, 

 high and narrow; in profile dorsal line rather strongly convex. An- 

 terior part of head rounded, the space between third and second rows 

 of eyes sloping rather strongly; the first row of eyes projecting forward 

 so as to be seen clearly from above. 



Front row of eyes straight or slightly recurved, slightly longer than the 

 second ; anterior median eyes their radius apart, closer to the but little 

 smaller side eyes; anterior lateral eyes about their diameter from the 

 front margin of clypeus, closer to eyes of second row; eyes of second 

 row not more than two-thirds their diameter apart; eyes of third row 

 scarcely smaller than of second, their diameter from latter, more than 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



twice as far from each other; quadrangle of posterior eyes about one- 

 fifth as long as the cephalothorax. 



Lower margin of furrow of the chelicera armed with three equidistant 

 conical teeth, these equal in size, the third no smaller than the first. 

 The upper margin with three teeth, the middle, as usual, much largest, 

 the first and third about equal, both usually contiguous with base of 

 second, or the third slightly removed. 



Legs short and moderately slender; tibia + patella of fourth legs 

 shorter than the cephalothorax; metatarsus of fourth legs much 

 shorter than tibia + patella; anterior tarsi slightly curved, others 

 straight; two anterior pair of femora slightly bent forward, last pair 

 slightly bent backward; first and second tarsi scopulate; third and 

 fourth tarsi not truly scopulate, subdensely setulose; tibiae and meta- 

 tarsi of first and second legs armed beneath as usual, patella of these 

 legs imarmed. 



Epigynum as Rgured (PI. XXI, fig. 3). 



Total length, 13 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5.1 mm.; width, 

 3.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 10.9 mm.; tib. -f pat., 4.1 nmi.; met., 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 10.6 mm. 



Length of leg III, 9.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 14 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.8 mm.; met., 3.3 mm. 



Syn. — 1890. Lycosa pratensis, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12. 



1892. Lycosa pratensis, Banks, Proc. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., 44, p. 64. 



1894. Lycosa pratensis Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., IX, p. 422, 

 PI. Ill, fig. IV. 



1895. Lycosa pratensis Emerton, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, III, p. 91. 

 1902. Lycosa pratensis Emerton, Common Sp. U. S., p. 69, figs. 168, 169, 170. 

 1904. Trochosa pratensis, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 303. 



Type locality. — Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire. 



Known localities. — Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire!, 

 New York!, Long Island!, Canada (mountains near Lagan, Lake of 

 Woods, Gaspe, Anticosti, Byron I., Port Hawkesbury). 



According to Emerton, in New England "this is the most com- 

 mon species, under stones and under leaves in winter." Also: "This 

 does not seem to be a very active spider, and is commonly found under 

 stones." 



Its habits in New York I have found similar. 



Lycosa kochii (Keyserling), 1876. 



(Sub Tarentula, Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 636, PI. 7, fig. 18.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax with a pale stripe as wide as third eye row, 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



becoming abruptly a little narrower near posterior end of pars cephalica 

 and then gradually narrowing posteriorly. Tegument of median 

 stripe reddish brown, but quadrangle of posterior eyes often black; 

 median stripe clothed with gray-brown pubescence. Sides of cephalo- 

 thorax darker above and becoming lighter below; clothed with gray- 

 brown pubescence, like that of dorsal stripe, mixed with dark blackish 

 pubescence, the brown hair becoming gradually more abundant from 

 above below but forming no distinct marginal bands. Chelicercc dark 

 red -brown with short light brown pubescence basally and darker longer 

 hairs on distal part. Endites reddish brown, light at tips. Labium 

 darker, blackish, also lighter distally. Sternum dark brown, marked 

 by a faint paler median line, clothed with brownish-gray pubescence and 

 longer black bristles. Coxce of legs beneath a little lighter than 

 sternum. Legs clear brown, entirely unmarked or, more rarely, with 

 indistinct annular markings on femora. Palpi similarly colored. 

 Abdomen with brown-gray, brown and black hair; venter pale, immacu- 

 late; sides above finely streaked and spotted with the darker puljescence 

 among the paler. Anterior face of abdomen with a black transverse 

 band extending over each antero-lateral angle. At base a lanceolate 

 outline, sometimes absent, which behind gives off a number of lines on 

 each caudo-laterally, and is followed behind by a series of chevron- 

 formed lines; in most on each side of dorsum a row of dark angular 

 marks in which the ends of the chevron-lines terminate. Spinnerets 

 brown, densely pubescent. Epigynwn dark reddish brown. 



Cephalothorax highest at posterior eyes, moderately low behind, a 

 little concavated at dorsal groove. Face in height less than half the 

 length -of the chelicerse, its sides convex and widely slanting. 



Anterior row of eyes as long as second, gently procurved; anterior 

 median eyes more than their radius apart, about half as far from the 

 smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes about their diameter from 

 front margin of clypeus, farther from eyes of second row. Eyes of 

 second row separated by three-fourths their diameter or a little more. 

 . Eyes of the third row once and a half again as far from each other as 

 from the eyes of the second row. Quadrangle of posterior eyes about 

 one-fifth the length of the cephalotliorax. 



Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce armed with two equal stout teeth, 

 the upper margin with three as usual. Labium as wide as long; basal 

 excavation less than one-third the total length (1 : 3.6) ; rather strongly 

 attenuated in front with sides above straight or slightly concave below 

 angles; anterior margin indented at middle but sides a little convex. 



Tibia -|- patella of fourth legs shorter than the cephalothorax; tarsi I 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



and II and metatarsi of same legs except at base scopiilate; tarsi of 

 third and fourth legs clothed beneath with bristles. Patellae of first and 

 second legs unarmed . 



Epigynum as figured (PI. XXI, fig. 5). 



Total length, 11.4 mm.; length of cephalothorax, 4.5 mm.; width, 

 3.4 mm. 



Length of leg I, 10.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.9 mm. ; met., 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 10.5 mm. 



Length of leg III, 10.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 14.5 mm.; tib. + pat., 4.8 mm.; met., 4 mm, 



Male. — Colored like female but lighter; femora of legs lighter and 

 clearer brown, tibia and more distal joints darker, reddish brown. 



Patella of second legs with a spine in front. 



Tibia and patella of palpus of same length and thickness, together 

 about equalling the length of the tarsus. For structure of palpal 

 organ see PI. XXI, fig. 4. 



Total length, 9.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.2 mm.; width, 

 3.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 10.7 mm.; tib. + pat., 3.9 mm.; met., 2.4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.6 mm. 



Length of leg III, 8.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 11 mm.; tib. + pat., 3.9 mm.; met., 2.6 mm. 



Type locality. — "North America." 



Knoini localities. — Colorado!, Utah!, Oregon, Arizona!, California!. 



Lycosa gulosa Walckenaer, 1837. 

 (Ins. Apt., 1, p. 33S.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax dark reddish brown crossed by blackish 

 radiating lines ; a wide median light stripe which is constricted between 

 thoracic groove and third eye row and again behind the groove, widest 

 in front of the first constriction, extending to the second eye row in 

 front; the median light brown band clothed with light gray pubescence; 

 on each side a supramarginal irregular edged band of same color and 

 pubescence as the median one; cephalothorax except on light stripes 

 clothed with dark brown pubescence. Chelicerce black, paler distally, 

 clothed for most of length with yellowish pubescence, distally with 

 longer dark brown hairs ; the fringe along furrow rust colored. Labium 

 and endites deep brown, paler at tips. Sternum deep reddish brown 

 or, more rarely, black, clothed with short grayish-brown and longer 

 dark brown pubescence. Coxae of legs beneath brown to reddish- 

 brown, lighter than sternum. Legs reddish brown, all joints except 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the tarsi with black annulations which are usually more distinct 

 proximally and deeper above on femora than ventrally; clothed with 

 brown hair which is also the color of the scopulae. Abdomen above 

 grayish-brown, the pubescence consisting of gray and brown inter- 

 mixed; at base a dark, deeper margined, sublanceolate stripe ending 

 obtusely or bifurcating at the middle, but this basal mark frequently 

 inconspicuous and sometimes absent; posterior portion of dorsum 

 rarely with some dark chevron-shaped cross-lines; a black spot over 

 each antero-lateral angle which is usually followed caudad by a row of 

 dark angular spots and marks along the sides ; sides and venter yellowish 

 or grayish brown, the pubescence, as on dorsum, being light and dark 

 often intermixed in fine spots and streaks; the tegument of venter often 

 showing two pairs of dark lines or stripes converging toward the 

 spinnerets; entire animal darkening with age, the venter then showing 

 usually a broad dark brown to black band over its length from genital 

 furrow to the spinnerets. Spinnerets brown. Epigynum dark red- 

 dish-brown to black. 



Face about half as high as the length of the chelicera?, sides rounded 

 and slanting; width at base less than the length of the chelicerffi. 

 Dorsal line of cephalothorax highest at third eye row, somewhat con- 

 cavated at median furrow. 



Anterior row of eyes considerably shorter than the second (by twice 

 the diameter of a lateral eye or more), moderately procurved; anterior 

 median eyes less than their radius apart; anterior lateral eyes about 

 two-thirds as large as the median, a little less than their diameter from 

 eyes of second row and a little more than their diameter from front 

 margin of clypeus; eyes of second row large, about three-fifths their 

 diameter apart; eyes of third row but little smaller than those of secona 

 (ad. 5:6), more than twice as far from each other as from eyes of second 

 row; quadrangle of posterior eyes between one-fifth and one-sixth the 

 length of the cephalothorax. 



Chelicerce with furrows armed as usual. Labium nearly as wide as 

 long, not much attenuated; front margin concavated. Legs with 

 tibia + patella IV of same length as cephalothorax or a very little 

 longer; metatarsus IV longer than the cephalothorax is wide; anterior 

 tibige and patella armed as usual; tarsi and metatarsi I and II scopulate; 

 tarsi III and IV as usual. 



Epigynum broadly ovate with posterior end widely truncate; side 

 ridges relatively very thick; septal piece of guide in front of enlarged 

 posterior end with sides parallel or nearly so, the femur at its side 

 narrow and not much differing in width from anterior end back to the 

 caudal enlargement of guide (PI. XXI, fig. 7). 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Total length, 14 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 7.7 mm.; width, 

 6 mm. 



Length of leg I, 19.7 mm.; tib. + pat., 7.4 mm.; met., 4.1. mm. 



Length of leg II, 19.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 18.6 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 24.1 mm.; tib. + pat., 7.8 mm. ; met., 6.7 mm. 



Male. — Colored nearly as in the female. Legs dark brown or black- 

 ish distally, showing mostly no rings or marks except on femora. 

 Palpi reddish yellow with ends of joints dark and some dark marks on 

 femora. 



Patella of palpus as long as the tibia, these two joints together of 

 about the same length as the tarsus; terminal portion of palpus a 

 little shorter than the bulb. 



Embolus bending outward and somewhat distally from base, resting 

 upon the lectus only across the auricle, the greater part of its length 

 being supported only by its much elongated basal flap (PI. XXI, fig. 6). 



Total length, 11.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5.5 mm.; width, 

 4.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 19.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7.1 mm. ; met., 4.6 mm. 



Length of leg II. 18.5 mm. 



Length of leg III, 17.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 22.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7 mm. ; met., 6.7 mm. 



gyn._1876. Tarentula pulchra Keyserling, Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 628, 

 pi. 7, figs. 13, 14. ^ . 1 o - ^ 



1885. Lycosa kochii Emerton (nee Keyserling), Trans. Conn. Acad, bci., 6, 

 p. 485, PI. 46. figs. 6 to 6c. 



1890. Lycosa kochii Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 42, p. 426. 



1892. Lycosa kochii Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2. p. 160. 



. Lycosa kochii Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 64. 



1902. Lycosa kochii Emerton, Common Sp. U. S., p. 74, figs. 179, 180. 



Lycosa purcelli Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 566, 



PI. 30, figs. 30, 31. 



1904. Lycosa pulchra (Keys."),Chamberhn, Canad. Ent., p. 14/ . 



■ . Lycosa euepigynata, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 279, 



. Lycosa insopita, Montgomery, ibid., p. 280, PI. XVIII, figs. 3, 4. 



. Trochosa purcelli, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 305. 



Ty2:)e localitij.— "'North America." 



Known localities. ^Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island !, New- 

 Hampshire!, New York!, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, District of 

 Columbia!, Virginia North Carolina!, Alabama!, Mississippi!, Texas!, 

 Kansas!, Indiana, Utah! 



Types in collection of Dr. Koch. 



A strongly marked and widely distributed species which, as might 

 be expected, is subject to some variations in size and coloration. The 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



epigynum and the peculiar palpus of the male are constant in essential 

 features and at once reveal the species beneath more superficial differ- 

 ences. The pattern of the markings on the legs, the cephalothorax 

 and of the dorsum of abdomen remain pretty nearly the same alwa3's 

 except as to depth and distinctness of the colors. The venter of the 

 abdomen becomes dark or even black with age, the entire animal also 

 then taking on a darker color. 



Lycosa modesta (Keyserling), 1876. 



(Sub Tarentula, Verh. z. b. Ges. Wien, p. 626, PI. VIT, f5gs. 11, 12.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax with a light median band as wide as space 

 between eyes of third row; sides of median band nearly straight or 

 slightly curved convexly, converging gradually caudally, in front reach- 

 ing eyes of second row but there commonly darker; median band with 

 tegument light reddish brown, darker between eyes, clothed with brown- 

 gray pubescence; on each side a narrow marginal and a narrow supra- 

 marginal line of gray pubescence like that upon middle band, the two 

 marginal hues often indistinctly separated , Sides of cephalothorax deep 

 brown or nearly black, clothed with mixed dark brown and brownish- 

 gray pubescence, the gray arranged in radiating streaks, more abundant 

 below. CheHcerce dark red-brown, lighter distally, clothed with dark 

 brown hairs except below and along furrow, where they are lighter and 

 clearer. Labium and endites dark brown, light at tips. Sternum 

 shining reddish black or deep brown, sparsely provided with dark 

 hairs about borders. Coxce beneath dark brown, paler at bases. 

 Legs brown, darker distally, especially the tibia and metatarsus, 

 the tai'sus being lighter on anterior pairs; annuli above, which are more 

 obscure beneath, clothed with shorter gray and more sparse longer and 

 stiffer hairs. Scopulse grizzly brown. Abdomen having the tegument 

 brown mottled with light and dark; a black lanceolate outline at base 

 which on each side posteriorly gives off a number of lines caudo- 

 laterally, the basal mark sometimes absent; lanceolate mark followed 

 behind by a series of black transverse chevron-lines; in most on each 

 side of the dorsum behind a row of white spots in which the ends of 

 the dark chevron-lines terminate, these spots formed of bunches of 

 white hair; a black mark over each antero-lateral angle; sides 

 brown with darker mottlings and streaks and spots of gray or whitish 

 hair. Venter black with some light spots at sides. Pubescence of 

 abdomen is light gray or white and a darker color, dark smoky gray to 

 black, the latter found unmixed on venter, the former predominat- 

 ing above. Spinnerets brown. Epigynum reddish brown and figured. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Cephalothorax moderately high and steep sided, relatively wide in 

 front. In profile line of dorsum highest behind third eye row, con- 

 cavated at front of dorsal furrow. Face low, in height hardly half the 

 length of the chelicerae. Face at base about wide as length of cheli- 

 cerse, sides more than usually widely slanting, more convex below. 



Anterior row of eyes a little shorter than the second, procurved; 

 anterior median about their radius apart, twice as large in diameter as 

 the lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes nearly their diameter from the 

 front margin of the elypeus, more than their diameter from eyes of 

 second row; anterior median eyes less than half their diameter from 

 eyes of second row and nearly as close to front margin of elypeus ; eyes 

 of second row scarcely more than half their diameter apart, two-thirds 

 their diameter from eyes of third row which are two-thirds or a little 

 more as large; eyes of third row twice as far from each other as from 

 eyes of second row. Cephalothorax 5.5 times as long as the quad- 

 rangle of posterior eyes. 



Legs short, the fourth pair less than three times the length of the 

 cephalothorax; tibia -f- patella IV shorter than the cephalothorax; 

 metatarsus IV shorter than tibia + patella ; tarsi and metatarsi I and 

 II scopulate, the scopulse not dense; tarsi III and IV with very thin 

 scopulse at sides, the ventral surface mostly occupied by a broad band 

 of long setse; tibia + metatarsus I and II armed as usual beneath; 

 patella I and II unarmed. 



Total length, 11.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.9 mm.; width, 

 3. 7. mm. 



Length of leg, I, 9.8 mm.; tib. -|- pat., 3.7 mm.; met., 1.8 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.3 mm. 



Length of leg III, 9.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 12.6 mm.; tib. -h pat., 4 mm.; met., 3.5 mm. 



Male. — Cephalothorax relatively narrower in front than in female 

 and more depressed. Patella I and II unarmed. Tibia + patella IV 

 shorter than cephalothorax. 



Patella as long as tibia, the latter thick distally. Femur laterally 

 compressed above with 1,1,3 spines. 



Total length, 8.4 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.6 mm.; width, 

 3.4 mm. 



Length of leg I, 11.9 mm.; tib. 4- pat., 4.3 mm.; met., 2.7 mm. 



Ijength of leg II, 10.2 mm. 



Length of leg III, 10 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 13.4 mm. ; tib. -!- pat., 4.4 mm. ; met., 2.7 mm. 

 18 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Syn.— 1890. Tarcntula modesta, Marx, P. U. S. N. M., p. 564. 



1902. Lycosa sepulchralis Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 543, 

 PI. XXIX, fig. 7. 



1903. Lycosa sepulchralis Montgomery, ibid., p. 645, PI. 29, fig. 7. 



1904. Trochosa sepulchralis, Montgomery, ibid., p. 307. 



Type locality. — Maryland (Baltimore). 



Habitat. — Maryland, District of Columbia, Pennsylvania!, Texas!. 



Lycosa pictilis Emerton, 1885. 



(Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 485, PI. 46, figs. 5 to 5b.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax with a median grayish band (of pubescence) 

 which, beginning at the second eye row, passes between the eyes of 

 third row and then abruptly bulges on each side, being much wider 

 than eye area midway between eyes and dorsal groove, then narrowing 

 to dorsal groove where it is about same width as eye area; parallel 

 sided to posterior declivity and then narrowing down the declivity; the 

 median band, while chiefly of gray hair, has intermixed brown hair 

 which is more abundant anteriorly between eyes; in wide area back of 

 eyes an intramarginal line on each side is formed of brown hair, these 

 lines being parallel to the sides and merging together in the brown 

 between the eyes. Sides of cephalothorax chocolate brown, clothed 

 with brown pubescence; a narrow marginal and a similar supramarginal 

 line of grayish hair on each side. Chelicerce reddish black. Labium 

 with gray pubescence. Sternum blackish brown.. Coxce of legs 

 beneath paler brown like other joints of legs. Legs dark brown; 

 femora lighter beneath on basal half, apically on most femora two 

 interrupted light rings and a few hght, transverse marks above else- 

 where. Tibia with several light rings, which on the anterior pair may 

 be confluent beneath; other joints unmarked. Abdomen beneath at 

 sides dusky brown, having a ]:)lackish-brown tegument covered with 

 brown hair, rather darker on sides above; a black spot on each antero- 

 lateral angle which encloses a light spot, the latter nearly breaking 

 through lower margin of spot; mesally from the black spot is a large 

 light spot on each side; along the inner posterior margin of each of 

 these orange spots being a short oblique black line, the two lines not 

 meeting in the middle; posteriorly is a series of median black 

 chevron-marks, the first divided or nearly so at middle; at the outer 

 end of each of the chevrons is a light spot enclosed by black, the 

 light spots thus forming a lateral series on each side; in front of 

 each half of each chevron is a light colored spot; these spots in front 

 of the posterior chevrons confluent. The series of light spots on 

 each side in life covered with grayish or gray pubescence; the large 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



light spots in front covered with orange-colored or with rusty-brown 

 hair and connected at middle with gray hair; light transverse marks in 

 front of posterior chevrons covered with gray hair; middle of dorsum 

 in front covered with mostly gray and with fewer brown hairs. Epigy- 

 num and spinnerets black-brown. Legs over the light spots with 

 partly gray pubescence ; pubescence elsewhere brown. 



Median dorsal line of cephalothorax straight, not depressed at dorsal 

 furrow. Sides of face convex and widely slanting. 



Anterior row of eyes procurved, but little shorter than the second 

 row; anterior lateral eyes their diameter or a little farther from front 

 margin of the clypeus, a little farther from eyes of second row; anterior 

 median eyes less than their diameter apart (four-sevenths), closer to 

 the smaller lateral eyes (1 : 1.7); eyes of second row fully their diam- 

 eter apart; anterior median eyes about their diameter from eyes of 

 second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes as wide in front as long, 

 about one-fifth as long as the cephalothorax. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. XIX, fig. 8. 



Total length, 11.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5 mm.; width, 

 3.6 mm. 



Length of leg I, 13.1 mm. ; tib. -|- pat., 4 mm. ; met., 2.3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 11 mm. 



Length of leg III, 10.5 nun. 



Length of leg IV, 14.9 mm. ; tib. 4- pat., 4.6 mm. ; met., 4.1 mm. 



Male. — Coloration of cephalothorax and legs nearly as in female. 

 Abdomen with nearly same markings but black spot over front angles 

 circular, not enclosing a light spot ; venter with gray pubescence ; gray 

 pubescence of dorsum much more abundant than in female, the rusty 

 colored pubescence largely replaced by it. 



Tarsus of palpus some (11 : 13) shorter than the tibia + patella; 

 patella and tibia of about same thickness, the former slightly longer; 

 tibia but slightly thickened distally; tarsus clearly wider than tibia 

 (5:4). 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XIX, fig. 6. 



Total length, 9.3 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5.3 mm.; width, 

 3.9 mm. 



Length of leg I, 13.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.5 mm. ; met., 3.3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 12.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 12.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 16.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5 mm. ; met., 4.7 mm. 



Syn. — Lycosa pictilis, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 287, PI. 

 XVIII, figs. 7, 8. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Locality. — New Hampshire !. 



"This very distinct species is abundant among the moss and low 

 slirubs on the upper part of Mt, Washington, New Hampshire, and the 

 neighboring mountains," 



The descriptions above are based upon the type specimens. 



Lyoosa fumosa Emerton, 1894. 



(Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 421, PI. 3, figs. 1, la.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax nearly black, of a reddish tinge. Chelicerce 

 the same color as cephalothorax. Labium and endites lighter in 

 color than cephalothorax, pale distally. Sternum similar to cephalo- 

 thorax but lighter. Coxm of legs beneath brown, clearly paler than 

 sternum. Legs a little lighter and more reddish than cephalothorax, 

 the femora slightly darker than other joints, all joints unmarked 

 or the femora with a few faint light spots. Palpi like legs. Cephalo- 

 thorax, sternum and legs clothed with gray-brown pubescence, being 

 probably bleached in the alcohol. Ahdomen entirely black, slightly, 

 paler beneath especially in front of lung-slits, clothed with brown 

 pubescence; pubescence of entire bod 3^ and legs rather dense. 



Cephalothorax comparatively low, angularly depressed in profile at 

 dorsal groove. Face one-half as high as the length of the chelicerje. 

 Anterior row of eyes of the same length as the second or very nearly so, 

 nearly straight, the center of lateral eyes being but slightly lower; 

 anterior median eyes slightly smaller than the lateral ; the tubercles of 

 the lateral eyes increase their apparent size: anterior median eyes 

 their full diameter apart, same distance from the lateral eyes, more 

 than their diameter f i-om eyes of second row ; anterior lateral eyes more 

 than their diameter from eyes of second row (nearly one and one-third), 

 closer, but little more than diameter, from front margin of clypeus; 

 eyes of second row not fully their diameter apart; eyes of third row 

 three-fourths as large as those of second; quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes a little wider in front than long (11.5 : 10) unusually wide behind, 

 being there nearly twice as wide as long (19 : 10), the pars cephalica 

 being wider than usual and the third eyes set well out laterally; the 

 quadrangle of posterior eyes between one-fifth and one-sixth as long as 

 the cephalothorax (about 1 : 5.6). 



Lower margin of the furrow of the chelicerce with three stout teeth, 

 the third being a little stouter than the others; the first two with 

 posterior face more curved than the anterior and so appearing bent 

 forward; upper margin with three teeth, the first minute, the middle 

 stout and acute as usual, the third as long as median but more slender. 




1908.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Legs with the anterior tibise armed beneath with three pair of spines, 

 these short as usual, the apical pair reduced; anterior patella armed 

 behind ; tibiae II armed in front and behind ; tibia + patella IV a little 

 longer than cephalothorax, shorter than tibia + patella I. 



Total length, 16 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 7 mm.; width, 

 5.8 mm. 



For structure of epigijnum see PI. XIX, fig. 2. 



Length of leg I, 2L6 mm.; tib. + pat., 8.2 mm.; met., 5 nun. 



Length of leg II, 21.6 mm. 



Length of leg III, 18.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 23.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 8 mm. ; met., 7 mm. 



Male. — Cephalothorax, chelicerw and sternum blackish. Labium, 

 endites and cozce of legs beneath dark brown, as in female. Pubes- 

 cence throughout brown, dense. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XIX, fig. 3. 



Total length, 11 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 6 mm.; width, 

 5 mm. 



Length of leg I, 23.6 mm.; tib. + pat., 8 mm.; met., 6.8 mm. 



Length of leg II, 2.3 mm. 



Length of leg III, 21.6 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 24.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7.7 mm. ; met., 7.7 mm. 



Locality. — Canada !. 



The description above was taken from the types. 



Lycosa beanii Emerton, 1894. 



(Tr. Conn. Aoad. Sci., 19, p. 421, PI. 3, figs. 2 to 2b.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax and eye region blackish brown; 

 back of eyes a lighter reddish brown median stripe as wide as the 

 eye area ; the median stripe narrowing distinctly to posterior declivity, 

 constricted in front of dorsal groove, widening out again at posterior 

 margin. No light colored lateral stripes. Chelicerce blackish or black- 

 ish brown. Labium and endites reddish brown. Sternum deep brown, 

 faintly paler along middle. Coxa of legs beneath distinctly lighter than 

 sternum, brown. Legs brown, paler than sides of cephalothorax, entirely 

 unmarked below but femora above and on sides, especially on posterior 

 pairs, with rather indistinct closely arranged dark and light transverse 

 markings. Abdomen brown down middle, blackish brown across front 

 declivity and in a band passing over each antero-lateral angle and 

 down the side of dorsum. A dark basal lanceolate mark evident 

 reaching the middle of dorsum behind. Posteriorly a series of dark 

 angular bars crossing from side to side, leaving light colored chevrons 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ' [May, 



between, farther forward, at and just behind the middle, the sides of 

 the dark lateral bands simply dentate, the teeth not connected across 

 middle. Sides becoming lighter from above below, the lower portion 

 and the venter rather light brown, the venter appearing to have been 

 somewhat darker down its middle behind lung-slits in life. Spinnerets 

 brown. Epigynum dark reddish brown. 



Cephalothorax highest as usual at third eye only slightly descending 

 posteriorly ; the dorsal line nearly horizontal, a little depressed at dorsal 

 groove. Face with sides sloping moderately, in height about half the 

 length of the chelicerse. Anterior row of eyes clearly shorter than the 

 second, procurved; diameter of anterior median eyes is to diameter of 

 eye of second row as 1 : 2.2 ; anterior lateral eyes once and a half their 

 diameter from margin of clypeus, a little closer to eyes of second row; 

 anterior median eyes their diameter from eyes of second row, and 

 one-half their diameter apart, scarcely closer to lateral eyes (which are 

 scarcely smaller) ; eyes of second row a little more than three-fourths 

 their diameter apart; posterior quadrangle of same length and breadth, 

 wider behind than in front in ratio of nearly 9.25 : 7, and about one- 

 fifth as long as cephalothorax. 



Lower margin of the furi-ow of the chelicerce with two stout and 

 equal teeth; upper margin of the furrow with three teeth, the first of 

 these is low but wide and bluntly rounded, the second as usual much 

 largest, conical and acute, the third of intermediate size, shaped like 

 the second. 



Tarsi of legs not curved, all straight; first two pairs of femora bent 

 forward ; third femora nearly straight, scarcely bent backward ; fourth 

 femora a little bent backward. Scopulx distributed about as usual 

 but rather sparse, divided by setose band on all tarsi !. 



Epigynum 1 mm. wide and about same length {i.e., shorter than 

 any of coxae, the third of which is 1.6 mm. long) (PI. XIX, fig. 5). 



Total length, 12 mm. I^ength of cephalothorax, 5.3 mm. ; width, 

 3.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 11.6 mm. ; tib. -I- pat., 6.4 mm. ; met., 2.4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 10.9 mm. 



Length of leg III, 10.4 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 14.2 mm. ; tib. -|- pat., 4.2 mm. ; met., 4.2 mm. 



Male. — Coloration very nearly the same as in female. Legs not at all 

 marked, the first and second femora darker than posterior ones, first 

 tibia also darker. Palpi darker than in the female, the tarsi a little 

 darker than other joints. Irmer margins of dark lateral bands of 

 dorsum dentate and serrate, but not with any connecting angular or 

 chevron-shaped marks across middle. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XIX, fig. 4. 

 Total length, 8.S mm. Ijength of cephalothorax, 4.5 mm.; width, 

 3.3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 10.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.7 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 9.6 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 12.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4 mm. ; met., 3.6 mm. 



Locality. — Canada !. 



The descriptions above are from the types. 



Lycosa albohastata Emerton, 1894. 



(Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 423, PI. 3, figs. 3 to 36.) 

 Male. — Cephalothorax with a wide median band of reddish-brown 

 color extending to clj^peus anteriorly; in front this band is as wide as the 

 clypeus and wider than the eye area, narrowing gradually and con- 

 stantly backward to a point at posterior margin, the sides nearly 

 straight ; this band appears to have been clothed in life with light gray 

 pubescence. Sides of cephalothorax dark brown, i)resenting a reddish- 

 brown background covered with radiating blackish lines which are more 

 or less confluent above and below. Chelicene reddish brown. Labium 

 and endites brown, paler distally. Sternum black or very nearly so. 

 Coxaz beneath brown. Legs brown of orange hue; all joints except 

 tarsi with black annuli, these annuli incomplete beneath except on 

 femora where they are most distinct. Abdomen with a light basal 

 mark, the sides of which are nearly parallel to its middle, then narrowed 

 to a truncate point at middle of abdomen; this basal mark is densely 

 clothed with Avhite hairs and is margined at sides and behind by black, 

 mostly broken into irregularly elongated spots, from the sides of this 

 black extend somewhat broken lines of black more or less obliquely 

 outward and backward, the last two lines extending froni the angles of 

 the truncate apex of basal mark; behind in the middle is a series of 

 transverse black lines, and along each side a number of black dots; 

 on each side of dorsum behind a row of light spots clothed with whitish 

 hairs; the background of abdomen above orange-brown; sides of abdo- 

 men orange-brown mottled with numerous irregular black dots and 

 marks; venter with clear orange-brown, darkened in front of lung-slits 

 and along a narrow border laterally and posteriorly. Palpi \\\X]\ the 

 femora black, not distinctly ringed, the patella and tibia orange, the 

 tarsus darker, blackish. Pubescence on entire body except where 

 stated otherwise orange-brown. 



Face as compared with chelicerie low and relatively wide, the length 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



of the chelicerse being about two and one-half times as great as the 

 height of the face; sides sloping and rounded as usual. Anterior row of 

 eyes slightly procurved, nearly as long as the second; anterior median 

 eyes three-fourths their diameter apart; anterior lateral eyes three- 

 fourths as large as the median, closer to the median than the latter are 

 to each other (2 : 3) ; anterior lateral eyes their diameter from front 

 margin of clypeus and the same distance from eyes of second row; 

 anterior median eyes scarcely more than one-half their diameter from 

 eyes of second row; eyes of second row slightly more than twice as large 

 in diameter as the anterior median eyes (9 : 4) ; quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes as wide in front as long; wider behind than in front in ratio of 

 6.3 : 4.6; between one-fourth and one-fifth as long as cephalothorax. 



Lower margin of the furrow of the chelicerce with three teeth which are 

 stout and conical, the third a little reduced ; upper mai'gin w ith three 

 teeth as usual, the first minute. Labium of usual shape, slightly 

 curved for entire width. Legs with tibia -t- patella IV of same length 

 as the cephalothorax; metatarsus distinctly longer than the width of 

 the cephalothorax; both the posterior and the anterior tarsi with the 

 scopuljB divided by a median setose band, the anterior metatarsi with 

 only sparse scopular hairs. 



Tibia of -palpus of same length as patella and of same thickness 

 proximally, the tibia widening moderately distally; tibia and patella 

 together a little longer than the tarsus. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XIX, fig. 1. 



Total length, 6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.; width, 

 2.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.2 mm. ; tib. 4- pat., 2.8 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 7.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 7.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 9.6 mm. ; tib. -I- pat., 3 mm. ; met., 2.7 mm. 



Female. — Coloration of the female is nearly same throughout as male. 

 Eye arrangement and general structure as for the male. Legs with 

 tibia + patella shorter than the length of the cephalothorax; meta- 

 tarsus IV very little longer than cephalothorax is wide. 



The epigynum of specimen studied (type) is not entirely adult. 



Total length, 7.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.7 mm.; width, 

 2.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8 mm. ; tib. -f pat., 2.9 mm. ; met., 1.8 mm. 



Length of leg II, 7.9 mm. 



Length of leg III, 7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 11.1 mm. ; tib. -t- pat., 3.2 mm. ; met., 2.9 mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



Locality. — Laggan, Canada!. 



The description above was taken from the types. Two males from 

 the valley near I^aggan and young females from the neighboring 

 mountains 6,000 to 7,000 feet high. 



Lycosa quinaria Emerton, 1894. 



(Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 422, PI. 3, figs. 5, 5a.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax dark reddish brown without markings. 

 Chelicene reddish black. Labium and endites colored like cephalothorax, 

 the endites scarcely paler distally, the labium not paler distally.' Sternum 

 like cephalothorax. Coxce beneath lighter than sternum. Legs red- 

 dish brown, paler beneath, immarked except for a few fine and incon- 

 spicuous longitudinal black hues, which are most distinct on femora, 

 on each of which there is one on the dorsal surface. Abdomen dark 

 brownish or gray, faintly paler along the middle, with a series of incon- 

 spicuous black marks each side. Epigynum reddish brown. Spinnerets 

 concolorous with abdomen. 



Cephalothorax shaped about as usual. Face with sides rounded and 

 widely sloping, in height about haK the length of the chelicerae. 



Anterior row of eyes well procurved, a line passing through the center 

 of the median eyes l^eing tangent to the posterior margins of the lateral 

 eyes ; anterior median eyes less than their diameter apart (five-sevenths) 

 some closer to the subequal lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus, a little farther from eyes of 

 second row; anterior median ej^es their diameter from eyes of second 

 row; eyes of second row four-fifths their diameter apart ; quadrangle of 

 posterior eyes a little wider in front than long (9.75 : 6.75) ; between one- 

 fifth and one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax (nearly 5.5 : 1). 



Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with three teeth equal in size or, if 

 any different, the third largest, moderately stout and acute ; upper 

 margin with three teeth of usual proportions. 



Legs stout; tarsi all straight, not at all curved; third femora straight; 

 fourth femora a little bent backward, not excavated behind ; second and 

 first femora bent forward and their anterior sides moderately exca- 

 vated near middle; tarsi and metatarsi of legs I and II scopulate; tarsi 

 of legs III and IV divided by a median setose band as usual. 



Total length, 10 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5.2 mm.; width, 

 4 mm. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. XIX, fig. 7. 



Length of leg I, 12 mm.; tib. + pat., 4.4 mm.; met., 2.6 mm. 



Length of leg II, 11.6 mm. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Length of leg III, 11.4 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 15.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.9 mm. ; met., 4.6 mm. 

 Locality. — Canada (Alberta) !. 



The types are two females collected by J. B. Tyrrell in IS86, and from 

 these the description above was made. 



Lycosa rubicunda (Keys.), 1876. 



Female. — Cephalothorax with a light brown median band which 

 expands anteriorly so as to enclose the eye area, than which it is much 

 wider ant^riorl}- ; reaching front margin of clypeus; behind eyes it 

 narrows rapidly, running almost to a point at dorsal groove, here 

 usually sending out a narrow branch on each side and behind continu- 

 ing as a narrow line to end of cephalothorax. Pubescence of median 

 band light or yellowish brown, rather sparse. Sides of cephalothorax 

 dark reddish brown, pubescence sparse; a marginal light band each 

 side, of same color and pubescence as median band. Sometimes 

 uniform in color, without distinct markings. Cephalothorax appearing 

 polished even when not rubbed because of sparseness of pubescence. 

 Chelicene dark reddish brown clothed with moderately long brown 

 pubescence. Labium and endites brown, light distally. Sternum and 

 coxte of legs beneath brown. Legs brown, paler beneath, usually with 

 dark annuli which are obscure or absent beneath but distinct above. 

 Abdomen with yellowish-brown and black pubescence ; at base a lanceo- 

 late outline reaching to middle, from each side giving off latero-caudally 

 a series of dark lines and followed behind by a series of chevron-marks; 

 sides of dorsum with numerous dark dots and dashes; venter grayish 

 brown with some dark spots and a narrow dark median line extending 

 from spinnerets forward and widening in front to enclose the epigynum 

 and sometimes also widening about spinnerets. Spinnerets yellowish. 

 Epigynum reddish brown. 



Cephalothorax high, with the sides steep; rather narrow, the sides 

 beliind not strongly bulging. Pars cephalica long; in profile line of 

 dorsum conspicuously arched, rounded in front, the highest point 

 behind eyes of third row. Face low, in height considerably less than 

 half the length of the chelicerie; sides of face convex, widely slanting. 



First eye row clearly longer than second, slightly recurved; anterior 

 median eyes less than their radius apart, half as far from the smaller 

 lateral eyes ; anterior lateral eyes their diameter from front margin of 

 clypeus, less than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of 

 second row about half their diameter apart, a little farther from the 

 but little smaller eyes of third row, which are fully four times as far 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



from each other; third row twice the diameter of one of its eyes, wider 

 than second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes much wider than long; 

 cephalothorax six and a half times the length of the quadrangle of 

 posterior eyes. 



Teeth of margins of furrow of chelicerce as usual. 



Legs short and moderately stout, the fourth pair less than three times 

 the length of cephalothorax; tibia + patella of fourth legs shorter than 

 cephalothorax, metatarsus of fourth legs clearly shorter than tibia + 

 patella; tarsi I and II and distal part of metatai-si I and II scopulate, 

 scopulffi not dense. Tarsi III and IV with sparse scopular hairs laterally 

 elsewhere clothed with long bristles. 



Tibia) and metatarsi I and II armed beneath as usual, the spines 

 rather small and slender. Patella I and II each armed in front with a 

 single spine. 



Epigynum as figured (PI. XIX, fig. 9). 



Total length, 9.6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.5 mm.; width, 

 3.3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 9.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.6 mm. : met., 1.9 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 8.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 12.1 nun.; tib. + pat., 4 mm.; met., 3.2 mm. 



^^™~;i^^^- ^y^o^f^ PoUta Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 484 

 PI. 46, figs. 2, 2o, 26, 2c. > > i' , 



1S90. Lycosa polita, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 563. 



. Trochosa rubicundn, Marx, ibid., p. 564. 



1892. Lycosa polita, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 44 p 66 



. Lycosa polita, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 160.' ' 



. Lycosa polita, Fox, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 267. 



189.3. Lycosa rubicunda Keyserling, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc. I p 125 



1894. Lycosa polita Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad., 9, p. 422. ' ' 



1902. Lycosa polita Emerton, Common Spiders of U. S., p. 70, fig. 171. 



1904. Trochosa rubicunda, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 

 307, PI. XIX, fig. 30. 



Type locality.— Eastern Massachusetts; Albany, New York; New 

 Haven, Connecticut. 



Known localities.— Massachusetts, Connecticut!, Rhode Island!, New 

 York !, Indiana, District of Columbia. 



" Under stones in summer and under leaves in winter. Eggs in June 

 and July." 



Lycosa avara (Keyserling), 1876. 



(Sub Trochosa, Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 661, Pi. VIII, figs. 38, 39.) 

 Female.— Cephalothorax with a light median band widest between 

 third eyes and dorsal groove where it is as wide as third e3'e row; 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



somewhat abruptly contracted at front of groove and then gradually 

 narrowing to posterior end of cephalotborax, reaching second eye row 

 in front; tegument of median band light brown clothed with yellow or 

 brown-gray pubescence; on each side a narrow marginal and a wider 

 supramarginal band of same color and pubescence as the median one; 

 sides of cephalothorax elsewhere with dark reddish brown tegument, the 

 pubescence over which is mixed light brown and blackish. Region about 

 eyes usually blackish. Chelicerce dark red-brown, the lateral condyles 

 red, the claw also reddish. Labium and enclites dark reddish brown, 

 paler at tips. Sternum lighter reddish brown, with shorter brown gray 

 pubescence and longer black bristles. Coxce of legs beneath brown. 

 Legs brown with indistinct darker annuli, clothed with shorter and more 

 dense gray pubescence and longer dark brown or blackish bristles. Tegu- 

 ment of ahdomen above reddish brown, lighter beneath; pubescence 

 above intermixed gray and. brown and with black forming a mostly 

 obscure lanceolate outline at base and scattered spots; sides and venter 

 also with small darker streaks and spots in the pubescence; pubescence 

 beneath lighter than above. Spinnerets brown. Epigynum reddish 

 brown. 



Sides of face convex, slanting outward, a little less than half as high 

 as the chelicerae are long, at base nearly as wide as length of chelicerse; 

 in profile line of dorsum highest at third eyes, convex between third 

 eyes and posterior declivity. 



Anterior row of eyes slightly procurved, scarcely shorter than the 

 second ; anterior median eyes less than their radius apart, as far from 

 the smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes not fully one-half their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus and about their diameter from 

 eyes of second row; eyes of second row, considerably less than their 

 diameter apart, scarcely farther from eyes of third row, which as 

 usual are more than twice as far from each other; eyes of third row 

 smaller than those of second nearly in ratio of 2.5 : 3. Quadrangle of 

 posterior eyes one-fifth the length of cephalothorax. 



Three equal and equidistant conical teeth along lower margin of 

 furrow of chelicerce; upper margin of furrow with three teeth as usual, 

 the first and third nearly equal, the third more removed from second. 



Legs slender; tibia + patella IV shorter than cephalothorax; meta- 

 tarsus IV scarcely shorter than tibia + pateUa; posterior femora (IV) 

 bent backward, second anterior pair of femora a little curved forward ; 

 tarsi I and II a little carved, tarsi III and IV with scopulae divided by 

 median setose bands; both tarsi and metatarsi I and II scopulate for 

 entire length ; tibiae and metatarsi I and II armed as usual ; patella I 

 and II not armed. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



For epigynum see PI. XX, fig. 2. 



Total length, 13 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5 mm.; width, 

 3.7 mm. 



Length of leg I, 10.8 mm.; tib. + pat., 3.9 mm.; met., 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 10.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 10.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 13.7 mm.; tib. + pat., 4.1 mm.; met., 4 mm. 



Male. — For structure of palpus see PI. XX, figs. 1, 3. 



Total length, 8 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.9 mm. ; width, 

 3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 10.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.9 mm. ; met., 2.3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 10.2 mm. 



Length of leg III, 9.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 11.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.3 mm. ; met., 2.3 mm. 



Syn.— 1892. Lycosa rufiventris Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 65, 



PI. 3, fin;. 35. 

 1895. Lycosa rufiventris Banks, J. N. Y. E. Soc, 3, p. 91. 



1903. Lijcosa avara, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 650, PI. 

 XXIX; fig. 2. 



1904. Trochosa avara, Montgomery, ibid., p. 304, PI. XX, fig. 42. 



Known /omZi^tes.— Massachusetts, New York !, Texas !, Kansas !, Iowa !. 



Var. gosiuta, new. 



Females from Utah thus far seen differ a little from the type form in 

 the shape of the epigynum. The blunt process at distal end of guide in 

 avara proper is absent in this variety, and the lateral ends of the trans- 

 verse arms extend foi-ward beyond the middle of the fovese (PL 

 XX, fig. 4). 



Locality. — Utah !. 



Lycosa cineroa (Fab.), 1793. 



(Sub Araneus, Ent. Syst., II, p. 423.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax with the tegument marked with a broad 

 median band which is wider than the eye area and covers clypeus in 

 front; this band constricted back of eye area and again, more strongly, 

 at posterior limit of pars cephalica, back of which its edges are irregu- 

 lar or toothed, and widening triangularly down the posterior declivity, 

 across the lower border of which it is united with the broad lateral bands 

 of the same color; the pale lateral bands extending forward only to the 

 pars cephalica, with upper margin toothed ; except for these light bands 

 the cephalothorax is dark chocolate-brown; in life the cephalothorax 

 is densely covered with white and gray hair intermixed in spots and 

 streaks, radiating more or less from the dorsum laterally. Chelicerce 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Ma}^ 



black, clothed with gra}^ or grayish-brown hair. Legs with clear brown 

 tegument which is itself faintly annulate, the clothing of white hair 

 making the annulation much more distinct. The abdomen having on 

 dorsum a median gray band which is margined on each side anteriorly 

 with a black stripe, continued posteriorly by a row of black dots which 

 in life are ocellate with central patches of white hair; the median light 

 band enclosing anteriorly a hastate outline which is open anteriorly and 

 is bifurcate behind; sides of abdomen white spotted with black ; venter 

 white in life, but the tegument denuded of hair commonly shows a 

 smoky band from genital furrow to spinnerets. Spinnerets brown. 

 Coxce and sternum brown, the latter dusky marginally. Labium 

 brownish black. Endites brown. The general color effect of this 

 species in life is that of a dusky-white body marked with small spots 

 and streaks of gray and black. 



Cephalothorax highest at middle of pars cephalica some distance back 

 of third eye row. The third eyes upon a plane strongly sloped antero- 

 ventrally, the face more strongly slanting. First eye row of about same 

 length as the second. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. XX, fig. 6. 



Total length, 11.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 6.2 mm.; width, 

 4.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 13.8 mm. ; tib. -I- pat., 4.8 mm. ; met., 3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 12.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 12 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 17 nam. ; tib. + pat., 5.5 mm. ; met., 4.2 mm. 



Male. — Coloration as in female or nearly so. For structure of palpal 

 organ see PI. XX, fig. 5. A specimen gave the following measure- 

 ments : 



Total length, 9.8 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5.1 mm.; width, 

 4 mm. 



Length of leg 1, 12.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4 mm. ; met., 3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 11.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 11 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 14.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.8 mm. ; met., 4 mm, 



Syn. — 1831. Lycosa lynx Hahn, Die Arachn., II, p. 13, fig. 194. 



1841 . Lycosa maritima Hentz. 



1848. LTjcosa halodroma C. Koch, Die Arachn., V, p. 190, figs. 410, 411. 



. Arctosa cineren C. Koch, ibid., XIV, p. 123, fig. 1358. 



. Ardosn lynx- C. Koch, ibid., p. 133, fig. 1364. 



1875. Lycosa maritima Hentz, Spiders U. S., ed. Burgess. 



1885. Lycosa cinerea, Emerton, New England Lycos., Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 



VI, p. 488, PI. 47, fig. 3. 

 1889. Trochosa cinerea Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., p. 564. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



1902. Lycosa cinerea Emerton, Common Sp. U. S. 



. Lycosa cinerea Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 555 PI 



XXIX, figs. 17, 18. » 1 , • 



1904. Trochosa cinerea, Montgomery, ibid., p. 305, PI. XX, fig. 43. 



Type locality. — Europe. 



Known localities. — Massachusetts, Connecticut, Indiana, New Jersey, 

 New York (Long Island !), South Carolina, Utah !, Arizona, New Mexico, 

 Texas. 



A common form along the Atlantic seashore. Its color of dirty 

 white finely marked with streaks and spots of gray and black harmon- 

 izes with that of the sand over which it runs. 



Lycosa floridiana (Banks). 



(Sub Trochosa, Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, Vol. XXIII, p. 72.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax with a broad median yellow stripe wider 

 than the eye area in front, and narrowing gradually caudally; eye 

 region black, the clypeus either entirely black or paler across margin; 

 sides of cephalothorax brown. Chelicerce yellow to dark brown. 

 Labium black. Endites brown. Sternum and coxa; of legs beneath 

 light brown or yellow. Legs light brown or yellow proximally, with 

 a tendency to become darker, smoky or blackish, distally. Abdomen 

 pale mesally above from anterior end to spinnerets, a faint lanceolate 

 outline in basal part; a black spot over each antero-lateral angle, 

 followed or not with a number of other dark spots so as to form a 

 dark border each side of dorsum; venter and lower portion of sides 

 immaculate. 



Face low, strongly slanting outward, evenly convexly roimded 

 laterally. 



First row of eyes a little shorter than the second, weakly procurved, 

 anterior median eyes larger than the lateral, considerably closer to the 

 lateral than to each other. 



Epigijnum wider than long; septum wide anteriorly, evenly arched 

 ventrally; fovese oval, obliquely and well caudally placed, suggesting 

 an approach to the AUocosa type. 



Total length, 7 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.2 mm.; width, 

 2.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 6.8 mm.; tib. + pat., 2.5 mm.; tarsus, 1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 6.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 6.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 7.8 mm.; tib. + pat., 3 mm.; tarsus, L2 mm. 



Locality. — Florida. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF P^Iay, 



The genus ALLOGOSA Banks, 1900. 

 (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 537.) 



Cephalothorax glabrous or nearly so to sparsely pubescent. Anterior 

 tibiffi armed beneath with three pairs of spines, of which the third pair 

 is apical in position and all of which are moderate to minute in size, 

 either armed or unarmed laterally. Anterior row of eyes straight to a 

 little procurved, from longer to shorter than the second row; anterior 

 median eyes larger than the lateral, more or less; clypeus narrow, at 

 most as wide as the diameter of an anterior lateral eye; eyes of second 

 row of moderate size, much less than their diameter apart; quadrangle 

 of posterior eyes trapeziform, wider behind than in front. Labium 

 longer than wide, well attenuated anteriorly; basal excavation short, 

 about one-fourth the total length. Spinnerets very short, anterior and 

 posterior pairs subequal in length, Epigynum simple, presenting no 

 true guide, or but weakly furrowed, the spermatheca opening free 

 posteriorly. Bulb of male palpus bearing a scopus which is exterior 

 in position. 



1842. Lijcosa Hentz (ad. part, funerea), J. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 4, p. 228- 

 299. 



1875. Lycosa Hentz (ad. part, funerea), Sp. U. S., p. 24. 



1876. Lycosa Kevserling (ad. part, rugosa), Verh. z. b. Ges. Wien. pp. 610- 

 624. 



1888. ? Tricca Simon, Ann. Ent. Soc. Fr., p. 250. 



1890. Lycosa Marx (ad. part, funerea and rugosa), Proc. IT. S. N. M.. p. 12. 



1890. Pardosa Stone (ad. part, nigra), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 42, 



p. 432. 



1894. Trochosa, Banks (ad. part, parva), J. N. Y. E. Soc, p. 52. 



1898. Lycosa Simon (ad. part.). Hist. Nat. Araign., 2. 



. AuIonia(?) Banks, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., p. 273. 



1904. Allocosa Banks, Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, p. 113. 



Cephalothorax arched convexly behind, strongly attenuated anteriorly ; 

 pars cephalica narrow and inclined anteriorly, rather low; face with 

 sides convex and sloping outward from above below; posterior eyes 

 seen from above well removed from sides of pars cephalica. General 

 appearance of cephalothorax much like that of a Drassid. In the 

 known species the cephalothorax is entirely without distinct pale 

 stripes, or with a median paler band weakly contrasting. 



Chelicerce rather weak ; lower margin of furrow armed with three 

 teeth, the superior with two. Legs short; posterior tarsi simply setose, 

 and the anterior either entirely setose or with sparse lines of scopular 

 hairs at the sides. 



Excepting as to curvature of the anterior row of eyes, this genus is 

 much like most species of Simon's old genus Tricca, now withdrawn 

 by its author into Lycosa. It has the same form of cephalothorax 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



and shows the same tendency toward excessive reduction of the spines 

 of the anterior legs, these spines in some species of Tricca being entirely 

 absent from the tibiae (cf. degesta, infra). In Tricca the anterior row 

 of eyes is always more or less recurved, while in Allocosa it is at most 

 straight. This difference may prove not to hold good. It may 

 become impossible ultimately to maintain this group separate from 

 Lycosa, the American species of which it closely approaches through 

 the Trochosa group. 



Key to Species of Allocosa. 



1. All joints of legs except femora clear yellow, without any darker 



annulations or marldngs except at ends of tibiee IV, 

 T 1 T ^ rugosa (Keys.). 



J.egs beyond femora more or less distinctly annulate with dark, 2. 



2. Anterior row of eyes longer than the second; anterior median eyes 



not more than one-fifth their diameter apart; anterior tibise 

 armed neither in front nor behind, and the ventral spines minute, 

 . degesta Chamb. 



Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second; anterior median 

 eyes their radius or nearly so apart; anterior tibiae armed in 

 front and behind and the ventral spines longer, .... 3. 



3. Femora of first legs solid black above, a sub-basal brown band on 



the others, fimerea (Hentz) 



Femora of first legs not solid black, marked" with three black 

 rings, 4 



4. First pair of ventral spines of anterior tibiaj reaching the bases of the 



median pair, the basal spines in length equalling the diameter of 

 the joint; upper margin of furrow of chelicera with three teeth, 



^. . -parva (Bks.). 



l*irst pair_ of ventral spines of anterior tibia? not reaching bases 

 of median pair; and none of the spines in length equalling the 

 diameter of the joint; upper margin of furrow of chelicera with 

 two teeth, evagata, sp. n. 



Allocosa rugosa (Keyserling), 1876. 



(Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 624, PI. 7, figs. 9, 10.) 

 Female.— Cephalothorax shining black with obscure brown lines 

 radiating from above; sometimes with a brownish luster; clypeus a 

 little paler, brownish. Chelicerce black. Labium, endites and coxce 

 of legs beneath brown. Sternum brownish black. Legs with all 

 femora black, all other joints yellow or pale brown, except the posterior 

 tibiae which have a dark ring at each end. Abdomen ^\\i\\ front 

 declivity and the sides blackish with some minute lighter dots; dorsum 

 obscure brown, black hues outlining a lanceolate mark at base which is 

 continued behind as a fine black median line with a row of black dots 

 19 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



on each side of it; outside these more median marks is on each side a 

 straight row of black spots which are in part confluent ; sides of dorsum 

 with obscure irregular dark markings; venter brown. Spinnerets 

 •and epigynum brown. 



Chelicerce one and one-third times as long as the face is high ; sides of 

 face convex and bulging outward below. Cephalothorax with its dorsal 

 line in profile convex, not much descending posteriorly and not con- 

 cavated at middle. 



Anterior row of eijes shorter than the second, distinctly procurved; 

 anterior median eyes, oval and diverging, their radius apart, hardly 

 half so far from the lateral eyes which are a little smaller, about half 

 their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes less than 

 their diameter (about two-thirds) from front margin of clypeus, a little 

 farther from eyes of second row; eyes of second row comparatively 

 low on face, a little more than half their diameter apart; cephalothorax 

 about 4.5 times as long as the quadrangle of posterior eyes. 



Epigynum nearly as in the next species (funerea), but the median 

 part or lobe more convex. 



Total length, 5.6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.6 mm.; width, 

 1.9 mm. 



Length of leg I, 5.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 1.9 mm. ; met., 1.2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 4.9 mm. 



Length of leg III, 4.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 7.8 nun. ; tib. + pat., 2.4 mm. ; met., 2.3 mm 



Male. — Coloration as in female excepting palpi which are entirely 

 black. 



PateUa of palpi as long as or a little longer than the tibia which 

 thickens distaUy and, seen from above, is some thicker than the pre- 

 ceding joint; tarsus relatively narrow, not much broader than the 

 tibia, its apical part bent ventrad. For palpal organ see PI. XXIII, 

 fig. 3. 



Total length, 4.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.4 mm.; width, 

 1.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 5.2 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2 mm. ; met., 1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 4.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 4.5 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 7.5 mm.; tib. + pat., 2.7 mm.; met., 2 mm. 



SjTi. — 1890. Pardosa nigra Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. PMla., Vol. 42, p. 



432, PI. XV, figs. 4, 4o. 

 Non. sjTi. — 1891. Lycosa funerea Banks, Ent. News. 

 Syn. — 1902. Lycosa nigra, Montgomery, op. cit., p. 538, PI. 29, fig. 1. 

 1904. Lycosa nigra, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 285, PI. 



XX, figs. 40, 41. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



Type locality. — Mary'land (Baltimore). 



Known localities. — Maryland, Pennsylvania, District of Columbia!. 



AUooosa funerea (Hentz), 1842. 



(Sub Lycosa, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 4, p. 393.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax shining reddish black becoming a little paler 

 above, the marginal lines deep black; clypeus pale. Cheliceros deep 

 reddish brown. Labium and enclites brown. Sternum dark brown, 

 blackish at borders. Coxce of legs yellowish brown. Legs with ground 

 color brown of reddish tinge; femora of first pair of legs black, the 

 succeeding femora similar but pale beneath and with the black divided 

 above the proximal end by a brownish cross-band, this annulus becom- 

 ing more distinction the posterior legs, and the extreme distal end of 

 all femora pale; all tibiae with a subbasal and a subapical ring of black; 

 metatarsi less distinctly annulate, there being a median annulus, often 

 more or less diffused, and on posterior pairs also a siibbasal and a sub- 

 apical band. Abdomen appearing black above and at sides, minutely 

 dotted with A^ellow; the dorsum in front paler, reddish yellow, the paler 

 area enclosing a lanceolate black-margined outline, and followed 

 behind by a row of light spots with black dots at center on each side, 

 these being connected in pairs by black angular cross-lines the angles of 

 which are directed backward ; opposed to the black cross-lines is a 

 series of light chevron-lines wdth angles forward ; venter pale brown, 

 immaculate or sometimes with a few short transverse marks along each 

 side. 



Form of cephalothorax and face much as in rugosa. 

 Anterior row of eyes a little shorter than the second, gently procurved ; 

 anterior median eyes their radius or a little more apart, closer to the 

 lateral eyes which are but slightly smaller, less than their radius from 

 eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes less than their diameter from 

 eyes of second row; eyes of second row their radius apart, rather less 

 than more; quadrangle of posterior eyes as wide in front as long, the 

 cephalothorax 5.5 times longer; eyes of third row unusually small. 

 Labium longer than wide (5.3 : 4.8) ; basal excavation one-fourth total 

 length; sides slightly convex, strongh'' converging distally ; front margin 

 convexly rounded, more rarely straight. 

 For spines of anterior tibiae see PI. X, fig. 3. 



The epigynum nearly identical in form with that of A. degesta (PL 

 XXIII, fig. 5). 



Total length, 5.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.7 nmi.; width, 

 2 mm. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Length of leg I, 6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2 mm. ; met., 1.2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 5.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 5.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 8.25 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.5 mm. ; met., 2.4 mm. 



Syn. — 1875. Lycosa funerea Hentz, J. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 4, p. 393. 



1890. Lycosa funerea, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12. 



1897. Lycosa funerea, Banks, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 4. 



1902. Lycosa sublata Montgomerj', Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 539. 



1904. Trochosa sublata, Montgomery, ibid., p. 308. 



Type locality. — Alabama. 



Known localities. — Alabama, Georgia!, Louisiana!. 

 "This species abounds on the ground. It has the habits of a Her- 

 pyllus, and runs with great rapidity " (Hentz), 



AUocosa degesta Chamberlin, 1904. 

 (Can. Entomologist, p. 287.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax shining black of reddish luster. ChelicercB 

 the same. Labium and endites brown. Legs nearly as in funerea, but 

 light marks on femora more obscure and less contrast on other joints 

 between the light and dark rings. Sternum reddish brown, dark 

 about margins, lighter, more yellowish, over middle area. Abdomen 

 above nearly as in funerea; venter yellow with a few faint dark dots at 

 sides. Spinnerets yellow. Epigynum brown, weakly reddish at 

 borders. 



Chelicerce nearly twice as long as the face is high. Anterior row of 

 eyes a little longer than the second, nearly straight, anterior median 

 eyes much larger than the lateral (at least 3 : 2), at most one-fifth their 

 diameter apart, still closer to the lateral eyes, not fully one-third their 

 diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes not fully their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus, some closer to eyes of second 

 row; anterior median eyes three-fourths as large as those of second 

 TOW (PI. X, fig. 2); eyes of second row about their radius apart; 

 quadrangle of posterior eyes as wide in front as long, only one-sixth as 

 long as cephalothorax. Spines of anterior tibiae greatly reduced, 

 minute, none at all on either anterior or posterior side of joint (PI. 

 X, fig. 1). 



Epigynum nearly the same as that of funerea (PL XXIII, fig. 5). 



Total length, 6.6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.2 mm.; width, 

 2.25 mm. 



Length of leg I, 7.2 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.5 mm. ; met., 1.6 mm. 



Length of leg II, 6.3 mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



Length of leg III, 6.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 9.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 2.8 mm. 



Syn. — 1904. ITrochosa noctuabunda, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Pliila., p. 301. 



Locality. — Ijouisiana. 



One mature and one immature female collected at Baton Rouge by- 

 Mr. B. H. Guilbeaux. 



AUooosa parva (Banks), 1894. 



(Sub Trochosa, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, II, p. 52.) 



Male. — Cephalothorax with a wide paler median band, anteriorly 

 wider than eye area; eye region blackish; sides deep brown to shining 

 black; a row of indistinct dots on each side; the paler band clothed 

 with sparse gray pubescence, especially anteriorly; dark parts with 

 sparse gray and brown hairs intermixed ; tending to be glabrous except 

 about eyes and face. Chelicerce reddish brown. Labium and endites 

 brown. Sternum blackish, brown at middle and along sides clothed 

 with gray pubescence and long blackish bristles. Coxce of legs beneath 

 yellow. Legs yellow with distinct black rings on all joints except tarsi. 

 Abdomen above grayish or yellowish gray, being clothed with light 

 gray and some yellow hair; dorsum at base with a black lanceolate 

 outline and behind with a number of black chevron-shaped marks 

 and also laterally with some dark spots; venter gray, immaculate, 

 Spi7inerets brown. Palpi brown, not ringed, the tarsi darker than 

 other joints. 



Cephalothorax wide behind and much narrowed anteriorly, being 

 only about one-half as wide across eyes as behind, i'^ace with sides 

 convex and slanting, in height one-half the length of the chelicerse; 

 in profile dorsal line is seen to be highest near third eye row, and 

 gently convex between eyes and posterior declivity. 



Anterior row of eyes slightly procurved, as long as the second row; 

 anterior median eyes clearly larger than the lateral, more than their 

 radius apart, close to lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes their diameter 

 from front margin of clypeus and from eyes of second row ; eyes of second 

 rownotlarge,nearly their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior e3^es 

 one-fifth the length of cephalothorax. 



Tarsi and metatarsi of the first and second pairs of legs scopulate as 

 usual; tarsi of the third and fourth pairs setose, not at all scopulate; 

 patella of second legs armed in front with a single spine; tibia + patella 

 of fourth legs a little shorter than cephalothorax, longer than meta- 

 tarsi of fourth leg; patella of third leg of about the same length as the 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



tibia ; metatarsus of first leg longer than tibia of first ; femur of f ourtli 

 leg about same length as width of cephalothorax. 



Patella of palpus clearly longer than the tibia; tarsus not fully as 

 long as the tibia + patella. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XX, fig. 7. 



Total length, 6 mm. I>ength of cephalothorax, 3 mm. ; width, 

 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg I, 6.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.1 mm. ; met., 1.4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 5.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 6.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 8.4 mm.; tib. + pat., 2.8 mm.; met., 2.3 mm. 



Female. — Coloration similar to that of male. 



Epigynum of general type of that of funerea, but epigynal plate 

 more elongate and more strongly narrowed at posterior end; with 

 posterior margin concave or indented mesally, not bowed caudally. 



Total length, 8.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.4 mm.; width, 

 2.7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 9.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.1 mm. ; met., 2.8 mm. 



1895. Trochosa parva Banks, Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., Vol. VIII, p. 430. 



1901. Trochosa parva, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 587. 



1902. Trochosa parva, Banks, Proc. U. S. N. M., p. 217. 



Type locality. — Colorado. 



Known localities. — Colorado !, Arizona, New Mexico !, Utah !. 



Allocosa evagata sp. nov. 



Female. — Cephalothorax blackish brown; rather paler above; on 

 each side a marginal line of clear black; in front of dorsal furrow a 

 faint polygonal figure outlined in black, with an angle in middle of 

 front margin produced toward eye region as a line and a similar one on 

 each side produced obhquely along side of pars cephalica; the cephalo- 

 thorax rather paler in front of this figure than elsewhere; color deeper 

 about eyes, Chelicerce reddish brown, an indistinct blackish mark 

 across middle which mesally continues obliquely upward on inner 

 face. Legs yellow with distinct dark rings of which there are three on 

 the femora, the apical one being about twice as broad as the others; 

 these rings incomplete above but continuous laterally and ventrally. 

 The second and third rings on femora IV are confluent along the antero- 

 dorsal side. The tibiae each with two dark rings, of which at least the 

 distal one is interrupted above. The metatarsi with three indistinct 

 rings. Labium, endites, coxce and sternum yellow, the labium and 

 sternum dusky. Front part of dorsum of abdomen obscure reddish 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



yellow, this area embracing some small, ill-defined dark dots. Pos- 

 teriorly are pairs of ocellate light spots which are united transversely 

 by inverse chevron-lines, between which are indicated pale chevron- 

 lines with the apices directed forward. The dorsum elsewhere and the 

 sides covered with a dense network of black over the obscure yellow 

 background, i.e., appearing black marked with numerous small dots 

 of 3^ellow. Venter yellow with some short transverse marks of dark 

 color toward the sides. Epigynum reddish yellow. Spinnerets yellow. 



First row of eijes evidently shorter than the second. Anterior 

 median eyes larger than the lateral (4 : 3), at most their radius apart, 

 half as far from the lateral eyes. Anterior lateral eyes a little less than 

 their diameter from front margin of clypeus, two-thirds their diameter 

 from eyes of second row. Eyes of second row two-thirds their diam- 

 eter apart. Dorsal eye area of same length as the width in front 

 which is but little less than that behind, the area being subquadrate. 

 Dorsal eye area one-fourth as long as the cephalothorax. 



Legs of but moderate length. Tibia + patella IV shorter than the 

 cephalothorax, longer than the metatarsus. IMetatarsus IV some 

 longer than tibia + patella of leg I. Spines of anterior tibiae rather 

 short, slender and prone. None of the tarsi truly scopulate, sparsely 

 clothed with bristles of ordinary form. 



Lower margin of furrow of cheliceroe with three teeth as in Lycosa, 

 the teeth conical and well spaced, the median one being largest. The 

 upper margin with but two teeth which are stout and conical, the first 

 being larger than the second and also larger than those of the lower 

 margin which are of about same size as the second one above. 



Labium attenuated anteriorly, its front margin concave. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. XXIII, fig. 4. 



Total length, 5.2 mm. I^ength of cephalothorax, 2.8 mm.; width, 

 2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 6.1 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2 mm. ; met., 1.3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 5.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 5.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 7.5 mm. ; tib. -I- pat., 2.5 mm. ; met., 2.2 mm. 



Sj'-n. — 1898. Aulonia{1) funerea Banks, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., p. 273. 



Locality. — Baja California. 



Described from a specimen loaned by California Academy of Sciences 

 and bearing label by Banks of Aulonia{1) funerea Htz. 



While not yet reported actually from within our borders, the form 

 will doubtless be found to occur in the Southwest and is therefore 

 included. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [May, 



(7)Alloco8a exalbida L. Becker, 1881. 

 {Loc. sup. cit., figs. 3, 3a, Zb.) 



Only figures were published. A pale species about 11 mm, long, 

 with very long legs. The figure of the eyes would seem certainly to 

 prove this species not to be a Lycosa. The epigynum is not that either 

 of Lycosa or a Pardosa, being like that of some Piratas and much like 

 that of Allocosa {funerea). 



The eyes also resemble those of this latter genus, but this form is 

 placed here with much doubt. 



Locality. — New Orleans, 



The genus SOSIPPTJS E. Simon, 1888. 

 ^;i (Ann. Ent. Soc. Fr., p. 205.) 



Entire body densely clothed with rather long pubescence. Anterior 

 tibicB armed beneath with three pairs of spines which are basal, median 

 or submedian, and apical in position respectively; these spines long 

 and apically slender and aculeate, much longer than the diameter 

 of the joint (PI. XI, fig. 4). Anterior eyes well separated, equi- 

 distant or very nearly so; the lateral ones on protruding tubercles, 

 as large as or (as in ours) larger than the median; the anterior row 

 longer than the second (PI. XI, fig. 2); clypeus as wide as the 

 diameter of an anterior lateral eye; eyes of second row considerably 

 less than their diameter apart ; quadrangle of posterior eyes trapezif orm, 

 distinctly broader behind than in front. Chelicerce armed below with 

 four stout conical teeth. Labium longer than wide, the basal excava- 

 tion (in ours) one-third the total length. Posterior spinnerets dis- 

 tinctly and considerably longer than the anterior, the second joint 

 of the former being long and conical (PI. XI, fig. 5). Epigynum 

 with a guide which in the known species is subclavately enlarged dis- 

 tally (PL XXIII, fig. 2). Alveolar area of male palpus compara- 

 tively small; a simple (in ours) process from basal lobe present in an 

 exterior position, extending distally and free except at base; no pit or 

 fold at base of process (PI. XXIII, fig. 1), 



Svn.— 1898. Sosippus Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., 2, p. 326. 



1902. Sosippus Cambridge, Boil. Cent. .\mer., pp. 315-332. 



1903. Comstock, Classif. of N. A. Spiders. 



Cephalothorax long and rather low, the pars cephalica not elevated. 

 Face rounded forward to the front eye row, the clypeus from above 

 below more or less retro-oblique, its sides convex and slanting out ard 

 (PI, XI, fig. 4). Quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth as long as 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



the cephalothorax. Chelicerce long and robust, the upper margin armed 

 as usual with three teeth of which the median one is much stoutest; 

 in the armature of the lower margin of the furrow with four stout teeth 

 the genus resembles Dolomedes; the statement made by Simon that the 

 two middle teeth of the lower margin are longer than the others does 

 not hold for S. floridanus, in which the fourth tooth is distinctly long- 

 est; in immature specimens sometimes but three teeth are present on 

 the lower margin. Legs with the tarsi and metatarsi densely and 

 widely scopulate for their entire lengths from base to apex, the scopulse 

 long; the scopulae of the posterior pairs divided by a median narrow 

 line of bristles; distal joints of legs with long aculeate bristles. 



Spiders of large size, in general appearance similar to Lycosa. Tn 

 the character of the mouth parts they suggest some of the Pisauridce. 

 In the structure of the spinnerets and in the color markings of the 

 abdomen and especially in habits they show close affinities with the 

 Agelenidce. The habits of the species of this genus so far as observed 

 are very similar to those of Hippasa and Porrima, the two most closely 

 related genera. The three genera are all composed of species which are 

 sedentary in habit, building large webs of fine silk with a central funnel- 

 shaped tubular retreat, preciseh^ as do the Agelenas and other Agelenidce. 

 In rushing out to seize their entangled prey they run upon the lower 

 surface of the web. Like other Lycosidce, however, they suspend their 

 cocoons to the spinnerets where they are maintained constantly, never 

 depositing them upon the web. They do not desert their webs during 

 the cocooning season. According to Cambridge, the movements of a 

 Sosippus which he observed upon the Amazon were exceedingly quick, 

 like those of Agelena. 



Sosippus is known only from the Americas, having been found in 

 Florida, Lower California, Mexico, Central America and Brazil. But 

 one species occurs within our limits. 



Sosippus floridanus Simon. 



Female. — Cephalothorax deep reddish brown or reddish black with- 

 out distinct light markings in the tegument; behind the eye region a 

 median stripe of yellow hair and on each side a wider marginal band of 

 white hair intermixed anteriorly with some of yellow color, these 

 marginal bands extending forward to the clypeus but not joining across 

 it; pubescence elsewhere dark. Chelicerce shining black sparsely 

 clothed above with blackish hair and densely clothed below with gray- 

 ish-brown hair of which there is a fringe along the furrow. Labium 

 and endites rather dark reddish brown, paler distally. Sternum red- 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF PVIay, 



dish-brown, the coxcb of legs a little paler and less reddish, clothed 

 with cinereous hair intermixed with longer brown bristles. Legs 

 fuscous, varied with some reddish-brown hues and marks, the femora 

 darker than the other joints clothed with brown and cinereous 

 pubescence. Abdomen blackish above, the venter brown; on each 

 side of dorsum a row of spots of white hair and the median part of 

 dorsum behind crossed by narrow white lines similarly formed by 

 pubescence; outer part of dorsum and sides densely covered with 

 minute spots and streaks of white hair; venter densely clothed with 

 brown and cinereous hair, two darker lines converging from the epigy- 

 num backward and uniting before attaining the spinnerets, these lines 

 being covered with the dark hair unmixed. 



Face with the sides convex and widely slanting, in height only about 

 half as great as the length of the chehcerce. 



Anterior row of eyes clearly longer than the second, rather strongly 

 procurved ; anterior median eyes some less than their diameter apart, and 

 less than their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes a 

 little larger than the median, their tubercles prominent, their diameter 

 from front margin of cljqDeus, fully one and one-third their diameter from 

 eyes of second row; eyes of second rowlarge, two-thirds their diameter 

 apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes half again as wide behind as in front, 

 a little more than one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax (4.8 : 1). 

 Lower margin of furrow of chclicene with the teeth nearly equidistant, 

 the fourth evidently largest. Labium but slightly longer than broad 

 (13 : 12.8); basal excavation one-third length of labium; sides below 

 hardly converging, but above strongly rounding and converging; 

 front margin very slightly widely concavate to straight (PI. XI, 

 fig. 1). Legs with tibiai armed as described \mder the genus, the two 

 basal pairs long and slender, apically bristle-like, the apical pair stout 

 and abruptly pointed (PL XI, fig. 4); tarsi, metatarsi and distal 

 part of tibiffi I and II densely scopulate, the posterior ones differing as 

 usual. For spinnerets see PL XI, fig. 5. 



For the structure of the epigynum see PL XXIII, fig. 2. 



Total length, 14.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 7 nmi.; width, 

 5 mm. 



Length of leg I, 17.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 6.1 mm. ; met., 4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 16 mm. 



Length of leg III, 15.5 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 22.9 mm.; tib. + pat., 7 mm.; met,, 6.2 mm. 



Male. — Coloration as in the female, or a little lighter; palpus clothed 

 wdth fulvo-cinereous pubescence. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



Tibia of jpalTpus longer than the patella, the tarsus nearly equalling 

 the combined length of the two preceding joints; tarsus much wider 

 than the tibia (3 : 2). For structure of the palpal organ see PI. 

 XXIII, fig. 1. 



Total length, 11.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 6 mm.; width, 

 4.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 18.5 mm.; tib. + pat., 6.3 mm.; met., 4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 18 mm. 



Length of leg III, 17.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 23.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7.1 mm. ; met., 7 mm. 



Locality. — Florida !. 



The female described above is one of the type specimens. 



The genus TEABEA Simon, 1876. 

 (Arachn. Fr., 3, p. 35G.) 

 Anterior tibia and metatarsi armed beneath with very long sj)ines 

 which are much longer than the diameter of the joint; of these spines 

 there are on the tibia three or four pairs (PI. XII, fig. 2). An- 

 terior eyes in a very strongly procurved row which is shorter than the 

 second; anterior median eyes much closer to each other than to the 

 lateral which are but little or sometimes not at all smaller; clypeus 

 narrow, the anterior lateral eyes being separated from its front margin 

 by their diameter or but little more, always farther from the eyes of 

 second row; eyes of second row at upper exterior angles of face, strongly 

 convex and protruding, less than their diameter apart; eyes of third 

 row hkewise strongly convex, divergent, facing outward and backward, 

 quadrangle of posterior eyes but little wider behind than in front. 

 Labium wide, attenuated anteriorly, the basal excavation short. 

 Posterior spinnerets (at least in ours) evidently longer than the anterior, 

 the second joint distinct though not long. Epigynum with a guide; 

 in ours, strongly chitinized only on each side about the spermathecal 

 openings, elsewhere less dense, clothed with hair as tegument elsewhere. 

 Male palpus bearing a scopus in a median position ; basal spur extremely 

 large, much longer than the erect branch (in ours). 



Sj'n. — 1SS5. Aulonia Emcrton (.4. aurantiaca), Tr. Conn Acad Sci 6 d 

 498. ■ ■> , I- 



1898. Trabcea Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., 2, p. 349. 



1903. Trabcea Comstock, Classification of North American Spiders. 



Pars cephalica long, but little inclined anteriorly. Sides of face 

 straight and vertical or nearly so ; face protruding above over its basal 

 portion (PI. XII, fig. 1). Quadrangle of posterior eyes relatively 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



long. Posterior eyes seen from above touching or protruding beyond 

 the lateral margins of pars cephalica (PI, XI, fig. 8). Chelicercc 

 with the lower margin armed either with two or with three teeth, the 

 upper with three. Legs rather long; tarsi either very sparsely scopu- 

 late on anterior pairs or the scopula^ quite absent. 



Spiders of small size, readily distinguished by the extreme convexity 

 of the eyes of the second and third rows and by the strongly procurved 

 first row with its median eyes closer to each other than to the lateral. 

 The very long straight spines of the anterior legs form a prominent 

 feature. The quadrangle of posterior eyes is relatively much longer 

 than in any other known North American Lycosidce. 



Trabea aurantiaca (Emerton), 1885. 



(Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 499, PI. 49, figs. 6 to 66.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax black or blackish brown ; a bright 

 yellow supramarginal band on each side extending forward to the 

 clypeus and touching the inferior edges of eyes of second and third 

 rows; a yellow median band nearly as wide as third eye row just 

 behind the latter, extending broadly between the third eyes nearly to 

 those of second row, posteriorly rapidly narrowing to a point at the 

 dorsal groove over which it is obscure or absent, becoming again 

 visible on the posterior declivity on which it begins above at a point 

 and widens clavately downward to the posterior margin; eyes sur- 

 rounded by black; clypeus yellow. Chelicerce smoky brown or blackish 

 above, yellowish distally. Labium and endites brown, often dusky, 

 pale distally. Sternum and coxce of legs yellow to brown. Legs with 

 background yellow; femur I black; femur II hke I, but with the black 

 more or less broken by yellow, especially so above.; the posterior femora 

 more largely yellow, the black marks often faint; patellae dark or 

 black distally; tibiae with a basal and an apical dark ring, and the 

 metatarsi more or less darkened at proximal end ; the markings of all 

 these joints becoming more indistinct or disappearing on the posterior 

 pairs, the last pair being often clear bright yellow. Abdomen orange- 

 brown, the sides marked by a series of parallel black bars which pass 

 obliquely downward and caudad, the most anterior of which on each 

 side bends forward across the corresponding antero-lateral angle; these 

 black bars connected at upper ends on each side by narrow angular 

 lines with angles directed mesad ; these angles, excepting the first, are 

 connected into pairs by black chevron-lines across dorsum; anterior 

 area of dorsum showing more indistinctly a lanceolate figure outlined 

 by a fine black line; venter unmarked except for a narrow inwardly 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



bending dark line each side of middle, the two of which are united by a 

 cross-bar just at base of spinnerets. Spinnerets dusky orange. Epigy- 

 num reddish brown about spermathecal openings, elsewhere concolor- 

 ous with the venter. 



Pars cephalica long and high, highest anteriorly and visibly descend- 

 ing caudad to the pars thoracica. Chelicerce a little longer than height 

 of face. Anterior row of eyes as described for genus; anterior median 

 eyes two-thirds their diameter apart, fully their diameter from the 

 lateral eyes which are about two-thirds as large, their diameter from 

 eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes their diameter or some less 

 from front margin of clypeus, one and one-half times their diameter 

 from eyes of second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-third or more 

 the length of the cephalothorax (PI. XI, fig, 8). Lower margin of 

 the furrow of chelicerce armed with two stout conical teeth which are 

 subequal; upper margin with three teeth of usual character. Labium 

 clearly wider than long (5 : 4); the basal excavation little or not at all 

 more than one-fifth the total length; sides strongly converging anter- 

 iorly; front margin truncate or slightly convexly rounded. Legs hav- 

 ing tarsi bent or curved down at distal end but not at base as in male; 

 tarsi sparsely setose and scopuliE entirely absent. Posterior spinnerets 

 widely separated; distinctly longer than the anterior, but in alcohol 

 often bent toward each other and then inconspicuous; the second 

 joint distinct but short, bluntly pointed. 



For form of epigynum see PI, XII, fig. 2. 



Total length, 3.4 mm. Length of cephalothorax, l.G mm.; width, 

 1 mm. 



Length of leg I, 4 nmi. ; tib. -|- pat., 1.4 mm. ; met., .95 mm. 



Length of leg II, 3.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 3.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 5.5 mm.; tib. + pat., 1.7 mm.; met., 1.5 mm. 



Male. — Lighter than female, markings of legs (excepting the anterior 

 femora) and of abdomen less distinct or absent. Palpi black; the 

 tip of tarsus yellow, in life clothed, like legs, with white hair 



All tarsi of legs distinctly curved downward distally, the anterior 

 ones strongly so, those of the third and fourth pairs also. bent at 

 proximal end. Palpus with the sides of tibiae parallel, not at all 

 enlarged distally; tibia longer than patella by one-fourth its length; 

 tarsus of about same length as tibia + patella, much wider than the 

 tibia (4 :2.5). 



For palpal organ (drawn out from alveolus) see PI. XII, fig. 3. 



Total length, 2.6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 1.5 mm.; width, 

 1 mm. 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Length of leg I, 3.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 1.3 mm. ; met., 9 mm. 



Length of leg II, 3.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 3.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 4.8 mm.; tib. + pat., L5 mm.; met., 1.5 mm. 



Syn.— 1890. Aulonia aurantiaca, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12. 



1892. Aulonia aurantiaca, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2. 



1892. Aulonia aurantiaca, Banks Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 44, p. 73. 



1898. Trabea aurantiaca, Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., 2. 



Type locality. — Massachusetts and Connecticut. 

 Known localities. — Massachusetts !, Connecticut, New York, District 

 of Columbia!. 



The genus SOSILAUS Simon, 1898. 

 (Hist. Nat. d. Arai^., Vol. 2, p. 350.) 



" Cephalothorax convex behind, in front long slanting and attenu- 

 ated, the face rather narrow, oblique and obtuse. Four anterior 

 eyes subcontiguous, in a gently recurved row, the median at least 

 twice as large as the lateral. Eyes of the second row moderate, approx- 

 imate, occupying a transverse space much narrower than the anterior 

 eye row (PI. XII, figs. 5, 6). Chelicerse rather weak, the inferior 

 margin of the furrow tridentate, liabium longer than wide, attenuated 

 and obtuse. Legs rather long; the metatarsi and tarsi slender and 

 long, not scopulate; anterior tibiie armed beneath with 5-5 prone 

 spines and the metatarsi with 3-3 similar ones, there being smaller 

 lateral spines" (Simon). 



In the character of cephalothorax and eyes this genus is very similar 

 to Tricca and similarly much suggests Allocosa, from which it differs 

 most conspicuously in the armature of the anterior tibiae. The 

 posterior eyes are situated upon a very oblique plane. The eyes of the 

 second row are relatively small. 



But one species of this genus is known and that by a single specimen 

 {S. spingerE. S.). 



Syn. — 1903. Sosilaus Comstock, Classification of North American Spiders. 



Sosilaus spiniger Simon, 1898. 



(Hist. Nat. Araign., 2, p. 350.) 

 "Length of male 3.7 mm.— Cephalothorax fulvo-rufous, smooth 

 and subglabrous, a narrow marginal fuscous line and the pars thoracica 

 marked irregularly with short radiating stripes. Abdomen fusco- 

 testaceous, paler in front and below. Legs lurid, tarsi infuscated. 

 Palpi lurid, the tarsus infuscated, sides parallel, setose with long 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 299 



bristles below; tibia a little longer than the patella, terete, gently- 

 curved; tarsus shorter than the tibia with patella, narrowly ovate, 

 acuminate; bulb simple." 



Locality. — Louisiana. 



I have not found in collections from Louisiana and neighboring 

 States any specimens referable to this species, which remains known 

 only from M. Simon's diagnosis and comments. 



The genus PIBATA Sundevall, 1833. 

 (Subgenus sub Lycosa, Consp. Arachn. p. 24.) 

 Body clothed sparsely with short hairs, in life never cloaking and con- 

 cealing the tegument as is commonly the case in Pardosa and Lycosa. 

 Anterior tibite in the female armed beneath with two pairs of spines, 

 respectively basal and submedian in position, never with an apical 

 pair; these spines veiy long and overlapping, much longer than the 

 diameter of the article; rarely with three pairs beneath, the third pair 

 midway between the median pair and the distal end of the joint; tibiae 

 in the male with the long spines as in the female, but in addition 

 with an apical pair (PI. X, fig. 7). Anterior row of eyes as long as 

 or but little shorter than the second, a little procurved or straight, 

 the eyes subequal or with the median a little larger than the lateral; 

 clypeus rather narrow, the anterior lateral eyes separated from its 

 front margin at most by their diameter, a little farther from eyes of 

 second row; eyes of the second row large, less than their diameter 

 apart; dorsal eye area trapeziform, wider behind than in front. 

 Labium longer than wide, attenuated anteriorly in varying degrees; 

 basal excavation short, nearly always but one-fourth or less the length 

 of the labium, only rarely longer. Posterior spinnerets much longer 

 than the anterior, their second joint distinct and conical. Epigynum 

 presenting no true guide, usually consisting behind of two strongly 

 chitinized lobes or tubercles upon which are the openings of the 

 spermatheca. Bulb of male palpus with no true scopal fold or one 

 but slightly indicated ; conductor as a conspicuous erect apophysis or 

 process, in a mostly medio-apical position, and its principal branch 

 reaching to or extending beyond the front margin of the alveolus ; a 

 basal spur or branch of considerable size always present on conductor; 

 the embolus small, short, nearly concealed usually; lunate plate very 

 large, one- third as long as the bulb. 



S\Ti. — 1848. Lycosa subgen. Potamia C. Koch, Die Araclin., 14, p. 98. 



1876. Pirata Simon, Arachn. Fr. 



1876. Pirata Keyserling, Verh. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 610. 



1885. Pirata Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 492. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



1S90. Pirata Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564. 



1898. Lycosa Simon (ad. part), Hist. Nat. Araign., 2, p. 345. 



1902. Pirata Montg., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 536. 



1903. Lycosa Comstock (ad. part.), Class. N. A. Spiders, p. 51. 



1904. Pirata Chamberlin, Can. Ent., p. 177. 



1904. Aulonia, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 265. 



Cephalothorax moderately low; the pars cephalicanot elevated being 

 nearly level with the dorsal line of the pars thoracica, in front broadly 

 obtusely rounded, the sides rounded and considerably sloping. Face 

 mostly low, much shorter than the length of the chelicerse, trapeziform, 

 the sides in most convexly rounded and widely sloping, rarely sub- 

 straight and very steep or nearly vertical, the eyes of second row more 

 or less distant from its upper exterior angles. Except in the few 

 species with the sides of the face very steep, the posterior eyes when 

 viewed from above are removed from the lateral margins of the pars 

 cephalica by more than their diameter as is the case in Lycosa 

 {PI. X, fig. 5). Quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth, or usually 

 less, the length of the cephalothorax, rarely longer. Chelicene robust, 

 the lower margin with three teeth similar to those of Lycosa, but with 

 the third often conspicuouslj^ reduced as in Pardosa; upper margin 

 with three teeth of the usual character ; fringe of hair of upper margin 

 more sparse than in Lycosa; posterior line with long but sparse hairs. 

 Legs robust; tarsi in most cases simply setose on all pairs, very rarely 

 with the anterior ones with thin lateral scopular lines as in Pardosa, 

 the bristles, however, being often serried (PL X, fig. 7); tibia -1- 

 patella of leg IV sometimes longer than, at others shorter than, the 

 cephalothorax, longer than the metatarsus or more rarely of the same 

 length. The cephalothorax always presents a median pale stripe, 

 which begins on the posterior declivity as a narrow line and then con- 

 tinuously widens to the third eye row, there more abruptly widening, 

 passing below the posterior eyes of each side and attaining the clypeus ; 

 the eyes are mostly upon black; the median stripe encloses in its anterior 

 half a bifurcate or V-shaped dark mark, the undivided median part 

 being at the anterior end of the dorsal furrow and sending an arm 

 forward to the inner margin of the third eye on each side (PI. X, 

 fig. 5) ; marginal light stripes may or may not be present; many species 

 are marked on the abdomen with lines and spots of bright white hair. 



The Piratas are spiders of small or of medium size. The males are in 

 most cases as large as or larger than the females. 



In habits they are much like the Pisauricke. They occur in damp 

 meadows or more especially at the margins of streams, ponds and 

 other bodies of water, upon which they run with great ease. Many 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



forms in case of danger dive readily beneath the surface of the water 

 and hide under stones, leaves,, etc., at the bdttom. The cocoon is 

 carried about attached to the spinnerets, though when the females are 

 at rest it is commonlj^ held in the chelicerse. The cocoons are clear 

 white in color and spherical in shape, marked at the equator by a seam 

 less strong than that on the cocoons of Pardosa. The female con- 

 structs a temporary retreat under stones and other suitable places, 

 spinning a small irregular web of very delicate texture. The greater 

 length of the superior spinnerets would seem to be associated with 

 this web-spinning habit. 



Key to Species of Pirata. 



1. Lower margin of the furrow of the chelicerae armed with but two 



teeth, 2. 



Ivower margin of furrow armed with three teeth, 3. 



2. Cephalothorax less than 2 mm. long, minutus Em. 



Cephalothorax 3 mm. or more long, marxi Stone. 



3. Cephalothorax with no submarginal light stripes, . monianus Em. 

 Cephalothorax with submarginal light stripes 4. 



4. Cephalothora^c less than 2 mm. long, or at most not longer, . 5. 

 Cephalothorax much more than 2 mm. long, 6. 



5. All joints of legs except tarsi distinctly ringed with black (female), 



aspirans Chamb. 



Femora dark at distal ends, other joints of legs light, not at all 



marked with dark, Jnimicolus Mtg. 



6. Cephalothorax in life or when dry showing on each side a marginal 



stripe of bright white hair, 7 



Cephalothorax showing no such stripe, insularis Em. 



7. A black marginal stripe below each pale lateral stripe, 



piratica utahensis, new var. 

 No such black marginal line, fehriculosa (Beck.). 



The key above does not include prodigiosa Keys, or hilohatus TuUg. 



Firata minutus Emerton, 1885. 



(Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 493, PI. 48, figs. 10-lOc.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax dark brown to gray-brown; a yellow 

 median stripe of more or less greenish hue which begins caudally 

 as a narrow line, but expands continuously forward to the eye region, 

 continuing as a narrow stripe on each side below eyes to the clypeus as 

 usual; within the median light band are two dark lines or narrow 

 stripes extending backward from eyes of third row and uniting together 

 into one line at the dorsal groove, forming thus the typical V-shaped 

 mark; a marginal light strij^e on each side with uneven upper border, 

 20 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



not extending forward beyond third eye row ; in life a marginal line of 

 white hair much narrower than light stripe of the tegument with 

 which it is coextensive in length. Chelicerce black-brown, yellow 

 distally ; subsparsely clothed with rather long light gray hairs. Labium 

 and endites dark brown, paler distally. Sternum deep brown to 

 blackish, in most cases with a yellow median line and a number of 

 yellow spots along each lateral margin; clothed with comparatively 

 long light gray hairs. Coxcb of legs beneath yellow. Legs light brown 

 or yellow, all joints excepting the tarsi annulate with black; the femora 

 have usually a submedian ring and a broader ring at distal end, the 

 latter sometimes partially divided by light; the tibiae and metatarsi 

 have a wide annulus at each end, leaving especially on the tibiae a 

 relatively narrow yellow ring at the middle; tibiae sometimes entirely 

 black. Abdomen above black, sometimes with and sometimes without 

 narrow lanceolate yellow mark at base; dorsum clothed with sparse 

 light brown or grayish hair, with a series of five or six spots of wliite 

 hair along each side for the entire length, and posteriorly with narrow 

 cross-lines of similar white hair, these lines sometimes indistinct; sides 

 a little paler than the dorsum, with some streaks and dots of white 

 pubescence; venter dark gray, more densely clothed with hair than the 

 sides and dorsum, the hair being gray. Epigynum reddish brown, 

 usually nearly or quite concealed by long gray hairs. Spinnerets dark 

 brown. 



Face but little more than two-thirds as high as the chelicerae are 

 long, sides substraight and nearly vertical as in Pardosa. 



Anterior row of eyes nearly as long as the second, more strongly pro- 

 curved than is usual in this genus ; anterior median eyes about their 

 radius apart, a little larger than the lateral; anterior lateral eyes rather 

 less than their diameter from front margin of clypeus, farther from 

 eyes of the second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth the 

 length of the cephalothorax. 



Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with but two teeth which are 

 relatively long and slender, the second one a little smaller than the 

 first, the latter evidently representing the second of the three typically 

 present in the Lycosidce. 



Ijegs with tibia + patella of the fourth pair a little longer than the 

 cephalothorax, which is of the same length as the metatarsus of the 

 same legs ; tibiae of first legs armed ventrally with a basal and a sub- 

 median pair of spines which are very long, overlapping as usual. 



For structure of epigynum see PL XXII, fig, 7. 



Total length, 3.3 mm. Length of cephalothorax, L8 mm.; width, 

 1.3 mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



Length of leg I, 4.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 1.6 mm. ; met., 1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 4.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 3.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 6.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2 mm.; met., 1.8 mm. 



Male. — Femora of first two pairs of legs black, others dusky yellow; 

 all other joints clear yellow, "without indications of any dark marks; 

 palpi entirely black, except the patellae which often are paler above; 

 coloration otherwise nearly as in female, but in general darker. 



Tibia of palpus considerably longer than patella, and narrower 

 than tarsus; main process of apophysis of conductor with its upper 

 half bent outward at right angles to lower half at or a little in front 

 of front margin of alveolus; basal spur ending apicallj^ in an acute 

 point (PI. XXI, fig. 9). 



Total length, 2.9 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 1.6 mm.; width, 

 1 mm. Length of leg I, 4.4 mm. 



Syn. — 1890. Pirata minuta Em., Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 44, 



p. 72. 

 — Pirata exigua Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 44, p. 72, PI. 1, fig. 48. 

 1890. Pirata minuta Em., Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564. 

 Non-s}Ti. — 1892. Pirata minuta Em., Fox, Proc. Ent. Soc. W. 

 Syn.— 1898. Pirata m,inutus Em., Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., II, p. 335. 



Type locality. — Massachusetts and Connecticut. 



Known localities. — Massachusetts!, Connecticut, New York (Ithaca!). 



I have found females of this species with egg-sacs fairly common in 

 certain damp meadows about Ithaca, New York, late in the summer. 

 A few were taken at the margins of ponds. The male above described, 

 from Massachusetts, was kindly loaned me by Mr. J. 11. Emerton. 



Pirata aspirans Chamberlin, 1904. 



(Can. Ent., Vol. XXXVI, p. 286.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax dark brown crossed by radiating 

 lines of black; a pale median band beginning at posterior margin 

 narrows to caudal end of thoracic furrow, then widens gradually to 

 eyes of third row where it more or less abruptly widens and encloses the 

 eye area, below which on each side it attains the clypeus as usual ; 

 within the median pale band a median line at front of furrow bifurcates, 

 sending a branch to eyes of each side as usual; eyes surrounded by 

 black; clypeus yellow; a marginal band of yellow on each side, limited 

 below by a line of black, these side stripes extending forward only to 

 opposite the third eyes. Chelicerce reddish yellow, smoky over middle 

 region and with branching lines of black over basal area. Labium 

 yellow. Endites yellow above, and darker, dusky-brown below. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Sternum and coxcb of legs beneath immaculate yellow. Legs yellow; 

 all joints except the tarsi more or less distinctly banded with black 

 rings; these dark rings on femora of first legs confluent and also semi- 

 confluent on other joints; femora with four rings, of which the apical 

 one may be indistinct. Dorsum of abdomen black, at sides minutely 

 punctate with yellow; at base a lanceolate yellow mark, on each side of 

 which just behind middle is a small ovate yellow spot with black dot at 

 center, and each side of apex a larger triangular yellow spot ; behind is a 

 series of yellow transverse bowed or chevron-shaped transverse marks 

 which become successively shorter caudad, the last few being diamond 

 shaped and contiguous by their apices; sides of abdomen above like 

 sides of dorsum, but below becoming more and more yellow, the black 

 being first reduced to spots and then quite disappearing at venter; 

 venter yellow, dusky in front of the genital furrow and also with a 

 dusky interrupted median band extending back from epigynum two- 

 thirds the distance to the spinnerets, and on each side of venter a 

 narrow irregularly edged black line which does not extend all the way to 

 the spinnerets behind. Spinnerets yellow. Epigynum reddish yellow. 



Sides of face of moderate steepness; face a little more than half as 

 high as the chelicerse are long. Seen in profile, the dorsal line of the 

 cephalothorax is straight and horizontal or nearly so between the eyes 

 and the posterior declivity, the pars cephalica not being elevated at all 

 above the pars thoracica. Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with 

 three teeth, of which the middle one is much stoutest and longest, the 

 first one clearly the smallest; the upper margin with three teeth of the 

 usual proportions. Labium slightly longer than broad (5 :4.8), 

 four and five-tenths times longer than its basal excavation strongly 

 converging anteriorly; anterior margin indented mesally with its side 

 parts convexly rounded. Legs with tibia + patella of the fourth pair 

 much longer than the cephalothorax, which is of the same length as the 

 tibia + patella of the first pair; spines of anterior tibiae very long, 

 those of the first pair to or a little beyond the middle of the joint. 



Anterior row of eyes but slightly procurved, shorter than the second ; 

 anterior median eyes about two-thirds their diameter apart, closer to 

 the lateral eyes which are two-thirds as large, hardly two-thirds tlieir 

 diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes three-fourths 

 their diameter from front margin of clypeus, their diameter or slightly 

 more from eyes of second row; eyes of second row two-thirds their 

 diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes slightly wider in front 

 than long, longer behind than in front in ratio of 9 : 7 (nearly), one- 

 fourth as long as the cephalothorax. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



Epigynum with the lateral tubercles widely rounded behind, being 

 mesally shallowly angularly excavate (PI. XXII, fig. 6). 



Total length, 4 mm. Ijength of cephalothorax, 1.9 mm.; width, 

 1.4 mm. 



Length of leg I, 5.4 mm.; tib. + pat., 1.9 mm.; met., 1.2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 5.1 mm. 



Length of leg III, 4.7 nmi. 



Length of leg IV, 7.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.3 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



Male. — For structure of palpal organ see PI. XXII, fig. 5. 



Syn. — 1890. Pirata minuta Fox (at least ad. part.), Proc. Ent. Soc. W. 

 Locality. — ^Washington, D. C. !. 



Pirata humioolus Montgomery, 1902. 



(Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 575, PI. 30, figs. 40, 41.) 



Female. — Sides of the cephalothorax brown to black with lighter 

 radiating lines; a yellow median band widening from behind, where it is 

 a mere line, forward and enclosing the usual dark bifurcate mark in its 

 front half; on each side a yellow supramarginal stripe which does not 

 extend upon the pars cephalica and which is limited below by a black 

 marginal line; in life there is a marginal line of white hair. Chelicerce, 

 labium and endites dark reddish brown. Sternum dark brown, paler 

 along middle and darker at lateral margins. Legs brown, often of green- 

 ish hue, the cox(e beneath paler, yellow. Palpi like the legs, paler at the 

 base. Dorsu?n of abdomen brown of greenish tinge; a basal lanceolate 

 median stripe; two rows of light spots clothed with white pubescence 

 on each side of the basal stripes and extending to the spinnerets 

 behind, the outer line often evidently only caudally, the spots of the 

 inner lines largest anteriorly connected by some thin cross-lines of white 

 hair; sides of abdomen yellowish brown tinged with green; venter 

 clear yellow, sometimes a few small black dots in front of spinnerets. 

 Epigynum reddish brown. Spinnerets yellow. 



Chelicerce one and one-third times the height of the face, the sides 

 of which are subvertical as in Pardosa. Anterior row of eyes a little 

 shorter than the second, a little procurved; eyes of second row nearly 

 their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth as long as 

 the cephalothorax. Lower margin of the furrow of the chelicerce armed 

 below with three teeth. 



Total length, 4 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 1.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 4.8 mm. 



Length of leg II, 4.3 mm. 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May^ 



Length of leg III, 4,2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 6.1 mm. 



Male. — Coloration darker than in the female. Cephalothorax nearly- 

 black. Abdomen nearly as in female but the venter darker. Chelicerce 

 black. Legs yeUow except the femora of the first two pairs which are 

 black. Femur of palpi black, the other joints paler. 



Total length, 2.9 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 1.7 mm. 



Svn. — 1903. Pirata humicolus Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 



-p. 654. 

 1904. Aulonia humicola, Montgomery, Proc, Acad. Nat, Sci. Pliila. p. 265, 

 PI. XX, fig. 33. 



Locality. — ^Pennsylvania, 



Known localities. — ^Pennsylvania!, New Jersey. 



Firata montanus Emerton, 1885, 



(Tr. Conn. Acad, Sci., p. 493, PI. 48, fig. 9.) 



Female. — Sides of cephalothorax deep brown or blackish with no 

 lighter marginal stripes ; a yeUow or reddish-yellow median stripe 

 beginning at the clypeus enclosing the dorsal eyes and then narromng 

 caudad, ending as a pointed line on the posterior declivity; median 

 band enclosing in front of dorsal groove a dark stripe which bifurcates, 

 sending one of its branches forward to and along the inner margins of 

 the eyes of each side; eyes enclosed with black; in life on each side a 

 marginal line of white hair, Chelicerce dark brown, paler distally, 

 the tips of claws reddish. Labium and endites brown, lighter distally 

 as usual. Sternum brown, a dark line or row of dark spots on each 

 side, the two converging caudad. Legs yeUow, without markings ex- 

 cepting sometimes faint annuli on femora. Abdomen above black; a 

 reddish-brown median lanceolate stripe at base extending to middle; 

 each side of apex of this stripe a reddish spot and behind a number of 

 chevron-shaped transverse marlcs; all these marks may be indistinct 

 and sometimes the basal stripe alone is distinguishable; in life there is 

 on each side a series of about six spots of light yehow hair; sides 

 colored like the dorsum but in life more densely pubescent; a short 

 line of yellow hair passing back across each antero-lateral angle, the 

 sides elsewhere being clothed with black hairs with more scattered ones 

 of yellow; venter brown, clothed with yellowish gray pubescence. 

 Spinnerets brown, Epigynum reddish black. 



Sides of jace steep, but evidently diverging outward below. 



First row of eyes nearly as long as the second, a little procurved ; anterior 

 median eyes more than half their diameter apart (nearly three-fourths), 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



nearly the same distance from the smaller lateral eyes (about 3 : 4) ; 

 anterior lateral eyes their diameter or rather a little less from the front 

 margin of clypeus, more than their diameter from eyes of second row; 

 eyes of second row less than their diameter apart; quadrangle of pos- 

 terior eyes more than one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax (1 : 4.5). 



Lower margin of the furrow of chelicerce with three teeth, of which 

 the middle one is usually a Uttle longest. 



Legs with tibia + patella IV longer than the cephalothorax, which 

 latter is longer than tibia + patella I; anterior tibia beneath with 

 three pairs of very long overlapping spines, the third pair being between 

 the middle pair and the distal end of the joint and truly ventral in 

 position (PI. X, fig. 9) ; patella II armed in front. 



Epigyniim with the posterior margin nearly straight; not excavated 

 mesally; the bulbs of the spermathecse contiguous mesally. (PI. XXII, 



fig. 9.) 



Total length, 2.4 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5 mm. 



Length of leg I, 6.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.2 nmi. ; met., 1.5 mm. 



Length of leg II, 6.2 mm. 



Length of leg III, 6.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 9.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 2.8 mm. 



Syn. — 1890. Pirata elegans Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 42. 



Pirata montanus, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564. 



1892. Pirata agilis Banks (ad. part), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 44, p. 72, 



PI. I, fig. 47. 

 1902. Pirata elegans, Montg., op. cit., p. 581, PL XXX, fig. 36. 



IPirata nigromaculatus Montg., ibid., p. 579, PI. 30, figs. 44, 45. 



1904. Pirata elegans, Montgomery, ibid., p. 310. 



. IPirata nigromaculatus, ibid., p. 310. 



Type locality. — New Hampshire (White Moimtains) and New York 

 (Adii-ondack Mountains at Long Lake). 



Known localities. — New York !, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Utah !. 



Pirata marxi Stone, 1890. 



(Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 42.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax in fresh specimens obscure brown to 

 gray-black, crossed by many radiating lines of black; a yellow median 

 band of the typical form enclosing the usual bifurcate mark in front of 

 the dorsal groove, the mark coalescing on each side just in front of the 

 groove with the dark area of the sides; there is thus between the arms 

 of the V-mark a narrow median yellow stripe or line which extends 

 forward to the second eye row, and on each side of pars cepbalica also a 

 narrow line which extends forward beneath the eyes to the clypeus, but 

 which is disconnected with the median stripe behind; on each side a 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



siipramarginal yellow stripe with uneven upper margin, and limited 

 below by a black marginal line; no marginal stripe of white hair. 

 Chelicerce reddish brown. Endites brown, pale distally, the labium 

 in most darker, dusky-brown to blackish. Sternum brown. Coxes 

 of legs beneath yellow. Legs clear yellow, darker distally, entirely 

 without dark rings or markings. Abdomen yellow with markings in 

 black as follows : at base above a lanceolate outline ; along each side of 

 dorsum a wavy or zigzag stripe, the two converging to spinnerets, 

 each united with lanceolate basal mark at its base and again at its 

 middle; the outwardly directed angles of these dark stripes often more 

 or less extended down the sides as narrow lines; along the median line 

 of dorsum behind several short black marks, sides of abdomen antero- 

 ventrally with a dark area composed of a close network of black lines, 

 and postero-dorsally with a number of isolated dark areas formed of 

 similar reticulations, leaving thus in most a clear yellow stripe of 

 varying width curving from the dorso-anterior angle obliquely down- 

 ward and backward between the two darkened areas described ; a row of 

 spots of yellow hair on each side of dorsimi behind; venter with some 

 scattered minute black dots, a few usually just behind the epigynum 

 and more numerous ones in front of spinnerets, the latter usually form- 

 ing two short hues close together which may extend forward to middle 

 or even to the spots behind epigynum, sides and venter clothed with 

 yellow hair. Spinnerets yellow. Epigynum pale brown, reddish 

 marginally, darker caudad. 



Face rather low and wide, sides well rounded and slanting. Cephalo- 

 thorax high ; highest at third eye row, from there convexly rounded to 

 the dorsal groove; posterior declivity steep. 



Anterior row of eyes as wide as the second, nearly straight, the centers 

 of the lateral eyes being but little' lower than those of the median; 

 anterior median eyes a little larger than the lateral, scarcely one-third 

 their diameter apart, their radius from eyes of second row; anterior 

 lateral eyes four-fifths their diameter from front margin of clypeus, the 

 same distance from eyes of second row ; eyes of second row less than 

 their radius apart (2 : 5) ; quadrangle of posterior eyes less than one- 

 fifth as long as cephalothorax (1: 5.5), wider in front than long, very 

 wide behind, being wider than in front in ratio of 8.4: 5.6. 



Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with but two teeth. Labium 

 longer than wide, the basal excavation longer than is common ; front 

 margin substraight, or but slightly convex. Legs with the tibia + patella 

 of the fourth pair longer than the cephalothorax; the corresponding 

 joints of the first pair slightly shorter than the cephalothorax; anterior 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



tibifp armed below with two pairs of spines in the usual position, 

 shorter than usual in this genus, those of the first pair not over- 

 lapping the bases of the second, to which they usually do not fully 

 extend ; all tarsi subsparsely setose. 



The epigynum is a large quadrangular area which is somewhat wider 

 in front than behind, the lateral margins being substraight and a little 

 converging caudad ; the posterior border is angularly excavated at the 

 middle and the spermatheca open on each side caudad directly into the 

 excavation, their terminal portions often showing darkly through the 

 chitinous wall. (PI. XXII, fig. 8.) 



Total length, 7.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.2 mm.; width, 



2.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.1 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 8.1 mm. 



Length of leg III, 7.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 10.6 mm.; tib. + pat., 3.5 mm.; met., 3 mm. 



Male. — Coloration as in the female. 



Tibia of the palpus longer than the patella, of the same thick- 

 ness (seen from above) ; tarsus much broader than the tibia. 

 Principal branch of apophysis of conductor long, curving outward 

 above; basal branch relatively large; base of apophysis farther caudad 

 than usual. (PL XXI, fig. 8.) 



Total length, 5.6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.; width, 



2.3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.1 mm. ; met., 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 7.9 mm. 



Length of leg III, 7.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 10.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.2 mm. ; met., 3 mm. 



Syn.— 1885. Pirata piratica Emerton (non CI.), Tr. C. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 492, 

 PI. 48, figs. 7 to 7b. 



1890. Pirata piratica Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564. 



1891. Pirata piratica Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., p. 161. 



1892. Pirata piratica Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 44. 

 1902. Pirata jriratica Emerton, Com. Sp. U. S., p. 84, figs. 208, 209. 



1902. Pirata niarxi, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 582, PI. 



XXX, fig. 47. 

 1904. Pirata marxi, Montgomery, ibid., p. 309, PI. XIX, fig. 27. 



Type ZocaZ%.— Pennsylvania (York County). 



Known localities. — Massachusetts!, Connecticut, Rhode Island!, New 

 York !, District of Columbia. 



Pirata insularis Emerton, 1885. 



(Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 492, PI. 48, figs. 8, 8a.) 

 Fe77iale.— Sides of cephalothorax brown crossed by radiating Unes of 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May^ 



black; a median reddish-yellow band of the usual form enclosing the 

 V-shaped mark in front; on each side also a yellowish supramarginal 

 stripe with uneven upper edge and limited below by a narrow dark 

 marginal stripe, this stripe not extending forward beyond the cervical 

 furrow; cephalothorax with sparse, short dark hairs, no marginal lines 

 of white pubescence. Chelicerce reddish yellow, clothed sparsely with 

 light gray hair. Labium and endites reddish yellow, paler distally. 

 Sternum and coxcb of legs beneath reddish yellow, sparsely provided 

 with mostly stiff blackish hairs, the former often blackish along sides 

 and pale mesally. Legs brownish yellow, all joints excepting the tarsi 

 with more or less distinct dark annulations, or these sometimes very 

 indistinct on or absent from the metatarsi. Abdomen above blackish; 

 at base above a yellow lanceolate median stripe extending caudally to 

 the middle; each side of the apex of the lanceolate stripe is a yellow 

 spot and behind is a number of transverse yellow marks, each of which, 

 has in most cases the shape of an open angle with the apex directed 

 forward, but more rarely the marks are nearly straight; each side of the 

 median markings of the dorsum above described is in life a series of 

 white spots formed of bunches of white hair, the dorsum elsewhere 

 being sparsely clothed with short yellowish hairs and more scattered 

 long dark bristles; a narrow yellow stripe or row of yellow spots passing 

 over each antero-lateral angle caudally, breaking up over the side into 

 more scattered yellow dashes; this yellow stripe on front of sides often 

 partly masked by white hair, but this hair never forming a very distinct 

 or extensive line or stripe; venter pale yellow to grayish, a darker 

 median line behind epigynum, hair of entire venter yellow. Spin- 

 nerets light brown. 



Seen in profile the dorsal line of the cephalothorax is nearly horizontal, 

 notched at dorsal groove. The chelicerse about one and one-fourth times 

 the height of the face. 



First row of eyes nearly as long as the second, nearly straight; 

 anterior median eyes less than their radius apart, closer to the evi- 

 dently smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes less than their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus, some more than their diameter 

 from eyes of second row ; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth as long 

 as the cephalothorax. 



Labium longer than wide (7 : 6) ; basal excavation a little more than 

 one-fourth as long as the labium ; sides below straight and but slightly 

 converging, more strongly converging and more rounded above; front 

 margin substraight, being very slightly bowed forv/ard. Legs with the 

 tibia + patella of the fourth pair clearly longer than the cephalothorax. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



the corresponding joints of the first legs being also a little longer; 

 anterior tibise armed beneath as usual; patella of leg I unarmed, that 

 of leg II with a spine in front; tarsi setose. 



Epigynum presenting two more or less divergent tubercles caudad, 

 upon the ventral face of which the spermatheca open; these tubercles, 

 at first angular, ma}^ become more rounded with age. (PL XXII, 

 fig. 4.) 



Total length, 6.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.1 nun.; width, 

 2.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 9.2 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.3 mm. ; met., 2.2 mm 



Length of leg II, 8.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 7.7 mnL 



Length of leg IV, 11.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.7 mm. ; met., 3.6 mm. 



Male. — Coloration nearly as in female except that the femora and 

 tibise are indistinctly annulate and the other joints clear yellow; the 

 palpi are brown of reddish tinge. 



For structure of palpus see PL XXII, fig. 3. 



Total length, 4.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.2 mm. 



Syn.— 1890. Plrata insularis, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564. 

 1892. Pirata insularis, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 41, p. 71. 

 1902. Pirata liber Montgomery, op. cil., p. 578, PL 30, figs. 42, 43. 

 1904. Pirata liber, ibid., p. 311. 



I'ype locality. — ^Loiig I^ake, Adirondack Mountains, New York. 



Known localities. — Rhode Island !, New York!, Pennsylvania!. 



This is a common species which is subject to considerable variation, 

 both in some of its structural characters and, more noticeably, in depth 

 of coloration. In some the annulations are very deep and distinct and 

 the body parts are correspondingly dark, while in others the annula- 

 tions may be very indistinct. 



Pirata febriculosa (Beck), 1881. 



(.\nn. Soc. Ent. Belg., 25, PI. 3, figs. 2, 2a.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax dark brown to blackish of usually 

 greenish tinge; a reddish yellow median band narrow caudally and 

 widening anteriorly to the eye region, where it expands and passes below 

 the eyes of each side and attains the clypeus; in front of dorsal furrow 

 a median black line which bifurcates sending a branch forward to inner 

 side of third eye of each side in the usual manner; on each side a 

 moderately wide yellow or reddish-yellow marginal band which 

 extends forward as far as the cervical furrow; clypeus yellow; eye 

 region black; along each lateral margin in life a distinct hne of white 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



hair much narrower than the Hght band in tegument; the sides of the 

 cephalothorax are sparsely clothed with short black. hairs. Chelicerce 

 yellowish brown, distally reddish yellow, clothed subsparsely with 

 long light gray hair. Labium pale brown, lighter distally. Sternum 

 and coxce of legs beneath yellow, clothed sparsely with blackish hairs. 

 Legs greenish yellow, more reddish distally, sometimes without evident 

 markings, but in the great majority with faint dark annulations show- 

 ing most distinctly on the femora and tibiae of the posterior pairs ; these 

 annuli usually broken above. Abdomen above black or blackish 

 brown; at base is a narrow lanceolate reddish-yellow stripe which ends 

 at middle and is margined with a line of black, outside and parallel with 

 the black edge being in life a line of white hair, the two white lines 

 meeting at a truncate angle on posterior portion of dorsum, these lines 

 sometimes each reduced to a row of spots or less commonly entirely 

 absent ; a narrow stripe of white hair passing caudad over each antero- 

 lateral angle and spreading out usually in streaks over the upper part 

 of side and connecting behind with the white of opposite side above spin- 

 nerets; lower portion of sides brown and, like most of dorsum, clothed 

 with brown hair; venter brown to gra}^, paler in front of genital fur- 

 row. Tubercles of eipigynum reddish. Spinnerets pale brown. 



Face a little more than half as high as the length of the chelicercB. 



Anterior row of eyes nearly as long as second, slightly procurved; 

 anterior median eyes their radius apart; much closer to the lateral eyes ; 

 anterior lateral eyes considerably smaller than the median, their 

 diameter or nearly so from the front margin of clypeus, more than 

 their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row consider- 

 ably less than their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes less 

 than one-fifth as long as the cephalothorax (1 : 5.5). 



Chelicerce armed as usual. Labium longer than wider ( 10.5 : 10) ; basal 

 excavation short, scarcely more than one-fifth as long as labium ; lower 

 part of sides nearly straight, only slightly converging, but for upper third 

 more strongly rounded and converging; front margin truncate. Legs 

 with the tibia + patella of the fourth pair longer than the cephalo- 

 thorax; the corresponding joints of the first pair shorter than the 

 cephalothorax; tarsi of first two pairs of legs scopulate laterally, those 

 of the posterior pairs simply setose ; anterior tibia below with the usual 

 basal and submedian pairs of legs which are long, the first well over- 

 lapping the second ; patellae of first legs unarmed, those of second with a 

 spine on anterior face. 



Epigynum presenting behind two angular tubercles, the inner or 

 mesal faces of which are nearly parallel and are more than usually 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



close together leaving the excavation between them narrow; their 

 outer faces clearly more strongly diverging than the inner. (PI. 

 XXII, fig. 2.) 



Total length, 7.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.3 mm.; width, 

 2.6 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 7.6 mm. 



Length of leg III, 7.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 11.2 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.6 mm. ; met., 3.2 mm. 



Male. — ^For structure of palpal organ see PI. XXII, fig. 1. 



Syn. — 1904. Lycosa icacondana Scheffer, The Industrialist, Kansas, p. 13, 



PL I, fig. 7. 

 1904. Pirata sedentarius , Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 312. 



Type locality. — Kansas. 



Known localities. — New York !, Kansas !, Iowa !, Texas !. 



Apparently this species is close to L. piratica. The palpal organs are 

 similar, but in jebricu'.osa the superior horn of the apophysis is at once 

 seen to be longer and straighter and more outwardly directed. 



Pirata piratica (Clerck) var. utahensis, new. 



Male. — Palpal organ agreeing in detail with that of the European 

 species or nearly so. 



Cephalothorax with the median pale stripe and dark 'S^-shaped 

 enclosure as usual, the arms of the latter parallel anteriorly back to 

 posterior third, then converging to a point. Laterial pale stripes 

 reaching pars cephalica, each bordered below wdth a dark marginal 

 stripe. A marginal line of bright white hair showing in life or in dry 

 specimen as in jebriculosa and piratica of type fomi. Femora of all 

 legs with dark annuli, these most distinct on second and third pairs, 

 showing clearly on the ventral surface of the latter; other joints 

 unmarked, distal ones some darker. Sternum and coxce beneath pale. 

 Abdomen black above, the usual pale mark at base; a white stripe of 

 hair over each antero-lateral angle ; a narrower line of white hair each 

 side of basal mark, followed behind by a row of white spots similarly 

 formed; venter pale, with three narrow stripes of brown converging 

 caudally. 



Length, 6.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.4 mm. ; width, 2.5 mm. 



Locality. — Utah !. 



Likely to be found throughout the Pacific States. 



Pirata prodigiosa Keyserling, 1876. 



CV^erh. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 669, PI. 8, fig. 44.) 

 Female. — CephalotJiorax brown with a narrow black line along each 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



lateral inargin, above which is an uneven edged, wavy yellow stripe; 

 a similarly colored median band, which beginning narrow behind 

 widens cephalad, is constricted a little behind the eyes and then again 

 widens to enclose the eyes as usual, embracing in its anterior half two 

 dark elongate marks which beginning at the two posterior eyes con- 

 verge and unite at the front end of the median furrow; eyes enclosed in 

 black. Chelicerce reddish yellow. Labium brownish 3^ellow with paler 

 tip. Sternum blackish with a yellow median stripe and on each side 

 three similarly colored elongate spots. Legs yellow, a little darker 

 distally, with faint indications of light rings. Palpi yellow, distal 

 joints brown. Abdomen above dark gray; anteriorly with a yellow 

 stripe, near this two small spots, and behind this and extending to the 

 spinnerets a number of paired successively smaller and smaller spots of 

 the same yellow color; sides marked with small streaks and dots of 

 yellow ; venter smoky white'Vith three brown longitudinal stripes and 

 several similarly^colored streaks at the sides of these. Epigynum clear 

 reddish brown. Spirmerets browjiish yellow. In a second specimen 

 the sternum has two dark, indistinct, parallel longitudinal lines over its 

 middle region. 



Cephalothorax shorter than the tibia + patella of the fourth pair of 

 legs, as wide as the metatarsus of the same legs, not highly arched, the 

 entire back apparently of similar height, toward the lateral margins 

 fiat and toward the nearly straight caudal margin rather steeply slop- 

 ing ; cephalic furrows indistinct, the head in front low and sloping flatly 

 at the sides. 



Anterior row of eyes straight, somewhat shorter than the second, 

 separated from the latter and from the margin of the clypeus by not 

 fully the diameter of one of the somewhat larger median eyes; eyes 

 of the second row nearly their diameter apart, more than this from 

 the two-thirds as large eyes of the third, distinctly wider row; entire 

 eye area wider behind than in front. Chelicerse someAvhat enlarged in 

 front, not entirely twice as wide as the labium, which is somewhat 

 longer than wide and is anteriorly somewhat excavated. Sternum 

 somewhat longer than broad, moderately arched and clothed with a 

 few black bristles. Legs moderately slender, the fourth pair somewhat 

 more than three and one-half times as long as the cephalothorax and 

 about twice the length of its tarsus longer than the first; tibia + patella 

 IV somewhat longer than metatarsus which is longer than the femur; 

 principal claws of tarsi with 6-7 teeth, the middle one with none; only 

 a thin scopula on tarsi of the two first pairs, none on the posterior; 

 spines of femur I above 1, 1, 1, within 1, without none, of patella I 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



none, of tibia I below 2, 2, 2, within 1 ; spines of second legs the same 

 as for I. Posterior spinnerets twice as long as the anterior and dis- 

 tinctly two-jointed ; the middle pair very slender but as long as the 

 anterior. 



Total length, 6.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.8 mm.; width, 

 -2.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 7.9 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.8 mm. ; met., 1.7 mm. 



Length of leg II, 7.3 nmi. 



Length of leg III, 6.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 10.1 mm.; tib. + pat., 3.3 mm.; met., 3 mm. 



Syn.— 1890. Plraia prodigiosa Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 64. 



Locality. — Illinois (Peoria). 

 Types in collection of Dr. Koch. 



Pirata bilobata (Tullgren), 1901. 



(Bih. till sv. Vet.-Akad. Handl., B. 27, Abd. 4, No. 1, p. 22, Plate, fig. 12.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax light brown, clothed with short dark 

 ad pressed hairs and strewed with long dark upturned bristly hairs; the 

 pars cephalica with three lighter bands and at the margins of pars 

 thoracica a broad liglit band. Chelicerce light bro\\ai and strewed with 

 long bristly hairs. Endites yellow and clothed by long bristly hairs. 

 Sternum light brown, clothed by long black bristly hairs. Legs pale 

 brown. Abdomen above dark brown with a lighter middle band and 

 three pairs of very small white spots ; the venter light yellowish brown. 

 Epigynum. dark corneous. 



Cephalothorax with a long and distinct central furrow on pars 

 thoracica ; in length a little shorter than the length of tibia and patella 

 and the breadth shorter than the length of tibia of the fourth pair of 

 legs. Front row of eyes distinctly procurved ; the intervals about equal ; 

 the central eyes nearly twice as large as the lateral eyes ; the interspace 

 between the central eyes and the margin of the clj^peus as long as the 

 diameter of the eyes; eyes of the middle row separated from each other 

 by an interspace about as broad as their diameter and separated from 

 the central anterior eyes by an interspace about as long as the diameter 

 of these eyes; the distance from the posterior eyes a little longer 

 than the diameter of the middle eyes. Chelicerce about twice as long as 

 the face, tapering at the apex. Endites about twice as long as labium. 



The epigynum bilobate, the lobes rounded. 



Total length, 3.8 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.5 mm.; width, 

 1.8 mm. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Length of leg I, 6.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 8.6 mm. 



Locality. — Florida. Two achilt females from Lake Leonore in Oraiige 

 County. 



Although this species was described as a Pardosa, it seems very clear 

 from the structure of the epigynum, as shown in the figure accompany- 

 ing the original description, taken in connection with several points 

 in the description, that it is a Pirata. The statement that the pars 

 cephalica is marked with "three lighter bands" indicates the presence 

 of the peculiar Pirata marking of the cephalothorax. 



Explanation of Plates VIII- XXIII. 



Plate VIII. — General Characteristics op the Genus Pardosa. 

 Fig. 1. — Right chelicera of P. sternalis. 

 Fig. 2. — Dorsal view of the cephalothorax of P. lapidicina. 

 Fig. 3. — Right chelicera of P. atra. 

 Fig. 4. — Labium of P. lapidicina. 

 Fig. 5. — Face of same. 

 Fig. 6. — -Labium of P. emerloni. 



Fig. 7. — Ventral view of tarsus of first leg of P. sternalis. 

 Fig. 8. — Labium of P. atra. 

 Fig. 9. — Tibia of first leg of P. sternalis seen from behind and slightlj' below. 



Plate IX. — General Characteristics of the Genus Lycosa. 

 Fig. 1. — Right chelicera of L. gulosa. 

 Fig. 2. — Dorsal ^dew of cephalothorax of L. helluo. 

 Fig. 3.— Right chelicera of L. kochii. 



Fig. 4. — Tibia of first leg of same viewed from behind and a httle below. 

 Fig. .5. — Face of L. helluo. 



Fig. 6. — Tarsus of fourth leg of same seen from the side. 

 Fig. 7. — Side view of tarsus of first leg of L. helluo showing scopula. 

 Fig. 8. — Labium of L. errotica. 

 Fig. 9.— Labium of L. aspersa. 



Plate X. — General Characteristics of the Genera Allocosa and Pirata. 

 Fig. 1. — Tibia of first leg of A. degesta \'iewed from the side and a little below. 

 Fig. 2. — Face of same. 



Fig. 3. — Tibia of first leg of A.funerea seen from the side and a little below. 

 Fig. 4. — Labium of same. 



Fig. 5. — Dorsal view of cephalothorax of P. montanus. 

 Fig. G. — Labium of same. 



Fig. 7. — Tibia of first leg of same "sdewed from the side and a little below. 

 Fig. 8. Spinnerets of same ^dewed from the side. 

 Fig. 9. — Tarsus of first leg of P. montanus viewed from the side. 



Plate XI. — General Char.\cteristics of the Genera Sosippus and Trabea. 

 Fig. 1. — Labium of S. floridanus. 

 Fig. 2. — Face of same. 

 Fig. 3. — Right chelicera of same. 



Fig. 4. — Tibia of first leg of same viewed from in front and a little below. 

 Fig. 5.— Spinnerets of same. 

 Fig. 6. — Tarsus and part of metatarsus of first leg of same viewed from the 



side. 

 Fig. 7. — Right chelicera of T. aurantiaca. 

 Fig. 8. — Dorsal \-\ew of cephalothorax of T. aurantiaca. 

 Fig. 9. — Labium of T. aurantiaca. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



Plate XII. — General CnAitACTERisTics op the Genus Tkabea (continued) 



AND SOSILAUS. 



Fig. 1. — Face of T. aurantiaca. 



Fig. 2. — Epig)Tium of T. aurantiaca. 



Fig. 3.— Male palpal organ of T. aurantiaca drawn out from the alveolus. 



Fig. 4.— Tibia of first leg of T. aurantiaca viewed from the side and below. 



Fig. 5. — Dorsal view of front part of pars cephalica of S. spiniger. 



Fig. 6. — Face of S. spiniger. 



Plate XIII. — Copulatory Organs of Species of Pardosa. 

 Fig. 1 . — Epigynum of P. saxatilis. 

 Fig. 2. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 3. — Epigynum of P. milvina. 

 Fig. 4. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 5. — Epigynum of P. sternalis. 

 Fig. 6. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 7. — Epigynum of P. banksi. 

 Fig. 8. — Epigvnum of P. afra. 

 Fig. 9. — Epigynum of P. pauxilla. 



Plate XIV.— Copulatory Organs of Species of Pardosa (continued). 

 Fig. 1. — Epigynum of Pardosa emertoni. 



Fig. 2.— Epigynum of P. sternalis, immature ( P=. coloradensis Bks.). 

 Fig. 3. — Epigynum of P. xerampelina. 

 Fig. 4. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 5. — Epigynum of P. californica. 

 Fig. 6. — Epigynum of P. grcenlandica. 

 Fig. 7. — EpigjTium of P. lapidicina. 

 Fig. 8. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 9. — Epigynum of P. moesta. 



Plate. XV.— Copulatory Organs of Species of Pardosa (continued). 

 Fig. 1. — Epigynum of P. modica, typical form. 

 Fig. 2.— Palpus of id., typical form (after Emerton), 

 Fig. 3. — Epigynum of P. modica var. hrunnea. 

 Fig. 4. — ^Palpusof same. 

 Fig. 5. — Epigynum of P. mackenziana. 

 Fig. 6.— Palpus of same, front view (after Emerton). 

 Fig. 7. — Id., side view (after Emerton). 

 Fig. 8. — EpigjTium of P. distincta (after Emerton). 

 Fig. 9. — Palpus of same (after Emerton). 



Plate XVI. — The Genus Schizocosa. 

 Fig. 1. — Epigynum of S. ocreata. 

 Fig. 2.— Palpus of S. saltatrix. 

 Fig. 3. — Epigynum of S. bilineata. 

 Fig. 4. — Epigynum of S. saltatrix. 

 Fig. 5. — Palpus of S. ocreata. 



Plate XVII. — Copulatory Organs of Species of Lycosa. 

 Fig. 1. — EpigjTium of L. helluo. 

 Fig. 2. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 3. — Epigjmum of L. erratica. 

 Fig. 4. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 5. — Epigynum of L. riparia. 

 Fig. 6. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 7. — Epigynum of L. aspersa. 

 Fig. 8. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 9. — Epigynum of L. scutulata. 



Plate XVIII.— Copulatory Organs of Species of Lycosa (continued). 

 Fig. 1. — Palpus of L. scutulata. 

 Fig. 2. — Epigynum of L. punctulata. 

 21 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Fig. 3. — Palpus of same. 



Fig. 4. — Epigynum of L. frondicola. 



Fig. 5. — Palpus of same. 



Fig. 6. — Epigynum of L. coloradensis. 



Fig. 7. — Palpus of same. 



Fig. 8. — Epigynum of L. lenta. 



Fig. 9. — Palpus of same. 



Plate XIX. — Copulatory Organs of Species of Lycosa (continued). 

 Fig. 1. — Palpus of L. albohastata (type). 

 Fig. 2. — Epigynum of L. fumosa (type). 

 Fig. 3. — Palpus of same (type). 

 Fig. 4. — Palpus of L. heani (type). 

 Fig. 5. — Epigynum of same (type). 

 Fig. 6. — Palpus of L. pidilis (type). 

 Fig. 7. — Epigynum of L. quinaria (type). 

 Fig. 8. — Epigynum of L. pictilis (type). 

 Fig. 9. — Epigj-num of L. ruhicunda. 



Plate XX. — Copulatory Organs of Species op Lycosa (continued). 

 Fig. 1 . — Palpus of L. avara, side view. 

 Fig. 2. — Epigynum of same. 

 Fig. 3. — Palpus of same, ventral view. 

 Fig. 4. — Epigynum of //. avara var. gosiuta. 

 Fig. 5. — Palpus of L. cinerea. 

 Fig. 6. — Epigynum of same. 

 Fig. 7. — Palpus of Allocosa parva. 

 Fig. 8. — Epigynum of L. fatifera. 

 Fig. 9. — Epigynum of L. arenicola. 



Plate XXI. — Copulatory Organs of Species][^of2 Lycosa (continued) and 

 OF Species of Pirata. 

 Fig. 1. — Epigynum of L. carolinensis. 

 Fig. 2. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 3. — Epigynum of L. pratensis. 

 Fig. 4. — Palpus of L. kochii. 

 Fig. 5. — Epigynum of same. 

 Fig. 6. — Palpus of L. gulosa. 

 Fig. 7. — Epigynum of same. 

 Fig. 8. — Palpus of P. marxi. 

 Fig. 9. — Palpus of P. minutus. 



Plate XXII. — Copulatory Organs of Species of Pirata (continued). 

 Fig. 1. — Palpus of P. febriadosa. 

 Fig. 2. — Epigynum of same. 

 Fig. 3. — Palpus of P. insularis. 

 Fig. 4. — Epigynum of same. 

 Fig. 5. — Palpus of P. aspirans. 

 Fig. 6. — Epigynum of same. 

 Fig. 7. — Epigjmum of P. minutus. 

 Fig. 8. — Epigynum of P. marxi. 

 Fig. 9. — Epigynum of P. montanus. 



Plate XXIII. — Copulatory Organs of Species of Sosippus and Ali,ocosa. 

 Fig. 1. — Palpus of S. floridanus. 

 Fig. 2. — Epigynum of same. 

 Fig. 3. — Palpus of A. rugosa. 

 Fig. 4. — Epigynum of A . eragata. 



Fig. 5. — Epigvnum of ^4. degesta (that of funerea similar). 

 (See also PI. XX, fig. 7.) 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



DESCRIPTION OF TRACHYPTERUS SELENIRIS, A NEW SPECIES OF RIBBON- 

 FISH FROM MONTEREY BAY, CALIFORNIA. 



BY .JOHN OTTERBEIN SNYDER. 



Early in June of last year a large Ribbon-fish was found almost 

 stranded on the beach at Monterey, California. It was secured by Mr. 

 Frederick A. Wood worth, of Pacific Grove, and through his kindly 

 interest sent to Stanford University for identification. Its close 

 resemblance to Trachyptcrus ishikawce^ of Japan was at once apparent, 

 but a detailed examination was impossible at that time on account of 

 the decayed condition of the specimen, the delicate silvery skin leaving 

 the body at a touch of the finger, and the muscles almost parting from 

 the bones. After a long immersion in a mixture of strong alcohol and 

 formalin, it may now be handled without further injury. 



When the IVIonterey specimen is compared with the type of Trachyp- 

 terus ishikaivce, certain differences appear which indicate that we have 

 to deal with two distinct species, one of which, being unknown, is here 

 described as Trachypterus seleniris. The latter differe from T. ishika- 

 wce, the most nearly allied form, in having a more slender body, a 

 smaller head, a smaller eye, and a weaker armature of the body. The 

 chief differences may be tabulated thus : 



T. seleniris. T. ishikawce. 



Length in millimeters 1520 1650 



Head in length 9^ times. 8| times. 



Depth near middle of body 11 " 7| " 



Depth at beginning of posterior third ISi " 14 " 



Diameter of eve 32 " 25 " 



Length of maxillary 25 " 22 " 



Trachypterus seleniris n. sp. 



Head, 9^ in the lengtJi; depth, 9|; eye, 3| in head; dorsal rays, 168; 

 pectoral, 9. 



Length of head greater than its depth, about equal to depth of body 

 in region of pectoral ; snout 3 in head ; width of interorbital space 2 in 

 diameter of eye ; lower jaw projecting slightly beyond the upper ; 



^ Trachypterus ishikaivce Jordan and Snyder, Journal of the College of Science, 

 Imperial University, Tokyo, Vol. XV, Pt. 2, p. .310, PI. XVII, fig. 10; Smithsonian 

 Miscellaneous Collections, 45, p. 240, PI. LXIII. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



process of maxillary extending to a vertical through posterior border of 

 eye; maxillary with a leaf -like flap a fourth of its length longer than 

 diameter of eye, and with branched striations radiating from its point 

 of attachment; opercular bones conspicuously striated. Teeth weak; 

 loosely attached ones on vomer, a row of 4 on maxillary, and 4 on each 

 side of symphysis of lower jaw, the posterior of which is 2 times the 

 length of the anterior. Gill-rakers on first arch 5 -f- 10, provided with 

 tooth-like setse on the inner side; filaments of pseud obranchise equal in 

 length to those of gills. 



Origin of dorsal above upper edge of gill-opening, the rays highest 

 near beginning of posterior third of body where they are about l-J 

 times the diameter of eye; anterior rays not separated from the pos- 

 terior ones nor lengthened. Length of pectoral slightly more than 

 diameter of orbit. A'^entral fins absent, or possibly represented by a 

 mere filament, the place of insertion indicated by a spot on the breast 

 below base of pectoral, where the skin, colored and sculptured, looks 

 much like a pair of folded fins. Caudal projecting upwards; short 

 fragmentar}'- filaments present; several small spines projecting down- 

 wards and backwards from the broadened end of the caudal peduncle. 



Head naked; scales of body in the form of minute pads or plates 

 containing a varying amount of bony matter; those on median ventral 

 surface pointed, hard and white like enamel, covering a narrow ridge 

 and lying in a single row near extremity of tail; among those on dorsal 

 part of body, some are enlarged and arranged in vertical rows parallel 

 with the interneurals. Lateral line with small, quill-like tubes; 

 beginning at upper edge of gill-opening, bending rather abruptly 

 downwards and extending along body somewhat below the median 

 line; not armed at any point. 



Color bright silvery. 



Type No. 13,080 Stanford University collection. 



Called seleniris on account of a fancied resemblance of the long, 

 flat, silvery body to the colorless lunar rainbow. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



SOME POLYCH^TOUS ANNELIDS OF THE NORTHERN PACIFIC COAST 

 OF NORTH AMERICA. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



This paper is a final report embodying the results of a study of all of 

 the Polychceta submitted to me by the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries from 

 the collections made by the steamer Albatross during the summer of 

 1903. I'rom June 19 to August 24 of that year, while in the service of 

 a special Commission appointed by the President to investigate the 

 salmon fisheries of Alaska, the Albatross cruised northward along the 

 coast from Port Townsend and Vancouver on the south, through part 

 of the labyrinth of straits and passages which separate the islands of 

 southeastern Alaska, as far as Shelekof Strait on the north and west, 

 occupying meanwhile 112 dredging stations and a number of addi- 

 tional hydrographic and towing stations. Some little shore collecting 

 was also conducted. 



During the cruise the vessel was under the command of the late 

 Lieut. Franklin Swift, U.S.N. , to whose skill in handhng her must 

 be largeh^ credited the large number of successful hauls made with 

 trawl and dredge. The extent of the collection and the generally 

 excellent preservation of the annelids similarly attest the energy and 

 ability which Prof. Harold Heath devoted to collecting the inverte- 

 brates, placed under his immediate charge. 



In all 107 species of Polychseta are represented. Of this number 41 

 species are considered to be previously und escribed. The descriptions 

 of only two of these, however, appear for the first time in this paper, the 

 remaining 39 having been published, with the courteous approval of 

 the Commissioner, Hon. George M. Bowers, in these Proceedings for 1905, 

 pp. 525-569, 846-860, and for 1906, pp. 217-260, together with plates 

 illustrating important diagnostic features. 



Supplementing the results of the study of the Albatross collections 

 are added some notes on a few polychsetes in the collection of this 

 Academy, gathered by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at Icy Cape^ and Unalaska, 



' The northernmost point of that nnme. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Alaska; by Mr. A. E. Mcllhenny at Point Barrow, Alaska, and by Mr. 

 George Dawson at Admiralty Inlet, Washington. From this source 

 are added 7 species not otherwise represented, 2 of them having been 

 described as new in these Proceedings for 1906, pp. 352-355. The 

 total number of species considered is, therefore, 114. 



After deducting the 43 new species, the 71 remaining may be classi- 

 fied from the point of view of geographical distribution as follows : 16, 

 so far as known, are confined to the region under consideration, having 

 been reported from some part of it, but not elsewhere, by previous 

 writers; 12 occur to the southward along the coast of California, though 

 most of them have already been recorded from Puget Sound or the 

 Gulf of Georgia by Johnson and others; 8 have been described as 

 occurring off the coast of Japan, and probably all of the latter have, 

 as several are known to have, a wide distribution throughout the 

 North Pacific; 4 are scattering; and the remaining 31 are well-known 

 inhabitants of northern Europe, Greenland and the Arctic regions 

 generall5^ Many of the latter are established circumpolar forms and 

 have been already reported by Marenzeller or Wiren as belonging to the 

 fauna of Bering Sea, or by others as occurring in the North Pacific. 



In not a few cases it is evident that the individuals referred to such 

 species differ in certain respects from their European representatives. 

 In a few species like TerebelUdes strcemii individuals of almost every 

 colony present certain characteristic differences. In the belief that the 

 future will show that such wide-ranging species split up into man)'- 

 geographical subspecies just as land animals do, and that such sub- 

 species cannot be satisfactorily discriminated until our knowledge of 

 the distribution and variation of annelids shall have been very greatly 

 augmented, it has been thought best to merely mention such differ- 

 ences, without giving to them nomenclatorial importance. 



In this report it has been thought sufficient to the purpose to record 

 only the general location of the stations, together with the depth of 

 water and the character of the bottom. The full data relating to each 

 station, including its exact location, have been carefully compiled by 

 Mr. Henry C. Fassett and published in the Report of the U. S. Fish 

 Commission for 1903, pp. 123 to 13S. 



Except in the two or three cases where it is stated otherwise, all 

 types have been forwarded to the U. S. National Museum. Cotypes, 

 whenever such exist, are deposited at the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. The references given under each species are either 

 to its original description or to later accounts fiu'iiished with good 

 figures and synonymies. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



SYLLIDiE. 



Syllis armillaris (Mailer) Malmgren. 



Nereis armillaris Mtillor, Zoologise danicse prodromus, 1776, p. 217, 



Syllis armillaris, Malmgren, Annulata Polychaeta, 1867, p. 42, Tab, VII, fig. 



46, 

 Syllis borealis Malmgren, ibid., p. 42, Tab. VI, fig. 42, 

 Typosyllis armillaris, Marenzeller, Ann. K, K. Naturh, Hofmuseums,V(1890), 



p. 3. 



Two small and immature examples 11 imn. long agree well with the 

 descriptions cited above and bear out fully Marenzeller's conclusions 

 concerning the synonymy of the species and confirm his record of its 

 occurrence in Bering Sea, One specimen is beautifully marked with 

 dainty transverse lines of dark brown or black pigment; there being 

 two lines across each segment as far as XV and beyond that point one 

 line to the middle of the body. The accessory tooth at the tip of the 

 setae, which was overlooked by Malmgren, is almost always present. 

 The median tentacle has 15 joints, the paired tentacles 11 to 14 joints, 

 the dorsal and ventral peristomial cirri 15 and 10 respectively^, the first 

 dorsal cirrus (somite II) 18 joints, the middle dorsal cirri 9 to 14 joints, 

 with the greatest diameter at the 4th or 5th, and the caudal cirri 14 

 joints. In one specimen the gizzard extends from somite XIII to 

 XXII. 



Stations 4261, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, Alaska, July 24, 8^10 

 fathoms, green mud and rocks; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 

 Alaska, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud, 

 Syllis alternata new species. 



The type and largest example (from Station 4228) is 30 mm, long 

 with 160 segments, the posterior 28 of which are filled with eggsi 

 without, however, exhibiting any sign of stolonization. Other examples 

 are from 16 to 20 mm. long with from 116 to 125 segments. The form 

 is slender and the diameter nearly uniform, the body slightly widened 

 to about XX, strongly arched above and flattened below. The seg- 

 ments are all sharply defined and very short, usually 6 to 8 times as 

 wide as long. 



The prostomium (a) is about H times as wide as long, as shown in 

 the figure of a cotype, but may be partly concealed beneath a fold of 

 the peristomium. Slight anterior and posterior contractions give 

 the effect of prominently bulging sides. The palpi are about twice the 

 length of the prostomium, project prominently straight forward and 

 are narrow distally. Of the two pairs of small reddish-brown eyes, the 

 anterior are larger, decidedly farther apart and crescentic or bean- 

 shaped as seen from above. In the type specimen the two pairs of 

 eyes are closer together but riot larger than in the smaller specimens. 




324 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June^ 



All of the appendages are strongly moniliform. The tentacles are 

 rather stout but gently tapered. The median arises between the eyes, 

 is nearly twice the length of prostomiuni and palpi and consists of 22 to 

 30 joints. The lateral tentacles arise from the antero-lateral face of 

 the prostomiuni, are H times as long as the latter plus the palps and 

 consist of about 20 joints. The perjstomial cirri are quite similar in 

 form, the dorsal consisting of about 20 to 25 joints and equalhng the 

 median tentacle and the ventral consisting of 15 joints and equalling 



Syllis alternata — a, cephalic region from above, X 24; 6, parapodium X, X 32; 

 c, parapodium LI, X 32; d, a moderately long-bladed seta from the dorsal 

 part of parapodium X, X 600; e, a short-bladed seta from the ventral part 

 of the same, X 600; /, ends of two acicula, X 600. 



the lateral tentacle in length. The first dorsal cirrus is very long, 

 especially on the type, in which it has about 35 joints. 

 • The parapodia (6 and c) are rather stout and short, blunt and broadly 

 roimded distally. Ventral cirri are slender, unjointed, little tapered 

 and reach beyond the end of the neuropodium. The dorsal cirri, on 

 the other hand, are all very strongly moniliform and gently tapered 

 throughout. They are longest and nearly uniform on the anterior 15 

 segments, on which they nearly equal the diameter of the body. 

 Farther back they are alternately long and short, but never equal to 

 the anterior ones. From about 25 and 18 respectively in this region 

 the number of joints becomes reduced at the caudal end quite rapidly 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



until on the last but one remains. In the several specimens the 

 caudal cirri have from 16 to 25 joints. 



No notopodial aciculum is present, but there are usually 3 neuropodials 

 (/) with knobbed ends of various forms. The neuropodial setae usually 

 number about 10, disposed in 3 or 4 ranks. They are colorless, homo- 

 geneous, and rather milky vitreous in appearance. The rather stout 

 stems have 4 or 5 minute teeth on the convexity of the enlarged ends 

 (d and e) which are strongly oblique and possess a well-developed socket. 

 The appended blades of the dorsalmost setae (d) are quite long, some 

 of those of the anterior segments exceeding by ^ the one figured. The 

 ventral and posterior ones are shorter (e), and some of the shortest are 

 claw-like and little exceed the obliquity of the end of the shaft in 

 length. The end is strongly hooked, the accessory tooth well developeti , 

 and the marginal fringe very fine. 



In one specimen the protruded proboscis is a short and nearly 

 cylindrical cup bearing 10 prominent soft marginal papillse. In 

 another the gizzard lies in somites IX to XXI, in still another in XIX 

 to XXXVII. The cuticle of this species is noticeably thick. No trace 

 whatever of color remains. 



Station 4228 (type), vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern 



Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponges; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, 



Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4261, Dundas Bay, Ic}^ 



Strait, Alaska, 8-|-10 fathoms, gra}^ mud and rocks. 



Syllis (Chaetosyllis) quaternaria Moore. 



Syllis quaternaria Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 352-354 

 (text fig.). 



This epitokous form of the type for which Malmgren established his 

 genus Chcetosyllis is probably a true Syllis, though it cannot be corre- 

 lated with any known non-sexual form. The type and about a score 

 of other specimens are No. 1091 of the Academy's collection. They 

 were taken by A. E. ^Icllhenny at the "surface in a lead four miles 

 from shore" at Point Barrow, Alaska. 



Pionosyllis magnifica Moore. 



Plonosyllis magnifica Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 223-225, 

 PI. X, figs. 9-11. 



This large and handsome syllid is represented by two specimens, one 

 (the type) coming from Station 4219, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port 

 Townsend, Washington, 16-26 fathoms, green mud, sand and broken 

 shells; the other from Station 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales 

 Island, southeastern Alaska, 50-54 fathoms, green mud. 



Pionosyllis gigantea new species. 



Three fragments of the anterior end, the largest comprising but 40 




326 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



segments, represent a species much larger than P. magnifica, from 

 which it is distinguished by numerous characters. The type, consist- 

 ing of 40 segments, is 16 mm. long, 4 mm. in width of body and 7 mm. 

 between the tips of the setse. The prostomium is nearly quadrate 

 but slightly wider anteriorly, where the angles are rounded ; it is quite 

 deeply cut into two lobes by a median cleft posteriorly. The palpi are 

 broad, flattened, broadly rounded at the ends and slightly exceed the 

 prostomium in length ; at the base they are coalesced but diverge widely 

 and curve ventrad distally. The eyes of both pairs are reddish brown, 

 small and round, the anterior very little larger than the posterior and 

 directly in front of them or but little farther apart. The dorsal 

 cephalic appendages are imperfect on all of the specimens, but are 

 evidently slender, tapering, smooth and flagelliform. The middle 

 tentacle is apparently about S\ times and the lateral tentacles about 

 twice the length of the prostomium and palpi. The former arises 



PlonosylUs gigantea — a, parapodium XXV, without setse, X 24; b, parapoclium L, 

 without setae, X 24; c, a seta Avith blade of average length, from XXV, X 360. 



from the center of the prostomium, the latter from the anterior lateral 

 margins. The very short, slightly flaring proboscis bears 9 or 10 

 marginal papillse and apparently is unprovided with a strongly cuticular 

 region. 



The peristomium is extremely short above, where it is represented 

 chiefly by a fold of integument which conceals the posterior lobes of 

 the prostomium. At the sides it is better developed and ventrally is 

 crowded forward with the next two segments beneath the prostomium. 

 Its tentacular cirri are similar to the prostomial appendages, the dorsal 




1908.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



327 



about 5 times the length of the head and the ventral only about twice 

 that length. Remaining somites are very short anteriorly, but from 

 the twentieth onward are only 6 or 7 times as wide as long. Dorsally 

 they are strongly arched, ventrally flattened. The intersegmental 

 furrows are well marked, perhaps exaggerated by contraction of the 

 longitudinal muscles. 



All of the parapodia (a and h) are prominent and spring from the 

 lowest level of the sides of the body. Notopodia are entirely wanting, 

 even the acicula appearing to be absent. The neuropodia, on the other 

 hand, are stout, those at the anterior end being nearly truncated, 

 while the more posterior ones are bevelled from the dorsal or acicular 

 angle. All, however, possess slender and prominent presetal papillse 

 at this angle. Ventral cirri are remarkably large and swollen on the 

 anterior parapodia and end bluntly, but farther back they become 

 reduced in size and more slender and an annular constriction may 

 separate the pointed end as a separate piece. 



The most striking characteristic of the species is the great length 

 of the anterior dorsal cirri which form a tangled mass at the sides of 

 the body; they are so easily detached that few of them remain. 

 They arise from rather stout but short cirrophores (a) which are not 

 sharply distinguished from the sides of the somites. The styles are 

 smooth, tapering and very slender toward the end, like whiplashes. 

 On one of the smaller specimens, which has 29 segments measuring 8 

 mm. long, and a maximum body width of 3 mm., the dorsal cirrus of 

 somite IV measures no less than 14 mm. long. The cirri are alternately 

 longer and shorter, and after about the first ten those borne on the 

 even numbered somites are regularly 2 to 2^ times the body width, 

 while those on the odd numbered somites little exceed the body width. 

 Neuropodia are supported by 5 or 6 acicula which taper gradually 

 almost to the end, where they are slightly curved and end abruptly in 

 short conical points. The setae (c) project rather prominently in usu- 

 ally 5 subacicular ranks of 3 or 4 each. In any one parapodium they 

 are remarkably uniform in length of blade, etc., but the blades become 

 gradually shorter and wider and the shafts stouter from before back- 

 wards. The shaft (c) exhibits but a slight distal enlargement, but is 

 conspicuously and very unequally bifid, the larger and longer process 

 ending quite acutely and being provided along the front with 4 or 5 

 obscure teeth. The blades or appendages are rather long, strongly 

 hooked and bifid at the end, and especially noteworthy for the coarse- 

 ness of their marginal serrations. 



With the exception of the prostomium and the dorsal cirri these 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June. 



annelids are much pigmented both above and below with chocolate 

 brown. 



Stations 4199, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver 

 Island, B. C, 68-107 fathoms, soft green mud and volcanic sand; 4228 

 (type), vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 

 fathoms, gravel and sponges; 4300, off Shakan, Sumner Strait, south- 

 eastern Alaska, 185-218 fathoms, rocks and mud. 



Trypanosyllis gemmipara Johnson. 



Trypanosyllis gemmipara Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, 1901, 

 pp. 405', 406. 



This species is represented in the collection by two specimens. As 

 one of them permits the verification of Johnson's very interesting dis- 

 covery of collateral budding in this genus, it is unfortunate that the 

 preservation is altogether too imperfect to enable me to describe the 

 conditions fully. The buds are all quite young and occur in several 

 close tufts arranged in a transverse row about 35 segments anterior 

 to the anus, and all on the ventral surface, where the integuments are 

 split open at their place of origin. Collateral budding of a type 

 similar to that described by Johnson in T. geinmipara and T. nigens 

 has recently been found by Tzuka in a Japanese species, T. misakiensis, 

 also. 



Taken only at Station 4197, Gulf of Georgia, Halibut Bank, 31-90 

 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand. 



PHYLLODO OID^, 

 Phyllodoce citrina Malmgren. 



Phyllodoce citrina Malmgren, Ofvers. Kgl. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 1865, p. 95. 

 Two poorly preserved specimens which agree closely with the descrip- 

 tions of this species were taken at Afognak Island. The eyes are much 

 larger than shown in Malmgren's figures and both specimens are filled 

 with eggs. Marenzeller reports this species from Bering Sea. 



Stations 4271, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, lH-20 fathoms, hard 

 gray sand and rocks; 4272, the same, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud. 



Phyllodoce mucosa Oersted. 



Phyllodoce mucosa, Oersted, Ann. Dan. Consp., p. 31. 



A single much relaxed specimen of this species, 75 mm. long, includ- 

 ing the protruded proboscis, closely resembles the figures and descrip- 

 tions of this species, but possesses a greater number of setae than is 

 usually attributed to it. 



This example is No. 281, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., collected by 

 Dr. Benjamin Sharp at Icy Cape, Alaska. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



Eulalia longioornuta Moore. 



Eulalia longicornuta Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1906, pp. 222, 223, 

 PI. X, figs. 7, 8. 



Two specimens found among serpulid tubes taken at the Quarantine 

 Station dock near Port Townsend, Washington, on June 27, 1903. The 

 type is filled with eggs. In both the color has faded to a nearly uniform 

 olive with brown striations on the dorsal cirri. 



Eulalia quadriooulata Moore. 



Eulalia quadriooulata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 220, 221, 

 Pl.X, figs. 4-6. 



The two specimens, one of them a female filled with large eggs, 

 were taken at Quarantine Rock, Port Townsend, Washington, on June 

 27, 1903. 

 Notophyllum imbrioatum Moore. 



Notoplv/llum imbricatum Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906 pp '>\7~ 

 219, PL X, figs. 1-3. 



The type comes from Station 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 71-80 

 fathoms, gray mud; the cotype from Station 4269, Afognak Bay, 14-19 

 fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks. 



POLYNOIDJE. 



Hololepida magna Moore. 



Hololepida magna Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 541-544, 

 PI. XXV, figs. 24-29. 



A single example of this very large and remarkable species was taken 

 at Station 4247 (not 4198 as erroneously recorded in the original 

 description), Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, southeastern Alaska, 

 95-114 fathoms, green mud, fine sand and broken shells. 



It was taken from the interior of a large vase-shaped sponge, and 

 according to the label the color during life was "creamy white chang- 

 ing to pinkish along dorsal surface." Dr. Heath tells me that on the 

 living worm the elytra were very easily detached and not coherent as 

 after preservation; though of gelatinous consistency they were very 

 brittle. 



Halosydna pulchra (Johnson). 



Polynoe pulchra Johnson, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci. (3), I, (1897), p. 177. 

 Single specimens of this interesting species were taken at several 

 Alaskan localities. A few notopodial setse usually occur on most of the 

 parapodia. The specimens vary much in color, some being colorless, 

 others with the elytra more or less completely speckled with brown, and 

 one, found living commensally on a holothurian, is recorded on the 

 label as having been poppy red on the dorsal surface, lighter beneath. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



The cephalic appendages may possess a filamentous distal part. An 

 incomplete example filled with eggs, and taken at Station 4215, has 

 the median tentacle twice as long as the lateral and is referred doubt- 

 fully to this species. 



Stations 4219, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Wash- 

 ington, 16 fathoms, soft green mud, from starfish; 4222, same region, 

 39 fathoms, gray sand and broken shells, from holothurian (Siichopus 

 californica) ; 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, 

 soft green mud, young; 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 

 fathoms, sticky mud, one very beautiful specimen and one smaller and 

 colorless one, both from the ten-armed starfish (Solasler decemradiata). 



Halosydna lordi Baird. 



Halosydna lordi Baird, Journ. Linn. Soc. London, VIII, (1SG5), p. 190. 

 A single imperfect specimen without elytra represents this species. 

 In the same bottle is an arm of a starfish {Luidia columbice Gray) , upon 

 which it was presumably commensal. Nanaimo Bay, Vancouver 

 Island, B. C, 12 fathoms, on fish line. 



Halosydna insignis Bair.l. 



Halosydna insignis Baird, Journ. Linn. Soc. London, VIII, (1865), p. 188. 



Johnson in his paper on the Polychaeta of Puget Sound has already 

 noted the occurrence of this species as far north as Kadiak Island, 

 Johnson also describes in the Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci. for 1897 some most 

 interesting variations in relation to habitat. 



Of the several specimens in this collection scarcely two are alike in 

 color, and they also differ in the extent to which the back is covered by 

 the elytra, the tuberculation of the elytra and the shape of the end of 

 the dorsal cirri — whether abruptly terminating in a short filament or 

 not. None of the specimens is recorded as commensal. 



Union Bay, Vancouver Island, B. C. ; Port Townsend, Washington, 

 at Quarantine Dock; Stations 4209, Admiralty Inlet, Port Townsend, 

 Washington, 24-25 fathoms, rocks, coarse sand and shells; 4253, 

 Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 fathoms, rocks and broken shells. 



Lepidonotus robustus Moore. 



Lepidonotus robustus Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 544-546, 

 PI. XXXVI, figs. 32-35. 



The only known specimen of this noteworthy species was taken from 

 the shell of a hermit crab at Station 4291, Shelikof Strait, 48 to 65 

 fathoms, bottom of blue mud, sand and gravel. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



Lepidonotus caeloris Moore. 



Lepidonotus cdloris Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, pp. 412-414, 

 PI. XXIII, fig. 12. 



This species, originally described from specimens dredged off the 

 coast of Japan, proves to be one of the most abundant and generally 

 distributed species of Polychaeta throughout the region covered by these 

 explorations. It represents in the North Pacific the widely spread 

 L. squamatus of the Atlantic, but is quite distinct from that species. 

 The detached submarginal t\ift of cilia that is so conspicuous and 

 constant a feature on the elytra of the latter species is quite absent in 

 the former, in which, also, the marginal flask-shaped sense organs are 

 very much fewer and smaller. The outer surface of the elytra is less 

 hairy and beat's more numerous and rather smoother papillae. ]\Iuch 

 variation is evident in the size, number, arrangement and sculpturing 

 of the papilla? and in the color of the elytra, some specimens being 

 nearly black, others reddish brown, and still others orange or yellow. 

 The neuropodial setse are quite distinct from those of L. squamatus, 

 being more slender, less strongly hooked, more extensively ctenate and 

 in a greater number of rows. 



All of these differences are most apparent in the adults, especially 

 when individuals of equal size are compared. The young of L. cccloris 

 much more closely resemble the Atlantic species, especially in the 

 greater hairiness of the elytra, and it seems not improbable that the 

 small specimens of L. squamatus recorded by Johnson from Puget Soimd 

 and California and by Marenzeller from Japan may be of this species. 

 It is also not improbable that intermediate forms may be found to con- 

 nect the two in the Arctic regions, in which case L. cantoris would 

 become a well-marked subspecies. 



Represented in the collections by a greater number of individuals 

 than any other species, Lepidonotus caloris was found at many points 

 between Vancouver and Kadiak Islands, at depths ranging from 18 to 

 313 fathoms and on most kinds of bottom, though naturally most often 

 on mud. It was most abundant on muddy bottoms in the Gulf of 

 Georgia, on a gravelly bottom with sponges at Station 4228, near 

 Naha Bay in the Behm Canal, and on a bottom of rock and broken 

 shells at Station 4253 in Stephens Passage, Alaska. 



The stations at which Lepidonotus c(eloris was taken are 4192, 4193, 

 4197, 4198, 4227, 4228, 4234, 4235, 4239, 4245, 4253, 4258 and 4274. 



Polynoie tuta Grube. 



Polynoe tuta Grube, Arch. f. Naturges., XXI, 18.55, Bd. I, p. 82. 



Harmothoe tuta Johnson, Proc. Ros. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX (1901), pp. 394, 6. 



Of the three examples of this species in the collection, the one from 




332 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Fort Rupert agrees exactly with the description given by Johnson ; the 

 other two have the cephahc appendages and the dorsal cirri longer and 

 more slender, the eyes farther back, and the neuropodial setse more 

 slender. All of them exhibit marked asymmetry in the arrangement 

 of the elytra. 



Fort Rupert, shore of Union Bay, Vancouver Island, B. C, and Sta- 

 tions 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 18-23 fathoms, green 

 naud and fine sand; 4197, same locality, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green 

 mud and fine sand. 



Polynoe fragilis (Baird) Johnson. 



Lepidonotus fragilis Baird, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lon., 1863, p. 108. 



Polynoe fragilis, Johnson, Proc. Cal. Acad., Vol. I, Zoology, pp. 179-181. 



Three complete examples from near Port Townsend alone represent 

 this most interesting commensalistic species. The margins of the 

 elytra are frequently more complexly folded than is indicated by 

 Johnson. Dr. Heath's label states that the color in life is ''entire 

 surface of body light yellow, the elytra allowing the color of the body, 

 to show through." It is stated that the specimens Avere taken from 

 Asterias sp. The resemblance of these worms to the arms of the star- 

 fish is most remarkable and is a subject well worth careful and detailed 

 study by someone on the ground. 



Station 4222, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Washing- 

 ton, 39 fathoms, gray sand and broken shells. 



Hermadion trunoata Moore. 



Harmathoe fruncata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, pp. 272-274, 

 PL XIV, figs. 21-28. 



This species was originally described from the anterior end of a 

 specimen in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, at that time supposed to have been collected in Green- 

 land, but now believed to have been taken by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at 

 Icy Cape, Alaska. It is well represented in this collection from the 

 more southern stations. The completeness of some of the examples 

 permits the addition of the following notes to the original description. 

 A length of 80 mm. is attained, the posterior region of the body being 

 slender and tapering. There are 63 segments with 15 pairs of elytra, 

 borne on segments II, IV, V, VII, IX, XI, XIII, XV, XVII, XIX, 

 XXI, XXIII, XXVI, XXIX and XXXII, and leaving the posterior 

 part of the body unprotected except by the bristling setse. The 

 cephalic peaks are rudimentary, being coalesced with the bases of the 

 lateral tentacles, and the anterior eyes are farther forward than in the 

 type. The style of the median tentacle is slender, about twice the 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



length of the prostomium and has a scarcely perceptible subterminal 

 enlargement. The lateral tentacles are very short, the short, conical 

 styles with their terminal filaments scarcely exceeding the ceratophores. 

 The extended palpi taper regularly to the end, are slender and 7-8 times 

 the prostomial length. Anterior elytra are circular, the others broadly 

 elliptical, with weak attachment laterad of the center. Their texture 

 is soft and flexible, the surface smooth and punctate and entirely 

 lacking cilia or papillae of any sort, but with the margin slightly thick- 

 ened anrl upturned. The inner half is brown, the outer wliite in agree- 

 ment with the color of the body. Dorsal cirri are rather stout with 

 prominent cirrophores and the styles reach beyond the tips of the 

 parapodia. They taper regularly to a subterminal enlargement, beyond 

 which is a short filament. Posterior cirri are longer and more slender 

 and the anal cirri are stouter and very long, equalling the last 9 somites. 

 Usually but one anal cirrus is fully developed. A broad rich brown 

 stripe marks the dorsum, being more or less broken in the middle of the 

 body and spreading over the entire back posteriorly where a median 

 white line sometimes divides it. Dorsal cephalic appendages and 

 dorsal cirri chiefly brown with subterminal and terminal white rings 

 All other parts, including entire venter, white. 



Stations 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 18-23 fathoms, 

 green mud and fine sand; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky 

 green mud and fuie sand; 4199, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort 

 Rupert, Vancouver Island, B. C, 68-107 fathoms, sticky green mud 

 and volcanic sand ; 4208, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, 

 Washington, 83-99 fathoms, rocky; 4216, same region, 79-101 fathoms, 

 rocky ; 4227, \'icinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, Alaska, 62-65 fathoms, 

 dark green mud and fine sand. 



Eunoe depresaa Moore. 



Eunoe depressa Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1905, pp. 536-538, Pis. 

 XXXIV, figs. 17, 18; XXXV, figs. 19, 20. 



Besides a fragment labelled Union Bay, B. C, 6-22-'03, this species 

 is represented by specimens from Stations 4261 (type), Dundas Bay, 

 Icy Strait, 8^10 fathoms, green mud and rocks; 4270, Afognak Bay, 

 Afognak Island, Alaska, 14-1 9 fathoms, hard gray sand and rock. The 

 latter is labelled ''Hermit crab, messmate," and many of the papillae 

 on the elytra bear 2 or 3 spines. 



I also refer provisionally to this species under the name of var. 

 mammillata a specimen which may represent a distinct but related 

 species. It measures 20 mm. long and has a form similar to but some- 

 what less broad and depressed than typical depressa. The palpi are 

 22 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



barely twice the length of the prostoniium, but the other cephalic 

 appendages are longer and much more slender than in the typical 

 form. The median tentacle is about 3J times and the lateral tentacles 

 nearly If times the length of the prostomiimi. The cirrophores of 

 the dorsal cirri reach to the end of the notopodia and the slender styles 

 possess long fihform tips which reach to the tips of the longest seta\ 

 The elytra are thimier and more membranous and their shape more 

 ovate-reniform. They also have larger, firmer, and more mammilif orm 

 papillffi. But the chief distinction is a strong fringe of cilia along the 

 outer margin of each of the elytra. The general color is reddish 

 brown and the elytra bluish pearl with the larger papillae orange brown. 

 The label states that this specimen was taken from the branchial 

 chamber of an 11-pound crab. Station 4276, Alitak Bay, Kadiak 

 Island, Alaska, 22-25 fathoms, fine sand and mud. 



Harmothoe imbricata (Linn.) Malmgren. 



Harmothoe imbricata, Mcintosh, Monograph of British AnneUds, Part II, 1900, 

 pp. 314-327. 



All of the specimens of this ubiquitous species, which is already well 

 known from the North Pacific, are of small size, the largest being 30 

 mm. long and most of them much smaller. They present the usual 

 color varieties seen in Atlantic Coast specimens, some being more or less 

 strongly mottled, others having a median light or dark brown band of 

 greater or less breadth. The marginal papillae on the elytra may be 

 numerous or nearly absent. The two specimens from Kilisut Harbor 

 have the smooth tips of the notopodial setae longer than usual. 



Kilisut Harbor, near Port Townsend, Washington; and Stations 4269, 

 Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, Alaska, 14^19 fathoms, hard gray sand 

 and rocks; 4271, same region, 11^-20 fathoms, hard gray sand and 

 rocks ; 4275, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, Alaska, 35-36 fathoms, 

 green mud and fuie sand ; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 74-80 

 fathoms, gray mud. 



Harmothoe hirsuta Johnson. 



Harmothoe hirsuta Johnson, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., (3), I (Zoology), pp, 182, 

 183. 



Three examples referred to this species indicate that it is subject to 

 considerable variation. The examination of an extensive series of the 

 Harmothoes from this region will be necessary to estabhsh the exact 

 status of these variants. 



Stations 4205, Admiralty Inlet, Port Townsend, Alaska, 15-26 

 fathoms, rocks and shells, a single specimen which agrees with John- 

 son's description and figures accurately except that the elytra, although 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



bearing large papillse, lack distinct marginal areas; 4260, Dimdas Bay, 

 Icy Strait, 8^21 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks, one similar to the 

 last but more distinctly colored; 4259, same region, 21-78 fathoms, 

 gray sand, broken shells and rocks, a small example with well-marked 

 marginal areas on the elytra but few large papillse and with the inter- 

 sections of the ridges between the areas sometimes produced into large, 

 coarse cilia. 



Lagisca multisetosa Moore. 



Lagiscn ^nultlsetosa Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1902, pp. 267-269. 

 PI. XIV, figs. 29-36. 



This is another species which was originally incorrectly attributed to 

 Greenland, the type locality being almost certainly Icy Cape, Alaska. 

 Like Hermadioa truncata it is rather plentiful in the collections from 

 the Gulf of Georgia to Behm Canal, being represented, mostly by frag- 

 mentary specimens, in the collections from the following : 



Stations 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 18-23 fathoms, 

 green mud and fine sand; 4194, same region, 111-170 fathoms, soft 

 green nuid; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and 

 fine sand; 4199, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver 

 Island, B. C, G8-107 fathoms, soft green mud and volcanic sand; 4223, 

 Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathonx^;, soft green mud ; 

 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 

 fathoms, gravel and sponges. 



The species appears to be especially common at the last enumerated 

 station and several fragments taken here depart quite widely from the 

 typical form in the character of the elytra. These are designated as 

 variety papillata, characterized as follows : The elytra bear more num- 

 erous, larger and differently shaped soft papillae and very much fewer 

 and smaller hard conical papillae; and instead of the numerous long 

 cilia on the exposed surface and near the outer margin of the elytra of 

 the typical form, these bear only a few very much shorter cilia with 

 thickened ends. 



Lagisca rarispina (Sars) Malmgren. 



Laqisca rarispina (Sars) Malmgren, Of vers. Kgl. Vet.-Akad. Forh 1S65 p 

 65. ^ » .F- 



Occurring quite plentifully in the collections from the more northerly 

 points in the Alaskan Gulf, where it apparently largely replaces L. 

 multisetosa, this species is represented by two varieties which are, 

 however, connected by intermediates and apparently occur indis- 

 criminately together at the same stations. 



The difference is in the presence or absence of the soft marginal 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



papillae on the elytra. On some examples these are very numerous, 

 especially on anterior elytra, and have exactly the elongated form and 

 the arrangement exhibited by typical representatives of the species 

 from Greenland and other North Atlantic localities. Others have 

 perfectly smooth elytra, altogether lacking these appendages. Be- 

 tween these two extreme categories, into which most of the specimens 

 fall, are some individuals intermediate in either the number or size of the 

 appendages or in both. Some have the papilhB very short and present 

 on many elytra and others very few papillae of normal or reduced size. 

 One bears a single papillse on one elytron and another half a dozen 

 papillae distributed among three elytra. 



Stations 4193, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and 

 fine sand; 4198, Hahbut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 157-230 fathoms, 

 soft green mud; 4219, Admiralty Inlet, Port Townsend, Washington. 

 16-26 fathoms, green mud, sand, broken shells; 4225, Boca de Quadra, 

 southeastern Alaska, 149-181 fathoms, dark green mud — a single 

 example from each of these stations; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm 

 Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 

 131-188 fathoms, rocks and broken shells; 4258, vicinity of Funter 

 Bay, Lynn Canal, 300-313 fathoms, mud — plentiful at the last two 

 stations; 4263, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, 6J-9 fathoms, coarse sand and 

 rocks; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud. 



Antinoe maorolepida Moore. 



Antinoe macrohpida Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 538-541, 

 PL XXXV, figs. 21-23. 



Antinoe macrolepida is plentiful at the more northerly stations, but 

 occurs as far south as the Gulf of Georgia. It is represented in the 

 collections from the following stations: 4192, off Nanaimo, Vancouver 

 Island, B. C, 89-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4193, 

 Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and 

 fine sand; 4194, same region, 111-170 fathoms, soft green mud; 4230, 

 vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 108-240 

 fathoms, rocky; 4236, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 147-205 

 fathoms, rocks and coarse sand; 4237, same region, 194-198 fathoms, 

 green mud; 4264 (type and several other specimens), off Freshwater 

 Bay, Chatham Strait, 282-293 fathoms, green mud; 4299, off Shakan, 

 Sumner Strait, southeastern Alaska, 153-218 fathoms, sand and rocks. 



Gattyana amondseni (Malmgren). 



Nychia amondseni Malmgren, Annulata Polj'chEeta, etc., 1867, pp. 5 and 6. 

 Three specimens taken at northern stations agree very closely with 

 Malmgren's description and figures of this species. The neuropodial 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



setae are rather more slender and the bifid papillae on the elytra rather 

 more deeply cleft. 



Stations 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 fathoms, rocks and 

 broken shells; 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 fathoms, 

 sticky mud; 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-36 fatlioms, green 

 mud and fine sand. 

 Gattyana ciliata Moore. 



Gattyana ciliata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, pp. 263-266, Tl. 

 XIII, figs. 14-19. 



The type (No. 28, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.) was taken at Icy Cape, 

 and a single example in this collection comes from Station 4289, 

 Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud. 



Gattyana cirrosa (Pallas) Mclnto*. 



Gattyana cirrosa Mcintosh, Monograph of British Annelids, Part II, (1900), 

 pp. 285-291. 

 The only example taken is from Station 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak 

 Island, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud, 



Gattyana senta Moore. 



Gafti/ana senta Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, pp. 259-263, PI. 

 XIII, figs. 1-13. 



This species, the type of which came from Icy Cape and is in the 

 collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, appears to be quite 

 plentiful on the muddy bottoms of the Gulf of Georgia and equally so 

 on a gravelly bottom at Station 4228 in Behm Canal. Most of the 

 examples have lost most of the elytra and are otherwise mutilated, but 

 one specimen permits the description of the posterior elytra which were 

 lacking on the type. They are nearly circular in outline and of smaller 

 size and softer texture than the anterior elytra, but the most striking 

 difference is in the very great length of the terminal branches of the 

 dendritic spines of the posterior margin, the number of forkings of 

 which is, however, less than on anterior scales. 



Stations 4191, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver Island, B. C, 

 54-89 fathoms, fine dark sand, mud and rocks; 4193, Halibut Bank, 

 Gulf of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand ; 4197, same 

 locality, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand ; 4198, same 

 locality, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud; 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay, 

 Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge, 



Melaenis loveni Malmgren. 



Melcenis Loveni Malmgren, Ofvers. Kong. Vet.-.\kad. Forh., 1S65, pp. 78, 79, 

 Three examples collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at Icy Cape, 

 Alaska are in the collection of the Philadelphia Academy, No. 279, 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



SIGALEONIDiB. 



Pholoe minuta (Fabricius) Oersted. 



Pholoe minuta (Fabricius), Mcintosh, Monograph of British AnneHds, Part 

 II, (1900), pp. 437-442. 



A perfect example nearly an inch in length was taken at Station 4272, 

 at Afognak Ba}^, Afognak Island, Alaska, in 12-17 fathoms, on a bottom 

 of sticky mud; and a few fragments of a very small individiual prob- 

 ably of this species from a bottle containing a Halosydna insignis from 

 Port Townsend, Washington. 



Peisidice aspera Johnson. 



Peisidice aspera Johnson, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., (3), (Zool.), Vol. I, pp. 184, 185. 



Single examples of this curious little polychffite occur at three rather 

 widely separated stations. The elytra are very stiff and rigid, appar- 

 ently due to a hard brownish secretion which is deposited in layers, thus 

 giving the appearance of concentric lines of gro\\i:h. Sand grains adhere 

 to and become imbedded in this substance, especially along the ridge of 

 the scale. This same secretion renders the body brittle, but no sand 

 grains are borne on this region of these specimens. The hairs of the 

 marginal fringes are very unequal, the longest being as much as ^ 

 of the long diameter of the scale. Many of the elytra are marked with 

 dark brown central spots. 



Stations 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern 

 Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, 

 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4253, Stephens Passage, 131-188 fathoms, 

 rock and broken shells. 



APHRODITID^. 

 Aphrodita japonica Marenzeller. 



Aphrodita japonica Marenzeller, Denks. K. Akad. Wissensch., Wien, XLI, 

 (1879),pp. Ill, 112. 



From the Gulf of Georgia to the head of Behm Canal this species is 

 common and especially so wherever muddy bottoms occur. These 

 specimens differ in no respect from those taken in the Albatross dredg- 

 ings off the coast of Japan in 1900. The neuropodial setae are unusually 

 prominent and slender and when young their tips are incased in a 

 densely hairy sheath, which later wears away, leaving the point 

 smooth. The notopodial setae are completely imbedded in the felt and 

 are seldom visible. They are slender, soft, curved, pale brown, rough- 

 ened toward the end and have the tip hooked. Generally the color is 

 very dark — almost black — and the felt is dull, probably the result of 

 staining by some constituent of the mud in which they live. The palpi 

 are white. The specimens vary in length from 14 to 80 mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Stations 4194, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 111-170 

 fathoms, soft green mud; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky- 

 green mud and fine sand; 4198, same region, 157-230 fathoms, soft 

 green mud; 4224, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 156-166 

 fathoms, dark green mud; 4225, same region, 149-181 fathoms, dark 

 green mud; 4230, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern 

 Alaska, 108-240 fathoms, rocky; 4231, same region, 82-113 fathoms, 

 green mud and fragments of slate; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm 

 Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4236, same region, 147-205 

 fathoms, rock and coarse sand; 4237, same region, 192-198 fathoms, 

 green mud; 4238, same region, 229-231 fathoms, mud and rocks. 



Aphrodita negligens Moore. 



Aphrodita negligens Moore, Proc. Acad, Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 526-529, 

 PI. XXXIV, figs. 1, 2; XXXV, fig. 31. 



A single large example 60 mm, long, agreeing exactly with the type, 

 was taken at Station 4205, off Port Townsend, Washington, in 15-26 

 fathoms, on a bottom of rock and shells. The body cavity is filled 

 with egg-strings. 



Aphrodita parva Moore. 



Aphrodita parva Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 529-532, PI. 

 XXXIV, figs. 3-7, 



This small and very distinct species is known only from two speci- 

 mens taken at Station 4194, in the Gulf of Georgia, in 111 to 170 

 fathoms, on a bottom of soft green mud. 



EUPHROSYNID^. 

 Euphrosyne bicirrata Moore. 



Euphrosyne bicirrata Moore, Proc, Acad, Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1905, pp. 532-534, 

 PL XXXIV, figs. 8-12. 



This species, which belongs to the group including E. horealis 

 Oersted and E. longisetosa Horst, was taken from the Gulf of Georgia 

 to Behm Canal, in depths ranging from 18 to 188 fathoms. It occurs 

 in the collections from the following stations: 4193 (type), Halibut 

 Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fme sand; 

 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand; 

 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 

 fathoms, gravel and sponge; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 

 fathoms, rock and broken shells. 



Euphrosyne hortensis Moore. 



Euphrosyne hortensis Moore, Proc, Acad, Nat, Sci. Pliila., 1905, pp. 534-536, 

 PI, XXXIV, figs. 13-16, 



Much less common than the last, this species was taken at Stations 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie^ 



4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud; and 

 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine 

 sand. The latter is the type locality. 



Euphrosyne arctica Johnson. 



Euphrosyne arctica Johnson, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., (3), Zoology, Vol. I, p. 159. 



A small individual 10 mm. long is believed to represent this species, 

 the original description of which was based upon a probably imperfect 

 and much contracted specimen. There are, however, some points of 

 difference between the two specimens, as the following brief descrip- 

 tion indicates. 



The form is strongly depressed, about equally rounded anteriorly and 

 posteriorly, the somites munbering 21, strongly marked and well 

 developed throughout. The subanal lobes or cirri are large, thick and 

 fleshy. The dorsal smooth field is about \ the entire width and not 

 subdivided into areas. A black spot or group of spots occurs on the 

 posterior part of each segment behind the second gill. 



The caruncle is short and broad , reaching from the anterior margin of 

 II to the posterior margin of IV, and consists entirely of a rather high, 

 thick crest, little free behind. The median tentacle equals the caruncle 

 in length and the stout basal article, which furnishes | of its length, 

 nearly equals the caruncle in thickness. The terminal piece is fila- 

 mentous. The dorsal eyes are very large, elongated and black. The 

 ventral eyes are coalesced and the ventral paired tentacles minute. 



The dorsal cirri are very long, much exceeding the length of the 

 caruncle, slender and tapered. The median cirrus arises between the 

 second and third gills and, like the ventral cirrus, is stouter than tlie 

 dorsal cirrus and equally long. Five pairs of gills occur on the middle 

 region. They are arbusculate and spreading, with some 30 or more 

 slender, lanceolate terminal twigs formed by as many as 5 or 6 irregular 

 dichotomous divisions. The setae agree exactly with Johnson's figures. 



Station 4234, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, Alaska, 45 fathoms,, 

 gray mud and rocks. 



ALCIOPID^. 

 Callizona angelini (Kinberg) Apstein. 



Callizona Angelini (Ivinberg) Apstein, Die Alciopiden und Tomopteriden der 

 Plankton Expedition, luel, 1900, pp. 18, 19. 



The addition of this species to the list of Alaskan poly chutes becomes 

 possible through the study of the contents of salmon stomachs sub- 

 mitted by Dr. H. M. Smith. The salmon were taken at Yes Bay, 

 Alaska, on July 27 and 28, 1905, and contained a large number of 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



remains. Many of the worms were already completely disintegrated^ 

 but the anterior ends of some were sufficiently intact to remove any 

 reasonable doubt of the correctness of this identification. The only 

 respect in which they differ from the published descriptions is in the 

 presence of as many as 4 stout setae in the first parapodium (somite 

 IV). A noteworthy characteristic of the species is the considerable 

 length of the cirriform appendage of the parapodia. 



Anteriorly the dorsum is a diluted chocolate brown, the surface of 

 the eye cups, the prostomium and a transverse band across each 

 segment being still darker. A brown spot at the base of each dorsal 

 cirrus appears to continue for the entire length of the body. The 

 large numbers in which these worms occur in the salmon stomachs and 

 the evidences that they were filled with sperm and ova indicates that 

 at sexual maturity they must swim in great shoals at the surface. 



Originally described by Kinberg from the China Sea, this species has 

 since been twice taken in the Atlantic Ocean, but until now has not 

 been reported from the Pacific. 



HESIONID^. 



Podarke pugettensis Johnson. 



Podarke -pugettensis Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, 1901, pp. 

 397, 398. 

 This species was taken only in the region of the type locality and 

 probably does not extend much farther northward. 



Nanaimo Bay, Vancouver Island, B. C, taken from a starfish (Tuidia) 

 brought up on a fish line; Quarantine Rock, near Port Townsend, 

 Washington; Station 4218, Admiralty Inlet, near Port Townsend, 

 Washington, 16 fathoms, soft green mud, on starfish {Tuidia). 



NEPHTHYDID^. 

 Nephthys coeca (Fabricius) Oersted. 



Nephthys coeca, Ehlers, Die Borstenwiirmer, 1868, pp. 588-617. 

 The presence of this circumpolar species throughout a great extent 

 of both sides of the North Pacific is already well known. Typical 

 examples occur in the collections from the following stations : 4230, 

 vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 108-240 

 fathoms, rocky; 4236, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 147-205 

 fathoms, rocks and coarse sand; 4240, junction of Clarence Strait and 

 Behm Canal, 248-256 fathoms, coral. 



Nephthys ciliata (Muller) Rathke. 



Nephthys ciliata, Malmgren, Ofvers. Kgl. Vet.-Alvad. Forh., 1865, p. 104. 

 Whether or not Wiren was correct in considering this and the pre- 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



ceding to be variants of the same species, the considerable amount of 

 material which I have examined exhibits no evidence of intergrada- 

 tion and the two forms are therefore listed separately. It is noteworthy 

 that they were taken on bottoms of quite different character. 



Stations 4194, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 111-170 fathoms, 

 soft green mud ; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud 

 and fine sand ; 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, southeastern 

 Alaska, 50-54 fathoms, green mud; 4258, vicinity of Funter Bay, 

 Lynn Canal, 300-313 fathoms, mud; 4286, Chinak Bay, Alaska, 57-63 

 fathoms, green mud and rock. 



Nephthys malmgreni Theel. 



Nephthys longisetosa Malmgren, Kgl. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 1865, p. 106; non 



Oersted. 

 Nephthys malmgreni Theel, Kgl. Sv. Vet. Akad. Handl., 1879, No. 3, p. 26. 



Although recorded at various points in the North Atlantic and Arctic 

 Oceans this species has not previously been taken in the Pacific. It 

 occurs in the collections from the vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 

 only, at Stations 4236, 147-205 fathoms, rock and coarse sand, and 

 4238, 229-231 fathoms, rocks and mud. 



Nephthys assimilis Malmgren. 



Nephthys assimilis Malmgren, Kgl. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 1865, p. 105. 

 No representatives of N. assimilis occur among the material dredged 

 by the Albatross, but the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia contains several examples which agree exactly with the 

 descriptions given by Malmgren and Theel, and which were collected 

 by Dr. Benjamin Sharp in 5 fathoms at Icy Cape, Alaska. 



NEREIDS. 



Nereis pelagica Linnaeus. 



Nereis pelagica Linn.'Bus, Sys. Nat., Ed. X, p. 654. 



Although quite common and represented from nearly the entire 

 region covered by these collections, the individuals are of smaller size 

 than occur on the Atlantic side of the continent. 



Stations 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 18-23 fathoms, 

 green mud and fine sand ; 4209, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Town- 

 send, Washington; 4247, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, south- 

 eastern Alaska, 89-114 fathoms, green mud, fine sand and broken 

 shells; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 fathoms, rocks and 

 broken shells; 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-41 fathoms, green 

 mud and fine sand. At Port jMcArthur, on August 23, two small 

 heteronereids were taken at the surface. Also collection of Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., several collected at Unalaska by Dr. Sharp. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



Nereis procera Ehlers. 



Nereis procera Ehlers, Die Borstenwiirmer, 1868, p. 557. 

 This little known species is represented by a single incomplete 

 specimen taken at the type locality in the Gulf of Georgia. Station 

 4193, Halibut Bank, Guif of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and 

 fine sand. 



Nereis paucidentata Moore. 



Nereis paucidentata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, pp. 430, 431, 

 PI. XXIV, figs. 28-30. 



Originally described from specimens dredged in Bering Sea, the 

 present collections show that this species is rather widely distributed 

 along the northern portions of the east side of the Pacific also. At the 

 same time they permit of the verification of the characters originally 

 attributed to the species. Several specimens with the probosces pro- 

 truded exliibit paragnaths exactly like those of the type, except that 

 groups III and IV vary somewhat, being provided with 3 to 5 denticles 

 arranged in various patterns. One had 5 teeth arranged in a perfect 

 quincunx. The basal ring of one specimen bears 4 cones at VII, 



Stations 4198, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 157-230 fathoms, 

 soft green mud ; 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern 

 Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge; 4239, junction of Clarence 

 Strait and Behm Canal, 206-248 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks, one 

 specimen from this station is a large female bursting with eggs, 80 mm. 

 long and having 120 segments; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131- 

 188 fathoms, rocks and broken shells; 4300, off Shakan, Sumner Strait, 

 southeastern Alaska, 185-218 fathoms, rock and mud. 



Nereis cyclurus Harrington. 



Nereis cyclurus Harrington, Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., XVI, 1897, p. 214. 



This remarkable and interesting species should probably be separated 

 generically from the above. In only one case is it stated that the 

 specimens were taken from a hermit crab (E. wpagurus armatus), in the 

 shell of which this annelid usually lives as a commensal. The finding 

 of a male heteronereis is of interest, especially as it was taken on the 

 shell of a hermit crab. After an elaborate study of this species Plar- 

 rington records his failure to find a male, and states his belief that males 

 are strictly pelagic in habit. 



Stations 4201, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver 

 Island, B. C, 138-145 fathoms, soft green mud, sand and broken shells, 

 a small specimen, " general color bright pink, in delicate tube composed 

 of mucus attached to sponge"; 4218, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port 

 Townsend, Washington, 16 fathoms, soft green mud, 1 ordinary form 




344 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



and 1 heteronereis (male) from shell of hermit crab; 4220, same region 

 16-31 fathoms, green mud, sand and broken shells. 



Nereis (Alitta) vexillosa Grube. 



Nereis vexillosa Grube in Middendorff, Reise in Siberiens, etc., II, 18-51, p. 4. 

 Nereis vexillosa, Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, p. 399. 



On the Pacific this species represents the Nereis limbata, so abundant 

 along much of the Atlantic coast of North America. It, however, 

 reaches a larger size. As but little shore collecting was done it is not 

 represented in the collection from many points. 



Taylor Bay, Gabriola Island, Gulf of Georgia; Quarantine Rock, 

 Port Townsend, and the beach near Shakan, Sumner Strait, south- 

 eastern Alaska; collection Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Admiralty Inlet, 

 Puget Sound, Washington, by George Dawson. 



Nereis (Alitta) virens Sars. 



Nereis virens, Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, p. 398. 



I have not given very close attention to the specific likeness or dis- 

 tinction of the Atlantic N. virens and the Pacific A", hrandti, but so far 

 as comparisons have been made they appear to confirm Johnson's view 

 that the two are identical. Being chiefly a shore lover like the last it is 

 not well represented in this collection. 



Taylor Bay, Gabriola Island, B. C., 11 specimens varying from 9 to 

 18 inches long. Many are in regeneration posteriorly and the number 

 of segments appear to exceed the average attained by Atlantic speci- 

 mens. Union Baj'', Alaska, a splended example unfortunately incom- 

 plete, but which in life must have exceeded 2 feet in length. The ten- 

 tacular cirri are very short and thick. Also one in the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences, collected by George Dawson at Admiralty Inlet, 

 Washington. 



Platynereis agassizi (Ehlers). 



Nereis agassizi Ehlers, Die Borstenwurmer, 1868, p. 542. 



It seems probable that the Japanese specimens referred to N 

 dumerilii by Marenzeller belong to this closely related but perfectly 

 distinct species. A small heferonereid resembling that of the Atlantic 

 P. megalo-ps was taken at Quarantine Rock, near Port Townsend, on 

 June 27. 



Kilisut Harbor and Quarantine Rock, near Port Townsend, Wash- 

 ington. Stations 4219. Admiralty Inlet, near Port Townsend, Wash- 

 ington, 16-26 fathoms, green mud, sand and broken shells; 4223, Boca 

 de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



EUNICID^. 

 Eunice kobiensis Mcintosh. 



Eunice kobiensis Mcintosh, Challenger Reports, ZooL, Vol. XII, pp. 278-280. 



Several specimens of Eunice exhibiting considerable variation inter 

 se, but presenting a mean very close to this species originally taken off 

 the coast of Japan, were collected in Alaskan waters. The largest 

 individual is 90 mm. long and 5 mm. wide, being therefore larger than 

 those described by Mcintosh. The maximum raunber of branchial 

 pinnae exhibited by different specimens varies from 5 to 8 according to 

 the size, and the gills begin on V or VI and end at from XLV to LVIII. 

 The characters of the setae and acicula are very constant and differ in 

 no respect from those assigned to Eunice kobiensis. On the other 

 hand the ja^vs vary considerably and the large paired plates may 

 exhibit a number of teeth either greater or less than is shown in 

 Mcintosh's figure. The cephalic appendages generally average shorter 

 and the peristomium longer than on the Japanese specimens, and the 

 ventral cirri are larger than is usual in this genus. 



Stations 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 

 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 

 fathoms, rock and broken shells; 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 

 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud; 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-41 

 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 

 74-80 fathoms, gray mud. The last recorded specimen is stated to 

 have come from a "tube 11 inches long, formed of small stones and 

 attached to a slab of slate," 



ONUPHIDiE. 

 Nothria iridescens Johnson. 



Nothria iridescens Johnson, Proc, Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, p. 408. 

 This species was originally described by Johnson from a single 

 specimen lacking the caudal end which was dredged by Prof. Herd- 

 man at Victoria, B. C, It proves to be abundant on muddy bottoms 

 ih the Gulf of Georgia and much less common northward to Prince of 

 Wales Island, southeastern Alaska, The presence of a posterior end 

 permits the completion of Johnson's description. After gradual 

 reduction in length the branchiae are totally wanting from the last 30 

 somites. The pygidium is provided with a thickened circumanal welt, 

 from the ventral side of which arise 4 cirri in a close tuft. The 2 

 median are about ^ longer than the lateral pair and correspondingly 

 stouter. Besides hooded crochets (of which Johnson's figure shows 

 one foreshortened) and capillary setae, posterior segments contain a 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



tuft of the usual expanded pectinate setse. All three kinds continue 

 to the last setigerous segment. 



A large number of tubes differ from the one described by Johnson. 

 They are 5 to 6 inches long and about 4 mm. in diameter, composed of a 

 tough, membranous, mucoid lining covered with a thick coating of 

 silt, often arranged in two distinct layers of quite different composition. 



Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver Island, B. C., 

 89-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of 

 Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4194, same region, 

 111-170 fathoms, soft green mud, a great many tubes; 4197, same 

 region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand; 4198, same 

 region, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud; 4223, Boca de Quadra, 

 southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud; 4244, Kasaan 

 Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 50-54 fathoms, green mud; 42 6, same 

 region, 101-123 fathoms, gray-green nuid, coarse sand and shells. 



Nothria geophiliformis Moore. 



Nothria geophiUjormis Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, pp. 445- 

 448. 



A single example from Station 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales 

 Island, 50-54 fathoms, green mud. 



LUMBRINERID^. 



Lumbrineris heteropoda Marenzeller. 



Lunibriconereis heteropoda Marenzeller, Denks. Kaiserl. Akad. Wissensch. 

 Wien, 1879, Abth. 2, pp. 138, 139. 



A species of Lumbrineris widely and generally distributed over the 

 field covered by these explorations is assigned with much hesitation as 

 above. The variability of the jaws and the form of the prostomium 

 in species of this genus, taken with the fact that the exact region from 

 which the parapodia described or figured for many species have been 

 selected is often not indicated, renders identification of representatives 

 of this genus very difficult. The smaller examples resemble L. hetero- 

 poda in every respect, but the larger ones have the prostomium shorter 

 and more broadly rounded; the jaws vary in respect to the form and 

 number of teeth on the individual plates and probably in a greater 

 divergence of the lobes of the posterior parapodia. The j^resence of a 

 tuft of very long slender winged seta? in the lower part of the supra- 

 acicular tuft of the middle parapodia of some specimens is also a note- 

 worthy character which may indicate specific separation from L. 

 heteropoda. One fine example from Station 4251 is 380 mm. long, 7 

 mm. wide, and has 355 segments. It is filled with nearly mature eggs. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



Stations 4201, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver 

 Island, B. C, 138-145 fathoms, soft green mud, sand and broken shells, 

 4227, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 62-65 

 fathoms, dark green mud and fine sand; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, 

 Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4236, same region, 147-205 

 fathoms, rocks and coaree sand; 4237, same region, 192-198 fathoms, 

 green mud; 4240, junction of Clarence Strait and Behm Canal, 248-256 

 fathoms, coral ; 4241, same region, 245-238 fathoms, green nmd ; 

 4251, Stephens' Passage, Alaska, 198 fathoms, rocky; 4252, same 

 region, 198-201 fathoms, gray mud; 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 

 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine sand. Also a doubtful specimen 

 in the Academy of Natural Sciences, collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp 

 at Icy Cape, Alaska. 



Ninoe simpla Moore. 



Ninoe simpla Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 547-549, PI. 

 XXXV, fig. 30; XXXVI, figs. 39-44. 



This very distinct species resembles N. nigripes Vorrill in general 

 appearance, but differs widely from that and other species in having 

 the gills simple instead of palmate and in the presence of a small 

 median tubercle on the prostomium. 



It was taken at Stations 4235, 4236 and 4238, in the vicinity of Yes 

 Bay, Behm Canal, Alaska, in 130-231 fathoms, on muddy bottoms. 



STAURONEREID^. 



Stanronereis annulatus Moore. 



Stauronereis annulatus Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1906, pp. 225-227, 

 PI. X, figs. 12, 13; XI, figs. 18-22. 



Taken only at Quarantine Rock, Port Townsend, Washington, June 

 27, 1903. 



GLYOERID^. 



Glycera nana Johnson. 



Glycera nana Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, p. 411. 



Although most of the specimens of this species were taken not far 

 from the type locality in Puget Sound, two were found on the Alaskan 

 beaches. 



Stations 4193, Halibut Bank, GuK of Georgia, B. C, 18-23 fathoms, 

 green mud and fine sand; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky 

 green mud and fine sand ; 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 

 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud; also beach at Port Ellis and near 

 Shakan, Sumner Strait, southeastern Alaska. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



Glycera tesselata Grube. 



Glycera tesselata Grube, Arch. f. Naturges., 1863, I, p. 41. ' 



Two small and one large specimens (the latter a fragment measur- 

 ing 5 mm. across) of this genus are believed to belong to this species, 

 which has not hitherto been recorded at attaining so great a size. 



Station 4197, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 31-90 fathoms, 

 sticky green mud and fine sand. 



GONIADID^. 

 Glycinde wireni Arwidsson. 



Glycinde ivireni Ar-nidsson, Bergens Museums Aarbog, 1899, No. 11, np. 53, 

 54. 



Tliis species, taken during the voyage of the Vega at various points in 

 the Arctic Ocean and Bering Sea, ranges as far south as the Gulf of 

 Georgia. 



Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, ^^ancouver Island, B. C, 

 S9-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4194, Gulf of Georgia, Hali- 

 but Bank, 111-170 fathoms, sticky green mud; 4197, same region, 

 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand; 4223, Boca de Quadra, 

 southeastern -Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud; 4231, vicinity 

 of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 82-113 fathoms, 

 green mud and slate fragments; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 

 130-193 fathoms, gray mud. The last specimen is a ripe male, dis- 

 tended with sperm. 

 Goniada annulata Moore. 



Goniada annulata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 549-553, PI. 

 XXXVI, figs. 45-48. 



Most of the specimens are mature and have the posterior region 

 distended with eggs or sperm. There is a distinct tendency to increase 

 in size in correspondence with the location of the station from south 

 northward. The species is quite common from Halibut Bank, in the 

 Gulf of Georgia, northward to Chatham Strait. Stations 4197, Halibut 

 Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and 

 fine sand; 4198, same region, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud; 4235, 

 vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4237, 

 same region, 192-198 fathoms, green mud; 4238, same region, 229-231 

 fathoms, mud and rocks; 4258, vicinity of Funter Bay, Lynn Canal, 

 300-313 fathoms, mud; 4264, off Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 

 282-293 fathoms, green mud. 



AMPHARETIDiB. 

 Ampharete arctioa Malmgren. 



Ampharete arctioa Malmgren, Kgl. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 1865, p. 364. 

 Wiren has already recorded this species from Bering Sea, Other- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



wise it is unknown from the Pacific region. Except that their paleoli 

 have more produced points than Mahngren figures, these specimens 

 agree exactly with his account. A portion of a tube is 6.5 mm, in 

 diameter, with a lumen of 4 mm. and very fragile walls of fine silt. 



Stations 4225, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 149-181 

 fathoms, dark green mud ; 4258, vicinity of Funter Bay, I.ynn Canal, 

 300-313 fathoms, mud. 



Amphicteis alaskensis Moore. 



Amphicteis alaskensis Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 846-849, 

 PI. XLIV, figs. 1-4. 



Taken at Stations 4274, Alitak Bay, at a depth of 35-41 fathoms 

 on a bottom of green mud with some fine sand, and 4223, Boca de 

 Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud. 



Amphicteis glabra Moore. 



Amphicteis glabra Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 849-851, 

 PI. XLIV, figs. 5-8. 



A small portion of a tube is peculiarly elastic and springy and is 

 covered with a la3^er of brownish flocculent sediment. 



Station 4227, Behm Canal, in the vicinity of Naha Bay, 62 fathoms, 

 bottom of dark green mud and fine sand. 



Amphicteis scaphobranchiata Moore. 



Amphicteis scaphobranchiata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 

 255-257, PI. XII, figs. 54-61. 



Taken at the tj-pe locality only, Station 4201, off Fort Rupert, 

 Vancouver, in Queen Charlotte Sound, 138-145 fathoms, soft green 

 mud, sand and broken shells. 



Melinna denticulata Moore. 



Melinna denticulata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1905, p. 859, PI. 



XLIV, figs. 9 and 10. 

 Melinna cristata Moore, id., pp. 851-853. 



The original description of this species was inadvertently placed 

 under the name of M. cristata, which, as is well known, has already 

 been employed by Sars, The name denticulata was, however, correctly 

 used in the description of the figures on page 857. 



The type and only specimen was taken at Station 4258, in the 

 vicinity of Funter Bay, Lynn Canal, on a bottom of mud, 300-313 

 fathoms. 



Melinna cristata (Sars) Malmgren. 



Melinna cristata Malmgren, Ofvers. Kgl.-Vet. Akad. Forh., 1865, p. 371, 

 Two well-preserved specimens in their thick-walled nuid tubes 

 represent this species. They were both dredged at Boca de Quadra, 

 23 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



southeastern .Maska, at Stations 4224 and 4225, 149-188 fathoms, 

 dark green mud. 



Samytha biooulata Moore. 



Samytha biocidata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906. pp. 253-255, 

 PI. XLIV, figs. 11-13. 



The upper, thickened portion of the mud tube is strengthened by 

 large numbers of siHceous sponge spicules. 



Two specimens were taken at Station 4197, Gulf of Georgia, 31-90 

 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand. 



TEREBBLLID^. 



Amphitrite robusta Johnson. 



Amphitrite robusta Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, pp. 425, 426. 

 This species appears to be quite abundant in the Gulf of Georgia and 

 as far north as Naha Bay, Behm Canal. It reaches a larger size than 

 is indicated by Johnson, sometimes exceeding 140 mm, in length and 

 18 mm. in diameter, the greatest niunber of segments being 83. The 

 divisions of the branchiae are often longer than figured by Johnson, 

 whose figure of the uncinus also is somewhat foreshortened. The 

 number of setigerous somites is constantly 17, as stated by Johnson. 

 Some of the specimens bear short cirri or papillae beneath the setas of 

 some of the anterior segments. This is probably a secondary sex 

 character, but this could not be ascertained with certainty. 



Stations 4193, Hahbut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C., 18-23 fathoms, 

 green mud and fine sand; 4194, same region, 111-170 fathoms, soft 

 green mud; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and 

 fine sand; 4198, 157-280 fathoms, soft green mud; 4228, vicinity of 

 Naha Bay Behm Canal, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge. 

 Amphitrite radiata nom. nov. 



Amphitrite palmata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 858, 859, 

 PI. XLIV, figs. 19-22; not ^. palmata Mahngren, 1865. 

 Stations 4227, Naha Bay, Behm Canal, 62-65 fathoms, dark green 

 mud and fine sand; 4245 (tyipe locality), Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales 

 Island, 95-98 fathoms, dark green mud with fragments of shell, rock 

 and sand ; 4253, Stephens Passage, 131-188 fathoms, rock and broken 

 shells. 



Lanice heterobranchia Johnson. 



Lanice heterobranchia Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, p. 427. 

 The original description is based upon a single specimen which was 

 stated to have no eyes. All of several specimens in the present collec- 

 tion possess very numerous deep brown eyes arranged in a compact 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



narrow band on eacli side, with a dorsal interval equal to the inter- 

 branchial space and a longer ventral interval. These eyes are ordi- 

 narily concealed by the inrolled margin of the prostomial fold. The 

 inequality of the gills seems to be a constant character and the number 

 of setigerous segments is 17, as stated by Johnson. Part of a tube is 

 covered with small pebbles, sea-urchin spines, bits of eel grass, etc. 



None of the specimens was found near the type locality in Puget 

 Sound, but all in Alaskan waters at the following stations: 4228, 

 vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 

 fathoms, gravel and sponge; 4259, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, 21-78 

 fathoms, gray sand, broken shell and rock; 4283 Chignik Bay, 30-41 

 fathoms, black sand and brown sponge; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak 

 Island, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud, 



Pista cristata (MuUer) Malmgren. 



Pista crislata Malmgren, Ofvers. Kongl. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 1S65, pp. 382, 383. 



The single example of Pista referred to this species agrees with those 

 dredged by the Albatross off the coast of Japan, and differs from P. 

 cristata as described by European authors in having the upper free 

 angle of the lateral subbranchial membrane of IV much more produced 

 and prominent, quite equalling that of III. Otherwise they agree, so 

 far as can be ascertained, in all features. The handles of the uncini on 

 V are longer than the others, but there is no other difference. 



Station 4225, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 149-181 

 fathoms, dark green mud. 



?Pista fasciata (Grube) Marenzeller. 



Pista fasciata Marenzeller, Denlvs. Kais. Akad. Wissensch., 1885, Abth. 2, 

 pp. 202-204. 



Concerning the reference of the fine species of Pista found at several 

 stations in southeastern Alaska to the above named, I am in much 

 doubt. Grube's description of Terehella fasciata is not sufficiently 

 precise for certain determination, but the excellent accounts and 

 figures given by Marenzeller and Mcintosh seem to me to refer to 

 different species. In any event the figure of the branchiae given by 

 the latter would not answer for these specimens, as the terminal twigs 

 are much more spreading and uneven. About 3 or 4 main branches 

 spring from the trunk, and these immedia.tely branch and rebranch 

 asymmetrically 8 or 10 times, the main stem being always recognizable, 

 but bending at each point of branching and tapering continuously to 

 the end. Usually 3 gills are well developed, and 1 is either very 

 small and entirely without branches or may be altogether wanting. 

 Which are well developed appears to be quite accidental. They may 




352 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



be the two of a pair, or the two of one side, or the left of one and right of 

 the other pair. 



All of the specimens exhibit the great flaring wings so well shown in 

 Mcintosh's figure, and there is a distinct postbranchial fold across the 

 dorsum of IV. The cirri above and behind the setae bundles of VI and 

 VII are well developed. In respect to most of their characters the 

 uncini resemble Mcintosh's figure closer than those given by Maren- 

 zeller, but the former fails to show the guard. 



Although none of the specimens is complete, upwards of 100 seg- 

 ments are present, and even incomplete examples measure 160 mm. 

 long and 6 mm. wide across the thorax, being therefore much larger 

 than Marenzeller's specimen. The tube has a thick wall composed of 

 fine silt. The one from Station 4246 is filled with eggs. 



Stations 4225, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 149-lSl 

 fathoms, dark green mud; 4229, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, 

 198-256 fathoms, soft gray mud; 4230, same region, 108-240 fathoms, 

 rocky; 4237, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 192-198 fathoms, 

 green mud; 4246, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 101-123 

 fathoms, gray-green mud, coarse sand and shells. 



Laena nuda Moore. 



Lana nuda Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 855, 856, PI. 

 XLIV, figs. 14, 15. 



Known only from the type specimen, a female filled with eggs and 

 preserved in a soft mucous tube coated with a thin layer of foreign 

 materials. It was taken at Station 4279, Kadiak Island, 29 fathoms, 

 dark gray mud. 



Thelepus hamatus Moore. 



Thelepus hamatus Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1905, pp. 856-858, 

 PI. XLIV, figs. 16-18. 



The type comes from Station 4235, Yes Ba,y, Behm Canal, 130-193 

 fathoms, green mud, and a second poorly preserved specimen from 

 Station 4227, Naha Bay, Behm Canal, 62-65 fathoms, dark green mud 

 and fine sand. 



Ataoama conifera Moore. 



Atacama conifera Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 853-855, 

 Pl.XLIV, figs. 11-13. 



Type from Station 4194, Gulf of Georgia, 111-170 fathoms, bottom 

 of soft green mud. A second specimen comes from an unknown 

 station. 

 Terebellides strcemi Sars. 



TerebeUides straimii Sars, Beskrivelser og lagthagelser, etc., 1835, p. 48. 



The proper discrimination of the species of TerebeUides is still a 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



desideratum. While in their more obvious characters the species are 

 very constant, in respect to others they vary greatly. The repre- 

 sentatives of the genus found in this collection are in most respects 

 indistinguishable from the widely distributed T. strcemii as described by 

 European writers. On the other hand the transitional setie of somite 

 VIII and the abdominal uncini present slight but quite obvious differ- 

 ences at nearly every station. It seems probable that this species as 

 usually recognized includes a large number of subspecies. 



The bent setae of VIII vary in the length and shape of the bent limb. 

 The uncini usually have 5 teeth in the series above and surrounding the 

 beak; surmounting these is a second row of 3 smaller teeth, and crown- 

 ing all a single still smaller median tooth. The latter varies in size and 

 in distinctness from the median tooth of the row below, with which it is 

 more or less coalesced; it may even be wanting entirely. The most 

 distinct form occurs on a large example from Station 4247, in which 

 all of the abdominal uncini examined have the median teeth of the 

 second and third rows completely coalesced and that of the first 

 row altogether absent, leaving a gap. The result is that the beak and 

 one nearly equally large tooth occupy the middle line and a large tooth 

 flanked by a smaller one lies on each side of the gap. Most of the 

 specimens are filled with eggs or sperm. 



Stations 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, 

 soft green mud; 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 50-54 

 fathoms, green mud; 4247, same region, 89-114 fathoms, green mud, 

 fine sand, broken shells; 4281, Chignik Bay, 42-43 fathoms, green mud. 

 Polycirrus sp. 



An undetermined species of Polycirrus was taken at Kilisut Harbor. 



AMPHIOTENID^. 

 Pectinaria auriooma (Mailer). 



Amphictene auricoma Malmgi-en, Ofvers. Kongl. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 1866, pp. 

 357, 358. 



All of the AmphictenidsB in the collection belong to one species which- 

 is clearly distinct from any of those hitherto recorded in the Pacific. 

 While closely resembling P. auricoma in nearly every respect, there are 

 some points of distinction between these and European examples 

 which may require their eventual specific or subspecific separation. 

 The margin of the cephaUc membrane is more obscurely and much 

 more irregularly dentate; the uncini usually have 5 large teeth, and the 

 series of fine teeth on the inferior process is not continued on to the 

 upper part of the process beneath the lower large tooth; the scapha 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunC, 



hooks are never as completely circular at the end as figured for Euro- 

 pean specimens. The paleoli are always 12. In the smaller specimens 

 they have rather long slender tips which wear away, leaving the ends 

 blunt or, in the case of the lateral ones, somewhat pointed. 



Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver, B. C, 89-97 

 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm 

 Canal, southeastern Alaska, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4244, Kasaan 

 Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 50-54 fathoms, green mud; 4286, Chignik 

 Bay, 57-63 fathoms, green mud and rocks. 



OAPITELLID^. 



Notomastuo giganteus Moore. 



Notomastus giganteus Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 227, 228, 

 PI. X, figs. 24, 25. 



The type locality is Station 4264, off Freshwater Bay, in Chatham 

 Strait, 282-293 fathoms, green mud; a larger but incomplete cotype 

 was taken at Station 4197, Gulf of Georgia, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green 

 mud and fine sand. 



OPHELIIDiE. 



Ammotrypane aulogaster Rathke. 



Ammotrypane aulogaster Rathke, Nov. Act. Acad. Cses. Leop.-Car. Nat. 

 Cur., (1843), XX, pp. 188-190. 



A single individual 27 mm. long and consisting of 49 segments was 

 taken at Station 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 

 fathoms, gray mud. 

 Ammotrypane brevis Moore. 



Ammotrypane brevis Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1906, pp. 354, 

 355, text fig. 



The single example on which this species is based is distinguished 

 from the preceding by having the prostomium somewhat depressed 

 dorso-ventrally instead of compressed laterally, by the small number 

 (29) of setigerous somites, and by having the large spoon-shaped anal 

 lobe represented by a slender process only. The type, a female filled 

 with eggs, is No. 284 of the collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, and was collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at 

 Icy Cape, Alaska. 



Travisia forbesii Johnston. 



Travisia forbesii Johnston, Ann. Nat. Hist., IV, (1840), p. 373. 

 Already recorded from Bering Sea by both Wiren and ]\Iarenzeller, 

 this species would be expected to occur on the coast of Alaska. While 

 none were taken by the Albatross naturalists, there are six specimens in 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, taken by Dr. Sharp 



at Icy Cape. They vary from 25 to 40 mm. in length and one has the 



posterior end regenerating. This species is easily distinguished from 



the next by having smooth setae, whereas in T. pupa they are hispid 



and also somewhat stouter. 



Travisia pupa Moore. 



Travisia pupa Moore, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 228-231 PI, 

 XI, fig. 23. ' 



This is an abundant worm, conspicuous from its large size and wide- 

 spread on muddy bottoms. Specimens were taken at the following 

 stations : 4192, Gulf of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and 

 fine sand; 4194, Gulf of Georgia (type locaHty), 111-170 fathoms, 

 soft green mud; 4197, Gulf of Georgia, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green 

 mud and fine sand ; 4230, Behm Canal, 108-240 fathoms, rocky; 

 4235, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4237, Behm Canal, 

 192 fathoms, green mud; 4246 Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 

 101-123 fathoms, gray and green mud, coarse sand and shells. 



MALDANID^. 

 Maldane sarsi Malmgren. 



Maldane Sarsi Malmgren, Ofvers. Kgl. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 1865, p. 188. 



Mcintosh and the writer have already recorded this species as occur- 

 ring in the Pacific off Japan and Wiren in Bering Sea. The posterior 

 capillary setae have the hairs arranged not in opposite pairs, but 

 spirally. 



Stations 4224, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 156-166 

 fathoms, dark green mud; 4264, off Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 

 282-293 fathoms, green mud; 4286, Chignik Bay, 57-63 fathoms, green 

 mud and rocks. The specimen last listed is a piece of the posterior end, 

 including the pygidium, of a very large individual 3 mm. in diameter. 



Maldane similis Moore. 



Maldane similis Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila.. 1906. pp. 233-236 PI. 

 XI, figs. 26-30. ' 



The type and one other specimen were taken at Station 4264, off 



Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 282-293 fathoms, green mud. 



Maldanella robusta Moore. 



Maldanella robusta Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, 236-239. PI. 

 XI, figs. 31, 32. 



Specimens of M. robusta were taken at Stations 4197, Gulf of Georgia; 

 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand ; 4230, Behm Canal, 

 108-240 fathoms, rocky battom; and 4246 (type locality), 101-123 

 fathoms, green mud with coarse sand and shell fragments. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [June, 



Lumbriolymene pacifica Moore. 



Lumhriclymene pacifica Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. pp. 246-248, 

 PI. Xli, figs. 40-42. 



Two complete worms and a fragment, together with four or five tubes, 

 were taken at Station 4264, off Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 282- 

 293 fathoms, green mud; and a caudal end at Station 4199, Queen 

 Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver, B. C, 68-107 fathoms, 

 soft green mud and volcanic sand. 



Clymenella tentaculata Moore. 



ClymeneUa tentaculata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., pp. 239-242, PI. 

 XI, figs. 33-35. 



Known only from two fragments taken at Station 4264, off Fresh- 

 water Bay, Chatham Strait, July 25, 282-293 fathoms, green mud. 



Nioomaclie carinata Moore. 



Nicomache carinata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 242-246, 

 Pis. XI, figs. 36-39; XII, figs. 43, 44. 



Fragments of this species occur in the collections from the Gulf of 

 Georgia, Station 4197, 31-100 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine 

 sand ; and Station 4198, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud. The 

 type locality is Station 4227, in the vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, 

 62-65 fathoms, dark green mud and fine sand. 



SOALIBREGMID^. 

 Scalibregma inflatum Rathke. 



Scalibregma inflatu7n Rathke, Nov. Act. Acad. Caes. Leop.-Car. Nat. Cur., 

 XX, (1843), p. 184. 



Two specimens, each about 32 mm. long and having 57 segments, 

 seem to be quite typical in every respect. 



Stations 4223, Boca de Quadra, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud, and 

 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, Alaska, 12-17 fathoms, sticky 

 mud. 



OHLORH^MIDJE. 

 Trophonia papillata Johnson. 



Trophonia papillata Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, p. 416. 



Silt has adhered to the bases of the cutaneous papillse to such an 

 extent that they appear mammilliform, and until they were examined 

 under the microscope it was supposed that an entirely new species was 

 in hand. 



Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver Island, B. C, 

 89-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand ; 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak 

 Island, Alaska, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



Brada villosa (Rathke) Malmgren. 



Siphnno^toma villomm Rathke, Nov, Act. Acad. Ca?s. Leop.-Car. Nat. Cur., 

 XX (1843), p. 218. 



No good figures of the setse of this species have been found and the 

 identification is based on the characters of the papillae, tentacles, etc. 

 Most of the specimens have the head extended. The number of seg- 

 ments is usually about 30, thus exceeding the number shown in Rathke's 

 figure. The surface is coated with mucous, which becomes hard and to 

 which sand grains adhere, producing a gritty surface, especially on the 

 bases of the papillae. Marenzeller records the occurrence of this species 

 in Bering Sea. 



Stations 4223, Boca de Quadra, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud; 

 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud. 



Brada pilosa Moore. 



Brada pilosa Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 231-233, PI. X, 

 figs. 1-1-17. 



This is a rather common species northward. Examples occur in 

 the collections from Stations 4194, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 

 11 1-170 fathoms; 4198, same region, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud; 

 4251 (type locality), Stephens Passage, 198 fathoms, rocky bottom ; 

 4235, Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4252, 

 Stephens Passage, 198-201 fathoms, gray mud, and 4258, Lynn Canal, 

 300-313 fathoms, mud. 



STERNASPID^. 



Sternaspis scutata (Ranzani) Otto. 



SterJiaspis scutata, Marenzeller, Ann. K. K. Nat. Hofmuseums Wien, V, 

 (1890), p. 6. 



These specimens agree exactly with those taken by the Albatross off 

 Japan. Compared with typical examples of the species from the 

 Mediterranean, they appear to have both the cephalic and caudal seta? 

 more slender, and the shorter setae of the latter region much less hairy. 

 This appears to be due to the hairs having been rubbed off, but may 

 possibly be a normal and constant difference. The form of the caudal 

 plate and branchial area agrees with Marenzeller's figures. 



Stations 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, Alaska, 130-193 

 fathoms, gray mud; 4236, same region, 147-205 fathoms, rocks and 

 coarse sand; 4251, Stephens Passage, 198 fathoms, rocks; 4252, sam.e 

 region, 198-201 fathoms, gray mud; 4255, Taiya Inlet, Lynn Canal, 

 247-259 fathoms, rocky. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



?Sterna8pis fossor Stimpson. 



? Sternaspis fossor, Marenzeller, Ann. K. K. Hof museums Wien, V, (1890), 

 pp. 5-8. 



As Johnson remarks, the Sternaspis from the neighborhood of Van- 

 couver Island agrees in all respects with specimens from the Atlantic 

 Coast. Stimpson's S. affinis from Puget Sound is with little doubt to 

 be considered a synonym. It is noticeable that the lateral angles of 

 the shield plate become more prominent on examples from the more 

 southern stations. As represented in this collection this species 

 attains a considerably larger size than the last, some of the specimens 

 being 25 mm. long and 9 mm. in diameter. 



Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver, B. C., 

 89-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4194, Halibut Banlc, Gulf of 

 Georgia, 111-170 fathoms, soft green mud; 4201, Queen Charlotte 

 Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver Island, B. C, 138-145 fathoms, 

 soft green mud, sand, broken shells; 4218, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity 

 of Port Townsend, Washington, 16 fathoms, soft green mud; 4223, 

 Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud ; 

 4233, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 39-45 fathoms, soft gray mud 

 and rocks; 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 50-54 fathoms, 

 green mud; 4247, same region, 89-114 fathoms, green mud, sand and 

 broken shells. 



HERMELLID^. 

 Sabellaria cementarium Moore. 



Sabellaria cementarium Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1906, pp. 248- 

 253, PI. XII, figs. 45-51. 



This fine species is probably rather common and may possibly be 

 identical with /S. calif ornica Fewkes, though the description of the latter 

 fails in several respects to apply to this species. This point I hope to 

 clear up later. The tubes, formed of agglutinated sand grains, are 

 remarkable for their strength and hardness, and are found singly or in 

 small clumps attached to stones. 



Specimens were taken at the following stations : 4220 (type), 

 Admiralty Inlet, near Port Townsend, Washington, 16-31 fathoms, 

 green mud, sand and broken shells; 4247, Prince of Wales Island, 89- 

 114 fathoms, green mud with sand and broken shells; 4274, Kadiak 

 Island, 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4288, Uyak Bay, 

 Kadiak Island, 67-^9 fathoms, gray mud. 



SABELLID^. 

 Sabella formosa Bush. 



Sabella formosa Bush, Tubi colons Annelids from the Pacific Ocean, Harri- 

 man Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, pp. 196, 197. 



These examples agree well with Miss Bush's description, but differ 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



in having 7, 8 and 9 setigerous thoracic somites respectively. Only one 

 is well preserved and this has nearly the entire branchiae wine brown, 

 deepest on the radioles and marked with white blotches. The body 

 is 41 mm., the branchiae 30 mm. long, the former much contracted, the 

 latter extended. 



Station 4198, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 157-230 fathoms, soft 

 green mud. 



Sabella elegans Bush. 



Sabella elegans Bush, Tubicolous Annelids from the Pacific Ocean, Harriman 

 Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, pp. 194, 195. 



A fine individual 50 mm. long with 19 pairs of branchia? has 4 rows 

 of very regular, deep purplish brown spots which occupy the radioles 

 and extend more faintly on to the pinme of each branchia. A second 

 smaller one has but 3 sets of spots, and a third still smaller one has them 

 irregularly arranged. 



Stations 4227, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern 

 Alaska, 62-65 fathoms, dark green mud and fine sand ; 4260, Dundas 

 Bay, Icy Strait, 8^-21 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks. 



Pseudopotamilla anoculata Moore. 



Pseudopotamilla anoculata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 566- 

 568, PI. XXXVII, figs. 28-33. 



Known from the type only, taken at Station 4230 in the vicinity of 

 Naha Bay, Behm Canal, 108-240 fathoms, rocky bottom. 



Pseudopotamilla splendida Moore. 



Pseudopotamilla splendida Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 564-566, 

 PI. XXXVII, figs. 23-27. 



Two specimens were taken at Station 4245, Kasaan Bay, Prince of 

 Wales Island, June 11, 1903, 95-98 fathoms, dark green mud and sand 

 mixed with shell and rock fragments. 



Pseudopotamilla intermedia Moore. 



Pseudopotamilla intermedia Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 

 562-564, PI. XXXVII, figs. 15-22. 



The type only is known; originally recorded erroneously as coming 

 from Station 4267, but really from Station 4269, Afognak Bay, Afog- 

 nak Island, 14-19 fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks. 



Pseudopotamilla reniformis (Leuckart) Bush. 



Potamilla reniformis Malmgren, Ofvers, Kgl. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 1867, p. 114. 



Two specimens are each about 35 mm. long with 16 pairs 



of branchiae 6 mm. long. Both have 10 setigerous thoracic 



segments. The branchiaj are colorless except for a brownish zone 



covering the basal ^, in which all of the eyes, never more than 1 or 2 on 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June^ 



each radiole, are aggregated. Several regenerating radicles bear no 

 eyes. The dorsal branchial wing is well developed and there is a slight 

 ventral inflection of the branchial base. The collar has well developed 

 dorsal lobes near the median line, separated by a pair of very deep wide 

 notches from the lateral lobes, which rise abruptly above the collar 

 setse. There is a little pigment on the dorsum of segments II to IV. 

 The tube is rather soft and flexible and covered with rather coarse sand 

 grains. 



Stations 4269, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, Alaska, 14^19 

 fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks ; 4271, same region, 11^20 fathoms, 

 hard gray sand and rock. 

 Pseudopotamilla brevibranohiata Moore. 



PseudopotamiUa brevibranchiafa Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1905, 

 pp. 555-559, PI. XXXVII, figs. 1-7. 



Type and cotype taken at Station 4247, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales 

 Island, 95-114 fathoms, mixed mud, sand and broken shells. 

 Pseudopotamilla occelata Moore. 



Pseudopotamilla occelata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Scj. Phila., 1905, 559-562, 

 Pi. XXXVII, fig. 8-14. 



This species occurs at the following stations : 4202, off Fort Rupert, 

 Vancouver Island, 25-36 fathoms, gray sand; 4261, Icy Strait, 10 

 fathoms, mud and rock; 4269 and 4270, 14-19 fathoms, hard sand and 

 rock. The largest specimens, among them the type, are yielded by the 

 last station listed. 

 Pseudopotamilla debilis Bush. 



Pseudopotamilla debilis Bush, Tubicolous Annelids of the Pacific Ocean, 

 Harriman Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, p. 204. 



A single specimen lacking the posterior part represents this species. 

 There are 16 pairs of gills 14 mm. long. Eyes appear to be totally 

 wanting and the gills are marked by a pale brown zone near the base 

 and another al)out midway of their length. The collar is remarkable for 

 its prominent dorsal lobes. The tube is long, slender, flexible, and 

 sparsely covered with sand grains and an occasional small pebble. 



Station 4197, Gulf of Georgia, Halibut Bank, 31-90 fathoms, sticky 

 green mud and fine sand. 



Chone gracilis Moore. 



Chone gracilis Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 190G, pp. 257-259, PI. 

 XII, figs. 62-66. 



Known through the type, which comes from Station 4274, Alitak 

 Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; and a 

 smaller specimen taken at Station 4253, Stephens Passage, 131-188 

 fathoms, rocks and broken shells. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



SERPULID^ 

 Apomatus geniculata Moore. 



Protula geniculata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, pp. 16S, 169, Pis. 

 XI, figs. 17, 1S;XII, fig. 38. 



A small complete specimen bears 18 pairs of gills, the left dorsal- 

 most one of which is enlarged and flattened and 

 siip])orts only two or three barbs. In the bottle, 

 which contains no other specimens, is a detached 

 operculum which exactly fits the modified radiole 

 and without doubt belongs to this annelid, placing 

 it therefore in the genus Apomat us. The opercu- 

 lum has the form shown in the figure, being 

 broadly obovate or egg-shaped and quite smooth, 

 soft and membranous. In all other respects the 

 specimen agrees with the type. Some fragments 

 of tubes indicate that two are sometimes coherent Apomatus geniculata— 

 side by side. The operculum and 



station 4197, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, outline, x about'' 25. 

 31-90 fathoms, soft green mud and fine sand. 



Serpula columbiana Johnson. 



Serpula columhiana Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, pp. 432, 433. 



Johnson describes the operculum as having about 100 ribs and 

 marginal denticulations. In these specimens the number is always 

 much greater and varies from 140 to 160. Miss Bush also has noted a 

 larger number on her specimens. The functional operculum is devel- 

 oped sometimes on the right, sometimes on the left side. The accessory 

 operculum is simply clavate. Varying with the size of the specimen 

 the branchiae number from 36 to 55 pairs. The seta? of the collar have 

 from 2 to 4 large, blunt teeth at the base of the long, slender, curved 

 tip, and the- uncini are usually 5- or 6-toothed. Tubes forming a 

 large mass coherent side by side are much thinner and more fragile than 

 tubes found singly. 



Port Townsend, on the dock at the .Quarantine Station, also Station 

 4205, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Washington, 15-26 

 fathoms, rock and shells. 

 Crucigera formosa Bush. 



Crucigera formosa Bush, Tubicolous AnneUds of the Pacific Ocean, Harri- 

 man Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, pp. 233, 234. 



This species seems very doubtfully distinct from C. zygophom (John- 

 son). The operculum is usually 26- or 27-rayed, but one specimen has 

 29 and another 32 rays. The tubes are thick and solid and generally 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



much coiled and coherent in chimps. One isolated tube is much coiled 

 at the attached base, with an erect free end. 



Stations 4209, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Wash- 

 ington, 24-25 fathoms, rocks, coarse sand and shells; 4261, Dundas 

 Bay, Icy Strait, Alaska, 8^10 fathoms, green mud and rocks; 4263, 

 same region, 6^9 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks; 4271, Afognak Bay, 

 Afognak Island, 11^^- to 20 fathoms, hard gray sand and rock; 4283, 

 Chignik Bay, 30-41 fathoms, black sand and brown sponge. Empty 

 tubes, apparently of this species, were found at Stations 4202, 4204 and 

 4289. 

 Hyalopomatopsis occidentalis Bush. 



Hyalopomatopsis occidentalis Bush, Tubicolous Annelids of the Tribes 

 Sabellides and Serpuhdes f rom the Pacific Ocean, Harriman Alaska Expedi- 

 tion Reports, 1905, p. 229. 



One was found attached to a tube of Serpula columhiana from Sta- 

 tion 4205, and another to a tube of Crucigera formosa from Station 

 4283. 

 Spirorbis quadrangularis Stimpson. 



Spirorbis quadrangularis Stimpson, Bush, Tubicolous Annelids of the Tribes 

 Sabellides and Serpulides from the Pacific Ocean, Harriman Alaska 

 Expedition Reports, 1905, p. 241. 



Found on tubes of Crucigera formosa at Stations 4271 and 4289. 



Spirorbis spirillum Linn. 



Spirorbis spirillum Linn., Bush, id., p. 243. 

 Numerous specimens attached to a piece of giant kelp from Station 

 4262, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, 9 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks; also 

 a number in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia (No. 1090), collected by Mr. E. A. Mcllhenny at Point 

 Barrow, Alaska. 

 Spirorbis tridentata Levinsen. 



Spirorbis granulata var. tridentata Levinsen, Viden. Medd. Naturh. J'oren., 

 Kopenhaven, 1882, p. 350; not S. tridentata Bush. 



The tubes of this very characteristic species agree so closely with 

 Levinsen's figure that I refer them thereto, in preference to giving a new 

 name founded upon the peculiarities of the worm, though it may be 

 that the animal which occupies the tubes figured by Levinsen will prove 

 to be quite different. 



The figures of the tubes given by Levinsen would serve equally well 

 for these. They are close, sinistral, discoid coils without any true 

 central opening, the first coils being in contact in the center. As the 

 tubes grow older the outer turns tend to overlap and pile upon the 

 inner, leaving a deep central depression bounded by nearly vertical 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



363 



At the same time the tube, which is perfectly smooth in the 

 early stages, becomes roughened by growth lines, and its walls become 

 very thick, solid and stony, and are ornamented by three thick and 

 stout ridges rounded on the free side and covering most of the outer 

 surface of the shell. Here and there the depressions between them are 

 crossed by transverse spurs and rods. At the aperture of the tube 

 these ridges project as three very strong and prominent teeth. Fully 

 developed tubes are usually 3.5 mm. in diameter and composed of 4 

 to 4J turns. The carinae begin at the end of the third turn and I.evin- 

 sen's figure very accurately represents one in a half-grown condition, 

 in which the ridged whorl is just beginning to turn in upon the inner 

 coils. One more turn, with the ridge characters exaggerated, would 



Spirorbis tridentatus — a, an operculum in side \\eyv, filled -vvith embryos and 

 showing the imperfect four-tiered calcareous plug, X 24; fe, one of the calcare- 

 ous plates detached and seen from the inner surface, X 24; c, a collar seta, 

 the fin at the base may be somewhat too long, X 600; d, the two seta? of an 

 abdominal bundle, X 600. 



result in a condition exactly like my full-grown tubes, in which the 

 inner coils are completely concealed from above and the exposed parts 

 bear massive ridges. Where free to grow without restraint the tubes 

 are strictly discoid and the lower surface of all of the coils is in intimate 

 contact with the alga to which they are attached, but when the indi- 

 viduals are crowded the coils are heaped up in various irregular and 

 often angulated forms. 



In general form the operculum (a) agrees well with that of S. granu- 

 latus, being a slender cone containing a broad pouch filled with embryos 

 and tapering regularly into a long but rather stout stalk. The cal- 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



oareous part, however, is remarkable, being built up of 3 or even 4 (a) 

 calcareous disks of complex form (6). Each has a somewhat grooved 

 rim with thin projecting flanges whose margins appear to be entire 

 when perfect, but are usually jagged as a result of wear. It is very 

 seldom that more than the basal disk and the one next beyond are 

 found entire. An excentric opening prolonged into a tube on the 

 proximal side perforates each disk obliquely dorsal to the center and 

 accommodates the siphuncular ligament, binding all together. The 

 number of branchia; is about 11, but could not be definitely ascertained, 

 owing to their being so closely matted together. 



There are 3 thoracic and about 24 setigerous abdominal segments, 

 the latter region being veiy short. The winged collar setffi have the 

 form shown at c, the basal fin being very long, uniform!}^ serrated and 

 overlapping the base of the blade without an interval. The blade is 

 very finely serrated, long, acute, and tapering. The remaining thoracic 

 setae are partly limbate capillary and jjartly serrate and sickle-shaped. 

 Each fascicle of abdominal setae contains but two, one being a minute 

 aciculum wdth the end bent, the other having a broadly expanded end 

 much like those of S. spirillum (d) . Nothing distinctive can be detected 

 about the uncinial plates. 



The type is No. 80, collection Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, and was taken along Math several cotypes at Dutch Harbor, 

 Unalaska, by Dr. Benjamin Sharp. Attached to a tough alga frond. 




PROC. ACAD NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE VIII 



n. 



^«V 



1:^ 



Ik 



6 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID^E. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



I 



■"\ 



^ 7 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYC0S1D.S. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 





I 





8 



?--^??f^. 



A} 



HI 



^ 



// 



3 



! f 



\ li^ 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID.^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



,/— 



I . 



n^^K 





V 



t M ^ 



w^ 



'W 



QOO^ \ 



"if 

 1 



6 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSIDyE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



^. 



2 



5 



CHAMBERLIN on LYCOSID.S. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA 19 )S. 



PLATE XIII 



/ 



/f^'- 





CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID.^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XIV. 



/ 



3 



■\ /" / 



VJ-^^'^^*^^^*^^ 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID.^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSIDvE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XVI. 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID^^. 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XVII. 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID-^E. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XVIIl 



^ 2 



I ^h 



\.'%5^' 



8 



\ 



W. 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID.^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XIX, 



^/^......^.i^iM^W 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID^S. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1£ 



PLATE XX. 



/ /T^ <^ \ 



-r^^^^ ., r\^^ V. 



9 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID^E. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XXI. 



r\' 



'X 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID.^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XXII. 



I 



A 



^\X"X,' 



4- 



y 



\. nj 



5 



6 



8 



9 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID.^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1908, 



PLATE XXlri. 



/\ 



ifii 



-\^ 



71 



/ 





'\/ 



CHAMBERLIN on LYCOSID^E 





1908.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



AN ORTHOPTEROLOGICAL RECONNOISSANCE OF THE SOUTHWESTERN 

 UNITED STATES. PART I : ARIZONA. 



BY JAMES A, G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD. 



During the summer of 1907 Orthopterological field work was carried 

 on by the authors at a number of stations extending from El Paso, 

 Texas, and Albuquerque, New Mexico, to southern and north-central 

 California, the material and notes secured being very extensive and of 

 great value. In this paper we present the results of our work in 

 Arizona, giving first an idea of the environment of the various locali- 

 ties visited. 



A trip to the little known Baboquivari range in southern Pima 

 County was interrupted and of necessity abandoned on account of the 

 flooded condition of the country to be traversed. Much good material, 

 however, was taken before our party was compelled to return to 

 Tucson. 



Mr. Otho Poling, the well-known Lepidopterist of Quincy, Illinois, 

 accompanied us through southern Arizona and assisted in collecting 

 much of the material, while all secured in northern Arizona was taken 

 by the junior author. The number of specimens examined was nine 

 hundred and seventy-three, while the species numbered sixty-three. 



Several specimens collected at Nogales and Grand Canyon by Dr. 

 P. P. Calvert in 1906 and a small series taken in or near the Huachuca 

 Mountains by Mr. H. A. Kaeber in the summer of 1907 have also been 

 studied and inserted in this paper, but these are not included in the 

 count of species and specimens. 



The types of all the new forms are in the Hebard Collection. 



Tucson, Pima County, Arizona. — Elevation about 2,400 feet. July 

 23 and 26. The immediate vicinity of Tucson is a nearly level desert 

 plain, extending from the Santa Catalina to the Tucson Mountains, 

 drained by the Santa Cruz River and other less constant and smaller 

 streams and washes. A considerable portion of this plain is covered 

 with stretches of greasewood (Covillea tridentata) and scattered growths 

 of various cacti. In the vicinity of the water courses and washes 

 mesquite {Prosopis sp.) is the predominating vegetation, attaining a 

 height of twenty feet or more in favorable locahties, especially along 

 the Santa Cruz River. The most successful collecting was found in 

 and about a vacant lot on the edge of the city, in the central part of 

 which was a small pool of water, the outlet of a city drain. About 

 24 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^ly, 



this pool were high cat-tails and other thick growths of plants, in which 

 situation Orthopters were found to be very plentiful, and likewise among 

 a nearby dense thicket of wild sunflowers and bushes. In these situa- 

 tions the following species were taken: Paratettix toltecus, Syrhula 

 fusco-vittata, Scyllina calida, Encoptolophus texensis, Trepidulus 

 rosaceus, Conozoa carinata, Anconia Integra, Schistocerca vaga, ^oloplus 

 tenuipennis, Melanoplus brownii, M. atlanis and (Ecanthus quadripunc- 

 tatus. In the irrigated fields near the river some specimens were found, 

 although by no means as many as might have been expected in a 

 locality apparently so favorable. On the typical desert greasewood 

 plain forms peculiar to a like environment, such as Heliastus aridus, 

 Ligurotettix kunzei, Derotmema laticinctum and Psoloessa texana, were 

 taken. In the city at night about the arc Hghts thousands of Gryllids 

 swarmed and could be easily captured in great numbers. 



Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, Pima County, Arizona. — 

 Altitude about 3,000 feet. July 25. The old Sonora trail after leaving 

 Tucson winds around the southeast base of the rather low Tucson 

 Mountains, then turns sharply and crosses the range by following up 

 an arroyo or torrent bed and traversing a very low pass in a shallow 

 canyon with sloping sides. The canyon is very rough and much of the 

 rock exposure is dull reddish in color. The vegetation is composed in 

 large part of desert foothill types, the most noticeable of which are 

 numerous sahuaro {Cereus giganteus), palo verde {Cercidium torrey- 

 anum), choUa {Opuntia sp.) and the peculiar Koeberlinia spinosa. 

 Orthoptera were few in number, but the species found were of very 

 great interest and differed noticeably from those of the surrounding 

 plains. These included a new mantis Yersinia sophronica, a new 

 Truxalid Horesidotes papagensis, Ageneotettix australis, Aulocara 

 rufum, Arphia teporata and Phrynotettix magnus. The majority of 

 the specimens taken showed considerable adaptation of their coloring 

 to the reddish exposures. 



Sahuaro Slope, Southwest Side of the Tucson Mountains, Pima County, 

 Arizona. — July 25. After crossing the Tucson range the Sonora trail 

 descends the extensive and gentle southwestern slope of the mountains 

 through a numerous growth of sahuaro or giant cactus {Cereus gi- 

 ganteus), with attendant greasewood {Covillea tridentata) bushes grow- 

 ing thickly and often to a height of over six feet. Many other plants 

 flourish, the intervening ground between them being usually quite 

 bare, as is often the case in this desert country. On the grease- 

 wood in this situation Ligurotettix was very plentiful and its faint 

 stridulation was to be heard on every side. Most of the collecting 

 was done at an elevation of about 2,500 feet. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Near Sonora Road, Southwest of the Tucson Mountains, Pima County, 

 Arizona. — July 25. Several miles from the Tucson Mountains col- 

 lecting was carried on for a short time in a grassy area with occasional 

 bunches of rabbit- weed. In this locality Orthoptera were found to be 

 far more plentiful than on the surrounding more truly desert plain. 

 Among the species taken were Psoloessa texana, Encoptolophus sub- 

 gracilis, Tomonotus aztecus, Trepidulus rosaceus, Trepididus melleolus, 

 Derotmema laticinctum and Hesperotettix festivus. 



Roehle's Ranch, near Coyote Springs, Pima County, Arizona. — July 24 

 and 25. This locality is in the lower level of a plain stretching from 

 the Tucson to the Comobabi range, near a large arroyo known as Roeble's 

 Wash. It is in a uniform mesquite and rabbit- weed region, with no 

 striking difference in conditions for a number of miles to the northeast. 

 Two specimens of Trepidulus melleolus were the most interesting 

 forms taken. 



Yuma, Yuma County, Arizona. — Elevation about 150 feet, July 27 

 and 28. To the east of Yuma the desert stretches, broken by occa- 

 sional low volcanic hills, where it is too hot for even the greasewood 

 to thrive and desert Orthoptera are almost wholly absent. Along the 

 Colorado River, however, is a wide strip of willows, and back of these 

 ground heavily overgrown with arrow-wood (Plv^hea sericea) and 

 other reeds where collecting was more productive. These, although 

 so near the river, were nevertheless parched with the heat. To the 

 east along the Gila River a great expanse of high weeds was found, 

 but so dry that many fell to pieces when touched and insect life was 

 extremely scarce. In the irrigated tract below Yuma Orphulella 

 compta was very abundant. In the town at night Gryllidse and thou- 

 sands of beetles and other insects swarmed around the arc lights. All 

 of these Gryllids flew rapidly about, and would have been difficult to 

 capture had they not come to the light dazed and confused. 



Williams, Coconino County, Arizona. — Altitude, 6,748 feet. Sep- 

 tember 13, The little collecting done here was accomplished near the 

 station in a field of short weeds and grass, and also near the pine 

 "glades" as they may be called. The whole country about Williams 

 is on nearly the same plane but gently rolling. Over this area pines 

 were thickly scattered, underneath which was practically no under- 

 brush but very green grasses, this vegetation imparting to the whole 

 country a park-like appearance. In the vacant field, where the weeds 

 were more abundant than elsewhere, Orthoptera were found more 

 plentiful than we had expected to find them at this elevation. 



Anita, Coconino County, Arizona. — Altitude about 6,500 feet. Sep- 

 tember 11. At this small station, between W^illiams and the Grand 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Canyon, but very little time was allowed for collecting. It is in the 

 midst of the pine ''glades," and, no town being located there, the few 

 specimens taken are typical of the park-like country on the top of 

 the Coconino plateau. The country was in general the same as that 

 outside the town of Williams. 



Grand Canyon of the Colorado, Coconino County, Arizona. Rim of 

 the Canyon at Bright Angel and 7iam7^/.— Elevation, 6,800-7,000 feet. 

 September 1 1 . Back from the edge of the canyon the country is rolling 

 and covered with a forest of pines, under which in most places there is 

 practically no vegetation or soil on the sheet of rock forming the top 

 layer of the plateau. 



In this country collecting was almost utterly without result, but 

 along the edge of the canyon, and for a short distance back from it, 

 better results were obtained. An area to the southeast of the hotel 

 was also found where there was some low vegetation under the pines 

 and in this situation Ageneotettix curtipennis and Amphitornus nanus 

 were taken. 



The Bright Angel TrazY.— Altitudes, 6,866 -2,436 feet. September 12. 

 For some distance on this trail the collecting proved to be much as at 

 the edge of the canyon, but farther down at about 5,850 feet the canyon 

 side became more open, a few junipers appeared and the open places 

 were filled with thickets and grasses. It was here (5,800-4,900 feet 

 ■elevation) that Melanoplus canonicus and Syrbula modesta were not 

 imcommon, but more or less difficult to capture owing to the extreme 

 steepness of the location. Farther down (elevation 4,350-3,900 feet) 

 in the grassy valley above the Indian Garden Spring, it was surprising 

 to note that, in spite of the difference of three thousand feet in elevation 

 and the more grassy country, practically the same forms as those 

 occurring at the top of the canyon were found. In the garden of the 

 Indian Spring House one Paratettix toltecus was taken. Diligent 

 search failed to disclose more than two specimens of Orthoptera on the 

 wide canyon mesa (3,700-3,800 feet) which was covered with a sage 

 and occasional patches of prickly pear. The Trimerotropis vinculata 

 was among sage, while the Paropomala perpallida was captured on the 

 very brink of the canyon precipice (elevation 3,750 feet) in a scant 

 bunch of a sort of wdre-grass. 



BLATTID^. 

 PEEIPLANETA Burmeister. 

 Teriplaneta amerioana (Linnsus). 



A female of this species was taken at Tucson, July 23, and a male at 

 Yuma, July 27, attracted to light in both cases. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



369 



This widely distributed species has previously been recorded from 

 Arizona at Yuma, Nogales, Florence and Phoenix. 



HOMOaOGAMIA Burmeister. 

 Homoeogamia erratica Rehn. 



A single male of this species was attracted to light at Yuma, July 27. 



MANTIDJE 



YERSINIA Saussure. 

 Yersinia sophronica^ n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, Pima County, 

 Arizona, altitude 3,000 feet. July 25, 1907. Collected by Hebard 

 and Rehn. 



This very peculiar species differs from Y. solitaria Scudder from the 

 eastern slope and foothills of the Rocky Mountains, western Nebraska 

 and southeastern Arizona in the smaller size, the more compressed 

 head with strongly acute mammiform eyes which are hardly at all 

 divergent and in the shorter cephalic limbs. In the form of the head 

 and eyes this species suggests the structure found in the African and 

 Indian genera Episcopus and Parepiscopus. 



Size small; form very slender; surface smooth. Head strongly com- 

 pressed ; occiput strongly concave, rounded ; 

 interantennal region with a pair of median 

 parallel longitudinal carinse which termi- 

 nate dorsad in short sharp points before 

 reaching the dorsal line of the head; 

 antennae filiform, not quite equal to the 

 pronotum in length; eyes very elongate, 

 not divergent, subparallel, strongly pro- 

 duced mammiform. Pronotum rather 

 short, subequal in width without any 

 marked supra-coxal dilation, the width 

 contained nearly three times in the 

 length; cephalic margin rounded, caudal 

 margin truncate; median carina distinct 

 throughout, but very delicate on the collar. 

 Mesonotum and metanotum httle ex- 

 panded, with distinct median carina, no 

 vestiges of tegmina or wings. Abdomen 

 subfusiform, a finely marked median 

 carina present throughout its length, 

 distal third quite narrow ; supra-anal plate 

 trigonal ; subgenital plate rounded with a median incision dividing it into 



Fig. 1. — Yersinia sophronica 

 n. sp. Dorsal view of type. 

 (X 5.) 



1 l,cj(t>pnviKT/, discreet. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEIVIY OF [July, 



two lobes; cerci damaged. Cephalic coxse about two-thirds the length 

 of the pronotum and not extending caudad of the same; cephalic 

 femora slightly longer than the coxae, quite robust, external margin 

 armed with six short . irregularly placed spines, internal margin with 

 eleven spines, the majority of alternating sizes, largest 

 discoidal spines quite robust; cephaUc tibiae very 

 slightly less than half the length of the femora, armed 

 W-^r/ 1 ^^ ^^^® external margin with eight spines, internal 

 \\\lj[ I margin with about seven spines, terminal claw large; 

 cephalic metatarsi about as long as the tibiae, slender, 

 remaining tarsal joints about equal to the metatarsi 

 Fig, 2. — Yersinia "^ length. Median hmbs rather short, femora very 

 sophronican.sTp. slightly expanded proximad. Caudal limbs mod- 

 head. (x^O.) erately slender ; femora reaching to the apex of the 

 fifth abdominal segment, distinctly but slightly in- 

 flated in the proximal two-thirds ; tibiae equal to the femora in length, 

 very slender; caudal tarsi short. 



General color cinnamon-rufous, darkened on the dorsum of the 

 head and the median area of the pronotum; median line of the abdomen 

 Vandyke brown. Face burnt umber except antennae and mouth parts 

 which are pale ochraceous. Apex of abdomen washed with broccoli 

 brown, the tips of the terminal plates ochraceous. Limbs ochraceous, 

 tending to ochraceous-rufous on the median and caudal femora and 

 dorsal edge of cephalic femora. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, '. . 14 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.2 " 



Length of cephalic femur, 2.6 " 



Length of caudal femur, 5.7 " 



The unique type was found running actively about among the stones 

 of a bare hillside. 



LITANEUTRIA Saussure. 

 Litaneutria skinneri Rehn. 



A male specimen from the Grand Canyon, altitude 7,000 feet, Septem- 

 ber 11, 1907, belongs to this species, while another male, not quite 

 mature, from Tucson, July 26, is referred to it with some little doubt. 

 The Grand Canyon male has the tegmina slightly shorter than the 

 typical individuals of that sex, while the blackish tegminal maculation 

 of the type is absent. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



PSEUDOSERMYLE Caudell. 

 Pseudosermyle truncata Caudell. 



Two male specimens of this species taken at Palmerlee, Huachuca 

 Mountains, Cochise County, July 9 and 16, by Mr. H. Kaeber have been 

 examined. The species is now known to range from the Grand Canyon 

 region south at least to the southern boundary of the Territory and west 

 to southern California. The localities from which it has been recorded 

 are Dos Cabezos, Bright Angel, San Bernardino Ranch and the Hua- 

 chuca and Santa Rita Mountains. 



ACRIDID^. 

 PARATETTIX Bolivar. 

 Paratettix toltecus (Saussure). 



At Tucson two females of this species were taken on July 26, and a 

 single female was collected by Hebard at 3876 feet elevation on the 

 Bright Angel Trail, Grand Canyon, September 12. These individuals 

 were taken on damp ground near water. All three specimens have 

 the apex of the pronotum failing to reach the tips of the caudal 

 femora. 



MERMIRIA St&l. 

 Mermiria texana Bruner. 



A female specimen of this species taken at Palmerlee, Huachuca 



Mountains, Cochise County, July 6, by Mr. H. Kaeber has been examined. 



PAROPOMALA Scudder. 

 Paropomala acris n. sp. 



Type : cJ* ; Railroad Pass, Cochise County, Arizona, altitude 4,386 

 feet. July 23, 1907. (Hebard and Rehn.) 



This species differs from the previously known species of the genus 

 in the following particulars : from cylindrica and calamus in the much 

 shorter subgenital plate and longer tegmina; from pallida in the 

 slenderer form and more acute fastigium; from dissimilis and virgata 

 in the more produced head, the more acute fastigium and the more 

 elliptical eyes. 



Size rather small; form elongate, very slender. Head with the 

 dorsum slightly longer than the dorsum of the pronotum, occiput 

 hardly elevated, very shghtly arched, fastigium and interocular region 

 horizontal; interocular region slightly narrower than the greatest 

 width of the fastigium; fastigium longer than broad, distinctly acute- 

 angulate in shape with the immediate apex well rounded, surface of the 

 fastigium with a circular impression covering about two-thirds the 

 circumference of a circle; eye elongate-ovate; angle of face considerably 

 retreating, the interantennal region with the angle less acute and 




372 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July 



Fig. 3.~-Paropomala acris n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 4.) 



joining the fastigium in a distinctly but not greatly acute angle, 

 frontal costa narrow, gradually and slightly but rather irregularly 

 expanding caudad, strongly sulcate from the fastigial angle to the 

 clypeus; lateral foveolae broad linear, shghtly arcuate, distinctly 

 impressed; antennae exceeding the head and pronotum by about the 

 length of the fastigium, distinctly ensiform, tips very slender. Pro- 

 notum very slightly constricted mesad, the caudal width of the disk 

 contained about twice in the length; cephalic margin of the disk 

 irregularly arcuate, caudal margin of the disk regularly arcuate; 

 median carina distinct throughout its length, 

 not high ; prozona nearly half again as long as 

 the metazona, metazona deeply punctate, lateral 

 lobes distinctly longer than deep, ventral margin 

 nearly straight, cephalic margin straight oblique, 

 metazona of the lateral lobes punctate. Tegmina 

 exceeding the tips of the caudal femora by very 

 slightly more than the length of the fastigium 

 and falling very little short of the tip of the sub- 

 genital plate, in shape very narrow with the apex 

 narrowly rounded. Prosternum with a low blunt 

 process. Interspace between the mesosternal 

 lobes very narrow and apparently divided mesad 

 by the lobes which are subcontiguous at that 

 Fie 4—Paropomala point; metasternal lobes contiguous. Supra-anal 

 acris n. sp. Dorsal plate acute-trigonal, arched transversely, slightly 



u 1 1 i n e of 



(X 4.) 



head 



flattened dorsad; cerci simple, styliform, very 

 slightly arcuate ventrad, reaching nearly to the 

 apex of the supra-anal plate ; subgenital plate moderately compressed 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



acute-angulate in outline when viewed from the side, apex well rounded, 

 the dorsum of the plate with a median longitudinal lamellate carina. 

 Cephalic and median limbs very short. Caudal femora half again as 

 long as the head and pronotum together, compressed, moderately 

 slender; tibiae very slightly shorter than the femora, armed on the 

 external margin with fourteen spines. 



General color dorsad and ventrad salmon, a chalk-white bar on each 

 side extending from the caudal and ventral margin of the eye over the 

 entire gense, ventral half of the lateral lobes of the pronotum, pleura 

 and lateral face of the caudal femora. This white bar is bordered dorsad 

 by one of chocolate which is very narrow at the eye but gradually 

 expands to the middle of the pronotum, whence it as gradually contracts 

 until it is lost dorsad of the articulation of the caudal limbs. Another 

 narrow whitish line is present on each side of the head and prozona be- 

 tween the chocolate bar and the general color and a pair of lunate 

 bars of vinaceous-ruf ous are present on the occiput. Eyes tawny olive ; 

 antennae and face raw umber. Tegmina buff, humeral vein seal brown. 



Measureme7its. 



Length of body, 21 mm. 



Length of pronotum, '^ [[ 



Length of tegmen, 14 



Length of caudal femur, 9.8 '' 



The type is the only specimen of the species examined and was taken 

 on the desert summit of the Pass, among mesquite bushes and dry grass. 

 Paropomala perpallida n. sp. 



Type: c^; near Bright Angel Trail, elevation 3,750 feet. Grand 

 Canyon of the Colorado, Coconino County, Arizona. September 12, 

 1907. Collected by M. Hebard. 



This species is closely related to P. pallida Bruner from the Salton 

 Basin, California and southwestern Arizona, differing in the consider- 

 ably smaller size. 



Size small; form moderately slender (for the genus). Head very 

 slightly longer than the dorsum of the pronotum; occiput and inter- 

 ocular region regularly but not strongly arcuate from the pronotum 

 to about the middle of the fastigium; interocular region very slightly 

 narrower than the greatest f astigial width : fastigium slightly longer than 

 broad, lateral margins acute-angulate but with the apex very broadly 

 rounded, impressed pattern on the disk of the fastigium semicircular; 

 face very considerably retreating, interantennal region with the angle 

 much less acute and very narrowly rounding into the fastigium, 

 frontal costa subequal in width to below the median ocellus whence it 




374 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Fig. 5. — Paropomala perpallida n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 5.) 



regularly but not greatly expands to the clypeal suture, sulcate through- 

 out its length ; eyes narrow-ovate, moderately prominent when viewed 

 from the dorsum; lateral foveolse sublanceolate, slightly arcuate, deeply 

 impressed; antennae about three times the length of the pronotum, 

 slightly depressed and expanded proximad, tips very slender. Pro- 

 notum with the caudal width of the disk contained slightly less than 

 twice in the length of the disk ; cephalic margin of the disk subtruncate, 

 caudal margin arcuate with the median portion some- 

 what flattened; median carina distinct but low, 

 prozona slightly more than half again the length of 

 the metazona, the latter on the dorsum and lateral 

 lobes thickly but shallowly punctate; lateral lobes 

 slightly longer than deep, ventral and cephalic mar- 

 gins obliquely sublinear. Tegmina reaching to the 

 apex of the subgenital plate, narrow, apex truncato- 

 rotundate. Mesosternal lobes separated by a very 

 narrow space; metasternal lobes attingent. Sub- 

 genital plate slightly compressed, apex very slightly 

 rostrate. Cephalic and median limbs very short. 

 Caudal femora failing to reach the tips of the tegmina 

 by more than half the length of the pronotum, mod- 

 mala perpallida erately slender, compressed ; caudal tibiae slightly 



n. sp Dorsal shorter than the femora, external margin armed with 



outbneof head. . . , 



(X 5.) tmrteen spmes. 



General color cream-buff with a barely appreciable 



greenish tinge. Dark lateral bars vandyke brown, gradually expanding 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



on the head, continued over the lateral lobes and pleura, suffusing 

 the base of the costal field of the tegmina and coloring the proximal half 

 of the discoidal and humeral veins of the same and the dorsal half of 

 the proximal abdominal segments. Wliite lateral bars as in P. acris, 

 but not present on the caudal femora. Eyes clay color marbled with 

 bistre; face and mouth parts sprinkled with small spots of brown; 

 antennae tawny, darker proximad. Caudal femora of the general 

 color with the dorsal half of the lateral face pale vinaceous bordered 

 ventrad by a line of dots of brownish. 



Measure77ients. 



Length of body, 16.2 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 11 



Length of caudal femur, 8 



The type specimen is the only one examined by the authors. It 

 was taken on the extreme edge of the canyon plateau and was found 

 clinging to a wisp of dry grass, the only vegetation along the extreme 

 edge of the plateau above the trail. 



SYRBULA st&i. 

 Syrbula fuscovittata Thomas. 



At Tucson on July 26 two males and three females of this species 

 were taken from high weeds growing in damp soil surrounding a pool. 

 An immature female was also taken in Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson 

 Mountains, July 25. 



One of the males is in a condition similar to that of the specimen of 

 the same sex recorded by Rehn.^ Two of the females are in the green 

 phase and the other in the brown phase, with, however, much very 

 pale green on the face and sides of the head, lateral lobes of the pro- 

 notum, tegmina and caudal femora. The males are smaller than the 

 average of a series of eight from the Huachuca Mountains. 



Syrbula modesta Bruner. 



This rather diminutive species was taken at elevations ranging from 

 4,900 to 5,800 feet in the Grand Canyon, three males and two females 

 being included in the series. Apparently this species has two color 

 phases, as all the specimens seen are in a brown phase of coloration, 

 while Bruner's original description shows that his specimens had green 

 or greenish the predominating color. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 32. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July 



As far as known this species is found only in the Grand Canyon 

 region. The males of this form, instead of flying straight from one 

 place to another, rise usually very swiftly in a curve which, on account 

 of their size and coloration, makes them very hard to follow. The 

 females rely almost altogether on their powerful saltatorial ability. 

 Often in alighting the males would select the terminal twigs of a juniper 

 as resting places. In distribution it appeared to be very local. 



BOOTETTIX Bruner. 

 Bootettix argentatus Bruner. 



This very interesting species was taken at several localities and 

 always on its favorite shrub, the greasewood (Covillea tridentata). 

 At Yuma on July 27 it was found to be numerous and seven males 

 were taken; an immature individual was collected at Sentinel, July 27. 

 An adult male and an immature specimen were taken on the 

 Sahuaro slope southwest of the Tucson ]\Iountains, July 25. 



All the specimens collectq^l lack decided spots on the sutural margin 

 of the tegmina, and even traces are present in only one individual. 



AMPHITORNUS McNeill. 

 AmpMtornus nanus n. sp. 



Type : d^ ; Grand Canyon of the Colorado, Coconino County, Arizona, 

 altitude 7,000 feet, in conifer forest. September 11, 1907. Collected 

 by Morgan Hebard. 



Closely related to A. ornatus McNeill, but differing in the very small 

 size (length of body 14.5 mm.) and the shorter tegmina which hardly 

 surpass the tips of the caudal femora. 



Size quite small; form as usual in the genus. Head very slightly 

 shorter than the dorsum of the pronotum, occiput and interocular 

 region regularly but slightly ascending to the fastigium; interocular 

 region but little narrower than the greatest fastigial width ; fastigium 

 slightly acute-angulate, the immediate apex narrowly rounded, 

 median carina distinct on occiput, interocular region and fastigium, 

 very low except on the fastigium; face considerably retreating, inter- 

 antennal region rounding to the subrectangulate junction with the 

 fastigium ; frontal costa moderately broad and subequal to a very short 

 distance ventrad of the ocellus, considerably broader and subequal 

 thence to the clypeal suture, for its entire length depressed within its 

 margins and punctate; eyes subacute-ovate, hardly prominent when 

 viewed from the dorsum; lateral foveola distinct, impressed caudad; 

 antennae about equal to the head and pronotum in length, rather 

 robust, slightly depressed proximad, tips bluntly acuminate. Pro- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



notum with the disk about half again as long as the greatest caudal 

 width of the same; cephalic margin of the disk subtruncate, caudal 

 margin very obtuse-angulate ; median carina moderately elevated, 

 accessory carinse distinct and parallel with but weaker than the median 

 one; lateral lobes slightly longer than deep. Tegmina exceeding the 

 abdomen by slightly less than the length of the eye and very slightly 

 surpassing the tips of the caudal femora; apices of tegmina rounded; 

 intercalary vein absent. Interspace between the mesosternal lobes 

 subquadrate, but little narrower than one of the lobes; metasternal 

 lobes subattingent caudad. Subgenital plate blunt, somewhat 

 compressed dorsad. Caudal femora shghtly more than three times 

 the length of the pronotum, of medium build ; caudal tibisG considerably 



Fig. 7. — Amphitornus nanus n. sp. Lateral Adew of type. (X 5.) 



shorter than the femora, armed on the lateral margin with eleven to 

 twelve spines. 



General colors vandyke brown, seal brown and pinkish white. A 

 narrow line of white extends from the caudal margin of the eye obhquely 

 ventro-caudad to the pronotal margin, thence transversely across the 

 lateral lobe, curving somewhat ventrad at the caudal margin. An- 

 other whitish line extends from the base of each antenna as a narrow 

 line bordering the ventro-cephalic and ventral border of the eye, 

 broadening and extending diagonally across the gena to the ventro- 

 caudal angle of the same, reappearing again as a moderately wide 

 white ventral border to the lateral lobe, separated from the one dorsad 

 of it by a wider bar of seal brown, and vanishing dorsad of the insertion 

 of the median limbs. Head with the dorsal surface, sides and face 

 seal brown, aside from the white bars mentioned above and a bar of 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



mars brown extending from the dorso-caiiclal margin of the eye to the 

 caudal margin of the pronotum, margining the disk on the latter; eyes 

 and antennae walnut brown. Pronotum with the disk seal brown, 

 except for the area between the supplementary carinae which is choco- 

 late.' Tegmina vandyke brown, seal brown proximad in the region of 

 the humeral and discoidal veins; area between the mediastine and 

 humeral veins proximad with a bar of whitish. Venter and abdomen 

 naples yellow, stippled on the sides and apex of the abdomen with 

 brownish. Cephalic and median limbs thickly sprinkled with walnut 

 brown on a paler ground. Caudal femora with the dorsal half with 

 ecru drab as a base color, ventral half straw yellow, genicular region 

 seal brown, bar at a third the length from the tips seal brown, distinct 

 and solid dorsad, weak ventrad; dorsal face with the proximal half 

 washed with seal brown and the dorsal half of the lateral face 

 clouded with one extensive proximal maculation and a smaller median 

 one. Caudal tibiae glaucous blue, blackish at the genicular region and 

 pale between this and the glaucous portion, spines with their distal 

 halves black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 14.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.7 " 



Length of tegmen, 11.5 



Length of caudal femur, 8.7 " 



The unique type "v^as found on ground devoid of vegetation but 

 covered with needles in the dense pihon and juniper forest. No other 

 Orthoptera were noticed in this locality. 



ORPHULELLA Giglio-Tos. 

 Orphulella oompta Scudder. 



This species was exceedingly abundant at Yuma, on irrigated ground 

 along the Colorado River south of the town. On July 28 a series of 

 twenty-six males, sixteen females and two nymphs was taken. 



Of this series about half is in the green phase, while the remainder is 

 divided between a full brown phase and one possessing both green and 

 brown in its make-up — a mixed phase. Only one, a female, shows 

 any tendency toward purphsh on the tegmina, and in this case it is not 

 strongly marked. There is a considerable amount of variation in size 

 in both sexes, and also in the form of the angle and depth and extent 

 of the excavation of the fastigium. 



^ This bar is very faintly indicated on the head. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



379 



The records of this species show its main range to be over the lower 

 part of the Colorado Valley and adjacent Salton Basin, while the occur- 

 rence of it at San Bernardino Ranch, Cochise County, in southeastern 

 Arizona, in all probability, is due to the species following up the Yaqui 

 Valley from the Gulf of California section of ^lexico. 



HORESIDOTES Scudder. 

 Horesidotes papagensis n. sp. 



Type : 9 ; Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, Pima County, 

 Arizona, altitude about 3,000 feet, July 25, 1907. Hebard and 

 Rehn. 



Closely ahied to H. cinereus Scudder, with topotypes of which it has 

 been compared, but differing in the somewhat smaller size, blunter 

 fastigium, greater interspace between the eyes, less apparent lateral 

 foveolse, quite distinct and continuous intercalary vein and more 



-Horesidotes papagensis n 



Lateral view of type. 



robust and inflated and proportionately somewhat shorter caudal 

 femora. 



Size moderate; form distinctly compressed. Head slightly shorter 

 than the dorsal length of the pronotum, ascending on the occiput to the 

 vertex which is interocular, fastigium well rounded into the facial out- 

 line; interocular region subequal to the width of the fastigium, the 

 occiput and interocular region with a weak median and pair of closely 

 placed supplementary carinae; fastigium slightly broader than long. 




380 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



slightly Jacute-angulate with the apex blunt, surface but slightly de- 

 pressed in]^the form of a crescent; lateral foveolse entirely visible from 

 the dorsum, sublinear, slightly arcuate, not deeply impressed; face 

 moderately retreating; frontal costa regularly expanding ventrad, 

 sulcate and impressed for a distance ventrad of the ocellus, punctate 

 dorsad ; eyes somewhat acute-ovate, not very prominent when viewed 

 from the dorsum; antennae about as long as the head and pronotum, 

 depressed and slightly expanded proximad. Pronotum somewhat 

 constricted mesad ; cephalic margin of disk slightly 

 arcuate, caudal margin obtuse-angulate; median 

 carina distinct and well elevated, severed by the 

 transverse sulcus slightly caudad of the middle, 

 lateral carinse slightly less elevated than the 

 median, arcuate convergent on the cephahc third 

 of the disk, at a third the length from the cephalic 

 margin they are separated by a space but little 

 more than half that separating them at the cephaUc 

 margin, from which point of greatest proximity 

 they diverge in straight line to the caudal margin 

 where they are slightly more distant than cephalad ; 

 lateral lobes as deep as long, ventral margin 

 obtuse-angulate. Tegmina exceeding the apex 

 of the abdomen by about the dorsal length of the 

 head, narrow, tips rounded; intercalary vein dis- 

 Pig. 9.—Horesidotes tinct and continuous, at least distad; lobe on the 

 DOTsalvfewo^head costal margin small. Interspace between the 

 and pronotum. mesosternal lobes subquadrate, narrower than 

 ^^ '^ the width of one of the lobes; metasternal lobes 



subcontiguous caudad. Cephahc and median hmbs of medium build. 

 Caudal femora three times the length of the pronotum, rather robust; 

 caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora, armed on the external 

 margin with ten spines, internal spurs subequal. 



General dorsal color prout's brown, obscurely sprinkled and mottled 

 with Vandyke brown; general ventral color ochraceous-buff becoming 

 very pale yellowish on the abdomen. Head with the face and ventral 

 half of gense ochraceous-buff sprinkled with vandyke brown, mouth- 

 parts rufous ; eyes clay color mottled with vandyke brown ; antennae 

 rufous becoming olive-buff distad. Pronotum with the disk slightly 

 paler than the dorsal half of the lateral lobes, line between dorsal and 

 ventral color slightly below the middle of the lateral lobes, sinuate, 

 sharply defined ; an isolated bar of the ventral color is present dorsad 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



of the insertion of the caudal limbs. Tegmina of the dorsal color. 

 Cephalic and median limbs tawny, obscurely and imperfectly annulate 

 and marbled with darker. Caudal femora vinaceous-cinnamon, 

 marbled and washed with vandyke brown; caudal tibiae very pale 

 glaucous, becoming ochraceous proximad, entirely overlaid with fine 

 purplish-red mottlings, spines and spurs with their apical halves black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 21.2 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 " 



Length of tegmen, 17.6 " 



Length of caudal femur, 12.7 " 



The male specimen from Yuma County, Arizona, recorded by the 

 senior author* as Horesidotes cinereusl is seen on re-examination and 

 comparison with the recently acquired material to be nearer papagensis, 

 to which we tentatively refer it. 



The type of papagensis was taken among leaves under bushes on the 

 canyon bottom, and showed no inclination to leave the ground. 



SCYLLINA St&l. 

 Scyllina calida Bruner. 



One female specimen of this species was taken at Tucson, July 26, in 

 short grass growing about the end of a drain. Its movements were 

 quite awkward. 



The previous records of this species in the United States are from 

 San Bernardino Ranch, Cochise County, and Baboquivari Mountains, 

 Pima County, Arizona. 



PSOLOESSA Scudder. 

 Psoloessa texana Scudder. 



The series of specimens of the genus Psoloessa taken in Arizona in the 

 summer of 1907 numbers one hundred and six. After considerable 

 study of this and other material, the authors are under the necessity of 

 considering the four nominal species of this genus (texana, ferruginea, 

 maculipennis and huddiana) as one, for which they select the name 

 texana as it has page priority over ferruginea and maculipennis, 

 huddiana being of much later date. 



To some this may appear unwarranted as characters, such as the 

 angle of the face, proportions of the lateral f oveolse of the head and the 

 width of the fastigium, as well as the color pattern, have been used in 



* Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. PMla., 1904, p. 563. 

 25 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



keys to separate the "species," To present the reasons for creating 

 the synonymy clearly, it would be best to explain the methods used in 

 reaching the conclusions. The original descriptions of ferruginea, 

 maculipennis, texana and buddiana were tabulated in parallel columns, 

 and from the mass of material specimens which agreed as nearly as 

 possible with these descriptions were selected. The condensed diagnos- 

 tic characters of the four "species" are as follows : 



Typical buddiana. Whole dorsum uniform pale pinkish brown. 

 Lateral bars solid and well marked. Caudal femora with but a faint 

 indication of the dorsal bar at the terminal third. 



Typical ferruginea. Whole dorsum ochraceous with the usual mark- 

 ings on the dorsum of the metazona. Lateral bars broken. Caudal 

 femora with distinct bar at the terminal third. 



Typical maculipennis. Dorsum of the closed tegmina and pronotum 

 sprinkled with blackish quadrate or subquadrate spots. Lateral bar 

 with the remains less sharply defined than in ferruginea. 



Typical texana. Dorsum suffused with blackish. Tegmina black- 

 ish with the veins dark. Caudal femora with the dorsum of the 

 genicular portion black. 



The number of specimens of the total of one hundred and six which 

 appeared to be typical of these forms were: buddiana, three; ferru- 

 ginea, ten; maculipennis, nine; texana, three, while eighty-one or over 

 seventy-five per cent, were typical of none. Of this remaining series 

 twelve share characters of buddiana, ferruginea and maculipennis, sixty- 

 six characters of ferruginea and maculipennis and three characters of 

 maculipennis and texana. 



When compared with three Shovel Mount, Texas, females the Ari- 

 zona females differ uniformly in the narrower fastigium, which is 

 usually more deeply excavated or at least appears to be so. When 

 the Arizona series of both sexes is examined there is seen to be con- 

 siderable variation in both sexes in the width of the fastigium, irrespec- 

 tive of locality or color phase, and in the degree of constriction of the 

 lateral carinae of the pronotum. Careful examination of the selected 

 typical females fails to show any difference in the facial angle, and the 

 shape of the lateral foveolse is of such variability that no reliance can be 

 placed on this character. The long type of foveolse, supposed to be 

 peculiar to the texana form, can be duplicated in specimens picked 

 haphazard from the series of the other three types, and moreover the 

 dark texana has as much variability in the few specimens available of 

 the form as one needs to convince them of the variability of this char- 

 acter. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



From this evidence there appears but one conclusion to be drawn, and 

 that is to consider the different types forms of one species, as the 

 presence of a seventy-five per cent, intermediate series leaves open to 

 us only this solution or the most arbitrary allotment of this "mixed" 

 body. The latter course has nothing in its favor, as the definition of the 

 "species" would be a practical impossibility. 



The localities represented in the series at hand are Tucson, July 26, 

 four cJ*, twelve 9 ; Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, July 25, ' 

 one 9 ; near Sonora Road, southwest of Tucson Mountains, July 25, 

 seven d^, five 9 ; Roeble's Ranch near Coyote Springs, July 24 and 

 25, twenty-eight 6^, forty-eight 9 . Typical huddiana was taken at 

 Tucson, near Sonora Road and Roeble's Ranch, ferruginea at Tucson and 

 Roeble's Ranch, maculipennis at Tucson and Roeble's Ranch and 

 texana at Tucson and near Sonora Road. 



This insect appears to be the most difficult to capture of almost any 

 of the desert species encountered, this being due to its remarkable 

 protective coloration and to its great swiftness in springing into the air 

 and taking flight. It was by all odds the most plentiful and widely 

 distributed desert species collected. 



AGENEOTETTIX McNeill. 

 Ageneotettix australis Bruner. 



An adult male of this species was taken in Sonora Road Canyon, 

 July 25, and an immature female at Roeble's Ranch, the same date. 

 The mature specimen was captured on the rocky canyon side. 



Ageneotettix ourtipennis Bruner. 



A female specimen from Bright Angel, altitude 7,000 feet, Septem- 

 ber 11, is referred to this species. The tegmina are very short, not 

 more than one-third the length of the abdomen, and the caudal tibiae 

 have the proximal third ochraceous clouded and sprinkled with 

 fuscous. The original locality for this species was simply "Southern 

 Colorado," and in consequence this is the first definite record for the 

 species. 



The specimen was found on stony ground, among low plants in a 

 forest of pinon and juniper, where Amphitornus nanus was the only 

 other species of Orthoptera seen. 



ATJLOCARA Scudder. 

 Aalooara rufum Scudder. 



A single male of this species was taken in Sonora Road Canyon, 

 Tucson Mountains, July 25. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



LIGUEOTETTIX McNeiU. 

 Ligurotettix kunzei Caudell. 



This extremely interesting and peculiar species is represented by a 

 series of forty-five specimens taken at Tucson, July 26 (three d^, two 

 9 ), Sonora Road near Tucson Mountains, July 25 (twelve c?, five 

 adult ? , one immature 9 ), Roeble's Ranch, July 24 and 25 (eight c?, 

 one adult $ , one immature 9 ), Sentinel, Maricopa County, July 27 

 (one 6"), and Yuma, July 27 (three c^, eight 9 ). 



The Yuma specimens are as large as Tucson individuals and do not 

 seem to approach the smaller Californian L. coquilletti. In size the 

 whole series is fairly uniform, some slight individual variation being 

 noticed in both sexes. Average specimens from the localities repre- 

 sented in the collection measure as follows : 



Length of Length of Length of 



body. tegmina. caudal femora. 



Tucson, 18 mm. 16.8 mm. 9.7 mm. 



Near Sonora Road, . . 16.4 '' 15.2 '' 9 " 



Roeble's Ranch, . . . 16.5 " 16.1 " 9 " 



Sentinel, 16 '' 15.2 " 9.5 " 



Yuma, 17.5 " 16.7 " 10.2 " 



9 



Tucson, 24.2 mm. 22,4 mm, 12.5 mm. 



Near Sonora Road, . . 23.5 " 21.7 " 12 '' 



Roeble's Ranch, ... 22 " 20.8 '' 11.7 " 



Yuma, 24.5 '' 22 " 12.8 " 



In color there is a considerable amount of variation, all, however, in 

 conformity with the subdued color pattern of the insect. The most 

 peculiar variation is in the presence of blackish brown on the cephalic 

 half or more of the lateral lobes of the pronotum, and also on the pleura 

 accompanied by a suffusion of the gense. In its complete form this 

 phase is present in but one female from Yuma, in which the contrast 

 with the pale dorsum and caudal portion of the lateral lobes is very 

 striking, although suggested more or less strongly by a few, chiefly 

 males, from Tucson, Sonora Road and Roeble's Ranch. There is a 

 considerable amount of variation in the sprinkling and lining of the 

 dorsum of the pronotum and head and the tegmina with blackish brown, 

 this being, however, more noticeable in the females than in the males. 

 The Yuma specimens as a series and the Sentinel individual are paler 

 and more ashy than those from the vicinity of Tucson and the Papago 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



country, which may possibly be due to the increased aridity and 

 greater sunlight of southwestern Arizona when compared with the 

 Tucson region. The usual position of specimens on the main branches 

 of Covillea would allow reflected light to play a very important part in 

 color bleaching. 



At Roeble's Ranch and along the Sonora Road this species was 

 found chiefly on mesquite, where the insects clung tightly to the 

 twigs and trusted so far to their protective coloration that those taken 

 were cautiously approached with the hands and suddenly seized. If 

 not captured they sprang with agility to some other part of the bush 

 and often escaped completely. They stridulated frequently, a faint 

 sikk, sikk, sik-sik-sik. At Yuma the species was found on greasewood 

 (Covillea) and was extremely active and wary in spite of the frightful 

 heat. 



ARPHIA Stil. 

 Arphia teporata Scudder. 



Three males and a female taken on rocky desert hillside in Sonora 

 Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, July 25, belong to this species. They 

 are more thickly speckled and variegated with dark brown than a series 

 from Alamogordo, New Mexico, and all are faintly washed with reddish 

 brown. 



ENCOPTOLOPHUS Scudder. 

 Enooptolophus texensis Bruner. 



At Tucson along the Santa Cruz River on irrigated land this species 

 was found July 26 in moderate numbers. Eight males and six females 

 were taken, three of the females being in a green phase of coloration, 

 as previously noted in a Phoenix specimen,^ the green being on the head, 

 pronotum, dorsal face of caudal femora and to a certain extent on the 

 pleura, while another of the same sex is weakly greenish on the same 

 areas. The series exliibits an appreciable amount of variation in size, 

 particularly in the male sex. 



Enooptolophus subgracilis Caudell. 



A single female with rather short tegmina and wings, taken July 25 in 

 mesquite and rabbit-weed surroundings near the Sonora Road south- 

 west of the Tucson Mountains, is apparently referable to this species. 

 The wings, however, are faintly yellowish proximad, in this respect 

 resembling texensis. The measurements of this specimen are as follows : 



= Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 76. 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Length of body, 22.7 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 " 



Length of tegmen, 18.3 



Length of caudal femur, 11 



HIPPISCTJS Saussure. 

 Hippiscus corallipes (Haldeman). 



A single female of this species, taken at the east base of the Huachuca 

 Mountains, July 6, by H. A. Kaeber, has been examined. The species 

 has previously been recorded from that range by the senior author.^ 



DISSOSTEIRA Scudder. 

 Diisosteira Carolina (Linnaus). 



Three males and two females of this widely distributed species were 

 taken at Williams, September 13, while a single female was taken 

 September 11 at Bright Angel, Grand Canyon, elevation of 6,850 feet. 



TOMONOTUS Saussure. 

 Tomonotus ferruginosus Bruner. 



A pair of this species from Palmerlee, Huachuca Mountains, Cochise 

 County, Arizona, taken July 5 and 15 bj^ H. Kaeber, has been examined. 

 The range of this form includes localities from Southern California to 

 Fort Grant and the Huachuca Mountains, southeastern Arizona, and 

 from Phoenix, Arizona, to Uruapan, Michoacan, Mexico. 



Tomonotus aztecus (Saussure). ' 



A series of seven males and two females of this species were taken 

 July 25 near the Sonora Road, southwest of the Tucson Mountains, on a 

 flat covered with very low weeds with many bare spaces between. A 

 single male was also taken the same day at Roeble's Ranch. 



METATOR McNeill. 

 Metator pardalinum (Saussure). 



A single female of this species, taken at Williams, September 13, is 

 the first Arizona record of the genus and species. The specimen has 

 the disk of the wings scarlet and is inseparable from Colorado in- 

 dividuals. It was taken in an open place thickly overgrown with 

 rabbit-weed and other equally low vegetation. 



MESTOBEEGMA Scudder. 

 Mestobregma obliterata Bruner. 



A series of six males and ten females was taken at Williams, Septem- 

 ber 13. There is considerable variation in the length of the tegmina 



« Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 36. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



and wings in the females, while the same is true of the caudal femora. 

 The disk of the wings is lemon yellow in all the specimens and the 

 transverse bar is not distinctly marked. The caudal margin of the 

 disk and lateral lobes of the pronotum are distinctly colored with 

 yellowish in a few specimens, while the angle of the tegmina is lined 

 with the same in three specimens and with whitish in two others. 

 This species was found in the same situation as Metator pardalinum. 



TREPIDULUS McNeill. 

 Trepidulus rosaceus (Scudder). 



This very interesting species is represented by a series of twenty-nine 

 males and twelve females. The localities at which it was taken are 

 Tucson, July 26 (10 d", 9 ? ) ; near Sonora Road, July 25 (15 d', 2 9 ) ; 

 Roeble's Ranch, July 25 (3 c?, 2 9 ), and Yuma, July 28 (1 d"). In 

 size the series exhibits an appreciable amount of variation, while the 

 coloration shows all conditions of ashy washes and blackish speckling 

 and blotching, particularly on the dorsal aspect of the closed tegmina, 

 while the base color ranges in spots from ochre to seal brown. The 

 pale ventral portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum is, however, 

 sharply defined in every individual, and the two dorsal blotches on the 

 caudal femora are distinct in all but one female specimen. Attention 

 should be called to the fact that the Yuma individual is uniformly 

 more grayish than specimens from the Tucson region, the maculations 

 being sub-obsolete. 



This species was found in the same restricted locality along the 

 Sonora Road as Tomonotus aztecus and Trepidulus melleolus, where it 

 was moderately plentiful; at Yuma the single specimen encountered 

 was taken on a broad flat of high weeds which had been completely 

 dried by the extreme heat. It was found common among desert growth 

 at Tucson, on the outskirts of the Mexican section of the town. 



Trepidulus melleolus (Scudder). 



Two males from the vicinity of the Sonora Road, July 25, and two 

 males and a female from Roeble's Ranch, July 25, represent this 

 interesting species. It appears from the material in hand, five males 

 and two females, that there is a great amount of individual variation 

 in size in both sexes; the two females before us, one from Roeble's 

 Ranch, the other from San Bernardino Ranch, Cochise County, having 

 a considerable difference in size. The coloration is fairly constant in 

 character. 



This species enjoys a range from northeastern New Mexico (La 

 Trementina) to Pima County, Arizona. r 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



This striking form was taken on the desert plain in the two above 

 locahties where it was extremely scarce. 



DEROTMEMA Scudder. 

 Derotmema laticinctum Scudder. 



On the desert plains of the Papago country this species was collected 

 in numbers, a series of seventy-one males and thirty-three females being 

 before us. It was usually found on exposed areas of adobe soil and asso- 

 ciated with Psoloessa texana. The series is distributed as follows : Tucson, 

 July 26, twenty-seven males, eleven females (one immature) ; Sahuaro 

 slope, southwestern side of Tucson Mountains, July 24, one male; near 

 Sonora Road, southwest of Tucson Mountains, July 25, eighteen males, 

 fifteen females (two immature); Roeble's Ranch, July 24 and 25, 

 twenty-five males (one immature), seven females (two immature). 



This series is quite variable in the depth of coloration and in the 

 character of the maculations on the anal area of the tegmina. Some 

 specimens have three or four comparatively large blotches on this 

 portion of the tegmina, while others have the same region more or less 

 thickly sprinkled with small quadrate blotches. The fuscous bar on 

 the wing varies in intensity and considerably in extent. One speci- 

 men from Tucson has the bar very weak and of httle extent. 



The specimens from the Baboqui vari Mountains previously recorded by 

 the senior author as Derotmema delicatulum,^ prove on second examina- 

 tion and comparison with typical specimens of delicatulum to be this 

 species. The range of the species is now known to extend from the 

 west slope of the Organ Mountains of central southern New Mexico 

 to Phoenix, Maricopa County, and the Baboquivari region, Pima County, 

 Arizona. 



Derotmema delicatulum Scudder. 



This rather remarkable species is represented by four specimens, 

 two of each sex, taken at Sentinel, Maricopa County, July 27. The 

 very prominent eyes, very pale, in fact almost colorless, disk of the 

 wing and much reduced but conspicuous and well-defined transverse 

 blotch on the wing are sufficient to enable one to readily recognize the 

 species. The coloration is very pale, with the darker pattern well 

 defined and comparatively regular. 



The habitat of this form is the Mohave and Ymna deserts, ranging 

 from the western edge of the Mohave at Mohave and Lancaster, Califor- 

 nia, to at least Sentinel, Maricopa County, Arizona. The specimens 



^ Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 72. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



listed above were collected during a train stop in a most arid and 

 desolate location. 



Derotmema haydeni (Thomas). 



A series of five males and four females was taken at Williams, Sep- 

 tember 13 (two 6" , two 9 ), and Anita, September 11 (two c^, three ? ). 

 The disk of the wing is red in five specimens and yellow in four, regard- 

 less of locality. The series from Williams is more blackish than usual 

 in the species, while the Anita individuals are quite reddish. The 

 species has previously been recorded from Flagstaff. 



At Anita the species was common on reddish soil in an open field, 

 while at Williams it was taken in an open place heavily overgrown 

 with low vegetation. 



CONOZOA. Saussure. 

 Conozoa carinata Rehn. 



A series of five males and one female taken at Tucson, July 26, repre- 

 sent this species. These specimens are somewhat paler than the types, 

 while the males have the fastigium very slightly narrower than in the 

 female type. The female specimen has the metazona of the pronotum 

 abnormally humped, probably as the result of an injury. 



This species is now known to range from the Huachuca Mountains to 

 the Baboquivari range, north to Tucson. 

 Conozoa sulcifrons (Scudder). 



At Yuma this species was taken in numbers on July 26 and 27, a 

 series of twenty-one males and twenty-three females being secured. 

 When compared with a series from Grand Junction, Colorado, the 

 Yuma specimens are seen to average considerably larger. The Yuma 

 series is as a whole more warm brown in color, with the dorsal aspect 

 of the head, pronotum and anal field of the tegmina paler and more 

 uniform. 



The specimens from Florence and Phoenix, Arizona, referred to C. 

 acuminata with a query by the senior author^ belong to this species. In 

 size they are slightly smaller than Yuma individuals of the same sex. 



This was the most plentiful species found on the dry earth of the 

 river bed and along its banks. Although an active flyer no great 

 difficulty was experienced in capturing specimens. 



TRIMEROTROPIS StM. 

 Trimerotropis fascicula McNeill. 



A single female of this species was collected at light at Nogales, 

 August 13, 1906, by Dr. Calvert. 



« Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 567. 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



The specimens recorded by Snow^ from Oak Creek Canyon and 

 Humphreys Peak, Coconino County, Arizona, as this species prove, 

 on examination of individuals forwarded by Prof. Snow, to be T. 

 alliciens Scudder. The two forms, however, are very closely related. 

 Trimerotropis modesta Bruner. 



A female of this form taken on the rim of the Grand Canyon, near 

 Bright Angel, September 11, and a male taken at Williams, September 

 13, are in the collection. The specific validity of this form appears to 

 be rather questionable, as its relationship to T. citrina is so close that 

 it may be nothing more than a race of that species. 



Trimerotropis strenua McNeill. 



Two specimens of this species were taken at Tucson, July 26, at light. 

 When compared with Salt Lake Valley specimens they are seen to be 

 inseparable. Snow has recorded this species from San Bernardino 

 Ranch, Cochise County, Arizona. 

 Trimerotropis inconspioua Bruner. 



Three males of this species taken at Bright Angel, Grand Canyon, 

 6,880 feet to 7,000 feet, are before us. Two were taken July 29 to 

 August 2, 1906, by Calvert, and one on September 11, 1907, by Hebard. 

 Two specimens are identical in coloration with the tegminal bars decid- 

 edly blackish and strongly contrasting with the pale ochraceous base 

 color, while the other specimen is decidedly reddish, both bars and 

 base color. 



This species was described by Bruner from material taken at a 

 number of localities in the Grand River region of western Colorado, 

 this being the first record of the species from any locality outside of 

 that State. 



The specimen taken on September 11 was the only individual of the 

 species noticed and was captured in the forest of piiion and juniper. 

 Trimerotropis vinculata Scudder. 



This wide ranging species is represented by eighty-three specimens 

 taken as follows: Tucson, July 26, 27 d^, 18 ? ; Sonora Road Canyon, 

 July 25, 4 cJ*; Sonora Road near Tucson Mountains, July 25, 2 9 ; 

 Roeble's Ranch, July 24 and 25, 13 d', 4 9 ; Nogales, August 13 (at 

 light, Calvert), 1 d ; Yuma, July 28, 1 d" ; WiUiams, September 13, 1 6" ; 

 Bright Angel Trail, Grand Canyon, elevation 3,000-7,000 feet, July 29- 

 August 2 (Calvert), September 11 and 12 (Hebard), 3 c?, 9 9 . 



The specimens of the series present a considerable amount of varia- 



' Trans. Kansas Acad. Sci., XX, pt. 2, p. 37. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



tion in size and the usual modifications of width and characters of 

 tegminal bars, as well as differences in the general light base color. As 

 the variability of this species is almost endless, it is hardly necessary to 

 call attention to any types except one which is suffused with ochraceous- 

 rufous, represented by all the Sonora Road Canyon specimens and 

 faintly approached by one from Tucson, and a very dull type, repre- 

 sented by several from Bright Angel rim (7,000 feet) and the single 

 individual from Wilhams. Other specimens, however, from the rim 

 of the Grand Canyon at Bright Angel are of normal contrast, and one is 

 extremely contrasted with quite pale base color. 

 Trimerotropis cyaneipennis Bruner. 



A series of sixteen males and seven females of this species was taken 

 at elevations ranging from 3,800 to 7,000 feet on and in the vicinity of 

 the Bright Angel Trail, Grand Canyon, September 11 and 12. The 

 majority of the specimens are strongly washed with reddish, the greater 

 portion of these reddish specimens being from elevations not exceeding 

 5,000 feet, this being evidently due to a protective color modification 

 influenced by the reddish exposure of that portion of the canyon walls. 

 A few individuals possess a more strongly contrasted coloration; the 

 pale color being unsuffused and the bar groups darker. These speci- 

 mens are from 5,000 and 7,000 feet. On comparing this series with 

 that in the Academy collection I find that specimens from the northern 

 portion of Arizona, south at least as far as Prescott, have the disk of 

 the wings campanula blue in color, while individuals from the ranges 

 of southeastern Arizona (Huachucas, etc.) have the same area 

 glaucous blue. The difference is quite noticeable when the two types 

 are compared. This species makes at will a clatter similar to that of 

 Circotettix verruculatus. Especially when alarmed its flight is 

 extremely swift and erratic. It was not plentiful along the canyon 

 edge, but lower on the Bright Angel Trail it was found almost every- 

 where, most plentiful, however, about bare places near precipices. 



CIKCOTETTIX Scudder. 

 Circotettix undulatus (Thomas). 



A series of seven males and nine females taken near the rim of the 

 Grand Canyon at Bright Angel represents this species. Two males 

 and three females were taken July 29 to August 2, 1906, by Calvert, and 

 the remainder September 11, 1907, by Hebard. 



The sexes are of practically the same size, and the amount of indi- 

 vidual variation of the same character is slight in a series of thirty-six 

 specimens before us. The general color varies from a decidedly 

 blackish type to one distinctly dull reddish brown in general lone. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



The previous Arizona records of this species were from Oak Creek 

 Canyon and base of Humphrey's Peak, Coconino County. 



This form was not uncommon in the open yellow pine groves near 

 the hotel, while in other places it was very scarce. Individuals of this 

 species seem to be unable to fly without clattering. In the afternoons 

 it was not on the wing. 



HADROTETTIX Scudder. 

 Hadrotettix trifasciatus (Say). 



A single male of this species, collected by H. A. Kaeber, July 6, 1907, 

 on the plains at the mouth of Ramsay Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, 

 has been examined. 



ANCONIA Scudder. 

 Anconia Integra Scudder. 



At both Tucson and Yuma this species was encountered, five males 

 and two females having been taken at the former locality on July 26 

 and twenty males and two females at the latter on July 27 and 28. In 

 size there is an appreciable amount of variation in the male sex, the 

 four females being quite uniform. All the females and four of the 

 Tucson males are green; all the Yuma males and one Tucson male 

 are hoary white or pale ochraceous more or less thickly overlaid with 

 maculations of olive. Several of the brownish specimens are very pale 

 and but faintly maculate, while five are strongly marked, having the 

 pronotal decussate markings pronounced. The other brownish males 

 are more or less intermediate between the two extreme types. 



Tucson is the most eastern record for this species, the previously 

 published Arizona records being from Phoenix and Bill William's Fork. 



At Tucson this species was taken among high weeds both in damp 

 and dry locations. They were very wary and alert and when missed 

 flew for some considerable distance. A preference to alighting on 

 the ground when pursued rather than on weeds and bushes was ob- 

 served, though invariably first discovered among vegetation. At Yuma 

 it was found on the greasewood covered sand flats. 



HELIASTXJS Saussure. 

 Heliastus aridus (Bruner). 



This extremely variable species is represented by specimens taken at 

 Tucson (July 26, 3 9), Sonora Road Canyon (July 25, 2 d^, 1 ?, 

 1 nymph), Sonora Road near Tucson Mountains (July 25, 1 ? ) and 

 Roeble's Ranch (July 24, 1 6^, 1 9 ). There is a great diversity in the 

 size of the Tucson females, while the coloration is of the usual vari- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



ability. The three individuals from the Sonora Road Canyon are 

 distinctly suffused with reddish, the males very strongly so, while the 

 Tucson and Roeble's Ranch specimens have hoary white their most 

 conspicuous color tone. The Sonora Road specimen has as its general 

 tint the peculiar blue gray often seen in this species. 



This form was found to be a typical desert species, not noticed any- 

 where in numbers. 



PHKYNOTETTIX Uhler. 

 Phrynotettix magnus (Thomas). 



A pair of this species taken July 6 by H. A. Kaeber at Palmerlee and 

 an immature male taken in Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, 

 July 25, have been examined. 



The Palmerlee male is labelled "Found under manure." The 

 Sonora Road Canyon specimen was found on a rocky hillside. 



SCHISTOCERCA StM. 

 Scliistocerca vaga (Scudder). 



At Tucson four males and two females of this species were collected 

 July 26. One female is quite dark in color with strongly contrasted 

 pattern; the other of the same sex shows Uttle contrast and is pale 

 dull brownish. The specimens were found among wild sunflowers and 

 other high plants. In this situation indi\dduals were taken with far 

 greater ease than others previously seen on the desert. 

 Schistocerca venusta Scudder. 



A male and two females taken at Yuma, July 27 and 28, and a male 

 taken at Winslow, Navajo County, September 13, represent this 

 species. The Winslow specimen is more olive and less greenish than 

 the Yuma individuals. 



At Yuma a few specimens were seen in the dry stand of arrow-wood 

 on the banks of the Gila River. The species was very plentiful at 

 Winslow, in tall weeds about a water tank. 



CONALCEA Scudder. 

 Conalosea huachucana Rehn. 



A female of this species, collected at Palmerlee July 6 by Kaeber, has 

 been examined. 



HESPEKOTETTIX Scudder. 

 Hesperotettix festivus Scudder. 



A series of twenty-two males, twelve females and one nymph 

 represents this species. The localities are: Tucson, July 26, 1 d^, 1 9 ; 

 Sahuaro slope, southwest of Tucson Mountains, July 24, 1 d^ ; Sonora 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Road near Tucson Mountains, July 25, 13 c?, 9 ? , 1 nymph; Roeble's 

 Ranch, July 25, 1 9 ; Williams, September 13, 1 c?, 1 9 . 



In size but little variation is noticeable; the tegmina of the two 

 Williams specimens, however, do not exceed the tips of the caudal 

 femora. Five specimens from Sonora Road are decidedly brownish, 

 one strongly so, while all the others are shades of green, in a few cases 

 with a faint bluish tinge to the tegmina. Reddish pregenicular 

 annuli are indicated more or less strongly on the caudal femora of all 

 but three specimens, which latter are either in or approach the brown- 

 ish phase. The pale medio-longitudinal line on the pronotum is nar- 

 rower in the Williams specimens than in a number of individuals from 

 southern Arizona, 



This insect was one of the few species which was invariably found 

 on or near rabbit-weed. In the rabbit-weed tracts a number of speci- 

 mens were often found in one small clump of the weed. Relying on 

 its protective coloration the insect often sought shelter in the center of 

 the clump, but when frightened out of its retreat flew very swiftly 

 on almost all occasions to another bunch of the same plant. 



.ffiOLOPLTIS Scudder. 

 .ffioloplus tenuipennis Scudder. 



At Tucson this species was found in weeds growing along an irrigat- 

 ing ditch and a series of six males and three females was taken on July 

 26, while at Yuma a single male was collected on July 27. While 

 agreeing with the original description in all essential points the Tucson 

 individuals are decidedly larger than the type. The extremes of the 

 series measure as follows : 



Length of body, 17 



Length of pronotum, 

 Length of tegmen, . 

 Length of caudal femur, 



In color there is an appreciable amount of variation in the depth of 

 the bars and maculations, the specimens with the base color dull ochre 

 having the pattern more marked, while those with the same more 

 yellowish have the pattern weaker. The pink of the proximal two- 

 thirds of the caudal tibiae varies greatly in depth of color, being very 

 delicate shell pink in some specimens and solferino in others with inter- 

 mediates of various shades. 



This species was described from Fort Grant, Graham County, Ari- 

 zona, and has since been recorded from Bill William's Fork, western 

 Arizona. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



A single female in the Academy Collection was taken at Phoenix 

 (October 4, 1900; Kunze). 



.ffioloplus arizonensis Scudder. 



In the vicinity of Yuma this species was not uncommon, a series of 

 seven males, fifteen females and one nymph being taken July 27 and 28. 

 Among the high dry weeds on the flood plain of the Gila River fourteen 

 specimens were taken and a number of others seen; one specimen was 

 captured on the summit of a desert hill, one in cultivated alfalfa and 

 seven were taken at night under arc lights. 



There is a perceptible amount of variation in size, the length of the 

 tegmina being quite variable; no specimens, however, having these 

 members shorter than the type measurements, while the greater 

 majority have them much longer. The remarks made under ^Eoloplus 

 tenuipennis regarding color variation apply as well to this species, 

 though the paler specimens have the tegmina distinctly light grayish, 

 while in one specimen the pale color on the head and pronotum is 

 almost whitish. 



This species has been recorded from Fort Wliipple, Yavapai County, 

 Arizona, and the Mohave Desert, 



MELANOPLUS Stil. 

 Melanoplus flabellifer Scudder. 



A series of six males and seven females of this species was taken at 

 Williams, September 13. All are typical of flahellifer, showing little or 

 no tendency toward occidentalis or cuneatus. The coloration is quite 

 dark, the pattern much subdued. There is some variation in the 

 depth of the glaucous color of the caudal tibiae. This is the first 

 record of the species from Arizona. 



All of these specimens were taken in a field of low vegetation. The 

 insects were inactive as the dew was yet on the ground. The condi- 

 tion of a number of the specimens shows that their season was well 

 advanced. 

 Melanoplus herbaceus flavesoens Scudder. 



Two males of this form were taken at Yuma on July 28, one on 

 cultivated ground, the other on desert growth. 



The only previous record of this form from Arizona was from Bill 

 Wilham's Fork, Mohave- Yuma County, specimens from Phoenix being 

 intermediate between herbaceus and flavescens. 

 Melanoplus brownii Caudell. 



This species was abundant locally at Tucson, where a series of 

 twelve males and nineteen females were taken on July 26. In size 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julj, 



there is an appreciable amount of individual variation, the extremes 

 of the series measuring as follows : 



The coloration is quite uniform, only a few specimens being more 

 richly colored than the others, the caudal femora, however, being 

 some shade of glaucous in all the series instead of ''yellowish brown" 

 as originally described. 



The female specimen recorded by Rehn as M. canonicus? from 

 Florence, Arizona,^" and those of the same sex from the Huachuca range 

 recorded by him as M. flavidus^^ are referable to this species. The 

 absence of accompanying males was responsible for the erroneous 

 identifications. The Florence individual has since been compared 

 with the types of brownii. 



The range of this species now extends from Yuma up the Gila Valley 

 to Phoenix and Florence, southward to Tucson, the Baboquivari and 

 Huachuca Mountains. 



The species was found at Tucson, frequenting high weeds near water 

 and cultivated areas. 

 Melanoplus atlanis (Riley). 



A male and two females represent this widely distributed species, the 

 localities being Williams, September 13 (d"), Tucson, July 26 ( ? ), and 

 SonoraRoad near Tucson Mountains, July 25 (9 ). These specimens are 

 distinctly larger than eastern individuals of the species, a fact previously 

 noted by Rehn^^ in regard to Florence and Phoenix, Arizona, repre- 

 sentatives. The Sonora Road specimen has the coloration strongly 

 contrasted. 



Melanoplus aridus (Scudder). 



A very interesting series of this species was taken at localities in 

 northern Arizona, a region from which it was previously not reported. 

 Nine specimens from Williams, September 13, five males, four females, 

 average about equal in size to individuals from Florence, Arizona, and 

 are distinctly smaller than Scudder's measurements. Three males 

 and one female taken at Anita, September 11, show a further reduc- 

 tion in size, while a series of fourteen males and eleven females from 



10 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 572. 



" Ibid., 1907, p. 54. 



« Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 78. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 397 



the rim of the Grand Canyon at Bright Angel, September 11, are veiy 

 decidedly smaller than Scudder's measurements, some specimens 

 being hardly more than half the size given by him. The senior author 

 recently called attention^^ to the size variability of this species, citing 

 Huachuca Mountain individuals larger than the original measure- 

 ments. 



The coloration of the Grand Canyon series shows little yellowish, 

 having grays and gray-browns predominating, while the Anita and Wil- 

 liams specimens are somewhat brighter, though by no means as strik- 

 ingly colored as Florence, Arizona, individuals. The yellow of the 

 ventral surface is pure in some specimens and much soiled and washed 

 with red brown in others. 



At Williams and Anita this species was extremely common in the 

 grassy open glades of the pine forest, while at Grand Canyon it was the 

 most abundant species of Orthoptera and was found ever3Awhere in the 

 undergrowth of the heavier pine woods. It was noted to be a very 

 swift jumper, but a series was easily taken on account of its abundance. 

 Melanoplus femur-nigrum Scudder. 



This little known species is represented by a series of two males and 

 three females taken September 11 at the rim of the Grand Canyon at 

 Bright Angel. Here it was taken on an open hillside heavily over- 

 grown with a plant resembling rabbit-weed. 



The only previous record of this species is the original one from 

 San Francisco Mountains, July 30, but its range is more extensive as 

 witnessed by a female in the Academy Collection labelled "Albu- 

 querque, N. Mex., July 13, Oslar." It is quite probable that this 

 specimen was taken in the mountains near Albuquerque, as it is hardly 

 likely to occur in the distinctly Sonoran vicinity of the city. 

 Melanoplus femur-rubrum (DeGeer). 



A male of this species was taken at Winslow, Navajo County, 4,848 

 feet elevation, September 13. 



Melanoplus canonicus Scudder. 



A series of two males and seven females, taken September 12 along 

 or near the Bright Angel Trail, Grand Canyon, represent this species. 

 These specimens were taken at altitudes ranging from 4,850 to 6,800 

 feet, one female alone being from above an elevation of 5,800 feet. 

 The species was found only in scattered growths of pinon and juniper, 

 exhibiting a preference for the latter tree. Specimens were found 

 on the ground, in bushes and chnging to the twigs of juniper. 



13 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 51. 

 26 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



In size there is considerable variation in the series, all being smaller 

 than Scudder's original measurements. The extremes of the series in 

 hand are as follows : 



The distal portion of the furcula varies in the two males, being rather 

 slender in one and comparatively thick in the other. 



The majority of the specimens are strongly overcast with brownish, 

 sometimes with a decided olivaceous tinge, only one specimen being 

 "luteo-testaceous" as originally described. 



In addition to the original record from the Grand Canyon, this 

 species has been recorded from Bill Wilham's Fork by Rehn and from 

 Tucson by Snow. 



DACTYLOTUM Charpentier. 

 Dactylotum variegatum Scudder. 



A male and two females of this species, taken July 6 on the plains at 

 the east base of the Huachuca Mountains by H. Kaeber, have been 

 examined. 



TBTTIGONID^. 

 ARETHJEA St&l. 

 Arethaea sellata Rehn. 



A male of tliis species, taken at Palmerlee, Huachuca Mountains, July 

 15, by H. A. Kaeber, has been examined. 



SCUDDERIA Stai. 

 Scudderia furcifera Scudder. 



This species is represented by a male taken at Palmerlee, Huachuca 

 Mountains, July 6, by H. A. Kaeber. 



MICI10CENTRUM15 Scudder. 

 Miorocentrum rhombifolia^^ (Saussure). 



A single female of this species was taken at hght at Nogales, August 

 13, 1906, by Calvert. 



" Abnormally distended. 



" Kirby {Synon. Catal. Orth., II, pp. 4.55, 480) has transferred this generic 

 name to the genus usually known as Stilpnochlora Stal, and in its place for 

 Microcentrum of authors uses Orophus Saussure, 1859. For the type of the latter 

 he selects retinervis Burmeister (salicifolia Saussure), disregarding the fact that 

 Relm (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 808, March, 1906) some months 

 previously had selected mexicanus as the type of Orophus. In selecting a type 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



399 



G-RYLLID^. 

 NEMOBIUS ServiUe. 

 Nemobius neomexicanus Scudder. 



• This species was taken at light at Tucson (July 23, 1 9 ) and Yuma 

 (July 27 and 28, 3 9) and was decidedly scarce wherever it was 

 encountered. The Tucson specimen is appreciably larger than the 

 Yuma individuals. 



GRYLLUS Linnseus. 

 Gryllus personatus Uhler. 



At Tucson this species came to light in great numbers the evenings 

 of July 23 and 26, a series of twenty males and eighteen females being 

 collected. 



Size as usual exliibits a considerable range of variation, while several 

 males are of a strongly megacephalic type. 



As the proportions of the caudal femora and ovipositors and the 

 measurements of the tegmina may prove of use to future workers, they 

 are tabled below. 



Proportions of caudal femur and ovipositor in eighteen females from 

 Tucson. 



or. 



for Microcenfrum Scudder, Kirby has been confused by the synonymy of the 

 species and selected Steirodon thoracicus ServiUe as the t5^e, which was not 

 included in Microcentrum by Scudder; the latter's Microcentrum thoracicum 

 having been proposed independently, not being the same as thoracicus Ser\dlle or 

 thoracica Burnieister. Tliis is shown by lurby in his arrangement of the syn- 

 onymy; but in selecting Ins type he has overlooked it. In consequence it is 

 necessary to select as the type of Microcentrum a species originally included in 

 the genus and affiliatum Scudder (= rhombifolia Saussure) is so selected. This 

 is in accordance with Article 30 of the Revised International Code of Nomen- 

 clature. 



1^ This name must be used in place of laurifolium of authors ; laurifolium of 

 Linnseus, as shown by lurby {Synon. Catal. Orth., II, p. 456), being a Stilpno- 

 chlora. 




400 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Measurements of caudal femur, tegmen and ovipositor. 

 Females {eighteen specimens). 



Males (twenty specimens). 



The entire series of thirty-eight specimens is macropterous. 



There is considerable variation in the depth of the coloration, some 

 individuals having the head so much suffused with blackish that the 

 usual pale occipital lines are not visible. 



Gryllus armatus Scudder. 



This species came to light abundantly at Yuma on the evenings of 

 July 27 and 28, a series of nine males and forty-five females being 

 collected. A pair were also taken at Tucson, July 26, under the same 

 conditions. All the specimens collected are macropterous. 



To assist future workers in this difficult genus measurements taken 

 from the Yuma series are here given. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



401 



Proportions of caudal femur and ovipositor in forty-five Yuma females. 

 Ovipositor. 



While the head is blackish in all the specimens, the pronotum is 

 frequently quite reddish, in some individuals entirely so, which latter 

 type is connected with that having the pronotum solid blackish by a 

 considerable number of intermediates. 



It was astonishing to note the numbers in which this species came to 

 the arc lights, hundreds of them running about on the ground beneath 

 the lights or flying swiftly around in circles. 



MIOGRYLLUS Saussure. 

 Miogryllus pictus Scudder. 



At Yuma on the evenings of July 27 and 28 this species frequented the 

 vicinity of the electric lights in considerable numbers. A series of 




402 " " PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^ly, 



fourteen males and sixteen adult and one immature female was taken. 

 There is an appreciable but not very great variation in the size of 

 individuals of this species, while the coloration varies only in the 

 suffusion of the pronotal markings; some specimens having them 

 distinct and others having them clouded with a wash of the darker 

 color. The males without exception have the pronotum dark and 

 the pattern not apparent. 



This species was more agile than Gryllus armatus, with which it was 

 associated. 



(ECANTHUS Serville. 

 CEoanthus niveus (DeGeer), 



A single male of this species was taken near Bright Angel Trail, 

 Grand Canyon, at an elevation of about 4,900 feet, September 12. 

 It was taken from a weed resembhng rabbit-weed in the pinon zone. 

 (Eoanthus nigricornis Walker. 



A single male from the rim of the Grand Canyon at Bright Angel, 

 September 11, is referred tentatively to this species. The antennal 

 markings are not as complex as usual in the species, but the propor- 

 tions and general coloration are nearly typical. The individual was 

 captured stridulating at night on the species of weed referred to under 

 (E. niveus. 



(Eoanthus quadripunotatus Beutenmiiller. 



Four specimens taken at Tucson, July 23-26, are referred to this 

 species, one male, a female, attracted to light, and two immature 

 individuals. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



NOTES ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF COLORADO MAMMALS, WITH A DESCRIPTION 

 OF A NEW SPECIES OF BAT (EPTESICUS PALLIDUS) FROM BOULDER. 



BY ROBERT T. YOUNG. 



In the following article I propose (1) to discuss briefly the distribu- 

 tion of the mammals of the mountains of northern central Colorado 

 in their relation to the life zones of that region;^ (2) to point out the 

 apparent movement of some species relative to their centers of dispersal 

 and to give a few facts regarding the little known distribution of 

 certain forms in this State, and (3) to describe a new species of bat 

 from Boulder. 



(1) Distribution of mammals relative to the life zones of northern 

 central Colorado. 



In two recent papers by Ramaley^ and myself^ the life zones of the 

 Rocky Mountains in this region, as determined by the flora, have been 

 mapped out. Does the mammalian fauna of the mountains show the 

 same zonation as does the flora? 



The zones as outlined by Ramaley are as follows : 



1. Plains Zone, below 5,800 feet. 



2. Foothill Zone, from 5,800 to 8,000 feet. 



3. Montane Zone, from 8,000 to 10,000 feet. 



4. Sub-alpine Zone, from 10,000 to 11,500 feet. 



5. Alpine Zone, from 11,500 to 14,000 feet. 



The first of these not being a mountain zone may be omitted from 

 our discussion. The last four correspond to the zones which I, in 

 accordance with the terminology of Merriam* and others, have specified 

 as Transition 1,650-2,400 m., Canadian 2,400-2,850 m., Hudsonian 

 2,850-3,300 m. and Alpine^ 3,300-3,450 m.« 



^ Where the records for any species number very few, I have usually omitted 

 such species from this part of my discussion. 



^ Plant Zones in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado, Science, N. S., Vol. XXVI 

 pp. 642-3. 



^ Forest Formations of Boulder County, Colorado, Bot. Gaz., Vol. XLIV, pp. 

 321-52. 



* Life Zones and Crop Zones of the United States, Bull. 10, U S. Biological 

 Survey. 



^ Merriam applies the term Arctic-Alpine to this zone. 



^Ramaley's terminology, as apphed to this particular region, is perhaps more 

 desirable than that of Merriam; but for purposes of comparison -nith other regions, 

 and for the sake of uniformity, I much prefer the latter. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^^lj, 



While it is well known that an absolute delimitation of zonal areas in 

 mountain regions is impossible, whether plants or animals are chosen as 

 characteristics, still the zones as outlined above are fairly well defined 

 by their plant inhabitants. 



Of the mountain mammals of northern Colorado many range widely 

 from timber line to the plains, and, with a few exceptions, there are 

 none whose range is closely coincident with any one of the zones men- 

 tioned above. These exceptions are the following: Sciurus dberti 

 concolor, Citellus variegatus grammurus, Citellus elegans, Cynomys 

 leucurus, Peromyscus truei nasutus, Neotoma jallax, and Spilogale tenuis 

 in the Transition zone ; and Lepiis americanus bairdi, OcJiotona saxatilis 

 and Phenacomys preblei in the Hudsonian zone. 



The Canadian zone possesses no characteristic mammals. Species 

 ranging through both Hudsonian and Canadian zones, but mainly 

 restricted to them, are the following: Evotomys gapperi galei, Microtus 

 nanus, Gulo luscus, Mustela americana, Putorius streatori leptus and 

 Putorius arizonensis. 



Boreal species which include the Transition zone within their range ' 

 are as follows: Cervus canadensis, vis canadensis, Sciurus fremonti, 

 Eutamias am.oenus operarius, Eutamias minimus consohrinus^ Callo- 

 spermophilus lateralis, Marmota flaviventer, Neotoma orolestes, Microtus 

 mordax, Thomomys fossor, Thomomys clusius fuscus, Zapv^ princeps, 

 Erethizon epixanthus, Sylvilagus pinetis,^ Felis hippolestes. Lynx uinta, 

 Ursus americanus, Sorex ohscurus, Sorex personatus, and Neosorex 

 palustris navigator. Vidpes macrourus should probably be included in 

 this list, but as to its altitudinal limits I haA^e no definite information. 

 Sonoran species extending into the Transition zone are the following : 

 Odocoileus macrourus, Antilocapra americana. Mephitis mesomelas 

 varians and Putorius longicauda. 



Of general distribution through both Sonoran and Boreal regions may 

 be mentioned the following species : Odocoileus hemionus. Bison hison,^ 

 Eutamias quadrivittatus , Citellus tridecemlineatus pallidus. Castor cana- 

 densis jondator, Peromyscus nebracensis, Peromyscus rufinus, Microtus 

 pennsylvanicus modestus, Lepus campestris, Lepus townsendi, Canis sp.,^^ 

 Taxidea taxus, Lutreola, lutreocephala energumenos and Putorius nigripes. 

 Both the wild cat and timber wolf ought probably to be included under 



' Extends into the Sonoran. 



^ Also Sonoran to some extent. I have taken it 12 km. east of Boulder on the 

 hot barren plains. 



" Now practically extinct. 



'" The distribution of the different forms of coyotes through the mountains is 

 not 3^et kno-\vn. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



this last heading. I have omitted them, however, because I have no 

 information as to the species of each, and but little as to their distribu- 

 tion. 



Thus we find the Alpine zone with no characteristic mammals, the 

 Hudsonian with three, the Canadian with none and the Transition with 

 seven, while there are six Boreal species (Cervus occidentalis, Eutamais 

 m. consobrinus, Thomomys clusius fuscus, TJiomomys fossor, SyJvilagus 

 pinetis and Neosorex palustris navigator) and one Sonoran-Boreal form 

 {Eutamias quadrivittatus) which probably do not extend much above 

 the Canadian zone, and six which seldom if ever extend below it. In 

 addition to the seven species characteristic of the Transition zone, we 

 find this zone forming the lower limit of eighteen Boreal species and 

 the upper limit of four Sonoran forms. 



While the Alpine zone possesses many characteristic plants, on the 

 mammalian side it is characterized chiefly by the paucity of its fauna, 

 possessing not a single characteristic species. The Hudsonian and 

 Canadian zones have most of their mammals in common, while of the 

 three species characteristic of the former zone, Ochotona saxatilis^^ in- 

 vades the latter to some extent, while on the other hand it occurs in 

 the Alpine zone in suitable places. 



These facts bring out very clearly, I believe, the distinctness of 

 Boreal and Sonoran regions in northern Colorado, as" based on the 

 distribution of the mammals in this territory. The Transition zone 

 is, as its name imphes, a meeting ground of these two great regions, 

 common to, and yet distinct from each. They show further the inti- 

 mate relation between Hudsonian and Canadian zones. Using the 

 mammals only as a criterion, I hardly believe w^e should be justified in 

 separating these zones from each other; their characteristics are rela- 

 tively much fewer than among the plants. 



(2) The movement of some species relative to their centers of dis- 

 persal and notes on the httle known distribution of certain forms. 



The occurrence of a species outside its proper habitat does not 

 necessarily prove a migration on the part of that species from such 

 habitat. It may, on the contrary, mean that the species formerly 

 had a more widespread distribution than at present, becoming second- 

 arily restricted to its present habitat, with the exception of a few strag- 

 glers remaining in the territory formerly occupied by it. This is a 

 question which cannot, in most cases, be settled with our present lack 



" Warren, E. R. : The Mammals of Colorado, Colorado College Publications, 

 Science Series, No. 46, p. 254, mentions the coney as occurring as low as 2,834 m. 

 near Crested Butte. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [July, 



of data regarding the former abundance of the species in the region in 

 question. Where, however, a typical plains form, as Putorius nigripes 

 or Citellus tridecemlineatus pallidus, is found in the higher mountains, 

 I believe we are justified in concluding that they have migrated 

 outside of their proper habitat. 



Sciurus ludovicianus. 



This species is now quite common in the neighborhood of Greeley, 

 where I understand it has been introduced from Omaha. It is also 

 present in Denver. 



Citellus tridecemlineatus pallidus. 



The presence of this spermophile at Divide,^^ altitude 3,000 m., and 

 elsewhere in the mountains,^^ indicates a westward and upward move- 

 ment of this species from its center in the Great Plains, probably de- 

 pendent upon the presence of its physical habitat, the grass-sage- 

 brush plains in some parts of the mountains, rather than upon 

 temperature. 



Peromyscus nebracensis- 



This is another plains form of Upper Sonoran and Transition zones 

 which appears to be invading the mountains, judging by its occurrence 

 at an altitude of 3,508 m.^^ and elsewhere through the mountains. 



Phenacomys preblei. 



The only record hitherto of this species is that given by Merriam^^ 

 from Long's Peak. I have taken a single specimen on North Boulder 

 Creek at about 2,900 m. altitude. This is the only specimen I have 

 secured in spite of careful trapping in several places. 



Spilogale tenuis. 



I have taken a few of this species at Boulder, hitherto known only 

 from Arkins and Estes Park. 



Putorius nigripes- 



The occurrence of the black-footed ferret at an altitude of 3,124 m.^* 

 indicates a probable migration on its part from its habitat on the plains 

 into the mountains. 



" Fide Warren (op. cit., p. 242). 



'^ Bailey, V: The Prairie Ground Squirrels of the Mississippi Valley, Bull. 4,. 

 U. S. Biol. Survey, gives its western limits as approximately Twin Lakes. 



" Fide Warren (op. cit., p. 245). 



" Merriam, C. H. : Phenacomys preblei, a New Vole from the Mountains of 

 Colorado, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Vol. XI, p. 45. 



" Fide Warren (op. cit., p. 264). 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Putorius longicauda. 



This weasel invades the mountains also to some extent, as I have 

 observed it in Boulder Canyon several miles above its mouth. 

 Sorex personatus. 



The occurrence of this shrew in the Rocky Mountains as far 

 south as Colorado extends considerably southward in these mountains 

 the range of this northern and eastern form. Its presence in the 

 meadows about Boulder brings this Boreal species down to the edge of 

 the Upper Sonoran zone. 

 Sorex personatus haydeni. 



Warren^^ records a specimen of this shrew taken by him at Lake 

 Moraine and identified by Merriam. Inasmuch as haijdeni is a North 

 Dakota plains form its occurrence in the Hudsonian zone on Pike's 

 Peak is certainly interesting. Have we here a marked case of migra- 

 tion, a case of polygenesis, or is haijdeni, as Elliott^^ believes, a synonym 

 for personatusl 

 Sorex vagrans dobsoni. 



This is another interesting record given by Warren^^ and based on 

 an identification by Merriam. In iV. A. Fauna, No. 10, p. 68, the latter 

 gives the distribution of this shrew as parts of Idaho, Montana, Wyo- 

 ming and Utah. He says further in the same place: "The interrela- 

 tions of dobsoni and obscurus are intricate and perplexing. The two 

 animals resemble one another very closely, but no intergrades have 

 been found, and each has, so far as known, an independent distri- 

 bution." This record extends the range of dobsoni considerably 

 southward, making it coincident, at this point at least, with that of 

 obscurus. 

 Sorex obscuruB. 



Merriam^" gives the distribution of this species as "Restricted to 

 Boreal Zone." Specimens collected by me at Boulder extend its range 

 through the Transition zone. 



Corynorbinus maorotis pallescens. 



I have a specimen taken in Boulder Canyon at an approximate 

 altitude of 2,300 m., which shows an occasional invasion of the Transi- 

 tion zone by this supposedly Sonoran species. 



" Op. cit., p. 265. , , ... 



^^ Elliott D. G.: A Synopsis of the Mammals of North America and the Adja- 

 cent Seas, 'Field Columbian Museum, Zool. Ser., II, 1901, p. 367. 

 i» O-p. cit., p. 266. 

 ="> Op. cit., p. 72. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jl-^^y, 



Myotis lucifugus longicrus. 



The only Colorado record of this bat which I have found is one 

 by Miller^^ for Grand Junction. I have taken it at Steamboat Springs, 

 and have a badly mutilated skin from Eldora which is probably one of 

 this species. 

 Myotis evotis. 



The only Colorado record I have seen is one by Miller^^ from Loveland. 

 I have a specimen taken in the Yellow Jacket Mountains 21 km. east 

 of Steamboat Springs at an approximate altitude of 2,140 m. 



(3) Description of a new species of bat from Boulder. 

 Eptesicus pallidas sp. n. 



Type No. 142,526 9 ad., collection of U. S. Nat. Mus. Collected 

 by R. T. Young at Boulder, Colorado, July 22, 1903. 



Distribution. — Known from type locality only. 



Diagnosis. — Skull identical with that of Eptesicus fuscus. Size 

 largest of American species of the genus. (iVverage total length of 

 four specimens, all females, 124.)^^ 



Color palest of American species of the genus, distinctly lighter than 

 that of E. fuscus. 



Color. — Above brownish ashy, the basal half of hairs fuscous; 

 below pale silvery gray, the basal half of hairs fuscous, with a narrow 

 transition zone of brownish ashy between the inner and outer parts. 

 Dorsally and ventrally along the line of attachment, and on the surfaces 

 of the membranes, the basal fuscous zone of the hairs disappears. 



Measurements of Type. — ^Total length, 127; tail, 50; hind foot, 12. 

 Skull, occipito-nasal length, 19; interorbital constriction, 4; zygomatic 

 breadth, 13; upper tooth row, 8.5; palato-basi-occipital length, 15; 

 mandible (from condyle to symphysis), 14; lower tooth row, 9. 



Measurements (average of four females). — Total length, 124; tail, 

 49; hind foot, 12.'* Average of two females in alcohol: Ear from 

 crown, 13.5; tibia, 20.5 ; forearm, 49; thumb, 8; longest "finger," 80.5 ;25 

 width of ear, 11.5; tragus (from posterior angle), 8. Skull (average of 

 three specimens), ^^ 18,5, 4, 12.5," 8, 14.5, 13.5, 9. 



Remarks. — While conclusions based on so small a number of speci- 

 mens as I possess are necessarily uncertain, still I believe that, since 



^' Miller, G. S., Jr.: Revision of the North ^\nierican Bats of the Family Vesper- 

 tihonidae, N. A. Fauna, 13, p. 65. 

 22 Op. cit., p. 80. 

 2^ All measurements in mm. 

 2* Average of five specimens including one male. 

 2^ From tip to base of phalanges not including carpus. 

 2" Measiirements given in same order as those of the type. 

 2' Average of two specimens. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



specimens of Eptesicus fuscus from this region^^ have the color and size 

 typical of the species, the new form must be considered as a distinct 

 species and not merely a geographical race of fuscus. 



The probable origin of this species is a matter of some interest. 

 Occurring in the same territory and occupying the same habitat as 

 its near relative fuscus, neither the geographic isolation nor selection 

 theory seem to offer a satisfactory explanation. Neither the mutation 

 nor orthogenesis theory finds any difficulty in these facts. Moreover we 

 have here an apparent exception to Jordan's law of geminate species. 



Further information as to the distribution of this species is very 

 desirable.^^ 



In conclusion I wish to thank the authorities of the Field Museum, 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the U. S. National 

 Museum for the identification of much of my material; and the latter 

 institution especially for its loan of valuable material. 



^^ Loveland, fide Miller, op. cit., p. 98. A single skin without skull in my own 

 collection from Boulder Canyon, approximate altitude 2,300 m., has the typical 

 brown color of E. fuscus. 



^' Miller, op. cit., p. 99, says of fuscus: "Verj^ pallid specimens are occasionally 

 taken in the Southwestern United States, but the number of skins available for 

 comparison is so small that it is impossible to determine the status of the form 

 wliich these aberrant individuals represent." It is possible that these specimens 

 are representatives of my new form, but not having seen them I cannot saj^ 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



SOME EFFECTS OF ENVIRONMENT ON THE GROWTH OF LYMN^A 

 COLUMELLA Say.^ 



by harold sellers colton. 

 Table of Contents. 



PAGE 



I. Introduction 410 



II. Historical 411 



III. Materials 412 



Natural History 413 



Description of Dwarfs 414 



IV. Methods 415 



Precautions 416 



Measurements 417 



Description of Tables 418 



Analysis of Experiments 418 



V. Experiments on Growth of Lymnita 420 



1. Food: Water Plants...^ 420 



Effect of Sediment 423 



Effect of Fa?ces 425 



Other Effects of the Water Plants .' 425 



2. Aeration 425 



De Varigny's Experiment 426 



Willem's Experiment 426 



Effect of Surface Aeration 426 



Efifect of -Artificial Aeration 428 



3. Composition of the Water 430 



Effect of Accumulation of Excreted Matter 430 



Effect of Shell Salts 434 



Effect of Number of Individuals 434 



4. Temperature 435 



5. Light 437 



6. Area 438 



7. Volume 440 



8. Alternation of Conditions 441 



9. Experiments on Tadpoles 441 



VI. Effect of External Conditions on the number of eggs laid 443 



1. Sediment 443 



2. Number of Individuals 444- 



3. Light 444 



4. Other Effects and Observations 445 



VII. Summary and Conclusions 446 



VIII. Literature 447 



I. Introduction. 



It is a widely recognized fact that animals raised in confinement 

 differ in various ways from those in the wild state. The differences 



1 The writer takes great pleasure in thanldng Dr. J. Percy Moore and Dr. E. G. 

 Conklin in particular for many helpful suggestions and criticisms in carrying out 

 the work. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



that are most easily observed are those of relative rate of growth and 

 of relative fertility. Although naturalists for many years have 

 recorded cases of this sort, few have undertaken an experimental study 

 of the factors concerned. 



External conditions modifying one structure of an organism have 

 usually been found to be correlated with similar modifications in other 

 organs, yet few correlations between dissimilar physiological processes 

 have ever been observed, although most naturalists hold them to be 

 present. 



In studying the effect of confinement on organisms, nearly all 

 investigators have chosen the Pond Snail as an animal admirably 

 adapted to their purpose. Perhaps it is largely due to the abundance, 

 to the hardiness, to the rapidity of growth and above all to the extreme 

 sensibihty of Pond Snails to any slight change in environment that 

 they have been so universally chosen. 



II. Historical. 



Jebez Hogg ('54) discovered that Lymnoea confined in small aquaria 

 were much smaller than their brothers of the same egg case raised in a 

 large one. The latter were full grown and had produced young which 

 were as large as the former at the end of six months. Hogg attempted 

 to explain this phenomenon by saying that the snail had the power of 

 "adapting itself to the necessities of its existence." 



Carl Semper ('79) did not consider this as an explanation. He be- 

 lieved that there was a definite factor that would cause dwarfing. This 

 led him to perform a series of experiments with various sized containers. 

 The conclusion that he arrived at was as follows: that there was a 

 chemical in the water (he had the water analyzed, but nothing was 

 discovered) that stimulates growth without actually contributing to 

 it, but yet is essential, "like oil to a steam engine." 



The next investigator to enter this field was E. Yung ('78, '85). He 

 proceeded to raise tadpoles from the egg in various sized and shaped 

 containers. He found that those with the greatest area exposed to the 

 air held the largest tadpoles after a certain length of time. The 

 obvious conclusion w^as that the dwarfing was caused by lack of 

 aeration. 



Stimulated by the experiments of Semper and Yung, De Varigny ('94) 

 made an attempt to solve the problem by returning to Lymncea. After 

 a hundred or more very careful experiments, he did not dare venture 

 any very definite conclusion, but thought that the dwarfing of these 

 Pond Snails was caused by lack of exercise. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^^ly, 



Both Semper and De Varigny, on a priori grounds, assumed that the 

 manner of respiration in the fresh water puhnonates was entirely per- 

 formed by the so-called lung. This caused them to overlook the 

 factor of the aeration of the water. 



Willem ('96) called attention to this fact and conducted a series of 

 experiments with this particular end in view. Various authors had 

 already noticed that Lymncea in deep lakes never came to the surface, 

 and that under certain conditions they could be made to visit the 

 surface very seldom. Acting on these suggestions, he performed his 

 experiments by running a stream of air bubbles through the water, 

 using De Varigny's experiments as a basis. By this means he was able 

 to explain all of De Varigny's results as due to the simple factor of 

 aeration of the water. 



Parallel to the experiments of De Varigny ('94) and Willem ('96), 

 Vernon ('95) experimented at Naples on the growth of Echinoderm 

 larvffi. His conclusions were that dwarfing in confined spaces was due 

 to the concentration of excretory secretions in the medium. Aeration 

 seemed not to be a factor in the growth of Echinoderm larvae, except 

 for the fact that aeration would tend to oxidize the waste products of 

 metabolism. 



Warren ('00), as a result of experiments with Daphnia in confined 

 spaces, reported that the individuals were dwarfed by the accumulation 

 of their own excretory secretions. This was specific and did not 

 affect the growth and abundance of other crustaceans. 



It will be seen that five factors have been advanced to explain 

 dwarfing in confined spaces. These are lack of oxygen, presence of 

 secretions, lack of exercise, presence of unknown chemical, and the 

 adaption to the necessities of existence. 



In commenting on these explanations Davenport ('99) writes, 

 "There is, however, much reason for believing that Hogg's conclusion 

 is the one which with our fuller knowledge we can hardly improve 

 upon." In the mind of the author Hogg's explanation is not an expla- 

 nation but a statement of the fact that confined spaces do affect growth. 

 It does not help us to understand how and why animals adapt them- 

 selves to their surroundings. 



III. Materials. 



After a few preliminary experiments with Lymncea, Physa and 

 Planorhis, it was soon found that the former was by far the best form 

 for experiments in the laboratory. There are several reasons for 

 this. Lymncea is abundant in the ponds and streams about Philadel- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



phia. It is not quite as abundant, perhaps, as is Physa; yet, except 

 when the ponds are frozen in the winter, is easily procured. A fact 

 of the greatest importance is that eggs are laid throughout the winter, 

 and that these eggs ordinarily develop with slight mortality. The 

 Lymmea on which the following experiments were performed was 

 identified by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry as Lymncea columella Say. This is the 

 most common Lymncea in the neighborhood of Philadelphia. The 

 specimens were procured in certain ponds in Fairmount Park, in a 

 stream near Bryn Mawr, and in the Vivarium of the University of 

 Pennsylvania; the latter had come from an unknown source. 



The numJDer of eggs laid at one time by Lymncea columella may vary 

 between one egg and ninety. The egg is, as in the case of other Basiom- 

 matophora, imbedded in an albuminous food material, all of which is 

 enclosed by a membrane. This membrane is in turn imbedded in a 

 shmy jelly in which lie the other eggs, laid at the same time. This 

 slimy jelly is again surrounded by an outer layer of jelly, which is 

 quite tough when compared to that matrix which holds the eggs. This 

 tough jelly is thick on the free side, but thin where it cements the eggs 

 to the substratum. In the act of hatching the young snail, which 

 crawls around inside of the membrane, finds its way into the soft jelly 

 mass. After spending a day or two eating this substance, it finally 

 ruptures the wall of tough jelly and escapes. In this jelly mass the 

 eggs are usually placed in three rows. Although the number of eggs 

 may vary greatly, yet in the winter time the average number is about 

 twenty. When adult snails, as soon as the ice is off the ponds in the 

 spring, are brought into the laboratory, they lay the largest number 

 of eggs in a capsule. This fact will be discussed later. 



To shed some light on the behavior of the snail after hatching, an egg 

 case containing four young was placed in a dish of water and the posi- 

 tions of the snails after hatching plotted at intervals of five minutes 

 for a period of forty-four hours. From the data gathered in this 

 manner the following generalizations were made: — 



1. Although on hatching the lung contained no air, yet 95 minutes, 

 50 minutes, 110 minutes and 60 minutes respectively were consumed 

 by the different snails in reaching the surface of the water. One snail 

 captured an air bubble before it left the egg case. 



2. The movements of snails, previous to their reaching the surface, 

 were more or less at random, and they paid very little attention to the 

 direction of the diffused light in which the experiment was started. 

 However, on first reaching the edge of the dish they, in every case, 

 crawled up to the surface. The snail that captured the air bubble 



27 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



wandered for 110 minutes after leaving the capsule and then reached 

 the surface by a different method. Letting go from its substratum 

 this snail floated up and proceeded to crawl on the surface film, precisely 

 Hke an adult snail. 



3. In this experiment the snails without exception rested at night. 

 The lack of activity may be due to slightly cooler water, yet the dish 

 was kept in a warm room all of the time. Although these snails had no 

 experience of the oustide world, yet they acted, as far as this experiment 

 indicates, exactly as adults. 



Walter ('06) has given us the most complete account of the bionomics 

 of Lymncea. Using his work as a basis it is necessary to call to mind 

 certain activities of the animal. Lymncea has four methods of loco- 

 motion, which may be roughly described as gliding, hunching, dangling 

 and dropping. The last two methods are rare and it is not necessary to 

 consider them in this place. The first method is the most common. 

 It consists in the cilia of the foot beating on a path of mucus secreted by 

 the animal and attached to the substratum. When the snail is oui of 

 water, when its supply of mucus is inadequate and when certain stimuli 

 are applied the snail resorts to the hunching method, which consists of 

 muscular movements of the foot which bring the snail forward. This 

 is something like the movements of a measuring worm. Whatever 

 method the snail uses it is attached to some substratum, whether it be 

 the sides of the aquarium or the surface film of the water, or suspended 

 by a string of mucus from the surface film or anchored by a string of 

 mucus from the bottom. In these ways the snail can browse on 

 water plants, on the sides of the aquarium, and gather the algse floating 

 on the surface (Plankton fishing of Brockmeier, '98) ; but cannot gather 

 any amount of food suspended in the water. 



We have seen by the experiments of Hogg, Semper and De Varigny 

 that certain external conditions will inhibit growth in Lymmea. It is 

 interesting to know just what structural differences exist between the 

 full-grown snail, the dwarf and a normal growing snail the size of the 

 dwarf. Hogg ('54) noticed that the dwarfed snail had many charac- 

 teristics of the newly hatched individual. 



A comparison of the structure of a dwarf with a j'oung snail of equal 

 size that was being raised under favorable conditions, and a comparison 

 of the structure of a dwarf with a snail of the same age that had spent 

 its growing period under favorable conditions and therefore much 

 larger, will show certain relations. These relations are as follows : 



1. Of snails the same size but not the same age the number of whorls 

 of the shell are the same. 




1908." 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



2. The same relation holds true with regard to the arrangement of 

 the viscera, i.e., lobes of the liver, stomach and intestines. 



3. Cytologically, however, the tissues of the young snail are quite 

 different from the older ones. As an instance of this the liver of the 

 young snail contains large cells laden with yolk, all of which has been 

 completely absorbed in the dwarf. 



In a pond near Geneva Brot^ found that Lymtuea had a malformation 

 on the columella that seemed to be correlate i with the presence of 

 Hydra viridis. If a snail be long dwarfed and later be put ijnder favor- 

 able conditions, the shell is often strangely distorted. The pond near 

 Geneva may have nearly dried up and suddenly filled up'again. All the 

 snails in the pond would be under unfavorable conditions and dwarfed. 

 The pond filling up would offer ideal conditions and the snails would 

 grow. 



Dr. Pilsbry informed the writer that he has noted cases of this sort. 



A question of great interest is, will a dwarf put under favorable con- 

 ditions "grow up"? In Lymncea many experiments seem to show 

 that a dwarf does not cease to grow, but rather ceases to grow fast. 

 If, however, the snail is put under favorable conditions it starts at once 

 to grow faster and may ''grow up." However, they seem ''deUcate" 

 and it is with difficulty that they are raised. 



In this section the writer has attempted to outline some of the points 

 that have certain bearings on the experiments to come. 



IV, Methods. 

 In the brief review of the experiments of various authors that has 

 been given, certain controllable factors were shown that would affect 

 in certain ways the growth of animals. Every author on a priori 

 grounds has assumed that (1) food supply will influence growth. It 

 was found by Hogg ('54) and by Semper (74) that (2) the volume of 

 water affected growth. Semper showed that (3) temperature also 

 was a factor that could not be neglected, and that (4) the number of 

 individuals reacted in some manner on one another. Willem ('96) 

 proved that (5) aeration of the water affected the growth of Lymncea, 

 even as Yung ('79) had previously observed for tadpoles. De Varigny 

 considered that a large (6) area on which a snail could crawl was bene- 

 ficial to growth. The effect of (7) light was recognized by Higgen- 

 bottom ('50) and by Yung ('80). \'ernon ('95-'99) completed this 

 list by adding to it a factor, (8) the chemical composition of the water. 



^ Cited from the Camh. Nat. Hist., Mollusks, p. S8. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



There are eight variable factors that have been considered to affect 

 the growth processes of aquatic animals. Each factor, however, is not 

 of equal weight, but should be held in mind and controlled, if possible, 

 in an experimental study. Using the topics named above as a basis for 

 study, the general plan of the experiments that follow in the subsequent 

 section will be to keep every other factor constant and vary one alone. 



Precautions. — ^The experiments were carried out principally in 

 battery jars. The size used in the majority of the experiments was 

 4 inches in diameter by 5 inches high. Other vessels used were 5x6 

 battery jars, 8 x 10 battery jars and 12-inch dishes. 



In order to save repetition we will consider here the methods em- 

 ployed in every case. Where this order has been deviated from, it 

 will be mentioned in its place. 



(1) Before each experiment the jars were washed out and wiped 

 clean. In the later experiments the jars were washed with oxidizing 

 solution (potassium bichromate in concentrated sulphuric acid) as an 

 extra precaution. 



(2) The water used in the experiments was taken from a large 

 aquarium in the University Vivarium which contained fish. This was 

 done to introduce algae, etc., without the danger of adding young snails 

 with it. 



(3) In any one experiment the jars used were similar, the water 

 was taken from the same source, and the same amount of water was 

 used unless stated otherwise. These conditions being fulfilled, the 

 composition of the water, the algae for food, and the temperature must 

 vary in the same way. 



(4) In a given experiment the jars were placed near together and 

 care was taken so that each received an equal amount of light. 



(5) Over each was placed a glass plate to prevent evaporation and 

 the escape of the snails. This latter apparently suicidal behavior, as 

 described by Walter, was found often occurring. In many of the 

 cases that have come under observation, this was caused by the vapor 

 condensing on the glass sides of the jar above the water. Up this wet 

 glass the snail crawls, until temperature changes occur that dry the 

 glass. The snail is then dried and killed. Other cases are not so easy 

 to explain. 



(6) Just before an egg case was ready to hatch, with a section lifter it 

 was carefully removed from its substratum and isolated in a jar of 

 water. If the eggs are freshly laid it is usually fatal to the embryos 

 to remove them. In some of the earlier experiments, after the young 

 snail has broken through the egg membrane, the jelly mass was divided 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



417 



up SO that each piece contained an equal number of snails and placed at 

 once under the conditions of the experiment. As there was less 

 mortality by letting the young snails escape from the case normally, 

 they were not placed under the conditions of the experiment until a day 

 after they escaped from the egg case. 



(7) In those jars in which I have placed water plant I have tried to 

 add pieces of water plant of equal length and foliage. 



(8) Where sediment was needed approximately the same amount 

 was added to each jar. 



Measurements. — To measure growth several methods have been 

 used. It is possible to 

 measure volume, weight, 

 a lineal dimension of some 

 part, or the number of 

 successively arising homo- 

 dynamous structures. In 

 the case of the pond snail 

 the lineal dimension of the 

 length of the shell at once 

 suggests itself. To meas- 

 ure this the following ap- 

 paratus was arranged. A 

 is a compound microscope 

 with about a 7-inch work- 

 ing distance magnifying 

 the object about three 

 times (fig. 1 ) . O is a snail 

 on a thin glass sHde that 

 was placed over a piece of 

 paper ruled in millimeters.. 

 The snail was placed with 

 the aperture flat on the 

 glass and the shell would 

 be projected on the ruled 

 lines. Millimeters were 

 then read off on the 

 paper and tenths estimated. This is sufficiently accurate where the 

 work is purely qualitative. A Vernier caliper could not be used on 

 account of the delicacy of the shell. 



In some cases the weight is given. This is not alwaj^s satisfactory. 

 As growth is a three dimensional phenomenon weight more nearly 



Fig. 1. 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^lty, 



represents growth. However, the writer found that the snails, large 

 and small, are mathematically similar. That is, the weights are pro- 

 portional to the cubes of the length. 



In determining the average weight all the snails from a given experi- 

 ment were placed on a microscopic slide of known weight and all excess 

 water wiped aw^ay with a clean handkerchief or with lens paper. They 

 were then let dry for three or four minutes and weighed. Dividing the 

 weight found for the snails by the number gives the average. 



Tables. — The results of experiments are placed in tabular form. 

 Each experiment consists of two parts ; the second member of the pair 

 is in every case the control or the condition most nearly normal. The 

 variable factor precedes it. 



A detailed description of the vertical columns of the tables will now 

 be considered. Cf. tables, pp. 421 et seq. 



Column 1. — The serial number of the experiment. 



Column 2. — The number of days the experiment was carried on. 



Column 3. — The number of snails placed in a jar at the beginning of 

 the experiment. 



Column 4. — The number of snails alive at the time the measure- 

 ments were taken. 



Column 5. — ^The condition that varied in each pair of experiments. 



Column 6. — Certain constant conditions. These constants are in 

 some cases interesting to know. In this column certain abbrevia- 

 tions are used. W P equals Water Plant, i.e., Myriophyllum, Cera- 

 tophyllum, Elodea or Spirogyra. N indicates no water plant, cc. 

 equals cubic centimeters present in each jar. 



Column 7. — Average size. If the number is expressed in ten thou- 

 sandths, grams are to be implied; if expressed in units and tenths, 

 millimeters. 



Column 8. — The differences between pairs are placed opposite the 

 largest number of the pair. 



Column 9. — The quantity in this column is the per cent, of the differ- 

 ence to the largest average of the pair. To be able to compare the per 

 cent, difference of the weights with those of lengths the following 

 formula was used, being based on the fact that the snails are similar. 



a and b are two members of a pair expressed in grams and a > b. 

 Since the shells are similar mathematically, then 



Analysis of Experiments. — To bring the mass of experiments into a 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



form in which they may be more easih' considered, a subsidiary table 

 has been compiled from the primary ones. This table consists of four 

 columns (p. 420a). 



Column 1 contains the number of the primary talkie for reference. 



Column 2 gives the number of experiments in the primary tables that 

 are favorable to the presence of a factor. 



Column 3 gives the number of experiments in the primary tables that 

 are favorable to the absence of a factor. 



Column 4 shows the number of experiments that are indeterminate. 

 To determine whether an experiment is indeterminate or not certain 

 rules are followed : 



1. If there has been a large mortality among the snails which were 

 the larger at the end of the experiment the difference was considered 

 indeterminate. The fact that they were the larger could be explained 

 by the fact that they were the fewer. If, however, the opposite 

 was true, i.e., the mortality was among the smaller snails, then the 

 probability is that they are fewer because the conditions have been the 

 more severe. 



2. An experiment has been considered indeterminate if there was a 

 large mortality on both sides of the experiment, notwithstanding the 

 fact that the remaining numbers are nearly equal. The reason for 

 this is the probability that an uncontrolled factor has been acting. 



3. When a known factor has acted on one portion of the experiment 

 and not on the other, the difference has been considered indeterminate. 



4. Those experiments where the difference is under 10 per cent, of 

 the greatest average has been believed to be indeterminate. This 

 purely arbitrary criterion has been devised to allow for two uncon- 

 trollable errors — individual variation and errors in measurement. The 

 obvious way to correct these errors would be to make use of large num- 

 bers of individuals in single experiments. As the number of eggs in a 

 case is small, and when the snails are crowded the mortality is large, 

 it has been found impossible to deal with large numbers. A limi of 

 error must be made that will be large enough to cover most unknown 

 errors (see next page). 




420 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Secoxdarv Table. . 

 For description see page 419. 



Table 



I. 



II. 



III. 



IV. 



V. 



VI. 



VII. 



VIII. 



IX. 



X. 



XI. 

 XII. 



XIII. 



XIV. 



XV. 



XVI. 



XVII. 



XVIII. 



XIX. 



XX. 



Elodea 2 exp. 



Mjaiopliyllum 6 " 



Sediment 13 " 



Fgeces 2 " 



Flat dish 2 " 



1 " 



Air bubbles 5 " 



(See Special Table,p.431) 

 Excretions cone. . . 1^ " 

 " dilute . . 5 " 



(See Special Table.) 



Numbers " 



Shell salts (see Special 



Table). 

 Temperature (see Special 



Table, p. 419). 



Cold exp. 



Dark " 



Large area 2 " 



Large volume 8 " 



Alternate heat and 



cold 4 " 



Alternate light and 



dark " 



Alternate starving 



and feeding " 



Absence of 4 exp. 



" 4 



" 4 



" 



i Jar and slides 2 



Battery jar 



Absence of 2 



Warm 11 



Light 5 



Small area 8 



Small volume ... 



Warm 

 Light . 



Inde- 

 terminate. 



4 exp 



7 

 5 

 1 

 4 

 6 



With food. 



V. Experiments. 



1. Effect of Food. — Various authors (Semper, Ullyet,^ Cockerall,^ 

 Walter, etc.) have shown that Lymncea will eat animal as well as vege- 

 table food. However, the latter furnishes the normal diet. This con- 

 sists of diatomes, desmids, unicellular and filamentous algse, the leaves 

 of water plants, and dead leaves of trees. If a snail after hatching is 

 placed in a clean battery jar with 500 cc. of clear pond water that 

 snail will grow, the necessary amount of food being supplied by the 

 microscopic algae introduced with the water which will increase faster 

 than the snail can eat up. If the temperature is favorable, in the course 

 of two months the snail will reach 7 mm. or 8 mm. in altitude and 

 become sexually mature. The fact that the supply of food keeps 

 ahead of the demand is interesting and led to a series of experiments 



Boiled water from a jar in which a snail had been raised. 

 Cited from Walter ('06). 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



421 



with Myriophyllum and Elodea, to see the effect of these water plants 

 and to discover whether or not their presence is beneficial. A priori 

 one would consider that the effect of these larger water plants as 

 Elodea or Myriophyllum would be beneficial. My experiments seemed 

 in indicate that their effect was the opposite. I at once started a great 

 number of experiments in this line. Some experiments, as can be seen 

 in Table I and Table II, went decidedly one way and some went 

 decidedly the other. The results were chaotic and no generalizations 

 were possible. 



A study of the gross anatomy of Lymncea reveals the fact that the 

 anterior portion of the stomach is highly muscular. This muscular 

 sac was originally described by Martin Lister '^ and compared to the 

 stomach of a mullet. Cuvier ('17) more happily compared it to the 

 gizzard of a granivorous bird. It was compared much later by the 

 geologist Whitfield ('82), independently of Cuvier, to the gizzard of a 

 fowl. Whitfield showed that this organ like the gizzard is normally 

 filled with sand in Lymncea megasoma. 



Table I — Effect of Elodea. 



5 Cited by Cuvif r ('17). 




422 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Table II — Effect of Myriophyllum. 



Effect of Sediment. — The gizzard of Lymncea columella, like the latter, 

 is usually filled with fine sand. However, in dissecting a number of 

 individuals of Lymmea columella that had been raised in clean battery 

 jars I found no sign of sand. In a few individuals I found some grains, 

 when a dihgent search of the jar failed to reveal any more. It seems 

 that this individual had in its crop the only grains of sediment that the 

 jar contained. 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



42.- 



Table III— Effect of Sediment. 




424 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Another point of importance in these experiments was the fact that 

 in no cases was the water plant attacked when sediment was not 

 present. On the other hand, in jars with sediment present the normal 

 thing was to have the leaves of the water plant cut to pieces. 



To determine whether the presence or absence of sediment would 

 affect the growth processes of the snail a number of experiments were 

 undertaken. The sediment used in Experiments 85, 86, 87 and 88, 

 was mud from the pond in the Botanic Gardens. This was washed 

 and that which settled in from 1 to 5 minutes kept for experimental 

 purposes. Because this mud would probably introduce food into the 

 jars, soil from the garden bed was taken, boiled and that which settled 

 in from 1 to 5 minutes used in Experiments 89 and 90. In Experi- 

 ments 118-121 the sediment was boiled in concentrated nitric acid, 

 evaporated to dryness, and ignited. This would surely destroy all 

 organic matter; yet the results of these experiments continued to show 

 the benefit of the sediment. Quartz sand and quartz pebbles washed 

 with nitric acid gave beneficial results also. If the Myriophyllum was 

 washed in running water the snails did not grow as large as if it was 

 used with the particles of sediment still clinging to the leaves. 



In conclusion it seems probable that (1) the muscular gizzard filled 

 with sand is necessary to break up the plant cells that have been torn 

 off by the radula. (2) The absence of sand seems to have the effect 

 of causing the snails not to rasp off cells from the tissues of water plant. 

 (3) If there is enough small algae present, Myriophyllum will have Httle 

 or no effect on the growth. (4) An examination of the stomach of 

 small snails under 5 mm. shows that such plant tissue as Myriophyllum 

 is not eaten. With snails 5 to 12 mm., however, great gashes are torn in 

 the leaves, and the stomach is filled with the crushed cells. (5) The 

 discordant results of Tables I and II are no doubt due to the presence 

 or absence of sediment. 



Fceces. — The amount of fseces produced by Lymruea is enormous and 

 Walter ('06) reports that Lymncea elodes forms cylinders of fsecal mat- 

 ter fourteen times its own length every twenty-four hours. This 

 collects at the bottom of the aquaria in great tangled masses. 



De Varigny ('94) investigated the effect of this material on the 

 growing snail. The result of his experiments was the stunting of the 

 snails in the jar with the fsecal masses. In repeating these experi- 

 ments of De Varigny the writer gathered fseces from a jar in which a 

 snail had been living for a month or two. This matter in some cases 

 was washed in a filter and in others by decanting. This washed 

 material was added to jars of snails. The result indicated in Table IV 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



425 



was the opposite from that found by De Varigny. However, the 

 latter did not wash the faecal material, and so introduced into the 

 water a large amount of soluble excreted material that he himself found 

 so harmful to the growing snail. 



Table IV — Effect of F.eces. 



^- Rathay's ('98) observations on Helix hortensis and Young's ('88) 

 observations on Helix po?natia and on Arion show that these pulmonates 

 eat a great mass of food, very little of which appears to be assimilated 

 or even digested. 



Observations of the fsecal matter of Lymncea shows the same thing 

 true for these pond snails. Although the writer did not perform 

 any special tests on the cells found in fseces, as did Rathay ('98), yet 

 the appearance of the Pleurococcus and desmids in those masses was so 

 nearly normal that there is very little doubt that there was any 

 change. 



Other Effects of Water Plants. — Warren ('00) discovered that Daphnia 

 in a vessel filled with Vallisneria became less and less productive. If, 

 however, the bulk of the water plant was removed, the crustaceans soon 

 regained their normal number. As green light was found to be unfavor- 

 able to the fertility of Daphnia, Warren concluded that the mass of 

 green plant caused the light to be green and the Daphnia infertile in 

 consequence. 



It can be imagined from what has been said that the effect of water 

 plant on the physiological processes of organisms is not simple and it is 

 not easy at once to discover just how it acts. 



2. Aeration. — This section should be treated under the head of the 

 composition of the water, but as Semper, De Varigny, Willem and 

 Walter have each considered it separately, it was thought best to 

 follow them and make it an independent topic. 



On a priori grounds Semper ('79) and De Varigny ('94) both decided 

 that the only means of respiration in Lymncea was by the specially 




426 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



differentiated so-called lung ; therefore these mollusks must come to the 

 surface for air. However, the observations of v. Siebold^ ('59), Pauly*^ 

 (77), Forel ('69, 74, '04), Andre« ('01), Walker ('00) and the experi- 

 ments of Willem ('96) show that the respiration of the animal is in a 

 large part carried on by the outer surface of the body. 



De Varigny's Experiment. — De Varigny noticed that dishes with the 

 largest area contained the largest snails. This at once suggested aera- 

 tion. To determine whether this was the true explanation, he half 

 immersed a small glass cylinder with the bottom covered with muslin 

 in a large vessel of water. To insure the mixture of the water in both 

 vessels, he lifted the small vessel out of the large one daily and allowed 

 it to empty and fill, when he replaced it again. In each vessel he 

 introduced a snail of equal size and age; and at the end of the experi- 

 ment the one that had a large place in which to roam was the larger. 

 As the water in both compartments was in communication, the amount 

 of oxygen in both vessels must be identical. Therefore, the snail 

 having the greatest area to roam about, on his exercise theory, became 

 the larger. 



Willem' s Experiment. — Semper ('79) found that to carry air bubbles 

 through a vessel containing young snails created such a disturbance 

 that the small snails were washed from their substratum. Willem 

 ('96) devised an apparatus for conducting air bubbles through a liquid 

 without disturbing the water. It consisted of a glass tube (fig. 2) (a) 

 immersed in the jar to be experimented on. Below the surface was 

 blown a hole (o). Tube (c), turned upon the end, conducted bubbles 

 of air into tube (a). The bubbles escaped into the water and travelled 

 up tube (a), the water carried up by the bubble escaping by the hole 

 (o), and the air bubble continued up the tube and escaped. 



Willem repeated the experiment of De Varigny, but introduced his 

 aerating apparatus into the small jar (fig. 3). The water, kept con- 

 stantly interchanging in the large and small vessel, caused the snails 

 to be of equal size. 



Vernon ('03) explained the results of this experiment not by lack of 

 aeration, but by the increase of excretory products which did not pass 

 freely through the muslin. 



Surface Aeration. — The experiments undertaken b}" the writer are 

 considered under two heads — surface aeration and artificial aeration. 

 The effect of surface aeration was determined by the use of flat dishes 

 and a battery jar for control. To make the inside area of the jar equal 

 to the inside area of t!ie dish, so as to have equal areas inside the jar 



" Cited from Walter ('06). 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



427 





Fig. 2. (After Willem.) 



Fig. 3. (After Willem.) 



for algae to grow upon and for the snail to "exercise" upon, a structure 

 of microscopic slides of calculated area was introduced. Table V gives 

 the results of these experiments. These results are seen to have little 



Table V — Flat Dish and Jar Area Increased by Slides. 




428 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Fig. 4. 



significance. In some, however, no slides were used (Table VI). 

 Out of seven experiments but one difference was significant, and that 

 one indicated that the larger surface was beneficial. 



However, these experiments seem to indicate that the effect of sur- 

 face aeration is not very striking, yet increased aeration by the surface 

 of the water no doubt is of slight advantage to the growth of the snail. 



Artificial Aeration. — In a number of experiments streams of air 

 bubbles were conducted through jars of water. The apparatus used 

 was a modification of that of Willem (^96) (see fig. 4). In Experiments 

 37-43 (Table VII) the air was passed through night and day, in the 

 remaining experiments for but eight hours a day. The results confirm 

 Willem's conclusion that cuticular respiration is a large factor in the 

 growth of Lymncea. 




1908-] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



Table VI — Flat Dish and Battery Jar. 



Table VII — Artificial Aeration. 



Walter's ('06) experiments show that Lymncea will live in boiled 

 water, but come to the surface more often. If imprisoned below the 

 surface of aerated water they die. 

 28 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



In consideration of the above the writer believes the follo\\ing 

 statement of Willem not altogether supported by the facts. Willem 

 ('96) writes, p. 567: "Ces experiences, . . . ., prouvent que chez les 

 Basommatophores la respiration cutanee est plus importante que la 

 respiration pulmonaire et qu'a elle seule, elle pent suffire a la vie de 

 ces animaux." 



3. The Composition of the Water. — The present study considers those 

 conditions alone in which the composition of the water might affect 

 the growth of pond snails under natural conditions. 



Effect of Accumulation of Excreted Matter. — De Varigny ('94) grew 

 snails in water in which a snail had been living for months, with the 

 result that the snails were dwarfed. Vernon ('95) performed similar 

 experiments with Echinoderm larvae with the same result. The writer 

 has conducted experiments of this sort on Lymncea. Table IX expresses 

 the results of eight experiments. These results are as follows: (1) 

 That weak solutions of the waste products of metabolism are of benefit 

 to the snail. (2) That concentrated solutions are harmful. (3) In 

 Experiments 136 and 199 the water was aerated so the factor of the 

 aeration of the water would be constant. In Experiment 143 the 

 water was boiled, yet in these two cases the results were similar. Later 

 the experiments of Table X were repeated with different dilutions of 

 urea with similar results. As these were similar to those found by 

 Vernon ('95), who used also uric acid on Echinoderm larvae, it was not 

 thought necessary to continue the experiments further. 



Analyses of the water. A year before Vernon's ('99) paper was 

 called to the attention of the writer, a series of analyses were made 

 of the water in a number of jars. Although not nearly so extensive 

 as those of Vernon, yet the results were nearly parallel. 



By the methods of water analysis (Clowes and Coleman, '03), the 

 water in the jars of several experiments was analyzed for chlorides, 

 nitrates and particularly for free and for albuminoid ammonia. The 

 free ammonia consists largely of the inorganic salts of ammonia. 

 Albuminoid ammonia on the other hand is made up of organic com- 

 pounds from which the ammonia radicle is not detached by boiling 

 with sodium carbonate. 



Experiments 200 and 201, Table VIII, were conducted in the follow- 

 ing manner: Six jars with 500 cc. of water, which was analyzed 

 before the experiment, were taken. Two were used without water 

 plant or snail as control. The other jars contained snails and water 

 plant as follows: one without water plant but with one full-grown 

 snail, one without water plant but with five snails, one with water 




431 



1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Table VIII. 

 Experiment 200. 



Experiment 201. 



Experiment 202. 



plant and no snail, and one with water plant together with tw^o snails. 

 After ten days the water was analyzed. The following facts seem to be 

 illustrated by these experiments: (1) Calcium and chlorides in the 

 water do not seem to be affected by the excretions of the snail. (2) 

 In the jar that contained no snails yet contained Myriophyllum nearly 

 all the free ammonia was taken up by the water plant. This is a 

 phenomenon well known to botanists (Sachs, 75 ; Bessy, '92). 

 Vernon ('99) found that the presence of Ulva decreased the free 

 ammonia, but increased the albuminoid ammonia. 




432 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Table IX — Effect of Excretions. 



Table X — Effect of Urea. 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Table XI — Effect of Numbers. 



433 



Experiment 202 shows but one fact, i.e., that the amount of excre- 

 tion is roughly proportional to the size of the snail. 



Table XII — Effect of Shell Salts. 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Effect of Shell Salts. — If it were possible to measure some other 

 physiological process of the snail than growth, another method might 

 be instituted to attack the study of the effect of environment. As it 

 is possible to measure the activity of a certain tissue in the pond snail 

 by the amount of its secretions, a series of experiments were con- 

 ducted. The tissue referred to is the mantle which secretes the shell. 

 With this in mind a few experiments with calcium carbonate, calcium 

 sulphate, and calcium phosphate. Snails that had been raised in 

 saturated solutions of these salts, which are but shghtly soluble in 

 water, were measured; the results are expressed in Table XII. The 

 salts were supphed as the pure chemical or as ground-up Lymncea shell. 

 The results show that calcium sulphate is most beneficial and that the 

 presence of shell salts are favorable to snail growth. Experiments 

 55-56 did not consider that the sediment of the ground mineral might 

 introduce another factor. Experiments 201-204 consider this factor. 

 The fact that each chemical seems to favor a separate flora introduces 

 another factor which makes these experiments most unsatisfactory. 



Number of Individuals. — Semper ('74) and De Varigny ('94) both 

 reported that in two similar jars, one containing one snail and one 

 containing many, the single one grew the larger in every case. This 

 fact was one of Semper's strongest arguments in favor of the presence 

 of an unknown chemical. De Varigny could not explain this result 

 on his exercise theory, so he advanced a psychological theory based on 

 the fact that two snails might annoy each other. He writes: "Mais 

 que pent etre cette influence morale dans le monde des Lymnees? Le 

 probleme est embarrassant, et je n'ose decide si la presence de deux 

 L3rmnees gene ou ne gene pas le peregrinations de la troisieme, etc." 

 (p. 187). 



The result of the experiments reported in Table VI of the present 

 work confirm the results of the authors who have investigated this 

 factor. Discarding both Semper's and De Varigny's explanation, we 

 must turn to a consideration of those of the later authors. Willem 

 ('96) explained the result as due to aeration, but it seems rather that 

 Vernon's ('03) explanation is more nearly true. Vernon considers 

 that the toxic influence of accumulations of the waste products of 

 metabolism is the cause of the dwarfing, yet increased aeration will 

 insure more rapid oxidation of those waste products and so remove 

 their harmf ulness. 



From what has been said it will be seen that the chemical composi- 

 tion of the water is a very important factor in the rate of growth of 

 Lymncea. The composition of the water may exert a toxic or a bene- 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



435 



ficial effect on the growing snail. This has been explained in the case 

 of effect of numbers in various ways, but most reasonably by lack of 

 aeration and of composition of the water. It is probable that those 

 two factors work together. 



4. Temperature. — Semper (79) reported that snails chilled were 

 retarded in growth and that growth ceased at 13° C. Walter ('06) 

 found that they became more active in warm water than in cold water. 

 The experiments of Walter ('06) were repeated in the following way: 

 Four large snails 9 mm. and four small snails 1.5 mm. were placed in a 

 glass dish with about 20 cc. of water. Under the dish a piece of cross- 

 section paper was laid, and on another piece of cross-section paper the 

 position of each snail was plotted every five minutes for a period of 

 three hours. 



For the first hour the dish was in a cold room and the temperature 

 fell from 12^° to 6^° C. The dish was then packed around with ice 

 for half an hour until the temperature fell from 6^° to 3^° C. The 

 dish was then placed in a warm room for one hour, the temperature 

 rising from 3^° to 17° C. For the next twenty minutes it was placed 

 near a radiator, and the last ten minutes the dish was placed above the 

 radiator, the temperature rising from 17° to 26° C. Fig. 5 shows how 

 the snails were affected, tt represents the temperature curve; the 

 heavy black line the distance in millimeters that the small snails 

 travelled in periods of five minutes; the dotted line indicates the 

 same thing for the large snails. 



Table XIII. 



The average speed for the small snails closely follows that|for the 

 large ones. The table shows, several things: (1) that cold apphed 




436 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



rather suddenly stimulates the snail to become active so as to escape 

 from the cold. The same reaction is noticed when heat above the 

 optimum is applied. (2) When the water continued cold the activities 

 decreased. 



Fig. 5. — Temperature and velocity curve of large and small Lj^fnnsea. [Line 1 1 

 represents temperature in centigrade during three hours. Dotted line rep- 

 resents distance traveled in m.m. in five-minute intervals by the large 

 snails. The solid line shows the same thing for the small ones.] 



The experiments on growth conducted by Semper did not take into 

 account the effect of cold on the water plant. To eUminate this 

 factor the writer alternated the jars wdth the water plant from the 

 warm to the cold at stated intervals, but transferred the snails from 

 one jar to the other, so that certain snails remained in the warm and 

 certain snails remained in the cold all the time, yet the jars that con- 

 tained them were the same, and therefore the amount and condition of 

 the food was similar. 



The manner that cold acts on the growth of Lymncea may be twofold. 

 Cold, as is so well known, retards the rate of chemical combinations and 

 so retards physiological processes. As growth is a physiological 

 process it is retarded, and as the activities of the animal are physio- 

 logical processes they are also retarded. Growth depends largely on the 

 presence of food, yet the food of Lymnaa is acquired only through 

 constant motion, so it might easily become dwarfed, with abundance of 

 food about it, if conditions should make the snail sluggish. In LymncBa 

 we have seen that both these factors may be at work, reduced physio- 

 logical processes acting directly on growth, or reduced activities may 

 actually caus(; dwarfing by lack of food. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



Table XIV — Effect of Heat and Cold. 



5. Lt^/i^.— Beginning with Higgenbottom ('50), various writers have 

 conducted experiments on the effect of Hght on the growth of animals. 

 The work of these authors, including Yung (78, '80 and '92), Vernon 

 ('95), Warren ('00) and Beclard ('58), deals largely with the effect of 

 colored light on the development of different animals. The present 

 work considers the effect of hght and darkness alone. Although 

 experiments were attempted with colored lights, yet the many difficul- 

 ties in the shape of uncontrollable factors made the results so unreliable 

 that space will not be taken in discussing them. Even in the experi- 

 ments on light and darkness the factor of food was with difficulty con- 

 trolled. It was only by resorting to similar means as in the experi- 

 ments on temperature that this factor was controlled at all. However, 

 this did not remove all the uncontrolled factors present. There was 

 also the chance of there being a different temperature of the water 

 between the two jars; this difference at times amounting to 2° C. 




438 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Although the experiments of Walter ('06) and some of the writers 

 seem to indicate that Lymncea is slightly negatively phototactic, yet 

 darkness is prejudicial to growth (Table XV). 



Table XV — Effect of Light and Dark. 



This factor of light is of less importance than the other external 

 conditions affecting growth, and is one that the snail can directly 

 control to some extent through its behavior, and is also one that can 

 be easily regulated in the laboratory. It is almost impossible to 

 devise experiments on the effect of light on animals whose food con- 

 sists of green plants, and experiments so conducted can have little 

 significance. 



6. Area. — According to De Varigny's exercise theory, dwarfing of 

 Lymncea was caused by too little area for the snail to crawl upon. To 

 test the truth of this hypothesis, structures of various shapes were 

 constructed out of microscopic slides and introduced into one of two 

 similar jars containing snails. As some of the structures were cemented 

 with sealing wax, sealing wax was added to the other jar of the experi- 

 ment, so that there was no difference between the jars, except the fact 

 that one had a larger surface exposed on which the snail could crawl 

 than did the other. The results (Table XVI) were contrary to what 

 might have been expected from De Varigny's hypothesis. It can 

 hardly be that the slides hindered the snails from wandering around ; 

 on the contrary the great area exposed would form a surface on which 

 much more algae would grow. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



Table XVI. 



439 



This experiment suggests some results reported by Dandino ('04) 

 on the effect of toxic sohitions on germinating peas and corn. In 

 toxic solutions (dilute acids) the addition of quartz sand (washed in 

 HCl and distilled water) was 32 times as toxic as that without the 

 sand. The author explains this fact as the result of surface action. 

 In the present work experiments with quartz sand and even with 

 pebbles caused an increase in the rate of growth. This is an effect 




440 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



opposite to that found by Danclino, yet it throws very Uttle light on the 

 bad effects caused by the presence of microscopic slides. 



As De Varigny used flat dishes in contrast to spherical flasks, his 

 cases of dwarfing by rearing in a small area can be referred with very 

 little doubt to lack of aeration. 



7. Volume. — Before the preceding series of experiments were com- 

 pleted, so before the bad effect of the presence of microscopic slides 

 was known in experiments with volume, the inside area of the two 

 similar jars was made equal by a structure of slides of calculated area. 

 The amount of water in the two jars was not the same, the smaller 

 volume of water containing the structure of slides. Experiments with- 

 out the structure were later tried, but all the experiments led to the 

 same result (Table XVII) : the snails in the smaller volume were the 

 smaller. 



Table XVH — Effect of Volume. 



Dandino, referred to above, found that in toxic solutions, i.e., weak 

 acids, the radicles of peas and corn grew longer in a small volume than 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



in a larger volume. This coidcl be explained by assuming that there is 

 but a definite amount of toxin present to act on the seed. With the 

 snail, however, the case is reversed. The toxin, which we have shown 

 in the preceding sections to be present, is ever being increased in 

 quantity by the secretions of the animal. In the case of the seedling the 

 solution becomes weaker and weaker. 



Pearl and Dunbar ('05) found that Paramecium in small vessels were 

 dwarfed. This is due most likely to the accumulation of excreted 

 matter. In fact almost every case of this kind among aquatic animals 

 can be so explained. 



8. Alternation of Conditions. — In connection with some of the experi- 

 ments on heat and cold, a jar was moved from the warm to the cold, and 

 vice versa, at two weekly intervals for a period of two months, with 

 the very striking result that the alternated snails were larger at the 

 end of that time than those kept in the warm all of the time. This 

 result was accomplished notwithstanding the fact that, when in the 

 cold, the water in the alternate jars was sometimes frozen. This 

 experiment led to a series of experiments in the same line, and although 

 many were as striking as the first, yet the larger snails were those, as a 

 general rule, that had been in the warm room all the time. This con- 

 trol in the warm room was every two weeks transferred to a jar from the 

 cold conditions, while at the same time the jar in which they had been 

 living was placed in the cold and snails that had lived in the cold all the 

 time added. This process of changing the snails was performed every 

 two weeks or every week. The interval of alternation is given in the 

 tables. See Tables VIII-XX. Not only were alternate conditions 

 of heat and cold considered, but also alternating conditions of starving 

 and feeding and light and dark. The latter experiments are not of 

 particular interest, as the alternated snails are purely intermediate 

 in size between those under favorable and those under unfavorable 

 conditions. The starving and feeding experiments, however, closely 

 approximated those of heat and cold. Some were larger and some 

 were smaller than the control. These results must mean that the 

 change from an unfavorable to a favorable condition causes the snail to 

 grow faster than if it were continually in the favorable condition. 



9, Experiments on Tadpoles. — As Yung ('85) performed some experi- 

 ments on the effect of external conditions on tadpoles, arriving at the 

 same conclusion as did Willem ('96), i.e., that dwarfing was caused by 

 lack of aeration, the writer, using the methods described in the preced- 

 ing pages, repeated these experiments with tadpoles of Rana in the 

 spring of 1907. 




442 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jwly, 



Table XVIII — Alternate Heat and Cold. 



Ex. 



Days. 



149 A 

 B 



150 A 

 B 



151A 

 B 



152A 

 B 



153A 

 B 



154 A 

 B 



155 A 

 B 



156 A 

 B 



157 A 

 B 



158A 

 B 



159A 

 B 



209A 

 B 



210A 

 B 



211A 

 B 

 C 



212A 

 B 

 C 



52 



52 

 61 

 52 

 52 

 45 

 42 

 42 

 42 

 48 

 48 

 42 

 42 

 44 



44 



No. 

 beg. 



No. 

 end. 



1 

 4 

 4 

 3 

 10 

 7 

 2 

 2 

 2 

 2 



1 

 5 

 7 

 4 

 4 

 8 

 8 

 2 

 2 

 2 

 2 

 3 

 2 

 4 

 4 

 5 

 5 

 4 

 5 

 5 

 4 



Variable. 



Alt. 2 weeks. 

 AVarm. 

 Alt. 2 weeks. 

 Warm. 

 Alt. 2 weeks. 

 Warm. 

 Alt. 1 week. 

 Warm. 

 Alt. 1 week. 

 Warm. 

 Alt. 1 week. 

 Warm. 

 -\lt. 1 week. 

 Warm. 

 Alt. 2 weeks. 

 Warm. 

 Alt. 2 weeks. 

 AVann. 

 .A.lt. 1 week. 

 Warm. 

 Alt. 1 week. 

 Warm. 

 .\lt. 1 week. 

 Warm. 

 Alt. 2 weeks. 

 Warm. 

 Alt. 2 weeks, 

 Alt. 2 weeks, 

 Heat. 



.\lt. 1 week. 

 Alt Iweek. 

 Heat. 



Constaut. 



Size. Dif, 



N. 500 cc. 

 W. P. 500 cc. 

 W. P. 500 cc. 

 N. 500 cc. 

 N. 500 cc. 

 N. 500 cc. 

 W. P. 750 cc. 

 W. P. 750 cc. 

 W. P. 750 cc. 

 X. 500 cc. 

 N. 500 cc. 

 W. P. 750 cc. 

 W. P. 750 cc. 

 W. P. 750 cc. 



W. P. 750 cc. 



.0110 

 .0055 

 .0078; 

 .0035 

 .0086j 

 .0062! 



4.4 



4.5 



4.9 



5.6 



6.0 



8.5 



5.0 



5.9 



5.6 



6.5 



3.5 



3.1 



3.0 



6.5 



3.1 



5.2 



10.2 



4.4 



6.3 



7.2 



6.1 



4.2 



7.6 



6.6 



6.7 



8.0 



Per 



cent. 



.0055! 



.0043 



.0024 



..7 



2.5 



3.5 



2.1 



5.8 



2.5 



1.4 



23% 

 23% 

 10% 



.02% 

 12% 

 29% 



15% 



14% 

 11% 



54% 



40% 



57% 



12% 

 34% 



18% 



Table XIX — ^Alternate Light and Dark. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Table XX — Alternate Starving and Feeding. 



443 



The results — which may be classed as follows : effect of artificial aera- 

 tion, of surface aeration, of volume, of number of individuals — were 

 exactly the same as those found for Lymnma. 



VI. Effect of External Conditions on the Number of Eggs Laid. 



To supplement the experiments on the effect of external conditions on 

 growth, and to observe the effect of external conditions on some 

 physiological process rather different from growth, the following series 

 of experiments was arranged. When adult Lymncea is brought into 

 the warm laboratory in the late winter or early spring it laj^s an im- 

 mense number of fertile eggs. This fact was made the basis of some 

 experiments. Snails gathered at such a time were placed under 

 various conditions and the number of eggs laid during a given time 

 recorded. Conditions that one would not consider to have any effect 

 whatever on fertihty were quite effective in their results. 



1. Sediment. — As we have seen on p. 424, the presence of sediment 

 is beneficial to snail growth, yet the presence of sediment is also of 

 advantage in increasing the fertility of the snail. 



Four adult snails were isolated in four jars with a small amount of 

 sediment, and four jars were similarly treated without the sediment. 

 At the end of some days the eggs in each jar were counted. See Table 

 XXI. 




444 



PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Table XXI. 



[July 



The total of 162 in favor of the sediment is quite striking, against the 

 total of 58 eggs without sediment, yet the small number of snails in the 

 experiment must not be overlooked. As the writer did not have a 

 chance to repeat this experiment its value is only suggestive. 



2. Number of Individuals. — In each of seven jars with Ceratophyllum 

 was placed a single snail. In seven other jars similarly arranged were 

 placed two snails each. In ten days the seven snails in seven jars 

 laid 1,149 eggs. The fourteen snails in seven jars laid 1,277 eggs. 



The result of this experiment is similar to the growth experiment. 

 In other words two snails in a jar together do not lay twice as 

 many eggs as a single individual, but each snail lays only half as many 

 eggs as when it is alone in the jar. Thus again is illustrated the bad 

 effect of the presence of the waste products of metabolism in the water. 



3. Effect of Light. — In each of twelve similar jars one snail was 

 placed and Ceratophyllum was added to each jar. Six jars were placed 



Table XXII. 




1908.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



445 



in diffused daylight and six in the dark. During the daytime the jar 

 in the hght had the temperature about two degrees higher than those 

 in the dark. As the snails were of slightly different sizes, all the 

 jars were placed in a row with the snails in series from the largest to 

 the smallest. Every other jar was then put in the dark. The experi- 

 ment ran 8 days. In the following table the number of egg capsules 

 laid and the total number of eggs per individual is indicated. One 

 snail died in the dark and one died in the light. Both are left out of 

 account in the table. 



It will be seen that those in the hght laid nearly twice as many eggs 

 as in the dark. 



5. Other Effects and Observations. — Snails brought into the labora- 

 tory from the ponds lay at first a great number of eggs in a single egg 

 case, and the masses laid subsequently contain fewer and fewer eggs. 

 (See Table XXIII.) Placing two individuals together does not have an 

 effect of revivifying the fertility of the snail, but has the opposite 

 effect. 



Table XXIII. 



Table showing the number of eggs in successively laid egg cases after the snail 

 is brought into a warm room from out of doors in the winter time. 



The last eggs laid by these snails are sometimes quite abnormal. 

 Sometimes the eggs are fused, sometimes there is a capsule or a num- 

 ber of small capsules without a single egg. 

 29 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



Some snails prefer to lay their eggs on the water plant, others alwaj'S 

 lay their eggs on the glass jar, while still others show no preference at 

 all. 



VII. Summary of the Conclusions. 



1. The effect of Myriophylliim and of Elodea on the growth of Lytn- 

 7icea is quite complex. That it is not a simple factor that is being dealt 

 with is indicated by the inconstancy of the results of the experiments. 

 Notwithstanding the fact that one factor has been isolated, yet it is 

 probable that there are other factors besides. This determined factor 

 is the presence or absence of sand in the so-called "gizzard." In the 

 latter case plant tissue, although ingested cannot be assimilated, so 

 that the snail is smaller because it actually lacks food. On the other 

 hand it is possible that the products of plant metabolism may have a 

 harmful effect on the growing snail. 



2. The accumulations of fsecal matter of Lymncea, instead of having 

 the harmful effect on growth as described by De Varigny ('94), when 

 washed and filtered, have a beneficial effect. These tangled masses 

 of unassimilated food form a great harbor for algse, and so increase the 

 food supply of the snail. 



3. The "original planting" of the aquarium, i.e., algse accidentally 

 introduced with the water, causes great variation in the size of the 

 snails. 



4. Experiments on artificial aeration confirm the conclusions of Yung 

 and Willem; yet experiments on surface aeration do not seem so clear. 



5. Vernon reported that Echinoderm larvae raised in solutions in 

 which other larvae had been raised were dwarfed. De Varigny found 

 the same thing true for Lymncea. Experiments on Lymncea columella 

 confirm the results of the two authors referred to. Weak solutions 

 were found beneficial and concentrated solutions harmful. Experi- 

 ments using urea gave the same result. AVliy dilute solutions of 

 excreted matter and urea are beneficial and concentrated solutions are 

 harmful may be explained in the following way. The presence of the 

 excretions which contain plant food may cause more algse, snail food, 

 to grow; on the other hand the solutions are harmful to snail growth. 

 In dilute solutions, however, the quantity of toxic substance may be 

 so little harmful that an increase of food will overbalance the harmful 

 effect. However, this explanation is not very satisfactory as the 

 Echinoderm larva experimented on by Vernon had no mouth and so 

 did not eat. 



6. As Semper and De A^arigny showed, the number of individuals in 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



a jar affect the rate of growth. The cause is probably due to increased 

 secretions and perhaps to diminished aeration. 



7. Calcium salts in the water seem on the whole beneficial to growth 

 — calcium sulphate particularly so. 



8. Growth of Lymncea is inhibited by cold, as Semper reported. This 

 factor may act in two ways — directly on the physiological processes of 

 the animal and indirectlj^ through the inability to procure food, the 

 snail becoming too sluggish to search for it. 



9. Area. The cause that De Varigny advanced to explain dwarfing 

 was lack of exercise on the part of the snail. The greater the place to 

 crawl, the greater the snail. However, when aeration was kept con- 

 stant, which De Varigny failed to do, the results were not significant. 



10. Volume. That the volume of the medium affects the growth of 

 Lymncea is certain. Willem explains the fact on the ground of aeration. 

 The author accepts this view, but considers that the more concentrated 

 excretions in smaller volumes must play an equal part. 



11. Alternate Conditions. Snails under unfavorable conditions 

 when placed under favorable ones grow faster than if they were con- 

 tinuously in favorable conditions. It would seem that the change 

 from unfavorable to favorable conditions of life acts as a stimulant for 

 growth. However, this does not always mean that it surpasses the 

 control size. It rarely does that. 



12. Not only does the environment affect growth, but it affects the 

 number of eggs laid in a given time. This fact is very important, 

 because it shows that the environment probably affects all the physio- 

 logical processes and not one alone. 



13. This study reveals the fact that confinement influences the 

 growth of aquatic animals in three ways — through the amount of food, 

 through the amount of oxygen and through the accumulations of the 

 waste products of metabolism. The phenomenon is not a simple one 

 and each factor plays its own part. 



Literature Referred to, 



Bessey, C. E. 1892. Botany, 7th edition. 



BROCKMEiEii, H. 1898. Siisswasserschnecken als Planktonfischer. Forch-Bci . 

 Biol. Sta. Plon., Th. VI, p. 165. 



Clowes, F., and Coleman, J. B. 1903. Quantitative Chemical Analysis, p. 323. 



Cooke, A. H. 1895. Cambridge Natural History, Mollusks, pp. 94-95. 



CuviER. 1817. Memoire SUV le Limnee et le Planorbe. 



Dandino, J. B. 1904. Relation of Mass Action and Physical Affinity to 

 Toxicity, with Incidental Discussions as to how far Electrolytic Dissociation 

 may be Involyed. Am. Jour. Sci., ^^ol. XVII, 4th series, p. 437. 



Davenport, C. B. 1899. Experimental Morphology, ^'ol. II, pp. 473-478. 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



FoREL. 1874. Mateiiaux pour servir k I'etude de la faune profonde du lac 

 Leman. Bull. Soc. Vaud. Sci. Nat., t. XII, p. 72. 



. 1904. La Leman, p. 103. 



Hyatt, A. 1880. Changes in the Shell of Lymnsea megasoma produced by 



Confinement. Aiii. Nat., Vol. XIV, p. 51. 

 Hogg, J. 1854. Observations on the Development and Growth of the AVater 



Snail LAanniEus stagnalis. Quar. Jour. Mic. Sci., Vol. II, p. 91. 

 Moquin-Tandon. 1855. Histoire Naturelle des Mollusques terrestres et fluvia- 



tiles de France, Paris, 1. 1, p. 81. 

 Pearl, R., and Dunbar, F. J. Some Results of a Study of Variation in Para 



mecium. Mich. Acad, of Sci., 7th Arm. Rep. 

 Rathay, E. 1898. Ueber den Frass von Helix hortensis auf Baumrinden. Zeit 



f. Pfanzenkr., Bd. VIII, p. 129. 

 Sachs, J. 1875. A Text-book of Botany, Oxford, Eng. trans., p. 621. 

 Semper, C. 1874. Ueber die Wachsthums-Bedingungen des Lymnieus stag- 

 nalis. Arb. Zool.-Zoot. Inst., Wurzburg, Bd. I, pp. 138-167. 



. 1879. Animal Life. International Scientific Series, pp. 160-167. 



Sterki, V. 1895. Food of the Limnasidse. Nautilus, A'ol. V, p. 94. 



DE Varigny, H. 1892. Experimental Evolution. Nature Series, pp. 79-88. 



. 1894. Recherches sur le nanisme experimental. Contribution a I'etude 



de I'influence du milieu sur les organismes. Jour. Anat. et Phvs., Paris, 



t. XXX, pp. 147-188. 

 . 1895. Note sur le period de croissance chez Lymna^a stagnalis. Bull. 



Mus. Hist. Nat., Paris, 1. 1, pp. 131-132. 

 Vernon, H. M. 1895. Effects of Environment on the Development of Echi- 



noderm Larvs. Pliil. Trans. Roy. Soc. London, Vol. CLXXXVI, pp. 577- 



632. 

 . 1899. The Relations between Animal and Vegetable Life. Mitth. aus 



der Zool. Sta. zu Neapel, Bd. XIII, p. 334. 



. 1903. Variation in Animals and Plants. Int. Nat. Sci. Series. 



Walter, H. E. 1906. Behavior of the Pond Snail Lymnsus elodes. Cold 



Spring Harbor Monographs, VI. 

 Warren. 1900. Changes in Environment of Daphnia. Quar. Jour, of Mic. 



Sci., Vol. XLIII, p. 212. 

 Whitf'ield. 1882. Description of Lymmiea megasoma Say, with an Accoimt of 



Changes produced in the Offspring bv Unfavorable Conditions of Life. Bull. 



.\ni. Mus. Nat. Hist., Vol I, p. 29. 

 Willem, V. 1896. Observations sur la respiration cutanee des Lymnees et 



son influence sur leur croissance. Bull, de I'Acad. Rov. des Sci. Brussels, 



t. XXXII, p. 566. 

 Yung, E. 1878. Contributions a I'histoire de I'influence des milieux physiques 



sur les etres savants. Arch. Zool. Exper. et Gen., t. VII, pp. 25 1-282 . 

 . 1880. De I'influence des lumieres colorees sur le developpement des 



animaiLx. Mitth. a. d. Zool. Stat, zu Neapel, Bd. II, pp. 233--237. 

 ■ . 1885. De I'influence des variations du milieu physico-chemique sur le 



developpement des animaux. Arch, des Sci. Phys. 'et Nat., t. XIV, pp. 



502-522. 

 . 1888. Contributions a I'histoire phvsiologique de I'escargot' (Helix 



pomatia). Mem. Cour., t. XLIX, p. 119." 

 . 1892. Comp. Rend., CXV, pp. 620, 621, October 24. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



THE DIRECTIVE INFLUENCE OF LIGHT ON THE GROWTH OF FOREST PLANTS. 

 BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D. 



It is a well-known fact that light exercises a directive influence upon 

 plants. This directive influence is called heliotropism, or photo- 

 tropism. When a plant is grown in the window of a room, so that it 

 is unequally illuminated, that is, more powerfully through the window, 

 its leaves and even its stem are turned toward the incident rays of 

 light. This is known as positive heliotropism. If the common English 

 ivy, Hedera helix, be grown in pots by a north window, so as to 

 emphasize better the difference in light intensities, in about four 

 weeks it will be apparent that the growing sprouts are bending toward 

 the inner part of the room, away from the stronger light. This reaction 

 is negative heliotropism. 



The growth of forest plants is largely a question of light relationship. 

 Foresters recognize this fact and group trees into those intolerant of 

 the shade and those that are tolerant. The herbaceous plants, like- 

 wise, are influenced by the light which filters through the crown of 

 leaves above. The herbaceous spring flora of the forest requires more 

 light than the relatively few^ plants which flower in the autumn require, 

 when the trees are covered with foliage. These facts, although they 

 can be proved experimentally, are not always demonstrable to the 

 uninitiated. One of the best illustrations that the writer has seen 

 is the directive influence of light upon the leaves, or fronds, of the hay- 

 scented fern, Dicksonia pilosiuscula (= Dennstoedtia punctilobvla) , 

 which is widely distributed on open hillsides from New Brunswick and 

 Ontario to Indiana and Minnesota, south to Alabama and Tennessee, 

 ascending to 1680 m. in Virginia. The stipes of this fern are pale 

 green and chaffless, covered with fine hairs, and the leaves (10 dm. 

 long, 12-20 cm. wide) are ovate-lanceolate, acute or acuminate, fre- 

 quently long attenuate, usually tri-pinnatifid, thin and delicate in 

 the woods, tougher, more inrolled and more erect in the sun; rachis and 

 under surface of blades glandular pubescent. The observations 

 which the writer wishes to record on the directive influence of light 

 upon the position of the fronds were made at Pocono Pines, Monroe 

 County, Pennsylvania, where this fern is one of the most abundant 

 species. As the photograph will show (PI. XXIV), the upper surfaces 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



of the leaves are turned toward the hght, if the ilhimination is one- 

 sided. If the ilhimination is from all sides of the fern clump, then 

 there is no particular direction in which the leaf-blades face. The 

 one-sided illumination is obtained when the ferns grow along the 

 edge of the woods, composed in the Pocono region of white pines, 

 white birches, black spruces, beeches and maples, which on account of 

 their dense crown cut off much of the light from behind and above, 

 so that such woods can be called appropriately dark woods. The 

 photograph shows how all the leaves of a single patch are turned out- 

 ward toward the open field adjoining the woods, in obedience to the 

 directive influence of the light, so that the leaves stand, row after row, 

 all facing in one direction. 



The second and more striking example of the directive influence of 

 light is illustrated by the hobble-hush, Viburnum lantanoides (= V. 

 alnifolium), a shrub which ranges from New Brunswick to North Caro- 

 lina, western New York and ]\Iichigan, but which does not occur in the 

 woods near the City of Philadelphia. In the dark pine woods on the 

 Pocono plateau this shrub is extremely abundant, and where the 

 woods are the densest, not only are all of the branches and the leaves 

 directed by the incident rays of light, but they show permanent 

 structural changes which are induced by the directive light influence. 

 It is known that light has a most notable influence in the determina- 

 tion of the external form of a large number of plants. The develop- 

 ment of certain tissues or organs on one side of the axis of a shoot, 

 and their suppression on other parts of the plant body, may be regu- 

 lated experimentally by means of the character of the illumination. 

 This development of tissues on one side of the axis is illustrated finely 

 in the branches of adult forest-grown specimens of the hobble-bush. 

 If we examine young shrubs of this plant, illustrated in PI. XXV, 

 fig. 7, we see that the branching system follows the method of a dicha- 

 sium. The leaves in such young bushes stand perfectly horizontal, 

 so as to receive the incident rays of light on the upper surface of the 

 blade, and so as to present their profile to the observer standing in 

 front of the plant. As fig. 6 shows, they arrange themselves, when 

 viewed from above, in the pattern of a leaf mosaic, so that none of the 

 leaves overshadow the others. Such plants merely show the directive 

 influence of the light on the leaves, without showing any characteristic 

 growth differences. The same influence of light is manifested in the 

 stoloniferous branches which strike root, and which give the common 

 names hobble-bush or trip-toe to the plant (fig. 8). These plagio- 

 tropous shoots are only formed in the shade. The diminished light 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



can^be better used by such branches, to which the moist soil offers at 

 the same time an opportuntity to root. Such plagiotropous stolons 

 with elongated internodes show, however, orthotropous branches, 

 and we, therefore, have on the same shrub branches which react 

 differently to the light, some that are stoloniferous and plagiotropic, 

 others that are leaf-bearing and orthotropic. After a time, however, 

 the bushes assume a different habit by a suppression of parts, so that 

 the older stems show two horizontally directed branches (plagiotropic), 

 which separate from the common stem in a dichotomous manner. 

 Now if we examine figs. 1 and 2 of PI. XXV, we see that all of the lateral 

 spurs that are formed from such a plagiotropic branch are placed on the 

 upper side (orthotropous), where their leaves receive to the best advan- 

 tage the light which filters down through the leafy canopy above. 

 Each segment of such a branch represents a sympodium, where there 

 are a series of phytons placed one after the other in serial order. By 

 this method of sympodial branching, each new branch with the sup- 

 pression of a bud on the other side and torsion of the axis, terminates 

 in a leafy extremity, and the elongation of the branch according to 

 this arrangement depends on a lateral bud (fig. 3). In this case clearly, 

 as all of the leaves are directed dorsiventrally by light relationship, 

 the permanent branching system is determined largely by the influence 

 which the light has had in producing a one-sided growth of the lateral 

 dichotomous branches of the adult plants. The fruit stands vertically 

 above the broad, cordate leaves, as shown in figs. 4 and 5. Attention 

 might be directed in closing to the color change which takes place in 

 the leaves with the approach of autumn. The leaves become bronzed 

 to a greater or less extent. Sometimes the bronze is in the form of 

 blotches. In other leaves one side is bronzed, the other side is green, 

 and in many examples the whole leaf rapidly bronzes. What induces 

 the bronzing of one side of the leaf first, while the other side remains 

 of a bright green color? Is it a light reaction? The photograph in 

 PI. XXIV was taken by Mrs. Harshberger; the drawings reproduced 

 in PI. XXV were made from rough drawings and data furnished Mr. 

 Louis Schmidt by the writer. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



A COMPARISON OF THE LAND-SNAIL FAUNA OF KOREA WITH THE FAUNAS 

 OF JAPAN AND CHINA. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The compilation of a list of Korean land molliisks gives occasion for 

 a comparison of that fauna with the favmas of China and Japan. In 

 the list of Korean land snails published by Dr. O. von Moellendorff in 

 1887,^ some 26 species are catalogued; of this number, 7 are stated to 

 be common to Japan, 3 to China, and 2 (omitting the doubtful Helix 

 ciliosa) to both countries. 



The fruitful researches conducted by Mr. Y. Hirase have increased 

 the roll of known Korean forms to 58. This number is no doubt a 

 mere fragment of the total fauna; yet it is enough to show the domi- 

 nance of Japanese over Chinese forms in Korea. This preponderance 

 can only be explained by the theory that the submergence of the 

 straits between Kyushu and Korea is a geologically recent event. 

 From the large proportion of Japanese species existing in Korea, this 

 submergence may probably have taken place not earlier than the 

 Pliocene. 



Twenty-one Japanese species occur in Korea and Quelpart. Se\en 

 Chinese species occur in Korea and Quelpart, Four of these species 

 are common to Japan and China. The great preponderance of char- 

 acteristically Japanese over Chinese species is thus evident. Thirty- 

 two species and subspecies, out of a total of fifty-eight, are peculiar 

 to Korea including Quelpart. 



So much for the numerical relations of the species. The faunas may 

 also be compared qualitatively. All of the genera and subgenera of 

 the Korean fauna occur in Japan. In the Clausiliidce all the species 

 of Quelpart and Korea belong to Eiiphcedusa, a group of minor import- 

 ance in Japan, but extending farther north on the Asiatic mainland 

 than any other group of Clausilise. The genus Ganesella, well repre- 

 sented in Japan, seems to be absent in Korea, unless the species 

 described as Helix (Satsuma) gradata proves to belong to Ganesella, 

 which seems improbable. The absence of Ganesella and of Clausiliidoe, 

 other than Euphcedusa, are the most conspicuous discrepancies between 



* Jahrbucher d. Deutschen Malakozoologischen Gesellschaft, XIV, 1887, pp. 9-22. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



the faiinse of ^Quelpart and Tsushima. By the prevalence of Henii- 

 phcedusa, Ganesella and Plectotropis, Tsushima is wholly Japanese in 

 its snail fauna, while Quelpart is as unequivocally Korean. The 

 political boundaries of Japan and Korea coincide therefore with the 

 faunal limits. The largely deforested condition of Quelpart and Korea 

 is probably responsible for its rather poor land shell fauna. 



In the following table, the "Korea" column is compiled from Dr. 

 von Moellendorff's paper and the collections of Mr. Hirase, deter- 

 mined by the author. The column "Korean Archipelago" contains 

 a few species reported with that indefinite locality by Pfeiffer and A. 

 Adams. The "Quelpart" column contains species collected by Mr. 

 Kuroda, part of them identified by the writer, the others quoted from 

 Mr. Kuroda's list.^ The "Matsushima" (Dagelet Island) species were 

 recorded by Arthur Adams, who visited that island when surgeon on 

 board H. M. S. "Actseon." In the column of "Remarks" sundry 

 notes on the affinities of the species find place. 



^ The Conchological Magazine, II, June, 1908, pp. 25-29. 




454 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[August, 



p s 



^ ■» CO 2 d 



PuO 



:P-i 



Wp4 





^•2'^ S § h e s 



jfliilll- 





"G.g s 



^52 2 



o p o , «5 

 55 SI, Si -^ 



o e 







5 s 





C) ci.66c^ 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



455 



1**1111*111*11 



11*111* 1*** I 



M I I I I 1 I I I I I I I I I I II 1 1 1* I 1 1 1 1 I I I 

 I * I 1** I I* I I I* 1* I** I I 1* I I 1 1* I I*** 



111111111**11111111111111111111 



1* 



* 1 1 1* 1* 1 1 



I* 1 



****** 



1 I 



I 1 



1 1 



11111111111111*1 



I I 



S"S • - 



2 2 diS 

 «C3 >rr' 





•2 s S- - 



-i § i' 



^ S e 



« o 



-SI " 



>^W 



51^ Oh" 



T3! 







S^'W 



31 



4^ ^^i^ 





-« . . S 



"C -^ ^ 3 



■ ^^^ h e 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [(3ct., 



October 6. 

 Mr. Frank J. Keeley in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



The Secretaries, Librarian and Curators reported on the work accom- 

 pHshed during the summer vacation. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the fol- 

 lowing titles had been presented for publication since the last meeting : 



" Description of Trachypterus seleniris, a New Species of Ribbon 

 Fish from Monterey Bay, California," by John Otterbein Snyder 

 (May 30). 



" Some Polychsetous Annelids from the Northern Pacific Coast of 

 North America," by J. Percy Moore (June 16). 



"An Orthopterological Reconnaissance of the Southwestern United 

 States: Part II, Arizona," by James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard 

 (June 26). 



''Notes on the Distribution of Colorado Mammals, with a Descrip- 

 tion of a New Species of Bat (Eptesicus pallid us)," by Robert T. 

 Young (July 16). 



"Some Effects of Environment on the Growth of Lymnaea columella 

 Say," by Harold Sellers Colton (July 25). 



"The Directive Influence of Light on the Growth of Forest Plants," 

 by John W. Harshberger, Ph.D. (August 9). 



"A Comparison of the Land-Snail Fauna of Korea with the Faunas 

 of Japan and China," by Henry A. Pilsbry (September 5). 



"The Composition and Ecological Relations of the Odonate Fauna 

 of Mexico and Central America," by Philip P. Calvert (September 17). 



The deaths of the following members were announced : Samuel 

 G. Rosengarten, May 15, 1908; Stephen Greene, May 21, 1908; Benja- 

 min Bullock, March 4, 1908; Ehzabeth S. Bladen, August 19, 1908; 

 Jacob F. Holt, August 3, 1908, and William G. Freedly, October 3, 

 1908. 



In announcing the death of William S. Vaux, Jr., which occurred 

 July 23, 1908, the Secretary remarked that it inflicted a loss of which 

 the Academy is immediately conscious. He was born April 1, 

 1872, and continued the traditions of his family by manifesting an 

 active interest in the work and well-being of the Academy. He con- 

 tributed to the Proceedings, in conjunction with his brother, important 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



reports on glacier movements in the Canadian Rockies. He served 

 as Curator since January, 1905, and gave special attention, valuable 

 because of his ability as an architect, to the plans for the alteration and 

 extension of the premises made possible by the recent appropriation 

 of $150,000 by the Legislature of Pennsylvania. His singularly 

 engaging personality and amiable disposition endeared him to his 

 associates, and the Academy deeply sympathizes with the loss his 

 family has sustained in his untimely death. 



The deaths of the follo^^^ng Correspondents were also announced: 

 Spiridione Brusina, May 21, 1908, and Gustav Mayer, July 14, 1908. 



October 20. 



Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of a paper entitled 

 "A Review of the Genus Piaya Lesson," by Witmer Stone (October 14). 



Recent Additions to Our Knowledge of the Flora of Southern New 

 Jersey. — Mr. Witmer Stone based his remarks on the work of the 

 Philadelphia Botanical Club, especially during the past few years. 



Taking Dr. Britton's Catalogue of the Flora of New Jersey, published 

 in 1889, he stated that twenty-six phanerogams and ptcridophytes 

 had been added by the Club since that date, exclusive of the numerous 

 subdivisions that have been made of older species or closely allied 

 species not recognized as distinct b}^ Dr. Britton. Of the latter he 

 had listed fifty-five not in Dr. Britton's Catalogue and doubtless there 

 are others. Introduced or naturalized plants were not considered in 

 either enumeration. The twenty-six species were as follows, the 

 nomenclature following Britton's Manual : 



Ophioglossum arenarium. — Originally discovered by Mrs. E. G. 

 Britton, July 3, 1897, at Holly Beach, and later exterminated by a 

 Ijuilding operation. This species was rediscovered during the present 

 year by Mr. Joseph Crawford at Longport, and by Mr. Bayard Long 

 at Spray Beach. 



Dryopteris simulata. — Discovered several years ago at Clementon 

 by Mr. Stewardson Brown; later found at Sicklerville, Cedar Brook, 

 Double Trouble, and Forked River. 



Isoetes dodgei. — Collected at Fish House, on the Delaware, by Mr. 

 W. A. Poyser. 



Alisma tenellum. — Discovered in August, 1907, on the border of a 

 pond a short distance above Delanco by i\Iessrs. Brown, Van Pelt 

 and Stone. In the same pond grew Scirpus torreyi, new to the State, 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



and Eleocharis rohbinsii, which had not before been found out of the 

 pine barrens, while on the swampy margin occurred Eleocharis melano- 

 carpa, a species not before detected by the Chib. It was found to be 

 rooting at the tips of the leaves like E. rosteUata. The occurrence 

 of so many new^ or rare species in one spot was remarkable. 



Manisuris rugosa. — Discovered in southwestern Cape May County, 

 by Mr. O. H. Brown, August, 1908. 



Paspalum glahratum. — Found in September, 1891, at Cape I\Iay 

 by several members of the Club; since cliscovered at Cold Spring. 



Panicum condensum Nash. — Collected at Piermont, September 1 ,1902, 

 by the speaker, and by Mr. S. S. Van Pelt at Holly Beach; since found 

 at Cold Spring ( = ' Brachiaria digitarioides ' Stone, Torreya, 1907, p. ;)9). 



CJuetochloa magna. — Collected near Cape May Point in August, 1891, 

 by the speaker. 



Saccolepis gihba. — Found on the shores of lily Lake, Cape i\Iay 

 Point, by Mr. C. S. Williamson, September, 1905. 



Aristida lanosa. — Found at Medford, N. J., by Messrs. W. Stone and 

 S. Brown, September 15, 1901. 



Sporoholus longifolius. — Discovered September, 1908, at Cape ^lay 

 by Mr. 0. H. Brown. 



Gymnopogon hrevifolius. — Found by Mr. C. D. Lippincott at Swedes- 

 boro, September 2, 1894, and later at Cape May, by J\Ir. O. H. Brown. 



Agrostis coarctata. — Discovered by the late U. C. Smith at Anglesea, 

 July 4, 1907. 



Cyperus pseudovegetus. — Found by Mr. C. D. Lippincott at Riddle- 

 ton. September 16, 1894, and still plentiful at the same spot. 



Eleocharis interstincta. — Discovered by the late Dr. J. B. Brinton at 

 Repaupo, July 15, 1892. 



Eleocharis ochreata. — Found at Cape May Point, September, 1905, 

 by Mr. S. S. Van Pelt. 



Scirpus torreyi. — Detected by the speaker at Delanco as stated above. 



Rynchospora oligantha. — Found at Speedwell, in the heart of the pine 

 barrens, by Mr. S. S. Van Pelt, July, 1906. 



Rynchospora rariflora. — Discovered by the speaker west of Bennett, 

 Cape May County, August 4, 1907. 



Juncus setaceus. — First 'collected by Mr. Joseph Crawford in Cape 

 May County, July 15, 1892, and later found to be rather plentiful in 

 that section. 



Gymnandeniopsis nivea. — Found by Mr. Bayard Long near Bennett, 

 Cape May County, July 24, 1907. It was later found to be plentiful 

 over a limited area. 



Quercus michauxi. — Found by Messrs. Stewardson Brown and 

 Edward Harris at Moorestown, October, 1902. 



Rumex hastatulus. — Discovered at Longport by Messrs. Joseph 

 Crawford and Stewardson Brown, June 23, 1907. 



Bradburya virginica. — Discovered bv the late J. B. Brinton, ]\I.D., 

 at Holly Beach, July 24. 1892. 



Boltonia asteroides. — Found by Mr. Long growing with Gymnan- 

 deniopsis nivea; known before from New Jersey only as an introduced 

 species. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 459 



Senecio crawfordii. — Originally discovered at Tullj^town, Pa., this 

 species has recently been found at several points on the New Jersey 

 side of the river. 



Among rare species marked in Dr. Britton's Catalogue as not recently 

 collected several have been rediscovered : 



Triglochin maritima was found at Point Pleasant bv Mr. Stewardson 

 Brown, July 22, 1902. 



Tofieldia racemosa, collected by i\Ir. C. F. Saunders between Atsion 

 and Tuckerton on July 4, 1899, and later found in abundance at several 

 places near Speedwell and at High Bridge by the speaker. 



Lilceopsis lineata. — Perhaps the most interesting discovery of the 

 present year was the finding by Mr. Van Pelt and the speaker of this 

 obscure little plant about a mile below Palermo, where a fresh spring 

 bubbles up out of the salt marsh, making a hard sandy bottom which 

 was literally covered with Lilceopsis. The plant has been unknown 

 from the State since its discovery by Thomas Nuttall, nearly one 

 hundred years ago, "in a salt marsh near Egg Harbor." As the 

 present spot is only a few miles from the shore of Egg Harbor it is 

 quite possible that it is Nuttall's original locality. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



THE COMPOSITION AND ECOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE ODONATE FAUNA 

 OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA. 



by philip p. calvert. 



Contents. 



General Conditions determining Odonate Distribution. 



The Chief Odonatological Features of Mexico and Central America. 



Relations of the Mexican-Central American Odonate Fauna to those of other 



Areas. 

 Distribution of the Odonata within limited portions of Mexico and Central 



America. 

 Relations of the Odonate Fauna of Mexico and Central America to Temperature, 



Rainfall, Vegetation Areas and Altitude. 



The preparation of an extended account^ of the Odonata of Mexico 

 and Central America has induced me to study the relations of these 

 insects to various factors of their environment, with the results here 

 set forth. The facts on which this study is based, in so far as the 

 Odonata are concerned, are contained in the Biologia volume, to 

 which reference must be made for further details. Since the comple- 

 tion of that work, I have received, through the kindness of Mr. H. T. 

 Van Ostrand, specimens of Enallagma prcevarum, Opionceschiia armata 

 and Sym'petrum, illotum virgulum, taken at or near Real del Monte, 

 Hidalgo, Mexico, which add to our knowledge of the distribution of 

 these three species as given in the Biologia. The first and third are 

 labelled as having been captured at 9,000 feet elevation, or the highest 

 altitude yet recorded for Odonata in Mexico or Central America. 

 These additional data are included in the following pages. 



General Conditions Determining Odonate Distribution. 



The actual distribution of the Odonata is determined by the con- 

 ditions under which their aquatic larvae are able to exist. The dis- 

 tribution of the larvae, so far as the present region is concerned, is almost 

 entirely unknown. Our present information refers to the appearance 

 of the imagos in certain localities, and the summary herewith presented 



^ Odonata, by P. P. Calvert, forming pp. 17-420 and Introduction, pp. v-xxx 

 of volume Neuroptera of the Biologia Centrali Americana, edited by F. D. God- 

 man. London, 1901-1908. 4to. 9 plates, 1 map. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



rests on the unproven assumption that the adults do not wander 

 far from the waters in which they have passed their earUer stages or 

 in which their offspring are capable of surviving. This assumption 

 is one of the weaknesses in the following attempted generalizations; 

 another is the real scantiness of our knowledge of the distribution of 

 even the winged individuals. How scanty this is may be seen by a 

 glance over the list of localities in Honduras, Nicaragua, etc., in Table 

 A and in the columns for these countries in Table B of the Introduction 

 to the Biologia volume quoted and a study of Tables 6-8 of the 

 present paper. 



It must be distinctly understood, therefore, that all which follows 

 is subject to future correction in these two important particulars. 

 In spite of these disadvantages, however, some generalization has 

 been deliberately attempted, in the belief that by so doing progress in 

 investigation wdll be hastened much more than if no such summary 

 were ventured. 



The Chief Odonatological Features of Mexico and Central 

 America. 



These are : the practical absence of the subfamily Cordulinse,^ some 

 species of which have been recorded from corresponding latitudes in 

 the Old World. 



Absence of the following genera, conspicuous or well developed 

 in other parts of America: (a) in Northern America,^ Ophiogomphus, 

 Gomphus, Dromogomphus, Odogomphus, Celithemis, Leucorhinia; (h) 

 in South America, Lais, Thore, Euthore, Microstigma, Telagrion, 

 Leptagrion, Diastatops, Potamothemis ; (c) in the West Indies, 

 Scapanea. 



The small number of genera, seven out of seventy-one, which are 

 restricted to this area. They are Pseudostigma, Thaumatoneura, 

 Paraphlehia, Hesperagrion, Anisagrion, Oplonceschna and Pseudoleon. 

 Three of these (Hesperagrion, Oplonceschna, Pseudoleon) embrace only 

 one species each. Oplonceschna and Pseudoleon should be good fliers 

 and, therefore, one would not expect their hmited distribution. 



The unity of the district, in that only one genus {Hesperagrion) is 

 restricted to Mexico north of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, none to the 



* Already pointed out by Carpenter, Scient. Proc. Roy. Dublin Soc. (n. s.), 

 VIII, p. 450 (1897). 



^ Throughout this memoir, as in the Biologia volume on Odonata, by "North- 

 ern America" is meant all north of central Cahfornia, Arizona, New Mexico, 

 Texas and (east of this last) of the 30th parallel of north latitude. 

 30 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



area between the latter and the Isthmus of Nicaragua and only one 

 (Thaumatoneura) to the Costa Rican-Panaman section. 



The predominant Calopterygine genus is Hetcerina with 17 species out 

 of 23 for the subfamily. Several species (H. americana, tricolor, 

 titia, macropus, capitalis) show a marked tendency to reduction in size 

 of the pterostigma in some of the western portions of their ranges, 

 but the geographical areas in which this reduction is strongly marked 

 for one species (e.g., macropus in Guatemala) are not necessarily 

 those in which it is displayed by another {e.g., americana). Amphip- 

 teryx is interesting as presenting some features intermediate between 

 those of this subfamily and the Agrioninse. Only one Old World 

 genus (Calopteryx) is represented and its existence here rests on a 

 single specimen. 



Lestince. Six of the 7 species belong to the cosmopolitan Lestes. 



AgrionincB. Of 24 genera, 3 only {Argia, EnaUagma, Ischnura) 

 have been recorded from the Old World. Five of the 7 endemic 

 Odonate genera belong here. Of the 112 species, 48 belong to Argia; 

 next follow Protoneura with 7 species and Telebasis with 6. Six 

 species (of 3 genera) are of the exclusively Neotropical Pseudostig- 

 matina, including some of the linearly largest known Odonata of the 

 world. 



Gomphince. None of the genera are extra-American. Erpetogom- 

 phus is the predominant genus of the subfamily in the northern part 

 of our district, Epigomphus in the southern. 



Cordulegasterince. The single genus of our area, Cordulegastcr, 

 is Holarctic. 



Mshnince. Three {Anax, JEshna, Gynacantha) of the six genera 

 are also found in the Old World, but none of the species extends thither. 

 One of the seven endemic genera belongs here (OplonascJma) . /Eshna 

 has the largest number of species. 



Cordulince. The single record for this subfamily, from near the 

 northern limit of our district, is of the Holarctic and Pala^otropical 

 Macromia. 



Libellulince. Of 28 genera, one (Pseudoleon) is endemic, five (Libcl- 

 Ivla, Tholymis, Tramea, Pantala, Sympetrum) are regarded as also 

 occurring in the Old World. The only Odonate species common to 

 our area and to the Old World — Pantala flavescens (and Sympetrum 

 corruptum?) — are of this subfamily. Predominant genera are Libel- 

 lula, Micrathyria, Orthemis, Erythrodiplax, Brechmorhoga , Tramea, 

 Perithemis and Erythemis. 




1908.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 463 



Relations of the Mexican-Central American Odonate Fauna 



TO THOSE of other ArEAS. 



The study of the species of Odonata found over large parts of Mexico 

 has shown that, to the northward, many of them occupy also con- 

 siderable portions of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and California 

 (in the last named possibly to San Francisco), although their north- 

 ern boundary line has not been determined in any of these States.'* 

 Therefore, all species, subspecies or varieties found in Mexico and 

 Central America and which may extend also into these four States of 

 the United States, but not beyond them, nor into the West Indies 

 nor South America, have been considered as endemic. With this 

 explanation, which applies to all the tables in this paper, the general 

 relations of the Odonate fauna may be learned from an inspection of 

 Table 1. 



A further analysis of the relations of the fauna is given in Table 2, 

 wherein, passing from north to south and, in Mexico, from plateau 

 to lowlands, the decrease in the northern element and the increase in 

 the southern element is clearly shown. Even on the Mexican plateau, 

 excluding its highest portion,^ as the most northern and most elevated 

 section of the present faunal district, the southern element, measured 

 by the number of the "exclusively South American" species, is almost 

 as strong as the northern, represented by the "exclusively Northern 

 American" species'' — a striking fact when the narrow land connection 

 with South America is contrasted with the very much wider union with 

 the United States, and the geological history of the plateau is borne 

 in mind. It is of further interest to note that while 15 exclusively 

 Northern American species are found on the plateau, 14 Northern 

 American species are found in Mexico exclusive of the plateau, the 

 corresponding figures for the exclusively South American species 

 being 14 and 50. These differences are in agreement with Gadow's 



* The existing data for about 40 Mexican species would seem to show that 

 their northern boundary line may correspond with the upper hmit of the Upper 

 Sonoran of Merriam (Map in Bull. 10, U. S. Dept. Agric, Div. Biol. Surv., 1S9S) 

 in California, Arizona and New Mexico; but not east of the last named, as in 

 Texas these species are not yet known as far north as the upper limit of Mer- 

 riam's Lower Sonoran. 



* The Distrito Federal embraces much of the highest portion of the Mexican 

 plateau, having an elevation of 7200-8000 ft. or 2200-24.50 m., and has been 

 fairly well examined as regards its Odonate fauna, which numbers 21 species, 

 etc. Outside of Mexico and Central America, 6 of the 21 occur exclusively in 

 Northern America and 2 of the 21 exclusively in South America, so that here 

 the southern element is weak. 



* Contrast on this feature Bates, Biol. Centr. Ainer. Coleop., I, pt. 1, p. vi, 

 and W. Horn, Deut. ent. Zeitschr., 1897, pp. 161-2. 




464 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



O CO C ' 



t^ 1-1 00 f-H 



.^3 • 



m O t. 



_W 



O t-H O iC 



(N (N O O <0 O (N 



O O »Ci 



O i-H O CO 







O 't O O rH O O 



OOiMOOOOO 



O O (N O 



123 



O (M O O 



O O O r-l 



[Oct. 



QqO 







O O O rH 



0) ^ 







o o o o 



O CO o o 





O ^ 



(M CO IN- O 



T-H CC rH CO 





ft 



•c 



p ts ■= 





H-? 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



465 



02 to 



73 T) 



c o 

 a; c 



■^1 



.0 (U 





QJ O 

 ^ CI 



■CJ. --O "w"0 1. <U. 



^ be 



m •a 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



results for Reptiles and Batrachia: "The plateau seems to be a much 

 more effective barrier to the southerners than is the descent into the 

 hot lowlands to the northern creatures."* 



The West Indies lie within the same parallels of latitude as do Mexico 

 and Central America. The total number of species of Odonata found 

 in those islands is about 91;^ 56 of these, or 61.5%, also occur in our 

 present district. The number of species common to both is likely 

 to be increased by future explorations, especially as the Odonate 

 fauna of Yucatan and British Honduras, the continental areas lying 

 nearest to the West Indies, is very imperfectly known. But, making 

 use of the present figures, it is rather surprising that only 61.5% of 

 the West Indian Odonata are found in Mexico and Central America, 

 seeing that the prevalent winds on the east coast of the mainland are 

 easterly (i.e., northeast, east and southeast).^" With such insects 

 as the Odonata one might expect the winds to play an important part 

 as means of dispersal." The West Indian species not yet found in 

 Mexico or Central America include a number of fair-sized and prob- 

 ably fair-flying species, e.g., Aphylla produda, Progomphus integer 

 and serenus, Dythemis rufinervis, Scapanea frontalis, Macrothemis 

 celceno, Celithemis eponina, etc. 



The extent to which species common to the West Indies are found 

 in some parts of Mexico and Central America is shown in Table 3. 



The Endemic Genera and Species are summarized in Table 4, p. 468. 



Of the genera listed in Table 4 as occurring in both Northern and 

 South America, Hetcerina, Argia, Progomphus, Erythrodiplax, and per- 

 haps Dythemis, are represented by a greater number of species in South 

 America than in Northern America, and these genera are entirely, 



8 Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1905, II, p. 239. 



»Hagen, Proc. Bosi. Soc. Nat. Hist., XI, pp. 289-294 (1867); XVIII, pp. 

 20-96 (1875). Uliler, I.e., XI, pp. 295-298 (1867). Kolbe, Archiv /. Naturges., 

 LIV, I, pp. 153-178 (1888). Ivirby, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., (6) XIV, pp. 

 261-269 (1894). Carpenter, Journ. Inst. Jamaica, II, pp. 259-263 (1896). 

 Calvert, Biol. Cent. Amer. Neurop. Introd., Table B (1908). 



'° See the charts of prevailing winds accompanying Buchan's Challenger 

 Report on Atmospheric Circulation, and the data given in Table VII of the 

 Appendix thereto, pp. 169, 170, for Matamoras and Cordova, Mex., and Belize; 

 also the data for Merida, Campeche and Jalapa by Moreno y Anda and Gomez 

 in El Clima de la Eepublica Mexicana, Ano I (for 1895) and II (for 1896), Mexico 

 City, Secretaria de Fomento, 1899 and 1900. Cf. also Sapper, Mittelameri- 

 kanische Reisen und Studien, Braunschweig, 1902, p. 297. The Challenger data 

 for Blewfields, Nicar., I.e., p. 171, represent the prevailing wind as northwest, 

 which has Uttle bearing on the question of the relations of the continental and 

 West Indian Odonata. 



" On the other hand Chapman states that of the 550 species and subspecies 

 of birds recorded from the West Indies, 303, or 55%, are endemic. Bull. Amer. 

 Mus. Nat. Hist., IV, p. 318, 1892. 




190S.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



467 



Table 3. — The Relative Strength of the West Indian and South American 



Elements in Different Parts of the Odonate Fauna of 



Mexico and Central America. 



Area. 



Total number I Number of species, etc., 

 of species,! found also in the West 

 gtc 'j Indies, and their per- 



centage equivalents. 



Number of species, etc., 

 found also (outside of 

 Mexico and Cent. Amer.) 

 exclusively in S. Amer., 

 and their percentage 

 equivalents. 



Mexican plateau 81 



Mexico (asin Tables) 219 (221) 

 Yucatan and British 



Honduras 35? 



Guatemala and Hon-j 



duras I 161 (186) 



Costa Rica 101 (165) 



23 



49 (50) 



18? 



41 (50) 

 19 (45) 



28.4% 



22.4 (22.6) 



51.4 



25.5 (26.9) 

 18.8 (27.3) 



14 = 17.3% 



50 = 22.8 (22.6) 



8 = 22.8 



49 (61) = 30.4 (32.8) 

 37 (65) = 36.6 (39.4) 



(The parentheses have the same meaning as in Table 2, q. v.) 



or almost entirely {Argia), confined to the Americas. Lestes, Enal- 

 lagma, Ischnura, Mshna, LiheUula and Sympetrum are almost or quite 

 cosmopolitan, but are more abundant in the northern than in the 

 southern hemisphere. 



Of the seven endemic genera, Pseudostigma, Thaumatoneura and 

 Paraphlebia are South American in their affinities; the other four 

 are not so clear. 



Adding together the 9 species of these three genera, the 56 endemic 

 species of genera also occurring in South America but not in Northern 

 America (Table 4), and the 70 non-endemic species found elsewhere 

 exclusively in South America (Table 1), we have a total of 135 species, 

 or 46% of the fauna, as being of distinctly southern relationships. 

 Similarly, adding the 12 endemic species of genera also occurring in 

 Northern America, but not in South America (Table 4), to the 21 

 non-endemic species found elsewhere exclusively in Northern America 

 (Table 1) we have a total of 33 species, or 11% of the fauna, as being 

 of distinctly northern affiliations. 



In the endemic as well as in the non-endemic species, therefore, 

 the South American element^^ is much the strongest in Mexico and 

 Central America as a whole. 



"While the expression "South American element" has been used in these 

 pages to designate those species found at the present time in South America 

 also, there seems to be no evidence to decide whether such Odonata, or their 

 ancestors, entered Mexico and Central America from the south, or whether 

 South America received them from the former countries. Probably only further 

 discoveries of fossil Odonata will settle this question. 




468 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



I o 









3"C 



1^ 



i-HCCeO,-llO>-H.-l-rtH(MI> 0C--HIO 



"1 2-P§ ^^-o H 



lllillli 



•S:SI|IE.3| 





^3 



<^y 



(NiM 10.-H ^ 





- d c 



UJ ^ fn 



^I 



Mil OS SB 



so 







+^ o 5 i 



bC 



=3 ? . 



c3 ^-r^-r 






1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



Arranging the subfamilies in the order of their percentages of endemic 

 species, the series obtained is Cordulegasterinse {two species onl}^ 

 100%, Gomphinffi 85.7%, Agrionina? 72.2%, Calopteryginffi 47.8%, 

 Lestinse 42.8%, Libellulina? 16%o, iEshninffi 13%. The Cordulegas- 

 terinse, many Gomphinse, most Libellulinse and iEshninae have well- 

 developed powers of flight. Perhaps the great majority of the other 

 three subfamilies are feebly-flying insects, yet some of their species ap- 

 pearing in the present faunal district are very widely distributed, e.g., 

 Enallagma civile, Ischnura ramburi, Anomalagrion hastatum. It is 

 consequently impossible to account for the relative endemicity of the 

 subfamilies by such general considerations. 



If the relative endemicity of these groups is not always inversely 

 proportional to the powers of flight, as these figures seem to indicate, 

 and if nearly 40% of the West Indian Odonata are not to be found 

 in Mexico and Central America in spite of favoring winds, the expla- 

 nation of the present distribution of this group of insects may perhaps 

 be found in the past distribution of land and water^^ in these regions. 



Distribution of the Odonata within Limited Portions of 

 Mexico and Central A:\ierica. 



Table 2 and the remarks on the fauna of the Mexican plateau 

 (page 463) have already illustrated this topic to some degree. Table 

 5 gives the number of endemic species and of those common to the 

 three countries whose Odonate fauna is best known. 



Accepting the areas of Mexico (exclusive of Campeche, Yucatan and 

 Baja California), of Guatemala and of Costa Rica as approximately 

 655,000," 63,000,15 ^nd 21,000 square miles (1,700,000, 164,000 and 

 54,000 square kilometres) respectively, it follows that, in proportion 

 to its area, Costa Rica is much the richest coimtry of the three, both 

 in its total number of species and its number of endemic species. 



Tables 6-8 give the number of species and the number of locahties 

 at which they were collected in each of the States or Departments of 



'^ Compare the geological data embodied in the sketch maps of Gadow (Proc. 

 Zool. Soc. London, 1905, II, pp. 235-6); also the discussions in the papers of 

 Chapman {Bull. Ajner. Mus. Nat. Hist., IV, pp. 318, 326-9, 1892) on birds, 

 Simpson {Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVII, pp. 428, 438, 447, 1894) on land and 

 fresh-water mollusks, and Ortman {Proc. Ainer. Philos. Soc, XLI, pp. 309, 341, 

 347) on fresh- water decapods, of the West Indies. 



'* Romero, Geographical and Statistical Notes on Mexico, p. 91, New York, 

 1898. 



1^ Century Dictionary, Vol. IX, New York, 1906. Dr. Sapper gives the approxi- 

 mate area of Guatemala as only 110,000 square kilometres, Mittelamerikanische 

 Reisen u. Studien, p. 424. 




470 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct. 







8 ^ 

 O^ 




i9os; 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



471 



H 3 



^ -^ 





^3 




472 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct. 



Mexico, Guatemala and Costa Rica, respectively. In each table the 

 States or Departments are arranged in vertical columns corresponding 

 to their position on the Atlantic or Pacific slopes, and in the case of 

 Mexico also on the Central Plateau. In each vertical column the 

 names stand in order from north to south, and the States or Depart- 

 ments whose names are on the same horizontal line, in reading across 

 these tables, are, in part at least, in the same latitude. These three 

 tables exhibit the scantiness of our knowledge, however, rather than 

 actual differences in the faunas,^® 



Table 7. — Number of Species, etc., op Odonata Recorded from the 

 Departments of Guatemala, and op the Localities at 



WHICH they were COLLECTED. 



(See explanation in the text.) 



Pacific (Western) Slope. 



Atlantic (Eastern) Slope. 



Department. 



Locali- 

 ties. 



Spe- 

 cies, 

 etc. 



Department. 



Locali- ?.P^" 



ties. "f ' 

 etc. 



San Marcos 



Quezaltenango 



Retalhuleu 



Suchitepequez 



Solola 



Sacatepequez 



Amatitlan 



Escuintla 



Santa Rosa 



Totals (after deducting 

 duplications) 



20 



|Alta Vera Paz 14 



Izabal 9 



JBaja Vera Paz 6 



Zacapa 2 



Guatemala 3 



Jalapa 1 



68 



Totals (after deducting 



duplications) 35 



139 



Common to Atlantic and Pacific slopes 56 species, etc. Subtracting 56 from 

 68 + 139 gives 151 species from definite localities in Guatemala, or 10 less than 

 the total (i61) credited to that country in Tables 2 and 5. For these ten species 

 definite localities are not known and hence they could not be included in Table 7. 

 A similar difference exists between Tables 8, 5 and 2. 



" The State of Vera Cruz, lying exclusively on the Atlantic slope, extending 

 through 5i degrees (17°-22° + ) of latitude and 18,000 ft. (5,487 m.) of altitude, 

 and having an area of 29,210 square miles (75,654 square kilometres), has 118 

 species of Odonata. The State of New Jersey, U. S. A., also bordering the 

 Atlantic, reaching from 39° to 41° 15' N. and to ISOO ft. (550 m.) in elevation, 

 and with an area of 7,815 square miles (20,241 square kilometres) possesses 111 

 species of Odonata. Both areas have been examined by a number of collectors 

 of these insects, and the results do not seem to favor the general belief in the 

 richness of tropical countries in Odonata. At least 9 species are common to the 

 two areas: Hetcerina americana, Argia translata, Ischnura ramburi, Anomala- 

 grion hastatum, Anax Junius, A. longipes, LibeUula auripennis (probably). Pan- 

 tola flavescens, Sijmpetrum corruphim. As far as I am aware no data have been 

 published showing a richer Odonate fauna in a limited period of time than that 

 of the vicinity of Kent, Ohio, where Messrs. Osburn and Hine took 57 species 

 between June 17 and 24 {Ohio State University Naturalist, I, pp. 13-15, 1900). 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



473 



Table S. — Number of Species, etc., of Odonata Recorded from the 

 Departments of Costa Rica, and of the Localities 



AT WHICH they WERE COLLECTED. 



(See the explanation in the text.) 



Total number of species, etc., Pacific slope '. 67 



Total number of species, etc., Atlantic slope 59 



Total number of species, etc., common to Pacific and Atlantic slopes 28 



Although writers on other groups in the Biologia have distinguished 

 between a "North" and a "South Mexico," the division hne being near 

 the Tropic of Cancer, the data at hand for the Odonata do not seem 

 to indicate any such distinction. 



Relations of the Odonate Fauna to Teaiperature.^' 



In Plate XXVI we have given a map of the distribution of mean an- 

 nual temperatures in Mexico and Central America.^^ The topograph}^, 

 presenting a high paramesial axis running northwest and southeast 

 through the greater part of the district, has brought about the exist- 

 ence of parallel zones of temperature, decreasing in mean annual 

 intensity from each coast line to the axis. As a result the temperatures 

 are not distributed latitudinally, but a high cool tract extends far 



'' It is not intended that the remarks here made on the relations of Odonate 

 distribution to temperatvire, rainfall and other environmental factors are to be 

 interpreted as sho-\\ing the Hmits wliich these factors set to the distribution of 

 the insects in question. Our knowledge of the areas occupied by the latter is 

 still too imperfect to permit this. We may be said to know where many species 

 occur, but not where they do not occur. 



1^ Mr. C. H. T. Townsend, in his papers "On the Biogeography of Mexico, 

 Texas," etc. (Trans. Texas Acad. Sci., Vols. I and II, 1895 and 1897), has 

 laid great emphasis on the difference between apparent and sensible tempera- 

 tures, as obtained from dry and wet bulb thermometers respectively, liolding 

 that only sensible temperatures can be used in biogeographical work (I.e., 1, 

 pp. 89-90; II, pp. 65-67). .\s very few wet Ijulb readings exist for our dis- 

 trict, our data are those of his "apparent" temperatures only. I am indebted 

 to Dr. C. C. Adams for calKng my attention to these two papers, which seem 

 to have been omitted from the "Zoological Record." 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Oct., 



to the south of Mexico, thence continued as a chain of ''islands" in 

 the midst of lower and hotter lands. Considering the zones of mean 

 annual temperature in order, from the hottest to the coldest : 



Zone I (more than 30° C. = 86° F.) is doubtful, as stated in the 

 explanation of the map; no species of Odonata are known to be 

 restricted to the area supposed to constitute it. 



Zone II (30°-25° C, 86°-77° F.) is continuous on the Atlantic, and 

 also on the Pacific slope, for the entire length of its extent, from about 

 20° north latitude on the eastern, or 25° north on the western, coast 

 of Mexico to South America. The Atlantic and Pacific belts of this 

 zone are connected at the Nicaraguan lakes and at the Isthmus of 

 Panama. This zone therefore offers a pathway for the extension, 

 northward or southward, of species which find in it temperature con- 

 ditions similar to those which prevail over large areas of South Amer- 

 ica.^® It actually possesses a larger nimiber (91) of species also found 

 in South America than any other zone, although Zone III has 90 

 such species. Zones II and III have respectively 48 and 47 species 

 also found in the West Indies, larger numbers than for the other zones. 

 Peculiarities of Zone II are Perilestes (Costa Rica), Argiallagma (Guate- 

 mala), Telebasis 4 species, M etaleptohasis , Neoneura, Protoneura 5 

 species, NephepeUia and Rhodopygia, all genera found in South America 

 and the West Indies. Yucatan, Campeche and most of British 

 Honduras lie within this zone, and these three have no endemic species. 



Zone III (25°-20° C, 77°-68° F.), the Mexican Tierra Caliente of 

 Hann,^° extends continuously southward from the Gulf States on the 

 east, and from Arizona and California on the west, to southern Nica- 

 ragua, where it is interrupted by Zone II. The Atlantic and Pacific 

 belts are confluent from the southern part of the State of Puebla to 

 the western part of Chiapas, and again for the southern part of Hon- 

 duras and most of Nicaragua. After its interruption in southern 

 Nicaragua, this zone reappears in northwestern Costa Rica and extends 

 almost to the Isthmus of Panama. Zones III and IV possess an equal 

 number (27) of species also found in Northern America, a larger num- 

 ber than for the other zones. Characteristic for this zone are Philo- 

 genia (not north of Costa Rica), Palcemnema, Progomphus 3 species, 

 Epigomphus 4 species, genera chiefly South American in their dis- 

 tribution. 



'* The distribution of the Odonata by temperature zones in South America 

 should also be considered here, but even the first steps in investigating the South 

 American Odonata from this point of view have vet to be taken. 



^^Handbuch der Klimatologie, 2te Aufgabe, Bd.'ll, p. 285, Stuttgart, 1897. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



Zone IV (20°-15° C, 68°-59° F.), the Mexican Tierra Templada of 

 Hann, embracing a large part of the United States, nowhere touches 

 the coasts in Mexico or Central America, as Zones II and III do, but 

 occupies a central position. It consists in these countries of a Mexican 

 portion, of rather greater area than that of the central plateau, and 

 reaching to southern Puebla ; a mostly elongated and narrow strip in 

 Guerrero and Oaxaca, some of the western parts of Chiapas, Guatemala 

 and Honduras, with an arm into western Salvador; a number of small 

 scattered areas in Honduras and a larger one in northern Nicaragua ; 

 finally, an elongated strip in Costa Rica and Panama. Representatives 

 of Zone IV are Cordulegaster godmani, Mshna dugesi, Plaihemis suhornata, 

 Lihelhda comanche, foliata, nodisticla and luctuosa, members of chiefly 

 northern, or {.^shna) cosmopolitan, genera. 



Zone V (15°-10° C, 59°-50° F.), the Mexican Tierra Fria of Hann, 

 occurs in scattered areas in Sonora, Chihuahua, Durango, Zacatecas, 

 and one of greater extent in the States of Hidalgo, Puebla, Tlascala 

 and Mexico ; in western Guatemala and on some of the peaks of Costa 

 Rica. No Odonata are peculiar to this zone. 



Zone VI (less than 10° C. = 50° F.) occurs only on the higher peaks 

 of Mexico, Guatemala and Costa Rica; no Odonata have been reported 

 as yet at or above the elevations corresponding to its lower limit in 

 these countries. 



Zones III, IV, V and VI may be compared to continents or islands, 

 lying within a sea of Zone II, and each enclosed by a girdle of zones 

 of lower numbers than itself. 



Table 9 gives the distribution of the Odonata within these zones. 



From Table 9 it results that the number of species confined to one 

 zone only is 104, extending through two zones 99, extending through 

 three zones 71, and through four zones 8. Of all the zones. III con- 

 tains the greatest number of species, subspecies and varieties, viz.: 

 222 as compared with 165 in II, 143 in IV, and 10 in V; it is also the 

 richest in zonal endemic species, viz. : 46, as compared with 40 in II 

 and 18 in IV; and the richest in endemic Mexican and Central Ameri- 

 can forms, viz. : 106, as compared with 60 in IV, 56 in II, 4 in V, and 

 3 in I. 



The species, etc., which, outside of Mexico and Central America, 

 are found exclusively in Northern America appear in the tempera- 

 ture zones of our district in the following numbers: IV 15, III 13, 

 II 5, V4. As our map (Plate XXVI) shows, zones IV and III are con- 

 tinuous from the United States into Mexico, so that they offer a 

 pathway for the extension of species whose living conditions are 




476 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



1=1 cc 



i^ 2 



§ a 



Q S 



a a; 



fa "-^ 

 o 



o 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



those of these zones. The Northern American species found in zones 

 II and V are, in all cases, also found in III or IV, and hence can con- 

 ceivably have descended or ascended from one or the other of the 

 latter two. 



Considering all the Mexican and Central American species, etc., 

 occurring also (a) in South America, or (6) exclusively in South America 

 and the West Indies, or (c) exclusively in South America, the order 

 (according to the number of species) of the temperature zones in which 

 they appear is always the same, viz. : II, III, IV, I, V, the numbers 

 of species being respectively: (a) 91, 90, 60, 4, 1; (6) 29, 29, 18, 0, 0; 

 (c) 52, 51, 33, 4, 0. Zone II as a pathway for the extension of the 

 "South American element" has already been considered on page 474. 

 Some Anomalies in the Zonal Distribution. — Since Zone II is the only 

 zone continuously extending northward from South America, it is of 

 importance to notice, as Table 9 shows, that of the 70 Mexican and 

 Central American forms occurring elsewhere exclusively in South 

 America, 16, or 23%, have not been detected in zone II in our faunal 

 region. 



Of the 131 species, etc., common to Mexico, Guatemala and Costa 

 Rica, the great majority have been found in zone II at some point 

 (and hence presumably occur in it at other points), although they 

 may also inhabit other zones, but there are 28 exceptions. 



Sixteen of the species, etc., of zones III and IV of Costa Rica are 

 not found farther north, but 17 other species of the same zones and 

 country do so extend, although the Costa Rican areas of these zones 

 are discontinuous. 



In spite of the isolation of zone IV in Guatemala, no species of 

 Odonata are known to be restricted thereto, and species found there 

 and not known to occur in any other zone than IV, such as Cordule- 

 gaster godmani and Libellula foliata, are also found in Mexico and in 

 Costa Rica. 



Sixty-two and 27 species, etc., of zones higher than II found in Mexico 

 and Guatemala are not and are, respectively, found farther south, a 

 discontinuity of zones III-V existing south of Guatemala. 



Nine and 4 species, etc., of zones IV-V (but not lower) found in 

 Mexico are not and are, respectively, found farther south. 



Some conceivable explanations of these anomalies (suggested for 

 future investigation) are: incompleteness of data on the present dis- 

 tribution; that temperature does not limit the inhabitable area of 

 the species concerned, or that, limiting it, the species found in dis- 

 continuous parts of the same zone may at times, past or present, 

 31 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



have made their way from one separated area to another by their 

 own powers of flight, perhaps aided by favorable winds; that zones 

 III and IV may have been more continuous throughout the length of 

 Mexico and Central America in Tertiary times, when higher elevations 

 with consequent cooler temperatures prevailed over areas now low 

 and hot, as a result of previous greater volcanic activity or orogenic 

 revolution,^^ some of which latter causes have been invoked by bot- 

 anists^^ to account for the distribution of the plants of this district. 



That temperature is not the only factor in determining the dis- 

 tribution of the Odonata is shown by the fact that each of the zones 

 II-IV, even when continuous over large areas, contains species of 

 quite limited habitat within that zone. Such are Perilestes fragilis, 

 Argia wilsoni, gaumeri, popoluca, and cwpraurea, Argiallagma minu- 

 tum and species of Protoneura in zone II; Hetcerina rudis, Argia per- 

 cellulata, calida, harretti, rhoadsi and pocommia and Palcemnema desid- 

 erata in zone III; Hetcerina tolteca and Argia herberti in zone IV, 



Relations of the Odonate Fauna to Rainfall. 



The existence of pools, lakes, or watercourses of sufficient con- 

 stancy for the development of the aquatic larvse of the Odonata is 

 dependent on the water supply (ultimately traceable to the precipi- 

 tation) and on the factors which tend to prevent its loss by evapora- 

 tion or by sinking into the soil. These latter factors probably include 

 frequency of winds and of clouds, sheltering vegetation and the rela- 

 tive porosity of the soil and underlying rocks. The supply and con- 

 servation of the water of a given area have not only the direct effects 

 of furnishing the necessary living medium for the Odonate larvse, but 

 also, in a more indirect manner, must influence the supply of food for 

 both larvse and adults through the existence of vegetation and through 

 it of herbivorous insects and other animals. 



The influence of these environmental conditions on the Odonate 

 fauna has not yet been thoroughly investigated even in those parts of 

 the earth for which the physical data have been accumulated. For 

 Mexico and Central America, where the collection of these data has 

 been very limited (except at a few well-known localities), it is hardly 

 possible at this time to attempt to correlate the facts of Odonate 

 distribution even with those of precipitation. The existing measure- 



" Hill, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool, XXXIV, pp. 205-207, etc., 1899. 

 '^Most recently by Braj^, Science for Nov. 9, 1900, pp. 709-716, and Botan. 

 Gazette, XXVI, pp. 121-152, 1898, vnth. citations from previous writers. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 479 



merits of rainfall show a much greater anmial variation^^ than in the 

 case of temperature, and a much longer series of observations is, 

 therefore, needed to determine the approximate average rainfall than 

 to ascertain the approximate mean annual temperature. Since such 

 series exist for very few places^* and the rainfall differs so much at 

 nearby localities (as the data gathered by the authors quoted 

 show), the endeavor to correlate the occurrence of certain species of 

 Odonata with rainfall differences appears to be premature,^^ although 

 it may be that precipitation has a more important influence on the dis- 

 tribution of these insects than has temperature.^^ The annual varia- 

 tion in rainfall, however, may bring about an annual variation in the 

 local Odonate fauna — a possibility which suggests that a proper under- 

 standing of the insect fauna may be obtainable only from the same 

 methods of accumulation of data as are practised by the meteorologists. 

 Mr. E. B. Williamson, as a result of his observations made while 

 collecting in Guatemala, has suggested in correspondence that "The 

 species [of Odonata] occurring at any location during the dry season 

 are those species of widest distribution, or, in other words, local species 

 are to be found in the height of the season. " In testing this sugges- 

 tion, the difficulty at once arises that we have no complete records of 

 the Odonata occmring both in the wet and dry seasons at the same 

 locality. An absolute essential for the study of this and other problems 

 connected with the seasonal distribution of these insects in our district 

 is a series of continuous observations for at least twelve consecutive 

 months in the same limited area. Under the present conditions the 

 best that can be done is to compare wet season captures at one point 

 with dry season collections at the nearest similar station. Thus 

 both Santa Lucia and Zapote lie on the Pacific slope of Guatemala, 



^ Escobar, Memor. Soc. Cien. "Antonio Alzate," XX, 1903 (see his figiires for 

 Mazatlan, e.g., I.e., p. 29). Harrington, Bull. PMlos. Soc. Washington, XIII, pp. 6, 

 19, 1S95. Sapper, Meteorol. Zeitschr., 1S92-1906. A still more recent review 

 of the distribution of rainfall in Central America is contained in Dr. Alfred 

 Merz's "Beitrage zur Ivlimatologie und Hydrographie Mittelamerikas " {Mittheil. 

 Vereins fiir Erdkunde zu Leipzig, 1906; 96 pp., 4 Beilagen; 1907, especially 

 pp. 9-23). An extended discussion of Dr. Merz's work is given in Meteorol. 

 Zeitschr., XXV, pp. 326 et seq., July, 1908. 



^^ These localities are mostly at the higher elevations, in the larger centres of 

 human population, wliile the majority of the species of Odonata are found at 

 lower levels. 



^^ See a note by Mr. Champion {Biol. Cent.-Amer. Neur., p. 53) and one by 

 Mr. C. H. T. Townsend {Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 6, XX, p. 289, 1897) on the 

 seasonal appearance of certain Odonata and Diptera, respectivelj', in our dis- 

 trict. 



^* Mr. F. M. Chapman has some interesting remarks on the influence of tem- 

 perature, independent of humiditj^ on the distribution of birds at Las Vigas and 

 Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mexico {Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., X, pp. 17 and 36). 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



have a mean annual temperature of 25°-20° C. and a yearly rainfall 

 of more than 3000 mm.," the former, however, at an altitude of 335 

 metres as against 720 for Zapote. They have yielded respectively 

 26 dry season species and 17 wet season species; each has 6 endemic 

 species {i.e., restricted to Mexico and Central America), one of which, 

 with 7 non-endemic species, is found at both localities. 



The single locality in all Mexico and Central America which has 

 furnished the greatest number of species of Odonata is Atoyac, in 

 Vera Cruz — 68. At least 59 of these were taken in April and May (the 

 specimens of the other 9 are undated), and of these 59, 17 are endemic 

 in Mexico and Central America. If we may judge from the rainfall 

 figures published for the nearest point, Cordoba,^^ April and May, while 

 not a part of the wet season in its stricter sense, may have a precipi- 

 tation of 29-101 mm. and 77-233 mm. respectively, the total for the 

 3^ear being 2600-3200 mm. On investigating the seasonal records 

 for the 17 endemic species at other localities, it appears that they are 

 by no means always confined to one limited portion of the year. 



Gualan, Guatemala, lies in the rainfall zone of less than 1000 m.^^ 

 The only rainfall records from anywhere in the vicinity appear to be 

 those of Teculutan, Department of Zacapa, the monthly figures for 

 1902, from January to December respectively, being 1, 0, 1, 95, 70, 361, 

 ?, 38, 83, 164, 17 and 2 mm.^'o Mr. Wilhamson collected 39 species at 

 Gualan in Januar}^, 1905, 7 of which are restricted to Mexico and 

 Central America. At Los Amates, lying in the rainfall zone of 1000- 

 2000 mm., in the same month and the following February, 35 specief:( 

 were obtained, 6 being endemic in our district. At Puerto Barrios, 

 whose measured precipitation for three years, 1894-6, is 3096 mm., 

 with no month below 50 mm.,^"^ 33 species were procured in December, 

 1904, and February and March, 1905, 7 of these being confined to 

 Mexico and Central America. Gualan has a well-marked dry season, 

 which is much less distinct at Los Amates and absolutely, but not 

 relatively, absent at Puerto Barrios. Of the endemic species, three 

 taken at Gualan (Argia tezpi, A. pipila, Pseudoleon superbus), three 

 at Los Amates (Neoneura amelia, Protoneura remissa, Orthemis hiolleyi), 

 and four at Puerto Barrios {Hetcerina miniata, Argia gaumeri, Neo- 

 neura paya, Protoneura amatoria) were not taken at either of the other 



" Sapper, Petermann's Mittheil., XLIII, map, 1897. 



2» For 1861-3, Nieto, Bolet. Soc. Geog. Estadist. Mex. (1), X, pp. 484 et seq., 1864. 

 " Sapper, I.e., 1897. 



2"Lottermoser, Meteorol. ZeiLschr.. XXIII, pp. 237, etc., 1906. 

 '^Sapper, Petemianns Mittheil., XLIll, pp. 117 et seq., 1897; Meteorol. Zcit- 

 schr., XIV, p. 235, 1897. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



two localities. Of the remaining endemic species taken at Gualan, 

 two (Argia frequentula, Telebasis digiticoUis) were taken also at both 

 the other places, one {Telebasis salva) also at Los Amates, one {Argia 

 indicatrix) also at Puerto Barrios. 



Some other data are presented in Table 10 (see pp. 482, 483). 



To illustrate the seasonal distribution more fully, the following 

 lists of the species taken at three different localities are appended; 

 the number before each specific name is the same as that employed 

 in the list of species. Table B, of the Introduction, Biol. Cent.-Amer. 

 Neurop.; names printed - in heavy face type in this and other lists are 

 those of species endemic in Mexico and Central America. 



DisTRiTo Federal, Mexico. No. 3. Hetcerina vulnerata, 25. testes alacer, 53. 

 Hyponeura funcki, 101. Argia agrioides nahuana, 108. Enallagma civile, 109. 

 E. pnevarum, 123. Ischnura ramburi and 124. var. credula, 125. I. denticollis, 

 126. /. demorsa, 160. Erpetogomphus crotalinus, 171. Cordulegaster diadema, 

 175. Anax Junius, 179. ^shna multicolor, 204. Libelhda nodisticta, 221. Orthemis 

 ferruginea, 267. Tramea cophijsa, 280. Sympetrum illotum virgulum, 281. S. 

 corruptum, 286. Erythemis simplicicolHs collocata, 293. Pachydiplax longipennis. 



April, 179; May, 25, 109, 125, 175, 179, 221, 280, 281, 286, 293; June, 53, 

 108, 109, 123, 124, 125, 126, 160, 179, 280, 281, 286, 293; July, 25, 101, 109, 123, 

 124, 125, 204, 267, 280, 281, 286, 293; August, 281, 286, 293; September, 3, 25, 

 101, 108, 109, 125, 126, 179, 280, 281, 293; October, 3, 25, 109, 124, 125, 171, 

 280; November, 280; December, 281. 



CuERNAVACA, MoRELOS, MEXICO. 3. Hetcerina vulnerata, 4. H. americana, 

 24. Archilestes grandis, 25. testes alacer, 43. Paraphlebia hyalina, 52. Hyponeura 

 lugens, 53. H. funcki, 78. Argia oenea, 84. A. lacrymans, 85. A. tonto, 86. .4. 

 fissa, SS. A. tarascana, 92. .4. extranea, 93. A. vivida, 94. A. vivida plana, 103. 

 Hesperagrion heterodoxum, 107. Anisagrion lais, 119. Telebasis salva, 125. 

 Ischnura denticollis, 127. Anomcdagrion hastatum, 157. Erpetogomphus elaps, 

 159. E. cophias, 160. E. crotalinus, 162. E. sipedon, 171. Cordulegaster diadema, 

 178. /Eshna cornigera, 179. /E. multicolor, 181. /E. williamsoniana, 183. M. 

 luteipennis, 194. Oplonaeschna armata, 202. Lihellula sofurata, 203. L. s. crocei- 

 pennis. 206. Pseudoleon superbus, 221. Orthemis ferruginea, 239. Erythrodiplax 

 connata var. h' and 241. var. d' ; 251. Breichmorhoga tepeaca, 253. B. pertinax, 

 2QI. Paltothemis lineatipes, 272. Tramea onusta, 275. Perithemis domitia intensa, 

 280. Sympetrum illotum virgulum, 281. S. corruptum. 



January: Nos. 4, 24, 92, 93; Mav: 3, 4, 52, 78, 86 92 94, 107, 119, 202; June: 

 3, 24, 84, 92, 94, 103, 107, 159, 160, 178, 183, 202, 206, 221, 239, 261; July: 3, 

 24, 53, 92, 93, 127, 157, 159, 162, 181, 202, 203, 221, 253; August: 4, 24, 85, 88, 

 157; September: 3, 24, 103, 107, 119, 127, 160, 179, 275, 281; October: 3, 4, 

 24, 25, 84, 86, 88, 92, 93, 103, 107, 119, 127, 160, 171, 194, 202, 221, 239, 241, 251, 

 272, 280; November: 171. 



San Jose, Costa Rica. No. 2. Hetcerina cruentata, 24. Archilestes grandis, 

 67. Argia oculata, 86. A. fissa, 92. A. extranea, 104. Anisagrion allopterum and 

 105. var.? rubicundum, 113. Acanthagrion gracile, 157. Erpetogomphus elaps, 

 183. jEshna luteipennis, 203. Lihellula saturata croceipennis, 221. Orthemis 

 ferruginea, 237. Erythrodiplax connata var. e, 248. Brechmorhoga vivax, 254. 

 B. rapax^ 261. Paltothemis lineatipes, 273. Pantala flavescens, 280. Sympetrum 

 illotum virgulum. 



March: 203, 221, 248, 254, 273; May: 2, 67, 86, 92, 104, 105, 113, 157, 280; 

 July: 24, 104; August: 24, 92, 183, 203, 221, 237, 261; September: 2; October: 

 2, 248. 



From Table 10 and these three lists it is evident that the obser- 

 vations for different months in the same locality are quite unequal 




481 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 









•Z061-S681 

 -■Biidioajd uB3j^ 



■Z06I 

 -S68I 'sJ^aA: gt 

 ^Jn)■BJ^du^^:^ ubsj^ 



'■o}9 'saioad's 3ui 

 -paaajd jo jaqurh^ 



•o}8 'saioads 

 JO jaqranu' Ib:>oj^ 



■1061 



. r-H rJH 05 t-^ iq --; -*_ 00 X t--; lO 



E r-i CO c» -t' o ■* OJ ro c^ 7D t^ T^ 



S (M ^ .-H (N ,-H 



»C (N O CJS ■* oq CO (M_ Oi 00 O iq 



• Th »c r>-" 00 o C) 00 oi 00 1^ CD '^ 



T-H CO .: : .-i(N 





, iq t-- CO C0_ O Oi t^ 05 O (M_ Tt< C^_ 



' t^' 1-i co" -*' 00 00 o co' ^ co' o6 



> Oi (M r^ r-l '" '^' ^ 



(M (M rH C^ 



•Z06T 

 ajn^BJadina; nBajif 



uaniY -jnaQ poB 

 •xano^papu;s3j 

 '•0^8 'saioad's aui 

 -paoajd JO jaquin^ 



•D'+a 'saioads 

 JO jaqninu' x^^ox 



•^6 



-5881 '89-998T 



uoijBjidioaJd UBaj\i 



•aJn:^BIad^I^^ u^aj^ 



■jarav '^naQ puB 

 ■xai^o^pa;ou;saj 

 '•oja 'saioads Sat 

 -paoaid JO jaquin^ 



•oja 'saioads 

 JO jaquinu' i^^ox 



iOC^GOi-HCOO:t>iOiOOTjH, 



'*< t^ lO CO Tji O 1 



OCO^ lOO OOi 



•^881 'i-es/i X 'OB 

 -^itnooBXXi 'uoii 

 -Biidtoajd UBaj\[ 



•f88T '■I'Ba^ 



X 'UBCJTUIOO'B^XI 



'ajn)Bja'duia| u^api 



•janiv '^uag puB 

 •xai^o:> pajoij;sai 

 '•0^(3 'saioads 3ni 

 -paoajd JO jaqaih^ 



•o^a 'saioads 

 JO jaqumn' \e'\oj^ 



&°& 



rH00lM'-H,-(,-<-HCOt^t^>ClO' 



_O3r-i00O-*05CSiT-H(N00t^00 

 O OJ CO ^" O CD O lo" lO lO CO <m' <m' 








190S.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



483 



-ZZ8I 'si-eaS. gi 



■16 

 -USX 'sivs/i ei 



'•o}9 'saioads Sui 

 -paaajd jo jaqamj>j 



'019 'saioads 

 JO jaqranu* i^^ox 



•006I-688T 



•006T 

 -6881 'sivaS. SI 



•J8OTV -^uag puB 

 •xaj^O'j p8;oij;s9j 

 '•0^9 'ssioad's 3m 

 -paoajd JO jaqumjsj 



•0|9 'S8T0adS 



JO jaqumu' i^^ox 



l> 'tl r-l t^ ,-1 O 00 T}< Tj< ,-( CD 



I-; t> o l> .-I <D C5 CD 1-H 00 iq p 



(N CO >0 I> 00 I> 5D CD' O -"jJ 00 (M' 



CO CO "^ : "^ •'^ T— I 



i-l O CO (M CO --H l>. 1 



'*00'-i'-it^C<liC'*C5 

 1— iTtiCOCiTt^iO^fM'OCO 

 <N (M (M (M CO CO --H 



oocooO'^io.-Hoor^oocD'^oo 



■968T '-1^9^ X uoT^ 



-BJldl09Jd UB9J\[ 



•96-5681 'S1V9/: z 

 9jn'^BJ9dui9; uB9j^ 



•jaray "^ngQ puB 

 •X9 j^o^ pa^oij ;S9J 

 '•o%a 'saioacis Sin 

 -p909Jd jo J9qinnf^ 



•0^9 'S9t09dS 



JO jaquinu' xe%oj^ 





(M00COTjHOiO3O500COa>-*CD 



i^ f! ct. d 





S-2 ?^o <s §>^^ ii 



..2^ o^ 5iT3 ^^ 





5> 5-ii 



tc^> 



SP^oSO e i =" S 

 CI o ^ o.^ "g F^ '~^ ^ 03 



s ^^' 



^^cS^. 





■3 ^ >.; 









o ^ 



;^oo 



J^i' 



SB 



-2 P 





03^^ ^^ O 





-00 S ^ 





. 1— I S 0) 

 g'-C -o 



n^ S - CO o; N -O ^ '^ >. 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



and fall far short of giving a complete picture of the Odonate fauna. 

 It is also clear, especially from the Cuernavaca list, where the same 

 species appear at frequent intervals throughout the year, that a num- 

 ber of different, perhaps overlapping, broods must exist, as there is no 

 reason for supposing that the life of an individual imago is prolonged 

 for many months. 



Rainfall and Odonata on the Atlantic and Pacific Slopes. — Various 

 authors^^ have remarked the greater abundance of species of animals, 

 including insects, on the Atlantic than on the Pacific slope of Mexico 

 and much of Central America. Sumichrast {I.e., p. 5) has attrib- 

 uted the relative poverty of the Pacific slope of Tehuantepec and 

 adjoining areas in birds to "the extreme dryness of the soil; to the 

 scarcity of vegetation and of insect life; and to the duration of the 

 \vinds from the northeast and southwest which there prevail with great 

 violence." Harrington^^ has concluded that for Central America, 

 "The rainfall is greater on the Atlantic than on the Pacific side as two 

 or three to one." Table 11 gives the distribution of the Odonata 

 on these sides and on the Mexican plateau for the whole of our district, 

 from which it appears that the total nimiber of Atlantic slope species 

 is 235 against 181 for the Pacific, a proportion of nearly 4 to 3. Tables 

 6-8 (pages 471-473) give the proportions for Mexico, Guatemala and 

 Costa Rica respectively as, approximately, 4 to 3, 4 to 2, 4 to 4^. 



Neither the rainfall nor the Odonate fauna can be summarized bo 

 briefly, however, as local conditions may cause both of these to vary. 

 Not only the map of Puga,^^ but also the publications of Sapper^^ and 

 of Lottermoser^^ show as heavy a rainfall on parts of the Pacific slope 

 of Mexico and Guatemala as on the Atlantic side. The Odonate 

 fauna of Altamira and Tampico, in Tamaulipas, numbers 40 speciea- 

 that of Tepic 42; for Jalapa, Vera Cruz, we know 24 species, for Guada; 

 lajara 50; for the vicinity of the city of Vera Cruz, including Medellin, 



32 Sumichrast, quoted by Lawrence (Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 4, 1876) for 

 birds of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. Godman (Biol. Cent. Amer. Lepid. Rhopal., 

 I, p. vi, 1901) for Lepidoptera Rhopalocera generally "to perhaps as far south as 

 Costa Rica." V. Martens (Biol. Cent. Amer. Land and Freshw. Moll., p. xxvii) 

 for this group to the same distance; he correlates the greater abundance of 

 species -nith the greater area of the Atlantic slope of Mexico, Guatemala, Hon- 

 duras and Nicaragua. Champion (Entom. News, XVIII, p. 33, 1907) for insects 

 of Guatemala. 



=3 Bidl. Philos. Soc, Washington, XIII, p. 7, 1895. 



^* " Distribucion de las Lluvias en la Republica Mexicana," Mem. Soc. Cien., 

 ".\ntonio Alzate," XVI, 1901. 



3^ Petermann's Mitth., XLIII, pp. 117 et seg. and map, 1897; Das Nordliche 

 Mittelamerika, pp. 182-3; Mittelamerikayiische Reisen u. Studien, pp. 299-300. 



58 Meteorol. Zeitschr., XXIII, pp. 237 et seq., 1906. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 



485 



Table 11.— Distribution of the Species, etc., op Odonata of Mexico 

 AND Central America by Slopes and (in Mexico) 



THE Central Plateau. 

 Atlantic, P = Pacific, slope;" C = Central Mexican plateau.) 



(A 



11 species are now recorded, for Acapulco 19. In Pacific Guatemala 

 the highest number recorded for one locality is 26 at Santa Lucia, 

 which is exceeded at various stations on the Atlantic slope, but this 

 latter has received much more attention from the collectors whose 

 material is accessible. 



Generally we may conclude that the hot moist areas of Mexico and 

 Central America are tenanted by the greatest number of forms of 

 Odonata, present information pointing to the richest areas as lying 

 in temperature zone III and the higher parts of zone II, on the Atlantic 

 slope, from the centre of the State of Vera Cruz southward, these 

 areas having a heavy annual rainfall. 



In this connection may be mentioned the suggestion of a possible 



3' The terms "Atlantic" and "Pacific slopes" are here used in the wide sense 

 as embracing : (a) in Mexico all the descending lands from the outUnes of tfie 

 plateau, as sho^Ti on our map (Plate XXVI), to the Gulf of Mexico on the one side 

 and to the Pacific Ocean and Gulf of Cahfornia on the other; (6) m Mexico 

 south of the plateau and in Central America, as corresponding to the Atlantic 

 and Pacific drainage areas respectively. 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



correlation between paleness of wing-veins and dryness of climate,^^ 

 which seems to receive some support from Argia mcesta?^ and Enal- 

 lagma civile ;^'^ but, on the other hand, appears to be negatived by- 

 specimens of Enallagma prccvarum from many of the same localities 

 which furnish E. civile. ^^ 



Whatever of a more exact character we learn in the future of the 

 dependence of these insects on climatic conditions, we must conceive 

 of the latter as operating in a manner which may be compared to the 

 beating of the waves upon a shore. A higher temperature and a 

 more copious rainfall, together or singly, advance upward to a greater 

 elevation or northward to a higher latitude, making possible the exist- 

 ence of certain species in the larval state where they were previously 

 unknown. The next year, or after several years, these favorable con- 

 ditions retreat down the mountain slopes or southward along the 

 coastal plains, and the species whose existence they permitted dis- 

 appear from certain localities for a longer or shorter period of time 

 until the necessary conditions are again established.^^ To demon- 

 strate the correctness of this view such continuous observations at a 

 number of stations as were mentioned above (page 479) are essential. 



Relations of the Odonate Fauna to Vegetation Areas. 



Dr. Charles C. Adams, whose recent researches have been directed 

 chiefly to the detection of the relations of faunse to their physiographic 

 surroundings, has suggested to me to endeavor to correlate the dis- 

 tribution of these insects with that of vegetation areas, the latter to 

 serve as indices of the general physical features of the country. In 

 this attempt I have employed Dr. Karl Sapper's vegetation maps of 

 Central America,^^ locating the various places at which the Odonata 

 have been collected in his zones and tabulating the distribution of 

 the species accordingly. The results, save in a few instances to be 

 mentioned shortly, have been unsatisfactory, as the great majority 

 of species appear in several columns of the tabulation. Thus of 133 



^* Biol. Cent.-Amer. Neurop., p. 235. 



''^L.c., p. 361. 



^''L.c, pp. 110, 380. 



" L.c, p. 380. 



*^ Some remarks by Mr. S. E. Meek {Puhlicat. Field Columb. Mus. Chicago, 

 V, pp. xxvi-xxvii, 1904), on the effects on the fish fauna of fluctuations in bodies 

 of water on the northern part of the Mexican plateau, may also be appUed to 

 Odonate larvae. 



*^ In Das Nordliche Mittelamerika (map dated 1895), 1897, and Mittelameri- 

 kanische Reisen und Studien (map dated 1900), 1902. There is also a larger 

 scale map for Guatemala only, dated 1894, in Petermann's Mittheil., Ergan- 

 zungsband XXIV, 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



species so tabulated, six (Hetcerina cruentata, Argia fissa, A. extranea, 

 Acanthagrion gracile, Ischnura ramhuri var. credula, Perithemis domitia 

 iris) occur in all of the four zones in which these insects have been 

 collected, viz. (names as given in Sapper's, 1895, map for Guatemala) : 

 1. Savannas and stretches of primeval forest alternating (wet), 2. 

 Tropical and subtropical rainy forests, 3. Oak and pine forests of the 

 hot and temperate climates, 4. Grass- and bush-steppes and dry- 

 forests. Twenty-four species {Hetcerina tricolor, H. macro-pus, Argia 

 pidla, A. indicatrix, A. oenea, Enallagma caecum novce-hispanice, 

 Telebasis salva, Leptohasis vaciUans, Uracis imhuta, Orthemis ferru- 

 ginea, 0. levis, Erythrodiplax funerea, E. umbrata, E. ochracea, 

 E. connata var. d, Dythemis velox, D. cannacrioides, Brechmorhoga 

 prcecox, B. inequiunguis , Macrothemis pseudimitans, Paltothemis 

 lineatipes, Sympetrum illotum virgulum, Erythemis verhenata, 

 Lepthemis vesiculosa) appear in three zones. j\Iore than thirty species 

 (including such endemic forms as Cora marina, Heteragrion tri- 

 CiUulare, Argia frequentula, Telebasis digiticollis, Neoneura 

 amelia, Erpetogomphus viperinus, Brechmorhoga pertinax) are 

 common to zones 2 and 4, but not to others. 



This does not necessarilj^ mean that a correlation of Odonate species 

 with vegetation formations does not exist. It may be that slight 

 local differences of too small an area to be shown on the maps employed, 

 or that our data based solely on the imagos, not on the larvae, are 

 responsible for its apparent absence."* 



The few instances, above referred to, in which some correlation 

 seems to exist are those of certain Odonata occurring in the tropical 

 and subtropical rainy forest areas, as the species of Protoneura, Para- 

 phlebia, Argiallagma, Ephidatia and Nephepeltia, and, less certainly, 

 of other genera of the legions Podagrion and Protoneura. From 

 the notes of collectors which have been quoted under the respective 

 species*'^ it would also appear that members of the legion Pseudostigma 

 are dwellers in forests,**^ although not necessarily wet forests. 



" Those disposed to make further researches as to the existence of such cor- 

 relations will doubtless find assistance in Senor Jose Ramirez' "La Vegetacion 

 de Mexico" (Anales, Ministerio de Fomento, Repiib. Mex., XI, pp. 227-489, 

 189S). His botani co-geographical regions, however, are not shown on any 

 of the maps accompanying his memoir. 



'^ Biol. Cent.-Amer. Neurop., pp. 53, 56, 353. Cf. also Selys, Mem. Couron. 

 Acad. Sci. Belg., XXXVIII, p. 9, footnote, 1886. 



" With the clearing of these forests, now apparently in progress (cf. Belt, 

 Naturalist in Nicaragua, pp. 185-6; Sapper, Mittelamerikanische Reis. u. Stud., 

 pp. 308-9), we must probably expect .the disappearance of these Odonata. 




4s8 proceedings of the academy of [oct. 



Relations of the Odonate Fauna to Altitude. 



Table 9, page 476, in connection with the map (Plate XXVI), may be 

 used as indicating not only temperature zones, but also the elevated 

 or non-elevated character of the country in which Odonata have been 

 found, the higher zone numbers corresponding to higher altitudes. 

 Zone II in Central America and in Mexico south of 20° N. Lat. (25° 

 N. Lat. on the Pacific side) embraces all the low coast lands. The 

 highest point on the Atlantic slope of Mexico to which it attains 

 appears to be Actopan,^^ in Vera Cruz (311 m.*^), whence it descends 

 to sea-level south of Tuxpan, while on the Pacific slope it reaches 487 

 m. at the city of Colima^^ and sea-level north of Culiacan. Its upper 

 limit in Central America is about 270 m. 



North of zone II the coasts of Mexico fall in zone III, which, 

 with the higher parts of zone II, includes everywhere the gradually 

 ascending slopes of the central plateaus and mountain ranges to an 

 elevation of about 1,160 m. in Central America, 1,560 m. at Oaxaca 

 City, 1,000 m. at Mirador, Vera Cruz, 700 m. in Nuevo Leon and higher 

 than this last in Sonora. 



In zones IV and V the larger rivers arise, to descend (except in some 

 parts of northern Mexico) through zones III and II to the sea. Zone 

 IV extends to an elevation of 2,050 m. in Central America, 2,200 m. 

 in the southern part of the Mexican plateau, but to not above 1,200- 

 1,300 m. in places in New Mexico. 



The only species which appear to be exclusively confined to the 

 actual sea-coast are ^shna brevifrons, Erythrodiplax berenice nceva 

 and Tramea longicauda var. Libellula auripennis is chiefly a sea-coast 

 species, but in Mexico, as in the United States, has been found elsewhere. 

 A larger number (16)^" of forms are not known to descend below the 

 lower limits of zone IV and are, in our district, markedly highland 

 species. Such are Hetaerina tolteca, H. maxima, Cora skinneri, 

 Lestes henshaioi, Argia terira, herberti, chelata and tonto, Pro- 

 gomphus obscurus borealis, Cordulegaster godmani, >Eshna dugesi, 

 Plathemis subornata, Libellula comanche, foliata, nodisticta and luctuosa. 

 The remaining 274 forms have an intermediate or a more varied habitat, 



" Moreno y Anda and Gomez, El Clima de la Republ. Mex., Ano II, p. 136. 



*^ Revista Soc. Cien., "Antonio Alzate," XXIII, pp. 31, 32, 1905. 



" Hann, Hdh. d. Klimatologie, lite Aufgabe, II, p. 286. 



*° The apparent discrepancy between tliis figure (16) and that to be obtained 

 (19) from Table 9, page 476, is due to the fact that the three other species or 

 varieties, Anax longipes and Erythrodiplax connata a' and c' , while as yet found 

 only in zone IV in Mexico and Central America, have been taken at lower levels 

 in South America or in the West Indies. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



in some cases restricted apparently to a single locality (Hetasrina 

 rudis), in others having a wide range of elevation, as from the sea- 

 coast to the central plateau (Anomalagrion hastatum, Ceratura capreola). 

 Where the same species of Ischnura has been found at quite different 

 altitudes, a slight increase in body size and in the number of post- 

 cubitals has heen detected in specimens from the higher stations. ^^ 



In concluding this discussion of the relations of the Odonata to vari- 

 ous factors of their environment, lists of the forms recorded from a 

 few localities of decidedly different physical character are appended. 

 See also the lists given for the Distrito Federal, Cuernavaca and San 

 Jose on page 481. 



Guzman, Chihuahua (desert of Northern Mexican plateau, mean annual 

 temperature probably near 18° C. or 64 F.; altitude 1,3-il metres or 4,400 feet), 

 all the following species were seen or taken Aug. 6 and 7, 1906: Argia moesta, 

 Enallagma civile, Ischnura ramhuri var. credulu, Anax {Junius?), Plathemis 

 subornata, Orthemis ferruginea, Tramea sp., Pantala flar^escens, Sympetrum cor- 

 ruptum, Erythemis simplicicollis or its subspecies collocata. 



Mazatlan (Pacific sea-coast, mean annual temp. 1880-1902, 24.9° C. or 76.8° 

 F.; mean ann. rainfall 1880-1901, 806 mm. or 32.25 inches): Mecistogaster 

 ornatus, Argia pulla, Enallagma caecum novce-hispanice, Leptobasis vacillans, 

 Ischnura ramburi and var. credula, Pseudoleon superbus, Orthemis ferruginea, 

 Erythrodiplax funerea, Brechmorhoga postlobata, Macro^/iemis inacuta, Miathyria 

 marcella, Tramea longicauda var., T. onusta, Pantala flavescens, P. hymencea, 

 Perithemis domitia intensa, Cannacria batesii, Erythemis verbenata, Lepthemis 

 vesiculosa. 



Atoyac, Vera Cruz (moist Atlantic slope of Mexico, cf. page 480 antea; mean 

 ann. temp, probably about 22.7° C. or 72.9° F. ; alt. 400 m. or 1,314 ft.) : Hetwrina 

 cruentata, H . iltia, H. macropus, W. infecta, Cora marina, Archilestes grandis, Lestes 

 tenuatus, Meguloprepus coerulatus, Pseudostigma aberrans, Mecistogaster ornatus 

 and modestus, Hcteragrion chrysops, Hyponeura funcki, Argia perceliulata, trans- 

 lata, frequentula, ulmeca, oculctta, cuprea, oenea, fissa and exfranea, Anisagrion 

 lais, Enallagma cop.cum novce-hispanice, Acanthagrion gracile, Leptobasis vacillans, 

 Palsmnema paulina and angelina, Protoneura aurantiaca, Qomphoides suasa! 

 Erpetogomphus viperinus and ophibolus, Cyanogomphus (?) tumens, jEshna 

 cornigera, virens and perrensi, Gynacantha trifida and tibiata, Libellula herculea, 

 Pseudoleon superbus, Tholymis citrina, Micrathyria didyma, dissocians and ocellata, 

 Orthemis ferruginea and levis, Cannaphila vibex, Anafya guttata, Erythrodiplax 

 funerea, umbrata, ochracea, connata vars. d and e, Dythemis velox, Brechmorhoga 

 vivax, prarox, pertinax, and inequiunguis , Macrothemis pseudimitans and hemi- 

 chlora, Miathyria simplex, Tauriphila azteca, Perithemis domitia iris and d. mooma, 

 Erythemis peruviana, attala and verbenata, Lepthemis vesiculosa. 



Puerto Barrios (Atlantic coast of Guatemala, see page 480; mean ann. temp, 

 for 1896, 26.8° C. or 80.3° F.): Hetxvrina tricolor, titia and miniata, Hcteragrion 

 chrysops, Argia translata, gaumeri, frequentula and indicatrix, Acanthagrion 

 (/?-aci7e,Telebasis digiticollis, Anomalagrion hastatum, Ceratura capreola, Neoneura 

 paya, Protoneura amatorla, Ephidatia longipes cubensis, Uracis imbuta, Micra- 

 thyria debilis and eximia, Nephepeltia phryne, Anatya normalis, Erythrodiplax 

 umbrata, ochracea, connata vars. c, d, e, Dythemis velox, Macrothemis hemichlora, 

 Tauriphila argo, Tramea insularis, Pantala flavescens, Perithemis domitia iris, 

 Erythemis verbenata, Lepthemis vesiculosa. 



San Geronimo' (dry, elevated central Guatemala; mean ann. temp, probably 

 20°-21° C. or 68°-69.8° F.; mean ann. rainfall less than 1,000 mm. or 40 inches; 

 alt. 900 m, or 2,950 ft.): Hetwrina cruentata, capitalis and rudis, Amphipteryx 



'^ Biol. Centr.-Amer. Neurop., pp.- 387-389. 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



agrioides, Cora marina, Archilestes grandis, Heteragrion tricellulare, Hyponeura 

 funcki, Argiafissa, Acanthagrion gracile, Telebasis salva, Anomalagrion hastatum, 

 Progomphus pygmceus, Erpetogomphus viperinus and elaps, Anax amazili, /Eshna 

 multicolor and luteipennis, Gynacantha septima, Orthemis ferruginea, Cannaphila 

 vibex, Erythrodiplax funerea, ^imbrata and connata var. d, Dythemis velox and 

 maya, Brechmorhoga pertinax, rapax and inequiunguis, Macrothemis pseudi- 

 mitans, Paltothemis lineatipes, Tramea abdominalis, Pantala flavescens, Lepihemis 

 vesiculosa. 



Cachi, Costa Rica (moist Atlantic slope; mean ann. temp, probably about 

 20.6° C. or 69° F.; mean ann. rainfall 1902-04, 2,200 mm. or 86.78 inches; alt. 

 1,020 m. or 3,345 ft.): Hekerina cruentata, macropus, capltalis and majuscida, 

 Archilestes grandis, Megaloprepus ccerulatus, Mecistogaster modestus, Hetera- 

 grion chrysops and erythrogastrum, Argia frequentula, rogersi, fissa, variabilis, 

 and extranea, Anisagrion allopterum and var. rubicundum, Enallagma caecum 

 novce-hispanice, Epigomplius tumefactus and subobtusus, Anax amazili, Mshna 

 luteipennis, Gynacantha trifida, Libellula hercidea, Orthemis ferruginea, Cannaphila 

 vibex, Erythrodiplax funerea and connata var. d, Brechmorhoga vivax, 

 pertinax and rapax, Pcdtothemis lineatipes, Pantala flavescens. 



SuRUBRES, Costa Rica (Pacific slope, drier; mean ann. temp, probablv about 

 25° C. or 77° F.; alt. about 250 m. or 820 ft.): Hetaerina fuscoguttata, 

 cruentata and macropus, Mecistogaster ornatus, Heteragrion erythrogastrum, 

 Perilestes fragilis, Argia translata, tezpi, pulla, frequentula, adamsi, difficilis, 

 cupraurea and oenea, Acanthagrion gracile, Ceratura capreola, Uracis imbuta and 

 fastigiata, Orthemis ferruginea, Erythrodiplax funerea and connata vars. c 

 and e Dythemis velox, Brechmorhoga vivax, Macrothemis hemichlora. 



Explanation of Plate XXVI. 



Map showing the distribution of actual mean temperatures in Mexico and 

 Central America. 



This map was especially prepared by the vvriter for the Biologia Centrali- 

 Americana, volume Neuroptera. Acknowledgment is due to Dr. F. D. Godman, 

 editor of that work, for permission to reproduce it here. It is based on data 

 from the following sources : 



For the United States: Prof. A. J. Henry's "The Climatology of the United 

 States" {Bulletin Q, U. S. Weather Bureau, Washington, D. C, 1906, 4to). 



For Mexico: 1. A map, 97 x 71.5 cm., in the library of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, inscribed merely "Carta CUmatologica. Sebastian 

 Reyes. P. I. Senties. A. Donamette Imp. Escalade 1:3,000,000. Gravee 

 chez Monrocq fr. Paris." Thanks to the Secretaria de Estado y del Despacho 

 de Fomento Colonizacion e Industria of Mexico, I am informed, under date of 

 July 30, 1907, "que dicha Carta fue pubhcada en 1889 por disposicion de esta 

 Secretaria, haciendo los trabajos relativos los Sres. Pedro J. Senties, que era 

 Director de la Escuela Nacional de Agricultura y Comisionado de Mexico en la 

 Exposicion de Paris del mismo ano y Sebastian Reyes que fue Profesor del 

 Plantel antes mencionado." This map was reproduced without alteration, but 

 on a reduced scale (1 : 6,000,000), in Tome XI, Anales del Ministerio de Fomento 

 de la Republica Mexicana, Mexico, 1898. 



2. A map entitled "Reparticion de la Temperatura en la Republica Mexicana" 

 for the "Ano Meteorologico de 1902," published as Plancha 16, Boletin Mensuel, 

 Observatorio Meteoroldgico-Magnetico Central de Mexico, Noviembre, 1902. Senor 

 Don Manuel E. Pastrana, Director of the Observatorio, has kindly informed 

 me (Sept. 6, 1907) that the maps for later years have not been pubhshed. 



3. A number of temperature data for 70 stations in the State of Vera Cruz 

 and 49 in other parts of Mexico, gathered from all accessible sources and pub- 

 lished by the WTiter in the Monthly Weather Review, Vol. XXXVI, No. 4, pages 

 93-97, Washington, D. C, April, 1908. Issued June 16, 1908.' 



4. The topography of the country as given in the map issued by the Bureau 

 of American RepubHcs, Washington, D.C., 1900. The hmits of the central plateau 

 are taken from the map pubUshed in the Boletin Mensuel, Observat. Meteor. -Mag. 

 Cent. Mex. for July, 1901. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



It slioiikl be added that the existence of zone I, with a mean annual tempera- 

 ture of more than 30° C, rests solely on the authority of the map of Senties 

 and Reyes, that it is doubted by Seiior Pastrana, and that I have not succeeded 

 in finding any records of temperature observations in the valley of the Rio de 

 las Balsas for a period of more than two months. 



For Central America, the temperature records quoted in the paper in the 

 Monthly Weather Review, above mentioned, indicate that in Guatemala and Costa 

 Rica the annual isotherms of 25°, 20°, 1.5°, 10° and 5° C. are situated approxi- 

 mately at elevations of 270, 1,160, 2,050, 2,9.50 and 3,840 metres respectively. 

 The present map, so far as Central America is concerned, has been made from 

 the topographical maps of Dr. Sapper (Petermann's Mittheilungen, L, 1904, and 

 Erqanzungshander XXVII and XXXII, 1S99 and 1905; and Mittelamerikan- 

 ische Reisen und Studien, Braunschweig, 1902) and of the Bureau of American 

 Republics for Guatemala (1902), Nicaragua (1903) and Costa Rica (1903), by 

 using these equivalents. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



A EEVIEW OF THE GENUS PIAYA Lesson. 



BY WITMER STONE. 



While rearranging the Cuckoos in the collection of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences my attention was attracted to the type specimen 

 of Piaya macroura Gambel. The apparent omission of this species 

 from Dr. Bowdler Sharpe's Hand List of Birds led me to make a critical 

 study of the genus, the results of which are embodied in the present 

 paper. 



I am under obligations to the United States National Museum 

 through Dr. Charles W. Richmond, and to the American Museum of 

 Natural History through Mr. Frank M. Chapman, for the loan of large 

 series of specimens of the genus, without which my investigation would 

 not have been possible. The material loaned by these institutions, 

 together with that in the Academy's Museum, numbers 259 specimens 

 distributed as follows: Mexico, 64; Central America, 59; Panama, 13; 

 Colombia, 26; Venezuela, 18; Ecuador, 8; Brazil, 32; Guiana, 6; 

 Bohvia, 2; Peru, 4; Paraguay, 2; Trinidad, 8. 



The genus Piaya includes two very well-marked species, P. melano- 

 gastra and P. rutilus, and a number of alhed geographic races which 

 have generally been combined under the name P. cayana. 



The first two offer but few difficulties, and it is the cayana group that 

 has caused confusion in the nomenclature of the genus. The forms 

 of Piaija caijana may be roughly divided into three groups according 

 to the color of the upper surface. In group (1) it is bright ferruginous t 

 (2) bay inclining to chestnut; (3) walnut brown tinged with chestnut. 

 Beginning at the northern part of the range of the genus, we have in 

 western Mexico a large form of the ferruginous group (mexicana), 

 while in eastern Mexico, extending throughout Central America and 

 Panama, is a totally different form of the chestnut-backed group 

 (mehleri). The individuals are quite uniform over this large area, 

 with the exception of the size of the bill, which is smaller in Mexican 

 and Yucatan birds than in those from Nicaragua and Costa Rica. 



In the Cauca river valley of Colombia is a slightly different form 

 (caucce), in which the flanks as well as the crissum are black, this 



1 All colors are based on Ridgway's nomenclature of colors. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



color encroaching farther upon the gray abdomen than in any other 

 form. In northeastern Colombia (Santa Marta to Bogota) and the 

 western portion of Venezuela is a light bird of the ''ferruginous" 

 group (columbiana) , practically identical with the form of western 

 Mexico except for its much larger bill. Farther east, from the Orinoco 

 valley throughout Guiana, is another of the chestnut-backed forms 

 (cayana), similar to that from Central America, while to the southwest 

 is still another (nigricrissa) , ranging over eastern Colombia through 

 Ecuador and Peru. Both of these differ from the Central American 

 bird in dimensions and in the almost total lack of brown on the under 

 surface and the tail which is uniform black, while the Guiana form 

 differs further in having gray under-tail coverts instead of dull black. 

 On the island of Trinidad is a diminutive ferruginous-backed bird 

 (insulana), otherwise similar to the Central American form. In 

 southern Brazil, from Bahia and Matto Grosso, is a larger very pale bird 

 (pallescens) of the ferruginous type. 



In Paraguay, and doubtless in parts of Argentina and southern Brazil, 

 occurs the largest form of all (macroura), with a different coloration 

 from any of the more northern races, the back being walnut brown 

 tinged with chestnut. In Bolivia and southern Peru is a smaller race 

 of this same style of bird (boliviana), difieiing further in its gray instead 

 of black under-tail coverts. 



Three of the races of Piaya cayana seem to have been described by 

 early non-binomial authors. Hernandez's Quapactotl being in all 

 probability the east Mexican bird, while Brisson's Cuculus cayenensis 

 is undoubtedly the form from Cayenne and Azara's Tingazu the very 

 large dark bird of Paraguay. 



Linnseus established Brisson's bird in binomial nomenclature as 

 Coccyzus cayanus and Gmelin gave the name. Coccyzus ridibundus 

 to the Quapactotl of Hernandez, quoting the original more or less 

 indefinite description, as was done also by Ray, Buffon and Latham, 

 the last of whom designated it as the Laughing Bird. Later Stephens 

 inadvertently changed Gmelin's name to rubicundus, but added nothing 

 to the original diagnosis. This — ^viz,: "C. fulvus, gula, jugulo, et 

 pectore cinereis, abdomine, femoribus et tectricibus caudae inferioribus 

 nigris. L. 16 ins. Tail half the length of the body. Hab., Nova Hispana " 

 — seems not clearly identifiable, although it is added to the synonymy 

 of Piaya cayana by Capt. Shelly without' question in Vol. XIX of the 

 British Museum Catalogue of Birds, where all these forms are lumped 

 under the above name. 



Vieillot, in 1817, gave the name macrocercus collectively to the 

 32 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



P. cayana of Linnaeus and allied forms, several of which were described 

 but not named. 



Swainson, 1827, named the light-colored western Mexican bird 

 mexicana, and 1837 modified Linnaeus' name cayanus into cayennensis, 

 which was the form in which it had been used by Brisson. 



Gambel, 1849, described the large Paraguay bird as Piayamacroura, 

 but erroneously credited his specimen to Surinam, as pointed out by 

 Cabanis {Mus. Hein., IV, p. 87). Dr. J. A. Allen (Bull. Amer. Mus. 

 Nat. Hist., V, p. 137, 1893) correctly states that Gambel regarded P. 

 cayana L. and P. mexicana as identical, but his description of macroura 

 could never apply to cayana as Dr. Allen claims. Gambel states that 

 the crissum is black and the length of tail is 15 inches, while P. cayana 

 has a gray crissum and a tail only 9.50 inches in length (Dr. Allen's 

 measurement) ! 



Bonaparte, 1850, also describes the large Paraguay bird as P. circe 

 from a specimen erroneousl}^ recorded as from Colombia (error in local- 

 ity also pointed out by Cabanis, I.e.) and describes as new another 

 bird, P. mehlerijirom Bogota. This name has caused much trouble to 

 subsequent authors. For a time it was used for the small form occur- 

 ring from southeastern Colombia to Ecuador and Peru. Then Dr. 

 Sclater examined the type in the Paris Museum and stated (P. Z. S., 

 1860, p. 285) that it was identical with the east Mexican and Central 

 American bird, claiming that the type locality must have been wrong. 

 Subsequently Dr. Allen and also Mr. Hartert (Nov. Zool., V, 499) have 

 used the name again for the Ecuador bird, and it so stands in Sharpe's 

 Hand List. 



The examination of the type ought to settle a c^uestion of this kind, 

 and I can see no reason why Dr. Sclater's statement should be ignored. 



Cabanis' review of the genus (Mus. Hein., IV, p. 82, 1862) is a remark- 

 ably accurate piece of work. He describes as new the well-marked 

 forms pallescens, guianensis and columbianus, and clearly diagnoses 

 as distinct mexicanus Swainson, macrourus Gambel, nigricrissa Sclater, 

 cayana Linn, and mehleri Bon. His new species mesurus, however, 

 seems not separable from his columbianus. 



In Dr. J. A. Allen's brief review of the genus (Bull. Amer. Mus. 

 Nat. Hist., V, p. 136, 1893) he falls into several errors, largely through 

 lack of material, having no specimens of the light colored bird of 

 northern Colombia and Venezuela, nor of the very large dark form from 

 Paraguay. 



He ignored Cabanis' exlpanation of the true nature of Gambel's 

 macroura, making it a synonym of cayana in spite of the discrepancies 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 495 



in size and color; and then identified the macroura of Cabanis with his 

 new race cabanisi, a pale bird differing only slightly in measurements 

 from pallescens Cab., from which it does not seem separable. 



As a matter of fact macroura and " cahanisi" differ more in color than 

 do mexicana and mehleri, which Dr. Allen regarded as the most distinct 

 of any of the races. 



Dr. Allen used Bonaparte's name mehleri for the Ecuador bird, 

 apparently overlooking Sclater's statement, but he rightly surmised 

 that the Bolivian birds were separable, though he allied them to the 

 Ecuador form instead of to macrowra, to which they are closely related. 

 P. dree Bon., correctly referred to macroura by Cabanis, is doubtfully 

 referred to mehleri by Dr. Allen. 



Hellmayr {Nov. Zool., XIII, p. 43) describes as new the Trinidad 

 bird, calling it insulana, and gives a good resume of the several forms 

 recognized by him. He here distinguishes guianensis from cayana, 

 although he later regards them as not separable; he also adopts 

 Dr. Allen's cabinisii for the big dark colored macroura, apparently 

 overlooking the fact that Dr. Allen's bird, which ''differs little in color 

 from pallescens," could hardly have the ''crissum black," 



Von Ihring {Revista Museo Paulista, 1904, p. 448) recognizes Allen's 

 error in writing P. macroura and P. cabanisi and again renames the 

 former var. yuarania. 



Key to the Species and Subspecies. 



Plieum gray sharply contrasted with the rest of the upper parts, 



melanogastra. 

 Pileum uniform with the upper parts or very nearly so. 



Size very small; wing 4.12 in. ; throat cinnamon rufous, . minuta. 

 Size medium or large, wing 5.50-6.80; throat vinaceous. 

 ferruginous above, 

 large, tail 11.30-12.70. 



tail strongly rufous below, black subterminal bands strongly 

 defined. 



bill large, columbiana. 



bill small, mexicana. 



tail dull blackish brown below, black subterminal bands not 



clearly defined, pallescens. 



small, tail 9.30, insulana. 



bay above. 



tail uniform dull black beneath, no trace of subterminal bands. 



crissum gray, cayana. 



crissum black, nigrocrissa. 



tail below with rusty on the outer webs at least. 



thighs gra}^, tail 10.50-11, mehleri. 



thighs black, tail 12, • . caucce. 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



walnut brown above, tail uniform dull black beneath. 



tail 15.10, crissum black, macroura. 



tail 11.25, crissum gray, holiviana. 



Piaya melanogastra(Vieillot). 



Cuculus vielanogaster A^ieillot, Nov. Diet., VIII, p. 236, 1823 ['Java/ loc. 



err. = South America]. 

 Piaya brachi/ptera Lesson, Traite, p. 140, 1831 [Cayenne]. 

 Melius corallirhynchus Lesson, Rev. Zool., 1840, p. 1 [Hab. ?]. 



Length of wing, 5,46 inches; tail, 8.85. 



Above ferruginous, tail and wings glossed with wine purple, entire 

 pileum, nape and eye region ashy gray, rectrices with white tips and 

 black subterminal bands, remiges with dusky tips, throat and breast 

 cinnamon rufous, rest of under surface dull black; specimens examined 

 from Cayenne; Demarara; Napo River, Ecuador; Amazonia. 



The nomenclature of this species is considered under P. rutila. 



Piaya rutila (Illiger). 



Cuculus rutilus Illiger, Abhl. Berl. Akad. Wiss., 1812, p. 224 [Cayenne]. 

 Coccyzus minutus Vieillot, Nov. Diet., VIII, p. 275, 1817 [Cayenne]. 

 Macropus caixana Spix, Av. Bras., I, p. 54, 1824 [Brazil]. 

 Coccycua monachus Lesson, Traite, 1831, p. 142 [Cayenne]. 



Length of wing, 4.12; tail, 6.15. 



Above ferruginous chestnut, tail and wings glossed with wine purple, 

 rectrices with white tips and black subterminal bars, remiges dusky 

 at their tips, throat, breast and cheeks cinnamon rufous, rest of under 

 parts gray, tinged with buff on abdomen and flanks. 



Specimens examined from Panama, Colombia, Orinoco, Cayenne, 

 headwaters Huallaga River, Guyaquil. 



This bird was first described by Brisson as Cuculus cayanensis minor, 

 and is entered by Linnaeus and Gmelin as var. /? under Cuculus 

 cayanus. Gmehn also adds a description of a var. y, which from its 

 'capite cinereo' must be Piaya melanogaster. 



Illiger (1812) regarded these as sexes of the same species and gave 

 them the name Cuculus rutilus, while Spix (1824) did the same thing, 

 calling them Macropus caixana. The figure and description of his female 

 ( = melanogaster) is defective in that he does not give the abdomen as 

 black; furthermore he showed by a query that he was not sure whether 

 this was the same species as the smaller bird, therefore his name 

 must unquestionably be restricted to the latter. lUiger's name could 

 be allotted to either bird , but as the smaller one, var. «, stands first, and 

 as it was not subsequently named minutus until after the name melano- 

 gaster was proposed for var. r, I think rutilus should be used for 

 'var. a,' currently known as Piaya minuta. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



Piaya cayana. 



Common characters. Above some shade of ferruginous, bay or 

 wahiut brown, rectrices and remiges with more or less wine purple gloss, 

 tips of remiges dusky, rectrices tipped with white with a subterminal 

 black bar above; central pair usually rusty beneath, others varying 

 from rusty to black in the various races, the white tips always distinct, 

 the subterminal band present or absent, lower surface of body pale 

 gray, thighs sometimes and crissum always darker, throat and breast 

 vinaceous cinnamon. 



The races vary in the color of the upper parts and of the lower side 

 of the tail, as well as in the color of the crissum; the latter, however, is 

 not always constant. There is also marked difference in size, and in 

 the proportions of the bill. 



The extremes of coloration are seen in fresh specimens of P. colum- 

 hiana, nigricrissa and macroura, which on the upper surface are respec- 

 tively ferruginous, bay and walnut brown of Ridgway's Nomenclature 

 of Colors. 



The relationship of the other forms, so far as the color of the upper 

 parts is concerned, is shown below: 



P. c. Columbiana, ferruginous. 



P. c. mexicana, ferruginous. 



P. c. pallescens, ferruginous, a trifle paler. 



P. c. insulana, ferruginous, a trifle darker. 



P. c. nigricrissa, bay. 



P. c. mehleri, chestnut tinged with bay. 



P. c. cayana, chestnut tinged with bay. 



P. c. caucce, similar to the last but more ferruginous. 



P. c. macroura, walnut brown. 



P. c. boliviana, walnut brown. 

 Piaya cayana cayana Linn. 



Cuculus caijanus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., I, p. 170, 1766 [Cayenne]. 

 Coccyzus macrocercus Vieillot, Nov. Diet., VIII, p. 275, 1817 [Cayenne]. 

 Coccyzus cayanensis Swainson, Class. Bds., II, p. 323, 1837 [Cayenne]. 

 Pyrrhocorax guianensis Cabanis and Heine, IV, p. 85, 1862 [British Guiana], 



Length of wing, 5.65; tail, 11.10. 



Above chestnut strongly tinged with bay, grayer on the head, wings 

 and tail glossed with wdne purple, flanks smoke gray, crissum mouse 

 gray, under side of rectrices dull black except for the white tips, no 

 trace of subterminal bands. 



Some birds have the crissum paler than others. Mr. Hartert at one 

 time {Nov. ZooL, XIII, p. 43) regarded this as a distinctive charac- 

 ter separating the bird of French Guiana from that ranging from 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Dutch Guiana through the Orinoco valley (P. c. guanensis), but later 

 (XIV, p. 35) he considers the difference not constant, in which opinion 

 I heartily agree. 



Specimens examined from Guiana — Cayenne, Annai, Surinam; 

 Venezuela — Maupa, Suapure, Lourde 1700 m. 



Piaya cayana oolumbiana (Cab.). 



Pyrrhocorax columbianus Cabanis, Jour. f. Orn., 1862, p. 170 [Cartagena, 



Colombia]. 

 Pyrrhocorax mesurus Cabanis and Heine, Mus. Hein., IV, 1862, p. S3 [Bogota]. 



Length of wing, 5.65; tail, 11.85; length of culmen, 33 mm.; height, 

 12.5 mm. 



Above ferruginous, slightly paler on the head, tail and ends of wings, 

 with a gloss of ^dne purple in certain lights, flanks and crissum as in 

 cayana; under side of retrices rusty, more or less minutely flecked or 

 watered with black on the inner webs, broad, well-defined subterminal 

 black bands and white tips. 



This bird is indistinguishable from mexicana above, and differs below 

 only in the greater amount of black shading on the rectrices ; the greatest 

 difference is found in the much larger bill. Bogota specimens have a 

 still greater amount of black on the under side of the rectrices. 



Specimens exaixiined from Colombia — Santa Marta, Bonda, Bogota; 

 Venezuela — Cumanacoa, El Pilar, Valencia, Macuto, Santo Domingo, 

 2,000 m. 



Piaya cayana insulana Hellmayr. 



Piaya cayana insulana Hellmayr, Nov. Zool., XIII, p. 40 [Trinidad]. 



Length of wing, 5.58; tail, 9.30. 



Above ferruginous with a slight chestnut tint, closer in color to 

 columbianus and mexicanus than to cayana, tail rather darker with a 

 purplish gloss, thighs and crissum as in cayana. Under side of rectrices 

 dull black, the outermost one rusty on outer vane near the quill for 

 two-thirds of its length, the others largely rusty on the outer vane 

 except for a subterminal black area, some of them rusty, in certain 

 lights at least, on parts of the inner web, which helps to bring out an 

 obscure ill-defined subterminal band. 



Specimens examined from Trinidad. 



Piaya cayana mexicana (Swains.). 



Cuculus mexicanus Swainson, Pliilos. Mag., I, p. 440, 1827 [Tableland of 

 Temascaltepec]. 



Length of wing, 5.90; tail, 12.65. Length of culmen, 30 mm.; 

 height, 10 mm. 



Above ferruginous with wine purple reflections on the tail and ends 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



of the wings, below like colomhianus except that crissum is paler and 

 the rectrices are uniform rusty brown or pale ferruginous, except for 

 the subterminal black band and white tips ; some of the feathers have 

 the black flecking near the base, but it is not apparent unless the tail 

 is fully spread. 



Specimens examined from Mexico — Esquinapa, Mazatlan, Juana- 

 catlan, Barranca, Ibarra, Calete, Tupila River, Arroyo de Lemones. 



Piaya oayana melileri (Bonap.). 



Piaya mehleri Bonaparte, Conspct. A^'ium, I, p. 110, 1850 [Santa Fe de 



Bogota — loc. err. fide Sclater, P. Z. S., 1860, p. 285 = Cent. Amer.]. 

 Piaya thermophila Sclater, P. Z. S., 1859, p. -368 [Mexico and Guatemala]. 

 ?Cuculus ridibundus GnieHn, Syst. Nat., I, p. 414, 1788 [New Spain]. 

 7 Cuculus rubicundus Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool., IX, p. 109, 1815 [Mexico]. 



Length of wing, 5.80; tail, 10.90. 



Above like cayana, below darker, crissum dull black, thighs dark 

 gray; under side of rectrices dull black, outermost feather usually 

 uniform, the others with the outer vane more or less rusty, except for 

 a subterminal black area. Mexican birds average less rusty than those 

 from farther south. Occasional specimens have a slight watering of 

 rusty on some of the inner webs ; the subterminal band is never defined. 

 The coloration of the tail below is practically intermediate between 

 cayana and insulana. 



Mexican and Yucatan birds have the bill distinctly smaller than 

 those from Nicaragua and Panama. Mexican birds average larger than 

 those from the Central American countries and Yucatan specimens 

 average smaller, but these differences do not seem sufficiently marked 

 to deserve recognition in nomenclature. 



Specimens examined from Mexico — San Tan, Jalapa, Tampico, 

 Tehuantepec, Tabasco, Vera Cruz, Orizaba, Potrgro, Yucatan; Guate- 

 mala; Honduras — Ceiba, Truxillo, San Pedro Sula, Yaruca, Segovia 

 River; Salvador; Nicaragua — Managua, Chinnudeza, Escondido; Costa 

 Rica — San Jose, Guayabo, Pigres, Volcan de Irazu, Bonilla, Talamanca, 

 San Domingo de San Mateo; Panama — Boco del Toro, Chiriqui David, 

 Boquete. 



Piaya cayana cauoae subsp. nov. 



Length of wing, 5.60; tail, 12. 



Above bay strongly tinged with chestnut or dull ferruginous, wings 

 and tail with a wine purple gloss. Below similar to nigracrissa, but the 

 thighs as well as the crissum are deep black and the lower part of the 

 abdomen, so that this color encroaches upon the gray area more than in 

 any other race; under side of rectrices almost exactly as in insulana, 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Oct., 



the rusty tint being mainly restricted to the outer vanes of the feathers 

 and the black subterminal bands scarcely perceptible. 



This race is the brightest of the 'bay-backed ' series and approaches 

 insulana, the dullest of the 'ferruginous-backed' series, in the color of 

 the upper parts. 



Type No. 71,581, Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist. Rio Cauca, Colombia, 

 May 27, 1898. 6". J. H. Batty. Wing, 5.55 ins. ; tail, 12.10 ins. 

 Fiaya oayaua nigriorissa (Sclater). 



Piaya nigricrissa Sclater, P. Z. S., 1860, p. 285 and 297 [New Grenada and 

 Peru]. 



Length of wing, 5.45; tail, 10.20. 



Above bay with a strong wine purple gloss on wings and tail, thighs 

 dark gray, crissum blacker, less sooty than in mehleri; under side of 

 rectrices as in cayana, uniform dull black with the exception of the 

 white tips. 



Specimens examined from Colombia — Bogota ; Ecuador — Napo River, 

 Archidona, Guayaquil; Peru — ^headwaters of the Huallaga River, 

 Pebas. 



Piaya cayana pallescens (Cab. and Heine). 



Pyrrhocorax pallescens Cabanis and Heine, Mus. Hein., IV,^p. 86, 1862 [North 



Brazil]. 

 Piaya cayana cabanisi Allen, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., V, p. 136, 1893 



[Chapada, Matta Grosso, JBrazil]. 



Length of wing, 5.95; tail, 11.75. 



Upper parts similar to columbiana but paler, the bright ferruginous 

 modified by a tone of ochre; crissum and thighs paler than in colom- 

 biana, and abdomen paler than in any other race, under side of rectrices 

 nearly uniform rusty brown except for the white tips; the pale rusty 

 tint usually pervades the whole dark area instead of forming definite 

 patches, in some lights, however, the dusky subterminal bands are 

 clearly discernible. 



.g[I have studied Dr. Allen's series of cabanisi from Chapada, Matto 

 Grosso, and cannot find sufficient difference between them and birds 

 from more northern Brazilian localities to w^arrant separation from 

 pallescens. Five specimens of the latter give average length of wing 

 5.90 and tail 11.30, while ten Matto Grosso birds give wing 6, tail 12. 

 These differences are less than those shown by series of mehleri from 

 different parts of its range and since, as Dr. Allen admits, there are 

 practically no color differences, there seems to be no ground for recog- 

 nizing cabanisi as distinct. 



Dr. Allen was misled by the general recognition accorded to the more 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



southern macroura, to which he thought his bird must be referred, and 

 which he thought required a new name. 



Specimens examined from Chapada, Matto Grosso, Corumba, Matto 

 Grosso, Bahia, Para and Rio Janeiro. 



The Para specimen approaches cayana, while those from Rio Janeiro 

 are darker, showing a possible tendency toward macroura. 



Piaya cayana macroura (Gambel). 



Piaya macroura Gambel, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1849, p. 215 ['Suri- 

 nam' loc. err. fide Cabanis and Heine, Mus. Hein., IV, p. 87 = Paraguay]. 



Piaya dree Bonaparte, Consp. Avimn, I, p. 110, 1850 ['Colombia,' loc. 

 err. fide Cabanis and Heine = Paraguay]. 



P. c. var. guaurania von Hiring, Rev. Mus. Paulista, 1904, 448 [S. Brazil]. 



Length of wing, 6.75; tail, 15.10. 



Above walnut brown sometimes tinged with burnt umber, wings 

 tinged with chestnut and tail with bay, slightly glossed with wine 

 purple, head distinctly gray; thighs dark gray, crissum nearly black; 

 underside of rectrices dull black excepting the white tips, no trace of a 

 subterminal band. 



Specimens examined from Paraguay; Brazil — Rio Grande do Sul. 

 Piaya cayana boliviana subsp. nov. 



Length of wing, 5.85; tail, 11.50. 



Above walnut brown, wings and rump tinged with chestnut, tail 

 tinged with bay, both glossed with wine purple; flanks dark gray, 

 crissum slightly darker; under side of rectrices dull black with tips 

 white, no trace of a subterminal band. 



This race is exactly like macroura except for the gray crissum and 

 much smaller size. 



Type No. 30,850, Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist. Yungas, Bolivia. Dr. 

 H. H. Rusby. 6,000 ft. 1885. Wing, 5.90; tail, 11.60. 



Specimens examined from Bolivia — Yungas, La Paz; Peru — Inca 

 Mine. 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



November 3. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair, 

 Twenty-five persons present. 

 The Committee on tlie Hayden Memorial Award reported as follows : 



The Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geological Award 

 reports in favor of conferring the medal this year on John Mason 

 Clarke, State Geologist of New York, in recognition of the value of 

 his work in geology and especially of his memoir, Early Devonic His- 

 tory of New York and Eastern North America. In the opinion of the 

 Committee he ranks with the others who have received the recog- 

 nition. 



(Signed) Henry Fairfield Osborn, 



R. A. F. Penrose, Jr., 

 Amos P. Brown, 

 Frederick Prime, 

 Samuel G. Dixon, 



Committee. 



John Mason Clarke was born at Canandaigua, N. Y., April 15, 

 1857. His early education was received in the Canandaigua Academy, 

 of which his father was principal. In 1877 he graduated from Amherst 

 College and studied in the University of Gottingen from 1882 to 1884. 

 For a period he taught at the Canandaigua Academy and the Utica 

 Academy and in 1879 was instructor in geology at Amherst. From 

 1880 to 1882 he was professor of geology and zoology at Smith College, 

 and in 1885 lecturer on geology at the Massachusetts Agricultural 

 College. In 1886 he was appointed assistant in paleontology under 

 Prof. James Hall, State geologist of New York; in 1892 assistant State 

 geologist and paleontologist; in 1898 State paleontologist; in 1904 

 State geologist and paleontologist, director of the State Museum and 

 the Science division of the Education department; in 1894 he was made 

 professor of geology and mineralogy in the Rensselaer Polytechnic 

 Institute. In 1908 the Iroquois Nation received him into their mem- 

 bership as keeper of their historic archives with the ancient title of this 

 office. His scientific publications, chiefly on geology and paleontology, 

 and extending over a period of thirty years, are somewhat voluminous, 

 and, though largely relating to the State of New York, include also 

 parts of Canada, Maine, South America and Germany. His most com- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



prehensive treatises are The North American Devonian Crustacea (1888), 

 Introduction to the Study of the Genera of the Paleozoic Brachiopoda 

 (1892 and 1894), and The Paleozoic Reticidate Sponges (1898), all pub- 

 lished in titular conjunction with James Hall; The Naples Fauna (1899 

 and 1904), The Early Devonic of New York and Eastern North America 

 (1908). In addition to numerous other papers on problems in geology- 

 he has also written on ceramics. 



He received the degrees of A.M. and Ph.D. {honoris causa) from the 

 University of Marburg in 1898; LL.D. from Amherst, 1902. 



November 17. 

 The President, Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, in the Chair. 



Thirty-nine persons present. 



The Chair announced the death of Alfred Wlielen, November 18,1 907 ; 

 William Potts, July 29, 1908, members, and of William K. Brooks, a 

 correspondent, November 12, 1908. 



In association with the Biological and Microscopical Section, Mr. 

 Charles S. Boyer made a communication on the synonymy and 

 relationships of Surirella and described a new species of diatom from 

 the miocene deposits of Barbadoes, for which he proposed the name 

 Cymatopleura Shulzi. 



Dr. Thomas S. Stewart spoke of the bacillus of syphilis and sug- 

 gested methods of staining. 



Mr. Frank J. Keeley exhibited slides illustrating secondary 

 crystallization of early Hmestone and showing the Brownian motion of 

 smoke particles on dark-ground illumination. 



Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry spoke of the geographical distribution of 

 Strohilops. 



The following papers on the report of the Publication Committee 

 were accepted for publication: 



"On the Cicindelinae of Angola." By F. Creighton Wellman, M.D., 

 and Walther Horn, M.D. (September 26). 



"Remarks on Prof. Chamberlin's Revision of North American 

 Lycosidae." By Thomas H. Montgomery (October 27). 



Sydney L. Wright, Jr., was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



ON THE CICINDELIN^ OF ANGOLA. 



BY F. CREIGHTON WELLMAN, IVI.D., F.E.S., AND WALTHER HORN, M.D. 



Very little has been known until now about the Cicindelinse of Angola. 

 Most of the species described are represented by uniques or a few 

 specimens, excepting, of course, those occurring in other parts of Africa. 

 The discovery of the "typical" Angolan forms is almost entirely con- 

 nected with the names of four collectors, namely: Friedrich Wel- 

 witsch, the distinguished Austrian botanist who collected for the 

 Museum of Lisbon;. A. v. Hohmeyer and Dr. P. Pogge, whose collec- 

 tions now belong to the Royal Zoological Museum of Berlin, and 

 Major von Mechow, whose specimens are at present in the collection 

 of Rene Oberthiir. These last were described by Quedenfeldt, Sr., 

 Harold worked up the material for the Berlin Museum, and Putzevs 

 pubhshed concerning the Portuguese collections. 



Beyond these only a few species, mostly based on single specimens 

 and some without exact localities, have from time to time been sent 

 to Europe, most of them described by one of the authors of the present 

 paper (W. H.). 



While not less than six genera in thirty-five species^ are known 

 from this so highly interesting part of Africa, yet this is the first time 

 that large material with exact bionomical notes has become available 

 — material which permits of a distinct advance in our knowledge of 

 this interesting family. It seems, therefore, a suitable opportunity to 

 present our notes on the habits and relations of the species occurring 

 in Angola, and we have made the list complete by including the species 

 reported by other observers as well as ourselves. One very peculiar 

 and interesting new form is described. 



In taking up a faunistic study of this kind it is always interesting 

 to note the general features of the climate, soil and flora of the region 

 discussed, as these must always have a bearing on the habits and dis- 

 tribution of its animal life. For the purposes of this paper our district 

 may be divided into three regions : lowlands, mountainous slopes, and 



' Twenty species of these were taken in Angola bv one of us (F. C. W.) during 

 1906-08. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 505 



plateau. The first of these extends from the sea to a point 30 to 100 

 miles inland, according to the configuration of the country, and its most 

 typical plant may be said to be the cocoanut palm, which will grow 

 wherever moisture enough is obtainable. The soil is over parts of 

 this belt strongly calcareous, being of recent geological formation, 

 abounding in various fossils such as anamonites and trilobites. Other 

 parts are the result of silt being carried down by erosion of the older 

 interior mountains. The rainfall in this part is very scanty, as the 

 storms come from the east and are intercepted by the highlands and 

 mountains, only the heaviest and most general rains for a small portion 

 of the year reaching the lowlands to the west. The vegetation is in 

 consequence sparse, consisting of a few shrubs and thorny or fleshy 

 trees. The grass grows in little discrete clumps and dries up and almost 

 disappears during the greater part of the year. In this region only 

 five species of Cicindelinae were encountered: Cicindela brevicollis 

 intermedia Klug, C. melancholica F., C. nitidula Dej., C. cdbinda Bat. 

 and Eurymorpha cyanipes mouffleti Fairm., the last three of which 

 occur on the seashore. 



The second region may be said to extend inland from the first region 

 to a point marked by the limits of the occurrence of the baobab tree 

 (Adansonia digitata). The basis of this is a vast primary system, 

 consisting of various metamorphic rocks, chiefly granite and sandstone. 

 The soil is a sandy loam alternating with red clays. Of course, there 

 is a great mixture of soils in the lower levels and valleys of this region. 

 Huge granite mountains and boulders abound. The vegetation is 

 very dense in canons and valleys and along rivers, -..and in the rainy 

 season the grass is often long, coaree and deixse, forming a sort of jungle. 

 Many large trees (Anonacese, Anacardacese, Guttiferse, etc.) abound 

 in the jungles near streams. The most inland valleys of this region 

 have a flora approaching that of the highland region yet to be described, 

 and it was here that most of the species discussed in this paper were 

 taken, our specimens including Cicindela Mechowi Qued., C. lutaria 

 W. Horn, C. saraliensis Guer., C. uncivittata Qued., C. infuscata Qued., 

 C. Putzeijsi W. Horn, C. angusticollis Boh., C. villosa Putz.. C. flavi- 

 pes Putz., C. Wellmani W. Horn, C. reticostata n. sp., Odontochila 

 erythropyga Putz., Cosmema Wellmaiii W. Horn, C. marginepunc- 

 tata W. Horn, C. auropunctata Qued., etc. The climate of this region 

 is intermediate between that of the foregoing and that of the region 

 about to be described, being cooler and moister than the lowlands, 

 without equalling in these respects the highlands. 



The third region is the high plateau forming the Bihe and parts of 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



the Bailundo and Andulo countries. This is part of the alpine region 

 of Africa, and is to be classed with Abyssinia, Ruenzori and the Nyassa- 

 Tanganyika highlands. The soils are about as in the middle region and 

 the country is, geologically speaking, very old, being entirely under- 

 laid with archaean metamorphic rocks. The grass is comparatively 

 short and thickly set together, quite covering the ground. The bulk 

 of the trees are Leguminosae and are as a rule not large, forming what 

 is known as "bush." One of the Rosaceae (Paranarium mohola) is 

 the largest and most striking tree. Many IMalvacese and Ampelidae 

 add to the smaller aspects of the landscape. The cUmate is moist and 

 cool and is essentially subtropical and not tropical. The species found 

 in the center of this last region are Cicindela suturalis Putz., C. Mechowi 

 Qued., Ophryodera rufomarginata Boh., and Mantichora congoensis" 

 P6r. At the western border of this region, almost at a point where it 

 joins the second region (vide supra) were taken several other species, 

 namely: Cicindela angusticollis Boh., C. uncivittata Qued., C.infuscata 

 Qued., C. Putzeysi W. Horn, C. fiavipes Putz., C. villosa Putz. and 

 Cosmema auropunctata Qued. 



Following is a list of all recorded species^ from Angola, including 

 our own material, much of which is here reported for the first time, 

 together with our notes on the habits of the beetles and the description 

 of a new species. 



CICINDELIN.E. 



CICINDELINI. 



Odontochilina. 



1. Odontochila erythropyga Putz., Jorn. Sci. Lisb., ]880, p. 24. 



= variventris Qued., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883, p. 245. 

 Without exact locality (Welwitsch);..Malange (Mechow);..Ekekete 

 Mountain, two hours south of Ekuiva River, November, 1907 (Wellman) . 

 The specimens were taken in thin grass near a large swarm of Meloid 

 beetles {Lytta amethystina) which at some distance they distinctly re- 

 sembled. 



Oicindelina. 



2. Cicindela aulioa Dej., Spec. V, 1831, p. 250. 



Without exact locality (Welwitsch). An intermediate form between 

 the typical aulica and the subsp. polysita Guer. occurs in Loanda. 



3. Cicindela aspemla Duf.. Ann. Sc. Phys., VIII, 1821, p. 359, pi. 130, f. 1. 



Kuango (Mechow). 



^ All the material collected by Wellman is in W. Horn's collection, where also 

 all the other species are represented, except Cicindela leucopicta Qued. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



4. Cioindela nitidula Dej., Spec I, 1825, p. 120. 



[> /^Without exact locality (Welwitsch) ; Landana, Loango (U. ]\Iore) ; 

 Lobito Bay, April, 1908 (Wellman). Taken on the beach (that part 

 which is kept more or less wet by the tides), and by its coloring the 

 beetle is rendered inconspicuous as it sits on the sand, and is usually 

 noticeable only when flying. 



5. Cioindela cabinda Bat., Ci.st. Ent. II, 1878, p. 331. 



Landana, Loango (U. More); Lobito Bay, April, 1908 (Wellman). 

 Habits exactly like C. nitidula, with which it was found in company. 



6. Cioindela brevioollis clathrata^ Dej., Spec I, 1825, p. 115. 



Mossamedes. 



brevicollis neglecta* Dej., Spec. I, 1S25, p. 114. 

 Malange (Mechow); mthout exact locality (Wel-uitsch). There 

 occurs near Mossamedes an intermediate form between this last and the 

 var. damara Per. 



brevicollis discoidalis Dej., Spec. I, 1825, p. 114. 

 Kuango. 



brevicollis intermedia Ivlug, Monatschr. Berl. Acad., 1853, p. 245. 

 Quanza ( Homey er), Loanda. 



7. Cioindela uncivittata^ Qued., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1S83, p. 242. 



Malange (Mechow), -..north bank of Ekuiva River, November, 1907 

 (Wehman). Found on the path, dark soil. 



exigica^ Kolbe, Ent. Nachr., 1885, p. 50. 

 South bank of Ekuiva River, November, 1907 (Wellman), clayey 

 soil. 



8. Cioindela obtusidentata Putz., Jorn. Sci. Lisb., 1880, p. 22. 



Bocagei Chd. in litt., Cat. Coll. Cic, p. 28. 

 Without exact locality (Welwitsch). 



9. Cioindela wellmani W. Horn, Deutsch. Ent. Zeitschr., 1907, p. 421. 



Chiyaka, November, 1906, and November, 1908 (Wellman). In 

 paths or on other bare places, clayey soil, on which the coloring of the 

 beetle makes it hard to see. Very ant-like in its movements. 



^ Putzeys gave to this subspecies (and some specimens of the following) the 

 wrong name Cioindela senegalensis, cf. Jorn. Sci. Lisb., 1880, p. 21. 



* Putzeys thought this to be Cioindela pudica Boh., cf. Jorn. Sci. Lisb., I.e. 

 ^ This is the blackish form. 



• This is the brownish form. 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADElVn' OF [NoV., 



10. Cioindela mecliowr Qued., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883, p. 248, pi. 3, f. 3. 



Malange (Mechow), Hiiilla (Welwitsch), Kakonda, Duque de Bra- 

 ganga, Bihe, Chiyaka, Ekuiva River (Wellman). Several forms 

 occur, with and without white sutural stripe, both brownish and green. 

 These beetles appeared to be very scarce until a large artificial bare 

 place was prepared, when mechowi and several other species appeared 

 in great numbers. The brownish form usually appears on clayey soil. 

 When alive they have a strong verbena-like smell. They are strong 

 flyers and very pugnacious. A specimen kept over night in a cage 

 with some other beetles was found next morning chewing the thorax 

 of a Meloid beetle {Eletica rufa F.). 



11. Cicindela grandis W. Horn, Ent. Nachr., 1897, p. 240. 



Without exact locahty, one single 9 . 



12. Cioindela prodotiformis W. Horn, Deutsch. Ent. Zeitschr., 1892, p. 88; 1894, pi. 3, f. 7. 



Without exact locality, one single 9 . 



13. Cicindela leucopicta Qued., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1888, p. 157. 



Lunda kingdom (between Kuango and Loango), 1 9 (Mueller), 

 10, IX, 1884, on open places of the savannas. 



14. Cicindela interrupta Fabr., Syst. Ent., 1775, p. 225. 



graphica Bat., Cist. Ent., II, 1878, p. 330. 

 Kuango (Mechow) ; without exact locality (Rogers) ; common. 



15. Cicindela saraliensis Guer., Rev. Zool., 1849, p. 80. 



flammulata Qued., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883, p. 241, pi. 3, f. 1. 

 This last is nothing but a form with more yellow spots on the elytra. 

 Malange (Mechow); Chiyaka, Mt. Elende, November, 1906; Ekuiva 

 River, November, 1907 (Wellman). Our specimens are the flammu- 

 lata form, and were found on dark soil. The beetle does not fly, and 

 is often found in the edge of woods near certain Cosmemce, but not with 

 them. On one occasion a living specimen was taken with an ant 

 {Pheidole punctulata Mayr.) hanging to its leg. 



16. Cicindela angusticoUis Boh., Ins. Caffr., I, 1848, p. 15. 



Mossamedes, Chiyaka, November, 1906; Ekuiva River, November, 

 1907 (Wellman). Does not fly, a very rapid runner; common. 



17. Cioindela muaia Har., Mittheil. Munch. Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 99. 



Malange (Mechow); interior (possibly Congo Free State), without 

 exact locality (Pogge). 



' Cicindela lugubris Putz., Jorti. Sci. Lisb., 18S0, p. 22, is tlie true C. ynechowi. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



IS. Cicindela (Ophryodera) rufomarginata' bohemani P^r., Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1888, 



Huilla. There also occur individuals with less broadly confluent 

 pattern. 



rufomarginata poggei Har., Mittheil. Miinch. Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 99' Col. 

 Hefte, 1879, p. 11, pi. 1, f. 1. 



Interior (perhaps Congo Free State) without exact locality (Pogge). 

 rufomarginata distanti Heath, Entomol., 1905, p. 97. 



Duque de Braganga, Bihe, Kuango (Mechow), Lunda (Buchner), 

 Chipeyo, November 18, 1906 (Wellman). Found on white sand. 

 Flies rather heavily. 



rufomarginata richteri^ W. Horn, Deutsch. Ent. Zeitschr., 1892, p. 72' 1894 

 pi. 3, f. 9; 1906, pi. 1, f. 16. 



Malange (Mechow). 

 19. Cicindela reticostata nov. spec. 



Cicindelce qiiadricostatce W. Horn 9 affinis, differt statura 

 minore; labro medio non producto, parte centrali dentes 3 

 ferente a lobis lateralibus incisura majore separata; prothoracis 

 parte media globosiore, lateribus ad strangulationem basalem 

 magis curvatis (ita ut pars basalis distinctior appareat), disco 

 sulcum basalem versus evidenter magis declivi, superficie sequa- 

 liter grosse sed irregularius rugata atraque; elytris fere parallelis, 

 sohunmodo in medio Icvissime ampliatis, himieris latioribus quam 

 in ilia specie, apice (conjunctim) brevius rotundato, signatura nulla, 

 sculptura sequaliter subtili, sed punctis reticularibus fere ubique variis 

 in directionibus (aut trans versaliter, aut longitudinaliter, aut oblique 

 aut in lineis distincte curvatis) confluentibus : rugis hoc modo formatis 

 non quam cetera sculptura grossioribus ; ''striis" 2 vix elevatis basi 

 incipientibus fere longitudinalibus (perparum suturam versus postice 

 vergentibus) indistinctis in utroque elytro visibihbus (irregularius 

 confluenter quam partibus adjacentibus sculptis), altera prope suturam 

 ultra medium, altera in disco centrali fere ad medium ducta, postice 

 sensim evanescentibus ; 3*^ etiam leviore indistinctioreque in disco 

 laterali ante medium omnino disparente solummodo visu obhquo 

 percipienda ; depressionibus ("sulcis," ut ita dicam) inter has 3 

 "strias" (quae vix costulse possunt nominari) et spatio juxtasuturali 

 modice cuprascentibvis ; antennis non foliaceis, articulis 5°-8° solum- 



' Ophryodera rufomarginata, as recorded by Putzeys, consists of the subspecies 

 bohemani and distanti, cf. Jorn. Sci. Lisb., 1880, p. 25. 



* Recorded by Quedenfeldt as O. rufomarginata, rid. Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883 

 p. 247. ' 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



modo pauUo dilatatis; palpis (articulo ultimo nigro) flavis; capite 

 elytrisque nigricantibus opacis, vix hinc inde perparum senescentibus ; 

 corpore siibtiis modice nitente iiigricante;..genis anticis, meta-episternis 

 cum parte adjacente metasterni, elytrorum epipleuris cyanescentibus ; 

 pedibus, coxis, trochanteribus nigricantibus, hinc inde perparum 

 viridi aut aeneo-variegatis ; totis pectoris partibus (metasterni parte 

 discoidali et postico-centrali nuda), abdominis et coxarum posticarum 

 lateribus late modice dense breviter pilosis; fronte nuda, solummodo 

 prope antennarum insertionem setis 2 ornatis, pronoto in specimine 

 unico nudo (semper?); 2 primis antennarum articulis nudis, 3° et 4° 

 supra breviter modice sparsim setosis. Long. 17 mm. (sine labro). 



A single 6^ from the Enyalanganja or great plains, 3 hours south of 

 the Ekuiva River, November, 1907 (Wellman). 



It is one of the most peculiar species of the whole genus, belonging 

 to the interesting laeta-quadristriata group, reported only from the 

 tropics of Africa. The labrum is black with a testaceous patch in the 

 middle, the 3 middle teeth are just a little less prominent than the 

 lateral tooth. Front and pronotum are roughly and deeply wrinkled. 

 The sutural angle of the elytra is rectangular without a developed 

 spine. All tarsi, as in Cicindela quadristriata, sulcated. The 1st, 3d 

 and 4th articles of the antennae are on their upper part slightly carinate. 



The size, color and sculpture of this species, and especially its move- 

 ments, lend it when alive the appearance of a Carabid. It did not 

 attempt to fly when pursued, although it was in bright sunshine. 



20. Cicindela villosa Putz., Jom. Sci. Lisb., 1880, p. 22. 



= semicuprea Qued., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883, p. 244. 



Malange (Mechow); Huilla (Lobo d'Avila); Chipeyo, November, 

 1906; Chiyaka, Ekuiva River, November, 1907 (Wellman). Taken 

 on dark soil, often in short grass. It has a good cryptic coloring and 

 is hard to see. 



21. Cicindela flavipes Putz., Jom. Sci. Lisb., 1880, p. 23. 



= nuUfera Qued., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883, p. 243, pi. 3, f. 2. 



Malange (Mechow); Duque de Braganga; Cliipeyo, November, 1906; 

 Chiyaka, Ekuiva River, Kasenya Mines, November, 1907 (Wellman). 

 This species occurs almost entirely on feldspathic soil, against which 

 its indistinct light-colored markings make it almost impossible to see, 

 except when it is in motion. It was only taken once or twice on red 

 or dark soil, but one could count on finding it in abundance as soon 

 as a bit of whitish soil rich in kaolin was reached. 



22. Cicindela suturalis Putz., Jom. Sci. Lisb., 1880, p. 25. 



Huilla (Lobo d'Avila), Bihe, December, 1906 (Wellman). Taken 

 in short grass, after most Cicindelidse had disappeared. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



23. Cicindela Putzeysi W. Horn, Deutsch. Ent. Zeitschr., 1900, p. 207. 



Kakonda; Chiyaka, November, 1906; Ekuiva River, 1907 (Well- 

 man). This reddish species almost always occurred on clayey soil, 

 and usually together with C. mechowi {vide supra) In Chiyaka it 

 was taken on the artificial bare place made for the purpose of attract- 

 ing Cicindelidae. A pecuhar point noted is that this beetle jumps 

 and flies like a small grasshopper which is always found with it. On 

 one occasion a large Asilid fly was observed to catch a specimen of C. 

 putzeysi. 



24. Cicindela infuscata Qued., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883, p. 245. 



Malange (Mechow); Chipeyo, November, 1906; Chiyaka, Ekuiva 

 River, November, 1907 (Wellman). Three forms occur: coppery, 

 green and blackish. It was noted that the coppery form occurred in 

 the valleys on clayey soil, together with Cicindela mechovn, and C. 

 putzeysi, while the green form was taken on the mountain sides among 

 moss, etc., in company with Odontochila erythropyga (vide supra). 



25. Cicindela melancliolioa Fabr., Ent. Syst., Suppl., 1798, p. 63. 



Malange (Mechow) ; Chincoxo, without exact locahty (Welwitsch) ; 

 Loanda (Hohmeyer); Benguella, edges of city, April, 1908 (Well- 

 man). This species was taken on mud from partially dried-up pools; 

 very common. In the same places (on the dry sand around the pools) 

 occurred great numbers of a Carabid beetle (Graphipterus sp.). 



26. Cicindela vicina Dej., Spec. V, 1831, p. 244. 



Without exact locality (Welwitsch), 



27. Cicindela lutaria Gu^r., Rev. Mag. Zool., 1849, p. 118; Mag. Zool., 1845, pi. 161, figs. 5, 6. 



Ekuiva River, November, 1907 (Wellman). This species was found 

 at the edge of the river, in a place which had been previously over- 

 flowed. The habits seem to be identical with those of Cicindela 

 melancholica. 



28. Cicindela octoguttata Fabr., Mant., 1,1787, p. 187. 



29. Eurymorpha cyanipes mouffleti Fairm., Ann Soc. Fr., 1856. p. 95. 



Cape Negro, Mossamedes. 



Dromicina. 



30. Dromica tricostata W. Horn, Ent. Nachr., 1897, p. 237. 



Without exact locality ; a single 9 . 



31. Dromica (Cosmema) auropunctata Qued., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883, p. 249, pi. 3, f. 4. 



Malange (Mechow); Chiyaka, Chipeyo, November, 1906 (Wellman). 

 This species may be found in rather thick bush, and when pursued will 

 hide under dry leaves like ants,, which insects it greatly resembles in 

 its movements. 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



32. Dromica (Cosmema) marginepunctata W. Horn, Notes Leyd. Mus., 1908, p. 32. 



Chiyaka, Ekuiva River, November, 1907 (Wellman). Is even more 

 shade-loving than the preceding (which is often found in the open) 

 and occurs in enormous numbers in the bush. Its habits are hke 

 auropunctata. 



33. Dromica (Cosmema) wellmani W. Horn, Notes Leyd. Mus., 1908, p. 31. 



Ciyaka, Ekuiva River, November, 1907 (Wehman). Habits just 

 like the preceding species, which it so closel}^ resembles that it is impos- 

 sible to distinguish them in the field and in company with which it 

 usually occurs. 



MEGAOEPHALINI. 

 Megacephalina. 



34. Megacephala regalis Boh. Ins. Cafifr., I, 1848, p. 2. 



Cuissange, 1 d^ ; near Impulu River, November, 1899, 1 d^. Both 

 of more elongate elytra than the typical form. 



MANTICHORINI. 



35. Mantioliora congoensis Per., Ann. Nat. Hist., 18SS, p. 219. 



= Livingstonei Har., Col. Hefte, 16, 1879, p. 9. 



Bihe; interior without exact locality, possibly Congo Free State 

 (Pogge). 



In conclusion : there are still two species of Cicindela known in tropi- 

 cal Africa, and very common to the north, east and south of Angola, which 

 almost surely occur in Angola itself, although not yet found there, namely, 

 Cicindela nilotica Dej. and C. dongalensis imperatrix Srnka. It is also 

 probable that the common Cicindela regalis Dej., which is widespread 

 in the regions to the north, east and southeast of the district here dis- 

 cussed, will be one day reported from Angola. Cicindela cincta Fabr., 

 the common species reported from the mouth of the Senegal to Bahr- 

 al-Ghazal and the Kassai, may likewise touch the boundaries of Angola 

 somewhere. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



REMARKS ON PROF. CHAMBERLIN'S REVISION OF NORTH AMERICAN 

 LYCOSID.E. 



BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR. 



In Part II of Volume LX of the Proceedings of the Academy of Nat- 

 ural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1908, Prof. R. V. Chamberlin has a 

 memoir entitled a "Revision of North American Spiders of the Family 

 Lycosidffi." This paper is one of decided importance in introducing 

 generic characters based upon the structure of the copulatory organs, 

 and in presenting detailed descriptions of the species. But it is only 

 fair to my antecedent studies on the same group that I should make 

 certain brief criticisms, lest later students might consider Prof. Cham- 

 berlin's paper as finally conclusive and authoritative. 



In my "Description of North American Araneae of the Famihes 

 Lycosidae and Pisauridse" (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904) I recog- 

 nized among other valid species twenty that had been described and 

 named by me, whereby I relegated to the synonymy certain few species 

 that I had described as new in two preceding papers. Of these twenty 

 species of which I am the author Prof. Chamberlin regards only two 

 worthy of recognition under the names I had given them, to which 

 treatment I would enter the following partial criticism: 



(1) Prof. Chamberlin fails to mention at all two of my species, 

 Lycosa mccooki and Trochosa contestata. 



(2) He places my Trochosa noctuabunda as a questionable synonym 

 of his Allocosa degesta; but if these species are identical my name 

 should have the priority. 



(3) He makes my Lycosa antelucana a synonym of L. apicata Banks ; 

 but my description was published in March, and that of Banks not until 

 June, 1904, hence the name antelucana has the priority. 



(4) He enters five of my species as synonyms of four of those of 

 Hentz, by resuscitating Hentz's Lycosa saltatrix, fativera, milvina and 

 funerea. For each of the first two of these species Hentz gave a four- 

 fine description, for milvina a five-line, and for funerea only three lines, 

 and his figures are lacking in all necessary details. In 1904 I had 

 written: "At the present time it is practically impossible to identify 

 most of the species of Walckenaer, Blackwall, Hentz and some others, 




oI4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



because some of their species are so insufficiently described that a 

 particular description applies equally well to a number of species." 

 Thus Prof. Chamberlin makes, it seems to me, and I take no unusual 

 stand, a grave mistake in resuscitating these and certain other names 

 of Hentz, for the descriptions are practically valueless, the figures in 

 many cases of little more importance, and nothing but uncertainty is to 

 be gained by replacing names based upon detailed descriptions with 

 ones founded upon inadequate diagnoses unsupported by type speci- 

 mens. Then Prof. Chamberlin places my Lycosa relucens and L. 

 charonoides as synonyms' of saltatrix Hentz, though these species of 

 mine differ in important structural characters ; and similarly he classes 

 my Pardosa scita, that is clearly separable from P. nigropalpis Emerton, 

 with the latter as synonyms of Lycosa milvina Hentz. 



(5) Prof. Chamberlin subjugates my Pardosa mercurialis to lapi- 

 diana Emerton, though these differ in proportion of the legs and in 

 the genital armature. Then he places my Geolycosa texana under 

 Lycosa carolinensis Hentz, though these exliibit a marked difference 

 in the eyes of the anterior row. Further, he brings my Lycosa euepigy- 

 nata, L. insopita and Trochosa purcelli all under Lycosa gulosa 

 Walckenaer, though Walckenaer in his brief seven-Hne description states 

 only the color and a few details concerning the eyes, and though I 

 had shown that Lycosa insopita "comes closest to L. euepigynata, 

 but differs from it in slightly shorter relative length of the legs, in 

 greater relative width of the cephalothorax (in insopita less than one- 

 quarter longer than broad, in euepigynata decidedly more than one- 

 quarter), in the dark coloration of the venter, and in the structure of 

 the genitalia. It differs also from L. purcelli, the epigynum of which 

 is'very similar, in the slightly greater relative length of the legs, in 

 greater size, and markedly in the coloration." 



(6) Prof. Chamberlin has also withdrawn Geolycosa mihi (of which 

 Scaptocosa Banks is a synonym) into Lycosa Latreille, Yet Geolycosa 

 differs markedly from any true Lycosa in the size and length of the first 

 legs and in their possession of thick scopulse. 



Had I the time to do so, I believe I could satisfactorily re-establish 

 all of my species that Prof. Chamberlin has tried to disestablish. He 

 has not seen any of the type specimens in my private collection, though 

 I would gladly have given him access to them had I known he was 

 preparing a revision. His revision needs a considerable amount of 

 emendation. What we should all of us do in such matters is not to 

 work apart but in co-operation, and this is almost essential for progress 

 in systematic studies. When the time has come for a taxonomic 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



revision of any group, those who have contributed most to the subject 

 should bring their collections together in one place, and there they 

 should institute their comparisons conjointly. I stated in my memoir of 

 1904: "This paper is by no means a comprehensive monograph, but 

 is intended to be a help to the one who comes later with sufficient 

 material at his disposal to make the monograph." The main defi- 

 ciency in Prof. Chamberlin's revision seems to have been insufficient 

 type material. 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC; 



December 1. 

 Arthur Erwix Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Ninety-seven persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following 

 titles had been presented for publication: 



"Synopsis of the Cyprinidse of Pennsylvania." By Henry W, 

 Fowler (November 30). 



"On the Meloidse of Angola." By F. Creighton Wellman, M.D. 

 (December 1). 



"On a New Species of Diatom of the Genus Cymatopleura. " By 

 Charles S. Boyer (December 1). 



Dr. F. Creighton Wellman made a communication on the natural 

 history of West Africa. (No abstract.) 



December 15. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-two persons present. * 



The reception of papers under the following titles was announced 

 by the Publication Committee: 



"Notes on Polinices didyma, with Description of a new Australian 

 Species." By H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta (December 5). 



"On the Teeth of Hawaiian Species of Helicina. " By H. A. Pils- 

 bry and C, Montague Cooke (December 5). 



" Clausiliidse of the Japanese Empire, XII." By^Henry A. Pilsbry 

 (December 10). 



"New Land MoUusca of the Japanese Empire." By H. A. Pilsbry 

 and G. Hirase (December 11). 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



A SYNOPSIS OF THE CYPRINID^ OF PENNSYLVANIA. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Though my studies on our local fishes began in 1897 and have 

 since continued, I have not paid especial attention to the Cyprinidae 

 till recently. The more or less complete collections made in that 

 time, in the southeastern portion of the State at least, have made it 

 possible for me to give some study to the individual variation of cer- 

 tain characters in detail and to local distribution. The results 

 are introduced in the present paper, together with notes and redescrip- 

 tions of typical specimens of species described from within the pre- 

 scribed limits. The examination of the mass of material, which in 

 the cases of the common forms usually consists of large series of 

 hundreds of specimens, has enabled me to present a fairly accurate 

 summary. 



As so many of our western streams are polluted, or becoming so, 

 the fish-fauna will probably soon be largely, if not wholly, exterminated, 

 especially in the larger basins. I have found this condition to exist 

 in a number of streams of lesser size. This is all the more unfortu- 

 nate for our present purpose, as the greater variety of forms is found 

 in these larger streams, or about them, the mountain-brooks usually 

 being noteworthy for their paucity of species. 



The first complete account of our Cyprinidas was Cope's elaborate 

 memoir published many years ago.^ Though exhaustive so far as 

 his material and observations would permit at the time, the work 

 is veiy incomplete, besides being encumbered by various notes, descrip- 

 tions and discussions more or less irrelevant. It is, however, of great 

 value, not only in making known a number of new forms and as a 

 contribution to systematic ichthyology, but in discussing the 

 distribution and to some extent the habits of the various species. 

 Previous to this work all the accounts or records of the CyprinidsB 

 of Pennsylvania were to be found in a few scattered papers. Later, in 

 Cope's account of the fish-fauna of the State,^ a work intended more as 



> Synopsis of the Cypriiiidae of Pennsylvania, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., 

 XIII, n. s., 1869, pp. 351-399, Pis. 10-13. 



2 The Fishes of Pennsylvania, Rep. State Comm. Fish., 1879-80 (1881), pp. 59- 

 145, figs. 1-44. 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF • [DeC, 



a semi-popular descriptive catalogue, the Cyprinidse are again treated 

 as a whole. Bean then gives^ a largely compiled account of the same 

 nature, introducing also several hypothetical species. These latter 

 I have placed in foot-notes in the present paper. The contribution 

 by Evermann and BoUman^ on the Monongahela fishes is especially 

 valuable in furnishing us with an account of a basin which is now 

 much polluted. Finally, in a recent paper,^ I have mentioned a num- 

 ber of localities where much of my own material was obtained, and 

 thus mapped out the local distribution of some species. 



I have not recorded any examinations of the stomachs of some 

 of the species, leaving the details to be incorporated in future work. 

 Little attention is, therefore, given here to the food of the different 

 forms. 



The introduced species, such as the carp and gold fish, are not treated 

 in this paper. 



In explanation of the squamation formulas it may be said that the 

 median lateral longitudinal count of scales is in the lateral line, when 

 present, to the base of the caudal fin, and that the few on the latter 

 to be added are signified by the interpolated plus mark. Above 

 the lateral line the scales are counted obliquely down from the origin 

 of the dorsal fin posteriorly, and below obliquely up from the origin 

 of the anal fin forward. 



Acknowledgment is here made to those who" have so kindly assisted 

 me in securing material used in this work, their names being mentioned 

 elsewhere in my local works. 



All of the specimens used in the preparation of this paper are now 

 contained in the Academy's collections. 

 Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). 



Head 3^ to 4^; depth 3| to 5; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i; A. iii, 

 6, i; scales 43 to 55 -h 2 to 4, usually 2 or 3; usually 7 scales above 

 1. 1., occasionally 8; usually 6 scales below 1. 1., occasionally 7; 13 to 

 16 scales transversely from dorsal in young with incomplete 1. 1.; 

 18 to 25 predorsal scales; snout 2^ to 3f in head; eye 3^ to 6|; maxil- 

 lary 3 to 4^; interorbital 2^ to 3|; teeth 4-4. Body stout, moderately 

 compressed, predorsal gibbous in adult. Snout moderately convex. 

 Scales crowded anteriorly. Color brownish, tinted oHve or green 



3 The Fishes of Pennsvh^ania, Rep. State Comm. Fish., 1889-91 C1892) dd 

 1-149, Pis. 1-35. " V A 1 H- 



* Notes on a Collection of Fishes from the Monongahela River, A7in N Y 

 Acad. ScL, III, 1883-85 (1886), pp. 335-340. 



^ Records of Pennsylvania Fishes, Am. Nat., XLI, 1907, pp. 5-21. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



above. Scales somewhat mottled. Diisky vertical bar behind 

 opercle. Dusky cross-bar on dorsal and anal, other fins bright red 

 in spring-males, olive in females. Nearly entire upper surface of spring- 

 males tuberculous, and iris golden. Very variable, young differ in 

 appearance from adults. Length If to 6|- inches. Many examples 

 from Beaver and Kiskiminitas Rivers, Port Allegany (McKean Co.), 

 and Newcastle (Lawrence Co.). 



Found in the more quiet waters of our streams, frequently in small 

 runs and the deeper pools. It feeds on the bottom, frequently asso- 

 ciated with other small fishes, and is rather sluggish, though active if 

 disturbed. I have not found it in the small colder mountain brooks. 

 In the spring it ascends small brooks to spawn. I have found it some- 

 times infested with a fungus, appearing as a white fluffy growth, 

 in which cases the fish appears sickly or stupid. Not being very hardy 

 it is of little use as bait. It reaches a length of 8 inches and is little 

 valued as a pan fish. In our limits it is distributed only west of the 

 Alleghanies. 



Chrosomus erythrogaster (Rafinesque). 



Head 3|; depth 4|-; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales about 88 + 4; 

 28 scales transversely from dorsal to ventral origin; 40 predorsal 

 scales; snout 3f in head; eye 3|; maxillary 3f ; interorbital 3. Body 

 compressed, fusiform, deepest medianly. Head compressed, rather 

 tapering. Eye rounded, about first third in head. Mouth moderate, 

 oblique, terminal. Jaws about equal. ]\Iaxillary to eye. Rakers 

 about 2 -f- 7 short stumps. L. 1. short, scarcely beyond middle of 

 pectoral. Dorsal origin about midway between front eye margin 

 and caudal base. Anal little behind dorsal base. Caudal emarginate, 

 lobes equal. Pectoral almost to ventral, latter inserted little before 

 dorsal, reaches vent. Color olive-brown, often with blackish spots, 

 and dusky dorsal line. Sides silvery between 2 black lateral bands, 

 upper straight from upper opercle angle to caudal, sometimes broken 

 up behind, and broader lower one curved down little to end in caudal 

 black spot. Belly silvery. Length 1|- inches. Kiskiminitas River. 



This fish is only found west of the Alleghanies. It reaches 3 inches 

 in length, and is a beautiful little minnow, the spring males having 

 the sides between the black bands, belly and bases of the vertical 

 fins scarlet, the other fins orange, and the body everywhere minutely 

 tuberculate. The females are plainly colored, and usually with little 

 if any red. It is said to be very hardy and therefore attractive in the 

 aquarium, as well as desirable bait for bass and yellow perch. It is 

 also said to occur in clear cold brooks formed about spring-heads, 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



be very active, and not very abundant anywhere. The above example, 

 obtained by Cope, is the only one I have from our limits. 

 Chrosomus erythrogaster eos (Cope). 



C. eos Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861, p. 523. Meshoppen Creek, 

 Susquehanna Co. 



Head 3f; depth 4f; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; P. i, 15?; V. i, 8; 

 scales 80? + 5?; 24? scales transversely from dorsal to middle of belly; 

 50? predorsal scales; head width 2 its length; head depth If; mandible 

 2f ; first branched dorsal ray If; anal ray If; upper caudal lobe 1-^; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; pectoral If; ventral 1^%; snout 

 4i in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3^; maxillary 3f ; inter- 

 orbital 3. 



Body elongate, compressed, edges convex, profiles apparent!)^ 

 about evenly fusiform, deepest midway in length. Caudal peduncle 

 compressed, least depth about 1^ its length. 



Head moderate, robust, compressed, above rather broadly convex, 

 lower profile more inclined convexly. Snout surface broadly convex, 

 length about f width. Eye large, circular, about first f in head. 

 Mouth well inclined, oblique, gape curved, closed mandible slightly 

 protruding. Maxillary narrow, mostly concealed by preorbital, 

 exposed end almost to eye. Mouth moderately small, jaw edges rather 

 blunt and not especially hard. Lips thin. Tongue thick, fleshy, 

 rounded, scarcely free. Nostrils together on snout above, about last 

 third its length, posterior larger, anterior with cutaneous rim. Inter- 

 orbital broad, slightly evenly convex. Preorbital width about f its 

 length, latter 1^ in eye, lower margin convex. Lower posterior pre- 

 opercle corner rather evenly convex. 



Gill-opening last f of head. Rakers reduced, short small fleshy 

 points. Filaments about j of eye. Pseud obranchiae little shorter 

 than filaments. Teeth 5-5, elongate, compressed, tips hooked, 

 grinding-surfaces narrow. 



Scales small, cycloid, in nearly even horizontal series, considerably 

 smaller along dorsal and ventral body edges. Scales on caudal base 

 little reduced. L. 1. incomplete, on flrst few scales, curving down little 

 below middle of side. Tubes simple, persisting to each scale edge. 



Dorsal origin about inidway between hind eye margin and caudal 

 base, first branched ray highest, last about f of first. Anal inserted 

 about midway between pectoral medianly and caudal base just behind 

 dorsal base, first branched ray highest, fin rounded like dorsal. Caudal 

 emarginate, pointed lobes about equal. Pectoral pointed, upper rays 

 longest, f to ventral. Ventral inserted little before dorsal origin or 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



about midway between front eye margin and caudal base, reaching 

 vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol faded dull or pale brownish, belly and below slightly 

 silvery-white. Faint trace of dark streak from eye to caudal base, 

 another from upper side of head back to upper caudal peduncle surface 

 hardly evident, fading out behind though possibly joining lower? 

 Fins all faded pale whitish. Iris leaden-white. 



Length about 2 inches (caudal slightly damaged). 



No. 22,116, A. N. S. P., cotype (type) of C. eos Cope. ]\reshoppen 

 Creek, Susquehanna Co. (Cope). 



Also Nos. 22, 117 and 22, 118, same data, shoTving: Head 3f; 

 depth 4f to 4f ?; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales 76 to 82 + 5; 26 scales 

 transversely; snout 3^ to 4 in head; eye 3 to 31- ; maxillar}^ 3^ to 3^; 

 interorbital 3^ to 3^; teeth 5-5; length If to l|f inches. 



This fish is only known to me from the above examples, though 

 Cope mentions 4, all of which were taken in September of 1861. Noth- 

 ing is known of the species, aside from Cope's short description. 

 Hybognathua nuchalis Agassiz. 



Recorded by Cope. Occurs west of the Alleghanies. I have no 

 examples. 



HybognathuB nuchalis argyritis (Girard). 



H. nuchalis Fowler, Ain. Nat., XLI, 1907, p. 8. Kiskiminitas R CNot of 



Ag.) 



Head 3| to 4^; depth 4 to 4^; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 6, i; scales 37 

 to 42 + 2; 7 scales above 1. 1.; 4 or 5 scales below 1. 1.; 23 predorsal 

 scales; snout 3^ to 3f in head; eye 2f to 3^; maxillary 3| to 3f ; 

 interorbital 2| to 3; teeth 4-4. Body moderately compressed, some- 

 what fusiform. Head rather short. Snout broadly convex. Eye 

 little elongate, rather large. Mouth rather wide. Maxillary to eye. 

 Preorbital broad, width f its length. Rakers 2 + 7? short weak 

 points. L. 1. median. Dorsal origin about midway between front 

 nostril and caudal base. Anal behind dorsal base. Caudal apparently 

 little emarginated. Pectoral about f to ventral, latter inserted trifle 

 before dorsal reaching f to vent. Color largely silvery. Length 1^ 

 to 2 inches. Four examples from the Kiskiminitas R. (Cope). 



This fish is closely related to H. nuchalis, with which I recently 

 confused it, but differs apparently in the much larger maxillary. 

 It occurs west of the Alleghanies and is said to attain a length of 4 

 inches. 



Hybognathus nuchalis regius (Girard). 



Head 4 to 4|; depth 3^ to 4f ; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i, rarely iii. 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



6, i; scales 34 to 40, usually 36 to 39 + usually 2, occasionally 

 3, rarely 1 ; 6 scales above 1. 1. ; usually 4 scales, occasionally 5, below 

 1. 1.; 14 to 18 predorsal scales; snout 3|- to 4 in head; eye 3 to 4; 

 maxillary 3|- to 4^; interorbital 2f to 3; teeth 4-4. Body compressed, 

 somewhat slender. Head short, blunt. Snout blunt, broad, convex. 

 Eye small. Mouth small. Maxillary not quite to eye. Preorbital 

 moderate, width about 2 its length. Rakers 4 + 7? short weak points, 

 tips sometimes bifurcate. L. 1. median. Dorsal origin little nearer 

 snout tip than caudal base. Caudal rather broad, forked, lobes pointed. 

 Pectoral about f to ventral, latter inserted about opposite dorsal origin 

 and f to anal. Color largely silvery, pale olive above. Fins pale. 

 Iris silvery. Length 2yV to 4f inches. Many examples from the 

 Delaware R. at Holmesburg (Philadelphia Co.), Bristol and Hulmeville 

 (Bucks Co.). 



This handsome fish is very abundant in the lower or tidal region of 

 the Delaware and its larger tributaries. I have not yet found it in the 

 Susquehanna. Though usually brilliant silvery-white in life, brassy- 

 tinted individuals are often met with. It attains a larger size than 

 any of the related forms, and is said to reach 9 inches in length. It 

 may be of some use as a pan fish, frequently varying the luck of perch 

 fishermen, as it readily takes the hook. It seems to prefer the still 

 tidal waters of our open rivers and creeks, and is frequently found in 

 shoals about sand bars, and in little bays or guts, frequently associated 

 with killies or other small fishes. The sexes are alike, and without 

 tubercles or brilliant variegated pigment. 

 Pimephales promelas Rafinesque. 



Head 3|; depth 3f; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales 42 + 2 (12 

 tubes forming 1. 1., then skipping 3 scales, then tube, then skipping 2 

 scales, and tube at caudal base); 9 scales above 1. 1.; 5 scales below 

 1. 1.; 23 predorsal scales; snout 3^ in head; eye 4; maxiUary 4f ; 

 interorbital 2^; teeth 4-4. Body deep, well compressed, rather short. 

 Head robust, convex. Snout broad. Eye circular. Mouth small, 

 low. Maxillary to front nostril, oblique. Rakers 4 + 11 short weak 

 points, some ends little bifurcated. Scales rather narrowly imbricated. 

 Dorsal origin midway between front eye margin and caudal base, 

 second simple ray detached from third. Anal little behind dorsal 

 base. Caudal emarginate, equal lobes rounded. Pectoral f to ven- 

 tral, latter httle before dorsal and reaching vent. Color olive-brown, 

 scale edges dusky. Head dusky-black, opercle edge creamy-brown. 

 Iris gray-white. Dorsal gray, second simple ray pale, others medianly 

 largely dusky-gray, anterior ones blackish. Caudal and pectoral 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



grayish, other fiiis whitish. Several large tubercles on muzzle. 

 Length 2y\ inches. One example from Port Allegany (McKean Co.) 

 on June 2d, 1906 (Keim and Fowler). 



The above is the only example I have secured from our limits. 

 Tliis fish prefers sluggish brooks or pools and varies greatly with 

 season, age or sex. The head is almost globular in adult males. It 

 is interesting in the aquarium. It feeds on green algse and mud, and 

 is sometimes met with in muddy pools. Only reaching a length of 

 3 inches it is of no use as a pan fish. Found west of the Alleghanies. 

 Pimephales notatus (Rafinesque). 



Head 3| to 4f ; depth 4 to 5; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 6, i; scales 37 to 

 45 + usually 2, seldom 3, rarely 1; usually 7 scales, sometimes 6, 

 above 1. 1.; usually 4 or 5 scales, rarely 3, below 1. 1.; 20 to 30 pre- 

 dorsal scales, usually 22 to 26; snout 3 to 3f in head; eye 2^ to 4^; 

 interorbital 2 to 3; teeth 4-4. Body somewhat elongate, moderately 

 compressed. Head robust, convex. Snout blunt, convex. Eye 

 circular. Mouth small, low. MaxiUary to hind nostril. Rakers 

 about 4 + 7 short weak points. Scales narrowly imbricated. L. 1. 

 complete in adult. Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal 

 base, second simple ray detached from third. Anal behind dorsal 

 base. Caudal forked, lobes rounded. Pectoral f to ventral, latter 

 inserted about opposite dorsal origin and reaching first branched 

 anal ray base. Color olivaceous. Head blackish, gill-opening edged 

 buff, in spring males, otherwise buff. Iris black and bronze. Pale 

 dusky lateral diffuse band. Dorsal brownish, edge whitish, base black- 

 ish. Caudal dull olive, other fins paler. Large tubercles on muzzle of 

 spring males. Length ly\ to 3yV inches. Many examples: from 

 the Kiskiminitas R. ; Cole Grove and Port Allegany (McKean Co.); 

 York Furnace (York Co.); Foxburg (Clarion Co.); Erie (Erie Co.). 



Closel}' resembling the preceding, especially when young, but dis- 

 tinguished by its more inferior mouth, rather more slender body, and 

 slightly protruding blunt snout. The 1; 1. is variable, though absent 

 in the young of both species it soon appears in the present. It is found 

 in most of our western streams, though extending into the Susquehanna 

 and thus farther east than the last. I have not found it in the Dela- 

 ware. It prefers quiet streams and pools, often when muddy, and 

 associates with other small fishes. It is variable in color, spring males 

 being strikingly colored, though otherwise both sexes are pale olive 

 with a dark blackish lateral band ending in a l)lack caudal spot. A 

 good bait minnoAV, as it is active and tenacious, reaching 4 inches in 

 length. 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Semotilus buUaris (Rafinesque). 



Squalius hyalope Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S64, p. 280. Cones- 

 toga Creek, Lancaster Co. 



Head 3f ; depth 4^; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales 44 + 3; 7 scales 

 above 1. 1.; 6 scales below 1. 1.; 20 predorsal scales; snout 83- in head; 

 €ye Sf; maxillary 3; interorbital 2|; pectoral 1|; ventral If; least 

 depth caudal peduncle 2^; teeth 2, 5-4, 2. Body little elongate, 

 compressed. Head large, rather conic, compressed. Snout convex, 

 length about I its width, slightly protruding. Eye little ellipsoid, high, 

 trifle anterior. Maxillary to eye. No barbel. Interorbital broad, nearly 

 flat. Rakers 3 + 5 short weak obsolete denticles. Scales striate, pre- 

 dorsal but little smaller. L. 1. complete, slightly decurved. Dorsal 

 inserted nearer caudal base than snout tip. Anal inserted about mid- 

 way between pectoral tip and caudal base. Pectoral about f to ventral, 

 latter inserted about opposite dorsal origin, reaches vent close before 

 anal. Color in alcohol dull brownish, sides and below paler to whitish 

 with silvery traces. Iris brassy. Length 3^ inches. No. 4,882, A. N. 

 S. P., cotype (type) of *S. hyalope Cope. Conestoga Creek, Lancaster Co. 

 (Stauffer). From Cope. Nos. 4,883 to 4,886, same data. 



Head 3^ to 4^^; depth 3f to 5; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales 40 to 

 49, usually 41 to 47 + 2 or 3; usually 8, occasionally 7, seldom 9, 

 scales above 1. 1.; usually 6 scales, frequently 5, rarely 4 or 7, below 

 1. 1.; usually 21 predorsal scales, frequently 20 or 22, often 19 or 23, 

 seldom 24, and rarely 18 or 25; snout 2f to 3| in head; eye 2f to 6^; 

 maxillary 2^ to 3^; teeth 2, 5-4, 2, occasionally 2, 4-4, 2, rarely 2, 

 5-5, 2 or 2, 5-3, 2 or 1, 5-4, 2. Body robust, compressed. Head 

 compressed, convex. Snout convex, about broad as long. Eye round; 

 high. Mouth large, nearly horizontal. Mandible included. Jaws 

 heavy. Maxillary nearly to eye, with short barbel above near end, 

 latter absent in most young. Rakers 3 + 4 short weak denticles. 

 Scales large, well exposed. Dorsal origin little nearer caudal base 

 than snout tip. Anal behind dorsal base. Caudal forked. Pectoral 

 about I to ventral, latter inserted little before dorsal, reaches about 

 I to anal. Color largely silvery-white below, bluish and olive on back. 

 Spring males brilliant vermilion on sides of head and body, lower 

 fins and dorsal base, iris orange and front of head tuberculate. Length 

 If to 15 inches. A very large series of all ages: from the Delaware 

 R. basin at Kennett Square, Willistown Barrens, Crum Creek 2 miles 

 east of White Horse, Ring's Run (Chester Co.); Markam, near Wawa, 

 Collar Brook (Delaware Co.); Holmesburg, Torresdale (Philadelphia 

 Co.); Cornwells, near Langhorne (Bucks Co.); Delaware Water Gap 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



(Monroe Co.); Dingmann's Ferry (Pike Co.): Susquehanna R. basin 

 in the Conestoga Creek (Lancaster Co.); Emporium (Cameron Co.). 



This is the largest and gamiest member of the family in our limits. 

 It occurs only east of the Alleghanies or in our Atlantic basin, seemingly 

 more abundant in the Delaware than in the Susquehanna. It is a 

 vigorous fish, reaching about 18 inches in length. It often occurs 

 about rapids and falls, from which it has earned the name of fall fish. 

 Tlie large ones occur in the rivers or other large bodies of water, though 

 small ones are mature when only a few inches long and found living 

 in small brooks. It is a very variable species, especially as to age, sex 

 or season. Small adults resemble the young of large adults, being 

 silvery with a dark lateral stripe, the latter fading out with age. It 

 is omnivorous, and is often abundant about mouths of sewers, with 

 suckers. It will take most bait, also the fly, and may be taken by 

 trolling. It is usually angled in the summer, though often bites well 

 in the fall. One often sees Thoreau quoted that ''the chub is a soft 

 fish and tastes hke brown paper salted," which is not altogether true, 

 as it is often a very acceptable pan fish and, perhaps not possessing 

 the qualities of flavor of some of our other fishes, is not always to be 

 compared to salted brown paper. It must be eaten when fresh and 

 is then very good. It is said to spawn in the spring in quiet shallow 

 places, accumulating large patches of gravel or pebbles, the so-called 

 "nests." 

 Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). 



Head 3^ to 4; depth 3f ? to 5i?; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i; A, 

 iii, 7, I, rarely iii, 8, i; scales 49 to 61, usually 50 to 58 + 2 to 4, 

 usually 3; 9 to 12 scales above 1. 1., usually 10, frequently 11, otherwise 

 rarely; 5 to 8 scales below 1. 1., usually 6, frequently 7, otherwise rarely; 

 27 to 38 predorsal scales, usually 30 to 34; snout 3 to 3|- in head; 

 eye 3^ to 7f ; maxillary 2| to 3^; teeth 2, 5-4, 2, occasionally 2, 4-4, 2, 

 rarely 2, 6-6, 2 or 2, 5-5, 2 or 2, 3, 2-5, 2 or 2, 5-3, 4, 5 or 2, 5, 3-4, 

 3, 2 or 3, 4-4, 2, Body robust forward, compressed. Head robust, 

 broad, obtusely conic, heavy. Snout broad, convex, length f its width. 

 Eye round, rather high. Mouth broad, rather large, little inclined. 

 Mandible included. Jaws heavy. Maxillary about to eye, with short 

 barbel above near end, latter absent in young. Rakers 2 + 6 short 

 weak points. Scales small, crowded and smaller anteriorly. Dorsal 

 origin about midway between front pupil margin and caudal base. 

 Anal behind dorsal base. Caudal forked. Pectoral about f to ventral, 

 latter inserted little before dorsal and reaching about f to anal. Color 

 dusky-oUve above. Dull diffuse band of same laterally, usually ending 

 34 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



in blackish spot at caudal base, especially in young. Below silvery- 

 white, rosy-red in spring males. Dusky bar behind opercle. Iris 

 orange and yellow. Black spot at dorsal base in front margined 

 orange-red. Dorsal and caudal pale olive, other fins with vermilion 

 in spring males. Several large tubercles on snout and front of spring 

 males. Length If to 8| inches. A very large series: from the Dela- 

 ware R. basin in the Schuylkill R. ; Cobb's Creek, Collar Brook, Faw- 

 kes Run, first brook above Whetstone Run (Delaware Co.); Phila- 

 delphia: Susquehanna R. basin at Emporium (Cameron Co.); Muncy 

 (Lycoming Co.); Octoraro Creek at Nottingham (Chester Co.); near 

 Ephrata, Denver and Swamp Bridge (Lancaster Co.): Genesee R. 

 basin at Gold and Raymonds (Potter Co.) : Youghiogheny R., Meadow 

 Run (Fayette Co.) : Kiskiminitas R. : Beaver R. : Allegheny R. basin 

 at Warren (Warren Co.); Port Allegany (McKean Co.). 



This chub is found everywhere in our limits more or less abundant!}-, 

 not only in the larger streams but very often in the small clear moun- 

 tain brooks, where it often associates with Rhinichthys atronasus. 

 It is very voracious, and will eagerly take a hook with most baits, or 

 even a fly. Reaching a length of about 10 inches, it is said to be a 

 fair pan fish. It is also used as bait. The young differ considerably 

 from the adult in the blackish lateral band. I have found this fish 

 especially abundant in cold rapid trout streams, such as those in the 

 upper Allegheny valley. It is said to spawn in the spring or early 

 summer, constructing the "nests" about riffles or coarse gravel bars. 



Leuciacus vandoisulus Valenciennes. 



Head 3f to 4; depth 3| to 4; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i; A. iii, 

 8, I, occasionally iii, 7, i; scales 44 to 52, usually about 48 + 2 or 3, 

 usually 2; usually 10 scales, seldom 9 or 11, above 1. 1.; usually 6 

 scales, frequently 5, below 1. 1. ; 21 to 28, usually about 24, predorsal 

 scales; snout 3| to 3|- in head; eye 2| to 3^; maxiflary 2 to 2J; teeth 

 2^ 5-4, 2. Body compressed, deep. Head compressed. Snout 

 convex. Eye round, high. Mouth large, well inclined, mandible 

 protruding. MaxiUary to pupil. Rakers 2 -h 5 short denticles. 

 Scales well exposed. L. 1. well decurved, complete. Dorsal origin 

 midway between front eye margin and caudal base. Anal inserted 

 below last dorsal ray. Caudal deeply forked, lobes pointed. Pec- 

 toral reaching little beyond ventral, latter inserted well before dorsal 

 origin and reaches anal. Color olivaceous above, each scale margined 

 dusky and sides finely punctate with dusky. Leaden streak from 

 snout and shoulder back opposite ventral, bounded below on trunk 

 by streak of bright orange-red. Below white. Dorsal and caudal 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



dull olivaceous, other fins pale. Iris brownish with golden ring. 

 Head above minutely tuberculate. Young nearly plain-colored and 

 females usually without tubercles. Length If to SfV inches. Many 

 examples from the Susquehanna R. basin in tributaries of the Octoraro 

 Creek and the head-waters of the North East Creek, North East R. 

 basin, near Nottingham (Chester Co.). 



This little minnow is found in small streams of clear water, usually 

 about pools, and often associated with other small fishes. It is said 

 to reach 5 inches in length. The males are very gaudy in spring dress, 

 which some attain when half grown. It occurs only in our Atlantic 

 basin and, though I found it in the lower Susquehanna valley, have not 

 yet met with it in the Delaware, where, however, it has been recorded 

 by Cope. 

 Leuoisous elongatus (Kirtland). 



Head 3^ to 4; depth 41 to 5^; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 8, i, seldom iii,. 

 7, I, rarely iii, 9, i ; scales 60 to 75, usually about 60 to 69 + usually 

 2, frequently 3, rarely 4; usually 13 scales, frequently 12, seldom 11,. 

 rarely 14, above 1. 1.; usually 7 scales, frequently 8, below 1. 1.; 25 to- 

 38, usually 28 to 35, predorsal scales; snout 3|- to 3f in head; eye 2f 

 to 41; maxillary 2yV to 2^ ; teeth 2, 5-4, 2, frequently 2, 4-4, 2. Body 

 compressed, elongate. Head compressed, rather pointed. Snout 

 convex. Eye round, high. Mouth large, well inclined, mandible pro- 

 truding. Maxillary trifle beyond pupil front. Rakers about 2 + 5 

 short points. Scales small, about uniform. L. 1. little decurved, 

 complete in adult, incomplete or absent in young. Dorsal origin 

 little nearer caudal base than snout tip. Anal httle behind dorsal 

 base. Caudal emarginate. Pectoral | to ventral, latter inserted 

 little before dorsal origin and fin f to anal. Color olivaceous above, 

 scales mottled darker. Lateral band of blackish, first half bright 

 red in spring males. Below silvery-white. Lower fins reddened in 

 spring males. Dark median dorsal streak. Iris silvery, dark lateral 

 band passing through. Length 1^ to 3f inches. Many examples 

 from the Allegheny R. basin at Cole Grove and Port Allegany (McKean 

 Co.). 



Resembles the preceding. Found only in the clear mountain streams 

 west of the Alleghanies, usually associated with other small fishes. 

 Said to reach 5 inches and be a good bait minnow. 

 Leuoisous margarita (Cope). 



Clinostomus margarita Cope, Trans. Am. Philos. Soc. Pliila., (2) XIII, 1869 

 p. 377, fig. (teeth), PI. 13, fig. 1. The Conestoga, near Lancaster. ' 



Head 4; depth 4*; D. evidently iii,? 7, i (damaged); A. iii, ? 7? 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [DeC, 



(damaged); P. i, 10?; scales about 58 to caudal base; 1. 1. formed 

 of about 35 distinct tubes anteriorly; 11 scales above 1. 1.; 7 scales 

 below 1. 1.; 31 predorsal scales; head width 1| its length; head depth 

 at occiput 1^; mandible about 2|-; dorsal base about 2; least depth 

 caudal peduncle 2^; snout 4 in head, measured from upper jaw tip; 

 eye 3^; interorbital 2f ; maxillary SyV- 



Body moderately elongate, well compressed, edges rounded, deepest 

 near dorsal origin and upper profile apparently more evenly convex 

 anteriorly than lower. Caudal compressed, rather deep, least depth 

 about If its length. 



Head moderately small, robust, compressed, little broad above and 

 becoming slightly constricted below. Profiles similarly inclined, 

 upper little more convex anteriorly than lower. Snout convex, 

 length about | its width. Eye circular, large, high, placed about first 

 Y in head. Mouth small, well inclined, gape nearly straight in profile. 

 Mandible protruding, rather shallowly convex, rami well elevated 

 inside mouth. Maxillary mostly concealed, robust, well inclined, end 

 past eye front, not quite to pupil. Jaw edges firm. Lips thin, evi- 

 dently little developed. Tongue rather thick, fleshy, not free. Nos- 

 trils lateral on snout above, near eye, anterior with cutaneous margin, 

 posterior larger, in crescent. Interorbital rather broadly convex. 

 Preorbital large, trapezoidal, width about f its length, latter about 

 1-J in eye. Other suborbitals narrow. Preopercle margin inclined 

 forward, angle rather broadly convex. 



Gill-opening about to middle of head. Rakers 2 + 4? short weak 

 points, about 4 in filaments, latter f of eye. Pseud obranchise rather 

 large. Teeth 2, 5-4, 2, hooked, slender, compressed, without evident 

 grinding surfaces. 



Scales rather small, adherent, mostly uniform, in series parallel 

 with 1. 1. Predorsal scales small, Httle crowded. Breast scales still 

 smaller. L. 1. apparently complete, first slightly decurved, ascending 

 median caudal peduncle side. Tubes simple, well exposed, though 

 posterior rather indistinct. 



Dorsal origin about midway between front eye margin and caudal 

 base, fin moderately high, first branched (damaged) rays longest. 

 Anal origin about opposite last dorsal ray base or about midway 

 between caudal base and depressed pectoral tip. Caudal damaged. 

 Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol above dull brownish generally, sides and below 

 pale or whitish with shining mercury tints. Sides uniform in color, 

 and sprinkled all over with minute brownish dots or specks. Fins 

 plain or pale brownish. Iris brassy. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



Length If inches (caudal nearly absent). 



No. 5,320, A. N. S. P., cotype of C. margarita Cope. A tributary 

 of the Conestoga, near Lancaster (Cope). 



Also No. 5,321, same data. Though this example is larger it is 

 broken in pieces and mostly macerated. As it agrees in having the 

 last few tubes in the scales of the 1. 1. discontinued before the caudal 

 base it was probably largely the basis of the original description. 



I only have the above material of Cope. He says it is bright crimson 

 below during midsummer and that it was found in a stream inhabited 

 by Rhinichthys and Semotilus. It has not yet been taken out of the 

 Susquehanna basin in our limits. 

 Abrainis crysoleucas (Mitchill). 



Head 3f-to4f ; depth 2^ to 4^; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i or iii, 8, i, 

 once abnormally iii, 7-4 ; A. usually iii, 12, i or iii, 13, i, occasionally 

 iii, 14, I, rarely iii, 10, i or 11, i, or iii, 15, i, once abnormally iii, 

 8-2; scales usually 40 to 45, mostly 41 to 43, often 38, 39 or 46, seldom 

 47, rarely 48 or 50 + usually 2 or 3, rarely 1 or 4; usually 11 scales, 

 often 10, frequently 12, rarely 9 or 13, above 1. 1.; usually 4 scales, 

 frequently 5, rarely 3, below 1. 1.; usually 15 scales, frequently 14 or 

 16, rarely 17, transversely from dorsal origin, in young; usually 23, 

 frequently 21 to 25, often 20, 27 or 28, seldom 29, and rarely 16, 17, 

 18, 19 or 30, predorsal scales; snout 3|- to 4^ in head; eye 2| to 4J; 

 maxillary 3 to 4f ; interorbital 2\ to' 3; teeth 5-5, occasionally 5-4, 

 rarely 4-5 or 7-5 or 6-5 or 5-5, 2 or 1, 4-4, 2, Body well compressed, 

 postventral trenchant. Head compressed, upper profile slightly 

 concave. Snout broadly convex, length + its width. Eye circular. 

 Mouth small, obhque, mandible scarcely protruding. Maxillary not 

 quite to eye. Rakers about 5 + 11 firm compressed points. Scales 

 narrowly imbricated. L. 1. greatly decurved, complete in adult, incom- 

 plete in young. Dorsal origin midway between hind eye margin and 

 caudal base. Anal trifle behind dorsal base. Caudal widely forked, 

 lobes pointed. Pectoral |- to ventral, latter inserted well before dorsal, 

 fin f to anal. Color bluish-olive above, whitish below. Sides often 

 with bright deep bluish or golden reflections. Dorsal and caudal like 

 back, lower fins yellowish- vermilion in spring males. Iris silvery, 

 liength If to 5^ inches. Very many examples: from the Delaware 

 R. basin at Kennett Square, Ring's Run and Willistown Barrens 

 (Chester Co.) ; Chadd's Ford, Hunter's Run, Collingdale (Delaware Co.); 

 Holmesburg, Bustleton (Philadelphia Co.); Cornwells, Hulmeville, 

 near Langhorne, Neshaminy Falls, Bristol, Emilie, Tullytown, Scott's 

 Creek, Yardley (Bucks Co.); Hatboro (Montgomery Co.); Dingman's 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Ferry (Pike Co.): Susquehanna R. basin, at York Furnace (York 

 Co.); Nottingham (Chester Co.); near Denver and Witmer's Mills 

 (Lancaster Co.); Lopez (Sullivan Co.): Lake Erie at Erie (Erie Co.). 

 This is one of our most abundant species. It occurs in all our waters 

 and is sometimes found in large schools of thousands of individuals 

 in the Delaware tide-water. It is especially characteristic of pools, 

 ponds, cut-offs, in shallow or weedy places, and in still water. It 

 readily takes the hook, and though sometimes reaching a foot in length 

 is not considered much of a game fish. As a pan fish it is fair. It is 

 not much in demand for bait as it is not very hardy, though its bright 

 color is an advantage as a lure. Variation is quite noticeable, and in 

 color often extremes of bluish and golden are found. It is very gre- 

 garious, and the large schools of shiners one so often sees along the 

 shores of our creeks and quiet streams are frequently made up of this 

 fish, though it often associates with other species. The young are quite 

 different in color from the adult, having a black lateral band, which 

 disappears after they have grown several inches. 



Ceratichthys vigilax Baird and Guard. 



Known to me only from Evermann and Bollman's record from the 

 Monongahela River. 



Notropis bifrenatus (Cope). 



Head 3^ to 4^; depth Sf to 5|; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i; A. iii, 

 6, I, rarely iii, 7, i; scales usually 33, frequently 32 or 34, often 30, 31 

 or 35, seldom 29 and rarely 36 + usually 2, often 3, seldom 1 ; usually 

 11 scales transversely from dorsal origin to ventral, frequently 12, 

 seldom 10, rarely 13; usually 6 scales above 1. 1., frequently 5; usually 

 4 scales below 1. 1., rarely 5; usually 12, frequently 13, often 11 and 14, 

 seldom 10, rarely 15, predorsal scales; snout 3|- to 4|- in head; eye 

 2^ to 3| ; maxillar}'- 3^ to 4|- ; interorbital 2 to 3 ; teeth 4-4, rarely 4-3-. 

 Body rather compact, caudal peduncle little constricted. Head mode- 

 rate. Muzzle obtuse. Eye circular, high. Mouth oblique. Jaws 

 even. Rakers 2 + 5 weak points. Scales well exposed. L. 1. incom- 

 plete, usually only of about 11 tubes anteriorly. Dorsal origin nearer 

 snout tip than caudal base. Anal just behind dorsal base. Caudal 

 long, forked, lobes rather pointed. Pectoral not to ventral. Ventral 

 inserted about opposite dorsal origin and reaching trifle beyond anal. 

 Color pale straw-brown, scales on back brown-edged. Shining black 

 band with bluish tinge, from snout to caudal base, including mandible 

 edge. Orange band above this on snout in spring males. Below 

 silvery. Fins pale. Length lyV to 2j\ inches. Many examples : from 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 531 



Ring's Run and Black Horse Rim (Chester Co.); CoUingdale (Delaware 

 Co.); Holmesburg and Torresdale (Philadelphia Co.); Hatboro (Mont- 

 gomery Co.) ; Cornwells, Hulmeville, Neshaminy Falls, Little Neshaminy 

 Creek,. Bristol, Emilie, near Langhorne, Scott's Creek (Bucks Co.): 

 Susquehanna R. at York Furnace (York Co.). 



This pretty little minnow may best be known from the other mem- 

 bers of the genus by its incomplete lateral line. It closely resembles 

 N. procne, but may be distinguished by this character. It is usually 

 found in clear and rather still water,- in schools of moderate size, and 

 associated with other small fishes, such as killies and roach. They 

 occur both in tide-water and above, in the small creeks and runs, and 

 I have found them in the open rivers, though along shore. The sexes 

 are colored alike, though during the spawning season, in May and June, 

 the gravid females are much deeper-bodied. The young do not 

 differ much from the adults. Altogether it is a weak little fish, but 

 quite attractive, and said to be of use as bait. I have met with it 

 only in the lower Delaware and Susquehanna basins. Cope's types 

 of this species (Hybopsis bifrenatus) seem to be lost. 

 Notropis deliciosus (Girard). 



Recorded from the Monongahela R. as N. d. stramineus by Evermann 

 and Bollman. I have not seen any examples. 



Notropis procne (Cope). 



Hyhognathus procne Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 283. The 

 Conestoga. 



Head 3f; depth 4|; D. iii, 6, i; A. iii, 6, i; P. i, 13; V. i, 7; 

 scales 32 + 2; 5 scales above 1. 1.; 4 scales below 1. 1.; 12 predorsal 

 scales; head width 1| its length; head depth at occiput 1|; snout 3|; 

 eye 2f ; maxillary 3^; interorbital 2|; dorsal base 1|; anal base 2^; 

 least depth caudal peduncle 2^; pectoral 1^; ventral If. 



Body elongate, well compressed, profiles similarly fusiform or upper 

 only slightly more convex, deepest at dorsal origin, edges convexly 

 round. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth about 2|- its length. 



Head moderate, robust, wider than trunk, profiles about similar. 

 Snout obtuse, convex, length f its width. Eye large, high, little longer 

 than deep, center near first f in head. Mouth moderate, iiiferiorly 

 terminal. Mandible slightly included, rather shaUowly depressed, 

 rami slightly elevated inside mouth. Lips thin. Premaxillaries 

 protractile down. Maxillary very slightly beyond front eye margin. 

 Jaw edges rather firm, trenchant. Tongue thick, fleshy, adnate. 

 Nostrils large, together, on snout above near eye, crescentic posterior 

 larger. Interorbital broad, flat. Preorbital width about If its length, 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC._. 



latter 1^ in eye. Infraorbital broadest of other narrow suborbitals. 

 Posterior preopercle margin nearly straight, but slightly inclined 

 forward. 



GUI-opening to hind pupil margin, isthmus width at this point 2^ 

 in eye. Rakers 2 + 4 short weak points, much shorter than filaments, 

 latter 2 in eye. Pseud obranchise large, less than filaments. Isthmus 

 rather broadly depressed. Teeth lost. 



Scales moderately large, series parallel with 1. 1., mostly uniform 

 except smaller ones on caudal base, with fine radiating striae. L. 1. 

 continuous, first decurved slightly, then about midway along caudal 

 peduncle side. Tubes simple, each about f exposed scale. 



Dorsal origin midway between caudal base and snout tip, fin gradu- 

 ated down from first branched ray (damaged) and longest? Caudal 

 (damaged) emarginate, lobes equal? Pectoral f to ventral, upper 

 rays longest. Ventral inserted little before dorsal origin, not quite to 

 vent. Vent close to anal. 



Color in alcohol faded mostly dull or pale brownish, not darker above. 

 Edges of back scales slightly darker than ground-color. Head above 

 brownish, below paler or translucent, sides washed silvery-white. 

 Entire side of body bright silvery-white with underlaid median lateral 

 streak from shoulder to caudal base medianly. From snout tip, back 

 over underlaid leaden streak, dull brown band, inconspicuous and 

 narrower than vertical eye. Iris pale silvery, leaden lateral streak 

 passing through. Fins pale or plain dull brownish. 



Length lyf inches (caudal damaged). 



No. 3,152, A. N. S. P., cotype (type) of H. procne Cope. Conestoga, 

 tributary of the Susquehanna (Stauffer). Also Nos. 3,153 to 3,162, 

 same data. 



Head 3^ to 4^; depth 3f to 5^; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i; A. iii, 

 6, I, rarely iii, 7, i or iii, 5, i; scales usually 33, frequently 32, often 

 34, occasionally 35, seldom 31, rarely 36 + usually 2, occasionally 

 3; usually 6 scales, occasionally 5, above 1. 1.; 4 scales below 1. 1.; 

 13 predorsal scales usually, often 12 or 14, seldom 15, rarely 16; 

 snout 3^ to 4 in head; eye 2f to 3^; maxillary 3 to 3|; interorbital 

 2^ to 3^; teeth 4-4, rarely 5-4. Body elongate, compressed, rather 

 slender, caudal peduncle long, constricted. Head moderate. Muzzle 

 short. Eye circular, little high. Mouth oblique. Jaws even. 

 Rakers 2 + 5 short weak points. Scales well exposed, L. 1. complete, 

 little decurved at first. Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and 

 caudal base. Anal inserted well behind dorsal base. Caudal long, 

 forked, lobes pointed. Pectoral f to ventral, latter inserted little 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



before dorsal origin, reaches vent. Color above pale brownish. Dark 

 lateral band overlaid with grayish. Median dark streak down back. 

 Sides and below silvered. Fins pale brownish. Iris silvery, crossed 

 by dark lateral band. Length 1|-? to 2|^ inches. Many examples, 

 including the above cotypes : from the North East Creek headwaters 

 near Nottingham (Chester Co.) : Susquehanna R. basin in the Pequea 

 Creek at Paradise and in the Cocalico Creek at Swamp Bridge, Witmer's 

 Mills and run near Blainsport (Lancaster Co.) : Delaware R. basin in 

 Darby Creek at Collingdale (Delaware Co.) ; Schuylkill R. ; Holmesburg 

 (Philadelphia Co.); Hulmeville, above Newtown, Neshaminy Falls 

 (Bucks Co.); Abrams (Montgomery Co.). 



This species is closely related to N. hijrenatus, differing in the com- 

 plete lateral line, even in young an inch long. It is found in clear 

 streams or creeks, not too rapid, and usually about gravel bars, where 

 it associates in shoals with other species. It prefers the more upland 

 streams, and I have not yet found it in tide-water. The adult is 

 a beautiful little fish, averaging about 2| inches in length. It is sub- 

 ject to some variation. Though hardly brilliant in color, it is hand- 

 some, in certain lights the dark lateral band gleaming violet, blue 

 or greenish. It probably spawns in late spring and early summer. 

 It is said to be excellent bait, and good in the aquarium. I have 

 met with it only in the Susquehanna and Delaware basins. 

 Notropis keimi sp. nov. Plate XXVII. 



N. cayuga Fowler, Am. Nat., XLI, 1906, p. 595. Megheny R. above Port 



Allegany, McKean Co. (Not of Meek.) Fowler, I.e., XLI, 1907, p. 10, 



copied. 



Head 3f; depth 4|; D, iii, 6, i; A. iii, 7, i; P. i, 11; V. i, 7; 

 scales 37 + about 3; 5 scales above 1. 1.; 3 scales below 1. 1.; 15 pre- 

 dorsal scales; head wddth 1| its length; head depth as occiput If; 

 snout 3i; eye 3f ; maxillary 3; mandible 2f ; interorbital 31; first 

 branched dorsal ray 1^; first branched anal ray If; least depth caudal 

 peduncle 3yV; lower caudal lobe trifle longer than head, about space 

 equal to pupil diameter; pectoral If; ventral 1^. 



Body elongate, slender, compressed, edges rather broadly convex, 

 profiles similarly tapering from greatest depth at dorsal origin. Caudal 

 peduncle slender, compressed, least depth 2| its length. 



Head rather large, elongate, compressed, rather flattened sides not 

 convergent below, upper profile little more inclined than lower. 

 Muzzle obtuse. Snout obtuse, surface and profile convex, length about 

 f its width. Eye large, close to upper profile, trifle before middle 

 head length, rather eUipsoid or trifle longer than deep. Mouth inferior, 




534 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



rather large, jaws about even. Maxillary large, rather exposed, to 

 front eye margin, scarcely beyond. Premaxillaries protractile. Man- 

 dible rather broad, depressed, rami well elevated inside mouth. Lips 

 rather firm, little fleshy, rather narrow. No barbel. Jaw edges tough, 

 rather firm, though not especially trenchant. Tongue small, thick, 

 fleshy, not free in mouth. Nostrils large, together, superolateral on 

 snout to upper front pupil margin, posterior exposed in crescent, much 

 larger. Interorbital broad, flattened, scarcely elevated convexly over 

 eye. Preorbital elongate, greatest width about f its length, latter 

 If in horizontal eye. Other suborbitals all narrow. Posterior pre- 

 opercle margin straight, slightly inclined posteriorly. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite posterior preopercle margin. 

 Rakers iii, 2-1-2 short weak blunt stumps, much shorter than fila- 

 ments. Latter about half of horizontal eye. Pseud obranchiae large, 

 little shorter than filaments. Isthmus broad, level, least width about 

 H in horizontal eye. Teeth 1, 4-4, 1, rather conic, hooked, with 

 grinding surfaces. 



Scales large, cycloid, disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 

 1. 1., rather broadly exposed or coloration producing vertical rhombs, 

 each with many very minute obsolete radiating strise, of about vmiform 

 size, and a few small ones crowded on caudal base. Small rounded 

 adnate scaly flap in ventral axil, about 3- of fin. I^. 1. continuous, 

 little decurved anteriorly, and ascending behind dorsal midway along 

 caudal peduncle side. Tubes simple, each well exposed, or after first 

 5 extending all way to each scale edge. 



Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base, graduated 

 down from highest or first branched ray, depressed fin about | to caudal 

 base. Anal origin inserted just after dorsal base, graduated down 

 from first branched or longest ray, fin base If its depressed length. 

 Caudal long, deeply forked, lobes rather long, pointed, lower much 

 longer. Pectoral rounded, uppermost rays longest, fin about y^^^ to 

 ventral. Latter inserted trifle before dorsal origin, reaches anal. 

 Vent close to anal. 



Color in alcohol faded but little from that described below, when 

 fresh. 



Color when fresh rather clear dull olivaceous-brown above, margin 

 of each scale dusky till low as 1. 1. at least, and producing a network 

 of diamonds or rhombs in appearance. Head dusky-brown above, and 

 this forming into a median dusky dorsal line. Side of body more or 

 less silvered. Lower surface of head and body mostly translucent 

 whitish. Iris bright silvery, slightly dusky above. Jaws pale or trans- 




1998.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



lucent, upper slightly brownish. Costal region silvery, merging into 

 plumbeous or grayish longitudinal streak along caudal peduncle side. 

 Each scale of 1. 1. with a number of duskj^-brown points along tubes. 

 Dorsal and caudal pale transparent grayish-dusky, other fins paler. 



Length 2y^g inches. 



Type, No. 31,126, A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Allegheny River 

 above (south of) Port Allegany, McKean County. August of 1904. 

 T. D. Keim and H. W. Fowler. 



Head 3f to 3|; depth 4|- to 5; D. usually iii, 6, i, rarely iii, 7, i; 

 A. usually iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i ; scales 33 to 37, usually about 33 + 

 2; scales above 1. 1. usually 6, rarely 5; scales below 1. 1. 4; predorsal 

 scales usually 16, sometimes 15; snout 3^ to 3f in head; eye 3 to 3yV; 

 maxillary 3yV to 3i; interorbital 2f to 2|; teeth 1, 4-4, 1. Length 

 ly| to l|f inches. Tributary of the Allegheny R. at Cole Grove, 

 McKean Co. July 23, 1899. S. P. G. Lindsay and H. W. Fowler. 

 Nos. 24,045 to 24,047, A. N. S. P., paratypes. 



This species seems to be most closely related to N. hudsonius, but 

 differs in the larger and more slender caudal peduncle, different 

 physiognomy, and coloration. It differs from A'', deliciosus and N. 

 boops in the same characters, besides others, such as the eye and fin 

 rays. It differs from N. ariommus, N. scabriceps, N. jejunus and allied 

 species, in the fewer pharyngeal teeth, and other characters in com- 

 bination, when the proper extent of variation is allowed. It may, 

 therefore, be considered a member of the subgenus Hudsonius. 



Only the type was obtained at Port Allegany. At the type locality 

 the stream was of clear cold water, flowing rather rapidly over a shal- 

 low place of considerable extent, and with a bottom of small stones 

 and pebbles. The fish was rather shy, and though several others 

 were seen at the same time, the one secured was rather difficult to 

 capture. They all seemed to lurk about the banks, under large 

 stones, or in the deeper places, and were quite agile in their movements. 

 Coitus gracilis and Semotilus atromacidatus were found in the same 

 places, the latter especially abundant. 



At Cole Grove several small examples were taken some years pre- 

 viously. They were all found in pools, associated with Exoglossum 

 maxillingua and Leuciscus elongatus. In coloration they did not seem 

 to differ much from the type, their caudal lobes being about equal. 



(Named for my friend, Mr. Thomas D. Keim, who assisted me in 

 procuring the type, besides many interesting local collections of fishes 

 for the Academy.) 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Notropis hudsonius (Clinton). 



Head 4I-; depth 4|; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales 37 + 1; scales 

 above 1. 1. 5; scales below 1. 1. 5; predorsal scales 15; snout 3-^ in head; 

 eye 3|-; mterorbitar3|^; teeth 2, 4-4, 1? Body compressed. Head 

 small, compressed. Snout broadly convex, length | its width. Eye 

 high. Mouth large, well inclined. Maxillary to eye. Mandible 

 included. Interorbital depressed. Rakers 3 + 5 short firm points. 

 Scales well exposed. L. 1. almost straight, slightly decurved, complete. 

 Dorsal origin about midway between posterior nostril and caudal base. 

 Anal rather close behind dorsal base. Caudal forked, lobes pointed, 

 equal. Pectoral i to ventral, latter inserted little before dorsal origin, 

 ■f to anal. Color pale brownish above, below white. Broad silvery 

 band along side. Black spot at caudal base. Iris silvery-white. 

 Length 2f inches. Lake Erie at Erie (Erie Co.). 



This fish, closely related to the next, occurs only west of the Alle- 

 ghanies. It is characterized chiefly by the ever present jet-black 

 caudal spot. It is said to reach 10 inches in length, and not frequent 

 small streams. Desirable as a bait minnow. 

 Notropis hudsonius amarus (Girard). 



Head 3f to 4f ; depth 3| to 5; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i; A. iii, 

 7, I, rarely iii, 8, i ; scales usually 35 or 36, frequently 34 or 37, occa- 

 sionally 33, 38 or 39, rarely 31, 40 or 42 + usually 2, rarely 1 or 3; 

 usually 6 scales, seldom 5, rarely 7, above 1. 1.; usually 5 scales, seldom 

 4, rarely 6, below 1. 1. ; usually 15, frequently 14, often 16, seldom 13, 

 rarely 17 or 22, predorsal scales; snout 3 to 3|- in head; eye 2f to 3|; 

 maxillary 2f to 3|-; interorbital 2^ to 3yo-; teeth usually 1, 4-4, 1, 

 frequently 2, 4-4, 2 or 2, 4-4, 1 or 1, 4-4, 2, rarely 0, 4-4, 1 or 2, 4-4, 

 or 2, 4-3, or 1, 4-4, or 0, 4-4, 0. Bodj^ compressed, rather robust. 

 Head rather broad, compressed. Snout convex, length f its width. 

 Eye little elongate, rounded. Mouth somewhat oblique. Jaws about 

 even. Maxillary to hind nostril. Interorbital convex, middle flat- 

 tened. Rakers 2 + 5 short weak points. Scales well exposed. L. 1. 

 complete, little decurved, midway along caudal peduncle side. Dorsal 

 inserted little nearer snout tip than caudal base. Anal inserted little 

 behind dorsal base. Caudal forked, lobes pointed. Pectoral about 

 f to ventral, latter inserted slightly before or opposite dorsal origin, 

 reaches f to anal. Color pale olivaceous-brown largely. Scale edges 

 on back dusted darker. Broad silvery- white lateral band from eye 

 to caudal, margin above on trunk behind leaden. Caudal spot faint 

 or absent. Iris silvery-white. Length 2y'6- to 5i inches. Many 

 examples: from the Delaware R. basin, in Black Horse Run and 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 537 



first tributary below Mill Run, Ring's Rim (Chester Co.); Holmesburg, 

 Torresdale (Philadelphia Co.); Hulmeville, Neshaminy Falls, Bristol 

 (Bucks Co.); Dingman's Ferry (Pike Co.): Susquehanna R. basin, 

 Pequea Creek at Paradise, Cocalico Creek near Denver and at Wit- 

 mer's Mills (Lancaster Co.). 



A very abundant minnow in the lower Delaware and Susquehanna 

 basins. It is usually found in the larger creelcs and rivers, and readily 

 takes a hook. It is good as bait and though said to reach 8 inches in 

 length, it is seldom that examples are met with over 4 or 5 inches, 

 thus being too small as a rule to use as pan fish. I have never seen 

 any over 6 inches. It is distinguished from the preceding chiefly 

 by the very faint or pale caudal spot, though in the young it is always 

 somewhat in evidence. Young examples also have the lateral line 

 incomplete, only as a few tubes at the beginning of its course. It 

 usually occurs in schools and while more a feature of open rivers, both 

 at the head of tide and above, it does occur, contrary to the statements 

 of some writers, in our smaller streams or runs. It is also subject to 

 considerable variation in structure, though the coloration remains 

 about the same throughout the season, there evidently being no gaudy 

 nuptial-dress. 



Notropis whipplii (Girard). 



Head 3f to 4^; depth 3f to 4f ; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 

 8, i; scales usually 38, sometimes 36, 37 or 39, rarely 35 + usually 2, 

 frequently 3; usually 7 scales, frequently 6, above 1. 1.; usually 4 

 scales, frequently 5 below 1. 1. ; predorsal scales usually 17, frequently 

 16, rarely 15, 18 or 19; snout 3 to 3y in head; eye 3^ to 4§; maxillary 

 3 to 3f ; interorbital 2^ to 2|-; teeth 1, 4-4, 1. Body moderately 

 slender, compressed, profiles similar. Head pointed, compressed. 

 Snout convex, length f its width. Eye small, little longer than deep, 

 rather high. Maxillary not quite to eye. Mouth moderate, inclined. 

 Mandible included. Interorbital broadly convex. Rakers 3 + 8, 

 slender, pointed, short. Scales narrowly imbricated. L. 1. complete, 

 decurved, little low along caudal peduncle side. Dorsal origin trifle 

 nearer front nostril than caudal base. Anal origin slightly behind 

 dorsal base. Caudal well forked, slender lobes pointed, equal. Pec- 

 toral about f to ventral, latter inserted well before dorsal, reaches 

 vent. Color olivaceous on back, each scale dusky-edged. Iris silvery- 

 white. Sides bluish silvery-white, below white. Satin-white ends 

 to fins of spring males. Black spot on dorsal behind middle 

 above, equals eye, variable, less conspicuous in female and young. 

 Front and head minutely tuberculate in spring males. Length 2f 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [DeC, 



to 3^ inches. Many examples, from Kiskiminitas and Youghiogheny 

 Rivers, and Erie (Erie Co.). 



Found in the clear waters of the Ohio valley and Lake Erie. It is 

 a beautiful little fish, reaching 4 inches in length. At all times it is 

 largely bluish-silvery in general color. A good bait minnow. It 

 greatly resembles its eastern relative. 

 Notropis whipplii analostanus (Girard). 



Head 3^ to ^; depth 3^ to 4|; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 8, i, 

 occasionally iii, 7, i, seldom iii, 9, i, rarely iii, 6, i; scales usually 

 34, frequently 32 or 33, often 35, 31 or 30, occasionally 36, seldom 

 37 or 39, rarely 38, 28 or 27 + usually 2, often 3; usually 6 scales, 

 seldom 5 or 7, above 1. 1. ; usually 4 scales, rarely 5, below 1. 1. ; pre- 

 dorsal scales usually 14 or 15, frequently 13 or 16, seldom 17, rarely 

 12 or 11 ; snout 3 to 4 in head; eye 2^ to 4^; maxillary 2f to 4^; inter- 

 orbital 2-J- to 3; teeth 1, 4-4, 1. Body moderately slender, usually 

 rather deep in adult males, compressed, profiles similar. Head 

 pointed, compressed. Snout conic, about long as "wdde. Eye small, 

 little longer than deep, rather high. Mouth moderate, inclined. 

 Mandible included. Interorbital broadly convex. Rakers 2 + 7 

 short points. Scales narrowly imbricated. L. 1. complete, decurved, 

 low along caudal peduncle side. Dorsal origin midway between eye 

 front and caudal base. Anal inserted just behind dorsal base. Caudal 

 forked, lobes equal. Pectoral ^ to ventral, latter inserted trifle before 

 dorsal origin, fin reaches anal. Color olivaceous on back, scale edges 

 dusky. Iris silver-white. Sides bluish-white, below white, all silvery. 

 Fins in spring males with satin-white borders. Black dorsal spot 

 behind middle of fin above equals eye, variable, less evident in female 

 and young. Head above, muzzle and predorsal region finely tuber- 

 culate in spring males. Length 1|- to 3^ inches. A very large series : 

 from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square, Ring's Run (Chester 

 Co.); Brandywine Summit, Concordville, Markam, Colhngdale (Dela- 

 ware Co.); Barren Hill, Abrarns (Montgomery Co.); Holmesburg, 

 Torresdale (Philadelphia Co.); Cornwells, Hulmeville, Little Nesham- 

 iny Creek, Neshaminy Falls, near Langhorne, Bristol, Emilie (Bucks 

 Co.); Dingman's Ferry (Pike Co.): Suscpehanna R. basin at Para- 

 dise, Conestoga Creek, Trout and Akron Runs at Ephrata, Cocalico 

 Creek near Denver, Swamp Bridge, Witmer's Mills and run near 

 Blainsport (Lancaster Co.); York Furnace (York Co.). 



The silver fin is the most abundant of its genus in the Delaware, 

 contrary to the impression of some writers. It prefers clear water, 

 and usually the smaller streams and creeks, though often found in 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



tide-water if not brackisli. During the late spring and on through the 

 early summer the males assume high coloration. Brilliant pigment 

 of satin-white color is found about the ends of all their fins, the rays 

 of which become somewhat enlarged or swollen, and thus earning for 

 the fish the very appropriate name of silver fin. Tubercles of small 

 size also appear on the upper surface of the body, though disappearing 

 by late summer, along with the brilliant coloring. The females are 

 but rarely tuberculous, and never so brilliant as the males. The 

 young are not brilliantly colored, but are usually to be distinguished 

 by their reticulated scale pattern being made up of fiarrowly imbri- 

 cated scales, though the lateral line is complete. The silver fin some- 

 times collects in large shoals of possibly a thousand or more individuals, 

 and associates sometimes with other small fish. They are equally 

 active throughout the year, in certain localities, and may sometimes 

 be found under the ice. They will usually bite at a small worm or 

 other bait on a small minnow-hook, though of no use as food on account 

 of their small size, the largest I know of not exceeding 4 inches. They 

 are good bait and live well in the aquarium. Only found in the Dela- 

 ware and Susquehanna basins. Closely related to N. whipplii, and 

 differing in the deeper body and larger scales. 



Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). 



Head 3^ to 5; depth 3 to 4f ; D. usually iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i or 

 iii, 6, i; A. usually iii, 8, i, seldom iii, 9, i, rarely iii, 7, i; scales 

 usually about 30, frequently 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 and 36, often 37 to 40 

 and 27 to 29, rarely 25, 26, 41 or 44 + usually 3, frequently 2, rarely 4; 

 scales above 1. 1. usually 8, frequently 7, occasionally 9, rarely 6 or 7; 

 scales below 1. 1. usually 5, seldom 4 or 6, rarely 7; predorsal scales 

 usually 17 or 18, frequently 15, 16, 19 or 20, occasionally 14, sometimes 

 21 or 22, seldom 23 to 25, rarely 12, 13, 26 or 27; snout 2^ to 4 in head ; 

 eye 2^ to 4^; maxillary 2f to 4; interorbital 2^ to 3^; teeth 2, 4-4, 2 

 usually, rarely 2, 4-4, 1. Body compressed, rather deep, predorsal 

 swollen, form more elongate in young. Head compressed, heavy. 

 Muzzle obtuse. Snout convex, length about f its width. Eye small, 

 large in young, circular, rather high. Mouth moderate, little inclined. 

 Jaws about equal. Maxillary to eye in adult. Interorbital well 

 convex. Rakers 2 + 8 short firm points. Predorsal scales usually 

 small and crowxled and narrowly imbricated, or elongated vertically, 

 on costal region. L. 1. complete, well decurved, about midway along 

 caudal peduncle side. Dorsal origin about midway between front 

 nostril and caudal base. Anal origin trifle behind dorsal base. Caudal 

 forked. Pectoral about f to ventral. Ventral inserted little before 




540 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



dorsal, reaches anal. Color above dark bluish-olive, scale edges and 

 bases dusky. Sides and below silvery- white, tinged rosy in spring 

 males. Golden streak along upper side or back, most conspicuous 

 as seen from above when fish swims in the water. Dusky streak 

 behind gill-opening. Dorsal dusky, other fins plain, all edged broadly 

 bright vermihon in spring males. Red on fins pale or absent in females, 

 or young. Muzzle and head above in spring males tuberculous. 

 Iris silvery, golden in spring males. Length IfV to SfV inches. Very 

 many examples: from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square, 

 Ring's Run, Black Horse Run and first tributary below. Mill Run, 

 Willistown Barrens (Chester Co.); Collar Brook, Whetstone Run, 

 Langford's Run, Trout Run, Lewis's Run, Markam, Wawa (Delaware 

 Co.); Schuylkill R.; Abrams (Montgomery Co.); Holmesburg, Bustle- 

 ton, Torresdale (Philadelphia Co.); Cornwells, Hulmeville, Neshaminy 

 Falls, Little Neshaminy Creek, Newtown, Bristol, near Langhorne 

 (Buclcs Co.); Dingman's Ferry (Pike Co.): Susquehanna R. basin 

 at Emporium (Cameron Co.) ; Muncy (Lycoming Co.) ; Carlisle (Cum- 

 berland Co.); Paradise, near Denver, Swamp Bridge, Trout Run near 

 Ephrata (Lancaster Co.); Meshoppen (Elk Co.): Port Allegany and 

 Cole Grove (McKean Co.): Newcastle (Lawrence Co.): Kiskimi- 

 nitas R. 



Like the silver fin this is a most abundant species. It often asso- 

 ciates with this, its smaller relative, especially when young. The 

 breeding-dress of the spring male is very gorgeous, and is much more 

 brightly colored than that of the silver fin. The head above, and pre- 

 dorsal region, are much more coarsely tuberculate, and the former, 

 together with most of the fin-rays, becomes adipose-like or with a 

 swollen appearance. The red fin has an interesting habit of resorting 

 to clear shallows in the spawning season, which occurs about Phila- 

 delphia from late April to early summer. Schools of probably several 

 hundred of the brilliantly-colored males may be found, closely packed 

 together as a mass of crimson and purple, in these places. The females 

 did not seem to take part in these gatherings, or at least I was unable 

 to identify any in the several schools captured. From this it appears 

 that they precede the males to the spawning grounds. Sometimes 

 the males are herded in clear riffles, but usually where there is a sandy 

 or clear pebble bottom. The females, besides being paler in color, lack 

 the tubercles usually. The young are without any red, though gener- 

 ally with pale bluish or violet reflections on their sides, and only in 

 the very young is the lateral line incomplete. The largest examples 

 examined were 7^ inches long, and I doubt if they seldom exceed 8 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 541 



inches. The red fin is frequently found in rock pools about cascades, 

 and seems perfectly at home in turbulent foamy water. They are 

 frequently angled on a small hook, and though palatable as a pan fish 

 are usually too small to be of any value. As bait they are excellent. 

 It occurs usually in the smaller streams, being entirely distributed over 

 our region. I have not yet taken it in tide-water. 

 Notropis ohalybaeus (Cope).^ 



Head 3f to 4; depth 3^ to 4|; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 

 8, i; scales usually 30, frequently 31, often 29, 32, 33, 34, 35, rarely 

 28, 36 or 39 + usually 2, seldom 3, rarely 1; scales above 1. 1. usually 

 6, occasionally 7, rarely 5; scales below 1. 1. usually 4, seldom 3, rarely 

 5; predorsal scales usually 15, frequently 14, 16 or 17, rarely 13 or 18; 

 snout 3 to 4^ in head; eye 2^ to 3^; maxillary 2f to 3f ; interorbital 

 2y to 3; teeth 2, 4-4, 2. Body well compressed, heavy forward. 

 Caudal peduncle slender. Head compressed. Snout convex, length 

 I its width. Eye rounded, high. Mouth inclined, mandible slightly 

 protruding. Maxillary to eye. Interorbital broadly convex. Rakers 

 3 + 6 short slender points. Scales well exposed. Predorsal scales 

 slightly smaller. L. 1. complete in adults, incomplete in young. 

 Dorsal origin about midway between front nostril and caudal base. 

 Anal inserted little behind dorsal base. Caudal forked. Pectoral 

 I to ventral, latter inserted trifle before dorsal origin, fin reaches vent. 

 Color dark brown, scales dark-edged on back. Black lateral band from 

 snout to caudal base, purple, blue or green in some lights, and ending 

 in black caudal blotch. Just over this a light brownish streak and 

 within none of scales dark-edged like back above. Below whitish. 

 Length 1^ to 2y\ inches. Many examples from the Delaware R. basin 

 in Mill Creek at Bristol and the Neshaminy Creek at Neshaminy Falls 

 (Bucks Co.). 



This is a very brilliant little fish in full breeding-dress, the lower 

 surface of the body and pale area of brown adjoining the black lateral 

 band being rich orange. This is only the case with the male, which is 

 also covered with ininute tubercles rather sparsely over the upper 

 surface of the head, though much larger on preorbital and mandible. 

 All of predorsal scales edged rather coarsely with corrugations or 

 tubercles. The females lack the tubercles, and may easily be known 

 at this time by their swollen abdomens, due to being gravid Avdth ova. 

 They all associate with other small fishes in rather still or quiet water, 

 usually in large schools of several hundred individuals, and are largely 



' Cope includes N. scabriceps (Cope) from our limits, in western Pennsylvania, 

 hvpothetically 

 35 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



preyed on by the common pike (Esox americanus). When a school 

 is found in such a place the individuals are invariably all headed in 

 one direction, and moving as if by one impulse when disturbed. Some- 

 times, however, they flash a little of their silvery sides as they move 

 about. When greatly agitated they do not seem to swim far, but soon 

 form into another school further on. I have only met with them in the 

 lower Delaware valley. 



Notropis jejunus (Forbes). 



Recorded from the Monongahela by Evermann and BoUman. I 

 have no material. 

 Notropis atherinoides Rafinesque. 



Head 4^ to 4i; depth 5} to 5^; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 9, i, 

 occasionally iii, 10, i ; scales usually about 40, sometimes 38 or 34 + 

 iLsually 2, sometimes 3; scales above 1. 1. usually 6, occasionally 7; 

 scales below 1, 1. 4; predorsal scales IG to 19; snout 3|- to 3f in head; 

 eye 3; maxillary 2^^ to 3f ; interorbital 2^ to 3^; teeth 2, 4-4, 2. 

 Body compressed, elongate, slender. Head compressed, blunt. Snout 

 conic, length f its width. Eye rounded. Mouth rather small, inclined, 

 jaws about even. Maxillary not quite to eye. Interorbital evenly 

 convex. Rakers 2 + 7 rather weak points. Scales rather narrowly 

 imbricated along middle of side. L. 1. decurved, complete. Dorsal 

 origin about midway between eye center and caudal base. Anal origin 

 trifle behind dorsal base. Caudal forked. Pectoral f to ventral. 

 Ventral inserted well before dorsal. Color transparent greenish above. 

 Dark streak down back medianly. Sides bright silvery-white. Spring 

 males with rosy snout. Length 2| to 4 inches. Two examples from 

 the Beaver R. and 2 from Lake Erie at Erie (Erie Co.). 



This handsome species is said to reach 6 inches in length. It occurs 

 in rivers and lakes west of the Alleghanies, usually in schools, and in 

 still water. 



Notropis rubrifrons (Cope). 



Alburnus rubrifrons Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Plxila., 1865, p. 85. Kiski- 

 minitas River. 



Head 3|; depth 4f; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 8, i; P. i, 13?; V. i, 7; 

 scales 36 + 3; scales above 1. 1. 7; scales below 1. 1. 4; predorsal scales 

 18; head width 2^^ its length; head depth at occiput If; mandible 2\; 

 depressed dorsal length 1^; anal length If; least depth caudal peduncle 

 2f'o; pectoral IJ; ventral ly^^; snout 3| in head from upper jaw tip; 

 eye ^to', maxillary 2|; interorbital 3y^. 



Body elongate, compressed, deepest at ventral origin, profiles simi- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 543 



larly convex, edges rounded. Caudal peduncle compressed, rather 

 slender, least depth 2| its length. 



Head compressed, rather pointed, flattened sides rather convergent 

 below, profiles similar, lower little more evenly and convexly inclined. 

 Snout rather conic, surface convex, length about equals its width. 

 Eye rounded, little high, near first f in head. Mouth moderate, little 

 inclined, jaw edges rather firm. Premaxillaries protractile. Maxil- 

 lary slender, to eye front. Lips rather thin. Mandible depressed, 

 rami not elevated inside mouth. Tongue depressed, fleshy, not free. 

 Nostrils together on side of snout, crescentic posterior larger. Inter- 

 orbital broadly convex. Preorbital Httle ovoid, width about f its 

 length, latter 1^ in eye. Preorbital width about equals pupil. Posterior 

 preopercle margin nearly vertical. 



Gill-opening forward little before hind eye ma^-gin, not quite to pupil. 

 Rakers about 2^-6? short weak points, longest i of filaments, latter 

 If in eye. Pseudobranchiae large, little smaller than filaments. Isth- 

 mus width at front IJ in pupil. 



Scales in series parallel with 1.1., all mostly broadly exposed, smaller 

 on breast and pre ventral, each with several striae. Ventral axil with 

 pointed scaly flap, 5 in depressed fin. L. 1. complete, decurved at 

 greatest depth to lowest third. Tubes simple, each well over exposed 

 scale not quite to edge. 



Dorsal origin midway between hind eye margin and caudal base, 

 fin highest anteriorly, depressed 1^ to caudal base. Anal origin just 

 behind dorsal base, fin highest anteriorly, depressed 2 to caudal base. 

 Caudal damaged. Pectoral rather long, upper rays longest, fin | 

 to ventral. Ventral inserted little before dorsal, depressed f to anal. 

 Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol dull brownish generally, back but little darker than 

 rest of general color. Sides and below silvery to whitish. Fins pale 

 brownish. Iris silvery. 



Length 2\ inches (caudal damaged). 



No. 4,035, A, N. S. P., cotype (type) of A. ruhrifrons Cope. Kiski- 

 minitas River (Cope). 



Also Nos. 4,036 to 4,039, same data, in poor preservation, showing : 

 Head 4 to 4^; depth 4f to 4f; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 9, i or iii, 10, i; 

 scales 30 to 37 + 2; scales above 1. 1. 6 or 7; scales below 1. 1. 4; pre- 

 dorsal scales 17 to 20; snout 3yV to 3^- in head; eye 3^^ to 3|; maxil- 

 lary 24 to 2|; interorbital 2| to 3; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 2j\ to 2^ 

 inches. 



Found in clear streams west of the Alleghanies. In life this fish is 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



olivaceous in color, sides and lower surface silvery-white. Spring 

 males have the forehead, side of head and dorsal base rosj^-red, and the 

 snout tuberculous. Along base of anal row of dark specks, and dark 

 streak down middle of back. Said to reach 2f inches. 



Notropis photogenis (Cope). 



Squalius photogenis Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 280. 

 Youghiogheny River, Pennsylvania. 



Head 4; depth about 5 (emaciated); D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 8?; P. 

 i, 12?; V. i, 7; scales about 30? (squamation injured) + 2; scales 

 above 1. 1. 6; scales below 1. 1. 4; predorsal scales 16; head width ly^^ 

 its length; head depth at occiput If; snout 3^; eye 3|; maxillary 3^; 

 interorbital 3; first branched dorsal ray 1|; anal ray 1^; least depth 

 of caudal peduncle 3; upper caudal lobe 1; pectoral 1|; ventral If. 



Body elongated, compressed, edges apparently rounded, profiles 

 similar, deepest at dorsal origin. Caudal peduncle compressed, least 

 depth 2^ its length. 



Head compressed, flattened sides convergent below, profiles similar. 

 Snout convex, length f its width. Eye large, little longer than deep, 

 high, near first 7 in head. Mouth inclined, moderate, jaw edges firm. 

 Premaxillaries protractile. Maxillary slender, to eye front. Man- 

 dible depressed, rami well elevated inside mouth, symphysis slightly 

 protruding in front when mouth closes. Lips rather thin. Tongue 

 fiesh}^ depressed, rather far back. Nostrils together on snout side 

 above near eye, posterior larger. Interorbital broadly convex, Pre- 

 orbital width about | its length, latter H in eye. Postorbital width 

 equals pupil, other suborbitals narrow. 



Gill-opening forward to last third in head. Rakers 2 + 7 weak 

 points, longest about 4 in filaments, latter 2J in eye. Pseud obranchiae 

 little shorter than filaments. Isthmus width about 1|- in pupil, surface 

 flattened. Teeth 2, 4-4, 2, hooked, with slight grinding-surface. 



Scales about uniform, in longitudinal series parallel with 1. 1., little 

 smaller on breast. No evident axillary ventral scale. L. 1. continu- 

 ous, well decurved, ascending rather low along caudal peduncle side. 

 Tubes simple, well over scales, though not quite to margins. 



Dorsal origin midway between front nostril and caudal base, grad- 

 uated down from first branched ray or longest, depressed f to caudal 

 base. Anal origin trifle behind dorsal base, firet branched ray highest 

 depressed f to caudal base. Caudal well forked, pointed lobes about 

 equal. Pectoral f to ventral, upper rays longest, ^^entral inserted 

 little before dorsal, reaching anal? 



Color in alcohol plain pale brownish generally, of uniform tint. Iris 

 with slight silvery tinge. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



Length 1|- inches. 



No. 22,280, A. N. S. P., cotype (type) of S. photogenis Cope. 

 Youghiogheny River (Cope), Pa. 



Also No. 22,281, same data, showing: Head 3f ; depth 5; D. iii, 

 7, i; A. iii, 8?; scales 33? + 3?; scales above 1. 1. 6; scales below 

 1. 1. 4; predorsal scales 14?; snout 3^ in head; eye 2|; maxillary 3^; 

 interorbital 3; length 1-^ inches. Both examples in poor preservation. 



Found in streams west of the Alleghanies and said to reach 3 inches 

 in length. 

 Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott).' 



Head 3f to 4^; depth 4| to 5f ; D. usually iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i; 

 A. usually iii, 10, i, occasionally iii, 9, i, rarely iii, 11, i; scales 

 usually about 38, though ranging from 31 to 40 + usually 2, frequently 

 3, rarely 1; scales above 1. 1. usually 7, seldom 6 or 8; scales below 

 1. 1. 4; predoi-sal scales usually 18 to 21, seldom 17, 22, 23 or 24; snout 

 3 to 3* in head; eye 2f to 3^; maxillary 2f to 3^; interorbital 2f to 

 3yV; teeth 2, 4-4, 2. Body compressed, slender. Head compressed. 

 Snout convex, length |- its width. Eye rounded, rather high. Mouth 

 well inclined, moderate, mandible included evenly. Maxillary to eye. 

 Interorbital broadly convex. Rakers 2 + 6 short weak points. 

 Scales rather broadly exposed, crowded on predorsal region. L. 1. 

 complete, decurved about lowest third. Dorsal origin midway between 

 eye and caudal base, i^nal origin below last doreal ray base. Caudal 

 long, deepl}^ forked. Pectoral | to ventral. Ventral inserted little 

 before dorsal, fin f to anal. Color translucent olive on back, sides and 

 below silvery- white. Leaden streak along side sometimes, offsetting 

 color of back and belly, extending from eye to caudal, where little 

 darker. Iris silvery-white. Length 1| to 3|- inches. Many examples : 

 from the Delaware R. basin at Holmesburg (Philadelphia Co.) ; Nesham- 

 iny Falls, Hulmeville, Bristol, Emilie (Bucks Co.); Dingman's Ferry 

 (Pike Co.): Susquehanna R. basin at Paradise and Swamp Bridge 

 near Denver (Lancaster Co.). 



Found only in the lower Delaware and Susquehanna basins by me. 

 It was especially abundant in the Neshaminy Creek and also occurs 

 rather frequently in the Delaw^are tide-water. It is a beautiful bright 

 silvery little minnow, and is said to reach 3| inches. It seems to differ 

 from N. photogenis chiefly in the smaller predorsal scales. I have 

 usually found it associated with large schools of other minnows or 

 small fishes. 



' Cope records N. umhratilis ardens (Cope) from west of the Alleghanies, 

 evidently hypotheticalh^, as no definite locahty is mentioned. 




546 PKOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Ericymba buccata Cope.* 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1865, p. 88. Kiskiminitas River. 



Head 3^; depth 5; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 1, i; P. i, 14; V. i, 7; scales 

 34 + 2; scales above 1. 1. 5; scales below 1. 1. 4; predorsal scales 17; 

 head width 2 in its length; head depth at occiput If; snout 3; eye 

 3^; maxillary 4; interorbital Z\] first branched dorsal ray 1|-; anal ray 

 1|; least depth caudal peduncle 2|; upper caudal lobe trifle over 1; 

 pectoral 1^; ventral 2. 



Body compressed, elongate, slender, back not elevated though upper 

 profile little more convex than lower, deepest at dorsal origin, edges 

 mostly rounded and only upper and lower caudal peduncle surfaces 

 with traces of median low obsolete keel. Caudal peduncle rather long, 

 compressed, least depth about 2^ its length. 



Head elongate, moderately compressed, somewhat flattened sides 

 slightly convergent above with lower surface slightly broader than 

 upper, upper profile somewhat evenly convex, more inclined than 

 straight lower one. Snout convex, shghtly protruding, long as wide. 

 Eye large, ellipsoid, near upper profile, center trifle before head center. 

 Mouth small, inferior, scarcely inclined, obtuse edges not firm. Pre- 

 maxillaries protractile down in front. Maxillary rather concealed, 

 to front nostril. Lips fleshy. Mandible depressed, small, rami little 

 elevated inside mouth. Tongue thick, fleshy, depressed, rather far 

 back. Nostrils together, on snout side above, frenum last fourth in 

 snout, anterior circular, posterior crescentic. Interorbital broad, 

 shghtly evenly convex. Preorbital about H in eye, wudth about If. 

 Other suborbitals all much narrower, postorbitals scarcely evident. 

 Posterior margin of preopercle concave to curve posteriorly below. 

 External conspicuous mucous chambers along each side of head below 

 eye and along mandible surface below. Upper series about 7 cells and 

 mandibular series about 9, on each side of head. 



Gill-opening forward to upper hind preopercle margin, about last 

 third in head. Rakers 1+4 short firm robust processes, thick set, 

 about 4 in filaments, latter 1^ in eye. Pseudobranchise small, less 

 than half of filaments. Least isthmus width H in eye, lower surface 

 broadly depressed. Teeth 1, 4-4, 1, hooked strongly at tips, without 

 grinding surfaces but edges entire. 



Scales in series parallel Avith 1. 1., mostly uniform except little smaller 

 on breast and median dorsal and ventral body-edges, striae radiating, 

 all rather broadly exposed. Caudal base scales not smaller than 



* Cope includes Phenacobius teretulus Cope as probably occurring in western 

 Pennsylvania, thus purely hypothetical. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



others. Ventral axil without scaly flap, though broad scaly flap 

 between bases of fins, its hind edge free. L. 1. complete, only decurved 

 at first till midway along body side and caudal peduncle. Tubes 

 simple, wefl exposed over each scale nearly to edge. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and caudal base, 

 third simple ray highest though first branched subequal, fin 2^ to 

 caudal base. Anal origin trifle after dorsal base, third simple ray 

 longest though first branched subequal, fin 2 to caudal base. Caudal 

 deeply forked, lobes pointed, equal. Pectoral rather broad, upper rays 

 longest, y^-jj to ventral. Ventral inserted trifle before dorsal, broadly 

 expanded, reaches vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol dull brownish, lower surface scarcely paler, side 

 of head and streak down middle of side of trunk dull leaden-silvery. 

 Fins plain pale brownish. Iris dull brassy-brown. 



Length 2^^ inches. 



No. 6,003, A. N. S. P., cotype (type) of E. huccata Cope. Kiskimini- 

 tas River, western Pennsylvania (Cope). 



Also No. 6,004, same data, showing: Head 3^; depth 4f ; D. iii, 

 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales 31 +2; scales above 1. 1. 5; scales below 1. 1. 4; 

 predorsal scales 14; snout 3 in head; eye 3f ; maxillary 3y; interorbital 

 S}; third simple dorsal ray 1^; anal ray 1^; caudal 1; least depth 

 caudal peduncle 3; pectoral If; ventral 1|; teeth 1, 4-4, 1; length 

 If inches. 



Cope says "a narrow space from vent to opposite middle of pectorals 

 scaleless," which is not true in the above examples. 



This little fish is said to reach 5 inches in length, and occurs in clear 

 streams and ponds west of the Alleghanies. Its color is ohvaceous 

 above with silvery sides, and spring males are said to be without tuber- 

 cles or bright colors. There is a dark fine down the middle of the back 

 and a streak of dusky dots along the side. 



Rhinicllthys oataractse (Valenciennes). 



Head 3^ to 4; depth 4 to 5^; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 6, i; scales variable, 

 41 to 68, mostly from 53 to 66 + usually 3, occasionally 4, rarely 2; 

 scales above 1. 1. usuaUy 13, frequently 12 or 14, often 15, sometimes 

 11; scales below 1. 1. usually 11, frequently 10, often 9, seldom 12, 

 rarely 8; predorsal scales usually 27 to 31, occasionally 24 to 26 and 

 32 to 35, rarely 22, 36 or 37; snout 2^ to 3j\ in head; eye 3i to 5^; 

 maxiflary 2^ to 3^; interorbital 2f to 4^; teeth 2, 4-4, 2. Body 

 moderately slender, compressed, rather robast forward. Head elon- 

 gate, rather conic. Snout long as broad, convex, protruding beyond 

 mandible about 1 eye-diameter; Eye small in adult, large in young, 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



high, midway in head. Mouth small, broad. Maxillary to hind 

 nostril, small barbel at end. Slightly convex interorbital broad. 

 Rakers 2 + 5 robust firm short points. Scales smaller anteriorly 

 on trunk. L. 1. complete, slightly decurved, nearly midway. Dorsal 

 origin about midway between front nostril and caudal base. Anal 

 inserted little behind dorsal base. Caudal forked, lobes about equal. 

 Pectoral | to ventral, latter inserted little before dorsal, fin to vent. 

 Color olivaceous above, sometimes nearly blackish with mottled 

 appearance. No distinct dusky lateral shade in adult, more evident 

 in young. Lower surface whitish. Sometimes blackish opercle blotch. 

 Lips, cheeks and lower fins in spring males rosy-red. Iris silvery. 

 Spring males also with entire upper head, pectoral fin and trunk 

 finely tuberculate, jaws smooth. Length 1\^ to 3y\ inches. Many 

 examples from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square, Mendenliall 

 and Mill Run (Chester Co.), the Susquehanna R. basin at Paradise 

 (Lancaster Co.) and Meadow Run in the Youghiogheny R. basin near 

 Ohio Pyle (Fayette Co.). 



This dace occurs in clear swift streams, usually about rapids and 

 deep pools, in all the upland waters of the State. It is said to reach 5 

 inches in length and be good bait for bass, though rather difficult to 

 secure. I have usually found it associated with R. atronasus, though 

 it appears to be more active. 

 Rhinichthys atronasus (Mitchill). 



Head 3 to 4|; depth 3f to 5}; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i or iii, 8, i; 

 A. usually iii, 6, i, rarely iii, 7, i; scales usually 50 to 60, varying 

 frequently 43 to 49 and 61 to 64, rarely varying 39 to 42 and 65 to 67 + 

 usually 3, occasionally 2 or 4; scales above 1. 1. usually 12, frequently 

 11 or 13, seldom 10, rarely 14; scales below 1. 1. usually 8, frequently 9, 

 seldom 7 or 10, rarely 11; predorsal scales usually 30 to 33, frequently 

 28, 29 or 34 to 38, seldom 25 to 27, rarely 23 and 39 to 42; snout 2^ 

 to 3^ in head; eye 3 to 5^; maxillary 3 to 4; interorbital 2^ to 3f ; 

 teeth 2, 4-4, 2 usually, rarely 2, 5-4, 2 or 2, 4, 1-4, 2 or 2, 4-3, 2 or 1, 

 3-4, 2. Body compressed, moderately long. Head moderate, robust, 

 broad. Snout convex, depressed, length | its width. Eye small in 

 adult, large in young, circular, high, slightly anterior. Mouth small, 

 inferior, snout projecting about ^ of eye beyond mandible. Maxillary 

 little inchned, to front nostril, ending in short barbel. Interorbital 

 broadly depressed. Rakers 3 + 4 short firm points. Scales small, 

 well exposed. L. 1. complete in adult, absent in young. Dorsal origin 

 midway between hind eye margin and caudal base. Anal origin just 

 after dorsal base. Caudal forked, lobes rounded. Pectoral | to ven- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



tral, latter inserted little before dorsal origin, fin to anal. Color very 

 variable, usually olivaceous-brown above mottled with diLsky. Black 

 lateral band from snout to caudal, always pronounced in young. 

 Below white. Lower fins whitish to pale yellowish. In spring males 

 sometimes whole body blushed crimson or golden, lateral blackish 

 band vermilion or orange, also lower fins. Later in season dark lateral 

 band turns blackish. Spring males also with head above behind 

 nostrils minutely tuberculate. Length IJ to 3|- inches. Very many 

 examples : from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square, Mendenhall, 

 Black Horse Run, second tributary below latter, run near Stock Grange, 

 AVillistown Barrens (Chester Co.); Chadd's Ford, Wawa, Whetstone 

 Run, north branch of Langford's Run, Lewis's Run, Hunter's Run, 

 Collar Brook, Collingdale (Delaware Co.); Wissahickon Creek, Hol- 

 mesburg, Torresdale (Philadelphia Co.); Abrams, Hatboro (Mont- 

 gomery Co.); Cornwells, Neshaminy Falls, Little Neshaminy Creek, 

 Newtown, near Ijanghorne, Tullytown (Bucks Co.); Dingman's Ferry 

 (Pike Co.) : Susquehanna R. basin at Brooklyn (Potter Co.) ; Loyal- 

 sock Creek near Lopez (Sullivan Co.); Octoraro Creek at Nottingham 

 (Chester Co.) ; Paradise, Akron and Trout Runs near Ephrata, Witmer's 

 Mills and run near Blainsport (Lancaster Co.): Allegheny R., Port 

 Allegany and Cole Grove (McKean Co.); Warren (Warren Co.); 

 Youghiogheny R. and Meadow^ Run near Ohio Pyle (Fayette Co.); 

 Beaver R.®; Kiskiminitas R. : Genesee R. at Gold and Raymonds 

 (Potter Co.) : Potomac R. basin in Cove Creek (Fulton Co.). 



This beautiful little fish is very abundant in most all clear swift 

 cold brooks in the State, especially in the mountainous regions. It is 

 variable in the extreme, and many quite striking varieties may be 

 found, even in the same brook. The so-called brown-nosed dace, from 

 our western streams, does not appear to differ in having a paler color 

 and deeper body, so far as I have examined. In fact many western 

 examples are very dark or dusky. The snout is also variable. The 

 fish is often found greatly parasitized with tape-worms, the abdomen 

 then being greatly swollen. It is said to be good as bait. It spawns 

 in the late spring and early summer, though bright-colored examples 

 are found throughout the latter season. 



Hybopsis dissimilis (Kirtland).'*) 



Head 3| to 4^; depth 5 to 6f ; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 6, i; scales usually 

 about 47, varying 32 to 50 + 3; scales above 1. 1. usually 6, rarely 7; 



8 Recorded wrongly by me in Am. Nat., XLI, 1907, p. 11, as R. cataractce. 

 ^^ Bean records H. amblops (Rafin6sque) from the Ohio valley hypothetically. 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



scales below 1. 1. usually 5, rarely 6; predorsal scales usually 19 or 20, 

 rarely 17, 18, 21 or 23; snout 2^ to 3 in head; eye 2f to 3^; maxillary 

 S^ to 3 J; interorbital 3 to 4; teeth 4-4. Body elongate, slender, 

 compressed. Caudal peduncle long, slender. Head long, robust, 

 little deeper than broad. Snout convex, long as broad. Eye large, 

 high, midway in head. Mouth small, inferior, upper jaw protruding 

 slightly. Maxillary well short of eye, ending in short barbel. Inter- 

 orbital flattened. Rakers 2 + 5 short points. Scales smaller on pre- 

 dorsal, well exposed. L. 1. complete, nearly straight. Dorsal origin 

 midway between snout tip and caudal base. Anal origin little behind 

 depressed dorsal tip. Caudal forked. Pectoral 7^- to ventral, latter 

 inserted little behind dorsal origin, fin | to anal. Color olivaceous, 

 back rather mottled, below white. Sides bright silvery- white. Fins 

 pale, plain. Lateral bluish stripe around snout, overlaid with several 

 dusky spots. Length 2^*6- to 4 inches. Twelve examples from the 

 Youghiogheny R. 



Found in the channels of the larger streams, creeks and lakes, w^st 

 of the Alleghanies. It does not appear to enter the small brooks. 

 Said to reach 6 inches in length, and though a good biter most too 

 small as food. Taken largely for bait. 

 Hybopsis storerianus (Kirtland). 



Recorded by Evermann and Bollman from the Monongahela R. 



Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). 



Ceratichthys micropogon Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 277. 

 Conestoga Creek in Lancaster Countj". 



Head 3|; depth 4; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 6, i; scales 34 + 3; scales 

 above 1. 1. 6; scales below 1. 1. 5; predorsal scales 18; head width 2 its 

 length; head depth at occiput If; snout 3^; eye 3; maxillary 3; 

 interorbital 3|; first branched dorsal ray \\; anal ray 1^; least depth 

 caudal peduncle 2h; lower caudal lobe 1; pectoral If; ventral If. 

 Body moderately long, compressed, profiles similar, deepest at dorsal 

 origin. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth If its length. Head 

 compressed, profiles similarly convex, flattened sides not convergent 

 below. Snout convex, width f its length. Eye elongate, rounded, 

 high, center about first f in head. Mouth low, nearly horizontal, 

 large. Jaws even. Premaxillaries protractile down. Maxillary little 

 inclined, trifle beyond eye front, not quite to pupil. Lips thin, little 

 fleshy. Small barbel at lower maxillary corner distally. Jaw edges 

 rather thin, trenchant. Mandible heavy, convex, rami little elevated 

 inside mouth. Tongue thick, fleshy, adnate. Nostrils together, 

 posterior larger, near eye front. Interorbital broadlj^ depressed. Pre- 




1908. j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



orbital broad, width -| its length, latter 1^ in eye. Other suborbitals 

 narrow. Gill-opening last f in head, nearly to hind eye margin. 

 Rakers 2 + 5 points, about 3 in filaments, latter If in eye. Pseudo- 

 branchiae large, little less than filaments. Isthmus level, least widtli 

 nearly 2 in eye. Teeth 1?, 4-4, 1?, hooked, compressed, grinding 

 surfaces narrow. Scales rather large, crowded on predorsal and breast, 

 more exposed along sides medianly. Pointed scaly axillary ventral 

 flap 5 in fin. L. 1. complete, first decurved till about midway along 

 side. Tubes simple, over first f of exposed scales. Dorsal origin mid- 

 way between eye front and caudal base, first branched ray longest, fin 

 2 to caudal base. Anal origin little behind dorsal base, first branched 

 ray longest, fin 1-g- to caudal base. Caudal forked, lobes pointed, 

 tips (damaged) about equal. Pectoral pointed, upper rays longest, 

 fin I to ventral. Latter inserted about opposite dorsal origin, reaches 

 anal. Vent close before anal. Color in alcohol dull brownish, below 

 paler. Head and trunk below with pale silvery reflections. Iris pale 

 silvery. Fins pale brownish. Length 3j inches (caudal damaged). 

 No. 5,061, A. N. S. P., type of C. micropogon Cope. Conestoga Creek 

 in Lancaster County (Stauffer). 



Head 3^ to 4; depth 3f to 4f ; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 6, i usually, rarely 

 iii, 7, 1 ; scales usually 35 to 40, sometimes 33 or 34, rarely 32 or 41 + 

 usually 3, rarely 2; scales above 1. 1. usually 7, frequently 6; scales 

 .below 1. 1. usually 5, frequently 6, rarely 4; predorsal scales usually 

 16 to 19, occasionally 20, rarely 14 or 24; snout 2^^ to 3 in head; eye 

 3| to 7; maxiflary 2^ to 3^; interorbital 2^ to 3^; teeth usually 0, 4-4, 

 0, occasionally 1, 4-4, or 1, 4-4, 1, rarely 1, 4-4, 2. Body com- 

 pressed, robust. Head large, broadly rounded above. Snout convex, 

 blunt, rather long. Eye small, high, round, larger in young. Mouth 

 large, little inclined, mandible slightly shorter. Maxillary not quite 

 to eye, ending in barbel. Interorbital broadly convex. Rakers 2 + 5 

 short bony points. Scales well exposed. L. 1. complete, little decurved. 

 Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base. Anal 

 inserted behind dorsal base. Caudal emarginate, broad lobes rounded. 

 Pectoral H to ventral, latter inserted opposite dorsal origin, reaches 

 vent. Color olivaceous above with bluish tints. Sides with pale 

 greenish on white and silvery. Below white. Fins pale orange. 

 Spring males with head and belly blushed rosy, crimson spot on side 

 of former, high adipose-like crest on forehead, and snout with large 

 tubercles. Silvery iris, then orange and greenish. Young olivaceous 

 above, silvery below, and dusky band along side medianly. Length 

 lye ^^ 9| inches. Many examples: from the Susquehanna R. basin in 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [UeC, 



Elk Creek (Chester Co.); Conestoga Creek and near Denver (Lancaster 

 Co.); Emporium (Cameron Co.): Youghiogheny R. and Meadow 

 Rmi near Ohio Pyle (Fayette Co.); Beaver R.; Kiskiminitas R. ; 

 Newcastle (Lawrence Co.); Allegheny R. basin (Warren Co.). 



This beautiful fish occurs in all streams west of the Alleghanies, and 

 I have only met with it in the Susquehanna, in the Atlantic basin of 

 our limits. It is said to reach 10 inches in length and be a fair table 

 fish. Most frequently it is found in the larger creeks and rivers, sel- 

 dom occurring in small broolcs. It will take the hook readily and is a 

 good bait as it is hardy. It shows considerable variation, the young 

 being quite unlike the adult, and the latter also differing in the spawn- 

 ing season, which takes place in late spring and early summer. 



Exoglossum maxillingua (Le Sueur). 



Head 3f to 4^; depth 3| to 4^; D. usually iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i; 

 A. usually iii, 6, i, rarely iii, 7, i; scales usually about 48 to 51, 

 rarely 39, 43, 44, 45, 47, 52, 53, 54, 56, 57 + usually 3, frequently 2, 

 rarely 4; scales above 1. 1. usually 10, frequently 9, seldom 11, rarely 12; 

 scales below 1. 1. usually 6, frequently 7; predorsal scales usually 25 to 

 28, sometimes 29, rarely 30; snout 2f to 3^ in head; eye 2f to 4f ; 

 maxillary 2| to 3f ; interorbital 2yV to 3i; teeth usually 2, 4-4, 2, 

 rarely 1, 4-4, 2 or 0, 4-4, 2. Body compressed, robust. Llead com- 

 pressed, broad. Snout convex, width f its length. Eye small in 

 adult, large in young, high. Mouth small. Maxillary to eye. Upper 

 jaw projecting. Mandible small, dentaries closely wedged together, 

 incurved, producing trilobed appearance. Interorbital broadly flat- 

 tened. Rakers 1 + 3 small rounded tubercles. Scales crowded anter- 

 iorly on trunk. L. 1. continuous in adult, midway along side, incom- 

 plete or absent in young. Dorsal origin midway between front pupil 

 margin and caudal base. Anal inserted just behind dorsal base. 

 Caudal emarginate. Pectoral f to ventral, latter inserted trifle before 

 dorsal origin, reaches vent. Color olivaceous above, below whitish. 

 Diffuse dusky blotch at caudal base, most distinct in young. Fins 

 otherwise plain. Iris whitish. Length If to 4|- inches. Many 

 examples: from the Delaware R. basin at Mendenhall, Black Horse 

 Run and first tributary below, Mill Run (Chester Co.): Susquehanna 

 R. basin at York Furnace (York Co.); Paradise, near Denver and Wit- 

 mer's Mills (Lancaster Co.); Emporium (Cameron Co.): Allegheny 

 R. basin at Cole Grove (McKean Co.). 



This peculiar and strikingly characterized species occurs in all our 

 river basins, but seems to be most abundant in the Susquehanna. It 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 553 



isjhowever, by no means rare in the Delaware. It reaches a length 

 of 6 inches and though rather small is sometimes said to be used as -a 

 pan fish. It is usually to be found in clear running water with other 

 small fishes, and readily takes a hook. 



Plate XXVII — Notropis keimi Fowler. 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC., 



A NEW SPECIES OF CYMATOPLEURA. 



BY CHARLES S. BOYER. 



Since the publication of Greville's papers on the Diatomacese but 

 few new forms from the deposit of Barbadoes have been described 

 with the exception of those named by the late Prof. J. Brun in the 

 last number of Le Diatomisie. The deposit, however, is very rich, 

 and Mr. John A. Shulze, of Philadelphia, has not only prepared and 

 mounted the greater number of Greville's rare species, but has dis- 

 covered several new ones. Among these may be mentioned a Cyma- 

 topleura the diagnosis of which follows : 



Cymatopleura shulzei n. sp. 



Valve elliptical-lanceolate, with produced, subcapitate ends; border 

 with moniliform markings. Surface with ten quite definite undula- 

 tions; striae punctate in quincunx. L. of V. 170 />., puncta 14 in 10 /j. 



Barbadoes deposit. Rare. Coll. J. A. Shulze. 



I take pleasure in naming this species after Mr. John A. Shulze, 

 whose preparations of selected diatoms is unexcelled. Cymatopleura 

 is a well-defined genus, but limited in the number of species. Those 

 known as elUptica, solea, regula, hibernica, angulata, cochlea and the 

 three new ones of Pantocsek, kinkeri, gigantea and gracilis, resemble 

 each other in outline, more or less. Lewis' small form, C. marina, 

 differs chiefly in its lanceolate outline. The present species is dis- 

 tinguished by its produced ends and by the fact that it is the only one 

 of the genus thus far found in the miocene deposits (Plate XXVIII). 



I am indebted to Dr. T. S. Stewart for the photographs from which 

 the figures were taken. 



Explanation of Plate XXVTII. 



Fig. 1.— Valve view. X 650. 

 Fig. 2.— Same. X 350. 



Fig. 3. — Zonal view, somewhat inclined, showing moniliform markings and the 

 undulations. X 460. 




1908.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



NOTES ON POLINICES DIDYMA, WITH DESCRIPTION OF A NEW 

 AUSTRALIAN SPECIES. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY AND E. G. VANATTA. 



An Indo-Pacific group of species or forms of the Naticoid genua 

 Polinices is characterized by having a transverse sulcus dividing the 

 convex surface of the dark-brown umbiUcal callous lobe. Numerous 

 supposed species were based on shells of this character, but modern 

 authors have united all under one species, called Natica ampla by 

 Tryon (Manual of Conchology, VIII, 1886) and Natica didynia by 

 Watson and E. A. Smith {Challenger Report, XV, Gastropoda, 1886, 

 p. 450), and by Pritchard and Gatliff {Proc. Roy. Soc. Victoria, XII, 

 1900, p. 191). 



The names which have been apphed to the forms in question follow 

 in chronological order. 



1798. Albula didyma Bolten, Museum Boltenianum, p. 20. Based 



upon Nerita umhilicata livida Chemnitz, Systematisches Conchylien 



Cabinet, V, p. 246, pi. 186, figs. 1856-57 (Tranquebar). 

 1845. Natica papyracea "Busch," PhiUppi, Abbildungen und Be- 



schreibungen neuer oder wenig bekannter Conchylien, Vol. II 



(October), p. 45, pi. 2, fig. 12 (Hab. ?); Conchylien Cabinet, 



p. 87, pi. 13, fig. 4; p. 43, pi. 5, fig. 4. 

 1848. Natica ampla Philippi, Zeitschrift fiir Malakozoologie, p. 156, 



spec. 16 (Hab. ?); Conchylien Cabinet (Natica), p. 41, 



pi. 6, fig. 2. 

 1848. Natica hicolor Philippi, Zeitschrift fiir Malakozoologie, p. 156, 



species 17 (China Sea); Conchyhen Cabinet, p. 43, pi. 6, fig. 4. 

 1848. Natica vesicalis Philippi, Zeitschrift fiir Malakozoologie, p. 159 



(China); Conchyhen Cabinet, p. 40, pi. 6, fig. 1. 

 1846-1858. Natica lamarckii Recluz, in Chenu, Illustrations Conchy- 



liologiques. Vol, III, pi. 2, figs. 1-4. 

 1846-1858. Natica petiveriana Recluz, in Chenu, Illustrations Con- 



chyliologiques. Vol. Ill, pi. 2, figs. 5-9; Reeve, Conchologia 



Iconica, IX, 1855, pi. 5, fig. 17. 

 1846-1858. Natica intermedia Recluz, in Chenu, Illustrations Con- 



chyliologiques. Vol. Ill, pi. 2, fig. 10; pi. 3, figs. 1, 2, 3 (not of 



Philippi, 1836). 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



1846-1858. Natica chemnitzii Recluz, in Chenu, Illustrations Con- 

 chyliologiques, Vol. Ill, pi. 3, fig. 4. Reeve, Conchologia Icon- 

 ica, IX, 1855, pi. 2, fig. 7 (not of PfeifTer, 1840). 



1852. Natica incisa ''Diinker," Philippi, Conchylien Cabinet, Natica, 

 p. 81, pi. 12, fig. 8 (China). 



1852. Natica papyracea Busch, var. major Philippi, Conchylien Cabi- 

 net, p. 157, pi. 5, fig. 4. 



1855. Natica lamarckiana "Recluz," Reeve, Conchologia Iconica, 

 IX, pi. 2, fig. 6. 



1855. Natica prohlematica Reeve, Conchologia Iconica, IX, pi. 6, 

 fig. 21. 



1860. Natica rohusta Dunker, Malakozoologische Blatter, Vol. ^^I, 

 p. 232; Mollusca Japonica, 1861, pi. 2, fig. 24 (Deshima). 



1876. Natica tasmanica Tenison- Woods, Papers and Proceedings 

 and Report of the Royal Society of Tasmania, 1875 (1876), pp. 

 148, 149; 1877 (1878), p. 32; 1890 (1891), p. 134, species 173. 

 Proceedings Royal Society of Victoria, Vol. XII, 1900, p. 192. 

 Polinices tasmanica T. Woods, Tate and May, Proceedings Lin- 

 nean Society of New South Wales, Vol. XXVI, No. 103, 1901, p. 

 375, pi. 25, fig. 49. 



The study of a series of 53 specimens in 23 lots, from localities in 

 Japan, China, India, the East Indies and Australia, shows that sev- 

 eral species and races can be distinguished, as follows: 

 Polinices didyma Bolten. PL XXIX, fig. 9. 



Size rather large, up to 59 mm. diam. Coloration as in didyma 

 ampla Phil., from which it differe by the subtriangular shape of the 

 umbilical callus, which has a long adnate upper border and less pro- 

 jecting outer edge than P. didyma ampla Phil. 



Type locality, Tranquebar. Bolten's species was based on Chem- 

 nitz's figures. We have seen no examples from Tranquebar, but the 

 figures seem to show no tangible difference between didyma and the 

 common Japanese species described as N. rohusta Dkr., which we 

 consider a synonym, pending the comparison of topotypes. We have 

 rohusta from Tashima, Awaji (Hirase), and Hayama, near Kamakura, 

 Sagami (Miss Hartshorne). It seems to be confined to Japan and 

 India. 



Fig. 9 of plate XXIX represents a Japanese shell. 

 Polinices didyma ampla Phil. PL XXIX, fig. 8. 



A large form, ordinarily attaining the diameter of 63 mm. The 

 umbilicus is very ample, the excavation not half covered by the callus. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 557 



which projects as a free lobe, the middle or lower part projecting 

 beyond the adnate upper border; hence the general outhne of the callus 

 is semicircular. The lower lobe of the callus is ordinarily larger than 

 the upper. The inner part of the umbilical excavation is covered 

 with yellowish cuticle except in old or worn shells, as it is in all the 

 related forms; and while there may be two or three narrow radial 

 purplish streaks, the umbilicus is mainly white within. The exterior 

 is more or less deeply tinted with chestnut or livid brown above, 

 paler or white on the base; the early whorls are dull blue with a pale 

 subsutural band, apex dark red. The inside of the aperture is chestnut 

 above, white at the base. 



Most of the specimens before us are from China. One lot is labelled 

 Madras. The type locality was not known. Absolute synonyms of 

 this form are Natica lamarckii Recluz, and N. lamarckiana "Recluz," 

 Rve. 



Polinices didyma bicolor (Phil.). PI. XXIX, figs. 4, 5. 



A form of didyma which may perhaps be segregated, as a subspecies 

 was described as N. hicolor Philippi. It is smaller than P. didyma 

 ampla, the maximum diameter 35 to 39 mm. Umbilicus and umbilical 

 callus similar, but the lobes of the latter are often more convex, and 

 darker, very dark chestnut or chocolate colored. Upper surface 

 darker than in didyma or didyma ampla, generally bluish or somewhat 

 plum colored, with darker and paler streaks; base and interior of 

 umbilicus pale or pure white. Interior of the aperture very dark 

 chestnut or chocolate with a white area at the base. 



This form differs from didyma and didyma ampla chiefly by the 

 more strongly contrasted colors and smaller size. While not strongly 

 differentiated, it seems to be recognizable, and not uncommon. 



Type locality China Sea. Specimens are before us from "China," 

 Singapore and Queensland. 



Natica peiiveriana Recluz is identical with hicolor. 

 Polinices didyma vesicalis (Phil.). PI. XXIX, figs. 6. 7. 



Similar to P. didyma, but the base and interior of the umbilicus are 

 generally conspicuously streaked radially ivith hroum; upper surface 

 light brownish, as in didyma; there is a more or less definite white 

 band or paler area between the basal and the upper tinted tracts. 

 This band is usually more distinct inside. Upper adnate edge of the 

 callous lobe generally longer than in P. didyma ampla Phil., more as 

 in didyma, but the callus is smaller. The whole parietal wall and 

 adjacent root of the callous lobe are covered with a heavy pure white 

 callus, whereas in didyma ampla Phil, this white area is much less 

 36 




558 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



extended. General form is generally rather more elevated than 

 didyma ampla. The largest example in the Academy's collection has 

 a diameter of 47 mm. 



Type locality, China. Specimens from three sources before us are 

 from China, with one tray labelled Madras. 



Natica intermedia Reclus (not of Philippi, 1836), N. problematica 

 Reeve and N. incisa Dkr. are identical with vesiccdis. 



Folinices papyracea ("Busch," Philippi). 



We have not seen this form, which according to Philippi differs from 

 didyma by its depressed shape and very thin shell. It was known to 

 Phihppi by one specimen measuring about 18 x 20 mm. Natica 

 papyracea major Philippi is a larger form or specimen. 



Polinices aulacoglossa n. sp. PL XXIX, figs, l, 2, 3. 



Shell globose, the contour higher and less broad than in P. didyma 

 and its varieties, solid; light brown or slightly bluish, with an ill- 

 defined white band at the base. Umbilicus much smaller than in 

 P. didyma, very narrow within, half or more covered by the callus, 

 which is dark brown, divided by a submedian transverse sulcus, 

 subtriangular in shape, the upper margin adnate to the end, which pro- 

 jects farther than the free edge of the lobe. Parietal callus heavy, 

 white. Other characters substantially as in P. didyma. 

 Alt. 30^, diam. 31 mm. 



Type locahty, Altona Bay, Williamstown, near Melbourne, Vic- 

 toria. Types No. 94229 A. N. S P., collected by Mr. F. H. Baker. 



Some specimens received from Dr. J. C. Cox are larger, alt. 41 i, 

 diam. 42 mm., otherwise similar. This is apparently the form Hsted 

 by Messrs. Pritchard and Gatliff as Natica didyma Chemn. It is cer- 

 tainly distinct specifically from P. didyma, or any of its subspecies. 



Natica chemnitzii Recluz (not N. chemnitzii Pfr., 1840) seems to be 

 identical with this species, though if so it attains a larger size than 

 any examples we have seen. In any case the name is a homonym 

 and cannot stand. 



Natica tasmanica Tenison-Woods has been placed in the synonymy 

 of P. didyma by Messrs. Pritchard and Gatliff, but Tate and May 

 in their Census of Marine Mollusca of Tasmania (1901) have r tained 

 it distinct, a decision supported by the figure published by them. 

 It is a far smaller species than P. aulacoglossa, alt. 13, diam. 16 mm.; 

 and as Tenison-Woods mentions seeing a number of examples in 

 several collections, it is not likely that he was dealing with young 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



specimens. See also the remarks by Tenison-Woods'in Proceedings 

 of the Royal Society of Tasmania, 1877, p. 32 (1878). 



Naiica secunda Mab. et Rocheb., as figured and descril^ed by Ort- 

 mann/ is evidently closely related to P. aulacoglossa and its allies. It 

 is not surprising to find that the nearest relatives of A^. secunda are 

 austral forms. 



Explanation of Plate XXLX. 

 The figures are slightly reduced in size. 



Figs. 1, 2, 3—Polinices aulacoglossa Pils. and Van., n. sp. No. 94229 A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 4. 5—Polinices didyma bicolor Phil., No. 59200 A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 6' 7—Polinices didyma vesicalis Phil., No. 59190 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 8—Polinices didyma ampla Phil., No. 59198 A. N. S. P. * 



Fig. 9—Polinices didyma Bolt, (robusta Dkr.), No. 80440 A. N. S. P 



' Bep. Princeton Univ. Exped. to Patagonia, IV, p. 188, pi. 33, fig. 3a, b. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



ON THE TEETH OF HAWAIIAN SPECIES OF HELICINA. 



BY HENRY" A. PILSBRY AND C. MONTAGUE COOKE. 



The dentition has been examined in four Hawaiian species of Heli- 

 cina: H. haldwini Anc, H. uherta Gld., H. laciniosa Migh. and H. 

 rotelloidea Migh. The chief divergence is in the denticulation of the 

 fourth or major lateral tooth, which is armed with several large and 

 small denticles in some species, and with more numerous equal denti- 

 cles in others. 



Helicina baldwini. Fig. 2.— Helicina laciniosa. 



In all the species, the central tooth has a very short smooth cusp or 

 ledge at its summit. 



In H. baldwini (fig. 1) the denticle formula of the laterals is 6, 5, 4, 

 5, 0; that is, the innermost lateral tooth has 6 points or denticles on 

 its recurved cusp, the next tooth has 5, and so on. The inner 

 uncini have three or four rather large denticles. Lateral iv has very 

 vmequal conic denticles, two of them much larger than the others. 



H. uherta is like haldwini, except that the inner lateral has only 4 

 denticles. 



H. laciniosa (fig. 2) has the denticle formula 5, 6, 4, 7, 0. The 

 major lateral (iv) has an even series of subequal denticles. The 

 inner uncini have about 7 very minute, subequal denticles. 



The radula of H. rotelloidea resembles that of H. laciniosa, the 

 major lateral having 6 subequal denticles, but the inner uncini are more 

 like the H. haldwini type, having about 4 large denticles. What 

 systematic value attaches to the differences observed is uncertain until 

 many more species can be examined ; but it would seem that two groups 

 are indicated, characterized by the mode of denticulation of the cusp 

 of the fourth lateral tooth. 



The figures represent the central (c) and lateral teeth (I'-r), with a 

 single uncinus (w). 




1908.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



CLAUSILIIDJE OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE, XII. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Clausilias discovered by Mr. Y. Hirase, his correspondents and 

 assistants, during the last year or two are described below. Unusual 

 interest attaches to certain Euphsedusoid species (C. echo, C. nakadce) 

 showing stages in a degeneration series leading to Reinia. Further 

 minor phyla of the Zaptychoid series have also been found . 



Section EUPH^DUSA Boettger. 



I have elsewhere given reasons for including the group Reinia in 

 Euphcedusa. C. eastlakeana, C. echo and C. nakadce are connecting- 

 links between the typical members of these groups. 

 Clausilia eastlakeana vaga n. subsp. 



The shell is like C. eastlakeana Mlldff. The .clausiUum is slightly 

 wider, and distinctly more curved. 



Length 12.0, diam. 3.0 imn. ; whorls 7 



10.3, " 3.0 " " Qy^^^'^^o^^^^^- 



10.7, " 2.8 " " 7 \ ,, .... 



. 9 0^ u 2.7 '' " g^JAkusekijm^a. 



Nakanoshima, Osumi. Types No. 95691 A. N. S. P. from No. 1513 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection; also Akusekijima, Osumi. 



In general appearance this shell resembles C. variegata A. Ad., from 

 which it differs in having a clausilium and two palatal plicsG. It is 

 profusely streaked with buff- white on a corneous-brown ground, the 

 lighter tint usually predominating. The peristome is incomplete, the 

 aperture being shaped like that of Ena (Buliminus). The short 

 superior lamella curves toward the left termination of the lip, and is 

 separated from the thin, low spiral lamella. The inferior lamella 

 forms a high plate within the back. The subcolumeller lamella is very 

 deeply immersed. The principal plica is rather short and lateral, 

 anil there are two short palatal plicse, one above, the other near the 

 base. 



Clausilia eastlakeana Moellendorff was described from Fu-chow, on 

 the island Nan-tai, province Fu-dshien, in southern China. So far as 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



the shell is concerned, a comparison of specimens shows scarcely any 

 difference from the variety defined above from the northeastern 

 Ryukyu Islands, but the clausiliiuii is perceptibly different. It must 

 be admitted that such small differences as exist would not be thought 

 of much significance were it not for the wide geographic separation. 

 Clausilia echo n. sp. PI. XXX, fig. 7. 



The shell is very small, thin, yellow or corneous, sometimes with 

 a few yellow flecks; finely striate, becoming more coarsely so on the 

 back of the last whorl, and under a lens showing 

 faint spiral striae. Penultimate whorl widest, 

 those above tapering to the small, slightly obtuse 

 apex. Whorls 6^ to 7, convex, the last com- 

 pressed laterally, convex below. Aperture squar- 

 ish ovate. Peristome continuous, expanded and 

 reflexed, the upper margin notched over the 

 superior lamella; sinidus retracted. The superior 

 lamella is thin, marginal, separated from the 

 spiral lamella, which is short and lateral. The 

 inferior lamella is deeply placed, forming a promi- 

 nent fold deep in the throat, strongly gyrate within the last whorl, 

 penetrating as deep as the spiral lamella. The subcolumellar lamella 

 is very deeply immersed. The principal plica is very short, lateral. 

 There are small upper and lower palatal plicae. 

 Length 7 to 8, diam. 2 mm. 



The clausihum is rather broad, oval, tapering toward both ends, 

 and very strongly curved. 



Akusekijima, Osumi, Types No. 95688 A. N. S. P., from No. 1585 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Clausilia echo is a connecting link between Reinia and Ewphcedusa. 

 It resembles C. eastlakeana except in having the peristome complete, 

 the aperture being shaped much as in C. euholostoma Pils., but that 

 species has no superior lamella. C. echo is a less evolved form than 

 C. eastlakeana, in the same phylum. 

 Clausilia variegata (A. Adams). 



Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1901, p. 473, pi. 25, figs. 11, 12. 

 The type locality for this species is Tago, Izu (not in western Shikoku, 

 as stated in a former communication). Other localities are Tokyo 

 and its environs, Takasaki, Kozuke; Kashima, near Tanabe, Kii, 

 and Hirado, Hizen. Specimens have been received also from Chichi- 

 jima, Ogasawara. They belong to the typical form of the species, not 

 to the variety nesiotica. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



The presence of this species in the Bonin Islands may perhaps be 

 due to accidental introduction, with plants or otherwise. There has 

 doubtless been abundant opportunity and time for such introduction 

 since 1593, the date of first discovery of the Bonins, and occupation 

 by the Daimio Ogasawara Sadayori. 



Clausilia nakadae Pilsbry. PI. XXX, fig. lO. 



Clausilia variegata var. nakadai Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1902, p. 328. 



The shell is rimate, fusiform, thin, dark brown, uniform or marked 

 with buff on the upper whorls; upper half tapering and attenuate; 

 lower two whorls subequal in width. Surface glossy 

 finely and closely striate, the striation coarser on the 

 latter part of the last whorl. Whorls 6^, convex, the 

 last somewhat tapering downward, rather full and 

 convex basally. The aperture is ovate; peristome thin, 

 reflexed, the ends separated, joined across the parietal 

 wall by a rather thin, transparent callus. Superior 

 lamella very thin, subvertical, not continuous with the 

 lateral and dorsal spiral lamella. Inferior lamella promi- 

 nent, subhorizontal, ascending in a broad spiral within. 

 Subcolumellar lamella very deeply immersed. Prin- 

 cipal plica short, dorsal, penetrating to a lateral position. 

 There are no other palatal pUcae (Fig. 2). 



Length 7 to 7.3, diam. 2 mm. •^'^- ^• 



The clausihum is very strongly curved, so that the distal part is 

 at a right angle with the upper part. It is rather wide, parallel-sided, 

 the end obtuse, slightly angular. The columellar side is only very 

 slightly excised near the filament. 



Hachijo-jima, Izu. Types No. 83299, topotypes No. 96984 A. N. 

 S. P., from No. 942 of Mr. Hirase's collection, collected by Mr. Nakada. 

 This form was first described from two specimens, neither of which 

 contained the clausilium. On subsequent examination Mr. Hirase 

 discovered that it has a well-developed clausilium, and sent additional 

 examples, one of which is described above, and illustrated on the plate. 

 Compared with C. variegata A. Ad., this species is much smaller 

 and much more attenuate above; it is less variegated or uniform 

 brown; and finally it has a clausihum. C. echo, of Akusekijima, 

 Osumi, in the northeastern Ryukyu chain, is perhaps the most closely 

 related species, but it differs from C. nakadce by having the peristome 

 continued as a raised cord across the parietal margin, and by possess- 

 ing two small palatal plicae, whereas C. nakada has only the principal 

 plica. C. nakadcB is a perfect connecting link between C. eastlakeana 

 and echo and C. variegata. 




564 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Group of Clausilia aculus. 

 Clausilia tripleuroptyx n. sp. PI. XXXI, figs. 1, 2. 



The shell is fusiform, the lower three whorls rather large, those 

 above tapering to the attenuate summit; brown or chocolate colored, 

 moderately glossy, the last 3 or 4 whorls sharply, finely striate, the 



Fig. 3. — Clausilia tripleuroptyx, a, h, two views of clausilium ; c, last whorl and 

 aperture; d, e, diagrams of palatal armature of two individuals. 



striae a little coarser on the back of the last whorl. Whorls about 9, 

 convex, the last flattened laterally, tapering downward. The aper- 

 ture is squarish-ovate; peristome pale, well reflexed, continuous. 

 Superior lamella marginal, of moderate size, compressed, continuous 

 with the spiral lamella, penetrating to the middle of the ventral side. 

 The inferior lamella approaches the superior, ascends in a broad 

 spiral curve, and penetrates as deeply as the spiral lamella. The 

 subcolumellar lamella is deeply immersed. The principal plica is 

 rather short, lateral. There are usually three palatal pHcse below 

 the principal, the upper well developed, a very short plica below it. 

 There is no lunella, but a lower palatal plica about as long as the upper 

 is present (fig. 3d). 



Length 14.5, diam. 3.4 mm. 

 " 13.8, " 3.0 " 



The clausilium is strongly curved, oblique and subangular at the 

 apex, a little excised at the columellar side of the filament (fig. 3a, 6). 



Kuroshima, Satsuma. Types No. 95710 A. N. S. P., from No. 1589 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is related to C. digonoptyx Bttg., but diffei's by its palatal 

 plicae and the more curved, differently shaped clausilium. It differs 

 from C. subaculus by the better developed superior lamella and the 

 different palatal armature. C. aculus Bens, of China and Korea is 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 565 



the most closely related species, but it differs in sculpture ; it has not 

 the fine, thread-like striation of C. tripleuroptyx , being more glossy, 

 paler colored and less opaque. 



As in C. aculus, the palatal armature varies. In most examples 

 seen there are three palatal plicae below the principal plica, the second 

 either pUciform or punctiform (as in fig. Sd). Sometimes there are 

 six plicae, the 3d, 4th and 5th very small, scarcely visible inside by 

 reflected light (fig. 3e). 



Section STBREOPH^DUSA Boettger. 

 Clausilia japonica Crosse. 



The typical form of this species is found around Tokyo. The exact 

 locality of the types was not known, but the Tokyo shells agree so fully 

 with them that this place may be considered the type locality. 



The shells are coarsely rib-striate, the striae simple (not split), and 

 on the last whorl there are about five striae in one millimeter. The 

 spiral lamella penetrates inward to the middle of the ventral side; 

 the inferior lamella is much longer. There are two palatal plicae, 

 an upper and lower, below the principal, and in some examples there 

 is the weak rudiment of a lunella near the lower palatal plica, and a 

 second low nodule or plica just below the upper palatal plica. The 

 size of Tokyo specimens is rather variable. 



Length 29.0, diam. 6.5 mm. ; whorls IH. 

 25.5, " 6.5 " " 11." 



26.5, " 6.2 " '' 11. 



The forms I described as var. perstriata and var. perobscura are close 

 to typical japonica in sculpture. It is hard to decide what forms of 

 so variable a species call for special names. Besides those now recog- 

 nized, there seem to be several races, which may for the present remain 

 und escribed. 



The largest form of C. japonica I have seen was sent from Yakuenji, 

 Izumo, by Mr. Hirase (No. 1594). The shell is rich chestnut colored 

 when unworn, about as finely striate as C. j. nipponensis, and, like that, 

 it has upper and lower palatal plicae only, the lower one quite small. 

 The spiral lamella runs inward to the middle of the ventral side, the 

 inferior lamella being longer. Except in having no sutural plica, this 

 form agrees with C. hilgendorfi Martens. No other Stereophcedusa is 

 known to have a sutural plica, so that it is possible that its recorded 

 presence in C hilgendorfi may be an abnormal development, in which 

 case, this form is evidenth' C. hilgeyidorfi. Specimens from Yakuenji, 

 Izumo, measure: 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Length 42.5, diam. 9 mm. ; whorls 12^. 

 40.0, " 9 '' " 11. 



This Clausiha is surpassed in size only by certain forms of C. mar- 

 tensi. 

 Clausilia japonica kobensis (Smith). 



Clausilia kobensis E. A. Smith, Quart. Journ. of Conch., I, No. 8, p. 122 



(Feb., 1876). 

 Clausilia nipponensis Kobelt, Jahrb. D. M. Ges., Ill, 1876, p. 275, pi. 8, 



figs. 3, 4. 

 Clausilia loxospira Martens in coll., Kobelt, I.e., p. 277. 

 Clausilia japonica var. nipponensis Kob., Bttg. Jahrb. D. M. Ges., V, 1878, 

 p. 50 (ClausiUum). 



In western Hondo there is a rather weakly defined race described 

 as kobensis Smith and nipponensis Kobelt, these two names being 

 synonymous, and based on specimens from Kobe, Setsu. The striation 

 is noticeably finer than in typical C. japonica. The last whorl is fre- 

 quently much compressed, and the preceding whorl bulges, giving 

 a peculiar contour to the shell in dorsal view; but this feature is vari- 

 able. There are always two palatal plicae below the principal one, 

 an upper and a lower. There is often a whorl more than in typical 

 C. japonica. 

 Clausilia japonica vespertina n. subsp. PI. XXX, figs. 11. 12. 



The shell is glossy, chestnut colored, large, swollen in the lower half, 

 attenuated as usual above, finely striate, the striae often split or inter- 

 rupted near the suture; penultimate whorl inflated, the last whorl 

 compressed, tapering downward. The superior lamella is usually 

 small, short, not reaching to the margin of the peristome, and generally 

 separated from the spiral lamella. Palatal phcse two, upper and lower; 

 principal phca usually shorter than in japonica. 



Length 33.0, diam. 7.7 mm.; whorls IH ] „ , . . 

 '' 31.2, " 7.7 '' " lO^jTakuhisan. 



32.2, " 8.2 " " IOHt^i 1- 



" 33.0, " 8.8 " " 11 JTakazakiyama. 



Nishinoshima, Oki, at Takazakiyama (type loc.) and Takuhisan. 

 Types No. 95711 A. N. S P., from No. 1986 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This race differs from C. j. interplicata by the absence of inter- 

 mediate palatal plicae between the upper and lower; but it should 

 be noted that some individuals of interplicata from Takeya, Izumo, 

 also lack the intermediate plicae, and then scarcely differ from this 

 insular race from Oki. It is also related to var. kobensis. 

 Clausilia japonica ultima n. subsp. PI. XXX, figs. 8, 9. 



The shell is much more slender and lengthened than C. japonica, 

 chestnut colored, paler just below the suture, verj-- glossy, finely and 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 567 



regularly rib-striate, about four strise in one mm. on the last whorl, 

 the interstices of the striae minutely, finely striate transversely. Three 

 or four early whorls are of about equal diameter; the penultimate whorl 

 is largest, the last whorl compressed and tapering downward. The 

 spiral and inferior lamellae are very long, extending inward past the 

 front to the left side; other lamellae as in japonica; two palatal plicae, 

 an upper and a lower, below the principal plica. 



Length 29.3, diam. 5.5 mm.; whorls 13^. 

 27, " 5.2 " " 13. 



Nakamura, Oki. Types No. 95714 A. N. S. P., from No. 1566 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is a very distinct race, quite unlike any of the many forms of 

 C. japonica known from the main island and Shikoku. Like the 

 preceding subspecies it is probably confined to the Oki Islands. 



Clausilia Mckonis "Kobelt" Bttg. 



Clausilia hickonis Kobelt, Boettger, Jahrb. d. D. Malak. Ges., V, 1878, p. 



55, pi. 3, fig. 7; with var. binodifera Bttg., I.e., fig. 76 (interior of Nippon). 

 C. hickonis Kobelt, Fauna Japonica, p. 86. 

 Clausilia snbjaponica Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 679 (Jan. 28, 



1901) (Ibuki, Omi). 

 Clausilia fultoni subsp. davula von Moellendorff, Nachrbl. d. D. Malak. 



Ges., April, 1901, p. 41 (Ibuki, Omi). 



This fine Stercophcedusa has some resemblance to C. (Megalophce- 

 dusa.) vasta. It is now known from Hakusan, Kaga; Kurozu and 

 Tomisato, Kii; Ibuki, Omi; and on Shikoku from Nagaomura, Sanuki. 



The variety C. hickonis saucia Pils. differs chiefly by its much 

 coarser striation. It was described from Sodayama, Tosa, and smaller 

 examples have been taken at Naarimura, Tosa, No. 1010 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection, 83901 A. N. S. P. 



Clausilia jacobiana jacobiella n. subsp PI. XXXI, figs. 3, 4, 5, 6. 



The shell is more slender than C. jacobiana; and the last half of the 

 last whorl is less coarsely striate. There are short upper and lower 

 palatal plicae, but no lunella (pi. XXXI, figs. 3, 4, 5). 

 Length 14.8, diam. 3.0 mm. ; whorls 9^. 

 13.0, " 3.0 " " 9. 



12.7, " 2.9 " " 8+. 



Akusekijima, Osumi. Types No. 95682 A. N. S. P., from No. 1547 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Nakanoshima and Suwanosejima. 

 Specimens from Nakano-shima are a little larger : 

 Length 15.2, diam. 3.4 mm., whorls 9. 

 14.9, " 3.6 " 

 14.3, " 3.25 " ■ 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Shells from Suwanosejima are much smaller: 



Length 12, diam. 2.9 to 3 mm.; whorls 8^ (pi. XXXI, fig. 6). 



Clausilia nishinosMmana n. sp. PI. XXXI, fig. 7. 



A Stereophcedusa of the group of C. hrevior. The shell is fusiform, 

 tapering from the penultimate whorl, considerably attenuated near 

 the apex; dull dark brown; rather finely and 

 sharply striate except the earher whorls, which 

 are worn. Whorls 11^, moderately convex, the 

 second, third and fourth of about equal diameter, 

 the last compressed and tapering downward. Ap- 

 erture ovate, the sinulus a little retracted. Peris- 

 tome brown tinted, rather broadly reflexed, 

 recurved at the edge, thick. Superior lamella a 

 little oblique, marginal, continuous with the 

 spiral lamella, which is high and lamellar in the 

 middle, low toward both ends, and penetrates 

 inward to a point above the outer lip. The inferior 

 lamella forms a rather strong fold in the throat, and ascends in a broad 

 spiral curve in the back, where it is very wide. It penetrates as deeply 

 as the spiral lamella. The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the 

 lip edge. The principal plica is weak, short and lateral. There are 

 short upper and lower palatal plicse, but no lunella (fig. 4). 

 Length 18, diam. 3.9 mm. 



The clausilium is strongly curved, somewhat angular at the apex, 

 a little excised on the columellar side of the filament. It is similar to 

 the clausilium of C. hrevior} 



Nishinoshima, Oki. Types No. 95689 A. N. S. P., from No. 1576 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is closely related to C. hrevior, differing in the following 

 respects : There are but two palatal plicse below the principal one, 

 which is much shorter than in C. hrevior; the spire tapers for a longer 

 distance, and it is composed of more whorls. 



Some individuals lose the early whorls, closing the breach with a 

 convex plug, as in some Urocoptids. The number of whorls retained 

 may be reduced to six. Among some hundreds of C. hrevior seen from 

 six localities, none were similarly truncate. It is a rather unusual 

 condition in Japanese Clausiliidce. 



« See Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1901, pi. 38, figs. 52, 53. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



Section LUOHUPH^DUSA Pilsbry. 

 Clausilia degenerata Pils. 



Clausilia nakadai degenerata Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1904, p. 818, pi. 52, 

 fig. 12; pi. 53, fig. 22. 



The inadvertent use of Mr. Nakada's name twice in Clausilia makes 

 it necessary to modify the later apphcation as above. The former 

 siibspecific name will become the name of the species, while what was 

 formerly described as typical C. nakadai requires a new name, which, 

 being later, becomes subspecific. I am indebted to Mr. Hirase for 

 calling my attention to the duplication. 



The type of C. degenerata is No. 87593 A. N. S. P., from No. 1205 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 

 C. degenerata nakadiana n. n. 



Clausilia nakadai Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1904, p. 818, pi. 52, figs. 9, 10, 

 11; pi. 53, figs. 18, 19. Not C. variegata \av. nakadai Pils., Proc. A. N. S. 

 Phila., 1902, p. 328. 



The type of C. d. nakadiana is No. 87594 A. N. S. P., from No. 1205a 

 of Hirase's catalogue. 



Section FORMOSANA Bttg. 



This section has much affinity with Hemiph(Bdusa and the closely 

 related Megalophcedusa, having the same long and narrow type of 

 clausilium, which, however, is slightly thickened at the end. The 

 palatal structure is primitive — a series of well-developed, subequal 

 plicae. 



Three Formosan species known may be distinguished as follows : 



a. — Shell rather obesely fusiform, the diameter contained 3^ to 4J 



times in the length; whorls 9 to 11, the later ones closely and 



finely striate. 



b. — ^Whorls convex; later whorls with waved striae; southern 



Formosa. 



c. — Color pale yellowish or very pale brownish (pi. XXXII, 



figs. 4, 8, 9); C. formosensis A. Ad. 



c\ — Color dark reddish or purplish brown (pi. XXXII, figs. 



1, 2, 3), C.f. hotawana Pils. 



b^. — Wliorls flattened; striae fine, close and straight; dark colored y 

 northern Formosa (pi. XXXII, figs. 7, 10, 11), 



C. sioinhoei H. Ad. 

 a\ — Shell long and narrow, the diam. contained 5 or 6 times in the 

 length; whorls 11 to 14, the later ones flattened, with inter- 

 rupted striae (pi. XXXII, figs. 5, 6), . . C. taiwanica Pils. 

 Clausilia formosensis H. Ad. PI. XXXII, figs. 4, 8, 9. 



This species belongs to southern Formosa, while C. sioinhoei has been 

 found only in the northern end of the island. In color it varies from 




570 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



pale yellow to a pale reddish-brown tint. Schmacker and Boettger 

 have already described the close, peculiarly waved or " vermiculate" 

 striation of the later whorls. Figs. 8, 9 are from Hotawa examples ; 

 fig. 4 is a smaller, eroded form from Arikawa. 



C. formosensis hotawana subsp. nov. PI. XXXII, figs, l, 2, 3. 



The shell resembles C. formosensis in its rather obesely fusiform 

 shape, convex whorls, close and sharp wavy striation, and in the 

 characters of aperture and interior; but it differs by being dark reddish- 

 brown or purplish-brown in color, the apical whorls yellowish- white, 

 lip white, interior of the mouth purple-brown. Old examples usually 

 lose the apical whorls. 



Length 28.0, diam. 7.8 mm.; whorls 8^ (apex entire). 



" 29.7, " 7.5 " " 8 remaining (decollate). 



Hotawa, Formosa. Types No. 90032 A. N. S P., from No. 1397 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The locality Hotawa, given by us for C. swinhoei (Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 

 1905, p. 738), should be cancelled. The record was based upon the 

 specimens described above as C. /. hotawana. So far as we know, the 

 true C. swinhoei has not been found at that place, but only in the 

 extreme north of the island. 



Clausilia taiwanioa n. sp. PI. XXXII, figa. 5, 6. 



The shell is cylindric-turrite, very long and slender, dark purple- 

 brown, very glossy; sculpture of rather fine, low obhque striae, cut 



into long granules by spiral 

 impressions which cut the 

 strise only, and are noticeable 

 only on the later 3 or 4 whorls ; 

 striation not coarser on the 

 back of the last whorl. 

 Whorls 11 to 14, the earlier 

 ones convex, more or less 

 worn in adult shells; the last 

 3 or 4 whorls less convex, 

 last whorl compressed, nar- 

 rower than the preceding, 

 nearly straight-sided, rounded 

 basally. The aperture is 

 ovate, vertical, very dark in- 



Fig. 5. 



side; peristome pure white, broadly reflexed. Superior lamella high, 

 very obhque, marginal, continuous within with the spiral lamella, 

 which penetrates to a point above the upper angle of the aperture. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



Inferior lamella forming a moderately prominent fold on the columella, 

 straightened and obliquely ascending in the back, and as long within 

 as the superior lamella. Subcolumellar lamella barely emerging, 

 not extending upon the lip. Principal plica about a half whorl long. 

 Palatal plicae 6, the lower five nearly equal, lateral, showing as a 

 whitish streak outside (fig. 5). 



Length 36.2, diam. 6.0 mm.; length of aperture 7.5 mm. 

 31.0, " 5.8 " " " 7 " 



Clausilium narrow with nearly parallel sides, the lower end rounded 

 and somewhat thickened. 



Taiwan (Formosa), at Taito (or Hinan). Types No. 94756 A. N. S. 

 P. from No. 1492 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species has the dark color of C. swinhoei, and agrees with that in 

 the general structure of the aperture and internal plicae, but it differs 

 from that species by its long, narrow shape, greater number of whorls, 

 and the much more obsolete striation, that of C. swinhoei being com- 

 paratively close, fine and sharp, and not interrupted into long granules, 

 as it is in C. taiwanica. 



Section HEMIPH^DUSA Boettger. 



The type of this group is Clausilia pluviatilis Bens, of China, a 

 form closely related to species of the Japanese group of C. platyauchen. 

 An arrangement of the Japanese species was given in these Proceedings 

 for 1901, p. 623, and pp. 648-651. Subsequent studies have added 

 many species and caused the removal of some originally included in 

 HemiphcBclusa to form new sections — Nesiophcedusa, Luchuphcedusa 

 and Zaptyx. Moreover, it appears that the species with several palatal 

 plicae are not separable from those with an I-shaped lunella (cf. C. 

 tosana, etc.). A new classification of the species is therefore in order: 



Groups of Japanese Hemiphcedusce. 



a. — Lunella well developed, curving inward above, and below united 

 to the middle of a straight or arched lower palatal phca. Clau- 

 silium scarcely or not excised at the palatal side of the filament, 



Group of C. platyauchen. 



a*. — Clausilium deeply excised at the palatal side of the filament. A 



lower palatal plica present, or represented by an inward curve 



of the lower end of the lunella. 



h. — Lunella well developed, J-shaped, the lower palatal plica 



represented only by the inward curve of its lower end. 



Apical end of clausilium simple. 



c. — Principal plica very small or wanting; no upper palatal 



plica .Group of C. hyperolia. 




572 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



c^ — Principal plica well developed ; a short upper palatal plica, 

 or the lunella bent inward in its place, 



Group of C. awajiensis. 



b^. — Lunella, etc., as in the group of C. awajiensis, but there is a 



lower palatal nodule at its lower end; clausilium in apical 



view appearing deeply notched, . Group of C. aidacopoma. 



6^ — Lunella either I-shaped, or replaced by a series of palatal 



plicse, Group of C. validiuscula. 



fr. — A short, straight, or nodule-like, or rudimentary lunella, not 

 curving inward at the lower end, below one or two palatal 

 plicse; no lower palatal plica. Clausilium not excised at the 

 palatal side of the filament, . . . Group of C. sublunellata. 



Clausilia tosana Pils. PI. XXXI, figs. 14-20. 



Proc. A. N. S Phila., 1900, p. 680, pi. 25, figs. 22-25, 4L 

 This species is now before us from five localities, all on Shikoku 

 Island. It shows remarkable variation. All have the last whorl 



Fig. 6. — Clausilia tosana. a, typical form from Ushirohawa, Tosa; b, variety 

 from Shimohanyama, Tosa; c, variety from Irazuyama, Tosa. 



built forward, Cylindrella-like, with a furrow outside above the 

 principal plica, and the subcolumellar lamella is always very deeply 

 immersed. Internally the spiral and subcolumellar lamellse are 

 usually of equal length, reaching inward to the middle of the ventral 

 side, and the inferior lamella between them is shorter. 



1. The types from Ushirokawa, Tosa (pi. 31, figs. 16, 17), have 

 several palatal plicse standing upon a ridge (fig. 6a) and measure: 



Length 12.2, diam. 2.6 mm.; whorls 10^ 

 11.0, " 2.5 " " U. 



11.0. " 2.3 " " 9^. 



10.5, " 2.5 " 



2. A lot from Shimohanyama, Tosa (pi. 31, figs. 18, 19), also have 




1908-] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILA|)ELPHIA. 573 



several tubercular plicae on a distinct, curved ridge (fig. 6b), but are 

 larger: 



Length 15.0, diam. 3.5 mm.; whorls 9J. 

 12.3, " 3.0 " " 9i. 



3. Those from Irazuyama, Tosa (pi. 31, fig. 20), have a well developed 

 arcuate lunella between the upper and lower palatal plicae, but hardly- 

 joined to either (fig. 6c), specimens measure: 



Length 13.8, diam. 3 mm. ; whorls lOJ. 

 14.0, " 3 " " 10. 



4. A lot from Nametoko, lyo (pi. 31, figs. 14, 15), has a similar 

 curved lunella, and consists of specimens of two sizes, obviously from 

 two diverse stations. The larger shells are more or less worn, the 

 cuticle mainly lost, and measure 11.8 to 13.2 mm. long. The smaller 

 shells are glossy with the cuticle perfect, the lip is narrower, and the 

 subcolumellar lamella is not so long inside as the spiral. They measure : 



Length 9.4, diam. 2.2 mm. ; whorls 8f . 

 8.9, " 2.1 " " gi 



5. At Kotsuzan, Awa, the curved lunella is also perfect, as in (3) 

 and (4), The lip is better developed than in the smaller specimens 

 from Nametoko, lyo. Specimens measure: 



Length 10, diam. 2.3 mm. ; whorls 9^. 

 9, " 2.0 " " si 



These lots show that multifarious differentiation with consequent 

 formation of local races is in progress; but in the present condition 

 of our knowledge it would probably be inexpedient to recognize these 

 races by name. 



Clausilia pigra Pils. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1902, p. 368 (Kashima, Harima). 

 Specimens received from Nagami, Iwami and Yakuenji, Izumo, 

 differ slightly from the types. The aperture is built forward a little 

 less, and the lunella differs somewhat, being shaped more as in the 

 group of C. platyauchen, there being a ver}^ short lower palatal plica, 

 and the upper palatal plica is represented only by an inward bend 

 of the lunella, whereas in the types of pigra the upper plica stands 

 almost free of the lunella, and the whole structure is somewhat J- 

 shaped (rather than I-shaped, as originally described). 



Clausilia ikiensis tsushimana n. subsp. PI. XXXI, figs. 8, 9, 10. 



Shell somewhat larger and more robust than C. ikiensis, the subcol- 

 umellar lamella wholly immersed ; outer end of the lower palatal plica 

 joining the lunella. 

 37 




574 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Iziihara. 



Tsutsu. 



A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1550 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Tsutsu and Kashitake, Tsushima. 



The specimens vary remarkably in contour. Three examples from 

 Tsutsu are figured. 

 Clausilia hemileuca n. sp. PI. XXX, fig, 6; PI. XXXI, fig. ii. 



The shell is long and rather slender, the upper half tapering and 

 attenuate; glossy; finely and distinctly striate, the earliest whorls 

 worn; lower half of each whorl dark reddish-brown, upper half white, 

 the base of the last whorl and a streak over the lunella also white. 

 Whorls about 10^, moderately convex, the second, third and fourth 

 of about equal diameter, last whorl flattened laterally. Aperture 



Fig. 7, Clausilia hemileuca. 



ovate, the sinulus shghtly retracted. Peristome expanded and reflexed, 

 thick, white, notched over the superior lamella, which is compressed, 

 vertical and marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella, which is 

 rather high and penetrates inward to a point above the outer lip. 

 The inferior lamella recedes deeply, but in oblique view is visible as 

 a fold within the throat ; in the back it ascends obliquely, being slightly 

 sigmoid, and it is thickened below. It penetrates less deeply than the 

 superior lamella. The subcolumellar lamella is deeply immersed, 

 not visible in the mouth. The principal plica is about a half whorl 

 long, approaching the aperture. Upper palatal plica short and curved, 

 not connected with the oblique, curved lunella (fig. 76). 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



Length 18.5, di am. 3.7 mm. 

 17.0, " 3.8 " 



The clausiliiim (figs, la, c) is narrow and tapers rather strongly 

 toward the rounded apex, the palatal margin being decidedly convex. 

 It is excised on the columellar side of the filament, and is rather 

 strongly curved throughout. 



Oetakayama, Iwami. Types No. 95705 A. N. S. P., from No. 1600 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Only six specimens of this handsome Hemiphccdnsa were taken. 

 In coloration it resembles C. holotrema. No other Japanese Hemi- 

 phcedusa is similarly colored. The separation of the upper palatal plica 

 from the lunella and the shape of the clausilium are further distinguish- 

 ing features. 



Section HBMIZAPTYX Pilsbry. 

 Clausilia ptychocyma Pils. 



In specimens from Kuroshima the subcolumellar lamella emerges 

 on the lip but is rather weak, and the spiral and inferior lamellae are 

 longer than in the types, running inward to a point above the termi- 

 nation of the outer lip. They measure 11.2 to 12.5 mm. 

 Clausilia agna spicata n. subsp. PI. XXXI, figs. 12, 13. 



The shell resembles C. agna in its smooth surface and translucent 

 texture, and in having the subcolumellar lamella weakly emerging, or 

 at least visible in an oblique view in the mouth; but it differs by being 

 longer and more slender, similar in shape to C. purissima. It may be 

 either clear greenish-corneous (like C. purissima), chestnut brown, 

 or very pale brown. C. agna spicata differs from C. purissima by its 

 emerging subcolumellar lamella. The shell is also stronger when adult. 



Length 12.0, diam. 2.3 mm.; whorls 9^ ^ 

 12.2, " 2.7 " '' 9i I 



u jQ y (( 2 2 " " 8- Akuseki. 



9.7^ " 2.0 " " 8iJ 



11.0, " 2.3 " " 9 



q o u 2 3 " " 71 \ K^ichinoerabu. 



Akusekijima, Osumi. Types No. 95709 A. N. S. P., from No. 663e 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also taken at Kuchinoerabushima, Osumi. 

 No. 90023 A. N. S. P., from No. 663rf of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This race stands between C. agna, described from Yaku-shima, and 

 C. purissima, from Miyake-jima, Izu, and shows that these two species, 

 widely separated geographically, are in reality very closely related. 

 The Miyake-jima form has a very deeply immersed subcolumellar 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



lamella, but otherwise hardly differs from pale, long specimens of C. 

 a. spicata. 



In C. agna the lunella only weakly joins the upper palatal plica. 

 This is not well shown in the original figure. 



Section HETEROZAPTYX Pils. 

 Clausilia oxypomatioa Pils. 



Specimens received from Ogachi, Oshima, are smoother than the 

 type of this species, the striation rather indistinct except on the last 

 whorl, and the clausilium is quite perceptibly broader. 

 i^Length 12, diam. 2.8 mm.; whorls 9^. 

 11, " 2.6 " " 6.' 



Section ZAPTYX Pilsbry. 



In this section we group numerous closely related forms distributed 

 throughout the Ryukyu chain, from the Southwestern Group to 

 Kagoshima Bay. 



Key to Species of Zaptyx, s. str. 



a. — Upper palatal plica very long; spiral lamella reduced to a short 

 lamella in the region of the lunella. 

 b. — 10.5 to 12.5 mm. long, with 9^ to 10 whorls; striatulate. 



Ryukyu, C. dolichoptyx. 



b^. — 8.5 to 9.5 mm. long, with 8 to 8^ whorls ; last half whorl sharply 



and finely striate. Ryukyu, C. d. micra. 



t}. — Upper palatal plica moderate or short, much shorter than the 

 lunella. 

 h. — Subcolumellar lamella wholly immersed; whorls quite convex, 

 smoothish, but finely and sharply striate behind the lip. 

 c. — 9 to 10 mm. long, 2.2 to 2.3 wide. Okinoerabushima, 



C. sarissa. 

 c^. — 8 to 9 mm. long, 2 to 2.1 wide; last two whorls less convex. 



Nakanoshima, C. nakanoshimana. 



b^. — Subcolumellar lamella emerging; whorls less convex, 



c. — Upper palatal plica very short; inferior lamella not con- 

 tinuous within with the lamella inserta. 

 d. — Last 3 or 4 whorls finely and sharpty striate; superior 

 and spiral lamellae weakly continuous. Yaeyama, 



C. yaeyamensis. 

 d^. — Smoothish throughout, or only the last whorl striate; 

 superior and spiral lamellae widely separated. 

 e. — ^Smoothish, early whorls not attenuate, Satsuma, 



C, hirasei. 

 &. — Back of last whorl striate; spire attenuate above, 



Kikai, Tokuno, C. kikaiensis. 



c^. — Upper palatal plica moderate; inferior lamella continuous 

 with the lamella inserta, penetrating inward as far as the 

 spiral lamella; fulcrum and parallel lamella well devel- 

 oped . apex larger than the preceding species. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



d. — Shell smoothish, last whorl more or less striate. Ryu- 

 kyii, Yoronjima, C. hyperoptyx. 



d}. — Last 3 or 4 whorls sharply striate. Sezokojima, 

 Ryukyu C. h. sezokoensis. 



Clausilia nakanoshimana n. sp. PI. XXX, fig. 2. 



The shell is small and slender, the lower half cylindric, upper half 

 tapering slowly to the rather large and obtuse apex; pale brown, 

 somewhat transparent, thin, glossy, faintly striat- 

 ulate, becoming distinctly striate behind the 

 outer lip. Whorls 7^ to 7|, the earlier ones quite 

 convex, the last two much less so; last whorl 

 convex below but not saccate. The aperture is 

 broadly oval ; peristome white, reflexed and rather 

 thick, continuous. The superior lamella is mar- 

 ginal, subvertical, not continuous with the spiral 

 lamella. Spiral lamella is very low and thread- 

 like, and extends inward only slightly beyond the j jg §_ 

 lateral line. The inferior lamella recedes deeply, 

 being visible as a prominent fold in an oblique view in the aperture; 

 inside it ascends nearly vertically, is very broad and a little curved, 

 rather abruptly terminating above, not continued on the parietal wall, 

 but reappearing as a minute lamella near the inner end of the spiral 

 lamella. The subcolumellar lamella is rather deeply immersed. The 

 principal plica is dorsal and lateral. Upper palatal plica short, 

 connected to the oblique, nearly straight lunella. There are two 

 delicate sutural plicae, and a minute parallel lamella (fig. 8). 



Length 9, diam. 2.1 mm.; whorls 7f. 

 " 8, " 2.0 " " 7|. 



" 8, " 2.0 " " 7i 



The clausihum is narrow, rather long, rounded at the apex, rather 

 straight except near the filament where it bends abruptly. It is deeply 

 excised at the columellar side of the filament, and broadly dilated 

 at the palatal side. 



Nakanoshima, Osumi. Types No. 95687 A. N. S. P., from No. 1517 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is closely related to C. sarissa Pils. of Okinoerabu- 

 shima. It differs by the more slender shell with the last two whorls 

 less convex, and the clausilium a httle more slender and slightly twisted 

 near the apex. 

 Clausilia yaeyamensis Pils. 



Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 19G4, p. 831. 



Previously reported from Yaeyama, now sent from Yonakuni-jima 




578 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



the westernmost of the Sakishima or Southwestern Group of islands, 

 and the nearest one to Formosa. The specimens measure 8.5 to 

 9.7 mm. 



While very closely related to C. hyperoptyx sezokoensis of Sezokojima, 

 Kunchan (Loochoo), this form is separable by the inferior lamella 

 which is short inside, its inner end being separated as a lamella inserta, 

 while in C. hyperoptyx the inferior lamella is continued within parallel 

 to the spiral lamella. This rather minute distinction is constant in 

 the specimens I have opened, and, in connection with the geographic 

 isolation, may be held of specific significance. 

 Clausilia hyperoptyx sezokoensis n. subsp. 



The shell differs from C. hyperoptyx b}' having the last 4 or 5 whorls 

 densely striate, as in C. yaeyamensis. Internally it is like C. hyper- 

 optyx, the inferior lamella being continued inward parallel with the 

 spiral lamella. 



Sezokojima, an islet on the west side of Kunchan, Loochoo. Types 

 No. 89884 A. N. S. P., from No. 457d of Mr. Hirase's collection. Sezo- 

 kojima or Sesokojima is similar to the adjacent peninsula of Okinawa 

 geologically, being formed of raised reefs around a center of palaeozoic 

 limestone. 



Section STBRBOZAPTYX Pilsbry. 

 Clausilia exodonta n. sp. Figs. 9, 10. 



The shell is slender, fusiform, solid and strong, dull yellow, smoothish, 

 the last third of the last whorl strongly striate. Wliorls 8, moderately 

 convex, the last compressed at the 

 sides, tapering toward the base, built 

 forward free of the preceding whorl. 

 Apex rather acute. Aperture oblique, 

 small, piriform, the peristome broadly 

 expanded and reflexed. Sinulus 

 slightly retracted, oval, nearly separa- 

 ted from the aperture by a strong 

 conical tooth within the outer lip, 

 which approaches the lower end of the 

 superior lamella. Superior lamella 

 oblique, high, but not penetrating far 

 inward, separated from the spiral lamella, which is a 

 il^^y low plate in a lateral position, penetrating inward to 

 .A|Y a point above the columellar lip. Inferior lamella 



^ -=• / receding, visible as a strong fold in the aperture, strong, 



high and strongly spiral within the back, much shorter 

 within than the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella 



Fig. 10. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



very deeply immersed. Principal plica very short, weak and lateral. 

 Lunella low above, becoming very strong toward its lower end, which 

 is thickened and curves inward (fig. 10). There is a short, tubercular 

 fulcrum, but no sutural plicse. 



Length 9.8, diam. 2 mm. 



The clausilium is broad above, tapering to the apex, which projects 

 somewhat. It is strongly curved throughout, V-shaped in section 

 near the apical end, dilated on the palatal side near both ends, and 

 deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament, as usual. 



Sumiyoho, Oshima, Osumi. Types No. 95690 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1504 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This very distinct little species is more slender than C. entospira 

 or C. exulans, and differs from all known Japanese species by having 

 a conical tooth at the upper third of the outer lip, forming, with the 

 superior lamella, an oval sinulus. 



Section PARAZAPTYX Pils. 

 Clausilia thaumatopoma Pils. 



Originally described from Kumejima, this species has also been found 

 on the island of Kerama (Keramajima). in several places — ^Tokashiki, 

 Zamami and Tokashikijima. Most of the specimens from this island 

 are more slender than the types, with more whorls; yet some agree 

 with typical thaumatopoma in these respects, so that a subspecific 

 separation seems impracticable. 



The measurements of several specimens follow: 



Length 11.0, diam. 2.4 mm.; whorls 9 )„ 



^ ' " »i j Kumejmia. 



" 10 ] Tokshiki, 

 " 7f I Keramajima. 



^, ' ) Zamami, 

 ,, ^ ( Keramajima. 



" 9^ I Tokashikijima, 

 " 8i i Keramajima. 



The sculpture and the internal structure seem to be practically the 

 same throughout the series of 23 examples examined. 



Section METAZAPTYX Pilsbry. 

 The shell is similar to Zaptyx in having sutural plicse, fulcum and 

 parallel lamella. The inferior lamella is very broad loithin, ascends 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC 



spirally, and is visible in oblique view in the mouth as a strong fold 

 approaching the superior lamella. Spiral lamella very low throughout. 

 Base of the shell conspicuously full and sack-like, the latter part of 

 the last whorl sharply striate. Clausihum broad throughout, rounded 

 at the apex, strongly bent near the middle. Type C. pattalus. 



This group differs from Zaptyx by the shape of the inferior lamella 

 and the saccate base of the shell, and by the shape of the clausilium, 

 which is strongly bent near the middle, while in Zaptyx it is nearly flat 

 except close to the filament. It differs from Stereozaptyx by the shape 

 of the clausihum, which is broad at the distal or lower end in Meta- 

 zaptyx, tapering in Stereozaptyx. Also by the base of the shell, which 

 is not saccate in Stereozaptyx. 



The inferior lamella sometimes continues on the base of the penul- 

 timate whorl as a slender thread parallel to the spiral lamella, occa- 

 sionally penetrating deeper than the latter, but this thread-like con- 

 tinuation may be absent or interrupted. The spiral lamella is remark- 

 ably low throughout. As in Zaptyx, the species are closely related 

 and rather difficult. The shape of the clausihum is often characteristic. 

 Both Zaptyx and Metazaptyx are widely ranging groups in the islands 

 between Kyushu and Formosa. 



The following species belong to Metazaptyx: 



Southwestern Group of the Ryukyu Islands. 



C. pattalus Pils. Tarama-jima. 



C. p. miyakoensis Pils. Miyako-jima. 



dshima Group (Osumi). 



C. dcemonorum Pils. Ekaiga-shima. 

 C. d. viva Pils. Tokuno-shima. 



Tokara Group (Osumi). 



C. tokarana Pils. Suwanose-jima to Tokara-jima. 



C. t. saccatibasis Pils. Nakano-shima, Kuchino-shima. 



Izushichito-jima (Izu). 



C. hachijoensis Pils. Hachijo-jima and Nii-jima. 

 Clausilia tokarana n. sp. PI. XXX, fig. 3. 



The shell is cyhndric below, above tapering to the small but obtuse 

 apex; hght brown; weakly striatulate, nearly smooth, the last third 




1908 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



581 



Fig. 11. 



-a, b, C. tokarana; c, C. t. saccati- 

 basis, short form. 



of the last whorl finely and 

 rather sharply striate. Whorls 

 7^ to 9, slightly convex, the 

 last flattened at the sides, very 

 convex and somewhat sack- 

 like at the base. The aperture 

 is rhombic, peristome thin, 

 very narrowly reflexed, con- 

 tinuous. Superior lamella 

 is small, thin and vertical, 

 continuous with the spiral 

 lamella, which is low and 

 thread-like throughout, and 

 continues inward to a point 

 above the columella. The 

 inferior lamella recedes deeply, 

 and is visible as a prominent 

 fold in an oblique view in the 

 mouth. Inside it is broad 

 and ascends in a spiral curve; 



it is continued low and thread-like parallel to the spiral lamella, and 

 penetrates more deeply than that. The subcolumellar lamella emerges 

 weakly. The principal plica is short, dorso-lateral. The very short 

 or subobsolete upper palatal plica joins the very oblique, slightly 

 curved lunella. Sutural plicae, fulcrum and parallel plica are well 

 developed (fig. 11, a). 



Length 11, diam. 2.8 mm.; whorls 8|. 

 9, " 2.25 " " 1\. 



The clausilium (fig. 11,6) is broad, parallel-sided, rounded at the 

 apex, strongly curved in the middle, dilated on the palatal side of the 

 filament. 



Suwanose-jima, Osumi. Types No. 95678 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1592a of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Tokara-jima, No. 1592 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection, and Akuseki-jima, No. 1548 of Mr. Hirase's 

 collection. 



This species is related to C. t. saccatihasis, but the apical whorls are 

 smaller, the penultimate whorl is much less swollen, in. a dorsal view; 

 the shell is less distinctly striate, and is paler. The principal plica is 

 shorter in C. tokarana. 



In the specimens from Tokara-jima the superior and spiral lamellae 

 are separated, and the inward continuation of the inferior lamella 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



parallel to the spiral lamella, is only very weakly developed, scarcely 

 noticeable. They constitute a weakly differentiated race. 



In those from the intermediate island Akuseki-jima, the superior 

 and spiral lamellae . are weakly continuous — being, therefore, inter- 

 mediate in structure, as well as in geographic position, between the 

 forms from Suwanose and Tokara islands. Several specimens measure 

 as follows: 



Length 11.9, diam. 2.8rnm.; whorls 8 J. 

 10.0, " 2.9 " '' s'. 



11.0, " 2.5 " " 9. 



Clausilia tokarana and its variety saccatibasis were taken in some 

 profusion, and probably inhabit the whole "Tokara group" of islets, 

 being known from Kuchino-shima, Nakano-shima, Suwanose-jima, 

 Akuseki-jima, and Tokara-jima. All of these islands are of volcanic 

 origin, the country rock being andesite. Nakano and Suwanose have 

 active volcanoes, while the others have extinct craters or traces of 

 them. 

 Clausilia tokarana saccatibasis n. subsp. PI. XXX, figs. 4, 5. 



The shell is somewhat fusiform, the upper half tapering and atten- 

 uate, the last two whorls of about equal diameter, strong and solid, 

 glossy, rich purplish-hrowji with a paler or light band along the suture, 

 indistinct in some specimens, but especially conspicuous in the earlier 

 whorls, which are corneous with a median dark band. Wliorls 9 to 9^, 

 quite convex, the second disproportionately large, the penultimate 

 whorl swollen (in a view from the back), the last very convex below, 

 sack-like, its last half much compressed laterally. Aperture ovate. 

 Peristome white, reflexed, more or less thickened, continuous, the upper 

 margin notched over the superior lamella. The superior lamella is 

 small, compressed and vertical, continuous with the spiral lamella, 

 which is very low throughout and penetrates inward but little past 

 a lateral position. The inferior lamella is deeply immersed, but 

 visible (in an oblique view in the mouth) as a high lamella. It is a 

 strongly spiral wide plate within the back of the last whorl, but 

 decreases suddenly above where it joins the parietal wall, then becom- 

 ing a low cord parallel to the spiral lamella, and of the same length 

 inside. The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the lip-edge. It does 

 not extend upon the parietal wall inside. The principal plica is short, 

 mainly dorsal, extending to the lateral line. The upper palatal plica 

 is very short, connected with the lateral lunella, which is strong, long, 

 its lower and curving far inward. There are two small sutural plicae, 

 a moderately long parallel lamella and a short fulcrum. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 583 



Length 12.5 to 13.5, diam. 3.0 mm. 

 11, " 2.9 " 



The clausiHiim is quite broad, rounded at the apex, deeply excised 

 on the cokimellar side of the filament. Its curvature is chiefly in the 

 part near the filament. 



Nakanoshima, Osumi. Types No. 95679 A. N. S. P., from No. 1515 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Kuchinoshima. 



The type lot consists of very handsome, glossy, dark colored shells, 

 but there are some gray, corroded specimens among them, apparently 

 from a different situation. The smallest measures, length 11.5, diam. 

 3 mm., and has the penultimate whorl strongly swollen, the last whorl 

 compressed (fig. ll,c). 



This form is closely related to C. tokarana, but differs by its darker 

 color, swollen penultimate whorl, etc. It also resembles C. pattalus 

 of Tarama-jima and Miyako-shima, but it differs by having the penul- 

 timate whorl more swollen, the principal plica shorter, and the sub- 

 columellar lamella emerges. In both species the second whorl appears 

 disproportionately large. 



Examples from Kuchinoshima are corroded and dull, and have the 

 superior lamella separated rather broadly from the spiral lamella; 

 otherwise they do not differ from the types. 



The subspecies saccatihasis is confined to the two northern islands 

 of the Tokara group. 



Section IDIOZAPTYX n. sect. 



The shell is Zaptychoid externally. Superior lamella small, sepa- 

 rated from the much reduced spiral lamella. Inferior lamella receding, 

 massive, almost straightly ascending within. Upper palatal plica 

 long, the lunella descending from near its inner end, and joining the 

 inner end of the lower palatal plica; fulcrum and parallel lamella short 

 but distinct; sutural plicae developed. Clausilium excised and bent 

 near the filament, parallel-sided, rounded at the apex. Type C. 

 idioptyx. 



This section is related to Diceratoptyx^ but it differs in having a well- 

 developed lunella, joining the lower palatal pUca, in the straightly 

 ascending inferior lamella, and the very different clausilium, which 

 is hke that of Zaptyx. 



2 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1904, p. 836. To the diagnosis of Diceratoptyx should 

 be added . a small lower palatal plka is developed ; the inferior lamella ascends 

 in a broad, sigmoid curve. 




584 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Clausilia idioptyx n. sp. PI. XXX, fig. i. 



The shell is quite small, fusiform, brownish-yellow, somewhat trans- 

 lucent; surface glossy, weakly striatulate, nearly smooth, becoming 

 strongly and coarsely striate behind the outer lip. 

 The spire tapers regularly from the penultimate 

 whorl to the obtuse apex. Whorls 8-| to 8^, convex, 

 the last one compressed, tapering to the base. 

 Aperture ovate, with distinct, somewhat retracted 

 sinulus. Peristome reflexed, continuous. Superior 

 lamella very low, obtuse, short, very widely sepa- 

 rated from the spiral lamella, which is minute, and 

 lateral in position. Inferior lamella deeply receding, 

 its base visible as a low fold in an oblique view in 

 the aperture. Within the back it is straight, massive, and ascends 

 obhquely, terminating abruptly on reaching the parietal partition. 

 The subcolumellar lamella emerges very weakly, and in a lateral 

 position it forms an ascending angle, visible by transparence from the 

 outside. Fulcrum and parallel lamella'are visible as two equal, short 

 white folds about as far inward as the lunella. The principal plica 

 runs from near the mouth to a little beyond the lateral line. The 

 upper palatal plica is long, diverging forwardly from the principal 

 plica, its lower end visible in the aperture. The lower palatal plica 



Fig. 12. 



C 



Fig. 13. — Clausilium of C. idiophix. 



is short, parallel to the upper. Its inner end abuts against the lunella, 

 which joins the upper palatal plica near its inner end. There are two 

 distinct sutural plicae and a very weak one between them, as usual 

 (fig. 12). 



Length 9.0, diam. 1.9 mm. 

 7.8, " 1.8 " 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



The clausilium (fig. 13) is bent rather abruptly near the filament; 

 parallel-sided, the apex rounded; the external face is somewhat 

 swollen, inside concave. It is excised on the columellar side near the 

 filament. 



Nase, Oshima (Osumi). Types No. 95681 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1505 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



With a general resemblance to Clausilia dadoptyx, this species is 

 entirely distinct from all known forms in the structure of the closing 

 apparatus. 



Explanation of Plates XXX, XXXI, XXXII. 



Plate XXX— Fig. 1 — Clausilia idioptyx Pils. 

 Fig. 2 — Clausilia nakanoshimana Pils. 



Fig. 3- 

 Figs. 4, 5- 

 Fig. 6— 

 Fig. 7— 

 Figs, 8, 9- 

 Fig. 10— 

 Figs, 11, li 



tokarana Pils. 



tokarana saccatibasis Pils. 



hemileuca Pils. 



echo Pils. 



japonica ultima Pils. 



nakadce Pils. 



japonica vespertina Pils. 



Plate XXXI — Figs. 1, 2 — Clausilia tripleuroptyx Pils. 



Figs. 3-5 — Clausilia jacobianajacobiella Pils. Akusekijima. 



Fig. 6 — " " " Pils. Suwanosejima. 



Fig. 7— " nishinoshimana Pils. 



Figs. 8-10 — • " ikiensis tsushimana Pils. 



Fig. 11 — " hemileuca Pils. 



Figs. 12, 13— " agna spicata Pils. 



Figs, 14, 15 — " tosana Pils. Nametoko, lyo. 



Figs, 16, 17 — " " " Ushirohawa, Tosa. 



Figs, 18, 19— " " " Sliimohanyama, Tosa. 



Fig. 20 — " " " Irazuyama, Tosa. 



Plate XXXII — Figs. 1, 2, 3 — Clausilia formosensis hotawana Pils 

 Fig. 4 — Clausilia formosensis H. Ad. Arikawa. 

 Figs, 5, 6 — " taiwanica Pils. 

 Fig. 7 — " sivinhoei H. Ad. I-uirun. 



Figs. 8, 9 — " formosensis H. Ad. Hotawa. 

 Figs. 10, 11 — »" sioinhoei H. Ad. Suganiikei. 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



NEW LAND MOLLUSCA OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY AND Y. HIRASE. 



The present contribution includes species from the main island of 

 Japan, the Bonin Islands, Ryukyu Islands and Formosa. Recent 

 explorations in the Tokara Group (small volcanic islets between 

 Oshima and Yakushima) have filled a gap in our knowledge of the land 

 snails of the northeastern islands of the Ryukyu Curve, the Clau- 

 siliidce and operculate shells being especially interesting. 



Spiropoma japonicum tsushimanum n. subsp. 



The spire is slightly higher than in japonicum and the last whorl 

 descends more to the aperture. The cuticle is extremely finely and 

 densely striate, duller and darker than in japonicum; finally, the col- 

 umellar margin of the peristome is retracted more. 



Alt. 8, diam. 14.2 nam. 

 " 6.1, " 11.7 '' 



Izuhara, Tsushima. Types No. 95762 A. N. S. P., from No. 1447a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The several species and local forms of Spiropoma are only very 

 slightly differentiated, and while the races of Tsushima, Quelpart, etc., 

 have a certain individuality appreciable to the eye, their differences 

 are of no great importance. The generic type seems to be very con- 

 servative and inflexible. 

 Alycaeus tsushimanus n. sp. 



The shell is quite depressed, otherwise shaped as usual in the sub- 

 genus Chamalycceus; very pale reddish-brown or whitish. Spire low, 

 convex, the apex projecting a little, brown. Whorls 3^, the first 1^ 

 smooth, the rest sculptured with extremely delicate, close thread- 

 striae; just before the constriction of the neck the striation is dis- 

 tinctly stronger, and on the neck it is more or less obsolete. Later 

 part of the last whorl is moderately swollen, then contracted. Beyond 

 the contraction the neck is swollen in the middle, then descends a little 

 to the aperture. The sutural "tube" is rather long, and very closely 

 appressed, as if partially melted into the suture. The aperture is very 

 oblique, circular. The peristome is strongly expanded and refiexed, 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



its face thickened and convex, the outer edge somewhat recurved. 

 It is appressed for a short distance to the preceding whorl. The 

 rather wide umbiHcus is eUiptical. 



Alt. 3, diam. 5.8 mm. 



The operculum is somewhat concave externally, and its whorls 

 bear elevated cuticular appendages or raised cord-like spirals, wanting 

 in the depressed central part, which is generally filled with dirt. 



Tsutsu, Tsushima. Types No. 95737 A. N. S. P., from No. 1553 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is larger than other known Japanese species, with a more 

 broadly expanded peristome. It is related to the Korean A. cyclo- 

 phoroides Pils. and Hir., but differs by having a distinct swelling in 

 the middle of the neck and in some minor details of sculpture and 

 shape. By the characters of the operculum it belongs to the subgenus 

 Metalycceus. 



In a race of the same species found at Sasuna, Tsushima, the shell 

 is smaller, the diameter varying from 4 to 5 mm. This small form is 

 No. 95738 A. N. S. P., No. 1553a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 

 Alycaeus tokunoshimanus principialis n. subsp. 



The shell is much larger than A. tokunoshimanus, more or less deeply 

 reddish-yellow tinted above, nearly white beneath, the embryonic 

 whorls golden. Whorls 3^, the last half of the last whorl very much 

 inflated, then contracted into a rather small neck, beyond which the 

 whorl is strongly deflexed. Very closely and finely thread -striate, 

 more closely so on the inflated portion. Neck strongly bent downward. 

 Peristome strongly reflexed, thickened and bevelled on the face; 

 columellar border much narrower, its outer edge more or less straight- 

 ened. Alt. 3.3, diam. 5 mm. 



Ogachi, Oshima (Osumi). Types No. 95830 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 13306 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is the finest development of the tokunoshimanus series. That 

 species was originally described from the smallest of the several forms 

 now known. 

 Alycaeus tokunoshimanus mediocrii n. subsp. 



The shell is decidedly larger than A. tokunoshimanus, with the neck 

 bent downward more, and more coarsely striate in front of the con- 

 traction. The sculpture of the neck is also coarser than A. t. prin- 

 cipialis. Alt. 2.9, diam. 4.5 mm. 



Yorojima (Osumi). Types No. 89926 A. N. S. P., from No. 1330 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also found on Ikejijima (No. 89927 A. N. 

 S. P., and 1330a coll. Hirase). 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Alycaeus laevis n. sp. 



A ChamalyccBus resembling A. tokunoshimanus in general form; 

 openly umbilicate; spire low, conoiclal, the first whorl projecting. 

 Whorls 3^, regularly increasing to the middle of the last whorl, where 

 it rapidly enlarges, becoming much inflated. The inflation is termi- 

 nated by a moderately contracted neck which curves down to the 

 aperture. There is a prominent swelling around the neck in the 

 middle. The "tube" is rather long and pressed into the suture. 

 The surface is smooth, lightly marked with growth-lines, but on the 

 inflation there are distinct fine and close strise. The neck is smooth 

 and glossy. The aperture is very oblique; peristome expanded, 

 usually dilated to form a short lobe at the posterior angle. In fully 

 mature individuals an inner rim is built out shortly beyond the expan- 

 sion. Alt. 3, diam. 4 mm. 



Nakanoshima (Osumi). Types No. 95831 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1514 of Mr. Hirase's collection. It occurs also on Suwanosejima. 



In having a smooth surface, marked with sHght growth-lines only, 

 becoming striate on the inflation, this species is very distinct from 

 other Japanese and Ryukyuan forms. The rounded swelling on the 

 neck is a further distinguishing character. 

 Diplommatina paxillus ultima n. subsp. 



The shell is somewhat more robust than D. paxillus from Shanghai 

 or Cheju, Quelpart. The peristome is less angular at the foot of the 

 columella, — only very indistinctly so. The peristome is doubled, or 

 there is a wrinkle or two behind the outer lip. Adults vary from 

 reddish-brown to nearly white. 



Kashitake, Tsushima. Types No. 95662 A. N. S. P., from No. 1554a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also taken at Kojeto (Island of Koje), 

 Korea, No. 95660 A. N. S. P., from No. 1531 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



D. paxillus (Gredler) is a very widely distributed species, ranging 

 from Hunan to the Korean Archipelago, with closely related forms 

 in Formosa and Tsushima. In the present state of our collections 

 it is not easy to define subspecies. A form from Mokpo, Korea (No. 

 1531a of Mr. Hirase's collection), is similar to the shells from Koje 

 Island, except that there is a distinct angle at the foot of the columella. 

 The form from Quelpart is very close to typical Chinese D. paxillus. 

 Diplommatina yonakunijimana n. sp. 



The shell is narrow, the penultimate whorl much the largest, those 

 above tapering in a rather long cone with straight sides; pale brown; 

 sculpture of delicate thread-like striae, wanting in the region of the 

 constriction and on the last half or more of the last whorl. There are 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 589 



8 whorls, the first 5^ convex, regiilarl}'- and slowly increasing ; the next 

 enlarges more rapidly and is the widest, most convex whorl. It 

 contracts suddenly to the constriction, which lies one-fourth of a whorl 

 back of the peristome. The front of the last whorl has very widely 

 spaced strise when unworn, but the last half is smooth and glossy. 

 It ascends very little. The palatal pUca is short. It is faintly visible 

 above the suture in the thinnest shells, but most adults are too opaque 

 to show it externally. The aperture is subcircular, somewhat obhque. 

 Parietal callus thin, its edge scarcely thickened, ascending about half 

 way to the suture. Columellar lamella thin and small, its spiral con- 

 tinuation inward being thin and rather low. 



Length 3.1, diam. 1.4 mm. 



Yonakunijima, Osumi. Types No. 95675 A. N. S. P., from No. 1510 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



In this species the last fourth of the penultimate whorl, in front of 

 the constriction, is very narrow. It is related to D. kumejimana 

 P. and H., but differs by its far more widely spaced riblets. 



Diplommatina okiensis tsushimana n. subsp. 



The shell is like D. collarifera S. and B. in shape, but differs as 

 follows: The delicate thread-like strise of the last two whorls are 

 more widely spaced, and on the next earlier two whorls they are still 

 more spaced. The palatal plica is very short and lies under the 

 parietal callus. The spiral columellar lamella within the last whorl is 

 thin and much lower than in collarifera. D. okiensis is very similar, 

 but tsushimana differs by having the strise more widely spaced through- 

 out. The shell is pale brown, and resembles okiensis in the aperture 

 and collar. 



Length 3.9, diam. 1.9 mm.; whorls 6^. 



Tsutsu, Tsushima. Types No. 95664 A. N. S. P., from No. 1554 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Diplommatina nesiotica n. sp. 



A species of the subgenus Sinica. The lower two whorls form a 

 cylindric portion, those above taper rapidly in a straight-sided cone 

 about one-third the total length of the shell. It is pale red or grayish- 

 white, with sculpture of very dehcate hair-hke strise, which are rather 

 closely placed on the last two whorls, more spaced on the two preceding. 

 Whorls slightly exceeding 6, quite convex, regularly and slowly widen- 

 ing to the penultimate, which enlarges rapidly and is more swollen. 

 It contracts rather strongly to the constriction, which varies in position 

 from submedian in front to nearly over the inner edge of the columella. 

 38 




590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



The last whorl ascends moderately to the lip, and is usually worn nearly 

 smooth. The palatal plica is short, and either wholly to the left of 

 the parietal callus, or its inner half may be under the callus. The 

 aperture is rounded, a little longer than wide. Peristome thin, rather 

 narrowly reflexed, sometimes very indistinctly subangular at the 

 base of the columella. The parietal callus spreads rather extensively 

 upward, and has a thin, raised edge. The columellar tooth is so deeply 

 immersed that it is not visible in a front view. 



Length 3, diam. 1.8 mm. 



Suwanosejima, Osumi. Types No. 95668 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1587 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also found on the adjacent islands 

 Akusekijima and Nakanoshima, of the Tokara group. 



This species is related to D. saginata of Oshima and D. tanegashimce 

 of Tanegashima, both of them much smaller species. D. tanegashimce 

 is also more slender. D. saginata is a common and characteristic 

 species of Oshima. It is very similar toD. nesiotica but always much 

 smaller, so far as present collections show. 



Specimens from Akusekijima and Nakanoshima are a trifle smaller 

 than the types from the intermediate island Suwanosejima, measuring 

 2.5 to 2.8 mm. long. The palatal phca is slightly longer, and in some 

 specimens the columellar tooth is visible in a front view. 

 Diplommatina hirasei Pilsbry n. sp. 



The shell is large for a Sinica; the last two whorls, form more than 

 half the total length, are cylindric, upper portion conic with straight 

 sides. Whorls fully 6^, moderately convex, the last strongly ascending 

 in front, having a very strong, narrow ridge or collar a short distance 

 behind the lip, the back of the collar opaque whitish. Constriction 

 very slight, median in front. Color dull red. Sculpture of very 

 delicate hair-like striae, closer and finer on the last two whorls than on 

 the preceding two, and usually worn from fully adult shells. The 

 aperture is circular, orange colored within; peristome reflexed and 

 somewhat thickened, continued in a raised ledge across the parietal 

 wall, reaching to or almost to the suture. Palatal plica rather long and 

 wholly covered by the parietal callus. Columellar tooth strong, the 

 lamella within moderately high but thin. Internal parietal lamella 

 low. 



Length 4.75, diam. 2.5 mm. 



Gakuenji, Izumo. Types No. 95670 A. N. S. P., from No. 1596 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Makuragisan, Izumo, No. 95669 A. N. 

 S. P. 



This largest of the Japanese Diplommatinas is in every way more 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 591 



robust than D. collarifera S. and B. or D. okiensis V. and H. It 

 further differs by having the parietal callus extended nearly to the 

 suture, and the palatal phca lies wholly or almost wholly under the 

 parietal callus. 



Eulota (Euhadra) contraria n. sp. 



The shell is depressed, biconvex, umbilicate, angular at the periphery, 

 thin, greenish-yellow with a narrow dark red-brown band on the 

 peripheral angle and narrowly visible above the suture on the last 1^ 

 whorls; inner whorls suffused with reddish-brown. Surface but 

 slightly shining. First If whorls, forming the embryonic shell, are 

 convex, with a close sculpture of low granules arranged in obliquely 

 descending series. The next H whorls have weak growth-lines and 

 minute, rather closely arranged papillae scarcely noticeable in some 

 specimens. The last two whorls have irregular growth-lines, and some 

 shallow, irregular spiral sulci, most obvious on the base; there are also 

 minute papillse visible in places. Whorls 5^, the first H convex, 

 the rest convex below the suture, then flattened. The last whorl 

 scarcely descends in front, and is convex below. The aperture is 

 oblique, wide, lunate. Peristome white, the upper margin expanded, 

 the outer and basal margins rather narrowly reflexed. The parietal 

 callus is extremely thin. 



Alt. 15. diam. 26 mm. 

 " 14.3, " 25 " 



Koshun, South Formosa. Types No. 95838 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1581 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is a species of the E. succincta group. E. formosensis differs 

 by being more elevated , with the lip sinuous above and in having very 

 minute spiral striation on the last whorl. E. succincta is more com- 

 pact, with the last whorl narrower (viewed from above), and the 

 umbilicus is much smaller. The sculpture also differs in various 

 details. 



A specimen of E. contraria a little less mature than the type has the 

 last whorl reddish-brown, the spire paler. It is banded like the type 

 specimen. Only 10 examples of this fine snail were taken. 



Eulota (Euhadra) picta n. sp. 



The shell is rather narrowly umbilicate, somewhat depressed, with 

 conic spire; rather solid; pale yellow, with two broad dark reddish- 

 brown bands, the upper band extending from just below the periphery 

 half way to the suture, and ascending the spire above the suture, the 

 last 2 or 2^ whorls are therefore bicolored above; on earlier whorls the 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [DeC, 



band becomes light reddish-brown and spreads over the surface of the 

 whorls. The basal band is wider than the other, fading out on its 

 inner edge. There is also a small umbilical patch of the same dark 

 color. The surface is somewhat glossy, the first 4 whorls having a 

 microscopic sculpture of minute raised points, regularly arranged 

 (as in Chloritis); last whorl marked with growth-lines, not punctate. 

 Wiiorls 5^, moderately convex, very slowly widening, the last rounded 

 peripherally but showing the faint trace of a peripheral angle; not de- 

 scending in front; base somewhat flattened. The aperture is but 

 little oblique, wide, banded inside. Peristome narrowly reflexed, 

 colored by the bands, dilated at the coliunellar insertion, half con- 

 cealing the umbiUcus. 



Alt. 22, diam. 30.2 mm. 

 " 20.7, " 29.0 '' 



Yonakuni-jima, Ryukyu. Cotypes No. 95837 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1507 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A very handsome species of the caliginosa group, closely resembling 

 E. okinoerabuensis in shape, but the last whorl, viewed from above, 

 is narrower, and the minute sculpture of the spire is different. The 

 somewhat flattened base and the shape of the basal lip are features 

 like E. caliginosa. 



Eulota luhuana latispira n. subsp. 



The shell is large, bright greenish-yellow, with three brown bands, 

 coarsely striate, with the usual fine spiral lines. The spire is very 

 wide, whorls more slowly and more regularly increasing than in luhuana 

 or senckenhergiana, the last whorl narrow^er. Umbilicus ample, regu- 

 larly tapering within. 



Alt. 30, diam. 48 mm. ; whorls 6^. 



Hakusan, Kaga. Types No. 83913 A. N. S. P., from No. 562a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The spiral bands may be dark and conspicuous, or very pale. The 

 lip is flesh colored, varying in shade in different shells. 



Eulota (.ffigista) perangulata n. sp. 



The shell is umbilicate (width of umbilicus contained 4^ times in 

 the diameter of the shell), conic above, convex below, strongly angular 

 at the periphery; light brown, dull, finely striate, sometimes with some 

 very delicate, short, thread-like cuticular appendages on some of the 

 striae in places. Under the cuticle there are very fine spiral lines, 

 visible just in front of the parietal callus. Whorls 61, moderately 

 convex, slowly increasing, the last strongly angular peripherally, the 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 593 



angle disappearing immediately behind the peristome. The whorl 

 scarcely descends in front, not angular around the umbiHcus. The 

 aperture is rounded-lunate; peristome thin, forming three-fourths of 

 a circle; the upper margin is slightly expanded, outer and basal mar- 

 gins reflexed. Parietal callus merely a thin film. 



Alt. 8.5, diam. 13.7 mm. 

 " 9, " 13 



Izuhara, Tsushima. Cotypes No. 95859 A. N. S. P., from No. 1551 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is a strongly angvilar species of the E. aperta group. The 

 peristome is like that of E. aperta tumida. Neither E. aperta or E. 

 mimula is known from the island of Kyushu. 

 Trishoplita cretacea hypozona n. subsp. 



The shell is conic, white with a broad purplish-brown or rich reddish- 

 brown zone on the base. The surface is rather finely striate, the striae 

 elegantly granulose, especially on the base. 



Alt. 14, diam. 17.8 mm.; whorls 6^. 

 " 12, " 16.8 " '' 6. 



Mikuriya, Hoki. Types No. 95862 A. N. S. P., from No. 387a of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. It also occurs at Mihonoseki and Gakuenji, 

 Izumo, and at Itsukushima, Aki. 



The shell is generally in large part denuded of cuticle, as in T. 

 cretacea. The granules on the strise of the base are irregular, not 

 arranged in spiral lines. Some specimens from Izumo are smaller: 



Alt. 12.2, diam. 16 mm.; whorls 6^. 

 '' 10, " 14.5 '' " 6. 



A single example seen from the province Aki resembles hypozona 

 in shape and color, but differs in minute sculpture, the strise being 

 superficially cut by fine spiral lines, chiefly evident on the base, in 

 place of the irregular granulation of typical hypozona. This form 

 (No. 87678 A. N. S. P., No. 1190 of Mr. Hirase's collection) may be 

 found separable from hypozona, yet we prefer to refer it to that race 

 until more material can be brought together. 



T. c. hypozona inhabits the provinces along the northern shore of 

 the western end of the main island of Japan. 

 Ganesella albida mollioula n. subsp. 



The shell is larger than G. albida, thinner, more transparent, bluish- 

 milky above the keel, transparent yellowish below, sculptured quite dis- 

 tinctly with close microscopic spiral lines; base decidedly more convex 

 than in albida, the mouth and columella being longer; whorls more 

 numerous. 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Length 21, cliam. 14.5 mm.; whorls 6^. 



Toshim, South Cape of Formosa. Type No. 95753 A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 1584 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The typical measurements of G. albida (H. Ad.) are alt. 15, cliam. 

 14 mm. An example of the typical form from Sammaipo before us 

 measures, alt. 14.5, diam. 12 mm., whorls 5^. Only three examples 

 of G. a. mollicula were taken. 

 Ennea iwakawa yonakunijimana n. subsp. 



Closely related to E. i. miyakojimana P. and H., but the aperture 

 is more contracted by the large teeth, and the spire tapers more, being 

 widest below the middle, at the penultimate whorl. Whorls 6f to 

 7h. 



Length 4, diam. 1.9 mm. 



Yonakunijima, Loochoo. Types No. 95715 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1511 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 

 Petalochlamys rejecta (Pfr.). 



Helix rejecta Pfr., P. Z. S., 1859, p. 25, No. 9, pi. 43, fig. 1; Monographia 



Hel. Viv., V, 142. 

 Microcystis? rejecta Mlldff., Jahrb. D. M. Ges., X, p. 365. 

 Hyalina mamillaris Heude, Moll. Terr. Fleuve Bleu, 1882, p. 15, pi. 19, fig. 8. 



This species was described from a specimen taken by Robert For- 

 tune in "northern China." Dr. von Moellendorff has pointed out 

 that most of the shells discovered by Fortune are from places inland 

 from Shanghai, toward the tea district of Wu-yuan in the Province 

 An-hui. Hangchow, where several of Fortune's species occur, such 

 as Pledotropis hrevibarbis, is between Shanghai and Wu-yuan. A 

 Petalochlamys from Hangchow, taken by Mr. Nakada, agrees with 

 Pfeiffer's description of H. rejecta. 



Fig. 1. — P. rejecta Pfr., Hangchow, China. 



The shell is strongly depressed, with very low-conic spire; of the 

 usual thin substance and of a greenish-yellow color above, subtrans- 

 parent, the base perceptibly paler. The umbiUcus is extremely 

 narrow, its width contained about 12 times in that of the shell. The 

 surface is polished, and shows under a compound microscope very 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



close, engraved spiral lines, chiefly below the suture, wanting on the 

 first whorl, and becoming weak on the last whorl and the base. 

 Large specimens have just 5 whorls; these increase rather slowly to 

 the last which is very wide — ^wider than in related species. Seen from 

 above the spire is small, its diameter hardly 46 per cent, of the total 

 diameter of the shell. The last whorl is equally rounded at the 

 periphery. The aperture is broadly lunate. 

 Alt. 7, greater diam. 13.5, lesser 11.3 mm. 



The specimens described and figured are from Hangchow, Chekiang 

 Province, China; No. 95800 A. N. S. P., from No. 1476 of Mr. Hirase's 

 collection. 



P. rejecta is related to P. planula and P. planata of Heude, but 

 viewed from above the last whorl is wider than in either of these 

 species, both of which moreover are smaller. Dr. O. von Moellendorf 

 found rejecta in Lii-shan, near Kiukiang. P. Fuchs collected it in 

 southern Hunan and northern Guangdung, and Father Heude de- 

 scribed specimens from the former locality as H. mamillaris, a species 

 which von Moellendorff referred to rejecta as a synonym. The first 

 published record of rejecta, after the original reference, was by A. 

 Adams, who identified it from Tsushima {Annals and Magazine of 

 Natural History, 4th series, I, 1868, p. 467). Among difficult and 

 critical species an identification by Adams has slight value. Von 

 Martens, Reinhardt and Kobelt have repeated Adams' record, but 

 without further confirmation. I do not know the locality of the 

 specimen figured by Dr. Reinhardt. Kobelt has copied these figures. 

 On the whole, it seems hazardous to admit P. rejecta to the fauna of 

 Japan or Korea without better evidence than we now have. It will 

 probably prove to be pecuhar to China, especially in the district below 

 the mouth of the Yangtze, in An-hui and Chekiang Provinces. At 

 all events, the somewhat similar Petalochlamys known to us from 

 Tsushima is certainly a species distinct from P. rejecta. 



Petalochlamys subrejecta n. sp. 



Macrochlamys rejecta Pfr., Hirase, The Conch. Magazine, II, p.' 5 pi. 13 



fig. 13, not Helix rejecta 'Pir. ' ' 



Macrochlamys subrejecta Pils. and Hir.,Conch. Mag., II, p. 76 (no description) . 



Shell depressed, very narrowly vmabilicate, very thin and fragile, 

 glossy, of a pale brown tint, or very pale greenish-yellow. The sur- 

 face is weakly marked with growth-lines, and under the compound 

 microscope shows very fine, close, superficial spiral striae, wanting on 

 the first whorl, becoming weak on the last whorl. The spire is low- 

 conoidal, wide; its diameter, viewed from above, is 58 per cent, the 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



total diameter of the shell. Wliorls 5f, slowly increasing, the last 

 much wider, rounded at the periphery. The suture is narrowly trans- 

 parent-margined. Umbilicus very small, its diameter contained about 

 20 times in that of the shell. Aperture lunate. 



Alt. 7.6, greater diam. 13.2, lesser 12 nmi. 



Sasuna, Tsushima. Types No. 95802 A. N. S. P., from No. 1549a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also found at Fusan, Korea. 



Fig. 2. — P. subrejecta. 



Compared with the Chinese P. rejeda, this species is less depressed 

 and has, viewed from above, a much wider spire and narrower last 

 whorl. The aperture is consequently higher and less dilated laterally. 

 The spiral sculpture is not quite so deeply engraved, and the umbilicus 

 is wider than in P. rejeda, though still very narrow. P. suhrejeda 

 is probably the shell A. Adams reported from Tsushima as Macro- 

 chlamys rejeda Pfr. 

 Petalochlamys serenua n. sp. 



The shell is depressed, very narrowly umbilicate, amber colored, 

 subtransparent, very fragile. The surface has dehcate, close micro- 

 scopic engraved spirals both above and below. Spire slightly convex; 

 whorls 4, but slightly convex, slowly increasing to the last, which is 

 much wider, rounded peripherally. The suture is narrowly trans- 

 parent-margined. Aperture lunate, columellar lip triangularly dilated 

 at the insertion, thin; columella vertical, 



Alt. 2.8, greater diam. 4.7, lesser 4 mm. 



Kaminoyama, Kunchan, Okinawa. Types No. 95809 A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1441 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This small, very fragile shell is related to P. doenitzi (Reinh.), 

 but the last whorl is wider in a view from above, and is somewhat 

 more ample. 

 PetalocMamys perfragilis sakui subsp.n. 



The shell is more depressed than P. perfragilis and P. p. shiko- 

 kuensis, and is a little more openly umbilicate. Surface brilHantly 

 polished, almost smooth, but under a compound microscope very 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



faint traces of spiral striae may be seen in some places, and on the base 

 of the last whorl these incised spirals sometimes become distinct. 

 The suture is white-edged. 



Alt. 8.7, greater diam. 15, lesser 13.2 mm. 



Yaku-shima (Osumi), types No. 85729 A. N. S. P., from No. 1081 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. It also occurs on Kuchinoerabu-shima 

 (Osumi). 



Kaliella gudei mutsuensis n. subsp. 



The shell is perforate, conic, having an acute peripheral keel, visible 

 on the spire as a thread in the suture; irregularly striatulate and glossy. 

 Whorls 4f to 5, convex. Aperture lunate, truncate at the ends. 

 Columellar margin vertical, slightly thickened, reflexed at the insertion. 



Alt. 3.3, diam. 4.7 mm. 



Osoreyama, Mutsu. Types No. 96178 A. N. S. P., from No. 1445 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form differs from K. gudei by the number of whorls and much 

 smaller size. The whorls are more convex than in K. ceratodes (Gude), 

 and the columella is less calloused. In K. koshinoshimana the M'horls 

 are more closely coiled. K. g. 7nutsuensis differs from K. sororcida 

 by its vertical columella, that of K. sororcula being oblique to the shell- 

 axis. 



Kaliella subcrenulata satsumaua n. subsp. Fig. 3. 



A form decidedly larger than K. subcrenu- 

 lata. Under the compound microscope there 

 are seen to be fine thread-like vertical striae 

 on the upper surface and on a band below 

 the periphery. The rest of the base is glossy, 

 but shows a few fine spiral lines. 



Alt. 2.3, diam. 3.25 mm. Fig. 3. 



Yamakawa, Satsuma. Types No. 96176 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 1593 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Kaliella longissima n. sp. Fig. 4. 



The shell is minutely perforate, conic-turrite, with nearly straight 

 lateral outUnes and obtuse summit; pale yellowish, subtransparent. 

 Surface glossy, almost smooth. Whorls 9^, very slowly increasing, 

 moderately convex, the last rounded peripherally, though there is a 

 very delicate thread-like keel. Base convex. Aperture semilunar, 

 the columella vertical, with reflexed edge. 



Alt. 4.25, diam. 2.3 mm. 




598 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Sasuna, Tsushima. T5rpes No. 96177 A. N. S. P., from No. 1556 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is the most lengthened Japanese Kaliella 

 known to us, being much longer than K. prcealta. 

 The Indian K. elongata G.-A. has about the same 

 proportions, but differs by its strongly keeled last 

 whorl, the convex outhnes of the spire, etc. 



KalioUa boninensis n. sp. 



The shell is perforate, depressed, the spire con- 



vexly conoidal, with obtuse, rounded summit, base 



convex, the periphery angular; brown. Surface 



rather dull above, more glossy beneath ; first half 



whorl smooth, next whorl sharply striate and 



Fig. 4. decussated with fine spiral lines ; following w^horls 



are densely, finely and sharply striate, with very 



faint traces of spiral hues in places; the base is smoothish, but not much 



polished; showing faint traces of spiral lines in places. Whorls 3f, 



moderately convex. 



Alt. 1.75, diam. 2.66 mm. 

 f ■ Anijima. Ogasawara (Bonin Islands). Types No. 95867 A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1500 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This small species is not closely related to any known Ogasawaran 

 or Japanese form. Whether it really belongs to Kaliella is perhaps 

 doubtful. 

 Sitala ultima n. sp. 



The shell is perforate, conic, with the last whorl large; very fragile, 

 amber colored, rather shining, with a silky luster above, more glossy 

 below. Sculpture of excessively fine, close vertical strisB decussated 

 by very delicate spirals, the base having engraved spiral lines. The 

 spire is straightly conic. Whorls 4^, convex, the last angular at the 

 periphery in front, becoming inflated and rounded in the last half. 

 Base rather convex. 

 Alt. 2.3, diam. 2.9 mm. 



Kaminoyama, Uzen. Types No. 95908 A. N. S. P., from No. 1443 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This delicate snail is smaller than the related S. reinhardti, and has 

 much more distinct microscopic sculpture. It lives farther north than 

 any other known Sitala. 

 Ena luchuana nesiotica n. subsp. 



The shell is rimate, very thin, purplish-hrowyi, more or less flecked 

 with yellow on the upper whorls, by incipient disintegration of the 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 599 



cuticle. The spire tapers regularly to the small but obtuse apex. 

 Whorls 7^. The earhest whorls are worn but seem to be smooth. 

 On the third whorl very fine, close spiral striae appear, and by the 

 decussation of growth-lines the surface becomes minutely granular. 

 Tiie last whorl or two are more coarsely closely granulose. The aper- 

 ture is shghtly obhque, dark inside; peristome expanded, slightly 

 thickened within, white. Columella dilated and forked above. Parie- 

 tal callus very thin and transparent. 



Length 17, diam. 7.0 mm. 

 17.2, " 6.9 " 

 16, " 7.0 " 



Kuroshima, Osumi. Types No. 95768 A. N. S. P., from No. 1546a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Yakushima, No. 1546 of Mr. Hirase's 

 collection, 95769 A. N. S. P. 



This form differs from Ena luchuana and E. I. oshimana by the dark 

 coloration, without light streaks, and the more pronounced granula- 

 tion. The specimens from Yakushima seem to be identical in all 

 respects with those from Kuroshima. 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



ON THE MELOID^ OF ANGOLA. 

 BY F. CREIGHTON WELLMAN, M.D. 



While determining a collection of Angolan specimens of Coleoptera of 

 the family Meloidse recently collected by myself, I have had occasion 

 to go somewhat thoroughly into the literature of the subject and also 

 to compare the material in the British Museum, the Hope Department of 

 Oxford University, the Konigliches and the National jMuseums in Berlin, 

 the National Museum at Washington, and several private collections; 

 so it seems that the results, together with my collecting notes, may 

 be of sufficient interest to publish along with the descriptions of the 

 new forms that have come to light. 



Our present knowledge of the Meloidse of Angola, it may be said, is 

 due principally to three collections, viz., the Schonlein-Grossbendtner 

 collection described by Erichson, the Welwitsch collection, the Meloid 

 material of which was described by Marseul, and the collection made 

 by von Hohmeyer and Pogge and described by Harold. My own 

 collection — described in the present paper — ^is now added. Besides 

 these there are a few single descriptions l^}^ various authors, which will 

 be found in their places in the present list. It is possible that some 

 of the more recent records have escaped my attention. Of the four 

 collections named above, by far the most complete is that of Welwitsch, 

 which, like all the collections of this gifted naturalist, is of the highest 

 scientific value. 



I have recently, in collaboration with Dr. Walther Horn of Berlin, 

 published a memoir containing a short description of the region under 

 consideration and some account of its zoogeographical features and 

 shall content myself with referring to that paper,^ only observing here 

 that with the exception of two new species, viz., Mylabris {Actenodia) 

 deserticola Wellman (from the littoral region) and Mylabris chisarn- 

 bensis Wellman (from the high inland plateau), all the Angolan Meloidse 

 collected by me are from the mountain slopes intermediate between 

 the interior alpine region and the low-lying coastlands. 



Some of the habits of the beetles are most interesting. I shall not 



1 On the Cicindelinse of Angola, by F. Creighton Wellman, M.D., F.E.S., and 

 Walther Horn, M.D., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., November, 1908, pp. 504-512. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



speak here of the remarkable illustrations of mimicry and warning 

 colors afforded by the Angolan species, as I have already in preparation 

 a paper on these questions, in collaboration with Prof. E. B. Poulton, 

 F.R.S., of Oxford University, England. I may perhaps with advan- 

 tage, however, refer at this time to the most important food plant of the 

 Angolan Meloidse. This is a small Roseaceous annual which Prof. Engler 

 kindly informed me in Berlin last summer was a species of Tribulus 

 (T. zegheri) which is widely distributed in tropical Africa. Throughout 

 the desert belt of Angola (which extends from the sea to a point 30 

 to 100 miles inland according to the configuration of the country) 

 this plant occurs in enormous masses and is the most important and 

 indeed almost the only food supply of the Meloidse of the region. 

 Most of the genera represented eat it — Mylabris (Ceroctis, Actenodia, 

 Coryna, Decapotoma), Lytta, etc. There are great patches of the 

 yellow blooms and these reveal thousands of beetles; sometimes 

 almost every plant has one or more beetles. Some of the more com- 

 mon species like Mylabris dentata Olivier, Mylabris (Actenodia) chryso- 

 nielina Erichson, Mylabris pluvialis Wellman, Mylabris (Decapotoina) 

 regis Thomas and Mylabris {Coryna) 12-punctata Chevrolat can be 

 obtained in almost endless numbers, and the yellow faeces of the 

 beetles may be seen over the ground like numerous small dots. It is 

 interesting to note that insects like these, which are during their larva? 

 stages all parasitic on other insects, should have such an intimate 

 relation in their imaginal stage to certain plants. Lyttini in their 

 early stages feed on the eggs of Orthoptera and Mylabrini on the young 

 of the same order of insects. In Angola these beetles occur shortly 

 before or about the time when the young Locustidse and Acrididae 

 become numerous, the first rains doubtless having something to do 

 with the hatching of them all. The appearance of the adult Meloidse 

 is almost exactly synchronous with the flowering of the Tribidus, 

 which lasts only a few weeks, and should the beetles be too early or 

 too late in their appearance they (being flower feeders) must inevitably 

 perish from want of food in this desert region where only this one 

 species of Tribulus^ (which is apparently fertilized by the beetles 

 themselves) is abundant enough to support such vast numbers of 

 insects. We see here another illustration of how in the economy of 

 nature the interdependence of several organisms may be very close 



' I have remarked on the relation of this flower to Angolan Meloid^ before 

 the Deutsch. Entomol. Gesellschaft, rid. report in Deiitsch. Ent. Zeitschrift 

 1908 p. 647. 




602 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



and the adjustment of life to environment very delicate. Other notes 

 on the habits of the various species need not be discussed here, but will 

 be found with the mention of the various species. 



Following is a list of the species occurring in Angola, so far as I have 

 been able to verify the records. When I have had occasion to compare 

 material with original types I have usually indicated where such types 

 are to be found. It may be mentioned that in the records and sjai- 

 onymy all names from Dejean's Catalogue have been ignored, as have 

 MS. names, since the recognition of such serves only to perpetuate 

 confusion. A set of cotypes (with the exception of three uniques) 

 of the new forms described in this paper has been deposited in the 

 collection of the United States National Museum. Probably a few of 

 the species now included under Mylabris (sens, str.), and of which I 

 have been unable to trace the types, will later have to be distributed 

 among the various subgenera which I have recognized. 



Fam. MELOID^. 



Siibfam. LYTTIN-E. 



Tribe MYLABRINI. 



Genus MYLABRIS Fabr.,Syst. Ent., 1775, p. 261. 



Subgenus 1. ACTENODIA Cast., Hist, des Ins., II, 1840, p. 268. 



Syn. Actenoda Erichs., Wiegm. Arch., IX, 3, 1843, p. 257 (? ex error). 

 Syn. Arithmema Chevr., Ic. Regn. anim., Ill, p. 384. 



Subgenus 2. CORYNA Billb., Mon. Mylabr., 1813, p. 73, nota. 



Syn. Hycleus Latr., Regn. anim., Ed. I., 1817, p. 314. 



Subgenus 3. DECAPOTOMA Voigts, Wien. Ent. Zeit., XXI, p. 177. 



Syn. Decatoma Cast., Hist, des Ins., II, 1840, p. 268 (nee Spinola). 



Subgenus 4. MYLABRIS Fabr., Syst. Ent., 1775, p. 261 (sens, strict.). 



Subgenus 5. CEROCTIS Mars., Abeille, VII, 2, 1870, p. 168. 



Syn. Mimesthes Mars., Mem. Soc. Sci. Liege, 1872, p. 566. 



Subgenus 6. LYDOCERAS Mars., Abeille, VII, 2, 1870, p. 12. 



The following artificial table based on the antennal characters may 

 be useful in separating these subgenera of Mylabris: 



A. — Antennae wdth from eight to eleven joints, last joints inflated 

 into a club-shaped mass. 

 a. — Antennae moniliform. 



Antennae eight-jointed, Actenodia. 



Antennae nine-jointed, Coryn.x. 



Antennae ten-jointed, Decapotoma. 



Antennae eleven-jointed, Mylabris (s. str.). 



aa. — Antennae serrate. 



Antennae eleven-jointed, Ceroctis. 



A A. — Antennae with eleven joints, last joints not inflated. 



Antennae somewhat flattened, Lydoceras 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 603 



Subgenus ACTENODIA Cast. 



1. Mylabris (A.) chrysomelina Erichs. Wiegm. Arch. f. Naturg., 1843, p. 258. 



Angola (IiIrichson), Loanda, Bengo (Welwitsch), Mossamedes 

 (Anchieta), Gamba, March, 1908, 341 specimens (Wellman). All the 

 specimens were taken on the flowers of Tribulus zegheri. Type in 

 Berlin Konigliches IMuseum, marked on locality label "Angola, Schonh." 



2. Mylabris (A.) deserticola Wellm. spec. nov. 



Nigra, elongata, pallido-pubescens; elijtris nigris, pundulatis, pone 

 basin et humerale flavo-maculatis undulatimque bifasciatis, fascia anteri- 

 ore flava, posteriore fulva; prothorace et capite fortiter pundatis, illo 

 medio breviter foveolato; antennarum ariiculis 1, 2, 6, 7, 8 nigris, 3, 4, 5 

 testaceis; pedes testacei, geniculis tarisque nigris. 



Long. Corp. 8 mm. 



Lat. elytr. Z\ mm. 



Hob. Benguella (Africa) ah auctore coUecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Small, graceful species; head black, rather strongl}^ puncturetl and 

 with a few scattered minute pale hairs ; labrum emarginate, rather hairy ; 

 mandibles fuscous, maxillary palpi with apical joint obliquely truncate 

 and nearly twice as long as penultimate, labial palpi short, eyes large, 

 antenme with first two joints black, 2d to 5th testaceous, 6th to 8tli 

 black, rather sparsely covered with short fine white hairs and a few larger 

 black ones, the last joint more closely covered with short fine white hairs ; 

 thorax black rather sparsely and strongly punctured, clothed with pallid 

 hairs, in the center at the basal third is an elongate fovea about ^ 

 the length of the thorax; scutellum small, with a few short pallid hairs; 

 elytra black irregularly punctulate, pallidly villose, with a large yellow or 

 pale orange spot at the base of each elytron, and two transverse irregular 

 bands, one of a yellow color a little in front of the middle and the other 

 of an orange red color about half way between the middle band and the 

 apex of the elytron; at the humeral margin of the elytron is a spot 

 smaller and narrower than the basal spot, this is connected by a 

 narrow marginal band to the middle transverse fascia; legs testaceous 

 with a rather broad apical black band to the femora, a much narrower, 

 occasionally nearly obsolete black apical band on the tibiae and tarsi, 

 the last tarsus being sometimes almost entirely black ; the under side 

 of the body is black. 



Type in my collection; cotype (paratype) Cat. No. 12119, U. S. N. M. 



Five specimens of this pretty little species were taken in the desert 

 just outside of the city of Benguella in March, 1908. The}'- were all 

 on a leafless shrub and their food plant is unknown. It seemed pro- 




604 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



blematical what they could find to feed on in that dried-up region. 

 There is a series of specimens without name in the Konighches Museum 

 in Berhn. 



3. Mylabris (A.) jucunda Ericha., Wiegm., Arch. f. Naturg., I, 1843, p. 257. 



Angola (Erichson), Angola, Benguella (Marseul). 



Type in Berhn, Konighches Museum, marked "Angola, Schonh." 



Subgenus CORYNA Billb. 



4. Mylabris (C.) ambigua Gerst., Wiegm. Arch. f. Naturg., XXXVII, p. 68. 



Gamba, March, 1908, 2 specimens (Wellman). 

 This species was originally described from Zanzibar and placed by 

 its author as a Mylabris. 



Type in Berlin, Konighches Museum. 



5. Mylabris (C.) chevrolati Beaur., Les Ins. V^s., 1890, p. 623. 



Hydoeus duodecim-punctata Chevr., Guer. Ic. regn. anim., p. 132, tab. 35, fig. 3 



(nee Oliv.). 

 Hycleus decimguttatus Cast., Hist. Nat. des Ins., II, p. 268. 



Gamba, March, 1908, 72 specimens (Wellman). 



Originally descril^ed from Senegal. 



6. Mylabris (C.) hermanniae Fabr., Ent. Syst., I, 2, p. 89. 



Mylabris affinis Oliv., Ent., Ill, 47, p. 8, tab. 2, fig. 16. 

 Angola — "aus dem inneren" — (Pogge). 

 Described from Guinea. 



7. Mylabris (C.) mylabroides Cast., Hist. Nat. des Ins., II, p. 208. 



Mylabris lanuginosa Gerst., Monatsb. Berl. Acad., 1854, p. 695. 

 Angola (Marseul). 

 The type of lanuginosa is in Berlin, Konighches Museum. 



8. Mylabris (C.) postbuma Mars., Mem. Soc. roy. Sci. Li^ge, 1872, p. 603. PI. VI, fig. 6. 



Angola, Bengale = ? Bangala (Marseul), Loanda, Bengo (Wel- 

 witsch), Humbe, HuiUa (Anchieta), Gamba, March, 1908, 308 

 specimens (Wellman). 



On the flowers of Trihulus zegheri. 



It is possible that mixta Mars, from "Caffraria" is a variety of 

 posthuma. 



9. Mylabris (C.) tergemina Mars., Mem. Soc. roy. Sci. Liege, 1872, p. 613. 



Angola (Marseul). 



Subgenus DECAPOTOMA Voigts. 



10. Mylabris (D.) decorata Erichs., Wiegm. Arch. f. Naturg., 1843, p. 256. 



Angola (Erichson), Benguella (Marseul), Loanda (Welwitsch), 

 Loanda (Hohmeyer), Huiha (Anchieta). 

 Type in Berlin, Konighches Museum. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 605 



11. Mylabris (D.) chiyakensis Wellm. spec. nov. 



Nigra, argenteo-villosa , caput et thorax obscure viridi-ccerulescentia, 

 subtiliter punctata, pallido-villosa; elytra nigra, argenteo-villosa; vittis 

 duabus (altera dorsali, altera marginali; ilia medium attingente ad 

 apicem valde dilatata, hac medium subattingente minus dilatata) macu- 

 lisque duabus {altera dorsali, altera marginali) inter medium et apicem 

 positis: corpus infra pedesque nigra (femora pallido-hirsuto , tibice flavo- 

 sericeae) pedes postici elongati. 



Long. Corp. 12 mm. 



Lat. elytr. 4 mm. 



Hah. Chiyaka, Angola (Africa) ab auctore collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Medium sized species; head and thorax dark greenish-blue, finely 

 punctured and clothed with long pale hairs; eyes large, very convex; 

 antenna with first two joints shining, the rest dull; scutellum almost 

 semicircular; elytra black, finely punctured, clothed with pale, silvery 

 hairs; on each elytron a dorsal and marginal broad yellow line, both 

 dilated at the posterior termination, the former reaching past the 

 middle of the elytron and strongly dilated into a large transverse spot; 

 the latter not reaching to the middle of the elytron and less strongly 

 dilated. In some specimens the dorsal vitta is interrupted, the ter- 

 minal dilatation then becoming an isolated spot and the vitta remain- 

 ing shorter than the marginal one. Half way between the terminal 

 inflation of the dorsal vitta and the apex of the elytra a large, some- 

 what transverse spot; a smaller transverse spot opposte it at the mar- 

 gin. The legs and abdomen are clothed with rather long, pale hairs, 

 the tibiae being closely covered with shorter and yellower hairs. The 

 hind legs are very long. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12120, U. S. N. M. 



There also occurs a variety of this species which may be brief!}' 

 characterized as follows: 

 Mylabris (D.) chiyakensis var. tekama Wellm. var. nov 



Vittis dorsalibus mdlis macidisque minoribus. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



The very striking reduction of the yellow markings gives at first 

 glance the impression of a different species. The name is a local 

 Bantu word referring to the dull color. 



Eighty-one specimens of this interesting species were taken in Feb- 

 ruary, 1908, chiefly on flowers of Compositae. In life the antennae are 

 held farther forward than in most Mylabrini, giving the insect a some- 

 what peculiar aspect. 

 39 




606 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [HeC-, 



12. Mylabris (D.) elendensis Wellm. spec. nov. 



Nigra, elongata, argenteo-subpubescens, capite prothoraceque crebre 

 punctatis, hoc subimpresso; antennis nigris; elytra nigra, vittis duabus 

 flavis (vitta dorsali ad apicem subiter, vitta marginali non, dilatata) 

 maculisque 2 posticis, oblique positis, ornatis; pedes nigri, argenteo- 

 sericei; abdomen nigrum. ~ 



hong. Corp. 12 mm. 



Lat. elytr. 3^ mm. 



Hab. Chiyaka (Mt. Elende), Angola, Africa; ob auctore collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Slender species; head (including antennae and mouth parts) black, 

 closely punctured with pale villosity, eyes large, hemispherical; anten- 

 nce black, thorax black, punctured like head, pubescence pale, feebly 

 impressed in the median line at its posterior third; scutellum large; 

 elytra black, more coarsely punctured than the head and thorax, 

 palely villose, with yellow markings disposed as follows: two dorsal 

 vittae, one on each elytron, not reaching to the posterior third of ely- 

 tron; here it is angularly deflexed externally, forming the vitta into an 

 obtuse angled hook; midway between this hook-like deflexion and the 

 apex of the elytron is a large blotch longer than wide and lying at the 

 same angle as the bent end of the vitta; a marginal vitta on each 

 elytron distinctly shorter than the dorsal, and a small marginal spot 

 just opposite the ante apical dorsal blotch; legs and under side of body 

 black both clothed with pale hairs, the former closely beset with shorter 

 hairs, the latter more sparsely set with long hairs. 



Two specimens taken at Mt. Elende, Chiyaka, November, 1907, in 

 a large orchid. 



13. Mylabris (D.) omega Mars., M^m. Soc. roy. Sci. Lidge, 1872, p. 585, pi. VI, fig. 11. 



Loanda (Welwitsch), Huilla (Anchieta). 



14. Mylabris (D.) regis Thos., Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 6, XIX, 1897, p. 1897. 



Angola (Welwitsch), Gamba, March, 1908, 102 specimens (Well- 

 man). 



On the flowers of Tribulus zegheri. 

 Type in London, British Museum. 



15. Mylabris CD.) temporalis Wellm. spec. nov. 



Nigra, elongata subcylindrica, pilis argenteis hirta; capite prothora- 

 ceque nigris subtiliter punctulatis, argenteo-villosis , illo lata (tempora 

 inflata et rotundata), hoc medio fortiter foveolato; antennis articulis 

 2 primis nigris, reliquis obscure brunneis; elytris nigris, fortiter punc- 

 tulatis argenteo-villosis; vitta lata dorsali medium subattingente, altera 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 607 



marginali angusta medium attingente, macula media dorsali et fascia 

 irregulare inter medium et apicem (suturam et marginem attingens); 

 corpus infra et pedes nigra, nigro-sericea. 



Long. Corp. 15 mm. 



Lat. elytr. 4^ mm. 



Hah. Chiyaka, Angola (Africa) ; ab auctore collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Medium-sized species, black, rather densely clothed with longish 

 silvery hairs, which are longer on the head and thorax than on the 

 elytra. The head is very wide, being much wider than the thorax, 

 and in some specimens as wide as the elytra at their base, and with 

 the tempora much inflated making the head above the eyes as wide as 

 it is across the eyes themselves. Eyes not prominent. The head and 

 thorax are finely punctulate, the latter with a median fovea situate 

 somewhat in front of its posterior third. Antennoe with first two 

 joints black, the remainder being a very dark brown. Scutellum long 

 and narrow. Elytra black with yellow markings arranged as follows : 

 on each elytron a broad dorsal vitta (one-fourth as wide as the elytron) 

 not reaching to the middle of the el3rtron; another narrower marginal 

 vitta reaching fully to, or rather beyond, the middle; behind the apex 

 of the dorsal vitta and occasionally coalescing with it a large dorsal 

 spot, irregular in outline but always transverse; behind this spot, 

 midway between it and the apex of the elytron, an irregular yellow 

 band. The legs and abdomen are densely clothed with long silvery 

 hairs which are more abundant on the femora and tibiae. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12121, U. S. N. M. 



One hundred and two specimens taken in January, 1907 on Mal- 

 vaceae (Hibiscus and Malache spp.). The pattern of this species is 

 wonderfully stable showing almost no variation. 



Subgenus MYLABRIS Fabr. (sens, strict.). 



16. Mylabris (M.) andongoana Har., Col. Hefte, XVI, 1879, p. 138. 



Pungo Andongo, July (Hohmeyer). 



Type in Berhn, Koniglisches Museum. The pubescence of the legs 

 is in the type somewhat different from ordinary specimens. 



17. Mylabris (M.)atroohalybea Mars., Jorn.Sci.Math.Phys.Nat.Lisb.,VI,No.XXV,1879,p.57. 



Loanda (Welwitsch), Huilla (Lobo d'Avila). 



18. Mylabris (M.) benguelana Mars., ibid., p. 57. 

 Angola (Welwitsch), Benguella (Anchieta). 



19. Mylabris (M.) bicincta Mars., M^m. Soc. roy. Sci. Li^ge, 1872, p. 161, pi. V, fig. 60. 



Loanda (Welwitsch). 



This species was described from Lake N'gami. 




608 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



20. Mylabris (M. ) bifurcata Mars. , Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., VII , No. XXV., 1879, p.48. 



Capangombe (Anchieta). 



21. Mylabris (M.) bilineata Mars., ibid., p. 56. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



22. Mylabris (M.) bissexguttata Mars., ibid., p. 50. 



Humbe (Anchieta). 



23. Mylabris (M.) carinifrons Mars., ibid., p. 47. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



24. Mylabris (M.) cMsambensis Wellm., spec. nov. 



Nigra, magna, elongata, convexa, nigro-villosula; capite, prothora- 

 ceque crebre punctulatis; antennis nigris; elytris nigris, punctulatis, 

 macula magna juxtascutellare et altera minore humerali testaceis; medio 

 undulatim lateque testaceo-hifasciatis; corpus infra et pedes intermedii 

 posticique nigro-pubescentes; pedes antici dense argenteo-sericei. 



Long. Corp. 24 mm. 



Lat. elytr. 10^ mm. 



Hab. Chisamba, Bihe, Angola (Africa); a Doctore L. Cammack 

 collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Large species; head black, finely punctured, clothed with fine black 

 hairs which are fewer on the vertex; labrum emarginate, the margin 

 provided with a thick fringe of coarse testaceous hairs, its basal third 

 smooth, the apical two-thirds very closely, finely and regularly punc- 

 tured; eyes slightly reniform; antennoe black, with a tuft of coarse 

 black hairs on the anterior surface of the basal joint and a few scattered 

 black hairs on the next three joints; maxillary palpi large with apical 

 joint inflated and squarely truncate, both maxillary and labial palpi 

 with long black hairs on them ; thorax with punctuation and pubescence 

 like that of head, posterior margin elevated, two feeble impressions, 

 one just in front of the posterior margin, and the other just in front of 

 the posterior third of the thorax, both in the median fine; scutellum 

 small, triangular with the posterior angle truncate; elytra black, with 

 a large juxta-scutellar straw-colored spot, not quite reaching the 

 sutural margin, on each elytron; nearly opposite to this, but rather 

 more in front, a smaller spot on the humeral margin; two wide, wavy 

 bands of the same color dividing the elytra into three nearly equal 

 parts, but placed nearer together than from the basal or apical borders 

 of the elytra; legs black, densely clothed with short black hairs and 

 some longer ones, the front legs very closely covered on their internal 

 surface with short pale hairs and in the males provided with very long 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 609 



black hairs at the apex of the tibise and sides of the tarsi ; under surface 

 of body black with longish black pubescence. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12122, U. S. N. M. 



Eight specimens sent by Dr. Cammack, taken on "fohage." One 

 of the individuals is a monstrosity, having the secondary bifurcation 

 of the inner front claws reduced to a tiny spur. 



This species in its coloration and facies presents a startling resem- 

 blance to an oriental species (ilf. cichorii Linn.), but the striking- 

 differences in the mouth parts readily separate it. 



25. Mylabris (M.) dentata Oliv., Encyc. m(5th., VIII, p. 97. 



Mylahris tortuosa Erichs., Wiegm. Arch. Naturg., I, 1843, p. 256. 



Angola (Erichson), Loanda, Benguella (Marseul), Icolo, Loanda 

 (Welwitsch), Loanda (Hohmeyer), Humbe, Cabinda (Anchieta), 

 Gamba, March, 1908, 84 specimens (Wellman). 



This species was first described from Sierra Leone. 



26. Mylabris (M.) dicincta Bert., Nov. Act. Bonon., X., 1849, p. 419. 



Mylabris bizonata Gerst., Monatsb. Berl. Acad., 1854, p. 694. 



Mylabris dicincta var. Buqueti Mars., Mem. Soc. ro3^ Sci. Li^ge, 1872, p. 408. 



Zonabris dicincta var. occidentalis Har., Col. Hefte, XVI, 1879, p. 135. 



Benguella (Marseul), Angola (Welw^itsch), Capangombe (An- 

 chieta), Gamba, 60 specimens, on flowers of Tribulus zegheri, March, 

 1908 (Wellman). 



The typical form was first described from Mozambique. The 

 Angolan form with juxta-scutellar and humero-marginal eljrtral spots 

 seems to be a distinctively western race and is probably a true subspecies. 

 In all my specimens the last three joints of the palpi are yellow. 



A specimen of dicincta probably named by Bertolini and designated 

 as a "type" is in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



27. Mylabris (M.) discrepens Mars., Jorn.Sci.Math.Phys.Nat.Lisb.,VII,No.XXV,p.46. 



Loanda (Welwitsch). 



28. Mylabris (M.) dispar Mars., M^m. Soc. roy. Sci. Liege, 1872, p. 435, pi. IV, fig. 22a. 



Ambriz (Marseul). 



29. Mylabris (M.) erichsoni Gemm., Col. Hefte, VI, 1870, p. 123. 



. Mylabris diiodecim guttata Erichs., Wiegm. Arch. Naturg., I, 1843, p. 257 (nee 

 Germar) . 



Angola (Erichson). 



30. Mylabris (M.) flavoguttata Reiche, Galin. Voy. Abyss., 1850, p. 380, tab. 23, fig. 6. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



A species described from Abyssinia. 



31. Mylabris (M.) gamicola Mars., Mem. Soc. roy. Sci. Li^ge, 1872, p. 436, pi. IV., fig. 23a. 



Humbe (Anchieta). 

 Described from Lake N'gami. 




610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



32. Mylabris (M.) holosericea Klug, Erm. Reise, 1835, p. 41. 



Loanda (Welwitsch). 



Described from Guinea. It is suggested by Mr. Champion (Mem. 

 Soc. Ent. Belg., 1899, p. 165) that villosa Fahr. (Ofv. Vet.-Ak. Fork., 

 XXVII, p. 345) from ''Caffraria" is a variety of this species. 



33. Mylabris (M.) hybrida Mars., Mem. Soc. roy. Sci. Liege, 1872, p. 418, pi. IV. fig 12. 



Capangombe (Anchieta). 

 Described from Port Natal. 



34. Mylabris (M.) Jacob Mars., Jom. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., V, No. XXV, 1879 p. 53. 



Loanda (Welwitsch), Capangombe (Anchieta). 



35. Mylabris (M.) lactimala Mars., ibid., p. 44. 



Humbe (Lobo d'Avila). 



36. Mylabris (M.) lanigera Mars., ibid., p. 49. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



37. Mylabris (M.) liquida Erichs., Wiegm. Arch. Naturg., I, 1843, p. 255. 



Angola (Erichson). Loanda, Pungo Andongo (Hohmeyer), Cabinda 

 (Anchieta), Angola (Welwitsch), Gamba, March, 1908, 7 specimens 

 (Wellman). 



On the flowers of Trihulus zegheri. 



My specimens differ from typical examples in that the basal fascia 

 of the elytra is not humerally subinterrupted. 



38. Mylabris (M.) muata Har., Mitth. Munch. Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 109. 



Angola — "aus dem inneren" — (Pogge). 



This species was first described, probably from Kabebe, now in the 

 Congo Free State, as a Bruchus, but was subsequently {Col. Hefte, 

 1879, p. 136) removed by its author from that genus and placed in 

 Mylabris, where it conflicts with Mylabris muata Har., Mitth. Munch. 

 Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 109. I accordingly propose for this last species, 

 which is not mentioned by Mr. Champion in his "List of the Can- 

 tharidae Supplementary to the 'Munich' Catalogue" (Mem. Soc. Ent. 

 Belg., 1899, pp. 154-206), the following designation: 

 Mylabris (M.) haroldi Wellm. nom. nov. 



The type of mvxita in the Berlin, Konigliches Museum, has "Regn, 

 Lunda" on the locahty label. 



39. Mylabris (M.) myops Chevr., Guer. Ic. regn. anim., p. 133, tab. 35, fig. 4. 



Cabo Negro (Welwitsch). 



Described from the Cape of Good Hope. 



Among my specimens (not collected by myself, but undoubtedly 

 from Angola) and also among those of Welwitsch in the British Museum 

 I find some individuals which differ considerably from the type, as 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 611 



was first pointed out by Marseul {Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lish., 

 1879, p. 45) and which may be briefly described as follows : 



Mylabris (M.) myops var. welwitschi Wellm. var. nov. 



Macula flava hasali elytrorum nulla. Typ. in coll. mea. 



There are some other points of difference, among which may be 

 mentioned the rather coarser and more irregular punctuation of the 

 head and thorax in the case of the 9 9 , and the greater comparative 

 length of the third joint of the antennae. 



40. Mylabris (M.) oculata Thunb., Diss. Nov. Ins. Spec, VI, 1791, p. 114. 



Caniharis bifasciata Degeer., Ins., VII, p. 647, tab. 48, fig. 13. 

 Angola (Welwitsch), Humbe (Anchieta). 

 First described from the Cape. 



Mylabris (M.) oculata var. moufleti Mars., Mim. Soc. roy. Sci. Li^ge, 1872, p. 404. 



Benguella (Marseul), Hiiilla (Lobo d'Avila), Caconda (Anchieta), 

 Bihe (Capello and Ivens). 



Mylabris (M.) oculata var. ophthalmica Mars., ibid., p. 404. 



Angola (Welwitsch), Benguella, Capangombe, Humbe (Anchieta). 

 Chiyaka, January, 1908, one specimen, Gamba, March, 1908, 3 speci- 

 mens (Wellman). 



Described from the Cape. 



41. Mylabris (M.)opacula Mars., Jorn.Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., VII, No.XXV,1879,p.45. 



Duque de Braganga (Marseul), Bihe (Capello and Ivens). 



42. Mylabris (M.) palliata Mars., M^m. Soc. roy. Sci. Li^ge, 1872, p. 432, pi. IV, fig. 21a. 



Humbe (Anchieta). 

 Described from "Caffraria." 



43. Mylabris (M.) paulinoi Mars., Jorn.Sci. Math. Phys.Nat. Lisb., VII, No. XXV,1879,p. 48. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



44. Mylabris (M-) phelopsis Mars, ibid., p. 48. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



45. Mylabris (M.) pluvialis Wellm. spec. nov. 



Nigra, ohlongo-ovata, postice paulo latior, parum convexa, nigro- 

 villosula; capite prothoraceque crehre punctulatis; antennis flavis, articu- 

 lis cluobus primis nigris; elytris nigris, punctulatis, macula magna 

 juxtascutellare et altera parva humerali flavis; medio undulatim flavo- 

 fasciatis, postico guttis dvMbus aurantiacis; corpus infra et pedes nigris. 



Long. corp. 18 mm. 



Lat. elytr. 8 mm. 



Hab. Gamba, Angola (Africa) ; ah auctore collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Medium-sized species; head black, rather closely punctured with 




612 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Uec, 



shallow punctures, sparsely clothed with small black hairs; eijes large, 

 almost hemispherical; antennce with fii-st two joints black, 3d to 11th 

 light orange; thorax black, closely punctured, clothed with a few black 

 hairs ; scuteUum very small, hardly visible, with a few fine black hairs ; 

 elytra black, punctured throughout not very closely with small, rather 

 deep punctures; there are also some small, fine black hairs over the 

 whole elytra which are marked with a median, yellow, transverse band 

 and also spots anterior and posterior to it, these markings arranged as 

 follows : on each elytron near the base is a large, almost circular bright 

 j^ellow spot; behind this is the irregular, rather wide, median trans- 

 verse yellow band which would lie in front of a transverse line which 

 might be drawn to divide the elytron into two halves ; about midway 

 between this band and the posterior margin of the elytron are two 

 orange-red spots, nearly round; the larger of these, which is smaller 

 than the basal spots above mentioned, is near the sutural margin of 

 the elytron, almost on a line with the basal spot; the other (hardly 

 half as large) lies opposite at the outer margin of the elytron ; basally 

 at the extreme humeral margin of the elytron is a yellow spot, longer 

 than wide, reaching to the margin of the elytron and narrowly con- 

 nected with the median yellow band; legs black, blackly hair}^, the 

 front femora and tibise covered with short yellowish silky hairs on their 

 inner surface. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12123, U. S. N. M. 



In some specimens the basal spots (both juxta-scutellar and humeral) 

 show a tendency to become confluent with the median fascia. 



This species is very prolific and appears in great numbers during 

 the rains. In March, 1908, at Gamba, Angola, I collected 194 speci- 

 mens in a few hours. Its principal food plant is Tribulus zegheri. 



46. Mylabris (M.) rufitarsis Mars., Jom. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat . Lisb.,VII, No. XXV, 1879, p. 52. 



Loanda (Welwitsch), HuiUa (Anchieta). 



47. Mylabris (M.'> senegalensis Voigts, Wien. Ent. Zeit., XXI, p. 178. 



Mylabris hifasciata Oliv., Ent., Ill, 47, p. 5, tab. 1, fig. 10 (nee Degeer). 

 Angola (Welwitsch), Angola — "aus dem inneren" — (Pogge). 

 Described from Senegal, also a variety (var. conjuncta Voigts, Wien. 

 Ent. Zeit., XX, p. 217) from Dar-es-Salaam. 



48. Mylabris (M.) sibylae Wellm. spec. nov. 



Nigra, statura magna sat rohusta, nigro-pubescens; capite {antenna 

 articulis 1, 2 nigris, 2, 3 fulvis, reliquis flavis; palpis hrunneis) pro- 

 thoraceque nigris subtiliter punctulatis, nigro-villosis, hoc longitudine 

 paulo latior, medio leviter bi-impresso; elytris nigris, dense subtiliter 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 613 



punctatis, maculis 2 (juxta-scuteUare et humerali) obscure aurantiacis^ 

 fascisque 2 (prima anteriore ad medium Integra, secunda inter medium 

 et apicem interrupta) obscure rufo-aurantiacis ornatis. Corpus infra 

 et pedes nigra, nigro-pubescentia. 



Long. Corp. 24 mm. 



Lot. elytr. 13 mm. 



Hah. Gamba, Angola (Africa); ah auctore coUecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Large black species, rather robust, clothed with very short black 

 pubescence, which is longer on the head, thorax and abdomen. The 

 head and thorax are feebly punctulate, the latter doubly though feebly 

 impressed. Eyes large, not very convex. Antennce with the first two 

 joints black, the second and third fulvous and the remainder light 

 orange-yellow. The palpi are brownish. Scutellum very small, 

 triangular. Elytra closely and finely punctate, each elytron with two 

 spots, juxta-scutellar and humeral, and two fasciae, the first in front of 

 the middle, the second about midway betweexi the median band and 

 the apex of the elytron. The two spots and the median band are dark 

 orange, the posterior band (which is sometimes interrupted) dark 

 orange-red. Legs and body black, clothed with black hairs, the inter- 

 nal surface of the front legs covered with short pale silky hairs. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12124, U. S. N. M. 



Twenty-four specimens taken in March, 1908, on the flowers of 

 Trihulus zegheri. 



49. Mylabris (M.) tincta Erichs., Wiegm. Arch. Naturg., 1843, I, p. 256. 



Angola (Erichson), Angola (Marseul), Angola (Welwitsch). 

 Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



50. Mylabris (M.) tindila Wellm. spec. nov. 



Nigra, parva, nigro-puhescens; caput dense puntulatum, nigro-viUo- 

 sum, antennis flavis, articulis duohus primis nigris; thorax parvus^ 

 dense punctidatus, nigro-villosus, latitudine longior, postice longitudi- 

 naliter foveolatus; elytra dense suhtiliter punctata, liniis dorsalihus 3 

 distinctis, nigro-pubescentia; fasciis tribus uiululatis -flavis suturam 

 attingentibus; corpus infra et pedes nigra. 



Long. Corp. 12 mm. 



Lat. elytr. 5 mm. 



Hah. Gamba, Angola (Africa) ; ah auctore collecta. 



Typ. in- coll. mea. 



A rather small species; head densely punctulate, blacklj^ pubescent 

 with a longish vertical smooth boss between the eyes. Eyes promi- 




614 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



nent. Antennce with first two joints black, the next three dark yellow, 

 the remainder light yellow. The palpi are black, hairy. Thorax 

 small, narrow, longer than wide, conical in front, densely punctulate, 

 with a small longitudinal median fovea at its posterior third. Scutel- 

 lum small. Elytra black, finely and closely punctured, with three 

 yellow bands placed much as in M. liquida Erichs. except that the basal 

 fascia has no tendency to become interrupted. The three longitudinal 

 veins or lines on the elytra are very distinct. Legs and under side of 

 body black, blackly pubescent. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12125, U. S. N. M. 



Two specimens taken March, 1908, on the flowers of Trihulus zegheri. 

 The specific name is a Bantu word meaning rare. 



51 Mylabris (M.) tricolor Gerst., Peter's Reis. n. Mozamb., (1862), p. 297. pi. 17, fig. 11. 



Humbe (Anchieta). 



Described from Mozambique. 



Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



52. Mylabris (M.) trispila Mars., Jorn.Sci.Math.Phys. Nat.Lisb.,VII, No.XXV,p.55, 1879. 



Loanda (Welwitsch), Huilla (Anchieta). 



53. Mylabris (M.) tristigma Gerst., Monatsb. Bed. Acad., 1854, p. 694. 



Described from Mozambique. The Angolan examples may be 

 regarded as at least representing a distinct western geographical race 

 which may be described as follows : 



Mylabris (M.) tristigma tribuli Wellm. subsp. nov. 



Nigra, angusta, valde elongata; capite crebre punctato, nigro-villoso; 

 antennis articulis primis duobus fulvis, reliquis flavis. Labrum fulvum; 

 palpis inflatis, truncatis, flavis; thorace crebre punctato, longitudine latiore 

 medio impresso, postice elevate. Elytra flava, fortiter punctata, nigro- 

 pubescentia; margine basalt maculis duabus antemedium {altera pone 

 suturam, altera majore laterali) fascia submediana apiceque nigris. Corpus 

 infra et pedes {tarsi primi postici excepti) nigra, nigro-pubescentia. 



Long. Corp. 20 mm. 



Lat. elytr. 5 mm. 



Hab. Gamba, Angola (Africa) ; ab auctore collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



This insect, which quite possibly represents a new species, is described 

 for the present as a subspecies of tristigma Gerst., from which it differs 

 inter alia by the longer and narrower body, the shape of the head and 

 eyes, the much larger black spots on the anterior part of the elytra, 

 the different marking of the posterior portion, which shows a complete 

 yellow band instead of the two yellow spots on a broad black apical 

 band, etc. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 615 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12126, U. S. N. M. 

 Three specimens taken at Gamba, on flowers of Tribulus zegheri, 

 March, 1908. 



The type of tristigma is in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



54. Mylabris (M.) tristriguttata Mars., Jom. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., VII, No. XXV, 



1879, p. 55. 

 Mylabris " ristriguttata" Mars., Champion, Soc. Ent. Belg. Ann., XLIII, 

 1899, p. 165 (ex error). 



Loanda (Welwitsch). 



Subgenus CEROCTIS Mars. 



55. Mylabris (C.) amphibia Mars., M^m. Soc. roy. Sci. Li^ge, 1872, p. 559, pi. V, fig. 70o. 



Angola (Marseul). 



56. Mylabris (C.) angolensis Gemm., Col. Hefte, VI, 1870, p. 123. 



Mylabris phalerata Erichs., Wiegm. Arch. Naturg., I, 1843, p. 256. 



Angola (Erichson), Angola (Welwitsch). 



Type in Berlin, Konighches Museum, marked "Angola Schonh." 



57. Mylabris (C.) bohemanni Mars., M^m. Soc. roy. Sci. Liege, 1872, p. 198, pi. V, fig. 69. 



Capangombe (Anchieta). 

 Described from "Caffraria." 



58. Mylabris (C.) exolamationis Mars., ibid., p. 562, pi. V, fig. 72a. 



"Amberix" (= ? Ambriz) (Marseul), Bengo (Welwitsch), Gamba, 

 March, 1908, on flowers of Tribulus zegheri, 16 specimens (Wellman). 



59. Mylabris (C.) interna Har., Mitth. Munch. Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 108. 



Angola (Welwitsch) (a specimen in the British Museum labeled 

 as Coryna lata Reiche), Angola (Mechow), Pungo Andongo, end of 

 July (PoGGE and Hohmeyer), Chiyaka, 1 specimen on grass December, 

 1906, 1 specimen on Geigeria wellmani September, 1907, 20 other 

 specimens on Compositse chiefly Geigeria and Othonnaspp. (Wellman). 



Described from the interior of "Guinea" and placed by its author 

 in the genus Bruchus. C. vespina Thos. (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 6, 

 XIX, p. 501) from east Africa has been sunk as a synonym of the 

 species under discussion, but a series of 40 specimens from the Congo, 

 now in the United States National Museum, together with my own 

 examples, show that vespina, the type of which is in the British Museum, 

 should be retained as a distinct and stable variety of interna, the front 

 brown fascia of the latter being quite constantly reduced to two dots 

 in the former. In the description vespina is not compared with 

 interna but with yerhuryi Gahan, from which it differs not especially 

 (as is stated by Thomas) in the elytral banding, but in the color and 

 structure of the antennae (the type of vespina has no antennae) which 

 are very different. 




616 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



The type of interna is in Berlin, Konigliches Museum, and has 

 "Regn. Lunda" on the locahty lal^el. 



60. Mylabris (C.) serricornis Gerst., Peter's Reis., 1862, p. 300, pi. 18, fig. 1. 



Loanda, Huilla (Welwitsch), Humbe (-Anchieta). 



This fine species was first described from Mozambique. In the type 

 (in Berlin, Konighches Museum, marked ''Mozamb. Peters") the legs 

 are rather less hairy than in ordinary specimens. 



61. Mylabris (C.) trifurca Gerst.. Monatsb. Berl. Acad., 1854, p. 694. 



Chiyaka, 1 specimen taken digging in native path, 1 specimen in 

 large orchid, October, 1907, 2 other specimens, one on flowers of Faroa 

 wellmani and one flying, December, 1907 (Wellmax). 



Described from Mozambique. 



Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museum marked "Sena, Peters." 



Genus ELETICA Lacord., Gen. Col., V, p. 672. 



62. Eletioa colorata Har., Mitth. Munch. Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 108. 



Angola — "aus dem inneren" — (Pogge), Chiyaka, November, 1907, 

 taken flying in bright sunshine after a rain, 2 specimens (Wellmax). 



Described from the interior of Guinea. Kolbe {Col. aus Afrika, 

 I, p. 178f.) considers hicolor Champ. {Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1890, p. 

 645, tab. 56, fig. 8) from Central Africa as a synonym of this species. 



The type of colorata is in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



63. Eletioa Iseviceps Kolbe, Ent. Nachr. XII, p. 299. 



Chiyaka, November, 1907 (Wellmax). A single specimen wiiich 

 lit on my hat in bright sunshine. 



Described from the Congo. This species is very near rufa ¥., if 

 indeed it can be separated from it. 



The type of Iceviceps is in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



64. Eletica ornatipennis Luc, Bull. Soc. Ent. Fr., 1887, p. XXVII. 



Huilla (Campana). 



65. Eletica rufa Fabr., Syst. El., II, p. 78. 



Lytta hipustulata Fabr., loc. cit., p. 78. 



Eletica cardinalis Per., Trans. S. Afr. Phil. Soc, IV. p. 136. 



Angola (Welwitsch), Angola (Monteiro), Angola (Axchieta), 

 Chiyaka, January, 1908, twelve specimens (Wellmax). Always 

 taken about 9-11 A.M., flying, or rarely crawling, in bright sunshine 

 after a rain. One specimen also lit on my hat. 



First described from Senegal. This is an extraordinarily variable 

 species, ranging from light red to coal black, some individuals even 

 having the elytra pale yellow with black tips. I suspect that some of 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 617 



the black forms described under other names are nothing but variations 

 of rufa, but as yet have been unable to examine the types. 



66. Eletica stuhlmanni Kolbe, Stett. Ent. Zeit., LV, p. 183. 



Chiyaka, November, 1907, three specimens (Wellman). Brought 

 to me by my servant. 



Described from Lake Albert Nyanza. It is probable that my 

 specimens represent a new form, very closely allied to stuhlmanni, 

 but the specimeas are in such bad condition that I cannot separate 

 them from Kolbe's species, without further material. 



The type of stuhlmanni, is in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



Tribe LYTTINI. 

 Genus LYTTA Fabr., Syst. Ent., p. 260. 



Cantharis Linn., Act. Ups., 1736, p. 19 (pars). 

 Lagorina Muls. et Rey., Ins. Canth., 1858, p. 150. 



67. Lytta amethystina Miikl., Act. Soc. Sci. Fenn., 1875, p. 602. 



Chiyaka, running about on ground in company with L. signifrons 

 Fahr., 56 specimens (Wellman), 

 Described from Senegal. 



68. Lytta atrocoerulea Har., Mitth. Mtinch. Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 108. 



Angola — ''aus dem inneren" — (Pogge). 

 Described from the interior of Guinea. 

 Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



69. Lytta buqueti Makl., Act. Soc. Sci. Fenn., 1875, p. 602. 



Humbe (Anchieta). 

 Described from Senegal. 



70. Lytta chalybea Erichs., Wiegm. Arch. Naturg., I, 1843, p. 258. 



Cantharis seyninitens Mars., Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb. VII No 

 XXV, 1879, p. 60. 



Angola (Erichson), Angola (Welwitsch), Loanda (Hohmeyer), 

 Angola (MoNTEiRo), Gamba, March, 1908, on flowers of Tribulus 

 zegheri, 146 specimens (Wellman). 



A comparison of the material in Berlin and London with my series 

 shows that Erichson's and Marseul's species are the same. 



The type of chalybea is in Berlin, K5nigliches Museum. 



71. Lytta cinctifrons Mars., loc. cit., p. 61. 

 Humbe (Anchieta). 



72. Lytta episcopalis Har., Mitth. Munch. Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 108. 



Angola— "aus dem inneren" — (Pogge). 

 Described from the interior of Guinea. 

 Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 




618 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



73. Lytta hemicrania Mars., Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., VII, No. XXV, 1879, p. 61. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



74. Lytta laminioornis Fairm., Notes Leyd. Mus., X, p. 270. 



Humpata (Kellen). 



75. Lytta maculifrons Makl., Act. Soc. Sci. Fenn., 1878, p. 608. 



Angola (Welwitsch), Angola (Monteiro), Hiimbe (Anchieta). 



76. Lytta melanocephala Fabr., Syst. El., II, p. 77. 



Lytta melanocephala var. bilineata Haag-Rut., Deutsch. Ent. Zeit., ISSO, p. 68. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



Described from Guinea. Hoag-Rutenberg's Lytta bilineata from 

 Senegal is here treated as only a variation of melanocephala Fabr., 

 but it is probable that the examination of more material would show 

 it to be a constant and distinct geographical subspecies. 



77. Lytta metasternalis Fairm., Notes Leyd. Mus., X, p. 269. 



Humpata (Kellen). 



78. Lytta myrmido Fairm., Pet. Nouv. Ent., II, p. 93. 



Angola (Fairmaire). 



79. Lytta notifrons Mars., Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., VII, No. XXV, 1879, p. 59. 



Humbe (Anchieta). 



80. Lytta peotoralis Gerst., Monatsb. Berl. Acad., 1854, p. 695. 



Gamba, March, 1908, 56 specimens (Wellman); never seen feeding 

 but always running about restlessly on the ground like Carabidse. 



The type of pectoralis Gerst. is in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



Described from Mozambique. Fairmaire (Faun, et Flor. Carnal.^ 

 Col., 1882, p. 84) has described another insect under the same name. 

 For this last species I would propose 

 Lytta rubropeotus Wellm. nom. nov. 



81. Lytta signifrons F&hr., Ofv. Vet.-Ak. Forh., XXVII, p. 352. 



Lytta Coelestina Haag-Rut., Deutsch. Ent. Zeit., 1880, p. 61. 

 Angola (Welwitsch), Chiyaka, December, 1908, running on ground 

 in company with L. amethystina Makl., 28 specimens (Wellm.\n). 

 Described from "Caffraria." 



82. Lytta Strigida Mars., Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., VII, No. XXV, 1879, p. 61. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



83. Lytta subrugxilosa Miikl., Act. Soc. Sci. Fenn., X, p. 606. 



Humbe (Anchieta). 



84. Lytta thoracica Erichs., Wiegm. Arch. Naturg., I, 1843, p. 2.58. 



Angola (Erichson), Gamba, March, 1908, on flowers oi^Trihulus 

 zegheri, 10 specimens (Wellm.\n). 




lf)08.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 619 



My examples show that the puncturing of the thorax is variable and 

 not always so reduced in the c? cJ' as Erichson thought. 



85. Lytta vellioata Erichs., ibid., p. 258. 



Angola (Erichson). 



Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



Genus EPICAUTA Redt. Faun. Aust., I, p. 631. 

 Isopentra Reitt., Wien. Ent. Zeit., XXXIV, p. 195. 



86. Epicauta canesoens Klug, Erman. Reis., 1835, p. 42. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 

 Described from Guinea. 



87. Epicauta prolifica Wellm. spec. nov. 



Nigra (caput rufum) lata, oblonga, pube densa depressa alba vestita; 

 caput magnum, subpunctidatum, antennoB filiformes; thorax qvxidratus 

 longitudine latior, medio leviter sulcatus, crebre punctatus; elytra crebre 

 punctata, albo-marginata, medio lineaque dorsali longitudinali albis; 

 corpus infra pedesque dense albo-vestita; pedes postici valde elongati. 



Long. carp. 12 mm. 



Lat. elytr. 6 mm. 



Hab. Chiyaka, Angola (Africa); ab auctore collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Avery short robust species; black, clothed with a dense covering of 

 closely lying white hairs, giving the insect a gray appearance. Head 

 large, red (a frontal spot, the mouth parts and antennse are black), 

 feebly punctulate, clothed with short white hairs (very small and sparse 

 on the vertex); eyes long, narrow and oblique; antennce filiform, first 

 joint long, second joint constricted before the base, third joint twice as 

 long as second and much longer than fourth. Thorax quadrate, wider 

 than long, with a very faint median longitudinal groove, closely and 

 finely punctured. Scutellum small, triangular. Elytra also closely and 

 finely punctured, with a white dorsal vitta (formed by a thicker 

 arrangement of the hairs of the elytron) reaching from the base to 

 almost the apex of the elytron; a white margin to the elytron formed 

 in the same way. The legs and under surface of the body are closely 

 covered with fine white hairs. There is a concave sericious spot on 

 the inner surface of the front femora and tibise. The hind legs are very 

 long. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12127, U. S. N. M. 



An interesting variety also occurs which may be briefly indicated 

 as follows : 




620 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Epicauta canescens var. elunda Wellm. var. nov. 



Vitta dorsali elytrorum nulla. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



The absence of the most prominent marking gives the insect a strik- 

 ingly different aspect. The name is a local word referring to the place 

 in which the type of the variety was found. 



Seventy-eight specimens of this species taken in November, 1907, 

 and February, 1908. It is usually found wandering aimlessly about 

 on the ground, but I have taken it eating potato tops and also bean 

 leaves. It is often mentioned by the natives as destroying their crops. 

 I once found them eating the young tender sprouts of a coarse branching 

 grass {Eragrostis sp.). 



Genus (ENAS Latr., Hist. Nat. Crust. Ins., Ill, 1802, p. 186. 

 X8. (EnaS bicolor Cast., Hist. Nat. Ins., II, p. 271. 



Angola (Bitta). 



89. (Enas melanura Erichs., Wiegm. Arch. Naturg., I, 1843, p. 2.59. 



Angola (Erichsox). 



Genus'SYBARIS Steph., 111. Brit. Ent., V, 1832, p. 70. 

 Prionotus KoU. et Redt., Hiig. Kasch., IV, p. 356. 

 Lacordaire {Gen. Col., V, p. 683) suggests regarding the type (said 

 to have been found in England) of this genus that it "pourrait bien 

 etre d'origine exotique." I have examined the insect (*S. immunis 

 Steph.) in the British Museum and believe that this must certainly 

 have been the case. 



90. Sybaris flaveola Mars., Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., VII, No. XXV, 1879, p. 62. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



91. Sybaris picta Mars., ibid., p. 62. 



Humbe (Anchieta). 



Genus SITARIS Latr., Hist. Nat. Crust. Ins., Ill, 1802, p. 187. 



Necydalis Fabr. 

 Criolis Muls. 

 Stenoria Muls. 



92. Sitaris hilaris Mars., Jom. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., VII, No. XXV, 1879, p. 64. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



Genus ZONITIS Fabr., Syst. Ent., 1775, p. 126. 



Apalus Oliv., Encyc. nieth., I, p. 165. 



Megatrachelus Mot.sch., Bull. Mosc, 1845, p. 



Stenodera Eschsch., Mem. Acad. Imp. Sci. Pet., VI, 1818, p. 469. 



Zonitides Abeille de Per., BvUl. Soc. Toul., XIV, 1880, p. 253. 



Tmesidera Westw., Guer., Mag. Zool. Ins., 1841, tab. 85 {pars). 



Euzonitis Sem., Hor. Soc. Ent. Ross., XXVII, 1893, p. 276. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 621 



Subgenus 1. ZONITIS Fabr.. loc. cit., p. 126 (sens. sir.). 

 Subgenus 2. NEMOGNATHA lUig. Mag. Ins., VI, 1807, p. 333. 



Leptopalpus Guer., Icon. Ins., p. 136. 

 Subgenus 3. GNATHIUM Kirby, Trans. Linn. Soc. Lond., XII, p. 425. 



I propose to follow Casey {Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., VI, 1891, p. 170) 

 in treating Nemognatha and Gnathium under Zonitis. This will necessi- 

 tate changes in synonymy (principally of the American species) which 

 need not be entered into at this time. The elongated outer lobe of the 

 maxillae is the only real character separating the two first mentioned 

 groups from Zonitis proper, and this character fails in several American 

 species and also in the new species of Nemognatha described in the 

 present paper. The differences between Nemognatha and Gnathium 

 are even slighter, the antennal and thoracic characters often leaving 

 one in doubt as to which group an insect should go. Nevertheless the 

 divisions are useful to a certain extent and I do not follow Casey in 

 sinking the names entirely, but suggest that they both be considered 

 as subspecies of Zonitis. 



The following artificial table shows how the main characters run 

 through the three groups of the genus : 



..4. — Palpi not elongated. 



Antennae not thickened at tips, . . Zonitis {sens. str.). 



A A. — Palpi elongated, the maxillary palpi often forming a sucking 



proboscis. 



a. — Antennae not thickened at tips, . . . Nemognatha. 



aa. — ^Antennae thickened at tips, Gnathium. 



Subgenus ZONITIS Fabr. {sens. str.). 

 93. Zonitis (Z.) antennalis Wellm. spec. nov. 



Gracilis, lutea; antennce, pectiis et pedes {tibiis exceptis) nigra; capite 

 prothoraceque valde elongatis, angustis, subtiliter punctulatis, hoc tri- 

 impresso {impressionihus hand profundis); antennis fortiter serratis; 

 palpis nigris, apice oblique truncatis. Elytra dense subtiliter punctata, 

 submedio nigro-fasciata. Pectus, pedes et abdomen pallido-sericea. 



Long. corp. 12 mm. 



Lat. elytr. 4^ mm. 



Hab. Chiyaka, Angola (Africa); ab auctore collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



A striking species both from its form and coloration. Luteous except 

 the mouth parts, antennae, breast and legs which are black, the tibiae 

 having the upper portion also luteous. Head and thorax long and 

 40 




622 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



narrow, finely pimctulate, the latter with three shallow impressions. 

 Labrum luteoiis provided with a fringe of strong yellow hairs. The 

 antennce are strongly serrate. Eyes strongly reniform. Palpi black 

 with apices obliquely truncate. Elytra closely and finely punctured 

 and ornamented with a broad black band somewhat in front of their 

 middles. Breast, legs and abdomen with pale silky hairs. 



One specimen, November, 1907. 

 94. Zonitis (Z.) prionocera Wellm. spec nov. 



Caput, prothorax, scutellum et abdomen lutea; antennce, elytra, pectus 

 et pedes nigra; capite prothoraceque elongatis, angustis, sparsim punc- 

 tulatis; antennis nigris, serratis; articulis 1, 2 nitidis; elytris dense 

 suhtiliter punctatis, albo-suhpubescentihus. Pedes nigri; tibiis parte 

 superiore luteis. Pedes et abdomen pallido-sericea. 

 Long. Corp. 10 mm. 

 Lat. elytr. 5 mm. 



Hab. Chiyaka, Angola (Africa) ; ab auctore collecta. 

 Typ. in coll. mea. 



Graceful species; head, thorax, scutellum and abdomen luteous; 

 antennae, elytra, breast and legs (except the upper portion of the 

 tibise) black. Head and thorax long, narrow, rather finely punctured. 

 Eijes strongly reniform, antennce serrate, first 2 joints very shining, 

 sparsely punctulate, rest dull and clothed with microscopic hairs; 

 3d joint shorter than 4th; scutellum very finely punctulate and with 

 microscopic hairs. Elytra shining, irregularly and rather finely punc- 

 tured. Legs black, closely punctulate, upper f of tibiae luteous. 

 Breast and abdomen punctulate, sparsely covered with microscopic 

 hairs. 



One specimen taken in November, 1907. 



Subgenus NEMOGNATHA Illig. 



95. Zonitis (N.) angolensis Har., Col. Heft, XVI, 1879, p. 142. 



" Wahrscheinlich von Loanda oder von Pungo Andongo (Hoh- 

 meyer)." (Harold.) 



Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



96. Zonitis (N.) annulioornis Mars., Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., VII, No. XXV, p. 65. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



97. Zonitis (N.) cioonia Mars., ibid., p. 66. 



Mossamedes (Anchieta). 



98. Zonitis (N.) posoka Wellm. spec nov. 



Parva; caput, pectus, scutellum et pedes nigra; thorax et abdomen 

 lutea; elytra viridi-ccerulea; capite suUiliter punctulato; antennis fili- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 623 



formibus; palpis plus minusve elongatis {sed palpis maxillaribus pro- 

 hoscidem non formantibus) totis nigris, albo-pubescentibus; labro albo- 

 villoso; thorace luteo, lata, sparsim punctulato; elytris dense punctulatis; 

 nigro-sybpubescentibus. Pectus et pubes nigra, albo-sericea; pedes 

 postici valde elongati. 



Long. Corp. 9 mm. 



Lat. elytr. 4 mm. 



Hab. Chiyaka, Angola (Africa) ; ab auctore collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Small, elegant species; head and thorax broad, rather coarsely and 

 sparsely punctured, with pale microscopic hairs. Antennce filiform, 

 first three joints of about equal length. Scutellurn very finely punc- 

 tulate. Elytra more finely and closely punctured than head and thorax. 

 Breast and abdomen very feebly punctulate, covered with short fine, 

 pale hairs; femora with similar hairs; tibiae and tarsi with coarse short 

 black hairs, thickly set. 



One specimen taken in November, 1907. The specific name is a 

 local Bantu word meaning beautiful. 



99. Zonitis (N .) scapularis Mars. , Jom. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., VII, No. XXV, 1879, p. 67. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



Genus DERIDEA Westw., Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1875, p. 226. 



? Iselma Haag.-Rut., Deutsch. Ent. Zeit., XXIII, 2, 1879, p. 401. 



Westwood in founding this genus referred it with an interrogation 

 to the Helopida}, remarking in his diagnosis " unguibus-simplicibus." 

 Fairmaire also {Ann. Soc. Ent. Fr., 1891, p. 265) says of " Doridea (sic) 

 Westw." that while it "rappelle au premier bord, certaines especes 

 du genre Nemognatha," still "il en differe par les crochets des tarses 

 simples." Thomas {Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1897, p. 389) has pointed 

 out that the claws are divided. The only properly generic character 

 given by Haag-Rutenberg for his genus Iselma is that the claws are 

 non-pectinated, and this character is shared by Deridea. The diag- 

 noses of both genera come very near to Zonitis, with the exception of 

 this important character, and I am inclined at present to sink Iselma 

 as a synonym of Deridea, which (I am convinced by an examination 

 of the type at Oxford and a series of specimens in the British Museum) 

 should be regarded as a good genus belonging by virtue of most of its 

 characters to the Zonitis group, but aberrant by reason of its non- 

 pectinated claws. 




624 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



100. Deridea curculionides Westw., Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1875, p. 226 



Angola (Rogers). 



Type in Oxford, Hope Department. 



SUBFAM. HORIIN^. 



Genus HORIA Fabr., Mant. Ins., I, 1787, p. 164. 



Cissites Latr., Gen. Crust, et Ins., II, 1807, p. 211. 



Gahan has recently worked out the vexed synonymy of this genus 



in a valuable paper which I have read, by the kindness of the author, 



in manuscript.^ I here adopt his synonymy (which is the same as that 



of Aurivillius ubi infra) of the species reported from Angola. 



101. Horia afrioana Auriv., Ent. Tidskr., XI, 1890, p. 203. 



? Horia senegalensis $ (nee 6^) Cast., Hist. Nat. Ins., II, 1840, p. 280. 

 ? Horia (Cissites) testacea Fab., De Borre, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg. C.R., 1883, 

 p. 136. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



Described from the Congo and referred to the genus Cissites. 



^ Since this was written Mr. Gahan's paper has been published (Ann. Mag. Nat. 

 Hist., Ser. 8, Vol. II, 1908, p. 199f.) under the title, "Notes on the Coleopterous 

 genera Horia Fab., and Cissites Latr., and a List of the Described Species." 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 625 



The following reports were ordered to be printed : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



Since the last report of the Recording Secretary the meetings of 

 the Academy have been held, as provided by the By-Laws, on the first 

 and third Tuesdays of each month from December 3, 1907, to May 

 19, 1908, and from October 6 to November 17, 1908, with an average 

 attendance of forty-eight. Verbal communications, most of them 

 illustrated with lantern views, were made at these meetings by the 

 late Wilham S. Vaux, Jr., George Vaux, Jr., Stew^ardson Brown, 

 Casey A. Wood, Witmer Stone, John W. Harshberger, Philip P. Calvert, 

 Henry Skinner, Edwin G. Conklin, Henry W. Cattell, Harold Sellers 

 Coulton, Spencer Trotter, Miss Walter, Charles S. Boyer, Thomas S. 

 Stewart, Frank J. Keeley and Henry A. Pilsbry. 



Thirty-one papers have been presented for publication by the fol- 

 lowing authors: Henry A. Fowler, 4; Henry A. Pilsbry, 3; Henry A. 

 Pilsbry and Y. Hirase, 2; Witmer Stone, 2; Ralph V. Chamberlin, 2; 

 Harold Sellers Coulton, 2; E. P. Van Duzee, 1; Frank M. Surface, 1; 

 William S. Vaux, Jr., 1 ; Frederick W. True, 1 ; Chiyomatsu Ishikawas, 

 1; Arthur Erwin Brown, 1; Clarence B. Moore, 1; John Otterbein 

 Snyder, 1; J. Percy Moore, 1; James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard, 

 1 ; Robert T. Young, 1 ; John W. Harshberger, 1 ; Philip P. Calvert, 1 ; 

 Thomas H. Montgomeiy, 1 ; F. Creighton Wellman and Walther Horn, 

 1; James A. G. Rehn, 1. Of these twenty-eight have been accepted 

 for publication in the Proceedings and are now mostly in type; 

 one was withdrawn by the author; one remains to be acted on, and 

 one, by Clarence B. Moore, forms the fourth and concluding number 

 of the thirteenth volume of the Journal. It is illustrated with fine 

 text figures and eight plates beautifully printed in colors. As usual 

 we are indebted to the author for the entire cost of publication. 



The issues of the various pubhcations of the Academy during the 

 year have amounted to 1939 pages and 133 plates, as follows: Pro- 

 ceedings for 1907, 159 pages and 9 plates; for 1908,444 pages and 25 

 plates; Journal, Vol. XIII, PI. 4, 132 pages and 8 plates; Entomo- 

 logical News, 500 pages and 25 plates; Transactions of the 

 American Entomological Society (Entomological Section of the 

 Academy), 375 pages and 25 plates; The Manual of Conchology 




626 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



329 pages and 41 plates. This is 217 pages and 29 plates more than 

 the issue of the preceding year. The statistics of distribution remain 

 the same as for the last two or three years. 



Four members have been elected, the deaths of eleven members 

 and six correspondents have been announced, and Caroline A. Burgin, 

 Hannah Streeter and Morris Earle have resigned their memberships. 



The Hayden Medal for 1905 was presented to Dr. Walcott at the 

 meeting held January 7, advantage being taken of the occasion to 

 invite the members of the Academy and their friends to meet the dis- 

 tinguished recipient of the award. The address of presentation 

 was made by Dr. Persifor Frazer and responded to by Dr. Walcott. 

 The delay in presentation was due to the preparation of a new and 

 greatly improved design for the medal. Under the terms of the amend- 

 ed deed of trust providing for the making of the awards once in three 

 years, the Hayden Memorial Committee unanimously recommended 

 the grant for 1908 be made to Prof. John Mason Clarke, in recognition 

 of the value of liis brilliant work as State Geologist of New York. 



The Council has authorized the Publication Committee to prepare 

 an index to the entire series of the publications of the Academy, to 

 include the issues to the end of 1910, and to be published in connection 

 with the celebration of the centenary of the Academy in 1912. Such an 

 index has been long desired by students of natural history, who have 

 felt the need of a key to the wealth of the contributions to knowledge, 

 many of them of the first importance, issued under the auspices of the 

 Academy by many of the leading naturalists of America. Of the 83 

 volumes which will have been published by the Academy at the close 

 of 1910, the manuscript index to the first eight volumes of the octavo 

 Journal and the first 19 volumes of the Proceedings has been com- 

 pleted. It is divided into two sections: Authors and subject, and 

 genera and species. 



Dr. Henry Skinner was appointed a delegate to the International 

 Congress on Tuberculosis, held at Washington last September. 



Resolutions were adopted and duly forwarded endorsing the action 

 of the President of the United States in calling a conference to consider 

 plans for the conservation of the forestry, agricultural, mineral and 

 other natural resources of the United States, and in support of bills 

 for the purchase and preservation of the forest areas of the Southern 

 Appalachians and of the White Mountains as National Forest Reser- 

 vations. 



Edward J, Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 




1908.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 627 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



With regret the Corresponding Secretary records the death during 

 the past year of the following named correspondents of the Academy: 

 Henry Benedict Medlicott, Lord Kelvin, Henry Clifton Sorby, Prof. 

 Spiridion Brusina, Prof. Gustav Mayr and Prof. William Kieth Brooks. 

 No corresponding members were elected. During the year a few 

 additional photographs and biographical sketches of correspondents 

 were received and have been added to our files. 



Invitations to the Academy to participate in the following notable 

 events were received : The Third International Botanical Congress and 

 the First Congress of Administrative Sciences, both to be held in Brus- 

 sels in 1910; the Prehistoric Congress of France, the Centenary Jubilee 

 of the Physico-Medical Society of Erlangen, the Inauguration of Dr. 

 Albert R. Hill as President of the University of Missouri, the opening 

 of the new Hall of the Physical Institute of Frankfort a. M., and the 

 University of Cambridge celebration of the centenary of the birth of 

 Charles Darwin and the fiftieth anniversary of the publication of the 

 Origin of Species. Suitable letters of acknowledgment or congratu- 

 lation were in each case forwarded, and as the Academy's representative 

 to the last named Dr. Arthur Erwin Brown has been appointed. In 

 this connection it may interest the members of the Academy to know 

 that Darwin was elected a correspondent on March 27, 1860, within 

 four months of the publication of the Origin of Species, and that 

 this Academy was therefore probably the first society to place its 

 official stamp of approval upon this epoch-making work. 



An invitation from the Section of Geology and Mineralogy of the 

 New York Academy of Sciences to join in organizing a series of general 

 geological meetings for the eastern United States was referred to the 

 Geological and Mineralogical Section of the Academy. A letter of 

 thanks for the use of the Academy's Hall for its session of 1907 was 

 received from the American Ornithologists' Union. Notices of the 

 death of seven scientific men of distinction were received and acknowl- 

 edged by letters of sympathy. 



Copies of resolutions approving of the movement to establish 

 White Mountain and Southern Appalachian forest reserves and com- 

 mending the purpose of the conference to consider the conservation of 

 natural resources were forwarded to members of Congress and other 

 persons concerned and brought numerous favorable responses. 



Pursuant to instructions of the Council the Corresponding Secretary 




628 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



received from several members subscriptions aggregating fifty dollars, 

 which sum was forwarded as a contribution from the Academy to the 

 fund for erecting in Paris a monument to Lamarck. 



The numbers of letters requesting information received and answered 

 continues to increase. 



The statistics of the correspondence for the year follow : 



Communications Received. 



Acknowledging receipt of the Academy's publications, 217 



Transmitting publications, 65 



Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies, 4 



Invitations to learned gatherings, 7 



Notices of death of scientific men, 8 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institutions, etc., . . 16 



Biographies and photographs of correspondents, 4 



Miscellaneous letters, 88 



Total received, 409 



Communications Forwarded. 



Acknowledging gifts to the Library, 1073 



Acknowledging gifts to the Museum, 56 



Acknowledging photographs and biographies, 3 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies in journals, 84 



Letters of sympathy or congratulation, 9 



Miscellaneous letters, 101 



Annual Reports sent to correspondents, 221 



Circular letters, 90 



Total forwarded, 1637 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The growth of the Library during the past year has been satisfactory, 

 notwithstanding the inconvenience due to the alteration of the premises 

 required by the plans adopted by the Council. The accessions since 

 the first of last December number 7070, an increase on those received 

 last year. There were 5905 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 973 

 volumes, 192 maps, photographs and plates. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



629 



They were received from the f ollomng sources : 



Societies, Museums, etc 2,505 



I. V. WilUamsoii Fund 2,014 



General Appropriation 677 



Editors 530 



United States Department of 



Agriculture 336 



United States Department of the 



Interior 187 



Authors 148 



James Aitken Meigs Fund 139 



Geological Survey of Canada 47 



Geological Survey of Russia 42 



Estate of Angelo Heilprin 40 



Wilson Fund 30 



Geological Survey of Japan 22 



United States Department of 



Commerce and Labor 20 



Pennsylvania State Department 



of Agriculture 18 



North Carolina Geological Sur- 

 vey 17 



Department of Agriculture of 



Netherland India 17 



Trustees of British Museum 15 



Department of the Interior of 



the Philippines 14 



Geological Survey of Sweden 13 



Ministry of Public Works, 



France 12 



United^States PubUc Health and 



Marine Hospital Ser-vice 11 



International Biu-eau of Ameri- 

 can Republics 11 



Illinois State Geological Survey.... 11 

 Department of Agriculture in 



India 10 



Ministry of Colonization, Bolivia.. 9 



United States War Department. . . . 9 



Commission de la Belgica 7 



University of Texas Mineral 



Survey 7 



United States Treasury Depart- 

 ment 7 



United States Bureau of Fish- 

 eries 6 



Edward J. Nolan 5 



Geological Survey of India 5 



Geological Survey of Georgia 



Ministry of Works, Mexico 



Geological Survey of Portugal 



Wisconsin Geological and Natu- 

 ral History Survey 



Victoria Department of Mines 



Department of Mines, etc., New 



South Wales 



H. A. Pilsbry 



Publication Committee, Acad- 

 emy 



Department of Agriculture, 



Jamaica 



Western Australia Geological 



Survey 



New Jersey Geological Survey 



William J. Fox 



Corps of Mining Engineers of 



Peru 



Cape of Good Hope, Department 



of Agriculture 



Bureau of American Ethnology.. 

 Superintendent of Documents, 



Washington 



Rev. A. Boutlou 



Department of the Interior, 



Canada 



Geological Commission, Cape 



of Good Hope 



Geological Institute of Mexico 



Geological Survey of Virginia 



United States Coast and Geodetic 



Survey 



Library of Congress 



Ministry of Agriculture, Buenos 



Aires 



Bentham Trustees, Kew Gardens 



Danish Government 



Department of Agriculture, 



Canada 



New Zealand Geological Survey.... 



William B. Davis 



Botanical Survey of India 



Agricultural and Veterinary 



Faculty of La Plata 



Observatoire Central Nicolas 



Iowa Geological Survey 




630 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



M. le Due de Loubat 



H. Miiller, Hanover 



Commissioners of Fisheries and 

 Game, Massachusetfes 



Dr. Henry Tucker 



Florida State Geological Survey.... 



Central Bureau voor de Kennis 

 Provincie, Groningen 



Genaro Garcia 



Marshall H. Saville and George 

 G.Heye 



L. Kreischer 



Dr. H. C. Chapman 



William H. Welker 



Ministry of Works, Peru 



Dr. Joseph Leidy 



Geological Commission of Fin- 

 land 



L. Schiitzberger 



2 Maryland Geological Survey 



2 State Geological Survey of North 



Dakota 



2 Nova Scotia Department of 



2 Mines 



2 Kommission zur Wissensch. 

 Untersuch. der Deutschen 



Meere in Iviel 



Geodetic Survey of South 



Africa 



Government of India 



Estate of WilUam Ziegler 



Stewardson Brown 



Department of Geology, etc., 



Indiana 



Department of Fisheries, New 



South Wales 



Hawaii Promotion Committee 



Trustees Indian Museum 



They were distributed to the several departments of the hbrary as 

 follows : 



Journals 5,183 



Geology 414 



Agriculture 365 



Botany 231 



Voyages and Travels 150 



Geography 145 



General Natural History 99 



Anatomy and Physiology 74 



Ornithology 73 



Entomology 68 



Conchology 47 



Anthropology 42 



Ichthyology 28 



Mammalogy 23 



Mineralogy 22 



Helminthology 21 



Medicine 21 



Physical Science 21 



Bibliography 



Herpetology 



Encyclopedias 



Mathematics 



Chemistry 



Unclassified 



Eleven hundred and fifty-three volumes have been bound. 



Fourteen volumes and 548 pamphlets dealing with subjects not 

 germane to the objects of the Academy were sent to the Free Library of 

 Philadelphia and, in comphance with the law, 8 duphcate volumes 

 and 74 pamphlets were returned to the Government Printing Office. 



At the beginning of the building operations it was necessary to 

 temporarily arrange a part of the library on a section of the entresol 

 floor to make room for the extension of the hall entered from Race 

 Street, as required by the adopted plan of alteration. This change, of 

 course, entailed disadvantages which, it is hoped, will be remedied 

 when the entire library is arranged in the new building on the southern 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 631 



portion of the lot. With the exception of works of reference (encyclo- 

 pedias, etc.), and possibly those on general natural history, the entire 

 library is to be arranged in tiers of steel stacks. At present five such 

 tiers are provided for, extending from the ground to near the roof of 

 the rear section of the new building, thus securing increased room 

 which is sadly needed and, it is hoped, safety from fire. 



^Irs. James Woods, of Camden, Alabama, has thoughtfully presented 

 to the Academy a collection of seventeen letters written by Isaac Lea, 

 Timothy A. Conrad, Samuel G. Morton, Benjamin Silliman, William 

 Hall and John Finch, from 1829 to 1835, to Judge Charles Tait, of Clai- 

 borne, Monroe Co., Alabama, who was the first to develop, with his 

 correspondents, the Claiborne beds, of so much interest in American 

 geology as furnishing the most noted deposits of Eocene shells. The 

 letters contain several items of personal interest and indicate especially 

 the zeal and enthusiasm of a former President of the Academy, Isaac 

 Lea. 



Acknowledgment is due William J. Fox, for his efficient assistance 

 to the Librarian and the Publication Committee. 



Ed^vard J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The erection of the new library, stack, lecture hall and study rooms 

 and the alteration of the old building were begun early in the spring. 

 At the present time the alterations are practically completed, wliile the 

 new building is nearly ready for the roof. 



A handsome entrance hall has been constructed at the Logan Square 

 front, which has been carried through the old lecture room, making a 

 direct communication wdth the first floor of the Museum. The stair- 

 ways w^hich formerly connected the floors of the Museimi have been 

 removed to the vestibule, and all the rooms have been shut off both 

 from the vestibule and from each other by regulation fire-doors, which 

 greatly increase the safety of the collections. 



A fire-proof room has been constructed in the lower part of the old 

 lecture hall, which will be fitted up for the accommodation of the 

 alcoholic collections, where they will be shut off from all other parts 

 of the Museum. 



Heat and gas pipes and electric hght wires have been installed in the 

 vestibules and entrance hall and a new boiler placed in the engine 

 house. 




632 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



During the early part of the year much time was spent in moving 

 cases and rearranging exhibits preparatory to the alterations, and since 

 July 5 the Museum has been closed to the public, the cases being 

 covered up and many specimens removed for safety. 



During the past month the cases on the first and second floors have 

 been rearranged preparatory to reopening the'^Museum, and the work of 

 reconstructing some of the bird cases is well under way. 



Many shifts of position among the exliibition cases have been made 

 necessary by the changes in doors and stairways and the walling off of 

 the vestibule. 



The final cleansing of the halls will be undertaken as soon as the 

 painting of the walls and fire-proofing of the columns are completed. 



Early in the year the work of labelling the mounted birds was com- 

 pleted with the exception of the song birds, and the exhibition collec- 

 tion of Mollusca was entirely rearranged. Many of the articulated 

 skeletons have also beto cleansed and remounted. 



Owing to the condition of the Museiun, however, most of the work 

 of the staff has been devoted to the study collections. 



The old rooms of the Ornithological department having been largely 

 torn away, the entire series of bird and mammal skins has been re- 

 moved to the top floor of the Museum, where far more desirable quar- 

 ters have been provided. 



Thirty-eight moth-proof metal cases and ten large white pine cabi- 

 nets have been provided for plants, insects and birds, as well as 200 

 standard insect boxes. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore has presented another plate glass and mahog- 

 any case for the valuable additions to his collection of Indian 

 antiquities obtained in the Southern States and Arkansas. Dr. 

 Pilsbry and Mr. Rehn each visited North Carolina for a few weeks 

 during the year and made collections respectively of Mollusks and 

 Orthoptera. 



Through the Hberality of Mrs. Charles Schaffer, Mr. Stewardson 

 Brown was enabled to spend the entire summer in little known parts of 

 British Columbia, where he secured a valuable collection of plants 

 largely ne"^ to the herbarium. He also visited Bermuda in February, 

 with the aid of the Esther Hermann Research Fund of the New York 

 Academy of Sciences, where another important collection was made. 



Dr. J. P. Moore spent the summer at Woods Hole, where some 

 marine material was collected and numerous local collecting trips were 

 made by other members of the Museum staff. 



Among the important accessions of the year may be mentioned the 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 633 



Henry Skinner collection of Lepicloptera, the Vanderpol collection of 

 East Indian birds, the Quadras collection of Philippine Mollusks, all 

 obtained by purchase. Also the Herbst collection of Fungi, presented 

 by Mr. Herbst's estate, and a valuable collection of Central American 

 Coleoptera, presented by Mr. F. D. Godman. A number of interesting 

 mammals were received from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, 

 including the fine Indian elephant "Bolivar," nearly ten feet in height, 

 which is now being mounted in the taxidermical department. 



Details of work in several departments will be found in the special 

 reports, in addition to which Mr. H. W. Fowler has continued his 

 care of the fishes, and Dr. J. P. Moore of the Annelids, while Miss 

 H. N. Wardle has been engaged upon the arrangement and cataloguing 

 of the ethnological collections. 



The Curators are also indebted to Mr. S. S. Van Pelt for valuable 

 assistance in the herbarium, and to Dr. P. P. Calvert and Mr. E. T. 

 Cresson, Jr., in the Entomological department. 



Many specialists have made use of the collections during the year and 

 specimens have been loaned to Dr. C. Hart Merriam, Dr. Charles H. 

 Eigenmann, Samuel N. Rhoads, W. D. W. IMiller and Robert Ridgway. 



An idea of the extent of the Academy's collections at the present 

 time may be gained from the following summary, although some of 

 the figures are necessarily approximate. 



Of Mammals there are 12,416 specimens, of which 2,500 are osteo- 

 logical or alcohoUc preparations, 500 are mounted and the rest skins 

 with skulls prepared separately. The more important individual 

 collections are the S. N. Rhoads collection of North American Mammals 

 and the H. H. Smith collection from southern Brazil. 



The Birds number 59,579 specimens, of which about 9,000 are 

 mounted and 1,075 are osteological preparations. There are also 

 about 2,500 nests and sets of eggs. The notable collections comprise 

 that of Massena, Duke of Rivoli; the John Gould Austrahan collection; 

 the Boys collection of Indian birds; Canon Tristram's collection; 

 the Josiah Hoopes collection of North American birds; the Harrison 

 and Hiller collection from Sumatra; the George L. Harrison collec- 

 tion from British East Africa (on deposit) and the Delaware Valley 

 Ornithological Club local collection. There are about 600 types, mainly 

 of Cassin, Gould, Townsend, Gambel and Audubon. 



The Reptiles and Batrachians amount to 18,000 specimens, the great 

 majority being alcoholic; they comprise among others the E. D. Cope 

 collection and the Arthur Erwin Brown collection and include many 

 types, mainly of Cope and Hallo well. 




634 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



The collection of Fishes consists of about 40,000 specimens, and 

 contains the historic Bonaparte collection, the Cope collection and 

 also those of Hauxwell, Orton, H. H. Smith, Harrison and Hiller, 

 Rijgersma and others. There are many types of Cope, Abbott and 

 Fowler, as well as cotypes of Girard's Mexican boundary fishes. 



The Insects number about 369,000 pinned specimens divided as 

 follows : 



The most notable special collections are the Horn and Wilt collec- 

 tions of Coleoptera; the Martindale and Skinner collections of Lepidop- 

 tera; the Calvert collection of Neuroptera (on deposit); the Osten- 

 saken cotypes of Diptera; the Cresson and Bassett collections of 

 Hymenoptera and the Henry C, McCook collection of Insect Archi- 

 tecture. 



The collection of Mollusks numbers over 100,000 trays and more 

 than 1,500,000 specimens. Of this number 40,000 trays have been 

 catalogued and numbered as new accessions since 1893. The older 

 collection consists of the original collection of the Academy, begun 

 about 1817 by Thomas Say; the Robert Swift collection of West Indian 

 shells, about 10,000 specimens; the A. D. Brown collection of land 

 shells, bequeathed to the Academy in 1887, 5,400 trays. About 

 10,000 trays of these collections have been catalogued and numbered. 



The alcoholic collection of Mollusks consists of about 6,000 lots, 

 probably over 75,000 individual specimens. The number of types 

 of Say, Conrad, Tryon and others is not known, but since the year 

 1901, 925 types have been described from the new material received. 



Other invertebrates number about 11,500 specimens, of which 4,000 

 are Crustacea and 2,800 worms. The most important collections are 

 the Guerin collection of Crustacea, the H. C. Chapman collection of 

 Marine Invertebrates from Naples and the Edward Potts collection of 

 fresh-water sponges. 



The Herbarium contains about 584,000 specimens of flowering plants 

 and ferns, comprising among others the collections of Muhlenberg 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 635 



(on deposit), Pursh, de Schweinitz, Nuttall, Short, and Charles E. 

 Smith. The Fungi, Mosses, Lichens and Algae number about 50,000 

 specimens and include the collections of Sullivant, de Schweinitz, 

 Eckfeldt, Ashmead, Martin, Elhs and Everhart, Herbst and Rex. 

 Both departments of the Herbarium are rich in types. 



There is also a local Herbarium presented by the Philadelphia 

 Botanical Club, which contains about 20,000 specimens. 



The Palseontological collections comprise some 5,000 specimens 

 of Vertebrates and 45,000 Invertebrates, of which 3,000 belong to the 

 collection of the Pennsylvania Geological Survey (on deposit) and 

 7,500 to the Isaac Lea collection; also 1,500 fossil plants. There are 

 many types of Leidy and Cope among the vertebrates and of Lea, 

 Conrad, Gabb and Heilprin among the invertebrates. 



The general collection of minerals consists of 8,500 specimens, while 

 the William S. Vaux collection contains about 7,500 additional. Of 

 rock specimens there are over 10,000 in the Pennsylvania Geological 

 Survey collection and about 3,000 additional. 



The general Archaeological and Ethnological department contains 

 about 14,000 specimens, including the Samuel G. Morton collection of 

 human crania; the Peale Hawaiian collection, the Haldeman American 

 Indian collection and the Poinsett Mexican collection (on deposit). 



The Clarence B. Moore collection of Indian antiquities from mounds 

 of the Southern States includes some 5,000 specimens, the basis of 

 Mr. Moore's papers in the Journal of the Academy. The William 

 S. Vaux collection contains 2,500 specimens, largely from North 

 America and Europe. 



Summary. 



Mammals, 12,416 



Birds, '. 59,579 



Reptiles, 18,000 



Fishes, 40,000 



Insects, ; 369,000 



MoUusks, '. 1,575,000 



Other Invertebrates, 11,500 



Herbarium, 654,000 



Fossils, 46,500 



Minerals, 29,000 



Archaeology and Ethnology, 21,500 



Total, 2,836,495 



Samuel G. Dixon, 

 Henry A. Pilsbry. 




636 proceedings of the academy of [dec, 



Report of the Department of Mollusca. 



The rearrangement of the general collection in exhibition cases has 

 been almost completed, table-cases of gastropods having been worked 

 over during the year. Considerable time has been given by Mr. 

 Vanatta to the determination and description of Hawaiian mollusks 

 sent by Mr. D. Thaanum, of Hilo, Hawaii, and to the work of picking 

 out and assorting upwards of 500 trays of shells from material gathered 

 by the Curator last year in the Florida Keys. Large quantities of 

 leaves and forest debris, gathered by Mr. C. B. Moore, have also been 

 picked over, and much valuable material, especially of very small 

 mollusks, obtained. 



Mr. Y. Hirase has continued to send Japanese and Formosan mater- 

 ial; his latest sendings contain Korean mollusks, which hitherto have 

 been almost unknown. About 100 new species have been described 

 from this source during the year. 



Other valuable accessions are a series of marine shells from the Great 

 Barrier Reef, Australia, including cotypes of 19 new species, from 

 Charles Hedley. A collection from northeastern Mexico, from A. A. 

 Hinkley. A series of Irish slugs from Dr. R. F. Scharff, and many 

 smaller accessions from numerous donors. A large part of this material 

 has been worked up, and papers published thereon. The time of the 

 special Curator has been largely occupied in the preparation of the 

 Manual of Conchology, in which the families Oleacinidce and Ferns- 

 sacidce have been described. 



H. A. PiLSBRY, 



Special Curator, Dept. of Mollusca. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 



The Biological and Microscopical Section. 



The membership of the Section has changed but little during the 

 year. Nine regular and several informal meetings have been held. 

 On March 30, the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Biological 

 and Microscopical Section was observed by a banquet held in the 

 Section Room, at which were present regular and former members and 

 the officers of the Academy. The Director, Dr. J. Cheston Morris, 

 presided, and addresses were made by Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, Dr. 

 George A. Piersol, Dr. Arthur E. Brown, Mr. Witmer Stone, Dr. Henry 

 Skinner, Dr. James Tyson, Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, Mr. F. J. Keeley and 

 Mr. C. S. Boyer. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 637 



The communications made dming the year may be briefly sum- 

 marized as follows : Uses of the microscope in testing chemical prepa- 

 rations, by Dr. D. E. Owen; Leucoc}i:hemia, the Tsetze Fly and various 

 contagious diseases, by Dr. T. S. Stewart; opaque illumination and 

 numerous other subjects, by Mr. F. J, Keeley; miscellaneous objects 

 exhibited and described by Mr. William B. Davis; new and rare forms 

 of diatomaceae, by Mr. C. S. Boyer; rare forms of diatoms from Barba- 

 does, by Mr. J. A. Shulze; the organisms contained in various infusions, 

 by Mr. John G. Rothermel; other communications, by Mr. T. C. 

 Palmer, Mr. W. H. Van Sickel and Mr. Hugo Bilgram. 



The officers elected for the year 1909 are as follows: 



Director, J. Cheston Morris, M.D. 



Vice- Director, 

 Conservator, 

 Recorder, . 



Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, . 



T. Chalkley Palmer. 

 F. J. Keele)^ 

 . C. S. Boyer. 



S. L. Schumo. 

 . Thomas S. Stewart, M.D. 

 Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 

 Entomological Section. 

 During the present year ten meetings of the Entomological Section 

 have been held with an average attendance of ten persons. As usual 

 the large number of additions to the cabinet has necessitated the 

 greatest amount of work in the department. The large collection 

 of American butterflies made by Dr. Henry Skinner, numbering over 

 10,000 specimens, was purchased by the Academy. Dr. F. D. God- 

 man has presented 3,529 Coleoptera, representing 1,140 species, from 

 the Biologia Centrali-AmericarM collection, a most valuable addition. 

 One hundred and eighty-four insects from Burma were purchased 

 from W. Crumb. Dr. Henry Skinner presented 56 Lepidoptera from 

 various parts of the United States. Seven hundred Orthoptera were 

 collected by the Academy expedition to Virginia and North Carolina, 

 conducted by Mr. J. A. G. Rehn. About five hundred Orthoptera 

 were presented by Witmer Stone, Morgan Hebard and J. A. G. Rehn, 

 from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. One hundred and fifty-four 

 Brazilian Orthoptera were purchased from C. F. Baker. Two hundred 

 Diptera from British Guiana were received from Charles T. Greene. 

 In all over 16,000 specimens of insects were added to the collection. 

 Two hundred Schmitt boxes and four Brock tin cases were pur- 

 chased. 

 41 




638 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



The large collection of North American Hymenoptera has been 

 rearranged and some work done preparatory to the rearrangement of 

 the Micro-lepidoptera. All the determined Diptera, except a few of 

 the family Muscidse, have been arranged in Schmitt boxes and many 

 genera and species new to the collection were determined. All of 

 Osten-Sacken's types of Tipulidse and TabanadsB were marked and 

 numbered. In the order Orthoptera, reports were completed on the 

 specimens collected in Arizona in 1907 by Rehn and Hebard. Con- 

 siderable rearrangement has been done in the study series. Dr. P. P. 

 Calvert has continued his important work on the collection of Odonata 

 and has finished his contribution to the pages of the Biologia Centrali- 

 Americana. A large number of Coleoptera has been incorporated into 

 the collection, including some interesting material from Fort Wingate, 

 New Mexico. The Journal of the Section, Entomological News, has 

 been continued and volume nineteen completed with 500 pages and 

 25 plates. Two Associates were elected and one member died. 

 The following were elected to serve as officers for the year 1909 : 



Philip Laurent. 

 . H. W. Wenzel. 

 . E. T. Cresson. 



Henry Skinner. 

 . E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



Henry Skinner. 

 . E. T. Cresson, 

 E. T. Cresson, Jr. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Henry Skinner, M.D. 



Botanical Section. 

 f During the year further progress has been made in placing the speci- 

 mens in species covers, and it is hoped to complete this important work 

 at an early date. 



The additions to the Herbarium consist of the Herbst collection of 

 Fungi, numbering more than 5,000 specimens, being the life-work of 

 Dr. William Herbst, of Trexlertown, Pa., and presented to the Acad- 

 emy by Mrs. Herbst; a collection of Pennsylvania Flowering Plants 

 and Ferns numbering about 2,000 specimens, presented by Dr. H. D. 

 Heller, of Hellertown, Pa.; presentations from various members 

 numbering about 200 specimens; a small collection of Rubus, Amelan- 

 chier and Betula, purchased by the Section from Mr. W. H. Blanchard, 

 and a collection of 930 specimens of Balkan Plants, purchased by the 

 Academv. 



Director, 



Vice-Director, 



Treasurer, . 



Recorder, 



Secretary, 



Conservator, 



Publication Committee, 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63Q 



The Conservator spent about a month in the Bermudas during 

 February and March of the present year, by the aid of a grant from 

 the Esther Hermann Research Fund of the New York Academy of 

 Sciences, when collections of over 800 herbarium specimens were 

 made. During the summer, through the hberality of Mrs. Charles 

 Schaffer and Miss Mary W. Adams, he was enabled to make further 

 studies of the flora of the Canadian Rocky Mountains, ten weeks 

 being spent in the region about the headwaters of the Saskatchewan 

 and Athabasca Rivers, when collections of more than 3,000 herbarium 

 specimens were made, including a number of probably new species. 

 Owdng to the pressure of other duties it has not been possible to j^et 

 give this collection critical study. 



, The activity manifested in previous years by the members of the 

 Philadelphia Botanical Club has been maintained during the past 

 season, more than 2,000 specimens being added to the local herbarium, 

 including a number of species not previously recorded as occurring 

 in the region. Mr. Samuel S. Van Pelt has continued his valuable 

 services during the year as Curator of this important and rapidly 

 growing section of the herbarium. 



At the annual meeting of the Section, the following officers were 

 elected for the 3^ear: 



Director, ...... Benjamin H. Smith. 



Vice-Director, ..... Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder, ...... Charles S. Williamson. 



Treasurer and Conservator, . . . Stewardson Brown. 



Respectfully submitted , 



Stewardson Brown, 



Conservator. 



MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Section has this year held eight meetings (besides the December 

 meeting 5^et to come), with an average attendance of about ten. 

 Communications were made by Prof. Amos P. Brown, on ripple marks, 

 tracks and trails ; by Mr. Edgar T. Wherry, on two new antholite dikes 

 in Philadelphia County, and on the geology of the neighborhood of 

 Jacksonwald, Berks County; by Dr. W. J. Sinclair, on the geology of 

 a portion of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado River; by Prof. B. L. 

 Miller, on the geology of the Allentown quadrangle, compared with the 

 Philadelphia region; by Mr. Gilbert Van Ingen, on the geology of the 

 area drained by the upper Susquehanna River; by ^Ir. J. F. Vanarts- 




640 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



dalen, on silicified wood in the Norristown shales of Bucks County; 

 by Prof. 0. C. S. Carter, on tubular concretions, sheets and plates of 

 Pensauken gravel, cemented with iron hydroxide; by Col. Joseph 

 Willcox, on the geology and mineralogy of St. Lawrence County, 

 New York; and there were a number of shorter communications and 

 various discussions. 



There were ten field excursions, with an average attendance of 25. 

 The excursions visited: (1) The copper deposits of Upper Salford and 

 Frederick Townships in Montgomery County; (2) The crystalline 

 schists and limestones between Alton and Glen Hall, in Chester County; 

 (3) the New Red traps and shales between Quakertown and Perkasie, 

 in Bucks County; (4) the region of Bethlehem, in Northampton and 

 Lehigh Counties; (5) the New Red traps and shales in northern Bucks 

 County; (6) the silicified wood of the New Red and the minerals of 

 the crystalline rocks between Woodbourne and Neshaminy Falls, in 

 Bucks County; (7) the Cretaceous and Pleistocene formations near 

 Pensauken Creek, in Camden and Burlington Counties, New Jersey; 

 (8) the trap at Aldham, Chester County, and the Cambrian Sandstone 

 thence to Valley Forge; (9) the crystalline rocks and their minerals 

 near Lansdowne and up Darby Creek, Delaware County; (10) the 

 cross-section of the Chester Valley, from Devault to Malvern, Chester 

 County. 



Three associate members have been added to the Section. 



The following officers of the Section have been elected for the coming 

 year: 



Director, . 

 Vice-Director, 

 Recorder and Secretary, 

 Treasurer, 

 Conservator, 



Benjamin Smith Lyman. 

 . George Vaux, Jr. 

 . Silas L. Schumo. 



Miss Emma Walter. 

 . Frank J. Keeley. 



Respectfully submitted, 

 Benjamin Smith Lyman, 



Director. 



Ornithological Section. 



Since the last annual report the Ornithological Department of the 

 Academy has been removed from its old quarters to the top floor of 

 the Museum building — a far more desirable location, well lighted and 

 with ample space for the growth of the collections. 



New racks have been erected to hold the cases and the latter have 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



641 



been arranged in systematic order. Many cases of large birds formerly 

 stored elsewhere have been placed in their proper position, so that the 

 entire study series of birds is now for the first time brought together 

 where it is readily accessible. 



Mr. Rehn finished the cataloguing and relabelling of the Tristram 

 collection during the year, and this material, numbering 6,180 skins, 

 together with several smaller collections, has been distributed in the 

 general series. 



Ten large wooden cabinets were secured for the accommodation 

 of the AnatidiB and other large birds formerly arranged in temporary 

 cases. 



The labelling of the mounted birds was resumed early in the year, 

 and all the specimens, with the exception of the song birds, are now 

 labelled with technical and vernacular names and locality. Owing to 

 the alterations to the building some of the exhibition cases had to be 

 taken down or altered, so that the collection has been temporarily 

 disarranged, but the erection of new cases will soon permit of their 

 proper display. j\Iany specimens of interest were secured during the 

 year, the most important being the Van der Pol collection of East 

 Indian birds, comprising 1.070 specimens, representing many species 

 not heretofore in the Academy's collection. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the Pennsylvania 

 Audubon Society have continued to hold their meetings in the building 

 and have done much to maintain activity in this department. In 

 December, 1907, the American Ornithologists' Union held its twenty- 

 fifth annual meeting at the Academy, which in point of attendance 

 and interest was the most successful ever held. 



The officers of the Section for the ensuing year are : 



Director, 



Vice-Director, 



Secretary, 



Recorder, 



Treasurer and Conservator, 



Spencer Trotter, M.D. 

 George Spencer Morris, 

 William A. Shryock. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 Witmer Stone. 

 Wither Stone, 



Conservator. 




642 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



The annual election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the 

 Committee on Accounts to serve during 1909 was held, with the follow- 

 ing result: 



President, .... Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 



Vice-Presidents, . . . Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., 



Edwin G. ConkUn, Ph.D. 



Recording Secretary, . . Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Corresponding Secretary, . J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer, .... George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian, .... Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Curators, .... Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Witmer Stone. 



Councillors to serve three years, Charles B. Penrose, M.D.. 



Charles Morris, 

 Henry Tucker, M.D., 

 Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



Committee on Accounts, . Charles Morris, 



Samuel N. Rhoads, 

 Dr. C. Newhn Peirce, 

 John G. Rothermel, 

 Howard Crawley, Ph.D. 



COUNCIL FOR 1909. 



Ex-o^ao.— Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., 

 Arthur E. Brown, Sc.D., Edward J. Nolan, M.D., J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone. 



To serve Three Years. — Charles B. Penrose, M.D., Charles Morris, 

 Henry Tucker, M.D., Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



To serve Two Years. — Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., John Cadwalader, 

 Edwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D. 



To serve One Fmr.— Dr. C. Newhn Peirce, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., 

 Thomas Biddle, ^I.D., and Frederick Prime. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



643 



Curator of Mollusca, . 

 Assistant Librarian, 



Assistants to Curators, 



Assistant, 

 Taxidermist, . 

 Jessup Fund Students, 



Janitors, . 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 

 William J. Fox. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., 

 Stewardson Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 J. A. G. Rehn. 

 H. Newell Wardle. 

 David N. McCadden. 

 H. Newell Wardle, 

 Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. 

 Charles Clappier, 

 Daniel Heckler 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aebley. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1908. 



members. 



January 21. — ^William J. Sinclair. 

 February 18. — Burton Chance, M.D. 

 April 21.— Henry H. Donaldson, M.D. 

 November 17. — Sydney L. Wright, Jr. 




644 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



Mammals. 



George Bassett. Red Bat {Lasiurus borealis). 



Otto Behr. Skeleton of Red Fox (Vulpes fulvus), Sullivan County, Pa. 



James Chatwin. Mounted Gray Fox ((Urocyon cinereo-argenteus) . 



Benjamin Chew. Six heads of African .\ntelope. 



Mrs. U. p. Crumb. Skull of Man-eating Tiger (Felis tigris), Tongoo, Burma. 



H. H. Firth. Mounted Porcupine (Erethizon dorsatum). 



E. M. Fryer. Whale vertebra, South CaroUna. 



Dr. Joseph Grinnell. Forty-two skins and skulls of CaUfornia mammals. 



J. W. HoLMAN. Red Squirrel (Sciurus hudsonicus loquax), Ocean County, 

 N. J. (alcoholic). 



David McCadden. Skulls of Sumatran Pig {Sus vittatus), Mexican Puma 

 (Felis oregonensis aztecus), Mexican Lynx (Lynx baileyi), Wolf (Canis mexicanus) 

 (2), Canada Lynx (Lynx canadensis) and (2) Black Bear (Ursus americanus). 



Stephen Milstead. Jumping Mouse (Zapus hudsonius americanus), Atlantic 

 County, N. J. 



Mrs. T. R. Owen. Mummified cat. 



Purchased. Skeleton of Black Fish (Globiocephalus sp.), Cape May County, 

 N. J.- skin and skull of Orang-utan (Simia satyrus); skin and skull of Gray Fox 

 (Urocyon cinereo-argenteus), Bucks County, Pa. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Jumping Mouse (Zapus hudsonius americanus), Rhoads' 

 Red-backed Mouse (Evotoniys gapperi rhoadsi), and Deer Mouse (Peromyscus 

 leucopus), Ocean Coimty, N. J. 



S. N. Rhoads. Two mice, Adirondacks, N. Y. 



Dr. R. W. Shufeldt. Axis and atlas of Bear. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted: Springbok (Antidorcas 

 euchore). 



Skins and skulls: Two Slender Loris (Loris gracilis); Clouded Leopard (Felis 

 nebulosa); Serval (Felis serval); Eyra Cat (Felis eyra); Pine Marten (Mustela 

 martes); Bandicoot (Peragale sp.) [some to be mounted]. 



Skins and 'skeletons : Long-armed Baboon (Papio langheldi); Indian Elephant 

 "Bolivar" (Elephas maximus) [now being mounted]; East African Eland (Tauro- 

 tragus oryx livingstonei) [to be mounted]. 



Skins: Six skunks, female and young (Mephitis mesomelas), from Oklahoma; 

 Himalayan Talir (Hemitragus jemlaicus); Robust Kangaroo (Macropus robustus)- 

 Skull: Brazilian Tapir (Tapirus terrestris). 



Birds. 



Charles Beck. Purple Gallinule (lonornis yymriinica) from New Jersey 

 (mounted). 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 645 



Exchange (with H. K. Coale). Two California Black Rail (Creciscns co- 

 turniculus) . 



Purchased. Van der Pol Collection of East Indian Birds (1,150 specimens). 



Joseph Sapp. European Starling {Sturnus vulgaris), Ocean County, N. J. 



Dr. R. W. Shufeldt. Two bird crania. 



R. R. Tafel. Eggs of Arctic Birds. 



Miss Anna J. Valentine. Xest of Cassique {Cassicvs sp.). 



Zoological Society Philadelphia. Skins of White-eyebrowed Guan {Pene- 

 lope swperciliaris) . 



Crested Guinea Fowl {Guttera cristata) and Parson Bird (Prosthemadera novce- 

 zealandice) . 



Skull and sternum of Guira Cuckoo (Guira guira). 



Reptiles and Amphibians. 



O. H. Brow'N. One Salamander, Cape May, N. J. 

 • C. H. Conner. House Snake (Lampropeltis doliatus clericiis), Montgomery 

 County, Pa.; Hog-nosed Snake (Heterodon platyrhinus) . 



H. W. Fowler and B. W. Griffith. Small collection of Amphibians from 

 Cecil County, Md. 



J. W. HoLMAN. Anderson's Tree Toad (Hijla andersoni), Ocean Countj'^j N. J. 

 Red-bellied Snake (Storeria occipitomacidata) , Ocean Countj^ N. J. 



C. J. Hunt. Several Amphibians and Terrapin (Pseudemys) from New Jersey. 



J. P. Moore. Bufo fowleri, Martha's Vineyard, Mass. 



Joseph Parker. Anderson's Tree Toad {Hyla andersoni), Ocean County, N. J. 



Purchased, Twelve species of Lizards, Orlando, Fla. 



S. N. Rhoads. Two Salamanders, Adirondacks, N. Y. 



W. Stone. House Snake {Lampropeltis doliatus), SuUivan Count}', Pa. 



E. G. Vanaita. Queen Snake {Regina leberis), Chester County, Pa.; two 

 Frogs, Chester County, Pa. 



Fishes. 



C. C. Abbott. One Cliub {Semotihis buUaris), Xew Jersey. 



Charles Adams. Cush {Lota maculosa), Somerset County, Me. 



Charles A. Bastian. Wall-eyed Pike {Stizostedion vitreum). 



James Boyce. One Hake {Merluccius bilinearis) from Asbury Park. 



W. G. Carothers. Several Fishes, Cape May County, N. J. 



Dr. C. H. Eigenmann. Small series of Cuban and South American Fishes. 



J. B. Fine. Genitalia of Hermaphrodite Shad. 



W. J. Fox. Puffer {Lagocephalus l(evigatus) ; Selene vomer and Sea Cat {Felic- 

 thys), Cape May County, N. J. 



H. W. Fowler. Small collection of Fishes, Cape May County, N. J.; two 

 climbing Perch {Amihas scandens); small collection of Fishes, Florence, N. J.; 

 small collection of Fishes from Bucks Comity, Pa. 



H. W. Foavler and B. W. Griffith. Small collection of Fishes from Cecil 

 County, Md.; small collection of Fi.shes, Delaware County, Pa. 



H. W. Fowler and P. H. Hertzog. Small collection of Fishes, Lancaster 

 Countv, Pa. 




646 PROCEEDTXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



H. W. FowLEi! and C. J. Hunt. Several collections of Fishes from Cape May 

 County, X. J. 



H. W. Fowler and T. D. Keiii. Collections of Fishes from Burlington County, 

 N. J., and Newl>old Island, Delaware River. 



H. W. Fowler and David McCaddex. Collection of Fishes, Ocean Citv, X. J. 



H. W. Hand. File-fish (Alutera sp.). Cape May, X. J. 



Joseph Henderson. Gar (TylosuTus marinus). 



Miss Agnes F. Kenyon. Eel, Australia. 



D. McCadden. Seriola zonata, Ocean City, X. J.; Hake (Merluccius bilinea- 

 tus), Cape May County, X. J. 



R. F. Miller. Collection of Fishes and Reptiles. 

 Pennsylvania Department of Health. Microptenis dolomieu. 

 Dr. R. J. Phillips. Collection of Fishes, Cape May, X. J. 

 H. a. Pilsbry. Small collection of Fishes from Xorth Carolina. 



E. G. Vanatta. Trout, Chester County, Pa. 



Lieut. Hugh Willoughby. Barrel of Fishes, Florida. 



Insects. 



C. F. Baker. One hundred and fiftj^'-four Orthoptera, Brazil (purchased). 

 William Beutenmuller. One Lepidoptera, Manitoba. 



Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences. Four Orthoptera, Venezuela 

 (for determination). 

 P. P. Calvert. Eighteen insects, Pennsylvania. 



D. M. Castle. Two Coleoptera, Pennsylvania. 



E. R. Cheney. One Orthoptera, Xew Jersey. 



Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station. Seventeen Orthoptera, 

 Connecticut. 



E. T. Cresson, Jr. Thirty-four Diptera, United States. 



U. P. Crumb. One hundred and eighty-four Insects, Burma (purchased). 

 ■ S. G. Dixon. One Orthoptera, Pennsylvania. 

 L. A. Duhring. Six Orthoptera, Algeria. 

 H. T. Fernald. Sixteen Hymenoptera, United States. 

 W. G. Freedley, Jr. Eight Lepidoptera, India. 



F. D. Godman. Three thousand, five hundred and twenty-nine Coleoptera, 

 Central America. 



C; T. Green. Two hundred Diptera, British Guiana. 



F. Grinnell, Jr. Xinety-six Orthoptera, California. 



F. Haimbach. Four Heterocera, United States. 



M. Hebard and J. A. G. Rehn. Sixty-six Insects, Arizona. 



M. Hebard. One hundred and eighty-eight Orthoptera, five Lepidoptera, 

 Pennsylvania. 



C. Ilg. Twentj'-five Blowai Larvae, Pennsylvania. 



F. M. Jones. Two Heterocera, South CaroUna. 



H. H. Lyman. Three Heterocera, Canada (exchange). 



J. M. MacFarland. Three Heterocera, .\labama. 



A. H. Manee. Thirteen Insects, Xorth Carohna (exchange). 



J. H. Matthews. Elev^en Lepidoptera, Cuba; thirty-five, India (exchange). 



J. A. G. Rehn. One hundred and forty-four Orthoptera, Xew Jersey; seven 

 hundred Orthoptera, Virginia and Xorth Carolina (Academy Expedition). 




1908.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



CA'i 



H. Skinner. Ninety Lepidoptera, United States. 

 H. Skinner. Ten thousand Lepidoptera (purchased). 

 T. Spalding. One hundred and twenty-nine Insects, Utah. 

 W. Stone. One hundred and ninety-six Orthoptera, Pennsylvania. 

 E. S. Titus. One hundred and forty-seven HjTiienoptera, United States 

 (exchange). 

 M. ToMURA. Six Butterflies, Celebes. 

 J. F. Tristan. Seventeen Orthoptera, Costa Rica. 

 H. T. Van Ostrand. Twenty-five Lepidoptera, Mexico. 

 H. L. "\^IERECK. Three Hymenoptera, United States. 

 H. W. Wenzel. Eight Coleoptera, New Jersey. 

 G. B. Wood. One Mj-riapod, Texas. 



J. Woodgate. One hundred and thirty-one Insects, New Me.xico. 

 Total specimens, 16,200. 



Recent Mollusca. 



Jacob Aebly. Vallonia pulchella Miill. from Philadelphia, Pa. 



John A. Allen. TMrty-one trays of shells from Maine and Ohio. 



Joshua Baily, Jr. Arion ater rufa L. from Neuen Alir, Germany. 



Dr. Charles Baum. Helix muralis L. from Paestum, Italy. 



Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum. Fifteen species of Helicina from the 

 Hawaiian Islands. 



S. S. Berry. Eleven tra.ys of freshwater and land shells from California. 



E. Bethel. Seven trays of Oreohelix from Colorado. 



Dr. Samuel A. Binion. Cyproea cervus Lam. and Liguus fasciatus Miill. from 

 Key Largo, Florida. 



Stewardson Brown. Fourteen trays of shells from Bermuda and British 

 Columbia. 



Horace F. Carpenter. Pohjgyra apressa scnlptior Chadw. from Crj'stal Cave, 

 Bermuda. 



George H. Clapp. Three species of land shells from Arizona and Jamaica. 



T. D. A. CocKERELL. Nine species of shells from Jamaica. 



Charles Conner. Sphcerium striatinum Lam., Jonestowii, Pennsylvania. 



Prof. W. H. Dall. Gonidea angulata haroldiana Dall, from near San Jose, 

 California; also Milax gagates Drap. from Easter Island. 



C. Abbott Davis. Two species of Pleurodonte from Jamaica. 



Dr. Samuel G. Dixon. Pohjgyra albolabris Say, from near Mt. Alto, Franklin 

 County, Pennsylvania. 



M. J. Elrod. Seven trays of land shells from Montana. 



J. H. Ferriss. Four species of land shells from Arizona. 



Rev. W. H. Fluck. Five species of shells from South Africa and Central 

 America. 



H. W. Fowler and B. W. Griffiths. Two trays of shells from Pennsylvania. 

 W. J. Fox. Crepidula fomicata L. from Sea Isle City, New Jersey. 



W. J. Gilchrist. Micrarionta desertorum P. and F. from near Parker, Arizona. 



A. DaCosta Gomez. Ancillaria tankerviUei S. from Venezuela. 

 George M. Greene. Four species of land and freshwater shells from New 

 Jersey. 



G. Dallas Hanna. Eighteen species of shells from Lawrence, Kansas. 




648 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Dr. J. W. Harshberger. Mya arenaria L. from Long Branch, New Jersey. 

 Miss A. C. Hartshorne. Three species of Japanese land shells. 



Charles Hedley. Thirty-four species of marine shells from Masthead 

 Island, Queensland. 



J. B. Henderson, Jr. Twenty-three trays of land shells from Eastern United 

 States and West Indies. 



A. A. HiNKLEY. Fifty trays of Mexican shells. 



WiLMER Hinkley. Plcmorbis trivolvis Say, from Boise, Idaho. 



Y. HiRASE. Three hundred trays of Japanese shells. 



P. C. Jarvis. Eight trays of Jamaican land shells. 



N. W. Lermond. Ten species of land shells from Maine. 



D. N. McCadden. Pohjgyra albolabris maritima Pils. from Ocean City, X. J. 



Clarence B. Moore. Sixty-seven trays of land and freshwater shells from 

 Arkansas and Florida. 



H. B. Oakley. Fifty-five species of shells from Barbadoes. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. One hundred and eighty-four trays of shells. 



John Ponsonby. Two land shells from Africa and Bermuda. 



Purchased. Two hundred and forty-two trays of shells from the Lowe- 

 Wollaston Collection and twelve hundred and eightj'-eight trays of Philippine 

 Island shells from the J. Quadras Collection. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Venus mercenaria L. from Tuckerton, New Jersey. 



S. N. Rhoads. Cochlicopa from Hampshire, England. 



S. Raymond Roberts. Four trays of shells from Massachusetts and Jamaica. 



Paul Rowland. Cochlicopa lubrica Miill. from near Sapporo, Yesso, Japan. 



Mrs. Mary T. Schaeffer. Two freshwater shells from British Columbia. 



Dr. R. F. Scharff. Seventeen jars of slugs from Ireland. 



Dr. B. Sharp. Pleurodonte bornii Pfr. and Drytuetus elongafus Bolt, from 

 San Juan, Porto Rico. 



Burnett Smith. Fifteen species of land and fresliwater shells from Skanea- 

 teles Lake, New York. 



George W. Soelner. Vertigo pygmcea Drap. 



R. E. C. Stearns. Three species of freshwater shells from Cahfornia. 



WiTMER Stone. Polygyra albolabris maritima Pils. from Piermont, N. J. 



D. Thaanum. Sixty-one trays of Hawaiian shells. 



Dr. Henry Tucker. Ostrea virginica L. from the Eastern Shore of Virginia. 



E. G. Vanatta. Nine trays of shells from Mar}dand and Pennsylvania. 



H. L. Viereck. Pyramidula perspectiva Say, from near Harrisburg, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Bryant Walker. Twelve species of freshwater shells from Alabama and 

 Michigan. 



Walter F. Webb. Eight species of land shells from Tangulandang and Cuba. 



Dr. H. E. Wetherill. One liundred and twelve species of shells from the 

 Pliilippine Islands. 



J. Renton White. Seven species of land shells from Paestum, Italy. 



Joseph Willcox. Five species of land shells from New York. 



Helen Winchester. Two species of land shells from Canadensis, Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



H. W. Winkley. decum johnsoni W. from Woods Hole, Massachusetts. 




1908.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 649 



Other Invertebrates. 



Stewardson Broavn. One tra}- of Julus from Bermuda. 



W. B. Davis. One jar of surface towings, Woods Hole, Massachusetts. 



E. Denholtz. One Mygale heintzi. 



W. J. Fox. One sponge and sea cucumber from Cape May, Xew Jersey. 



J. B. Henderson, Jr. One tray of Cypris from near Amarillo, Texas. 



Mrs. a. Kenyon. Four jars of invertebrates from Australia. 



H. B. Oakley. Seven trays of invertebrates from Barbadoes. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. Two jars of Crustacea from Florida and North Carolina. 



S. N. Rhoads. One jar of Camharus from Hamilton County, New York 



B. Frank Teal. One king crab from Cedar Beach, New Jersey. 



D^. Henry Tucker. Astrangia danice Ag. from the Eastern Shore of Virginia. 



U. S. Fish Commission. Seventeen jars of Barnacles. 



E. G. Vanatta. One jar of Pseudoscorpion from near New Garden, Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



H. L. Viereck. Gelasimus from St. Augustine, Florida. 



Dr. H. E. Wetherill. Tetradita porosa Gmel. from the City of Panama, 

 Panama. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Stewardson Brown. Eight fossils from Alberta. 



C. P. Cardwell (through Dr. Henry Tucker). Several Miocene fossils from 

 Virginia. 



Dr. Samuel G. Dixon. One tray of fossil bivalves from York County, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Exchange. Twenty-four trays fossils from Missouri. 



E. M. Fryer. Two fossils. South Carohna. 



Morgan Hebard. Three trays of fossils from Florida and Michigan. 



Estate of Angelo Heilprin. Several fossils. 



Mr. Garrison. Two trays of fossils from Santo Domingo. 



George Lucas. One fossil tree stump from Santiago, Cuba. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Rhynchonella concinna from Wiltsliire, England, and Meekella 

 occidentalis Newb. from the Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona. 



G. RouMAiN. One Ostrea from Haiti. 



R. L. Shivers. One Placenticeras placenta Dek. from a well in Camden 

 County, New Jersey. 



Miss A. Stone. Portlandia glacialis Wood, from Drinkwater Point, Casco 

 Bay, Maine. 



W. W. Webster. Seven trays of fossils from Haiti. 



Joseph Willcox. Sixty trays of fossils from Mrginia. 



Pl.\nts. 



Academy Expeditions. Bermuda, Stewardson Brown collector, 800 speci- 

 mens; Canadian Rockies, Stewardson Brown collector, 3,000 specimens. 

 Miss Margrett.^. Atkinson. Macrocalyz nyctelia. 

 Charles C. Bachmax. Conioselinum chinense and Xaumburgia fhyrsiflora. 




650 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Edwin B. Bartram. Three luinclred and sixty-three specimens from A'arious 

 places in the New England and Middle States. 



Botanical Section. Collection of one himdred and forty-three specimens 

 of Ruhus, Amelanchier and Betuln purchased from William H. Blanchard. 



Mrs. William Herbst. Dr. Herbst's collection of Fmigi, numbering about 

 5,000 specimens. 



Bayard Long. Seventy-nine specimens from Delaware. 



Philadelphia Botanical Club. Twenty-five hundred specimens of local 

 plants, received from various members. 



E. G. Vanatta. Eleven specimens from Chesterto\\ii, Md. 



S. Si Van Pelt. Forty-six specimens from Delaware. 



C. S. Williamson. Two hundred and ninety-four .specimens from Delaware. 



Fossil Plants. 

 Purchased. Fossil stump, Santiago de Cuba. 



Minerals. 



H. A. Green. Several minerals from Tryon. X. C. 

 Estate of Angelo Heilprin. Specimens of ores. 



Estate of Sophie F. Riley. , Collection of Transvaal minerals and set of 

 Centennial medals. 



William S. Vaux Collection. Twenty-nine specimens purchased. 



Arch.eology, Ethnology. 



Clarence B. Moore. Numerous specimens from Indian mounds of the 

 Southern States for the Clarence B. Moore Collection. 

 Mrs. W. p. Douglas. Canadian Indian Canoe. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



651 



INDEX TO GENERA. SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND RE- 

 FERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1908. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced : synonyms by 

 italic numercds. 



Abastor 122 



Abramis crvsoleucas 529 



Acanthagrion gracile, 481, 487,. 489, 490 



Acanthias 73 



blainvillii 73 



vulgaris 71 



Acridium 20 



Aieris 125 



Acrj^diiim longi penne 16 



Actenoda 602 



Actenodia 601-603 



Actiaemys 114 



marmorata 114 



Actitis macularia 153 



Adansonia digitata .505 



Aegista 34,41 



^oloplus arizonensis 395 



tenuipennis 366, 394, 395 



^shna 462, 467, 468, 475 



brevifroiis 488 



cornigera 481, 489 



dugesi 475,488 



luteipennis 481,490 



multicolor 481, 490 



perrensi 489 



virens 489 



williainsoniana 481 



^shninfe, 462, 464, 468-470, 476, 485 



Agama coUaris 117 



Agelaius phoenicius 153, 1 54 



Agelena 293 



Agelenidaj 160,168 



Ageneotettix australis 366, 383 



curtipennis 368,383 



Agkistrodon 124 



mokasen 124 



Agrioninffi, 462, 464, 468, 469, 470, 476, 

 485 



Agrostis coarctata 458 



Albula didyina 5-55 



Alburnus rubrifrons 5^2, 543 



Alciopidse 340 



Alisma tenellum 4.57 



Alligator 113 



Allocosa, 162, 163, 169, 284, 284, 285, 

 298 



degesta 163, 285, 288, 513 



evagata 163, 285, 290 



?exalbida 163,292 



funerea 163, 285, 287, 292 



nigra 163 



parva 163, 285, 289 



rugosa 163,285 



sublata 163 



Alopia vulpes 54 



Alopiidse 54 



Alycteus cyclophoroides 454, 587 



kurodai ......:... 4.54 



la^vis 588 



tokunoshimanus 587, ,588 



t. mediocris 587 



t. principialis..: 587, 587 



tsushimanus 586 



Ambystoma 127 



subviolacea 127 



Ambystomidff 127 



Ammotrypane breA'is 354 



Amcebopsis IIS 



Ampelis cedrorum 154 



Ampharete arctica 348 



Ampharetida? 348 



Amphiardis 121 



Amphibia 124 



Amphictene auriconia 353 



Amphicteis alaskensis 349 



glabra 349 



scaphobrancliiata 349 



Amphictenida^ 353 



Amphipteryx 462 



agrioides 490 



Amphisbsenidse 119 



Amphitomis nanus 368. 376, 383 



omatus 376 



Amphitrite palmata 350 



radiata 350 



robusta 3,50 



Amphiuma 127 



means 127 




652 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



.366 



Amphiumidse 



Amyda 



Anaides 



lugubris 



Anatya guttata 



normalis .- 



Auax 



longipes 



Ancistrodon 



Anconia Integra 



Anely tropsis 



papillosus 



Anisagrion 461 



allopterum 481 



a. var. rubiciindum 



Anax amazili 



Junius 472, 481, 



longipes. 



Anelytropidffi 



Anguid£e 



Anguis ven trails 



Anisagrion lais 481 



rubicundum 



Anniella 



pulchra 



Anniellidse 



Anolis 



bullaris 



carolinensis 



chloro-cyaneus 



Anomalagrion liastatum, 469, 472, 



489 



Anota 



Mccallii 



Antilocapra aniericana 



Antinoe macrolepida 



Antrostomus vociferus 



Anura 125, 



Apalus 



Aphroditajaponica 



negligens 



parva 



Aphroditidse 



Apoda 



Apomatus geniculata 



Araneus 



Area 



Arcoscalpellum 108- 



Arctosa 



127 



115 



126 



126 



489 



489 



462 



488 



124 

 ,392 



119 



119 

 ,468 

 ,490 



490 



490 



489 



472 



119 



117 



117 

 ,489 



481 



119 



119 



119 



116 



116 



116 



116 

 481, I 

 ,490 i 



117 



117 



404 i 



336 I 



153 I 



126 



620 



338 ! 



339 I 

 339 

 338 

 124 

 361 I 

 281 1 



7 i 

 -111 

 163 



lynx. 



Archilestes grandis 481, 489, 490 



Arethaea sellata 398 



Argia 462, 466, 468 



adamsi 490 



a^nea 481, 487, 489, 490 



agrioides nahuana 481 



barretti 478 



calida 478 



chelata 488 



-cupraurea 478, 490 



Argia cuprea 489 



difficilis 490 



extranea 481, 487, 489, 490 



fissa 481, 487, 489, 490 



frequentula 481, 487, 489, 490 



gaumeri 478, 480, 489 



herberti .-. 478,488 



indicatrix 481, 487, 489 



lacrymans 481 



moesta 486,489 



oculata. 481,489 



percellulata 478,489 



pipila 480 



pocomana 478 



popoluca 478 



pulla 487, 489, 490 



rhoadsi 478 



rogersi 490 



tarascana 481 



terira 488 



tezpi 480,490 



tonto 481,488 



translata 472, 489, 490 



ulmeca 489 



variabilis 490 



vi^^da 481 



V. plana '. 481 



wlsoni 478 



Argiallagma 474,487 



minutum 478 



Arion 425 



Aristida lanosa 458 



Arithmema 602 



Arizona 121 



elegans 121 



Aromochelys 114 



Arphia teporata 366, 385 



Arphylla producta 466 



Aspidonectes 115 



Atacama conifera 352 



Atheca? 113 



Atomarchus 120 



multiniaculatus 120 



Aulonia 163, 284, ^95, 300 



amantiaca 298 



funerea 291 



humicola 306 



Aulocara ruf um 366. 383 



Autodax 126 



Barissia 118 



imbricata 118 



Bascanium 121,121 



Batrachia 124 



Batrachoseps 127 



Bifidaria armigerella 455 



(Bensonella) plicidens 43 



Bison bison 404 



Blattida? 368 



Boida; 119 



Boltonia asteroides 458 



Bootettix argentatus 376 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



653 



Brachiaria digitarioides 458 



Brachyorros 1S2 



Bradapilosa 357 



^^llosa 357 



Bradburya virginica 458 



Branta canadensis 153 



Breclmiorhoga 462,468 



inequi unguis 487, 489, 490 



pertinax 481, 487, 489, 490 



postlobata 489 



prfccox 487,489 



rapax 481,490 



tepeaca 481 



vivax 481,490 



Bruchus 610,615 



Bufo 125 



vulgaris 125 



Bufonidse 125 



Butorides virescens 153 



Calamaria atrocincta 123 



brachyorros 124 



elapsoidea 122 



Calantica 106, 107 



calyculus 107 



eos 106 



falcata 107 



gemma 107 



grimaldi 107 



sviperba 107 



trispinosa 106 



villosa 106 



Calemys 114 



muhlenbergi 114 



Callichelys II4. 



Callisaurus draconoides 117 



Callizona angelini 340 



Callopeltis 121 



Callosperniopliilus lateralis 404 



Calopterygina?....464, 468-470, 476, 485 



Calopteryx 462 



Campostoma anomalum 518 



Canis sp 404 



Cannacria batesi 489 



Cannaphila vibex 489,490 



Cantharis 617 



bifasciata 611 



seminitens 617 



Capitellidaj 354 



Carcharias 62 



ellioti 64 



littoralis 54 



taurus 62 



Carchariidse 54 



Carcharinus 62,63 



broussonetii 62 



cferuleus 62 



commersonii 62 



cornubicus 62 



glaucus 62 



heterobrancliialis 62 



heterodon 62 



42 



Carcharinus lamia 62, 63 



lividus 62 



megalops 62 



monensis 62 



ustus 62 



verus 62 



\ailpes 62 



Carcharodon 63 



Caretta 115 



nasuta 115 



Carphophiops 122 



vermiformis 122 



Carphopliis 122 



Carycliium noduHf erum 455 



Castor canadensis f ondator 404 



Cataphracta 113 



Cathartes aura 153 



Catulus 53 



edwardii 53 



stellaris 53 



Caudata 124,126 



Celestus 117 



striatus 117 



CeHthemis 461 



eponina 466 



Celuta 122 



Cemophora 123 



Centrophorus granulosus 69 



Cen troscylliima f abri cii 69 



Ceratichthys micropogon 550, 551 



^^gilax 530 



Ceratophylkmi 444 



Ceratura capreola 489, 490 



Cercidium torreyanum 366 



Cereus giganteus 366 



Ceroctis 601, 602, 615 



vespina 615 



Cer^'^ls canadensis 404 



occidentalis 405 



Chffitochloa magna 458 



ChajtosylUs 325 



Chsetura pelagica 133, 153 



Ceryle alcyon 153 



Cetorhinidse 55 



Cetorhinus maximus 55 



Chamalyc£Eus 586, 588 



Charina 119 



Chelonia 113, 115 



imbricata 115 



Chelonidse 115 



Chelonii 113 



Chelonura 113 



temminckii 114 



Chelopus 114 



Chelydra 113 



Ch(4ydrid:p 113 



Chilomeniscus stramineus 123 



Chiloscyllium indicum 53 



Chilomeniscus 123 



Chilopoma 120 



Chlorha?mid£e 356 




654 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Chloritis 592 



impotens 41 



Chorophilus 125 



Chlorosoma 122 



Chondrotus 127 



tenebrosus 127 



Chone gracilis 360 



Chordeiles virginianus 153 



Chromacris 15 



miles 15 



nuptialis 16 



Chrosomus eos 520 



erythrogaster 519, 520 



Chrysemys 114 



Cicindela angusticollis 505, 508 



asperula 506 



aiilica 506 



bocagei 507 



brevieollis 505 



b. clathrata 507 



b. discoidalis 507 



b. intermedia 507 



b. neglecta 507 



cabinda 505, 507 



cincta 512 



damara 507 



dougalensis imperatrix 512 



flammulata 508 



fla\dpes 505, 506, 510 



grandis 508 



graphica 508 



infuscata 505, 506, 511 



intermedia 505 



interrupts 508 



leucopicta 506, 508 



lugubris 508 



lutaria '. 505,511 



mechowi 505, 506, 508, 511 



melancholica 505, 511 



muata 508 



nilotica 512 



nitidula 505,507 



nubifera 510 



obtusidentata 507 



octoguttata 511 



polysita 506 



prodotiformis 508 



pudica 507 



putzeysi 505, 506, 511 



quadristriata 510 



regalis 512 



reticostata 505,509 



(Ophrj^odera) rufomai-ginata 



bohemani 509 



r. distanti 509 



r. poggei 509 



r.richteri 509 



saraliensis 505, 508 



semicuprea 510 



senegalensis 507 



suturalis 506,510 



Cicindela uncivittata 505-507 



u. exigua 507 



vicina 511 



villosa 505, 506, 510 



wellmani 505, 507 



Cicindelina 506 



Cicindelinse 504 



Cicindelini 506 



Cinostemidse 114 



Cinostemum 114 



flavescens 114 



pennsylvanicmii 114 



Circotettixundulatus 391 



verruciilatus 391 



Cissites 624 



Cistudo ; 115 



Citellus elegans 404 



tridecemlineatus pallidus.. 404, 406 



variegatus grammurus 404 



Citrigrada- 168 



Clausilia aculus 455, 564,565 



a. coreana 455 



a. mokpoensis 455 



agna 575, 576 



a. spicata 575, 576 



aulacopoma 572 



awajiensis 572 



belcheri 455 



brevior 568 



cladoptyx 585 



claviformis 455 



dsemonorum 580 



d. viva 580 



degenerata 569 



d. nakadiana 569 



digonoptyx 564 



dolichoptyx 576 



d. micra 576 



eastlakeana 561-563 



e. vaga 561 



echo 561, 562, 563 



entospira 579 



euholostoma 562 



exodonta 578 



exulans 579 



formosensis 569 



f. hotawana 569, 570 



fultoni svibsp. clavula 567 



f usaniana 455 



hacliijoensis 580 



heniileuca 574 



hickonis 567,567 



h. saucia 567 



hilgendorfi 565 



hirasei 576 



holotrema 575 



hj'perolia 571 



hyperoptyx 577, 578 



h. sezokoensis 577, 578, 578 



idioptyx 584 



ikiensis 573 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



655 



Clausilia i. tsushimana 573 



jacobiana 567 



j. jacobiella 567 



japonica 565-567 



j.interplicata 566 



j. kobensis 566 



j.nipponensis 565, 566 



j. var. perobscura 565 



j . var. perst riata 565 



j. ultima 566 



j. vespertina 566 



Idkaiensis 576 



kobensis 566 



loxospira 566 



martensi 566 



nakadse 561, 563 



nakadai 569 



n. degenerata 569 



nakanoshimana 576, 577 



nesiotica 562 



iiipponensis 566, 566 



nishinosliimana 568 



oxypomatica 576 



pattalus 580 



p. miyakoensis 5S0 



pigra. 573 



platyauchen 571, 573 



pluviatilis 571 



ptychocyma 575 



purissima 575 



sarissa 576,577 



subaciilus 564 



subjaponica 567 



subhmellata 572 



swnhoei 569-571 



taiwanica 569, 570, 571 



tau 455 



thaumatopoma 579 



tokarana 580, 580, 581, 583 



t. saccatibasis 580, 581, 582, 583 



tosana 572 



tripleuroptyx 564,565 



validiuscula 572 



variegata 561-563 



V. var. nakadai 563, 569 



(Megalophsedusa) vasta 567 



yaeyamensis 576-578 



Clausiliids 452,586 



Clemmys.- 114 



Clinostomus margarita 527, 529 



Clymenella tentaculata 356 



Cnemidophorus 118 



hyperythrus 118 



sexlineatus 118 



Coceyzus cayanen.?i.s. Ji.97 



cayanus 493 



cayennensis 494 



erj'throphthalmus 153 



macrocercus 493,^^97 



minutus 45^,496 



monachus 4P(^ 



Coceyzus ridibundus 493 



rubicundus 493 



Colaptes auratus luteus , 153 



Coleonix 116 



elegans 116 



Coluber V2\,121 



abacurus 122 



allegheniensis 121 



amoenus 122 



coccineus 123 



constrictor 121 



corais 121 



couperi 121 



flagellum 121 



leberis 120 



leopardinus 121 



melanoleucus 121 



natrix 120,120 



nebulatus 123 



pimctatus 122 



sibon 123 



sipedon 120 



.striatula 121 



venustissimus 123 



vernalis 122 



\'iperinus 120 



Colubridff 120, 122 



Compsosoma 121 



Compsothlypis americana 1.55 



Conalciea liuachucana 393 



Coniophanes 123 



fis-sidens 123 



Conophis 123 



vittatus 123 



Conopsis nasus 122 



Conozoa acuminata 389 



carinata 366,389 



sulcifrons 389 



Contia 122 



mitis 122 



Contopus virens 153 



Cora 468 



marina 487, 489, 490 



skinneri 488 



Cordulegaster 462,468 



diadema 481 



godmani 475, 477, 488 



Cordulegasterinse, 462, 464, 468-470, 



476, 485 



Cordulinse, 462, 464, 468, 470, 476, 485 



Coronella sayi 122 



Coryna 601-603 



lata 615 



Corynorhinus macro tis pallescens.. 407 



Cosmema auropunctata .505. .506 



marginepunctata 505 



wellmani 505 



Cottus gracilis 535 



Coturniculus passerinus savanna- 

 rum 154 




656 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Covillea 385 



tridentata 366,376 



Criolis 620 



Crocodilini 113 



Crocodilus 113 



lucius 113 



mississippiensis 113 



niloticus 113 



Crotalus 124 



horridus 124 



miliarius 124 



Crotophytus 117 



dorsalis 117 



Crucigera formosa 361, 362 



zygophora 361 



Cryptobranchidse 127 



Cryptobranchus 127 



allegheniensis 127 



Ctenosaura 117 



cycluroides 117 



Cuculus cayanensis minor 496 



cayanus 496, 497 



cayenensis 493 



mexicaniis 4^8 



melanogaster 4^6 



ridibundus 499 



rutilus ^5^,496 



rubicundus 499 



Cursores 1^8 



Cyanogomphus 468 



tumens 489 



Cvathopoma micron 454 . 



Cyclophis i^2 



Cj^clophorus formosaensis 31 



f . interioris 31 



friesianus 31 



herklotsi 454 



turgidvis 31 



Cyclotus campanulatus 31, 32, 454 



minutus 454 



m. quelpartensis 454 



stenomphalus 32 



tanegashimanus v- §1 



Cymatopleura angulata 554 



cochlea 554 



elliptica 554 



gigantea 554 



gracilis 554 



hibernica 554 



kinkeri 554 



marina 554 



regula 554 



shulzei 503,554 



solea 554 



Cynais canis 55 



CvTiomys leucurus 404 



Cyperus pseudovegetus 458 



Cvprinidfe 517-553 



Cystignathidee 125 



Cystignathus nigritiis 125 



Dactylotum variegatvmi 398 



Dalatias licha 69 



DalatiidEe 69 



Daphnia 412,425 



Decapotoma 601, 602, 604 



Decatoma 602 



Deirochelys 114 



reticulata 114 



Delphinidae 29 



Dendroica sestiva 155 



blackburnia? 155 



cserulescens 155 



coronata 155 



discolor 155 



palmarum hypochryssa 155 



maculosa 155 



pensjdvanica 155 



striata 155 



Adgorsii 155 



virens 155 



Dennstoedtia pun ctilobula 449 



Deridea 623 



curculionides 624 



Dermochelidse 113 



Dermochelys 113 



Derotmema delicatulum 388 



haydeni 389 



laticinctum 366, 367, 388 



Desmognathidfe 126 



Desmognathus 126 



Diadophis 122 



Diastatops 461 



Dicomptodon 127 



Diceratoptvx 583 



Dichroplus. 22 



brasiliensis 22 



Dicksonia pilosiuscula 449 



Didicla 115 



Diemj'ctylus 126 



Diploglossus 117 



Diplommatina cassa 32 



collarifera 589,590 



gotoensis 32, 33 



hangchowensis 37, 38 



hirasei 590 



hungerfordiana 38 



kumejimana 589 



kvushuensis 33 



nesiotica 589,590 



nipponensis 33 



okiensis 589,590 



o. tsushimana 589 



paxillus 38, 454, 588 



p. ultima 454, 588 



saginata 590 



schmackeri 38 



tanegashimse 590 



yonakunijimana 588 



Diplommatinidse 37 



Dipsas annulatus 123 



Dipsosaurus 117 



Dissosteira Carolina 386 




190S. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



657 



Dolichonvx orvzivorus 153 



Dolomedes ' 293 



Dromica (Cosmema) auropunctata 511 

 (Cosmema) marginepunotata.. 512 



tricostata 511 



(Cosmema) wellmani 512 



Dromicina 511 



Dromogomplius 461 



Drymarchon 121 



Drymobius 121 



Dryopteris simulata 457 



Dythemis 466,468 



cannacriodes 4S7 



maya , 490 



rufiner\as 466 



velox 487-490 



Ecaudata 124,125 



Elseochlora 13 



arcuata 13 



humihs 13 



picticoUis 13 



pulchella 13 



trilineata 13 



viridicata 13 



Elaps 124 



lacteus 124 



lemniscatus 124 



Eleocharis interstincta 458 



melanocarpa 458 



ochreata 458 



robbinsii 458 



rostellata 458 



Eletica 616 



bicolor 616 



cardinalis 616 



colorata 616 



Iseviceps 616 



oniatipemiis 616 



rufa 507,616,617 



stuhlmani 617 



Elodea 421,446 



Empidonax minimus 153 



virescens 153 



Emydoidea 115 



Emydosauria 113 



Emys 114 



"belli 114 



blandingii 115 



europsea 115 



longicollis 115 



lutaria 115 



omata 114 



pi eta 114 



punctata 114 



serpentina 115 



Ena (Buliminus) 561 



coreana 455 



luchuana 598 



1. nesiotica 598 



1. oshimana 599 



rei niana omiensis 34 



Ena r. ugoensis 34 



r. vasta 34 



Enallagma ..462, 467, 468 



csecmn novfe-liispanise, 487, 489, 

 490 



civile 469, 481, 486, 489 



prajvarmii 460, 481, 486 



Encoptolophus subgracilis 367, 385 



texensis 366, 385 



Engj'stoma 125 



Engystomatidse 125 



Ennea cava 455 



iwakawa 455 



i. yonakunijimana 594 



Ensis 5 



Entoxychirus uyato 69 



Ephidatia 487 



longipes cubensis 489 



Epicauta 619 



canescens 619 



prolifica 619 



p. var. elunda 619 



Epigomphus 468,474 



eubobtusus 490 



tumefactus 490 



Episcopus 369 



1 Eptesicus pallidus 408 



fuscus 408,409 



Eragrostissp 620 



I Eretliizon epixanthus 404 



Eretmochelys 115 



Ericymba buccata 546, 547 



I Erpetogomphus 462, 468 



copliias 481 



crotalinus 481 



elaps 481,490 



ophibolus 489 



sipedon 481 



viperinus 487, 489, 490 



Erythemis 462 



attala 489 



peruviana 489 



simplicicoUis 489 



s. coUocata 481, 489 



verbenata 487,489 



Erythrodiplax 462, 466, 468 



berenice najva 488 



connata 481,487-490 



funerea 487-490 



ochracea 487,489 



umbrata 487-490 



Erythrolamprus 123 



Esox americanus 542 



Etmopterus spinax 69 



Eublepharidse 116 



Euchirotes 119 



biporus 119 



Euchirotidse 119 



Eulalialongicornuta 329 



quadrioculata 329 




658 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Eulamia 63 



longimauus 65 



menisorrah 65 



milberti 62 



odontaspis 63 



oxvrhynchus 65 



Eulota.'. 42 



aperta 593 



a. tumida 593 



caliginosa 592 



cecillei 454 



(Aegista) celsa 33, 34 



chejuensis 454 



ciliosa 454 



(Plectotropis) ciliosa 454 



(Euhadra) contraria 591 



coreanica 454 



eminens 34 



formosensis 591 



fortunei 40 



fulvicans 41 



gottschei 454 



hachijoensis 41 



liebes 41 



horrida 454 



inomata 41 



inrinensis 41 



koreana 454 



Isdva 39 



lasia 454 



lautsi 41 



(Plectrotropis) lepidophora 



scutifera 33 



1. tenuis 33 



luhuana 454,592 



1. latispira 592 



mi era 41 



mimula 454,593 



ni. peninsularis 454 



?munieriana 37 



okinoerabuensis 592 



orientalis 454 



oshecki 41 



(iEgista) perangulata 592 



perplexa 41 



(Euhadra) picta 591 



proxima 454 



pumilio 454 



purpurascens 454 



(Plectrotropis) scitula 40 



senckenbergiana 592 



sieboldiana 454 



succincta 591 



tenuissima 454 



verrucosa 454 



vulvivaga quelpartensis 454 



Eulotella 40 



Eumeces 118, 119 



Eunice kobiensis 345 



Eunicidse 345 



Eunoe depressa 333 



d. var. mammillata 333 



Eupagurus arniatus 343 



Eupha^dusa 451, 561, 562 



Euphagus carolinus 154 



Euphrosyne arctica 340 



bicirrata 339 



borealis 339 



hortensis 339 



longisetosa 339 



Euphros3Tiid£e 339 



Eurjanorpha cyanipes mouffleti.505, 511 



Euscalpellum 106-108 



bengalense 108 



renei 108 



rostratum 108 



? squamuliferum 108 



stratum 108 



Eutajnia 120 



Eutamias amoenus operarius 404 



minimus consobrinus 404, 405 



quadri vittatus 404, 405 



Euthore 461 



Euzonitis 620 



Evotomys gapperi galei 404 



Exoglossum maxillingua 535, 552 



Farancia 122 



drummondi 122 



Faroa wellmani 616 



Felis hippolestes 404 



Ficimia 123 



olivacea 123 



Formosana i 569 



Fulgur 3-9 



carica 3, 5, 6, 8 



perversa 3, 6, 8 



Galeocerdo tigrinus 61 



Galeorhinidiie 55 



galeus 57, 59, 60 



zyopterus 60, 61 



Galeoscoptes carolinensis 156 



Galeus 53 



melastomus 53 



mustelus 59 



Ganesella 40, 452, 453 



albida 593,594 



a. mollicula 593, 594 



?gradata 455 



japonica 40 



Gatt vana amondseni 336 



ciliata 337 



cirrosa 337 



senta 337 



Geckonidse 116 



Geigeria wellmani 615 



Geolycosa 163,514: 



arenicola 241 



baltimoriana 246 



carolinensis 248 



latifrons 242 



texana 2^8,514: 



Georgia 121 



Georissa 38 



bachmanni 38, 39 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



659 



Georissa heudei 38, 39 



(Georissopsis) heudei 38 



liungerfordi ana 38 



nivea 38 



sinensis 38, 39 



sulcata 38 



Georissopsis 38 



Geothlypis trichas 155 



Gerrlionotus 118 



liocephalus 118 



tessellatus 118 



GingljTnostoma 54 



cirratum 53 



Ginglymostomidae 53 



Glauconia 119 



Glyceranana 347 



tesselata 348 



Glyceridaj 347 



Glycinde wireni 348 



Glyptemys 114 



insculptus 114 



Gnathium 621 



Gomphina?, 462, 464, 468, 470, 476, 485 



Gomplioides 468 



suasa 489 



Gomphus 461 



Goniada annulata 348 



Goniadidip 348 



Gopherus 113 



Gradientia 112, 113, 116, 124 



Graphipterus sp 511 



Graptemys 114 



geographica 114 



Gryllidc^ 399 



Gryllus armatus 400, 402 



(Locusta) lineatus 20 



personatiis 399 



Guloluscus 404 



Gymnandeniopsi s nivea 458 



Gymnopogon brevifolius 458 



Gynacantha 462 



septima 490 



tibiata 489 



trifida 489,490 



Gyrinopliilus 126 



Hadrotettix trifaseiatus 392 



Haldea 121 



Halosydna insigiiis 330, 338 



lordi 330 



pulchra 329 



Harmothoe hirsuta 334 



imbricata 334 



truncata 332 



tuta 331 



Hedera helix 449 



Heliastus aridiis 366, 392 



HeUcida? 39 



Helicina 560 



baldwini 560 



laciniosa 560 



rotelloidea 560 



Helicina uberta 560 



HeUcops 121 



alleni 121 



carinicaudatus 121 



erythrogrammus 122 



Helix ciliosa 452 



(Satsuma) gradata 452 



hortensis ;. 425 



pomatia 425 



rejecta 554,594 



Helminthophila pinus 155 



Helmitheros vermivorus 155 



Heloderma 117 



horridum 117 



Helodermatidse 117 



Helodromas solitarius 153 



HemidactyUum 126 



Heniiphsedusa 453, 571 



HeniiscylUdiie 53 



Hemizaptj^x 575 



Heptranchias cinereus 52 



Hermadion truncata 332, 335 



Hermellida^ 358 



Herpetodryas a;sti\'us 122 



getulus 122 



margaritiferus 121 



tricolor 122 



Herpyllus 288 



Hesionidse 341 



Hesperagrion 461, 468 



heterodoxum 481 



Hesperotettix festivals 367, 393 



Heteragrion 468 



chrysops 489,490 



erytlirogastrum 490 



tricellulare 487,490 



Hetffirina 462, 466, 468 



americana 462, 472, 481 



capitalis 462,489 



cruentata 481, 487, 489 



fuscoguttata 490 



infecta 489 



macropus 462, 487, 490 



majuscula 490 



maxima 488 



miniata 480,489 



rudis 478,489 



titia 462,489 



tolteca 478,488 



tricolor 462, 487, 489 



^ailnerata 481 



Hetserinse 468 



Heterodon 123 



platjThinus 123 



Heterodontidse 52 



Heterodontus japonicus 52 



Heterozaptyx 576 



Hexanchidse 52 



Hexanchus griseus 52 



Hibiscus 607 



Hippasa 160,293 




660 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Hippiscus corallipes 386 



Hirundo erythrogastra 137, 154 



Holbrookia 117 



maculata 117 



Hololepida magna 329 



Holoscalpellum ; 109 



Homalocranium 124 



planiceps 124 



Homalosaparus 17 



canonicus 17 



Homoeogamia erratica 369 



Horesidotes cinereus 379, 381 



papagensis 366, 379, 381 



Horia 624 | 



africana 624 



senegalensis 624 \ 



testacea 624 I 



Horiina? 624 



Hudsonius 535 | 



Hyalina mamillaris 594, 595 



Hyalopomatopsis occidentalis 362 ; 



Hybognathus nuchalis 521,521 \ 



n. argj-ritis 521 



n. regius 521 



procne 53^,532 



Hybopsis amblops 549 



bifrenatus 531 



dissimilis 549 



kentuckiensis 550 



storerianus 550 



Hvcloeus duodecimpunctata 604 



Hycleus 602 



decimguttatus 6O4 



Hydra viridis 415 



Hydrocenidse 38 



Hyla 125 



arborea 125 



baudinii 125 



viridis 125 



Hylida- 125 



Hylocichla alicise 156 



fuscescens 156 



guttata pallasi 156 



mustelina 156 



ustulata swainsoni 156 



Hj-lodes gryllus 125 



lineatus 125 



Hyponeura 468 



funcki 481,489 



lugens 481 



Hypopachus 125 



seebachii 125 



variolosum : 125 



Hypselostoma 43 



(Boysidia) hangchowensis 42 



Inmanensis 43 



(Boysidia) hunana 42, 43 



Hypsiglena 123 



ochrorhyncha 123 



Icteriavirens 156 



Icterus galbula 154 



Icterus spurius 154 



Idiozaptyx 583 



Iguanidse 116 



Inia 27 



Iridoprocne bicolor 154 



Ischnognathus 121 



Ischnura 462, 467, 468, 489 



demorsa 481 



denticoUis 481 



ramburi 469, 472, 481 



r. var. credula 481, 487, 489 



Iselma 6^5,623 



Isoetes dodgei 457 



Isolessa feiTuginea 381-383 



texana 381,382 



Isopentra 619 



Isurus oxyrinchus 55 



Juncus setaceus 458 



Kaliella 598 



boninensis 598 



ceratodes 597 



coreana 455 



crenulata 455 



elongata 598 



fusaniana .-.. 455 



gudei 597 



g. mutsuensis 597 



koshinoshimana 597 



longissima 597 



multivolvis 455 



obesiconus 455 



praealta 598 



sororcula 597 



subcrenulata 597 



s. satsumana 597 



Enosternum brevicaudatum 114 



longicaudatum 114 



Koeblerinia spinosa 366 



Lacerta 113 



acanthura 117 



buUaris 116 



chalcides 118 



crocodilus 113 



orbiculare 117 



punctata 127 



quinquelineata 118 



serpens 118 



strumosa 116 



viridis carolinensis 116 



V. jamaicensis 116 



Lacertilia 116 



Lsenanuda 352 



Lagisca multisetosa 335 



m. var. papillata 335 



rarispina 335 



Lagorhina 617 



Lais 461 



Lamna cornubica 54, 55 



Lamnidse 55 



Lampropeltis 122 



Lanice heterobrancliia 350 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



661 



Leimonia 163,207 



Lepidonotus cseloris 331 



fragiUs 332 



robustus 330 



squamatus 331 



Lepidosternum floridana 119 



Leptagiion 461 



Lepthemis vesiculosa 487, 489, 490 



Leptobasis 468 



A-acillans ......487,489 



Leptodira 123 



Leptopalpus 621 



Leptophis 123 



ahffituUa 122 



Leptotyphlopidse 119 



Leptotyphlops 119 



Leptysma 16 



liliformis 16 



gracilis 16 



Lepus americanus bairdi 404 



campestris 404 



townsendi 404 



Lestes 462, 467, 468 



alacer 481 



henshawi 488 



tenuatus 489 



Lestinae, 462, 464, 468, 469, 470, 476, 

 485 



Leuciscus elongatus 527, 535 



niargarita 527 



vandoisulus 526 



Leucorhinia 461 



Libelulla 462, 467, 468 



auripennis 472, 488 



Comanche 475, 488 



foUata 475,488 



herciilea 489,490 



luctuosa 475, 488 



nodisticta 475, 481, 488 



saturata 481 



s. croceipennis 481 



Libellulinse, 462, 464, 468-470, 476, 485 



Lichanura 119 



trivirgata 119 



Ligurotettix 366 



coquilletti 384 



kunzei 366,384 



Lilseopsis lineata 4-50 



Linguelapsus 127 



lepturus 127 



Liodytes 121 



Liolepisma 118 



Liopeltis 122 



Litaneutria skinneri 370 



Lithodytes 125 



Locusta 20 



Locustiiife 12 



Loricata 113 



Luchuphaedusa 569 



Lumbriclymene pacifica 356 



Lumbrinerida) 346 



Lumbrineris heteropoda 346 



Lunatia 



Lutreola lutreocephala energuni- 

 eiios 



Lycosa, 160-162, 168, 170, 170, 

 210, 211, 211, 220, 221-223, 

 285, 287, 292, 293, 299, 299, 



albohastata 163,226, 



animosa 



antelucana 163,283 



apicata 163,224,232 



arenicola, 103, 222, 223, 239, 



aspersa 163. 224, 236 



a vara, 163, 222, 223, 225, 226, 



346 

 5 



404 

 171, 

 284, 

 300, 

 514 

 275 

 164 

 ,513 

 513 

 240, 

 241 

 242 

 279, 



avida 164 



babingtonii 163, 228, 229 



baltimoriana 163, 224, 246, 246 



beanii 163, 223, 273 



bilineata 220 



brunneiventris 163 



canadensis 179 



carolinensis, 163, 222, 224, 225, 

 245, 246, 248, 514 



charanoides 217, 514 



cinerea, 163, 222, 223, 281, 282, 



283 



coloradensis 163, 223, 249 



communis 163,253 



concinna 205 



crudelis 163,229 



discolor 164 



domifex 242, 2^^^ 



dromoea 202 



encarpata 164 



epigynata 163 



erratica, 163, 225, 226, 245, 251, 



253 



euepig^-nata 267,514 



exitiosa 163 



fatifera, 161, 163, 222, 223, 238, 

 241, 242, 242, 249 



fativera 513 



flavipes 179 



floridana, 163, 223, 225, 231, 283 

 frondicola, 163, 225, 226, 258, 261, 



261 



fumosa 163,272 



funerea 286, 288, 513 



furcifera 204,205 



fuscula 205 



georgiana I64 



georgicola 164 



glacialis 204,205 



gosiuta 222, 225, 281 



grandis 163, 224, 229, 231 



giilosa 163, 225, 226, 26.5, 514 



grossipes 164 



halodroma 282 




662 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Lycosa lielluo, 163, 222, 224, 226, 229, 

 231, 233 



helvipes 163,229 



humilis 217 



immaculata 163 



infesta 164 



indigatrix 202 



inhonesta 163, 242 



impavida 164, 199 



insopita 163, 267, 514 



iracunda 202 



kochii 163, 223, 263, 267 



latifrons 163 



lenta, 163, 224, 242, 243, 245, 245, 

 246 



1. var. baltimoriana 224 



lepida 163,253 



littoralis 163 



lynx 282 



mccooki 513 



maritima 



milberti 



milvina 



minima 



missouriensis 163 



modesta, 163, 163, 225, 226. 



163, 282 



163 



514 

 177 



.513, 



261, 



mordax 



nidicola 163, 



nidifex 163, 



nigra 



nigroventris \&Z,261, 



oblonga 



ocreata 214,215, 



o.pulclira 



perdita 



permunda 1 64, 224, 



philadelphiana 



pictilis 164, 225, 226, 270, 



pikei 



pilosa 164, 



polita 164, 



pratensis, 164, 225, 226, 261, 



propinqua 164, 



pudens 



pulchra 164, 



punctulata 164, 224, 256, 



pm-celli ■164, 



quinaria 164,224, 



relucens 217, 



riparia 164, 224, 233, 



rubicunda....l64, 222, 223, 278, 



rufa 



rufiventris 164, 



ruricola 164, 



sagittata I64, 



saltatrix 217,513, 



sayi 164, 



scalaris 



scutulata, 164, 224, 253, 255, 



164 



261 



164 

 220 

 220 

 164 

 233 

 164 

 271 

 164 

 248 

 279 

 263 

 253 

 164 

 267 

 258 

 267 

 277 

 514 

 236 

 279 

 214 

 281 

 245 



164 

 256, 

 256 



Lycosa sepulchralis I64, 270 



similis 164,229 



stemalis 188 



stonei 215 



sublata 288 



suspecta I64 



tacIi}^poda 199 



texana I64 



tignna 164,238 



tristis 202 



triton 164 



uncata 209 



vafra 164,229 



vehemeris 164 



venustula 217 



verisimilis 217 



vulpina 164,238 



wacondana 313 



xerampelina 199 



Lycosidse 158-318 



Lj^cosides 168,169 



Lycosoidaj 169 



Lydoceras 602 



Lygosoma 118 



LvmniBa, 411-414, 420, 421, 424, 425, 

 428 - 430, 434, 436. 438,443,446,447 



columella 410-448 



elodes 424 



megasoma 421 



Lynx uinta 404 



Lytta 601,617 



amethystina 506, 617, 618 



atrocoerulea 617 



bilineata 618 



bipustulata 616 



buqueti 617 



caelestina 618 



clialybea 617 



cinctifrons 617 



episcopalis 617 



hemicrania 618 



laminicomis 618 



maculifrons 618 



melanocephala 618 



m. var. bilineata 618 



metastemalis 618 



myrmidio : 618 



notifrons 618 



pectoralis 168 



rubropectus 618 



signifrons 617, 618 



strigida 618 



subrugulosa 618 



tboracica 618 



vellicata 619 



Lyttinaj 602 



Lyttini 617 



Macrochelys 114 



Macrochlamys liypostilbe 455 



rejecta..". 555,596 



subrejecta 595 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



663 



Macroclemni5's 114 



Macroniia 462, 468 



Maoropus caixana 496, 4^6 



Macrothemis celseno 466 



hemichlora 489,490 



inacuta 489 



pseudimitans 487, 489, 490 



Malache 607 



Malaclemys 114 



Malacoclemmys 114 



Maldane sarsi 355 



similis 355 



Maldanella robusta 355 



Maldanida? 355 



Manculus 126 



Manisuris rugosa 458 



Manolepis 123 



Mantichora congoensis 506, 512 



Imngstonei 512 



Mantichorini 512 



MantidfP 369 



Marmota flaviventer 404 



Mecistogaster 468 



modestus 489,490 



omatus 489,490 



Megacephala regalis 512 



Megacephalina 512 



Megacephalini 512 



Megaloprepus cserulatus 489, 490 



Megatrachelus 620 



Melsenis loveni 337 



Melias corallirhynchus 4^6 



Melanerpes erythrocephalus 153 



Melanoplus aridus 396 



atlanis 366,396 



brownii 366, 395 



canonicus ■..368, 396, 397 



cuneatus 395 



femur-nigrum 397 



femur-rubrum 397 



flabelUfer 395 



flaAadus 396 



herbaceus flavescens 395 



occiden talis 395 



Melinna cristata 349, 349 



denticulata 349 



Meloida^ 600-624 



Melospiza georgiana 154 



Mephitis mesomelas vaiians 404 



Mermiria texana 371 



Merula migratoria 156 



Mesoscalpellum 110 



Mestobregma obliterata 386 



Metaleptobasis 468,474 



Metalycseus 587 



Metator pardalinum 386, 387 



Metazaptyx 579,580 



Miathvria marcella 489 



simplex 489 



Micratlm-ia 462,468 



debilis 489 



MicrathjTia didyma 489 



dissocians 489 



exirnia 489 



ocellata 489 



Microcentrum affiliatum 399 



Microstigma 461 



Microps lineatum 120 



Microcystina lanipra 455 



Microcystis rejecta 594 



Microcentrum 398,399 



laurifolium 399 



rhombitolia 398,399 



thoracicmn 399 



Microtus mordax 404 



nanus 404 



pennsvlvanicus modestus 404 



Mimesthes'. 602 



Miogrvllus pictus 401 



Mitella 106 



Mniotilta varia 155 



Mocoa zelandica 118 



Molothrus ater 153, 154 



Murex fortispinna 7 



Mustela amerioana 404 



Mustelus equestris 56, 57 



felis 59 



mento 57 



mustelus....' 56 



Mya 5, 6 



M5darchus crinitus 153 



Mylabris 601, 602, 607, 610 



affinis 604 



ambigua..." 604 



amphibia 615 



andongoana 607 



angolensis 615 



atrochalybea 607 



benguelana 607 



bicincta 607 



bifasciata 612 



bifucata 608 



bilineata 608 



bissexguttata 608 



bizonata 609 



bohemanni 615 



carinifrons 608 



cheATolati 604 



chisambensis 600, 608 



chiyakensis 605 



c. var. tekama 605 



chrysomelina 603 



(Actenodia) chrysomelina 601 



cichorii 609 



decorata 604 



dentata 601,609 



(Actenodia) deserticola 600 



deserticollis 603 



dicincta 609 



d. var. buqueti 609 



discrepens 609 



dispar 609 




664 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Mylabris duodecimguttata 609 



duodecimpimctata 601 



elendensis 606 



ericksoni 609 



exclamationis 615 



flavoguttata 609 



gamicola 609 



haroldi 610 



hermannise 604 



holosericea 610 



hybrida 610 



interna 615, 616 



Jacob 610 



jucunda 604 



lactimala 610 



lanigera 610 



lanuginosa 604 



liquida 610,614 



mixta 604 



muata 610 



mylabroides 604 



myops 610 



m. var. welwitschi 611 



ocxilata 611 



o. var. moufieti 611 



o. var. ophthalmica 611 



omega 606 



opacula 611 



palliata 611 



paulinoi 611 



phalerata 615 



phelopsis 611 



plmdalis .• 601,611 



posthuma 604 



regis 606 



(Decapotoma) regis 601 



ristriguttata 615 



rufitarsis 612 



senegalensis 612 



s. var. conjuncta 612 



serricomis..... 616 



sibyls 612 



temporalis 606 



tergemina 604 



tincta 613 



tindila 613 



tortuosa 609 



tricolor 614 



trifurca 616 



trispila 614 



tristigma 614, 615 



t. tribuli 614 



tristriguttata 615 



villosa 610 



yerburyi 615 



Myriopln^llum 421, 424, 431, 446 



Myotis evotis 408 



lucifugus longicrus 408 



Mytilus 6 



Nanemys 114 



Nassa 5 



Nassa obsoleta 5 



trivittata 5 



Naticaampla 555 



bicolor 555, 557 



chemnitzii 556, 558 



didjTOa 555,558 



incisa 556, 558 



intermedia 555, 558 



lamarckiana 556, 557 



lamarckii.... 555, 557 



papjTacea 555 



p. major 556, 558 



petiveriana 555, 557 



problematica 556, 558 



robusta 556 



secunda 559 



tasmanica 556, 558 



vesicalis 555, 558 



Natrix 120, 120, 121 



gemonensis 121 



Nebrius 54 



concolor 54 



Necturus 127 



maculatus 127 



Necydalis 620 



Nemobius neomexicamis 399 



Nemognatha 621-623 



Neoneura 468,474 



amelia 480,487 



paya 480,489 



Neoscaipellum 110 



Neosorex palustris navigator 404, 405 



Neotoma orolestes 404 



fallax 404 



Nephepeltia 474, 487, 489 



phrjTie 489 



Nephthydidse 341 



Nepthys assimilis 342 



ciliata 341 



coeca 341 



longisetosa 3^2 



malmgreni 342 



Nereidffi 342 



Nereis agassizi 344 



armillaris 323 



brandti 344 



cycliirus 343 



dumerilii 344 



limbata 344 



paucidentata 343 



pelagica 342 



procera 343 



vexillosa 344 



(Alitta) vexillosa 344 



virens 344 



(Alitta) virens 344 



Nerita umbili cata li vida 555 



Nerodia 120 



Nicomache carinata 356 



Ninoenigripes 347 



I simpla 347 




190S. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



665 



Nothria geophiliformis 346 



iridescens 345 



Notomastus giganteus 354 



Notophyllum imbricatum 329 



Notropis ariommus 535 



atherinoides 542 



bifrenatus 530,531 



boops 535 



cayuga 53S 



chalybseus 541 



cornutus 539 



deliciosus 531, 535 



d. stramineus 531 



hudsonins 535, 536 



h. amarus 536 



keimi 533 



photogenis 544, 545 



p. amoenus 545 



procne 531,532 



rubrifrong 542 



urabratilis ardens 545 



whipplii 537,539 



w. analostanus 538 



scabriceps 535, 541 



jejunus 535, 542 



Nuda 124 



Nycliia amondseni 336 



Nycticorax nycticorax ntevius 153 



Ochotona saxatilis 404,405 



Octogomphus 461 



Odocoileus hemionus 404 



macrourus 404 



Odontaspis 65 



Odontochila en'thropyga..505, 506, 511 



variventris 506 



Odontochilina 506 



(Ecanthus nigricomis 402 



niveus 402 



quadripunctatus 366, 402 



(Enas 620 



bicolor 620 



melanura 620 



Oligosoma 118 



Oraalotettix 17 



signatipes 17 



Ommexecha 12 



servillei 12 



Omphalotropis japonica 454 



Onuphidse 345 



Opeas clavulinum 455 



c. kyotoense 455 



heudei 455 



javanicum 455 



OpbeUidffi 354 



Opheodrys 122 



Ophiboliis 122 



Ophidia 119 



Ophidii 119 



Ophiogomplms 461 



Ophioglossum arenarium 457 



Ophisaiirus 117 



Ophryodera boheniaiii 509 



distanti 509 



rufomarginata 506, 509 



Oporornis formosa 155 



Orectolobus barbatus 53 



japonicus 53 



Orophu.s 398 



retiuervis 398 



salicif olia 398 



Orphulella compta 367, 378 



Oplonffischna 461, 462, 468 



armata 460,481 



Orthemis 462,468 



biolleyi 480 



ferruginea 481, 489, 490 



le\as 487,489 



Osceola 122 



Ostrea 6, 7 



Othonna 615 



Ovis canadensis 404 



Oxyechus vociferus 153 



Oxynotus centrina 68 



Pachydiplaxlongipennis. 481 



Palseninema 468, 474 



angelina 489 



desiderata 478 



paulina 489 



Paltothemis lineatipes .481, 487, 490 



Pandion hali;<>tus carolinensis 153 



Panicum condensiim 458 



Pantala 462 



fiavescens....462, 472, 481, 489, 490 



hymenaja 489 



Paracornops 16 



longipenne 16 



Paramecium 441 



Paranarimii mobola 506 



Paraphlebia 461, 467, 468, 487 



hyalina 481 



Parazaptyx 579 



Paratettix toltecus 366, 368, 371 



Pardosa, 160-163, 168-170, 171, 210. 



211, 211, 284, 292, 300-302, 



316 



albomacukita 164,202 



albopateUa 177 



annulipes 164 



atra 164,172,188 



banksi 164, 173, 182 



bilineata 220 



brunnea 164,205 



califomica....l64, 173, 174, 192, 195 



canadensis 164 



coloradensis 164, 1^^ 



concinna 205 



disti.i-ta 164, 173, 174, 192 



dorsalis 164,209 



dromoea 164 



emsrtoni 164, 172, 174 



flavipes \Q>\,179 



florjdana 164 




666 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Pardosa fur oi fera 16 4, 



fusciila -?6-4,206, 



gracilis 



groenlandica, 164, 172, 174 

 200, 



impavida 



indigatrix 164, 



intrepida 



iracunda 164, 



labradorensis 164, 173, 205, 



lapidiana 



lapidicina, 164, 173, 174, 194, 

 197, 



littoralis 164, 



longispinata 164, 173, 



luteola 164,188, 



mackenziana 165, 173, 174, 



mercurialis 165, 197, 



mil\dna 165, 173, 174, 177, 



minima 165, 



modica 165,174,202, 



m. A'ar. brumiea 172, 



mcBsta 165,173, 



montana 165, 



nigra 



nigropalpis 165, 179, 



obsoleta 



pallida 165,179,191, 



parvula 



pauxiUa 165, 173, 174. 



saxatilis 1 65, 1 73, 



scita 165.179, 



sinistra 165, 



solivaga 



sternaUs 165, 172, 174, 185, 



tachypoda 165, 



texana 165, 



tristis 165, 



uncata 165, 



venusta ^ 165, 



xerampelina 165, 172, 



Parepiscopus 



Paropomala acris 371, 



calamus 



cylindrica 



dissimilis 



pallida 371, 



perpallida 368, 



virgata 



Paspalum glabra t ui 1 1 



Passerculus sandwiclu-nsis sax anna 



Passerella iliaca 



Passerina cyanea 



Pectinaria auricoma 



Peisidice aspera 



Pelobatidse 



Perilestes 



fragilis 478, 



Periplaneta americana 



Perithemis 



domitia intensa 481, 



207 

 207 

 217 

 189, 

 202 1 

 164 



164 

 202 

 207 

 514 

 195, 

 198 

 183 

 209 

 192 

 207 

 514 

 179 

 177 

 207 

 205 

 183 I 

 199 

 286 

 514 

 197 

 192 

 165 

 180 1 

 174 I 

 514 

 202 

 215 

 188 

 199 

 197 

 202 

 209 

 197 

 198 

 369 

 375 

 371 

 371 

 371 

 373 

 373 

 371 

 .15S 

 154 

 154 

 154 

 353 

 338 

 126 

 474 

 490 

 368 

 462 

 489 



Perithemis d. iris 487,489 



d. mooma 489 



Peromvscus nebracensis 404, 406 



riifinus 404 



truei nasutus 404 



Petalochlamys 594 



doenitzi 596 



perfragilis 596 



p. sakui 596 



p. shikokuensis 596 



planata 595 



planula 595 



quelpartensis 455 



rejecta 594-596 



serenus 5% 



subrejecta 455, 595, 596 



Petalogna'tiius 123 



Petroclielidon lunilVons 154 



Pheidole punctulata 508 



Phenacobius teretulus 546 



Phenacomys preblei 404, 406 



Philogenia^ 468,474 



Phimothvra 122 



Pholceminuta 338 



Phr\Tiosoma 117 



Phrvnotettix magnus 366, 393 



Phvllodactvlus 116 



pulclHT 116 



Phvllf)d()n" citrina 328, 328 



' mucosa ?,2S,828 



Phvllodocida" 328 



Phyllorhyncluis 122 



browni 122 



Physa 412,413 



Piava 492-501 



' boliviana 493, 496 



brachyptera 496 



cabanisi 495 



cauccT 492,495 



cayana 492-495,497-501 



c. boliviana 497, 501 



c. cabanisi 500 



c. caucjp 497, 499 



c. cayana 497 



c. coiumbiana 497, 498 



c. guanensis 498 



c. insulana 497, 498, 498 



c. macroura 497, 501 



c. mehleri 497, 499 



c. mexicana 497, 498 



c. nigricrissa 497, 500 



c. pallescens 497, 500 



circe AM, 501 



c. var. guauraina 501 



coiumbiana 493, 495, 497, 500 



columbianus 494, 498, 499 



guarania 495 



guianensis 494, 495 



insulana 493, 495, 499, 500 



macroura 493-497, 501, 501 



niacrourus 494 




190S.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



667 



Piaya mehleri 492, 494, 495, 499, 500 



melanogaster 496 



melanogastra 492, 495, 496 



mesurus 494 



mexicana 492, 494, 495 



mexicanus 494, 498 



minuta 495,496 



nigricrissa.... 493-495, 497, 499, 500 



pallescens 493-495,500 



rutila 496 



thermophila 499 



Pimephales notatus 523 



promelas 522 



Pionosvllis gigantea 325 



magnifica 325, 325, 326 



Pipa 125 



Pipilio erythrophthalmus 137, 154 



Piranga ervthromelas 133, 154 



Pirata, 160, 162, 163, 168, 169, 299, 299, 

 300, 301, 316 



agilis 165,307 



aspirans 165, 301, 303 



bilobata 165, 301, 315 



elegans 165,307 



exigua 165,303 



febriculosa 165, 301, 311 



humicolus 165, 301, 305, 306 



insularis 165, 301, 309, 311 



liber 165,311 



marxi 165, 301, 307, 309 



minuta 165, 305 



minutus 165, 301, 303 



montanoides 165 



montamis 165, 301, 306, 307 



nigromaculatus 165, 307 



piratica 165, 309, 313 



p. utahensis 301, 313 



procursus 199 



prodigiosa 165, 301, 313, 315 



sedentarius 165,313 



wacondana 165 



Pisaurida^ 168,300 



Pisidium 31 



japonicum 35 



Pista cristata 351 



fasciata 351 



Pityophis 121 



Planorbis 412,413 



Platanista 25 



Plathemis subornata 475, 488, 489 



Plat\Tiereis agassizi 344 



megalops 344 



Platypeltis 115 



ferox 115 



Plat\T3lax 468 



Platythyra 114 



Plectotropis 41, 453 



brevibarbis 594 



Plestiodon 118,119 



Plethodon 126 



Plethodontidff 126 



Pleurococcus 425 



Pleurodelida^ 126 



Pluchea sericea 367 



Posecetes gramineus 154 



Podarke pugettensis 341 



Polinices 555 



aulacoglossa 558, 559 



didyma 556-558 



d. ampla 556, 557 



d. bicolor 557 



d. vesicalis 557 



papjTacea 558 



tasmanica 556 



Pollicipes 107 



Polycirrussp : 353 



PolVnoe fragilis 332 



■' piilchra 329 



tuta 331 



PoljTioida' 329 



Poroderma stellare 52 



Porrima 293 



Potamia S99 



Potamillareniformis 359 



Potamothemis 461 



Prionace glauca 62 



Prionotus 620 



Priscodelphinus granda;vus....24, 25, 28 



Pristiurus 53 



Progne subis 154 



Progomphus 466, 468, 474 



integer 466 



obscurus borealis 488 



pygmteas 490 



serenus 466 



Proscalpelluin 107, 107 



Proteidse 127 



Proteus 125 



Protoneura 462, 468, 474, 478, 487 



aniatoiia 480,489 



aurautiaea 489 



remissa 480 



Protula geniculata 361 



Pseudemys 114 



concinna 114 



Pseudobranchus 127 



Pseudoficimia 122 



pulchra 122 



Pseudoleon 461, 462, 468 



superbus 480, 481, 489 



Pseudopotamilla anoculata 359 



brevibranchiata 360 



debilis 360 



intermedia 359 



occelata 360 



reniformis 359 



splendida 359 



Pseudosermyle truncata 371 



Pseudostignia 461, 467, 468 



aberrans 489 



Pseudotriton marginatum 126 




66S 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAD 10 MY OK 



[Dec. 



Psoloessa buddiana 381-383 



maculipennis 381 383 



texana 366, 367, 381, 388 



Ptychemys 114 



conciuna 114 



Punctum amblygona 455 



a. conoideum • 455 



Pupilla cryptodon 455 



Pupillida? :.. 42 



Pupinella ruf a 454 



Purpura 5 



lapillus 5 



Putorius arizonensis 404 



longicauda 404,406 



nigripes 404,406 



streatori leptus 404 



Pyramidula costulata 455 



elatior 455 



Pyrgomorphinse 12 



Pyrrhocorax columbianus 498 



guianensis 497 



mesurus 49S 



pallescens 500 



Pj^thia ffigialitis 35 



cecillei 35 



nana 35 



pachyodon 35 



scarabseus ■ 35 



Quercus michauxi 458 



Quiscalus quiscula 154 



Rana 125-441 



bufo 125 



ovalis 125 



temporaria 125 



Ranidffi 125 



Realia 39 



Regina kirtlandii 120 



Regulus calendula 156 



Reinia 561,562 



Rena 119 



dulcis 119 



Repentia • 116 



Rhabdosteus 28,29 



latiradax 24-30 



Rhadinea 123 



melanocephala 123 



obtiisa 123 



Rhinechis.; 121 



scalaris 121 



Rhineura 119 



Rhinichthys 529 



atronasus 526, 548 



cataractse 547. 549 



Rhinochilus 123 



lecontei 123 



Rhodopygia 468,474 



Riopa punctata 118 



Riparia riparia 154 



Romalea nuptialis 16 



Pi umex hastat ulus 458 



Rynchospora oligantha 458 



rariflora 458 



Sabella elegans 359 



formosa 358 



Sabellaria californica 358 



cementarimn 358 



Sabellida; 358 



Saccolepis gibba 458 



Salamandra attenuata 127 



gigantea 127 



glutinosa 126 



longicauda 126 



porphyriticus 126 



quadridigitata 126 



scutata 126 



Salentia 112, 124, 125 



Salvadora 122 



grahamia^ 122 



Samytha bioculata ..■ 350 



Saparus 17 



Sauromalus , 117 



ater 117 



Sayornis phoebe 133, 153 



Scalibregma inflatum 356 



Scalibregmida? 356 



Scalpellum 104-111 



angustum 109 



aurivillii 110 



bellum Ill 



californicuni 109 



calvaratum 109 



carinatum '. llO 



chiliense Ill 



cornutum 109 



diceratum 105 



dicheloplax 110 



edwardsi 110 



formosum Ill 



gibberum 109 



gibbum 109 



gracile Ill 



groenlandicum 109 



gruveli 110 



hamatum 109 



idioplax 1 10 



imperfectum 110 



inerme 109 



intermedium 1 10 



japonicum 110 



javanicuni 110 



laccadivicum 110 



larvale 110 



marginatum 110 



nipponense 110 



nymphocola 109 



ornatum 109 



osseuin 109 



patagonicum 109 



peronii 107 



pbantasma 110 



pressum 109 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHiLADELPHIA. 



669 



Scalpellum rostratuni 107, 108 



salartiae 109 



sanctsebarbarae 110 



scalpellum 105,108 



steamsi 105, 107 



stroemii 104, 109 



s. aduncum 109 



s. latirostrum 109 



s. luridum 109 



s. obesum 109 



s. septentrionale 109 



s. substroemii 109 



uncus 107 



velutinum 109 



villosum 106 



Scapanea 461 



frontalis 466 



Scaptocosa 163 



Scaphiopus 126 



bombifrons 126 



haniiiKindi 126 



solitarius 126 



Sceloporus torquatus 117 



Schistocerca 20 



gratissima 20 



lineata 20 



pallens 20 



vaga 366,393 



venusta 393 



Schizocosa 162, 163, 170, 210 



bilineata 165, 212, 218, 220 



charonoides 165 



gracilis 165 



humilis 165 



ocreata 165, 212, 215 



o. pulchra 165 



relucens 165 



rufa 165 



saltatrix 165, 212, 215 



stonei 165 



venustula 165, 217 



verisimilis 165 



Schizodelpliis canaliculatus 29 



sulcatus 29 



Scillselepas 107 



Scincidsp 118 



Scincus pavimentatus 118 



punctatus 118 



rufescens 118 



telfairi 118 



Scirpus torreyi 458 



Sciurus aberti concolor 404 



fremonti 404 



ludovicianus 406 



Scolecophis 123 



Scoliodon laticaudus 66 



terra?-novse 66 



Scotophis 121 



Scotussa 22 



brasiliensis 22 



Scudderia furcifera 398 



43 



Scyliorbinidae 52 



Scyliorhinus 53 



marmoratum 53 



Scyllina calida 366, 381 



Sciurvis aurocapillus 155 



noveboracensis 155 



Seminatrix 120 



pvg£eus 120 



Semotilus 529 



atromaculatus 525, 535 



buUaris 524 



Senecio crawfordii 459 



Sepsmurinus 118 



Serpentes 112,119 



Serpentia 116,119 



Serpula Columbiana 361, 362 



Serpulidse 361 



Setophaga ruti cilia 156 



Siagonodon 119 



Sialiasialis 156 



Sibon 123 



Sigaleonida- 338 



Sinica 38, 589, 590 



Siphonostoma villosum 357 



Sistrurus 124 



Siren 127 



lacertina 127 



striatus 127 



Sirenida> 127 



Sitala 598 



reinhardti 598 



ultima 598 



Sitaris 620 



hilaris 620 



Smilisca daulinia 125 



Smilium 106, 107, 107 



acutum 107 



aries 107 



longrostruni 107 



peronii 107 



pollicipedoides 107 



Scorpio 107 



sexcomutum 107 



uncus 107 



Solastes decemradiata 330 



Sorex obscurus 404, 407 



personatus 404, 406 



p. haydeni 407 



vagrans dobsoni 407 



Sosilaus 162, 163, 169, 298, 298 



spiniger 165,298 



Sosippus, 100, 162, 163, 168, 169, 292, 

 292, 293 



floridanus 165,293 



Spea 126 



Spelerpes 126 



lucifuga 120 



Sphterodactylus 110 



sputator 116 



Sphargis 113 



Sphyrapicus varius 153 




670 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Sphyrna blochii 66 



tiburo 66 



tudes 66 



zygsena 66 



Sphvmidae 66 



Spilbgale tenuis 404, 406 



Spilotes 121 



pullatus 121 



Spiropoma 586 



japoniciim 32, 454, 586 



j. chejuense 454 



j. tsushimanum 5S6 



nakadai 32 



yakushimanum 82 



Spirorbis granulata var. tridentata 362 



quadrangularis 362 



spirillum 362,364 



tridentata 362 



Spizella pusilla 154 



socialis 154 



Sporobolus longifolius 458 



Squalidce 68 



Squalius hyalope 524 



photogenis o44, 555 



Squalus acanthias 68 



africanum 53 



blaimalle 68 



canicula 53 



carcharias 63 



cirratus 54 



galeus 53 



japonicus 71 



punctatus 54 



uyato 53,69 



\ailpes 63 



Squamata 116 



Squatina squatina 70 



Squatinidfe 70 



Staiironereidse 347 



Stauronereis annulatus 347 



Steirodon thoracicus 399 



Stelgidopterj-x serrepennis 154 



Stenodelphis 25, 29 



Stenodera 620 



Stenoria 620 



Stereochilus 126 



Stereophsedusa 565, 567, 568 



Stereozaptyx 578,580 



Stemaspidse 357 



affinis 358 



fossor 358 



scutata 357 



Stemothoerus 114 



odoratus 114 



pennsylvanica 114 



Stichopus californica 330 



Stilpnochlora 398,399 



Stilosoma 122 



extenuatum 122 



Storeria 121 



Strobilops diodontina 455 



hirasei 455 



Stumella magna 154 



Succinea avara 46 



campestris 46, 48 



greeri 48 



obliqua 46-51 



ovalis 45-51 



o. chittenangensis 48, 49 



o. optima 48, 49 



putris 46 



retusa 46,50 



totteniana 46, 48, 50, 51 



Surirella 503 



Stypocnemis 120 



rufopunetatas 120 



Sybaris 620 



flaveola 620 



immunis 620 



picta 620 



Sycotypus 3-9 



canaliculatus 3 



SyUidfe 323 



SylUs 325 



borealis 323 



altemata 323 



armillaris 323,323 



quatemaria 325 



(Chsetosyllis) quatemaria 325 



Sylvilagus pinetis 404, 405 



SjTupetrum 462, 467, 468 



corruptum 462, 472, 481, 489 



illotiun virgulum 460, 481, 487 



Syrbula fusco-vittata ,366, 375 



modesta 368,375 



Syrrophus 125 



mamockii 125 



Tseniophis vermiculaticeps 123 



Tantilla 124 



coronata 124 



Tarentula, 221, 246, 249, 263, 268, 279 



baltimoriana 246 



inhonesta 238 



lepida 253 



modesta 261,270 



nidifex 240 



pudens 261 



pulchra 267 



scalaris 253 



tigrina 238 



Tauriphila 468 



argo 489 



azteca 489 



Taxidea taxus 404 



Teiidse 118 



Telagrion 461 



Telebasis 462, 468, 474 



digiticollis 481, 487, 489 



salva 481,487,490 



Telmatodytes palustris 156 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



671 



Terrapene 155 



clausa 115 



Terebella fasciata 351 



Terebellidse 350 



Terebellides stroeinii 322, 352, 353 



Testudinata 113 



Testudines 113 



Testudinidffi 114 



Testudo 113,115 



berlandieri 115 



caretta 115 



Carolina 115 



concentrica 114 



coriacea 113 



grseca 115 



guttata 114 



mydas 115 



polyphemus 115 



scorpioides 114 



serpentina 113 



terrapin 114 



Tettigonidse 398 



Thalassochelys 115 



Thamnopliis 120 



Thaumatoneura 461, 462, 467, 468 



Thecophora 113 



Thelepus hamatus 352 



Tholymis 462 



citrina 489 



Thomomys cliisius fuscus 404, 405 



fossor 404,405 



Thore 461 



Thyrosternum II4 



Tili qua fasciata 117 



Tmesidera 620 



Tofieldia racemosa 459 



Toluca 122 



lineata 122 



Tomodon nasutus 123 



Tomonotus aztecus 367, 386, 387 



ferruginosus 386 



Tortrix botta; 119 



Toxostoma ruf um 133, 137, 156 



Trabea 162. 163, 169, 295, 295 



aurantiaca 165, 296, 298 



Trachemys 11 4 



scabra 114 



Trachypterus ishikawse 319 



seleniris 319 



Tramea 462 



abdominalis 490 



cophysa 481 



insularis 489 



longieauda 488,489 



onusta 481,489 



Travisia forbesii 354 



pupa 355 



Trepidulus melleolus 367, 387 



rosaceus 366, 367, 387 



Tretosphys grandsevus 28 



Triakis felis 59 



semifasciatus 59 



Tribulus 601 



zegheri, 603, 604, 606, 609, 610, 

 612-615, 617, 618 



Tricca 284, 284, 285 



Trichochloritis 42 



Triglochin maritima 459 



Trimerotropis alliciens 390 



citrina 390 



cyaneipennis 391 



fascicula 389 



inconspicua 390 



modesta 390 



strenua 390 



Adnculata 368,390 



Trimorphodon 123 



lyrophanes 123 



Trionychidae 115 



Trionyx ajgypticus 115 



brongniartii 115 



euphraticus 115 



Trishoplita cretacea 593 



c. h^TJozona 593 



dacost je awajiensis 455 



hilgendorfi 34 



Triton ensatus 127 



Triturus fuscus 126 



viridescens 126 



Trochilus colubris 153 



Trochosa 162, 163, 221, 222, 284, 289 



avara 281 



cinerea 



contestata 



frondicola 



helvipes 



noctuabunda. 



parva 



pratensis 



purcelli 267 



rubicunda 



sepulchralis 



sublata 



Troglodytes aedon 



Trophonia papillata 



Tropidoclonium 



Tropidonotus 



dekayi 



sauritus 



scabripes 



torquata 



Tropinotus 



affinis 



Trypanosyllis gemmipara 328, 



misakiensis 



nigens 



Tj^jhlops nigricans 



septemstriatus 



Typosyllis armillaris 



Tyrannus t\Tannus 



TJlva 



513 

 261 



290 

 263 

 514 

 279 

 270 

 288 

 156 

 356 

 120 

 120 

 121 

 120 

 120 

 120 

 12 

 12 

 328 

 328 

 328 

 119 

 119 

 323 

 153 

 431 




672 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Uma 117 



notata 117 



Uracis fastigiata 490 



imbuta 487, 489, 490 



Urodela 126 



Urosalpinx 5 



Ursiis americanus 404 



Uta 117 



stansburiana 117 



Vallonia patens 37 



tenera 455 



Venatores 169 



Venus 6, 7, 9 



mercenaria 6 



Verticaria 118 



Vertigo japonica 455 



Viburnum alnifolium ^50 



lantanoides 450 



Vipera 121 



ferus 122 



Viperidse 122, 124 



Vireo flavifrons 155 



gilvus 155 



novaboracensis 155 



olivaceus 154 



soUtarius 155 



Virginia 123 



inomata 121 



valerise 123 



Vulpes macrourus 404 



Wenona 119 



plumbea 119 



Wilsonia canadensis 156 



Xantusia 118 



gilberti 118 



henshawi 118 



vigilis 118 



Xantusiida? 118 



Xerobates 115 



Xiphiola 17 



Xiphiolse 17 



Yersinia solitaria 369 



sophronica 366, 369 



Zablepsis 118 



Zamelodia ludov-iciana 154 



Zamenis... 121 



Zaptyx 576, 579, 580, 583 



Zapus princeps 404 



Zenaidura macroura 153 



Zonabris dicincta v. occidentalis.. 609 



Zoniopoda 16 



tarsata 16 



Zonitides 620 



Zonitis 620, 621, 623 



angolensis 622 



annulicomis 622 



antennalis 621 



ciconia 622 



622 



pnonocera baa 



scapularis 623 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



673 



C.ENERAL INDEX. 

 1908. 



Additions to the Museum, 644. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 636. 



Bladen, Elizabeth S., announcement of 

 death of. 456. 



Botanical Section, report of, 63S. 



Boyer, Charles S. Synonymy and 

 relationship of Surirella (no abstract), 

 503. On a new species of diatom of 

 the genus Cvmatopleura (Plate 

 XXVIII), 516, 554. Report of 

 Biological and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, 636. 



Brooks, William K., announcement of 

 death of, 503. 



Brown, Arthur E., Sc.D. Generic t^-pes 

 of Nearctic Reptilia and Amphibia, 

 44, 112. 



BroAATi, Stewardson. Report of Bo- 

 tanical Section, 638. 



Brusina, Spiridione, announcement of 

 death of, 457. 



Bullock, Benjamin, amiouncement of 

 death of, 456. 



Calvert, Philip P., Ph.D. General 

 results of nine years' study of the 

 dragon-flies of Mexico and Central 

 America (no abstract), 11. The 

 composition and ecological relations 

 of the Odonate Fauna of Me.xico and 

 Central America (Plate XXVI), 456, 

 460. 



Cattell, Henry W., M.D. On Trypano- 

 somiasis (no abstract), 44. 



Chamberlin, Ralph V. Animal names 

 and anatomical terms of the Goshute 

 Indians, 44, 74. Revision of North 

 American spiders of the family 

 Lvcosidaj (Plates VIII-XXIII), 

 158. 



Clarke, John IMason, award of Havden 

 medal to, 502. 



Colton, Harold Sellers. Charles Wilson 

 Peale and the Philadelphia Museum 

 (no abstract), 44. How Fulgur and 

 SycotjT^us eat oysters, mussels and 

 clams (Plates I-V), 3. Some effects 



of environment on the growth of 

 Lymnea columella Say, 410, 456. 



Conklin, Edwin G., Ph.D. On some 

 phenomena and causes of hereditj^ 

 (no abstract), 30. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 627. 



Council for 1909, 642. 



Curators, report of, 621. 



Dixon, Samuel G., M.D., and Henry A. 

 Pilsbry, Sc.D. Report of Curators, 

 631. 



Elections during 1908, 643. 



Entomological Section, report of, 637. 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on shai-ks, 

 44, 52. Synopsis of the Cvpriuidte 

 of Penns3'lvania (Plate XXVII), 

 516, 517. 



Freedly, William G., announcement 

 of death of, 4.56. 



General Index, 673. 



Harshberger, John W., Ph.D. On 

 the geographical study of bud 

 opening in connection with isother- 

 mal lines (no abstract), 157. The 

 directive influence of light on the 

 growth of forest plants (Plates XXIV, 

 XXY), 449, 456. 



Hayden Memorial .Vward, 1, 157, 502. 



Holt, Jacob F., announcement of 

 death of, 456. 



Index to Genera, 051. 



Ishikawa, Chiyomatsu, Ph.D. De- 

 scription of a new species of Squaloid 

 Shark, 44, 71. 



Keeley, Frank J. On secondarj^ crys- 

 tallization of early limestone and 

 demonstration of Bro-miian move- 

 ment (no abstract), 503. 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith. Report of 

 Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, 640. 



Maver, Gustav, announcement of death 

 of, 457. 



Medlicott, Henry B., announcement of 

 death of, 157. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 report of, 639. 




674 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 1908. 



Montgomery, Thomas H. Remarks 

 on Prof. Chamberlin's Revision of 

 North American Lycosidff. 503, 513. 



Moore, J. Percy, Pli.D. Some Poly- 

 chsetous Annelids of the northern 

 Pacific Coast of North America, 321, 

 456. Report of Corresponding Sec- 

 retary, 627. 



Nolan, " Edward J., M.D. Report of 

 Recorchng Secretary, 625. Report 

 of Librarian, 628. 



Officers, Councillors and Committee on 

 Accounts, 1909, 642. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 640. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. Notes on Succinea 

 ovalis Sav and S. obliqua Say 

 (Plate VII), 44, 45. On the classi- 

 fication of Scalpelliform Barnacles, 

 44, 104. A comparison of the land- 

 snail fauna of Korea with the faunas 

 of Japan and China, 452, 456. Geo- 

 graphical distribution of Strobilops 

 (no abstract), 503. Clausihidaj of 

 the Japanese Empire, XII (Plates 

 XXX, XXXI, XXXII), 516, 561. 

 Report of tlie Department of Mol- 

 lusca, 636. 



Pilsbry, H. A., and C. Montague Cooke. 

 On the teeth of Hawaiian species of 

 Helicina, 516, 560. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and Y. Hirase. 

 New land and fresh-water Mollusca 

 of the Japanese Empire, 30, 31. 

 New land shells from the Japanese 

 Empire, I, 30, 37. New land Mol- 

 lusca of the Japanese Empire, 516, 

 586. 



Pilsbry, H. A., and E. G. Vanaita. 

 Notes on Polinices didyma, with 

 description of a new "Australian 

 species (Plate XXIX), 516, 555. 



Potts, William, announcement of death 

 of, 503. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 625. 



Reese, Jacob, annoimcement of death 

 of, 2. 



Rehn, James A. G. Acridida? (Orth- 

 optera) from Sao Paulo, Brazil, with 

 descriptions of one new genus and 

 three new species, 11, 12. 



Rehn, James A.G., and Morgan Hebard. 

 An Orthopterological reconnoissance 

 of the southwestern United States. 

 Part I, Arizona, 365, 456. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 636. 



Report of Botanical Section, 639. 



Report of Corresponding Secretarv 

 627. 



Report of Curators, 621. 



Report of Entomological Section, 637. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 639. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 640. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 625. 



Reports of the Sections, 636. 



Ridings, James H., annoimcement of 

 death of, 44. 



Rosengarten, Samuel G., announce- 

 ment of death of, 456. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D. Report of 

 Entomological Section, 637. 



Snyder, John Otterbein. Description 

 of TrachA-pterus seleniris, a new 

 species of ribbon-fish from Mon- 

 terey Bay, California, 319, 456. 



Sorby, Henry Clifton, annoimcement 

 of death of, 44. 



Standing Committees, 1908, 1. 



Stewart, Thomas A., M.D. On the 

 bacillus of Svphilis (no abstj-act"), 

 503. 



Stone, Witmer. Geographical distri- 

 bution of plants and animals in 

 southern New Jersey (no abstract), 

 11. Methods of recording and util- 

 izing bird-migi-ation data, 128. A 

 review of the genus Piaya Lesson, 

 457, 492. Recent additions to our 

 knowledge of the flora of southern 

 New Jersey, 457. Report of Orni- 

 thological Section, 640. 



Trotter, Spencer, M.D. On the anat- 

 omy of the apes (no abstract), 157. 



True, Frederick W. Remarks on the 

 fossil cetacean Rhabdosteus latira- 

 dix Cope (Plate VI), 11, 24. 



"N'aux, William S., Jr., announcement of 

 death of, and minute, 456. 



Walcott, Charles D., presentation of 

 Havden Medal to, 1. 



Wellrnan, F. Creighton, M.D. On the 

 Meloidaj of Angola, 516, 600. On 

 the natural history of West Africa 

 (no abstract), 516. 



Wellman, F. Creighton, M.D., and 

 Walther Horn. On the Cicindelinae 

 of Angola, 503, 504. 



Whelen, Alfred, announcement of death 

 of, 503. 



Wood, Casey A., M.D. Eyes and eye- 

 sight of birds (no abstract), 2. 



Young, Robert T. Notes on the dis- 

 tribution of Colorado Mammals, 

 A\dth description of a new .species 

 of bat (Eptesicus pallidus) from 

 Boulder, 403, 456. 








PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHlLA. IfiOS 



PLATE XXV. 



HARSHBERGER ON INFLUENCE OF LIGHT. 





Pn f. Wrr,./..J\W/.Sri J'AiZa. /90S 



PLATE XXVI 



( P.P.Gtlrere eiflei pi«^. 

 i 



CALVERT, ODONATE FAUNA OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1908 



PLATE XXVIII 



CYMATOPLEURA SHULZEI BOYER. 





PROC ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XXIX 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA; ON POLINICES DIDYMA, ETC. 





PROC ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XXX. 



10 11 



PILSBRY: CLAUSILIID.^ OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XXXI. 



PILSERY: CLAUSILIlD^e OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1908. 



PLATE XXXII. 



PILSBRY; CLAUSILIIDvE OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE. 







MBL/WHOI LIBRARY 



UH IflS? 7 





