mr' 







Wi 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



VOLUME LVIII 



1906 



philadelphia : 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1906-1 907 




I 

 ^- SS 



The Academy of Natit-al Sciences of rHii.ADEi.piiiA, 



Febiu Ai;v 23, 19(^7. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Puoceedings for IflOO liiive liccii 

 mailed as follows : — 



Pages 1- 32 mailed May 18, 1906. 



3-64 ■' May 19,1906. 



65-112 '■ May 29, 1906. 



113-160 " June 20. 1906. 



161-2R0 •■ July 24, 1906. 



261-292 " August 21, 1906. 



293-356 " September 25, 1906. 



357-420 • October 19, 1906. 



421-428 •■ November 6,1906. 



429-460 •■ .January 7, 1907. 



461-508 " .January 16,1907. 



509-556 ■' February 19,1907. 



557-588 •■ March 8, 1907. 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D., 



Recording Secretury. 



PUBLICATION committee: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone, 



Edw.\rd J. Nolan, M.D. 

 The President. Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., cx-ofjido. 

 EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 




'i 



COXTENTS. 



For Annoimcements, Reports, etc., see GenernI Index. 



PAGE 



Baxks, Nathax. New Oribatidse from the I'uited States 



(Plates XIV-XVIII), 490 



Blatchley, W. S. On Some Reptilian Freaks from Indiana, . 419 



Brown, Stewakdson. Botanizing in the Canadian Rockies, . 429 



Chamberlaix, Ralph V. A New Lithobius from Colorado, 3 

 Fowler, Hexry W. Some Cold-blooded Vertebrates of the 



Florida Keys (Plates III and IV), 77 



Further Knowledge of Some Heterognathous Fishes, Part I, 293 



Note on the Dusky Salamander (Plate XIII), .... 356 



Description of Two New Species of Centropomus, 423 



Fm'ther Knowledge of Some Heterognathous Fishes, Part II, 431 



Some New and Little-known Percoid Fishes, 510 



McixDoo, N. E. On Some Fishes of Western Cuba, .... 484 

 Moore, J. Percy. Additional New Species of Polj'chspta from 



the North Pacific (Plates X, XI, XII), 217 



Descriptions of Two New Polychseta from Mexico, . 352 

 Descriptions of New Species of Polycha^ta from the South- 

 eastern Coast of Massachusetts (Plate XIX), . . . 501 

 Oberholser, Harry C. AMonogi-aphof theGemisCollocalia, . 177 

 PiLSBRY, Hexry- A. Description of a New Australian Glycymeris, 213 

 PiLSBRY", Hexry* A., and C. M. Cooke, Jr. On Hawaiian Species 



of SphjTadium, 215 



PiLSBRY, Hexry A., and J. H. Ferriss. MoUusca of the South- 

 western States, II (Plates V-IX), 123 



Mollusca of the Ozarkian Faima (Plates XX, XXI, XXII), . 529 

 Rehx, Jame.s a. G. Studies in South and Central -American 

 Acridinse (Orthoptera), with the Description;- ol" a New 



Genus and Six New Species, ... . . lO 

 Records and Descriptions of Non-Saltatorial (Jrthoptera 



from British Guiana, 262 



Descriptions of Five New Species of Orthoptera from Tonkin, 279 




IV CONTEXTS. 



PAGE 



Rehx, James A. G., and Morgan Hebard. A Contribution to 

 the Knowledge of the Orthoptera of Montana, Yellow- 

 stone Park, Utah and Colorado, 358 



Smith, Burnett, Ph.D. Phylogeny of the Races of Volutilithes 



petrosus (Plate II), 52 



Stevens, N. M., and A. M. Boring. Planaria Morgan! n. sp. 



(Plate I), 7 



Vaux, George, Jr., and William S., Jr. Observations on 

 Glaciers in Alberta and British Columbia (Plates XXITI 

 et seq.), 568 



Watts, Harvey M. Weather Predictions, 430 




PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1906. 



January 2. 



Mr. Arthur Erwix Browx, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had 

 been appointed to serve during the ensuing year: 



FiN.\NCE. — John Cadwalader, Edwin S. Dixon, Effingham B. Morris, 

 Horatio C. Wood, M.D., and George Vaux, Jr., Treasurer. 



Publications. — Henrj^ Skinner, M.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, D.Sc, 

 Witmer Stone, Phihp P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Edward J. Xolan, M.D. 



Libr.^ry. — Dr. C. Xewlin Peirce, Thomas A. Robinson, Thomas 

 Biddle, Jr., M.D., Benjamin Sharp, M.D., and George Vaux, Jr. 



Instruction. — Benjamin Smith Lyman, Henrj' A. Pilsbry, D.Sc, 

 Charles Morris, Pliilip P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Dr. C. Xewlin Peirce. 



Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Arthur Erwin Brown, 

 Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., John Cadwalader and Charles B. Pen- 

 rose, M.D. 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The Chair announced the deaths of the following : — 



Charles T. Yerkes, a member, December 29, 1905. 



George Bowdler Buckton, a correspondent, September 25, 1905. 



J. B. Ellis, a correspondent, December 30, 1905. 



Mr . Stewardson Brown made a communication on a botanical 

 trip to the Bermudas taken dm-ing the last summer. (No abstract.) 



January 16. 



Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



Dr. Sharp having taken the Chair, ]\Ir. A. E. Brown made a commu- 

 nication on theories of evolution since Darwin. (No abstract.) 



The following were elected members: 



H. S. Jennings, Robert G. LeConte, M.D., and Henry LefTman, M.D. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



A NEW IITHOBIUS FROM COLORADO. 



BY RALPH V. CHAMBERLIN. 



Lithobius harrietae sp. nov. 



Diagnosis. — Angles of the 9th, 11th, and 13th dorsal plates produced ; 

 articles of antennse 36; ocelli 11-12 in 3 series; prosternal teeth 2-2, 

 3-3; spines of first legs beneath 1,3,1, of penult 1,3,3,1 with 2 claws, of 

 anal 1,3,3,0 with 2 claws; coxal pores in 1 series, round, 4,6,6,5; length 

 11.5 mm. 



Description. — Dorsum brown with a black or blackish median longi- 

 tudinal stripe; head paler especially anteriorly; antennae brown or 

 yellowish-brown, paler distally; legs yellow; venter yeUow, darkest 

 over middle portion. 



Head wider than long (85 : 78), widely truncate or slightly incurved 

 behind, lateral margins moderately convex behind posterior end of 

 eye patch, then converging to liases of antenna, anterior margin of 

 head between antenna substraight; two furrows extending trans- 

 versely between eyes concave anteriorly, the posterior one usually 

 giving off two branches which converge caudally and meet in a point 

 on the median line; each posterior lateral portion of head marked with 

 one or several sharply impressed curved lines. 



Ocelli arranged in an oblong patch in three series ; 11 or 12 in number, 

 1 -1-4,4,2(3); single ocellus large, vertically elliptical; first eye of upper 

 row larger than others excepting the single one. 



Antennae short, consisting of 36 articles of short length, the ultimate 

 conical, in length about equalling the two preceding together; articles 

 in specimens examined nearly glabrous, possibh^ due to rubbing. 



Prosternal teeth 2-2, 3-3; when 3-3 the external tooth on each side 

 more widely separated from the median than the latter from the in- 

 ternal. 



Angles of the 9th, 11th, and 13th dorsal plates produced; 1st and 3d 

 scuta considerably sinuate posteriorly, 5th slightly so, 7th straight, 

 8th, 10th and 12th sinuate. 



Spines of first legs oXg'i'oJ of the penult qYsVi' *^^^ ^^'^^''' ^^^^^ ^ spine; 

 of the anal o'i'3'3^, the claw with 1 spine. 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Coxal pores in 1 series, round, 4,6,6,5. 



Gonopods of female with claw tripartite, the lobes rather short; 

 basal spines 2-2, or 3-3, stout, acutely pointed above middle, the inner 

 smallest. 



Length of body 11.5 mm.; width 10th plate 1.6 mm.; length of an- 

 tennae 3.3 mm. ; of anal legs 4 mm. 



Locality. — Near Glenwood Springs, Col. 



The types consist of four adults. 




1906.1 NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHiA. 



February 6. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the follow- 

 ing titles had been presented for publication: 



"Mollusca of the Southwestern States, III," b}- Henry A. Pilsbiy 

 (Januarj- 24). 



' ' A Xew Lithobius from Canada, ' ' by Ralph V. Chamberlain (Janu- 

 ary 26). 



"Some Cold-blooded Vertebrates of the Florida Keys," by Henry 

 W. Fowler (January 29). 



"Studies in South and Central American Acrididije (Orthoptera), 

 with the descriptions of a new genus and six new species," by James 

 A. G. Rehn (February 2). 



"Fiu-ther Knowledge of some Heterognathus Fish&s," by Henry 

 W. Fowler (Februarj' 6). 



Mr. Witmer Stone made a communication on certain o-ni- 

 thologists of the past, giving incidents in the lives and commenting 

 on the works of Catesby, William Bartram. Barton, Wilson, Charles 

 Lucien Bonaparte, Audubon. John K. Townsend, William Gamble, 

 John Cassin and Samuel W. Woodhoiuse. (No abstract.) 



The Council reported that the President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., 

 had been appointed to represent the Academy at the approaching 

 celebration of the 200th amiiversary of the birth of Benjamin Franklin 

 by the American Philosophical Society. 



February 20. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwix Brown, Mce-President, in the Chair. 

 One hundred and six persons present. 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY UF [Feb., 



The Publication Committee reported that a ]5aper entitled "Planaria 

 morgani n. sp.," by N. M. Stevens and A. M. Boring, had been pre- 

 sented for publication (February 14). 



The deaths of Charles Smith, a member, ]\Iarch, 1905. and of John 

 C. Wilson, a member, February 19, 1906, were announced. 



]\Irs. Charles Schaeffer made a communication on the caves and 

 flowers of the Cougar Vallej' in the Selkirks. (No abstract.) 



The following were elected members: 



D. H. Tennent, R. E. B. McKenny, and Edward S. Miles. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



PLANARIA MOKGANI n. sp 

 BY N. M. STEVENS AND A. M. BORING. 



ISize. — Length 10-12 mm., width in the region of the pharynx 1.6 

 mm., at the level of the eyes 1 mm. 



Form. — Head wedge-shaped, no aiiricidar appendages, posterior 

 end obtuse, thickness slight compared with Planaria maculata or P. 

 simplicissima (Plate I, figs. 1 and 2). 



Color. — ^White and translucent; digestive tract often colored green, 

 yellow, brown, or red by food recently ingested. 



Eyes. — ^Two, crescent-shaped, situated far back and near together 

 (PI. I, figs. 1^). 



Nervous System. — Cephalic ganglia large and distinct, connected by 

 a broad commissure, lateral nerve cords as in P. maculata, two promi- 

 nent nerves extending forward from below the eyes (Plate I, fig. 4). 



Pharynx. — Single, much elongated, centrally located in forms with 

 functional sexual organs, posterior to the center in forms which are 

 reproducing asexually (Plate I, figs. 1 and 2). Digestive tract as in 

 the typical triclads with little anastomosis of branches (fig. 3). 



Reproductive Organs. — Ovaries two, situated ventrally between the 

 anterior axial division of the gut and its first lateral branches, some- 

 times lobed, and often extending nearly to the doreal epidermis 

 (Plate I, fig. 4). Oviducts following a spiral course dorsal and slightly 

 lateral to the nerve cords, back to the region of the atrial organs, 

 where they converge and unite into a short common oviduct which 

 enters the atrium dorsal to the opening of the uterus stalk, instead of 

 entering a vagina as in P. maculata (Curtis, '02). Spermatozoa are 

 often found massed at the anterior end of the oviducts. Yolk glands 

 lie between all of the main branches of the gut dorsal to the testes. 

 Testes many, irregular in form and variable in size, scattered between 

 the branches of the gut, for the most part ventral and median to the 

 nerve cords, and extending from the region of the ovaries to the 

 posterior end of the pharynx (fewer and larger than in P. maculata). 

 Distinct seminal vesicles extending posteriorly from the last pair of 

 testes {v.s., Plate I, figs. 5 and 6). Vasa deferentia broad, short and 




'8 '' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



only slightly coiled, entering the anterior enlargement of the lumen of 

 the penis nearly at right angles. Penis short and broad, nearly filling 

 the atrium (similar to that of P. macidata). Uterus large, dorsal, ex- 

 tending forward nearly to the pharynx chamber; stalk of the uterus 

 passing to the left side, dorsal to the vasa deferentia and oviducts, 

 and entering the atrium laterally and ventral to the entrance of the 

 common oviduct (Plate I, figs. 5 and 6). 



Reproduction by Fission. — Like Planariu rnaculata, this species 

 reproduces both sexually and asexually. Indications that fission had 

 occurred were observed in Mav, 1901-1905, In 'Sla.y, 1905, while all 

 the individuals in one branch of a certain stream were sexuaUj' mature 

 and depositing egg-capsules, those in another branch of the same 

 stream were found in aU stages of fission and regeneration (Plate I, 

 figs. 7-10). During the last week of May and first week of June a few 

 individuals showed regenerating atrial organs. The same difference, 

 as to sexual maturity and fission, was observed in collections from the 

 two branches of the stream in October, and at the date of wTiting 

 (February 7th) there are no sexually mature worms among the thirty 

 to forty specimens which were reproducing by fission when brought 

 into the laboratory in October. About half of the number have 

 divided in the acjuarium. Fission occurs at a point nearer the pharynx 

 than in P. macidata (fig. 7). 



Regeneration. — Both anterior and posterior regeneration at all levels 

 proceeds much as in P. simplicissima, but both regeneration and form 

 regulation are more rapid. 



Habitat. — Planaria morgani is foimd on the under side of stones and 

 dead leaves in a small stream, one branch of which flows through the 

 Bryn Mawr College campus. The authors have not found it elsewhere. 



Explanation of Pl.vte I. 



Fig. 1. Freehand sketch of li\ing planarian, magnified five times. Atrial 

 organs present (a). Limits of the digestive tract indicated by dotted out- 

 line. 



Fig. 2. Same of an indi\'idual mthout atrial organs. 



Fig. 3. Camera drawing of whole mount, showing pharjmx and branches of the 

 digestive tract. Magnification 10 diameters. 



Fig. 4. Reconstruction from camera drawings of frontal sections, showing 

 cerebral ganglia, lateral nerve cords, cephalic nerves, eyes, and ovaries. 

 Mag. 35 d. 



Fig. 5. Reconstruction of reproductive system from a series of frontal sections, 

 dorsal aspect. p.=pharynx. i. =testis. od. =o^iduct. I'.s. =vesicula 

 seminalis. M.=uterus. p.^ =penis lumen. pe.=penis. a.=atrium. c.o. 

 = common o\i duet. r. = reproductive pore. u.s. =uterus stalk. Mag. 10 d. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



Fig. 6. Similar reconstruction from sagittal sections. Left-hand aspect. 0\i- 

 duct and vas deferens of right side omitted. Lettering as above. Mag. 10 d. 



Fig. 7. Freehand sketch of the anterior piece of a living specimen soon after 

 fission. Mag. 5 d. 



Fig. 8. Simil;ir dra-ning from a larger anterior piece several days after fission, 

 shomng considerable regeneration. 



Fig. 9. Posterior piece soon after fission, showing the two separate branches 

 of the digestive tract. Mag. 10 d. 



Fig. 10. Similar posterior piece after several days' regeneration (probably about 

 a week). Branches of digestive tract united and new pharjTix and eyes 

 formed. Mag. 10 d. 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



STUDIES IN SOUTH AND CENTRAL AMERICAN ACRIDINS: (ORTHOPTERA), 

 WITH THE DESCRIPTIONS OF A NEW GENUS AND SIX NEW SPECIES. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHX. 



The .subfamily treated in the followin.2: page.? is usually termed the 

 TruxaliiiEe, but the resurrection of the C)ld World Linntean genus 

 Acrida necessitates the use of the name Acridinae. 



Of this subfamily b}- far the majority of the South and Central 

 American genera have been studied in this connection and niunerous 

 opinions and conclusions regarding their relationship are given in the 

 following pages, while several genera, or subgenera, have been con- 

 sidered untenable and one new one proposed. The consideration of 

 several T;\Tongly identified or overlooked species caused a shifting of 

 generic names, whicli necessitated in one case a new generic name. 



Twenty-two genera have been considered in more or less detail, and 

 sixty-three species, of which six are new, have been examined. The 

 material examined numbered six himdred and twenty specimeas, of 

 which two hundred and sixty-seven were from the Academy Collection, 

 three hundred and twenty-eight from the Hebard Collection, and 

 twenty-five from various sources. 



I wish to express my thanks to Mr. Hebard for the privilege of 

 examining the material from his collection. 



HYALOPTERYGES. 

 HYALOPTERYX Charpentler. 

 1845. Hyalopteryx Charpentier, Orthopt. Descr. et Depict., tab. 46. 

 Type. — H. rufipennis Charpentier. 



From its closest allies Hyalopteryx can be separated as follows: 

 from Radinotatum by the presence of well developed tegmina and wings, 

 the caudal expansion of the pronotum and the much shorter rostrum 

 and less produced head; from Achurum by the more robust form, 

 the caudal expansion of the pronotum (more or less pronounced ac- 

 cording to the sex), the much broader tegmina and wings as well as the 

 shorter, blunter rostrum and less produced head; from Eidryxalis in 

 the longer, slender limbs, the somewhat broader tegmina, the shorter 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



rastrum, and the more fenestrate wings of the male; from Tni.rnlis in 

 the longer, more produced rostrum, the more angulate caudal 

 margin of the pronotum, the slender caudal limbs and the broader, 

 less subequal tegmina; from Orphula in the characters which 

 separate it from Truxalis. The genus Hyalopteryx appears to con- 

 nect two extremes of the series, one extreme represented by Radi- 

 7wtatum. a quite peculiar type, and Achunan, and the other by Truxalis 

 and Orphula, Euirijxalis apparently sharing the intermediate position, 

 but really being closer to Truxalis. The sequence of genera which 

 appears most natural in the Hyalopteryges is: 



Radinotatum McNeill. 



Achurum Saussure. 



Hyalopteryx Charpentier. 



Eutryxalis Bruner. 



Truxalis Fabricius. 



Orphula Stal. 



Hyalopteryx rufipennis Charpentier. 



1S4.T. Hi/(d(iplcn/x rufipennis Charpentier, Orthopt. Descr. et Depict., 

 tab. 46'. [Brazil.] 



Sapucay, Paragtiay. December 13, 16, 19, 1904. March 7, 1902. 

 February 13 and 15, March 6, 7 and 9, 1905. (Foster, Hebard Coll.) 

 Eleven d^ c? , eleven 9 9 . 



These specimens appear from Charpentier's description and figure 

 to be the same form as he called i-ufipcnnis. The de.scription particu- 

 larly mentions the distinct lines on the metazona, and states that the 

 lateral carinse are similar to the median, which would hardly have 

 been said if the metazona was irregularly lineato-rugose and the lateral 

 earinae faint and strongly expanded on the metazona, as in the new 

 specie.s here described as H. asimis. Of the caudal femora he says: 

 "Die Hinterschenkel .... oben eine fein erhabene Linie, die vorn 

 am Knie in eine ganz kleine Spitze ausgeht, woselbst seitwiirts zwey 

 weit grossere hervorragen, wie Stacheln." From this and the com- 

 parative proportions of the structures mentioned above and the sub- 

 genital plate as figured in his plate it is very evident that the vSapucay 

 specimens are either Charpentier's rufipennis or a very closely related 

 new species. Burr's H. exaggerata,'- the only other previously de- 

 scribed species, possesses elongated genicular structures as in my new 

 asinus. , 



The series examined is quite uniform, a little variation in size being 



' Trans. Ent. Soc. London, 1902, pt. II, p. 183. [Chiquitos, Bolivia.] 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



noticed and a little in the intensity of fine blackish macvilations on 

 the dorsum, a few specimens being almost free from the latter while 

 others have a "salt and pepper" effect. 



Hyalopteryx asinus n. sp. 



Types: c? and 9 ; Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo (r?), Jundiahy, Sao Paulo 

 ( 9 ), Brazil. September 14, 1900 (J), February 24, 1899 ( 9 ). (Hem- 

 pel [(f], Schrottky [ 9 ].) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



Allied to H. rufipcnnis Charpentier, but differing in the larger size 

 and slenderer limbs in both sexes, and in the male in the bullate meta- 

 zona, the broader, more acute tegmina, the elongate internal genic- 

 ular processes of the caudal femora and the extremely elongate sub- 

 genital plate. The Bolivian H. exaggerata Burr is a close ally as 



Pig. 1. — Hyalopteryx asinus n. sp. Lateral view of male type. (X 2.) 



shown by the genicular structures mentioned in the brief original 

 description, but it can be separated by the yellow anal field of the 

 wings and by inference by other characters, as the author says: "In 

 venation and structure, this form resembles H. rufipennis. ' ' 



Size rather large ; form elongate, very distinctly compressed , greatly so 

 in the male; surface rngulose and covered with scattered whitish hairs, 

 both the character of the surface and the hairs being much more pro- 

 nounced in the male than the female. Head about equal to the pro- 

 notum in length in the male, distinctly shorter in the female, the 

 occiput much more ascendent in the male than in the female ; f astigium 

 projecting beyond the eyes a distance equal to the width at the cephalic 

 margin of the eyes, lateral margins parallel in the male, slightly con- 

 verging in the female, the apex with a rounded angle, lateral sections 

 more distinctly depressed and the short medial carina more apparent 

 in the female than in the male; face very strongly retreating in the 

 male, slightly less in the female; frontal costa narrow, moderately 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPmA. 



13 



excavated dorsad and mesad, verj' strongly compressed doread , slightly 

 broader and parallel to the ocellus, gently but regularh- diverging to 

 the clypeus, the margins in the male all more or less sinuate; antennae 

 of the male distinctly but not greatly exceeding the head and prono- 

 tum in length, strongly ensiform, depressed, greatest width not con- 

 tained more than seven times in length, the proximal section slender 

 and the apex acute; eyes elongate subovoid, much more acute cephalad 

 in the female than in the male, the infraocular sulcus slightly greater 

 than the length of the eye in both sexes. 



Pronotum of the male distinctly, but not very greatly, expanded 

 and sub-buUate on the metazona, of the female with the metazona 

 but very slightly broader than the prozona, the lateral carinae slightly 

 and regularly expanding caudad ; cephalic margin subtruncate. caudal 

 margin obtuse-angulate in the male, obtuse in the female but with 

 the angle more acute and the side margins subemarginate ; median 

 carina distinct in both sexes, but apparently more prominent in the 

 female than in the male; lateral carinae of the male parallel on the 

 cephaUc portion of the prozona and following the ' ' shoulder ' ' on the 

 metazona; prozona equal to the length of the metazona in the male. 



Hyalopteryx asinus n. sp. Fig. 2. — Dorsal \-iew of head and pronotum of male 

 type. Fig. 3. — Lateral \-iew of genicular region of caudal femur of male type. 

 Fig. 4. — Dorsal view of head and pronotum of female t^-pe. (X 2.) 



very slightly shorter in the female; metazona in the male with the 

 dorsal rugae broken, irregular, and not stricti)- longitudinal, in the 

 female more regular than in the male but not strongly marked ; lateral 

 lobes with the dorsal length very considerably greater than the depth, 

 cephalic and caudal margins converging except for a short parallel 

 ventral section, the ventral margin sinuate-oblicjue. Tegmina of the 

 male broad, the greatest width about a fourth the distance from the 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



apex and contained slightly less than four times in the length; costal 

 margin moderately arcuate, apex acute, the sutural margin straight 

 with the apical fourth obtusely deflected to the apex, which consider- 

 ably exceeds the tip of the subgenital plate. Tegmina of the female 

 lanceolate, exceeding the tips of the caudal femora by about the length 

 of the head, greatest width about a third the distance from the apex, 

 which is acute; greatest width contained about six and a half times in 

 the length; costal margin arcuate distad,the sutural margin straight 

 for about four-fifths the length, the apical fifth obliquely deflected 

 to the apex. Wing of the male very nearly two-thirds the length of 

 the tegmen; costal margin strongly arcuate, the apex rectangulate; 

 hyaline ulnar area with the width contained about two and a half 

 times in the width of the entire wing, complete transverse veins eight 

 in number. Interspace between the mesosternal lobes very distinctly 

 longitudinal in the male, subquadrate in the female; interspace be- 

 tween the metasternal lobes narrow, slightly longitudinal in the male, 

 transverse quadrate in the female. Abdomen more distinctly com- 

 pressed in the male than in the female; male subgenital plate enor- 

 mously produced, compressed, the apical section needle-like, the length 

 ecjual to that of the pronotum. 



Cephalic and median limbs slender, femora very slightly arcuate in 

 the male. Caudal femora very slender and elongate, the greatest 

 width in the male being about nine times in the length, about eight 

 and a half in the female, exceeding the tip of the subgenital plate 

 proximal portion hardly inflated, but almost regularly tapering to the 

 apex, carinse distinct, pattern of thepagina distinct, acute-angulate and 

 but shallowly impressed, genicular lobes in both sexes produced, the 

 dorsal angles of the genicular region produced into broad, somewhat 

 flattened, acute-angulate processes, in the male that of the internal 

 face over twice the length of the external and as long as the femoral 

 depth, in the female the processes of the two sides subequal; caudal 

 tibise slender, very slightly shorter than the femur, lateral margins 

 with seventeen to eighteen spines in the male, nineteen in the female; 

 tarsi with rather small arolia. 



General color dorsad russet sprinkled and washed with mununy 

 brown, ventral color pale cinnamon. Head in the male wth the cari- 

 nse spotted with mvmimy brown and two rather faint postocular lines 

 of the same color present ; eyes in the male mars brown, in the female 

 Vandyke brown. Pronotimi with a pair of irregular dark bars on the 

 lateral carina. Tegmina in the male liberallj' sprinkled with small 

 mummv brown and bistre maculations. Wings with the costal margin 




1906.] N.\TUR.\.L SCIENCES OF PHIL.\DELPHI.i. 15 



of the hyaline uhiar area and the cross veins of the same canary yellow, 

 the costal section of the wing wood brown clouded with vandyke 

 brown; anal field proximad rather pale scarlet, distal section smoky 

 hyaline, between the two a very distinct and moderately broad bar 

 of hazel. Caudal limbs of the general color of the ventral surface. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 



Length of pronotum, 



Length of tegmen, 



Greatest width of tegmen, 



Length of caudal femur, 18.3 



A paratypic series of three males has been examined in addition 

 to the type. One is from Jundiahy (Schrottky), and the others from 

 Sao Paulo (.September 14, 1900; Hempel). The.se specimens do not 

 differ appreciably except very slightly in color and in the slightly greater 

 size of the Jundiahy male. 



EUTRYXALIS Bruner. 

 1900. Eutrijxalis Bruiier, .\cc. Gen. and Spec. Locusts Argent., pp. 22, 24. 

 Included Metaleptea minor Bruner (not of Giglio-Tos) and Eutrijxa- 

 lis strigata Bruner, of which the former { = Hyalopteryx gracilis GigVio- 

 Tos) is the type. 



This genus is closely related to Hyalopteryx, but differs in the char- 

 acters given under that genus. 



Eutryzalis gracilis (Giglio-Tos). 



1897. H[iialoptery.r] gracilis Giglio-Tos, BoUett. Mus. Zool. ed Anat. 

 Comp. Torino, XII, No. 302, p. 22. [San Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina ; 

 Caiza, Boli\-ian Chaco.] 



1900. Eu[tnj.ralis] minor Bruner, .\cc. Genera and Spec. Locusts Argent, 

 p. 24. (Not Metaleptea minor Giglio-Tos.) [.Argentina ; common through- 

 out the pro^•inces nortli of the Rio Colorado.] 



Sapucay, Paraguay. February 10-15, March 2-10, 1905. Seven 

 d'c?, ten"9 ? . [Foster, Hebard"Coll.] 



These specimens are quite uniform in size, and in color have the 

 browns and greens distributed in the bicolored individuals as seen in 

 Truxalis. No uniform brown specimen has been examined. 



The possession of two males and three females of this species from 

 Carcarafia, Argentina, received from Prof. Bruner and labelled Eutryxa- 

 lis minm- Giglio-Tos, enabled the author to clear up a rather unfortunate 

 and complicated question of misidentification. A male and female 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



specimen of Metaleptea minor Giglio-Tos, received through Dr. Borelli 

 (the collector of the types) from the Turin Museum, show that the 

 species really is an Orphula and not closely related to Truxalis {Meta- 

 leptea Bruner), while the specimens determined by Bruner really 

 are Hyaloptenjx gracilis, answering the description very well. The 

 species is quite distinct from Hyaloptenjx and well worthy of generic 

 separation. 



From the known records this species appears to be distributed over 

 a large area, extending from Caiza in the Bolivian Chaco to the Rio 

 Colorado, and east to the Paraguay river region. 



TEUXALIS Fabricius. 

 Truxalis brevioornis (Johansson). 



Bartica, British Guiana. May 25, 1901. c? ? . (Crew, A. N. S. P.) 

 Sao Paulo, Brazil. September 7 and 14, 1900. 4 d'd', 2 ? 9 . (Hem- 

 pel, A.N.S.P.) Jundiahy, Brazil. ?. (Schrottky, A.N.S.P.) Corumba, 

 Brazil (lowland). March. 5 d'c?. (H. H. Smith, U. S. N. M.) Sa- 

 pucay, Paraguay. February 10-17, March 2-21, 1905. 10 d'c?, 17 

 9 9 . (Foster, Hebard Coll.) 



This series presents examples of all the color phases noticed in this 

 widely distributed species. 



Records for this species include Buenos Ayres and San Lorenzo, 

 Argentina, Villa Rica and Asuncion, Paraguay, and Caiza, Bolivia, 

 as well as numerous localities north of Brazil. Bruner says it is " found 

 throughout the Republic [Argentine] north of the Rio Colorado, 

 especially along the eastern border."^ 



ORPHULA Stai. 

 1873. Orphula Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 105. 

 Included pagana (Stal), plebeia (Stal), intricata Stal and punctata 

 (De Geer), of which pagana has been selected as the type by Giglio-Tos.^ 



Orphula pagana (Stai). 



1860. Gomphocerus {Hyalopleryx) paganus Stkl, Kongliga Svenska Fregatt. 

 Eugenies Resa, Zool., I, In.s., p. 339. [Rio Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Sao Paulo, Brazil. September 1 and 5, 1900. 2 9 9. (Hempel, A. 

 N. S. P.) Chapada, Brazil. April. 2 c?, 1 9 . (H. H. Smith, U. S. 

 N. M.) Corumbd, Brazil (lowland and highland). March. 2 9 9. 

 (H. H. Smith, U. S. N. M.) Sapucay, Paraguay. February 6-13, 



' Ace. Gener. and Spec. Locusts Argent., p. 23, 1900. 



' Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 9. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



March 6-19, 1905. 7c?c?, 10 9 9. (Foster, Hebard Coll.) Asun- 

 cion, Paraguay. 2 c? (5", 2 9 9. (A. N. S. P.) 



The specimens from Corumba are slightly larger than individuals 

 of the same sex from the other localities. Considerable variation 

 also exists in the form of the fastigium, the 9 from Chapada having 

 it rather broad, but otherwise inseparable, while one individual from 

 Sapueay has the same portion more acute than usual, in a considerable 

 measure approaching 0. minor. The tips of the tegmina are sharper 

 and more acute in individuals from Chapada, Corumba and Sao Paulo 

 than in .-^uncion specimens, but the series from Sapueay includes 

 practically both extremes. Some specimens have the dorsal dark 

 lines absent and the coloration but little varied. 



The species lias previously been recortled from Santos, Brazil, 

 Formosa and Resistencia nel Chaco, Argentina. 



Orphula minor (GigIio-Tos).» 



1897. :M[ela}eptea] minor Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. .\nat. Comp. 

 Torino, XII, No. 302, p. 23. [San Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina; Caiza and 

 Aguairenda, Boli^-ian Chaco.] 



Caiza, Bolivia. (BoreUi, A. N. S. P.) One c?. 



Chaco. (Borelli. A. N. S. P.) One 2 . 



These authentic specimens, received from the Turin iluseum, show 



tliat the species is a member of the genus Orphula and closely related 



to 0. pagana. From the latter species it differs in the slenderer head. 



with less prominent and somewhat longer ej'es, and the more acute 



fastigium. 



MERMIRI^. 



SYRBULA Stal. 



The genus Syrbula presents two extreme types, one represented by 

 admirabilis, and the other by inontezuma and eslarae. These extremes 

 might with justice be separated, as has provisionally been done bj- 

 the author {i.e., subgenus Herus), but for the presence of a tjrpe like 

 <S. acuticornis , which is clearly an annectant form. 

 Syrbula monteznma (Saussiire). 



Tlie sjiecimens from Cuernavaca, ^Mexico, previouslj' recorded by 

 the author as 5. valida and eslavce, and from La Joya, San Luis Potosi, 

 Mexico, are referable to this species, which is closely related to S. 

 eslavce and differs chiefly in the less constricted lateral carinae of the 

 pronotum. 



'Bolivar's Orphula jucunda (Adas Soc. Espaii. Hist. Nat.. XXV, p. 1.5) from 

 the Piio Atalapo is probably a member of this genus, but apparently quite dis- 

 tinct from either 0. pagaiia', witli wliich it was originally compared, or 0. minor. 



2 




18 J PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Syrbula eslavae Rehn. 



1900. Sijrbula eslavoe Rehn, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXVII, p. 90. [Es- 



lava, D. F., Mexico.] 

 1900. Syrbula (Hems) valida Rehn, Ibid, p. 91. [Eslava, D. F., Mexico.] 



These two names were applied to the sexes of the same species. 



AMBLYTROPIDIiE. 



AMBLYTKOPIDIA StM. 



AmblytTopidia ferruginosa St,^l. 



1873. A[mblytropidici] ferruginosa Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 107. 

 [Brazil.] 



Sapucay, Paraguay. December 19 and 20, 1901. April 30, 1902. 

 February 13-27, March 2-11, 1905. 9 d'c?, 12 9 9 . (Foster, 

 Hebard Coll.) 



These specimens are assigned here with some little doubt, as they 

 are larger than Stal's measurement of the female type (length 25 

 millimeters). 



The females all show more or less blackish-brown maculations on the 

 tegmina, and the males have the caudal femora strong!}^ rose-colored 

 with the genicular regions blackish. In the latter respect they appear 

 to approach the very brief characterization of australis, but the an- 

 tennae are longer and the general coloration rather different. The 

 latter character is of very uncertain value in this genus, as the extremes 

 of one species are quite different, considering A. occidentalis a repre- 

 sentative form. 



Amblytropidia australis Bruner. 



1904. [Aiiibli/tropidia] australis Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, pp. 62, 

 64. [Argentina.] 



Chapada, Brazil. April and June. 2 c?c?, 1 9. (H. H. Smith, 

 U. S. N. M.) 



As the original description of this species is extremely brief, little 

 can be gleaned from it to aid in identifying material. In the material 

 examined the tegmen are darker near the costal margin than elsewhere, ' 

 and a median dark line is present on the head and pronotimi of the 

 female and the pronotum of one male. The genicular regions are 

 obscured with dark color in both sexes, but more strongly in the male 

 than in the female. 



The range of the species is here extended north of its previous limit, 

 Caiza, Bolivian Chaco. 



Amblytropidia vittata Giglio-Tos. 



1894. A[>nblylropidia] vittata Giglio-Tos, BoUett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. 

 Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 13. [Luque, Paraguay.] 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil. September 1 and 7. 1900. 2 9 9. 

 (Hempel, A. N. S. P.) 



The coloration of these two specimens is generally similar, but one 

 has a longitudinal pale green bar on the proximal portion of each teg- 

 men. This specimen also has a median line on the head and pronotum 

 quite dark, while the other individual is devoid of any striking markings. 



Amblytropidia trinitatis Bruuer. 



1904. Amblytropidia trinitatis Bruner, Biol. Ceat-.\mer. , Orth., 11, pp. 63, 

 65. [Demerara, British Guiana; Trinidad.] 



Trinidad, West Indies. 1 c?. (H. D. Chipman, through Bruner, 

 A. N. S. P.) Venezuela. 1 c?. A. N. S. P. 



The Venezuela male is inseparable from the topotypic specimen. The 

 range of the species is considerably extended bj- the Venezuela record. 



Amblytropidia auriventris McXeill. 



1897. [Amblytropidia] auriventris McXeill, Proc. Davenport .\cad. Xat. 

 Sci., VI, p. 227. [Orizaba, Mexico.] 



Atoyac, Vera Cruz, Mexico. December. 1 c?. (Bruner, A. X.S. P.) 



Amblytropidia mysteca (Saussure). 



The material previously recorded b.v the author as A. mysteca from 

 Cuernavaca, Texolo, Uruapan and Patzcuaro, Mexico, has been re- 

 examined, and in all cases represents mysteca as understood Ijy Bruner. 



The genus Sinipta Stal is a rather aberrant member of this group, 

 chief!}' differing in the depressed, subensiform antennte, which, how- 

 ever, does not appear to be sufficient to remove it from association 

 with Amblytropidia, some species of which have the antennae some- 

 what depressed. 



ORPHULKTiTi/^. 



The genera generally accredited to this group are with two excep- 

 tions, Calephoi-us and Comacris, American. The genera examined by 

 the author in this connection are given below, with their apparent 

 positions as far as can be expressed in a linear arrangement. 



Calcphorus Fieber (=Oxycoryphus Fisher). 



Parorphula Bruner. 



Sisantum Brimer. 



Orphidina Giglio-Tos. 



OrphulcUa Giglio-Tos. 



Clinocephaliis Morse. 



Dichromorpha ^lorse. 



ChloeaUis Harris. 



Cocytotettix n. n. { = Fenestra Bruner. not of Giglio-Tos). 



Tnxopterus BoHvar. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Of these ten genera a total of thirty-six species has been examined. 



Several genera like CMoealtis and Toxopterus are rather aberrant 

 and really occupy isolated positions, that of CMoealtis, however, being 

 somewhat modified by Cocytotettix, which is in a way a transition 

 type. The European Calephorus is also somewhat removed from the 

 nearest ally Parorphula. but its position appears to be in this group 

 and its affinity is clearly with the above-mentioned genus. The rela- 

 tionship of Sisantum and Orphulina is close, as an examination of the 

 type species of each shows, but, for the present at least, I have con- 

 sidered them distinct. The onlj- American genus not examined is 

 CEonomus Scudder, from California. 



CALEPHOEUS Fieber. 



1S53. Calephorus Fieber, Lotos, III, p. 97. May, 1853. Included C. 

 elegans Fieber and Gryllus dubius Rambur, both equalling Acrydium com- 

 pressicornis LatreUle. 



1854. Oxycori/phus Fischer, Orthoptera Europaea, p. 311. Type, Acry- 

 dium com pressicomis Latreille. 



This genus is mentioned merely to show its relationship to Paror- 

 phula from which it appears to be an offshoot. Aside from the pres- 

 ence of a distinct intercalary vein no character of great weight is ap- 

 parent to distinguish Calephorus from Parorphula. Three females of 

 C. compressicornis from France and Egypt have been e.xamined. 



PARORPHULA Bruner. 

 1900. Parorphula Bruner, Ace. Gen. Spec. Locusts .Urgent., pp. 22, 25. 

 Includeil P. graminea. pallidinota and strigata Bruner, of which the 

 first, graminea, can be selected as the type. 



This genus appears to form a transition type between Calephorus and 

 the Sisantum-Orphiilirui group. 



Parorphula graminea Bruner. 



1900. P[arurphula] graminea Bruner, .\cc. Gen. Spec. Locusts Argent., p. 

 26. [Provinces of Buenos Aires, Santa Fe and Cordoba, Argentina.] 



Carcarana. Santa Fe, Argentina. 3 d^c^, 3 9 9. (Through Law- 

 rence Bruner, A. X. S. Phila.. and U. S. N. M.) 



SISANTUM Bruner. 

 1904. Sisantum Bruner, Biol. Cent.-.\mer., Orth., II, pp. 30, 69. 

 Type. — S. notochloris Bruner. 



Sisantum notochloris Bruner. 



1904. Sisantum notochloris Bruner, Biol. Cent.-.\mer., Orth., II, p. 69. 

 [Medellin, Vera Cruz, Mexico.] 



Medellin, Vera Ci-uz, ilexico. 1 c~. (T. Heyde through L. Bruner, 

 A. X. S. P.) 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



The genus Sisantum is closely related to Orphulina, and the two form 

 a group intermediate between the Calephorus-Parorphida type and 

 Orphulella. 



ORPHULINA Giglio-Tos. 



1S94. Orphulina Giglio-Tos, BoUett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, IX, 

 No. 184, pp. 8, 9. 



Type. — 0. pulchella Giglio-Tos. 



This genus can be recognized without difficulty by the characters 



given by Giglio-Tos. The structure of the frontal costa is quite dis- 

 tinctive, at least in several species. 



Orphulina pulchella Giglio-Tos. 



1894. 0[rphuH)ia] pulchella Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. 

 Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 10. [San Pedro, Paraguay.] 



Sapucay, Paraguay. March 7-11, 1905. 4 9 9. (Foster, Hebard 

 Coll.) 



Two of these specimens have the dorsum green or tinted with green- 

 ish, the other two being dull ochre in the same region. 



Orphulina balloui (Eehn). 



1905. Urphulella balloui Rehn, Ent. News, XVI, p. ITS, pi. VIII, figs. 2 

 and 3. [Bay Estate, Barbados, West Indies.] 



This species is really a member of the genus Orphulina and rather 



closely related to 0. pulchella. It can be separated by the blunter 



fastigium, which has both the dorsal and lateral aspects showing a 



more rountled angle, the slightly more elongate ovoid eye. the slightly 



less •longitudinal and more cjuadrate interspace between the meso- 



sternal lobes, and the different coloration. The National Museum 



Collection contains a single female, labelled "West Indies," collected 



by the U. S. Fish Commission. 



Orphulina veteratoria u. sp. 



Types: o' and 9 ; Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil. September .5 

 ( 9 ) and 19, 1900. (Hempel; No. 216 part.) A. N. S. P. 



Allied to both pulchella and balloui, but separated from the former 

 by the more rol^ust form, the less compressed eyes, the slightly less 

 pronounced expansion of the lateral carinse on the metazoua and the 

 slightly more acute fastigium. The male has the interspaces between 

 the sternal lobes much as in Orphulella. From 0. balloui it can be 

 separated by the smaller size, more acute fastigium, the more promi- 

 nent eyes and the heavier caudal femora. This species is not closely 

 related to 0. acuta. 



Size small; form moderately robust. Head slightly shorter than the 




22 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



pronotum. slightly but distinctly ascending; fastigium about as long 

 as the width at the cephalic angle of the eye (d") or very considerably 



Fig. 5. — Orphulina veteratoria n. sp. Lateral vievf of female type. (X 3.) 



shorter ( 9 ), acute-angulate in the male, rectangulate in the female, 

 an intermarginal depressed lunate area in both sexes ; lateral foveolse 

 distinct in the female, much less distinct in the male, cephalic, elongate- 

 lanceolate; face moderately retreating with the apex 

 rather truncate; frontal costa rather narrow, sub- 

 parallel to below the ocellus, very slightly expanded 

 between the antennte, the margins moderately diver- 

 gent ventrad, moderately sulcate from the antennae 

 ventrad; eyes subovate in the male, ovoid in the 

 female, quite prominent in the male, very slightly 

 longer than the intraocular space in both sexes; 

 antennae slightly longer than (o") or subequal to ( 9 ) 

 the head and pronotum together, moderately de- 

 pressed, slight!}^ expanded proximad and very faintly 

 subensiform. Pronotum with the caudal width con- 

 tained about once and a half in the length; cephaUc 

 margin arcuato-truncate, caudal margin rounded 

 obtuse-angulate; median carina distinct, lateral cari- 

 nte slightly narrowed at the second sulcus and moder- 

 ately divergent caudad in the male, subparallel to the second sulcus and 

 verj' slightly divergent caudad in the female; first transverse sulcus not 

 intersecting any of the carina, second intersecting the lateral/and the 

 third intersecting the lateral and median carinse, metazona slightly 

 longer than the prozona in the male, subequal in the female; lateral lobes 

 very distinctly longer than the depth, ventral margin with a considerable 

 oblique cephalic emargination. Interspace between the mesosternal 

 lobes slightly transverse in the male, and slightly longitudinal in the 



Fig. Q.— Orphu- 

 lina veteratoria 

 n. sp. Dorsal 

 view of liead 

 and pronotum 

 of female type. 

 (X 3.) 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



female; metasternal lobes separated by a very narrow space in both 

 sexes. Tegmina slightly exceeding the tips of the caudal femora, the 

 caudal margin with a distinct but rather smallproximal dilation, apex 

 rotundato-truncate ; intercalarj^ vein distinct in the female, irregular in 

 the male. Abdomen moderately compressed; subgenital plate of male 

 blunt. Caudal femora moderateh' robust, considerabh' dilated in the 

 proximal two-thirds, pagina rather deeply sculptured; caudal tibioe 

 somewhat shorter than the femora, lateral margins bearing ten or 

 eleven spines, arolia small, subtrigonal. 



General color of the male bistre, the anal area of the tegmina and the 

 dorsum of the pronotum burnt lunber, the lateral angles of the pro- 

 notmn ventrad and slightly mesad on the pronotum marked with black ; 

 eyes walnut brown; ventral surface buffy becoming buff-yellow on 

 the abdomen; caudal femora ochre yellow becoming tawny, ochra- 

 ceous and raw umber distad, caudal tibise dull heliotrope purple, the 

 spines yellowish narrowly tipped with black. 



General color of female bistre becoming wood brown ventrad ; dor- 

 siun of the head, pronotimi and anal area of the tegmina pale apple 

 green, the lateral carinas of the pronotum marked with blackish as 

 in the male but more narrowly ; eyes raw umber blotched with bistre. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 14 mm. 19 mm. 



Lensth of pronotum, 3 " 4 " 



Length of tegraen 12 " 15 " 



Length of caudal femur, 10 " 11.2 " 



The types are the only specimens of this species which have been 

 examined. It is possible that the sexes here described do not repre- 

 sent the same species, and that my association of them is erroneous. 

 Several characters of the c? do not appear to be in accord with one's 

 ideas as to what the opposite sex of the 9 type should be, but as neither 

 belongs to an old species of the genus I have thought best to associate 

 them, pending the acquisition of further material. In case the sexes 

 should prove to represent distinct species I would restrict the name 

 veteratoria to the 9 . 

 Orphulina acuta n- sp. 



Types : c? and 9 ; Sao Paulo, Sao Paido, Brazil. (Hempel ; No. 

 216 part.) A. N. S. P. 



Allied to 0. pidchella, but a heavier species with the fastigium more 

 acute, the eyes longer, and more compressed when viewed dorsad, the 




24 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



tegmina and caudal femora shorter, the latter more rolDiist, and the 

 whole insect lacking the prominent lateral stripe of 0. ■pulchella. 



Fig. 7. — Orphulina amta n. sp. Lateral view of female t>-pe. (X 3.) 



Size small; form somewhat robust, moderately compressed. Head 

 distinctly .shorter than the pronotum, considerably elevated in both 

 sexes, the occiput more rounded in the male than in the female, the 

 latter having it almost straight; fastigium acute- 

 angulate in both sexes, but slightlj^ more so in the 

 male than in the female, the width at the cephalic 

 angle of the eye equal to (c?) or slightly greater ( 9 ) 

 than the length, margins distinct, a moderately de- 

 pressed intermarginal area present on the dorsum, no 

 median carina; lateral foveolse distinct, deep, cephalic, 

 blunt elongate-lanceolate in shape: the front dorsad 

 forming a right angle with the fastigiimi, ventrad 

 of the antennae considerably retreating; frontal costa 

 narrow in the male regularly but slightly expand- 

 ing from the fastigium to the cljijeus, deeply sulcate, 

 particularly dorsad of the ocellus; frontal costa in 

 the female similar to the male but subparallel from 

 between the antennae to the ocellus, the width being 

 greater and the sulcation shallower than in the male; eyes regularly 

 ovoid in the male, acute ovoid flattened cephalad in the female, in 

 both sexes very distinctly exceeding the infraocular sulcus in the 

 length ; antennae slightly longer ( d^ ) or slightly shorter ( 9 ) than the 

 length of the head and pronotum, slightly depressed and expanded 

 proximad, being thus very slightly ensiform. Pronotum with the great- 

 est caudal width of the dorsum contained once and a half in the length; 

 median carina very distinct, severed in the middle, lateral carinas 



Fig. 8.— Orphu- 

 lina acuta n. 

 sp. Dorsal 

 view of head 

 and prono- 

 tum 01 female 

 type. (X 3.) 




190C).] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



parallel to the second sulcus, considerably expanding between the 

 second and third, very slightly expanding to the caudal margin; 

 cephalic margin subtruncate, caudal margin obtuse-angulate, more 

 rounded in the male than in the female ; first transverse sulcus obsolete; 

 lateral lobes of the pronotimi with the dorsal length slightly greater 

 than the depth, ventral margin with a considerable cephalic emargina- 

 tion. Interspace between the masosternal lobes moderately longi- 

 tudinal in the male, slightly so in the female; metasternal lobes con- 

 tiguous caudad in the male, separated by a space about a fourth the 

 width of the mesosternal interspace in the female. Tegmina consid- 

 erably exceeding the tips of the caudal femora in length, apex rounded, 

 costal margin with a very narrow and slight proximal lobe; hyaline 

 in the proximal thiril ; intercalary vein irregular and extending the whole 

 length of the area, becoming lost in irregular reticulations; ulnar area 

 with a distinct longitudinal dividing vein in both sexes. Wings ample. 

 Abdomen considerably compressed; subgenital plate compressed with 

 a blunt apical tubercle. Caudal ^mora robust, the pagina deeply 

 and strongly sculptured; caudal tibiae distinctly, but not greatly, 

 shorter than the femora, the lateral margins armed with ten or ele\'en 

 spines ; tarsi with large arolia. 



General color shading from tawny-olive to bin-nt lunber. Head and 

 pronotum with postocular bars of vandj'ke brown, broad and dai'k 

 in the male, qviite narrow and light in the female. Dorsum of tlie 

 head, pronotum and closed tegmina lighter than the lateral aspects, 

 tawny-olive in the female, bay in the male. Venter Tvood lirown. 

 Limbs varying shades of the general color; tarsi verj^ pale viridian 

 green, with the base of the first, the whole second, the apex of the third, 

 arolium and tips of the claws black; spines on the tibise tipped with 

 black. 



Measurements. 



c? 9 



Length of body, 14 mm. IS. 5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3 " 4 " 



Length of tegmen 12.5 " 16.2 " 



Length of caudal femur, 8.5 " 10.7 " 



A paratypic series of two females have also been examined (Septem- 

 ber 7 and 14, 1900), and differ in no important characters from the 

 type. One specimen represents a darker and more sooty type of color- 

 ation than the other. 



ORPHULELLA GlsUo-Tos. 



1894. OrphuhUa Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Musei Zoolog. Anat. Comp. Torino, 

 IX, No. 184, pp. 8, 10. 



Included 0. gracilis Giglio-Tos, punctata (De Geer), intricata Stal 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



and elegans Giglio-Tos. Of these punctata is the oldest known and the 

 most widely distributed species, and may be considered the type. 



The species of this genus are cjuite difficult to separate and the recogni- 

 tion of almost all the forms can be considered only tentative. The extent 

 of indi^■idllal ^•ariation is great, iDoth in structure and color, and reliable 

 characters for the separation of species are few. The work of Bruner 

 in the Biologia is by far the best treatment of the genus so far published. 



Orphulella negleota Rehn. 



19U0. UrphuleUa negleda Rehn, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XX^■II, p. 9-1. 

 [Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico.] 



Orizaba, Mexico. June. lo^;type. (0. W. Barrett, A. N. S. P.) 

 2 d^d'. (Sumichrast, A. N. S. P. received through Dr. Saussure.) 

 Jalapa, Mexico. August and September. 2 d"'c?. (Barrett, A. N. 

 S.P.) Presidio, Mexico. June. 1 J'. (Barrett, A. N.S. P.) Coatepec, 

 Mexico. August. 1 c?, 1 9 . (Barrett, A. X. S. P.) 



This series shows that the spe^es varies somewhat in size (males 

 from 16 to 21 millimeters in total length), but little in color. All 

 except one c? from Jalapa are of the same colors, allowance being 

 made, of course, for fading in the Sumichrast specimens, while the 

 Jalapa excej^tion has the usual green dorsum replaced bj- a dull olive 

 tint, while the pronotum near the lateral lobes is not as distinctly 

 marked as in the other specimens. 



The 9 specimen measures as follows: length of body, 22 mm.; 

 length of pronotum, 4.1; length of tegmen, 17; length of caudal femur, 

 12.9. 



This species seems to be a form limited to the Eastern Cordilleras. 



Orphulella aouleata Rehn. 



1900. Orphulella aculeata Rehn, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XXVII, p. 92. 

 [Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.] 



Cuernavaca, Mexico. June. 1 c?, 3 9 9 including Unpes. (0. W. 

 Barrett, A. N. S. P.) 



This species appears to be quite distinct, and is not an Orphulimi 

 as has been thought possible bj' Brimer.^ Superficially this form 

 considerably resembles 0. inridesccns Scudder, but the structural char- 

 acters are quite distinctive and show that no close relationship exists. 



Orpliulella gracilis Giglio-Tos. 



1894. Orphulella graeilis Giglio-Tos, BoUett. Mus. Zool. .\nat. Comp. 

 Torino, IX, Xo. 18-1, p. 11. [Province of San Pedro, Villa Rica and 

 Asuncion, Paraguay.] 



Sapucay, Paraguay. December 20, 1901 (one specimen). 2 c?c?. 

 (Foster, Hebard Coll.) 



5 Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 74, 1904. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



The valitlity of this species appears to be somewliat doubtful, Giglio- 

 Tos himself ^ considering it a synonym of the North American 0. 

 manilipennis { = pelidna Bvirmeister). In this he is of course in error, 

 but it is extremely close to 0. punctata, which is so variable that 

 gracilis may only be an extreme with the lateral carina more or less 

 obliterated between the first and third transverse sulci. The form is 

 rather more elongate, however, than in the average individual of 0. 

 punctata. 



Orphulella punctata (De Geer). 



San Rafael, ^'era Cruz, Mexico, d^, 9. (Townsend through L. 

 Bruner, A. N. S. P.) San Marcos, Nicaragua. 2 9 9. (C. F. Baker, 

 A. N. S. P.) Trinidad, c?, 9 . A. N. S. P. Bartica, British Guiana. 

 May 1-27, 1901. 23 c^d", 14 9 9. (Crew, A. N. S. P.) Sao Paulo, 

 Brazil. September 1-19, 1900. 5d'd',5 9 9. (Hempel, A. N. S. 

 P.) Sapucay, Paraguay. February 3-27, March 6-12, 1905. lOd'c?, 

 22 9 9 . (Foster, Hebard Coll.) 



This large series of specimens, representing a very considerable range, 

 I find cannot be divided into species on any one or number of the 

 innumerable characters of variation exhibited. The green and brown 

 phases of coloration, varied with maculations and distinct bars or uni- 

 form with practically no markings, and variations in the shape and 

 strength of the lateral carinae of the pronotum, in the length of the 

 tegmina and wings, in the form of the fastigium and eyes, some slight, 

 others pronounced, are all present, and on superficial examination 

 would appear to furnish good characters for dividing the series. At- 

 tempts along these lines, however, soon show how hopeless it would 

 be to erect species on even the most striking types, as intermediates 

 are present to connect them with any other extreme. 



Two specimens from Gualaquiza and ^'alle del Lamora, Equador, 

 received from the Turin Museum, labelled "Orphula olivacea" and 

 recorded as such by Giglio-Tos,^ are provisionally referred to this 

 species. They are clearly not 0. olivacea, as comparison with para- 

 typic material shows, and having been preserved in alcohol are badly 

 shriA'clled in consequence.* 



Orphulella elegans Giglio-Tos. 



1S94. 0[rphuleIla] elegans Giglio-Tos, BoUett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. 

 Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 12. [Re.sistencia nel Chaco, .Argentina; Province 

 of San Pedro, Villa Rica and Asuncion, Paraguay.] 



' Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, XII, No. 302, p. 24, 1897. 

 ' Bollett. Mil.'!. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, XIII, No. 311, p. 39, 189S. 

 ' Bolivar's Orphula patruelis (Adas Soc. Espan. Hist. A'at., XXV, p. 1.5) from 

 the Rio Atalapo I have not recognized, and can give no idea of its proper position. 




28 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Four specimens, two of each sex, from Carcaraiia, Argentina, de- 

 termined as this species by Bruner, I am unable to separate from 

 my series of punctata, which includes material determined as that 

 species by Bruner. Individuals of the latter from Nicaragua, Costa 

 Rica and British Guiana resemble the Carcaraiia specimens very closely. 



Orphulella intrioata (Stai). 



1S73. T[ruxaUs] intricata Stal, Recensio Orthopteroruni, I, p. 106. [Buenos 

 A\Tes.] 



Two specimens, c^ and 9 , one from Cordoba, the other from Car- 

 caraiia, Argentina, determined as this species by Bruner, are avail- 

 able for study. I am of the opinion that this species will prove to be 

 merely a phase of the very variable 0. punctata. 



Orphulella mexicana (.Saussure). 



1861. Ox[ycoryphus] mexicanus Saussure, Re\'ue et Magasin de Zoologie, 

 2e s4r., XIII, p. 314. [Mexico.] 



Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mexico. August. 2 9?. (0. W. Barrett, 

 A. N. S. P.) Coatepec, Mexico. August. 1 9 . (Barrett, A. N. S. 

 P.) Texolo, Mexico. March 13, 1899. 5 d'c?. (S. N. Rhoads, 

 A. N. S. P.) 



The above records, with the Jalapa record given bj^ Bruner in the 

 Biologia,^ constitute the sum of our knowledge of this species. It 

 appears to be restricted in its range, as suggested by Bruner, and the 

 taking of five specimens in one day shows it can hardly be called rare. 

 The species is apparently confined to the country on the lower eastern 

 slope of the Cofre de Perote. The compressed form of this insect will 

 readily separate it from allied species. The compression of the male 

 abdomen with its appendages is c^uite pronounced. 



Orphulella tepaneca (Saussure). 



1861. Sl[enobolh]r[jt.'<] tepanecus Saussure, Revue et Masasin de Zoologie, 

 2e s^r., XIII, p. 319. [Mexico.] 



Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico. July 14, 1891. 1 cJ, 1 9. (W. S. 

 Blatchley, A. N. S. P.) 



This pair was received from Blatchley labelled ' ' Orphulella zapoteca, ' ' 

 but they are clearly not that species and answer Saussiu-e's description 

 of tepanecus very well. This species would appear to be limited in 

 range to the vicinity of Orizaba, Bruner having also recorded it from 

 there. 



Orphulella meridionalis Bruner. 



San Marcos, Nicaragua. 1 cJ. (C. F. Baker, A. N. S. P.) Chinan- 

 dega, Nicaragua. 16". (C. F. Baker, A. N. S. P.) 



'Biol. Cent.-.imer., Orth., II, p. 80, 1904. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



These specimens have been compared with the Costa Rican individ- 

 uals previousl}- recorded by the author.'" 



Orphulella zapoteoa (Saussure). 



18G1. 0.r[i/cori/phu.'i] zapotcca Saussure, Re\Tie et Magasiu de Zoologie, 2e 

 siJr., Xlil, p. 316. [Mexico.] 



Texolo, Vera Cruz. Jlexico. March 3 and 13, 1899. 8 J'c?. (S. 

 N. Rhoads, A. N. S. P.) 



The specimens from Alta Mira, Tamaulipas, previously recorded by 

 the author as 0. tepaneca are referable to this species. The frontal 

 costa, however, is moderately sulcate in all the Tamaulipas individuals. 



Orphulella viridescens Scudder. 



1S99. Orphulella riridescens Scudder, Canad. Entom., XXXI, p. 187. 

 [Mt. Alvarez, Mexico.] 



The specimens previously recorded by the author from Eslava, 



D. F., Jlexieo." are now before me. This species is quite distinct 



from any otiier mainland form, and rather closely related to 0. scudderi. 



DICHROMOEPHA Morse. 

 1S96. Dichromorpha Morse, Psyclie, \U, pp. 326, 383. 

 Type. — Chloealtis I'iridis Scudder. 



Dicliromorpha mexioana Bruner. 



1904. Dichromorpha mridis Rehn (not of Scudder), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila., 1904, p. .518. [Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.] 

 1904. Dichromorpha mexicana Bruner, Biol. Cent.-.\nier., Ortli., II, p. 87. 



[Sinaloa and Tepic, Mexico.] 



Aside from the longer tegmina and wings this species differs from 

 viridis in the slightly more robust form and the more acute fastigium 

 in both sexes. 



The range of this species now covers three States or Territories on 

 the west coast of Mexico — Sinaloa, Tepic and Jalisco. 



Dichromorpha longipennis Bruner. 



1904. Dichromorpha longipennis Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Ortli., II, p. 

 87 [Me.xico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico. August 20. 1 c'. (J. F. Mc- 

 Clendon, A. N. S. P.) 



This specimen is uniform brown and does not exhibit the green 

 dorsum mentioned by Bruner as present in the type cT. This the 

 first definite record of the species. 



'0 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1905, p. 802. 



" Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XXVII, p. 95, 1900 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



COCYTOTETTIX" n. n. 



1900. Fenestra Bruner (not of Giglio-Tos), Ace. Gen. Spec. Locusts'" Argent., 

 pp. 22, 30." 



Included F. pulchripennis, intermedia and argentina Bruner, of 

 which the first may be considered the tjq^e. 



This genus is quite distinct from any other, but is nearer to the 

 North American ChloeaJtis than any South American type. The 

 Matto Grosso C. linearis " is rather aberrant in the slender form, 

 narrow tegmina, weaker carina and more hyaline wings. 



Cocytotettix pulchripennis (Bruner). 



1900. F[enfstrct] pulchripennis Bruner, Ace. Gen. Spec. Locusts Argent., 

 p. 30. [Argentina; open camp.] 



Carcaraiia, Santa Fe, .Argentina. 2 cJ'd'. (Through L. Bruner, 

 A. N. S. P.) 

 Cocytotettix intermediuB (Bruner) 



1900. F[enfstra] intermedia Bruner, Ace. Gen. Spec. Locusts .\rgent.. p. 31. 

 [Carcarana, Argentina.] 



Carcaraiia, Santa Fe, Argentina. 2 o''g', 1 ?. (Through L. 

 Bruner, A. N. S. P.) 



The (J' of this species superficially remind one of the males of the 

 certain species of the genus Sj/rbida. 



TOXOPTERUS Bolivar. 

 1890. Toxopterus Bolivar, Anales Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., XIX, p. 313. 

 Type. — T. miniatus Bolivar. 



This genus is rather aberrant and isolated in position in consequence, 

 but its position is in the Orphulellse, and nearer to Cocytotettix than 

 any other genus. The structure of the antennte is similar to that of 

 Gomphocerus, but such resemblance is also found in Eritcttix, which is a 

 member of the Amblytropidiie, and are superficial and not of great 

 taxonomicA-alue. 



Toxopterus miniatus Bolivar. 



1890. Toxopterus miniatus Bolivar, Anales Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat.. XIX, p. 

 314. [Cumbase, Peru.] 



Sapucay, Paraguaj'. January IS, 1903. January 28, February 6- 

 25, March 2-10, 1905. 7 c?c?, 13 9 ? . (Foster, Hebard Coll.) 



'^ The genus Fenestra is invalid from Bruner (Ann. Mus. Civ. 8tor. Nat. 

 Geneva, XXXIII, p. 120, 1893), as he designates no named species for type or 

 included forms. The first species named under the generic term Fenestra was 

 F. bohlsii GigHo-Tos (Zool. Jahrb., Syst., VIII, p. 807, 1895), which, on a subse- 

 quent page (p. 32), I will show to be the species later named Dichroatettix viridi- 

 jrons Bruner, and for which the generic name Fenestra nmst he used. 



" KwK,u7oc, shrieking, reme, grasshopper; in allusion to the loud stridulations . 



» Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 374. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



This series exliibits considerable variation in the intensity of the 

 coloration, the dorsal aspect ranging in color from dull blackish brown 

 to mottled ochre and imiber and again washed with dull green. The 

 paler lateral bands, including the ventral portion of the lateral lobes, 

 pleiu-a and caudal femora are distinct in all the specmiens examined 

 and in several are decidedly greenish; in these cases the genffi are 

 also colored. Some individuals are distinctly maculate, or might 

 really be called tessellate, ochre and umber being the two colors. 

 Considerable variation in the sharpness of the angle of the fastigium 

 is also noticeable, and in both sexes. In some females the angle is 

 almost as acute as in some males. 



The species has previously been recorded by Giglio-Tos '^ from 

 Gualaquiza, Cuchipamba and the \'alley of Santiago, Ecuador. 



GOMPHOCERI. 



The South American genera of this group are six in number, three 

 previously known and three recognized as the result of the present 

 study. Of these genera two will be described in a subsequent paper, 

 but they are mentioned here to show their position in the series. The 

 genera would stand as follo\\'s: 



Fenestra Giglio-Tos {=Dichroatettix Bruner). 



Staurorhectus Giglio-Tos. 



Isonyx n. gen. 



Borellia n. gen. 



Stereotettix n. gen. « 



Tristira Bruner. 



The first genus is quite distinct, as is the second. The next three 

 genera, Isonyx. BorcUia and Stereotettix, show some characters in 

 common, but differ in a number of others, such as the position of the 

 lateral foveolse and the relative proportion of the spurs. The last, 

 Tristira, is a quite distinct type, much isolated from the others and 

 immediately recognizable by its peculiar facies. 



FENESTKA Giglio-Tos. 



1895. Fenestra Giglio-Tos, Zoolog. Jahrblicher, Syst. Abth., VIII, p. 807. '. 



Type. — F. bohlsii Giglio-Tos. 



1900. Dichroatettix Bruner, Ace. Genera Spec. Locusts Argent., pp. 22, 32. 



As I have stated on a previous page (p. 30) these names apply to 



the same genus and species. As there stated Fenestra is invalid from 



Bruner, 1893,^" on account of the lack of a type or included named 



" BoUett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, XIII, No. 311, p. 39. 

 "Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Genova, XXXIII, p. 120. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



species. The only information we have is a footnote to the extent 

 that ' ' Ce genre est fonde sur une espece de Buenos Aires. ' ' The next 

 use of the name is by Giglio-Tos, who placed the species in hand in 

 that genus, in spite of the sanguineous wings, which appendages were 

 stated to be hyaline by Bruner. Bruner was apparently unacquainted 

 with the paper of Giglio-Tos and erected a new genus Dichroatettix 

 for a specie-s, which is undoubtedly the same as F. bo]ilsii Giglio-Tos, 

 while Fej^estra was applied to three species, which therefore require 

 a new generic name, a want supplied on a previous page of tliis paper." 

 This genus is related to the North American genera Napaia and 

 Horeskloies. It can be distinguished from the former by the less 

 expanded antennae, the strongly constricted lateral carinse of the pro- 

 notum. the subequal prozona and metazona. the distinctly angulate 

 cautlal margin of the pronotum, the longer tegmina with more definite 

 venation and the very peculiar cerci. From Horesidotes (which has 

 not been examined) it appears to differ in that the occiput has no 

 distinct median carina, the caudal margin is more angulate and the 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum are deeper than long. 



Fenestra bohlsii Giglio-Tos. 



1S95. F[enestra] bohhii Giglio-Tos, Zoolog. Jalirbticher, Syst. Abth., ^'III, 



p. SOT. [Paraguay.] 

 1900. Dichroatettix riridijronx Bruner. Ace. Gen. Spec. Locusts Argent., 



p. 33, figs. 9 and 10. [Cordoba and Carcarana, Argentina.] 



Cordoba, Argentina. 1 c^. (Through L. Bruner, U. S. N. M.) 

 Sapucay, Paraguay. January 24, 26, February 13 and March 2- 

 21,1905. 5 cJ'c?,"lO 9 9. (Foster, Hebard Coli.) 



This series shows that the green color of the face is not present in 

 some of the females, and in such as it is present the lateral lobes of 

 the pronotum are always, and generalh' also the dorsiun, the pleura 

 and the caudal femora, except the apices, of the same color. All the 

 males examined have the face green. In some specimens the dorsimi 

 of the pronotum is without the velvety black patches seen in others, 

 in fact about half the specimens are without them. Size, as exhibited 



" The name Dichroateltix might with justice be used for this genus if the un- 

 identifiability of tlie Brunnerian genus Fenestra precludes its use by Giglio-Tos. 

 -•Vs an unidentifial:)le name requires different treatment from a nomen nudum the 

 use of Fenestra once in such a way would by some be considered to preclude its 

 subsequent use, its existence terminating as a name wlien considered unidentifi- 

 able. A nomen iiudum, being considered to express nothing definite, can be 

 properly used by a later author from whom it dates. .A.n unidentifiable name, 

 on the otiier hand, represents sometliing imperfectly and improperly presented 

 and should be discarded for all time. I have presented both ^-iews, the proper 

 presentation of the name by a later author and the complete elimination of the 

 name, and leave others to choose for themselves. In any case Giglio-Tos's 

 species boMsii would stand. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



by this series, is subject to little variation. Some of the females show 

 considerable variation in the angle of the fastigium. 



STATJRORHECTUS Giglio-Tos.'S 



1897 Staurorhectus Gigliu-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, 

 XII, No. 302, p. 25. 



Type. — S. longicornis Giglio-Tos. 



This genus is apparently closer related to Chorthippus (Stenobothrus) 

 than to any other genus of the group, the tegmina of the male being 

 rather similar in some species, but the lateral foveolte are very weak, 

 the lateral carina of the pronotimi are much less distinct and the 

 caudal femora slenderer. 



staurorhectus longicornis Giglio-Tos. 



1S97. S[t(iiirorhectus] longicornis Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. 

 Comp. Torino, XII, No. 302, p. 26. [San Lorenzo and Tala, Argentina; 

 Caiza, Bolivia.] 



Campo Santo, Bolivia.'" 1 d^. (Borelli, A. N. S. P.) San Lorenzo, 

 Jujuy, Argentina. 1 9 . (Borelli, A. N. S. P.) Sapucay, Paraguay. 

 March 2-27, 1905. 12 c?c?, 37 9 9 . (Foster, Hebard Coll.) 



The interesting series listed above exhibits a very great range of 

 variation with four distinct color forms in the 9 ; the d' is more uni- 

 formly colored. These forms I will designate a, b, c and d, lettering 

 from the most diversified to the most uniform type. 



Type a. A median longitudinal line from fastigium to tip of teg- 

 mina buff, flanked by lines of blackish brown on pronotum and teg- 

 mina, on the latter occupying all except a narrow proximal costal 

 line of pale yellow. Lateral carina di.stinct, light, slightly constricted. 

 Light bar on head slightly margined with brownish. Remainder of 

 lateral aspect, and caudal femora except the dorsal blackish line and 

 the reddish distal section, grass green. Represented by twelve speci- 

 mens. 



Type b. Similar to type a, but green replaced by ochraceous brown. 

 Represented by eight specimens. 



Type c. The dorsal median line in this type is almost lost and nearly 

 concolorous with the lateral bars, so that dorsum from the fastigium 

 caudad is nearly uniform. Represented by six specimens. 



" It is quite possible this may prove to be the same as Compsacris Bolivar 

 {Annies Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., XIX, p. 314, 1890) ba,sed on one species — C. 

 pulcher — from ' ' \'illa Bella en el Peru, ' ' which is apparently ^'illa Bella, Bolivia, 

 at t!ie junction of the Beni and Mamore rivers. If such should prove to be the 

 case Compsacris would replace Staurorhectus. None of the species examined by 

 the author are closely related to C. pulcher judging from the description. 



"Labelled as above, but Campo Santo, Salta Province, Argentina, is probably 

 intended. 




34 • PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. 



Type d. Tegmina colored much as in type a, but heail, pronotum, 

 pleura and limbs suffused with rose red, the usual markings being 

 only faintly indicated. Represented by eleven specimens. 



The largest 9 specimen (38 millimeters in length of body) belongs 

 to type c, the smallest (30 millimeters) to type a. The typical 9 re- 

 ceivetl from the Tm-in Museum has been immersed in a licjuid preserva- 

 tive and it is impossible to tell to which type it belongs. 



One c? individual has a coloration which would be considered type 

 c. while the other males are of a type which approximates closer to the 

 9 type h with, however, some greenish, but not on the caudal femora. 



The curve of the fastigium of the female varies from arcuate to dis- 

 tinctly angulate, and is more excavated in some than in others. 

 Staurorheotus glaaoipes n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Sapucay, Paraguay. March 8, 1905. (Foster; No. 32.) 

 Hebard Collection. 



Allied to S. longicornis Giglio-Tos, but considerably smaller and 

 slenderer with the fastigium more acute, the frontal costa more sul- 

 cate, the lateral foveolse of the vertex practically suppressed, the ulnar 



Fig. 9. — Staurorhectus glaucipes n. sp. Lateral view of tj^pe. (X 2.) 



area of the tegmina without a distinct longitudinal dividing vein, no 

 distinct continuous intercalary vein present, and possessing a char- 

 acteristic coloration which does not appear to vary appreciably in a 

 series of ten females. 



Size rather small ; form moderately slender. Head distinctly shorter 

 than the pronotum, the occiput not elevated and gently arched longi- 

 tudinally; fastigium shorter than the width at the cephalic angle of 

 the eyes, slightly acute, the apex rounded, margins with a narrow 

 semicircular depression, no median carina present; lateral foveolae not 

 distinct, ventrad; face considerably retreating, the apex acute when 

 viewed laterad; frontal costa moderately wide, margins subparallel, 

 reaching to the clypeus, sulcate from dorsad of the antennte ventrad ; 

 eyes elongate-ovoid, very slightly longer than the infraocular sulcus; 

 antennae considerably exceeding the head and pronotum together in 




1906.] 



NATUHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



35 



length, nearly two-thirds the length of the tegmen, moderately depressed 

 proximad and very slightly dilated. Pronotum moderately rounded 

 but with a perceptible dorsal flattening; cephalic margin slightly 

 arcuate, caudal margin broadly obtuse-angulate with the angle 

 rounded, no lateral carinse present, but a moderate shoulder developed 

 on the metazona; greatest caudal width contained about one and two- 

 thirds in the length, metazona regularlj- and closely, but not deeply, 

 punctate; three distinct transverse sulci present on the dorsum, the 

 caudal only intersecting the median carina, which is distinct and regular; 

 lateral lobes with the dorsal length very considerably greater than the 

 depth, ventral margin slnuato-angulate. Interspace between the 

 mesosternal lobes slightly longitudinal ; interspace between the meta- 

 sternal lobes hardly narrower than between the mesosternal lobes, 

 pentagonal. Tegmina very slightly exceeding the apex of the abdo- 

 men, but fallmg considerably short of the caudal femora; marginal 

 field with a very slight proximal dilation, apex rather narrowly rounded, 

 no intercalary vein present. Wings ample. Abdomen consider- 

 ably compressed. Caudal femora considerably inflated proximad, the 

 distal section quite slender, pattern of the pagina A'ery distinct, regu- 

 lar; caudal tibife very slightly shorter than the femora, gently sinuate, 

 the external margins with eleven or tweh'e spines, 

 internal spurs slightly unequal ; tarsi with distinct, 

 roiuided arolia. 



General color apple green, becoming more oil 

 green on the caudal femora. Two broad lines, 

 one on each side, of vandj^ke brown start from 

 the margins of the fastigiimi, cross the dorsum 

 of the eyes, extend over the pronotum, and on 

 the tegmina broaden out and occupy the entire 

 discoidal and all e.xcept the pro.ximal portion of the 

 marginal fields. On the head the color of these bars 

 is decidedly blackish brown, about true vandyke 

 brown on the pronotum, becoming dilute and 

 fainter as the stripe broadens on the tegmina, 

 while along the ventral margins of these bars the 

 green is touched with yellowish, while the light 

 proximal section of the marginal field is cream 

 color. Antennae vandyke brown with the proxi- 

 mal joint green; eyes tawny-olive and bistre mot- 

 tled ; caudal femora with the genicular regions 

 laterad and ventrad black, the pagina with a dorsal longitudinal bar of 



Fig. 10. — Stauro- 

 rhectus glmicipes 

 n.sp. Dorsal view 

 of head and pro- 

 notum of tvpe. 

 (X 3.) ■ 




36 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.. 



olive, except for a pregenicular aiinulus of clear green; caudal tibise 

 bice green, the genicular section blackish and the distal jjortion slightly 

 suffused with brownish, spines and spurs tipj^ed with black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 26 mm. 



Length of pronotum 5 " 



Length of tegmen, 19 " 



Length of caudal femur, 16.3 " 



A paratypic series of nine males have also been examined, the dates 

 being as follows: December 21, 1904; January 26, February 15, March 

 7, IS and 21, 1905. This series is rather uniform in size, two females, 

 however, being appreciably smaller than the others. In color one 

 specimen has the green more glaucous, while several others show a 

 tendency in the same direction. One specimen has the caudal femora, 

 the lateral lobes and the face suffused with orange vermilion. The 

 intensity of the longitudinal bars appears to vary very little; on the 

 tegmina, however, some specimens are more strongly colored than 

 others. 



ISONYX n. gen.w 



'"^This genus probably is closer related to Bonllia Rehn ^' than to 

 Staurorhectus, and ma}' possibly be considered a distinct and separate 

 type with no close relationship to either the above mentioned genera. 

 The characters are so contradictory antl the fades so different that 

 the author does not feel justified in making detailed comparisons, but 

 prefers to present the rather striking features of the form in the general 

 description. It might be added that this position is assigned to 

 Isonyx after studying all the South American Gomphoceri, both genera 

 and species. 



Isonyx paraguayensis n. sp. 



Types: 6^ and 9. Sapucay, Paraguay. February 12 ( 9 ) and 

 27 (c?), 1905. (Foster; Nos. 24 and 165.) Hebard Collection. 



Size rather small; form moderately compressed and slender; surface 

 subsericeous. Head slightly (.5^) or considerably (9) shorter than 

 the pronotimi, the occiput very slightly elevated and rounded; fasti- 

 gium subrectangulate in the male, obtuse-angulate in the female, ^'ery 

 much shorter than the width at the cephalic angle of the eyes, margins 



^° luof, emial; owx, daw. 



" Proceedings of the U. S. !\atwnal Museum, XXX p. 379. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



distinct with a broad sublimate interniarginal depression, no median 

 carina present, fastigium when viewed laterad moderatelj- declivent; 



Fig 11. — Isonyx paraguayensis n. gen. and sp. Lateral view of 

 female type. (X 3.) 



dorsal section of the face vertical, ventrad of the antennte consider- 

 ably (c?) or gentl}^ ( 9 ) retreating; lateral foveolae distinct, cephalic 

 well impressed and excavated, sublanceolate; frontal costa strongly 

 compressed dorsad, regidarly expanding ventrad of the antenna to the 

 clypeus, with an additional rotundate expansion at the ocellus, slightly 

 sulcate ventrad of the ocellus; eyes subovate in the male, subovoid in 

 the female, flattened cephalad in the latter sex, moderateh' prominent 



Fig. 12.— Isonyx paraguayensis n. gen. Fig. 13.— Isonyx paraguayensis n. gen. 

 and sp. Dosal ^^ew of head and ^^d sp. Lateral ^-iew of abdomen 



pronotum of female t\-pe. (X3.) of male t\-pe. (X 6.) 



in the male when viewed dorsad ; antennae siibequal to the head and 

 pronotum in length in the male, slightly shorter in the female. Pro- 

 notum deplanate dorsad, the greatest caudal width contained about 

 once and a quarter in the length ; cephalic margin subtruncate, caudal 




38 PHOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



margin obtiise-angulate in botli sexes; median carina distinct but not 

 high, severed by the third sulcus slightly cephalad of the middle; 

 lateral carinte clepsydral, strongly constricted to the first sulcus, ab- 

 sent between the first and second, straight between the second and 

 third, wider spaced caudad of the' third sulcus than cephalad of it, 

 arcuate diverging caudad ; lateral lobes with the greatest dorsal length 

 slightly less than the greatest depth, the ventral margin sinuato- 

 angulate, a weak shoulder running diagonally ventro-cephalad 

 on the prozona. Interspace between the mesosternal lobes sub- 

 quadrate in the male, slightly transverse in the female ;metasternal 

 lobes contiguous caudad in the male, separated by a small ovate space 

 in the female. Tegmina slightly exceeding the tips of the caudal 

 femora, the tips rounded, costal margin with the proximal lobe small 

 and low ; intercalary vein present, distinct but irregular, and becoming 

 lost proximad in the reticulations; ulnar area with a longitudinal 

 dividing vein as distinct as the intercalary in the male, more distinct 

 and regular in the female. Wings ample. Abdomen considerably 

 compressed; cerci of the male styliform, apex rather blunt; subgenital 

 plate of the male somewhat contracted and tinned in dorsad, apex 

 moderately acute and but slightly produced. Cephalic and median 

 limbs rather slender, more robust and somewhat inflated in the male. 

 Caudal femora quite robust, considerabh' inflated, pagina sharply 

 but not very deeply sculptured ; caudal tibi« slightly shorter than the 

 femora and with a hardly perceptible sinuation, lateral margins with 

 ten spines in the male and nine in the female, internal spm-s moderately 

 arcuate, equal; tarsi with distinct arolia. 



General color vandyke brown, mottled and overlaid with seal l^rown, 

 clove brown and blackish. Eyes cinnamon {o) or mimimy brown 

 ( 9 ); occiput with two dark arcuate, diverging bars extending caudad 

 from between the eyes. Pronotum with the lateral carinae, lateral 

 sections of the dorsum of the metazona and the extreme upper portions 

 of the lateral lobes seal brown or blackish, leaving a unicolor median 

 bar extending from the fastigium to the caudal margin of the prono- 

 tum, which is more or less hazel in the male and apple green in the 

 female; remaining section of the lateral lobes mottled and lined. 

 Tegmina with a longitudinal discoidal series of quadrate clove brown 

 spots, the marginal field in the female touched proximad with apple 

 green, and the sutiu-al margin in the male with a touch of vinaceous- 

 cinnamon. Limbs mottled and faintly annulate with the general 

 colors, the caudal femora blackish in the genicular region and with 

 the dorso-lateral face marked with several velvety seal brown spots, 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



one submesad and another nearer the base; caudal tibiae dull olive 

 ■uith a faint proximal lighter annulus, the spines and spurs tipped 

 with black; tarsi soiled greenish with the proximal part of the first 

 joint, the whole second and the tip of the third blackish. 



Measurements. 



d 9 



Length of body, 17.7 mm. 21 mm. 



Length of pronotuin, 3.2 " 4.3 " 



Length of tegmen 14.5 " 18.3 " 



Length of caudal femur, 10.7 " 13 " 



A paratypic series of six females has also been examined (February 

 13, 15 and 27, March 17 and 21, 1905). This series shows that the 

 species varies somewhat but not greatly in size, and the coloration 

 presents a considerable range of base tones and finer definition of 

 markings without much modification of such pattern as is found in 

 the tj'pes. Two specimens are touched with green as in the 9 type, 

 but both have it weaker on the head and tegmina, and the lateral 

 carinse are broadly marked with the same tint on the metazona, and the 

 caudal femora have distinct oblique blackish bars. Other specimens 

 have the lighter general colors replaced by ferruginous or wood 

 brown, giving a warm rufescent type or a rather sandy form, while 

 the femoral bars are present as variations irrespectively of color form 

 All the females except the type have the lateral carinse marked with 

 hghter on the metazona. One of the rufescent' type has the dark colors 

 all blackish, presenting a strong contrast with the other ferruginous 

 patches. 



SCYLLIN^. 



After examining individuals of all the genera of the Scyllinoe except 

 Ewpnigodes McNeill and Zapata Bruner, the following arrangement of 

 the genera seems to be desirable as it appears to express their natural 

 relations : 



Boopcdon Thomas. 



Euplectrotettix Bruner. 



Scyllina Stal. 



Eupniyodcs ilcXeill. 



Zapata Bruner. 



Psoloessa Scudder. 



Stirapleura Scudder. 



Ageneotettix McNeill. 



Aulocara Scudder. 



Ligurotettix McNeill. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



The position of Eupnigodes and Zapata is taken from other authors, 

 while Ligurotettix is placed here instead of in the Epacromioe, as it is 

 quite different from Mecostethus and Epacromia, approaching Aulocara 

 in some respects. While no doubt somewhat aberrant Ligurotettix is 

 clearly a member of the Scyllinte, the intercalary vein, for example, 

 being no stronger than is the case in many specimens of Aulocara. 



EUPLECTROTETTIX Biuner. 



1900. Eupledrotetiix Bruner, Aeo. Gen. Spec. Locusts Argent., pp. 23,. 38 

 (Eupletrotettix laps. p. 38). 



Included E. ferrugineus, conspersus, schulzi and prasinus Bruner, 

 of which ferrugineus may be considered the type. 



Eupleotrotettix ferrugineus Bruner. 



1900. Eupledrolettix ferrugineus Bruner, Xqq. Gen. Spec. Locusts .\rgent., 

 p. 39. [Sandy knolls about Asuncion, Paraguay; Territory of Formosa, 

 Argentina.] 



Sapucay, Paraguay. February 13, 1903; December 16, 1904; Janu- 

 ary 26, February 10-25, March 2-19, 1905. 9 d'c?, 10 ? $ . (Foster, 

 Hebard Coll.) 



These specimens are all larger than the measurements given by Bruner, 

 but otherwise do not appear to materially differ. The series is quite 

 uniform in size, and an average c? and 9 measure as follows : 



c? 9 



Length of body, 18.5 mm. 25 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.5 " 4.8 " 



Length of tegmen, 15.5 " 21 " 



Length of caudal femur, 11.5 " 15.2 " 



Two distinct types of coloration are present, one irregularly 

 mottled and washed \\'ith fuscous, the other with a light orange 

 ochraceous median bar on the head and pronotum, flanked by blackish 

 lateral lines, which are filiform on the head and broader on the pro- 

 notum. The tegmina in the latter type also possess a pair of light 

 parallel longitudinal lines on the anal areas. 



The indications of femoral bars mentioned by Briuier are quite 

 strong in nearly all the females and several of the males examined, 

 while the blackish genicular region of the c? and the orange-red 

 abdomen of the same sex are quite striking. 



SCYLLINA StAI. 

 187 . Scyllina Stkl, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 112. 

 Included S. peragrans (Stal) and S. viatoria (Saussure) of which 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



the former is the type, the latter having been removed to Plectro- 

 phonis {=Plectrotettix) by McXeill. 



189.5. Pseudostauronotus Giglio-Tos, Zool. Jahrb., Abth. Syst., \IU, p. 



808. T\-pe. — P. brunneri Giglio-Tos. 

 1897. Plectrophorus McXeill. Proc. Davenp. Acad. Xat. Sci., VI, p. 198, 



251, pi. 4. fig. 21 [not of Ferussac, 1S19]. Included Stenobothr^ts viatoriiis 



and greqarius Saussurc. 

 1897. Piectroteitix McNeill, Psyche, VIII, p. 71. 



Of the various species here considered a series of one hundred and 

 fifty-six specimens have been examined, including typical material 

 of the five species described by Bruner. Thorough consideration of 

 this material shows that no tangible characters exist for separating 

 ScyUina. Pseudostauronotus and Plectrofettix even as subgenera as 

 proposed bj- Bruner.-- The characters on which the subdivisions 

 were there made are : the presence or absence of an intercalarj^ vein in 

 the post-radial area, the cells of this region being accordingly arranged 

 in two series or else irregularly reticulate; the caudal lobe of the 

 pronotum either subequal to or longer than the cephalic; the inner 

 claw of the hind tibise more or not more than twice the length of the 

 outer, and the number of spines on the outer margin of the hind tibise 

 (9 to 12 or 13 to 16). 



The fii-st of these characters can usually be depended upon as stable, 

 but in this genus the intercalary vein is by no means a stable character 

 being present or absent in individuals of the same species, and in some 

 cases varj-ing in an individual to the extent that it is distinct on one 

 tegmen and absent on the other. The proportions of the lobes of the 

 pronotum are also found to vary, as in species belonging unquestion- 

 ablj' to the section supposed to have subequal divisions the caudal 

 section distincth' exceeds the cephalic in length, while the reverse is 

 the case in other species. The length and shape of the tibial claws 

 while diagnostic when the type species alone are compared, is without 

 value when other forms are considered ; specimens of varipes, which 

 is allied to conspersa, has the spiu« no longer than is foimd in Mexican 

 forms referred to Piectroteitix. The number of tibial spines is a char- 

 acter which appears unworthy of use in separating subgenera, especially 

 when the extent of variation is such as to cause great doubt as to which 

 division a particular specimen belongs. 



While the tj-pe of the genus Gomphocerus {Epacrmnia) peragrans 

 St&l,^ has not been recognized since the original description, a cir- 

 cumstance probably due to the fact that the type localit}^ is an unfre- 



"Biol Cent. A7ner., Orth., II, pp. 99-100. 



^ Kongliga Svenska Fregatten Eugenies Resa, Zool., I, p. 343, 1S60. [Puna.] 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



quented one, the description is sucli that it could be identified with 

 little difficulty. 



The name Pseudostauronotus was proposed by Giglio-Tos under the 

 impression that the typ^, hrunneri, was a member of the very insuffi- 

 ciently described genus to which Brunner applied the same name two 

 years previously.^* As Brunner's name rests on a description of seven 

 words without included species or type mentioned, it is really a nomen 

 nudum and as such not invalidating the later use of the name by Giglio- 

 Tos, even when used in misapprehension. Scudder has shown ^^ from 

 the evidence of material sent him by Brunner that Pseudostauronotus 

 of that author equals his much older Stirafleura. 



Some species of the genus appear to resemble specias of Boopedon, 

 others forms of Stirapleura and several have a striking superficial 

 resemblance to forms of the Locustine genus Schistocerca. The fol- 

 lowing arrangement appears to present their relationship as clearly as 

 possible in a linear arrangement. 



Species but little variegated, the coloration rather uniform; lateral 

 carinae of the pronotum moderately arcuate, not prominent; super- 

 ficially resembling Boopedon. 



Scyllina uniformis Rehn. 

 Soyllina instabilis n. sp. 



Types: c? and 9 ; Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil. September 5, 

 1900. (Adolph Hempel; No. 202.) A. N. S. Phila. 



This species is closely allied to S. uniformis, but differs in the sharper 

 caudal angle of the pronotum, the longer nietazona of the pronotum 

 (much longer than the prozona), the slightly narrower interspace be- 

 tween the eyes and the rather different type of coloration. 



Size medium ; form robust. Head with the fastigium broad, rounded 

 rectangidate, depressed area crescentic, interspace between the eyes 

 equal to the interantennal width of the frontal costa, lateral foveolffi 

 oblong, punctate, slightly impressed; viewed laterad the fastigium 

 rounds into the frontal costa without angle; frontal costa broad, sub- 

 equal, slightly constricted above the antennae, two rows of punctures 

 dorsad; supplementary facial carinae indistinct ventrad; eyes acute 

 reniform, slightly longer than the infraocular portion of the 

 genae; antennae slender, slightly depressed proximad. Pronotum 

 with the cephalic margin arcuato-truncate, caudal margin obtuse- 

 angulate, sharper in the male than in the female; median carina 

 rather high, distinct, cut slightly cephalad of the middle by the 



'*Aim. Mus. Civ. Star. Nat. Gevova, XXXIII, p. 123, 1893. 

 » Canad. Entom., XXIX, p. 76, 1897. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



distinct transver.se sulcus; lateral carina; distinct cephalad and caudad, 

 subobsolete mesad with the constriction slight ; lateral lobes slightly 

 over half as deep again as long, cephalic and caudal margins subparallel, 

 ventral margin rounded obtuse-angulate. Tegmina distinctly (cJ) or 

 moderately exceeding the apex of the abdomen, but oulj' slightly 

 exceeding the tips of the caudal femora; costal expansion slight, ow, 

 apex rotundato-truncate; postradial area irregularly areolate. Ceph- 

 alic and median limbs rather slender., .,^^dal femora robust, inflated, 

 the distal portion slenderer and jv'i,^^fj^)if ,pregemcular portion con- 

 stricted, carinse strongly ribbed, p^^t^^j^f the pagina distinct and 

 regular; caudal tibiae with eleven spin^|laterad, longer internal spiu- 

 slightly more than twice the length of the shorter, sharply curved 

 distad but not distinctly hooked. 



Figs. 14 and 15. — Sq/llina instabilis n. sp. Female t\-pe. Dorsal \ae-n- of head 

 and pronotum and lateral ^^ew. (X IJ.) 



General color ranging from ochraceous-rufous (male) to dull hazel 

 and clay color (female). Head with a blackish postocular bar distinct 

 in the male, slight in the female ; infraocular line very distinct in the 

 male, absent in the female; lateral margins of the frontal costa and 

 ventral portion of the lateral foveolsp lined with blackish, more distinct 

 in the male than in the female; face and sides of the head blotched 

 with a darker brown in the female ; eyes rather cinnamon in the male, 

 pale Isabella color in the female; antennae of the general color. Pro- 

 notum of the male clear ochraceous-rufous, with the lateral 

 carinae slightly marked cephalad, the lateral lobes with a broad 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF (Feb., 



blackish bar extending from the principal transverse sulcus dorsad 

 obliquely ventrad to the ventro-cephalic angle; of the female 

 with a dorsal cross imperfectly indicated by dull hazel on a 

 clove brown groimd. lateral lobes reddish clay color with weak longi- 

 tudinal blotches of broccoli brown. Tegmina with the anal area 

 obsolete maculations in both sexes, those of the female more distinct 

 than those of the male, remainder with rather narrow rather regularly 

 disposed transverse bars of Mwe brown, which are weaker distad than 

 proximad in the female, but 4'?nJiwm in strength in the male. Limbs 

 cream buff marked with*'?l(VC'^'*fir'(i)wn: caudal femora cream ochra- 

 ceous-rufous dorsad in the riiflS¥,"fiot barred, in the female hazel with 

 four rather weak transverse bars of dull brown, carina" of the lateral 

 face dotted with blackish, the pattern of the ]3agina outline in brown- 

 ish; ventral face very dark verditer blue; caudal tibice ranging from 

 orange-vermilion (male) or cliinese orange (female) proximad to ma- 

 roon purple (male) or burnt carmine (female), spine blackish at the 



tips. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 24.5 mm. 33 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5.4 " 6.2 " 



Length of tegmen 23 ' 28.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 18.3 " 21.3 



In addition to the types a paratypic series of five males (September 

 5 and 14, 1900) have been examined. Considerable color variation is 

 presented by this series, which is roughly divisible into three types; 

 one (a) w'ith the dorsum of the pronotum unicolorous, which is repre- 

 sented by the type alone, another (b) with a rather pale median pro- 

 notal line flanked laterad by blackish, lepresented by three individuals, 

 and a third (c) with a pronotal cross as in the 9 with the caudal margin 

 of the pronotum as pale as the cross, represented by two specimens. 

 The median pale line is distinctly carried to the tips of the tegmina 

 in one of type b, while the transverse tegminal bars are rather regular 

 and distinct, though not complete in some specimens ; a jjale proximal 

 tegminal line is present in two individuals of type b. The dorsum of 

 the caudal femora is distinctly barred in both of type c, and faintly in 

 one of type b, while the lateral face shows distinct oblique bars in several 

 specimens. The color of the caudal tibise in all males other than the 

 type is as in the 9 type. A single c? specimen from Sapucay, Para- 

 guay (III 9.05; Foster, No. 195 part), in the Hebard Collection, is 

 referred to this species. It presents a rather different appearance 




1906.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



when compared with the typical series, but the differences are wholly 

 of color. The dorsum of the pronotum is to a large extent velvety 

 black, broken at the sulci, while the lateral carinte are marked as in 

 specimens of type c. but darker, with the median longitudinal bar 

 present. 



Soyllina piota (Bruner). 



1900. P[lectrotettix] pictus Bruner, .\.cc. Genera Spec. Locusts -\rgent., p. 

 37, fig. 13. [Cordoba and Sante F^ Provinces, CarcaraiSa and Rosario, 

 Argentina.] 



A topotypic series of three males and three females from Carcarana, 

 collected by Bruner, have been examined. 



This species is only known from Cordoba and Sante F6 Provinces, 

 Argentina. 

 Soyllina brnnneri iGigUo-Tos). 



Sapucay, Paraguay. February 13, 1905. 1 c?. (Foster, Hebard 

 Coll.) 



This specimen is considerably darker than any strongly marked 

 specimen of this species seen. The whole insect is quite dark except 

 for the light femoral bars, but the pattern is still distinctly visible, 

 the medio-dorsal and lateral bars being present, and the tegminal 

 streak clear apple green. The size of this specimen is shghtly greater 

 than Matto Grosso specimens. 



Soyllina pratensis (Bruner). 



1904. [Pleclrotettix] pratensis Bruner, Biol. Cent.-.\mer., Orth., II, p. 100. 

 [Pernambuco, Brazil.] 



Paratypic specimens, a c? and £ , of this species, loaned by Prof. 

 Bruner, have been examined. They differ from brasiliensis in the 

 slightly smaller size, rather slenderer form, less divergent carinse of 

 the pronotmn and the more acute fastigium. The color of the caudal 

 tibiae is of little diagnostic value, as in other species of the genus, the 

 male in hand having them wholly red. the female ochraceous with the 

 dorsal sm-face purplish distad and reddish proxiniad. 



Measurements of parcUypes. 



d" 9 



Length of body, 20.2 mm. 26.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 " 5 " 



Length of tegmen IS. 5 " 23.5 



Length of caudal femm-, 15 " 17.5 " 



Soyllina gregaria i.Saussui-e). 



1S61. Stleiwbothrus] gregarius Saussure, Re\'Tie et Magasin de Zoologie, 



2e ser., XIII, p. 31S. [St. Thomas: Haiti.] 

 1903. Pleclrotettix gregarius Rehn, Trans. .\mer. Entom. Soc, XXIX, p. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. 



133. [Utuado, Arroyo. Bayamon and Mayaguez, Porto Rico; Culel^ra and 

 Vieques Islands.] 



A 9 from Vieques Island has been examined in this connection. 



The species is closely related to pmtensis, but differs in the narrower 



space between the eyes and the greater interantennal constriction of 



the frontal costa. It is interesting to note that the known ranges of 



these very closely related species are separated by a distance of over 



two thousand miles, in the land areas of which, as far as at present 



known, no species of the genus is found. 



Scyllina brasiliensis (Bruuer). 



1904. [Pleclroteilix] brasiliensis Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer. , Orth., II, p. 

 100. [Southern Brazil.] 



Sapucay, Paraguay. Id',! 9. Prof. Bruner's Coll. Sapucay, 

 Paraguay. January 28, February 2-27, March 6-10, 1905. 11 dd, 

 20 9 9 . (Foster, Hebard Coll.) Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil. Sep- 

 tember 1-14, 1900. 4 c? d, 6 9 9 . (Hempel, A. N. S. P.) 



The Sapucay specimens loaned by Prof. Bruner are marked as types, 

 although the locality southern Brazil is given with the original brief 

 description. 



The variation in the intensity of the markings of this species is quite 

 considerable. The males appear to be, for this genus, rather uniform 

 in coloration, and the variation in size is not very great. The females, 

 however, vary greatly in the amount and shade of green coloring, 

 some having the dorsal face of the caudal femora, head and the greater 

 portion of the pronotum and pleiu'a rather i)ale apple green, while 

 others have these parts mottled and overlaitl more or less strongly 

 with dull brown. In a few specimens the green, except the tegminal 

 bar, is wholly replaced with a shade of brown, but in such cases the 

 pattern remains the same. In the material examined but very few 

 specimens have the characteristic pattern obscm-ed and even in those 

 cases it is not obliterated. 



As a series the females are quite uniform in size, one Sapucay female, 

 however, being cpiite large. This latter individual is also ^-ery deeply 

 colored. 



The measurements of Bruner's Sapucay specimens and the large 9 

 mentioned above are as follows : 



Bruner. 



d^ 



Length of body, 23.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 21 " 



Length of caudal femur, .... 15 " 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



The records of this species given above cover the known region, 

 from Sao Paulo, Brazil, to western Paraguay. 



Soyllina conspersa (Bruner). 



1904. [Plectrotettix] conspersus Bruner, Biol. Cent.-.\mer. Orth., II, p. 100 

 [No locality.] 



Sapucay, Paraguay. December 17, 1901; December 16, 1904. 

 January 26 and 2S. February S-15, 1905. 9 d" 5", 11 9 ? . (Foster, 

 Hebard Coll.) 



Through the kindness of Prof. Bruner I have before me the type of 

 this species, a 9 from Sapucay, Paraguay. From the material in 

 hand it appears that this species has several color forms, as in bnuuieri 

 and other species. The type has the dorsal surface of the head and 

 pronotimi uniform wood brown without cruciform markings or longi- 

 tudinal median stripe, and a majority of the females and several of the 

 males examined belong to this type. Several males and females have 

 the dorsum dark with weak, but distinct, cruciform pronotal markings 

 and a longitudinal light bar of variable prominence, in some cases 

 absent. In about half the specimens the heavy blackish markings 

 on the lateral lobes of the proiiotum and caudad and ventrad of the 

 eyes are distinct, while the dorsal bars of the caudal femora are dis- 

 tinct in the greater number, weak and interrupted in several others 

 including the type, dorso-lateral carina of the femora marked ventrad 

 with blackish in all specimens, veiy distinct in some, broken and 

 faint in others, the genicular lobes also blackish. 



Measurements of the type. 



Length of body, 34.7 nun. 



Length of pronotum, 6.9 



Length of tegmen, 32.2 " 



Length of caudal lemur, 22.5 " 



Scyllina suffnsa Rehn. 

 Soyllina varipes (Bruner). 



190.5. Plectrotettix varipes Bruner, Entom. News, X\1, p. 214. [Sapucay, 

 Paragua}-.] 



Sapucay, Paraguay, ilarch 5 and 15, 1905. 4 cJ'd^, 5 2 o_ 

 (Foster, Hebard Coll.) 



These specimens have been compared with tA-pical iudi\'iduals 

 kindly loaned by Prof. Bruner. This species is verj- richly colored 

 and one of the more easih^ recognized forms, the distinct femoral bars 

 and the entirely black genicular region being ciuite striking in all the 

 specimens examined. Considerable superficial resemblance exists to 

 S. co72spersa, which is found in the same locality, but the angle of the 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.. 



face and the shorter and heavier caudal femora, as well as the color 

 of the caudal tibife, serve to separate it without difficulty. In the case 

 of this species and S. conspersa the colors of the tibiae appear to be 

 constant, all the specimens of co7ispersa examined having the distal 

 section dark bluish, while the deep rich crimson of the distal two-thirds 

 of varipes is clear and uniform in the whole series. 



Scyllina smithi Eehu. 

 Soyllina borellii GiKlio-Tos. 

 Scyllina schistocercoides Kehu. 

 Soyllina viatoria (Saussure). 



Specimens recorded by the author as this species from Texolo, 

 La Joya, San Luis Potosi and Alta Mira, Tamaulipas, when re-examined 

 in the light of recent work on the Mexican and Central American 

 forms of the genus, prove to represent true viutoria. The males have 

 the dorsal face of the caudal femora distinctly barred, while the 

 females have these parts almost uniform green. 



Soyllina oalida (Bruner). 



1904. Pledroteitix calidus Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 101 

 [Cuernavaca, Morelos and Guerrero, Mexico, Xicaragua, Costa Rica.] 



Previous records of the author of viatoria from Cuernavaca, L'ruapan, 

 Gualajara, Zapotlanejo and Zapotlan should be referred to this species. 



The range of variation in size and coloration in this form is very 

 great, some individuals having the colors weak and poorly defined, 

 while other individuals from the same locality are quite richly colored. 

 The width, number and intensity of the transverse bars of the tegmina 

 also varies greatly as in some indiviiluals they are as broad as the inter- 

 vening sections, while in others they are broken, imperfect and rather 

 pardaline in character and distribution. 



Soyllina exoelsa (Bruner). 



1904. Plectrotettix excelsus Bruner, Biol. Cent.-.\mer., Orth., II, pp. 101-102. 

 [Tlalpam and Tacubaya, Mexico.] 



A male and two females of this species from Tacubaya show that this 

 is probably the most striking Mexican species. These individuals 

 have been previously recorded b}' the author as viatoria. The rather 

 short tegmina, more robust form and heavier caudal femora will 

 assist in separating this from the allied species. These specimens 

 show practically no green, the light shades being ochres. 



PSOLOESSA Scudder. 

 1875. Psoloessa Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XVII, p. 512 

 Included P. texana, ferruginea and maculipennis Scudder, of which 

 maculipennis can be considered the type. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Fsoloessa maculipennis Scudder. 



1S75. Psoloessa maculipennis Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Xat. Hist., XVII, 

 p. 513. 



San Luis Potosi, Mexico. August 5, 1903. 1 9 . (M. E. Hoag, 

 A. N. S. P.) 



This species has been recorded from Texas, New Mexico, Arizona 

 and Cahfornia. 



Psoloessa buddiana Bruner. 



1889. Psoloessa Buddiana Bruner, Proe. U. S. Nat. Mus., XII, p. 61, t. I, 

 fig. 6. [Carrizo Springs, Southwest Texas.] 



Zapotlan, Jalisco, Mexico, July 7, 1902. 6", 9 . (C. H. T. Town- 

 send, A. N. S. P.) 



These specimens are referred here with some little doubt. The 

 species has been recorded from Montelovez, Coahuila. 



STIRAPLEURA Seudder.=« 



1876. Stirapleura Scudder, Ann. Rt-p. Chief of U. S. Engineers, 1876, pt. 

 3, p. 510. 



Type. — Stirapleura decussata Scudder. 



Specimens of all the South American forms of this genus have been 



examined and the species are here listed to show their relationship. 



stirapleura variabilis Bruner. 



Stirapleura signatipennis (Blanchard). 



1851. (Edipoda signatipennis Blanchard, in Gay, Hist. Fis. y Polit. de Chile, 

 Zool., VI, p. 79. [Coquimbo, Chili.] 



Penco, Chili. December, 1903. 7 ? 9 . (C. S. Reed, A. N. S. P.) 

 Concepcion, Chili. 1 9 . (C. S. Reed, A. N. S. P.) 



These specimens fully agree with Blanchard's original description. 

 This is the largest species of the genus, exceeding even the North 

 American S. decussata. An average 9 measures as follows: 



Length of body, 25 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.8 " 



Length of tegmen, 19 " 



Length of caudal femur, 16.5 " 



Stirapleura bruneri n. n. 



1900. Syirapleura] signatipennis Bruner (not (Edipoda signatipennis 

 Blanchard), Gen. Sp. Locusts .Ajgent., p. 34. [.Argentina from the 

 Pampa Central and extending into Uruguay to the eastward.] 



This species is quite distinct from signatipennis Blanchard, as six 



" Saussure's Stenobothrus chilensis (Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser.. 

 XIII, p. 319, 1S61) is no doubt a member of tliis genus, and possibly the male 

 of signatipennis, the female being the only sex known to the author. The size 

 given by him (length with elytra 15 mm.) is much too large for the male of 

 humilis. 



4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



specimens from Carcarana, Argentina, determined by Bruner show. 

 The Argentine form is smaller, with the lateral carinne of the pronotura 

 more constricted and the coloration more variable than in sionatipennis. 

 This is apparently one of the species on which Brunner erected his 

 insufficiently characterized Pseiidosiauronotits ," as specimens received 

 from Saussure from Buenos Ayres bear the manuscript name Pseudo- 

 stauronotus occidentalis. 



Stirapleara hamilis (Blanchard). 



1851. (Edipodn humilis Blanchard, in Gav, Hist. Fis. y Polit. de Chile, 

 Zool., VI, p. 79. [Coquimbo, Chili] 



Penco, Chili. November and December, 1903, and Febniarj', 1904. 

 17 d'd', 16 9 9,5 immat. (C. S. Reed, A. N. S. P.) Coneepcion, 

 Chili. November and December, 1903, and Februan,^ 1904. 20 d" d" , 

 7 9 9,3 immat. (Reed, A. N. S. P.) Coronel, Chili. Januarj-. 1904. 

 Ic?. (Reed, A. N. S. P.) Longuen, Chili. Februan,-. 1904. 2d'c?, 

 4 9 9. (Reed, A. N. S. P.) Guiltio, Chili. December, 1903. 2 

 c? c? , 6 9 9 . (Reed, A. N. S. P.) Lota, Chili. October, 1903. 1 d' . 

 (Reed, A. N. S. P.) 



This large series exliibits a verj' great amount of individual variation 

 in size and color. The females range in total length from 13 to 20 

 millimeters, the males varying proportionately. The color ranges 

 from a mottled black-brown and gray with femoral bars and weakly 

 lateral carince of the pronotimi, to another with the general color pale 

 with broad dark lateral bars on the dorsum of the head and pronotum 

 with a broad pale median bar, a longitudinal dark bar on thetegmina 

 flanked toward the costa by a pale green Une, and the femora with 

 bars and suffused along the dorso-lateral carinae with blacldsh. The 

 latter tj-pe has the markings of the lateral lobes of the pronotum quite 

 distinct and the genicular regions of the caudal femora and tibiae are 

 paler than in the other type, in which these portions are blackish. 

 These differences are irrespective of locality and dat«, and are con- 

 nected by dozens of intermediates. 



Tliis species appears to fit Blanchard's form, some specimens agree- 

 ing very well with the rather vague description. It is apparently a 

 common species. 



Stirapleura pallida Bruner. 

 Stirapleura obscura Bruner. 



The position of this species is a little doubtful. In some respects 

 it resembles bruneri, but its general characters approach brunnea. 

 stirapleura brunnea Rehn. 



" Ann. Mus. Civ. Star. Nat. Genora, XXXIII, p. 123, 1893. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



March 6. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



One hundred and twenty-seven persons present. 



The death of WilUam W. Jefferis, a member, FeVjruary 24, 1906, was 

 announced. 



The reception of a paper entitled "Phylogeny of the Races of 

 Volutilithes petrosus," by Burnett Smith, Ph.D. (February 23), was 

 reported. 



Dr. William P. Wilson made a communication on the Philippine 

 Islands, their resources, their inhabitants and present progress toward 

 independence. (No abstract.) 



March 20. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brotv^, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Sixty-nine persons present. 



Miss Mary 8. Holmes made a communication on the Dos Pueblos 

 Canon, California. (No abstract.) 



Francis William Rawle was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



phylogeny of the races of volutilithes peteosus. 



by burnett smith, ph.d. 

 Introduction. 



In a recent article ' the author has described some of the shell char- 

 acters which, occurring in the later stages of Gastropod ontogeny and 

 phylogeny, mark the gerontic or senile condition of the individual or 

 of the race. It was seen that these senile features may at times be as 

 useful to the student of phylogenj^ as those of the earlier stages, which 

 latter have alwaj's received the more attention. In the paper referred 

 to, the attempt was made to show that the modern Fulgur carica of 

 our New Jersey coast is the descendant of a main F. carica stock, 

 which originated in Pliocene time; and that such forms as F. maximum 

 and its allies, which had heretofore been regarded as ancestral by 

 Grabau ^ and others, are in reality not so at all, but senile offshoots 

 which at an early period in the history of the stock diverged from the 

 main line of descent. The paucity of individuals representing the 

 forms considered ancestral, and the extreme abimdance of the speci- 

 mens of senile forms, was a source of some embarrassment to the 

 author. It is therefore with considerable satisfaction that I am now 

 able, though in another genus {V ohdiliihes) , to present a series in 

 which the forms comprising the main ancestral stock are nearly as 

 plentiful as those which represent the senile offshoots. 



The history of certain of the species of Volutilithes can be well traced 

 in the Eocene of our Gulf States, but nowhere better than in Alabama, 

 where the fine sections along the Alabama and Tombigbee rivers have 

 furnished abundant material for the study of the geological and geo- 

 graphical distribution of these forms. The races and species studied 

 range from the ^latthew's Landing horizon in Alabama to the Jackson 

 horizon in [Mississippi, and therefore represent a fair proportion of the 

 phylogenetic units through nearly the whole of the Eocene. They are 

 likewise restricted to a small geographical area, and the geological 

 s ections in which they appear are unusually good. 



' Senility among Gastropods, Ptoc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., May, 1905. 

 ^ Studies'of Gastropoda, II — Fulgur and Sycotypus, -4m. Nat., Vol. 37. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



The material 'at m_y disposal is very full and complete,' and has 

 enabled me to study large series of individuals. These series in each 

 case represent the forms in the proportions in which they occur in the 

 field, and therefore offer every opportunity for obtaining the average 

 racial characters in any particular locality or horizon. 



Morphology. 



The genus Volulilithes is widely distributed throughout our Southern 

 Eocene. At some localities several sharp and distinct species occur, 

 but at most of the localities Volulilithes is represented by one species 

 and by a particular race of that species. The term race is used in place 

 of variety, for in these assemblages the individuals frequently differ 

 widely. There is, however, always an average of characters which 

 stamps the stage of evolution which the race has attained. Of course, 

 extreme specimens often have more of the features of some other race 

 than of the race to which they belong, but these individuals are always 

 few; and there is never any difficulty in recognizing the general race 

 characters for any particular geographical point, and the phase of 

 phylogenetic development found in the faunule at that point. In 

 cases of this sort, the introduction of varietal and specific names is to 

 be deprecated, and the adoption of the sj-stem of race analysis is 

 strongly urged by the author. 



In the forms under consideration, the first two or three whorls are 

 smooth and rounded, constituting the Smooth Stage. The first orna- 

 mental feature to appear on the smooth, rounded whorl is the trans- 

 verse rib, that is, a slight elevation on the whorl which runs across it 

 from suture to suture. These early ribs are invariably curved slightly, 

 and each one is simple and miiform from suture to sutm-e. The curved 

 ribs persist as a rule for about a quarter or a half of a whorl, or even for 

 a much less space; in fact, sometimes we have only one or two of them. 

 This Curved Rib Stage is short but remarkably constant, and though 

 occasionally much suppressed, has been found in every species and race 

 dealt with in this paper. 



The curved ribs, after about one-third of a whorl, change abruptly 

 into the straight ribs of what has been designated the Cancellated * 



' It forms part of the Isaac Lea Collection of Eocene MoUusca at the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and was brought together largely by Mr. 

 Charles W. Johnson, now of the Boston fciociety of Xatural History. The col- 

 lections are a tribute to his skill and perseverance as a collector, and are an example 

 of what museum research collections should be. 



* See Dall, Trans. Wag. Inst., Vol. Ill, p. 68. 




51 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Stage, which begins by the appearance of two sweOings or tubercles 

 on each rib. One of these tubercles is near the suture, and the other 

 at the position which is later occupied by the shoulder angle. They 

 will be referred to as the suture and shoulder tubercles respectively. 

 These two tubercles are often of nearly equal size at the start, though 

 frequently the suture tubercle is the larger. Tubercles other than 

 these two mentioned are seldom visible on an early rib; but when a 

 sufficiently small shell is obtainable, other smaller tubercles can be 

 seen upon each rib, and the tubercles diminish in size quite regularly 

 from the suture tubercle downward. Each tubercle is connected with 

 the corresponding tubercle of the next rib by a faint spiral, the first 

 appearance of the definite cancellation which later becomes more 

 pronounced. In most specialized forms the shoulder angle develops 

 shortly after the appearance of the tubercles. 



The cancellated condition is found more or less well developed in 

 all the different races. In primitive species ° it may persist as a con- 

 stant feature to the entl of the individual's life; but in most forms it 

 covers only a few whorls and is more variable than the preceding 

 Curved Rib Stage, in that certain of its features change as the shell 

 grows. These changes are gradual, but they render the end of the 

 Cancellated Stage much less definite than its beginning. They may 

 be briefly summarized as follows : The tubercles, with the exception of 

 the shoulder tubercle, usually tend to degenerate, and soon disappear, 

 though their corresponding faint spirals may sometimes persist. 



The shoulder tubercle, on the contrary, becomes stronger and sharper. 

 First the ribbing above the shoulder disappears, and later the ribbing 

 below the shoulder shortens, and with its practical disappearance 

 what might be termed the Spiny Stage is inaugurated. 



In the Spiny Stage the shoulder tubercle is now sharp and spine-like. 

 Other tubercles have disappeared and the spirals are, as a rule, re- 

 stricted to the region of the anterior siphon. Ribbing has practically 

 gone, but very short rudiments may sometimes still be present below 

 the shoulder spines. The commencement of this stage is never sharp, 

 for it is the result of gradual change from the preceding one." It is 



' In Am. Nat. tor 1902, Vol. 36, p. 926, Grabau says: "It is perhaps not too 

 much to say that in the majority of the larger phyletic series, except those highly 

 speoiahzed, the radicle is a smooth, round-whorled form, succeeded by types in 

 which the adults are ribbed, and later cancellated, after which progressive modi- 

 fication may be carried further." 



•No morphological distinction is made between spine and tubercle. "The 

 writer considers that the difference between the small rounded tubercle of the 

 early whorls and the large, sharp spine of the later whorl is one merely of degree. 




1906.) NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. f5 



not reached in all species, but occurs usually as the end term of normal 

 progressive development in the ontogeny, and of slow and even evolu- 

 tion in the phylogeny. 



The Spiny Stage, then, may sometimes be present as a well-defined 

 stage, but it may also be accompanied by extreme individual variation 

 and by features of senility. These latter characterize the Senile 

 Stage, and may follow regularly after the Spiny Stage; but, as stated 

 above, they not infrequently are thrown back by acceleration, and 

 fomid together in the same whorl with the features of the Spin}' Stage. 



The Senile Stage, whether following normally after the Spiny Stage 

 or associated with it, is always easily distinguished. In the forms 

 under consideration its most important features are the following : ' 



1. Tendency for the shoulder spines to pass into a shoulder keel. 



2. IiTegularity of growth lines. 



3. Thickening of the shell. 



4. Encroachment of the anal siphon upward on the preceding whorl. 



5. Protrusion of the mantle in the region of the anal siphon, pro- 

 ducing a smoothing of the preceding whorl by a shelly overgrowth. 



These five characters are all sometimes found together in one in- 

 dividual or race, but, as a rule, only two or three of them are so asso- 

 ciated. 



In studying the development of the shell featiu-es. each whorl has 

 been taken up in detail, and its particular ornamental characteristics 

 noted. Of course, this system is more or less arbitrary, and at times 



u 



Fig. 1. — Line sliows position taken for the end of the first whorl. 



inaccurate, on account of the acceleration of features in certain in- 

 dividuals. In the following study, the writer has endeavored to get 

 the average characters for a certain whorl, except where individual 

 variation is great. In this latter case the variations are noted. 



The word spine is therefore used, throughout this paper, simply in a descriptive 

 sense, and implies no difference from the early tubercle, except that it is larger and 

 sharper. Botli are produced Viy tlie same fold in the mantle, and every gradation 

 between the two is observable." Smith, Burnett, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 Mav, 1905. p. 347. Tliis opinion is quite different from that held bv Grabau 

 (see Am. Sat., Vols. 36, 37). 



' For a discussion of senility see Smith, Burnett, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 May, 1905. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



In counting the whorls, it has been attempted to have the end of 

 the first whorl come in about the position shown in the figure. It is 

 impossible to make an absolutel}^ exact count, but if care is used there 

 will seldom be much of an error in the last whorl. As stated above, 

 the method is pmely arbitraiy, but it seemed to the -ftTiter to be the 

 only practical way in which the statistics of the development of orna- 

 mental features could be arranged. 



Fig. 2. — Volutilithes limopsis Conrad. jMattliew's Lauding, Ala. Apex 

 enlarged, showing smooth stage followed by the curved rib stage, which begins 

 in the latter part of whorl four. Whorl five shows the cancellated stage. 

 Length = 1 .6 mm. 



Volutilithes limopsis Courad. 



Locality — Matthew's Landing. Ala. 



This species was originalh' described by Conratl in Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 2d Series, Vol. iV, p. 292, PL 47, fig. 24. 



Whorls 1, 2, .3 — Smooth and rounded. 



Whorl 4 — Smooth and rounded, except toward the end, where the 

 curved rib stage may start. 



TVliorl 5 — The cm-\-ed rib stage often commences earl}' in five, per- 

 sisting as a rule for about a cjuarter of a whorl. The cancellated stage 

 follows abruptly with its straight, tubercled ribs. These tubercles 

 are largest at the suture, decreasing regularly in size anteriorly on each 

 rib. Each tubercle is connected with the corresponding tubercle of 

 the next rib by a faint spiral. A shoulder angle is never developed. 



Wlaorls 6, 7 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much like 

 the latter part of five. 



Whorl 8 — Characterized b}- the cancellated stage and much like 

 six and seven. The tubercles nearest the sutm'e are the strongest, and 

 they diminish in size regularly as the rib is followed anteriorl}-. The 

 ribs are also less prominent anteriorly, disappearing entirely on the 

 branchial siphon. Spirals cover the entire whorl. 



Whorls 9, 10 — Much as in eight, the cancellated stage still persisting. 




l!)06.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



The tubercles are a little sharp, and the protruded mantle shows a 

 very slight tendency to smooth the preceding whorl — a tendency which 

 in later forms results in a senile feature. 



Retnarks. — ^This form possesses no stage later than the cancellated 

 stage and never has a shoulder angle. The suture tubercle is through- 

 out life the dominant one. The specimens are remarkably uniform, 

 no perceptible individual variation occurring. The smooth stage is 

 very long. From its primitive characteristics, and its geological posi- 

 tion near the base of the Eocene, the wiiter has no hesitation in assign- 

 ing to it an ancestral position among the races and species dealt with 

 in this paper. 



Fig. 3. — Volulilithes rugatus Conrad. Matthew's Landing, Ala. Adult indi- 

 vidual. Length =44 mm. 



Volutilithes rugatus Conrad. 



Locality — Matthew's Landing, Ala. 



This specie.? was originally described by Conrad as Volutilithes 

 rugata in Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d Series, Vol. IV, p. 292, PI. 

 47, fig. 32. 



Wlaorls 1, 2, 3 — Smooth and rounded. 



Wliorl 4 — Smooth and rounded, except near the end, where in many 

 individuals the curved rib stage begins. 



Wliorl 5 — The ciu-ved rib stage usually occupies the latter part of 

 four and early part of five. Its ribs are wide apart and it persists for 

 about a quarter of a whorl. It is followed by the straight, tubercled 

 ribs of the cancellated stage. The two upper tubercles are the largest, 

 those below becoming fainter anteriorly. The ribs die away anteriorly 

 on the branchial siphon. Each tubercle is connected with the corre- 

 sponding one of the next whorl by a spiral. 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Whorls 6, 7, 8 — All characterized by the cancellated stage. Changes, 

 however, take place during these whorls. At first the ornamentation 

 is much like that of the cancellated stage in V. l{>7iops>s, but later the 

 ribs become relatively farther apart and broader (in a spiral direction). 

 At the same time many fine riblets are introduced between the pri- 

 mary ribs. The tubercles are largest near the sutiu-e and become smaller 

 as the ribs die away anteriorly. There is never a distinct shoulder 

 angle. The whorls are coveretl with spirals. 



Wliorl 9 — Indiviilual variation now sets in. In some specimens the 

 whorl is much as in eight. In others the rib is swollen into a very 

 rounded, transversely long angle which hardly occupies the position 

 of the shoulder angle of later forms, and in addition the shells become 

 thick. In all individuals the mantle protrudes in the region of the 

 anal siphon, and tends to smooth the preceding whorl with a shelly 

 overgrowth. This latter is never extreme. 



Whorl 10 — JIuch as in nine, though here the forms with swollen 

 ribs predominate. In many specimens the shells become thick, the 

 growth lines irregidar, and the smoothing of the preceiiing whorl by 

 the shelly overgrowth is quite well marked, though it never becomes 

 e.xtreme as in some forms of later time. 



Renuirks. — This species in its earlier stages of growth closely re- 

 sembles V. liiiiopsis. It differs radically, however, from that form 

 with the progress of its ontogeny. Though its individuals vary greatly, 

 it is nevertheless entitletl (in the opinion of the author) to rank as a 

 distinct species. In its later whorls there is great individual variation, 

 accompanied by senile featm'es. These latter, though never extreme, 

 are well marked. They comprise protrusion of the mantle in tlie 

 region of the anal siphon, producing a smoothing of the preceding 

 whorl by a shelly overgrowth; thickening of the shell, and irregularity 

 of growth lines. There is no spiny stage. V. rugatus is considered 

 to be a short senile offshoot from V. limopsis. In the absence of 

 intermediate forms this evolution must have taken place either at 

 some other locality or at some geologically earlier date. 



Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. 



The forms described at the present day under this name represent 

 an assemblage of races. If every gradation of evolutional develop- 

 ment tlid not exist among them, many of these races would doubtless 

 now be regarded as distinct species. In fact, there are several dis- 

 carded specific names which were used in this way by Conrad and Lea. 

 Each race is an assemblage of individuals, showing more or less in- 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



dividual variation, yet nevertheless possessing on the average definite 

 racial characters. In other words, the majority of specimens from 

 any one locality or horizon show a certain stage of evolution. Some 

 of the specimens may show developmental features characterizing 

 either a more primitive or a less primitive race; but these specimens 

 are few, and are not typical of the average of individuals from the 

 locality or horizon to which they belong. 



The races of V. petrosus are known to range from the Nanafalia beds 

 to the Jackson beds inclusive. The original specific description * is 

 accompanied by a figiu-e of a member of the Claiborne race. Though 

 this particular race is perhaps not the most typical expression of the 

 V. petrosus main stock, the writer feels that no better method can be 

 employed than to use the name V. petrosus to designate the assemblage 

 of races under discussion. 



Several of the races differ in the development of senile characters 

 from the V. petrosus main stock, but there is every gradation between 

 these and the representatives of the main stock. On account of this 

 gradation the senile forms are included as races of V. petrosus. in spite 

 of the fact that their old individuals differ greatly in appearance from 

 those of the more normal tj-pe. 



The young of all the races, senile and otherwise, are remarkably 

 uniform and constant. The early whorls indicate clearly that they 

 are all descended from a cancellated ancestor, and bear a strong re- 

 semblance, especially in the cancellated stage, to the characters of 

 V. limopsis. In the absence of any record of a V. petrosus being found 

 below the horizon of the Nanafalia beds, the author believes that it 

 is perfectly safe to conclude that all these races in cjuestion are de- 

 scended from the V. limopsis of the Matthew's Landing horizon. 



Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. 



Nanafalia Race. 



Locality — Nanafalia, Ala. 



The only specimen known to the ■nTiter from this horizon is not suf- 

 ficiently well preserved to admit of its accm-ate study whorl for whorl. 

 It is, however, a perfectly normal specimen of moderate size and ex- 

 presses the general characters of the V. petrosus main stock. It is 

 about the size of the eight-whorled individuals of the Gregg's Landing 

 or the Jackson races. When it is placed in line with such specimens, 

 ■ the three shells exhibit very few differences. This Nanafalia individual 



* Valuta petrosa Conrad, "Fossil Shells of the Tertiary Formations of North 

 America. ' ' 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



has spines in its last whorl whicli make it resemble the Jackson race 

 quite closely. In this respect it is nearer the Jackson specimens than 

 the Gregg's Landing specimens. Its mantle perhaps smooths the 

 preceding whorl a trifle more than does the mantle in the Jackson race. 

 However, in its general features, it is very close to the Jackson form. 

 The amount which the mantle has smoothed the preceding whorl is 

 about equal to that found in shells of the same size from Gregg's 

 Landing. 



Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. 



Gregg's Landing Race. 



Locality — Gregg's Landing, Alabama River, Ala. 



A^Hiorls 1, 2, 3 — Smooth and rounded. 



Whorl 4 — The curved rib stage begins early in four. It persists for 

 a quarter or a third of a whorl, but changes abruptly into the can- 

 cellated stage with its straight, tubercled ribs. The shoulder and 

 suture tubercles are of about the same size at first. By the end of 

 four the shoulder angle is Cjuite well developed. 



Whorl 5 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much like the 

 latter part of four. Suture and shoulder tubercles are of about the 

 same size. The shoulder angle is well developed. Tubercles are 

 connected by fine spirals. 



Whorl 6 — Characterized by the cancellated stage, but changes occur. 

 The shoulder tubercle is becoming stronger, while the sutiu"e tubercle 

 is getting weaker. The ribbing above the shoukler angle is also 

 becoming weaker. 



Whorl 7 — Still characterized bj' the cancellated stage, but here 

 the suture tubercle has disappeared and is only represented by its 

 spiral. The ribbing above the shoulder angle has gone, though it is 

 still well represented below the .shoulder angle. 



Whorl 8 — Still characterized by the cancellated stage and much like 

 whorl seven. Below the shoulder angle the whorl is covered with fine 

 spirals. There is a very slight smoothing of the preceding whorl by 

 the protruded mantle, for the end of the cancellated stage is not sharp 

 like that of the cm-ved rib stage. 



Whoi-1 9 — From here on individual variation is great. Some forms 

 have a whorl much as in eight, with the ribbing still well developed 

 below the shoulder, though the shoulder tubercles are more spine- 

 like. In other specimens the ribbing below the shoulder is gone, the 

 shoulder spines are more extreme, and the anal siphon shows a tend- 

 enc}^ to encroach upward on the preceding whorl. In addition, these 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



latter forms have a heavier shell, and the shelly smoothing of the pre- 

 ceding whorl by the protruded mantle is more marked. 



Whorl 10 — Here again we have every gradation between forms char- 

 acterized by the spiny stage, in which the preceding whorl has been 

 only slightly smoothed by the mantle, and forms which show a moder- 

 ate development of senile featiu-es. These latter show the tendency 

 for the spines to pass into a shoulder keel. They also possess a thick 

 shell with irregular growth lines, the anal siphon encroaches upward, 

 and the preceding whorl is smoothed by the shellj- overgrowth of the 

 protruded mantle. Though these latter forms possess senile features, 

 these features are only slightly developed. They are, in fact, just the 

 beginnings of those characteristics which become so extreme in some 

 of the races of later time. 



Remarks. — This race occurs in the Gregg's Landing marl. The 

 greater number of individuals of the Gregg's Landing race have a 

 perfectly normal ontogeny, and in their later whorls have the spiny 

 stage well marked. These individuals belong therefore to the V. 

 petrosus main stock, and as they form a majorit}- of the assemblage, 

 they determine the position of the race to be on the main stock. A 

 minority of individuals, however, show senile features. These senile 

 features are not well marked, but they indicate that here in this race 

 was inaugurated the tendency which resultetl in the development of 

 the senile races of later time. In other words, we have here the point 

 where a senile offshoot is starting to branch frgm the main ancestral 

 stock. The marks of this tendency are but slight, and the individuals 

 are few; yet, nevertheless, the tendency is plainly recognizable. 



Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. 



Bell's Landing Race. 



Localitj^ — Bell's Landing, Alabama River, Ala. 



WTiorls 1, 2, 3 — Smooth and rounded. 



Whorl 4 — The curved rib stage commences early in four and per- 

 sists for about a quarter of a whorl. It is followed by the straight, 

 tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage. The suture and shoulder 

 tubercles are about equal in size, and the shoulder angle soon becomes 

 well marked. Spirals connect the tubercles. 



Whorl 5 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and closelj^ re- 

 sembles the latter part of four. 



Wiorl 6 — Characterized by the cancellated stage. Suture tubercles 

 grow weaker, shoulder tubercles grow stronger. Ribbing above the 

 shoulder also grows weaker, but it is well marked below the shoulder. 



Whorl 7 — Much as in six. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Whorl 8 — Still characterized by the cancellated stage, but the suture 

 tubercles and the ribbing above the shoulder have now gone. Shoul- 

 der tubercles are stronger. Ribbing below the shoulder is weaker. 

 The beginning of the tendency to form a shelly overgrowi;h is seen, 

 and the cancellated stage comes to an end. 



Wliorl 9 — Ribbing is about gone and the shoulder tubercles have 

 become spines. In other words, the spiny stage has set in. In most 

 individuals, however, the senile characters are also mingled with those 

 of the spiny stage. The shell gets thicker, and the mantle protrudes 

 in the region of the anal siphon, and smooths the preceding whorl with 

 a shelly overgrowth. This latter, though not extreme, often covers 

 the spines of eight, which, however, are visible through it. 



Whorls 10, 11, 12 — In these whorls we simply have an exaggeration 

 of the characters of nine. The featiu-es of the spiny stage and the 

 marks of senility are found together in tlie same whorl. Toward the 

 end senile characters are quite well marked. The shell becomes 

 thick, the growth lines irregular, the anal siphon encroaches upward, 

 and the shoulder spines tend to pass into a shoulder keel. In addition, 

 the shelly overgrowth produced by the protruded mantle is well 

 marked, and in some specimens may be quite thick. As a rule, how- 

 ever, the spines of the preceding whorl can be counted through the 

 shelly envelope. 



Rein^rks. — This race occurs in the Bell's Landing marl. Though 

 occasionally a rare specimen may nearly approach the V. petrosus 

 main stock in its general features, the \-ast majority of individuals 

 show such a development of senile characters that it is necessary to 

 consider the race to be a senile offshoot from the main stem. These 

 senile marks though typcal are not highly developed. This race 

 unquestionably sprang from the senile individuals which occiu'red as a 

 minority in the otherwise normal, geologically earlier Gregg's Landing 

 race. 



Volutilithes petrosas Conrad. 



Wood's Bluff Race. 



Locality — Wood's Bluff, Tombigbee River, .\la. 



Whorls 1, 2, 3 — ^Smooth and rounded. 



WTiorl 4 — The ciu-ved rib stage appears early in four and persists 

 for about a quarter of a whorl. It is followed bj- the straight, tubercled 

 ribs of the cancellated stage. The suture and shoulder tubercles are 

 about equal in size. A shoulder angle soon develops. The tubercles 

 are connected b}- spirals. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



Whorl 5 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and closely resem- 

 bling the latter part of four. 



Whorl 6 — Characterized by the cancellated stage. Ribbing above 



Fig. 4. — Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. Wood's Bluff Race. Wood's Bluff, 

 .\la. Apex enlarged. The first three whorls are characterized by the smooth 

 stage. In whorl four the passage from the curved rib stage to the cancellated 

 stage can be seen. Whorl five shows the cancellated stage. It will be noted 

 that the stages are all more accelerated than in text fig. 2. Length = 1.. 5 mm. 



the shoulder growing weaker, though well marked below the shoulder. 

 Suture tubercles weaker, shoulder tubercles stronger. 



Whorl 7 — Mtich as in latter part of six. 



Whorl 8 — Still characterized by the cancellated stage, but the suture 

 tubercles are gone, and are represented only by their spiral. Ribbing 

 above the shoulder has disappeared, though it is still present below 

 the shoulder. The ribbing below the shoulder is, however, weaker. 

 The tendency to form a shelly overgrowth is plainly seen. Though 

 its end is not well marked, the cancellated stage comes to a close with 

 this whorl. 



Whorl 9 — The spiny stage usuall}' begins with this whorl. It is, 

 however, accompanied by well-de^•eloped senile features, the most 

 marked of which is the shelly overgrowth, which is produced by the 

 protrusion of the mantle on to the preceding whorl. 



Whorls 10, 11, 12 — Here we have simply an exaggeration of what 

 occurs in nine. The shelly overgrowth is extreme, obscuring the 

 ornamentation of several of the earlier whorls. The shell becomes 

 thick, the growth lines irregidar, the anal siphon encroaches upward, 

 and the shoulder spines tend to pass into a shoulder keel. 



Remarks. — This is tj-pically a senile race. No individuals of more 

 than eight whorls ever approach in their general appearance the V. 

 petrosus main stock. All specimens exliibit senile characters. These 

 latter are much more extreme than those found in the geologically 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



earlier Bell's Landing race. It has unquestionably been evolved from 

 the Bell's Landing race by an exaggeration of senile characters. 



Volntilithes petrosns Conrad. 



Hatchetigbee Bluff Race. 



Locality — Hatchetigbee Bluff, Tombigbee River, Ala. 



The series of yoimg individuals at hand is so small, and the shelly 

 overgrowth produced by the protruded mantle is so great in the old 

 individuals, that a detailed study of the specimens, whorl for whorl, 

 is not practical. 



These forms are extraordinarih' senile, and have been derived from 

 the geologically earlier Wood's Bluff race by an exaggeration of the 

 senile features. The shoulder spines tend to pass into a shoulder 

 keel, the shell is thick, the growth lines irregular, the anal siphon 

 encroaches upward, and the preceding whorl is encumbered with the 

 shelly overgrowth. This last feature is very extreme. In addition 

 the race is, on the whole, a dwarfed race, the full-grown individuals 

 being smaller than those of the earlier less senile races. This race is 

 the end term of the senile offshoot which diverged from the V. petrosns 

 main stock in Bell's Landing time. The author knows of no authentic 

 abnormal senile specimen from beds higher than the Hatchetigbee 

 horizon in Alabama or Mississippi.' 



Volntilithes petrosns Conrad. 



Yellow Bluff Race. 



Locality — Yellow Bluff, Alabama River, Ala. 



Unfortunately the material at hand is not sufficiently well preserved 

 to give a detailed description, whorl for whorl. Nevertheless,^there is 

 no difficulty in making out the following points. The great majority 

 of individuals possess, in general, the characters of the V. petrosus 

 main stock, and have arrived at little more than that evolutional 

 stage which is typified by the Gregg's Landing race. 



Though a few individuals exhibit senile characters, these latter are 

 only very slightly developed, and we are undoubtedly warranted in 

 placing the Yellow Bluff race on the VolutiUthcs petrosus main stock 

 as the descendant of the Gregg's Landing race. 



The exact stratigraphical horizon for this race is unknown to the 



•See Trmis. Wag. Inst., Vol. Ill, part 1, p. 75. The statement made'on this 

 page by Dall is not borne out by a study of full collections. He says that Athleta 

 "is foreshadowed by the distorted specimens of Volutilitlies petrosa to which I 

 have already referred, and which occur from the Lower Eocene of .\labama 

 (Wood's Bliiff) up to the Claiborne Sands and the beds known as Jackson, over- 

 lying the Claiborne, associated witli the undistorted normal form, whicli is always 

 more numerous." _i. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



author. It cannot, however, be lower than that of the Bell's Landing 

 marl. If it is at the same horizon, we have an example of a slightly 

 senile race (the Bell's Landing) living at the same period of time not 

 ■ far from a race (the Yellow Bluff) which e.xliibits, on the whole, main 

 stock characteristics. If, on the other hand, the Yellow Bluff race 

 occupies a position above the Bell's Landing marl, we have a primitive 

 race overlying a more specialized race. If this latter is the case, a 

 discordance between the geological and phylogentic successions has 

 been produced by the migration into the section of the Yellow Bluff 

 race. 



Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. 



Lower Claiborne Horizon, Claiborne, Ala. 



Aery poorly preserved specimens are found in these beds. They 

 are determinable as representatives of the V. petrosus main stock, but 

 a detailed stud}', whorl for whorl, is not practical. 



Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. 



Claiborne Race. 



Locality — Claiborne, Ala. 



Whorls 1, 2, 3 — Smooth and rounded. 



Wliorl 4 — Early in foiu' the curved rib stage appears. It is not well 

 marked, persisting for but a short time, and is soon followed by the 

 straight, tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage. The shoulder angle 

 soon develops. The suture and shoulder tubercles are of about the 

 same size. 



Whorl 5 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much as in 

 the latter part of four. Spirals not strong. Suture tubercle weakens, 

 shoidder tubercle becomes stronger. 



Whorl 6 — Characterized by the cancellated stage. The suture 

 tubercle and the ribbing above the shoulder are almost gone. Shoul- 

 der tubercle stronger. Ribbing below shoukler is weaker. 



Wliorl 7 — The ribbing and the suture tubercles disappear, and the 

 shoulder tubercles develop into spines diu'ing this whorl. In other 

 words, we have the transition from the cancellated to the spiny stage. 



Whorls 8, 9, 10 — ^All characterized by the spiny stage, but individual 

 variation is great. Senile features do not appear. 



Remarks. — Occurs in the Claiborne Fossiliferous Sand. This race 

 exhibits in general the characters of the V. petrosus main stock, though 

 it is probably not the most typical expression of that stock as it existed 

 at the time of the Claiborne deposits. The most notable features are 

 the shortening of the curved rib stage and the acceleration of the spiny 

 5 




66 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



stage, which is long and well developed though accompanied by con- 

 siderable individual variation. The curved rib and cancellated stages 

 are very short. 



Fig. 5 — VolutiUthes sai/atia Conrad. Claiborne, Ala. Apex enlarged, show- 

 ing ornamental features thrown far back by acceleration. The smooth stage 

 is almost entirely confined to the large first whorl. In whorl two the transition 

 from the straight untubercled ribs (suppressed curved rib stage) to the can- 

 cellated stage is seen. Whorl three shows the cancellated stage. Length = 

 l.S mm. 



Fig. 6. — VolutiUthes sayatia Conrad. Claiborne, Ma. Adult indi\'idual. 



Length =48 mm. 



VolutiUthes sayana Conrad. 



Locality — Claiborne, Ala. 



This species was originally described as Valuta sayana by Conrad.'" 

 Wiorl 1 — Smooth and rounded. 



WHiorl 2 — Smooth and rounded at first, but soon ribbing begins. 

 Untubercled ribs are the first ribs, but they are not curved. Neverthe- 



' Fossil Shells of the Tertiary Formations of North America. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPEIIA. 67 



less they probably represent the cur\-eil rili stage and -will be assigned 

 to it. They persist for only a short while and are followed by the tiiber- 

 cled ribs of the cancellated stage. At first the suture tubercle is con- 

 siderably larger than the shoidder tubercle. A shoulder angle soon 

 develops, and by the end of the whorl the suture and shoulder tubercles 

 are about of the same size. 



T\niorls 3, 4 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much as 

 in latter part of two. Changes however occur, for the ribbing above 

 the shoulder and the suture tubercles weaken, though the shoulder 

 tubercle becomes stronger. The spirals are not' well marked. 



After whorl four great individual variation sets in. The cancellated 

 stage may persist through the sixth whorl. After this the individual 

 variation is still more marked. Many specimens pass through the 

 spiny stage, though it is considerably modified by the development of 

 numerous secondarj' spirals and riblets. In many specimens the 

 shoulder spines are long in a transverse direction and notched by several 

 spirals. Sometimes the whorl maj' be of a rounded shape, with the 

 spines blunt, weak and obscure. 



Remarks. — Occurs in the Claiborne Fossiliferous Sand. This most 

 A-ariable species has an apex very different from those of the other 

 forms considered in this paper. The smooth stage is nearly all con- 

 fined to the first whorl, which is extraordinarily large for Volutilithes. 

 By a careful study of its ontogeny it is plain, however, that thLs species 

 was derived by acceleration from the Claiborne race of V. petrosus, or 

 else from some form very close to it. We are forced, then, to-the con- 

 clusion that shells with rather different apices may sometimes be very 

 nearly related ; in spite of the fact that, as a rule, this condition pre- 

 cludes close affinity. Though this variable species may have given 

 rise to species and races of later age than the Claiborne, the writer has 

 no evidence to that effect. The anal siphon does not encroach up- 

 ward, and the protruded mantle smooths the preceding whorl but 

 little; nevertheless, the thickness of the shell and the irregularity of 

 growth lines in many of the older individuals point to the fact that it 

 is a senile race. It is well developed in the Claiborne horizon at several 

 points, where it is always variable and more numerous than the Clai- 

 borne race of V. petrosus. From this latter race it was probably 

 evolved during or just before Claiborne time, and may therefore be con- 

 sidered as a senile offshoot from the 1'. petrosus main stock. 



Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. 



Jackson Race. 



Locality — Jackson, ]\Iiss. 




6S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



An individual of this race was originally described by Com-ad as 

 Volutalithes symmetrica}'^ 



Whorls 1, 2 — Smooth and rounded. 



Whorl 3 — The curved rib stage commences early in tlu'ee and per- 

 sists for about a quarter of a whorl. It is followed by the straight 

 tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage. The suture and shoulder 

 tubercles are about equal in size. By the end of the whorl the shoidder 

 angle is well marked. 



Whorls 4, 5 — Characterized by the cancellated stage. Ribbing 

 above the shoulder weakens, as does also the sutiu-e tubercle. Shoulder 

 tubercle gets stronger. Ribbing below the shoulder well marked and 

 crossed by fine spirals. 



Wliorl 6 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much as in 

 five. 



Fig. 7 — Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. Jackson Race. Jackson, Miss. Apex 

 enlarged. Whorls one and two sliow tlie smooth stage. Whorl three 

 shows the curved rib stage and wliorl four the cancellated stage. It will be noted 

 that the stages are all more accelerated than in text fig. 4, but less accelerated 

 than in text fig. 5. Length = 1.3 mm. 



Wliorl 7 — Characterized by the cancellated stage. Ribbing gone 

 above the shoulder, but well developed below the shoulder, and crossed 

 by fine spirals. Sutm-e tubercles almost gone though represented by 

 a spiral. Shoulder tubercle stronger and sharper. 



Whorl S — Much like seven, btit toward the end the ribs disappear, 

 the shoulder tubercle becomes a spine, and the cancellated stage comes 

 to a close. 



Whorl 9 — Characterized by the spiny stage. High shoulder spines 

 and no ribs. Spirals well developed, but strongest on the anterior 

 siphon. 



Whorl 10 — In many indi\-iduals the shoulder spines tend to pass 

 into a shoulder keel, the shell thickens, and the growth lines become 

 irregular. The shelly smoothing of the preceding whorl by the pro- 

 truded mantle is only slight. This whorl is characterized by the senile 

 stage. 



" Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Vol. VII, p. 260. In this case "Volutalithes" 

 is probably a t}-pogr.iphicai error. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. f)9 



Remarks. — This race shows a regular and even ontogeny. The 

 different stages are quite distinct. The senile characters are not 

 thrown back into the spiny stage but follow regularly after it, and 

 constitute the culminating featin-e of individual development. These 

 marks of old age are never extreme. Acceleration early in life has 

 placed the curved rib stage at the beginning of the third whorl, and 

 the cancellated stage has been correspondingh^ lengthened. The 

 cancellated stage is longer here than in any of the other forms con- 

 sidered in this paper except V. limopsis. This assemblage is the last 

 representative of Yolutilithes in the Alabama and Mississippi Eocene. 

 It fulfills every requirement for position on the V. petrosus main stem, 

 it is the culminant race of the stock, and has attained its characters 

 by a slow and even phylogenetic development. 



Volutilithes haleanus Whitfield. 



Locality — Lisbon, Ala. 



Wliorls 1, 2 — Smooth and rounded. 



WTiorl 3 — Smooth and rounded at first, but later the curved rib stage 

 begins. This persists for about a quarter of a whorl, and is then fol- 

 lowed bjr the straight, tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage. The 

 shoulder tubercle is just a trifle larger than the suture tubercle. The 

 shoulder angle is well marked by the end of the whorl. 



WTiorl 4 — Characterized by the cancellated stage. Shoulder angle. 

 Shoulder tubercle stronger than the suture tubercle. 



WTiorls 5, 6 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much like 

 whorl four. During these whorls the suture tubercle tends to attain 

 the same strength as the shoulder tubercle. Spirals not very well 

 marked. 



WTiorl 7 — From here on the primitive cancellated stage is replaced 

 by what may be called a modified cancellated stage. The suture 

 and shoulder tubercles are now of about the same size. The ribs are 

 crowded so closely together that they are almost in contact, being 

 separated bj' a mere depressed line. The shoulder tubercles are so 

 close together that the general effect is that of a whorl with a shoulder 

 keel. 



Whorls S, 9 — iluch as in seven, but toward the end the shell becomes 

 thick and the growth lines slightlj' irregular. The protruded mantle 

 produces only an insignificant smoothing of the preceding whorl. 



Remarks. — By a study of its early whorls it is evident that this form 

 was at some time derived from the V. petrosus main stock. Its can- 

 cellated stage closely resembles that of the races of V. petrosus until we 

 reach the seventh whorl. After that it is quite different in its general 




70 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



characters from every other American species of Volutilithes. Just 

 when it diverged from the V. petrosus main stoclv the writer is not 

 prepared to say. This race has, properly speaking, no senile stage. 



In order to show more clearly some of the important correlations 

 between the ontogeny and phylogeny, the following tables are intro- 

 duced. The figures stand for the number of the whorl, while the letters 

 are used for the different ontogenetic stages as follows: 



A — Smooth Stage. 



B — Curved Rib Stage. 



C — Cancellated Stage. 



D — Spiny Stage. 



E — Senile Stage. 

 I — Individual ^^ariation. 



This last may appear anywhere, but it usually follows stage C. B 

 is exaggerated in all the tables. 



V. limopsis. 

 Matthew's Ldg. 



V. petrosus. 

 Gregg's Ldg. Race. 



V. petrosus. 

 Jackson Race. 



E. is very slight. 



E. is never extreme 



Table I. — Showing slow, even evolution in the main stock, accompanied by 



acceleration. 



V. limopsis. 

 Matthew's Ldg. 



V. petrosus. 

 Gregg's Lag. Race. 



V. petrosus. 

 BeU's Ldg. Race. 



V. petrosus. 

 Wood's Bluff Race. 



E. is very slight. 



E. is slight. 



E. is extreme. 



Table. II. — Showina; senility in an ofl'shoot. The senility increases, not by an 

 acceleration, but bv an exaggeration of senile features. 




1006.] 



NATURAL SCTENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



71 



T'^. limopsis. 

 Matthew's Ldg. 



V. pelrosua. 

 Gregg's Lag. Race. 



V. peirosua. 

 Claiborne Race. 



T. sayana. 

 Claiborne. 



E. is very slight. 



I. is great. 



D. is much modi- 

 iied. I. is great. 



Table III. — Evolution of V. sayana through the Claiborne race of V. 

 petrosus. Shows geueral acceleration, condensation of B, and reduction 

 in the number of whorls. 



V. limopsis. 

 Matthew's Ldg. 



Y. rugatus. 

 Matthew's Ldg. 



I. is the transition 

 between C. and E 



Table IY. — Shows evolution of V. rugatus from the primitive ancestral stock 

 by the appearance of senile features in the last whorl or iu the last two 

 whorls. 



Range and Distribution. 



Of the forms considered in this paper Volutilithes limopsis stands out 

 distinctly as fulfilling all the requirements of an ancestor. Among 

 other characters, the long smooth stage and the absence of senile fea- 

 tures show its primitive state. The general likeness of the full-grown 

 shells to the young of many later species, together with its low geo- 

 logical position, justifies us in considering it to be the form from which 

 were descended the races which followed ilatthew's Landing time. 



In the same horizon with V. limopsis we find T'. rugatus. The young 

 of the latter show many of the features of the adult T'. limopsis, while 

 tlie old individuals are often slightly senile and cjuite different in ap- 

 pearance from the small specimens. It was undoubtedly derived from 

 V. limopsis, or some closely allied form, and may be considered a short 

 senile offshoot which did not survive the ^latthew's Landing. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



In the Nanafalia the first member of the Volutilithcs petrosiis assem- 

 blage makes its appearance, and is representative of the T^. petrosus 

 main stock. After the Nanafaha the races of V. petrosus are a promi- 

 nent feature of the faimas. Thougli the adults of these races may differ 

 greatly, the young resemble each other closely, and indicate their 

 common derivation from Y. limopsJs. 



In the Gregg's Landing marl, the Gregg's Landing race represents 

 the V. petrosus main stock, though a few of its individuals show slightlj- 

 senile tendencies. In the Bell's Landing marl the Bell's Landing race 

 has separated from the main stock with the evolution of senile features. 

 It is the first member of a senile offshoot which in later time produces 

 the Wood's Blnff and Hatchetigbee Bluff races. These latter are 

 evolved from the Bell's Landing race, not so much by an acceleration 

 as by an exaggeration of the marks of senilitj\ The Hatchetigbee 

 Bluff race is without descendants and the la.st term of this senile series. 

 Its individuals are dwarfed and stunted, reflecting plainly the unfavor- 

 able conditions under which they lived, and which soon caused the 

 extinction of the race. 



While in some localities the members of the Volutilithes petrosus 

 assemblage were following out a line of evolution which resulted in 

 their elimination from the geological record, the main stock was still 

 flourishing in nearby regions. For instance, at Yellow Bluff on the 

 Alabama river we have a representative of the V. petrosus main stock. 

 The Yellow Bluff race is indicative of favorable conditions at that 

 locaUty. 



In the Lower Claiborne the V. petrosus main stock occurs, though it 

 is represented only by a few poorly preserved specimens. The Clai- 

 borne, however, not only gives us the Claiborne race but an offshoot 

 from it, namely, V. sayana. This Claiborne race is an assemblage of 

 rather accelerated and variable forms which probably express the 

 effect of shallow water marine conditions upon the main stock. By 

 an acceleration of ornamental features V. sayana was derived either 

 from the Claiborne race or from some very closely related form. 



Passing now into the Jackson, we find the last member of this phy- 

 logenetic series which we have traced up from the Matthew's Landing 

 horizon. It is the Jackson race of V. petrosus. This form is the residt 

 of the slow and even evolution of the ancestral race which took place 

 in the favorable conditions of a more open sea. Its ontogeny is nor- 

 mal, each stage following its predecessor in regular fashion. Though 

 this form is accelerated, there is little mingling of the senile and spiny 

 characters by unequal acceleration. The senile stage closes a well- 




1906.] NATUHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



developed spiny stage. This race of V. petrosus differs but slightly 

 from the form which we saw in the Nanafalia beds, and demonstrates 

 clearly how little a stock may vary through a long period of time if it 

 is hving under favorable conditions. '- 



The phylogeny of the Alabama and Mississippi species of Volutilithcs 

 may be represented by the table on p. 74. The Yellow Bluff race is 

 provisionally placed in the Bell's Landing horizon. 



Summary. 



From the Matthew's Landing to the Hatchetigbee inclusive the 

 strata belong to the so-called Lignitic formation. They consist of 

 thick deposits of cross-bedded sands and clays, often glauconitic, and 

 of lignites alternating with thin beds of marine fossils.'^ It is evident 

 that these deposits were formed in a great shallow arm of the sea, 

 whose waters were sometimes fresh or blackish and at others salt. 



The marine faunas which from time to time invaded this Lignitic 

 gulf brought with them, at fu-st, species and races of Volutilithes witli 

 normal aspect. These, however, only represent the dwellers on the 

 edge of the respective. Volutilithes commimities, the centres of which 

 were farther out in the open sea. These forms which were subjected 

 to the conditions of the Lignitic eventually followed out a course of 

 evolution which was a direct reflection of their unfavorable environ- 

 ment. The races of Volutilithes petrosus at Bell's Landing, Wood's 

 Bluff, and Hatchetigbee Bluff make such a series, in which the 

 senihty becomes more and more extreme with the course of time." 



Occasionally throughout the later Lignitic, as at Yellow Bluff, we 

 find a race which has migrated from a more favorable environment, 

 and which resembles the primitive races of earlier Lignitic waters, as 

 those of Gregg's Landing and Nanafalia. The grade of phjiogenetic 

 development which the Yellow Bluff assemblage has attained also 



" The author has seen forms purporting to come from the Vicksburg horizon 

 which appear to be poorly preserved examples of the Jackson race of T'. petrosux. 

 He does not, however, feel justified (without further evidence) in carrying tlie 

 range of V. petrosus above the Jackson liorizon. 



" Bull. 43, U. S. G. S., "Tertiary and Cretaceous Strata of the Tuscaloosa, 

 Tombigbee, and Alabama Rivers," Eugene A. Smith and Lawrence C. Johnson. 



" It is to be noted in tliis connection that forms occur in tlie Miocene of Europe 

 which appear to belong to Volutilithes and to possess the shelly overgrowth. 

 The abnormal American races are produced bj- local conditions, that is, b}' those 

 of the Lignitic, and are widely separated not only geographically but geologically 

 from the European specimens. It is therefore higlily improbable that the Eu- 

 ropean forms (if they are Volutilithes at aU) are descended from the .American ones, 

 In the absence of more definite information, we are justified in regarding the 

 phenomenon as one of parallelism. 




74 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



o 

 .a 



IS C3 



» p 



P3 OS 



►J 



en be 



"bfi S 

 hCT3 



? a 



s^ 



o 



U" 




1906.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



indicates that a normal, slow, and even e^■olution has been going on 

 in one locality ; while at the same time rapid, senile evolution has taken 

 place among forms subjected to unfavorable conditions in another 

 region. 



\\Tiere, then, was the centre of this normal phylogeny? We may 

 well look toward the open sea to find this favorable environment, and 

 the deposits which follow the Hatchetigbee beds furnish us with the 

 desired answer. 



With the inauguration of the Lower Claiborne began that movement 

 which finally resulted in the deepening of the sea and the production 

 of the white Imiestone of the Jackson. The brackish water conditions 

 disappear and are replaced by those of a shallow water (but tj'pically 

 marine) environment. The Claiborne race of Vohttilithcs petrosus 

 shows the effect of such conditions upon the main stock. The sinking 

 of the sea-bottom proceeded throughout Claiborne time, and finally 

 the Jackson limestone with its relatively deep water fauna is intro- 

 duced. The Jackson race of V. petrosus represents the result upon the 

 main stock of slow and even evolution in a favorable environment. 



It follows, then, that every stock has some particular set of condi- 

 tions in which it develops normally. Contemporaneously with this 

 normal phylogeny a senile c-\'olution in the same stock may occur at 

 some less favored locality. In the forms we have considered the 

 environment most favorable to a slow and even evolution is an open 

 sea one, in which limy deposits are forming. It is onlj-, then, in a 

 thick limestone deposit that we could expect to find all the phyloge- 

 netic stages of the Volutilitbes prtrosus main stock and other primitive 

 species. In conclusion it is interesting to note that one of the only 

 two existing species of the genus, namely. VolutiUthcs ahi/ssicola 

 Adams and Reeve, '^ is a cancellated form which apparenth- is quite 

 close in its grade of evolutional development to the ancestral T'. limop- 

 sis of remote Eocene time. This recent species is found in relatively 

 deep water off the Cape of Good Hope, and probably is a member of 

 a primitive stock, which in the favorable environment of a deep and 

 open sea has been able to persist long after its nearest relatives have 

 become extinct." 



The writer wishes to express his indebtedness to Prof. Henry A. 

 Pilsbry, of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and to 

 Prof. Amos P. Brown, of the Uni^•ersity of Pennsylvania, for many 



'^ Zoology of the Voyage of the Samarang. 



" See Dall, Trans. Wag. Inst., Vol. Ill, p. 74. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [.March, 



lielpfiil suggestions, and to ]\liss Helen Winchester for care exercised 

 in malving the drawings. In addition tlie wTiter wishes to especially 

 acknowledge the kindness of Mr. Charles W. Johnson, of the Boston 

 Society of Natural History, in giving him much valuable information 

 in regard to the range and distribution of the races and species. 



Explanation of Plate II. 



Fig. 1. — VohttiUthes Umopsis Conrad. Matthew's Landing, Ala. Adult of 



moderate size showing the persistence of the cancellated stage throughout 



the later whorls. Length = 1S.5 mm. 

 Fig. 2. — Vohitililhes rugatus Conrad. Matthew's Landing, Ala. Young indi\id- 



ual shomng the cancellated stage. Witli the exception of the last whorl, 



the sculpture is very much like that of V. Umopsis. Length = 19.5 mm. 

 Fig. 3. — Volutilithes petrosiis Conrad. Bell's Landing Race. Bell's Landing, 



Ala. Young indi\'idual showing the cancellated stage. Length =20 mm. 

 Fig. 4. — Volutilithes peirosus Conrad. Jackson Race. Jackson, Miss. Young 



individual showing the cancellated stage. Length^l9 mm. 

 Fig. 5. — Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. Gregg's Landing Race. Gregg's Landing, 



Ala. Adult indi^-idual showing the general characters of the 1'. petrosus 



main stock. The later whorls show the spiny stage. Length =50 mm. 

 Fig. 6. — Volutilithes petrostis Conrad. YeUow Bluff Race. Yellow Bluff, Ala. 



Adult individual showing the general characters of the V. petrosus main 



stock. This is, however, not as tj-pical an expression of the features of the 



main stock as is seen in fig. 5. The later wliorls show the spiny stage. 



Length = 44 mm. 

 Fig. 7. — ^'olutilithes petrosus Conrad. Jackson Race. Jackson, Miss, .\dult 



indi^^dual showing the general characters of the V. petrosus main stock. 



The later whorls show the spiny stage. This is the culminant tj'pe of the 



main stock. Length =52 mm. 

 Fig. S. — Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. Bell's Landing Race. Bell's Landing, 



Ala. Adult individual showing the slightly developed senile characters. 



Length =52 mm. 

 Fig. 9. — Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. Wood's Bluff Race. Wood's Bluff, .\la. 



Adult individual showing strongly developed senile characters. Length = 



58 mm. 

 Fig. 10. — Volutilithes petrosus Conrad. Hatchetigbee Bluff Race. Hatchetig- 



bee Bluff. Ala. Adult individual showing extreme senility and dwarfed 



size. This is the culminant tj-pe of the senile offshoot shomi in figs. S and 



9. Length = 43 mm. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



SOME COLD-BLOODED VERTEBRATES OF THE FLORIDA KEYS. 



BY HENRY VC. FOWLER. 



During June of 1904 the wTiter, accompanied by Mr. Stewardson 

 Brown, of the Botanical Section of the Academy, was enabled through 

 the generosity of Mr. Clarence B. Moore to visit the Florida Keys. 

 The chief object of the expedition was to explore the islands for land 

 snails of the genus Liguus. Incidentally we were enabled to study the 

 flora and fauna of this most interesting region. We availed ourselves 

 of every opportunity to gather information, but onlj- data which I 

 feel to be absolutely reliable is here included. The vernacular names 

 of the different species, so far as I could judge, are those of the fisher- 

 men and residents. 



Oiu- operations extended from between a point directly south of 

 Cape Sable, or from Grassy Key west to the ilarquesas, covering an 

 area about fifty miles in length. We did not visit the Tortugas, which 

 are the most western of the Keys and more isolated than the Mar- 

 quesas, flaking Key West oiu* headcjuarters, we set out after explor- 

 ing that island for the Marquesas, stopping at Boca Grande Key on 

 our way. The Marquesas bank comprises a number of islands, dis- 

 posed in a more or less circular or atoll-like manner with great shallows 

 all about, though mostly inside. Few places we visited repaid us as 

 well as these islands. On our return we skirted the southern shores 

 of the Keys toward Key West, stopping at Ballast Key. We then left 

 Key West again and travelled along the southern shores of the Keys 

 eastward to Grassy Key, stopping at Boca Chica, Sugar Loaf, Big Pine, 

 No Name, Cudjoe's, Knight, Vaca and Grassy Kej^s. On our return, 

 which was along the northern shores of these islands, we stopped at 

 Vaca, Bahia Honda, Hailer's Rock, Little Pine, Big Pine, Summer- 

 land, Cudjoe's, Sugar Loaf, West Cudjoe's, Riding, Snipe and Jewfish 

 Kej'S. ilost of the Keys are more or less covered with mangroves; 

 others, such as Big and Little Pine, have large tracts of pine forest with 

 an undergrowth of scattered palmettos. The latter grow several feet 

 in height, and in combination with the pines present a beautiful con- 

 trast after the monotony of mangroves. All of the islands are low, 

 rising but a few feet above the sea-level, and most all are furnished 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



witli ratlier broad white sandy beaches. Some places along these 

 beaches are studded with mangro\-es, affording excellent shelter, 

 when overhanging, for manj- fishes. Along a number of the Kej's 

 were flat embankments covered with long grass, and in other places 

 coconut groves, as that on Boca Chica Key. ^lany Keys were covered 

 with more fertile areas in which A'arious tropical plants, shrubs and 

 trees were found in abundance, often studded here and there with 

 cacti, and sometimes presenting an impenetrable barrier. Throughout 

 the Keys we visited the water is comparatively shallow. In some 

 places reefs are formed where the most beautiful of tropical marine 

 animal life abounds in luxiu'iance. Most of these places, we were in- 

 formed, are constantly though gradually shifting, so that new charts 

 are needed from time to time to show the changes in depth and to- 

 pography. Some of the shallows are left entirely dry by the tides, and 

 others are covered with large beds of sea-wrack. In such jilaces many 

 wading-birds find an abundant supply of food. We found a few pools 

 on certain of the larger Keys, such as Big Pine, Summerland and 

 Little Pine. They are of rather brackish-water, though I did not taste 

 of all. 



Hailer's Rock is a small flat or low island of sand-heaped rocks, with 

 a growth here and there of a few low bushes. The southern end is of 

 bare dry rocks running well out to sea and leaving numerous tide- 

 pools. These pools vary in size and depth from some of a few inches 

 in extent to others of several feet. Here such gaudy and tropical 

 fishes as the Cock Eye Pilot, Sheep's Head, Rock Fish, and School- 

 master were found. The Rock Fish, or Gobies and Blennies, are 

 colored much like their surroimdings, and trust in great part to this 

 for concealment. Some are pale and others are dark. They dart 

 swiftly from place to place when disturbed, much after the manner of 

 our own Darters, or else hide in crevices. Though they were active, 

 I secured a nimiber by hand with a little trouble. 



"VMiile off Key West we saw cetaceans, evidently a species of Del- 

 phinns. The Opossum and Raccoon were reported from Key West, 

 and the latter also from Sugar Loaf, Big and Little Pine Kej-s. I saw 

 a Rabbit on Big Pine Key and a Deer on Sugar Loaf. Deer were 

 found formerly on Little Pine Key, but were now believed to be absent. 

 Though I did not see the Wood Rat on Summerland Kej-, I was in- 

 formed that they sometimes climb the trees to feed on fruits, such as 

 the sapadilla. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



FISHES. 

 GINGLYMOSTOMID^. 



1. Ginglymostoma cirratum (Gmelin). Shark. 



\'ery abiuitlant in all warm shallows about the Marquesas. At 

 this season (June) they come in these places to copulate, and I was 

 informed that they do not occur here, or at least were rarely seen, at 

 other times for this piu-pose. I saw a male and female in coitus. On 

 one occasion about four males were seen swimming close about a 

 female, whose whitish belly could be seen quite a distance, as she was 

 back down. She was also evidently awaiting their initiative. I 

 approached in a small boat till almost directly above, when it was 

 possible to prod them with an oar as they swam slowly about and 

 but little agitated. A pair will remain fastened together some little 

 time, and then suddenly part without much commotion. Their loca- 

 tion ma}'' easily be determined in these places by a portion of the dorsal 

 fin, and frequently also a part of the caudal, projecting above the 

 sm-face. The term "cooting," employed by some fishermen for the 

 act of copulation among these sharks, may possibly have been 

 derived from the word courting. 



Examples vary somewhat in color, some appearing pale cinnamon, 

 though they are always distinguishable quite a distance, even when 

 entirely under water. All I observed were large, nearly twelve or 

 fourteen feet in length, and were not at all shy. Occasionally in shal- 

 low water, especially like that along the southern shores of Ballast 

 Key, they were sometimes more or less exposed or with both caudal 

 fins well out of the water when copulating. 



ALOPIID^. 



2. Alopias vulpes (Gmelin). Fish Sliark. 



Reported to be rather nmiierous at times in and about the Keys. 

 They were said to feed almost entirely on fish. 



GALEIDJE. 



{Galens Klein, in Walbaum, Pet. Arted. Gen. Pise, III, 1792, p. 580. Type 

 Squatus galeus Linnaeus = Galeorhinus Blainville, 1816-17.) 



3. Cynais canis (Mitchill). 



A small Shark was seen in the shallow water about Sugar Loaf Key. 



4. Galeocerdo tigrinus Miiller and Heule. 



Reported as sometimes taken during smnmer. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



5. Caroharhinus lamia (Rafinesque). 



Large examples of some species of Carcharhinus, most likely this 

 species, were reported under the name ' ' Man Eater. ' ' I did not see 

 any examples or hear any reports of Scoliodon terrce-novoe (Richard- 

 son), unless it was confounded with the present form. 



CESTRACIONTID^. 



{Cestracion Klein, in Walbaum, Pet. Arted. Gen. Pise., Ill, 1792, p. 580. 

 Type Squaltis zygoena Linnceus = Sphyrna Rafinesque, 1810.) 



6. Cestracion tiburo (Linnseus). Bonnet Head Shark. 



Reported as rather abundant. 



7. Cestracion zygsena (Linnceus;. Hammer Head. Hammer Head Shark. 



The large examples which occur about Bahia Honda Key are said 

 to attain at least fifteen or more feet in length. C. tiburo is said to 

 be small. Both .species were reported as more abundant in summer. 



RHINIDJE. 



(Rhina Klein, in Walljaum, Pet. Arted. Gen. Pise., Ill, 1792, p. 580. Type 

 Squalus squatina Linnaeus = Sguatina Dumeril, 1806.) 



8. Rhina squatina (Linnteus). 



Occasionally taken in summer. 



PRISTID^. 



9. Pristis peotinatus Latham, Saw Fish. 



Reaches a considerable size. Young rather common in the shallows. 



NARCACIONTIDJE. 



{Narcacion Klein, in Walbaum, ^et. Arted. Gen. Pise., Ill, 1792, p. 580. 

 Type Raja torpedo Linnseus = Narcobatus Blainville, 1816.) 



10. Tetronaroe ocoidentalis (Storer). Electric Fish. 



Foimd occasionally associated with species of Dasybaius. 



DASYBATIDiE. 



{Dasyhatus Klein, in Walbaum, Pet. Arted. Gen. Pise., Ill, 1792, p. 581. 

 Type Raja paslinaca Linnaeus = Dasyatis Rafinesque.) 



11. Dasybatus hastatus (Do Kay). Sting Ray. 



Color in life pale hair-brown above, margin of disk paler or more 

 or less narrowly whitish, and submarginally a slightly darker shade 

 than general color of body. Tail blackish-brown, spine dark. Lower 

 surface of body white. Lis brown. 



This species was seen several times about the shallows of the ilar- 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



quesas. When swimming they appear to glide over the sand, from 

 which they are distinguished with difficult}- when quiet. They 

 usually swim rapidly away upon the approach of a small boat, though 

 we captm-ed a single example with the harpoon. They were found in 

 pairs, and seldom attained more than a couple of feet in width 

 of disk. 



PS ALLISOSTOMID^ . 



(Psallisostcnnus Klein, in Walbaum, Pet. Arted. Gen. Pise, III, 1792, p. 



.'iSl. Tj-pe Esox osseiis Linnceus.) 



12. Fsallisostomns osseas (Linnreus). Common Gar. 



Reported from about the Keys south of Cape Sable, but not seen by 

 me. 



ELOPID^. 



13. Tarpon atlanticus (Valenciennes). Tarpon. 



This fish is reported to be used for food by the negroes at times. It 

 is the cvistom of anglers to throw their bodies on the beach or shore, 

 as it is said they attract the sharks if allowed to stay in the water, 

 thus interfering with the fishing. The j'oung were said to be not 

 quite so common, though it Ls possible that they may have been over- 

 looked . 



14. Elops saums Linnaeus. Ten Pounder. 



Said to be abundant at times. 



ALBITLID^. 



15. Albula vulpes (Linnfeus". Bone Fish. 



Mf).stly abundant. 



DUSSUMIERIID^. 



16. Jenkinsia stolifera (.lordan and Gilbert). Fig. 1. 



Head 3f ; depth 5; D. iii, 8; A. i, 14; P. ii, 11; V. i, 6; scales 30? 

 (according to pockets) in a lateral series to base of caudal, and about 4 

 more on latter; about 8? series of scales transversely between origin of 

 dorsal obliquely back behind origin of ventral ; ^-idth of head about 

 2 in its length, and depth of head a trifle less; length of depressed 

 dorsal 1^; base of anal 2; length of caudal (damaged) IJ; pectoral If; 

 ventral 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 3f ; mandible 2|-; snout 3+; 

 orbit 3 ; interorbital space 4; maxillary 2^. 



Body long, compressed, profiles similar and not trenchant. Great- 

 est depth at origin of dorsal. Caudal peduncle compressed, and its 

 length about equal to its depth. 

 6 




82 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



Head large, deep, compressed, upper profile curved a little from 

 tip of upper jaw and then straight after middle of orbit, and lower 

 profile forming a broad angle below front of orbit. Snout short and 

 rounded. Eye large, rounded, almost impinging on upper profile and 

 anterior. Adipose eyelid covering greater part of orbit. Mouth ter- 

 minal and a little siiperior, small, and mandible projecting a little in 

 front. Maxillary well inclined, distally broadly expanded till about 

 equal to f of pupil, and its posterior edge not quite reaching opposite 

 same. Teeth in jaws minute, and if present on roof of mouth and 

 tongue very small or indistinct. Tongue small, a little elongate, and 

 with free rounded tip. Each ramus of mandible well elevated inside 

 mouth. Interorbital space rather narrow and flat. Nostrils close 

 together, and about midway in length of snout. Preorbital rather 



Fig. 1. Jenkinsia stolijera (Jordan and Gilbert). 



narrow and together with infraorbital, preopercle and opercle fm-nished 

 with rather large arborescent flutings, those on latter with more or 

 less adipose substance above. Opercle with a gash in upper posterior 

 margin. Articular surface or mandible below its articulation with a 

 broad obtuse spine or denticle. 



Gill-opening carried forward till about opposite front margin of 

 orbit. Rakers fine, slender, longer than filaments. Filaments and 

 pseudobranchiiE about equally well developed. Isthmus trenchant 

 in front, and flattened rather broadly posteriorly. 



Scales cycloid, caducous or but few remaining on alcoholic examples 

 and those mostly comprising dorsal and anal sheaths, and on base of 

 caudal. A patch of adipose tissue on shoulder behind opercle above. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



83 



Origin of dorsal nearly midway between tip of snout and base of 

 caudal and first developed ray longest. Anal low, inserted a little 

 behind tip of depressed dorsal or a little nearer origin of ventral than 

 base of caudal. Caudal forked and lobes pointed. Pectoral low, 

 inner rays of each fin approximating and reaching about half way to 

 ventral. Ventral inserted a little beliind origin of dorsal or a httle 

 nearer base of caudal than tip of snout and reacliing about f of dis- 

 tance to anal. Vent close in front of origin of anal. 



Color in alcohol faded pale brownish, a little darker on back, and 

 lower surface paler. Head more or less silver}-, top brownish. Fins 

 all pale or whitish, dorsal and caudal a little grayish. Median line 

 of back with a dusky streak. Along course of what would be lateral 

 line posteriorly a brownish streak. Iris silvery, a little slaty above. 



Length If inches. 



Hailer's Rock. Altogether 17 examples were taken associated vdth 

 the large schools of Anchovies seen about the tide pools. In life they 

 are colored transparent or translucent greenish similar to the Ancho- 

 vies. One example contained a crustacean parasite within the giU- 

 opening, the long spiral egg-cases well protruding. 



CLUPEID^. 

 17. Harengula sardina (Poey). Fig. 2. 



Fig. 



Harengula sardina (Poey). 



Two small examples taken at Hailer's Rock. 



8- Harengula liumeralis (Valenciennes). Shiner. Fig. 3. 



Color in life bright or glistening silvery-white on sides and lower 

 surface of body. Back bluish-green. Snout brownish. Eye silvery, 




84 



PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 

 Dorsal and caudal gray-l)rown, 



upper margin brownish blue-green, 

 other fins transparent whitish. 



In the shallows of the ilarquesas 30 examples were seined, asso- 

 ciated with the Anchovies and other small fishes. In a tide-pool on 



Fig. 3. Harengula humeraUs (Valenciennes). 



Hailer's Rock 2 were also taken. After being in alcohol some time 

 most of the examples have the peritoneum showing plainly through 



the body-wall. 



19. Clupanodon oglina (Linnit-us).' Thread Herring. 



Occasional. No examples taken. 



ENGRAULIDID^, 



20. Anohovia brownii (Gmelin). Sardine. 



Color in life, above clear transparent hyahne-greenish washed with 



' Drs. Jordan and Gilbert, in Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., V, 1882 (1883), p. 574, 

 have restricted Lacepdde's genus Cliijxinodon to jussieui. Later Drs. Jordan 

 and Evermann, in Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, I, 1896, p. 422, apparently con- 

 sider pilchardus as typical. These precepts do not fall within tlie rule of elimina- 

 tion as the last name for which a generic name is proposed, so far as I can find, 

 is thrissa. For this Dr. Gill proposed pisthonema . At any rate Sardinia cannot 

 be so considered as it is a synonym of Thrissa Rafinesque. Lacepede's species 

 tkrissn may be considered restricted to the American Thread Herring, as the 

 Chinese fish included under Osbeck's reference is one of the Dorosomatida:. Opis- 

 thonema Gill is thus to be superseded by Clupanodon Lacepede The True Sar- 

 dines, formerly placed under the latter name, will stand as species of Thrissa 

 Rafinesque, with Clupea pilchardus Linnwus as tlie type. Messrs. Jordan and 

 Seal have pertinent remarks in Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVIII, 190.5 p. 771. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



85 



bright silvery, and sides and lower regions of the brightest silvery. 

 Fins pale and more or less transparent. Iris silvery. 



Reaches a length of 3 inches. Found throughout the Keys, the 

 above notes from examples from Mailer's Rock. Very large schools 

 were seen both in this locality and about the :\Iarquesas. They swim 

 in large shoals associated with the other small fishes, haimting the shal- 

 lower as well as the deeper places along shore. They were unusually 

 numerous about the broken rocky shores, where free ingress and egress 

 could be had with the outer waters. Here the schools were seen more 

 or less quiescent and with their heads all directed one way, so that 

 upon any distm-bance the whole mass would move more or less as if 

 by one impulse. They appear mostly transparent in the water. I 

 found them occasionally in the sm-f, where they were probably more 

 abundant than I was able to determine. When taken from the water 

 they soon die. I never observed them in any tide-pools which were 

 cut off from the sea during low tide. 

 21. Anohovia ohoerostoma oayorum subsp. nov. Fit;. 4. 



Head 3f ; depth .5; D. iii, 9; A. iii, 25; P. i, 12; V. i, 6; scales 36 

 (squamation injured) in a lateral series to base of caudal with several 



Anchovia choerostoma cayorum Fowler. 



more on latter; about 8 series of transverse scales from above origin of 

 anal; width of head 2t in its length; depth of head H; snout 5; eye 

 3i; interorbital space 3§; maxillaiy 1^; length of depressed dorsal If; 

 caudal 1^; pectoral 1*; ventral 2|; base of anal 3^ in head and trunk. 

 Body strongly compressed, elongate in form, rather slender, and 

 lower profile a little more convex than upper, edges not trenchant 

 though rounded, and greatest depth about origin of dorsal. Caudal 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maich, 



peduncle strongly compressed, rather deep, and least depth about 

 I its length. 



Head strongly compressed, rather deep, and profiles more or less 

 similarly convex. Snout rather blunt, rounded, convex, and upper 

 profile pronouncedly convex. Eye circular, rather large and well 

 anterior. Adipose tissue developed. Mouth a little inclined and gape 

 extending nearly f length of head. Maxillary slender, long, and 

 furnished with a single series of fine or minute teeth to its distal ex- 

 tremity which reaches almost to gill-opening in front of origin of 

 pectoral. A similar series, though very minute, along margin of 

 mandible. Vomerine teeth a little larger than those on palatines 

 which are very small and uniserial. Also a still smaller series on each 

 pterygoid. Symphysis of mandible reaching about ojjposite posterior 

 nostril. Tongue small, little free, rounded, reaching forward till a 

 little in front of anterior orbital rim and with a free asperous patch 

 above. Nostrils close together, superior and a little nearer front rim 

 of orbit than tip of snout. Interorbital space with a slightly elevated 

 median ridge so that it is a little convex. Opercle and top of head 

 posteriorly with varied shallow flutings. Cheek with shallow perfora- 

 tions, and some above eye posteriorly. 



Gill-opening extending forward till opposite front rim of pupil. 

 Rakers about 14-1-20?, slender, long, and longest much longer than 

 filaments. Pseudobranchiae smaller than filaments. Isthmus rather 

 broadly rounded though compressed above. Shoulder-girdle notched 

 once on each side below for reception of interopercle, and above behind 

 opercle an adipose-like tract. 



Scales cycloid, large, and caducous. Dorsal and anal with scaly 

 basal sheaths. Scales on base of caudal rather small. Pointed 

 axillary flap at base of pectoral f length of fin and inner raj's of each 

 fin approximated. A similar ventral flap. 



Origin of dorsal nearer base of caudal than tip of snout and first 

 branched ray longest. Anal inserted about opposite first foiu'th in 

 length of depressed dorsal or much nearer origin of pectoral than base 

 of caudal, and its anterior rays elevated. Caudal forked and lobes 

 pointed. Pectoral low and reaching origin of ventral. Tip of de- 

 pressed ventral reaching at least opposite origin of dorsal. Vent 

 close in front of anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish, paler or whitish below. Back with 

 edge of each scale sprinkled with a series of brownish dots. A double 

 series of brownish dots down middle of back. Top of head, snout, and 

 opercle brownish with darker brownish dots. Upper posterior portion 




1906.] NATUHAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



of liead with gill-opening showing through dark. Head other«"ise 

 bright silver}-. Iris silver}'. A broad brownish band overlaid with 

 silvery and nearly as wide as pupil extends from above giU-opening 

 to middle of ba.se of caudal. It Is broader in middle than at either end. 

 A series of brownish spots along base of anal. Dorsal and caudal 

 pale grayish marked with numerous pale brownish dots, other fins 

 whitish. 



Color in life with body more or less silvered and back above with a 

 translucent appearance. 



Length 2J inches. 



Tj-pe Xo. .30.613, A. N. S. P. HaUer's Rock, Florida Kej's. June, 

 1904. H. W. Fowler. Also Nos. 30,614 to 30,620, A. N. S. P., 

 paratypes with same data. 



Foimd only at the above localit}' in company with ^4. hrownii. 

 Only these few were secured among the multitudes of the latter. 

 From .4. charostoma (Goode), with which this form may prove iden- 

 tical, it appears at present to differ a little, upon comparison with 

 Porto Rican material, in tTie more elongate form, larger eye and head, 

 and more blunt or roimded snout. Young examples have a smaller 

 eye, nearly 4 in head. 



{Cayo, in Spanish meaning a ridge of small rocks or islands in the 

 sea, like those off southern Florida.) 



SYNODONTID^. 

 22- Synodus foetens (Linnaeus). Lizard Fish. 



Color in life clear pale browmlsh above with about 10 wampum-like 

 blotches of darker brown. In some examples this produces a pepper 

 and salt appearance. A slightly dark double series of blackish dots 

 across each blotch on back. On side just below back a series of zig- 

 zag W-shaped markings also of same darker color. Same color ac- 

 cents end of each blotch in form of a trifle darker speck. A somewhat 

 diamond-like blotch or ring between each median lateral marking and 

 somewhat connected. Another blotch alternately below each of 

 these, and still lower more paler tints of diffuse markings. A deep 

 brown blotch at base of tail and another of pale brown at base of each 

 lobe. Head brownish above, and variegated with deeper spots and 

 more or less olivaceous-golden on sides above. Jaws and mandible 

 variegated with olivaceous-brown. Iris golden-olive, in some lights 

 pure golden, pupil dark gi-een. Region of isthmus dull citron. Tints 

 of colors on sides all more or less golden. Dorsal and caudal variegated 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



with golden-brown tints, otherwise pale graj-ish. Other fins dull 

 whitish. Length about 3 inches. 



A number of small examples were taken in the sandy shallows of 

 the Marquesas. 



MURiENID^. 



23. Gymnothorax funebris vRanzani). Moray. 



Large examples were seen about the reefs off Snipe KeJ^ lurking in 

 the crevices and holes of the coral rocks. They were deep olive in 

 color. 



SILURID^. 



24. Galeichthys felis (Linna;us). Cat Fish. Salt Water Cat. 



Very abundant and a very foul feeder, eating any refuse or filth 



throwm overboard. They were so ravenous that it was possible to 



catch them on any kind of bait even on a bent pin. At times great 



quantities were said to have been taken in seines, in which cases the 



fishermen would cut the leads and floats, leaving the whole mass to 



extricate themselves as best they may. Their spines are very much 



dreaded by the fishermen, who claim they are able to produce 



dangerous and ugly wounds. Jlost all the examples I observed were 



about Big Pine Key. 



• 



PCECILIID.^. 



25. Fundulus similis (Baird and Glrard). Sac-i-Lait. 



Color in life with a whitish lateral band from opercle above to base 

 of caudal interrupting slatj- vertical bars which were 9 in number. 

 Lower surface of body white. Dorsal, anal and caudal graj'Lsh, former 

 with a well-defined pale base. An olive shade on opercle. Iris silvery, 

 a little brownish above and below, and latter also with a little pale 

 orange. Jaws pale. Length 3| inches. 



Only foiu- examples obtained in the shallow pools on Boca Chica 

 Key. The larger ones have as many as sixteen dark vertical bars. 

 Found associated with this species were all of the following Pceciliida 



26. Cyprinodon variegatus riverendi (Poey). 



Three examples from the ilarquesas and Boca Chica Key. 



27. Cyprinodon mydrus Goode and Bean. Puss Gut. Fig. 5 (male). 



Color in life nearly milky-white, upper surface or back above slightlj'- 

 brownish. Lower surface or body milky-white and fins very pale 

 brownish. After death some examples turned pale olive on back and 

 top of head, and on dorsal and caudal. These fins, back and side 




1906.] 



NATUHAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



89 



speckled with golden-brown or coppery in the males. Lines of a 

 similar shade on side of head, one across chin, one on preorbital, 

 another from corner of mouth to lower rim of eye, and two others 

 below and parallel up over opercle. Iris golden-brownish. Side of 

 body with indistinct traces of several pale slaty vertical streaks. 

 Lower fins very pale brownish-golden. Ventral and anal with a more 

 or less regular series of golden spots, less distinct on latter. Females 



Fig. 5. Cyjjrinodon mydrus Goode and Bean. 



were paler and had no spots on dorsal and caudal, and those on bodj^ 

 more yellowish. In spirits young examples show large blotches of 

 grayish on side and lack brilliant colors of the adults noted above. 

 They were more or less milky-white in life. 



This species is very abundant in pools and shallows of the Keys. 

 They were met with in great numbers all about the Marquesas, and in 

 the pools on Boca Chica Key. Young were abundant in the tide- 

 pools on West Cudjoe's Key. Great numbers were also found about 

 Big Pine Key. 



Cyprinodon carpio Giinther - may be identical, but the indefinite 

 locality "America" admits a doubt. The figure given by Drs. Jordan 



' Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., VI, 1866, p. 306. 




90 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



and Evermann ^ differs in that there are five rows of scales on the 

 cheelc. 



28. Mollienisia latipinna I-c Sueur. Mud Fish. 



Color in life brown. Side of head with graj' and same color on 

 costal region. Iris brown. Lower surface of body white. Dorsal 

 and caudal with grayish-brown spots and other markings of brown, 

 blackish-brown and dull amber-color. Some examples with caudal 

 dull amber in middle basallj' and a lower series of longitudinal lines 

 of dots of pale amber. \'entral and anal white. 



This species was foimd to be very abundant in the pools on Boca 

 Chica Key, associated with other small fishes. Many are males with 

 the dorsal fin enlarged and the edge of the caudal blackisli. 



MASTACCEMBELID^. 



29. Tylosurus notatus (Poey). Gar. Fig. 6. 



Color in life clear hyaline-green overshot with silvery. Greenish 

 about edge of opercle. Iris silvery. A narrow greenish line from 

 origin of pectoral above to base of caudal. "\^ertical fins pale greenish- 

 brown, tinted slightly with rudd}'. 



Boca Grande, Big Pine and Boca Chica Ke3-s, also Hailer's Rock 

 and the ilarquesas. 



Fig. 6 Tylosiirus notatus (Poey). 



Found in small pools on some of the Keys. They usually associate 

 in small schools in the shallows or near the shore. "Ulien in the water 

 their bodies have a transparent appearance and in some lights are 

 difficult to distinguish. They are also fond of lurking about over- 

 hanging mangroves. 



'Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, IV, 1900, PI. 112, fig. 297. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



HEMIRAMPHID^.* 

 30- Chriodorus atherinoides Goode and Bean. Hard Head. 



Color in life bright silvery. A narrow bright silvery-white line 

 from gill-opening to base of caudal. Upper surface of body and back 

 pale translucent brownish, each scale with a small patch of dark dots 

 forming longitudinal series and about three above lateral line. Down 

 middle of back three narrow lines of same color, median one pale or 

 less distinct than others, and all close together. Dorsal and caudal 

 pale grayish-brown and other fins translucent whitish. Iris silvery- 

 white. Length 4i inches. Alcoholic examples show lateral silvery 

 band slaty. 



Found associated with Athcrina laticeps in the sandy shallows of 

 the Marquesas and about Hailer's Rock. 



31. Hemiramphus brasiliensis (Liniutus). Bala6. 



Reported as frecjucntly seen. 



ATHERINID^. 



32. Atherina laticeps Poey. Silver Sides. 



Very abundant. Large schools were seen about the Marquesas, 

 Boca Chica and Snipe Keys. 



MUGILIDJE. 



33. Mugil curema Valeneiennes. Mullet. 



Abiuidant in the shallows near the shore where they associate in 

 large schools. Wlien disturbed they rush away, causing a loud noise 

 in the water, ilany were taken in cast-nets by fishermen, as many 

 as a dozen at one time. They average several pounds each, and I 

 found their flesh excellent eating. All examined appeared to be this 

 species. They were most abundant in the Marquesas shallows. 



34. Mugil trichodon Poey. Fig. 7. 



Head 3 J5 ; depth 3i; D. IV-I, 8; A. Ill, S; scales about 36 to base 

 of caudal in a lateral series; about 12 series of scales between origin 

 of spinous dorsal and middle of belly; 19 scales before spinous dorsal; 

 snout 3 J in head; eye 4; interorbital space 2^; pectoral If; ventral 1|. 

 Teeth large, conspicuous, uniserial, ciliform, and a little larger in upper 

 jaw. Pectoral not ciuite reaching opposite origin of spinous dorsal. 



Color in life with back bluish-slaty. Side and lower surface silvery- 

 white. Base and axil of pectoral dark slaty. Dorsal, caudal and 



' A number of Flying Fish, Exocoelidcc, were seen off Big Pine Key. They 

 were all small. 




92 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



anal pale brownish. Side of head with slight golden reflections. f Iris 

 brownish, a silver margin close to pupil. 



Length of largest example 2i inches, and though only three were 

 taken with other small fishes, many others were seen. They frequent 

 the shallows like M. curema, but so far as I could observe never asso- 

 ciate. Marquesas Keys. 





Fig. 7. Mui/il trichodon Poey. 



SPHYR^NID^. 

 38. Sphyrsena barracuda (Walbaum). Barracuda. 



Color in life more or less silvery. Above pale brownish with a1)out 

 six pairs of deep olivaceous double saddles meeting as many ]iairs 

 of rounded blotches on side of body just above or over lateral line. 

 A similar colored bar from end of snout to eye continued behind and 

 across operele. Iris pale olivaceous, slightly orange around pujiil. 

 Dorsals and caudal slightly grayish or a trifle dusky marginally, other 

 fins pale whitish. These were all young examples. In the smallest, 

 which are a little over an inch long, saddles of back are separated 

 from lateral blotches by a pale or translucent brownish area. Doi-sal 

 and caudal but little darker than other fins. A brownish-olive spot 

 at base of caudal in all stages of young. 



Many examples obtained at the Marquesas and Boca Chica Key, 

 largest about 3^ inches. An adult, several feet long, was harpooned 

 off Channel Key, and a number of large examples were noted off Bahia 

 Honda Key. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 93 



SYNQNATHID^.5 

 36. Syngnathns mackayi (Swain and Meek). Pipe Fisli. Fig. S. 



Color in alcohol brownish marked with small whitish dots or spots, 

 each ring with a pale or whitish blotch on each keel, usually small and 

 on side at intervals of four rings extending down in form of narrow 

 bars. Back grayish with jiale brown ^■ermiculations medianlj-. On 



Fig. S. Syngnathus mackayi (Swain and Meek). 



lower suface of tail small white spots producing a more or less con- 

 fluent appearance. Head brownish, mottled grajosh above, and snout 

 and under siuface with more or less whitish spots. Dorsal pale brown- 

 ish-white mottled with pale brown. Caudal similar, only blotched and 

 darker. Pectoral pale transparent bro\\Tiish-white. Iris pale slaty. 



Color in life resembling the following species. Back whitish, finely 

 vermicidated or specked with lavender, brownish and olivaceous. 

 Lower surface a little more green than sides which are marked with 

 bluish-green. Snout slightly brownish. Iris pearl-colored with 

 brownish. Length 6j inches. 



JIarquesas and Big Pine Key. This species is subject to color 

 variation, some examples inclining more to green and others to brown 

 than the one noted above. 



37. Syngnathus elncens Poey. Pipe Fish. Fig. 9. 



Color in alcohol brownish, each ring with a blotch of whitish pos- 

 teriorly on each keel, those on sides of about every fifth ring producing 

 about a dozen vertical lateral bands. WTiitish blotches on lower sur- 

 face of caudal becoming more or less confluent posteriorly. Head 

 brownish, snout with a few white spots and under surface with a 

 number of whitish blotches. Dorsal, caudal and pectoral whitish, 

 former fins ^ith brownish specks. Iris duU slaty. 



Color in life vAXh back whitish finely specked or dotted with lavender, 

 brownish and olive medianly. Lower surface more clearly green than 



' I follow Profs. Jordan and Snyder in retaining Syngnathns for the species 

 formerly called Siphostoma . Of the four species available by elimination, viz., 

 typhle, acus, pelagicus and ophidian, the second {aciis) remains and therefore 

 must be regarded as the tj'pe. It is congeneric with Siphostoma Rafinesque. 

 For typle Rafinesque also proposed Typle, and for ophidion, Nerophis. The 

 latter name must therefore !;e used for the Ocean Pipe Fishes. 




94 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



sides and each ring marked by a whitish or Hght ^•ertical line. Some 

 examples are darker, others have more white or brown, and still others 

 are marked below with very pronounced white spots below, with gen- 

 eral color of body pale greenish-brown and tail paler. Fins trans- 

 parent, dorsal and caudal marked with brownish. Iris pearl-colored 

 with brownish spots. Length 4^ inches. 



Fig. 9. Syngnathus elucens Poey. 



A number of examples from the Marquesas, taken with many small 

 fishes found in the sea-weed and marine vegetation of the shallows. 

 One also from Big Pine Key. 



38. Syngnathus louisianse Oiinther. Pipe Fish. Fig. 10. 



Color in alcohol rather pale lirown, upper side of back dark brown 

 and middle of back much jialer. Several series of brown wa\-v longi- 

 tudinal lines more or less irregular, but parallel, on middle of back 

 and caudal above. Along side, just below each keel, a short brown 

 horizontal line on each ring. In dark color of upper half of side several 

 others appear on some rings. On lower half of side brown lines are 

 sometunes more or less convex, and on caudal thej' assiune various 

 vermiculate patterns. Lower or under surface of both head and 

 bodj' dull or pale brownish-white without markings. Head brown- 

 ish, pale above, and on side of snout a dark brownish streak through 

 eye and liack across opercle above, giving rise on side of body to hori- 



Fig. 10. Syngnathus louisianee Giinther. 



zontal dark line on each scute just below uppermost keel. Dorsal, 

 caudal and pectoral pale brownish-white, caudal with some darker or 

 brownish markings. Iris pale slat}', except brownish streak, and 

 grayish below. 



Color in life similar. Back graj'ish-white above or medianly with 

 brown lines. Upper side olivaceous-brown. Lower surface pale 

 whitish, lines on lower side brownish, and tmder surface of abdomen 




1906.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



pale greenish. Dorsal whitish with very pale lines, other fins more or 

 less transparent. Iris shell-color with a brown horizontal cross-bar. 

 Length lOf inches. 



The Marquesas and Big Pine Key. This is the largest and strong- 

 est species met with. It was found associated with the others in the 

 sea-weed. It varies in color when seen in life. One example now 

 in alcohol is dark blackish-brown on upper half of side. A young 

 example taken later at Hailer's Rock has about sixteen dark annu- 

 lations. 



39. Hippocampus punctulatus Guichenot. Sea Horse. 



Color in life deep dull olivaceous, tubercles or joints pale at bases 

 and ruddy at tips. Body evenrTwhere more or less variegated with 

 narrow whitish vermiculating lines, and those about eye radiating 

 from pupil, which is blackish. Pectoral and dorsal pale grayish^ 

 latter finely spotted at base with small dusky or olive specks. 



Sea-weed of the ^Marquesas. 



40. Hippocampus zosteree Jordan and Gilbert. Sea Horse. 



One living example was pale brownish-white, side speckled with 

 pale yellowish. A submarginal dorsal fine of blackish. JIarginal 

 portion of beUy dusky-olive. Rings white. Pupil blackish. 



Another was a little more brownish. Dorsal margined with pale 

 orange, and a submarginal black band. Brown lines radiating from 

 eye and on side of head slightly variegated with pale olive. 



Another was a little more highly colored and more of a golden hue. 

 Rings at intervals more grayish-white. Coronet with a dusky fila- 

 ment. 



One had a whitish snout. General color more brownish. Brownish 

 lines, edged with white, radiate from eye. Tubercles on trunk and 

 caudal rings at intervals more whitish. 



An example was similar to pale brownish-white one, but with minute 

 specks. A pale brownish line from eye to end of snout. Wliitish 

 caudal rings at intervals, and like most of preceding with a more or 

 less evident submarginal dusky line on dorsal, fins otherwise plain and 

 pale-colored. 



One with pronounced tubercles all more or less pure white, inter- 

 spaces on rings pale olive, those on ventral surface darker, and all 

 more or less variegated with whitish dots. Wliitish lines radiate from 

 eye. Dorsal with a submarginal brownish band, fins otherwise pale 

 whitish. Rings on caudal white and pronounced at intervals. Brown 

 band from eye to tip of snout crossed by'several whitish fasciae. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Another less tuberculate, more brownish, and variegated with 

 white and pale brown. 



Darker examples were almost blackish, without vermiculating lines. 

 Side somewhat brownish. Snout whitish. Dorsal and caudal plain- 

 colored. Other examples were more variable. 



Many others were noted, some olivaceous, brownish, coral-white, 

 or almost entirely white, and others pale lavender. 



From the above notes it is easily seen that this species is subject to 

 great color variation in life. Some examples are much more brilliant 

 than others. There is also variation in the tubercles. All my ex- 

 amples collected in the sea-weed (Zostcra) of the Marquesas shallows. 



SCOMBRID^. 



41. Soomberomorus oavalla (CuWer). King Fish. 



Abundant. 



TRICHIURID-ffl. 



42. Trichiurns lepturus Linnieus. 

 Sometimes taken. 



ISTIOPHORID^. 



43. Istiophorns nigricans (Lac^piSde). Sail Fish. 



Almost every season a large example is reported from these Keys. 



CARANGID.^. 



44. Traohinotus faloatns (Linnaus). Pampano. 



Color of young in life, dusky-lavender. A diffuse vertical patch of 

 brownish dots on side from middle of dorsal to anal. Dorsal and anal 

 more or less sprinkled blackish, former otherwise with whitish and 

 latter with pale orange adjoining blackish of anal, ilargin of anal 

 and entire caudal white. Caudal peduncle white. Spinous anal red, 

 spotted with black. Breast rosy, with brownish specks. Top of 

 head brown. Jaws and lower surface of head whitish. Cheek specked 

 with brown. Iris red, with brownish margin. One l^s inches long, 

 from the Marquesas. 



SBRRANID^. 



45. Petrometopon cruentatus (LacepMe). Red Hind. 



No examples were seen, but it is reported from the Marquesas and 

 other places. 



46. Epinephelus striatus (Bloch). Nassau Grouper. 



Marquesas Islands. Seen* in the fish-pots. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



47. Epiueplielu3 maculosus iViileuciennes). 



Reported. 



48. Epinephelus drummond-hayi Goode and Bean. Speckled Hind. 



Reported from about the Marquesas. 



49. Epinephelus morio (.Valenciennes). Red Grouper. 



Color ill life olivaceou.s-bro\vn, braiichiostegal region and cavities 

 of jaws salmon-color. A brown streak opposite upper margin of 

 maxillary in preorbital depression. Inside of pharynx vermilion, and 

 inside of mouth fieshy-pink. Fins, except pectoral, dusky or l3lackish, 

 especially submarginally. Narrow margias of rayed vertical fins 

 whitish. Pectoral golden-brown, most noticeable marginally. Base 

 of ventral pale whitish. Trunk marked with pale diffuse or indistinct 

 scattered pale spots. A few dots about size of pin-head on preorbital. 

 A salmon-pink line on base of anal. Iris golden or brassy-brown. 

 Two examples from Bahia Honda Key. 



About the Marquesas I saw a number of these fishes in fish-pots 

 and in live-boxes. At Snipe Key they were frequently seen about 

 the reefs. 



50- Fromicrops guttatus (Limiieus). Jew Fish. 



One taken in a pool on Boca Chica Key, and a large one off West 

 Cudjoe's Key. They were reported as not at all uncommon about the 

 other Ke3-s. Several were also seen in the reef near Snipe Key. 



LUTIANID^. 

 51. Lutianns griseus (Linnaeus). Mangrove Snapper. 



^larquesas and Boca Grande Key. Found about the roots and 

 usually under overhanging mangroves, from which places they dart 

 or swim quickly out to the open water when disturbed. They asso- 

 ciate with the other snappers, and in some places are ver}' abundant. 

 Some attain quite a large size. 



62. Lutianus apodus (Walbaum). Schoolmaster. 



A very young example in alcohol which I take to be this species has 

 the bedy dark brownish with about six pairs of ilark transverse bands, 

 the paler spaces between each much narrower alternately. "\'ertical 

 fins more or less pale or whitish, sjiinous portions blackish basally. 

 Pectoral and ventral dusky. A brownish streak from tip of snout to 

 eye and then continued posteriorly along upper side of head to gill- 

 opening above. Iris slaty. Eye about three in head. Preopercle 

 with a short spine at lower posterior corner. Length one inch. Mar- 

 quesas Islands. 

 7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Other examples were found at Big Pine Kej'. 



53. Lutianus aya (Bloch). Red Suapper. 



Reported from the Marquesas, but no examples taken. 



54. Lutianus synagris (Linnaeus). 



Marquesas Islands. 



55. Ocyurus ohrysurus (Bloch). Yellow Tail. 



Color in life purplish-brown above, side rosy-piu-plish, becoming 

 more purplish below. Jaws rosy. Iris brassy-white, and a red bar 

 behind pupil. A gilt-green streak from tip of snout to caudal, broaden- 

 ing behind and including upper half of caudal peduncle and finally 

 including all of tail. Edge of tail narrowly dull red-orange. A num- 

 ber of large gilt-green blotches above lateral streak. Narrow pale 

 longitudinal gilt lines, lower ones very pale, below lateral Ijand. 

 Dorsal gOt-green. ^Margin of soft dorsal and base of spinous fin dull 

 diffuse plumbeous. Anal pale milky, medianly pale greenish-yellow. 

 Pectoral dUute pinkish. 'S^entral milky, first ray dull greenish-yellow. 

 Lower surface of body white. Inside of mouth and gUl-opening white. 

 Length S inches. Hailer's Rock. 



One of the most abundant food-fishes, large numbers being in the 

 markets of Key West cUuing all of our visit. It has been reported 

 from aU the Keys by fishermen. ]\Iost of our examples were taken in 

 the deeper channels, like some off Bahia Honda Key. 



H^MULID^. 



56. Hsemulon sciurus (Shaw). Grunt. Yellow Grunt. Fig. 11 (young). 



Color in life skj'-blue above, inclining or fading to plumbeous below. 

 Lines on snout and upper back in front more or less violaceous. Inside 

 of mouth bright scarlet. Iris silver3^ Dorsal plumbeous gray-brown, 

 rayed fin and caudal with slightly more plumbeous and latter becoming 

 pale brownish marginally. ^Margins of dorsal duU amber, also same 

 shade at base of spinous fui and about seven dull amber blotches 

 basaUy on radii of second dorsal. Pectoral brownish-amber. Ven- 

 tral and anal golden-amber, and streaks on side same. Axil of 

 pectoral pale. 



The figm-e represents a j'oung example from the JIarquesas. 



Jew Fish and Bahia Honda Keys, and fomid very abundant through- 

 out our trip. 



57. Haemulon plumieri (Lac^pMe). Grunt. Boar Grunt. 



Color in life of young, all olivaceous above, more or less golden or 

 gilded, especially laterally. Head vdth bright blue lines, on trunk 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



99 



immediately becoming plumbeous and fading. Fins all more or less 

 pale olive-brown, margin of spinous dorsal somewhat pinkish. Base 

 of caudal with a blackish spot. Inside of lower jaw pale orange. 



Fig. 11. HcEinulon sciurus (Shaw). 



Iris silver}' tinted with pale orange above. Length 2f inches. An- 

 other was similar except gilt bands were a little broader, upper smiace 

 of bod}' a little more olivaceous, ventral and anal more golden, and 

 mandible white. 



Very abundant about the Marquesas where many were seined. 



58. Bathystoma rimator (Jordan and Swain). Young- Grunt. 



Grassy Key, HaUer's Rock and the Marquesas. Very abundant in 

 these localities, also about the reefs near Snipe Key, where large 

 schools were seen swimming about in the cj^uiet or still waters. 



SPARID^ 



59. Calamus penna (Valenciennes). Speckled Porgj'. Fig. 12 (young). 



Color in life brownish, pale piuple above on back, and side and lower 

 surface silvery. About six golden-olive vertical bands with edges of 




100 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



each scale within more or less diisky. Markings extending on fins 



which are very pale brownish. Iris golden. 

 The Marquesas and Boca Chica Key. 



Length 3j^ inches. 



Fig. 12. Calamxis penna (Valenciennes) 

 60- Lagodon rhomboides (Linnaus). Bream. 



Color in life pale bluish-olive above, below silvery white. Gilt lines 

 above parallel with lateral line, and below horizontal. "\^ertical lines 

 dusky slate-color, and forming a black blotch at beginning of lateral 

 line. Dorsal spines gilded silvery slate-color. A median broad gilt 

 bantl entire length of dorsal and anal. Edge of spinous doreal gilt. 

 Caudal brownish with golden tint. Pectoral and ventral whitish, 

 latter with a gilt line in middle of its length. Inside of gill-opening 

 silvery. Iris silvery with golden and brown. Length 3f inches. 



Marquesas, Grassy and Big Pine Keys, and Hailer's Rock. 



GERRID^. 

 61. Euoinostomus gula (Valenciennes). Shad. 



Color in life bright silvery, back tinted with very pale gray-blue. 

 About four indistinct grayish vertical bands on side of back, most 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



distinct in young examples. Dot-sal and caudal grayish, other fins 

 paler and translucent. Iris brownish with a brownish vertical bar. 



The ilarcjuesas, Boca Chica, West Cudjoe's and Grassy Keys, and 

 Hailer's Rock. , 



POMACBNTRID^. 



62. Pomaoentrns leuoostictns Muller and Troschcl. Cock Eye Pilot. 



Color in life with upper half of bodj- anteriority brilliant violet, this 

 color changing insensibly into yellow, and becoming intense orange- 

 yellow posteriorly as on caudal and on caudal pedvnicle. Spinous 

 dorsal like back in front. Rayed dorsal yellowish like back posteriori}-. 

 A black blue-edged ocellus at junction of dorsals basally. Lower 

 margin of anal olivaceous-yellow, rest of fin like abdomen. Pectoral 

 anil ventral orange. Three brilliant, or light, blue lines from eyes 

 and snout to occiput. Iris brown. 



Two small examples, a little less than an inch in length, were taken 

 in the tide-pools off Hailer's Rock. 'WTien in the water they are very 

 conspicuous on account of their brilliant coloration. They are not 

 especially active swimmers though shy, the smaller ones usually escap- 

 ing captm'e on account of their size. Found associated with Blennius 

 cristatus, Cyprinodon mydnis and Glyphisodon maurilii. 



63. Glyphisodon mauritii (Bloch). Sheepshead. 



Color in Ufe, back shaded with lemon-yellow. Five distinct vertical 

 bars of deep phunbeous, edges of scales within each dusky-plumbeous. 

 Lower sm'face of body chalky-white. Fins brownish and transverse 

 bars extending on them. Scales on base of anal specked with dusky, 

 otherwise plumbeous-white. Base of pectoral above, blackish. Each 

 ray and spine of ventral pale dusky, axillarj- scale white. Head above 

 phunbeous with a deep golden shade. Side of head plumbeous. Iris 

 brown, front rim yeUow. One example 4J inches long from the Mar- 

 quesas shallows. 



A young example from Hailer's Rock was more greenish-yellow above 

 in life. Below slaty-plumbeous, becoming more or less silvery on 

 ventral region. Vertical bars dusky. Greenish-yellow and dark bars 

 on spinous dorsal, other vertical fins pale-grayish. Pectoral and 

 ventral whitish. Iris brown. Length \\ inches. 



SOARID^. 



64. Cryptotoraus beryllinus Jordan and Swain. Parrot Fish. 



Color in life brown, edges of some scales darker, those on lower sur- 

 face of a light chestnut tint. Dorsal and anal slightly brownish, with 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



a ruddy tint and mottled with slightly darker spots. Caudal brown- 

 ish with slightly brownish cross-bars. Pectoral and ventral pale 

 brownish-white with slight cross-markings of a chestnut tint on latter. 

 Eye silvery. Marquesas. , 



Another, from same locality, had ventral and anal more rosj^-red. 

 Small ones were speckled with dusky and tinted orange-purple on 

 anal below. Spots on belly pale purple. 



65. Sparisoma flavescens (Schneider). Parrot Fish. 



^larquesas, Big Pine and Boca Chica Keys. 



66. PBendosoarus guaoamaia (Cuvier). Parrot Fish. Green Parrot Fish 



I saw a large example of this species swimming about the reef near 

 Snipe Key. In the water it appeared to be entirely dark green. 



CH^TODONTIDiE. 



67. Chsetodon capistratus Linna-us. Butterfly Fish. 



One example seen in the reef about Snipe Kej'. It was very evi- 

 dently this species and measured about 5 inches in length, as far as I 

 could judge. 



68. Fomacantlius arcnatus (Linnaus). Black Angel. 



Color in life blackish. Bars bright lemon-yeUow. Each scale on 

 side with a black spot. Iris deep blackish-brown, marginally blackish. 

 Length 4 -j^ inches. 



Only one example was taken about the roots of a red mangrove in 

 the ^Marquesas shallows. It was also reported by several fishermen 

 as rather conmion about the roots of overhanging mangroves of several 

 Keys. 



69. Angeliohthys ciliaris (Linua>us). Yellow Angel. Golden Angel. Blue Angel. 



Several of these beautiful fishes were seen about the reefs near 

 Snipe Key. They like the protection of large roclvs and are exceed- 

 ingly brilliant among their equally showy surroundings. 



MONACANTHID^. 



70. Stephanolepis hispidus (Linnreus). File Fish. Leather Fish. 



Color in life green mottled with whitish and brown. Iris pale 

 yellowish. Some examples with fine dusky dots and others vdih 

 pubic flap edged with pale orange. Subject to great color variation, 

 especially with respect to pattern. 



Verj- abundant in the sea--nTack about the Marquesas. Also taken 

 about Hailer's Rock. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



OSTRACIONTID.^E. 



71. Laotophrys trigonus (Liimaus). Trunk Fish. Shell Fish. 



Color in life pale olive with blue spots or dots. Blotch of blackish 

 on side. Fins pale j-ello-wish-brown, caudal more brownish. Base 

 of dorsal blackish. Iris pale yellowish. Length 6i inches. 



Marquesas Islands. 



72. Aoantliostraoion trioomis (LinnEeus). Horned Trunk Fish. 



Color in life with belly pale sulphury. Spots on body blackish- 

 brown. Fins pale brownish, caudal with a few spots. Chin whitish. 

 Iris yeUowish-white with brown spots. Length 3J inches. 



Marquesas Islands. 



TETRODONTID^. 



73. Spheroides nephelus Goode and Bean. Puffer. SwelUng Fish. 



Color in life with side of body citron-yellow. Back variegated with 

 pale vermiciilating blue lines of dots and marked with black spots. 

 Blue lines also forming ocelli of black lateral blotches. Fins dilute 

 brownish. Iris dilute yellowish. Length 2J inches. 



Marquesas Islands. 



74. Spheroides plumieri (Schneider). Puffer. Swelling Fish. 



Color in life brownish above tinted with pale olive and marbled -nith 

 blackish-brown. Tentacles on back whitish. A dark expanded 

 triangular blotch between eyes. Side of body ohve, blotches blackish. 

 Fins pale or dilute brownish. Caudal whitish, and basally and sub- 

 marginally with a broad transverse blackish-brown bar. Lower sur- 

 face of bo'dy chalky-white. Iris pale orange-yellow. Length 3^ 

 inches. 



Marquesas Islands' and a number from Boca Chica Key. 



DIODONTID^. 



75. Diodon hystrix Lmnseus. Porcupine Fish. 



This, and sometimes the following, are taken and dried as curios. 

 Nothing further than that both species occur was gathered from the 

 fishermen. 



76. Diodon holocanthus Linnajus. Porcupine Fish. 



77. Lyosphaera gibbosa Evermann and Kendall. Marble Fish. 



Color in life pale olivaceous above. Black below forming reticulat- 

 ing lines with bright orange spots. Black lines reticulating above in 

 olivaceous. Jaws pale brownish. Fins whitish. Iris pale golden. 

 Length \^ inches. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



This species was reported not at all uncommon in the shallows of 

 the ilarcpiesas about the Zostcra, though I only found one exami^le. 

 It is a very curious and interesting little animal and I watched it 

 inflate and collapse several times before death. The inflation was 

 slight, much less than that of Spheroidcs. This specimen agrees best 

 with the larger figiu-e given by Drs. Evermann and Kendall, ° though 

 the dark reticulating lines are more distinct. Tliose on top of 'the head 

 are narrow, or fine, and others are broken a little. Those all over 

 abdomen are broader and darker. 



SCORPiENIDJE. 



78. Scorpaena grandicoruis Ciivier. Sculpin. 



Color in life brownish ^'ariegated with darker and whitish. A broad 

 brownish band from eye down over cheek. Eye brownish. Fins 

 blackish-brown and whitish. Body marked most everj-where with 

 small whitish spots. Length 2j\ inches. 



Two examples were seined in the sea-wrack of the Marquesas shal- 

 lows. 



GOBIID^. 



79. Mapo soporator (Valenciennes). 



Color in life mottled brownish above, sides with darker brownish 

 spots. Back also with duskj' and olivaceous markings. Lower sui-- 

 face white. Margin of anal narrowly whitish. Ventral white. Other 

 fins more or less grayish and transparent. Iris brownish. Length 

 2^ inches. Hailer's Rock, in a tide-pool. After being in alcohol 

 there is an evident small bluish shoulder-spot. 



Another example was brownish in life with a dull bluish tint, spots 

 more didl or pale bluish, ilarkings on back brownish. Fins brown- 

 ish, spots pale bluish. Outer portions of dorsal pale j-ellowish, bas- 

 ally spotted with pale bluish, and brownish between. Caudal same. 

 Anal paler bluish than on dorsal, becoming somewhat dilute brownish- 

 yellow distally with a submarginal brownish line, and tip of each ray 

 wliitish. Pupil greenish, edged narrowly with golden. One example 

 4 inches long from the sea-wrack of the Marquesas shallows. 



PLEURONECTID^. 

 80. Platophrys ooellatus (Agassiz). Flounder. 



Color in life pale sandj'-brown, mottled with white, deep brown and 

 gray, white forming distinct spots. Fins also spotted with same 



'BiM. U. S. Fish. Comm., XVII, 1897 (1898). p. 131, PI. 9, figs. 11 and 12. 

 Rappahannock River, near t)ie mouth of Windmill Creek, Virginia. (W. C. 

 Kendall. Tj-pe Xo. 48,794, U. S. Nat. Mus.) 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



105 



colors, dark brownish spots at regular inter-\-als and showing through 

 on dextral side, which is whitish. Iris pinkish. 

 A single small example from the Marquesas. 



BLENNIID^. 



CLIXIX.E. 



CONGRAMMUS gen. nor. 



Type Congramrmis moorei sp. nov. 



Body elongate and tapei-ing from head. Head deep, large and 

 broadened posteriorly. Snout short. Eyes small, on top of head, 

 directed upwards, close together, and near tip of snout. Mouth su- 

 perior and much inclined. Lips with a series of large cutaneous flaps 

 or cirri. Teeth in jaws in fine bands. No teeth on vomer or pala- 

 tines. Interorbital space very narrow. No gill-rakers. No small 

 upturned hook on shoulder-gu'dle. Scales rather large and cycloid. 

 Lateral line continuous and arched till over pectoral. Dorsal not 

 divided, radii similar or no apparent spines, and about 40 in number. 

 Anal extending well forward on abdomen. Caudal free and rounded. 

 Pectoral with tips of lower rays, and those of other fins, with exception 

 of caudal, free. Oolor pale or brownish-white. 



Small Blennies found in tropical waters or in shallows with sandy 

 bottoms, and with something of the appearance of the Star Gazers or 

 Uranoscopidce. 



(K(i}j/30f, or rd>}/30fj Congrus, the ancient name of the Conger Eel ; 

 o/i/iof, sand.) 



81. Congrammns moorei sp. nov. Sand Conger. Fig. 13. 



Head of; liepth of trunk at tip of pectoral 6; least depth of body 7; 

 D. 41; A. Ill, 3.3; P. 14; V. I, 3; scales 46 in lateral hne to base of 



Fig. 13. Congrammus moorei Fowler. 



caudal, and 1 more on latter; 5 scales obliquely Ijetween dorsal 

 and lateral line at tip of pectoral, and 4 scales obliquely back and 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



down from same point to anal; witlth of head ly"-,, in its length; depth 

 of head U-; mandible 2|; caudal 2J; pectoral 1-g-; third ray of anal 3f ; 

 snout about 8 in head from tip of upper jaw; eye about 7^; inter- 

 orbital space about half of eye. 



Body elongate, swollen about branchial region in width but depth 

 at this point less than farther back, and rest of trunk or long tail taper- 

 ing. Upper profile convex, especially above pectoral posteriorly. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed, and its depth nearly a fifth of length of 

 head. 



Head large, compressed anteriorly and swollen laterally posteriorly, 

 and its greatest depth greater than that of trunk. Upper ijrofile 

 nearly straight, and but little inclined. Lower profile well inclined. 

 Snout very short and a little broad. Eyes superior, directed upwards, 

 close together near tip of snout and longer than broad. Mouth small, 

 superior, and with jaws protruding. Mandible produced beyond 

 upper jaw. Teeth in jaws, only apparent when mouth is open, fine 

 and in bands. Apparently no teeth on vomer or on tongue. Each lip 

 with a fringe of long cutaneous flaps of even length at regular inter- 

 vals and conspicuous at all times. Tongue thick, rounded, a little 

 posterior in mouth, and free in frojrt. Nostrils directly in front of 

 eye, separated, and anterior with a small cutaneous rim or in a short 

 tube. Interorbital space very narrow and a little concave. Opercle 

 with radiate striae above, each of which is produced beyond posterior 

 margin as a slender cutaneous process over gill-flap and beyond. 



Gill-opening large, extending forward about midway in length of 

 head. Rakers absent. Filaments small, about equal to orbital diam- 

 eter. Isthmus compressed, and surmounted with broadened sur- 

 face which is concave medianly. 



Scales only on trunk, except several on base of caudal, where they 

 are large. Scales cycloid, large, except on nuchal region anteriorly, 

 and in parallel series. Lateral line of large simple tubes and con- 

 tinuous, at first high or after fourteenth scale of its course midway in 

 depth of body. 



Dorsal of simple flexible rays, none apparently evident as spines, 

 tips of each free anteriorly, but becoming gradually more restricted 

 by membranes posteriorly where it is free from caudal. Origin of 

 dorsal beginning a trifle before posterior margin of preopercle. Anal 

 with three rather pungent short spines, anteriorly separated from rest 

 of fin, and nearly opposite origin of pectoral. Rest of anal, except 

 first few elongated rays which are more or less erect with first two 

 inclined forward and with well-developed membranes, similar to dorsal. 




1906.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Caudal rounded and small, free from dorsal and anal. Pectoral large, 

 broad, tips of lower rays free, and median rays longest. Ventrals 

 jugular, each with three graduated rays with more or less free tips. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish, whitish below, and a trifle darker on 

 top of head. Latter, and back, with many minute pale brown specks 

 or dots. Fins all transparent or brownish-white. Iris whitish, pupil 

 slaty. 



Color in life white, below lirighter, above more translucent and 

 marked on back alternately with pale brown and white. Fins trans- 

 parent whitish, dorsal and caudal hardly darker. Iris pale greenish- 

 white, becoming silvery marginally, and pupil black. 



Length 2 inches. 



Tj-pe Xo. 30,621, A. N. S. P. Hailer's Rock, Florida Keys. June 

 23, 1904. H. W. Fowler. 



Only a single example, the type, was taken in very shallow water on 

 the sandy shore of Hailer's Rock. 



(Named for Mr. Clarence B. Moore, of Philadelphia, well known for 

 his valuable researches in Ai-chseology, and through whose interest in 

 Zoologj' the expedition to the Florida Keys was realized.) 



BLENXIIN.E. 

 82. Slennins cristatas Linnwus. Rock Fish. 



Color in life olive-brown above, saddles darker than groimd-color. 

 Body speckled or minutely spotted with deeper brown and whitish, 

 markings becoming pale plumbeous below. Lines of dorsal brown. 

 Edge of fins whitish. Caudal tinted a little with pale green. Ab- 

 domen dilute greenish-white and translucent. Fins all very pale 

 transparent brownish, and pale markings dusky or whitish. Lower 

 surface of head pale dusky. Ej'e brown. Crest on head duU deep 

 red with dusky spots. 



A larger example with dilute carmine tints to margins of dorsals and 

 upper edge of caudal, posterior margin of latter and tips of dorsal 

 radii whitish. A whitish-plumbeous spot at base of each anal ray and 

 also at tip of each, submarginally dusky. Spots and lines on body 

 dilute plumbeous or pearh'-blue. Bars on caudal dusky. Occipital 

 filaments reddish. Axil of pectoral dusky. Brownish bars on lower 

 half of pectoral. Iris brown. 



SmaU examples have brownish lines on dorsal more pale brownish. 



Found very abundant in all the tide-pools on Hailer's Rock and 

 West Cxidjoe's Kej-. In such places they are often found completelv 

 entrapped, darting quickly about when disturbed, however, soon find- 




lOS PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



ing shelter in the crevices. They are colored much in keeping with 

 their surroundings, so that it is difficult to make out their presence 

 when quiet. 



83. Auohenopterus marmoratus (Stcindachner). Rock Fish. 



Color in life brown, darker markings dark brown. A pale spot on 

 side of head tinted greenish-white. Pale markings on body whitish 

 or pale brown. Caudal whitish. Blotches on dorsals and anals 

 blackish-brown. Iris reddish. One small example from the sea- 

 wrack in the Marquesas shallows. 



BROTULIDiE. 



84. Ogilbia cayorum Evermann and Kendall. 



Color in life nearly uniform or pale isabella-color, finely dusted with 

 minute darker specks or dots. Eye slaty. 



Four examples from West Cud joe's Key were taken in the tide- 

 pools. They all show a distinct opercular spine and have very incon- 

 spicuous or imbedded scales, not arranged transversely or otherwise 

 in indistinct series, the fish having the appearance of being naked when 

 alive. 



BATRACHID^. 



85. Opsanus tau (Linuieus). 



Color in life Ijrownish , below whitish. Dorsal and caudal pale brown, 

 markings darker. Paler markings creamy. Iris brownish. One 3f 

 inches from the Marquesas. 



Another, 1^ inches long, from West Cudjoe's Key has no -v'entral 

 sucking-disk. Color-pattern suggesting that of certain Cottidse. 

 Blotches on body and vertical fins posteriorly very large and confluent, 

 so that contrast between light and pale markings is pronounced. 

 Belly and abdomen immaculate whitish. 



OGCOCEPHALID^. 



86. Ogcooephalus radiatus (Mitcliill). Toad. Plate III. 



Color in life deep slaty-brown, without any distinct markings. 

 Dorsal, caudal, anal and pectorals same color above and basally l^elow, 

 and marked with a beautiful network of whitish lines forming more 

 or less distinct ocelli. Sides of trunk similarly colored. Lower distal 

 portion of pectoral, ventral, anal and caudal tinged with golden. 

 Under surface of body otherwise pale or soiled whitish. Iris brownish 

 with pale radiating line. Length 7|- inches. 



Big Pine and Ballast Keys, about the shallows. They do not move 

 fast and are easily captured in the hand or in a small clip-net. They 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



lurk about the rocks or sea-wrack, and their protective colors make it 

 difficult to distinguish them when quiet or not moving about. 



AMPHIBIANS. 



BUFONID^. 



87. Bufo quericus Holbrook. 



In life plumbeous-gray, markings dusky slate-color. Lower siu-face 

 of body translucent whitish. Soles of feet and toes brownish. Iris 

 with yellowish next to pupil. 



Abundant in the open gi-ass-land on Big Pine Key. They progress 

 bj" a series of short ji.inip)S. 



HYLID^ 



88. Hyla squirella Daudin. 



In life plmnbeous above speckled with diill brownish. A blackish- 

 brown line from tip of snout along side of head and including ej'e in 

 its course. Lower siu-face of body pale brownish-white. Legs pale 

 translucent brown, whitish below and posterior feet dusky. Iris 

 brown. 



This species was found on the ground about shady hammock-land 

 on Boca Chica Ke}\ I also saw one on a Gumbo Limbo tree on \'aca 

 Key. 



89. Hyla carolineusis (Pennant). 



A small green frog, evidently this species, was seen on Key West and 

 Boca Chica Key. 



REPTILES. 

 COLUBRID^. 



90. Natrix fasciata (Linnseus). Moccasin. 



C)ne example was taken in the mangroves of Boca Grande Ke\-. 

 Here they live in the pools among the roots and short sprouts, and are 

 thus difficult to see on account of the seclusion afforded. I did not 

 meet with it in any other localitj^ though it doubtless occurs as it 

 was reported from No Name Key. The vernacular is "Moccasin," 

 as distinguished from the "Cotton Mouth Moccasin" {Agkistrodon 

 contoririx). » 



91. Bascanion constrictor (Linnsus). Black Snake. 



Reported from Xo Name Key. Seen on Knight and Summerland 

 Keys. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maicll, 



92. Lampropeltis doliatus (Liuna?us). Red Snake. 



An example, reddish or coppery-red in color, was found on Boca 

 Chica Key. Others were reported from No Name, Sunimerland and 

 Cudjoe's Keys. 



OROTALID^. 



93. Crotalus adamanteus Beauvois. Rattler. Rattle Snake. Diamond Rattle Snake. 



Reported from Boca Chica, Big Pine and No Name Keys. I ob- 

 served it on Summerland and Sugar Loaf Keys, and on the latter one 

 was seemed. 



SCINCID^. 



94. Eumeces fasciatus (Linmeus). Lion. 



General color in life waxy-black. Lines on head and neck deep 

 brick-orange, becoming rather more orange on trunk, and finally fad- 

 ing into deep ultramarine-violet tail, though latter at fu-st azure. 

 Line along side of head paler or more ochraceous. Lower surface of 

 head pale or translucent, mandible somewhat dilute purplish and 

 throat greenish. A tinge of pale brick-color on lower side of head. 

 Iris brownish. Lower siu-face of trunk d\isky with brassy reflections. 

 Feet and legs black. 



This beautiful little lizard was fii-st noticed in the hammock-land 

 on the east end of Boca Chica Key. They were also rather plentiful 

 on Vaca Key, where a rather large one was seciu-ed. 



TEIDiE. 



95. Cnemidophorus sexlineatus (Linna-us). Lagarto. Lion. 



In life upper surface brownish, and from above hind legs to tip of 

 tail grayish-brown. Lower surface entirely chalky or livid dilute 

 lavender-blue, inclining more to bluish laterally. A median pale 

 streak from occiput along upper surface of tail to become joined with 

 its fellows. They unite with a slightly ochraceous one on each side, 

 though becoming pale gray on tail, and extending parallel from occiput. 

 A bright j'ellow line similar in shape and course from above posterior 

 margin of eye and extending back along side of tail where it also be- 

 comes gray. From lower eyelid below another of pale lemon to hip 

 and fading out on femur. Still another, and paler, fading out on ribs 

 in front. It is indistinctly definetl. Eyelid pale j^ellowish. Iris 

 brown. Lower side of head pale bluish. Top of head pale brown. 

 Inside of mouth tiesh-colored. Upper sm'faces of fore legs grayish- 

 brown. In sutures of squamation on posterior costal region, hind 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



leg.s, and front of tail, brick-colored patches. Lines fade out on tail 

 which is almost entirely gray a short distance from its base. A brown- 

 ish-gray line on posterior side of hind leg, leaving a white one between 

 it and color above. It extends along lower side of tail where it Ls blue- 

 green, and though continued a good distance back Ls not well defined. 

 Toes and soles of feet pale brownish flesh-color. 



Key West, Boca Chica, Big Pine. Knight, "S'aca and Grassy Keys. 

 The above notes are from an example from the former locahty. They 

 were abundant on most Keys, where they were seen rimning swiftly 

 through the grass. They soon hide in holes or among rocks. About 

 the lagoon on Key West I found them most common under low grassy 

 vegetation where numerous insects, such as small grasshoppers, were 

 seen. 



IGUANID^. 



96. Anolis principalis (Linnreus). Lion. 



Key West, Boca Chica, Marquesas, Big Pine, Xo Name, ^'aca. 

 Grassy and Summerland Keys. ]\Iany bright green examples were 

 seen on Key West among grasses and other green vegetation, from 

 which they are distinguished with difficulty. Those on the ground, 

 or on brown sticks, etc., were brown in color. I never saw the animal 

 change to the negative of its surroundings. They are quick, though 

 more easily captiu-ed than the other species. 



CROCODILID^. 



97. Alligator mississippiensis (Daudin). Alligator. 



Reported from several pools we saw on Little Pine Key, though I 

 did not see any example during our staj'. They were also reported 

 from pools on Siunmerlaml Key, and were said to occasionally reach 

 six feet in length. 



DERMOCHELYDIDJE. 



98. Dermochelys coriacea (Vamlellil. TtuuI;; Back. 



Frequentl}' taken about the Keys. Several shells were seen about 

 Key West. 



OHELONIID^. 



99. Thalassochelys caretta (Limui-usi. Logger Head Turtle. Logger Head. 



Reported as abundant in the past and still frequently taken. It, 

 like both of the following species, is much sought after, and bids fair 

 to become exterminated in a short time if the ruthless depredations of 

 the turtle-fisher are not speedily checked. These animals, aU of which 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mai'cll, 



breed in suitable places in the Keys, are thus subjected to addi- 

 tional danger as their eggs are also held in demand. These are eagerly 

 gathered when found and used as food. 



100. Eretmochelys imbricata (Linnaus). Hawk's Bill Turtle. 



Shells of this animal were seen in Key West. It was reported as of 

 frequent occurrence in past times. 



101. Chelonia mydas (Liuiiicus). Green Turtle. Turtle. 



Hunted for food and the most familiar of the family. Several 

 times newly laid eggs, most likeh^ of this species, were found on the 

 sandy beaches of the different Keys. 



BMYDIDiE. 



102. Ualaclemmys littoralis rhizophorarum subsp. nov. Terrapin. Diamond Back Ter- 



rapin. Plate IV. 



Head large, heavy, flattened somewhat above, and below, and a 

 little swollen laterally behind each eye. Eye large. Snout short, 

 and rather obtuse. Jaws each with a broad horny covering. ]\louth 

 large, and its profile together with mandible convex. Legs and feet 

 strong,' furnished with stout claws, five on each anterior limb and four 

 on each posterior. Claws on fore feet rather broad, and those on 

 hind feet narrow and longer. Scales on limbs well developed supe- 

 riorly. Tail short, conic, and rather weak. 



Carapace slightly ovoid when viewed from above, with its greatest 

 width opposite posterior portion of fourth vertebral plate. Anterior 

 carapace a little emarginate. Carapace deepest when viewed laterally 

 about middle of its length, or tops of crests of second and third verte- 

 bral plates highest with profile sloping down gradually in front and 

 behind. Lower margin of carapace sloping gently down to a point 

 above suture of seventh and eighth marginal plates, then turns up- 

 ward and outward a little to descend again behind. Vertical and 

 horizontal measurements of marginal plates forming bridge with 

 plastron, or fifth, sixth and seventh, about equal. Edges of marginal 

 plates from sixth backwards sharp and becoming more revolute to 

 most posterior. Axillary and inguinal plates well developed. Each 

 vertebral plate, except posterior which is evenly convex, with a 

 median keel surmounted by a more or less well developed osseous 

 tubercle posteriorly, and best developed proceeding to last. Each 

 plate of carapace with conspicuous concentric rings. Plastron a trifle 

 ovoid, and its greatest width would fall a trifle in advance of its middle 

 or about middle of bridge. Front of plastron nearly truncate or its 

 anterior edge only very slightly emarginate. Beliind bridge sides of 

 plastron nearly paraUel to posterior margin of femoral j)late where 

 there is a prominent notch, and then more convergent to ends of anal 




1906.] NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



plates which are fm-nished with a deep notch on median Une. Epider- 

 mal plates of plastron smooth. 



Color in life. Carapace deep dusky, with perhaps faint or obscure 

 darker mottlings. Inferior portion of marginal plates of carapace of 

 the same shade of pale yellowish-brown as the plastron, though at each 

 suture a broad blackish blotch. These blotches are most distinct and 

 conspicuous on the bridge, those of posterior plate.s very narrow. Plas- 

 tron dull or pale yellowish-brown, and articulation of each plate with 

 a broad irregular blackish margin, at least anteriorly. Head, legs, 

 feet and tail pale-slaty or plumbeous, and former speckled or spotted 

 with a dark or dusky-slaty. On legs this is evident as each scale has a 

 dark or slaty center. Jaws whitish or of a whitish horn-color. Top of 

 head pale or light. Eye grayish. Claws horn-color, dark or brownish 

 above. 



Length of carapace 7| inches. 



Type, No. 16,570, A. N. S. P. Boca Grande Key. Florida. June 

 IS, 1904. H. W. Fowler. Clarence B. Moore Collection. 



This form is known to me only from the above described example, 

 which was collected in a pool among the mangroves of Boca Grande 

 Key together with Natrix. It did not appear to me to be especially 

 abundant on the islands we visited, whether for seclusive habits or other 

 reasons, I could not tell. It was reported from other islands within 

 the limits of om- trip, however. As it is highly valued as food it is 

 much sought after. Provisionally, as a form of Mal(iclemmys littoralis 

 of Prof. Hay,' from the Texas coasts, it may be recognized as a distinct 

 subspecies. Although he had a very large series of indi\'iduaLs, the 

 sutures of the marginal plates of the carapace are not described as 

 black, which is the case in the example before me. His figm-es do not 

 show this, and certainly the colored one of the adult is different. I 

 have recently had the opportunity of examining a large series of several 

 hundred living examples of Malademmys centrata (LatreUle), through 

 Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, in the markets of Philadelphia. Most of these 

 were said to have been procured near Savannah, Georgia. Great 

 variations in color were noticed, some indi\'iduals approaching the 

 above described example verj- closely, while others had perfectly 

 uniform plastrons, etc. Most of the variations, like those figured under 

 Emys concentricd by Sowerby and Lear.' were found. 

 {Rhizophora, Mangrove.) 



' Bull. Bureau of Fish., XXIV, 1905, p. 18. 



» Tort. Terrap. Turt., 1872. Four figiires referable to Pis. 33-5.5, and 36, are 

 not numbered in tlie copy before me. 

 8 




114 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



NEW, KARE OE LITTLE KNOWN SCOMBROIDS, NO. 3. 



BY HENRY T\-. FOWLER. 



CHLOROSCOMBRIN^. 

 Chlorosoombrus hesperius sp. nov. Fij;. l. 



Head 4; depth 2f; D. i, VIII-I, 26; A. II-I, 25; P. ii, 17; V. I, 5; 

 scales 98? (squamation injured) in lateral line to base of caudal; depth 

 of head, over middle of orbit, l^i in its length; width of head 2-J-; 

 mandible 2; third dorsal spine 2y\; second dorsal ray 2; fii'st anal ray 

 ^iTTJ ventral 2^; snout 3f in head, measured from tip of upper jaw; 

 eye 2*; maxillary 2^; interorbital space 3f ; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 5^; upper caudal lobe 3^ in head and trunk; pectoral 2|. 



Body rather shorter than in C. chrysurus, strongly compressed, 



Fig. 1. — Chloroscoinbrus hespcrius Fowler. 



ovoid, lower profile much more convex than upper and greatest depth 

 at base of spinous anal. Caudal peduncle long, slender, compressed, 

 and its least depth about 3 in its length. 



Head deep, compressed. Snout short, forming obtuse profile, upper 

 surface convex and upper jaw little produced. Eye rather large. 




1906.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



circular, and a little high and anterior. Adipose eyelid broad poster- 

 iorly, and covering a good portion of iris. Mouth obliquely vertical, 

 rather small, and mandible well protruded. Maxillary reaching op- 

 posite front margin of eye, and its distal expanded extremity a trifle 

 less than pupil or about 4 of orbit. Teeth minute, in bands in jaws, 

 and also present on vomer, palatines and tongue. Tongue long, 

 rather narrow, with roimded tip, and free in front. Lips thin, except 

 lower on side of mandible. Interorbital space elevated and with a 

 median elevated trenchant keel extending to occiput. Nostrils adjoin- 

 ing, near upper front rim of orbit and posterior larger. 



Gill-opening extending forward about opposite posterior nostril. 

 Rakers 10 + 33, slender, compressed, and longest f of orbit. Fila- 

 ments about -f- length of longest rakers, and pseudobranchise about 

 same size. Isthmus narrowly compressed, and its edge not trenchant. 



Scales small, cycloid, and forming convex series bulging posteriorly 

 over costal region. A few small scales on occipital region, postocular 

 region, and on opercle above, head otherwise naked. SpinoiLS dorsal 

 and anal depressible in narrow scaly sheaths. Soft dorsal and anal 

 anteriorly with basal scaly sheaths and rays more or less depressible 

 within. Lateral line convex anteriorly, its bulge about equal to If 

 in straight portion, andjio keel. 



Spinous dorsal small, inserted nearly midway between tips of upper 

 jaw and pectoral, and fourth or fifth spine probably longest (damaged). 

 Soft dorsal iaserted nearly midway between front rim of orbit and 

 base of last dorsal ray, a little in front of straight part of lateral line, 

 and first few rays elongated a little. Soft anal similar, inserted a 

 little in advance of soft dorsal. Origin of spinous anal about last 

 third in space between origin of ventral and that of soft anal, second 

 spine probably a Uttle longer (first damaged). Caudal rather large, 

 lobes slender, pointed, and upper much longer. Pectoral long, slender, 

 and reaching about opposite first third of base of anal, ^'entral in- 

 serted a httle behind origin of pectoral, small, both fins depressible in 

 a groove extending to and containing vent, and when depressed thus 

 reaching f of space to spinous anal. 



Color in alcohol more or less silvery, and back above brownish. A 

 small duU or pale brown spot on upper edge of opercle. Head pale 

 brown above. Eye dull brassy. Fins pale brownish, spinous dorsal 

 and upper anterior dorsal rays with a little brownish. A blackish 

 blotch at base of upper caudal lobe. 



Length 6f inches. 

 JType No. 11,198, A. N. S. P. West Africa. Dr. H. E. Savage. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [IMarch, 



This species Ls closely related to Scomber Moris Bloch, with which it 

 may possibly prove identical. However, that form, if the original 

 figure is to be trusted, is very close to Scomber chrysurus Linnaeus. 

 It will be seen to differ from C. cfvrysurus in the slightly deeper form, 

 larger eye, more anterior insertion of the anal, and longer pectoral. 

 The gill-rakers are about the same. 



i'Eff-ipiof, western, with reference to the type locality.) 



TRACHINOTINiE. 

 GLATJCUS Walbaum. 



Iflein, in Walbaum, Pet. Arted. Gen. Pise, III, 1792, p. 585. "R-ith 

 Scomber amia LinneeiLs as type, has priority over Hypacantus Rafin- 

 esque, Carat. Alcun. Xuov. Gen. Spec. An. Piant. Sicilia, ISIO (April 1st), 

 p. 43 {=Hypacanthus =Hypacantha =Hypodis =Hypodys Rafinesque 

 =IAchia Cuvier =Porthmeus Valenciennes). 



Glaiicus amia (Linnaeus) examined. 



CAMPOGEAMMA Regan. 



Campogramma Regan is distinct, as an examination of Campo- 

 gramma glaiicus (Linnseus) shows. 



TEACHINOTUS LacSpMe. 



P.\MPAN0.\ subgen. nov. 



Type ChoBtodon glaucus Bloch. 



Anterior rays of dorsal and anal prolonged so that they form long 



falcate lobes. Caudal long and triangular. Side with several dark 



transverse vertical bars, at least above. Trachinotus glaucus (Bloch) 



examined. 



{Pdmpano [Spanish], a common vernacular for the fishes of this 

 genus and mostly WTitten Pompano.) 



Subgenus TRACHINOTUS LacepMe. 



T. ovatus (Linnaeus), T. falcatus (Linnaeus), T. gore&tisis Cuvier and 

 T. carolinus (Linnaeus) examined. 



STROMATEID^. 



STROMATEIN.E. 

 Subgenus STROMATEUS Limiaeus.i 

 Stromateus brasiliensis sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 4J; depth 2A; D. V. 40; A. V, 37; P. II, 18; width of head l^ 

 in its length ; snout 3| ; eye 4 J ; maxillary 3| ; interorbital space 2f : 



' Stromateus fiatola Linnseus examined. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



117 



least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; pectoral (damaged), a little less than 

 head; upper lobe of caudal (damaged) about .3^ in head and trunk; 

 about 125? scales in a lateral series from gill-opening below lateral 

 line to base of caudal. 



Body ovate, deep, compressed, and greatest depth about origins of 

 rayed dorsal and anal. Back rather trenchant before dorsal. Caudal 

 pedimcle compressed, its least depth about f of its length. 



Head deep, compressed, bhmt in front, profiles steep, and upper a 

 little concave in front. Snout bhmt, convex and profile in front nearly 

 vertical. Eye rather small, circular, a little low, and posterior margin 





■^feiishei^i 



Fig. 2. — Siromateus brasilietisis Fowler. 



about midway in length of head. Adipose eyelid well developed, and 

 concealing a good portion of eye. Mouth a little inclined, small, and 

 mandible hardly protruded in front. Maxillary not quite reaching 

 front rim of orbit, and distally expanded till about equal to pupil. 

 Teeth minute, uniserial, and forming a rather weak cutting edge. 

 Palatines with minute asperites. Vomer edentulous. Tongue smooth, 

 broad, roimded, and free in front. Nostrils adjoining, a little nearer 

 front of snout than front margin of eye, and posterior larger. Inter- 

 orbital space elevated, trenchant, a keel beginning at the internasal 

 region. Preopercle broad and with radiating flutings. Opercle 

 striate. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Gill-opening extending forward about opposite front margin of eye. 

 Rakers 5 + 13, pointed, longest about | of longest filaments which 

 are f of orbit. Pseudobranchise a trifle longer than longest raker. 

 Isthmus rounded. 



Scales small, and extending well out on most of fins, almost entirely 

 on dorsals and anals where they are greatly reduced and crowded. 

 Head naked except cheek and opercle. Lateral line damaged, convex 

 at least anteriorly. 



Dorsal apparently over middle of pectoral, spines graduated to last 

 which is longest though not as high as longest anterior rays. Anals 

 similar though origin of spinous well posterior, a little before end of 

 pectoral. Only first 7 or 8 rays of rayed dorsal and anal a httle longer 

 than others. Caudal large, forked, and lobes rather broad. Pectoral 

 broad, its origin a little above lower rim of orl)it. Anus placed nearly 

 opposite origin of spinous dorsal. 



Color in alcohol pale brown, mostly uniform, or the back only£a 

 trifle darker and marked Avith indistinct traces of mmierous crowded 

 slightly darker or graj-isli spots. Fins pale brown, pectoral a trifle 

 darker. Iris dull brassy. 



Length 13f inches. 



Type No. 11,-354, A. N. S. P. Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Mus. 

 Comp. Zool. Cambr., Mass. 



One example which does not agree with Gay's figiu-e of Stromatens 

 maculatus? This is very poor, as no squamation whatever is indi- 

 cated, the fins are naked, also the head, there is no adipose eyelid, 

 opercle and preopercle without stria?, and the spots are greenish- 

 golden, the lower ones brighter. The dorsal shows VI, 38, and the 

 anal III, 32. Jenyn's Chiloe example ' had D. VII, 41, and A. V, 50, 

 and the one from Port St. Julien in Central Patagonia is possibly 

 identical with S.. brasiliensis. The original account of »S'. maculatus 

 by Valenciennes states that the spots are yellow. 



{Brasiliensis, of Brazil.) * 



PTERORHOMBUS subgen. nov. 



Type Fiatola jasciata Risso. 



Fiatola Risso, Hist. Nat. Eur. Merid., Ill, 1826, p. 289 (Jasciata). (Not of 

 Cuvier.) 



Small ventrals present. Stromateus jasciata (Risso) examined. 



2 Atl. Hist. Chile, Zool.. 185-1, "lam .3bia." fig. 1. 

 » Zool. Voy. Beagle, IV, Fish, 1842. p. 74. 

 * Hist. Nat. Poiss., IX, 18.33, p. 296. 




1906.] NATITRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



(Ihspov, fin. with reference to ventral; ' p6 i^in^s ^ Rhombus, a rhomb 

 or diamond, and formerly applied to species of Seserinus, Palometa 

 and Poronotus.) 



SESEBIinTS Quoy and Gaimard. 



Seserinus Cuvier, in Quoy and Gaimard, Voj-age de I'Uranie, Zool., 

 Jan. -Mar., 1825, p. 384 {xanthurus), has priority over Peprilus Cuvier, 

 Regne Animal, Ed. II, II, 1829, p. 214 (longipennis = paru), now 

 in use. Cuvier's account in I.e. .Ed.l. II, 1817. p. S42{alepidotus = paru) 

 cannot be used on account of its vernacular form. Seserinus xanthurus 

 Quoy and Gaimard examined. 



NOMEin^. 

 Paenes chapmani sp. nov. Fig. 3. 



Head 3: depth It; D. X, I, 23; A. Ill, 25; P. ii, 17; V. I, 5; scales 60 

 in lateral line to base of caudal; 9 scales vertically between origin of 

 soft dorsal and lateral line, and about 25 vertically between latter and 

 origin of soft anal ; width of head 2 in its length ; depth of head over 

 middle of eye about equal to its length ; snout 3f ; eye 3 ; maxillary 3 ; 

 interorbital space 3; least depth of caudal peduncle 3; pectoral If; 

 ventral IJ. 



Body deep, compressed, rather ovoid, profiles similar, and greatest 

 depth about origin of soft anal. Caudal peduncle compressed, and its 

 least depth about l\ in its length. 



Head deep, compressed, profiles steep, and similar, blunt in front. 

 Snout short, blimt, convex, upper jaw but slightly projecting. Eye 

 rather large, circular, anterior, antl its lower margin about midway in 

 depth of head. Jlouth small, jaws about even, and maxillary extend- 

 ing obliquely down barely opposite front margin of orbit. Teeth in 

 jaws uniserial. rather pronounced, well separated and sharp. No 

 teeth on roof of mouth. Tongue rounded, and free in front. Nostrils 

 small, very close together, and well in front of eye above. Inter- 

 orbital space convexly elevated. 



GiU-opening extending forward about opposite front rim of orbit. 

 Rakers 1 1 + 20, clavate, a little shorter than filaments which are about 

 2 in orbit. Pseudobranchise nearly as large as filaments. 



Scales small, those above lateral line forming series parallel with 

 its course, and those below forming horizontal longitudinal series. 

 Except interorbital space, supraocular region, nasal region, snout, 

 mandible, and branchiostegal region, head is covered with scales, 

 those on middle of cheek and opercle largest. About 7 series on cheek. 

 Scales in front of spinous dorsal small and crowded. Vertical fuis 




120 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



fMarch, 



almost entirely scaled over most of basal regions which form sheaths 

 for spinous dorsal and anal and also rayed dorsal and anal at least 

 anteriorly. Only ends of caudal lobes naked. Scales on bases of these 

 fins also small and crowded. Base of pectoral scaly. Ventral -nith 

 innermost ray united to abdomen by a membrane and both fins de- 

 pressible in a grooAe. Lateral line ciu-ved similarly with profile of 

 back, also approaching it more closely posteriorly, and extending a 

 little above middle of side of caudal peduncle. Lateral line not 

 extending on base of caudal and tubes sunple. 



Spinous dorsal inserted a trifle in advance of origin of pectoral, 

 spines flexible, and graduated to fourth which is longest. Soft dorsal 



Fig. 3. — Psenes chapmani Fowler. 



inserted a little nearer tip of snout than base of caudal or about over 

 middle of pectoral, and fin a little higher anteriorly. Anal similar, 

 spines graduated to third which is longest, and rayed fin inserted per- 

 haps a trifle in advance of rayed dorsal. Caudal forked, lobes rather 

 long and pointed. Pectoral broad, hardly reaching haiS way to tip 

 of last anal ray. Ventral inserted a little behind origin of pectoral, 

 and reaching second anal spine. Anus in ventral groove before tip of 

 ventral fin. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Color in alcohol rich warm brown, lower surface i:)aler, evidently- 

 silvery in life. Along each series of scales on side of body a narrow 

 streak or line of darker color than general body-color. Above lateral 

 line these also follow series of scales parallel with it, and below it they 

 are also horizontal. Lower side of head including cheek and opercle 

 spotted or dotted with brown. Spinous dorsal and ventrals dusky- 

 brown. Rayed dorsal with more or less pale dusky-brown on its outer 

 portion. Caudal and anal paler. Pectoral pale brownish. Inside of 

 mouth pale. Iris brassy. Peritoneum whitish. 



Length 3f inches. 



Type No. 14,621, A. N. S. P. Taken on the smiace of the open 

 Atlantic in Lat. 24° 21' N., Long. 34° 32' W. (northwest of Cape de 

 Verde Islands). Dr. W. H. Jones. Also seven paratjqies with same 

 data. The very young differ in having the body marked with large 

 blotches, no longitudinal lines on side, and lower parts of head together 

 with thorax marked with numerous brown spots. Larger example 

 with 28 rays. 



Young examples also from the open Atlantic's surface in Lat. 23° 

 53' N., Long. 53° 06' W. (northwest of the Lesser Antilles). Another 

 also from the Atlantic in the Saragossa Sea. All from Dr. William H. 

 Jones. 



The East Indian form ' needs comparison. Psenes guttatus appa- 

 rently differs in coloration, especially the spotted thorax and lower 

 surface of the head. None of my examples show a trace of the bluish 

 bar indicated by Valenciennes. Psenes edwardsii Eigenmann ° has 

 a little different radial formula and about 140 scales in the lateral line. 



(Dedicated to Dr. Henry C. Chapman, Professor of Institutes of 

 Medicine and Medical Jurisprudence in the Jefferson Medical College 

 of Philadelphia, who has contributed many valuable additions to the 

 ichthyological collections of the Academy.) 



LEPODID^ fam. nom. nov. 

 LEPODXTS Eaflnesque. 



Carat. Alcun. Gen. Spec. An. Plant. Sicilia, 1810, p. 53 {saragus = ran) 

 is to be used, as Brama Klein, in Walbaum, Pet. Arted. Gen. Pise, III, 

 1792, p. 586, with Cyprinus brama Linnaeus as tjT)e, preoccupies Brama 

 Schneider, Syst. Ichth., Bloch, 1801, p. 98, based on Sparus rati Bloch. 

 The Pomfret, Lepodtis rati (Bloch), examined. 



« Hist. Nat. Poiss., IX, 1833, p. 193, PI. 265. 



'Bull. U. S. Fish. Comm., XXI, 1901 (1902), p. 35, fig. From under a 

 medusa, 30 miles south of Newport, Rhode Island. 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Match, 



CORYPH^NID^. 



Coryphoena equiselis Linnsevis is of perfectly correct form, and not to 

 be emended to C. equiselis as somewTiters seem to suppose. Further, 

 it is not a misprint for the latter but simply a different form of the same. 

 A small example, 25 mm. in length, from between the Cape de Verde 

 Islands and Montevideo (Uru2;uay'), examined. 



PEMPHERIDiB. 



PEMPHEEIS Cuvier. 



PRIACANTHOPSIS BUbgen. nov. 



Tj^pe Pempheris mulleri Poey. 



Anal rays 25 to 32. Pempheris niiilleri Poey examined. 

 (^Ilpiuiv, saw; uKavda, Spine; o4'i.i, appearance. So named as these 

 fishes resemble the yoimg of Priacanthus.) 



This paper concludes the series. 




1906.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHTA. 123 



MOLLUSCA OF THE SOUTHWESTERN STATES. II. 

 BY H. A. PIL8BRY AND J. H. FERHISS. 



Tlie present paper deals with mollusks of Texas, New Mexico and 

 Arizona, collected chiefly by the authors in 1903, and not included in 

 the first paper of this series.' No attempt has been made to present 

 complete faunas : but in connection with the pre\'ious paper, about all 

 the reliable data extant upon the snail faunas of the Chiricahua and 

 Huachuca ranges in southeast Arizona and the eastern and southern 

 borders of the Lower Sonoran area in Texas will be found herein.^ 

 It has not been thought expedient to repeat data elsewhere accessible. 



For the student of molluscan distribution, the life zones of the United 

 States as mapped by Dr. Merriam ^ emphasize the secondary and not 

 the primary facts of distribution. The laws of temperature control, 

 which he has developed with keen insight, do not define transcon- 

 tinental zones of primary import zoologically. These zones are sec- 

 ondary divisions of vertical life areas of which the molluscan faunas 

 were evolved in large part independently. The Sonoran fauna is 

 probably intermingling more now with that of eastern North America 

 than at any former time, at least so far as such sedentary forms as 

 land mollusks are concerned. 



Similar conclusions have been reached by Mr. A. E. Brown Ln deal- 

 ing with Texan reptiles.* The results of his study "establish three 

 facts, hitherto not wholly free from uncertainty: fu-st. that the bound- 

 ary between the Austroriparian and Sonoran reptilian faunas Ues ap- 

 proximately between the 96th and 98th meridians of longitude in 

 Texas; second, that the restricted Texan district of Cope is not Aus- 

 troriparian but Sonoran; thud, that transcontinental zones of distribu- 

 tion cannot be maintained in the Medicoliunbian region for reptiles. ' ' 



' Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 1905, p. 211. 



^ Some New Mexican records, chiefly from material collected by Prof. T. D. A. 

 Cockerell in the upper Pecos valley, are added. 



' Biological Survey, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Bulletin No. 11, Map. Norfh 

 American Fauna, Xo. 25, Plate I. 



'Texas Reptiles and their Faunal Relations, Proc. A. A'. S. Philn 1903 pp. 

 543-558. 



Post-Glacial Nearctic Centers of Dispersal for Reptiles, Proc. A N S Phila 

 1904, p. 464. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



". . . . the community in reptiles between the Sonorari and the 

 Austroriparian is much less than that between the Sonoran and the 

 Central; it is, in fact, limited to wideh' ranging genera .... the 

 separate identity of these two faunas [Sonoran and Austroriparian], 

 as far back as they can be traced, confirms the conclusion already 

 reached, from their present distribution, that the association of the 

 Sonoran with the Austroriparian into one transcontinental zone is 

 unnatural." 



This terse statement only requires the substitution of "moUusks" 

 for "reptiles" to serve as a summary of the results of om- present in- 

 vestigation. In land moUusks, as in reptiles, the Sonoran tj^pes have 

 piished farther into the himiid Austroriparian than the eastern types 

 into the Sonoran area. Bulimulus and the texasiana group of Poly- 

 gyra are cases in point; while Eastern subgenera of Polygyra. and prac- 

 tically all Austroriparian forms except the minute, widely ranging 

 genera, stop short at the rise marking the approximate limit of the 

 Cretaceous formation and the Sonoran area in Texas. The common 

 boundary of the Austroriparian and Sonoran, while surprisingly sharp 

 for continuous areas, is deeply accidented by the river valleys, which 

 carry very narrow Austroriparian ramifications into Sonoran borders. 

 Thus, along the San Marcos river in Hays county, the Guadalui^e 

 river in Comal county, and the San Antonio river in Bexar coimty, 

 an Austroriparian fauna with such Eastern forms as Omphalina, Poly- 

 gyra thyroides. P. monodon jratertia, P. auriformis, P. roemeri, Bulimu- 

 lus d. liqvabilis, etc., is found, while the fauna on the bluffs or away 

 from the streams is frankly Sonoran. Farther southwest, the Aus- 

 troriparian forms are wholly wanting, even where moist local condi- 

 tions prevail, as in the immediate vicinity of the streams of Val Verde 

 county. 



A list of the forms characteristic of the eastern or lower portion of 

 the Sonoran in Texas (Texan District of Cope) follows : 



Praticolella berlandieriana Strobilops I. texasianus 



Thysanophara hornii Zonitoides nummus 



Polygyra hippocrepis Vitrea indentata umbilicata 



Polygyra texasiana hyperolia Vitrea dalliana roemeri 



Polygyra t. texasensis Euconulus chersinus trochulus 



Polygyra mooreana' Helicodiscus eigenmanni 



Bvlimvlus d. mooreanus Planorbis carus 



Bulimulus d . ragsdalei Planorbida obstructa 



' Tliis species extends somewhat into the Austroriparian. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Bulimulus d. pecosensis Goniobasis comalensis 



Bulimulus alternatus marioe Paludestrina seemani 



Holospira roemeri Paludestrina diaholi 



Holospira goldfussi Ammicola comalensis 



Microceramus texanus Cochliopa riograndensis 



Euglandina singleyana Potamopyrgus spinosus 



Bifidaria procera cristata Valvata micra 



Nine genera of this list are not known to occur in the Austro- 

 riparian or hiimid region of Texas. For list of the latter fauna, 

 the student is referred to the catalogue of Mr. J. A. Singley, cited below, 

 from which a long list of Austroriparian forms of Eastern type may 

 readily be compiled. 



The first list of Texan mollusks of any extent was pubUshed by 

 Romer in his excellent work on Texas, 1849. Numerous references 

 to the terrestrial mollusks will of course be found in Binney's successive 

 volumes. In 1878 Mr. A. G. Wetherby" published some notes on the 

 forms he foimd in eastern Texas {American Naturalist for 1878, pp. 

 184, 254). The principal soiu-ce of information, however, is Mr. J. A. 

 Singley's Contributions to the Natural History of Texas, part I, Texas 

 Mollusca, published in the Fourth Annual Rep. Geol. Survey of Texas, 

 1893. In this list Mr. Singley has included with the records of his 

 own extensive collecting, others from many sources, so that the records 

 are of unequal value. The Texan list stands much in need of revision 

 and a good many names thereon are doubtless to be rejected, either 

 because the forms do not occur in Texas, as in the case of Ampidlaria, 

 or because of wTong identifications ; yet the work cannot be done until 

 resident naturalists take it up. 



HELICINID^. 

 Helioina orbioulata tropica ' Jan ' Fir. 



Texas: San Marcos, Hays county; Comal county, around New 

 Braunfels; San Antonio, Bexar county; two miles north of Hondo, 

 Medina county; Del Rio, Devil's river and High Bridge of the Pecos, 

 Val Verde county. 



Some colonies are aU white; others are mingled with red or blue 



shells. 



HELICID^. 



Pratioolella berlandieriana (Moric). Figs. 1. 2. 



Texas: San Marcos, Hays county; Guadalupe river above New 



• By error Mr. Wetherby's name was printed "W. G. Weatherby " 




126 • PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Braunfels, Comal county; San Antonio, Bexar county; Hondo river, 



two miles north of Hondo, Medina county; Del Rio, Val Verde county. 



Mr. Ferriss took some thin, translucent specimens, 8x10 mm., at 



Smithville. The shell vai-ies from 9.8 to 11.7 mm. diam. The pub- 



Fig. 2. 



lished figm-es do not show that there is frequently a short lamellar 

 tooth or callous on the parietal wall near the suture, a short distance 

 within, as shown in the ^figured specimen from the Guadalupe river 

 near New Braunfels. 

 Thysanophora hornii (Gabb). 



Texas: Hondo river, near Hondo, Medina county; Rio San Filipe, 

 near Del Rio; Devil's river, west of Del Rio, and Pecos river at the 

 High Bridge, Val Verde county, all in river drift. 



New Mexico: Florida mountains, near Deming, Grant county. 



Arizona: Cochise county; Cave creek canyon in the Chiricahua 

 mountains; Fort Bowie; drift of San Pedro river at Benson, and 

 Manilla mine, at the west end of the Huachuca mountains. 



This small species is a typical Thysanophora, closely relatetl to the 

 type of the genus. It varies but little throughout its extensive range, 

 unless it be in the cuticular lines and hairs, which are worn off of the 

 river-drift specimens. It has not before been reported in this country 

 from east of Cook's, Grant county, N. M. Our collection of 1903 

 extended its known range in the United States more than 500 miles 

 eastward, to the border of the Staked Plains in central-southern 

 Texas. Fm-ther localities in Arizona are given in Nautilus, XII, p. 99. 



In Mexico, T. hornii has been collected at Topo Chico, near Mon- 

 terey, Nuevo Leon, and at Victoria, Tamaulipas {Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 

 1903, p. 763). It is therefore one of the widely distributed species of 

 the States both north and south of the international boundary in 

 the Sonoran area. 



Polygyra auriformis (Bid.)- 



Helix auriformis Bland, .4nn. Lye. Nat. Hist, of N. Y.. VII, p. 37 (1858). 

 ? Helix sayii Wood, Index Testaoeologicus, Suppl., p. 22, pi. 7, p. 34 n (1828) . 



Texas: Galveston (J. H. Ferriss); Calhoun county (Hubbard) ; 




1906. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



127 



Austin and San Antonio (PUsbiy, lSS-5); along the Guadalupe river, 

 three or four miles above New Braunfels (Ferriss and PUsbry). Siag- 

 ley adds the localities Bastrop and Burleson counties. It is an Austro- 

 riparian species which reaches into the borders of the Lower Sonoran 

 area along the river bottoms. 



While the identity of Wood's H. sayi with auriformis is not estab- 

 lished with sufficient certainty to make a substitution advisable, in 

 our opinion, yet there can be no doubt that Wood had either that 

 species or one of its immediate allies. Helix sayi of Binney, 1840, 

 being a homonym, may be changed to Polygyra sayana {Terrestrial 

 Molhtsks. Ill, pi. XXlil). 



Polygyra hippocrepis (Pfr.). Figs. 3. -i. 



The known range of this curious snail is exceedingly restricted. It 

 has been foimd only near New Braunfels, in Comal county, Texas. 

 We found it in abundance in April. 190-3, on the west side of the 

 Guadalupe river about foiu- to six miles north of New Braunfels, 

 under stones near and at the foot of the bluff, with Holospira goldfussi. 

 Another place much nearer the town is on the rocky wooded hillside 

 above the springs of Comal creek, where we foimd a few living ones. 

 This place is just beyond the pleasiu-e gardens. 



Fig. 4. 



The structure of the aperture of P. hippocrepis has never been fully 

 described or figm-ed. The parietal tooth is not V-shaped as in other 

 Polyg\Tas, but U-shaped, hence the name hippocrepis — horseshoe. 

 There is an internal tubercle on the columella, as in P. mooreana. The 

 upper and lower lip-teeth enter and arch towards each other, forming 

 a U-shaped ciu-ve. which stands close to but a little deeper than that 

 formed by the parietal tooth. "^Tiere the two entering teeth join 

 there is a notch and a delicate slender hook with the point ciu-ved 

 towards the adjacent basal wall projecting forward. The immersion 

 of the originally lower lip-tooth gives room for a secondary callous 

 ridge along the basal lip. a? shown in fig. 4. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



These structures form in their way a more perfect barrier perhaps 

 than that produced by other means in P. auriculata and uvulifera. The 

 species stands isolated at present. It Ls perhaps an aberrant and 

 highly evolved relative of the Tennessee-Arkansas group of P. jack- 

 soni, etc. 



Polygyra tezasiana (Moricand). PI. V, a^. 16, 17, 20. 



Specimens of typical P. texasiana were taken by us in Hays, Comal 

 and Bexar counties, Texas. Ferriss took it at Galveston. The type 

 locality is "Texas." In this widespread form the last two whorls 

 are strongly rib-striate above, the riblets rapidly diminishing on pre- 

 ceding whorls; tlie embryonic whorl is smooth and glossy. The ribs 

 are strongest just behind the lip, and here continue upon the periphery 

 or to the base, which is elsewhere nearly smooth or merely rippled. 

 Fresh shells show a reddish peripheral band on the pale brownish- 

 corneous surface. Specimens- figured are from the we.st side of the 

 Guadalupe river above New Braunfels, Texas. Alt. 5, diam. 11 mm. 



Along the Rio Grande P. texasiana occurs with transition forms to 

 P. t. hyperolia. See below. 



Form with striate base. In some localities the ribs of the upper sur- 

 face continue upon the base (pi. V, figs. 18. 19. Calhoun county, Texas), 

 the other characters being unchanged. There are transitions to the 

 normal sculpture of texasiana in some specimens, and we do not think 

 it desirable to distinguish this form at present by a special name. Its 

 distribution must be more fidlv worked out than we have been able to 

 do. CaUioun county is on the Gulf coast near the southern angle of 

 the State. 



P. texasiana hyperolia n. subsp. PI. V, figs. 13 14, 15. 



Shell more depressed than texasiana, glossy, very finely striate, almost 

 smooth, above and below, with several riblets behind the lip-constriction. 

 Uniform brownish-corneous or paler beneath, without a peripheral l^and. 

 Aperture smaller and slightly more oblique than in texasiana. Alt. 4, 

 diam. 9.3 to 10 mm. 



The tj-pe locality is the high land west of Devil's river. This is the 

 common Polygyra along the Rio Grande in Val Verde county, extend- 

 ing north and northwest. The specimens from down the river, at 

 Hidalgo, .... county, and Laredo, Webb county (collected by 

 Singley), are either texasiana or transitional between texasiana and 

 hyperolia in sculpture. At Del Rio, along the Rio San Filipe, Ferriss 

 and I found still the texasiana and transition forms. 



On the high land west of the Devil's river, Val Verde county, we 

 found hyperolia in some numbers, under prostrate Yucca trunks and 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



sometimes concealed in the shelter of the downward-drooping dead 

 leaves on standing Yuccas. From this region they have been washed 

 into the Devil's river, where bleached shells are abundantly foimd in 

 the drift debris. 



We also took specimens in the high land along the Pecos river, near 

 the High Bridge (Viaduct, on some maps), east of the river, and in 

 drift debris in the canyon. 



In the interior counties of Texas we took specimens in the drift of 

 the Hondo river, Medina county, about two miles north of Hondo. 



Much farther northward Mr. Ferriss found hyperolia at Colorado 

 City, Mitchell county, Texas. 



In New Mexico Prof. J. D. Tinsley collected it on South Spring 

 creek, near Roswell, in the Pecos valley, where it occurred fossil in a 

 bed of white marl, three to four feet below the surface. It is not now 

 found Uving in that locaUty. We are indebted to Prof. Cockerell for 

 these specimens.' 



P. t. hyperolia varies about as much as texasiana in size. Specimens 

 from west of Devil's river measure from 3.8x8 mm., with 4^ whorls, 

 to 4.2 X 11 mm., with 5 whorls. 



This variety is not the Helix {Polygyra) tamaulipasensis of Lea, 

 which is typical P. texasiana, as I have ascertained by a comparison 

 of the type kindly made for me by Dr. W. H. Dall. 



Polygyra texasiana texasensis (Pils.). PI. V, figs. 11, 12. 



Polygyra texasensis Pils., Nautilus, XVI, p. 31, July, 1902. 



Similar to P. t. hyperolia in the depressed shape and smooth surface, 

 without riblets above; but decidedly larger, with about 5^ whorls, 

 the umbilicus broader than is usual in the other forms of the species. 



Alt. 5.2, diam. 12.5 mm. 



Alt. 5.8, diam. 12.5 mm. 



Alt. 5.8, diam. 13.7 mm. 



Colorado City, Mitchell county, Te.xas ; types collected by James H. 

 Ferriss in 1902, No. 83,258, A. N. S. PliUa. 



This is a large edition of P. t. hyperolia, and further collections from 

 the almost unknown northwestern half of Texas are needed to deter- 

 mine whether it is really distinct enough from that subspecies to call 

 for recognition of the latter by name. In the large series of hyperolia 

 collected there were, however, no forms as large as texasensis. 



Polygyra mooreana (W. G. Biun). PL V, flgs. 4-10. 



This species stands close to P. texasiana, but the shell is smaller than 



' Reported as P. triodontoides in The Nautilus, XIII, November, 1899, p 84. 

 9 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



any but the smallest texasiana, and with about the same number of 

 whorls (5 to 5^) appears more closely coiled. It is constantly dis- 

 tinct by the elongated cohunellar tubercle within the last whorl (shown 

 in fig. 9). This tubercle seems to be what Binney erroneously describes 

 as "an internal transverse tubercle on the base of the shell" — an ex- 

 pression which would lead one to expect such a structure as that 

 found in the Stenotremas. Binney states that the color is ' ' white, ' ' 

 but fresh shells are brownish-corneous, a little paler and somewhat 

 transparent at the base. The diameter varies from 6.5 to 8 mm. 

 Variation in the degree of elevation is shown in the figures. 



P. mooreana was originally described from Washington county, 

 Texas. We took specimens at Smithville, Bastrop county. San Mar- 

 cos, Hays eoimty, around New Braunfels, Comal county (figs 4-7), 

 and on the Hondo river north of Hondo, Medina county (figs. 8, 9, 10), 

 everywhere in copious quantity. There are also specimens before 

 us from Washington county, Belton, Fort Worth, Waco, Austin and 

 Lee county. Fiu-ther records are given by Mr. Singley in his valuable 

 catalogue. It was taken at Galveston by Ferriss. 

 Polygyra mooreana tholas (W. G. Binn). PI. V, figs, l, 2, 3. 



Larger than mooreana, with the last whorl far more openly coiled 

 below, exposing more of the penultimate whorl in the much wider 

 umbilicus. Specimens from Washington county measure : 



Alt. 5.5, diam. 11, width of umbilicus 4.2 mm.; whorls 7. 



Alt. 4, diam. 8.2. width of umbilicus, 3 mm.; whorls 6. 



This form holds such a relation to P. mooreana as P. d. savvpsoni to 

 P. dorjeuilliana, being very openly coiled beneath, with a deep and 

 very long groove on the last whorl within the umbOicus. The internal 

 ridge is like that of P. mooreana. It seems to be comparatively local in 

 distribution and is certainly rare. We have never seen a fresh specimen. 

 It was described from Washington county, Texas, the locality of the 

 specimens figiu-ed. It is in the collection of the Academy also from 

 Calhoun county. Ferriss took a few specimens at Galveston, and Sing- 

 ley found it in Fort Bend and Brazos counties. \'on Martens reports 

 a worn specimen found by Friedel at ^'era Cruz, ]\Iexico. 

 Polygyra roemeri (I'fr.). 



Smithville, Bastrop count}-, Texas (Ferriss); San Antonio, Bexar 

 county (Pilsbry and Ferriss) ; near New Braunfels, Comal county, one 

 specimen (Pilsbry). 



BULIMULID-ffi. 



The genus Bulimulus in Texas has caused much perplexity to stu- 

 dents. Many and diverse have been the views held as to the rank 




1906.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



and identity of the several forms. Several times since the first visit 

 of one of us to Texas, in the winter of 188-5-86, they have been carefully 

 studied anew, with each time larger materials and better knowledge 

 of the country. To the specimens already in the museum of the 

 Academy about 1,000 were added by oiu- expedition of 1903, from 

 central and western Texas and Indian Territory. 



The series is divisible into two species, B. dealbatus and B. alternatus 

 marice; the fu'st fm-ther split into numerous local races or subspecies. 

 The typical forms of B. alternatus and B. schiedeanus do not, so far 

 as we know, extend into Texan territory; both were described from 

 Mexico where they range over a large area. B. patriarcha W. G. B., 

 unquestionably a form of schiedeanus, was also described from Mexico 

 (Buena Vista), and we have seen no specimen of it from within our 

 borders.* 



In the United States, Bulimulus has not been found west of the 

 neighborhood of El Paso. We know nothing of what forms live in 

 the State northwest of a line 'from Austin to San Antonio, or north of 

 the Southern Pacific Railroad from San Antonio westward to El Paso. 

 Beyond some exteasion of the ranges of B. dealbatus mooreanus and 

 B. alternatus marim, little is to be expected from the great unknown 

 area. 



The following forms are now recognized : 



1. B. dealbatus mooreanus W. G. B., Pfr. Arid region of central and 



south Texas. 



2. B. d. liquabilis Rve. Eastern and southeastern Texas. 



3. B. dealbatus Say. Alabama to Kentucky, west to Kansas. 



4. B. d. ozarkensis P. and F. Northern and western borders of the 



Ozark uplift. 



5. B. d. ragsdalei Pilsbry. Bluffs of Red river and southwestern 



Texas. 



6. B. d. pecosensis P. and F. Southwestern Texas. 



7. B. d. pasonis Pilsbry. El Paso, western Te.xas. 



8. B. alternatus mariw (Albers). Southern Te.xas. 



Of these forms, the anatomy of B. d. mooreanus, B. d. liquxibilis, 

 B. d. ragsdalei, B. d. pecosensis and the Val Verde county race of B. 

 alternatus marice has been examined more or less fuUy. All agree in 

 having a rather short, fusiform penis with a basal sheath which in- 



' We do not mean to deny that the forms mentioned occur in Texas. The coun- 

 ties along the Rio Grande west of tlie mouth of the Pecos are stiU unexplored for 

 shells, and B. schiedeanus especially may turn up in this region. 




132 



PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March , 



eludes the vas deferens; a rather long and slender epiphallus. and a 

 flagellum. An atrium can scarcely be said to be developed, but the 

 vagina is rather long in all the forms. The globular spermatheca is 

 borne on a long duct, which is lightly bound to the oviduct and is 

 usuallj- somewhat swollen near the middle. The right eye-retractor 

 passes between the cJ' and 9 branches, and there is an excessively 

 weak and short penial retractor about 1 mm. from the end of the 

 flagellum, and inserted on the lung floor. 



B. a. marice differs strongly from all forms of B. dealbatus by the 

 great length of the penis with its appendages, and of the duct of the 

 spermatheca. Moreover, the penial organs are longer than the 

 spermathecal duct, while in mooreanus and pecosensis the spermathecal 

 duct is the longer. These differences confirm the opinion, derived 



Fig. .5. — A, Biiliiindu'i a. mariae. B. B. d. Uquabilis. C, B. d. pecosensis. D, 

 penis of a fidly mature individual of same E, B. d. ragsdalei. F, penis of 

 another individual. G, B. d. mooreanus: Fig. D X 2§; the other figures X 2. 



from a study of the shells, that B. altenmtus and dealbatus are well 

 differentiated specifically. 



The measurements of the genitalia in millimeters follows: 




Proceedings of the Arademi/ of Natural Scimeef 

 of Philadelphia, 1006. 



Page 133 — Under heading Length of SpermatJucn with durt. first line 

 of table, change 5 to 50. On last line of table change 1.5 to 15. 





1906.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



133 



B. dealbatus mooreanus (' W. G. B..' Pfr.). PI. VI, figs. 1-e. 



Pi'r., Monographia Hel. Viv., VI, p. 143 (186S). 



Bulinux schiedeanus in part, W. G. Binnej', Terr. Moll., IV, p. 129, pi. 80, fig. S. 

 Bulitnulus schiedeanus var. mooreanus \V. G. Binney, Terr. Moll., V, p. 392, 

 figs. 277, 278; Man. .\mer. Laud SheUs, p. 400, figs. 438, 440. 



The shell is thin, ovate-conic, opaque while above, coffee-with-cream col- 

 ored beloiv the periphery, or .sometimes either white or coffee-tinted 

 throughout ; sometimes varied with a few gray streaks, or some scattered 

 transhicent-gray dots; siu'face smooth, with the spire more or less 

 ■ striate, apical whorls waxen or dark. Umbilicus narrow. Interior 

 cream-white. Five specimens from New Braunfels measure: 



Distribution, eastern division of the Lower Sonoran in Texas. 

 Originally described from ' ' Washington and DeWitt counties, Texas. ' ' 

 Specimens from both of these are before us, and also from Hays, 

 Comal, Guadalupe, Bexar, Medina, Frio, Uvalde and Victoria counties. 

 Some shells from Fort Worth and Waco, in northern Texas, are also 

 like mooreanus, while others resemble B. d. liquahilis. 



B. d. mooreanus is smaller, thinner and smoother than the Mexican 

 B. schiedeanus (Pfr.), but intergrades with B. d. liqvxihilis Rve. through 

 certain specimens having ragged dark streaks, chiefly on the spire, 

 such as fig. 5 of pi. \T. In the main, the subspecies is quite uniform 




134 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



in characters, and easily recognized. It is tlie onlj^ Bidimulus foimd 

 in the greater part of the region it inliabits, and is one of the com- 

 monest forms in collections. 



The specunens seen from Fort Worth are not unlike those referred 

 to B. d. liquabilis from Waco, and it is not easy to decide upon which 

 race they belong to. They are imdifferentiated forms. 



In Comal, Guadalupe, Bexar and Medina counties we found only 

 typical mooreanus. In Frio county the shells are somewhat more 

 solid and often whiter. In a series of 313 specimens from along the 

 Guadalupe river above New Braunfels (pi. VI, figs. 2, 3, 4) I could 

 find but one shell with any of the ragged stripes of B. d. liquabilis. 

 In 165 taken along the river below San Antonio (pi. VI, fig. 1) there 

 were 7 with some ragged stripes, at least on the upper whorls. A 

 series of 55 mooreanus from ^^ictoria had 4 striped shells (pi. VI, figs. 

 5, 6). The percentage of intergrading specimens is therefore small. 



B. dealbatus liquabUis (Reeve). PI. VI, figs. 7-12. 



Bidimus liquabilis Reeve, Conch. Icon., V, pi. 57, fig. 387 (Dec, 1848). 

 Bidimus confinis Reeve, Conch. Icon., V, pi. 86, fig. 643 (Feb., 1850). 

 Bidimulus schiedeanus Pfr., W. G. Binney, Terr. Moll., V, p. 391, fig. 276, but 

 not the description. 



The shell is thin, variable in shape but usually obese, the aperture 

 half the total length or more. Translucent-corneous or brownish- 

 corneous, more or less profusely marked with opaque whitish ragged 

 streaks. Interior whitish or colored like the outside. 



This is the form of the himiid Austroriparian zone in Texas, as B. d. 

 mooreanus is of the arid division. Specimens are before us from the , 

 following counties: Dallas, McLennan, Coryell, Bell, Travis, Lee, Hays, 

 Jackson, Nueces. Al.so from Limestone Gap, Indian Territory. 



Where the range of liquabilis adjoins that of mooreanus there is a 

 belt of overlapping ; but so far as we know the two do not actually occur 

 together. At San Marcos, Hays county, for instance, B. d. liquabilis 

 hves on the moist low alluvimn along the San jNIarcos river, while B. 

 d. maoreanus is found on the Cretaceous limestone hUls above the town. 

 It seems that the one form extends finger-like up some of the streams, 

 while the other may occupy intervening upland or calcareous stations. 



B. liquabilis and B. confinis were both described from "Texas." 



B. d. liquabilis differs from mooreanus by the predonunance of 

 corneous-brown coloring. It is also usually more globose and less 

 smooth. It is more globose than B. dealbatus, with less convex 

 whorls, as a general rule, yet there seem.s to be practically complete 

 intergradation between the races, and some Texas shells are not dis- 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



tingiiishable from those of Alabama, though most others could not 

 be matched from east of the Mississippi. On the whole, the race 

 has intimate relations to those east and west of it, yet seems in its 

 own area to be sufficiently differentiated to be recognized. 



Specimens from Jackson county (collected by J. D. Mitchell) are 

 typicai of liquabilis. They are small (pi. VI, figs. 9, 10, 11), well striped 

 as usual , variable in the length of the spire, and generally have a strong, 

 narrow lip-rib. 



mm. 



Shells from Lee county (J. A. Singley), are larger, more globose, cor- 

 responding to Reeve's B. confinis. The corneoas-brown tint largely 

 predominates over the reduced whitish streaks. Lip-rib present in 

 adults (pi. VI, fig. 12). 



Waco specimens mostly have the spire longer, as do those from 

 Belton, Austin and San Marcos. In the series from the latter locaUty 

 (Ferriss and Pilsbry, 1903) there are about equal numbers of typical 

 striped shells and nearly unicolored corneous-brown ones, with indis- 

 tinct whitish streaks alternating with pale reddish on the spire (pi. 

 VI, figs. 7, 8). They measure: 



The genitalia of one of the unicolored shells are figured (fig. B). 

 The individual supplying the preparation was that shown in fig. 7 of 

 plate VI. Fig. 8 of the plate, a streaked shell, was foimd similar 

 anatomically. Judging by these shells, the race liquabilis is quite 

 appreciably different from mooreanus in the proportions of the geni- 

 talia. 



Some specimens from Limestone Gap, Indian Territory, evidently 

 belong to this race. 




136 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March ■ 



The shells figured by Binney as B. schiedeanus {Manual of American 

 Land Shells, p. 399, fig. 437) are apparently B. d. liquabilis. They are 

 certainly not the true schiedeanus, of which figures may be found in 

 the Manual of Conchology. 

 Bulimnlns dealbatus (Say). Pl.VI, fig. 13. 



Helix dealbata Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., II, p. 159, 1821. 



Say gave the localities "Missoiu-i and Alabama." His specimens 

 in the Academy Museum are labelled Alabama. One of these three, 

 agreeing with the dimensions given by him, is figured (pi. VI, fig. 13), 

 as the type of the species. The Alabama form has a globose last whorl 

 and rather large umbilicus. The aperture is a little more than half 

 the total length of the shell, but much less than the diameter of the 

 shell. The shell is profusely striped with ragged white stripes on a pale 

 brownish ground. The type measures, alt. 19.4, diam. 12.2, length of 

 aperture 10.6 nam. 



The same form occiu-s in Tennessee, Kentucky (Warren county), 

 and west to Kansas (Shawnee county). Some specimens from the 

 humid portion of Texas also seem to belong here. 



B. d. ozarkensig n. subsp. PI. VI. flg. 14, 15. 



B. dealbatus Say, Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1903, p. 204 (Seligman, Mo.). 

 On the northern and western borders of the Ozark uplift this form 

 has been differentiated. The whole shell, and especially the last 

 whorl, is narrower, the aperture is smaller, ordinarily half the total 

 length or less, and the umbilicus is narrower. The shape is about that 

 of B. d. ragsdalei; but the last whorl is not rib-striate, though the 

 spire is weakly so. Coloration as in dealbatus. Specimens measure: 



Distribution, northern and western outliers of the Ozark system: 

 Mammoth Spring, Fulton county, Arkansas; Sehgman, Barry county, 

 southwestern Missouri (fig. 14); Rogers, Benton county, Arkansas 

 (fig. 15) ; Limestone Gap, Choctaw Nation, Indian Territory. 




1906.] N.\TDR.\L SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



While only weakly characterized, this form seeins to range over a 

 considerable area, and apparently deserves recognition by name. 



B. dealbatus ragsdalei (Pils ). PI. VI, figs. 16, 17. 



Nautilus, III, p. 122; Man. of Conch., XI, p. 129. 

 The shell varies from the ovate shape of typical dealbatus to a more 

 lengthened and slender form, and is conspicuously rib-striate, the striae 

 white on a tawnj' or white-blotched ground and weaker on the base of 

 the shell. The hp-rib is strongly developed. Three adult specimens 

 of the type lot measure: 



Only dead, more or less bleached shells have been taken from the 

 top of the Red river bluff at the southern end of Warren's Bend, 

 twenty-five miles northwest of Gainesville, Cooke county, and a mile 

 north of St. Jo, Montague coimty, Texas. 



Across the whole State of Texas nearly 400 miles distant, this form 

 reappears on the Rio Grande river, in Val Verde count}', in an area 

 inhabited also by B. alternatu.s tnariae. We are quite imable to find any 

 constant differences between these Southwestern shells and the Red 

 river types, although the apparent absence of the form in the inter- 

 vening territory suggests that the similar forms of the two areas are 

 independent parallel modifications of dealbatus stocks, rather than 

 actually connected genetically. Yet it is quite possible that the 

 widely sundered colonies have been or still are connected through 

 the great conchologicaUy unknown area northwest of the oblique Une 

 across the State marking the limit of our explorations. Dead, bleached 

 shells were found in abimdance on the high land west of Devil's 

 river, but the Uving ones for some time eluded \is. Finally we found 

 them hidden under the dead reversed leaves which thatch the trunks 

 of Yuccas, and sometimes under prostrate dead Yuccas — retreats they 

 share with the smooth race of Polygyra texasiana (pi. VI, figs. 18 to 

 22). The proportions vary a good deal, a series of adult shells 

 measuring : 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



The average size of 78 living shells is about 19 x 9 to 10 mm. Fig. 

 18 represents the largest shell taken, a dead one 26.5 mm. long. There 

 is but little variation in sculpture among shells from this place. 



Along the Rio San Filipe, not far from the Rio Grande, in chapparal 

 on the east side, we found nmnerous specimens differing from those 

 of Devil's river by having the rib-strise nearly obsolete on the last 

 whorl except just below the suture. A large number of dead shells 

 were found, but only very few living ones (pi. VI, figs. 23, 24). They 

 have the dull reddish, white-streaked coloration and the shape of the 

 Devil's river ragsdalei. 



Balimulus dealbatus peoosensis n. subsp. PI. VI, figs. 2f>, 27. 



B. d. schiedeanus var., Pilsbry, Man. of Conch., XI, p. 132, pi. 17, fig. 6. 

 The shell is conspicuously calcareous, whitish with some fleshy or 

 sometimes corneous or ochraceous streaks ; upper whorls striate, the 

 last somewhat roughened by irregular growth-wrinkles. Spire long, 

 composed of numerous short convex whorls, the sutiu-e nearly hori- 

 zontal; apex white or pale; aperture small, usually ochre-tinted in 

 the throat, lip strengthened by a rib within. 



Type locality, on the mesa about \h miles southeast of the eastern 

 end of the High Bridge of the Pecos (Southern Pacific Railroad), Val 

 Verde county, Texas. We found one small colony of this form, in the 

 midst of the large dark-mouthed B. alternatus mariee, and like that 

 chiefly living on Agave. The extent of the colony was perhaps not 

 more than 50 yards, but as the sun had already set, and we had just 

 emerged from the laljyrinthine side canyons of the Pecos, we had 

 time to collect only about thirty-five si^ecimens, each, most of them 

 dead. Everywhere else in the region around the High Bridge we 

 found only B. a. marice. 



This form is clearly a stunted race of the larger and less slender 

 B. schiedeanus of the Mexican fauna. B. schiedeanus has been con- 

 sidered specifically distinct from dealbatus by Binney and all the older 

 authorities, as well as by von Martens, who gives a series of good 

 figures in the Biologia Centrali Americana; but while the typical 

 schiedeanus is distinct enough, there are not lacking specimens sug- 

 gesting intergradation with some forms of dealbatus. If schiedeanus 




1906.] NATTJHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



be retained a.? a distinct species, then the race pecosensis will be rele- 

 gated to it 35 a variety. 



Some specimens of pecosensi^ taken about thirty years ago by Dr. 

 H. C. Wood, probably, as he informs me. from somewhere in the 

 "Great Bend" of the Rio Grande, were noticed in the Manual of 

 Conchology. \o\. XI. 



Bulimulus dealbatus pasonis Pils. PI. VI, fig. 25 

 Pikbry, Nautilus, XVI, July 1902, p. 32. 

 The shell is smaller and more slender than any other form of deal- 

 batus, the diameter about half, the aperture less than half the total 

 length of the shell: nearly smooth, being sculptured with irregular 

 growth-WTinkle-s only. . The dead specimens are dull reddish-corneous 

 with some streaks and mottling of opaque white. WTiork 5f to 6, 

 quite convex. Aperture small, ovate, the insertions of the lip and 

 columella markedly approaching, without an internal lip-rib in the 

 specimens seen. Umbilicus comparatively large. 



Alt. 15.7 15.3 nmi. 



Diam. 7.5 7.S " 



Aperture 6.8 6.7 " 



Franklin mountain, near El Paso, Texas. (J. H. Ferriss.) 

 Thisis the most distinct, as it is the most remote, of the races of B. 

 dealbahis. and unless connecting forms come to light, it may well be 

 given specific rank. The absence of regular striation on the spire, 

 the converging ends of the Up and the diminutive size combine to give 

 it individualit}-. As j'et but few specimens have been found, and in 

 a single place. Some individuals of the ^'al Verde county B. d. 

 ragsdalei apjiroach pasonis in size, but in a series of about 200 examined 

 none approach the other characters of the present race. 



Bulimulus alternatus mariae (Albers). PI. VII. 

 Die Heliceen, p. 162 (1850). 



Binney. Terr. Moll., V, p. 390, figs. 272, 273. pi. li a, upper and lower figs.; 

 pi. li 6, all figs. 



This species is recognized by its dense, solid, calcareous texture, 

 oblong shape and colored, usually dark brown or pm-plish interior, 

 and b}- the great length of the penis and spermathecal duct. Its range 

 extends in a wide belt along the Rio Grande, from the Gulf at least to 

 the Pecos river. How much farther west we do not know. 



B. marice was named by Albers for his daughter Mary, ha^■ing been 

 recognized as distinct on her birthday. The type, figured by Pfeiffer, 

 is a ragged-striped sheU with only a low prominence, hardly to be called 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



a tooth, on the columella. Shells of this exact form and coloring^occiir 

 at Laredo. Webb county, on the Rio Grande (pi. VII, fig. 28). 



In a general way, the eastern (typical) form of marioe from Frio 

 county and Laredo eastward differs from the western (Val Verde 

 county) form in several respects: 



Southeastern Form. Western Form. 



Smaller, more oblong; lip more Larger, more conic ; lip less thick- 

 thickened; columella frequent- ened within; no columellar 

 ly toothed; often with ragged tooth; often streaked, but with- 

 streaks, at least on the earUer out ragged or mottled streaks, 

 whorls. PI. VII, lower three PI. VII, upper two lines of 

 lines of figures. figures. 



We do not think it advisable at present to make a subspecific separa- 

 tion, especialh' since none of the names proposed apply to the western 

 race. The genitalia of this race are figured (fig. A). 



While almost every colony of the eastern race has slight peculiarities 

 in shape, relative abimdance or absence of the several color-forms, etc., 

 yet with large series the intergradation is seen to be so complete that 

 we can find no groimd for dividing them into several races, as Prof. 

 Cockerell proposes. His plan {Journal de Conchyliologie. 1891, pp. 23, 

 24) is as follows : 



1. With gray or brownish markings: 



a. Without a columellar tooth alternatus Say. 



b. Columellar tooth present, marice Alh. 



2. Without color markings : 



a. With no columellar tooth, albidus Taylor. 



b. A columellar tooth, . . MnneyanusFiT.Mi^.W. G. B.[=in- 



termedius Singl., Ckll., Corpus Christi.] 



The true B. alternatus (type in coll. A. N. S.) has not been found 

 north of the Rio Grande, and in all probability does not reach our 

 limits. The name binneyamis is preoccupied, so that were the race 

 vahd, we should use for that form the name intermedms Singley MS. 

 Ckll., based on Corpus Christi shells. The type locality of albidus 

 Taylor MS. Ckll. is Derby, Frio county, Texas. 



Many perfectly adult Corpus Christi shells have no colmnellar tooth, 

 and hence we should have to divide them between intermedius and 

 albidus. Similarly, various specimens selected from the Derby, Frio 

 county, series before me would be either alternatus, albidus or inter- 

 medius ; while from the Hidalgo series, aU f oiu- of the supposed varieties 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



may be selected. The study of good series of shells taken at random 

 and not selected shows that all lots of streaked shells are more or less 

 mingled with white ones, and in colonies of toothed shells, fully adult 

 and old individuals may be found without a tooth. On the other hand 

 there seem, however, to be colonies without ragged-streaked individuals, 

 and also communities in which no toothed shells are to be foimd. 



Perhaps the colonies containing mottle-streaked or toothed individ- 

 uals are mixed or hybrid communities. It is a case where experiments 

 on Mendelian lines by some one on the ground might be productive of 

 valuable results. 



In illustration of the foregoing remarks, a few of the colonies repre- 

 sented in the collection of the Academy may be noticed in more detail. 

 In studying these races it is absolutely essential that the snails be col- 

 lected alive. The colors, particularly of the interior, are evanescent 

 and fade quickly on exposiue to the sun and weather, though they 

 change very little if at all in the museum. 



Corpus Christi, Nueces county (pi. VII, figs. 13, 14, 15, 16), collected 

 by J. A. Singley. Of thick-set compact contoiu-, strong, with a thick 

 cream-tinted lip-rib, which is sometimes brown stained. Pinkish 

 white, almost uniform with some very inconspicuous grayish or fleshy 

 streaks. Not one in a lot of 43 is marked with brown streaks outside. 

 Interior varying from pale yelloiu to reddish brown, the darker tint 

 exceptional. Columella varying from strongly toothed to nearly 

 straight. Wliorls 6, the earliest post-embryonic not distinctly striated. 

 This form is the "binneyanus Pfr. " of Biimey, intermedius Singley 

 MSS. of Cockerell. 



Alt. 



Diam. 



Apertm'e 



At Hidalgo, Hidalgo county (pi. VH, figs. 17, 18, 19), the shells are 

 more slender, white, rarely streaked throughout (fig. 17), but almost all 

 of a series of 41 are variegated on the earlier whorls (fig. 18). Some 

 are strongly toothed, but most shells have no columellar tooth. 

 Interior brown. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



At Derby, Frio county (pi. VII, figs. 20, 21, 22, 23, 24), the shells are 

 bluish white with bluish streaks, a few brown tinted with brown 

 streaks. The columellar tooth is small or wanting. This form has 

 been called albidus Taylor, Ckll. 



At Laredo, Webb county (pi. VII, lower line of figs.), the shells are 

 large and mostly long. The lot consists of pure white, and of coffee- 

 tinted, brown-streaked shells, with all intermediate forms. A colu- 

 mellar tooth is exceptionally developed. 



At Del Rio, Val Verde county (pi. VII, figs. 9, 10, 11, 12), we found a 

 more conic race. The shells are white, often with some very faint 

 grayish streaks. Interior varying from ochre-yellow to dark brown. 

 In the series of about sixty living shells before us, none has mottled 

 markings, and while in a few there is a weak indication of the colu- 

 mellar tooth, it is as a rule absent. The larger ones measure 29 to 33 

 nrni. long, 16 wide. Some of the dead shells found in the same place 

 are larger, 35 x 18.5 to 37 x 17 mm. A single albino was taken alive 

 (fig. 12). These shells are from the plain along the San Filipe river, 

 on the east side, not far from the Rio Grande. B. d. ragsdalci was 

 found in the same place. 



On the mesa west of Devil's river we found large dead shells like those 

 from Del Rio but even larger, often with a low limip on the parietal 

 wall, but no tooth on the columella. 39 x 20.5 to 35 x 16 mm. 



At the Pecos High Bridge, on agaves, north of the railroad near the 

 eastern end of the bridge, we found Bidimuhis abundant and finely 

 developed (pi. VII, figs. 1 to 7). The shape varies, but is always more 

 conic than in the eastern localities. It is either nearly uniform white, 

 or coffee-tinted varied with oblique brown or pm-plish streaks; these 

 two color-forms in about equal numbers, found together on the same 

 plants and connected by intermediate examples. Apex white. The 

 interior is very dark purple-brown. The outer lip is usually but little 

 thickened within, and the columella has no tooth, though often it 

 is slightly salient in the middle. Whorls 7 to 7^. 



Alt. 36 37.5 33.3 34.5 36 33.3 37 mm. 



Diam. 19 19 17 17 17 



Aperture 17.S 17.S 16 16 16 



The last two measurements show the extremes of shape in a series of 

 150 Uving specimens (No. 84,627 A. N. S.). 



Another set from east of the Pecos canyon about a mile from the 

 Rio Grande is similar. The largest one measures, alt. 38, diam. 20.3, 

 aperture 19 mm. (pi. VII, fig. 8). 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



OLEACINID^. 



Euglandina singleyana (W- (■■ Einn.). 



Glandina singleyana W. G. B., Fourth Supplement Terr. Moll., V, p. 163 



(1891). 

 Singley, Contrib. Nat. Hist. Texas, p. 302. 



Sinking Spring, near San Marcos, Hays county, Texas, young speci- 

 mens only; New Braunfels, Comal county, and its environs; San 

 Antonio, Bexar county; Hondo river drift, near Hondo, Medina coimty, 

 and in the canyon of the Pecos at High Bridge, Yal Verde county. 

 The last locality is the extreme southwestern point known for the 

 species. Mr. Singley reports it also from Guadalupe, Goliad, Gon- 

 zales, Travis, Caldwell and Frio counties. 



PtTPrLLID.ffl. 

 Pupilla musoornm (L.). 

 Benson, Arizona. 



Pnpilla blandi (Morse). 



Texas: Flood debris of Guadalupe river, about four miles above 

 .New Braunfels, Comal county. 



New Mexico: Pecos river drift at Pecos (Ckll.). 



The occurrence of this species near New Braunfels is anomalous; 

 that place lies far below its normal zone, and the shortness of the 

 Guadalupe river precludes the idea that it could ha^•e drifted any great 

 distance. Mr. Singley also found one specimen at or near the same 

 place. 

 Pupilla hebes (Ano). 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 589, pi. 22, figs. 9, 10. 



Huachuca mountains, Cochise county, Arizona. Two out of about 

 a dozen specimens are sinistral. They are readily separable from the 

 sinistral P. syngenes by the absence of a crest behind the outer lip. 

 Pupoides marginatus (Say). 



In Texas we took this species at San Marcos, Hays county; New 

 Braunfels, Comal county; Hondo river, Medina county, and near the 

 Rio Grantle at Del Rio, Devil's river four miles from mouth, and drift 

 of Pecos river near High Bridge, Val Verde county. 



Arizona : Drift of San Pedro river at Benson. 

 Bifidaria pellucida hordeacella (His). 



Texas: Drift of Sinking Spring, San Marcos, Hays county; CJuada- 

 lupe river about four miles above New Braunfels, Comal comity; 

 Hondo river, two miles north of Hondo, Medina county; Rio San 

 Filipe near Del Rio, Devil's river near its mouth, and Pecos river near 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



the High Bridge, all in Val Verde county. .•Vi-izona: Benson. New 

 Mexico: Drift of Pecos river at Peco.s (Ckll.). 



It varies somewhat widely in size, and is found in great quantity 

 in drift debris along all the Texan rivers explored. 



Bifidaria pelluoida parvidens (Sterki). 



Drift debris of Pecos river at Pecos, New Mexico (Ckll.). This sub- 

 species has not before been reported from so far east. 

 Bifidaria procera (Gld.). 



Texas: Drift of Sinking Spring, San Marcos; Hondo river drift, two 

 miles north of Hondo, Medina county. 



The var. cristata Pils. and Van. was found copiously in the drift of 

 Guadalupe river, Comal county; near Del Rio; Devil's river; and Pecos 

 river near the High Bridge, Val Verde county. Also Benson, Arizona. 



Bifidaria contraota (Say). 



Texas: San Marcos; Guadalupe river drift, near New Braunfels; 

 Hondo river, near Hondo; Rio San Filipe near Del Rio; Devil's river; 

 Pecos river near High Bridge. Rather abimdant in the river debris 

 except on the Pecos, where but three shells were found. In 1885' 

 Pilsbrv took specimens at Galveston. 



Bifidaria armifera (Say). 



Texas: Drift of Guadalupe river four miles above New Braunfels, 

 Comal county ; Pecos river near High Bridge. New Mexico : Pecos, on 

 the Pecos river, collected by T. D. A. CockereU. 



Bifidaria pentodon (Say). 



Texas: Sinking Spring, San Marcos, Hays county; Hondo river, 

 Medina county. 



Vanatta has figured one of the specimens from San Marcos. Nau- 

 tilus, XIX, pi. 6, fig. 11. 

 Bifidaria tappaniana (C. B. Ad.) 



Pupa pentodon of authors, not of Say. 



Texas: Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braunfels, 

 Comal county (figured by Vanatta, Nautilus, XIX, pi. 6, fig. 12); 

 Hondo river, Medina county ; Devil's river, ^'al \'erde county. 



Bifidaria perversa Stt-rki. 



Drift debris of the San Pedro river at Benson, Arizona (Ferriss, 

 1904). Hitherto known from Nogales, Arizona. (E. H. Ashmtm.) 



Bifidaria ashmnni Sterki. 



Huachuca mountains, Cochise county, Arizona (J. H. Ferriss.) 

 Also from the following places, collected by E. H. Ashmun. .\rizona: 




1906.]! NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



Near Jerome at Mescal Gulch, Walnut Gulch, Page's ranch, Kirwagen's 

 ranch, and drift of Verde river ; Navajo Springs ; Santa Rita mountains ; 

 Oak Creek at Owensby's; drift of Little Colorado river at Holbrook; 

 Nogales, both north and south of the international boundary. New 

 Mexico: Mountain station, Oscura mountaias, Socorro county; San 

 Rafael, Valencia county; White Oaks, Lincoln county. 



Subgenus CHjENAXIS nov. 



The shell has a large hollow axis, open below, and about one-third 

 the total diameter of the shell, the structure otherwise being like 

 Bifidaria s. str.; peristome continuous and free. Type, B. tuba. 



The Bolivian Infundibularia injundibulijormis (Orb.)' resembles B. 

 tuba in having a very large umbilicus, and we at first thought to asso- 

 ciate the Arizonian species with it; but [nfundibularia differs bj' the 

 strictly conic shell, and in the aperture, which shows but one lamella, 

 a very large angulo-parietal. Other lamelloe or plicse, if they exist, 

 must be very deeply immersed, as in the group Immersidens. 



The type of d'Orbigny's species has been lost, and its internal 

 structiu-e is unknown. It was found with Bifidaria nodosaria (Orb.), 

 a minute species, imperfectly described and figured, but probably not 

 distinct from B. pellucida (Pfr.). 

 Bifidaria taba n sp- Fig- ••• 



Shell cylindric with a short apical cone, openb/ umbilicate, the um- 

 bihcus nearly one-third the diameter of the shell, penetrating well- 

 like to the apex. Pale brown, smooth, with light growth-lines only. 

 Wiorls 5i, convex, the apex obtuse; last three whorls forming the 

 cylindrical part of the shell. The last whorl is compressed around the 

 umbilicus, and scarcely straightened in front. The aperture is short- 

 oval, the peristome continuous, thin and well expanded. The angular 

 and parietal lamellae are combined into one long lamella, notched on 

 the summit; where the two join, the inner end of the angular projects 

 a little on the right side. The coliuiiellar lamella is massive, slightly 

 bifid, deeply placed, and enters about as deeply as the parietal. 

 There are small, short, upper and lower palatal and basal folds, in the 

 typical positions, a short distance within the lip, usually with a minute 

 denticle between them, and another at the base. 



Length 3, diam. 1.5 mm. 



Drift debris of the San Pedro river, Benson, Cochise county, Arizona. 

 Types No. 87,062 A. N. S. Phila. ; cotypes in Ferriss collection. A 



'Voyage dans I'Amerique M6ndionale, MoUusques, p. 323, pi. 41 bis, fig. 7-10. 

 10 




146 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMl' OF 



[March. 



Fig. 6. 



single immature specimen was taken by Rev. E. H. Ashmim in drift 



of the Sah- river, at Tempe, Arizona. 

 Remarkable for its ample umbilicus. The freshest specimens are 

 about the color of Pupoides marginatus. None 

 were taken alive. In the adult shell opened 

 (fig. 6) the parietal and cohmiellar lamellre do 

 not enter deeply, though they go so far that the 

 inner end cannot be seen in the mouth. One 

 broken shell from Tempe, taken by Mr. Ashmun, 

 and which has been in coll. A. N. S. P. for some 

 years, has a strong lamella on the columella, ap- 

 parently at least a half-whorl long, but not pene- 

 trating much farther than fig. 7 shows. This 

 lamella may perhaps be developed during the 

 latter part of the neanic stage, to be resorbed 

 in the fully adult condition. Further material 



is needed to demonstrate this. It is possible that the Tempe shell 



represents a distinct species. It tapers slightly more than the types 



from Benson. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Vertigo ovata Say- 

 Benson, .\rizona: Drift of Devil's river, Val Verde county, Texas. 



Vertigo binneyana Sterkl. 



Benson, Arizona (Ferriss). 



Vertigo oscariana Sterkl. 



Drift debris of the Guadalupe river, about four miles above New 

 Braunfels, Texas, a single specimen, a little larger and stronger than 

 Eastern (Austroriparian) examples. 

 Vertigo milium Glil. 



San JIarcos, Hays coimty; Guadalupe river above New Braunfels. 

 Comal county, and on the Hondo river, iledina county, Texas, in 

 flood debris. Only one specimen from each place, among thousands 

 of other Pupillidct, etc. 



Strobilops labyrinthica texasiana n- subsp. 



Shell moderately elevated with dome-shaped spire, brown, whorls 

 5^, the first H smooth, pale-corneous, the rest regularly ribbed 

 obliquely, the last whorl rounded peripherally or a trifle and obtusely 

 subangular in front, the riblets passing over undiminished upon the 

 base, which is as strongly sculptiu-ed as the upper surface (or sometimes 

 smoothish just in front of the aperture). Aperture with expanded, 

 thickened peristome and strong parietal callus, a single strong parietal 

 lamella emerging to the edge of the callas, a second weak one visible 

 within. About haK a whorl inward there is a series of about six laminte , 

 the imier one upon the columella, the next short, strong and tongue- 

 shaped, bending outward ; the third nearly twice as long, high and 

 sinuous; the fourth very minute and low, often wanting, leaving a 

 space; the fifth and sixth long and low; and just above the periphery 

 on the outer wall a very weak, low, long seventh plica ma\' usually be 

 traced. Umbilicus rather large. 



Alt. 1.5, diam. 2.2 mm. 



Typ&s No. 91,330 A. N. S. Phila., from drift of the Guadalupe 

 river about fom- rmles above New BraimfeLs, collected by Pilsbry and 

 Ferriss, 1903. Other localities in Texas are Austin (PUsbry), San 

 Marcos (Pilsbry and Ferriss), New Braunfels (Ferriss, Pilsbiy and Sing- 

 ley), Guadalupe river bottom, Victoria coimty, and Lavaca river, 

 Jackson county (J. D. Mitchell), Lee count}^ (Singley), Calhoun countj^ 

 (E. W. Hubbard), Gainesville (J. B. Quintard). A smaller form, diam. 

 2 mm., was taken in drift d6bris of the Hondo river about two miles 

 north of Hondo, Medina county (Ferriss and Pilsbry). It also ranges 

 northward into Indian Territorv and to Kansas. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



This form, which for the present we subordinate to the old »5. labij- 

 rinthica, is the only Strobilops except <S. hubbardi which I have seen 

 from Texas. It may be distinguished from S. virgo by the costnlate 

 base, wider umbilicus and far weaker inner parietal lamella. S. 

 strebeli is a much more depressed cone. 



The statement by Woodward/" copied into American works, that 

 H. labyrinthica occurs in pretertiary Eiu-opean strata, is misleading, 

 since the American species is reaUy not identical with any from Euro- 

 pean strata, though there are numerous allied forms in the European 

 tertiaries. The genus became extinct in Europe, but survives in China, 

 Helix diodontina Heude being a Strobilops. In America it has not been 

 found in the Northwest or Pacific States, but extends south to Mexico, 

 the West Indies and Venezuela, and a species apparently belonging to 

 the genus has been described from the Galapagos, 



VALLONIIDiE. 

 Vallonia excentrioa Sterki. 



Galveston, under boards in a vacant lot. (Pilsbry, December, 1885.) 



Vallonia perspeotiva Sterki. 



Texas : Drift debris of Devil's river, and of Pecos river near the High 

 Bridge, Val Verde county. .Arizona: Benson, in drift of San Pedro 

 river. 



Vallonia graoilioosta Reinh. 



New Mexico: Drift of Pecos river, at Pecos (Cockerell!). 

 Vallonia cyolophorella Anc. 



Arizona: Drift of San Pedro river, Benson, Cochise county, a single 

 specimen. 



COCHLICOPID,ffi. 



Shell oblong, cylindric-oblong or narrowly tapering, smooth and 

 glossy, with imperforate axis ; aperture ovate or acuminate, the columella 

 notched below or continuous with the basal lip. Foot ■without pedal 

 grooves. Kidney with direct ureter, of the Basommatophorous type. 

 Genitalia with a long appendix on the penis, as in Achatinella and the 

 Pupillidae. Jaw and radula about as in Pupillidm. 



This group has usually been included in the Achatinidm or Stenogy- 

 ridae, but the direct ureter removes it to a group of primitive snails 

 represented only by minute species in America, but by the beautiful 

 Achatinellida and Parhdidce in Polynesia. Coecilianella (Cecilioides) 



'» Manual of the Mollusca, p. 2S6, edit. 2, 1868. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



belongs to the same family, and probably GZessw/a also, but the pallial 

 organs of that Indian genus are unknown. The group is not related to 

 the Achalinidce. 



Coohlioopa Inbrioa (Miill.). 



Bear Park and C^ave creek canyon, Chiricahua mountains, and Fort 

 Bowie (Ferriss); Carr canyon, Huachuca mountains (Dr. H. Skin- 

 ner); all in Cochise county, Arizona. Drift debris of Pecos river, 

 Pecos, New Mexico (Ckll.). 



ZONITID^. 



OmphaUna extends to the western border of the Austroriparian 

 area in Texas. The form taken by us wOl be discussed in the conclud- 

 ing paper on Southwestern moUusks. 



Zonitoides minnsonla (Binn.i. 



Texas: San Marcos, New Braunfels, near Hondo, Del Rio, Devil's 

 river and Pecos river. Everywhere common in drift debris. The 

 specimens all show a tendency to be more widely umbilicate than 

 typical Northern minuscula, a large part of them being tj^pical Z. m. 

 alachuana (Dall). Those from San Marcos and Comal county are of 

 the size of Northern minuscula, but westward the shells reach a decid- 

 edly larger size, with the exception of the lot taken at Devil's river, 

 which show but little tendency towards a wide umbiUcus. 



In Arizona, Ferriss took specimens of var. alachuana at Bear Park 

 and Cave creek canyon, Chiricahua mountains, in the drift of San 

 Pedro river at Benson, and in the Huachucas. Like other minutise, 

 these shells are very rare in the Chiricahua and Huachuca mountains. 



Helix mauriniana C)rb., from Cuba, which has been put in the 

 synonymy of minuscula, seems to be a Thysanophora close to or 

 identical with T. saxicola (Pfr.), as Arango has already stated. Z. 

 minuscula occurs also in Japan. 



Zonitoides minnsoala neomesioana Pils and Ckll. 



This form is distinguished by the possession of minute and shallow 

 spiral striation. It seems to be of somewhat common occm-rence in 

 New Mexico, and upon examining a set of seven specimens taken by 

 me in Galveston in 1885 I find that they are similarly sculptiu-ed. 

 They came from under boards in a lumber yard, and it may be that 

 they were brought from New Mexico with lumber, though I do not 

 know that any lumber was shipped from New Mexico twenty years 

 ago. 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March. 



Zonitoides singleyana (Pil^.). 



Zonites singleyanus Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1SS9, p. 84; 1888, pi. 17, fig. 



M. (New Braunfels). 

 Hyalinia Icsriuscvla Sterki, Nautilus, VI, p. 53, Sept., 1S92 (New Braunfels). 



Texas: San Marcos, New Braunfels, Del Rio, Devil's river and Pecos 



river above the High Bridge; everywhere in river debris. 



Arizona: Drift of San Pedro river at Benson. 



Zonitoides nummus Vanatta, 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1899, p. .524, figs. (New Braunfels). 

 This species seems to be confined to the Texan Lower Sonoran. We 

 took it at San Marcos, Hays county; Guadalupe river above New 

 Braunfels; Hondo river, Medina county; and in Val Verde county 

 near Del Rio; along the Devil's river, and in the Pecos canyon above 

 the High Bridge; ever\'-where in drift debris. 



Zonitoides arborea (Say). 



Texas: Galveston; Smithville, Bastrop county; Sinking Spring, near 

 San Marcos, Hays county; near New Braunfels, Comal county. 

 New Mexico: Drift of Pecos river at Pecos (Cockerell). 

 Arizona: Cave creek canyon and Bear Park, Chiricahua mountains, 



Cochise coimty. 



Vitrea indentata (Saj-). 



Drift of Pecos river, Pecos, New Mexico (Ckll.). As usual, it is the 

 Canadian and Carolinian form of the species which extends down the 

 Rocky mountains into New Mexico, and not the Sonoran subspecies. 



Vitrea indentata ■umbilioata ('Singl.,' Ckll). 

 Ckll., Nautilus, XII, p. 120, Feb., 1899. 



Texas: San Marcos, Hays county; around New Braunfels, Comal 

 county; Hondo river two miles north of Hondo, Medina county; Del 

 Rio, DevO's river and Pecos river at the High Bridge, Val Verde county; 

 Alpine, Brewster county, 



Arizona: Cave creek canyon and Bear Park, Chiricahua mountains; 

 Fort Bowie. Also Florida mountains. Grant county. New Mexico. 

 Large specimens of this race are probably what has been reported from 

 Texas as scidptilis Bid., — a species which does not, we believe, occur in 

 that State. 



This Sonoran race differs from indentata by its distinctly perforate 

 axis and larger average size, yet the perforation varies so much in 

 size in specimens from the Carolinian zone that I would not myself 

 have named the Southwestern form. The name is ill-chosen, since the 

 shells are not ' ' umbilicate, ' ' as that term is technically used, but ' ' per- 

 forate. ' ' 




1906. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



151 



Vitrea hammonis (Strom). 



Drift of the Pecos river at Pecos, New Mexico (Cockerell). The 

 specimens scarely show a trace of spiral lines. The species is unknown 

 in the Austroriparian and Lower Sonoran zones. 



Vitrea dalliana roemeri n. subsp. Fig. 8. 



8hell openly umbilicate, the width (5f umbilicus contained about 

 4 J times in the diameter of the shell, pale whitish-corneous, in general 

 shape resembling V. dalliana, V. ivheatleyi and V. petrophila. Sculp- 

 ture of very close and regular radial grooves, on the last whorl of large 

 specimens becoming crowded and less regular, giving a striate appear- 

 ance. The flat intervals between the grooves show no spiral striae. 

 The base is nearly smooth. Wliorls 4^, but slightly convex, slowly 

 widening, the last about double the width of the preceding. Suture 

 scarcely impre.ssed, translucent-margined below. Base convex. Aper- 

 ture hmate, slightly oblique ; the insertions of the peristome are distant. 



Alt. 2, diam. 4 mm.; umbilicus .85 mm.; aperture 1.7 x 1.65 mm. 



Fig. 8. — Vitrea dalliana roemeri. 



Sinking Spring creek, near San Marcos, Hays county, Texas. Tyjies 

 No. 91,318, A. N. S. PhUa., collected by PQsbry and Ferriss, 1903. 

 Also taken in several places around New Braunfels, Comal county; in 

 the drift debris of the Hondo river, two miles north of Hondo, Medina 

 county; in drift of the Rio San Filipe near Del Rio, and of the Devil's 

 river, Val Verde county. It has about the distribution of Holospira 

 goldfussi and Helicodiscus eigenmanni. 



This very pretty little species has a slightly more ample umbilicus 

 than V. wheatleyi or petrophila, and the sculpture is closer and more 

 regular than in either. The last whorl, in dorsal view, is wider than 

 in V. wheatleyi. It is much smaller than V. hammonis. 



V. dalliana roemeri attains a larger size than the Floridian V. dalliana 

 and the shells have somewhat more regular and crowded grooves on 




152 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



Fig. 9.—V. daUiana. 



the last whorl; it is less depressed, and the apertiu-e is perceptibly less 

 broad, more roundly lunat«. The differences seem sufficient to call for 

 subspecific separation. The Texan and Floridian areas of distribution 

 seem to be separated, so far as our present data 

 indicates. V. dalliana should be looked for along 

 the northern border of the Gulf. It is known now 

 from peninsular Florida only. 



Vitrea dalliana " and roemeri are much smaller 

 than T'. hanimonis. and seem to replace that in the 

 Austroriparian and Lower Sonoran zones. When 

 originaUy described it was compared with Zonitoides 

 arborea (Saj'), but it is not really related to that but 

 to the hammonis group. In fact V. hammonis, 

 binneyana and daUiana form a group of very closely 

 related species. In a large nmiiber of V. dalliarui 

 examined from several localities, the largest shell 

 measures, alt. 1.6, diam. 3.2, width of umbilicus 

 .75, aperture 1.4 mm. wide, 1.2 high. This shell, 

 from Osprey, Manatee coimty, Fla., is here figured. 

 The figiu-es do not represent the fine and beautiful sculpture of the 

 surface. 



Titrea milinm meiidionalie o. subsp. 



Similar to V. milium but larger, diam. about 1.75 mm., with nearly 

 3^ whorls, the first one finely, distinctly Urate spirally, the last whorl 

 with oblique wrinkles much coarser than in milium, more or less an- 

 astomosing, and fine spiral striae, the latter distinct on the base. 



V. milium with the same number of whorls is smaller and more 

 finely wrinkled, and in Maine and Ohio shells spirals on the first 

 whorl are excessively weak or wanting, not deeply engraved to the 

 tip, as in Texas shells. 



Texas: San Marcos, in drift of Sinking creek, in the limestone hills; 

 along the Guadalupe river above New Braunfels (tj^je locahty); 

 Hondo river, Medina county ; drift of Pecos river. (Pilsbry and Ferriss.) 



New Mexico: Cloudcroft, Sacramento mountains (Viereck); Santa 

 Yi (Ashmun). 



Arizona: Huachuca mountains (Ferriss); Walnut Gulch near Jer- 

 ome (Ashmim). 



Specimens from Baldwin and Clarke counties, Ala. (C. B. Moore), 



" Zonites dallianus Simpson, Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. PhUa., 1889, p. 83, pi. 3, 

 figs. 9-11. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



seem to be referable to this race. In the Northwest another form 

 of the species, Z. milium pugetensis Dall, replaces the tj^ical milium. 

 Neither of the subspecies differs much from miliuvi, but what differ- 

 entiation there is seems to be correlated with geographic range. 



This species was erroneously placed in Zonitoides in the Classified 

 Catalogue of 1898. We are now convinced that it belongs, as Morse 

 demonstrated", to the subgenus Striatura of Vitrea. 



Vitrina alaskana Di'H- 



V. pfeifferi Newc, Proe. Cal. Acad., II, p. 92, 1861 ; not of Deshayes, 18.52. 

 Vitrina alaskana DaU, Land and Fresh-Water MoUusca of Alaska and Ad- 

 joining Regions, Harriman Alaska E.xped., XIII, p. 37. 



Arizona: Huachuca mountains (Ferriss), numerous rather small 

 specimens, the only ones we have seen from .\rizona. It seems to be a 

 common species of the Canadian and Transition zones eastward, speci- 

 mens being before us from the following places in New Mexico: Chi- 

 corico canyon near Raton (Cockerell) ; Las Huastus canyon, Sandia 

 mountains, near Albuquerque (iMiss Maud EUis) ; near Las Vegas (Miss 

 Mary Cooper); White Oaks and Gilmore's Ranch, Sierra Blauca (Ash- 

 mun); Fort Wingate (Dr. E. Palmer); James canyon, Cloudcroft, 

 Sacramento mountains (H. L. Viereck). 



The type locality of V. alaskana is Carson valley, Nevada; but it 

 has a wide range, from Alaska to the Mexican boundary and probably 

 beyond, southward occurring only at high elevations. 



Enaonalns falvns (MuU.). 



Drift of Pecos river, Pecos, New Mexico (Cockerell). Cave creek 

 canyon, Cochise county, Arizona (Ferriss). 



Eaoonnlns ohersinas troohnlus (Reinb.). 

 Nautilus, XII, p. 116. 

 Texas: Sinking Spring, San Marcos, Hays county; New BraunfeLs 

 and vicinity, Comal county; Hondo river, north of Hondo, Medina 

 county; Rio San FUipe near Del Rio, and Devil's river, Val Verde 

 covmty; everywhere in drift debris. 



BNDODONTID.a!. 

 Fyramidula oronkliitei anthonyi Pilsbry, ii. n. 



Hdix striatella Anthony, Boston Journ. of Nat. Hist., Ill, p. 278. pi. 3. fig. 2' 

 1840. Not Helix striatella Rang, 1831. 



This shell, well known under the preoccupied name H. striatella 

 Anth., has typically a rounded periphery and moderately developed 

 oblique and sigmoid rib-stria, 4 or 5 in the space of a mm. on the 

 front of the last whorl at the periphery. There are 3J to 3f whorls. 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Alt. 2.7, diam. 5.25 mm. Type locality, Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, 

 near "Strawberry Mansion," No. 68,899, A. N. S. P., collected by E. G. 

 Vanatta. 



In ray opinion the widespread Eastern race is not specifically dis- 

 tinct from Heli.r cronkhitei Newc, of northern California, etc., of which 

 specimens from Dr. Newcomb are before me, lint it evidently requires 

 separation as a subspecies. 



Arizona: Chiricahua mountains, Cochise county, at Fort Bowie, 

 Bear Park and Cave creek canyon (Ferriss) ; Carr canyon, Huachuca 

 mountains (H. Skinner). 



New Mexico: Drift of Pecos river at Pecos (Ckll.). 



Te.xas : In 1885 I dug a single specimen of this species from the bank 

 of Comal creek, New Braunfels, where it occiu-red with several other 

 land and fresh-water shells. Singley reports it from the Pleistocene 

 of Sv/isher county. It is not known to occur living in Texas, or any- 

 where in the Austroriparian zone. Its occurrence in the Texan Pleisto- 

 cene is anomalous, like the presence of Pupilla blandi at New Braunfels. 



KADIODISCTJS Pilsbry, n. sen. 



Minute, discoidal, openly umbilicate Patuloid snails with the first 

 H whorls minutely engraved spirally, the rest of the shell densely radi- 

 ally costulate; aperture lunate, but slightly oblique and as high as 

 wide. Type, R. 7nillecostatus. 



This genus is proposed for a group of tiny PjTamidula-like snails, 

 various members of which have been found in Arizona, Mexico and 

 South America as far south as Patagonia. In the spiral sculpture of 

 the embryonic whorls these shells are like Helicodisats ; in shape and 

 size they resemble Planogyra, but in that the embryonic shell is smooth. 

 There are also some similar Polynesian forms, referred to Charopa, etc. 



In the Endodontidce, where small differences in the .shell characterize 

 extensive series of species, it seems desirable to recognize as of generic 

 value such readily recognizable groups as Radiodiscus. The species 

 are chiefly distinguished by their dimensions and the degree of fineness 

 of the sculpture. There are several undescribed forms in the collection 

 of the Academy. 

 Kadiodisous millecostatus n. sp. Fig. 10. 



Shell very small, disk-shaped, chestnut-brown, the first whorl bluish- 

 white. Wl^orls 3f , slowly widening, separated by a very deep, chan- 

 nelled suture. The first whorl projects a httle, and is microscopically 

 striate spiraUy, the rest of the whorls are radially very densely costu- 

 late, the riblets nearly straight, delicate and much narrower than 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



their intervals, and about 21 in number in a millimeter measured at the 

 jieriphery, in the front of the last whorl. The last whorl is rounded 

 throughout. The luubilicus is widely open, its width containetl about 

 three times in the diameter of the shell. The aperture is slightly 

 oblique and deeply lunate. Alt. 1.1, diam. 2 mm.; diam. of lunbUicus 

 .6 to .7 mm. 



Huachuca mountains, Cochise county, Arizona, (J. H. Ferriss); Carr 

 canyon (Dr. Henry Skinner). Also in the State of ilichoacan, Mexico, 

 at Patzcuaro and Morelia (S. N. Rhoads, 1899). 



(®V %J^-;^ 



iig. lU. 



This tiny Patidoitl, of a group new to our fauna, is one of the 

 most interesting recent finds. It is related to R. hermanni {Helix 

 hcrmanni Pfr.), of central and eastern Mexico, but that species is 

 larger and more coarsely sculptured. The two species occur together 

 at the Mexican localities mentioned above, but are readily separable. 

 Dr. Hemy Skinner found one broken specimen of R. miUccoslatus in 

 Carr canyon, Huachucas. 



Geuus HELICODISCUS Morse. 



This genus has hitherto lieen considered to include two species, 

 lineatus (Say) and fimbriatus Wetherby. The accessions of Southwest- 

 ern material show that several other forms must be recognized. The 

 species are not very conspicuously differentiated, and young shells by 

 themselves are not always readily placed; yet with adults we find no 

 difficulty. The salient characters of the forms follow: 



a. — Diam. of shell 3 to 3.5 mm., whorls 4 to 4^; teeth almost always 

 present. Eastern United States, . . . H. parallelus (Say). 



a'. — Diam. of shell 4.5 to 5 mm., whorls 4J to 5^; often deficient in 

 teeth. 

 b. — Spiral striae obsolete. Idaho. . . H. salmonensis (Hemph.). 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



b^. — Spiral striae well developed, subeqiial; last whorl not deflexed 

 at aperture. 



c. — Umbilicus very wide; last whorl narrow, aperture very 

 small. Arizona and New Mexico, 



H. e. arizonensis n. subsp. 

 c*. — Umbilicus smaller, more cup-shaped, last whorl wider. 



Texas, H. eigenmanni Pils. 



b-. — Spirals coarse, some of them more conspicuous, with a cutic- 

 ular fringe ; last whorl in fully adult shells abruptly deflexed 

 in front. East Tennessee, North Georgia, H. fimbriatus Weth. 



Helioodisous parallelus (Say). PI. VIII, figs. 7, 8. 9, 10. 



Helix Kneata Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., I, p. IS (1817"); II, p. 373. 



Not Helix lineata Olivi, Zool. Adriatico, p. 177 (1792). 

 Planorbis aralkllus Say, Journ. A. N. S. Phila., II, p. 164, (1821), corrected 



to parallellus in the Index, p. 407. (Upper Mi.ssouri.) 

 Helicodiscus lineatus Morse. Journ. Portland Soc, I, p. 25, figs. 61, 62, pi. 



2, fig. 3; pi. 7, fig. 63 (1864). Binney, Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 75. 



Tills common species has been well described by Binney and others. 

 It has ordinarily four whorls, but there may be as many as 4J in excep- 

 tionally large shells. At least one pair of tubercular teeth may be 

 seen in most specimens. Shells of maximum size measure: 



Alt. 1.3, diam. 3.5 mm. (Grand Rapids, Mich.) 



Alt. 1.25, diam. 3 mm. (Philadelphia.) 



The t)rpical form of H. parallelus is before me from localities in 

 Ontario, Maine, ilassachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, 

 Pennsylvania. Maryland , District of Columbia, Virginia, North Carolina, 

 Ohio, Michigan, Minnesota, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Tennessee, 

 Alabama, Florida, Missouri, Kansas, Arkansas, Indian Territory. 



I have not seen Texan specimens of typical lineatus, but it doubtless 

 occiu's in northern and eastern parts of the State. 



In New Mexico, at Pecos, Las Vegas, Mesilla, Sandia mountains and 

 other places, and in the Pecos river canyon near its mouth, Val Verde 

 county, Texas, there is a form of H. pai-allelus with rather weak, 

 sparse spirals, the intervals more distinctly striate radially than in ty^iical 

 parallelus. This seems to be a form of the southeastern Rocky moun- 

 tains and southward to the Rio Grande, occupying territory between 

 the ranges of H. eigen?nanni and H. arizonensis, with some overlapping 

 on the territory of the latter. 



Say's first name, Helix lineata, was preoccupied, but his Planorbis 

 parallelus applies to the same species. In the text of the Journal the 

 first letter of the name did not print up, but the space in place of it 

 shows that it had been there, and the p is correctly supplied in the 

 index. The t}ipe used in that vohmie of the Journal was old and full 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



of ' ' bad letters. ' ' All authorities agree that such obvious typograph- 

 ical errors should be corrected. 

 Helioodisous eigenmanni Pils. PI. VIII, figs 1, 2, 3. 



Nautilus, XIV, p. 41. August, 1900 (Beaver cave, near San Marcos, Texas). 



This fine species is easily recognized by its large size, the shell in 

 all stages of growth being very much more robust than H. parallelus. It 

 is sculptured with numerous spiral threads as in H. parallelus, and 

 when fresh is pale yellow. Alt. 2, diam. 5 mm., with 5^ whorls. 



We took specimens in the drift debris of Sinking creek at San Mar- 

 cos, Hays county; on the Guadalupe river above New Braiuifels, 

 Comal county; on the Hondo river, Medina coimty, and in the drift 

 of Devil's river, Val Verde county; Alpine, Brewster county. I have 

 seen specimens also from Calhoun county (Hubbard), Lee county 

 (Singley), and Navidad river bottom, Jackson county (J. D. Mitchell). 

 It has not been reported from any place out of Texas, and seems to 

 have about the same distribution as Holospira goldfussi. 

 Helioodisous eigenmanni arizonensis "■ subsp. PI. VIII, figs. 4, 5, 6. 



Shell larger than //. parallelus with 4i to nearly 5^ whorls, the spire 

 flat or convex, the umbilicus wider than in parallelus or eigenmanni. 

 Surface closely and strongly lirulate spirally. Aperture oblique, lunate, 

 very small. 



Alt. 2, diam. 5 mm., whorls 5^. (Fort Bowie.) 



Alt. 1.5, diam. 4.6 mm., whorls 4J. (Cave creek canyon.) 



Aj-izona : Fort Bowie (tj'pe locality) ; Bear Park and Cave creek 

 canyon, Chiricahua mountains; Huachuca mountains (Ferriss); Santa 

 Rita mountains (Ashmun). New Mexico: Florida mountains. Grant 

 county (Ferriss) ; Bland, Sandoval county (Ashmun) ; debris of Arroyo 

 Pecos at Las Vegas (CkU.). 



Readily distinguished from H. parallelus when mature by the greater 

 size, with wider umbilicus, more whorls and proportionately smaller 

 mouth. Some specimens are two-toothed. H. eigenmanni has a 

 smaller umbilicus, whorls of markedly greater calibre and a larger 

 aperture. 



Helioodisous salmonensis (Hemphill). 



Helicodiscus fimbriatiis \\'etherbv (sahnonacca Hemphill), W. G. Binney, 



Third Supplement txj Terr. MoU., V, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., XIX, No. 4, 



p. 189 (May, 1890). 

 Helicodiscus fimbriatus va,v. sabtionensis Hemphill, in Binney, t. c, p. 220 



(May, 1890). 

 Helicodiscus fimbriatus Wetherb}-, var. sulmonaceus Hemphill, Binney, 



Fourth Supplement, BuU. Mus. Comp. ZooL, XXII, No. 4, p. 177, pi. 3, 



fig. 8. 



Distinguished by the absence of spiral striae, according to Hemphill. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



I have not seen specimens. Mr. Binney in his first note considers the 

 Salmon river form identical with what Mr. Simpson reported as H. 

 fimbriatus from Indian Territory, and gives no separate or definite 

 description of it, though he mentions that Hemphill had given the 

 (MSS.) name "salinonacea." The figure of one of the original speci- 

 mens, given in Binney's Fomih Supplement, represents a shell with 

 wide umbilicus and small aperture, like H. arizonensis, from which it 

 differs, according to published information, by the smoother surface, 

 arizonensis being constantly very well sculptiu'ed. 



Punotum pygmaeum (Drap.). 



San Marcos, Hays county; Comal county; Hondo river, Medina 

 county; Devil's river, Val Verde county. 



The form in this region is .slightly larger than northeastern speci- 

 mens, and is more strongly sculptured. There are barely four whorls, 

 the first H smooth, the next striate; the last two whorls have strise 

 at regular intervals much larger, with about six fine strise in each space, 

 and the basal spirals are very distinct. This sculptm-e reminds one 

 of the west coast forms, conspectum, pasadence and californicum, which 

 however are decidedly larger and coarser shells of a dark brown color. 



SUCCINEID^. 

 Suooinea lateola G\d. 



Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. N. H., Ill, p. 37, June, 1848 (Te.xas) ; Terr. MoU., 

 II, p. 7.5, pi. 67e, fig. 1. (Florida; Texas, especially Galveston.) Bin- 

 ney, Terr. Moll., V, p. 419; Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 441. 



Succine.a lexasimia Pfr., Monogr., II, 526; Roemer's Texa,s, p. 456, 1849 

 (Galveston). 



Succinea lutescens Sowerbj"^, Conchologia leonica, XVIII, pi. 10, fig. 67 o, 6, 

 1872 (Texas). 



We took specimens in Texas along the Guadalupe river above New 

 Braunfels, Comal county; San Antonio, Be.xar county; near Hondo 

 river about two miles north of Hondo, Medina county, and in Val 

 Verde county at Del Rio, high land west of Devil's river, and in the 

 canyon of the Pecos near the High Bridge. 



In Gould's original description the only locality given was Texas. 

 In the Terrestrial MoUvsks he states "found in Florida, and more 

 abundantly in Texas, especially in the region of Galveston." Speci- 

 mens collected at Galveston by the author in 1885 agree perfectly 

 with Gould's figures, and that place may be taken to be the type 

 locality. I have seen no Florida shells which I would refer with cer- 

 tainty to lutcola, though »'>>. floridana is closely related. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



Snocinea concordialis Rid- Figs. 11. 12. 



Gould, in Terr. Moll. U. S.. II, p. 82 (Lake Concordia). Binnev, Terr. 



MoU. U. S., V, p. 419: Man. .\mer. Land Shells, p. 441. 

 Succinea forxhet/i Lea. Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 1S64, p. 109; Obs. Gen. Unio 



XI, 134 (Rutem-ille, Texas). 

 Succinea haleana Lea, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1864, p. 109 (Alexandria, La.). 

 Succinea halei Lea, Obs., XI, 136 (n. n. for S. haleana). 



Distribution. GiUf State.? from Florida to the Rio Grande, on mud 

 or herbage near the water's edge. Common from Louisiana west- 

 ward, probabh' rare and local eastward. 



The tj'pe locality, Lake Concordia, is not in Texas, as Gould and 

 Binney supposed, but in Louisiana. The lake is an abandoned ox- 

 bow of the Mississippi river, opposite Naches, Mississippi. Some of Lea's 

 original lot of S. halei (haleana) before me show that to be merely the 

 young of concorcltalis. S. forsheyi Lea, of which two cot^'pes are in 

 the Philadelphia collection, is surely identical with concordialis. 



An adequate knowledge of the distribution of S. concordialis east- 

 ward awaits further exploration of the Gulf coastal peneplain, which 

 in Mississippi. Alabama, Georgia and Florida has been very imper- 

 fectly examined for land molhusks. I have not seen S. wilsoni Lea, 

 described from Darien, Ga., the figure of which looks a good deal like 

 concordialis, though it seems to be less swollen basaUy. Specimens col- 

 lected by Mr. A. A. Hinldey at Cypress creek, .•ya., in 1895 are evi- 

 dently concordialis; and a set of veiA^ pale shells, corneous instead of 

 amber-colored, before me from Mayport, Florida, collected by M. A. 

 Mitchell about twent}- years ago, seems to agree with concordialis in 

 everything but color. Northward it extends to Frierson (L. S. Frier- 

 son) and Baj^ou Pierre (George Williamson), in northwestern Louisiana, 

 the specimens from these places being rather small. The species must 

 also extend in a long lobe up the Mississippi and its tributaries, for 

 typical specimens have lately been sent by ^Ir. A. A. Hinkley from 

 Dubois. Illinois, and by Mr. T. Van H3'ning from Des Moines, Iowa. ilr. 

 Van Hj'ning notes that ' ' the animal is black with small yellow dots. ' ' 

 These Northern shells may be distinguished from S. retusa by their 

 pot-bellied figure and reddi.sh apex. 



In Texas, sppcimens were taken by us in April at San Marcos, Ha^-s 

 county; New Braunfels, Comal county; San Antonio, Bexar count}^; 

 along the Rio Grande near and San Filipe river, at Del Rio, and along 

 the Devil's river, \"al \'erde count}'. We have seen it also from Lee 

 county (Singley) and Spring creek, Victoria county (.J. D. Mitchell). 



It lives on the moist earth immediately adjacent to the water's 

 edge, and where found is usually abundant. It is a thin shell, rather 




160 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



deeply amber-colored, with the apical whorls darker, reddish-orange. 

 Whorls 3i, the last deeply descending, somewhat flattened above, 

 very convex basally, having thus a more sack-like contour than S. 

 retusa ; this being its chief peculiarity. The sculpture consists of rather 

 coarse wrinkles and often some indistinct spiral impressions on the 

 last whorl. The aperture is symmetrically ovate, the columella con- 

 cave throughout, with a delicate fold above. Large specimens from 

 San Marcos measure: 



Length 16.8, diam. 9, length of aperture 11.5, width 6.7 mm. 



Length 16, diam. 8, length of aperture 10. .5, width 6 mm. 



The mantle is intensely black, dappled throughout in the last whorl 

 with rounded yellowish spots. Those above the kidney are brighter, 

 more conspicuous and usually larger, often more or less confluent. 



Fig. 11. 



Fig. 12. 



Towards the edge of the mantle the spots are large and lengthened. 

 The foot including head and eye-stalks is pale grayish-white, speckled 

 with irregular grayish-black spots. The sole is pale yellow. Figs. 

 11 and 12 were drawn from specimens taken at San Marcos, Texas, 

 near the river. 



Specimens from the Rio Grande and Devil's river are of almost as 

 large size; but in some situations it is much smaller, a set from along 

 the San Filipe river at Del Rio measuring, length 12, diam. 6.7, length 

 of aperture 8 mm. Those taken at San Antonio and New Braunfels 

 are also of small size. Such variation in size is apparently not racial, 

 but dependent upon local conditions of the food supply, etc. The 

 color and markings of the mantle are substantially the same in all 

 colonies we found, though there is individual variation in the size of 

 the light spots, figure 12 representing one of the darker individuals. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



Sucoinea grosvenori Lea. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1.S64. p. 109 (Santa Rita Valley, Kansas?, and Alex- 

 andria, Louisiana) : Obs. Gen. I'nio. etc.. XI, p. 1.3.5, pi. 24, fig. 108. 



5. mooresiana Lea, Proc. A. X. S. Phila.. 1864, p. 109 (Court House Rock, 

 Platte river, on the California route) ; Obs., XI. p. 136. pi. 24, fig. 109. 



S. Ihienta W. G. Binnev, Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 1857, p. 19; Man. Amer. Land 

 Shells, p. 174. 



This species is characterized l;)y its ^'er^• full, rounded whorls and 

 irregular sculpture, often with traces of spiral lines, though as frequently 

 without them. Having part of the original specimens of the above 

 sj'nonyms before us, we are convinced that the three supposed species 

 cannot be separated, although one would hardly expect the same form 

 to range from the lower Mississippi to and throughout the arid great 

 plains and the mountain region of Colorado and New ilexico. 



Succinea greerii Tryon. described from ^'icksburg, Mississippi, is a 

 little less swollen, with the suture not quite so deep, but it is doubtful 

 whether the slight differences shown by the lot of eight specimens 

 will prove constant. 



The species belongs to the catnpestris group. 



We took a few sjjecimens of .S. grosvenori at San Antonio, Te.xas, with 

 S. concordialis and a large form of »S. avara. 

 Sucoinea avara Say. 



Texas: San Marcos. Hoys county; Comal count}-; >San Antonio, 

 Bexar county; Devil's river, "\'al ^'erde county. Arizona: Benson, 

 Cochise county. 



AURICULID^. 

 Caryohium exile H. C. Lea. 



San Marcos, Hays county; New Braunfels, Comal county; Hondo 

 river, Medina county, and Devil's river. Val \'erde county, Texas. 

 Common in drift debris. 



Caryohium exiguum iSay). 



Drift of Hondo river, Medina county; of Devil's riter, Ya\ ^'erde 

 count}'-, and of Guadalupe river, Comal county, Texas. 



LYMN^ID^. 

 Lymnsea columella Say. 



New Braunfels, Comal county, Texas. A single .slender specimen. 

 Lymnaea desidiosa Say. 



Texas: San Marcos, Hays county; New Braunfels, Comal county; 

 San Antonio, Bexar county ; Rio San Filipe, Val Verde county. 



Lymnsea humilis Say. 



Guadalupe river, Comal county, Te.x;as. 

 11 




162 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



Lymnaea bulimoides oockerelli n. subsp. Figs. 13-17. 



Shell subglobo.se, pale yellowi.sh-corneous, conipo.sed of 4^ convex 

 whorls which are finely striate but without spiral lines or malleation. 

 Spire very short, la.st whorl and aperture very large. Aperture short- 

 ovate, its length three-fifths to two-thirds that of the shell. Columella 

 broatUy expanded, not folded. Umbilicus large. 



Fig. 13. 



Fig. 14. 



Fig. 1.5. 



16. 



Fig. 17 



New Mexico : Las Vegas (type locality, Miss Mary Cooper), and in the 

 charcoal zone of the Pleistocene of Arroyo Pecos (T. D. A. Cockerell) ; 

 near Farmington (George H. Pepper) ; Acama (Dr. E. Palmer) . Colorado : 

 Pool southeast of Denver (J. D. Putnam). Nebraska: Ogalalla (C. T. 

 Simpson). Dakota: Lake Hermann (P. C. Truman). 



Fig. 19. 



This form differs from L. bulimoides and L. techella by its more glo- 

 bose shape and shorter spire, and so far as we have seen is readily separ- 

 able from l;)oth. Figs. 13-15 represent the types from Las 'X'egas ; 16, 17 

 are larger shells from Farmington, sent by ilr. George H. Clapji. 



L. bulimoides sonomaensis Hemphill, from Sonoma county, California, 

 approaches cockerelli, but differs by the more rapidly expanding last 




1906. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



163 



whorl, narrower flat columella and narrower umbilicus, which is like 

 that of typical bulimoides. A specimen measures, alt. 10, diani. 7.7, 

 aperture 7.2 mm. (figs. 18, 19). 

 Lymnsea bulimoides teohella (Hald.). Figs. 20-23. 



Limncea techella Hald., Amer. Journ. of Conch., Ill, p. 194, pi. 6, fig. 4. 

 (Texas.) 



Shell obese, with acutely conic spire, of five or six convex whorls; 

 pale yellowish or light brown, finelj- striate and usually malleated, 

 the flattened facets obliciueh' descending. Last whorl verj' ventricose, 

 umbilicus large. Apertiu^e short-ovate, about three-fifths the total 

 length; basal lip expanded, columdlar lip broadly dilated, without a 

 fold. Umbilicus large. 



Fiff. 20. 



Fig. 21. 



Fiac. 



Fi?. 23. 



In the area under consideration we have seen specimens from the 

 following places: 



Texas : Fort Worth (Sampson) ; Royse, Rockwall count}- (Ragsdale) ; 

 Dallas (E. Hall); Houston (Pilsbry); San Marcos, Haj-s county 

 (Pilsbry and Ferriss); mouth of Nueces river (Singley). 



New ilexico: Albuquerque, and McCarty, A'alencia county (Ash- 

 mun) ; Rio Grande at Mesilla (Cockerell). 



Arizona: Salt river at Tempe (Ashmun). 



Other records could probably be suppUed from the literature, but 

 it seems usually to have been referred to as L. bulimoides. Figs. 20-22 

 represent specimens from .San ]\Iarcos. Hays covmt}-, Texas; fig. 23 is 

 a more malleate shell from Salt river, Tempe, Ai-izona. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Maicll, 



The young of one season liaA'e a comparati^•ely shorter spire than 

 old shells, the rate of descent of the suture progressively increasing 

 somewhat. As usual, there are only traces of malleation at this stage. 

 The erosion of the apices in all but one of the type lot (as mentioned 

 by Haldeman) makes them shorter than they would otherwise be, 

 giving much the appearance of L. b. cockerelli. Aljiuidant series from 

 Houston and San Marcos collected by Pilsbry, with others from ^"arious 

 naturalists, demonstrate the identity of Haldeman's shells with the 

 larger-spired adult form figured above. L. techella was formerly con- 

 sidered by one of us to be a synonym or race of L. cubensis Pfr., and 

 L. bulimoides was treated as a \-ariety of the same species. They are cer- 

 tainly very similar, but cubensis has a more triangular and less broadly 

 developed cohmiellar expansion; and in view of the waj' Lymncea is 

 being split uji into species and races, it may be best to retain the several 

 forms as distinct species or races until the subject can be taken up with 

 ample material and time for the study of Antillean and llexican forms 

 together with our own. 



Planorbis trivolvis Say. 



Specimens referable to typical P. trirolris were taken in Comal county, 

 and at Del Rio, Devil's river and the Pecos river, ^'al Verde county, 

 Texas, 



Planorbis bicarinatus Say. 



Guadalujie river, Comal county, Texas; abundant and t3'i3ical, 



Planorbis earns n. sp. PI. IX, figs, i, 5, 



Shell discoidal, biconcave, the spiral on the left side slightly more 

 sunken and narrower than on the right. Whorls 3^, convex, the last 

 round peripheral!}^ and on both sides, curving more abruptly into the 

 concavity on the left side. Sculpture of close, very regular obliquely 

 radial rounded strice separated by slightly narrower deep grooves. Pale 

 brown in color. Aperture but slightly oblique, heart-shaped, peristome 

 thin, acute, a trifle dilated at its insertions. Diam. 3.3, alt. (thickness) 

 1 mm. 



"Sinking Spring" near San Marcos, Hays county, Texas; Guada- 

 lupe ri^■er about four miles above New Braimfels, Comal coimty. Rio 

 San Filipe and Devil's river, and canyon of the Pecos river about a mile 

 above the High Bridge, Val Verde county ; everywhere in drift debris. 

 Types from the last locality. 



This little Planorbis is very distinct Ijy its beautiful sculpture, con- 

 stant in numerous specimens from five rivers in central and western 

 Texas. It is much more abundant in the Rio Grande drainage than 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



in Ha}-s and Comal counties. It is about the size of P. parvus, but 

 the aperture is less oblique and the sculptiu-e differs. It was found 

 with parrus in Comal county and in the Pecos canyon. 



Planorbis filooinotus n. sp. PI. IX, figs. 1, 2. 3. 



Shell very small, biconcave, the spiral narrower and more deeply 

 sunken on the left than on the right side. WHiorls about 2f , the last 

 broadh' rounded peripheralh", rounded also on both sides, but less 

 convex on the right than on the left side. Sculpture of inconspicuous 

 growth-lines and numerous thread-like spiral striae. Color of bleached 

 specimens white or faintly yellowish. Aperture oblique, heart-shaped, 

 about as long as wide, excised moderately by the preceding whorl. 



Greatest diam. of the disk 2.4, alt. (thickness) nearly 1 mm. 



San Pedro river, Benson, Arizona, in drift debris. Tj-pes collected 

 by J. H. Ferriss, 1904. 



This little species may be at once recognized by its spiral striation, 

 which is far stronger than in any other North American species. It is 

 flattened less than P. parvus. Only five specimens were taken, but 

 it is so unlike other known Mexican or United States Planorbes that 

 there seems no doubt of its specific distinctness. 



Planorbis parvus Say. 



Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braiuifels, Comal 

 county; Devil's river, Val \'erde county, Texas. San Pedro river, 

 Benson, Arizona. 



Planorbis oultratus Orb. 



Pilsbry, Xautilus, III, p. 63, pi. 1, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



This species is thin and delicate, very acutely carinate at the periphery 

 which is close to the left side. In 1889 one of us report erl it from Hidalgo, 

 Texas, where it was taken by Mr. Singley. In 190.3 we took a single 

 j'oung shell in the drift debris of Devil's river, Xal Verde coimtv. The 

 young have a much less acute keel, in fact are angular rather than 

 carinate, and they are less compressed in proportion. P. cultratus is 

 foimd also in Florida (collected at Jliami by S. N. Rhoads), Central 

 America and the West Iniiies. Few of the specimens thus far known 

 from Texas are fully mature or in good condition. 



Planorbis liebmanni Dkr. 



Canal at Now Orleans, Louisiana (H. Hemphill !). In Texas at Waco 

 (Hemphill), Austin (E. HaU), San Marcos, New Braunfels, Hondo 

 river, Del Rio, De^•i^s river and Pecos river (Ferriss and Pilsbry) ; also 

 in the southeastern part of the state in \'ictoria county (J. D. Mitchell) 

 and near Brownsville, Cameron count}' (Clapp). Also in Mexico. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mlirch, 



Well-grown specimens have a diameter of 9 to 10 mm., with about 

 5 whorls. 



Segmentina obstructa (Morel.). 



Except for the teeth, this species is not distinguishable from Plan- 

 orbis licbmanni Dkr. It does not, however, attain quite so large a size, 

 the largest we have seen measuring slightly less than 9 mm. diameter. 

 The teeth are found in very young shells also ; but never more than one 

 set is present at any stage of growth, so far as seen. Specimens are 

 before us from the following places, all in Texas : 



Austin (E. Hall); San Marcos, Hays county; New Braunfels, Comal 

 county; Hondo river north of Hondo, Medina county (Pilsbry and 

 Ferriss) ; Brownsville, Cameron county (sent by G. H. Clapp) ; Hidalgo, 

 Hidalgo county (Singley); Rio San Filipe, Devil's river and Pecos 

 river, Val A^erde county (Ferriss and Pilsbry). 



It has also a wide range in Mexico. 



The genus Segmentina. was based Tipon the European species ^. 

 nitida Miill. This is a very glossy, flattened shell with acutely angular 

 periphery, simple thin lip, deeply embracing whorls, and barriers com- 

 posed of three laminse (parietal, basal and upper) transverse to the 

 whorl, leaving a narrow, three-branched space between them. 



In eastern Asia a modification of this type is found in such species 

 as S. largillierti (Phil.), forming the subgenus PolypyUs Pils. The 

 shell is less compressed and not carinate, but glossy with deeply 

 clasping whorls. The parietal lamina is obliquely transverse, the 

 others transverse, basal long, a shorter one in the outer wall, and one 

 or two in the upper margin. There are several or many barriers. 



The American forms, subgenus Planorhula Hald., have less smooth 

 and much less compressed shells, the whorls only slightly clasping, 

 often angular or subangular on the right side l)ut rounded peripherally. 

 There are six laminae: a sigmoid, obliquely entering parietal with a 

 small tubercular denticle near its lower or left end ; a transverse basal ; 

 an obliquely entering outer lamina with a transverse one above it, and 

 a small entering lamina in the upper margin. 



In S. armigera the entering lamella in the outer margin curves up- 

 ward slightly at its inner end. In S. whcatleyi all of the lamince are 

 much more strongly developed, and the entering outer one is much 

 longer, running up in a long ciu^ve behind the transverse lamina above 

 it. The structures are, however, fundamentally identical in the two 

 species. 



In the Antillean and Mexican group to which .S'. obstructa belongs 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



167 



the whorls are rounded, the parietal laminte are a.s in Planorbida ex- 

 cept that the larger one stands more obliqueh', the basal lamina i 

 transverse, but all the rest on the outer wall are entering plicae, the larger 

 lower one curving downuxird a little at its inner end. not upward as in 

 armigera and icheatleyi. As in all American forms of the genus only 

 one set of laminae seems to be present in any individual, though the 

 earliest set is formed at a ^■ery early age. In the European and 

 Asiatic species several sets are usually present. 



PLEUROCERATID^. 

 Gonlobasis comalensis Pilsbry. Figs. 24-2S. 



Melania rufa Lea?, Romer, Texas, p. 4.57 ("In den Quellen de.s Conial- 



Spring bei Xew Brauiifels sehr hiiufig"). 

 Melania pleuristriata Say, A. G. Weatherby [^Vetherbyl American Naturalist, 



April, 1878, p. 254, with var. mnrmocki (springs nf southwestern Texas). 

 Goniobasis C07nalensis Pils., Xautilus, IV, p. 49, Sept., 1890 (Comal creek, 



Xew Braiinfels) . 

 G. pleuristriata Sav and G. comalensis Pils., Single/, Contrib. Xat. Hist. 



Texas, Geol. Surv. Tex. Ann. Rep., 1892, pp. 311, "312. 



Shell conic-turrite, thin but strong, covered with an olive-brown 

 cuticle. 'Uliorls of the spire with a distinct keel which projects a 

 short distance above the suture, and is usuallv wanting on the last two 



Fig. 24. 



Fig. 2.5. 



Fig. 26 



Fig. 28. 



whorls; the whole surface showing fine sigmoid growth-striie. and in the 

 best specimens very faint, minute, spiral striae. Aperture ovate, the outer 

 lip thin, sigmoid, retracted below the upper insertion; basal lip rounded 

 or subangular. Columella arcuate, somewhat thickened. "Wliorls 

 about 7 in the most perfect shells, but usually fewer, the upper ones 

 being eroded. 



Length IS, diam. 7.3, aperture 7.3 mm. 



Comal ci'eek at Xew Braunfels, Comal county, Texas. Also in the 




168 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[ilarch 



Guadalupe river 6 to 4 miles to the north; Saa Marcos river at San 

 Marcos, Hays county, on the dam above the fish hatchery (Pilsbry 

 and Ferriss; Singley) ; a variety from Bexar county (A. G. Wetherby). 



This form differs from Melania pluristriata Say {M. rubida Lea) of 

 central Mexico, by its far smaller size and less ample aperture. The 

 type of pluristriata measured 1.25x.5.5 inches; of rubida 1.30x.57 

 inches ; and the specimens from Lake Chapala examined by Dr. von 

 Martens from 26 x 12 to 35 x 13 mm., while no Texan shell we have seen, 

 in many himdreds examined, reaches 1 inch long. Von Martens refers 

 the Mexican species to Pachychcilus. Dr. William H. Dall, to whom we 

 submitted specimens of G. comalensis for comparison with the type of 

 M. rubida Lea, writes that ' ' though the general form is the same, the 

 rubida is very much larger and perfectly distinct. ' ' The examples 

 figured are from Comal creek, New Braunfels, near the mill. 



The ascertained distribution of G. comalensis comprises only the 

 short ri\-ers of a single small system emptying into Espirito Santo Bay, 

 intercalated between the Colorado and Nueces basins, and comprising 

 the Guadalupe and San Antonio i'i\-ers and their tributaries. 



The Goniobases are known from these streams only at the edge of 

 the " Edwards Plateau." As they live on rocks, etc., in swift water, 

 it is not likely that they approach much nearer to the Gulf. In the 



Colorado river, where Filsbiy collected in ISSo, nothing was seen of the 

 species, nor has it been reported from the Nueces or its branches. We 

 saw no sign of Goniobasis in the tributaries of the Rio Grande, where 

 our collecting was extensive enough to have fountl it if it existed. '- 



The operculum (fig. 29) consists of about four whorls, the nucleus 

 being situated at about the lower third of its length. It is closely 



" In the collection of the Academy there are several specimens labelled "Dal- 

 las county," received from Mr. J. A. Singley. This is in the Trinity river 

 drainage, Ijut Singley in his catalogue of 1893, issued long after these specimens 

 were placed in the collection, expressly states that he found the species nowhere 

 l)Ut in Comal and Hays counties. There was probably some error in labelling 

 the specimens. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



marked with growth-wrinkles, and shows some striae at right angles 

 to them. 



The radiila (fig. 30) is normal for Goniohasis. The central tooth 

 has 4, 1, 4 denticles, the inner lateral 2, 1,4, inner uncinus 7, outer 

 about 20 denticles. An inner uucinus in profile is drawn on the ex- 

 treme right side (fig. 31), to show the length of the denticles, which 

 are foreshortened in fig. 30. 



G. comalensis is dimorphic, like G. rirginica and many other species. 

 At Xew Braunfels the smooth form described as t3^pical predominates, 

 but there are also some individuals with numerous acute spiral ridges, 

 about fifteen on the last whorl, but often fewer by suppression of those 

 just below the periphery. 



At San ilarcos only the smooth phase was found, in several hundred 

 specimens taken. 



A series of 12 labelled "Bexar county," received from A. G. 

 Wetherby, consists wholly of multistriate shells, which moreover, 

 although collected alive, are of a whitish or livid whitish tint, in this 

 respect approaching the Mexican pluristriatus. The largest of this 

 lot is 23.5 iruii. long, 9.3 wide, exceeding in size any seen from Comal 

 or Hays counties. These are part of the lot collected by 'Sir. G. W. 

 Marmock, of Bexar county, and commented on by Wetherby in the 

 Ainerican Naturalist for 1878. The "variety marmocki" mentioned 

 by him, but without a word of definition, may have been the smooth 

 form of the species, but there is nothing to indicate this either in 

 Wetherby's note or the set of shells he sent to Tryon.^^ 



Form fontinalis, nov. Figs. ;2-35. 



In a small spring in the pleasure garden near New Braunfels, one of 

 the fountains of Comal creek, we found only very small shells, the largest 

 7 to 8.3 mm. long, 4.3 to 4.7 mm. wide, and of a markedly short, conic 

 shape. The old ones are much eroded, and none are of the multi- 

 striate phase. This race inhabits only the springs and the rapid streams 

 from them for a short distance down. 



In another, much larger spring, and the stream from it for about 

 fifty yards down, the shells are also dwarfs, though somewhat larger 

 than those from the smaller spring. 



These springs flow out of the limestone rock, the water being beauti- 

 fully clear. It is not cold, being perceptibly warmer than the river 

 at the time of our visit, about the middle of April. There is very little 

 vegetation upon the rocks, and the small size of the snails may be due 



" Mr. Wetherby also mentions that "Helix pkotus Pfr. " was collected by Mr. 

 Marmock. This name mav be an error for H. tholus W. G. B. 




170 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[:\hrch. 



Fig 33. 



Fig. .34. 



,35. 



to insufficient food supply. Indivitiuals are, however, very numerous. 

 Associated with them are numerous Physas, also of pygmy proportions, 

 though evidently adult. The snails of these springs evidently consti- 

 tute physiologic rather than morphologic varieties. 



AMNICOLID^ 

 Paludestrina seemanni (Ffld.). 



New ^lexico: South Spring creek, near Roswell, in a Pleistocene 

 deposit (Cockerell and Tinsley, 1899). 



Texas: Drift debris of Pecos river, about a mile above the High 

 Bridge, Yal Verde count^^ (Pilsbry and Ferriss, 1903). 



Dr. R. E. C. Stearns has recorded this species from Death valley, 

 Inyo county, California. The specimens, some of which are before me, 

 are somewhat more robust than those from New Mexico and Texas. 

 The abo\-c records largely increase the eastward range of the species. 



Paludestrina diaboli n. sp. Fig. 36. 



Shell A'ery slender, turrite, shaped about like P. seemanni; composed 

 of 4^ verj' convex whorls separated by a deep suture. 

 Surface smooth. Aperture vertical, oval, a trifle nar- 

 rower above than below, but not angular there. Peris- 

 tome continuous, barely in contact with the preceding 

 whorl for a short distance near the upper end. Umbili- 

 cus small but distinct. 



Length 1.3, diam. .62 mm. 



Drift debris of the Devil's river, about four miles from 

 its mouth. Val Verde county, Texas. A single shell was 

 also found on the Rio San Filipe near Del Rio, in the same county. 



The shells w^ere all taken dead and bleached. It is readily separable 

 from P. seemanni by its diminuti-\'e size. This is the smallest species 

 of its family known from North America. 



Fig. 36. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



171 



Amnicola oomalensis "• sp- Fig- 37. 



Shell distinctly perforate, ovate, thin, corneous, faintly marked 

 with growth-lines. Spire regularly conic, 

 the apex obtuse. Wlaorls -ih, regularly con- 

 vex, not shouldered, the suture well im- 

 pressed. Aperture ovate, subangular above, 

 the peristome adnate for a short distance 

 above the perforation. 



Length 3.9, diam. 2, length of aperture 1.3 

 mm. 



Comal creek, near New Braunfels, Comal 

 county, Texas. Also from the Ciuadalupe 

 river about four miles above New Braunfels. 



This species is much smaller than A. limosa, 

 decisa, or other forms resembling it in color 



and shape. .4. cincinnatiensis Anth. and the very closely related A. 

 peracuta P. and W. both have more shouldered whorls, and are much 

 larger than A. comalensis. 



Coohliopa riograndensis n. sp- PI. IX, Hgs. 10, 11, 12, 13. 



Shell of the usual depressed-turbinate shape, openly umbilicate, of 

 a slightly olivaceous corneous tint. Surface faintly marked with 

 growth-lines, and sculptured with unec|ual spiral threads, a few of the 

 larger ones dark colored. One thread at the shoulder is usually the 

 most prominent. In some shells the spirals are very weak, hardly 

 perceptible. Whorls 3^, moderately convex, flattened and sloping 

 below the suture, elsewhere rounded. Aperture ciuite oblique, rotundly 

 ovate, the peristome thin, ecjuably arched except near the outer and 

 cokimellar insertions where it is noticeably straightened. The ends 

 are connected across the parietal wall by a thin or thick callus. The 

 columella is not noticeably thickened. 



Alt. 2, diam. 2.8 mm. 



Alt. 1.65, diam. 2.65 mm. 



Found in drift debris of Rio San Filipe near the Rio Grande, Val 

 "\'erde county, Texas, thirty-six specimens. Pilsbry and Ferriss, 

 1903. Types, 91,324, A. N. S. Phila. A single shell was also picked 

 out of similar debris on the Devil's river, about four miles from the Rio 

 Grande, in the same county. 



This discovery of this form adds a new genus to the fauna of the 

 United States and greatly extends the distribution of the group, the 




1"2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



other species being Central American." The shell has much the ap- 

 pearance of Valvata, but is readily distinguished from that by its ovate, 

 not circular aperture, which is more or less conspicuously aagailar 

 above, and by having the whorls more comimctly coiled. It should, 

 however, be said that we could not verify the generic reference of C. 

 riograndensis by examination of the operculum or radula, as unfor- 

 tunately none of the shells we obtained were living, though some were 

 fresh in appearance, and the operculum was not found. It consists of 

 few whorls in Cochliopa, as in Amnicola, while that of Valvata is 

 many-whorled with central nucleus. 



C. riogrande7Jsis is not closely related to any of the known species, 

 being of lighter texture, much more openly umbilicate, and with some- 

 what different sculpture. 



VALVATID^. 

 Valvata micra n. sp. PI. IX, tigs. 7, 8, 9. 



Shell excessively small, composed of 2i tubular whorls; spire nearly 

 flat: the last whorl is nearly round, barely or not quite in contact 

 with the preceding at the aperture, near which it enlarges more rapidly. 

 tSuture deep. Surface finely, weakly striate. Aperture moderately 

 oblique, subcircular, the peristome simple, continuous. Umbilicus 

 am]5le but rapidly narrowing within. 



Alt. .48, diam. 1.15 to 1.2 mm. 



Drift debris of Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braun- 

 fels, collected by Pilsbry and Ferriss, 1903. 



This is one of the smallest mollusks known, yet the dilation of the 



" Prof. \'on Martens defines four species of Cochliopa in the Biologia Centrali 

 Americana — giidlemalensia Morel., tri/oniana Pils., trochulti^ and injundibulum 

 Marts, (pp. 42S, 429). He omits C. roweUi Tryon, wliich was originally described 

 from Clear Lake, California. Rev. J. Rowell, who found the original specimens, 

 now states (in litt.) that "Cochlicopa Howellii was named from shells collected 

 by me near Baulinas Bay (not Clear Lake), Marin county, California." There 

 are authentic specimens irom Central America in the collection of the Academy, 

 so that I stiU doubt whether the species really was actually collected in Cali- 

 fornia. 



Prot. von Martens surmises that C. gnatemalensis (Morel.), which he had 

 not seen, may not be different specifically from C. tryomana ; but it is in fact not 

 ev'en closely related to that species, being very much smaller, more depressed, 

 and eveiily .sculptured with threadlike spirals. The suture descends shortly in 

 front in lully mature shells. An additional locality is Poh'on, in western Nicara- 

 gua (McNiel in coll. A. N, S. Phila.). I have examined the radula of C. guate- 

 malensis which proves to be Amnicoloid, and demonstrates the species to be a 

 Cochliopa, not a Valvata as Morelet supposed. The central tooth has the formula 

 -j.j-, the inner lateral has 6 denticles, the third from the inside being largest, 



and its body has the usual boss or projection lielow. The inner uncinus has 13, 

 the outer very many excessively minute denticles. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



whorl at the aperture shows it to be adult. Five specimens were taken. 

 The shells are all more or less bleached, the freshest being of a pale 

 corneous tint. The round whorls, deep suture and general appear- 

 ance are quite unlike any Planorbis f)r Vallonia, and indicate, we think, 

 either that it is a Valvata or an Amnicoloid snail comparable to Horalia 

 Bgt. or DnudcbardieUa Bttg. in the Pala^arctic fauna. Until fresh 

 specimens with the soft parts or operculum are found, the position of 

 this molluscaii atom will remain uncertain. 



Valvata micra tuigax (pi. IX, fig. 6), a slightly larger form, alt. .9 

 diam. 1.5 mm., with three whorls and a projecting spire, may prove to 

 be a distinct species; but for the present, until more specimens are 

 found, it may be placetl under V. micra as a variety or form. 



CYRBNID^. 

 Fisidiam singleyi Sterkl. 



Xautilus. XI, 1898, p. 112 (t\-pe loc. Guadalupe river, Comal county, Texas). 



Drift debris of Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braun- 

 fils, and of Devil's river, \a\ 'S'erde count}-, Texas. A closely related 

 form was found near Del Rio. 

 Fisidium compressum Prime. 



New Braunfels, Comal county, Texas. Mr. J. A. Singley found P. 

 trapezoideum Sterki at the same place (coll. A. N. S. Phila. No. 60,127). 



Fisidium abditum huaclmoaiium u. subsp. 



The shell is cjuite inflated, dark brownish-olive, irregularly striate 

 and marked with several conspicuous dark growth-arrest streaks; 

 very inequilateral, the beaks low and near the anterior end. Anterior 

 end abruptly truncate, posterior end produced and rounded. Hinge 

 rather narrow, the lateral teeth in the right valve single, short and 

 high, triangular ; in the left double. Length 5.1 , alt. 4. .3, diam. 3.4 mm. 



Stream in Carr canyon. Reef. Cochise coimty, Arizona, collected by 

 C. R. Biedermann, Februaiy S, 1904. 



Specimens were submitted to Dr. ^'. Sterki, who could not identify 

 the form with any known species. About half of the shells are more 

 compressed than those described as typical, one measm-ing, length 4.1, 

 alt. 3.4. diam. 2 mm. The very inequilateral, anteriorly truncate out- 

 line and low beaks are characteristic of both the obese and com- 

 pressed forms. 



Eupera singleyi (Pils.). 



Sphoerivm (Limosina) sivglei/i Pils., Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 1889, p. 88, pi. 



3, figs. 14, 15 (May 14,'lS89). 

 ? Cyclas macidata Morelet, 18.59, not of Anton, 1839 =SphaTium yacalunense 



Fischer and CYosse, Miss. Sci. Me.x., Moll., II, p. 653 (1894). 



This species is now known to us by specimens from the following 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



places, all in Texas: White Oak ba^vou, Houston (Singley); Cedar 

 creek, Hudson county (G. C. Heron, type locality); Lavaca river, 

 Jackson county (J. D. Mitchell); New Braunfels. Comal county (Sing- 

 ley, Ferriss and Pilsbry); Guadalupe river about foiu- miles above New 

 Braunfels (Singley, Ferriss and Pilsbry) ; Devil's river. \a\ \evde county 

 (Ferriss and Pilsbrj'). 



It is a prettily maculate little clam, widely distributed in Texan 

 waters. The largest shell I have seen measiu'es 6 mm. long. It may 

 prove to be specifically identical with E. maculata Morelet of Yucatan, 

 but that name is preoccupied by Anton for another species of the same 

 group. ]3oth were described as Cyclas and belong to Eitpera. For 

 this reason Crosse and Fischer proposeil to substitute the name yiwa- 

 tanense; but five 3-ears previously I had described and figured S.sing- 

 leyi. The latter name will therefore stand. 



UNIONID^. 



A list of species taken b\- us in Aj-kansas, Indian Territory and 

 Texas will be published elsewhere. As our work in these States was 

 done in the early spring, we found most of the streams too high for 

 effective collecting of bivalves. 



EXPLAXATIOX OF PlaTES Y-IX. 



Plate V. — Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Pohjgyra mooreana thohis (W. G. B.). Washington 



county, Texas. No. 251, A. N. S. Phila. 

 Figs. 4, 5, 6J 7. — Poh/gyra mooreana (\V. G. B.). Guadalupe river, Comal 



countv, Texas. No. 91,364. Figs. 8, 9, 10. — Hondo river near 



Hondo, Texas. Xo. 91.361. 

 Figs. 11, 12. — Polygyra t-xasiana texetisis Pils. Types. Colorado Citv, 



Texas. No. 83.258. 

 Figs. 13, 14, 15. — Polygyra iexasiana hyperolia Pils. and Ferr. West of 



Devil's river, Texas. Xo. 91,363. 

 Figs. 16, 17, 20. — Polygyra texasiana (Moric.). Typical. Guadalupe river 



Comal county, Texas, Xo. 91,362. 

 Figs. IS, 19. — Poh/gyra texasiana (Moric). Race with striate base, Calhoun 



county, Texas. Xo. 229, A. X. S. Phila. 



Pl.\te VI. — Fig. 1. — Bulimutus dealbatus mooreamis (W. G. B.). San Antonio, 



Texas. Xo. 84,626. 

 Figs. 2, 3, 4. — B. d. mooreanus. Guadalupe river above Xew Braunfels. 



Xo. 84,628. 

 Figs. 5, 6. — B. d. mooreanus. Victoria, Texas. Xo. 76,210. 

 Figs. 7, S. — B. d. liquabilis (Rve.). t^an Marcos, Texas. Xos. 91,396 and 



91.397. 

 Figs. 9, 10, 11. — B. d. liquabilis. Jackson county, Texas. Xo. 76,286. 

 Fig. 12. — B. d. liquabilis. Lee countv, Texas. Xo. 58,379 

 Fig 13.— Bidimulus dealbatus (Say)." Tj-pe. Xo. 58,381, A. N. S. Phila. 



Alabama. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



Fig. 14. — Biilimulus d. osarketisis Pils. and Ferr. Seligman, Missouri. No. 



S3, 132 

 Fig. 15. — B. d. ozarkensits Pils. and Ferr. Rogers, Arkansas. No. 91,3.58. 

 Figs. 16, 17. — Bulimuhis d. ragsdalei Pils. Types. Montague county, 



Texas. No. 58,380. 

 Figs. IS, 19, 20, 21, 22.— fi. d. ragsdalei. Southwestern herd. West of 



Devil's river, Val Verde county, Texas. Nos. 91,356 and 84,638. 

 Figs. 23, 24. — B. d. ragsdalei Southwestern herd. Del Rio, Texas. Nos. 



87,486 and 91,355. 

 Fig. 25. — Bulitnulus d. pasonis Pils. T^^pe. Near El Paso, Texas. No. 



83,259. 

 Figs. 26, 27. — Bulimulu.i d. pecosensis Pils. and Ferr. Near the Pecos river. 



Nos. 91, .3.59 and 84,618. 



Plate VII. — Varieties of Bulimuhis alteryiatus marice (Alb.). 



Figs. 1-7.— Near tlie Higli Bridge of the Pecos. No. 84,627, A. N. S. Phila. 



Figs. 4 and 5 represent young sliells. 

 Fig. 8. — Near the Rio Grande, east of the Pecos river. No. 84,625. 

 Figs 9, 10. 11.— Near Rio San Filipe below Del Rio. No. 84,635. 

 Fig. 12. — Near Rio San Filipe below Del Rio. An albino, tal'cen alive. 

 Figs. 13, 14, 15, 16.— Corpus Christi, Texas. No. 60,136. 

 Figs. 17, 18, 19.— Hidalgo, Texas. No. 60,094. 

 Figs. 20-24.— Derby, Frio county, Texas. No. 60,501. 

 Figs. 25-30.— Laredo, Webb county, Texas. No. 60,502. 



Plate VIII. — Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Helicodiscus eigenmanni Pils. San Marcos, Texas. 



No. 91,320. 

 Figs. 4, 6. — H. e. arizonensis Pils. and Ferr. Fort Bowie, Cochise county, 



Arizona. No. 87,077, A. N. S. Phila. 

 Fig. 5. — H. e. arizonensis. A more depressed specimen. Cave Creek 



Canyon, Chiricahua Mountains No. 87,076. A. S. N. Phila. 

 Figs. 7, 8, 9, 10. — Helicodiscus parallclus (Say). Philadelphia, Pa. No. 



78,272, A. N. S. Phila. 



Plate IX. — Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Planorhis filocinclus Pils. and Ferr. Type. 

 Figs. 4, .5. — Planorhis carus Pils, and Ferr. Type. 

 Fig. 6. — Vnlrata 7nicra nugax Pils. and Ferr. T^'pe. 

 Figs. 7, 8, 9. — Valrata micra Pils. and Ferr. Type. 

 Figs. 10, 11, 12, 13. — Cochliopa riograndensis Pils. and Ferr. Cotypes. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ApriU 



April 3. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwix Brown, Mce-President, in the Chair. 

 Eighty-nine persons present. 



The reception of a paper entitled "New, Rare and Little-known 

 Scombridfe, No. 3," by Henry W. Fowler (March 22), was reported 

 by the Publication Committee. 



The death of Dr. Ogden Doremus, a correspondent, March 22, wa.s 

 announced. 



Dr. E. G. Conklix made a communication on recent views as to 

 the cause of sex. (No abstract.) 



April 17. 

 Mr. Frank J. Keeley in the Chair. 



Seventy persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the recejjtion of papers luider 

 the following t'tles: 



' ' Description of a new Australian Cilycymeris, ' ' by Henry A. Pilsbiy 

 (April 10). 



"A Monograph of the Genus Collocalia," by Hany C. Oberholser 

 (April 12). 



"On Hawaiian Species of Sphyradimn," by Henry A. Pilsbry and 

 C. M. Cooke, Jr. 



Mr. George Yaux, Jr., exhibited a number of beautiful lantern 

 illustrations before the reading of a paper by William S. Vaux, Jr., 

 giving the results of recent studie? of glaciers of the Canadian 

 Rockies and the Selkirks, in continuation of a series of observations 

 extending over a period of eight years. The paper will be published 

 later. 



Messrs. Ogilsby Paul and Norton Downs, j\I.D., were elected mem- 

 bers. 



The following were ordered to be printed? 




1906.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



A MONOGRAPH OF THE GENUS COLLOCALIA. 



BY HARRY C. OBERHOLSER. 



There is perhaps no other group of Swifts that equals in general 

 interest the genus Collocalia. Some of the species build edible nests 

 wholly or partly of saliva which is secreted in large quantities by 

 salivary glands of unusual size; and the gathering and marketing of 

 these nests has in some places and at some times grown to a traffic of 

 consiilerable importance. 



Owing to the great similarity of many of the species, and the ob- 

 scurity of the characters separating them, the gi'oup is one of the most 

 difficult in the entire family Micropodidse. Puljlislied descriptions,' 

 particularly those of the older authors, are often so brief and so lacking 

 in mention of really diagnostic characters that it is hard, sometimes 

 even impossible, to determine with certainty the form intended. For- 

 tunately, perhaps, the sexes, except in a very few cases, are practically 

 identical both in size and coloration. Notwithstanding the fact that 

 some authors have minimized the importance of difference in size, 



' The most important papers on the genus are as follows: 

 HoRSFiELD, T., and Moore, F. — Genus Collocalia. A Catalogue of the Birds in 



the Museum of the Hon. East India Company, I, 1S54, pp. 9S-106. 

 Bonaparte, C. L. — Note sur les Salanganes et sur leur nids. Comptes Rendus de 



V Aeademie des Sciences de Paris, XLI, 18.5.5, pp. 976-979. 

 Bernstein, H. A. — Beitriige zur naheren Kenntniss der Gattung Collocalia Gr. 

 ' Xova Acta Academiae Leopoldinae Carolinae Xaturae Curiosorum, XXVI, 1, 



1S57, pp. 13-32. 

 Bernstein, H. A. — Ueber die Nester der Salanganen. Journal fiir Ornithologie, 



l.S,59, pp. 111-119. 

 W.4XLACE, A. R, — On the Identification of the Hirundo esculenta of Linnaeus, 



with a S>^lopsis of the Described Species of Collocalia. Proceedings of the 



Zoological Society of London, 1863, pp. 382-385. 

 Oray, G. R. — A S\Tiopsis of the Species of the Genus Collocalia, with Descriptions 



of New Species. Annals and Magazine of Xatural History, Series 3, XVII, 



1866, pp. 118-128. 

 S.iLV.^DORi, T. — Osservazioni intorno ad alcune Specie del Genere Collocalia, 



G. R. Gr. Atti della R. Accademia delta Scienze di Torino, XV, 1879, pp. 



343-350. 

 Hartert, E. — Collocalia. Catalogue of the Birds in the British Museum, X^'I, 



1892, pp. 496-511. 

 Hartert, E.— Gen. Collocalia G. R. Gray. Das Tierreich, I, 1897, pp. 66-70. 

 12 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



this is often one of the very best and most appreciable distinctions 

 between both species and subspecies. 



One of the most surprising as well as interesting developments of 

 our study has been the discovery of so many undescribed members of 

 the genus, among which two entirely distinct species with wholly 

 brownish lores like Collocalia leucophaea seem especially notable, as 

 does also one from New Caledonia allied to CoUocalia leucopygia. 

 Most of the new forms are here elaborated from material recently col- 

 lected, and upon which no puljlished report has yet been made. 



Much confusion has hitherto arisen becavise of failure properly to 

 discriminate those birils which have the tarsus more or less feathered 

 from those in which it is entirely bare. In some cases forms with 

 feathered and others with unfeathered tarsi have been considered sub- 

 specifically related or even identical ! The difficulty vanishes, however, 

 if all the birds with any feathering on the tarsus be considered apart 

 from the rest and placed, as they apparently shoukl be, and as they are 

 in the following pages, in a separate subgeneric group. Indeed, it may 

 be best to regard them as even generically distinct, though it is not 

 here so done, because this character of tarsal feathering is the sole one 

 separating the groups, and while very marked in such forms as Col- 

 localia innominata, it is but slight, sometimes difficult to appreciate, 

 therefore in a sense intermediate, in Collocalia fuciphaga and its allies ; 

 and because if there be any logical difference between a genus and a 

 subgenus, the criterion of practical intergradation of characters through 

 intermediate species should be so considered. 



The proper generic name for the whole group seems to he CoUocalia 

 — the one of current usage. The name Salangana St.-Hilaire has been 

 recently substituted ^ because supposedly of earlier date, but Salangana 

 now proves first to have been employed simply in a vernacular sense,^ 

 anil to be citable as a generic term only from a later article ^ which is 

 posterior to the work containing Collocalia Gray.^ There are no other 

 synonyms. 



The material used in the preparation of the present memoir aggre- 

 gates 159 specimens, principally of recent collection, and represents 

 very nearly all the recognized forms. It is in large part that of the 

 United States National Museum, which is now, through the many 

 donations from Dr. W. L. Abbott, of considerable extent and includes 

 good series of many of the species. This has been supplemented by 



2 Richmond, Proc. U. S. .Vo^ Miis^., XXV, 1902, p. 301. 

 ' " Salangane.'!, " Saint-Hilaire, I' Echo da Monde Savant, IV, 1837, p. 84. 

 * Rev. ZooL, 1840, p. 145. 

 List Gen. Birds, 1840, p. 8. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



the birds obtained by Mr. Charles H. Townsend during the Pacific 

 cruise of the United States Fisli Commission steamer "Albatross," in 

 1899-1900, and by specimens from the Academy of Natiu'al Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, the American Museum of Natural History, and the 

 Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum at Honolulu. To the authorities of 

 these institutions, to Mr. Townsend, Dr. Charles W. Richmond, and 

 Mr. Witmer Stone the writer's thanks are due for the courtesies which 

 have made this paper possible. 



Genus COLLOCALIA Gray. 



Collocalia Gray, List Gen. Birds, 1840, p. 8 (t>-pe, Hirundo esculenta Linn:eus). 

 Salangana Lesson, Rev. ZooL, 1840, p. 145 (tj^pe, Hirundo esculenta Linnseus) . 



Chars, gen. — Small and mostly rather plainly colored Swifts; outer 

 and middle toes with normal number of phalanges; tarsus not at all 

 or but sparsely feathered, and not shorter than the middle toe; wings 

 long, reaching when closed far beyond end of the tail ; tail short, nearly 

 square to somewhat deeply emarginate, the shafts of the rectrices 

 without spiny tips. 



Type. — Hirundo esculenta LinniEus. 



Geographical range. — India and Ceylon, south to the Seychelles 

 Islands, east through the Malay Peninsula, the East India Islands, 

 and Polynesia, to the Philippine, JMariana, IMarquesas, Society and 

 Tonga groups, and northern Australia. 



Key to the Species and Subspecies of Collocalia. 



A. — Tarsus more or less feathered (subgenus Aerodramus). 



a. — Rump with a conspicuous white or brownish white band. 



h. — Centre of abdomen brownish gray like the breast; wing 



more than 120 nnn., .... Collocalia innominata. 



¥. — Centre of abdomen white or nearly so; wing less than 120 



mm. 



c. — Upper parts brownish black; throat and breast nearly 



pure white like the abdomen; posterior lower sm-face 



without conspicuous dark shaft lines, 



Collocalia agnota. 

 c^. — Upper parts dull black, scarcely brownish; throat and 

 breast brownish gray like chin, anil much darker than 

 abdomen; posterior lower surface with conspicuous 

 dark shaft lines, .... Collocalia Icucopijgia. 

 a'. — Rump without a conspicuous white or brownish white band. 

 b. — Feathers of lores with brownish bases, . Collocalia ocista. 

 6'. — Feathers of lores with pure white bases, 

 c. — Wing not less than 124 mm. 



d. — Larger; upper surface lighter; lower surface with 

 conspicuous blackish shaft lines, Collocalia lowi. 




180 PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [April, 



cP . — Smaller; upper surface darker; lower surface without 

 conspicuous blackish shaft lines, 



Collocalia brevirostris. 

 d. — Wing less than 124 mm. 



d. — Larger (wing about 121 mm.); upper surface more 

 brownish; rump noticeably paler than back, 



Collocalia juciphaga elaphra. 



d^. — Smaller (wing lOS-llS mm.); upper surface more 



blackish; rump not noticeably paler than back. 



e. — Lower surface paler; ujjper surface somewhat 



more brownish, Collocalia fucipfiaga I'estita. 



.•e^. — Lower surface darker; upper surface somewhat 



more blackish, Collocalia fucipfiaga fuciphaga. 



B. — Tarsus entirely unfeathereil (subgenus Collocalia). 



a. — Abdomen not white in sharp contrast to the breast, the lower 

 surface nearly uniform brownish gray. 

 b. — Rump without a conspicuous white or brownish white 

 band, 

 c. — Feathers of the lores with brownish bases, 



Collocalia leucophaea. 

 c\ — Feathers of the lores with pure white bases. 

 d. — Larger (wing 127-140 mm.). 



e. — Upper surface darker, much more blackish; lower 



surface darker, and uniform, Collocalia origenis. 



e'. — LTpper siu'face lighter, much more brownish; 



lower surface lighter, the throat paler than 



the rest, Collocalia ichiteheadi. 



d^— Smaller (wing 109.5-123 mm.). 



e. — Upper parts more brownish, more uniform, the 

 pileum scarcely darker, the rump not lighter, 

 than the back; throat not paler than abdomen, 

 Collocalia unicolor itnicolor. 

 e*. — LTpper parts less brownish, less uniform, the 

 pileum darker, the rump usualh' lighter, than 

 the back; throat paler than abdomen, 



Collocalia unicolor amelis. 

 6*. — Rump with a eoaspicuous white or brownish white band. 

 c. — Feathers of lores with brownish bases, 



Collocalia thespesia. 

 c'. — Feathers of lores with pure white bases. 

 d. — Smaller (wing 110-114 mm.). 



e. — Abdomen and upper surface darker; light rump 

 band with more conspicuous dark shafts; size 

 smaller (wing 110-111 mm.), 



Collocalia francica terraereginae. 

 e'. — Abdomen and upper surface paler; light rump 

 band with less conspicuous dark shafts; size 

 larger (wing 112-114), 



Collocalia francica francica. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



d'. — Larger (wing 114-12-4 mm.). 



e. — Lower surface with distinct blackish shaft lines; 

 light rump band with dark shaft lines very 

 conspicuous. 

 /. — L^pper and lower parts much paler; light 

 rump band more conspicuous, 



CoUocalia francica ycrmani. 

 p. — LTpper and lower parts much darker; light 

 rump band less conspicuous, 



CoUocalia jrancica incxpectata. 



e'. — Lower surface without distinct blackish shaft 



lines ; light nunp band with dark shaft lines 



almost obsolete. 



/. — Upper surface with little or no greenish gloss; 



rump band more brownish ; posterior lower 



parts darker, 



CoUocalia francica spodiopygia. 



f. — Upper surface with a distinct greenish gloss ; 



nmip band more whitish; posterior lower 



parts paler, CoUocalia francica toicnscndi. 



a*. — ^At least the middle of abdomen white, in sharp contrast to the 



gray breast. 



b. — Rump with a white band. 



c. — Rectrices with white spots; white rump band without 



blackish shaft lines, . . . CoUocalia uropygialis. 



c'. — Rectrices without white spots; white rump band with 



conspicuous blackish shaft lines, CoUocalia troglodytes. 



V. — Rump without a white band. 



c. — Rectrices with white spots. 



d. — Upper surface brighter and more bluish or purplish ; 

 rump, wing-quills, and wing-coverts without light 



grayish tips, CoUocalia esculcnta. 



d'. — Upper surface duller and more greenish; rump, 

 wing-quills, and wing-coverts with light grayish 

 tips. 

 e. — White spots on tail-feathers sharply defined ; chin 

 and upper throat paler; blackish shaft-mark- 

 ings of short lower tail-coverts smaller, 



CoUocalia neglecta. 

 &. — White spots on tail-feathers not sharply defined ; 

 chin and upper throat darker; blackish shaft- 

 markings of short lower tail-coverts larger, 



CoUocalia natalis. 

 c'. — Rectrices without white spots. 



d. — Feathers of rump with broad white edgings, 



CoUocalia marginata. 

 d^. — Feathers of nunp without white edgings. 



e. — Wing less than 9.5 mm. ; upper surface much 

 duller, CoUocalia dodgei. 




182 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



&. — Wing more than 95 mm. ; upper surface much 

 brighter. 

 /. — Upper parts much more bhiish or purplish. 

 g. — Larger (wing averaging 104.6 mm.), 



Collocalia linchi cyanoptila. 

 g^. — Smaller (wing averaging 99.2 mm.), 



Collocalia linchi afjinis. 

 /'. — Upper parts much more greenish. 

 g. — Larger (wing 10.3-105 mm.), 



Collocalia linchi linchi. 

 g^. — Smaller (wing 97-101.5 mm.). 



/). — Upper sio'face duller, somewhat less 

 bluish or purplish; size slightly 

 greater, Collocalia linchi isonota. 

 /i'. — Upper sm-face brighter, somewhat 

 more bluish or purplish ; size slightly 

 less, Collocalia linchi elachypiera. 



AERODRAMUS.s subgenus nov. 



Chars, subgen. — Similar in proportions to the subgenus Collocalia, 

 but tarsus more or less feathered. 

 Type. — Collocalia innominata Hume. 



Collocalia lenoopygia Wallace. 



Collocalia leucopygia Wallace, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1863, p. 384. 



Chars, sp. — Upper surface dull, slightly sooty black, with a weak 

 metallic gloss, most evident on crown, the rump with a broad white 

 band whose feathers have conspicuous blackish shaft lines ; wings and 

 tail black with some metallic sheen, the latter without white spots ; sides 

 of head anil neck clo^■e lirown, the loral feathers with white bases; 

 chin and throat brownish gray; remaining lower parts pale grayish 

 anteriorly, becoming brownish on sides of bodj', and whitish on abdo- 

 men, all the feathers with distinct darker shaft lines; longest under 

 tail-coverts glossy blackish brown; thighs and lining of wing brownish 

 black. 



Wing, 95-99.5; tail, 45; exposed culmen, 4; tarsus, 8.5 mm. 



Type locality. — New Caledonia. 



Geographical (listribution. — Loyalty Islands, New Hebrides Islands, 

 and New Caledonia. 



This species may readily be distinguished from all its congeners with 

 feathered tarsi, excepting Collocalia innominata and C. agnota, by the 

 white band on the rump; and from all but Collocalia agnota by the 



' avp, aer; Spafitlv, cursare. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



white or whitish abdomen. In color it approaches rather near some 

 Species of the subgenus Collocalia, notabl)' some forms of Collocalia 

 francica, but the whitish abdomen is of course diagnostic. 



Collocalia agnota sp. nor. 



Chars, sp. — Similar to Collocalia leucopygia, but upper surface 

 lighter, much more brownish; chin, upper throat, and sides of head 

 much paler brown; ventral surface from the lower throat to anal region 

 more purely white, the jugulum and breast white like the abdomen, 

 and contrasting sharply with the grayish brown of the chin and upper 

 throat; feathers of breast and abdomen without noticeably darker 

 shaft lines ; basal portion of rectrices much paler. 



Geographical distribution. — Island of New Caledonia. 



Description. — Tj-pe, adult female, Xo. 8,757, American ]\Iuseiun of 

 Natiu-al HistorA'; Xew Caledonia; Verreaux Collection, Upper parts 

 brownish black, the pileum with some metallic greenish gloss, the back 

 vrith a faint suggestion of the same, the cervix a little lighter and more 

 brownish : rump with a broad band of pure white, the feathers of which 

 have dark brown shaft lines ; rectrices externally brownish black, with 

 a slight bluish metallic sheen, internally more brownish, and proxi- 

 mally growing paler until at base they are quite light brown, but \\-ithout 

 white spots; wings brownish black with some metallic sheen, the iimer 

 margins of quiUs fuscous; lores, orbital region, and a narrow line across 

 the forehead sepia brown, the feathers of the lores with pm-e white 

 bases; sides of neck and breast grayish brown, much lighter than the 

 cervix ; chin and upper throat dull broccoli browm ; rest of lower parts 

 medially almost piu-e white, though just appreciably brownish an- 

 teriorly, the sides of bod}'' washed with brownish, the shorter lower 

 tail-coverts pale brownish gray with darker shaft lines and whitish 

 margins, the longest ones dark brown, with distally a metallic sheen; 

 thighs brownish black ; lining of wings dark brown. 



Wing, 105; tail, 46; exposed culmen, 4; tarsus, 9 mm. 



The relationships of this evidently distinct and apparently unde- 

 scribed species are undoubtedly with Collocalia leucopygia, as is indi- 

 cated by the conspicuously feathered tarsi, the white abdomen, and 

 the white rump band with dark shaft lines. The only specimen known 

 is the above described one in the American Museum of Natural History. 

 Collocalia innominata Hume. 



Collocalia intiominata Hume, Stray Feathers, I, 1873, p. 294. 

 Collocalia maxima Hume, Stray Feathers, IV, 1876, p. 223 (Mergui and Bank- 

 asoon, Tenasserim) (notnen nudum). 



Chars, sp. — Quite different horn Collocalia leucopygia: much larger; 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



entire lower surface dark brownish gray; upper parts more brownish, . 

 the light rump band decidedly less conspicuous. 



Wing, 130-137; tail, 50-56; exposed culmen, 6; tarsus 12-12.5 u\m. 



Type locality. — Port Mouat, South Andaman Island, Andaman 

 Islands. 



Geographical distribution. — Southern Tenasserim to Lower Siam and 

 Perak, Malay Peninsula; Mergui Archipelago; accidental(?) on South 

 Ajidaman Island. 



The large size, feathered tarsi, light brownish rump band with dark 

 shaft lines, and the conspicuously darker mesial lines of the lower 

 surface, which last are present in only a few forms of CoUocalia'snfRc- 

 iently distinguish this very strongly characterized species. An adult 

 female taken by Dr. W. L. Abbott on September 5, 1896, at Trong, 

 Lower Siam, proves its occurrence in that region. 



Collooalia ooista sp. nov. 



Chars, sp. — Similar to Collocalia leucophaeae, but tarsi feathered ; 

 slightly smaller, except the tail which is longer; upper surface, includ- 

 ing wings and tail, darker, more blackish (less brownish), and on head 

 and back as well as elsewhere with a tlecided greenish metallic gloss; 

 lower parts more grayish. 



Geographical distrihution. — Marquesas and Society Islands. 



Description. — Type, adult female; Nukahiva Island, Marquesas 

 Islands, September 16, 1899; Charles H. Townsend. Upper surface 

 almost uniform dark sooty brown, slightly deeper on the pileum, a 

 little lighter on the rump — neither of these differences very noticeable 

 — and everywhere with a greenish metallic sheen ; wings and tail darker, 

 more blackish, with a bluish or purplish metallic gloss, the wing-coverts 

 slightly more greenish, the innermost secondaries and inner margins of 

 the quills, at least basally, lighter and more brownish — al^out the same 

 color as the back; sides of head clove brown almost as dark as the 

 crown, the lores quite so, the loral feathers with lighter brown bases; 

 lower parts nearly uniform deep brownish gray, only the chin and 

 longest under tail-coverts somewhat darker; lining of wing clo\-e brown. 



This new and very interesting bird is superficially so much like 

 Collocalia leucophaea, with the type of which it has been compared, 

 that a specimen in the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, 

 collected long ago in the Marquesas Islands, and presented by Dr. 

 Gambel, was so labelled ; but the species may readily be separated by 

 the characters above given. It is fully as dark below as C. leucophaea, 

 and like that species is peculiar in possessing light brown bases to the 



i 




1906.] 



NATtlRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



185 



feathers of the lores. From Collocalia fuciphaga {uciphaga, which also 

 to some extent it superficially resembles, it may be distinguished by 

 its larger size and more brownish upper parts, as well as most trench- 

 anth^by the light brown instead of pure white bases of the loral feathers. 

 From Collocalia fuciphaga elaphra, a subspecies hereinafter described/ 

 with which it agrees in size, and which it more closely approaches in 

 the general color of the upper surface, it differs in being rather more 

 blackish and more uniform above, the rump not so appreciabh' paler 

 than the back; in having much darker lower surface; also, and most 

 decidedly, in having the bases of the feathers of the lores Ught brown. 

 This last character alone ■nill separate it from all fornxs of the genus 

 excepting C. leucophaea and C. thespesia.^ 



Three specimens of this new species were collected by llr. Charles 

 H. Townsend in 1899, during his recent Pacific cruise on the U. S. Fi.sh 

 Commission steamer "Albatross." One of these, the single specimen 

 from Tahiti, is rather more brownish above, and a little paler on the 

 crissum than the type, but is very different from C. leucophaea : another, 

 from the ^larquesas Islands, is more blackish above and slightly darker 

 below; but the old specimen in the collection of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia is practically identical with our type. 



Measurements of Collocalia ocista are as follows: 



Sex. 



Locality. 



Date. Wing. ' Tail. '^^P^sed j-^^^^^ 



Culmen. 



9 Nukahiva I., Marquesas 



Islands' Sept. 16, 1899 121 



— Nukahiva I., Marquesas! 



Islands iSept. 15, 1899 119 



— Marquesas Islands | 117.5 



(J Xukahiva I., Marquesas 



Islands July IS, 1902 119 



C? Tahiti I., Society Islands. Nov. 13, 1899 123 



65 



61 

 61 



61 

 59 



4 

 4.5 



4.5 

 4 



8.5 



9 



8.5 



9 

 9 



Average 119.9 



61.4 



4.4 



8.8 



Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga (Thunberg). 



Hirundo fuciphaga Thunberg, K. Vet. Akad. Xva Handl., XXXIII, 1812, 



p. 153, pi. 4 (Java). 

 Hirundo vanikorensis Quoy and Gaimard, Voy. Astrolabe, Zool., I, 1830, p. 



206, pi. XII, fig. 3 (Vanikoro Island, Santa Cruz Islands, Pacific Ocean) 



' Postea, p. 188. 

 ' Poslea, p. 195. 

 • T\-pe. 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Cotyle vanicorensis Boic, Isis, 1844, p. 170 (noni. emend, pro Hirundo vani- 



korcnsis Quoy and Gaimard). 

 Hemiprocne salangana 8treubel. Isis, 1848, p. 368 (East Indies). 

 Ci/psehis inquieltis Kittlitz, Denkwurd. Reise, II, 1858, p. 26 (Ualan Island, 



Caroline Islands, Pacific Ocean). 



Chars, subsp. — Similar to CoUocalia leucophaea, but decidedly smaller; 

 tarsus sparsely feathered; bases of the loral feathers pure white; upper 

 parts very much more blackish, and rather more uniform, the rump 

 not appreciably lighter than the back. 



Type locality. — Java. 



Geographical distribution. — East India Islands and western Poly- 

 nesia, from Nias, Java, Borneo, and the Natuna Islands, northeast 

 to the Philippine, IMariana, and Caroline Islands, east and southeast 

 to New Guinea, Duke of York Island, Tonga (Friendly) and Loyalty 

 Islands. 



The birds of a good series, consisting of specimens from Java, the 

 Philippine and Caroline Islands, and from Xias Island, off the western 

 coast of Sumatra, are very uniform in size as well as in the dark lower 

 surface and glossy blackish upper parts, indicating thus that the name 

 Hirundo ranikorensis Quoy and Gaimard,'" which was based on the 

 bird from the Santa Cruz Islands, is synonymous with Hirundo fuci- 

 phaga Thunberg," from Java. A single specimen from Guam Island 

 is, however, much more brownish above than any of the others ex- 

 aminetl , and may represent an vmdescribed race. Much of the difficulty 

 heretofore experienced in identifying this species and in segregating 

 its various forms has arisen from confusing with it the birds with light 

 lower surface and unfeathered tarsi, which occur in various localities, 

 and most if not all of which are CoUocalia unicolor amclis. 



The tail in CoUocalia fuciphaga is usually cjuite deeply emarginate, 

 but this character varies greatly. Some specimens in our series have 

 the tail almost even, and there is every gradation evitlent between 

 this condition antl that of greatest emargination, differences apparently 

 to be accoimted for only by indi^'idual variation. Care must therefore 

 be exercised in using the shape of the tail as an absolute character to 

 distinguish this species. 



Measurements of CoUocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga are as follows: 



'» Voy. Astrolabe, Zool., I, 1830, p. 206, pi. XII, fig. 3. 

 " K. Vet. Akad. Nya Handl., XXXIII, 1812, p. 153, pi. 4. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



187 



CoUocalia fuciphaga vestita (Lesson). 



Salangana vestita Lesson, I'Echo du Monde Savant, ser. 2, VIII, 1843, p. 134, 

 CoUocalia nidifica Gray, Genera Birds, I, 1845, p. 55 (Sumatra). 



Chars, subsp. — Similar to CoUocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga, but entire 

 lower surface much paler; upper parts rather lighter and more 

 brownish. 



Type locality. — Sumatra. 



Geographical distribution. — Sumatra, Simalur Island, and southern 

 part of Malay Peninsula. 



The original CoUocalia fuciphaga was based on the bird from Java, 

 from which this western form differs as above said. For the latter the 

 name Salangana vestita Lesson '^ seems to be available. This is 

 founded on "Hirundo esculenta Lath. Gen. Syn.pl. Hab. les iles de la 

 Malasie," " which in both description and locality (Sumatra) is perti- 

 nent to the present form. Moreover, the only Sumatran specimen 

 examined agrees with the birds from Simalur Island, upon which latter 

 the present separation is primarih- based. The Nias Island bird, how- 

 ever, is identical with that of Java, as already noted, and therefore 

 must be called CoUocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga. A single adult from 

 Tanjong Silantei, on the east coast of Johore, southern ilalay Peninsula, 

 seems to be exactly like the birds from Simalur Island in color, but is 

 considerably larger, the wing measuring 118 mm. ; notwithstanding this 

 it seems best referred, for the present at least, to C. f. vestita, although 

 additional specimens may show it to be representative of a recognizable 

 subspecies. 



Measurements of CoUocalia fuciphaga vestita are as follows : 



'= VEcho du Monde Savant, ser. 2, VIII, 1843, p. 134. 



" Latham, Gen. Synop., Suppl. II, 1801, p. 257, pi. CXXXV. 




188 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Collooalia fuciphaga elaphra subsp. nov. 



Chars, subsp. — Similar to Collocalia fiiciphaga ftwiphaga. l^ut de- 

 cidedl,y larger; upper parts much more brownish, and less uniform, the 

 rump being noticeably lighter than the back; lower surface decidedly- 

 paler. 



Geographical distribution. — Seychelles Islands; Anamba Islands. 



Description. — Type, adult, sex unknown, Xo. 119,779, U. S. X. M. ; 

 Mahe Island, Seychelles Islands, April 17, 1890; Dr. W. L. Abbott. 

 Upper surface sooty brown, with a very slight greenish gloss, the 

 pileum rather darker and more greenish, the rump much lighter 

 brownish — but not whitish — this due partially to the lighter bases of 

 the feathers; wings and tail darker, more blackish, with a dull bluish, 

 greenish or purplish sheen, the wing-coverts decidedlj- greenish ; sides 

 of head and neck dark brown, darkest on the lores, where the feathers 

 have pure white bases; entire lower surface rather deep browni.sh gray, 

 somewhat paler posteriorly, darker on chin, the longest under tail- 

 coverts slightly glossed with greenish ; lining of wing blackish brown. 



The specimens on which this race is principally established were 

 collected b}^ Dr. W. L. Abbott on Jlah^, one of the Seychelles Islands. 

 They differ so much from typical Collocalia fuciphaga, of which we 

 have a considerable series from several localities, that it seems necessary 

 to regard them as representatives of another subspecies. 



The lighter coloretl rump, which seems to be one of the best char- 

 acters of this race, is not sufficiently decided to give the impression of 

 a whitish band such as exists in Collocalia francica and its allies, but it 

 is nevertheless quite different from the uniformly dark condition ob- 

 taining on the upper surface of Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga. From 

 Collocalia fuciphaga vestita, which in some respects it resembles more 

 closely than it does true fuciphaga, it may readily be distinguished by 

 its greater size, lighter, more brownish, and less uniform upper surface, 

 with the rump noticeably paler than the back. This new race, how- 




1906.] 



NATUE.\L SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



189 



ever, does not need special comparison with any further forms of the 

 genus, even those possessing feathered tarsi. 



Two adults from Pulo Jimaja, Anamba Islands, are somewhat less 

 brownish above, as well as very slightly darker below, but nevertheless 

 agree in all details of coloration quite closely with the birds from the 

 Seychelles Islands, and tliffer thus quite remarkably from Collocalia 

 juciphaga fuciphaga, by whose range the Anamba Islands are pretty 

 well surrounded. In all measurements excepting that of the wing 

 these two specimens exceed the measurements of fuciphaga and equal 

 or even surpass those of elaphra; but the wing-quills are molting and 

 not fullj^ grown, and there are indications from the relative length of 

 the primaries that the length of the wing would have become when 

 perfect almost if not quite as great as that of elaphra. In light of pre- 

 sent knowledge, therefore, it seems best to refer to elaphra, with the 

 above explanation, these two examples from the Anamba Islands, 

 even though by so doing elaphra presents an anomalous geographical 

 distribution. Should, however, a satisfactory series show the Anamba 

 bird to be really much smaller than that from the vSeychelles Islands, 

 and reasonably constant in its slight color differences, it ought 

 probably to be separated subspecifically. 



Measurements of two adults of Collocalia fuciphaga elaphra are hero 

 given : 



Collocalia brevirostris (McClelland). 



Hirundo brevirostris McClelland, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1839, p. 155. 



Chars, sp. — Similar to Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga, but much 

 larger; tail less deeply emarginate; and rump noticeably lighter than 

 the very dark back. 



Wing, 124-127; tail, 55-59; exposed culmen, 5.5; tarsus, 10 mm. 



Type locality. — Assam. 



Geographical distribution. — Himalaya Mountains from Dalhousie, 

 about 76° east longitude, east through Nepal and Sikhim to Assam 

 and Manipur. 



This form has been until comparatively recent years usually consid- 



'• Type. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April 



ered identical -nith CoUocalia imicolor, from which, however, it may 

 readily be distinguished by its feathered tarsi, darker, less brownish 

 upper surface, with rump appreciably lighter than the back. It is 

 most closely allied to CoUocalia fuciphaga, and by Dr. Hartert is con- 

 sidered a subspecies of this; but its large size and other characters, 

 combined with its isolated range, so far as C. fuciphaga is concerned, 

 quite clearly indicate its specific distinctness. Furthermore, there is, 

 so far as is known at present, no intergradation in size between CoUocalia 

 brevirostris and any form of CoUocalia fuciphaga; and the race of the 

 latter, C. f. elaphra, which is nearest in size is most different in color. 

 The so-called intermediate specimens from the western Himalayas, 

 mentioned by Dr. Hartert,'" h&xe proved to be examples of CoUocalia 

 unicolor, a form belonging to the group without feathers on the tarsus, 

 and have thus no ijearing on the question. Therefore, until actual 

 proof of intergradation with CoUocalia fuciphaga be forthcoming, the 

 present form should stand as a full species. 



CoUocalia lowi (Sliarpe). 



Cypselus lowi Sharpe, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1879, p. 333. 



Cypselus labuanensis , Ibis, 1879, p. 116, in text {nomen nudum). 



Chars, .sp. — Like CoUocalia innominata, but riuiip without a well- 

 defined light band. 



Wing, 127-134; tail, 50-57; e.xposed culmen, 5; tarsus, 10-12 mm. 



Tijpe locality. — Labuan Island, northern Borneo. 



Geographical distribution. — Northern Borneo ; Palawan Island, Philip- 

 ]3ine Islands; Anamba Islands; accidental in Sumatra and on Nias 

 Island (Hartert). 



This species resembles CoUocalia leucopygia and CoUocalia innomi- 

 nata in possessing dark shaft lines on the lower surface, and in this it 

 differs with them from all the other members of the subgenus. In 

 color above and below — except for the lack of a light rmnp band — 

 as well as in size and proportions, it is identical with CoUocalia innomi- 

 nata. It is so much larger, and usually has the tail so much less 

 ileeply emarginate, than CoUocalia fuciphaga and ah subspecies of the 

 latter that further comparison is unnecessary. One specimen in the 

 United States National ]\Iuseum has the tail by no means square, but 

 consideral^h' emarginated, from which it is evident that there is con- 

 siderable indi\-idual variation in this regard. 



Subgenus COLLOCALIA Gray. 



Chars, subgen. — Tarsus entirely without feathers. 

 Type. — Hirumh esculenta Linnteus. 

 " Cat. Birds Brit. Mus., XVI, 1892, p. 502. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



191 



Collocalia origenia sp. nov. 



Chars, sp. — Resembling Collocalia whitehcadi, but upper parts much 

 darker, more blackish, and more uniform, the rimap not appreciabh' 

 lighter than the back ; under sm-face darker, and throat not decided!}' 

 paler than abdomen. 



Geographical distribution. — Mindanao, Philippine Islands. 



Description.— Type, adult male, Xo. 192,162 U. S. N. M. ; Mount Apo, 

 4,000 feet, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, July 4, 1904; Dr. E. A. 

 Mearns. Upper surface uniform brownish black, the rump not Hghter, 

 but wings and the distinctly forked tail more brownish, their feathers 

 paler along the inner margins; entire ventral surface uniform smoky 

 hair brown, the throat not paler ; sides of head and neck darker brown 

 than the under parts; a blackish spot in front of the eye; lining of wing 

 blackish brown. 



This new species was discovered b}' Dr. Mearns during his recent 

 trip to the island of ilindanao, the four adults obtaineil ha\-ing been 

 brought by natives who had found them in a cave on Mount Apo ; and 

 we are indebted to him for the privilege of describing them. 



In its large size, deeply emarginate tail, and lack of tarsal feathering 

 Collocalia origenis agrees with Collocalia whitehcadi, but is readily dis- 

 tinguishable by the dark colors, particularly on the. upper parts which 

 are even more blackish than in Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga from the 

 Philippines. There is a slight sexual difference in this species, appa- 

 rent in our series of two adult males and two adult females, l)ut it is 

 possibly not constantly distinctive: the females are somewhat more 

 brownish above, and slightly paler below. A very young bird, with 

 wings and tail but little grown, taken by Dr. Mearns, Juh' 11, 1904, 

 at Todaya, altitude 4,000 feet, on Mount Apo, is fully as blackish on 

 the upper parts as the adults, and somewhat darker, decidedlj^ more 

 grayish on the ventral sm-face. 



Measurements of the adults are as follows; 



Sex. 



Locality. 



Date. 



Wing. 



Tail l^xposedi 7T„_„,, 

 •'""• Culmen.l ^"'^^^- 



Average 132.8 



54.5 5.6 



13.4 



" Type. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Collooalia whiteheadi Grant. 



Culloculia whiteheadi Grant, Ibis, 1S95, p. 459. 



Chars, sp. — Similar in color to Collocalia lowi, but dark shaft streaks 

 on lower parts less distinct : averaging slightly larger, with iinfeathered 

 tarsi, and usually more deeplj- emarginate tail. 



Wing, 127-140; tail, 50-57; exposed culmen, 5; tarsus, 11.5-13 mm. 



Type locality. — Monte Data, highlands of Lepanto. northern Luzon, 

 Philippine Islands. 



Geographical distribution. — Islands of Luzon and Palawan, Philippine 

 Islands. 



This very distinct species may be easily distinguished from all the 

 others with unfeathered tarsi, excepting Collocalia origenis, by its ^•ery 

 large size, and from that form by the well-marked color characters 

 already detailed. Specimens from Palawan are smaller than those 

 from Luzon, touching the minimum of measurements above given, 

 and also appear to be more brownish on the upper jjarts — differences 

 \\-hich, should they pro^■e reasonably constant, would entitle the 

 Palawan l^ird to subspecific rank. 



Collocalia unioolor unioolor (Jerdon). 



Iliruiido uiiicolur Jerdon, Madras Journ., XI, 1S40, p. 23S. 

 Cypseliis concolor Blyth, Journ. As. tSoc. Bengal, XI, pt. 2, 1S42, p. 8S6 (nom. 

 nov. pro Hirundo unicolor Jerdon). 



Chars, subsp. — Resembling Collocalia irhiteheadi, but much smaller; 

 more brownish and more uniform abo\-e, the rumjj not apprecialily 

 paler than the back, the pileum but little if any darker; lower surface 

 rather more brownish and more uniform, the throat usuall}- not lighter 

 than the abdomen: lining of wing lighter. 



Wing. 112-120.5; tail, 50-56; exposed culmen, 4-4.5; tarsus, 9-10 

 mm. 



Type locality. — Coonoor Pass, Nilghiri Hills, southern India. 



Geographical distributio7i. — Ceylon; and the western coast region of 

 southern India, north to \'engurla; western Himalayas. 



Althovigh this species has commoiJy been either synonymized with 

 Collocalia. fuciphaga or treated as a subspecies of it, the eutirel.v un- 

 feathered tarsi are a character fully sufficient for specific recognition; 

 and furthermore the upper surface is more brownish than in even the 

 least blackish forms of CoUoclia fuciphaga. In fact Collocalia uni- 

 color is really more closely allied to Collocalia whiteheadi than to Col- 

 localia fuciphaga! Dr. Hartert has given" as a reason for considering 

 C. unicolor a subspecies of C. fuciphaga that some Celebes birds similar 

 to C. unicolor in color, which he refers to C. fuciphaga, have no tarsal 



' Ibis, 1896, p. 369 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



feathers ; but these have hardly bearing on the question, for they without 

 much doubt belong to Collocalia unicolor amelis. The present form is 

 said to occur in the western Himalaya Mountains, but careful compari- 

 son of a satisfactory series from this locality with t}-pical examples 

 from southern India would possibly show subspecific differences. Im- 

 mature birds of Collocalia unicolor are rather darker, more sooty than 

 adults, both above and below. 



Collocalia unicolor amelis subsp. nov. 



Chars, subsp. — Similar to Collocalia unicolor unicolor, but less brown- 

 ish and less uniform above, the rump usually appreciably paler than 

 the back, the pileum decidedly darker ; lower surface rather less brown- 

 ish and less uniform, the throat usually decidedly lighter than the 

 abdomen; lining of wing darker; tail usually rather less deeply 

 emarginate. 



Geographical distribution. — Philippine Islands; Island of Guam; 

 ? Celebes ; ? Louisiade Archipelago. 



Description. — Type, adult male. No. 189,931 U. S. N. M.; Irisan, Ben- 

 guet, Luzon, Philippine Islands, May 19, 1903; R. C. ilcGregor and A. 

 Celestino. Upper parts dark sooty brown with a greenish tinge and 

 but little gloss, the head darker, the rump slightly paler ; wings and tail 

 darker than the back — blackish brown with a greenish sheen, the inner 

 webs of the wing-quills dull and paler brown; lower sm-face gi'ayish 

 brown, darkest on the lower tail-coverts, palest on the throat and 

 jugulum; lining of wing blackish brown. "Iris brown, bill and claws 

 black ; legs dark reddish brown. ' ' 



Several specimens of this new form, identified as Collocalia white- 

 headi, were some time since received from the Philippine Museum by 

 the U. S. National Museum. Notwithstanding the similarity of pro- 

 portions (including the forking of the tail), the very great difference 

 in size renders it easily distinguishable from C. whiteheadi on even 

 superficial examination. From Collocalia francica and other light- 

 rumped species Collocalia unicolor amelis is at once to be separated 

 by its lack of the whitish band on the rump. Its nearest relative 

 is, of course, Collocalia unicolor unicolor of southern India, from 

 which, though similar in size, it differs as above mentioned; but com- 

 parison of a series of each of these forms shows noneof the characters 

 to be quite constant, hence amelis must rank as a subspecies. The 

 tarsi in C. u. amelis are entirely devoid of feathers, therefore no special 

 comparison is really necessary with Collocalia fuciphaga and its allies, 

 e.xcept for specimens of fuciphaga that have accidentally lost the tarsal 

 13 




194 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



feathering. In color C. u. amelis differs from C. fuciphaga fuciphaga 

 by reason of paler ^'entral surface, particularly the throat, and more 

 brownish upper parts, with lighter rump. It is paler, more brownish 

 above than C. f. restita, with the rump noticeably lighter than the 

 back. Compared with C. /. elaphra it has the upper parts less brown- 

 ish, the crown particularly more blackish, the rump less different 

 from the back; lower surface less uniform, the posterior portion darker; 

 and size somewhat less. 



The small Celebes birds without tarsal feathering, mentioned by Mr. 

 Grant,'* belong probably to this subspecies, for they are evidently not 

 CollocaUa fuciphaga. Also the birds from St. Aigan Island, in the 

 Louisiade Archipelago, said by Dr. Hartert " to be light below, to have 

 unfeathered tarsi, and to build nests different from C. fuciphaga, are 

 probably to be referred to C. u. amelis, though possibly subspecifically 

 distinct. Aside from the above, CollocaUa u. amelis is not at present 

 certainly known except from the Island of Guam, where taken by Dr. 

 E. A. Mearns, July 20, 1905, and from the Philippine archipelago, where 

 it has been obtained on the Islands of Luzon, Verde, Cagayancillo, 

 Sibuyan, Panay, Mindoro, Mindanao, and Palawan. It ma}', however, 

 be quite generally distributed over the East India Islands, and may 

 have been recorded as CollocaUa fuciphaga from various localities, since 

 hitherto it seems to have been confused with that species, because its 

 unfeathered tarsi were not considered significant. 



Measurements of part of the U. S. National Museum series of Collo- 

 caUa iinicolor ainelis are as follows: 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Collocalia leuoophsea (Peale). 



Macropteryx leucophaeusPealb. United States Explor. Exped., \^II, 18-lS, p. 



178, pi. XLIX, fig. 3. 

 Collocalia cinerea Cassin, United States Explor. Exped., Mamni. and Ornith., 



1858, p. 183, pi. XII, fig. 4 (Tahiti Island, Society Islands) (nee Gmelin). 



Chars, sp. — Similar to Collocalia imicolor unicolor, but larger; upper 

 parts, including; wings and tail, more brownish, with less metallic 

 sheen, and less uniform, the pileum somewhat darker, the rump paler, 

 than the back; feathers of the lores with light brownish instead of 

 white bases. 



Wing, 120-127: tail, 56-59; exposed culmen, 4.5-5; tarsus, 9.5-10 

 mm. 



Typelocality. — Tahiti Island, Society Islands. 



Geographical distribution. — Tahiti Island, Society Islands, Pacific 

 Ocean. 



This very distinct species is superficially somewhat like CollocaUu 

 juciphaga elaphra from the Seychelles, but lacks the tarsal feathers; 

 is larger, more brownish above, with less metallic gloss; much darker, 

 duller, more imiform on the lower surface; and has brownish in place of 

 white bases to the loral feathers. It is of course still more different 

 from Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga, being much larger, decidedly more 

 brownish, with scarcely any metallic gloss above, and having neither 

 feathers on the tarsi nor white bases to the feathers of the lores. On 

 the Island of Tahiti alone is this species positively known to occur, 

 since all the specimens from the ^larquesas Islands now- at hand prove 

 to belong to Collocalia ocista. All previous records of this species from 

 the Marquesas Islands therefore need verification, though of course 

 its occurrence there is by no means improbable. 



Even if the name given to this species by Cassin — Collocalia cinerea-^ 

 — were not, as has already been shown by Dr. Hartert,-- a mistaken 

 identification of his specimen with the Hirundo cinerea of Gmelin,-^ 

 which is a swallow — Atticora cinerea — it would still not be the tenable 

 name for the present species, since it is ten years posterior to the Ma- 

 cropteryx leucophaeus of Peale,-^ and was based on the same type speci- 

 men which is yet in the U. S. National iluseum. 



Collocalia thespesia sp. nov. 



Chars, sp. — Similar to Collocalia francica germani, but the wing 

 slightly, the tail very much longer; upper parts lighter, more brownish; 



" United States Explor. Exped., Mamm. and Ornith., 1858, p. 183, pi. XII, fig. i. 



» Cat. Birds. Brit. Mus., XVI, 1892, p. 502. 



'3 Syst. \at., I, ,ii, 1788, p. 1026. 



" UnUed States Explor. Exped., VIII, 1848, p. 178, pi. XLIX, fig. 3. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



bases of the loral feathers pale brown instead of pure white; sides of 

 head and neck, together with entire lower surface, excepting the anal 

 region, much darker and more uniform. 



Geographical distiibution. — Tahiti Island, Society Islands. 



Description. — Tj'pe, female adult; Tahiti Island, Soeiet}- Islands, 

 November 14, 1899; C. H. Townsend. Pileum clove brown; cervi.Y, 

 back, upper tail-coverts, and part of rump rather lighter and slightly 

 more rufescent with scarcely any metallic gloss; rump with a very 

 light brown band, slightly whitish along the edges of the feathers, and 

 similar to that of CoUocalia francica francica, though apparently not 

 quite so broad or so pale, the feathers with somewhat though not 

 very conspicuously defined deeper brown shafts ; wings and tail darker 

 than upper parts, and somewhat blackish with a slight purplish or 

 bluish sheen, but the basal portion of the rectrices and the inner edge 

 of the wing-quills decidedly more brownish — much like the back; 

 median and lesser wing-coverts with the tertials also rather lighter, 

 more brownish than the quills, and somewhat glossed with greenish; 

 sides of head clove brown almost as dark as the crown, the feathers of 

 the lores with lighter brown bases; sides of neck brown like the cervix; 

 lower surface the same, but lighter, becoming still a little paler on the 

 abdomen, considerably so and appreciably more rufescent on the 

 crissum ; lining of wing clove brown. 



Wing, 122; tail, 58; exposed culmen, 5; tarsus, 10 mm. 



The single specimen of this new and remarkable species was ob- 

 tained by ilr. Townsend during the cruise of the ".\lbatross" already 

 mentioned. It differs very strongly from CoUocalia francica spodio- 

 pygia, the light-rumped form from the Samoan Islands, in its larger 

 size, lighter, much more brownish upper parts, rather more narrow 

 rump band, darker, more uniform ventral surface, and especially,, as 

 from aU other species of the entire genus excepting C. leucophaea and 

 C. ocista, by the brownish instead of pure white bases of the loral 

 feathers. From CoUocalia leucophaea it may of course be easily dis- 

 tinguished by the pale band across the rump, as well as by somewhat 

 less brownish upper surface and decidedh' paler anal region. From 

 CoUocalia ocista it differs in lack of tarsal feathers, in more brownish 

 upper surface, pale rump band, and lighter anal region. 



The only published name that can by any possibihty apply to this 

 species is Hirundo peruviana Forster,^ based on a specimen said to 

 have been obtained on Tahiti. But unless the description of this bird 

 is very erroneous it cannot refer to thespesia, as the following quotation 



^ Descript. Anim., 1844, p. 240. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIL>ADELPHIA. 197 



will show :" Corpus totum supra cum remigibus, rectricibusque nigro- 

 nitens. Uropygium, gula, pectus, abdomen, crissum cinereo-fuliginosa."-^ 

 The upper surface in thespesia is by no means "nigro-niteiis," being 

 dark brown, scarcely more blackish than the same part in Collocalia 

 levcophaea ; while the rump is not of the same color as the dark gray 

 ventral surface, but is very much paler, even whitish. The description 

 of peruviana very much better fits Collocalia francica spodiopygia, to 

 which it should probably be referred. 



Collocalia francica francica (Gmeliu). 



Hirundo francica Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, ii, 17S8, p. 1017. 



Hirundo fmncisca Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. d'Hist. Nat., XIV, 1817, p. 525 



(Mauritius). 

 Hirundo francicB Lesson, Traite d'Ornith., 1831, p. 270 (Mauritius). 



Chars, sp. — Like Collocalia unicolor amelis, but somewhat smaller; 

 rather more brownish above, with a distinct broad whitish or brownish 

 white band across the rump; paler below, especially on the abdomen 

 and crissum; lining of wing paler, more brownish. 



Wing, 112-114; tail, 51-52; e.xposed culmen, 4^5; tarsus, 8.5-10 mm. 



Type locality. — Mauritius Island. 



Geographical distribution. — Islands of Mauritius and Bourbon; 

 ? Ceylon. 



This form bears some resemblance to Collocalia innominata, but is 

 of com'se much smaller ; more brownish above, with a paler rump band 

 which has not conspicuously darker shafts; darker below, particularly 

 posteriorly, without noticeably darker shaft lines; and lacks feathers 

 on the tarsus. It seems to be confined to the Islands of Mauritius and 

 Bourbon, for although several times accredited to Madagascar its 

 occurrence there remains to be confu-med; and all the East Indian 

 records belong to other subspecies. 

 Collocalia francica townsendi subsp. nov. 



Chars, subsp. — Similar to Collocalia francica francica, but wing 

 longer; upper surface darker, more blackish, and more glossed with 

 greenish, the rump band on the contrary more whitish; lower surface 

 darker. 



Geographical distribution. — Tonga Islands. 



Description. — Type, adult female; Eua Island, Tonga (Friendly) 

 Islands, November 28, 1899; C. H. Townsend. Upper parts, including 

 wings and tail, brownish black with a greenish metallic sheen, the inner 

 webs of the rectrices, especially on their basal portions, and particularly 

 the inner webs of the wing-quills, more brownish; a conspicuous 



=' Ibid., p. 241. " 




198 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



brownish white — almost pure white — band on the rump, its feathers 

 with slightly though not very noticeably dusky shafts; sides of head 

 clove brown, the lores darker, with white bases ; sides of neck somewhat 

 lighter brown; lower surface brownish gray, darkest on chin and the 

 longest lower tail-coverts, decidedly paler, even almost whitish, on 

 lower abdomen and anal region; lining of wing clove brown. 



From Collocalia francica spodiopygia, to which this form has hereto- 

 fore been referred, it differs in considerably more greenish glossy upper 

 surface, much more whitish rump, anil paler posterior lower parts. 

 It has the most whitish rump of any subspecies of C. francica, and 

 seems furthermore to be one of the best marked of these. It is another 

 of the novelties brought back by ilr. C. H. Townsend from his Pacific 

 cruise in 1899-1900, and was obtained in only the Tonga group — on 

 Eua, Vavau and Niue Islands. 



ileasurements of these specimens are as follows: 



Collocalia francica terraereginae (Ramsay). 



Cypselus terrc^-regince Ramsaj', Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1874, p. 601. 

 Collocalia infuscata Salvador!, Atti R. Accad. Sci. Torino, XV, 1880, p. 348 

 (Ternate Island, Molucca Islands), 



Chars, subsp. — Similar to Collocalia francica francica, but somewhat 

 smaller; upper surface darker; posterior lower parts more deeply 

 colored, imparting thus a more uniform appearance to the ventral 

 surface; feathers of the light rump band with more conspicuously 

 blackish shaft lines. 



Wing, 110-111 ; tail, 48-53; exposed culmen, 5; tarsus, 8.7-10 mm. 



Type locality. — Cardwell, Rockingham Bay, Queenslanil, Australia. 



Geographical distribntio7u — Northern Queensland and southern New 

 Guinea to Jampea Island, Ternate Island and probably also other 

 islands of the Molucca group. 



This race may be distinguished from Collocalia francica spodiopygia 

 chieflj^ by its much smaller size, more conspicuously blackish shaft 



" Type. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



lines on the feathers of the Hght rump band, and by more glossy upper 

 surface. From CoUocalia francica townsendi it differs in shorter wing, 

 less whitish rump band with conspicuous blackish shaft lines, and 

 darker abdomen. 



The subspecific-separation of the present form is made principally 

 on the basis of the bird from Ternate Island, described by Count 

 Salvadori as CoUocalia infuscata,-^ which is certainly different from 

 both francica and spodiopygia, although considered by Dr. Hartert as 

 inseparable from the latter.™ Although no specimens from northern 

 Queensland, the Cypsclus terracreginac of Ramsay ,^°have been examined 

 in the present connection, the characters of size and coloration assigned 

 them agree apparently best with this form, for which therefore terrae- 

 reginae by priority becomes the proper subspecific name. Should, 

 however, the birds from Queensland, which are undoubtedh' not to be 

 referred to spodiopygia, and probablj' not to francica, ultimately prove 

 to be different from those of the Molucca Islantls, the latter must stand 

 as Colloccdia francica infuscata Salvadori. 



CoUocalia francica spodiopygia (Peale). 



Hirundo peruviana Forster, Descript. Anim., 1S44, p. 240 (Tahiti Island, 



Society Islands) (tiec Gnielin). 

 Macropteri/x spodiopygius Peale. United States Explor. Exped., VIII, 1S48, 



p. 176. pi. XLIX, fig. 2 (Upolu Island. Samoa Islands). 

 Herse forsteri Hartlaub, Journ. f. Urnith., 1S54, p. 169 (nom. nov. pro 



Hirundo peruriana Forster). 



CJmrs. siibsp. — Like Colloccdia francica francica, but wing longer; 

 upper parts more blackish and less glossy; also lower surface, partic- 

 ularly the abdomen, darker; rump band less whitish. 



Wing, 116-117; tail, 4S-.54; exposed culmen, 4-5; tarsus, 8-9 mm. 



Type locality. — Upolu Island, Samoa Islands. 



Geographical distribution. — Solomon, Samoan, and Fiji Islands; 

 Tahiti Island. 



This dark form from western Polj'nesia certainly deserves recogni- 

 tion on good average characters as distinguishetl from CoUocalia fran- 

 cica francica with which it has heretofore been sj-nonymized. It is, 

 indeed, both in color and size, apparently nearer CoUocalia francica 

 inexpectata, from which it differs chiefly in its smaller size, less 

 glossy upper surface, lighter rump band, and obsolescence, usually 

 absence, of dark shaft lines on rump and under parts. Peale's type of 



" Atti R. Accad. Sci. Torino, XV, ISSO, p. 348. 

 » Cat. Birds Brit. Mus., XVI, 1892, p. 504. 

 ^"Proc. Zool. Soc. Land., 1874, p. 601. 




2C0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE\rr OF [April, 



spodiopygia is still in the United States National Aluseum, and fairiy 

 well preserved. 



The name Hirundo peruviana Forster,'' based on specimens from 

 Tahiti, seems recently to have been pretty generally ignored or over- 

 looked; but that it in all probability applies to t4iis form, as some 

 authors have indicated, notwithstanding that there is no other record 

 from Tahiti, may easily be seen by examination of the excellent orig- 

 inal description.^^ It is, however, unavailable for use in the present 

 case, since it is preoccupied bj' Hirundo peruviana Gmelin,^' which is 

 certainly some other bird. The Herse jorstan of Hartlaub ^* is, as he 

 states, a renaming of Forster's Hirundo peruviana, but is antedated 

 by Macropteryx spodiopygius Peale.'' 



Collocalia francica inexpeotata Hume. 



CoUocalia inexpedata Hume, Stray Feathers, I, 1873, p. 296. 



Chars, subsp. — Similar to CoUocalia francica frajicica, but larger; 

 upper surface decidedly darker, less Ijrownish, and with more metallic 

 greenish gloss; wings and tail with more metallic bluish and purplish 

 tinge; rump much darker, making its light band less well defined, the 

 feathers with much more distinct blackish shaft lines; lower parts, 

 particularlj' abdomen and crissum, darker, more uniform, and with 

 more evident dusky shaft lines; 



Wing, 11-4-124; tail, 50-.54; exposed culmen, 4.5-5; tarsus, 9.5-10.5 

 mm. 



Type locality. — Button Island, Andaman Islands. 



Geogi-aphical distribution. — Southern Andaman Islands; Nicobar 

 Islands; Pulo Tioman; and both coasts of the southern part of the 

 Malay Peninsula; ? accidental in Amherst, Tenasserim (Hartert). 



This race may be distinguished from CoUocalia j. townsctvK by some- 

 what larger average size, much darker rump band with blackish shaft 

 lines more conspicuous, and decidedly more deeply colored posterior 

 lower parts, with evident darker shaft lines; from CoUocalia f. terrae- 

 reginae by much greater size, darker rump band, and more noticeable 

 dark shaft lines on abdomen and crissum. It differs from Collocalia 

 francica spodiopygia in its somewhat greater size, more glossy upper 

 surface, more bluish and purplish metallic sheen on wings and tail, 

 presence of appreciably dusky shaft lines on the posterior lower parts, 



s' Descript. Anim., 1844, p. 240. 



^ Ibid. 



'^ Syst. Nat., I, ii, 1788, p. 1025. 



" Jourii. j. Ornm., 1854, p. 169. 



« United States Explor. Eiped., VIII, 1848, p. 176, pi. XLIX, fig. 2. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



and in duller, less well-defined rump band, the feathers of which have 

 much more conspicuous dark shaft lines. 



Birds from the southern part of the Malay Peninsula — both eastern 

 and western sides — as well as from Pulo Tioman, off the east coast, 

 average larger than those from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands; 

 but this is apparently too slight and inconstant, in the absence of any 

 accompanying color difference, to warrant recognition by name. In 

 C. /. inexpectata as in other forms there is considerable individual color 

 variation, evident in this case chiefly on the lower parts and the light 

 rump band. The single specimen of inexpectata recorded by Dr. Har- 

 tert '* from Amherst," Tenasserim, is possibly rather to be referred to 

 Collocalia f. germam. for it is more probably an unusually dark example 

 of the latter, whose home is near by. than a stray from the far-off south- 

 ern Andaman Islands, 



Collocalia franoica germanl Oustalet. 



Collocalia germani Oustalet, Bull. Soe. Philom. Paris, 1S76, pp. 1-3. 

 Collocalia jrancica, subsp. ,3. merguiensis Hartert, Cat. Birds Brit. Mus., 

 XVI, 1892, p. 506 (Mergui, Tenasserim). 



Chars, suhsp. — Similar to Collocalia jrancica Jrancica, but larger; 

 upper surface more glossed with metallic greenish; light rum]D band 

 with more evident blackish shaft lines; posterior lower surface darker, 

 and with more conspicuous dark shaft lines. 



Wing, 115-121. .5 (average, 118.3); tail, 49-52.5 (average, 51.3); 

 exposed culmen, 4.5-5 (average, 4.9); tarsus, 9-11 (average, 10) mm.^' 



Type locality. — Condore Island, China Sea, off the southeastern 

 coast of Cochin China. 



Geographical distribution. — Mergui Archipelago; Tenasserim; Malay 

 Peninsula south to Lower Siam; Condore Island, Cochin China; Phihp- 

 pine Islands. 



Like many of the forms of Collocalia. this race is, on account of 

 individual variation, difficult to determine satisfactorily without a 

 sufficient series, but it is nevertheless worthy of recognition. It is 

 distinguishable from Collocalia f. spodiopygia by its lighter, more 

 greenish glossy upper surface, more metallic bluish and purplish sheen 

 on wings and tail ; well-defined blackish shaft streaks on the feathers 

 of the light rump band; paler lower parts, with dark shaft streaks on 

 abdomen; and somewhat larger size. From Colloccdia f. townscjidi it 

 may be separated by rather greater size ; lighter, more brownish upper 



" Cat. Birds Brit. Mus., XVI, 1892, p. 505; Tierreich, I, 1897, p. 69. 

 ^'' Ten specimens. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



parts; less -n-hitish rump band and darker abdomen, both with more 

 distinct dusky or blackish shaft lines. From CoUocalia f. tcrraercginae it 

 may be distinguished by its much larger size, lighter, more lirownish 

 upper surface, and more conspicuous dark shaft lines on the posterior 

 lower parts. From CoUocalia /. inexpectata it differs in its decidedly 

 paler under surface; lighter, more brownish upper parts; and more 

 prominent, le.ss brownish, light rump band ; but occasional intermediate 

 individuals occur that are difficult to distinguish. The dark shaft lines 

 of the lower surface vary much in different Individ vials, being apparently 

 most evident in immature birds. The measiu-ements of this form given 

 by Hartert ^' are rather too large, as may be seen by reference to the 

 above averages, but were probably taken from a limited niunber of 

 specimens. A series of birds from Trong, Lower Siam, and another 

 from the Philippine archipelago seem to be identical, and together 

 are certainly all referable to this race, although a few of those from 

 Cagayan Sulu, in the southwestern Philippines, are more blackish 

 above and show in this, but not in size, some vergence toward CoUocalia 

 francica terraereginae. There are examples in the United States National 

 Museum from the following islands of the Philippines: Panay; Cagayan 

 Sulu; and Cagayancillo, in the Cagayanes group. It has also been 

 recorded as CoUocalia francica from Cuyo, Negros and Calamianes. 

 All Philippine records of both francica and inexpectata refer of course 

 to germani. 



The identity of CoUocalia germani Oustalet and CoUocalia francica 

 merguiensis Hartert may be considered as conclusively established, for 

 Dr. Hartert assures us ^^ that he has compared the tj-pes. That 

 germani is rightly considered a subspecies of CoUocalia francica seems 

 to be ecjually certain, for Dr. R. Bowdler Sharpe, who at our request 

 carefully examined the series of merguiensis in the British JIuseum, 

 informs us *° that there is not the slightest indication of tarsal feather- 

 ing on any of the specimens. 



CoUocalia troglodytes Gray. 



CoUocalia troglodytes Gray, Gen. Birds, I, 1S45, p. .5.5, pi. 19. 



Chars, sp. — ^'ery much smaller than CoUocalia francica francica; 



upper parts, including wings and tail, black with a metallic greenish 



or bluish gloss; a pure white, well-defined rump band, the feathers of 



which have blackish shafts and most of them dark tips; abdomen 



" Cat. Birds Brit. Mus., XVI, 1892, p. 506; Tierreich, I, 1897, p. 69. 



" In litt. 

 *" In litt. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 203 



white or whitish in contrast to most of the remaining more or less 

 deeply brownish lower parts; under tail-coverts like the back; lining 

 of the wing rather more brownish. 



Wing, 86-96; tail, 38-42; exposed culmen, 3..5; tarsus, 9-9.5 mm. 



Type locality. — Philippine Islands. 



Geographical distribution. — Philippine Islands. 



This very distinct species differs markedly from all the preceding 

 forms with unfeathered tarsi' in its small size, deeply blackish upper 

 surface, white abdomen, and peculiar white rump band. It is super- 

 ficially very similar to Collocalia leucopygia, but aside from the lack of 

 tarsal feathers is easily distinguished from that species by its more 

 greenish upper surface, broad blackish tips to the white feathers of the 

 rump band ; and more extensively blacki.sh lower tail-C(iverts. There 

 is considerable variation in the wing-length of C. troglodytes, but this 

 does not seem to be correlated with different geographical areas. 



The species has been obtained on the following islands of the Philip- 

 pine archipelago: Mindanao, Palawan, Siciuijor, Cebu, Masbate, Negros, 

 Guimaras, Panay, Romblon, Sibuyan, Mindoro, Luzon, Marinduque, 

 Samar, Leyte, and Ticao. 



Collooalia uropygialis Gray. 



Collocalia uropi/yialis Gray, .\nn. and Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 3, XVII, 1S66> 

 p. 123. 



Chars, sp. — Similar to Colloccdia troglodytes, but rather larger; feath- 

 ers of the white band on the rump without blackish shafts or tips ; most 

 of the rectrices usually with white spots on the basal portion of inner 

 webs; some of the under wing-coverts and lower tail-coverts with 

 whitish tips or margins. 



Wing, 89-99; tail, 38-44; tarsus, 7 mm. 



Type locality. — Aneiteum Island, New Hebrides Islands. 



Geographical distribution. — New Caledonia and New Hebrides 

 Islands. 



Readily distinguished from all the other light-rumped forms of the 

 genus by the white spots on the tail-feathers; with the remaining 

 s]5ecies it needs no special comparison. 



Collocalia marginata Salvadori. 



Collocalia marginata Salvadori, Atti R. Acad. Sci. Torino, XVII, 18S2, p. 



448. 

 Collocalia cebuensis Kutter, Journ. f. Oriiith., 18S2, p. 171 (Celju Island, 



Philippine Islands). 



Chars, sp. — Somewhat like Collocalia uropygialis, but larger; rather 

 more greenish above; rump without a white band, but its feathers 

 with conspicuous white edgings; rectrices never with white spots. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Wing, 103-107; tail, 41-43; exposed culmen, 3.5-4; tarsus, 7.5-9 mm. 



Type locality. — Cebu Island, Philippine Islands. 



Geographical distribution. — Philippine Islands. 



This interesting bird, supposed until recently to be very rare, bids 

 fair to be found distributed pretty generally throughout the Philip- 

 pine archipelago. Up to the present time it has b^en ascertained to 

 occur on the following islands: Cebu, Masbate, Luzon {McGregor), 

 Mindoro, Calayan, and Sibuyan. 



It scarcely needs close comparison with any other memlaer of the 

 genus except Collocalia linchi, and to distinguish it from this there 

 should be no difficulty. The white margins of the brownish gray feath- 

 ers of the throat and breast are usually broad and conspicuous, but 

 occasionally in even unworn specimens are almost obsolete. 



Collocalia linchi linohi Horsfleld and Moore. 



1 Hemiprocne jucivora Streubel, Isis, 1848, p. 369 (East Indies). 

 Collocalia linchi Horsfleld and Moore, Cat. Birds Mus. East Ind. Comp., I, 

 1854, p. 100 (Java). 



Chars, subsp. — Very much like Collocalia marginata, but feathers of 

 the rump without white margins ; upper surface usually more brightly 

 colored; throat and breast generally with less conspicuous white 

 edgings. 



Type locality. — Java. 



Geographical distribution. — Java; Lombok; Kangean Islands; Suma- 

 tra, including the islands along its western coast; Singapore, and the 

 southern part of the Malay Peninsula; Borneo(?). 



This species is shown by the considerable amomit of material from 

 various parts of its range now in the United States National Museum 

 to be divisible into several recognizable races which are diagnosed 

 below. Aside from the evident geographical variation there are some 

 differences that seem to be due to wear of the jjlumage and to obtain 

 alike in all the forms. The color of the upper parts changes little 

 through se.x, age, or season, although there is a normal but not very 

 considerable amount of individual variation. The deep gray of the 

 anterior lower parts is decidedly more brownish when the feathers 

 become old ; and the white or whitish margins that in fre.sh plumage 

 are often very conspicuous on throat, breast, and under wing-coverts 

 sometimes almost entirely disappear through abrasion. Likewise the 

 broadly white edgings of sides, flanks, and lower breast wear off and 

 ultimately allow much of the slate gray bases of the feathers to show, 

 in this way decidedly darkening the general appearance of the parts. 



This form of Collocalia linchi, as compared with the other sub- 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



205 



species, is characterized b.y large size, ami by ver}' greenish upper parts, 

 including wings and tail, with but slight tinge and verj' little or no 

 admixture of bluish. The United States National Museum possesses a 

 fair series from Sikakap Strait, North Pagi Island, off the western coast 

 of Sumatra ; and a specimen from Singapore is also identical. Borneo is 

 doubtfully included in the range of this race, as we have examined no 

 specimens from that island, and its bird may be like that of either the 

 Natuna Islands or even the Philippines, or may prove to be an endemic 

 form. 

 Jleasurements of Collocalia linchi linchi are as follows: 



Sea:. 



Locality. 



Date. 



Wing. 



^-'- '^cX7>^-'- 



6" 



o 

 ? 

 ? 

 ? 



jSikakap Str., Xo. Pagi I. Nov. 12, 1902 



Singapore Aug. 28, 1879 



105 



103 



105.5 



104.5 



103.5 



105 



8.5 



9 



9 



8.5 



8.5 



9 



Average | 104.4 



42.6 4.5 



8.8 



Collocalia linchi cyanoptila subsp. nov. 



Chars, subsp. — Similar to Collocalia linchi linchi, with which it 

 agrees m size, but upper surface of head and body much more bluish 

 in shade, and with considerable admixture of bluish purple; wings, 

 and particularly the tail, decidedly more bluish. 



Geographical distribution. — Natuna Islands and Linga Island. 



Description.— T\^:,e, adidt female. No. 174,688, U. S. N. M.; Bung- 

 lu-an Island, Natuna Islands, July 1, 1900; Dr. W. L. Abbott. Upper 

 parts metallic dark bluish green, much mixed with bluish purple, 

 most noticeably so on posterior portion; taQ bluish green decidedly 

 tinged vrith purplish; wings sepia brown, dull metallic purplish on 

 most of their exposed portions, the coverts more brighth- colored, and 

 mixed with dark green; sides of head and neck, throat, breast, flanks, 

 and sides of bod}' brownish slate, the feathers of the lores with cottony 

 white bases, those of throat and breast with inconspicuous pale gray or 

 whitish tips, those of lower breast, sides, and flanks broadly margined 

 and terminated with white; median portion of abdomen white with 

 some narrow slaty shaft streaks ; lower tail-coverts dark bluish metallic 

 green, the longer ones inmiaculate, the shorter ones margined with 

 white; lining of wing dull dark metallic green. 




206 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



This new race is cjuite different from true CoUocalia lincM, the only 

 form of the species with which it agrees in size, and it may readily be 

 distinguished on even superficial comparison by the difference in the 

 color of the upper parts. The best and most uniform character is the 

 always much more bluish or purplish color of the upper surface of the 

 tail. A single adult male from Linga Island, southeast of Singapore, 

 is intermediate between cyanoptila and linchi; but there is so much 

 purplish and bluish in the color of the upper parts, and the tail is so 

 nearly like that of cyanoptila, that the specimen must apparently be 

 referred to the latter, although this island is far from the Natima 

 group, and in a location where linchi is the form we should naturally 

 expect to find. Further examples from Linga may, however, show 

 that the average characters of the bird found there will place it with 

 linchi. 



Measurements of the adults of CoUocalia linchi cyanoptila are as 

 follows : 



CoUocalia linchi affiuis Bcavan. 



CoUocalia affinis Beavan, Ibis, 1867, p. 318 (ex Tytler MS.). 



Chars, subsp. — Similar to CoUocalia linchi cyanoptila. but very much 

 smaller. 



Type locality. — Port Blair, South Andaman Island, Andaman 

 Islands. 



Geographical distribution. — Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 



This form, long ago described from the southern Andaman Islands 

 by Beavan, has hitherto usually been considered the same as linchi. 

 The satisfactory series obtained by Dr. W. L. Abbott in the Nicobar 

 Islantls, however, now conclusively establishes its claim to recognition. 

 It differs from true linchi in its much smaller size, and the decidedly 

 bluish or j)urplish shade of the upper siu'face, particularly the tail- 

 coverts and tail. 



" Type. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Measurements of Collocalia linchi afjinis are as below: 



207 



Collocalia linchi elachyptera subsp. nov. 



Chars, siibsp. — .-iimilar to Collocalia linchi affinis. but more greenish 

 on all the upper parts, particularly on back, wings, and tail. 



Geographical distribution. — Islands of the Mergui Archipelago. 



Description.— Type, adult male. No. 173,028. U. S. X. JI.; Bentinck 

 Island, Mergui Archipelago, March 9. 1900; Dr. W. L. Abbott. Upper 

 parts deep metallic green, with an appreciable bluish piu'ple tinge, 

 particularly on the upper tail-coverts; tail the same, but more bluish; 

 wings fuscous, the exposed portion of quills and primary coverts with 

 a dull metallic pm-plish sheen, the other superior coverts like the back; 

 lores dark brown, the feathers with pure white bases ; rest of sides of 

 head and neck, with chin, throat, and breast, dull brownish slate color, 

 the feathers of the throat and upper breast with pale grayish or whitish 

 tips; lower breast, sides, and flanks brownish slate with a slight metallic 

 greenish sheen, the feathers all broadly margined with white which 

 much obscures the darker color; middle of abdomen white with shaft 

 markings of dusky; exposed portions of lower tail-coverts dark metallic 

 greenish, the shortest brownish, all but the longest broadly bordered 

 with white; lining of wing dark brown, glossed with metallic green. 

 ' ' Bill black ; iris dark brown ; feet dark fleshy brown. ' ' 



This race is of course intermediate between Collocalia linchi afflnis, 

 from the Andaman Islands, and Collocalia I. isonota,*- from the Philip- 

 pines; but the differences that characterize it are readil}^ appreciable 

 in a series, as well as in a large proportion of individual speci- 

 mens, and seem, particularlj^ when its isolated range is taken into 

 account, quite sufficient for its recognition bj' name. It Ls readily dis- 

 tinguishable from true linchi by reason of its much inferior dimensions 



« Postea. 




208 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



and more bluish or purpli.sh upper parts, especially wings and tail; 

 from cyanoptila by its small size mid more greenish upper snrface, 

 including wings and tail. So far as known it does not occur outside 

 the Mergui Archipelago, where it has been taken on only Bentinck 

 Island; but it undoubtedly is to be foun<l on otlier islands of the 

 group, while there would seem to be no imiirobability of its occasional 

 if not regular occurrence on the adjacent mainland. 

 Measurements are subjoined: 



CoUocalia linchi isonota su-bsp. nov. 



Chars, subsp. — Resembling CoUocalia linchi elachyptera, but aver- 

 aging slightly larger; color of upper parts decidedly duller and some- 

 what less bluish or purplish. 



Geographical distribution. — Philippine Islands. 



Description.— Type, adult male, No. 192,610, U. S. N. M.; Irisan, 

 Benguet, Luzon, Phihppine Islands, June 3, 1903; R. C. McGregor 

 and A. Celestino. Upper surface dull, dark, metallic green, the 

 crown and upper tail-coverts with a slight bluish tinge; tail of the 

 same color, scarcely mf)re bluish; wings fuscous, the exposed surface 

 of the quills dull greenish blue with but little metallic sheen, the supe- 

 rior coverts like the back; lores dark brown, the feathers with pure 

 white bases; sides of head and neck, chin, throat, breast, sides, and 

 flanks brownish slate color, the throat and breast feathers with margins 

 of pale grayish or whitish, those of lower breast, of sides and flanks 

 so broadly bordered with white that the ground color is largely over- 

 laid; median portion of abdomen white, with very fine dusky shaft 

 lines; longest lower tail-coverts dull, dark, metallic green, slightly or 

 not at all margined with w-hitish, the shorter ones brownish with 

 ample white edges, or nearly all white with a dusky shaft-stripe; lining 

 of wing dark brown, slightly glossed with metallic greenish. 



This race differs from CoUocalia linchi linchi in its smaller size and 



" Type. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCTENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



209 



much duller, slightly more bluish upper parts ; from C. I. cyanoptila in 

 inferior size and much duller, more greenish upper surface; and from 

 C. /. afjinis in somewhat longer wing, slightly shorter tail, and decidedly 

 duller, more greenish upper parts, particularly the tail. 



Birds in juvenal plumage, even before their vdngs and tails are fully 

 grown, seem to be exactly like the adults in color above, and not ap- 

 preciably different below except for possiblj' broader, more e-\-ident 

 white margins on lower breast, sides, flanks, and lining of wing. 



This form of Collocalia linchi appears to be confined to the PhUip- 

 pine archipelago, and has been taken on only Luzon, ilindoro, Min- 

 danao, and Bongao. 



Measurements of three adults are as mider : 



Collocalia dodgei Eithmond. 



Collocalia dodgei Richmond, Smithson. Quart., II, 1905, p. 431. 



Chars, sp. — Resembling Collocalia linchi i^onota, but very much 

 smaller; upper parts still duller, more sooty, with an even more green- 

 ish metallic gloss. 



Wing, SS.5,-* tail, 33; exposed culmen, 3.5; tarsus, 7 nun. 



Type locality. — Mount Kina Balu, northeastern Borneo. 



Geographical distribution. — ilount Kina Balu, northeastern Borneo. 



Description. — Tj-pe, adult, sex unknown, Xo. 191,575, U. S. X. M.; 

 Mount Ivina Balu, Borneo, spring of 1904; George H. Goss and H. D. 

 Dodge. Upper parts dull brownish black with an appreciable oU- 

 green metallic gloss, the pileum shghtly darker; tail and superior tail- 

 coverts darker greenish, somewhat shaded with bluish and without 

 trace of white markings ; wings Uke the tail, but inner margin of quills 

 brownish with little or no metallic sheen, and upper wing-coverts, 

 with innermost secondaries, more greenish hke the back; sides of head 

 and neck, chin, tlu-oat, breast, sides, and flanks brownish slate, darkest 



" T>-pe. 



*' Dr. Richmond's measurement of the wing is too great (loc. cit.). 

 14 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Ajjril, 



on sides of head, the feathers of lores with pure white bases, those of 

 middle of lower throat and breast slightly, of the sides'and flanks more 

 or less broadly, margined with whitish ; centre of abdomen white ; lower 

 tail-coverts dusky with a slight greenish gloss, the longest ones nar- 

 rowly, the shorter ones conspicuously edged all around with white, 

 some of the shortest entirely white save for a narrow dusky shaft line; 

 imder wing-coverts blackish with the dull oil-green gloss of the upper 

 surface; a few of the dark brown axillars tipped with white. 



This remarkably distinct species continues to be known from only 

 the type specimen, which was obtained by Jlessrs. Goss and Dodge 

 during their recent expedition to Mount Kina Baki. This example 

 is fully adult and in perfect plumage. 



By reason of its white abdomen, uniform greenish upper parts, with 

 lack of any white on the rump and also of white markings on the tail, 

 Collocalia. dodgei needs special comparison with none of its congeners 

 unless it be C. linchi. From the tj"pical form of the latter species it 

 differs even more than from C. I. isonota, the one to which it seems to 

 be most closely allied, but from which, however, it is specifically dis- 

 tinct. Whether the previous records of Collocalia linchi from ^loimt 

 Kina Balu and from other parts of Borneo belong to this newly de- 

 scribed species or to some form of linchi we are unable with our pre- 

 sent material to determine, and this will be an interesting question for 

 future investigation. 



Collocalia •soulenta (Linnaus). 



Hirundo esculenta Linna'us, Syst. Nat., ed. 10, I, 175S, p. 191 ("China" 



locality WTong; Amboina is tlie proper t^-pe locality). 

 Collocalia hypoleuca Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1858, p. 170 (Aru Islands). 

 Collocalia riridinitens Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 3, X'\'II, 1866, p. 



120 (Celebes). 

 Collocalia spilura Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 3, XVII, 1866, p. 120 



(Batchian). 



Chars, sp. — Resembling Collocalia linchi. but averaging decidedly 

 smaller; most of the rectrices with large white spots on the basal por- 

 tion of their inner webs. 



Wing, 69-103; tail, 3S-44; exposed culmen, 3.5-4; tarsus, 8 mm. 



Type locality. — Amboina Island, Molucca Islands. 



Geographical distribution. — East India Islands from Celebes and 

 Sumbawa Island to the Solomon Islands and the Louisiade Archi- 

 pelago, including New Guinea; Cape York, Queensland, Australia. 



Dr. Hartert is undoubtedly correct in his identification and adoption 

 of Linnaeus' Hirundo esculenta *'' even though the latter author gives 



« Syst. Nat., ed. 10, 1, 1758, p. 191. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



the locality wrong, since the description given by Rumphius," whom 

 Linnaeus cites, refers without doubt to the present species. 



There seem to be at least two forms included under the name cscu- 

 lenta as now current, but the material at our disposal does not 'permit 

 a satisfactory segregation of these. 



Collooalia negleota Gray. 



CoUocalia ncglecta Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 3, XVII, 1866, p. 121. 



Chars, sp. — Similar to CoUocalia esculenta, from which it differs in 

 the much duller, and greenish instead of bluish or purplish upper sur- 

 face; rump, wing-ciuills, and wing-coverts with light grayish tips that 

 are, however, sometimes obsolescent, particularly in old or worn birds. 



Wing, 88-97; tail, 41-43; exposed culmen, 3.5-4; tarsus, 6.5 mm. 



Type locality. — Eastern Timor. 



Geographical distribution. — East Indian Islands of Timor, Savu, 

 Alor, Dammer, Roma, Kisser, and Wetter. 



In the specimens from Timor examined the upper parts are dull 

 grayish metallic green, the wings and tail slightly more bluish; the 

 anterior lower parts, including the breast, brownish gray, the feathers 

 tipped with grayish white, producing a mottled appearance, the middle 

 of the breast and jugulum having most white, the chin scarcely any; 

 abdomen nearly pure white; feathers of the sides with brownish gray 

 centres and whitish margins much like the breast; lining of wing dark 

 brown slightly mixed with whitish. 



Judging from Dr. Hartert's remarks,^' birds of this species from 

 Timor are not just like those on the neighboring islands, and the latter 

 maj^ as he suggests be subspecifically separable. This species is very 

 different from all members of the genus excepting CoUocalia jiatalis 

 and C. esculenta, and may easily be distinguished by its didl greenish 

 upper parts combined with white-spotted tail-feathers. It is of course 

 near CoUocalia esculenta. but apparently C[uite distinct enough to stand 

 as a species, although Dr. Hartert is of opposite opinion.^" 



CoUocalia natalis Lister. 



CoUocalia natalis Lister, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 18SS, p. 520. 



Chars, sp. — Similar to CoUocalia neglecta, but white markings of 

 tail not sharply defined ; chin and upper throat darker, almost black- 



" Herb. Amboin., VI, 1750, p. 183. 

 « Novit. Zool., IV, 1897, p. 268. 

 « Novit. Zool, XI, 1904, p. 203. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ish: blackish shaft markings of the shorter imtler tail-coverts larger; 

 feathers of the rump with somewhat broader whit« edgings. 



Wing, 122 mm. 



Type locality. — Christmas Island, Indian Ocean, south of western 

 Java. 



Geographical distribution. — Christmas Island, Indian Ocean. 



This little known form we have not seen ; but it is apparently recog- 

 nizable, though verj- much hke Collocalia neglecta, of which it is possibly 

 but a subspecies. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



213 



DESCRIPTION OF A ITEW AUSTRALIAN GLYCYMERIS. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Glyoymeris insignis n. sp. 



Tlie shell is roiinded-cuneate, the valves rather thick and strong, 

 inequilateral, the posterior outline being longer and subangular, the 

 anterior end rounded. The posterior dorsal slope is flat, and the 

 beaks project well above the dorsal outline of the valve-edges. The 



specimens are worn and without cuticle, white in the middle and ante- 

 riorly, pinkish orange near the posterior end. Sculptiue of about 17 

 low rounded radial ribs parted by narrower intervals, and about six 

 strong broad but unequal concentric waves separated by deep con- 

 strictions. 



The waves and radial ribs are weak near the anterior end, and 

 wanting on the flat posterior slope. The hinge-line is very strongly 

 ciu-ved, the two sides at an angle of about 90 degrees to each other. 

 The hinge-plate is moderately wide, with 12 anterior and 11 posterior 

 teeth, three or foiu- near the middle being very small and somewhat 

 irregular. There is a small triangular area or lozenge below the beaks, 

 sculptm'ed en chevron with about six widely diverging grooves. The 

 basal margin is coarsely crenulate inside in correspondence with the 

 external ribs, and the concentric waves of the exterior are very weakly 

 indicated inside. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Length 23, height 24, diameter 15.6 mm. 



Length 23.5, height 23.3, diameter 16.7 mm. 



Geographe Bay, West_3Australia. Coty|Des two valves, right and 

 left, received from Dr. J. C. Cox, of Sydney, New South Wales. 



The strongly developed concentric sculpture of this species is unlike 

 any described Pectunculus known to me. The flat posterior dorsal 

 slope is another peculiar featm-e. Dr. Cox writes tliat it has never 

 been found in fresh condition or with the valves attached. 




1906.] 



NATUHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



215 



ON HAWAIIAN SPECIES OF SPHYRADIUM. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY' AND C. M. COOKE, JR. 



The genus Sphyradium occui-s over practically the whole Palsearctic 

 and Nearctic realms, with one species in the Neotropical, but it has not 

 hitherto been reported from Polynesia. The two Hawaiian species to 

 be described below have aU the shell characters of the genus, but since 

 the jaw and teeth of neither is known, their reference to Sphyradium 

 is provisional. 

 Sphyradium sharpi P- and C, n. sp. Figs. 1, 2. 



The shell is narrowly umbihcate, tapering-cylindric, the summit 

 obtusel.y conic; thin; chestnut brown, paler near the apex, the surface 

 somewhat shining and distinctly but not closely striate. Whorls 

 shghtly o^•er 5, quite convex, the sutiu-e deeph' impressed. The aper- 

 tm-e is strongly obhque, roimded lunate. Peristome thin and simple, 

 the basal and outer margins well arched ; columella vertical with broadly 

 dilated edge. The insertions of the lips are remote. The umbilicus 

 is circular and deep. Length 1.8, diam. 1.36 mm. 



Hawaii : Crest of the Kilauea crater, about a half mile south of the 

 hotel. T}i)es Xo. 91,699, A. N. S. Phila., collected by Dr. Benjamin 

 Sharp. Cot3'pe in the Bernice Pauahi Bishop iluseum at Honolulu. 



This species is closely related to the following, from which it differs 

 in being somewhat larger but with a smaller number of whorls. The 



Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. 



shape also differs perceptibly, S. alexanderi being noticeably more egg- 

 shaped, with a rounded summit. It is also less strongly striate and 




216 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



more polished. S. sharpi occurred with various species of Tornatellina 

 and Nesopupa. 



Sphyradium alexanderi C. and P., n. sp. Fig. 3. 



The shell is openly perforate, dextral, broadly ovate, subtnmcate at 

 the base, the apex blunt; nearly smooth, minutely striate especially 

 below the sutures, shining, very thin, slightly diaphanous, chestnut, 

 apical whorls much lighter; whorls 5i-5f, well rounded, increasing 

 verj' slowly; sutures simple, well impressed. The apertme is oblique, 

 quadrate-lunate; columella vertical, hp thin, reflexed at the columella, 

 the margins remote; umbilicus circular, deep. Length 1.7, diam. 1.17 

 mm. 



West Maui, at the top of Mt. Kukui, elevation about 6,000 feet. 



This shell, in company with a species of Tornatellina and another of 

 Aurkulella, was foimd by C. M. Cooke, Jr., at the very apex of West 

 Maui overlooking lao valley. It was found only on low shrubs, two 

 or three feet in height, at the base of leaves. 



Collected in February, 1904. Tj^je in Bishop Museum, M. P. 8. 

 Cotype in A. N. S. Phila., No. 91,292. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



ADDITIONAL NEW SPECIES OF POLYCaETA FROM THE NORTH PACIFIC. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



In the following pages are described a number of new species of 

 Polychaeta, belonging to several families, from the collections of the 

 Alaskan Salmon Commission of 1903. Three papers noticing other 

 novelties in these collections have already been published in these 

 Proceedings with the approval of the Commissioner of Fisheries, 

 through whose kindness the material was placed in my hands for study. 

 The full report on all of the species represented will appear in the 

 Bureau of Fisheries Bulletin. 



Notophyllum imbrioatum sp. nov. Plate X, figs. 1-3. 



The two examples upon which this species is founded bear a re- 

 markable resemblance in proportions and general aspect to a Polynoe. 

 The body is depressed and the large, scale-like notopodial cirri are 

 imbricated and, except for a short space near the anterior end, com- 

 pletely conceal the back from above. 



The type and larger specimen is a trifle over .30 mm. long, and the 

 greatest width between tips of the parapodia a little anterior to the 

 middle of the body is 6.5 mm. The small individual is 12 mm. long 

 and l.S mm. wide, and the back is concealed by the elytra even more 

 completely than in the larger one. 



The prostomium is flattened and wedge-shaped, with the slightly 

 concave or straight base about two-thirds of the length, and the 

 angles rounded. A slight emargination of the anterior portion of the 

 sides is filled by an irregular low tubercle from which the frontal cirri 

 arise. A pair of large brown eyes occupy the greater part of the 

 posterior region of the prostomium laterad of the median tentacle 



(fig- 1). 



The frontal tentacles arise in lateral and ventral pairs, the latter 

 slightly in advance, from the slight emargination above mentioned. 

 They nearly equal the prostomium in length, are stout and somewhat 

 swollen above the base, and taper to fine tips. The median tentacle 

 arises between the eyes and nearly fills this space. It is one and one- 

 half times as long as the prostomium, stout and somewhat enlarged 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



above the base and tapers to a slender end. From behind its base a 

 low ridge runs to the posterior margin of the prostomium. In both 

 specimens the proboscis is retracted and the large mouth is bounded 

 by a rather prominent li]5, formed by the union of the peristomium 

 with the succeeding somite. 



The peristomium and two succeeding segments are much crowded 

 forward so that the tentacular cirri arise beneath the head. The first 

 or peristomial cirrus is a ventral cirrus and arises from the forwardly 

 directed portion of the peristomium beneath the eye. It resembles 

 the median cephalic tentacle in form and size, but is a trifle longer and 

 arises from a distinct basal article. Arising from beneath the pos- 

 terior dorsal margin of the prostomium, apparently from the peristo- 

 mium, are three somewhat flattened appendages on each side, the outer- 

 most of which is the longest and connected with the corresponding 

 tentacular cirrus by a slight web. The middle one is nearly as long, 

 and the inner one is minute (fig. 1). 



Somite II l^ears two pairs of tentacular cirri, a dorsal and a ventral 

 one, separated by a considerable interval in which arises a small 

 papilla probably representing a parapodium. The ventral cirrus 

 occupies a ])osition below the peristomial cirrus, which it resembles, 

 but which it exceeds decidedly in both length and thickness. The 

 dorsal cirrus of this somite arises at a higher level than any others in 

 the body from beneath the postero-lateral angle of the prostomium, 

 and its rather stout but long and tapering style reaches to IX or X. 

 Somite III bears a dorsal tentacular cirrus only, which, with the com- 

 plete parapodium to which it belongs, is depressed to a position more 

 ventral than usual, in marked contrast to the dorsal cirrus of II. It 

 arises from beneath and slightly behind the latter, which it resembles 

 in form and size (fig. 1). 



As stated before, the first three somites are carried well forward, 

 the peristomium and II being coalesced ventrally but distinct, though 

 very short, above. Remaining somites are well differentiated and 

 obscurely biannular, the anterior and decidedly larger annulus bearing 

 the parapodia. There are about 78 somites, the posterior end of the 

 body being in a state of regeneration and the somites of that region as 

 a consequence very small and tapered to a minute pygidium. 



The body, excluding the parapodia, is slender, about two-fifths of 

 the total width, and of nearly uniform diameter, except near the taper- 

 ing ends. It is somewhat arched dorsally; flattened and with a shallow 

 neural groove below. 



Parajjodia (fig. 2) are prominent and well developed throughout. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



In the middle region the_v exceed one-fourth of the entire width. They 

 consist of a broad base, a somewhat flattened, tongue-shaped neuro- 

 podium, slightly cleft at the tip and bearing a roimded and swollen 

 prominence on the ventral side of its base, and a minute papilliform 

 notopodiimi, which diverges dorsally from the neiiropodiiun. Each 

 division is supported by a single aciculus, the notopodial being very 

 slender and curved, the neiu-opodial stouter and straight. 



Along the posterior face of the base of the neuropodium above the 

 papilla mentioned arises a flange-like ceratophore bearing a large, 

 foliaceous palette-shaped ventral cirrus which curves upward behind 

 the neuropodium and completely conceals both it and its setae from 

 behind. The notopodial ceratophore is very large, causing the 

 notopodium itself to appear as a mere appendage. At its dorsal side 

 the free distal border is prominently produced, thus prolonging the 

 surface of attachment of the notopodial cirrus. The cirrus itself is 

 very prominent, of a somewhat irregular reniform outline and attached 

 b\' the marginal sinus. All of the notopodial cirri are turned nearly 

 horizontall_v and overlap on the back in an imbricate fashion, closely 

 similar to the elj'tra of the Pohjnoida. Anteriorly the dorsal cirri 

 diminish in size so that the}- fail to cover the back completel}^ and 

 their ceratophores become more slender and elevated. The ventral 

 cirri also l^ecome smaller, but remain prominent as far forn-ard as III 

 without essential chazige of form or position, A minute neuropodial 

 tubercle exists on II, but it is uncertain if setae are present thereon. 



The eyes are piu-plish brown and the general color of the body a 

 distmct dull greenish olive. Little pigment remains in any part of the 

 bod}', but the notopodial cirri are more or less marked with dusky 

 streaks and spots. A few small ova float free in the body cavity. 



The notopodium usually bears but a single slender, curved and 

 simple seta, and even this appears to be absent from several of the 

 anterior parapodia, Neiu-opodial setse are nimierous, upwards of 20 

 to 30 occurring in the subacicular and 12 to IS in the supraacicular 

 groups. They are colorless and transparent, compound, with the 

 stem gently curved and slightly enlarged at the end, where each side 

 of the socket is provided with 6 to S ^-ery long, slender teeth and several 

 shorter ones. The blade is slightly curved and tapers to an acute tip, 

 and is striated and provided with minute marginal denticulations 

 (fig. 3). 



The only specimens are the two from Station 4,269, Afoqnak Bay, 

 14 to 19 fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Enlalia quadriooulata sp. nov. Plate X, figs. 4-6. 



This description is based upon a single much contracted entire 

 specimen (type) and a fragment of the anterior end of another in every- 

 way similar. 



The type is 27 mm. long, the protruded proboscis 2 mm. additional, 

 the width without parapodia 2 mm., with parapodia 3 mm. , the diameter 

 of the distal end of the proboscis 2.5 mm., antl the mmibcr of segments 

 106. 



The evidently much contracted prostomium (fig. 4) is about two- 

 thirds as long as wide, scarcely emarginated in the metlian line pos- 

 teriorly, rather tumid in the posterior lateral part and then slightly 

 concave to a small truncate median anterior lobe. The usual pair of 

 eyes are transversely elliptical, situated on the dorsal surface of the 

 prostomium about three times their diameter apart, nearly twice their 

 diameter from the lateral margins of the head and not more than 

 their diameter from the posterior margin. They have distinct lenses. 

 In nearly the same transverse line or very slightly in advance and half 

 way between the dorsal eyes and the margin, or just within the nuchal 

 organs, is a second pair of eye-like spots of black pigment, but lenseless 

 and smaller and more irregular than the dorsal eyes. 



The four frontal tentacles are subequal, about as long as the head, 

 and rather thick, with acute tips. The ventral pair project somewhat 

 downwards, the dorsal directly outwards. From the middle of the 

 small lobe lying between the frontal tentacles a shallow longitudinal 

 groove passes to the median tentacle, which arises from a point just 

 anterior to the eyes. It equals the frontal tentacles in length, but is 

 slightly more slender in its distal part. The fom- tentacular cirri arise 

 in the positions usual in the genus from somites I, II and III, and are 

 short and subequal, being about twice the length of the prostomium. 



The segments are all well differentiated and dorsally are strongly 

 arched; anteriorly they are strictly simple smooth rings, but in the 

 posterior third become biannulate. Ventrally the body is marked by 

 a neural groove and lateral ridges bearing glandular areas ventral to 

 the parapodia. On this surface the biannulation extends nearly to the 

 anterior entl. The anterior segments are contracted and extremely 

 short, farther back they become relatively longer, and towanl the 

 posterior end the body is distinctly flattened. The pygidium, which 

 is provided with a thickened welt-like rim surrounding the anus, 

 bears on the ventral side a pair of prominent aciuninate cirri resembling 

 the ventral cirri in size. 



Parapodia are located at the level of the ventral surface. That on- 




1906.] NATXTRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



II, related to the second tentacular cirrus, is rudimentary and achsE- 

 tous; that on III is larger, perfectly formed and bears setse. The others 

 have the form shown in fig. 5 and bear foliaceous dorsal cu-ri. When 

 fully developed they are sharply marked oE from the ventral glandular 

 swellings by distinct lateral grooves. The notopodium is of course 

 wanting, and the neuropodium is a small somewhat flattened process 

 divided distally into a very small postsetal and a decidedly longer 

 presetal lobe, from between which the single vertical series of setse 

 projects. Each lobe is notched on the edge at the point where the 

 single straight slender aciculura reaches the siu-face. The neuropodial 

 cirrus is prominent from III back and is a short, rather thick process 

 attached to the posterior side of the base of the neuropodiimi. In 

 the middle region it is somewhat foliaceous and reaches to the tip of 

 the neuropodiimi ; in form it is triangular with the broad, somewhat 

 convex base ventral and the apex dorsal, while the attachment is by 

 one of the short sides. Posteriorly they become more slender and 

 project distinctl}' bej'ond the end of the neuropodium. 



The dorsal cirri (fig. 5) are prominent and foliaceous throughout. 

 The}' arise from stout bases situated a short distance dorsal to the 

 neuropodia, which they in most cases exceed in size. All of the cirri 

 have their fibrous and glandular structures arranged pinnately along 

 an axial core. Anteriorlj- the cirri are rather broadly lanceolate with 

 acuminate, somewhat recurved tips; posteriorly they become more 

 slender and elongated; and finally are very narrowly lanceolate and 

 of a length exceeding the diameter of the body. At the same time 

 their foliaceous character is gradually lost. 



About thirty sette, equally divided between the supraacicular and 

 subacicular groups, form the vertical fan-like fascicle. They are of 

 the usual compound form (fig. 6) with the transparent, colorless stems 

 rather stouter than those of E. longicornuta, the thickened and nearly 

 truncate end furnished on each side with seven or eight slender teeth, 

 one of which is much larger than the others. The blades are short, 

 broad at the base, and rather conspicuously striated and fringed. 



The type specimen, a female filled vAXh large eggs, retains a dull olive 

 color throughout the body, becoming brown on the doi-sal cirri. Be- 

 sides the black pigment in the eyes, there is a cliiTiise spot near the tip 

 of each dorsal cirrus, and a very minute spot beneath each ganglion 

 of the ventral chain. The cotj'pe shows some indications of a faint 

 transverse band across the dorsum of each segment. 



The type anil cotype are from Quarantine Rock, Port Townsend, 

 Washington, June 27, 1903. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apiil, 



Eulalia longioornuta sp. nov. Plate X, figs. 7, 8. 



A complete example, much contracted, measures 15 mm. in length, 

 with a body width of 1.5 mni. at the widest part, and a total of 73 

 segments. 



The broad prostomium is very slightly cordate, about as wide as 

 long, and has no distinct concavity or constriction behind the frontal 

 tentacles. The latter arise from the extreme anterior end of the 

 prostomium, are slightly longer than the head and very slender. The 

 median tentacle arises immediately in front of a line connecting the 

 anterior border of the ej'es or very close to the centre of the 

 prostomium. It is 1§ times as long as the head, very slender, and 

 tapers regularly from the base to the tip. 



The single pair of eyes are circular, black, situated nearly their 

 diameter from the posterior margin of the prostomium and twice 

 their diameter from each other. Both specimens have the proboscis 

 retracted, in which contlition the mouth is bounded below by a some- 

 what swollen, longitudinally furrowed lip. The peristomial somite 

 appears on the dorsum as a slightly elevated lenticular area overlapping 

 the prostomium. The first ventral tentacular cirrus arises directly 

 beneath the eye, the second one from somite II; both are slender and 

 subulate and reach back to somite VII or to a length 2^ times the 

 head. The two dorsal tentacular cirri arise from II and III respect- 

 ively, and are about twice the length of the ventral cirrus, verj- slender 

 and regularly tapered to a delicate tip. 



Dorsally the body is strongly arched above, below flattened and 

 slightly grooved. It is widest at the middle and tapers regularly and 

 nearly equally both ways. The segments are well marked throughout 

 and show scarcely a trace of biannulation, even posteriorly. The 

 anal cii-ri are missing from both tji^e and cotjT^e. 



Although the specimens are smaller, the parapodia (fig. 7) are even 

 more prominent than in E. quadrioculata, owing to the ]irojecting 

 character of the dorsal angle of the presetal lobe, but otherwise they 

 are similar. The dorsal cirri are, however, very different from those 

 of that species, being folded against the sides of the body instead of 

 held erect. They are strongly foliaceous throughout, the anterior 

 and middle ones having a broadly pyriform outline, and those of the 

 latter region being especially broad ; the posterior ones are more slender 

 and rather cuneate-ovate. ^Moreover, the central area is always broad 

 and thick and the gland ducts and other markings radiate from it in 

 all directions and not in a pinnate manner. The ventral cirrus is also 

 prominent and projects beyond the dorsal lobe of the parapodium. 




1906.] NATURAli SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



There are about 10 supraacicular and 12 subaciciilar sette in all, but 

 fewer on the extreme anterior and posterior parapodia and, except 

 for the usual variations in relative length of the blade, all have the 

 form exhibited in fig. 8. The slender stem ends in an acutely oblique 

 enlargement with 7 to 9 nearly eciual, closely appressed teeth on each 

 side. The blades are slender, flexible and very acute, with very fine 

 marginal fringe. 



In both specimens the color has faded to a nearly uniform olive with 

 some brown striations on the dorsal cirri. The type is a female filled 

 with eggs. These specimens were fomid among serpulid tubes taken 

 at the Quarantine Station dock near Port Townsend, Washington, on 

 June 27, 1903. 



Pionosyllis magnifioa sp. nov. Plate X, figs. 9-11. 



This large syllid is described from two specimens, one of which (the 

 type) measures 48 mm. long and nearly 2 mm. wide, exclusive of cirri 

 and setje, in the middle of the body. The form is much depressed, 

 especially in the widened middle region, from which it tapers to the 

 very small head and pygidium. 



As just indicated the prostomium is small, its width little exceeding 

 three-fifths of the width of the second segment and one-fifth of the 

 maximum breadth of the body. It is depressed, somewhat quad- 

 rangular in form, widest anteriorly where the width is about double 

 the length. The somewhat flattened palpi project forward and some- 

 what downward and are very slightly connate at the base (fig. 9). ■ 



All three of the cephalic cirri are decidedly slender and arise in a 

 transverse row from almost the extreme anterior margin of the prosto- 

 mium. In one specimen they are subequal and about three times the 

 length of the prostomium. In the other the median one is three and 

 one-half times, the lateral about twice the prostomial length. The 

 ends may be partly sloughed awaJ^ 



The eyes, though small, are very conspicuous and nearly black, the 

 anterior slightly the larger. Together they form a quadrate figure 

 conforming to the outline of the head and about two-thirds as large. 



Dorsally the peristomium is very short, but ventralh^ it projects as 

 a prominent lip siu'rountling the large mouth. A fragment of the 

 anterior end of an example of this species from Station 4,235 has the 

 proboscis protruded as a short bell-shaped structure, bearing ten 

 prominent papillae at the end and just behind them a conical, dorsal 

 median tooth which appears to be quite soft. On the roof of the 

 pharynx just behind the everted portion there appears to be, however, 

 a hardened, horny elliptical area. This specimen also has the eyes 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



larger than the others and nearly connate, Ijut no swimming setae 

 exist on any of the small niunber of anterior segments present. 



Of the tentacular cirri (fig. 9) the dorsal peristomial is about four 

 times as long as the prostomium, that of somite II is slightly longer 

 and of III as much shorter; the ventral peristomial cirrus is about two 

 and one-half times the prostomial length. All of the tentacular cirri 

 resemble the cephalic cirri in being slender, delicate, and not monili- 

 form, or with indistinct irregular furrows only. 



After the second, the segments increase very gradually in length 

 and more rapidly in width and soon assume the depressed form char- 

 acterizing the middle region where they are five or six times as wide as 

 long. The tjqDe specimen has about 150 somites, the cotype only 

 110. Posteriorly the Ijody becomes slender and ends in a minute 

 annular pygidium, bearing on its ventral side a pair of very slender 

 caudal cirri equalling the last twelve segments and exceeding any of 

 the cephalic appendages. 



The parapodia are of the form usual in Syllidoe and project promi- 

 nently from the sides at a low level. Although there is no distinct 

 notopodium, a slender notopodial aciculus is always present just be- 

 neath the notopodial cirrophore (fig. 10). The well-developed neu- 

 ropodium terminates in a broadly rounded, more dorsal, postsetal 

 process and a longer, rather prominent, and more ventral presetal 

 process. The three or four aciculi terminate at the upper outer angle 

 of the former. A'entral cirri are always short, stout and bluntly 

 roiuided, with oblique bases passing into the ventral surface of the 

 body, and in size about equal the neuropodia. Notopodial cirri arise 

 from very large and prominent cirrophores. Except for their slightly 

 larger size anteriorly, where they are about three times the length of 

 the prostomium, the notopodial styles are similar throughout. They 

 are probably somewhat contracted and in life would be longer and more 

 slender. In the middle of the body they are scarcely one-half of the 

 total width. As shown in the figure they are rather stout and coarse, 

 and , though more or less deeply marked with irregular transverse fur- 

 rows, are never regularly articulated or moniliform. The only varia- 

 tion in the jjarapodia is that they become more prominent in all their 

 parts posteriorly. 



Notopodial aciculi are slender, curved and acutely pointed; the 

 neuropodia! are stouter, nearly straight and knobbed at the end. All 

 setse (fig. 11) are compoimd and all are subacicular in position. In 

 middle parapodia they are numerous, arranged in about ten horizontal 

 rows of three to five each, or about fortj- in all. They are colorless, 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



with long, slender, curved shafts, the ends of which are rather abruptly 

 enlarged and not very oblique, and are provided with only a few small 

 teeth at the apex. The appendage^ or blades are strongly hooked and 

 bifid at the end and distinctly fringed. The shortest posterior ones 

 have a length of about one and one-third times the diameter of the end 

 of the shaft, the longest about foiu- and one-half times that diameter. 



Both specimens are entLrelj- colorless and the large one is filled with 

 masses of sperm. 



The t^^-pe comes from Admiralty Inlet, near Port Townsend, Wash- 

 ington, Station 4,219, 16 to 26 fathoms, on a bottom of green mud with 

 sand and broken shells. A fragment was taken at Yes Baj-, Behm 

 Canal, 130 to 193 fathoms, bottom of gray mud. 



Stauronereis annulatus sp. nov. Plate X, figs. 12, 13, and Plate XI, figs. 18-22. 



The larger example (much contracted) is 13 mm. long and about 1 

 mm. wide exclusive of the setse, and has 72 segments. The other is 9 

 mm. long with 62 segments. 



The prostomium (fig. 12) consists of a broad shovel-like anterior 

 process and two short segments, each bearing a pair of tentacles and a 

 pair of eyes. Although these two divisions or rings are about equal, 

 both the eyes and tentacles of the anterior one are much the larger. 

 The anterior tentacles (palpi) arise from the ventro-lateral region of 

 the first annulus. Each consists of a large and very stout basal piece 

 strongl}' curved backwards by the sides of the head and bearing on its 

 end a very small ellipsoidal terminal article. Just above the base of 

 each, on the dorso-lateral region of the head, is a large very dark brown 

 eye. Immediately behind and slightly above the large eyes the second 

 pail- of tentacles are borne on the second annulus. They are about as 

 long but not so stout as the anterior ones, are cylindrical in form and 

 consist of six or seven nearly spherical articles. The second j^air of 

 eyes are mmute dark brown spots about one-fifth the diameter of the 

 anterior pair, and are situated on the dorsum of the second annulus 

 about half as far apart as the anterior pair. The mouth is small and 

 bounded behind by the second somite, and from it project the ends of the 

 jaws (fig. 18). Owing to the retracted state of the proboscis the jaw 

 apparatus is not all visible. A specimen cleared in glycerine shows 

 on the dorsal side a lenticular area having a very dark brown border 

 and a i:)aler interior enclosing a small central space. In ventral view 

 are seen the pair of ilark brown mandibles (fig. IS) with slemler bowed 

 bases and ciu-ved, divergent, tapering end-plates bearing about seven 

 strong teeth along the medial margin. 

 15 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The prostomium ami somite II are apoclous, short simple rings. 

 All others bear parapodia, but are not otherwise more complicated in 

 structure. Up to about the fifteenth they increase in size, but remain 

 uniannular throughout. The body is strongly arched above and 

 nearly flat below, and termmates in a simple ring-like pygidium bear- 

 ing a pair of small ventral anal cirri as long as the diameter of the 

 pygidium. 



Parapodia'are small, slender and strictly lateral in position. Except 

 that they correspond in size with the segment bearing them and are 

 consequently largest at the middle of the body, they are quite similar 

 throughout. The neuropodium (fig. 13) is slender, nearly cylindrical 

 and slightly enlarged distally, where it terminates in a presetal lobe 

 divided into a larger ventral and a minute acicular process, and a 

 postsetal lobe which begins just below the aciculum and runs to a 

 rather prominent dorsal angle. Its dorsal siu-face bears a group of 

 long cOia. The neuropodial cirrus is a simple finger-like papilla arising 

 in or near the distal thiixl of the ventro-posterior sinface of the 

 neuropodium and reaching nearly to the end of the latter. 



The dorsal cirrus arises immediateh' above the base of the neuro- 

 podium and consists of a slender, elongated cirrophore nearly as long 

 as the latter and slightly diverging from it. Usually. but not always 

 it is slightly constricted about the middle and the end is a little thick- 

 ened. Probably it represents the notopodium, as what appears to be 

 a slender aciculus penetrates about half of its length. A tuft of long 

 cilia resembling that on the dorsal sm'face of the neuropodium is 

 usuall}' present on its ventral and sometimes on its dorsal surface also. 

 On the end of this basal piece is borne a terminal style of about half 

 its length and of a slender, conical form. The first parapodium 

 altogether lacks a dorsal cirrus. 



Setae are numerous and of four forms, all very delicate, transparent 

 and colorless. They are arranged in well dilTerentiated supra- and 

 subacicular fascicles, each comprising two kinds, and'aU of which occur 

 throughout the body, except perhaps in a few anterior segments, where 

 the long compound setae have not been found. 



All of the supraacicular setae are simple ; those most numerous being 

 very delicate but stiff capillary bristles, tapered to very acute tips, 

 slight!}' curved and rather strongly serrated in an antrorse manner 

 along one side (fig. 20). Their exposed parts are fully three times as 

 long as the entire neuropodium. The other form has generally stouter 

 stems, straight and tapering until near the end (fig. 19), where they 

 present a gentle ventral curvature and at the same time become 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



broadened and end in two divergent, slightly cm-ved points, the ventral 

 of which is the longer; while below the dorsal is a serrated sheath, the 

 rather coarse teeth of which are directed out^^ard. :>eldom more than 

 three or four of the latter form occur in a parapodium along with ten or 

 fifteen of the former. 



Subacicular setse are all compound. The most numerous kind 

 occur to the number of about fifteen. They have moderately stout, 

 rather strongly curved stems, the end being -very unequally and 

 obliquely bifurcated to form a socket, the dorsal border of which is 

 provided with a few teeth (fig. 20), while the l:)lades are comparatively 

 short, but increase in length from the ventral to the dorsal margin of 

 the bundle, and have one border fringed and the end terminated by a 

 pair of distinct but not widely separated and nearly parallel teeth. 

 The second kind of compound setce (fig. 22) seldom exceeds three in 

 number. They have the same construction as the more numerous 

 form but are much more/lender and delicate in all their parts, and the 

 blade often equals the entire length of the neiu-opodium or about three 

 times the length of the longest blades of the other type. On the most 

 anterior segments the two forms appear to grade into each other. 

 The setaj of this species differ decidedly from those of tj'pical members 

 of the genus and are more nearly like those of Prionognathus ciliatus 

 Keferstein. 



These worms are quite colorless and their form ami histological 

 structure indicates that they may be pelagic in haliit. 



The type and a somewhat smaller cotype were olitained at Quaran- 

 tine Rock. Port Townsend, Washington, June 27, 1903. 



Notomastus giganteus. Plate X, figs. 24, 25. 



The onlv complete specimen measures 140 mm. in length and 7 mm. 

 in maximum diameter in the thoracic region, but a second incomplete 

 example is much larger. Even taking into account the contracted 

 state of the specimens, this species is much stouter than usual for the- 

 genus. The body is nearly terete or slightly depressed and for the 

 fii-st fifteen or twenty millimeters increases in diameter, and then falls 

 off to the posterior end which is two millimeters in diameter within 

 ten segments of the anus. 



The prostomium is a small rounded lobe bearing a minute conical 

 palpode and is completely retracted within the peristomium, which, 

 except in being slightly longer, resembles the immediately following 

 segments. The protruded and collapsed proboscis forms a discoid, 

 wrinkled structure fully__8 mm. in diameter. All of the thoracic seg- 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ments are strongly biannulate, the anterior annulus being slightly 

 shorter than the posterior. Each annulus is marked out in irregular 

 areas, of which there is generally but one series to each annulus, though 

 on somites IV to ^'II inclusive they become arranged irregularly in 

 two rows. Behind ^'II the thoracic segments become smooth and more 

 glandular and decrease in length, though even the last is fully one-half 

 longer than the first abtlominal. 



Beginning with II, each thoracic segment bears small notopodial and 

 neuropodial tufts of very delicate, narrowly winged capillary setse in 

 the usual positions, l3ut neither the lateral sense organs nor the genital 

 pores can be detected in surface views of these specimens. 



The abdominal segments, of which there are 190, are very short, 

 with shallow, ill-defined furrows, and are either simple rings or ante- 

 riorly obscurely biannulate. The surface is smooth, and the integu- 

 ment provided with a thick glandular coat on the anterior and a much 

 thinner coat on the posterior segments. 



The notopodial tori are very long, but not at all elevated above the 

 surface in these specimens, and bear a great number of uncini. The 

 notopodial torus is much more elevated and prominent, especially on 

 posterior segments, but is much shorter and contains a much smaller 

 number of uncini. The gills are low, rather long, inconspicuous folds. 

 The pygidium forms a narrow circumanal welt bearing two longer 

 prominently protruding ventral cirri and four much smaller ones in 

 two pairs more dorsally placed. 



The uncini (figs. 24, 2.5) are numerous and very delicate crochets 

 of a peculiar form. The}' are f-shaped with the densely fibrillated core 

 exhibiting a slight spiral turn, and the tip provided with a single bent 

 terminal process, somewhat flattened and at the base swollen and over- 

 arched by a depressed hood, the margin of which is denticulated with 

 eight or ten teeth. 



The type comes from Station 4,264, off Freshwater Bav, in Chatham 

 Strait, at a dejith of 2S2-293 fathoms, and on a bottom of green mud ; 

 the larger but incomplete cotype was taken at Station 4,197, in the 

 Gulf of Georgia, at a depth of 31 to 90 fathoms, on a bottom of sticky 

 green nuul and fine sand. 



Travisia pupa ^p- nov. Plate XI, fig. 23. 



This is a thick, stout, grub-shaped worm tapering nearly equally 

 both ways but ha\-ing the anterior end rather blunter and thicker. 

 The considerable number of examples in the collection measure from 

 24 mm. to 82 mm. in length, with corresponding diameters at the middle 

 of from 8 mm. to 32 mm. Exclusive of the pvgidium there are thirtv 




1906.1 XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



one or thirty-two somites, but the number is not correlated with the 

 size of the worm, the largest two having thirty-one and the smallest 

 thirty-two. 



The prostomium is a minute conical organ, thin-skinned, weak- 

 walled and hollow, and apparently capable of distention by internal 

 fluid. It is followed by a short, uniannular segment continuing the 

 general conical form of the anterior end. Dorsalh- this segment is 

 crenidated on its posterior margin; below it is flattened and slightly 

 grooved in the middle of the posterior part; and on each side it is pro- 

 vided ^-ith a dorso-lateral groove which terminates anteriorly in a deep 

 sensor}^ pit at the posterior margin of the prostomium. The next 

 segment is biannular, with the anterior ring distinctly larger. Below 

 it forms the upper lip and is thrown into a number of deep longitudinal 

 folds and furrows which pass into the mouth. On each side, above a 

 rather prominent swelling, is a quadrangular area opposite the groove 

 on the first segment and itself boimded by a longitudinal groove above 

 and another below, both of which cut the segment for its entire length. 

 This area bears the small tufts of notopodial and neuropodial sets and 

 between them an elliptical clear spot or pit. Dorsally each ring is 

 marked by longitudinal grooves which effect a peculiar lobed and 

 crenulate'd arrangement of the posterior margin. The third somite is 

 triannulate. but the anterior two rings are somewhat united and on the 

 ventral surface the first enters the sides of the mouth and the second 

 forms the longitudinally grooved lower lip. At the sides this segment 

 is constructed like the second, except that the posterior third of the 

 quadrate area is depressed and smooth and that a cirrus is borne on 

 each side immediately above and behind the notopodial setae. Above 

 the same longitudinal sulcation and posterior lobing appear. The 

 next twelve segments are formed of three equal rings completely 

 separated by continuous furrows, except for the short interruptions at 

 the setigerous areas on each side. Dorsal longitudinal sulcations are 

 wanting and a second sensory pit, which first appears on the middle 

 of the second ring below the setigerous area of somite IV, becomes 

 verj' conspicuous on the posterior segments of this region, and on every 

 specimen finally ceases on X\'. Somites X\T, X^TI and XVIII each 

 consist of a large posterior and a small anterior ring, the fiu"row separ- 

 ating which becomes successive!}' more and more restricted to the 

 dorsal and ventral regions. Traces of a short anterior ring, differen- 

 tiated only dorsally and ventrally, still continue on XIX and XX, but 

 all remaining somites are strictly uniannulate with prominent over- 

 lapping posterior margins, which finally become telescopic. Somite 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



XIV, which is exactly at the middle of the body, is the longest ; but 

 the reduction in both lengtli and diameter of the segments is slight until 

 near the ends, where it becomes more rapid. The pygidium is a short 

 sc[uarcly truncated tube marked externally by longitudinal grooves 

 which corresponil with the clefts between the nine to twelve uneven 

 lobes into which its margin is divided. 



The sin-face of the bodj' is vesiculated or finely pustular in the follow- 

 ing manner: Generally over the posterior half of the body, in all of 

 the intersequental furrows and on all except the most anterior setig- 

 erous areas, the jjustules are very small and, though numerous, not 

 crowded. In macerated specimens they are collapsed and appear 

 as punctations. From the middle of the bodj- they gradually increase 

 in size forward. Each annidus of anterior somites is provided on its 

 highest part with an irregular transverse series of very large vesiclei; 

 which usuall}' lie nearer to the posterior margin and overlap the suc- 

 ceeding ring, when the worm is contracted, as a rough and irregular 

 fold interrupted in the median dorsal region. These folds and their 

 vesicles are usually best marked on the middle ring of each somite, on 

 which they increase in prominence from the median break laterally 

 to the setigerous areas, below and e^-en more above which they form 

 rough lobes overlapping the third ring. The ventral lobe bears the 

 ventral sensory pit referred to abo\'e. Anteriorly the transverse series 

 of enlarged vesicles tends to form several rows and all of the vesicles to 

 increase in size. The first three segments bounding and anterior to the 

 mouth are covered nearly uniformly with vesicles of moderate size; 

 and similar ones cover the anterior two-thirds of the setigerous areas 

 ■of the first ten or twelve segments. The prostomium is perfectly 

 smooth and lacks surface vesicles altogether. Posteriorly the ridges 

 of enlarged vesicles and the lateral lappets become gradually flattened 

 out and the entire surface much smoother. The lappets above and 

 below the setigerous areas remain, howe\^er, and may become even 

 more prominent on the last few segments, where, however, they are not 

 vesicular. 



Neuropodial cirri appear on III and continue on every segment to 

 near the posterior end. ceasing on from XXIV to XX\TI in different 

 specimens. They arise at the dorsal margin of the setigerous area, 

 chiefl}- from the third annulus but in part from the second also. At the 

 base their diameter nearly equals the length of the third annulus, but 

 thej- quickly become slender. The surface is strongly wrinkled trans- 

 versely, much like the contracted tentacle of a jelly-fish, and doubtless 

 they are in life capable of great extension; but in the preserved sijeci- 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



mens, even where longest (in the middle of the body), they barely 

 equal one-half or one-third of the body diameter. Toward the ends 

 they are reduced to one-third or even one-fourth of this length. 



Lateral sense organs appear as a pair between the prostomium and 

 peristomium and occiu- between the setae tufts of every succeeding 

 segment, except that they are occasionally absent from XXXI or 

 XXXII. In shape they are elleptical with the long axis vertical. 

 ^'entral sensory pits appear on IV and continue without exception to 

 X\' in the position indicated above. At fii'st very small, they increase 

 rapidly until they exceed the lateral organs, unlike which they are 

 always circidar. 



Small notopodial and neuropodial tufts of setis occur on all somites 

 from II caudad at the junction of the second and third rings. Both 

 tufts are retractile into pits and the notopodial setae are somewhat 

 longer than the nem-opodial. All sette are very slender, flexible and 

 thread-like, of various lengths in each tuft, and have each margin 

 provided with a fringe of appressed hairs. 



ilanj- of the specimens are enclosed in a very tough mucous mem- 

 brane more or less coated with sUt, and often iialiabited by small 

 nematodes. 



This species bears much resemblance to Travisia olcns Ehlers, which 

 has only thnty segments and rather distinct parapodial papUlse. 



It is apparently an abundant worm, conspicuous from its large size, 

 and widespread on muddy bottoms. Specimens were collected from 

 the following stations: 4,192, Gulf of Georgia, IS to 23 fathoms, green 

 mud and fine sand; 4,194, Gulf of Georgia {type locality). 111 to 170 

 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,197, Gulf of Georgia, 31 to 90 fathoms, 

 sticky green mud and fine sand ; 4,230, Behm Canal, 108 to 240 fathoms, 

 rocky; 4,235, Behm Canal, 130 to 193 fathoms, gray mud; 4,237, Behm 

 Canal, 192 fathoms, green mud; 4,246, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales 

 Island, 101 to 123 fathoms, gray and green mud, coarse sand and 

 shells. 



Brada pilosa sp. nov. Plate X, figs. 14-17. 



This well-marked species is represented by about a dozen specimens 

 varying in length from 15 to 30 mm., the largest having a maximum 

 diameter of 5 mm. With the prostomium and tentacles retracted, 

 which is the condition of all of the specimens, the form of the body is 

 slender clavate, bluntly rounded at the anterior end and gradually 

 thickening to about XI or XII, from which point it tapers into the 

 rather slender, gracefully formed caudal region. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The exact form of the prostomium and mouth is not apparent, inas- 

 much as this region is retracted, leaving a conspicuous trifid opening 

 which has been sometimes indicated in descriptions of other species as 

 the true mouth. In this condition the peristomium is trilobate. All of 

 the segments are simple rings, separated from one another by clearly 

 defined but not conspicuous intersegmental furrows which become 

 more distinct posteriorly. The segments pass regularly into one 

 another without any conspicuous breaks in contoirr, and increase in 

 length, as the_vdo in diameter, to about XII, then undergo little change 

 to the middle of the bodj', behind which they become again gradually 

 shorter. Toward the posterior end they diminish to a minute pygi- 

 dium which contains a small, vertical, slit-like anus, but appears to 

 lack cirri or other appendages. 



The number of segments varies from 31 to 33, the latter number 

 being present in the type. All, including the peristomium, bear both 

 notopodial and neuropodial setse in tufts upon minute tubercles. 



The chief characteristic of the species is the richness of its papillation. 

 The entire dorsal surface is thickljr covered with filiform jiapillfe espe- 

 cially numerous toward the ends, where they are so densely arranged 

 that they actually touch and crowd one another. On the middle 

 segments they are more widely separated, but are still so numerous 

 that where Brada villosa bears 3 or 4 in the length of a somite, this 

 species bears 8 to 12. They are not disposed in regular rows, but are 

 arranged more or less irregularly at nearly equal intervals in all direc- 

 tions. The intersegmental furrows lack papillje and appear as smooth 

 lines, like narrow avenues through a grass field. Just anterior to each 

 parapodium the papillce become few or nearly disappear, leaving a 

 wider open space at this point. Those papillse remaining in this 

 region are collected about the setigerous tubercles, but instead of be- 

 coming enlarged and forming rosettes the}' are actually smaller than 

 the dorsal ones. 



All of the papillffi (fig. 14) are slender, elongated and filiform with 

 a small terminal knolj. Many of them collect a thick girdle of sedi- 

 ment in a zone near the base, which gives the appearance of a bulbous 

 enlargement. They differ considerably in length and toward the 

 anterior end of the body exceed the length of the segment bearing 

 them, so that this region has the appearance of being thicklj' coated 

 with fine hairs. At the level of the ventral margin of the neuropodial 

 tubercles the dorsal papillation ceases abruptl}^, and is replaced by 

 the much smaller papillae (fig. 15) which cover this surface. Although 

 their number is nearly as great, these papillse are so much smaller than 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



those found on the dorsal smiace that to the naked eye they appear 

 merely as a fine granulation. 



Every somite, including the peristomium, bears both notopodial 

 and neuropodial sets in small lateral tufts. The setse of both fascicles 

 have the same character, all being slender and transversely jointefl, 

 except at the acutely pointed tip. The former (fig. 16) are very slender 

 anil delicate and tlxe internodes increase in length toward the tip. The 

 latter (fig. 17) are more deeply colored, much stouter, distinctly curveil 

 and the much shorter joints decrease in length toward the tip. In 

 both tufts the number of seta; is small, about eight notopodials and 

 eight or ten neuropodials being the rule. On the peristomium the 

 notopodials are very long, equalling four or five segments, and they 

 project forward far beyond the mouth. On succeeding segments they 

 project outward and upward and decrease in length until they are about 

 equal to the segment bearing them. The neuropodials are rudiment- 

 ary on I, but increase in both length and thickness on succeeding 

 anterior segments, those at the posterior end becoming again more 

 slender but without diminution in length. 



As stated above the prostomium is in all cases retracted. A dissec- 

 tion shows that the tentacles are fine and very numerous, numbering 

 upwards of thirty on each side. They are borne on a pair of bosses 

 which are about twice as wide dorsally as ventrally, where they curve 

 around the mouth and nearly meet. The palpi are very short and 

 broad and marked by a longitudinal groove and transverse wTinkles 

 on the ventral side, the dorsal surface being smooth. The skin is 

 gray, but the papillae impart to the dorsal surface a buffj- j-ellow color. 



Brada pilosa very closely resembles Trophonia hirsuta Theel, but is 

 distinguished by the reduction in size and niunber of the papillae form- 

 ing the setal rosettes and by the unjointed tip and other peculiarities 

 of the setae. 



The species is not uncommon northward. Examples occur from 

 the following stations: Station 4,251 (type locality), Stephens Passage, 

 19S fathoms, rocky bottom; 4,235, Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130 to 193 

 fathoms, gray mud; 4,252, Stephens Passage, 19S to 201 fathoms, gray 

 mud; 4,258, Lynn Canal, 300 to 313 fathoms, mud. 



Maldane slmilis sp. nov. Plate XI, figs. 26-30. 



The type and largest example is 56 mm. long and 2.5 mm. wide, 

 the latter being nearly constant throughout the entire length. 



This species belongs to the M. biceps group in having the ceiDhalic 

 and caudal plates of nearly the same form and size. The cephalic plate 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



is very broadly elliptical in outline, the margin little limbate, the pos- 

 terior two-fifths separated by a deep notch on each side from the 

 anterior three-fifths, the former erect and with its margin finely den- 

 ticulated with from twenty to twenty-five teeth. One-fourth of the 

 remaining margin anterior to the notch forms on each side a rather 

 thick, narrow, spreading rim, the margin of which is quite entire or 

 merely slightly crenulated, not conspicuously toothed as in M. biceps. 

 Anteriorly the cephalic rim is separated from the postero-lateral mar- 

 gins of the palpode by a pair of distinct radial furrows. The palpode 

 is very large and contributes easily three-tenths of the entire margin. 

 It is very broad and flat, with a smoothly curved anterior border and 

 rather more than one-third of the middle of its posterior border pro- 

 duced backward on to the head plate as a slightly elevated median 

 welt scarcely rising to the height of a ridge. On each side of this, 

 forming its lateral boundaries and the posterior boundary of the 

 lateral portions of the palpode are the deep sensory slits, U-shaped or 

 hooked, with the lateral limb the shorter. No furrows or other mark- 

 ings occur on the surface of the cephalic plate. 



The mouth is large and the lips prominent and pouting. A short 

 distance behind it is a transverse groove encircling the ventral half of 

 the peristomium and joining a conspicuous longitudinal groove which 

 begins at the lateral notch in the cephalic margin and passes along 

 the side of the peristomium, to end posteriorly in the circular furrow 

 which separates a complete narrow ring from the hinder part of the 

 segment. Inasmuch as the posterior part of the peristomium is re- 

 tracted within the anterior margin of II, this ring is completely con- 

 cealed ventrally by the prominent half-collar developed in that posi- 

 tion on the latter segment. 



The next segment (II) is very short, its length not more than one- 

 half of its diameter; the posterior third is completely separated as 

 a distinct ring; and the anterior margin is somewhat produced into a 

 collar, the ventral half of which springs into especial prominence 

 abruptly at the level of the setsE. Somite III is about one-third longer 

 than II and similarly biannulated, but its anterior margin is not col- 

 lared. Thus far the skin is entirely glandularly thickened. 



The following six segments (IV to IX) are decidedly longer, about 

 equalling their own diameter, and the secondary furrow, while always 

 present, is in a more anterior position not far behind the middle. 

 While the three anterior segments are glandular throughout, the ones 

 under discussion have the glandular area confined to the ventral half 

 of the body and especially to the anterior ring in the vicinity of the 




1906.] NATIRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



tori. Somites IX and X are indistinguishable, and on the latter the 

 now prominent tori have shifted to the posterior end of the segment. 



From this point the segments continue to lengthen to XIV, which is 

 about three times as long as thick, after which they again decrease. 

 Throughout the middle region the integiunents are soft and translucent, 

 except for the swollen, oral, glandular areas surrounding each torus. 

 Somites X"\'III, XIX and XX are again much thicker than long 

 and the tori are correspondingly large and prominent; XX is about 

 one-fourth as long as thick with a prominent pair of achffitous tori 

 much below the usual level and meeting ventraUy. 



The p3-gidium consists of a verj' short basal ring bearing a pair of 

 coalesced glandular thickenings corresponding to the tori of XX. 

 The anus is conspicuous and in a dorsal position at the base of the 

 dorsal membrane. The limbate margin of the p3'gidium bears a re- 

 markable resemblance to the cephalic plate, but is oblique in a reverse 

 direction. Its ventral two-fifths are separated rom the dorsal three- 

 fifths b}' a deep rounded notch, with thickened margins which nearly 

 meet externally and constrict its opening. The ventral portion has its 

 margin marked by four verj' broad, shallow crenulations and a pair 

 of prominent triangular lateral lobes. The dorsal plate is more 

 prominent and flaring, \^-ith a smooth and regular margin marked 

 onh' by a broad and extremely shallow median emargination. 



Somites I and II and the p3-gidium are achiEtous; II bears strictly 

 lateral setae only, arranged in a vertical tuft just above the dorsal ends 

 of the ventral collar; III and IV bear similar set£e tufts and xev}- short 

 series of uncini disposed in the same plane and both strictlj* lateral 

 and sessUe. On succeeding segments the setae tufts have short, slightly 

 oblique bases placed a little in advance of the uncini, which form lines 

 five or six times as long as those on the preceding somites, more ventral 

 in position, and elevated upon distinct tori. Proceeding caudad the 

 uncinial lines increase slightly in length and become more ventral in 

 position. The number of uncini in a torus Ls about 8 on III, 13 on V, 

 2S on X, 32 on X\' and 35 on XIX. 



The small tuft on II contains sette of two kinds, the one small -with 

 a rather wide wing and abruptly tapered stem terminating in a slender 

 tip; the other veiy much longer, with the stem conspicuously striated 

 the tips rigid and less slender anfl the wing ver\^ narrow (fig. 26). 

 On following somites the number of setee increases to 10 or 12 pairs, 

 the larger ones become stouter and the smaller more slender. By 

 somite XV the number is further reduced; the small setae exhibit only 

 minute pointed tips and the ends of the larger ones are elongated and 




236 PHOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



provided with easheatliiiig awns which apjjear to be disposed in sym- 

 metrical pairs. 



Anterior vuicini (on III) (fig. 27) have the head little enlarged and 

 somewhat thrown back, the stout, blunt, nearly straight beak some- 

 what elevated, the crest composed of a single large tooth with a cluster 

 of small ones surrounding its base, and the guard rudimentary or ab- 

 sent (fig. 28). In a succeeding tori there is a gradual transition to the 

 tjqDical form which appears at about ^'I. Such uncini (fig. 29) have 

 a distinct shoulder, well-defined neck and head, and a stout, tapering, 

 hooked beak with an acute, slightly recurved tip. The crest is well 

 developed and formed of two transverse rows of numerous teeth which 

 are largest at the vertex and become rapidly reduced laterally. The 

 guard is strong and arising well below the beak sweeps boldly bej-ond 

 and above its tip (fig. 30). 



The type and one other specimen were taken at Station -1,264, off 

 Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 282 to 293 fathoms, on a bottom of 

 green mud. 



Maldanella robusta sp. nov. Plate XI, figs. 31, 32. 



No complete .specimen of this species occurs in the collection, but 

 fortunately there are se\'eral heails and one posterior enil and it is 

 possible to so fit the fragments together as to secm-e a complete descrip- 

 tion. 



The worm thus reconstructed is a fine large one, measuring about 195 

 mm. long and 7.5 mm. in diameter at the middle part. Excluding the 

 pygidium there is twenty-one segments, of which the peristomium 

 and first preanal segment are acha^tous, II bears setce only, XX setse 

 only on one side, and III to XIX inclusive both seta; and uncini. 



The prostomium and peristomium are completely coalesced and 

 exliibit no trace of a dividing furrow or suture. The cephalic plate 

 meets the dorsal profile of the peristomium at an angle of approxi- 

 mately 135° to 150°, so that the ventral length of the head is nearly or 

 quite twice the dorsal. The cephalic jjlate has a nearly regular ellip- 

 soidal outline, with a length of abovit twice the width. Its thin margin 

 is elevated all round, highest anil most erect behind, thence slightly 

 diminishing in height to a point anterior to the middle where it is 

 folded and sometimes slightlj^ notched. Anterior to this point it 

 again becomes higher and more flaring until it curves into the base of 

 the palpode, from which it is separated by a slight cleft. Except for a 

 faint crenulation, the margin is entire. The median ridge is rather 

 broad and low, but extends through the anterior half or less only of the 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



cephalic plate, ending abruptl}' behind; anteriorlj^ it widens slightly 

 and passes partly into the marginal rim, partly into the palpode. On 

 each side of the ridge are deep sensory slits which anteriorly bend 

 somewhat sharplj- outward and backward, and continue along the base 

 of the lateral fold nearly as far as the posterior end of the median limb. 



From near the posterior end of the median ridge to the lateral fold 

 or notch in the marginal membrane passes a strictly transverse fmTow 

 on each side, lea\'ing an extensive area in the posterior region of the 

 head marked only by a few crescentic furrows parallel with the pos- 

 terior margin. The palpode is a short, broadlj^ rounded, rather thick, 

 tongue-like structiu'e which is continued backwartl on the ^•ent^al side 

 as a broad welt to the mouth, within which it bifurcates to form a pair of 

 ridges separated by a deep cleft. The mouth is relatively small and 

 bounded by a nearly circular fold, elevatetl and furrowed somewhat 

 like a piece of rope and which is open only anteriorly to admit the 

 posterior extension of the palpode. 



As before mentioned there is absolutely no visible line of separation 

 between prostomiura and peristomium, but the two together constitute 

 a continuous head, shaped somewhat like a horse's hoof;, that is, it 

 spreads anteriorh', where it Ls truncated obliquely by the cephalic 

 plate. The seven somites next following are cylindrical, with a nearly 

 uniform diameter about ecjualling the posterior diameter of the 

 peristomium, and a length but little greater. All have traces of anterior 

 collars, which are best developed on IV to VII, on which also the 

 glandular layer of the skin is thick and extensive. The skin of the 

 head and somites II to I\" is very smooth, iridescent and marked by 

 fijie furrows crossing in various directions, like those on the human 

 skin. Somites Y to VIII are of a dull, opac^ue, non-iridescent white. 

 Following this the body is distinctly depressed and the segments 

 elongated to two or three times their diameter. Thej' bear prominent 

 tori situated along broad elevated longitudinal nuiscle bands. 'Wliile 

 the greater part of the surface of the segments is smooth and has a 

 conspicuous bluish iridescence, the longitudinal muscle ridges are 

 vertically fiuTowed and, when the segments are much contracted, 

 these furrows are extended nearh' arountl the segment. With the 

 exception of ■^, the segments bounding which are continuous and 

 the place of transition of the parapodia from an anterior to a 

 posterior position, all of the furrows are well developed. Somite IX 

 is the last exhibiting a distinct glandular region, which is confined to a 

 narrow anterior zone. For nearly the entire length of the worm there 

 appears in the median ventral line a neural cleft in the muscles, having 




23S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



the aspect of a clear, translucent, bluish line. There is no diminution 

 in the length of the posterior setigerous segments, but the achsetous 

 segments are considerably reduced in both length and diameter. They 

 are terete, about twice as long as thick, have the surface deeply ^^Tin- 

 kled transversely and bear rather prominent tori in the posterior one- 

 third. Following these is the campanulate i^ygitlium which has a 

 narrow ringed base and a deep cup-shaped body, the margin of which 

 is divided into thirtj'-nine verj'' regular bluntly rounded teeth, the four 

 ventralmost of which are considerably broader than the others, while 

 at three other points one of the latter has been replaced by two smaller 

 ones. Both without and within the surface of the cup is longitudinally 

 fluted, and in the deeper part of the interior numerous fine ribs, usually 

 two to each marginal tooth, pass to the margin of the ^'er}' large anus. 



Somite II bears capillary setse only, which arise as a narrow vertical 

 tuft from a slit-like cleft into which they are retractile. Succeeding 

 segments, to XIX inclusive, bear both setse and uncini which are 

 strictly lateral in position, the dorsal interval between the setae scarcely 

 exceeding the ^■entral interval between the imcini. As far as somite 

 "\TII the sette continue to occur in the form of vertical tufts retractile 

 within slit-like pockets; and the uncini, which begin immediately 

 below the seta:^ and lie in the same plane, form strictly linear series 

 sessile or even depressed below the surface. On IX and all subsecpient 

 segments the setae are situated on rather prominent wart-like papillae 

 in the form of crescentic tufts open below; and the uncini are elevated 

 on the crests of swollen tori. On II, III and IV the parapodia are 

 situated in the anterior one-third; on V and VI they are but little 

 anterior to the middle; on \ll, ^TII and IX they are again near the 

 anterior end ; on X they shift abruptly to the posterior one-third and 

 so remain to the last. The posterior tori are especially prominent. 

 Wliether XX is normally setigerous cannot of course be determined 

 until additional specimens are known. 



The number of imcini increases toward the posterior end, the counts 

 being 22 to 26 on III, 35 to 42 on V, 45 to 50 on X', 53 to 57 on XV 

 and 60 on XIX. 



The setae are mmierous and form dense tufts. On II those of one 

 series are shorter and about three times as thick as the others antl have 

 well-developed wings. Those in the other series are slender and nearly 

 wingless. On succeeding somites all of the setae become much more 

 elongated and more slender, but do not differ otherwise, and appa- 

 rently lack altogether any lateral hairs or awns. 



As indicated above uncini (fig. 31) are numerous on all segments; 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



and are stout, striated, and of a deep yellow color throughout. They 

 differ very little in form on the different segments, the only noticeable 

 distinction being that the extreme anterior ones have the crest teeth 

 less well developed and the guard hau-s fewer. The rather long, 

 slender, ciu-ved stem has a distinct but tapering shoulder, a rather 

 long, erect neck and an enlarged head, below which is a very prominent 

 square guard process (fig. 32). The beak is stout and hooked, the crest 

 teeth three or four, the lowermost very large, the upper small or obso- 

 lete; sometimes, especially on anterior uncini, a pair of small but dis- 

 tinct lateral teeth is present. The guard is strong and consists of 

 about sixteen stiff hairs which arise from a scale-like base ensheathing 

 the front of the guard process, and spread regularly in an even curve 

 around the end of the beak, above which they arise convergingly to a 

 considerable height. 



The body of the alcoholics is generally colorless or pale yellow, but 

 the cuticle has a strong bluish ii-idescence throughout. 



A portion of a tube is soft and flexible, consisting of a thick mucoid 

 substance covered with a stratum of moderate thickness of soft grayish 

 brown silt. 



This species is evidently related to the three species of Maldanella 

 described by Mcintosh from the deep waters of the oceans of the 

 Southern hemisphere. The Japanese maldanid Clymene harai Izuka 

 { = Axioihea campanulata Moore) also belongs to this genus. 



The sources of the examples of .1/. robusta are Station 4,197, Gulf of 

 Georgia, 31 to 90 fathoms, bottom of sticky green mud and fine sand; 

 Station 4,230, Behm Canal, 108 to 240 fathoms, rocky bottom; and 

 Station 4,246, the type locality, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 

 101 to 123 fathoms, bottom of green mud with coarse sand and shell 

 fragments. 



Clymenella tentaculata sp. nov. Plate XI, figs. 33-35. 



This very interesting species is unfortunately imperfectly known, 

 the following description being based upon one anterior and one 

 posterior piece which may be parts of the same individual and which 

 together represent nearly an entire worm. 



The former measures 22 mm. long and 2 mm. wide at IX and con- 

 sists of the prostomium and nine segments ; the latter is much twisted 

 and the five setigerous segments, four achsetous preanal segments and 

 pygidium measure about 20 mm. long. 



The cephalic plate is very much expanded and flares widely at the 

 margin. Its outline is very broadly oval. The hinder third of the rim 

 is separated from the anterior two-thirds by a pair of small lateral 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



incisions, behind ^^■hich it is more erect and diminishes in height to a 

 minute median posterior notch. Anterior to the lateral incisions the 

 rather abruptl_y widened and flaring margins continue undiminished 

 almost to the palpode which they join on each side. The cephalic 

 margin is everywhere smooth and its margin entire. A pair of con- 

 spicuous sensory slits divide the central disk of the head for about 

 the anterior five-sixths of its length into three narrow longitudinal 

 areas of equal width which are united behind. The central one is 

 somewhat ridged and widens almost imperceptibly as it passes into 

 the palpode anteriorly. The palpode consists of a short rounded base 

 bearing a slender, elongated finger-like process on its median anterior 

 margin. 



The cephalic jalate forms a dorsal angle of about 120° or less with the 

 peristomium, which is indistinguishably coalesced with the prostomiiun. 

 It is little more than one-half as long as the cephalic plate and its sur- 

 face is slightlj- granulated but unwrinkled. Owing to the protrusion 

 of the proboscis, which has a depressed acorn-shape, with the basal 

 division thickly pajsiUated, the mouth is invisible. 



Somite II (the first setigerous) has a length about equalling the 

 width at the anterior end, from which it gradually diminishes in dia- 

 meter caudad. The next two segments are narrowerer, after which 

 the diameter increases gradually to "\'III, though the length remains 

 nearly constant ; IX has the same diameter, but if complete is scarcely 

 half as long as \TII. AU of these segments are transversely wrinkled 

 superficially and are provided with a distinct, raised neural line. No 

 prominent collars but merely a low free rim, most distinct on X, are 

 developed on their antei'ior ends. 



Owing to the much coiled and twisted condition the real proportions 

 of the distorted posterior segments cannot be easily ascertained. They 

 are evidently three or four times as long as wide, slender and thin- 

 skinned, except posteriorly where the prominent, swollen and glandu- 

 lar parapodia are de^■eloped. There are no especially developed 

 glandular zones or muscular ridges and the neural line is elevated 

 throughout. The last six or seven segments decrease in length and the 

 entire region tapers to the pygidium. The first of the posterior achee- 

 tous segments is about one and one-half times as long as wide and of a 

 shape similar to those preceding it, having fully develojjed but naked 

 tori on the posterior end. The next three are simple rings without 

 tori and of rapidly decreasing length. Terminating the bod}- is a 

 remarkably small, top-shaped pygidium lacking any limliate margin. 

 Instead there arises around the base of the anal jDapilla, which con- 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



.stitutes its greater part, a circle of twenty-three separate and distinct 

 cirri, all of which are slender, regular and equal, and not, as in many 

 species of the genus, alternately longer and shorter. Apparently they 

 increase slightly in size from the dorsal to the ventral side; and the 

 median ventral one is much elongated, its length equalling that of the 

 four achsetous segments combined or about ten times the length of the 

 other marginal papillie, and it is verj' slender distally. 



On the fh-st three setigerous somites (II to lY) about thirty setee 

 occur in each group and are disposed in small vertical tufts just above 

 the lateral line and about one-third of the length of the somite from 

 its anterior end. The small number of uncini (3 to 5) are sessile in 

 short, transverse lines just below the setse. On succeeding segments 

 the setse are more numerous and project upward and outward in tufts 

 from small tubercles. The uncini are more numerous (13 on V, 20 

 on IX, and still more posteriori}') and form longer lines widely separ- 

 ated below by a space of twice or more their own length. The tori 

 have become prominent swellings. On IX they have become trans- 

 ferred to the posterior end, although the boundary between this seg- 

 ment and A'lII is not clearly defined. This condition of the tori con- 

 tinues throughout the body, though they become even more prominent 

 posteriorly and are imited across the dorsum of each segment by a 

 glandular band. The dorsal interval between the setae is about equal 

 to the ventral interval between the uncini. The first achretous seg- 

 ment at the posterior end bears a pair of perfectly normal tori, but no 

 setffi or uncini. 



The setae are often imperfect and their distribution is worked out 

 only incompletely. Anterior segments have them all slightly curved, 

 delicate and narrowly winged, with very slender, tapering tips. They 

 occur in two series, one of finer, the other of coarser setae. Farther back 

 these two kinds become further differentiated. Both become longer 

 and the slender ones provided with short basal wings, beyond which is 

 a delicate capillary tip doubly fringed with strongh- divergent, very 

 fine hairs. 



All uncini are yellow and have the stems longitudinally striated. 

 Those of somites II to 1\, in which the number is small, have the form 

 shown in fig. 33. The stems are slender, slightly ciu'ved, regularly 

 enlarged, but with no distinct nodulus, then slightly constricted to a 

 neck, bearing a scarcely enlarged head (fig. 34), with a simple, tapering 

 unhooked beak, a small crest of three minute teeth and apparently no 

 guards. These luicini increase regularly to the dorsalmost, which 

 16 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



also has by far the most promhient beak. On the remaining somites 

 the uncini differ decidedl}' in the form of the head (fig. 35) which is 

 much enlarged backward. The smaller beak is more curved and 

 hooked, the crest high and prominent, with five or sometimes six non- 

 fibrous, imbricated teeth of diminishing size. The guard consists of 

 several (about 8) fine tapering hairs, which arise from a plate just 

 beneath the beak, the inferior outline of which they follow to the tip, 

 above which they then rise as curled inarched filaments. 



The alcoholic specimen is colorless, but the greatly developed para- 

 podial plexuses of bloodvessels indicate red bands during life. 



Some fragments of tubes are 3 mm. in diameter. Their flexible 

 walls are composed of a soft mucoid membrane covered with a thin 

 coating of very fine neatly deposited sand. 



This species presents interesting resemblances to Praxilla gracilis 

 (Sars) Malmgren in the form of the head and tentaculiform palpode> 

 to Clymenella catenata (^lalmgren) in the nimiber of achsetous preanal 

 somites, and to C. rubrocinda Jolinson in the elongated median ventral 

 pygidial cirrus. 



It is known only from Station 4,264, off Freshwater Bay, Chatham 

 Strait, July 25, 1903, 2S2 to 293 fathoms, bottom of green mud. 



Nicomaclie carinata sp. nov. Plate XI, figs 36-39. and Plate XII, figs. 43 and 44. 



A well-preserved but somewhat contracted specimen (the type) is 

 €5 mm. long and 3 mm. in diameter at the thickest part. Another in- 

 complete but more fully extended example must have exceeded twice 

 this length when complete. 



The prostomium and peristomium are coalesced, forming a continu- 

 ous head about IJ times as long as wide. The prostomial region is 

 nearly vertical with about its medial i formed by a ridge, which forms 

 a prominent profile, somewhat arched above and ending below and 

 anteriorly in a transverse crescent, separated by a slight groove from 

 the short, somewhat thickened palpode. The latter Ls continuous 

 with the similarly thickened lateral margins of the head, within which 

 is a pair of shallow longitudinal depressions, while within these again 

 and close to the median ridge are the distinct longitudinal sensory slits 

 or nuchal organs. 



The dorsal peristomial region is somewhat tumid anteriorly, with a 

 nearly straight profile posteriorly, but strongly arched transversely 

 throughout. From the prostomiimi it is slightly distinguished by a 

 faint transverse groove which passes laterally into the depression men- 

 tioned above and the groove which continues the latter posteriori}' to 

 the end of this segment. The mouth is a large elliptical opening siu-- 




1936.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



rounded by a rugous, furrowed lip. Just behind lliis lip is a shallow 

 transverse ventral groove, while near its posterior end this segment is 

 comjiletely encircled by another faint furrow which, like the groove 

 mentioned, is met by the longitudinal furrow on each side. 



Besides the pygidiimi the type has 24 segments, while the only other 

 complete specimen in the collection has 25. The peristomium is 

 achffitous, and somites II to XXII (or XXIII) inclusive are setigerous, 

 leaving two preanal achaetous segments, as in N. lumbricalis. Somite 

 II is as long as the head ; the next seven or eight segments are succes- 

 sively of slightly increased length, the last named being nearly twice as 

 long as the first. Behind IX several segments remain nearly equal in 

 length, then the length diminishes, at first slowly, then rapidly to the 

 last, the last three setigerous segments each equalling III in length and 

 the two achsetous preanal segments together barely exceeding the last 

 setigerous. Somites II, III and IV are of much greater diameter an- 

 teriorly, and slope to the posterior end which is inserted slightly into 

 the next succeeding segment. The next five segments (V to IX) are 

 more nearly cylindrical, but bear slightly produced glandular collars at 

 their anterior ends. The last four are simple short rings. At the two 

 ends of the body the intersegmental furrows are deep and distinct, but 

 in the middle region they are obscure. 



The jiygidium is funnel-form, but little widened, regidar and some- 

 what longer than the last two segments combined. On the type its 

 margin is divided into twenty-one equal and regular triangular teeth 

 each with a minute cirriform tip. The only other anal fimiiel present 

 has but sixteen marginal teeth and cirri. The anus is central and very 

 large, and is surrounded by about ten regular lobes separated by as 

 many radiating furrows. At about somite \lll the neural groove 

 begins to be distinct between the lateral muscle ridges and continues 

 to XXR', from which point a faint neural line continues across the 

 pj'gidium to end in the median marginal tooth which is narrower than 

 the others. The other anal funnel has the three median ventral teeth 

 smaller and the nerve cord terminating between two of them. 



No distinctly elevated tori or setigerous tubercles exist anterior to 

 XIII, on which the latter are midway between dorsum and venter, 

 and the ridge-like tori extend from just below them through the centre 

 of the broad glandular zone nearly to the neural line. On succeeding 

 segments they are even more prominent, and behind XV have shifted 

 with the glandular zone to the posterior end of the segment. Toward 

 the posterior end as the thin-walled portion of the segment diminishes 

 in length they become more central, and finally on XXI and XXII the 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April. 



swollen glandular tori form the entire length of the segment and bear 

 the luicini along the middle. Although XXII and XXIV are achffitous 

 they are similarly constituted. 



The head and first four segments are very smooth, iridescent and of a 

 uniform deep purple color above. The next three segments are smooth 

 and dull yellowish throughout; those of the middle region have pale 

 anterior glandular zones, the rest being yellowish and roughened, while 

 posterior segments are pale throughout and thin-walled, except for 

 the ventral longitudinal bands and posterior glandular zones. 



The. peristomium and two preanal segments are achsetous. Somites 

 II, III and IV have a single stout spine situated at about the end of 

 the anterior one-third of the segment and about twice as far from the 

 dorsal as from the ventral median line. A little above and in front of 

 this is a short vertical series of capillary setae. On the remaining 

 segments the setse form more prominent tufts arranged in vertical 

 series midway on the sides of the body and in the middle of the glandu- 

 lar area which lies on the anterior end of the somites as far as about 

 XV, then for some segments on the posterior end, and finally, with 

 the disappearance of the non-glandular region, occupies the entire seg- 

 ment. Uncini occur on all segments from V to XXII inclusive. They 

 are in all cases arranged in a single series in the same plane as the 

 setse, and extend in a line, for a greater or less distance according to 

 their number, on to the ventral surface. On the anterior segments 

 they are slightly larger and fewer, the number counted in the type 

 being 7 to 9 on V, 16 to 19 on X and 10 to 12 on XXII. 



The single ventral spines on II, III and IV are stout, fibrous and 

 yellow, tapering to a slightly curved, blunt, hard point. On the same 

 segments the notopodial tufts contain about six longer, stouter setse 

 (fig. 44) with longitudinally striated stems tapering to stiff, straight, 

 acute tips and provided with a broad and extensive wing on one side 

 and a very narrow one on the other; also a corresponding number, 

 arranged in a parallel row, of much shorter, more delicate setse (fig. 43) 

 with nearly wingless stems tapering to a long hair-like and very delicate, 

 flexible tip provided on each side with minute cilia-like hairs. The latter 

 are so minute that they are visible under high powers only. Except 

 for a slight increase in number the stouter setse remain unchanged 

 throughout, but the more delicate ones become considerably modi- 

 fied. By about the tenth segment they have become more numerous; 

 some of them (fig. 43) are only moderately elongated (about as much 

 or only slightly more than those of the preceding segments), but the 

 lateraj processes have become much larger, ensheathing and awn- 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



like, aiKl'may be arranged spirally (fig. 43a); others are very greatly 

 elongated, thread-like, openly spiral, tapered veiy gently to acute tips, 

 and have the lateral processes reduced to minute appressed scales (fig. 

 36). The latter spring in a group from the ventral side of the bundle. 



T3'pical crochets (figs. 3S and 39) have rather slender, strongly 

 curv-ed stems with an asymmetrical nodulus near the middle, the head 

 very little enlarged and provided with a stout, rather long, moderately 

 acute, strongly hooked, and slightly recurved rostrum, above which 

 is a prominent crest consisting of five, or sometimes of four, depressed, 

 overlapping, diminishing teeth. There are no lateral teeth, but the 

 striations end in several groups of conspicuous markings just below 

 the principal teeth. The guard arises close beneath the rostrum, but 

 separated from the latter by a distinct space. There is no distinct 

 guard process or shoulder, but the guard arises as a distinct transverse 

 plate, soon becoming divided into about twelve slender, tapering fila- 

 ments, which spread around the end of the rostrum or overarch it. 

 The stem, neck and posterior part of the head are strongly striated. 

 Posteriorly the stems of the uncini increase in length. On somite V 

 all of the uncini have the form shown in fig. 37. The stem is straighter, 

 beak less hooked and the teeth of the crest fewer and more erect. 

 The guard Is rudimentary. 



The head and succeeding three or four segments are very smooth, 

 iridescent and of a uniform deep purple or reddish-brown color above, 

 not at all spotted or blotched ; the next three segments are smooth and 

 yellowish throughout; those of the middle region have pale anterior 

 glandular zones, the remaining parts being j'ellowish and roughened ; 

 while posterior segments are pale throughout and thin-walled, except 

 in the position of the longitudinal muscles and glandular zones. 



The tubes are stout, thick-walled, hard but fragile structm-es, com- 

 posed of fine sand grains, sponge spicules and bits of rock cemented 

 together firmly and lined by a thin mucoid layer. Several tubes are 

 sometimes coherent side by side. 



Fragments of this species occur in the collections from the Gulf of 

 Georgia, Station 4,197, 31 to 90 fathoms, on a bottom of sticky green 

 mud and fine sand, and Station 4,198, 157 to 230 fathoms, on a soft green 

 mud bottom. The type locality is Station 4,227, in the vicinity of 

 Naha Baj', Behm Canal, 62 to 65 fathoms, dark green mud and fine 

 sand. 



Nicomache carinata is easilj- distinguished from ^V. personaia John- 

 son by the possession of two achsetous preanal segments, while the 

 latter has but one. In this respect it resembles N. lumhricales llalmg., 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



but differs from that species in color, the form of the imcini and spines 

 and the greater nmnber of marginal divisions of the pygidium. 



Lambriolymene pacifica sp. nov. Plate XII. figs. 40^2. 



The type and largest complete specimen, which is unduly elongated 

 through maceration of the middle region, is 103 mm. long and 2 mm. 

 in diameter. 



The head (composed of prostomium and peristomium) is slightly 

 compressed laterally and very short, the length only very slightly 

 exceeding the depth. It totally lacks a cephalic plate and has a 

 nearly straight dorsal profile, meeting the vertical and convex anterior 

 profile at nearly a right angle. There is just the faintest indication of 

 a palpode and of the anterior end of the median ridge. About midway 

 on the side of the head a longitudinal furrow extends from the furrow 

 jl to a point just over the mouth, and just anterior to the ends of 

 these furrows are the nuchal organs — a pair of small roimd depres- 

 sions. A few faint short furrows rim from near the end of the longi- 

 tudinal furrow toward the mouth, and behind the latter the longitudinal 

 furrow is cut b}' a transverse furrow which is very strongly developed 

 on the dorsal side but fades out ventrally. From the posterior end 

 of the peristomiimi a short re-entering half-ring is cut ofT ventrally by 

 a rather distinct furrow which ends dorsally at the longitudinal furrow. 

 The mouth is a rather conspicuous transverse slit situated about 

 opposite the middle of the head and bounded both anteriorly and 

 posteriorly by rather prominent lips, the former of which is marked 

 by a short but deep longitudinal fiu-row. 



Somite II is slightly shorter than the head. Behind it the segments 

 increase regularly in length to IX at least, which is about three times 

 as long as the head. Behind this several segments are probabh^ stiU 

 longer, but owing to theii- much softened state the exact length is 

 uncertain. At the posterior end XVI is about as long as ^T or VII 

 and succeeding segments diminish rapidly, XIX and XX together only 

 about equalling V in length. The two achsetous preanal segments are 

 again much reduced. 



E.xcept that at the extreme posterior end a few are provided with 

 prominent tori, all somites appear to be perfectly cylindrical. Somites 

 II, III and IV bear setae about the middle and just behind them is a 

 faint furrow. The next five bear them near the anterior end just 

 behind the glandular girdle. Posterior somites have their large swollen 

 tori situated near their posterior ends and bearing the small tufts 

 of setee above and moderatelj' long lines of crochets below. The two 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



]3reanal segments have two tubercle.s on each side, one above the other, 

 in the position of the tori, but without setae or uncini. 



In the type the pygidium is very short — ^less tlian the two preanal 

 segments — and is terminated squarely by a simple slightly convex 

 plate of broadly elliptical outline. Another specimen has the pygidium 

 more extended and nearly twice as long (on the dorsal side) as the two 

 jireceding segments, and the terminal plate is oblicjue at about 45°. 

 In both specimens the plate is margined by a just evident fold, con- 

 tinuous except on the median ventral region. Just anterior to this 

 margin dorsally is the anus. 



The color is well preserved at the anterior end in a sharply con- 

 trasted pattern of reddish brown and white. On the head the former 

 color occurs as follows: over the entire frontal siuface, a half-ring on 

 the dorsum of the posterior end of the prostomium, and a broad ring 

 which occupies most of the peristomium and which is much more 

 deeply colored dorsal to the longitudinal furrow than below it. The 

 white areas are a broad band occupying the sides and dorsum of the 

 prostomixun above the mouth, and a very narrow ring on the anterior 

 end of the peristomium. On several succeeding segments the arrange- 

 ment is in a narrow anterior red ring, then a white ring occupying most 

 of the glandular zone, and succeeding this an extensive red area 

 occupying all of the rest of the segment. These colors are best devel- 

 oped on the dorsum, and gradually fade imtil by about somite VII 

 only a nearly uniform dull yellow prevails. The glandular areas are, 

 howe\-er, always whiter and more opacjue than the remainder of the 

 segment. 



The peristomium and two preanal somites are achsetous, II to V 

 bear small tufts of dorsal capillary bristles, and immediately below 

 them two stout straight spines. Remaining somites have dorsal setae 

 tufts, and Iielow them ventral series of crochets occupying from one- 

 eighth to one-sixth of the circumference of the segment. 



The anterior spines (fig. 40) are deep yellow, with opaque filirous 

 centres and straight blunt ends. In each tuft the setas munber from 

 fourteen to twenty in two ranks. On the proximal ]mrt of the exjiosed 

 portion is a rather wide wing, obliciueh- striated and often frayed and 

 fringed on the free margin. Just Ijelow this the shaft is usually con- 

 stricted, and beyond it tapers to a capillary tip which is short on the 

 anterior and very long and delicate on the posterior segments, but 

 always, so far as determined, quite devoid of hairs or awns. 



Crochets are always few in number, never more than nine to fourteen 

 occurring in each torus. They (fig. 41) are similar on all segments and 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



have well-differentiated shoulder, neck and head. The latter (fig. 

 42) bears a stout, strongly hooked beak, above which are four stout 

 profile teeth of diminishing size, flanked by a few small lateral teeth. 

 The guard arises well below the beak and consists of about twelve 

 coarse fibres which spread in front of and above the apex of the latter. 

 The internal fibrous structure is strongly developed. 



Several tubes of this species occur in the collection and are interest- 

 ing in structure. They measiu-e 70 to 80 mm. long and 2.5 mm. in 

 diameter, and occur either singly or attached in groups or to foreign 

 bodies. Theu walls are thin but hard and very brittle and are com- 

 posed chiefly of small sand grains and sponge spicules, the latter of 

 which are so attached that their pointed ends project freely toward 

 the mouth of the tube. Various kinds of foraminifera and other 

 foreign bodies are attached to the tubes, which are always dark- 

 colored at the distal end and clean and pale elsewhere. 



Two complete worms and a fragment together with four or fi^e tubes 

 were taken at Station 4,264, off Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 2S2 

 to 293 fathoms, bottom of green mud. 

 Sabellaria cementarium sp. nov. Plate XII, figs. 45-51. 



The fine species which represents the genus SabcUaria along the 

 Pacific coast from Washington to Alaska is represented by a number of 

 specimens, but unfortunately onl}'- one of these is complete, the others 

 having lost the posterior end either through an attempt to remove the 

 living worm from their tubes or by maceration in the tubes. 



The t}-pe and only perfect specimen is 81 mm. long, of which the 

 very slender fecal tube contributes 28 mm. The operculum has a 

 diameter of 4.5 mm., the thorax a width of 6 mm., from which thick- 

 ness the abdomen tapers regularly to about 2 mm. at the posterior 

 end and then suddenly contracts to the 1 to 1.5 mm. of the fecal tube. 



Counting the peristomium there are five thoracic segments exliibit- 

 ing three distinct tj^Des of setation, then follow forty ordinary ab- 

 dominal segments and about forty-six segments in the reduced fecal 

 tube: finally the pygidium is a tubular structure 1.5 mm. long and .6 

 mm. in diameter with its posterior end serrate with about twenty 

 minute teeth. 



The prostomium is minute and completeh' concealed beneath the 

 enormousty developed peristomium. The small sUt-like mouth is 

 enclosed between a pair of closely appressed longitudinal folds, 

 bounded laterally and somewhat enfolded ventrally by the enlarged 

 palps, which are completely connate with the peristomium. 



The peristomium is greatly enlarged and in the type measures 6.5 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



mm. long and 4.5 mm. wide. Dorsally it is completely closed, over- 

 arching and concealing the prostomium and mouth. Together with 

 the palpi which it bears below it forms a broad fiat plate, of which the 

 palps form the margins and are rolled inward and nearly touch ven- 

 trally. At its distal end the peristomium bears the operculum — a 

 circular or somewhat elliptical disk directed slightly dorsad and com- 

 posed of three whorls of stout, stiff, hard spines or peristomial setae, 

 so fitted together that they form a flexible and at the same time close- 

 fitting and impenetrable plug to the tube. There are some indications 

 in one specimen that this region may be regenerated when lost. The 

 j)aleoli of the three rows differ in form and mmiber as indicated below. 

 Just external to and below the operculum is a circle of rather promi- 

 nent conical opercular papilliE, which probably represent the much sub- 

 divided dorsal cirri of the peristomium. They are clearly divided in 

 two symmetrical halves like the opercular jjaleoli, and number 16 to 20 

 on each side. 



The palps may be opened from the ventral side and spread, together 

 with the peristomium, as a flattened plate deeply pigmented below 

 and bearing the branchial folds on the lateral thirds. Anteriorly the 

 two palps are conjoined in the operculum, the branchiae also meeting 

 in the middle line below and behind the operculum. From 12 to 18 

 of these branchial folds or ridges occur on each side, the usual number 

 in full-grown specimens being 18 pairs. They are prominent ridges 

 running transversely across the free ventral margin of the' palps and 

 diminishing in size from behind forward. Owing to the medial bend- 

 ing of the anterior end of the palps, the anterior six pairs of branchite 

 are arranged in the form of an arch and several of them lie in a nearly 

 antero-posterior plane. Each gill consists of a stiff plate or ridge, 

 with a serrate free margin behind which the filaments are borne. 

 Except the very last, which usually bears but 10 filaments, the pos- 

 terior gill ridges have about 20, the number decreasing regularly to the 

 most anterior. All gill filaments are very slender and thread-like 

 and the longest posterior ones equal the width of the peristomium. 



At the base of the branchial region is a pair of short rounded lobes 

 having much the aspect of the branchial plates, but shorter and thicker 

 than they and coming in contact across the mouth slit. Continuing 

 from this dorsally is a sloping ridge bearing a pointed conical cirrus 

 longer than the rounded lobe, and above this again a small tubercle 

 carrying a fan-shaped tuft of slender setae. 



Somite II is a short, simple ring partly fused with I and III ventrally 

 to form the first ventral gland plate. Laterally it bears three conical 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



cirri, the ventral about as long as the segment, the middle about two- 

 thirds as long, and the dorsal more than twice as long, slender distally 

 and resembling the brandiitr, with which it stands as the first of a 

 series. 



The remaining three thoracic segments are a little longer and IV 

 and \ bear distinct ventral glandular plates. Their neuropodial setse 

 are stouter than those on I and II, but have no associated cirri and 

 arise from the anterior margin of the segment on a level about mid- 

 way between the neuropodial tufts of I and II. Each of these seg- 

 ments bears a dorsal cirrus or gill similar to that on II and in line with 

 it, leaving a broad, naked area on the dorsum. Unlike II these somites 

 bear no middle cirrus, but in place of it a prominent vertically elongated 

 notopodial tubercle bearing a vertical series of large, coarse, paddle- 

 shaped setae. 



Abdominal segments are somewhat flattened and only obscurely 

 separated. As indicated above they decrease gradually in both 

 length and diameter to the caudal appendage. Dorsally they present a 

 somewhat arched area between the rows of gills and ventrally are 

 excavated by a deep groove for the fecal tube, which is held in place 

 by the tufts of slender neuropodial setse crossing from side to side 

 beneath it. 



The body walls are exceedingly thin and delicate in the dorsal 

 median area and permit the intestine to show through distinctly; the 

 sides and ventral parts are decidedly thicker and more muscular. 

 The abdominal gills have the same general form and position as the 

 thoracic but are more perfect in structure, having larger blood-vessels, 

 thinner walls and more numerous and prominent transverse ciliated 

 ridges along their medial aspect. The first five or six are also much 

 longer and have a length equal to the width of the interbranchial area. 

 From this point they decrease in size veiy grachially and are totally 

 absent from the last five or six segments. 



On the first abdominal segment the parapodia are very extensively 

 developed and the notopodial uncinigerous tori occupy the entire 

 side of the segment from the branchia nearh' to the ventral median 

 line. "\'entrally they become higher and terminate in a small free 

 lobe, from laeneath which arises a delicate ventral cirrus, and below 

 this again the small neuropodial tubercle with its tuft of setae. The 

 tori decrease in length chiefly from the dorsal end, at first very slowly ,^ 

 then rapidly and at the same time become more sharply defined as 

 distinct, thin, outstanding lobes bearing the uncini on their margins. 

 Toward the posterior end they become merely small prominent pro- 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



cesses with somewhat constricted stalks standing midway between 

 the branchiae and the neiiropodial setse tuft. After the fu-st abdominal 

 segment the neuropodial cirrus quickly becomes reduced and in four 

 or five segments has become quite rudimentary or totally absent. 



The caudal or fecal tube has already been partly described. It is 

 very delicate and thin-walled and bears no trace whatever of para- 

 podia. Along its ventral side, however, what appear to be nerve 

 ganglia can be distinctly seen and counted through the body wall, 

 and delicate lines running in pairs from their neighborhood dorsad 

 and cephalad have the same metameric arrangement. 



The type specimen is richlj' colored. The outer whorl of paleoli are 

 a warm golden, the inner a golden brown. The thoracic region is a 

 rich sienna brown, especially deep on the dorsal interbranchial region 

 of the peristomium as well as of succeeding segments, and on the sides 

 of the latter and the first ventral plate. The ventral post-branchial 

 lobe of I and the dorsal branchiae are also well colored, but other cirri 

 are pale. The gill filaments are pale purple, each with a deep brown 

 basal spot. This specimen Ls a male, and the abdomen is colored pale 

 cream from the contained sperm. Except for delicate lines formed 

 of minute dots of reddish brown, which begin at the ventral setae tufts 

 and then pass dorsad along the anterior margin of the segment and in 

 most cases continue on to the antero-lateral margin of the giU, there is 

 no pigment in this region. The intestine is filled with a greenish-gray 

 matter that colors the fecal tube. Most of the other specimens are 

 paler, but one has the anterior brown parts of a deep chocolate. The 

 genital products escape by means of a pair of openings through the 

 body walls behind the parapodia of each segment and in several cases 

 from large masses within the tubes. 



The opercular paleoli vary from bright yellow to the more usual 

 deep golden brown. They are all very stout, hard and rigid, and of 

 peculiar irregular forms difficult of accurate description. All have 

 slender, elongated stems, smooth superficially but striated longi- 

 tudinalh' at the core, bearing very hea^'^• and strong external blades, 

 the great part of whose surface is roughened by numerous fine wa^y 

 parallel ridges which are slightlj- imbricated with their edges directed 

 outward. The markings are not shown in the figures. 



The outer whorl of normal opercula contains from .39 to 6-1, according 

 to the size of the worm, between 50 and 60 being the most usual num- 

 ber. They are arranged in two sj-mmetrical groups, though there 

 appears to be a decided tendency for the right half to include one or 

 two more than the left. Exclusive of the stem they (fig. 45o) consist 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMV OF [April, 



of a massive irregularly twisted base, from which arises a tongue-like 

 piece the end of which is strongly flattened at right angles to the great- 

 est thickness of the base and terminates in a fringed tip, from the 

 central cleft of which arises a slender, densely hairy process (fig. 46). 

 These paleoli are so arranged that thej' present a spreading rim, in 

 which their twisted form causes the basal portions to be somewhat 

 imbricated from l^elow dorsalwards. 



The middle paleoli number from 14 to 25, usually about 20, in sym- 

 metrical halves. They (fig. 45?») also have a thickened base, from 

 which arises a very' prominent upright spine, gracefully curved and 

 tapered to an acute tip. The inner circle of paleoli contains from 14 to 

 22, but in nearly all cases they ecjual and alternate with those of the 

 middle row. They (fig. 450 have abruptly widened cleaver-shaped ends 

 bearing a knife-like edge and strengthened on the opposite side by a 

 thickened rim which ends in a short triangular beak. They are dis- 

 posed somewhat oliliquely to the middle line and converge ventrally. 



Somite II bears a small tuft of strongly doubty-f ringed, feather-like 

 neuropodial setae (figs. 49 and 50). On III the neuropodial setae are 

 partly of a short, more brush-like form and partly verj' small and of a 

 slender, slightly fringed form. On the remaining thoracic segments 

 they all become more sparsely fringed. The notopodials (fig. 47) on 

 III, IV and ^' form a single vertical series of stout setae, shaped like 

 an Indian paddle with the end much split and frayed. At the base of 

 each of these is a minute spatulate hairy setie, with the end entire and 

 somewhat produced in the miildle. and the blade bent flatways. 



Abdominal setae are all very long and slender, but owing to different 

 states of develo]3ment appear of unequal length. Their shafts (fig. 

 48) are provided with numerous "\\'horls of hairs united at the base 

 into collars and much produced on one side. 



Tlie uncini (fig. 51) are very numerous and varj' from 100 to 200 or 

 even more on a torus. They are nearh' colorless, delicate and incon- 

 spicuous, and consist of narrow elongated bodies provided witli from 

 7 to 9 (seldom the former) very acute, appressed, overlapping teeth 

 which are arranged in one series and diminish in size toward both ends. 

 Each bears a stiff and rather brittle tendon at each end, the upper one 

 being short and expanded distally into a small plate, while the lower 

 bifurcates immediately into a shorter, irregularly thickened, more ven- 

 tral branch and a slender uniform branch greatly elongated to many 

 times the length of the uncini.- 



This species is probalily rather conmion and occurs in the collections 

 from the following stations: 4,220 (type), Admiralty Inlet, near Port 




1906.] XATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253- 



Townsend, Washington, 16-31 fathoms, green mud, sand and broken 

 shells; 4,247, Prince of Wales Island, 89-114 fathoms, green mud with 

 sand and broken shells; 4,274 (cotypes), Kadiak Island, 35-41 fathoms, 

 green nuul and fine sand. 



Samytha bioculata ?p. nov. Plate XII, figs. 52, S3. 



The anterior prostomial lobe is quadrate, broader than long, its 

 anterior border wider than the posterior, shghtly concave and its 

 lateral angles somewhat produced. Immediately behind and separ- 

 ated from it by a distinct transverse fm-row is a second small quadrate 

 lobe, with a rather prominent eye or close aggregation of several 

 pigment specks at each antero-lateral angle. Behind this lobe the 

 peristomiimi forms a broad, smooth, slightly convex area reaching ta 

 the branchiae. Vent-rally there is a very broad truncate imder lip 

 with a glandular margin. In the two known specimens only four to 

 six very short clavate tentacles exist on each side. 



The considerably enlarged peristomium projects ventrally as a 

 broad lobe enveloping the lower Yip and is marked by a narrow trans- 

 verse line of gland cells. Elsewhere it is a simple smooth convex ring. 

 The second somite is about two-thirds as long and marked by a broader 

 glandular half-ring. The third (first setigerous) somite is very short,, 

 but succeeding ones increase in length rapidly and by about VHI equal 

 the peristomium. All of the thoracic segments, of which there are 

 nineteen, the last seventeen of which are setigerous, are somewhat 

 muscularly thickened on the ventral half and provided with a narrow 

 presetal half-girdle of glands. The entire dorsum between the setae 

 tufts is thin-walled and smooth throughout. 



Fourteen segments in the type and larger specimen, and thirteen in 

 the smaller cotype, form the abdomen. In the former this region 

 comprises about one-thiril of the entire length ; in the cotype not more 

 than one-fourth. Owing to the projection of the parapodia from the 

 angles this region is decidedly quadrate, but somewhat arched dorsally 

 and marked ventrally by a narrow neural groove. The somites dimin- 

 ish regularly in all dimensions from before backward and the entire 

 region tapers to the pygidium, which forms a ring surrounding the large 

 anus and bears a pair of slender, prominently projecting cirri about 

 equal to half the diameter of the body at the posterior end. 



The four pairs of branchiae are so much crowded antero-posteriorly 

 that they appear to form a single series extending ciuite across the 

 dorsal area of II and III^ Closer study shows that two are anterior 

 and slightly more lateral and two posterior and more median. They 

 are all similar, slightly- flattened, slender and elongated, their length 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



being about tliree times the diameter of the region of the body from 

 which they spring. 



Setffi begin on III as a pair of minute tufts arising from an elevated 

 position just beneath the gills. The tufts on IV are also small and 

 placed nearly as high. On succeeding somites the setae become larger 

 and more numerous and the tufts gradually assume a low station on 

 the sides of the body as the abdomen is approached. They continue 

 to XIX. 



Uncinial tori begin on "\T, or the fourth setigerous somite. Through- 

 out the thoracic region they are low, but freely projecting, compressed 

 folds which arise immediately ventral and slightly posterior to the 

 sette tufts and end ventrally in a freely hanging lobe or process. On 

 abdominal segments the notopodia are distinctly separated from the 

 neuropodia and project as small papillae from the dorsal angles of the 

 bodj'. The neuropodia are small, compressed lappets constricted at 

 the base and bearing the uncini along the free margin ; apparently they 

 lack cirri. 



Setse are all of one kind, slender, tapered and narrowly winged on 

 both sides of the free portion nearly to the very acute tip. The uncini 

 form a close single rank in which they are cjuite numerous (108 on X). 

 From dorsal to ventral end of each series they decrease in length. 

 They (fig. 52) are roughly triangular with a nearly square but sometimes 

 projecting upper ligament process, above which the tooth-bearing 

 margin rises but slightly. The inferior process varies in form, but is 

 usually more or less incur\-ed. Those of the type specimen almost 

 constantly bear four long, slender, acute, overlapping teeth, the ven- 

 tralmost of which is the stoutest, the two middle the longest and the 

 upper the most slender. On the cotype a fifth smaller and sometimes 

 minute tooth exists at the upper end of nearl}- all uncini (fig. 52a). 

 Abdominal uncini (fig. 53) have the same form, but are much fewer in 

 number. 



This species is founded on two much macerated specimens, of which 

 the larger and type is 30 mm. long and filled with large ova. The 

 smaller example is 16 mm. long. 



A nearly complete tul-)e is 65 mm. long. Its basal third is soft, 

 thin-walled and membranous. Beyond this the walls gradually 

 thicken by the accumulation of silty material until they attain a 

 diameter of about 5 mm. This entire region of the tube is supported 

 and protected by siliceous sponge spicules, the ends of which project 

 in all directions and produce a very firm and bristling structure. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



Both specimens come from Station 4,197, Gulf of Georgia, 31 to 90 

 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand. 



Ampliicteis soaphobranchiata sjj. nov. Plate XII, figs. 54-61. 



A single \\ell-preserved specimen represents this noteworthy species. 

 The length without branchiiE is 32 mm., the branchiffi 7 mm., and the 

 maximum mdth in the anterior part of the thorax 2.8 mm. 



The anterior lobe of the prostomium (fig. 54) is almost completely 

 divided by a longitudinal furrow into a pair of somewhat slender 

 tentacle-like divisions which are somewhat divergent anteriorly. A 

 narrow transverse welt passes across the base of this region and is 

 partly concealed by the much larger and more prominent sensory 

 folds which lie behind it. These pass from the lateral borders of the 

 head nearly transversely to the middle line, where they meet in a wide 

 angle. Laterally they are continuous with the lateral lobes or folds 

 which join the frontal lobe beneath. The tentacular membrane lies 

 below the frontal and lateral lobes and is partly embraced by the 

 peristomium. It bears from twelve to fifteen tentacles on each side, 

 the lateral ones being very short and the middle ones as much as two- 

 thirds the width of the thorax. All and especially the shorter ones 

 are more or less clavate. 



The prostomium passes without any clear demarkation into the 

 peristomium, which reaches as a smooth unbroken convex surface to 

 the branchial segment. Dorsalh' it is remarkable for its extent, 

 smoothness and absence of furrows. Its length and breadth are each 

 equal to about two-thirds of the wddth of the branchial segment. In 

 the middle line it reaches to the interbranchial shield, but its postero- 

 lateral angles are cut off by the paleolar tubercles and lateral portions 

 of somite II. A'entralh' the peristomium forms a large, broadly trun- 

 cated lower lip, slightly inserted into II and embraced laterally by the 

 paleolar tubercles. 



The second somite is more than half as long ventrally as the peristo- 

 miiun, but except for the narrow strip extending dorsally beneath the 

 branchiae it ends abruptly at the enlarged paleolar tubercles. Somite 

 III is very short and IV slightly longer, the two combined just equalling 

 the length of II. Behind this region the segments again diminish in 

 both length and diameter to the pygidium. With the exception of 

 the last three or four, the thoracic segments are ill defined on the ven- 

 tral and not at all on the dorsal side. Up to the level of the setae tufts, 

 where a lateral shelf-like ridge is formed, the body walls are rather 

 thick and firm, \\'ith slight anterior glandular bands and obscure 

 ventral plates. Dorsal to the setae the body for the entire length is 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



perfectlj' smooth ami unsegmented. The last three or four thoracic 

 segments are transitional in character to the abdominal. The latter 

 are more distinctly differentiated, owing in part to their more promi- 

 nent parapodia and in part to the greater depth of the ventral furrows. 

 The last few segments are separated by obvious furrows even on the 

 dorsal side. Owing to its being crushed the pj'gidium cannot be 

 described further than to refer to the pair of prominent, slender and 

 stiff cirri which it bears. A distinct neural groove extends through- 

 out the abdominal region and even on to several of the posterior thora- 

 cic segments. A remarkable smoothness and peculiar dull iridescence 

 characterizes the entire cuticle of this worm. 



If normally formed in this specimen the branchire are highly char- 

 acteristic. All four pairs are large and stout and arise in the usual 

 manner, two pairs anterior and more lateral from II and III and two 

 more posterior and median from 1\, those of each side being com- 

 pletely coalesced at the base. A small shield-shaped area separates 

 them in the middle line, but otherwise they cover the entire width of 

 the dorsum. Mewed from above they cover and conceal the entire 

 head and curve downward in front of the prostomium and beneath the 

 tentacles. All are very broad and flat at the base, especially the two 

 inner ones on each side. In the case of three of them the outer one- 

 third is less flattened and tapers to a bhmt point. The anterior median 

 of both sides, however, expands into a broad fiat plate (fig. 56) some- 

 what lobed on the margins and terminated by a tapering process bent 

 sharply on itself into a hook. This process is complete on one side 

 only, having been broken off of the other. Probably all of the branchiae 

 are straight in life, but they are peculiarly stiff and rigid and their 

 cuticular covering is thick and marked by fine transverse stride, but 

 otherwise smooth. 



Thoracic parapodia consist of simple setigerous tubercles arising 

 from the lateral muscular shelf and short auriculate tori with both 

 dorsal and ventral angles produced somewhat freely. Abdominal 

 parapodia (fig. 57) consist of prominently projecting hatchet-shaped 

 ventral tori, each bearing a minute cirriform process, and sharply 

 bent, clavate dorsal cirri which replace the setigerous tubercles of the 

 thoracic region. Parapodia of successive somites are united by a 

 beaded muscular ridge which passes along the side of the aljdomen 

 between the torus and cirrus. The worm consists of thirty-two seg- 

 ments, of which II bears the paleoli. III to XIX ordinary sette, and VI 

 to XXXII uncini. 



The paleoli (fig. 58) are of a clear, bright glistening straw color and 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



are arranged in a half tubular figiu-e at the base, from which they 

 diverge and spread distally in a fan-shaped fascicle. In each tuft the 

 shortest one (at the inner end of the posterior limb) is about twice as 

 stout as the longest. Distally they all taper regularly and rather 

 rapidly to very long, slender, acute and stiff tips. Except for these 

 tips they are striated conspicuously in both the longitudinal and 

 transverse direction. 



The ordinary setse (fig. 59) are few in number and form rather small 

 close tufts. They are apparently similar on all segments, being rather 

 slender wath tapering stems and acute, tapering tips, striated some- 

 what obliquely, and provided on one side with a wing of moderate 

 width marked with distinct oblique strise. 



The uncini are numerous on the thoracic segments (135 on X). 

 They have the form shown in figs. 60 and 60a, being roughly tri- 

 angular, with large bases, a prominent superior ligament process, a 

 projecting rounded lower angle and long tooth-bearing border with 

 five or six strong acute teeth, the lowermost of which is peculiarly 

 bevelled and covers a short inferior ligament process which nearly 

 touches its lower surface. Abdominal uncini (fig. 61) are fewer in 

 number (78 on XXV), much smaller, and formed quite differently. 

 They have small bases and high outstanding tooth-bearing rami, and 

 apparently lack the inferior ligament process. 



Several thick-walled mud tubes in the same bottle were probably 

 fashioned by this species. 



Ty]3e locality. Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver 

 Island, B. C, Station 4,201, 138 to 145 fathoms, soft green mud, sand 

 and broken shells. 



Chone gracilis sp. nov. Plate XII. figs. 62-66. 



A very pretty small species resembling Chone duneri Malmgren in 

 proportions but differing from that species in the short, and broadly 

 winged, barbless tips of the branchiae. From C. teres Bush this 

 species is easily distinguished by its much longer branchite, small 

 number of abdominal segments and the more elongated form of the 

 abdominal uncini. 



The type specimen has a total length of 32 mm., of which the 

 branchiffi make 12 nmi. and the thorax 5 mm., the diameter for nearly 

 the entire length being about 2 mm. 



The branchial bases are simple and very low, being completely con- 

 cealed by the high collar. Ten pairs of delicate branchiae extend 

 equally to a length of more than one-half of the body. The stems are 

 united by a very deUcate membrane for three-fifths of their length and 

 17 




258 PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



the remainder is broadly winged on both sides. The barbs are ver}' 

 deUcate and are absent from an acute foliaceous tip about 2 mm. long. 

 Eyes are totally wanting. 



A collar of the form typical of the genus rises to a height of two and 

 one-half times the length of the segment which follows it. The dorsal 

 ends are refolded into the dorsal sinus and a slight notch occurs in a 

 median ventral position ; otherwise it is quite simple. The very small 

 tentacles are shorter than the diameter of the body. 



Nine segments, 8 of which are setigerous, form the thorax and 51 

 segments the abdomen. For nearly its entire length the body is 

 cylindrical and of almost uniform diameter, but in the posterior fourth 

 becom&s somewhat broader and depressed before tapering rapidly to 

 the caudal end. No distinct glandular ventral plates are developed, 

 but all of the thoracic and the anterior three or four abdominal 

 segments are completely encircled by a thick glandular layer. The 

 thoracic and a few anterior abdominal segments are strongly biannulate, 

 the middle abdominal are simple and half as long as wide, while the 

 posterior are much shorter and more crowded. The fecal groove is 

 distinct on the caudal fourth of the abdomen, and conspicuous on a 

 few anterior abdominal segments, also where it passes obliquely around 

 the right side of the first abdominal segment and on the dorsum of 

 the thorax ; elsewhere it is faint or absent. A few small ova are present 

 in the coelom. Every portion of this worm is white, without a trace 

 of pigment anywhere. 



All setse tufts are short but rather prominent ; uncinigerous tori are 

 also shoi't and nearly uniform, diminishing only slowly and regularly 

 from the first to the last. The setse and uncini are all delicate and 

 colorless. The collar fascicle consists of a small number of narrowly 

 winged, acute, capillary setae. Remaining thoracic somites have a 

 larger number of partly capillary, partly spatulate setae placed be- 

 tween two small lappet-like processes. The former consist of a dorsal 

 row of acute tapering setae with one moderately wide and one just 

 perceptible wing and a small number of very small and inconspicuous 

 crooked setae (fig. 62) with rudimentary wings found below the spatu- 

 lated setae. The spatulate setae (fig. 64) are arranged in two rows of 

 about ten each; they have delicate, striated, usually symmetrical, 

 obovate blades, and long very slender mucronate processes. The 

 abdominal setae (fig. 63) are also in one series, few in number, rather 

 coarser than the thoracic and with the two wings narrow and about 

 equally developed. Thoracic uncini contain a single series of erect 

 crochets or hooked setae (fig. 65) with striated stems and the slightly 

 enlarged head thrown back, a large coarsely divided crest and stout 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



Ijlunt beak. Oa somite \' there are 13 in a torus, on somite A'lll 

 11. The abdominal tori contain uncini of the form shown in fig. 66, 

 with quadrate bases and heads of much the form of the thoracic crochets 

 but strongly recurved on the base. They are more numerous than the 

 thoracic crochets, somite XXI containing 17. 



The tube is nearly transparent, little tortuous and almost free from 

 sand. 



The single specimen comes from Station 4,274. .\litak Bay, Kailiak 

 Island, 35 to 41 fathoms, on a bottom of green mud and fine sand. 

 A smaller specimen was taken at Station 4,253, Stephens Passage. 131 

 to 188 fathoms, rocks and broken shells. 



Explanation of Plates X, XI anu XII. 



Pl.^te X. — Xotophyllum imbricatum — figs. 1-3. 



Fig. 1. — Dorsal \-iew of head of tj-pe. X 13. 



Fig. 2. — Outline of parapodium of middle region, seen from in front. 

 X 13. 



Fig. 3. — Distal end of a neuropodial seta of average length, x 600. 

 Eulalia quadrioculata — figs. 4-6. 



Fig. 4. — Dorsal view of anterior end of tj-pe. X 24. 



Fig. 5. — Posterior \iew of parapodium from somite XX^'. X 32. 



Fig. 6. — End of an a\erage seta from somite X. X 600. 

 Eulalia longicomuta — figs. 7 and S. 



Fig. 7. — Posterior -liew of parapodium from somite XXV of tj'pe. X 32. 



Fig. 8. — End of a seta from somit* X. X 600. Some of the setae have 

 even longer appendages. 

 Pionosyllis magiiifica — figs. 9-11. 



Fig. 9. — Dorsal \'iew of anterior end of type. X 32. 



Fig. 10. — .interior \-iew of parapodium of somite XXV. X 32. 



Fig. 11. — End of a seta from the middle of a fascicle on XXV'. X 600. 

 Stauronereis annulatus — figs. 12 and 13. 



Fig. 12. — -\nterior end of cot\-pe from aJiove. X 82. 



Fig. 13. — .\ parapodium from somite XXV, anterior \'iew. X 82. 

 Brada pilosa — figs. 14-17. 



Fig. 14. — -\ meditun-sized extended papilla from the dorsum of the middle 

 region, showing ring of adhering silt. X 113. 



Fig. 15. — -\n extended papiUa from the ventral surface. X 113. 



Fig. 16. — -\ portion of the middle of a notopodial seta from XV. X 250. 



Fig. 17. — Exposed portion of neuropodial seta from XV. x 98. a, 

 portion of middle of the same. X 2.50. 



Pl.\te XI. — Stauronereis annvlalus — figs. 18-22. 



Fig. 18. — Distal portion of jaw from below. X 130. 



Fig. 19. — Forked seta from middle of notopodial fascicle of somite XXV ; a, 



another of the same shglitly rotated and foreshortened. X 800. 

 Fig. 20. — Portion of the middle of a capillarv neuropodial seta from somite 



XXV. X 800. 

 Fig. 21. — -A. short -bladed compoimd neuropodial seta from the middle of 



the fascicle of XX^■. X 800. 

 Fig. 22. — .\ long-bladed compound seta from the same somite. X SOO. 

 Travisia pupa — fig. 23. 



Fig. 23. — .\ small portion from near the ch'stal end of a notopodial seta 

 from the middle region. X 800. 

 Xotomastns giganteus — figs. 24 and 25. 



Fig. 24. — -\ii entire crochet from the middle oi the body. X 333. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Fig. 25. — Profile vdew, and a face view, of the end of one of the same. 

 X 800. 

 Maldane similis — figs. 26-30. 



Fig. 26. — Slightl}' winged seta from II. X 333. 



Fig. 27. — Hispid capillar}' seta from somite XV. X 480. 



Fig. 28.— End of crochet'from somite III. X 480. 



Fig. 29. — Entire crochet from X. X 110. 



Fig. 30.— Distal end of the same. X 480. 

 Maldanelh robusta — figs. 31 and 32. 



Fig. 31. — Two entire crochets from somite XV. X 110. 



Fig. 32. — The end of one of the same. X 480. 

 Clymenella tentaculata — figs. 33-35. 



Fig. 33. — Middle crochet from somite II, entire. X 110. 



Fig. 34.— End of the same. X 480. 



Fig. 35. — End of a middle crochet from V. X 480. 

 Nicomache coronata — figs. 36-39. 



Fig. 36. — Small portion of a fiber seta from somite X. X 800. 



Fig. 37. — End of a crochet from somite V. X 480. 



Fig. 38. — An entire crochet from somite XV. X 110. 



Fig. 39.— End of the same. X 480. 

 Plate XII. — Lumbrichymene pacifica — figs. 40-42. 



Fig. 40. — End of a spine from II. X 98. 



Fig. 41. — .\ii entire crochet from somite X. X 83. 



Fig. 42.— End of the same. X 440. 

 Nicomache coronata — figs. 43 and 44. 



Fig. 43. — Small seta from somite X. X 360; a, small portion of the same. 

 X 600. 



Fig. 44. — Large seta from somite X. X 360. 

 Sabellaria cementarium — figs. 45-51. 



Fig. 45. — Tliree spines forming a middle segment of the operculum, 

 shown in profile in as nearly as possible their natural relations; 

 i inner, m middle, and o outer spines. X 32. 



Fig. 46. — A face view of the end of an outer spine. X 32. 



Fig. 47. — Middle notopodial seta from somite III. x 32. 



Fig. 48. — Portion of an ensheathed capillarv notopodial seta from somite 

 XX. X 440. 



Fig. 49. — Bipinniform neuropodial seta from II. X 98. 



Fig. .50. — A portion of the middle of the same. X 440. 



Fig. 51. — Middle abdominal imcinus. X 440. 

 Samylha bioculatn — figs. .52 and .53. 



Fig. 52. — Uncinus from somite X of type. X 600; 52, the same from 

 somite X of the cotype, somewhat foreshortened. X 600. 



Fig. 53. — Uncinus from somite XXV. X 600. 

 Amphicteis scaphobranchiata — figs. 54-61. 



Fig. 54. — Dorsal aspect of anterior end of type, with branchije cut away 

 and separated to show the prostomium. X 9. 



Fig. 55. — Ventral aspect of the same with the branchis in place. X 9. 



Fig. 56. — Distal portion of one of the anterior middle branchise. X 9. 



Fig. 57. — One of the abdominal parapodia. X 24. 



Fig. 58. — A paleolus from the middle of the fasciculus. X 83. 



Fig. 59. — A seta from somite X. X 250. 



Fig. 60. — Two forms of uncini from somite XII, the five-toothed one i 

 somewhat foreshortened. X 600. 



Fig. 61.— An uncinus from XXV. X 600. 

 Chone gi'acilis — figs. 62-66. 



Fig. 62. — A small bent seta from somite V. X 360. 



Fig. 63.— A winged seta from XXI. X 250. 



Fig. 64. — A spatulate and mucronate seta from VI. X 360. 



Fig. 65.— A crochet from VI. X 360. 



Fig. 66. — An uncinus from XXI. X 360. 



i 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



May 1. 

 'Mr. Arthvr Er'uix Broavn, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Fortj'-six persons present. 



The PubHcation Committee reported that a paper entitled "Addi- 

 tional New Species of Polychaeta from the North Pacific," by J. 

 Percy Moore, had been offered for publication (April 19, 1906). 



The deaths of Qarence H. Clark, a member, March 13, and of Lionel 

 S. Beale, a correspondent, ilarch 28, were announced. 



Dr. Benmajiix Sharp made a communication on pearls and pearl 

 fisheries. (No abstract.) 



May 1.5. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported that a paper entitled ' ' Records 

 and Descriptions of Non-Saltatorial Orthoptera from British Guiana," 

 by James A. G. Rehn, had been offered for pubhcation (May 7. 1906). 



The death of Carl \. Yischer, M.D., a member. May 14. was 

 announced . 



Hexry Leffiiax, il.D.. made a crmmunication on the newer views 

 regarding the nature of matter and their bearings on biologj*. (No- 

 abstract.) 



Mr. Walter F. Herzberg was elected a member. 



I he following were ordered to be printed: 



18 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



RECORDS AND DESCRIPTIONS OF NON-SALTATOEIAL ORTHOPTERA FROM 



BRITISH GUIANA. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHX. 



The records given in the following pages are all from a collection of 

 Orthoptera made in 1901 at Demerara, British Guiana, by R. J. Crew, 

 and for the privilege of studying which the author is indebted to Prof. 

 Lawrence Bruner. The series contained sixty-one specimens, repre- 

 senting thirty-four species, of wliich six are new. The tj'pes are in 

 Prof. Bruner's collection. 



BLATTID.iE. 

 ANAPLECTA Burmeister. 

 Anaplecta pulchella n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Demerara, British Guiana, 1901. (R. J. Crew.) 

 Closely allied to A. mexicana Saussure and dohrniana Saussure and 

 Zehntner, but differing from mexicana in the narrowly incised supra- 

 anal plate, the more angulate proximal portion of the appendicular 

 field of the wings, and in some details of the coloration. From dohr- 

 niana it differs in the wings, in the coloration and somewhat in the 

 shape, but agrees in the shape of the supra-anal plate. 



Size rather large (for the genus); form rather flattened and sul)- 

 elliptical; surface glabrous. Head about completelj' hidden under the 

 pronotum;- interspace between the eyes almost twice the depth of one 

 of the eyes; antemioe sparsely haired. Pronotum transversely ovate, 

 the cephalic margin regularly arcuate, caudal margin very slightly 

 arcuate, lateral margins rounded obtuse-angulate ; disk somewhat 

 deflected laterad. Tegmina exceeding the apex of the abdomen, sub- 

 lanceolate with the costal margin slightly arcuate except proximad 

 where it is rather strongly arcuate, sutural margin straight, apex acute; 

 basal field small, sub-coriaceous; anal field elongate sub-pyriform in 

 shape and containing four veins; costal veins thirteen in number, the 

 interspaces between the distal ones supplied vAth. short spiu-ious veins 

 which do not coalesce with the discoidal vein; median vein with four 

 rami of which the second (enumerating proximo-distad) is bifurcate. 

 Wings with the appendicular field of medium size, sub-rectangulate 

 with the margins rounded and the proximal angle decidedly obtuse : 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



clavate costal veins seven in number, the clavation being very large 

 and short, in fact decided inflations, non-clavate costals five in number, 

 distad of the clavate ones; medio-discoidal area with quadrate inter- 

 spaces; axillary vein with one principal branch diverging caudad, 

 which latter has two rami. Supra-anal plate transverse, rounded 

 with a slightly median emargination; subgenital plate not reaching to 

 tlie apex of the supra-anal plate, inflated and with the caudal section 

 compressed and narrowly divided, reminding one of the structure of 

 the valves of the Blattinse. Femora with their ventral margiiLS spined. 

 General color tawny above; head ochraceous with a jjattern of four 

 transverse and one short longitudinal occipital bars of seal brown, ej'^es 

 seal brown, antennae ochre yellow proximad and dull brownish distad. 

 Pronotum with the disk seal Ijrown and the lateral portions hyaline, 

 the disk broad caudad narrowing cephalad. Tegmina of the general 

 color with a spot in the anal field, a more prominent one at the iDase of 

 the discoidal field and another roiuided one near the middle of the 

 discoidal field raw umber. Wings very slightly washed with olive, 

 except the sections adjacent to the proximal portion of the costal 

 margin and the caudal section of the inserted angle of the appendicular 

 field, which are washed with ochre yellow. Ventral surface and limbs 

 pale clay color, margined, lined and touched with nuunmy brown. 



Mcaswrmcnis. 



I.cngth of body, 7.6 mm. 



Length of pronotium, 2.2 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 3 " 



Length of tegmen, 8 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 2..5 " 



The tj'pe is the only specimen seen. 



Anapleota fulgida Saussure. 



Two males, two females. 



Two of the above specimens belong to the form of the species with 

 the disk of the pronotum dark, both sexes being represented. The 

 tegmina in these dark specimens are somewhat darker than in the 

 other individuals. 



This species has been recorded from Tabasco, Mexico, Guatemala 

 and Piedras Negras, Costa Rica, this constituting the first South 

 American record. 



PSEUDOMOPS ServiUe. 

 Fseudomops orinicornis (Burmeister). 

 One male, one female. 

 \\liile these specimens would, by their imiform black antenna, fall 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



under luctuosa (Saussiire), the original description of crinicornis con- 

 tains nothing at variance with the material examined, no mention 

 being made of the antemise, while the median whitish spots on the 

 tegmina are distinctly specified. It would appear from the description 

 that the form described as ainicornis by Saussure and Zehntner' is 

 not the crinicornis of Burmeister. Whether lectuosa is distinct from 

 crinicornis is a matter which cannot be settled here, the two having 

 already been synonymized. 



The specimens studied show that the male is more uniformly coloreil 

 than the female, the pronotum being without a light caudal margin 

 and the median tegminal spots are absent, while the pale border of 

 the coxiE and ventral abdominal segments are much narrower than in 

 the female. 



PSEUDOPHYLLODEOMIA Brunner. 

 Pseudophyllodromia pavonacea Itehn. 



1903. PseudopJi i/Uodromia paronacea Rehn, Trans. Amer. Eut. Soc, XXIX, 

 p. 262. [Bartica, British Guiana.] 



One male. 



This specimen is inseparable from the tj-pe with which it has been 



compared. 



Pseudophyllodromia fasoiatella Saussure. 



Three males, one female. 



These specimens agree perfectly with a series of sixteen individuals 

 from Bartica, British Guiana. 



Pseudophyllodromia obscura Saussure. 



1874. Psendophiillodromia obscura Saussure, Mem. Soc. Phys. et d'Hist. 

 Nat. Geneve, XXIII, p. 98. [Brazil.] 



Four females. 



These specimens agree well with the description except that the 

 disk of the pronotum is red-brown overlaid with blackish instead of 

 maroon brown as described. 



Pseudophyllodromia prona n. sp. 



Types: o' and 9 ; Demerara, British Guiana. 1901. (R. J. Crew.) 

 Allied to P. peruana and lineolata Saussiue, and differing from the 

 former in the strongly lined interocular space, the color of the face and 

 the coloration of 'the tegmina, the pale portions of the latter being 

 small maculations and not whole areas. From lineolata it differs in 

 the maculation of the pronotum, the general color of the head and the 

 smaller tegminal markings. No other species of the genus appears 

 to be any way as closely related as the two mentioned above. 



• Biol. Cent.-Atner., Orth., I, p. 33. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



Size medium; form as in other species of the genus but slightly 

 broader. Head considerably exserted, the eyes rather prominent, 

 the interspace between them not as wide as the depth of the e}'e in 

 either sex; antennce filiform, very sparsely haired, in length very con- 

 siderabh' exceeding the length of the body. Pronotum transverse 

 sub-elliptical, cephalic margin with an extremely slight median angu- 

 lation; caudal margin distinctly but not greatly angulate, the margin 

 laterad of the angulation slightly emarginate; lateral margins arcuate 

 producing slightly lateral cephalic and caudal angles; surface of the 

 disk with two impressed areas, one on each side, extending caudo- 

 laterad from about the caudal fourth of the pronotum; lateral portion 

 of the pronotum considerably depressed. Tegmina with the venation 

 prominent ; costal margin arcuate on the proximal half, about straight 

 with a hardly perceptible emargination in the distal half, sutural 

 margin with two arcuatioiis, one of the anal field, the other of the 

 remainder of the tegmen; apex narrowly rounded; basal field narrow, 

 limited to about the proximal third ; anal field elongate-obovate, the 

 anal sulcus more impressed in the male than in the female; costal 

 veins thirteen to sixteen in mimber, rami of the median vein all longi- 

 tudinal. Supra-anal plate of the male shorter than the subgenital 

 plate, cerci over twice the length of the subgenital plate, moniliform, 

 tapering from the middle, subgenital plate rather short, transverse, the 

 apex narrow and shallowly emarginate. Supra-anal plate of the 

 female shorter than the subgenital plate, cerci similar to those of the 

 male, subgenital plate flat, the apical margin with a deep, very narrow 

 median incision. Femora spined. 



General colors clove brown and pale ochre yellow. Head with three 

 median, longitudinal, closely placed, parallel ochre yellow lines on the 

 interocular space, the face with five transverse maculations of the 

 same color, the dorsal one a complete fine line, the second, between 

 the antennae, a broadly V-shaped mark, the third a row of fom- sub- 

 circular maculations, the fourth, on the clypeal suture, a thick, nar- 

 rowed mesad line, the fifth a simple line across the chqjeus; eyes walnut 

 brown ; antennae strongly inf uscate except a brief ferruginous proximad 

 section. Pronotum with the disk clove brown, a narrow median line 

 and the lateral section pale ochre yellow, a spot on the caudal section 

 of the pale lateral sections clove brown; caudal margin narrowly pale. 

 Tegmina with the base color deep brownish, the basal field and inter- 

 spaces between the veins of the anal area and between the costal veins 

 and two spots in the proximal section of the discoidal field, one in the 

 very narrow proximal section and the other just distad of it, pale 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



ochre yellow. Limbs ochre yellow marked with clove brown,' the 

 caudal broadly lined dorsad, and the tibiae infuscate distad. 



Measurements. 



c? 9 



Length of body, 9.2 mm. 10 mm. 



Length of pronotimi, 3 " 3 



Greatest width of pronotuni, 3.9 " 4 " 



Length of tegmen, 9.6 " 10.5 



Greatest width of tegmen, 3 " 3 " 



The types are unique. 



ISCHNOPTERA Burmeister. 

 Ischnoptera nyotiboroides n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Demerara, British Guiana. 1901. (R. J. Crew.) 

 Belonging to the group containing /. azteca, tolteca, nana and parvula, 

 but differing from all in the larger size, and apparently from most of 

 them in the comparatively large intercalary area of the wings. 



Size rather large; form robust, general form and coloration super- 

 ficially reminding one of a Nyctibora; surface glabrous, but not with 

 a very high polish. Head not hidden by the pronotmn, the occipital 

 margin evenly arcuate, interspace between the eyes slightly wider 

 than the depth of one of the eyes ; mandibular palpi with the distal 

 joint elongate-elliptical when viewed dorsad, the ventral surface ex- 

 cavate for the enthe length. Pronotum of the shape usually found 

 in Ischnoptera, the cephalic margin sub-truncate, the caudal margin 

 sub-truncate with an extremely slight median angulation, lateral 

 margins slightly arcuate, the greatest width caudad ; lateral sections 

 somewhat depressed, the disk without depressions. Tegmina extend- 

 ing beyond the tip of the abdomen by about two-thirds the length of 

 the pronotum; costal margin evenly arcuate; sutural margin straight 

 except in the distal fom-th, where it is obliquely diverted toward the 

 apex which is in the general curve of the costal margin and rounded 

 acute-angulate in character; basal field not extensive; anal field 

 elongate-obovate, the apex blunt; veins of the anal area seven in num- 

 ber, the costal veins very numerous, discoidal field with the veins 

 distinctly longitudinal. Wing with the greatest width contained 

 slightly more than one and one-half times in the length; costal veins 

 about eleven in number excluding the branches of the mediastine vein, 

 the majority being distinctly but not at all greatly thickened near the 

 margin ; discoidal vein with a caudal ramus diverging near the middle 

 anterior ulnar vein with two complete and about two incomplete rami; 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPmA. 267 



intercalary area rather small but distinct, extending about a sixth the 

 way to the base of the wing, the apical margin of the area very gently 

 obtuse-angulate. Supra-anal plate transverse, somewhat produced 

 mesad and very narrowly emarginate ; cerci about ecjual to the sub- 

 genital plate in length, tapering in the distal half; subgenital plate 

 somewhat transverse, the distal margin arcuate, not emarginate and 

 not distinctly excavated for the cereal bases. Cephalic femora armed 

 on the ventro-cephalic margin, with about five large spines placed 

 mesad and a number of slightly smaller ones distributed between the 

 larger spines and the distal extremity; median and cephalic femora 

 with the ventral margins armed. 



General color vandyke brown, narrow lateral areas on the pronotum 

 and the basal areas of the tegmina ochre yellow. Head uniform except 

 for the antennse, the regions of their iasertion and the clypeus which 

 are dull ochraceous. Pronotum with the median area verj- dark, 

 almost seal brown, the lateral light areas being connected by a thread 

 of the same color, which extends around the cephalic margin. Teg- 

 mina almost ochraceous-rufous when viewed by reflected light, the 

 area of the right tegmen covered by the left being vandyke brown. 

 Wings washed with vandyke brown, the anterior field with the suf- 

 fusion very strong, the color being quite solid around the costal veins 

 Abdomen with the segments margined with seal brown, a broad bar 

 of the same color paralleling the lateral margins and suffusing the 

 subgenital of the preceding plate. Limbs ochraceous, the coxae each 

 with two transverse bars of seal brown connected along the lateral 

 sulcus of the coxa by a longitudinal bar of the same color. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 17.6 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.3 " 



Greatest width of pronotum 6 " 



Length of tegmen, 17 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 5.2 " 



The type is the only specimen seen by the author. 



BLATTELLA Cau.Iell. 

 Blattella minor (Brunner). 



1865. Ph[yUodromid\ minor Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 94. [Brazil.] 



One male. 



This specimen fits Brunner's description of this species, except that 

 the bars on the pronotum are fairly well separated, while Brumier saj'S 

 ' ' linea separanti tenuissima. ' ' 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Blattella inexpectata n. sp. 



Tj'jje: 9 ; Demerara, British Guiana. 1901. (R. J. Crew.) 



In general appearance this form resembles B. parana (Walker) from 

 Para, Ijut it is larger witli a richer coloration and with the caudal 

 margin of the pronotmn more arcuate. In some respects this species 

 resembles the vitrea-dilatata-pavida group but is more slender, bearing 

 a considerable superficial resemblance to Ischnoptera blattoides. 



Size medium; form moderately depressed, elongate-elliptical; surface 

 glabrous. Head almost entirely covered by the pronotum, narrowest 

 portion of the interspace between the eyes slightly less than the depth 

 of one of the eyes; antennae well separated at the bases, in length ex- 

 tending caudad to the distal extremity of the caudal coxis. Pronotum 

 moderately transverse, ovate, narrow, cephalic margin subtruncate, 

 caudal margin moderately arcuate with an extremely slight median 

 angulation, lateral margins arcuate with the greatest width very slightly 

 caudad of the middle ; lateral sections moderately depressed. Tegmina 

 slightly exceeding the apex of the abdomen, the greatest width con- 

 tained slightly more than three times in the length; costal margin 

 arcuate, the arcuation of the proximal third much greater than that of 

 the remainder of the margin; sutural margin nearly straight, very 

 oliliquely truncate in the apical fourth where it turns to meet the nar- 

 rowly rounded apex ; basal field narrow and covering slightly more than 

 a third of the length of the tegmen; anal field obovate in shape and 

 about equalling the basal field in length; costal veins about fourteen in 

 number, median vein with four rami, the distal of which has four 

 branches, some of which has the branching carried two stages farther ; 

 anal area with five veins. Wings with the costal veins numbering 

 about nine, the majority of the veins being distinctly incrassate distad ; 

 anterior ulnar vein bearing three complete jami. Supra-anal plate 

 trigonal with a rather large median emargination; cerci about equal 

 to the subgenital plate in length, fusiform; subgenital plate. moderately 

 inflated, somewhat tectate, apical margin shallowly emarginate, well 

 marked cereal sinuations present. Cephalic femora armeil on the 

 ventro-cephalic margin with foiu" large median and one large distal 

 spine, the intervening area filled with fine comb-like spines, iledian 

 and caudal femora with the ventral margins spined. 



General color ochraceous, becoming ochraceous-rufous on the disk 

 of the pronotum and the section of the tegmina which when in repose 

 cover the body. Eyes bistre; lateral sections of the pronotum and 

 costal section of the tegmina translucent ochre yellow, the section 

 of the left tegmen which in repose is covered by the right is verj' pale, 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



nearly buff in color. Wings strongly washed with ochraceous; limbs 

 pale ochraceous. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 13 mm. 



Length of pronotuin, 3.5 " 



CJreatest width of pronotum, 4.2 " 



Length of tegmen, 11.3 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 3.8 " 



The type is unique. 



NYCTIBOEA Burmeister. 



1838. Xijctibora Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom., II, Abth. II, pt. I, p. 501. 

 Included N. crassicornis, sericea, holosericea and latipennis Burm. 



Kirl)y has selected sericea as the type. 



Nyctibora tomentosa (Serville)? 



1839. Blatta tomentosa Ser\'ille, OrthoptSres, p. 86. [Surinam.] 

 Two males. 



These specimens show some few characters at variance with the 

 original description, but agree with the description of a female given 

 by Saussure." Walker's tenehrosa from Demerara appears to be a 

 rather different insect. 



PAEATEOPES Serville. 

 Paratropes subsericeus Saussure. 



186-1. Paratropes subsericeus .Saussure, Mem. I'Hist. Nat. Max., 3me Mem., 

 p. 63. [Surinam.] 



One female. 



This specimen is referred to subsericeus instead of elcgans Bur- 

 meister, of which the former has been considered a synonym. The 

 description of elegans, although very brief, does not fully fit the speci- 

 men in hand, while that of subsericeus fully describes the individual 

 examined. The author does not assert that the two are distinct 

 species, but Saussure's name represents the type examined and Bur- 

 meister's does not. 



EPILAMPRA Burmeister. 

 Epilampra abortivipennis Rehn. 



19U3. Epilampra abortivipenna Rehn, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXIX, p. 273. 

 [Bartica, British Guiana.] 



One female. 



The i.yY>e of this species was erroneously described as a female, a 

 re-examination showing it to be a male. 



' Miss. Scient. Mex., Orfh., p. 69. 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^Mav, 



The female is larger and bulkier than the male, but is otherwise very 

 similar. The supra-anal plate of the female is transverse, rounded and 

 with a moderately deep A'-shaped median emargination, the cerci are 

 about equal to the supra-anal plate in length, subequal in the proximal 

 half, tapering in the distal half, supra-anal plate large, moderately 

 inflated, cereal sinuations slight, the apical margin arcuate. 



Measurements of Female. 



Length of body, 26 mm. 



Length of jDronotum, 6.5 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 8.3 " 



Length of tegmen, 18.5 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 6.5 " 



Epilampra luoifuga Rehn. 



1903. Epilampra lucifuga Rehn, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXIX, p. 271 

 [Southern British Guiana.] 



Three males, one female. 



The female is slightly larger than the type specimen, but otheruuse 

 the series is perfectly typical of the species. 



The supra-anal plate of the male is rather produced, trigonal and 

 fissate mesad with the incision a mere slit to very near the apex; cerci 

 about half again the length of the subgenital plate, tapering in the distal 

 two-thirds; subgenital plate not reaching the caudal margin of the 

 supra-anal plate, trigonal, supplied with lateral styles nearly a third 

 the length of the cerci. 



Measurements of Male. 



Length of body, 22.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5.5 " 



Greatest wadth of pronotum • 6.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 21.2 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 6 " 



Epilampra maoulicollis (ServiUe). 



1839. Blatta maculicollis Serville, Orthopteres, p. 92. [Brazil.] 



One male, one female. 



The base color of these specimens is maize yellow, and between the 

 eyes the head bears dorsad a pair of tapering spots of mummy brown, 

 ventrad a blotch of seal brown, which has laterad short bars of the 

 same color extending ventrad between the antennae. The pronotum 

 is very finely sprinkled with, and the delicate pattern traced, in vandyke 

 brown, while the tegmina have the discoidal and anal areas very thicldy 

 flecked with large and small spots of burnt umber, the basal and costal 

 regions being comparatively clear with only small spots. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



Epilampra fasca Bruuner. 



186.5. Epilampra fusca Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 170. [Venezuela.]' 



One female. 



As far as can be determined from Brunner's description, which was 

 based on a mutilated specimen, this individual appears to represent 

 the species. 



The color pattern is rather regular and typical of the genus, the 

 maculations of the tegmina being luiiformly distributed but larger in 

 the discoidal field, while the whole insect has a strong suffusion of raw 

 sienna. The head bears two spots of seal brown between the eyes, 

 these spots being connected by a line of the same color which encloses 

 a quadrate area between the antennae. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 41.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 9.2 



Greatest width of pronotum, 11.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 38.5 



Greatest width of tegmen 12 " 



PERIPLANETA Burmeister. 

 Periplaneta australasiae (Fabricius). 



One male, two females. 



CHOEISONETTRA Brunner. 

 Chorisoneara gracilis (Saussure). 



1862. Blatta gracilis Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XIV, 

 \^ p. 167. [Brazil.] 



One damaged specimen. 



PYCNOSCELUS Scudder. 

 Pycnoscelus surinamensis (Linnaus). 



Two females. 



One individual is quite uniform blackish above, with the cephalic 

 margin of the pronotum laterad and the marginal field of the tegmina 

 ochraceous. 



PANCHLOEA Burmeister. 

 Panchlora viridis (Fabricius). 



1775. [Blatta] firidis Fabricius, Syst. Entom., p. 272. [America.] 



One male. 



This species has previously been recorded from Cayenne. 



Panchlora peruana Saussure. 



1S64, P[ancklora] Peruana Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 

 XVI, p. 342. [Peru.] 




272 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



One male, two females. 



The female individuals differ somewhat in size, but both appear 

 referable to this species. 



Measurements of Females. 



Length of body, 

 Length of pronotum. . 

 Greatest width of pronotum. 

 Length of tegmen. . 



Greatest width of tegmen. 



20.4 mm. 



o.. 

 6 

 19.5 

 5.2 



2L5 mm. 

 6 " 

 7.3 " 



22.6 " 



HOLOCOMPSA Burmeister. 

 Holooompsa nitidula (Fabricius). 



1781. [Blcitfa] 7iitidula Fabricius, Spec. Ins., I, p. 3-15. [Surinam.] 



Two females. 



These specimens have a dark brown patch on the caudal section of 

 the disk, and the caudal margin of the pronotum is narrowly suffused 

 with the same color. This pattern of coloration is evidently present 

 in the type of Fabricius as he states: "Thorax ferrugineus, nitidus 

 macula baseos nigra." The golden hairs which are present on the 

 lighter sections of the pronotum are also distributed over the brown 

 area. 



Holocompsa cyanea Burmeister. 



Two males. 



This species has been recorded from Brazil by Brunner. 



BLABERTJS Serville. 

 Blabems postions Erichson. 



1848. Blabera postica Erichson, in Schomburgk's Reisen Brit. Guiana, III. 

 p. 580. [Britisli Guiana.] 



One female. 



This specimen is the fii'st of a number of individuals of this section 

 of the genus examined by the author, which appears to fit Erichson's 

 verj- poor description. The pronotal maculation is confluent laterad 

 with the blackish caudal margin. This character appears to be what 

 Erichson refers to in "Der Halsschild mit spitzer gerundeten Seiten, 

 auf clem Riieken mit einigen kleinen, unbestiminten schwarzen Flecken, 

 dagegen der Hinterrand breit schwarz gesamnt. " The figure of B. 

 thoracicus given by Saussure and Zehntner represents very nearly the 

 same thing, but a specimen from Costa Rica which I had considered 

 thoracicus ^ has these lateral bars lacking. Kirby's sj-nonymizing of 



' Proc. Acad. Xnt. Sci. Phila., 190.5, p. 792. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



the two species would appear, from the evidence in hand, to be correct, 

 The author's B. biolleyi * differs from posticus in the paler coloration, 

 the more numerous and finer veins of the anal area of the tegmen and 

 the separate and distinctly outlined maculations of the pronotum. 



MANTID^. 



ACONTISTA Saussure. 

 Aoontista perspioua (Fabricius). 



1787. [Mantis] perspicua Fabricius, Mant. Insect.,' I, p. 230. [Cayenne.] 



One male, one female. 



This species is known only from the Guianas. 

 Angela guianensis n. sp. 



Types: c? and 9 ; Demarara, British Guiana. 1901. (R.J. Crew.) 



Closely allied to ^4. quinquemaculata (Stoll) from Cayenne, but dif- 

 fering in the coloration of the wings in both sexes, particularly in the 

 absence of yellow in the male, and also in the short tegmina and wings 

 of the female. From brachyptera (Stoll) it can be separated by the 

 unspined margins of the caudal section of the pronotum and the tuber- 

 culate abdomen, as well as the color of the wings of the male. The 

 coloration of the wings of fulgida and trifasciata readily separates the 

 new form from these species. 



Size rather large; form as usual in the genus, male bacilliform with 

 elongate tegmina and wings, female elongate with quite short tegmina 

 and wings; surface smooth but not polished. 



c? . Head strongly transverse, occipitaljoutline straight except for a 

 pair of slight lateral depressions; eyes prominent, ovoid in outline 

 when viewed laterad, rounded and projecting slightly cephalad of the 

 general level of the face but nearly plane caudad; ocelli large, elliptical, 

 placed in a low, broad triangle; facial scutellum arcuate transverse, 

 the arcuation dorsad; antennae as long as the head and pronotum 

 together, moderately serrulate. Pronotum with the coxal dilation 

 slight, subecjual cephalad and caudad of the same; lateral margins of 

 the collar distinctly dentate, of the shaft slightly dentate cephalad, 

 smooth caudad; median carina distinct throughout the length of the 

 pronotum but quite delicate on the collar, the shaft compressed trigonal 

 in section. Tegmina slightly longer than the head and pronotum, 

 when in repose reaching nearly to the tip of the third abdominal seg- 

 ment; margins subparallel, apex rounded acute-angulate, the sutural 

 margin being considerably trimmed toward the apex; costal field 

 moderately expanded proximad and very gradually narrowing distad ;. 



* Ibid., p. 792. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



ulnar vein with tliree almost parallel rami, stigma distinct. Wings 

 exceeding the tegmina by about a third the length of the pronotiim, 

 slightl}- longer than twice the width; costal margin nearly straight, 

 apex rather narrowly rounded. Cephalic coxiP slightly less than half 

 the length of pronotum, not armed; cephalic femora about five-eighths 

 the length of the pronotum, the ventro-caudal margin bearing four 

 large and one small distal spines, the ventro-cephalic margin armed 

 with two grades of spines, the larger size numbering six and the smaller 

 eight, the smaller being placed one each between the larger spines, 

 except that distad of the distal large spine two small ones are present 

 and between the fii'st and second distal spines three are present, dis- 

 coidal spines four in number; cephalic tibite (exclusive of terminal 

 claw) less than a third the femoral length, the cephalic margin with 

 sixteen spines increasing in size distad, caudal margin with five spines; 

 tarsi about equal to the tibiae in length, iledian and caudal limbs 

 very slender but not greatly elongate, the caudal femora not quite 

 reaching the middle of the third abdominal segment. 



General color Prout's brown. Tegmina hyaline washed narrowly 

 along the sutural margin, (distad of the dividing vein) and very broadly 

 along the costal margin with Prout's brown, the greater portion of all 

 the longitudinal vein-s being marked with numerous fine linear seal 

 brown touches. Wings with proximal half hyaline, the apex of the 

 anterior field yellowish coriaceous, the remainder vandj-ke brown with 

 very strong violet reflections, this coloration also extending nearly to 

 the base as a varying line along the mediastine vein, the caudal section 

 of the broad transverse bar extending clear to the margin, and broken 

 only by less infuscate areas immediately surrounding the radiate veins 

 and the clear pattern of the traasverse veins. 



9 . Head much as in the male, facial scutellum slightly less arcuate ; 

 antennae very short, hardly exceeding the length of the collar of the 

 pronotum, filiform. Pronotum with the collar nearly a fifth the length 

 of the whole pronotum, coxal dilation slight; collar slightly tapering 

 cephalad, the cephalic angle narrowly rounded and with an apparent 

 elevation caused by a marked depression of the collar immediatelj- cau- 

 dad; lateral margins of the collar dentate, shaft with the margins un- 

 armed; median carina distinct on the collar and on the cephalic and 

 caudal sections of the shaft, collar trigonal in cross section, shaft rounded 

 dorsad. Tegmina about a fifth the length of the pronotum, reaching in 

 repose to about the middle of the fii-st abdominal segment, margins very 

 slightly approximate distad; apex broadly rounded, stigma distinct. 

 Wings in repose extending beyond the tegmina by not quite a third 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



the length of the latter, the length but slightly greater than the 

 length of the tegmen. Abdomen with the apex broad, tlepressed, 

 the three terminal segments with very distinct median longitudinal 

 marginal folds; supra-anal plate about as long as broad, the distal 

 portion rounded; cerci broad, lamellate and truncate as usual in the 

 genus; subgenital plate strongly compressed, rostrate, fU verted ven- 

 trad out of the general abdominal plane. Cephalic coxae slightly 

 less than half the length of the pronotum, slightly armed, distal section 

 expanded and compressed, being abruptly trigonal in section, while 

 the proximal three-foiu-ths is transverse in section; cephalic femora 

 slightly more than half the length of the pronotum, the margins armed 

 as in tlie male except that the cephalic margin has one or two 

 additional spines of the second order; tibia and tarsi as in the male. 

 Median and caudal limbs slender but not greatly elongate. 



General color tawny-olive finely washed, spotted and sprinkled with 

 Prout's brown; eyes marked with seal brown. Pronotum with the 

 two colors showing very distinctly in a pattern which is pardaline in 

 character, the shaft with its cephalic fifth inclined toward l:)istre. 

 Tegmina tawny-olive in the proximal half, becoming brick red in the 

 distal half, the costal section Prout's brown, some of the rami of the 

 ulnar vein and the dividing vein with short fine linear touches of bistre, 

 the' folded proximal section blackish purple. Wings with the anterior 

 field broccoli brown, yellowish along the costal margin and rich brick 

 red in the distal third ; posterior field with the base color purplish brown 

 with a very strong purplish-blue sheen, bearing two irregular maculations 

 of lemon yellow, limited to about the cephalic half of the field and each 

 bearing distad an area of equal size of the clear base color of the area, the 

 whole wing except these areas and the semi-coriaceous red section of 

 the anterior field having all the transverse veins white or yellowish- 

 white. Abdomen of the general color; limbs of the general color with 

 the pardaline appearance distinctly marked on the median and caudal 

 limbs. 



Measurements. 



& 



Length of body, 67.5 + mm. 



Length of pronotum, 25 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, ..... 2.3 " 



Length of tegmen, 28.5 " 



Length of wing, 34 " 



Length of cephalic femur, 14.8 " 



The tj'pes'are the only specimens seen by the author. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



PHOTINA Burmeister. 

 1838. Photina Burmeister, Handb. d. Ent., II, Abth. II, pt. I, p. 531. 

 Type, by elimination, P. vitrea Burm. 



Photina vitrea Burmeister. 



1838. M[antis] (Photina) vitrea Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom., II, Abtli 

 II, pt. I, p. 532. [Brazil.] 



One female. 



PAEAMUSONIA Rehn. 

 Paramusonia conspersa (Saussure). 



1870. Th[cspif<] conspersa Saussure, Mitth. Schw. Ent. GeseU., Ill, p. 238. 

 [Soutli America.] 



One male, one female. 



Apparently this is the first record of the species with exact data. 

 This form can be separated from the allied P. inftmiata (Serville) by 

 the finely denticulate lateral margins of the pronotum. 



MIOPTEEYX Saussure. 

 Miopteryx grenadensis Saussure. 



Two males. 



CALLIBIA St&l. 



1877. Callibia Stal, Bihang till K. Svenslva Vet. Akad. Handl., I^^, No. 10,^ 

 pp. 79, 85. 



Tj^e. — Harpax pictipennis Serville = ilfan<ts diana Stoll. 



Callibia diana (Stoll). 



1813. [Mantis] Diana StoU, Natuur. Aibeeld. Bescb. Spooken, pp. 74, 78, pi. 

 XXV, fig. 100. ["East Indies."] 



One male. 



This species has been recorded from Cayenne. 



OXYOPS Saussure. 



1869. Oxyops Saussure, Mitth. Scliw. Ent. GeseU., Ill, pp. 56, 66. 



Type. — 0. rubicinula (Stoll). 



Oxyops rubiounda (Stoll). 



1813. [Mantis] Rubicunda Stoll, Natuur. Aibeeld. Besch. Spooken, pp. t3, 

 79, pi. XXV, fig. 96. 



One male. 



This specimen has the internal face of the cephalic coxse unicolor as 

 in one of the males examined bj' Saussure. 



PAKASTAGMATOPTERA Saussure. 

 Parastagmatoptera tessellata Saussure and Zehntner. 



1894. Parastagmatoptera tessellnta Saussure and Zelmtner, Biol. Cent.- 

 Amer., Ortli., I, p. 188. [Cayenne.] 



One male. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



PHASMID^. 



CEEOYS Serv-ille. 



1839. Ceroys Serville, Orthopteres, p. 262. 



Type. — C. perfoliatus (Gray). 

 Ceroys lituus n. sp. 



Tj-pe: 9 ; Demerara, British Guiana. 1901. (R. J. Crew.) 



Not closely allied to any previously known species of the genus, dif- 

 fering in the absence of spines and in the lobation of the median and 

 caudal femora. This species may not be true Ceroys, but it does not 

 belong to any of the present allied genera. 



Size median; form moderately robust; surface smooth, not polished, 

 imarmed. Head rather long, subecjual caudad of the eyes, occiput with 

 a faint median longitudinal impressed line and several ver}- weak ones 

 laterad; eyes subglobose, moderate!}' prominent; antennae filiform, 

 about ecjual to the head and thorax in length, the proximal joint de- 

 pressed. Pronotum nearly half again as long as broad, the lateral mar- 

 gins somewhat incurved, cephahc margin moderately concave, caudal 

 margin arcuate, transverse depression distinct, arcuate caudad, median 

 longitudinal depression very faint and incomplete. Mesonotum five and 

 a half times the length of the pronotum, a distinct dorsal line present 

 but no carina. ^letanotum (including median segment) about five- 

 eighths the length of the mesonotum, the median segment ver}^ dis- 

 tinctly longer than broad and exceeding the length of the remainder of 

 the metanotum. Abdomen distinctly exceeding the remainder of the 

 body in length; four proximal joints simple, longitudinal and very 

 slightly increasing in length distad ; fifth segment expanded meso- 

 caudad, in length about equal to the foiu-th segment; sixth segment 

 simple, slightly shorter than the first proximal segment; seventh seg- 

 ment two-thirds the length of the sixth, somewhat expanded caudad ; 

 eighth segment slightly shorter than the seventh; ninth segment shorter 

 than the eighth, compressed, carinate dorsad, narrowly emarginate 

 caudad; supra-anal plate with the angidate tip alone visible; cerci 

 compressed, tapering, blunt, the length about two-thirds that of the 

 ninth dorsal segment; subgenital opercule boat-shaped, carinate in the 

 distal half, lanceolate, acute, not exceeding the tips of the cerci. Limbs 

 multicarinate, robust. Cephalic femora about as long as the mesono- 

 tum, compressed, basal flexui-e very marked and abrupt, the two 

 prominent dorsal and single ventral carina lamellato-carinate; cephalic 

 tibia; about ecjual to the femora in length and with three lamellate 

 carinse; tarsi with the proximal joint slightly longer than the remaining 

 joints, lledian femora slightly shorter than the metanotum, the two 

 19 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



ventral lamellate cariiiije each with a prominent proximal and distal 

 rounded foliaceous lolje, the dorso-cephalic carina also with a low 

 proximal lobe; median tiliise about as long as the femora, the ventral 

 carinae lamellate, but no lobes present; median tarsi with the proximal 

 joint about equal to the remaining joints. Caudal femora as long as 

 the proximal two and a half abdominal segments, in structure similar 

 to the median but with the dorsal lobe even smaller; caudal tibiae 

 slightly longer than the femora, in structure similar to the median tibise 

 but slightly slenderer; caudal tarsi with the proximal joint distinctly 

 but not greatly longer than the remaining joints. 



General color Prout's brown obscurely marked on the head and limbs 

 with bistre, the femoral lobes and extremities of the median and caudal 

 tibiae decidedly bistre; antennae wood brown sprinkled with the general 

 color. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 101 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.5 " 



Length of mesonotiun, 24.5 " 



Length of metanotum (including median segment), ... 16 " 



Length of cephalic femur, 22.5 " 



Length of median femur, 14 " 



Length of caudal femm', 17.3 " 



The type is unique. 



OLCYPHIDES Griffini. 

 Oloyphides fasciatus (Gray). 



1835. P[hasma] fasciatum Gray, Synopsis Phasm., p. 2-i. [Brazil.] 



One female (sex ?). 

 ■ This individual is broken, but I presume it is a female. The original 

 description, while very brief, sums up the chief diagnostic characters 

 of the species. 




1906.] NATURAL SCTENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



DESCRIPTIONS OF FIVE NEW SPECIES OF OETHOPTEEA FROM TONKIN. 

 BY JAME.S A. G. EEHX. 

 PHASMIDu^. 

 Phryganistria grandis n. sp. 



Type: c?; Tonkin, Indo-China. [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Allied to P. sarmentosa Westwood from Sylhet, but differing in the 

 larger .size, the greater number of mediimi-sized spines on the ventral 

 margins of the median and caudal femora, and the presence of a strong 

 distal spine on each of the same margins, as well as the proportionately 

 slenderer abdomen. 



Size very large; form very slender; surface glabrous. Head about 

 equal to the pronotum in length, somewhat narrowed caudad, and with 

 the caudal section of the occiput with foiu- longitudinal subparaUel 

 impressed lines; eyes rather prominent, globose; oceUi absent; antennae 

 when extended caudad reaching nearly to the caudal margin of the 

 second abdominal segment, fost antennal joint moderately depressed. 

 Pronotum distinctly longer than broad; cephalic margin slightly 

 arcuate-emarginate, caudal margin subtruncate; transverse depression 

 slightly bent caudad in the middle, a faint trace of a longitudinal de- 

 pression in the cephaUc section, none in the caudal section. Jlesono- 

 timi but little shorter than the metanotum, median segment and first 

 segment of the abdomen nearly seven times the length of the pronotum, 

 subequal except in the caudal foiu-th where it is slightly and gradually 

 expanded. Metanotum (including median segment) slightly more 

 than two-thirds the length of the mesonotum ; median segment slightly 

 less than a third the length of the remainder of the metanotum; 

 cephaUc half subequal, evenly expanding in the caudal half. Abdo- 

 men exceeding the head and thoracic segments in length by more 

 than the length of the head, as a whole subequal in width, the 

 slight enlargement of the segments at their articulation with con- 

 tiguous segments giving the abdomen the appearance of a sec- 

 tion of bamboo; first segment very sUghtly"; longer than the head 

 and pronotimi together, second and third subequal and slightly longer 

 than the first, foiu-th and fifth subequal and slightly longer than the 

 second and third, sixth segment two-thirds the length of the fifth, 




280 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



seventh segment about half the 

 length of the sixth, compressed 

 and deep, eighth segment com- 

 pressed, as deep as and slightly 

 shorter than the seventh seg- 

 ment, ninth segment with its 

 extreme length about equal 

 to the seventh and eighth 

 imited, strongly compressed, tec- 

 tate and carinate dorsad, bear- 

 ing two lateral digitiform pro- 

 cesses which enclose a deep 

 A^-shaped emargination, the pro- 

 cesses being rounded distad and 

 bearing a number of short re- 

 curved spines on their inner 

 faces ; cerci slender, simple, 

 strongly curved distad; sub- 

 genital opercule extending to 

 the apex of the eighth dorsal 

 segment, not produced, the dis- 

 tal margin straight, the dorsal 

 margin rounded-angulate, the 

 ventro-caudal angle blunt-rec- 

 tangulate. Cephalic femora 

 slightly longer than the head, 

 pro- and mesonotum, somewhat 

 compressed, multicarinate, basal 

 flexure short but very distinct, 

 dorso-cephalic margin with a 

 number (14 to 18) of rather 

 irregularly distributed spines ; 

 cephalic tibise considerably ex- 

 ceeding the femora in length, 

 as long as the six pi'oximal ab- 

 dominal segments in length, 

 very slender and with the mar- 

 gins unarmed ; cephalic metatarsi 

 distinctly longer than the re- 

 maining segments of the tarsi 

 united ; arolia present. Median femora in length equal to the 



Fig. 1. — Phryganistria grandis n. sp. 

 Dorsal view of male type. (One- 

 half natural size.) 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



mesonotum and half of the pronotum, rather robust, stronglj' 

 carinate, the dorsal carinse with a few short spines on each but the 

 caudal with a greater number than the cepha- 

 lic, ventral margins with a series of strong 

 spines, 12 to 14 in number, in addition to which 

 is placed distad a very strong aciite spine, the 

 genicular lobes are spiniform and the ventral trh'gml'drsn%^°ll'- 

 face bears a median longitudinal series of 6 or 7 terai ^•ie■n• of the apex 

 fine spines; median tibiae very shghtly longer (Xatural size.)" ™ ^ ° " 

 than the femora, slightly ciu^ved proximad, 



all the margins spined but the ventrals with a much greater 

 number than the dorsals; metatarsi about equal to the remain- 

 ing tarsal joints, all more robust than in the cephalic Umbs. Caudal 

 femora reaching nearly to the apex of the fom'th abdominal segment, 

 dorsal margins with very few spines, ventral margins armed as the 

 median femora, the large distal spine and genicular lobes similar in 

 form, and the lateral series numbering 16 to 17 spines, the median 

 ventral series 9 to 10 in number; caudal tibiae similar to the median in 

 structure but longer; caudal metatarsi distinctly longer than the 

 remaining tarsal joints. 



Cienerla color ferruginous, pale on the head and distad on the abdo- 

 men, the greater portion of the mesothorax and the cephalic section of 

 the metathorax wood brown, the former washed ■nith malachite green. 

 Antennae blackish brown. Yentro-lateral margins of the median and 

 caudal femora dull oil green; spines tipped with black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 198 mm. 



Length of head 7.5 " 



Length of pronotum, 7 " 



Length of mesonotum, 46 " 



Length of metanotum (including median segment), . . . 34.5 " 



Length of cephalic femur 63.8 " 



Length of median femur, 48.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 58 " 



Length of caudal tibia 70.5 " 



The t3-pe only has been examined. 



TBTTIGONID^. 

 Chondrodera' maxima n. sp. 



Type: ? ; Tonkin, Indo-China?^ [A. N. S. Phila.] 



' It appears from the literature on tliis genus that Brunner misinterpreted the 

 shape of the mesostemum and metastenium. and should have placed this genus, 

 in'his re\-ision of the Pseudophylhn^, under 4 instead of 4' of tlie Phyllomimi. 



■ Some doubt is attaclied to tliis locaUtv. 




282 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



Allied to C. notatipes and C. subvitrea Karsch from West Africa, Init 

 differing in the greater size, the deeper lateral lobes of the pronotum, 

 the smaller eye, the differently shaped tegmen and the lesser number of 

 transverse veins in the same. From C. borneensis Brumier it is readily 

 separated by the presence of a longitudinal spurious vein in the anal 

 field of the tegmen, and in the strongly spined and but slightly ciliate 

 femora. 



Size moderately large; form generally compressed. Head broad, 

 somewhat flattened cephalad; occiput not elevated, straight, rounded 



Fig. 3. — Chondrodera nuijcima n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X I5.) 



transverselj^ ; fastigium produced, extending slightly beyond the 

 antennal scrobes, acute, moderately sulcate distad; eyes rather small, 

 exserted and quite prominent, subglobose; antennce with the margins 

 of the scrobes touching mesad, first joint large, subcylindrical, joints 

 beyond the second poorly defined, in an incomplete condition extending 

 to the distal third of the tegmen. Pronotum some- 

 what saddle-shaped, the lateral lobes moderately 

 flaring ventrad, surface with a number of blunt tu- 

 bercles ; cephalic margin obtuse-angulate with the 

 immediate angle truncate, caudal margin arcuate 

 with a slight median emargination; longitudinal 

 median sulcus distinct, precurrent, bearing in its de- 

 pression a blunt median carina on the prozona 

 (proper) and metazona, on the latter becoming more 

 conspicuous caudad by the shallower character of 

 the sulcus; median sulcus flanked through nearly its entire length by a 

 pair of series of rather irregularly placed tubercles; sulci separating the 

 prozona, mesozona and metazona very distinct and deep, the meso- 



FiG. 4. — Chon- 

 drodera maxima n. 

 sp. Dorsal view of 

 female pronotum. 



(X 2.) 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



metazonal one particularly heavj-; lateral portions of the caudal mar- 

 gins of the disk somewhat ele^-ated ; lateral lobes slightly longer than 

 deep, caudal margin with a distinct but shallow elytral sinus, ventral 

 margin sinuate obtuse-angulate, the margin supplied with low tubercles 

 which are the terminations of low subobsolete ridges radiating from a 

 ]5oint on the ventral section of the lateral lobes. Prosternum unarmed. 

 Mesosternum distinctly but not greatly transverse, the foramina large 

 and well separated, iletasternum strongly transverse, the cephalic 

 margin slightly broader than the mesosternum, caudal section regularl}' 

 nan'owed, the foramina nearer the caudal margin, transverse and con- 

 nected b}' a rather broad sulcus. Tegmen rather coriaceous in texture, 

 the greatest width (excluding the anal field) contained slightly more 

 than three times in the length; dorsal outline when viewed laterally 

 (excluding the horizontal anal field) nearly straight, costal margin 

 sUghtly arcuate cephalad, strongly arcuate distad; apex dorsad and 

 rather narrowly rounded, costal field with a distinct rounded proximal 

 lobe; costal field with the mediastine vein short, oblique, anterior 

 radial vein sending nine principal oblique rami to the costal margin, 

 the most of which are bifurcate in the distal portion of their length; 

 radial ramus issuing distinctly but not greatly proximatl of the middle 

 of the tegmen, the area between this and the posterior radial vein 

 with six principal transverse veins, which enclose areas roughly quad- 

 rate in shape; anterior ulnar vein undulate, reaching to the apex of the 

 tegmen, the area between the radial ramus and this vein having five 

 principal transverse veins ; area between the two idnar veins with seven 

 principal transverse veins; anal area narrow but continued to very 

 near the apex of the tegmen, and bearing in addition to one principal 

 precmrent though erratic longitudinal vein several others of similar 

 character in the proximal section, short transverse veins numerous. 

 Wings in repose reaching almost to the tips of the tegmina. Abdomen 

 moderately compressed ; supra-anal plate slightly longitudinal, rounded, 

 the apex emarginate and a shallow longitudinal median depression is 

 present on the proximal half, ciliate; ovipositor about twice as long 

 as the pronotum, heavy, hardly curved, the dorsal margin nearly 

 straight and with a slight basal emargination, ventral margin regularly 

 arcuate, apex acute, dorsal margin and short distal section of the ven- 

 tral margin finely serrate; subgenital plate short, transverse trigonal, 

 the apex with a A'-shaped emargination. Cephalic femora about as 

 long as the head and pronotum, carinate, the ventral margins with four 

 to six blunt spines; cephalic tibite slightly longer than the femora, 

 bulliB perforate and expanded on both sides, dorsal carinte with one 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



short spine on the caudal, ventral carinse both with a number (6 to 7) 

 of short spines; tarsi with the third joint very broad. Median femora 

 about as long as the cephalic, more compressed, deeper, ventro-cephalic 

 margin strongly carinate and armed with five short spines, ventro- 

 caudal margin armed with a number of very small spines, the margin 

 not strongly carinate like the ventro-cephalic; median tibiae slightly 

 longer than the femora, compressed, carinate, ventral margins armed 

 with seven small spines. Caudal femora not quite half the length of 

 the tegmen, moderately compressed, and considerably inflated in the 

 proximal half, cephalic face bearing two longitudinal depressions, ven- 

 tro-cephalic margin lamellate and armed with ten or eleven flattened 

 spines, which are small proximad and increase to a considerable size 

 tlistad; caudal tibiae about equal to the femora in length, compressed, 

 carinate, the dorso-cephalic margin armed with foiu" short spines, the 

 dorso-caudal with twelve to fourteen larger lamellate spines, the ventral 

 margins with about seven rather small spines on each margin. 



General color very dull canary yellow., becoming saffron j^ellow on 

 the limbs. Head touched with saffron yellow; eyes walnut brown; 

 antennse with widely placed annuli of walnut brown. Pronotum with 

 the median longitudinal area faintly washed with lilac. Tegmina with 

 the principal transverse veins bordered and touched with patches and 

 lines of wine purple, the proximal portion of the sutural margin faintly 

 washed with the same color. Ovipositor clay-color, the distal half and 

 the entire ventral margin seal brown. Limbs with the spines either 

 wholly or in jjart lilack. 



Measurements. 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), 43 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 8.5 " 



Greatest width (ventral) of pronotum, 10 " 



Length of tegmen, 61 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 20 " 



Length of caudal femur, 27.5 " 



Length of ovipositor, 19.5 " 



The type only has been examined. 



Anabropsis^ tonkinensis n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Than-Moi, Tonkin, June-July. (Friihstorfer.) [A. N. S. 

 PhUa.] 



Allied to A. frater (Brunner),* supposed to be from India, but differ- 



^ Schcenobates of authors, cf. Relm, Canad. Entom., XXXIII, p. 272, 19U1. 

 * Verhandl. K. K. Zool.-bot. Gesell. Wien, XXXVIII, p. 275. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



285 



ing in the smaller size and the fewer spines on the margins of the caudal 

 tibiae, ten instead of fom-teen in number. Brunner's species is very 

 briefly described and based on a male, but the specimen in hand 

 differs in the lesser length of the body and of the caudal femora and 

 tibise, as well as the fewer tibial spines. 



Size rather large (compared with American species of the genus) ; 

 form somewhat compressed ; sm'face entirely glabrous, polished. Head 

 short and broad, occiput rounding toward the fastigium and bearing 

 a very slight median longitudinal sulcus, which is continued nearly to 



Fig. 5. — Ayiabropsis tonkinensis n. sp. Lateral view of type. (About X 2.) 



the extremity of the compressed fastigium, which latter is separatetl 

 from the vertex by a Ijroad and shallow depression; frontal fastigium 

 touching the fastigium of the vertex; paired ocelli large, placed on the 

 lateral faces of the fastigium, median ocellus placed closer to the apex 

 of the facial fastigium than to the ch-peal margin; eyes ovoid, flattened 

 cephalad, slightly prominent ; antennal scrobes little elevated, proximal 

 and second antennal joints subcylindrical, the second considerably 

 smaller than the first, remainder of the antennoe slender, moniliform. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lav, 



about twice the length of the body, the third joint shglitly longer than 

 the proximal and second joint together. ^landibles, cl3-peus and lab- 

 rum large and produced as is usual in the genus; palpi large, with the 

 &st and second joints subequal, the third slightly longer than the others 

 and distinctly longer than the labrum. Pronotum hardl}- archetl 

 longitudinally, distinctly arched transversely ; cephalic margin truncate, 

 caudal margin arcuato-truncate; lateral lobes very greatly longer than 

 deep, the greatest depth in the cephalic section; no median carina pre- 

 sent, but an extremely fine median sulcus extends the whole length of 

 the pronotum: distinct transverse sulci two in number, one near the 

 cephalic margin, the other slightly caudad of the middle and extend- 

 ing cephalo-laterad of the axis of the pronotum and forming oblique 

 broad depressed areas on the lateral lobes. Tegmina xery minute, 

 not half as long as the exposed lateral portion of mesonotum, pad-like. 

 Mesonotum, metanotum and abdominal segments provided dorsad 

 with a slight but distinct median carina, laterad the distal section of 

 each segment is provided with a munber of short welt-like ridges. 

 Supra-anal plate small, trigonal, depressed with the margins elevated; 

 ovipositor rather short and weak, slightlj' arcuate, tapering, apex 

 moderateh' acute, margins unarmed. Prosternum with a pair of very 

 long spines, nearly erect, the tips needle-like; mesosternum with a 

 pair of similar sjjines, which, however, are shorter and broader than 

 those on the prosternum ; metasternum with a pair of blunt triangidar 

 lobes. Cephalic femora moderately compressed, slightly longer than 

 the pronotum, margins and genicular lobes unarmed; cephalic tibiae 

 slightly longer than the femora, dorsal margiiLS each with a distal spine 

 and the cephalic with one median one, ventral margins each with five 

 spines, the proximo-caudal small, as is also the proximo-dorsal; 

 cephalic tarsi very slightly more than half the length of the tibiae, 

 arolia absent. Median femora equal to the cephalic in length and 

 unarmed ; meilian tibite verj' slightly longer than the femora, armed on 

 the dorso-cephalic margin with three spines and on the dorso-caudal 

 with four spines, the ventral margins each armed with five spines. 

 Caudal femora slightly shorter than the length of the body, strongly 

 inflated in the proximal two-thirds, the distal third subequal, pagina 

 sculpturetl with a regular series of clear-cut oblique lines, caudo- 

 ventral margin with five to seven short spines on the distal section; 

 caudal tibiffi about as long as the femora, dorsal margins each armed 

 with ten fixed spines, ventral margins armed ^\ith three short mobile 

 spines on the cephalic margin and one on the caudal margin, while 

 three pairs of distal spurs are present, the proximal being very large 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



on each margin and spiniform; caudal tarsi with the distal joint about 

 equal to the proximal in length. 



General color dorsad seal brown, ventrad including the limbs pale 

 orange-ochraceous. Head solid color dorsad, ventrad of the dorsal 

 color laid over cream-buff, the facial fastigium clear cream-buff ; mouth 

 parts, except clypeus, of the ventral color; eyes broccoh brown; anten- 

 na of the ventral color except for the three proximal segments which 

 maculate or suffuse with seal brown. Pronotum slightly sprinkled 

 with buffy laterad. Abdomen with the welt-like ridges buffy, as are 

 also the styles and ovipositor. Cephalic and median femora strongly 

 blotched and suffused with seal brown distad ; median and caudal tibiae 

 with proximal section washed with seal brown. Caudal femora with 

 the pagina sprinkled with seal brown, the carina immediately ventrad 

 of the pagina strongly blotched with the same in the proximal two- 

 thirtls and the genicular lobes and arches of the same color; caudal 

 tibiffi with the genicular region touched with seal brown. All spines 

 and spurs narrowly tipped with seal brown. 



Measurements. 



Lengthof body (exclusive of ovipositor), 28.5 mm. 



Length of ant ennffi, circa 62 



Lengthof pronotum, 9.5 



Length of caudal femur 25 



Length of ovipositor, 8.5 



The U-pe alone has been examined. 

 Diestrammena longipes n. sp. 



Type: cJ' ; Than-Moi, Tonkin. June-July. (H. Friihstorfer.) [A. 

 N. S. Phila.] 



Allied to D. unicolor Brunner ^ from Siberia, China and Tenasserim, 

 but differing in the very much longer limbs and the very marked colora- 

 tion. 



Size rather large ; body in life probably covered in the greater part 

 with golden scales, of which traces remain. Head short, broad ami 

 deep; occiput slightly rounded into the fastigium, which is short, rather 

 broad, deeply sulcate and bifurcate; frontal fastigium low, separated 

 from the fastigium of the vertex by a considerable space ; ocelli small ; 

 eye ovate, flattened cephalad, moderately prominent, considerably 

 shorter than the infra-ocular portion of the gense; antennal scrobes not 

 elevated, proximal joint short subcylindrical, second joint smaller, sub- 

 cyhndrical, remainder moniliform, very nearly five and one-half times 



' Verhandl K. K. Zool.-bot. Gesell. Wi'en, XXXVIII, p. 299. 




288 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



the length of the body: mandibles, clypeus and labrum moderately 

 prolonged; palpi long and slender, the proximal joint quite short, the 

 second and third longer and subequal, the distal slender, gradually 

 enlarging, over half again as large as the second. Pronotum arched 

 t^ans^■ersely and with faint indications of lateral shoulders; cephalic 

 margin truncate, caudal margin subtruncate; lateral lobes slightly 

 longer than deep, the cephalic section of the margin obliciue, mesad 



Fig. 6. — Diestranunena longipes n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 2.) 



with a rounded obtuse angle and caudad with the same, the caudal mar- 

 gin itself nearly straight. Mesonotima with the caudal margin obtuse- 

 angulate ; metanotum very slightly obtuse-angulate. Abdomen slightly 

 tectate; cerci stj'liform, slightly shorter than the pronotum. Cephalic 

 femora very slightly longer than the head and thoracic segments, 

 armed on the ventro-cephalic margin with three spines and on the 




1906.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



cephalic genicular lobe with one; cephalic tibise equal to the femora 

 in length, unarmed dorsad except for a short distal spine on the 

 caudal margin, ventral margins each armed with two mobile spines, 

 the distal ventral margin with one short median spine, spurs two in 

 number, comparatively short, subequal; cephalic tarsi compressed, 

 two-thirds the length of the tibite, metatarsi slightly longer than the 

 remaining joints, distal joint much slenderer than the others, arolia 

 absent, ^ledian femora very slightly shorter than the head and 

 thoracic segments, ventro-cephalic margin with a single spine in the 

 distal section, ventro-caudal margin unarmed, both genicular lobes 

 with large mobile spines, that of the cephalic lobe slightly shorter than 

 the other; median tibiae somewhat longer than the femora, the ventral 

 margin with four paired spines and one median one on the distal mar- 

 gin, spurs rather short, the caudal the longer and that not more than 

 a third the length of the metatarsus; tarsi similar to the cephalic. 

 Caudal femora elongate, nearly half again as long as the body, consid- 

 erably inflated in the proximal half, slender in the distal half with a 

 slight genicular enlargement, ventro-cephalic face of the proximal 

 inflated portion with several deep longitudinal impressions, the cephalic 

 ventral carina much lower than the caudal, which is moderately 

 lamellate, cephalic armed with ten spines in the distal section, the 

 caudal armed with sixteen spines in the distal two-thirds, genicular 

 lobes each with a very short mesad spine; caudal tibiie slightly longer 

 than the femora compressed, ventral margins maarmed, dorso-cepha- 

 lic margin with thirty-two fixed spines, dorso-caudal with thirty, 

 spurs in three pairs, the dorsal much the larger and with the caudal 

 one slightly longer than the cephalic and but little shorter than the 

 metatarsus; caudal tarsi similar to the others in structure but slightly 

 larger and more robust. 



General color mars brown, the caudal margins of the thoracic and 

 abdominal segments rather irregularly and broadly marked with seal 

 brown, the median sections of the segments, however, being clear or 

 nearly clear mars brown, while the mesonotum and metanotum bear 

 irregular touches of sulphur yellow. Face ventrad of the eyes and of 

 the antenniE touched with vandyke brown; eyes walnut brown; anten- 

 nae seal brown, the proximal joints paler and maculate with seal brown, 

 joints beyond the second with two characters of annulations of lemon 

 yellow, a broad annulation and a number of narrow annulations be- 

 tween each broad one, both characters of annulations becoming distant 

 distad. Limbs with the base color straw yellow with a faint touch of 

 lavender on the proximal portions of the femora, all strongly annulate 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



with clove brown, the number of annuli on the caudal limbs being four 

 principal ones on the femur, five on the til)ia and two on the tarsus. 



Measuranents. 



Length of body, 21.5 mm. 



Length of antenna circa 118 " 



Length of distal joint of the palpus, 5.2 " 



Length of caudal femur, 27.5 " 



Length of caudal tibia, 29 " 



The tj^e is unique. 

 Siestrammena palpata n. sp. 



Tj-pe: (5"; Than-Moi, Tonkin. .June-July. (H. Frlihstorfer.) [A. 

 N. S. Phila.] 



Allied to D. ^lnicoIor Brunner and D. longipcs described above, but 

 differing from D. iinkolor in tlie much longer limbs as is the case with 

 D. longipes, from which palpata differs in the very long palpi and the 

 different coloration. 



Size rather large; form somewhat compressed. Head with the occi- 

 put descending to the fastigium which is short and deeply, but very 

 narrowly, divided ; facial fastigium separated from the fastigium of the 

 vertex by a considerable space ; eye elongate subreniform ; antennce over 

 five times the length of the bod}', the proximal joint large, subcylin- 

 drical, second joint small and very short, remaining joints monUiform; 

 palpi very slender, elongate, first and second joints short, third and 

 fourth cjuite long, subecpial, fifth very long, over haU" again as long as 

 the fourth. Pronotum rounded transversely; cephalic margin sub- 

 truncate, caudal margin slightly projecting, roiuidlv obtuse-angulate, 

 no lateral angles present; lateral lobes slightlj- longer than deep, the 

 ventral margin bluntly obtuse-angulate. Mesonotum distinctly obtuse- 

 angulate caudad ; metanotum with the caudal margin very slighth' 

 arcuate. Abdomen compressed. Cephalic femora somewhat longer 

 than the head and thorax, slender, very slightly expanded proximad, 

 but otherwise subequal, ventral margins unarmed, cephalic genicular 

 lobe with a very short fixed spine, caudal genicular lobe with a long 

 mobile spine; cephalic tibiiE very slightly longer than the femora, 

 unanned dorsad, ventral margins with four paired spines and one 

 median one on the distal border, principal sjnu's considerablj^ shorter 

 than the large genicular spine on the cephalic femora; cephalic tarsi 

 considerably more than half the length of the tibiae, compressed, the 

 metatarsus slightly more than half the tarsal length, arolia absent, 

 ^ledian femora distinctly but not greatly shorter than the cephalic 

 femora, similar in structure but with a large mobile spine on the cepha. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



291 



lie genicular lobe, in length, however, shorter than that on the caudal 

 lobe; median femora and tibite as in the cephalic limbs but shorter. 

 Caudal femora elongate, slightly more than twice the length of the 

 median, considerably inflated in the proximal half, cephalic ventral 

 margin iniarmed, caudal margin with a number of spines, closely 



Fig. 7. — Diestrammena palpata n. sp. Lateral \'iew of tj^e. (X 2.) 



placed proximad, sparsely distributed distad; caudal tibiae slightly 

 longer than the femora, dorsal margins with thirty to thirty-four fixed 

 spines, dorsal spiu-s very large, the caudal as long as the metatarsus ; 

 metatarsi about as long as the remaining tarsal joint. 



General color burnt umber, meso-dorsal region suffused with clove 

 brown. Eyes vandyke brown; antennae annulate much as D. longipes, 

 but the color is duller, the larger annulations narrower and the smaller 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



ones more numerous; palpi dark except the distal joint which is pale. 

 Cephalic and median limbs cream-buff, proximal three-foiu'ths of the 

 femora obscurely maculate with mummy brown, a clear light pregen- 

 icular annulus present, genicular region of the femora and tibiae seal 

 brown, remainder of tibice of the pale ground color. Caudal femora 

 cream buff overlaid and mottled with biu'nt umber proximad and clove 

 brown distad ; caudal tibite, except for a certain amount of scattered 

 proximal clove brown maculation, cream buff, spines tipped with dark 

 brown, extreme distal portion of the tibijE and caudal margins of the 

 tarsal joints washed with seal brown. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 21 mm. 



Length of antenna circa 120 " 



Length of distal joint of the palpus, ■. 8 " 



Length of caudal femur, 29 " 



Length of caudal tibia, 30.5 " 



The type is the only specimen examined. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



FUKTHER KNOWLEDGE OF SOME HETEROGNATHOUS FISHES. PART I. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



In this paper I have attempted to arrange systematically the Heter- 

 ognathi contained in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. This group is largely made up of collections formed 

 by John Hauxwell, James Orton and H. H. Smith. Nearly all of 

 Cope's typical specimens, besides a number of comparatively rare or 

 obscurely defined species, are represented. Owing to the increase in 

 knowledge of the vast fresh-water ichthj-ic fauna of South America, it 

 is believed that further detailed information concerning rare, nominal 

 or species only known from the original specimens will be welcomed. 



ERTTHRINID^. 

 Hoplias jialabaricns (Blnch). 



Macrodon trahira Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI 1S69-70 



(August 19, 1870), p. .566. Pebas. John Hauxwell. Cope, Proc. 



Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (January 16, 1S72), p. 257. .Amb-saaeu River. 



John Hauxwell, Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, Phila., XVII, 1877-78 



(May 17, 1S7S), p. 694. Pennian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Macrodon tareira Cope, I.e., XXXIII, 1S94 (Januarj- 5), p. 84. Brazilian 

 province of Rio Grande do Sul. H. H. Smith. 



\ series of 28 examples represented by those in the Hauxwell and 

 Orton collections from the Ambyiacu and Peruvian Amazons, and the 

 H. H. Smith collection from Rio Grande do Sul, also others from Bahia, 

 Rio das Vehlas and Siu-inam. They show : Head 2f to 3J; depth 3f to 

 .5| ; D. II or iii, 10 i to 12 1, mostly 111, and only rarely 10 1 or 12 1 ; A. ii or 

 III, 8 I or 9 I, most always 8 i, or only rarelj' 9 1 ; scales 36 to 42 in lateral 

 line to base of caudal, with 2 to 4 more on latter ; 6 scales obliquely back 

 from origin of dorsal to lateral line, onlj' rarelj' 5; between lateral line 

 and base of ventral 5 or 6 scales, usually 5; 1.5 to 19 scales before 

 dorsal; snout 4 to 4* in head, measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 

 4i to 8; maxillary If to 2^; interorbital 3h to 4i; total length of 

 body 2^ to 12^ inches. 



OPHIOCEPHALOPS subgen. nov. 

 Type Erythrinus umtoeniatus Agassiz. 



Dorsal fin rounded or posterior rays not elevated. 

 CO(pi's, serpent; «."ccaA^, head; («^'', appearance.) 

 20 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Erythrinus nnitaeniatus Agassiz. 



Eri/lhrinus salmoncus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Sop. Phila., XVII, 1877-78 

 (May 17, 1878), p. 694. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Head 3 to 3f ; depth 3| to 4f ; D. ii, 8 i ; A. ii, 7 i to ii, 9 i, usually 



S I and rarely 7 i or 9 i; scales 30 to 32 in lateral line to base of caudal, 



and 3 to 6 more on latter; 4 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral 



line, rarely 5; 4 scales between lateral line and ventral; 13 or 14 scale.s 



before dorsal, usually 14; snout 3f to 4 in head, measured from tip of 



upper jaw; eye 5 to 7f ; maxillary 2 to 2^; interorbital space 2i to 3; 



total length 4 to 12 inches. In all 7 examples from the upper Amazons, 



Surinam and Paramaribo. 



Subgenus ERYTHRINUS Soopoli. 



Dorsal fin angular or pointed, and some of posterior rays elevated. 



Erythrinus erythrinns (Schneider). 



Erijlhrinus brevicanda Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70 



(Augii.stl9, 1870),p. 566. Pebas. Jolin Hauxwell. 

 Erythrinus brevicauda Cope, ^c, XVII, 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 694. 



Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Head 3 to 3i; depth 3f to 5; D. ii, 7 i to 9 i, rarely 7 or 8; A. in. 

 8 i; scales 29 to 32 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 3 or 4 more on 

 latter; 4 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral line obliquely back; 

 3 or 4 scales between lateral line and ventral; 14 to 16 scales before 

 dorsal; snout 3J to 4 in head, measiu'ed from tip of upper jaw; eye 4j 

 to 6f ; interorbital space 2^ to 2f ; total length of body 3 to 9 J inches. 

 In all 10 examples from the Orton and Hauxwell collections. One 

 example shows the depressed ventral reaching a trifle beyond origin of 

 anal. 



Pyrrhulina laeta (Cope). Fig. 1. 



Holotaxis latus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1871 (January 16, 1872), 

 p. 257. Tj-pe No. 8,029, A. N. S. P. Ambpacu River. John Hauxwell. 



As it is in such poor preservation I am forced to omit a number of 



notes of value. It may be said however beyond dispute that there are 



two distinct or well developed bands of teeth in the upper jaw. The 



accompanying figure will portray such information as is possible to 



make out from the sjjecimen with the assistance of the original account. 



COFEINA gen. nov. 

 Tj'pe Pyrrhulina argyrops Cope. 



Teeth in upper jaw uniserial, otherwise close to Pyrrhulina. 

 (Named for the late Prof. Edward Drinker Cope, who studied most 

 of the fishes included in this paper.) 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



295 





Fig. 1. — Pyrrhulina Iwta (Cope). 



Copeina argyrops (Cope). Fig. 2. 



Pyrrhulina argi/rops Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. See. Phila., X'N'II. 1877-78 

 (May 17, 1878), p. 694. Nos. 21,441 (type) and 21,442, A. N. S. P., 

 cotypes. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. of 1877. 



About 11? scales (according to pockets) before dorsal; width of 



head If ia its length; interorbital space 2^. Edges of body rounded. 



Head broadly depressed or flattened above and becoming somewhat 



constricted below. Snout broadly flattened above. Surface or man- 



^<^;T7n7?^V^<' 



^- 1 



Fig. 2. — Copeina argyrops (Cope). 




296 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



dible well convex. Teeth conic, a little large, uniserial in upper jaw 

 and biserial in lower, though none on maxillary or on roof of mouth. 

 Tongue a little slender or elongate, tip rounded and free. Gill- 

 opening extending forward about opposite front rim of pupil. Rakers 

 7+10?, lanceolate, a little shorter than filaments which are f of orbit. 

 Isthmus rather narrowly triangular. Each scale with a number of 

 radiating strise. Color in alcohol plain brown. Upper portion of 

 dorsal more or less blackish with a narrow pale margin. Iris rather 

 brassy. Length 2 y^ inches (caudal a little damaged). 



CHARACID^. 

 CURIMATIN.E. 

 Curimatella meyeri (Steindachner). Fig. 3. 



Head 3f ; depth about 4; D. iv, 9; A. ii, 8; scales (according to 

 pockets) about 38? in lateral line to base of caudal, and about 5? more 

 on latter; between origin of dorsal and lateral line, obliquely forward, 

 about 5?, antl about same number between lateral line and origin of 

 ventral; about 16? scales before dorsal; snout 3^ in head; eye 3|; 





.^^uMm, 



Fig. 3. — Curimatella meyeri (Steindachner). 



width of mouth 4; maxillary 4f ; interorbital space 2i; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 3. Apparently no rakers. Caudal at present with 

 few scales and these mostly fallen. The color in alcohol, probably due 

 to preservation, is faded brown. This may also account for the ab- 

 sence of spots on the scales of the back. One example (with damaged 

 caudal), 3f inches. Peru. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. 1873. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



Curimatella alburnus (MuUer and Troschel). 



Head 3f ; depth 2+; D. iii, 9, i; A. iii, 9, i; scales .33 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal, and 2 or 3 more on latter; 6 scales obliquely back from 

 origin of dorsal to lateral line; 5 scales between lateral line and origin 

 of ventral; 5 scales between lateral line and origin of anal; snout 3j 

 in head; eye 3^; maxillary 3; interorbital space 2^; pectoral 1^; ventral 

 l^ny. Caudal peduncle deep, compressed, and length about f of least 

 depth. Upper profile convex from occiput to dorsal, and keel only a little 

 distinct just before doreal, also an indistinct keel on each side. Post- 

 dorsal region rounded, with a median and a lateral keel on each side, 

 all indistinct. Same also continued behind adipose dorsal. Post- 

 ventral region wath distinct median keel and a rather indistinct keel 

 on each side converging toward anal. Snout convex, both sm-face 

 and profile, and upper profile of head straight. Rakers small or 

 minute weak filaments (mostly damaged). Origin of dorsal falling 

 in vertical about midway between tip of snout and posterior basal 

 margin of adipose fin. Third simple dorsal ray longest, longer than 

 head, or about ^ of head and trunk. First branched anal ray appa- 

 rently longest , If in head. Pectoral reaching f of space to ventral. 

 ^'entral extending f of space to anal. Length (with damaged cautlal) 

 5i inches. A single example, most likely from Dr. Hering's collection, 

 and taken in Surinam?, rather than "Curimatus spec, indet." Cope, 

 Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phiki., XI, 1869-70 (August 19, 1870), p. 566, 

 from Pebas, Hauxwell Coll. 



CYPHOCHARAX subgen. nov. 

 Type Curimatus spilurus Gunther. 



Back well elevated, or liunched, anteriorly. Scales large, in even 

 longitudinal series which slope a little from head posteriorly. 



(A Ocroj, gibbous or hunched; /a/)af , an old name used by Gronow 

 for the typical genus of this family and first introduced by Scopoli.) 



Cnrimata spilura (Gunther). Fig. 4. 



Curimatus spilurus Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Pliila., X^'II, 1877-78 

 (Mav 17, 1878), p. 684. Peruvian .Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. of 

 1873. 



Interorbital space 2f in head. Predorsal region trenchant, not 

 grooved, and anterior dorsal profile of body steep. GUI-rakers not 

 evident and scales not serrate. The example figm-ed most likely from 

 Xauta. Also three others which do not vary except that the hump, or 

 elevated back, seems to be a little less in height than in the smaller 

 ones. This agrees faii-ly well with Dr. Giinther's account, though the 




298 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



head would differ as it is said to be 3f to 4 in the body without caudal. 

 The pectoral is apparently shorter in my examples. 



The closely related forms, Curimata spibiropsis (Eigenmann and 

 Eigenmann) and Curimata dorsale (Eigenmann and Eigenmann), do 

 not appear to differ markedly. In fact it is not difficult to discover 

 most of the characters assigned to each by Dr. and Mrs. Eigenmann in 







'mi 



."*> 



Fig. -i. — Curimata spilura (Gunther). 



the examples before me. Under Curimatus spilurus these writers 

 state that the predorsal region is depressed or grooved till near the 

 dorsal fin. This I am unable to determine. 



STEINDACHNERINA subgen. nov. 

 Type Curimatus trachystethus Cope. 



This group comprises those species of Curimata with the postventral 

 region rounded, or with an obtuse median keel, and the back normal 

 or not hunched as in Cyphocharax. Scales in most species finely ser- 

 rate. 



(Dedicated to Dr. Franz Steindachner, of the Royal Academy of 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



299 



Natural Sciences of Meniia, as a slight recognition of his thoroughly 

 excellent contributions to Ichthyology.) 



Curimata traohystethus (Cope). Fig. 5. 



Curimatus trachystethus Cope, Proc. .Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Pliila., XMII, 1S77-7S 

 (May 17, 1878), p. 684. No. 21,470, A. N. S. P., type. Peru\-ian .Amazon, 

 probably from Pebas. Prof. J. Orton. CoU. of 1877. 



Width of head 1* in its length ; width of mouth 3f ; interorbital space 

 2f. Body well compressed. Head convexly restricted below and 

 broad above. Snout broad and obtuse in profile when viewed from 

 above, ilouth broad. Jaws and lips thin, ilandibidar angle very 

 obtuse and with a little protuberance at sjTnphysis fitting in a depres- 

 sion in front of upper jaw. Tongue a little narrow, median, rather 



Fig. 5. — Curimata trachystethiis (Cope). 



far back, and httle free in front. Interorbital space broadlj- convex 

 and more or less flattened medianly. GUI-opening large and extending 

 fon\-ard till about opposite posterior margin of pupU. No rakers. 

 Filaments a trifle more than half of orbit. Isthmus rather broadly 

 triangular. A short pointed scah* flap in axil of pectoral. Predorsal 

 region with a median rounded keel. Postdorsal region roimded. Pre- 

 ventral region flattened. Postventral region with a median obtuse 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J Vine, 



keel and a similar one on each side. Color at present in alcohol i)ale 

 greenish-brown, due most likely to preservative. Back a little darker. 

 Fins all plain, except dorsal, which is marked with a large blackish 

 blotch nearer bases of median rays. Iris deep brown. Length 4J 

 inches (caudal damaged). 



Cope's statements that "the depth at the front of the dorsal fin is 

 one-third the length of the caudal" and ' ' the length of the head is one- 

 foiu'th the same" are impossible. He evidently intended to refer to 

 the body. 



Curimata gilbert Quoy and Gaimard. 



Curimatus gilbertii Cope, Proc. Anier. Philos. Soc. Phila., XXXIII, 1894 

 (January 5), p. 93. Many examples from the Brazilian pro\-ince of Rio 

 Grande do SiJ, probably at Sao Joao. H. H. Smith Coll. 



All have the dark caudal spot evident, and in the larger ones it is very 

 distinct. In some small ones it is preceded laterally and medianly. 

 by an irregular series of small blackish spots of uneven size. In others 

 this is connected by a dusky streak, fading out anteriorly and enclosing 

 the lateral line. In fact the species shows considerable color variation. 

 Also a large uniformly colored example from Campos, Brazil. The 

 proportions, etc., of all the examples range as follows: Head 3 to 3|; 

 depth 2J to 3 ; D. Ill, 9 ; A. iii, 7, i ; scales 33 to 38 in lateral line to base 

 of caudal and 3 or 4 continued on the latter; 6 or 7 scales, usuallj- 6, 

 obliquely back from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 6 scales obliquely 

 between lateral line and origin of ventral; 14 to 16 scales before dorsal; 

 total length of specimens ranging from 2^ to S^ inches. 



PELTAPLEURA subgen. nov. 

 Type Salnio cyprinoides Linnseus. 



Scales on costal region enlarged, much larger than elsewhere on body, 

 and converging posteriorly so as to form even series with the others. 



{Ili/.TTj^ a small light shield, here used with reference to the scales; 

 rMupdj the side or rib.) 



Curimata cyprinoides (Linnaeus). Fig. 6. 



Curimatus cyprinoides Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p 

 258. Ambjiacu River, Equador. John HauxwcU. 



Of 11 examples 4 before me have the squamation fairlj' perfect. 

 They show the scales in the lateral line ranging from 45 to 48 when 




1906. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



301 



counted to base of caudal, and 4 or 5 more on the latter. The figure 

 is based on the largest of these. 





-CiiriiiKiln cij prinoidea (Lin:ia>us) 



Subgenus CURIMATA Cloquet. 



Postventral region trenchant. Scales small, 51 to 70 in a lateral 

 count, and forming more or less even longitudinal series. 



In view of the uncertainty of identification of Salmo edentidus Bloch, 

 which is more Uke the example 1 shall identify as Curimata schom- 

 hurgkii, I have allowed this subgenus to fall with it and related species. 

 Further, its identification with Salmo cyprinoidcs Linuieus may be 

 questioned, and if any credit is attached to Bloch's figure the scales are 

 a little large. 



Curimata oopei sp. nov. Fig. 7. 



Head 3; depth 2^; D. in, 9; A. iii, 9, i; P. ii, 13; V. ii, 9; scales 50? 

 in lateral line to base of caudal (squamation injured), and about 4? 

 more on latter; about 15 scales between origin of dorsal obliquely 

 down to lateral line ; about 9 series of scales between lateral line verti- 

 cally to origin of ventral ; about 9 scales in a vertical series between 

 lateral line and origin of anal; about 28 scales before dorsal; width of 

 head 2^ in its length; depth of head 2J; snout 3J; eye 3J; width of 

 mouth 3J; interorbital space 2i; base of dorsal 2; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 2§; base of anal 2; ventral (damaged) ly'-j-. 




302 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Body well compressed, greatest depth at origin of dorsal, and back 

 well elevated. Upper anterior profile gibbous or convex. Edge of 

 back rounded. Caudal peduncle compressed, its length about f in 

 least depth. 



Head rather constricted below, upper smiace convex and with a 

 nearly straight profile to occiput. Nuchal region convex. Head of 

 rather even width. Snout broad and obtuse, especially when viewed 



Fig. 7. — Curimata copei Fowler. 



from above, and a little produced beyond tip of mandible. Eye large. 

 its center near first f in length of head, and a trifle longer than deep. 

 Adipose eyelids a httle broad. Mouth broad, a little inferior, and 

 sjTnphysis with a little knob fitting in a depression in upper jaw. 

 jMandibular angle broadly obtuse. Tongue thick, rounded, hardly 

 free in front, and not broad. Nostrils adjoining, superior, a little 

 nearer front of eye than tip of snout and posterior larger. Anterior 

 nostril circular, and with a cutaneous margin. Interorbital space 

 broad, a little elevated, and flattened medianly. Postorbital about 

 equal to preorbital or about size of pupil. First infraorbital a little 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ZO'A 



more than half length of second which is long. Preopercle with several 

 distinct flutings. Gill-flap rather narrow. Opercle smooth. 



Gill-opening extending forward not quite opposite to posterior 

 margin of pupil. Upper cleft of gill-opening extending forward a 

 little more than at a point equal to last f in length of head. About 

 15 + 28? small short rudinientaiy filamentous-like rakers on first arch. 

 Gill-filaments long, longest about 2 in horizontal orbital diameter. 

 Isthmus nearly forming an equilateral triangle. 



Scales moderately small, adherent, and forming longitudinal series 

 parallel with lateral line. Scales below lateral line, or those on breast 

 and abdominal region, a little larger than others. Scales passing over 

 ventral carina. No narrow median naked strip from occiput to dorsal, 

 scales passing over. Head naked. Scales on chest a little smaller 

 than those on breast. No scales on dorsals, pectorals and ventrals. 

 Base of caudal with scales, and along basal region of anal. Base of 

 ventral inside with a broad flat scaly flap, and another flap, but narrow 

 and at present equal to about f of fin (damaged), placed in axil. No 

 flap in pectoral axilla. Lateral line of simple tubes, continuous, 

 slightly decurved at fii-st and then straight to caudal. 



Dorsal inserted about midway in vertical between tip of snout and 

 posterior basal margin of adipose fin. Dorsal high, first branched rays 

 evidently highest and others graduated down. Adipose fin well de- 

 veloped and its base about last f in space between dorsal and base of 

 caudal. Anal evidently low and its origin a little nearer base of caudal, 

 in vertical, than origin of ventral. Caudal emarginate (damaged), and 

 rays well branched. Pectoral small and low. Ventral inserted about 

 opposite base of second branched dorsal ray, and reaching about j of 

 distance to anal (damaged), ^'ent close in front of anal. 



Color in alcohol brassy-brown, back with a dull olivaceous tinge. 

 Fins all brownish. Iris deep brown. 



Length 4f inches. 



Type, No. 8,201, A. N. S. P. Surinam. Smithsonian Institution. 



One example, the type. This was long ago considered a new species 

 by Cope. It appears to be closely related to Curimata schomburgkii 

 (Giinther), but differs at once in the deep body, the upper profile of 

 which is more gibbous anteriorly. 



(Named for Prof. Edward D. Cope.) 



Curimata schomburgkii (Gunther). Fig. 8. 



Body well compressed. Edge of back rounded. Caudal peduncle 

 compressed. Head compressed, a little constricted inferiorly, upper 

 surface convex. Nuchal region also convex. Head of rather even 




304 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



width. Snout broad, blunt when viewed above. Mouth broad and 

 symphysis with a Ivnob fitting in a cavity of upper jaw. Mandibular 

 angle broadly obtuse. Tongue small, as usual rather far back, flattened , 

 a little thick and only edges free. Interorbital space broad and a little 



Fig. 8. — Curimata schoinhurgkii (Gtinther). 



elevated convexly, not especially flattened metlianly. Gill-opening 

 forward till not quite opposite posterior margin of pupil. Upper cleft 

 of gill-opening extending forward | in length of head. Gill-rakers 

 10? -I- 32?, small short rudimentary-like weak filaments. Gill-filaments 

 about 2 in eye. Isthmus a little broad and triangular. Scales more 

 or less adherent, passing over ventral keel and ridge before dorsal. 

 Scales on chest a little smaller than those on breast. Base of ventral 

 inside with a broad scaly flap. \'ent close to anal. Color in alcohol 

 brassy-brown. Length 4f inches (caudal damaged). 



Two examples from Surinam, larger described above. Dr. Hering. 

 The smaller example is in better preservation. It shows: Head 21; 

 depth 2f ; D. iii, 8; A. iii, 9, i ; scales 54 in lateral line to base of caudal, 

 and 4 more on latter; snout 3* in head; eye 3|; pectoral If; ventral 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



If; upper caudal lobe about 1. Rakers distinct. First branched ray 

 of dorsal longest, and reaching well bej-ond others, when fin is depressed, 

 or to origin of adipose fin. Adipose fin long, its length along posterior 

 margin but little less than length of its base. Anterior anal rays 

 elevated. Caudal long, deeply forked, and each lobe well pointed. 

 Pectoral long, pointed, and reaching origin of ventral. Ventral long 

 and pointed, and reaching origin of anal. 



Semitapicis laticeps (Valenciennes). 



Curimatuii altamazonicus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Pliila., XVII, 

 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 684. Xos. 21,118 (t\-pe) to 21,120, A. X. S. 

 P., cotypes. Peru\-ian .\mazon. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. of 1873. 



Head 3i; depth 2J; D. ii, 9, i; A. in, 12, i; P. i, 16; V. ii, 8; scales 

 about 88 in lateral line to base of caudal (squamation injured), and 6 

 more on latter; width of head 2^ in its length; depth of head If; snout 

 3J; width of mouth 3J; interorbital space 2J; base of dorsal 2^ ; base 

 of anal 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 3; pectoral (damaged) 2; 

 ventral (damaged) 1*. No gill-rakers, and filaments Ii in eye. Color 

 in alcohol brown, paler on lower surface or below lateral line. Head 

 dark on top, like back, and sides and under portion-s pale. Fins all 

 brownish. Eye dusky. Length (caudal damaged) 7f inches. Type. 



The other cotypes show: Head 3 and 3i^ ; depth 2f; D. ii, 10, i; 

 A. II, 13, i; total length of body 6j and 7^ inches respectively (caudals 

 damaged). 



Psectrogaster ciliatus (Miiller and Troschel). 



Curimatus riUiloides Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 2.58. 



Amb%iacu River, Equador. John Hauxwell. (\ot of Kner.) 

 Curimalus cyprinoides Cope, I.e., p. 291. Between the mouth of the Rio 



XegTO and the Peruvian .\mazon or Ucayale River. Robert Perlcins. 



(Xot of Linnaeus.) 



Head 3; depth 2J; D. in, 9, i; A. in. 7, i; scales 48 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal, and 5 more on latter; 12 scales in an oblique series 

 back from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 9 series of scales obliquely 

 back from origin of ventral to lateral line; 9 series of scales obliqueh- 

 forward from origin of ventral to lateral line; about 32 scales before 

 dorsal; snout 3f in head; eye 34; width of mouth 3f ; interorbital space 

 2i- ; pectoral If ; ventral If ; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|. Rakers 

 none. Gill-filaments about i of orbit. Postventral carina well 

 developed, scales strongly pectinate which form it. Scales on body 

 all more or less ctenoid. Upper and lower profiles of body more or 

 less evenly convex. Scales on trunk enlarged anteriorly on middle of 

 side, so that longitudinal series are formed which are more or less 

 liarallel with coiu'se of lateral line above, and laelow converging as they 




306 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



approach caudal. In alcohol brassy-brown with more or less silvery. 

 Back till about level with occiput a dull olive-brown. Upper surface 

 of head brownish. Body mostly washed with silvery. Fins plain 

 brown, and pale like side. Iris brown. Length 5J inches. This is the 

 largest example. It is from between the mouth of the Rio Negro and 

 the Peruvian Amazon. Robert Perkins. Also another example with 

 same data. These are labelled, evidently in Cope's handwriting, as 

 "Curimatus cyprinoides v. aff." 



Besides the above are 5 examples from the Ambyiacu river in the 

 Hauxwell collection. Cope's label reads "Curimatus rutiloidcs." An 

 examination of the air-vessels of two of these examples shows that it 

 persists nearly as far posteriorly till opposite base of penultimate anal 

 ray. It is thus apparent that Cope may have intended all the ex- 

 amples before me to represent his C. rutiloides, but the original labels 

 in his own handwriting would lead to the above allocating of the 

 references. The form called Psectrogaster amazonica by Dr. and Mrs. 

 Eigenmann I cannot distinguish in my examples. 



Potamorhina pristigaster (Steindachner). 



Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila,, XVII, 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 685. 

 Peruvian Amazon, probably from Nauta. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. of 1873. 



Head 3; depth 2 to 2}, a little larger in smaller specimen; D. iii, 9; 

 A. Ill, 11 to III, 13, i; ventral scutes 22 to 28; scales (squamation 

 damaged) about 90 in lateral line to base of caudal and several more 

 on latter; snout 3^ to 3f in head; eye 4J to 4^; width of mouth 3^ 

 to 3^; interorbital space 2^ to 2|; total length of 3 examples 6 to 9 

 inches (caudal damaged). 



Anodus elongatus Agassis. Fig. 9. 



Anodus steafops Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1877-78 (Mav 

 17, 1878), p. 683. Nos. 21,498 (type) and 21,499, A. N. S. P., cotj^jes. 

 Pebas. Prof. J. Orton. CoU. of 1877. 



Body rather plump. Head broadly convex above, a little restricted 

 below. Snout when viewed above rather romided. Edges of jaws 

 not sharp. Lips thin. Rami of mandible well elevated inside mouth. 

 Tongue large, elongate, flattened above, rounded in front and free. 

 Inside mouth upper membrane broad. Interorbital space Ijroadly 

 convex. Gill-opening extending forward to front margin of orbit. 

 Rakers 66? -I- 100?, long, slender, or very fine and numerous and long- 

 est equal to 1-j- eye-diameters. On inner edge of first branchial arch 

 also a series shorter in length. Longest filaments nearly equal orbit. 

 Isthmus long, narrow and slender. A triangular naked space extend- 

 ing back on occiput. Edges of body rounded excejit those of lateral 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



307 



line. Vent close in front of anal. Color in alcohol dull olive-brown, 

 darker on back, and top of head deep brownish. Fins dull greenish, 

 bases of caudal lobes blackish. A brownish or dusky blotch on several 

 scales about and in lateral line about opposite tip of depressed dorsal. 

 Greenish tints all probably due to the preservative. Iris and adipose 

 eyeUd brownish. Length (caudal damaged) lOi inches. Type. 

 In explanation of Cope's remarks it may be stated that these fishes 



Fig. 9. — A nodus elongatus Agassiz. 



agree best with Anodus elongatus Agassiz, a species from which I am 

 unable to separate it. The pectorals and ventrals, although damaged, 

 reach more than half the distance credited. The ventrals are more 

 anterior in position, or originate under the anterior portion of the 

 dorsal, and not opposite its middle. 



EIGENMANNINA geo. nov. 

 Type Anodus mdanopogon Cope. 



Head large, especially opercular apparatus, and upper profile 

 strongly concave. ^landible well produced beyond tip of upper jaw 

 so that mouth is superior. Eye above middle in depth of head. Body 

 heavy anteriorlj', and tapering towards caudal. In other respects 

 more or less allied to Anodus. 



(Named for Dr. Carl H. Eigemaiann, of the Chair of Zoology in 

 Iniliana Universit}', a well-known authority on South American fishes.) 




308 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Eigenmannina melanopogon (Cope). Fig. 10. 



Anndus mrlcuiopogini Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Pliila., X^'II, 1877-78 

 (May 17, 1878), p. 682. Nos. 21,227 (type) to 21,232, A. N. S. P., cotj'pes. 

 Peru\'ian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. of 1873. 



Width of head 3^ in its length; interorbital space 4f. Body, head 



and caudal peduncle compressed. Upper surface of head narrow, 



convex, and lower surface constricted. Snout rounded and convex 



when seen from above. Jaws more or less flattened or spatidate. 



Each ramus of mandible well ele^-ated inside of mouth. Lips hardly 



developed or very thin. Tongue small, narrow, rather thick, fleshy, 



Fig. 10. — E>genmanmna melanopogon (Cope). 



and imited with floor of mouth Ijy a median fleshy frcnum. Upper 

 buccal membrane rather narrow. Interorbital space a little elevated 

 convexly and flattened medianly. Gill-opening large, extending for- 

 ward till a little before front rim of orbit. Vent close in front of anal. 

 Color in alcohol more or less silvery, back brown fading to white on 

 sides and under smface. Top of head brown, sides and lower surface 

 silvered white. Fins pale brownish, dorsal and caudal a trifle darker, 

 and each ray of most fins speckled or spotted rather indistinctly with 

 darker brownish. Iris rather brassy. Length 2| inches (caudal 

 damaged). Type. 



One example shows 35? + 54? slender rakers, and longest about 

 equals eye or much longer than filaments. 



With reference to the original description. Cope evidently intended 

 to state that the base of the first dorsal ray was three millimeters nearer 

 the end of the muzzle than the base of the caudal. Both pectorals and 

 ventrals reach more than half way in the spaces stated. Cope evi- 

 dently counts 128 rows of scales from the occipital region, and those 

 on base of caudal. The origin of the ventral is below the bases of 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



309 



the anterior dorsal rays. ]\Iost of rays of the fius are specked with 

 brownish. 



This species is related to Eigcnmannina orinocensis (Steindachner), 

 but differs in the fewer scales, absence of the dark median lateral blotch 

 and the coloration of the caudal. 



CHILOMYZON subgen. nov. 

 Type Prochilodus steindachneri sp. nov. 



Scales large, less than 40, usually between .33 and 38 in a lateral 

 count. ]\Iouth disk-like and inferior. Related to Prochilodus Agassiz. 



(.Vei/ioj, lip; /j.i>!^u), to SUCk.) 

 Prochilodus steindachneri sp. nov. Fig. 11. 



Head 3^; depth 2i; D. in, 9, i; A. in, 8, i; P. i, 14; V. i, 8; scales 34 

 in lateral line to base of caudal and 3 more on latter; about 14 scales 



Prochilodus steindachneri Fowler. 



before dorsal; 7 scales obliciuely back from origin of dorsal to lateral 

 line; 6 scales obliquely forward from origin of ventral to lateral line, 

 and same numlier in similar count from origin of anal ; about 16 scales 

 from isthmus to origin of ventral; 3 scales obliquely back from origin 

 21 




310 PKOCEEUINGP OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



of adipose fin to lateral line; width of head If in its length; depth of 

 head H; snout 3f ; eye Sf; width of mouth 2J; interorbital space 2^ ; 

 third dorsal ray 1^; third anal ray 2; length of pectoral 1§; of ventral 

 1+; least depth of caudal peduncle 2^. 



Body deep, compressed, rhomboid in shape, and suggesting certain 

 Cyprinidce. Upper profile more or less evenl}^ convex, back elevated, 

 and greatest depth at origin of dorsal. Lower profile at first straight 

 for a good distance, and becoming convex posteriori}-. Caudal 

 peduncle compressed, short, and its least depth about equals its length. 



Head small, compressed or restricted a little below, and upper surface 

 broadly rounded. Lower surface of head also flattened. Snout 

 broad, obtuse, flesh}^ and produced well beyond tip of mandible. Eye 

 circular, a trifle anterior, and above center in depth of head. Eyelid 

 narrow. Mouth broad, and in profile of gape curved downwards. 

 When opened mouth is broad, directed interiorly, and jaws furnished 

 with broad thick and fleshy lips formed somewhat as a disk. Margin 

 of this disk with a single series of small weak or movable ciliiform 

 teeth. In front of each jaw behind outer series a short second or inner 

 series of similar ones, convex or angular in its course, and with bend or 

 anc^le directed inwards. Aperture of mouth small. Tongue small, 

 hardly free from floor of mouth. Nostrils close together on side of 

 snout above, and much nearer upper front rim of orbit than tip of 

 upper jaw. Anterior nostril circular, with its posterior cutaneous 

 margin more or less concealing posterior \A'hich is thus lunate. Inter- 

 orbital space broad and convex. Infraorbital rim narrow, lowest or 

 most posterior largest. Preorbital a little swollen, with a deej) cavity 

 and large thick lip and maxillary more or less filling it when mouth is 

 closed. Opercle striate. Opercular flap broad and rather cutaneous. 



Gill-opening extending forward till nearly opposite posterior margin 

 of orbit. Rakers none. Filaments of inner series a little longer than 

 those in outer, or about equal to y of orbital diameter. Isthmus 

 broad. Branchiostegals long, broad, subequal, and 4 on each arch. 



Scales large, of more or less even size, disposed in longitudinal series 

 parallel with lateral line, and each one with several strise. Margin of 

 each scale also a little rough. Small scales on bases of caudal and anal, 

 otherwise fins and head naked. A pointed scaly flap in axil of ven- 

 tral equal to about ^ of length of ventral. Both predorsal and post- 

 dorsal regions with a median keel, former most distinct, and latter also 

 extendino' on upper surface of caudal peduncle behind adii:)Ose fin 

 though still less distinct. Behind first dorsal also an indistinct lateral 

 keel on each side, and below and posterior to adipose fin they are also 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



evident. Preventral region keeled in similar manner to postdorsal, 

 only median keel most pronounced. Postventral and postanal region 

 keeled, former may be considered almost trenchant. Lateral line 

 continuous, of simple tubes, a little above middle in depth of bodj^ and 

 continuous to caudal. 



Dorsal high, third ray longest, and origin of fin would fall in -sertical 

 about midway between tip of snout and base of adipose fin. Anal 

 small, anterior ra3-s longest, margin of fin concave, and its origin 

 nearer base of caudal than origin of ventral. Adipose dorsal small, 

 its base inserted about opposite bases of last anal rays. Caudal long, 

 deeply emarginate and end of each lobe apparently more or less pointed. 

 Pectoral rather long, pointed, and extending beyond origin of doreal 

 or about f of space to ventral, ^'entral inserted nearly opposite middle 

 of base of dorsal or about midway between origin of anal and that of 

 pectoral, and extending about J of distance to former. A'ent close in 

 front of anal fin. 



Color in alcohol more or less pale brownish washed with silvery- 

 purplish. Back a little darker than side and lower surface. Body 

 also with about fifteen or more indistinct vertical or transverse pm'plish- 

 dusky bands. Dorsal with about si.x series of brownish spots on rays. 

 Other fins pale plain brownish. Iris brassy. 



Length 5 inches. 



Type, No. 8,207, A. X. S. P. Parahyba, BrazU, Museum of Com- 

 parative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. Only one example, the tj'pe. 



This species is closely related to ProcMlodus corimbata (Kner) = 

 Salmo corimbata Natterer, in Kner = P. iiigricans Kner, nee Agassiz = 

 P. oligolepis Giinther. Dr. Steindachner's accoimt of the last does 

 not give the coloration. Other related species are P. humeralis 

 Giinther and P. rimboides Kner, both differing in proportions, etc. 



(Named for Dr. Franz Steindachner.) 



Subgenus PROCHILODUS Agassiz. 



Scales small, more than 40 or usually between 40 and 60 in a lateral 

 count. Mouth similar to that of ChUomyzon. 



Proohilodus artonianas Cope. Fig. 12. 



Proc. Amer. PhUos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 685. No. 

 21,267 (t\'pe), A. N. S. P., cot^•pe. Xauta, Peru. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. 

 of 1S73. " 



Width of head If in its length ; width of mouth 2 j ; interorbital space 2. 

 Body robust, compressed, and caudal peduncle similar. Head broad, 

 robust, convex on upper sm-face, and lower sm-face but little restricted 




312 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



though more evenly convex. Width of head more or less even. 

 Snout broad, convex above and broadly rounded when viewed from 

 above. Interorbital space convex and median narrow fontanel extend- 

 ing from internasal space to occiput. Head with arborescent mucous 

 canals on upper side posteriorly and on suborbital region. Gill-open- 

 ing falling a trifle short of posterior margin of orbit. Rakers none. 

 Gill-filaments about 1^ in eye. Isthmus broad. Branchiostegals 4, 

 large, well developed and subequal. Scales a little rough and each one 



Fig. 12. — Prochilodus (trtoitianus Cope. 



with several striiE. Predorsal region slightly keeled. Postdorsal 

 region rounded. Upper and lower surfaces of caudal peduncle a 

 little flattened. Preventral region flattened medianlj'. Postventral 

 region sharply keeled medianly and an obsolete keel on each side, all 

 three converging towards vent. Color in alcohol at present dull 

 olivaceous or brassy-brown, back with more or less dull metallic 

 shades. Fins all pale brownish, dorsal and caudal each with about 8 

 series of brownish spots on each ray of former, and about 6 on each 

 lobe of caudal, so that on latter they form more or less transverse 

 bands. Iris brownish. Length 7f inches. Type. 



Prochilodus cephalotes Cope. Fig. 13. 



Proe. .\iner. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1S77-7S (May 17, 1S78), p. 686. No. 

 21,211, A. X. S. P., U-pe. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. CoU. of 

 1873. 



Width of head If in its length; width of mouth 2J; interorbital space 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



313 



2. Width of head greatest in postero-supraocular region. Gill-fila- 

 ments about f of orbit. Predorsal region apparently keeled. Pre- 

 ventral region apparently rounded, and postventral region keeled. 

 Color in alcohol more or less pale plumbeous and somewhat silvered. 

 Back darker or dusky-pluml)eous. Upper surface of head like back, 



Fig. 13. — Prochilodus cephaloles Cope. 



and lower surface like that of bell_v. Damaged dorsal with at least 4 

 series of deep brownish spots on rays. Caudal also with transverse 

 series of spots, other fins plain. Iris brassy. Length 2f inches. 

 Otherwise like the preceding. 



Prochilodus theraponura sp. nov. Fig. 14. 



Prochilodus iiisignis Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S71 (January 16, 

 1872), p. 258. Ambyiacu River, Equador. John Hauxwell. 



Head 2*; depth 2^; D. iii, 9; A. iii, 8, i; P. ii, 11?; V. ii, 8; scales 

 about 40? (squamation damaged), and 5? more evidently on base of 

 caudal; about 10? scales obliquely back from origin of dorsal to lateral 

 line; about 8? scales obliquely forward from origin of anal to lateral 

 line; 14 scales before dorsal; width of head about 2 in its length; 

 depth of head 1^; snout 3^; eye 3; width of mouth 3; interorbital space 

 2^; length of fii-st branched dorsal ray IJ; base of dorsal 2^; base of 

 anal 2^; length of upper caudal lobe 1; pectoral If; ventral Ij; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 3^. 




314 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Body robust, compressed, back Ijut little elevated so that upper 

 profile would form an obtuse angle at origin of dorsal, and lower profile 

 more or less evenly convex. Greatest depth at origin of dorsal. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed, and its length about | its least depth. 



Head compressed, convex on upper surface, and sides constricted 

 below. Greatest width in postero-supraocular region, and \ipper 

 profile nearly straight or only a trifle concave. Snout short, convex, 

 rather broad, and rounded when viewed from above. Eye circular, 



Fig. 14. — Prochilodus theraponura Fowler. 



antericfr, and a trifle above middle of depth. Eyelid narrow. Jaws 

 even, a little broad, and together with mouth and nostrils like in pre- 

 ceding species of Prochilodus. Interorbital space convex, and median 

 fontanel extending from internasal region to occiput, broader. Post- 

 orbital largest in suborbital rim. Mucous channels on cranium later- 

 ally not pronounced. Opercle with indistinct curved transverse striiB. 

 Gill-flap apparently narrow. 



Gill-opening extending forwanl a little in advance of posterior margin 

 of orbit. Rakers none. Gill-filaments equal, about | length of orbit. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Isthmus a little narrowly compressed. Branchiostegals 4. large and 

 subequal. 



Scales mostly fallen, little rough, apparently disposed in even longi- 

 tudinal series parallel with lateral line, each one with one or more 

 strise, and apparently of more or less even size. Small scales appa- 

 rently along bases of dorsal and anal, and on that of caudal. No trace 

 of ventral flap remains. Predoi-sal region keeled. Postdorsal region 

 roimded. Upper and lower sm-faces of caudal peduncle, preventral 

 and postventral regions keeled. Lateral line (damaged) continuous, 

 on base of caudal, nearly' straight, more or less median, and of simple 

 tubes. 



Origin of dorsal about mithvay between tip of snout and base of 

 adipose fin, first branched ray longest, and others apparently gradu- 

 ated down. Adipose fin with base over those of last anal rays. Origin 

 of anal much nearer base of caudal than origin of ventral, or nearly 

 midway between base of last dorsal ray and that of caudal, and anterior 

 rays apparently longest. Pectoral low, rather long, and reaching 

 ventral, ^'entral with origin a trifle in advance of middle of base of 

 dorsal, and reaching nearly f of space to anal. Vent close in front of 

 anal. 



Color in alcohol pale plumbeous, sides and lower surface more or less 

 silvered, and back dusky-plumbeous. Upper siu-face of head dusky- 

 plumbeous, sides and lower surface silvered. Fins all pale brownish. 

 Dorsal with four well-defined broad deep brown cross-bands. Caudal 

 with two similar colored obliciue bands on each lobe, and a median or 

 horizontal one from base of fin to tips of middle rays. Anal with lower 

 anterior tip of fin brownish, and another horizontal transverse band 

 from origin of fin to tips of more posterior rays also of brownish. 

 Pectoral and ventral apparently plain pale brownish. Iris duU 

 brownish. 



Length 2^ inches. 



Type, No. 8,033, A. X. S. P. Ambyiacu River, Equador. John 

 Hauxwell. Only one example. 



Formerly identified by Cope with Prochilodus insignis Ivner, this 

 species may at least provisionally be regarded as distinct. This is in 

 view of the identity of Prochilodus insig)iis Jardine and P. insignis of 

 Kner, and later of Dr. Gunther, not yet having been proved. Schom- 

 bm-gk's figure, as presented by Jardine, shows each lobe of the caudal 

 with five oblique bands besides the median one, which is also in agree- 

 ment in the description. Dr. Giinther's Amazon examples are said to 

 have only three or four bands across each lobe besides the median one. 




316 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Prochilodus Iheraponura may thus be said to differ from all of the 

 others in the fact that it has but two oblique dark bars on the caudal, 

 aside from the median one. 



{Bspd-zwVj servant, with reference to the caudal bands, like those of 

 Therapon; ovpa^ tail.) 

 Prooliiladus amazonensis sp. nov. Fig. 15. 



Head 3^; depth 2f ; D. in, 9, i; A. iir, S, i; P. i, 16; V. i, 8; scales 

 about 43 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 5 more on latter; 11 scales 

 obliquely back from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 8 scales obliquely 

 forward up from origin of anal to lateral line; 10 scales obliquely up 

 from origin of ventral to lateral line; 15 scales before clorsal; width of 

 head If in its length ; depth of head 1^ ; snout 3 ; eye 3^ ; maxillary 3i^ ; 



Fig. 15. — Prochilodus amazonensis Fowler. 



width of mouth 2|-; interorbital space 2; length of base of dorsal 1|; 

 length of base of anal 24; length of pectoral If; ventral (damaged) li, 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2|. 



Body rather deep, compressed, back l^ut little elevated so that upper 

 profile would form a rather obtuse angle at origin of dorsal, at which 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



point is also greatest depth. Lower profile more or less evenly convex. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed, and its length equals about f its least 

 depth. 



Head robust, broad and convex on upper surface with profile nearly 

 straight or only very slightly concave, and lower surface but little 

 restricted, though more evenly convex. Width of head more or less 

 even. Snout broad, rather short, convex above, and broadl}' rounded 

 when seen from above. Eye circular, anterior, and a Uttle above 

 middle in depth of head. Eyelid narrow. Jaws broad, rounded, almost 

 even or upper a trifle produced. Lips thick and flesh}', and teeth as 

 in prececUng species. Upper buccal flap bvoad and with a median 

 fleshy tubercle in front. Lower buccal flap broad. Tongue and 

 nostrils as in preceding species. Interorbital space also similar, and 

 fontanel rather narrow. Postorbitals largest in suborbital chain. 

 Cranium and suborbitals with mucous canals, some arborescent. 

 Opercles with traces of very faint radiating strise. GOl-flap narrow. 



Gill-opening extending fonvard till nearly opposite posterior margin 

 of pupil. Rakers in form of 4? + 8? or more short inconspicuous 

 fleshy points along outer edge of first branchial arch. Filaments long, 

 series on inner edge of first arch longer, equalling about f of orbital 

 diameter. Isthmus broad. Branchiostegals 4, large, well developed 

 and subequal. 



Scales rather small, striate, rather smooth, in even longitudinal or 

 horizontal series parallel with lateral line, and of more or less even size. 

 Small scales along bases of dorsal and anal and on that of caudal. 

 Ventral with a rather short pointed scaly flap about l- length of (dam- 

 aged) fin. Predorsal region with a median keel. Postdorsal region 

 rounded. Upper and lower surfaces of caudal peduncle flattened. 

 Preventral region flattened posteriorly, and with a low or obsolete keel 

 anteriorly. Postventral region trenchant and -nith an obsolete keel 

 on each side, convergent posteriorly. Lateral line continuous, median 

 on side, extending on base of caudal, decmved a little in front, and 

 mostly of simple tubes except those on first 6 scales which are arbores- 

 cent. 



Origin of dorsal falling in vertical about midway between tip of 

 snout and origin of adipose fin, rays long, first branched one apparently 

 highest, and others graduated down so that last one is less than half 

 length of first. Adipose dorsal small, its base over bases of posterior 

 anal rays. Anal ii^iserted nearly midwaj- between base of last dorsal 

 ray and base of caudal, anterior rays longest and edge of fin a little 

 concave. Caudal emarginate, lobes apparenth- broad. Pectoral low,' 




31S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



pointed or iipj^er rays longest, and reaching ventral. Ventral inserted 

 about opposite first third of base of dorsal. A'ent close in front of 

 anal. 



Color in alcohol pale or dull brownish more or less silvered or with 

 brassy reflections. Back with pale or tlull purplish reflections becom- 

 ing very dilute greenish on sides. Each scale more or less paler on 

 outer or exposed portion, so that rather pale longitudinal lines are 

 formed on back. Upper surface of head brownish, sides and lower 

 surface silvered. Fins all pale brownish, dorsal with about eight dusky 

 cross-bands. Caudal with a median lilackish band from center of its 

 base to tips of median raj-s, and each lobe with three oblique bands of 

 similar color, but broader anteriorly. Anal with three horizontal 

 dusky bands, lowest near tips of anterior rays, median beginning at 

 origin of fin. and upper at posterior rays. Pectoral and ventral plain. 

 Iris brownish. 



Length 4f inches. 



Type. No. 21,3.50, A. N. S. P. Lower Amazons. Prof. J. Orton. 

 Coll. of 1874. Prof. E. D. Cope. One example. 



This species is also apparently closely related to Prochilodus insignis 

 Jardine, but differs in the fewer blackish bars on the caudal lobes. It 

 will possibly prove identical with the examples recorded by Dr. Giinther 

 which have three dark bars on each caudal lobe. 



(Named for the Amazon river of South America, also WTitten Ama- 

 zons and Amazonas. The name Amazon is said to be derived from 

 the Indian word Amassona or "boat -destroyer," with reference to the 

 destructive tidal phenomenon or proroca.) 



HEMIODOPSIS subgen. nov. 

 Tj-pe Hemiodus microlepis Kner. 

 This group is distinguished from subgenus Hemiodiis Miiller and 

 Troschel by the small scales in a lateral count, at least 100 or more. 



i'tlM', half; oouui, tooth; ^v'''?, appearance, with reference to the 

 subgenus Hemiodus.) 



Hemiodus microlepis Kner. 



Cupe, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S71 (1S72), p. 291. Between the mouth 



of the Rio Xegro and the Peru\'ian Amazon. Robert Perkins. 



Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. See. Phihi,. XVII, 1877-78 (May 17, 1S78), p. 

 686. Permian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Head 4; depth 3y%; D. in, 9, i; A. iii, 9, i; scales about 105 (squania- 



tion injured) in lateral line to base of caudal, and 7 more on latter; 



about 24? scales obliquely back from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 



.about 12? scales between lateral line and origin of ventral, and about 



same number between former and origin of anal ; snout 3^ in head ; eye 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



4f ; interorbital space 3; pectoral H; ventral 1^; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 2f. Eye midway in depth of head. Gill-opening extend- 

 ing fon\-ard till about opposite middle of orbit. Rakers 22? + 38?. 

 compressed, cuneated triangidarly, and inner edge of each cUiate. 

 Gill-filainents about equal to f of orbital diameter. Scales above 

 pectoral anteriorly, both above and below lateral line, and on breast, 

 enlarged. Scales on base of caudal also a little large. Scales on post- 

 dorsal region of back formed into more or less convergent series and 

 larger than those just below. Lower lobe of caudal much longer than 

 upper, just the reverse of that indicated by Kner. Length 9 inches 

 (caudal damaged). One example from Robert Perkins, taken between 

 the mouth of the Rio Negro and the Peruvian Amazon. 



Also two smaller examples from the Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. 

 Orton. Coll. 1873 and 1877. Prof. E. D. Cope. These both show 

 about 120 scales in lateral line to base of caudal, and 7 or 8 more on 

 latter, iliddle of lower lobe of caudal dusky longitudinally, and 

 deepest basally. The Perkins example shows this as faint. 



CITHARININ^. 



Citbarinus citharas (Geoflroy St. Hilaire). 



Citharinus geoffroii Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1S96 (February 4), 

 p. 22.3. Lake Rudolf. Dr. A. D. Smith. 



Head 2f ; depth 2i; D. iv, 14, i; A. v, 24, i; scales 83 in lateral line 

 to base of caudal, and 5 more on latter; 21 scales in a vertical series 

 between origin of dorsal and lateral line; 17 scales between origin of 

 anal and lateral line in a vertical series; snout 4A in head; eye 3A; 

 width of mouth 3; interorbital space 3; base of dorsal IJ; base of anal 

 1^; least depth of caudal peduncle 3f ; pectoral 14; ventral 1^. Back 

 rather elevated, profile forming an angle at origin of dorsal. Lower 

 profile of body more or less evenly convex. Head becoming com- 

 pressed below. Snout short and broad. Eye about circular. Liter- 

 orbital space broad and a trifle convex. Gill-rakers not evitlent. 

 Color in alcohol, back brownish from a little above lateral line, and 

 lower surface and side silvery-white. Fins pale brownish. Iris pale 

 straw-color. Length 2f inches. Two examples, the other a little 

 smaller. They both differ from the original figure of Geoffroy St. 

 Hilaire in the straight upper anterior profile. 



PITHECOCHARACIN.E subfam. nom. nov. 



(Anostoimjice Auct.) 



PITHECOCHAEAX gen. nov. 



Tj-pe Saliiio anoslomus Linnaeus. 



Snout narrow and conic, and mouth superior. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



This name is proposed as Anostomus Klein, in Walbaum, Pd. Arted. 

 Gen. Pise, III, 1792, p. 659 {type Salmo anostomus Linnseus) = Gray, 

 Cat. Brit. Mus. Fish. Gron., 1854, p. 153, is preoccupied in Orni- 

 thology by Anasto7mis Bonnaterre, Enc. Mcth. Ornith.. 1790, p. xciii. 



{flcOTjKOi^ ape, with reference to the short snout or nose; /«,"«?, 

 Charax.) 



f itiiecooharax trimaoulatas (Kner). 



Schizodon trimaailatm^ Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., X^^I, 1877-78 

 (May 17, 1878), p. 690. Peru\-ian Amazon. Prof. James Orton. Coll. of 



1877. 



Head 4; depth 3; D. ii, 10, i; A. in, 8, i; scales 40 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal, and 2 more on latter; about 16 scales before dorsal; 

 6 scales obliquely back from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 6 scales 

 obliquely up from origin of ventral to lateral line; 5 scales obliquely 

 up from origin of anal to lateral line; pectoral H in head; ventral If; 

 snout 3 in head, from tip of upper jaw; eye 3f ; interorbital space 2^. 

 Rakers absent. Color in alcohol with each scale marked medianly 

 with a pale area so that longitudinal series are formed, becoming 

 convergent posteriorly. Length 5J inches (caudal damaged). 



Also another, 3 inches long, with same data. The opercular blotch, 

 on both of my examples, appears to be superior according to such 

 traces of it as remain, rather than inferior as indicated on Ivner's 

 figure. 



Pithecocharax uoayalensis .-ip. nov. Fig. 16. 



Head 3 ; depth 3^ ; D. in, 10 ; A. in, 8. i ; P. i, 12? ; V. i, 8 ; scales about 

 33? in lateral line to base of caudal (squamation injured), and a]3pa- 

 rently several more on latter; about 5? scales between origin of dorsal, 

 obliquely back, and lateral line; about 4? scales between lateral line 

 and origin of anal ; width of head about 2 J in its length ; depth of head, 

 over middle of orbit, about 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 3i; 

 snout 3^ in head, measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 3; interorbital 

 space 3. 



Body elongate, compressed, back a little elevated or with upper pro- 

 file a little more convex than lower, and greatest depth about middle 

 of predorsal region. Predorsal. postdorsal. and preventral regions 

 (desquamated) apparently rounded. Postventral region possibly with 

 median keel? Caudal peduncle compressed, and least depth about f 

 its length. 



Head compressed, elongate, and attenuate inferiorly, or with upper 

 profile much more inclined than lower. Snout short, moderately 

 broad, straight in profile and upper surface convex. Eye circular and 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



321 



a little anterior. Mouth superior and mandible well protruding in 

 front, cleft nearly vertical. Maxillary small and vertical. Teeth 

 large, sharp, crenulate, uniserial, and two median mandibulars largest 

 and most conspicuous. Tongue rather broad, rounded, and hardh^ 

 free. Anterior nostril in a fleshy tube about equal to diameter of pupil 

 in length, lateral, and nearly midway in length of snout. Posterior 

 nostril large, a little inclined, slit-like, and close to middle of anterior 

 rim of orbit. Interorbital space broad and nearly flattened. 



Gill-opening extending about opposite posterior margin of pupil. 



Fig. 16. — Pilhecocharax ucaijrilensis Fowler. 



Rakers short weak fleshy protuberances, and moderately numerous. 

 Filaments well developed. 



Scales mostly fallen, large, evidently in rows parallel with lateral 

 line, and also apparently all of more or less even size. Base of caudal 

 apparently scaly. Lateral line evidently complete, and of simple 

 tubes. 



Origin of dorsal nearly midway between tip of mandible and base of 

 caudal. Origin of adipose fin placed about last fourth in space between 

 origin of dorsal and base of caudal. Anal iiLserted well behind dorsal, 

 or near middle of space between end of ventral and base of caudal. 

 Pectoral low, and though damaged apparently not reaching ventral. 

 Ventral inserted a short distance before origin of dorsal, and though 

 also damaged not reaching perhaps more than half way to anal. 



Color in alcohol brown, lower surface and fins paler. Body with 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



about seven broad ill-defined dark brown or dusky transverse bands. 

 First three nuchal or predorsal, fourth from base of dorsal, fifth and 

 sixth from postdorsal region, and seventh from base of adipose fin. 

 Fins pale, caudal lighter and with a sulibasal transverse blackish line. 

 Iris brownish. 



T-ength (caudal damaged) 1^ inches. 



Type, No. 21,997, A. N. S. P. Peruvian Amazon or Ucayale River. 

 Prof. J. Orton. Coll. Prof. E. D. Cope. 



This species is distinguished from Pithecocharax anostomus (Linnseus) 

 and P. trimaculatus (Kner) chiefly bj' the coloration. 



(Named for the Ucayale or Ucayali River, sometimes called Peru- 

 vian Amazon or Paro.) 



SoWzodon fasciatua Agassiz. 



Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1S69-70 (.\ugust 19, 1870), p. 566. 



Para. De Schulte Buckow. Cope, I.e., XVII, 1S77-7S (May 17, 1878), 



p. 689. Permian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 

 A7ioiitomus fasciatus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 258. 



Ambyiacu River, Equador. John Hauxwell. 



Head 3|; depth 31; D. ii, 9, i; A. ii, S, i; scales 37 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal, and 4 more on latter; 11 scales before dorsal; 5 scales 

 obliquely back from dorsal to lateral line; 5 scales obliquely up from 

 origin of ventral to lateral line; 4 scales obliquely up from origin of 

 anal to lateral line; pectoral 14 in head ; A-entral 1^; snout 2^^ in head, 

 from tip of upper jaw; eye 3f ; interorbital space 2. Rakers none. 

 Coloration faded dull brown. Length 6 J- inches (caudal damaged). 

 Para, Brazil. De Schulte Buckow. Prof. E. D. Cope. 



Three examples from the Peruvian Amazon, the largest about 7k 

 inches in length, show: Head 3f to 4; depth 3| to 3|; D. ii, 10, i; A. 

 Ill, 8, i; scales 38 to 40 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 4 on latter. 

 The color-pattern is constant. None of my examples show the dark 

 transverse bar on the lower caudal lobe figured by Agassiz. The dark 

 bars on the trunk are not absolutely vertical, the first two at least 

 inclined a little back. They are also placed about equal in space and 

 not extending across the ventral surface. Agassiz also indicates the 

 eye too low in depth of head. 



One example from the Amb3'iacu, 7^ inches long (caudal damaged). 

 John Hauxwell. It agrees with the Orton examples. 



Laemolyta taeniata (Kner). 



Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1S71 (1872), p. 259. Am^-iacu River, 

 Equador. John Hauxwell. 



Head 4; depth 5; D. ii, 10, i; A. iii, 8, i; scales 37 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal, and 5 more on latter; 5 scales obliquely back from 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



323 



origin of dorsal to lateral line; 4 scales obliqiieh' up from origin of 

 ventral to lateral line; 4 scales from origin of anal obliciuely up to 

 lateral line; 13 scales before dorsal; pectoral If in head; ventral li; 

 snout 3 in head, from tip of upper jaw; e3'e 3; interorbital space 2^. 

 Rakers none. Length i^ inches (caudal damaged). Two examples. 



The median dusky longitudinal band extends from the snout to the 

 caudal. Kner's figure does not indicate it on the side of the snout or 

 on the post ocular region. 



PCECILOSO.MATOPS subgen. nov. 

 Tj-pe Characidium etheostoma Cope. 

 Scales smaller transversely, about 4 from opposite origin of anal in an 

 oblique series forward to lateral line. 



(ffojfft-i'ii-, variegated; <Tu>pa, body; ai^'', appearance. Pcea'losoma v:as 

 an old name employed by Agassiz for certain Etheostomatina' , to which 

 these fishes bear a certain resemblance.) 



¥\g. 17. — Characidium etheostoma Copu. 



Characidinm etheostoma Cope. Fig. IT. 



Proc. Acad. X.it. Sei. Pliila., 1S71 (1S72), p. 259. PI. 13, fig. 3. No. 8,1.52 

 (t\-pe) and 8,153, A. \. S. P., cotj-pes. Ambjiacu River, Equador. 

 John Hauxwell. 



Scales 11 before dorsal; width of head about 2i in its length; inter- 

 orbital space 3J. Body well compressed. Muzzle compressed. 

 Snout rather narrow. Lips thin. Teeth in jaws uniserial, even and 

 fine, none on maxillaries. Interorbital space convex. Gill-opening 




324 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



extending forward opposite posterior margin of pupil. Rakers short, 

 lanceolate and weak, in small number. Filaments well developed. 

 Isthmus a little broad. Each scale with several radiating strife. Vent 

 placed about last f in space between origins of ventrals and anal. 

 Color in alcohol brownish, lower surface paler, and fins still paler. 

 Body with about eleven transverse brownish bands, at first of about 

 equal width with alternate interspaces, but posteriorly interspaces 

 becoming wider. First band nuchal, second and third predorsal, 

 fourth just before origin of dorsal, fifth from middle of base of dorsal, 

 .sixth from just behind last dorsal ray, seventh and eighth from post- 

 dorsal region with latter entirely in front of adipose fin, ninth and 

 tenth across caudal peduncle, and eleventh which is dusky on base of 

 caudal. A rather narrow deep brownish band from tip of snout 

 across side of head and embracing lateral line to base of caudal. Dor- 

 sal with at least three brownish longitudinal rather narrow bands or 

 lines, upper ones less distinct. Iris brassy-silvery. Length 1 J inches. 

 Type. 



From Dr. Steindachner's description it would hardly seem probable 

 that his Characidium purpuratum is identical with C. etheostoma, in 

 fact it falls in a different subgenus as the species are here understood 

 if there are but 2i to 3 scales between the origin of the anal and the 

 lateral line. 



Subgenus CHARACIDIUM Reinhardt. 



Scales large transversely, about 3 from opposite origin of anal in an 

 oblique series forward to lateral line. 



Fig. IS. — Characidium steindachncri Cope. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



Characidium steindaohneri Cope. Fig. 18. 



Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1877-7S (May 17. 1878). p. 688. No. 

 21,428, A. N. S. P., tj-pe. Peru\-ian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. of 

 1873. 



Width of head 2^ in its length. Gill-opening extending forward 

 about opposite middle of pupil. Vent about last fourth in space 

 between origins of ventral and anal. Color in alcohol brownish with 

 about 9 transverse distinct dusky bars. Fins all pale brownish. 

 Iris brownish. Length about IxV inches (caudal damaged). Other- 

 wise like the preceding. 



Characidium tenuis (Cope). 



Chorimyderus tenuis Cope, .'Vnier. Nat., XX^T^I, 1894, p. 67. The upper 

 waters of tlie Jaeuhy River, in the Brazilian State of Rio Grande do Sul. 



H. H. Smith. Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XXXIII, 1894 



(January 5), p. 86, PI. .5, fig. 3. 



Head 4j; depth 6* ; D. iii, 9; A. iii, 6, i; scales 36 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal and 2 more on latter; 4 scales obliquely Isack between 

 origin of dorsal and lateral line ; 3 scales obliquely back from origin of 

 adipose fin to lateral line; 3 scales from opposite origin of ventral 

 obliqueh* up and forward to lateral line; 3 scales obliquely forward and 

 up from origin of anal to lateral line; 12 scales before dorsal; width 

 of head 2 in its length ; snout about 4^ ; eye 3| ; maxillary 4^ ; interorbital 

 space about 5; least depth of caudal peduncle 2J; length of depressed 

 dorsal about 4; lower caudal lobe (damaged) about 4; pectoral 4^; 

 ventral 5; depressed anal Sf. Edges of trunk rounded. Gill-opening 

 extending about opposite posterior margin of orbit. Rakers about 

 5-1-7, short, lanceolate and rather well separated. Filaments a little 

 less than vertical diameter of orbit. Isthmus a little broad and tri- 

 angular. \'ent about first * in space between origins of ventrals and 

 anals. Color in alcohol brownish, rather pale, especially below, and 

 side with silverj^ reflections. Each scale of back with darker brown 

 edge than shade of body-color. About 8 indistinct brownish trans- 

 verse bars. Fins pale brownish, shaded with darker, anal and ventral 

 a little lighter. Iris pale brownish. Length 2^^ inches (caudal 

 damaged). Tjrpe. The other example agrees. 



This species is most closely related to C. steindachneri Cope, but 

 differs chiefly in the slightly larger eye and more slender body. 



The main character advanced for the nominal genus Chorimyderus, 

 i.e., the presence of biserial maiulibular teeth, is entirely fallacious, as 

 both of the cotypes before me have but a single series in the mandible. 

 It is therefore a synonj-m of Characidium. 

 22 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Subgenus RHYTIODUS Kner. 



Scales small, SO to 90 or more in a lateral series. 

 Ehytiodus miorolepis Kner. 



Head 4f ; depth SJ; D. ii, 10, i; A. ii, 8, i; scales 77 in a lateral series 

 to base of caudal, and 8 more on latter; 12 scales obliquely back from 

 origin of dorsal to lateral line; 9 scales obliquely up posteriorly from 

 origin of ventral to lateral line; 8 scales from origin of ventral in a 

 similar way; about 23? (squamation damaged) scales before dorsal; 

 snout 2f in head; eye 5; interorbital space 2; pectoral 11; ventral 1^; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f . Small short slender weak gill- 

 rakers developed on outer edge of first arch. Pebas, Equador. Prof. 

 J. Orton. CoU. 1873-77. Prof. E. D. Cope. 



GARMANINA subgen. nov. 

 TjTJe Rhyttodtis argenteo-fuscus Kner. 

 Restricted to those species of Rhytiodus Kner with large scales, 

 about 50 to 60 in a lateral series. 



(Named for Prof. Samuel Garman, of Cambridge, Mass., author of 

 many excellent contributions to Ichthyology.) 



Ehytiodus argenteo-fusous Kner. 



Schizodon Sagittarius Cope, Proc. Anier. Philos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1877-78 

 (May 17, 1878), p. 689. No. 21,474, A. N. S. P., type. Peruvian 

 Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. of 1877. 



Head 4|; depth 5^; D. iii, 10; A. iii, 8; scales 47 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal, and 5 more on latter; 7 scales obliquely back from 

 origis of dorsal to lateral line; 4 scales obliquely back from origin of 

 adipose fin to lateral line; 6 scales obliquely up from origin of anal to 

 lateral line; about 16 scales before dorsal; width of head 1| in its 

 length; depth of head over middle of orbit 2f ; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 3; pectoral H; ventral 1^; depressed dorsal 4^; foiu-th anal 

 ray If ; snout 2f in head measiu-ed from tip of upper jaw ; eye about 4^ ; 

 interorbital space 2^. Body tapering evenly back from opposite 

 origins of dorsal and ventral. Predorsal region with an obtuse median 

 keel. Postdorsal region flattened. Preventral region rounded, except 

 region right at bases and just before ventrals, which is flattened. Post- 

 ventral region apparently rather rounded. Least depth of caudal 

 peduncle about half its length. Head depressed above and below 

 anteriorly, and with convex sm'face. Snout broad, rounded when 

 viewed above. Width of mouth about f of orbit. Teeth broadly 

 expanded or compressed. ^Maxillary reaching about to posterior nos- 

 tril. Anterior nostril in a short tube. Interorbital space broadly 

 convex. Gill-opening extending forward about opposite last fourth in 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



head. Bakers short, not numerous and weak. Filaments equal orbit. 

 Isthmus broad and convex. Scales non-striate. Ventral scaly flap 

 i of fin. Pectoral reaching j of space to ventral, and ventral f to 

 anal. Vent close in front of anal. Color in alcohol brownish, upper f 

 of body darker and sharply demarcated from lower or whitish surface, 

 and former color extending well below lateral line. Dorsal and caudal 

 brownish, especially middle of each lobe of latter. Pectoral, ventral 

 and anal pale brownish, especially latter. Line of demarcation on 

 sides pronounced by a longitudinal lateral band extending from tip of 

 snout to base of caudal. Iris brownish. Length 6f inches. 



Prof. Carman's view that this is the yoimg of R. argenteo-fiiscus Kner 

 is fully established, as I find that the mandible has S teeth rather than 

 6 as stated by Cope. 



Leporellus vittatus (Valenciennes). 



Leporinus vittatus Cope, Proc. .\iner. Philos. Soc. Phila., X'S'II, 1877-78 

 (May 17, 1878), p. 690. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. of 

 1S77. 



Head 3f ; depth Sf; D. iii, 10, i; A. iii, 8; P. ii, 16; V. ii. 8; scales 

 37? (squamation injured) in lateral line to base of caudal, and 5? 

 more on latter; 5 scales obliquely back from origin of dorsal to lateral 

 line; 4 scales obliquely up posteriorly from origin of ventral to lateral 

 line; 14? scales (squamation injured) before dorsal; snout 2i in head; 

 eye 4; interorbital space 2^; least depth of caudal peduncle 3. Gill- 

 rakers short weak fleshy processes. Color in alcohol with back sharply 

 defined from that of band running along lateral line, which is also well 

 defined and dark. A narrow line on flank, well below lateral line, 

 extending from base of pectoral to origin of anal. Top of head with 

 indistinct brownish spots. Dorsal blackish with a broad transverse 

 whitish band below middle. Length 2f inches. 



Castelnau figures Leporinus vittatus Valenciennes, which will be seen 

 to differ at once in the coloration. It shows each scale of the back 

 marked with a single black spot and the dorsal crossed by a blackish 

 transverse band a little above its middle. The side of the head is 

 spotted, and there are also no traces on the trunk of the dark contrasted 

 color-pattern which my example now shows. Kner's figure of Leporinus 

 pictus agrees better, and though it difi'ers according to the figure in 

 having a pale dorsal marked above and in front with a dark blotch, 

 another or basal one is mentioned in the description. The figure 

 also shows no trace of the lower dusky line seen on my example, 

 which extends from the pectoral to the anal. Dr. Steindachner 

 records a large example from Cauca which had both dorsal and anal 

 fins marked with blackish bands. 




32S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Leporinus fasoiatui (Bloch). 



Head 3i; depth 2|; D. iii, 10, i; A. iii, S, i; scales 34 in lateral line 

 to base of caudal, and 5 more on latter; 6 scales obliquely back from 

 origin of dorsal to lateral line; 5 scales obliquely up from origin of 

 ventral to lateral line; 5 scales obliquely forward from origin of anal to 

 lateral line; 12 scales before dorsal; snout 2t in head; eye 4J; inter- 

 orbital space 2 J ; pectoral If ; ventral 1* ; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 2^. Middle of orbit a little anterior in head. Rakers 5 + S, denticle- 

 like, compressed and weak. Predorsal and postdorsal regions rounded. 

 Very slight lateral keel on each side of postventral region, and also one 

 on each side of preventral region, iledian line of both these areas also 

 with a slight keel, that of latter most pronounced. In coloration it 

 agrees largely with Bloch's figure. The occipital band is broader. 

 First band on trunk forking above, second inclined to base of pectoral, 

 sixth also forked above and extending towards origin of anal, seventh 

 from base of adipose fin to bases of last anal rays, and last or ninth 

 in form of large blotch at base of caudal. An indistinct brownish bar 

 about opposite middle of pectoral and a blotch near its tip or above 

 base of ventral. Traces of two transverse caudal bands. Length oj 

 inches (caudal damaged). Rio Parahyba, Brazil, iluseum of Com- 

 parative Zoolog}', Massachusetts. One example. 



Leporinus friderici (Bloch). 



Leporinus frederici Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1S69-70 



(August 19. lS70),p. 566. Pebas. Eastern Peru. John Hauxwell. 



Cope, I.e.. XVII, 1S77-7S (May 17, 1878), p. 690. PeruWan Amazon. 

 Prof. J. Orton. 



Head 3 J to 3}; depth 3^ to of; D. ii or iii, 10. i; A. in, 8, i; scales 

 33 to 35 in lateral line to base of caudal, and usually 4 more on latter; 

 11 to 13 scales before dorsal; 5 scales in an oblique series back from 

 origin of dorsal to lateral line; 5 scales obliqueh- forward from origin 

 of ventral to lateral line; 5 scales obliquel}' forward from origin of anal 

 to lateral line; snout 2f to 3 in head; eye 3f to 4f ; interorbital space 

 2 to 2^. Gill-rakers slender short denticles usuallj- a little bent distally . 

 and about 20? on first arch. Color in alcohol very dark, Ijase of each 

 scale darker than other portion, antl line of demarcation ver}' distinct, 

 so that an imbricated appearance is assumed. In smaller examples 

 pectoral approaches nearer ventral than in adults. Total length of 7 

 examples 3^ to 9 inches. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. 

 of 1877. 



Two examples from Pebas. John Hauxwell. Both show about 

 same number of scales as preceding. The smaller one has the dark 

 lateral blotches more or less confluent posteriorly, as described by Dr. 

 Giinther. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



329 



The above specific name is restored in the original, for in all cases 

 Bloch spelled it exactly as above. 



Leporinus multifasoiatus Cope. Fig. 19. 



Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 690. 

 Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Leporinus megalepis Cope, I.e., XI, 1869-70 (May 19, 1870), p. 566. Para. 



De Schulte Buckow. Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), 



p. 259. Ambyiacu River, Equador. John Hauxwell. 



The cotypes of L. muliifascicitus, Nos. 21,448 (type) to 21,450, A. N. 



S. P., are in very poor condition, though they appear to be identical 



with the other material. The largest shows: Head 3^; depth 3f ; D. 



II, 10; A. IV, 8; width of head 2 in its length ; depth of head over middle 



of orbit 2; snout 3 in head from tip of upper jaw; eye 3^; interorbital 



space 2^; least depth of caudal peduncle 2^. Though dark lateral 



blotches are not present they may have faded. Length of type 2^ 



inches. 



Fig. 19. — l^eporiiius mullifasciatus Cope. 



The example from Para has very indistinct bands on the back and a 

 rather long pectoral. 



The largest of the Hauxwell examples shows : Head SJ ; depth 3 ; 

 D. Ill, 10, i; A. Ill, 8, i; scales 33 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 4 

 more on latter; 5 scales obliquely back from origin of dorsal to lateral 

 line; 4 scales obliquely up from origin of anal to lateral line; 10 scales 

 before dorsal; width of head lyf in its length; third dorsal ray IJ; third 

 anal ray If; pectoral 1 % ; ventral H; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ' 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



snout 2f in head from tip of upper jaw; eye of; maxillarj' 44; inter- 

 orbital space 2i- : upper caudal lobe nearly 3 in head and trunk. Pre- 

 dorsal region rounded at first and posteriori}' with a median keel ex- 

 tending to dorsal fin. Postdorsal region rounded, also preventral 

 region. Postventral region with a median obscure keel. Head broad, 

 depressed in front, rounded below and sides somewhat compressed. 

 Snout when ^■iewed above broad and triangular ^nth rounded tip. 

 Width of mouth about f of orbit. Maxillary about half way in snout, 

 lips fleshy. Teeth S in each jaw, anterior largest, and 2 median 

 mandibulars especially conspicuous. Tongue rather far back, narrow, 

 and not free. Interorbital space broadly convex. Gill-opening ex- 

 tending forward about first third in head. Rakers 10 + 14?, short, 

 lanceolate, and longest about half of longest filaments which are f of 

 orbit. Vent close in front of anal. Color in alcohol faded brownish, 

 a little darker on back and upper surface. About 14 indistinct bars 

 of deeper brownish than body-color across back, and each one 

 also narrower than pale interspace. In some cases they become 

 faded altogether on side, and frequently indistinct traces occiu: below. 

 Three blotches of deep brownish, larger than eye, along middle of side. 

 First blotch midway in length of trunk, and second midway between it 

 and third, which is on base of caudal. Dorsal, caudal and pectoral 

 pale, and anal and ventral dusky or deep brown. Iris brown. Teeth 

 warm brownish marginally. Length 4| inches. Identified with L. 

 megalepis Giinther, but that species is said to have the body with large 

 blackish spots arranged in 2 or 3 series. 



Leporinus holostictus Cope. Fig. 20. 



Cope, Proc. .\mer. Pliilos. Soc. Pliila., XMI, 1877-78 (ilav'17, 1878), p. 

 690. Nos. 21,467 (t-siDe) and 21,468, A. N. S. P., cotj-pes. Permian 

 Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. of 1877. 



Width of head 2^ in its length; interorbital space 2^. Predorsal, 

 postdorsal and preventral regions rounded. Postventral region with 

 an obsolete median keel, and another on each side. Snout broad and 

 triangular seen from above. Lips fleshy. Teeth 8 in each jaw, 

 anterior ones largest, and 2 median mandibulars conspicuous. Tongue 

 rather far back, narrow and not free. Interorbital space broadly 

 convex. Gill-opening extending forward about last fomih in length 

 of head. Rakers 5-1- 11?, short, lanceolate, and longest about f of 

 longest filaments, which are | of orbit. Scales non-striate. Color in 

 alcohol brownish, and lower sm-face paler or whitish. Body with 10 

 broad transverse bands as wide as interspaces. First includes or 

 extends over snout, second over interorbital space, third on occiput. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



331 



fourth on middle of predorsal region, fiftli just before dorsal, sixtli 

 vertically across dorsal so that its posterior margin is even with last 

 ray and then down till behind ventral, seventh on postdorsal region 

 anteriorly, eighth on postdorsal region posteriorly till down just in 

 front of anal, ninth beliind adipose fin and continued transversely 



Fig. 20. — Leporinue holosticlus Cope. 



across anal, and tenth at base of caudal. Fins otherwise all more or 

 less unmarked, except posterior margin of caudal which is dusky. 

 Iris brownish. Length 4J inches (caudal damaged). Tj'pe. The 

 other example shows the depth as 3J. 



ABRAMITES gen.'nov. 

 Type Leporinus hypselonotus Giinther. 



Closely related to Leporinus Agassiz, but distinguished by tlie larger 

 anal basis. 



{Abramites, from Abramis, Bresma and Prasmus, old names applied 

 to Brama brama or the common European bream. The reference is to 

 the superficial appearance.) 



Abramites hypselonotus (Gunther). 



Leporinus hypselonotus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. See. Phila.. X\T[I, 1877-78 

 (May 17 1878), p. 690. Peru\-ian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. of 



1877. 



Head 3f; depth 2}; D. in, 10; A. in, 12, i; scales 34 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal, and 4 more on latter; snout 3^ in head from tip of upper 

 jaw; eye 3; interorbital space 2f. Length 2i| inches. 



Dr. Giinther's excellent figiu-e largely agrees, though my example 



.. 




332 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



shows traces of an interorbital band and a nuchal one extending down 

 just behind opercle. 



TETRAGONOPTERIN^. 



Cheirodon monodon (Cope). 



Chirodon 7uonocIon Cope, Proc. Amer. PMos. Soc. Phila., XXXIII, 1894 

 (January 5), p. 91, Pi. 6, fig. 9. Nos. 21,561 (tj^pe) and 21,562, A. X. S. 

 P., cotypes. Brazilian province of Rio Grande do Sul. H. H. Smith. 



Edge of back rounded, except a Uttle before spinous dorsal and upper 

 surface of caudal peduncle where it is a little trenchant. Belly rounded. 

 Postventral region and lower siu-face of caudal peduncle a little trench- 

 ant. Each ramus of mandible elevate<:l a little inside mouth. Tongue 

 rather large, flattened, moderately broad and free in front. Inter- 

 orbital space convex. GUI-opening extending forward nearly opposite 

 anterior margin of orbit. Rakers 12 4- 12 on first arch, lanceolate, 

 and longest a little shorter than filaments, which are a little longer than 

 pupil. Isthmus narrowly triangular. Vent close in front of anal. 

 Color in alcohol pale brownish, back a little darker than lower surface, 

 and body ever\'T\-here more or less silvered. A pale or dull leaden- 

 brassy streak from above eye back to caudal. Fins all pale or immacu- 

 late brownish. Iris dull silvery. Length l|f inches. Type. 



Fig. 21. — Cheirodon pulchcr (Steindachner). 



Cheirodon pulcher (Steindachner). Fig. 21. 



Tetragonopterus diaphanus Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Pliila., XVII, 

 1877-7S (>Iay 17, 1S7S), p. 691. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 

 (Part.) 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



333 



Edges of body but little trenchant, or only upper and lower surfaces 

 of cautlal peduncle and postventral region. Rami of mandible well 

 elevated inside mouth. Rakers 10 + 14 on fu-st arch, lanceolate, 

 and longest about length of filaments which are § of orbit. Scales non- 

 striate. Color in alcohol brownish, back darker and lower surface 

 paler, washed everywhere with more or less silvery. A dull leaden 

 streak, a little high, from below dorsal to caudal and then continued 

 out on its middle rays as dusky. Fins otherwise all dull brownish. 

 Iris dull brassy. Length IJ inches. 



Two examples, wrongly identified by Cope with Astyanax dtaphanus. 



Aphyocharaz pasillus Giinther. Fig. 22. 



Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S71 (1872), p. 260. .^mbjaacu River, 



Eastern Equador. John Hauxwell. Cope, Proc. Amer. PMlos. Soc. 



Phila., XVII, 1S77-7S (May 17, 1S78), p. 6S9. Peruvian Amazon. 

 Prof. J. Orton. 



Interorbital space 2^ in head. Snout convex. Rami of mandible 

 but little elevated inside of mouth. Tongue a little elongate, fleshy 

 and free in front. Interorbital space broad and a little convex. Gill- 

 openings extending forward till nearly opposite front margin of pupil. 



4 



^ 



//. y^' 





Fig. 22. — Aphyocharax pusillus Giinther. 



Rakers 7 + 8, short, pointed, and much less than filaments. Isthnuis 

 narrow and with median groove. Each scale with 2 or 3 striae. Color 

 in alcohol brown, sides paler, and body more or less brassy. Fins 

 brownish, median caudal rays dusky. Iris brownish. Length 2y\ 

 inches. Peruvian Amazon. Orton. Coll. of 1873. 




334 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Three examples from the Ambyiacu in the Hauxwell Coll. Head 

 3f to 31; depth 3^ to 4; D. ii, 9; A. in or iv, 16, i to IS, i; scales 32 

 to 34 in lateral line (squamation mostly injured) to base of caudal, and 

 2 more on latter; total length 2 to 2-^ inches. 



Aphyocharax filigerus Cope. Fig. 23. 



Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70 (August 19, 1870), p. .564. 

 Nos. 8,059 (type) and 8,073, A. N. S. P., cotypes. Pebas, Eastern Equador. 

 Jolm Hauxwell. 



Interorbital space 3 in head. Edges of trunk apparently more or 



less rounded. Rami of mandible hardly elevated inside mouth. 



Tongue a little long, narrow and free in front. Interorbital space 



elevated convexly. Gill-openings carried forward about first f of 





Fig. 23. — Aphyocharax filigerus Cope. 



orbit. Rakers 7 + 10, lanceolate, and apparently longer than longest 

 filaments or a little longer than half of orbit. Isthmus narrow. Color 

 in alcohol faded dull brownish, and fins pale, though median caudal 

 rays a little paler than rest of fin. Iris brownish. Length 2{ inches 

 (caudal damaged). Type. Taken from the stomach of a silm-oid. 



Diapoma speouliferum Cope. 



Amer. Nat., XXVIII, 1894, p. 67. No. 21,580, A. N. S. P., type. Upper 

 waters of the Jacuhy River in Brazilian State of Rio Grande do Sul. 



H. H. Smith. Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Pliila., XXXIII, 1894 



(January 5), p. 92, PI. 5, fig. 4, from tj'pe. 



Edge of back rounded. Upper and lower edges of caudal peduncle 

 trenchant. Chest with a median rounded ridge. Postventral region 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



trenchant. Snout convex. Tongue small, a little back, narrow, and 

 a little free. Interorbital .space narrowly convex. Gill-opening car- 

 ried forward nearly oppo.site anterior margin of orbit. Rakers 6 + 12?, 

 slender, fine, longest a little longer than filaments and also present on 

 lower portion of external arch. Isthmus rather broadly triangular. 

 Scales striate. Yent close in front of anal. Color in alcohol more or 

 less brownish, back more browTi than lower surface and bod}' with 

 silver}' wash. A leaden lateral streak from head opposite eye straight 

 to base of caudal. Fins plain pale brownish. Eye brassy. Length 

 1^^ inches. 



Cope was entirely mistaken when stating that the inferior limb of 

 the external branchial arches was without rakers. 



Hemigrammas sohmardee (Steiadachner). 



Head 3; depth 2f ; D. iii, 9; A. iv, 21?; about 30? scales in a lateral 

 count from gUl-opening to caudal, including those on latter; snout 4^ 

 in head, measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 2^; maxillary 2f ; inter- 

 orbital space 3. Color in alcohol brownish, scales fallen leaving a 

 narrow silver}' lateral band extending from shoulder to base of caudal. 

 No blackish blotch at base of caudal, which while a little darker than 

 rest of fin is not darker than pedimcle. These conditions may all be 

 due to the preservative. Length If inches. A single small example 

 in poor condition from the Peruvian Amazon. Coll. Prof. J. Orton. 



Hemigrammas interraptug (Lutken). 



Hemigrammus hietkenii Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Pliila., XXXIII, 1894 

 (January 5), p. 91. In the Jacuhy (Brazilian pro\-ince of Rio Grande do 

 Sul). H. H. Smith. 



The large series from the Jacuhy, Brazilian province of Rio Grande 



do Sul. and collected by H. H. Smith, shows: Head 3 to 3f; depth 2^ to 



2J; D. Ill, 9; A. iv or v, 18, i to 22, i, usually with 21, occasionally 22, 



sometimes 18, and rarely 20; scales 30 to 33 in lateral line to base of 



caudal, 2 or 3 more on latter, former count usually 33, frequently 32 



or 31, and rarely 30; 11 or 12 scales in a transverse series obliquely 



back from origin of dorsal; 12 or 13 scales before dorsal; eye 2i to 3 in 



head, measured from tip of upper jaw; length of specimens If to 3 



inches. Gill-rakers about 8 + 14. 



Hemigrammns robustnlns Cope. Fig. 24. 



Proc. .\mer. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70 (.\ugust 17, 1870), p. 561- 

 Xos. 8,037 (t\'pe) to 8,052, A. X. S. P., cot%-pes. Pebas, Equador. John 

 HauxweU. — ^ope, I.e.. XVII, 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 690. Permian 

 .\mazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Body strongly compressed. Rami of mandible but Uttle elevated 

 inside mouth. Tongue rather flat, rounded, compressed and a little 




336 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



free. Interorbital space rather broad and a little convex. Gill-open- 

 ing extending forward to anterior margin of pupil. Rakers about a 

 dozen? on lower outer limb of first arch. Filaments short. Isthmus 

 narrow. Scales striate. Color in alcohol pale or dull brown, abdominal 

 region and lower surface of head paler. Flanks also tinted with a 

 livid grayish or dull slaty hue. A streak of slaty, diffuse and indis- 

 tinct at first, extending along side of caudal peduncle and then con- 

 tinued out on median caudal rays as a blackish band. A dusky diffuse 

 humeral blotch about size of orbit. Fins otherwise mostly uniform 

 dull brownish. Muzzle deep brownish and front of mandible same. 



Fig. 24. — Hcmigranunus robustulus Cope. 



Spots or specks on cheek indistinct. Iris dusky-coppery. Length 2 

 inches (caudal damaged). Type. 



The other cotypes range as follows: Head 2f to 3J; depth 2 to 2f; 

 D. 11, 9; A. Ill, 23 to in, 29, i; scales 27 to 32 (squamation mostly 

 injured) ; total length H to 2 inches. 



Other examples in the Hauxwell Coll. 



Astyanax lepidurus (Kner). 



Tetragonoplerus lepidurus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Pliila., XI, 1S69-70 

 (August 19, 1870), p. 566. Para. Mr. De Schulte Buckow. 



Head 3i; depth 3f ?; D. in, 9 ; A. iii, 21 ?; scales (according to pockets) 




1906.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



337 



about 33? in a lateral series to base of caudal; 9? scales between dorsal 

 and ventral; snout 4 in head, measured from tip of upper jaw; ej'e 2f ; 

 maxillary 2^; interorbital space 3^; least depth of caudal peduncle 3. 

 ^Maxillary toothless and extending posteriorly a little bej-ond front 

 rim of orbit, not to pupil. Rakers 10 + 16?, long, slender, and longest 

 nearl}^ as long as longest filaments. Scales large, mostl}- all fallen, and 

 in alcohol leaving a narrow silvery band broadening out on posterior 

 I of its com-se till about equal to diameter of pupil. No evidence of 

 humeral or caudal blotches. Median caudal rays dusky, also tips of 

 upper and lower lobes. Length If inches. This example was received 

 from Cope, and is most likeh' the one referred to above. 



Astyanax ipanquianus (Cope). Fig. 25. 



Tetragonopterus ipanquianxis Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Pliila.. XVII, 

 1877-7S (May 4. 1S7S). p. 44. Xos. 21,114 (t\-pe) aud 21,115, A. X. S. P., 

 cot}T3es. The upper waters of the Urubamba, one of the sources of the 

 Ucajale. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. of 1S76-77. Cope, I.e., p. 692. Uru- 

 bamba River; elevation 11, .500 feet. Prof. J. Orton. 



*te^fii: 



"i/tf--^ 



Fig. 25. — Astyanax ipanquianus (Cope). 



Body compressed, and edges rounded. Snout convex. Rami of 

 mandible not elevated inside mouth. Lips thin. Tongue fleshy, 

 broad, rotmded in front and hardly free from floor of mouth. Inter- 

 orbital space convex. Gill-opening extending forward about opposite 

 anterior nostril. Rakers 9-1-11, lanceolate, short, and longest a 

 little less than half length of longest filaments. Filaments f an eye- 




338 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



diameter. Isthmus long and narrowly triangular. Each scale with 

 a number of stria?. Color in alcohol dull brassy-brown with silvery 

 reflections, back slightly more brownish with a leaden tint. A humeral 

 blotch of grayish about equal to orbit in size. Top of head brownish. 

 Fins pale brownish, dorsal and caudal a trifle darker than others. 

 Iris didl brassy-brown. Length (caudal slightly damaged) 5 inches. 

 Type. 



The other examples, including those later reported by Cope, show: 

 Head 3^ to 4; depth 3 to 3|; D. ii, 8; A. in or iv, 23, i to 27, i; scales 

 about 50? (squamation damaged) to 55 in lateral line to base of caudal, 

 and 2 or 3 on latter; 23 to 25 scales before dorsal; 11 scales in an 

 oblique series back from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 8 or 9 scales in 

 a vertical series between lateral line and origin of anal; eye 3\ to 4 in 

 head ; total length 2^ to 4f inches. 



Astyanax phoenioopterus (Cope). Fig. 26. 



Tetragonopterus phcenicopterus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), 

 p. 261. Nos. 8,093 (t>-pe) to 8,128, A. N. S. P., cotypes. Amb3-iacu 

 River, Equador. John Hauxwell. 



Ciill-opening extending forward about opposite anterior margin of 



Fig. 2G. — Aslt/anax pliosnicupleruti tC'ope). 



pupil. Rakers small and inconspicuous, about 7? on lower part of 

 first arch. Filaments short. Isthmus compressed and narrow. 

 Color in alcohol dull brown, more or less silvery. Side of head silvery. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



339 



Lower surface of body pale brown, and peritoneum showing through 

 pale. A dusky humeral and caudal spot. Fins and iris pale brownish. 

 Length (caudal damaged) 2J inches. Type. 



The other cotypes vary as follows : Head 2^^ to 4, usually a little less 

 than 4; depth 3 to 3f ; D. iii, 8, rarely in, 7; A. iv, 21 to 26, and fre- 

 quently I, branched rays frequently 25; scales 30 to 35 (squamation 

 damaged); total length H to 2J inches. 



Astyanax diaphanus (Cope). Fig. 2". 



Tetragonopterus diaphanus Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 

 1877-7S (May 17, 1878), p. 691. Nos. 21,216 (type) to 21,218, A. N. S. P., 

 cotj'pes. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. of 1874. 



Predorsal region with an obsolete median keel, and postdorsal region 

 roimded. Preventral region rounded and postventral region trench- 

 ant. Rakers 7 -I- 10, slender, lanceolate, and longest a trifle more 

 than longest filaments w'hich are about equal to diameter of pupil. 

 Isthmus narrowly triangular. Color in alcohol dull brownish, more or 

 less brassy, and especially broad band from eye to base of caudal. 

 Fins all dull brownish. Iris brownish-yellow. Length 2^ inches. 

 TjTJe. 



Aslyarjax diaphanus (Cope). 



The other examples show: Head 3f to 4; depth 3i to 3^; D. ii, 8; 

 A. Ill, 17, I to 22, i; scales 33 in lateral line to base of caudal and 3 

 more on latter; usually 4 scales in a vertical series between origin of 

 anal and lateral line ; eye 2i to 2f in head ; length about 2 inches with 

 damaged caudals. 




340 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Astyanax lianxwelliaiiua (Cope). Fig. 2S. 



Tetragonopterus hauxiceUianus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Pliila., XI, 

 1869-70 (August 19, 1S70), p. 500. Nos. 8,137 {iype) to 8,142, A. N. S. 



P., cotypes. Pebas, Equador. John Hauxwell. Cope, I.e., XVII, 



1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 691. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 

 CoU. of 1873." 



Gill-opening extending forward about opposite front of eye. Rakers 

 10? on lower part of first arch. Filaments a little longer than longest 

 rakers. Isthmus compressed and narrow. Color in alcohol faded to 

 dark brown, lower surface paler. Fins all brownish. A dusky blotch 

 at base of caudal and a similar shade in humeral region. Iris brass5^ 

 Length 2^^ inches (caudal damaged). T.ype. 





^JOXA-; 



Fig. 2S. — Astyanax hauxwellianus (Cope). 



ViThe other cotypes show: Head 3 J to 3j; depth 2 to 2f ; D. usually 

 III, 9, sometimes iii, S or iii, 10; A. usually iv, 40?, sometimes iv, 41?; 

 total length Iff to 2^ inches. The distinct lateral silveiy band 

 mentioned by Cope is now hardly evident. 



.\lso 59 examples from the Orton Coll. of 1873, Peruvian Amazon, 

 and an example from Robert Perkins, from between the mouth of the 

 Rio Negro and the Peruvian Amazon. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



341 



Astyanax peotinatns (Cope). Fig. 29. 



Tetragonopterus pedinatus Cope, Prop. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1S69-70 

 (August 19, 1S70), p. 560. No. 8,090, A. N. S. P., tj-pe. Pebas, Equador. 

 John Hauxwell. 



Gill-opening extending forward about anterior third of orbit. 



Rakers about 6 + 9, slender, lanceolate, and less than filaments which 



are about half of orbit. Isthmus narrow and compressed. Scales 



Fig. 29. — Antyanax pectinatus (Cope). 



without strise. Color in alcohol with fins and body nearly uniform 

 brownish, former paler. Body more or less washed with silvery. Iris 

 brassy-brown. Traces of a humeral blotch, though indistinct. Length 

 If inches (caudal damaged). 



Astyanax longior (Cope). Fig. 30. 



Tetragonopterus longior Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Pliila., XVII, 1877-78 

 (May 17, 1878), p. 691. Nos. 21,222 (type) and 21,223, A. N. S. P., 

 cotypes. Moyabamba. Prof. J. Orton. toU. 1874. 



Predorsal region with a median obsolete keel and postventral region 

 apparently trenchant, edges of body otherwise roimded. Gill-opening 

 forward till about opposite front of eye. Rakers 9+11, lanceolate, 

 and longest about f of filaments, which are f of orbit. Isthmus nar- 

 rowly triangular. Each scale with several radiating strise. Color in 

 alcohol faded dull brownish, and back darker than silvered sides. A 

 broad silver line, separating color of back from that of lower surface, 

 extending from shoulder to base of caudal. Humeral blotch roimded 

 23 




342 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



and a little longer than pupil. Fins all brownish. Iris browTiish with 

 rosy tint. Length 3f inches (caudal damaged). Tj-pe. 



Cope's description would give the depth of the body 4y"^ in its length 

 without the caudal, while in the above example it is but 2 J. The head 

 is said to be 4^, while the above example shows it about 3f . He gives 



Fig. 30. — Astyanax longior (Cope). 



the eye 3i in the head, though the interorbital width is much less than 

 lyTTir ^^ ^'^6 ^ys- ^^ f^^^t but little less than the orbit itself. Both 

 examples have Cope's original label. 



Astyanax maximus (Steindachner). 



Tetragonopterus sp. iiviet. Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Pliila., X^^I. 

 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 691. Peru\-iati Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 

 Coll. 1873. 



Head 3t to 4 ; depth 2f to 2^; D. i, 9 ; A. iv, 28. i to 29, i ; scales 34 to 

 35 in lateral line to base of caudal and 2? more on latter; 7 scales in an 

 oblique series back between origin of dorsal and lateral line ; 7 scales 

 from base of ventral to lateral line; 7 or S scales in a vertical series 

 between origin of anal and lateral line; 17 scales before dorsal ; pectoral 

 a trifle less than head; ventral li to lA; snout 3^^ to 4 in head, from tip 

 of upper jaw; eye about 3; interorbital space 2f ; length of larger 

 example with damaged caudal 4f inches. Rakers 10 + 16, lanceolate, 

 slender, longest but little shorter than filaments which are about j 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



343 



diameter of eye. Pectoral reaches well beyond base of anal. Color 

 in alcohol nearly plain brassy-brown, back a little darker, and caudal 

 with a brownish streak from base out to ends of median rays. No 

 evidence of a humeral blotch. 



Astyanax cauoanus (Steindachner). 



Head 3f ; depth 2f ; D. ii, 9; A. iv, 42; scales (according to pockets) 

 about 38 in lateral line to base of caudal; pectoral about 1^ in head; 

 ventral If; snout about 4f in head, measured from tip of upper jaw; 

 eye 3 ; maxillary 3 ; interorbital space 2| ; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 about 3. A few small teeth at base of maxillary inside. Rakers about 

 7 + 12?, and longest about f of longest filaments. In alcohol brown- 

 ish, fins paler than body-color, and a silvery band, widest on supra- 

 costal region, from shoulder to base of caudal where it terminates in a 

 brownish spot. A brownish blotch on shoulder at origin of silvered 

 lateral streak. Iris silvered brownish. Length 2y^^ inches. One 

 example from Paramaribo. Dr. Hering. 



Astyanax bartlettii (Gunther). Fig. 31. 



Tetragonopterus barllettii Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1S71 (1S72), p. 

 260. Ambyiacu River, Equador. John Hauxwell. 



Predorsal region with a median keel, rather obtuse, and postventral 



Fig. 31. — Astyanax bartlettii (Gunther) 




344 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



region but little trenchant, edges of body otherwise rounded. Gill- 

 opening extending forward a trifle before front rim of pupil. Rakers 

 about 10 + 14, slender, lanceolate, longest about f of longest fila- 

 ments and apparently rather weak. Filaments about f of orbit. A 

 few strife on each scale. Color in alcohol nearly uniform dull brownish, 

 back a little darker and line of demarcation about level with upper 

 margin of orbit distinct. A grayish elongate humeral blotch , most likely 

 much faded, and in length nearly equal to diameter of eye. Base of 

 caudal brownish and this color also extending out on median caudal 

 rays. Fins otherwise all pale brownish. Iris brassy-brown. Length 

 ii inches. Two examples. 



Astyanax finitimus (Vaillant and Pellegrin). Fig. 32. 



Predorsal region with a low median keel and one also on postventral, 

 other edges of body rounded. Gill-opening not quite reaching front of 

 orbit. Rakers 8 -I- 13, lanceolate, longest about f of filaments and 



Fig. 32. — Astyanax pnitiinus (Vaillant and PeUegrin). 



latter about f of orbit. Isthmus a little broadly triangular. Each 

 scale with several radiating striae. Color in alcohol brownish, back 

 deeper and this color sharply separated from that of lower surface by a 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



broad silvery band from shovilder to caudal, where it becomes deep 

 brown or dusky and extends out on median caudal rays. A dusky 

 humeral blotch a little larger than pupil. Lower side and under por- 

 tions of body silvered. Fins pale brownish, dorsal and caudal a 

 trifle dusky. Iris brassy. Length 2-^ inches (caudal damaged). 

 Possibly from some part of Central America, most likely Nicaragua? 

 Dr. J. F. Bransford. Five examples. 



The others show: Head 3^ to 3^; depth 24 to SJ; D. iii, 9; A. in or 

 IV, 24? to 26, i; scales 36 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 2 more 

 on latter; 8 scales obliquely back from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 

 8 scales in a vertical series between lateral line and origin of anal ; eye 

 2* to 2* in head measured from tip of upper jaw; total length of speci- 

 mens Ij^ to 3^ inches (damaged caudals). The young examples are 

 more elongate and have larger eyes in proportion, though at all ages 

 the caudal and humeral blotches are evident. 



Although the name Tetragonopterus finitimus was originally proposed 

 by Bocourt {Ann. Sci. Nat. Paris, ZooL, 5, IX, 1868, p. 62), his account 

 is entirely too brief and imperfect to permit identification. Prof. 

 Vaillant and Dr. Pellegrin next describe examples from Guatemala 

 which they identify with this species and which seem to agree with 

 my own specimens. 



Astyanax mexioanus (Filippi). 



Tetragonopterus mexicanus Jordan and Snyder, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 



XIX, 1S99 (1901), p. 125. Rio Ixtla at Puente de Ixtla, Morelos. Profs. 



D. .S. Jordan and J. O. Snyder. 

 Tetragonopterus streetsii Cope, Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sei. Phila., 1871 (November 



28). p. 217. From the headwaters of the Coatzacalcos River among the 



Cordillera.s. Dr. T. Hale Streets. 

 Tetragonopterus argentatus Cope, Proc. .\mer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XXII, 1885 



(December 10, 1884), p. 168. In tlie city of Monterey. Prof. E. D. Cope. 



Jordan and Snvder, I.e., Rio Verde near Rascon. Fowler, Proc. 



.\c.ad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1904 (April 7), p. 248. Del Rio and De\-il's River, 



Texas. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



A very large series of examples of most all ages from Rio Ixtla at 

 Puente de Ixtla, Morelos, and Rio Verde near Rascon, Mexico. These 

 collected and presented by Profs. Jordan and Snyder. Also a large 

 series from ilonterey, Mexico, from Prof. E. D. Cope, and others from 

 the same evidently from Mexico. Others from Del Rio and Devil's river, 

 Texas, from Dr. H. A. Pilsbiy. All show the following: Head 3 to 4; 

 depth 2^ to 3§; D. iii, 9, though sometimes ii or in, 8, and rarely in, 

 10; A. Ill to IV, 17, I to 24, i, usually 21 or 20. frequently 19 or 22, 

 others with 23 and occasionally 24, though rarely 17 or 18; scales in 

 lateral line to base of caudal 32 to 37. and 2 or 3 more on latter, usually 

 35, frequently 34 or 36, and rarely 32, 33 or 37 ; 7 or 8 scales in an oblique 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June. 



series back from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 6 scales from base of 

 ventral in a vertical series to lateral line, sometimes 7, rarely 5, and 

 same between origin of anal and lateral line; 13 to 19 scales before 

 dorsal, usually 15 to 16, less frequently 14 or 17, and rarely 13, 18 or 

 19; eye 2 J to 3 J in head, measured from tip of upper jaw, larger 

 measurements in young; length of specimens ly^- to 4J inches. 



Astyanax wneus (Giinther) is a closely related species differing 

 chiefly in the absence of maxillary teeth, according to Dr. Meek's 

 account. The other characters are seen to be more or less correlated, 

 as several of my examples of A. mexicanus which possess as many as 24 

 developed or branched anal rays (would be 26 or 27 evidently according 

 to Dr. Meek's count) also have well-developed basal maxillary teeth. 



A number of examples, possibly cotypical of Tetragonopterus streetsii 

 Cope, have uncertain data. They are included in the above measure- 

 ments, and are Nos. 32,371 to 32,426, A. N. S. P. 

 Astyanax fasciatus (Cuvier). 



Tetragonopterus jasciatus Cope, Proe. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70 

 (August 19, 1870), p. 566. Para. Mr. De Schulte Buckow. 



Head 3^; depth 2f ; D. in, 9; A. iv, 26; scales 34 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal, and 3 more on latter; 6 scales in an obliquely vertical 

 series from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 6 scales in a nearly vertical 

 series from origin of ventral to lateral line; 14 scales before dorsal; 

 snout 4 in head, measured from tip of snout ; eye 3 ; interorbital space 2f ; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2^; pectoral 1^ in head, from tip of 

 mandible; ventral If. Several minute maxillary teeth. Rakers 

 about 9-1-15 on fii'st arch, those on ceratobranchial largest, though 

 shorter than filaments. Each scale of body with several stride. Pos- 

 terior distal extremity of maxillary extending back till opposite pupil. 

 Humeral and caudal spots pale. Rather broad pale or silvery band on 

 side of trunk evident. Iris brassy-brown and side of head silvery. 

 Length 2^ inches. One example. 



I accept the above name, as Dr. Giinther pointed out the inconsist- 

 encies of Cuvier's figiu-e and description, also when compared with 

 other accounts. The examples identified by Prof. Ulrey {Ann. N. Y. 

 Acad. Sci., VIII, 1893-95, p. 284) as Tetragonopterus fasciatus (Cuvier), 

 and credited to Dr. Eigemnann, with the developed anal rays 19 to 25, 

 would seem to indicate a rather imusual range of variation. 



Astyanax eigenmanniornm (Cope). 



Tetragonopterus eigenmanniorum Cope, Proe. Amer. Philos. Soc. Pliila., 

 XXXIII, 1894 (January 5), p. 89, PI. 6, fig. 8. Nos. 21,598 (type) to 

 21,602, and 21,627 and 21,628, A. N. S. P., cotypes. Brazilian province 

 of Rio Grande do Sul. H. H. Sniitli. 



Predorsal region with median keel. Apparently a low keel on each 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



side of preventral region. Postventral region trenchant and edges of 

 body otherwise rounded. Gill-opening extending forward a little 

 bej-ond front margin of pupil. Rakers 8 4-10? (damaged), slender, 

 pointed, and shorter than filaments. Isthmus narrow and compressed- 

 A few strise on each scale. Color in alcohol pale brownish, back darker 

 than lower surface and traces of a pale or silverj' band from eye to base 

 of caudal. An indistinct brownish humeral blotch and another at base 

 of caudal, also extending out on median raj'S of latter. Fins pale 

 brownish. Eyes silvered. Length 2jS'5- inches (caudal damaged). 

 Type. 



The other examples all show: Head 3i to 3i; depth 2* to 2f ; D. m, 

 9, rarely ii, 8; A. iv, 21, i or iv, 22, i, usually latter; scales 30 to 34 

 in lateral line to base of caudal and 2 or 3 on latter; 6 scales obliquely 

 back from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 5 or 6 scales from origin of 

 ventral to lateral line in a vertical series; 13 to 15 scales before dorsal, 

 usually 14 ; eye 2f to 2^ in head ; total length of examples 2 to 2f inches. 



This form has been united with Astyanax fasciatus (Cuvier) by Prof. 

 Ulrey. The above characters will show that it had at least best be 

 regarded as distinct, if only provisionalh\ Further, it may be stated 

 as differing principally from A. fasciatus in the fewer anal radii. All of 

 the above characters are also constant, and it is possible to separate 

 these specimens from those representing Astyanax laticeps, as Cope 

 rightly determined. I shall therefore be obliged to remove the latter 

 from the synonj'my of A. fasciatus, where it has also been placed by 

 Prof. Ulrey, as it differs principally in stLU fewer anal radii. Thus 

 from an examination of the material before me I shall refuse to con- 

 sider ^-1. cigeninanniorum and .4. laticeps either as variations of A. 

 fasciatus or in fact either as the same species. Finally Cope's descrip- 

 tion and figure of A. eigenmannioruvi may hardly be stj^led excellent, 

 much less that it leaves little doubt that the fish in question is simply 

 a variation of T. fasciatus. 



Astyanax iheringii (Boulenger). 



Telragonopterus pliodus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Plula., XXXIII, 

 1894 (January 5), p. 90, PI. .5, fig. 5. Nos. 21,57,8 (tj-pe) and 21,579, 

 A. X. S. P., cotj-pes. Brazilian pro\-ince of Rio Grande do Sul. H. H. 

 Smith. 



Predorsal region with median rounded ridge, and postventral trench- 

 ant, edges of body otherwise rounded. Gill-opening reaching front 

 of pupil. Rakers about 10 -1- 12, short, lanceolate, and longest about 

 J of longest filaments which are about equal to ^ of vertical orbital 

 diameter. Isthmus triangidar and rather broad. Each scale with 

 several radiating strise. Color in alcohol brownish, lower portion of 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF LJune, 



body, from level with upper edge of ej'e, silvery. A lateral silvered 

 streak from eye to caudal. Traces of a faint humeral and caudal 

 blotch. Dorsal and posterior edge of caudal brownish. Iris dull 

 orange. Length 2f| inches. Tj-pe of Tetragonopterus pliodus Cope. 



An example labelled Montevideo, Uruguay, received from Cope. 



Cope was evidently in error in stating that the humeral and caudal 

 spots were wanting, as even now the former is present though 

 indistinct, and the median caudal rays are darker than the rest of the 

 caudal fin. There is also a dull brownish shade at the base of the 

 caudal. Outer portions of dorsal, caudal and anal brownish, not 

 exactly "finely specked with black" as stated by Dr. Boulenger. 



Astyanax laticeps (Cope). 



Tetragonopterus laticeps Cope, Proc. .Ajner. Philos. Soc. Pliila., XXXIII. 

 1S94 (January 5), p. 89, PI. 6, fig. 7. Xos. 21,852 (t>-pe) to 21,863 and 

 21,743 to 21,747, A. N. S. P., cot\-pes. Brazilian pro\-ince of Rio Grande 

 do Sul. H. H. Smitli. 



Predorsal region with a median keel and postdorsal with an obsolete 

 median ridge with one on each side. Preventral region apparenth' 

 rounded. Postventral region with median keel. Gill-opening ex- 

 tending a little before front of pupil. Rakers 9 + 12, slender, pointed, 

 and a little less than longest filaments. Isthmus narrow and com- 

 pressed. Color in alcohol pale brownish, back darker than sides 

 and lower surface, and a silvery band from shoulder to base of caudal, 

 its width less than orbit. Body, especially lower surface and side of 

 head, more or less silvered. A rounded dusky hmiieral blotch, and a 

 dusky dash at base of caudal continued out on median rays of latter. 

 Fins plain pale brownish. Iris brassy with a plain pale brownish ring. 

 Length 2 J inches (caudal damaged). TjqDe. 



The other examples show: Head 2f to 3^; depth 2^ to 3; D. iii, 9; 

 A. IV, IS, I, rarely iv, 19, i; scales 30 to 35 in lateral line to base of 

 caudal, and usually 3 or 4 more on latter; 14 to 16 scales before dorsal, 

 usually 15; 6 to 8 scales in an oblique series back from origin of dorsal 

 to lateral line, usually 7; 6 or 7 scales from origin of ventral to lateral 

 line, usually 6; eye 3 to 3i in head, from tip of upper jaw, usualh- but 

 little over 3; total length 1|| to 2f inches. 



This species has been united -with Astyanax fasciatus (Cuvier) by 

 Prof. Ulrey {Ann. N. Y. Acad. ScL, VIII, 1893-95, p. 283). A. 

 laticeps has three distinct small denticles at the base of the maxillary. 



Astyanax lineatus (Perugia). 



Tetragonopterus lineatus Cope, Proc. ,\mer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XXXIII, 

 1894 (January 5), p. 107. Xear Chapada in Matto Grosso from the head- 

 waters of the' Paraguay. H. H. Smith. 



Head 3i; depth 2f ; D. in, 9; A. iv. 25, i; scales 33 in lateral line to 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



base of caudal, and 3 more on latter; 7 scales in an oblique series back 

 from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 6 scales in a vertical series from 

 base of ventral to lateral line, and same number from origin of anal to 

 latter; about 15 scales before dorsal; pectoral 1^ in head; ventral If; 

 lower caudal lobe 1 ; snout 3f in head, measured from tip of upper jaw; 

 eye 3; interorbital space 2f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f. At 

 least one small denticle at base of maxillary. Posterior distal ex- 

 tremity of maxillary extending till opposite anterior margin of pupil. 

 Rakers about 9 + 15, slender, pointed and longest much shorter than 

 filaments. In alcohol with a pale dusky humeral blotch. A dash of 

 dusk}^ on middle of side of caudal jjeduncle at base of caudal, fading 

 out over posterior portion of anal, though posterior it extends out on 

 middle caudal rays. About ten distinct longitudinal brownish lines on 

 body, darker on back, and made up of dark brownish specks or dots. 

 Iris brownish with a darker brownish ring. Length 3yf inches. 



Dr. Steindachner's figure in Sitz. Ak. Wiss. Wien, C, 1891, p. 368, 

 PI. 2, fig. 1, does not show the dusky streak on the side of the caudal 

 peduncle. 



Astyanax ohapadae sp. nov. Fig. 33. 



Head Sf; depth 3; D. iii, 8; A. iv, 18; P. i, 9; V. i, 7; scales 39 in 

 lateral line to base of caudal, and 3 more on latter; 6 scales from origin 

 of dorsal obliquelj' back to lateral line, and 4 in same way from origin 

 of adipose fin; 4 scales between origin of ventral and lateral line 

 obliquely forward ; 4 scales between origin of anal and lateral line; 16 

 scales before dorsal; width of head Ixf in its length; depth of head, 

 over middle of orbit, H; snout 3^; eye 3; maxillary 2^; interorbital 

 space 3; mandible 2f ; length of depressed dorsal 1|-; pectoral If; 

 ventral 2 ; upper caudal lobe l-jV ; least depth of caudal peduncle 24. 



Body elongate, compressed, rather ovoid, lower profile a little more 

 convex than upper, and greatest depth at origin of dorsal. Predorsal 

 region rounded. Postdorsal region with a median obtuse keel. Pre- 

 ventral region rounded. Postventral region slightly trenchant. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed, and its least depth about § its length. 



Head a little long, somewhat attenuated, well compressed, muzzle a 

 little pointed, upper profile a little concave above eye posteriorly, and 

 lower profile rather evenly conve.x. Snout a little long, convex, and 

 produced a little beyond tip of mandible. Eye circular, a little superior 

 and its center about first f in head. Mouth a little oblique. Maxillary 

 obliquely vertical, its distal expanded extremity reaching about op- 

 posite front margin of pupil and its width about half of diameter of 

 same. Mandible strong. Lips rather fleshy. Teeth in jaws mostly 




350 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



quindentate, especially those in mandible anteriorly which are also long 

 and pointed, and five in each outer series above. At least three small 

 serrated teeth along base of maxillary. Tongue elongate, fleshy and 

 not free. Nostrils together near upper front rim of orbit. Interorbital 

 space a little convex. Greatest width of infraorbital rim a little less 

 than orbit or much broader than greatest exposed width of opercle. 



Gill-opening extending forward opposite front margin of pupil. 

 Rakers about 7 + 10, lanceolate, rather far apart, and longest aboiit 

 f of longest filaments. Filaments about equal to pupil. Isthmus 

 narrow. Branchiostegals 4. 



Scales large, well striated, largest on flanks, and in longitudinal 



Fig. 33. — Astyanax chapadce Fowler. 



series parallel with lateral line. Basal anal sheath low and of small 

 scales. Base of caudal well covered with small scale,s. Axillary 

 ventral scale about ^ length of fin. Lateral line well decurved and 

 running rather low posteriorly to base of caudal. . Tubes simple. 



Origin of dorsal a little nearer base of caudal than tip of snout, 

 fin low, and when depressed reaching f of space to base of caudal. 

 Adipose fin small, its origin near last third in space between origin 

 of dorsal and base of caudal, or just behind base of last anal ray, 

 and length of fin less than orbit. Origin of anal about opposite 

 base of penultimate dorsal ray, or about midway between that of 

 pectoral and base of caudal. Caudal rather small, emarginate, and 

 lobes roimded. Pectoral falling a little short of ventral. Ventral 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



inserted nearly midway between tip of snout and tip of last anal ray, 

 or well before dorsal, and reaching about | of space to anal. Vent close 

 in front of anal. 



Color in alcohol brown, especially back, sides and lower surface 

 silvered and pale. A humeral blotch. A faint trace of a slightly 

 lighter silvered band from shoulder to base of caudal, posteriorly 

 becoming plumbeous though only slightly dusky at base of caudal, 

 and same shade also continued out on median caudal rays to their tips. 

 Base of each caudal lobe with a pale straw-colored blotch about size 

 of pupil, then membranes between rays blackish and fading out into 

 pale dusky posteriorly. Dorsal brownish with an indistinct dusky 

 cross-streak. Other fins all pale and umnarked. Iris brownish. 



Length 25 inches. 



Type, No. 21,828, A. N. S. P. Near Santa Anna da Chapada, in 

 Matto Grosso, Brazil, from the headwaters of the Paraguay. August, 

 1884. H. H. Smith. Prof. E. D. Cope. Also paratype, No. 21,829, 

 A. N. S. P., with same data. 



This species is closely related to Astyanax moeyikhausii (Eigenmann 

 and Kennedy), from which it differs chiefly in the coloration. A. 

 paucidens (Ulrey) and A. jemjnsii (Steindachner) both differ in the 

 fewer scales, apparently not more than 33. 



(Named for Santa Anna da Chapada, province of Matto Grosso, 

 Brazil.) 




352 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



DESCRIPTIONS OF TWO NEW POLYCHa;TA FEOM ALASKA. 

 BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



Among a number of Alaskan Polych£eta in the collections of this 

 Academy, the two of which the descriptions follow are new. 



Syllis quaternaria sp. nov. 



This sexual free-swimming form of the type for which Malmgren 

 instituted his genus Chcetosyllis is probably the epitokous form of a 

 true Syllis, but it cannot be correlated with any atokous form hitherto 

 described. 



The length varies from 7 to 9 mm. ; the width between the ends of 

 the parapodia is .8 mm. and between the tips of the capillary setae 4.5 

 mm., or one-half the length of the body. 



Syllis quaternaria. — a, dorsal \'iew of prostomium, peristomium and first two 

 somites bearing capillary seta?, X 24; b, parapodium from IX with seta? cut 

 off, X 32; c, a long and d, a short notopodial seta from X, X 600. 



The prostomium (a) consists of a pair of prominent hemispherical 

 lobes separated by a deep, narrow, median cleft, and each again divided 

 by a shallow transverse groove. A pair of simple unjointed or obscurely 

 wrinkled cylindrical tentacles arise from the latter grooves and 

 incline decidedly toward the dorsum. They reach a length of 1^ to 1^ 

 times the prostomium. No other cephalic appendages exist, but there 

 are two pairs of dense, black or deep brown, short spindle-shaped eves, 

 each provided with a small cuticular lens. The dorsal eyes are the 

 more posterior and look verticalh- upwards; the large ventral pair look 

 downwards, forwards and outwards. Sometimes 1 or 2 small, rod-like 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



bodies of pigment occur with the eyes. Tlie mouth is a minute open- 

 ing situated at the very bottom of the vertical prostomial cleft near the 

 ventral surface. 



The peristomium (a) is but little modified and a segment just like 

 the others, except that the parapodia lack the capillary setse. The 

 sides of the body are nearly parallel almost to the caudal end, where the 

 last 12 to 15 of the total number of 40 to 43 segments taper to the 

 pygidimn. Each segment is about \ as long as wide, or anteriorly 

 rather more than this. The small triangular pygidium bears a pair 

 of large, stout moniliform cirri of about 25 joints, and in the males an 

 additional short, slender, and unjointed median ventral cirrvis. 



Excepting the first pair the parapodia (6) are biramous, and all but 

 the first and the last few bear capillary setse in the notopodium. The 

 basal part is a rather large dome-shaped structure, from which the 

 neuropodium projects rather prominently and ends in a short, slightly 

 curved dorsal acicular process, while a postsetal lamina, stepped at the 

 ends for the rows of setee, forms its more ventral portion. Two or 

 three straight aciculi support the neuropodium. From the middle of 

 the ventral surface of the foot arises a short, slender, tapered and un- 

 jointed ventral cirrus. The notopodium is a very slight, conical tu- 

 bercle which receives the end of a single aciculum strongly curved at the 

 tip and caps a large yellowish setigerous sac, from which the capillary 

 setse spring. Well above and separated from this tubercle arises the 

 dorsal cirrus, which is always prominent and strongly moniliform. 

 With considerable regularity the dorsal cirri are alternately longer and 

 shorter, the even numbers being about equal to f of the width of the 

 body exclusive of the parapodia and consisting of 20 to 25 joints, 

 whereas the odd numbers are about f as long as they and have onlj' 14 

 to 16 joints. 



As stated above, all but the peristomium and the last 5 or 6 segments 

 bear capillary notopodial setse which form dense and very conspicuous 

 bundles. They are perfectly smooth and simple in structure, glass- 

 like in appearance, tapered to excessively fine but apparently flattened 

 ends, and are more or less curved and sometimes curled and twisted at 

 the ends — the latter condition being probably the result of preserva- 

 tion. 



Neuropodial setae are arranged in 5 or 6 horizontal sub-acicular rows. 

 They are relatively short and stout and perfectly colorless and vitreous. 

 The curved stems are deeply cuppetl, and toothed along the more pro- 

 longed side. The blades end in a single, rather stout, little hooked 

 tooth, and the dorsal or shorter side is provided with a moderately 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



strong fringe best developed on the shorter blades, which also exliibit 

 an aggregation of some of the terminal hairs to simulate an accessory 

 tooth. On the ventral seta the blades seldom exceed a length of twice 

 the diameter of the end of the shaft, while those of the 3 or 4 setae in 

 the dorsalmost row are narrower and 4 or 5 times as long as the distal 

 end of the shaft. 



Although all of the specimens examined are fully mature and have 

 the body cavity filled with ova or sperm, the alimentary canal is com- 

 plete and well developed, extending continuously from mouth to 

 anus without exhibiting any of that occlusion or degeneration seen in 

 many sexually mature syllids and other annelids. 



The type and about a score of cotypes are No. 1,091 of the Academy's 

 collections. Taken on the "surface in a lead 4 miles from shore by 

 Mr. E. A. McIlhennA- at Point Barrow, Alaska." 



Ammotxypane brevis sp. nov. 



The type of this species is a somewhat contracted specimen 15 mm. 

 long. 1.5 mm. broad and 1.9 mm. high in the middle, being therefore 

 rather robust and tapering to both ends. The general resemblance to 

 A. aulogaster is close, but if the differences exhibited by the single speci- 

 men prove to be constant the two species are readily separated. 



Amjnotrypane breris. — Parapodium and gill from somite X, X 56. 



Instead of being laterally compressed the prostomium is blunt and 

 flattened dorso-ventrally. From it a slight median ridge passes back- 

 ward and gradually merges into the dorsal em*vatiu-e of the back. 

 Below this ridge on each side are the small sensory pits or nuchal 

 organs. The mouth is a small trifid opening bounded by a pair of 

 small anterior lobes and a single posterior lobe. Although the bodj-- 

 seems to be quite complete and exhibits no indications of regeneration, 

 there are only 29 setigerous somites not distinguishable from one 

 another externally except through the presence of the parapodia. No 

 intersegmental fm-rows whatever are discernible and the segments pass 

 continuously into one another, ^'entrally a pair of stout muscular 

 bands, separated by a deep median groove, produce a somewhat sole- 

 like siu-face. Above this the bodv is narrower and stronglv arched 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



and marked only by the small transverse muscle bundles, apparently 



4 to each segment. 



If perfect, as it appears to be, the pygidium presents striking char- 

 acteristics. The large median spoon-shaped lobe of A. aulogaster is 

 absent and represented only by a minute slender process. The 

 lateral lobes are much larger, obliquely truncated above, and slightly 

 indented at the end. 



The parapodia arise from the dorso-lateral surface of the lateral 

 muscle bands and are about equally well developed throughout. 

 They form small but distinct bluntly rounded tubercles produced 

 into a small, conical prominence and apparently unsupported by an 

 aciculum. They bear only a small ventral cirrus and a prominent 

 dorsal branchia, the small dorsal cirrus which has been figured for 

 some species being absent. Branchiae are absent from the first pair 

 of parapodia, but are present on all of the others. They are largest 

 on the middle segments, where they exceed a millimeter in length and 

 the parapodium in diameter. They are slender and slightly tapering in 

 form and provided along one side with a strongly developed longitudi- 

 nal muscle, rendering them very contractile. 



The setae are all simple, colorless, tapering, capillary bristles, longi- 

 tudinally fibrillated and soft in texture. They are arranged in two 

 fascicles, a dorsal of 6 to 10 setae which reach f the length of the 

 branchia, from the base of which they arise, and a ventral which arises 

 from beneath the conical prolongation of the parapodimn and contains 



5 or 6 setfe less than ^ as long as the dorsal bristles. 



Along the sides of the body between the parapodia, but nearest to the 

 succeeding one, are small black or dark brown and very conspicuous 

 eye spots, which are hemispherical in shape and indistinctly facetted on 

 the surface. 



The only specimen, a female filled with eggs, is No. 284 of the Acad- 

 emy's collection, taken by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at Icy Cape, Alaska, 

 on August 17, 1895. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



NOTE 05 THE DUSKY SALAMANDEE 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Near Port Allegany, in McKean county, and in the valleys of the 

 headwaters of the Genesee, Allegheny and Susquehanna, in Potter 

 county. Pa., Mr. T. D. Keim and the WTiter spent a few days, studying 

 the fauna, in the summers of 1904 and 1906. Most of the hemlock 

 forests have been cleared oflf, except near Port Allegany,. where one 

 still has but a short time left to study the animal life in its primeval 

 conditions. 



Perhaps the most abundant in individuals among cold-blooded verte- 

 brates was the little dusky salamander, Desmognathus fusca. It was 

 found nearly ever\-\vhere in the valleys, about and in streams, and on 

 the comparatively dry mountain-tops, though there less numerous 

 and more solitary. About the headwaters of the Genesee they were 

 even more abundant, so that we had the opportunity of examining 

 multitudes of living examples. So abimdant were they in some 

 localities that as many as four or five would frequently occiu- under a 

 single small stone. Owing to the natiu-e of the brooks about the 

 Genesee headwaters, which are very swift, cold and sinking out of 

 sight in some places to appear again in others, very favorable habitats 

 are secured in the comparatively damp intercoiu-ses which are only 

 flooded in times of hea\'y rains. 



Very great range in color-pattern and color-variation was noted in 

 this species. Young an inch long had the pale area on the back more 

 or less immaculate pink or pale brown. The uppermost of the accom- 

 panying figures, Plate XIII, indicates this type. They varied from these 

 shades into the dusky-black adults. Thej^ did not always appear to 

 change from pinkish to brown, as some with pink backs were found 

 equally as large as the larger brownish ones. The pale colors of the 

 back were not always immaculate, many being variously blotched 

 or speckled with darker or brownish. Very dark or blackish examples, 

 not larger than the largest pink or brown ones, also occiured, though 

 these all showed traces to some extent of the dorsal color-pattern. 

 Most all full-grown examples lose every trace of the dorsal color-pattern 

 in the blackish of the back. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



A comparison of the types of Desmognathus ochrophma Cope seems to 

 leave it perfectly clear that it is nothing more than the intermediate 

 brown color-variety of D. jusca, which I have represented in the two 

 lower median accompanying figm-es. The identity of D. ockrophwa 

 with D. fusca, however, was fii-st suggested by Mr. G. M. Allen in the 

 Proc. Bost. Soc. N. H., 29, 1901, p. 73. In view of the material ex- 

 amined I am now able to fully endorse Mr. Allen's view as final. 

 The characters pointed out by Cope in 1889 are certainly not of specific 

 value as they range more or less through most of my material. The 

 habitat of the ochrophcea stage is not confined entirely to the mountain- 

 tops, as the animals are found under damp stones about streams and 

 in the valleys. I do not agree with Cope's suggestion that Salamandra 

 haldemani Holbrook is "an unusually spotted Spelerpes bilineatus" as 

 the taU is somewhat short. It agrees with some of my examples of 

 D. fusca to some extent in the color of the belly, which is usually more 

 or less livid in life. It had best be regarded as a synonym of D. fusca. 



As small and medium-sized examples greatly resemble Plethodon 

 erythronotus, which is rather abundant in the dry forests, a good char- 

 acter for distinguishing the two species at a glance will be found in the 

 pale or whitish streak extending down from the eye behind. This is 

 present on most all examples and may frequently be traced to some 

 extent in the blackish adults. 



24 




35S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



A CONTRIBUTION TO THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE OKTHOPTERA OF MONTANA, 

 YELLOWSTONE PARK, UTAH AND COLORADO, 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD. 



During the month of August, 1904, the junior author was occupier] 

 in collecting Orthoptera at a number of localities extending from 

 eastern Montana to Salt Lake City, and from that locality to east- 

 central Colorado. Collecting at some localities was limited to a few 

 minutes search permitted by the stoppage of the train, at other locali- 

 ties several days were spent and very extensive and interesting collec- 

 tions made. The careful study of the Orthoptera of the Yellowstone 

 Park and of Pike's Peak yielded some interesting and scarce species, 

 as well as two new forms and a considerable amount of information on 

 the habitat and actions of a nmnber of species. 



The number of specimens in the collection studied is about 2,800, 

 and 121 species are represented. Notes on the habits and other infor- 

 mation has been given imder most of the species by the collector, 

 and the chief localities visited have been briefly described, to aid in 

 a proper understanding of their conditions and environmental features 

 as well as to aid future students in this region. 



A considerable representation of the species treated in this paper 

 has been placed in the Academy's collection by the junior author. 



Montana. 



TT'aco, Yellowstone Co., elevation 2,700 feet. On the sage-brush 

 plains just east of the foothills of the Rockies. 



Grey Cliff, Sweetgrass Co., elevation 3,900 feet. In a more rugged 

 character of country than Waco but with a similar vegetation. 

 Orthoptera appeared to swarm as the specimens collected were taken 

 in less than two minutes. 



Billings, Yellowstone Co., elevation 3,115 feet. Specimens taken 

 here were from the dusty main street of the town. 



Livingston, Park Co., elevation 4,488 feet. Material from this 

 locality was taken among weeds growing in a vacant lot near the 

 station. 



Emigrant, Daileys, Sphinx and Electric, Park Co., elevation 4,800- 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



5,100 feet. During the brief stops made by the train between Livingston 

 and Gardiner a httle collecting was possible. 'These stations are 

 situated in the valley of the Yellowstone river between the Sno-«y 

 Mountains and the Gallatin Range. The vegetation is chiefly sage- 

 brush and other plants which grow in a semi-arid soil. Orthoptera 

 were very plentiful, and had time allowed a great quantity could easilj- 

 havc been taken. 



Miiir, Bozevmn Tunnel, Park Co., elevation 5,496 feet. At this 

 point a few minutes' stop afforded an opportunity to collect in the 

 heavy growth of weeds and grasses along the track. The vegetation 

 was very luxuriant and wholly different from that found in the semi- 

 arid sections. The Orthoptera of regions of this character was always 

 much less abundant than in the sage-brush country. 



Three Forks, Willow Creek and Sappington, Gallatin Co., and Jefferson 

 City ami Whitehall, Jefferson Co., elevation 4,061—1,529 feet. During 

 the brief stops made at these towns a few specimens were taken. 

 The soil was barren and Orthoptera was far less plentiful than in the 

 more eastern portion of the State. 



Spire Rock, Jefferson Co., elevation 5,217 feet. Among the great 

 boulders on the smnmit of the mountains near Butte a few specimens 

 were seen and hardly anj^ vegetation found. This locality was by far 

 the most desolate of any at which collecting was done. 



Yellowstone Park. 



Mammoth Hot Springs, elevation 6,215-7,000 feet. At Fort Yellow- 

 stone, where the llammoth Hot Springs are situated, a great variety 

 of collecting grounds are within easy reach. About the fort itself, 

 among the weeds and grasses, Orthoptera were not very plentiful; but 

 immediately behind the hotel, in the dense sage-brush growing on the 

 sides of the foothills, vast quantities of Orthoptera of many species 

 were to be found. Collecting here was somewhat difficult owing to the 

 steep hillside anil the agility of the majority of the species, as well as 

 the difficulty of following more interesting specimens on account of 

 the quantities of more common species which everywhere swarmed. 

 At a greater elevation on the sides of these hills the sage-brush gave 

 place somewhat to grasses and other low growing plants, where Orthop- 

 tera were less prevalent but more desirable. On the summits, however, 

 the ground was pebbly and overgrown with sparse and stunted grasses, 

 in which situations many most desirable species were abundant antl 

 • could be easily taken in the scanty vegetation. In one grassy hollow 

 near the top of the foothills, among scattered bushes near a thicket 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



of aspen, I found species which did not seem present in the suiTounding 

 sections, among which were Hippiscus nuiadatus, Circotettix rabula, 

 Bradynotes obesa and Melanoplus alpinus. 



At the head of the hot springs I found a plot of marsh grass among 

 the stunted pines which revealed several species of crickets and other 

 Orthopterous insects not found in the siurounding couutrj-. On the 

 summits of the higher foothills nearby an even gi'eater variety of the 

 more interesting forms were found. 



Apollinaris Spring, elevation 7,2.50 feet. Material collected here 

 was from dense pine woods. 



Fountain, Lower Geyser Basin, elevation 7,230 feet. Very few 

 specimens could be found here, the pine woods nearby revealing 

 nothing whatever, while but very few individuals were taken on the 

 gej'ser formation and in the short grass near the hotel. This was the 

 most unfavorable locality found in the Park. 



Old Faithful Inn, Upper Geyser Basin, elevation 7,830 feet. Here 

 two distinct collecting localities were accessible in which few though 

 interesting forms were found. Between Old Faithful geyser and the 

 Firehole river a space of short grass contained niunerous Arphia 

 pseudonietana, while on the smTounding geyser formations the same 

 species could be found in very small numbers. Back of the Inn, among 

 the short but thickly-growing pines, several species of Melanoplus 

 {M. bruneri and fasciatus) were found which were not met with else- 

 where in the Park. Unlike most of the Yellowstone localities, long and 

 diligent search was required to secm-e each specimen. 



Norris Pass, Continental Divide, elevation 8,2-10-8.320 feet. About 

 the Norris Pass the vegetation was scanty owing to the elevation. In 

 the more open spaces a short grass grew plentifully and several species 

 of Orthoptera could have been taken in numbers had time permitted. 



The Thumb, Yellowstone Lake. About The Thumb on the shore of 

 Yellowstone Lake the vegetation was heavy, but owing to the few 

 cleared spaces but few Orthoptera were found. 



Exit of the Yellowstone River, elevation 7,742 feet. At this point 

 above the high abrupt bank on the left side is a large treeless expanse 

 covered by high plants and shrubs. In this location aU forms of insect 

 life were very plentiful, and many varieties of boreal Lepidoptera were 

 noticed. The Orthoptera of this section differed materially from 

 that found in the more arid gej'ser regions. 



Mud Volcano, elevation 7,740 feet. Collecting here was done on 

 sandy soil. 



Near Grand Cai'wn, elevation 8,000 feet. The countrv about the 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Grand Canon much resembled that about Yellowstone Lake, but 

 Orthoptera were less abundant. As in other parts of the Park, very 

 few specimens could be found in the woods. 



Utah. 



Vicinity of Salt Lake City, Salt Lake Co., elevation 4,230-6,000 feet. 

 About Salt Lake City I found the vicinity of Ensign Peak (top 6,000 

 feet elevation) by far the most productive collecting ground. There 

 the soil was dry and gravelly, but covered with a somewhat sturdy 

 growth of sage-brush and other desert plants. In this place Orthoptera 

 swarmed and great difficulty was experienced in following scarce 

 specimens among the legions of less desirable ones. About the foot 

 of the hill was the most productive situations, but great numbers were 

 found both on the hillside and at the top. 



In a dry field of cut alfalfa some miles south of the city (elevation 

 4,230 feet) collecting was profitable among the stubble, although both 

 there and in the sm-rounding country far fewer species were to be 

 found than was expected and nothing of the variety found in the more 

 barren region about Ensign Peak. 



Colorado. 



Grand Junction, Mesa Co., elevation 4,573 feet. In the dry sandy 

 country at this locality quite good collecting was found, though recent 

 freshets had washed over much of the ground, and the only vegetation 

 in most places consisted of tall scraggy bushes. 



Antlers, Garfield- Co., elevation 5,310 feet. An area of cactus and 

 sage at this locality proved very productive in the few minutes spent 

 there. 



Debeque, Mesa Co., elevation 4,935 feet, and Ncurastle, Garfi.eld Co., 

 elevation 5,552 feet. Both localities in the rather arid canon of the 

 Grand River. 



Vicinitij of Colorado Springs, El Paso Co. To the east of the city in 

 the prairie (elevation about 6,000 feet) Orthoptera were present in 

 countless numbers. The true prairie-grass land revealed many species, 

 while the more luxuriant grass about a small stagnant pond produced 

 other species. This locality, while somewhat dry, was nothing like the 

 parched sage-brush plains in which collecting was done at other places. 

 Austin Bluffs (elevation 6,960 feet) rise abruptly from the prairie land, 

 many dry shrubs growing upon them, plentifully interspersed with 

 scrub pines. 



Vicinity of Manitou, El Paso Co. The mesa (elevation 6,400 feet) 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



at this locality was somewhat like the prairie at Colorado Springs, but 

 not nearly as productive. On the hillside near the Pike's Peak railroad 

 station (elevation 6,700 feet) Orthoptera were plentiful among the 

 high grasses and scrub oak thickets. The Garden of the Gods (eleva- 

 tion 6,300 feet) proved everj-n-here unproductive except a small field 

 of tail grass near the Manitou street-car line. Many species were to 

 be found here in numbers. 



Pike's Peak. The summit of Pike's Peak (elevation l-i.l-tJ feet) is 

 a mass of huge boulders with no apparent vegetation. The region 

 about Windy Point (12,000-12,300 feet) is treeless and very steep. A 

 short but stiu'dy grass grows everywhere that the quantity of huge 

 jagged rocks permit, and in this grass a few species of Orthoptera 

 such as Goinphocerus clavatus, Melanoplus altitudinum, fasciatus and 

 monticola were quite plentiful. 



Along the timber-line (11,578 feet) in the stunted vegetation Orthop- 

 tera were somewhat more varied, but not as interesting as those at 

 Windy Point. At Jliddle Hudsonian (elevation 10,500 feet) and above 

 the pimip station (elevation 10,100 feet) the forest of quaking aspen 

 was exceedingly unproductive and very few specimens were seen. In 

 Dark Caiion (elevation 8,900-9,000 feet) in spite of an abundance of 

 grass few Orthoptera could be found, although other forms of insect 

 life were plentiful. On the densely wooded upper slope of Dark Canon 

 work was attended with less success than in the biu-ned-ov-er forest. 



Cripple Creek, Teller Co., elevation 9,591 feet. The few specimens 

 taken at Cripple Creek were from the tailings about the mines. 



Fort Morgan, Morgan Co., elevation 4,338 feet. A rank growth of 

 weeds along the railroad track at this place swarmed with Orthoptera, 

 and in a few minutes a numljer of interesting forms were taken. 



MANTID^. 



LITANEUTRIA Saussure. 

 Litaneutria minor (Scudder). 



Antlers, Colorado, Aug. 15, 1 immature 9 . 



This specimen is referred to this species with some uncertainty, as it 

 may represent L. boreal is Bruner, which, howe\-er, is of doubtful 

 validity.^ 



This individual was taken on dry soil among dense beds of cactus 

 and sage. 



' Vide CaudeU, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVIII, pp. 463, 464. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



ACRIDID.ZE. 



ACRYDIIX.E. 

 ACRYDIUM Geoffrey. 

 Aorydium granulatum Kirb.v. 



Hill at head of spring.s. Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, 

 Aug. 5, 2 immature specimens. 



Careful search revealed no matm-e specimens. 



Aorydium orassum (Morse). 



Manitou, Colorado, 6,324 feet, Aug. 16, 3 d', 8 9 ; 6,700 feet, Aug. 

 23, 1 (5^,1 9. 



This species has previously been recorded from localities in northern 

 and north-central Colorado: Fort CoIUils, Laporte, Steamboat Springs, 

 Poudre river, Platte Canyon and Denver. 



This species was found among the mountain-loving plants in the 

 immediate vicinity of scrub oak bushes. It appeared to be extremely 

 local, for I found it in but one small area, where, however, it was 

 common. 



ACRIDIN.E. 

 SYEBULA StM. 

 Syrbula admirabilis (Uhler). 



St. Louis, Missom-i, Aug. 27, 18 d^, 12 9 . 



These specimens are inseparable from New Jersey individuals. 



A common species in the tall weeds of a vacant lot in the city. 



ACROLOPHITUS Thomas. 

 Acrolophitus Mrtipes (Say). 



ilammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, 6,215 and 6,500 feet, 

 Aug. 5, 2 <d. Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 18, 4 (d, 9 9 . Praii-ie 

 land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 1 9 . Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, 

 Aug. 17-22, 7 d*, 13 9. 



This series exhibits a great range of color variation, extending from 

 the typical blotched form to the uniform one tentatively named 

 uniformis by Bruner.- The latter does not appear worthy of recogni- 

 tion, as the extremes and intermediates are present in both the larger 

 series examined. 



This species was quite scarce on the hillsides about the Mammoth Hot 

 Springs, being found among sage and mountain plants. On the prairie 

 outside of Colorado Springs the species was extremely plentiful and 



' Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 47. 




364 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



easily captvired. The insect is not swift of flight and often relies on 

 its strongly protective coloration to escape detection. 



Fig. 1. — Akentelus unicolor McNeill. Ivnob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado. 

 Lateral view of male. (X 5.) 



AKENTETUS McNeill. 

 Akentetus unicolor McNeill. 



Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 1 9 . Knob 



Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 

 17, 2 c?. Akron, Washington Co., Col- 

 orado, Aug. 24, 1 d^ . 



This scarce species, previously re- 

 corded only from the t^qDe locality 

 ("Colorado") and Lakin, Kansas, is 

 also represented in the Academy collec- 

 tion by a male from Nebraska and a 

 female from Livermore, Larimer Co., 

 Colorado, the latter taken July 23, 

 1899. The pattern of coloration is very 

 similar to that of Amphitornus, but the 

 longitudinal bars are narrower. In 

 the Akron and Mammoth Hot Springs 

 specimens the postocular regions are 

 distinctly infuscate. The bars on the 

 caudal femora are distinct in all the 



„. „ .,, .. . 7 ,r specimens examined. 



Fig. 2. — Akentetus unicolor Mc- 



Neill. Knob Hill, Colorado The four specimens of this species 

 oFSfntprl°ot?mS" taken were capt.u:ed in three decidedly 

 (X 5.) different locations. At Mammoth Hot 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



Springs one was taken on the hillside among sage-brush. At I^ob 

 HiU two were captured on the prairie, while at Akron it was taken in 

 a dry situation near the railroad. 



AMPHITORNUS McNeUl. 

 Amphitornus coloradus (Thomas). 



1872. S[tenobothrus] bicolor Thomas, Prelim. Rep. U. S. Geol. Sur. Montana, 

 p. 465.^ 



1873. S[tenobothriis\ coloradus Thomas, S>"nopsis Acrid. N. Amer., p. 82. 



Jlammoth Hot .Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 4 9,1 n3Tnph. 

 Summit of foothills near Mammoth Hot Springs, 6,500 feet, Aug. 5, 3 

 9 . HUl at head of ilammoth Hot Springs, 7,000 feet, Aug. 5, 1 9 . 

 Salt Lake Gty, Utah, Aug. 13, 1 ? . Hill near Salt Lake Qty, 4,700 

 feet, Aug. 13 and 14, 3 c? , 2 9 . Iinob HiU, Colorado Springs, Colorado, 

 Aug. 17-22, 4 d"', 1 9 . Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 1 9 . 



The series examined contains both the tj'pical form and the suffused 

 form called "Var. a" by Thomas. This is apparently the first record 

 of the species from L'tah. 



This species was found in Wyoming, Utah and Colorado in almost 

 the same numbers. Each specimen seen was captured, if that was in 

 any way possible. The insect was found among the sage on hillsides 

 and also among the grasses of the prairie. 



OPEIA McNeiU. 

 Opeia obsoura (Thomas). 



Salt Lake City. L^tah. Aug. 13, 1 9 . Colorado Springs, Colorado, 

 Aug. 18, 1 9 . ICnob Hill, Colorado Springs, Aug. 17-22, 65 d", 62 9 . 

 Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 2 <?, 2 9. Garden of the 

 Gods, Colorado, Aug. 19, 1 c?. 



Specimens of this species were received from Prof. C. P. Gillette from 

 Merino, Lamar, Snyder and Fort Collins, Colorado, labelled Eriteltix 

 variabilis %vith a query. The Salt Lake City specimen is apparently 

 the first recorded west of the Rockies. 



About Colorado Springs on the pranie this species was to be found 

 in countless nimibers. The males are very rapid in their movements, 

 but so common were they that sometimes over a dozen woidd be taken 

 with one sweep of the net. 



COEDILLACRIS Rehn. 

 Cordillaoris occipitalis (Thomas). 



Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. IS, 1 9 . Ivnob Hill, Colorado 



' Invalidated by Stenohothrus bicolor (Charpentier) , the combination dating 

 from Selys-Longcliamps, 1868 {Ann. Soc. Entoin. Belg., XI, p. 31). 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Springs, Aug. 18-22, 1 c?, 2 9. Austin Bluffs, Colorado Springs, 

 Aug. 18, 8 c?, 6 9 . Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 1 c?. 



This was an extremelj' scarce species on the grassy prairie, but among 

 the low plants growing in a forest of dwarf pines on Austin Bluffs it 

 was quite common. The insects spring about rapidly and are also able 

 to fly well. 

 Cordillaoris oinerea (Bruner). 



Sphinx, Park Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 1 c?. Austin Bluffs, Colorado 

 Springs, Colorado, Aug. 18, 2 9 . 



This form appears to be hardly separable from the preceding. 



The male captured was taken in the sage-brush. So rapidly did 

 it jump about that several minutes were occupied in making the cap- 

 ture, as I had no net at the time. 

 Cordillaoris erenulata (Bruner). 



Antlers, Garfield Co., Colorado, Aug. 15, 2 9 . Colorado Springs, 

 Colorado, Aug. IS, 1 9 . Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Aug. 17-22, 

 8 c?, 10 9 . Austin Bluffs, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 1 9 . Garden 

 of the Gods, Aug. 17 and 19, 1 6", 3 9 . 



This species was quite plentiful in the grass of the prairie outside 

 Colorado Springs. It was also taken among cactus and sage, in a 

 damp grassy meadow and among the low scattered plants growing in 

 a forest of dwarf pines. 



PHLIBOSTEOMA Scudder. 

 Phlibostroma quadrimaoulatum (Thomas). 



Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. IS, 2 d^, 2 9 . Knob Hill, Colo- 

 rado Springs, Aug. 17-22, 56 c5^, 39 9 . Manitou, Colorado, Aug. 23, 

 1 9 . Garden of the Gods, Colorado, Aug. 17-23, 8 d^, 5 9 . Akron, 

 Washington Co., Colorado, Aug. 24, 1 c?, 1 9 . 



One of the extremel}' plentiful species found in the prairie. Hun- 

 dreds could have been taken in a short time. Quite a diversity of 

 coloration occurred in the sj^ecimens, for among those taken were l:ioth 

 brown and green-marked individuals. The females were generalh^ 

 of the green form, while the males were more of the wholly brown type. 



ORPHULELLA Giglio-Tos. 

 Orphulella pelidna (Burmeister). 



Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Aug. 17-22, 5 d^, 5 9 . 



The separation of 0. pratoruvi from this form is a task apparently 

 hopeless. For the present at least we prefer to call these pelidna, as 

 ■pratoriim as understood by us, on the basis of material from the south- 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



eastern States and New Jersey, appears to be slenderer with longer 

 wings. However these differential characters are only averages, 

 numerous specimens which cannot otherwise be separated from the 

 usual pratorum type being intermediate in proportions. 



The species was found in short marshy grass growing about a shallow 

 pond in the prairie. Considerable search was required to find the ten 

 specimens captured. 



Orpliulella salina Scudder. 



Grand Junction, Colorado, Aug. 15, 1 d^. 



This species has previously been recorded from Grand Junction and 

 Montrose, Colorado, by CaudeU,'' and Grand Junction and Delta b}^ 

 Gillette.^ 



This specimen was taken in short grass near the Grand river, in a 

 locality which had been recently inundated. No other specimens of 

 Orthoptera were seen about this location. 



DICHROMOEPHA Morse. 

 Dicliromorpha viridis (Scudder). 



Table Rock, Pawnee Co., Nebraska, Aug. 25, 1 c^, 1 9 . vSt. Louis, 

 Missouri, Aug. 27, 2 9 . 



In both localities plentifid among thick grass and weeds. 



CHLOiiALTIS Harris. 

 Chloealtis abdominalis (Thomas). 



Summit of foothiU of Gallatin Range, Mammoth Hot Springs, 

 Yellowstone Park, 7,000 feet, Aug. 5, 4 c?, 7 ? . Manitou, Colorado, 

 6,300-6,900 feet, Aug. 23, 7 d", 4 9 . 



The male individuals are inseparable from a specimen of the same 

 sex from Pequaming, Michigan, while the females are similar to 

 individuals of that sex from Manitoba and Truchas Peak, New 

 Mexico. The Truchas Peak specimen is slightly smaller with rather 

 slenderer caudal limbs. 



This species was doubtfully recorded from Colorado by CockereU ° 

 as taken at Willow Creek, Cusack Ranch, Custer County, in September. 



At Mammoth Hot Springs I found this species in a small glade at 

 the top of the foothills. Here in the thick grass growing about a 

 clump of aspen the series listed above was taken with little difficult}'. 

 The males of this species are very quick and wary, but the females are 



* Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI. p. 782. 

 5 Bull. 94, Colo. Agr. Exp. Sta.. p. 26. 

 « TraTis. Amer. Ent. Soc, XX, p. 337. 




368 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



extremely heavy and slow, and appear to rely a great deal on their 

 protective resemblance to a bit of twig. The stridiilation of the 



Fig. 3. — Chloealtis abdominalis (Thoma.s). Manitou, Colorado. Lateral view 



of male. (X 4.) 



^^- 



Fig. 4. — Chloealtis abdoyyiinalis (Thomas). Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone 

 Park. Lateral view of female. (X 3.) 



males much resembles that of C. conspersa, but is not nearly so loud. 



At iManitou, I found this species in about the same numbers among 



the scrub oaks and mountain-loving plants of a steep hUlside. The 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



369 



species appeared to be very local in habitat and, if a colony of the 

 insect is not found, long search for the species 

 would very probably be useless. 



STAURODERtrS Bolivar.' 

 Stauroderus curtipennis (Harris). 



Muir, Bozeman Tunnel, Park-Gallatin Co., 

 Montana, Aug. 12, 1 9 . Sappington, Gallatin 

 Co., Montana, Aug. 12, 1 c?. Hill at head of 

 Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 

 5, 2 c?, 1 9. Fountain, Lower Geyser Basin. 

 Yellowstone Park, Aug. 6, 1 c?. Near Grand 

 Canon, Yellowstone Park, 8,000 feet, Aug. 10, 

 2 c?, 2 9 . Yellowstone Lake, Aug. 8, 5 d", 4 

 9 . Emerald Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 

 7, 2 c? , 2 9 . Ivnob Hill, Colorado Springs, Aug. 

 17, 1 9 . Manitou, Colorado, Aug. 16 and 23, 

 5 d^,5 9. 



These specimens vaiy considerably in size and 

 somewhat in structure, but such variation is par- 

 alleled in Eastern specimens, from which they 

 cannot be separated. 



This species was rather boreal in distribution and was found in 

 numbers in taU marshy grass in a large open pasture on the shore of 

 Yellowstone Lake. It was also found plentiful at Manitou, Colorado, 

 in the same locality as CJilocaltis abdominalis. At Muir, JIammoth 

 Hot Springs and ilanitou the species was foimd in dry locations, 

 all the other localities in which it was found being more or less damp. 

 The stridulations of the males resemble sik-sik-sik-sik swiftly repeated, 

 the sound being neither loud nor sharp. 



PLATYBOTHRUS Scudder. 

 Platybothrus brnnneus (Thomas). 



ilammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 2 c?. Summit 

 of foothills near Mammoth Hot Springs, Aug. 5, 4 d^, 4 9 . Summit 

 of foothill of Gallatin Range, Mammoth Hot Springs, Aug. 5, 1 cj*, 5 9 . 



Fig. 5. — Chloealtis ah- 

 domiiialis (Thomas). 

 Mammoth Hot 

 iSprings, Yellowstone 

 Park. Dorsal view 

 of head and prono- 

 tumoffemale. (X3.) 



' This, generic name {Catal. Sinopt. Ortopt. Favna Iherica, pp. 46, 57, 1898) 

 should be used in tliis connection in place of Stenohollirus if we recognize BoUvar's 

 di\'isions as genera, as has been done by Burr {EntunK Record and Journ. Variat., 

 XVI, p. 320) . If tliese groups are recognized as of only subgeneric rank, Fieber's 

 Chorthippus must be used as the generic term in place of Sfenobothi-us, as has 

 already been done in several pre\4ous papers by the senior author. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



On geyser formation. Mammoth Hot Springs, Aug. 5, 1 9 . Top of 

 bare hill opposite Devil's Kitchen, ^lammoth Hot Springs. Aug. 5. 1 9 . 

 Meadows near Norris Pass, Continental Divide, Yellowstone Park, 

 Aug. 5, 1 9 . Near Grand Canon, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 10, 2 c?. 



These specimens have the caudal tibia? with pale proxunal annuli 

 followed by dull glaucous and with the distal third reddish. 



This species is distinctly boreal and apparently uncommon in 

 collections, the only definite records being from Fort ilcLeod, southern 

 Alberta, several localities in Idaho, Fort McKinney, Wyoming, and 

 Estes Park, Colorado. Individuals from all except the Idaho localities 

 have been examined. 



The specimens taken were all found among the more boreal forms of 

 vegetation in the Park. Nowhere was it possible to take a large 

 series of specimens, in spite of the fact that when found individuals 

 w^ere easily captured. The insects move about quite hurriedly on 

 the ground, and when distm'bed can also use their wings advantage- 

 ously. 



GOMPHOCERTTS Thunberg. 

 Gomphocerus clavatus Thomas. 



^lammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 6 9 . Suimnit 

 of foothill of GaUatin Range, JIammoth Hot Springs, Aug. 5, 1 9 . 

 Manitou, Colorado, 6,800-7,000 feet, Aug. 23, 2 d", 5 9. Pike's 

 Peak, 10,200 feet, Aug. 20, 1 9 ; Dark Canon, 8,920-9,000 feet, Aug. 16, 8 

 c?, 4 9 ; above Windy Point, 12,.300 feet, Aug. 20, 16 c?, 8 9 , 6 nymphs ; 

 below Windy Point, 12,000 feet, Aug. 20, 6 c? ; along timber line, 

 11 ,578 feet, Aug. 20, 1 d ; Mountain View, 9,700 feet, Aug. 20, 2 6" , o 9 . 



With this series of nearly seventy specimens, and twenty others in 

 the collection of the Academy, we are unable to find any constant 

 character or characters to separate the three so-called American species 

 of this genus. We have attempted to apply the characters given by 

 Bruner' to distinguish them, but the Windy Point series exliibits 

 enough variation to prove the futility of attempting to recognize 

 several species. The length of the antennae and the angulation of 

 the fastigium vary to a great extent, and the inflation of the cephalic 

 tibite of the males apparently is as variable as in the European species 

 of the genus. 



I found this species by no means abundant about the ilanuuoth 

 Hot Springs, but took it in both the highest and lowest locations. On 



^ Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, pp. 92, 93. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



the hillside above Manitou, Colorado, I found the species in about the 

 same numbers as at the Hot Springs. From Dark Caiion to the 

 highest grassy locations on Pike's Peak, however, the species was 

 common in all favorable locatioas. The insects were found most 

 common in all open grassy spots, especially above the timber-line 

 where short grasses grow everyivhere between the scattered boulders. 

 The males are very active and are constantly stridulating — sik-sik-sik- 

 sik — a sound louder but similar to that produced by Stauroderus 

 curtipennis. . The females are slow and clumsy in their movements, 

 appearing cjuite different from the males. 



PSOLOESSA Scudder. 

 Psoloessa maculipennis Scudder. 



Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17, 1 9 . 



This specimen is somewhat smaller than Kansas and New ilexican 

 individuals of the species. The previous Colorado record of this 

 species was simply "Southern Colorado." 



While sweeping the prairie grass, a single specimen of this species 

 was taken from among the himdreds of more common species. So 

 great was the number of common Orthoptera in this locality that it 

 was impossible to search for the scarcer individuals, Ijut this species 

 was not met with again even though much sweeping was done in the 

 same vicinity. 



AGENEOTETTIX McNeill. 

 Ageneotettix deorum (Scudder). 



Livingston, Park Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 1 d^. Salt Lake City, 

 Utah, Aug. 13-14, 9 d^, 6 9 . Grand Junction, Colorado, Aug. 15, 1 c?. 

 Antlers, Colorado, Aug. 15, 3 cJ*, 1 9 . Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, 

 Colorado, Aug. 17-22, 73 c?, 87 9 . Austin BlufTs, Colorado Springs, 

 Aug. 18, 2 9 . Manitou, Colorado, Aug. 16, 3 d', 2 9 . Garden of 

 the Gods, Colorado, Aug. 17 and 19, 3 d^, 3 9 . Roggen, Weld Co., 

 Colorado, Aug. 24, 1 9 . Akron, Washington Co., Colorado, Auo-. 24, 

 2c?. 



With this extensive series before me, I am unable to separate Bruner's 

 scudderi and occidentalis. The characters given by him in his kej' of 

 the species of this genus ° do not appear to be constant, as specimens 

 from the type locality (Garden of the Gods) cannot be separated from 

 others from the supposed range of occidentalis (Salt Lake City, Grand 

 Junction and Antlers), while a sufficient series from any one locality 



• Bull. 94, Colo. Agr. Exp. Sta.. p. 58, 1904. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



contains individuals with the characters supposed to be diagnostic of 

 any of the three forms and numerous others which cannot be placed 

 in one or the other of the three ' ' species. ' ' 



This was one of the most plentiful species encountered. It was 

 found in many of the arid localities, but on the prairie it truly swarmed. 

 Each sweep of the net would take a dozen or more specimens in this 

 location, and so great were its numbers that other scarcer specimens, 

 even when seen, would often easily escape in the myriads of this species. 



AULOCARA Scudder. 

 Aulocara elliotti (Thomas). 



Gray Cliff, Sweet Grass Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 2 d*, 4 9 . Living- 

 ston, Park Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 1 9 . Electric, Park Co., Montana, 

 Aug. 4, 1 9 . Summit of foothills near Mammoth Hot Springs, Yel- 

 lowstone Park, Aug. 5, 5 c5^, 6 9. Top of Eixsign Peak, Salt Lake 

 City, Utah, Aug. 13, 1 9 . Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, 

 Aug. 17 and 22, 3 d^. Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 3 9 . 

 Garden of the Gods, Aug. 17, 19 and 23, 11 c?, 4 9 . 



The largest series of this species was taken in a meadow of tall grasses 

 and weeds at the western entrance of the Garden of the Gods. It was 

 also taken on the prairie at Colorado Springs, in dry grass and sage 

 at Gray Cliff and in the other localities in hilly sage-brush locations. 



Aulocara femoratum Scudder. 



Gray CM, Sweet Grass Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 1 d^. Garden of the 

 Gods, Colorado, Aug. 17, 19 and 23, 3 9 . 



As stated by Cxillette '" the females of this species are very similar 

 to the same sex of elliotti, and rather difficult to distinguish. The 

 slenderer caudal femora of jcmoratuyn are probably one of the best 

 differential characters. The Montana record is the most northerly 

 for the species. 



The specimen taken in Montana was captured among the dried 

 grasses in prairie land. Had I had more time in this locality I thinlc 

 more specimens could possibly have been taken. In the Garden of 

 the Gods the species was scarce, the only individuals taken being 

 captured in the grass near the western entrance. 



Aulocara parallelum Scudder. 



Hillside at Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13, 2 d^, 2 9. Top of 

 Ensign Peak, Salt Lake City, Aug. 13, 1 d^, 1 9 . Antlers, Colorado, 

 Aug. 15, 2 d". 



'» BuU. 04, Colo. Agr. Exp. Sta., p. 30, 1904. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



373 



The color of the caudal tibiae, which were missiug in the tj^^es, is 

 similar to that of A. elliotti, with the pale proximal annuli more dis- 



Fig. 6. — Aulocara parallelum Scudder. Salt Lake Citj', Utah. 



female. (X 3.) 



tinct in the females than in the males. The lalackish 

 postocular stripe mentioned by Scudder appears to be 

 a variable character and is absent in some specimens 

 and distinct in others. 



The Antlers specimens are the first recorded out- 

 side of Salt Lake \'alley. 



This species was scarce in both localities in which 

 it was taken. I found it on drj- soil overgrown with 

 sage, and owing to the activity of the individuals not 

 many of even the few seen were taken. The caudal 

 limbs of this species are so looseh' attached that the}- 

 snap off at the least strain and perfect specimens were 

 consequentlj'^ difficult to secure. 



CEDIPODIX,E. 

 AEPHIA St&l. 

 Arphia pseudonietana (Thomas). 



Upper Gej'ser Basin, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 7, 3 

 c?, 1 9 . Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13, 1 o". Hill- 

 side at Salt Lake City, Aug. 14, 1 c?, 1 ? . Prairie 



Lateral \'iew of 



Fig. 7. — Auloca- 

 ra parallelum 

 Scudder. Salt 

 Lake City, 

 Utah. Dorsa! 

 view of head 

 and pronotum 

 of female. (X 

 3.) 




374 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



land, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. IS, 1 c?, 1 9 . Akron, Color- 

 ado, Aug. 24, 1 d^. 



This series presents the variation in the intensity of the overlying 

 blotches of dark brown usual in the species, and which in specimens of 

 a light base color produces a strongly maculate type. The specimens 

 from Upper Geyser Basin all have the sutural margin of the tegmina 

 distinctly and broadly marked with pinkish ochraceous. 



In the Upper Geyser Basin this species was to be found in small 

 numbers in the small grassy spots between the geyser formations and 

 the Firehole river. In the other localities the species was scarce. 

 Its flight is very vigorous and accompanied by a loud clattering. 



Arphia arota Scudder. 



Hill at head of Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 

 1 c?. 



This specimen has the wings orange red. 



The individual collected was the only representative of the species 

 seen. 



CHORTOPHAGA Saussure. 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata (De Geer). 

 St. Louis, Missouri, Aug. 27, 1 ? . 



ENCOPTOLOPHUS Scudder. 

 Encoptolophus ooloradensis Bruner. 



Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17, 1 c?. 



The recognition of this distinct species was quite a surprise. Its 

 closest ally is E. sordidus, from which it is separated by numerous 



Fig. 8. — Encoptolophus coloradensis Bruner. Ivnob Hill, Colorado Springs, 

 Colorado. Lateral -vdew of male. (X 3.) 



characters. The only published record is the original description, 

 the type being from Fort Collins, Colorado. 




1906.] XATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



This specimen was beaten from tlie rank growth of weeds about a 

 small water-filled depression in the prairie. Owdng to the immense 

 number of common species in this place no other 

 specmiens of this species was noticed, and mucli beat- 

 ing in the same locality failed to secure additional 

 specimens. 



CAMNULA Stal. 



Camnula pellucida iScudder). 



Waco, Montana, Aug. 4, 3 cj', 2 9 . Emigrant, 



Montana, Aug. 4,19. Daileys, Montana, Aug. 4, 1 



2 . iSphiirs, Montana, Aug. 4, 1 9 . Electric, ilon- 



tana, Aug. 4, 1 9 . Muir, Bozeman Tunnel, Montana, 



Aug. 12, 1 o"',2 9 . Sappington, Montana, Aug. 12, 1 



6^. Spire Rock, Montana, Aug. 12, 1 c?. Mammoth Fig. 9. — Encop- 



Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park : hiU at head of springs, ^^^^ "BrT 



Aug. 5,19; on gej^ser formation at the upper end of ner. Knob 



springs, Aug. 5, 1 c? . Fountain, Lower Gej-ser Basin, ^^.' Colorado 



Yellowstone Park, Aug. 6, 1 c? . Upper Geyser Basin, orado. Dorsal 



Yellowstone Park, Aug. 7, 1 d". The Tliimib, Yel- ^'^"T' °^ '^ead 



andpronotum 

 lowstone Park, Aug. 7, 1 9 . A ear Grand Caiion, ofmale. (x3.) 



Yellowstone Park, Aug. 10, 1 9 . Yellowstone Lake, 



Aug. 7, 1 9 . Upper slope of Dark Canon, Pike's Peak, Colorado, 



Aug. 16, 4 c?, 1 9,1 nymph. 



The specimens from Waco are very interesting as they are exceed- 

 ingly pale in color, some appearing rather uniform dull straw color 

 with the maculations much reduced and quite feeble; others have the 

 maculations distinct but the lighter shades all the same color as in 

 the other pale individuals. The specimen from geyser formation at 

 Mammoth Hot Springs is coated with the mineral deposit. 



This species was one of the most plentiful of those found in Montana. 

 At Waco the insects fairly swarmed in the dry prairie grass and sage. 

 In this locality the specimens were extremeh* pale in coloration; 

 exactly the color of the plants on which the}' were foimd. I have 

 never seen greater swarms of insects than those of C. pellucida in the 

 sage at the foot of the hills at ilammoth Hot Springs. The species was 

 everyn'here in Montana far more plentiful in the low dry locations, but 

 in Colorado I found it onh' at a considerable elevation in Dark Caiion, 

 Pike's Peak. One specimen was found in the Mammoth Hot Springs 

 completely coated by the white formation. In another spring quite 

 a few specimens of this antl other species were found dead, kUled 

 probably by the fumes. 




376 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



HIPPISCUS Saussure. 

 Hippisous rugosus (Scudder). 



St. Louis, Missouri, Aug. 27, 1 9 . 



A single specimen of this species was seen and taken in a %acant 

 city lot overgrown with weeds. 



Hippisous conspiouus Scudder. 



Colorado Springs, Aug. 17, 1 9 . 



But one specimen of this species was seen. 



Hippisous maculatus Scudder. 



ilammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park: summit of neighboring 

 foothOls. Aug. 5, 1 9 ; summit of foothills of Gallatin Range, Aug. 5, 

 19.' 



A little doubt is attached to the identification of these specimens. 



This species was scarce, but other specimens could have been taken 

 had not the country been so hilly. Specimens would rise from the 

 sage-brush hillside and fly some distance much more swiftly than one 

 could follow. 



Hippisous altivolus Scudder. 



Near Mountain View. Pike's Peak, Colorado, 10,100 feet , Aug. 20, 1 c? . 

 This is apparently the first additional record of the species since the 



Fig. 10.— Hippiscus altivolus Scudder. Pike's Peak, Colorado, Lateral view of 



male. (X 3.) 



original description {'Sit. Lincoln, Colorado, above timber, 11,000- 

 1.3,000 feet above sea-level; Como, Colorado, 9,500 feet). 



This specimen was found on the cog-wheel railroad track, in a spot 

 where on each side almost the only vegetation was a dense thicket of 

 aspen. The insect's flight was erratic and exceedingly swift. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



Hippiscus neglectns (Thomas). 



ilammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 3 9 ; summit of 

 neighboring foothills, Aug. 5, 2 d"', 4 ? ; siminiit of foothills of Gallatin 

 Range, Aug. 5, 3 9 ; hill at head of springs, Aug. 5, 1 d^ ; top of bare 

 hill opposite Devil's Kitchen, Aug. 5, 1 6^, 3 9 . Upper Geyser Basin, 

 Yellowstone Park, Aug. 7, 1 9 . The Thumb, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 

 7, 1 c?. Ivnob Hill, Colorado Springs, 7,000 feet, Aug. 17, 1 9 . 



This species varies considerably in size and greatly in the intensity 

 of the color pattern and the sutural stripe. Individuals from Camas 

 Prairie, Idaho, have been used for comparison. 



About the Mammoth Hot Springs this species was the most plentiful 

 of the larger Orthoptera. It preferred the hillsides to other locations, 

 and, owing to its somewhat lighter form than other species of the geniis 

 found in that locality, it proved s^-ift of flight and not always easy to 

 capture. The single specimen taken at The Thmnb was found in a 

 small grassy space in the woods. Only one specimen was seen on the 

 grassy prairie at Knob Hill, Colorado Springs. 



LEPRTTS Saussure. 

 Lepras interior Bruner. 



Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13, 1 9 . Hillside at Salt Lake Qty, 

 Aug. 13 and 14, 4 d", 7 9. 



These individuals agree well with a pair received from Prof. Bruner 

 labelled Salt Lake City, and as a series are smaller and more conspicu- 

 ously colored than a pair of L. cyaneus from Nephista, Colorado. The 

 latter have the dark bars on the tegmina subobsolete, the light sutural 

 stripes and a transverse median light bar being the only distinct mark- 

 ings. In the Salt Lake specimens the bars are distinct and rather 

 regular, comparatively little variation being exhibited. Several of 

 the latter specimens have the blue of the caudal tibiae weaker than in 

 the other individuals. 



This series was only taken after long and careful search. There was 

 but one place on the steepest portion of Ensign Peak where the insect 

 could be found, and although the females were easily captured when 

 found, the males flew vigorously. So steep was the hillside that it was 

 bare of everj'thing but scattered grasses and an occasional sage-bush. 

 T\Tien at rest the insects were wonderfully protected by their colora- 

 tion. 



DISSOSTEIRA Scudder. 

 Dissosteira Carolina (Linnaeus). 

 Billings, Yellowstone Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 1 d", 1 9 . Salt Lake 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



City, Utah, Aug. 13 and 14, 2 ? . Grand Junction, Colorado, Aug. 

 15, 1 (5", 1 9. Colorado Springs. Colorado, Aug. 17, 3 c?, 2 9 . 

 Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Aug. 17-22, 6 c?, 1 9. Fort Morgan, 

 Morgan Co., Colorado, Aug. 24, 1 9 . 

 Everywhere common in dusty locations. 



Dissosteira longlpennis (Thomas). 



Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17 and IS, 2 6^, 1 9 . Ivnob Hill, 

 Colorado Springs, Aug. 17 aiad 18, 4 d^, 1 9 . 



Specimens have also been examined from Denver, Pueblo, Fort 

 Morgan and La Junta, Colorado, and Sidney, Nebraska. 



A somewhat scarce species and one of the wariest insects collected. I 

 found the specimens on the prairie, and would sometimes be obliged 

 to follow one several hundred yards before an opportunity was off^'ed 

 to capture it. The flight of this insect is swift and high and often of 

 considerable length. 



Dissosteira spurcata Saussure. 



Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13 and 14, 13 c?, 5 9 . 



This series exliibits a great amount of variation in the intensity of 

 the color pattern, some individuals being very dull, almost uniform, 

 while others have a strikingly contrasted pattern. As previously 

 remarked by Saussure, this species bears a considerable superficial 

 resemblance to Spharagemon venusttim. 



These specimens were all taken in a field of alfalfa stubble. 

 Although in this localitj^ the species was abundant, specimens were 

 not taken with ease o\\'ing to their extreme wariness and thek sudden 

 zigzag flight. Their coloration was of great protective value, as when 

 at rest it ^\-as almost impossible to distinguish them from the dried 

 alfalfa. 



SPHARAGEMON Scudder. 

 Spharagemon aequale (Say). 



Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17 and 18, 3 c?, 3 9 . Knob Hill, 

 Colorado Springs, Aug. IS, 1 c?, 1 9 . Prairie land, Colorado Springs, 

 Aug. 18, 1 c?, 4 9 . Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13, 2 d", 3 9 . Hill- 

 side at Salt Lake City, Aug. 14, 1 9 . 



One specimen only is collared, a female from the prairie at Colorado 

 Springs. 



This species was moderately abmidant on the grassy plain near 

 Colorado Springs and was easily captured, as it was by no means as 

 active as other species of the genus. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



Spharagemon bolli Scudder. 



Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, 7,000 feet, Aug. 17, 2 c?. 

 Manitou, Colorado, 6,900-7,000 feet, Aug. 23, 5 c?, 3 9 . 



These specimens are not separable from New Jersey specimens of 

 the species. 



Very few specimens of this species were found on the prau-ie, but it 

 was quite common on a path leading through pine woods on the hills 

 above Manitou. 



Spharagemon coUare (Scudder). 



Billings, Yellow^stone Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 1 c?. Colorado Springs, 

 Colorado, Aug. 17 and 18, 2 c?, 4 9. Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, 

 Aug. 17-22, 14 d", 37 9 . Roggen, Weld Co., Colorado, Aug. 24, 1 d\ 



The specimen from BiUings is assigned here with some doubt. One 

 of the most plentiful of the large species found on the prairie. 



Spharagemon collare angustipenne Morse. 



Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13, 2 9 . 



The two individuals recorded here were taken in the stubble field 

 in which Dissosteira spurcata was abundant. This form appeared to be 

 quite scarce. 



DEROTMEMA Scudder. 

 Derotmema cupidinenm Scudder. 



Whitehall, Jefferson Co., Montana, Aug. 12, 1 c?. Grand Junction, 

 Mesa Co. , Colorado, Aug. 15, 4 c? , 3 9 . Antlers, Garfield Co., Colorado, 

 Aug. 15, 9 d", 3 9 . 



These specimens are slightly larger than the original measurements 

 given by Scudder, but otherwise fit the description quite well. The 

 species appears to be readily separable from D. haydeni by the slighth^ 

 longer and distinctly slenderer caudal femora. The pectinate char- 

 acter of the metazonal rugosities is not characteristic of haydeni, as 

 each of the above series contaias specimens in that respect not differ- 

 ing from haydeni, but the femora show them to be cwpidineum. The 

 Grand Junction specimens as a series are more suffused than the 

 Antlers individuals. 



The previous Colorado records of this species are from White river, 

 near the Utah boundary, ^lontrose. Grand Junction and Palisades. 



The specimens taken at Grand Junction were captured on the re- 

 cently inundated silt along the bank of the Grand river where numer- 

 ous specimens were seen. Those from Antlers were captured on the 

 dry cactus and sage plain. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Derotmema haydenii (Thomas). 



Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17, 8 c?, 7 9. Prairie land, 

 Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 3 6^, 4 9,1 immature individual. Knob 

 Hill, Colorado Springs. Aug. 17-22, 8 d", 8 9 . Garden of the Gods, 

 Colorado, Aug. 17 and 2.3, 4 c?, 3 9 . Fort Morgan, Morgan Co., 

 Colorado, Aug. 24, 1 c?, 1 9 . 



Both red and yellow winged forms are represented in this series. 



One of the common prairie species, which I often found in large 

 mimbers about damp depressions in the prairie and on the sandy 

 borders of several shallow ponds. 



MESTOBEEGMA Scudder." 

 Mestobregma plattei (Thomas). 



Austin Bluffs, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. IS, 2 9 . Garden of 

 the Gods, Colorado, Aug. 23, 1 9 . 



But three specimens of this species were seen, although much time 

 was spent searching for additional specimens. The insects were 

 found around stunted pines and bushes growing on cliff-like outcrop- 

 pings in both localities. One specimen had just emerged. The 

 flight of this species is low but swift. 



Mestobregma kiowa (Thomas). 



Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, top of bare hill opposite 

 Devil's Kitchen, Aug. 5, 1 9 . Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Colo- 

 rado, Aug. 18, 2 c?, 3 9 . Austin BlufTs, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 

 1 9 . Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Aug. 17-22, 41 6", 40 9 . Mani- 

 tou, Colorado, Aug. 16 and 23, 3 c?. Ciarden of the Gods, Colorado, 

 Aug. 17, 15 c?, 11 9 . Roggen, Weld Co., Colorado, Aug. 24, 1 9 . 



This large series exliibits the usual amount of variation in macula- 

 tions seen in this species, chiefly in the intensity of those on the head 

 and pronotum and in the line between the discoidal and anal areas of 

 the tegmina. One female from Knob Hill has the anal area of the 

 tegmina sub-roseate. 



" The authors cannot agree -n-itli Prof. Bruner's suppression of the genus 

 Mestobregma (Ent. A'eios, XVI, pp. 259-260) on the grounds that tlie insect on 

 wMch it was erected was not (Edipoda ■plattei Thomas, as stated by Scudder, 

 but one later described by Saussure as Psinidia (Tracliijrhachis) parda- 

 Jiim.. Granting this to be so, the action of the author, and not his intention, 

 should alone be considered, and as Mestobregma wxs based on (Edipoda plattei 

 Thomas, regardless of material in liand, it should rest on that spccifio name. 

 The question of the apphcation of the bird genus Ixoreus Bonaparte is a parallel 

 case, for discussion of which see Sclater, Ibis, 1903, p. 142, the final ruling on 

 which case by the American Ornithologists' Union Committee on Nomenclature 

 (vide Auk, XXI, p. 424) being similar to the opinion expressed above. 




1906.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



An extremely abundant species wherever found, but swarming in 

 certain grassland locations. 



Mestobregma thomasi Caudell, 



St. Louis, ilissom-i, Aug. 27, 3 c^ , 1 9 . 



These specimens are not separable from male individuals from 

 Indiana received from Prof. Blatchley. 



Found in a field overgrown with tall weeds in the city. 



METATOE McNeill. 

 Metator pardalinus (Saussure). 



Waco, Montana, Aug. 4, 1 c?, 3 9 . Ivnob Hill, Colorado Springs, 

 Colorado, Aug. 17 and 22, 1 (5^, 2 9 . Prairie land, Colorado Springs, 

 Aug. 18, 6 c?, 2 9 . 



Of the series here mentioned nine possess red or reddish wings, five 

 yellow wings and one (Colorado Springs, prairie, Aug. 18, 9 ) has the 

 wings orange. The evidence of this material would thus support the 

 view held by Caudell,'- who regards Psinidia maculosa Saussure as 

 merely the yellow winged form of pardalinus, an opinion entertained 

 as possible by Saussure in the original description, his words being, 

 'Amise prtficedentis varietas?" 



The Waco record is the most northern for true pardalinus, but if 

 maculosa is identical the range is extended as far north as Fort McLeod, 

 Alberta. 



The specimens taken at Waco were captured among the sage-brush 

 where the species appeared extremely plentiful. I also found this 

 species plentiful at Colorado Springs, in the prairie wherever there was 

 a damp depression. The insect is not s-«ift of flight and may be 

 easily taken with a net. 



CONOZOA Saussure. 

 Conozoa sulcifrons (Scudder). 



Grand Junction, Mesa Co., Colorado, Aug. 15, 11 cJ*, 12 9 . 



Several specimens of this species were submitted to Mr. A. N. 

 Caudell for comparison with material in the U. S. National JIuseum, 

 and his remarks are quite interesting and worthy of record. In part 

 he wTites: "They are not Conozoa wallula; they are either C. sidcifrons 

 or hehrensi .... I can scarcely tell these species apart. Behrensi is 

 supposed to have shorter wings and elytra, have the median carina of 

 the prozona more deeply cut and have the wing-bands wider. I have 



" Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, p. 790. 




3S2 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMV OF 



[Sept., 



tj-pical specimens of it from California .... these are quite distinct, 

 but a good series before me grades into the sulcifrons form." Speci- 

 mens of behrensi from San Diego and Claremont, California, appear 

 readily separable from the Grand Junction individuals, but these are 

 probably tj^Dical specimens. 



This species has a rather mde distribution, having been recorded 

 from Xogales and the Huachuca mountains, southern Arizona, in 

 addition to the tj-pe locaUty and Grand Junction, Colorado. It would 

 thus appear to be an Upper and Lower Sonoran species. 



I took this species on the bare silt along the banks of the Grand 

 river. In this locality it was plentiful and many specimens could 

 easily have been taken as their flight is short and not %ngorous. The 

 coloration of the insects is imdoubtedly of great protective value. 



TRIMEEOTEOPIS Stil. 

 Trimerotropis bilobata n. sp. 



Tj.'pes: d' and 9 ; .\ntlers, Mesa Co., Colorado, Aug. 15, 1904. 

 Collected by Morgan Hebard. [Hebard Collection.] 



Fig. 11. — Trimerotropis bilobata n. sp. Antlers, Colorado. 



(X 3.) 



Lateral ^•iew of type- 



This species is one of a number which might with almost equal 

 propriety be placed in either Conozoa or Trimerotropis, but which we 

 have placed here chiefly because ^McNeill has considered its allied 

 species as a member of Trimerotropis rather than Conozoa. 



The new form is apparently closely aUied to T. rebellis (Saiissure) 

 and differs in the absence of a distinct projecting process on the ventro- 

 caudal angle of the pronotmii, in the apparently less distinct lateral 




1906.1 



NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



383 



angles of the proiiotum, the more distinct Conozoa-\ike tegminal bars 

 and the color of the caudal femora. 



The great elevation of the prozonal section of the median carina of 

 the pronotuni immediately separates it from most of the species. No 

 close relationship exists to Conozoa ivallula or anj^ of the recently 

 described species of that genus, the whole build being different from 

 that seen in most of the forms of that genus, although C. acuminata 

 approaches it very closely in this respect. 



Size small; form compressed, slender and elongate; surface finely 

 punctate. Head with the occiput considerably elevated, domed; 

 vertex but slightly lower than the summit of the eyes; fastigium 

 strongly declivent, rather broad in both sexes, greatest width very 

 slightly more than the length, lateral margins distinct and very dis- 

 tinctly converging cephalad, passing into the earinse of the frontal 

 costa without interruption, median carina of the fastigium precm-rent, 

 less distinct than the lateral margins of the same; frontal costa rather 

 regularly but not strongly expanding ventrad, the margins sub- 

 parallel for a short distance around the median ocellus, median sections 

 distinct sulcate, less so dorsad, the marginal carina reaching the 

 clypeal margin; antenna; slightly less 

 than twice the length of the head 

 and pronotum, slightly depressed; 

 eye subuvoid, moderately promi- 

 nent particularly in the male, slightly 

 greater than (male) or equal to 

 (female) the length of the infra- 

 ocular sulcus. Pronotvun rather 

 narrow; cephalic margin of the dor- 

 sum very obtuse-angulate, caudal 



margin very slightlj' obtuse-angulate; median carinie cristate on the 

 prozona and strongly divided into two lobes by the first sulcus, the 

 incision being ^^-shaped and quite broad in the male and very narrow 

 in the female, the cephalic lobe is subtrigonal in the male and lower 

 and more longitudinally rounded in the female, second lobe equal to 

 the first lobe in height and rounded dorsad in both sexes; carina of the 

 metazona subcristate in both sexes; prozona about two-thirds the 

 length of the metazona; lateral angles of the disk very distinct, and 

 slightly carinate on the ceishalic section of the metazona; lateral lobes 

 slightly deeper than long, the ventro-caudal angle rounded with a very 

 slight indication of a ventral blunt protuberance. 



Tegmina elongate, narrow, subequal in width, the costal dilation 



-Tumerotropis bilobata n. sp. 

 Wing. (X 2.) 




3S4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



slight and rounded; apex slightly recurved dorsad, rounded obliquely 

 truncate; intercalary vein distinct, about intermediate in position 

 except dorsad where it regularly approaches and joins the median 

 vein. Wings long and narrow, the width being contained twice in 

 the length ; costal margin evenly and very gently arcuate in the distal 

 half; apex very narrowly rounded; axillary field arcuate apically. 

 Caudal femora quite slender, gently tapering, the width contained 

 about tlu-ee and a half times in the length, pregenicular constriction 

 not great, pagina rather flat, the sculpturing regular and quite distinct ; 

 caudal tibite with nine spines on the external margins. 



General colors ecru drab overlaid with bistre in the male, the lighter 

 color on the head and pronotum hoary white. Head with the facial 

 and costal carinse maculate with blackish brown, a large maculation 

 beneath the base of each antenna and the ventral section of the eye 

 marked ^-ith the same color in the male, the ventro-caudal section 

 of the gense being washed with the same tint and a postocular stripe 

 indicated, while the fastigium is marked -ndth pale cinnamon-rufous 

 and a pair of arcuate diverging bars of the same color are present on 

 occiput as well as a blackish interocular bar on the vertex; antennae 

 rather broadly annulate -with the two general colors. Female with 

 the head finely sprinkled with blackish spots with a trace of a light 

 postocular bar. Pronotum of the male with a median bistre area 

 which narrows caudad and the lateral lobes of prozona are strongly 

 washed with bistre, forming a contrast with the hoary metazona. Pro- 

 notum of the female marked much as in the male, but the whole darker 

 and without light colors, while the lateral angles of the disk and a 

 distinct oblique bar on the lateral lobes of the prozona are darker than 

 any of the other pronotal markings. Tegmina with two complete trans- 

 verse bars, one median, one at the proximal fourth and an incomplete 

 bar just distad of the median transverse one, which is broader mesad 

 than at the costal and sutural margins, the bar at the basal foiuth 

 toward the sutural margin approaching the median bar and also 

 extending proximad in the intercalary region; distal third with small 

 irregular maculations which are chiefly along the veins. Wings with 

 the transverse bar bistre and situated in the middle, quite narrow as 

 the width is not quite a third and a little more than a foiu-th of the 

 width of the wing, caudad the band arches very slightly proximad 

 and only slightly suffuses the caudal margin, the stigma broad and 

 heavy and extending about half way to the base; distal section hyaline 

 with the longitudinal veins broadly suffused with bistre towartl the 

 apex; proximal half primrose yellow. Cephalic and median limbs 




1906.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



ecru drab distinctlj' annulate with bistre. Caudal femora ecru drab 

 with three distinct ver}- dark bars and a solidly colored genicular 

 region, the bars being paler laterad than dorsad, the pregenicular 

 annulus ochraceous buff; caudal til^iie rather dull citron yellow touched 

 with spots of fuscous and with the genicidar sections bistre and the 

 tips of the spines blackish. 



Measurements. 



& 9 



Length of body, 17 mm. 24 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.5 " 4.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 18.2 " 26 " 



Length of caudal femur 9.2 " 12.5 " 



A series of one male and two female paratypic specimens have been 

 examined in addition to the types. The paratypic male has the 

 markings slightly more subdued than in the male type. One of the 

 female specimens is marked as in the male type with strongly con- 

 trasted colors, except that the tegmina have the bars somewhat 

 obsolete and the anal area with the veins more strongly lined with 

 dark. The remaining female specimen is colored much the same as 

 the type, except that the bars of the tegmina are slightly less con- 

 spicuous. 



The female type is slightly larger than the paratj-pic individuals of 

 the same sex, while the additional male is slightly larger than the 

 type. 



This species was found in the arid valley of the Grand river near 

 Antlers station, where the only vegetation was a heaxy growth of low^ 

 cactus interspersed with occasional sage. Specimens were by no 

 means uncommon and could have been easily taken in ntimbers had 

 the cactus not interfered so much with collecting, as when alarmed 

 the individuals would invariably seek refuge in the dense beds of 

 cactus. Orthoptera were not present in great numbers at this locality 

 but the few species represented were quite interesting. The species 

 lEolophis chenopodii was the most abundant and most striking. 



Trimerotropis gracilis (Thomas). 



Antlers, Garfield Co., Colorado, Aug. 15, 3 9 . 



This very distinct species has been recorded from localities ranging 

 from central Idaho to Salt Lake 'S'alley and Colorado. Thomas has 

 recorded it also from the northern boundary (49th parallel) of Mon- 

 tana and Dakota, and Scudder includes Neljraska in its range. Caudell 

 has definitely recorded this species from Durango, Colorado, and Gillette 

 credits it to nineteen localities in the same State, the most eastern 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



of which are Greeley and Pueblo, the majority being west of the 

 divide. 



This species was found among the cactus and sage in the dry bottom 

 lands of the Grand river valley. The insects were by no means 

 plentiful and were also extremclj' sh}-. 



Trimerotropis oincta (Thomas). 



Manitou, Colorado, 6,700-7,000 feet, Aug. 23, 11 d", 4 9 . 



The above series shows considerable variation in the strength of the 

 median carina of the fastigium, some individuals having it strongly 

 marked and in others it is hardly perceptible. The color of the caudal 

 tibise is quite variable in this species, as already noticed by McNeill, 

 and the series in hand exliibits the following: ten with the distal tliree- 

 fourths of the caudal tibia; greenish j^ellow, four with the same bluish 

 green, and one red. 



According to Gillette this species is found in the mountains and foot- 

 hills of Colorado at altitudes ranging between 6,000 and 10,000 feet, 

 and on both slopes of the divide. In his series of ninety-five speci- 

 mens the hind tibise were without exception bluish or j'ellowisli on 

 the distal portion. The species has been recorded from Nebraska, in 

 addition to New Mexico and Colorado. The collection of the Academj- 

 contains specimens from Salida, Manitou Park and Fort Collins (Horse- 

 tooth Mountain), Colorado. 



This species was plentiful on a path among stunted pines on the 

 upper slopes of the foothills back of Manitou. The location would 

 have made it particularly difficult to captiu-e specimens had not the 

 individuals apparently trusted to their protective coloration. A close 

 approach was necessary to cause them to take wing. 



Trimerotropis ferruginea JlcXeill. 



Dailcys, Park Co., ilontana, Aug. 4, 1 o'. Sphinx, Park Co., Mon- 

 tana, Aug. 4, 3 c?, 2 9 . Spire Rock, Montana, Aug, 12, 1 6" ("on 

 bare mountain"). Upper Geyser Basin, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 7,4 c'. 



The specimen from Spire Rock is assigned to this species with con- 

 siderable doubt, as it is larger and has a rather different facies, but 

 does not appear to be any closely allied form. The males from Upper 

 Geyser Basin appear rather different from the Daileys and Sphinx 

 specimens, being a little smaller and more like the Spire Rock individual 

 in their somewhat more robust form, though considerably smaller size. 

 This species is probably little more than a form of bifasciata, and hardly 

 worthy of a name in view of the great amount of individual variation 

 found in most of the species of the genus. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



This species was found in rather bare mountainous sections and on 

 the formation about the larger Yellowstone geysers. 

 Trimerotropis montioola Saussure. 



Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 1 ? . Summit 

 of foothills, Mammoth Hot Springs, Aug. 5, 1 c?. 



These specimens agree quite well with Nebraska, Colorado and 

 Wyoming specimens in the collection of the Academy. The specimens 

 examined present considerable variation in the length of the tegmina. 



This appears to be the first record of the species north of Colorado, 

 except Tie-Siding, Wyoming, from which locality Gillette has recorded 

 it. 



These specimens were taken in the more hilly portions about the 

 Mammoth Hot Springs, where, on account of the character of the 

 country, they were captured with difficidty. The individuals fly 

 swiftly and for long distances when alarmed. 



Trimerotropis praeolara McNeill. 



Grand Junction, Mesa Co., Colorado, Aug. 15, 5 c?, 1 9 . 



This species has the fuscous band of the wing very broad, slightly 

 more than one-thiixl the length of the same, and well continued around 

 on the caudal margin, whUe the spm- is almost absent, the disk very 

 pale greenish yellow, and the apex hyaline except for the infuscation 

 of some of the veins. 



The light base color is almost bone white in some specimens, and 

 distinctly washed with rufous in others. 



This species is known only from Salt Lake, Utah, and Sidney, Ne- 

 braska, in addition to the locality here given. 



Among the bushes growing in the silt deposit along the banks of the 

 Grand river these specimens were secured. The species was by no 

 means as plentiful as T. montana, which was found in the same locality. 



Trimerotropis laticincta Saussure. 



Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17, 6 c?, 5 9 . luiob Hill, Colorado 

 Springs, Aug. 18-22. 7 o", 4 9 . 



This series exhibits considerable variation in the intensity of the 

 bands of the tegmina, and in the shade of the light basic color. In 

 some the latter is decidedly reddish, in others pale yellowish, and in 

 the majority dull ochraceous. The caudal tibise are more orange in 

 some specimens than in others, and the pronotum varies from dull 

 ferruginous through warm browns to dull olive, and in one specimen dull 

 bl ackish-bro w n . 



As far as can be determined from the material in hand Scudder's 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



T. latifasciata from Utah is the same as this, and his name would have 

 precedence. However, as no Utah material is available I prefer to 

 use Saussiire's name, provisionally at least, for specimens from eastern 

 Colorado. 



The evidence given by Cockerell " regarding the difference in color 

 characters of individvials of this species taken in coitu is especially 

 interesting in view of the value which has been attached to the char- 

 acters there mentioned, i.e., bands on the inner face of the caudal 

 femora, and the width and curve of the wing band. Not much lati- 

 tude is needed in these characters to connect forms like latidnda and 

 latifasciata and mdano-ptera. Gillette does not consider latifasciata 

 and laticincta separable from T. citrina.^* 



This species has been recorded from Fort Collins, Montrose, Grand 

 Junction, Denver, Baileys and Golden, Colorado, by Caudell. 



One of the more common of the larger prairie land species. The 

 flight of this insect was less vigorous than is usual in species of the 

 genus. 



Trimerotropis melanoptera McNeill. 



Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 18, 1 c?. Knob Hill, Colorado 

 Springs, Aug. 17 and IS, 2 o^, 1 9. Prairie laud, Colorado Springs, 

 Aug. 18, 1 d'. 



Two of these specimens agree well in the color of the tegmina with a 

 topotypic (Silver City) male, while three have the bars more prominent 

 and contrasting with the lighter base color. The metazona of the 

 pronotum is paler than the prozona in these three specimens, and in 

 two of them the contrast is as great as in T. monticola. The black 

 areas of the wings appear to be slightly less extensive than the 

 specimens described by McNeill. The senior author's T. snowi '' may 

 prove to be but a form of this with a less extensive black area on the 

 wings. From the material then in hand it appeared well worthy of 

 separation, but the additional material shows variability which 

 weakens its status. 



This species was scarce even on the prairie land which appeared to 

 be its favorite habitat. In habits it much resembled T. laticincta. 



Trimerotropis strenua McNeill. 



Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13 and 14, 4 6^, 8 9 . 



This species is very close to T. californica Bruner, and probably 



" Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci. IX, p. 38. 



» BuU. 94. Colo. Agr. Exp Sla., pp. 3.5-36. 



'5 Trans. Kansas Acad. Sci., XIX, p. 223. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



should be considered nothing more tlian a race of it. The bars of the 

 tegmina are usuallj^ somewhat narrower and the caudal tibiae not quite 

 so deep in color. The majority of the specimens have a more or less 

 distinct ferruginous or ochraceous wash suffusing the tegmina, while 

 several have the lighter sections -Rdthout the same, and clear bone white 

 in color as in the pair of californica used for comparison. A pair of 

 specimens from Salt Lake Valley, received from Prof. Bruner, and 

 labelled by him T. prceclara, belong to this species. Some of the 

 specimens examined have the tegminal bars more distinct and less 

 broken into spots than others, while the width also varies as much as 

 the intensity. A female indi\ddual of this species from Salt Lake 

 Cit_y, in the collection of the Academy," has the tegminal bars much 

 broken into annuli. 



In nine of the specimens examined a second median bar on the lateral 

 face of the caudal femora is more or less distiiictlj' indicated, while 

 in six it is absent or represented only by a very faint clouding. 



This beautiful species was quite common in the arid sage-brush 

 region on the outskirts of Salt Lake City and tlie series was taken with 

 ease. In spite of the insect's bold coloring it was most inconspicuous 

 when at rest. 



Trimerotropis montana McNeill. 



Grand Junction, Mesa Co., Colorado, Aug. 15, 10 c?, 4 9 . 



This species, if such it might be called, is very closely allied to the 

 preceding, as has been stated by McNeill." As far as the material 

 in hand goes it appears to be only a more subdued form, with the dark 

 tegminal bars broader and pale areas more ochraceous and in a measure 

 lacking the strong contrast seen in strenua. The character of the 

 median carina of the fastigium and the proportions of the pronotimi 

 do not differ from the series of strenua, while the lateral face of the 

 caudal femora in the greater majority have a median band more or 

 less faintly indicated in addition to the constant subapical one. 



This species has been previously recorded from Durango and Delta, 

 Colorado, in addition to Grand Junction, as well as Boise City, Idaho 

 the type locality. 



These insects were taken on the banks of the Grand river, on ground 

 that had been recently inundated. The soil was sandy and clusters of 

 tall bushes grew here and there. The specimens were active and not 

 taken ^nthout difSculty. 



" Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXMI, p. 333. 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXIII, p. 433. 

 26 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Trimerotropis salina McNeill. 



Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17, 1 c?. Knob Hill, Colorado 

 Springs, Aug. 17, 3 9 . 



These specimens are slightly larger than the measvirements given by 

 McNeill, but we have placed them here chiefly on account of the poorly 

 contrasted tegminal bars and the broad wing band. The lateral face 

 of the caudal femora presents a median bar of varying intensity in 

 several specimens. The coloration (i.e., blackish bars and suffusion) 

 of the ventral sulcus of the caudal femora appears to be too variable 

 to be given the prominence assigned to it by McNeill. The male 

 individual here studied would be placed in another section of the 

 vinculata group on the femoral coloration, while it unquestionably is 

 the same as the three females which have the coloration as described 

 by McNeill. Instances such as this are by no means confined to this 

 species, but can be found in most any large series of a species of the 

 genus. 



Trimerotropis frateroula McNeill. 



DaUeys, Park Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 13 c?, 6 9 . Sphinx, Park Co., 

 Montana, Aug. 4, 1 9 . Fountain, Lower Geyser Basin, Yellowstone 

 Park, Aug. 6, 6 6^, 6 9. Upper Geyser Basin, Yellowstone Park, 

 Aug. 7, 3 c?, 4 9 . Mud Volcano, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 10, 1 c?. 

 Emerald Spring, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 7, 1 9 . Yellowstone Lake, 

 Yellowstone Park, Aug. 7 and 10, 1 c?, 1 9 . 



This series is assigned to this species with some little doubt. Some 

 affinity exists with T. inconspicua Bruner, at least as far as puljlished 

 diagnostic characters are concerned. The coloration of the ventral 

 sulcus of the caudal femora varies in individuals from the same locality 

 and not separable by any other character. Some present a solid 

 blackish sulcus with a distinct light pregenicular annulus, others have 

 a well-marked additional light median bar, and a nimiber of specimens 

 have the black interrupted on the sides of the sulcus but undi^'ided in 

 the middle. The evidence of this series of forty-three specimens of 

 unquestionably but one species is that the coloration of the sulcus 

 of the caudal femora is of little or no diagnostic importance. The 

 coloration of the lateral and internal faces of the caudal femora are 

 also unstable, in the authors' opinion, while the intensity of the tegminal 

 bars and the width of the wing bars are by no means as stalDle as would 

 be supposed from the importance given them as diagnostic characters. 



The series studied presents some variation in size, the males from 

 Fountain being somewhat larger than males from Daileys (length 

 including tegmina: Fountain 28.5 mm., Daileys 25), while the Mud 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Volcano and Upper Gej^ser Basin males are slighth' smaller than 

 the Daileys specimens (24 mm.). The females appear to be rather 

 uniform in size. Three of the four females from Upper Geyser Basin 

 are suffused with rufescent, while the other female and three males 

 from the same locality are without any suffusion. The females from 

 Fountain have the colors more contrasted than the majority of the 

 Daileys females, while the Emerald Spring female has the contrast 

 just as great. The males from Fountain have the pale tints more 

 grayish and less ochraceous than in the Daile}-s males. 



The species was so abimdant about Daileys that during the brief 

 stop of the train nineteen specimens were easily taken. This was also 

 the most abundant species of Orthoptera found about the gej^ser for- 

 mations of the Park. The insects are wary and rise on the wing with 

 speed. The coloration of the individuals almost invariably blended 

 exactly with the soil on which they were found. 

 Trimerotropis vinoulata Scudder. 



Electric, Park Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 1 c?. Muir, Bozeman Tunnel, 

 jMontana, Aug. 12, 1 9 . ^\^litehall, Jefferson Co., Montana, Aug. 12, 

 1 d^, 3 9 . Upper Geyser Basin, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 7, 1 9 . 

 Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 14, 1 9 . Antlers, Garfield Co., Colorado, 

 Aug. 15, 1 o'. Debeciue, Mesa Co., Colorado, Aug. 15, 1 c?. Austin 

 Bluffs, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 18, 2 9 . Manitou, Colorado, 

 6,700-7,000 feet, Aug. 23, 4 d", 4 9 . Garden of the Gods, Colorado, 

 Aug. 19, 2 o . 



This series represents a great and interesting amount of variation 

 even for this plastic species, ^'ariation in size is considerable, the 

 largest males being from Electric, Debeque and Manitou, the smallest 

 from Antlers ; the largest female from Salt Lake City, the smallest from 

 Austin Bluffs. These differences in size appear to be individual, 

 as the smallest male (Antlers) is from the same general region as the 

 largest (Debeque). The specimens from Muir and Wliitehall, ilon- 

 tana, are large, of rather imiforni size, and but little smaller than the 

 large Salt Lake City individual. 



In coloration we find such variation that a detailed account may be 

 of interest. The Electric specimen has the bands solid and the lighter 

 colors hoary and sharply contrasted; the iluir and A^liitehall repre- 

 sentatives are quite dull, the Muir specimen almost blackish, while the 

 bands are onh' moderately distinct, in one of the Wliitehall individuals 

 broken up into amiidi. The Muir and "WTiitehall type has the pro- 

 notum with Uttle contrast, and the caudal femora less variegated than 

 in the Electric individual. The Yellowstone specimen is overcast with 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



dull hoary, the bands veiy weak, narrow and broken into annuli, the 

 whole insect being much duller and more inconspicuous than the usual 

 type. The Salt Lake City female has the bands of about average 

 width, but weak and rather broken. Antlers and Debeque specimens 

 are of the tjq^e which might be called normal or typical, with the bands 

 distinct, broad and solid, and the lateral lobes of the pronotimi moder- 

 ately variegated. Austin Bluffs specimens are overcast with reddish 

 ochraceous, one with the bands more distinct and solid than the other; 

 Manitou individuals overcast with dull red, the bands variable in 

 intensity and solidity, but not in width, one specimen having the bands 

 quite lilackish. The Garden of the Gods speckneiis are particularlj^ 

 interesting, being entirelj^ washed with brick red, the tegminal bands 

 distinct but narrower than usual. 



The Garden of the Gods specimea? are very interesting as the suffus- 

 ing tint is the predominating color of that region, and in line with this 

 one would expect a uniform very pale type from strongly alkaline 

 regions, which does not hold true of the large amount of material of 

 this species seen. Series from San Diego, California, one of the original 

 localities; Alamogordo, New Mexico, and Quartzsite, Arizona, are 

 extremely variable among themselves, and each exliibit extremes as 

 different, or nearly so, as those in the material hero treated. How- 

 ever, no specimens quite as reddish as the Garden of the Gods indi\adual 

 have been seen from other localities. The band of the wing is quite 

 narrow and weak in some of the JIanitou specimens,'* and heavy in 

 Whitehall and Jlulr individuals. 



The species was generally distributed and equally abundant in the 

 localities in which it was collected. The specimens taken about the 

 Garden of the Gods showed remarkable protective coloration, as all 

 were overcast with brick red which blended exacth' witli the character- 

 istic brick red formation of the Garden. This was the onl}^ species 

 found on these outcroppings. 

 Trimerotropis coeruleipennis Bruner. 



Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13, 2 d", 1 9. Top of Ensign Peak, 

 Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13, 1 c?, 2 ? . 



These specimens of this beautiful species have the tegminal bars 

 uniform in pattern and var\-ing but slightly in intensity, except in the 

 female from Salt Lake City in which they are quite dark. The colora- 

 tion of the ventral sidcus of the caudal femora varies from black with 

 two light bars in the distal half to but one bar in the region, while in 



" These maj' possibly represent one of the other species of the rinculata group 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



several specimens the evanescent bar (proximal) is present but incom- 

 plete. The coloration of the caudal tibiae varies from the usual light 

 tint to a (lark glaucous blue. The size of the specimens is quite 

 luiiform. 



This species has been recorded from Washington (Yakima), Oregon, 

 (Umatilla), Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah and Los Angeles, 

 California. 



This species was found in the same locations as T. cyaneipennis, 

 which species it much resembled in habits. 

 Trimerotropis cyaneipennis Bruner. 



Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13, -1 6^, 4 9 . Foothills, Salt Lake City, 

 Utah, Aug. 14, 3 6^,2 9. 



This series is quite uniform in size, while variation in coloration is 

 chiefly due to the intensity of the broken tegminal bars, though one 

 specimen from Salt I^ake City is uniformly very pale with most of the 

 markings almost obsolete. 



This species has been recorded from the Salt Lake Valley region, 

 antl from Grand Canon, Flagstaff and Prescott, Ai'izona. The two 

 males recorded from Prescott are very considerably darker than any 

 of the Salt Lake A'alley specimens examined. 



This species was somewhat common but inhabited the most inacces- 

 sible portions of Ensign Peak, and owing to the rapidity of its flight 

 specimens were taken with no little trouble. 



CIECOTETTIX Scudder. 

 Cirootettix oarliniauus (Thomas). 



Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 1 9 . 

 Cirootettix undulatus (Thomas). 



.Manitou, Colorado, 6,400 and 6,700 feet, Aug. 23, 1 6^, 1 9 . Pike's 

 Peak, Mountain View, 9,700 feet, Aug. 20, 1 c?, 1 9 . Cripple Creek, 

 Teller Co., Colorado, Aug. 19, 4 6". 



These specimens have been compared with a series of twenty speci- 

 mens from localities in the mountain regions of New Mexico, and one 

 from Utah. Manitou individuals are more reddish than those from 

 the other localities. 



This species was nowhere abundant, but several specimens were 

 found on the tailings about Cripple Creek mines. 

 Cirootettix rabnla"n. sp. 



Types: d^ and 9 ; summit of hill at head of springs, Mammoth Hot 



" I.e., a jangling fellow. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Springs, Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming; altitude 7,000 feet, 

 Aug. 5, 1904. (M. Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Allied to C. undulatus (Thomas) and shaslanus Bruner, but differing 

 from the former in the more robust form, the broader head, broader 

 heavier and less strongly sulcate frontal costa, larger eyes, slightly less 

 angiilate caudal margin of the pronotum and in details of the coloration. 

 as the lighter and usually more variegated tegmina and pronotum and 

 the less distinct fuscous band and spui- of the wing. From shastanus 

 it appears to differ in the heavier form and the structure of the first 

 subjacent radial vein. 



The form of the wing of this species is essentially that of C. undulatus, 

 and its closest relationship ap]5ears to be with that species. As 

 shastanus is not available for study, comparison can onh' be made with 

 descriptions, but the results of such comparisons seem sufficient to 

 separate the specimens in hand, especially when we consider the 

 peculiar structure of the first subjacent radial in the older species, 

 while in the new one here treated the structm-e of that region does not 

 differ materially from the type seen in undulatus. 



In coloration a number of specimens of this species bear a striking 

 superficial resemblance to C. carlinianus. 



Size medium; form quite robust; surface finely rugulose. Head 

 with the occiput gentlj' but distinctly arched, the interocular region 

 no more elevated than the summits of the eyes and in width but little 

 less than the length of the eye; fastigium slightly declivent, forming 

 an obtuse angle with the face, nearly as wide as long, shallow, with the 

 median carina rather faint and the marginal carinas but little more 

 distinct; frontal costa broad, expanded between the antennae and 

 moderately constricted iimnediately ventrad of the ocellus, margins 

 carinate and nearly (c?) or not (?) reaching the clypeal margin, 

 broadly sulcate ventrad of the ocellus particularly in the male, strongly 

 punctate dorsad with a depressed area at the jimction with the fasti- 

 gium; eyes moderately prominent, rather small, very broad ovoid in 

 shape ; antennae slightly longer than the head and pronotum together, 

 somewhat depressed in the proximal section. Pronotum deplanate 

 dorsad, broad, distinctly expanded caudad; cephalic margin very 

 broadly and obtusely angulate; caudal margin rectangulate in the 

 male, obtuse-angulate in the female, the angle finely formetl and little 

 rounded in either sex; lateral angles rounded and hardly marked on 

 the prozona, distinct and heavy shoulders present on the metazona; 

 median carina fine, little elevated, depressed at the principal sidcus, 

 prozona about half the length of the metazona; lateral lobes slightly 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



deeper than long, considerably impressed mesad, ventro-caudal angle 

 rounded. Teginina rather broad, the greatest mdth contained 

 slightly more than four times in the length ; costal lobe very shght and 

 low, sutural margin straight, apex obliquely truncate toward the 

 sutural margin, the distal thhd of the costal margin arcuate, making 

 the immediate apes rounded rectangulate; intercalary vein distinct, 

 intermediate in position proxLmad, close to the median vein distad. 

 Wings moderately falcate, broad, the breadth being contained about 

 once and a half in the length; humeral field with the apex rounded 

 acute-angulate; axillary field with the margin very slightly arcuate 

 and not lobate, being no more prominent than the next area in the 

 radiate field ; posterior axillary vein with its ramus paralleling closely 

 the anterior axillary vein for a considerable distance, but not coalescing 

 with it; radiate veins moderately thickened. Caudal femora rather 

 slender, the ventral carina distinctly but slightly produced arcuate; 

 caudal tibiaB with nine spines on the lateral margins. 



General color ecru drab, sprinkled, spotted and blotched with drab; 

 ej-es burnt imiber; antenna of the paler color annulate with bistre; 

 dorsimi of the pronotum and the lateral lobes marked with the darker 

 color. Tegmina ■ndth traces of tliree bands of quadrate and ocellate 

 spots, these spots being almost wholly formed by the infuscation 

 veins and cross veins, the bands being proximad, proximo-mesad and 

 disto-mesad, while the distal third is supplied with scattered quadrate 

 oceUi of the darker color. Wings with the transverse band very weak 

 and almost severed, being chiefly an infascation of veins and without 

 definite hmits, extending caudo-mesad and with a broad, moderately 

 distinct stigma which extends half way to the base, the color of the band 

 and stigma being drab ; distal portion hyaline except for infuscate veins, 

 proximal portion citron yellow. Cephalic and median limbs of the 

 general colors annulate ; caudal femora with a pale pregenicular annulus, 

 and with traces of two transverse bars wiiich are more distinct dorsad ; 

 caudal tibiae pale, infuscate proximad and distad, the spines touched 

 apically with blackish. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 27.5 mm. 29.7 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 6.4 " 6 " 



Length of tegmen, 29.5 " 28.7 " 



Length of caudal femur, 13 " 13.2 " 



A series of ten specimens in the Hebard Collection have been ex- 

 amined in addition to the types: five, two males and three females, 




396 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



from the t3rpe locality and date but taken on geyser formation at the 

 upper end of the springs, one male from the immediate vicinity of the 

 Hot Springs, August 5, another male from the summit of the first foot- 

 hill of the Gallatin Range at the type locality, August 5, and one 



Fig. 13. — Circotetiix rahula n. sp. Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park. 

 Lateral view of female type. (X 3.) 



female from Spire Rock, jNIontana, August 12. These specimens vary 

 slightly in the strength of the tegminal bars, which are partially solid 



in some specimens, but all other 

 characters appear to agree well 

 with the t3'pes. 



Two males and two females 

 received from Prof. Gillette and 

 labelled C. verruculatus are ref- 

 erable to this new form. They 

 are from Dutch George's and 

 Virginia Dale, Larimer Co., 

 Colorado. 



This species was by no means 

 plentiful about the Hot Springs 

 and much time was occupied in collecting the ten specimens. The insects 

 are most swift and shy, so that great difficulty was experienced in 



Fig. 14. — Circotetiix rabula n. sp. 

 (X2.) 



Wing. 




1906.] NAITTRAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 397 



approaching them close enough to strike with the net. They may be 

 heard high in the air making for several minutes at a time a noise like 

 the whirring of machinery. The sound is continuous while the insects 

 rise and fall in a most peculiar erratic flight. I have seen specimens of 

 this species fly for over a quarter of a mile making continually this 

 peculiar sound. Of all the Orthoptera met with this was without 

 doubt the most vigorous and elusive species. 



Cirootettix suffusus CScudder). 



Simnnit of foothill of Gallatin Range, Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellow- 

 stone Park, Aug. 5, 1 $ . Hill at head of springs, JMammoth Hot 

 Springs, Aug. 5, 1 c?. Upper Geyser Basin, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 

 5,6(5^,2 9,1 nymph. 



These specimens are rather uniform in color for representatives of 

 this genus, one being more clear grayish than the others, and several 

 with a faint suggestion of ferruginous in their general tone. 



About the Hot Springs this species was found in the open sage- 

 brush of the hillsides, while at the Upper Geyser basin it was found in 

 the small grassy openings in the dense pine woods. 

 Cirootettix verruoulatus (Kirby).™ 



Muir, Bozeman Tunnel, Gallatin-Park Co., Montana, Aug. 12, 1 c?, 

 1 9. 



These specimens do not differ in size, the female, however, being 

 slightly more robust. The frontal costa in the male is quite broad and 

 similar to the female, thus differing from a large nmnber of Eastern 

 specimens examined. A series of thirty-one specmiens, covering 

 localities extending from the mountain regions of Pennsylvania and 

 Maine west to the northern peninsula of Michigan (Pequaming), shows 

 that while considerable variation in color and size is present in a series, 

 it caimot well be correlated with locality. The two ilontana specimens 

 are among the largest seen. 



These two specimens were taken on a cinder pile beside the railroad. 

 Their crackling was very noticeable whenever they took flight. 



HADEOTETTIX Scudder. 

 Hadrotettiz trifasoiatus (Say). 

 Sappington, Gallatin Co., Montana, Aug. 12, 1 c^ . Colorado Springs, 



" The type of this species was taken in ' ' Latitude 57° N., " and in all probability 

 was collected by Drummond, who traversed the Athabasca and Peace river 

 region in tliis latitude in western Athabasca and northeastern British Columbia. 

 If collected by Richardson, the other naturahst of the Franldin expedition, it 

 was no doubt taken either in the \'icinitv of York Factorv, Keewatin or on the 

 Athabasca river south of Lake Athabasca. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Colorado, Aug. 17, 2 d". Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Aug. 17 and 

 IS, 4 c?, 6 9 . Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 7 cJ', 10 9 . 



These specimens exhibit considerable variation in the intensity and 

 width of the bands of. the tegmina in the female, some ha^'ing them 

 very weak and broken up into spots, while a few have them as distinct 

 as in the males. The males are quite vuiiform in the coloration of the 

 tegmina, both in width of bars and intensity. 



This species was quite common on the prairie. The flight is slow 

 and specimens may be easily captured even without a net. 



BKACHYSTOLA Scudder. 

 Brachystola magna (Girard). 



Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. IS, 9 cJ', 4 9,1 nymph. ICnob 

 Hill, Colorado Springs, Aug. 17, 5 c?, 1 nymph. Prau-ie land, Colorado 

 Springs, Aug. 18 and 19, 2 6", 6 9,1 nj-mph. 



This series of thu-tj- specimens clearly shows that the species has two 

 color phases and that the green phase should not be confused with 

 Charpentier's B. rirescens. a Mexican species of a quite distinct char- 

 acter, as an examination of his plate will show. Of the series examined 

 eight are of the brown phase and twenty-one of the green, while one 

 is too discolored to determine its true color. The green specimens 

 vaiy considerabl}' in the shade of the green, but the males appear to 

 have the richer coloration. 



There is considerable variation in the size of the males. 



The following color description is made from a female specimen in 

 the green phase from Colorado Springs received alive in Philadelphia 

 and carefully stuffed after death, to-day presenting the same coloration 

 as in life. 



Predominating color oil green. Head dark oil green above becoming 

 paler ventrad on the face and gence, the caudal margin of the gense, 

 the mandibles and broad band extending from cephalad of the eye 

 ventrad to the clypeal sulcus and the lateral portions of the clypeus 

 pale flesh color; eyes clay color sprinkled ■with bistre; ahtemise dusky, 

 margined laterad in the proximal section with pale greenish. Pro- 

 notum with the lateral and median carinse marked mth very dark 

 French green, on the metazona extending slightly ventrad and some- 

 what suffusing the lateral lobes; lateral carinse bordered mesad by a 

 line of pinkish %dnaceous; recurved caudal and lateral lobe margins 

 chiefly flesh color. Tegmina tawny ochraceous with fair-sized bistre 

 spots well distributed over them. Abdomen suffused -ndth bistre 

 dorsad ; a pair of rather broad distinct longitudinal lines, one on each 

 side of the median carina, and a transverse series of spots on the caudal 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



margia of each segment, vinaceous. Venter bone white. Cephahc 

 and median Umbs bone white washed with greenisli. Caudal femora 

 oil green dorsad, whitish ventrad, the ventro-lateral sulcus with 

 quadrate touches of vinaceous-rufous, while the internal face is suffused 

 with the same color, a median line of French green is present on the 

 lateral face and one of brick red on the internal face, genicular region 

 bluish green dorsad, with a proximal transverse blackish bar ventrad, 

 the arches chestnut ; caudal tibiiE lavender laterad, vinaceous internally, 

 the genicular region bluish, the spines bone white tipped with black. 



This species was by no means abundant, but in the prairie region 

 specimens would every now and then be found. The insects were so 

 awkward that they seemed to have almost no control over then- move- 

 ments. Their coloration, however, undoubtedly pro\-es a great pro- 

 tection to them. 



LOCUSTIN.E. 



PAR0P0MA.1A Scudder. 

 Paropomala wyomingensia (Thomas). 



1871. Mesops wyomingetisis Thomas, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871, 

 p. 152. [.4jong the east base of the Black Hills, in the \-icimty of Cotton- 

 wood Creek, FaU River Co., South Dakota, or Converse Co., Wyoming.] 



1890. Mesops cylindriciis Bruner, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XII. p. 48. [Valen- 

 tine, Nebraska, along the north side of Keya Paha creek, also on the bluffs 

 south of Chadrou, Nebraska.] 



Roggen, Weld Co., Colorado, Aug. 24, 6 c?, 1 9 . 



As far as can be determined from the material in liand, including 

 specimens determined by Bruner as both ivyomingensis and cylindricus, 

 and the literatiu'e bearing on the subject, no reason is apparent for 

 separating the two above-mentioned forms. Bruner's cylindricus was 

 based on the brown phase, while in addition to the coloration larger 

 size was given as a differential character. This latter would appear to 

 be pmely an individual matter, as green specimens have been examined 

 nearly as large as Bruner's measurements of that sex in cylindricus. 

 All the Roggen males are in the brown phase, and the single female in 

 the green. 



Material has also been examined from ^'alentine and Haigler, 

 Nebraska, and Denver and Greelej', Colorado. 



These specimens were beaten from some very tall weeds near the 

 railroad track, while the train was making a brief stop. 



SCHISTOCERCA Stdl. 

 Schistooerca lineata Scudder. 



Brush, Morgan Co., Colorado, Aug. 24, 1904, 1 c?. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



This individual is much smaller than the males measured by Scudder. 

 Gillette -^ has called attention to the variation in size in this species. 

 Beaten from thicket of weeds. 



HESPEROTETTIX Scudder. 

 Hesperotettix viridis (Thomas). 



Ivnob Hill. Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. IS, 1 9 . Prairie land, 

 Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 1 c?, 2 9. Hill near cog-road station, 

 Manitou, Colorado, Aug. 16, 2 9 . 



These specimens vary considerably in size, the JIanitou females 

 being larger than any of the others, and similar to two from Aiizona 

 and New ]\Iexico, while seven specimens from five other Colorado 

 localities are in size about equal to the Colorado Springs indiviiluals. 

 The coloration varies very little, and then only in the intensity of the 

 blackish head and pronotal markings. 



This species was found distributed over a considerable region, but 

 was in no place common. 



Hesperotettix festivus Scudder. 



Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13 and 14, 10 d^, 11 9 . Hillside at Salt 

 Lake City, Aug. 14, 1 c? , 1 9 . Top of Ensign Peak, Salt Lake City, 

 Aug. 13, 2 c?, 2 9. 



This series as a whole has shorter wings than nine individuals from 

 southern Ai'izona, and in consequence of this the specimens appear 

 somewhat more robust. The variation in size in the females is con- 

 siderable, the larger type greatly predominating, while the males 

 vary appreciably. The coloration tends in some specimens toward 

 brownish and in a few is distinctly brown. This is also true of a male 

 Salt Lake City specimen -- which has been in the Academy collection 

 quite a time. 



This species was by far the most plentiful of the genus Hesperotettix 

 which I found, and individuals were quite common in the sage growing 

 from the foot to the top of Ensign Peak. Individuals of the species 

 were very active, but relied chiefly for protection on their jumping 

 ability, which was very considerable. 



Hesperotettix gillettei Bruner.-' 



Newcastle, Garfield Co., Colorado, Aug. 15, 1 9 . 

 This recently described species is only known from the Grand river 

 drainage. 



" Bull. 94, Colo. Agric. Exp. Sta., p. 38. 

 "July 24, 1898. 



"■^ Hesperolettix Gillettei Bruner, Bull. 04. Colo. Agr. Exp. Sta., p. 61, 1904. 

 [Rifle, Glenwood Springs, Delta and Grand Junction, Colorado.] 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



During a brief stop of the train at Newcastle, I succeeded in captur- 

 ing a single specimen of this species in the dust beside the railroad 

 track. 



Hesperotettix speciosus (Scudder). 



Akron, Washington Co., Colorado, Aug. 24, 1 d^. 



The median carina of the pronotum of this specimen is deep maroon 

 purple, which depth of coloration is almost equalled in a male from 

 Rocky Ford, Colorado. 



The specimen was beaten from tall weeds. 



5;0L0PLUS Scudder. 

 .ffioloplus regalis (Dodge). 



Fort ilorgan, Morgan Co., Colorado, Aug. 24, 1 c?. 



A single specimen was beaten from low bushy weeds growing densel_v 

 about a water tank. Mgorous beating for several minutes failed to 

 produce other specimens. 



.Eoloplus ohenopodii (Bniner). 



Antlers, Garfield Co., Colorado, Aug. 15, 11 (J', 14 9 . 



This series varies considerably in the intensity of the coloration) 

 some individuals being more ashy than others. 



The specimens were easilj^ taken in spite of the cactus, in which they 

 invariabl}'^ sought refuge, for their movements were slow and the}' could 

 jump but a short distance. The species was abundant. 



BSADYNOTES Scudder. 

 Bradynotes obesa (Thomas). 



Summit of first foothill behind hotel, Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellow- 

 stone Park, Aug. 5, 1 9 . Top of bare hill opposite Devil's Kitchen, 

 Mammoth Hot Springs, Aug. 5, 1 o", 2 9 . 



Although much time was spent searching carefully for specimens of 

 this species, two days' collecting residted in but four specimens being 

 fomid. All were taken on the gravelly tops of the foothills where 

 vegetation was almost absent. Their color blended perfectly with the 

 soil and they appeared to rely on this as a means of protection. 



PODISMA Latreille. 

 Podisma dodgei (Thomas). 



Pike's Peak, Colorado, at elevations of 9,700 (^fountain View) and 

 10,200 feet, Aug. 20, 2 d", 1 9 . 



These specimens and the specimen of Hippiscus altivolus were 

 the only Orthoptera seen in the rather barren tract of stunted aspen 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



above the railroad pumping station. This species seemed to be strictly 

 terrestrial in habitat. 

 Podisma oreas-' n. sp. 



T^-pes : c? and 9 ; smnnut of foothill of Gallatin Range, Mammoth 

 Hot Springs, Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming. Altitude, 7,000 

 feet. Aug. 5, 1904. [Coll. Morgan Hebard.] 



Closely allied to P. ascensor Scudder from American Fork Canon. 

 Utah, agreeing almost perfectly in the form of the abdominal append- 

 ages and other characters, but differing in the vertex being somewhat 

 elevated, the interspace between the eyes in the male over twice as 

 broad as the fu-st antennal joint, the frontal costa more sulcata, the 

 size slightly larger, the antennce reddish and the caudal tibiae differently 

 colored. 



Size medimii (for the genus). Head with the occiput rounded and 

 distinctly elevated above the pronotum in the c?, hardly elevated in 

 the 9 ; fastigium inoderately declivent, very shallowly and broadly 

 excavated, interspace between the eyes in both sexes over twice as 

 wide as the proximal joint of the antennae; frontal costa broad, hardly 

 (c?) or very slightly (9) narrower than the interspace between the 

 eyes, slightly depressed around the ocellus, not sulcate, biseriate 

 punctate dorsad; antennte rather short, defective in the d^, distinctly 

 but not considerably longer than the pronotum in the 9 ; eyes hardly 

 prominent, truncate cephalad, distinctly longer than the intraocular 

 sulcus. Pronotum very slightly inflated, very slightly tectate, meta- 

 zona finely punctate; cephalic margin subtruncate, caudal margin very 

 slightly arcuate, no distinct lateral carinas but shoulder angles moder- 

 ately prominent caudad; prozona slightly longer than the metazona 

 in both sexes, quadrate in the o', slightlj' transverse in the 9 , principal 

 transverse sulcus veiy well marked, median carina more distinct on 

 the metazona than cephalad, but not markedly elevated anywhere 

 in its length; lateral lobes distinctly longer than broad. Tegmina 

 slightly less than the pronotum in length, sublanceolate, twice as long 

 as broad in the c? , half again as long as broad in the 9 , apex narrowly 

 rounded, tegmina well separated dorsad. Abdomen with the apex 

 but little elevated and not at all recurved ; fm'cula about a third the 

 length of the supra-anal plate and distinctly longer than the segment 

 from which they spring, simple, parallel; supra-anal plate produced 

 trigonal, considerably inflated mesad, median sulcation and bordering 

 ridges distinct on the proximal half, the sulcation obsolete distad; 



" 'Opeiag, in allusion to its habitat. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



403 



cerci slender, strongly tapering in the proximal half, very slightly 

 tapering in the distal half, apex bliint and very slightly excavated and 

 falling considerably short of the apex of the supra-anal plate; sub- 



Fig. 1.5. — Podisina oreas n. sp. Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park. 

 Lateral view of male type. (X 4.) 



genital plate with the apical margin slightly elevated, the whole plate 

 evenly tapering to this section, which is narrowly subtruncate and 

 with a slight depressed area immediately caudad of the margin. 

 Prosternal spine erect, slightly retrorse, thick and rather blunt. Inter- 

 space between the mesosternal lobes distinctly broader 

 than long in the o' . over half again as broad as long in 

 the 9 ; metasternal lobes sub-attingent in the c? , sep- 

 arated by a subquadrate interspace in the 9 . Median 

 and cephalic limbs no more inflated in the d^ than in 

 the 9 . Caudal limbs moderately robust, femora reach- 

 ing to the apex of the abdomen; caudal tibise with 

 eleven spines on each margin. 



General color bistre in the c?, burnt mnberinthe 9 . 



Fig. 16.— Po- 

 disma oreas 

 n. sp. Dor- 

 sal view of 

 apex of 

 male abdo- 

 men. (X4.) 



Postocular streak rather faint and weak, seal brown in 

 color; antennae carmine, rather dull distad. Tegmina 

 in the cJ' darker ventrad than dorsad, unicolorous in the 9 . Stripes 

 on the pleura distinct. Caudal femora with indications of two dark 

 bars, che^Ton-shaped on the faces, the light color being an ecru drab, 

 genicular arches and proximal section of the lobes on the internal face 

 blackish, ventral face canary yellow, duller in the male than in the 

 female; caudal tibiae ver\- dull olive green in the (J* and ochraceous in 

 the 9 , except the dorsal face which is gamboge yellow in both sexes ; 

 spines black. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Measurements. 



I.ength of body, 20 mm. 23 mm. 



Length of pronotum 4.8 " 5.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 4 " 5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 10.5 " 12 " 



The type specimens are unique. 



These two specimens were taken on the pebbly summit of the foot- 

 hills back of the Mammoth Hot Springs Hotel. The ground in this 

 region was quite bare, but few plants being noticed. 

 Podisma oregonensis (Thomas). 



The following localities are represented, all in Yellowstone Park: 



Mammoth Hot Springs, Aug. 5, 4 d^, 1 9 . Summit of first foothill 

 of Gallatin range. Mammoth Hot Springs, Aug. 5, 4 cT, S ? . Con- 

 tinental Divide near 8,300 feet elevation (alpine meadow), Aug. 7, 

 1 (5*. Apollinaris Spring, Aug. 6, 1 9 . Yellowstone Lake, Aug. 7, 

 8 d", 7 9 . Near Grand Canon, Aug. 10, 10 d', 4 9 . 



The specimens from the higher altitudes, as the Continental Divide 

 and Grand Canon representatives, average smaller than the individuals 

 from lower altitudes. One male from Mammoth Hot Springs is 

 partially covered with geyser deposit and is larger than any repre- 

 sentative of the same sex (d^) seen. In coloration some specimens 

 have the paler markings more brilliant than in others, and some few 

 individuals from Grand Caiion are suffused with smoky brown. 



This species appeared to be widely distributed and ■\\'as found c^uite 

 plentiful in the short grass of all the elevated open lands in the Park. 

 The species was strictly terrestrial, and individuals were invariably 

 active and possessed of consideralile saltatorial power. 



MELANOPLUS St&l. 

 Melanoplus lakinus (Scudder). 



Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17 to 22, 6 6^, 4 9. 

 Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 1 (5*, 1 9. Fort Morgan, 

 Colorado, Aug. 24, 11 c?, 8 9 . Akron, Colorado, Aug. 24, 2 d*. 



Several of the above specimens belong to the richly colored green 

 phase described by Gillette. 



In all the localities in which I collected on the Colorado prairie where 

 the vegetation was high and rank, I found this beautiful species in 

 moderate numbers. The individuals were very active, but could be 

 easily beaten from the weeds in which they had taken refuge. The 

 green form was noticeable for its brilliancy. 



Melanoplus oocidentalis (Thomas). 



Emigrant, Montana, Aug. 4, 1 o^, 2 9. Knob Hill, Colorado 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17 to 22. 7 c?, 11 9 . Austin Bluffs, Colorado 

 Springs, Aug. IS, 1 9 . Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 4 c?, 

 5 9. Garden of the Gods, Manitou, Colorado, Aug. 17, 2 cj*, 8 9. 

 Pike's Peak, Colorado, Aug. 20, 1 c? at Mountain View, 9,700 feet, 1 9 

 at 10.100 feet, 1 9 at .Middle Hudsonian, 10..500 feet. 



The speemiens here recorded from Emigrant, ^lontana, are, as far as 

 known, the most northern definite record except one from Bismarck,. 

 North Dakota. The species has been recorded by Gillette from locali- 

 ties up to an altitude of 8,000 feet, and in view of the Pike's Peak 

 records here given it will be seen to extend to an elevation of at least 

 10,500 feet, and to be truly an alpine species. In size these Pike's 

 Peak individuals do not appear appreciably smaller than specimens 

 from the \aeinity of Colorado Springs, and are considerably larger than 

 others from Durango, Colorado. 



From the material collected this species appears to frequent a 

 variet}' of habitats, from a distinctly arid region at Emigrant to a 

 grassy gully in the Garden of the Gods. On the whole this form 

 frequented the more sterile sections of the regions in which it was 

 coUected. 



Melanoplus flabellifer Scudder. 



Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 18, 2 c?. Garden of 

 the Gods, Manitou, Colorado. Aug. 17, 4 c?. 



These specimens are identical with Scudder's flabellifer in the form 

 of the cerci, but the validity of the species is, in the authors' opinion, 

 questionable. As Gillette has shown,^ a large series of specimens 

 will contain forms referable to true occidentalis, flabellifer and cuneatus, 

 and have a nmnber of intermediates between these types as well. A 

 number of the specimens referred in this paper to occidentalis are not 

 typical of it, but were placed there as it is the older species and has 

 prioritj' over flabellifer in case the latter is synonymized. This action 

 appears to us to be inevitable, but the material at hand is not extensive 

 enough to take such action. No specimens of the cuneatus type are in 

 the series. 



The specimens of this species were taken in the same localities as 

 M. occidentalis. 



Melanoplus bowditohi Scudder. 



Grand .Junction, Mesa Co., Colorado, Aug. 15, 3 c'. Newcastle 

 Garfield Co., Colorado, Aug. 16, 2 c? . 



These specimens are quite peculiar in appearance and not at all 



' Bull. 94, Colo. Agr. Exp. Sla., pp. 53-54. 

 27 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



similar in coloration to individuals from eastern Colorado and Nebraska. 

 The coloration is decidedly brown, sometimes gray brownish, and little 

 yellow or clear gray is apparent. The head and pronotum are sprinkled 

 with fine umber dots and the tegmina have distinct quadrate macula- 

 tions. Tlie length of the body ranges from 17.5 to 19.5 millimeters. 



All of the specimens of this species were found in tlie valley of the 

 Grand river. Those taken at Grand Junction were found on silt 

 near the river, where very little vegetation was to be seen. The 

 insect's coloration was extremely protective and the species relied 

 almost entirely on its wings for locomotory power. 



Melanoplus flavidus Scudder, 



Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17-22, 21 d^, 10 ?. 

 Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 4 9 . Garden of the Gods, 

 Manitou, Colorado, Aug. 17 and 19, 1 c?, 1 9 . 



This series shows considerable variation in size and color, the latter 

 chiefly in varying intensity of the pattern. 



This species was found in the same situations as M. occidentalis, but 

 in much greater numbers. 



Melanoplus sanguineus Bruner. 



Garden of the Gods, Colorado, Aug. 17, 1 d', 1 ? . 



This striking and beautiful species was recently described from 

 Lamar and Las Animas, in the prairie section of the Arkansas valley, 

 Colorado. This record shows it ascends well into the foothills. 



The coloration of the caudal femora and tibise is very striking and 

 serves to readily identify the species. The female specimen in hand has 

 the head, caudal section of the disk of the pronotum and the dorsal 

 face of the caudal femora somewhat suffused with greenish. 



The specimens were taken in the high grass of a meadow at the 

 western entrance to the Garden of the Gods. 



Melanoplus bruneri Scudder. 



Old Faithful Geyser, Upper Geyser Basin, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 

 7, Id'. 



This single specimen was taken in a small grassy field in the dense 

 pine woods back of Old Faithful Inn. 



Kelanoplus intermedius Scudder. 



Sphinx, Park Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 1 d^. Sappington, Gallatin 

 Co., Montana, Aug. 12, 1 d'. Geyser formation. Mammoth Hot 

 Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 1 d*. Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 

 13, 6 d", 3 9 . Top of Ensign Peak, Salt Lake City, Aug. 13, 5 d", 2 9 . 

 Newcastle, Garfield Co., Colorado, Aug. 16, 1 d*. 




1906.] NATtJRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Tlie form of the cerci of the male individuals here placed under this 

 species agree fairly well with Scudder's figiu-e of those parts, and not- 

 withstanding his remarks to the contrary the authors believe inter- 

 mediiis is at the most not more than a form of atlanis, and probably not 

 even worthy of a name, varietal or otherwise. Numbers of specimens 

 have been examined which seem to connect atlanis and intermedius, 

 and all such are here treated imder atlanis; only those closely approxi- 

 mating Scudder's figiu-e being referred provisionally to intermedius. 



Considerable variation in size is noticetl, males ranging from 18 to 24 

 millimeters in the length of body. One male has the caudal tibiae 

 pale reddish, all the others varjnng shades of glaucous. 



One of the typical sage-brush species. In some localities it was 

 quite plentiful. 



Melanoplus atlanis (Riley). 



Livingston, Park Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 3 6^, 4 9 . Electric, Park 

 Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 1 c?. Jefferson Valley, Montana, Aug. 5, 1 9 . 

 Three Forks, Gallatin Co., Montana, Aug. 12, 1 c?. Mammoth Hot 

 Springs, Yellowstone Park, up to 7,050 feet, Aug. 5, 2 c?, 2 9 . Foun- 

 tain, Lower Geyser Basin, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 6,19. Pine woods, 

 Old Faithful, Upper Geyser Basin, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 7, 4 (?, 1 9 . 

 Salt Lake Oty, Utah, Aug. 13, 14 d>, 12 9 . Hillside, 4,700 feet, Salt 

 Lake City, Utah, Aug. 14, 5 d" 1, 9 . Top of Ensign Peak, 4,900 feet, 

 Salt Lake City, Aug. 13,3 c?. Five miles south of Salt Lake City, in 

 alfalfa field, Aug. 13, 2 (5^, 3 9 . Grand Jimction, Mesa Co., Colorado, 

 Aug. 15, 1 d*, 2 9 . Newcastle, Garfield Co., Colorado, Aug. 16, 1 c?. 

 Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17 to 22, 7 c?, 2 9 . 

 Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 3 cJ*, 2 9 . Manitou, Colorado 

 Aug. 23, 9 (?, 1 9 ; same locality at 6,700 feet, Aug. 16, 4 d", 19* 

 Garden of the Gods. Colorado, Aug. 17, 5 c?, 7 9. Dark Canon, 

 Pike's Peak, 8,920 feet, Aug. 16, 2 9 . Roggen, Colorado, Aug. 24, 2 9 . 



This series exliibits a very great amoimt of variation in size and 

 coloration, and in the form of the cerci many of the males placed here 

 approach intermedius, as mentioned in the remarks under that form. 

 The dullest specimens with little contrasted coloration are from the 

 Garden of the Gods, and the palest ones are from the \dcinity of Salt 

 Lake City. However, while the majority of specimens of each series 

 from the two above localities are miiformly dark or Ught, a few speci- 

 mens from each locality are of what might be called the average Xj^ie. 

 Quite a number of specimens have the caudal tibite of various shades of 

 glaucous. 



A common species in both sage-brush and prairie-grass. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Melanoplus bilituratus (Walker). 



Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 13, 1 c?. Top of Ensign Peak, Salt Lake 

 City, Aug. 13, 1 cJ'. 



These specimens are perfectly tj^jical of bilituratus, which is probably 

 only a race of ailanis. This is the first record of this species from Utah, 

 and the first one east of Fort Halleck. Elko Co., Nevada, except one 

 from Weeksville, Missoula Co., Montana. 



These two specimens were both taken on hilly ground covered with 

 sage. 



Melanoplus spretis (Thomas). 



Garden of the Gods, Colorado, Aug. 17, 2 9 . iloimtain Mew, Pike's 

 Peak, Colorado, Aug. 20, 9,705 feet, 1 c? . 



The capture of these specimens is of considerable interest as it shows 

 that this very destructive species is still present, either as a migrant or 

 as a native, in regions formerly devastated by it. The absence of recent 

 records of this species from Colorado shows it has become a scarce 

 species. The material examined has been compared with individuals 

 from Nebraska and North Dakota. 



Two specimens from the Garden of the Cxods were taken in a grassy 

 meadow, while the other specimen was taken in an aspen thicket in 

 sparse grass. 



Melanoplus defeotus Scudder. 



Muir, Bozeman Tunnel, Park-Gallatin Co., Montana, Aug. 12, 2 c?. 

 Mammoth Hot Sjjrings, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 1 o'. Summit of 

 first foothill of Gallatin range, Mammoth Hot Springs, Aug. 5, 2 c? , 3 9 . 

 Top of bare hill opposite Devil's Kitchen, ^lammoth Hot Springs, Aug. 

 5,1c?. 



This species, previously known only from the type locality, Grand 

 Junction, Colorado, and Nebraska, is quite distinct from the atlanis- 

 spretis type, the form of the subgenital plate, which is considerably 

 elongate, being at a glance sufficient to separate it. 



Melanoplus dawsoni (Scudder). 



Muir, Bozeman Tunnel, Gallatin-Park Co., Montana, Aug. 12, 2 c?, 

 8 9 . Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 22, 2 9 . Manitou, 

 Colorado, Aug. 23, 1 (?, 7 9 . Hillside near Manitou, Colorado, 6,700 

 feet, Aug. 16, 5 6", 7 9. 



Material from Fort Collins, Colorado, has been examined in this con- 

 nection. All the material studied belongs to the short-winged type 

 of the species. Taken as a whole the series examined is quite uniform 

 in size, and with such color variation as does exist being chiefly in the 

 lighter or dark shade of the general color. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



I found this species quite plentiful in a grassy field choked w-ith many 

 bushes. In this locality the species, far outniuubered any other 

 Orthopteron. At Manitou I found it on the hillside, where mountainous 

 plants and scrub oaks formed practical!}^ the only vegetation. 

 Melanoplus montanus (Thomas). 



;\Iammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 3 c?, 6 9. 

 Norris Pass, Continental Divide, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 7, 2 9 . 



This rather conspicuous species has previously been recorded only 

 from Montana. The males in the series examined are quite uniform in 

 size and fairly so in coloration. The females varj' considerably in 

 size, one from JIammoth Hot Springs being distinctly smaller than the 

 others, which latter are slightly larger than the two females from Norris 

 Pass. The dark colors are more blackish and the browns more riifes- 

 cent in the Norris Pass individuals than in any others. 



A distinctlj- mountainous species which I found only on the higher 

 hillsides. The insects were powerful laut too awkward to escape 

 capture. 



Melanoplus altitudinum (Scudder). 



Pike's Peak, Colorado, Dark Canon, 8,920 feet, Aug. 16, 16 c?, 9 9 , 

 1 nj-Tuph; upper slope of Dark Caiion, 9.000 feet, Aug. 16, 2 c^, 2 9 ; 

 below Windy Point, 12,000 feet, Aug. 20, 3 6"', 2 9 . 



The Dark Canon specimens are quite uniform in size, but the three 

 Windy Point specimens are smaller than anj^ of the former and the 

 males are smaller than any specimens of the species seen. The smallest 

 Dark Caiion male measures 16.2 millimeters in length, while a Windy 

 Point specimen measures 14.5. There is considerable variation in the 

 intensity of color in the series examined, but the pattern does not 

 vary to any considerable degree. The proximal portions of the 

 antennae are more red than orange in all the Pike's Peak specimens. 

 The ventral sulcus of the caudal femora is dulh yellowish in some 

 specimens and suffused -with sanguineous in others. 



This species was extremeh^ common in grassy Dark Caiion, while 

 several specimens were also taken in the short grass above the tree-line. 

 The insects were active but easilj- captured. 



Melanoplus fasoiatus (Walker). 



Pine woods. Old FaitUul Geyser, Upper Geyser Basin, Yellowstone 

 Park, Aug. 7, 3 d^, 6 9 . Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 

 17, 1 9 . Manitou, Colorado, 6,900 feet, Aug. 23, 3 d", 2 9 . Pike's 

 Peak, Colorado: Mountain View. 9,700 feet, Aug. 20, 1 c? ; Dark Caiion, 

 8,920 feet, Aug. 16, 1 o" ; below Windy Point, 12,000 feet, Aug. 20, 1 9 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



These specimens vary considerably in size, as is usual in this species, 

 particularly in the females. N^ difference is noted between Pennsyl- 

 vania and New Jersey specimens and those recorded above. All the 

 individuals here studied have the tegmina falling short of the tips of 

 the caudal femora. 



The Windy Point record carrias the vertical range of this species a 

 thousand feet higher than previous records. 



This was the only species to be found in the dense pine woods back 

 of Old Faithful Geyser, and it was one of the very few distinctly sylvan 

 species taken. One specimen, however, was captured above the 

 timber-line on Pike's Peak and one on the prairie outside of Colorado 

 Springs. The insects were extremely powerful and vigorous. 



Melanoplus femur-rubrum (DeGeer). 



Three Forks, Gallatin Co., Montana, Aug. 12, 2 d". Willow Creek, 

 Gallatin Co., Montana, Aug. 12, 2 c?. Sappington, Gallatin Co., 

 Montana, Aug. 12, 3 d^, 2 9. Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone 

 Park, Aug. 5, 4 d^, 1 $ . Geyser crust, Old Faithful, Upper Geyser 

 Basin, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 7, 4 d^ , 1 9 . Five miles south Salt 

 Lake City, Utah, in alfalfa field, Aug. 13, 1 d*. Grand Junction, Mesa 

 Co., Colorado, Aug. 15, 1 d^. Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, 

 Aug. 17-22, 39 d*, 21 9. Manitou, Colorado, Aug. 22, 1 d", 5 9 . 

 Garden of the Gods, Colorado, Aug. 17, 1 d*, 2 9. Dark Canon, 

 Pike's Peak, Colorado, 8,920 feet, Aug. 16, 1 d". Roggen, Weld Co., 

 Colorado, Aug. 24, 4 d^. Table Rock, Pawnee Co., Nebraska, Aug. 

 25, 1 d^. Hannibal and Louisiana, Missouri, Aug. 25, 2 d^. St. 

 Louis, Missouri, Aug. 27, 4 d^, 1 9 . 



The Colorado series contains individuals which are typical of M. 

 plumbeus as understood by Scudder, but from this extremely bright 

 type any number of intermediates, forming a complete chain and con- 

 necting the dull form of Jemur-rubrum found in the East, can be selected. 

 From the ICnob Hill series alone the extreme plumbeus type and ty^^ical 

 jemur-rubrum with seven graded intermediates can be selected. The 

 majority of specimens belong to the intermediate forms, the extremes 

 being scarcer, in the studied series, than the annectant forms. 



The authors fully agree with Gillette's remarks -^ on this species and 

 cannot consider plumbeus as other than brightly colored femur-rubrum. 

 The specimens from Roggen, Colorado, Nebraska and Missouri do not 

 approach plumbeus. The specimens from Montana localities are very 



" Bull. 94, Colo. Agr. Exp. Sta., pp. 48-50. 




1906.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



noticeably smaller than the others examined. Xo short-winged in- 

 dividuals have been seen. 



This species was found in many localities, but nowhere more common 

 than in the prairie grass outside of Colorado Springs. The brilliantly 

 colored specimens (.1/. plu?nbeus Dodge) were always found in the 

 damper locations where vegetation was most abimdant. 



Melanoplus monticola Scudder. 



Geyser crust, Old Faithful Geyser, Upper Geyser Basin, Yellowstone 

 Park, Aug. 7. 1 9 . Near Grand Caiion, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 10, 

 2 c? , 3 9 . Yellowstone Lake, Aug. 7, 7 c? , 9 9 . ICnob Hill, Colorado 

 Springs, Colorado, Aug. 22, 27 c?, 17 9 . Pike's Peak, Colorado, Aug. 

 20: Mountain View, 9,700 feet, 1 c?, 1 9 ; iDddle Hudsonian, 10,500 

 feet, 2 c?; along timber-line, 11,578 feet, 3 cJ* ; below Windy Point, 

 12,000 feet, 13 c?, 12 9. 



This large series exhibits a considerable amoimt of variation in 

 color and size, the greater part of which can be attributed to elevation. 

 The specmiens from Pike's Peak are aU smaller, those from over 11,000 

 feet particularly, and the colors are as a ride duller. Specimens from 

 Windy Point are as small as 15 (c?) and 16 ( 9 ) millimeters in the 

 length of the body, while those from Knob Hill are much larger and 

 range between 17.5 and 22 (c?) and 23 and 30 ( 9 ). One male and one 

 female from Yellowstone Lake as well the majority of the Pike's Peak 

 individuals are very dark in color, whUe some of the females from the 

 latter locality are strongly touched with green. The specimens from 

 the lower elevations are C[uite richly colored, and this with their larger 

 size would seem to indicate another species, but no charactei^s of the 

 appendages seem to warrant their separation. The Middle Hudsonian 

 individuals are perfectly intermediate between the Pike's Peak repre- 

 sentatives and the lowland specimens in size and the briLLiancy of the 

 coloration. 



The species ha^? previously been recorded only from Sierra Blanca, 

 Colorado, 12,000 to 13,000 feet, and from Windy Point, Pike's Peak. 



This species was found in exceedingly varied locations. Not only 

 was it abundant in the alpine herbage above the timber-line on Pike's 

 Peak, but it was also plentiful on the prairie outside of Colorado Springs. 

 In the Yellowstone Park the species was foimd in the decidedly boreal 

 portions. 

 Melanoplus canonious Scudder. 



Salt Lake Qty, Utah, Aug. 13, 9 c?, 4 9. Hillside at Salt Lake 

 City, Aug. 14, 2 9 . Top of Ensign Peak, Salt Lake City, Aug. 13, 

 2 9 . Grand Jimction, Colorado, Aug. 15, 4 9 . 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



These specimens agree fully with the description and figures of this 

 species, whicli has been previously recorded only from northern and 

 western Arizona. There is considerable variation in size, 20 to 24 

 millimeters in the length of body of the c? and 24 to 2S.5 in the 9 . 

 The color of the caudal tibia- varies from pale glaucous to very decided 

 blue, pale laterad, while the general color is more besprinkled with 

 fine spots of imiber on the dorsum in some sjiecimens than in others. 



This species was found almost in\'ariably among the sage. The 

 color of the insects blends so exactly with the sage-brush that when 

 at rest they are difficult to find. I noticed that the insects almost 

 always sought refuge in the sage instead of on the ground. On and 

 aliout Ensign Peak the species was plentiful. 

 Melanoplas coccineipes Scudder. 



Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17-22, 114 o' , 77 9. 

 Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 3 cJ* , 5 9 . Manitou, Colorado, 

 Aug. 22, 2 ? . Garden of the Gods, Colorado, Aug. 17, 5 d", 2 9 . 

 Roggen, Colorado, Aug. 24, 7 o" , 4 9 . 



This large series presents a considerable amount of variation in size 

 and color. The smallest d* measures 17.5 millimeters in the length of 

 body, the largest 22 ; the smallest 9 20, the largest 26. The individuals 

 with the pronotum with a dark median bar superficially much resemble 

 M. packardii. The general coloration is c[uite tlark in some individuals 

 and very light in others, the latter type having all the normal darker 

 markings very weak, while some few specimens have the dorsum of 

 the head and pronotinn suffused with purplish red. The Roggen 

 individuals are more grayish than any others examined. Of the large 

 series examined all but two have red caudal tilii:e, the color usually 

 pale coral red. The other two specimens, a pair from Knob Hill, 

 have glaucous tibiie. The authors are much inclined toward the 

 opinion recently expressed by Gillette,-' to the effect that M. coccineipes 

 represents merely a red-legged form of M. angustipennis. 



This was one of the species which made up the vast swarms of 

 Orthoptera everjnvhere to be f(iund in the prairie grasses outside of 

 Colorado Springs. So great was the mnnber of grasshoppers that it 

 was almost impossible to follow any one iiiteresting specimen when 

 seen. All of the specimens of this species were taken by sweeping the 

 grass. 

 Melanoplus packardii Scudder. 



Emigrant, Park Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 1 c?, 1 9. Mammoth Hot 



"^Bull. 94, Colo. Agr. Exp. Sta., pp. 43, 46. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 1 9 . Salt"]Lake City, Utah, Aug. 

 13, 2 c?, 2 § . Top of Ensign Peak, Salt Lake City, Aug. 13, 1 c?. 

 Five miles south of Salt Lake City, in alfaKa field, Aug. 13, 1 c?, 4 9 . 

 Knob HiU, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17-22, 18 c . 25 9. 

 Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 3 9 . Garden of the Gods, 

 Colorado, Aug. 17 and 23, 1 c?, 1 9 . Fort Morgan, Colorado, Aug. 24, 

 12.' 



From the above series it is quite evident that representatives of this 

 species from the general vicinity of Colorado Springs are smaller than 

 specimens from ^lontana, Yellowstone Park, Utah and eastern 

 Colorado. llale.s from ilontana, L'tah and the Yellowstone range 

 between 27 and 30 miUiraeters in length of bod}^, while I\jiob Hill 

 males measure from 22.5 to 26. The single female from Fort ilorgan, 

 however, is as large as the average Utah female. Specimens examined 

 from several Nebra.ska localities are about the same size as the Knob 

 Hill individuals and smaller than the Fort ^lorgan representative. 



In coloration the ilontana, Utah and Yellowstone individuals are 

 much more strikingly colored than those from Knob HUl, the colors 

 being more contrasted and richer. In a series of six specimens from 

 Boulder and Fort Collins, examined in this connection, several are 

 brighth- colored ; one male, the only Boulder specimen, being as striking 

 as Utah individuals. 



In the series listed above seven specimens have whoUy glaucous 

 caudal tibiae, whUe the remainder vary from carmine to pale pinkish, 

 including some solferino and very pale purplish tibite, while one (Salt 

 Lake City) has partially glaucous, partially solferino and purple tibiae, 

 the glaucous pale and limited to the proximal portion of the lateral 

 faces. 



The specimens of this species taken at Salt Lake City were almost 

 all from the luxiu-iant weeds growing along ditches and drains. Those 

 from Colorado Springs were captiued in the more heavily weed over- 

 grown spots about damp depressions in the prairie. The insects were 

 active, but often climg tenaciously to the weeds in which they hid, and 

 it was consequently easy to capture a? many as desired. 

 Melanoplus conspersus Scudder. 



Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. IS, 2 (?, 1 9 . Ivnob Hill, Colorado 

 Springs, Aug. 17-22, 39 d^, 18 9 . Prairie land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 

 18, 2 9. Garden of the Gods, Colorado, Aug. 17-19, 13 d", 5 9 . 

 Akron, Washington Co., Colorado. Aug. 24, 1 9 . 



This species in the highly colored individuals is quite handsome and 

 appears rather different from the duller specimens, which differ how- 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



ever, only in the replacing of the yellow lighter colors with shades of 

 light brown. In some individuals the caudal tibia? are much more 

 valgate than in others, while the inflation of the ventro-lateral carina 

 and the adjacent parts of the caudal femora is quite marked in the 

 male. A rather striking character of the coloration of this species is 

 the continuation of the internal black A'ertical genicular bar of the 

 caudal femora on the ventral surface, but not on the external face. A 

 blackish patellar spot is present on the caudal tibiae of some specimens 

 and not of others. 



The specimens here studied haA"e been compared with paratypic 

 material. 



This species was one of those which swarmed in the prairie grass. 

 In certain localities where the ground was somewhat damp it occurred 

 in countless numbers. 



Melanoplus alpinus Scudder. 



Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park. 6,500 feet, Aug. 5, 1 c^. 



This specimen has been compared with material from the Big Horn 

 Mountains, Wyoming, and foimd to agree in all important characters. 



The specimen was taken on the summit of the first hill back of the 

 IMammoth Hot Springs Hotel. The ground in that locality was bare, 

 being but sparsely overgrown with short grasses. At the time, the 

 specimen was not noticed to be a desirable insect, and a search for 

 others was consequently not made. 



Melanoplus infantilis Scudder. 



Livingston, Park Co., ^lontana, Aug. 4, 1 9 . Electric, Park Co., 

 Colorado, Aug. 4, 1 9 . Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, 

 Aug. 5: at 6,215 feet, 3 c?, 1 ? ; at 6,500 feet, 2 c?, 1 9 . Knob Hill 

 Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 22, 1 9 . Cripple Creek, Teller Co., 

 Colorado, Aug. 19, 1 d". 



The Cripple Creek specimen of this diminutive species is smaller 

 than the Yellowstone males, while the Livingston specimen is more 

 grayish than any of the others. 



This species was found chiefly in the more hilly regions where vegeta- 

 tion was not luxuriant and it was nowhere abundant. 



Melanoplus minor (Scudder). 



Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 17, 1 c?. Manitou, 

 Colorado, Aug. 23: at 6,300 feet, 1 c , at 6,700 feet, 8 d", 6 9 . One 

 female from Manitou has the caudal tibiae dull purplish red, all 

 other specimens having these parts various shades of glaucous. 



With one exception all the specimens of this species were taken~on 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



the steep hillside near the cog-wheel railway station. Orthoptera 

 were not veiy abundant, but sufficiently plentiful to make collecting 

 among the mountain-loving plants interesting. 



Kelanoplus difFereutialis (Thomas). 



Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. IS, 1 9. Roggen, 

 Weld Co., Colorado, Aug. 2-1, 1 c?. Fort Morgan, Morgan Co., Colorado, 

 Aug. 24, 1 9 . St. Louis, Missomi, Aug. 27, 2 c5^ . 



Very few specimens of this species were seen in Colorado. At St, 

 I>ouis, however, the weeds in everj- vacant field were filled with them. 



Melanoplus bivittatus (Say). 



Gray Qiff, Sweet Grass Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 1 c?. Livingston, 

 Park Co., Montana, Aug. 4, 1 c?. Muir, Bozeman Tunnel, Gallatin- 

 Park Co., i\Iontana, Aug. 12, 1 (5" . Sappington, Gallatin Co., Montana, 

 Aug. 12, 1 c?. Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. .5, 

 1 6", 1 9 . Sunmiit foothill of Gallatin range, 7,000 feet. Mammoth 

 Hot Springs, Aug. 5, 1 9 . Alfalfa field, five miles south of Salt Lake 

 City, Utah, Aug. 1.3, 4 d" , 3 9 . Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, 

 Aug. 18, 1 c?. Garden of the Gods, Colorado, Aug. 19 and 23, 1 c?, 1 

 9 . Fort Morgan, Morgan Co., Colorado, Aug. 24, 4 c? , 2 9 . Roggen, 

 Weld Co., Colorado, Aug. 24, 1 9 . 



This species was more mdely distributed than any other taken. 

 Although nowhere found in swarms, it was almost invariably plentiful 

 about the grasses and weeds growing in somewhat damp locations. 



DACTYLOTTJM Charpentier. 

 Dactylotum piotum (Thomas). 



Garden of the Gods, Colorado, Aug. 17, 1 (5^, 5 9 , 4 nymphs. Aug. 

 19, 4(5^,1 9, 3 nymphs. 



This species was found in a slightly moist grassy meadow. Con- 

 siderable time was occupied in searching for specimens and all adults 

 and nymphs met with were taken. 



TETTIG-ONIDiE. 

 SCTJDDERIA St41. 

 Sondderia luroata Brunner. 

 Manitou, Colorado, 6,900 feet, Aug. 23, 2 c?, 3 9 . 

 Taken in the oak thickets on the hillside. The species was quite 

 plentiful, but took to flight verj^ readily. 



ORCHELIMUM ServiUe. 

 Orchelimum vulgare Harris. 



St. Louis, Missouri, Aug. 27, S 6^. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Taken in a vacant lot overgrown with weeds. The species was 

 abundant everj-where in this locahty. 

 Orohelimum longipenne Scudder. 



Hannibal. Missouri. Aug. 25, 1 c?. 



This specimen agrees very well with Redtenbacher's description 

 and measiu-ements of his inerme, which he proposed to replace longi- 

 penne. Scudder's original description is brief and unsatisfactory. 



The brownish marking on the doramn of the pronotum is rather 

 pale and nearly uniform in color, the lateral bars being extremely 

 weak. 



This single specimen was taken from high weeds gro-s\-iug on the 

 banks of the Mississippi river. 



XIPHIDION Serville. 

 Xiphidion fasoiatum (DeGeer). 



Alvi-on, Washington Co., Colorado, Aug. 21, 1 9 . Roggen, Weld 

 Co., Colorado, Aug. 24, 1 9 . 



Xiphidion saltans Scudder. 



Knob Hill, Colorado Springs. Colorado, Aug. 17-22, 4 c?, 3 9 . Gar- 

 den of the Gods, Colorado, Aug. 19, 1 9 . Roggen, Weld Co., Colorado, 

 Aug. 24, 1 d". 



The specimen from Roggen is very much paler than the others, the 

 normal green on the sides of the head, pronotum and pleiura being 

 replaced with bluish white. 



These insects were all taken among the grasses growing in moist 

 locations. 



Xiphidion strictnm Scudder. 



St. Louis, ilissouri. Aug. 27, 2 d^, 2 9 . 



These specimens have been compared with specimens of this species 

 from Nebraska determined by Bruner. 

 The specimens were taken from a weedy field. 



ANABRUS Haldeman. 

 Anabrus simplex Haldeman. 



^lanunoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 5 cJ', 4 9 . Knob 

 Hill, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 22, 2 9 . 



These specimens have been examined by Mr. Caudell and are con- 

 sidered true siinplex by him. 



This species was extremely common in the sage-brush about the 

 Mammoth Hot Springs. The males sit on the highest twigs and keep 

 up a continuous droning z-r-r-r-r — somewhat resembling the sounds 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



produced by Orchelimwn vulgare. When alarmed the insects fairly 

 tumble from their perch and hurriedly seek their holes at the plant's 

 roots. So quickly can these apparently clumsy insects reach their 

 holes that it is only possible to surprise them still in the bush by ap- 

 proaching with the greatest caution. The insects are exceedingly 

 poor at jumping and are completely helpless when removed from their 

 home bush. 



Anabrus coloradus Thomas. 



Manitou, Colorado, Aug. 23, 4 c?, 2 9. Hillside at 6,700 feet, 

 Manitou, Aug. 16, 1 ?. Halfway House, Pike's Peak, Aug., 2 c?. 

 Mountain View, Pike's Peak, 9,700 feet, Aug. 20, 1 c?. 



These specimens have also been examined and determined by Mr. 

 Caudell. 



These insects were all taken from low bushes growing in or near the 

 woods on the slopes of Pike's Peak. Their stridulations were quite 

 long. 



STEIROXYS Herman. 

 Steiroxys trilineata (Thomas). 



Muir, Bozeman Tunnel, Gallatin-Park Co., Montana, Aug. 12, 1 9 . 

 Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5,3 9 . Siunmit of 

 foothill of Gallatin range, Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, 

 7,000 feet, Aug. 5, 2 9 . Near Grand Canon, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 

 10, 2 9 . Yellowstone Lake, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 7, 2 ? . 



Most of these specimens would by the rather uniform dorsal face of 

 their abdomen be referred to pallidipalpus, but the authors do not 

 consider the blackish V-shaped macidations of the abdomen constant 

 enough to use for the separation of the two ' ' forms. ' ' 



This species was somewhat plentiful under sage-brush. They 

 inhabitetl holes at the roots of these bushes, in which they sought 

 refuge upon the least sign of danger. They hopped along awkwardly, 

 but disappeared in their holes with surprising speed. 



EREMOPEDES Scudder. 

 Eremopedes balli Caudell. 



Austin Bluffs, Colorado Springs, Colorado, Aug. 18, 1 c?. Prairie 

 land, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18, 2 9 . 



This species was previously known only from Fort Collins, Colorado, 

 and Williams and Flagstaff, Arizona. This species was found on the 

 ground among grasses. It is strictly terrestrial. 




41S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



QRYLLIDiE. 

 NEMOBIUS Sen-Ule. 

 Nemobius fasciatus (DeGeer). 



ilammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 2 c?, 2 9 . 

 Geyser crust. Old Faithful, Upper Geyser Basin, Yellowstone Park, 

 Aug. 7, 1 c? , 1 9 . Five miles south of Salt Lake City, Utah, in 

 alfalfa field, Aug. 13, 1 d". St. Louis, Missouri, Aug. 27, i 9 . 



All specimens in this series are brachypterous. 



GRYLLTTS Linnseus. 

 Gryllns pennsylvanious Burmeister. 



On geyser formation at the upper end of ]Mammoth Hot Springs, 

 Yellowstone Park, Aug. 5, 2 9 . Brush, Morgan Co., Colorado, Aug. 

 24, 1 9 . St. Louis, Missoiu-i, Aug. 27, 1 9 . 



The specimens are brach}'pterous. 



The specunens taken at the Hot Springs were lying dead on the 

 geyser formation, evidently killed by the fumes issuing from a nearby 

 vent hole. 



(ECANTHTTS Ser^-iUe. 

 (Ecanthns quadripanctatas BeutenmuUer. 



Knob Hill, Colorado Springs, Aug. 18-22, 5 c?. Prairie land, 

 Colorado Springs, Aug. IS, 1 c?. Garden of the Gods, Colorado, Aug. 

 17, 1 c?. 



The antennal maculations, particularly on the proximal joint, vary 

 considerablj^ in shape, in one specimen approaching fasciatus and in 

 others approaching pini. 



A conmaon species on the higher weeds and bushes gro\\-ing on the 

 prairie. Their low but continuous stridulating would be heard often 

 manv vards away. 




1906.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 419 



ON SOME REPTILIAN FREAKS FROM INDIANA. 



BY W. S. BLATCHLEY. 



Cases of deformity or malformation are seemingly much less common 

 among wild forms of life than among mankind or his domestic animals. 

 One often sees or hears of two-headed calves, five-legged pigs^and four- 

 legged chickens, but "freaks" among wild mammals, birds and reptiles 

 coriie to notice but seldom. In the literatm-e on herpetology at my 

 command I can find only the following records of malformation among 

 reptiles and batrachians in the United States. 



Dr. Samuel L. Mitchill, in the early part of the nineteenth century, 

 published an article entitled "Facts and considerations showing that 

 the Two-Headed Snakes of North America and other parts of the 

 World are not individuals of a distinct race, but universally Monsters,"' 

 in which he recorded the finding in Genesee county, New York, of 120 

 of the young of a female black snake, Bascanion constrictor L., among 

 which were "three monsters, one with two distinct heads; one with a 

 double head and only three eyes; and one with a double skull, furnished 

 with three eyes and a single lower jaw; this last had two bodies." 

 These three specimens he figured on an accompanying plate. 



Dr. ilitchill noted that records of two-headed snakes had been made 

 up to that date from the "West Indian and Polynesian islands; in 

 Great Britain and in Italy, ' ' and that those from the foreign countries 

 had been supposed to "constitute a race of their own and propagate 

 their kind in regular succession." His paper, based on the finding in 

 New York of three individuals among one litter, was written to con- 

 trovert this foolish supposition. He added that ' ' serpents are destitute 

 of limbs, and are consequently incapable of monstrosity in feet, legs, 

 hands and arms, either by defect, redundancy or malformation; when 

 it happens, therefore, monstrosity must be in the head or tail, and the 

 head is most frequently the seat of it. ' ' 



Prof. Jeffries Wyman recorded the occurrence in IMassachusetts of a 

 specimen of water snake, Tropidonotus sipedon (L.), with two heads 

 and two tails .^ 



' American Journ. Science and Arts, X, 1S26, 48. 

 ' Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., IX, 183. 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



In the American Naturalist, Vol. XII, 1S7S, p. -170, ^Ir. H. C. Yarrow- 

 stated that there was ' ' but one two-headed snake in the enormously 

 large collection of reptiles in the Smithsonian Institution. ' ' This was 

 a specimen of Ophibolus gctidus (L.), the common chain or king snake, 

 from Port Tobacco, Marylantl. 



In the same volume, page 694, Dr. J. S. Kingsley mentioned a two- 

 headed snake, species not given, as being in the collection of Williams 

 College, Massachusetts. 



In his ' ' Report on the Reptiles and Batrachians of Ohio,' '^ Dr. W. H. 

 Smith stated that the Museum of ^Michigan University contains a 

 double-headed milk snake, Ophibolus doliatus triangulus (Boie). He 

 added: "Cases of monstrosities among serpents have been observed 

 by various parties from the time of Aristotle and Redi to the present, 

 and they, as well as the occurrence of monsters in general, may be due 

 to shock. ' ' 



Concerning two-headed turtles I can find but one reference, viz.. Dr. 

 Mitchill, /oc. cit., says: "I have heard of a two-headed tortoise {Test udo) 

 that lived to acquire a considerable size, by having taken food at both 

 mouths." 



But two notes regarding malformation among batrachians are at 

 hand. One of these is by Dr. Kingsley, loc. cit., in which he records 

 a specimen of a five-legged frog, Rana palustris, from Rochester, New 

 York. The other, by Smith, loc. cit., refers to a mention by Ryder ^ 

 of another five-legged frog of the same species. 



During the past fifteen years examples of four two-headed snakes, 

 one two-iheaded t-iu'tle, one five-legged frog and one two-tailed sala- 

 mander from Indiana have come to my notice. Wliile I have seen but 

 two of the individuals, the records of the others can be relied upon. 



Two-headed Snakes, a. Of the snakes, one at hand as I write is a 

 specimen of the spreading viper, Heterodon platyrhinus Latr., six and a 

 half inches in length, taken near Manilla, Rush county, by S. C. Peck 

 in August, 1904, and by him presented to the State iluseum. It has 

 two perfect heads, both possessing the scale formula of the species. 

 Each head stands out at nearly right angles to the median line of the 

 front extremity of the body, the center or keel of the two rostral plates 

 being 22 mm. apart. The two heads unite just back of the hindmost 

 of the inner lower labials, there being three rows of small scales between 

 the inner upper labials. Mewed from above, the right head appears 



=> Geol. Surv. of Ohio, IV, 1SS2, 690. 



' Science News, December 15, 1878, p. 69 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



very slightly longer than the left, but when compressed together there 

 is no difference, each one being 13 nun. in length. The two oesophagi 

 unite in a common gullet just back of the point of imion. In all other 

 respects the specimen is a tj^jical }' oung form of H. platyrhinus. 



b. A small two-headed garter snake was taken on a farm southwest 

 of Russell^dlle, Putnam county, and was kept in alcohol for several 

 years. It was reported to me by several parties who had seen it, but 

 was thrown out on accoimt of decay, due to loss of alcohol, several 

 weeks before I \Tsited the place. The heads were said to unite about 

 two inches back of the rostral plate, each having a small portion of the 

 body between it and the point of union. 



c. In June, 1893, a friend reported to me that his son had killed a 

 two-headed snake in a woods pasture near Terre Haute. In company 

 with the boy I visited the spot the next day, but found that the buz- 

 zards had been ahead of me and that only a small portion of the body 

 was left. It was a house or milk snake. Ophibolus doliatus triangulus 

 (Boie), and, judging from the fragments and the account of the boy, 

 had been about two and a half feet in length. He said that the heads 

 forked five or six inches back from the front extremity of the body. 



d. In the Indianapolis News of July 19, 1893, John Collett, ex-State 

 Geologist of Indiana, mentions a "double-headed garter snake as 

 ha\'ing been taken west of the Wabash river in VermiUion county a 

 few years previously." 



Two-headed Turtle. — On May 1, 1892, John Tiley, a coal operator, 

 foimd, near Waterman, in the southwest corner of Fountain county, 

 Indiana, a two-headed turtle. It was presented to Dr. George T. 

 De Verter, who kept it for more than a year, when by accident it was 

 drowned. It was presented in alcohol to Prof. John Collett, of Indiana- 

 polis, and, according to the Indianapolis News of July 19, 1893, had 

 "nothing to distinguish it from the ordinary little river turtle that 

 sits with a row of fellows on a log and plunks into the water when you 

 creep up -ndth designs upon its freedom. Its back appears a little 

 broader than usual to give it neck room. The heads are not joined and 

 do not interfere with each other's independence. Each has its little 

 sack to retreat into in time of danger. Each has two fully 'developed 

 eyes, a complete and efiicaQious mouth and a full tlu-oat which is 

 beautifiilly striped in black and yellow lines. Each has a little stripe 

 of red retreating from each eye, and the heads are twins in size. Either 

 head would have been good enough to serve a turtle of ordinary ambi- 

 tion." 



The News published a crude drawing of the turtle, and from it and the 

 28 




422 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



above description, I judge that the animal was very probably a speci- 

 men of the lady turtle, Chrijsemys marginata (Agassiz). Dr. De Verter 

 informed the wTiter that when kept in an aquarium and fed, each head 

 acted wholly independently of the other, the two being thrust forth 

 for difTerent articles of food — meat, mosquito larvae, tadpoles, etc. — at 

 the same time or at intervals, as occasion and opportunity demanded. 

 What finally became of the specimen on the death of Prof. Collett is 

 not known. 



Five-legged Frog. — In the spring of 1S92, while teaching zoology at 

 Terre Haute, I heard several times of a five-legged frog at a greenhouse 

 in that city. I finally visited the place, but the specimen could not be 

 located. The proprietor informed me that he had seen it on a number 

 of occasions, and had caught it once and then let it go. According to 

 his description, it was probably a specimen of the leopard frog, Rarm 

 virescens Kalm, with a fifth leg of the same size as each of the two 

 front ones, which w^as joined to the left side about an inch back of and 

 a little higher than the normal front leg. The specimen was not seen 

 after my visit and prol^ably fell a victim to some prowling cat. 



Two-tailed Salamander. — On June 21, 1906, I took from an ancient 

 shell mound which was being excavated near Shoals, Martin county, 

 a small specimen of the ashy salamander, Plethodon cinereus (Green), 

 which possesses a forked tail. The animal itself was only 38 mm. in 

 length, the tail comprising 12 mm., or nearly one-third. At a point 

 near the middle the tail forked, the two prongs being separated in life 

 by an angle of about 30 degrees. The left or longer fork was 7 mm. in 

 length, while the right or shorter one was but 5 mm. long. Instead of 

 being cylindrical as in typical specimens, each portion was flattened, 

 with rather sharp edges above and below. 



It is very probable that cases of malformation among reptiles and 

 batrachians are much more common than is generally supposed. It 

 is safe to say that not more than ten per cent, of the normal individuals 

 which are born or hatched ever come within the range of man's vision. 

 The great majority of the malformed ones are, like those of the 

 domestic animals, either still-born or short-lived. The number of 

 specimens of "freaks" which come to the notice of man is, therefore, 

 doubtless a very small per cent, of those. which actually occur. 



To the factor of natural variation, rather than that of "shock," is 

 probably due the malformations which do occur. If but three speci- 

 mens out of 120 of one brood of snakes were malformed on account of 

 a shock to the pregnant mother, why did not that shock affect the 

 others? 




1906.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



423 



DESCRIPTIONS OF TWO NEW SPECIES OF CENTEOPOMUS. 



BY HEXRY -W. FOWLER. 



Centropomus gabbi sp. nov. Fig. 1 



Head 2|; depth 3|; D. VIII, I, 10, i; A. Ill, 6, i; P. ii,13; V. 1,5; 

 scales 66 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 17 more out from latter to 

 end of median rays; 12 scales in a vertical series between origin of 

 spinous dorsal and lateral line; 13 scales in a vertical series between 

 origin of rayed dorsal and lateral line; 15 scales in a vertical series 

 between origin of spinous anal and lateral line; 7 scales in a vertical 

 series between lateral line and middle of upper surface of caudal 

 peduncle; width of head 3 in its length; depth of head at occiput If; 

 mandible 1|; fourth dorsal spine 2; second dorsal ray 2^; second 



Fig. 1. — Centropomus gabbi Fowler. 



anal spine H; first anal ray 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 3J; 

 upper caudal lobe about 1\; pectoral If; ventral If; snout 3f in head, 

 measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 4|; maxillary 2i; interorbital 

 space 64. 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Body compressed, elongated, back a little elevated, or more convex 

 than lower profile, and greatest depth falling at origin of spinous dorsal. 

 Edges of body roimded. Chest flattened. Least depth of caudal 

 peduncle If in its length. 



Head compressed, sides flattened so that its width is equally wide 

 above and below. Profile similarly inclined, and nearly straight. 

 Muzzle prominent, robust. Snout as long as broad and with convex 

 surface. Eye rather large, circular, touching upper profile and falling 

 about first | in length of head. Mouth moderately large, inclined a 

 little, and with gape straight. jMandible broad, depressed on lower 

 surface, rami elevated posteriorly inside mouth, symphysis with slightly 

 elevated dentigerous process and protruding well in front of snout. 

 Lips rather thin and fleshy. Jlaxillary reaching middle of orbit, its 

 upper edge slipping below preorbital to its extremity, and distal ex- 

 pansion equals diameter of pupil. Bands of vUliform teeth in jaws, 

 on vomer and palatines. Tongue smooth, free and rounded in front. 

 Nostrils adjoining, close to front rim of eye, and posterior a little 

 larger. Along lower edge of preorbital 10 backwardly directed den- 

 ticles. Along I'idge of preopercle at angle 2 denticles. Margin of 

 preoperele finely serrated, with about 6 especially enlarged serrae at 

 angle. Edge of suprascapida with graduated denticles to last or 

 posterior, which is largest. Interorbital space flat with 2 equidistant 

 parallel frontal ridges, convergent anteriorly at snout. Parietal ridge, 

 beginning as supraocular, also prominent and becoming somewhat 

 convergent towards occiput. A ridge on preorbital. Opercle ending 

 in a rather broad cutaneous flap posteriorly above. 



Gill-opening extending forward opposite front rim of orbit. Gill- 

 rakers II, 5 + 10, IV, lanceolate, slender, longest much longer than 

 filaments, or | of orbit. Gill-filaments about equal pupil. Pseudo- 

 branchiae smaller than filaments. Isthmus narrow and with slightly 

 convex surface. 



Scales finely ctenoid, in even longitudinal series parallel with lateral 

 line, and those on middle of side largest. Scales small on predorsal 

 region, also those on or at bases of fias. About 12 series of scales on 

 cheek. Head naked, except cheek, postocular region, opercle, sub- 

 opercle, parietal region and occiput, though scales on opercle much 

 largest. A narrow basal scaly sheath extending till behind seventh 

 dorsal spine. Base of rayed dorsal covered with small scales, also of 

 anal and caudal. AxU of pectoral with a pit, a cutaneous membrane 

 covering it above. Ventral with a pointed scaly flap in axil about 

 I length of spine. Lateral line conspicuous, of simple large tubes, 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



and sloping down in a curve till on middle of side of caudal peduncle, 

 and persisting on caudal to tips of median rays. 



Spinous dorsal inserted a little nearer tip of mandible than base of 

 last dorsal ray, graduated down from fourth spine which is longest, 

 and edge of fin not notched. Rayed dorsal inserted nearly an eye- 

 diameter nearer base of caudal than eye, and graduated down from 

 second ray which is longest, though first and third but slightly shorter. 

 Spine of rayed dorsal less than half height of fin. Spinous anal in- 

 serted nearer base of caudal than origin of ventral, second spine longest 

 enlarged, and falling about half an eye-diameter short of base of caudal. 

 Third anal spine long, slender, and but a trifle shorter than second. 

 Rayed anal graduated down from first ray which is longest, and about 

 equal to third anal spine. Caudal deepl}' emarginated, forked, lobes 

 pointed, apparently equal, and median rays about half length of upper 

 lobe. Pectoral broad, upper rays longest, and reaching about | to 

 spinous anal. Ventral inserted just behind base of pectoral, reaching 

 f of space to spinous anal, and spine about f length of fin. Vent a 

 trifle before tips of ventrals. 



Color in alcohol dull brassy-brown, with obscure olivaceous tints 

 above, and lower surface scarcely paler. Body also with shining or 

 silvery reflections in some lights. Lateral line brownish, not much 

 darker than body-color. Fins all more or less dilute brownish. 

 Spinous dorsal with greater median portion of each membrane largely 

 dusky-brown, and same of raj^ed dorsal and caudal, though basal 

 portions of membranes of these fins pale. Membrane between second 

 and third anal spines dusky. Outer front proximal regions of ventrals 

 tinted with brownish dustings. Iris dull brownish. 



Length 10^ inches. 



Type, No. 13,469, A. N. S. P. Eastern San Domingo. Prof. 

 William M. Gabb. 



Known to me from the single example described above. It is close to 

 the figiu-e of C. mexicanus by Vaillant and Bocourt, which species 

 according to Dr. Regan is undoubtedly identical with C. parallelus. C. 

 gabbi differs from the aforementioned figure in the third dorsal spine 

 being shorter than the fourth, the shorter spine of the rayed anal, the 

 comparatively shorter second anal spine, which is but a trifle longer 

 than the third, and several other characters, such as the presence of 

 more preorbital serrs, etc. 



(Named for Prof. William M. Gabb, who collected fishes in San 

 Domingo.) 

 CentropomuB heringi sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 2f ; depth 3|; D. VIII-I, 10, i; A. Ill, 6, i; P. ii, 14; V. I, 5; 




426 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



scales 70 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 16 more on caudal; 10 

 scales between origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line in a vertical 

 series ; 12 scales in a vertical series between origin of rayed dorsal and 

 lateral line; 15 scales in a vertical series from origin of spinous anal to 

 lateral line; width of head 3f in its length; depth of head at occiput 

 lyf; mandible 2; sixth dorsal spine 2|; second anal spine 1^; third 

 anal spine 1^; least depth of caudal peduncle 3i; pectoral If; ventral 

 1|; ventral spine 2f ; snout Si in head, measured from tip of upper 

 jaw; eye 4^; maxillary 2f; interorbital space 7|. 



Body moderately elongate, well compressed, and greatest depth 

 about middle of base of spinous dorsal. Back a little elevated or 



Fig. 2. — Centroponius heringi Fowler. 



profile above more convex than below. Edges of body rounded. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed, and least depth which falls about last 

 third of its length about If in latter. 



Head compressed, sides flattened and appearance attenuated. 

 Upper profile nearly straight from tip of snout to occiput and much 

 more inclined than lower. Snout convex, rounded when viewed from 

 above with a slight depression in front, and longer than wide. Eye 

 a little ellipsoid, touching upper profile, and its center about first | 

 in length of head. Pupil circidar. Mouth nearly horizontal. Man- 

 dible spatulate, projecting well beyond tip of upper jaw, and each 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



ramus but little elevated inside of mouth. Maxillary reaching beyond 

 front of pupil slightly, though not to middle, and distal expansion 

 emarginated posteriorly 2J in horizontal orbital diameter. Margin 

 of preorbital with 6 backwardly directed teeth or serrse. Bands of 

 very fine teeth in jaws and on vomer and palatines, those on latter 

 very narrow. Tongue narrow, elongately triangular, and free in 

 front. Lower lip laterally rather fleshy. Nostrils near together, 

 posterior larger and close in front of eye, and anterior placed about 

 last I in length of snout. Interorbital space rather narrow and flat- 

 tened, frontal and supraocular keels nearly equidistant. Posterior 

 ridge of preopercle well serrated, at angle 2 large denticles and lower 

 edge with coarser serratures than those on vertical margin. Ridge 

 just in front with 2 small serrse at angle. Opercle ending in a long thin 

 flap above. Suprascapula coarsely serrate above. 



Gill-opening extending forward opposite front margin of orbit. 

 Gill-rakers ii, 5 + 11, iii, lanceolate, and longest longer than longest 

 filaments, or about 1^ in horizontal orbital diameter. Isthmus narrow, 

 and with a slight median fmrow. 



Scales small, in series parallel with lateral line, small and crowded 

 on predorsal region, where they niraiber about 25, and on bases of 

 vertical or unpaired fins. Scales also small on breast and about 

 chest. About 7 series of scales on cheek. Opercles, and a patch on 

 each side of head above behind eye, scaly. With these exceptions 

 head more or less cavernous and with prominent ridges. Dorsals and 

 anals with basal scaly sheaths. Axil of ventral with a scaly flap cov- 

 ered with a number of small scales. Lateral line of large simple tubes, 

 prominent, and uniform in color with rest of body. 



Spinous dorsal inserted a trifle behind origin of ventral, third and 

 fourth spines evidently longest? (though missing) and others graduated 

 down. Rayed dorsal inserted nearly midway between posterior rim 

 of orbit and base of caudal, and rays highest anteriorly. Spinous 

 anal inserted nearly midway between origin of ventral and base of 

 caudal or opposite base of fomi-h dorsal ray. Second anal spine very 

 long, nearly straight, longer than third, and reaching beyond base of 

 caudal. Anal rays graduated down from first which is longest. 

 Caudal forked, lobes evidently pointed. Pectoral reaching a little 

 beyond base of last dorsal spine, though not quite opposite origin of 

 second dorsal. Ventral inserted a little behind origin of pectoral, 

 and reaching § of space to anal, though a little short of origin of rayed 

 dorsal. Vent a little before tips of ventrals or about | in post-ventral 

 space. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Color in alcohol pale brown, more or less uniform, lower surface 

 and sides with bright reflections. Back with obsciue underlaid 

 mottlings. Iris dull yellowish. 



Length 5^ inches. 



Type, No. 13,421, A. N. S. P. Surinam or Dutch Guiana. Dr. 

 Charles Hering. 



Known to me only from a single poorly preserved example which 

 is closely related to C argenteus. It differs, however, chiefly in having 

 12 scales in a vertical series between the origin of the rayed dorsal 

 and the lateral line, and in the variegated back. The profile of the 

 head is also less attenuated and the second anal spine reaches further 

 beyond base of caudal. 



(Named for Dr. Charles Hering, who collected fishes many years ago 

 at Surinam or Dutch Guiana.) 



Other species examined are C. pectinatus Poey from Siu-inam, C. con- 

 stantinus Jordan and Evermann from Rio Janeiro and Los Matheos 

 in Brazil, C. argenteus Regan from Surinam, C. cuvieri Bocourt from 

 eastern San Domingo, C. armatus GiU from western Mexico, C. 

 pedimacula Poey from Havana, and C. ensiferus Poey from eastern San 

 Domingo. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 42i) 



OCTOBEK 2. 



Mr. Arthur Erwix Brown, Vice-President, in the Cliair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



The deaths of Joseph F. Sinnott, June 20, of Howard X. Potts, 

 July 24, members, and of the follo\nng correspondents: C. R. Von 

 Osten Sacken, Eugene Renevier, Henry A. Ward, Diomys Stm- and 

 E. F. Recluz, were announced. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the follow- 

 ing titles had been offered for publication since the last meeting : 



"Description of Five New Species of Orthoptera from Tonkin,'! 

 by James A. G. Rehn (May 17). 



"Description of Two New Polychceta from Alaska," by J. Percy 

 Moore (June 20). 



"Note on the Dusky Salamander," by H. W. Fowler (July 7). 



"On Some Fishes of Western Cuba," by N. E. Mclndoo (July 7). 



"On Some Reptilian Freaks from Indiana," by W. S. Blatchley 

 (July 7). 



"A Contribution to the Knowledge of the Orthoptera of ilontana, 

 Yellowstone Park, Utah and Colorado," by James A. G. Rehn and 

 Morgan Hebard (August 31). 



' ' Description of Two New Species of Centropomus, ' ' by Hemy 

 W. Fowler (September 10). 



Botanizing in the Canadian Rockies. — Mr. Stewardson Brown 

 remarked that during the past summer, through the liberahty of ^Irs. 

 Charles Schaffer, June and July were spent in studying the plants of 

 the Canadian Rockies, along the line of the Canadian Pacific RaUwa}-. 



The section explored was from Banff, Alberta, to Glacier, B. C, with 

 side trips into the region surromiding Lake Louise, to the south of 

 Laggan Station, and the Ptarmigan, Bhnd, and part of the Pipestone 

 Vallej-s to the north; Lake O'Harra, Emerald Lake, the Yoho and 

 Little Yoho ^'alleys, in the vicinity of Field, B. C. 



Collections were made consisting of SOS numbers, comprising about 

 one-third as many species and more than 4,000 specimens. 



As these have not yet been critically studied it is impossible to 

 indicate how many may be new to science; it is reasonable to suppose, 

 however, that there are some novelties among them. The species 

 29 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.. 



forming the forest east of the divide appear to differ considerably 

 from those of the west, due doubtless to the greater precipitation of 

 moisture on the latter region. Near the limit'of timber and in open 

 ground, where the effect of such conditions would not be so marked, 

 they appear to be nearly identical. 



October 16. 

 Dr. Benjamin Sharp in the Chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



Weather Predictions. — Mr. Harvey il. Watts remarked that a new 

 epoch is about to dawn in meteorological research, in that the United 

 States Weather Bureau expects within a month to receive daily 

 reports from the entire northern (circum-Polar) hemisphere — Europe, 

 Siberia, Alaska, and so on around from west to east — allowing the 

 meteorologists for the first time to have synoptic charts made cover- 

 ing this immense area of the inhabited globe. 



In explaining the significance of this, Mr. Watts went into a careful 

 survey of the great basic causes of weather anrl climate variations. 

 He called attention to the universal drift of the general circulation 

 from west to east about the Pole in the regions north of the Tropics, in 

 which general circulation are carried by the travelling cyclones and 

 anti-cyclones (centers of low and high Ijarometric pressures), and he 

 indicated how the paths of these travelling eddie.3 were determined by 

 the pressures and location of the sub-Tropical high pressure belts, 

 ■whicli form in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans huge permanent anti- 

 cyclones, upon whose seasonal shifting and variations in pressm-e 

 depend the general variations in weather anil climate. 



>The speaker called attention to the fact tliat the variation in place 

 and pressure of these anti-cyclones (the sub-Tropical high pressure 

 belts), 'it was now held generally by meteorologists, were due to varia- 

 tions in the radiation from the sim. It is known that the sun is a 

 variable star, whose radiation varies from time to time as much as 

 ten per cent. 



These solar variations affect the pressure in the sub-Tropical region, 

 and the variations in the pressures in the sub-Tropical region in tm-n 

 affect atmospheric pressures the earth over, determining the path of 

 storms and clear weather phenomena, and also general climatic effects, 

 such as excessive rains, tlroughts, hot and cold summers and their 

 contraries. 



The following were ordered printed : 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



431 



FUHTHEE KNOWLEDGE OF SOME HETEEOGNATHOtJS FISHES. PART II. 

 ^Y HEXRY W. FOWLER. 



Astyanax stilbe (Cope). Fig. 34. 



Tctragonopterus stilbe Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilcs. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70 

 (.\ugust 19, 1870), p. 559. T\-pe, No. 8,085, A. N. S. P. Para. 

 De Schulte Buckow. Cope, I.e., p. 566 (evidently type). 



-v-ii;? 



Fig. 34. — Astyanax stilbe (Cope). 



Width of head 2 in its length; interorbital space 2| in head measured 

 from tip of upper jaw. Body compressed. Predorsal region with a 

 median keel, and postdorsal region rounded. Preventral region 

 rounded and postventral region trenchant. Caudal pedimcle com- 

 pressed. Head compressed. Snout moderately broad and sm-face 

 convex. Rami of mandible not elevated inside mouth. Teeth in 

 jaws mostly quindentate, 4 on each side in an outer series above, and 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



mandibulars large and powerful in front. A small basal maxillary tooth 

 inside. Tongue flattened, rounded and a little free. InterorlDital 

 space convex. Gill-opening extending forward not quite opposite end 

 of maxillary. Rakers 9 + 12?, lanceolate, and shorter than filaments 

 which are y of eye. Each scale with a few stride. Tubes of lateral line 

 simple. Vent close in front of anal. Color in alcohol pale brown, 

 back a little darker than sides and lower surface with more or less 

 silvery reflections. A silvered streak from hmneral region, including 

 rather vertical dusky-brown hvimeral blotch, to caudal, where it 

 becomes dark brownish and continues out on median rays. Fins all 

 dull or pale uniform brownish. Iris brassy-brown. Length 2\l 

 inches. 



Astyauax moorii (Boulenger). 



Telragonopterus moorei Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XXXIII, 

 1S94 (January 5), p. 107. Xear Chapada, in Matto Grosso, from the 

 headwaters of the Paraguaj'. H. H. Smith. 



Head 3| ; depth 3 ; D. iii, 9 ; A. iv, 28, i ; scales 37 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal, and 3 more on latter; 9 scales obliquely from origin'of 

 dorsal to lateral line; 7 scales from origin of anal to lateral hne; pectoral 

 1^ in head; ventral If; snout 3f in head measirred from tip of upper 

 jaw; eye 3J; maxillary 2; interorbital space 3. Body elongate ovoid. 

 An obtuse median predorsal keel, also one on postdorsal and post- 

 ventral regions, preventral region rounded. Head rather short, deep, 

 compressed, muzzle blunt. JMouth a little inclined. Maxillary reaches 

 middle of eye and its expansion f of same. Maxillary with several 

 basal teeth. Tongue fleshy, little free. Interorbital space convex. 

 Opercle deep, and second infraorbital with rather indistinct strise. 

 Gill-rakers 10 -1- 12, shorter than filaments, which are f of eye. Each 

 scale with a few striae. Tubes of lateral line simple. Color in alcohol 

 brown, more or less with dull silvered reflections. Lower surface paler 

 or duller brownish than back. A blackish humeral blotch larger than 

 orbit. Side with a broad grayish diffuse streak from gill-opening 

 above towards base of caudal. In latter region this grayish shades 

 into dusky or blackish and extends out on median caudal rays. Fins 

 otherwise all pale brownish, dorsal and caudal a little darker. Jaws 

 a Uttle brownish in front. Iris light brown with a dark brown ring. 

 Length 4^ inches. 



Astyauax bimaoulatus (Linnaeus). 



Tetragonopterus caudimaculatus Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Pliila., 

 XXXIII, 1894 (January 5), p. 107. Headwaters of the Tocantius. H. 

 H. Smith. 



Head 3^; depth 2f ; D. iii, 9; A. iv, 31, i; scales 40 in lateral line to 




1906.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



base of caudal, and 3 more on latter; 9 scales in an oblique series back 

 from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 7 scales from base of ventral to 

 lateral line; 16 scales before dorsal; pectoral If in head; ventral If; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 21-; snout 3f in head, measured from 

 tip of upper jaw; eye 3J; interorbital space 2f. No maxillarj- teeth. 

 Gill-rakers 10 + 14 on first arch, slender, pointed and much shorter 

 than filaments. Origin of dorsal nearer tip of upper jaw than base of 

 caudal. Color in alcohol brownish, back darker than side and lower 

 surface. Black humeral blotch conspicuous. Blackish dash at base 

 of caudal and on side of caudal pedimcle also pronoimced. Each 

 scale on side with a few browrush points or dots so that indistinct 

 longitudinal series are formed. Iris brownish with a darker ring. 

 Length 4i inches. Headwaters of the Tocantius. H. H. Smith. 

 Also 3 other examples with same data showing: Head 3f to 3f ; depth 

 2i to 2i; D. iii, 9; A. iv, 28, i to iv, 29, i, usually latter; scales 38 to 

 42 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 3 more on latter; 9 scales in an 

 oblicjue series from origin of dorsal back to lateral line; 7 or 8 scales 

 from base of ventral to lateral line; 9 scales from origin of anal tc 

 lateral line; 15 or 16 scales before dorsal; total length of specimens 3 

 to 4^ inches. 



Cope was evidently wrong in identifying this near Tetragonopterut 

 caiulomaculatus Giinther which has onlj- 26 anal radii. 



Also two in bad condition from the Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J 

 Orton. One of these has the humeral blotch large and pronounced. 



Astyanax laoustris (Lutken). 



Head 34; depth 2J; D. iii, 9; A. iv, 27, i; scales 35 in lateral hne to 

 base of caudal, and 2 more on latter ; 8 scales obliquely back from origin 

 of dorsal to lateral line, and 5 scales in same way from origin of adipose 

 dorsal ; 6 scales in a vertical series between base of ventral and lateral 

 line; 7 scales between origin of anal and lateral line; 14 scales before 

 dorsal; snout 4 in head, measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 2|; 

 maxillaiy 2|; interorbital space 2f; least depth of caudal peduncle 2J; 

 pectoral 1^; ventral If. ilaxillary toothless, and reaching front 

 margin of pupil. Rakers about 10 + 15, slender, and a little shorter 

 than filaments. In alcohol brownish, lower surface and sides paler or 

 whitish and everj-where more or less washed with silvery. An ellip- 

 soid blotch of blackish, in length about equal to orbit, on shoulder. 

 Base of caudal pale brownish and median caudal rays brownish. A 

 silvery streak from shoulder to caudal. Iris silver3--brassy. Length 

 2-fji inches. Para, Brazil. De Schulte Buckow. Coll. J. C. Bre- 

 voort. 




434 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



This example agrees largely with Liitken's excellent figure. 

 Astyanax orientalis (Cope). Fig. 35. 



Head 3^ to 3f ; depth 2^ to 2f ; D. in, 9; A. iv, 27 to 29; eye 2f to 2|- 

 in head measured from tip of upper jaw; interorbital space 2f. Body 

 well compressed. Snout broad, with convex surface. Teeth as 

 usual in the genus. Maxillary toothless. Tongue thick, fleshy and 

 little free. Interorbital space broad and convex. Gill-opening ex- 

 tends nearly opposite front margin of orbit. Rakers 9 -|- 14, lanceo- 



Fig. 35. — Astyanax orientalis (Cope). 



late, and much shorter than filaments, which are f of orbit. A few 

 striae on each scale. Tubes in lateral line simple. Vent close in 

 front of anal. Color in alcohol brownish, peritoneum showing through 

 paler. Fins all pale brownish. Lower side of head silvery. An 

 elongate blackish-brown humeral blotch and a similar shade at base 

 of caudal continued out on median rays. A rather indistinct silvery 

 band from shoulder to base of caudal. Length of largest, with dam- 

 aged caudal, 2^ inches. Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana. Dr. Charles 

 Hering. 




1906.] NATUKAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



These examples seem to agree best with Tetragonoptenis orientalis 

 Cope. The discrepancies in the depth of the body may be accounted 

 for b}' age, as the younger ones are more elongate. The anterior anal 

 raj'S are however much longer than the others. The eye was evidently 

 found to be -3 in the head, which also may possibly be attributed to 

 age, though mj- examples show it but a httle less than interorbital 

 space. 



Tetragonoptenis viejita Valenciennes may be closety related or 

 identical, as it agrees in some respects, though it is impossible to con- 

 sider it on account of the imperfect diagnosis. 



Astyanaz rutilus (Jenyns). 



Teiragonopierus ndilus Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., XXXIII, 

 1S94 (January 5), p. 87. Brazilian province of Rio Grande do t?ul. H. 

 H. Smith. 



Head 3f to 4J; depth 2* to 2f ; D. iii, 9, rarely iii, 10; A. iv, 2.5. i to 

 IV, 28, 1, usually 25 or 26 developed raj-s, rarely 27 or 28; scales 35 to 40 

 in lateral line to base of caudal, usually 37 or 38. and 3 more on latter; 7 

 scales in an oblique series back from origin of dorsal to lateral line, 

 rarely S; 5 or 6 scales, usually latter, from base of ventral to lateral 

 line: usually 6 scales from origin of anal, not counting those on base of 

 fin, to lateral line; 15 or 16 scales before dorsal; length of 12 specimens 

 ranging from 2 to 6 inches. 



I differ with Cope concerning the statement that this species re- 

 sembles Astyanax jequitinhoncB (Steindachner). ^lost of my specimens 

 agree quite well with the latter's figure of A. ruiilits. 



Astyanax jacuMensis (Cope). 



TetragonojAenis janihiensis Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila.. XXXIII, 

 1S94 (January 5), p. 8S. PI. 6. fig. 6. Con-pes, 21.606 to 21.611: 21.683 

 to 21,703; 2l",912 (Xype) to 21,916, A. N. S. P. The Jacuhy (Brazilian 

 province of Rio Grande do Sul). H. H. Smith. 



Head Sf; depth 2,^; D. iii, 9; A. iv, 28, i; scales 35 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal, and 2 more on latter; 6 scales obliquely back from 

 origin of dorsal to lateral line; 8 scales in a vertical series between 

 origin of anal in lateral line: pectoral IJ in head; ventral If; snout 3f 

 in head measured from tip of upper jaw; eye Si; maxUlary 2j; inter- 

 orbital space 2|. Body compressed. Predorsal and postventral 

 regions with low median keel, postdorsal rounded and preventral with 

 a low keel on each side. Lips rather fleshy-. Teeth as usual. Tongue 

 small, rounded, and little free in front. No maxillaiy teeth. Inter- 

 orbital space convex and rather broad. GiU-opening forward to 

 anterior nostril. Rakers 9 + 12?, longest f of filaments, which are 

 f of orbit. Scales striate. Tubes in lateral line simple. Color in 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



alcohol dull brownish, hack darker than lower surface and everj'- 

 where more or less sheened with dull silvery. A dusky blotch at base 

 of caudal and another rounded one on humeral region. Former 

 extends midway on side of caudal peduncle, and medianlj' out on 

 caudal. Humeral spot in a pale area bordered posteriorly \%-ith dusky. 

 Also a dusky streak sloping down from humeral spot towards pectoral. 

 On scales just behind gill-opening above base of pectoral a dusky shade. 

 Fins all pale brownish. Iris brownish with a chestnut ring. Length, 

 caudal damaged, 4J inches. TjqDe. 



The other coty^es show: Head 3^ to 3|; depth 2 to 2f ; D. iii, 8 

 rarely, usually, iii, 9, and occasionally in, 10; A. iv, 21, i to iv, 27, i, 

 usually 25, i, or 26, i; scales 31 to 34 in lateral line to base of caudal, 

 and mostly 2 or 3 more on latter; 6 to 8 scales obhquely back from 

 origin of dorsal to lateral line, usually 7; 5 to 7 scales obliquely or 

 vertically between origin of ventral and lateral line, usually 6, less 

 frequently 7, and rarely 5; 12 to 16 scales before dorsal, mostly 14, 

 sometimes 13, less frequently 15 and rarely 12 or 16; pectoral 1^ to 

 1^ in head; ventral IJ to If ; total length of specimens l|f to 4J inches. 

 Cope's figure fails to indicate the anterior anal rays as a little longer 

 than the others. The j^oung appear more evenly ellipsoid than the 

 adults. 



Astyanax atahnalpianns sp. nov. Fig. 36. 



Tetraqonopterus agassizii Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Pliila., XVII, 

 1S77-78 (May 17, 1S78), p. 691. Near Pebas. Prof. J. Orton. 



Head 34; depth 2|; D. in, 9; A. iii, 21 ; P. i, 11; V. i, 7; scales (squa- 

 mation damaged) about 24? in lateral line to base of caudal, and 2 or 3 

 more evidently on latter; about 6? scales obliquely back from origin 

 of dorsal to lateral line; about 4? scales vertically from origin of anal to 

 lateral line; width of head about 2 J in its length; depth of head, over 

 middle of orbit, 1^; mandible 2\; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; 

 snout 3| in head, measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 2f ; maxillary 

 2; interorbital space 24. 



Bod}- elongate, rather ellipsoid, well compressed, upper profile 

 perhaps a little more convex, and greatest depth apparently at origin 

 of dorsal. Caudal peduncle compressed, and its least depth about 

 equal to length. 



Head moderately short, deep, compressed, muzzle blunt and hea\'y, 

 and upper profile nearly straight from snout to occiput. Snout short, 

 rather narrow, and surface convex. Eye circular, a little anterior and 

 superior. Mouth large and a little inclined. Maxillary long, oblique, 

 its greatest width a trifle more than half of pupil, and its posterior 




1906; 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



437 



extremity reaching beyond front margin of orbit, but not till opposite 

 front margin of pupil. Mandible strong, protruding bej'ond tip of 

 upper jaw, and rami not elevated inside of mouth. Lips rather thin. 

 Teeth in jaws mostly quindentate, 4 on each side, in an outer series 

 above, and those forming mandibular series large and powerful. Max- 

 illary with 2 basal denticles. Tongue apparently flattened, a little 

 elongate and hardly free. Nostrils, as usual, in front of eye above. 

 Interorbital space moderate, and convex. Opercle deep, and upper 

 posterior edge emarginate. Greatest width of infraorbital rim 

 greater than greatest exposed breadth of opercle. 



Fig. 36. — Astyanax atnhualpiamis Fowler. 



Gill-opening extending forward about opposite posterior extremity 

 of maxillary. Rakers about 8 + 11?, lanceolate, and shorter than 

 filaments which are about ^ of orbit. Isthmus narrowly triangular. 



Scales mostly fallen, cycloid, each with several stride, thin, large, not 

 narrowly imbricated, and apparently disposed in longitudinal series 

 parallel with lateral line. Base of anal apparently with a low sheath 

 of small scales. Base of caudal also covered with small scales. Lateral 

 line apparently as usual or a little decurved, then sloping up to base of 

 caudal, though a little low at first along side of caudal peduncle. 

 Tubes simple. 



Origin of dorsal much nearer base of caudal than tip of mandible 




43S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



and anterior raj^s apparently well elevated. Anal inserted just 

 behind base of last dorsal ray, also nearer base of caudal than origin of 

 pectoral, and anterior rays apparently elongated. Caudal forked, 

 lobes apparently pointed. Pectoral small, evidently not attaining 

 ventral(?). Ventral inserted a little before origin of dorsal or nearly 

 midwaj^ between origin of pectoral ami that of anal, and perhaps 

 reaching(?) latter. 



Color in alcohol brownish, back darker, and side evidently silvered. 

 Fins brownish, except base of caudal which is largely blackish. No 

 trace of humeral blotch. Iris brownish. 



Length l-f| inches (caudal damaged). 



Type, No. 21,435, A. N. S. P. Near Pebas, Peru. Prof. J. Orton. 

 CoU. of 1877. Prof. E. D. Cope. Also paratype, No. 21,436, A.'N. S. 

 P., with same data. Both in poor preservation. 



This form is very close to Astyanax agassizii (Steindachner), differing, 

 as Cope long pointed out, in the longer body. It also has fewer anal 

 radii. 



(Named for Atahualpa, among the last of the unfortunate Incas of 

 Peru, who wa.g strangled by the Spaniards at Cajamarca, August 29, 

 1533.) 



Astyanax oligolepis (Gunther). Fig. 37. 



Width of head If in its length; interorbital space 2^. Body com- 

 pressed. Predorsal region with a median romided ridge, postdorsal and 

 preventral regions rounded, and postventral region a little tren- 

 chant. Head compressed. Snout Ijroad with convex sm-face. 

 Lips rather thin. Teeth as usual, with a small one at base of 

 maxillary. Tongue a, little pointed and rather attenuated. Inter- 

 orbital space broadly convex. Gill-opening forward opposite end 

 of maxillary. Rakers 9+11, about f length of filaments which 

 are f of eye. Scales with several radiating striiE. Tubes in 

 lateral line simple. Color in alcohol brownish, evidently discolored 

 greenish. About 8 or 9 longitudinal dark strealis, each one following in 

 courses of scales at their junctions above and below. Fins more or 

 less plain brownish, and dorsal and caudal perhaps a little darker. Iris 

 dull orange-brown. Length 3y\ inches. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. 

 J. Orton Coll. Also 2 other examples. 



The above account agrees largely with Dr. Giinther's, though the eye 

 is larger and the maxillary extends to the front margin of the eye in 

 his examples. In mine there are indistinct traces of both caudal and 

 humeral spots which I suspect have more or less faded. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



439 



ff^.'--,. 













Fig. 37. — Asttjanax oligolepis (Giinther). 



Astyanax abramis (Jenyns). 



Tetragonojiterus sp. indet. Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 

 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 691. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Head 3 to 3f; depth 2f to 3; D. iii, 9; A. iv, 24? (usually more) to 30: 

 scales about 44 to 48 (according to pockets) in lateral line to base of 

 caudal and usually 3 more on latter; 19 to 21 scales before dorsal, the 

 usual number 19 or 20; 10 to 12 scales in an oblique series back from 

 origin of dorsal to lateral line; about 7? to 9 scales in a vertical series 

 from origin of anal to lateral line; eye 2J to 3^ in head, measuretl from 

 tip of upper jaw; length of specimens (caudals damaged) 2| to 3-J- 

 inches. A tooth at base of maxillary. Coll. of 1S73. A series of 25 

 poorly preserved examples. 



The larger examples are deeper and have the anal beginning a little 

 before bases of last dorsal rays. Pectoral reaching a little bej'ond 

 origin of ventral, and latter reaches that of anal. Caudal and humeral 

 blotches evident in alcohol. Pectoral and ventral blackish, and anal 

 also finely specked with dusky. 



Although certain minor discrepancies may he noted between 

 Jenyns' figure and these examples I believe they are itlentical. Jenyns 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



fails to indicate either the humeral or the caudal blotch which are 

 here very distinct. 



Dr. Eigemnann has recently recorded under the name Pcecilurichthys 

 abramis some specimens from Paraguay which apparently are the 

 present species. 



Tetragonoptems ohaloeus Agassiz.', 



Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila.. 1S71 (1872), p. 260. Ambyiacu River, 

 ^ Equador. John Hauxwell. Cope, I.e., p. 291. Between the mouth 



of the Rio Negro and the Peru\-ian Amazon or Ucayale River. Robert 



Perkins. Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1877-78 



(May 17, 1S7S), p. 691. Maranon. Prof. J. Orton. 

 Tetragonopterm ortonii Cope. I.e. XI, 1869-70 (August 16, 1870), p. 566. 



Pebas, Peru. John Hauxwell. 



Head 3 to 3|; depth If to 2; D. in, 9; A. iv, 30, i to iv, 36, i, usually 

 33 tleveloped raj'S, frecjuently 34, and other numbers rare or exceptional; 

 29 to 31 scales in lateral line to base of caudal, usually 30, and 3 more on 

 latter; 8 scales in an oblique series back from origin of dorsal to lateral 

 line; 5 scales from root of ventral to lateral line; 6 scales from origin 

 of anal, not counting any on fin, to lateral line; length of 13 examples 

 from 2if to 4f inches. Hauxwell, Perkins and Orton. 



The example recorded from Pebas, eastern Peru, by Cope as T. 

 ortonii is identical. It shows: Head 2|; depth about 1^; D. in, 9; 

 A. lA', 33?; scales (squamation damaged) about 28? in lateral line to 

 base of caudal ; snout about 4 in head, measured from tip of upper jaw; 

 eye 2 J ; interorbital space 3. A dusky blotch at base of caudal. Length 

 (caudal damaged) 2-^ inches. John Haux^'ell. 



Tetragonopterus ortonii Gill is possibly this species, though I have 

 not examined the tj-pe. 



Tetragonopterus ovalis (Gunther). Fig. 38. 



Tetragonopterus chaleeus Cope, Proc. Amer. PMlos. Soc. Phila., XV'II, 

 1S77-7S (May 17, 1878), p. 691. Maranon. Prof . J. Orton. 



Interorbital space 2J in head. Body compressed. Predorsal region 

 with a median keel, postdorsal region rounded, preventral region a little 

 broad and flattened ■with a lateral keel on each side, and postventral 

 region trenchant. Snout broad and convex. Several small teeth 

 at base of maxillar}^ inside. Some teeth in inner series of upper 

 jaw with more than 5 cusps. Tongue fleshy, thick and little free. 

 Interorbital space broad and convex. Gill-opening fon\-ard oppo- 

 site anterior margin of orbit. Rakers 9 + 11, lanceolate, half of 

 filaments, which are 4 of eye. Each scale with several radiating 

 striae. Tubes in lateral line simple. Vent shortly before anal. 

 Color in alcohol with scales faded brassy-brown, back darker, also 

 top of head. Side of head burni.shed silver}'. Fins pale brownish. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



441 



Where scales fell from trunk a broad silvery band exposed, extending 

 from eye to middle of base of caudal. Hmneral and caudal spots if 

 present in life now faded entirely. Iris reddish-brown. Length 2f- 

 inches. Coll. of 1877. 



Fig. 38. — Tetragonoplerus ovahs (Giinther). 



Plethodeotes erythrurus Cope. 



Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Plula., XI, 1869-70 (August 19, 1870), p. 563, 

 figs. 6 and 6n. Type, No. 8,032, A. N. S. P. Pebas, Equador. John 

 HauxweU. 



Chakeus erythrurus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 262 

 (type). 



Width of head 2^ in its length; interorbital space 2J in head meas- 

 ured from tip of upper jaw. Body compressed, and dorsal edge 

 apparently rounded. Head compressed. Snout about as broad as 

 long, and rounded when viewed from above. Gill-opening reaching 

 tip of maxillary. Rakers 7 + 9?, little shorter than filaments, which 

 equal pupil. Each scale with about 5 striae. Tubes in lateral line 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



simple. Color in alcohol brown, abdomen and lower surface of head 

 paler, especially that of muzzle. Upper surface of head brown. 

 Dorsal, anal and ventral dusky-brown, latter deepest. Caudal, ex- 

 cept dusky-brown median rays, pale brownish. Pectoral pale brown- 

 ish. Lips brownish. Iris silvered brown. Length 2^"^ inches 

 (caudal damaged). Type. 



Cope states concerning the scales "transverse (above 1. line) 16," 

 which is surely wrong as he already had stated ' ' scales large, 1. series 6 

 at ventrals." 



PELLEGRININA gen. nov. 

 Type Pellegrinina heterolepis sp. no\-. 



This genus differs from Alestes, Brachyalestes and Brycinus in the 

 short anal basis and large dorsal scales. . 



(Named for Dr. J. Pellegrin, of the Maseima of Natural History, 

 Paris, author of many important contributions to Ichthyology.) 



Pellegrinina heterolepis sp. nov. Fig. 39. 



Head 3; depth 3i; D. iii, 10; A. iii, 9, i; P. ii, 15; V. ii, 8; scales 

 about 29? (squamation damaged) in lateral line to base of caudal, and 

 several more on latter; 4 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral 

 line; 3 scales between origin of adipose fin and lateral line; 2 scales 

 between base of ventral and lateral line; 2 scales between origin of 

 anal and lateral line; 9 scales before dorsal; width of head 2 in its 

 length; depth of head over posterior margin of orbit If; snout 3^; eye 

 3f ; maxillary 3; mandible 2f ; interorbital space 2|; third dorsal ray 

 1^; third anal ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle 3; pectoral \l; 

 ventral \h. 



Body elongate, rather slender, well compressed, profiles similarly and 

 slightly convex with greatest depth about middle of depressed pectoral. 

 Predorsal region with a very obsolete median keel. Breast flattened, 

 and preventral region otherwise similar to predorsal. Postventral 

 region with a median obsolete keel, also postanal. Postdorsal region 

 rounded, keel not evident. Caudal peduncle small, well compressed, 

 and its length a little less than least depth. 



Head elongate, broad above, sides flattened and becoming some- 

 what constricted below, profiles similar. Snout broad, rounded when 

 viewed from above. Eye large, circular, anterior and high. Jaws 

 large, about even. Maxillary rather small, narrow, reaching a little 

 past front of orbit though not to front rim of pupil. Teeth in upper 

 jaw triserial, outer series 17, slender and tridentate, and second series 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



443 



of 4 anteriorly resembling inner series except smaller. Inner series 

 of upper teeth 11, broad, compressed, quindentate and surface crenu- 

 late. Mandible with about 11 robust cjuindentate teeth in an outer 

 series, and a recurved canine forming an inner series, one on each side 

 of symphysis. Outer series of mandibular teeth continued along each 

 ramus of mandible posteriorly, where it is also not elevated inside 

 mouth, as verj' weak denticles. Along edge of maxillary some weak 

 denticles, most developed and crowded towards its base. Buccal 

 membranes in mouth rather broad. Tongue small, little free. Nos- 

 trils together, close in front and falling nearly opposite middle in depth 



Fig. 39. — Pellegrinina heterolepis Fowler. 



of eye. Interorbital space broad and but slightly convex, not ele- 

 vated. Infraorbital broadest in chain, and its greatest exposed width 

 not quite equal to that of opercle. Bones in orbital chain, and opercle, 

 with slight striiE marginally. 



Gill-opening extending forward about opposite front rim of pupil. 

 Gill-rakers about 7 + 9 weak points less than half of pupil in length. 

 Filaments about equal to pupil. Isthmus narrow, with a convex 

 surface. 



Scales cycloid of various size, those on upper half large, and lower 

 reduced and of crowded appearance. Each scale with radiating 

 striae. Scales along base of anal and caudal small. Lateral line of 

 simple tubes, deciu-ved and extending rather low till on base of caudal. 




444 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



Origin of dorsal falling nearly midway between front margin of eye 

 and base of caudal, and third ray apparently longest, others graduated 

 down. Adipose dorsal inserted near last foiu'th in space Ijetween 

 origin of dorsal and base of caudal, and its length about § of orbit. 

 Anal inserted well behind base of dorsal or nearly midway between 

 origin of dorsal and base of caudal, and graduated from about fovu-th 

 ray, which is apparently longest. Caudal emarginate and lobes appar- 

 ently pointed. Pectoral long, reaching a little beyond ventral. Xen- 

 tral inserted a little in front of dorsal, and reaching nearly | of space 

 to anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish, upper surface apparently scarcely 

 darker. Fins plain pale brownish, dorsal with a brownish blotch 

 basaUy, made up of specks, also one on anal, and ventrals dottetl 

 brownish. A large dusky humeral blotch. Iris brassy. 



Length 4f inches (caudal damaged). 



Type, No. 8,150, A. X. S. P. Probably some part of West Africa. 

 A single example. 



( Erepoi, various; As-'i?, scale.) 



Fig. 40. — Brachyalestes nurse ruppellii (Gilnther). 



Braohyalestes nurse riippellii (Gunther). Fig. 40. 



Alestes ruppellii Gunther, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1896 (Februarj- 4), p. 

 22.3. Lake Rudolf. Dr. A. D. .Smith. 



Width of head 2^ in its length ; interorbital space 3i in head measured 

 from tip of upper jaw Body well compressed and edges apparentlj' 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



445 



all rounded. Head compressed. Snout short, a little broader than 

 long, and edge strongly convex as viewed from above. Mouth broad. 

 No maxOlary teeth. Tongue small and hardly free. Interorbital 

 space a little convex. Gill-opening reaches front margin of pupil. 

 Rakers 12 + 17?, slender, about f of orbit and shorter than filaments. 

 Each scale with 1 or more inconspicuous radiating stria;. Tubes in 

 lateral line simple. Color in alcohol more or less silvery, and back and 

 upper surface of head brown with pale purple reflections. Jaws pale 

 brownish, also fins, dorsal and caudal hardly darker. Iris brassy. 

 Length 2| inches. 



Brachyalestes affinis (GUnther). Fig. 41. 



Alest^s affinis (Giinther), Proc. Zool. Soe. London, 1896 (February 4), p. 

 223. ShebeU River, Africa. Dr. A. D. Smith. 



Width of head If in its length ; interorbital space 2| in head meas- 

 ured from tip of upper jaw. Body well compressed, and edges ap- 

 parently all rounded. Head robust. Snout convex on surface, and 

 obtuse when viewed above. Mouth broad. No maxillary teeth. 



Fig. 41. — Brachyakstes affinis (Giinther). 



Tongue small and not free. Interorbital space broad and evenly con- 

 vex. Gill-opening reaching front rim of pupil. Rakers 12 -1- 15, 

 slender, and longest | of pupil. Each scale with many reticulating 

 striae. Color in alcohol faded plain pale brownish, and back and upper 

 30 




446 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



surface but a shade darker. Traces of a broad silvery lateral band, 

 about equal to orbit in width, extends to caudal. Traces of a brownish 

 blotch at shoulder and of another at base of upper caudal lobe. Fins 

 pale brownish, dorsal and caudal hardly darker. Iris brassy-brown. 

 Length (caudal damaged) 4f inches. 



Bryoon capito Cope. Fig. 42. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S71 (1S72), p. 261. Tj'pe, No. 8,0.58, A. N. 

 S. P. Ambyiacu River John Hauxwell. 



Width of head 2} in its length ; interorbital space 3 in head measured 

 from tip of vipper jaw. Body well compressed. Head compressed. 

 Snout broader than long, depressed above. Teeth in mandible 

 largest, especially 6 anterior ones which are quindentate. Rami not 

 elevated, with small simple conic teeth like those in front of upper jaw 

 and becoming graduated posteriorly. Outer series of teeth in upper 

 jaw like those on side of lower. vSmaller ones continued out on edges 

 of ma.xillaries in a single series its entire length, though more properly a 



Fig. 42. — Brycon capito Cope. 



continuation of inner series in upper jaw. In front of upper jaw teeth 

 somewhat triserial with innermost quindentate and enlarged. An 

 inner series formed of 2 conic teeth at symphysis. Tongue narrow 

 anteriorly, little free. Interorbital space broad and flat. Gill-opening 

 to first I of eye. Rakers 9 + 15, slender, and shorter than longest 

 filaments, which are f of eye. Vent close in front of anal. Color in 

 alcohol brownish-gray, becoming leaden on sides and whitish below. 

 Fins pale brownish, and middle rays of caudal darker brown than rest 

 of fin. Side of head silvery. Iris brassy-brown. Length 2J inches. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



Bryoon melanopterum (Cope). 



Megalobn/cnn melanopterum Cope, Proe. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1871 (1S72), 

 p. 262, PI. 13, fig. 1. Cotypes, Nos. 8,035 (type) and 8,036, A. N. S. P. 

 Ambyiacu River. John Hauxwell. 



Width of head 2 in its length; interorbital space 2f. Body com- 

 pressed, and edges apparently all rounded. Head becoming more or 

 less constricted below. Snout broad, rounded when viewed above. 

 Mouth broad. Outer enlarged mandibular teeth 8, quindentate, and 

 lateral series becoming smaller posteriorly. An inner lateral series of 

 mandibular teeth, small, and at symphysis a small conic tooth inside, 

 ^laxillary toothed, its entire edge in a single series. Teeth in upper 

 jaw triserial anteriorly, laterally biserial, and each of inner series at 

 least tridentate, those in third anterior series enlarged and quindentate. 

 Tongue thick, fleshy and little free. Interorbital space broadly con- 

 ve.x. Gill-opening to about first i of eye. Rakers about S + 13, 

 lanceolate, and longest ^ of longest filaments, which are y of eye. 

 Scales strongly striate and finely cOiate. Color in alcohol pale 

 brownish, back and upper surface of head a little deejjer colored. 

 Fins pale brownish, and dorsal, caudal and anal tinted a little 

 brownish. Along middle of upper caudal lobe longitudinally a dusky- 

 brown blotch, deepest at base of lobe. This margined below diffusely 

 with grayish-white. Along base of anal a brownish shade. Iris brassy- 

 brown. Length 6f inches (caudal damaged). Type. 



Also 4 examples from the Peruvian Ajiiazon from Prof. James Orton 

 Coll. 



Though I allow the above specimens of this species as distinct from 

 Mcgalobri/con cephalus Giinther, it is possible that they may be found 

 identical. Cope pointed out that M. melanopterum differs in the outer 

 series of teeth in the upper jaw being more than double the size of 

 those on the maxillary, as stated for M. cephalus by Dr. Giinther. 

 The apparently uniform coloration is a feature of striking difference, 

 and as Dr. Giinther's examples were 13 inches long, may be one of 

 age. Brycon falcatus Miiller and Troschel, from Guiana, is also related. 



Chalcinus albus (Cope). 



Triporlheus alhus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 264, 

 PL 14, fig. 3. Tyipe, No. 21,234, A. N. S. P. Amln-iacu River. Jolin 

 Hauxwell. 



Width of head 2 J in its length ; interorbital space 3 in head measm-ed 

 from tip of upper jaw. Body strongly compressed and preventral 

 region trenchant. Snout with convex surface, and rounded when 

 viewed from above. Teeth in upper jaw mostly biserial, or only 

 irregularly triserial, quindentate, and median inner series expanded 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



and enlarged. Mandibular teeth iinLserial, except 2 simple conic ones 

 in font at symphysis forming an inner series. On each ramus of man- 

 dible 4 anterior enlarged and distinctl3'quindentate teeth. At base of 

 maxillary 2 small denticles. Tongue rather narrow, a little fleshy, 

 rounded and hardly free in front. Interorbital space rather broad 

 and convex. Gill-opening reaching opposite anterior margin of pupil. 

 Rakers 13 -I- 22, slender, fine, shorter than filaments, which are 4 of 

 orbit. Color in alcohol faded brownish, more or less leaden on sides, 

 and side of head and abdomen silvered. Fins pale brownish, middle 

 of caudal dusky. Lips brownish. Iris brownish. Length 2J inches 

 (caudal damaged). 



Chaloinns angalatns (.\gassiz). 



ChaUinus hrachypoimis Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Pliila., XI, 1S69-70 



(August 19, 1870), p. 566. Pebas, Eastern Peru. John Hauxwell. 



Cope, I.e. Para. De Schulte Buckow. 

 Triportheus ilarus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1871 (1872), p. 264, PI. 



14, fig. 1. Cotypes, Nos. 8,077 (tj-pe) to 8,080, k. N. S. P. .\mbyiacu 



River. John Hauxwell. 

 Triporiheus jiematunis Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., X'SII, 1877-78 



(May 17, 1878), p. 692. Peru\'ian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Head 3| ; depth 2i ; D. ii, 9 ; A. iv, 27, i ; scales 34 in lateral line to base 

 of caudal, and apparently 4 more on latter; 6 scales obliquely back 

 from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 3 scales between origin of anal and 

 lateral Hne; 16 scales before dorsal; pectoral 2^ in head and trunk; 

 mandible 3 in head, measured from tip of lower jaw; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 3; ventral 1^; snout 4 in head, measured from tip of 

 upper jaw; eye 3J; maxillaiy 3; interorbital space 3. Rakers 16 + 37, 

 slender, fme, more or less subequal, and longest about f of longest fil- 

 aments which are f of orbit. Lower lip with a fleshy cirrus on each 

 side about half of orbit. In alcohol brassy-brown eveiywhere with 

 more or less silvered reflections. Dorsal, caudal and pectoral dusted 

 with dull brownish. Iris brownish. Length 6| inches (caudal 

 damaged). Type. 



Other examples in the collection are one from Pebas in eastern Peru, 

 John HauxT\-ell; one from Para in Brazil, De Schulte Buckow; one 

 identified as Triportheus riematurus from the Peruvian Amazon, Prof. 

 James Orton, in the collection of 1873. 



All the examples now before me show the following extent of var- 

 iation: Head 3^ to 4J; depth 2^ to 3i; D. ii or iii, 8 to 10, usually 9, 

 though sometimes 9 or 10; A. iii or iv, 25, i to 29, i, usually 27, i, some- 

 times 26, I or 28, i, and rarely 25, i or 29, i ; scales 30 to 34 in lateral 

 line to base of caudal, usually 3 or 4 on latter; 6 or 7 scales obliquely 

 back from origin of dorsal to lateral line, usually 6; 3 or 4 scales between 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



449 



origin of anal and lateral line; 14 to 17 scales before dorsal, usually 15 or 

 16; snout 4 to 4|- in head, measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 2f to 3f ; 

 maxillary 2§ to 3|; length of depressed pectoral (mostly damaged) 

 about 2i to 3 ; length of examples 3 J to 6| inches. 



Cope's figure, which however may not have been drawn from the 

 specimen which is here restricted as the type, differs in having the 

 abdominal profile more undulate, the absence of mandibular cirri, 

 the radii of anal anteriorly much lower, and the adipose fin too small. 

 The mandibular cirri are present in most eveiy case examined, though 

 in the adult they are much shorter and inconspicuous. 



Granting Dr. Giinther's argmnent concerning Agassiz's figure of 

 Chalceus angulatus, it is reasonably certain that my specimens belong 

 to that species. 



Chaloinus brachipomus Valenciennes. Fig. 43. 



Width of head 2 in its length ; interorbital space 2 J in head measured 

 from tip of upper jaw. Body strongly compressed. Back rounded 

 along edge. Preventral and postventral regions trenchant. Snout 

 broad, surface convex, and roimded when viewed above. Teeth in 



Fig. 43. — Chahinus brachipomus Valenciennes. 



upper jaw biserial, 3 median ones of inner series compressed and some- 

 what enlarged. Mandible with 5 teeth on side of each ramus anter- 

 iorly enlarged, and at symphysis 2 conical teeth. At least 2 small 

 teeth on inner base of ma.xillary more or less concealed by lips. Tongue 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



thick, fleshy, pointed and tip little free. Interorbital space rather 

 broad and evenly convex. Gill-opening forward to front of eye. 

 Rakers 19 + 41 , longest about y of filaments which are * of eye. Scales 

 all well striated. Tubes in lateral line arborescent and rather long. 

 Color in alcohol brassy-brown, back darker than lower surface. Upper 

 siuf ace of head brownish, sides and below pale or more brassy. Pec- 

 toral and dorsal dusted brownish, caudal paler. Ventral and anal 

 whitish. Iris brassy-brown. Length 7^ inches. Demarara River, 

 British Guiana. E. D. Cope. 



This species has apparently been confused, and it is not improbable 

 that Chalcinus rotundatus (Jardine) may be found really the name 

 applicable. Jardine's figure and account are, however, too crude and 

 incomplete to permit of certain identification. In fact the anterior 

 position of the dorsal fin as indicated by the figure would point more to 

 C. angulatus (Agassiz). Under C. brachipomus, the statement "la 

 dorsale e.st assez reculee sur la dos et presque opposee a I'anale qui 

 est longue et basse" by Valenciennes, may perhaps be better referred to 

 that designated as C. brachypomus by Dr. Giinther. I see no reason 

 for Prof. Garman indicating Dr. Giinther's examples as identical with 

 the one from the Amazons under a new name, which is afterwards 

 accepted by Dr. and Mrs. Eigenmann. These latter writers, and also 

 Prof. Ulrey, unite Clialceus angulatus Agassiz with Chalcimis brachi- 

 pomus Valenciennes, a proceeding which I am unable to accept. The 

 latter may be distinguished from the former by the more posterior 

 insertion of the dorsal. 



COSCINOXYRON gen. nov. 

 Type Chalcinus culler Cope. 



Gill-rakers fine, long and numerous on first arch, about 90 to 100. 

 Dorsal inserted well posteriorly, or about last third in length of head 

 and trunk. 



(Ao<T«iv()'/, sieve; ^opuv^ razor ; reference to the gill-rakers and 

 cultrate body.) 



Coscinoxyron oulter (Cope). 



Chalcituis culler Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S71 (1872), p. 26.5. PI. 

 14, fig. 3. T\T5e, No. 16,672, A. N. S. P. Ambviacu River. John 



Hauxwell. Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1S77-78 



(May 17, 1878), p. 692. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Width of head 2§ in its length ; interorbital space 3|- in head meas- 

 ured from tip of upper jaw. Body strongly compressed. Head 

 well compressed, becoming constricted below. Surface of snout 

 somewhat flattened above. Teeth a little small, those in upper 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



jaw crowded into 2 irregular series, inner a little larger, and all more 

 or less tridentate. No maxillary teeth. Mandibular teeth uniserial, 

 but little larger than those in upper jaw, and at symphysis 

 2 close behind outer series. Tongue slender, pointed, fleshj^ and 

 little free. Interorbital space broad and convex. GiU-opening for- 

 ward opposite anterior margin of eye. Rakers 30 + 65, ciliiform, 

 slender and longer than filaments or i of eye. Color in alcohol plumbe- 

 ous-brown on back, side and lower surface leaden, and side of head 

 silvered. Fins all diluted brown, pectoral and caudal dusted with dull 

 brownish dots, and median rays of latter all more or less deep brown. 

 Iris brownish. Length 6 inches. Type. 



The 2 examples from the Peruvian Amazon show : Head 3f 

 to 4; depth 3*; D. ii, 9; A. iv, 28 or 29; scales about 40 (squama- 

 tion injured) in lateral line to base of caudal, and 3 or 4 more 

 on latter; about 8 scales (according to pockets) obliquely back from 

 origin of dorsal to lateral line, and 3 between latter and origin of anal; 

 about 23 to 25 (squamation injured) before dorsal ; mandible 3i to SJ in 

 head; snout 4* to 4f in head, measured from tip of lower jaw; eye 4^ 

 to 4^; interorbital space 3f to 3J; pectoral 3 in head and trunk; length 

 of fishes (caudal damaged) 8| inches. 



As with Triportheus flavus and T. albus Cope's figure does not show 

 the mandibular cirrus, a character present in all of the examples of the 

 present species, though smaller in the larger. The dark median 

 basal blotch on the caudal is also not shown on his figure. 



Fseadooorynopoma dorise Perugia. 



Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soe. Phila., XXXIII, 1S94 (January 5), p. 86. 

 Jaeuliy (Brazilian pro\dnce of Rio Grande do Sul). H. H. Smith. 



Head 3* to 4; depth 2* to 3; D. ii, 9; A. iv or v, usually v, 30, i to 

 39, I, usually 34, i, frequently 32, i or 35, i, and only seldom 30. i or 

 39, i; scales 33 to 40 in lateral line to base of caudal and usually 1 or 2 

 more on latter; 7 or 8 scales oblicjuely back from origin of dorsal to 

 lateral line; 6 to 8 scales, usually 7, between origin of anal and lateral 

 line in a vertical series; 16 to 21 scales before dorsals, though usually 18 

 or 19; snout 3f to 4^ in head, measiu-ed from tip of upper jaw; eye 3 

 to 3J; maxillary 2^ to 2^; interorbital space 2\ to 3; pectoral 2f to 

 3| in head and trunk; length of body (caudals damaged) If to 2^ 

 inches. In all 17 examples. 



Some, apparently females, do not appear to have the dorsal much 

 enlarged, and the anal also smaller. Fully developed males show 

 the distal end of each elongated anterior anal ray with a single series 

 of small tubercles, evidently a character of breeding. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Subgenus GASTEROPELECUS Bloch. 



. Upper anterior profile straight. 



Gasteropelecus sterniola (Linnseus). 



Head Si; greatest deptli 1|; D. ii, 8; A. iii, 30; scales 30? (squamation 

 injured) in a lateral series from gill-opening above to base of caudal; 

 about IS scales before dorsal; 13 scales in a transverse series between 

 origin of dorsal and that of anal ; 17? scales from gill-opening at origin of 

 pectoral to that of ventral; width of head about 2 in its length; 

 mandible 2^ ; snout 4^ in head measured from tip of upper jaw ; eye 3^ ; 

 interorbital space 2\. Length 2^^ inches. Siuinam. Bonaparte 

 Coll. (No. 456.) Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



THORACOCHARAX subgen. nov. 

 Type Gasteropelecus stellatus Kner. 



Anterior profile of back convex. 

 (Baipa^, cuirass; x''P"^, Charax.) 

 Gasteropelecus stellatus Kner. 



Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70 (August 19, 1870), p. 



566. Pebas, Eastern Peru. John Hairxwell. Cope, Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 265. Ambyiacu River. John Haux- 

 ■well. 



Head 3J to 3*; depth If to If; D. ii, 12 to ii, 15, usuaUy ii. 13; A. 

 Ill, 35 to III, 39; scales (squamation damaged) 18? to 20 in a lateral 

 series from gill-opening to base of caudal; pectoral (damaged) about 

 If to 2 in head and trunk; eye 3 in head, measiu-ed from tip of upper 

 jaw; interorbital space 2 to 2f ; total length of 7 fish 1^ to 3 J inches. 

 Pebas, eastern Peru, and the Ambyiacu River. John Hauxm-ell. 



CHARACINjE. 



Asiphonichtliys sternopterus Cope. 



Amer. Nat., XXVIII, 1894, p. 67. Tj-pe, No. 21,559, A. N. S. P. Upper 

 waters of the Jacuhy River, in the Brazilian State of Rio Grande do Sul. 



H. H. Smith. Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XXXIII, 1894 



(January 5), p. 85, PI. 5, fig. 2. T}T)e. 



Width of head 2 J in its length ; interorbital space 3|. Body strongly 

 compressed, edges rather rounded. Postdorsal region a little broad 

 and preventral quite so. Postventral region well compressed. Head 

 well compressed. Snout broader than long, and surface convex. 

 Mouth broad. Mandible with rami not elevated inside of mouth. 

 Teeth in jaws small, irregularly biserial in upper, and with several 

 short canines. Mandibular teeth in front of jaw a little enlarged and 

 with at least 4 more or less developed canines. Maxillarj- with a 

 series of fine teeth along most of its edge. Interorbital space a little 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



broad and convex. Gill-opening forward about opposite front rim 

 of pupil. Bakers ii, 4 + 6, ii, rather thick and a trifle more than orbit. 

 Filaments f of orbit. Scales not striated. Color in alcohol brownish 

 with more or less silverj' reflections. A narrow pale or grayish streak 

 from shoulder to base of caudal. A grayish blotch size of pupil at 

 shoulder, and a brownish tint at base of caudal medianly. Fins aU 

 plain pale brownish. Iris brassy-brown. Length 3y% inches (caudal 

 damaged). 



This example shows the anal rather more enlarged anteriorly than 

 Cope's figure, and also the scales more evenly enlarged in the costal 

 region. 



Charaz gibbosas (Linnseus). 



Head 3|; depth 2^^; D. ii, 9; A. ii, 51; snout .3 J in head, measured 

 from tip of upper jaw; eye 3^; maxillary If; interorbital space 3f; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 3J. Surinam. Dr. Charles Hering. 

 A single small example in poor preservation about 3 inches long. 



The genus Charax Scopoli as here understood has Salnio gibbosus 

 Linnaeus as its type. 



Charax teotifer (Cope). 



Anacyrtus tectifer Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70 



(August 19, 1870), p. 565. Type, No. 8,175, A. N. S. P. Pebas, Equador. 



John Hauxwell. 

 Anaci/rtus sanguineus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 



266, PI. 9, fig. 1. Cotypes, Nos. 8,176 (tjTJe) to 8,186, A. N. S. P. 



Ambyiacu River. John Hauxwell. Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. 



PhUa., XVII, 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 686. Peruvian Amazon. 



Prof. J. Orton. 



Head 3^; depth 3; D. ii, 9; A. iii, 42, this fin damaged posteriorly, 

 a fact overlooked apparently by Cope, which would thus account for 

 "A. 37"; P. I, 12?; V. i, 7; scales about 46? (squamation injured) in 

 course of lateral line to base of caudal; there are also probably 12? 

 scales between lateral line and origin of anal, instead of 10 as noted by 

 Cope; width of head 2f in its length; depth of head, over middle of 

 orbit, about If; snout 4; eye 3J; maxillary 1^; interorbital space 3^; 

 mandible If ; least depth of caudal peduncle 3f . The other characters 

 do not appear to me to differ from those of Anacyrtus sanguineus 

 Cope. The palatine teeth( ?) are obsolete, due possibly to preservation. 

 Coloration, as described by Cope, also agrees with A. sanguineus. 

 Further, it may be stated that the anterior free margins of the nasal 

 bones are not more prolonged than in A. sanguineus, and overhang 

 tlie nostrils in a similar niamier. Type of Anacyrtus tectija- Cope. 



The cotypes of Anacyrtus sanguineus Cope show: Head 3| to 3f ; 

 depth 2| to 3; D. ii, 9; A. iv, 39, i to iv, 41, i; scales 46 to 52 in lateral 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.. 



line to base of caudal with apparently several more on latter; 12 scales 

 obliquely back from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 12 scales between 

 lateral line and origin of anal; snout 3i to 4 in head; eye 3 to 4|; 

 maxillary 1^ to If ; interorbital space 3f to 4 ; pectoral If to If ; ventral 

 If to If; total length of body Iff to 4f inches. 



Young examples differ somewhat from the adult. The scales on 

 the back are much smaller and crowded in appearance. The origin 

 of the anal begins but a trifle behind that of the dorsal in the vertical, 

 and the anterior portion of the fin is deep. Ventral reaches well 

 beyond origin of anal. The maxillary falls a little short of the pos- 

 terior orbital margin. 



Cope's figure is evidently a little faulty in that the origin of the 

 anal is opposite that of the dorsal, and the spine on the shoulder-girdle 

 in front of the base of the pectoral is omitted. 



CYRTOCHAEAX gen. nov. 

 Type Anacyrtus limoesquamis Cope. 

 Scales rough, very small or about 100 or more in lateral line. No 

 palatine teeth. 



Related to Charax Scopoli. 



{/luprd's, crooked; ;?«/>«?, Charax ; with reference to the form of 

 the body.) 



Cyrtooharax limsesquamis (Cope). Fig. 44. 



Aiutcyrtus limcesquamis Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Pliila., XVII, 1S77-7S 

 (May 17, 1S7S), p. 686. Cotypes, Xos. 21,460 (type) and 21,461, A. N. 

 S. P. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Width of head 2J in its length; interorbital space 3. Body 

 strongly compressed, edges rounded and breast broad. Head com- 

 pressed. Snout broadly convex. Teeth in upper jaw and front 

 of mandible mostly enlarged, those of former biserial with inner 

 larger, ilaxillary teeth and those on mandible laterally minute 

 and crowded or numerous. No palatine teeth. Interorbital space 

 convex. Gill-opening forward nearly opposite anterior margin of 

 orbit. Rakers iv, 2 + 7, lanceolate, robust and almost equal orbit. 

 Filaments about f of orbit. Tubes of lateral line simple. A^ent close 

 in front of anal. Color in alcohol brownish, greenish evidently copper 

 stain. A broad brassy shade from gill-opening above to caudal. 

 Fins all brownish without markings. Iris brownish. Length Si 

 inches (caudal damaged). Type. 



The other example shows: Head 3^; depth 2^; D. ii, 9; A. iv, 39, 

 i; scales about 96 in lateral line to base of caudal, and about 5 more 




1906. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



455 



on latter; snout 2i in head; eye 4J; maxillary IJ; interorbital space 

 2j9y ; pectoral If ; ventral If ; least depth of caudal peduncle 3f . 



W~-^ 



Fig. 44. — Cyrlocharax liina'squatyiis (Cope). 



In this specimen the pectoral reaches first third of length of ven- 

 tral, which latter reaches anal, and the humeral and caudal blotches 

 are more distinct. Length 5^ inches (caudal damaged). 



Subgenus RCEBOIDES Gunther. 

 Eoeboides myersii (Gill). Fig. 45. 



Rwboides myersii Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872). p. 265. 



Ambviacu River. John Hauxwell. Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. 



Phila"., XVII, 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 686. Peruvian Amazon. 

 Prof. J. Orton. 



Width of head 2,^ in its length ; interorbital space Z\. Body deeply 

 compressed, and edges of back and caudal peduncle rounded. Pre- 

 ventral region rather broadly flattened. Postventral region with a 

 median low keel. Head well compressed. Snout much broader than 

 long, and surface convex. Each jaw with 4 external short conic 

 denticles, outer pair of upper on each side with 1 or 2 smaller denticles 

 between. Teeth of upper jaw short, subequal, conic and more or less 

 irregularly biserial, with inner series widely separated. Teeth of 

 mandible small, canines 4, and median pair close together at sym- 




456 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct. 



physis. Greater portion of maxillary basally with a jagged denticulate 

 edge. Tongue fleshy, triangular and little free in front. Inter- 

 orbital space convex. Gill-opening fomard opposite anterior margin 

 of eye. Rakers 9 -I- 15, lanceolate, a little longer than filaments or 

 f of eye. Scales striate. Tubes of lateral line simple. Vent close in 

 front of anal. Color in alcohol olivaceous-brown, greenish tint prob- 

 ably due to copper in preservative, and back a little darker. Fins 

 all brownish, bases of pectoral, ventral and caudal with a little dusky 



4- .:fyC":ii>i 



/ 



Fig. 45. — Rcsboides myersii (Gill). 



tint. A dusky humeral blotch above lateral line about size of orbit, 

 and also one of same shade on base of caudal, though both rather 

 indistinct. Iris dusky-reddish. Length 6f inches (caudal damaged). 

 Three from the Peruvian Amazon. 



The 3 examples from the Ambyiacu show: Head 3^ to 3f ; depth 2f 

 to 2f ; D. II, 9, rarely ii, 8; A. iv, 47, i to 52, i, frequently 49, i; scales 

 about 84 to 86 in lateral line to base of caudal; snout 3i to 4 in head ; 

 ej'e S^ to 3f ; maxillary If to 1|; interorbital 3^ to 3|; pectoral li 

 to H; ventral If to If ; total length of body (caudals mostly damaged) 

 3| to 62 inches. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



CYNOCHARAX subgen. nov. 

 Type Anacyrttis affinis Gunther. 



457 



For those species with well-developed canines in the upper jaw. 

 (h'uwj, dog: x'^P''S> Charax.) 



Koeboides affinis (Gunther). Fig. 46. 



Eopboides ruhrivertex Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 265. 

 Type, No. 8,190, A. N. S. P. Between the mouth of the Peruvian 

 Amazon or Ucayale river. Robert Perkins. Cope, I.e., p. 292. 



Width of head 2 in its length ; interorbital space 3. Body compressed 

 strongly and edges of back rounded. Preventral region rather broad 

 and flattened. Postventral region with a slight median keel or some- 

 what trenchant. Head well compressed. Snout broadly convex, 



Fig. 46. — Rceboides affinis (Gunther). 



much broader tlian deep. Upper jaw with 6 e.xternal teeth, and 1 

 on outside near base of each maxillaiy. Mandible with 4 external 

 teeth. Upper jaw with 2 series of teeth of about equal size, posterior 

 not confluent anteriorly. Mandibular teeth uniserial, with 4 canines, 

 pair at symphysis close together. Maxillary with upper f of its edge 

 finely denticulated. No palatine teeth. Tongue fleshy, triangular 

 and free. Interorbital space convex. Gill-opening forward about 




458 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



opposite posterior nostril. Rakers 10 + 14, lanceolate, and longest 

 about f of orbit or about equal to longest filaments. Scales all more or 

 less striate. Tubes in lateral line simple. Color in alcohol brown, 

 lower surface little paler, and body everywhere more or less silvered. 

 Fins all pale brown, without markings, and a brownish blotch on 

 anterior anal rays. An indistinct or grayish blotch above and on 

 lateral line, well behind shoulder, alwut size of orbit, and another at 

 base of caudal. A brassy shade from gill-opening above broadly 

 back over side. Iris reddish-brown, pale below. Length 5^ inches 

 (caudal damaged). Type of Rwboidcs rubrivertex Cope. 



Roeboides bicornis Cope. Fig. 47. 



Proc. Araer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70 (August 19, 1870), p. 564, 

 fig. (teeth). Type, No. 8,151, A. N. S. P. Pebas, Eastern Equador. 

 John Hauxwell. 



Width of head 3f in its length; interorbital space 3f. Body strongly 



compressed. Head well compressed. Snout about as broad as long. 



External denticles well developed, 2 median large and directed for- 



V.-- 



Fig. 47. — Rwboicles bicornis Cope. 



wards, 2 lateral subequal on upper jaw, and 4 mandibulars equall.y 

 placed. On each side of upper jaw a well-developed canine, and 2 

 series of smaller similar teeth between or in front, other teeth all 

 smaller and uniserial. Small teeth in mandible with 4 canines, an- 

 teriorly median pair close or at symphysis. Maxillary with a number 

 of large denticles of rather irregular size. Tongue long, slender and 




1906.1 



r^ATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



459 



little free. Interorbital space convex, and moderately broad. Gill- 

 opening forward to front rim of orbit. Rakers 6 + 9, slender, pointed, 

 a little shorter than longest filameuts which are nearly as long as orbit. 

 Tubes in lateral line simple. Color in alcohol faded brownish, lower 

 surface paler, and everj-where with more or less silvered reflections. 

 Fins pale or nearly imiform brownish. Length 2^ inches (caudal 

 damaged). Tj^pe. 



Cynopotamus gulo Cope. Fig. 48. 



Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1S69-70 (August 19, 1S70), p. .565. 

 Cot}-pes, Nos. 8,0.53 (tj-pe) to 8,055, A. N. S. P. Pebas, Eastern Peru. 

 John Hauxwell. 



Width of head 3 J in its length ; interorbital space 4. Body strongly 

 compressed. Head strongly compressed. Snout long as broad. 

 Teeth in upper jaw uniserial, 4 enlarged canines, and several a little 

 smaller laterally as median pair of former are close together. About 10 

 canines in mandible, 5 on each side anteriorlj^, and subequally large. 



-■=^3?'y 



Fig. 48. — Cynopotamus giilo Cope. 



Other teeth all small like those on maxillary, though forming 2 series 

 anteriorly. Tongue small, fieshy, rounded in front and little free. 

 Interorbital space broad and httle convex. GOl-opening forward 

 about front margin of pupil. Rakers iv, 2 + 7, ii, lanceolate, and 

 much longer than filaments or f of orbit. Lateral Une of simple tubes. 

 Color in alcohol brownish. A more or less narrow leaden streak from 

 shoulder to base of caudal, with a slightly dusky blotch at hiuneral 

 region and one at base of caudal. Abdomen sho-ning tlrrough pale 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



brownish. Head more or less silvered. Fins uniform dark bro^^-nish. 

 Iris dark brownish. Length 3y\ inches (caudal damaged). Type. 



Two larger examples in good preservation show: Head 3f and 3^; 

 depth 3i and 3; D. ii, 9; A. v, 41, i and v, 39, i; P. i. 15 and i. 14; 

 V. II, 7; scales about 76 or 77 in lateral Une to base of caudal, and about 

 5 or 6 more on latter; about 16 scales obliquely back from origin of 

 dorsal to lateral line ; about 20 scales between origin of anal and lateral 

 line; about 46 or 47 scales before dorsal; 8 scales obliquely back from 

 origin of adipose dorsal; width of head 2f and 2^ in its length; depth 

 of head 14 and If over posterior margin of orbit; snout 3; eye 4j and 

 4f ; maxillary 1^ and li; mandible ly and 1^; interorbital space 3; 

 base of dorsal 2f and 2^; least depth of caudal peduncle 3| and 3|; 

 total length of specimens (caudal damaged) 6J and 7^ inches respec- 

 tively. Pebas, Peru. John Hauxm'ell. 



This species wUl fall within my subgenus Eucynopotamus, with the 

 scales a little large, about 75 in the lateral line. 



Acestrorhamphus hepsetus (Cuvier). 



Xiphorharnphiis hepsetus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Plula.. XXXIII, 

 1894 (Januarj' 5), p. So. Brazilian pro\-ince of Rio Grande do Sul. H. 

 H. Smith. 



Head 3i; depth ^ to 3f ; D. ii, 9; A. v, 24, i to v, 26. i; scales about 

 76 in lateral line to base of caudal and several more on latter; snout 

 2| to 3^ in head; eye 4^ to 5J; maxillary If to If; interorbital space 

 5; pectoral IJ to 11; ventral 1| to 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 3 J 

 to 4; gill-rakers v or vi, 2 or 3 + 8 or 9, and ii to iv. Two examples. 



SPHYRiENOCHAR.\X subgen. nov. 

 Type Xiphorhamphus ahhrevialus Cope. 



Body rather deep, 3| to 4. 

 {Sv'jparya, Sphvrsena; z'^P"^^ Charax.) 

 Aoestrorhynohus braohyoephalus (Cope). 



Xiphorhamphus brachycephalus Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., 

 XXXIII, 1894 (January 5), p. 84, PI. 4, fig. 1. Cot.\-pes, Nos. 21.728 

 (type) and 21,917, A. N. S. P. Brazilian pro\'ince of Rio Grande do 

 Siil. H. H. Smith. 



Width of head 2 in its length ; interorbital space 4. Body compressed 

 and edges all more or less rounded. Head compressed. Snout con- 

 vex and a little broader than long. Teeth on palatines uniserial, 

 little smaller than those along maxillary and side of mandible where 

 compressed. Canines 4 in front of each jaw, at symphysis, not close. 

 Tongue triangularly pointed and free. Interorbital space a little 

 convex. Gill-opening forward opposite posterior nostril. Rakers 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



461 



IV, 6 + 11, IV, pointed, longest | of filaments which are f of orbit. 

 Each scale vnth several fine strise. Color in alcohol brownish, sides 

 brassy or silvered. Back a little darker than other portions. Fins all 

 brownish, dorsal and caudal a little darker. A large blackish blotch, 

 a little larger than iris, at base of caudal and extending out on middle 

 caudal rays. An indistinct grayish humeral blotch. Iris brownish, a 

 little darker above. Length 6| inches (caudal damageil). Type. 



Other example shows: Head 3J; depth 3J; D. ii, 9; A. iv, 25, i; 

 scales about 55 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 4 more on latter ; 

 snout 3*; eye 4; maxillary If; interorbital space 4^. 



Aoestrorhynohus abbreviatus (Cope). Fig. 49. 



Xiphorhamphus abbreviatus Cope, Proc Amer. Philos, Soc. Phila., XVII, 

 1S77-78 (May 17. 1878), p. 687. 001^1)68, Nos. 21,.532 (type), 21,10.5 to 

 21,107, and 21,982 and 21,983, A. N. S. P. Peru\-ian Amazon. Prof. J. 

 Orton. 



Width of head 2J in its length; interorliital space 3^. Body well 

 compressed, and edges of body rounded except thorax, which has a 



Fig. 49. — Acestrorkynrhus abbreinatus (Cope). 



large median keel. Postdorsal region, and both upper and lower 

 surfaces of caudal peduncle, somewhat flattened and level. Head 

 compressed. Snout a trifle longer than wide. Teeth in jaws rather 

 irregular canines, about 6 well developed in upper and S in lower. 

 Other teeth small, those on rami of mandible posteriorly fine, and 

 31 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



similar to those extending whole length of bone. A long series of 

 still finer palatine teeth. Interorbital space broad and a trifle convex. 

 Gill-opening forward opposite anterior nostril. Rakers 8 + 10 

 rudimentary denticles. Filaments f of orbit. Tubes in lateral line 

 simple. Vent shortly before anal fin. Color in alcohol brownish- 

 brassy, back a little darker than rest of body and with some metallic 

 greenish tints. Fins all pale greenish-brown, each one more or less 

 grayish or pale dusky marginally. Base of caudal with a blackish 

 blotch a little less than orbit. Adipose fin brownish. Iris mostly 

 dark brownish, reddish below. Length S| inches (caudal damaged). 

 Type. 



The others show: Head 3 to 3|; depth 3* to 4; D. ii, 9; A. v, 20, i to 

 V, 24, 1 ; scales about 80 to 95 in lateral line to base of cauilal, and about 

 5 more on latter; snout 3 in head; eye 4 J to 5h; maxillary U to If; 

 interorbital space 3^ to 3f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 4 J to 4j; 

 length of body 5f to 8^ inches. 



Subgenus ACESTRORHYNCHUS Eigenmann. 



Body elongate, depth 6 or 7. 



Aoestrorhynolius faloirostris CCuvier). 



Xiphorhamphus falcirostris Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 

 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 688. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Head 3^ to 3^; D. ii, 9; A. v, 21, i; width of head 3f to 3f in its 

 length; snout 2\ to 2f ; eye 4f to 5^; maxillary ly to 1^; interorbital 

 space 3| to 5; least depth of caudal peduncle 5; length (caudals dam- 

 aged) 6i to 11 inches. Two examples from the collections of 1873 

 and 1877. 



Aoestrorhynolius heterolepis (Cope). Fig. 50. 



Xiphorhamphus heterolepis Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 

 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 687. Cotype.s, Nos. 21,246 (type) to 21,248. 

 A. N. S. P. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Width of head 3^ in its length; interorbital space 3^. Body com- 

 pressed, edges rounded and upper and lower surfaces of caudal peduncle 

 bevelled. Chest with a median keel. Head well compressed. Snout 

 convex above-, and its witlth If in its length. Teeth along edges of 

 jaws uniserial above, 2 canines at tip in front, midway in length of 

 snout a large canine on each side a little inside, and 3 more between 

 it and front of eye becoming larger as they progress back. In man- 

 dible 4 canines at symphysis, all well separated, and second pair 

 largest. Just behind second pair 1 or 2 small teeth, then 3 enlarged 

 canines middle of which is largest, and then follows a single series of 

 small teeth like those along edge of maxillary. A single long series 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



463 



of small pointed palatine teeth. Tongue conic, elongate and free. 

 Interorbital space a little convex. Gill-opening foru^ard opposite 

 front margin of eye. Rakers absent, edge of first branchial arch 

 trenchant and finely asperous, with about 21 + 37 finely asperous 

 lamincE externally. Filaments ^ of eye. Tubes in lateral hne at 

 least bifurcate. Color in alcohol brownish, greenish tints evidently 

 due to copper, and with brassy reflections. Fins unmarked, except 



Fig. .50. — Acestrorhynchus heterolepis (Cope). 



base of caudal, which has a black spot medianly about size of pupil. 

 Iris brown. Length 14^ inches (caudal damaged). Type. 



The other examples show: Head 3^ to 3i; depth 5 to 6; D. ii, 9; 

 A. V, 23 or 24, i ; scales about 120 to 130 in lateral line to base of caudal; 

 snout 1^ to 2| in head; ej^e 5*^ to 5^; interorbital space 4i to 5*; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 5A to 5f ; length (caudal damaged) 7f to 

 lOf inches. 



Xipliostoma maoulatnm Valenciennes. 



Xiphostoma toedo Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 267, PI. 

 13, fig. 2. Cotypes, Nos. 7,9.58 (t>-pe) and 7,959, A. N. S. P. .\mbyiacu 



River. John Hauxwell. Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., 



XVII, 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 688. Perm-ian Amazon. Prof. J. 

 Orton 



Width of head 4f in its length; interorbital space 5^. Body well 

 compressed and edges rounded. Head broad and flattened, sides be- 

 coming constricted below. Snout depressed above, a little flattened. 

 Teeth in jaws uniform, uniserial and recurved. A rather broad finely 

 asperous tract on each palatine. Tongue triangular and not free. 

 Interorbital space broad and flat. Most osseous areas on head rugosely 

 striate. Gill-opening forsvard opposite anterior margin of orbit. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Rakers v, 2 + 7, vi, lanceolate, and mnch shorter than filaments, 

 which are about half of e_ye. Color in alcohol brownish, color of back 

 well separated from paler color of lower surface, and without markings. 

 Tip of snout brownish. Fins all pale brownish, bases of caudal lobes 

 «ith pale brownish bars. Faded marks or traces of bars, as indicated 

 by Cope, are e\4dent. Ii-is brassy. Length 7f inches (caudal dam- 

 aged). Type. 



The others show: Head 2} to 2i; depth 6i to 8; D. ii, 8; A. iii, 8, i; 

 scales 77 to 80 in lateral hue to base of caudal, and several more on 

 latter ; snout If to If in head ; eye 8^ to 9| ; interorbital space 4J to 

 5|; least depth of caudal peduncle 4f to 6; length 7|| to 12 J inches 

 (caudal damaged). 



BELONOCHAEAX gen. nov. 

 Tj-pe Belonocharax beani sp. nov. 



Related to Boulengerella Eigenmann, but differing in the larger scales, 

 which are about 50, while in the latter they are about 88. Lateral 

 line incomplete. 



(Ih/.oyyj, Belone, the Old World Gar; zapa^, Charax.) 



Belonocharax beani sp. nov. Fig. 51. 



Head 2i; depth 7; D. ii, 8; A. in, 8, i; P. i, 18; V. i, 7; scales in 

 lateral line, or those with tubes, 27, and count continued to base of 

 caudal 18, also 5 more on latter; 5 scales obliquely forward from 

 origin of dorsal to lateral line; 8 scales obliquely back from origin of 

 adipose fin to lower surface of caudal peduncle; 5 scales obUquely for- 

 ward from origin of ventral to lateral line; 35 scales before dorsal; 

 width of head 3f in its length; depth of head at posterior edge of pre- 

 opercle 2j-; snout 2|-; eye 8|; tip of snout to posterior extremity of 

 maxillarj' If; mandible If; interorbital space 5; second dorsal ray 2^; 

 third anal ray 3; least depth of caudal peduncle 4|; pectoral 2f ; ventral 



Body long, rather slender, well compressed, trunk of more or less 

 even depth, and middle of back evidently levelled but without any 

 distinct keels on each side above. Lower edges of body evidently 

 rounded. Postdorsal, postadipose dorsal and postanal edges of body 

 flattened a trifle, and edge on each side a rather obsolete keel. Caudal 

 peduncle well compressed, its length about f its least depth. 



Head long, attenuate, or in a long triangle, well compressed, flattened 

 or rather broadened above, and sides becoming constricted somewhat 

 below. Jaws long, tapering, robust, rather depressed, upper project- 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



465 



ing, flattened towards tip, pyramidal, and mandible rather broader with 

 convex siu-face or of swollen appearance. Profile of snout a little 

 convex at first, then merging into nearly straight upper profile of 

 head. Profile of mandible at first a little concave, then a little convex. 

 Eye a little posterior in head, high, and a trifle longer than deep. 

 Mouth forming a slight arch. Lips not evident except as a narrow 

 Cutaneous fold along margin of mandible. Maxillarj^ narrowly exposed 

 obhque, and extending distal extremitj' posteriorly till about opposite 

 posterior margin of pupil. Edge of maxillary with fine teeth. Tip of 

 upper jaw a hard or tough point. Teeth in jaws uniserial, rather 

 small, of more or less equal size, compressed or cultrate, crowded one 

 after the other and all directed backwards. Wlien jaws close upper 

 teeth slip over sides of mandibular. In front of upper jaw a A- 

 shaped patch of conic teeth progressing in size to outermost, which is 



■ "^^^^jpSC™.-^:^ 



■^Vif' 



Fig. 51. — Belonocharax beani Fowler. 



thus canine-like. There are also several other smaller conic teeth 

 still exterior to latter. No teeth at symphysis of mandible. On roof 

 of mouth near front of upper jaw on each side, a short series of several 

 rather irregular small denticles. Buccal membranes broad, reaching 

 first f in length of jaws. Tongue flattened, free, roimded as viewed 

 from above, and its tip falling about last f in length of snout. Bones 

 of head all more or less fuiely rugose-striate. Opercular flap rather 

 broad. 



Gill-opening extending forward about opposite anterior margin of 

 pupil. Gill-rakers about 8 -t- 11 short denticles, longest barely more 

 than half of pupil. Filaments about % of orbit. Isthmus narrow, 

 slender, edge rounded. Bones of shoulder-girdle, where exposed, with 

 slight strise. 



Scales large, of more or less uniform size, each one striate and 

 ctenoid. Scales on breast and bases of caudal and anal smaller than 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



those on body. "\'entral with a small axillan' scale. Lateral line, 

 incomplete, midwa}^ on side, starting from shoulder, of simple tubes, 

 and ending about 2 scales before origin of dorsal. 



Dorsal inserted well posterior or near last f in head and trunk, and 

 second ray evidentlj' highest, others graduated down. Adipose fin 

 placed in last third of space between origin of dorsal and base of 

 caudal, and its length a little less than eye. Anal inserted behind 

 middle of base of dorsal, or nearer base of caudal than that of ventral, 

 and third ray longest, or others graduated down. Caudal forked, 

 lobes pointed. Pectoral reaching less than half way to ventral. 

 Ventral a little more than half way to anal, ^'ent close in front of 

 anal. 



Color in alcohol dull or pale brown, back a deeper .shade than lower 

 surface. About 8 longitudinal darker streaks of brownish than general 

 body-color, those below paler. Head brown, lower surface paler. 

 Fins pale brown, dorsal and caudal perhaps a trifle darker. Base of 

 upper caudal lobe with its lower lobe marked with a jet-black blotch 

 a little larger than pupil. Iris pale brownish. 



Length about 11 inches (caudal damaged). 



Type, No. 16,642, A. N. S. P. Truando, Rio Atrato basin in the 

 Isthmus of Darien, Colombia. From the Smithsonian Institution 

 (No. 1,658). 



I am indebted to Jlr. Barton A. Bean for the data concerning this 

 fish. According to him it approaches Xiphostoma hujeta Valenciennes, 

 a species very imperfecth' described though, which it seems to resemble 

 so far as the original account permits. Provisionally at least it had 

 best be considered distinct. 



(Named for Mr. Barton A. Bean, Assistant Cm-ator of Fishes, 

 United States National ^luseiun.) 



Hydrolyous peotoralis (Gunther). 



Hydrolycus pectoralis Cope, Proc. Amer. Plulos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1877-78 

 (May 17, 1S7S), p. 688. Permian .\mazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Head 4 to 4§ ; depth SJ to 3| ; D. ii, 10 ; A. ii, 45, i usually, sometimes 

 varying to 43 or 46; scales usually 90 in lateral line to base of caudal; 

 snout 3i to 4 J in head, measiu'ed from tip of upper jaw; ej'e, meas- 

 ured vertically, 2 J to 3^; interorbital space 3 J to 4i; total length 5i to 

 8} inches. Six examples from collections of 1873 and 1877. 



Hydrolyous soomberoides (Cuvier). 



Hydrolycus scomberoides Cope, Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (18721, p. 

 292. Between the mouth of the Rio Negro and the Peruvian Amazon or 

 Ucaj'ale River. Robert Perkins. 



Head 4^; depth 3; D. ii, 10; A. ii, 40, i; scales about 112 in lateral 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



467 



line to base of caudal, though pores much fewer; snout 4 in head, 

 measiu-ed from tip of upper jaw; eye 4; maxillary 1}; interorbital space 

 4; least depth of caudal peduncle 3; length 10| inches. 



Rhaphiodon vulpinus Agassiz. 



Raphiodon vulpinus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XXVII, 1877-78 

 (May 17, 1878), p. 688. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Head 4| to 5 ; depth 4f to 5J ; D. ii, 10 ; A. iv, 40 to 42, i ; scales about 



120 in lateral line to base of caudal, and about 8 more on latter ; snout 3f 



to SjSjj- in head; eye i\ to 4i; maxillary 1^^ to 1^; interorbital space 5^ 



to 6; least depth of caudal peduncle 3J to 3yV; length of body (caudal 



damaged) 10 to 12J inches. Two examples in collections of 1873 and 



1877. 



Cyuodon gibbus (Agassiz). 



Raphiodon gibbus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1877-78 

 (May 17, 1878), p. 688. Peru\'ian -Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Head 4f to 4f ; depth 3i to 3f ; D. ii, 10; A. iv, 72, i to ii?, 83?, i; 

 scales 90 to 100 in lateral line to base of caudal; snout 3^ to 4 in head, 

 measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 3^ to 3|; maxillary 1| to 1^; 

 interorbital space 3 J to 3^; least depth of caudal peduncle 3 to 3^; 

 length (caudal damaged) 6 to 6| inches. Two examples in the collec- 

 tion of 1873. 



DISTICHODONTIN^. 

 Distiohodus nidolpliuGunther. Fig. S2. 



Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1896 (February 4), p. 223. Cotype, No. 14,559 

 (type), A. N. S. P. Lake Rudolf, Central .Africa. Dr. A. D. Smith. 



4/ 





Fig. 52, — Distichodus rudolphi Giinther. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Width of head 2\ in its length; interorbital space 4. Body com- 

 pressed with edges all more or less rounded. Head compressed, con- 

 vex ly round or not especially broad above, and sides becoming con- 

 stricted below. Snout Ijroader than long and surface convex. Teeth 

 in jaws rather weak, though well developed, compressed, uniserial 

 and bidentate. Tongue free and rounded as seen above. Interor- 

 bital space rather broad and slightly convex. Gill-opening forward 

 opposite anterior margin of eye. Rakers reduced as minute tuber- 

 cles, and filaments a trifle less than orbit. Lateral line with simple 

 tubes. Vent close in front of anal. Color in alcohol brownish, sides 

 and lower siu'face paler, inclining to whitish and all more or less 

 silvered. Lower surface of head also silvered. A pale or dull slaty 

 humeral blotch about size of pupil. A dull or pale dusky diffuse 

 blotch at base of caudal. Fins all pale brownish, dorsal and caudal 

 a trifle darker, and median rays of latter also pale dusky. Iris pale 

 brassy. Length 2J inches (caudal damaged). Type. 



SERRASALMIN^. 

 Pygooentrus piraya (Cuvier). 



Serrasalmo piraya Cope, Proe. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1S69-70 

 (August 19, 1870), p. 566. Para. De Schulte Buckow. 



Head 2f; depth If ; D. I, ii, 12; A. in, 29, i; abdominal serratiu-es 32 

 to vent; scales about 75 in lateral line to base of caudal and about 8 

 more on latter; about 33 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral 

 line; about 28 scales between origin of anal and lateral line; about 46 

 scales before origin of dorsal; about 13 scales obliquely back from 

 origin of adipose fin to lateral line; width of head 2^ in its length; 

 mandible 2f ; pectoral If; ventral 2J; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 3f ; snout 4^ in head, measured from tip of upper jaw ; eye 3f ; maxillary 

 2^; interorbital space 3. In alcohol more or less uniform brownish, 

 margins of caudal broadly a little darker brownish. Iris brassy, 

 brownish above and below. Length 3^ inches. 



Pygooentrus nattereri Kner. 



Serrasahno nattereri Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 292. 

 Between the mouth of the Rio Negro and the Peruvian Amazon or 

 Ucayale River. Robert Perkins. 



Head 2i to 2$; depth If to Iff; D. I, ii, 14, i to 16, i; A. I, in, 25, i to 

 28, I ; abdominal serratures 25 to 28 ; scales 72 to 86 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal and 5 to 10 more continued out on latter; 34 to 38 

 scales obliquely back from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 30 to 37 scales 

 between origin of anal and lateral line; 15 or 16 scales obliquely back 

 from adipose fin to lateral line; 50 to 54 scales before dorsal; mandible 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



2 J to 2f in head ; pectoral If to 1|; ventral 3 to 3^; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 3f to 4f ; snout 4 to 4^ in head, measured from tip of upper 

 jaw; eye 3f to ok; maxillaiy 2f to 3; interorbital space 2\ to 3^; total 

 length of body (with slightly damaged caudal) 2J to 6J inches. Alto- 

 gether .5 examples, the largest from between the mouth of the Rio 

 Negro and the Peruvian Amazon or Ucayale river. Of the others 2 

 belong to Orton's first collection (1873). The remaining 2 examples 

 are small. They are marked with a number of small round brownish 

 spots, each about the size of the pupil, and producing an effect simi- 

 lar to that seen on some examples of Ephippiis argus. The caudal 

 is margined, witliin the lobes, and shaded basaUy with deep 

 brownish. Peruvian .\mazon. Prof. J. Orton. Coll. 1877. 



Serrasalmus hameralis Valenciennes. 



Serrasalmo humeralis Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 

 292. Between the mouth of the Rio Negro and the Peru\'ian Amazon or 

 Ucayale River. Robert Perkins. 



Head 2i; depth 1| to 1^: D. I, ii, 14, i to 15, i; A. I, in, 29, i to .30, 



i; scales about 75 to 80 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 6 or 7 



more on latter; 32 or 33 scales down from origin of dorsal to lateral 



line; 34 or 35 scales down from lateral line to origin of anal; abdominal 



scutes 30 to 32; mandible 2^ to 2^ in head; pectoral H to If; ventral 



2f to 2J; least depth of caudal peduncle 3J to 3f ; snout 4 in head, 



measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 4 to 4f ; maxillary 2* to 2^; 



interorbital space 3 to 3^; total length of body (caudals damaged) 



4^ to 5i inches. Two examples. 



Serrasalmus maoulatus (Kner). 



Serrasalmo niaculatus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70 

 (August 19, 1870), p. 566. Para. De Sehulte Buekow. 



Head 2|; depth If; D. I, ii, 12; A. I, in, 29, i; scales about 77 in 

 lateral line to base of caudal, and 5 more on latter; about 31 scales 

 between origin of dorsal and lateral line; about 32 between origin of 

 anal and lateral line; abdominal scutes 31; mandible 2 J in head; 

 pectoral If; ventral 2\; least depth of caudal peduncle 3f ; snout 4^ 

 in head, measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 4^; maxillary 2i; inter- 

 orbital space 3|; length of body 3f inches (caudal damaged). 



Serrasalmus aesopns (Cope). Fig. 53. 



Serrasalmo cesopus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 269. 

 TjTDe, No. 7,914, A. N. S. P. From the Maranon, between the mouth of 

 the Rio Negro, Brazil, and the Huallaga, Peru. Robert Perkins. 



Width of head 2yV in its length ; interorbital space 2f in head, meas- 

 ured from tip of upper jaw. Body strongly compressed. Predorsal 

 region, and postdorsal to adipose fin, with slight median ridge. Chest 




470 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Oct., 



convexly rounded. Edges of caudal peduncle above and below convex. 

 Head robust, well compressed. ■ Snout broad with convex surface. 

 Lips fleshy. Teeth large, triangularly cuneate, ^^, and more or less 

 directed backwards. In upper jaw each one with one or more Ijasal 

 cusps, but of mandibulai-s only symphyseal one with an approxi- 

 mated cusp. Mandibular teeth longer than those above, though of 

 vmiform size. Folds of buccal cavit}' thick and fleshy, more 



,4^^^^ 



J^ 



Fig. 53. — Serrasalmus (esoptis (Cope). 



or less papillose and with cutaneous fringe corresponding to 

 teeth. Palatine teeth 5, small and uniserial. Tongue little free, 

 surface papillose. Interorbital space broad and convex. Gill-open- 

 ing forward to front rim of pupil. Rakers 14 + 12, more or less 

 rudimentarj'^, or about 5 or 6 on ceratobranchial a little enlarged, 

 and all much shorter than filaments which are nearly equal to orbit. 

 Tubes a little bifurcate, or decurved usually. Vent close in front of 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



anal and not surrounded by abdominal serratures. Color in alcohol 

 faded brownish, back from level with occiput deeper and without 

 brassy tint of lower surface of body. Body also with more or less 

 silvered or brassy reflections. Caudal with a rather broad pale 

 margin, then submarginally rather broadly deep dusky, otherwise 

 pale. Anal with margin rather broadly brownish and base also a little 

 brown. Other fins all more or less pale. Iris yellowish, brownish 

 above. Length 5| inches. 



Serrasalmus iridopsis (Cope). 



Serrasalmo iridopsis Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1871 (1872), p. 268. 

 PI. 9, fig. 2. TjTJe, No. 7,913, A. N. S. P. Ambj-iacu River, Equador. 

 John Hauxwell. 



Width of head 2^ in its length ; interorbital space 3^, measured from 

 tip of snout. Body compressed. Head well compressed and robust. 

 Snout convex, and its length ^ its width. Teeth well developed in 

 jaws, those on mandible |^g, large. Each palatine with 7 teeth. 

 Tongue rather narrow, rounded in front and free. Interorbital space 

 broad and convex. Bones of head all more or less radiately striate. 

 Gill-opening forward to middle of eye. Rakers iv + v short denticles, 

 much shorter than filaments, which equal greatest exposed opercular 

 width. Color in alcohol brownish, sides silvered. Back with a niuii- 

 ber of rounded maculations, ranging in size up to that of pupil, and 

 fading out on flanks. Fins all pale brownish, dorsal and caudal a 

 trifle more deep in shade marginally. Iris pale brassy. Length 4^ 

 inches (caudal damaged). 



Although Cope states that the abdominal serratures are ' ' forty-one, ' ' 

 his figure would indicate altogether but 31. Still as the type at present 

 shows 32 serrse, it is possible that some of those on the breast may have 

 fallen. 



Serrasalmus immaoulatus (Cope). Fig. 54. 



Serrasalmo immaculatus Cope, Proc. Amer. PWlos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 

 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 692. Cotypes, Nos. 21,503 (type) to 21,505, 

 A. N. S. P. Peruvian Amazon. Prof. J. (Drton. 



Width of head 2^ in its length ; interorbital space 2| in head, meas- 

 ured from tip of upper jaw. Body strongly compressed, and pre- 

 dorsal and postdorsal regions, to adipose fin, with a slight median 

 ridge. Upper and lower surfaces of caudal peduncle a little compressed 

 convexly. Head compressed. Snout broad and surface convex. 

 Teeth ^^- Palatine teeth 7 on each side. Gill-opening forward 

 opposite middle of orbit. Rakers .x + viii rounded scabrous processes 

 and each with a short denticulation. Filaments about equal eye. 

 Color in alcohol brownish, more or less dull and uniform or only with 




472 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



slight silvered reflections, and greenish tints on head and fins evidently 

 due to preservative. Iris a little reddish-brown. Length 7f inches 

 (caudal damaged). 



The others show: Head 2J to 24; depth IJ; D. I, ii, 13, i to 16, i; A. 

 1,111,28, I to 31, i; scales about 67 to 78 in lateral line to base of 



**»aiiSS'^^Xi^<sSi'^^^''*=^- 



Fig. 54. — Serrasatmus immaciilatus (Cope). 



caudal, and 6 to 8 more on latter; mandible If to 2f in head; pectoral 

 If to If; ventral 2f to 3f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 3 J to 3f ; 

 base of dorsal If to 1*; snout 4i to 4J in head, measured from tip 

 of upper jaw; eye 4^ to 5; maxillary 2| to 2J; interorbital space 3 to 

 3^; greatest width of infraorbital rim 2| to 3; length of body (caudal 

 damaged) 6| to 6| inches. Though the dusky posterior caudal margin 

 is evident, the numerous lead-colored spots on the back are not. 



Subgenus COLOSSOMA Eigenmann. 



Anterior and posterior series of teeth in upper jaw close together. 



Colossoma ooulus (Cope). 



Myletes oculus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S71 (1S72), p. 262, Pi. 12, 

 fig. 2. Cotypes, Nos. 7,991 (type) to 8,010, A. N. S. P. Ambyiacu 

 River. Johii Hauxwell. 



Width of head 2 in its length ; interorbital space 2i in head, measured 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



from tip of upper jaw. Body strongly compressed, and edges mostly 

 rounded. Head robust, compressed, and becoming constricted below. 

 Lips thin, cutaneous, and on each side of mandible forming anteriorly 

 a long flattened triangular flap equal to about ^ of orbit. In each 

 side of upper jaw externally 5 teeth, and each with a single cusp at 

 least. Transversely in front of upper jaw 4 bicuspid teeth connect- 

 ing lateral series. Mandible with 4 enlarged teeth transversely in 

 front, pair approximated at symphysis with a large posterior cusp 

 to each one, and 4 small teeth on each ramus graduated down 

 posteriorly. Tongue a little long, Interorbital space broad and con- 

 vex. Opercle with fine concentric stria;. Gill-opening forward to 

 front rim of orbit. Rakers 20 -I- 24, slender, and longest equals pupil. 

 Longest filaments | of orbit. Tubes of lateral line simple. Vent 

 enclosed in serrse close in front of anal. Color in alcohol pale brown- 

 ish and sides more or less silvered. Fins all pale brownish, anal and 

 median caudal rays a trifle deeper. Sides of body with vertical 

 brownish streaks, and one about midway on side close behind lateral 

 line forming an ocellus. Iris slaty-white. Length 2J inches (caudal 

 damaged). Type. 



The others show: Head 2^ to 2|-; depth 14 to 1|; D. in, 12, i to 15, i, 

 usually 14, i, sometimes 13, i, occasionally 12, i, and rarely 15, i; A. in 

 or IV, 20, I to 23, i, usually 21, i or 22, i and only rarely 20, i or 23, i; 

 abdominal serratm-es 44 to 53 ; about 60 to 72 scales in lateral line to 

 base of caudal; snout 3f to 4 in head, measured from tip of upper 

 jaw; eye 3 to 3h; interorbital space 2| to 2^; pectoral If to 2\; ventral 

 1| to 2^; total length of body 1^ to 2f inches. 



WAITEINA subgen. nov. ' 



Type Myletes nigripinnis Cope. 



Anterior and posterior series of teeth well separated anteriorly in 

 upper jaw. 



(Named for Dr. Edgar R. Waite, formerly of the Museimi at Sydney, 

 author of many contributions to the Ichthyology of Australia.) 



Colossoma nigripinnis (Cope). Fig. 55. 



Myletes nigripinnis Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Pliila., 1877-78 (May 17, 

 1878), p. 693. T\-pe, No. 21,124, A. N. S. P. Peruvian Amazon. Nauta. 

 Prof. J. Orton. 



Width of head 2 in its length ; interorbital space 2^ in head, measured 

 from tip of upper jaw. Body well compressed. Predorsal region 

 trenchant and edges of body otherwise mostly rounded. Head well 

 compressed, becoming constricted below. Snout broad and convex 




474 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



on surface. Teeth large in mandible, those anteriorly forming trans- 

 verse series of 4 largest and other 5 on each side of mandible graduated 

 down posteriorly. Anterior mandibular teeth with cutting edges, and 

 each one at symphysis with a large cusp. In upper jaw 5 teeth in 

 each external series approximated with 4 transverse annectant ones, 

 which latter together with last 3 externals, are bicuspid. Tongue 

 thick and not free. Lips a little fleshy. Interorbital space broadly 



Fig. 55. — Colossoma nigripinnis (Cope). 



convex. Gill-opening forward to front edge of eye. Rakers 39 + 39, 

 slender, about ^ of orbit. Filaments equal orbit. Tubes in lateral 

 line simple. Color in alcohol olivaceous-brown, greenish most 

 likely due to preservative, and lower regions but little paler. 

 Trunk with many blackish or dusky blotches as large as or a 

 little larger than pupil, those below smallest. Membrane of fins 

 more or less dusky-brown, dorsal paler, and also bases of caudal, 

 pectoral and ventral pale. Lips dusky or brownish. Iris yellowish. 

 Length 5J inches (caudal damaged). 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



Cope's statement, that ' ' the two posterior mandibulars are in con- 

 tact with the median pair of the anterior series, and are separated by 

 a narrow interspace from each other," evidently refers to the teeth 

 of the upper jaw. 



BEGANINA gen. nov. 

 Tj-pe Myletes bidens Agassiz. 



Body rather elongate, not entirely orbicular, or not as deep as long. 

 Abdominal profile moderately convex, not pendant. Abdominal 

 serratures rather numerous, 56. Squamous area on base of anal fin 

 rather low and sharply defined from rest of fin. Adipose fin rather 

 free, not especially enlarged or elongated. No external free short 

 cultrate predorsal spine. 



(Named for Dr. C. Tate Regan, of the British iluseum of Natiu'al 

 History, author of many excellent contributions to Ichthyolog3^) 



Heganina bidens (Agassiz). 



Myletes biilens Cope, Proc. .\cad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 291. 

 Between the mouth of the Rio Xe.gro and the Peru^^an .Amazon or Ucay- 



ale River. Robert Perkins. Cope. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., 



XVII, 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 694. Peru\-ian Amazon. Prof. J. 

 Orton. 



Head 3 ; depth If ; D. v, 14 ; A. iii, 23, i ; abdominal serratures 51 + 5 ; 

 scales about 85 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 5 more on latter; 

 35 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral line; about 40 scales 

 between vent and lateral line, and same number between root 

 of ventral and lateral line; 46 scales before dorsal; snout 3| 

 in head, measiu-ed from tip of upper jaw; eye 4^; mandible 2J; 

 interorbital space 2J; pectoral 1^; ventral 1^; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 2|. Gill-rakers 19 + 18, i, lanceolate, and about ^ of longest 

 filaments, which are about equal to orbit. Color in alcohol brownish, 

 belly paler, and fins all more or less brownish, becoming darker margin- 

 ally. Anal with a longitudinal median brown band, anterior radii of 

 fin pale or whitish. Opercle with a brownish blotch. Iris dull yellow- 

 ish. Length 9 inches. Between the mouth of the Rio Negro and the 

 Peru-\aan Amazon. Robert Perkins. 



This example agrees largely with Agassiz' figiu-e. However, the 

 scales on the base of the anal fin are not indicated as sharply demar- 

 cated from the rest of the same, so that in width this squamous area is 

 but a little broader anteriorly. 



Kylossoma albiscopas (Cope). 



Myletes alhlscopus Cope, Proc. .\cad. Xat. Sci. PhQa., 1871 (1872), p. 267, 

 PI. 12, fig. 1. Cotypes, Nos. 8,014 to 8,021 (t>'pe), A. X. S. P. .Jimb>daeu 



River. John Hauxwell. Cope, I.e.. p. 292. Between the mouth of 



the Rio Xegro and the Perux'ian .Amazon. Robert Perkins. 



Width of head 2 in its length ; interorbital space 2^ in head , measured 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



from tip of upper jaw. Body strongly compressed, edges rounded. 

 Head robust. Snout broad and convex. Lips without triangular 

 cutaneous corners, though broad. Upper teeth 5 in each external 

 series, and with a transverse connecting series of 4. Mandibular 

 teeth larger, 8 in number, 4 median greatly enlarged and pair at 

 symphysis each with a large external cusp. All teeth with a cutting 

 edge, and some, like transverse series above, bicuspid. Tongue not 

 free, broad and rounded in front. Interorbital space broad and con- 

 vex. Gill-opening forward opposite front of eye. Rakers 12 -t- IS, 

 lanceolate and equal pupil. Filaments a trifle less tlian orbit. Tubes 

 in lateral line simple. Color in alcohol dull or pale brassj^-brown, 

 back a little darker than lower surface and eveiywhere with more or 

 less brassy reflections. Fins all pale or uniform brownish. Iris dull or 

 pale orange. Length 6 inches. Type. 



The others show: Head 2f to 3^; depth IJ to 1^; D. iii, 13, i to 16, i, 

 usually 14, i or 15, i; A. in or iv, 31, i to 36, i; scales 70 to 78 in lateral 

 line to base of caudal, and 3 to 9 more on latter; serratures 41 to 47 -I- 

 4 to 8 on abdomen; snout 34 to 4 in head; eye 2| to 4; interorbital 

 space 2 J to 2J; pectoral 1^ to If; ventral 2 to 2J; total length of body 

 2|f to SJ inches, with caudals mostly damaged. The opercular blotch 

 at present is onl}^ a little brownish in most cases. 



STARKSINA gen. nov. 

 Tjrpe Myletes herniarius Cope. 



Body nearly as deep as long. Profile of belly well rounded convexly 

 and pendant. Abdominal serratures rather few, 41. Posterior series 

 of teeth in upper jaw separated from anterior by an interspace. Anal 

 and caudal more or less covered with small scales passing out from 

 body without special demarcation. Adipose fin small and free. No 

 external free short cultrate predorsal spine. 



(Dedicated to Mr. Edwin C. Starks, of the Leland Stanford Junior 

 University, California, well known for his contributions to the 

 osteology of fishes.) 



Starksina herniarius (Cope). Fig. 56. 



Mi/htes kerniarius Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S71 (1872), p. 268, PI. 

 12, fig. 3. Cot>T)es, Nos. 7,990 and 8,025 (type), A. N. S. P. Ambyiacu 



River. John HauxweU. Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., 



X\^I, 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 693. Pe^u^^an Amazon. Prof. J. 

 Orton. 



Width of head If in its length; interorbital space 2^ in head, meas- 

 ured from tip of upper jaw. Edges of body more or less trenchant. 

 Head well compressed, becoming a little restricted below. Snout 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



477 



broad and convex. Lips thin. Teeth in jaws heavy, robust, and all 

 more or less smaller and of subequal size in upper jaw. In latter 

 arranged in an external approximated series of 5 on each side, and 

 each innth a cusp at least, those most external with 3. Transversely 

 4 teeth connecting outer series, and tip of each with as many as 4 



Fig. 56. — Starksina herniarius (Cope). 



cusps in most cases. Mandibular teeth arranged transversely across 

 front of mandible, 3 on each side, with cutting edges, each with 1 

 cusp at least and each symphyseal with a large conic internal cusp. 

 External mandibular teeth small and inconspicuous, and posterior 

 dentary edges hard and rather sharp. Tongue a little elongate and 

 not free. Interorbital space broad and convex. Gill-opening for- 

 32 




478 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct. 



ward nearly opposite front rim of eye. Rakers 12 + 12, lanceolate, 

 and longest 3 in eye. Filaments IJ in eye. Tubes in lateral line 

 simple. Vent close in front of anal, without serrte. Color in alcohol 

 plain dull brassy-brown, and back more or less dull plumbeous-brown. 

 Fins uniformly colored pale brown. Iris deep brown. Length 4J 

 inches (caudal damaged). Cotype. 



SEALEINA gen. nov. 

 Type Myletes Uppincottianus Cope. 

 Body nearly orbicular. Abdominal profile moderately and evenly 

 convex, not pendant. Abdominal serratures rather few, 42. Pos- 



Fig. 57. — Sealeina Uppincottianus (Cope). 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



terior series of teeth in upper jaw not separated from anterior by an 

 interspace. Squamous area on base of anal rather low and well 

 defined from marginal part of fin. Adipose fin large, long, not free. 

 A small external short free cultrate predorsal spine. 



(Named for Mr. Alvin Seale, formerly of the Bishop Museiun at 

 Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands, the first to offer a complete account of 

 the Ichthyologj'- of Guam.) 



Sealeina lippincottiauus (Cope). Fig. 57- 



Myletes lippincottiantis Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soe. Phila., XI, 1869-70 

 (August 19, 1870), p. 561, fig. (teeth). CotjTie, \o. 8.024, A. X. S. P. 

 Para, Brazil. De Schulte Buckow. — ^— Cope, I.e., p. 566 (tj'pe). 



Width of head 1* in its length ; interorbital space 2| in head, measured 

 from tip of upper jaw. Edges of body aU more or less rounded. 

 Head compressed, becoming a little constricted below. Snout broad 

 and convex. Mouth broadly transverse. Tongue elongate, Uttle 

 free. Interorbital space broadly convex. GiU-opening forward to 

 posterior nostril. Rakers about 10 + 15, lanceolate, about f of pupil. 

 Filaments about f of eye. Tubes in lateral Une simple. Color in 

 alcohol pale brassy-brownish, back darker or more brownish from 

 level with upper edge of giU-opening. Fins all more or less plain pale 

 brownish, and without markings. Iris brassj-. Length 3J inches 

 (caudal lobes a Uttle damaged). Cotype. 



I restrict the specimen described above as one of Cope's cotypes, as 

 it is possible his description is based on more than one example. The 

 statements that there are 32 abdominal serratures and that the adipose 

 fin is f the length of the rayed dorsal do not agree with my example. 



Metynnis luna Cope. Fig. 58. 



Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1877-78 (Ma)- 17, 1878), p. 692. 

 Type, Xo. 21,443, A. N. S. P. Peru\'ian Amazon. Prof. J. Orton. 



Width of head 2|- in its length ; interorbital space 2 J. Bodj- greatly 

 compressed. Snout broad and wdth surface convex. Lips thin. 

 Teeth rather small, above with both series close together, 5 on each 

 side externally and 4 armectant transversely. In mandible 4 on each 

 side, median 4 largest, and in turn middle pair each ■^•ith a large pos- 

 terior cusp. Each tooth with at least a median point, those of man- 

 dible also with cutting edge, and inner series of upper jaw with 2 cusps 

 to each tooth. Tongue not free, thick. Interorbital space broad and 

 convex. Gill-opening forward to front margin of pupil. Rakers 

 26 + 26?, slender, about ^ of eye, and filaments about | of latter. 

 Some of tubes in lateral line simple. Color in alcohol brownish, back 

 somewhat dark and plumbeous, and all of lower regions brassy and 




480 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



silvered. Fins uniform dull brownish. Iris reddish-brown. Length 

 2| inches (caudal damaged). Type. 



Fig. 58. — Metynnis hina Cope 



Cope's statement that "the head enters the latter [i.e., length of 

 body without caudal] three and two-tenth times" is incorrect, as I 

 find it about 2f . 



Stethaprion erythrops Cope. Fig. 59. 



Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70 (August 19, 1870), p. 562, fig. 

 (2). Type, No. 8,031, A. N. S. P. Pebas. John Hau.xwell. 



Width of head Iff in its length ; interorbital space 2 j in head, meas- 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



481 



ured from tip of upper jaw. Body greatly compressed and edges, 

 except rounded upper and lower surfaces of caudal peduncle, with a 

 slight median ridge. Head a little robust, compressed, and becom- 

 ing a little constricted below. Snout broadly convex. No palatine 

 teeth, others as in Astyanax. Tongue a little long, not free. Inter- 



Fig. 59. — Stelhaprion erythrops Cope. 



orbital space broad and convex. Gill-opening forward nearly opposite 

 front of eye. Rakers 13 + 14, lanceolate, and a little less than pupil. 

 Filaments 2 in eye. Tubes in lateral line simple. Vent close in front 

 of anal. Color in alcohol pale brownish, back a little darker, and body 

 more or less with brassy-silvery reflections. A dull leaden and pale 

 streak along posterior or straight portion of lateral line. Fins all dull 




482 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



brownish. Side of head silvered. Iris deep reddish-dusky. Length 

 3i% inches (caudal damaged). 



Owing to Cope's imperfect figure I have substituted the accompany- 

 ing one, made from the type. 



Stethapriou chrysenm Cope. Fig. 60. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871 (1872), p. 261. Type, No. 8,030, A. N. 



S. P. Anibyiacu River. John Hauxwell. Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. 



Soc. Phila., X^ai, 1877-78 (May 17, 1878), p. 692. Peruvian Amazon. 

 Prof. J. Orton. 



Width of head 2 in its length ; interorbital space 2f in head, measured 



from tip of upper jaw. GUI-rakers 9 -I- 13. Color in alcohol more 



^<«?^. 





Fig. 60. — Stelhaprion chryseum Cope. 



or less uniform brown. In most respects similar to the preceding 

 Length 2f| inches (caudal damaged). Type. 



In Part I of tliis paper a number of figures have been blurred by the printer, 

 and as this may cause confusion in their comparison I give a list with explana- 

 tions. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



In the following figures the portions indicated are blurred: 



P. 298, fig. 4, Curimata spilura. Snout, interorbital space and side of mandible. 



P. 314, fig. 14, Prochilodus theraponura. Snout. 



P. 316, fig. 15, P. amazonensis. Snout, tip of first branched dorsal ray and 



lower pectoral rays. 

 P. 332, fig. 21, Cheirodon pulcher. Upper surface of snout, end of rayed dorsal 



and median caudal rays. 

 P. 336, fig. 24, Hemigrammus robustulus. Tip of upper caudal lobe. 

 P. 337, fig. 25. Astyanax ipanquianiis . Teeth, iris in front, breast, greater basal 



portion of pectoral fin together with scales just above, and anterior rays of 



anal basaUy. 

 P. 340, fig. 2S, Astyaiiax hauxwellianus. Tips of jaws and ends of anterior long 



dorsal ravs. 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



ON SOME FISHES OF WESTERN CUBA. 

 BY N. E. McINDOO. 



During the latter part of June and the first part of July, Mr. J. D. 

 Haseman and the writer, under the auspices of the Zoological Depart- 

 ment of Indiana University, visited twenty-one caves between Ala- 

 cranes and Canas, Cuba, in order to secure embryos of the blind fishes — 

 Stygicola and Lucifuga. 



We also collected fishes in the fresh waters and in the ocean at 

 Marianao and at Batabano. These are eniunerated in the present 

 paper. The expenses were in part provided by a grant from the 

 Carnegie Institution. 



After collecting blind fishes we made our headquarters at the Estacion 

 Central Agronomica de Cuba, located at Santiago de las Vegas. I wish 

 to express oiu- appreciation for the numerous favors which the Director, 

 Prof. E. S. Earle, of the Station, showed us. 



Localities Visited. 



Lagunas Castellanos. Two and one-half miles southwest of Santiago 

 de las Vegas there are three smaU lagoons situated in a narrow valley. 

 These lagoons are called the "I,agunas Castellanos." Laguna Castel- 

 lano No. 1 covers about five acres, has steep banks; its bottom is a 

 mixture of mud and gravel, and its water is comparatively clear. 



Laguno Castellano No. 2 lies about three hundred j^ards north of No. 

 1. It is not as large as No. 1. Its banks are very sloping and covered 

 with aquatic plants which extend into the water one-tliird the distance 

 to the center. The bottom is deep, black mud. The water is very 

 muddy. 



We did not visit Laguna Castellano No. 3, which is somewhat larger 

 than either of the other two and lies a half mile due west of them. 



All the fishes we caught in the clear water of Laguna Castellano No. 1 

 are dark in color; those that came from the muddy Castellano No. 2 

 are light in color. 



Rio Almendares. We seined in the Almendares river at Calabazar 

 for a half mile below the wagon bridge. Under the bridge the water 

 is deep and swift, but thirty feet below the stream widens and the 

 water is shallow. Here the bottom is covered with gravel and large 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4S5 



rocks. It was scarcely possible to seine with success in the river below 

 this point on account of the swift water and steep banks. 



Batabano lies on the southern shore of Cuba, nearly due south of 

 Havana. The country about Batabano is very low, a semi-swamp. 

 The entu-e region between Havana and Batabano, with the exception 

 of a few miles drained by the Almendares river, is drained by under- 

 ground streams. One of these finds its exist at the Vento Springs, near 

 Havana, and supplies Havana with its water. Two others find 

 their exit near Batabano, one of which arises some distance inland 

 from Batabano and sends a stream six to ten feet wide and about two 

 feet deep through the central part of Batabano. 



The other stream arises about three hundred yards from the ocean 

 and flows tlirough the western part of the town. The water is clear and 

 sluggish. Both of these streams run due south and empty into the 

 ocean one-fourth of a mile apart. We seined in the larger stream just 

 north of town, where the water was rather sluggish and the bottom 

 muddy. We used the dip net in town, because it was impossible to 

 handle the seine among the stakes along the banks. 



TVliile at Batabano we seined in the ocean along the western side of 

 the wharf, and at the mouth of the small stream in the western part 

 of town. The water is very shallow and the bottoms muddy. Our 

 success was very poor. 



Marianao is a small town eight miles west of Havana. On account 

 of the rough rocks which form tide pools, it was impossible to use the 

 seine at JIarianao, but three-fourths of a mile northwest the water is 

 shallow and the rocks are covered -nnth sand. Here we had success 

 with the seine. Between this place and Marianao we caught several 

 fishes in the tide pools with our hands or with dip net. The following 

 species were collected in these various localities. 



Fresh-Water Fishes. 



PCECILIID^. 



The members of this family are ever}T\here abundant. 



Cyprinodon riverendi (Poey). 



Six small specimens from the stream just north of Batabano. 



Fundnlus cubensis Eigenmann. 



Four small specimens from the stream just north of Batabano. This 

 species seems to be rather rare. It has so far been recorded from 

 rinar del Rio only. 



Gambusia punctata Poey. 



Ever^•^vhere abundant. Both males and females were caught in the 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Almendares river at Calabazar, at the mouth of a small stream empty- 

 ing into the ocean at Marianao and Laguna Castellano No. 2. The 

 specimens from this lagoon are very light colored and have a more 

 elongate body than the other specimens. 



Gambusia punoticulata Poey. 



Very abundant. Our specimens were caught at Calabazar and in 

 I.aguna Castellano No. 1. Those from the latter place were collected 

 by Prof. Baker, of the Estacion Central Agronomica de Cuba. 



Pcecilia vittata Guichenot. 



Found everyTvhere. Our specimens from Lagunas Castellanos Nos. 

 1 and 2, from Calabazar and from the stream north of Batabano. All 

 the specimens from liaguna Castellano No. 1 are dark colored; both 

 males and females were caught in I.aguna Castellano No. 2 and every 

 one is light in color. All the females contain eggs. Those caught at 

 Calabazar and at Batabano are dark colored, which is due to the clear 

 water. 



CIOHLID^. 



The individuals of the gemis Hcros are quite common every^-here. 

 They are as abundant in the streams of western Cuba as are the smi 

 fishes in Indiana. They vary greatly in coloration. 



Heros tetracanthua (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



i\Iany specimens caught in the Lagunas Castellanos. Those from 

 Laguno Castellano No. 1 are very dark colored; some of them are dark 

 brown and approach a black, while others are much lighter in color. 

 Most of the scales with a dark brown spot at base, these spots forming 

 faint longitudinal series; head, preoperculum and operculum darker 

 than other parts of body ; preoperculum with three almost black length- 

 wise streaks; dorsal, anal, and caudal with dark spots. 



The following is the color description of a specimen from Laguna 

 Castellano No. 2. Backgroimd flesh color, black dots forming indis- 

 tinct and discontinuous longitudinal streaks; snout ashy without dark 

 spots; preoperculum and operculum with four discontinuous length- 

 wise streaks; ventrals and anal ashy; pectorals flesh color; caudal 

 without basal spot; caudal and dorsal with dark spots. 



Heros tetracanthus cinotus Eigenmann. 



From Lagima Castellano No. 2 and the stream north of Batabano. 

 Those from Laguna Castellano No. 2, as all other specimens from the 

 same place, are light in color. Each one is barred conspicuouslj'. 

 The specimens collected at Batabano are much darker. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4S7 



GOBIID^. 

 Dormitator maoulatus (Bloch). 



Several specimens from Laguna Castellano No. 1. Comparatively 

 light in color. 



Marine Fishes. 

 ESOCID^. 

 Tylosurus euryops Bean & Dresel. 



Several from the mouth of the stream in the western part of Bata- 

 bano. They are very swift and difficult to catch. 



ATHERINID^. 

 Atherina laticeps Poey. 

 Several specimens from Marianao. 



MUGILID.ffl. 



Mugil trichodon Poey. 



Several were caught at Batabano, west of the wharf. 



MULLID^. 

 Upeneus maoulatus (Bloch). 

 One specimen from Marianao. 



CARANGID^. 

 Caranx ruber CBloch). 

 Several from Marianao. 



Traohinotus falcatus (Linnwus.)] 



One specimen from Marianao. 



LUTIANID^. 

 Neomaenis apodus (Walbaum). 



H One small specimen from Marianao. 

 Neomsenis gynagris (Linnieus). 

 Several were collected at Marianao. 



H^MULID2E3 

 Bathy stoma rimator (Jordan & Swain). 



Many from Marianao. 



GERRID.,S!. 

 Ulaema lefroyi (Goode). 



Two specimens from Marianao. 

 Eucinostomus pseudogula Poey. 



Six specimens from ^larianao. 




48S 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



Euoinostomus meeki Eigenmann. 



Two specimens from Marianao. 



SCI^NID^. 



Bairdiella ronohus (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



One large and three small specimens from Marianao. 



POMAOENTRIDiE. 

 Abndefdaf saxatilis (Linnaus). 



Eight specimens from Marianao. 

 Eupomacentrus leucostictus Gill. 



Three small specimeas from Marianao. 



SOARID^. 

 Sparisoma hoplomystax ICope). 



Several specimens from Marianao. 



GOBIID^. 



Gobius soporator Cuvier A Valenciennes. 



Two large and two small specimens from Marianao. 



BLENNIID^. 

 Labrisomus nuchipinnns (Quoy & Gaimard). 



Three specimens from Marianao. 



PLEURONECTID.ffi. 

 Platophrys lunatus (Linnseus). 

 Two small fishes from Marianao. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



November 6. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-six persons present. 



Mr. Witmer Stone made a conunuuication on the recently acquii-ed 

 Tristram collection of birds, illustrating his remarks by tlie exliibition 

 of specimens. (No abstract.) 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following 

 titles had been presented for publication: 



"New Oribatida from the United States," by Nathan Banks. 



"Descriptions of New Species of Polychteta from the Southeastern 

 Coast of Massachusetts," by J. Percy iMoore. 



November 20. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Fifty persons present. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp made a communication on the history and 

 habits of the fur seal, illustrated by lantern views. (No abstract.) 

 The following were accepted for pubhcation: 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



NEW ORIBATID^ FROM THE UNITED STATES. 

 BY NATHAN BANKS. 



The Oribatidff, or "beetle-mites" as they have been called because 

 of their hard tegmnents, have been but little collected or studied in our 

 country. In 1895 the writer described those he had observed on Long 

 Island, N. Y., and a few others. In 1896 a few more were added to the 

 list. Nowl describe twenty-four more, from various partsof the country. 



Our Oribatid fauna is similar to that of Europe, so far but one or 

 two peculiar genera ; but we have a larger percentage of smooth species, 

 as Galumna, Oribatula, and fewer of the roughened species, as Notaspis, 

 Nothrus, and Cepheus. The genus Pdops, represented in Europe by 

 ten or twelve species, has not yet been found in North America. 

 Galumna slossonae n. sp. 



Color, dark brown, a pale spot at base of abdomen, legs pale. Cepha- 

 lothorax with a long lamella each side, its apical third free and pointed, 

 bearing a rather short bristle; a narrower lamella or ridge on each outer 

 edge, ending in a short bristle; superior bristles long, erect; pseudostig- 

 matic organ long, clavate at tip. Abdomen longer than broad, smooth, 

 w ith six rather thickened bristles each side, two toward humerus, four 

 near tip; wings quite long, not one-half as high as long; genital opening 

 about twice its length in front of the larger anal opening; sternum 

 with three lines each side, middle pair longest. Legs quite long and 

 slender; femora I and II very Ijroad, femur II with a pointed lobe at 

 tip beneath; all tibiie with two stout spines at tip, one on patella II, 

 and one below tarsi IV; three strongly unequal claws, the middle one 

 \'ery much larger than the others ; a large tectopedium behind coxa I. 



Lengtli .5 mm. 



From Franconia, N. H. (Mrs. A. T. Slosson.) 



Galumna unimaculata n. sp. 



Color, red brown, a yellowish spot at base of the abdomen. Cepha- 

 lothorax with a rather broad lamella each side, its apical fourth free, 

 tip slightly emarginate, and with a short bristle; superior bristles rather 

 fine, long; pseudostigmatic organ not very long, clavate at tip. Abdo- 

 men large, globose, rather longer than broad, four pale smooth spots 

 on each side, the basal pair much larger tlian the others; nine bristles 




1906.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



each side, two submedian toward base, one humeral, rather longer 

 than others, four on posterior part, and two on the posterior margin ; 

 wings large, nearly as high as long, projecting a little in front of 

 the abdomen, evenly rounded below; both wings and abdomen 

 evenly, minutely granulate; genital opening twice its length 

 in front of larger anus ; venter granulate ; sternal plate with two lines 

 each side. Legs short and small, high up on the sides, leg IV not near 

 as long as width of the body ; with fine hairs as usual; three equal claws. 



Length 1 mm. 



Franconia, N. H. (Mre. A. T. Slosson.) 



Galamna nitidula n. sp. 



Dark red brown, no basal spot on abdomen; legs pale yellowish. 

 Cejjhalothorax very small and short, a lamella along each side, two- 

 thirds the way to tip, its tip free and ending in a short bristle; superior 

 bristles very short; pseudostigmatie organ rather short, fusiform. 

 Abdomen plainly longer than broad, high, without hairs, smooth and 

 shining, venter also ; wings very smaU, angulate in front ; genital open- 

 ing one and one-half its length in front of much larger anal opening; 

 sternal plate with two furrows across, hind margin of hind cox^e run- 

 ning into middle of genital opening; legs very short and small; the tarsi 

 equal to the tibise; three equal claws. 



Length .7 mm. 



From Franconia, N. H. (Mrs. A. T. Slosson.) 



Galamna persimilis n. sp. 



Color, dark brown, a pale spot at base of abdomen, legs pale yellow- 

 ish. Cephalothorax with a broad lamella each side, its apical third 

 free and ending in a long bristle, on outer side a long, erect pointed 

 lamella, ending in a quite long bristle, a short lamella each side 

 on tip of cephalothorax, higher in middle than at either end ; 

 superior bristles long, erect; pseudostigmatie organ short and 

 clavate. Abdomen smooth, globose; nine bristles each side, those 

 toward apex thickened and almost clavate, one himaeral, three near 

 middle of each side, and five toward tip; wings not very large, much 

 longer than high, triangular, but rounded below; venter smooth; 

 genital opening twice its length in front of larger anus ; a pair of bristles 

 behind anus; sternal plate with three lines each side, middle longest. 

 Legs short and slender; tarsi as long as tibise; a spine-Uke, barbed 

 bristle beneath each patella, and two at tips of tibice; femur IV mar- 

 gined beneath; a large tectopedium behind coxa I; three equal claws. 



Length .5 mm. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov„ 



From Franconia, X. H. (Mrs. A. T. Slosson.) Differs from G. 

 slossonce by equal claws, very short pseud ostigmatic organs, etc. 



Galumna imperfecta n. sp. 



Color, pale yellow brown, legs paler. Cephalothorax with a rather 

 broad lamella on each side, reaching one-half way down, with a long 

 hair at tip; superior bristles long, erect; pseud ostigmatic organ very 

 long, clavate at tip. Abdomen large, barely longer than broad, not 

 rery high, smooth and shining, no hairs; wings of moderate size, tri- 

 angular, one-half as high as long, not projecting in front of abdomen, 

 outer lower corner rounded ; venter smooth ; genital opening f ullj^ twice 

 its length in front of the much larger anal opening, a short transverse 

 line a little in front of the anus; sternum with three transverse grooves, 

 the posterior two run into the genital opening, the other is angulate on 

 middle, but does not reach the sides. Legs rather short, femora broad, 

 tarsi about as long as tibiae, but one claw to each tarsus. 



Length .6 mm. 



Several from Indianapolis, Ind. (Blatchley.) 



Galumna minascnla n. sp. 



Color, yellomsh brown, legs paler. Cephalothorax with a lamella 

 each side, connected near tip by a translamella, a rather long barbed 

 hair from near base of tip; on each outer edge a low marginal lamella, 

 which ends in a long bristle; superior bristles long, and barbed ; pseud o- 

 stigmatic organ very short, capitate. Abdomen globose, smooth, 

 without hairs, its outline in front not complete; venter smooth; genital 

 aperture one and one-half its length in front of larger anal opening, a 

 transverse ridge shortly behind anus, which is fully as broad in front as 

 behind; sternal plate with a line each side in front of genital opening, 

 and a dot each side in front of this; wings small, not projecting in front 

 of abdomen, the lower anterior corner rounded. Legs short; the 

 femora broad, especially II and IV, and margined above with bristles 

 before middle; tarsi equal to tibiae. 



Length .5 mm. 



From Bay Ridge, lid. Differs from G. mcesta Bks. by having a trans- 

 lamella, and by less divided sternal plate. 



Galamna armipes n. sp. 



Color, dark brown, a yeUow spot on base of abdomen, cephalothorax 

 and legs yellowish. Cephalothorax with a broad lamella on each side, 

 reaching nearh' to tip of head, it terminates in a short, curved bristle, 

 just above the translamella is a pair of short bristles, no superior 

 bristles; pseudostigmatic organ spatulate, porrect. Abdomen longer 




1906.] NATDRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



than broad, its dorsum minutely roughened, without hairs, wings 

 finely granulate, not very long, but nearly as high, margin evenly con- 

 vex; ventral surface finely granulate; the genital opening not quite its 

 length in front of the larger anal opening, the latter broader behind 

 than in front, where it tapers round edly ; sternal plate with three f lU"- 

 rows each side, the second being the longest. Legs rather short; tarsi 

 longer than tibiae, two'^barbed spines below on tarsi I and II, one on 

 tibiiE I and II, also on tarsi and tibiis IV; hind femora margined below. 



Length .4 mm. 



From Falls Chm-ch, Va., and Fort Lee, N. J. 



Galumna virginioa n. sp. 



Color, pale yellowish. Cephalothorax with a broad lamella each side, 

 its apical two-fifths free, and tipped by a long bristle ; a low ridge out- 

 side each lamella ; superior bristles erect, not very long, barbed ; pseudo- 

 stigmatic organ very long, clavate at tip. Abdomen longer than 

 broad, depressed, smooth, without hairs; wings very long, not one- 

 half as high, rounded below; venter smooth; genital opening once and 

 one-half its length in front of the very much larger anus ; sternal plate 

 with three lines each side. Legs rather short and stout; femora III 

 and IV margined below; bristles under tarsi and tip of tibiae are stout 

 and barbed ; tarsi I and II plainly longer than tibiae, tarsi III and IV 

 hardly as long as tibiae; three equal claws. 



Length .5 mm. 



From Falls Church, Va. 



Galnmna turg^ida n. sp. 



Color, reddish brown, legs paler. Dorsum smooth; cephalothorax 

 with a lamella each side reaching more than half-way down, a narrow 

 transverse ridge connecting the lateral ones; inferior and superior 

 bristles barbed, the latter very long; pseudostigmatic organ very short, 

 capitate; abdomen very large, globose, without hairs; wings not very 

 large, longer than high, rounded below; genital opening more than 

 twice its length in front of the much larger anal aperture; from the 

 hind coxae there is a line obliquely up on each side to the dorsiun. 

 Sternum with a line each side toward anterior margin of the genital 

 opening, and in front of this a dot each side; behind on each side is a 

 short line. Legs moderately long, femur I rather swollen above, 

 femora III and IV only slightly margined below; tarsi longer than 

 tibiae; three equal claws. 



Length .6imT:i. 



Several from Palm Springs, California. (Hubbard.) 

 33 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Galnmna texana n. sp. 



Color, dark red brown, pale spot at base of abdomen, and legs pale 

 yellowish. Cephalothorax short and broad, nearly smooth, superior 

 bristles long, porrect, inferior bristles short, lamellae indistinct ; pseudo- 

 stigmatic organ quite long, clavate at tip. Abdomen high and broad, 

 two black notches on front margin, sm-face finely punctate; wings very 

 large, long and broad, rather coarsely punctate, its lower margin entire. 

 Venter more roughly rugose, almost reticulate; genital opening once 

 and two-thirds its length in front of the much larger anal opening ; the 

 latter is much broader behind than in front. Coxce IV very widely 

 separate; the sternal plate with a line each side; legs small and very 

 slender, with a few hairs in usual positioiis. 



Length .7 mm. 



One specimen from San Antonio, Tex., August. 



Oribatula pallida n. sp. 



Color, pale yellowish. Cephalothorax smooth above, with a lamella 

 each side reaching one-half way to tip, a long bristle at each tip, superior 

 bristles long and erect; pseudostigmatic organ quite long, clavate at 

 tip. Abdomen much longer than broad, smooth above, without hairs, 

 no distinct wings, but at each anterior corner a shelf-like projection; 

 genital opening more than twice its length in front of the very much 

 larger anal opening; a transverse fm'row behind coxae II pointing to- 

 ward genital apertiu'e, in front and behind this fvuTow is a line on each 

 side, but no line from hind coxae to genital opening. Legs slender 

 tarsi all a little longer than the tibiae; all with fine hairs. 



Length .38 mm. 



One specimen from Fort Lee, N. J. 



Liacaras carolinensis n. sp. 



Color, dark brown, legs paler. Cephalothorax with two pairs of 

 lamellae, the inner pair are quite broad, and touch on inner side toward 

 base, leaving a broad triangular space above, each with free tip and a 

 long bristle, outer lamella narrow, and nearly reaches tip of head, with 

 a bristle at apex; pseudostigmatic organ rather long, not barbed. 

 Abdomen elongate, tapering behind, smooth above, no hairs; venter 

 very minutely punctate; genital opening small, more than three times 

 its length in front of the very much larger anal opening, the latter more 

 than twice as long and more than twice as broad as the genital opening, 

 and longer than broad ; the posterior margin of body seen from below 

 shows three short fine bristles each side, the inner pair shorter than the 

 others; sternal plate with three complete transverse lines, hind margin 




1906.) NATUHAX, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



of coxip IV rtinning into the genital opening slightly in front of the 

 middle; a large tectopedium behind coxte I. Legs very slender; tarsi I 

 and II shghtly longer than tibiae ; tarsi III and IV much shorter than 

 those tibiae ; tliree spine-like bristles below tarsi III and IV, and those 

 on these tibise are rather short; three equal claws. 



Length LI mm. 



One specimen from Black Moimtain, N. C. (BeutemniiUer.) 



Liacams abdominalis n. sp. 



Color, red-brown, legs paler. Cephalothorax, with a broad sub- 

 median lamellae, nearly touching before tip, their apical fourth free, 

 and tipped by a long bristle, a long, low outer ridge or lamella, reaching 

 nearly to tip of head and ending with a short bristle; superior bristles 

 very long, erect, simple; pseud ostigmatic organ of moderate length, 

 swollen toward tip and then tapering to a fine point. Abdomen elong- 

 ate, smooth, no hairs above ; venter smooth ; fine hairs each side of anus , 

 and a pair behind; genital apertiu^e very small, fully three times its 

 length in front of anus, the latter more than tmce as long, and twice as 

 broad as the genital opening; sternal plate with three complete fur- 

 rows. Legs slender, the hind pair do not reach tip of abdomen; a 

 large tectopedium behind coxa I ; tarsi I and II as long as tibiae, tars i 

 III and IV much shorter than tibiae; all the hairs are fine; three equal 

 claws. 



Length 1 mm. 



One specimen from Claremont, Cal. (Baker.) 



Liacarus frontalis n. sp. 



Pale yellowish brown, legs paler. Cephalothorax with two low 

 lamellae each side, the submedian pair nearlj- meet somewhat beyond 

 middle of cephalothorax, and are tipped with long, porrect bristles, the 

 marginal lamellae reach nearh' to tip of head and end in short bristles; 

 the superior bristles are long, simple, and erect; pseud ostigmatic 

 organ rather long, fusiform, its tip acute. Abdomen nearly circular, 

 not very high, smooth, without hairs; venter smooth; genital opening 

 circular, one and one-fourth its length in front of much larger anal 

 opening, the latter evenly elliptical ; sternal plate with three transverse 

 lines, all complete, hind margin of coxae IV running into middle of 

 genital opening. Legs slender, with simple hairs; tarsus I shorter 

 than tibia I, tarsus IV neai-ly as long as tibia IV; three equal claws; 

 mandibles large and stout, palpi very distinct. 



Length .5 mm. 



From Falls Chm-ch, Va. 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Notaspis oastanea n. sp. 



Color, red brown, legs paler. Cephalothorax with a broad lamella 

 each side, nearl}^ touching before the tip, the tip deeply excavate, 

 leaving a sharp point each side, from middle of tip arises a long simple 

 bristle; superior bristles short, erect; pseudostigmatic organ short and 

 fusiform, with a pointed tip, in length not more than one-third the 

 width of the cephalothorax. Abdomen somewhat longer than broad, 

 broadest in middle, dorsum minuteh' pmictate, without bristles. 

 Wliole under surface of body stronglj' punctate, and imiformly so; 

 genital aperture twice its length in front of the larger anal opening, 

 the latter longer than broad. Sternal plate traasversely divided by a 

 furrow much nearer to the posterior than to the anterior margin. Legs 

 rather slender, IV longer than wadth of body at that point; tarsus I 

 shorter than the tibia ; a sharp-pointed tectopedium behind coxa I. 



Length .95 mm. 



One specimen from Himiboldt, Cal. 



DTotaspis oarbonaria n. sp. 



Color, shining jet black, legs yellowish. Cephalothorax with a 

 broad lamella each side, extending beyond head, tip excavate, but the 

 inner point much longer than outer, from middle of tip arises a long 

 simple bristle; superior bristles as long as cephalothorax, sunple; 

 pseudostigmatic organ slender, simple, rather longer than one-half the 

 width of cephalothorax. Abdomen elongate, more than three times 

 as long as cephalothorax, and tapering behind; densely pitted above 

 and below. Venter -n-ith a ciuved ridge behind, extending forward each 

 side in front of anal aperture, and almost traceable to hind coxae. 

 Genital aperture with hind border about as far forward as hind margin 

 of hind coxre, fuUy three times its length in front of the aual apertiue, 

 the latter nearly twice as broad and twice as long as genital opening. 

 Sternal plate divided by a transverse fm-row. Legs short and weak, 

 IV not more than two-thhds of width of body at that place; aU tarsi 

 short, the first much shorter than tibia I, and bearing a hair beyond 

 its middle more than one-half longer than joint; claws three. 



Length 1 .4 mm. 



One specimen from Humboldt, Cal. 



Oppia spinipes n. sp. 



Color, pale yellowish brown, legs paler, lamellre blackish. Cephalo- 

 thorax with a pair of low-, submedian lameUte, the apical third free, and 

 terminating in a long barbed bristle; a short lamella each side near apex 

 of head, and ending in a short bristle; superior bristles long, porrect. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



finely barbed; pseudostigmatic organ quite long, barbed, not thickened 

 at tip. Abdomen globose, with four, rather long, barbed bristles 

 behind ; genital aperture scarcely its length in front of the larger anal 

 opening; sternal structure as in 0. bipilis, the hind furrow running into 

 middle of genital opening, a transverse furrow in front of this, and in 

 front of latter is a short furrow on each side. Legs quite long and 

 slender; femora III and IV very broad, and margined below, II moder- 

 ately broad, I pedicellate; tarsi III and IV with two or three stout, 

 barbed, spine-like bristles; a long, barbed bristle from trochanter III; 

 three claws. 



Length .4 to .7 mm. 



Several examples from Falls Chiu-ch, Va. This is strictly congeneric 

 with 0. bipilis of Em-ope. 



Oppia canadensis n. sp. 



Color, pale yellow. Cephalothorax with lamellae like 0. spinipes, but 

 they are much longer, nearly one-half the length is free; the superior 

 bristles are rather longer; the pseudostigmatic organs about the same. 

 The abdomen has foiu- long bristles behind, the submedian pair plainly 

 longer than in 0. spinipes; the abdomen above and below is shghtly 

 roughened ; genital opening its length in front of larger anus, latter with 

 two bristles each side, and a pair behind; sternal structure as in 0. 

 spinipes ;hind coxeb large and broad ; a long bristle from trochanter III ; 

 the spine-Uke bristles on hind tarsi are rather more slender than in . 

 spin ipes. 



Length .7 to .85 mm. 



Several from Ottawa, Canada. (Harrington.) 



Oppia montana n. sp. 



Color, pale yellowish. Cephalothorax with lamella as in allied 

 species, fuUy one-third of length free; superior bristles very long, 

 barbed; the barbed pseudostigmatic organ is longer than in 0. spinipes. 

 The abdomen is globose, with six short hairs behind, the superior 

 median pair longer than the others, but all much shorter than in 0. 

 spinipes and 0. canadensis; genital aperture one and one-fom-th its 

 length in front of the somewhat larger anus, sternal structure as in 

 allied species ; legs long and slender, the barbed bristles not very stout ; 

 a barbed bristle on trochanter III. 



Length .5 mm. 



From Franconia, N. H. (Mrs. A. T. Slosson.) 



Cepheus lamellatns n. sp. 



Color, red brown, legs paler, lamellae pale brown, reticulate. Cephal- 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



othorax triangular, with a broad lamella each side, broader near tip 

 than at base, and the tip trilobed, the middle lobe giving rise to a 

 cm'ved, simple bristle; a pair of smaller bristles on tip of head. Supe- 

 rior bristles long and rather thick. Seta about one-half the width of 

 the cephalothorax, and clavate at tip. Abdomen nearly circular in 

 outline, not veiy high, above den.sely and roughly reticulate with rather 

 heaNy ridges, w'ith ten pairs of thick bristles, all minutelj- barbed ; one 

 on each shoulder, two each side back and inward from this, three in a 

 submarginal row on each posterior side, and four each side on posterior 

 margin, two of them being near the tip, and rather more clavate than 

 the others. Legs rather slender, with hairs in usual arrangement, 

 long ones from tip of tibia and near middle of tarsus. Coxae separated, 

 but coxse II united on the median line; coxse III and I\' very short, 

 especially the latter, these giving room for the genital aperture, 

 which is not one-half its length in front of the much larger anal 

 opening ; venter finely irregularh' rugose. 



Length .65 mm. 



One specimen from Blue Hill, ]\lass., October. 



Oribata puritanioa n. sp. 



Color, dark red brown, legs paler. Cephalothorax triangular, sur- 

 face smooth, two pairs of curved bristles near tip, an erect bristle near 

 base of each pseudostigmatic organ, the latter straight, thick, and 

 nearly as long as width of cephalothorax at that point. Abdomen 

 globose, smooth, with five pairs of stout, fusiform bristles above; a 

 basal pair pointing forward on extreme front margin of abdomen, the 

 others behind in a submarginal row each side; a pair of longer, curx-ed, 

 simple bristles at tip. \'enter smooth; genital and anal apertures 

 touching; anal plates with two or three strice, and each aperture with 

 two simple bristles each side, and two behind anus. Sternal plate with 

 a broad, deep furrow each side. Legs slender; I barely longer than 

 body, IV plainly longer; joints swollen at tips, and each with several 

 long, curved bristles near tijj; tarsi very slender; but one claw. 



Length 1 mm. 



One specimen from Middlesex Fells, Mass., October. 



Oribata longiseta n. sp. 



Color, pale yellowish brown. Surface above and below smooth. 

 Cephalothorax with an apical pair of short bristles, and a stout black 

 bristle each side on vertex, near the pseudostigma. The pseudostig- 

 matic organ, long and slender, with a cirrved and barbate tip, plainly 

 longer than width of cephalothorax. Abdomen globose, with scattered 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



fine erect bristles, about 25 of them, none long; three in front 

 and two rows each side behind, those on apical third longer and thicker 

 tlian others, but the last pair short. Venter smooth ; genital and anal 

 openings touching, the latter more elongate; a pair of short bristles just 

 behind anus, and a transverse, black ridge just before tip ; sternal plate 

 with a dark furrow each side. Legs slender; the joints nodose; I a 

 little longer than body, IV plainly longer, tarsi extremely slender; 

 femora I and II plainly larger than others; all with curved bristles, 

 mostly plumose, at least near tip, that from patellar joint of leg IV 

 extremely long, and plumose at tip, another verj' long, simple hair at 

 tip of tibia IV; but one claw. A short, sharp spine behind coxa I, a 

 larger one behind coxa II. 



Length .75 mm. 



Several specimens from Falls Church, Va., December. . 



Nothrus taurinuB n. sp. 



Dull brown, rather paler in middle of the abdomen. Cephalothorax 

 and abdomen roughened; a large curved process each side on tip of 

 cephalothorax, a pair of bristles from near middle, and an irregular 

 transverse ridge across base;pseudostigmatic organ short, and capitate. 

 Dorsmn of abdomen depressed, margins raised, four long erect l)rist]es 

 on each side, another more curved before tip, a straight one from each 

 apical corner, and a submedian pair of curved ones at tip, a basal sub- 

 median pair of shorter ones, and a longer humeral pair, all very stout. 

 Abdomen elongate, about twice as long as wide at base, only a little 

 wider at tip; genital and anal openings about equal in size, and touch- 

 ing; the latter much before tip, and behind it each side are a couple 

 of bristles. Legs short and heavy, all with a few curved hairs; femora 

 broad at base ; leg IV not reaching tip of body. 



Length 1 mm. 



One specimen from Falls Church, Va. 



Neoliodes floridensis n. sp. 



This species is similar in most respects to N. concentricus Saj', Ijut at 

 once separated therefrom by the fact that the basal median part of the 

 dorsum of the abdomen (on the first tm-n) is separated from the sides 

 by a lateral ridge, and the enclosed space is densely granulate; in N. 

 concentricus this part is longitudinally striate, and there is no lateral 

 ridge. The apex of 'the abdomen above is not as high nor as pointed 

 as in A'', concentricus. The legs are somewhat shorter, but the most 

 distinct difference in the legs is that in this species there is a large lobe 

 below at apex of each femur, especially large on legs I and II ; the tarsi 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



and pseudostigmatic organs are somewhat shorter. Color, black, a 

 pale area each side at base of the cephalothorax. 



Length .9 mm. 



Many specunens from Lake Worth, Fla. (Slosson.) 



Explanation of Plates XIV, XV, XVI, XVII, XVIII. 



Plate XTV. — Fig. 1. — Galumna slossonce. 

 Fig. 2. — Galumna slossonce, wing. 

 Fig. 3. — Galumyia slossonoe, legs I and II (below). 

 Fig. 4. — Liacanis frontalis. 

 Fig. 5. — Liacarus frontalis, leg I, and seta. 

 Fig. 6. — Oribata puritanica, seta, and hair from body. 

 Fig. 7. — Oppia canadensis. 

 Fig. S. — Galumna armipes, wing, and tarsus I. 

 Fig. 9. — Galumna armipes. 



PL.4.TB XV. — Fig. to. — Oppiamontana. 

 Fig. 11. — Galumna minuscula. 



Fig. 12. — Oribata longiseta, seta, and hair from body. 

 Fig. 13. — Galumna persimilis, wing. 

 Fig. 14. — Cepheus kimellatus. 

 Fig. 15. — Galumna persimilis. 



Plate X'ST. — Fig. 16. — Notaspis casta7iea. 

 Fig. 17. — Liacarus carolinensis. 

 Fig. IS. — Galumna rirginica. 

 Fig. 19. — Neoliodes fioridcnsis, leg I. 

 Fig. 20. — Galumna virginica, wing. 

 Fig. 21. — Galumna imperfecta. 



Plate X"V^I. — Fig. 22. — Oppia spinipes. 

 Fig. 23. — Nothrus taurinus. 

 Fig. 24. — Galumna texana. 

 Fig. 25. — Galumna turgida, wing, and seta. 

 Fig. 26. — Galumna turgida. 

 Fig. 27. — Galumna nitidula. 



Plate XVIII.— Fig. 28.— Oribatula pallida. 

 Fig. 29. — Liacarus abdominalis. 

 Fig. 30. — Notaspis earbonaria. 

 Fig. 31. — Notaspis earbonaria, leg I. 

 Fig. 2,2.—Liacairus abdominalis, leg I. 

 Fig. 33. — Galumna unimaculata. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



DESCRIPTIOKS OF NEW SPECIES OF POLYCHSITA FROM THE SOUTH- 

 EASTERN COAST OF MASSACHUSETTS. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



Arabella spinifera sd. nov. 



This species is known only from an incomplete worm consisting of 

 the prostomium and fifty-one anterior segments and measiu"ing 18 mm. 

 long and 2 mm. in diameter, indicating a form less elongated than 

 Arabella opalina Verrill. 



Prostomium subcorneal, very slightly depressed, acute, more than 

 twice as long as the basal width ; sides straight ; ventral longitudinal 

 grooves close together and very faint. The noteworthy elongation 

 of the prostomium may be abnormal, resvilting from an injury at the 

 base. Eyes two, rather large, conspicuous, situated on the dorsiun 

 close to the posterior border of the prostomium and separated by a 

 space of less than one-third the basal width of the prostomium. 

 Palps rudimentary, or at least not ^dsible from the e.xterior, and 

 enclosed by the margins of the lips. 



Peristomium and somite II clearly separated by a deep fmrow, both 

 dorsally and ventrally ;both simple apodous rings, the former slightly the 

 longer. Posterior lip smooth. Fort-bearing somites all very short, 

 about 5-8 times as \\ide as long, all clearly defined by distinct furrows, 

 simple in structure, and decidedly more arched dorsally than ventrally, 

 making a subterete body. 



Parapodia begin on III. The first (Plate XIX, fig. 3) consists of a 

 small but prominent notopodium, and a neurapodium which is divided 

 into a short and stout, rounded presetal lobe supported by a single 

 stout aciculum, and a similarly formed but slightly longer postsetal lobe, 

 which is ventral and only slightly posterior to the former. Remaining 

 parapodia (fig. 4) are prominent, and the postsetal or ventral lobe is 

 elongated into a stout cirriform branchial organ containing a large 

 vascular loop. For the length of the piece the parapodia undergo no 

 change, except, fii'st, a slight increase in size of the postsetal lobe and, 

 second, a scarcely perceptible reduction of it in the last ten or twelve 

 somites. 



On the fii'st two or three parapodia the acicula do not project 

 beyond the surface, but the neuropodia of all others are supported by 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



two deep yellow acicula, the ends of which are exposed as in certain 

 species of Drilonereis and Aracoda. The dorsalmost (fig. 5, a) is much 

 the stouter and the end is bhint; the more ventral (fig. 5, b), besides 

 being more slender, is prolonged into an acute spinous jjrocess, which is 

 frequently broken off. Further caudad the larger acicukun becomes 

 still stouter and more distinctly curved. Two or three very fine 

 acicula reach to the base of the notopodial tubercle (fig. 4). 



On the first somite the setae are all in a small, nearly vertical fascicle 

 between the two lobes, but they quickly rotate to a more oblique 

 position and divide into an oblique supra-acicular group and a horizon- 

 tal subacicular group. The former usually contains two pairs of 

 doubly curved, very acute, limbate setae with strongly striated stems 

 and finely denticulated margins (fig. 6); these are turned with profile 

 dorsal and ventral. Subacicular setae are two or three in a horizontal 

 row, turned so that in preparations of the parapodia both blades come 

 into view symmetrically; the blades are shorter and the tips more pro- 

 longed than on the supra-acicular setae (fig. 7). Dorsal setse yellow, 

 ventral nearly colorless. 



Mandibles (fig. 2) brown, with exposed tips white. The two halves 

 merely touch without uniting and then diverge both distally and proxi- 

 mally; dentinal plate not clearly differentiated from the carrier and 

 nearly equal to it in length; the former curved, divergent, ending in a 

 blunt white tip, without marginal teeth; the latter relatively short, 

 broad at distal, tapering to proximal end, divergent. Maxillae (fig. 1) 

 brown, four pairs, all but the first pair (forcep jaws) alternating in posi- 

 tion and more or less asymmetrical. Carriers of forceps filiform, about 

 twice the length of the series of jaws; the two halves coalesced near the 

 end, thickened, then constricted and again enlarged at the distal end; 

 the forceps roughly triangular, with three stout, hooked teeth along the 

 medial margin of the basal half and the ends strongly hooked. The 

 fu'st accessory plate on the left side longer than the forceps plate, with a 

 large hooked distal tooth and seven stout teeth gradually becoming 

 smaller toward the proximal end. All of the remaining jaw plates differ 

 little in size, but become successively somewhat smaller toward the 

 anterior end ; each is supported by two broad divergent wings and the 

 dentinal ridge bears 4-6 conspicuous, slender, claw-like teeth, one or 

 two of the anterior usually being enlarged. 



Color of preserved specimen : anterior end and parapodia rich yellow, 

 pale farther back ; the cuticle only slightly iridescent. 



The type and only known specimen (A. N. S. No. 2313) was found 

 among a lot of Ninoe nigripes Verrill dredged on the muddy bottom of 

 the middle of Buzzard's Bay, Mass., the exact spot being unknown. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



Praxillella tricirrata sp. nov. 



What appears to be an iindescribed species of Praxillella is imper- 

 fectly reprasented bj"^ several fragments, one consisting of the head and 

 nine metastomial segments, of which the head and five segments are 

 in process of regeneration, a second of somites \'l to XII inclusive, and 

 a third of the pygidium and eight preanal segments, the first five of 

 which are setigerous. 



This is a larger species than P. sonalis or P. elongata, haxnng a 

 diameter of .3 mm. and an estimated length of about 150 mm. The only 

 known anterior end, being in process of regeneration, presents an ab- 

 normal appearance, somewhat approximating that of a Nicomache or 

 Lumbriclymene. The entire regenerating region, consisting of the 

 prostomium and six somites, has a length of a trifle more than 3 mm. 

 and barely exceeds the sixth segment. 



Head very short, with the cephalic plate and limbate margin scarcelj- 

 developed. There is a rather thick, short and broad palpode, and run- 

 ning back from it a narrower but, relativeh' to the width of the head, 

 broad median ridge bounded on each side by the deep and conspicuous 

 sensory clefts, which again are bounded laterally by the low folds from 

 which the limbate margins \^-ill develop, the whole forming a narrow 

 area scarcely exceeding one-third of the entire width of the head and 

 sloping steeply downward anteriorly. Mouth a rather large crescentic 

 opening bounded by the narrow, furrowed persitomial Up. Peristo- 

 mium verj' short and uniannular. 



Somites II to ^T are about tmce as long as wide, slightlj^ compressed , 

 distinctly biannular, decreasing slightly in diameter to the last, and 

 with the fiuTows, except j^ which is obscure, well defined. No 

 distinct collars. The integuments of this region arc soft and delicate 

 and a careful examination discloses no developed setae, though the 

 setigerous glands are visible on some segments. 



The first normally developed segment (VI) is cylindrical, quite as 

 long as the preceding part of the worm, and 2-3 times as thick; VII 

 and VIII are quite similar; IX and X are united into one joint about 

 four times as long as wide and without any dividing fmTow; XI is 

 shghtly longer than VIII, and XII still longer. Except ^ all 

 furrows in this region are deep and distinct; the segments somewhat 

 depressed and distinctly flattened ventraUy. On VI, VII and \TII 

 the parapodia are situated one-third of the length of the segment from 

 its anterior end, and all of the area anterior to them is occupied by a 

 thick, whitish, glandular zone; a similar zone exists on IX, while on X a 

 thick, rugous, ventral, glandular area of triangular form extends 




504 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



forward from and between the posterior tori to an apex halfway to the 

 tori of IX, whence a narrow median ventral ridge continues it forward 

 to the glandular zone of IX; XI and XII have no glandular areas, 

 though the tori form prominent swellings near their posterior ends. 



The posterior segments are much contracted and distorted, but it is 

 evident that they consist normally of a slender, very contractile, and 

 wrinkled anterior portion, and a short, enlarged, posterior parapodial 

 portion. They decrease in length regularly to the pygidium, which is 

 preceded by three achatous segments, of which the first closely re- 

 sembles the last setigerous in size, and has posterior swellings repre- 

 senting the parapodia;the next is about one-half and the next one- 

 fourth as long, widest posteriorly, where there are slight parapodial 

 thickenings. The last two gradually widen into the base of the 

 pygidium. 



Pygidium (Plate XIX, fig. S) with a short basal ring resemlDling the 

 last achaBtous segment, and bearing a thick posterior anal disk, the 

 margin of which is provided with a median ventral cirrus and a pair of 

 lateral, long, slender cirri each having a length of -j the diameter of the 

 disk, together with a circle of very regular prominent teeth of which five 

 are between the median and each of the lateral cu-ri, and fifteen between 

 the two latter on the dorsum. Anus occupying the centre of a low, regu- 

 lar, finely furrowed cone, and closed by a thick, fleshy papilla, which 

 arises from its ventral margin and bends dorsad. The usual raised neural 

 line runs for the entire length and passes on to the ventral cirrus. 



Setse and uncini are undeveloped on the regenerating segments. 

 They are sessile on VI-IX and borne on small papillfe and promi- 

 nent tori on all the others. Anteriorly the setse form small but very 

 prominent, vertical, linear tufts, which become more compact pos- 

 teriorly. They are similar on all segments. Anterior tufts contain 

 10-12 longer, stouter, shghtly curved, narrowly limbate setse (fig. 9), 

 with long, capillary tips, and nearly twice as many slender, capillary, 

 wingless setae, partly smooth and partly bipinnate, with fine hairs 

 (fig. 10). Farther back the}'^ become longer but fewer and in more 

 compact bundles, and most of the wingless setaj are smooth. 



The anterior thoracic crochets are of course unknown. On other 

 segments there are 15-19, the larger numbers behind. They are pale 

 j'ellow, strongly striated, with rather slender stem, shghtly con- 

 stricted to form a neck, but lacking a distinct shoulder; an expanded 

 head with a short, stout beak; a low crest with about four large and 

 two or three small, diminishing teeth flanked by small fibrous teeth; 

 and a conspicuous guard composed of 5-6 stout flattened hairs united 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



at the base and in contact with the lower surface of the beak to its 

 tip, above which they arch and recurve in a bold circle (figs. 11 and 12). 

 Living color and tube unknown. Filled with eggs on Sept. 2. 

 Taken on two occasions at Crab Ledge, east of Chatham, Mass., in 

 17-20 fathoms, on a stony and gravelly bottom, and not found else- 

 where. (Type No. 1253, Academj- of Natural Sciences of Phila.) 



Cirratulus parvus sp. nov. 



Form very slender, terete, nearly linear, but most slender and attenu- 

 ated posteriorly. Length 20-30 (usually about 25) mm., diameter 

 about .6 mm. Number of segments 60-75. 



Prostomium and peristomium united to form a distinct head (fig. 

 13). Prostomium broad and flat, broader than long, its width nearly 

 two-thirds widest part of body, shaped Uke the blade of a gravedigger's 

 shovel ; the upper surface with a pair of obliquely transverse sensory slits 

 at the place of union with the peristomium ; the ventral surface some- 

 what thickened and di\aded bAi- a longitudinal fissure. Eyes, one pair, 

 conspicuous, roimded or slightly elongated obliquely, widely separated 

 on middle of head, close to the sensory slits. 



Peristomium a simple, somewhat swollen ring, scarcely differentiated 

 from the prostomium above, but elsewhere clearly defined and forming 

 a straight and smooth lip behind the relatively large mouth. Next two 

 segments (II and III) simple rings with a diameter equal to the peris- 

 tomium and a combined length equalling the entire length of the head. 



Setigerous and branchiate somites begin with IV, which is slightly 

 enlarged. They are at fii-st quite short, but rapidly lengthen without 

 corresponding increase in diameter until the length nearly or quite 

 equals the diameter. Posteriorly they again diminish in length and at 

 the caudal end is a short region of not clearly defined segments. All 

 somites simple and uniannular, and the intersegmental furrows smooth 

 and clear cut. Although the body is nearly terete the ventral surface 

 is somewhat flattened and the parapodia somewhat projecting. Pygi- 

 dium bearing a minute pointed projection below a nearly circular, 

 dorsal anus. 



Parapodia begin on IV and continue to posterior end ; they are small, 

 ventro-lateral projections bearing separate notopodial and neuropodial 

 tubercles. 



Branchial cirri also begin on IV just above the parapodia, and a pair 

 occurs on each segment for about twenty, after which they are borne on 

 every second or third segment and finally more scatteringly nearly to 

 the posterior end. Cirri of the middle and posterior region are borne 

 at the posterior margin of the segments some distance above the para- 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



poilia. They are slender, filiform and round, often half as long as the 

 botly and with the base constricted so that they are easily detached. 



Dorsal gills usually two pairs, sometimes a rudimentary third one on 

 one or both sides, placed side by side on the dorsum of IV just above the 

 parapodium and a little behind the branchial cirrus. They are slender 

 at the base and swell to about twice the diameter of the branchial cirri, 

 longer than the latter, longitudinally grooved for their entire length, 

 and in contraction crenulate, -wTinkled and more or less coiled in an 

 open spiral. 



Setae and spines scarcely differ in form and structure from those of 

 Cirratidus grandis. At the anterior end both notopodial and neuro- 

 podial tufts contain capillary setae only — about 6-8 in each — of various 

 lengths, the longest about two-thirds the body diameter. Spines 

 appear in the neiu-opodium at about XII, and a few segments farther 

 back each neuropodial tuft contains about four spines and four setae, 

 much shorter than on anterior segments (fig. 14). At the posterior 

 end there are about two of each. In notopodial tufts the setae become 

 fewer and shorter from before backward, but usually spines appear only 

 in those of the posterior one- third. 



Color pale yellow or orange, usually with a greenish tinge, the integu- 

 ments translucent, permitting the dark intestine to show through. 

 Gills and cirri reddish from the contained blood. 



Known only from the deeper waters of Vineyard and Nantucket 

 Sounds, in from 10-19 fathoms, where it lives in colonies among the 

 crevices of Amarmcium peUucidum and in passages of shells. Quite 

 common in the latter at Crab Ledge, off Chatham. Nothing definite 

 known of breeding habits, but specimens taken in late August contain 

 small eggs. (Type No. 1657, Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila.) 



This species is easily distinguished from young of Cirratulus grandis 

 of the same size, which are frequently taken under stones at low water, 

 by having but two achaetous segments between the peristomium and 

 first branchial segment. It bears a close superficial resemblance to 

 Cirrhatuhis fragilis Leidy, but differs decidedly in that the latter is 

 described and figured as having bifid spines, only one apodous pre- 

 branchial segment, and the branchiae beginning on the second setiger- 

 ous segment. The species recorded under the name Cirrhinereis 

 fragilis Quatrefages as having been dredged in Vineyard Sound, and 

 considered by Verrill to be identical with C. fragilis Leidy, is probably 

 the species here described. 

 Amphitrite attenuata sp. nov. 



Form slender, clavate, slightly swollen in the anterior thoracic 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



region, slender and tapering beliind. Lengtli 30 mm., diameter nearly 

 2 mm. at inflated part of thorax. Number of somites 80, IV- 

 XXVIII setigerous. 



Prostomium broad and depressed at the base, produced forward into 

 a rather thick, simple lip, broadly rounded, entire and usually Clu•^■ed 

 u]iward at the anterior margin, little folded about the mouth laterally 

 and not meeting the lower lip ; tentaculiferous ridge in contact with the 

 lateral ends of the lip but separated from it bj' a slight notch, arched 

 over the doi-sum of the prostomium posteriorly and bearing in a con- 

 tinuous series about 30 coarse tentacles about one-half the length of 

 the body. No eyes visible. 



Mouth large, bounded below by a ventral lip which is divided by a 

 transverse furrow into an inflated internal portion and a flat external 

 portion, which is very broad and extends laterally be}'ond, but does 

 not touch the upper lip. Peristomimn a short, simple ring dorsally, 

 expanded ventrally to form the lower lip. ."^omite II as long as the 

 prostomiimi and ventral lip combined, its anterior margin without a 

 true^collar or lateral wings, but slightly jiroduced as a free rim. Thora- 

 cic region distinctly segmented, the furrow complete and well defined; 

 tlorsal region most inflated at X-XII, thence gradually tapered to the 

 abdomen. Abdomen attenuated, nearly quadrate in section, the 

 dorsiun only rounded; the segments becoming very short Ijut all dis- 

 tinctly biarmulated, the posterior borders wider and somewhat project- 

 ing. Pygidium a simple, rugous ring. 



Ventral plates 1-i (II-X\') all. except the first, sharply defined but 

 in contact with one another; the anterior ones rectangular, 2-4 times 

 as broad as long, the la-st fom- elliptical and one and one-half time.s to 

 twice a-s broad as long. Posterior to the ventral plates a ventral 

 groove with a raised neural line continues to the posterior end. 



Gills (fig. 15) three pairs, on II, III and IV, decreasing in size from 

 before backwards, all small; when fully extended the first not more 

 than one-half the thoracic diameter, each with a short trunk dividing 

 near the base into 2-4 main branches, each of which then dichotomizes, 

 usually three times and terminates in slender, tapering twigs. 



Setigerous papillae begin on IV just beneath the last giU, and are 

 represented in a corresponding position on III by a minute achjetous, 

 knob-like papilla. Anteriorly they are prominent and at a high level; 

 posteriorly they shift ventrad and become smaller. First torus on V, 

 about one-half as long as the longest on XII, and one-sixth or one- 

 seventh the body circumference. First five tori separated ventrally 

 bv about three times their length, those on XII by an interval about 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. 



equal to their length and succeeding ones by a less distance. Pos- 

 terior to the region of ventral plates they become more elevated and 

 prominent, but, though assuming a lappet-form, they never become 

 largely free, even on posterior abdominal segments. 



The characteristic setae arise from short vertical lines in tufts of 

 about a dozen arranged in double series. They (fig. 16) have remark- 

 ably broad limbi, those of the posterior row being shorter than and 

 half again as broad as the one figm-ed; the very slender and much 

 attenuated tip is very long, and the fringe nearly obsolete and confined 

 to the outer end on the long setae, but better developed, though 

 exceedingly delicate, on the short ones. 



Uncini occur in single series pointing forward on V-X, in double 

 series alternating in position and facing each other on XI-XXVIII, 

 then again in single series to the end ; there are about thirty-five on V, 

 sixty on X and XI, thirty-six on XVIII and twenty on L. They are 

 nearly colorless, with short, strongly convex bases deeply notched in 

 front, the beak stout, the crest of four transverse rows of 3-9 teeth 

 antl the guard short and broad (fig. 17). 



Color pale reddish salmon, deepest anteriorly, tentacles flesh color. 



This species has been taken only on the piles of the New York Yacht 

 Club wharf in Vineyard Haven, where it occurs sparingly below low 

 water among Cynthia and Arnarascium; lives in small mud tubes and 

 breeds in early July. 



ExPL.iNATION OF PlATE XIX. 



Arabella spinijera — figs. 1 to 7. 



Fig. 1. — Ventral view of maxillx, the accessory jaws slightly turned by 

 pressure. X 56. 



Fig. 2. — Dorsal \'iew of mandibles. X 56. 



Fig. 3. — Outline of parapocUuin III. posterior aspect. X 56. 



Fig. 4. — Anterior \'iew of parapodium X. X 56. 



Fig. 5. — Distal ends of the two acicula. X 250. 



Fig. 6. — Profile view of a moderately elongated seta from X. X 250. 



Fig. 7. — Face view of a short subacicular seta from X. X 250. 

 Praxillella tricirrata — figs. 8-12. 



Fig. 8. — Pygidium and caudal achcetous segments X 9 



Fig. 9. — Slender capillary seta from XI. X 2.50. 



Fig. 10. — Bipinnate capillary seta from XL X 440. 



Fig. 11. — An entire crochet from XI. X 82. 



Fig. 12.— End of crochet. X 360. 

 Cirratulus parvus — figs. 13 and 14. 



Fig. 13. — Anterior end showing the brancliia; and branchiiil cirri. X 24 



Fig. 14. — A tuft of notopodial cirri from the middle region. X 250. 

 Amphitrite attenuata — figs. 15 to 17 



Fig. 15.— First gill of the left side. X 24. 



Fig. 16. — A thoracic seta in J view. X 360 



Fig. 17. — A thoracic uncinus. X 360. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



December 4. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Fifty-one persons present. 



The death of Robert P. Morton, a member, December 1, 1906, was 

 annoimced. 



Messrs. George and William S. Vaux, Jr., made a report on 

 their studies of the glaciers of the Canadian Rockies and the Selkirks, 

 supplementaiy to the communication of April 17. The two papers 

 will be combined and published later. 



December 18. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-seven persons present. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 



34 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



SOME NEW AND LITTLE-KNOWN PEECOID FISHES. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



In this paper I give an annotated list of tlie more generalized percoid 

 fishes of special interest to be found in the collections of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Other papers dealing with remain- 

 ing families are expected to follow. 



Owing to the more general acceptance of the view among naturalists 

 that the first species under a genus be considered the type, I abandon 

 the process of elimination. Cases only apply where no type is desig- 

 nated or tautonomy is not inferred. Further I shall retain words 

 different only etymologically, though with a strict adherence to the 

 original orthography, even when erroneous, provided there is no 

 evidence contrary. 



DULEID.ffi. 



This name supersedes Kuhliidce, as Kuhlia Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1861, p. 48 (type Perca ciliata Cuvier specified = Centro'poinus 

 rupestris Lac^pede), is superseded by Dales Cuvier, R^gne Animal, 

 Ed. 2, II, 1829, p. 147 (type Centropomus rupestris Lac^pede by first 

 species). 

 Dules marginatui boninensis subsp. nov. Fig. 1. 



Head 3; depth 2^; D. X, 11 ; A. Ill, 12; P. i, 13; V. I, 5; scales 50 in 

 lateral line to base of caudal, and several more on latter; 6 scales 

 obliquely back from origin of spinous dorsal to lateral line; about 13 

 scales between origin of spinous anal in a vertical series to lateral line ; 

 width of head 2 in its length ; depth of head over posterior margin of 

 pupil about 1^; mandible 2^; fifth dorsal spine If; first dorsal ray l-ff; 

 third anal spine 2^; first anal ray 2 ; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 2| ; pectoral 1^ ; ventral If ; ventral spine 2^ ; snout 4 in head measured 

 from tip of upper jaw; eye 3; maxillary 2| ; interorbital space 3f. 



Body compressed, rather deep, lower profile a little more evenly 

 convex than upper, and greatest depth falling about midway in post- 

 ventral region. Back but slightly elevated, and with but a slight keel 

 a short distance in front of spinous dorsal, otherwise edges of body 

 rounded. Caudal peduncle compressed, its least depth about 1} in 

 its length. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



511 



Head rather large, compressed, upper profile nearly straight from 

 tip of snout to origin of spinous dorsal, and lower a little more inclined 

 and convex. Snout rather short, its length about J its width, and 



c «^^ 





Fig. 1. — Dules marginatus boninensis Fowler. (T\'pe.) 



rather truncate in front. Eye rather large, roimded, high and anterior, 

 or posterior margin of pupil about midway in length of head. ]\Iouth 

 inclined, moderate, opening superiorly, and with mandible protruding 

 in front. Maxillary narrow, free for about half its length, and its 

 distal expansion about f diameter of pupil. Teeth in jaws rather 

 small, in bands. A'omer and palatines with patches of minute teeth. 

 Tongue rather narrow, edentulous, pointed, and free in front. Buccal 

 membranes rather narrow. NostrUs close together, superolateral, 

 and much nearer front of eye than tip of snout. Interorbital space a 

 little broad, slightly convex, and with frontal ridges little prominent. 

 Margin of preorbital dentate. Lower margin of preopercle finely 

 dentate, and posterior margin entire. Opercle with 2 flat backwardly 

 directed pointed spines, well separated, and lower larger. Supra- 

 scapula with several rather coarse serratiues. 



Gill-opening extending forward about opposite front margin of 

 orbit. Gill-rakers lO-t-21, lanceolate, slender, finely asperous inside, 

 and longest about * of orbit. Gill-filaments a trifle less than diameter 

 of pupU. Isthmus narrowly compressed, and ■nith a median groove. 



Scales finely ctenoid, above lateral line in series parallel with its 

 course, below in horizontal series, along bases of vertical fins small and 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



crowded, and in about 4 series on cheek. Lateral line of simple tubes, 

 and concurrent with dorsal profile. 



Origin of spinous dorsal behind that of ventral, spines graduated 

 from fifth, though fourth and sixth subequal, and margin of fin deeply 

 notched. Last dorsal spine longer than second, though shorter than 

 third. Rayed dorsal begins about midway between origin of pectoral 

 and base of caudal, highest from first ray, though without lobe. Origin 

 of spinous anal falling about opposite origin of rayed dorsal, third 

 spine longest, and rayed fin similar to rayed dorsal. Caudal deeply 

 emarginate, lobes pointed. Pectoral short, reaching about | of space 

 to anal. Ventral inserted behind origin of pectoral, and reaching a 

 little over f of space to origin of spinous anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brown, back slightly leaden, and lower surface 

 paler. Fins all plain pale brownish, margins of dorsals, and caudal 

 posteriorly, slightly dusky. Iris brassy-yeUow. 



Length 5J inches. 



Type, No. 11,556, A. N. S. P. Bonin Islands, between lat. 26° 30' 

 and 27° 44' N. and long. 140° and 143° E., in the North Pacific. Smith- 

 sonian Institution (No. 347). 



This form is apparently closely related to Dules marginatus Cuvier. 

 It differs from Tahiti examples of that species, however, in having 

 more scales in the lateral line. In this respect it agrees with Hawaiian 

 and Tahiti examples of Dules mato Lesson, though the latter differs 

 principally in having more gill-rakers. Examples of Dules rwpestris 

 (Lac^pede) from Samoa and Tahiti have the caudal but slightly emar- 

 ginate. 



(Named for the Bonin Islands.) 



BOULENGERINA subgen. nov. 

 Type Dules mato Lesson. 



Gill-rakers more numerous than in subgenus Dules. Boulengerina 

 has 24 to 28 on the lower part of the first arch, while Dules has 16 to 20. 



The specific name of the typical species dates from Dules mato 

 Lesson, Voij. Aul. Mond. Coquille, Zool., Ill, 1830 (March 22, 1828), 

 p. 223, thus having priority over Dules nialo Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. 

 Poiss., VII, 1831, p. 360. Kuhlia nialo now in use must thus give 

 way to Dules mato. 



(Named for Dr. George A. Boulenger, of the British Museum, well 

 known among naturalists for many excellent works relative to the 

 lower vertebrates.) 




1906.] NATXJEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



MICROPTERID^. 



This name supersedes Centrarchidce as Centrarchus Cuvier, Hist. Nat. 

 Poiss., Ill, 1S29, p. 62 (type Cychla cenea Le Sueur by first species = 

 Bodianus rupestris Rafinesque), and is therefore a synonym of Am- 

 bloplites Rafinesque. This leaves Eucerdrarchus GiU, Amer. Joum. 

 Set. Art., XXXVII, 1864, p. 93 (type Labrus irideus Lac6pede = 

 Labrus macropterus Lacepede) as the proper name for the roimd bass, 

 with the subfamily name changed from CentrarchincB to Eucentrarchinoe. 

 Therefore as Micropterus Lacepede is the oldest genus in this family 

 the above name may be framed for it. 



I have also examined Elassoma zonatum Jordan. Elassoma probably 

 represents a distinct family, as has been contended. 



Fomozis annularis Rafinesque. 



Sedalia and St. Joseph, Mo. (Drs. D. S. Jordan and S. E. Meek) ; 

 Vndte River, Ark. (Drs. D. S. Jordan and C. H. Gilbert) ; Leaven- 

 worth, Kan. (E. D. Cope). Both this and the next show some 

 variation. 



Pomoxis sparoides (LacdpMe). 



Davenport, la. (Dr. S. E. ^leek); lower James River, Va. (E. D. 

 Cope); Lake Hiu-on (E. D. Cope) ; Leavenworth, Kan. (E. D. Cope); 

 Sandusky, 0. (Smiths. Inst.); South Carolina (Dr. J. E. Holbrook); 

 New Orleans, La. (J. M. Florat) ; Neuse River, N. C. (E. D. Cope). 



Euoentrarohus macropterus (Lac^p^de). 



North Carolina (U. S. N. Mus.); South CaroUna (Dr. Blanding); 

 Bayport, Fla. (E. D. Cope). 



Ambloplites rupestris (Rafinesque). 



Richmond, Miami and Wabash Rivers, Ind. (E. D. Cope); Brook 

 River and Michigan City (E. D. Cope), and Fort Dodge, la. (Dr. S. E. 

 Meek): Detroit, Mich.? (E. D. Cope); Lake Superior (Dr. J. H. Slack); 

 Wisconsin (Smiths. Inst.); Blue River, Ind. (E. D. Cope); Holston 

 and lower James Rivers, Va. (E. D . Cope) ; Cumberland River, 

 Tenn. (E. D. Cope) ; French Broad and Yadkin Rivers, N. C. (E. D. 

 Cope); Lake George, N. Y. (W. S. Vaux); Texas (Dr. S. W. Wood- 

 house). 

 Ambloplites rupestris oavifrons (Cope). Fig. 2. 



Ambloplites carijrons Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., VI, 186(>-69 

 (December, 1868), p. 217. Tj-pe, No. 12,803, A. N. S. P. Headwaters 

 of the Roanoke River, Montgomery county, Va. E. D. Cope. 



Width of head 2| in its length; interorbital space 4^ in head, meas- 

 ured from tip of upper jaw. Lips rather fleshy laterally. Rami of 

 mandible well elevated inside mouth. Teeth small, curved, pointed, a 




514 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



little irregular, and in bands in jaws. Vomerine teeth smaller, in an 

 obtuse-shaped patch, and a narrow band on each palatine. Tongue 

 rather thick, broad, rounded, and well free. A patch of small asperi- 

 ties on tongue. Interorbital space a little convex. A rather tren- 

 chant keel from occiput to origin of spinous dorsal. Gill-opening for- 

 ward opposite front rim of pupil. Rakers iv, 1 + 6, vii, large, robust, 

 and a httle longer than filaments. Scales small and crowded on occi- 







fp>/.'^j;^.<v'^ 



Fig. 2. — Ambloplites rupestris cavifrons (Cope). (Type of AmblopUtes cavifrons 



Cope.) 



put, predorsal region and thorax. Vent a little nearer tip of ventral 

 spine than origin of spinous anal. In alcohol dull brown, more or less 

 uniform on head and trunk, and fins paler. Faint traces of horizontal 

 streaks following in series of scales. Very indistinct clouded mottlings 

 on vertical fins. A brownish opercular spot. Iris dull brassy-silvery. 

 Length 3 inches. Type. 



Arohoplites interruptus (Girard). 



Centrarchus interruptus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1S54, p. 129. 

 Cotypes, Nos. 13,430 (type) to 13,433, A. N. S. P. Sacramento River, 

 Cal. Dr. A. L. Heermann. Coll. Smiths. Inst. 



Another from same locality (U. S. F. Com.); San Joaquin River, 

 Cal. (Dr. Newberry). 




1906.] NATITRAL SCTENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515- 



Chaenobryttus gulosns (Cuvier). 



Lepomis gillii Cope, Journ. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., VI, 1866-69 (December, 

 1868), pp. 222, 225. Tj-pe, Xo. 12,789, A. N. S. P. Branch of Tuckahoe 

 Creek, in the bottoms of James River, twelve miles above Richmond. E. 

 D. Cope. 



Lepomis charybdis Cope, I.e., pp. 223, 224, was based on CaUiurus melanops 

 Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1857, p. 200, from fresh waters of 

 Texas. 



One example taken from the stomach of an alligator from Taylor's 

 Creek, Lake Okeechobee, Fla. (Prof. A. Heilprin) ; Volusia, Fla. (E. D. 

 Cope); Neuse and Roanoke Rivers, X. C. (E. D. Cope); ^lobile, Ala. 

 (Mus. Comp. ZooL); San Diego, in Duval comity, Tex. (E. D. Cope); 

 Indiana (E. D. Cope). 



EnneacantliQS gloriosus (Holbrook). 



Pomotis guttalm Morris, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1859, p. 3. T^•pe, No. 



22,598, A. N. S. P. "\'icinity of Philadelpliia. Dr. J. Cheston Moiris . 

 Hemiopliies simulans Cope, Journ. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., VI, 1866-69 



(December, 1868), p. 217, PI. 22, fig. 7. Tj-pe, Xo. 13.449, A. N. S. P. 



Slow waters of Tuckahoe Creek, wliich enters the James River above 



Richmond, Virginia. E. D. Cope. 



Dr. Boulenger confuses this species with the next in Cat. Fish. Brit. 

 Mus., Ed. 2, 1, 1895, p. 19, as Apomotis obesus. 



Neuces River, N. C, and lower James River, Va. (E. D. Cope). 



Enneacantlms obesus (Girard). 



Volusia, Fla. (E. D. Cope), and Concord, Mass. (Dr. J. H. Slack). 

 One of the examples on which Morris based his Pomotis guttatus is this 

 species, however, as the name and intention are apparently to indicate 

 the preceding species, it may be restricted to the same. 



Apomotis cyanellus (Rafinesque). 



Bryttus signijer Girard. Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1S57, p. 201. Cotype, 

 No. 13,187, A. X.S. P. Rio Medina, Texas. Dr. C. B. Kennerlv. Smiths. 

 Inst. (Xo. 422). 



BniHus mineopas Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 1865. p. 84. Cotypes. 

 Nos. 13,190 to 13,194, A. N. S. P. Minneopa, Minnesota. J. H. Slack. 



St. Joseph and Brownsville (Drs. D. S. Jordan and S. E.'Meek), James 

 River and Marshfield (Drs. C. H. Gilbert and S. E. Meek), and Green- 

 field, Mo. (Dr. S. E. Meek); Ames, la. (Dr. Meek); Fort RUey, Kan. 

 (Dr. W. A. Hanmiond); HicksvUle, O. (Dr. Meek) ; Blue River (E. D. 

 Cope) and Miami River, Ind. (E. D. Cope); Leavenworth, Kan. (E. 

 D. Cope) ; Archer county, Llano and Wichita Rivers, Tex. (E. D. Cope). 



Apomotis is retained generically as the median posterior partition of 

 the air-vessel is only slightly developed, while in the species of Lepomis 

 examined it is usually well developed forwards. 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Lepomis punotatns (Valencienses). 



Lepomis apiatus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., X^^I, 1S77-7S, p. 66. 

 Cot>-pes, Nos. 11,127 to 11,132, A. N. S. P. Volusia, Florida. E. D. 

 Cope. 



Caloosahatcliie River, Fla. (Prof. A. Heilprin). 



Lepomis anritas (Linnxus). 



A single example labeled "Roanoke River, Va., E. D. Cope," No. 

 13,058, A. N. S. P., may be typical of Lepomis ophthalmicus Cope, 

 Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., \^, 1866-69 (December, 1868), pp. 223, 

 224. It would agree in length if the caudal were not included, though 

 the measurements of the depth of the body at the origin of the soft 

 dorsal and at the base of the fifth ray of this fin do not. 



Pomotis solis Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poi-ss., VII, 1831, p. 352, is 

 apparently a composite species based on examples from Lake Pon- 

 chartrain. La., and Philadelphia, Pa. Primarily it seems to be re- 

 stricted to the Louisianan form, as Dr. Jordan examined the types 

 from Philadelphia and pronounced them as probably identical with 

 Eupomotis gibbosus. Drs. Jordan and Evermann, in Bull. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., No. 47, I, 1896, p. 1001, place the Louisianan fish as a distinct 

 subspecies of L. auritus, stating that it has larger cheek scales, about 5 

 or 6 series, and a large dusky blotch on the last dorsal rays. Bollman, 

 in Rep. U. S. F. Com., 1888 (1892), p. 573, includes Lepomis mystacalis 

 Cope as a sj'nonym, and is followed by others, though from my own 

 examination of the types of this latter it is found to be identical with 

 Lepomis palladus Mitchill. That the Florida form is not appreciably 

 different upon comparison of alcoholic examples of L. auritus from 

 Bayport, Fla. (E. D. Cope); South Carolina (Dr. J. E. Holbrook); 

 Catawba and Yadkin Rivers, N. C. (E. D. Cope); Lake George, N. Y. 

 (W. S. Vaux), I am satisfied. The original account of Pomotis solis 

 is hardly complete enough for certainty of identification. 



lepomis megalotis (Rafinesque). Fig. 3. 



Lepomis peltastes Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70, pp. 



453, 454; Cotypes, Nos. 12,978 to 12,981, A. N. S. P. Huron River, 



Micliigan. Prof. .Alexander WincheU. 

 Lepomis haplognalhus Cope, I.e., XXII, 1885, p. 168. Cotj-pes, Nos. 18,888 



to 18,889, and 20,397 to 20,398, A. N. S. P. Monterey, Nuevo Leon, 



Mexico. E. D. Cope. 



This is a most variable species, both in color and structiue, especially 

 with reference to the opercular flap. It is possible that Lepomis 

 occidentalis Meek, Field Col. Mus. Pub. 65, Chicago, III, No. 6, 1902, 

 p. 118, PI. 29. and L. haplognalhus Cope may exliibit characters in 

 color to render them distinct races of L. 7negalotis. Certainly L. 

 haplognalhus, judged from the alcoholic types, cannot be distinguished 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



517 



from the very large series of specimens of L. megalotis, which covers 

 every variation. Dr. Meek's accounts do not leave it clear to me that 

 his L. occidentalis is really distinct. Besides L. megalotis Cope, I.e., XI, 

 1869-70, p. 452, examples representing L. nitidus Cope, I.e., p. 453, and 

 L. longispinis Cope, Proe. Acad. Nat. Sd. Phila., 1865, p. 83, have been 

 examined, and found to be this species. Llano River, Fort Worth, 

 Wichita River, upper Medina River and Dallas (E. D. Cope), Delaware 



Fig. 3. — Lepomis megalotis (Rafinesque). (Type of Lepomis haplognathus Cope.) 



Creek (Capt. Pope), Brazos River (Dr. Shumard), and Comanche 

 Creek, Tex. (Smiths. Inst.) ; Goodland, Ind. Ter. (Dr. S. E. Meek); 

 Eureka Springs (Drs. D. S. Jordan and C. H. Gilbert), Paragold (Dr. 

 Meek), Greenway (Dr. Jordan), and Fort Smith, Ark.; Brook River, 

 la. (E. D. Cope) ; Marshfield, Mo. (Drs. Gilbert and Meek) ; Leaven- 

 worth, Kan. (E. D. Cope); Racine, Wis. (U. S. Nat. Mus.); Detroit? 

 (E. D. Cope), Mich. (Dr. Pitcher); Wabash, Blue and Miami Rivers, 

 Ind. (E. D. Cope); Coal Creek, Tenn. (E. D. Cope); Thomasville, Ga. 

 (J. A. G. Rehn). 



Lepomis humilis (Girard). 



Brytlus tiumilis Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1857, p. 201. Cotjrpes, 

 Nos. 13.166 to 13,168 and 13,154, A. N. S. P. Sugar Loaf Creelv, .Arkansas. 

 H. B. Mollhausen. Smiths. Inst. (No. 428). 




518 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Bryttus oculatus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1865, p. 83. Cotypes, 

 Nos. 13,146 to 13,153, A. N. S. P. Lake Whittlesey, Minn. J. H. Slack. 



Lepomis anagallimis Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., VI, 1866-69 

 (December, 1868), p. 221. Type, No. 13,145, A. N. S. P. Leavenworth, 

 Kansas. Samuel H. Edpre. 



Arthur (Dr. S. E. Meek), and Fort Worth, Tex. (E. D. Cope); 

 Greenfield (Dr. Meek), Marshfield (Drs. C. H. Gilbert and S. E. Meek), 

 and St. Joseph, Mo.; Fort Riley, Kan. (Dr. W. A. Hammond). 



Lepomis maoroohirus Rafinesque. Fig. 4. 



Lepomis nephelus Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2) VI, 1866-69 

 (December, 1S68), p. 222. Type, No. 22,619, A. N. S. P. Kiskiminitas 

 River, West Pennsylvania. A. H. Guss. 



Width of head 2^ in its length ; interorbital space 3f in head measured 

 from tip of upper jaw. Edges of body mostly rounded and but slightly 

 trenchant just before origin of spinous dorsal. Head compressed with 

 sides flattened. Length of snout about f its width. Lips a little 



Fig. 4. — Lepomis macrochirus Rafinesque. (Tjrpe of Lepomis nephelus Cope.) 



flashy. Teeth rather coarse, pointed, conic, and in bands in jaws, 

 those on vomer smaller. No palatine teeth. Tongue smooth, rather 

 fleshy, a little pointed and free in front. Each ramus of mandible a 

 little elevated inside mouth. Interorbital space slightly convex. 

 Gill-opening forward to front margin of pupil. Rakers ii, 2 + 10, ii, 

 lanceolate, and about equal to filaments or \ of eye. An adnate scaly 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



tract between bases of ventrals. Vent about midway, or a little 

 behind, between tips of ventral spines and origin of spinous anal. 

 Color in alcohol faded brown, belh' and lower surface of body scarcely 

 paler. Fins all pale brown, scarcely darker towards edges. Opercular 

 blotch blackish-brown, in size about f of eye, and from opposite level 

 of latter a dull brownish shade extends from upper end of preopercular 

 margin to opercular blotch, increasing to its width in its course. Iris 

 warm brownish. Inside of gill-opening pale, opercular blotch appear- 

 ing equally blackish-brown as on outside. Length 4| inches. Type. 



Lepomis palladus (MitchiU). 



Lepomis longispinis Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1S65. p. 83. Co- 

 types, Nos. 16,562 to 16,564, A. N. S. P. From St. Louis to Southern 

 California. Dr. A. L. Heermann. 



Lepomis ardexiacus Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., VI, 1866-69 (Decem- 

 ber, 1868), p. 222. TjT^e, No. 13,106, A, N. S. P. Kisldminitas River, 

 Western Permsylvania. .\ddison R. Guss. 



Lepomis purpiirescens Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70, 

 pp. 453, 454. CotA'pes, Nos. 13,066 to 13,077, A. N. S. P. Tributary of 

 the Yadkin River in Roane county. North Carolina. E. D. Cope. 



Lepomis mystacalis Cope, Proc. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. Phila., XA'II, 1877-78, 

 p. 66. CotjTJes, Nos. 27,834 to 27,836, A. N. S. P, Volusia, Florida. E. 

 D, Cope. 



These do not differ, though they show about 48 scales, and all agree 

 with examples from Lake Okeechobee, Other examples from Volusia 

 differ, however, most strikingly in the short giU-rakers. One has 54 

 scales in the lateral line. Another agrees with the figure of Pomotis 

 elongatus Holbrook, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2) III, 1855-58 

 (May, 1855), p, 47, PL 5. 



Examples representing Pomotis speciosus Baird and Girard, Rep. 

 Expl. Sun: R. R. Miss. Pac, X, Fish., 1858, p. 23, PL 8, figs. 5-8; P. 

 fallax Girard, I.e., p. 27, PL 8, figs. 9-12, PL 9, figs. 5-12, PL 10, figs. 

 1-7, and Lepomis 7wtatus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 

 1869-70, p. 45.3, have been examined. This species is verj^ variable. 



French Broad River, N. C. (E. D. Cope) ; South Carolina (Dr. J. E. 

 Holbrook) ; Volusia and opposite mouth of St. Lucie River (E. D. Cope), 

 Caloosahatchie River, Fla. (Prof. A. Heilprin); Coal Creek, Tenn. 

 (E. D, Cope) ; Amana, la. (Dr. S. E. Meek) ; Leavenworth, Kan. (E. D. 

 Cope); Greenway, Ark. (Dr. Meek); Johnson's Fork of the Llano, 

 Wichita River and San Diego (E, D. Cope), Rio Seco (Dr. Kennerly) 

 and Delaware Creek, Tex. (Capt. Pope); Detroit?, Mich. (E. D. Cope); 

 James River at Marshfield, Mo. (Drs. C. H. Gilbert and S. E. Meek); 

 Quincy, 111.; Blue River, Ind, (E. D. Cope). 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Eupomotia holbroookii (Valenciennes). 



Xystroplites longitnanus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1877-78i 

 p. 67. Cotypes, Nos. 30,918 to 30,920, A. N. S. P. Volusia. Florida. E. 

 D. Cope. 



Dr. Jordan examined Pomotis holbroockii Valenciennes in the Paris 



Museum, and expressed the opinion that it is identical with P. spcciosus 



Holbrook. As the original account of the former is imperfect I accept 



this view provisionally. The differences between Holbrook's figure 



and the examples before me are certainly not specific. The pectoral 



of the former is but little shorter than the head. The specific name 



is here adopted from the original. 



Enpomotis gibbosus (Linnaeus). 



Mount Desert, Me. (Dr. H. C. Chapman) ; Lake George, N. Y. (W. S. 

 Vaux); Sandusky, 0. (Smiths. Inst.); Michigan (E. D. Cope); lower 

 James River, Va. (E. D. Cope); Catawba, French Broad and Yadkin 

 Rivers, N. C. (E. D. Cope). 



Mioropterus dolomien Lac^pMe. 



Lake George, N. Y. (W. S. Vaux) ; Roanoke River, Va. (E. D. Cope) ; 

 Fort Smith, Ark.; Wlaeatland and Davenport (Dr. S. E. Meek), and 

 Brook River, la. (E. D. Cope) ; Miami River, Ind. (E. D. Cope) ; French 

 Broad River, N. C. (E. D. Cope) ; Coal Creek, Tenn. (E. D. Cope) ; 

 Fort Worth and Fort Johnson, Tex. (E. D. Cope). 



Mioropterus salmoides (Lac^pMe). 



Lake Erie (Smiths. Inst.); Dr. J. Cheston Morris; Michigan (E. D. 

 Cope) ; Davenport, la. (Dr. S. E. Meek) ; Nickajack Cave and Wabash 

 River, Ind. (E. D. Cope); Norfolk (Smiths. Inst.) and lower James 

 River, Va. (E. D. Cope) ; Yadkin, Catawba and French Broad Rivers, 

 N. C. (E. D. Cope) ; Coal Creek in Clinch basin, Tenn. (E. D. Cope) ; 

 South Carolina (Dr. Blanding); Bayport, Fla. (E. D. Cope); Indianola 

 to Neuces, Tex. (Capt. Pope). 



PEROID^. 



Centropomus luoioperca (Linnaeus). 



Northern Europe (Bonaparte Coll.). The type of Centropomus 

 Lac^pede is the present species, therefore the American robalos become 

 Oxylabrax, with the family name Oxylabracidce. 



Stizostedion vitreum (Mitchill). 



Michigan (E. D. Cope); French Broad River, N. C. (E. D. Cope). 



stizostedion canadense (Griffiths). 



North America (Bonaparte Coll.); Lake Erie (Dr. Watson). 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



Stizostedion oanadense boream (Girard). 

 Battle Ci-eek, la. (E. D. Cope). 



Perca fluviatilis Linnaeus. 



Italy (Bonaparte Coll.); Sweden (Prof. J. Kinberg). 



Peroa flavesoens (LinnaBus). 



Mount Desert, Me. (Dr. H. C. Chapman); Martha's Vineyard, Mass. 

 (Dr. J. H. Slack); Lake George, N. Y. (W. S. Yaux); Cold Pond, near 

 Charlestown, N. H. (Dr. Weber); Sparrow Lake, Ontario (C. P. Ray); 

 Sandusky, O. (Smiths. Inst.); Clear Lake, la. (Dr. S. E. Meek); Lake 

 Whittlesey, Minn. (Dr. J. H. Slack) ; Lake Erie (Dr. Watson) ; Potomac 

 River (Smiths. Inst.);Cliestertown (E. G. Yanatta), and North East, 

 in Cecil county, Md. (H. W. Fowler), j 



Peroina caprodes (Rafinesque). 



Perca (Percina) nebulosa Haldeman, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1842, p. 

 330. Tj-pe, No. 22,652, A. N. S. P. The Susqueharma. S. S. Haldeman. 



North America (Bonaparte Coll.) ; Holston River, Ya. (E. D. Cope) ; 

 South Fork of Cumberland River, Tenn. (E. D. Cope); Miami and 

 Wabash Rivers, Ind. (E. D. Cope) ; Ohio (U. S. Nat. JIus.) ; Fort Smith, 

 Ark. (Drs. D. S. Jordan and C. H. Gilbert); Marshfield and Carthage, 

 Mo. (Drs. GUbert and S. E. Meek) ; Dallas, Tex. (E. D. Cope). 



Percina caprodes zebra (Agassiz). 



Sparrow Lake, in Simcoe county, Ontario (C. P. Ray). 

 Hadropterus pbozooephalus (Nelson). 



Clinton, Mo. (Drs. D. S. Jordan and S. E. Meek). 



Hadropterus maorooephalus (Cope). 



Etheosloma nuwrocephalum Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. See. Pliila., (2) XIII, 

 1869, p. 400. Cotj-pes, Nos. 22,626 and 22,628, A. N. S. P. Youghio- 

 gheny River in Western Pennsylvania. E. D. Cope. 



Hadropterus aspro (Jordan). 



Giles county and Walker's Creek, Ya. (E. D. Cope); MiamiRiver, 

 Ind. (E. D. Cope) ; Hicksville, O. (Dr. S. E. Meek). 



Hadropterus peltatus (Cope). 



Etheostoma peltatum Stauffer, in Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 

 233. Type, No. 22,627, A. N. S. P. The Conestoga. Jacob Stauffer. 



Buck Creek, N. C. (E. D. Cope). 



Hypobomus aurantiaous (Cope). 



Cottogasier aurantiacus Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2) \1, 1869, p. 

 211, PI. 24, fig. 6. Cotj-pes, Xos. 13,789 (tj-pe) and 13,790, A. N. S. P. 

 Holston River, Virginia [according to label]. E. D. Cope. 



Cottogaster shumardi (Girard). 



Indiana (Dr. D. S. Jordan) ; Michigan (Prof. M. Miles). 




522 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Ulocentra stigmaea (Jordan). Fig. 5. 



sentra stigmaea (Jordan). Fig. 5. 

 Boleosoma stigmceum Jordan, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., 1876, p. 311. 

 CotjTDes. Nos. 20,645 to 20,648, A. N. S. P. Etowah River, Georgia. D. 

 S. Jordan. 



Fig. 5. — Ulocentra stigmoea (Jordan). (Cotype of Boleosoma stigmwum Jordan.) 



Diplesion blennioides (Rafinesque). 



Pileoma cymatogramma Abbott, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 1860, p. 327. 

 Tj-pe, No. 14,009, A. N. S. P. Without locahty. 



Hyostoma blennioperca Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2) VI, 1869, 

 pp. 214. 215. Cot>-pes, Nos. 14.004, 14,006 to 14,008, 14,020 to 14.025 

 and 14,026 (ti,-pe) to 14,035, .\. N. S. P. Tributaries of the Kanawha and 

 Holston. E. D. Cope. The t\-pe as here restricted is e\-identl3' the 

 largest in the collection and is from the Holston. 



Black River, 0. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) ; South Fork of Cumberland and 

 Clinch Rivers, Temi. (E. D. Cope); Miami and Richmond, Ind. (E. D. 

 Cope); French Broad River, N. C. (E. D. Cope); JoUet, lU. (J. H. 

 Ferris). 



Boleosoma nigrum (Raflnesque). 



Boleo.ioma obnf^tedi var. breripinnis Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1868, 

 p. 214. Cotype,?, Nos. 25,563 (type) to 22,567, A. N. S. P. Kiskiminitas 

 River, Penna. E. D. Cope. In Proc. Amer. PhUos. Soc. Phila., XI, 

 1871, p. 270, Cope raises this to the rank of a full species. 



Hicksville, 0. (Dr. S. E. Meek); Wabash River and Richmond, Ind. 

 (E. D. Cope); Sinking Creek and Holston River, Va. (E. D. Cope); 

 St. Josephs and Grosse Isle, Mich. (E. D. Cope); Marshfield, Carthage 

 and James River, JIo. (Drs. C. H. Gilbert and S. E. Meek); Belmond 

 and Anamosa (Dr. Meek), and Chariton, la. (Drs. D. S. Jordan and 

 S. E. Meek); Platte River at Fort Kearney, Neb.; Big Creek at 

 Fort Hayes, Kan. 



Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi (Storer). 



Pcrca minima Haldeman, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., VIII, 1842, p. 330. 

 Tj-pe. No. 13,928, A. N. S. P. (A dried skin poorly preserved.) The 

 Susquehanna. S. S. Haldeman. 



I am vuiable to distinguish Potomac River examples (Dr. Pickering) 

 as Aiiina effulgens Girard. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



523 



Patapsco River at Baltimore (H. W. Fowler); Elk Creek (A. H. 

 Grosh and H. W. Fowler) and Stony Creek, in Cecil county, Md. (T. D. 

 Keim and H. W. Fowler) ; Sussex county, Del. (E. D. Cope) ; lower 

 Delaware River (Dr. C. Arrott). 



Fig. 6. — Boleosoma nigrum maculaticeps (Cope). (T)'pe of Boleosoma macu- 



laticeps Cope.) 



Boleosoma nigrum maculaticeps (Cope). Fig. 6. 



Boleosoma maculaticeps Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1871 

 (January 7, 1S70), p. 269. Cotypes, No. 13,862 (type) to 13,876, A. N. S. P. 

 tipper waters of the Catawba River, N. Carolina. E. D. Cope. 



Also an example from the Yadkin River, N. C. E. D. Cope. 



Boleosoma effulgens Cope, I.e., p. 26S, although considered distinct 

 by Cope, does not show any very striking points of difference according 

 to this account. Perhaps 6 scales below the lateral line is rehable. 



'j?rr)W' 



M 1 ) ) ) J I 1 I- 





Fig. 7. — Boleosoma nigrum mesceum (Cope). (Type of Poecilichthys mesceus Cope.) 



Boleosoma nigrum messeum (Cope). Fig. 7. 



Poecilichthys mesceus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 232. Type, 




524 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



No. 13,943, A. N. S. P. Platte River, near Fort Kearney, Neb. Dr. 

 Hammond. 



Cross-bars on dorsal and caudal indistinct and faded. 

 Boleosoma oamurum Forbes. 



Angelina River, Tex. (U. S. F. C). 

 Crystallaria asprella (Jordan). 



South Forli Ciuiiberland River, Tenn. (E. D. Cope); Grosse Isle, 

 Mich. (E. D. Cope). 

 Ammoorypta pellacida (Agassiz). 



Indiana (D. S. Jordan). 



Etheostoma zonale (Cope). Fig. 8. 



PoEcilichthys zonalis Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2) XII, 1S66-69 

 (December, 1868), p. 212. Cotvpes, Nos. 14,036 (type) to 14,038, A. N. 

 S. P. Holston River, Va. E. D. Cope. 





Fig. 8. — Etheostoma zonale (Cope). (Type of Pcecilichthys zonalis Cope.) 



Also many other examples from the above locality and the French 

 Broad River, N. C. (E. D. Cope). 



Etheostoma maoulatam (Kirtland). 



Pcecilichthys sanguifluus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70 

 (January 7, 1870), p. 264. Cotypes, Nos. 13,738 (type) to 13,744, A. N. 

 S. P. South Fork of Cumberland River, Tennessee. E. D. Cope. 



Etheostoma rufilineatum (Cope). Fig. 9. 



Pcecilichthys rufilineatus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70 

 (January 7, 1870), p. 267. Cotypes, Nos. 13,791 (t)-pe) to 13,798, A. N. 

 S. P. Warm Springs Creek, which flows into the French Broad River, in 

 Madison county. North Carolina. E. D. Cope. 



Etheostoma jessise (Jordan). 



Etowah River, Ga. (D. S. Jordan). 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 

 , t I I I I t-^-t 



"«s. 



X 



525 





Fig. 9. — Eiheosloma rufilineatum (Cope). (Tj-pe of PcBcilichthys rufilineattis 



Cope.) 



Etheostoma coernlenm Storer. 



Poecilosoma transversum Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S60, p. S26. 

 Cotj-pes, Nos. 13,810 (type) to 13,819, A. X. S. P. Lake Superior. 



Richmond. Ind. (E. D. Cope); Big Creek at Fort Hayes, Kan. (J. 

 Janeway) ; South Fork Cumberland River, Tenn. (E. D. Cope); Ann 

 Arbor. Mich. 



Etheostoma ooeruieum spectablle (.\gassiz). 



Marshfiekl, :\Io. (Drs. C. H. Gilbert and S. E. Meek); Sedalia, Mo. 

 (Drs. D. S. Jordan and S. E. Meek). 



Etheostoma ooeruieum lepidum (Baird and Girard). 



Bokosoma phlox Cope, Bull. 1'. S. Nat. Mus., No. 17, 1880, p. 30. Type, No. 

 20.447, A. N. S. P. Trinity River, near Fort Worth. E. D. Cope. 



Elmforlv at Saint Joe, Montague county, Tex. (E. D. Cope). 



Etheostoma flabellare Rafinesque. 



Sinking and Walker's Creeks, in Kanawha basin, Kanawha, Holston 

 and Roanoke Rivers, Va. (E. D. Cope) ; Catawba River, N. C. (E. D. 

 Cope); Richmond, Ind. (E. D. Cope); Grosse Isle, Mich. (E. D. Cope); 

 Postville, la. (Dr. S. E. Meek). 



Boleichthys fusiformis eroohrons (Cope). 

 Sussex county, Del. (E. D. Cope). 



Boleichthys fusiformis gracilis (Girardl. 

 Palestine, Tex. (E. D. Cope). 



Boleichthys fusiformis palustris (Gilbert;. 

 Indiana (E. D. Cope). 

 3.5 




526 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Uicropeica punotulata Putnam. 

 Indiana (E. D. Cope). 



Aspernlus asper (Linn»us). 



Rhone River, France (Bonaparte Coll.). 



Asperulus Klein, in Walbaum, Pet. Arted. Gen. Pisc, 1792, p. 584 

 (type Perca zingcl Linnseiis only species mentioned), has priority over 

 ' Zingel Cloquet, Did. Sci. Nat., IX, 1817, p. 240 (type Perca zingel 

 Linnaeus first species). 



Asperulus zingel (Linnaeus). 



Danube River (Bonaparte Coll.), and also evidently those from E. D. 

 Cope. 



Aceiina oernua (Linnaeus). 



Sweden (Prof. J. Kinberg); Europe (Bonaparte Coll.). 



Gymnooephalns schrsetser (Linnseus). 



Danube?, Europe (Bonaparte CoU.). 



APOGONID.^. 



Foa brachygramma (Jenldns). 



Hawaiian Islands (Dr. J. K. Townsend; Dr. William H. Jones). 



Apogon imberbis (Linnaeus). 



The example recorded by Cope from Newport, R. I., as Apogonich- 

 thys americanus differs a little from ^lediterranean examples in the 

 Bonaparte Coll. in having a shorter pectoral, though this may be 

 associated with youth as it only measures 3^ inches. In this respect 

 however it approaches Castelnau's figure, which was based on an 

 example nearlj' 4 inches long, equal in size to m}' Mediterranean ones. 

 The Newport specimen shows: Head 2J; depth 2*; snout 4^ in head; 

 eye 3; maxillary 2; interorbital space 4^: pectoral If; maxillarj- reach- 

 ing posterior margin of pupil ; margin of preopercle -nith minute obso- 

 lete serrse; giU-rakers ii, 2+9, iii, and longest about f of eye; dark 

 brownish dustings behind eye and on opercle above; a bro'miish blotch 

 about as large as pupil on caudal peduncle at base of caudal; edges of 

 rayed dorsal and upper and lower edges of caudal tinted dusky. 



This and the following are members of the subgenus Apogon, dis- 

 tinguished by the presence of YI spines in the first dorsal, and the 

 anterior ridge of the preopercle entne. 



Apogon retrosella (GiU). 



An example from J. A. McNeO, taken at Panama, from which locality 

 the species has not been obtained before. It has a deep brown saddle 

 on back at base of rayed dorsal, and another larger and obscure one 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



527 



on the caudal peduncle postel■iorlJ^ Also a few dusky dots on post- 

 ocular region. Opercle silvery. 

 Apogon maonliferus Garrett. 



Two examples from the Hawaiian Islands. Coll. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



This species belongs to subgenus Ostorhinchus Lacepede, distinguished 

 from the previous subgenus chiefly by the presence of "\r[I spines 

 in the first dorsal. Other species which I have examined are Suma- 

 tran examples of A. evanidus Fowler, .-1. hyalosoma Bleeker and A. 

 novemfasciatus Cuvier, Japanese examples of A. notatus (Houttuyn), 

 A. lineatus Schlegel, A. semilineatus Schlegel and A. niger Steindachner. 

 A. snyderi Jordan and Evermann and A. menesenius Jenkins from the 

 Hawaiian Islands belong to subgenus Pristiapogon Klunzinger, dis- 

 tinguished by having both preopercular ridges serrate. 



ASTRAPOGON subgen. nov. 

 Tj'pe Apogonichthys slellatus Cope. 



Distinguished from subgenus Apogonichthys Bleeker, Nat. Tijds. 

 Ned. Ind., VII, 18-54. pp. 312, 321 (type Apogonichthys perdix Bleeker), 

 by the long ventrals, which reach well be3-ond the front of the anal. 



{^AazpoVj star; a, without; -oy'w^, beard.) 



Fig 10. — Apogonichthys stellatus Cope. (Tj'pe.) 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Apogonichthys stellatus Cope. Fig. 10. 



Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., (2) XIII, 1866, p. 400. Nos. 12,677 (type) 

 and 12,678, A. N. S. P., cotypes. New Providence, Bahamas. Dr. H. 

 C. Wood. 



The larger example may be selected as the type. It has interorbital 

 space 4^ in head, and flattened. Gill-rakers ii, 2 + 9, ii, slender and 

 longest y of eye. Length 2 inches. 



Both have D. VI. 



AMBASSIDJE. 

 Ambassis ranga (Hamilton). 



Three examples from India. Dr. M. Burrough. 



I have also examined Scombrops boops (Houttuyn) from Japan. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



MOLLUSCA OF THE OZARKIAN FAUNA. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY AND JAMES H. FERRISS. 



In the midst of the valley of the greatest river of the continent the 

 Ozark Mountains stand above the plain. On the east and south they 

 are bordered by lowlands scarcely a hundred feet above sea level, and 

 westward the great plains stretch to the foothills of the Rockies. The 

 Ozarks rise to no considerable height, the highest point, Magazine 

 Mountain, in Logan Co., Ark. , attaining to 2,823 feet; but the rough 

 topography, in strong contrast with that of surrounding regions, 

 affords conditions favoring the evolution of special forms, species or 

 races, adapted to these conditions. Many of these forms have prob- 

 ably been evolved just where we now find them, and where they are in 

 a measure isolated by the absence or rarity of similar haunts in the 

 lower and more level country surrounding the mountainous area. 



Some aquatic forms, Unionida and Pleuroceratida, are also peculiar 

 to the Ozark region, though in the main Mississippian species rule. 



During the greater part of March and April, 1903, the authors col- 

 lected at numerous places in the w^estern Ozarks, in southwestern Mis- 

 souri, western Arkansas, and Indian Territory, the localities selected 

 being supplemental to those worked by Mr. Ferriss in 1900 and 1901. 

 The results of our work are herein dealt with. 



I. Faunal Relations of the Ozark Region. 



The Alleghanian (= Transition of Merriam), Carolinian (= humid 

 Upper Austral) and Austroriparian ( = humid Lower Austral) zones as 

 mapped by Dr. Merriam,' in eastern North Anierica, are probably 

 reflected as clearly in land molluscan distribution as in that of verte- 

 brates and plants, though of coiu-se there is broad overlapping of 

 faunas, and the smaller details of the zonal limits remain to be deter- 

 mined by diligent local work. In the Northern States, this local 

 amplification may well be based upon Dr. Merriam's map; but in the 

 Southern Appalachian system some significant discrepancies appear 

 when the land mollusks are compared with vertebrate distribution. 



' Life Zones and Crop Zones of the United States, Bulletin No. 10, U. S. De- 

 partment of .Agriculture, Division of Biological Survey, 1898. 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



The Boreal (Canadian) areas mapped by Merriam in Kentucky, 

 Tennessee and North Carolina have for molliisca no faunal connection 

 with or resemblance to the Canadian zone fauna of the northern 

 mountains and Canada. There is no evidence that the northern fauna 

 invaded these heights during the Ice Age, but much evidence to the 

 contrary.^ Had such an incursion taken place, it seems hardly con- 

 ceivable that no Vitrina, PiipiUa, Vertigo or northern Zonitidce should 

 remain to tell the tale. A certain ill-defined zonal distribution depend- 

 ent on elevation may be traced, the mountain tops having a poorer 

 fauna than the lower levels, with dwarfed races of some species and a 

 few special species; but the zoological affinities of the forms are in the 

 main with those of the lower coves, not with snails of higher latitudes. 



This illustrates what has been recognized by a few zoologists work- 

 ing in other departments, that transcontinental "life-zones" have no 

 necessary connection with the larger facts of faunal distribution, but 

 define secondary divisions, parallel, so to speak, all over the world. 

 For instance equal zones in the southern Alleghanies and the Rocky 

 Mountains might be spoken of as "physically homologous," but not 

 faunally so. 



In eastern North America we have, leaving the Floridian tropical 

 element out of the account, two faunas of inland mollusca, developed 

 in diverse areas: (1) the Boreal fauna, consisting of Holarctic species 

 or genera, such as Vitrina, Zonitoides, Enconulus, Acanthinula, Val- 

 lonia, Pupilla, Punctum, Sphyradium, Lymncea, etc., which apparently 

 had their rise in the north, and (2) the Appalachian fauna, consisting 

 of forms characteristic of the eastern United States, such as the 

 Mesodon, Triodopsis and Stenotrema groups, Omphalina, Vitrini- 

 zonites, Paravitrea, Gastrodonta, the alternata group of Pyramidxda, 

 Helicodiscus, etc. From what we know of the Pliocene land shells, 

 and those of the interglacial and post-glacial Loess, it is clear that these 

 faunas must have been already as distinct at the close of the Pliocene 

 as at present; and in the case of the Appalachian fauna, we have 

 every reason to believe that its ancestors occupied eastern North 

 America during tertiary time, and how much farther back no man can 

 say.' 



' See in this connection, Pilsbry, Mollusca of the Great Smoky Mountains, 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, pp. 110-150, and Walker and Pilsbry, Mollusca of the 

 Mt. Mitchell Region, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1902, pp. 413-442. 



' The boreal and southern elements in the east American fauna were fully 

 recognized by Mr. ^\^ G. Binney many years ago. Cf. also Charles C. Adams, 

 Southeastern United States as a centre of geographical distribution of flora and 

 fauna. Biological Bnlletin III, pp. 115-131, 1902. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



From the investigations made by the authors and their friends, it is 

 obvious that there was in the East no extensive glacial recession 

 of the snail fauna southward beyond the border of the ice sheet. It 

 seems likely that the northern fauna of Appalachian origin was largely 

 wiped out, and the survivors crowded with the boreal forms in a band 

 along the States bordering the glaciated area. This comparatively 

 recent concentration of the snail population southward gives at first the 

 impression that the radiation of this element of our fauna was from 

 the southeast, yet dimng the mild tertiary period favorable condi- 

 tions certainly existed much farther north than at present, and 

 there seems no more reason to postulate a southeastern than a north- 

 eastern tertiary radiation. 



In the more elevated Rocky Jlountain region there was obviously a 

 more extensive glacial recession. Boreal genera and species were 

 piLshed at least as far as the Mexican boundary, where they still sur- 

 vive at considerable altitudes. 



The Appalachian types of land snails now extend over all of the Alle- 

 ghanian, Carolinian and Austroriparian zones; but within this area we 

 must recognize several strongly individualized faunas characterizing 

 mountainous tracts. These are as follows: 



I. The Austro-Appalachian fauna, comprising the eastern division of 

 the Appalachian Mountains east of the valley of East Tennessee chiefly 

 in North Carolina, south to Georgia. It is bounded on the north in 

 Virginia anil West Virginia by an Alleghanian zone fauna on the high- 

 est ridges and a normal Carolinian at lower levels. The Austro- 

 Appalachian fauna has been explored by Dr. Rugel, Mrs. George 

 Andrews, ilr. Wetherby, Messrs. Walker, Sargent, Qapp, and the 

 present authors. It is mapped as Transition and Boreal in Dr. 

 Merriam's Life Zone map of 1897. 



II. The Cumherlandian fauna, including the western division of the 

 Appalachian Mountain system in Kentucky, Tennessee and northern 

 Alabama. The limits of this fauna extend southwestward be3rond the 

 nucleus plotted as Transition in Merriam's map. Our knowledge of 

 this fauna is due to Lea, Binney, Bland, Wetherby, Harper and others. 

 It has been neglected by the present generation of conchologists, but 

 careful collections by Mr. and Mrs. H. H. Smith are now in progress 

 on its southern border (Alabama). 



III. The Ozarkian fauna, limited to the Ozark uplift, chiefly in 

 Arkansas, but extending into adjacent States north and west. It is 

 largely mapped as humid Upper Austral ( = Carolinian) by Merriam. 



These three faunas possess but few species in common, aside from 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



those widespread forms of the whole Carolinian zone, yet they have a 

 similar facies, owing to the rich development of Stenotrema and toothed 

 Zonitidce, the relative scarcity of Pupillida', etc. It may be that the 

 resemblances are due to parallelism in evolution of the faunas from a 

 common source, yet the possibility may be entertained that the 

 Mississippi embayment, which isolates the Ozark uplift, was crossed 

 by a ridge, permitting rock-living snails to emigrate west from the 

 Cumberland plateau, at some period in tertiary time. This is a geo- 

 logical question aside from our present purpose.^ There is no mention- 

 able trace of Boreal zone elements in any of the three southern moun- 

 tain faunas; and no ground exists in the molluscan fauna, for mapping 

 even the highest peaks as Canadian or Alleghanian. 



The Ozarkian fauna is thus one of several mountain faunas of com- 

 mon origin, all traceable to the Appalachian tertiary radiation. The 

 limits of this fauna can be mapped only after much more field investi- 

 gation, but roughly it includes the broken country of southern Mis- 

 souri, a small area in southeastern Kansas, the hilly eastern part of 

 Indian Territory, and the greater part of Ai-kansas, east as far pos- 

 sibly as the 500-feet contour line; but data are absolutely lacking for 

 the definition of its eastern boundary in Arkansas. We know that on 

 the opposite shore of the Mississippi there is no trace of Ozarkian 

 forms. Possibly the upland region of northwestern Louisiana should 

 be added. 



On the northwest, north, and northeast of the Ozark area the wide- 

 spread Carolinian species rule; on the southeast and south the 

 Austroriparian, and on the southwest the uttermost waves of Lower 

 Sonoran life ripple agaiast the rising Ozark mass. The several elements 

 of the fauna are here listed. 



1. Species and subspecies confined to the Ozark fauna: 



Polygyra dorfeuilliana? Polygyra j. deltoidea. 

 d. sampsoni. j. sirnpsoni. 



d. percostata. labrosa. 



d. perstriata. fraterna imperforata. 



jacksoni. pUsbryi. 



* Dr. D. S. Jordan writes: "Streams of the Ozark Mountains similar in char- 

 acter to the rivers of East Tennessee have an essentially similar fish fauna, 

 although between the Ozarks and the Cumberland range lies an area of lowland 

 bayous into wliich such fishes are never known to penetrate." {Science Sketches). 

 He suggests that the time of mingUng across the lowlands may have been when 

 the intervening region had a colder climate. • <tSl 



' This species spreads southward as far as Galveston, etc., Ijut it is listed here 

 because it is an abundant Ozarkian form, and has three races confined to that 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



535 



Polygyra uncijera. 

 hlandiana. 

 inflecta media, 

 edentata. 

 e. magazinensis. 

 obstrida occidentalis. 

 neglecia. 

 cragini. 



exoleta ozarkensis. 

 divesta. 



Polygyra indianorum. 



i. lioderma. 



hinneyana. 



b. chastatensis. 



kiowaensis. 

 Gastrodonta demissa brittsi. 

 Otnphalina fuliginosa ozarkensis. 

 Vitrea aulacogyra. 



significans. 



simpsoni. 



2. Carolinian species occurring in the Ozarlc uplift or on its borders 

 (many of them extending also into the Austroriparian or Sonoran, 

 the latter marked S.) : 



Polygyra stenotrema. 



fratema. 



appressa. 



a. perigrapta. 



inflecta. 



elevata. 



albolabris alleni. 



thyr aides. 



clausa. 

 Circinaria concava. 

 Omphalina fuliginosa. 



friabilis. 

 Gastrodonta ligera. 

 Zonitoides arborea (S.). 



ininuscula (S.). 

 Vitrea Jiammouis.^ 



indentata (S.)- 



petrophila. 



mvltidentata. 



Euconvlus chersinus dentatus. 

 Agriolimax campestris (S.). 

 Pyramidula solitaria. 



alternata. 



perspectiva. 

 Helicodiscus parallelus. 

 Philomycus carolinensis. 

 Pupoides marginatum (S.). 

 Bifidaria armifera (S.). 



contracta (S.). 



procera (S.). 



pentodon Say (S.). 



tappaniana Ad. (S.). 

 Cochlicopa lubrica." 

 Vallonia parvula. 

 Succinea retusa. 



oralis Say. 



grosvenori (S.). 



avara (S.). 



3. Austroriparian and Sonoran species (the latter marked S.), 

 extending into the Ozark uplift or to its borders. 



• These are more properly Boreal species, extending downward, however, 

 through and below the Alleghanian (Transition) zone. 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Helicina orbiculata tropica (S.)- Bulimulus dealbatus. 



Polygyra texasiana (S.)- Zonitoides singleyana. 



iriodontoides. Euconidus chershms trochulus (S.)- 



leporina. Vertigo rugosvla. 



fraterna. Strobilops labyrinthicus texasianus 



j. friersoni. (S.) 



/ alicice Helicina orhicidata tropica 'Jan.' 



Pfr. (S.) 



About 36 per cent, of the total number of land snails listed are thus 

 peculiar to the Ozark fauna; but when its boundaries come to be more 

 exactly defined, and the finger-like extensions of the Austroriparian 

 and Sonoran areas along the river bottoms are eliminated, the propor- 

 tion of special forms wiU probably be increased. 



II. Annotated List of Species. 



With few exceptions, only the species collected by the authors in 

 March and April, 1903, are treated of here. For a full knowledge of the 

 Ozarldan fauna up to this time. Papers 6, 9 to 25 of the Bibhogra- 

 phy appended must be consulted in connection with this. 



The specimens reported below were collected by the authors, except 

 when another collector's name is given in parenthesis. Unless other- 

 wise stated, all records are from specimens, not from the literature. 

 Helicina orbiculata tropica ' Jan' Pfr. 



Missouri: Chad-wick, Christian Co. 



Arkansas: Rogers, Benton Co.; Blue Mt. Station, Logan Co. 



Indian Territory: Limestone Gap, Choctaw Nation ; Wyandotte. 

 Polygyra texasiana (Moric). 



Oldahoma City, Okla. (Ferriss). A form with rather weak, irregu- 

 larly developed striation, similar to the Texan transitioas between 

 P. texasiana and P. t. hyperolia. Also Petit Jean, Ark., and Limestone 

 Gap, I. T. (Ferriss) ; found by Pilsbry at neither place. 



Mr. Sampson reports this species from Sebastian anrl Nevada Cos. 

 Ark., and from Indian Territorj', opposite Fort Smith, Ark. 



Polygyra dorfenilliana Lea.' PI. XX, figs. 13, 14, 15, 16. 



This species is now known to us from the following localities : 



' Tliis species was named for Mr. Dorfeuille, of Cincinnati, proprietor of a 

 museum and place of amusement known in IS'27 as ' ' Dorfeuille's Hell. ' ' Mrs. 

 TroUope, in Domestic Manners of the Americans, states that "Cincinnati has 

 not many Uons to boast, but among them are two museums of natural history; 

 both of these contain many respectable specimens, particularly that of Mr. Dor- 

 feuille. who has moreover some ItigUy interesting Indian antiquities. He is a 



man of taste and science As Mr. DorfeuiUe camiot trust to his 



science for attracting the citizens, he has put his ingenuity into requisition .... 

 He has constructed a pandemonium in an upper story of his museum, in which he 

 has congi-egated all the images of horror that liis fertile fancy could devise, ' ' etc. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



Missouri: Warsaw, Benton Co.; Springfield, Green Co.; Chadwick, 

 Christian Co. ; Seligman, Barry Co. ; Current River, county not recorded. 

 Mr. Sampson adds Camden, Howell, Douglas, Macdonald and Jasper 

 counties {Nautilus, VIII, pp. 18, 19). Baker records Arcadia, Iron 

 Co., and J. H. Britts found it in Hemy Co. (Walker Coll.). 



Kansas: Arkansas City, Cowley Co. 



Arkansas: Mammoth Spring, Fidton Co.; Hardy, Sharp Co.; Eureka 

 Springs, Carroll Co. ; Rogers, Benton Co. ; Van Buren Co. ; Chester and 

 Porter, Cra^vford Co.; Carrion Crow Mt., near Atkins P. O., Pope Co.; 

 Gwj'nn and Poteau Mts., Sebastian Co.; Blue Mt. Station, Magazine 

 Mt. and Petit Jean Mt., Logan Co. ; Hatton Gap, Rich Mt. and Mena 

 and Cove, Polk Co. ; Gilham, Chapel Hill, Horatio and Ultima Thule, 

 Sevier Co.; Morris Ferry and Rocky Comfort, Little River Co.; Hot 

 Springs, Garland Co. It has, in addition to these place.s, been recorded 

 from Hempstead, Nevada, Washington, Franklin, Pulaski, Johnson 

 and Perry counties by Mr. Sampson. 



Indian Territorij: Wyandotte, Wyandotte Nation; Fort Gibson, 

 Cherokee Nation; Red Fork, Creek Co.; Eufaula, Sugar Loaf Mt., 

 Wister, Poteau, Tushkahoma, Standley, Antlers and Limestone Gap, 

 Choctaw Nation. 



Louisiana: Frierson and Nachitoches, Nachitoches Co. ; De Soto Co. 

 (Coll. B. Walker) ; Mt. Lebanon, Bienville Co. 



Texas: DeKalb, Bowie Co. ; Cooke Co. ; * Denison, Grayson Co. ; Dal- 

 las, Waco ; Tarrant Co. ; * Washington Co. ; " Burleson * and Brazos ^ 

 counties ; Cialveston. 



These places are plotted on the accompanying map, on which locali- 

 ties for P. dorjeuilliana are represented by dots and the variety samp- 

 soni by outlined dots. Henry and Camden counties, Mo., are the most 

 northern localities known, and Ai-cadia, Iron Co., Mo., and the Current 

 River are the easternmost. On the west it is known from Grouse 

 Creek, near Arkansas City, Kan., and throughout the eastern half 

 of the Indian Territory, and in Cooke Co. and Fort Worth, Tex. 

 Southward it penetrates to Washington Co., Tex., in the latitude of 

 Austin. 



This species thus inhabits an oblong area about 600 miles long and 

 300 wide. In Missouri and Arkansas it is not known from the Missis- 

 sippi lowlands, all known localities being above the 500 feet contour. 

 In Louisiana and Texas, however, it descends to half that elevation, 



' On the authority of Mr. J. A. Singley. 

 ' On the authority of W. G. Binney. 




536 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEiMY OF 



[Dec, 



but yet, except at Galveston, where it may be imported, it seems to be 

 absent from the very wide and low Gulf border. 



of MEXICO 



Fig. 1. — Distribution of Pohjgyra dorfeuiUiana Lea, known localities represented' 



bv dots. 



The variety sani'psoni Wetherljy, by its more imcoiled spiral, is a 

 more evolved or accelerated race than typical dorfeuiUiana. It occu- 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



pies the northern central portions of the area, while the less evolved 

 t3rpical form is peripheral. There is, however, no line to be drawn 

 between them, as in many places both forms and the intergrades 

 occur together, and in the Choctaw Nation especially, most specimens 

 are intermediate in size of the lunbilicus. 



In 1903 we took the species at eleven localities in ilissouri, Arkansas 

 and Indian Territory. Some of the specimens from the bluff along 

 Grand River at Wyandotte, near the northeast angle of Indian Terri- 

 tory, are the largest I have seen, and also the most extreme of the 

 sampsoni form, diameter 8 to 9.3 mm. (PI. XX, figs. 17, 18, 19). Those 

 from Limestone Gap, Indian Territory, and Magazine Mt., Ark., are 

 intermediate in characters. At Mammoth Spring, Fulton Co., north- 

 east Ai'kansas. only typical dorfeuilliana was taken, the shells being 

 small, 6.7 mm. diam. (PI. XX, fig. 12). This is exactty the size given 

 by Lea for the tj'pe, .3 inch. 



In originally describing this species. Dr. Lea gave the locality as 

 "Ohio, yir. Dorfeuille, Cincinnati." Mr. W. G. Binney states that 

 "Mr. J. G. Anthony obtained from Mr. Dorfeuille some facts concern- 

 ing the original discovery of this species, which prove beyond all doubt 

 that it was accidentally brought from Kentuck}^" It is on the 

 strength of this that he reports it from "Kentucky, opposite Cin- 

 cinnati." Binney also records dorfeuilliana from "Coosa River, Ala- 

 bama. ' ' 



A somewhat extensive correspondence with active collectors has 

 failed to bring out any definite locality for dorfeuilliana in Kentucky, 

 Tennessee or Alabama. Inquiry among Cincinnati conchologists has 

 elicited no further confirmation of Mr. Dorfeuille's Kentucky record. 

 Mr. Bryant Walker WTites : ' ' There are no P. dorfeuilliana from east of 

 the ^Mississippi, so far as I can find, in the Wetherby collection. I 

 have two specimens labelled 'Ky.' sent me years ago by Anthony, 

 and one from the Lathrop collection from ' Wn. Tennessee.' ' ' 



Dr. W. H. Dall, of the U. S. National Museum, under date of October 

 21, 1905, writes: "I have looked over our series of dorfeuilliana Lea. 

 One, marked by Lea 'type,' has the locality 'Cincinnati,' but the 

 label records no collector's name, but the original description credits 

 it to Dorfeuille. There is also a fragment from Florida named by 

 Binney dorfeuilliana, but which in my opinion is a fragment of avara. 

 The first is No. 116,779, the other 47,318. We do not have it from 

 Alabama. AU our series are from Indian Territory, Ai-kansas, Louisi- 

 ana, Texas. I feel quite confident the Ohio or Kentucky locality is 

 erroneous." 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Mrs. George Andrews informs us that no specimens from east of the 

 Mississippi have come to her knowledge aside from the records in Mr. 

 Binney's work, already alluded to. 



It is our experience that in the trans-Mississippian region where P. 

 dorfeuilliana occurs it is a common snail, readily found in all suitable 

 stations, and often in considerable quantity. It is not one of the 

 snails occurring only in restricted localities and requiring special search 

 to find. It seems therefore doubtful whether its range really extends 

 east of the Mississippi at all ; and until some definite cis-3\Iississippian 

 locality for it is put on record, we are disposed to erase Ohio, Kentucky, 

 Tennessee and Alabama from the ascertained range of the species. 



The variety percostata Pils.'° (PI. XX, fig. 23) was based on 

 specimens from the Red River in southwest Arkansas, in which the 

 riblets of the upper surface continue over the base, which is strongly 

 and coarsely rib-striate. The sculpture, however, varies a good deal, 

 even in the original lot of several hundred specimens, most of which 

 are as smooth as the ordinary form of dorfeuilliana. The umbilicus, 

 while variable in width, is never so wide as in typical sampsoni. The 

 diameter is from 7 to 9 mm. 



We hesitate now to treat P. d. percostata as a subspecies, yet the 

 tendency in this local race to produce a sculptured base is not present 

 in a great number of other colonies of dorfeuilliana which have been 

 studied in thousands of specimens. 



P. d. perstriata n. subsp. PI. XX, figs. 24 (type), 20, 21, 22. 



Another incipient race of P. dorfeuilliana from Tushkahoma and 

 Poteau, Indian Territory, is open below like P. d. sampsoni, but the 

 base is finely and densely striate. In a large series collected the 

 sculpture varies but little. 



Other specimens from Mena, Ark. (PL XX, figs. 20-22) are smaller, 

 and vary to forms with less distinctly striate base. 

 Polygyra jaoksoni (Bland). PI. XX, figs. 1-5. 



The axis in this species is distinctly perforate at all stages of growth. 

 The upper lip-tooth is deeply placed and very oblique. Viewed from 

 the inside, the spire and parietal wall removed, it is seen to be 

 a narrow oblique lamina. There is no tubercle on the columella inside, 

 at least in the specimens I have opened. The diameter varies ordi- 

 narily from 6.5 to 7.5 mm. 



The type locality is Fort Gibson, I. T. We collected it copiously in 



'° Polygyra dorfeuilliana percostata Pils., Nautilus, Xin,p. 37. Tj-pe loc, near 

 Texarkana, Ark., on the Red River. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



the Petit Jean Mts., Logan Co., Ark. A few were taken at Blue 

 Mountain Station, Logan Co., Ark. ; and in Indian Territory, Wyandotte 

 Nation, at Wj^andotte, on the top of the bluff, in dry woods under 

 stones. Some of them are very small, barely over 6 mm. diam. Speci- 

 mens from Springfield, Mo., are also small, 6.6 to 7 mm. diam. 



The localities now known for P. jacksoni follow : 



Southwestern Missouri: Camden Co.;" Dade Co.;" Ash Grove and 

 Springfield, Green Co. ; Jasper Co. ; Barry Co. ; " Macdonald Co." 



Arkansas: Eureka Springs, Carroll Co.; Washington Co.;" Rogers, 

 Benton Co.;'^ Porter and Chester, Cra\\'ford Co.; Van Buren Co.; 

 Franklin Co. ;" Sebastian Co. ;" Blue Mt. Station and Petit Jean Mts., 

 Logan Co. ; Rich Mt. and Mena, Polk Co." 



Indian Territory: W3'andotte, Wyandotte Nation; Fort Gibson, 

 Cherokee Nation; Poteau, Choctaw Nation.'- 



The range of the species eastward in northern Ai-kansas remains to 

 be mapped. On the south its limit is apparently indicated with ap- 

 proximate accuracy, since the explorations of Mr. Ferriss in Arkansas 

 south of Polk county, and of both of us in the adjacent portions of 

 Indian Territory, failed to bring P. jacksoni to light. 



Polygyra jacksoni deltoidea (Simpson). PI. XX, figs. 6, 7. 



Helix (Polygyra) jacksoni var. deltoidea Simps., Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 1888, 

 p. 450. 



Similar to P. jacksoni, except that the front edge of the parietal 

 callous is very thick and raised in an erect triangle. Alt. 3.5, diam. 8 

 mm., or smaller, diam. 7.5 mm. This form has been found only near 

 Fort Gibson, I. T. It has not before been illustrated. The figures are 

 from cotj'pes. 



Polygyra jacksoni simpsoni n. subsp. PI. XX, figs. 8, 9, 10, 11. 



Larger than P. jacksoni and luholly imperforate, though the axis is 

 hollow except in the last whorl, and the young shells therefore are 

 perforate. The aperture does not differ from that of P. jacksoni, but 

 there is a small tubercle within on the columella, seen upon breaking 

 into the base. Whorls 5^. Alt. 4.7, diam. 9.3 mm. The largest 

 specimen taken measures 9.5 mm. diam., the smallest 8.3 mm. 



The types were taken by us near Wyandotte, Wyandotte Nation, 

 in the northeast angle of Indian Territory, on the south bank of Grand 

 River, on a steep rocky bluff facing north. Mr. Simpson found this 

 form near Fort Gibson, I. T., and it may be what Sampson refers to as 



" Recorded on the authority of Mr. F. A. Sampson. 

 " Recorded on the authority of J. H. Ferriss. 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



a large form of P. jacksoni which he took on the bhiffs of the Arkansas 

 River at Van Buren, Crawford Co., and in Sebastian Co., Ark., but we 

 have not seen his specimens. 



At Wyandotte P. j. simpsoni alone is found on the bluff facing the 

 river, while the small typical jacksoni occvu-s in the dry stony woodland 

 at the summit of the bluff. In no case were the two forms found in 

 company. 



In 1900 Mr. Ferriss took a specimen of this variety at Mena, Polk Co., 

 Ark. (cf. Nautilus, XIV, p. 28, No. 72). 



Section Stenotrema Raf. 



Five species of this group are now known from the Ozark region: 

 P. stenotrema, P. labrosa, P. blandiana, P. uncifera and several sub- 

 species of P. fraterna. The common Eastern P. hirsuta is not known 

 to enter the Ozarks. Mr. Sampson has recorded it from Sedalia, Mo., 

 a place well out of the Ozark fauna. P. fraterna, P. fraterna friersoni 

 and P. f. alicice are the only Stenotremes known to reach so far south- 

 west as Texas. 

 Polygyra stenotrema (' Fdr.' Pfr.). 



Not a common snail in the Ozark region, so far as my experience 

 goes. It does not appear in Mr. Singley's Texas list, and I can find 

 no Missoiu-i record, though from its presence at Hardy and Wyandotte 

 it may reasonably be expected over the State lines northward in both 

 Missouri and Kansas, as well as in the stiU unknown eastern part of 

 Arkai^sas. The following localities are represented by specimens 

 before us: 



Arkansas: Hardy, Sharp Co. (Ferriss) ; Mabelvale, Pulaski Co. 

 (C. W. Johnson); Petit Jean Mts., south of Hartford, Sebastian Co., 

 one dead shell (Pilsljry and Ferriss) ; spur of the Chastat ilts., about 6 

 miles south of Mena, Polk Co. (Ferriss) ; to which Mr. Sampson adds the 

 records Clark, Garland and Independence counties. 



Indian Teiritory: Wyandotte, Wyandotte Nation (Pilsbry and 

 Ferriss); Fort Gibson, in the Cherokee Nation (E. W. Hubbard). It 

 was also taken at the latter place by C. T. Simpson in 18S8. 



Polygyra labrosa (Bland). 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1903, p. 202, pi. 9, figs. 4-6. 



Helix labrosa Bid., Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., VII, 1862, p. 107, pi. 4, fig. 19. 



In 1903 we took this species at eight places in ^Missouri, Arkansas and 



Indian TerritorJ^ It is quite abundant in most places, and varies but 



slightly. The recorded range of P. labrosa east of the Mississippi in 



Tennessee and Alabama (see Bland) rests solely upon data and sped- 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



mens furnished by our conch ological forefathers, and no localities 

 more definite than the States mentioned have been given. It may be 

 that the eastern range claimed for this species and Polygyra dorfeuilli- 

 ana will prove to be without foundation in fact. In the West its 

 actually ascertained range is as follows. Except where otherwise 

 stated, we have examined specimens from the localities mentioned: 



Missouri: Camden, Benton, Macdonald and Jasper counties;" 

 Springfield, Green Co. ;'^ Marble Cave near Galena, Stone Co. ; Seligman, 

 Barry Co. ; Chadwick, Christian Co. ; Cedar Gap, Wright Co." 



Arkansas: Mammoth Spring, Fulton Co.; Eureka Springs, Carroll 

 Co. ; Rogers, Benton Co. ; Van Bm'en" and Chester," Cra-wford Co. ; 

 Washington,"Franklin,"Conway,"Perr3r,"and Independence" counties ; 

 Carrion Crow Mt.," Pope Co.; Hot Springs, Garland Co.; Washita 

 Springs,'^ Montgomery Co. ; Little Rock, Pidaski Co.; Magazine Mt., 

 from the summit down, and Petit Jean jMts., Logan Co. ; Poteau Mts., 

 south of G^\ynn P. 0., Hartford Sta., Sebastian Co. 



Indian Territory: Sugar Loaf Mt., northwest of Gwj^nn P. 0., Ark. 



These localities are all in the hilly or mountainous country, chiefly 

 in central and western Arkansas, barely reaching over the State 

 border on the west, but extending some distance north into Missouri. 

 Nowhere does the species approach the lowlands of the Mississippi, so 

 far as we know at present; but we are stiU practically without data on 

 the land moUuscan fauna of eastern Arkansas. 



In his original description Bland mentioned four localities for P. 

 labrosa: Washita Springs and Hot Springs, Ark., Temiessee and Ala- 

 bama. As neither was designated as tj'pical, I would suggest that 

 Hot Springs, Garland Co., Ark., be selected as the type locality. It 

 has been collected there by Ferriss and others. 



There is a Helix labrosa of Wood, Index Testaceologicus, SuppL.p. 24, 

 pi. 8, fig. 69 (1828), which seems to be identical with Buliminus labiosus 

 MuU. 



P. {Stenotrema) edgariana might be supposed to inhabit Arkansas, 

 from the range given by Binney, Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 275, but 

 it has not to my knowledge been found west of the Mississippi River, 

 and I doubt its occurrence there. 



" Recorded from this locality on the authority of Mr. F. A. Sampson. 

 " Recorded from this locality on the authority of J. H. Ferriss. 

 '' Recorded from tliis locahtv on the authority of Thomas Bland. 

 36 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Polygyra monodon (Rack.). 



Helix monodon Rackett, Linnean Trans., XIII, 1S22, p. 42, pi. 5, fig. 2. 

 Stenotrema monodon var. leaii Ward, Birmey, Man. Ainer. Land Shells, p. 281, 



fig. 297. 

 Polygyra monodon Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 454. 



The southern range of typical P. monodon {Stenotremaleai of authors) 



seems to barel}' reach the Ozark region. Mr. F. A. Sampson records it 



from Sedaha, Pettis Co., and Lamar, Barton Co., Mo., and Carroll, 



Benton, Washington and Nevada counties, Ark.; also Neosho Co., 



Kan. We have not ourselves seen Arkansas specimens. The following 



subspecies replace P. monodon in the Southwest. 



Polygyra fraterna friersoni Pils. 



Nautilus, XIII, p. 36 (1899) ; Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 1900, pp. 454-456. 

 The shell is perforate or rarelj' closed, with 6i whorls, a long fulcrum, 

 much longer than in P. f. imperforata, and no distinct notch at the 

 base of the columella. It is larger than P. f. alicice with more whorls. 

 Numerous localities are given in Pilsbry's paper of 1900, to which the 

 following may be added ■ Fayette Co., Tex., and Nashville, Tenn., 

 in an open field, collected by A. G. Wetherby. This is the only locality 

 known east of the Mississippi River. The type locality is Frierson, La. 



Polygyra fraterna (Say). 



It is somewhat peculiar that this form turns up in central Texas, 

 where it was taken by us at and near New Braunfels, and bj' Pilsbry at 

 Austin about 14 years ago. 

 Polygyra fraterna imperforata Pils. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 455; 1903, p. 204. 



We took this form on the Poteau Mts., south of G^\ynn P. 0. (Hart- 

 ford Station), .Sebastian Co., Ark. It is known also from Rich ^It. and 

 Mena, Polk Co., and Rocky Comfort, Little River Co., Ark. One 

 of the types from the last locality measures: alt. 7.7, diam. 10. .5 mm. 

 to alt. 6.7, diam. 9 mm. 



Polygyra fraterna alioiae Pils. 



Helix motwdon var. alicicE Pils., Man. Conch., VIII, p. 1.52. Feb. 25, 1893. 

 Polygyra monodon alicicB Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, pp. 454-456; 1903, 

 p. 204. 



This form is typically small and elevated with veiy convex base, 

 narrowly perforate axis, and 5h to 6 whorls. The degree of elevation 

 varies a good deal. The fulcrum is long and strongly notched above 

 and below. The basal lip has a more or less strongly developed 

 flange on its face, somewhat as in P. vuUuosa, with a notch where it 

 €nds at the columella. Specimens of the type lot from Lake Charles, 

 La., measure from 5x7 mm. to 5.7 x 7.8 mm. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543 



We took this subspecies at the following localities: Monett, Barry 

 Co., Mo.; Petit Jean Mts., Sebastian Co., Ark.; Wyandotte, Vinita, 

 Wister, South McAlester and Limestone Gap, Indian Territory. 



It is before us from three localities near the northeastern angle of 

 Texas: Gainesville, Cass Co. (Ragsdale); Wood Co. (R. Walton Coll.); 

 and DeKalb, Bowie Co. (Ferriss). 

 Polygyra obstricta ocoidentalis n, subsp. PI. XXII. figs. 30, 31, 32. 



Shell imperforate, slightly convex or nearly fiat above, very convex 

 beneath; similar to the more strongly carinate form of P. o. carolinensis, 

 but differing by the reduced teeth, those of the lip being very small 

 or vestigeal. Surface rib-striate, very minutely and densely papillose 

 between the riblets, not coarsely roughened as in obstricta. Whorls 4^ 

 to nearly 5, the last slightly descending in front. 



Alt. 7.7, diam. 18.7 mm. 



Alt. 8.2. diam. 17.8 mm. 



Alt. 7, diam. 17 mm. 



Alt. 7.5, diam. 16.5 mm. 



Northern Arkansas, probably from near Benton, Saline Co. Col- 

 lected by Prof. Stuart Weller. Collections of Ferriss and A. N. S. Phila. 



This form is readily distinguishable by its dwarf stature and much 

 reduced lip-teeth. It is less acutely keeled than typical P. obstricta. 

 It is evidently what Mr. Sampson^' reports from Independence Co., 

 Ark. He found one specimen 20.5 mm. in diameter. 



P. obstricta carolinensis (Lea) extends westward in the South to 

 Grand Cane, De Soto Co., La., where it was collected b}^ ilr. George 

 Williamson. Typical P. obstricta has not, 1 believe, been found west 

 of the Mississippi River. 



Polygyra inflecta (Say). PI. XXII, fig. 1. 



Missouri: Chadwick, Christian Co. 



Arkansas: Rogers, Benton Co.; Blue Mountain Station and Maga- 

 zine Mountain, both on the north and south sides of the summit, and 

 Petit Jean Mts., Logan Co.; Poteau Mountain, south of Gwynn P.O. 

 (Hartford Station), Sebastian Co. 



Indian Territory: Wyandotte, along the Grand River, Wyandotte 

 Nation; Sugar Loaf Mt., Wister and Limestone Gap, Choctaw Nation. 



This common snail was everjT\here found in abundance; and since 

 in various places it has diverged to form local races or species, some 

 account of its variation may be timely. The type locality given by 

 Thomas Say is "lower Missouri" — that is, along the Missouri River 



'« MoUusca of .Arkansas, 1S93, p. 1S6 




544 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



within the State of Missouri. The type specimen measures alt. 6.2, 

 diam. 11.25 m.m., with 5 whorls. The outer lip-tooth recedes a little 

 and is somewhat broad and rounded. The lower or basal tooth is 

 marginal, decidedh^ narrower than its fellow, and tubercular. The 

 notch between the two teeth is squarish and decidedly wider than deep. 

 See PI. XXII, fig. 1. 



In the stony ravines of the Ozark system at Chad wick, ^lo., the 

 extensive series collected shows two forms, which we will call 1 and 2, 

 occurring in the proportion of 13 of form 1 to 38 of form 2, or one to 

 three. Form 1 (PI. XXII. figs. 2, 3) is nearly typical, but more frequently 

 the outer tooth is as small as the basal. The size varies from 5.2 x 10 

 to 7.3 X 12 mm. Form 2 is more soUd, with the aperture more con- 

 tracted by larger teeth (PI. XXII, figs. 4-6). The two hp-teeth are 

 subequal, the basal one massive and broadly conic. The notch between 

 them is narrower than in the t3^e, and as deep as it is wide. No speci- 

 mens reach the size of form No. 1, the extremes measuring 5x9 and 

 5.3 x 10 mm. Whether these two forms occmred together or in sepa- 

 rate colonies was not noted. 



The forms from other localities mentioned above vary from typical 

 to a condition of teeth intermediate between the two forms described. 

 Thus at Wyandotte, near the northeast angle of Indian Territory, 

 intermediate specmiens occur in profusion (PI. XXII, figs. 7, 8). 

 Among them was a mutation with the basal tooth obsolete, singularly 

 like P. smithi Clapp, except in the smaller size, diam. 10.4 mm. (fig. 9). 



On the northern side of the cliff defining the summit plateau of 

 Magazine ^Mountain it occurs adjacent to the locality for P. edenlata 

 magazinensis, though not actually associated with it. The specimens 

 here are mostly small, diam. 9.5 to 11.2 mm. On the drier and warm 

 side south of the simimit plateau and in the valley south of Blue iloun- 

 tain Station, at the southern foot of the mountain, they are equally 

 small. The largest infleda we found were taken in the Petit Jean 

 Mountains, about ten miles south of i\Iagazine ilountain, where they 

 measured 12.3 to 13.8 mm. diam., and usuallj- have the basal lip 

 calloused on the axial side of the basal tooth. The crest behind the 

 lip is also sharp and high. 



Polygyra inflecta media Pils. PI. XXII, fig. 10. 



Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Pliila., 1903, 197, in text. 



Lip-teeth reduced to small tubercles, but still stronger than in P. 

 edentata. Seligman, Barry Co., Mo. (Ferriss, 1901). Types No. 

 81 437 A. N. S. P., cotypes in Ferriss Coll. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



This is a further development of P. infleda form No. 1, described 

 above. 



Polygyra edentata (Sampson). PI. XXII, figs. 11, 15, 16. 



Triodopsis edentata Sampson, Nautilus, III, p. 85, December, 1889. 

 Triodopsis edentula Sampson, W. G. Binney, Tliird Supplement Terr. Moll., 



V, p. 190. 

 Polygyra edentata Sampson, Pils., Man. of Conch, VIII, p. 154, pi. 50, figs. 



1&-'18; Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1903, p. 197. 



The original specimens came from the summit of the Boston Mts., 

 at Winslow, Washington Co., Ark. Mr. Sampson found it also at 

 Porter, Crawford Co., and Ferriss took specimens at Chester, in the 

 same county. These localities afford specimens 12 to 14 mm. in diam. 



P. edentata diifers from P. infleda by the reduction of the two lip- 

 teeth to small and inconspicuous prominences, which however occupy 

 the positions of the prominent teeth in P. inflecta. The specimens 

 from Chester have a somewhat sharper, higher crest behind the lip 

 than the others. 



Polygyra edentata magazinenois n. subsp. PI. XXII, figs. 12, 13, 14, 17, 18. 



Similar to P. edentata, but more contracted behind the lip, and with 

 the aperture less rounded, more triangular, the lower lip-tooth absent, 

 replaced by a low, wide prominence nearer to the columellar end of the 

 basal lip; scale-like cuticular processes well developed. 



Alt 7 7 7 6.7 7 6 6 mm. 



Diam 14 13.5 13.3 13 12.5 12 11.5 " 



Most of the series of 114 specimens measiu-e from 13 to 14 mm. 

 diameter. All agree in the shape of the aperture and peristome, 

 which varies remarkably little. 



Magazine ^Mountain, Logan Co., Ark., in a talus of large rocks under 

 the cliff on the north side of the summit plateau (Ferriss and Pilsbry 

 March 28-30, 1903) . We found a single dead specimen on the south side, 

 near where the road ascends the cliif . 



The smallest specimens are distinctly angular at the laeriphery in 

 front. 



Polygyra cragini (Call). 



Triodopsis cragini Call, Bull. Washb. Coll. Lab. N. H., I, No. 7, p. 202, fig]5. 

 December, 1886 (banks of Chetopa Creek, Neosho Co., Kansas). j 



This small Triodopsis varies but little so far as present collections 

 indicate. It borders the Ozark elevation on the west, from Kansas to 

 Texas and Louisiana, the localities known to us by specimens up to this 

 time being as follows : 



Southeast Kansas: Nesoho Co. (Cragin); Thayer (Ferriss). 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Indian Territory: Mnita, Cherokee Co. (Pilsbry and Ferriss) ; Red 

 Fork, Creek Co. (Ferriss) ; McAlester (C. T. Simpson), South IMcAlester 

 (Pilsbry and Ferriss) and Choctaw City (Ferriss), Choctaw Country. 



Western Arkansas: Mena, Polk Co.; Ultima Thule. Sevier Co. (J. H. 

 Ferriss) ; Rocky Comfort," Little River Co. 



Northwestern Louisiana: Frierson, Nachitoches Co. (L. S. Frierson). 



Northeastern Texas: Wood Co. (J. A. Singley). 



At South McAlester, I. T., we found it under stones and wood on a 

 stony hillside, April 8, 1903. 



Polygyra hopetonensis (Shuttlw.). There is a set of four small speci- 

 mens apparently of this species, stated on the label to be from Fort 

 Gibson, I. T., received by A. D. Brown from E. W. Hubbard (No. 

 4,718 A. N. S. P.). This is so far from the well-known range of the 

 species (South CaroUna to Florida) that we mention the matter merely 

 to provoke further investigation. 

 Polygyra neglecta Pils. PI. XXII, figs. 19, 20, 21. 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1903, 196. 



This species is now known from the following localities : 



Missouri: Springfield, Greene Co. (Wetherby) ; Chadwick, Christian 

 Co. (Ferriss and Pilsbry); near Marble Cave, not far from Galena, 

 Stone Co. (Coll. A. N. S. ); Seligman, Barry Co. (Ferriss). 



Kansas: Fort Scott, Bourbon Co. (F. A. Sampson); Erie, Xeosho Co. 

 (Ferriss). 



Arkansas: Em-eka Springs, Carroll Co. (Sampson); Rogers, Benton 

 Co. (Ferriss and Pilsbry); Mammoth Spring, Fulton Co. 



Indian Territory: Wyandotte, Wyandotte Nation (Pilsbry and 

 Ferriss). 



The range of the species indicated by these localities is a small area 

 in the northern and northwestern outliers of the Ozark system, about 

 200 miles in extent east and west, and about 120 miles north and south. 

 Its distribution northward in ^Missouri remains to be determined ; but 

 southward in Arkansas and Indian Territory it probably does not 

 range much farther, for it would hardly have escaped the notice of 

 Messrs. Sampson, Simpson, Ferriss and myself. 

 (Several specimens from Mammoth Spring, Fulton Co., near the 

 northern boundary of Arkansas, are not quite t\-pical, yet are decidedly 

 nearer to negleda than to P. fraiulidenta. Wliether P. neglecta will stand 

 as a species or be reduced to the rank of a subspecies of P. fraudulerda 

 remains to be seen when good collections from the intermediate region 

 between its area and the ilississippi River can be examined. 



" Reported bj- Mr. Ferriss, who also gives the locality Hard}', .-^rk. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



Polygyra kiowaensis (Simpson). PI. XXI, figs. 13, 17-20. 



Helix (Mesodon) kiowaensis Simpson, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 18SS, p. 450. 



Pilsbry, Man. Conch., VIII, p. 155, pi. 50, figs. 13-15, with var. arkansaensis, 



p. 156, pi. 50, figs. 11, 12. 

 Helix (Mesodon) kiowai'iisis Simps., Pilsbry, Proe. A. N. S. Phila., 1889, p. 414, 



pi. 12, figs. 11, 12 (jaw and teeth). 

 Polygyra (Mesodon) kiowaensis Simpson var. arkansaensis Pils., Nautilus, 



IV, p. 131 (March, 1891). 

 Mesodon kioioaensis Simpson var. arkansaensis Pils., Sampson, Moll, of 



Arkansas, p. 192. 



This is a solid, compact little "Mesodon," readily distinguished from 

 P. binneyana and from the small umbilicate form of P. indianorum by- 

 its wide spire and narrower last whorl, and by the very narrow expan- 

 sion of the internally thickened lip, which is without traces of teeth. 



It was originally found at Kiowa and Limestone Gap, I. T., two 

 statioas (not towns) on the M. K. & T. R. R., where Mr. C. T. Simpson 

 collected in 1888. A single bleached shell was taken at Eufaula, I. T. 



In 1903 we worked a few days, April 9-11, at and near the Gap, and 

 on the adjacent Sandstone "Mountains" immediately eastward. 

 Helices were found chiefly under stones, together with copperheads 

 and rattlesnakes. We found P. kiowaensis very rare. Pilsbrj' got two 

 living ones, one of them not full grown, and four dead shells, three of 

 them more or less broken ; Ferriss a few more. In all of them the 

 umbilicus is slightly narrower than in a cotype from Kiowa received 

 from Mr. Simpson (PI. XXI, fig. 20). 



On the dry southern slope of Magazine Mountain, Logan Co., Ark., 

 we found several dead and bleached shells similar to those from Lime- 

 stone Gap, only two entire and one broken, although a great deal of 

 time and labor was spent in the search. They occurred around and 

 under rocks (PI. XXI, fig. 13). 



The onl}^ other locality known is from near Hot Springs, Garland Co., 

 Ark., where Mr. Sampson in 1890 found the types of what was described 

 as var. arkansaensis (PI. XXI, figs. 17, 18). These specimens are some- 

 what more robust than the types of kiowaensis, with the aperture 

 slightly larger and the umbilicus smaller. The specimens collected by 

 us at Magazine Mountain and Limestone Gap demonstrate however 

 that the differences in the umbilicus and the shape of the mouth are 

 inconstant; and we are now convinced that the varietal distinction is 

 untenable. The name arkansaensis should therefore be dropped. 



The scarcity of specimens at the three widely separated localities 

 known, while many intermediate localities have been carefully searched 

 for snails, shows P. kiowaensis to be one of the rarest of American Helices. 



Measurements of the specimens in Coll. A. N. S. follow, the dimen- 

 sions of aperture including the peristome : 




Limestone Gap . 



548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Alt. Diam. Aperture. Umbilicus. 



Hot Springs | 9-5 16 7.2x9 1.5 mm. 



I 10 16 8 x9.2 1.5 " 



Magazine Mt | 9 15.3 7 x8.8 1.2 " 



1 9.2 15.2 7.2x9 1.2 " 

 Kiowa 8.8 14.5 6.2x7.9 1.8 " 

 " 7.7 16 6.7x9 1.7 " 

 8 15 6.7x8.2 1.5 " 

 7.8 14 6 x8 1.5 " 

 13.3 6 x7.7 1.3 " 



The number of whorls varies from 5J to 5A. 



Polygyra binneyana Pilsbry and Ferriss. PI. XXI, figs. 9, 10, 11 (Petit Jean Mts.), 12 (Sugar 

 Loaf J. 



Pils., Nautilus, XIII, p. 38 (August, 1899); Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 1900, p. 

 451, 1903, p. 201. Ferriss, Nautilus, XIV, pp. 26, 27, 2S (July, 1900). 



This beautiful species is closely related to P. indianorum, but is 

 readily distinguished from the tyjDical form of that species by its open 

 umbUicus. It is equally easy to separate it from P. kiowaensis by the 

 larger aperture and comparatively narrower lip, which is less thickened 

 within and more reflexed. It is found only on the mountains,'* so far 

 as our experience goes, and chiefiy under large stones. It commonly 

 does not seem to be found in the same localities with P. indianorum, 

 either the one or the other occupying the ranges where we collected 

 in 1903. Ferriss however got both at Tushkahoma, I. T., a year or 

 two previously. It is now known from the following localities, all 

 of them south of the Arkansas River : 



Arkansas: Magazine Mt., Logan Co.; Petit Jean Mts., at the south 

 border of Logan Co., or the northwestern border of Yell Co. (Ferriss 

 and Pilsbrj-); Mena, Hatton's Gap and Rich Mt., Polk Co., and Gil- 

 ham and Horatio, Sevier Co. (Ferriss). 



Indian Territory: Sugar Loaf Mt. and Wister, Choctaw Nation 

 (Ferriss and Pilsbry); Tushkahoma (Ferriss); Poteau, 21-24 mm . 

 diam. (Ferriss). 



The specimens from Indian Territory are much smaller than those 

 from Arkansas, as may be seen from the following table, from which the 

 variation curves may readily be plotted. At Sugar Loaf Mt. the mode 

 is at 19.5 mm. and the largest specimen measiu'es 23 mm. in diam., 

 while in Arkansas the mode is at 24 to 26 mm., and the largest speci- 

 men measures 28.2 mm. Curiously enough, at Tushkahoma, where the 

 largest P. indianorum were found, P. binneyana was small. 



" Ferriss reports it living under stones in creek bottoms in Se\'ier and Polk 

 counties, Arkansas. Nautilus XIV, 26-28. 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



549 



The locality ' ' Hardy, Sharp Co. ' ' given in the original description, 

 may possibly be due to an error of some sort, as that place seems out 

 of the general range of the species ; yet until a further search is made 

 there, we are not justified in omitting the locality. 



Measurements of Polygyra binneyana. 



P. binneyana ohastatensis n. subsp. PI. XXI, fig. 16. 



In the Chastat Mountains, four miles south of ]\Iena, Polk Co., Ark., 

 Mr. Ferriss found a small race in which the lip is comparatively much 

 wider than in tj-pical P. binneyana, but yet differs from P. kiowaensis by 

 being strongly reflexed. Types 78,655 A. N. S. P. 



Alt. 11, diam. 20 mm., whorls fully 5. 



Alt. 10.5, diam. 17.7 mm., whorls 5. 



Alt. 9.5, diam. 17.7 mm., whorls 4f . 



This is the smaller variety mentioned by Ferriss, Nautilus, XIV, p. 29. 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE^rr OF [DeC, 



Polygyra indianornm Pils. PI. XXI, figs, l, 2 (Tushkahoma), 3-8 (Limestone Gap). 



P. divesta indianorum Pils., Nautilus, XIII, p. 39. Ferrisa, Nautilus, XIV, 



p. 28 (July, 1900). 

 P. indianonim Pils., Prop. A. N. S. P., 1903, p. 200. 



This species is still known from only a small area, the localities being 

 as follows: 



Arkansas: Poteau Mts., south of Hartford Station (Gwynr. P. 0.), 

 Sebastian Co., on steep slopes under stones (Ferriss and Pilsbry), 

 April 5, 1903. 



Indian Territory: Tushkahoma, Standley and Poteau (Feiriss); 

 Limestone Gap (Simpson, Ferriss and Pilsbry). 



At Limestone Gap, on the line of the M. K. & T. R. R., we found P. 

 indianorum the commonest species, though living ones were hard tc 

 get. The shells are smaller than at Tushkahoma, rarel_v over 22 mm. 

 diam., and about 60 per cent, of the whole number taken have the 

 umbilicus more or less open. There is a perfect series of gradations 

 from imperforate to as widely umbilicate as P. bi?!nc2/a?i«; only three 

 shells of those found by Pilsbry were so open as this, and as thej' were 

 specialh^ looked for, the actual proportion is probabh' less than 3 per 

 cent. 



These umbilicate shells, taken by themselves, might be considered 

 to be P. hinneyana were it not that they connect with imperforate 

 indianorum by an unbroken series of intergrades, and moreover even 

 those most like hinneyana have the columeUa perceptibly more widely 

 dilated. 



It will be seen by the table of measurements that all the specimens 

 from Limestone Gap plotted together would form a curve with two 

 nearly equal, strongly marked modes at the diameters IS and 21 mm. 

 Separated into three series according to the condition of the umbilicus, 

 it is apparent that the imperforate (typical) form is larger than the 

 perforate, being from 18 to 22.5 mm. diameter, with the mode at 21 mm., 

 while the perforate form is from 16 to 21 mm., with the mode at IS mm., 

 and the few really umbilicate specimens are 16.3 to 16.8 mm. in diam- 

 eter. This diminution of size correllated with a perforate or umbilicate 

 axis may indicate that the Limestone Gap race is either undeveloped or 

 retrogressive, assuming maturity while yet retaining a character of the 

 stage of youth in the unclosed axis ; the best nourished (largest) indi- 

 viduals attaining the normal closed umbilicus, while in those less favored 

 the closure is imperfect, and in only the most stunted snails is the umbiU- 

 cus open. 



A somewhat different view would be that the Limestone Gap series 

 is in process of diverging to form two species, one larger and imper- 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



551 



forate, the other smaller and iimbilicate ; but as yet both characters 

 intergrade, and all the forms certainly occur together. 



Measurements of Polygyra indianorum. 



Polygyra indianorum lioderma Pils. PI. XXI, figs. 14, 15. 

 Proc. A. X. .S. Pliila., 1902, p. 511. 



Red Fork, CYeek Co., I. T. This form is intermediate between P. 

 indianorum and P. roemeri, being much less regularly and less distinctly 

 striate than the former. It has not before been figured. 



Polygyra roemeri (Pfr.) is a terminal member of the divesta-india- 

 noruni series, smoother than any of the more nortliern forms. 

 Polygyra di vesta (Gld.). 



This snail is now known from the following places. Names of the 

 collectors are indicated by initials: F., Ferriss; P., Pilsbry; S., Sampson. 



Missouri: Springfield, Green Co. (F.); Cedar Gap, Wright Co. (F.); 

 Chadwick, Christian Co. (F. and P.); Seligman, Barry Co. (F.); also 

 reported from Jasper and Dade counties (S.). 



Kansas: Fort Scott, Bourbon Co. (S.). 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Arkansas: Rogers, Benton Co. (F. & P.); Eureka Springs, Carroll 

 Co. (S.); Blue Mt. Station and Magazine Mt., Logan Co. (F. & P.); 

 Carrion Crow Mt., Pope Co. (F.) ; Petit Jean, Yell Co. (F.) ; Hot Springs, 

 Garland Co. (F., S.) ; Mablevale, Pulaski Co. (C. W. Johnson) ; Washita 

 Springs (Gould, type loc); also reported from Crawford, Franklin, 

 Sebastian and Conway counties (S.). 



Indian Territory: Fort Gibson, in the Cherokee country (E. W. Hub- 

 bard, C. T. Simpson). 



Louisiana: Grand Cane, De Soto Parish (Wilhamson). 



P. divesta has been reported from Bowling Green, Ky., by Miss S. F. 

 Price (Nautilus, XIV, 75), but I have not seen specimens from there and 

 am not siu-e of the identification. It has also been recorded from 

 ' ' Vernon Co., Miss.," but there is no county of that name in the State. 

 No reliable record of its occurrence east of the ^lississippi River exists. 



Throughout its range the species is very uniform in character, the 

 diameter ordinarilj' being from 17 to 21 nun. At Chadwick, where 

 nearly aU land snails are dwarfed, the sheUs are remarkably small, a 

 series of 23 measuring as follows : 



No. of specimens 1 3634411 



Diam. innun 13.6 14.5 15 15.5 16 16.5 17 18 



Polygyra albolabris alleni (Wetherby). 

 Proc. A. N. S. Pliila., 1903, p. 197. 



Several smaU series were taken in 1903 showing variations similar to 

 those discussed in a former paper. Aside from size the shells do not 

 vary much. The diameters are tabulated below for ten locahties 

 where we took the species in 1903. 



Two large specimens from the north side of Magazine Mountain show a 

 parietal tooth. We do not remember seeing this tooth developed in 

 the trans-Mississippian race of albolabris hitherto. 



The largest specimens were taken on steep, damp and rocky northern 

 slopes, unthoiit reference to elevation. At Wyandotte, at an elevation of 

 about 900 feet above the sea, they live on the steep, rocky bluff facing the 

 river. At Magazine Mountain the series of large shells came from the 

 edges of the talus, just under the great sandstone cliff along the northern 

 side of the pleateau siunmit, at an elevation of about 2,700 feet; while 

 at an equal elevation on the dry south side, with the same sort of rock 

 and abundant cover, the shells were small, 25 mm. diam., and at the 

 base of the mountain still smaller, 24.5 mm. At Chadwick, where the 

 country rock is hmestone, the individuals are small, 22 to 25 mm. 



The size oj individuals in this species and area seems to be dependent 

 upon the abundance of cryptogamic food, and is therefore a function of 




1906.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



553 



the particular station rather than related to elevation or geologic for- 

 mation. 



It is likely that the specimens from Seligman, Mo., which exhibited 

 two sizes without intermediate forms, commented upon in these 

 Proceedings for 1903, p. 198, were from two stations of diverse physical 

 features. 



There has also been recorded from Daingerfield, Morris Co., Tex., 



a small form of albolabris, collected by Mr. W. L. ilcDaniel (J. A. 



Singley, Contrib. to Nat. Hist, of Texas, Mollusca, p. 305; Fourth Ann. 



Rep. Geol. Surv. of Texas, 1892). Mr. Singley also reports that a colony 



of P. albolabris from North Carolina has been established by Mr. 



Askew at Tyler, Smith Co., Tex. 



Polygyra zaleta ozarkensia n. subsp. PI. XXII, tigs. 26-29 



Mesodon exoletus Binn., Sampson, Preliminary List of the Mollusca of 

 Arkansas, Ann. Rep. Geol. Surv. of Ark. for 1891, II, p. 190. 



The shell is smaller than P. zaleta (Binn.), with the spire usually more 

 elevated, having somewhat the aspect of P. elevata; whorls 5^, more 

 slowly increasing, the last, in dorsal view, narrower. Aperture with a 

 larger parietal tooth; columellar prominence usually well developed. 

 Bright yellow, usually with a pink under-tint showing through on the 

 spire. The cuticle is often partly or wholly worn from living shells. 



Alt. 16.5, diam. 23 mm. 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Alt. 15.5, diam. 23.5 mm. 



Alt. 15.5, diam. 23 mm. 



Alt. 15.5, diam. 21.5 mm. 



Types No. 91,329, A. N. S. P., from Sugar Loaf Mt., Choctaw Nation, 

 I. T., collected by Pilsbry and Ferriss, April 6 and 7, 1903. 



While readily distinguishable from typical P. zaleta (or exoleta, as it 

 is commonly known), this form has much in common with the race of 

 northern Alabama, such as Mr. H. E. Sargent found at Woodville. In 

 Woodville shells also the parietal tooth is very large, and the size is 

 ordinarilj' that of typical zaleta, though occasional dwarf specimens 

 are not larger than the Ozark race. 



In fresh specimens of P. z. ozarkensis there is usually an appearance 

 of angulation at the periphery in front, though no actual angle exists. 

 The more elevated specimens might easily be mistaken for P. elevata, 

 which however differs by its eolumellar plate, the irregular shape of 

 the aperture and the more closely wound whorls. 



Typical P. zaleta we have seen from Black Hawk Hollow, Fort Madi- 

 son, Lee Co., Iowa (T. Van Hyning), but it has no extensive distribu- 

 tion in Iowa. Binney reports it from Missouri, but all the specimens 

 before us from that State are the variety ozarkensis. 



Binney specified no type locality for his Helix zaleta, merely stating 

 that it is "common in the States bordering on the Ohio river, and in 

 the western parts of Virginia and Pennsylvania." In order to have 

 a definite standard, Cincinnati, 0., may be considered type locaUty, 

 specimens from that place agreeing well with his description and 

 figures. 



The following localities are now known for P. z. ozarkensis. Where 

 no collector is mentioned the shells were taken by the authors: 



Missouri: Current River; Seligman, Barry Co.; Cedargap, Wright 

 Co.; Springfield, Green Co. (S. Weller); Chadwick, Christian Co. 



Arkansas: Eureka Springs (Sampson); Mammoth Spring, Fulton 

 Co. ; Harrison, Boone Co. (Stuart Weller) ; Rogers, Benton Co. ; Maga- 

 zine Mt., Blue Mt. Station and Petit Jean Mts., Logan Co.; Mablevale, 

 Pulaski Co. (C. W. Johnson); Little Rock; Poteau Mts., south of 

 Gwynn P. O., Hartford Station, Sebastian Co.; Rich Mt. and Mena, 

 Polk Co.; Little River, Little River Co. In addition to these places 

 from which we have seen specimens, Mr. Sampson records P. exoleta 

 from Washington Co. 



Indian Taritory: Sugar Loaf Mt., close to the western boundary of 

 Sebastian Co., Ark. ; Wyandotte. 




1906 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



AleasuremetUs {diameter) of Polygyra zcdeta ozarkensis. 



Of this species onlj- two or three, at most, of the lots taken are suffi- 

 ciently large to be expected to yield normal curves. It would seem 

 however that there is no difference in size between shells from the 

 shady north side of the summit of Magazine Mountain and those from its 

 drj' southern slope. The Poteau Mountain and Petit Jean Mountain lots 

 are from northern exposures, but these mountains are rather dry. The 

 Sugar Loaf lot is from shady, leafy ravines, but not especially well 

 watered or damp. The snail however is not one which affects moist or 

 rocky situations. It Uves preferably on slopes leaf -carpeted over a rich 

 humus, and rolls out of the leaves where one is raking for Omphalina . On 

 the north side of Magazine Mountain we took them on the leafy slope 

 just below the great rock-talus. 



From locahties in Arkansas other than those tabulated but few (one 

 to three) specimens have been seen. They agree with those in the table 

 with tliree exceptions: At Rich Mountain Mr. FerrLss took two speci- 

 mens, 23.5 and 26 mm. in diam. ; in Little River Co. three taken measiu-e 

 24.25 and 26.5 mm. ; and two from Little Rock are large and hea^'y, 

 26 and 27.5 mm. These larger shells approach the eastern P. zaleta, 

 and indeed intergrade with that in size. 



Polygyra elevata (Say). PI. XXn, figs. 22-i5 (Hardy. Ark.). 



Sampson, Ivansas City Re\iew of Science and Industry, February, 1SS3, 



p. 551 ; Bull. Sedalia Xat. Hist. Soc, August, 1885, p. 19. (Sedalia, Mo.) 

 Moll, of .Arkansas, Ann. Rep. Geol. Surv. 1891, p. 190. 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Simpson, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1S88, p. 450. (Fort Gibson, I. T.) 

 Call, Bull. Washburn College Laboratory of Nat. Hist., I, No. 7, p. 202, 

 December, 1886. (Wj-andotte, Kan.) 



Very few records have been made of the existence of this species 

 west of the ^Mississippi River. The form from this region is in the 

 average smaller than Eastern shells. Some care is required to dis- 

 tinguish it from P. zaieta ozarkensis. A set of fine shells from Spring- 

 field, Green Co., southwestern Missouri (A. G.Wetherby collection) , is in 

 the collection of Br_yant Walker, who gives the following measurements : 



Alt 17 16.75 16 15.75 15 mm. 



Diam 21.5 20.25 19.75 20.5 20.25 " 



Sampson records P. elevata from Sedalia, ^lo. We have not seen 

 specimens. One shell (Ferriss Coll.) was taken by Prof. Stuart Weller 

 near or at Harrison, Boone Co., Ark., measuring 17 x 22.5 mm. At 

 Hardj% Sharp Co., also in northern Arkansas, a series of five taken by 

 Mr. Ferriss measm-e: 



Alt 15.5 16 16 17 17 mm. 



Diam 21 5 20 20.5 21.5 22 " 



Whorls 6i 6J 6i 6f 6i 



Several of these are illustrated for comparison with P. z. ozarkensis, 

 from which the greater number of whorls and the oblique, straightened 

 basal hp, usually with a tooth and notch at its outer end, distinguish 

 P. elevata. 



Other records from Arkansas are given by 'Mr. Sampson: CarroU, 

 Crawford, Clark, Jackson Cos., and Augusta, Woodruff Co. (Call). He 

 remarks that it is "found on low ground or adjacent thereto." P. 

 elevata seems to be a species which has penetrated only the northern 

 edge of the Ozark region. The specimens reported from Fort Gibson, 

 I. T., should be re-examined, for they may prove to be P. z. ozarkensis, 

 a form easily mistaken for P. elevata. 



P. elevata occurs as a pleistocene fossil in the Mississippi river bluffs 

 at Alton, 111., and Natchez, Miss. 

 Polygyra thyroides (Say). 



Taken by us at Chadwick, Christian Co., Mo.; Rogers, Benton Co., 

 and Mammoth Spring, Fulton Co., Ark., and in Indian Territory at 

 Wyandotte, Wj'andotte Nation, A'Lnita, Cherokee Nation, and Wister, 

 Choctaw Nation. Also at San Marcos, Hays Co., in central Texas, and 

 reported by Ferriss from Smithville, Tex. 

 Polygyra clansa (Say). 



Chadwick, Christian Co., Mo.; Mammoth Spring, Fulton Co., Ark.; 

 Vinita, Cherokee Nation, I. T. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



PUPILLID^. 

 Fnpoides marginatTiB (Say). 



Rogers, Benton Co., Ark.; Limestone Gap, Choctaw Nation, I. T. 

 Bifidaria oontraota (Say). 



Rogers, Benton Co., Ark.; Limestone Gap, I. T. 



Bifidaria armifera (Say). 



Chadwick, Christian Co., and Monette, Barry Co., Mo.; Rogers, 

 Benton Co., Ark. ; Vinita and Limestone Gap, L T. 

 Bifidaria procera (Gld). 



Rogers, Benton Co., Ark. 



Bifidaria pentodon (Say). 



Hillside along creek south of Blue Mountain Station, Logan Co., Ark. 



Vertigo rngoenla Sterki. 



Limestone Gap, I. T., one specimen. 



Strobilopi labyrinthioa tezasiana Pils- and Ferr. 



Wj-andotte and Limestone Gap, I. T. (Ferriss and Pilsbry); Fort 

 Gibson (Hubbard). vSilver Lake, Kan., and Pottawatomie Co., 

 Okla. (J. B. Quintard). 



VALLONIID^. 

 Vallonia parvula Sterki. 



Fort Gibson, Cherokee Nation, I. T. (E. W. Hubbard, Coll. A. N. S. 

 P.). This is the only Vallonia we have seen from Arkansas or Indian 

 Territory. No other species or locality has been recorded. 



CIRCINARIIDJE. 

 Circinaria conoava (Say). 



Chadwick, Christian Co., Mo. Magazine Mt., Logan Co., Ark., 

 north side of the summit; also on the south side. 



ZONltlD^. 

 Gastrodonta ligera (Say). 



We took this snail at Vinita, Cherokee Nation, I. T., in abundance. 

 We have also seen specimens from Fort Gibson, I. T., taken by Mr. Simp- 

 son in 1888. These points mark its western limit so far as known. 

 Mr. Sampson reports it from five counties in Arkansas {Moll, of Ark., 

 p. 182). It is not known from southern Arkansas or Texas. 



In Louisiana and the adjacent part of Texas G. intertexta replaces 

 ligera in the low country, but that species has not been found in the 

 C)zark region. 

 37 




558 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Oastrodonta demiisa brittsi (Pils.). 



Zonites brittsi Pils., Nautilus, V, p. 99, 1892 (Hot Springs, Ark.). 

 GastTodonta demissa var. lamellata Pils., Nautilus, XIII, p. 107, January, 



1900 (Tushkahoma and Poteau, I. T.). 

 G. demissa and var. brittsi and lamellata Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Pliila., 1900, p. 



456; 1903, p. 213. Ferriss, Nautilus, XIV, July, 1900, p. 31. 

 Zonites demissa Binn., brittsi Pils. and gularis Sav, Sampson, Prelim. List 



Moll, of Ark.; Ann. Rep. Geol. Surv. Ark. for 1891, Vol. II, pp. 182, 183, 



Nos. 5, 6, 16. 

 Zonites acerra Lewis, Simpson, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1888, p. 451 (Fort 



Gibson, I. T.). 



The shell varies from imperforate to as widely perforate as G. 

 demissa ; the periphery is well rounded in adults, and the basal and outer 

 walls of the aperture have a white callous lining, showing yellow outside 

 on the last third of the base, the rest of the shell being olivaceous. 

 Young shells usually have at some stage of growth an entering callous 

 lamella within the basal lip, at the position of the similar lamella in G. 

 gularis. Alt. 6.5, diam. 10 mm., whorls 6^. 



Type locality, Hot Springs, Garland Co., Ark.; distribution, the 

 Ozark uplift in Arkansas and adjacent portions of Missouri and Indian 

 Territory. 



This form has been much misunderstood, and no fewer than five 

 names have been applied to it. It was not until the series collected 

 by us in 1903 was studied that the problem reached solution. In any 

 good series from one place, it is found that some shells possess the basal 

 lamina within the mouth, and that while these shells may be of various 

 sizes, they fall short of the maximum size of the toothless individuals found 

 with them. In the fully adult shells from any colony the lamina has 

 always been absorbed, so far as our experience goes. But specimens of 

 any size may also want the lamina ; so that the lamellate stage may be 

 a transitory feature appearing sooner or later, or possibly it may not 

 be developed at all in some individuals. 



In one lot of 24 shells from Hot Springs, the largest one showing a 

 lamina is 8.5 mm. in diam., and the lamina is verj^ low, hardly notice- 

 able. All of the 7 from this size down to the smallest (5.5 mm.) are 

 laminate, most strongly so in the youngest. None of the larger shells 

 (16 individuals, up to 10 mm. diam.) show a lamina. Fig. 2 repre- 

 sents a series of these shells, drawn to the same scale. 



The types of G. brittsi were specimens just past the laminate stage, 

 but still inmiature. 



In some colonies the laminate stage persists in somewhat larger 

 shells than above indicated. 



The size of the umbilical perforation varies, and we do not now think 

 that any racial distinction can well be based upon its variations. The 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCTENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



559 



Fig. 2. — G. d. brittsi, Hot Springs ; series showing changes with growth, X 4. 



subspecies differs from tjqpical Eastern G. demissa chiefl}^ by the usual 

 development at some stage of the internal lamina, whereas we have never 

 seen this structure in any Eastern examples of the species. 



G. d. brittsi is a more primitive form than G. demissa, and its chief 

 claim to renown is that it supplies the link between the toothed Ga.s- 

 trodonts, such as G. gularis, and those without teeth, G. acerra, ceri- 

 noidea, ligera and intertexta, with which deinissa has hitherto been 

 associated. Wlien young, G. d. brittsi belongs to the dentate group, 

 but adults qualify to enter another class." 



Like the Gastrodonts of the Appalachians, these Ozarkians vary 

 interminably in minor features with locality. At Magazine Mt., 

 Logan Co., Ark., we took it sparingly at all elevations. Also on the 

 Petit Jean Mts., south of Magazine, where they are 9 to 10 mm. in 

 diam., the young of 5 mm. being laminate. Also on the Poteau Mts., 

 south of Gwynn, Sebastian Co., and on Sugar Loaf Mt., in Indian 

 Territory, west of Gwynn, where those up to three-fourths grown are 

 laminate. 



At Chadwick, Christian Co., Mo., there is a large acerra-like form, 

 diam. 12 mm., with 6+ whorls and coarse sculpture. Only a few were 

 taken, none being of the laminate form. The identification of this lot 

 remains a little uncertain. 



The largest specimens we have seen are from Mena, Polk Co., Ark., 

 where they measure up to 8.5 x 14 mm., with 7 whorls. A young one, 

 7.5 mm. diam., is laminate, as are all those of smaller size. The 



" It may be noted that the ligera group was not included in Gastrodonta by 

 Binney anci former authors. It was transferred to that genus by Pilsbry some 

 years ago on anatomic grounds. The conchologic connection is now established. 




560 



PHOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Fig. 3. — G. demissa brittsi, Mena, Ark. The outline figures are natural size. 



adults are very similar to G. acerra, and doubtless it was this form 

 which Simpson records as acerra in his Indian Territorj^ list. 



Numerous other locahties for G. d. brittsi may be found in the works 

 cited above, xmder the names demissa, brittsi, lainellata, acerra and 

 gularis. 

 Zonitoides arborea (Say). 



Chadwick. Qiristian Co., Mo.; Magazine Mt. and Blue Mt. Station, 

 Logan Co., Ark.; Vinita, Sugar Loaf Mt. and Limestone Gap, I. T. 



The specimens from the summit of Magazine Mountain are small with 

 a small umbilicus, and smoothish, glossy surface with the most delicate 

 sculptm-e in place of the usual ^Tinkles. The very minute dense spiral 

 striation is better developed than usual in Z. arborea. 

 Zonitoides minnscnla alachnana (Dall). 



We took this in Logan Co., Ark., at Magazine Mountain, both on the 

 north and south sides of the summit; very scarce. This race differs 

 from Northern Z. minuscula by its much wider umbilicus. It was origi- 

 nally described from Alachua Co., Fla. 



Vitrea multidentata (Binn.). 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1903, p. 208, PI. X, figs. 6, 6a. 



Magazine Mt., Logan Co., Ark., on rocks in the great talus of the 

 cliff along the northern side of the summit. The specimens are very 

 fine and typical, usually with two rows of five or six teeth each, but 

 some show three rows. 



This is very much farther west than the species has hitherto been 

 recorded, and is the only locaUty known west of the Mississippi River. 

 Vitrea simpsoni (Pils.). 



V. significans and V. simpsoni have no spiral sculpture, only a faint 

 fine granulation, when examined with a high power. The radial 

 grooves of the upper surface are weaker in V. simpsoni than in V. 

 significans, especially on the inner whorls. We took the tj'pical form of 

 y. simpsoni at Limestone Gap, I. T., and along a creek about ten miles 




1906.] 



NATtTRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



561 



southwestward. The shells measure 4.5 to 5 mm. diam. and have 

 nearly 5^ whorls. 

 , At the following places a small race of V. simpsoni occurs. The 

 largest shells are barely 4 mm. in diam., with 5 whorls. The umbilicus 

 is smaller and the aperture less lengthened than in the typical form. 



Missouri: Chadwick. 



Arkansas: Rogers, Hardy, Blue Mountain Station, Petit Jean 

 Mountains, Morris Ferry. 



Indian Territory: Wyandotte, Poteau. 



Titrea anlaoogyra n. sp. 



Shell similar to V. petrophila but very much larger, with sculpture of 

 close, obliquely radial striae on the upper surface, the striae fine and 

 close on the inner whorls, much coarser on the last ; strice and interven- 

 ing grooves about equal. Upper surface slightly convex, nearly flat. 

 Whorls 5h, very slowly widening, the last very much wider, rounded 

 peripherally, the base smoothish, not distinctly striate. Aperture as in 

 V. petrophila. Umbilicus slightly smaller in proportion, one-fourth 

 the diameter of the shell. 



Fig. 4. — V. aulacogyra, X 4. 



Alt. 3.3, diam. 8 mm., umbilicus 2 mm. wide. 



Magazine Mountain, in the talus at the north side of the summit. 



This form evidently stands close to V. petrophila, from which it 

 ■differs in the close sculpture of all the whorls and the larger size. The 

 maximum diameter of petrophila in the Ozarks, judging from over 30 

 specimens from various places, is 5^ mm., with 5^ whorls, the umbilicus 

 1.6 mm., contained 3i times in the diameter. The largest Tennessee 

 specimen before us measures 5.6 mm., with 5i whorls. Bland gives 

 the diameter of petrophila as 6 mm., with 5k to 6 whorls. 



V. aulacogyra is excessively rare. Only one specimen, perfect though 

 bleached, was found. 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Yitrea hammonis (Str6m). 



Chadwick, Mo.; Magazine Mt., Logan Co., and Rogers, Benton Co.,. 

 Ark. Excessively fine spiral striae are visible on these specimens, in a 

 favorable light, under the compound microscope. In Eastern V. 

 hammonis they are generally absent. V. petrophila may be distin- 

 guished from hammonis by its more numerous and more closely 

 coiled whorls. 

 Vitrea indentata (Say). 



Monett, Barry Co., and Chadwick, Christian Co., Mo. Rogers, Ben- 

 ton Co.; Magazine Mountain and Blue Mountain Station and Petit 

 Jean Mountain, Logan Co., Ark. Wyandotte, Vinita, Sugar-loaf 

 Mountain, South McAlester and Limestone Gap, Indian Territorj-. 



In the Territorj' the shells are distinctly perforate (var. umbilicata 

 'Singley' Ckll.), but are not quite so large as the Texan form. It is 

 here, as in Texas, the commonest of the smaller zonitids. 

 Vitrea petrophila (Bland). 



Arkansas: Magazine Jlountain north of the summit, Logan Co. 

 It was found by Ferriss in 1900 at Jlena, Polk Co., near the western 

 border of the State {Nautilus, XIV, 30). 



The specimens from Magazine Mountain differ from the types from 

 East Tennessee in being brown in color, like Zonitoides arborea, while 

 the typical form is of a pale corneous tint. There are fully 5^ whorls. 

 V. J), pentadelphia has but 4^. This species belongs to the section 

 Glyphyalinia. The westward extension of this species is unexpected. 

 It will probably prove to be more widely spread in the Carolinian area 

 than is now known. 



Omphalina fuliginosa ('Griff.' Binn.). 



Small, globose specimens were taken on the northwestern confines of 

 the Ozark area at Wyandotte, I. T., and Rogers, Benton Co., and 

 Poteau Mountain, south of Hartford Station, Sebastian Co., Ark. 

 From the shells alone it would be difficult to decide upon the species, 

 but the soft anatomy is certainly nearer fuliginosa than jriabilis. 



Omphalina fuliginosa ozarkensis n. subsp. 



The shell is light and thin, varying from dusky olive to olive-chestnut, 

 dusky near or at the lip. The siuiace is indistinctly marked with fine 

 spiral strife. Wiorls 4^, the earlier ones invariably worn and white or 

 whitish. The mantle is pale gray, the branches of the vena cava black, 

 pulmonary vein and its branches not pigmented. 



Alt. 16 13 mm. 



Diam. 23.3 21.5 " 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .563 



Petit Jean Mountains, south from Magazine Mountain, type loc; 

 also Magazine Mountain, chiefly on the north side of the summit, 

 buried in earth under dead leaves on shady hillsides, the apex only 

 exposed. Ferriss and Pilsbry, March 28 to April 2, 1903. Also Sugar- 

 loaf Mountain, on the boundary between Arkansas and Indian Terri- 

 tory. 



In the field this form is instantly recognizable by the black lines of 

 the pallial region, sharply defined against a pale ground, and readily 

 visible through the shell. In spirit this black pigment remains un- 

 changed. 



Omphalina friabilis (W. G. Binn.). 



Arkansas: Mablevale, Pulaski Co. (C. W. Johnson) ; Rocky Comfort, 

 Little River Co. (Ferriss, 1900). Mr. Sampson ('93, p. 181) reports 

 friabilis from several other counties, but as his list does not mention 

 0. fuliginosa it is almost certain that he included the two species in his 

 records. 



Texas: San Marcos, Hays Co., under dead leaves in the thicket along 

 a rill on the northeast side of San Marcos River, abundant. 



•The anatomical distinctions between 0. friabilis and fuliginosa will 

 be discussed elsewhere. The shells may be distinguished by the smaller 

 apex, narrower and more closely coiled early whorls of friabilis, in which 

 moreover the apical whorls are smooth, polished, whitish-corneous and 

 uyuvorn, while the summit in southwestern fuliginosa is invariably 

 worn, the cuticle removed from the earlier whorls. 



Euoonolns ohersinus dentatas (Sterki). 



Nautilus, XII, p. 116, February, 1899. 



Magazine Mt., on the north side of the summit; also under stones on 

 the hills along the creek south of Blue Mt. Station ; both in Logan Co., 

 Ark. Two young specimens from each place. This form was also 

 taken at Hardy, Ark. (Ferriss). 



These two are, we believe, the only localities known for dentalus west 

 of the Mississippi. 



PHILOMYCID-ffi. 

 Philomyous oarolinensis (Bosc). 



Chadwick, Mo.; Roger and Magazine Mountain, Ark.; Wyandotte, 

 Sugar-loaf Mountain, Vinita and Wister, I. T. 



ENDODONTID^. 

 Pyramidula alternata (Say). 

 Arkansas: Magazine Mt., Logan Co., from the summit to the base 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



a finely striate form with rounded periphery. At the following locali- 

 ties the striation is slightly coarser and the periphery weakly angular : 

 Petit Jean Mts., Logan Co. ; Poteau Mts., Sebastian Co. 



Indian Territory: Wyandotte and Wister, slightly angular specimens; 

 Sugar Loaf Mt., rounded periphery and coarse sculpture. 

 Fyramidula perspeotiva (Say). 



Chad wick, Christian Co., southwestern Mo. ; Arkansas, Magazine Mt., 

 Logan Co., somewhat abundant on the north side of the summit, a 

 few taken also on the dry southern side down to the railroad station. 



At Rogers, Benton Co., Ark., a small form of perspectiva was found, 

 normal in form and sculpture but only 7 mm. diam. The species is else- 

 where so constant in size that this local form is noteworthy. 

 Helioodisous parallelus (Say). 



Arkansas: Rogers, Benton Co.; Magazine Mt., Logan Co. 



Indian Territory: Wyandotte, ^^inita, South McAlester and Lime- 

 stone Gap. 



The specimens from Magazine Mt., where a large series was taken, 

 are scarcely over 3 mm. in diameter with ih whorls. Those from the 

 Territory are slightly larger, 3.8 mm., with 5 whorls. We saw nothing 

 of H. fimbriatus Weth., reported from this region by Simpson. 

 Suooinea avara Say. 



Magazine Mt., north side of summit, and Petit Jean Mts., Logan Co., 

 Ark.; Vinita, Wister and Limestone Gap, L T. 



LYMNiBID^. 

 Lymnsea desidiosa Say. 



Rogers, Ark. 

 Lymnsea oolamella Say. 



Oklahoma City, Okla. (Ferriss). 



Planorbis trivolvis Say. 



Rogers, northeastern Ark.; Limestone Gap, I. T. 



Anoylus kirklandi Walker. 



Hardy, Sharp Co., Ark. (Ferriss). Erroneously reported as A. 

 haldemani in these Proceedings for 1900, p. 457, according to Walker, 

 Nautilus, XVn, July, 1903, p. 29. 



In Texas we took it at New Braunfels, on rushes in Comal Creek. It 

 was also sent fromGarcitas Creek and the Guadelupe River, Victoria Co., 

 by Hon. J. D. Mitchell (1899). 

 Anoylus walkeri n. sp. 



Shell pale corneous, thin, oval, the right and left sides equally curved; 




1906.] 



NATUHAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



565 



moderately elevated, the ape.K depressed, radially striate, situated 

 behind the posterior third, and much nearer the right than the left 

 margin. Surface densely and minutely striate concentrically, and 

 showing faint traces of radial strioe. Anterior and left slopes convex ; 

 right and posterior slopes concave. Length 4.-3, width 2.75, alt. 1.4 mm. 



Fig. 5. — Ancylits ivalkeri. 



Arkansas: Rogers, Benton Co., on fallen leaves in a fish pond, 

 Ferriss and Pilsbry, 1903. Types No. 87,479, A. X. S. P. 



This Ferrissia has nearly as e.xcentric an apex as .4. excentricu^, 

 decidedly more so than in A. rivularis or tardus. The summit of the 

 shell is in front of the somewhat depressed apex. It is named for Mr. 

 Bryant Walker, who has published an excellent revision of the Eastern 

 Ancyli. 



PHYSID.a3. 

 Physa Integra Hald. 



Rogers, Benton Co., Ark. A brown form of the species. 

 Fhysa albofllata Anc. 



Chadwick, Christian Co., JIo. ; abundant and the only Physa found. 

 In small rivulets it is dwarfed. 



Fhysa Thomboidea Crandall. 



Nautilus, XV, p. 44, pi. 2, figs. 6, 7, -August, 1901. » 



Cf . A. Springer, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1902, p. 514, pi. XXVI. 



The shells we took from the stream running through Limestone Gap, 

 I. T., agree with this form received from Mr. Crandall. 



POMATIOPSID^. 

 FomatiopsU lapidarla (Say). 

 Rogers, Benton Co., Ark. 




566 proceedings of the academy of [dcc., 



Bibliography. 



The following list of papers bearing on the mollusca of the Ozark 

 uplift and region adjacent thereto is not intended to be exhaustive. 

 It comprises most of the papers which have not been cited or referred 

 to in the standard works, and which are essential in the study of 

 this fauna. 



1. Baker, F. C. Note on MoUusks from Arcadia, Mo. Nautilus, XII, p. 36, 



July, 1S9S. 



2. BiNNEY, W. G.. and Gray, Arthur F. Notes on the Land Shells of Kansas. 



Bull. Washburn College Lab. of N. H., Vol. I, No. 1, pp. 55, 56, January, 

 1885. 



3. Call, R. Ellsworth. Contributions to a Knowledge of the Fresh-water 



Mollusca of Kansas. Bulletin of the Washburn College Laboratorj' of 

 Natural History. Topeka, Kan. 

 I. Fresh-water Biyalves. Vol. I, No. 1, pp. 49-51, January, 1S85. 

 II. Fresh-water Univalves. Vol. I, No. 1, pp. 51-54, January, 1885. 



III, Fresh-water Bivalves. Vol. I. pp. 93-97. 



IV. Vol. I. No. 4, Oct., 1885, pp. 115-124. 



V. Fifth Contribution to a Knowledge of the Fresh- water Mollusca of 



Kansas. A'ol. I. pp. 177-1S4. 

 VI. i^ixth Contribution to a Ivnowledge of the Fresh-water Mollusca of 

 Kansas. Vol. II, No. 8, October, 1887, pp. 11-25. [Includes also three 

 terrestrial species, Succinea tnoorciana, Ferussacia subcylindrica and 

 Oligyra occulta.'] 



4. . Description of a New Species of Vnio from Kansas. Bulletin of the 



Washurn College Laboratory of Nattiral History, I, No. 2, January, 1885, 

 p. 48, pi. 2, figs. 1-4 (I'nio popenoi^. 



5. . Notes on tlie Land Mollusca of the Washburn College Biological Survey 



of Kansas. Bulletin of the Washburn College Laboratory of Natural 

 History. I, No. 7. December, 1886, pp. 201-206. 



6. . A Study of the Unionidse of .\rkansas, with Incidental Reference to 



their Distribution in the Mississippi 'N'alley. Trans, of the Academy of 

 Science of St. Louis, VII, No. 1. 



7. Cragin.F. W. Miscellaneous Notes. Bulletin Washburn College Laboratory 



of Natural History, \o\. 1, No. 2, pp. 83, 84 {Vnio occidens and Bulimu- 

 lus dealbatus in Kansas). 



8. . A New Species of Unio from Indian Territory. Bull. Washburn Col- 

 lege Laboratory- of Natural History, II, No. 8, October, 1SS7, p. 6 {Unio 

 f/uinlardii). 



9. Ferriss. J. F. In search of Polygyra pilsbryi. Nautilus, XIV, July, 1900, 



pp. 2.5-31. 



10. . A New Lampsilis from Arkansas. Nautilus. XIV, pp. 38, 39. 



11. Ford, Frank J. Kansas Shells. Nautilus, III, 105, 106. 



12. Marsh, William A. Description of Two New Species of Unio from Arkansas. 



Nautilus, V, 1, 2. 



13. . Description of a New Unio from Missouri (Pleurobema missouriensis) . 



Nautilus, XV, p. 74, November, 1901. 



14. Meek, Eugene Seth. A List of Fishes and Mollusks Collected in Arkansas 



and Indian Territory in 1S94. Bulletin U. S. Fish Commission, Vol. XV, 

 for 1S95, pp. 341-349 (1896). The mollusks listed (p. 349) are from Old 

 River near Greenway, in northeastern .\rkansas. Sixteen bivalves and 

 four aquatic gastropods. 



15. PiLSBRY, H. A. Notes on Certain Mollusca of Southwestern Arkansas. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, pp. 449-459. 



16. . Mollusca of Western Arkansas and Adjacent States, with a Re\-ision of 



Paravitrca. Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1903, pp. 193-214. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



17. Sampson, F. A. Notes on the Distribution of Shells. Kansas City Review 



of Science and Industry. 



I. Shells of Eureka Springs, Ark. Vol. V, p. 526, 1881. 

 II. SheUs of Fort Worth, Tex. Vol. V, p. 681, 1882. 

 III. SheUs of Sedaha, Mo. Vol. VI, February, 1883, p. 551. 

 IV. Lamar, Barton Co., Mo.; Springfield, Mo.; Eureka Springs, Ark. Vol. 

 VI, pp. 22-25. 



18. . Shells of Pettis Co., Mo. Bulletin Sedalia Natural History Society, 



August, 1885, pp. 16-28. 



19. . Notes on the Distribution of Shells. American Naturalist, 1887, pp. 



83-86 (On Gastropods collected in Northwestern .\rkansas in March, 1886) . 



20. . A Preliminary List of the MoUusca of Arkansas (exclusive of the 



Unionidae). Ann." Rep. Geol. Survey of Arkansas for 1891, II, pp. 179-199, 

 1893. 



21. . Mesodon andrewsi in Missouri. Nautilus, VI, p. 90. 



22. . Southern SheUs in Missouri. Nautilus, VIII, p. 18. 



23. . Mollusca of Arkansas. Nautilus, VII, pp. 33-35. 



24. . Some Arkansas Snails. Nautilus, VIII, p. 36. 



25. Simpson, Charles T. Notes on Some Indian Territory Land and Fresh- 



water Shells. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., ISSS, pp. 449-454. 



Explanation of Plates XX, XXI, XXII. 



Plate XX. — Figs. 1-5. — Polygyra jacksoni, Petit Jean Mountains, Ark. 

 Figs. 6, 7. — Polygyra jacksoni deltoidea, Fort Gibson, I. T. Cotypes. 

 Figs. 8, 9, 10, 11. — Polygyra iacksoni simpsoni, Wyandotte, I. T. Cotj"pes. 

 Figs. 12. — Polygyra dorfeuilliana, Mammoth Spring, Mo. 

 Figs. 13-16. — Polygyra dorfeuilliana, Hardy, Ark. 

 Figs. 17-19. — Polygyra dorjeuHliana sampsoni, Wj-andotte, I. T. 

 Figs. 20, 21, 22. — Polygyra dorjeuilliana perstriata, Mena, Ark. 

 Fig. 23. — Polygyra dorfeuilliana percostata, Red River, Ark. Cotype. 

 Fig., 24. — Polygyra dorfeuilliana perstriata, Tushkahoma, I. T. Cotj'pe. 



Plate XXI. — Figs. 1, 2. — Polygyra indianorum, Tushkahoma, I. T. 



Figs. 3-8. — Polygyra indianorum, Limestone Gap, I. T. 



Figs. 9-11. — Polygyra binneyana, Petit Jean Mountains, Ark. 



Fig. 12. — Polygyra binneyana. Sugar-loaf Mountain, I. T. 



Fig. 13. — Polygyra kiowaensis. Magazine Mountain, .Ark. 



Figs. 14, 15. — Polygyra indianorum lioderma, Red Fork, I. T. Cot3'pes. 



Fig. 16. — Polygyra binneyana chastaten^is, Chastat Mountains, A^jk. Co- 

 type. 



Figs. 17, 18. — Polygyra kiowaensis (tj'pesof va.T.arkansaensis), Hot Springs, 

 Ark. 



Fig. 19. — Polygyra kiowaensis. Limestone Gap, I. T. 



Fig. 20. — Polygyra kiowaensis, Kiowa, I. T. Cotype. 



Plate XXII. — Fig. 1. — Polygyra inflecta Say. TA^pe. 



Figs. 2, 3. — Polygyra injlecta, Chadwick, Mo., form No. 1. 



Figs. 4-6. — Polygyra inflecta, Chadwick, Mo., form No. 2. 



Figs. 7-9. — Polygyra inflecta, Wyandotte, I. T. 



Fig. 10. — Polygyra inflecta media, Seligman, Mo. Type. 



Fig. 11. — Polygyra edentata, Chester, Ark. 



Figs. 12-14, 17, 18. — Polygyra edentata magazinensis, Magazine Mountain, 



Ark. Cotj'pes. 

 Figs. 15, 16. — Polygyra edentata Porter, Ark. 

 Figs. 19, 20, 2\. ^Polygyra neglecta, Chad\\ick, Mo. 

 Figs. 22-25. — Polygyra elerata, Hardy, Ark. 



Figs. 26-29. — Polygyra zaleta ozarkensis. Sugar-loaf Mt. Cotypes. 

 Figs. 30-32. — Polygyra obstricta occidentalis, Northern Ark. Cotypes. 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



OBSERVATIONS 

 MADE IN 1906 ON GLACIERS IN ALBERTA AND BRITISH COLUMBIA. 



BY GEORGE, JR. AND WILLIAM S. VAUX. 



At the present time the glaciers close to the line of the Canadian 

 Pacific Railway located in the western part of Alberta and the eastern 

 of British Columbia offer very convenient opportunities for study and 

 comparison. The most accessible examples are found on the western 

 slopes of the Selkirk and Rocky Mountain ranges, where they are fed by 

 the immense precipitation from the warm winds blowing eastward 

 from the Pacific Ocean. In common with almost all glaciers through- 

 out the world it is found that these are receding, and while the changes 

 between year and year are not great when the immense area of the 

 glacier is considered, in a decade or century sweeping differences must 

 be noted. 



That the general tendency for a great many years has been to recede 

 every glacier in this region points with unmistakable evidence. At no 

 very remote date the Illecillewaet and Asulkan Glaciers met and 

 flowed as one down the valley which is now shared in common 

 by their streams ; while the beautiful Lake Louise, more than 22.5 

 feet deep at the centre, owes its existence to the dying Victoria Glacier 

 which now extends only to within one and one-half miles of the upper 

 edge and is year by year depositing in the lake masses of glacier mud , 

 ultimately to reduce it to a muskeg marsh. Thus at every turn the 

 life span of glacier, mountain and lake may be read, and the creating 

 and destroying forces seen at work on every hand. 



The much greater activity of glaciers located on the western slopes 

 of the mountains as compared with those on the eastern has already 

 been noted, and it may also be observed that the sno^'fall on the 

 higher ranges is greater than on the lower in corresponding positions, 

 even though the latter may lie farther to the west, and consequently 

 nearer to the origin of the moisture-bearing winds from the Pacific 

 Ocean. 



The amount of precipitation of snow on the several mountain slopes 

 and in the passes adjacent to the railway has always been a matter of 

 much interest to those concerned in protecting the roadbed during the 

 winter, and also to students of glacier and alpine phenomena, as by 

 comparisons made over a long series of years interesting data of cause 




1906.] 



NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



569 



and effect may be obtained. Upon the completion of the railway 

 records were started, and have been kept with more or less regularity, 

 of the snowi'all at three points near the summit of Roger's Pass on the 

 western slope of the Selkirk Range, ^\^:lile of course great variations 

 have taken place and inaccuracies have crept in, the summaries of 

 daily measurements are here given as they have been preserved for 

 three stations, "Cut Bank," at an elevation of about 4,000 feet. 

 Glacier House, 4,120 feet, and "Xo. 18 Shed," 4,300 feet. 



Table Showing Yearly Snowfall on West Slope of Selkirk Range. 



Taking into account only the j-ears in which records have been pre- 

 served gives the average snowball at "Cut Bank," 19 feet 3 inches. 

 Glacier House, 30 feet 10 inches, and "Xo. 18 Shed," 33 feet 8 inches, 

 while the average yearly snowfall, taking into account all j'ears ob- 

 served since the winter of 1886, gives 27 feet 11 inches. On the higher 

 slopes and the neve regions of the glaciers in the vicinitj^ the snowfall is 

 much greater, yet the above may be taken fairly as an average for the 

 elevation of Glacier House, 4,120 feet, or a little below the tongue of 

 the Illecillewaet Glacier. 



In the following pages no attempt will be made to describe the pecu- 

 liar phenomena of the several glaciers upon which measurements have 

 been made, but to briefly outline the observations made during 

 the last two weeks of July, 1906, together with sufficient description of 

 the work which has gone before to provide data for comparisons. 




570 proceedings of the academy of [dcc, 



Illecillewaet Glacier. 

 Glacier House, British Columbia. 



Being the most accessible of any of this group, the Illecillewaet 

 Glacier has been observed yearh^ since 1898. Prior to that time, 

 beginning in 1887, the observations have been made with less regu- 

 larity.' 



The work may be divided imder three heads, each of which will be 

 treated separately as follows : 



Test Pictures. — These have been made each year, beginning 

 August 17, 1898, from the marked rock "W. " From this point a 

 complete view of the tongue and lower glacier may be had, and of a part 

 of the icefall almost up to the limit of the dry glacier. The same 

 camera and lens being used and exactly the same position selected, the 

 pictures indicate very accurately the changes which have taken place 

 in any given interval. A careful study of these shows that in spite of 

 the continued recession of the tongue and a general shrinkage of the 

 ice at the edges, particularly at the left side where great masses have 

 broken away uncovering water-worn bedrock, the thickness of the ice 

 at the sky line is appreciably thicker than it was in 1898. This condi- 

 tion has been noted for a number of years, and time alone will prove 

 whether an advance will take place when the thicker mass reaches the 

 icefall and tongue. There is no doubt, however, that in all other par- 

 ticulars — breadth, depth and extension of tongue — the glacier is at 

 present from year to year decreasing. A comparison of the two test 

 pictures of 1902 and 1906, reproduced herewith, with that made in 1898 

 (compare Plate V, Pi-oc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1899) will show in 

 detail the changes which have taken place. 



Recession of Tongue. — As previously noted {Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1899, p. 124), the first accurate location of the tongue of the ice 

 is to be found in a long flat boulder not far from the moraine of 1887 

 (S. on the map), lettered bj^ unknown hands, "16 feet to nearest ice, 

 '90." With this rock as a basis the glacier showed a retreat after 

 eight years on August 17, 1898, of 452 feet. 



From 1898 to the past summer (1906) the annual change has been 

 determined from a rock (marked "C. " on map) lying in the centre of 

 the bed moraine and which on August 17, 1898, was 60 feet from the 

 tongue of the ice. The following table shows the recession each year 

 and the date on which the measm-ements were made. 



'' ' ForTdetailed accounts of pre\-ious investigations on this glacier see Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, pp. 121 and 501, and 1901, p. 213. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



Illecillewaet Glacier, Recession oj Tongue of Ice from Rock C. 



It is interesting to note that while the recession between 1890 and 

 1898 showed an average of .56 feet per year, for the eight years from 

 1898 to 1906 this average has been but 33.3 feet per year, or about 

 three-fifths. It will also be observed, by reference to the map, that the 

 measurement on July 24, 1906, was not made to the point of greatest 

 extension in the ice. Should this point have been measured the course 

 would not have been in the same line as previous years, the tongue 

 having moved to the left, but the recession for the year ending in 1906 

 would have been 64 feet, instead of 84 feet as noted in the table. 



The change noted between any two years is not a good indication of 

 the amount of recession or advance which may have taken place, as 

 the local weather conditions, rainfall, and even the condition of the 

 crevasses above, all have a marked influence in determining changes, 

 and it is only when these are eliminated by including a longer interval 

 that the true amount of change may be determined. 



Flow of Glacier above Tongue. — In 1899, to determine the rate of 

 flow of the ice at a point about 1,300 feet above the tongue, eight plates 

 were laid out across the glacier. These were accurately placed by 

 means of a transit in a true line almost at right angles to the direction of 

 flow, and their change in position accurately determined after stated 

 intervals. The positions of these plates have been plotted on the 

 map, and the table on page 572 gives a summary of the changes that 

 have taken place at the times noted. 



With the exception of the comparisons made between July 31 and 

 September 5, 1899 (see first part of table, page 574), the motion indi- 

 cates the movement of the glacier over the period of approximately a 

 year, and thus includes both the siunmer flow which should be greater 

 and the winter flow which should be less than the averages given. 



Several of the 1899 plates have been lost from one cause or another, 




572 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



o 

 < 



O 

 B 



to 







o 

 o 








1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57.3 



while others have completed their journey and now rest on the bowlders 

 at the edge of the ice. In 1906 an entirely new set of six plates was 

 prepared, and on July 12 they were laid out on the exact line used in 

 1899 (see map). Some defects having been found in the first plates the 

 ones laid out this year were of different design. A lighter steel reduced 

 the weight by one-half without decreasing efficiency, while the pipe 

 caulk was dispensed with entirely, a hold in the ice being obtained 

 by turning the right edge up one-half inch, and the left edge 

 down a like amount. The plate was thus held in position on the ice 

 should it turn over. It is made up of but one piece, and may be nested 

 compactly for carrying. Steel one-eighth inch thick was used, 6 

 inches by 7 inches, which was left 6 inches square after the edging up 

 had been completed. A trial showed that the thinner plate, allowing 

 greater melting of the ice beneath, formed a pocket in which the plate 

 rested, almost entirely free from slipping even on the steeper slopes. 

 Each plate was marked "VAUX, 1906" in white on a red lead back- 

 ground. The plates laid out were numbered from 1 to 6, beginning 

 on the right side of the glacier. 



The aim of this investigation was to compare the yearly rate of flow 

 at the line laid out with the yearly changes in the position of the 

 tongue, and to determine the effect which a change in one would have 

 on the other. As the second series of plates have been in position but 

 a short time no yearly comparisons can be made, but the following 

 table, comparing the daily motion of the plates in the fall of 1899 

 (compare Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 507) with the motion 

 of those in 1906, will give a ratio of the summer motion between the 

 two dates. The plates have been grouped according to their location 

 on the glacier, the numbers in the two instances bearing no relation to 

 each other. 



The great uncertainty of this work may be realized when it is noted 

 that in 1906 during twelve clays the surface conditions of the glacier 

 changed completely. Crevasses opened, others closed, and plates 

 which when laid out were on comparatively level ice were found to be 

 in almost inaccessible positions, which took long detours from the 

 main path to reach. 



The interval between the laying out and measuring of the plates 

 was one of unusual heat. Great freshets were reported all through the 

 district, every glacier stream was swollen to abnormal size, and evi- 

 dences of great surface melting were everywhere apparent. 



In addition to locating the position of the plates, a cross-section of 

 the surface of the glacier at this point was developed. A comparison 

 3S 




574 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



of this area with that similarly plotted in 1S99 shows a marked shrink- 

 age in the sm-face of the ice at that point. 



Table Comparing Summer Daily Motion of Plates on lUecillewaet 

 Glacier. 1899-1906. 



AsuLKAN Glacier. 

 Glacier House, British Columbia. 



This glacier, Ijang at the head of the Asulkan Valley, some three miles 

 from Glacier House in British Columbia, has been observed with more 

 or less regularity since 1899 (compare Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1899, p. 504) . At that time rocks were marked and the general aspect 

 of the tongue and moraines noted. Photographs have also been made 

 which show the yearly changes in extension, thickness and breadth. 



The work on this glacier in 1906 covered practically the same 

 ground as on the lUecillewaet, and may be similarly divided. 



Test Pictures. — An almost continuous record of photographs of the 

 lower section has been made since 1899 from a large flat rock several 

 hundred feet below the glacier which affords a view of all parts. A 

 comparison of these photographs taken over a series of years shows 

 smaller changes than in the cases of some of the neighboring glaciers, 

 but that they are of the same character — a general shrinkage and 

 reduction of section area (compare Plates XXV and XXVI with Plate 

 VI, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899). 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



Changes in the Tongue. — On the left side the Asulkan Glacier is 

 bearing a large amount of morainal material which is deposited at the 

 lower part of the left edge and upon the tongue. The right side is 

 comparatively free from moraine except stray erratics which are 

 borne on the surface of the ice and deposited at the edge. Several 

 small moraines on the bed moraine indicate that at one time the 

 amount of this material was much greater than at present. 



For several years the tongue has been deeply bedded in moraine and 

 was difficult to locate. During the period of slight advance which was 

 first noted in 1903 a steep moraine was pushed up at the tongue and the 

 stream forced to find an exit through a smaller moraine on the right. 

 The present year, however (1906), the tongue occupied almost exactly 

 the same position as in 1899, leaving a space between the ice and the 

 moraine which was formed during the glacier advance. A considerable 

 stream issues directly beneath the tongue and almost covering the 

 1899 test rock, has broken through the high unstable moraine. 



The following table shows the changes in the tongue as observed 

 since 1899. 



Table Showing Changes in Tongue of Asulkan Glacier. 



Aug. 12, 1899 "Rock opposite lined with snout." 



Aug. 8, 1900 Snout receded 24 feet. 



Aug. 6, 1901 Ice above rock 20 feet, 4 feet advance. 



Aug. 30, 1903 Ice below rock 16 feet, 36 feet advance since 1901. 



July 23, 1906 Ice lines with test rocks, or is in same position as in 1899. 



The Flow of Glacier above Tongue. — For this work a line was selected 

 across the glacier about 1,250 feet above the tongue and as nearly as 

 possible at right angles to the line of flow. Owing to the comparatively 

 short distances and the ease of observation no base line was laid down 

 except as a check, and the positions of the plates from the points of 

 observation were determined by means of the stadia. The motion of 

 the plates on the ice was in every case measured with a horizontal 

 steel tape at right angles to the base line. Plates numbered 7 to 12, 

 similar to those used on the lUecillewaet Glacier, were laid out on July 

 13, 1906, and their motion determined on July 23. The following 

 table shows the total and average daily motion of the plates and of a very 

 large oblong bowlder resting on the top of the moraine on the left edge 

 of the glacier and advancing with it. 




576 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Talle Showing Average Daily Motion oj Plates on Asulkan Glacier 

 between July IS and July 23, 1906. 



Sketch Map of Tongue. — The accompanying map of the glacier foot 

 has been compiled from a series of stadia measurements, sketches and 

 photographs. On it have been plotted the position of the tongue and 

 the outline of the ice as it existed on July 23, 1906. If question is 

 raised as to the accm-acy of the stadia method for this class of work, it 

 may be noted that in every instance the motion of plates and recession 

 were determined from measurements with a standard tape, and it was 

 found that over rough ground and glacier surfaces work could be 

 greatly expedited by use of the stadia, with an error not so great as 

 would be encountered on the necessarily small scale of the plotting 

 map. 



Wenkchemna Glacier. 



Valley of the Ten Peaks, Laggan, Alberta. 



In some respects this glacier presents the most unusual aspect of any 

 noted in the region. Of the piedmont type its neve receives snow 

 which falls and is blown across the Wenkchemna Group or ' ' The Ten 

 Peaks" and falls into the couloirs and chimneys lying on the northern 

 slopes. At the lower levels a number of comparatively small glaciers 

 are formed, flowing almost due north across the southern half of the 

 Valley of the Ten Peaks. The valley bottom in places is covered with 

 an open forest of firs and spruces, the Lyell larch being found in abund- 

 ance at the upper (western) end where an elevation of over 7,000 feet 

 is reached. 



At the head of the valley several almost parallel lines of ancient 

 moraines were noted, and distinct traces of them could be followed 

 down the valley till they were finally lost in the stream-eroded bottom. 

 These moraines, and the verj^ interesting one at the lower end of j\Ioraine 

 Lake which has given it its existence and name, point clearly to the 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



fact that the glacier at one time covered the entire bottom of the 

 valley, and that the medial moraines which are now noted between the 

 several sections of the glacier were at that time carried entirely on its 

 back down the valley and deposited far below, without leaving any trace 

 of the route which had been originally taken. 



It has been known for a number of years that some portions of the 

 Wenkchemna Glacier were advancing, or rather that from time to time 

 masses of moraine which had rested almost upon the limit of the ice 

 had been shot down upon and partly or completely covered living trees 

 of the forest, which in places comes directly up to the ice wall. A 

 comparison of photographs taken in previous years with the condi- 

 tions as they were found in July, 1906, indicated that at the points in 

 question no material advance of the ice could have taken place, and yet 

 at these very points there was evidence of masses of moraine being 

 projected on the ground below. The fresh rock was thrown beyond the 

 limit of the ice, which to all observation had not changed recently. 

 Tlie base of the glacier close to the ground gave evidence of not having 

 changed for a number of years, but from the ice slope above masses of 

 rock were and had been precipitated over and beyond the older rocks 

 and upon the grass and trees. 



A careful consideration of these vmusual conditions seemed to offer 

 but one satisfactory solution. The ice forming this glacier, or rather 

 composite glacier, is largely contained in a hollow or basin, from the 

 bottom of which drainage is provided to the lake below. The ice 

 extends above the edges of the basin, in many places covered deeply 

 with moraine. The pressure upon the ice from behind causes a slow 

 but steady motion of the upper strata towards the edges, which sets up a 

 shearing action of one laj'er of ice on that below. The result is that the 

 upper part of the moraine, very thin and unable to withstand the pres- 

 sure, is pushed outward by the ice till it falls over the fedge of the lower 

 and more stable portions and upon the green grass or forest beyond the 

 limits of the basin. It is evident that this action is much more active 

 at certain points than at others, and an attempt was made to determine 

 whether the position of the edge had anything to do with it, without 

 satisfactory results. 



Whatever may finally be determined as to the cause of change in tne 

 ice edge, a tramp over the glacier surface gave many evidences of great 

 and continued shrinkage. The moraines everj-where showed that 

 though they had been recently formed the ice was then many feet 

 thicker, and a series of verj^ beautifid rock cones, which rested on the 

 solid ground but were surrounded by ice, bore silent witness to the 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



immense thickness of the ice in recent times compared with what is 

 noted at present. 



Victoria Glacier. 

 Lake Louise, Laggan, Alberta. 



Almost as accessible as the Illecillewaet, the Victoria Glacier has never 

 received the same careful study owing in large measure to the immense 

 moraines which bury the tongue and the almost impossible task of 

 finding permanent base and line ends. The great boulder marked in 

 1899, and which the next season had moved -n-ith the ice 147 feet, has 

 not since been measured, but the position of the ice on the northwest 

 side, referred to several large angular blocks of red quartzite, has been 

 repeatedly determined. 



During the summer of 1898 these blocks slipped from the ice and fell 

 to the moraine below. On July 29, 1899, they were 20 feet from the ice ; 

 on July 24, 1900, 26 feet, showing a change of 6 feet for the j'ear; on 

 September 1, 1903, 76 feet 6 inches, or an average yearly shrinkage of 

 almost 17 feet, while on July 30, 1906, the distance was but 74 feet 

 7 inches, showing practically no change, as the early date of measiue- 

 ment in 1906 compared with 1903 would make considerable difference 

 in the total figures. 



Wapta or Yoho Glacier. 

 YoHO Valley, Ne.\r Field, British Columbia. 



Tliis glacier, located at the head of the Yoho Valley, is a very long 

 day's trip from Field, the station on the railway. On August 17, 1901, 

 the position of the tongue was marked on a large mass of bedrock 

 which had been recently imcovered by the ice. The tongue at this 

 time was a narrow blade of ice somewhat to the left of the axis of the 

 glacier and lying in a long deep groove between parallel ledges of rock. 

 Three years later the change was measured on August 7, 1904, as 89 

 feet, or an average yearly recession of almost 30 feet. At this time 

 there were signs of great activity and marked shrinkage. 



On Julj' 15, 1906, almost a month earlier in the season than on the 

 occasion of the previous visit, the glacier was again observed and the 

 distance measured as 76 feet 7 inches, or about 12J feet less than in 

 1904. Allowing for the earlier date, it may be said that the tongue 

 is in the same position as two years ago. The general aspect of the 

 ce showed that it was shrinking and retreating, and this was particularly 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



the case on the right side where the main stream debouches from a 

 most beautiful ice arch. 



Horseshoe Glacier. 



Paradise Valley, Laggan, Alberta. 



Although no marks have been placed on this glacier it offers some 

 striking and unique points of interest. It is of the piedmont type and 

 owes its existence to the snow avalanches from Mounts Hungabee, 

 Ringrose, Lefroy and Mitre, to the north of which it lies. The tongue 

 and lower portions are deeply buried in moraine. While in common 

 with others there are indications of shrinkage and retreat, the protection 

 of moraine on the smfaces renders these changes very slow. An ex- 

 ceedingly interesting phenomenon was noticed at a point several 

 hundred feet above the tongue where a great sinuous caiion has been 

 worn in the ice. The sides were perpendicular or overhanging, from 

 20 to 30 feet in depth, while the curves were 1,000 to 1,500 feet long. 

 In all there were not less than ten great bends, and through the bottom 

 a good-sized stream flowed. The walls exhibited very fine examples of 

 banding, while all the surfaces were fluted horizontally, apparently due 

 to the greater melting in summer than in winter. Should this be correct 

 the caiion has been at least twelve years in forming. 



From the foregoing data it is hard to draw more than the most 

 general conclusions. It may, however, be safely noted that in all the 

 glaciers observed there has been decided shrinkage and recession in the 

 past seven years. While changes in the position of the tongue may 

 have been small, the ice mass and sectional area are evidently much less. 

 On the other hand the average yearly recession was in 1906 less than 

 during a similar period five years before, the exception in the lUecille- 

 waet Glacier being probably due to imusual conditions. The trifling 

 advances in the Asulkan Glacier may be attributed to local causes and 

 have no particular significance, but the increased daily rate of flow of 

 the Illecillewaet, coupled with a thickening of the ice at the sky line as 

 seen from the test rock, would seem to point to a period of greater 

 activity in the not very distant future. 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



The following reports were ordered to be printed : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



Sixteen meetings of the Academy were held during the past year, 

 with an average attendance of fifty-two. Communications, for the 

 most part illustrated with lantern views, were made by Henry Skinner, 

 George Vaux, Jr., William S. Vaux, Jr., Stewardson Brown, Arthur 

 Erwin Brown, Witmer Stone, John W. Harshberger, William P. 

 Wilson, Edwin G. Conklin, Heiu-y Leffman, Benjamin Sharp, George 

 Wood, Henry E. Wetherill, Harvey M. Watts, Mrs. Charles Schaeffer 

 and Miss ]\Iary J. Holmes. But few of these were reported for publica- 

 tion in the Proceedixus. 



Twenty-seven papers were presented for publication as follows: 

 Henry W. Fowler, 5; J. Percy Moore, 4; James A. G. Rehn, 3; James 

 A. Ci. Rehn and Morgan Hebard, 1; Hem-y A. Pilsbry, 2; Henrj^ A. 

 Pilsbry and C. M. Cook, Jr., 1 ; Benjamin C. Tilghman, 1 ; E. A. Andrews, 

 1 ; Ralph V. Chamberlain, 1 ; N. M. Stevens and A. M. Boring, 1 ; 

 Burnett Smith, 1; Henry C. Oberholser, 1; J. F. McClendon, 1; R. J. 

 Lechmere Guppy, 1 ; N. E. Mclndoo, 1 ; W. S. Blatchley, 1 ; Nathan 

 Banks, 1. Three of these were returned to the authors, the others were 

 accepted for publication in the Proceedings, of which one number for 

 1905 and two for 1906 have been issued and distributed. 



Seven hundred and fifteen pages of the Proceedixx.s have been pub- 

 lished, illustrated by fifteen plates. The Entomological Section has 

 published four hundred and four pages with fifteen plates of the 

 Entomological News and two himdred and forty-seven pages with 

 five jDlates of the Transactions of the American Entomological 

 Society (Entomological Section of the Academy). Two hundred and 

 seventy-two pages with thirty-foiu- ]5lates have been issued of the 

 Manual of Conchology. This makes a total of sixteen hundred 

 and thirty-eight pages and sixty-nine plates published during the year 

 under the auspices of the Academy. 



The President was appointed to represent the Academj' at the cele- 

 bration by the American Philosophical Society of the two hundredth 

 anniversary of the birthday of Benjamin Franklin. 



A satisfactory design for the new Hayden [Memorial Medal has at 

 last been submitted and approved. The artist has been engaged on the 

 work since September, lOOo. Whether the time that has elapsed 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



has been due to the eccentricities of the artistic temperament or a 

 press of other engagements is not known, but it is believed that the 

 beauty of the result will compensate for the delay. The new medal 

 will certainly be a great improvement on the one awarded since 1890, 

 the portrait of Hayden on the obverse being much more accurate than 

 could have been hoped for from the photographs available, while the 

 design of the reverse, replacing the unsatisfactorj- view of the Grand 

 Canon, is gracefully emblematic. The die will, it is hoped, be promptlj'- 

 engraved, so that the medal,so long due. may be conveyed to Dr.Walcott. 

 Mr. Fox has rendered effective assistance in the issue and distribu- 

 tion of the Proceedings. 



Edward J. Nol.\n, 

 Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



During the past year the deaths of the following correspondents were 

 announced from the chair: Baron C. R. von der Osten-Sacken, Elisee 

 F. Reclus, Prof. Eugene Renevier, Dionys Stiu-, and Dr. Henry A. 

 Ward. No correspondents were elected. 



Notices of the deaths of seven scientific men of prominence were 

 received and suitabh^ acknowledged in letters of condolence. 



There were received invitations to participate in the Tenth Inter- 

 national Geological Congress, the International Congi-ess for the Study 

 of Polar Regions, the First International Congress of Oceanograph}-, the 

 Fifth International Congress of Obstetrics and Grasecologj', the Pre- 

 historic Congi-e.ss of France, the Congi-ess of the Latino-Slavic League, 

 the celebration of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the foundation of the 

 Academy of Science of St. Louis, the celebration of the Two Hundredth 

 Anniversary of the birth of Benjamin Franklin and the Dedication of 

 the Engineering Building of the L"niversity of Pennsyh"ania. Except 

 to the last two, no delegates were appointed by the Academy. The 

 invitations were acknowledged by appropriate expressions of interest 

 and regret or congratulation. At the last two gatherings the Academy 

 was represented by its President, on behalf of whom also the Corre- 

 sponding Secretary accepted his appointment by the Society of 

 Physical and Natiu-al Sciences of Bordeaux as delegate to the 

 Franklin celebration. 



A number of circulars announcing changes in the organization or 

 staffs were received from learned societies and museums, and various 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



requests for information or courtesies were answered or referred to the 

 proper officers of the Academy. 



The following table summarize? the correspondence for the year: 



Communications Received. 



Acknowledging receipt of the Academy's publications, 166 



Transmitting publications 65 



Requests for the supply of deficiencies, 2 



Invitations to learned gatherings, 12 



Announcements of deaths of scientific men, 9 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institutions, etc., 10 



Photographs of correspondents, 11 



Biographies of correspondents, 8 



Letters from correspondents 7 



Miscellaneous letters 36 



Total received 326 



Communications Forwarded. 



Acknowledging gifts to the Library, 860 



Acknowledging gifts to the Museum, 55 



Acknowledging photographs and biograpliies, 14 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies in journals 68 



Letters of sympathy and congratulation 8 



Miscellaneous letters 64 



Copies of annual reports and circulars, 326 



Total sent, 1,395 



RespectfuUj' submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The Library of the Academy has been increased by the following 

 additions during the past j'ear : 



Pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 5,715 



Volumes, 1,157 



Maps, 146 



Photographs, 33 



Manuscript, 1 



Total, 7,052 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



They were received from the following sources : 



5S3 



Societies 2,290 



I. V. Williamson Fund 2,397 



Editors 647 



General Appropriation 340 



United States Department of 



Agriculture 315 



United States Department of the 



Interior 250 



Authors 122 



James Aitken Meigs Fund Ill 



Edward Robins 106 



Department of Mines, Western 



Australia 41 



Mrs. Charles Schaeffer 38 



Wilson Fund 27 i 



Dr. H. C. Chapman 21 



Ministerio de Fomento, Peru 16 



University of Chicago 14 



United States Department of 



Commerce and Labor 13 



Department of the Interior, 



Philippines 13 



Cape of Good Hope, Department 



of Agriculture 12 



Swedish Government 12 



Department of Mines, Pennsyl- 

 vania 12 



United States Treasury Depart- 

 ment 10 



UnitedStates War Department... 10 

 Pennsylvania State Department 



of Agriculture 10 



Henryk Arctowski 10 



Department of Agriculture, 



Jamaica 10 



Facultad de Agronomia y Veteri- 



naria. La Plata 9 



MinistSre des Travaux Publics, 



France 8 



Dr. J. W. Harshberger 8 



Henry A. Pilsbry 8 



Sveriges Geologiska Undersok- 



ning 8 



Geological Survey of Xew Jersey.. 7 



James A. G. Rehn 7 



Biblioteca Xacional, Bogota 



Library of Congress 5 



Dr. William P. Wilson 



Commission de la Belgica 



Imperial Geological Survey, 

 Japan 



Trustees of British Museum 



Department de 1' Agriculture aux 

 Indes N^erlandaises 



Iowa Geological Survey 



James F. Jones 



Department of the Interior, 

 Canada 



Government of India 



Department of Mines, New South 

 Wales 



Dr. J. Soils Cohen 



Instituto Geologico de Mexico 



Geological Survey of Canada 



Geological Survey of India 



Bureau of American Ethnology... 



Clarence B. Moore 



William J. Fox 



Publication Committee, Acad- 

 emy 



Dr. Thomas Biddle 



Dr. Edward J. Nolan 



State Geological Survey, North 

 Dakota 



New Zealand Government 



Commissao do Servico Geologico 

 de Portugal 



Albert I de Monaco 



Ethnological Survey of Philip- 

 pines 



Universit(5 CathoUque de Louvain 



Geological and Natural History 

 Survey of Wisconsin 



Department of Mines and Agri- 

 culture, Sydney 



Due de Loubat 



Commissioners of Fisheries and 

 Game (Massachusetts) 



Department of Agriculture of 

 India 



Department of Mines, Victoria 



United States Fish Commission... 



United States Coast and Geodetic 

 Survey 



5 

 5 



5 

 5 



5 

 5 



5 



4 

 4 



4 

 4 

 4 

 4 

 4 

 3 

 3 

 3 



3 

 3 

 3 



3 

 3 




584 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



United States Public Health and 

 Marine Hospital Service 



Dr. W. W. Keen 



Samuel Wagner 



Commission Geologique, Finland.. 



Public Library of Victoria 



Marj'land Geological Survey 



Alabama Geological Survey 



Gouvernements Kina-Ondernem- 

 ingen, Java 



Commission Geodesique N^er- 

 landaise 



Thomas L. Montgomery 



Department of Mines, Nova 

 Scotia 



Imperial Department of Agricul- 

 ture, Calcutta 



Misi50uri Bureau of Geology and 

 Mines 



Home Secretary's Department, 

 Queensland 



Angelo Heilprin 



Trustees of the Indian Museum 



Geological and Natural History 

 Survey of Minnesota 1 



Royal South African Co 1 



State Earthquake Investigation 

 Commission, Cahfornia 1 



Board of Scientific Advice for 

 India 1 



Pennsylvania Department of 

 Fisheries 1 



Dr. Zawadny 1 



North Carolina Geological Survey 1 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp 1 



Illinois Bureau of Labor Statis- 

 tics 1 



Department of Geology and Nat- 

 ural History, Indiana 1 



Council of the Fridtjof Nansen 

 Fund for the Advancement of 

 Science 1 



Geological Commission, Cape of 

 Good Hope 1 



Biologisches Anstalt, Helgoland . 1 



They were distributed to the several departments of the Library 

 as follows : 



Journals 5,211 



Geology 355 



-Agriculture 323 



Botany 267 



General Natural History 182 



Geography 152 



Voyages and Travels 103 



Ornithology 58 



Entomology 54 



.\natomy and Physiology 40 



Conchology 32 



Anthropology 28 



Helmintholog.v 27 



Bibliography 24 



Ichthyology 20 



Mammalogy 15 



Physical Sciences 12 



Medicine 11 



Herpetology 8 



Mineralogy 8 



Chemistry 1 



Miscellaneous 21 



The general condition of the Library has been further improved by 

 the binding of 2,010 volumes. It is hoped that in a year or so the 

 arrearages will have received such attention that the appropriations 

 for bindings may be largely decreased. 



In compliance with the action of the Council of the Academy, 1,318 

 volumes were sent to the California Academy of Sciences to assist in 

 repairing the loss inflicted by earthquake and fire on the 18th of last 

 April. The collection included a nearl}' complete set of the Proceed- 




1906.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



iNGS and Journal of the Academy bound and, in common with the 

 other volume?, appropriately labelled so as to indicate the source and 

 object of the gift. A letter of acknowledgment recently received 

 conveys the assurance that the books will be an important assistance 

 to the California Academy, the members of which, in common with all 

 the people of San Francisco, displayed such superb courage and for- 

 titude under an almost overwhelming affliction. The boxes were sent 

 to California through the Smithsonian Institution. 



Many duplicates received from corresponding societies had for j-ears 

 been accumulating in the Library of the Academy. After a selection 

 had been sent to the California Academy, the Library Committee and 

 the Council directed the return of the remainder to the publishing 

 societies, in the hope that a similar favor might be secured in the case 

 of duplicates of the Academy's publications. 



Parcels therefore have been sent through the International Bureau 

 of Exchange to 215 societies, each accompanied by the following 

 notice: "The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia returns 

 duplicates of publications received from corresponding societies, 

 and requests that duplicate numbers of its Journal and Proceed- 

 ings be returned, either by post or through the International 

 Bureau of Exchange." It is hoped that this action may result in an 

 addition to the stock of the earlier issues of the Academy's publications, 

 several of which are nearlj- out of print. 



Seventy-eight volumes and 256 pamphlets, publications of the 

 Department of Agriculture, U. S. Geological Survey, Bureau of Educa- 

 tion, etc., have been returned to the Government Printing Office, in 

 compliance with the law. The greater niunber of these were dupli- 

 cates, but some were works not pertinent to the Academy's Librar}-. 

 About thirty-seven volumes belonging to the latter class were given 

 to the Free Library of Philadelphia. 



Cards have been prepared to be placed in the spaces left by books 

 kept in the study rooms for use, thus in a measure remedying the incon- 

 venience arising from such retention. 



The necessity for additional room in some of the departments of 

 the Library becomes annually more pressing. In view of the possi- 

 bility of an increase of the Academy's building in the near future 

 certain of the additions are placed temporarily, not always in con- 

 formity with the system of classification, in the hope that the required 

 increase in the shelving capacity of the Library may be secured. 



Ten cases are still to be shelf-listed in the department of Journals 

 and Periodicals, although the work has continued during the year as 

 steadily as the time at the disposal of the Assistant would permit. 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Three hundred and thirty-nine lantern sHdes have been added to the 

 collection as a loan from the Ludwick Institute. These are dis- 

 tinguished in the catalogue by blue cards. 



The intelligence and reliability of my assistant, William J. Fox, in the 

 discharge of his duties, both in the Library and in connection with the 

 publications of the Academy, are again gladly acknowledged. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The collections in the care of the Curators are in excellent condition, 

 while much progress has been made during the year in their study and 

 classification. 



Early in the year work was begun upon the new concrete and steel 

 roof for the Library building, for which the Academy received an appro- 

 priation of 120,000 from the State of Pennsylvania, and by the begin- 

 ning of the autumn it had been completed. The new roof is a needed 

 improvement, being thoroughly waterproof and fireproof, while it 

 admits an abundance of light to the Museum galleries. 



This work necessitated the temporary closing of the old Museum to 

 the public and the removal of all the collections from the upper gallery, 

 while the cases on the lower floor had to be boarded up for their better 

 protection. The rearrangement of the collections is now in progress 

 and will be pushed rapidly during the coming year. 



Two thousand and si.xteen cubic feet of exhibition cases uniform 

 with those previously installed have been ordered for birds, inver- 

 tebrate fossils and the McCook collection of insect architecture. 



A number of air-tight metal storage cases have been provided for the 

 bird and mammal skins and for the Herbarium. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continued his exploration of the Indian 

 mounds of the Gulf States and has still further enriched his unrivalled 

 collection. 



Through the liberality of Mrs. Charles Schaeffer, Mr. Stewardson 

 Brown was enabled to spend two months collecting botanical speci- 

 mens in the Canadian Rockies, where he obtained about 4,000 plants 

 representing 700 species. 



Dr. Henry Skinner visited Idaho in the interest of the Academy for 




1906.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



the purpose of making entomological collections, but a serious attack 

 of illness materially interfered with his work. 



Dr. H. A. Pilsbry spent October and November in the prosecution 

 of his studies on the moUuscan fauna of Arizona. 



In addition to these extended expeditions many local collecting 

 trips have been undertaken by the members of the Museum staff and 

 much valuable material secm-ed. 



Among the more notable accessions to the Museimi during the year 

 may be mentioned the GuUck collection of Hawaiian mollusks. which 

 formed the basis of ilr. Gulick's well-known paper on "Evolution, 

 Racial and Habitudinal ' ' ; the collection of bird skins formed by the 

 late Canon Tristram, of Durham, England, representing over 3,000 

 species from all parts of the world, a large proportion of them new to 

 the Academy's collection; and another valuable collection of marine 

 invertebrates from Naples, presented by Dr. Henrj' C. Chapman. 



A niunber of valuable mammals received from the Zoological Society 

 of Philadelphia or by purchase have been mounted by the taxidermist 

 and many others prepared as skins or skeletons. Considerable addi- 

 tions have been made to the alcoholic series in Herpetolog\-. 



In addition to the services rendered by the Miiseum staff the Curators 

 are indebted to Dr. P. P. Calvert, Messrs. E. T. Cresson, Jr., and H. W. 

 Wenzel for aid in the Entomological department, and to Mr. S. S. 

 Van Pelt in the Herbarium. 



Details of the year's work in several departments are appended. In 

 addition Dr. J. P. iloore has continued the care and study of the 

 Hebninthological collections, and Mr. H. W. Fowler of the Fishes, 

 while Miss H. N. Wardle has made progress in cataloguing and arrang- 

 ing the Archaeological collections. 



The Anti-Tuberculo.?is Society. Philadelphia Botanical Club, and 

 Delaware "N^alley Ornithological Club have held their meetings in the 

 Academy during the j-ear. The collections have been consulted by 

 many visiting scientists and specimens have been loaned to Robert 

 Ridg^-ay, H. W. Henshaw, H. I. Smith, C. Hart Merriam, D. G. Elliot, 

 M. W. Lyon, H. F. Osborn, E. B. WiUiamson, Frank Stephens, G. W. 

 Clapp, A. N. Caudell, 0. P. Hay, O. A. Peterson, G. S. MiUer, Jr., F. 

 C. Baker, LawTence Bruner, Earl Douglass, and E. W. Nelson. 



Samuel G. Dixox, 



Curator. 



Report of the Special Curator of the Dep.artment of Mollusca. 



Early ia the year the entire collection of mollusks was removed from 

 the upper gaUerj-, and has remained packed up during the construction 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



of the new roof of the Museum. New cases have now been ordered, 

 which will enable us to rearrange the specimens during the coming 

 year. Meanwhile work has been continued upon such parts of the 

 collection as were accessible. 



Large accessions have been received from numerous correspondents 

 of the Curator. A list of these gifts may be found in the accessions 

 to the Museum. The largest single accession has been the collection 

 of Hawaiian land snails purchased from Dr. John T. Gulick. This 

 series served as the basis of that author's important studies on evolution, 

 as well as his systematic papers on the Hawaiian fauna. Mr. H. 

 Bloomfield Moore has contributed largely to our series of small land 

 mollusks of Georgia and Florida by gatherings of leaves and humus, 

 from which large munbers of shells have been picked by Mr. Vanatta. 



The Special Curator has been occupied chiefly with the preparation 

 of the jMaxual of Conchology, the monograph of the family 

 Achatinidce being completed this year, and the collections of this group 

 revised and relabelled. Studies of American and Japanese mollusks 

 have also been continued. The months of October and November 

 were spent in Arizona and New Mexico, chiefly in the Grand Canyon 

 of the Colorado, the Florida and Chiricahua Mountains, and large 

 collections of the mollusca of these regions were obtained. 



Mr. E. G. Vanatta has continued his efficient work as Assistant in the 

 department throughout the year. 



H. A. PiLSBRY, 



Special Curator. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 

 The Biological and Microscopical Section. 



The Section has held nine stated and several informal meetings with 

 the usual attendance. 



The donations reported by the Conservator are as follows; One 

 Zentmayer histological microscope with three objectives; one Fiddian 

 and one Acme microscope lamp; about 400 slides, including two 

 MoUer type plates and an arranged monogram mount by Thum; 

 about twenty-five books, including Van Heurck's Diatoms of Belgium, 

 the Micrographic Dictionary, and a lot of immounted material and 

 mounting apparatus. All the above are from the collection of the late 

 John C. Wilson, presented by Miss Maria S. Wilson. 




1906.] 



NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHIIiADELPHIA. 



589 



Five slides of marine invertebrates, collected by Dr. Chapman and 

 mounted by the Conservator. 



At the regular meetings nimaerous communications have been made 

 by the members on such subjects as rock inclusions, Diatoms, Myxomy- 

 cetes and Bacteria. 



There has been a slight increase in membership. 



The officers elected for the year 1907 are as follows : 



Director, 



Vice-Director, 



Treasurer, 



Recorder, 



Conservator, . 



Corresponding Secretary, 



J. Cheston Morris, M.D. 

 T. Chalkley Pabner, 

 Thomas S. Stewart, M.D. 

 Charles S. Boyer. 

 F. J. Keeley. " 

 Silas L. Schumo. 



Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section. 



Nine meetings of the Mineralogical and Geological Section were held 

 during the j-ear with a fair attendance, and the finances of the Section 

 are in good condition. Seven excursions were made to interesting 

 localities and proved to be enjoyable to all who participated in them, 

 as well as an agreeable method of study and recreation. There was an 

 average attendance on these occasions of about 30. 



At the annual meeting held December 17, 1906, the following 

 officers were elected : 



Director, 

 Vice-Director. 

 Treasurer, 

 Recorder, 

 Conservator, . 



Respectfully submitted, 



Benjamin Smith Lyman. 

 George Vaux, Jr. 

 Emma Walker. 

 Mary S. Holmes. 

 Frank J. Keeley. 



George Vaux, Jr., 

 Vice-Director. 



The Entomological Section. 



The regular monthy meetings have been held, except during July and 

 August, with an attendance of 11 persons. The proceedings of the Sec- 

 39 




590 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



tion have been published in the Entomological News. Yohime XVII 

 of this journal has been completed with 404 pages and 15 plates. The 

 number of authors contributing articles was 92. Two thousand two hun- 

 dred and seventeen insects were added to the collection. Nearly all of 

 these have been properly incorporated in the cabinets. The number 

 added this year has not been as great as in the two previous years, but 

 there have been a number of valuable types presented and many gaps 

 filled. The more important additions were 460 insects of various 

 orders from P. P. Calvert; 305 Pennsylvania and New Jersey specimens 

 with accurate data; 175 from Arizona, H. A. Pilsbry; collections from 

 Mexico and the Western States from Henry Skinner ; a collection from 

 ^linnesota, Witmer Stone; a valuable lot of mosquitoes from New 

 Jersey, H. L. Viereck; blind Carabidae from caves in Europe, H. W. 

 Wenzel, and a small collection from Panama from H. E. Wetherill. The 

 efficiency of the metal case or cabinet has been further demonstrated 

 during the past simimer. Some insects kept in wooden cases were 

 damaged by mould, owing to the excessive dampness and leakage of 

 the temporary roof on the building. At a meeting held December 27, 

 the following officers were elected to serve for 1907: 



Director, . 



Vice-Director, . 



Treasurer, 



Recorder, 



Secretary, 



Conservator, 



Pvhlication Committee 



Philip Laurent. 



H. W. Wenzel. 



E. T. Cresson. 



Henry Skinner. 



J. H. Ridings. 



Henry Skinner. 

 j J. H.' Ridings, 

 \ E. T. Cresson. 



Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 



The Botanical Section. 



During the past year the work of placing the specimens in species 

 covers was begun, the work in more than half of the Herbarium being 

 completed to date; the balance will be arranged in the early part of 

 the coming year. 



Additions to the Herbarium have numbered about 9,000 sheets; of 

 these we have received as an exchange from the New York Botanical 

 Gardens of about 1,100, including a set of 899 sheets of Dr. Abrams' 

 Southern California plants, 87 sheets from Central America and the 




1906.] NATURAL SaENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



West Indies and 100 Characeas from the herbarium of the late Dr. T. F. 

 Allen. 



Specimens have been presented by Dr. Ida A. Keller and Messrs. 

 Joseph Crawford, Charles S. Williamson, Bayard Long, Benjamin H. 

 Smith, Stewardson Brown, Samuel S. Van Pelt, Dr. John W. Harsh- 

 berger, Witmer Stone and the Philadelphia Botanical Club, from vari- 

 ous parts of the eastern United States, amounting to about the same 

 number. 



The Section has purchased the following: From Mr. A. A. Heller, 

 2,400 Calif ornian plants; from Dr. Charles H. Shaw, 545 British Colum- 

 bian plants; from A. 0. Garrett, 100 Utah plants; from Dr. J. W. 

 Blankinship, 5S3 Montana plants. 



Through the liberality of Mrs. Charles Schaeffer, the Conservator 

 was enabled to spend the months of June and July collecting in the 

 Canadian Rocky ^Mountains, in the provinces of Alberta and British 

 Columbia. More than 4,000 specimens were made, covered by over 

 800 numbers. Several sets of duplicates of this collection will be 

 available for exchange. 



Valuable assistance has been rendered by Miss Ada Allen in mounting 

 specimens and Francis W. Pennell in cataloging and arranging sama 



The Philadelphia Botanical Club has continued to hold its meetings 

 at the Academy during the year, about 1,800 sheets having been added 

 to the local Herbarium, which has been assiduously cared for by Mr. 

 Samuel S. \'an Pelt, its curator. 



At the annual meeting of the Botanical Section the following were 

 elected to ser\-e as its officers for the coming year : 



Director, ...... Benjamin H. Smith. 



Vice-Director, ..... Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder, ..... Charles S. Williamson. 



Treasurer and Conservator, . . . Stewardson Brown. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Stewardson Brown, 



Conservator. 



The Ornithological Section. 



During the past year the remainder of the mounted birds, with the 

 exception of the song birds and ostriches, were removed to the new 

 building and placed in the cases provided for them, all of the specimens 




592 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



being examined by the taxidermist and thoroughly cleansed. Three 

 new cases to accommodate the groups above mentioned are riow nearly 

 completed, so that the arrangement of the new bird gallery will be 

 finished at an early date. 



Ten additional cases have been procured for the study series of skins, 

 which is increasing at a rapid rate and is much consulted. 



During the past year the Academy secured bj- purchase the collection 

 of bird skiiLS belonging to the late Canon Tristram, of Durham, Eng- 

 land. This comprises about 7,000 specimens, representing some 

 3,000 species, the avifauna of British Guiana and of various insular 

 groups being particularly well represented. Altogether it forms one of 

 the most notable accessions that has been made to the Ornithological 

 department and brings the total number of specimens in the Academy's 

 collection close to 55,000, while it adds a large number of forms previ- 

 ously unrepresented in our series. 



Several nests and sets of eggs have been added to the Delaware 

 Valley Ornithological Club Collection, rendering this local exhibit still 

 more nearly complete. 



The Club has held its meetings in the building of the Academy 

 during the year, and its members, as well as many visiting ornithol- 

 ogists, have studied the collections. 



Mr. J. A. G. Rehn has rendered important service during the year 

 in cataloguing and arranging the accessions. 



At the annual meeting of the Section the following officers were 

 elected : 



Director, . 



Vice-Director, . 



Secretary, 



Recorder, 



Treasurer and Conservator, 



Spencer Trotter, M.D. 

 George Spencer Morris. 

 William A. Shryock. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 Witmer Stone. 



Wither Stone, 



Co7iservator. 



The amiual election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the 

 Committee on Accounts to serve during 1907 was held with the follow- 

 ing result: 




1906.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



593 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, 



Councillors to serve three y"ears 



Committee on Accounts, . 



Councillor to serve an unexpired 



TERM OF two Y"EARS, . 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 



Arthiir Envin Brown, 

 Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 

 George Vaiix, Jr. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, 

 Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 William S. Vaux, Jr. 

 Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., 

 Thomas Biddle, M.D., 

 Frederick Prime. 

 Charles ilorris, 

 Samuel N. Rhoads, 

 Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, 

 John G. Rothermell, 

 Howard Crawley, Ph.D 



Hem-y Tucker, :M.D. 



COUNCIL FOR 1907. 



Ex-offlcio.—SsLm\ie\ G. Dixon, M.D., Edwin G. Conklin, M.D., 

 Arthur Erwin Brown. Edward J. Nolan, M.D., J. Percj^ Moore, Ph.D., 

 George Vaux, Jr., Henrj' A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., and WiUiam S. Vaux, Jr. 



To serve Three Years.— Dt. C. Newlin Peirce, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., 

 Thomas Biddle, M.D., and Frederick Prime. 



To serve Two I'cctrs.^Charles B. Penrose, il.D., Cliarles ^lorris, 

 Benjamin Sharp, M.D., and Henry Tucker, M.D. 



To serve One Year. — Thomas Fenton, M.D., Edwin S. Dixon, John 

 Cadwalader and Horatio C. Wood, M.D. 



Curator of Mollusca, 

 Assistant Libr.arian, 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 

 William J. Fox. 




594 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Assistants to Curators, 



Taxidermist, . 

 Jessup Fund Students, 



Janitors, . 



Witmer Stone, 

 Henrj' Skinner, M.D., 

 Stewardson Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 J. A. G. Rehn, 

 H. Xewell Wardle. 

 David McCadden. 

 H. Newell Wardle, 

 J. A. G. Rehn, 

 Francis Pennell. 

 Charles Clappier, 

 Daniel Heckler, 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aebley. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1906. 



MEMBERS. 



Jammry 16. — Herbert S. Jennings, Ph.D., Rob't Grier LeConte, M.D., 

 Henry Leffman, M.D. 

 February 20.— R. E. B. McKenney, D. H. Tennant, Edward S. Miles. 

 March 20. — Francis William Rawle. 

 April 17. — Oglesby Paul, Norton Downs, M.D. 

 May 15. — Walter F. Herzberg. 




1906.1 NATURAL SCTENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



ADDITIONS TO MUSEUM. 

 Mammals. 



Col. Geohge S. Ajjderson. Fruit Bat (Pteropus sp.), Civet Cat (Vivera 

 tangalunga), Luzon, Philippines. 



P. P. Calvert. Two skulls of Lepus, Chihuahua, Mexico. 



W. S. Dickinson. Skull of melanistic Marsh Hare. 



J. G. DiLLiN. Putorius noveboracensis, Bucks county, Pennsylvania. 



W. O. Emerson. Five skins of mammals, California. 



How.\RD FuGUET. Grevy's Zebra (Equus greryi). 



George L. Harrison, Jr. Water Buck (Kobus), Red Buck (Cervicapra) . 



David McCadden. Woodchucks {Marmota monax), Chester county, Pennsyl- 

 vania. Old and young. Fcetus of Gray Squirrel. 



Medico-Chir0rgical College. Several mammalian embryos. 



C. J. Pennock. European Ferret. 



Purchased. Mink (Putorius vison), New Jersey. 



S. N. Rhoads. Bonaparte's Weasel (Putorius cicognani). 



Burnett Smith. Bull Dog, for skeleton. 



H. L. Viereck. Brown Bat (Vespertilio fuscus). 



C. L. Wilson. Four Black Rats (Mus rattus), Glenolden, Pennsylvania. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared as follows: 

 Mounted: Antelope Kangaroo (Macropus antilopenus), Ratel (Mellivora indica), 

 Lioness (Felis lea). Skin and skull: Beaver (Castor fiber), Himalayan Bear 

 (Ursus tibetanus), Panda (Aelurus julgens), Ocelot (Felis pardalis), Arabian Gazelle 



■( ), Florida Otter (Lutra hudsonica vaga). Central American Puma 



(Felis concolorcostaricensis). Skin: Kyra Cat (Felis eyra) . Skull: Young Steller's 

 SeaHEumeiopiasstelleri). Skeleton: Binturong (Arctictis binturong). 



BiRD.S. 



Col. George S. Anderson. Twelve skins of Philippine birds and egg of 

 Megapode. 



C. F. Baker. Skin of Icterus hypomelas, Cuba. 



Dr. C. Berbns. Goshawk (Astur atricapillus), Cape May, New Jersey. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Six nests and eggs of local birds 

 for the D. V. O. C. CoUection. 



George L. Harrison, Jr. Eggs of Maribou Stork, boundary of Soudan and 

 Abyssinia. 



PuRCH.iSED. H. B. Tristram collection of bird skins and mounted birds, 

 about 7,000 specimens. 



W. E. D. Scott. Trochalopterum canorum, skin. 



Edw.ard Singleton. Herring Gull (Larus argentatus) , mounted. 



Zoological Society op Phil.adelphi.v. Skins of Spindalis pretrei, Conurus 

 wagleri, Bhamphastos ambiguus, Turtur turtur risoria, Lagonosticta larvata, Buteo 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



albicaudata, Goura vldOTia. Skeleton of Sagittarius serpentarius. Egg of Cal- 

 locephalon galeatum. 



Reptiles and Batrachians. 



: Dr. C. C. Abbott. Snake. 



R. C. Abbott. Green Snake, Vermont. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. Tliirty-seven jars of Reptiles and Batracliians. 



P. P. Calvert. Homed Toad (Phrynosoma), Chihuahua, Mexico. 



Dr. D. M. Castle. Two Anolis priricipalis, Tybee Island, Georgia. 



C. H. CoNXER. Two eggs of Water Turtle, Union Mills, New Jersej'. 



J. W. Corriston. Horned Toad (Phrynosoma). 



Howard Crawley. Tadpoles of Raiia palustris. 



H. W. Fowler. Collections of Batrachia from various points in Pennsylvania 

 and New Jersey. Red-bellied Terrapin, Denms\-ille, Cape May county. New 

 Jersey. 



H. W. Fowxer and T. D. Keim. Kinostemon from Neshaminy Creek and 

 collection of Reptiles and Batrachians from Potter county, Pennsylvania. 



H. W. Fowler and Witmer Stone. Collection of Reptiles and Batrachians, 

 York Furnace, York county, Pennsylvania. 



Medico-Chirurgic-AL College. Several Reptiles. 



Francis Pennell. Raria clamata and cateshiana, Acris gryllus and Plethodon, 

 Wawa, Delaware county, Pennsylvania. 



S. N. Rhoads. Acris gryllus, Nockamixon, Pennsylvania. 



C. F. Sands. Ground Rattlesnake, Kansas. 



O. P. Satterthwaite. Milk Snake, Ophibolus g. doliatus, Wawa, Pennsj'lvania. 



S. L. Shumo. Y'oung Terrapene Carolina, Glemnoor, Chester county, Permsyl- 

 vania. 



Dr. H. Skinner. Three Lizards, Idaho. 



WiTMER Stone. Wood Frog (Rana sylvatica), Medford, New Jersey. 



George B. Wood. Head of Sea Turtle, Florida. Snake, West Palm Beach, 

 Florida. 



Dr. H. C. Wood. Several Reptiles, Jamaica. 



H. a. Van Vleck. Eggs of ICing Snake, Florida. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Spilotes corais, intermediate between 

 couperi and melanurus; Leopard Tortoise, Clemmys marmoratus. 



Fishes. 



C. C. Abbott, M.D. Blennoid Fish from Oyster. 



R. C. Abbott. Collection of Fishes from Nantucket, Massachusetts. 



J. G. DiLLiN. Pomoxis, Bucks coimtj', Pennsylvania. 



W. J. Epting. Gasierosteu^ atkinsii, Jackman, Maine. 



H. W. Fowler, C. C. Abbott, M.D., and T. D. Keim. Collection of Fishes, 

 Crosswicks Creek, New Jersey. 



H. W. Fowler and DA^^D McCadden. Collection of Fishes, Stone Harbor, 

 New Jersey. 



H. W. Fowler and T. D. Keim. Collections of Fishes, Neshaminy Creek, 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



Pennsylvania, and headwaters of the Allegheny, Genesee and Susquehanna 

 Rivers. 



H. W. Fowler and Witiier Stone. Collection of Fishes, York Furnace, 

 York county, Pennsylvania. 



H. W. Fowler and C. J. Hunt. Collection of Fishes, Pensauken Creek, New 

 Jersey. 



H. W. Fowler. Collections of Fishes from Cape May, New Jersey, Emporium 

 and Bristol, Penns}-lvania. 



William J. Fox. Two barrels of Fish and tliirty-one additional specimens 

 from Sea Isle City, New Jersey, including the Eagle Ray {Myliobates freminvillii) , 

 Tliread Herring (Clupanodon oglinum), Gar {Tylosurus raphidoma), Halfbeak 

 (Hemiramphus brasiliensis), Angel Fish {Pomacanthus arcuatus), Sail Fish 

 {Istiophorus nigricans) . 



George Z. Hartman. Collection of Fishes, Palermo, New Jersey. 



S. P. Heilman. Goldfish. 



C. A. HiGGiNS. Series of Food Fishes from Great Lakes. 



P. Lorrilliere. Brook Trout (Salmo fontinalis), Pennsylvania. 



H. a. Pilsbry. Perch and several Eels, Delanco, New Jersey. 



Dr. H. Senior. Two Fish, Hiodon and Coregonus. 



Dr. H. Skinner. Jar of Fish, Idaho. 



U. S. Fish Commission. Collection of Fishes. 



U. S. National Museum. Citharichthys microslomus, Ocean City, New Jersey. 



George B. Wood. Skeleton of Puffer; jaws of Shark; bones of Barracuda; 

 collection of Fishes, West Palm Beach, Florida. 



Insects. 



William Beutenmuller. Two hundred Coleoptera, North Carolina. 



C. R. Biederman. Eight Coleoptera, .Arizona. 

 P. BioLLET. Eighty-nine Orthoptera, Costa Rica. 



Brooklyn Institute. Eighteen Orthoptera, South America and Tonkin. 

 A. E. Brown. Three Mallophaga, Philadelphia. 

 L. Bruner. One Ortlioptera, British Guiana. 



P. P. Calvert. Six insects. New York, and four hundred and sixty insects 

 from Mexico. 



D. M. Castle. Twelve Coleoptera, United .States. 

 T. D. A. Cockerell. Two Hymenoptera, Colorado. 



E. T. Cresson. One Hjinenoptera, United States. 



J. C. Craweord. Twenty-five Hymenoptera, Costa Rica, and one, Nebraska 



E. Daecke. Ten' Diptera, New Jersey. 



H. W. Fowler. Twent3'-seven insects, Pennsylvania. 

 W. J. Fox. Twelve Coleoptera, New Jersey. 

 Joseph Grinnell. Tliirty Orthoptera, California. 



F. Haimbach, Four Lepidoptera, New Jersey. 



H. D. HocHENBERRY'. Specimen of wood bored by Bees. 

 Carl Ilg. Thirty Lepidoptera, Philadelphia. 



G. M. Greene. Three hundred and five insects from^Pennsylvania. 

 M. Hebard. Twenty-five Orthoptera, Jerusalem. 



Bayard Long. Seventy-five Orthoptera, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 




598 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



D. N. McCadden. Four Diptera, New Jersey. 



R. E. Nicholson. One Lepidoptera, Pennsj-lvania. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. One hundred and seventy-five insects, Arizona. 



Dr. C. W. Richmond. Two Spiders, Pennsylvania. 



Henry Skinner. Fifty-nine Lepidoptera, United States.; fortj--five Lepidop- 

 tera, California; fifty Odonata, Idaho; seventy Lepidoptera, Colima, Mexico; 

 twenty-seven Diptera, Idaho; five Lepidoptera, Japan; two Odonata, Yellow- 

 stone Park; fourteen Odonata, Pennsylvania; thirty-three Lepidoptera, Idaho. 



WiTMER Stone. One hundred and thirty-nine insects, Minnesota. 



H. L. Viereck. Fifty-nine Diptera, New Jersey; fifty-three Hymenoptera, 

 Pennsylvania; twenty-five insects. United States. 



H. W. Wenzel. Eighteen Coleoptera, Europe. 



H. E. Wetherell. Thirty-three insects, Panama. 



H. F. WicKHAM. Eight Coleoptera, United States. 



Joseph Willcox. Scorpion, Florida. 



MOLLUSCA. 



Mrs. Helen G. Abbott. Pyramidula alternata Say and Lymncea megasoma 

 Say from Lake Minnetonka, Minnesota. 



Jacob Aebly. VMparus malleatus Rve., five and one-half ^-ears old, raised in 

 an aquarium. 



A. and J. Daily. Eight trays of American land and marine shells. 



C. F. B.*.KER. Ten trays of Cuban marine shells. 



F. C. Baker. Nine species of American fresh-water shells. 



W. T. Bednall. Four Chitons from Port Elliott, South Australia. 



Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum. Fifteen species of Hawaiian Island land 

 shells in exchange. 



C. R. Biederil\n. Pisidium from Reef, Arizona. 



FoRTUN.A^TO Bonis. Fifteen species of land shells from Cauca, Colombia. 



J. Chester Bradley. Tliree trays of fresh-water shells from the Selkirk 

 Mountains, British Columbia. 



Stewardson Brown. Thirty-three species of land and marine shells from 

 Bermuda, and twenty trays of land and fresh-water shells from British Columbia. 



George H. Clapp. Four species of land and fresh-water shells from North 

 America. 



T. D. A. CoCKERELL. Twelve traii-s of land and fresh-water shells from New 

 Mexico. 



H. S. Colton. Strombus pugilis L. from Clearwater Harbor, Florida. 



Charles H. Conner. Two Unios from the Delaware River. 



L. E. Daniels. Segmentina crassilahris Wkr. from White and Knox counties, 

 Indiana. 



Dr. S. G. Dixon. Three species of fresh-water shells from Puzzle Lake, 

 Ontario. 



J. H. Ferriss. Six species of Western land shells. 



H. W. Fowler. Fifteen trays of shelb from Potter and McKean counties, 

 Pennsylvania. 



William J. Fox. Loligo from Sea Isle City, New Jersey. 



L. S. Frierson. Three species of land shells from near Frierson, Louisiana. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 599 



B. W. Greenwood. One pearl from Ostrea virginica Gmel. 

 A. GuLiCK. Eulota blakeana from Sapporo, Japan. 



Dr. H.\rshberger. Five land shells from Harrington Sound, Bermuda. 

 MoRG.iX Heb.^^rd. Eight species of Achatinella. 



C. Hedlby. Tellina jabrejacta Pils. from Masthead Island, Queensland. 

 Angelo Heilprin. Cerioii tiva L. and Tudora megacheila P. M., Curagao. 



J. B. Henderson. Jr. Opeas gracile Hutt from Port au Prince, Haiti, and 

 Zonitoides arborea Say from Cazeno^^a, New York. 



Junius Henderson. Eight traj-s of land and fresh-water shells from Colorado. 



Dr. H. M. Hiller. Nine species of Cuban land shells. 



A. A. HiNKLEY. P^our fresh-water shells from .\labama. 



Y. Hir.\se. a Sitala from China. 



Mrs. Agnes F. Kenyon. Twenty-nine species of marine shells from Victoria, 

 Australia. 



N. W. Lermoxd. Twenty trays of land shells from Maine. 



H. H. Lewis. .\n Octopus from Bahama Islands. 



Miss E. L. Lundy. Fourteen traj^ of marine and fresh-water shells. 



Dr. F. M. MacFarland. Phijsa from Grand Canyon, Arizona. 



J. G. Malone. Sixteen traj-s of land and fresh-water shells from Washington 

 and Oregon. 



R. V. Mann. Oreohelix depressa Ckll. from near Boulder, Colorado. 



W. E. Meehan. Margaritana moTgaritifera L. from Still Creek, Schuylkill 

 county, Pennsylvania. 



Milwaukee Public Museum. Seventy trays of fresh-water shells. 



Clarence B. Moore. Seventy-three trays of land and fresh- water shells from 

 Georgia, Alabama and Florida. 



Dr. William A. N.\son. Three species of land shells. 



F. Pennell. Two land shells from Wawa, Pennsylvania. 



H. a. Pilsbry. Three hundred and nineteen trays of land and fresh-water 

 shells. 



PuRCH.iSED. The J. Gulick Collection of Hawaiian land shells, containing 

 five hundred and sixtN'-five trays. Three hundred and thirty-one trays of Ala- 

 bama fresh-water shells, collected by H. H. Smith. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Six trays of fresh-water shells from Cornwells, Bucks count}', 

 Pennsylvania. 



S. N. Rhoads. Sixty-four tra)-s of land and fresh-water shells from Eastern 

 United States. 



J. Ritchie, Jr. Twenty-one trays of land and marine shells. 



Mrs. Schaeffer and Miss James. Six species of land and fresh-water shells 

 from British Columbia. 



Dr. B. Sh.\rp. Two trays of Ostrea virginica. 



Dr. H. Skinner. Seven trays of land and fresh-water shells from Idaho, 

 Montana and Indiana. 



Dr. V. Sterki. Two land shells from Ohio. 



WiTMER Stone and H. W. Fowler. Twelve trays of land and fresh-water 

 shells from Pennsylvania and Minnesota. 



D. Thaanum. Seven Hawaiian land shells. 



W. G. ToRR. Seven Chitons from South Australia. 



Dr. R. H. Tremper. Epiphragmophora tudiculata Binn. from Ontario, Cali- 

 fornia. 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



E. G. Vanatta. Fifteen trays of land shells from the Eastern United States. 



T. A' AN Htning. Three trays of land and fresh-water shells from Iowa. 



H. L. ViERECK. Five species of land and marine shells from Connecticut and 

 New Jersey. 



Bhtant Walker. Tliirteen species of land and fresh-water shells from Michi- 

 gan, Minnesota and Indiana. 



Walter F. Webb. Twelve species of East Indian land and fresh-water 

 shells. 



Rev. W. H. Webster. Ten species of Monodonta and Calliostoma from New 

 Zealand. 



Edward E. Wildmax. Purpura lapillus L. from Greenings Island, Maine, 

 and Woods Hole, Massachusetts. 



.1. WiLLCOX. Two species of fresh- water and marine shells from Sarasota Bay, 

 Florida. 



H. T. Wolf. Lymnoca slagnalls L. from an aquarium. 



Worms. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Three bottles of Pohjchosta, two Myzostoma and a 

 Nematode. 



H. B. Davis. Ta-nia serrala. 



H. W. Fowler. Erpohdella punciala, Gordius, Placobdella. 



W. J. Fox. Ascaris from Codfish. 



C. B. Moore. Fridcricia , Florida. 



J. P. Moore. Planaria gonocephala and Glossiphonia, Dasychone and Poma- 

 toslegus; three hundred and thirty-eight bottles of Polychoeta. 



Dr. C. B. Penrose. Plychobotkrium and Filaria immitis. 



Prof. C. E. Porter. Glossiphonia and Geoplana. 



Mrs. Charles Schaeffer. Planaria, British Columbia. 



Misses Stevens and Boring. Four bottles of Planaria morgani, including the 



tj-pe- 

 Prof. A. L. Treadwell. Twelve species of Polychwta. 

 E. G. Vanatta. Allolobophora longa, M.aryland. 

 W. M. Wheeler. Nine species of Myzostomata, including several cotypes. 



Cri'stacea, Echinodermata, etc. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Sixty-two jars of invertebrates from Naples, Italy. 

 William J. Fox. A Starfish from Sea Isle City, New Jersey. 

 Mrs. Agnes F. Kenyon. One jar of Crustacea from Victoria, Australia. 

 Miss E. L. Lundy. Two corals. 



S. Edward Paschall. One jar of Hermit Crabs from the south coast of Haiti. 

 H. L. Viereck. .\ Starfish from Double Beach, Connecticut. 

 J. WiLLCOX. A jar of Scorpions from Sarasota Bay, Florida. 

 Helen Winchester. Lepas from Ocean Grove, New Jersey. 

 Woods Hole Biological Station. Ten Barnacles from Woods Hole, Massa- 

 chusetts. 



Archaeology. 



Dr. Cyrus A. Peterson. Model of Moreles Mound, Illinois. 

 E. P. CowELL. Cast of head of Negro. 




1906.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



■ Clarence B. Moore. Numerous additions to the C. B. Moore CoUectioa of 

 Indian pottery, etc., from the mounds of Southern Atlantic and Gulf States. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Clarence B. Moore. Two trays of fossil invertebrates from Georgia and 

 Florida. 



C. AuLOMETTE Shep.\rd. Latirus floridanus Heilpr. from Tampa, Florida. 

 Joseph Willcox. Seventy species of fossils from the Eastern United States. 

 Mrs. W. S. Bowen". Several fossil invertebrates. 



Minerals, etc. 



Miss E. L. Lundt. Miscellaneous collection of rocks, etc. 



J. L. North. Mill cinder (supposed meteorite), Sewell, New Jersey. 



E. A. PiTXLVN. Collection of minerals and rocks. 



Henry A. Schweyer. Serpentine slab, Easton, Pennsylvania. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp. Iron ore, Micliigan. 



William S. Vaitx Collection. Numerous specimens purchased. 



Pl.^NTS. 



Stew.vrdson Brown. Collection of Florida plants. 



Joseph Crawford. One hundred and fifty plants from various localities. 



Joseph Crawford, B.yyard Long and S. S. Van Pelt. One hundred and 

 twenty plants from the Adirondack Mountains, New York. 



Dr. John W. Harshberger. Fifty-five plants from Vermont. 



Dr. Id.^ a. Iveller. One hundred plants. Glen Onoko, Pennsylvania, and 

 Cape Vincent, New York. 



Bay.\.rd Long. Fifty plants, Pocono region of Pennsylvania. 



New York Botaxic.vl Gardens. General collection of about 1,100 speci- 

 mens, in exchange ; principally from Southern California, Central America and 

 the West Indies. 



Philadelphi.v Bot.vxic.il Club, through v.vrious of its Members. Two 

 thousand plants. 



Benjamin H. Smith. Small collection of plants from various localities. 



WiTMER Stone. Eighty-five specimens of plants from Minnesota. 



United St.ytes N.vtion.vl Museum, in Exchange. Specimens of Viola 

 pairUeri, Townsendia wilcoxiana and Phillopterus macrorhizus. 



Charles S. Willi.\mson. Fifty plants from various localities. 



Francis Windle. Specimen of Panicum phitadelphicum . 



AcADEMi' Expeditions. Canadian Rocky Mountains, Stewardson Brown 

 collector, four thousand specimens. Arizona, Dr. H. A. Pilsbry collector, two 

 hundred and fifty specimens. 



Botanical Section — Plants Purchased. J. W. Blankenship, Montana, 

 583; A. A. Heller, Western America, 1,403; A. O. Garrett, Utah, 100; Charles H. 

 Shaw, Selkirk flora, 545. 




602 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



INDEX TO SPECIES, ETC.. DESCRIBED AND REFERRED TO 

 IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1906. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy- faced, synonyms by 

 italic numerals. 



Abramites 331 



Abudef duf saxatilis 488 



Acanthinula 530 



Acanthostracion tricornis... 103 



Acerina cernua 526 



Acestrorhamphus hepsetus 460 



AcestrorhiiTichus 462 



abbreWatus 461 



brachycephalus 460 



falcirostris 462 



heterolepis - - 462 



Achatinella -— 148 



AchatinellidEe — 148 



Achatinidffi 148, 149 



Achurura 10, 1 1 



Acontista 273 



perspicua. 273 



Acrida - 10 



Acrididse - 363 



Aeridinse 10,363 



Acrolophitus - 363 



hirtipes - 363 



uniformis 363 



Acrydiina..., 363 



Acrydium 363 



compressicornis 20 



crassum 363 



granulatum _ 363 



iEoloplus 401 



chenopodii 385,401 



regalis 401 



Aerodramus — - - 179, 182 



Ageneotettix 39, 371 



deorum 371 



occidentalis - 371 



scudderi 371 



Agkistrodon contortrix 109 



Agriolimax campestris 533 



Akentetus.. 364 



unicolor — 364 



Albula vulpes - 81 



Albulidce - - 81 



] Alestes.. 442 



i affinis - 44^ 



I riippellii 444 



Alligator mississippiensis Ill 



Alopias vulpes 79 



Alopiidse 79 



Amaraecium 508 



pellucidum 506 



AmbassidEE 528 



Ambassis ranga 528 



Ambloplites... 513 



cavif rons .- 5 IS 



rupestris 513 



r. cavifrons 513 



Amblytropidia 18,19 



auriventris 19, 19 



australis 18, 18 



ferruginosa 18 



mysteca 19 



occidentalis 18 



trivitatis 19,19 



vittata 18, 18 



.\mblytropidiEe ...- 18 



Ammocrypta pellucida...- 524 



Ammotn-pane bre\'is 354 



Amnicola 172 



cincinnatiensis 171 



conialensis 125,171 



decisa 171 



limosa 171 



peracuta 171 



AmnicolidEe 170 



Amphicteis scaphobranchiata 255 



Araphitornis 364, 365 



coloradus '- 365 



Amphitrite attenuata 506 



.\mpullaria 125 



Anabropsis frater 284 



tonkinensis 284 



.A nabrus 416 



coloradus 417 



simplex _ 416 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADHLPHIA. 



603 



Anacyrtus affinis 457 



limaesquamus 454,454 



sanguineus 4^3,453 



tectifer 453,453 



Anaplecta 262 



dohrniana 262 



fulgida 263 



mexicana 262 



pulchella , 262 



Anchovia brownii 84, 87 



choerostoma - 87 



c. cayorum 85 



Ancylus excentricus 565 



liaklemani 564 



kirklancli _.. 564 



riviilaris 565 



tardus 565 



walkeri .' - 564 



Angela brachyptera 273 



fulgida...! - 273 



guianensis 273 



quinquemaculata 273 



trifasciata 273 



Angelichthvs ciliaris 102 



Anodus. ..-!.. 307 



elongatus 306, 307 



melanopogon 307,30* 



steatops 306 



Anolis principalis Ill 



AnostominEe 319 



Anostomus 320 



fasciatus 322 



Aphvocharax filigerus 334 



"pusillus - 333 



Apogon 526 



evanidus 527 



hyalosoma 527 



imberbis. 526 



lineatus 527 



maculiferus 527 



inenesemus 527 



niger 527 



notatus 527 



novemfasciatus 527 



retrosella 526 



semilineatus 527 



snyderi 527 



Apogonichthys americanus 526 



perdix 527 



stellatus 527, 528 



Apogonids 526 



Apomotis 515 



cyanellus 515 



obesus 515 



Arabella opalina _ 501 



spinifera 501 



Aracoda 502 



Archoplites interruptus 514 



Ariina effulgens 522 



Arphia 373 



arcta 374 



Arphia pseudonietana 360, 373 



Asiphonichthys sternopterus 452 



Asperulus 526 



asper 526 



zingel , 526 



Astrapogon 527 



Astyanax 481 



abramis 439 



a^neus 346 



agassizii 438 



atahualpianus 436 



bartlettii 343 



bimaculatus 432 



caucanus 343 



chapada' 349 



diaphanus 333,339 



eigenmanniorum 346, 347 



fasciatus 346, 347, 348 



finitimus 344 



hauxwellianus 340,483 



iheringii . 347 



ipanquianus 337, 483 



jaculiiensis 435 



jenynsii 351 



jequitinhonse 435 



lacustris 433 



latioeps 347,348 



lepidurus 336 



lineatus 348 



longior 341 



maximus 342 



mexicanus .345, 346 



inoenkhausii 351 



moori 432 



oligolepis - 438 



orientalis 434, 435 



paucidens 351 



pectinatus 341 



phcenicopterus 338 



rutilus 435 



stilbe 431 



Atherina latioeps 91, 487 



Atherinids 91,487 



Athleta 64 



Atticora cinerea 195 



Auchenopterus marmoratus 108 



Auriculella 216 



Auriculidse 161 



Aulocara 39, 40, 372 



elliotti 372,373 



femoratum ; 388 



parallelum 388 



Axiothea campanulata 239 



Bairdiella ronchus 488 



Bascanion constrictor 109, 419 



Batrachidse 108 



Bathystoma rimator 99, 487 



Belonocharax 464 



beani 464 



Bifidaria 145 



armifera 144, 533, 547 




604 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Bifidaria ashmuni — 144 



contracta 144, 533, 557 



nodosaria 145 



pellucida 145 



p. hordeacella 143 



p. parvidens 144 



pentodon. 144, 533 



perversa 144 



procera 144, 533, 557 



p. cristata 125, 144 



tappaniana - 144, 533 



tuba.... 145,145 



Blabera postica 212 



Blaberus .._ 272 



biollej-i 273 



posticus _ - 272 



thoracicus 272 



Blatta gracilis ^1 



maculicollis Z70 



nitidula 27;? 



tomentosa 269 



viridis ^1 



Blatt«Ua...... - 267 



inexpectata. 268 



minor _ 267 



parana.. 268 



Blattids 262 



Blenniidffi 105,488 



Blenniinae 107 



Blennius cristatus 101, 107 



Bodianus rupestris 513 



Boleichthys fusiformis erochrous... 525 



f. gracilis 525 



f. palustris 525 



Boleosoma camurum 524 



effulgens 523 



maculaticeps 523 



nigrum 522 



n. maculaticeps 523 



n. messeum 523 



n. olmstedi 522 



olmstedi var. bre\-ipinnis 522 



phlox .- 525 



stigmaeiom 522 



Boopedon 39,42 



Borellia 31,36 



Boulengerella 464 



Boulengerina 512 



Brachyalestes 442 



affinis 445 



nurse riippellii 444 



Brachystola... 398 



magna 398 



virescens 398 



Brada pilosa 231, 233 



viUosa 232 



Bradvnotes 401 



6besa - 360,401 



Brama.. 121 



brama 331 



Brotulida; 108 



Brycinus 442 



Brycon capito „ 446 



falcatus 447 



melanopterum 447 



Bryttus humilis 517 



mineopas 515 



oculatus 518 



signifer 515 



Bufo quericus... 109 



Bufonids 109 



Buliminus labiosus 541 



Bulimulidffi 130 



Bulimulas .....124, 130, 131, 134, 142 



albidus 140,142 



alternatus _ 131, 132, 140 



a. maris 125, 131-133, 137-140 



binnevanus 140, 141 



dealbatus, 131, 132, 134, 136-139, 



534 



d. UquabiUs 124, 131, 133-136 



d. mooreanus 124, 131-135 



d. ozarkensis 131, 136 



d. pasonis 131, 139 



d. pecoBensis, 125, 131-133, 138, 



139 



d. ragsdalei, 124, 131, 133, 136- 



139, 142 



d. schiedeanus 1S8 



intermedins 140, 141 



patriarcha 131 



schiedeanus 131, 133, ISU, 138 



Bulimus confinis /34, 134, 135 



liquabilis iS^ 



schiedeanus JSS, 136 



s. var. mooreanus 13S 



Calamus penna 99 



Calephorus 19, 20, 20 



compressicornis 20 



elegans 20 



CalUbia 27G,276 



diana 276 



Calliurus melanops 515 



Campogramma. 116 



glaucus 116 



Camnula 375 



pellucida 375 



CarangidiB 96,487 



Caranx ruber 487 



Carcharinus lamia 80 



Carychium exiguum. 161 



Centrarchidfe 513 



Centrarchinffi 513 



Centrarchus. 513 



interruptus 514 



Centropomus 520 



lucioperca _ 520 



rupestris 510 



Cepheus 4&0 



lamellatus 497 



Ceroys .277, «77 



Utuus 277 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



605 



Ceroys perfoliatus 277 



Cestfacion 80 



zygaena — 80 



Cestraciontidae 80 



Ch^naxis 145 



Chtenobrythus gulosus - 515 



Choetodon capistratus 102 



glaucus 116 



ChiEtodontidEe 102 



Chaetosyllis 352 



Chalceus angiilatus 449 



erythrurus - - 441 



Chalcinus albus 447 



angulatus. - 448,450 



brachypomus 448-i50 



culter ^50, 450 



rotundatus 450 



Oharacida; 296 



Charaoidium 324, 325 



etheostoma 323, 324 



purpiiratum 324 



steindachneri 324,325 



tenuis 325 



Characinse 452 



Charax 453, 454 



gibbosus 453 



tectifer 453 



Charopa 154 



Cheirodon monodon 332 



pulcher 332,483 



Chelonia mydas 112 



Cheloniid;B 1 1 1 



Chilomyzon 309,311 



Chirodon monodon 332 



Chlcraltis 19, 20, 30, 367 



abdominalis 367, 369 



oonspersa 368 



linearis 30 



viridis - 29 



Chloroseombrinae 114 



Chloroseombrus chrysurus 114, 116 



hesperius 114 



Chondrodera borneensis 282 



maxima 281 



notatipes 282 



subvitrea 282 



Chone duneri - 257 



gracilis 257 



teres 257 



Chorimycterus 325 



Chorisoneura 271 



gracilis 271 



Chorthippus 33,369 



Chortophaga 374 



\'iridifasciata 374 



Chriodorus atherinoidea 91 



Cichlida' 486 



Circinaria eoncava 533, 557 



Circinariidae 557 



Circotettix 393 



carolinianus 393,394 



40 



Circotettix rabula 360, 393 



shastanus 394 



suffusus.. 397 



undulatus 393,394 



verruculatus 396, 397 



Cirratulus grandis 506 



parvus 505 



Cirrhatulus fragilis 506 



Cirrhinereis fragilis 506 



Citharininiie 319 



Citharinus geoffroii 319 



CUnina; 105 



Clinocephalus 19 



Clupanodon - 84 



jussieui - 84 



ogbna 84 



pilchardus 84 



thrissa 84 



Clupeida- 83 



Clymene harai 239 



Clymenella tentaculata 239 



Cnemidophorus sexlineatus 110 



Cochlicopa lubrica — 149, 533 



Cochlicopidff 148 



Cochliopa 172 



guatemalensis 172 



infundibulum , 172 



riograndensis 125, 171, 172 



rowelli 172 



trochulus 172 



tryoniana 172 



Cocytotettix., 19, 20, 30 



intermedius 30 



pulchripennis _ 30 



Coecilianella... 148 



CoUocalia 177-212 



agnota 179, 182, 183 



brewostris 180, 189 



cebuensis 203 



cinerea 195, 195 



cyanoptila 208 



dodgei 181, 209, 209, 210 



esculenta 181, 210, 211 



francica, 183, 188, 193, 198, 199, 

 201,202 



f. francica 180, 196-200,202 



f . germani 181, 195, 201 



f . ine.xpectata 181, 199-202 



f. infuscata 199 



f . merguiensis 201, 202 



f. spodiopvgia 181, 196-201 



f. terra;regina; 180, 198-200,202 



f. to^sendi 181,19", 199-201 



fuciphaga, 178, 186-188, 190, 192- 



194 

 f. elaplu-a, 180, 185, 188-190, 194, 



195 



f. fuciphaga, 180, 185-189, 191, 



194 195 



f. vestita ...180, 187^ 188 



germani 201,202 




606 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



CoDocalia hj'poleuca ZIO 



jnexpectata 200 



infuscata JS5, 199 



innominata, 178, 179, 182, 183, 



183, 190, 197 



leucophsea, 178, 180, 184-186, 195- 



197 

 leucopygia, 178, 182, 183, 183, 203 

 linchi, 204, 204, 206, 207, 209, 210 



1. affinis....; 182, 206, 207, 209 



1. cvanoptila 1S2, 205, 206, 209 



1. eiachMJtera 182, 207, 208 



1. isonota 182, 207, 208-210 



1. linchi 182, 204, 205, 208 



lowi..... 179, 190, 192 



marginata 181, 203, 203 



maxima 183 



merguiensis 201 



natalis 181, 211, 2n 



neglecta 181, 211, 211, 2\2 



nidifica 1^^ 



ocista 179, 184, 185, 195, 196 



origenis 180, 191, 192 



spilura 210 



thespesia 180, 195, 197 



troglodytes 181, 202, 202, 203 



unicolor 190,193 



u. amelis, 180, 186, 193, 193, 194, 



197 



u. unicolor 180, 192, 193, 195 



uropygialis 181, 203, 203 



viridinitens 210 



whiteheadi.. 180,191-193 



Colossoma 472 



mgnpinnis.. 



473 



oculus 472 



Colubridie 109 



Comacris 19 



Compsacris - 33 



pulcher 33 



Congrammus 105 



moorei 105 



Congrus 105 , 



Conozoa - 381-383 



acuminata..- 383 



bekrensi 381, 382 



sulcifrons - 381 



wallula - 381,383 



Copeina 294 



argjTops - 295 



Cordillacris 365 



cinerea — 366 



crenulata 366 



occipitalis 365 



Coryphaena equiselis 122 



equisetis 122 



Coryphsenidffi 122 



Coscinoxyron 450 



culter 450 



Cottogaster aurantiacus 521 



shumardi 521 



Cotyle vanicorensis 186 



CrocodilidEe Ill 



Crotalidje 110 



Crotalus adamanteus 110 



Crystallaria asprella 524 



Crvptotomus bervUinus 101 



Curimata ." 298,301 



copei _ — 301 



c\'prinoides 300 



dorsale 298 



gilbert 300 



spilura 483 



schomburgkii 301,303 



spiltira - 297 



spiluropsis 298 



Curaraatella alburnus 297 



meyeri — 296 



Curamatinae 296 



Curimatus altamazonicus 305 



c\T)rinoides 300, 305, 306 



gilbertii 300 



rutiloides 305,306 



spilurus 297, 297, 298 



trachystethus ..298,299 



CycMa anea 513 



Cyclas - 174 



maculata 173 



Cynais cards 79 



Cynocharax 457 



Cynodon gibbus 467 



Cvnopotamus gulo 459 



Cvnthia 508 



Cj^hocharax 297,298 



CA-prinodon carpio 89 



mydrus.. 88, 101 



riverendi 485 



variegatus riverendi 88 



Cyprinus brama 121 



Cypselus concolor .■. 192 



inquietus 186 



labuanensis 190 



lowi 190 



terrse-reginse 198 



CjTenidse — 173 



CjTtocharax 454 



limcesquamus 454 



Dactylotum 415 



pictum 415 



Dasyatis....- 80 



Dasybatidse 80 



Dasybatis 80 



Dasybatus 80, 80 



hastatus 80 



Daudebardiella 173 



Delphinus 78 



Dermochelydidse Ill 



Dermochelys eoriacea Ill 



Derotmema 379 



cupidineum — 379 



haydeni 379,»380 



Desmognathus fusca — 356, 357 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



607 



Desmognathus ochrophaea 357 



Diapoma speculiferum 334 



Dichroatettix 31, 31, 32 



\iridifrons 30,3;? 



Dichromorpha 19, 29, 29, 367 



longipermis 29, S9 



mexicana 29, 29 



■\-iridis. ^5, 367 



Diestrammena longipes 287, 290, 291 



palpata 290 



unicolor 287,290 



Diodon holocanthus 103 



hvstrix 103 



Diodontida? — 103 



Diplesion blennioides _ 522 



Dissosteira 377 



Carolina 377 



longipermis 378 



spurcata 378,379 



Distichodontina' _ 467 



Distichodus rudolplii 467 



Dormitator maculatus 487 



Dorosomatidae 84 



Drilonereis 502 



Duleida 510 



Dules „ 510,512 



male 512 



marginatus _ 512 



m. boninensis 610 



mato 512 



Eigenmannina _ 308 



melanopogon 308 



orinocensis 309 



Elassoma 513 



zonatum 513 



Elopida; 81 



Elops saurus 81 



Emydida> 112 



Emys concentrica 113 



Encoptolophus 374 



coloradensis _ 374 



sordidus 374 



Endodontida' 153,154 



Englandina singleyana 143 



Engraulididre 84 



Enneacanthus gloriosus 515 



obesus 515 



Epacromia 40 



Ephippus argus 469 



Epilampra 269 



abortivipenna 269 



abortivipennis _ 269 



f usca. 271 , 271 



lucifuga _ 270,270 



maculicoUis 270 



Epinephelus drummond-hayi 97 



maculosus _ 97 



morio 97 



striatus 96 



Eremopedes 417 



baUi 417 



Eretmoehelys imbricata 112 



Eritettix 30 



A-ariabilis 365 



Erythrinidse 293 



Erj^lirinus 294 



bre\ieauda 294 



erythrinus 294 



saimoneus 294 



unitffiniatus 293,294 



Esocidae _ 487 



Esox osseus 81 



Etheostoma cceruleura 525 



c. lepidum 525 



c. spectabile 525 



flabellare 525 



jessiffi 524 



macrocephalura S21 



niaculatum 524 



peltatum.. 521 



rufilineatum 524 



zonale 524 



Eucentrarehinae 513 



Eucentrarchus 513 



macropterus 513 



Eucinostomus gula , 100 



meeki 488 



pseudogula 487 



Euconulus - 530 



diersinus dentatus 533, 563 



c. trochulus 124, 153, 534 



fuh-us 153 



EucjTiopotamus 460 



Euglandina singleyana 125 



Eulalia quadrioeulata 220. 222 



longicornuta 221, 222 



Eunieces fasciatus _ 110 



Eupera 174 



maculata 174 



singleji 173 



^^^catanense 174 



Euplectrotettix 39, 40, 40 



conspersus 40 



fcrrugineus 40,40 



prasinus 40 



schulzi 40 



Eupnigodes 39, 40 



Eupomacentrus leucostictus 488 



Eupomotis gibbosus 516, 520 



holbroockii 520 



Eutryxalis 10, 11, 15 



gracilis 15 



minor 13, 15 



strigata 15 



Exocoetidae 91 



Fenestra 19, 30-32 



argentina 30 



bohkii 30-32 



intermedia. 30,30 



pulchripennis 30, SO 



Ferrissia 565 



Fiatola 118 




608 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Fiatola fasciata IIS 



Foa brachygramma 526 



Fulgur carica 52 



maximum 52 



Fundulus cubensis 485 



similis. 88 



Galeichthvs felis 88 



Galeid«... -- 79 



Galeocerdo tigrinus - 79 



Galeorhinus - 79 



Galeus 79 



Galumna 490 



armipes 492 



imperfecta. 492 



minuscula 492 



ma?sta 492 



nitidula 491 



persimilis 491 



slossons 490, 492 



texana 494 



turgida 493 



unimaculata 490 



virginica... 493 



Gambusia punctata 485 



puucticulata 486 



Garmanina 326 



Ga-steropelecus 452 



stellatus. 452 



sternicla 452 



Gastrodonta 530 



acerra 559,560 



brittsi 560 



cerinoidea 559 



demissa 559, 560 



d. brittsi 533, 558-560 



d. var. lamellata 55S 



gularis 558-560 



interte.xta 557, 559 



lamellata 560 



ligera 533, 557, 559 



Gerridie 100,487 



Ginglymostoma cirratum 79 



Ginghinostomida 79 



Glandina singleyana US 



Glaucus 116 



aniia 116 



Glessula 149 



Glycymeris insignis 213 



Glyphisodon mauritii 101 



Glvphvalinia — 562 



Gdbiida- 104, 487, 488 



Gobius soporator 488 



Gomphoceraa (Hyalopteryx) pag- 



anus IS 



Gomphoceri .. 31 



Gomphoeerus 30, 370 



clavatus 362,370 



(Epacromia) peragrans 41 



Goniobasis 168,169 



comalensis 125, 167, i67-169 



fontinaUs 169 



Goniobasis marmocki 169 



virginica 169 



Grvllid* 418 



Gryllus 418 



dubius 20 



pennsylvanicus 418 



G},TnnocephaIu3 schraetseri 526 



Gymnothorax funebris 88 



Hadropterus aspro 521 



macrocephalus 521 



peltatus 521 



phoxocephalus 521 



Hadrotettix 397 



trifasciatus 397 



Ha;mulids 98, 487 



Hajmulon plumieri 98 



sciurus 98 



Harengula humeralis 83 



sardina 83 



Harpax pictipennis 276 



Helicida; 125 



Helicina orbiculata tropica 125, 534 



Helicinidaj 125 



Helicodiscus 154, 155, 530 



eigenmanni 124, 151, 156, 157 



e. arizonensis 156, 157, 158 



fimbriatus 155-/57, 15S, 564 



f. var. salmonaceus 157 



f. var. salmonensis 157 



lineatus 155, 156, 156 



parallelus 155-157, 533, 564 



salmonacea 157 



salmonensis 155, 157 



Helix auriformis 1Z6 



cronkhitei 154 



dealbata 136 



diodontina 148 



hermanni 155 



(Polygyra) jacksoni var. del- 



toidea 5S9 



labrosa. 541 



lab>Tintluca 148 



lineata.. 156, 156 



mauriniana 149 



monodon 51)2 



m. var. aliciae 51iZ 



(Mesodon) kiowaensis B^7 



photus 169 



saW n6,vn 



striatella i 53, 153 



(PolygjTa) tamaulipasensis 129 



tholus 169 



Hemigrammus interruptus 335 



luetkenii SS5 



robustulus 335,483 



schmardte 335 



Hemiodopsis — 318 



Hemiodus 318 



niicrolepis 318 



Hemioplites simulans 515 



Hemiprocne fucivora 204 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



609 



Hemiprocne salangana 186 



Hemiramphidse 91 



Hemiramphus brasiliensis. 91 



Heros 486 



tetracanthus 486 



t. cinctus 486 



Herse forsteri 199, 200 



Hesperotettix 400 



festivus 400 



gillettei 400 



speciosus - 401 



viridis 400 



Heterodon platjThinus 420 



Hippiscus .. 376 



altivolus 376,401 



conspicuus 376 



maculatus 360, 376 



neglectus 377 



rugosus 376 



Hippocampus punctulatus 95 



zosterae 95 



Hinmdo brevirostris 189, 190 



cinerea 195 



esculenta 179, 187, 190, 210, 210 



franciae 197 



francica 197 



francisca 197 



fuoiphaga 185, 186 



peru\iana 196, 197, 199, 200 



unicolor _ 192 



vanikorensis 185 



Holocompsa 272 



cvanea 272 



nitidula 272 



goldfussi 125 127, 151, 157 



roemeri 125 



Holotaxis liPtus 294 



Hoplias malabarious 293 



Horatia 173 



Horesidotes 32 



Hyalinia lae\"iuscula 150 



Hyaloptervges -.10, 11 



Hyalopteryx 10, 11, 15, 16 



asinus 11,12 



exaggerata 11, 12 



gracilis 15, 15, 16 



nifipennis 10, 11, 12 



Hydrolycus pectoralis 466 



scoinberoides.- 466 



Hyla carolinensis 109 



squirella 109 



Hylidae 109 



H3-ostoma bleimioperca 522 



Hjrpacantha 116 



Hypacanthus 116 



Hj-pacantus 116 



H\T3odis 116 



Hypodys... 116 



Hypohomus aurantiacus 521 



Iguanidre Ill 



Immersidens 145 



Infundibularia 145 



infundibuliformis 145 



Ischnoptera 266 



azteca 266 



blattoidas 268 



nyctiboroides 266 



nana 266 



par\'ula 266 



tolteca 266 



Isonyx 31,36 



paraguayensis.- 36 



Istiophoridfe 96 



Istiopliorus nigricans 96 



Ixoreus... 380 



Jenkinsia stolifera 81 



Kuhlia 510 



malo 512 



Kuhliidce 510 



Labrisomus nuchipinnus 488 



Labru.s irideus 513 



macropterus 513 



Lactoplirys trigonus 103 



Ljemolyta taeniata 322 



Lagodon rhomboides 100 



Lampropeltis doliatus 110 



Lepodidse 121 



Lepodus 121 



raii 121 



saragus 121 



Lepomis - 515 



anagallinus 518 



apiatus 516 



ardesiacus 519 



auritus - 516 



charvbdis - 515 



giim: 515 



haplognathus 516 



humilus 517 



longispinis 517, 518 



macrochirus 518 



megalotis 516, 517 



mystacalis .516, 519 



nephelis 518 



nitidus 517 



notatus 519 



occidentalis 516, 517 



ophthahnicus - 516 



palladus 516,519 



peltastes.. 516 



punctatus 516 



purpurescens 619 



Leporellus vittatus 327 



Leporinus 331 



fasciatus 328 



frederici 328 



friderici .. 328 



holostictus 330 



hypselonotus 331 



iiiegalepis 3^9,330 



multifasciatus 329 



pictus 327 




610 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Leporinus vittatus 3S7 



Leprus 377 



cyaneus 377 



interior 377 



Liacarus abdominalis 495 



oarolinensis 494 



frontalis 495 



Lichia 116 



Ligurotettix 39,40 



Liguus - - 77 



Limnaea techella. 16S 



Litaneutria 362 



borealis 362 



minor 362 



Lithobius harrietse 3 



Locustinse 399 



Lucifuga 484 



Lumbriclvmene 503 



pacifica.. .._ - 2^6 



Lutianida? 97, 487 



Lutianus apodus 97 



aya „ 98 



griseus 97 



synagris 98 



Lymnspa - 530 



bulimoides 162-164 



b. cockereUi... ...162, 164 



b. sonomaensis 162 



b. techella ....- 163 



columella 161, 564 



cubensis 164 



desidiosa 161, 564 



humilis .. 161 



teeheUa 162,164 



Lymnteidfe 161,564 



Lyosphsera gibbosa 103 



Macrodon tareira 293 



trahira S93 



Macropteryx leucophseus...l95, 195, 199 



Malaclemmys centrata 113 



litt oralis.- 113 



1. rliizophorarum 112 



Maldane biceps 233 



similis.... 233 



Maldanella - 239 



robusta..... .230,239 



Mantids 273, 362 



Mantis diana 276, 376 



perspicua 273 



rubicunda 276 



(Photina) vitrea 276 



Mapo soporator 104 



Mastaccembelidae 90 



Mecostethus 40 



Megalobrycon cephalus 447 



melanopterum 447 



Melania pleuristriata 167, 168, 169 



rubida 168 



rufa 167 



Melanophis 404 



alpimis - 360,414 



Melanoplus altitudinum 362, 409 



angustipennis 412 



atlanis .._ 407,408 



bilituratus 408 



bivittatus 415 



bowditclii 405 



bruneri 360,406 



canonicus 411 



eoccineipes 412 



conspersus 413, 



cuneatus 405 



dawsoni 408 



delectus 408 



differentialis 415 



fasciatus 360, 362, 409 



femur-rubrum 410 



flabellifer 405 



flavidus 406 



infantilis 414 



intermedius 406,407 



lakinus 404 



minor 414 



montanus 409 



monticola 362, 4 1 1 



occidentalis 404-406 



packardii 412 



plumbeus 410,411 



sanguineus 406 



spretis 408 



Mermiriffi 17 



Mesodon 530 



exoletus 653 



kiowaensis var. arkansaensis.- 5^7 



Mesops cylindricus 399 



wyomingensis- 399 



Mestobregma 380 



kiowa 380 



plattei 3S0 



thomasi 381 



Metaleptea 16 



minor 15, 16, 17 



Metator 381 



pardalinus 381 



Metynnis luna 479 



Microceramus texanus 125 



Microperca punctulata 526 



Micropteridee 513 



Micropterus 513 



dolomieu 520 



salmoides 520 



Miopterj-x 276 



grenadensis 276 



MoUienisia latipiima 90 



Monacanthidoe 102 



Mugil curema 91, 92 



trichodon. .....91,487 



Mugilid* 91, 487 



Mullida? 487 



Mura'nidffi 88 



Mvletes albiscopus ^75 



bidens 475, 475 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



611 



Myletes herniarius 476, U7S 



lippincottianus 478,479 



nigripinms 473, Jt73 



oculus 47^ 



Mylossoma albiscopus 475 



Napaia _. 32 



Narcacion 80 



NarcaciontidEe 80 



Narcobatus 80 



Natrix 113 



fasciata 109 



Nemobius 418 



faseiatus 418 



Neoliodes concentricus 499 



floridensis 499 



Neomaenis apodus 487 



synagris 487 



Nerophis ophidion 93 



Nesopupa 216 



Nicomache 503 



carinata 242,245 



lumbricalis...- 243,245 



personata 245 



Ninoe nigripes 502 



Nomeidae 119 



Nothrus 490 



taurinus 499 



Notaspis _ 490 



carbonaria. 496 



castanea 496 



Notomastus giganteus 227 



NotophvUum imbricatum 217 



Nyctibora 266,269 



crassicornis — 269 



holosericea... 269 



latipennis 269 



sericea 269 



tenebrosa ..- 269 



tomentosa 269 



OcjTirus chrysuras 98 



(Ecanthus quadripunetatus 418 



(Edipoda humilis.. 50 



plattei 380 



signatipennis 4^ 



CEdipodins 373 



CEonomus _ 20 



Ogcocephalidsfe 108 



Ogcocephalus radiatus 108 



Ogilbia cavorum 108 



01c>T5hide.s 278 



fasciatus 278 



Oleacinidse 143 



Omphalina 124, 149, 530 



friabilis 533, 563 



fuliginosa 533, 562, 563 



f. ozarkensis 533, 562 



Opeia 365 



obscura 36.5 



Ophibolus doliatus triangulus 420 



getulus 420 



Ophiocephalops 293 



Opisthonema 84 



Oppia bipilis 497 



canadensis 497 



montana —- 497 



spinipes 496,497 



Opsanua tau 108 



Orchelimuna 415 



inerme 416 



longipenne 416 



%iilgare 415, 417 



Oribata longiseta 498 



puritanica 498 



Oribatidae 490 



Oribatula 490 



pallida 494 



Orphula 11, 16, 16, 17 



intrieata _ 16 



jucunda 17 



minor 17 



olivacea 27 



pagana 16, 17 



patruelis 27 



plebeia — 16 



punctata 16 



Orphulella 19, 21, 25, 25, 366 



aculeata 26,26 



elegans 26, 27, 27 



gracilis 25, 26, 26_, 27 



intrieata 25,28 



maculipennis 27 



meridionalis 28 



mexicana 28 



neglecta - 26, 26 



pelidna 366 



pratorum 366, 367 



punctata 25, 26, 27, 28 



salina - 367 



tepaneca 28,29 



viridescens 26,29 



zapoteca 28,29 



Orphulellae 19 



OrphuUna 19, 20, 21, 21, 26 



acuta 21, 2S 



baUoui 21,2/ 



pulcheUa 21, 21, 23, 24 



veteratoria 21, 23 



Ostorhinchus - 527 



Ostraciontidse 103 



Oxycor>T)hus 19,20 



mexicanus 28 



zapoteca 29 



Oxvlabracidse - 520 



Oxylabrax 520 



Oxyops 276,276 



rubicunda 276 



Pachycheilus 168 



Paloraeta 119 



Paludestrina diaboli 125, 170 



seemanni 125, 170 



Pampanoa 116 



Panchlora 271 




612 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Panclilora peruana 271, 271 



\\t\A\s. 271 



Pararausonia 276 



conspersa 276 



Parastagmatoptera 276 



tessellata 276,^76 



Paratropes 269 



elegans 269 



subsericeus 269,269 



Para\'itrea 530 



Parorphula 19, 20, 20 



graminea 20,20 



Paropomala 399 



wyomingensis 399 



Partulidfe 148 



Pellegrinina 442 



heterolepis 442 



Pelops - - - 490 



Peltapleura 300 



Pempherids 122 



Pempheris 122 



muUeri 122 



Peprilus 119 



longipennis 119 



Perca ciliata 510 



flavescens 521 



fluviatilis 521 



minima 522 



(Percina) nebulosa 621 



zingel -. 526 



Percida 520 



Percina caprodes 521 



c. zebra 521 



Periplaneta 271 



australasise 271 



Petrometopon eruentatus 96 



Phasma fasciatum 278 



Phasmidae _ 277,279 



Philomycidse 563 



Philomycus carolinensis 533, 563 



Phlibostroma _. 366 



quadrimaculatum 366 



Photina... 276,276 



\'itrea 276 



Phryganistria grandis 279 



sarmentosa 279 



Phyllodromia minor 267 



Phyllomimi 281 



Physa albofilata 565 



integra 565 



rhomboidea 565 



Physidse 565 



Pileoma cyniatogramma 522 



Pionosyllis magnifica 223 



Pisidium abditum huachucanum... 173 



compressum 173 



singleyi -— 173 



trapezoideum 173 



Pithecocharacinie 319 



Kthecocharax 319 



anostomus 322 



Pithecocharax trimaculatus 320, 322 



ucayalensis 320 



Planaria maculata 7, S 



morgani 7, 8 



simplicissima 7, 8 



PlanogjTa 154 



Planorbis 173 



bicarinatus 164 



carus .....124, 164 



cultratus 165 



filoeinctus 16& 



liebmanni 165,166 



parallelus 156, 156 



parvus 165 



trivolvis 164,564 



Planorbula ....166, 167 



obstructa 166 



Platophrys lunatus 488 



oeellatus 104 



Platybothrus 369 



brunneus 369 



Plectrophorus 41,^7 



Plectrotettix 41,^7 



calidus... 48 



conspersa ^7 



excelsus 48 



gregarius 45 



pictus 4^ 



pratensis 45 



varipes 47 



Plethodectes erythrurus 441 



Plethodon erythronotus 357 



Pleuroceratidse 167,529 



Pleuroneetidae 104,488 



Podisma 401 



ascensor 402 



dodgei 401 



oreas 402 



oregonensis 404 



Poecilia vittata 486 



Poecilichthj'S mesjeus 523 



rufilineatus 524 



sanguifluus 524 



zonalis 524 



Poeciliidffi 88,485 



Pcecilosoma transversum 525 



Poecilosomatops 323 



Poecilurichthys abramis 440 



Polj'gjrra 124 



aibolabris 553 



a. alleni 533, 552 



appressa 533 



a. perigrapta 533 



auriculata 128 



auriformis 124, 126, 127 



binneyana 533,547-550 



b. chastatensis 533, 549 



blandiana 533, 540 



clausa 533,556 



cragini 533, 545 



divesta 533, 551, 552 




1906.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



613 



PoIvg:>Ta d. indianorum 550 



dorfeuilliana, 130, 532, 534-538, 



541 



d. percostata 532, 538 



d. perstriata 532, 538 



d. sampsoni 130, 532, 535-538 



edentata... 533, 544, 545, 545 



e. magazinensis 533, 544, 545 



(Stenotrema) edgariana 541 



elevata 533, 553-556 



exoleta ozarkensis..... 533, 554 



fraterna 533, 534. 540, 542 



f . aliciffi 534, 540, 542 



f . friersoni 534, 540, 542 



f. imperforata 532, 542 



fraudulenta 546 



Wppocrepis.... 124, 127 



hirsuta 540 



hopetonensis 546 



indiauorum..547, 548, 550, 550, 551 



i. indianorum 533 



i. lioderma 533, 551 



inflecta 533,543-545 



i. media. 533, .544 



jacksoni 128, 532, 538-540 



j. deltoidea 532, 539 



j. simpsoni 532,539, 540 



kiowaensis 533,547 



(Mesodon) kiowaensis 5^7 



(Mesodon) k. var. arkansa- 



ensis _. 5^7 



labrosa 532, 540, 5^0 



leporina 534 



monodon. 5^2,6^3 



m. abciae S^S 



m. fraterna... 124 



mooreana 124, 127, 129, 130 



m. tholus 130 



neglecta.. 533,546 



obstricta 543 



o. carolinen-sis 543 



o. occidentalis 533.543 



pilsbr^i 532 



roemen 124, 130, 551 



sayana 127 



smithi 544 



stenotrema 533, 540 



texa,sensis 129 



texasiana 124, 128-130, 137, 534 



t. In-perolia 124, 128, 129, 534 



t. texasensis 124, 129 



thyroides 124, 533, 556 



triodontoides 534 



uncifera 533,540 



uvniifera 128 



vultuosa _ 542 



zaleta 553,554 



z. ozarkensis 553-556 



Polynoidse 219 



Pol>T)ylis 166 



Pomacanthus arcuatus 102 



Pomacentridae 101,488 



Pomacentrus leucostictus 101 



Pomatiopsida> 565 



Pomatiopsis lapidaria 565 



Pomotis elongatus 519 



fallax 519 



guttatus - 575,515 



holbroockii 520 



solis 516 



speciosus.... 519 



Pomoxis annularis 513 



sparoides 513 



Poronotus 119 



Porthmeus . 116 



PotamopjTgus spinosus 125 



Potamorhina pristigaster 306 



Praticolella berlandBeriana... 124, 125 



Praxilla gracilis 242 



Praxillella elongata 503 



tricirrata 503 



zonalis.. 503 



Priacanthopsis 122 



Priacanthus 122 



Prionognathus ciliatus 227 



Pristiapogon _ 527 



Pristids 80 



Pristis peetinatus 80 



Prochilodus 309, 311, 314 



amazonensis 316, 483 



cephalotes 312 



corimbata 311 



humeralis 311 



insignis. 313, 315, 318 



nigricans 311 



oligolepis 311 



ortonianus 311 



steindachneri 309 



theraponura 313, 316, 483 



\'imboides 311 



Promicrops guttatus 97 



Psallisostomidse 81 



Psallisostoraus 81 



osseus 81 



Psectrogaster amazonica -. 306 



ciliatus 305 



Psenes chapmani 119 



edwardsii 121 



guttatus 121 



Pseudocorynopoma doriae 451 



Pseudomops 263 



crinicomis ....263, 264 



luctuosa 264 



Pseudophyllodromia 264 



f asciatella 264 



lineolata 264 



obscura _ 264,264 



pavonacea. 264, 264 



peruana. 264 



prona 264 



Pseudoscaris guacamaia 102 



Pseudostauronotus 41, 41, 42, 50 




614 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Pseudostauronotus brunneri 41, 42 



occidentalis 50 



Psinidia maculosa 381 



(Trachyrhachis) pardalina 380 



Psoloessa 39, 48,45, 371 



buddiana 49,^9 



ferruginea 48 



maculipemiis 48, 49, 49, 371 



texana 48 



Pterorhombus 118 



Punctum 530 



calif ornicum _ 158 



conspectum 158 



pasadenffi 158 



pygmseum 158 



Pupa pentodon 144 



Pupilla 530 



blandi 143 



liebes 143 



muscorum 143 



svngenes 143 



Pupiliida; 143, 147, 148, 532, 557 



Pupoides marginatus, 143, 146, 533, 



557 



Pycnoscelus surinamensis 271 



Pygocentrus nattereri 468 



piraya 468 



Pyrainidula 530 



alternata 533, 563 



cronkhitei anthonyi 153 



perspectiva — 533,564 



solitaria 533 



Pvrrhulina 294 



argyrops ...294,295 



L-eta 294,295 



Radinotatum 10, 11 



Radiodiscus 154 



liermanni _ 155 



millecostatus 154, 155 



Raja pastinaca 80 



torpedo 80 



Rana palustris 420 



Raphiodon gibbus 4^7 



Reganina 475 



bidens 475 



Rhaphiodon vulpinus 467 



Rhina 80 



squatina 80 



Rhinidje 80 



Rhytiodus 326 



argenteo-fuscus 326, 327 



microlepis 326 



Roeboides 455 



affinis 457 



bicornis .- 458 



myersii 455 



rubrivertex 457,458 



Sabellaria 248 



cementarium 248 



Salamandra haldemani 357 



Salangana 178,^79 



Salangana vestita 187 



Salmo anostomus 319, 320 



corirabata 311 



cyprinoides 300, 301 



edentulus _.. 301 



gibbosus 453 



Samytha bioculata 253 



Sardinia 84 



Scarida^ 101,488 



Schistocerca 42, 399 



lineata 399 



Schizodon fasciatus 322 



Sagittarius SS6 



trimaculatus- SW 



Schoenobates ; 284 



SciEEnidoe 488 



Scincids 110 



Scoliodon terrte-novse 80 



Scomber amia — 116 



cliloris 116 



chrysurus 1 16 



Scomberomorus cavalla 96 



Scombridae... 96 



Scombrops boops 528 



Scorpsena grandicornis 104 



Scorpaenidae 104 



Scudderia 415 



furcata 415 



Scyllina 39-41 



borellii 48 



braailiensis 45,46 



brunneri 45, 47 



calida 48 



conspersa 41, 47, 48 



excelsa 48 



gregaria 45 



instabilis 42 



peragrans 40 



picta 45 



pratensis 45, 46 



schistoeercoides 48 



smitlii 48 



suffusa 47 



uniformis 42 



varipes 41, 47. 48 



viatoria 40, 48 



ScylUna; 39 



Sealeina 478 



lippincottianus 479 



Segmentina 166 



armigera 166, 167 



largillierti 166 



nitida 166 



obstructa 166 



wheatleja 166, 167 



Semitapicis laticeps 305 



Serranidce 96 



Serrasalminse 468 



Serrasalmo sesopus 4^9 



humeralis 4^9 



immaculatus 4''^ 




1906.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



615 



Serrasalmo iridopsis 47^ 



maculatus 4^9 



nattereri 4^5 



piraya 4^8 



Serrasaliiius aesopus 469 



humeralis 469 



immaculatus 471 



iridopsis _ 471 



maculatus 469 



Seserinus 119,7/9 



alepidotus 119 



xanthurus 1 19 



Siluridae 88 



Sinipta 19 



Siphostom^ 93 



.Sisantum 19, 20, W, 21 



notochloris 20,20 



Spelerpes bilineatus _ 357 



Sparidae 99 



Sparisoma flavescens 102 



hoplomystax .,_ 4SS 



Sparus rau 121 



Sphaerium (Limosina) singlej'i..i73, 174 



jTicatanense 173 i 



Spharagemon 378 



aequale 378 



boUi 379 



collare 379 



c. angustipenne 379 



venustuin 378 



Spheroides 104 



nephelus 103 



plumieri 103 



Sphyradium ..21.5,530 



alexanderi 215.216 



sharpi 215, 216 



SphjTsena barracuda 92 



SphjTaenidie 92 



Sphyrcenocharax 460 



Sphyrna 80 



Squalus gaieus 79 



squatina 80 



tiburo 80 



zygsena _ 80 



Squatina 80 



Starksina 476 



herniarius 476 



Stauroderus 369 



curtipennis 369, 371 



Stauronereis annulatus 225 



Staurorhectua 31, 33, S3, 36 



glaucipes 34 



longicornis, 33, 33, 34 



Steindachnerina 298 



Steiroxys 417 



paUidipalpus 417 



trilineata 417 



Stenobothrus 33, 369 



bicolor 365,365 



coloradus 365 



gregarius 4it 45 



Stenobothrus tepanecus ^8 



■iiatorius 41 



StenogjTidae 148 



Stenotrema 530, 532, 540 



leai 542 



monodon S4^ 



Stephanolepis hispidus 102 



Stereotettix - 31 



Stethaprion chryseum. 482 



erythrops -- 480 



Stirapleura 39, 42, 49, 49 



bruneri 49 



brunnea 50 



chilensis 49 



decussata 49 



humilis 49,50 



obscura 50 



pallida 50 



signatipennis 49, 49, 50 



variabilis 49 



Stizostedion canadense 520 



c. boreum 521 



Wtreum 520 



Striatura -- 153 



Strobilops 148 



hubbardi 148 



lab\Tinthica _ 148 



1. texasiana..... 124, 147, 534, .557 



strebeli 148 



virgo 148 



Stromateidip _ 1 16 



Stromateinae 1 16 



Stromateus -- 116 



brasiliensis 116 



fasciata .- 118 



fiatola 116 



maculatus 118 



Stygicola 484 



Succinea avara 161, 533, 564 



campestris 161 



concordialis 159 



floridana 158 



forshe\-i 1S9 



greerii 161 



grosvenori 161,533 



haleana / 55, 159 



halei _. lo9, 159 



Uneata ISl 



luteola 158 



lutescens 158 



mooresiana 161 



ovalis -. 5.33 



retusa 159,533 



texasiana 158 



wilsoni 159 



Succineidje 158 



Syngnathidae 93 



Syngnathus — 93 



acus 93 



elucens 93 



louisianae 93 




616 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Syngnathus mackaji 93 



ophidion 93 



pelagicus 93 



tj-phle 93 



Synodontidse 87 



Synodus foetens 87 



Syrbiila 17, 363 



admirabilis 17,363 



acuticornis 17 



eslavx 17, 18, 18 



montezuma 17 



valida _ 17 



(Hems) valida 18 



Tarpon atlanticus 81 



Teidse 110 



Testudo 420 



Tetragonopterinse 332 



Tetragonopterus agassizii 436 



argentatus 345 



bartlettii 343 



caudimaculatus 4^^.433 



chalceus 440,440 



diaphanus 332,339 



eigenmanniorum... 34S 



fasciatus S46 



finitimus 345 



hauxwellianus 340 



ipanquianus 337 



jacuhiensis 435 



laticeps 348 



lepidurus 336 



lineatus 348 



longior 341 



mexicanus 345 



inoorei 432 



ortonii 440 



ovalis - 440 



pectinatus 341 



phoenicopterus 338 



pliodus - ...3^7,348 



rutilus 435 



stilbe 431 



streetsii 345.346 



\nejita 435 



Tetrodontida . 103 



Tetronarce occidentalis SO 



Tettigonida? 281,415 



Thalassochelys caretta Ill 



Thespis conspersa... 276 



Thoracocharax 452 



Thrissa 84 



Thvsanophora 126,149 



" hornii 124. 126 



saxicola 149 



Tornatellina 216 



Toxoptenis 19, 20, 30 



miniatus 30,30 



Trachinotins 116 



Trachinotus. 116 



carolinus 116 



falcatus 96, 116, 487 



Trachinotus glaucus 116 



goreensis 116 



ovatus 116 



Travisia olens 231 



pupa 228 



Trichiuridae 96 



Trichiurus lepturus 96 



Trimerotropis- 382 



bifasciata 386 



bilobata 382 



califomica 388.389 



cincta. 386 



citrina 388 



cceruleipennis 392 



cyaneipennis 393 



ferruginea 386 



fratercula 390 



gracilis 385 



laticincta 387, 388 



latifasciata 388 



melanoptera 388 



niontana ...387,389 



monticola 387,388 



prxclara 387,389 



rebeUis 382 



salina. 390 



snowi 388 



strenua 388,389 



^^nculat!a. 391 



Triodopsis 530 



cragini _ 545 



edentate 545 



edentula 545 



Triportheus albus 447, 451 



flavus 448. 451 



neraaturus 448,449, 



Tristira 31 



Trophoma hirsuta 232 



Tropidonotus sipedon 419 



Truxalis 11, 15, 16 



bre\icorms 16 



intricata 28 



Tylosunis euryops 487 



notatus _ 90 



T^^ple typle _ 93 



Uhiema lefroji ; 487 



Ulocentra stigma?a 522 



Unionida 529 



Upeneus maculatus 487 



Wanoscopidae 105 



Vallonia 173,530 



cydophorella 148 



e.xcentrica 148 



gracilicosta 148 



parvula 533,557 



perspectiva 148 



Valloniida? ...148,557 



Valvata 172, 173 



micra 125, 172, 173 



m. nugax 173 



Valvatids.. .._ 172 




1906.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



617 



Vertigo 530 



binneyana 147 



milium 1-17 



oscariana 147 



ovata 147 



rugosula 534,557 



Vitrea 153 



Vitrea aulacog\Ta 533, 561 



bimieyana 152 



daUiana 151,152 



d. roemeri 124, 151,151, 152 



hammonis 151, 152, 533, 562 



indentata 150, 533, 562 



i. umbilicata 124, 150, 562 



milium. 152,153 



m. meridionalis... 152 



m. pugetensis 153 



multideiitata 533, 560 



petropliila 151, 533, 561 



p. pentadelphia 562 



sculptilis 150 



significans 533,560 



simpsoni 533, 560, 561 



wheatleji 151 



Vitrina 530 



alaskana „ 153, 15S 



pfeifferi 15S 



Vitricdzonites 530 



Voluta petrosa 59 



sayana 66 



Volutilithes _ 52-76 



abyssicola 75 



haleanus 69 



Umopsis 56, 58, 59, 69-72, 74, 75 



Volutilithes petrosus 52-76 



rugata 67 



rugatus 57, 58, 71, 74 



sayana 66, 71, 72, 74 



symmetrica 68 



Waiteina 473 



Xiphidion 416 



fasciatum 416 



saltans 416 



strictum 416 



Xiphorhamphus abbreviatus....460, 461 



braehycephalus 4S0 



falcirostris JfiS 



hepsetus JfiO 



heterolepis 462 



Xiphostoma liujeta 466 



maeulatum 463 



ta;do 463 



Xystroplites longimanus 520 



Zapata 39,40 



Zonites acerra 558 



brittsi 558 



demissa 558 



dallianus 152 



singleyanus 150 



Zonitida; 149, 530, 532, 557 



Zonitoides 153,530 



arborea 150, 152, 553, 560, 562 



minuscula 149, 560 



m. alachuana 149, 560 



m. neomexicana 149 



nummus 124, 150 



singleyana 150,534 



Zostera 96, 104 




618 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1906. 



Additions to Museum, 595. 



Annual Elections, 592. 



Banks, Nathan. New Oribatidae from 

 the United States (Plates XIV- 

 XIII), 489, 490. 



Beale, Lionel S., announcement of 

 death of, 261. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 5SS. 



Blatchley, W. S. On Some Reptilian 

 Freaks from Indiana, 419, 429. 



Botanical Section, report of, 590. 



Boyer, Charles S. Report of Biological 

 and Microscopical Section, .5SS. 



Brown, Arthur E. Theories of Evolu- 

 tion since Darwin, 2. 



Brown, Stewardson. Botanical Trip 

 to the Bermudas, 2. Botanizing in 

 the Canadian Rockies, 429. Report 

 of Botanical Section, .590. 



Buckton, George Bowdler, announce- 

 ment of death of, 2. 



Cfeamberlain, Ralph V. A New Litho- 

 bius from Colorado, 3. 



Qark, Clarence H., announcement of 

 death of, 261. 



Conklin, E. G., Ph.D. The Cause of 

 Sex, 176. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 

 5S1. 



Council for 1907, .593. 



Curators, report of, 586. 



Dixon, Samuel G., appointment as 

 Academy's representative to Frank- 

 lin celebration, 5. Report of the 

 Curators, .593. 



Doremus, Ogden, announcement of 

 death of, 176. 



Elections during 1906, 594. 



Ellis, J. B., announcement of death of, 

 2. 



Entomological Section, report of, 589. 



Fowler, Henry W. Some Cold-blooded 

 Vertebrates from the Florida Kevs 

 (Plates III, IV), 5, 77. Further 

 Knowledge of Some Heterognathous 

 Fishes, 5, 293. 431. New. Rare and 

 Little-known Scombroids, No. 3, 114. 



Notes on the Duskv Salamander 

 (Plate XIII), 356, 429." Descriptions 

 of Two New Species of Centropomus, 

 423, 429. Some New and Little- 

 known Percoid Fishes, 510. 



General Index, 61S. 



Holmes. Mary S. The Dos Pueblos 

 Caiion, Colorado. 51. 



Index to Genera, 602. 



Jefferis, William W., announcement of 

 death of, 51. 



Leffman, Henry, M.D. Newer Views 

 on the Nature of Matter, 261. 



Librarian, report of, 582. 



Mclndoo. N. E. On Some Fishes from 

 Western Cuba, 429, 484. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 report of, 589. 



Moore. J. Percy. Additional New 

 Species of Polvchseta from the North 

 Pacific (Plates X, XI, XII), 217. 

 Descriptions of Two New Polychaeta 

 from Alaska, 352, 429. Descriptions 

 of New Polvchseta from the South- 

 eastern Coast of Massachusetts 

 (Plate XIX). 489, 501. Report of 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



Morton. Robert P., announcement of 

 death of, 509. 



Nolan, Edward J., M.D. Report of 

 Recording Secretary, 580. Report 

 of Librarian. 582. 



Oberholser, Harrj- C. -\ Monograph 

 of the Genus CoUocalia, 176. 177. 



Officers for 1907, 592. 



ttrnithological Section, 591. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. Description of a 

 New Australian Glycj-meris, 176, 

 213. Report of Special Curator of 

 the Department of MoUusca, 587. 



Pilsbry, H. A., and C. M. Cooke, Jr. 

 Ctn Hawaiian Species of Sph^Tadium. 

 176.215. 



Pilsbry. Henry A., and J. H. Ferriss. 

 MoUusca of the Southwestern States. 

 II (Plates V-IX). 5, 123. MoUusc_a 

 of the C)zarkian Fauna (Plates XX, 

 XXI, XXII), 529. 




1906. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



619 



Potts, Howard N., announcement of 

 death of, 429. 



Recluz, E. F., annoimcement of death 

 of, 429. 



Recording Secretary, annual report of, 

 580. 



Rehn, James A. G. Studies in South 

 and Central American Acrididae 

 (Orthoptera), with Descriptions of a 

 New Genus and Six New Species, 5, 

 10. Records and Descriptions of 

 Non-Saltatorial Orthoptera from 

 British Guiana, 261, 262. Descrip- 

 tions of Five New Species of Or- 

 thoptera from Tonkin, 279, 429. 



Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan Heb- 

 ard. A Contribution to the I'ijiowl- 

 edge of the Orthoptera of Montana, 

 Yellowstone Park, Utah and Colo- 

 rado, 358, 429. 



Renevier, Eugene, announcement of 

 death of, 429. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 588. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 

 .581. 



Report of Curators, 586. 



Report of Entomological Section, 589. 



Report of Librarian, 582. 



Report of Ornithological Section, .591. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 581. 



Schaeffer, Mrs. Charles. The Caves 

 and Flowers of the Cougar Valley in 

 the Selkirks, 6. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M.D. Pearls and 

 Pearl Fisheries, 261. History and 

 Habits of the Fur Seals, 489. 



Sinnott, Joseph F., announcement of 

 death of, 429. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D. Report of 

 Entomological Section, 589. 



Smith, Burnett, Ph.D. Phylogeny of 

 the Races of Volutilithes petrosus 

 (Plate II), 51, 52. 



Snaith, Charles, announcement of death 

 of, 6. 



Standing Committees, 1. 



Stevens, N. M., and A. M. Boring. 

 Planaria Morgan! n. sp. (Plate I), 

 6,7. 



Stone, Witmer. Certain Ornitholo- 

 gists of the Past, 5. The Tristram 

 Collection of Birds, 489. Report of 

 Ornithological Section, 591. 



Stur, Dionys, announcement of death 

 of, 429. 



Vaux, George, Jr. Report of Minera- 

 logical and Geological Section, 589. 



Vaux, George, Jr., and William S., Jr. 

 Observations on Glaciers in Alberta 

 and British Columbia (Pis. XXIII 

 etseq.), 176, 509, 568. 



Vischer, Carl V., M.D., announcement 

 of death of, 261. 



Von Osten-Sacken, C. R., announce- 

 ment of death of, 429. 



Ward, Henry A., announcement of 

 death of, 429. 



Watts, Harvey M. Weather Predic- 

 tions, 430. 



Wilson, John C, announcement of 

 death of, 6. 



Wilson, William P. The Philippine 

 Islands, 51. •• < 



Yerkes, Charles T., announcement of 

 death of, 2. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE I. 



'1 





-=- od 



-. vs 



u 



\s^/. ■. pi 



-^:f- r 



STEVENS AND BORING. PLANARIA MORGANI N. 



SP. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



BURNETT SMITH. PHYLOGENY OF THE RACES OF 

 VOLUTILITHES PETROSUS. 





PROC. ACAD, NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE III. 







■'.■.^\-v. 



OGCOCEPHALUS RADIATUS (mitchill). 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE IV. 



MALACLEMMYS LITTORALIS RHIZOPHORARUM FOWLER. 







PRCK;. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE V. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS. MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19C6. 



PLATE VI. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS. MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE Vn. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS. MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROr. ACAD NAT. SCI. PHILA, 1906. 



PLATE VIH 



8 10 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS. MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE IX 



(^f' 4' 



J 



II 



\ 



13 



"•■V 



12 



\ 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT, SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



12 14 16 



MOORE. NORTH PACIFIC POLYCH/ETA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE XI. 



MOORE. NORTH PACIFIC POLYGH^ETA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE XIl. 



4^9 



55 65 



MOORE. NORTH PACIFIC POLYCH.4iTA. 





PHOC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE XIII. 





FOWLER ON DESMOGNATHUS FUSCUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE XIV. 



BANKS. NEW CRIBATID^e. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE XV. 



BANKS. NEW ORIBATID^C. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE XVI. 



BANKS. NEW ORIBATID^E. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE XV!I. 



BANKS. NEW ORIBATID^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA, 1906. 



PLATE XVIII. 



BANKS. NEW ORIBATID/G. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE XIX. 



MOORE. NEV\' POLYCH^CTA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19C6. 



PLATE XX. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS. MOLLUSCA OF THE OZARKIAN FAUNA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE XXI. 



PILS3RY AND FERRISS. MOLLUSCA OF THE OZARKIAN FAUNA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1906. 



PLATE XXII. 





•• 



10 



13 



14 15 



18 ir 2° 



16 



21 



PILSBRY AND FEBRI3S. MOLLUSCA OF THE OZARKIANJ FAUNA. 





13 



O 

 p 



> 



o 

 > 



a 



> 



S 

 r 

 > 



CO 



o 



0) 





•B 



O 

 n 



> 



n 

 > 



p 



> 



r 

 > 



o 

 o 



0) 





o 



> 



2 



D 



> 

 cn 

 G 

 r 



> 



o 

 r 

 > 

 o 



en - 

 H 



3 g 



c S 



8 ^ 

 - O 



CD 

 O 



> 



-z 



D 

 td 



w 



X 



o 

 o 

 r 

 c 

 s 



td 



o 

 n 



> 

 o 



z 



> 



1) 



r 



H 

 M 



y. 





> 

 ■z 



D 



> 



a 

 r 



> 



o ^ 



> > 

 a o 



n 



g ^ 



<c O 

 ■- O 



C/5 



< 



> 



G 



X 



O 



■z 



o 

 r 

 > 

 o 



5 

 ■s 

 CO 



CD 



o 



03 



o 

 o 

 r 



G 



s 



> 





■ti 



o 



o 



> 

 o 

 J- 

 o 



TJ 



X 



r 

 > 



■ti 

 r 



> 



H 

 M 



X 

 X 

 < 





PaOC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 190C. 



PLATE XXVII. 



G. JR, AND W. S. VAUX. ON GLACIERS IN ALBERTA AND BRITISH COLUMBIA. 



V/ENKGHEMNA GLACIER, ALBERTA. 



(SHOWING MORAINE ENCROACHING ON FOREST.) 






PROC ACAD, NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



BIOHT MORAINE 



SECTION THRO GLACIER AT LrME OF PLA-^s" 



PLATE XXVni 



lEFT UORAINE 



TONGUE AND MORAINES 



Of rut. 



ILLECILLEWAET GLACIER 



BRITISH COLUMBIA 



Shtywwg postaon o/Markrd 'Rods an 7>{oraines and of line 



of Platea placed on Glacier to deUrmtite 'Rata ^ r^"*' 



Bl- GEORCi.JR. fc WIUJAM S. VAUX 



'. Lorf .-. 



■ Larga an*iSar biocX C 





3 T^m 



•I -AnfU* a ... 



• Largt iofOfn IpeA («V mart*<l} 



t larft *afQB roc* ("a' m^-At-O 

 I lurgt »i*sni rod Cnrf murkt^d) 

 •i Small rounOtd boMtrffOX -ftjrf 



- . - -- COrt ^JJ 



ft/T.S^ MJdc c^fV fna'HjH (,mil merial} 



S iMifli^boMfOtftfrBm^tanttix.^^-) 



V Ztt M*e«( iouia^ Cjf<f^ ■■'* ^"O 



V M^rKtZretk 



11u gvm/^JpoKlicti smi;/ of main 3tTt^<ai 



: V • c c c- 





PROC ACAD NAT SCI PHILA, 1906. 



PLATE XXIX. 





I 




QH Academy of Natural Sciences 

 £^ of Philadelphia 

 .g Proceedings 



V.58 



Biological 

 & Medical 

 SeritU 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





