





PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA 



7>' 



7^-7 



1865. 



1ft 



P H I L A D E ]. P H I A 



r R T N T K P FOR THE A A I) E M T 



1865. 




QH 



I 



v.!-] 



\'^r-e.. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With references to the several Articles contributed by each. 



Allen, Dr. Harrison. On a New Genus of Vespertilionidae 173 



Carpenter, P. P. Diagnoses Specierum et Varietatum novarum ^lolusco- 

 rum, prope Sinum Pugetianum a Kennerlio Doctore, nuper decesso, 

 collectorum 54 



Cassin, John. Notes on some new and little known Rapacious Birds 2 



An examination of the Birds of the Genus Chrysomitris, in the Museum 



of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.... 89 



On some Conirostral Birds from Costa Rica, in the Collection of the 



Smithsonian Institution 169 



Conrad, T. A. Observations on the Eocene Lignite Formation of the 



United States 70 



Catalogue of the Eocene Annulata, Foraminifera, Echinodermata and 



Cirripedia of the United States 73 



Descriptions of new species of Echinidae 75 



Observation on American Fossils, with descriptions of new species 184 



Cooper, Dr. J. G. On a new Cormorant from the Farallone Islands, 



California 5 



Cope, E. D. Partial Catalogue of Cold-blooded Yertebrata of Michigan. 



Part 2 78 



On Amphibamus graudicep?, a new Batrachian from the Coal Measures 134 



Note on a species of Whale caught in the River Delaware 168 



Note on a species of Hunchback Whale 178 



Third Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America 185 



Contribution to a knowledge of the Delphinidae 198 



Second Contribution to a History of the Delphiuidse 278 



Gill, Theo. Synopsis of the Genus Pomoxy's, Raf. 66 



On the Genus Caulolatilus (^^ 



On the Cranial Characteristics of Gadus proximus, Grd 69 



Note on several Genera of Cypriaoids 69 



On a new Genus of Serraninae lO'l 



On a new Generic Type of Sharks 177 



Oa two new species of Delphinidae, from California, in the Smithsonian 



Institution 177 




IV. LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



Gnnther, Alb. Some remarks on Labrus pulcber (Ayres) 77 



Helmutb, C. A. New species of Mordellidac collected in Illinois 96 



Lawrence, Geo. N. Descriptions of new species of Birds of tbe Families 

 Parid?e, Vireonidae, Tyrannidae and Trocbilidae, witb notes on 



Myiarcbus Panamensis 37 



Descriptions of four new species of Birds from the Isthmus of Panama, 



New Granada lOfi 



Lea, Isaac, Descriptions of Tbree New Species of Exotic TJniones 75 



Descriptions of Eight New Species of Unio of the United States 88 



Le Conte, Dr. J. L. Note on the Species of Myodites, Latr., inhabiting the 



UnitedStates 96 



Notes on the Species of Harpalus inhabiting America north of Mexico... 98 

 On the Species of Galeruca and allied Genera inhabiting North America, 204 

 Prodroraus of a Monograph of the Species of the Tribe Anobiinii of the 



Family Ptinidae, inhabiting North America 222 



Lewis, Dr. F. W. On Extreme and Exceptional Variations of Diatoms, in 



some White Mountain localities 7 



Meek, F. B., and A. H. Worthen. Notice of some New Types of Organic 



Remains, from the Coal Measures of Illinois 41 



Remarks on the Genus Taxocrinus (Phillips) McCoy, 1844; and its rela- 

 tions to Forbesiocrinus, Koninck and Le Hon, 1854, with descrip- 

 tions of New Species 138 



Descriptions of New Species of Crinoidea, &c., from the Palaeozoic Rocks 



of Illinois and some of tbe adjoining States 143 



Descriptions of New Crinoidea, &c., from the Carboniferous Rocks of 



Illinois and some of the adjoining States 155 



Note on the Genus Gilbertsocrinus, Phillips, by F. B. Meek... 166 



Contributions to the Palaeontology of Illinois and other Western States, 245 

 Observations on the Microscopic Shell Structure of Spirifcr cuspidatus, 



Sowerby, and some similar American Forms, by F. B. Meek 275 



Tryon, Geo. W. Synonomy of the Species of Strepomatidae, a Family of 



Fluviatile Mollusca inhabiting North America. Part 4 19 



Winchell, Alex. Descriptions of New Species of Fossils, from the Marshall 

 Group of Michigan, and its supposed Equivalents in other States ; 

 with Notes on some Fossils of the same Age previously described, 109 



Wood, Dr. H. C. New Polyzonidae 172 



Worthen, A. H. See Meek. 




r.wzid. 





lib 



16 a 



16 b 



y'.- J 



!7 



Sr.l'extnam. J, 





y^s 



PEOCEEDINGS 



OP THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1865. 



January Bd. 

 Mr. Joseph Jeanes in the Chair. 



Thirteen members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication and referred to a 

 committee : 



" On extreme and exceptional variations of species of Diatomaceae. 

 etc." By F. W. Lewis, M. D. 



January 10th. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 

 Twelve members present. 



January 17 th. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Fifteen members present. 



The following paper was presented and referred to a committee : 

 " Remarks on the genera Semicossyphus and Trochocopus." By Dr. 

 A. Giinther. 



January 24th. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Ten members present. 



The following paper was presented and referred to a comdiittee : 



" Synopsis of the Strepomatidae, &c., Part IV." By George W. 

 Try on, Jr. 



The Secretary announced the recent death of Dr. R. M. S. Jackson, 

 late a Correspondent of this Academy. 

 1865.] 1 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



January 31s^ 

 The President, De. Bridges, in the Chair. 



members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Notes on some new and little known Bapacions BIBDS. 

 BY JOHN CASSIN. 



1. PoLTBORUs AuDUBosii, nobis. 



Polyborus vulgaris (Vieill.), Aud., Orn. Biog., ii. p. 350 (1834). 



Polyborus brasiliensis (Gm.), Aud., B. of Am., Oct. ed. i. p. 21 (1840). 



Polyborus tharus (Mol.), Cass., B. of Gal. and Texas, i. p. 113. 

 Aud., B. of Am., pi. ISl ; Oct. ed., i. pi. 4. 



Back and rump brownish black in all ages and stages of plumage, (not 

 transversely banded as in P. tharus.) Under tail coverts white, nearly pure, 

 or with a few indistinct traces of dark transverse bands on the longer fea- 

 thers. In all other respects very similar to P. tharus of Chili and other coun- 

 tries on the Pacific coast of South America. In P. tharus i\iQ back and rump 

 are transversely banded with brownish black and white, in all ages, and the 

 tinder tail coverts are white, with well defined transverse narrow bands of 

 dark brown. In size, the present bird seems to be rather the larger. 



The specimen now described is Mr. Audubon's type from Florida, presented 

 by him to this Academy, and is very accurately given in the plates above 

 cited, the upper figures in which represent the black upper parts as above 

 described. In his descriptions, he says " cere carmine" which color is also 

 given in his plates ; but in the South American species, seen in abundance 

 in Patagonia by Dr. Charles Pickering, during the voyage of the United 

 States Exploring Expedition in the Vincennes and Peacock, that distin- 

 guished naturalist says explicitly, " The skin about the bill has not the bright 

 red color as given in Mr. Audubon's figure from a Florida specimen." (Mamm. 

 and Orn. U. S. Expl. Exp., p. 100.) This difference in the color of the cere 

 may be characteristic, though more probably, in my opinion, it is dependent 

 on season only, the brighter or red color being that accompanying the more 

 mature or nuptial plumage, which is the case in the Rasorial or Gallinaceous 

 birds, and analogous groups throughout the circle of Birds. Numerous spe- 

 cimens of this species, from Texas and Mexico, are in the collection of the 

 Smithsonian Institution. 



2. Spilornis Bacha, (Daudin.) 



Falco Bacha, Daud., Traits d'Orn., ii. p. 43 (1800). 



Spilornis Bacha, (Daud.) Cass., Proc. Acad. Philada., 1859, p. 31. 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr., i. pi. 5. 



In a Catalogue of birds collected by Mr. DuChaillu in the countries on the 

 Camma and Ogobai Rivers, Western Africa, printed in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy, as above cited, I applied the name Spilornis Bacha to a species, one 

 specimen of which was in that collection and is now in the Academy Museum. 

 This specimen is evidently that of a young bird bearing little resemblance in 

 colors to the adult, and I have seen no other of the same species from West- 

 ern Africa. In the statement in the Catalogue alluded to, that this species is 

 "quite identical with the Bacha of Southern Africa, of which a very com- 

 plete series is in the Academy Museum," I may have been mistaken in relying 

 on such specimens as being from that continent. I do not know, however, 

 that such is certainly the case ; the specimen now before me from Western 

 Africa so nearly resembling other young birds in the Academy Museum, nn- 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



doubtedly the species usually regarded as S. Bacha, and variously labelled as 

 Asiatic and African, that I am not quite sure that Bacha is not an African 

 species, whatever else may have been advanced in any other behalf. 



There are in the Academy Museum, several specimens of the bird usually 

 regarded as F. bacha, which have been labelled in Europe as from South 

 Africa. If I committed an error, it was not because I relied on those la- 

 bels, of the authority of which I know nothing, nor can now discover any- 

 thing, but that I took them only as confirmatory of an impressiou that F. 

 bacha was an Africafl as well as Asiatic species. If in error, I was directly 

 misled by the statement of that great naturalist, Temminck, in PI. Col., i. 

 liv. iv., to this effect : " La Buse bacha, Falco bacha, des catalogues m6tho- 

 diques, est r^pandue non-seulement dans I'Afrique m^ridionale, mais on la 

 trouve aussi dans I'lndie, a Java et a Sumatra." Statements of a similar 

 import I have seen elsewhere. It is, of course, possible, that Temminck 

 and others may have relied solely on Le Vaillant without other information. 



But, notwithstanding the impeachment of the veracity of Le Vaillant, and 

 the opinions on that point that have, ia some instances, been freely ex- 

 pressed, and seem to be rather fashionable, I shall not admit, I beg to say, 

 either that Spilornis Bacha is not an African bird, or that Le Vaillant's ac- 

 count of the species to which he applied the name Bacha is not reliable, 

 without further occasion. Those opinions I do by no means participate in 

 nor approve, and instaaces of the expression of such have occurred, which 

 present themselves to me in no other aspect than that of unqualified imper- 

 tinence, and as demoastrative not only of deficient information on the part 

 of the writers, but of a disposition to seek a short and easy road to notoriety 

 by rude assaults on the reputation of a great practical, and most useful natu- 

 ralist, whose only faults were an enthusiastic devotion to Natural History, 

 and failure to elicit the appreciation of men of dissimilar temperament and 

 greater stolidity of ambitioa. The fair fame of Le Vaillant has passed the 

 ordeal of one-half century productive of great naturalists, and its impeach- 

 ment will not, I suspect, blazon the reputation of any one likely to be such 

 in the present cycle of similar period ! 



There are now before me, a series of fourteen specimens of the bird pur- 

 porting to be F. Bacha, from the Academy Museum, about half of which are 

 in various stages of young plumage, and of the whole of which scarcely 

 any two are precisely alike in colors. One stage of young plumage is un- 

 doubtedly that given by Temminck, under the name "Falco alhidus, Cuv.," in 

 PI. Col., 19. As stated above, a few of these specimens have been labelled 

 in Europe as coming from " South Africa," of the validity of which 

 locality I know nothing. Other specimens are undoubtedly Asiatic, and, 

 though differing from each other in some particulars of character, and, per- 

 haps, representing several supposed species, they are all probably to be re- 

 garded as that entitled to the name Spilornis chcela, (Daudin). Several 

 specimens so nearly resemble Temminck's figure of F. albidiis, above cited, 

 that they cannot be mistaken for any other species. I do not clearly recog- 

 nise the nearly allied species, though they may be quite valid, especially F. 

 bido, Horsfield. 



Le Vaillant's figure of •' Le Bacha," Ois. d'Afr., i. pi. 15, does assuredly 

 bear a strong resemblance to the Asiatic bird, and I am not prepared to deny 

 that it represents either an Indian or Malayan species ; but it is also a fact, 

 that the young bird from Mr. DuChaillu's collectioa bears a most uumistake- 

 ablc resemblance to young birds, undoubtedly Asiatic, in the Academy Mu- 

 seum. On inspection and comparison of any of the Asiatic with the African 

 specimen, few naturalists would hesitate in pronouncing them ideutical, and 

 the conclusion is most directly indicated that, if this African specimen is not 

 of the same species as the Asiatic specimens, it is of a very nearly allied 

 species. 1 regard it as possible, that Le Vaillant may have given a figure 



1865.] 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



from an Indian or Malayan specimen, under the full and honest conriction 

 that it was exactly the bird seen by him in the mountains of the Great Nama- 

 quois, — a description of error (if it is such) in which he is by no means 

 singular. One of the most eminent ornithologists of our own times is stated 

 to have given figures of a species of Loxia from American specimens, in his 

 splendid work, " The Birds of Europe," — and if so, entirely justifiably, the 

 European and American species never having then been suspected of being 

 different species. 



The specimen now before me, from Western Africa, I regard as proving 

 conclusively that a species, at least nearly allied to Spilornis cheela and S. bido, 

 inhabits Africa, and I have no doubt that this species was seen and described 

 by Le Vaillant with entire truthfulness. He may not have figured a specimen 

 obtained by himself, but even on this point there is only hypothetical conjec- 

 ture, not evidence. The bird described by him is, moreover, entitled to the 

 name Falco Bacha; an appellation given by Daudin, as cited above, entirely 

 on the faith of the description in Oiseaux d'Afrique. No Indian nor Malayan 

 species is fairly entitled to this appellation, though it has been applied to 

 both, with observations thereon not quite warranted by the facts. Various, 

 not remotely allied, forms have recently been discovered in Africa, (Circaetus 

 zonurus, fasciolaius, and others.) and my opinion is. that the adult of this 

 species of Le Vaillant will yet be forthcoming. 



3. Haliaetus Blagrus, (Daudin). 



Falco blagrus, Daud., Traite d"Orn., ii. p. TO, (1800). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr., i. pi. 5. 



In the Catalogue of Mr. DuChaillu's collection in the Camma and Ogobai 

 country, above alluded to, I gave this name to a specimen of a young bird 

 which I regarded as identical with others in the Academy Museum. On re- 

 examination of this specimen, I am inclined to doubt its identity with any 

 species known to me, though it is in plumage not sufficiently mature to com- 

 pare satisfactorily or to determine from my present materials. It is so much 

 smaller than the young H. vocifer that I cannot believe it identical, though 

 bearing some resemblance to the youngest specimen of that species (//. voci- 

 fer) in the Academy Museum. The feet, especially, are disproportionately 

 smaller and weaker. In the Haliaeli of North America, there is a very con- 

 siderable diversity of size, but never so great in the same species, to my 

 knowledge, as in the specimens here mentioned. 



Though, perhaps, too young to present even structural characters in a re- 

 liable degree, the present specimen seems to show relations to the Asiatic 

 group of which H. leucogaster is a well known species, and of which Mr. 

 Blyth and Dr. Jerdon give the name Falco blagrus^ Daudin, as a synonyme. 

 Without being able, at present, to assent to this disposition of F. blagrus, I 

 regard the views of those excellent naturalists as at least an important ap- 

 proximation to its relationship, but am disposed also to suspect that my 

 specimen may be the young of a species the adult plumage of which remains 

 to be discovered. I regard it as undoubtedly the young of the Blagre of Le 

 Vaillant, as above cited, the credibility of whose narrative in relation to which 

 I do not doubt in any particular. The relative size of the feet in this species 

 and in H. vocifer may readily be seen in plates 4 and 5 of that author's Oise- 

 aux d'Afrique. 



4. LlMNAETHS AFEICANUS, nobis. 



Belongs to the same group as L. cirrhatus (= Falco limnaetus, Horsf.) and L. 

 Kieneri, and bears a general resemblance to both of those species, and is 

 about the same size. Upper parts black, under parts white. 



General form very strong ; bill rather short, fully curved ; edge of upper 

 mandible lobed ; wing moderate, fourth and fifth quills longest, and nearly 

 equal; tail rather long ; tarsi thick, and densely feathered to the toes, the bases 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



of which are also feathered ; toes and claws very strong. Entire upper parts 

 brownish black ; plumage of the back and neck behind white at base ; rump 

 and upper tail coverts with concealed large spots of white ; quills brownish 

 black on their outer surface, with a few transverse bands of a darker shade 

 of the same color, and with a large space on their inner webs white ; under 

 surface of quills white, with about three transverse bands of black. Entire 

 under parts white ; flanks, under tail coverts and tibial plumes externally 

 with large spots of brownish black ; tail on its upper surface dark ashy 

 brown, with about five wide transverse bands of brownish black, and nar- 

 rowly tipped with white, on its under surface ashy white, with a few trans- 

 verse bands of black. Under wing coverts white, with large spots of black ; 

 tarsi white ; cere and toes yellow ; bill dark bluish brown. Axillary feathers 

 brownish black, the black spots on the under wing coverts unitedly form a 

 large space of that color on the under surface of the wing. Total length 

 about 22 inches; wing 14; tail9|; tarsus 2|; bill, from corner of mouth 

 direct to tip of upper mandible, Ih inches. 



Ilab. — Ogobai River, a tributary of the Gamma River, Western Africa. 



Spec, in Acad. Mus., from Mr. DuChaillu's collection. 



Two specimens of this Hawk-Eagle are in the collection from the Gamma 

 River, above mentioned, and appear to represent a species hitherto unknown, 

 probably generically different from any other of Western Africa. Though, 

 in my opinion, properly to be included in the group Limnaetus, this bird is 

 more strongly organized than either L. niveus, cirrhalus, Kicnerii, or other of 

 the Asiatic species that have come under my notice, and more decidedly 

 aquiline in some points of character. The tirsi are very thick and densely 

 covered, much more so than in either of the species just mentioned, and 

 quite as much so as in the larger Aquilse, or as in the Owls of the genus 

 liubo. The bill also is strong and fully curved. No crest is apparent in 

 either specimen, though there is, perhaps, a slight elongation of the 

 occipital feathers. 



5. Otus stygius, (Wagler.) 



Nijctalops stygius^ Wagl., Isis, 1832, p. 1221. 



Archives du Mus., Paris, 1844, pi. 24. 



Several specimens of this little known species have been received at the 

 Smithsonian Institution in the valuable collections presented by Mr. Sarto- 

 rius, and obtained hy him at Mirador, near Vera Gruz, Mexico. All of them 

 correspond with the descriptions of both Wagler and Pucheran, though 

 darker than the figure given by the latter, as above cited. 



On anew CORMORANT from the Farallone Islands, California. 



BY J. G. COOPER, M. D. 



Graculus Bairdii, Gruher, MSS. The White-patch Cormorant. 

 ? Graculus leuconotus, Audubon. 

 Specific Characters. — Male in spring. Head and neck changeable violet and 

 purple with green reflections ; body dark green. Back and wings greenish 

 purple, the quills brownish towards their ends and beneath. Flanks with a 

 large white patch on each side about equal in size to the bird's foot, mostly 

 concealed by the wings when folded. Tail like the wings. Head with a crest 

 of narrow loose feathers about an inch long, arising on the middle of ver- 

 tex above the eyes ; another similar crest arising just behind the occiput, 

 rather longer. Bill very slender, subquadrangular, strongly and abruptly 

 hooked. Length 27 inches ; extent 40.00, wing 10-75 ; tail 7, bill along ridge 

 1-90, along gape 3-00, its height and width at base each about O-pO inch ; 

 tarsus 1-50 ; outer toe and claw 3-7() ; inner do. 1-30 ; second and third quills 

 about equal, longest ; half an inch longer than secondaries and an inch 



1865.] 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



longer than tertiaries. Iris green, bill horn-black ; feet pure black. Gular 

 sac black, with red marks (shrinking and looking dull red when dry). A nar- 

 row patch of skin around eye, extending as far back as that around angle of 

 mouth and gular sac. A sharp angle covered with feathers extends on middle 

 line of throat, a little further forward than eyes. Forehead feathered down 

 to bill, leaving only a narrow loral space bare. 



This species is closely related to the G. violaceus of the Oregon and Wash- 

 ington coasts, and replaces it as on the coast of npper and lower California. 

 According to Mr. James Hepburn, it differs in a much more slender bill and 

 other points of structure, as well as in the presence of the conspicuous white 

 patches on the flanks. 



In 1834 Mr. J. K. Townsend saw " at Cape Disappointment ten Cormorants, 

 one with a white tail, the others with a white rump," which, without further 

 description, Mr. Audubon called Phalacrocorax leitcurus and P. leuconotus. 

 It is quite possible that Townsend might have referred to P. hairdii, in his 

 notes as above quoted, but as neither attribute applies to the present species 

 the names would be inadmissible, even if accompanied by a diagnosis. I 

 myself saw what I believed to be this species at the mouth of the Columbia 

 River, in July, 1854, but could not obtain specimens. Mr. F. Gruber, of this 

 city, was the first to secure specimens of the species and distribute them as 

 P. bairdii, (named after Prof. S. F. Baird, of the»Smithsonian Institution) and 

 informs me that the species was published under that name in Germany, al- 

 though I have not been able to find it, and think it is possible that it may still 

 he a manuscript communication. It is with great pleasure that I append the 

 following note on this species : 



Note on Graculus Bairdii, the White patched Cormorant of the Farrallone 



Islands, California, by James Hepbukn, San Francisco. 



(Frum a letter addressed to the Smithsonian Institution, dated Dec. 30th, 1862. 



"While at Barclay Sound, I noticed that there appeared to be a Cormorant 

 there about the size of the one from the Farallones — but without any white 

 spot. I could only get one of them, and that on the last day I was out. On 

 examining it, I found that it was of the same size as the other, but it had an 

 orange gular pouch, as described by Audubon, whereas the other, as I have 

 already insisted, has a dusky pouch, with numerous bright red papillae, much 

 too striking a point to be overlooked by any one who sees the bird while in the 

 flesh. Another difference is that the irides of the former are brown, those of 

 the latter sea-green. The plumage too is dissimilar in coler, though both of 

 them might fairly be called violet green. In the Farallones' bird, however, 

 the green greatly predominates, in the other the violet. With respect to the 

 white spot. I have seen the bird with it as early as February, and as late as 

 the middle of July, at which time it showed no signs of disappearing, though 

 the G. diloplius had mouths previously lost its crests. I have never been 

 able to see the bird in autumn, which I am very anxious to do. If, as I 

 think, it then appears with the white patch, the question of its being the 

 breeding plumage is disposed of. At any rate the birds in Barclay Sound had 

 no patch at the end of March. The only remaining conjecture is that one may 

 be the young of the other ; and this I find is Dr. Suckley's idea, who appears 

 to have remarked both kinds at Cape Disappointment. To this I object that 

 I do not know of the patchless bird having been noticed in California, and I 

 am very certain that I saw non,e with a patch about Vancouver Island. As to 

 their frequenting Cape Disappointment, that would only prove that to be 

 the boundary line of their respective habitats. I am aware that it is danger- 

 ous work to build speculations as I am doing, on a single specimen ; but I 

 shall do my best to find out where the northern bird breeds, and to obtain a 

 sitting bird with its eggs ; and then should the differences be equally marked 

 at that period, if there is any such thing as species, the two birds must, I 

 think, be pronounced distinct.'- 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



On extreme and ezceptionals variation of DIATOMS, in some White Mountain 



localities, &c. 



BY F. W. LEWIS, M. D. 



la my notice of some new and singular intermediate forms of Diatomaceje 

 from the Saco headwaters, in the Proceedings of the Academy for December, 

 1863, I advanced a theory based ou the comparative absence of Synedra and 

 Nitzschia in the sub-peat of this country, that these curious species were trans- 

 itionary or comprehensive types conducting from Surirella and allied genera, to- 

 wards the more modern Synedra and Nitzschia ; and that their continuance as 

 living organisms probably depended on exceptional conditions of soil and 

 water, more or less limited in their influence, peculiar to the Saco and similar 

 localities. 



Since the publication of that paper I have received from my friend, Mr. C. 

 Stodder, of Boston, a very interesting lot of slides containing all of these 

 anomalous species, prepared by himself and Mr. R. C. Greenleaf, of Boston, 

 from gatherings at various points along the White Mountain range. 



His localities are as follows : 



(1.) "Brook near the Flijme," (Franconia Notch) — thirty miles from the 

 Saco pond, and near the western outlet of the valley; contains Surirella 

 Bailcyi^ S. intermedia, Actinella punctata, Eunotia incisa. 



(2.) " Lafayette Mountain Lake," not many miles distant from the preceding- 

 This lake is at a considerable elevation ; a still sheet of water ; contains Su- 

 rirella intermedia, Actinella pu?ictata, Eunotia incisa, Synedra hemicyclus. 



(3.) " Brook near Bethlehem," on the S. E. side of the Crawford Notch 

 (Saco) about 15 miles distant, also in the valley ; contains Surirella intermedia. 

 S. anceps, S. delicatissima, S. Baileyi, Synedra hemicyclus. 



(4.) " Maurans Lake," on the Cannon Mountain, near Franconia ; contains 

 Surirella Baileyi, S. anceps, S. delicatissima, Actinella punctata, Synedra hemicyclus. 



Of this locality Mr. S. writes, " This Lake is on the Cannon Mountain at a 

 high level rarely visited by travellers. The gathering is surface water." 



(5.) " Bemis Pond," not many miles from the Saco spring, is a small Lake. 

 The gathering, according to Mr. S., is '• a peculiar sub-aqueous deposit" form- 

 ing the bottom of the pond, " about six feet thick, and composed of nearly pure 

 diatoms." The contained species are Surirella Baileyi, S. intermedia, S. anceps. 

 Eunotia incisa. 



Mr. Stodder adds, " that in his opinion the only explanation of the origin 

 of this and other similar deposits is afforded on the supposition that these 

 diatoms were originally carried out into the still waters of the lake by small 

 streams, and there deposited," an explanation not altogether satisfactory, as 

 most of the species are still-water forms : Navicula rhomboides. N. firma, N. 

 major, Eunotia robusta," ^-c, usually found in ponds and boggy pools. 



Similar deposits, not containing any of the transitionary species, occur iit 

 other localities in New England. One of the most remarkable, ten feet in 

 thickness, is at Randolph, Massachusetts, another at Bristol, N. H. 



Mr. S. thinks, also, that these beds have been deposited at varying periods 

 since the glacial period. 



(6.) "Echo Lake" (Franconia Notch,) a remarkably beautiful pond lying 

 in the very gorge of the Notch ; contains Surirella intermedia, Synedra hemicy- 

 clus, Eunotia incisa, and curious varieties of Navicula serians and Odontidium 

 tabellaria, hereafter to be noticed. 



(7.) " Gibbs Falls," a short distance from the Saco springs to the west, 

 contains Surirella intermedia, S. delicatissima, Actinella punctata, Eunotia incisa, 

 along with recent species. 



(8.) " Milldam at Gorhaui," on the Glen side of Mount Washington, con- 



1865.] 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



tains Surirella intermedia, S. anceps, S. delicatissima, Eunotia incisa, ^-c, along 

 with recent species. 



Tliese localities are all within the range of glacial influence. 

 After a careful examination of the slides, prepared from gatherings from 

 these localities, I have been struck not only by a general correspondence in 

 their species and varieties to those of the Saco and Wolfboro muds, but also 

 by their nnlikeness to species and varieties outside the White Mountain tract. 

 In speaking of the Saco and Wolfboro species I alluded to their general re- 

 semblance to those of the sub-peat and jt?ea< deposits ; the same remark of 

 course holds good in reference to Mr. Stodder's localities. I will here simply 

 confine myself to the statement of this general resemblance which further on 

 will be illustrated by a table of species. 



There is one point, however, relating to the curious tendency to variation, 

 usually on a definite direction, apparent in many of these localities in com- 

 mon with post-tertiary deposits in other northern sections of this country, 

 which requires a passing notice. 



This tendency, which for convenience I shall call metamorphic, seems to co- 

 incide with the abundant introduction of certain genera in new localities. It 

 is marked by a singular relaxation of the laws governing what I have before 

 termed the non-essential characters of genus ; in other words, while respecting 

 the more fixed and positive generic charsLCters .{essential,) as aloe, canaliculi, 

 median lines, nodules, ^c, it would seem to exhaust its influence on the more 

 general and unimportant ones, as size, outline, striation, &c., common to all 

 diatoms (non-essential.) 



Besides the intermediate or comprehensive type already spoken of. there would 

 appear to result from this metamorphic tendency a subjective variation in many 

 co-existing genera whether allied or not to the incoming one. This variation, 

 which is not always special in its direction towards any type or genus, affects 

 principally the size, form, valvular outline and striation of many species, 

 manifesting itself oftenest in a disposition to assume an undulate, crenulate, 

 apiculate or even cruciform shape ; more rarely to lose these characters. It 

 would seem to originate in a superabundance of the sporangial element, and 

 frequently begets irregular, abnormal or unsymmetrical forms, according to 

 the more or less spasmodic or intermittent action of the disturbing force. I 

 may add that, in accordance wiih a well known law, most of these so formed 

 varieties, where involving alteration of generic characters, as Surirella interme- 

 dia, S. anceps, &c., or where irregular and unsymmetrical, as Actinella, either 

 rapidly disappear by a process of degeneration {visible in S. intermedia,) or 

 revert to the normal type, while the extreme varieties, not implicating generic 

 character, on the other hand may often become more or less permanent, as in 

 Naviciila firraa , N. rhomboides, N. serians. and others. 



To render more intelligible what I have tried to explain above, I shall now 

 notice a few of the most remarkable varieties contained in the Saco spring, 

 Wolfboro, and Mr. Stodder's localities. 



(1.) "Naticcla serians" (Kutz.) '-Y. Sicuie; transverse striae faint, 60 in 

 •100; longitudinal distinct. 36 in -100 :" frustules often cohering: Length 

 •0017^^ "to -0035'^," (Smith.) 



(2.) Yar. a (apiculate.) Y. varying from lanceolate elliptic to rhomboid, 

 with apices more or less produced and capitate (fig. 5a, pi. ii.) 



(3.) Yar. b {cruciform.) = N. follu, (Ehr.) =N. inflata, (Ehr.) ? '-Y. much 

 inflated, compressed, sloping abruptly towards the produced and often trun- 

 cate apices ; extreme variety cruciform." (fig. 56, pi. ii.) 



Yar. a. {apiculate) about two-thirds, and Yar. b. {cruciform) less than one- 

 half the length of the typical form. 



Striation in both varieties beyond a certain distortion on the latter variety 

 precisely resembling that of the typical form, 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



My attention was attracted long since, bjthe singular likeness, in striation, 

 median nodule, and general character, of Navicula serians to N.follis, (Ehr.), 

 a form not uncommon in northiern post glacial deposits. 



Ehreuberg's loose figures of the latter {N". folHs), give so many varieties of 

 outline, and his description is so vague, that in time it seems to have become 

 confounded by the English writers, with Navicula inflata, a species having no 

 analogies to it beyond a slight resemblance in outline. 



Indeed it is probable, that Ehrenberg himself, owing to the use of im- 

 perfect microscopes may have been led to associate these two very distinct 

 species, and in distributing specimens may thus have originated the mistake. 



However this may be, it is evident that in describing the form called N. 

 follis, in the Bridgewater peat, (Mass.,) he did mean the one figured as var. b. 

 (cruciform), of N. serians, fig. 5 b. pi. ii."- 



The general resemblance in character, however, would not have sufficed 

 to prove the specific identity of these two forms, viz. iV. serians and its var. 

 b. cruciform, — had it not been for the discovery of a second variety which 

 bridges over tlTe interspace — that figured as N. serians, var. a. fig. 5, a. pi. ii. 

 'This variety occurs in two of the White Mountain localities, Bemis Lake, and 

 Echo Lake, along with the typical form and the cruciform, var. b, a strong 

 corroborative evidence beside that afforded by numerous intermediate vari- 

 eties of a common derivation. , 



As this is a fact which, if recognized, involves a most important point in 

 its bearing on the laws which determine species, I have drawn with vitmost 

 care (fig. 5, a. b. pi. ii.) the valves of what appear to be average specimens 

 of these two varieties. The Bemis Lake' slides of Mr. Samuels, now very 

 difficult to obtain, are very carefully mounted, and afford beautiful illustra- 

 tions of these forms, — as well as of Stauroneis Stodderii, n. sp. (Greenleaf,) (fig. 

 6, pi. ii.) The material is quite scarce at the present time, although it could 

 no doubt readily be procured from the original locality. 



(1). "Navicula firma" (Kutz). — Large, turgid, oblong, lanceolate, with 

 obtuse, cuneate ends, thick borders, and large median nodule; striae wanting, 

 or obscure." 



(2). "Varieties." — (:x). linear oblong, {Navicula iridis.) ji. pointed elliptic, 

 [N. dila(ata). y. cuneate [N. amphigomphus.) 



(3). ^^ Secondary or metamorphic varieties." S. triundulale, (not the same as 

 N. Hitchcockii). i produced {N. producta. N. affinis). ^. apiculate. {N. a77iphirjjnchus). 



The specific identitj- of N. iridis, N. dilat'ala, N. amphigomphus, and perhaps 

 one or two other reputed species has, I believe, been generally suspected, if 

 not recognized. Certainly, it would be difficult for any one carefullj- studying 

 the Northern deposits of this country, Avhether recent or fossil, to resist the 

 conviction, that they really have a common origin. With regard, however, 

 to some of those I have termed secondare/ or metamorphic, their common deriva- 

 tion from jV. firma is not so obvious. I believe them, notwithstanding, to be 

 all varieties of that species, a conclusion I have arrived at, after a careful 

 comparison of gatherings from numerous localities. As, however, a conclusion 

 so formed may be regarded as more a matter of prepossession than admitting of 

 proof, I shall not undertake to illustrate it by elaborate descriptions of these 

 varieties ; but this much may be said, that what has hitherto kept apart many of 

 the best known of them, is' simply difference in valvular outline and number of 

 strice. If, hereafter, my view with regard to the unimi)ortance and mutability 

 of these characters be proved correct, the union of some, if not all these 

 reputed species will probably be necessary. 



Taking all the enumerated varieties, there appear to be certain general 



(♦I am the more certain of this, from my friend Prof. H. L Smith, of Kenyon College, 0., taaTiog 

 recently written to me, calling attention to this very fact.) 



1865.] 




10 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



points of resemblance between them. These are — (1). " The large open median 

 nodular space." 



(2). The inira-marginal, dark, and more or less broken line or lines, with separO' 

 tion and distortion on the peculiar wavy longitudinal striation at that point." 



(3). " The sharp, clear, parallel, transverse striie. 



This last character seems to me, to afford a valuable clue for determining the 

 primary or secondary nature of any undulate or apiculate form. As a general 

 rule, it will be found, I think, that parallel transverse strice, coinciding with 

 an undulate margin, imply a secondary or metamorphic action on a species 

 whose original outline was smooth; while on the other hand, a radiant trans- 

 verse striation, or, rather, one consiiixitlj perpetidicular to the marginal line, indi- 

 cates that an undulate outline is primary. Thus, e.g. the triundulate oatVine of Na- 

 vicula Hitchcockii, concurring with a. parallel, transverse, striation, is most likely, 

 secondary ; also the crenulate dorsum of Himantidium undulatum (extreme 

 variety). While the large and showy Navicula Sillimanornum, (fig. 8, pi. ii.) 

 ought by the same rule to possess a, primary outline, although much exagger- 

 ated and intensified. In the apiculate forms, the metamorphic force being 

 operative over but a small terminal portion of the valvular margin, renders 

 the rule less valuable. 



Although liable to many exceptions, this rule may be sufficiently general 

 to possess a practical value, when taken in connection with other means of 

 proof. 



I cannot leave these varieties of iV^._;?rma, without adverting to the species 

 known as N. Hitchcockii, which has been regarded by some, as a variety of 

 the former species. There is a triundulate variety of N. firma approaching 

 very near to it in size and outline, but differing essentially iiji the median 

 line, which in iV. Hiic/icoc^-// is remarkable as having on either side a double 

 line, nearly parallel to its course throughout. That it is of the habit of N. 

 firma, however, can hardly be questioned ; and although not clearly traceable 

 to that species, may it not, perhaps, be a compound variety, resulting from 

 the conjugation of species reputed distinct, but in reality, only so sporangially ? 



I take occasion here to quote some very interesting remarks of Professor 

 H. L. Smith, who has long been studying the habits of living dialomacex, and 

 whose observations bearing on this and other points in that connection, will, 

 I trust, shortly be made public. In a recent letter to me', speaking on this 

 very subject of extreme variation, he says : " The variety of N. firma ? like N'. 

 Hitchcockii, somewhat, on one of the slides you recently sent me (Saco River,) 

 is curious ; but if you will examine the Bridgewater deposit, I think you will 

 see something about N. follis of Ehr., that makes one almost say it is only a 

 variety of A^. serians. The departure is greater, even as to form alone, than 

 that of the specimen of iV. firma ? like Hitchcockii is from the type of that 

 species." — He adds; " when I find N. amphirhynchus conjugating and pro- 

 ducing N. firma, Stauroneis gracilis producing St. phenicenferon, and Surirella 

 gplendida, S. nohilis, quite different in form and striation, I cannot but doubt 

 the propriety of making a new species out of every different shape and 

 marking." 



The views of Prof. Smith here expressed, cannot fail to awaken a lively 

 interest in all who desire to have light thrown upon this perplexing question, 

 and it is earnestly to be hoped, that the matured result of his investigations 

 will not long be delayed. 



Navicula. rhomboides is, with one or two exceptions, of all northern species 

 the most common and widely distributed. It offers a broad range of form 

 and outline. Like N. firma, it has its elliptic, produced and apiculate forms. 

 I may preface what I have to say of this species, by remarking that it is, in 

 my opinion, impossible to determine on any positive characters, which shall 

 distinguish it from N. crassinervia. The small apiculate variety which I have 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 11 



been accustomed to regard as that species, clearly runs into the typical iV. 

 rhomboides, of which it is most probably a coUetonemoid (sporangia!) offset. 



Two of the numerous varieties of this species, seem to be permanently 

 distinct — more so, in fact, than in most permanent varieties — although con- 

 nected by intermediate forms with the ordinary type. 



N. rhomboides, (Ehr.) V. nearly quadrangular, striae, faint, parallel 85 in. 

 •001^^» Length -0022^^, to 0037^^ (Smith). 



Sporangial Varieties, (1). (a). " Frustule large, V. rhomboid to lanceolate — 

 median line double, presenting at the terminal nodules a peculiar arrangement, 

 somewhat similar to the " porte crayon" of Dr. Greville, as it exists in JV. 

 Levjisiana — only much less obvious." (pi. ii., fig. 11). 



The transverse strite in this form, are about, 60 in -OOF^, "the longitudinal, 

 about, 45 in -OOK^." Length variable. 



Hab. — In nearly all fossil and recent northern deposits. 



(2). (b). N. diaphana'i (Ehr.) S. lanceolate — extremities slightly pro- 

 duced — obtuse, median line thiclier than in var. a, terminating in obtuse, 

 rounded, nodular expansions rarely attenuated laterally — striae transverse , 

 about 50 a 55 in -00 K''. Longitudinal, coarser and more wavy than in var. a, 

 more or less indistinct for some distance round the central nodule. 



Hab. — Bemis Lake, abundant, Saco pond, Wolfboro, and other New Eng- 

 land deposits. It is not so common as var. a. (pi. ii., fig, 10). 

 • The former of these, is probably the ordinary sporangial variety of N. 

 rhomboides ; the latter, I have found more rarely in gatherings along the Saco 

 Valley, and — I think, elsewhere in New England — I have been struck with 

 the rarity of both these varieties, particularly, of var. b. on foreign slides.* 



Var. a, sometimes approaches var. b in outline ; but, I have never seen the 

 latter of a quadrangular or rhomboid shape. Occasionally the terminal 

 nodule undergoes a trifling modification, becoming slightly indented at the 

 rounded corners. This may, perhaps, be a compound variety. 



Figured at pi. ii., fig. 21, is what I believe to be N. Carassius, (Ehr)., (.^. 

 cocconeiformis, (Smith). (Gregory's new British sp. Mic. Jour. vol. iv. pi. i., 

 fig. 22). This is a rare American species, usually fossil. The striaj are very 

 hard to resolve. Some of the varieties of this diatom, suggest an af&nity to 

 iV. rhomboides ; but not sufficiently marked to warrant notice. 



"Navicula Sillimanorum," (Ehr.) An exaggerated variety of this species, I 

 have figured, (pi. ii., fig 8). I have found it only in the Wolfboro mud. The 

 typical form of Ehrenberg, occurs in some of the N. Hampshire deposits. It 

 is a singularly compact and beautiful diatom — more nearly allied to N. 

 nobilis, than to iV. tabellaria — as is shown by the relations of the striae to the 

 marginal line, which according to the rule before mentioned, indicate the in- 

 tensification of a. primary undulate outline. 



Navicula gastrum, (Ehr.)? fig. 17, pi. ii). Rare in the Wolfboro mud. I 

 have not come across it elsewhere. The striation is more or less irregularly 

 punctate around the median nodule, and along the median line, as in N. 

 grannlata. (Bailey). The stria? are radiant — otherwise, it might be set down 

 as a degenerate variety of N. firma. 



" Naviccla placenta," Ehr. fig. 4, pi. ii. — N. apiculata, Greg. (Mic. Jour., vol. 

 iv., pi. i., fig. 13)— iV. rostellum. (Smith). This little species is ventricose or 

 elliptic, with a nipple-like projection, at each apex. It corresponds per- 

 fectly in outline, with Dr. Gregory's figure; but the striation is so peculiar in 

 its arrangement, that I have thought it best to figure the valve. The striae 

 are of two kinds. (1). irarasverse, sharp, radiant, close. (2). obliquely curved 



(* The slides coming from abroad, labeUed " Amician test," are, I believe, prepared from 

 material obtained from this country.) 



1865.] 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



in both directions towards tlie median line, crossing as in Hyalodiscus suhtilis. 

 (Bailey). — coarser than the transverse. These characters are constant in all 

 the specimens I have of this species, from this and other localities. — Wolf- 

 boro, N. H., Duck creek, Del. river. 



Stauromeis. This genus is very abundantly represented, particularly in 

 the Wolfbdro mud. It is common in all post tertiary deposits, and presents 

 a bevFildering looseness of character. 



Ihave long tried to understand the meaning of S. Baileyi, (Ehr.) and its 

 varieties. Some time ago, I came to the conclusion, that the one having the 

 quadrangular shape and terminal inflexion of St. acuta was a sporangial 

 var. of that species; and that the other (Pteroidea) bore the same relation 

 to St. phenicenleron. This belief has recently been shaken, by my finding the 

 latter variety (Pteroidea) in the " Nova Scotia" deposit, with a very strongly 

 marked terminal inflexion, and the other characters of size, striation, and 

 outline, so variable as to compel the conclusion, that they are both inter- 

 changeable varieties of a common species — possibly St. phenicenteron. 



A very interesting study of these forms is afforded, by the Nova Scotia, 

 Blue Hill pond, (Ale.) and, in fact, by nearly all the northern deposits, recent 

 and fossil. 



Stauroneis legumen, (Ehr.) The aberrant variety, (pi. ii., fig. 14), will 

 show the range of outline in this species. Frustules of this shape occur 

 sparingly in the "Wolfboro mud, along with the ordinary form. 



_ Stauroneis amphicephala, (Katz.) This species I notice, to direct atten- 

 tion to the figure of .S. anc^^s in Prof. Smith's '-Synopsis," which, in all re- 

 spects, answers to the description and figure of Kutzing's (Bacillarien, p. 105, 

 pi. 30, fig. 25). <?. amphicephala. S. anceps, (Ehr.), is subcapitate with truncate 

 apices, S. amphicephala, capitate with rounded ends. Very likely, these two 

 species are identical. The mere length or relations of the stauros to the 

 margin not constituting a valid reason for keeping them apart. 



I cannot close what I have to say about Stauroneis and its varieties, without 

 alluding to a stauroneiform tendency which seems to prevail in certain locali- 

 ties. This is marked in the Wolfboro, where seven species of Stauroneis co- 

 exist with a number of stauroneiform varieties of Navicula. 



I now pass on to notice some varieties of — 



HiMANTiDiuM and EoNOTiA. I have before spoken of the prevalence of these 

 genera in the Saco and cotemporary deposits, and likewise of the remarkable 

 subordination of their specific character to the meiamorphic force, as exempli- 

 fied in Himantidiuni pectinale, and H. areas, Eunotia robusta and E. incisa. I now 

 give a few illustrations of the most common of these metamorphic varieties, (pi. 

 ii., fig. 12, 13, etc.) which strongly corroborate the view entertained by the 

 late Prof. W. Smith, of the probable common derivation of many of the known 

 British species of HiMantidium, from two types ; viz. : R. pectinale a,nd. H. arciis. 

 (vide Synopsis, vol. ii., p. 11). 



Of these varieties, pi. ii., fig. 13a, represents a, common sporangial form of 

 Hmiantidium undulatum. It will be seen that the dorsum is already hollowed 

 out as a preliminary step towards another common variety (sporangial) of 

 the same diatom* of which variety I have figured only the extreme and last 



stage, at pi. ii., fig. b. This last, represents quite nearly two conjoined frus- 

 tules of H. undulatum (type), as does the intermediate variety, two of H. 

 pectinale. 



Whether or no these remarkable sporangial frustules ever undergo trans- 



*(Those slides prepared by Mr. Samuels, of Boston, labelled Himantidium undulatum, afford a 

 very fine illustration of this variety, which is abundant in fresh water streams throughout Massa- 

 chusetts) 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



verse division, I am unable to say from actual observation ; but their ap- 

 pearance is certainly suggestive of that phenomenon. I ought to add, that 

 the secondary gibbosities on the ventral aspect of var. 5., are rarely as well 

 marked as shown in the figure (13 b. pi. ii). 



Of EuNOTiA iNCisA, pi. li., fig. 12a., represents an extreme variety. The ex- 

 traordinary attenuation of the valve well illustrates the st/nedroid bias, no- 

 ticeable in the Saco, and, to a lesser degree, in the Wolfboro muds. 



The inflexion peculiar to the terminal portion of the valve in these bacillar 

 varieties of E. incisa, often nearly reaches the dorsum. On the other hand, 

 an opposite variety of U. incisa occurs, which is nearly as broad as long.* 



Eunotia camelusi (fig. 126. pi. ii.) is probably allied to E. incisa. Some of 

 the frustules are long and narrow, with hardly any perceptible iindulation. 

 = Eu. impressa, (Ehr.), occurs sparsely at Wolfboro and Bemis Lake. 



Etnotia bactriana, (Ehr.), (fig. 16, pi. ii.) is quite common. There appears 

 to be considerable range of variation in this species. 



EoNOTU PENTAGLTPHis, (Ehr.), as figured (fig. 4, pi. ii.) is also a changeable 

 form. It is widely distributed in the post-tertiary deposits, and has all the 

 characters of a metamorphic variety of Eu. robusta. 



Odontidium tabellaria, (Smith) = Dimeregramma tabellaria, (Ralfs.) I 

 have retained this name, as that by which this diatom is best known. The 

 two varieties figured in Smith's British Diatomacese, and which may, for 

 convenience, be termed/jrimcrr?/ and secondary, seem to be peculiarly obnoxious 

 to the metamorphic force. Figs. 1 and 2, pi. ii., represent a series of elongated 

 varieties from the Saco river, (Synedroid). Of these, two are specially notice- 

 able, 26, and 2d. The first of these has strong marginal puncta ; (Nitzschoid ?) 

 while the second exemplifies the same suggestive principle of symmetrical 

 variation seen in Himantidium undulatum, fig. 13, var. b. pi. ii. 



The punctate tendency, which is quite exceptional, manifesting itself only 

 on a few frustules, is to a lesser degree observable in Tabellaria, in the same 

 deposit. 



There remain to be considered, one or two forms in these deposits, which 

 are not clearly traceable to any known species. 



(1). Navicula (stauroneiform) n. sp.? (pi. ii. fig. 9). F. V. not ascertained. 

 V. lanceolate, gradually attenuated towards the capitate or sub-capitate ex- 

 tremities. Striae sub-marginal, interrupted for a considerable space oppo- 

 site the central nodule. 



Sab. — Wolfboro. Common. (Fig. 9, pi. ii.) 



This little form I have not named, as it may possibly prove a stauroneiform 

 variety of some known species. This stauroneiform habit is very obvious in 

 the Wolfboro varieties ; as is the synedroid, in the Saco. 



(2). Stauroneis Stodderii, n. sp. (Greenleaf), pi. ii. fig. 6.) F. V. 

 Linear, with slightly rounded ends ; connecting membrane slight and fragile. 

 V. elliptic lanceolate, with more or less produced and slender extremities. 

 Stauros linear, reaching the margin. Strise (longitudinal) parallel, sharp and 

 clear. Variable in number. Strice (transverse), radiant, distinct, about 55 in 

 •001. Length variable. 



Hab. of St. phenicenteron and St. amphicephala. Bemis Lake, Wolfboro, Gor- 

 ham pond. 



This beautiful species was first made known to me by Mr. Stodder, who had 

 it from Mr. R. C. Greenleaf, of Boston, who names it St. Stodderii, in com- 

 pliment to the former observer. He has permitted me to describe it. 



*\Eiinotia nodosa. Var. Himantidium, pectinate? in the BemiH Lake, presents b remarkable 

 variety, analogous to the above in proportions. It is also nearly as broad as long, and slightly 



constricted.) 



1865.] 




14 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The valves which are singularly light and graceful, the linear striation giving 

 the surface much the aspect of a scale of Lepisma, are rarely found united by 

 the connecting membrane. Mr. Greenleaf communicates the following facts, 

 with relation to this diatom; " The longitudinal lines are parallel throughout, 

 gradually fading away, so that they are not seen near the apices ; they are 

 faintly visible with careful illumination and focussing over the stauros ; 

 margin beaded." I have not been able to verify Mr. G.'s observations. It 

 seems to me, that the longitudinal striae are internal^ and underlie the stauros, 

 and that they are traceable up to the apex, in that limited number of parallel 

 striae which the narrow area of the extremity can accommodate. The beaded 

 marginal appearance, is probably due to the effect produced by the inflexion 

 of the striae. Mr. Stodder believes the longitudinal strias to be corrugations 

 of the internal membrane, designed to strengthen the valve. 



The figure (fig. 6, pi. ii.) is not sufficiently elongate for an average speci- 

 men of this species. 



"Tetbacyclus" (abnormal)? (pi. ii., fig. 3a, & b.) F. V., much as in the 

 typical form, (genus) ; filament with a central constriction; frustules small ; 

 septa alternate, equal ; V. deeply constricted in the centre, (not unlike a 

 dumb-bell crystal of oxalate of lime). 



Hab. of Tabellaria and Tetracyclus. Lafayette Mt. Lake. 



This singular form occurs only at the above locality. Being minute and 

 much intermixed with Tabellaria and Odontidium tabellaria, it is apt to be 

 overlooked on a crowded slide. The septa are quite insignificant. They 

 exist at both ends of the valve. This anomalous form suggests a metamorphic 

 variation, mediate between Tabellaria and Tetracyclus, and is a true comprehen- 

 sive type, although less perfect than Surirella intermedia. The relations of the 

 septa, small as they are to the valve, and to each other, are constantly those 

 of Tetracyclus, (never of Tabellaria), though the impressible character of 

 outline, passively yielding to the disturbing force, has wandered far away 

 from the typical pattern of that genus.'* 



I will now, as briefly as possible, sum up the conclusions I have tried to 

 establish in this and the previous paper. After which summary will be 

 found a comparative table of some of these species. 



These are — (1). That the genera Synedra, Nitzschia, Tabellaria, and perhaps, 

 Odontidium and llimantidium, made their first appearance as prevalent forms 

 on this continent, at varying epochs, since the Glacial period. 



(2). That there are epochs, which may be termed /rcws/^ionary, coinciding 

 with the abundant introduction of genera, (as above), marked by a singular 

 relaxation of the laws which govern generic character, {metamorphic force.) 



(3). This metamorphic force while respecting the more fixed and positive 

 generic characters, (essential), usually attacks the more variable and unimpor- 

 tant characters, (i. e. those common to most diatoms), (non-essential), of those 

 genera most nearly allied to the incoming one, giving rise to comprehensive or 

 synthetic forms ; as Surirella intermedia, Sanceps ^c. 



(4). During these epochs, there would also seem to exist a subjective 

 variation in many of the cotemporary genera, whether allied or not to the 

 prevailing one — originating in this objective force — still affecting the non-essen- 

 tial characters, principally form and outline, e. g. objective genera Synedra, 



•(The metamorphic force seems to run riot in this particular locality, (Mt. Lafayette Lake), and 

 nearly all the species appear to participate in this tendency to depart from their normal type. The 

 largest and showiest frustules of the pointed elliptic, which is by far the finest variety of jV. 

 firma, pass down through many intermediate forms into a minute and characterless A", affinis, 

 A", rhomboides ranges from the smallest apiculate, up to the magnificent var. b. (pi. ii., fig. 11), 

 curious and anomalous varieties of Tabellaria, of Odontidium tabellaria, some punctate, others 

 {^nedroid, eccentric varieties of Synedra he.micyclus, of Eunntia incisa, Jlu. camelus, Eu. ptntagly- 

 phit, Eu. robusta, of llimantidium gractle, concurring with the abnormal Actinella punctata, 

 SarireUa intermedia, and S. delicatistima, altogether form a grouping confused and incohereot 

 beyond precedent) 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



15 



Nitzschia ; subjective genera, Surirella, Jlimantidium, Odontidium, Tabellaria, 

 Eunotia, and resultant varieties. (PI. ii., figs. 1, 2, 12, 13). 



(5). An extreme variation, not special in its direction towards any type or 

 genus, extending to the valvular outline of many altogether distinct genera, 

 characterizes these metamorphic epochs ; manifesting itself in disposition to 

 assume an undulate, apiculate or crenulate contour, or to lose these characters, 

 e. g. Eunotia incif^a, Himantidium, Navicula serians, iV. firma ; or in irregular, 

 abnormal or unsymmetrical forms, due probably, to unequal or spasmodic 

 action of the metamorphic force, e. g. Actinella, Tetracyclus, (fig. 3, pi. ii.) 



(6). These so-formed varieties, where based upon changes of generic char- 

 acter, or where abnormal or unsymmetrical, are always short-lived; on the 

 other hand, varieties not involving generic character, often become fixed and 

 permanent, as Navicula firma, (var. iridis, amphigomphus, <5'C.) N. serians, var. 

 /?., N. rhomboides. 



(7). That it is not improbable, that many species not reputed distinct, are 

 capable of conjugating with each other ; and that peculiarities of outline and 

 striation constitute but uncertain data for division of species. 



Table of Species. 

 % 



(*) Indicates the presence of species at the locality. 



Localities where the " intermediate 

 type'' species occur. 



u o =*i 



Surirella Baileyi * 



" intermedia * 



" anceps 



" delicatissima. 

 Actinella punctata 



1865.] 




16 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Species illustrating irregular variation uot 

 in any special direction. 



Navicula serians 



" •' var. a .. 



" " var. b... 



" firma and van, 



" " var. a 



" " var. b 



Stauroneis Baihyi and var 



Eunotia incisa, (ordinary var.). 



" pentaglyphis 



" bactriana 



Tetracyclus ? (abnormal) 



Navicula Sillimanorum 



*Surirella decora 



* > 



73 >■ 



I add a list of the ordinary grouping of species in these localities. This is 

 necessarily incomplete and liable to error, owing to the fact that in some of 

 these muds, within the immediate influence of mountain streiims, as parts of 

 the Saco spring — the Flume — Bethel — there is a large dilution with more modern 

 forms. These I have excluded and placed in a list by themselves. The 

 absence of these species in the still pond localities of the White Mountains, is, 

 I think, sufficient evidence of their extraneous habitat, when found along with 

 the grouping below. 



Cymbella cuspidata, C. helvetica, Epithemia ventricosa, E. argiis, Eunotia robusta, 

 Eu. incisa, Surirella nobilis, S. oblonga, S. decora, Navicula firma, N. serians, N. 

 rhomboides, N. major, N. tabellaria, N. viridis, N. acrospheria, N. radiosa, N. 

 mesolepta, N. borealis, N. Staureiformis, N. elliptica, N. cuspidata, Stauroneis 

 phenicenteron, St. gracilis, St. Baileyi, St. anceps, St. legumen, Cocconema lanceolatum, 

 0. cymbifonne, Gompho7iema coronatum, G. turgidum, (var. G. capitatum) ? 

 Gomphonema, (var. G. acuminatum), Himantidium arcus, R. pectinale, Odontidium 

 tabeilaria, Fragillaria, (doubtful?) — Achnanthidium? Tetracyclus lacustris,{T&vt). 

 Biatoma elongatum, (rare), Tabeilaria vulgaris and vars. Orthosira orichalcea, 

 Cocconeis Thivaitesii, (rare), Nitzschia spectabilis, (rare), Synedra ulna, (rare); 

 Navicular AmpMpr or a navicularis, (Ehr.)? (common in sub-peat and peat), 

 Navicula scutelloides, (rare). 



The following are, probably, extraneous species : — Odontidium mesodon, 0. 

 mutabile. Meridian circulare, Cocconeis placentula, Synedra radiant, Nitzckia am- 

 phiozys, N. tenuis, Pleurosigma Spencerii, Gomphonema capitatum, G. geminatum, 

 Aalerionella formosa, Colletonema vulgare. 



Denticula and Amphiprora are not represented in any of these deposits, 

 unless by one or two doubtful forms, one of which is figured in (pi. i., fig. 6), 

 Amp. ornata, the only fresh water species, is not common so far north. 



*(I have omitted to notice an abnormal variety of Surirella decora t in 'the Wolfboro mnd. 

 This is ovate; the median line extending far little more than one half the length of the valve, 

 leaving an equal open area at either end. From the extremities of the median line, the faint 

 costje branch out with a beautifully radiant arrangement, appearing as if they all arose from th« 

 game point. I have found this form also at Montmorency Falls, Canada.) 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



I had intended, in the present communication, to give a r^snm^ of species 

 contained in the "blue clay" of the Delaware river alluvium, and in adjacent 

 localities along the river. This last I shall be obliged to defer ; but as 

 several of the figures published in my last paper were designed to illustrate it, 

 T will briefly describe them. 



"Amphora intermedia," n. sp. ? (pi. i., 7 a, b and c). F. V. linear elliptic. 

 or elliptic ; margin of the inflected portion of the valve recurved, resembling a 

 small ala , marginal pnncta distinct, V. arcuate, with rounded apices finely 

 striated. 



Hab. — Atlantic, N. J., rare. 



This delicate and beautiful species, belongs to the complex Amphorm of Dr. 

 Gregory. Its outline and appearance on the F. V. are suggestive oi Ampki- 

 prora, from which genus, however, the absence of the terminal nodules and 

 its valvular outline remove it. The few specimens I have found, do not en- 

 able me to judge accurately as to its average length or striation. 



Navicula — n. sp. ? (pi, i., fig. 8) V. rhomboid, with cuneate slightly pro- 

 duced extremities, striae radiant, moniliform. 



The only specimen I have of this diatom, is a detached valve, from which 

 the figure (pi. i., fig. 8), is taken. 



Hab. — Blue clay, Kaighn's point, Del. river. 



Amphiprora PULCHRA,var. /?. A. conspiam (Greville)? (pi. i., fig. 10, a and b). 

 I am not sure, whether this fine diatom is identical with that figured in the 

 Mic. Journal as A. conspicua. (Trans. Mic. Soc, vol. ix., pi. 10, fig. 16). 



My figure, which is carefully drawn from a elide of Rockaway mud, differs 

 certainly from that of the Mic. Journal. The frustules are always twisted, as 

 shown in fig. 10a, pi. i., and the elongated nodules have much the look of 

 canaliculi. Its habit is that of .,4. pulckra, of which species I have thought it 

 a variety. It rarely attains half the size of that species; occurs sparingly in 

 many brackish and marine localities. 



Mastoqloia elegans, n. sp. (pi. i., fig. 9). F. V. as shown at pi. ii., fig. 16. 

 V. large, lanceolate, elliptic ; extremities sometimes a little produced ; loculi 

 numerous ; very minute ; marginal ; striae sharp, clear, parallel ; about 36 a 40 

 in •001''''. Median nodule laterally produced into a fine point. Habit and 

 growth of M. apiculata, of which species it may be a permanent variety. I 

 have not, however, been able to trace the connection. 



It occurs along with M. angulata, and the above, at Atlantic, N. J., Cape 

 May, (Schellinger's Inlet), and as a pure gathering ; abundant. 



Mastogloia kinsmanii, n. sp. (pi. ii., fig. 15 « and b.) F. V. as shown at 

 fig. 186. V. lanceolate or elliptic, with more or less produced ends ; loculi 

 less numerous than in 31. apiculata or M. elegans ; the central 4 or 5, larger 

 than the others ; (this is a constant character). 



Median line with a narrow blank space on either side, connivent at the 

 apices; sirice sharp, radiant, about 40 in -001. Habit and growth of the pre. 

 ceding. 



Hab. — Cape May, Cold spring, Atlantic marshes. 



Not an uncommon species at the above localities. The frustule is quite 

 thick, and of a dark, chocolate, brown color, when dry. This somewhat 

 doubtful species I have named (provisionally) after my friend Mr. Kinsman, of 

 this city, who first directed my attention to it, and to whom I am under great 

 obligations for aid in mounting and preserving specimens, and for many 

 valuable hints in their study. 



There remain to be noticed, two very similar Naviculae, having strong 

 &fS.mtie3 Yfiih N. Lewisiana, {Grev.) One of them (pi. ii., fig. 19.) frequently 

 occurs along with it, and is probably, an early stage of that diatom ; and the 



1865.] 2 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



other, (pi. ii., fig. 20,) is a not uncommon coastal species. Both are brackish. 

 For convenience of reference, I have provisionally named these forms, whose 

 claims to rank as distinct species are very questionable : 



(1.) Navicula incomperta, (pi. ii.. fig. 20.) — V. lanceolate elliptic, with a 

 thick double median line; terminal nodules inconspicuous; transverse itrim 

 parallel; about 70 in -001^^; longiludinal striie wavy, faint, about 55 to 60. in 

 •001. Cape May, Atlantic, and Rockaway Salt marshes, common. 



(2.) Naticula interposita, (pi. ii.jfig. 19.) — V. elliptic, elongated, shorter than 

 in the preceding ; terminal nodules usually inconspicuous. Transverse striae 

 sharp, parallel, about 50 a 55 in -001^^. Longitudinal, straight, parallel, about 45 

 a 50 in -001. Paraiba Harbor, S. A. ; Wilmington R., Savannah, Ga. — C. 

 Febiger. 



The front view of both these species is linear, or sometimes slightly con- 

 stricted, with abruptly rounded ends, to which the suddenly inflected terminal 

 nodule gives an emarginate appearance, as is sometimes seen in N. rhomboides. 



Iq N. Lewisiana, on the other hand, the front view is commonly a little infla- 

 ted, and the terminal curves much more gradual. The straight and long ter- 

 minal nodule of this last species, subtends the arc formed by this curve, 

 whence, probably, arises a good deal of that apparent inflation of the " extra 

 median" lines, spoken of by Dr. Greville. (Trans. Mic. Soc, vol. xi. N. S. p. 16.) 



The variation iu size, form and number of striae is very considerable in all 

 of these species from different localities, and for the reason this measures I 

 have given above are only approximate. 



As opportunity offers, I hope to continue the notice of the Delaware river, 

 and adjacent coastal diatoms. 



Plate II. 



Fig. (1.) Odontidium tabellaria. — Sporangial varieties of primary form, (a), 



ordinary form, /? and y, elongated frustules. 

 (2.) Odontidium tabellaria. — Sporangial varieties of secondary foTtn. (6), punc- 

 tate variety of, c. elongated form, d. double sporangial frusiule. 

 (3.) Telracyclus? (abnormal)— a. V. b. F. V. 

 (4.) Eunotia pentaglyphis, (Ehr.) 



(5.) Navicula serians, a. (apiculate') , b. (cruciform) \ &netj =^N. follia. 

 (6.) Stauroneis Stodderii, n. sp. (Greenleaf). 

 (7.) Navicula placenta, Ehr. 

 (8.) Navicula SiUimanorum, Ehr. 

 (9.) Navicula {Stauroneiform,) n. sp. ? 

 (10.) Navicula rhomboides. Sporangial var. b. 

 (11.) Navicula rhomboides, Sporangial var. a. 

 (12.) Eunotia incisa. (a) extreme variety, (Synedroid), 6. Biundulate variety 



= Eu. camelus. 

 (13.) Himantidium undulatum. Sporangial, var. a and b. 

 (14.) Stauroneis legunien, Ehr. 

 (15.) Mastogloia Kinsmanii, n. sp. a. V. b. F. V. 

 (16.) Mastoglia elegans, n. sp. F. V. 

 (17.) Navicula gastrum, Ehr. 

 (18.) Eunotia bactriana, 'Ehr. 

 (19.) Navicula interposita, n. sp. 

 (20.) Navicula incomperta, n. sp. 

 (15.) Navicula carassius, Ehr. 



These figures are all magnified 500 diameters. The representations of striae 

 are only designed to give a general idea of their direction and character, not of 

 cumber, actual or comparative. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 19 



Synonymy of the Species of STREPOMATID^, a Family of Fluviatile MoUusca 



inhabiting North America. 



Part 4. 



BY GEORGE W. TRTON, JR. 



The first, second and third parts of this paper* included all the species then 

 known to science, except a peculiar group, of about sixty species of Gonio- 

 basis, inhabiting principally the Coosa River, Alabama. The species of this 

 group are distinguished from others of the genus by their heavy, bulbous or 

 cylindrical, or pupaeform shapes, and their very short spires. I was not sat- 

 isfied that they belonged to the genus Goniohasis, and therefore reserved them 

 for further study. 



Mr. Lea has since eliminated from this group principally, his excellent ge- 

 nus Eiirycmlon, which Still leaves most of the species, however, in Goniobasis. 

 Finding that I am still unable to make a satisfactory separation, I have con- 

 cluded to finish the synonymy, treating these shells as Goniohases. 



I avail myself of this opportunity to publish those additions and corrections 

 in the synonymy of the first three parts, which the kind assistance of my 

 friends, and particularly of Mr. Lea, together with my own investigations 

 have enabled me to make. 



Including the species of the present paper, my Catalogue now embraces 

 about five hundred species and three hundred synonymsf. 



10, Lea. 

 1. L fl uvialis, Say. 

 lo fluviatilis, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p. 299. Brot, Malaco Blatt. ii. p. 



114, July, 1860. 

 lofusiformis, Lea, Chenu, Man. Conchyl. i. f. 1977. 

 lofusiformis, Say, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 

 Jo tenebrosa, Lea, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p. 299. Troschel, Archiv fur 

 Naturgesch. ii. p. 130, 1843. 



3. L sp i nos a. Lea. 



lo spinosa, Lea, Chenu, Man. de Conchyl. i. f. 1973. Morcb, Yoldi, Cat. p. 

 56. Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



PLEUROCERA, Raf, 



1. P. al veare, Con. 



Melania alveare, Conr., Miiller, Synopsis, p. 46, 1836. 

 Megara alveare, Con., Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 

 Megara torquata, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 

 Jo pernodosa, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



2. P. For em an i, Lea. 



Gyrotoma Foremani, Lea, ? Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 



3. P. undulatum, Say. 



Melania undulata, Say, Brot, Mai. Blatt. ii. p. 106, July, 1860. 

 Megara undulata, Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 



4. P. ex cur at um, Conrad. 



Melania excurata, Conr., Miiller, Synopsis, p. 43, 1836. 



•Proceedings Acad. Nat. Sciences, Nov, 1863, p. 306; Feb., 1864, p. 24; April, 1864, p. 92. 

 fThe species, published by Mr. Lea in the Proceedings of the Academy for 1864, are not all in- 

 cluded in this paper, as the short diagnoses do not allow me to place them in a iiatisfactory manner. 

 As soon aa the full descriptions and figures are published in our Journal, I will indioate their 

 liroper places in this list, 



1865.] 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



6. P. nobile, Lea. 

 lo nobilis, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



8. P. canaliculatum, Say. 



lo canaliculata, Say, Morch, Yoldi, Cat. p. 56. 



Ceriphasia canaliculata, Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 297. 



Melania conica, Say, Sowerby, MoUusca, Fauna Boreali Ameiicana, iii. p. 



316, 1836. 

 Gyrotoma conica, Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 

 Melania Sayi, Deshayes, Encyc. Meth. Vers. ii. p. 427, 1830. 



9. P. filum. Lea. 



Elimiafilum, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



11. P. oli vaceum. Lea. 

 This species should follow No. 21. 



16a. P. tri vittatum. Lea.* 

 Synonymy, Part 1st, No. 79. 



17a. P. fast igia tu m, Anthony. 

 Synonymy, Part 1st, No. 44. 



28. P. unci ale, Haldeman. 



P. unciale, Hald., Synonymy, Part 1st, No. 67. 

 P. hicostatum and rigidum, Anth., ibid. No. 28. 

 P. sugillatum, Pveeve, ibid. No. 68. 

 G. oblita, Lea, Synonymy, Part 2, No. 126. 



29. P. subulare, Lea. 



Ceriphasia subularis, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 297. 



29a. P. i n t e n s u m, Anthony. 

 Melania intensa, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. sp. 371. Brot, List, p. 30. 



33. P. a n n u 1 i f e r u m, Conrad. 



Melania anmdifera, Conr., Miiller, Synopsis, p. 44. 

 Ceriphasia annulifera, Conr., Adams' Genera i. p. 297. 

 Ceriphasia Ordiana, Lea, ibid. p. 297. 



38. P. e 1 e V a t u m. Say. 



Elimia elcvata. Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



Ceriphasia elongata. Lea, ibid. p. 297, not Ceriph, clevata, Say, of Chenu, 

 Man. i. f. 1961. 



40. P. ar a turn. Lea. 



Ceriphasia exarata, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 297. 



44. P. f a sti gia turn, Anthony. 

 Should be No. 17a. 



49. P. pyrenellum, Conrad. 



Melania pyrenella, Conrad, Miiller, Synopsis, p. 45. 



51. P. regular e, Lea. 



Ceriphasia regularis, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 297. 



55. P. labiatum. Lea. 



55a. P. pallidum, Lea.f 



57. P. vest itum, Conrad. t 



* Perhaps = Thomtonii. 



t After a thorough examination of the specimens of Idbiaium, and pallidum, I incline to the be- 

 lief that they are distinct. 

 X G. spiiialis, Lea, may be identical with this species. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Melania vestita, Conrad, Miiller, Synopsis, p. 47. 



57a. P. lugubre. Lea. 



Melania lugubris, Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 166, August, 1845, Philos. Trans. 

 X. p. 58, t. 9, f. 29. Obs. iv. p. 58, Binney, Check List, No, 164. 

 Brot, List, p. 31. 

 Goniobasis spurca, Lea, Synopsis, Part 2d, No. 177. 

 Ceriphasia spurca, Lea, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p, 297. 



58a. P, pic turn. Lea. 



Melania picta, Lea, Plailos. Proc. ii. p. 82, Oct., 1841. Philos. Trans, ix. p, 



19. Obs. iv. p. 19. Wheatley, Cat. Shells, U. S. p. 26. Binney, Check 



List, No. 205. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 290, 

 Melania picturata, Reeve,* Errata to Monog, Melania. Brot, List, p. 38, 



63a. P. Ocoeense, Lea. 



Goniobasis Ocoeensis, Lea, Synonymy, Part 2d, No. 181. 



67. P. unci ale, Haldeman. 

 Synonymy, Part 1st, = No. 28. 



68. P. sugillatum. Reeve, 

 Synonymy, Part 1st, = No. 28. 



76. P. curvatum, Lea. 



Gyrotoma curvata, Say, ? Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 



79. P. trivitt atum. Lea. 



Synonymy, Part 1st, = No. 16a. 



83. P. opaca, Anthony. 



G. opaca, iostoma and nigrostoma, Anthony, Synonymy, Part 2d, No. 119. 

 P. Tenness^ense, Lea, Synonymy, Part 1st, No. 83, 



ANGITREMA, Haldeman, 



1. A, geniculata, Haldeman. 



Lithasia genicula, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 



2. A. s a 1 e b ro s a, Conrad. 



Melania sahhrosa, Conrad, Miiller, Synopsis, p. 44. 

 Lithasia salebrosa, Conrad, Adams' Genera i. p, 308. 



5. A. Jay an a. Lea. 

 lo Jayana, Lea, Brot, Mai. Blatt. ii. p. 115, July, 1860, 

 lo robulina, Anthony, Chenu, Manuel de Conchyl. i. f. 1976. Adams' Ge- 

 nera i, p, 299, 



7. A. armigera. Say. 



lo armigera, Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



8. A. Duttoniana, Lea, 



To Duttoniana, Lea, Chenu, Man, de Conchyl, i, f. 1974. Adams' Genera 

 i. p. 299. 



9. A. stygi a, Say. 



lo tuberculata, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



11. A, lima, Conrad. 



Melania lima, Conr, Miiller, Synopsis, p. 46. 

 Megara lima, Conr., Adams' Genera i. p, 306. 



12. A. verrucosa, Rafinesque. 



Potadoma depygis, Say, Chenu, Manuel de Conchyl. i. f. 1970. 

 Lithasia semigranulosa, Deshayes, Adams' Genera i, p. 308, 



* Ab a Pleurocera, the name of picta is not preoccupied. 



1864.] 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



LITHASIA, Haldeman. 



1. L. f ul igino s a, Lea. 



Leptoxis fuliginosa, Lea, Adams' Genera i, p. 307. 



2. L. Fl orentiana, Lea. 



lo Florentiana, Lea, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



9. L. n u c 1 e 1 a, Anthony. 

 L. obliqua, Anthony, Synonymy, Part 1st, No. 14, 



11. L. obovata, Say. 



Lithasia ohoraia, Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 

 Leptoxis Hildrefhiana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



14. L. obliqua, Anthony. 



Synonymy, Part 1st, = L. nudeola, Anthony, No. 9. 



STREPHOBASIS, Lea. 



1. S. curta, Haldeman. 



Megara solida, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 



2. S. p u m i 1 a, Lea. 



Megara pumila, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 



8. S. bit a en i at a, Conrad. 

 Melania bitesniaia, Conrad, Miiller, Synopsis, p. 45. 



GONIOBASIS, Lea. 



2. G. g r a t i s a, Lea. 



2a. G. lachryma, Anthony. 



Both= EUETC^LON. 



3. G. gibberosa. Lea. 



=EDRYCiEL0N. 



4. G. n u b i 1 a. Lea. 



=Ecetc.i:lon. 



6. G. H y d e i i, Conrad. 

 Melania Hydeii, Conrad, Miiller, Synopsis, p. 44. 



8. G. c a e 1 a t u r a, Conrad. 



8a. G. Stewardsoniana, Lea.* 



8b. G. liavescens, Lea.f 



Goniobasis flavescens, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, p. 271, 1862 — Journal 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 339, t. 38, f. 202, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 161. 



10. G. catenaria, Say. 



Elimia catenaria, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



11. G. c a t e n i d e s, Lea. 



Elimia catenoides, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



14. G. B o y k i n i a n a. Lea. 



Elimia Boykiniana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



Juga Troostiana, Lea., Chenu, Man. de Conchyl. i. f. 2017. 



22. G. carinifera, Lamarck. 



Elimia bella, Conrad, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



*Differ8 from G. cfdatura in color, being dark green. It is also a more inflated species, with 

 shorter spire. 

 fNearly allied to adatura, but ia narrower, more cylindical and lighter in color. 



[Jan 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



22a. Gr. abbreviata, Anthony. 



Melania abbreviata, Anth., Bost. Proc, iii. p. 360, Dec, 1850. Binney, 



Check List, No. 433. Reeve, Monog. Melauia, sp. 424. 

 Melania elegantula, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye, vi. p. 103, t. 3, f. 2, Mar., 



1854. Binney, Check List, No. 96. Brot. List, p. 32. Reeve, Monog. 



Melania sp. 346. 

 Melania coroniUa, Anth., Ann. Lye, N. H., New York, vi. p. 126, t. 3, f. 27, 



Mar., 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 69. Brot. List, p. 32, Reeve, 



Monog. Meh, sp. 418. 

 Melania chalyhaa, Anth., Brot. List, p. 37. 



226. G. vesicula. Lea. 

 Synonymy, Part. 2, No. 41. 



25. &. s u b sjt r i c t a, Haldeman. 



Synonymy^ Part 2=No. 31. G. obtusa, Lea. 



28. G. carinocostata. Lea. 



Elimia carinocostata, Lea, Adams' Genera, i. p. 300. 



28a. G. strenua. Lea. 

 G. Leidyana, Lea. 

 G. carinocostata, Lea, Synonymy, Part 2. 



286. G. perstriata. Lea. 

 Synonymy, Part 2, No. 73. 



29. G. Lecontiana, Lea. 



Melasma Lecontiana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



30. G. c adus. Lea. 



Synonymy, Part 2=G. obtusa. Lea, No. 31. 



31. G. obtusa, Lea. 



G. substricta, Haldeman, Synonymy, Part 2, No. 25. 

 G. cad us, Lea, Synonymy, Part 2, No. 30. 



34. G. Chris tyi, Lea, is a Synonym of No. 37. 



37. G. in terrupta, Haldeman. 



G. Christyi, Lea. G. instabilis. Lea, Synonymy, Part 2, No. 34. 

 G. ornatella. Lea, is a Synonym, of No. 39. 



39. G. form OS a, Conrad. 



G. ornatella, Lea, Synonymy, Part 2, No. 37. 



41. G. vesicula, Lea. 

 See No. 22, h. 



43. G. laqueta. Say. 



Melasma laqueata, Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



47. G. gracilis. Lea. 



Potadoma gracilis. Lea, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



53. G. bland a, Lea. 



Melasma blanda, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



54. G. nit ens, Lea. 



Melasma nitens. Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



55. G. mutata, Brot.* 

 59. G. Curreyana, Lea. 



Melasma Curreyana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



*Much rosemblua G. dijfficilis, Lea, No. 81. 



1865.] 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



61. G. Deshayesiana, Lea. 



Melasma plicatula, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 

 Melasma Deshayesiana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



69a. G. L i n d s 1 e y i,* Lea. 

 Syn. of dislocata, Rav., Part 2, Synonymy, No. 69. 



72. G. n a s s u 1 a, Conrad. 



Melania nassula, Conr., Muller, Synopsis, p. 46. 

 G. Edgariana, Lea, Synonymy, Pait 2, No. 77. 

 Melasma Edgariana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



75. G. costulata. Lea. 

 Melasma costulata, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



77. G. Edgariana, Lea. 

 Vide, No. 72. 



78. G. caliginos a, Lea. 



Elima caliginosa. Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



79. G. n d u 1 o s a, Lea. 



Elimia nodulosa, Lea, Adams' Genera, No. 300. 



80. G. glauca, Anthony. 



^ 6r. athleta, Anthony, No. 86. 



84. G. c a n c e 1 1 a t a, Say. 



Elimia cancdlata, Say, Adams' Genera i. No. 84. 



85. G. circincta. Lea. 



Juga circincta, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 294. 



86. G. a t h 1 e t a, Anthony. 



G. glauca, Anthony, Synonymy, Part 2, No. 80. 



88. G. stria tula. Lea. 

 Juga striata. Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 304. 



91. G. c r e b i c o s t a t a, Lea. 



Melasma crebricostata, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



92. G. c m m a, Conrad. 



Melania comma, Conr., Muller, Synopsis, p. 45. 

 Melasma comma, Conr., Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



93. G. acuta. Lea. 



Ceripha^ia acuta, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 297. 



94. G. subcylindracea. Lea. 



Potadoma subcylindracea, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



96. G. concinna. Lea. 

 Melasma concinna, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



103. G. p licif era, Lea. 



Melania plicifera, Lea, Troschel, Archiv far Naturgesch. ii. p. 227. 

 Melasma plicifera, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



104. G. s i 1 i c u 1 a, Gould. 



Juga silicula, Gould, Adams' Genera i. p. 304. 



108. G. trochiformis, Conrad. 



Melania trochiformis, Conr., Muller, Synopsis, p. 47- 



* The aperture is differently shaped from dislocata. The plicae are also more crowded, and 

 decussated by one or two lines under the suturts. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Ilia. G. expansa, Lea.* 



118. G. plebeius, Anthony. 

 =G. sordida, Lea, No. 186. 



119. G. opaca, Anthony. 



= Pleurocera opaca, Anthony, No. 83. 



123. G. m d e s t a, Lea.f 



124. G. pagodiformis, Anthony. 

 = G. acutocarinata, Lea, No. 127. 



125. G. Gerhard tii, Lea.t 



126. G. obi it a, Lea. 



=Pleurocera unciale, Hald., Synonymy, Part 1, No. 28. 



127. G. acutocarinata, Lea. 



G. pagodiformis, Anthony. G. iorulosa, Anth., No. 124. 

 Elimia acutocarinata, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



129. G. Catawbaea, Haldeman. 



Goniobasis Cataiobcea, Hald., Amer. Jour. Conch. voL 1, No. 1, 

 Feb. 25, 1865. 



132. G. s y mm e tri c a, Haldeman. 

 Ceriphasia symmetrica, Hald. Adams' Genera i. p. 297. 



138. G. congest a, Conrad. 



Melania congesta, Conr., Miiller, Synopsis, p. 43. 



139. G. auriculae formis. Lea. 



Megara auriculceformis, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 



140. G. Nickliniana, Lea. 



Leptoxis Nickliniana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



143. G. ebenum, Lea.§ 

 Nitocris ebena, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 

 Melania brunnea, Anth.= G. sordida. Lea, No. 186. 



148. G. graminea, Haldeman. 



Goniobasis graminea, Hald., American Journ. Conch, i. No. 1. Feb. 25, 1865. 



1 50. G. V a n u X e m i i, Lea. 



Changed to G. Prestoniana, Proo. Acad., 1864, p. 3, Vanuxemii being 

 preoccupied. 

 = G. simplex. Say, No. 157. 



153. G. a b r u p t a, Lea. 



Leptoxis abrupta, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



154. G. depygis, Say. 



Potadoma depygis, Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 298. 



155. G. li ve s c en s, Menke. 



Potadoma Niagarensis, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



157. G. simplex. Say. 



G. subsolidu, Lea, No. 186, cxcl. synonyms. 



*Very closely allied to, or perhapa^ff. Whitei, No. 111. 

 tPerhaps^^i'/ewroCTra higubris. Lea. 

 JThis id probably the same as G. semigrarlata. No. 27. 



JMr. Lea agrees with me ia con^iilering this spftcie.^ distinct from iostoma, Anth.; and also in 

 making brunnea a synonym ol sordida instead of e6enMTO. 



1865.] 




26 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



G- Vanuxemii, Lea, No. 150. 



Pachycheilus simplex, Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 298. 



Potadoma Warderiana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 299 , Chenu, Manuel, i. f. 

 1972. 



158. G. Potosiensis, Lea. 

 Elimia Potosiensis, Lea, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



160a. G. virens, Anthony.* 

 Syn. of G. Saffordi. Synonymy, Part 2d, No. 160. 



167. G. cinerea, Lea.f 



170. G. translucens, Anthony. 



Goniohasis translucens, Anthony, Am. Journ. Conch, i., Feb. 25, 1865. 



171. G. ovoidea, Lea. 



Potadoma ovoideus, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



173. G. quadricincta, Lea. 



Goniobasis quadricincta, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Apr. 1864, p. 112. 



177. G. s pur ca, Lea. 

 = Pleurocera, No. 57a. 



181. G. Ocoeensis, Lea. 

 Potadoma Ocoeensis, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 299. = Pleurocera, No. 63a. 



184. G. Estabrookii, Lea. 

 = G. dubiosa. 



186. G. subsolida, Lea. 



= G. simplex. Say, No. 157. 



Potadoma subsolida. Lea, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



186a. G. sordida. Lea. 



Potadoma sordida, Lea, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 

 G. plebeia, Anth., Synonymy, Part 2d, No. 118. 

 G. brunnea, Anth., Synonymy, Part 2d, No. 143. 



187. G. clava ef ormi s, Lea. 



Melasma clavaeformis. Lea, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



191. G. adust a, Anthony. 



G. Cumberlandiensis, Lea, Synonymy, Part 2d, No. 189. 

 G. funebralis, Anthony, Synonymy, Part 2d, No. 190. 



193. G. dubiosa. Lea, 



G. Estabrookii, Lea, Synonymy, Part 2d, No. 184. 



194. G. laevigata. Lea . 



Potadoma loevigata, Lea, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



195. G. interlineata, Anthony. 



Goniobasis interlineata, Anthony, Am. Jour. Conch, vol. i., Feb. 25, 1865. 



196. G. Ohiensis, Lea.J 



197. G. brevispira, Anthony. 



Melasma brevispira, Anth., Adams' Genera i. p. 300. 



* Appears to be distinct from G. Saffordi. The shell is less solid, the aperature is not exactly of 

 the same form, and the c olor is lighter and more brilliant. 



fMost liliely the locality giyen for this species is incorrect. It is probably identical with pufcAeHa, 

 Anthony. 



j Probably = G. semicarinata. Say. Xo. 193. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 27 



198. Gr. semicarinata, Say. 



Jug a ex His, Hald., Adams' Genera i. p. 304. 

 Ceriphasia Kirtlandiana, Adams' Genera i. p. 297. 

 Potadoma inornatics, Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



199. G. Hald em an i, Tryon. 



Goniobasis Haldemani, Tryon, Am. Journ. Conch, i., Feb. 25, 1865. 



203. G. Alexandr ensis, Lea.* 



Ceriphasia Alexandrensis, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 297. 



204. G. Haleiana, Lea. 



Ceriphasia Haleiana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 297. 



208. G. proxima. Say. 



Juga proxima. Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 304. 



208a. G. rufescens, Lea.f 



Potadoma rufescens, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 299. 



209. G. Virginica, GmeL 



Buccinum Virginica, GmeL Syst. Nat. p. 3505. Schroter, Einleit. i. p. 414, 

 1783. Martini, Berlin Mag. iv. p. 348, t. 10, f. 48. Schreibers, Ein- 

 leit. Conchyl. t. 113, f. 7. 



Melania Virginica, Say, Villa., Cat. Syst. p. 36, 1841. 



lo Virginica, Say, Morch, Yoldi Cat. p. 56. 



Ceriphasia Virginica, Gmel., Adams' Genera i. p. 297. 



Juga Virginica, Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 304. 



Juga midtilineata, Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 304. 



210. G. Sulcosa, Lea. 



Ceriphasia sulcosa, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 297. 



211. G. Buddii, Lea. 



Juga Buddii, Say, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p. 304. 



212. G. Tr o s t iana. Lea. 



Melania Troostiana, Lea, Troschel, Archiv fur Naturgesch. ii. p. 227. 

 Juga Troostiana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 304. 



J, Heavy, pupcpform or cylindrical species. 



217. G. cylindracea, Conrad. 



Melania cylindracea, Con., New Fresh-Water Shells, p. 55, t. 8, f. 10, 1834. 

 Miiller, Synopsis, p. 47, 1836. Binney, Check List, No. 84. 



Melania cylindrica. Con., Wheatley, Cat. Shells, U. S., p. 25. Reeve, Mo- 

 nog. Melania, sp. 311. Brot, List, p. 32. 



Melania oppugnata, Lea, Philos. Trans, x. p. 300, t. 30, f. 9. Observations, 

 V. p. 56. Binney, Check List, No. 190. 



218. G. pnpoidea, Anthony. t 



Melania pupoidea, Anthony, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vi. p. 104, t. 3, f. 



3, April, 1854. Brot, List, p. 33. Binney, Check List, No. 224. Reeve, 



Monog. Melania, sp. 249. 

 Melania propinqua. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 119, 1861. 

 Goniobasis propinqua. Lea, Journ. Acad, Nat. Sci., v, pt. 3, p. 234, t. 34, f. 



29, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 56. 



* May be a Pleurocera. 



t This 18 ale nger and narrower species than G.proOTWia, the color is also darker. 



i Without the large series of specimens before me, I should have acquiesced in the institution oi 

 projnnqua as a distinct Species: but 1 find every gra.ie of form between the two. Ihe shorter 

 forms approach closely to oUvula, Con., with which they have been confjunded. Ihey are dis- 

 tinguished by difference in color, and principally of texture, oUvula being much hoaTier. 



1865.] 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



219. G. lita, Lea.* 



Melamia lita. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1861, p. 121. 

 Goniohasis lita, Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 239, t. 34, f. 40, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 61. 



220. G, fall ax, Lea. 



Melania fallax, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1861, p. 120. 

 Goniohasis fallax, Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 231, t. 34, f. 24, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 53. 



221. G. inosculata, Lea.f 



Goniohasis inosculata, Lea, Proc. Acad Nat. Sci. p. 263, 1862. Journ. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 296, t. 37, f. 126, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 118. 



222. G. Alabamensis, Lea. 



Melania Alahamensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1861, p. 121. 

 Goniohasis Alahamensis, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 232, t. 34, f. 

 26, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 54. 



223. G. rara. Lea. 



Melania rara. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 121, 1861. 

 Goniohasis rara, Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 220, t. 34, f. 3, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 42. 



224. G. pnnicea, Lea. t 



Melania punicea, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 119, 1861. 

 Goniohasis punicea. Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3. p. 232, t. 34, f. 27, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 54. 



225. G. pndi ca. Lea. 



Melania pudica, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 222, t. 34, f. 7, Mar. 

 1863. Obs. ix. 



226. G. fabalis. Lea. 



Goniohasis fahahs. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 266, 1862. Journ. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 311, t. 37, f. 154, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 133. 



227. G. Shelbjensis, Lea § 



Melania Shelbyensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 121, 1861. 

 Goniohasis Shelhyensis, Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 228, t. 34, f. 

 18, March, iS63. Obs. ix. p. 50. 



228. G. f u m e a. Lea. 



Melania furnea, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1861, p. 123. 

 Goniohasis fumea, Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 222, t. 34, f. 6, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 44. 



229. G, aequa. Lea. 



Melania ctqua. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1861, p. 122. 



Goniohasis cegua, Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 240, t. 34, f. 41. 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 62. 



230. G. s o 1 i d u 1 a. Lea. 



Melania solidula. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1861, p. 121. 

 Goniohasis solidula. Lea, Journ, Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 230, t. 34, f. 23. 

 Obs. ix. p. 52. 



*I doubt whether this is distinct from G. Haysiana. In all the specimena I have examined, the 

 aperture is white within, instead of purple as described by Mr. Lea, 



tThe whorls are nmre convex and brighter in color than G. faUax. This species is constantly 

 ornamented by four dark bands. 



I Very closely allied to piidica, if not identical with that species. 



i Differs from pudica in the form of the aperture, the whorls are also flatter, 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 29 



231. G. olivula, Conrad. 



Melania olivula, Con., Am. Journ. Science, 1st Series, xxv. p. 342, t. 1, f. 



13, Jan., 1834. MuUer, Synopsis, p. 42, 1836. Wheatlej, Cat. Shells, 



U. S., 26. DeKay, Moll. New York, p. 98. Jay, Cat. Shells, 4th Edit. 



p. 274. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 455.* Bianey, Check List, No. 



188. Brot, List, p. 33. Hanley, Conch. Miscellany, t. 1, f. 2. 

 Megara olivula, Con., Chenu, Manuel, i. f. 2027. Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 

 Melania olivata, Con., Jay, Cat. 3d Edit. p. 45. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. 



p. 188. 

 Melania propria, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1861, p. 123. f 

 Goniobasis lepida, Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sciences, v. pt. 3, p. 227, t. 34, f. 



17, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 49. 



232. Gr. fascinans. Lea. 



Melania fascinans, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, p. 119, 1861. 

 Goniobasis fascinans, Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 229, t. 34. f. 

 20, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 51. 



233. G. Showalterii, Lea. 



Melania Showalterii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1861, p. 120. 

 Goniobasis Showalterii, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 220, t. 34, f. 

 4. Obs. ix. p. 42. 



234. G. clausa. Lea. 



Melania clausa. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1861, p. 120. 

 Goniobasis clausa, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 231, t. 34, f. 25, 

 March, 1863, Obs. ix. p. 53. 



2.35. G. crepera, Lea. 



Melania crepera, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1861, p. 123. 

 Goniobasis crepera, Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 240, t. 34, f. 42, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 62. 



236. G. a b s c i d a, Anthony. 



Melania abscida, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1860, p. 56. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 435. Brot, List, p. 32. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 



395. 



237. G. Vanuxemiana, Lea. 



Melania Vanuxemiana, Lea, Proc. Philos. Soc. ii. p. 242, Dec, 1842. Philos. 



Trans, ix. p. 25, Obs. ix. p. 25. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 453. 



Brot, List, p. 33. 

 Melania Vanuxemensia, Lea, Wheatley, Cat. Shells, U. S., p. 27. Binney, 



Check List, No. 283. 

 Megara Vanuxemiana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 



238. G. Coosaensis, Lea,| 



Melania Cuosaensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1861, p. 118. 

 Goniobasis Coosaensis, Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sciences, v. pt. 3, p. 234, t. 34, 

 f. 30. March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 56. 



238. G. rubicund a, Lea. 

 Melania rubicunda. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1861, p. 118. 

 Goniobasis rubicunda. Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p, 235 t. 34, f. 

 32, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 57. 



240. G. H a y s i a n a. Lea. 

 Melania Haysiana, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 242, Dec, 1842. Philos. Trans, 



* Reeve figures for this shell also sp. 309, but the figure does not represent the species, 

 t Prenccupiud. Showalterii and fasnnans are also probably synonyms of olivula. 

 X Differs from G. Haysiana in the form of the apertnre. 



1865.] 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ix. p. 25. Obs. iv. p. 25. Wheatley, Cat. Shells, U. S., p. 25. Jay, 

 Cat. Shells, 4th Edit. p. 273. Binney, Check List, No. 137. Brot, 

 List, p. 32. Brot, Mai. Blatt. ii. p. 108, July, I860.* Reeve, Monog. 

 Melania, sp. 310. Hanley, Conch. Miscel. Melania, t. 1, f. 6. 

 Megara Haysiana, Lea, Chenu, Manuel, i. f. 1981. Adams' General, p. 

 306. 



241. Gr. arctata. Lea. 



Melania arctata, Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 166. Philos. Trans, x. p. 64, t. 9. 

 f. 46. Obs. iv. p. 64. Binney, Check List, No. 20. Brot, List, p. 32. 

 Megara arctata, Lea, Chenu, Manuel, i. f. 2024. Adams' Genera i. f. 306. 



242. G. a m p 1 a, Anthony. 



Melania ampla, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lyceum, vi. p. 93, t. 2, f. 12, 1854. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 13. Brot, List, p. 39. Reeve, Monog. Mela- 

 nia, sp. 312. 



Melania Hartmaniana, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1861. 



Goniohasis Uartmanii, Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 218, t. 34, f. 

 1, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 40. 



243. G. m 6 1 1 e a, Lea. 



Melania mellea, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1861, p. 120. 

 Goniohasis mellea, Lea, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. v.'pt. 3, p. 224, t. 34, f. 10, 

 1863. Obs. ix. p. 46. 



244. G. am b u s t a, Anthony. 



Melania amhmta, Anthony, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 94, t. 2, f. 13, 1854. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 12. Brot, List, p. 39. Reeve, Monog. Mela- 

 nia, sp. 352. 



245. G. laeta. Jay. 



Melania laeta. Jay, Cat. Shells, 3d Edit. p. 122, t. 7, f. 11, 1839. Jay, Cat. 

 Shells, 4th Edit. p. 274. Wheatley, Cat. Shells, U. S., p. 26. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 156. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 187. Brot, List, p. 

 32. 



Melania robusta. Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 83, October, 1841. Philos. Trans, 

 ix. p. 19. Obs. iv. p. 19. Wheatley, Cat. Shells, U. S., p. 26. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 231. 



Melatoma Buddii, Lea,t Reeve, Monog. Melatoma, sp. 3. 



Melania tamiolata,t Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1860, p. 59. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 263. Brot, List, p. 31. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 

 sp. 392. 



246. G. harp a. Lea. 



Melania harpa. Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 166, August, 1845. Philos. Trans. 



X. p. 64, t. 9, f. 45. Obs. iv. p. 64. Binney, Check List, No. 136. 



Brot, List, p. 32. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 313, 314. 

 Megara harpa, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 



Melania textilosa, Anthony, § Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 101, t. 2, f. 20, 1854. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 270. Brot, List, p. 40. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 

 sp. 391. 



247. G. oliva, Lea.|r 



* Dr. Brot considers arctata, robusta, brevis and basalis synonyms. 



t It is curioas that Mr. Reeve has figured and described this shell for the SchitosUrma (MtUOoma^) 

 Buddii. Lea. 



X Half grown shell. It presents a very different appearance from the adult. 



3 Half grown shell. 



il This shell i» narrower than G. laeta,, resembling harpa in form ; but the aperture is wider and 

 more rounded below. It is yery closely allied to G. excavata, — which is a smooth species, however. 



[Jim. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



Melania oliva, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 242, 1842. Phitos. Trans., ix. p. 27. 



Obs. iv. p. 127. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. Binney, Check List, 



No. 187. Brot, List, p. 33. 

 Megara oliva, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 



248. G. pro tens. Lea. 



Melania proteus, Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 166, 1845. Philos. Trans., x. p. 

 57, t. 9, f. 28. Obs. iv. p. 57. Binney, Check List, No. 219. Brot, List, p. 33. 

 Juga proteus, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 304. 



249. G. grisea, Anthony. 



Melania grisea, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1860, p. 61. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melania, sp. 390. Brot, List, p. 32. 



250. G. culta, Lea. 



Melania culta, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, p. 121, 1861. 



Goniohasis cvlta, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. p. 13, p. 237, t. 34, f. 36. 



Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 59. 

 Melania suavis,^ Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 169, 1861. 

 GoTiiobasis suavis, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v.pt. 3, p. 228 t. 34, f. 19. 



Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 50, 



251. G. luteola. Lea. 



Melania luteola, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 119, 1861. 



Goniohasis luteola, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 230, t. 34, f. 22, 



Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 52. 

 Melania straminea,-\ Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1861, p. 121. 

 Goniohasis straininea. Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 227, t. 34, f. 



16, Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 49. 



252. G. gravida, Anthony. 



Melania gravida, Anth., Proc. Acad- Nat. Sci. p. 59, Feb., 1860. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melania. Brot, List. 



253. G. g e r m a n a, Anthony. 



Melania germana, Anth., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 61, Feb., 1860. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 120. Brot, List, p. 40. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 383. 



254. G. V a r i a t a. Lea. 



Melania variata, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 119, 1861. 

 Goniohasis variata, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 224, t. 34, f. 11, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 46. 



255. G. oval is. Lea. 



Melania oralis, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 242, Dec. 1842. Philos. Trans, ix. 

 p. 25. Obs. ix. p. 25. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S. p. 26. Binney, Check 

 List, No. 192. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 448 and sp. 309.$ 



Megara ovalis, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 



Melania copiosa, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 122, 1861. 



Goniohasis copiosa, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 239, t. 34, f. 39. 



Obs. ix. p. 61. 

 Melania orbicula, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 118, 1861. 

 Goniohasis orhicula. Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 2.S8, t. 34, f. 37, 



March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 60. 



256. G. vi rgulata, Lea. 



Melania virgulata,\ Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 119, 1861. 



1864.] 



* Young dhell, 

 ■fYoung ghell. 

 X Figured as oJitmJa, CoDr, tut name corrected in Krr»t«. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Goniobasis virgulata, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 223, t. 34, f. 9, 



March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 45. 

 Melania glandaria* Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 120, 1861. 

 Goniobasis glandaria, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 226, t. 34, f. 14, 



March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 48. 



257. G. cl a r a, Anthony. 



Melania clara, Anth., Ann. N. Y. Lye, vi. p. 119, t. 3, f. 19, March, 1854. 

 Binnej, Check List, No. 55. Brot, List, p. 32. 



258. G. in flat a, Haldeman.f 



Melania inflata, Hald., Cover of No. 3, Monog. Limniades, March, 1841. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 146. Brot, List, p. 40. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 

 sp. 410. 



259. G. f u sif or m is, Lea. t 



Melania fusi for mis, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 12, Feb., 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii. p. 167, t. 5, f. 9. Obs. iii. p. 5. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 93. Troost. 

 Cat. Shells Tenn. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 25. Binney, Check 

 List, No. 117. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 186. Brot, List, p. 40. 



260. G. bellula, Lea. 



Melania bell ula, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 122, 1861. 

 Goniobasis bellula, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 237, t. 34, f. 35, 

 Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 59. 



261. G. calculoides, Lea. 



Melania calculoides, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 118, 1861. 

 Goniobasis calculoides, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 238, t. 34, f. 

 38, Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 60. 



262. G. has a lis, Lea,§ 



Melania basalis. Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 166. Philos. Trans., x. p. 59, t. 



9, f. 33. Obs. iv. p. 59. Binney, Check List, No. 28. Brot, List, p. 



32. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 471. 

 Anculotis basalis, Lea, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 5. f. 40. 

 Megara basalis, Lea, Adams' Genera i, p. 306. 



263. G. Lewisii, Lea. 



Melania Leivisii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 118, 1861. 

 Goniobasis Lewisii, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 243, t. 35, f. 46, 

 Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 65. 



264. G. ellipsoid e s, Lea. 



Melania gracilior, Lea,|| Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1861, p. 118. 

 Goniobasis ellipsoides, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 234, t. 34, f. 

 31, Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 56. 



265 . G. elliptic a, Lea. 



Melania elliptica. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 118, 1861. 

 Goniobasis elliptica, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 225, t. 34, f. 13, 

 Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 47. 



266. G. bullula, Lea. 



Melania bullula. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 121, 1861. 



* This is the young, and glandaria the adult Bhell of the same species.' 



t Differs from G. virgulata by its obtusely angled whorls and somewhat diamond-shaped aper- 

 ture. 



JMuch like G. ambusta, when young, but more inflated, and the aperture more obtusely rounded 

 below. 



I Resembles glandaria, but is thinner, the outer lip is more expanded, and the aperture rather 

 larger. It is closely allied also to fusi/ormis, Lea. 



jl Preoccupied. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 33 



Goniohasis bullula, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 221, Mar., 1863. 

 Obs. ix. p. 43, t. 34, f. 5. 



267. Gr. excavata, Anthony.* 



Melania excavata, Anthony, Ann. Lye. N. Y., vi. p. 99, t. 2, f. 18, Mar., 

 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 102. Brot, List, p. 32. Reeve, Monog. 

 Melania, sp. 385. 



268. G. purpurea. Lea. 



Melania purpurea, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 120. 



Goniohasis purpurea, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 225, t. 34, f. 12, 

 Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 47. 



269. G. quadrivittata, Lea. 



Melania quadrivittata. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1861, p. 119. 

 Goniohasis quadrivittata, Lea. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 226, Mar., 

 1863. Obs. ix. p. 48. 



270. G. propria, Lea. 



Melania propria, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 118, 1861. 

 Goniohasis propria, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 229, t. 34, f. 21, 

 Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 52. 



271. G. n eg at a, Lea. 



Goniohasis negata. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 271, 1862. Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 337, t. 38, f. 200, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 159. 



272. G. i m p r e s s a, Lea. 



3Ielania impressa, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 83, Oct. 1841. Philos. Trans , ix. 



p. 19. Obs. iv. p. 19. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 25. Jay, Cat. 



Shells, p. 274. Binney, Check List, No. 143. Brot, List, p. 32. Reeve, 



Monog. Melania, sp. 316, 349. Hanley, Cooch. Miscel. Melania, t. 8, f. 69, 

 Megara impressa, Lea, Chenu, Manuel i. f. 2023, Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 

 Melania crebrisiriata, Lea,f Philos. Proc. iv. p. 166. Philos. Trans., x. p. 65, 



t. 9, f. 47. Obs. iv p. 65. Binney, Check List, No. 75. Catlow, Conch. 



Noinenc, p. 186. Brot, List, p. 32. 

 Megara rrebristriata, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 306. 



273. G. pergrata, Lea. J 



Melania pergrala, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 122, 1861. 

 Goniohasis pcrgrata, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 243, Mar., 1863. 

 Obs. ix. p. 65. 



274. G. c a p i 1 1 a r i s, Lea. 



Melania capillaris, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 122, 1861. 

 Goniohasis capillaris, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 236, t. 34, f. 34, 

 Mar., 1803. Obs. ix. p. 58. 



EURYC-^LON, Lea. 

 Eurycxlon, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 3, Jan., 1864. 



1. E. u m b o n a t a, Lea. 



Goniohasis umhonata. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 3, 1864. 



2. E. M i d a s, Lea. 



Melania Midas, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 119, 1861. 



Goniohasis Midas, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 233, t. 34, f. 28, 

 Mar., 1803. Obs. ix. p. 55. 



3. E. g r a t i OS a. Lea. 



Goniohasis graliosa, Lea, Synonymy, Part 2, No. 2. 



*Mr. AnthoDy'8 type specimen exhibits unmistikRble evidence of diseaseil growth. 



fThe difference in the niimber of striae pointed out l)y Mr. Lea, is not a good distinctive cbarae- 

 ter; tbey vary much in number on undoubted apecimens ofimprtssa. 6. crebrittriata \a n»t full 

 grown. 



%l fear thi» is only a variety of impres$a. 



1865.] 3 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



3a. E. lachryma, Anthony. 

 Goniobasis lachryma, Anthony, Syn., Part 2, No. 2j. 



4. E. g i b b e r o sa, Lea. 



Goniobasis ffibberosa, Lea, Syn., Part 2, No. 3. 



5. E. n u b i la, Lea. 



Goniobasis nubila, Lea, Syn., Part 2, No. 4. 



e. E. An the n y i, Budd. 



Anculosa Anthoni/i, Budd., Syn., Part 3, No. 1. 



7. E. c r a 8 s a, Haldetnan. 



Anculosa crassa, Hald., Syn., Part 3, No. 15. 

 Leptoxis crassa, Hald., Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 

 Anculosa pisum,* Hald., Syn., Part 3, No. 19. ^ 

 Leptoxis pisum, Hald., Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



8. E. t n r b i n a t a, Lea. 



Anculosa Utrbinata, Lea, Syn., Part 3, No. 33. 



MESESCHIZA, Lea. 

 Meseschiza, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 2, Jan., 1864. 

 1. M. Grosvenorii, Lea. 

 Meseschiza Grosvenorii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 2, .Tan. 18G4. 



SCHIZOSTOMA, Lea. 



3. S. o V o i d eu m, Shuttleworth. 



Gyrotoma ovoidea, Sbult., Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 



4. S. exci s u m, Lea. 



Gi/rotcma excisa, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 



7. S. 1 ac i n iat um, Lea. 



Gyrotoma laciniala, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 

 10. S. cy 1 in d raceum, Mighels. 



Gyrotoma cylindracea, Migh., Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 

 12. S. cu r turn, Mighels. 



Gyrotoma curta, Migh., Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 

 15. S. p ago d a. Lea. 



Gyrotoma pagoda, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 

 ] fi. S p y r a m i d a t u m, Shuttleworth. 



Gyrotoma pyramidatum, Shutt., Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 

 2Q. S. b a b y 1 o n i c u m, Lt a. 



Gyrotoma'babylonictm, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 



Gyrotoma funiculata, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 

 .23. S. c o n s t r i c t u ni, Lea. 



Gyrotoma comtricta. Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 305. 



26. S. in cisu ra, Lea. 



Gyrotoma incisa, Lta, Ada ma' Gentra i. p. 305. 



ANCULOSA, Say. 

 1. A. An t ho n y i, Budd. 



= Eurycxlon. 

 2 A.plicala, Conrad. 



Anculolus plicaius, Conrad, Miiller, Syaopsis, p. 40, 183G. 



Leptoxis phcai a, Conrad, Adamo' Genera i. p. 3u7. 

 ^. A. 1 i t, t o r i n a, Haldeman. 



Melania pilula, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



♦Young shell. 



[JaD. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



6. A. c s t a t a, Anthony. 



Nitocris cosiata, Lea, H. and A. Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 

 Nitocris occidenlalis , Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 



"7. A. r u b i g i n o s a, Lea. 



Anculosa rubiginosa, Lea, Brot, MaL Blatt., ii. p. Ill, July, 1840. 

 Leptoxis rubiffinosa, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 

 Leptozis Griffilhiana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



8. A. c a r i n a t a, Brug.* 



A. dissimilis. Say, Synopsis, Part 3. 



Bulimus carinatus, Brug., Ency. Meth., vers. i. p. 301, 1792. 



Nitocris dissimilis, Say, Adams' General, p. 308. 



Leptoxis dissimilis, Say, Chenu, Manuel, i. f. 2049 — 54. 



—Lister t. Ill, f. 5 a"nd t. 112, f. G. Petiver, Gazophyl, t. 104, f. 67. 



Nitocris carinata, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 



Leptoxis variabilis, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



Anculolus nigrescens, Conrad, Miiller, Synopsis, p. 36, 1836. 



Leptoxis nigrescens, Conrad, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



Leptoxis trivittata, DeKay, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



Anculotus monodontoides , Conrad, Miiller, Sj'nopsis, p. 41, 1836. 



Nitocris monodontoides, Conrad, Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 



Nitocris dentata. Couth., Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 



9. A. d i 1 a t a t a, Conrad. 



Nitocris dilatata, Conrad, Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 



Leptoxis dilatatus, Conrad, Chenu, Manuel, i. f. 2043 — 5. 



Nitocris Rogersii, Conrad, Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 



Nitocris Kirtlandianus, Anthony, Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 



Nitocris inflatus. Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 



Melania itiflata, Lea, Troschel, Archiv fur Naturgesch. ii. p. 226. 



11. A. raelanoides, Conrad. 

 Nitocris melanoides, Conrad, Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 

 Anculotus melanoides, Courad, Miiller, Synopsis, p. 42, 1836. 

 L'^ptoxis turgidd, Hald., Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 

 Leptoxis viridis, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 



13. A. s u b g 1 o b s a. Say. 



Leptoxis subglobosa, Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 

 Leptoxu gibhosa. Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 

 Leptoxis globula, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 

 Leptoxis tintinnabulum. Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 

 Leptoxis virgata, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



14. A. praerosa, Say. 



Anculosa prferosa, Say, Synonymy, Part 3. 



Leptoxis prwTosa, Say, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. Morch, Yoldi, Gat., p. 56. 



Lithvsia meritiformis, Desh., Adams' Genera i. p. 308. 



Anculolus angulatxts, Conrad, Miiller, Synopsis, p. 40, 1836. 



Leptoxis angulata, Conrad, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



15. A. c r a 8 s a, Haldeman. 

 = Eurycielon. 



A.pisum, Hald., Synonymy, Part 3, No. 19. 

 Leptoxis pisum, Hald., Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



16. A. t a e n i a t a, Conrad. 



Anculotus tseniatus, Conrad, Miiller, Synopsis, p. 41, 1836. 

 Leptoxis lieniata, Conrad, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



1865.] 



*Ha8 27 years priority over diutmtiw. 




36 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



17. A. T r s t i a n a, Lea. 



Leptozis Troostiana, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 

 25. A. p ic ta, Conrad. 



Anculosa picta, Conrad, Miiller, Synopsis, p. 39, 1836. 



Leptozis picta, Conrad, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



Leptozis flammata, Conrad, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



28. A. s q u a 1 i d a, Lea, 



Leptozis squalida, Lea, Adams' Genera i. p. 307. 



29. A. p a t u 1 a, Anthony. 

 =dilatata, Conrad.? 



30. A. V i r i d u 1 a, Anthony. 

 =dilalata, Conrad.? 



33. A. tnrbinata, Lea. 

 =EuTyccelon. 



Pursuant to the By-Laws, an election of members of the Standing 

 Committees for 1865 was held, as follows : 



ETHNOLOGY. 

 J. A. Meigs, 

 S. S. Haldeman, 

 I. I. Hayes. 



COMP. AN AT. AND GEN. ZOOLOGY. 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 J, M. Corse, 

 J. H. Slack. 



MAMMALOGY. 

 J. H. Slack, 

 J. L. Le Conte, 



W. S. W. RUSCHENBERGER. 



ORNITHOLOGY. 

 John Cassin, 

 J. H. Slack, 

 B. A. HooPES. 



EERPETOLOGY ^ ICHTHYOLOGY. 

 E. I). Cope, 

 R. Bridges, 

 Th. Norris. 



CONCHOLOGY. 

 T. A. Conrad, 



W. G. BiNNEY, 



G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



ENTOMOL OGY AND CR USTA CEA. 

 R. Bridges, 

 E. T. Cresson, 

 J. F. Knight. 



BOTANY. 



E. DURAND, 



Joseph Carson, 

 Aubrey H. Smith. 



GEOLOGY. 

 Isaac Lea, 

 Charles E. Smith, 

 J. P. Lesley. 



MINERALOGY. 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 

 J. C. Trautwine, 

 T. D. Rand. 



PAL^ ONTOL OGY. 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 T. A. Conrad, 

 J. L. Le Conte. 



PHYSICS. 

 B. Howard Rand, 

 Wm. M. Uhler, 

 R. E. Rogers. 



LIBRARY. 

 Joseph Jeanes, 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 John Cassin. 



PROCEEDINGS. 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 Thomas Stewardson, 

 Robert Bridges. 



• [Jaa. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



February Wth. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 

 Seven members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication and referred to a 

 Committee : 



" Descriptions of new species of Birds of the Families Paridae, Yire- 

 onidae," &c. By Geo. N. Lawrence. 



The Committee ou Proceedings placed on the table the published 

 •number for November and December, 1864. 



Fehruary 2\st. 

 Vi-ce-President, Cassin, in the Chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



Fehruary 'ZSth. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 

 Twelve members present. 



On report of the Committee, the following paper was ordered to be 

 published : 



Descriptions of new species of BIRDS of the Families PAEIDiE, VIREONID.I;, 

 TYEANNIDJE and TROCHILIDiE, with a note on Myiarchas Panamensis. 



BY GEO. N. LAWRENCE. 



1. POLIOPTILA PLUMBICEPS . 



Male. Entire crown and occiput dark plambeous, bordered oneacbi side by 

 a black line which begins at the bill, running to and over the eye, and as far 

 beyond as the dark cap extends ; upper plumage dark, bluish grey ; outer 

 tail feather white, the next white except one third of the inner web at the 

 base, where it is black, the third feather black with the end white for -5_ of 

 an inch, the other tail feathers are glossy black ; primaries blackish brown, 

 secondaries black, broadly margined with white ; under wing coverts white ; 

 sides of the head, lower eyelid, chia and abdomen white; throat, breast and 

 sides bluish grey, lightest on the throat ; bill black ; tarsi and toes plumbeons 

 black. 



First primary half the length of the second, the fourth longest, tail much 

 graduated. Length 4 J in. ; wing 1 15 ; tail 1 y| ; bill ^^ tarsi |. 



Habitat. — Venezuela Collected by Mr. S. C. Nash. 



Prof. Baird in "Review of American Birds," p. 07, (now in course of publi- 

 cation) has given a synopsis of the genus Polioptila, which he has divided into 

 three sections, as follows : 



1. Whole top of head black. 



2. Sides of head black ; top gray. 



3. Top of head gray ; sides whitish. 



The species now described cannot be placed in either of these, but will form 

 the foundation of a fourth section, having the entire crown dark plumbeous. 



The color of the back and wing coverts comes nearest to that of P. laicogas- 

 ter, but is of a lighter shade ; below it is rather more plumbeous, and the 

 tail feathers are much narrower than in that species. 



2. HyLOPHILUS ACUTICAUnCS. 



Head above and hind neck olive brown ; back greenish olive, brownish on 

 the upper part, and gradually becoming brighter green on the rump ; tail dull 



1865.] 




o8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



greenisli olive, the shafts brown, the outer two feathers narrowly margined 

 on their inner webs with pale yellow ; quills dark umber brown, edged with 

 olive green ; sides of the head, throat and upper part of the breast dull ful- 

 vous ash ; breast and abdomen pale fulvous ; sides olive green ; under lining 

 of wings, inner edges of quills and under tail coverts pale yellow ; upper 

 mandible light hazel brown, the under whitish ; tarsi and toes pale yellowish 

 brown. 



The first primary is | of an inch long, or about half the length of the fourth, 

 which is the longest ; the tail feathers are relatively long, quite narrow and 

 pointed at their ends ; bill rather short. Length 4^ in.; wing 2 ; tail 1 1; 

 bill i ; tarsi i i . 



° ' lb 



Habitat. — Venezuela. Collected by S. C. Nash. 



In its narrow pointed tail feathers it appears to differ from all others that 

 I have seen. 



3. Myiaechus veneztelensis. 



Plumage above of a dark olivaceous brown, darker on the crown ; tail dark 

 umber brown, the outer feather with the outer web dull white, tinged with 

 brownish next the shaft ; the other tail feathers have a narrow edging of bright 

 rufous on their outer webs, the extreme ends of all dull white ; quill feathers 

 dark umber brown, the primaries with a very narrow margining of pale 

 rufous, the secondaries and tertiaries edged with white ; the wing coverts 

 dark brown with margins of soiled white ; under wing coverts pale yellow, 

 inner edges of quills pale huffy white ; throat, upper part and sides of breast 

 bluish grey, sides under the wings slightly olivaceous ; abdomen and under 

 tail coverts very pale y-llow, a little brighter only in the middle of the former ; 

 bill and feet black. Fourth quill slightly the longest, first and ninth equal. 

 Length 7| in. ; wing d^ ; tail 3| ; bill 11 ; tarsi g-. 



Hnbitat. — Venezuela. Collected by S. C. Nash. 



This species is closely related to my M. Panamensis ; it is a little smaller, 

 darker and more brown above, and the yellow of the under parts paler ; it 

 differs also in the bright rufous margins on the tail feathers, in the whiter 

 edges of the wing coverts and smaller quill feathers, and in having the feet 

 black ; it is likewise more grey on the breast. 



Note. The typical specimen of M. Panamensis was not in very good con- 

 dition, the feathers of the wings and tail being somewhat worn ; since descri- 

 bing it I have received specimens in perfect plumage, which enable me to note 

 some differences as follows : the color of the back is olive green ; the throat 

 is of a lighter grey than in the type, and the sides of the breast are olive 

 green ; the edges of the tail feathers are dull olive with a slight sandy tinge 

 at the base, in the type from their worn and rusty appearance I described 

 them as edged with pale rufous, this edging, however, is slight and not at all 

 of marked character ; the outer web of the lateral feather is pale ashy brown ; 

 the bill is dark brown, lighter underneath ; the tarsi, though at first sight 

 appearing black, have a tinge of dark reddish or vinous color : this I find to 

 be their color also in the type. These differences are probably owing to the 

 season when killed. 



The irides are stated by Mr. Galbraith to be brown. The sexes are alike in 

 plumage. 



4. Chalybura .^neicauda. 



Mde. Plumage above and below shining dark green, the head, throat and 

 neck of a golden tinge, deepening to reddish orange on the front, chin and 

 throat ; upper tail coverts reddish or coppery bronze ; two middle tail feath- 

 ers coppery bronze (not so bright as the tail coverts), the other tail feathers 

 deep steel blue, all except the outer one margined with the same bronze color 

 as the central ones, decreasing in extent from the central feathers ; wings 

 brownish purple ; under tail coverts white ; bill black ; feet blackish brown, 

 the toes underneath pale yellow. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



Length 5 in. ; wing 213; tail 1^ ; bill 1. 

 Habitat. — Venezuela. Collected by S. C. Nasb. 



This species is of the same size as C. Buffoni, which it also most resembles, 

 it differs from it in the golden hue of the front and throat, and in the decidedly 

 bronzed tai], the bronzing on the tail of Buffoni being very slight, and is just 

 perceptible on the ede;es of some of the feathers. 



C. iirochriisea, Grould, has the "tail rich golden bronze both above and 

 beneath," and the " lower mandible fleshy red," whereas in my species the 

 upper surface of the tail only is bronzed, and the bill is wholly black. 

 5. Chalybuka Carxioli. 



Male. Upper plumage dark green with a tinge of golden on the wing cov- 

 erts and lower part of the back ; upper tail coverts dark violet purple, the 

 tail has both the upper and under surface bronzed violet purple, li.>;hter in 

 color than the coverts ; wings brownish purple ; throat of a shining deep 

 green ; breast and abdomen dull green ; under tail coverts dull violet purple : 

 upper mandible black, under yellow with the tip black ; tarsi and toes yellow. 

 Length 5 in. ; wing 2^ ; tail 1| ; bill ^. 



The female differs in having the middle of the throat, the lower part of the 

 abdomen and the under tail coverts dull ash ; the outer three tail feathers 

 marked at their ends with pale ash, most so on the outer feather. 



Habitat. — Costa Rica, Angostura. In museum of the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion. 



This species appears to be somewhat like C. Ismme in the coloring of the 

 tail, but differs remarkably from that species as well as from all others of the 

 genus, in having its under tail coverts of a dark color, instead of pure white. 

 I have named it in compliment to Mr. Julian Carniol whose large collections 

 sent to the Smithsonian Institution (containing many new species besides thi?) 

 give evidence of his energy and industry as an explorer. 

 6. Panychlora parvirostkis. 



Female. Upper plumage of a rather light grass groen with a golden tinge : 

 upper tail coverts and central feathers golden bronze, much deeper in color 

 on the coverts ; the other tail feathers are white at their bases for more than 

 half their length, succeeded by a broad band of brownish black and ending in 

 white, the outer feather being most largely tipped with white ; under surface 

 pale ashy grey ; under tail coverts white ; bill black ; toes blackish brown, 

 underneath pale yellow. 



Length 3 in. ; wing:l|; tail|; bilU- 



Habitat.— Costa, Rica, Angostura. 'Collected by J. Carniol. Museum of 

 Smithsonian Institution. 



The bill is strikingly small compared with that of P. AUcirv, although in 

 their other measurements they are much alike ; it also differs from the female 

 of that species in the upper tail coverts being golden orange instead of purf* 

 green, and in the bases of the tail feathers being white instead of green. The 

 male will, without doubt, be found to possess the glittering green plumage of 

 its allies. 



March 7th. 

 Vice-President Cassin in the Chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



March I4(h. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 

 Twenty members present. 

 1865.] 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Special Meeting, March \Qth. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Twenty- one members present. 



The President announced the death of Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, aged 

 59 years, at Newark, Del., on the 15th inst., at 71 o'clock, A. M., of 

 typhus fever. A Committee having been appointed to draught a series 

 of resolutions in reference to the sad event, the following were pre- 

 sented and adopted : 



TT7ierea.«, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia having sustained 

 a most serious loss in the death of its late distinguished President, Thomas B. 

 Wilson, M. D., 



Resolved, That our late fellow member. Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, is eminently 

 entitled to be regarded as the most judicious and liberal patron of the zoolo- 

 gical sciences that our country has yet produced, and that we have heard his 

 death announced with sentiments of the most profound sorrow. 



Resolved, That in his great abilities and vast scientific acquirements, as well 

 as in all the relations of private life, we recognize in Dr. Wilson the character 

 of a true man of genius, a thorough, earnest and most conscientious cultivator 

 and friend of the sciences, and a most valuable and patriotic citizen. 



Resolved, That in the infancy of the study of the natural sciences in the 

 United States, the gratuitous and ready aid afforded by Dr. Wilson con- 

 tributed largely to that development of those sciences which now places this 

 Academy in rank with similar institutions of the old world. 



Resolved, That the liberality of Dr. Wilson to this Academy, and the large 

 facilities thereby provided for study and research, do fully entitle bim to the 

 unqualified gratitude, not only of our members, but of all students of the 

 natural sciences in this country, and that we are justified in regarding, and 

 we sincerely recommend our successors as members of this Academy to regard, 

 his munificent and unparalleled contributions to our library, and especially 

 to our museum, (nearly the whole of which, in several departments, we owe 

 to his liberality), as an honorable and perpetual monument to his zeal in 

 behalf of the natural sciences. 



Resolved, That a copy of these resolntions be presented to each of the bro- 

 thers and sisters of Dr. Wilson, and that they be published in the public 

 journals of this city and in the scientific journals of the United States. 



On resolution of the Academy, the President appointed Mr. Cassin 

 to prepare a memoir of Dr. Wilson, to be published in the Proceed- 

 ings : 



On motion, it was resolved to adjourn to meet in the Hall of the 

 Academy on Saturday, 18th inst., at 2^ o'clock, P. M., to attend the 

 funeral of Dr. Wilson. 



[Mar. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



March ISth. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight members present. 



This meetiug having been held for the purpose of attending the 

 funeral of our hite lamented and distinguished member, Dr. Thomas 

 B. Wilson, it was immediately adjourned for that purpose. 



March 2lst. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled " Notice of some new 

 types of Organic Remains from the Coal iNIeasures of Illinois." By 

 F. B. Meek and A. H. Worthen. 



March 2Sth. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Fifteen members present. 



On the report of the Committee, the following paper was ordered to 

 be published : 



Notice of some New Types of Organic Bemains, from the Coal Measures of 



Illinois. 



BY F. B. MEEK AND A. H. WORTHEN. 



The fossils described in this paper were discovered at a locality on the 

 south side of the Illinois River, at Morris, Grundy County, Illinois, near the 

 northern boundary of the Coal Measures of that State. This locality is al- 

 ready well known from the numerous beautiful specimens of fossil ferns it has 

 afforded, as well as from the discovery there of a remarkable extinct Neurop- 

 terous Insect, described by Prof. Dana in vol. xxxvi. 2d ser. p. 34, Am. Journ. 

 &ci. The bed from which all these interesting fossils were obtained, holds 

 a position near the base of the Illinois Coal Measures, somewhat above the 

 horizon of the second seam of coal. At the out-crop, where these specimens 

 were collected, a thickness of about twenty feet of strata is exposed, consisting 

 of sandy shale, passing downwards into a more argillaceous shale, forming the 

 bed of a small stream ; while a short distance further down this little stream, 

 and at a lower horizon, a thin seam of coal crops out. No workable beds of 

 coal are known in the State north of this Count)', and the Coal Measures here 

 rest directly upon Silurian Rocks. 



The fossils at this locality are immediately enveloped in biscuit-shaped 

 iron-stone nodules. These nodules are not generally composed of concentric 

 layers, but show, on weathered surfaces, a tendency to a laminated structure, 

 the planes of lamination being flat, parallel lo the greater diameter of the con- 

 cretions, and probably also coincident with those of the shale, as they lie in 

 the bed. On breaking open these concretions, the laminated structure is gen- 

 erally found Dot to extend within ; the interior having a homogeneous, rather 

 compact structure, and a grey or brownish grey color, (the iron beicg usu- 



1865.] 




42 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



ally in the condition of a carbonate), while more or less arenaceous and ar- 

 gillaceous matters also enter into their composition. Some of the concre- 

 tions seem to contain no organic remains, but often in breaking open others, a 

 fossil is found to have formed the nucleus around which the concretionary 

 action look place. 



It is an interesting fact that we find here, near the base of the Illinois Coal 

 Measures, a species of the remarkable genus Bellinurus, an intermediate link, 

 (hitherto only known to occur in the lower Coal Measures of England and Ire. 

 laud,) between the older Trilobites, and the existing genus Limulus. In Eng- 

 land it is found enveloped in similar iron-stone nodules, at Cole-Brook-Dale, 

 where three species have been discovered, one of which [B. bellulus, Koenig, 

 = B. rotundatus, Prestwich) is closely related to our Illinois species. 



We likewise find at the Morris locality a species of the genus Anthrapalse- 

 mon, Salter, (or a closely allied type) which in Scotland also occurs in the 

 lower Coal Measures, while neither of these genera are known in the subcar- 

 boniferous, or any lower formation. These facts furnish additional evi- 

 dences, if any were necessary, (coinciding with all the other palaeontological, 

 as well as stratigraphical, evidence) of the fallacy of an opinion recently ex- 

 pressed by a writer in the Bulletin of the Geological Society of France, that 

 our western Coal Measures, and particularly those of Illinois and the adjoin- 

 ing States, belong not to the horizon of the true Coal Measures of Europe, 

 but to the subcarboniferous or mountain limestone series. 



In a paper by one of the writers, published in the March number of the 

 American Journal of Science, 1865, after speaking of the general distribu- 

 tion of marine remains in our western Coal Measures, he remarked (which 

 was strictly in accordance with his observations up to that time) that after 

 more than twenty years familiarity with the fossils of the coal formation of 

 the Western States, he had never seen amongst them any terrestrial or fresh- 

 water types, other than plants. Since investigating the fossils described in 

 this paper, however, amongst which it will be seen there is believed to be a 

 Caterpillar, we can but regard the Morris bed as an exception to this general 

 rule. If the fossil to which we allude is a true Caterpillar, its presence there, 

 along with the insect described by Prof. Dana, would indicate that this bed 

 was probably deposited in an estuary, into which this little worm-like larva, 

 and the other insect, were doubtless carried from the land by an inflowing 

 stream or the ebbing tide. This suggestion also receives some support from 

 the affinities of the associated Crustacea, since the genus Bellmurus, from its 

 relations to the existing genus Limulus, might have been capable of living at 

 least in brackish waters, although the English species are associated with 

 marine forms. The genus Anthrapali£jno7i is also supposed, by Prof. Dana, to 

 have been related to JEglea, a fresh-water type. In addition to these facts, no 

 unquestionable, strictly marine forms of any kind have, so far as we know, 

 been yet found in this bed. 



The existence of this exceptional case (if it is such) of terrestrial and fresh 

 or brackish-water fossils in our western Coal Measures, has no bearing, how- 

 ever, against the general conclusions in connection with which the statement 

 above alluded to was made ; nor even, indeed, against the general accuracy 

 of the statement itself, since the fact of the almost exclusive and general 

 distribution of marine animal remains in our western Coal Measures, stands 

 unshaken. 



The fossils here noticed will be fully illustrated and described, and such 

 additional facts given as we may in the mean time learn from other speci- 

 mens, in the forthcoming report of the Illinois Geological Survey, for the 

 publication of which we are happy to announce the Legislature has made a 

 liberal appropriation. 



We are indebted to Prof. Dana for the use of several specimens of some 

 of the Crustacea described in this paper, as well as for suggestions in regard 

 to their affinities; also to Dr. Stimpson for suggestions respecting the same. 



[Mar. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



We are likewise under obligations to Mr. Joseph Evans, of Morris, Illinois, 

 who first discovered the fossils at this locality, for the use of several speci- 

 mens. Amongst others, the form we have supposed to be a Caterpillar and 

 that we have referred to Antkrapalcemon, belonging to him. 



CRUSTACEA. 



ENTOMOSTRACA. 



XYPHOSURA. 



Genus BELLINURUS, Kcenig. 



Not having had an opportunity to consult Koenig's original diagnosis of 

 this genus, nor indeed a good description of it by any other author, we 

 are not aware what characters were assigned it, or how its author proposed 

 to distinguish it from the existing genus Limulus. Most authors, including 

 Milne Edwards, Bronn, Prestwich, Mantell, Portlock, Murchison and others, 

 referred the species to Limulus, though Portlock in doing so remarks that the 

 distinct trilobation and segmencation of the abdomen iu these fossil species, 

 seem to constitute a generic distinction. Pictet admits the genus in his 

 Trait deFalceont., ii. 538, and remarks that it is distinguished from Limulus "by 

 the articulation of the tail, and above all by the abdominal buckler presenting 

 two distinct longitudinal furrows." Prof. Owen also admits the genus, in his 

 valuable " Palaeontology, or Systematic Summary of Extinct Animals," (p. 43) 

 and says it differs from the "King-Crab, (Limulus) in the movable condition 

 of the body segments." 



A careful study, however, of fine specimens of the species described below, 

 has satisfied us that the segments of its abdomen are not movable, but as 

 firmly and completely united into a single shield as iu the genus Limulus. We 

 are, therefore, led to believe that this genus is mainly distinguished from Li7n- 

 ulus, (so far as its characters have yet been made out) by the more transverse 

 form of its cephalo- thoracic shield, its proportionally much longer and more 

 slender legs*, the transversely or subcircular form, and distinct trilobation 

 and segmentation (not complete division, however,) of its abdomen ; as well 

 as by its flattened borders without movable spines. There are also some dif- 

 ferences in the more anterior position of the eyes, the stronger and more con- 

 tinuous character of the ocular ridges, as well as iu the subdivisions of the 

 area circumscribed by these ridges in Bellinurus. Other differences, of perhaps 

 greater importance, will probably be observed, when the appendages of the 

 under side can be seen. 



None of our specimens are in a condition to show the small anterior pair of 

 simple eyes, though from the general analogy of this interesting crustacean 

 to the genus Limulus, it is more than probable better specimens may show 

 them. And yet it is possible, from the more anterior position of the eyes, 

 corresponding to the larger reticulated pair in the genus Limulus, tliat the 

 small supplementary pair may not have been needed. As in Limulus, it shows 

 a row of six small pits in each of the longitudinal furrows of the abdomen, 

 marking the position of the muscular apophyses within ; while the condyle, 

 for the articulation of the abdomen with the cephalothorax, seems to agree 

 exactly with that of Limulus. 



We are not aware of the nature of the peculiarities in the articulation of 

 the caudal segment mentioned by Pictet, none of our specimens being in a 

 condition to show the connection of these parts satisfactorily, while he does 

 not explain in what the difference consists. 



*One of our ppRcimens of the fullowing described species, as well as one of Ii. avtlirax, figured 

 by Prestwich, (Trans. Geol. Soc, London, v. p. xli, fig 1.) shows that at least one pair uf tlie legs 

 (if they were articulated around the m mth, at the middle of the cephalothorax, as in Limulus) 

 must have been quite as long as the abilominal and cephalothoracic shields together; which would 

 be proportionally more than twice the length of any of the legs in Limulus. 



1865.] 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



, Bkllinurus Dan^e, M. & W. 



Cephalo-thoracic shield transversely crescentric, more than twice as wide 

 as long, moderately convex, the height nearly equalling half its length ; ante- 

 rior and antero-lateral margins broadly and regularly rounded ; lateral angles 

 produced obliquely backwards and outwards, with a very slight inward curve, 

 into slender mucronate spines, terminating remote from, and nearly opposite 

 the middle of the abdomen ; posterior margin on each side for about two- 

 thirds of the way in from the lateral angles, toward the middle, concave in 

 outline ; nearly straight or very slightly concave along the middle between 

 these two points. Mesial lobe small, somewhat lower than the ocular ridge 

 on either side, but rounded and well defined behind, where it supports a small 

 central tubercle (or short spine?), thence narrowing forward, and sometimes 

 showing a slight tendency to develope a second much smaller tubeixie, at 

 about one-third the length of the shield from its posterior margin; near 

 which point it suddenly contracts into a mere linear carina that extends 

 forward to the anterior transverse division of the ocular ridge. Area cir- 

 cumscribed by the ocular ridge, crown-shaped, or subquadrangular in out- 

 line, and composing the central third of the cephalo-thoracic shield ; a little 

 wider anteriorly than its length, which equals about five-sixths that of the 

 shield ; lateral margins concave in outline ; anterior side convex, with a 

 central emargination ; internal surface divided into four irregular subordi- 

 nate areas, by the mesial lobe with its linear anterior continuation, and a 

 less distinctly defined, secondary transverse linear ridge. Ocular ridge 

 narrow, but distinct, its lateral divisions arching inwards behind the eyes, 

 and terminating posteriorly at the margin of the shield nearly opposite the 

 middle of each lateral lobe of the abdomen, in a (triangular ?j spine, which is 

 directed backwards, outwards and a little upwards ; anterior transverse di- 

 vision arching forwards on each side, and curving backwards in the middle. 

 Compound ? eyes small, remote, and located one at each antero-lateral angle 

 of the crown-shaped central area, at points about one-third the length of the 

 shield from its anterior margin. (Simple eyes, if they existed, unknown.) 



Abdomen transversely suboval, or truncato-subcircular in outline, being 

 wider than long, and nearly straight anteriorly, with lateral margins rounding 

 in abruptly in front, and more gradually into the regularly rounded posterior 

 outline ; generally rather more depressed than the cephalo-thorax, particularly 

 inTront. Flattened lateral border rather narrow, and regularly scolloped be- 

 tween its projecting marginal spines. Mesial lobe narrow, or of about the 

 same breadth as that of the cephalo-thorax, and near half as broad as, and a 

 little more elevated than, the lateral lobes ; segments well defined ; first and 

 third each provided with a small central tubercle ; sixth as long as any three 

 of the others, rather abruptly narrowed and depressed behind, and surmounted 

 anteriorly by a large tubercle (or spine?). Lateral lobes somewhat flattened 

 on the inner half, and rounding down rather abruptly to the flattened free 

 borders on each side and behind ; segments defined by distinct linear ridges, 

 which are separated by flattened spaces four or five times as wide; these 

 ridges extend obliquely outwards and a little backwards across the lateral 

 lobes and their flattened borders, beyond which they are produced into slender 

 mucronate spines, of nearly equal length, curved obliquely backwards. 



Caudal segment, or stylet, apparently nearly two-thirds as long as the ab- 

 domen; gradually tapering, and trigonal or sub-trigonal, being flat below, 

 angular on each side, and angular or rounded above. 



Appendages of the under side unknown, excepting one of the legs, which 

 is seen in one specimen, projecting out from under the cephalo-thoracic 

 shield, between its posterior margin and the abdomen. It is long and slender, 

 and shows of the first segment projecting from under the shield, a length of 

 about 012 inch. The next segment appears to be 025 inch in length, 

 with a breadth of only 004 inch. The succeeding segment can be traced in 



[Mar. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 45 



the matrix for a distance of about 0-30 inch, being slightly curved near the 

 extremity, and apparently tapering to a point, this was probably also pro- 

 vided with a movable finger as in Limulus, but the specimen is not in a con- 

 dition to show it. It is not possible to determine which one of the legs this is. 

 .Entire length from the extremity of the caudal segment to the anterior 

 margin of the cephalo-thorax, about l-OO inches. Length of cephalo-thorax, 

 0-57 inch, breadth of do. to the extremities of postero-lateral spines, 1-70 

 inches ; length of area included within the ocular ridge, 0-50 inch ; greatest 

 breadth of do. (which is the distance between the eyes,) 0.60 inch. Length 

 of abdomen, 0-65 inch ; breadth of do., exclusive of the flattened margin, 0-94 

 inch, including it, 1-06 inch; breadth of mesial lobe, 0*23 inch ; length of 

 caudal segment, about 0-GO inch. 



Of the known species of Bdlinurus, ours seems to be most nearly related to 

 £. bellulus, Koenig, (the type of the genus, if we mistake not), which is re- 

 garded as being identical with Limulus rotundatus, of Prestwich, (Trans. Geol. 

 Soc, London, v. p. 413, pi. XLL figs. 4, 6 and 7.) From this species, however, it 

 may be at once distinguished by having the lateral angles of its cephalo-thorax 

 produced into long, slender spines, and the flattened border of its abdomen 

 proportionally much narrower, and armed with a series of sharp-curved 

 spines, instead of being merely serrated. 



We should also remark here, that Prof. Owen's figure of B. bellulus, (Palae- 

 ontology, p. 42,) as well as that given by Murchison of the same, under Prest- 

 wich's name rotundatus, (Siluria, p. 318,) represent the eyes as being located 

 at the lateral extremities of a large, transversely oval or subelliptical area ; 

 while within this, there is a smaller, crown-shaped area, circumscribed by a 

 ridge, and in all its principal features, corresponding to that which in our 

 species has the eyes located at its anterior lateral angles. This wide dif- 

 ference in the position of the eyes, as well as in the ridges of the central 

 region of the cephalo-thoracic shield, if they really exist, would apparently 

 be of more than specific importance. The close general agreement, however, 

 of these forms, in all their other essential characters, renders it very impro- 

 bable that they belong to different genera. Hence, we would suggest that 

 there may have been some error in the figures cited above, representing the 

 eyes (which are with difficulty seen in any but well preserved specimens) in 

 this outer position, and the presence of a large outer ocular area surrounding 

 that corresponding to the quadrangular one in our species. We are the more 

 inclined to think this is the case, from the fact that Owen's and Murchison's 

 figures appear to have been reduced from Prestwich's figures 5 and 6, cited 

 above ; which represent the two halves of a nodule, containing a specimen 

 and its mould, of B. bellulus, with a large transversely oval space in the cen- 

 tral region of the cephalo-thorax, as we must think, accidentally crushed in. 

 This view seems to be sustained, too, by Mantell's figures of the same species, 

 from specimens collected by him at the same locality, (see iMedals of Crea- 

 tion, p. 550,) which show no traces of this outer transversely oval ocular 

 area. 



In the elongated, spine-like character of the lateral angle of its cephalo- 

 thoracic shield, as well as in having the margins of the abdomen armed with 

 sharp spines, our species agrees more nearly with B. anthrax (= Limulus an- 

 thrax, Prestwich), but it differs in the form of the outline of the anterior side 

 of the cephalo-thorax, as well as in the direction of its prolonged lateral 

 angles, and its less produced spines around the flattened margins of the ab- 

 domen. Hence, it appears to be intermediate in its characters between B. 

 anthrax and B. bellulus. 



We are gratified to be able to dedicate this fine species, the first of th« 

 genus hitherto discovered in America, to Prof James D. Dana, the author of 

 one of the most important works on the Crustacea ever published ; to whom 

 we are indebted for the loan of one of the specimens from which the fore- 

 going description was drawn up. 

 1865.] 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



TETRADECAPODA. 

 ISOPODA. 



(ANISOPODA.) 

 .? Family ^ C^ NTHO TELSONIDJS. 

 Genus ACANTHOTELSON, Meek k Worthen. 



Superior antennae nearly as long as the inferior, and provided with well 

 developed accessory appendages ; flagella of both pairs longer than the pe- 

 duncles ; head about equalling the length of the first two anterior thoracic 

 segments. Thoracic and abdominal segments (except the last one) not dif- 

 fering materially in length, and each shorter than the head. Anterior thora- 

 cic legs longer than the others, not chelate. Telson or terminal segment 

 simple, long, spiniform, and laterally compressed. Stylets with second seg- 

 ments (bifid?) much longer than the first, and similar to the telson. 



The fact that the oral apparatus, and other appendages of the head, as 

 well as the branchiae, always so important in the classification of the Crus- 

 tacea, are so rarely preserved in fossil species, especially those of smaller 

 sizes, renders their study more difficult than that of most other organic re- 

 mains. Hence, in describing new species, genera, or other groups, the palae- 

 ontologist is often unable to give any information in regard to the very parts 

 that would be the first to claim the attention of the Carcinologist in the in- 

 vestigation of recent species. Another difficulty also arises from the fact 

 that, as in other departments of palaeontology, it often happens in the study 

 of fossil Crustacea, we meet with types presenting a combination of cha- 

 racters which in existing species are distributed in widely distinct groups. 

 So that on finding a new type showing only a part of its characters, we 

 would often be led at once to place it in a group with which probably the 

 next specimen found would show it to possess some one or more wholly in- 

 compatible peculiarities. 



On first examining specimens of the typical species of the genus above 

 described, our impression was, that it must be, beyond all doubt, a true Am- 

 phipod. A more careful examination, however, soon showed that it presented 

 the radical difference from all the known types of that extensive group, of 

 having only one pair of the abdominal appendages styliform, and the other 

 five natatory, instead of three pairs styliform and three natatorj- ; thus com- 

 bining with its Amphipodan abdomen, thorax, head, anterior appendages, and 

 general physiognomy, the single pair of styliform appendages of the Isopoda. 



Being therefore left in doubt in regard to its afiinities, we sent sketches of 

 some of the best specimens to Prof. Dana, who had also previously received 

 some imperfect specimens of the same species from Illinois. On examining 

 these sketches and specimens, Prof. Dana wrote that he thinks this crusta- 

 cean most probably belongs to a group holding an intermediate position be- 

 tween the typical Isopoda and the Amphipoda, for which he has proposed the 

 name Anisopoda. This intermediate group, as first shown by Prof. Dana, is 

 characterized, like the Amphipoda, by having the three posterior pairs of 

 thoracic legs in one series, and the four anterior in another ; while, as in the 

 Isopoda, the branchiae are abdominal, and only one pair of abdominal appen- 

 dages are styliform, and five branchial. 



In regard to the division of the thoracic legs into two series, we would 

 remark, that we have observed no evidences of it in all the specimens we 

 have seen, excepting one of those kindly loaned us by Prof. Dana. In this, 

 however, four pairs of these legs seem to be directed backwards, and only 

 three forward ; which, if not produced by accidental distortion, would indi- 

 cate 7«<>porf afiinities. Yet, in all the other specimens seen, the whole seven 

 pairs are directed forward. Although much inclined to believe the latter 

 their normal arrangement, it should be remembered, as suggested by Prof. 



[Mar. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Dana, that however important this character may be in the study of the re- 

 cent Tetradecapod Crustacea, it can scarcely be made available in the inves- 

 tigation of crushed fossil species, where so many accidents might have oc- 

 curred to place the legs in an unnatural position. 



We have not been able to clearly satisfy ourselves whether or not our crus- 

 tacean had squaraiformly developed epimerals, as in the normal groups of 

 Amphipoda ; though some of the specimens appear to show indications of 

 such development; while the shortening of the vertical diameter of the tho- 

 racic segments, as compared with those of the abdomen, would seem to be, 

 as it were, an arrangement to make room for such scale-like epimerals. In 

 addition to this, the fact that all of the six or eight specimens we have yet 

 seen, lie in the concretions upon one side or the other, would appear to indi- 

 cate that the lateral motion of the thoracic legs was in some way restrained 

 so as to prevent the animal from taking an erect position, which is precisely 

 the effect produced in the normal Amphipoda by the possession of well de- 

 veloped squamose epimerals. If this should prove to be the case, it would 

 show that the remarkable combination of Amphipod and Isopod, or Ariisopod 

 characters, already alluded to in this fossil, are real, and not simulative ; 

 since it would thus present maiuly the anterior structure (possibly even to 

 the thoracic position of the branchice) of a normal Amphipod, combined with 

 the single pair of styliform, and five natatory abdominal appendages of the 

 Isopoda or Anisopoda. 



It must be evident, we think, that such an ensemble of characters as that 

 presented by our fossil, would exclude it from any known family of the Te- 

 tradecapoda ; hence we can but regard it as the type of a new family. 



ACANTHOTELSON StIMPSONII, M. & W. 



Linear or sublinear in form. Upper antennse at least as long as the head 

 and first five thoracic segments ; peduncle moderately stout, rather longer than 

 the head; first joint a little longer and wider than the two others, which are 

 of nearly equal length ; flagellum slender and very minutely jointed ; acces- 

 sory appendage nearly or quite as long as the flagellum, and like it, 

 minutely jointed. Inferior antennae as long as the head and seven thoracic 

 segments ; peduncle slightly longer, but otherwise similar to that of the 

 upper antennie ; flagellum a litile stouter and longer, but in other respects as in 

 the upper pair. Head, as seen in the (compressed) side view, subquadraugular, 

 longer on the upper than the lower side, in consequence of the obliquity of 

 anterior side ; eyes small, round, placed just below the bases of the upper 

 antennae. The (fourteen) thoracic and abdominal segments distinct, and 

 (excepting the last one) of nearly equal length, — a few of those nearest the 

 head being a little shorter than the others ; all diminishing in depth (side 

 view) from about the antepenultimate one forward ; their anterior basal 

 margins rounded ; posterior rectangular, or a little rounded. 



First pair of thoracic legs about one-fourth longer, and a little stouter than 

 the succeeding five pairs, and apparently terminating in a slender, sharp 

 dactylus ; first joint above, a little shorter, narrower, and more tapering than 

 the next — neither more enlarged than the other joints above. Five succeed- 

 ing pairs of legs of nearly equal size and form ; their upper two (or three?) 

 joints very short, and not enlarged ; seventh pair nearly as long as the first, 

 and more slender than the others. Natatory abdominal appendages long and 

 slender; styliform pair with first joint short and quadrangular; second and 

 only otherjoint (double ?) with each branch (if there are two) simple, equal 

 and as long as the telson, which they nearly exactly resemble in form ; their 

 upper and lower margins each with a row of short, oblique, rather distant 

 seta;, between which may be seen by the aid of a magnifier, a series of much 

 more minute, closely-arranged setae. Telson as long as the last four abdomi- 

 nal segments ; at its base one-half ae wide, vertically, aa the penultimate 



1865.] 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



abdominal segment ; thence tapering, at first rapidly, and then very gradu- 

 ally, to a mucronate point, — upper and lower margins setigerous, like those of 

 the stylets. 



It is possible that when we can have an opportunity to examine additional 

 specimens, we may have to modify some of the characters given in the fore- 

 going generic or specific description ; though not, we believe, in any very 

 essential particular. We hope, however, to be able, hereafter, to clear up 

 several doubtful points in the structure of this interesting type, when we can 

 have better specimens for study. 



Length from anterior side of head to the extremity of the penultimate ab- 

 dominal segment 1.30 inches ; length of telson 0-31 inch ; length of the first 

 six abdominal segments 0*52 inch ; length of the seven thoracic segments 

 about 0-64 inch. Height of third abdominal segment 0-20 ; height of each 

 first two or three thoracic segments 0-12 inch ; length of stylets about 0-31 

 inch, of which the first joint forms only about 0*06 inch. Length of outer 

 antennae, including its peduncle, 0-66 inch. 



It is with pleasure that we dedicate this typical species of a new and 

 remarkable extinct genus to our friend Dr. William Stimpson, whose labors 

 in carcinology, and various other departments of zoology, are well known 

 in this country and Europe. 



ACANTHOTELSON IN^QUALIS, M. & W. 



The specimen upon which we propose to found this species, appears to 

 agree with the last in almost every respect, excepting in the proportional 

 size and the form of the segments. In the first place, the penultimate ab- 

 dominal segment is nearly twice the length of any of the others, instead of 

 being nearly or quite of the same length ; while the other abdominal seg- 

 ments (as seen in a side view) are more cuneiform than in the last. Again, 

 the fifth and sixth thoracic segments are longer, particularly above, and the 

 fourth shorter, than any of the others, instead of all being of about the same 

 length. We have not been able to see the stylets, nor to make out the nature 

 of the legs, but from a part of one of those of the anterior pair, they would 

 seem to be rather stouter than in the last described species. 



As these differences can scarcely be due to accidental distortion, we can 

 but regard this form, with the material now at hand for comparison, as a 

 distinct species. If we are correct in this view, it is probable good examples 

 will show other differences than those mentioned above. 



Length of head, thorax and abdomen 0-90 inch j length of head 0"12 inch ; 

 length of the seven thoracic segments about 0-50 ; length of first five ab- 

 dominal segments 0-26 inch ; length of penultimate abdominal segment 0"09. 

 Height of third abdominal segment (flattened side view) 0-13 inch ; height of 

 anterior thoracic segments about 07 inch. Length of lower antennae at least 

 0'43 inch ; length of upper not less than 0-36 inch, and probably a little 

 more. 



? Family PAL^EOCARID.E. 

 Genns PAL^OCARIS, Meek & Worthen. 



Inner and outer pairs of antennsB of nearly equal length, the former each 

 bearing a well developed accessory appendage ; peduncles of both pairs 

 shorter than the flagella. Head about as long as the first two abdominal 

 seofments. Thoracic legs long and slender ; anterior pair not chelate. Tel- 

 son long, tapering and horizontally flattened ; stylets with first joint very 

 small, second double, and also flattened horizontally. 



This is another remarkable type, presenting, so far as can be determined, 

 even a more puzzling combination of characters than that we hare described 

 under the name Acantholelson. In the nature of its antennre, with their ap- 

 parently well-developed basal scales, the structure of its caudal appendages, 

 aud its long, slender legs, spread out on each side, for walking in an erect 



[Mat. 




NATURAIi SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



attitude ; as Tvell as in the depressed, slender form of its abdomen and thorax, 

 it seems to present decidedly the aspect of a Macrural Decapod. Yet, on a 

 closer examination, we can see no traces of a carapace, — the thorax being 

 apparently divided into seven segments, like those of the abdomen, and each 

 provided with a pair of legs, as in the Telradecapoda. If we are not mistaken 

 in these latter characters, and we certainly believe we are not, it must show 

 a most extraordinary union of characters, which, amongst recent Crustacea, 

 belong to different primary divisions. From all that can be made out of its 

 structure, we are therefore inclined to view it as one of the " embryonic" or 

 '' comprehensive" types, so often met with in various departments of palaeon- 

 tology, and which furnish the advocates of the Darwinian hypothesis with 

 some of their strongest arguments. 



For the present, this genus is placed, provisionally, along with the Telra— 

 decapoda, though it cannot, we think, be included in any known family of 

 that division ; while if it should prove to be an embryonic or low type of the 

 Decapoda, it may be even necessary to establish for its reception, a division 

 of more than family importance. It is proper to remark here, however, 

 that we have not seen any one specimen showing the caudal appendages we 

 have described, along with the other characters of the thoracic and cephalic 

 members, mentioned above. One imperfect specimen shows the seven tho- 

 racic and five or six of the abdominal segments, with their legs and nata- 

 tory appendages, the head, antennae, and apparently their basal scales; 

 while another' shows the caudal appendages, and all of the thoracic and 

 abdominal segments, very distinctly, without any of the other members. 

 The general agreement, however, of these specimens, in the parts preserved 

 in each, is such that scarcely a doubt can be entertained that they belong 

 to the same species. Yet, in order to prevent confusion, we would remark, 

 that in case they should prove to belong to different genera, or species, 

 that it is the form showing the head, antennae, thoracic and abdominal 

 segments, with their appendages, &c., that we regard as the type of the genus. 



Pal^ocabis typus, M. & W. 



Linear, with thorax slightly wider near the middle than the abdomen ; 

 thoracic and abdominal segments of nearly equal length. Inner antennae 

 equalling the length of the head and thorax ; peduncles stout, first joint a little 

 longer and wider than either of the other two, which are of nearly equal 

 length, and minutely and closely setigerous on their inner margins ; flagel- 

 lum very slender, and minutely jointed ; accessory appendage nearly or quite 

 as long as the flagellum, and scarcely differing from it otherwise. Outer 

 antennsB possibly a little longer than the others, peduncles slightly longer 

 than those of the other pair, and like them minutely setigerous in front ; 

 basal scales (?) oblong, about as long as first joint of peduncles, squarely trun- 

 cated. Thoracic legs slender and long, anterior ones apparently not longer 

 or larger than the others, none of them (so far as can be seen) chelate, or 

 with anj- of the segments enlarged ; all the others with the first two or three 

 joints very short ; fourth ? joint horizontally extended, tapering, and about as 

 long as four segments of the borly ; succeeding joints (in the specimen ex- 

 amined) very slender and abruptly bent downwards and backwards. Na- 

 tatory abdominal appendages acutely lancelinear, and some of them as long 

 as four of the abdominal segments. Telson nearly as broad at the base as 

 the penultimate segment, tapering, and as long as two and a half of the 

 abdominal segments; minutely setig'srous on each side. Stylets, with first 

 joint very minute; second with each division as long as the telson, and lan- 

 celinear in form, with pointed extremities, and parallel, more or less setiger- 

 ous margins. 



Length of head, thorax, and first six abdominal segments, 0-78 inch ; do. 

 of head, 012 inch ; do. of the seven thoracic segments, 35 inch ; do. of 



1865.] 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



the first six abdominal segments, about 0-31. Length of telson, abont 0'14 

 inch ; do. of stylets, near 0-]3 inch. Length of lower or outer antennae, not 

 less than 0-38 inch, (probably mo'-e), of which the peduncle forms 0-15 inch ; 

 do. of inner, near 0-40 inch. Breadth of thorax^ 0'13 inch. 



DECAPODA. 

 MACRURA. 



? Genus ANTHRAPAL^MOX, Salter, 1861. 



The genus Anthrapalsemon was proposed by Mr. Salter in the Quarterly Jour- 

 nal of the Geological Society of London, vol. xvii., p. 529, for the reception 

 of a Crustacean from the Coal Measures of Scotland. His description of the 

 genus reads as follows : — 



" Carapace scarcely so broad as long, (except when crushed flat), simple, 

 flatter than semicylindrical, the sides a little arched outwards. A strong 

 central ridge in front, projecting as a thick (serrate ?) spine is separated by a 

 concave space, or slight furrow, from a posterior central ridge, which only 

 occupies (in the type species, Grossarii) a small portion of the length. Front 

 margin serrated. The outer antennae have wide, square basal joints, appar- 

 ently ifitkout any adoantage ;* the 2d and 3d joints not much oblique ; the rest 

 about as broad as long. Abdomen as broad as long, of six joints (besides 

 the telson), broad and very short ; the pleuriB, except the 2d, pointed. Tel- 

 .-on very broad ; appendages to the penultimate joint, double on each side, 

 suhtrigonal, broad.'' 



The name Anthrapalsemon was proposed from its supposed affinities to the 

 recent genus Palsemon, but Prof. Dana thinks it more nearly related to JEjha 

 and Galathea. 



AnTHRAPAL.EMON GRACILIS, M. & W. 



It is with considerable doubt that we venture to refer this species to Mr. 

 Salter's genus, the only specimen we have seen being imperfect, and not in a 

 condition to show the more important characters. In form and general 

 appearance, however, as well as in such of its details as can be made out, it 

 seems to agree well with that genus. The specimen consists of the abdomen 

 8,ad caudal appcLdages, (in a crushed condition), and an impression in the 

 matrix of the under side of the carai)ace, the outer pair of antennae, and ap- 

 parently of the eyes. The carapace, as seen from above, presents nearly an 

 oblong form, excepting that the lateral margins are moderately convex in 

 outline ; the two extremities are truncated, and the breadth nearly or quite 

 equalling three-fourths the length. Its lateral margins, in front of the mid- 

 dle, are each finely serrated by six small, sharp, projecting points as in the 

 tj-pe of the genus, excepting that they arc sharper, and directed more oblique- 

 ly forward. At each autero-lateral angle, there is also a considerably larger 

 projecting point, forming a short spine, exactly as in the type of the genus, 

 excepting that it is extended more nearly directly forward. The outer pair 

 of antennae are moderately stout: each peduncle showing three joints, di- 

 minishing rather gradually in size, the first longer than wide, and the other 

 two apparently of nearly equal length and breadth, and obliquely articulated. 

 The flagellura is narrower at it^base than the last joint of the peduncle, and 

 composed of very short segments, which are scarcely more than one third as 

 long as wide. The entire length of the antennai cannot be deteraiined, as 

 neither flagellum is entire in the specimen examined, but as the portion re- 

 maining tapers very gradually, they were probably rather long. They are 

 both, in the specimen examined, deflected abruptly outwards, nearly at right 

 angles to the longer diameter of the carapace, which would seem from the 



*l6 not tbie a misprint of tbe word apptndagef 



[Mar. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 5l 



Oblique articulation of the second and third joints of the peduncles, to be 

 their natural position. (Inner antenna unknown.) 



Immediately between the bases of the two outer antennae, the specimftA 

 6hows what appear to be impressions of the two globose eyes, which with 

 their peduncles extend forward about two-thirds as far as the peduncles of 

 the antennae. These may possibly be the peduncles of the inner antennae; 

 but they look very much like globular eyes, on more slender peduncles. 



The abdomen is more than half the length, and about two-thirds th'6 

 breadth, of the widest part of the carapace. It shows five short segments, 

 and apparently part of another, the first of which is a little smaller, and th* 

 Second a little larger than the others. None of them, however, are more thAtl 

 one-fifth as long as the breadth of the abdomen. 



The caudal appendages being unfortunately bent down and crushed, 

 it is not possible to make out the form of the telson or the details of tbfc 

 other parts, though the whole together seem to have been wider than th€ 

 abdomen, and as wide as the carapace. No surface sculpturing can be clear- 

 ly made out, though there is some appearance of a few irrsgular scattering 

 granules near the margins of the carap&ce. (Other parts unknown ) 



Entire length, from the stalked eyes? to the extremity of the caudal ap- 

 pendages, about 1-13 inches; length of carapace, 0-63 inch ; breadth of do. 

 near the middle, 0-45 inch; at the extremities O-Sl inch; length of abd6>- 

 men, 0-30 inch ; breadth of do. near the middle, 0-26 inch. Length of pe- 

 duncles of the antennae 0-15 inch ; do. of eyes ? and their peduncles, 0-13 inclr. 



It will be observed from the foregoing description that our specimen 

 shcrws no traces of the central spine or beak, extending forward from the 

 anterior extremity of the carapace, nor of the longitudinal carina connected 

 with it, which constitutes such a marked feature in Anthrapalsemon. It ifl 

 possible, however, that this character may have been obliterated in breaking 

 open the concretion, since our specimen only shows an impression of the 

 under side of the carapace, while the appendage alluded to projects forward 

 from the upper side, and may consequently be embedded in the other half of 

 the concretion, which we have been unable to obtain. Still as it is possible 

 that this appendage may be wanting in our fossil, we should not be sur- 

 prised if it would prove to belong to an allied but distinct genus. 



Specifically at least, it differs from A. Grossarlii, of Salter, in the propor- 

 tionally much shorter joints of the flagella of its outer antennas, and the 

 oblique articulations of the segments of their peduncles ; while the latter, as 

 well as the surface of other parts, are without any traces of the fine pitting 

 represented by Mr. Salter's figures. Our specimen also shows traces of what 

 appear to be squarely truncated basal scales to the outer antennae, about as 

 long as their first joints, while Mr. Salter's figure (1), represents apparently 

 a triangular scale over the left antenna. 



Length from the end of the caudal extremity, to the anterior margin of the 

 carapace, 1 inch. Length of carapace, 0-60 inch; breadth of do. 0-43 inch. 

 Length of abdomen, about 30 inch; breadth of do. 027 inch. Length of 

 caudal appendages, 0-10 inch. 



yiYRIAPODA. 



? Genus ANTHRACERPES, Meek & Worthen. 

 Akthuackbpes typos, M. & W. 



TWs genus and species are founded upon a slender worm-like fossil, the 

 refetions of which have not been very clearly determined. The specimen 

 consists of a well defined moi'ld or impression left in a concretion, and meas- 

 ures 1-50 inches in length, and about 0-09 inch in breadth, (height) as seen 

 lying upon one side. It is regularly arched from end to end, so as to form 

 iibout one-third of a circle of 0-65 inch radius. For most of its length, it is 

 1865.] 




52 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



of very uniform breadth or height, but it tapers very gradually towards 

 what appears to be the posterior end, where the last segment terminates in 

 three or four short, slender, spine-like appendages, directed backwards on a 

 line with the general curve of the body. The other end being broken away 

 in the only specimen yet known, the nature of the head and its appendages 

 cannot be determined. 



The entire body is distinctly articulated, and shows clearly nineteen seg- 

 ments, and part of another. The segments are of nearly uniform size, or 

 only vary from 008 to 0-10 inch in length ; the last one, however, has only a 

 breadth or height of about 03 inch, and the next about twice that. Cross- 

 ing the segments near the upper side, may be seen in the mould an undefined 

 furrow, (produced by a ridge in the fossil itself) which bends downwards 

 and then up again as it passes across from side to side of each segment. 

 Anteriorly it is less distinct and placed very near the dorsal margin, but 

 in tracing it backwards it is found to descend and become more defined, until 

 it reaches the fourth segment from the extremity ; on this it passes obliquely 

 downward to its posterior inferior corner, so as not to be seen on any of the 

 succeeding divisions behind. Below the middle of each segment, there is in 

 the mould a small prominence, evidently marking the position of a corres- 

 ponding pit in the fossil. These agree in position and appearance with the 

 spiracles or breathing apertures in the Myriapoda. We have not been able to 

 make out very clearly, any indications of feet or other appendages ; though 

 there is near the base of each segment of the mould, a short oblique impres- 

 sion, that may possibly have been left by very small feeble legs folded back- 

 wards. 



As this fossil shows too many segments for a larval insect, and has uot 

 the aspect of an Annelid, we are rather inclined to view it as a Myriapod. 



INSECTA. 



LEPIDOPTERA. 



Genus PAL^EOCAMPA, Meek and Worthen. 



Pal^eocampa anthrax, M. & W. 



The fossil for which the above generic name is proposed, is about 0-70 inch 

 in length, and some 0-13 inch in breadth, exclusive of the projecting tufts of 

 hairs. It is an arcuate, worm-like body, that has been divided or split 

 lengthwise in breaking open the concretion in which it is enveloped ; so that 

 it is only a longitudinal section we see in looking at either half of the con- 

 cretion. At both extremities, and along the upper or convex side of the 

 curve, we observe densely packed tufts or fascicles of hairs individually radi- 

 ating, as if from small wart-like protuberances. These hairs are straight, 

 and about 0-30 inch in length. At one extremity, which appears to be the 

 anterior, two of the bundles of hairs are more radiating than the others, and 

 directed forward. The bundles distributed over the curved or dorsal side 

 are regularly arranged, and have each a general direction at right angles from 

 the part of the arched side from which they spring. At the posterior ex- 

 tremity there are also two tufts directed backwards, the individual hairs of 

 which are less radiating than those at the other extremity. Between some 

 of the bundles ranged along the upper side, some shorter tufts are seen, 

 which appear as if they originate in another series of protuberances farther 

 over on the other side embedded in the matrix. If we suppose each of these 

 principal bundles along the curved side, and the two bundles at either end 

 to each belong to a single segment, it would make about ten or eleven seg- 

 ments to the entire body. 



The specimen is not in a condition to show the head or feet ; yet we are 

 strongly inclined to believe from its form, and peculiar regularly arranged 

 bundles of hairs, that it is a Catkbpillae. If we are right in this suggestion, 



[Mar. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



its discovery is certainly an interesting one, as it would present an evidence 

 of the existence of Lepidopterous Insects, at a much earlier period in our 

 world's history than has hitherto been suspected. 



As this fossil will doubtless be met with in the Coal Measures at other lo- 

 calities, whether or not its connection with the mature Butterfly or Moth can 

 ever be positively established, it seems desirable, for convenience of refer- 

 ence, that it should receive a name ; although we are unable to point out 

 any well defined characters from the only specimen seen, by which it can be 

 distinguished from the larva of several existing types. That there is any 

 probabilitj', however, of its belonging to any existing genus, will, we think, 

 not be maintained by any person familiar with the range of generic types 

 in time. 



April 4<A. 



Vice-President, Cassin, in the Chair. 



Tweotv-two members present. 



The following paper was presented and referred to a Committee : 

 " Diagnoses Specierum et varietatum novarum Moliuscorum," etc, 

 Bj Philip P. Carpenter. 



^prillUh. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Twenty-five members present. 



The following were presented and referred to a Committee : 



" Synopsis of the genus Pomoxys," " On the genus Caulolatilus," 

 " On the cranial characteristics of Gadus proximus," and " Note on 

 several genera of Cyprinoids." By Theo. Gill. 



The Curators exhibited a large living specimen of the Great Crab- 

 Spider, Mygale cancerides, recently brought from Brazil, and presented 

 by Mr. Newton. 



The Secretary announced the death, on the 30tli ult., of Major 

 Charles I. Maceuen, late a member of the Academy. 



April ISth. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Twenty members present. 



The following papers were presented and referred to Committees : 



♦' Observations on the Eocene Lignite Formation of the United 

 States," and " Catalogue of the Eocene Annelides, etc." By T. A. 

 Conrad. 



" Descriptions of three new species of Exotic Uniones." By Isaac 

 Lea. 



The Secretary read the following : 

 1865.] 




^ PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Extract from the last Will and Testament of Thomas B. Wilson, deceased, late 

 of Newark, State of Delaware, and on record in the Register's Office, New- 

 castle, Delaware. 



" I will and bequeath to the Academy of Natural Sciences, of Philadelphia, 

 my collection of Birds and all my other specimens of Natural History deposited 

 by me in the hall or building of the said Academy of Natural Sciences, on 

 Broad street, Philadelphia. And I further give and bequeath to the said 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, the sum of Ten Thousand dollars, 

 to be by them invested in some safe and productive fund, and as often as it 

 may be necessary to change the said investment, to re-invest the said sum in 

 like manner ; which fund shall be called the Library Fund, and the income 

 therefrom shall be exclusively appropriated to the purposes, preservation and 

 income of the Library of the said Academy, in the following manner : Three 

 hundred dollars of the yearly income arising therefrom, I direct to be paid as 

 a yearly salary to a Librarian, to be appointed by the said Academy, whose 

 duties shall be by them fixed and determined ; and the residue of the yearly 

 income arising from the said fund I direct to be applied, firstly, to the con- 

 tinuance, by purchase, of such works published periodically or in numbers as 

 are now contained in and belonging to the Library of the said Academy. And, 

 secondly, to the purchase and procuring of such works relating to Natural 

 History as may be designated and selected by the said Librarian and the Li- 

 brary Committee of the said Academy jointly." 



The said Will is dated the seventeenth day of March, Anno Domini, one 

 thousand eight hundred and fifty-four, (1854.) 



Attest, Rathmell Wilson, 



Surviving Executor. 



April 25th. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



On the favorable report of the respective Committees, the following 

 papers were ordered to be published : 



Diagnoses Speciemm et Varietatnm novarum MOLTTSCOEXTM, prope Sinum 

 Fugetianum a Eenaeilio Doctore, nuper decesso, coUectoium. 



SCRIBEEAT PHILIP P. CARPENTER, B.A., PH.D. 



Academise Alumnas CoTrespondens. 



Sh^nia ovoidea, n. s. 



S. t. parv^, albida, ovoidea; epidermide cinerca, parum rugosa, indutfi ; 

 marginibus, antico et ventrali regulariter excurvatis ; dorsalibus rectis ad 

 angulum circiter 150° ; parte postica angustiore, obtuse angulata. parum trun- 

 cata ; umbonibus prominentibus, circiter ad duas inter quinque partes totius 

 longitudinis sitis ; intus, lamina cartilaginea lata, parum extante ; sinu pallii 

 ovali, usque ad medium interstitii porrecto. Long. -3, lat. -16. alt. -09, poll. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano specimen unicum piscavit Kennerley. 



A "Sph. ?Binghami" Searles Wood Crag Moll., vix diflfert. 



Ne^era pectinata, n. s, 



N. t. globosa, albida, subdiaphana ; epidermide tenui indutd ; ventraliter 

 antice producta, postice subito angustato, rostrato ; rostro baud insculpto, 

 duabus inter quinque partes totius longitudinis aequante ; parte globosa acute 

 costaia ; costis posticis paullum majoribus, magis distantibus; margines dor- 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



sales versus obsoletis ; interstitiis latis, quadratis, minutissime concentrice 

 striatis ; costis principalibus t. jun. xii. — xr., adulta, aliis crebre intercalanti- 

 bus, circ. xxx., quarum primi majores : intus, lamina cartilaginea curta,, sub 

 umbones celata ; dente postico satis elongato, regioae adductoris iatus cla- 

 viculato ; cicatricibus adductoribus subrotundatis, deorsum sitis ; siuu pallii 

 parvo, lato : margine a costis pectinate. Long. -24, lat. -14, alt. -12. 



Hah. — In sinu Piigetiano specimen junior legit Kennerlej. Apud insulam 

 Catalinam et Sanct. Barbaram adultum piscavit Cooper. 



Genus PANDORA. 

 Subgenus Kennerlia. 



Testa Pandoris veris simillima ; cartilago ossiculam gerens; ligameatum 

 elongatum tenuissimum ; lamina externa prlsmatica valvfi planata plerum- 

 que radiatim sulcata ; cardo simplex ; linea pallii baud sinuata. 

 Ex. — Kennerlia filosa. 



Kennerlia bicarinnta. [?An P. biliratx, Conr., squalis.] 

 Kennerlia glacialis. 



Kennerlia filosa, n. s. 



K. t. tenui, planoconvexa, maxime rostrata ; raarginibus dorsalibus rectis, 

 ad angulum circ. 160°; ventrali regulariter et modice excurvato, postice vix 

 sinuato ; epidermide olivacea, plerumque erosa, postice corrugata ; lamina 

 externa prismatica spongiosa, valva planata radiatim sulcata, (quasi filosa,) 

 sulcis distantibus ; valva convexa costa obtussissima postice decurrente ; 

 lineis seu undis increment! conspicuis : intus, dente cardinali uno, parvo, 

 extante ; callositate claviculoidea antica, margini coatigua ; fossa cartilagi- 

 nali postice sita; cicatricibus adductoribus rotundatis, margini dorsali con- 

 tiguis ; linea pallii simplici. Long. -8, lat. -4, alt. -12. 



Hab. — In siau Pugetiano satis rare piscavit Kennerley. 



PSAMMOBIA RUBRORADIATA, (Xutt. MS.) 



Ps. t. seu omnino lilacina, seu albida, lilacino plus minusve radiata ; mag- 

 na, solida, lata, subiiequilaterali, baud planata, rugis incrementi irregularibus 

 instructa ; epidermide olivacea induta ; marginibus, dorsalibus antice et pos- 

 tice rectis, ad angulum ltJO°, umbonibus prominentibus, obtusis ; veutrali 

 subplanato, antico rotundato, postico subquadrato : iatus, albida ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus utraque valva duobus, parvis ; nymphis planatis, latioribus, 

 ligamento extante ; cicatricibus adductoribus, antico ovali, postico rotundato ; 

 sinu pallii subquadrata, usque ad medium porrecta, a margine ventrali linea 

 solum separata ; costis dua jus ab umbonibus ad marginem internum cica- 

 tricum diagonaliter decurrentibus. 



= " Sanguinolaria rubro-radiata, Conr." [?ubi] Xutt. MS. ; B. A. Rep., p. 195. 



Macoma toldiformis, n. s. 



M. t. parva, valde transversa, subplanata, yoldiformi ; alba, tenui, subdia- 

 phana, politissima ; epidermide nitente, pallide straminea induta ; lineis in- 

 crementi, postice conspicuis, exceptis, hevi ; parum intequilaterali, umbonibus 

 postice inflectis ; marginibus undique (regione ligamenti cxcepta) regulariter 

 excurva'is: intus, nympha ligamentali concava, subcelatii ; postice sccta, 

 dein parum alata; dentibus cardinalibus valva sinistrali ii., quorum nnus 

 bifidus ; margine dorsali antico excurvato ; sinu pallii obscure triangulate, 

 paullo plus quam du»s trientes interstitii inter cicatrices adductorcs miaoree 

 porrccto. Long. 68, lat. -4, alt. -15. 



Eab. — In I'acifico Boreali primum piscavit Belcher: dein valvas duas in 

 sinu Pugetiano, Kennerley : postea prope San Diegonem, Cooper : rarissime. 



1865.] 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Macoma [Ivar.) expansa. 



M. t. " M. proiimic" simili, sed majore, multo tenuiore ; antice miDiis, pos- 

 tice plus expansa, regularitor excurvata ; t. jun. subdiaphana, subepidermi- 

 dem tenuem, stramineam, subnacreu; t. adulta alba, nitida ; dentibus cardi- 

 nalibus ii. — i. minimis, baud bifidis ; sinu palii valva altera per tres quad- 

 rantes, altera per quinque inter septem partes interstitii porrecto. Long. 

 1-55, lat. 1-13, alt. -5. 



JIab. — In sinu Pugetiano rarissime legit Kennerley. 



A "-!/. la;d, Gmel." Desh. MS. in Mus. Brit, vix differt, specimine Groen- 

 landico ; sed M. latm et calcarsc in Mus. Cumingiano texiura et dentibus 

 baud convenit. Species quaedam bujusce formae, extus similiores, intus 

 dentibus et sinu pallii satis differunt. 



(Tellina) Angulus modestus, n. s. 



A. t. "*4. tenero," Sayii simillima ; sed callositate conspicua interna antica 

 ab umbonibus decurrente, sinum pallii et cicatricem adductorem utraque 

 valva separante ; parva, subdiapbana, nitidissima, donaciformi ; epidermide 

 cornea tenuissima, striulis incrtmenti, plus minusve conspicuis, induta ; 

 margine antico dorsali subplanato ; umbonibus extantibus ; area postica 

 truncata, baud acute definita ; margine ventrali subplanata : intus, dentibus 

 cardinalibus utraque valva ii., quorum alternati bifidi ; valva sinistrali lat. 

 antico curto, extante, contiguo, posticis nullis ; sinu pallii usque ad callosi- 

 tatem porrecto ; nymphis pauUum concavis. Long. -36, lat. -22, alt. -08. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano, specimina duo juniora legit Kennerley. 



Angulus modestus, var. obtdsus. 



A. t. "A. modesto" simili ; sed majore, umbonibus obtusis, vix donaciformi, 

 marginibus dorsalibus et ventrali excurvatis ; candidiore, vix diapbana ; epi- 

 dermide pallidissime straminea. Long. -72, lat. -44, alt, -15. 



JIab. — In sinu Pugetiano legit Kennerley ; apud "Neab Bay," Swan ; prope 

 S. Pedro, Cooper. 



?Clementia subdiaphana, n. s. 



?C. t. ovali, quoad genus valde transversa, tumida, tenuissima; pallide 

 cinerea, epidermide pallide straminea; subdiapbana, sed subcalcarea, baud 

 porcellana; laevi, nisi striis incrementi ; baud lunulata, umbonibus satis pro- 

 minentibus : intus, valva dextra, dentibus anticis duobus acutis, contiguis, 

 elevatis, postico elongato, acuto, bifido, ligamento parallelo ; valva sinistra 

 dentibus anticis duobus, umbonem versus junctis, acutis, divergentibus, 

 postico elongato, acuto, simplici ; sinu pallii, ut in Dosinia, angusto, angu- 

 lato, per dimidium interstitii umbones versus porrecto. Long. -72, lat. -58, 

 alt. -34. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano specimina quaedam, plerumqne juniora, piscavit 

 Kennerley : ex insula Vancouver, specimen fractum portavit Forbes. 



Textura Lucinopsei couvenit; cardine, Clemtntife ; forma, Saxidomo squa- 

 lid© juniorL 



Genus PSEPHIS.* 



Animal Veneri simile, sed viviparum. 



Testa inter Pachydesma et Circem intermedia; laevis, seu concentrice 

 sculpta, nitida; cardine dentibus iii.— iii. variantibus, quorum anticus saepe 

 porrectus; marginibus baud crenulatis, dorsali intus sulcato ; sinu pallii 

 parvo, lato, interdum obsoleto ; ligamento tenui, umbones obtusus circum- 

 eunte. 



* Tb. 4^'^''; '' calculus. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 57 



Exemplum typicum : Psephis Lordi = Chione Lordi, Baird, Proc. Zool. Soc, 

 1863, p. 69. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano primum legit Kennerley : postea, in insula Van- 

 cover legit Lord : in insula Catalina, Cooper, 



Venus Kennerleti, n. s. 



V. t. ovali, solida, calcarea, squalide alba ; marginibus sequaliter excur- 

 vatis ; valde inaequilaterali, baud tumida ; rugis concentricis, validis, crebris, 

 irregularibus, baud acutis, instructa ; interstitiis concentrice striatis, (t. 

 juniore suborbiculari, striis radiantibus ornata ;) lunula lineis impressis 

 definita, rugis appressis instructa ; area baud defiuita ; intus, dcntibus utra- 

 que valva iii., quorum altera i. altera ii. plus miausve bifidis ; fulcbro valido ; 

 cicatricibus muscularibus validis ; sinu pallii parvo, anguste angulato ; mar- 

 ginibus tenuiter crenulatis. Long. 2-5, lat. 1-8, alt. 1-25. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano legit Kennerley: testas juniores, "V. astariex" 

 Midd. similes, legerunt juxta Neeab Bay, Swannii Indianuli. 



ASTARTE (? COMPRESSA, Var.) COMPACTA. 



A. t. " A. compresffe" simili, sed compacta, minus transversa ; liris concen- 

 tricis expressis, paucioribus, marginem posticam versus obsoletis ; umboni- 

 bus valde prominentibus, acutioribus ; marginibus dorsalibus rectis, ad 

 angulum 100° ; lunula minus impressa, longiore ; area ligamentali minus 

 angulata ; dente lateral! antico valva dextra magis extante. Long. •4, lat. 

 •33, div. -21. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano specimen unicum piscavit Kennerley. 



LUCINA TENUISCULPTA, U. S. 



L. t. "L. Mazatlanicie" formd simili ; sed magis convexd, sculptura multo 

 tenuiore ; epidermide olivaceo-cinerea induta ; t. juniore laevi ; postea, rugis 

 incrementi concentricis, plus minusve conspicuis, distantibus, irregularibus ; 

 costulis radiantibus subobsoletis, latis, crebrioribus, antice et postice evani- 

 dis ; area postica vix subquadrata, baud definita : intus, dentibus cardinali- 

 bus et lateralibus normalibus, satis extantibus ; ligaraento externo, elongato ; 

 cicatrice antica normaliter prolongata ; margine crenulato. Long. "23, lat. 

 ■21, alt. -13. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano legit Kennerley. 



Cryptodon serricatus, n.s. 



C. t. parva, subplanata, subcirculari, tenui, alba, baud flexuosa ; epider- 

 mide tenuissima, vix straminea, serricata, induta; laevi, sen lineis incrementi 

 vix ornata, nitente ; suborbiculari, seu ventraliter producta ; marginibus 

 undique valde et regulariter rotundatis, regioue lunulari incurvata ; umbo- 

 nibus antice bamatis ; lunula planata, baud exacte definita : intus, ligamento 

 tenui, omnino celato ; dentibus cardinalibus in utraque valva uno, extante, 

 lateribus nuUis ; cicatricibus adductoribus subovalibus, baud prolougatis ; 

 lineu pallii a margine baud crenato satis remota. Long. "16, lat. -18, alt. -l. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano legit Kennerley : in insula Vancouver, Swannii 

 Indianuli. 



Pythina eugifera, n. s. 



P. t. majore, tenuissima, valde transversa, subquadrata, vix insequilaterali; 

 lineis incrementi et epidermide rugosa, confertissime laminata, ornata ; um- 

 bonibus latis, valde prominentibus, antice flutentibus ; marginibus, dorsali- 

 bus satis regulariter excurvatis, regione postica paulum majore ; ventrali 

 planato, seu medio concave : intus, cardine maxime delicatulo ; dente cardi- 



1865.] 




58 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



nali uno minore, clavicula antica lateral! inco'nspicua ; lateral! po3tico nuUo. 

 Long. 77, lat. -44, alt. -3. 



Hah. — In sinu Pugetiano specimina duo, (quorum unum fractum,) piscayit 

 Kennerley. 



Inter Pythinas typicas et Kellias locum tenet. 



Tellimta tumida, n. s. 



T. t. subtriangulari, subovata, Icevi, solidiore, tumidiore, valde inaequilate- 

 rall ; cinerea, epidermide pallide olivacea, concentrice striata iuduta ; mar- 

 ginibus dorsalibus subrectis, ventral! excurrato : Intus, dentibus cardinalibus 

 valva sinistra validissimis, curtis, extantibus, postico longiore ; valva dextra 

 callositatibus marginalibus, dentibus nullis ; cartilagine validiore, ossiculum 

 parvum in medio gerente ; cicatricibus adductoribus a cardine valde remotis. 

 Long. -155, lat. -125, alt. -06. 



Kab. — In sinu Pugetiano specimen tinlcum legit Kennerley; apud Neeah 

 Bay, Swan ; prope Sau Diegonem, Cooper. 



Leda fossa, Baird. 



L. t. "i. minutse" simili ; sed parte antica minore ; postica magis porrecta, 

 angustiore ; umbonibus parvis, valde prominentibus ; lirulis concentricis 

 crebris, baud expressis, postice et testa adulta ventr iliter omnino obsoletis ; 

 regione siphonali baud lirata, obtuse biangulata, angulis contiguis, subno- 

 dosis ; regionibus dorsalibus utroque latere laevibus ; parte antica sulco 

 radiante obsoleto definita, liris illuc interdura interruptis : intus, dentibus 

 cardinalibus utroque latere xiv., posticis magis elongatis ; sinu pallii minimo. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano specimen unicum legit Kennerley : in porto Es- 

 quimalto, idem, Lyall. 



Proc. Zool. Soc, 1863, p. 71. = L. foveata, Baird MS., in Mus. Brit. 



Pecten {?var.) HindsiiI 



P. t. "P. ^a?<a<j" varietatibus simili, sed latiore ; radiis multo crebriori- 

 bus, asqualibus, laevioribus, minoribus, ventraliter bifurcantibus ; interstitiis 

 latis, minutissime granulosis ; intus albida. Long. 1-6, lat. 1-7, alt. -57. 



Hnh. — In sinu Pugetiano juniorem legit U. S. E. E., adultum Kennerley: ia 

 insula Vancouver legit Lord. 



= P. Fabricii, Gld. in B. A. Rep., p. 211, (non Phil. = P. islandicus, jun.) 



ToRNATiNA BXiMA, Baird. 



T. t. cylindracea, majore, laevi, pallide albolutescente ; epidermide strami- 

 nea, spiraliter tenuissime striulata, induta ; spira ssepius erosa ; suturis an- 

 gustis, acutissime canaliculatis ; labro acuto, antice sinuato, medio porrecto, 

 postice exciso, supra suturam valde et acute elevato ; apertura antice valde 

 elongata; columella valde excavaia, antrorsum labrum versus arcuata ; labio 

 tenui; plica angustissima, obsoleta, parieti appressa. Long. -26, lat. '12. 



Ilab. — In sinu Pugetiano primum legit Kennerley : postea in insula Van- 

 couver legit Lord. 



Speciminibus typicis comparitis, conchilias Kennerlianas Bullinx eximiee, 

 Baird, in Proc. Zool. Soc, 1863, p. 67, conspecificas esse certissime constat. 



Cylichsa (?cylindracea, var.) attonsa. 



C. t. " C. ciflindraceie'^ aliter simillima ; sed postice rotundata, hand um- 

 bilicata, vix lacunata, labro regulariter incurvato. Long. -SS, lat. -15. 



IJab. — In sinu Pugetiano specimen unicum legit Kennerley. 



Specimina Californica, a Jewett Cooperque coUecta, C. ci/li7idracese tjpicai 

 magis conveniunt. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



Dentalium eectius, n. s. 



D. t. valde elongata, valde tereti, lentissime augente, vix arcuata; laevi, 

 tCQuiore, albida, subdiaphana, valde nitente ; aperturam versus teiiuissim4. 

 Long. 1-9, lat. -13. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano legit Kennerley. 



Varina D. eburneo, Singaporensi, convenit ; sed annulis falacibua caren, 

 textura yalde dififert. 



MopALiA Kknnerleyi, u. s. 



M. t. "J/, muscoso" formi, indole, sculpturaque simili ; sed multo magis 

 elevata ; plus minusve rubente, plus minusve olivaceo variegata, intus pal- 

 lida ; granis lateralibus fere aequalibus ; liris centralibus hand acutis, inter- 

 stitiis rarius cancellatis ; suturis undatis, apicibus valvarum prominentibus ; 

 valva antica octoradiata, radiis granulosis, margine octies inciso ; valvis 

 intermediis utraque semel incisis ; valva postica mucrone obsoleto, sinu pos- 

 tico alto, angustiore, marginibus anticis valde alatis, lateribus posticis semel 

 incisis. 



Sab. — In sinu Pugetiano : sp. unicum legit Kennerley. 



?M0PALIA SINUATA, n. S. 



?M. t. parva, subelongatS,, elevata, jugo angulato ; rubido et cajruleo ele- 

 ganter maculata ; valvis elongatis, subquadratis ; areis lateralibus costa an- 

 gusta, subelevata, granulosa, utraque definiiis ; suturis quoque granulosis; 

 tota superfice clarissime reticulata, punctis areis centralibus valde, areis late- 

 ralibus et valvis terminalibus modice impressis ; valvis terminalibus ut ia 

 areis lateralibus sculptis, costis acutis radiantibus, interstitiis reticulatis; 

 valva postica maxime incisa, sinu alto, acuto mucronem tenus baud con- 

 spicuam eifossa : intus rosacea; marginibus apicinis granulosis tota longi- 

 tudine intortis ; sinu laminarum sa^uralium parvo, angusto ; laminis externis, 

 valvis centralibus semel incisis ; valva antica, fissuris circiter viii., costis 

 convenientibus ; valva postica, fissura laterali utraque costas conveniente, 

 postice maxime sinuata : limbo pallii coriaceo, pilulis paucis ; poro rotun- 

 dato parvo suturis utroque latere conveniente. 



Ifab. — In sinu Pugetiano specimina duo legit Kennerley. 



Mcpaliis typicus structura valvae posticae convenit : poria suturalibus vix 

 definitis, diflert. 



?M0PALIA IMPORCATA, n. S. 



?M. t. parva, valde elevata, satis elongata ; jugo acuto, rectangulato ; pal- 

 lida, rufotincta ; areis lateralibus, costa elevata, dense granulosa, definitis; 

 suturis dense granosis, marginibus intus implicatis ; valva anticS. circiter 

 octies granoso-costata ; arearum lateralium et valvse anticae interstitiis intri- 

 eatim ruguloso-indentatis ; areis centralibus costis longitudinalibus crebris, 

 validissimis, acutis, subparallelis, interstitiis crenulato-decussatis ; valva pos- 

 tic& mucrone baud conspicuo, submarginali, sinu parvo, angusto : intus, sinu 

 laminarum suturalium angusto : valvis centralibus fissura una ; valva auticd 

 fissuris ? — ; valva. postica fissura utraque una, postice sinu parvo, angulato : 

 limbo coriaceo, poris suturalibus aliisque hue et illuc sparsis, miautiS; setulis 

 albidis instructis. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano specimina duo legit Kennerley. 



Ut in ?M. sinuata, a Mopaliis typicis differt. 



ISCHNOCHITON (TrACHTDEUMON) RETIPOROSUS, D. 8. 



I. t. parva, subelongata, cinerea, valde elevata, jugo arcuato ; valvis sub- 

 quadratis, apicibus celatis, marginibus suturalibus intus reglicatis ; areis 

 lateralibus parum definitis, costulis iii. — vi. obsoletis, rotuadatis, hue et 

 1865.] 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



illnc granis acutis, expressis, instructis ; areis centralibus omaino scrobicu- 

 latis, interstitiis parvis, alte punctatis ; valvis terminalibus costulis crebris, 

 angustis, acutioribus ; mucrone parura eonspicuo, antrorsum sito : intus, 

 eiau suturali lato ; laminis, utroque latere semel, valvis terminalibus circ. 

 xii. incisis : limbo pallii granuloso, graaulis confertis, minimis, vix elongatis, 

 vix regularibus, baud sculptis. Long. -44, lat. -28, div. 90°. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano specimen unicum legit Kennerley. 



Forma 1. interslincto, Gld. et /. scrobiculato, Midd. conreait ; indole sculp- 

 tursB dififert. 



IscHNOCHiTON (Trachtdeemos) trifidis, n. s. 



I. t. elevata, ovali, rubida ; valvis latis, subquadratis, apicibus vix intortis ; 

 areis lateralibus subelevatis, costis obsoletis rotundatis ii. — iv. ; areis cen- 

 tralibus punctis distantibus, valde impressis ; valvis terminalibus ut in areis 

 lateralibus costatis ; valv^a postica mucrone submediana, baud elevata : intus 

 albida, subrosacea ; valvis utraque latere macule aurantio elongate ornatis, 

 sinuibus centralibus parvis, expansis ; marginibus externis subgrunda typice 

 obtectis ; laminis lateralibus bis, terminalibus circiter xii. incisis : limbo 

 pallii, granuloso, granis ovalibus, vix imbricatis baud striatis. Long. '75, 

 lat. -45, div. 110°. 



Hab. — la sinu Pugetiano specimen unicum piscavit Kennerley. 



IscHNOCHiTON (Trachydermox) pseudodentiens, ? n. s. 



I. t. parva, ovata, subelevata, jugo angulato ; cinerea, olivaceo eleganter 

 maculata, suturis albido et fusco-olivaceo baud regulariter tessellatis ; areis 

 lateralibus baud valde definitis ; tota superficie granulis creberrimis instructa ; 

 apicibus valvarum distinctis ; mucrone eonspicuo, submediano : intus, sinu 

 suturali lato, medio planato : subgrundis parvis, baud extaatibus, subspon- 

 giosis ; laminis lateralibus unofissatis ; terminalibus quoad xi., valde obtusis : 

 limbo pallii minute granuloso, granis laevibus, confertis, subovalibus. Long. 

 •44, lat. -24, div. 110°. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano legerunt primum Expeditio Explorans, demum 

 Kennerley : in insula Vancouver legit Lord: apud San Diegonem legit Cooper. 



Specimini typicali " Ch. dentientis, Gouldii" convenit: a diagnosi et figura, 

 baud dentiens, difFert. 



ISCHNOCHITON (TrACHTDERMON) FLECTENS, U. S. 



I. t. parva, subelongata, ro^ea, elevata ; jugo acuto ; areis lateralibus vix 

 definitis ; marginibus valvarum excurvatis, suturis incurvatis, apicibus valde 

 prominentibus ; valvis granulis minutis, baud crebris, subradiatim sparsis, 

 omninoque minutissime punctulatis ; mucrone eonspicuo, antico : intus, sinu 

 suturali lato, planato ; subgrundis baud porrectis ; laminis lateralibus uno- 

 terminalibus quoad xi.-fissatis : limbo pallii vix minutissime granulate. 

 Long. -35, lat. -24, div. 110°. 



Hab. — In sinu Pugetiano legit Kennerley: in insula Vancouver legit Lord: 

 prope Monterey, Taylor : apud San Diegonem, Cooper. 



LePETA CiECOIDES, n. s. 



L. t. " L. csecx " simili ; t. alba, ancyloidea, tenui, juniore subdiaphana ; apice 

 obtuso, antice verso; parte postica parum excurvata; lateribus baud compressis ; 

 margine regulariter ovate ; tota superficie sub lente minutissime striata, 

 striulis valde distantibus, baud elevatis, baud granulatis, subobsoletis ; ci- 

 catrice musculari baud impressa. Long. (t. adolesc.) -45, lat. -37, alt. '19 

 (speciminis multe majoris pars solum superest : long. -94, lat. -73, alt. -bo.) 

 div. 90°. 



Hab. — Specimina juniora perpauca viventia in sinu Pugetiano piscavit 

 Kennerley: ex insulis Farallonibus adulta affertur, teste Darbisbire. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



Calliostoma {?var.) tariegatum. 



C. t. parva, conica, variegata ; nucleo rosacco ; anfr. vi. planatis, suturis 

 baud impressis ; costulis in spira iii. regularibus, nodulosis ; nodulis albidis, 

 subdistantibus ; interstitiis elegantissime rosaceis ; lirulis basalibus viii. 

 baud nodulosis, rosaceo maculatis. Long. -24, long. spir. -13, lat. -21, div 

 50°. 



JIab. — Puget Sd., sp. un. legit Kennerley. 



This may prove to be an extreme variety of Cal. annulatura, Martyn. 



Margarita (?t;ar.)TENuiscuLPTA. 



M. t. " Jtf. Vahlii" forma, colore, et operculo simillima; sed striulis spirali- 

 bus, plus minusve obsoletis cincta, quarum iv.-vi. in spira monstrantur. 

 Long. -22, long, spir. -11, lat. -13, div. 70°. 



Hub. — Puget Sd., Kennerley. Neeah Bay, Swan. 



Except in the very faint spiral sculpture, -which does not always appear a 

 constant character in Margaritas (v. M. undulata in Fbs. and Hani. Br. Moll.,) 

 these shells might stand for M. Vahlii, a ? variety of which was found spar- 

 ingly by Dr. Kennerley. They are sometimes painted with infrasutural flam- 

 mules of darker ash. Both the smooth and the striated forms have a promi- 

 nent spiral rib oil the whorls of the operculum. 



Margarita lirulata, n. s. 



M. t. parva, cineracea, tenui, tumentiore, nacreo rosaceo ; anfr. v. plerumque 

 subdepressis, suturis distinctis ; interdum purpureo-fusco pallide maculatd ; 

 lirulis acutis spiralibus baud elevatis, supra valde distantibus, in spira ii., 

 circa basim rotundatum circ. viii. ; apertura subquadrata ; umbilico magno, 

 infundibuliformi, angulato ; interstitiis lirularum lasvibus, seu ab incrementis 

 epidermidis decussatis : operculo tenuissimo, pallido, subplanato, suturis dis- 

 tinctis. Long. -18, long. spir. -07, lat. -2, div. 80°. 



Hab. — Puget Sd., Kennerley. 



? Var. A. subelevaia ; t. elatiore ; colore livido, intensiore ; lirulis vix 

 acutis. 



Ilab. — Puget Sd., Kemierley. Neeah Bay, Swan. 



? Var. /?. obsoleta ; t. ut in 1 \a.r . subelevata ; lirulis evanescentibus ; oper- 

 culo planato, tenuissimo, suturis indistinctis. 



Hab.- — Neeah Bay, Swan. 



? Var. y. conica ; t. valde elevftta ; lirulis acutis, aliis interdum intercalan- 

 tibus ; umbilico parvo. Long. -33, long. spir. -2, lat. -25, div. 58°. 



Hab. — Puget Sd., Kennerley, sp. un. 



The shells above described constitute what might be called a Darwinian 

 group of specific forms. With the exception of the typical shells dredged 

 by Dr. Kennerley, they are all in very bad condition. The Pugetian speci- 

 mens are flattened, with open umbilicus, as might be expected from quiet 

 water. Two specimens, however, form au exact transition to the Neeah Bay 

 shells, of which a fair number (var, a) were sent by Mr. Swan, though worn 

 and generally decorticated. They are more elevated, with fainter sculpture ; 

 and pass, by insensible gradations, into M. tenuisculpta, the two principal 

 spiral lines becoming evanescent, and a few others intercalating. In this 

 state (var. P) the species can only be separated by the operculum, which is 

 pale and thin, and destitute of the strongly expressed rib of the 'Vahlii' 

 group. A third form (var. y) would certainly claim specific rank, but for the 

 intermediate series of a. and p. The diagnostic characters for the whole se- 

 ries are the smooth operculum, the eight narrow riblets round the base, with 

 angular umbilicus and the sharp, narrow, principal riblets above, with wide 

 interspaces, smooth except from the lines of growth, which are principally 



1865.] 




^2 PKOCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Tisible in the epidermis. There may be three (so-called) species in the 

 group, viz. : lirulata, subelevata and conica. 



Margarita inflata. 



M. t. tnmida, tenui, albida, narceo pallide aureo ; anfr. vi. valde inflatis, 

 snturis ad angulum fere rectum impressis ; tota superficie tenuissime spira- 

 liter lirulata; lirulis acutis, baud elevatis ; in spira circ. viii., minoribus saepe 

 intercalantibus ; interstitiis a lineis iacrementi extantibus creberrimis tenu- 

 issime decussatis ; basi obtuse subangulata, striis creberrimis circ. xx. orna- 

 ta ; apertura subquadrata ; columella arcuata ; umbilico infundibuliformi, 

 lagvi, angulato : operculo tenui, planato, suturis distinctis. Long. -44, long, 

 spir. -22, la*. -45, div. 85°. 



JIab. — Puget Sd., Kennerley. Vancouver, Lyall. Neeah Bay, Swan. 



Only two adult specimens of this remarkably elegant species have been 

 seen. It resembles the shell from Greenland called Al. striata, Drod. and Sby., 

 in the British Museum, bat that under the same name from Behring Straits 

 appears distinct. In many respects it is like M. undulata, but differs in the 

 greater swelling of the whorls meeting at a nearly rectangular suture, in the 

 far more delicate sculpture without waves the keeling of the umbilicus and 

 the bend in the pillar which causes a slight spiral hollow inside the umbilical 

 rib. 



Mesalia lacteola, ? n. s. 



M. t. parva, tereti, tenui, albida ; epidermide tenui, flavida, induta ; anfr. 

 X. rotundatis, suturis valde impressis, Isevibus ; costis circ. xii. radiantibus, 

 tumentibns, suturam versus evanidis, interstitiis parvis ; costis spiral'bus ro- 

 tundatis, costas radiantes transenntibus, supra spiram iii. validioribus, aliis 

 interdum intercalantibus ; costulis suturalibus parvis, antice ii. ; basi rotun- 

 data, vix striata ; columella recta, paullum effusa ; labro tenuissimo, parum 

 arcuato. Long. -33, long. spir. -24, lat. -14, div, 30°. 



JIab. — In sinu Pugetiano legit Kennerley. In insula Vancouver legit Forbes. 



Anae " M. lactelce'' varietas insignis, sculpturae indole satis discrepans. 



Mesalia (? lacteola, var.) subplanata. 



}i. i. " M. laeieoJcB" simili ; sed sculptura minus extante anfractibus sirb- 

 planatis ; costis radiantibus pluribus minoribus, costulis spiralibus interdum 

 intercalantibus, aperturam versus saepe obsoletis. 



Jfab. — Ib sinu Pugetiano specimina viventia sed maxime erosa legit Ken- 

 nerley : juxtft " Neeah Bay " legerunt Indianuli, Swannii diseipuli. 



RissoA compacta, n. s. 



R. t. p&tt», rufofusca, baud turrita, compacta, marginibus spirse excnrTA- 

 tis ; anfr. nucleosis iii. globosis, laevibus, apice mamillato ; normalibue iii. 

 8ubplanatis, latis ; lirulis spiralibus obtusis circiter xv., quarum circ. vi. in 

 spira monstrantur, interstitiis vix sequantibus ; lirulis radiantibus circ. axx., 

 peripheriam tenus evanidis, anfractibus primis superantibus, anfractu ultimo 

 saepe obsoletis ; basi rotundata, baud (nisi testa juniore) umbilicata ; aper- 

 tura suborbiculari, peritremati continuo ; operculo tenui, pancispirali, rapid- 

 iBBime augente. Long. -06, long. spir. -04, lat. -045, div. 45°. 



Jiab. — Id Bin« Pugetiano satis abandanter legit Kennerley ; prope Neeah 

 Bay, Swannii diseipuli. 



Drillia incisa, n. s. 



D. t. "Z>. intrmi" forma et indole simili ; sed cinereS, rufofusco cdpiOB^ 

 spiraliter Uneata; anfr. nucleosis majoribus, subplanatis ; anfr. normalibos 

 Vii. sobplauatie, tpiraKter subobsolete coelatis ; sulcis in spira circiter viii., 

 qoaram quarta radiatim sinuata ; canali quoad genus longiore, aperta ; ce- 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



lumella arcuata ; labio distincto ; labro tenui, parum sinuato ; epidermide 

 subfugaci, laminis incrementi subrugosa ; operculo pyriformi, baud angulato, 

 apice antico. Long. 1-13, long. spir. -65, lat. -4, div. 30°. 



Hub. — In sinu Pugetiano legit Kennerley : prope " Neeah Bay"legenint 

 Swannii Indianuli. 



A Drilliis typicis sinu minimo et operculo baud angulato conspicue differt : 

 Clionellae, Grayi, magis convenit. 



Dbillia cancellata, ?n. s. 



D. t. "^. incisie j'uniore" simili, sed omnino albido, sculptura elevata, baud 



coelata epidermide tenui ; anfr. nucleosis ? [detritis ;] normalibus iv. 



planatis, suturis distinctis ; costulis radiantibus circ. xx. angustis, acuti- 

 oribus, et costulis spiralibus subaequantibus, quaruni circiter v. in spira 

 monstrantur, eleganter cancellatis, ad intersectiones subnodulosis ; aperturi 

 obovali, in canalem longiorem, subarcuatam, apertam, producta ; labro acuto, 

 medio producto, ad costulam spiralem ex sutura tertiam eleganter sinuato, 

 sinu altiore. 



Ilab. — In sinu Pugetiano duo specimina legit Kennerley; quorum altero 

 labium subcallosum, altero planatum. 



Mangelia levidensis, n. s. 



M. t. rudi, fusca, elatiore ; anfr. nucleosis iii. subelongatis, vertice baud 

 mamillato ; anfr. normalibus vi. subplanatis, suturis disiinctis, quarum primi 

 costis radiantibus circiter xii. latis, interstiliis parvis, et costulis spiralibus 

 crebrioribus, quarum v. magis insculptte supra costas transeunt, rude ornan- 

 tur ; anfr. ultimis sculptura subobsoleta ; \pertura. elongata, subquadratd in 

 canalem brevem arcufitim producta, intus hepatica ; labro juxta sufuram vix 

 eiaualo ; labio vix conspicuo. Long. -86, long. spir. -53, lat. •29, div. 27°. 



Ilab. — ^In sinu Pugetiano legit Kennerley : prope " Neeah Bay " collegit, 

 per Indianulos, Swan. 



A Mangeliis typicis columella torta differt. 



Bela excuryata, ? n. s. 



B. t. ^' B. Treveylianse" simili, sed alba, curtiore, marginibus spirae valde 



excurvatis ; anfr. nucleosis? [erosis ;] dein iv. normalibus, subplanatis, 



fere rectangulatim prope suturas tabulatis ; costis obtusis radiantibus circiter 

 iviii., medio anfractus et prope suturara obsoletis, postice retrorsum valde 

 arcuatis ; sulcis spiralibus subdistantibus impressis, costas superantibus, in 

 spira circiter v., postice evanidis, antice crebrioribus ; aperatura longius 

 ovali, antice brevissime canaliculate, postice alte sinuato; labro acuto, medio 

 valde excurvato ; columella regione labii eroso. Long. -28, long. spir. -IS, 

 lat. -15, div. 55°. 



Uah. — In sinu Pugetiano ante decessum prematuram specimen unicum pis- 

 cavit Keanerky, eheu deploratus ! 



EULIMA MICANS, ? n. 3. 



E. t. " E. poliCce" simillima, sed minora ; anfr. nucleosis stylinis, apice sub- 

 decliviter sito ; anfr. normalibus xii. omnino planatis, maxime nitentibuF, 

 suturis nullis ; albida, rosaceo tincta ; basi arcuatim rotundata ; apertnrii 

 ovali ; labro postice, et paulhim antice sinuato, calloso ; labio calloso ; co- 

 lumella, vix torta. Long. -52, long, sjjir. -3(3, lat. -16, div. 25°. 



Ilab. — In sinu Pugetiano specimen juniore legit Kennerley. Juxta Neeah 

 Bay idem legerunt iSwannii Indianuli. Plurimos adultos viventes inter S. 

 Pedronenn et S. Diegonem, in insula quoque Catalinara piscavit Cooper. 



An Eu. politte varietas Pacifica ? 



1865.] 




Qi PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



OCINEBRA INTERF0S3A. 



0. t. satis elougata, purpureo-fusca ; anfr. nucleosis ii., l«vibus, elongatis ; 

 anfr. normalibus v. coavexi3,suturis valde impressis ; costis radiaatibus sub- 

 varicosis circ. xi., et spiralibus subaequantibus, quarum iii.-v. in spira raon- 

 strantur, decussata ; iaterstitiis altis, quadratis, laminulis iacrementi, et in- 

 terdum costulis spiralibus obtusis intercalantibus, saepe ornatis ; apertura 

 ovata, labro (t. adulta) intus dentato ; canali satis longa, saspius clausa. 

 Long. -85, long. spir. -4, lat. -45, div. 60°. 



Hab. — Neeah Bay, Swan: Vancouver, Lord, (named Fusus orphans, as of 

 Gld. in Br. Mus.) 



Variat. : t. atropurpured ; costis spiralibus distantibus, in spira duabus, 

 foveis majoribus. Variat-quoque t. albido zonata. 



? Chrysodomus rectirostris, n. s. 



? Chr. t. parva, albida, carneo maculata, gracili epidermide tenui, cornea 

 induta ; anfr. nucleosis ? . . . [decoUatis ;] anfr. normalibus vi. planatis, su- 

 turis parum distinctis ; adolescente, costulis radiantibus circiter xiv. latis, 

 hand expressis, adulta obsoletis ; lineis spiralibus baud conspicuis ; aperturd 

 eloncato-pyriformi, in canalem valde productum, apertum, rectum, subito 

 attenuata ; labro acuto, parum arcuato, baud sinuato ; labio inconspicuo. 

 Long. -88, long. spir. -43, lat. -32, div. 33°. 



jfab — In sinu Pugetiano, specimen unicum legit Kennerley. 



Aspectu Belam, forma Perronam, nisi labro baud sinuato, commemorat : 

 cbaracteribus plurimis subgeneri Siphoni convenit. 



Synopsis of tlio Genus POMOXYS, Eaf. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



In order to dissipate part of the confusion into which the nomenclature of 

 this genus has fallen, and to make known several new species, the present 

 article is submitted. 



Genus POMOXYS, (Raf.) 

 I. Caudal peduncle with its height in front (-14) greater 

 than its length (-11 — 12) ; anal fin extending back- 

 wards nearly to base of caudal. P. brevicauda. 

 IL Caudal peduncle longer (-13— -Lj) than high (-11— -13) ; 

 anal fin not passing beyond the second third of pe- 

 duncle. 

 Height exceeding three-tenths (-31) of length ; head less 



than three-tenths (-24). P. intermedins. 



Height less than averaging three-tenths ('29) of length, 

 and scarcely longer than head. 

 Caudal peduncle slender (-15 long, '11^ high). 

 First dorsal spine less than half ('02^) an 

 eye's diameter. P. storerins. 



Caudal peduncle stout, little longer than high ('13^ 

 long, '13 high). First dorsal spine equal to 

 two-thirds (04^) of an eye's diameter. P. protacanthns. 



PoMOXYS BREVICAUDA, Gill. 



D. VI. 15. A. VI. 17. P. 15. 



6 

 Scales (12-29-) 42 _.* 

 14 



* The twelfth ami twentv-ninth scales of the lateral line, respectively, correspond with the 

 Tertical of the anterior and posterior ends of the dorsal fin. The total number of acales through 

 which the lateral line runs, exclusive of those on the caudal fin, w forty-two. At the region of great> 

 est height, there are six rows »bove and fourteen helow the laleial line. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 65 



This species is readily distinguished by its abbreviated caudal peduncle and 

 the consequent extension of the anal fin backwards nearly to its end. The 

 back is also considerably more gibbous and decurved than that of any con- 

 gener. 



4564. North Grand River, Livingston Co., Mo. Dr. Hoy. 



POMOXT8 INTEKMEDIDS Gill. 



D. VI. 15. A. VI. 17. 

 6 

 Scales (12—31—) 45 — . 



14 

 This species distinguished by its comparatively longer caudal peduncle and 

 the height of the body, as well as by the smaller size of the scales. 



POMOXTS STOBEBICS Gill. 



fPomoxis annularis Raf. ? Ag. 



Cichla storeria Kirtland, MSS. 



Centrarchus hexacanthus Cuv, et Val., fide Storer (neo Cut', et Val.) 



Pomoxis nitidus Girard. 



Centrarchus nitidus Giinther. 



D. VI. 15. A. VI. 17. P. 15. 

 6 



Scales (14— 30— ) 43—. 

 14 



The Pomoxys storerius is remarkable among all its known congeners on ac- 

 count of the slender caudal peduncle. 



The species has been quite unfortunate in its nomenclature. It is possible 

 that it is the species described and figured (I) by Rafinesque, but it would be 

 an act of injustice to any other naturalist to suppose that his figure could so 

 disagree with nature as does that of Rafinesque with the species in question. 

 Agassiz has adopted Rafinesque's name for a species found in the Tennessee 

 River,* and, while he has remarked that it does not have the caudal ring 

 mentioned by that author, has not alluded to any other disagreement with 

 the fiah of Rafinesque ; the normal inaccuracy of that man is, however, so 

 well known, that Agassiz has doubtless considered it superfluous to allude to 

 any such discrepancies, and, consequently nothing may be predicated from 

 his silence on that subject. 



The species was first intelligibly noticed by Dr. Kirtland ; in the "Report 

 on the Zoology of Ohio," p. 191, he introduced it under the name Cichla Sto- 

 reria. Being subsequently informed by Dr. Storer " that Cuvier had pre- 

 viously described it in the third volume of his " Histoire Naturelle des Pois- 

 sons," from specimens taken by Lesueur in the river Wabash, " he referred 

 it to the latter species, called Centrarchus hexacanthus Val. The fishes of 

 Kirtland and the French naturalists, not only belong to diflFerent species, but 

 even to different genera. The name Cichla Storeria must therefore be ac- 

 cepted as the specific appellation of the species described by Kirtland, if Ra- 

 finesque's is deemed unworthy of adoption. 



Subsequently, the species was described and figured by Girard under the 

 new name of Pomoxis nitida, while the name of Kirtland was retained as a 

 synonym of the Centrarchus hexacanthus, which was erroneously called Povioxin 

 sparoides, and the name of Rafinesque was preserved for a third nominal 

 spiecies. 



* Agassii remarks, that the species of the Tennessee Uiver ''agrees fully with the desi-ription 

 given by KuGnesque of his Pbmoxis annularis, with the sole exceptinn of ii golden ring at tht bax« 

 of tht titil, which may be faded io the specimens sent by Dr. Newman from Huntsville;" but ttli* 

 agreement surely can gcarcwly esteud tu the figure, which remaius uoBi^ticed by Agatisiz. 



1865.] 5 




66 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



POMOXYS PROTACANTHUS Gill. 



D. VI. 15. A. VI. 17. 

 6 

 Scales (13—30—) 43 —. 

 14 

 The Pomoxys protacanthus may be at once distinguished among the other 

 species liere enumerated by the comparative elongation of the anterior dorsal 

 and anal spines. A single specimen (4565), from Tarboro, North Carolina, 

 is in the Smithsonian collection, and has no opercular spot. The absence of 

 this latter furnishes another specific character, unless it has been obliterated 

 by the alcohol. 



The following table gives the relative proportions of the several species : 



4564 4563 4565 



Extreme length 8^ 6^ 6| 6 



Body— Greatest height 35 31 29 29 



Heightof tail behind anal fin 14 12 11^ 13 



Least height of tail 11^ 10 9^ 10 



Length of tail 11^ 13 15 13| 



Head-Greatest length 31 29 29 28 



Height at pupil 15^ 14 14 15 



Length of snout 6J 6 6 6J 



Orbit — Diameter 5J 6 6 6 



Dorsal— Length of base 27 25 24 24 



Height at first spine 3 2.} 2^ 4J 



Height at last spine 11^ 13^ 14 12 



Height at longest ray 16 16 16 



Anal — Height at first spine 4 2^ 2^ 3} 



Height at last spine 9^ 12 11 10 



Caudal— Length of middle rays 17 18 17 19^ 



Length of external rays 21 22 22 24 



Pectoral— Length 16J 17 17 16 



Ventral— Length 15 15 15 14 



On the Genas CAUL0LATILT7S, 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



CAULOLATILUS Gill. 



=^CaAilolatilus Gill, Proc. Academy of Natural Sciences, of Philadelphia, 1862, 

 p. 340. 



Dekaya Cooper, Proc. California Academy of Natural Sciences, iii. p. 70, 1864. 

 Latilus sp. Citv. et Val. 



Bodjj much compressed, elongated, with the height nearly uniform to the 

 anus ; tlience gradually decreasing to the caudal peduncle, which is moderately 

 narrowed. 



Scales small, oblong, with a rather large central, minutely granular and 

 eitriate Area, from the posterior portion of which the rhipidal ridges radiate : 

 and with a wiiie muricated posterior border ; the exposed surfaces are vertical, 

 especially near the head. 



Ltiterd line indistinct, parallel with the back ; median on the caajial 

 peduncle. 



Head compressed, scarcely oblong, with the profile boldly decurved, the 

 forehead flattened. Forehead behind cheeks and opercula, except interoper- 

 culum, covered with ctenoid scales like those of the body. Eyes subcircular, 

 large. 'Preorbilal bone elongated rhomboid, with the height lass than the di- 



[ April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



ameter of the eye ; cheeks longer than high. Nos/rils approximated, simple. 

 Preoperculiim esinuate, pectinated. Operculum with a blunt, bony projection 

 behind. Subopercuhim narrow. 



Mouth moderate, with the cleft little oblique. Jaws even ; svpramaxillariex 

 nearly straight behind, and subtruncated at end. Lips thick, the lower attached 

 by a fraenum in front. 



Teeth on the jaws alone, in a broad, villiform band in front, preceded by a 

 row of larger acute ones continued to the corners of the mouth ; the hindmost 

 teeth enlarged canines directed forwards. 



BraiicMosteyal rays six. (Branchial membrane well developed, and free 

 below.) 



Dorsal Jin with seven or eight graduated, pungent spines, and rather nu- 

 merous (22 — 27) uniform branched rays ; antepenultimate normally longest. 

 Anal similar to the soft dorsal, armed with one or two pungent spines ; first 

 spine, when present, extremely small. 



Caudal Jin emarginated, with its lobes pointed. 



Pectoral Jins well developed, longer than the ventrals. 



Ventrals thoracic or subbrachial, with the spine slender but acute, and with 

 second ray longest. 



Type Caulolatilus chrysops Gill. 



The genus Caulolatilus is widely separated from Latilux by the form of the 

 body, structure of the scales and especially by the form of the head and the 

 structure of the fins. It is also related to Prolntilus* but is readily distin- 

 guished by the general form, the form of the head, the thoracic position of 

 the ventral fins, as well as the number of dorsal spines and form of the cau- 

 dal fin. 



Caulolatilus was first separated from Latilus in an article entitled " Remarks 

 on the relations of the genera, and other groups of Cuban Fishes ;" it was 

 said to be distinguished by its form and the structure of the fins, and was 

 founded for the reception of the Latilus chrysops C. et V. 



Subsequently Dr. Cooper described as a new generic type allied to Fletero- 

 gnathodon Blkr., a Californian species of the same genus, and considered it "to 

 be a very aberrant form of the Percoid family, having many characters of 

 other orders. 



Four species of the genus are known to me ; their relations and differential 

 characters may be expressed by the following scheme : 



I. D. vii (-viii.) 24. A. i. (ii.)22.t Profile quadrantiform. C. chrysops. 



C. afiEinis. 



II. D. viii. 25—26. A. ii. 25—26. Profile less decurved, the 



snout being produced. 



a.. Dorsal spines behind longer than the space between the 

 fin and lateral line ; })ectoral fin equal to distance 

 from snout to middle of operculum C. Inomalus. 



fi- Dorsal spines behind about equal to space between fin 

 and lateral line ; pectoral fin about three-fourths the 

 length of the head (.Jenyus.) C. princeps. 



Catlolatilus chrysops. 



Latilus chrysops C. et V., ix. 496 ; Guict., in Saijra., tab. 2, f. 1 ; Gthr., ii. 

 253. 



*Prohtilus Gill, (type Latilus Jugtdaris Ciiv., Val.,) is distinguished by iU general form. a« 

 well a'f the form of the head, scaly fonjhead and approximated eyes ; few (4) dorsal spines, entire 

 caudal and sulijugiilar ventrals. 



t My own enumoration of the dorsal and aual rav exactly ooincides with Ouuther's; Cuvier s»- 

 signR D. viii. 24. A. ii. 22. I cannot discover the small npinc in front of the aunl oui-, aad tbire 

 are certainly only seven dorsal spines, 



1865.] 




68 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Caulolatilua chrysops Gill, Phil. 1862, 340. 

 Sab. — West Indies. 

 D. vii. (-viii.) 24. A. i. (-ii.) 22. C. v. 1, 7, 6, 1, v. P. 18. V. I. 5. 



CaCLOLATILFS AITINIS Gill. 



In a young specimen the following peculiarities are exhibited : 



The profile describes the outline of a quadrant, and in front is almost Ter- 

 tical. The greatest height is contained less than four times ("27) in the 

 length, exclusive of caudal ; that of the caudal peduncle about nine times. 

 The head forms more than three-tenths of the length, while its height 

 bears to its length the proportion of 22J : 31. The diameter of the eye equals 

 almost half the height of the head. The preorbital is very narrow. The 

 teeth of the preoperculum are strong and distant, and those of the middle di- 

 rected obliquely upwards. The sixth dorsal spine equals a ninth of the 

 length. The anus is behind the middle of the length. The caudal rather ex- 

 ceeds the height of the head. The pectoral equals a fifth of the length ; the 

 ventral is shorter ('18,) and is inserted beneath the base of the pectoral, its 

 »pine being at the vertical of the upper axil. 



D. vii. 25. A. ii. 22. P. 18. 



The color is reddish brown on the head and back, lighter on the sides. A 

 very distinct blackish spot is present above the axilla of the pectoral. 



This species is very closely related to C. chrysops, but the single individual 

 which is a young one about three inches long, differs from adults of the latter, 

 of which I have seen none less than fifteen inches long, by the greater height 

 of the spinous dorsal and the proportions of the other fins, and the situation 

 of the ventrals, strongly serrated preoperculum, as well as as the large eyes 

 and narrow preorbital. The last two characteristics are doubtless those of 

 youth. The value of the others yet remains to be ascertained, but it is pro- 

 bable that they will be found to be specific, although, perhaps, slightly modi- 

 fied with age. The species has been known to me for three years, but I have 

 felt reluctant to describe from so small a specimen. The specimen was ob- 

 tained by Mr. Xantus at Cape St. Lucas. 



CACLOLATILUS ANOHALPg. 



Dekaya anomala Cooper, Proc. California Academy Natural Sciences, vol. ill. 

 p. 71, fig. 17, 1864. 



Hab. — Catalina Island, California. 



D. viii. 25. A. ii. 25. P. 18. 



Sq. 135— 140^1 pm. 



CauJolatilvs anomalus is very closely related to the C. princeps of the Gala- 

 pagos Archipelago, but appears to differ in the more elongated spines of the 

 dorsal fin, as well as the longer pectoral and ventral fins. A critical compari- 

 son of fresh or wet specimens of both species is, however, requisite not only 

 to verify the diflferences referred to, but to ascertain the other differential 

 characters. It is scarcely probable that the two forms are co-specific, but at 

 the same time we must remember that at least one species is common to 

 Lower California and the Galapagos Islands. 



The type specimen of C. anomalus was kindly forwarded for examination 

 by Dr. Cooper, the discoverer. It is an adult, and belongs to the collection 

 of the Geological Survey of the State of California. 



Caulolatilus princeps. 



Latilus princeps Jenyns, Fishes Beagle, 52, pi. 11. Gthr., ii. 253. 

 Hab. — Galapagos Islands (Chatham Island.) 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



Oa ths Cranial Characteristics of 6ADUS PKOXIMUS Grd. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



While engaged in the investigation of the comparative anatomy of the 

 Gadoids and allied families, my attention was arrested by the very distinctive 

 characters exhibited by the Californian Gadoid named by Girard Gadus prox- 

 imus or Morrhua proxima. The title of that form to generic separation from 

 the typical Gadi, is fully confirmed. I may remark, that I had long distrusted 

 its pertinence to Gadus on account of its small size, but the few and trivial 

 outward peculiarities exhibited by it, almost forbade a separation, until more 

 should be known concerning its organization. 



The affinities of the new genus are, perhaps, rather with Brachygadas than 

 Gadus itself; but the form of the head sufficiently distinguishes it from thai 

 type. The distinctive external characters are the angular form of the fins, 

 especially of the first dorsal, the small size and the immaculate body. All 

 the osteological characters, herewith given, are contrasted with those of 

 Gadus, and the peculiarities are indicated by the italicized portions. 



If, as I suspect, the Gadas pyyvuzus of Pallas belongs to Boreogadus, as 

 restricted by myself, at least three genera of Gadince are represented along 

 the western American coast. 



MICROGADUS Gill. 



The cranium is proportionally broader towards the front and less flattened, 

 while the brain case is flattened below, decidedly swollen laterally and on each, 

 side of a depressed sphenoidal groove, and has an ovate cordiform shape. 

 The paroccipital or epiotic is not produced into an angle behind, but is ob- 

 tusely rounded, and its posterior or outwardly descending ridge blunt. The pe- 

 trosal or opisthotic is well developed, oblong, and with its re-entering angle 

 high up, and, on a line with it, the surface is divided into two parts ; an upper 

 narrow and flattened one, and a lower expanded one, much swollen ; the 

 alisphenoid or pro-otic is oblong, acutely emarginated in front, swollen from 

 the region of the high anterior sinus, and above it little produced forwards. 

 The greaty"ro«^a/ is little longer than broad, with supraoccipital crest continued 

 only along its posterior third, but an anterior low crest continued forwards on 

 the bone, and near the front expanded upwards, and with the expanded por- 

 tion behind dividing into narrow lateral wings ; the lateral tectiform ridges of 

 the frontal are continued forwards and curved outwards towards the antero- 

 lateral angles. The anterior frontals are mostly covered in front by the great 

 frontal, and are much developed in the direction of the ant ero-lateral angles ; 

 the inferior expanded axillar portion being very narrow. The nasal has a 

 rounded ridge in front continued well below, and its posterior crest is laminar 

 and trenchant. 



The rest of the bones offer less decided peculiarities, and, therefore, their 

 immediate consideration is less requisite. 



Gadus tomcodus Mitchill exhibits similar modifications of the cranium, and 

 should be approximated to G. proximus. 



Rote on several Genera of CTFRINOIDS. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



As considerable misapprehension appears to have prevailed regarding several 

 genera of Cyprinoids, established for fo uis.characteristic of the Pacific slope of 

 North America by Girard, dun, perhaps, to the vague or erroneous ideas enter- 

 tained by that gentleman himself, it may be advisable to give the partial 

 results of a renewed examination. 



1865.] 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The genera Lavinia, Siboma, Algansea, Tigoma, Cheonda, Gila, Ptycho- 

 chilus and Mylochilus, are closely related to each other, and cannot be dis- 

 tributed among different subfamilies, as has been attempted. Indeed, some 

 of the genera so separated are so intimately allied, that their claims to generic 

 distinction are extremely doubtful. Siboma appears to be nearly allied to 

 Lavinia, and includes only the <S. crassicauda, the S. atraria belonging rather 

 to Algansea. Algansea itself and Tigoma are scarcely distinguishable, they 

 differing only in the pharyngeal teeth, — Algaji^ea having teeth 5—5, increas- 

 ing upwards, while Tigoma has, normally, 2 | 5 — 5 | 2 : both groups have 

 narrow suborbitals. Cheonda should be restricted to C. Cooperi. The dif- 

 ference between C. caerulea and species of Tigoma are not evident. Gila and 

 Ptychochilu^ both require revision. Mj/locliiltis and Mijlopharodon do not dif- 

 fer generically, wherefore the former name alone can be retained. The genus 

 ^c-oc/uVws of Agassiz, referred to Z>ai)tnm by Girard, has no affinity to that 

 group, being nearly related to Chondrostoma, as shown by Agassiz, who has 

 well described its peculiarities, while Lavinia as well as Tigoma, Algansea, 

 &o., are closely relate! to the European Leucisci. As I propose, on another 

 occasion, to give the full generic characters, as well as anatomy of the genera 

 of Western American Cyprinoids, I defer till then further consideration of 

 their affinities. 



Observations on the EOCENE LIGNITE FOBMATION of the United States. 

 BY T. A. CONRAD. 



OLDER EOCENE OR LONDON CLAY. 

 Lignite Epoch. 



Some years ago I visited a marl deposit near Long Branch, Monmouth Co., 

 New Jersey, in which casts of a few shells presented an eocene character. 

 Observing in Vanuxem's cabinet a specimen of what is now known to be 

 Aturia ziczac, I described it in the Journal of the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences, vol. i. 2d series, p. 129, and referred the marl, principally on account 

 of the presence of this shell, to the eocene era. I also described an imperfect 

 cast of the same species as Nautilus angustatus, in Dana's Report on the Ge- 

 ology of the Exploring Expedition, which was found at Astoria in Oregon, in 

 company with many shells which I mistook for miocene forms ; but a more 

 extended acquaintance with eocene types shows their older tertiary relations, 

 and their matrix to be synchronous with the Loudon Clay of Sheppey, High- 

 gate and Brauklesham. Professor Cook has lately sent me a box of specimens 

 of similar age from Shark River, Monmouth Co., N. Jersey, collected by Dr. 

 Kneiskern. In company with Aturia ziczac there are imperfect specimens of 

 Nautilus Lamarckii, Deshayes, another older eocene form of the Paris basin 

 and of Belgium. Fruits also occur in this bed, referrible to the genera Nipa- 

 dites and Alimosites, showing the tropical or semitropical climate of the era, 

 and giving evidence of the intimate relations of the deposit to the Brandon 

 and Mississippi Lignite strata. Indeed, it seems clear that this Shark River 

 marl was the bed of the oldest eocene ocean, and that the flora of the Bran- 

 don and Soutliern tertiary epoch flourished at the same time. The local, 

 circumscribed character of the Brandon Lignite is attributed by Prof. Lesley 

 to its having filled a deep depression, thus escaping the denuding forces 

 which swept all traces of it away over a wide region that it once covered. 

 The locality at Mont Alto, near Chambersburg, described by Prof. Lesley, is 

 doubtless a locally preserved fragment of a vast formation once deposited 

 over tlie Appalachian slope to the very base of the mountain range, and oc- 

 cupying a large space in South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi, 

 and in fact, extending to the Pacific as far north as Vancouver's Island. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 71 



Dana's map of the cretaceous epoch gives a cteneral view of the United States 

 at this time, supposing what was then ocean had become land and fresh water. 



It is probable that the estuary deposits of Uppt^r Missouri are the base of 

 the older eocene, and the fresh-water shells are the earliest tertiary types of 

 this continent. The species of Vivipara resemble the eocene forms of the 

 Paris basin. According to Meek and Hayden these beds are more than 2000 

 feet thick. 



Vanusem was the first geologist who stated that a lignite bed is situated 

 in South Carolina between the cretaceous and eocene strata, and Tuomey has 

 since described several localities in that State and on« in Clark Co., Alabama, 

 represented by No. 6 of his Bashia Creek section ; and No. 2 of the section 

 represents the Marlborough and Buhrstone group, or second stage of the 

 eocene. In general, some doubt rests upon the identity of species by Tuomey, 

 but the following list of shells contained in No. 2 is copied, with emendations, 

 from his Report : Ostrea Carolincnsis, Con., Venericardia phinicosta, Proto- 

 cardia Virginiana ? Con., Volutilithes Taomeyi, Con. This bed represents the 

 dark-colored loose sand of Piscataway, over which and next in succession 

 lies the Marlborough rock, which corresponds to the " great Carolinian bed" 

 of Ruffin, and the "calcareous strata of the Charleston basin" of Tuomey. 

 The sand bed and condition of its fossils, as well as the similarity of some of 

 its species, reminds us of the Bracklesham Bay locality in England, and the 

 superimposed rock of the Bognor beds. 



Although the Aturia zlczac is the only fossil of Oregon known to be identi- 

 cal with the New .Jersey eocene, the vast distance between tlie localities will 

 account for the variation ; for the Continent was then as wide as from the 

 Appalachian to the Rocky mountains, and seems to have been intersected by 

 many rivers and fresh-water lakes, which have left an abundance of shells 

 and mammalian remains entormbed in the strata deposited by their waters. 

 The Brandon fruits described by Hitchcock are all different from those of 

 Shark River, but the conditions under which they flourished may account for 

 this variation. They probably grew on high land, at some distance from the 

 coast, whilst the station of the others was on low land along the shore, where 

 Palms and Acacias scattered their fruit within reach of currents which swept 

 them into the sea. 



At present, the marine beds of this era are found to lie close to the Atlantic, 

 and in Oregon they skirt the shore ; but estuary deposits were observed bv 

 Meek and Hayden in Upper Missouri. The Shark River marl is an indurated 

 clay, with disseminated grains of green sand, which are often smooth and 

 shining, and the shells are all in the form of casts, which are distorted more 

 or less. Portions of this clay are indurated, making it as difficult to break 

 as the hardest limestone. Its thickness is yet unknown. The Aturia of this 

 locality is discoid, which is the result of pressure, whilst the Oregon forms 

 are broader, and one specimen approximates the normal form of the Eu- 

 ropean shell. 



Professor Harper describes a deposit on Chickasawhay River, Mississippi, 

 which also is of similar geological age. "The Nipadites and Cj/cadltes mixed 

 with coniferous trees, and even oaks.'' "Slumps are seen rooted in tlie 

 ground, as smooth and even as if not cut with an axe, but sawed with a sharp 

 saw." " A little higher up, on the Chickasawhay River, occurs the most 

 southern outcrop of the large eocene marl stratum. Above the marl lies a 

 stratum of hard limestone, which contains abundance of an Ostrea of large 

 size." In this description I recognize the strata on Savannah River, wliere 

 the lignite is overlaid by the " great Carolinian limestone" group, and suc- 

 ceeded by the Ostrea Georgiana, which is found as far west as Capo St. Lucas 

 in Lower California. 



The lignite bed underlies the bluff at Vicksburg, where we find^l. lignite ; 

 2. ferruginous rock, with Odtrea Georgiana, Conrad ; 3. St. Stephen's Hme- 



1865.] 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



stone, or Orbitolite limestone, eighty feet ; 4. Vicksburg group, with a new 

 species of Orbitolite, — N. supera, Conrad. 



This formation appears at Cape Sable, near Annapolis, where, at about the 

 water level, "under a stratum of sand, and resting upon an impermeable 

 crust of ferruginous sandstone, lies imbedded in a layer of almost pure alu- 

 mine, a forest of pine trees, thrown down by some ancient convulsion. The 

 crust which forms the base of this aluminous layer is a little below the level 

 of low tides and is of considerable hardness. The imbedded pines are con- 

 verted into lignites more or less impregnated with sulphuret of iron. The 

 central parts are generally transformed into pure metallic sulphuret, some- 

 times exhibiting in the hollow parts octohedral crystals of a yellowish metal- 

 lic lustre and great hardness. The more remote the ligneous layers from the 

 centre, the less they are saturated with sulphuret of iron. The external rays, 

 as well as the cortical layers, are generally pure lignite, some compact and 

 black, others retaining the color and friability of rotten wood. In some in- 

 stances their texture seems to have suffered but little alteration : the central 

 system, concentric rays, the bark and knots being perfectly discernible ; even 

 fruits are occasionally found in a pretty good state of preservation as to 

 form."* The lignite is correctly placed in Morton's diagram as overlying 

 the secondary marls. In Morton's paper the first published notice of the for- 

 mation appeared, drawn up from the notes of Lardner Vanuxem, who was 

 familiar with the strata in South Carolina. 



Deshayes states that he has found no species of organic remains common 

 to cretaceous and eocene strata in Europe or Asia, and I have no doubt that 

 the destruction of life was total over the whole surface of the globe at the 

 close of the cretaceous era. Deshayes, indeed, affirms that life has been five 

 times destroyed and renewed in the past history of the earth. When we find 

 evidence of surprising changes of level in the eocene period, the limited na- 

 ture of a mixed fauna is remarkable, for we would expect to find it much 

 more extensive at the base of the eocene. The bed of the Atlantic along the 

 coast of the United States, from Cape May to the Gulf of Mexico, contains a 

 mixture of recent and miocene shells, which, if elevated above the sea level 

 would present a group of shells consisting of recent and extinct species, so like 

 in preservation that the fossil could not be distinguished from the recent forms, 

 except by one conversant with all the miocene shells. 



Deshayes affirms of the Maestrich beds, " that there has been an accidental 

 mixture of cretaceous and eocene ; a degradation of a stratum of fossilliferous 

 marl diluted in the bed of the'tertiary sea at the time of the first deposit. 

 The bed of the ocean, under our own eyes, shows an accidental mixture of 

 this nature." 



The Wilmington rock proves conclusively that this was the case in North 

 Carolina. Eocene and cretaceous fossils are there mingled in a breccia. When 

 I first saw this rock in 1832, no fracture or excavation revealed its true cha- 

 racter ; but the external resemblance to the Timber Creek limestone of New 

 Jersey, with its corallines, was striking. The mixture of secondary and 

 tertiary species in this breccia, shows tuat a disturbance occurred in the bed 

 of the eocene ocean, which evidently, from Tuomey's account, extended into 

 South Carolina. No one, I suppose, will tell us that the Venericardia plani- 

 co^ta existed in the cretaceous period, yet countless thousands may be ob- 

 served at the base of the eocene. It is true that in Europe a series of strata, 

 termed Upper and Lower Landenien and Heersien, are said to intervene be- 

 tween the chalk and eocene ; but one of the characteristic fossils of the Upper 

 Landenien occurs in the Shark River beds, — the Cyjirina Morrissi, of Sowerby. 

 It is therefore probable that the former system is merely an extension of the 

 London Clay. Certainly, in the United States, there is no such system as the 



• Durand, Journ. Phila. College of Pharmasy, v. 12, 1834. 



[April, 




NATtJBAL SCIENCES OF PHILAliiELPHlA. V3 



Heersien, whilst Lrell found, in the Belgium Lower Landenien grey marl, a 

 perfect specimen of the Terehratulina gracilis, — a well known chalk fossil, — 

 together with Ostrea (Eiogyra) lateralis, Nyst. Lyell remarks, that the 

 Lower Landenien, at Folx les Caves, rests on the Maestrich chalk. 



There is an extensive bed ot" lignite in Europe of eocene age, which Des- 

 hayes says forms a well-determined horizon with the long series of " sables In- 

 ferieures." " Above the lignite appears a bed of fresh-water and marine shells, 

 the horizon of which I believe to be the same as the lignite formation of the 

 United States. They reveal a singular state of the globe at the commencement 

 of the tertiary period, presenting a vrfst level region covered by a dense forest, 

 in which palms and oaks grew side by side, interspersed with lakes and 

 rivers and long shallow bays of salt water penetrating to the interior of the 

 continents. This state of the globe was exhibited in Europe and America at 

 the same time, and the land was little elevated above the sea level, except 

 that in America the Appalachian and Rocky mountain ranges stood out from 

 the vast plain. 



The Shark River fossils are few in number of species, and generally im- 

 perfect casts, with small chalky portions of the shell occasionally remaining. 

 A few of the bivalves have connected valves. About twenty-five species of 

 shells and plants have been collected, of which I think six shells are identi- 

 cal with species of the London Clay and one of the Plastic Clay, Cyprina 

 Morrisii. 



Catalogue of Shells of Shark River, 



Mactra . Aturia ziczac, Sowerhy. 



Cyprina Morrissii. Nautilus Lamarckii, Desk. 



Dione . Priscofusus , Con. 



YoMia protexta, C. Volutilithes mutata, Desk. 



Axinsea Surculi annosa. Con. 



Crassatella Sycotopus Smithii, Sowerhy. 



Venericardia perantiquua Con. Onustus extensus, Soiuerhy. 



Avicula annosa, Con. Hippochrenes columbaria ? Defrance. 



Pinna . Acteonema prisca, Con. 



Pecten . Architectonica • 



Ostrea . Pleurotomaria perlata, Con. 



Fish. 

 Coelorhynchua rectus, Agassiz. 



Catalogue of the EOCENE ANNTILATA, FOEAMINIFERA, ECHINODEEMATA 

 and CIRBIPEDIA of the TTnited States. 



BY T. A. CONRAD. • 



Annulata. 

 SERPULA, Lin. 

 S. ornata, Lea, Cont, to Geol. 37, 1, .5. CXsth. 

 S. squamulosa, C. J. A. N. S., vii, 149. Claib. 



SPIRORBIS, Daudin. 

 S. tubanella, Lea, Cont. to Geol. 3(5, 1, 4. Claib. 



DITRUPA, Berkeley, 

 D. snbcoarctata, Gabb., J. A. N. S., 2d series, 386, 67, 47. Texas. 



Fora mini f era. 

 TRILOCULINA, D'Orbigny. 

 U. lineata, C, n. s. 



1865.] 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



CRISTELLARIA, D'Orbigny. 

 C. ? rotella, C, Amer. Jonrn. Science, ii., 2d series, 399, f. 4. Florida. 

 Cristellaria ? rotella, D'Orbignj, Prodroinus, ii. 406, 1300. 



NEMOPHORA, Conrad. 

 N. Floridana, (Nummulites) C, Amer. Journ. Sci., ii., 2d series, 399, f. 3. 

 Florida. 

 Cristellaria ?Floridana, D'Orbigny, Prodromus, ii. 406, 1301. 



ORBITOLITES, Lam. 

 0. (Nummulites) Mantelli, Morton, Org. Rem. Cretac. Group, 45, 5, 9. St. 

 Stephens, Ala., S. C, Miss. 

 Orbiioides Mantelli, D'Orbig. , Prodromus, ii. 406. 

 0. supera, C* Vicksburg, Miss. 



Echinodermata. 



ECHINID^. 



SISMONDIA, Desor. 



S. alta, C, Proc. A. N. S., 1S65, N. C. Emmons, Geol. N. C, 308, 247, 8. 



S. crustuloides, (Scutella) Morton, Org. Rem. Cretac. Group, 77, 15, 10. S. C. 



Desor , Synop. des Echin. 227. 

 S. Lyelli, (Scutella) C, Journ. A. N. S., vii. 152, Ala. Desor., Synop. des 



Echin. 225. 

 S. marginalis, C, Proc. A. N. S., 1865, near Charleston, S. C. 

 S. pileus-sinensis, (Scutella) Ravenel., Proceed. A. N. S. ii. 97. S. C. 

 S. Plana, C. S. C. 



MORTONIA, Desor. 

 M. Rogersi, (Scutella) Morton, Org. Rem. Cretac. Group, 77, 13, 3. Alabama. 

 Desor., Syn. des Echin. 231. Clark Co., Ala. 

 Laganum Rogersi, Agass., Catal. Syst. 6. 

 M. Jonesii, (Scutella) Forbes, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, i. 440. Georgia. 



MELLITA, Klein. 

 M. Caroliniana, (Scutella), Ravenel, Proc. A. N. S. 1, 81. S. C. 



MACROPHORA, Conrad. 

 M. macrophora, (Scutella), Ravenel, Proceed. A. N. S. 1, 81. S. C. 

 M. Raveneli, C. S. C. 



Smaller than the preceding, suborbicular, with an obtusely ovate perfora- 

 tion. 



PYRGORHYNCUS, Agass. 

 P. Gouldii, Bouve, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., ii. 192, and iv. 2. Desor., 

 Synop. des Echin. 299. Georgia. 

 Nuc. Mortoni, Conrad, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., ii. series, 40. 



' CGELOPLEURDS, Agass. 

 C. depressus, C, n. s. S. C. 



C. infulatus (Echinus) Morton, Org. Rem. of Cretac. Group, 75, 10, 7. Desor., 

 Syn. des Echin. 98, S. C. 



CLYPEASTER, Lam. 

 C. Jonesii, (Scutella) Forbes, Quart. Journ. Geol., i. 440. Desor., Syn. des 

 Echin. 243. Georgia. 



* Smaller than the preceding and comp •ratively thicker, without the raised central point. Di- 

 ameter 13— iO inch. This species is readily distinguished by the convex centre, and is limited t) 

 the Oligocene strata. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 75 



ECHINIANTHUS, Breynius. 

 E. Mortonis, (Pyrgorhyncus) Mich. Rev. et Mag. do Zool., 1850, 2. Desor., 

 Synop. des Echin. 295. Miss. 



CASSIDULUS, Lam. 

 C. amygdala? Desor., Synop. des Echin. Ixv. 

 C. Conradi, (Catopygus) Couper, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., iv. 2d series, 39, 1, 



9. Georgia. 

 C. Lyelli, (Nucbolites) Con., Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., ii. 2d series, 40, 1, 14, 

 Georgia. 



C. patelliformis, (Catopygus) Bouv^, Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., ir. 2. Georgia. 



Cassidulus patelli/onnis, Desor., Synop. des Echin, 290. 



HEMIASTER, Lam. 

 H. Conradi, Bouv^, Bost., Soc. Nat. Hist., v., 2d series, 3. Georgia. Desor., 

 Synop. des Echin. 373. 



DISCOIDEA, Lam. 



D. Haldemani, C, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., ir., 2d series, 40, 1, 12. Georgia. 



ECHINOCARDIUM, Gray. 

 K^orthonotus, (spatangus) C, Proceed. A. N. S. 1, 327. Virg. 



Amphidetus Virginianus, Forbes, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, i. 425. 

 Echinocardiuin Virc/inianum, Desor., Synop. des Echin. 408. 

 Cirripedia. 

 BALANUS, Lin. 

 B. humilis, C, Amer. Journ. Sci., ii., 2d series, 400, f. 4, Florida. 

 B. peregrinus, Morton, Organic Rem. of Cretac. Group, 72. S. C. 



Descriptions of new species of ECHINID.S. 

 BY T. A. CONRAD. 



SISMONDIA, Desor. 



S. ALT A.. Suborbicular ; margin thiu, disk gradually rising towards the 

 centre and concave in outline ; central portion elevated and obliquely flattened 

 at the summit ; ambulacra lanceolate, nearly closed ; anus subquadrangular, 

 thin, position nearer the mouth than the posterior end ; margin thin, un- 

 dulated. 



Scutella, Emmons, Geol. of North Carolina. 



S. MARGixALis. Subovate or suborbicular, depressed; ambulacra lanceo- 

 late ; central prominence rounded, margin thicker than the submarginal area 

 of the disk ; truncated posteriorly, emarginated ; anus subquadrangular, 

 minute, situated near the margin, which is thickened beneath. Diameter J 

 inch. Height _' inch, S. C. 



S. PLANA. Discoid, subovate, very thin, margin slightly thickened, disc 

 convex depressed, summit anterior to the middle ; ambulacra broadly lanceo- 

 late, nearly closed ; anus distant from the margin, but nearer to it than to the 

 mouth. Loneiiudinal diameter i ' of an inch ; transverse diameter 9 inch. 



" lb lb 



s. c. 



Descriptions of three new species of Exotic ITNIONES. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



TJnio WniOHTii. Testa plicata, lata, ad umbones inflat.\, valdfe inapquilate- 

 rali, postice acuto-angulata., anticfe rotuudata ; valvulis crassiusculis, anticd 

 crassioribus ; natibus subpromiueutibus et crcbre plicatis ; epidcrmide tene- 



1865.] 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



broso-fuscata, eradiata et marginata ; dentibus cardinalibus sublongis. sub- 

 obliquis, crenulatis, lamellatis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus 

 praslongis, obliquis, lamellatis corrugatisque ; margarita alba et valde irides- 

 cente. 

 ^a6.— China ; A. R. "Wright, M. D. 



Unio tortuoscs. Testa inaequivalva, contorta, plicata, valde obliqua, in- 

 flata, postice obtuse angulata, antice oblique curvata ; valvulis percrassis, an- 

 tice crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus, crassis terminalibusque ; epidermide 

 tenebroso-oliva, obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus permagnis, crassis, 

 rectis corrugatisque ; lateralibus sublongis, subrectis, striis perpendicularis 

 instructis ; margarita argentea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. China ; A. R. Wright, M. D. 



This remarkable Unio is the first which has been found possessing an ir- 

 regular plane of the margin and being ince-quivalve. When looking on the ante- 

 rior end with the ligament above, the line of the opening of the valves curves 

 to the right. The beak of the left valve is higher than that of the right and 

 projects anteriorly. The left valve is therefore larger than that of the right, 

 and the weight differs — the left being 257 grains and the right 242 grains. 

 The very remarkable perpendicular stria; on the lateral teeth of this speci- 

 men, if always present in other individuals, will demand its being placed 

 in the genus I'risodon, SchnmAcker ^ Cistalia, Lam. These striffi are proba- 

 bly normal to the species. Before Triquetra contorta, from China, was des- 

 cribed by me, none of us could have expected to see a member of the Unionidm 

 to be curved like Area tortuosa, Lin.; but now we have a second member of 

 the family totally unlike the other, except having a curved plane of the shell. 



Unio rdpofpsccs. Testa plicata, subquadrata, subsulcata, sublenticulari, 

 insquilaterali, posticfe rotundata, antice rotunda ; valvulis crassiusculis, an- 

 tice crassioribus ; natibus prominulis, crebre et minute plicatis ; epidermide 

 rufofusca, eradiata, micanti ; dentibus cardinalibus subcompressis, crenulatis, 

 in utroque valvulo subduplicibus ; lateralibus longis subcurvisque ; marga- 

 riti alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — ? Sig. Patricio Maria Paz. 



May 2d. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Eleven members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 '' Partial Catalogue of the Cold blooded Vertebrata of Michigan, Pt. 

 II.," By E. D. Cope. 



May ^th. 

 The President, Da. Bridges, in the Chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 



May \Qth. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : " Description 

 of ei"ht new Species of Unio of the United States." By Isaac Lea. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Mai/ 23(f. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Twentv-two members present. 



The following paper VFas presented for publication : " An Examina- 

 tion of Birds of the Genus Chrjsomitris, &c," By John Cassin. 



Dr. Leidy called the attention of the members to specimens of 

 Gryphaea and Ostrea, from the New Jersey Green-sand, presented this 

 evening, as affording evidence of the existence of a boring sponge, 

 during the Cretaceous period, which penetrated the shells in the same 

 manner as at the present time. 



In answer to a question, Dr. Storer stated that he had observed no 

 true viviparous fishes on the Atlantic coast of the United States, but 

 that Sygnathus carried its young in an abdominal pouch. 



May 30<A. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



The Secretary announced the death, on the 6th inst., of Dr. Wm. 

 Darrach, and ou the 13th, of Mr. Fernando de la Cuesta, late members of 

 the Academy. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Some Bemarks on LABBUS FTJLCHEB (Ayres.) 

 BY ALBERT OUNTHER, M. A., M. D., PH. D. 



The March number of the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, 1864, page 57, contains a paper entitled, " Description of a 

 new Labroid genus allied to Trochocopus (Gthr.), by Theodore Gill," in which 

 the author states that he had been misled by me in considering the Labrua 

 pulcher (Ayres) as a species of Semicossyphus (Gthr.), but having received a 

 specimen of this fish, found " that it has not the 'lateral teeth distinct,' as 

 in Semicossyphus, but an ' obtuse osseous ridge round the edge of the jawa 

 without distinct lateral teeth,' as in Trochocopus {Oihr.), to which Gunther 

 should have referred it." A single glance at pp. 99 and 100 of the fourth 

 volume of my "Catalogue of Fishes," will show that Mr. Gill inverts the 

 characters given by me to those genera. However, his description of the 

 teeth of this fish (p. 58) is distinct enough ; and I have no doubt that I should 

 Lave referred it to Trochocopus, if I had seen it. 



But a few lines further, the author goes on to say : " I (Mr. Gill) previously 

 followed him, (Dr. G.), as he was acquainted with Semicos'i/phus and Tro- 

 chocopus through autopsy, while I was not." This is not correct, as will be 

 perfectly evident on turning to p. 99 of the volume mentioned, where no refe- 

 rence whatever is made to a specimen contained in our collection, and as is 

 curiously enough acknowledged by Mr. Gill himself on the following page, 

 (p. 59 of his paper), where he says, contradicting himself, that Dr. Giinlher 

 '• was acqaaiuted with neither (via., Stmicossyphus and Trochocopus darwinii) 

 through autopsy." 



1865] 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Partial Catalogue of the Cold-blooded VERTEBBATA of mcMgan. 



BY PROF. E. D. COPE. 



Part II. 



(Continned from page 285 of last volume.) 



Malacopterygii. 



Fundnlus multifasciatus Cuv., Val. From Frederick, Macomb Countj, 

 Grosse Isle, and Oakland County. 



Fundulus* aureus, sp. nov. 



Head flattened, its d^pt^l at orbit three-fourths interorbital -R-idtb ; latter one- 

 half the length of head, or one-eighth the total length to end of scales at base 

 of caudal. Eye large, its diameter contained once in advance of it, and one 

 and a half times to opercular border. Mouth terminal, mandible slightly 

 longer. Back flat to middle of its length, then rapidly compressed to ciudal. 

 Scales large, with no exposed and'ten concealed radii, nine longitudinal, thirty- 

 three transverse series. Greatest depth four and three-quarter times in length 

 from end of muzzle to end of scales. Pectorals not reaching ventrals, nor ven- 

 trals the vent. Anal originating in advance of dorsal, like the latter, rather 

 short. From base of caudal to anterior base of dorsal equals one- half the 

 length from latter point to end of ossa nasalia. Radii D. 10 G, rounded 16 

 (complete) ; 11 ; V. 6 ; P. 13. Br. 5. Total length two inches. Above uniform 

 light golden brown; below pale yellow, inferior part of opercula silver white ; 

 a brown band extends from the end of the muzzle to the origin of the caudal 

 fin. 



From Grosse Isle ; obtained by Prof. Fox. 



The anterior position of the anal fin allies this to some species which have 

 been separated under the name of Z;/ffonectes, for what reason has not yet been 

 explained. A banded species from St. Louis, Mo., hag been named Z. zonuius 

 by Agassiz, but as there is no description, it has not entered the zoological 

 record. 

 Melanura 1 i m i Agass. EydTargyra Kirt, 



Flint River, Grosse Isle and Oakland Co. 



Esox c y p h o, sp. nov. 



Profile steeply descending; muzzle slightly concave. Frontal concavity 

 short, strongly marked, as wide as the superciliary plane on each side of it ; 

 eye contained six and one-half times in length of head, a little less than frontal 

 width ; pupil opposite extremity of maxillary. Latter appressed posteriorly, 

 so as to give a shorter cranial diameter than at the middle of the muzzle. 

 Head contained two and two-fifth times in length to end of caudal. Buccal 

 and opercular scales equal, similar to those on middle of body, smaller than 

 those near anal fin. On body, I| 110 — 12. Dorsal region elevated, broad; 

 caudal peduncle thick, its length equal from eye to posterior edge of oper- 

 culum. Emargination of caudal two-fifths length of the fin. From symphysis 

 mandibuli to anterior margin of orbit 1 in. ; from latter point to edge of oper- 

 culum 1 in. 5 lin. ; from last point to origin of ventrals 1 in. 8 lin. ; from same 



* Fundulus sciadicus, sp. nov., was brought by Dr. W. A. Hauimond from the Nebraska or 

 Platte KiTer, and presented to the Academy. The lorni is short and stout, the scales large the 

 fins small au'd the anal originating a little in advance of the dursal. Length of head 3i times to 

 ») we of tail ; eye Z\ times in length of head, once in front of orbit, and one and two- third time" 

 between supercilia. Bivse of caudal to anterior base of dorsal a little Irss thin half from latter to 

 end of premaxillary. From base of caudal to base of ventrals equal from latter to opposite ante- 

 rior margin of pupil. Thirteen longitudinal, thirty-nine transverse series of scales. D. prolonged 

 a little beyond anal 10. A. 12. V. 8. Largest specimen two inches in lensth, many smaller. 



Above o'live slate color: below, the caudal peduncle and opercula hjuwnish yellow. No nfOtB 

 or lines. _-, 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 79 



to origin of anal 3 in. 3 Hn. ; origin of anal to middle base of caudal 2 in. 

 Tot.ll length 10 in. 5 lin. 



Above iron brown; numerous closely arranged spots and vertical bars on 

 the lower part of the sides, largest anteriorly, forming a serrate outline to the 

 narrow pale hue of the abdomen. Operculum obliquely barred. A few spots 

 on mandibles below, and a vertical black bar from eye ; fins spotless. 



No. 64 ; Waterford, Oakland Co. Several specimens. 



The outline, colors and radial formula distinguish this small species from 

 its ally the umbrosusof Prof. Kirtland. 



The following table represents some of the relations of the species of this 

 genus, as far as deducible from our specimens and the very imperfect descrip- 

 tions such as authors too frequently inflict upon science. 



I. Operculum and cheek entirely scaled. 

 Branchiostegal R. 11 to 13. 



Dorsal outline arched ; pectorals much nearer ventrals than end 

 of premaxillary. D. 1(3. V. 9. A. 14. Depth five times to base 

 of tail. Head 3J times in total length. End of upper jaw to 

 orbit much less than from orbit to opercular border. Frontal 

 groove shallow cypho. 



Dorsal outline straighter ; pectorals nearer (Dekay) end of muzzle 

 than to ventrals. D. 14 — 15. V. 9. End of upper jaw to orbit 

 less than from orbit to opercular border. A deep frontal 

 groove. Vomerine teeth in a shorter series than the palatines, fasciatus. 



Dorsal outline straighter. D. 13. V. 12. A. 12. Head four times 



in length. (Kirtld.) umbrosus. 



"Similar to fasciatus, but D. 12, and the vomerine series 



longer than palatine," (Holbr.) ravendii. 



Br. R. 14— IG. 



Dorsal outline straight ; pectoral fin nearer ventral than end of 

 muzzle. D, 18. A. 17. Depth six times to base of caudal. 

 End of muzzle to orbit equal from orbit to opercular border or 

 beyond reUeulatiis. 



D. 22. A. 21. Probably, not certainly, in this section dcprandiis. 



E. eras s us* Ag. enters this section. Of it little else peculiar 

 is mentioned than that the buccal scales are larger than the oper- 

 cular, and equal to those on the body, and the front deeply grooved. 

 E. ajfims has not been definitely separated from reticulata s. 



II. Cheek entirely, operculum half, scaled. 



Dorsal outline horizontal ; pectoral nearer end of muzzle than to 

 ventral. B. 14 — 15. D. 19. End of muzzle to orbit equal from 

 orbit to border of operculum. Frontal groove deep lucim. 



III. Cheek and operculum half scaled. 



B. 19. D. 19. No frontal groove nohilior. 



Esox ? With the form and proportions of reticulatus and the branchios- 

 tegal and fin radial formula of f a s c i a t u s ; not far from the E. affinis (?) of 

 Holbrouk, Ichtli. S. Caioliaa. Grosse Isle, Prof. Fox. 



Esox 1 u c i u s L. Richardson. 



I find no external specific difference between this fish and the fxtor of Lesenr, 

 Perhaps the large inner palatine teeth are a little longer, and in more num'>- 

 rous rows. The position of the ventral fin, with reference to the anal, caudal 

 and pectoral, varies much in both Kuropean and American specimens. A^t^t- 

 siz' description of his E. boreus applies very well to specimens of the so-cnlled 

 estor ; in some of these the vomerine row of teeth is longer, as in tjpe of brreun. 



* Am. Journ. Sci. Arts (2) xvi. p. 308. 



1865.] 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OP 



ia others shorter than the palatine. Neither Cuvier nor Richardson could 

 separate American specimens as a distinct species from the European pike. 



Esox n b i 1 i o r Thomp. 



Hist. Vermont, and Proc. Bost. Soc. N. H. 1850, 305, where this is rightly 

 stated to be the estor of Richardson. It is also evidently estor of Agassiz, Am. 

 Journ. Sci. Arts, xvi. p. 308, and formerly of Kirtland, but later correctly 

 named by the latter, Cleveland Annals of Science, 1854, p. 78 ; also B. lucioida, 

 Agass. and Gir., in Frank Forester, by Herbert. Fine specimens from Saginavr 

 Bay, No. 228. A snecimen is in the Academy Museum from the Alleghany River, 

 in Warren Co., Pa., and another was presented by Thaddeus Norris, from 

 Conneaught Lake, Crawford Co., Pa. The head of the latter measures 12 in. 

 9 1. in length, and 17-6 in circumference at the preopercles. 



The Esoces ohioensis Kirtl., and lineatus and lugubrosus of Leseur (C. V. vol. 

 18) can hardly be said to be described, while the vermiculatus of Lespur, and 

 vittatus and salmonms of Rafinesque, may be recognized in the localities where 

 first taken, if existing. Lesenr's specimens were taken in the Wabash. 



Trutta namaycush Penn. Saginaw Bay. 



Thymallus tricolor, sp. nov. 



Muzzle slightly rounded in profile, as long as diameter of orbit; under jaw 

 slightly longer. Cranium rather broad above, median ridge strong to nasal 

 region. Eye just one-fourth length to opercular border. End of maxillary not 

 quite reaching middle of pupil. Nares as near the premaxillary border as to 

 the orbit. Superior angle of interoperculum in contact with operculum ; latter 

 twice or more than twice the width of suboperculum. Maxillo-premaxillary 

 ant^le open, rounded ; maxillary little convex ; mandible hardly angulated. 

 Head contained in length to base of caudal a little less than five times ; greatest 

 depth four and two-thirds in the same. Teeth, including the palatine, well 

 developed ; those on the vomer few, in one or two transverse rows. Dorsal, 

 origin opposite median point between ventrals and operculum ; length of base 

 equal to from first ray to upper border of preoperculum, or a few lines nearer 

 the orbit; penultimate rays longest, about equal length of head, not quite at- 

 taining the base of the anal ; R. 21, the first nine undivided. P. 16, extending 

 beyond origin of dorsal; V. 10, under the eighteenth dorsal ray ; A. 13 ; C. 19. 

 Scales extending between longer rays to opposite the edge of the not very deep, 

 rounded eraargination. Sc. jy 95 — 8, exposed portion little higher than wide. 

 Br. 8. Pyloric coeca twenty-two, (in one specimea), twelve round the pylorus, 

 and ten in two longitudinal parallel rows immediately beyond. 



Below silvery, above pale brown, every where with blue reflections. Small 

 deep blue spots scattered on the sides, more abundantly anteriorly. Dorsal 

 fin with numerous blue spots, aud two and three rows of narrow pinkish purple 

 spots above them ; superior border pink-purple. 



Length to base of caudal 8 in. 9 tin. ; to vent 6 in. 5 lin. Length of limb of 

 caudal 1 in. 4 lin. ; base of anal lOA lin. 



The stomach was filled with neuropterus larvae and small twigs of Thuja. 



This genus, first brought to light in the United Stales by Prof. Miles, is rep- 

 resented in the more northern parts of the Continent by a fine species — the T. 

 s i gn if e r — and in Europe by the widely distributed T. vex i 1 1 i fer. The 

 pre'sent species is intermediate between the two in some respects. The muzzle 

 is shorter, the mouih less angulated, and the eye smaller than in its European 

 contrener: the scales are more numerous, and the median frontal ridge is pecu- 

 liar! the coloration is different. The head is longer than in the s i g n i f e r of 

 Richardson, and the anterior part of the body more produced ; the eye is con- 

 siderrthly smuUer. Dr. Rich^trdson mentions another high northern species, 

 under the name of Tb. t h y m a 1 1 o i d e s, but little of its distinctive character 

 can be ascertained from his description. 



Coregonus sp., from Saginaw Bay, indeterminable. 



[May, 




NA.TURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Acanihopterygii. 



Chirostoma s i c c u 1 u m, sp. nov. 



Mandible scarcely longer than premaxillary ; mouth extending four-fifths the 

 distance to opposite anterior border of orbit; muzzle conic. Eye 3^ times in 

 length of head ; head five times in length to base of tail. Scales small, in six- 

 t'een longitudinal and eighty-five transverse rows. Origin of first dorsal oppo- 

 site origin of anal, equidistant between base of caudal and anterior border of 

 orbit. Tip of pectoral reaching ventral. Dorsal outline from end of muzzle 

 to end of second dorsal plane. D. V.— 12. A. 25. V. 1—5. P. 10. Length to 

 base of caudal 



Color in spirits pale brown, (probably translucent in life), the silvery band 

 traversing the 7th row of scales from the dorsal, covering one and two half 

 rows. Top of head, and median dorsal region punctulate with black ; opercula 

 silvery. 



From Grosse Isle, Detroit River. Prof. Fox. 



Gasterosteus inconstans Kirtl.* Grosse Isle. Prof. Fox. 



Specimens labelled as having been brought from Sukertoppen, Greenland, 

 by Dr. I. I. Hayes, appear to belong to this species. 



Potamocottusf a 1 v o r d i i Cottus, Girard, Monogr. Cottoids. Smiths. Contr. 



Several specimens, agreeing in all points with Girard's description of a 

 young individual except in the position of the vent; the latter is invariably 

 considerably nearer the base of the caudal than to the symphysis mandibuli — 

 most nearly median in the smallest specimens. The largest are 3| inches in 

 length. lu all 1 find numerous palatine teeth and a considerable patch of mi- 

 nute dermal spines behind and above the axilla. This species will enter both 

 Girard's Coitopsis, and Gill's Potamocottus ;X but Prof. Gill informs me that he 

 regards the C. aspe r as the only species referable to Girard's genus, and that 

 the others belong truly to Potamocottus. Similar spinous scales occur oa a 



* Gasterosteus micropus is an ally of the incongtans brought from the neighborhood of 

 Fort Kiley, Kansas, by Dr. W. A. Hammond. It has a much smaller post-pectoral plate and ven- 

 tral spine, shorter anal and second dorsals, shorter, thinker head, with the bony radii on the upper 

 surface distinct. Length of anal less than from its last ray to end of caudal, and three lengths 

 from the same point reaches the preopercular angle, or hinrler margin of orV)it. Post-pectoral 

 plate smooth, oblique, concave in front, reaching lower pectoral rays, as long as diameter of orbit 

 longer than smooth ventral spine. Length of muzzle less than diameter of orbit. Belly shield 

 small, twice the ventral spine. Caudal peduncle compressed, smooth. Eye one fourth length of 

 head; latter is measured three and two-thirds times in length to base of caudal. D. 4, slender, 

 without plates, 1+10; C.+lO-f- truncate; A. 1,9, first under second of second dorsal. P. 10. Above 

 blackish, below grey; sides, belly and cheeks densely punctulated with black. 



Near Fcrt Riley, Kansas; from the Platte River. Dr. W. A. Hammond. 



t The Academy's museum possesses a specimen of a Greenland Cottid, which appears to be a 

 second species of the genus Triglops. It may be called T. pie urost ictus, and defined as follows: 



Head above a line drawn along the suborbital bones, and back above the lateral line covered 

 with minute scales. Eye 3j times into head ; intercjrliital breadth less than half orbit, concave; 

 parietal region concave, with a knob on each side. A transverse depression across the line of the 

 posterior n ares. Four preopercular spines, two directeil backward, one downward and one for- 

 ward. Mouth horizontal, mandible longer, end of maxillary opposite hinder margin of pupil. On 

 each side, opposite each interval between each dorsal ray. .1 patch of naked skin imitating a shield ; 

 on each side of the fin a row of tubercles extending to middle of second dorsal. Lateral line with 

 ctenoid plates, whose free posterior borders are continuous with the numerous vertical lateral 

 series of small contit;uous ctenoid scales; these give an appearance of the existence of the lateral 

 plates seen in some species of Gasterosteus; several transverse rows of similar scales in advance of 

 the ventrals. The body from the middle of the second dorsal to caudal is depressed cylindrical. 

 Pectorals extending much beyond vent to anal fiu ; ventrals reaching vent ; latter with a large 

 papilla. Branchiostegal membrane continuous, rays six, (seven in pingelii). Head enters 

 three and three-fourths times in length to base of caudal ; greatest depth five times. Rays, D. XI. 

 2. 4. C. 11 full rays; fin small. A. 27 (21 pi n gelii; V. I. 3 (5 pinge 1 ii) P. 18, the rays rough- 

 ened. Total length 4 in. 9 lin. 



General color brown, darkest above; silvery from vent to branchiostegal membrane, and behind 

 and in front of pectoral fin. Sides pale chestnut ; a band of sienna streaks from opposite middle 

 of pectoral to base of caudal, interrupted by silver spots and lines. 



From Gotlhaven, Greenland, (Coll. No. 114J. 

 X Proc. Boat. Soc. N. H. 



1866.] 6 




82 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



specimen from Absecom, N. J., referable to Cottus meridionalis Gir. My 

 specimens all exhibit a more depressed head than is represented by Girard. 

 They differ from the w i 1 s o n i i in a larger eye and narrow interorbital space, 

 and in their simple pectoral rays ; the caudals are twice furcate. Second 

 dorsal has from 16 to 18 rays. They dififer from richardsoniias described, 

 in having the vent considerably nearer the tip of the caudal fin than the end 

 of the muzzle. 



Dexter, Washington Co., No. 183. Grosse Isle, Prof. Fox. 



Uranidea s p i 1 o t a, sp. nov. 



Entering the section with five ventral rays, and with an elongate body ; and 

 resembling apparently the b a i r d i i, except in its short and anteriorly situated 

 ventral fins. In w i 1 s o n i i the eye is smaller, and frontal width greater ; the 

 pectoral rays are branched, in the present species simple. In richardsonii 

 the vent is said to be the median point of the distance from the muzzle to the 

 caudal fin ; here it is much nearer the muzzle. In c ogn at us we are informed 

 that the anal fin has a more posterior position. 



The length of the head is contaiued three times plus one orbital diameter 

 from end of muzzle to base of caudal fin ; said diameter enters 4J times length 

 of head, and is one-third greater than interorbital width. The head is slighty 

 contracted laterally, and not so depressed as in T. a 1 v o r d i i, giving the or- 

 bits less vertical range. One preopercular spine. Insertion of pectorals ob- 

 lique, rays undivided, reaching anus and anterior rays of second dorsal; ven- 

 trals below middle of pectoral insertion in advance of dorsal, extending half 

 way to vent. Width of isthmus equal from border of (closed) premaxillary to 

 opposite hinder margin of pupil. Dorsal outline low, regularly descending to 

 near end of second dorsal. Greatest depth enters five times from end of muzzle 

 to base of caudal Lateral line disappears between middle and end of caudal. 

 First dorsal low, first ray three-fourths of 2d, 3d and 4th ; anal begins opposite 

 fourth ray of second dorsal. Caudal fin rather small, rays once divided. No 

 trace of palatine teeth. Rays D. VIII. 17, A. 13, V. I. 4, P. 15, Br. VI. Length 

 three inches. 



Above brown, below yellowish, everywhere densely punctulated with darker, 

 except between the vent and anterior to ventral fins. Dorsal, caudal and pec- 

 toral fins barred ; anal yellowish. Base of caudal and dorsal spots blackish ; 

 large lateral round spots of the same color sometimes in seven or fewer cross- 

 bars. 



Several specimens from Grand Rapids, on the Grand River, which flows into 

 Lake Michigan. 



Catonotns flabellatus Put. 329 a. Grosse Isle. 



Poecilichthys coeruleus* Agass. , 329 b. Grosse Isle. This is P. transver- 

 sus Abbott, which name has been accidentally exchanged with the next 

 species ; vide the Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., List of Fishes. 



Hyostoma eymatogramma. Pileoma cymatogramma Abbott. Pr. A. N. S., 

 1860. 329 c. Grosse Isle. 



Percina caprodes Gir. Putn. 329 d. Grosse Isle. Small specimens, 

 agreeing with P. Zebra Ag. 



StizoBtediam americanu m* C. V. Lucioperca Auct. 

 Nos. 224, 244, 245, 251, 252, from Saginaw Bay. 



Perca flavescens Cuv. 



63. Oakland Co., 229 Saginaw Bay, (presents a monstrous form of skull, 



* The S. can ad en Be of Smith is identified by Agassiz. " Lake Superior" p., with the ameri- 

 ca num. but it is evident that it is more nearly allied to, if not identical with, the S.salmonenni 

 Raf.. of the Ohio, a handsome and peculiar fish, slightly resembling an Aapro, as has been remarked. 

 The latter is not rare, ani is well described by Rafiuesque ia Ichtb. Ohiensis. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 83 



similar to that figured by Steindacliner of Vienna in Cyprinus c ar p i o) ; Pine 



Lake, etc., etc. 



Roccus chrysops Gill. Lahrax Auct. No. 246. Saginaw Bay. 



Micropterus nigricans Gill, MSS. Huro C. V. Grystes Agass., Lake 

 Superior. Nos. 116 Orchard L. Oakland Co., 122 Strait's Lake do., 317- 

 18-19 Bald Eagle Lake, do., 261 Copenaconic Lake, Grosse Isle. 



Micropterus fasciatus Gill, MSS. Cichla Leseur. Grtfstes Agass. Black 

 Bass of the Lakes and the Ohio. 291, 296, Swartz Creek, Genesee Co. 

 235, Saginaw Bay. Grosse Isle. 



Pomotis maculatus* Gill. Pomotis vulgaris Richardson. Fauna Bor. 

 Americana, et Auctorum. Thirty-five spec. No. 56, 58, 59, Waterford, 

 Oakland Co. ; 111, Clinton Riv. ; 264, Long Lake, Qfenesee Co., Copena- 

 conic Lake, do., and Grosse Isle. 

 This species also occurs in the Eastern States and in South Carolina. The 



dimensions of the largest specimen are : length, 24" ; greatest height of body, 



10''' 5''^. 



Lepomis incisorf Holbr., Ichth. S. Ca. Pomotis C.Y. Forty-five spec. 



Nos. 60, 60a, 61, 265, 258, from same localities as the preceding, and 



124, 126, 327, from Strait's Lake, Oakland Co. ; 268 near Crooked Lake, 



Genesee Co. 



The identity of this species with that so abundant in the South, is rather 



unexpected. I find, indeed, an additional anal ray in a few specimens from 



South Carolina, but no other difference. The largest sjjecimen measures : 



length, 25'^ 5^^'; depth 11". Independent of the difference between this and 



• Bryttus oculatus is a pretty species obtained by Dr. J. n. Slack in Lake AVhittlesey. Minn. 

 The head iscompressed, elongate, contained (measmed to just below opercular flap), two and three- 

 fifths or three-quarters to bawe of caudal: front rather concave, one diameter of the eye reaches to 

 premaxillary border, and live and six measures the length of the head. Mandible not longer when 

 closed ; end of maxillary opposite half-way between pupil and edge of orbit, t-cales on cheek in 



5 

 six rows, below suborbital bones; on body — 33^. Superior posterior border of operculum strong, 



12 

 rounded, serrate. Dorsal with spines well developed, and no depression between the divisions 10 

 — 10; caudal slightly emarginate, -f-16-j- ; anal projecting beyond second dorsal, 3 — 9, its first ray 

 opposite the last spinous dorsal. Ventrals quite or barely reaching anal, 1—5 ; pectorals extend- 

 ing a little further posteriorly, 12. Greatest depth 2J/^ times to base of caudal ; depth at posterior 

 border of second dorsal one-half depth from first dorsal to origin of ventral; length of caudal pe- 

 duncle (to line of dorsal) cont. three times from base of caudal to opercular border below flap. 



Color in spirits reddish, not punctulate; lower surfiices and fins golden. Second dorsal, anal, 

 and caudal, punctulate, the base of the latter slightly spotted. Opercular flap well developed, 

 outline nearly circular, marked with a black central disc, which is interrupted by the convex 

 border of the operculum, and entirely surrounded by a broad white (? red) border. 



The length of this species is about four inches. 



t Lepomis 1 o n g i s p i n i s of the Mus. Academy was obtained by Dr. Ileermann on hisjourney 

 from St. Louis to Southern California. 



It approaches the sp ecio sus of Girard, but has a longer head and fins, the spines much more 

 developed, and a larger eye. Front slightly concave ; dorsal oiitline elongate gibbous. 



Greatest depth is measured 2% times from muzzle to base of caudal. The head measures 3% 

 times to the same point; the latter fin If times in total length. Hye three times from muzzle to 

 BUture between operculum and suboperculum; a little longer than length of muzzle, and equal 

 frontal width; maxillary reiu-hing its anterior border. Four rows scales below the orbit. Supe- 

 rior posterior process of operculum distinguishable from the short Hup: not serrate; preopercu- 

 lum finely serrate. A'entrals reaching first anal spine; pectorals a little longer. First soft ray of 

 anal equal ba.se of the fin ; third long ray little shorter. Fifth (longest) ray of bony dorsal as long 

 as or longer than half depth of body, measuring to the eleventh row of scales from its base, scales 

 y\ 41. Caudal not deeply furcate. No trace of palatine teeth. Kadii D. 10— 11 ; C-1-17-1- ; A. 3 

 —11 ; V. 1—5 ; P. 1—12. Length three and one-half inches. General color oliv.iceous. (possibly 

 Stainrid,) dorsal region, front and base of tail, brown. Uclly brighter; an elongate black sjiot on 

 upper part of operculum, without lighter border, and a round one on the middle of the last rays of 

 the second dorsal. 



This is a more elongate species than the i n c i s o r, which It resembles, b&e longer flru and fewer 

 rays in the second dorsal. The opercular flnp is much smaller. 



1865.] 




84 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



the preceding species in the pharyngeal teeth, (Pomotis rounded, molar-like ; 

 Ichthelis acute, canine, ace. to Holbrook,) they may be distinguished by the 

 anal radii — mac ulatus 91, incisor lOi, and by the upper posterior process 

 of the operculum having a distinct serrate border in the former, in the latter 

 gradually losing its bony consistence ; there are also permanent marks of dis- 

 tinction in the coloration. 



Chaenobryttus* melanops. Ichthelis melanops Raf. Ichth. ohiensis, p. 

 28. Not Calliurus melanops Gir., (Chaenobryttus Gill.) U. S. Pac. R. 

 R. X. p. 11. 



Chaenobryttusf gulosus. Centrarchus C. Y. Calliurus Ag. 



I am indebted to Prof. Gill, of Washington, for the identification of this and 

 some other species of Centrarchine genera. 



Ambloplites rupestris Raf. Gill, Proc. A. N. S., 1860, p. 20. Centrarchus 

 aeneus Auct. 

 302, Algoma, St. Clair Co. ; Long Lake ; Flint River. 



Hyperistius hexacanthus Gill, Sillim. Journ., 37, p. 97,1864. Cur. 

 Val. nee Centrarchus^hexacanthus Kirtl. 

 Saginaw Bay, No. 238. 



BATRACHIA. 



Gkadientia. 

 Necturus macnlatus Bd. 

 Amblystoma 1 u r i d u m Bd, 

 Amblystoma f u s c u m Hallow. 

 Amblystoma punctatum Bd. 

 Amblystoma Jefferson ianum Bd. 

 Amblystoma laterale Hallow. 

 Notophthalmus m i n i a t u s Bd. 

 Notophthalmus viridesoens Baird. 



SALIEXTIA. 



Chorophilus triseriatus Wied. 

 Acris crepitans Bd. 

 Hyla p i c k e r i n g i i Leo. 

 Hyla versicolor Lee. 

 Rana s e p t e n t r i o n a 1 i s Bd. 



* Tid. Gill, in Sillim. Journ., 1S64. 37— p. 94. 



f An allied species was contained in a fine collection of fishes made in Minnesota by J. H. Slack, 

 M. D., and presented to the Academy by him. It may be thus distinguished: 



Bryttus m i n e o p a s sp. nov. End of maxillary opposite posterior margin of pupil ; eye If to 

 twice in frontal breadth, five and a half to six times from end of muzzle to upper posteritDr bor- 

 der of opercular bone. Greatest depth 21^ to 2J^ times in length to base of caudal. Length of 

 head to upper border suboperculum a little over three times in length to base of '■audal. Opercu- 

 lar flap a mere border above, little prolonged, but wider opposite the superior angle ot subopercu- 



seeoud I ,. i , , ,> , , 



are two-thirds their length from anal ; pectorals not extending beyond them. Preopercular angle 

 finely denticulate. Scales 8 48 ; ten series on the cheek below orbit. Rays, D. X 11 ; C. -1-17 X ; 



A.inO; Y. 15; P. 12. 



Color in alcohol light-reddish, shaded above with brown, below with yellow : a black spot at 

 posterior base of second dorsal, the fin otherwise immaculate, sometimes dark shaded. Anal 

 shaded dusky, bordered with white; ventrals dusky. Opercular spot large, oval, bordered with 

 light narrowly above, more broadly inferiorly. Ko stripes on the head. 



Specimens obtained at Miuneopa, Minnesota. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



Rana clamitans Baud. 

 Eana silvatica Lee. 

 Rana halecina, Kalm. 

 Rana catesbyana Shaw. 



The seventy-eight species embraced in the above synopsis form but part of 

 the fine zoological collection made by the State Geological Survey, under Prof. 

 Alexander Winchell. 



Note on the Fishes brought from the Platte River, near Fort Riley, by Dr. Wm. 



A. Hammond. 

 Bryttus 1 o n g u 1 n s Gird., U. S. Pac. R. R. Rept., x. p. 16. 

 Stizostedium americanumC. V., Dekay, Zool. New York. 

 Poecilichthys m e s ae u s Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Phil., 1864, p. 232. 

 Gasterosteus micropus Cope, supra. 

 Trutta 1 e w i s 1 Gird., U. S. Pac. R. R. Rept,, x. p. 318. 

 Hyodon tergisus Les., Gird. 1. c, p. 332. 

 P«rcopsis hammondii Gill, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1864, p. 

 Fundulus sciadicus Cope, supra. 

 Carpiodes d a m a li s Gird., loc. cit, p. 218. 



Catostomus chloropterum Abbott, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1861, 473. 

 Campostoma hipp ops Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Phila., 1864, p. 264. 

 Hybognathus e van si Gird., loc. cit., x. p. 236. 

 Pimephales promelas Raf., Ichth. ohiensis, p. 53. 

 Alburnus* oligaspis Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Phila., 1864, 282. 

 Gila af fin is Abb. 1. c, 1861, p. 474. 



Semotilus corporalis Mitch., Putn. Sem. hammondii Abb., 1. c. p. 474. 

 Semotilus pallid us Gird., loc. cit., x. p. 251. 

 Platygobio gulonellus Cope, 1. c, 1864, p. 277. 

 Ceratichthys cy clot is Cope, Pr. A. N. S. 1864, p. 277. 

 Rhinichthys m a X i 1 1 s u s Cope. loc. cit., 278. 

 Ictalurus caerulescens Raf. Pimdodus hammondii Abbott, Pr. A. N. S. 



Phila., 1861, 569, appears to be same as that named by Rafinesque palli- 



dus marginatus. 



* A species of this genus occurs in some of the tributari'-s of the Allegheny, e. g., the Kiskimi- 

 nitas, which differs from those hitherto described. The head is elongate conic .and compressed, 

 the outline of the vertex anl front nearly plane, scarcely descending at the end of the muzzle; 

 length one-fifth the total, (thus differing from dilectus Gir. onesi.xth). Operculum a little 

 higher than long. Mouth elongate, very oblique, end of maxillary opposite anterior margin of 

 orbit ; border of pre-maxillary above opposite midflle of pupil, (differing in this from rube 1 1 u 9 

 Ag.) Orbit nearer end of muzzle than to opercular border, its diameter not reaching former, and 

 contained four times in length of head. Shape regularly fusiform, greatest depth five and one 

 half times in length including caudal. Scales | 39-f 2, fewer than in u m b r a t i 1 i ,s, more than 

 in oligaspis, and much as in amabilis, niegalops and s o c i u s. These species are not 

 80 elongate, have differently proportioned heads anil different coloratiou. The lateral line has a 

 long slight deflection as far as the dorsal fin. The pectorals do not reach the ventrals. which 

 originate anterior to the dorsal, and do not extend to the anal. Base of anal more elongate thaa 

 in rub ell us. equal depth of body at it.^ fourth ray. D. I. S. C,-|-19+. A. 2, 10. V. S. P. 11, the 

 four upper rays enlarged in the spring, as in I'.hinichthys, etc. From origin of caudal to that of 

 dorsal equal from latter to posterior border or middle of orbit. Ixmgth 2 in. 6 lin. 



Above yellowish olive, the scales with punctulate margins; a median dorsal line. A dark late- 

 ral band has a distinct outline on the third row of scales above the lateral line, but vanishes in 

 punctulations below; it is broader and more <listinct on the caudal peduncle. From its superior 

 border a silver reflection extends over the white abdomen. Sides of head silvery : cliin, muzzle, 

 lips, front and vertex light v«rniilii.in during the breeding season. The bases of the fins, except 

 the caudal, are similarly colored at this season. The pharyngeal teeth are but little hooked ; in 

 three specimens. 4. 2 — 1. 4, and in two, 4. 2—2. 4. 



I have called this species Alburn us rubrifrons. Its form is quite different from that of the 

 A. n i t i d u e Kirtlan i ; the latter resembles more the Hybognathus p r o c n c. 



1865.] 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Ictalurns n o t a t u s Abb., loc. cit. 



Amia c a Iv a Linn. 



Lepidosteus o t a r i u s, sp. nov. 



Distinguislied from the other species of the genus contained in the Mns. 



Academy, as below. 

 A complete series of adult and young specimens of Lep. huronensis, 



from the Alleghany Rirer and the Lakes, shows but a limited variation in the 



relations of the diameter of the eye, operculum, cheek, and frontal width. 



The Texan specimen included in the list below, may be the leptorhynchus 



Gird., but that species is not recognizable from the description, Pac. R. R. 



Eept., X. 351. I have seen no individuals assignable to the gr ac i lis*Agass., 



Fauna Bor. Americ, Richardson., iii. p. 240. 



I. Horizontal diameter of the eye more than half the dis- 

 tance from its border to the operculum. 



a. Distance from pectoral to ventral fins considerably less than 

 from ventrals to anal. 

 Anterior border of operculum longer than horizontal diame- 

 ter of the same ; its inferior border straight. Eye one and 

 three-fourths to twice in frontal breadth. Scales smooth, 

 43 — 4, in a ring passing behind ventrals. From ventral 

 to anal three and a half to three and three-fifths times in 

 length from muzzle to inferior origin of caudal. Fourteen 



specimens huronensis. 



Operculum also higher than long, its lower border descend- 

 ing anteriorly. Eye one-third of frontal width ; 44 rows 

 of scales, as above, 57 on lateral line ; many on anterior 

 third of body rugose radiate. One spec crassus.\ 



* Cylindostrens productus was brought by Dr. A. L. Heermann in a yaluable collection 

 made in Texas, for the most part near r-an Antonio, his place of residence. It appn.aches 

 nearer the true LepMostei than any of the flat-billed species yet known: the bill is considerably 

 more elongate than in the platystomus, and the operciila more posterior. Length of head 

 enters total length (including caudal) three and a halt times in the former, four times in latter. 

 Width of muzzle at middle enters nine and one-half times the length of the head, above. Frontal 

 breadth five and one-half times in length of head above in productus, four and one half in 

 platystomus. Orbit contained three times in distance from its posterior liorder to opercular, 

 and twice in frontal width, four scales border the occipital plates, and the line connecting the 

 opercular borders cuts the hinder edge of the third row. Parietal plates presenting each a promi- 

 nent an°-le forwards, near the median suture: radii of upper surfaces of head but little bnken 

 into granules. Scales perfectly smooth, with entire borders stniight pusterior to ventrals, anterior 

 without sigmoid curve. Plates of vertebral series each broader than long, anterior to ventrals. 

 Forty-one Scales posterior, forty-three anterior to ventrals in an armulus. Anterior border of 

 operculum 1 nger than the greatest length of the same. D. 8; C. 11; A. 7 ; P. 10. End of muzzle 

 to pectoral 5 iri. : pectoral to ventral 4 in., 3 1. Ventral to anal 4 in., 5 lin. ; to caudal below 6 in., 

 6 lin. Abjve light lead-colored; sides of body and head silvery, former densely punctulated; 

 latter with a series of spots on the jaws. Muzzle above with eight cros.s-bands to angle of mouth; 

 three across top of cranium. Below yellow, many scales (in a stuffed specimen,) spotted and 

 shaded with pink. 



The spf'cies la tirostris, oculatus, and alb us have the muzzle broader than, or similar 

 to, that of the p 1 a t y s t o m u s. 



t This is a stout, thick species, with broad head, and not very elongate muzzle Breadth just 

 anteriiir to opercula, three and » half times in total leBSth of head from occipital shields : the 

 latter enters length to origin of caudal three and one-twelfth times. The front is slightly convex, 

 and descends strongly. The circumference of the body in front of the ventral fins is one-half the 

 leno'th from the middle of the origin of the tail to the anterior border of the orbit. Four or 

 five" rows of scales on the anterior third of the length are radiate grooved. End of the longest 

 dorsal ray above the first pair of braces of the lower caudal ray. Behind the Ventrals, about eleven 

 rows of scales that are longer than high on each side of the median line. Rays D. 8; 0. 12; A. 9 ; 

 V. 6; P 12. .\bove plumbeous, the scales with paler centres: below straw-color; several large 

 dark' spots and shades on the sides, from the caudal fin to near the ventrals: all the fins spitted. 

 Length from end of muzzle to base of caulal,2 ft., 11 in.; to origin of anal, 2 ft., 5 in.; to ventrals, 

 1 ft-^Ti in.; to opercular border. 11 in., b lin.; (o anterior margin of orbit, 8 in. Length of pecto- 

 ral fin, 2 in., 6 lin. ; of ventral. 3 in.. 2 lin.; of anal, 3 in. 



The type specimen was probably taken in brackish water at Bombay Hook, near the mouth of 

 the Deliiwara Kiver. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 87 



aa. Distance from pectoral to ventral equal to or greater than 

 from ventral to anal. 

 Operculum higher than long. From ventral to anal four 

 times from muzzle to lower origin of caudal ; head two 

 and three-fourths times in lengtli to same point : 43 — 4 

 rows of scales in ring: 57 in lateral line: faint traces of 



radii on a few anterior rows. One spec longirostris. 



Operculum longer than bigh. Scales smooth, in 41 rows 

 in ring behind ventrals ; lat. lin. 61 — 3. Head three and 

 one-sixth in length to inferior base of caudal. Eye one 

 and two-thirds in frontal breadth. Generally as in h u r o- 



nensis. Three spec otarius. 



II. Horizontal diam. of eye contained more than twice, 

 from its post. bord. to operculum. 



a. Scales smooth. 



Eye 2^ in front ; lat. line 58 ; pect. fin 13 rays sp. from Texas. 



Eye 3^ in front ; lat. line 64 ; pect. fin 11 rays. One spec, oxyurus. 

 aa. Scales on anterior half or more of body crenate and some- 

 what radiate and tuberculate. 

 Head three times from end of muzzle to lower origin of cau- 

 dal ; from ventral to pectoral a little less than from v. to 

 anal. Opercular anterior suture longer than length of 

 operculum. Eye three and two-thirds to three and five- 

 sixths in frontal breadth. Scales 47 to 50 in ring behind 

 ventrals, and 56 in lateral line. Two specimens osseus. 



In the L. otarius the temporal breadth is contained more than five times 

 in the total length of the head. D. 8, A. 9, P. 12. The borders of the scales 

 are hirsute, asinhuronensis, and the shorter straight, behind the line of 

 the ventral fins^ except a few toward the dorsal region. The first row in front 

 of the dorsal is the third from the inferior origin of the caudal, and fifth from 

 the anal. The parietal membrane shields present each a principal angle ante- 

 riorly near the median line ; five scales bound the occipitals posteriorly. From 

 end of muzzle to anterior border of orbit 5 in., 6 lin. ; to anterior border of 

 operculum 7 in., 10 lin. ; to posterior edge of do., 8 in., 8 lin. ; to origin of 

 ventrals, 15 in. ; to inferior origin of caudal, 24 in., 9 lin. Lead-colored 

 above ; the sides silvery ; below white. Pectoral and ventral fins unspotted ; 

 the others spotted : the anal sparsely ; a black spot at base of caudal. 



Number of species obtained by Dr. Hammond, 23 ; in the Michigan synop- 

 sis, 63; species occurring in both, Amia, Hyodon, Stizostedium amer icanum, 

 Ceratichthvs, Pimephales promelas, and Semotilus corporalis. In the 

 following list is shown the number of species of the synopsis as yet known 

 to occur in the Ohio and tributaries, the Susquehanna, and the Delaware : 



Michie^an. Ohio. Susquehanna. Delaware. 



Ganoidei 3 2 



Nematognathi 4* 3 1 1 



Eventognathi 28 10 6 4 



Malacopterygii 7 ?3 1 1 



Acanthopterygii 19 12 ?5 ?3 



Supplementary Note on a peculiar genus o/Ctpkinid^. 



I obtained a small fish in the Kiskiminitas River, Western Pennsylvania, 

 the present spring, which appears to be related in structure to allied genera 

 of the Cyprinidse, as Acerina is to some others among Percidae. Its gene- 



* Ameurus d e k a y i must be added to the Catalogue pt. I., and the supposed Ictalurug g r a- 

 ci lis is the coerulescens. 



1865.] 




88 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



ral appearance is that of a small Gobio or a Hybognathus, with the muzzle 

 rather heavier than is usual in either ; but examination shows that, besides 

 the absence of barbels, it is peculiar in that the suborbital and interopercular 

 bones, with the rami of the mandible, are greatly dilated, and bear septary 

 laminse, which separate mucous cavities, relatively as large as those of Acerina 

 or Percopsis. They extend in two series ; seven from the postorbital bone to 

 the side of the end of the muzzle, and eight from the same point to the sym- 

 physis mandibuli. The muzzle overlaps the mandible ; no cartilage on the 

 latter. Scales large, the usual surface exposed. Anal shoit, originating op- 

 posite end of depressed dorsal. Origin of ventrals opposite first dorsal ray. 

 Pharyngeal bones slender ; teeth acutely uncinate-raptatory, without masti- 

 catory surface, 4-1 — 0-4. 



I am not aware that any genus of Cyprinidse is known to exist in America 

 or the old world, which possesses the cavernous structure above mentioned. 

 Traces of it may be observed on the interoperculum in certain genera, e. g., 

 Hypsilepis. 



The suboperculum is stoall ; operculum height to breadth as one and one- 

 half to one. Head broad, muzzle obtusely rounded. Canthus of mouth op- 

 posite nares. Length of head contained three and five-sixths times to origin 

 of caudal ; greatest depth (at dorsal) nearly five times in the same. Caudal 

 peduncle elongate, not constricted. Eye large, contained a little more than 

 three times in length of head, a little more than frontal width. Origin of 

 dorsal a little in advance of the point midway between end of muzzle and 

 origin of caudal, its anterior ray equals half the distance from its base to an- 

 terior nostril. Caudal furcate one-half its length. Ventrals barely reaching 

 vent ; pectorals attaining ventrals. Scales | 33 ; exposed portion with very 

 numerous and delicate radii and concentric lines, not visible to the naked 

 eye. A narrow space from vent to opposite middle of pectorals scaleless. 

 Fins, DI. 8._C.+174-. A. I. 8. V. 8. P. 12. Lateral line nearly straight. Along 

 and above it is a lateral band of brown punctulations ; general color above 

 yellowish olive, the edges of the scales dark-shaded, and a narrow brown ver- 

 tebral line from nape to tail. Below lateral line silvery. Dorsal and caudal 

 fins rosy. Length from muzzle to opercular edge 7 1. ; to dorsal fin 13 1. ; to 

 end of appressed anal 1 in. 9 1. ; to origin of caudal 2 in. 2 1. ; to end of caudal 

 2 in. 8 1. 



This species appears not to have come under the notice of Prof. Kirtland or 

 of Rafinesque. It may be called Ericymba b u c c a t a. 



Descriptions of Eigtt new species of TJNIO of the United States. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio doliaris. — Testa, lagvi, elliptica, valdo infiata, inaequilaterali, postice 

 obtuse aagulata, antice rotnndata; valvulis subtenuibus, aatice crassioribus ; 

 natibus promiaeatibus, valde inflatus ; epidermide virido-lutea, radiis undique 

 indutis ; dentibus cardinalibus erectis, acumiaatis, compresso-conicis crenu- 

 latisque ; lateralibus subloagis, curvatis corrugatisque ; margarita alba et 

 valde iridescente. 



Bab. — Etowah River, Georgia. Rev. G. White. 



Unio protenscs. — Testa laevi, late elliptica, subcompressa, valde infequi- 

 laterali, postice subbiangulata, antice rotunda ; valvulis subtenuibus, antice 

 aliquanto crassioribus ; natibus prorainulis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, 

 obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus minimis, obliquis striatisque ; late- 

 ralibus praelongis subcurvisque ; margarita vel caeruleo-alba vel salmonia et 

 iridescente. 



Uab. — North Carolina. Prof. E. Emmons. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Unio punctatus. — Testa laevi, elliptica, ad latere planulata, valde inaequi- 

 laterali, postice et antice rotundata; valvulis crassis, antice aliquanto crassi- 

 oribus ; natibus vix prominulis ; epidermide olivacea, ; radiis punctatis 

 undiqufe indutis ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, compresso-conicis crenula- 

 tisque ; lateralibus longis, crassis subcurvisque ; margarita argentea et 

 iridescente. 



Hab. — Caney Fork, Tennessee, Dr. Edgar ; and Tuscumbia, Alabama, 

 B. Pjbas. 



Unio amabilis. — Testa laevi, triangulari, subinflata, inaequilaterali, postice 

 angulata, antice rotunda, valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus ; natibus 

 Bubprominentibus, ad apices undulatis ; epidermide vel luteola velfuscescente, 

 obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, obliquis corrugatisque ; late- 

 ralibus sublongis, obliquis corrugatisque ; margarita vel alba vel dilute sal- 

 monia et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Butler, Taylor Co., Georgia. H. M. Neisler. 



Unio Lyonii. — Testa l«evi, siibrotunda, subcompressa, inaequilaterali : val- 

 vulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus ; epidermide 

 rufo-fusca, late radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus subgrandibus, subcompressis 

 corrugatisque; lateralibus crassis, obliquis subcurvisque; margarita dilute 

 salmonia et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — East Tennessee. Major S. S. Lyon, U. S. E. 



Unio proprius. — Testa laevi, oblonga, subinflata, inaequilaterali, postice 

 obtuse angulata, anticd rotunda; valvulis subtenuibus, antice crassioribus; 

 natibus prominulis, ad apices undulatis ; epidermide lutea, eradiata ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus parvis, acuminatis, erectis, compressis ; lateralibus sublongis 

 subcurvisque; margarita vel purpurea veL salmonis colore tincta et irides- 

 dente. 



Hab. — Lafayette, Georgia. Rev, G. White. 



Unio Cromwellii. — Testa laevi, elliptica, subinflata, valdfe inaequilaterali, 

 postice rotundata, antice rotunda ; valvulis subtenuibus, antice crassiusculis ; 

 natibus subprominentibus, ad apices concentricis plicatis ; epidermide minute 

 striata, fusca vel virenti, radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, compressis, 

 corrugatis, in utroque valvulis duplicibus ; lateralibus sublongis subcurvisque ; 

 margarita purpurescente et valdfe iridescente. 



Bab. — Kiokee Creek, near Albany, Dougherty Co., Georgia. B. M. Crom- 

 well, M. D. 



Unio marginis. — Testa ellipticd, inflatd, valde in^quilaterali, postice et 

 antice rotundata; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus; natibus sub- 

 prominentibus; epidermide striata, fusca, marginata, obsolete radiata, den- 

 tibus cardinalibus parviusculis, valde crenulatis ; lateralibus subcurtis 

 rectisque ; margarita alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Blue Springs, Dougherty Co., Georgia. Bishop Elliott. 



An Ezamination of the Birds of the genus CHRYSOMITRIS, in the Museum of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



BY JOHN CASSIN. 



Genus CHRYSOMITRIS, Boie. 



(Genus Chrysomitris, Boie, Isis, 1828, p. 322.) 



1. Chrysomitris. 



1. Chrysomitris spincs, (-Linnaeus.) 



Fringilla spinus. Linn., Syst. Nat., i. p. 181, (1758.) 

 PI. Enl. 485. Gould, B, of Eur., pi. 197. Naum., B. of Germ., pi. 125. 



1865.] 




90 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Numerous specimens from Europe. Two specimens, male and female, seem 

 to be smaller, and may be C. pistacina, Bonap., Consp. Av., i. p. 515. They 

 are in adult plumage, and are quite identical with C. spinus in all characters 

 except size, and a slightly greater elongation of the bill. Though evidently 

 the preparations of one collector, these two specimens bear no reliable label 

 indicating locality. 



2. Chrysomitris spinescens, Bonaparte. 



Chrysomitris spinescens, Bonap., Consp. Av., i. p. 617, (1850.) 

 "Fringilla spinescens, Licht., Mus. Berol." Bonap. ut supra. 

 Several specimens, labelled South America. Of all of the birds of this 

 group, this species is most nearly related to C. spinus of Europe, and in the 

 greatest degree resembles it in colors. It is sufficiently described in Conspec- 

 tus Avium, as above cited, and can be distinguished readily from any other 

 species, though resembling in colors C. Yarrtllii, (Aud.) The latter is 

 smaller, with the bill larger, and having the yellow parts of the plumage 

 clearer, or less tinged with green. 



3. Chrysomitris baebata, (Molina.) 



Fringillabarbata, Mol., Sagg. Stor. Nat. Chili, (1782), 2d ed.. p. 209, (1810.) 

 Cardueli^ Stanley!, Aud., Syn. B. of N. A., p. 118, (1839.) ' 

 Chrysomitris marginalis, Bonap., Consp. Av., i. p. 517, (1850.) 

 Chrysomitris campestris. Gay, Hist. Chili, (not of Spix, Av. Bras.) 

 Crithagra flavospecularis, Hartl. Naum., 1853, p. 213. 



Aud., B. of Am., oct. ed., iii. pi. 185. Gilliss' Astronom. Exp. Chili, ii. pi. 17. 



Specimens from Chili in the Academy Museum and in the National Muse- 

 -um ; and, through the kindness of Professor Baird, I have also before me the 

 original specimen of C. Stanleyi, Audubon, described and figured by that 

 author as above. The last is either a young male or female, and has the 

 general appearance of specimens collected and prepared by the late Dr. Town- 

 send, several of which Audubon erroneously described as from California. A 

 specimen of the same species, in much more mature plumage, is in the 

 Academy Museum, from Dr. Townsend's collection, and is labelled in his 

 handwriting, " Valpo. Chili, (^, J. K. Townsend." The specimens from Chili 

 in the Academy, and those of Townsend and Audubon, are quite identical, 

 and entitled to all the names above specified. 



The colors of this species .are not fairly represented in Audubon's plate, 

 above referred to, though sufficiently accurate for the recognition of the fe- 

 male, or of the male in imperfect plumage. The plate in Gilliss' Rept. is 

 better, though the transverse band on the wing is unusually pale, and is 

 gene.'"ally yellow. The description by me in the same volume, (as cited 

 above, p. 181,) is correct. Though having the black cap and black throat 

 and general colors of the typical C. spinus, the bill in the present bird is much 

 thicker, and the general organization more robust. The affinities of this 

 species are, however, clearly in this group, but it is not so nearly related to 

 Carduelis spinoidcs, Vigors, of India, as to be properly included in the same 

 genus, which Dr. Cabanis considers probable (Mus. Hein., i. p. IGl). That 

 species, C. spinoides, is quite properly separated from Chrysomitris by that ex- 

 cellent and distinguished ornithologist, and is the type of his genus Hijpacan- 

 this, though in my opinion not fully entitled to generic distinction. Its 

 relations are, I think, to the group Chlorospiza, Bonaparte, and especially to 

 the species C. kawariba, C. sinica, and perhaps others. 



Specimens of this species, from the collection made in Chili by Gilliss' 

 Expedition, have the transverse band on the wing nearly white, as represented 

 in the plate cited above. In all other respects they are identical with others 

 in a collection made in Peru and Chili, and presented by the Hon. John Ran- 

 dolph Clay, late Minister of the United States to the former country. They 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



are identical, also, as stated above, with the types of Audubon's C. Stanleyi, 

 which were undoubtedly collected at Valparaiso, Chili, by Dr. Townsend. 



4. Chrysomitris pincs, (Wilson.) 



Fringilla pinus, Wils. Am. Orn., ii. p. 133, (1810.) 

 Wils. Am. Orn., ii. pi. 17. Aud. B. of Am., pi. 180. Oct. ed., iii. pi. 180. 



Numerous specimens from various localities in North America, but pre- 

 senting no important differences. This species shows in colors but little 

 similarity or near relationship, with any other of this group. It is well known , 

 and a favorite with collectors in the Middle States of this Republic, as one of 

 the specialities of winter shooting, and is best known in its winter plumage. 

 The summer plumage ought to difiFer materially, judging from the seasonal 

 changes that take place in C. (ristis and other species of this group. Speci- 

 mens from Orizaba, Mexico, in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution, 

 seem to be identical with others from the United States, and I fail to dis- 

 cover in any of them the characters of C. macroptera, Du Bus. 



2. Pyrrhomitris. 



5. Cheysomitris cucullata, (Swainson.) 



Carduelis cucullata. Swains., Zool. III., i. p. (not paged, 1820.) 

 Fringilla Cubae, Gerv., Mag, Zool., 1835, p. (not paged.) 

 Swains. Zool. III., i. pi. 7. Mag. Zool., 1835, pi. 44. 



Numerous specimens of both sexes, labelled " Trinidad," and, in one in- 

 stance, " Cayenne ;" and also one specimen in a collection made by Mr. Geo. 

 Robbins, in Venezuela. The last, though in nearly mature plumage, is re- 

 markable for having the transverse band on the wing dull yellow, instead of 

 the usual pale red, and is the only instance of that description of variation 

 that I have seen in this species. 



3. Melanomitris. 



6. Cheysomitris atrata, (D'Orbigny et Lafresnaye.) 



Carduelis atrata, D'Orb. et Lafres., Mag. Zool., 1837, p. 83. 

 D'Orb., Voy. Am. Mer. Ois., pi. 48, fig. 2. 



One specimen in adult plumage, from Verreaux, and another not mature, 

 from D'Orbigny's collection. The former is almost precisely as given in the 

 figure of D"Orbigny, as cited, but his description is different, and more like 

 the present specimen from his collection, having the under parts from the 

 breast mixed with pale yellow feathers. He says in his description in Voy. 

 Amer. Mer. Ois., p. 364 : " subtus totaflava, gutture, collo, pectore hypochondriis- 

 quefusco striatis." The description in Mag. Zool., as above cited, is different, 

 and applies strictly to the adult bird. 



7. Cheysomitris uropygialis, Sclater. 



Chrysomitris uropygialis, Sclat., Cat. Am. B., p. 125, (1862.) 



Easily distinguished from the preceding by its yellow rump, and by having 

 the entire under parts of the body and under wing coverts yellow. Specimens 

 from Gilliss' Exp. to Chili, now in the National Museum in charge of the 

 Smithsonian Institution, were mistaken by me for the preceding, (C. atratus,) 

 having at that time only the young specimen from D'Orbigny's collection, to 

 which I above allude, and relying on it for my determination of the species. 



8. Chrysomitris Bryantii, nobis. 



Resembling both of the preceding, but smaller, and with the entire upper 

 parts, including the rump, clear lustrous black in the male, and with the 

 head also black. Under parts of body, under wing coverts, aud under tail 



1865.] 




92 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



coverts, yellow. Wing with a large transverse band of yellow, not including 

 the first quill, and not extending longitudinally on the quills, but abruptly 

 defined, (differing in that respect from both C. atratus and C. ^iropygialis.) 

 Quills externally (in the male,) clear lustrous black, without paler margins, 

 internally edged with pale yellow, forming a large spot of that color on the 

 inferior surface of the wing. Sides of body mixed with black feathers. Tail 

 black, all the feathers, except the two in the middle, with their bases yellow. 

 Bill and feet bluish black, under mandible lighter at base. 



Female. Entire upper parts, including the head above, dark green, under 

 parts greenish yellow, middle of abdomen and under tail coverts yellowish 

 white. Wing brownish black, with a large transverse band of yellow, re- 

 stricted, as in the male ; tail brownish black, yellow at base. 



Total length 4|^ to 4J inches, wing 2\ to 2|, tail 1| to If inches, "extent 

 of wings 6^- inches." 



Hab. Dota, Costa Rica. Discovered by Mr. Julian Carmiol. Spec, in 

 Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 



This handsome little species is allied to C atrata and C. uropygialis, and of 

 the same general colors, but is much smaller than either, being little larger 

 than C. mexicana and C. columbiana. It is easily distinguished b}' having the 

 entire head and upper parts uniform lustrous black, and the under parts 

 yellow. The large yellow spots on the wings are restricted, and do not ex- 

 tend longitudinally along the primary quills, as in the preceding and other 

 species. 



This interesting little bird is dedicated to my friend Henry Bryant, M. D., 

 of Boston, Mass., as a slight token of my respect for his many accomplish- 

 ments as a gentleman and naturalist, and in pleasant remembrance of years 

 of uninterrupted friendship. 



4. Sporagra. 



9. Chrysomitris magellanica, CVieillot.) 



Fringilla magellanica, VieilL, Nouv. Diet., xii. p. 168, (1817.) 

 Fringilla icterica, Licht. Verz., p. 26, (1823.) 

 Fringilla campestris, Spix, Av, Bras., ii. p. 48, (1825.) 

 VieilL, Ois. Chant., pi. 30. And., B. of Am., pi. 394. Oct. ed., iii. pi. 182. 

 Numerous specimens from South America, in which there is not so much 

 uniformity of specific characters as is desirable, though I find myself unable 

 to trace sufficient regularity for distinction or separation. In specimens from 

 Southern Brazil the black of the head seems to be more restricted, and ex- 

 tends but slightly on the neck in front, and the light edgings of the quills 

 and wing coverts are nearly obsolete. This appears to be the species figured 

 by Audubon as above, and stated by him to have been obtained in Kentucky. 



10. Chrysomitris notata, (Du Bus.) 



Carduelis notata, Du Bus., Bull. Acad. Bruss., 1847, p. 106. 

 Numerous specimens from Mexico. Resembling the preceding, (C magel- 

 lanica,) but easily distinguished by its deep black wings, without paler 

 edgings, though the extension of the black of the head on the neck in front 

 is by no means a special nor reliable character of this species. Specimens in 

 the collection of the Smithsonian Institution are from Mirador and Orizaba, 

 Mexico, and from Gautemala. 



5. Astragalinus. 



11. Chrysomitris tristis, (Linnaeus.) 



Fringilla tristis, Linn., Syst. Nat., i. p. 181, (1758.) 

 Fringilla Taria, Mull., Syst. Nat., Supp., p. 163, (1776.) 

 Carduelis americana. Rich and Sw., Faun. Bor. Am., ii. p. 268, (1831.) 

 Wils., Am. Orn , i. pi. 1. And., B. of Am., pi. 33. Oct. ed., iii. pi. 181. 

 Buff., PL EnL, 292. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Numerous specimens, all of which are from North America. 



12. Chrysomitris Tarrellii, (Audubon.) 



Carduelis Yarrelli, Aud., Syn. B. of N. A., p. 117, (1839.) 

 Aud., B. of Am., pi. 433, fig. 4, 5. Oct. ed., iii. pi. 184. 



Three specimens, apparently adult male and female and young male, all of 

 which have been labelled in Europe, " Orenoque." Through the kindness of 

 Prof. Baird, I have also before me the original specimen of Audubon, which 

 seems to be entirely identical with the former, except that the quills are 

 edged externally with greenish yellow. This bird is accurately figured by 

 Audubon, as above cited, and is a strongly marked species, though apparently 

 not known to ornithologists. At present I know of no other name for it, 

 though it may have been given in another genus, on account of its thick and 

 strong bill. Audubon's specimen bears no indication of locality, though 

 stated by him to have been from California, which I regard as probably 

 erroneous. 



13. Chrysomitris Lawrbncei, (Cassin.) 



Carduelis Lawrencei, Cass., Proc. Acad., Philada., v. p. 105, (1850.) 



Pr. Acad., Philada., v. pi. 5. 



Now well known as a bird of the western countries of North America, 

 though apparently not found abundantly by collectors. This curious little 

 bird does not intimately resemble any other in its colors or general specific 

 characters. 



6. Fseudomitris. 



14. Chrysomitris psaltria, (Say.) 



Fringilla psaltria, Say, Long's Exp., ii. p. 40, (1823.) 

 Bonap , Am. Orn., i. pi. 6. Aud., B. of Am., pi. 394. Oct. ed., iii. pi. 183. 



Specimens from California. Apparently an abundant species in the western 

 countries of North America; carefully figured by Bonaparte, as above cited, 

 and sufficiently so for recognition by Audubon. The assignment of this 

 species and the two immediately succeeding to this genus, I regard as 

 probably erroneous. 



15. Chrysomitris mexicana, (Swainson.) 

 Carduelis mexicana, Sw., Phil. Mag , 1827, p. 435. 

 Fringilla melanoxantha, Wagl., Isis, 1831, p. 525. 

 Fringilla texensis, Giraud, B. of Tex., p. 21, (1841.) 

 Chrysomitris nana, Bonap., Consp. Av., i. p. 516, (1850.)? 



Baird, U. S. and Mex. Bound. Kept., pi. 16. B. of N. A., pi. 54. Giraud, 

 B. of Tex., pi. 5. 



From Mexico and Lower California. One specimen, labelled " Valparaiso,' ' 

 in the hand-writing of M. Victor Massena. Distinguishable from the next 

 species (C. columbiana,) only by several of the outer tail feathers being white, 

 — a character liable to some variation, several specimens which I assign to 

 this species having only a trace of white, and, in fact, with this character so 

 little developed as to present a difficulty somewhat in specific distinction. 



Specimens of this little bird in the museum of the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion are from Texas and New Mexico, and have also been received from Costa 

 Rica, in the interesting collections of Mr. Julian Carmiol. 



16. Chrysomitris columbiana, Lafresnaye. 



Chrysomitris columbiana, Lafrcs., Rev. Zool., 1843, p. 292. 

 Specimens labelled "Bogota" and " Ameriq. Merid." Singularly like the 

 preceding, but with the tail entirely black. 



1865.] 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The three last species, here given as C. psaltria, C. mezkana, and C. Columbi- 

 ana, and. so given also generally by modern authors, I regard as very probably 

 not belonging to this genus. In my opinion these little birds are more nearly 

 related to the group given by Dr. Sclater as Cyanospizinx, and possibly are 

 entitled to generic distinction. 



June Qth. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-one members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of new species of Fossils from the Marshall Group of 

 Michigan, &c." By Alexander Winchell. 



<' Descriptions of new species of Eocene Tertiary Fossils." By R. 

 P. Whitfield. 



Dr. Leidy exhibited some bones and teeth of Horses from California and 

 Oregon, recently submitted to his examination by Prof. J. D. Whitney. He 

 stated that fossil remains of Horses had been found throughout the length 

 and breadth of the North American continent. They had been obtained from 

 the frozen cliffs of Eschscholtz Bay, in Arctic America, and from Honduras in 

 Central America; from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North 

 and South Carolina, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, Louisiana, Missouri, Ne- 

 braska and Texas. Many of the remains are undistinguishable in anatomical 

 character from corresponding bones and teeth of the domestic horse ; others 

 are comparatively large, though not larger than in the largest variety of the 

 latter, but their molar teeth exhibit a more complex folding of the enamel 

 than is seen in the domestic horse. Dr. L. considers it probable that the 

 fossils represent several extinct species, all differing from the living horse, 

 though this was not a matter of demonstration. 



Most of the remains from California, among them an entire skull, are un- 

 changed in appearance, and are uudistinguishable from corresponding parts 

 of the Mustang, or recent Indian Horse of the West, though taken from au- 

 riferous gravel a considerable depth from the surface. 



Among the California specimens are several molar teeth having more the 

 general appearance of true fossils than the others, though they are also but 

 slightly changed. Two of them are second upper molars from different indi- 

 viduals, of more robust proportions than any of the recent.looking specimens, 

 and equal in this respect to the corresponding teeth found anywhere. One 

 of the teeth was taken from auriferous clay at a depth of thirty feet below 

 the surface, in Tuolumne County, and is slightly infiltrated with oxide of 

 iron. The other was obtained from a bed of asphaltum, in company with a 

 last lower molar, near Beuna Vista Lake, and is impregnated with bitumen. 

 These two upper molars, strongly resembling each other, diflFer from the more 

 recent looking specimens, and from the corresponding teeth of the domestic 

 horse, in the remarkable degree of simplicity of the enamel folding, as seen 

 on the triturating surfaces. They differ in another circumstance, which is 

 perhaps accidental, or at least was dependent on the peculiar character of 

 the food, that is to say, the triturating surface, in both specimens, Ib remarka- 

 bly flat, whereas, in the horse ordinarily it is worn into two transverse hills. 

 Dr. L. was disposed to view these teeth as representing a species different 

 from any heretofore indicated, and proposed for it the name of Equus ocei- 

 dentalis. The measurement of the specimens are as follows : Antero-pos- 

 terior diameter of triturating surface 14| lines, 15] lines; transverse diameter 

 of do. 12J lines, 13J lines. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



June 13<A. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice President, in the Chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



June 20th. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" New species of Mordellidae." By C. A. Helmuth, M. D. 



" Note on the species of Myodites," and " Notes on the species of 

 Harpalus, &c." By John L. LeConte, M. D. 



" On a new Genus of Serraninae." By Theo. Gill. 



The death was announced of Mr. William Parker Foulke, member 

 of the Academy, on the 18th inst. 



By resolution, Mr. Aubrey H. Smith was requested to prepare a 

 biographical notice of Mr. Foulke for publication in the Proceedings. 



Dr. Leidy directed the attention of the members to some shells, bones, 

 fragments of pottery, &c., which had been recently obtained at Cape Hen- 

 lopen. He stated that, during the last week, he had accompanied a small 

 party in a steamboat excursion to the Delaware Breakwater. The boat 

 hi.ving anchored inside the latter, he went ashore opposite the little town of 

 Lewes and strolled along the beach towards the light-house. About half a 

 mile inland, and about a mile from Lewes, he observed large accumulations 

 of shells. These extended over a space of about half a mile, at the foot of a 

 high sand dune which had encroached upon and partly destroyed a forest of 

 pine and cedar trees. The accumulations of shells consist mainly of those 

 of oysters and clams, many of large size, but most of them small, and gene- 

 rally more or less comminuted, as if by the action of fire. The loose white 

 sand of the piles, when scraped from the surface, exhibited intermingled 

 black pulverulent matter, apparently carbonaceous, and in some places pieces 

 of charcoal. Many fragments of rude pottery were strewed among the shells, 

 being of the sort made by the Indians, and consisting of baked clay with 

 powdered shells. Some of the fragments are coarsely ornamented on the ex- 

 terior. On scraping the sand and shells at random, a clay smoking-pipe 

 was discovered. The specimen, exhibited by Dr. Leidy, is about four inches 

 long, and has a conical bowl, bent at an obtuse angle from a thick stem and 

 ornamented with bands and triangles of points. A few rude arrow heads 

 and many smajl chips of yellow and red jasper were found among the heaps. 

 In one of the piles portions of a human .skeleton were discovered, of which 

 Dr. L. exhibited fragments of the skull, jaws, and a humerus. 



Dr. L. observed that, notwithstanding the interest of this North American 

 Indian " Kjokkenmodding, ' or kitchen refuse heap, he had but an hour to 

 examine it. 



The part of Cape Henlopen on which the accumulations are situated is 

 composed of loose white sand with few pebbles or shells, and is remarkably 

 barren. Oysters and clams are not now found living within some miles of 

 the shell heaps. The Captain of the steamboat, who lived at Lowes, stated 

 that the heaps were known to the neighboring people under the name of 

 Indian heaps. 



1865.] 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



June llih. 



Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirteen members present. 



On Report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



New Species of MO£DELLID.£ collected in Illinois. 

 BY C. A. HELMUTH, M. D. 



MORDELLA. 



M. lunulata. Anal style long, slender. Last joint of maxillary palpi 

 scalene triangular. Black; head, margins of thorax, scutellum, basal margin 

 of elytra, a humeral lunule and suture cinereous pubescent, beneath varied 

 with cinereous and black. -18. 



MORDELLISTENA. 



M. i n t e r ra i X t a. Hind tibiae with two equal ridges ; first joint of hind 

 tarsi with two, second with one ridge. Black; mouth, front legs and elytra 

 piceous ; pubescence of elytra dark brown, with light hairs intermixed. "10. 



M. auricoma. Hind tibiae with two equal ridges; first joint of hind 

 tarsi with three, second with two ridges. Black, linear ; pubescence brown 

 sericeous ; head, antennse, anterior half of thorax, front and middle legs fer- 

 ruginous. -11. 



M. n i g e r r i m a. Hind tibiae with two ridges, the anterior one extending 

 across the tibia; first joint of hind tarsi with three, second with two ridges. 

 Narrow, entirely black ; pubescence grayish. '09. 



Note on the Species of MTGDITES Latr. inhabiting the United States. 

 BY JOHN L. LE CONTE, M. D. 



The species of this genus are found on the flowers of Solidago, in the 

 months of August and September. As they are not much sought after by 

 collectors, several species probably yet remain to be discovered. 



The following analytical table will separate the species now before me. 

 The measurements are decimals of an English inch : 



Abdomen yellow; podex piceous ; elytra yellow, immaculate. 



•36. Vertex prominent, acutely carinated 1. scaber Lee. 



•30. Vertex prominent, not carinated 2. s e m if la v u s n. «/. 



Abdomen of both sexes black. 



•24. Vertex obtusely rounded, elytra yellow. 3. 1 u t e i p e n n i s n. *p. 



•28. Vertex prominent, slightly carinated ; elytra sparsely punctured, with 

 the base and outer margin black 4. fasciatus Lee. 



•20. Vertex acutely prominent and carinated ; elytra densely punctured, 

 with the base and outer margin blackish 5. W a 1 s h i i n. sp, 



•12 — -14. Vertex slightl}' but acutely prominent; elytra fuscous; middle 

 and tip pale , 6. stylopides Newman. 



1. M. 3 c a b e r. Niger, confertim subtiliter punctatus, vertice conico, apice 

 acute breviter carinato ; thorace linea dorsali tenuissima elevata ; elytris 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



politis, luteis parce subtiliter punctatis ; abdomen (feminac) flavum, fortiter 

 punctatum, segmentis anticis dorsalibus fere l*vibus, ultimo dorsali piceo : 

 pedes nigri. Long. -35. 



Myodes scaler Lee. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. 6, 6T. 



One mutilated female, from Creek Boundary Survey. Collected by S. W. 

 Woodhouse, M. D. The antennae are wanting. The wings as usual, in the 

 females have a broad fuscous band near the tip. 



2. M. s e m i f 1 a V u s. Niger, subtiliter minus dense punctatus, vertice ob- 

 tuse conico, apice hand carinato ; thorace basi rotundato, liuea dorsali nulla ; 

 elytris politis laevibus, flavis, callo humerali obscuro ; abdomen (feminae) 

 flavum parce subtiliter punctatum, apice piceum ; pedibus testaceo variega- 

 gatis. Long -30. 



Maryland. One specimen given me by Rev. J. G. Morris. 



The antennas are wanting. The anterior feet are entirely testaceous, with 

 the base of the thighs dusky ; the middle thighs are dusky, and the tibise 

 and tarsi testaceous ; the hind feet are entirely dusky. The wings have a 

 broad smoky band near the tip. 



3. M. 1 u t e i p e n n i s. Niger, capite, tlioraceque minus dense punctatis, 

 vertice tumido, apice rotundato, baud carinato ; thorace plaga laevi utrinque 

 ornato ; basi rotundato, medio minute emarginato ; elj'tris politis flavis, basi 

 fortius, apice parce punctatis, callo humeraU fusco, abdomen subtiliter minus 

 dense punctatum ; antennae fuscse, pedes anteriores flavo-testacei, postici 

 nigri. Long. -24. 



New York. Two females given me by Mr. Koestlin. Very distinct by the 

 obtusely rounded vertex. The wings have a broad fuscous band near the 

 tip. 



4. M. fas ci at us. Niger, subtiliter dense punctatus, et breviter pubes- 

 cens, vertice conico, apice carinato; thorace linea dorsali brevi impressa ; 

 basi late rotundata medio paulo emarginata ; elytris politis, parce punctatis, 

 flavis, basi margineque externa usque ad medium nigris ; abdomen fortiter 

 punctatum; antennae fuscse ; pedes picei tarsis testaceis ; antici testaceo- 

 marginati. Long. -20. 



Leconte, Say's Entom., Writings, 2, 162, 

 Dorlhesia fasciata Say, Journ. Ac. Nat. Sc. 3, 274. 

 Two females from Pennsylvania, 



5. M. Walsh ii. Niger subtiliter dense punctatus et breviter pubescens, 

 vertice anguste elevato et carinato ; thorace plaga parva laevi utrinque or- 

 nato, liaea dorsali nulla, ad basin rotundato ; elj'tris subopacis, rugulosis, 

 subtilius punctatis, flavis, basi margineque externo ad medium nigris ; ab- 

 domen dense punctatum ; antenuiB fuscae ; testaceae pedes fusco-testacei ; fe- 

 moribus anterioribus basi, posticisque fuscis. Long. -20. 



One male. Rock Island, •Illinois. B. D. Walsh, Esq. The wings are en- 

 tirely hyaline. Distinct from M. fas ci at us by the vertex being less 

 prominent, and therefore appearing more acute at the tip, by the base of the 

 thorax being not eraarginate at the middle, and by the finer and denser punc- 

 tuation of the elytra, ^ , 



e. M. s t y 1 o p i d e 8. Niger, capite punctato, vertice medio submucronato ; 

 thorace confertim subtilius punctato, plaga magna lajvi utrinque signato ; 

 elytris subtiliter rugosis, punctatis, nebula media, margineque apicali palli- 

 dis, ore pedibusque obscure testaceis; antennis fusco-testaceis. Long. '12 — 

 •14. 



Myodes stylopides Newman, Ent. Mag. 5, 376. 



? Dorlhesia flavicornis Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sc. 3, 274. 



Myodes fiavicornis Lee, Say's Eut. Writings, 2, 162, 



Washington, D. C. ; Baron Osteu Sackeu ; Canada, Mr. William Couper. 



The front and mouth are usually dark testaceous ; the vertex has a small 



1865.] 7 




^8 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMT OF 



acute tubercle ; the punctures of the thorax are fine, and there is a smooth 

 space each side of the middle. The elytra are finely rugous, sparsely punc- 

 tured, and vary in color, from black to fuscous ; there is a pale band at the 

 middle, sometimes reduced to a sutural spot ; the apical margin is also pale. 

 The pectus and sides of the abdomen are tolerably coarsely punctured. The 

 antennae are fuscous, sometimes paler ; the feet are dark testaceous. The 

 wings of the male are transparent ; in the female there is a subapical fuscous 

 cloud as usual. 



In none of my specimens are the antennae bright yellow, as described by 

 Say, and I therefore suppose his description to refer to a species unknown to 

 me. 



t. M, americanus Guerin, Diet. Class. d'Hist. Nat. xi. 369. Icon. R^gne 

 An. tab. 34, fig. 5. 



Unknown to me ; seems by the figure to be an entirely black species, about 

 the size of M, f a s c i a t u s. 



ITotes on the Species of HAKPALTIS inhabiting America, north of Mexico. 

 BY JOHN L. LE CONTE, M. D. 



My attention has been recently drawn to the essay on classification of the 

 Harpalini of Denmark, by Schiodte,* and I have attempted by aid of the ideas 

 therein 'developed to group our species in a natural manner. In doing this, 

 I have noticed peculiarities in some of them, which seem to show that 

 the characters used in the essay quoted do not possess the value that has 

 been attributed to them by the author. 



Thus, for example, in the first division (genuine Harpalini,) Bradycellus is 

 separated from all the other genera by the last joint of the palpi being atten- 

 uate, and the body smooth ; in the other genera the last joint of the palpi is 

 fusiform, and the body reticulate. 



I find that this is correct, as far as relates to the genera allied to Aniso- 

 dactylus; but fails in the others; in Stenomorphus and Gynandropus the 

 surface is not reticulate, while in Gynandrotarsus it is quite distinctly so. 

 In most species of the group (or perhaps genus) Selenophorus the surface is 

 reticulate, but in the iridescent species (o p a 1 i n u s Lee, gagatinus Dej'., 

 and i r i p e n n i s Say,) no trace of reticulation can be seen ; in S. f a t u u 3 

 Lee. it can iscarcely be observed. 



Similar exceptions may be found among the typical Harpalus : thus in H. 

 amputatus Say, the female is very finely reticulate, and the male is 

 polished ; the reticulation is scarcely perceptible in the male of H. fa 1 1 a x 

 Lee., megacephalus Lee, while in both sexes ofH. spadiceus Dej., 

 testaceus Lee. and n i t i d u 1 u s Chaud., the surface is polished. 



So in the Stenolophini, in which the body i» declared to be smooth, a 

 similar exception is seen in the finely reticulate S. carbonarius. 



The fundamental division of the species of Harpalus into two groups, (I. 

 Setse ambulatorise abdominales pilis nuUis intermixtae ; setae ambulatoriai 

 femorales parciores et graciliores, foveolis setigeris minutis, and II. Setae 

 ambulatoriae abdominales pilis longioribus inasqualibus intermixtae : setae 

 ambulatoriee femorales copiosae validiores, foveolis setigeris plerumque pro- 

 fundius impressis,) seems to me also defective when applied to our species. 

 I find that the ambulatoriai setae of the anterior thighs are more numerous 

 and stronger in the males than in the females, and that the use of this char- 

 acter will be likely to lead to error. In some species I observe some long 

 bristles about midway between the ambulatoriai setae and the side of the 

 abdomen, which may serve to group the species in a secondary manner. I 

 have termed them accessory setae. 



* Kriiyer, Tids. 3d aer. Tol. i. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



The paraglo3S£e of the genuine Harpalus are rather thick, not longer than 

 the ligula, and are furnished on the sides with a few bristles ; the ligula is 

 broader at the tip and truncate, with the side angles acute. In Selenophorus 

 the paraglossae are flat, longer than the ligula, without lateral bristles ; and 

 the ligula is narrow, not dilated at the tip. I am therefore inclined to believe 

 that Selenophorus should be considered a genus, and not a group of Harpa- 

 lus, as I have recently placed it. 



The species of Harpalus in my collection may be grouped as follows : (the 

 measurements are in decimals of the English inch.) 



A. Elytra very deeply sinuate at tip ; outer angle acute and dentiform in the 



female ; third interval without dorsal puncture ; abdomen finely punc- 

 tured and pubescent towards the base. Body elongate. 

 •56 — -76. Thorax narrowed behind, side margin depressed, base scarcely 

 punctured ; color dark ferruginous, elytra piceous, deeply striate. Sandy 



places ; Middle States, Kansas 1. erraticus Say. 



•56 — -66. Thorax narrowed behind, margin not depressed, base punctu- 

 late, hind angles cot rounded at tip; color nigro-piceous, antenna; and legs 

 ferruginous. New Mexico 2, retractus Lee. 



B. Elytra truncate, or deeply sinuate at tip ; anterior tibise with the outer 



angle prolonged behind, forming a small tooth ; abdomen sparsely punc- 

 tured and pubescent. 



a. Elytra truncate ; armed with a sutural spine in the female ; dorsal 

 puncture distinct. 



•38 — -40. Thorax narrowed behind, angles rounded, basal fovcse small, 

 punctured; color beneatb dark piceous or black, above metallic blue or 

 green, rarely black. Kansas, New, Mexico, Saskatchewan, Montreal, Canada. 



3. amputatus Say. 



b. Elytra transversely sinuate, outer angle acute in female : dorsal punc- 

 ture wanting ; sides of elytra finely punctured and pubescent. 



•38 — -40. Thorax narrowed behind, hind angles not rounded ; basal foveae 

 small, finely punctured; color beneath dark piceous or black; legs ferrugin- 

 ous or black; above metallic green or coppery, rarely black. Middle States, 

 Canada, Newfoundland 4. viridiaeneus Beauv. 



C. Elytra obliquely, but slightly sinuate at tip ; abdomen without acces- 



sory setae, finely punctured and pubescent towards the base. 



a. Mentum tooth completely wanting : elytra without dorsal puncture ; 

 feet black. 



•80 — -94. Thorax narrowed anteriorly, side margins broadly depressed, 

 and basal fove^ densely punctulate. Middle, Southern and Western States, 

 Canada, Kansas 5. caliginosus Say, 



b. Mentum tooth more or less distinct; elytra without dorsal puncture ; 

 antennse and feet ferruginous. 



*Side margin of thorax depressed, scarcely wider behind ; sides and 

 base punctured, 

 ■j- Thorax nearly square ; elytra not punctulate. 

 •50. Hind angles slightly rounded .; sides feebly rounded. Middle States. 



6. f a u n u s Say. 



•42 — •48. Hind angles scarcely rounded ; sides more rounded in front. 



New York 7. convivus n. ap. 



f J Thorax slightly narrowed behind ; hind angles not rounded. 



•54 — -58. Elytra punctulate, at least at the sides. Illinois. 



8. vaga ns n. *p. 



1865.] 




]00 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



** Thorax with base and side margin densely punctulate. 

 •50 — -62. Thorax narrowed in front; sides strongly depressed; elytra 

 sparsely punctulate at the sides. Atlantic States, Kansas. 



9. pensylv aniens. 

 Thorax slightly narrowed behind; sides feebly depressed; 

 •54 — •66. Hind angles less obtuse ; elytra not punctulate at the sides. 



Atlantic States, Kansas 10. compar Lee. 



•54 — ^64. Hind angles more obtuse ; elytra finely punctured at the sides. 



Pennsylvania, New York 11. longicollis Lee. 



•42 — •48. Smaller, hind angles of thorax less obtuse ; elytra not punctu- 

 late at the sides. Atlantic States 12. erythropus Dtj. 



"** Thorax scarcely punctured at base ; sides not distinctly depressed. 

 ■34. Head very large ; hind angles of thorax rounded ; basal fovese slightly 

 punctured ; elytra slightly bronzed. Lake Superior. 



13. megacephalus Lee. 



c. Mentum tooth more or less distinct ; elytra with dorsal puncture. 

 * Antennae and feet ferruginous ; bead of prothorax yellowish. 

 J Thorax distinctly narrowed behind ; sides not depressed. 

 •38. Base of thorax not punctured ; elytra not reticulate. Middle States. 



14. s p a d i c e u s I)ej. 

 •j-f Thorax not narrowed behind ; body oblong oval. 

 •38. Elytra feebly bronzed ; base of thorax punctured. Russian America, 



Saskatchewan 15. fulvilabris Mann. 



Elytra not bronzed ; 

 § Sides of thorax narrowly but distinctly depressed ; (basal fovea; 

 vaguely defined.) 



• 34 — -42. Hind angles slightly rounded ; base finely punctured. Atlantic 

 States, New Mexico 16 fa 11 ax Lee. 



• 30 — ^42. Hind angles not rounded ; base punctured ; (epipleurae always 

 ferruginous. Canada, Minnesota, Winnipeg 17. pleuriticus Kirhy. 



•30 — •42. Hind angles rounded; base scarcely punctured ; epipleurae gene- 

 rally dark. Atlantic States, Canada, Kansas 18. h e rb i v a gu s Say. 



•32 — •Se. Hind angles scarcely rounded ; basal fove« sparsely punctulate ; 

 knees blackish ; Russian America, Oregon 19. somnolentus Z>e/. 



W Sides of thorax scarcely depressed ; base not punctured. 

 •38. Hind angles rectangular ; not rounded. Kansas. 



20. ventralis Lee. 

 jfl Thorax narrowed in front ; body nearly elliptical. 

 •34. Sides of thorax feebly depressed ; elytra reticulate. Pennsylvania, 



Kansas, Ft. Simpson 21. op ac i p e n n i s Hald. 



■ 26 — -30. Sides of thorax not depressed ; elytra not reticulate. Southern 

 and Western States, Kansas 22. nitidulus Chaud. 



** Feet piceous or black ; or at least thighs dark ; bead of prothorax 



not paler. 

 Thorax narrowed in front; intercoxal process of abdomen nearly 

 smooth. 

 •30. Body elliptical; sides of thorax not depressed ; elytra of male not re- 

 ticulate. Kansas, Louisiana 23. ellipsis Lte. 



•30 — -44. Body longer oval ; sides of thorax feebly depressed. California, 



Oregon 24. cau t u s Dej. 



Thorax not narrowed in front; intercoxal process of abdomen punctulate : 



I Head decidedly narrower than the thorax. 

 Thorax not very transverse ; base punctured ; 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 101 



. -37. Hind angles of thorax slightly obtuse, not rounded ; (tibiae and tarsi 

 ferruginous.) Lake Superior 25. in n oc u u s Xec. 



Thorax strongly transverse; 



Hind angles of thorax obtuse; scarcely rounded at tip ; base punctured ; 



'40. Sides of thorax less strongly rounded ; (elytra of female without sutu- 

 ral spine.) Saskatchewan 26. carbonatus Lee, 



•39 — -46. Sides of thorax more strongly rounded ; (elytra of female with 

 distinct sutural spine.) Lake Superior... 27. rufimanus Lee. 



•56. Hind angles of thorax obtuse, rounded at tip ; base scarcely punctured, 

 Colorado Terr 28. mo nt an us «. sp. 



•52 — -58 Hind angles of thorax flattened, rectangular not rounded ; base 

 sparsely pucctulate. Lake Superior 29. Lewisiin. «p. 



f f Head very large, scarcely narrower than the thorax. 

 •48 — 'GO. Sides of thorax distinctly depressed. Lake Superior. 



30. la ti c e p s Lee. 

 •56. Sides of thorax not depressed. Illinois 31. v 1 d u u s n. «/>. 



D. Elytra very slightly sinuate at tip, (except in 39 ,) abdomen with accessory 



ambulatorial setffi, proceeding from distinct punctures. 



a. Mentum tooth more or less distinct. 



* Elytra with dorsal puncture; antennae concolorous, reddish brown, 

 f Mentum tooth very small; (larger species of dark color, with the 



elytra reticulate in both sexes.) 



Base of thorax smooth, or scarcely punctulate ; sides slightly 

 depressed. 

 •58 — '64. Body oblong oval ; elytra of female with sutural spine. Oregon. 



32. fraternus Lee. 

 •46. Body oblong aval ; sutural spine of female obsolete. Kansas. 



33. funestus Lee. 

 •48 — -54. Body broader ; thorax slightly narrowed behind ; elytra of fe- 

 male with sutural spine. New Mexico and Colorado 34. o b 1 it u s Lee. 



Sides of thorax not depressed; feet ferruginous. 

 "40. Hind angles obtuse, slightly rounded ; base nearly smooth. Colorado. 



35. fu rti vu s 7J. sp. 



•45. Hind angles subrectangular, slightly rounded at tip ; base of thorax 



punctulate. Nebraska 36. stupidus Lee. 



f f Mentum tooth large, prominent ; smaller species of brown color,'paler 



beneath ; elytra of male smooth ; of female scarcely reticulate. 

 •30. Sides of thorax not depressed. New Mexico, Kansas. 



37. desertus Lee. 

 •30. Sides of thorax depressed, base punctured. Kansas. 



38. 1 uc i d us r„ sp. 

 ** Elytra with dorsal puncture, tip much more distinctly sinuate; 



antennae paler at base. 

 •36. Body broad, hind angles of thorax scarcely rounded; sides slightly de- 

 pressed. Oregon, Idaho, Winnepeg 39. o b e s u 1 u s Lee. 



*** Elytra without dorsal puncture ; antennae paler at base. 

 •35. Thorax not narrowed behind, sides not depressed. Lake Superior, 



Canada 40. vari cornis Lee. 



b. Mentum tooth entirely wanting ; elytra not reticulated ; hind anglea 

 of thorax rectangular. 



* Elytra without dorsal puncture. 



•42. Body aniformly testaceous, oblong oval. Iowa, Illinois. 



41. testae ens Lee. 

 1865.] 7* 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Ot 



** Elytra -with dorsal puncture. 

 •35. Body broad, piceous ; thorax and elytra green bronzed. Texas. 



42. gravis Lee. 



The following species are unknown to me : 



H. 1 o n gi o r Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am. 4, 43. Found in Lat. 54°. Perhaps H. 

 T a g a n s Lee. 



H. basilaris Kirby, ibid. 41. Found in Lat. 54^. Seems allied to E. 

 obesulus Zee, but the trochanters in the latter are not dark yellow, 

 nor are the elytra chestnut black. 



H. ochropus Kirby, ibid. 42, is perhaps H. desertus Lee. 



H. albionicus Mann., Bull. Mosc. 1843, 213, agrees with immature speci- 

 mens of H. ca utus LJcj., in my collection. Not having seen atypical 

 specimen, I do not venture to propose the synonym. 



H. c u r t a tu s Mann., ibid. 1853, 124. Russian America. 



H. d u 1 c i c ol 1 i s Fer^e, Rev. Zool. 1841, 44. Texas. Probably an imma- 

 ture form of Anisodactylus ellipticus Lee. 



H. depressicollis 3Iolseh., BuW. llosc. 1860, 2, 136. California. 



H. alternans Mo'sch., ibid. 1845, 2, 343. California. 



Descriptions of new Species. 



7. H. c n V i V u s. Elongato-oblongus, nigro-piceus, antennis palpis pedi- 

 busque ferrugineis; thorace latitudine breviore, lateribus anguste fortiter de- 

 pressis punctatis, antice magis rotundatis, margine summo, ferrugineo angulis 

 posticis fere rectis, foveis basalibus rotundatis, profundis punciatis ; elytris 

 reticulatis profunde striatis, puucto dorsali nullo ; subtus piceus, abdomine 

 rufescente, inter et post coxas parce punctulato. Long. -42 — -48. 



One pair from New York. Related to H. f au n u s, but the thorax is more 

 rounded on the sides in front, distinctly transverse, very slightly narrowed 

 behind with the basal foveas deeper. 



8. H. vag an s. Elongato-oblongus, subtus rufo piceus, supra nigro-piceus, 

 antennis, palpis pedibusque ferrugineis : thorace latitudine paulo breviore, 

 postice paulo angustato, lateribus anguste depressis punctatis, antice magig 

 rotundatis, margine summo ferrugineo, angulis posticis obtusis hand rotun- 

 datis, basi dense punctato, foveis profundis vage definitis ; elytris reticulatis 

 profunde striatis, puncto dorsali nullo, interstitiis feminae omnibus, mans 

 externis confertim puuctulatis. Long. -54 — -58. 



One pair. Western States. Quite distinct by the characters given above. 

 Seems related to, and perhaps identical with H. longior Kirby. 



11. H. longicollis Lee, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. 4, 39fi. 



I indicated this species on a single male specimen found at New York, and 

 subsequently considered it as probably an aberrant form of H. c o m p a r, but 

 Mr. Ulke has recently fouud it abundantly in the mountains of Pennsylvania. 

 The characters in the table as well as those formerly given by me, will en- 

 able it to be recognized, and it is, moreover, much narrower in form than H. 

 c m p a r. 



12. H. erythropus Dej. This species seems to differ from H. c o m p a r 

 only by the smaller size, and by the hind angles of the thorax being a little 

 less obtuse. I have some doubt about the validity of these characters as 

 specific differences. 



25. H. m o n t a n u s. Oblongo-ovalis niger, antennis palpisque piceo-rufis, 

 thorace capite latiore, latitudine sesqui breviore, lateribus rotundatis, parum 

 depressis, obsolete parce puuctulatis basi fere laevi, foveis parvis, angulis 

 posticis obtusis apice rotundatis ; elytris subtiliter reticulatis, feminas opaci- 

 usculis, striatis, interstitiis planis, 3io puncto postico impresso ; abdomine 

 Vone coxas subtiliter, inter coxas vix punctulato. Long. '56. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 103 



Colorado Territorj'. One pair given me by Dr. S. Lewis. The suture of 

 the female is armed with a small spine. Resembles in appeararice H. f^a- 

 t e r n u s Afc, but besides minor differences it is readily distinguished by the 

 absence of setigerous punctures between the ambulatorial seta3 of the abdo- 

 domen and the sides. 



26. H. Lewisii. Oblongo-ovalis, niger, antennis palpisque piceo-rufis, 

 illis articulo Imo nigricante ; tliorace capite paulo latiore, latitudine plus 

 sesqui breviore postice paulo angustato, lateribus rotundatis, parum depres- 

 sis, basique fere laevibus, angulis posticis subrectis, apice baud rotundatis, 

 elytris subtiliter reticulatis, feminse opacis, striatis, intertitiis planis, 3io 

 puncto postico impresso, abdomiue pone et inter coxas parce punctulato. 

 Long. -52— -58. 



Marquette, Lake Superior. Collected and given to me by Dr. S. Lewis, to 

 whom I take pleasure in dedicating this fine species. Also found in Canada. 



The under surface of the abdomen and the legs in the specimens examined 

 is piceous, but in more mature individuals will perhaps be found black. 

 The apex of the suture of the female in PL m o n t a n u s, L e w i s i i, r u f i- 

 manus, laticeps, viduus and f r a t e.r n u s, is armed with a small but 

 distinct spine, of which no trace is seen in H. c a r b o n a t u s. Of H. i n- 

 n c u u s, I have but one specimen, a male. 



31. H. viduus. Ovalis, niger, antennis palpisque ferrugineis, thorace 

 capite parum latiore, antrorsum subangustato, lateribus baud depressis, 

 angulis posticis apice rotundatis, basi laevi, foveis parvis ; elytris reticulatis, 

 feminjE sericeo-opacis, interstitiis planis. Bio puncto postico impresso; abdo- 

 mine inter et pone coxas parce punctato. Long. -56. 



One female ; Rock Island, Illinois ; B. D. Walsh, Esq. Differs from H. 

 1 a t i c e p s by the hind angles of the thorax being rounded at the apex, and 

 by the head being not quite so broad. 



32. H. fraternus. This species is very closely allied to H. f un es t u s 

 and b 1 it u s, but with specimens of each before me I am able to note the 

 following differences : 



H. fraternus, thorax near the basal foveae feebly and sparsely punctu- 

 late, scarce!}- perceptibly narrowed behind ; elytra more than 2 J times longer 

 than the thorax, nearly equally shining in both sexes ; sutural spine of female 

 distinct. (5 specimens, Oregon.) 



H. oblitus, thorax distinctly narrowed behind, basal foveas scarcely 

 punctulate ; elytra less than 2| times longer than the thorax; elytra more 

 opake in the female than in the male ; sutural spine of female distinct. Body 

 broader and more oblong than in H. fraternus. (5 specimens, Kansas 

 and New Mexico.) 



H. f u n e s t u s, of the same form as 11. f r ate r n u s, but smaller, with 

 the sides of the thorax more distinctly depressed, and the suture of the fe- 

 male not armed with a spine at the tip. (5 specimens, Kansas and Ne- 

 braska.) 



35. H. furtivus. Oblongo-ovalis, nigro-piecus, nitidus, subtus piceus, 

 antennis palpis pedibusque piceo-ferrugineis ; thorace latitudine fere duplo 

 breviore, lateribus rotundatis, hand deplanatis, angulis posticis obtusis sub- 

 rotundatis, basi rugoso, baud punctato, foveis parvis, lincaribus ; elytris 

 (maris) thorace baud latioribus, vix reticulatis, interstitiis planis, puncto 

 postico dorsali impressis ; abdomen setis acccssoribus distinctis, ad basin 

 pone coxas punctulatum, inter coxasjaeve ; mcntum dente minuto armatum. 

 Long. -40. 



Colorado Territory. One male kindly given me by Dr. S. Lewis. Seems 

 most nearly related to H. stupidus in characters, although differing ia 



1865.] 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



form. The appearance is very similar to H. f al lax Lec.^ but the accessory 

 setae of the abdomen enable it to be at once distinguished. 



38. H. 1 u c i d u s. Longior ovalis, piceus, nitidus, corpore subtus, antennis 

 pedibusque pallidioribus ; thoracelatitudine fere duplo breviore, lateribus de- 

 planatis antice rotundatis, angulis posticis rectis rotundatis, basi usque ad 

 latera punctato, foveis basalibus vagis ; elytris pernitidis (maris) baud reti- 

 culatis, puncto dorsali distincto ; abdomen setis accessoribus distinctis, basi 

 pone et inter coxas parce punctatum ; mentum dente magno armatum. Long. 

 ■30. 



One specimen. Nebraska, near the Rocky Mountains. Of the same form 

 as H. d e s e r t u s, but with the base of the thorax punctured and the sides 

 distinctly depressed. 



39. H. obesulus. In the list of North American Coleoptera, published 

 by the Smithsonian Institution, I referred this species to Bradycellus. The 

 examination of male specimens proves that the middle tarsi are widely dila- 

 ted in that sex. In one specimen from Lake Winnipeg, the palpi have the 

 last joint singularly impressed and concave towards the tip, which thus ap- 

 pears pointed when viewed in a certain direction. It is easily distinguished 

 from the other species having accessory ventral setae and by the elytra being 

 quite distinctly sinuate obliquely at the tip. 



On a new genus of SEB2AITIN2E:. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



Genus TRISOTROPIS Gill. 



Body compressed, very oblong and subfusiform, with the caudal peduncle 

 oblong and moderately contracted behind. 



Scales small, regularly imbricated. 



Lateral line parallel with the dorsal outline. 



Head moderate, oblong-rhomboid, wkh the profile gradually decurved to 

 the snout, and the lower jaw nearly rectilinear. Eyes oval, moderate, situated 

 entirely in the anterior half of the head, and close to the profile. Nostrils ; 

 anterior small, simple ; posterior large, divided inside by a horizontal ridge 

 into an upper and lower chamber. Freorbital hone narrower than eye. Pre- 

 optrculum far behind eyes, minutely serrated behind ; operculum with three 

 spines ; the middle continued from an oblique rib on the inner surface of the 

 bone. Scales extending over the whole head, except the preorbital region, 

 and also on the jaws. 



Mouth rather large, with the cleft moderately oblique ; supramaxillaries 

 continued backwards beyond eye. 



Teeth of the upper jaw in the outer row moderate, little curved inwards, 

 with one or two canine teeth on each side in front ; within, moveable and re- 

 cumbent, on the sides pauciserial, small inwards ; in front enlarged and 

 somewhat barbed at the points. In the ^ojt^er jaw biserial on the sides; those 

 of the outer row fixed, moderate and erect ; those of the inner larger, move- 

 able, and somewhat barbed ; in front, on each side, a canine. 



Dorsal fin with its spinous portion depressed behind, generally slightly con- 

 vex, considerably larger than the soft, and with eleven (exceptionally 10 — 12) 

 rather slender spines ; soft portion oblong, with about sixteen to eighteen 

 rays. 



Anal fin under the middle of the soft dorsal, higher in front than behind, 

 with the margin convex, and with three graduated spines and about eleven 

 (10 — 12) rays. 



Caudal oblong, slightly emarginated behind. 



Pectoral fins moderate, convex behind. 



("June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Ventral fins under or in front of pectorals, angular externally, attached by 

 a small axillar membrane to the breast. 



The skull differs from that of Epincphelm {Serranus gifjas C. V., S. morio C.V., 

 == S. erythrogaster Dekay, S. lunulatus C. V., S. striatus Poey ex Bl., <S^. remotus 

 Poey — skulls known — &c.,) by the wider interorbital area, the parallelism 

 and continuation of the lateral crests forward to the middle of the orbits, 

 inclosing an elongated parallelogram, the surface of which, especially be- 

 tween the orbits, is more uniform ; the absence of a frontal crest ; the simple 

 curvature or straightness of the naso-vomerine ridge and absence of the 

 angle at the suture between the nasals and vomer. 



This genus is recognizable externally by the oblong form, the peculiar 

 structure of the nostrils, the form of the fins, &c., but is more especially dis- 

 tinguished by the development of the skull, which differs in a very marked 

 manner from that of Epinephelus. It is closely related to Mycteroperca (Ser- 

 ranus olfax Jenyns) but differs in the form of the dorsal and the very scaly 

 supramaxillaries. 



Type T. gu tat is Gill ex Bloch. 



To this genus belong the Serranus dimidiatus Poey, S. cnmeleopardalis Poey, 

 .S". cardinalis C. V., [T. guttatus Gill ex Bloch), whose crania I have examined, 

 and their allies, <S'. intcrstiiiali& Poey, S.falcatus Poey, S. arara Val., S. brunneus 

 Poey, S. latepiclus Poey, S. cyclopomatus Poey, S.felinus Poey, S. rivulatus Poey, 

 S. repandus Poey, S. petrosus Poey, /S. ligris C. V., S. undulosus C. V., and S. 

 acudrostris, C. V. 



It may be here remarked that all the genera of the subfamily Serranin^e, 

 established by me for "West Indian species, are well distinguished by their 

 crania, even Liopcrca, which would perhaps be thought to be the most doubt- 

 ful, being so indicated. The species with nine spines, for which I formerly 

 proposed to retain the name Bodianus, are represented by two genera ; one 

 (Enneacentrus, type Serranus outalibi C. V.) with the skull channelled between 

 the orbits and the surface uniform in texture, &c. ; the other [Fetrometopon, 

 type S. guttatus Poey) distinguished by the petrous-like convexity between 

 the supra orbital grooves, and its triangular sinus behind, into the angles on 

 each side of which the lateral crests terminate ; the crests are parallel, and 

 the surface between flat or scarcely convex. The name Bodianus cannot be 

 retained apparently for either genus, and as it was originally proposed more 

 especially for the Bodianus bodianus, {^Ilarpe tufas'), it must either be retained 

 for that type or consigned to that oblivion to which the utterly worthless 

 natur^of its original constitution so richly entitles it. 



Trisoteopis reticulatus. 



The height is contained four times and a half in the total length ; the head 

 three times, and the caudal more than six times. The eye is contained seven 

 times in the head's total length, and distant about two diameters from the 

 snout. The preoperculum behind is almost vertical, scarcely indented above 

 the angle ; finely serrated above the indentation and more coarsely between 

 it and the angle ; the inferior margin is entire. The spines of the dorsal are 

 moderately weak ; the longest contained twelve times in the length, and the 

 tenth about seventeen times ; the greatest height of the soft portion some- 

 what exceeds an eleventh. The pectoral equals a seventh of the length. 



D. XI. 17. A. III. 11. P. 17. 



The color appears to have been brownish, distributed in polygonal spots, 

 surrounded by reticulating bluish gray broad lines which are more distinct 

 on the head, on the hinder portion of which about four or five are on an area 

 about the size of the eye, while around the eye and on the snout they are 

 much smaller. The fins appear to have had no distinct delineations, and are 

 dark purplish brown. 



Two specimens of apparently the same species are deposited in the Smith- 

 sonian Museum ; both were obtained at Barbados ; one is about eighteen 



1865.] 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



inches long and almost twice as large as th5 other. Their colors have faded, 

 but in a proper light the evidence of the spots on the body is obtained, and 

 those on the head are quite distinct in the adult, but in the young the spots 

 of the body have not been found. 



The species appears to be readily distinguished from any hitherto described 

 by the system of coloration. 



By special permis-sion of the Academy, a paper was presented and 

 referred to a Committee. The latter havino; made a favorable report, 

 the paper was ordered to be published, as follows : 



Descriptioas of four new Species of BIRDS from the Isthmus of Panama, 



New Granada. 



BY GEO. N. LAWRENCE. 



1. Tachypho.vcs robrifbons. 



Tachyphonus xanthopygius, Lawr., nee Scl. Ann. Lye. N. Y. vol. vii. p. 

 331. 



MaJe. Front and part of crown dull red ; back part of crown, hind neck 

 and upper part of back of a slaty brownish black ; hind neck just tinged with 

 yellowish green : lower part of back and rump bright lemon yellow ; upper 

 tail coverts and tail brownish black, the former edged with dull greenish yel- 

 low ; wing coverts black, the middle and larger with lighter or slaty grey edg- 

 ings ; quills brownish black ; under plumage plumbeous grey, the feathers 

 of the throat with their centres lighter grey ; the abdomen with a slight 

 wash of greenish yellow ; the under tail coverts margined with greenish yel- 

 low ; axillars and under lining of wings white ; irides reddish brown ; bill 

 and feet black. 



Length (measured fresh) 6^ in. ; wing 3|; tail 2|; bill 1' ; tarsi f. 



Habitat. — Line of the Pan. R. Road, near Lion Hill Station. 



The female is rather smaller than the male, but the general plumage is 

 much the same ; it is without the red front and has more of the yellowish 

 tinge on the plumage. 



Allied to T. xanthopygius, Scl. The females appear to closely resemble each 

 other, but the males differ much in color and markings, xanthopygius being 

 black below as well as above, with a scarlet post-ocular stripe and bright yel- 

 low shoulders ; in my species the shoulders are black, it is without tfie red 

 stripe behind the eye, and the colors of the general plumage are much as in 

 the female. 



The red on the forehead of the male extends back for about half the extent 

 of the crown, where it is rounding in form ; in the single specimen of the 

 male the red spot is rather dull, but it may be brighter in other or older indi- 

 viduals, possibly as bright as the scarlet stripe in xanthopygius. 



The first specimen I received of this species was marked as a male, which 

 it probably is, but as it answered to the description of the female of T. xan- 

 thropygius, I put it in my Cat. of Pan. Birds, as that species, supposing it to 

 be young and still in the plumage of the female. I have since received the 

 male described above, and two females. 



2. Anthus (Notiocorys) parvus. 



Anthus rufus, Law., nee. Gm. Ann. Lye. N. Y. vol. vii. p. 322. 

 Male. Upper plumage dark brown, the feathers margined with pale ful- 

 vous, the lighter margins most conspicuous on the hind neck ; outer tail 

 feather white, with a portion of the margin of the inner web at the base 

 brown, the next feather white with the margin of the inner web brown almost 

 to the end, the other tail feathers brown ; wing coverts brown with pale ful- 

 vous margins ; quills brown with very faint paler edgings ; under plumage 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



whitish, tinged with rery dilute tawny yellow ; across the upper part of the 

 breast is a tawny colored band, spotted with brown ; upper mandible black- 

 ish brown, the lower yellowish with the tip dusky ; irides brown ; tarsi and 

 toes pale yellow. 



Length (fresh measure) 4| in. ; wing 2y'- ; tail If ; bill f ; tarsi f . 



Habitat. — The Savannah near Panama City. 



The female is smaller and has the margins of the feathers above more ru- 

 fous and distinct ; the hue of the under surface much more tawny, especially 

 the sides which are conspicuously spotted, as well as the breast ; the outer 

 tail feathers are of a light fawn color. 



Length (fresh) 4^ in. ; wing 2_3^ ; tail \\ ; bill _3^'; tarsi 1%. 



I determined this species to be A. rufus from specimens in the Phil. Acad.; 

 these being mounted, the comparison could not be made satisfactorily, except 

 as regards general appearance, in which they are much alike. The Panama 

 species, however, is smaller, the lengths of the two sexes taken from fresh 

 specimens, are respectively 4| and 4^ inches, the dried skins measuring half 

 an inch less. Since my first determination of it, I have received specimens of 

 A. riifus (as I suppose them to be) from Bahia, Brazil; these now measure 5J 

 in., and probably the length of recent specimens would be fully 6 inches. 



The under plumage of the Brazil species is more decidedly yellow ; and in 

 several specimens there are none resembling the female of the other species, 

 in its tawny under plumage. The Brazil bird has the outer tail feather white, 

 with the margin of the inner web broadly brown nearly to the end; the next 

 feather is brown, with a wedge shaped white stripe in the centre, terminating 

 half way from the end. 



Birds from the two localities are certainly different, though I may err in 

 calling those from Brazil, A. rufus. However, as it differs in its diminutive 

 size, together with some other characters from all described species, I have no 

 hesitation in deciding that it is new. 



Prof. Baird (Hev. Am. Birds, p. 157) considers its nearest ally to be Neo- 

 corys iSpraquei, which species I state that it resembles in habits, in my first 

 account of it. Prof. Baird proposes for it a new subgenus, viz. Notiocorys. 

 He also expresses a doubt of my identification of it as A. rufus being correct. 



3. Thamnophilus kigricristatu-s. 



Male. Crown deep black, on the front a few feathers are narrowly pencil- 

 led with white ; upper plumage black, regularly banded with lines of white ; 

 the feathers of the throat and the sides of the head have black centres, with 

 their outer edges white ; tail black, all the feathers marked on the margins 

 of both webs with roundish white spots, six on each side ; quills black, the 

 outer webs marked with white spots of a quadrate form ; wing coverts black, 

 all terminating in white ; the feathers of the under plumage marked with al- 

 ternate bars of greyish white and black ; upper mandible black, the lower 

 plumbeous, paler at the end ; irides yellow ; feet black. 



Length (fresh) 6 in. ; wing 2| ; tail 2| ; bill 1^ ; tarsi 1, 



Habitat. — Line of Pan. R. R., Lion Hill Station. 



Female. Crown dark cinnamon, the feathers of the hind neck and sides of 

 the head pale cinnamon, with black centres ; wing coverts and oiater margins 

 of quills and back bright cinnamon ; tail dark cinnamon ; inner webs and ends 

 of the quill feathers blackish brown ; throat grey with a slight cinnamoa 

 tinge, under plumage clear cinnamon, much paler than the back; the mid- 

 dle of the abdomen whitish; under lining of wings pale cinnamon; inner 

 margins of quills of a light salmon color ; bill and feet as in the male. 



This species differs from doliatus and affinisin having no white in the crest; 

 doliatus is darker below, the black bands being nearer together ; it also differs 

 from affinis in having the white markings above smaller and more distinct ; in 

 that species they are more linear in form ; the female of the new species is very 

 different from that of affinis, being much brighter and clearer in color ; it is 



1865.] 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



destitute ef all markina;s except on tlie hind neck and sides of the head, 

 whereas the female of ajfinis. besides its duller plumage, has the wing coverts 

 brownish black barred and tipped with rufous, and the smaller quills barred 

 and spotted with black ; there are also black spots on the upper part of the 

 breast, and faint indications of narrow bars on the upper and under plu- 

 mage. 



I have enlarged more in pointing out wherein this species differs from affinis 

 for the reason, that I sent it to Mr. Sclater for publication (with some other 

 birds) in the Ibis, more than two years since. He returned it marked "o^- 

 ?h's;" to this opinion I demurred on the ground of that species having the crest 

 largely white, which in this is entirely black. I so wrote him; he replied that 

 not having the specimens before him he could not then determine, but would 

 do so when examining Mr. Salvin's collection received from Panama. In 

 the List of that collection given, Proc. Zool. Soc. June, 1864, I notice T. affinis 

 is gi^en, and referring the bird I culled T. dolintus, (Ann. Lye. N. Y. vol. vii. 

 p. 293,) to the same species ; this specimen was in McLeannan's iirst collec- 

 tion ; when I received tlie collection made by Messrs. McLeaunan and Gal- 

 braith, I noticed that the species now described was not doliatus, but supposed 

 it was similar to the one so called in my Catalogue, without comparing them. 

 I thereby misled Mr. Sclater, as I have since found that the specimen in Mr. 

 McL.'s first collection is T. radiatus. But as Mr. Sclater only saw the speci- 

 mens now described, of course these are tlie ones alluded to as being '• affi- 

 7ns." 



I do not pretend to say that the specimens received by Mr. Salvin from the 

 Istbmus and put in tlie List as affinis, are the same as mine now described. 

 There is every probabil ty of affinis being found there, and I should not like 

 to give an opinion about their specimens without seeing them, therefore only 

 speak of my own. 



4. GrEOTRYGON ALBIVEXTER. 



Geotrygon violacea, Lawr., nee Temm. Ann. Lye. of N. Y., vol. vii. p. 



477. 

 Geotri/gon ? ScL et Salv. P. Z. S. 1864. 



Male. Front pale rosaceous, crown dull brownish violet ; region of the 

 ears to hind neck bluish cinerous ; upper part of back of a rich reddish violet; 

 back, wing coverts and tail dark cinnamon or rufous brown, tinged with vio- 

 let ; the primaries are of a lighter cinnamon color than the tail, with their 

 inner webs dusky near their ends, the other quills are darker, becoming brown- 

 ish next the back ; all the quills and larger wing coverts have their ends 

 margined with light cinnamon, inside of which is a dusky narrow subterminal 

 band ; the under wing coverts are white with their ends blackish brown ; the 

 axillars are blackish brown at the base, remaining half white ; throat, sides, 

 abdomen and under tail coverts pure white ; feathers of thighs brown ending 

 in white : the feathers on the middle of the breast are of a light brownish ash, 

 with their ends pale rufous, the lower part and sides of the breast are of a 

 light pinkish lilac, these seem like new feathers ; and the whole breast in a 

 more mature bird is probably of this color ; it becomes paler as it extends 

 downwards, and gradually merges into the pure white of the abdomen ; bill 

 and legs in the dried specimen brownish yellow. 



Length 9 in. ; wing 5| ; tail 3| ; bill f ; tarsi |. 



Hab. — Line of Pan. R. Road, near Lion Hill Station. 



My identification of this species as violacea, Temm., was made from his de- 

 scription and plate, Knip, Pig. t. 29, but I had misgivings as to its correct- 

 ness. I then was not aware of their being two specimens of that species in 

 the Mus. of the Phil. Acad., which came from the Rivoli Collection. I have 

 since compared my specimen with these and find it quite distinct. 



G. violacea has the crown, back and wings greenish bronzn ; the upper 

 part of the back violet blue, and the tail aud quills of a lighter red than in 

 my species. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 109 



/ 



Jith/ Wth. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice President, in the Chair. 



Thirteen members present. 



The resignation of Dr. B. H. Rand, as Recording Secretary, was read. 



The following papers were read and referred to a committee : 



" Remarks on the genus Taxocrinus, &c., with descriptions of new 

 species," and " Descriptions of new species of Crinoidea, &c." By 

 F. B. Meek and A. H. ^yorthen. 



The deaths of Joseph Hopkinson, M. D., Mr James Duadas, Mr. J. 

 Reese Fry, and Mr. Richard Price, late nnembers, were announced. 



Jult/ \%th. 



Mr. Cassin, Vice President, in the Chair. 



Eleven members present. 



The following paper was read and referred to a committeo : 



" On Amphibamus graudiceps, &c." By Prof. E. D. Cope. 



Juhj Ibth. 



Mr. Cassin, Vi'ce President, in the Chair. *■ 



Nine members present. 



On Report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published. 



Descriptions of New Species of FOSSILS, from the Marshall Group of Michi- 

 gan, and its supposed equivalent, in other States; with Notes on some 

 Fossils of the same age previously described. 



BY PROFESSOR ALEXANDER WINCHELL. 



The following paper is intended to constitute a further contribution to our 

 knowledge of certain western rocks occupying a position near the boundary 

 ^line between the carboniferous and Devonian systems.* The materials for 

 this paper have been in part collected by the writer in Michigan, Ohio, Indi- 

 ana, and Iowa. Further material has been found amongst the iivestiganda 

 of the " White Collection " of the University of Michigan. Col. Charles Whit- 

 tlesey's collection of fossils from the "Fine Grained Sandstone " of Ohio, has 

 also been placed in the writer's hands for study. In addition to this, the lat- 

 ter has spent several days with Prof. James Hall in his cabinet, engaged in 

 making direct comparisons between the fossils of the rocks under considera- 

 tion, and the types of the Chemung group, preserved in his magnificent col- 

 lection. An opportunity has also been enjoyed of making a hasty survey of 

 the fossils from the same horizon, contained in the extensive collection of the 

 Illinois Geological Survey, for which the writer's acknowledgments are due to 

 the Director, A. H. Worthen, Esq. 



The reader will observe that all the identifications heretofore made with 

 typical Chemung fossils from New York and Pennsylvania, have been aban- 



* Former papers by the writer, on the same subject, may be referred to as follows : " First Bien- 

 nial Report" of the Geological Survey of Mith. 1800 ; Amer. Jour. Sci. and Arte, [2\ Vol. xxxiji. p. 

 352 5 ib. [2] xxxv. p. 61 ; Pro.-. A^ad. Nat. Sci. Phil., Sept. 1862, p. 405 ; ib. Jan. 1«63, p 2. 



1865.] 8 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



doned. On critical comparison between actual specimens, it has appeared 

 that the diiferences — some of which have always been admitted — are of too 

 important a character to permit the identification formerly assumed. On the 

 other hand, the following paper discloses an extended network of identifica- 

 tions amongst the fossils from States west of Pennsylvania. But perhaps the 

 most interesting feature of all is the identification of four western species with 

 fossils, contained in the supposed carboniferoiis conglomerate of western New 

 York. These a.re Euomphali(S depre.'isux, Rail, {=^ Strap a roll us Amman, White), 

 Cypricardia contracta, Hail, {= Echnondia ? bicarinata, Winchell), Edmoridia 

 cequimarciinalis, Win., and Alori^^ma Hannibalensis, Shumard.* Considering 

 the small number of fossils as yet discovered in this conglomerate, in New 

 York — and these only at one locality (four miles north of Panama, Chautau- 

 que Countyj — so considerable a number of identifications is calculated to ex- 

 cite some surprise, and not a little hope, that we are getting glimpses of the 

 clue to a solution of geological difliculties of long standing. 



But further than this, two of the above ST^ecies — Ed mo ndia cEquimarginalis 

 and Allorisma Hannibalensis — occur in wliat has been regarded as another con- 

 glomerate, whose position is beneath the first and at the top of the Chemung 

 rocks of Western New York. 



In the light of these identifications, and in the absence of all identifications 

 between western species and those of the Chemung, as well as between the 

 species of this conglomerate and those of the Chemung, it might not seem un- 

 reasonable to doubi its affinities with recognized Chemung rocks, and to sus- 

 pect its continuity with the supposed ''carboniferous conglomerate," until 

 observation shall have demonstrated that its stratigraphical position is really 

 belov? that formation. And further, since we must probably abandon the at- 

 tempt to coordinate the Chemung of New York with the fossiliferous portions 

 of the sandstones and shales of the west lying between the "'Black Slate " 

 and the coal conglomerate, it stems not unlikely that we may yet be able to 

 prove the conglomerates of Western New Vork to be the attenuated and lit- 

 toral eastern prolongation of those western sandstones and shales — at least 

 of the superior and fossiliferous portions of them ; so that the latter would 

 stand as a hitherto unrecognized group of strata lying at the very base of the 

 carboniferous system ; while tJie Chemung rocks of New York fall within the 

 Devonian system, toward which the writer is now inclined to think that their 

 paleontological aflinities attract them. 



It yet remains to determine by observations in the field, whether the so- 

 called " carboniferous conglomerate" of Western New York is really the equi- 

 valent of tlie coal conglomerate of Ohio ; and whether any actual junction of 

 superposition can be discovered in Western Pennsylvania or Eastern Ohio, be- 

 tween the Cheiiiung rocks in their westward prolongation and the finegrained 

 sandstones and gritstones of the Western States. 



The total number of species at present described from the rocks under con- 

 sideration is about 379, of which 170 were first described by the writer, and 

 four have been recognized as belonging to uudescribed genera. The uiimber 

 of ^pecies neticed in the present paper is 94, of which .3d are described as new 

 species, and two are made the types of new genera. 



Descriptions find Notes of Species. 

 COXOPOTERIDM n. gen. 

 Etymology, KJ^vo?, a cone, and TnT-^g^tov, a little cup. 



Generic Characters. Corallum compound, generally free, sometimes adhe- 

 rent, but without a distinct base of attachment. Cells somewhat crowded, 



* The writer is under special obligations to Prof. Hall for the unreserved liberality with 

 which he has been allowed to examine the specimens in his cabinet, as well as for many kind- 

 Deeses incident to the generous hospitality of his house. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



rapidly enlarging, inseparable, with only occasional and rudimentary' dia- 

 phragms, and no radial lamellse. Walls marked internally by vertical striae, 

 and a few pores which communicate between the cells. Exterior, where ex- 

 posed, covered by an epitheca, marked only by irregular encircling striae. 

 Cells increasing laterally and interstitially. 



This genus, perhaps, approaches nearest to Sphenopoterium, Meek and Wor- 

 then. It differs in the absence of the cuneate form of the base even in Sphen- 

 opoterium — the cell mouths in this genus being turned indifferently in all 

 directions. The cells also are smaller and more numerous ; and the fewer 

 mural pores communicate from cell to cell, instead of terminating in the in- 

 tercellular substance. But one species has thus far been observed. 



CoNOPOTERiuji EFFCSUM u. sp. Corallum small, spheroidal, consisting of 20 

 to 50 cells, which are crowded, subcircular or irregularly angulated in trans- 

 verse section, feebly striated internally, and having a thick, feebly wrinkled 

 epitheca. Specimens presenting cells of all sizes. Some tendency is manifest 

 toward a proliferous growth ; some of the lateral cells becoming adherent by 

 their sides to a foreign body. 



Diameter of largest mass, '58 ; diameter of mouth of largest cells, about 

 •20. 



From the Lithographic Limestone, Clarksville, Mo., " White Collection " 

 of the University of Michigan. 



ZAPHRENTIS, Rafinesque et Clifford. 



Zaphkentis Ida n. sp. Coral simple, of medium dimensions, in the general 

 form of an inverted cone, strongly curved, with numerous encircling wrinkles 

 of growth, and an occasional deep constriction. Epitheca rather thick, 

 though the vertical lamellae show faintly on the exterior. Cup very oblique, 

 turned toward the shorter side, with a distinct fossette reaching from the 

 centre to the shorter side. Radial lamellse 31 in a specimen -62 inch in dia- 

 meter. On the side opposite the fossette is a thick lamella reaching from the 

 periphery to the centre ; one-sixth of the circumference on each side of this 

 is another lamella reaching to the centre, and at the same interval from these 

 are two others ; in the fossette, near the periphery, is the rudiment of a sixth. 

 The remaining lamellse do not extend to the centre but become confluent in 

 each sextant, with the principal lamella which lies between them and the fos- 

 sette — the fossette taking the place of a principal lamella. There are thus, in 

 each sextant, four subordinate lamellse joining their primaries, except that in 

 one of the sextants adjacent to the fossette there appears a supernumery lam- 

 ella, caused apparently by the splitting of the shortest subordinate or the one 

 next the fossette. Taking no account of this anomaly, the whole number of 

 lamellse is 30, a multiple of six instead of four. 



The spaces between the lamellse are intersected by thin transverse dia- 

 phragms arranged at unequal distances, and either flat or concave upwards. 

 There is no correspondence in the positions of the diaphragms in contiguous 

 interlamellar spaces ; and the wrinkles of the epitheca sustain no relation to 

 them, since they are not continuous, but are intercepted by vertical interlam- 

 illar walls ; and besides, they nearly disappear in the peripheral region of the 

 internal cavity. 



Collected by A. Winchell, in the Goniatite Limestone at Rockford, Indiana. 



The septal system of this coral is described above as senary instead of 

 quaternary. The senary arrangement, as a fact, is sufficiently apparent ; and 

 yet it must probably be regarded as illusory — the primary lamellae being four 

 instead of six, and the illusion being produced by the mode of confluence of 

 the lamellae of the second and third cycles. 



Zaplirentis acutus 9 White and Whitfield. 



Occurs in the Lithographic Limestone of Clarksville, Missouri. "White 

 Collection" of the University of Michigan 



1865.] 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



FAVOSITES, Lamark. ' 



Favosites ? MANCUS 11. sp. Coral a small hemispherical mass, with an ob- 

 tuse-apex; principal cell- mouths very small, sub-circular; those occupying 

 the interstices smaller and angular ; cell-walls strong, prominently raised 

 above the general surface. Cells rapidly enlarging and multiplying by fre- 

 quent gemmation. No pores, striae or diaphragms have been discerned. 



Diameter of polypary, '68 inch ; largest cell-mouths, '05 inch in diameter. 



This differs from F. diver gens, White and Wiiitfield — the only other species 

 described from rocks of this age — in its extremely diminutive proportions, and 

 in the apparent absence of diaphragms. There is perhaps as much reason for 

 referring this species to Conopoteriam as to Favosites. 



Collected by A. Wiuchell, in the Goniatite limestone of Rockford, Indiana. 



Trematopora ? VESIC0LOSA, Win. Specimens undisttaguishable from the 

 Iowa species, in their existing state of preservation, have been collected py A. 

 Winchell, at Alan's quarry, in Hillsdale, Michigan. 



LiNGDLA Cuyahoga, Hall. Numerous specimens, not distinguishable from 

 this species, were obtained by the writer from fragments of a hard, calcareous, 

 brecciated rock, quarried from a well on the premises of Judge Alan, at Hills- 

 dale, Michigan. The geological position is apparently in the lower part of the 

 Marshall group. The rock here is the nearest approach in physical charac- 

 ters that has yet been seen to the Goniatite limestone at Rockford, Indiana. 



Occurs also in the "Fine-grained sandstone beneath the coal at Ward's 

 mine, Wethersfield, Trumbull County, Ohio — conglomerate wanting." Whit- 

 tlesey's collection. 



DISCINA, Davidson. 



DisciNA Gallaheri, n. sp. 



Shell of medium size, nearly circular. Ventral valve with the apex slightly 

 excentric ; foramen lanceolate, reaching from near the apex four-fifths the 

 distance to the margin, and acute at both extremities. Surface marked by 

 about fifteen rigid, sharp, sub-equidistant striae, which are somewhat more 

 approximated toward the apex. The striae are less distinct on the shell than 

 upon the cast. 



Dorso- ventral diameter about I'O ; transverse diameter about I'O ; distance 

 from apex to dorsal side, •4S ; length of foramen, 'SS. 



Found at Hillsdale, Michigan, on the premises of Rev. F. A. Gallaher, in a 

 small loose fragment having the lithological characters of the lower gray 

 portions of the neighboring Marshall sandstone. It occurs also in Col. Whit- 

 tlesey's collection from Girard and Wethersfield, in Trumbull County, Ohio. 



I at first referred the specimens to D. Newherryi, Hall, (xvi. Rep. N. Y. 

 Regents, p. 30,) but direct comparison with the types of that species shows 

 that it differs in having more remote, stronger and more regularly equidistant 

 concentric striae. In its striation it resembles D. grandis, Hall, from the Ham- 

 ilton group, but the form is more circular and the striae are relatively less 

 remote. 



DisciNA capax, White, (1864.) Identified in Whittlesey's collection, "from 

 rocks next below tbe coal canal level, one mile below Girard," and also at 

 "Girard, Trumbull County," Ohio. 



The types of D. Newherryi, Hall, (1864,) do not seem to be distinguisliable 

 from this species. 



PRODUCTA, Sowerby. 



Pkoddcta gracilis, n. sp. Shell small, aperture of the ventral valve form- 

 ing a little more than a semicircle. Ventral valve moderately inflated for a 

 Producta, with flattened, smooth, triangular auriculations ; hinge-line equal 



[July, 




natural" SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 113 



to greatest width of shell ; mesial sinus wanting or barely perceptible ; exter- 

 nal surface marked by fine, rigid, sharp, ouee dichotomizing radial lines or 

 ribs, numbering about 40. No indications of spines have been detected. 



Length of hinge line, "29 (100) ; length from beak to anterior margin, 

 •21 (72). .. 



Described from an imperfect ventral valve ; but its peculiar characters 

 easily distinguish it. 



Mviseura of University of Michigan, Collected by A. Winchell at Valley 

 Forge, one and a half miles below Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio. 



Producta duplicostata, n. sp. Shell rather large with subcircular outline. 

 Ventral valve very ventricose and greatly arched, with steep slopes to the 

 right and left margins, not enlarged at the aperture, and entirely destitute of 

 mesial sinus ; marked with numerous interruptedly and irregulaily striate 

 sinuous ribs, which dichotomize once or twice in the middle region of the 

 valve, and towards the front resolve themselves each into a fascicule of three 

 or four sm^ler ribs, themselves raised into a wider rib-like elevation around 

 the anterior margin. The tubular spines are scattered over the whole exte- 

 rior, but become much more abundant at the commencement of the marginal 

 costate ridges. The whole exterior of the cast is marked also by oblique 

 punctations, which are placed mostly in irregular lines between the ribs, and 

 become consequently most abundant toward the margin. On the sides of the 

 cast the punctations become elongated into short furrows which tross the 

 surface obliquely. 



Length, 1*19 ; breadth, 1-24; convexity of ventral valve, "58; number of 

 marginal ridges, 15 to 20. 



Collected by A. Winchell, at Battle Creek, Michigan. Occurs also in Lick- 

 ing County, Ohj^. 



Pkoducta morbilliajia, n. sp. Shell smal', transversely subelliptic, only 

 moderately produced. Hinge line seven-eighths the greatest width of the 

 shell ; ears small, nearly riglit angled. The shell regularly contracts from 

 the aperture to the beak, which is small, subacute, and projects slightly be- 

 yond the hinge. The arching of the shell is such that wheu resting on the 

 aperture the greatest height is equal to one-half the greatest width. No 

 sinus or flattening present. The surface is marked by a series of deep, con- 

 tinuous, equidistant wrinkles, ten or eleven in number, becoming obscure 

 toward the beak ; between the wrinkles are numerous fine concentric striae 

 not easily seen without a magnifier. These features are crossed by a longitu- 

 dinal system which, near the beak, is a set of fine regular costse, which near 

 the middle become interrupted by the wrinkles, and, lo.sing their identity, 

 result in several concentric bands of short longitudinal tubes buried in the 

 substance of the shell, and gradually emerging and presenting their apertures 

 anteriorly. 



Transverse diameter of aperture, "58 (100) ; length of hinge line, -51 (88) ; 

 distance from hinge line. across the aperture to opposite side, '44 (76) ; height 

 of shell when resting on the aperture, '26 (4.5). 



From the base of the Burlington limestone, Burlington, Iowa. "White 

 Collection " of the University of Michigan. 



A cast from the yellow sandstone below (probably "No. 5,") is probably 

 identical with this. 



This beautiful species is most nearly related to P. speciosa, Hall, (xth Rep. 

 N. Y. Reg. p, 17(i.) The resemblance, however, is not striking, except in 

 the cast referred to. This*difFers in having the pustules more regularly ar- 

 ranged in concentric bauds. P. morhilliana may also be compared with P. 

 liofjern, Nor. and I'rat., (Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. [2] iii. 9, pi. i. .3, a, b, 

 c, not P. aspera McChesney.) It is, however, a much neater species, without 

 trace of sinus, not so full near the beak, while the rib-like tubes arranged 



1865.] 




.114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



along the concentric bands are smaller and more regular. Its nearest foreign 

 analogue is P. punctata, Sowerby, (Min. Conch, iv. 22, pi. 323.) Its surface 

 featitres, in point of regularity, are intermediate between the extremes pre- 

 sented by that variable species ; but it diifers constantly in the absence of a 

 sinus. 



PKonrcTA ccRTiROSTEA, u. sp. Shell of moderate size, semi-globoid, with- 

 out mesial sinus. Hinge line nearly equal to greatest width of valve, with 

 but slight flattening in the region of the extremities. Beak scarcely surpass- 

 ing the hinge line, extremely flattened ; general surface regularly convex, 

 marked by numerous interrupted, sub-obsolete costse, and, in the umbonal 

 region, by numerous concentric wrinkles, most distinct upon the ears. The 

 inside of the dorsal valve presents an appearance very similar to the outside 

 of the ventral valve. 



This is the species formerly referred by me (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 

 Jan. 1863, p. 4,) to P. speciosa, Hall. A careful comparison of specimens, how- 

 ever, fail to justify this identification. It most nearly approaches P. lacry- 

 mosa, Hall. The remarkable features of the beak of the ventral valve, and 

 the 'great concavity of the dorsal, are, however, characters which distinguish 

 this species from all others. P. lacnjmosa has less fulness in the region of 

 the cardinal extremities, giving the umbo less breadth and greater isolation 

 from the ears. 



From the yellow sandstone, Burlington, Iowa. " White Collection" of the 

 University of Michigan. 



Pkoducta dolorosa, n. sp. Shell of medium size, somewhat hemispherical, 

 outline subcircular or somewhat transverse, truncated along the hinge line, 

 which is considerably shorter than the greatest width of the shell. Ventral 

 valve regularly convex, with scarcely an apparent flattening at the hinge ex- 

 tremities ; beak depressed, obtuse, slightly surpassing the cardinal line. 

 Dorsal valve but slightly concave, with a low and inconspicuous median sep- 

 tum reaching to the middle of the valve ; the muscular scars presenting 

 together a somewhat semicircular contour, in front of which the interior of 

 the shell presents a fineh^ papillose area. External surface presenting a 

 series of elongated pustules, or interrupted, irregular depressed costfe, and a 

 few coarse concentric wrinkles, between which the surface is covered with 

 fine concentric strise. 



Length from hinge, in a straight line to front margin, '54 (66) ; transverse 

 diameter, -82 (100) ; length of hinge line, -56 (68) ; depth of ventral valve, 

 •24 (29). 



This species, on casual observation, would be referred to P. lacri/mosa, 

 Ha'l, (X. Report New York Regents, p. 177.) The beak, however, is less 

 acute and projecting, the ears less flattened, the dorsal valve less concave, 

 and the ventral less jiroduced. If possessed of cardinal spines it might be 

 taken for Chonetes trttncata, Hall. Figures D and Dd, Whittlesey, (Proc. 

 Amer. Assoc. Cincinnati, p. 220,) may be intended for this species. 



"Weymouth, Medina County, Ohio, 60 feet below the conglomerate." 

 Whittlesey's Collection. 



Peoducta coscentrica. Hall. In quoting this species from Michigan, 

 (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., Sept. 1862, p. 411,) it was stated that only the 

 interior of dorsal valves had been seen in the southern part of the State. 

 Since then I have obtained good ventral valves from Battle Creek, which agree 

 in every respect with specimens from Burlington, Iowa. 



A dorsal valve of this species was found at Rockford, Indiana, in the bluish 

 argillaceous brecciated limestone of the famous "Goniatite bed." This spe- 

 cies is now known to occur in Northern and Southern Michigan, at Burlington 

 and Rockford, and probably in Missouri and Illinois. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 115 



The Yonng of P. conrentrica, Slntmardiann, py.ridata, Coopfre.usisau6.arcu- 

 ata, present resemblances so strong that it is scarcely possible to distiujruish 

 them from each other. !n the adult state, however, the lasf may be distin- 

 guished by its much stronger and regular costje, its less rapid expansion and 

 greater arcuation. P. Cooperensis has the form of P. arcuata, without its 

 strongly marked ribs. The other three species are not satisfactorily distin- 

 guishable, even in the adult state. P. pyxidata was described by Hall from 

 the so-called Hamilton shale and limestone of Hamburgh, DL, and Louisiana, 

 Mo.; P. ShumarJiana was described by Hall from the so-called Hamilton of 

 Clarksville, Mo., and the so-called Chemung of Burlington ; P. conceiitrka 

 only from the latter locality. It is probable that the rocks at all of these 

 localities are of nearly the same age. This being the case, the probabi'ity be- 

 comes strengthened that the three species first named are one and the same. 

 If so, P. concentrica, having been first published, will displace the other two 

 names. 



Producta semireticplata, Fleming:, (P. Martini, (De Kow) Win. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. Jan. 1863, p. 4; figs. B. and Bb, Whittlesey, Proc. Amer. 

 Assoc. Cincinnati, p. 219.) This species occurs plentifully at Battle Creek, 

 Michigan. Collected by A. Winchell. Also in Hillsdale County. Collected 

 by Rev. J. D. Parker. 



A large specimen from the sands'ones at Burlington, Iowa, I'esembles, in 

 its want of mesial sinus, the forms of P. semire'icn'ata occurring in the 

 Burlington limestone, rather than its associates in the same strata. It pos- 

 sesses in addition, a peculiar sharpness of the ribs not seen in othi r speci 

 mens. 



Occurs also in Whittlesey's Collection from "Weymouth, Medina county, 

 Ohio, 60 feet below the conglomerate;" and " Slieldo 's sawmill, Orange. 

 Cuvaho2:a county, below the grindstone grit." 



P. Nfiioherriii, Hall, (x. Rep. N". Y. Regents, p. ISO,) from Ohio, is perhaps 

 too closely related to this species. Dorsal valves cannot be distinguished 

 from dorsal valves of P. semireticulata, as they occur at Battle Creek, Mich. 

 The ventral valve of P. Neioberri/i does not become so much arcuate, the con 

 centric wrinkling is a little more wavy, and less regular, the beak is less at- 

 tenuate, and projects less beyond the hinge, and the mesial depression is 

 smaller. 



Producta Cooperensis, Swallow, (Trans. St. Louis Acad. Nat. Sci. i. 640.) 

 The hinge line is shorter than in the typical specimens, bat otherwise the 

 agreement is good. 



Bed " No. i," Burlington, Iowa. " White Collection " of the University 

 of Michigan. 



Chonetes pulchella, Win., (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Sept., 1862, p. 

 410). Collected by A. Winchell at Germain's and Alan's Quarries, Hillsdale, 

 Michigan. One specimen from this locality is larger than usual, presenting 

 a greater elongation of hinge line, which is drawn out at the extremities to 

 au abrupt acumination. The number of ribs is about 60. Two cardinal spines 

 are seen on each side of the beak, making an angle of about 60^ with the 

 hinge line. 



Occurs also in Ohio, at " Howland, Trumbull County, one half mile east 

 from Center, at "Warren, Trumbull County, in coarse bedded sandstone, 

 next below the conglomerate," and at "Tallmadge, Summit County, in aboul- 

 der, supposed to be from the shales next below the conglomerate," Whittle- 

 sey's Collection. 



C. piilcliflla, in the number of its ribs, is intermediate between C. Loguin. 

 Nor. and Prat, and C. Ulinoisensis, Worthen. In this character it most re- 

 sembles the former, while it differs from it in the smoothness of the ribs. It 



1865.] 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



resembles C. setigf-ra, Hall, and C. nana, but differs from the former in 

 having oblique instead of erect spines, and from the latter in the smaller area 

 of the ventral valve. C. setigera occurs in the Hamilton and Chemung of 

 New York, and I have identified it in the blue argillaceous shales of the Huron 

 group of Michigan. C nana is found in the corniferous limestone ; and Euro- 

 pean geologists regard it as a Devonian species. 



Choxetes Illinoisexsis, Worthen, (Trans. St. Louis Acad. Nat. Sci. i. 571) ; 

 C. Logani, Hall, (Iowa Eep. p. 59b, pi. xii. fig. la — e and 2) ; not C. Logani, 

 Norwood aud Pratten, (Jour. Acad. Nat. SciT Phil. [2] iii. 30, pi. ii. fig 12, 

 a, b, c] ; C. Iliinoisensis, Winchell, (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., Jan., 1863, 

 p. 5). This wide spread species occurs at the Grindstone quarries at Pt. aux 

 Barques, Mich. The specimens are smaller than the typical ones from Bur- 

 lington, Iowa, and perhaps for this reason do not number as many striae 

 around the margin ; but specimens from Burlington of the same age cannot 

 be distinguished. 



Collected also by A. Winchell at Rockford, Indiana. It also occurs in the 

 base of the Burlington limestone at Burlington, Iowa, (" White Collection") 

 and in the fine grained sandstones ot Licking County, Ohio. 



This species may be confounded with C. Shuniardiana, De Koninck ; but 

 the latter has 270 to 280 or more radiating striae, which are less distinctly 

 isolated from each other. The former has from 100 to 125 stria. 



ChoneUs geniculuta, White, (Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist. ix. 29). A single 

 ventral valve, collected by A. Winchell at Rockford, Indiana, cannot be dis- 

 tinguished from this species. 



CHo^'ETEs LoGAxi, Norwood and Pratten. In a former paper I pointed out 

 the error of Hall's identification of C. Logani, N. & P., though this species 

 had not at that time fallen under my observation, and, I believe, has been 

 seldom seen since first described. I have now, however, in some later addi- 

 tions to the " White Collection " of the University, a number of examples of 

 C. Logani, N. & P., fully answering to the original description and figure. 

 These specimens are from the base of the Burlington limestone, and the ma- 

 trix holds C. Iliinoisensis in the same association, as previously believed. 



C. Lngani, N. & P., as far as I have observed, is restricted to the horizon 

 of the Marshall or Burlington sandstone — including the base of the Burlington 

 limestone, which belongs evidently to the same epoch. Prof. Hall, however, 

 has a small Chonefes from the Tully limestone, which, he informs me, he has 

 decided' to refer to C. Logani, (see 11th volume Palaeontology of N. Y.), a 

 reference to which, with full acknowledgement of his superior authority, I 

 cannot, at present, give my assent. The Tully limestone species presents a 

 series of concentric rugosities or wrinkles, which extend both across the ribs 

 and the intervals between the ribs ; while in C. Logani the rugosities are 

 feebler, and are confined to the crests of the ribs. 



C. Logani is also recognized in Ohio, with about 40 to 50 ribs.- It hence 

 appears that the species, like C. Iliinoisensis, Worthen, and C. multicosta, 

 Winchell, ranges from the Burlington limestone into the sandstone below. 



I may perhaps be permitted to add that some typical specimens of C. Logani 

 in Prof. Hall's cabinet, sent to him by Dr. Norwood, are imbedded in a matrix 

 of oolitic limestone, such as occurs at the base of the Burlington limestone. 



Orthis Michelini, L'Eveilli^, occurs in Whittlesey's collection from " Wa- 

 verly sandstone, near Newark, Licking County, Ohio." Another Orthis from 

 Akron, Ohio, resembles the Builington species commonly referred to 0. Va- 

 nuxemi (?), but difi'ers in the parallel direction of the dental lamellae, and in 

 the very indistinct character of the radial striation. 



Still another Orthis, received from Dr. Shumard and collected at Sulphur 

 Springs, St. Louis County, Missouri, is perhaps the species referred by the 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Missouri geologists to 0. MicheJini (?). It is a small circular species, with 

 extremely fine ribs or strise, apparently too obscure for either 0. Michelini or 

 0. Vamixemi. 



Orthis flat a, n. sp. Shell small, transversely oval, slightly truncate on 

 the cardinal side. Ventral valve convex, perceptibly flattened toward the 

 anterior margin, though without a marked sinus ; most elevated near the 

 slightly projecting beak ; area rather high and broad, triangular, with an 

 equilaterally triangular foramen ; dental lamellas slender, short, diverging at 

 an angle of about 80° ; occlusor scars small, together enclosing a longitudinally 

 oval space, which reaches one-third the distance from the beak to the anterior 

 margin ; a median internal ridge reaches from the beak to beyond the middle 

 of the valve. The shell was evidently thin ; its surface marked by one hun- 

 dred or more delicate radiating ribs, which increase by implantation. 



Transverse diameter of shell '50 (100); longitudinal diameter "39 (78);' 

 depth of ventral valve .12 (24). 



Burlington, Iowa, apparently from Bed " No. 1." at the base of the yellow 

 sandstones. " White Collection," of the University of Michigan. 



This species is less circular than the forms referred to 0. Michelini, and has 

 a more convex ventral valve and larger area. It difi'ers from 0. ijnpressa, 

 Hall, (Geol. Rep. 11th Dist. N. Y., p. 267, fig. 2), in its more transverse 

 shape, smaller size, more convex ventral valve, and feebler sinus. 



Stkeptoehtnchus lens? White, (Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist. ix. 28), "Wey- 

 mouth, Medina County, Ohio, 80 feet below the conglomerate." Whittlesey's 

 Collection. 



Streptokhtnchus umbracdlum ? Schloth. sp. From "coarse bedded sand- 

 stone, next below conglomerate, Warren, Trumbull County, Ohio." Whittle- 

 sey's Collection. 



A large, undetermined species from oolitic limestone, "No. 6," Burlington, 

 Iowa, probably belongs here. Collected by A. Winchell. 



Streptoehynchus ixequalis, White sp. From Weymouth, Medina County, 

 Ohio, 80 feet below conglomerate." Whittlesey's Collection. 



Steeptorhyxchus — sp. ? A single interior of a ventral valve from 



"near Ashland, Ashland County, Ohio," resembles S. Cliemungensis, var. 

 pectinacei, Hall. (Pal. N. Y., Vol. iv,) It diifers, however, in the possession 

 of a longer hinge line, and distinct auriculations, and lacks the alternation in 

 the size of the radial ridges. 



Pentamekus lexticularis. White and Whitfield. This species, described 

 from the yellow sandstone of Burlington, occurs also in the base of the Bur- 

 lington limestone. " White Collection " of the University of Michigan. 



SPIRIGERA, D'Orbigny. 



Spirigera Missoueiensis, n. sp. Shell of moderate size, broadly ovate, mo- 

 derately ventricose, with lamellose exterior. Ventral valve with an extended 

 beak, turned up at right angles with the plane of the shell, and having a cir- 

 cular perforation at its extremity. Between the beak and the dorsal valve is 

 an external flattening simulating an area, but traversed by the incremental 

 lines. Sinus a shallow but distinct groove, beginning at the beak, widening 

 and deepening anterior to the middle, and near the middle becoming well 

 characterized. Dorsal valve nearly circular, with straight hinge slopes, and 

 obtuse beak closely incurved and concealed, though not in contact with the 

 ventral beak. Mesial fold less distinct than the sinus of the ventral valve, 

 arising near the middle of the valve. BoJ,h valves are marked by numerous 

 strongly imbricating lamellae of growth. Greatest thickness through the 

 middle of the ventral valve. 

 1865.] 




118 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Length -69 (100) ; width -65 (94) ; thickness of both valves -41 (59). 



From the Lithographic limestone of Louisiana, Missoitri. White Collection 

 of the University of Michigan. Also from the sandstone at Weymouth, Me- 

 dina County, Ohio, 60 feet below the conglomeratp. Whittlesey's Collection. 



Close observation is necessary to distinguish this species from S. auhtilita, 

 Hall. That species, however, is less lamellose. the ventral sinus does not 

 extend above the middle of the shell, and the flattening beneath the beaks of 

 the ventral valve is wanting. 



Spieigeka biloba, n. sp. Shell broadly ovate in outline. Ventral valve 

 rather ventricose, with a prominent beak which is gradually recurved, and 

 appai'entlv minutely perforate at apex. A. deep, narrow, median furrow 

 begins at the apex and extends to the anterior mararin ; from the bottom of 

 this the surface rises with a convex curvature to the summits of the two 

 rounded ridges which constitute the most prominent portion of the valve ; 

 from these summits the curvatures continue to the right and left margins, 

 which are thus rendered quite obtuse. The external surface is marked only 

 by a few faint incremental lines. Shell structure fibrous. Characters of 

 dorsal valve unknown. 



Length -16 : breadth -16. 



Collected by A. Wlnchell in the Goniatite limestone at Rookford, Indiana. 



This shell has somewhat the aspect of a CentroneUa or TerebratuJa, but its 

 structure is not punctate. The unique character of the mesial furrow distin- 

 guishes it from any known species of Spirigera. 



Spieigeka Ohiensis, n sp., (Figs. A and Aa, Whittlesey, Proceedings Amer. 

 Assoc. Cincinnati, p. 220). Shell large, subcircular in outline, moderately 

 ventricose. Ventral valve regularly arched from beak to anterior margin, 

 having the cardinal slopes somewhat straight, and the lateral margins con- 

 siderably compressed. Sinus shallow and broad, extending half way to the 

 beak. Surface marked by numerous delicate, subequidistant, rigid, concen- 

 tric strije. 



Length 1-18 ; breadth 1*40. 



Akron, Ohio, 50 feet below the conglomerate. Whittlesey's Collection. 



This species differs from S. Hannihalensis, Swallow, in its less ventricosity, 

 especially around the margin, and in the absence of concentric lamellse ; it 

 differs from S. Missouriensis, Win., in its transverse form, more compressed 

 lateral margins, and its numerous and regular concentric striae. In the last 

 character it resembles S. concentrica, but the mesial sinus (and probably fold) 

 is much less marked. 



Spieigeka Haxxibalexsis, Swallow, occurs in the Lithographic limestone at 

 Clarksville, Missouri. White Collection of University of Michigan. 



SPIRIFERA, Sowerby. 



Spikifeka cexteoxata, n. sp. Shell of medium size, with an elongate, cus- 

 pidate hinge margin, and, aside from the cardinal extremities, a somewhat 

 semicircular general outline. Ventral valve of medium fulness near the 

 umbo, somewhat depressed between there and the margins ; beak elevated 

 above the cardinal line more than one-fifth the whole length of the valve, in- 

 curved and overhanging a very narrow area. A distinct and comparatively 

 deep sinus begins at the extremity of the beak, very gradually widening and 

 becoming ill-defined in the middle of the valve and beyond. External surface 

 marked by 36 to 40 ribs, of which from three to five fall in the mesial sinus. 

 The ribs disappear on the alate cardinal expansions. One or two concentric 

 furrows marking the middle region of the valve. 



Length along cardinal line, 1-23 (100); length from beak to anterior mar- 

 gin, '52 (42); greatest convexity of ventral valve, '11 (9). 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 119 



Museum of the Uuiversity of Michigau. Collected by A. Winchell, at Cuya- 

 hoga Falls, Ohio, in the flagstones below the conglomerate. Occurs also in 

 Col. Whittlesey's collection from Akron, Ohio, 50 feet below the conglome- 

 rate. 



This species is distinguished from all other spirifers by the association of 

 cuspidate hinge extremities with a ribbed mesial sinus, and semicircular front 

 margin. When the cuspidations are removed, the shell recalls *S'. Marionen- 

 sis, Shumard, from the so-called Chemimg of Missouri and Iowa ; and, in all 

 except the semicircular outline it corresponds with S. ciispidatus, Hall, (not of 

 Martin,) from the Chemung of New York. 



Spikifera Sillajta, n. sp. Shell transverse, broadest at about the middle ; 

 anterior margin somewhat straight ; ends rounded anteriorly, siib-truncate 

 from the extremity of the greatest diameter to the cardinal side. Dorsal valve 

 of medium convexity, arched regularly from beak to anterior margin ; beak 

 but slightly elevated above the hinge, incurved ; area narrow. A well de- 

 fined mesial fold extends from the beak to the front margin, rising abruptly 

 from the general surface, and arching regularly over. ■ The fold is marked 

 only by incremental lines, save a faint indication of two radial ribs in the 

 vicinity of the umbo ; the other portions of the external surface are marked 

 by one or two imbricating lamellce of growth, and regularly formed ribs which 

 radiate without increase in number, from the beak ; eighteen or twenty of 

 these can be distinguished on each side of the mesial fold. 



Greatest transverse length, 2-1 ; length from beak to anterior margin, 1-05; 

 greatest convexity of dorsal valve, '20 ; width of mesial fold at anterior mar- 

 gin, '45. 



This species is readily distinguished by having an elongate form, without 

 having its greatest length along the hinge line. 



Collected by A. Winchell, at Valley Forge, one and a half miles below Cuya- 

 hoga Falls, Ohio, in fine ferruginous sandstone underlying the conglomerate. 

 Museum of the University of Michigan. 



Named in honor of Judge E. N. Sill, of Cuyahoga Falls, in acknowledgment 

 of facilities afi"orded the writer in the examination of the rocks of his vicinity. 



Spieifera extexuata. Hall. This Burlington species occurs at Battle 

 Creek, Calhoun county, and Germain's quarry, Hillsdale county, Michigan. 

 Collected by A. Winchell. 



Spieifera hieta ? White and Whitfield. A ventral valve of a spirifer dif- 

 fering from the above only in the absence of all trace of a mesial sinus, and 

 in its somewhat fainter radial lines. 



Bed "No. 6," Burlington, Iowa, while the typical specimens seem to come 

 from Bed "No. 1." "White Collection" of the University of Michigan. 



Spieifera Vernonensis, Swallow, 1860. (Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sci. i. 

 644.) A specimen labelled as above by Dr. B. F. Shumard, from Sulphur 

 Springs, St. Louis county, Missouri, too strongly resembles S. Carteri, Hall, 

 1858, (xth Rep. N. Y. Regents, p. 170,) judging by a specimen of the latter 

 from Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, which Prof. Hall admitted to be S. Carteri. Coll. 

 A. W. 



STEi>-GOTnYEis Halli, Win. This peculiar form occurs at Battle Creek, 

 Michigan. Collected by A. Winchell. 



SPIRIFERINA, d'Orbigny. 



Spirifekina Clabksvillensis, n. sp. Shell small, transverse, semielliptic, 

 with coarse plications. Ventral valve rather ventricose, most elevated to- 

 ward the beak, regularly arched from beak to anterior margin ; beak broad, 

 projecting much beyond the hinge, strongly recurved ; hinge line nearly as 



1865.] 




120 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



lonoj as the srreatest width of the shell, formins; a rounded right angle 

 with the short lateral marsrins ; area triansular, three and a half tirces as 

 long as hish. arched in the quadrant of a cylinder, striated in hoth directions, 

 pierced by a foramen reaching to the yery apex of the beak, nearly twice as 

 high as broad, rounded at its upper anjrle. Mesial sinus deep, broad, regular, 

 beginning at the apex of the beak, the bounding ribs forming with each other 

 an angle of about 22° ; on each side of the sinus five larse plications, of which 

 only the first three reach the beak, the others terminating at the area ; tliese 

 are crossed by sharp, neat, imbricating lamellae of (growth, of which, in the 

 middle of the valye, about foiir occur in one-tenth of an inch. Dental plates 

 short, columnar ; a median internal septum reaching from a point a little 

 posterior to the teeth, as far i\s the middle of the valve, thick at the bottom, 

 thinned to an edge above. Internal surface of valve marked with numerous 

 indented punctations. Dorsal valve unknown. * 



Length, -48 (71) : breadth, -68(100); length of hinse line, -52(79); 

 height of area, -15 (22) ; convexity of ventral valve, -22 (33). 



From the Lithographic limestone, Clarksville, Missouri. "White Collec- 

 tion " of the University of Michigan. 



This species bears perhaps too close a resemblance to <?. soJuJirostris, White. 

 The single valve, however, on which the species is founded, is more convex, 

 with more rounded ribs, less regular lamellae, a higher area and more incur- 

 ved beak. This is the specimen referred to by White, (Boston Proc. ix. 25,) 

 and doubtfully identified with S. subtexta, White — a Burlington limestone 

 species. 



SpiEiFEEnfA BiNAccTA, H. sp. Shell of moderate size, transverse, with nu- 

 merous rounded ribs and attenuate hinge extremities. Dorsal valve some- 

 what ventricose in the middle, regularly archedf from anterior margin to the 

 beak, becoming depressed toward the lateral extremities. Hinge line elon- 

 gate, thickened at the margin, abruptly acuminate. Area narrow and long. 

 Mesial fold little elevated above the general surface, divided by a furrow into 

 two ribs, which, in old specimens, are again divided ; ten or eleven rounded ■ 

 ribs on each side of the mesial fold, of which the last two or three are subob- 

 solete. External surface finely and regularly lamellose. Substance of shell 

 thin and apparently pos.-essing a rather coarsely punctate structure. 



Length of hinge line, -78 ; length from beak to base, 'SO. ' 



This species is readily distinguished by its auricular acuminations and pli- 

 cate mesial fold. 



From the base of the Burlington limestone. "White Collection" of the 

 University of Michigan. 



Spikiferina soLiDiROSTRis, White. From near Hamburg, Illinois. "White 

 Collection." The ribs are more rounded than in the specimens from the Bur- 

 lington sandstone. The same species occurs associated with S. binacuta in 

 the base of the Burlington limestone. 



RHYNCHONELLA, Fischer de Waldheim. 



Rhtnchonella ? TETRAPTTX, n. sp. Shell minute, subcircular in outline, 

 with few and deep plications. Ventral valve moderately convex, highest in the 

 middle, with a straight projecting beak, which is circularly perforate at apex, 

 with a triangular opening below to the hinge. Along the middle of this valve- 

 is a very deep and very narrow sinus reaching nearly to the beak, and bound- 

 ed by a very prominent rib on each side, beyond which is another smaller rib, 

 making four in all. Dorsal valve almost strictly circular, with the same con- 

 vexity as the ventral, highest also in the middle, with the inconspicuous beak 

 closely appressed, and the middle raised into a strong plication or rib corres- 

 ponding to the sinus or furrow of the ventral valve ; on each side of this rib 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



is another strong one, and still beyond, a very feeble one. None of the shell 

 being preserved, uo revelations are made of the minute structure. 



Length, -17 (100) ; breadth, -15 (SS) ; thickness, -09 (53). 



Collected by A. Winchell, at Rockford, Indiana. 



The straight beak of the ventral valve, and the general aspect of the shell, 

 render the above generic reference unsatisfactory. Externally it seems to 

 have some relations with Trematospira and Leptocmlia, of Hall, while it still 

 more strikingly resembles Spirifer Buchianus, de Kow, (Anim. Foss. pi. xv. 

 bis fig. 3, and xix. fig. 6 ;) but until its internal characters are known, I leave 

 it where it stands. 



Rhynchonella heteropsis:, n. sp. Shell small, varying from sectoriform to 

 transversely elliptic, with moderately projecting beak ; very young speci- 

 mens in tbe shape of a barley-corn. Plications sharp, ranging in number 

 from ten to twenty ; of which three generally (sometimes two or four,) occupy 

 the sinus of the v^tral valve. This valve has a moderately sharp beak, 

 turned back in an angle of 45° with the plane of the shell, and slit (in the 

 cast) from the apex to the hinge ; sinus deep toward the front of the mature 

 shell, wanting in the young one ; the plications on each side of the sinus vari- 

 able ; four iu those with two plications in the sinus, sir, seven or eight in 

 those with three, and five in tuose with four, making the whole number of 

 plications ten to nineteen. These lateral plications are bent backwards in 

 approaching the margin. Greatest prominence of ventral valve near the beak. 

 Dorsal valve more ventricose than the ventral, most prominent at the ante- 

 rior margin ; mesial fold much less marked than the sinus opposite, consist- 

 ing of two, three, four or five plications, elevated at their extremities some- 

 what above the lateral plications, the remotest of which exhibit a strong 

 downward curvature. Beak of this valve concealed beneath that of its fel- 

 low. 



Length, -38 (,90) ; breadth, -42 (100) ; thickness of both valves, -28 (67). 



From one of the calcareous beds, "No. 4," of the yellow sandstone, Bur- 

 lington. " White Collection" of the University of Michigan. Also near Ham- 

 burg, Illinois, and at Weymouth, Medina county, Ohio. Whittlesey's Collec- 

 tion. 



I had hoped that these varying forms could be brought under one of the 

 numerous species already described from this group. It is a much smaller 

 shell, with more abrupt sinus than E. pustulosa, White, from the same loca- 

 lity. It is about the size of R. cameriferu, Win., from Pt. aux Barques, but, 

 besides wanting the long dental and median plates of that species, the sinus 

 and fold are much more strongly marked, and the transverse diameter is re- 

 latively greater, giving the rostral region less relative prominence ; and the 

 mean number of plications is considerably less. In the rostral region it dif- 

 fers from R. Sageriana, Win., in the same manner, besides being a smaller 

 shell with shallower sinus. 



Rhy.nchonella persinuata, n. sp. Shell of medium size, transversely oval, 

 with abbreviated rostral extension. Cardinal slopes nearly straight, sides 

 rounded, front straight. Ventral valve depressed, with about twenty straight 

 plications, of which eight occupy the broad and rather shallow sinus. Ante- 

 rior margin of valve abruptly deflected. Dental lamella extending nearly 

 one-third the length of the valve. The beak of this valve projects nearly in 

 the plane of the shell, and the lateral portions of the valve are continued, 

 without convexity, to the borders, thus giving this valve a peculiarly flatten- 

 ed surface — the broad sinus forming a similar plane lying at a lower level. 



Transverse diameter, -(57 (100); length, -52 (77j ; thickness of ventral 

 valve, -IG (24). 



Bttrlington, Iowa, in the yellow sandstone. "White Collection" of the 

 University of Michigan. 



1866.] 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



This shell suggests Terebratula pleurodon, variety polyodonta, Phillips, 

 (GeoL Yorks, pi. ii. p. 222, pi. xii. fig. 27.) It is a smaller species than that, 

 with a shallower sinus and an abruptly deflected margin. 



Rhtnchonella unica, n. sp. Shell minute, longitudinally ovate in outline, 

 the sides and front equally rounded, the cardinal slopes somewhat straight 

 and the beak acute. The peculiarity consists in the arrangement of the me- 

 dian plications of the two valves. In the middle of the ventral valve are five 

 sharp 2jlications which extend to the beak ; the two outer of these are very 

 prominent, projecting above the general surface like vertical laminae ; the 

 middle three are anteriorly depressed considerably below the gt^neral surface, 

 and constitute the mesial sinus, which extends to the middle of the valve, 

 and thence rises above the general surface to the level of the two outer plica- 

 tions. On each side of the median plications are four others, which, instead 

 of converging toward the beak in conformity with the median ones, converge 

 toward an imaginary point some distance in front of the beak, in consequence 

 of which the posterior extremities of two or three are overlapped by the median 

 set. In the dorsal valve four median plications rise in an elevated band and 

 attain an equal elevation near the front of the valve, but posteriorly, the two 

 middle ones of the four sink below the level of the others, and are lost from 

 sight before reaching the beak. In consequence of these arrangements, the 

 ventral valve presents a sinus anteriorly and an elevation posteriorly ; while 

 the dorsal valve presents an elevation anteriorly and a sinus posteriorly. 

 The two valves are about equally convex. The beak of the ventral valve 

 projects in a tubular form slightly beyond that of the dorsal, and exhibits a 

 circular perforation of the extremity. 



Length, -24 (100; ; breadth, -19 (79) ; thickness of both valves, -15 (62), 

 From Bed '■ iSo. 4," Burlington, Iowa. " White Collection " of the Univer- 

 sity of Michigan. 



Rhtxchonella (Retzia f) MiCROPLEUKA, n. sp. Shell of medium size, Retzia- 

 like externally. Ventral valve ovate, somewhat produced rostrally, with 

 rather straight lateral margins, and a semi-circular anterior margin ; most 

 tumid near the beak, slightly flattened anteriorly ; beak somewhat incurved ; 

 mesial sinus wanting or represented only by a slight flattening of the anterior 

 portion ; surface with two or three varices of growth, and about 50 rigid, con- 

 tinuous, rounded, radiating ribs, which are separated by narrower spaces. 



Length of ventral valve, •59(100); width, -48(81); convexity, -15 (25). 



Collected by A. Winchell, at Battle Creek, Michigan. 



It much resembles Retzia polypleura, Win., of the Huron group, but the 

 beak is less prolonged and less straight, and the width of the shell is greater. 

 1 know of no Rhynchonella which like this is without a sinus, and so finely 

 ribbed at the same time. In the first of these characters it is approached by 

 R. Huhbardi and R. Sageriana, from the same rocks. 



Rhynchonella Hubbaedi, Win. This species originally described from Mar- 

 shall and Ft. aux Barques, Michigan, has since been found by the writer at 

 Napoleon Cut in Jackson county ; and also rather plentifully in some of the 

 thin layers of sandstone at Valley Forge, near Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio. It oc- 

 curs also at Talmadge, Summit county, Ohio, in beds next below the conglo- 

 merate. Whittlesey's collection. 



Rhynchonella Sageriana, Win. Identified in Whittlesey's collection from 

 Weymouth, Medina county ; near Ashland, Ashland county ; Drew's saw- 

 mill, Big Brook, Orange, Cuyahoga county, and two miles southwest of North- 

 field Centre, Summit county, Ohio. 



R. iSayeriana has remote relations to some of the forms of R. pleurodon, 

 Phillips. Compare var. Devreuxiana, De Kon. (Davidson's Mono. Brit. Carb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 128 



Brach. pi. xxiii. fig. 19-21.) The ribs, however, are more numerous, and the 

 frontal commissure more deeply sinuate. 



CENTRONELLA, Billings. 



Cextkoxella Allei, n. sp. Shell large to medium size, terebratuliform, 

 greatest width a little anterior to the middle, contained one and one fourth 

 times in the greatest length. Ventral valve somewhat ventricose, full to the 

 immediate vicinity of the margin, especially along the cardinal slopes ; regu- 

 larly arching from beak to anterior margin, highest in the middle ; anterior 

 margin with a barely perceptible truncation ; no sinus or fold present ; beak 

 produced beyond that of the dorsal valve, truncated and circularly perforate 

 at the extremity ; dental lamellae more than one-fifth the whole length of the 

 valve ; muscular scars, consisting of one faint median linear impression, on 

 each side of which is another, all reaching to the middle of the valve. Dor- 

 sal valve with its short imperforate beak closely concealed under that of its 

 fellow, slightly truncate in front, but without mesial fold or sinus ; regularly 

 arched from beak to front, highest in the middle, exhibiting a convexity 

 equal to that of the opposite valve. Muscular scars consisting of a faint but 

 distinct linear median impression, with a much deeper linear impression on 

 each side, and a very faint one exterior to each of these — the three principal 

 impressions reaching to the middle of the valve. Shell thiu, stony and solid ; 

 structure beautifully punctate under a lens ; general surface polished, mark- 

 ed by a few feeble concentric lines of growth. 



Length of ventral valve, -66 (100) ; breadth, -41 (62) ; convexity, -19 (29). 



The dorsal valve above referred to comes from bed " No. 6," at Burlington ; 

 the other specimens are apparently from "No. 5." " White collection " of 

 the University of Michigan. Also near Hamburg, Illinois, and at Talmadge, 

 Summit county, Ohio. Whittlesey's collection. 



Though the peculiar loop of Centronella has not been seen in these speci- 

 mens, the characters given are so closely conformable with that genus that 

 the reference can scarcely be questioned in the present state of our knowledge. 

 It is a larger, more ventricose and more elongated shell than C. Julia. 



Centkonella Julia, Win. A single small specimen of this northern spe- 

 cies occurs in Whittlesey's Collection, from "one mile east of Orange Center, 

 Cuyahoga county, Ohio." 



Specimens of this species from Ft. aux Barques, have been employed by 

 Prof. Hall to illustrate the characters of his genus Cryptonella, (Trans. Albany 

 Inst. Feb. 3, 1663, p. 4; reprinted Amer. Jour. Sci. [2] xxxv. 399.) The re- 

 ference of this species to Centronella was made solely in the light of Billings' 

 description and figure of that genus and comparisons with the internal struc- 

 ture of Centronella glansfagea, the type of the genus. Prof. Hall asserts that 

 the description und figure do not bear out the reference ; and, having pre- 

 viously founded Cri/ptonella on the external characters of certain terebratuli- 

 form spt'Cies, he assumes that Centronella Julia affords an exhibition of tlie 

 internal characters of Cryptonella. There is not the least doubt that the ori- 

 ginal reference of Centronella Julia was correct ; and since its internal char- 

 acters are assumed by I'rof. Hall as being those of Cryptonella, the latter 

 genus is thus admitted by its author to cover the same ground as the older 

 genus Centronella. and must consequently pass out of use. Prof. Hall seems to 

 have suspected this result ; for in a note interpolated in the New Haven edition 

 of his paper, (p. 405,) he refers to a drawing of a specimen of C. glansfayta, 

 showing the loop, (sent him by Dr. Rominger of Ann Arbor,) and admits that 

 the loop " shows essentially the same character as that of Cryptonella.'''' He yet 

 insists that this character is not to be inferred from Billings' origiual descrip- 

 tion and figure ; and, expressing a doubt about the identity of Billings' type 

 species {C. (jlansfuyea) and the one figured by Rominger, "hesitates to 



1865.] 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



unite" Cryptonella and Centronella "until a reexamination of the original 

 specimens of Mr. Billings shall confirm his first observations, or show them to 

 correspond with" Crijptonella. It is this hesitation to admit the inevitable 

 consequence, and to retract his honorable and 'friendly, but unfounded criti- 

 cism, which induces me to reassert the correctness of my generic reference of 

 Centronella Julia, resting as it does upon the original description and figure, 

 and the observed characters of the type of the genus, as well as the subsequent 

 confirmation of the author of the genus, himself. 



OSTREA, Linnajus. 



OsTKEA PATEECULA, n. sp. Shell adherent, thin, small, ovate, deeply boat- 

 shaped, with the deeply excavated beak of the lower valve prominent, incur- 

 ved and somewhat posterior. The muscular scar is large, transversely broad- 

 reniform, concave on the cardinal side, situated nearly midway betweeu the 

 centre of the valve and its posterior margin, and is marked by two transverse 

 lamellose lines. The deepest part of the valve is midway between the centre 

 and the beak ; the depth is nearly the same for as great a distance on the 

 other side of the centre. The exterior of the shell is irregular with concen- 

 tric lamellose lines of growth. 



Greatest length, 'Uo (100) ; greatest width, -40 (61) ; greatest depth of 

 lower valve, ''J-o (35) ; depth of cavity of the beak, '15 (23). 



from the butf sandstone at the base of the Burlington limestone, Burling- 

 ton, Iowa. " White Collection " of the University of Michigan. 



The unexpected discovery of this oyster — believed to be the most ancient at 

 present known — together with its somewhat cretaceous aspect, awakened a 

 suspicion that it had not been found in place. To certify myself on this point, 

 1 addressed Dr. White on the subject, and received the following reply : "The 

 Ostrea, if I remember rightly, was imbedded in a white or light gray, silicious 

 material, of chalky appearance, containing some remains of crinoids and shells. 

 My impression is, also, that it was from a quarry about half a mile north of 

 my residence, and in the lower bed of the Burlington limestone, and not far 

 from its base. 1 think the label which accompanied it, and also my letter at 

 the time, may be entirely relied on. I admit the possibility of error, but I do 

 not believe there is any." 



Ptekinea geemstriata. Win. (Cardiopsis crenistriata, Win., Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. boi. Phil, riept. 18tj2, p. -ilT.j More perfect specimens from the typical 

 locality of C crenistriata reveal the fact that the species is possessed of an an- 

 terior wing, which is a mere flattened portion of the anterior angle of the car- 

 dinal line, with a barely perceptible sinus beneath. This feature does not 

 belong to Cardiopsis as defined, and establishes a probable conformity with 

 ^terinea. 



The right valves — recently discovered — might be mistaken for another spe- 

 cies. They show no radiating lines, except near the hinge, behind the beak. 

 The concentric markings are only small, irregular wrinkles of growth, with 

 none of the sharply raised lines which characterize the other valve. It is of 

 course possible that these right valves belong to another species, but as they 

 have exactly the form of the crenistriated valves, and the latter are all left 

 valves, it seems probable that they belong together. 



Ptekinea SPiNALATA, n. sp. (Avicula acanthoptera, Win., Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Jan. IstJS, p. 8 ; not A. acanthoptera, Hall, Grgol. Rep. 10th Dist. N. Y. p. 

 :^tj3.) Careful comparison with the types of A. acanthoptera, Hall, convinces 

 me that the Iowa specimens ought to be separated. The left valve of A. acan- 

 thoptera, Hall, has the body of the shell broader than in the Iowa specimens, 

 and both wings are less defined. The right valves, also, are much flatter. 



Amongst the Iowa specimens appear to be two types — one with the body of 

 the valve arcuate, and the other with it straight. The former type was 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



adopted for the specific description, (see the paper referred to.) The latter 

 may constitute the type of still another species. 



The species described as Avicula Whitei, Win., and Gfrvillia sti-igosa, 

 White and Whitfield, should probably be referred to Pterinea in accordance 

 with views recently put forth by Mr. Meek. 



AvicuLOPECTEX Caroli, Win. This species first described from the yellow 

 sandstone at Burlington, Iowa, is found also in the base of the Burlington 

 limestone at the same locality. " White Collection." 



AvicuLoPECTEN TExcicosTcs, Win. A very small specimen, collected by A. 

 Winchell, at Rockford, Indiana, seems to agree with the above Burlington 

 species. 



Other specimens collected at Germain's quarry, Hillsdale, Michigan, have 

 the same proportions and general surface characters, but they are once and a 

 half as large as the Burlington types, and the anterior aurieulation is marked 

 by coarser, instead of finer striae. The body of the shell presents about 57 

 striae and the anterior ear 8. 



The foreign analogue of tiiis species fit-ems to be Pecten arenosus, Phillips. 



PERNOPECTEN, new genus. 



Etymology. — Perna and Pecten, from a combination of some of the charac- 

 ters of the two genera. 



Generic Characters. — Shell bivalve, sub-equivalve, monomyary. Valves 

 more or less inequilateral and auriculate. Hinge line straight ; hinge fur- 

 nished with a central, triangular cartilage pit, and a transverse plate bearing 

 on each side of the middle a series of smaller pits diminishing in size and 

 depth from the centre outwards. The shell seems to be thin, and probably 

 has a structure more like Ptcten than Perna. 



This genus, or subgenus is founded oa Aviculopecten Umirformis, White and' 

 Whitfield, (Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist. vol. viii. p. 295.) My attention was 

 first directed to the peculiarity of the hinge structure in two or three sjieci- 

 mens sent me by Dr. White himself; and an examination of a number of spe- 

 cimens previously referred, to this species shows tliat they all possess it. The 

 genus Aviculopecten, happily constituted by McCoy to receive a number of 

 paleozoic species having affinities with P,'cten in their external form, and with 

 Avicula in their cardinal structure, is made by its author to difl"er from Pecten 

 by the absence of a central ligameutary pit, and from Aricuta by its nearly 

 equilateral outline. The present genus differs from Aricula and Aviculopec- 

 ten, and approaches Pecten and Mo/iotit, in the presence of a mesial ligameut- 

 ary pit; and it ditl'ers equally from Pecten, Aviculopecten and Avicula, and ap- 

 proaches Perna, by the presence of a series of isolated ligameutary pits in the 

 cardinal area. It differs from Perna in its sub-central beaks, witli ligameutary 

 pits on both sides. It agrees with A/nusium in its sub-symmetrical eais, cen- 

 tral cartilage pit, and the absence of radiating ridges, but differs in its straight 

 hinge line and lateral cartilage pits. The position of the genus is apparently 

 between Pema and Pecten, with a preponderance of aflinities for the latter, 

 sufficient, perhaps, to throw it into the family oi Pectin icke. White. Aviculo- 

 pecten is grouped with the Aviculidw. 



It is probable that in addition to the two following species, others referred 

 to Avicula, Pterinea, and more especially Aviculopecten, Amusium and Pecten, 

 will be found to possess the assemblage of characters shown in Pemopecten 

 Lima? obsoleta. Hall, (Rep. lOth Dist. N. Y., t^. 26b,) = Pecten suhobsoletus, . 

 d'Orb., is stated to have a " crenulated hinge line," while its external char- 

 acters are quite conformable to Pemopecten. Not improbably Lima <jluber. 

 Hall, belongs in the same association. The same may be said of Pecten den- 

 sistria, Sandb., from the Posidonomyenschiifer of Nassau : Avicula tumida and. 



1805.] 9 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Avicula IcBvigata, de Koninck, from the carboniferous limestone of Belgium, 

 &c. &c. 



This genus is known to have existed in the Chemung of Phillipsburg, New 

 York,* whence it probably continued to the epoch of the Burlington lime- 

 stone. An undescribed species occurs in the fine grained sandstone of Ohio. 



Perxopecten LiJi^FOEMis, Winchell. (Aviculopecten liiiK^formis, White and 

 "Whitfield.) In this typical species, the number of ligamentary pits is about 

 seven on each side of the mesial one. The hinge line is short, and the auri- 

 culations are small and Lima-like. 



Perxopectex LiiiATrs, n. sp. Shell rather small, moderately ventricose, 

 subcircular. Body of shell bounded by two straight lines diverging from the 

 beak at an angle of 126®, and proceeding to the superior lateral margins, from 

 which points the outline tf the ^hell is very nearly circular. Hinge line 

 straight, a little more than one-third the greatest width of the shell ; ears 

 very small, flattened, subequal ; the anterior (of the left valve) making an 

 angle of about lutl' with the hinge line, and 120'' with the body of the valve ; 

 the posterior ear forming an angle of 129"' with the hinge line and 146° with 

 the body of the shell. Beak small, inconspicuous, not projecting beyond the 

 hinge line. Convexity of the valve nearly a segment of a sphere, a little more 

 elevated in tlie umbonal region. Surface extremely smooth. 



Dimensions parallel with the hinge 1*20; at right angles with the hinge 

 1*05 ; length of hinge line "40 ; lengtii of anterior slope of body of valve '59 : 

 of posterior slope '47 ; convexity of left vklve '17. 



From the base of the Burlington limestone, Burlington, Iowa, a horizon 

 identified.by its fauna with the yellow sandstones below, (compare my paper, 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Jan., lbG3, p. 25). " White Collection " of the 

 University of Michigan. 



The internal hinge structure of this species has not been observed, but the 

 auriculations are scarcely such as belong to Aviculopecten, as defined by 

 McCoy, while they present a close conformity with the foregoing species. 



Aviculopecten occidenta/if, Win., differs from this in its longer cardinal 

 slopes, making a smaller angle with each other, and in its longer hinge line, 

 with larger and distinctly ribbed auriculations. 



Perxopectex Shcmardaxus, Winchell, {Avicula circulus, Hall, not Shu- 

 mard). It is scarcely possible that the species identified by Hall (Iowa Rep. 

 522, pi. vii. fig. 9) as A. circulus, Shum., (Missouri Rep. 206, pi. c. fig. 14), 

 can be the same species. Prof. Hall's figure and description do not show it ; 

 nor do specimens from the same bed, commonly regarded as A. circulus, Hall, 

 present satisfactory correspondence. The shell has a much shorter hinge 

 line, with smaller ears, joining the cardinal slopes by obtuse angles. More- 

 over the concentric lines are very regular, and the radial ones are faint, irre- 

 gular dashes, entirely unlike the continuous and distinct though diminutive 

 ribs of A. circulus, Shumard. 



Yielding to the suggestion of Dr. White, I formerly identified A. circulus, 

 Hall -before I had seen actual specimens — with Aviculopecten limceformis, 

 White and Whitfield. I am convinced, however, on careful comparison of 

 specimens, that we must regard A. circulus, Hall, as a distinct species. 



In general characters this species resembies P. limatus, and only differs in 

 its shorter and less sharply defined cardinal slopes, and the presence of the 

 two systems of superficial markings. 



PINNA, Linnseas. 



Pinna ? Maeshallensis, n. sp. Shell small, equivalve, compressed, lance- 

 olate, squarely truncate and gaping at the extremity opposite the hinge, and 



* I fiad that Prof. Hull has also marked this form as a distinct genus. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



acuminately tapering toward the opposite extremity. Anterior side nearly 

 straight, or distinctly hollowed. Posterior side parallel with the anterior for 

 half its length ; toward the hinge gradually approaching the opposite side. 

 The truncation is at right angles with the anterior side, leaving a broadly 

 gaping ventral margin. External surface smooth. 



Length dorso-ventrally "97 (100) ; greatest dimension at right angles with 

 this -26 (27)-; thickness of both valves -12 (12). 



Collected by A. Winchell at Napoleon cut, Jackson County, Michigan. 



MYALINA, De Koninck. 



Myalina Lowensis, n. sp. Shell rather small, vcntricose, obliquely elon- 

 gate-quadrate. Umbonal ridge elevated, arched, highest about midway be- 

 tween the beak and the opposite end, forming an angle of 50° with the straight, 

 somewhat elongate hinge line ; anterior and posterior sides parallel, the former 

 distended in a very shallow pouch just beneath the beak, the latter very 

 slightly hollowed throughout its upper half ; basal region regularly rounded, 

 with an obtuse angulation next the posterior side. From the umbonal ridge 

 the slope is precipitous to the anterior margin, much less so toward the pos- 

 terior, and it gradually subsides into a flattening toward the dorso-lateral 

 angle. Surface of shell nearly smooth, marked with line incremental lines. 



Greatest dimension — from beak to opposite extremity — '83 (100) ; length of 

 hinge line '46 (55) ; diameter, at right angles with umbonal ridge, '41 (50). 



From the base of the Burlington limestone, " White Collection, " of the 

 University of Michigan. 



This species resembles M. angulata, Meek and Worthen, from the Chester 

 limestone of Illinois, and M. Michi/anejisis, Winchell, from the Marsliall group 

 of Mickigan. From the former it differs greatly in its smaller size, its shal- 

 lower posterior concavity, and its less abruptly rounded base. From the 

 latter it differs in having straighter anterior and posterior sides, giving it a 

 more quadrate outline, a more elevated umbonal ridge, and a shorter antero- 

 posterior dimension. 



Myalina Michiganbnsis, Win. Collected by A. Winchell at Napoleon Cut, 

 Jackson County, and at Germain's Quarry, Hillsdale, Hillsdale County, Mich. 



Edmondia ? BiCARixATA, Win. A species apparently identical with this 

 occurs in a conglomerate four miles north of Panama, Chataque County, New 

 York, supposed by Prof. Hall, in his Report on the Fourth District of New 

 York, to constitute a portion of the Millstone Grit of Pennsylvania. It was 

 figured and briefly characterized under the name of Cypricardia contracta, 

 Hall. The later specific name must therefore be abandoned. 



Edmondia ^quiharginalis. Win. Specimens clearly identical with this 

 occur in the same conglomerate with the above, as also in a conglomerate at 

 another locality, supposed by Prof. Hall to underlie the Millstone Grit, and 

 to constitute the terminal member of the Chemung Group. 



The specimens of these two species occurring in New York, as well as the 

 two others to be mentioned, are preserved in Prof. Hall's cabinet ; and I desire 

 to acknowledge my great obligations for the opportunity afforded of making 

 the direct comparisons. 



Edmondia Burlinotonensis ? White and Whitfield. A lamellibranch, too 

 imperfect for certain determination, but closely resembling the above, occurs 

 in Whittlesey's Collection, from a place "one mile east of Orange Center, 

 Cuyahoga County, Ohio, 25 or 30 feet below the Grindstone Grit." 



SANGUINOLITES, McCoy. 

 Sanguinolitbs stbigatds. n. sp. A small species, resembling Area modesta 

 Win., from Burlington, Iowa. Unfortunately the specimen was lost while 

 awaiting a description. It had, however, been investigated and its generic 



1865.] 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE31Y OF 



position fixed. Coming from a locality difficult of access, and poor in fossils, 

 it seems proper to admit this reference to its existence. 



Collected by A. Winchell at Point aux Barques, Huron County, Michigan, 

 at the base of the Marshall group. 



Sanguixolites coxcESTEiCA, Win., (^Cardinia concentrica, Win., Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., Sept., 1862, p. 413). Collected by A. Winchell at Alan's and 

 Germain's quarries, Hillsdale, Hillsdale County, Michigan. 



This species is the analogue of Cardinia tellinaria, Goldf. sp., (Petr. Germ, 

 ii. ISO, pi. 131, fig. 17), but is more enrolled and more distinctly furrowed. 

 It resemblas also, in external characters, Allorisma Uannihalensis, Shum. 



In the original description of this species, "ventral," in the second line, 

 should be changed to " vertical." 



Saxgcixolites Hanxibalensis, Win., (^Allorisma Hannibalensis, Shum.) The 

 single specimen collected by the writer at Alan's quarry, Hillsdale, Michigan, 

 less resembles the original figure than it does the Burlington specimens re- 

 ferred to this species. The Hannibal type is more elongate, with broader 

 furrows. 



This species also occurs, satisfactorily identifiable, in both the conglome- 

 rates spoken of under Edmondia. 



Cardiomokpha Julia, Win. Occurs at Napoleon Cut, Jackson County, 

 Michigan. Collected by A. Winchell. 



Leda bellisteiata, Stevens. This has been collected by A. W. at Alan's 

 and Germain's quarries, Hillsdale, Michigan. 



CTENODONTA, Salter. 



Ctexodoxta Hubbabdi, Win., Nucula Hnbbardi, Win., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., Sept., 1862, p. 417; ? = Nuculites sulcatina, Conrad, Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Phila., viii. p. 250, pi. xv. fig. 10). Collected by A. W. at Napoleon Cut, 

 Jackson County. 



Amongst my collections from the Marshall group are numerous specimens 

 generically closely allied to, if not identical with, Nucula, from which I have 

 described N. Huhbardi, sectoralis, stella and loiomsis — the latter having been 

 originally described by White and Whitfield from the yellow sandstones at 

 Burlington, Iowa. To the Iowa species I have added another — N. microdonta. 

 These five species all present a line of teeth continuous from one side of the 

 beaks to the other, without the ligamental pit which belongs to the modern 

 species of Nucula. This variation attracted my attention at the very first ; 

 and I observed that the hinge characters seemed to identify the species with 

 TelUnomya, Hall, and Ctenodonia, Salter. A species from the Hamilton group, 

 and identified again in the Chemung group, had been described by the subse- 

 quent founder of TelUnomya, as Nucula bellatula, (Rep. 10th Dist. N. Y., p. 

 196) ; and Nucula hians had also been recently described by him (xiii. Rep. 

 N. Y. Regents, p. 110) from rocks of nearly the same age in Indiana, to say 

 nothing of the description by Stevens of N. Houghtoni, from the Marshall 

 group. Without being acquainted with the details of the hinge structure of 

 these species last mentioned, I yielded to the influence of example in referring 

 my species to Nucula. I did this the more readily, as Prof. Hall had expressed 

 the conviction (x. Report N. Y. Regents, p. 184j that TelUnomya would prove 

 to be a Silurian genus. It may be added to this, that Nucula ventricosa. Hall, 

 (Iowa Rep. p. 716, pi. 29, fig. 4, 5) does not possess the ligamental pit of a 

 modern Nucula, although it offers rather important departures from TelU- 

 nomya.* 



* A fossil from the Coal Measures of Lasalle, Illinois, usually identified with .T. ventricosa, Hall, 

 exhibits no Ueth whatever on the anterior side of the beaks, and thus presents generic characteis 

 heretofore uuolserved. This feature is shown in several separated TaUes mineralized by Jfyritee. 

 This character would seem to possess equal importance with the absence of the ligamentary pit, 

 on which Ctenodonia has been founded. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 129 



The uninterrupted series of teeth possessed by the Nueuloid shells already 

 referred to, from the Marshall group and its supposed equivalents, seems to 

 constitute good grounds for a generic separation. For this hinge structure 

 three names have been suggested. Nuctilites was assigned by Conrad to shells 

 having a continuous series of teeth and an internal clavicular ridge like C/i- 

 dophorus. This genus has a real existence in the Hamilton group. Tcllinomi/a 

 has been applied by Hall, and Ctenodonta by Salter, to shells having the ge- 

 neric characters of the species under consideration. As, however, objec- 

 tions have been urged against the import of the name Tellinomi/a, and, on the 

 other han(1, Prof. Hall insists upon the rights of priority over Chnodonta, (x. 

 Keport N. Y. Regents, p. 181), it becomes a delicate matter to decide between 

 the two. But since the genus Tellinomi/a was not founded upon characters 

 possessing generic value, while the real generic characters, owing to the state 

 of preservation of the specimens, entirely escaped observation ; and, since the 

 name proposed actually conveys a false idea of tlie relations of the genus, I 

 feel constrained, in spite of my desire to perpetuate an American name, to 

 pursue the same course as I do in regard to Athi/ris and other terms founded 

 upon a misapprehension, and, in their meaning, at variance with facts. 



In regard to Ctenodonta Huhhardi, I desire further to admit the possibility 

 that this is the species described by Conrad under the name of Nuculite>^ sul- 

 catina. All that is stated in the description applies to this species ; and the 

 figure also agrees. Nothing, however, is said or shown respecting the hinge 

 structure ; and both the description and figure will apply nearly as well to 

 Sanguinolites concentrica, Win., which occurs abundantly at the locality 

 whence Conrad's specimens were obtained ; while Ctenodonta Huhhardi., so 

 far as I have observed, is unknown at that locality. The latter, nevertheless, 

 approaches nearest to Nuculites ; and it may be fair to presume that Conrad 

 had a view of the hinge structure of the specimens he described. But it must 

 be stated, finally, that not one of the hundreds of specimens that I have had 

 in my hands, furnishes evidence of the existence of the internal septum which 

 is essential to JVucidites and Cucullela. For the present, therefore, I feel 

 compelled to regard Nuculites sulcatina, Con., as a species that has not yet 

 fallen under my observation. 



Conrad, in the paper referred to, has described Nuculites maclroides. If this 

 is really a Nueuloid shell it approaches Ctenodonta sectoral is, Win., without 

 being identical. If not a Nueuloid shell, as I suspect, it approximates Ed- 

 mondia cgquimarginalis, Win., but at the same time, I could scarcely iilentify 

 it. For the present, therefore, I leave it as I have left the species just refer- 

 red to. 



Ctexodo.nta STELLA, Wiu. (r= Nticula Stella, Win.,) also occurs at Napoleon 

 Cut, Jackson county, Michigan. 



SANGUINOLARIA, Lamarck. 

 Sangcinolaria rostrata, u. sp. Shell rather large, transverse, cuneate- 

 ovate in outline, of medium convexity. Beaks two-fifths the shell length, 

 from the anterior end, quite prominent, and rather strongly incurved. Great- 

 est convexity above the middle, c >ntinuing along the postoro-dorsal slope. 

 Hinge line somewhat more than one-third the length of the shell, slightly an- 

 gulated between the beaks ; buccal slope slightly curved, the anal nearly 

 straight ; extremities obtusely rounded ; ventral margin nearly straight in the 

 middle region, curved rapidly beyond. Longest dimension equiilistant be- 

 tween the beaks and venter. Pallial impression deep, without sinus (?) ; an- 

 terior muscular pit deep on the rostral side, roundish-oval, striate radiately 

 and concentrically ; equidistant between the beaks and extremity ; posterior 

 muscular pit more elongate ; a feeble ridge extends from the beak along the 

 inner border of each muscular pit— more perceptibly the posterior. In the 

 right valve a strong triangular cardinal tooth stands just anterior to the point 



1865.] 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF TBE ACADEMY OF 



of the beak, and is boiinded posteriorly by a deep triangular pit, and ante- 

 riorly by a shallower and narrower one. Nothing further is clearly known in 

 reference to the hinge. The shell seems to be thick and externally smooth. 



Length, 1-72 (100) ; height, 1-13 (66) ; convexity of one valve, -34 (20); 

 distance from beak to anterior extremity, "55 (32); to posterior extremity, 

 1-21 (70). 



Collected at Battle Creek, Michigan, by A. W. 



Resembles S. simili.t, Win., but diifers in more prominent beak, greater 

 convexity and straight ventral margin. 



Sanguinolakia similis. Win., occurs at Napoleon Cut, Jackson county, 

 Michigan. 



CONULARIA, Miller. 



CoxuLAKiA Newberryi, n. sp. Shell very small, in the form of a quadran- 

 gular pyramid, (the apex of which has been broken off in the specimen de- 

 scribed.) The pyramid is inclined over one of the angles. Angles of the 

 pyramid slightly rounded, and marked by a shallow groove running longitu- 

 dinally. Each side is marked by sharp, raised, transverse lines, which, in- 

 stead of running directly across, are angulated in the middle, so that at this 

 point they are nearer the base of the shell by a distance equal to once and 

 a half the distance between two lines. The distance between the lines in- 

 creases from above downwards, and is everywhere equal to about one-ninth 

 the width of the side. These transverse lines have the appearance of the pro- 

 jecting e^ges of septa, and are continuous from the middle of one of the 

 shorter sides of the pyramid around to tlie same point, though the ends do 

 not join but alternate in position. The sides of the pyramid are inclined at 

 an angle of 30°, and, if they met at a point in the perfect specimen, it must 

 have been about half an inch in length, with a width at base of about '17 

 inch. 



Collected by A. Winchell, at Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, in the water limestone 

 below the conglomerate. 



Named in honor of Prof. J. S. Newberry, M. D , equally distinguished in the 

 service of science and of his country. 



BELLEROPHON, Montfort. 



Belleeophon Whittleseti, n. sp. (" Goniatite, " figs. 1 and 2, Whittlesey, 

 Piy)c. Amer, Assoc. Cincin., p. 219.) Shell rather large, globoid, rapidly en- 

 larging, umbilicus moderately large, exposing one anterior whorl. Trans- 

 verse section triangularly and broadly lunate, the dorsum being slightly ele- 

 vated, and the dorso-lateral slopes slightly flattened ; greatest diameter of 

 section near the umbilicus. Keel rather distinct but with an indistinct band. 

 Surface marked by raised, rather distant striae, which emerge from the umbi- 

 licus with a slight backward inclination, and, curving forwards, pursue a 

 course directly across the lateral surfaces for two-thirds the distance from the 

 lateral to the dorsal angle, where they undergo a sudden deflection back- 

 wards, making with themselves very nearly a right angle, and forming on the 

 dorsum, by the meeting of opposite branches, a retral angle of 45°. Sinus 

 not seen, but probably triangular and broad. 



Greatest diameter of whorl, '87 ; dorso-ventral diameter of aperture, '57 ; 

 number of stripe in one-tenth of an inch, near the aperture at the point where 

 they turn backwards, 3 to 3^. 



This species resembles B. rugosiuacuhis, Win., in general features, but 

 lacks the longitudinal decussating strise. It may be distinguished from all 

 related species by tbe peculiar geniculation of the strise in the dorso-lateral 

 region. 



One mile east of Orange Center, Cuyahoga county, Ohio, 20 or 30 feet below 

 the grindstone grit. Whittlesey's collection. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



Bellerophon NAUTiLOiDES, Win., (Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phil. Sept. 1862, p. 

 427.) Collecteid by A. W., at Alan's quarry, Hillsdale, Michigan. 



Conrad has described B. stamineus, from Moscow, Hillsdale county, Michi- 

 gan, at which place I have observed both B. nantiloidp-f and B. (ptleriruhitux, 

 Win., and it is probable that he had one of these species in view in his de- 

 sciiption. The ten words employed in the description, however, will apply 

 equally well to half a dozen species of BeJIerophon ; and it is hence utterly im- 

 possible to avail myself of the results of his studies.* 



Bellerophon ctrtolite'^. Hall. This widely distributed species has been 

 found at Alan's quarry, Hillsdale, Michigan. 



PnGiuNCULUs? ACULBATUS, Hall. This Rockford species has been collected 

 by A. W., at Alan's and Germain's quarries, Hillsdale, Michigan. 



Dentalium ? BARQnENSE, Win., (Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phil., Sept. 1^62, p. 

 425.) Additional specimens from the same locality, show that the short tubes 

 supposed to belong to the shell structure, are not always normal to the sur- 

 face ; and that when the internal cylinder is removed, so as to afford a view 

 of the inner surface of the prismatic coating, the ohlong sections of the prisms 

 as they were applied to the cylinder, look somewhat like the polyp cells 

 shown in longitudinal sections of some branching corals ; and there is seen 

 also something like the same divergent disposition of the tubas. Moreover, 

 the structure is extremely like that referred to in the last paragraph of my 

 paper in the Proceedings for Sept. 1862, p. 430. This latter structure is folia- 

 ceous, but occurs at the same locality. Can these rigid stems, then, be corals 

 with very large hollow axes ? 



METOPTOMA, Phillips. 



Metoptoma undata, n. sp. Shell of meiiium size, nearly erect, apex nearly 

 central, aperture transversely slightly elliptic ; body of shell most inflated in 

 the middle, somewhat acuminate toward the apex, and contracted at the 

 aperture. Cast nearly smooth over the body of the shell, longitudinally un- 

 dulate near and at the aperture, with a few wavy concentric lines of incre- 

 ment. 



Height of shell, 1-15 (100) ; longest diameter of aperture, 1-06 (92). 



From Bed "No. 5," Burlington, Iowa. " White Collection" of the Uni- 

 versity of Michigan. 



The inferior side of the only specimen seen is defective ; yet there are in- 

 dications that it was flattened, as in the typical species of Prof. Phillips. 



Platyceras paraliqm, White and Whitfield. Identified in the Lithographic 

 limestone of Clarksville, Missouri. " White Collection." 



A variety more robust than the typical form, and wanting in the longitudi- 

 nal folds which characterize the latter, occurs in the base of the Burlington 

 limestone at Burlington. 



Platyceras vomerium, Winchell. From Sheldon's saw-mill, Big Brook, 

 Orange, Cuyahoga county, Ohio, below grindstone grit. Whittlesey's collec- 

 tion. 



The Ohio specimens have a dorsum not quite so acute as the Iowa types, 

 and an aperture a little less expanded. 



PLEUROTOMARIA, Defrance. 



Pleurotomaria QriNQUEsuLCATA, H. sp. Shell of medium size depressed — 

 conical, consisting of three or four rapidly enlarging whorls. Outer whorl 



•In the 4th line of my description of B . gaUriculatus, (loc. cit. p, 426,) for " ventrally," reaJ 

 " retrally." 



1865.] 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



nearly as wide as all the other?, having a nearly circnlar section, and pre- 

 senting on its exterior about five broad longitudinal furrows, covering the 

 space from the suture above to the base below ; shell otherwise apparently 

 smooth. 



Diameter of last whorl, 1*07 (100) ; height of spire, about -72 (67). 



From the oolitic bed " No. 6, " Burlington, Iowa. " White Collection" of 

 the University of Michigan. 



This species is imperfectly known, though clearly distinct from all other 

 species of this age, and hence deserving of notice. It is probable that the 

 base is regularly rounded into a broad and deep umbilicus, and that the 

 aperture is nearly circular. It calls to mind Euomphalus carinatus, S'ow., from 

 the " Aymesbury limestoue," but the sulcations are only half as numerous. 



A similar species exists in Whittlesey's collection, from "Sheldon's saw- 

 mill, Big Brook, Orange, Cuyahoga county, Ohio, below grindstone grit." 



Pleurotomaria vadosa, H;i11, (xiii. Rep. N. Y. Regents, p. 108.) To Prof. 

 Hall's description of this species, founded upon casts, may be added the fol- 

 lowing observations on the shell : The periphery of the body whorl is flat- 

 tened into a sharp carina, just above which is another, heavier one, but not 

 quite so projecting ; a concave belt separates these from another pair of 

 ridges which lie near the suture, and are interrupted by numerous regular 

 transverse rugiilations rising into minute nodes, on the ridges. 



Collected at Rockford, Indiana, by A. Winchell. 



Straparollus macromphalus, Win. Specimens having twice the diameter 

 of the types of the species, showing the tnbe septate a little more than one 

 whorl back from the aperture. One specimen preserving the shell, shows 

 that it was marked only by incremental lines. 



From bed •' No. 1," and the ooUiic layer, "Xd. 6." " White Collection " of 

 the University of Michigan. 



Straparollus ammon, White. This Burlington species occurs in the so- 

 called millstone grit of Western New York, and was figured as Euomphalus 

 ilepresms, Hall, (Geol Rep. ivth Dist. New York, p. 291.) 



Orthoceras Indiasesse, Hall. Collected by A. W., at Alan's and Ger- 

 main's quarries, Hillsdale, and Napoleon Cut, Jackson county, Michigan. 



Nautilus (Trematodiscus) discoidalis? Win. A small fragment from 

 Rockford, Indiana, affords strong presumption that this species existed at 

 that locality. 



CYRTOCERAS, Goldfuss. 



Cyrtoceuas Rockfordense, n. sp. Shell rather large, rapidly expanding, 

 especially toward the aperture, apparently forming, in adult age, nearly a 

 complete' whorl, la some specimens the transverse section is subcircular or 

 laterally compressed, in others decidedly elliptic, being flattened dorso-ven- 

 trally. The curvature is rapid for a shell of so large size, which renders it 

 necessary that the chambers should be about four times as deep on the outer 

 as on the inner side of the whorl. Septa deeply and regularly concave ; 

 siphon small, situated close to the dorsal side. No surface markings are pre- 

 served on casts. 



Transverse diameter of the last chamber, in a specimen wholly septate, 

 1-86 (100); dorso-ventral diameter, 1-35 (72) ; depth of chamber on the dor- 

 sal side, -59 (32); on the ventral side, -13 (7); diameter of siphon, -10 (5). 

 In another specimen the transverse diameter of a section is 1-60 ; the dorso- 

 ventral diameter, -170. 



Collected by A. Winchell, at Rockford, Indiana. 



It is impossible to affirm that this species did not describe one or more de- 

 tached volutions. In case such was its character, it must have borne a close 

 resemblance to N'lvlilus cj/doslomus (Phillips) de Kon., (Anim. Foss. 553, pi. 

 XXV. 1. a. b : xlix. 1, a, b.) 



[July 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



GoNiATiTES Allei, WIq. The most perfect specimens seen were collected 

 by A. W., at Germain's quarrj, Hillsdale, Michigan. Apertural constrictions 

 occur at regular intervals. 



GoNiATiTES Marshallensis, Win. Collected by A. W., at Napoleon Cut, 

 Jackson county, Michigan. 



Occurs also at Weymouth, Medina county, Ohio, 80 feet below the conglo- 

 merate. Whittlesey's collection. 



PHILLIPSIA, Portlock. 



Phillipsia Doris, Win. (=:Proetus Boris, Hall, xiiith Rep. N. Y. Regents, 

 p. 112.) This species was established by Hall on some pygidia occurring in 

 the Goniatite limestone at Rockford, Indiana. I am in possession of several 

 pygidia from this locality which agree with his description, though in the ab- 

 sence of measurements, it may be that his specimens are much larger. Associa- 

 ted with these are numerous fragments of bucklers, which prove that the trilo- 

 bite is a Phillipsia. The head is furnished with a border sloping downwards, 

 and 'separated from the cheeks by a deep but narrow groove ; the middle of 

 the border is marked by a groove which reaches from a point opposite one 

 eye, to the corresponding point on the other side of the head ; in some speci- 

 mens ihe latter groove reaches backward to the posterior borders of the buck- 

 ler. The cheeks are raised abruptly above the border, and terminated by 

 spinous points which are ornamented with raised longitudinal striae, and ex- 

 tend backwards a distance equal to one-third the whole length of the cepha- 

 lic shield. The principal lobe of the glabella is in the form of a prolate 

 semi-ellipsoid, is almost destitute of furrows, and is supported on each side 

 by a large complementary lobe. The surface is obscurel}* granulose. The 

 pygidium is in the form of a semi-ellipse, with the longer diameter trans- 

 verse ; it is convex, with a gibbous axis, obtuse posteriorly, and articulated 

 to the extremity. The lateral lobes are a little narrower than the axis, and 

 their terminal points join the extremity of the axis. The pygidium is bor- 

 dered by a plain belt curved downwards around its margin, and barely mark- 

 ed by a continuation of the articulations — except the two which bound it 

 anteriorly. Number of segments in the axis, 11 ; in the side lobe, 7 ; surface 

 the same as in the buckler. ■ 



Width of pygidium, -35 ; length, -21 ; width of axis at anterior end, -12 ; 

 width of border, -O-l. Length of buckler of another specimen, -31. 



Proetus Missouriensis, Shumard, (.Missouri Report, p. 196, pi. B, fig. 13, a, b,) 

 would seem also to be a Phillipsia, as well as its Ohio representative, Proetus 

 auriculatus, Hall, (xv. Rep. N. Y. Regents, p. 107.) Pictet says of Proetus, "La 

 glabelle est lobee par des sillons," and of Phillipsia, "La glabelle est com- 

 posee d'un grande lobe median simple, et de deux petits lobes latero-poste- 

 rieurs." Furthermore, Proetus Swallovi, Shumard, (loc. cit. j does not pre- 

 sent the posterior termination of the great suture required by the genus to 

 which it stands referred. 



Phillipsia Rockfordensis, n. sp. Cephalic shield surrounded by a nar- 

 row, convex border, which is bounded internally by a narrow but deep 

 groove, and terminates posteriorly in conically tapering genal points. The 

 principal lobe of the glabella is relatively very large, convex, highest in the 

 middle, widened anteriorly, circularly rounded in front, and gently curved on 

 the sides ; no glabellar furrows are present. The complementary lobes are 

 large, oval, and project laterally farther than the main lobe. The surface of 

 the test of the glabella is finely, but sharply granulated ; that of the border 

 is finely striated. Size about the same as that of P. Doris. 



Collected by A. W., at Rockford, Indiana. 



Cythere crassimarginata, AVin. Collected by A. W., at Alan's and Ger- 

 main's quarries, Hillsdale, Michigan. 



University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, I3th May, 1865. 



1865.] 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



On AMPHIBAMUS GRANDICEPS, a new Batrachian from the Coal Measures. 

 BY PROF. EDW. D, COPE. 



The recent additions to our knowledge of the air-breathing vertebrates of 

 the carboniferous period, are of great interest to the comparative anatomist, 

 as furnishing new points in the series of structures between the Ganoidea and 

 Lacertilia, or new " generalized " tjpes combining the structures of these and 

 of the Batrachia. 



I owe to Prof. Jos. Leidy, of our University, a specimen of a reptile, belong- 

 ing to the Illinois State Survey, in charge of Messrs. Meek and \Yorthen. It 

 was discovered by the latter near Morris, Grundy Co., 111., in a bed belonging 

 to the lower part of the coal measures. It is imbedded in a concretion of 

 brown limestone. The casts of the bones are occupied by a white friable 

 mineral, which has probably percolated into them. 



This animal combines with its Batrachian, a few Lacertilian characters, 

 having some resemblance to Dawson's genus Hylonomus, and much atlinity 

 with Prof. Wyman's Ranceps 1 y e 1 1 i i . Its squamous integument and narrow 

 nasal roof give it the somewhat Lacertilian physiognomy, more especially 

 Geccotian, in its broad cranium and orbits, its large marginal palpebral scales, 

 and rather short digits. Its true affinities are indicated by the presence of 

 two premaxillaries, with a squamoso-postorbital irch. as in Labyrinthodontia, 

 some Batrachia Gradientia, and Crocodilia ; its quadratojugal arch as in 

 Labyrinthodontia and Batrachia Salientia ; its posteriorly directed oblique 

 quadratum and lack of ribs, as iii Batrachia Salientia ; its probably short 

 pelvis, short separate bones of the leg and fore- arm ; its opisthocaelian dorsal 

 vertebrte, and long caudal neural spines, as in Batrachia Gradientia. It is 

 then the type of a group intermediate between the Labyrinthodontian and 

 Gradient Batrachians, distinguished from the former by the opisthocoelian 

 vertebrae, absence of ribs, and pleurodont dentition ; and from the latter by 

 the scaly integument, absence of ribs, and structure of the nasal and pre- 

 frontal regions. But one genus of Salamanders, Glossolega, has a similar os 

 quadrato-jugale, and but a part of one family, the Salamandridae, the post- 

 fronto-squamosal or posterior zygomatic arch. A ribless type might, however, 

 well exist among Gradientia, when we consider the great difference between 

 their developement in Pleurodeles on the one hand, and Amphiuma on the 

 other. From the Salientia the dentigerous mandible, squamosal arch, form 

 of vertebrEe, sacrum and extremities, etc.. widely distinguish it. To the Ba- 

 trachian orders Labyrinthodontia, Gradientia, Gymnophidia and Salientia, 

 the present may be added, under the name Xenorachia. 



The general form of the skull is much that of a frog, and large in proportion 

 to the size of the animal; its length is one-half that of the spinal axis from 

 the occiput to the middle of the sacral region, and five-sixths its own breadth 

 in the flattened specimen. The outline is not broadly rounded, as is usual 

 among Salamanders, but is slightly contracted, as in many frogs. The orbits 

 are large, regularly rounded, their longitudinal diameter one and one-half 

 times the frontal width ; their point of nearest approach is behind opposite 

 the position of the iris; one diameter measured obliquely, in advance of each 

 extends a little beyond the common premaxillary suture. 



The premaxillary bones have considerable horizontal extent, terminating 

 opposite the narial openings, each bearing eleven or twelve teeth. Their nasal 

 spines were in close contact, and do not appear to be prolonged backwards, 

 as in most Gradientia. The external nares are rather widely separated, as in 

 most Gradientia, the integument which they pierced roofing a large space be- 

 tween the median and peripheric bones of the muzzle. The roof of the nasal 

 cavities is a truncate cuneiform plate, whose apex joins that of the premax- 

 illaries. Its composition can only be conjectured, from the appearances pre- 

 sented by the specimen. It may be a superior ethmoid plate, as in the frogs 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



Borborocoetes and others, or, more probably, a united or separate pair of 

 free frontal, as in Dactjiethra or Rana. There is no trace of the composition 

 of nasals and frontals which occurs in the Gradientia, nor is such an arrange- 

 ment probable, in view of the regular elongate cuneiform outline of this 

 singular piece. A moderately distinct suture crossing the front at the ante- 

 rior third of the interorbital space, which presents a regular convexity for- 

 wards, appears to be the anterior border of the frontal ; the latter can scarcely 

 be an interorbital plate of ethmoid, as it appears to unite behind by suture 

 with the parietals. There are bosses on the prefrontal region indicating 

 prefrontal or " lachrymal " bones similar to those in Sceloporus and other 

 Lacertilian genera. 



What I suppose to be the coronal suture, since it appears to be too regular 

 to be a fracture, crosses the narrowest part of the interorbital space ; it is a 

 zigzag, presenting posteriorly a median angle, and one on each side. The 

 posterior zygomatic arches are strong, and bound a cranial plane, which is 

 broader than long, and exhibits nearly parallel lateral outlines. The probably 

 small " crotaphite foramina " of the temporal fossae appear to have been 

 roofed over by perhaps the strong scales of the cranial integument. The 

 quadratum is convex externally, and is directed obliquely backward to oppo- 

 site the occiput ; it is strongly concave in its posterior outline, indicating a 

 large auricular meatus. Whether this was covered by scales or by an exposed 

 tympanic drum, cannot be determined. The quadratojugale is broad and 

 strong. The postorbital arch is continuous with the quadratum ; the breadth 

 of the two equals the frontal width. The angular process of the mandible is 

 but little prolonged beyond the quadratum. The maxillary is toothed at least 

 as far as opposite the malar process. 



The dentition is pleurodont ; the teeth are only visible on the mandible and 

 the outer edge of the upper jaw ; they are there of but one kind, small, closely 

 set, acute-conic, not compressed, hollow, and without any inflections of the 

 enamel. 



The integument of the head was squamous. The scales appear not to have 

 been imbricate, and were perhaps more dense on the posterior regions, where 

 their position is occupied by the white material before spoken of, which has 

 here a somewhat ganoid appearance. They were more elongate on the muz- 

 zle. There appears to have been a distinct superciliary, and a postorbital 

 row, as well as a series on the border of the upper lip. A whorl of elongate 

 scales arranged like the pieces of an arch, surrounded the one on each side 

 which marked the crotaphite foramen. In the specimen these are connected 

 by a suture or line, which is regularly convex posteriorly. The superior pal- 

 pebrae were covered by small separated scales, as are seen among Geccos and 

 Anoles, and were bordered by a larger and continuous series, of about four- 

 teen subquadrate scales. These have evidently bordered the lid, extending 

 transversely across the orbit, and were not sclerotic scales, which are arranged 

 round the pupil as a centre. 



The vertebral column is much injured, especially in the cervical region. 

 The dorsal vertebrae appear to have been short, and probably thirteen in 

 number between the interscapular and sacral regions. They appear to have 

 been constricted medially. Traces of ribs or of transverse processes are not 

 to be found. The impression of a sacral vertebra is distinctly preserved. The 

 caudal vertebrae were perhaps without osseous centra, as no definite im- 

 pressions can be traced, and their place is occupied by the matrix. There 

 are traces of osseous neural arches, perhaps similar to those of Archegosaurus, 

 and apparently disconnected, long, compressed neural spines, and slender 

 pleurapophyses ; the latter were probably united as chevron bones. Of the 

 former, twelve very distinct impressions maybe counted to the sacral region ; 

 the posterior are most slender, the median most elevated, the anterior lower, 

 and of greater longitudinal extent. They are more expanded in the direction 



1865.] 




136 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



of the axis of the body near their superior extremities, and evidently supported 

 a flattened natatory tail, as that of Protonopsis. These neural spines were 

 continued on the posterior third of the dorsal series. The visible, which is 

 probably the greater part of the tail, enters the remainder of the column two 

 and a quarter times, by measurement. 



Sternal and hyoid pieces are not recognizable, though sundry fragments 

 are no donbt to be referred to these regions. An impression resembling that 

 of a raniform scapula, was probably made by that piece. The anterior limbs 

 were short and weak. The humerus is slender; its length equals the distance 

 between the centres of the external nares ; it is apparently not much dilated, 

 nor furnished with a process proximally, but is dilated and grooved distally, 

 and has no condyles. The ulna and radius are separate and slender: the 

 distal extremities of these, with the remaining bones of the anterior limbs, 

 have been lost. 



Of pelvis nothing is recognizable. The femur is slender, much dilated distally, 

 slightly curved in the posterior direction, and without condyles. Its length 

 is equal to the breadth of the cranial table. 



The tibia and fibula are one-half the length of the femur, are slender, most 

 dilated proximally ; the antero-exterior bone is a little longer, not in contact 

 with the inner distally, which relation I believe to be normal. The tarsus was 

 probably cartilaginous, as in Protonopsis (Menopoma), a faint impression of 

 the outer border remaining. It was broader than long, and without heel-like 

 projections. 



While the great shortness of the lower leg is a Salamandrine peculiarity, 

 the length and slenderness of the digits are quite Lacertian. The leg being 

 extended backward, the exterior or first digit is shortest, and a little less than 

 the second. This is equal to two and one-half phalanges of the fifth, freckon- 

 ing from its base.) or the proximal pair of phalanges of the fourth. The 

 fifth is a little shorter than the third, which is scarcely equal to the three 

 proximal phalanges of the fourth. The number of phalanges is 3 — 3 — 4 — 5 

 — 4 : among the Salamanders the last two numbers are usually 4 — 3. They 

 are without condyles, but exhibit one or two emarginations at their articu- 

 lating surfaces. The length of the basal phalanx of the first digit is two- 

 thirds that of the second ; the latter equals that of the fifth and the second 

 phalanx of the fourth ; these are very little shorter than the basal of the third 

 and fourth. The terminal phalanges are elongate acute, those of the first 

 and fourth slightly curved. They are much less obtuse than in Salamanders, 

 and the animal has probably had weak claws : of these no trace remains. 



A few traces indicate that the dermal integument was covered on the an- 

 terior part of the body, at least, with small and subgranular scales. There 

 have been abdominal scales arranged in narrow imbricate series, directed in- 

 ward and posteriorly. Traces of plates are wanting, excepting a small frag- 

 ment lying beside the cervical vertebrae. 



The length of this species from the sacral centre to the interscapular re- 

 gion, was 13 lines ; from the latter point to the end of the muzzle, 12 lines ; 

 to the occipital border, 4-5 lines. Longitudinal diameter of orbit, 3 lines; 

 frontal breadth, 2 lines ; from border of orbit to border of nostril, 1-5 lines ; 

 breadth of cranial table, 3-75 lines. Length of humerus 3 lines: of femur, 

 3-6 lines; of tibia, 2-3 lines; of fifth digit, 2-75 lines; of fourth, 4-2 lines ; of 

 first, 1-8 lines. The portion of the tail preserved measures 5-2 lines. 



If we compare the peculiarities of this genus with those of the Batrachia 

 of the same period, we find it to be distinguished, independently of the ordi- 

 nal characters, from such genera as Osteophorus, Melosaurus, Sclerocephalus, 

 Xestorrhytias, Baphetes, and Brachyops, by the absence of the sculpturing 

 of the cranial bones, the lack of dermal shields, characteristic of most of 

 these, and by the presence of cranial and palpebral scales. The crania of 

 the first genera are much more elongate, and imitate those of some Croco- 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



dilia. Similar differences exist between ttie Illinois Batrachian and Dendrer- 

 peton (Owen) ; the latter possesses also a double row of teeth. Hylonomus, 

 (Dawson), supposed to possess Lacertilian affinities, exhibits ribs and bicon- 

 cave vertebne. The ribs of Telerpeton will distinguish it also. The only 

 genus as yet known to approach closely that under consideration, has been 

 described by Prof. J. Wyman under the name of Raniceps.* This animal is 

 only known from a study of the inferior aspect of a portion of the skeleton; 

 nevertheless it is certainly different, being nearly double the size, and having 

 relatively longer and stronger anterior limbs. The angles of the mandible 

 appear to have been considerably more incurved than in the Illinois species. 

 They may have belonged to the same genus ; in that case the name here given 

 will not prove superfluous, as the older appellation was previously applied 

 to a genus of Gadid fishes. 



The name Amphibamus grandiceps has reference, first, to its two 

 modes of progression ; its flattened oar-like tail enabled it to swim in the 

 waters of the swamps of the coal period, and its elongate, clawed digits indi- 

 cate ambulatory power; perhaps it climbed upon the low limbs of the Sigil- 

 lariae that rose above the water. The animal was most probably nocturnal 

 in its habits. The humors of the eye could not have escaped far beyond 

 their natural envelopes, so that the subsequently formed limestone has been 

 hardened, and so fractured in nearly the form of the ball. On the fractured 

 surface below and under the remaining palpebral scales, the mineral is dis- 

 tinctly blackened, as by the pigmentum nigrum ; below the margin of the lid 

 this is interrupted by a discoid spot of the form and dimensions of an iris, 

 which presents a median lenticular vacuity, again revealing the pigment, ob- 

 viously the vertical pupil of a uocturnal animal. The preservation of the out- 

 line of color is certainly remarkable in a specimen of such great antiquity. 

 A somewhat parallel case occurs in the preservation of the ink-bags of the 

 Sepiat ; these do not date farther back than the Jurassic. These appearances 

 cannot be explained on any supposition of artificial production. 



August 1st. 



Mr. Cassin, Vice President, in the Chair. 



Twelve members present. 



The following paper was read and referred to a committee : 

 " Descriptions of new species of fossil Crinoidea, &c." By F. B. 

 Meek and A. H. Worthen. 



August Sth. 



Dr Rusciienberger, in the Chair. 



Ten memb'TS present. 



The following papers were read and referred to committees : 

 " Notes on a species of Whale found in the River Delaware." By 

 E. D. Cope. 



" On some Conirostrai Birds from Costa Rica." By John Cassin. 



♦ Ainer. Journ. Sci. and ArtB, 1858, p. 158. 



1865.] 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



August Ibth. 



Mr. Cassin, Vice President, in the Chair. 



Eight members present. 



The following papers were read and referred to committees : 



" New Polyzonidae." Bj H. C. Wood, Jr., M. D. 



" On a new genus of Vespertilionidae." By H. Allen, M. D. 



August 22d. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice President, in the Chair. 

 Eight members present. 



August 29 tJi. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Eleven members present. 



On report of the respective committees, the following were ordered 

 to be published. 



Remarks on the genus TAXOCRINUS, (Phillips) McCoy, 1844; and its relations 

 to FORBESIOCEINUS, Koninck and Le Hon, 1854, with descriptions of new 

 species. 



BY F. B. MEEK AND A. H. WORTHEN. 



The genus Tazocrinus, Phillips, as published by McCoy in 1844, (Garb. Foss. 

 Ireland, p. 178,) was founded upon Cyalkocrinus ? macrodacli/lits, Phillips, and 

 Taxocrinus polydaclylus, McCoy, both of which are described, and the latter 

 figured by McCoy, as if composed of five basal pieces directly alternating 

 with the five radial series, the latter forming free arms without any interra- 

 dial or anal pieces between. Phillips' figures of T. macrodactylus, however, 

 (Palaeozoic Fossils, pi. xv.,) particularly his figure b, certainly shows a small 

 interradial piece wedged in between the truncated superior lateral angles of two 

 of the first radial pieces. From these illustrations, therefore, as well as from 

 the fact that in redescribing the genus in 1851, according to the later im- 

 proved nomenclature of the parts, (Brit. Pal. Foss. p. 51,) McCoy distinctly 

 says "five hexagonal interradial plates intervene between the second primary 

 radials, resting on the upper lateral edges of the 1st do.,"* it is ma,nifest 

 that there is generally, if not always, one or two ranges of interradial pieces, 

 in adult examples of what are regarded in Europe as typical species of this 

 genus, when found entire. 



* From the species included, as well as from that author's usual method of describing the^ 

 parts of crinoids, it is obvious that by the words " five hexagonal interradial plates interyening, 

 Ac," he means a single piece occupies each of the five interradial, or rather four interradial, 

 and one anal spaces. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



The genus Forbesiocrinus, proposed by Koninck and Le Hon, in 1854, (Re- 

 cherch. sur les Crinoides, p. 118,) was founded upon their F. nobilis, which they 

 think probably the same as Poteriocrinus ? nobilis, Phillips, originally included 

 by the latter author in his hocrinitis, for which the name Taxocrinus was af- 

 terwards substituted, when he became aware of the fact that Isocriniis had 

 been previously used by Meyer for another group. In their description of 

 Forbesiocrinus, Koninck and Lehon characterize it as having five basal pieces, 

 alternating with five series of primary radials consisting of four pieces each, 

 with the anal and interradial spaces each occupied by from 12 to 13 pieces, 

 and the axillary spaces by three small pieces each. 



From all the descriptions and illustrations yet published, of the groups 

 Taxocrinus and Forbesiocrinus, it is therefore clearly evident that these two 

 types as understood by European authors, are distinguished by Taxocrinus 

 having but one or two ranges of interradial pieces, or none, and Forbesiocrinus 

 having from 12 to 13 of these pieces occupying each interradial spaces, and 

 a few small pieces in the axillary spaces above. In all other points of struc- 

 ture, and an-angement of parts, whether of the column, basal, radial or arm 

 pieces, they are understood and acknowledged to agree exactly. But as it 

 has been found that typical species of Forbesiocrinus, possess three more or 

 less developed basal pieces within or beneath those regarded as such by Kon- 

 inck and Le Hon, (Iowa Report, p. 628,) it might be supposed this character 

 would aid in distinguishing the two groups. It is well known, however, that 

 American typical species of Taxocrinus, without interradial or anal pieces, 

 or with but a single range of the two, such as T. Thieniei and T. juvenis,= 

 [Forbesiocrinus Tkiemei and F.juvenis, Hall, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. H. vii., 317 and 

 318,) possess precisely the same structure, being both described as having 

 small basal and subradial pieces.* Nor can we make the presence of inter- 

 axillary pieces, or the small patelliform supplementary pieces, so often seen 

 at the sutures of the radials in well defined Forbesiocrinus, a means of distinc- 

 tion, since neither are always present in otherwise typical forms of that 

 group with the interradial spaces filled with plates; while well marked spe- 

 cies of Taxocrinus, such as T. Thiemci and T.juvenis, Hall, (sp.,) the first with- 

 out anal or interradial pieces, and the latter with the " interradial and anal 

 series consisting of one plate each," are described, the first as having " arm 

 joints showing the small patelloid plates very distinct," and the latter, with 

 " the small patelloid plates indicated by the strong curvature of the suture 

 lines of the radial plates, becoming more distinct in the arm plates." So if 

 we attempt to distinguish ibese groups at all, we must fall back upon the dif- 

 ference of the one group being without anals or interradials, or with but one 

 or two ranges of these pieces, and the other with a greater number. 



Now, however well this difference may serve to separate into two groups 

 the few known European species, an attentive study of our more nume- 

 rous American forms has shaken our confidence in the possibility of separa- 

 ting all the species hitherto discovered, into two sharply defined genera, 

 until some more reliable characters can be pointed out. Our reasons for this 

 conclusion will be better understood by consulting the following list of 22 

 American and European species and varieties, with a tabular statement of 

 the number of the various parts of each.f 



• Our Taxocrinus gracilis, of this paper, with a single series of interradials, shows clearly 

 three small pieces uuder the five considered the basals, by most authors. 



t We have not included Taxocrinus interscapukiris, Uall, (Iowa Report, pi. i. fig. 3,) in tbit 

 list, because it deviates frum the typical forma of the genus, and seems allied to Vimerocrinus. 

 Phillips, though differing Irom that genus in not having the arms composed of a double series of 

 minute interlucking pieces, as well as in some other points of structure. 



18f)5.] 




140 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



'^ 



it: tD 



O Tt CO m ■* CO 



b 



o o 

 *-*'*eo-*-*co-*c':'* 



o .^ 



^ ^ ^ CO O CO "^ 



0000>-iOOOOO^O— 'O 



o o o o c 



CO O) 



■^ a 



o o — 



2 ® 



^ ^ O CO — oo 





o o o o -- — -< 







~a,^ 





s s 



•^ s 



s _r; 





"3 '-' » 







J- 3 ^ ■?: 



3 V s I 



Sl.'>' 





<i; S <i 



'^ S 2 ^ ■^ — ^ 



■^ ^ S K "^ *S '^ 



^^ ^ M ~ -5 S 



■w -^ ft 2 -^.= i: 



I I I I ! I I 



'.O i— 00 C^ O — 'M ri ■^ i^ '-3 



+ By referring to the description and diagram of ForbeMnrrintis Agaasizi, (Sup. Iowa Report,) 

 Dages 66 and 67. itwill be seen that one of the subra<iial pieces is there by an oversight described 

 as the first anal. It is also worthy of note, that the diagram there given, shows clearly five 

 basal pieces. If this is correct we may doubt the propriety of placing this species in the genua 



at all. 



It has not bsen considered neces,sary to mention in this table the number of hasal pieces, be- 

 cause both groups agree in having three of these pieces. 



+ Messrs. Lyon and Casseday described this species as the type of a new genus Onychncnnus, in 

 18d9. We do not see, however, that it can be distinguished from Forbesiocnnus, as now under- 

 gtood. _ , 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



From this statement, it will be seen that, starting from such forms as Taxo- 

 crinus polydactylus, T. Thiemei, &c., without interradial or anal pieces, we pass 

 by a very easy gradation through the young of T. commwds, having a single 

 range of granules representing iuterradials, to the adult of the same, with 

 one well developed interradial in each space, and one anal surmounted by 

 two or three granules. Then we have s-^veral other species, with a single 

 range of interradial and anal pieces, after which we pass to T. ramulosus, with 

 one interradial, three to six anals, and three interaxillary pieces, and then to 

 T. tuberculatus, with two interradial and two anal pieces in each space ; after 

 which we have F. asteriivforinis, with its four interradials and four anal pieces. 

 Continuing down the list, we find, as we pass from species to species, the 

 number of these intermediate plates increasing as gradually as we could ex- 

 pect these pieces in species of the same genus of crinoids to do, until we ar- 

 rive at F. [Vorlheni, with its thirty or more interradials, and twenty or more 

 anals. Nor is it probable this is the maximum number of these pieces some- 

 times visible between the rays, since it is known that in some species, such 

 as F. exculptus, Lyon and Cassedaj- (sp.), they continue on up, and pass with- 

 out change or interruption, into a series forming a solid dome above. Henoe 

 it is probable that in the typical forms of Tazocri//us, without interradials, or 

 but one or two ranges, and long ponderous rays, such as T. macrodactylus, T. 

 polydactylus and T. ramulosus, the visceral sac corresponded in size with 

 that of the column and rays, or in other words, extended as far up at least as 

 the second bifurcation, and that it was merely protected by a dermal enve- 

 lope between the rays and above. The fact that this integument protecting 

 the softer parts, may have, in some instances, merely secreted a rudimentary 

 piece at the bottom of each interradial space, or one or two well developed 

 plates, or filled the whole space partly or entirely, or i ontinued the process 

 of secreting calcareous matter, until the whole summit was arched over with 

 a solid vault, although probably presenting in the various degrees of this 

 process good specific differences, can scarcely, we should think, be regarded 

 in this group as presenting sufficiently important characters for the distinc- 

 tion of genera, especially when these differences are not coincident with any 

 other peculiarities. In addition to this, when we bear in mind that different 

 sized individuals of the same species, as in Forbesiocrinus Agassizi and F. ez- 

 eulptus, the number of interradial pieces are acknowledged to vary in the first 

 instance from fifteen to twenty five, and in the second from twenty to twenty- 

 five, we can readily understand that some caution is necessary in basing even 

 specific distinctions on these differences alone. 



Nor on the other hand, if we direct our attention to the primary or second- 

 ary radial pieces, or to the arms, do we see anything to sustain the generally 

 accepted distinction of two genera in this group ; for, if we make the radial 

 series, for instance, a basis of classification, we would have, as may be seen 

 by glancing at the 5th and 6th columns of the foregoing table, to place Taxo- 

 crinus nuntius, without anals or interradials, not only along with Forbesiocri- 

 nus spinifer, with its single range of interradials, but with F. Agassizi, with its 

 thirty to forty anals, and twenty-five to thirty interradials. The same me- 

 thod would also place a variety of F. Meeki with seven interradials in the 

 same group with Taxocrinus juvenis, Hall, with its single range of interradial 

 pieces. 



Now from these facts, it must be evident, we think, that if Forbesiocrinus is 

 to be retained as a distinct genus from Taxocrinus, it will have to be separated 

 upon some characters or differences not yet observed. Hence, although we 

 shall continue to use the two names, for the sake of convenience, ranging un- 

 der Taxocrinus species without interradial or anal pieces, as well as those 

 with one or two of each ; and under Forbesiocrinus, ihosQ with a greater num- 

 ber of these pieces, we shall do so — at least until better evidences of their 

 being distinct genera have been adduced — with the understanding that we 



1865.] 10 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



regard the latter group as a section or subgenus under the old name Taxocrinus. 

 In this sense, then, we leave under the names Forhesiocrinus, our F. Monroensis 

 and T. Nonvcodi. as well as all those mentioned in the foregoing list from No. 

 12 to 22 inclusive. Our FJ semiovatns, however, seems to be a typical Taxo- 

 crinus, and its name should be written Taxocrinus semiovatns. The species 

 Forhesiocrinus nuntius, F. Thiemei, F. communis, F. Kellogi, F. spinifer, and F. 

 juvenis, of Hall, we regard as likewise typical forms of Taxocrinus, and hence 

 their names should be written Taxocrinus nuntius, T. theimei, T. communis, T. 

 Kellogi, T. spinifer, and T. juvenis. 



Taxocbincs gracilis, Meek and Worthen. 



Body small, expanding moderately from the base. Basal pieces small, and 

 looking like the last joint of the column divided into three pieces ; subradial 

 pieces so small and narrow as to allow the lower middle extremity of the 

 first radials to come nearly, or in some instances, quite down upon the basal 

 pieces ; four of them triangular and more or less wedge-shaped so as to pro- 

 ject up between the first radials as much as half the length of the latter; the 

 fifth one larger than the others, but slightly lapering, and truncated above by 

 the anal? piece, so as to present a quadrangular or subpentagonal outline. 

 First radial pieces considerably larger than the subradial, of nearly equal 

 length and breadth, or a little wider than long, hexagonal in form, the infe- 

 rior sloping, and upper horizontal sides much longer than the others. Se- 

 cond radials, in four of the rays, shorter than the first, wider than long, and 

 generally hexagonal ; in the fifth ray of the specimen under investigation, 

 the second piece has its right margin enormously, and perhaps abnormally, 

 developed, and extended obliquely upwards, so as to fill the whole interra- 

 dial space above the comparatively minute interradial piece, quite up as far 

 as the second bifurcation of the rays, with one solid plate. In the ray con- 

 taining this singularly developed second piece, there are two other primary 

 radial pieces succeeding it, of near the natural size and form, upon the last 

 (fourth) one of which the first bifurcation takes place ; after this each of the 

 divisions bifurcates again on the fourth piece, and the two inner subdivi- 

 sions again on the fourth piece, while the two outer ones send off subdivi- 

 sions, one on the'sixth, and one on the seventh piece. In the ray immedi- 

 ately to the right of that just described, and apparently the anterior one, no 

 division takes place until upon the eighth piece, all the pieces between the se- 

 cond and eighth being transversely oblong or about twice as wide as long, and 

 gradually diminishing in size. In the other three rays, the first division 

 takes place on the third piece, and the second and third divisions also on the 

 third piece, the arms rather rapidly diminishing in size with each bifurca- 

 tion. 



Interradial pieces very small, rather longer than wide, somewhat wedge- 

 shaped above, and resting between the short superior lateral sloping sides cf 

 the first radials, and supporting on each superior sloping side a short trun- 

 cated margin of the contiguous second radials, which generally meet over the 

 little interradial, so as to isolate it from the free space above, though not 

 always. Anal piece a little larger than the interradials hexagonal in form, 

 and resting with one short side upon a truncated upper side of the largest 

 subradial ; while it connects on the right with a first and second primary 

 radial, and on the left with a second and third primary radial, and one first 

 secondary radial. 



Surface of body apparently smooth, but showing granules on some of the 

 divisions of arms. Patelliform accessory pieces not developed between the 

 primary radial pieces, but quite distinct between some of the secondary. 

 Column, as in other species of the group, round and tapering downwards 

 from the base, near which it is composed of very thin pieces. 



This species, although somewhat like T. interncapularis, Hall, (Iowa Report, 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



pi. 1, f. 3,) from the same locality, will be at once distinguished by its more 

 spreading rays, greater interradial and iuterbr.inchial spaces, and particu- 

 larly by its proportionally smaller and shorter interradial pieces, as well as 

 .by having the latter resting upon the superior lateral truncated sides of the 

 first radials, instead of upon one of the second, while it has no interaxillary 

 pieces as seen in T. interscapularis It likewise shows some differences in the 

 bifurcations of its arms, after the first division. 



A marked feature in the specimen from which the description was made 

 out, is the extraordinary development of the right margin of one of the se- 

 cond primary radial pieces, by which it is made to fill the entire adjacent in- 

 terradial space. This, however, as already stated, is probably abnormal. 



Locality and position. New Buffalo, Iowa. Hamilton division of the Devon- 

 ian. 



Descriptions of new species of CBINOIDEA, &c , from the Palaeozoic rocks of 

 Illinois and some of the adjoining States. 



BY F. U. MEEK AND A H. WORTHEN. 



RADIATA. 



ECHINODERMATA. 



CYST IDE A. 



Genus COMAROCYSTITES, Billings, 1854. 

 Comarocjji'tites, Billings, Canadian Journal, vol. ii. p. 269, 1854: Report Geol. 

 Survey Canada, p. 288, 1856; Decade iii. Canadian Organic Remains, p. 

 61, 1859. 

 "Body ovate, the smalh'r extremity being the base ; pelvis small, of three 

 plates, above which are from eight to eleven irregular rows of plates, mostly 

 hexagonal; mouth near the summit provided with a valvular apparatus; 

 arms free, grooved, and composed of a single scries of joints bearing 

 pinnulae ; ambulacral orifice in the api^x between the arms ; cQlumn round and 

 smooth. The plates of the only specit-s that has been collected present, in 

 some conditions of preservation, a peculiar vesicular structure of their exte- 

 rior surfaces, while sometimes they are solid and smooth." 

 " Generic name Comaron, a strawberry." 



COMAROCYSTITES ShPMAKDI, M. & W. 



Body obovate, the summit being more broadly rounded than the lower ex- 

 tremity ; height about one-tenth greater than the breadth. Basal pieces 

 wider than long, irregularly heptagonal and octagonal, extending out hori- 

 zontally from tlie column, and having, at two of the sutures, small supple- 

 mentary pieces wedged in between, so as to come nearly in contact with the 

 end of the column. Succeeding ranges of plates above, five, very irregularly 

 arranged, and differing in size and form, but increasing in diameter from 

 below upwards, mostly hexa;.'onal or heptagonal in form ; all deeply con- 

 cave on the outside, with prominent sharp carina at the sutures ; when these 

 angular prominences are weathered or worn, slit-like pores are seen passing 

 through the sutures, which they cross at right angles, being partly common 

 to each of the contiguous plates. Height, 1-50 inch: breadth, 1-30 inch; 

 greatest breadth of one of the plates next to upper range, 0--14 inch. Arms 

 and openings of the summit unknown. 



This species is nearly allied to C. punctatus, Billings, the type of the genus, 

 from which it may be distinguished by having only five ranges of plates above 

 the base, instead of seven or eight, as well as by the greater size of the plates 



1865.] 




141 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



near the summit, some of which measure as much as three times the diameter 

 of those of the correspondiag pieces in the Canadian species of equal size. It 

 is true these are prohably, to some degree, variable characters in this genus, 

 but not, we should think, to the extent exhibited between the Canadian species 

 and our specimens, in which latter they are constant. Again, where the 

 sutures of our specie.s have been worn so as to expose the perforations, they 

 are seen to be less crowded, and not so numerous as in C. punctatus, while 

 none of the plates, even where apparently perfectly preserved, show any 

 traces of surface strise. 



The deep concavitv of the external siirface of the plates in this genus, and 

 the sharply carinated character of tlie sutures between, together with the 

 irregularity in the size, f.^rm and arrangement of the plates, give a very pecu- 

 liar appearance to the fossil, tliat might, at a first glance, cause it to be mis 

 taken for a coral. When only found in the condition of detached plates, they 

 present a singular appearance, well calculated to mislead even an experienced 

 palaeontologist who had not seen the entire fossil, or enough of the plates 

 united, to show their true characters. The fact that they are all deeply con- 

 cave, and when unworn, smooth ou tlie outside, while the inner side is convex 

 and strongly rayed, would naturally lead to the conclusion that the outside is 

 the inner side, and vice versa. When a few of the plates are found united, 

 liowever, it is at once seen that the deep concavity is on the outside, and 

 the convexity and ra.\s within. These rays extend one from the prominent 

 middle of each plate to each of its sides, where they connect with those coming 

 from the middle of the adjacent plates. When three or four of the united 

 plates are placed with the inside upwards, the spaces between the rays are 

 seen to present the form of de p, triangular pyramidal cavities, the apex of 

 each cavity terminating at the meeting of the corners of each three of the con- 

 tiguous plates. The rays are as prominent as the convex centres of the plates, 

 and quite narrow or linear within, but widen rapidly towards the outside of 

 the plates. They are also eacli split longitudinally into parallel laminae by a 

 series of profound t'lits extending neaily to the outer surface of the plates, 

 and it is these slits that are seen, like pores, at the prominent angular sutures, 

 where the edges of the plates at the latter have been worn partly away. It 

 is difficult to understand the use of these deep slits, or divisions of the internal 

 rays, since, as noticed by Mr. Billings, they seem never to pass entirely 

 through the plates, excepting where the prominent edgt® of the latter have 

 been worn away. 



Named in honor of Dr. B. F. Shumard, of St. Louis, whose labors in western 

 geology and pa'seontology are well known. 



Locality and position. ~ CuTpe Girardeau, Missouri. Trenton division of 

 Lower Silurian. 



COMAROCYSTITES ShOMAKDI, Var. OBCONICCS, M. & W. 



A single specimen in the collection from the same locality and position as 

 the species just described, differs in being obconical instead of obovate, its 

 lower half tapering downwards gradually to the column. Its basal plates also 

 rise nearly vertically from the column, instead of extending out horizontally 

 lis in the typical form of C. Shujnardi. It has a part of the column attached, 

 showing it to be very nearly cylindrical, and composed of thin plates. In 

 form this specimen agrees nearly with Mr. Billings' figure 2, plate 5, decade 

 iii., Geol. Survey of Canada, from which it differs in having only five ranges 

 of plates above the base. It also agrees with the species we have just de- 

 scribed, ia having its plates above the middle proportionally larger, one of 

 these plates in a specimen only 0*72 inch in height, measuring nearly a third 

 more in diameter than those of Mr. Billings' species near 1*50 inches in height. 



It is quite probable this form may belong to a distinct species, but as we 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, U5 



are not clearly satisfied that this is the case, we merely call attention to it as 

 a variety of C. Slmmardi. 



Locality and position, same as last. 



GRINOIDEA. 



Genus PQROCRINUS, Billings, 1856. 



Porocrimut, Billings, Report Geol. Survey of Canada, 1856, p. 279 ; Canadian 

 Org. Rem. 1859, Decade iv., p. 33. 



Generic formula. — Basal plates 5. Proper inter radials 0. 



Subradials 5. Anals 2. 



Radials 1x5. 



"Cup conical; basal plates five, pentagonal; subradials fi^e, three hexa- 

 gonal and two heptagonal ; primary radials five ; one large azvgos interradial 

 supported on the truncated summit of the anterior subradial, and one small 

 one, situated over the suture between the anterior subradials, nnd having 

 above it on one side the large azygos, and on the other the left anterior primary 

 radial; several small pectinaterl rhombs similar to those of the Cijstidea.'^ 

 [Billings]. 



As remarked by Mr. Billings, this genus has the structure, so far as the 

 form and arrangement of the plates forming the base and lateral walls of the 

 cup are concerned, of Poteriocriitus: and Cijathocrinns ; from both of which it 

 difi'ers in the important character of having pectinated openings analogous to 

 those of the Ci/stidea. 



Our specimens of the following described species also show that this inte- 

 resting type also presents another character in common with some of the Ci/s- 

 tidea —that is, the possession of several large rounded, non-pectinated open- 

 ings above. Of these openings there are three, one on the anal side, and two 

 on the anterior siile. They are all nearly on the same horizon as the bases of 

 the free arms, though the anal opening is a little lower than the other two. 



So it would seem this genus presents, as it were, a combination of the cha- 

 racters of the Crinoidea and Ci/stidea. With the regularity of structure and 

 arrangement of parts of a true Crinoid, it has the pectinated and other open- 

 ings of a Cy^tidean. It differs, however, from the Cystidea in having the pec- 

 tinated openings located at the junction of the comers of the plates, instead 

 o{ passing through them near one of the sides, while the little bars protecting 

 these openings are arranged obliquely, instead of at right angles to the mar- 

 gins of the plates, as in the Cystidea. 



Our species also shows that the conical form of the cup is not a generic 

 character. 



POKOCRINUS CRASSCS, M. & W. 



Body subovoid or a little higher than wide. Base depressed, rather widely 

 truncated below, pentagonal in outline, two and a half to three times as wide 

 as high, with a comparatively large pentagonal central perforation ; basal 

 pieces wider than long, pentagonal in outline. Subradial pieces twice to 

 three times as large as the basal, about as high as wide, three hexagonal, and 

 two on the anal side heptagonal. First radial pieces of about the same size 

 as the subradials, apparently all irregularly heptagonal, each with, near its 

 upper extremity, a small outward sloping subc-ordate, or oval, flattened sur- 

 face for the articulation of the second (first free) radial piece ; four of them 

 with each one, and the fifth with two, of the superior lateral margins deeply 

 sinuous and forming in part the marg'ns of the large rounded openings of the 

 summit. Anal pieces two ; the first smaller than the other, quadrangular in 

 form, resting between the superior sloping sides of two of the subradials, 

 and supporting, on its right upper sloping edge, one side of one of the first 

 radials, and on its left one of the oblique sides of the second anal piece. 



1865.] 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Second anal oblique, wider (obliquely) than its diameter in tlie direction of 

 its verti'al axis, irregularly pentagonal, resting with its base upon the upper 

 truncated side of one of the subradials, and its left side against one of the 

 first radials ; while its upper right margin connects with another, and its sinu- 

 ous oblique superior side forms the under margin of the anal opening. Pec- 

 tinat-z-d areas situated in deep excavations, those at the angles of the basal 

 and subradial pieces largest, and obscurely trilobate ; the sm dler ones at the 

 angles above oval or subcircular. Surface ornamented with strong radiating 

 costae extending from the centre to each of the sides of the plates, and all 

 widening from the centre outwards. Sutures distinctly furrowed, even on 

 the truncated under side of the base. 



Length 0-72 inch ; breadth about 0-66 inch. 



This species will be at once distinguished from P. coniciis, of Billings, the 

 typical species of the genus, by its oval instead of obconic form, (being widest 

 a little below the arms, and rounded in above), and the strong radiating cos- 

 tae of its plates. We know of no other form with which it need be compared. 



Like the typical species, its free arms commenced with the second radial, 

 and were evidently slen^ler, and nearly cylindrical, or a little compressed late- 

 rally, and provided with a very small furrow above. We have not seen the 

 column, but it appears to have been large at its connection with the base. 



Nor have we been able to see the structure of the small crown occupying 

 the narrow space within the area surrounded by the arms, but it se«ms to 

 consist of about three or four comparatively large plates. 



Locality and position. Oswego, Kendall Co., 111. Cincinnati Group,* Lower 

 Silurian System. 



PoROCRISrS PENTAGONIUS, M. & W. 



Body pentagonal-obovoid, being more or less rounded above, and tapering 

 at an angle of about sixty degrees from the middle of the prominent sub- 

 radials to the summit of the column ; base forming about one-fifth of the 

 entire height, and having the form of an expanding pentagonal basin, with 

 flattened sides ; basal pieces pentagonal, and nearly twice as wide as high. 

 Subradial pieces as long as wide, and equalling nearly half the length of the 

 body, — the only one visible on all sides in our specimens, hexagonal in form ; 

 each prominent in the middle, from which point a well-defined ridge radiates 

 so as to connect with similar ridges on each of the surrounding plates ; the 

 ridges passing laterally and upwards intersect the sides of the plates, but the 

 one passing downwards from the middle of each subradial coincides with its 

 central inferior angle, where it connects with a corresponding ridge extending 

 up the sutures between the basal pieces ; the arrangement of the ridges being 

 such as to divide the surface into a series of large triangular, slightly concave 

 areas, in which are placed the pectinated opening's. Tliese openings at the 

 corners of the basal and subradial pieces consist of about twelve of the linear 

 fissures to ea- h plate ; those at the junction of the plates above smaller, with 

 a proportionally s'laller number of fissures. Form and arrangement of the 

 anal and radial pieces, as well as of the arms, unknown. 



Surface finely granulo-striate, the granules being ranged in lines parallel to 

 the ridges, particularly on the ridges below the middle of the subradials, so as 

 to preseut, as si^en under a good magnifier, a finely substriated appearance. 



Column rounded, and expanding rapidly upwards near the base, where it is 

 composed of very thin segments with minutely crenated edges ; farther down 

 the segments are proportionally thicker and more coarsely crenate. 



Length of body, U'-43 inch ; breadth at the middle of the subradials, 0*40 

 inch. Breadth of column at its connection with the base, 0-15 inch ; do. 0-72 

 inch below, 0-05 inch. 



* See Note at the enj of this paper. 



[Aug 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



This species will be readily distinguished from P. coniciis, of Billings, by 

 its broader, more ovoid, and more angular form, owing to the much greater 

 prominence of its subradial pieces, and particularly by the well-defined ridges 

 radiating from the centre of the plates. In the latter character, it approaches 

 more nearly the last described species, P. crassus, from which it differs in a 

 marked degree, in having its under side below the middle of the subradial 

 pieces greatly more tapering, and base much smaller, and not wider than the 

 head of the column, as well as proportionally higher. It also differs in having 

 its greatest breadth at the middle of the subradial pieces, which are much 

 more prominent ; while its pectinated openings are not sunken, nor its sutures 

 farrowed as in the last. 



Locality and position. — Treuton Limestone, of Lower Silurian; Dixon, 111. 



Genus HETEROCRINUS, Hall, 1847. 

 Heterocrinus crassus, M. & W. 



Body robust, but rather small compared with the arms and column, wider 

 above than the length from the base to the summit of the first radials ; dis- 

 tinctly truncated at its connection with the column, from which point the 

 sides expand rather distinctly upwards ; subpentagonal in outline as seen 

 from below. Basal pieces pentagonal, wider than long, and all excavated or- 

 indented on the outside at the superior angle and down the middle. First 

 radial pieces longer than the basal, about three-fourths as long as wide, 

 broadly truncated above, and regularly pentagonal in form, excepting two on 

 the anal side, which appear to each have one of the superior lateral angles a 

 little truncated for the reception of a small anal piece ; all deeply indented 

 at their iSferior lateral angles, so as to leave a broad, rounded, undefined ridge 

 or prominence descending from the middle to the basal pieces. Succeeding 

 radial pieces forming free arms, nearly as wide as, but much shorter than, 

 the first; in four of the rays all transversely oblong, and about three or four 

 times as wide as long, excepting the fourth or fifth pieces, which is pentagonal, 

 and supports, on its sloping upper side, the first divisions. In one ray on the 

 anal side the second piece is pentagonal, larger than that of any of the others, 

 and gives off a lateral branch from its short sloping side on the left,* above 

 which the other pieces present the same size and form seen in the other rays. 



Arms after the first division on last radial, bifurcating again on the sixth or 

 seventh piece, after which they are known to divide again in one arm, on the 

 sixth piece, which is as far as our specimens show the structure. 



Surface usually appearing smooth, but sometimes showing traces of scatter- 

 ing granules. Column comparatively large, distinctly pentagonal, and ex- 

 panding upwards near the base of the body, where it is composed of irregu- 

 larly alternating thicker and thinner segments ; central perforation small and 

 round. 



Height of body from base to the summit of first radial pieces, 0-35 inch ; 

 breadth at summit of first radials, about 0-(37 inch ; length of five succeeding 

 radial pieces, 0-4(j inch ; breadth of do. about 0-15 inch. Breadth of column 

 at its connection with the base, 0"32 inch. 



This is perhaps the largest and most robust species of the genus known. It 

 is composed of thick, strong plates, and the indentations or excavations at 

 the points wliere the superior angle of each basal plate connects with the 

 inferior lateral angles of the first radials, together with the more shallow 

 depressions extending down from these points to the lower margin of the basal 

 pieces, give a pentagonal outline to the body— the five angles being coincident 

 with those of tlie column. 



* From some of the specimens it appears somewhat doubtful whether this may not be a range 

 of anal pieces, instead uf a branch of the arm. 



1865.] 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati Group of the Lower Silurian series ; 

 Kendall Co., Illinois. 



HeTEROCRINUS SUBCRASSrS, M. & W. 



This species agrees so nearly with the last in most of its characters as to 

 render a detailed description unnecessary. It will be readily distinguished, 

 however, by its smaller size, as well as its less robust appearance, and the 

 different aspect of its arms. This latter difference consists in the more slender 

 appearance of all the divisions, and particularly in the joints of which they 

 are composed having their upper margins projecting beyond the base of each 

 succeeding piece above, so as to present a kind of upward imbricating appear- 

 ance and roughness, not seen in the arms of H. crassus. 



As in the last, its rays bifurcate iirst on the fifth and sixth pieces, and one 

 of them gives off a branch (?) on the leftside of the second radial, above which it 

 bifurcates regularly on the sixth piece. After the first regular division on the 

 last radial piece, some of the arms are seen to divide again on the fourth, 

 others on the fifth, and others on the sixth pieces, after which one division is 

 known to bifurcate on the sixth piece, and still again on the thirteenth. 



Breadth of body at the summit of the first radial pieces, 0-27 inch ; height 

 of do., 0-13 inch; length of rays from top of first radial pieces to the first 

 bifurcation, 0.21 inch ; entire length of arms from first division to extremities, 

 about 1*50 inches. Breadth of column at its connection with the base, 0-15 

 inch. 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati, Ohio. Cincinnati Group of Lower Silu- 

 rian . 



HeTEROCRINUS ? INCURVUS, M. & W. ^ 



Subgenus Anomalocrinns, M. & W. 



Body expanding rapidly from the base to the summit of the first and second 

 radial pieces, where it is more than twice as wide as high ; composed of the 

 five basal, five first radial, and two second radial pieces. Basal pieces pen- 

 tagonal, of moderate size, wider than long, and forming together a low rapidly- 

 expanding, pentagonal cup. First radial pieces in three of the rays from 

 three to five times as large as the basal pieces, wider than long, two hexagonal 

 and one heptagonal, — all with their superior lateral angles strongly incurved 

 between the arms, and each with a small protuberant, rounded facet above, 

 for the reception of the small succeeding radials. In the remaining two rays, 

 the first pieces are smaller and lower than those of the others, and each pen- 

 tagonal in form, with the upper side horizontally truncated its entire breadth, 

 for the reception of a larger second radial, \ hich in these two rays agrees in 

 size and form, as well as in being included as a part of the walls of the body, 

 with the large first pieces of the other rays. Succeeding radials not more 

 than one-third as wide as those included in the walls of the cup, and forming 

 small, rounded, widely separated free arms, consisting of one to three quad- 

 rangular and one pentagonal pieces to each ray. Arms above the first bifur- 

 cation on the second or third pentagonal free radial, in two of the rays seen, 

 bifurcating again on the third piece, and, in one instance, sending off nearly 

 at right angles from the second piece after the first division, a strong tentacle, 

 or small lateral branch. 



First anal piece pentagonal, longer than wide, and resting between the left 

 sloping side of a large second primary radial and the right sloping side of a 

 first primary radial, with rather less than half its length projecting above the 

 former, and without extending down so as to bring its base in contact with 

 any of the other plates below. In the individual examined, this piece is 

 strongly incurveil, and supports on its inner truncated end an oblong, narrow 

 second anal, which in its turn supports a smaller third piece, all of which are 

 arranged in a right line, and probably form one side of a proboscis. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Surface smooth, or only with traces of fine granules. Sutures a little con- 

 cave. Column comparatively strong and rounded near the base, where it is 

 composed of short joints, and marked with obscure, regular longitudinal striae. 



Height of body on the anal side, 0.28 inch ; do. on the opposite side, 0.22 

 inch ; greatest breadth above (allowing for a slight accidental compression) 

 about 0.38 inch ; breadth of free arms at their connection with the body, 0.08 

 inch ; breadth of column at its connection with the base, 0.16 inch. 



This species presents points of analogy both to Heterocrimis^ Hall, and Hyho- 

 criniis, Billings, and yet seems to differ from both to such an extent, that if 

 we could be sure some of its peculiarities are not abnormal in our specimen, 

 we would be inclined to view it as the type of a new genus. As we have seen 

 but the one specimen, however, which is not complete in all its parts, we 

 have concluded to place it, for the present at least, as the type of a subgenus 

 under Heterocrinus. It differs from the typical species of that genus in having 

 the column round instead of pentagonal, and in having only the first primary 

 radial pieces in three of the rays, and two in each of the others, included as a 

 part of the walls of the body ; while its preceding primary radials are very 

 narrow, and form small, rounded, distantly separated arms, instead of being 

 nearly as wide as those soldered in the walls of the cup. Another peculiarity 

 is the strongly incurved superior lateral angles of the large radial pieces around 

 the margin of the cup between the arms. 



In the rather unsymmetrical form of the body, the slender proportions of 

 the free arms, and its general aspect, it resembles Hybocrinus, from which it 

 differs in having but one anal piece connected with the walls of the cup, and 

 in having two of the rays and two of the primary pieces included in the wall, 

 while its free arms bifurcate twice or oftener, instead of being simple from 

 their origin. 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati, Ohio. Cincinnati Group of Lower Si- 

 lurian. 



Genus ERISOCRINUS, M. & W. 



Erisocrinus, M. & W., Am. .Jour. Sci. xxix. p. 174, March, 1865. 

 Philocrinus, M. & W., ib., May, 1865 ; not Koninck, 1863. 



Generic formula. 



Basal pieces, 5 'i 



Subradials, 5 > united to form the walls of the body. 



Radials, 2x5) 



Anals and interradials, 0. 

 Soon after publishing the description of this genus, we were led by its simi- 

 larity to a genus described by Prof. Koninck, from the Carboniferous rocks of 

 India, to believe it identical, and ranged our species under that name. Later 

 comparisons have caused us, however, to doubt the correctness of this con- 

 clusion. If there is no mistake in regard to Philocrinus being without a range 

 of subradial pieces, then the two types would be clearly distinct. The fact, 

 however, that the basal pieces in Erisocrinus are small, and might be easily 

 overlooked in imperfect specimens, taken in connection with the fact that the 

 lowest range of pieces represented in Prof. Koninck's figure, if true basals, 

 would have to present a singularly elongated cuneiform outline, leads us to 

 suspect there may be another range of small true basal pieces below them, 

 but not visible, from some imperfection in the specimen in Prof. Koninck's 

 type. If so, then the identity of our Crinoid with our Indian type would be 

 complete. Until this question can be satisfactorily settled, however, we have 

 concluded to retain our name Erisocrinus for the American type. Should 

 they prove identical, however, of course Prof. Koninck's name will have to 

 take precedence, since it has priority of date. 

 1865.] 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ErISOCKINUS CONOIDEtrS, M. & W. 



Body small, below the summit of the first radials obconic, nearly twice as 

 wide as high ; basal pieces a little wider than locg, pentagonal as seen pro- 

 jecting beyond the column, and forming together a small low cup with di- 

 verging sides ; subradials near three times as large as the basal pieces, a little 

 wider than long, and all hexagonal ; first radial pieces half as long as wide, 

 about twice as large as the subradials, and all broadly truncated on the same 

 horizontal plane above, for the reception of the second radial pieces. Surface 

 smooth ; sutures linear, not impressed ; plates not convex. Column and all 

 the parts above the first radial pieces unknown. 



Height to summit of first radials, 0-20 inch ; breadth of do. 0-34 inch. 



This species will be at once distinguished from young specimens of the last 

 of its own size, by its obconic, instead of basin-shaped cup. From Prof. Ko- 

 ninck's species cometa (in case our species should really belong to his genus) 

 it will be distinguished specifically by the less convex outline of the sloping 

 under sides of its cup, as well as by its shorter and proportionally wide first 

 radial pieces. It will of course have to take the name PhiJocrinus conoideus, 

 in case Prof. Koninck's species should prove generically identical with these 

 American forms. 



Localiti/ and position. — Springfield, 111., Coal Measures. 



Erisocrincs tuberculatus, M. & W. 



Although we only know this fine species from its detached plates, these 

 agree so exactly in form with the corresponding parts of our Erisocrinus tt/pus 

 from the same beds, that scarcely a doubt can be entertained in regard to 

 their belonging to the same genus ; while they difi'er so remarkably in their 

 surface characters as to be distinguished at a glance, specifically, from that or 

 any other Crinoid known in our Coal Measures. This difference consists in 

 their entire external surface being covered with regularly disposed, narrow, 

 prominent tubercles, instead of being smooth. 



Of these tubercles there are, on a first radial plate measuring 0-90 inch in 

 breadth and 0-54 inch in height, about thirty in number, arranged so as to 

 form two rows of about eight each, ranging parallel to the inferior eloping 

 margins, and one row of about eight along the superior margin. Between 

 this latter row and those below, there are usually a few tubercles either iso- 

 lated or forming a third transverse row. There is likewise usually one or 

 several others at the lower middle angle outside of the regular rows. This 

 arrangement of the tubercles into rows is not, however, always obvious at a 

 first glance, but a tendency to such a disposition can always be seen. 



On the second radials the tubercles are arranged in a single row along the 

 lower and each superior sloping margin, with one or more in the middle be- 

 tween the rows. In the articulating, or connecting surfaces of the radial 

 plates, we observe no differences between these pieces and those of the corre- 

 sponding parts of E. typus. 



Some of the plates indicate a transverse diameter of 1*40 inch for the entire 

 body. 



If our proposed genus Erisocrinus is, as we have suspected, identical with 

 Philocrinus of Koninck, the name of this species will have to be written Philo- 

 crinus tuherculaius. 



Locality and position. Upper Coal Measures. Sugar Creek, Sangamon Co. , 

 111., and near Brighton, Jersey Co. 



Genus CYATHOCRINUS, Miller, 1821. 

 Cyathocrincs quinquelobus, M. & W. • 



Body broad basin-shaped, composed of very thick, strong plates ; height to 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



summit of first radial pieces, less than half the width. Base small, a little 

 concave below, or forming a nearly flat pentagonal disk ; basal pieces about 

 half hi'lden by the column — the portion of each exposed pentagonal in form. 

 Subradial pieces much larger than the basal, four of them hexagonal, and one 

 on the anal side heptagonal ; each having a strongly elevated, bicarinate pro- 

 tuberance, extending out horizontally almost its entire length, like the rays 

 of a star, upon which the body rests when placed with the under side down. 

 First radial pieces two and a half to three times as wide as high, pentagonal, 

 and all transversely truncate their entire breadth above, for the reception of 

 the succeeding radials, so as to present a broad, moderately concave, outward 

 sloping facet above ; those of the two antero-lateral rays each nearly twice as 

 long as the others, and provided ne tr the middle of the upper margin with 

 two angular nodes or prominences ; sutures close fitting, and not very appa- 

 rent. First anal piece small, quadrangular, a little wider than high ; resting 

 upon the truncated upper side of one of the subradials, and connecting on 

 each side with a first radial, above which it does not project. 



Columnar facet of moderate size, a little concave, with a rather small, 

 rounded, central perforation, and traces of radiating strise around the margin. 

 Surface finely and regularly granulose. 



Height to summit of first radial pieces, 0-55 inch ; greater transverse diame- 

 ter, at summit of first radials, 1*04 inches. 



This species is evidently allied to C. sculpt ills* of Hall, from the Burlington 

 limestone ; but it is much more robust, and has more prominent subradial 

 pieces, with the prominences more grooved along the middle. Its base is also 

 more concave, and its first radial pieces, particularly the anterior and postero- 

 lateral, proportionately shorter ; while it shows no tendency to develop ridges 

 across from the subradials to first radials, nor has it any surface striae. 



Localitj] and position. — Warsaw, 111. Keokuk division of subcarboniferous 

 series. 



CyATHOCRINUS StJBTUMIDUS, M. & W. 



Body below the summit of the first radial pieces, cup-shaped, robust, rather 

 deep, somewhat rounded below, with nearly vertical sides. Basal pieces well 

 developed, pentagonal, convex, about as wide as long. Subradials four or 

 five times as large as the basal pieces, thick, and very strongly convex, 

 slightly higher than wide, four hexagonal and one apparently heptagonal. 

 First radial plates about the size of the subradials, having a general pentago- 

 nal outline, with the two superior lateral angles usually a little truncated, 

 apparently by the first series of the vault pieces — not tumid, like the plates 

 below ; each with a moderately concave outward-sloping facet for the recep- 

 tion of the next radial above. Succeeding primary radials (of which one 

 ray shows two, and another three,) about half as wide as the first radial 

 pieces, all rounded on the back, two in one ray, and one in another, trans- 

 versely oblong ; the last one in each of these rays proportionally a little 

 larger than the others, and supporting on its superior sloping sides the arms, 

 which, in the anterior ray, bifurcate again on the second piece. (Number and 

 arrangement of the anal pieces unknown.) 



Breadth of body, 090 inch ; height of body to summit of first radials, 0-72 

 inch. 



This species has the general aspect of Cyathocrinus hullatus and C protuhe- 

 rans, Hall, (Iowa Report, G24 and 62(i,) but difiers from both in having its 



*VVe now regard our C.sc<<«iMs (Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., Sept., 1860, p. 393,) a.i a synonym 

 of C. sculpiau. Hall. Our description was going through the press when we first saw I'mf. Hall's 

 Supplement to the I.iwa Hep irt. in which he describi-d his C. sculptilis.nnd, owing to the neressa- 

 ry haste with which our comparisons had to be made, and the fact that I'rof. Ilall hail inadvert- 

 ently described oue of the subradi .1 pieces of his species as the first aual piece, aud the first anal 

 as the second, caused us to overlook their probable identity. 



1865.] 




152 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE AL..UEMY OF 



basal pieces proportionally much larger and more tumid, and its radials above 

 the first narrower and proportionally longer. From C. protuberans it also 

 differs in not having its first radial pieces tumid, while one of its arms after 

 the first division is seen to bifurcate again on the third piece, instead of 

 merely giving off small lateral branches, as in C. protuberans. 



Our specimen being defective on the anal side, we have been unable to de- 

 termine whether it has one only, or two anal pieces soldered in the wall of 

 the cup, though it appears to have but one. 



Localiti/ and position. — Keokuk limestone, of subcarboniferous series. Near 

 White Hall, Green County, 111. 



Ctathocrinus esormis, M. & W. 



Poteriocrinus? enormis,'^!. & W. Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., June, 1861, p. 137. 

 Although this species possesses the structure and arrangement of the parts 

 composing the walls of the body, including the anal pieces, of Poteriocrinus, 

 the fact that it has a slender lateral proboscis, not larger than one of its arms, 

 instead of a large trunk nearly as wide as the body, as seen in typical species 

 of Po;e/-!ocr('«us, leads us to the conclusion that it more properly belongs to 

 the allied group of Cyathocrinus. This conclusion is also sustained by the 

 appearance of an opening in the summit, near the small lateral proboscis. 

 These differences in the structure of the summit will probably be found of 

 more importance as a distinction between these two groups, than the fact of 

 one or two more or less anal pieces being included as a portion of the walls 

 of the body. 



Genus POTERIOCRINUS, Miller, 1821. 



PoTEEiocEixrs (Zeaceinus) caebonaeius, M. k W. 



Poteriocrinus (Scarphiocrinus?) carbonarius, M. & W. Proceed. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., June, 1861, p. 140. 

 This species has the elongated and constricted second radial pieces, as well 

 as the gaping sutures between these and the first radials, characterizing Scar- 

 phiocrinus, but differs from the typical forms of that group in having a con- 

 cave base. In the latter, as well as some of its other characters, it agrees 

 with Zeacrinus, to which it seems to more properly belong. 



Genus ACTINOCRINUS, Miller, 1821. 



ACTIXOCEINUS PISTILLUS, M. & W. 



Body, exclusive of the proboscis, sub-pyriform ; the sides rising nearly ver- 

 tically from the base to the summit of the first radial pieces ; thence gradually 

 expanding to the secondary radials, after which they expand very rapidly, so 

 as to cause the brachial pieces to be directed horizontally outwards, or nearly 

 so, at about the middle of the body. Above the horizon of the arm bases, the 

 dome rises at first vertically, but very soon rounds inward, and rises with a 

 moderately convex slope to the base of the subcentral proboscis. Base trun- 

 cated and flat below, with a thick dilated margin notched at the suture, so as 

 to present a trilobate outline, as seen from beneath ; columnar facet a little 

 concave, and about one-third as wide as the base. Basal pieces twice as wide 

 as high, and hexagonal in form, the inferior margin being much longer than 

 any of the others. First radial pieces wider than long, smaller than the basal ; 

 three of them heptagonal, and two hexagonal. Second radial pieces very 

 small, twice as wide as high, and transversely oblong, or sometimes with one 

 of the superior lateral angles truncated by one of the interradials, so as to pre- 

 sent an irregular pentagonal form. 



Third radials a little larger than the second, pentagonal or hexagonal in 

 form, and supporting on each superior sloping side, a secondary radial piece, 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



each one of which is succeeded by another. Upon the superior sloping sides 

 of the latter, in the anterior and one of thi- lateral rays, commence the brachial 

 pieces, of which there are two ranges, upon the last of which commence the 

 free arms, thus giving origin to four arms in each of these rays. In the two 

 posterior rays, however, and one of the lateral, after the second bifurcation 

 on the last secondary radial, the latter supports on the outer sloping side a 

 tertiar}' radial, which gives origin to two brachial pieces, making five arms to 

 each of these rays, or twenty-three to the whole series. 



After the first bifurcation on the third radial pieces, all the succeeding 

 pieces of each ray are in di ect contact, so as to leave no spaces for iuteraxil- 

 lary plates : while the outer brachial pieces of each two contiguous rays con- 

 nect over the anal and interradial spaces, so as to nearly or quite isolate the 

 pieces filling those spaces, from the dome. 



First anal piece of the same form as the subradials, but rather smaller than 

 those of the anterior and antero-lateral rays ; surmounted by three smaller 

 hexagonal and heptagonal pieces in the second range, and three or four in the 

 third, making seven or eight altogether. Interradial pieces four, (rarely five, ) 

 those of he iufi-rior range being larger than the others. 



Surface without costse or visible granules, but roughened by the tubercular 

 character of the plates. The tubercle occupying each first radial and the first 

 anal, is larger than those on any of the other pieces of the side walls above ; 

 where they become smaller and less distinct with each succeeding range, un- 

 til they are nearly or quite obsolete a few ranges below the arms. Upon the 

 doaie, however, the tubercles are prominent and well defined. The proboscis 

 is unknown, but its base is stout, and rises rather abruptly from the dome, 

 being placed nearly its own breadth nearer the anal than the opposite side. 



The arms are also unknown. They evidently projected at first horizontally 

 outwards from the body, and their bases are so crowded as to form an almost 

 continuous rim around the body. 



Height from base to horizon of arm openings, about 0*(j4 inch ; height to 

 base of proboscis, 1'22 inches. Breadth of dilated margin of base, 0-46 inch ; 

 breadth of same just above, 0-38 ; breadth of body at top of first radials, 0-55 

 inch ; breadth of same at arm openings, 1'05 inches ; breadth of base of pro- 

 boscis, 0-43 inch. 



This species belongs to a peculiar group of Actinocrinus, as generally under- 

 stood in this country, of which A. pyriformis, bhumard, (Missouri 

 Report, pi. A, figs. 6a, b, ) may be regarded as the type. It also includes 

 our A. piitllUfonnis,* and A. claviyerus, Hull. These species ditter remark- 

 ably in form from typical species of Actinocrinus, such as A. triacontadactt/lu>i, 

 A. Icevis, lie, of the old world, in having the body very narrow and attenuate 

 below the arms, so as to form, as it were, a kind of handle to the upper half, 

 giving the whole, when the arms and pioboscis are removed, somewhat the 

 form and appearance of a pestle. They also differ from the old world species 

 regarded as typical forms of Actinocri/nis, in having the arms springing from 

 the body in a continuous series, instead of being in five groups. Should it be 

 considered desirable to separate this little group as a section of Actinocrinus, it 

 may be called Uperocrinus, from its resemblance, when the arms and proboscis 

 are removed, to a short-handled pestle. If Casseday's group Batocrinus, how- 

 ever, should be adopted as a distinct genus from Actinocrinus, this should be 

 ranged under it as a subgenus. 



Specifically', the form under consideration differs from -4. pyriformis in 

 having its first anal, first radial, and basal pieces, proportionally much 

 shorter, its base more flattened below, and more dilated around the margin ; 



* In indic.itiiig this form under the name A. rwlis, (PruC. Acad. Nat. Si:i , June, 18G1, p. VA\,i 

 we had over ooki^d th<- fict of that name having; been used by I'rcf. Hull fur anutbur species, in 

 the :Supplein>.'ut of the l.'wa Report, p. .33; hence we now propose to call it .1. pisliUi/ormis. 



1 805.] 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



as well as in the plates of the lower part of its body being much more dis- 

 tinctly tubercular, and in the greater number and more crowded arrangement 

 of its arms, which were evidently, at their bases, directed outwards, instead 

 of being, from their origin, directed obliquely upwards. 



From our A. pistilliformis, with « hich it agrees more nearly in some re- 

 spects, it differs, not only in having three more arms, but in the less abruptly 

 contracted form of its body immediately below the arms, as well as in having 

 from four to six interradial pieces to each space, instead of only two or three. 

 There were doubtless other more important differences that would be apparent 

 on comparing perfect specimens of each, judging from the different geological 

 positions of these two forms. 



Locality and position. — Burlington limestone, of subcarboniferous series, 

 Burlington, Iowa. 



Subgenus SPH^ROCRINUS, M. & W. 



AcTiNOCRiKUs (Sph^rockinus) coxcavus, M. & W. 



Actinocrimts (Amphoracrinus) conctvus, M. & VV. Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila., June, 1S61, p. 132. 



This curious little species may be regarded as the type of a section of the 

 group Actinocrinus, as usually understood, for which we would propose the 

 name Spharocrinus. Its peculiarities consist in the deep convexity of the 

 base, and the tumid and curved character of its first radial and first anal pie- 

 ces. These characters are so marked, that when placed with the under side 

 down, it rests directly upon a broad base formed of the first radial and first 

 anal pieces, which curve under to connect with the sunken basal pieces, and 

 upwards to form a part of the vertical walls of the cup. In the lateral position 

 of its anal and oral opening, it agrees viiih. Agarricocrinus &ndi Amphoracrinus ; 

 but it differs from the first, with which it also agrees in being concave below, 

 in the tumid and curved character of its first radial and anal pieces, as well as 

 in having the succeeding radials, anals, and interradials forming a vertical 

 wall, instead of extending out on a horizontal plane, while its arms are very 

 much weaker, and rise from around the summit, instead of from the horizon 

 of the lower part of the body. Its interradial and second range of anal pieces 

 are also much shorter. 



From Amphoracrinus, it not only differs in the concavity of its base and the 

 curved character of its first radial and first anal pieces, but in all the other 

 peculiarities of form, and the weakness and position of its arms. 



From Dulatocriiius, Lyon, {Cacabocrinus, Troost ?) with which it agrees in 

 form, the number of basal pieces, and the sunken condition of its base, as well 

 as in the incurved character of its first radials, it differs in having its first 

 anal piece down on the same range with the first radials, and connecting with 

 the base as in the typical forms of Actinocrimts, instead of being up on a range 

 with the first interradials. It also differs in its lateral anal and oral opening, 

 as well as in not having protuberant arm bases. 



MOLLUSCA. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



GOXIATITES COMPACTUS. 



Shell suMiscoid; umbilicus wide, or about twice 'he dorso-ventral diame- 

 ter of the last turn near the aperture, moderately deep, and showing about 

 half of each inner turn. Volutions four, near twice as wide as their diameter 

 in the direction of the plane of the shell, broadly rounded externally, and 

 each provided with a broad moderately deep concavity on the inner side, for 

 the reception of the next whorl within ; sides rather narrowly rounded near 

 the umbilicus, and rounding off more gradually to the periphery, the most 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



prominent part being within the middle. Aperture (as inferred from sections 

 of the whorls) transversely subreniform. Septa with a single pointed lobe on 

 each side ; dorsal lobe infundibuliform, the narrow portion being lanceolate ; 

 dorsal saddle broadly and very obtusely rounded ; superior lateral lobe from 

 one-fourth to one-third larger than the dorsal, and having much the same 

 shape, excepting that it is proportionally wider ; inferior lateral lobe consisting 

 merely of a broad rounded sinuosity. (Surface unknown.) 



Should Montfort's name A<janides be retained for this genus, the name of 

 this species would become Ayanides compactus. 



Greatest diameter 2*50 inches ; convexity (or breadth of aperture) 1'33 inch ; 

 breadth of umbilicus, about 1"12 inch. 



Loculity and position. — Coal Measures. Macoupin Co., 111. 



Note in regard to the name "Cincixnati Group," used in the foregoing paper. 



As it is now acknowledgeil that the rocks along the Hudson river valley, to 

 which the name Hudson River Group had been applied, belong, as long 

 maintained by Dr. Emmons, to a different horizon from the so-called Hudson 

 River rocks of western New York, and the states farther westward, it seems to 

 be an awkward misnomer to continue to apply the name Hudson River Group 

 to these western deposits. Hence it is certainly desirable that this group 

 should receive some appropriate and generally applicable name. Its subdi- 

 visions, it is true, have already received various lithological names, such as 

 " Utica Slate," " Frankfort 81ate, " "Lorraine Shale," &c. ; but as each of 

 these names will probably be always directly associated, in the minds of 

 geologists, with the particular subdivision to which it was originally applied, 

 while neither of them is applicable to the lithological characters of the whole 

 series, we cannot, without creating confusion, so extend its signification. It 

 has recently been proposed to desi^'nate this series as the " Green and Blue 

 Shales and Limestones;" this, however, is not a name, but descriptive 

 phrase, and has the disadvantage of being based upon lithological characters 

 not everywhere characteristic of these beds. 



In view of all the facts, we have concluded to propose the name Cincinnati 

 Group — (which will be adopted in the forthcoming reports of the Illinois Geo- 

 logical Survey) — for this series. This name possesses the advantage of being 

 equally applicable to rocks of any color or composition, while it carries the 

 mind to a well-known locality, where the formation referred to is extensively 

 developed, and its fossils so abundant that they have been thence widely 

 distributed, both in this country and Europe. Consequently, geologists will 

 everywhere at once understand to what particular horizon of the Lower Silu- 

 rian this name refers. 



Descriptions of New Crinoidea, &c., from the Carboniferous Books of Illinois 

 and some of the adjoining States. 



BY F. B. MEEK AND A. H. WORTHEN. 



Genus POTERIOCRIXUS, Miller, 1821. 



POTERIOCRINCS InDIANENSIS, M. & W. 



Body rather deeply ciip-«haped or truncate obconic. Base basin-shaped, 

 comparatively rather broadly truncated below by the columnar f^icet. Basal 

 pieces well developed, pt-ntagonHl, tibout one-third wider than high. Sub- 

 ra(iials large, three petiiagonal, and two on the anal side hexagonal, there being 

 no dcfiiied'^angle at the middle of the under side of any of these plate.-;. First 

 radial pieces about half as large as the subradials, wider than long, rounded 

 on the outside, and nearly pentagonal, or with one or both of the superior 



i8G5.] 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



lateral angles slightly truncated, so as to give an obscurely hexagonal or hep- 

 tagonal outline ; all broadly truncated nearly their entire breadtti above, and 

 one on the immediate right of the anal series, resting in part directly upon the 

 upper truncated side of one of the subradials, and elevated almost its entire 

 length above the horizon of those of the other rays. In this latter ray, and 

 the one on the immediate left of the anal series, the second piece is quadran- 

 gular, and wider than long, while the third is pentagonal, and supports the 

 first division of the arms on its superior sloping sides. These divisions in the 

 ray on the right are simple, rounded, and each composed of a single series of 

 somewhat wedge-shaped pieces; while the left branch of the one on the left 

 of the anal series, bifurcates again on the second piece, making three arms in 

 this ray, which are constructed like those already described, and continue 

 simple as far as they can be traced. In the only other ray preserved in the 

 specimen, the bifurcation takes place on the second radial, beyond which the 

 arms continue simple. 



First anal piece nearly as large as one of the first radials, hexagonal, and 

 resting between the upper sloping sides of two of the subradials, partly under 

 the first radial on the right, while it connects on the left with the tecond anal, 

 and supports a third on its truncated upper side. Second anal piece rather 

 large, longer than wide, hexagonal, and resting upon the superior truncated 

 side of one of the subradials. Third anal piece smaller than the others, hexa- 

 gonal, and surmounted by several other hexagonal pieces in direct succession, 

 belonging to the proboscis. 



Surface apparently smooth. Columnar facet rather large and marked with 

 distinct radiating striae around the margins. 



Length of body to summit of first radials, about 0-48, excepting in the ray 

 on the immediate left of the anal series, where it is 0-58 inch; breadth about 

 0-56 inch. Breadth of columnar facet, 0-26 inch. Usual diameter of the arms 

 after the bifurcations, 012 inch. 



Locality and position. — Crawfordsville, Indiana. Keokuk division of the 

 Subcarboniferous series. 



POTERIOCRINOS (SCAPHIOCRINUS) TENDIDACTYLUS, M. & W. 



Body in comparison with the length of the arms small, inversely campanu- 

 late below the summit of the first radial pieces ; being narrowly rounded below 

 and rather expanded above, where the breadth is nearly twice the height. 

 Base less than half as wide as high, basin-shaped, the sides rounding under to 

 the columnar facet, which is of medium size and a little concave. Basal 

 pieces well developed, pentagonal, and wider than long. Subradial pieces 

 twice or three times as large as the basal ; those on the anterior side (the only 

 ones seen) hexagonal. First radials wider but shorter than the subradials ; 

 transversely truncated about three-fourths their entire breadth above, for the 

 reception of the succeeding radial pieces : those on the anterior side curving a 

 little outwards and having an irregular pentagonal outline, the superior lateral 

 angles being more or less truncated, or rounding inwards. Second radials 

 pentagonal, nearly as long as wide, separated by interradial pieces of nearly 

 their own breadth, rounded and constricted around the middle, with the central 

 superior angle prominent, and the sloping margins on each side of it supporting 

 the arms. 



Anal pieces unknown. Arms long, slender, and in two of the anterior rays 

 known to bifurcate on the tenth piece above the third primary radials, after 

 which they are seen to be extended to a considerable length, without showing 

 distinctly another division, though there is some appearance of such bifurca- 

 tion in one of the branches, on the twentieth piece. Immediately after the 

 division of the rays on the third primary radials, the arms are rounded and 

 composed of wedge-shaped pieces, wider than long, and alternately thicker 

 and thinner on opposite sides, each one supporting at its larger end a stout 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



tentacle. Above the bifurcation on the tenth piece, the divisions are very 

 long, slender, somewhat angular on the outer side, and still composed of a 

 single series of wedge-shaped pieces, each one of which is strongly protuberant 

 laterally, for the reception of a tentacle at its larger end, — the protuberances 

 and the sinuosities between giving the divisions of the arms a zigzag appear- 

 ance, somewhat like those of Platycrinus nodobrachiatus, Hall.* 



Surface apparently smooth, or only finely granulose. Suture not impressed 

 between the plates of the body, but somewhat gaping between the first and 

 second radials. 



Height of body to top of first radials, 0-41 inch ; breadth, 0-60 inch. Length 

 of arms to first bifurcation, 0-70 inch ; entire length nearly 3 inches. 



This species seems to be related to several of those described by Prof. Hall 

 from the same locality and position, but on comparison will be found not to 

 agree in all its characters with the description of any of them. From his S. 

 spinobrachiatus it evidently differs in not having the plates of the body convex 

 nor the sutures indented at their angles, as well as in not having the arms 

 subspinous, and the whole body is less broadly cup-shaped. 



From S. Whitei, Hall, it differs in not having the " surface of cup marked by 

 deeply irtpressed pits '' at the junction of the sides of the subradials, and 

 between the first radial pieces : and from S. Halli, Hall, it differs in not having 

 the arms simple after the first division on the second primary radial, as well 

 as in some of the details of their divisions. 



Locality and position. — Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone of Sub- 

 carboniferous series. 



POTEEIOCRINUS (SOAPHIOCRINDS) BaYENSIS, M. & W. 



Body of medium size, rather depressed obconic below the top of the first 

 radials. Base about twice as wide as high, expanding directly from the head 

 of the column on a line with the subradial and first radial pieces. Basal pieces 

 moderately developed, wider than long, pentagonal, and showing the whole 

 surface of each in a side view. Subradials about three times as large as the 

 basal, somewhat wider than long, three hexagonal, and two on the anal side 

 apparently heptagonal, the angle on the middle of the under side of all being 

 very obtuse. First radial pieces wider and a little shorter than the subra- 

 dials, all pentagonal, apparently transversely truncated their entire breadth 

 above. Second radials of nearly the same size as the first, and like them pen- 

 tagonal, but having the middle angle above and more salient, while the two 

 superior sloping sides each supports an arm, thus giving origin to two arms to 

 each ray, or ten to the entire series ; all of which are nearly in contact all 

 around below, excepting on the anal side. 



First anal piece smaller than the subradials, hexagonal in form, and resting 

 between the upper sloping sides of two of the subradials, with its upper right 

 edge supporting one side of one of the first radials, and its left connecting 

 apparently with, a second anal piece, the form of which cannot be made out in 

 our specimen. In the third range, one piece evidently rested upon the upper 

 truncated edge of the first anal piece, but its form and connection with the 

 other pieces on the left have not been determined. 



Arms long, and, as far as can be determined, apparently simple after the first 

 division of each ray on the second radial piece ; each composed of a single 

 series of wedge-shaped pieces, alternately longer and shorter on opposite sides, 

 but not protuberant on either side ; those near the lower part about as long on 

 the longer side as their breadth. Tentacles numerous, rather stout, and com- 

 posed of joints three or four times as long as wide, and not swollen or dilated 

 at the ends. 



Column of moderate thickness near the base, where it is round and com- 



*Iowa Report, p. 642. 



1865.] 11 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



posed of alternately thicker and thinner pieces. Surface apparently smooth 

 Sutures slightly furrowed excepting those between the first and second radial 

 pieces, which are distinctly gaping when the arms are folded together. 



Height of body to the top of the tirst radial pieces, 025 inch ; breadth of do. 

 0-48 inch. Length of arms above the second radials, 1-90 inches or more; 

 diameter of column at its connection with the base, 0-13 inch. 



This species seems to be closely related to S. decahrachiatus, Hall, (Iowa 

 Report, p. 679, pi. xxv. fig. 1,) but is larger and more robust, and its second 

 radial pieces differ materially in form, being nearly or quite twice as wide as 

 long, while in S. decahrachiatus they are " nearly once and a half as long as 

 wide." Its basal pieces are also proportionally about twice as large. Other 

 diflerences would doubtless be apparent, if we had the means of comparing all 

 the corresponding parts of each with those of the other. 



Locality and position. — Bay City, Pope Co., Illinois. Chester division of the 

 Subcarboniferous limestone series. 



POTERIOCRINCS (SCAPHIOCRINFS)? NoRWOODI, M. & W. 



Body small, depressed basin-shaped, rounded and concave below, breadth 

 three times as great as the height to summit of first radial pieces. Basal pieces 

 very small, deeply impressed within the concavity of the under side, and almost 

 entirely hidden by the column. Subradial pieces comparatively well developed, 

 curving under to connect with the concave base ; three pentagonal, (exclusive 

 of the scarcely-defined angle at the middle below,) and two on the anal side 

 hexagonal. First radial pieces short, and about twice as wide as high, pen- 

 tagonal, with the upper side transversely truncated its entire breadth. Second 

 radials as wide as the first, and twice as long, pentagonal, and at the middle 

 above acutely angular. Arms after the first division on the second radial 

 bifurcating at least once more, on the third or fourth piece, the joints beyond 

 being slightly longer than wide, and supporting alternately on opposite sides 

 of the arms strong, long-jointed, rather remotely-separated tentacles. FirsJ 

 anal piece nearly as large as one of the subradialS; pentagonal, and resting 

 between the upper sloping sides of two of the subradials, with its right superior 

 sloping side supporting the left under side of a first radial, and its left upper 

 side a third anal piece, while its short left vertical side connects with the 

 second anal piece. Second anal about the size of the first, and resting upon 

 the short upper truncated side of one of the subradials, with its left side con- 

 necting with one of the first radials, and its right with another anal piece. 

 Above these several other anal pieces are seen to rise so as to form apparently 

 a narrow, rounded, lateral proboscis, on a range with the arms, which it ap- 

 pears to scarcely exceed in thickness. Summit and column unknown. 



Surface nearly or quite smooth, excepting an angular ridge or carina, which 

 extends up each second radial its entire length. Sutures distinct and indented 

 a little at the connections of the corners of the first radials and the subradial 

 pieces ; that between the first and second anal pieces gaping. 



Height to summit of first radial pieces, 0-05 inch; breadth, 0-15 inch. 



This little species presents rather a combination of characters belonging to 

 several groups. In the number and arrangement of its aiial pieces forming 

 a part of the walls, as well as in the general structure of its body, it agrees 

 with Poteriocrinus, and its depressed form and round deeply-concave underside 

 are characters belonging to the group Zeacrinus, while the form of its arms, 

 and the distinctly gaping character of the sutures between its first and second 

 radial pieces, suggest relations to Scaphiocrinus. Its apparently distinctly 

 lateral, slender, rounded proboscis, however, would remove it entirely from 

 the genus Poteriocrinus to Cyathocrinus. Indeed if we could be sure the 

 latter character is real, and not produced by the accidental folding together 

 into a cylindrical form of merely a part of the external wall of the large trunk 

 BO characteristic of the genus Poteriocrinus, we would not hesitate to call 



[Aug- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



it Cyathocrinus Norwoodi, since the absence of the large trunk-like summit, 

 and the presence of a slender lateral proboscis, are characters probably of more 

 importance, than the presence of a few more anal pieces and the differences in 

 the form of the body. 



Named in honor of Prof. J. G. Norwood, of the University of Missouri. 



Locality and position. — Hancock Go., Illinois. St. Louis division of the Sub- 

 carboniferous series. 



POTERIOCRINDS (ScAPHIOCRINns) SDBTUMIDUS, M. & W. 



Body basin-shaped below the summit of the first radial pieces, three times as 

 wide as high, composed of thick tumid plates. Basal plates very small, deeply 

 impressed, and hidden by the column. Subradials comparatively large, very 

 convex, and extending out nearly horizontally, but curving upward at their 

 outer extremities; about as long as wide, three of them subhexagonal, and two 

 subheptagonal, the angle at the basal or inner side being nearly obsolete. First 

 radials convex, about twice as large as the subradials, half as high as wide 

 regularly pentagonal, and all nearly evenly trunciited above, their emire breadth. 

 Anal plates like the others, tumid; first one one half to one-third as lar^e as 

 the subradials, irregularly pentagonal, and resting obliquely beneath one side 

 of a first radial, between the upper sloping sides of two subradials, while its 

 left and upper side connect with tbe other anals. Second anal piece resting 

 upon the truncated upper side of one of the subradials, and connecting on the 

 left with a first radial, above which it projects nearly half its length. Third 

 anal piece hexagonal, supported upon a short truncated upper side of the first, 

 anal, and connecting on the left with the second, and on the right with a first 

 radial, above which it projects a little. 



Second radials and parts above unknown. Surface smooth ; sutures stronglv 

 defined, in consequence of the tumid character of the body plates. 



Height of body to summit of first radial pieces. 0-27 inch; breadth of do. 

 0-73 inch; breadth of base, 0-13 inch. 



Until specimens of this species can be examined, showing tbe structure of the 

 parts yet unknown, it will be difficult to determine whether its name should 

 not be more properly Zeacrinus subtumidus, or whether it may not belong to 

 another group, of which Graphiocrinus li-brachiaiis, of Lyon, is the type,* 



This latter form differs widely, not only from Foteriocrinus proper, but from 

 Soaphiocrinus, Zeacrinus, and also from Graphiocrinus, in having its arms com- 

 posed each of a double series of interlocking pieces, as well as in its unusually 

 massive tumid plates and general physiognomy. In some families of the Cri- 

 noidea, such for instance as the Platycrinus group, a difference like this in the 

 structure of the arms may be of less importance, but in that including Foterio- 

 crinus and the allied genera, we believe it to be of more significance, if not 

 indeed of generic value, especially when accompanied by the other differences 

 of habit presented in this instance. Hence we would propose fur this group 

 the name Eupachycrinus, with Eupachycrinus 14 brachialis =^ (^Graphiocrinus 14- 

 brachialis, Lyon) as the type. It will also doubtless inclad^ E. penta/obus =^ 

 [Cyathocrinus? pentalobus, Hall,) and possibly also Scaphiocrimis orbicularis. Hall. 



Should our species here under consideration prove to have its arms con- 

 structed of a double series of pieces, we should unhesitatingly call it Eupachy- 

 crinus subtumidus, since in the massive tumid character of its body pieces, smalt 

 sunken base, and general form and appearance, it agrees, so far as its parts are 

 known, essentially with the type of that group. Specifically, however, it will 

 be readily distinguished by its subradial pieces being proportionally smaller 

 and so much less protuberant as to give a different outline to the under side 

 of the body, as seen in a side view. It also differs entirely in the form and 

 arrangement of its anal pieces. 



Locality and position. — Bay Gity, Pope Co., Illinois. Chester division of the 

 Subcarboniferous series. 



•See Kentucky Geological Report, vol. iii. p. 477, pi. i. figs. "2 and 2a. 



1865.] 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Genus CYATHOCRINUS, Miller, 1821. 



Cyathocrinus arboreds, M. & W. 



Body rather under medium size, conoidal-semiovate below the top of the 

 first radial ])ieces, about as wide as high. Basal pieces well developed, form- 

 ing a low basin-shaped cup ; all pentagonal, and about as long as wide, the 

 greatest breadth being slightly above the middle. Subradial pieces three or 

 four times as large as the basal, about as long as wide, usually arcuate, or 

 a little concave on the outside along the lateral margins — four hexagonal and 

 one heptagonal. First radial pieces of near the same size as the subradials, 

 ai.d presenting a more or less nearly pentagonal outline ; facet for the recep- 

 tion of the second radials nearly equalling one-third the breadth of the 5rst 

 radial pieces, slightly protuberant, iind sloping outwards. Succeeding radials 

 small, rounded on the outside, and varying from two to five in the diflferent 

 rays ; there being but two in one of the posterior rays and five in the other, 

 while the anterior ray has four, one of the antero-lateral three, and the other 

 four, — all excepting the last or axillary piece being quadrangular. 



After the first division into two arms on the fourth primary radial piece, (at 

 least in one of the antero-lateral rays,) another division immediately takes 

 plaf'e on the first piece of each principal branch, and of the four brancblets 

 thus formed, the inner two ascend directly upwards, and each bifurcates again 

 on the second piece, and rbe subdivisions each again on the third piece; while 

 the two main lateral brancblets spread out on either side, each giving off above 

 two or more subordinate brancblets, the first of which is seen to bifurcate at 

 least once. The whole of the divisions and subdivisions being thus spread out 

 so as to resemble the trained limbs of a tree spread upon a wall. The divisions 

 of the other rays cannot be traced out in the specimen examined, in the same 

 detail, but some of them appear to divide much in the same way, and others 

 somewhat diflerently. 



All the arms and their divisions aie founded, and the smaller divisions com- 

 posed of joints that are longer than wide, while no tentacles have been observed 

 connected with any of them. 



Th" first anal piece is quadrangular, a little longer than one of the basal 

 pieces, and rests directlj' upon the superior truncated side of one of the sub- 

 radials, while it connects on each side with one of the large first radial pieces, 

 above which it does not project. Other anal pieces unknown. 



The sutures are slightly impressed, and the surface nearly smooth, or only 

 obscurely granulose. The column and summit are unknown. 



Height to summit of first jadial pieces, 0-66 inch, on the anal side, and 0*55 

 inch OQ the other; breadth at top of first radial pieces, 0-53 inch ; breadth of 

 second and succeeding primary radial pieces, 015 inch. 



Locality and position. — CrawfordsTille, Indiana. Keokuk division of Sub- 

 carboniferous series. 



Genus PLATYCRINUS, Miller, 1821. 



As first proposed by Miller, this genus was badly defined, and it is manifest 

 that its author himself, had no very clear ideas of its limits, since he also in- 

 cluded in it species of Fenlremites, Saj-, Dichocrinus, Munster, and of his own 

 genus Actinocrinus. Later writers, however, have restricted it within far more 

 natural limits, and, as now generally understood, Miller's first species, P. Icevis, 

 seems to be regarded as the typical form of the genus. In this and the closely 

 allied species, the body is more or less hemispherical below the arms, while 

 the dome terminates above in a long, generally slender, central or subcentral 

 proboscis, closed at the summit, but apparently pierced by a small aperture on 

 one side near the upper extremity. In these typical forms the arms bifurcate 

 once or oftener near the body, beyond which they are simple, and composed 

 at first, of a single series of wedge-shape pieces, passing more or less gradually 



fAug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



into a double series of small interlocking pieces supporting numerous tenta- 

 cles. Other species, however, generally included in the genus, have no pro- 

 boscis, but a simple aperture in the summit, located either laterally, or nearly 

 centrally ; while some of these have the arms composed of a double series of 

 interlocking pieces, and others of a single series of wedge-shaped pieces,* 

 neither of these peculiarities in the structure of the arms being always especial- 

 ly coincident with apparently any one of the other characters mentioned. 



As defined by Koninck and Le Hon-}-, in accordance with their improved 

 nomenclature of the parts, the structural formula of this group is as follows : — 



Basal pieces, 3 ; forming a wide cup. 



Radials, 2 ; one large and one small, X 5-t 



Anals, 1 large, or 3 small. 



Interradials, 1, X 4. 



Arms, 10, 20, 25, 30 or 35, according to the species. 



From the foregoing remarks, it will be seen, that the groupincluding species 

 agreeing with the above formula, may be divided, as (in part) suggested by 

 the Messrs. Austin,^ into the following four sections: — 



1. Flatycrinus, (tyi>\ca.]). — With the summit terminating in a more or less 

 elongated, central, or subcentral proboscis, bearing the opening on one side 

 near the tspper extremity. 



Type. P. Isevis, Miller. Also includes P. spinosus, and F. ZQ-dactylus, Austin ; 

 P. Miillerimius, Koninck; and P. gramdatus^ Miller. 



2. Centrocrinus, Austin. — Opening of summit nearly or quite central, but 

 not elevated upon a proboscis. 



Type. P. yCentrocr .'] gigas, Gilbertson. 



3. Cupellxocrinus, Troost. — Differs from the last only in having its second 

 radial pieces merely rudimentary, or so small as to allow the first brachials to 

 rest partly upon the first radials. 



Type. P. Tennessecnsis, Roemer. 



4. rieurocrinus, Austin. — Differs from Centrocrinus only in having the open- 

 ing of the summit lateral, and nearly or quits on a line with the arm bases 



Examples. — P. \_Pleurocr.'] mucro7iaius, Austin; P. [Pleurocr.l tuberculaius, 

 Miller; P. \^Pleitrocr ."] iuberosus,a,n(iP. [^Pleurocr.'] siibs/)mosus,}idi\l; P. [Pleii- 

 rocr.] asper, Meek & Worthen, &c., &c. 



In regard to the value and itnportance of the characters distinguishing these 

 sections. Palaeontologists will probably always differ. Hitherto these differ- 

 ences have scarcely been noticed, even by the most respectable authorities, 

 excepting as one of the means of distinguishing species. From all analogy, 

 however, it seems reasonable to suppose that they were accompanied by cor- 

 responding modifications in the structure of the softer parts of the animal. It 

 will also be observed, that they corretipond, in part, almost exactly to the charac- 

 ters distinguishing section's of the allied Actinocrinus group. For instance the 

 species embraced in the section Pleurocrinus, differ from the typical forms of 

 Platycrinus, almost precisely as Agaricocrinus and Amphoracrinus do from the 



*P. nodohrachialus, Hall, is an American example with the arms composed of a single series of 

 pieces. We allude here to a species described under that name by Prof. JIall, in the Iowa Iteport, 

 p. 542, 1858, and not to another form described by him under the same name, in his " De.scriptions 

 of New Species of Crinoidea. Ac." Albany, Feb. 25, 1851, p. 17. The inconvenience and confusion 

 liable to result from the use of the same specific name for two forms of the same genus, maliea 

 It necessary that another name should be applied to one of these species ; hence we would ])roposi- 

 to call that described at the latter date, P. jnraspe.r. 



fRecher.hes Sur les Crinoides du Terrain Carbonifere de Le Belgique, p. 155, 1854. 



jit is worthy of note that although Koninck and Le Hon give two rudiais (one large and one 

 small) as the number, that their figure 1 a, pi. vi. of 1'. Iwvis, Jliller. shows clearly 3 radials, 

 one large and two small. As others figure and describe it as having only two, this may tie only 

 an accidental variety. It will be seen, however, that our P. iMrvrilua, described on another page 

 of this paper, has 3 radials, one large and two small. Still two seems to bo the normal number 

 in this genus. 



J Monograph ef Recent and Fossil Crinoidea, p. 0. 



1865^] 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



typical species oi Actinocrinus. Hence, if we admit these latter groups, either 

 as genera or subgenera, consistency at least, if not indeed a philosophical system 

 of classification, would require that equal prominence should be given to these 

 corresponding sections of the Platycrmus group. Whatever theoretical views 

 may be entertained on this subject, however, the practical difficulty of ascer- 

 taining the nature of the summit, and the position of the aperture in palaeozoic 

 crinoids, will prevent tbe general distribution of the species into groups, upon 

 characters of this kind, unless a more profound study of great collections of 

 the remains of these animals, may yet bring to light some coincident, but 

 more easily observed characters, in the structure of the body, or other parts. 



Platycrincs Niotensis, M. and W. 



Body below the summit of the first radial pieces cup-shaped, wider than 

 high ; sides slightly ventricose above the base. Base basin-shaped, several 

 times as wide as high, moderately expanding, rather broadly truncated below, 

 lt3 lower margins projecting slightly downwards around the end of tbe column, 

 and provided with three very small projections, one at the lower extremity of 

 each of i's sutures. First radial plates large, higher than wide, widening 

 sli"-htlj from below upwards, subquadrangular or with the superior lateral 

 angles a little truncated by the iuterradial pieces ; each with a concave facet 

 for the reception of the second radials, equalling about half its breadth above, 

 and excavated near one fourth its length on the outer side, below the upper 

 margin. Second radial pieces trigonal, very small, or scarcely filling the facet 

 or excivation in the upper side of the first radials ; rounded below, with each 

 superior sloping side supporting secondary radials, on the second of which 

 another bifurcation takes place, making four arms to each ray. 



Arms after the second division described above, simple, and at first composed 

 each of a single series of wedge-shaped plates, but soon passing into a double 

 series of small interlocking pieces, supporting on each side of the arms closely 

 arranged series of long-jointed tentacles. 



Column near the base compressed and tortuous, being composed of alter- 

 nately thicker and thinner elliptic pieces, with a very minute central per- 

 foration. 



Surface somewhat granulose ; sutures not grooved, nor distinctly apparent ; 

 those between the basal pieces indicated by a faint linear ridge. 



Height to summit of first radials, 030 inch ; breadth about 0-40 inch. 

 Greaier diameter of column at base of body, 12 inch ; smaller do. 0-09, 

 Breadth of one of the arms, 006 inch; length of do. apparently an inch or 

 more. 



In its general appearance, this species is not unlike P. sarce of Hall, (Iowa 

 Report, p. 673, pi. 18, fig. 4), though it is much smaller, has a proportionally 

 much shoiter base, and also differs in having but four, instead of six arms to 

 each ray. 



Locality and position. — Niota, Hancock County, Illinois. Keokuk division 

 of Subcarboniferous Limestone. 



Platycrinus HEMisPHiERicus, M. and W. 



Body rather above medium size, hemispherical, being rounded below, and 

 about twice as wide as high ; base broai basin-shaped, and forming about 

 one third the entire height of the cup, with a pentagonal outline as seen from 

 below; columnar facet between one-third, and one-fourth the diameter of the 

 base, and subelliptical in outline. First radial pieces larger than the basal, 

 wider than high, nearly quadrangular, and widening moderately from below 

 upwards; facet for the reception of the second radial one third as wide as the 

 summit and extending down about one fourth the length of the plates, — con- 

 cave and sloping outwards, with a deep notch within. Second radial pieces 

 very small, but filling the cavity in each of the first radials, from which they 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 163 



extend out nearly horizontally — pentagonal in outline, and each supporting on 

 its superior lateral sloping margins the first divisions of the arms, which are 

 comparatively small and bifurcate again on the second piece ; beyond this the 

 two outer divisions remain simple, but the two inner divide again on the second 

 piece, making six arras to each ray, oc thirty to the entire series. Arms after 

 the last divisions long, slender, cylindrical, and composed at first of a simple 

 series of quadrangular pieces, but passing gradually upwards into interlocking 

 triangular pieces, and still farther up forming a double series of small alterna- 

 ting cuneiform pieces, supporting closely arranged, long-joinled tentacles. 

 Anal, interradial, and vault pieces unknown. Sutures, excepting between the 

 basal pieces, distinctly, but not widely or deeply channeled. 



Surface ornamented with rather small, but well defined, prominent nodes. 

 On the base, tUese nodes are arranged in ten rows, five of which radiate 

 from the columnar facet, one to each of the corners ; while those between each 

 of these form intermediate radiating rows, consisting at first of a single range, 

 but becoming a double or triple range near the margin, when the three some- 

 times coalesce laterally. On the first radial pieces two rows pass from just 

 beneath the facet for the reception of the second radials, to each of the inferior 

 lateral angles, while between these there is, at first, a single node, but farther 

 down two or three rows, consisting of nodes which show a disposition to 

 elongate, or coalesce laterally, so as to form little transverse ridges. Above, 

 there is also a row extending horizontally to each superior lateral angle, with 

 a few less regularly arranged nodes on the sides below these. A single trans- 

 versely elongated node sometimes also occurs on the little radials, and one 

 less distinctly defined also sometimes on each of the pieces between this and 

 the next bifurcation. 



Breadth of body at summit of first radial pieces, 1-07 inches ; height of do. 

 0-60 inch ; breadth of base 0-67 inch; breadth of second radial pieces at the 

 summit, 0-54 inch ; do. of second radials, 0-19 inch. 



From the description, it will be seen this species is rather closely related 

 to P. granulatus of Miller, which it nearly resembles in form and general ap- 

 pearance. It is a larger and more robust species, however, and differs, not 

 only in the arrangement of the pustules on the base into distinct radiating, 

 rows, but according to Austin's figures and description (Monogr., Recent and 

 fossil Criaoidea, p. 33, pi. 3, f. 2,) in having but six instead of seven arms to 

 each ray, as well as in having the arms above the middle composed of a double 

 series of small wedge-shaped pieces, instead of consisting of a single series 

 throughout. From its analogy to P. granulatus, of Miller, it will probably be 

 found to possess, like that species, a long subcentral proboscis. 



Locality and position. — Crawfordsville, Indiana. Keokuk division of Sub- 

 carboniferous Series. 



Platycrinus parvulus, M. and W. 



Body very small, short subcylindrical, or deeply cup-shaped. Base depressed 

 basin-shaped, or several times as wide as high, columnar facet about one third 

 as wide as the base, with a small marginal rim. First radial plates nearly ob- 

 long, being longer than wide, with nearly parallel sides; some of them with 

 two obscure linear ridges extending from the middle of the upper side, and 

 slightly diverging to the base; each moderately concave above for the recep- 

 tion of the next range of pieces. Second radial pieces very minute, about 

 twice as wide as long, but not equalling the breadth of the slight concavity in 

 the upper side of the first radials. Third radial pieces, slightly wider than the 

 second, and about of the same length, pentagonal, and each supporting an arm 

 on each superior sloping side. Arms each dividing on the second piece be- 

 yond which they are simple, at least for four or five pieces above, and com- 

 posed of a single series of quadrangular pieces, about as long as wide, ex- 

 cepting the first, which is near twice as long as wide. Tentacles apparently 



1865.] 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



comparatively stout. Column near the base nearly or quite round, and com- 

 posed of very thin pieces. Surface smooth. 



Length of body to summit of first radial pieces 0-12 inch ; breadth of do. 

 0-12 inch. Length of arm about 0-30 inch; thickness of column, 0-02 inch. 



This very small species, differs remarkably from all the others with which 

 we are acquainted, resembling it in other respects, not only in its small size, 

 but in having two minute radial pieces in each ray, above the larger first radial 

 piece, making three radials to each ray. 



Locality and position. — Pope County, Illinois. Chester division of Subcarbo- 

 niferous Series. 



Genus ACTLVOCRINUS, Miller, 1821. 

 Subgenus ALLOPROSALLOCRIN^US, Lyon & Casseday, 1860. 

 AcTiNocRiNcs (Alloprosallocrinus) euconus, M. & W. 

 Body having the form of the subgenus remarkably well developed, being 

 perfectly flat or slightly concave below the arm bases, and regularly conical 

 above, where it terminates in a rather slender central proboscis. Base very 

 small, with a round, deep, conical depression for the reception of the column, 

 occupying almost its entire area, and surrounded by a narrow, slightly pro- 

 jecting rine-like margin. Radial, interradial, anal and first brachial pieces, 

 all extending out horizontally from the base. First radial pieces hexagonal 

 and about twice as wide as long. Second radials transversely oblong, and 

 rather smaller than the first. Third radials a little larger than the second, 

 pentagonal or hexagonal in form, and each supporting on its superior (more 

 properly outer) sloping sides two slightly larger secondary radials, each of 

 which is succeeded by another, and the latter each by two brachial pieces, 

 making four arms to each of two rays seen, or twenty to the entire series, if 

 the others have the same number. First interradial pieces larger than any of 

 the radials, heptagonal or octagonal, and supporting two smaller pieces in the 

 next range, beyond which are two others, making altogether five pieces in the 

 only interradial area we have been able to make out clearly. Anal pieces un- 

 known . 



Vault regularly conical, with slightly convex slopes, and armed around the 

 middle with two or three rows of irregularly disposed, short, conical spines, 

 or spine-like tubercles. Proboscis slender and apparently not inclined to 

 either side. 



Surface smooth, or indistinctly granulose ; sutures very close fitting and 

 diflicult to see. Arm bases forming an almost continuous series (being but 

 very slightly interrupted at the anal and interradial spaces) around the base 

 of the abruptly truncated conical body. Column unknown. 



Height to base of proboscis, about 0.70 inch; breadth, 1.13 inches. 

 This species is rem.arkable for its conical form, being almost perfectly flat, or 

 a little concave below the horizon of the arm bases, and rising with slightly 

 convex slopes above, to the base of the proboscis. Hence the whole of the 

 cavity occupied by the viscera of the animal corresponds to the dome only of 

 species of the usual form of Aetinocrinus. For the group to which it belongs, 

 Messrs. Lyon & Casseday proposed the name Alloprosallocrinus in 1860, and 

 Dr. Troost had proposed for it the name Conocrinus, in a list published without 

 a description in 1850. 



Since the above was in type, a more careful comparison with Lyon & Casse- 

 day's description of their A. conicus leads us to suspect that our crinoid mai/ 

 be identical with their species. Still we do not feel satisfied that this is the 

 case, particularly as they describe the columnar facet as involving the basal 

 and part of the surrounding range of pieces ; while it is very small in our 

 crinoid, not even covering the small basal pieces. In addition to this, our 

 specimens seem to show the bases of a more numerous series of arms. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Locality and position. — Six miles southeast of Anna, Union Co., Illinois ; from 

 the St. Louis division of the Subcarboniferous series. Collected by Mr. Henry 

 Engelmann. 



PeNTREMITES (GrANATOCRINUS ?) GRANULOSUS, M. & W. 



Body small, subglobosus, base deeply concave, particularly in the middle, 

 and not visible in a side view. Radial plates a little longer than wide, about 

 two-thirds as long as the entire body, and tapering from above to the base, 

 each divided by the narrow pseudo-ambulacral areas, down almost to the very 

 base ; lateral margins moderately prominent. Interradial pieces subtrigonal, 

 or with a fourth obscure angle in the middle below; longer than wide, and 

 each narrowing from below to the summit, where they are perforated by two 

 minute openings. Anal piece of the same size and form as the interradial, 

 with its opening circular, and comparatively large, its outer margin being pro- 

 tected by a small, rather pointed node. Pseudo-ambulacral areas nnrrow, or 

 sublinear, rather impressed, and each with a distinct longitudinal, linear, 

 mesial furrow ; pore pieces from twenty-five to thirty. Surface marked by 

 comparatively distinct granules, most strongly defined on the interradial and 

 anal pieces, where they sometimes show a tendency to arrange themselves in 

 transverse lines parallel to the lower margin. 



Height of body, 0-22 inch; breadth of do. 0-23 inch. Breadth of pseudo- 

 ambulacral areas, 0-05 inch. 



Not having at hand a specimen or figure of the type of Troost's Granatocrinus, 

 we are not quite sure this form belongs to that group, though we have no 

 doubt in regard to the propriety of separating such species from the typical 

 forms of Pc7itremi(es. Our species has somewhat the general form and appear- 

 ance of P. Roemeri of Shumard, (Missouri Report, pi. b, figs. 2a, 2b, 2c and 2d,) 

 but differs too widely to render a detailed comparison necessary. 



Locality and position. — Keokuk division of Subcarboniferous series, near War- 

 saw, Illinois. » 



POLYZOA. 



Genus EVACTINOPORA, M. & W. 



EVACTINOPORA RADIATA, M. & W. 



The interesting fossil upon which we propose to found this genus and 

 species is entirely silicified, and, as seen from below, presents the form of a 

 regular eight-rayed star, the rays being slender, and nearly equalling in length 

 the diameter of the nucleus. In a side view, however, it is seen to be regu- 

 larly rounded in outline below, while the slender rays are observed to be pro- 

 duced upwards in the form of thin vertical laminae, which converge to the 

 centre over the nucleus. The specimen is not in a condition to show whether 

 or not there is a central axis extending all the way up, but there probably is. 

 The ray3 are thickest below, and taper gradually upwards on their outer margins, 

 which are beveled or carinated all the way down to where they meet at the 

 middle of the under side. Within, they each pass abruptly into a thin lamina, 

 which is poriferous on both sides, and extends to the middle over the nucleus. 



The pores are circular, with a slightly prominent margin, and regularly dis- 

 posed nearly in quincunx, at Intervals about equalling their own diameter, or 

 sometimes less. They only exist in the thin portion of each ray, while the 

 thicker outer and inferior portions seem to be nearly or quite solid. 



We are not able to determine satisfactorily whether this was a free or an 

 attached Bryozoon ; but if attached, the stem or point of attachment was pro- 

 bably very small. 



Greatest transverse diameter to the extremity of the rays, 0-90 inch ; do. of 

 nucleus between the rays, 035 inch ; thickness of the outer margin of each ray 

 near the nucleus, 0-10 inch; diameter of pores about 0-02 inch. 



1865.] 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Locality and position. — The only specimen of this fossil we have seen is in a 

 granular mass of decomposing chert, containing some fragments of small cri- 

 noid columns. It was obtained from the Subcarboniferous rocks of Missouri, 

 but the exact locality and position we have been unable to ascertain. 



Note on the genus GILBERTSOCRINUS, Phillips. 



BY F. B. MEEK. 



Genus GILBERTSOCRINUS, Phillips, 1836. 

 Gilberisocrinus, Phillips, Geol. Yorkshire, part ii., p. 207, 1836. 

 Goniasteroidocrinus, Lyon and Casseday, Am. Jour. Sci. xxviii. p. 233, 1859. 

 Trematocrinus, Hall, Sup. Iowa Report, p. 70, 1860. 



Phillips' diagnosis of this genus reads as follows: 



" Basal joints five, forming a pentagon ; suprabasal [subradials] five, hexa- 

 gonal, forming a decagon with five re-entering angles, from which proceed 

 five heptagonal first costals [first radials] and five hexagonal second costals, 

 [second radials], bearing a pentagonal scapula [third radial] supporting joints 

 [secondary radials] which combine into rounded arms perforated in the centre. 

 First intercostals [first interradials] pentagonal. The following species have 

 been usually referred to Hhodocrinus, Miller, from which, it appears to me, they 

 differ entirely." (Phillips.) 



He mentions but the following three species, viz., G. calcaratus, G. mammil- 

 laris and G. btirsa, all from the subcarboniferous. His specific descriptions are 

 very brief and unsatisfactory, but his figures are tolerably good, and give a 

 sufficiently intelligible idea of the generic characters of the group. From these 

 figures, and his description, it is therefore evident that the formula, in accord- 

 ance with the later improved nomenclature, may be stated as follows : 



Generic formula of Gilhertsocrinus. 



Basal pieces 5. 



Subradials 5. 



Radials 3x5. 



Secondary or supraradials 3 or 4x10. 



Anal and interradial pieces 12 to 15x5. 



Pseudo-brachial appendages (arms of some authors) 5, located over the rays. 



Arm-openings (ambulacral,) 10, located directly under the pseudo-brachial 

 appendages. 



On comparing this formula with the following, given by Messrs. Lyon and 

 Casseday, of Goniasteroidocrinus, cited above, the close relations of these crinoids 

 will be apparent. 



Generic formula of Goniasteroidocrinus. 



Basal pieces 1X5, pentagonal, perforation not visible. 



Subradial pieces 5, hexagonal, nearly equal in size. 



Primary radial pieces 3x5, first spiniferous. 



Secondary radials 3x10, hexagonal. 



Interradial fields [including the anal area] 5x13 to 14, [pieces each]. 



Interbrachial fields 5x 1 to 9, [pieces each]. 



It may be proper to explain that the term pseudo-brachial appendages 

 is used in the formula of Gilbertsocrinus, for the parts regarded by Phillips and 

 by Messrs. Lyon and Casseday as arms, and that arm-openings, not alluded 

 to by Phillips in his description, though clearly shown in his figur s, are men- 

 tioned. These openings were not observed by Lyon and Casseday, because 

 they were hidden in their specimens by the attachment of the small pendulous 

 true arms, or, in the absence of the latter, by portions of the matrix, as is 

 known to the writer from the examination of specimens of their typical species 

 loaned by Mr. Lyon. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



It will therefore be seen that, exceptinor in mere specific details, these formu- 

 las, as far as they go, agree exactly. There is, however, a character which, 

 although not apparent in Messrs. Lyon and Casseday's formula, was neverthe- 

 less mentioned in their description, in which the types of these groups differ, 

 that is, in the position of the pseudo-brachial appendages (arms of Phillips 

 and of L. and C.) with relation to the other parts. In Gilbertsocrimis these 

 appendages are placed directly over the arm-openings and above the inter- 

 brachial spaces, while in Goniasteroidocrinus they stand over the interradial spaces. 



There may be various opinions in regard to the value of such a difference, but 

 to the writer it seems of not more than subgeneric importance. If these appen- 

 dages were true arms, or like the arms in other crinoids, designed to support 

 the reproductive organs, (" conceptacula,'') little doubt could be entertained 

 in regard to the full generic value of such a difference in their position. The 

 fact, however, that although provided with a central cavity through their entire 

 length, they have nowhere any external openings, being as it were hermetically 

 sealed, is conclusive evidence that they could have performed no such function. 

 Hence it is probable tbey should be viewed rather as being in some respects 

 analogous to the lateral branches, or verticils, so often given off from the 

 columns of Platycrinus and other crinoids. This opinion seems to derive sup- 

 port from the fact that, in some of the typical forms of Gilbertsocrimis, as well 

 as in American species of Goniasteroidocrinus, these appendages, at their origin, 

 consist of a double series of pieces, pierced each through the centre by the only 

 cavit}- they posses, exactly like the joints of a column, or those of its lateral 

 branches, for which latter they might readily be mistaken, if found detached. 



From all the facts it seems probable, therefore, that the only relations these 

 false arms bore to the reproductive system, was that of strong rigid guards 

 thrown off from the margins of the dome, for the protection of the slender, true 

 ova-bearing arms hanging beneath them. Hence, although their existence or 

 absence maj' be a good generic distinction, theirposilion over the interradial, or 

 interbrachial spaces, can scarcely be regarded as such. 



It will probably be remembered that, in a paper read before the Academy by 

 Prof. Worthen and the writer, in September, 1860, and published in the Pro- 

 ceedings for that month, (p. 383), we suggested that a genus proposed by Prof. 

 Hall at about the same time, under the name Trematocrinus, was apparently 

 very closely related to Goniasteroidocrinus, Lyon and Casseday, 1859, and that 

 we should not be surprised if it would prove to be the same. Having recently 

 had an op]iortunity, through the politeness of Mr. Lyon, to examine good spe- 

 cimens of the typical species of the latter, the writer is completely satisfied that 

 there, is not the slightest generic or even subgeneric difference between the 

 types for which these two numes were proposed.* and as Lyon and Casseday's 

 name has priority, it will have to be retained for the group, whether we regard 

 it as a genus or a subgenus. It is true the later name is shorter and more 

 euphonious, but we have no right for that reason to make it an exception to 

 the generrtlly accepted law of priority. It is surely not greatly more objec- 

 tionable than Macrostylocrinus, Hall, still retained by its author instead of the 

 later name Ci/tocrinus, Roemer. 



The following are the American species of this group, viz. : Gilbertsocrinus 

 (Goniasteroidocrinus) tuberosus, Lyon and Casseday; Gilbertsocrinus [Goniast.) 

 jiscellus, z= Trematocrinus JisceUus, Meek and Worthen ; Gilbertsocrinus (Goniast.) 

 ti/pus, G. (Goniast.) tuherculatus, G. (Goniast.) papiUatus, G. (Goniast.) robustus, 

 and (ur. (Goniast.) spinigerus, = Trematocrinus typus, T. tuberculatus, T. papiUa- 

 tus, T. Tiihustvs and T. spinigerus, Hall. 



* As already stated, it wa-s ascertained from the examiaation of Mr. Lyon's typical species, that it 

 possesses the same auibulacral openings as the species upon which Treniatocrfnus wa^ founded; 

 and that the slender pendulous ''plumose cilia' of Lyon and Casseday (here regarded as true 

 arms) are connected with these openings, as the arms of other palaeozdic crinoids connect with the 

 arm openings, excepting that they hang down, instead of ascending. 



1865.] 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Note on a Species of WHALE occurring on tlie coasts of the United States. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



As a contribution to the history of the cetaceans of th-e Atlantic, I desire 

 to give a brief account of the osteological characters of a species of whale- 

 bone whale, the Black Whale of the whalers of our coast. 



Individuals are frequently cast ashore Eastward, and some are known to 

 enter New York harbor. They were formerly abundant about the mouth of 

 the Delaware : a letter of Wm. Penn's, dated 1683, states that eleven were 

 taken that year about the capes. Five specimens are stated to have been 

 seen in the Delaware river since that time, and two of great size are recorded 

 to have been found on the coast of Maryland.* Three have come under my 

 notice, one taken opposite this city three years ago, one cast ashore in Reho- 

 both Bay, Del., and one in Mobjack Bay, Va. 



The first of these, a half grown individual, was taken and exhibited for 

 some time, and its nearly complete skeleton, presented by George Davidson, 

 occupies a prominent place in the Academy's museum, and has afforded the 

 best means of determining the affinities of the species. From an examination 

 it is evident that it is a species of the genus Eubalaena, Gray, therefore widely 

 different from the right whale, Balaena mysticetus, and congeneric with 

 the B. australis and antipodarum of the Southern seas. While dif- 

 fering in many points from the first, it is strongly separated from the last two, 

 and has no doubt remained without proper notice up to thepresent time. 



The total length of the specimen, in which all the epiphyses are as yet un- 

 united, is thirty-one and a half feet ; which the presence of the intervertebral 

 cartilages would extend to thirty-seven ; of this the head, measured axially, is 

 eight feet five inches, or a little less than one-fourth. This proportion is 

 similar to that of the australis. The vertebrae are fifty-six, of which the 

 seven cervicals are all united, the posterior three in the lower part of their 

 centra only ; above, they form a solid crest, the atlas and the last attached 

 by the superior part of their neural arches only. The fourth, fifth and sixth 

 cervical diapophyses are distinctly united on one side, while the remainder 

 are separate ; on the other side the seventh is united with the three posterior, 

 and the three anterior are united. The first, second and third only have 

 inferior transverse processes. The thirty-first vertebra from the cervicals, or 

 sixteenth from the last rib is the first that encloses the vertical foramen with 

 the diapophysis, and the neural spine is strong on the thirty-seventh. Of the 

 ribs, which appear to have been all preserved, there are fourteen pairs ; the an- 

 terior are single headed. Of the dorsal vertebrae the first four have slender 

 elongate diapophyses ; the anterior zygapophysis is first definitely separated 

 on the tenth. The scapula is 29 inches broad by 23 high. 



The outline of the top of the muzzle is much arched ; the frontal orbital 

 processes are subtransverse and rather broad. The supraoccipital is more 

 produced anteriorly than represented by Cuvier in the a u s t r a 1 i s.f Nasals 

 heavy, nine inches and a half long by three, or distally four inches broad, 

 much as represented for the B. mysticetus. J with the posterior outline 

 oblique inward, attached by a plicate suture. They are much narrower than 

 in the Leyden Eubalaena, which is evidently not the true australis, whose 

 skeleton I have studied in the Jardin des Plantes. 



In the periotic bones there is much peculiarity discoverable. The specific 

 characters are confirmed by the same portion of a much larger individual 

 from Newport, R. I. The meatus is narrow, occupying nearly the whole 

 length of the bulla, but is nearly closed by the curved marginal anterior pro- 

 cess. Its form from below is that of a rounded trapezium, with a deep ante- 



• Watson's Annals of rbiladelphia, ii.428. 

 t Ossemens Fossiles, pi. 226. J Flower P. Z. S. London, 1864, 390. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 169 



rior groove. Anteriorly it is much more obliquely transverse than figured 

 by Cuvier : the posterior process of the periotic is only half as long as the 

 anterior, and the latter is cylindrical acuminate not spatuliform at the extre- 

 mity. From above, these processes are nearly parallel, while they are very 

 widely divergent, and equal in the australis; the interior outline instead 

 of being truncate, has a massive acumination. On the posterior view the 

 anterior process is nearly concealed. 



The humerus is short and furnished with a large bicipital process, marking 

 one-third of its length. 



The points in which this species differs from the australis, as yet im- 

 perfectly made known, are the more acuminate parietals, the presence of four 

 more vertebrae, where the last neural spine stands on the thirty-seventh in- 

 stead of the thirty-fourth ; and one more pair of ribs ; the considerably greater 

 breadth of the scapula, and strongly peculiar periotic bones. 



This species may readily occur on the European coasts, and is no doubt 

 allied to, or the same as, the species pursued by the Biscay whalers, which 

 Eschricht* says is related to the australis. This does not appear to have 

 been described, though catalogued without reference by Gray and Flower, 

 under the name of biscayensis. The former saysf its head is two-fifths the 

 length, by what authority does not appear, as he states that he has not seen 

 specimens. The characters which separate the genus Eubalaena of this au- 

 thor, from Balaena, appear to be very slight. 



Harlan, in Fauna Americana, includes a species Balaena glacialis Klein, or 

 Nord-Caper of some old authors. There is no real description of this ani- 

 mal extant, and Scoresby and Cuvier regard it, with good reason, as imaginary. 



The species above described maybe called Balaena cisarctica; its 

 skeleton will be more fully illustrated in a future publication. 



On some Couirostral BIBDS from Costa Eica in the Collection of the Smith- 

 sonian Institution. 



BY JOHN CASSIN. 



1. Sporophila corvina, (Sclater.) 



Spermophila corvina, Sclat., Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1859, p. 379. 

 One specimen only, which is in adult plumage, and presents all the charac- 

 ters of this species given by Mr. Sclater, as above. San Jose, Mr. J. Carmiol. 



2. Phonipara pusilla, (Swainson.) 



Tiaris pusilla, Swains., Philos. Mag., 1827, p. 438. 

 San Jose, Mr. J. Carmiol. 



3. Pyrqisoma Kieneri, Bonaparte. 



Pyrgisoma Kieneri, Bonap., Consp. Av. i. p. 486, (1850.) 

 One specimen only, which is in adult plumage, and is the first that I have 

 ever seen. This species is clearly distinct from P. biarcuatum, though strictly 

 of the same genus, being smaller, and having a strong character in the wide 

 transverse band on the breast. It is sufficiently described by the Prince Bona- 

 parte, as above. Dr. Cabanis' note on this species and P. biarcuatum in Journ. 

 Orn., 1860, p. 412, is to me difficult to understand, especially as he seems never 

 to have seen the latter bird nor the description of it in Voy. Venus, Zoologie. 

 vol. V. p. 216, (Paris, 1855.) The two species are quite distinct. Mr. J. 

 Carmiol. 



4. Melozone liEucoTis, Cabacis. 



Melozonc leucotis, Cab., Jour. Orn, 1860, p. 413. 

 Specimens in adult plumage. This species is not, in my opinion, of the 

 same genus as the preceding and P. biarcuatum. Angostura, Costa Rica. 

 March 2, 1864. Mr, Carmiol. 



*CoiDpt(>8 RenduB, 1860, p. 9^4. f Ann. Mag. Nat. Uiat. I860, p. S4S 



1865.] 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



5. PiTYLUS GROsscs, (Linnseus.) 



Loxia ffrossa, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 307, (1766.) 

 One specimen in young plumage. Paqua, Mr. J. Carmiol. 



6. Embernagba striaticeps, Lafresnaye. 



Embernagra striaticeps, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1843, p. 154. 

 Clearly this species, and quite similar to specim'fens in the Academy Museum 

 bearing the valuable labels of M. Jules Verreaux. Specimens oi Arremon coni- 

 rosiris, Bonap., are also in the Academy Museum, from the same excellent 

 naturalist, and labelled with his usual great care and accuracy. The dis- 

 tinctions between these two species are indicated correctly by Messrs. Sclater 

 and Salviu in Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1864, p. 352, but unfortunately with 

 their usual great economy of words 1 Angostura, June 8, 1864. Mr. Carmiol. 



7. Arremon rufidorsalis, nobis. 



Allied to A. aurantiirostris, spectabilis and erythrorhynckus, and about the 

 same size, but with the back chestnut. Bill red ; edges of wings at shoulders 

 yellowish-red. 



Head above black, with a^ medial longitudinal band of dark ashy; cheeks 

 black, long yuperciliary line white. Back chestnut; rump and upper tail 

 coverts dark olive green ; wings dark green, the outer coverts tinged with 

 chestnut; shoulders narrowly edged with yellowish red; tail brownish black. 

 A wide pectoral band, black, edged below with dull greenish ; chin black ; 

 throat and middle of the abdomen white; flanks and under tail coverts dark 

 olive green, (especially the under tail coverts :) under wing coverts green ; bill 

 bright yellowish red ; feet greenish brown. 



Total length about 6^ inches, wing 3, tail 2^ inches. 



Ilab. — Turrialba, Costa Rica. May 24, 1865, Mr. J. Carmiol. 



Resembles most nearly A. spectabilis, Sclater, Proc. Zool Soc. London, 1854, 

 pi. 67, but has a wide pectoral band and dark green under tail coverts, and 

 differs from that and all other allied species in having the back chestnut. In 

 the present specimen the bill is bright yellowish carmine, paler at the base of 

 the under mandible. 



8. BuARKEMON BRUNNEiNUCHUs, (Lafresnaye.) 



Embernagra brunneinucha, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1839, p. 97. 

 Dota, Costa Rica, July 24, 1864. Mr. J. Carmiol. 



■ 9. Bdarremon crassirostris, nobis. 



Bill strong and larger than usual in this genus; wing short, rounded ; tail 

 rather long; feet strong. Head above dark chestnut, which color extends 

 somewhat on the back of the neck ; throat and sides of the head fully encircling 

 the eyes dark greenish brown, (nearly black,) some feathers of the throat and 

 others forming an obscure line from the corner of the under mandible white at 

 their bases. Entire upper parts of body dark olive green, lighter on the rump, 

 a few of the longer upper tail- coverts tinged with brown ; wing dark brown, 

 all the quills and coverts widely edged with green, uniform with the back. 

 Middle of breast and abdomen bright greenish yellow, sides, tibiie and under 

 tail-coverts dark green, very nearly uniform with upper parts of body ; tail 

 dark brown, nearly black. Bill light colored, (in specimen, the upper mandible 

 is light yellowish horn color, under mandible pale yellowish ;) fefet reddish- 

 brown. 



Total length about 6 inches ; wing 3, tail 2| inches. 



Hab. — Barranca, Costa Rica. April 14, 1864, ^, Mr. J. Carmiol. 



This bird forms a new subdivision of the genus Buarremon, easily character- 

 ized by its strong and more Pyranga-like bill. It is most nearly related to the 

 species of the group Pipilopsis, but does not intimately resemble any of those 

 nor other species known to me. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 171 



10. BuARREMON CHRYSOPOGON, (Bonaparte.) 



Chrysopoga typica^ Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 480, (1850.) 



Ataleptes chrysopogon, Bonap. 



Buarremon guUuralis, Lafres., Rev. Zoo!., 1842, p. 97? 

 This bird seems to be regarded by authors as entitled to the name here 

 adopted, but specimens in the Academy Museum bear Paris labels : *• Arrempn 

 gutturalis, Lafres." Dota, Costa Rica, July 24, 1864. Mr. J. Carmiol. 



11. Chlorospisgus albitempokalis, (Lafresnaye.) 



Tachyphonus albitemporalis, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1848, p. 12. 

 San Jose, Costa Rica. Dr. A. von Frantzius. 



12. Phcenicothradpis rdbicoidks, (Lafresnaye.) 



SaUator rubicoides, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1844, p. 41. 

 Grecia, Costa Rica, Dec. 12, 1864. Mr. Carmiol. 



13. Tachtphonus DeLattrei, (Lafresnaye.) 



Tachyphonus DeLattrii, Lafr., Rev. Zool., 1847, p. 42. 

 One specimen only of this species in very fine adult plumage, but not dif- 

 ferent in any respect from others in the Academy Museum from Nevr Grenada. 

 This bird is scarcely a Tachyphonus, nor congeneric, properly, in my opinion, 

 with any other bird with which I am acquainted. Paqua, Costa Rica, March 

 23, 1865. Mr. J. Carmiol. 



14. Tachyphonus luctuosus, D'Orbigny et Lafresnaye. 



TachypKonus luctuosus, D'Orb. et Lafres., Mag. Zool., 1837, p. 29. 



D'Orb. Voy. Am. Ois., pi. 20. 



Numerous specimens, in nearly all of which the males have a partially con- 

 cealed but well defined coronal spot of pale yellow, a character not j)reviously 

 known in this species. Those evidently in quite mature plumage are larger 

 than D'Orbigny's specimens in the Academy Museum, but not larger than his 

 figure above cited. The coronal spot is not present in D'Orbigny's specimens, 

 nor in numerou.s others which I have examined, and I suspect it appears only 

 at maturity, or in full nuptial plumage. No other peculiar character is appa- 

 rent to me in the present specimens. Angostura, March 10 and June 7. 1864, 

 and March 16, 1865. Mr. J. Carmiol. 



15. Tanagra Diaconus, Lesson. 



Tanagra Diaconus, Less., Rev. Zool., 1842, p. 175. 

 San Jose, Costa Rica, April 5, 1864. Mr. J. Carmiol. 



16. Tanagra melanoptera, Hartiaub. 



Tanagra melanoptera, Hartl., Rev. Zool. 

 Turrialba, Costa Rica, March 9, 1864. Mr. J. Carmiol. 



17. Pyranga bidentata, Swainson. 



Pyranga bidentata. Swains., Phil. Mag., 1827, p. 428 

 "Iris Yellow." Birris, Costa Rica, May 17, 1865. Dr. A. von Frantzius. 



18. Lanio leucothorax, Salvin. 



Lanio leucothorax, Salv., Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1864, p. 581. 



Numerous specimens, all of which present with much uniformity the peculiar 

 characters of this curious species as given by its discoverer, that excellent 

 naturalist and most judicious and liberal patron of the zoological sciences, 

 Osbert Salvin, Esq., of London. 



Angostura and Payariqui, Costa Rica, March, 1865. Mr. J. Carmiol. 



19. EuPHONiA fulvicrissa, Sclater. 



Euphonia fulvicrissa Sclat., Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1856, p. 276. 



Specimens apparently quite identical with others from New Grenada in Oapt. 

 Michler's collection in the Smithsonian Museum. 



Angostura and Paqua, Costa Rica, March, 1865. Mr. J. Carmiol. 



1865.] 




172 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP ' 



20. EupHONiA HiRCNDiNACEA, BoDaparte. 



Euphonia hirundinacea, Bonap., Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1837, p. 117. 

 Turrialba, Costa Rica, March 10, 1864. Mr. J. Carmiol. 



21. Euphonia gracilis, (Cabanis)? 



Phonasca gracilis, Cab., Jour. Orn., 1860, p. 333? 

 • Young birds, wiiich seem to be this species. Mr. J. Carmiol. 



22. Edphonia Annexe, nobis. 



About the size of and resembling E. ruficeps, D'Orb. et Lafres., but with the 

 under parts of body clear yellow, and the under tail coverts white. Bill mode- 

 rate, rather wide at base; wing short, with the third quill longest; tail short. 

 Head above to occiput dark yellowish chestnut, other parts of head, including 

 throat, black; body above, wings and tail fine dark violet-purple, (not steel 

 blue, as in E. ruficeps;) under parts of body clear yellow; under tail-coverts 

 white. Quills black ; inner webs of secondaries and tertiaries with large white 

 spaces ; tail feathers black, edged with violet purple, the outer feathers with 

 large while spots in their terminal halves. Bill and feet dark bluish, (in skin.) 



Total length about 4J inches ; wing 2J, tail If inches. 



Hub. — Santa Rosa, Costa Rica, March 3, 1865. Mr. J. Carmiol. Specimen 

 in Museum Smithsonian Institution, Washington. 



Of this interesting species one specimen only is in the collection of Mr. Car- 

 miol, and is fortunately in adult plumage. It is allied to the South American 

 E. ruficeps, xanthogastra and others, belonging to the subgroup designated 

 Acrolepies by Dr. Cabanis. (Jour. Orn., 1861, p. 90.) This bird has the upper 

 pans fine lustrous violet-purple, quite different from the steel blue and violet 

 of E. ruficeps, and it differs also in having the under parts clear yellow without 

 orange or darker shade, as in that species. The under tail coverts are white 

 in this species, but yellow in all its allies. Tail slightly emarginate. 



This handsome liule bird is dedicated to the lady of my friend Daniel Giraud 

 Elliot, Esq., of New York, whose excellent judgment and exquisite taste have 

 most efficiently aided her husband in the production of the most splendid orni- 

 thological works ever produced in this country. 



New POLYZONIID.S, Gervais. 



BY HORATIO C. WOOD, JR., M. D. 



Glomeris bicolob. 



G. parvus ; dorso olivaceo-nigro, linea mediana brunnea (interdum obso- 

 leta) ornata ; lateribus dilute brunneis ; oculi utrinque 6. 



The eyes are arranged in two straight linear series, of six each, on the outer 

 edge of the head. The antennae are somewhat elongate, filiform, and com- 

 posed of seven joints. Their last article is very small and inconspicuous, but 

 the penultimate is very large and long. 



The first scutum is semilunar and of a brownish tint. The second is not very 

 large, and has the anterior half of its surface chased with numerous parallel 

 transverse lines. Each scutum has a transverse, somewhat semilunar, dark 

 olive blotch, which, from the second to the last, covers the whole of its dorsal 

 surface. The second scutum has a blotch of about the same size as the 

 others, and another very small one in front of this. The last scutum is brown- 

 ish with a rather indistinct olive blotch on each side. 



This species is very interesting from the fact of its being the first Glomerie 

 found in Asia. As it has only 12 eyes, some naturalists would consider it as 

 representing anew genus, and if it is hereafter found that there are other Asia- 

 tic species with this peculiarity, I myself would regard it generic. Almost, 

 if not quite, all the European and African species have 16 eyes ; but a genus 

 has been described with the name Gervaisia, from the Carpathian mountains, 

 which has but five pairs of eyes. Taking this fact into consideration, I have 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



hesitated to consider this one character sufficient to indicate a new genus in 

 a single species. 



Hub. Hong Kong. Wm. Stimpson, M. D. 



OLIGASPIS* n. g. 



Corporis segmenta 9 ; antennae brcvissimae, quinque articulatae. Oculi aggre- 

 gati. 



This genus is allied to Zephronia, from which it differs entirely in the num- 

 ber of its segments. The anteunaj are very short and thick. 



0. PUNCTICEPS. 



0. dilute olivaceo brunncus, capite et segmento cepbalico castaneis ; capitis 

 superficie antica fere rude punctata : segmentis postice obscure rubido-brun- 

 neo marginatis. 



The head superiorily is emarginate and a little swollen at its external 

 angles so as to give somewhat of a reniforni appearance. Its vertex is smooth. 

 Many of the scuta have a large dark olive blotch or even blotches. Their sur- 

 face is mostly smooth and polished. The last scutum is very closely and dis- 

 tinctly punctate. The male genital organs have a pair of very heavy forceps 

 on each side, resembling the claws of a crab. These are placed at an angle 

 with one another, their bases attached to opposite sides of a broad plate. On 

 one side of their lower part is a curious surface corrugated by close, straight, 

 parallel furrows. 



Springing from the top and centre of this broad plate are a pair of straight 

 diverging small processes, with a conical central tongue or process. 



I have never had an opportunity of examining a female. For figures, 

 illustrating this species, see my fortlicoming Monograph of North American 

 iVIyriapoda. [Trans. Philos. Soc] 



'Hab. Port Natal. Rev. Aldeu Grout. Mus. A. N. S. 



On a New Genus of VESPERTILIONIDiE. 



BY H. ALLKN, M. D. 



The genus Synotus, founded by Keyserling and Blasius.f had for its type 

 the common Barbastelle. But Dr. GrayJ and Buonaparte.? having previously 

 defined Barbastellus as a distinct genus, it follows that Syuotus is but a syn- 

 onym of Barbastellus. In my memoir on N. A. Bats.|| I followed Wagner,^ 

 who placed both the American and Europenn species under Synotus. A more 

 extended study of this group has convinced me that this course is untenable. 

 There is not sufficient evidence in tlie diagnosis of Synotus, as given by K. 

 and B., to warrant the conclusion that it was intended to apply to the Amer- 

 ic»a species; and since they cannot be received by either Plecotus or Vesper- 

 tilio, it is necessarj'' to propose a new genus to include them. 



CORYIVORHINUS, n. g. 



Skull slightly depressed at vertex ; supra-occipital region inflated, sides 

 inconspicuous; frontal bones without crest. Nasal bones, broad, flat, 

 not depressed ; median fossa marked, — linear ; superior border of anterior 

 nares rounded ; summits convex and somewhat higher than orbital processes of 

 superior maxillse. The latter processes are swollen, and extend anteriorly 



1865.] 



* Oktyai da-rt(, Scntutn. 



1 Wirbt^l tliier« Kurnpns, 1840, .5.1. 



J Zoological Jourual. ii. 182t'>, 243. 



5 Fauna Italica Fasiculn 15, tab. 15, !836. 



j Mi>n&;. N. A. Bats, Smithsoniau lost., June, I8i>4. 



Y Schreb. aang. v. 1855,719. 



12 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



beyond the incomplete infra-orbital ridges, to which the infra-orbital fora- 

 mina are nearly contiguous. Zygomatic arch expanded at posterior third. 

 Molars 5. Cochleae not visible. Internal basal lobe of ear rounded, thicken- 

 ed, gradually losing its distinctness along the marked fold at inner border. 

 Inter-auricular membrane rudimentary ; external basal lobe terminating on 

 a line with the angle of the mouth ; it possesses a manifest lobe on the internal 

 surface. Antitragus scarcely perceptible. Tragus pointed gradually, ex- 

 ternal basal lobe conspicuously cupped. Nose v/ith two lateral hairy con- 

 verging excrescences — nostrils wider than long, subtriangfilar. No rounded 

 swelling at base of foot. Vertebrae of tail, 7.* 



C. MACKOTIS.f 



Head half the length of body. Upper lips tumid, — on sides of face rather 

 thickly set with pendant hairs. Excrescences on a line with the lateral 

 border of nostrils sparsely haired ; tuberosities at base flattened, well defined 

 posteriorly. Nostrils terminal, of an irregular triangular shape, the apices 

 pointing inward ; exterior lateral angle acute, borders not everted ; mental 

 space narrow, crescentric. Ears, length of body, with internal fold one-fifth 

 width of auricle, sparsely haired at internal border, tips turned slightly out- 

 wards ; outer half of auricle marked with irregular transverse lines ; the inner 

 lip to external basal lobe convex, nearly as high as long. Antitragus simple, 

 linear. Tragus nearly half the height of auricle, interior border ihickish 

 and marked with a few hairs, tip rather blunt; exterior basal lobe longer 

 than wide, inner and outer borders deflected upwards. Outer end of the free 

 edge of the sigmoid internal lobe tbickened. Fur long and silky, that of the 

 back of a blackish hue at base, verging to an obscure fawn or brown at tip. 

 The hair is, therefore, indistinctly bi-colored. The extent of the tip colora- 

 tion varies, but in all specimehs that of the color of the base predominates. 

 The hair of the belly is blackith at root, in some specimens slightly plumbe- 

 ous. Tips grayish, running to white toward the pubis. 



* Compare Plecotus (P. auritus.) i=kul! not depressed at vertex; snpra-octipitnl space well 

 defined but little inflated: frontal bone crested, ^apal bones narrow, depressed, no meQian foesa. 

 Orbital process proriueed. bounded anteriorly by the iufra-ui bital ridge, ivbich is sharply defined, 

 complete, and protects the infra-orbital foramen ininiediatfly in front. Zygomatic arch expanded 

 at middle third. Molars a; cochlea not visible. — Internal basal lobe of car obscure; a thin 

 papery fold terminating the internal border, and runs thence upwards and inwards, terminatfH 

 in a prominent, thickish lobe, fornaing the outer boundary of the large inter-auricular membrane. 

 Antitragus salieut, conTex, external ba^al. lobe simple. Tragus broad, points sharply; external 

 basal lobe developed, incurved upm itself. Is'ose simple — nostrils longer than wide, with tumid 

 inner walls. Ease of foot witli small rounded swelling. Jtdnts of Vail 8. 



y'espertilio. (1*. suhuIatus^j—^kuU not depressed at vertex; supia-occipital region greatly 

 p^wollen: par-occipital process trenchant, niaily a.s long as condyles; nasal bones narrow, convex, 

 higher than orbital process, and tapei ing from above downwards. Orbital process slight, swollen, 

 not involving side ol face ; intra-orbital fjramen at posterior fourth of orbito-nasal space. Zygt- 

 matic arch convex, cot expanded, becoming more slender posteriorly, depressed in middle. 

 Gochlese visible. Molars S. — Internal basal lobe of ear simple, acute, inner border of auricle 

 simple. No swelling at base of foot. Vertebrae of tail, 9. 



BarhasUUus. {IS. communis.) — Skull scarcely depie.ssed at parietal suture. Nasal bcneB flat, 

 depressed below the level of the orbital process; internal process pioduced inferiorly at anterior 

 nares. Infra-orbital ridge rudimentary, foramen midway between orbit and anterior nares. Zygo- 

 matic arch straight, and of uniform tenuity. Molars i. O'chleas visible posteriorly. — Internal 

 basal lobe of ear scarcely perceptible, net juinirjg the small inter-aniicular membrane; internal 

 border of ear not folded bad-'wards, but erect; external border sinuate: externa! basal lobe 

 simple, terminating above the angle ot the mouth. Antitragus sharp, well detiried, convex. 

 Tragus points gradually, external border obscnrcly bi-euiarginated ; basal lobe simple, inferior 

 border alone curved, to frm a minute wart. Nose simple, truncate; nostrils irregular, inner 

 border produced laterally, not tumid No rounded swelling at base of foot. Joints of tail 9. 

 ^Thi8 genus has remote affinities with Nycteris and Mi-gaderma.)* 



t (Mon. N. A. Bats, loc. cit.) 



* Histiotus, Gervais. (Caetelnau'B L'Araerique du and Mam. 1855, p. 77 . pi. xiii. f. 6) apparently 

 l«>long8 to this groupi. 1 have not had an opportunity of examining it. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



C. TOWNSENDI. 



Head length of body. Tapper lip slightly tumid on sides of face, a line of 

 delicate hairs pendant. Excrescences sparsely haired ; tuberosities swollen 

 at base, bulging, outline obscure inferiorly. Nostrils terminal, of an irregu- 

 lar trilobed shape ; external lateral angle obtuse, edges everted, with internal 

 inferior border rimmed. Chin with a wide triangular mentum. Ears with 

 internal fold one-fourth wiilth of auricle, sparingly dotted with hair. Inner lip 

 to external basal lobe convex, much longer than high. Antitragus inconspicu- 

 ous. Tragus nearly half the height of auricle ; internal border thickened, 

 and slightly haired ; exterior basal lobe indistinctly quadrangular, wider 

 than long, and somewhat flattened externally, border convex ; central inci- 

 sions of upper jaw almost unicuspid.* 



Fur long and silky, on back less distinctly bi-colored than in the preceding 

 species, verging in some individuals to unicolor. The tips are of a darkish 

 brown mixed with grey, verging to the style seen in macrotis. The fur of the 

 belly is also blackish at base, with occasionally a ferruginous tinge ; the tips 

 are of two kinds, either a whitish hue, as in macrotis, or of an indistinct yel- 

 lowish brown. 



The points mentioned in the above descriptions with reference to the " in- 

 ternal basal lobe" and "inter-auricular membrane," may need explanation. 

 A simple auricle is seen in V. suhulatus with a clearly defined internal 

 border and basal lobe. In Plecotus, Barbastellus and Synotus a crescentic 

 fold of membrane is seen at basal region of internal portion of auricle, 

 which is evidently homologous with the free lobe of the simple auricle. 

 But surrounding and extending upwards from it along the inner border is 

 a membranous fold, which renders the true outline obscure. Such growths 

 I consider to be appendages to the auricle, and, while complicating the 

 detail of structure, in no way affect the plan. Should these folds meet 

 across the head, there would be formed an " inter-auricular membrane ;" this 

 may be complete, (that is, extending the entire length of auricles), as in some 

 genera of Noctilionidje and Megadermatidae ; or it may be rudimentary, as in 

 the above genera. In the latter class the appendages are quite largely de- 

 veloped, though not touching ; and in this connection they may be considered 

 to be rudiments of an inter-auricular membrane. 



Sejjtembej' bth. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Fifteen members present. 



Dr. Leidy remarked, that of the two fishes from the Isle of Shoals, N. H., 

 presented this evening by Mr. W. M. Oanby, one was of unusual interest. It 

 was a foetal Dog-fish, or Dog-shark, with the vitelline sac appended to its ab- 

 domen, which Mr. Canby had obtained, together with others, from a gravid 

 parent fish. Mr. C. had heard a dispute among several persons as to whether 

 the Dog-fish (Acanthias Americanus) laid eggs or brought forth living young, 

 and, having mentioned the matter to a fisherman, the latter said they brought 

 forth living young; and an opportunity offering shortly afterwards, proved it 

 by opening a gravid female and taking out the living young, of which the 

 specimen presented was one. 



The deaths of Sir Wni. Jackson Hooker, of England, and Mr. Charles 

 J. Wistar, of Gerraantown, correspondents of the Academy, were an- 

 nounced. 



* In Mod. loc dt. p. C6, read, on 7th line, Ittit " distinctly bifid at cutting edge." 



1865.] 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



September 12 /A. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



The deaths of Mr. Jacob R. Smith and Mr. Joseph D. Brown, mem- 

 bers of the Academy, were announced. 



September 19th. 



The President, Dr. Bridges^, in the Chair. 

 Twenty members present. 



The following papers were oflfered for publication : 

 '' On a new generic type of Sharks," and " On two species of Del- 

 phinidae." By Prof. Theo. Gill. 



" Notes on a species of Hunchback Whale." By Prof. E. D. Cope. 



Dr. Leidj directed the attention of the Academy to some fossil remains of 

 Rhinoceros from Texas and California, which, he observed, together with those 

 already described by him from the Mauvaises Terres of White Jliver, and from 

 the Niobrara or L'eau-qui-court River, of Nebraska, were probable evidence of 

 the former existence of five species of the genus within the boundaries of the 

 United States. 



One of the species, previously described, from White River, is so peculiar as 

 to constitute a subgenus apart from the others. It was a small animal, with a 

 hornless skull, and possessed six incisors and a pair of canines in each jaw, 

 besides the usual series of seven molars on each side. It was named Hyraco- 

 don 7iebraskensis (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1856, 92.) 



The second species, Rhinoceros occidentalts, from White River, has the same 

 formula of dentition as the Indian or Javan Rhinoceros, and was about half 

 the size of that animal. 



Rhinoceros crassus, (Pr. Ac. 1858, • 28), from L'eau-qui-court, has the same 

 formula of dentition as the Indian Rhinoceros, and was about the same size. 

 The incisors appear to have held the same proportionate size as in the latter, 

 but in R. occidenlalis they were proportionately very much smaller. A worn 

 superior incisor of R. crassus measures 28 linee aniero-posteriorly and 10 lines 

 transversely. The corresponding tooth of i2. occidentalis measures 11 lines by 

 5 lines. A broken superior last molar of the former is estimated to have 

 measured 28 lines obliquely and externally, the same diameter transversely 

 and anteriorly, and 24 lines antero-posteriorly and internally. In R. occidentalis 

 corresponding measurements hold the relationship of 18 lines, 18 lines, and 16 

 lines. 



The Texan Rhinoceros is indicated by the greater and more characteristic 

 portion of the crown of an upper molar tooth, probably the penultimate. It; 

 was obtained from a tertiary deposit, probably miocene, and submitted to Dr. 

 L. for examination, by Dr. Benj. F. Shumard. It presents much the general 

 appearance of preservation of the Mauvaises Terres fossils of White River. It 

 evidently indicates a species different from those of the latter locality, and 

 was larger than either, approaching in size R. crassus, though it was smaller. 

 The estimated measurements of the restored tooth are two inches for the an- 

 tero-posterior diameter externally, 22 lines for the transverse diameter ante- 

 liorly, and 18 lines in the latter direction posteriorly. The median valley is 

 strongly sigmoid, arising from e.ich of the inner lobes being provided with an 

 oblique offset extending into the valley in a parallel manner. For the species 

 the name oi Rhinoceros meridianus was proposed. 



The California Rhinoceros is indicated by the greater portion of the right 



[Sept. 




NATORAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



side of a lower jaw retaining the symphysis ; from Chili Gnlch, Calaveras Co., 

 and was submitted to Dr. L.'s inspection by Prof. J. D. Whitney, who is in 

 charge of the California State Survey. The speciiBen resembles, in its con- 

 dition of preservation, the Mauvaises Terres fo.ssils of White River, Nebraska. 

 The formula of dentition is the same as in the Indian Rhinoceros, and the 

 proportionate size of the teeth was the same. It was about the size of Ji. oc- 

 cidentalism or perhaps a trifling dr-gree larger, but its lau-ral incisors were triple 

 the size. The estimated length of the jaw is about IG inches. The space 

 occupied by the molar series is S inches. Regarding the specimen as indicating 

 a species distinct from any of the preceding, the name of Rhinoceros hespcriujs 

 was proposed for it. 



Seiitcmher 26 ih. 



The President, Da. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Thirty-two members pres-^-nt. 



On report of the respective Cotuiiiittees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



On a New Generic Type of SHARKS. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the year 1S58 the Smithsonian Institution received, from Gapt. Stone, 

 the jaws and vertebrae of an enormous species of shark existing iu the Gulf 

 of California and known to the inhabitants of the neighboring regions as the 

 •' Tiburon ballenas," or " whale shark. " The specimen represented by the 

 spoils was said to have been "twenty feet long,'' with a " head six feet wide," 

 "pectorals three feet long " and "flukes six feet between tips.'' "The back 

 from the head to first dorsal fin, brown with reddish spots." The head is re- 

 presented as truncated in front. 



The dried dentigerotis band of the upper jaw is slightly curved forwards, 

 about nineteen inches between the extremities, and somewhat more than an 

 inch in width in front. The teeth are fixed and extremely minute, the largest 

 being little more than a line ia length, and decrease towards the ends of 

 the jaw; they are disposed in regularly transverse rows, of which there are 

 over one hundred and sixty (liJ4 — 167) on each side, while i i front there are 

 from thirteen to sixteen in each transverse row ; each tooth is recurved back- 

 wards and acutely pointed, swollen and with a lieel-like projection in front 

 rising from its base. 



This type will be seen, therefore, to be very distinct, but is evidently re- 

 lated to the South African genus Rhinodon, and must be referred to the family 

 of Rhinodontidre with the name of Micristodus punctatus. 



Oa two species of DELPHINID.E, from California, in the Smithsonian 



Institution. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



While examining the species of Cetaceans, represented by skulls and skins, 

 in the Smithsonian Institution, I discovered two species of Delphinidje sup- 

 posed to have been liitherto undescribed. Brief descriptions of these are now 

 submitted ; at another time, it is proposed to give more extended descriptions 

 as well as figures. 



LaGEXORUVNCHUS OBLIQl'IT/ENS, Gill. 



The skull in its generic characters agrees with that of L. leucopleurus, the 

 1865.] 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



type of the genus. The beak is rather robust, its greatest width being con- 

 tained about three times and a half in the length of the skull ; thence it de- 

 creases gradually forwards, the lateral contour describing a sigmoid outline, 

 while the surface above towards the end is moderately and quite regularly 

 arched from side to side, no groove separating the intermaxillaries and supra- 

 niaxillaries. The triangular or deltoid area, in front of the nostrils, is nearly 

 plane but elevated, and its surf^ice corrugated ; it gradually ascends back- 

 wards to the posterior angles of the intermaxillaries, while forwards it is in- 

 curved, and continued as a narrow internal margin of the maxilliaries, almost 

 to the anterior fourth of the beak ; its greatest width is less than half the 

 width of the cranium. The interspace between the intermaxillaries is wide, 

 and scarcely contracted at the middle. The supraoccipital projects forwards, 

 and its point almost or quite touches the nasals. The temporal fossse project 

 far backwards. The lower jaw is nearly uniformly high for the posterior 

 fourth of its length, and at its symphisis is again enlarged and deeper. 



The teetli are elongated, boldly carved, in the upper jaw about thirty-two 

 in number ; all are directed obliquely forwards and outwards ; the distance 

 between the last and the posterior notch of the supramaxillary equalling the 

 width of the bone ; in the lower jaw there are about thirty or thirty-one 

 teeth on each side, directed somewhat outwards, and the posterior one also 

 slightly backwards. 



Three skulls of adults of this species, obtained at San Francisco, California, 

 are in the Smithsonian collection. They indicate a species different from any 

 that has yet been intelligibly described. I refer it to Lagenorhynchus, as con- 

 tradistinguished from Delphinus by its flat palate, destitute of lateral grooves : 

 the differences between skulls of this genus and Cephalorhynchus are not evi- 

 dent from the published accounts. 



Phocaexa vomerina, Gill. 



The skull is vei y similar to that of P. communis, and the proportions gene- 

 rally differ little or none, but it is at once distinguished by the development 

 of the vomerine bone, which is more developed and recurrent backwards, ex- 

 panding below into a more or less enlarged horizontal process behind the 

 palatines. The teeth appear also to be more numerous ; in the upper 

 jaw, on each side, there are about thirty-nine or forty teeth, disposed in two 

 divaricating series, in the front of which are About eighteen, and in the pos- 

 terior eleven. In other respects no decided specific differences seem to exist. 



This species is represented in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution 

 by the much injured skull of an animal obtained by Dr. Kennerly at Puget's 

 Sound, and by the skin and skull of a younger animal, procured at San Fran- 

 cisco by Dr. William Stimpson as naturalist of the "North Pacific Exploring 

 Expedition. 



Note on a Species of HUNCHBACK WHALE. 

 BY PROF. E. D. COPE. 



The author has had an opportunity of studying the skeleton of a hunch- 

 backed whale of our coast, preserved in the museum at Kiagara Falls, in 

 Canada. A label on the specimen explained that the animal was found dead 

 at sea, forty miles from Petit Menan lighthouse, off the coast of Maine, and 

 was towed to shore by a Capt. Taylor. It was carefully cleaned, and appeared 

 to be perfect, except in the lack of the sternal, pelvic, and periotic elements. 

 Its length, when fresh, was fifty feet. 



It presents all the characters of the genus Megaptera, Gray, especially of 

 the northern species, including the lack of coracoid process, and presence of 

 a small coronoid process of the mandible. Its subordinate characters differ 



[Sept 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



from those of the M. 1 o n g i m a n a and g i g a s, the kuown north Atlantic 

 species, as figured and described by Rudolphi and Gray. Tlie transverse pro- 

 cess of the atlas is directed obliquely upward, truncate, deeper tlian long, 

 measuring half the depth of the articular face, its upper origin above the lat- 

 ter, and at the base of the neural arch. A rounded process, bearing the pos- 

 terior articular surface, projects into the upper part of the spinal canal. Of the 

 transverse processes of the axis, the superior is longer ; the eanal is not 

 depressed, a little over half the diameter of the centrum. The superior 

 transverse processes increase in length to the fifth cervical, where they are 

 straight and slightly descending ; those of the sixth and seventh are well 

 developed. The last is the only one without inferior process ; the others are 

 well developed ; that of the fifth, three-fifths the diameter of the centrum, 

 and slightly angulated near the middle. Total number of vertebrje, 48, all free; 

 the neural spine is first smaller than the zygapophysis on the fortieth. The 

 neural arches and spines are remarkably elevated on the dorsal and lumbar 

 regions, somewhat as in the Catodontidse : e. g., in the 33d vertebrae, the ver- 

 tical diameter of the centrum is 9.75 inches, andtheheight of the arch and spine. 

 17.87 inches, or nearly double ; the position of the zygapophysis measures half 

 the elevation. The cauda.l series is short, and though a few vertebr;e have pos- 

 sibly been lost, the series appears as though complete ; there are attachments 

 for eight chevron bones. There are fourteen pairs of ribs, of which the 

 anterior are simple-headed, and flattened distally ; the first is especially 

 dilated, double the width of the median, and presents a process on its pos- 

 terior edge near the extremity. This is present on the two following, being 

 successively nearer the extremity in each. Those of the last pair are slender, 

 and longer than iu Balsena, exceeding the second pair. The length of the 

 humerus and remainder of the fore limb is 9.05 feet, equal the length of the 

 cranium ; they supported a fluke equal in life to one-fifth the total length. 

 The breadth of the cranium measured below, from tip to tip of the orbital 

 processes of the frontal, 6.41 feet, or to the length as 8 to 11 ; in Rudolphi'S 

 figure of the longiraana, the proportions are as 8 to 14. Breadth between 

 coronoids of mandible, 5.75 feet. The ulna is much curved, and with two 

 proximal heads. Scapula, height, 29.6 inches ; breadth, 44.4 inches. 



This specimen diff"ers from those described by Gray* and Rudolphi, f in the 

 long inferior lateral processes of the posterior cervical vertebrae ; in the 

 former, they are said to exist on the anterior only. W. P. Flower, however, 

 in a valuable paper| on cetacean skeletons, describes two specimens, one in 

 the museum at Louvain, and the other at Brussels, which exhibit these 

 processes as far as the sixth and fifth vertebra, respectively, but of diminished 

 length. In the specimen under consideration, that of the fifth is as long as 

 that of the second. 



The parallelopiped form and elevated position of the transverse processes, 

 and the internal process of the atlas, are not represented in Dr. Gray's figures. 



The cranium is broader, iu proportion to its length, tliau represented by 

 Rudolphi, and shorter in proportion to the total, than in the measurements 

 of Flower and Moore : in these it is one-fourth, or more ; iu the Maine speci- 

 men, one-fifth, or less. The fins are, also, relatively shorter, measuring one- 

 fifth of the length, instead of one-third. 



A most striking peculiarity of the species is the great elevation of the 

 arches and spinous processes of the dorsal, and especially the lumbar verte- 

 brae, reminding one of the structure in the toothed whales. The outline of 

 the skeleton is thus somewliat humped behind, presenting a contrast to that 

 represented by Rudolphi in the type specimen of the 1 o n g i m a n a, where the 

 elevation of the arches and spines does not exceed the diameter of the cen- 

 trum, on the lumbar region at least : on the 33d vertebra, the zygapophysis 



• * 



* Proc. ZioL Soc. Lond.. 1864. 208. t MBm. Acad. Berlin, 1829, 13 ;. 



X Pr. Z S. LonJ., IHU, 416-18. 



1865.] 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY* OP 



measures one- third this height. The length of the diapophyses is considerable, 

 and similar in both. Eudolphi represents eleven chevron bones, and the 

 anterior ribs are not flattened, or furnished with an inner process in his 

 figure. 



In the M. gigas, the spinal canal is relatively larger, and the cervical 

 superior and inferior transverse processes of one side are more symmetrical 

 and similar. 



An American fin-backed whale has been named Megaptera americana, 

 from a very brief and indefinite description in the Philosophical Transactions, 

 I. p. 11. A species named on such a basis can never be recognized; but, if 

 we must accept it, the only character given, the relative lengths of the body 

 and fin, are entirely at variance with those of the present species : the length 

 of the latter is said to be one-third of the total. 



Supposing the reduced number of vertebrae and chevron bones to be the 

 result of accident, and the form of the anterior ribs to have been unnoticed 

 by Rudolphi, the shorter head and fins, the peculiarly high neural spines and 

 peculiarities of some of the cervical vertebi «, would seem to distinguish this 

 specifically from the longimana, if, as is most probable from the recent 

 researches of Gray, such characters are invariable in the spt^cies of Cetaceans. 

 On such premises this animal may be called Megaptera o s p h y i a. 



A species of this genus has left its remains in the miocene of Eastern Vir- 

 ginia, judging from periotic and other bones sent me by my friend Edw. Hol- 

 way. of Yorktown. Probably it is one of the species described by Leidy, Proc. 

 Acad., 1851, 308. 



A pair of bulla; without their other periotic elements has been sent me from 

 the Museum. Salem, Mass., by Frederick W. Putnam, Secretary of the Essex 

 Institute. They were presented to the Museum by Capt. J. W. Clever, and 

 are said to have belonged to a hunchbacked whale. Their locality is unknown. 



The transverse section represents a cylinder. Taking the bulla of the left side, 

 the incurved lip of the interior face (position derived from the figures of Balsena 

 australis inOssemeus Fossiles) forming no angle with the inferior aspect: this 

 lip rolls regularly inward without compression or fold ; with its lamiiise the 

 smooth surface terminates, all the remaining surface of the bulla being closely 

 rugose. Viewed from above, the anterior extremity is more contracted than 

 the posterior, and the outer face presents three intiations, while the inner is 

 medially straight. Of the superoexterior inflations, the middle is prolonged 

 into the usual superior process, which is much recurved, and constricts mode- 

 rately the great fissure at two-fifths its length from its posterior extremity ; it 

 is separated by a deep fissure from the posterior inflation. The main fissure 

 is in one plane, and is expanded into both lips anteriorly. The portion sup- 

 porting the other periotic elements postero-interiorly stands on a strong 

 pedicel. Grreatest length, 4 in. 5 1. ; breadth at middle inflations, 2 in. 8-4 1. 



Huxley's figure of the periotic bones of Balfena australis (Eiem. Com- 

 par. Anat. 273) represents the longer process as Cuvier, longer and not so 

 acuminate as in our specimens of the B. cisarctica, but the shorter process 

 as much shorter than in the former figure, and more as in our specimens. 



A pair of earbones of one individual from the Museum Salem, difler con- 

 siderably from those of three individuals of the B. cisarctica in the Academy 

 collection of nearly the same size. In them an arched ridge descends from 

 the upper elongate lip process, on its inner side, and, describing a curve, rises 

 to the pedestal of the longer periotic process. In the cisarctica the ridge 

 is inconspicuous, and includes but a groove between it and the labial border, 

 while in the Salem specimen it is very strong, and, descending farther, in- 

 cludes a pocket with the lip border. In the latter there is a broad smooth 

 rim on the rising outer lip margin of the other end ; in the cisarctica none 

 at all. Viewed from below, th»end next the long processes is broader and 

 more nearly truncate, owing to the strong development of the exterior inflation 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 181 



of that end into a strong solid basal angle, and the expansion of the inner 

 basal outline. The angle formed by the meeting of the inner and under faces 

 of the bulla is more aeiite, from the greater flattening of the former. 



These difi'er as much from Balsena mjsticetus angulata,* Gray. The long 

 section of the opening is narrower, and the short portion shorter ; the external 

 basal angle opposite this portion, as well as the pocket, is not represented in 

 Gray's figure. The former feature, with the greater prominence of the long 

 external inflations at the other end, gives a very different inferior view, from 

 the greater breadtb, etc. The characteristic angle of Dr. Gray's figure is also 

 wanting in the Salem species or variety. 



Another bulla from Mus. Salem (No. 113) is narrower on the inferior view 

 than even the c i s a r c t i c a , and the outer lip of the opening is considerably 

 higher. The inner inferior outline below the long process is very obliquely 

 truncate, and the outer prominence near it is directed more outward. The 

 inner or thick lip is not heavy, and is miich plicate. The inner inferior com- 

 pressed margin is much less flattened than the other Salem variety, (111 — 1111.) 

 Locality unknown. 



Octoher Bd. 



Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Fifteen members present. 



Dr. Leidy observed that the fine specimen of Crj-olite, presented this eveuing 

 by Edmund A. Souder, Esq., was from Ivigtut, Aiksuk Fiord, Greenland, and 

 was a sample fiom a ship load, one of a number of simihir loads imported to this 

 place for the manufacture of soda alum. 



Prof. Carson stated that he recently had an opportunity of ascertaining the 

 plants from which the so-called American Tea is made. The variety called 

 Green Tea is the product of the Ccanoihus Amcricanus ; the Black Tea, the pro- 

 duct of the Lysimaclua quadrifolia. 



. The death of Dr. Francis M. Moore, member of the Academy, was 

 announced. 



October lOth. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



Dr. Leidy made some remarks in relation to the specimens of oolitic phos- 

 phates of lime and alumina, from the Island of Navaspa, W. L, presented this 

 evening. The material, he stated, was imported in large quantities to this 

 place, by Jlessrs. Potts and Klett, and was employed in the manufacture of a 

 fertilizer. Tiie mineral presents several varieties of color, but is especially 

 remarkable for its constitution, resembling that of ordinary oolite. Dr. L. sup- 

 posed that it was probably of organic origin, though the reverse opinion was 

 held by persons of judgment. 



Dr. Leidy further called the attention of the members to a collection of bnnes 

 and stone implements, presented this evening by Mr. Frederick Khtt. The 

 remains were obtained from the Island of Orchilla, W. I., from a deposit of 

 guano, eight inches below the surface. The bones are parts of three human 



* Prcc. Zwl. Soe. ISfit. 201. 



1865.] 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY* OF 



skeletons, together with a few fragments of bird and turtle bones. They are 

 all very friable and appear much eroded on the surface. 



The human bones are all of mature age, and rather small. Most of them are 

 portions of two skeletons, apparently a male and female ; a few belonged to a 

 third skeleton, apparently male. Of portions of three skulls, the most perfect 

 is the greater part of a small cranium, judging from its size, that of a female. 

 The base in advance of the occipital bone is broken away. The cranium is of . 

 the brachycephalic type and bears a near resemblance to that of the ancient 

 Peruvian pattern. It is rounded or o.voidal, with a high compressed occipital 

 region, with a quadrate outline viewed posteriorly, and an ovoidal outline 

 viewed above and laterally. The forehead recedes in a gentle curve from the 

 supra-orbital margins, and the supra-ciliary ridges are feebly developed. The 

 greatest height of the cranium is on a line with the anterior glenoid tubercle 

 and the centre of the sagittal suture. The biparietal diameter is 64 lines; the 

 antero-posterior, from the glabella to the occipital protuberance, 76 lines ; and 

 the height from the anterior margin of the occipital foramen to the centre of 

 the sagittal suture 64 lines. The breadth of the forehead at its narrowest part, 

 just above the external angular processes of the frontal bone, is 44 lines ; the 

 height of the latter bone from the root of the nose to its summit is 49 lines. 



Fragments of the other skulls indicate a larger size but the same form, f 

 except larger superciliary ridges. A fragment of the face of one of them ex- 

 hibits the cheek bones prominent anteriorly, and the orbital and nasal orifices 

 large. 



The jaws are of moderate proportions and orthognathous. The teeth of all 

 three skulls are of the ordinary forms. Those of two of the skulls are much 

 worn. In one of the skulls some of the teeth had been lost during life, and the 

 alveoli obliterated. In a lower jaw containing an entire series of teeth but 

 little worn, the back two molars on one side present on the top of the crown a 

 small cavity, probably the result of caries. 



The remaining human bones consist of a few vertebrce with fragments of 

 others, fragments of two scapulae and innominata, a number of long bones of 

 the extremities, and a few small bones of the feet. 



The collection contains four humeri belonging to three skeletons. Two from 

 one of the larger skeletons measure 12 inches in length from the summit of the 

 head to the edge of the inner articular condj^le, and 2 inches 10 lines in cir- 

 cumference, just below the deltoid insertion. A third humerus, apparently' 

 from the same skeleton as the more perfect cranium before indicated, is of 

 more delicate form, 11|- inches in length, and 2 inches 8 lines in circumference 

 at the middle of the shaft. The fourth specimen, intprraediate in proportions 

 to the others, has lost the head, and is peculiar from the very prominent sharp 

 angular character of the shaft internally. All the humeri present a small in- 

 tercommunication between the fossse above the ulnar trochlea. 



The bones of both fore-arms of a larger and smaller skeleton exhibit the 

 following measurements : larger ulna 1 0^ inches long ; smaller one 9h inches : 

 larger radius 9} inches long ; smaller one 8 inches 8 lines long. 



Of two femora from a larger and a smaller skeleton, both without the head 

 and condyles, one has measured about 17 in?hes in length, the other about 165 

 inches. Thej' are more bowed anteriorly than is usual, and both present a 

 greater degree of prominence of the linea aspera. 



Four tibiffi, without the head, belong to the same skeletons as the femora. 

 The larger, when perfect, measured about 13J inches long from the front of 

 the head to the end of the inner malleolus ; the smaller 13 inches. The former 

 present nothing peculiar, but the latter are remarkable for their laterally com- 

 pressed character; the antero-posterior diameter of the middle of the sbaft or 

 the breadth of the internal surface being 16 lines, while the transverse diame- 

 ter is but 9 lines. 



The stone implements found with the bones are six stone axes, of compressed 

 conical form, with a sharp trenchant basal border and a pointed apex. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



Prof. Gill offered a communication on a new generic type of the family Ta- 

 piridce, of which two skulls, representing adult and very young individuals, 

 are contained in the Museum of the .Smithsonian Institution. The former in- 

 dicates that the species attains a size superior even to that of Tapirus ameri- 

 canits, and that it is consequently much larger than the Tapir of Roulin. Both 

 skulls were obtained, by Dr. W. S. White, on the Isthmus of Panama. The 

 outline of the skull resembles that of the Pinchaque, (T. Roulinii, Fischer, 

 1S29, = T. viUusus, Wagner, = T. andicola, Gloger, 1842, = T. pinchaque, 

 Goudot,) but the new type is distinguished at once by the peculiar develop- 

 ment of the supramaxillaries, which are swollen above and in front of the 

 infraorbital foramina, and tlience extend upwards and backwards into a 

 squamous portion which embraces with its fellow a thick, bony, nasal sep- 

 tum continuous with the vomer, and which is elevated to a line with the 

 forehead, and has a widened upper edge, which still further enlarges behind 

 and embi-aees the nasal bones. The grooves for the muscles of the proboscis 

 are in front straight, entirely confined to the frontals, and do not encroach on 

 the supramaxillaries ; while behind they describe a spiral curve around a pit 

 between the nasals and frontals. Other peculiar characters exist and will be 

 hereafter illustrated. The speoies may be named Elasmorjnathus Bairdii. 



Mr. Glenn, of the Museum of Comparative Anatomy and Zoology of 

 Cambridge, exbibited to the Academy various beautiful microscopic 

 preparations made by him. 



October nth. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



The following papers were offered for publication : 



" Observations on American Fossils, with descriptions of new spe- 

 cies." By T. A. Conrad. 



" Third Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America," 

 and "A Contribution to the knowledge of the Delphinidas." By Prof. 

 E. D. Cope. 



October 2-ith. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



The following papers were offered for publication : 

 " On species of Galeruca and allied genera," and " Prodromus of the 

 Anobiini inhabiting North America." By Dr. John L. LeConte. 

 " Notes of a study of the family Icteridse." By John Cassin. 



October 31s<. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Seventeen members present. 



The resignation of Dr. Band as Recording Secretary was accepted, 

 and Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr., was unanimously elected. 

 1865.] 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Od report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Observations on American FOSSILS, with descriptions of two new species. 

 BY T. A. CONRAD. 



Prof. Ccok, of New Brunswick, N. J., has lately received a few fossils from 

 Ocala, Florida, which prove the limestone of that locality to be of the same age 

 as the Shark River marl of New Jersey. The species consist of Globulus 

 alve.atus, Con., Vcnericardia prima. Con., Dosiniops's alta, Con. These are all 

 Eocene species of California, Maryland and New Jersey. In this rock no 

 doubt occurs Carchurodon angustidens, Agass,, of which I obtained a specimen 

 at Tampa Bay, Florida. 



Among Prof. Cook's fossils are a few species from Jasppr Co.. Miss. The 

 rock of this county, in which the fossils occur, is stated by Hilgard to be of the 

 Jackson Group, (Upper Eocene.) The species are Ontrea Tuomeyi, Con., Mor- 

 tonia turgida, Con., Peclen Foulsoni, Morton, 1\ perplanit:^, Morton, Carcharodon 

 angustidens, Agass., Orhiiolites 31antelli, Morton. The former of these I sup- 

 pose to be the shell which Tuomey found so common in the Basilosaurus lime- 

 stone of Alabama, and which he referred to Pycnodonta vesicularis {Gryphiea 

 mutabilis, Morton.) It is very different, however, and may be distinguished by 

 the following characters : 



OsTREA TooMEYi. — Ovate, sublobalp, lower valve deep, umbo narrow, rough 

 and unequal in surface, with rough lines of growth; not distinctly plicate ; 

 upper valve convex above, slightly convex below ; with a rough and unequal 

 surface; concentric lamination very prominent, when wesithered. 



It differs frorn P. vesicularis especially in wanting the inner plications about 

 the upper submargins of the interior, and the umbo is much narrower ; it is 

 also a true Ostrea, whilst the vesicularis is the type of the genus Fycnodonia. 

 Fischer, and characterizes the cretaceous era. 



Echinodermata. 

 MOP.,TONIA, Desor. 



MoRTONiA TDRGiDA. — Suboval or subpentagonal, swelling medially, with a 

 convex outline ; thin on the submarginal portion of the disc ; ambulacra ellip- 

 tical. 



Allied to 31. Rogersi, but larger, thinner round the central prominence, more 

 elevated medially, the depression about the mouth greater, and the anus 

 smaller. It be.ars about the same relation to Rogersi as Sismendla aha, Con., 

 bears to S. LyeUi, Con. 



Testacea. 

 LIODERMA, Conrad. 



VoLUTiLiTHES LiODBRMA. — This shell has not the characters of Volutilithes, 

 but is covered entirely by enamel, has very oblique coluranellar folds, and an 

 outer lip somewhat emar^inate on the upper part to its juncture with the body 

 whorl; base deepl}' emarginate. 



I have not met with this genus in any American Eocene bed. 



SOLENA, Browne. 



Subgenus Leptosole.v, Conrad. 



SoLBNA BiPUCATA (siliquaria) Con. — Cretaceous. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Third contribution to the HEEPETOLOGY of Tropical America. 



BY E. D. COPE. 

 Alligator h el o i s. 



Muzzle 6| inches from end to lines connecting orbits, 5| inches wide near 

 the middle. Two keels behind and between the ejes, diverging posteriorly, 

 a short and nearly transverse keel in front of the eyes. Upper eye-lid divided 

 by grooves into three areas ; an elevated keel above each ear opening. Two 

 oii)lique rows of elevated horn-like shields on each side of the neck, of rather 

 small size, four on the inner, three on the outer rows ; the third of the inner 

 and second of the outer form, with two large elevated median plates, a trans- 

 verse row. Four very high, short, keel-like postcervicals. Eight rows of 

 dorsal shields, excepting anteriorly where there are six in the first cross-row, 

 and four in the two succeeding ; all are like heads of spikes keeled. Four 

 rows on the tail at its middle. Lateral caiidal shields continuous, abruptly 

 elevated, like the dorsals, subquadrate. Sides with small rounded scales ; 

 width between dorsals and ventrals equal to length of third dorsal cross series. 

 A large row of plates on the inner side of the fore arm. Claws long ; no pal- 

 mar webs. Abdominal rows eleven, each plate with a thin ossification ; two 

 or three large plates in the thoracic cross-row. End of tail little serrate above, 

 scarcely compressed. From end of muzzle to occipital 12 inches ; to between 

 femora 32 inches ; from latter point to end of tail 50 inches ; total 7 feet 10 

 inches. 



Color dark brown with vertical yellow bars on the sides and tail, the former 

 very irregular. Chin, throat, under and upper lips yellow, without spots. 



This rugged looking species belongs to the geniis Alligator, as restricted by 

 Gray, in which the prolongation of the nasal bones separates the external 

 nares, and there is no cross ridge between the orbits. It approaches Jacare 

 in that an external portion of this cross-ridge exists on each side. The hab- 

 itat is not known, as the single specimen I have seen is preserved without 

 label in the Museum of the University of Munich. Throiigh the courtesy of 

 Prof. C. Von Siebold, I was enabled to make the above description. 



I may mention here that the crocodile described by me (Proc. Acad. 1860, 

 550) as Mecistops bat hy r h y n c h u s, is the species identified by Dr. Gray 

 (Catal. Brit. Mus.) with the C. intermedins Graves ; with the limited pub- 

 lished material as a basis, I have reached a diflferent conclusion. 



Clielopus punctularius, Emys punctularia Daud., E, scabra Bell, Gray, 



Linnaeus (fide Agass. 



At first sight, the female of this animal gives the impression of a Testudinid 

 form, with separate caudal plates, but an examination of the phalanges shows 

 their number to be that in the Emydidte, two for the longest digits, (exclusive of 

 ungueal, ) instead of but one remaining upon the extinction of the proximal, 

 as in the former. The proximal phalanx is articulated somewhat, as in Cistudo, 

 but is shorter, and nearly excluded from a serial connection ; its proximal 

 glenoid cavity is superior, and near the distal condyle. The inferior projec- 

 tion of the proximal end gives the foot its angulated outline. The structure 

 is not unlike that in Chelopus muhlenbergii, and there are really more pha- 

 langes than in Cistudo, where the foot is longer ; the external digit behind 

 having two internal phalanges instead of but one. In similar manner the re- 

 duction of the penultimate phalanx in the parallel Sternothaerus, prepares us 

 for its absence in Pelomedusa*, the extreme of the Pieurodera in this direc- 

 tion, and representative of the Testudinidae. Podocnemys and Peltocephalus 

 imitate the Chelouiid» in their overarched temporal fossae, as observed by 

 Wagler, while intermediate forms are more or less similar to some Emydidae. 

 After a consideration of various osteological peculiariiies, I incline to ditfer 



•Which has not, I believe, been preTiously noticetl. 



1865.J 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



from Agassiz, vrlio mingles these types with those of Amvdse, and to regard 

 the Testudinata as primarily divisible into three orders or suborders, Chelo- 

 nii, Amydffi and Pleurodira.* 



The name Chelopus Rafinesque has been recalled by Leconte, as identical 

 with Calemys, Ag., to which Nanemys, Ag., must probably be united, and 

 which have been previously named Geodemmys, by Gray. The present spe- 

 cies is in any case congeneric with G. a n n u 1 a t a, Gray, which is of terres- 

 trial habit. 



Pectoral plates normal, broad, sternum notched behind. Feet very short, 

 clubbed, quite as in the Testudinidse, digits flattened above, last phalanges 

 only distinct, not webbed ; claws short, obtuse. Head very small, covered 

 with a smooth skin, without sub-divisions. Eyes lateral, with a transverse 

 depression between them ; muzzie short, nearly vertical, swollen above, nos- 

 trils anterior. Alveolar plate narrow, without median ridge, cutting edge 

 smooth, neither notched, hooked nor toothed at the symphysis. Mandible 

 broad. A strong zygomatic arch. 



In a 9 specimen the dorjal region is elevated with a trace of a broad keel, 

 as in Cistudo, and the sides are steep. The outline is parallelogrammic, 

 rounded at the extremities. Posterior slope regularly oblique. Margin no- 

 where reliexed, posteriorly weakly serrate. Twenty-five subquadrate margi- 

 nals, the nuchal broad behind. Vertebrals, the four anterior of equal breadth, 

 the anterior pentagonal, the remainder hexagonal. All the plates concentri- 

 cally sulcate, with a slightly rugose areola. Inguinals very small ; sterno- 

 costal bridge very broad. Lobes of sternum short, free outlines,' subquinque- 

 lateral. Large scales all round the forearm and foot, (seven rowi anteriorly, 

 two rows of three each behind,) on the sole and heel only of the hind foot. 

 Above dark brown ; sternum black, bordered with yellow ; remaining under 

 surfaces yellow; forelegs with a black stripe on ou er edge. Top of head 

 black ; a narrow red band from behind and above the eye to the middle of the 

 neck, above and below which are black lines on a yellowish ground ; neck 

 below immaculate. 



This species is more elongate than C. annulatus; anal and gular plates 

 larger; color of head and extremities diflferent. It is nearer the C. areola- 

 tTis,t A. Dum., but is even more testudiniform. The latter is less elevated, 

 the hind feet a little webbed ; the carapace more elongate and narrowed ante- 

 riorly ; the artist has given six vertebral shields ; the anterior lobe of the plas- 

 tron is considerably shorter. 



One 9 specimen in the Smithsonian Museum, obtained in Yucatan by 

 Arthur Schott, naturalist to the Scientific Exploration of that country. 



In a female from Tabasco the frontal depression is less marked and the 

 muzzle not quite so rounded. In a male from the same locality the muzzle 

 is elongate and the vertex and front flat. This is evidently the E. scabra fi- 

 gured by Bell, agreeing with it in the superior position of the head bands, etc., 

 thus differing from the allied dorsalis Gray, Spix. The carapace differs from 

 that of the Yucatan female in sexual characters, as the revolution of the 

 margins, but has a very small nuchal shield, and the first vertebral prolonged 

 between the marginals, while the former exhibits a short broad shield. This 

 is the only difference which cannot be regarded as sexual. 



This, with the following seven species of Tortoises below enumerated, was 

 presented to the Smithsonian Institution by Dr. Berendt, who. during a resi- 

 dence at Tabasco, Mexico, devoted much attention to the natural products and 

 features of the country. He has furnished me with the following notes on the 

 Testudinata. The specimens are complete and of adult age. 



The Chelopus punctularius is the Mojina of the natives of Tabasco. 



^' M)jina is often found tame in the houses, and attaches itself very much 

 to men. The very same specimen which I brought living with me, and left 



•■Vid. Proc. Acad. Phil., 1864,181. 



t Suspected by Agasi<iz to be the Malacoelemmys poIaBtriB of Korth America. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



witli Prof. Baird, I got from an Indian woman, living in a but on the Tabas- 

 quillo River. Tasked for turtles, wlien she said she had one, but it was in 

 the woods behind the house. She went to the door and called, 'M china, 

 Mohina !' and the turtle came out of the bushes to the house, and was sold to 

 me. I could never induce her to eat any thing for more than three months, 

 until I gave her, in Washington, some cherries, which she tried, and after- 

 wards commenced to eat. It was told me that the Mojina eats animal food (?)" 



Ptychemys or n at a, Agass. et Bell. 



" Hicotea " of the natives. 

 Dermatemys mavei. Gray. " Emys herardi, Dum." 



Two specimens, eighteen inches long, of this remarkable species, agreeing 

 with Gray's figure, except in the single gnlar plate, and presence of a minute 

 gemmiform intergular plate, as in some Hydraspididw. This is the first in- 

 stance of the kind among the Emydidse, of which family this species presents 

 every character. Called Tortuga blanca. 



" Hicotea and Tortuga live on vegetable food, leaves, grass, and, principally, 

 the fruits of Tobillo (Spondias mombin) and Amate (a Ficus.) At the time 

 the amate is ripe, the tortugas are caught easily, and in numbers, under these 

 trees. They distinguish in Tabasco three kinds of Tortuga : T. blanca, or del 

 rio, (white or river turtle;) T. uegra, or de popal, (black or swamp turtle,) 

 perhaps the same ; and T. de Chilapa, (a village,) or de Chichicaste, (a very 

 bitter Euphorbiarfe, ) which I have not seen. It is not eaten, as the former 

 two are ; the flesh is bitter and of a bug smell ; their form is said to be not 

 elliptic, but nearly round. It is believed that they feed on chichieaste. 

 (Chichic is Mexican, and means hitter. y 



Prof. Poey has sent me from Cuba some living specimens of the Ptychemys 

 decussata, {Emys rugosa, Sagra, and Tracheinys rugosa, Agass. = 9 fid® Poey.) 

 whose habits contrast with those of the P. ornata and Dermatemys. They 

 devour flesh eagerly, but reject bread and vegetables, unless soaked with fresh 

 gravy, and dislike apples, the only fruit ofi'ered them. 



Chelydra sp. Called Chiquihuaii. 



This variety is well marked, but that it will eventually be found to be a 

 different species seems very doubtful. In the single individual at my disposal, 

 the only peculiarity observable in tlie shell is the broader and shorter poste- 

 rior sternal lobe, which scarcely measures three-quarters the anterior, and has 

 not the gradual acumination of the ordinary variety. The axillary plates are 

 only distinguishable upon close examination, owing to the obsolescence of the 

 sutures. The lateral processes of the pubis are more than double the length of 

 the median ; in a specimen of the northern variety, the former are only a 

 little longer than the latter. The skin of the occiput and neck, instead of 1)eing 

 tuberculate, is furnished with numerous flexible dermal appendages, and one 

 side or angle of the warts on other regions of the skin is free. The large 

 scales of the row ou the outside of the antebrachium are larger and almost 

 entirely free, forming a broad serrate dermal border. The caudal crest is not 

 so elevated as in the common form, but one large process being higher than 

 long. The color of all the under surfaces is very light. 



Claudius a n g u s t a t u s, sp. nov. 



Character genf-ricus. A single row of marginal plates. Plastron small, cru- 

 ciform, solid ; hyo- and hyposternal bones connate, forming an exceedingly 

 slender bridge, which connects the plastron with the carapace, and is not cov- 

 ered by a corneous axillary plate, but by thin epidermis. No inguinal or gular 

 plates; anals united. Carapace completely ossified, extending much beyond 

 plastron anteriorly and posteriorly, elevated and narrowed in front, neither 

 dilated nor steeply descending behind ; vertebral line nearly plane. Verte- 

 bral neural segments eight, the last pair of costals meeting ou the median 

 line, but separated from the small posterior marginal by a large penultimate 



1865] 




183 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



shield. Anterior in contact with a very large anterior marginal, mating to- 

 gether eleven vertebrals in an interrupted series. 



This interesting genus is nearest to Chelydra, though widely diflferent ; its 

 general appearance and interrupted vertebral series approximate it to the Cino- 

 sternidae, especially Aromochelys and Staurotypus s a IV i n i i,* Gray. Indeed 

 it only differs from the latter species in the immobility of the anterior lobe of 

 the sternum, and absence of inguinal and axillary plates, as well as the 

 presence of the mesosternal bone, if the latter belong truly to the Cinosterni- 

 daef. Claudius must be placed on the confines of the Emydidsc in this direc- 

 tion, as Chelopias marks the extreme in the other. 



Character specificus. — Marginal scales all very narrow, especially anteriorly; 

 four lateral grooved ; nuchal very small, transverse. Anterior vertebral longest, 

 broad as long, posteriorly rounded, acuminate, in contact with second marginal. 

 Third and fourth vertebrals broader tlian long ; last narrowed above. Anterior 

 costal 11 the length of the third. Epidermoid layer rather thin, concentrically 

 ridged anteriorly and externally on the plates ; a median and lateral keel on 

 each side, all quite weak. Sternum rounded in front, acute behind, equal 

 portions before and behind the abdoraino preanal suture. Abdominal three- 

 tifths of pectoro-gular plate. Above blackish brown, the plates paler medially, 

 below yellow, unspotted. 



The head is disproportionately large, and of an elongate form, with narrow 

 postorbital arches ; baove plane, covered with a soft skin, except an oval 

 plate of horn on the top of the nose. Maxillary sheath hooked in front, and 

 with a sharp tooth below the anterior margin of each orbit ; edges sharp. 

 Mandible with a remarkably long symphyseal hook, which is received into a 

 correspondingly deep premaxillary pit. A pair of barbels ; skin of neck with- 

 out warts or appendages. Toes and claws rather slender, very fully webbed ; 

 the forearm with three anterior curved corneous ridges, and the heel with 

 four series. Tail (of $ ) very short, without terminal claw, and with a double 

 dorsal row of skin warts. 



Color blackish plumbeous, the inferior surfaces paler. 



Called Talmame by the natives. Museum Smithsonian, 6.518. 



" Talmariie lives in swamps, and digs itself in to a depth of two and three 

 feet ; eats small fish, crustace ms, snails, etc. Animal food I have found also 

 iu the stomach of Chiquihuau, (entire ampuUarias,) Huau and Pochitoque." 



Staurotypus triporcatus, Wagl. 



Called by the natives Huau. 



Travellers relate that the alligator is often killed by a turtle, which he 

 swallows alive, and which devours the intestines to get out. Heller (Reisen 

 in Mexi'.o, p. 313) says that he has seen a living turtle " of the genus Cynixis" 

 within a fresh-killed alligator. Waldeck, whose imaginatory power exceeds 

 far his observatory, says (in Voyage pittoresque) that he has found in every 

 killed alligator's stomach a living " Ticotea or potchitoque, which is the same 

 known in Egypt, (thirse,) and also the Testudo triunguis of Torskiil." (!) 



I have it from a number of different and reliable persons that they have 

 witnessed the fact ; either found a living Huau in the body of a dead alligator, 

 who was supposed to have run on shore and died, or even seen the Huau just 

 breaking out of the dead body of the alligator ; but never any other kind of 

 turtles ; only the Huau. 



Huau has two very distinct voices ; one imitated in the name, a strong 

 expiration in the given vowels, not intoned with the larynx, but only with the 

 fauces and mouth, — an:l a squeak, like that of dry carriage wheels or of a 

 large door. The first seems an expression of anger, when teased ; the second 

 perhaps a call, as I heard them often when at night ; once alone in a corner 

 of my hou-e ; never when male and female were near each other. 



* Proc. ZooL See, Lund., lSt4. 1-^7. 



t Vid. he Coate'9 system, Vr. A. N. S., "!354, 182. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Moliina has a soft, melancliolj* piping, which is rather touchiug when they 

 are killed." 



Cinosternuin leiic os t o m urn, Duraeril. Arch, du Mus. 18, p. 



The number of specimens of this species would indicate it to be the most 

 abundant. Called Pochitoque camatotl. The Mus. Smithsonian possesses 

 also a specimen from Turbo, iu New Grenada, from the Michler Surveying Expe- 

 dition. 



Cinosternum bereudtianu ra, sp. nor. 



Most nearly allied to the preceding, agreeing with it in the contracted 

 rounded outline of the posterior lobe of the sternum, which fits the carapace 

 accurately, and is without eniargination, in the large size of the caudal mar- 

 ginals, and the absence of lateral dorsal keels. The carapace, though more 

 or less keeled, is more depressed th in in leucostomum, the outline rising 

 behind, and the fixed plastron has greater longitudinal breadth. 



leucostomum. berendtianum. 



Shorter than front, three- Middle plastron ; Longer than front, four- 



fifths of hind lobe. fifths of hind lobe. 



Rounded, without external Marginal hones ; Strongly angnlated. 



angle ; a groove near 



upper margin. First vertebral plate; Lanceolate rarely toucb- 



Equilateral, bordering sec- ing second marginal. 



ond marginal. 



Gidar plate; Two-fifths longer than 



Long as remaining me- remaining median su- 



dian suture. ture. 



Broader. Last vertebral ; Narrower. 



The shell is a very dark brown above ; below, a dark brownish yellow, with 

 reddish stains on the sutures, or over portions not touching the ground. 

 Length of carapace, 3 in. 9 1.; of plastron, 3 in. 6 1. ; breadth of carapace, 

 2 in. 6 1 Mus. Smithsonian, No. 6,517. 



Called in Tabasco, Pochitoque jaquactero and negro. 



" I have heard of a third Cinosternum in Tabasco called Pochitoque huan- 

 gito, (the little huau, ) which is said to be smaller than the leueosternum, and 

 has the same three longitudinal keels as the Huau on theupper shell. " Berendt. 

 Probably the C. shavianum (mericainim, Lee, fide Agass.) 



*' Tortugas, Hicoteas, Mohinas and Pochitoques are generally eaten in Ta- 

 basco. The Staurotypus is consi lered good enough for the Indians, who like 

 it much, but it is despised by the whites. I had it cooked, and found it better 

 than the Derm itemys. The flesh is reddish when boiled. 



" I was told that, in Tabasco, Staurotypus and Dermatemys lay their eggs in. 

 November and December ; Hicotea in February ; Pochitoque in March and April. 



" Staurotypus lays 10 te 30 eggs ; Dermatemys, 20 eggs ; Hicotea, 12 to U> 

 eggs ; the Mojina, Pochitoque and Talmame, only a few." 



On the etymological character of the native names, Dr. Berendt states as 

 follows : — 



"In Tabasco come together three languages of entirely diflferent families ; 

 the principal language is the Chontal, closely related to the Tzendal (Chiapas) 

 and belonging to the Mai/afainlli/, — the Zoque to the South, and the Mexican 

 to the West. We find, consequently, a great mixture of languages iu names 

 of natural olyects ; besides those names introduced by the Spaniards, either 

 from the Spanish or from the West Indian language, (Haiti, Cuba, ) and ap- 

 plied to the same or similar things found on the continent. 



'^ H'lan is Maya. (' Uauu — ano^ ija dpagtys b tortugas de agua dulce! — freshr 

 water turtles.) 



" Chiquihuau. Chic is miya, —means flea, (jumping Huau.) 



1865.] 13 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



'^ Bi'cotea or Fcotea is 'turtle' in the Haitian language. 



" Toriuf/a hlanca, white turtle, (is Spanish.) 



" Pocldtoque or Puchitcqne seems Maya. Puch is bark, and tol: flint. 



^^ P. Jaguactero. Jaguacte is a palm tree, (a Bactris,) standing in thick 

 groups in low swamps, which are called jaguacteros. 



" P. chato. Chato is Spanish ; means short or upturned nose. 



" Taliiiame, perhaps Talmeme, (a corraption of Tlameme, a Mexican word,) 

 means ' carriers.' 



" Mohina is Spanish, (anger, sadness,) though I do not see why applied to 

 this turtle." 



Pliocercus d i m i d i a t u s. 



Tail two-fifths the total length, urosteges 120, nearly equal in number to the 

 ga;trosteges — 127. Scales in seventeen rows, the median scarcely narrowed. 

 Head very distinct, flat, muzzle truncate. Top of rostral shield round, curved 

 back on the upper plane. Internasals very small ; lateral borders of frontal 

 (vertical) nearly parallel, a little shorter than anterior. Occipitals large. 

 Temporals, 1 very narrow, 1 pentagonal, 2. Loreal nearly a rhomb lower 

 than postnasal ; preoculars three, upper not reaching frontal, lower cut from 

 labial. Superior labials nine, fifth and sixth entering orbit: postoculars two, 

 superior in contact with occipital only, ^'ine inferior labials, sixth largest ; 

 geaeials equal. Teeth equal. 



Red, crossed by fourteen black rings on the body, and eight and a part on 

 the tail. These are separated by nearly equal spaces below, and rather nar- 

 rower (3.T scales) above. A black space involves the nape to the tips of the 

 occipital and last upper labial plates and all the last lower, and does not cross 

 the jugulum. The remainder of the head above black, except the anterior 

 part ot the frontal and the fir^t second and third superior labial shields. 

 Lower labials bordering anterior geneials, with mental, black. 



From Arriba, Costa Rica. Sent by Chas. N. Riotte, correspondent of the 

 Smithsonian Institute : Mus. No. 6,363. 



The species of this genus now known are four, — viz. : 



Two pra^ oculars ; dentition isodont ; scutella near 143-p85. Color of Elaps 

 lemniscatus type, red with black wings in threes separated by yellow. 

 P. elapoides m. Elapochrus deppei Pet. Liophi^ (Cosmiosophis) tricinc- 



ius Jan. 



One preocular; dentition diacranterian ; si-utella near 1304-97. Color of 

 the E. corallinus type, red with simple numerous black rings. 

 P. aequalis Salvin. P. Z. S., 1863. 



Three prseoculars ; dentition isodont; scutella 129+120; color of the E. 

 type, few approximated black rings on red ground. 

 P. dimidiatus m. 



Two praeoculars ; dentition isodont ; scutella near 13S+46. Color of the E. 

 langsdoiifii type ; broad contiguous equal black rings, leaving but lines of the 

 red ground. 

 P. euryzonus m. Liophis (^Coimiosophis) "plendens Jan. Coronellidse 



Arch. p. 1. Zoologia Modena, 1863. 



Tropidoclonium storerioides. 



Size small, form not slender, muzzle obtuse ; in general similar to Storeria 

 d e k a y i. Scales fifteen rows ; the inferior row only smooth, much broader 

 than the others, whicb are narrowest medially. Scales of tail strongly 

 keeled, in six rows. Nasals not elongate, usually entirely, sometimes half 

 separated. Loreal trapezoidal toi^ching the decurved postfrontals by the supe- 

 rior angle only, its hinder suture shortest, sometimes entering the orbit pos- 

 teriorly between the two preoculars ; of the latter, the inferior is the smaller. 

 Postoculars three ; in contact with one broad temporal, which separates two 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



labials from the occipital. Superior labials seven, or six from confluence of 

 two, sometimes of the third and fourth which bound the orbit. Inferior 

 labials seven, fourth largest ; postgeneial equal pregeueial, separated by 

 scales. Vertical shield longer than broad, outlines straight, posterior angle 

 less than right ; occipitals nearly as long as from their border to rostrals, 

 emarginate behind. Gastrosteges 12(5, 1 — 1 urosteges forty pair. Color olive 

 brown (one specimen light brown), with dense, minute punctulations above 

 and below, and about fifty-four light-edged black cross-bars extending over 

 six rows of scales, alternating with shorter ones on the sides : both are 

 broken into spots on the neck, where there is a large postoccipital blotch on 

 each side. 



Length of rictus of mouth, 4 lines ; of head and body, 10 inches, 9 lines ; 

 of tail, 2 inches, 8 lines. 



Habitat. — Mexican plateau between the eastern range and the valley of 

 Mexico. Sent by our correspondent, Dr. Ch. Sartorius. 



Ancistrodon bilineatus, Grthr. Ann. Mag. N. H. 1863, 364. 



Fine specimens in Mus. Smithsonian from Western Mexico, from Guadal- 

 axara and Colima, from our correspondents, I. I Major and Jno. Xantus. The 

 species nearest our A. contortrix. 



Crotalus r a v u s. 



Twenty-three rows of scales, all keeled, except the exterior ; keels of the 

 median thick. Head broad in front, canthus rostralis and muzzle rounded, 

 the latter elevated. Rostral abruptly acuminate ; both pairs of frontals 

 broader than long ; occipitals well developed, their outer portion cut off 

 wholly or in part by a suture. Temporal scales all smooth. Pit separated 

 from labials by a series of small scales ; one row between the former and 

 orbit. Superior labials eleven and twelve, last eight nearly equal; in- 

 feriors, twelve and thirteen ; gastrosteges, 147, urosteges, 26. Color yel- 

 lowish brown, with from twenty-six to thirty-one elongate deep brown 

 narrow parallelogramic spots, four scales long to live wi'ie, and a series 

 of as many short transverse bars on the sides opposite them : a series of 

 thrice the number of small spots on the inferior rows of scales. Belly yel- 

 lowish, thickly varied with blaekish brown. Tail yellow brown, with but 

 two proximal cross-bars. Head pale, similar, without spots or marks, except 

 a minute punctulation. A brown anteriorly furcate nuchal spot. 



Length of rictus, 5.7 lines ; of head and body, 7 inches, 6 lines ; of tail, 

 10.2 lines. 



Hab. — Table land of Mexico. 



The specimens in the Mus. Smithsonian are young : the species is, no 

 doubt, small, and nearer C. miliarias than any other. • 



Caudisona polysticta. 



The species which I call by this name reminds, at first sight, of the 

 Bothriuchis m e x i c a n u s, and the head markings resemble those of the 

 South American Trigonocephalus a 1 1 e r n a t u s. The pattern of color is, how- 

 ever, more broken than in either, and represents a new type in tlie genus. 



The superciliary plates are normal ; the rostral higher than broad, acu- 

 minate ; two marginals between them, the anterior pair linear , separated by a 

 small plate, the posterior broad oval, separated by two rather narrow plates. 

 Three between the superciliaries, the outer large. Two nasals, two loreals, 

 one above the other. Superior labials fourteen, separated from the orbit by 

 two rows of smooth scales ; inferior labials thirteen ; temporals smooth. 

 Rows of scales twenty-seven, all keeled, except the outer two. Gastrostega 

 123, urostega 19, the first only divided. Crepitaculum slender, acuminate, 

 delicate for the size of the animal ; joints eleven. The color above is later- 

 ally gray brown, medially yellowish brown, marked by seven longitudinal 



1865.] 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



series of brownish black spots. These alternate ; the inferior involves the 

 tips of the gastrosteges ; the median embraces the largest spots, eight and 

 nine scales wide, which are occasionally subdivided, the halves alternating. 

 The tail is brown, crossed by three pairs of dark brown bars. Lips pale, 

 with a spot below the pit, and one from behind the eye to near the canthus 

 of the mouth. A dark band convex forwards extends between the eyes, and 

 is continued below the eye nearly to the labial border. A pair of blackish 

 bands form a V-shaped figure, the limbs diverging over the temples, each 

 followed by a spot : two small round spots in the angle of the V, and a 

 broad divergent band from the occiput on each side of the nape. Below pale, 

 each scute with a broad basal border of blackish spots and punctulations. 



Length of rictus of mouth, 11 lines ; breadth between eyes 5 lines ; length 

 of tail, 15 J lines ; of rattle, 13 lines ; total, 23 inches, 9 lines. 



Hahiiat. — Table Land, Mexico. 



In the related C. triseriata, there are twenty-three rows of scales, a 

 broader front, and different coloration. 



Laemanctus alticoronatus. 



Posterior outline of cephalic casque nearly vertical; its lateral borders 

 ascending from the parietal plane, and furnished with six corneous processes 

 or horn-like scales on each side (each once or twice constricted). Two scales 

 on canthus rostralis ; two between them and labials, and two between nasal 

 and orbit. Nine upper labials, ten lower, infralabials broad as long, nearly 

 smooth. Four between second labials. Scales all keeled, fifty-one in a ring 

 round the body, dorsals a little larger than laterals, scarcely smaller than 

 ventrals. A few elevated vertebral scales on nape and interscapular region, 

 the latter equal dorsal scales ; no further crest. Four pairs of supranasal 

 plates, posterior largest, lateral parietal much larger than median. Forelimb 

 extends from wrist to nostril ; posterior limb heel to neck fold. General 

 color chestnut, with five deep brown dorsal cross-bars (last sacral) and a nar- 

 row yellow band from loreal region to groin, bounded above, from orbit to 

 tympanum, by black and chestnut. Muzzle and front above, with lower sur- 

 faces "emerald to pale malachite" (Schott), limbs scarcely banded, darker ; 

 lumbar and inguinal regions yellow. 



End of muzzle to end of casque, 14.2 lines; anterior limb, 22.8 lines; 

 axilla, 18.8 lines ; throat to top of casque. 9.2 lines ; vent, 3 inches, 4.5 lines; 

 vent to end of tail, 11 inches, 8 lines ; vent to end of hind limb, 3 inches, 

 4.5 lines. 



j^aiiia^— Yucatan, near Merida. Collected by Arthur Schott, naturalist 

 of the Comision Cienlifica de Yucatan, under authority of D. Jose Salazar 

 Starregui, Governor of that country. 



Called Yaxtoloc Mava, Coll. No. 308. Nearly allied to L. s e r r a t u s. 

 Cope, Pr. A. N. S., 1864, p. 176. 



Sphaerodactylus g 1 a u o u s. 



Dorsal scales very small, but flat, rounded, smooth ; about ninety series 

 round the body ; abdominals larger, rounded, about forty-four rows from 

 vent to axilla, continued larger on under side of tail (not reproduced in this 

 specimen). Labials ^, three scales bordering mental. Supraorbital mucro 

 present, orbit equal from its border to, or little beyond, nostril ; muzzle and 

 front gradually acuminate. Auricular meatus smaller than digital pallette. 

 Above light brown, "greenish stone color or glaucus " in life, with minute 

 paler spots and dark vermiculations ; below whitish. Tail in life orange, 

 more intense toward tip ; in spirits with two yellow black-edged spots near 

 tip, and one on each side the origin. Limbs and digits annulated with yel- 

 low, black bordered. 



Muzzle to axilla, 5.5 lines ; Muzzle to vent, 11.6 lines ; vent to end of tail, 



10.4 lines. ^ .. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



Habitat. — Near Merida, Yucatan. Coll. Comision Cientifica under Arthur 

 Schott. 



Allied to the cinereus and sputator, and somewhat intermediate be- 

 tween them. The second from Mexico. 



Pharyngodon petasatus. 



Char. Gen. — Fam. HylidaB. No fronto-parietal fontanelle ; prefontals exten- 

 sively in contact anteriorly, developed into an angulated preorbital crest. 

 Corium entirely involved in the ossification of the cranial bones, to which 

 the epidermis is closely adherent. Tympanum distinct ; vomerine teeth pre- 

 sent, a longitudinal series on the parasp/ienoid bone, tongue round, but little 

 free. Digits normal, the posterior webbed. 



This genus is strictly a member of the Hylidae, as lately defined,* and 

 allied to Trachycephalus ; the character in which it diflfers from that genus, 

 and which is unique in the whole order of Salientia, is the presence of a 

 longitudinal series of teeth on the parasphenoid bone. If this point is unique, 

 the physiognomy of the animal is equally so, its profile resembling tbat of Aeto- 

 batis, or some allied genus, more than anything else in the animal kingdom. 

 This results from the extraordinary development of the canthus rostralis, 

 which forms a transverse wing entirely across the muzzle, and prominent 

 angular process in front of and continuous with the superciliary border ; and 

 the more excessive prolongation of the angular outline of the maxillary and 

 premaxillary bones. The latter projects in a more convex arc than the out- 

 line of the former, and as far beyond the mouth as the external nostrils ar-e 

 in advance of a line connecting the orbits. The mouth is, therefore, very in- 

 ferior, its margin being a little behind the opening of the aforesaid nares. 

 The outlines of the muzzle are recurved and serrate, leaving the loreal region 

 as a gutter, overhung by the canthus rostralis. Straight sutural grooves out- 

 line all the bones of the cranium, as in Trachycephalus scutigerus, 

 leaving the ethmoid plate nearly an obliquely placed square. The border of 

 the cranial casque is a straight line just behind the tympanum, elevated, con- 

 tinuous, and serrulate. A strong ridge passes over the tympanum and joins 

 on bordering the orbit. Supercilia much elevated, eyes large, directed 

 nearly forward, protected behind by a large development of the united 

 palpebra;, the opening about three times the size of the tympanum. Between 

 supercilia proper eqixal from occipital crest to union of canthus rostralis ; 

 from latter to premaxillary border, one half the same. Breadth between 

 maxillary ridges at canthus oris less than length of casque, and three and a 

 half times into total length. Vomerine teeth in two rounded ridges nearer 

 each other than to the nares, and behind posterior border of latter. Para- 

 sphenoid series simple, as long as from nostrils to premaxillary border. 



Abdominal areolae wanting on breast and gula, but extending on pre- 

 brachial and lateral regions, otherwise nearly smooth. Tibia half the length 

 to orbit ; foot rather short, digits stout, web measuring three-fifths of the 

 longest. Fingers free, stout ; dilations not broad. 



Above ashen olive, with many irregular brown spots ; external surfaces of 

 limbs barred with the same. Head blackish, with white punctulations. 

 Below uniform ashy white. 



Length of cranium, 12.1 lines ; of body from casque, 24.2 lines ; from ax- 

 illa to wrist, 10.1 lines; of hand, 8 lines ; femur, 12 lines ; tibia, 14 lines ; 

 foot, 19.3 lines. 



Uabitat. — The vicinity of Merida, Yucatan. A 9 specimen. No. 363 of 

 the collection made by authority of Jose Salazar Starregui, Governor of 

 Yucatan, by Arthur Schott, Naturalist of the Comision Cientifica de Yucatan, 



According to the notes of Arthur Schott, this animal was taken from a hole 

 in the rocky wall of the Cenote Famanche, on the new road to Progreso. 



* Nat. Uist. Iteview, Lon<lon, 1865, p. 108. 

 1865.] 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



It is interesting that an animal living in rocky situations should present 

 Buch a singular cranial bony development: this, in connection. with its colors, 

 no doubt, aids especially in concealment, and is another instance of the Ci ea- 

 ter's bountiful care for his humblest creatures. 



It will be useful here to present a synopsis of the genera of Hylidse. 



L No Frontoparietal fontanelle. 



a. Cranium above connate with a dermoossifica- 

 tion ; prefrontals in contact. 



A series of parasphenoid teeth ; no dorsal pouch.; Pharyngodon. 



No parasphenoid teeth ; no dorsal pouch Trachycephalus. 



No parasphenoids, a dorsal dermal pouch Opisthodelphys. 



eta. No cranial dermoossification. 

 /5. A dorsal dermal pouch. 



Toes slightly webbed Nototrema. 



/?/?. No dorsal pouch. 



y. Prefrontals united by suture. 



Two longitudinal cranial carinse ; no gland Osteocephalus. 



No carin.e ; a parotoid covering head and back Scytopis. 



No carinse or parotoid; prefontals large Acrodytes. 



yy. Prefrontals small, separated by ethmoid. 



No keels or glands ; ?a coccygeal diapopbysis Dryomelictes, (^.n.* 



II. A frontoparietal fontanelle. 



a. Posterior digits free, opposable, two and three. 



Parotoid glands present ; tongue elongate free Phyllomedusa. 



aa. Posterior digits on same plane not opposable. 

 /?. Posterior digits webbed, prefrontals separated 



by the large ethmoid plate. 

 y. Brain case and fontanelle broad ; superior eth- 

 moid plate broad ; inner finger not opposite to • 

 the others. 

 S. An elongate acuminate flat postorbital process 

 of the frontoparietal bone. 



Form stout Smilisca,t g. n. 



(feT. No postorbital process. 

 Tongue elongate, extensively free ; inferior palpebra 



reticulate with white fibres : vomerine teeth Agalychnis. 



Tongue short, attached or little free; palpebra usually 



transparent; vomerine teeth Hyla. 



Tongue short ; palpebra transparent ; no vomerine 



teeth Hylella. 



Tongue extensively free ; dilatations minute, palmatiou 



extensive behind ; vomerine teeth Acris. 



yy. Brain case and ethmoid elongate, fontanelle 

 narrow ; inner finger opposed to the others. 



Tongue slightly free Litoria. 



/?/?. Posterior digits free. 

 Superior ethmoid plate osseous ; prefrontal bones sepa- 



j.-ited Chorophilus. 



Superior ethmoid plate cartilaginous, the prefrontals 



developed, in contact medially Thoropa. 



Hyla gracilipes. 



Tonvue elongate, free one-third its length. Inferior palpebra not veined. 



• TypeHvla aurantiaca auctorum. 



t S d a u 1 i u i a, sp. nor. This ppeciea I only know from a skeleton in the private anatomical 

 muaeum of Hyrtl, frufessor of Anatomy in the Cniversity of Vienna. The head is a little broader 

 than long ; the interorhital width greater than from external nares to or>.ii ; vomerine teeth in 

 short transverse series; general form similar to the Acrodytes ve nu 1 os us. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Fingers elougate, free ; toes webbed at bnse only, remarkably elongate, tbe 

 foot from tarsus a Utile longer than tbe tibia, and equal from asi.la to middle 

 of origin of femur, the width of head. Head fiat, longer than broad, eyes 

 little prominent, one-half tympanic disc ; canthus rostralis little concave. 

 Body elongate, skin entirely smooth above : vomerine teeth in two almost 

 connate fasciculi which present a convexity to each narial opening and pos- 

 terioily where they are opposite the hind oitline of the latter. Sacral 

 diapophyses much dilated, presenting a prolongation posteriorly. 



L'eugth of fore limb, 9 lines ; posterior limb, 24.4 lines ; from end of muz- 

 zle to behind tympanum, 4.4 lines ; muzzle to vent, 15 lines. 



Color above, bright leek green, with a brown band from the nostril tbroiigh 

 the tympanum to the middle of the side, white-bordered above ; and a short 

 band on earb side the ilium, white-bordered. Femora not spotted behind ; 

 limbs not cross-banded. Upper lip with a brown border ; its green becoming 

 yellow under the tympanum. Below whitish. 



Habitat. — Mexican table land, north-east of city of Mexico. 



A species near in technical characters to tbe ewingii, regilla, and 

 squirella, but abundantly distinct from all, in its sacrum, feet, head, etc. 



Hyla stau fferi. 



Tongue rounded, a border only free ; a larg^' gular vocal vesicle ; vomerine 

 teetb in fasciculi between nares, which are a little larger than the choanae. 

 Digits all short, with pallettes large ; the anterior free, the posterior short, 

 the palmatiou measuring balf the length of tbe longest digit. The heel 

 extends to in front of orbit. Head plane, depressed, muzzle very prominent, 

 rounded. Outline from above elongate oval, canthus rostralis weak, straight, 

 lores flat, oblique. 



Length of orbit equals frontal width. Skin of sides rugulose, otherwise 

 smooth above ; no appendages. Muzzle to rictus oris, 4 lines ; anterior limb, 

 G.4 lines ; muzzle to vent, 11.7 lines ; posterior limb, 17.1 lines. 



Color above dark olive, with a short longitudinal black bar over each scapula, 

 aud one from eye to eye, with a trace along the coccyx. Below yellowish, 

 deeper to brown on the extremities. Upper lip olive, sending a pale line to 

 near axilla, sides minutely varied with dorsal and ventral tints. 



Habitat. — Orizava, Mexico. Obtained by Prof. T. Sumichrast. 



The species sent from Orizava by Prof. Sumichrast to the Smithsonian 

 Institution are : — 



Spelerpes chiropterus. Corythaeolus cristatus ( T/n/^anodacty- 



Geotriton carbonarius. lus, Gray, Dracontura, Hallow.) 



Hyla baudinii. Gerrhonotus gramineus. 



Hyla staufferi. Diploglossus steindacbueri. 



Hyla miotympanum. Oligosoma gemmingeri. 



Hylodes conspicillatus. Catostoma semidoliatum. 



Bufo valliceps {ncbulifer, Gird.) Kinia collaris. 



Raua sp. Niuia diademata. 



Sceloporus. Coniophanes fissidens {Glaj hyrophis 



Sceloporus. la eralis, Jan Elenco.) 



Sceloporus. Spilotes poecilonotus. 



Anolis nanno les. Atropus uudulatus. 



Hemidactylinm p a c i f i c u m. 



This species is of some interest, inasmuch as our native species of this genus 

 has hitherto been the only representative of its form. It differs from this in its 

 uniform brown color above and below, and in some more important points. 

 Vertebr;e and costal fobls between axilla and groin, seventeen, the latter not 

 prolonged dorsally, as in the s c u t at u m. Head oval, elongate, lip rounded, 

 eyes large, prominent, 1 ngitudinal diameter longer than length of muzzle. 

 Muzzle to humerus, half length from latter to groin. Tougue elongate oval ; 



1865.] 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



sphenoid teeth approaching near to the short oblique series of vomerines. 

 Fore limh to orhit, hind limb scarcely longer, reaching the eight fold from 

 behind. The inner digit on both extremities is so short, as to render the 

 numbers almost 3-3. Tail elongate, slender subcylindrical. Gular fold 

 represented by a line. 



Length of head to angle of month 2-5 lines. Breadth of head behind eyes 

 2 lines. From muzzle to humerus 5 lines. From muzzle to groin 16-5 lines. 

 Length of tail 17 lines. Length of posterior limb 35. 



Hab. — Santa Barbara, on the coast of Southern California. Sent to the 

 Smithsonian Institution by Dr. Hays. 



Spelerpes cephalicus. 



With the present addition to the Batrachian fauna of tropical America, it is 

 appropriate to enumerate the salamanders so far known from this region. They 

 are mostly natives of the mountainous sections, or of that elevated plateau 

 which presents us with most of the northern forms found in Mexico. 

 Geotriton* carbonarius, Cope, Pr. Ac. Kat. Sci., Phil., 1860, 373. North 



Eastern Mexico. 

 Geotriton adspersus, Peters, Monatsber. Acad. Berlin, 1863, 468. Bogota, 



New Grenada. 

 Spelerpes cephalicus, sp. nov. Table Land, Mexico. 

 Spelerpes orculus, sp. nov. Table Laud, Mexico. 

 Spelerpes chiropterus. Cope, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci., ISoS, p. 54. North Eastern 



Mexico. 

 Spelerpes bellii. Gray, Cat. Brit. Mas., 4o, 1850. Cope, 1. c, 1S60, 372. 



North Eastern Mexico. 

 Spelerpes lineolus, sp. nov. Table Land, Mexico. 



The form of the present species is more that of Amblystoma o p a c n m, and 

 is the shortest and stoutest seen in the genus. Muzzle rounded, truncate, 

 with obtuse angles at the nares, its length from line connecting anterior can- 

 thus oculorum equal length of eye. Distance between these canthus equal 

 from hinder canthus to nares. Breadth behind orbits equal length of tibia 

 and foot. Muzzle to axilla equal | distance from axilla to groin. Costal folds 

 (i. e., dorsal and lumbar vertebrae) eleven. Tail swollen, little compressed, 

 constricted at base. Posterior limb stout, extending to sixth fold from be- 

 hind ; toes flat, depressed, margined, inner very rudimental. Inner and 

 outer digit of anterior limb similar ; the longest extend to the middle of 

 the orbit. Series of vomerine teeth nearly straight, not in contact. A post 

 gular fold. Skin everywhere finely wrinkled. Color dull black, paler on the 

 sides ; lips and gular region minutely marbled with ashen. 



Length of rictus oris 2'75 lines. Length to axilla 6-8 lines. Length to 

 groin 16 Hues. Length of tail 15 lines. Length of hind limb 5*2 lines. 

 Habitat. — Mexican Table Lands, Dr. C. Sartorius. 



Spelerpes orculus. 



Form like that of S. chiropterus, (the inner dibits being similarly ru- 

 dimental) but stouter, a body of equal length being thicker, and the head and 

 neck longer and larger ; the lip is not angularly truncate, and the co'or is tmi- 

 form black. Costal folds eleven. Head elongate, broader behind ; muzzle 

 rounded, truncate, lip rounded ; eyes little prominent ; length of orbit equal 

 from orbit to nostril, and greater tlian bettteen their anterior canthi. Ante- 

 rior digits to middle of orbit ; posterior extends to the sixth from the groin. 

 Tail compressed, flat above. The digits are all short and Hattened, not pal- 

 mate. Series of vomerine teeth very oblique, in contact medially. Postgular 

 fold distinct. 



From end of muzzle to postgular fold 3-8 lines. From end of muzzle to ax- 



• The genus recently nami»d, by Du Boeage, Chioglogsa, I'. Z S., l^Gi, p. 264, appears to be Dot 

 difTereut from Neurergiis, Cope, Pr. A. N S., 1862, S43. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



ilia 5*4 lines. From end of muzzle to groin 13-9 lirjgs. From groin to end 

 of tail 21'1 lines. Length of hind limb 4-4 lines. 

 Habitat. — Mexican Table Land, Dr. C. Sartorius. 



Spelerpes 1 i n e o 1 ii s. 



The species has the general form of Batrachoseps attenuatus, but, as 

 the number of digits is as in Spelerpes, I retain it for the present in that ge- 

 nus. Form very slender ; fourteen costal folds from femur to axilla, the first 

 at the feiiiur. Muzzle short, rather thick, regularly rounded ; eye larae, di- 

 ameter equals frontal width between middle supercilia, longer than length of 

 muzzle. A delicate linear supraoccipital crest on the cranium. Limbs very 

 small, each extending backwards or forwards over but two costal folds. Digits 

 obtuse, rudimental ; no web. Tail compressed, slightly flattened above and 

 below, two and a half times length of body. Head to axilla a little less than 

 half from axilla to groin. A delicate postgular fold. Color, above and below, 

 uniform glossy black. 



Length from end of muzzle to rictus oris 1-4 lines. Length from end of 

 muzzle to axilla 3-8 lines. Length from axilla to groin 8-2 lines. Length 

 from groin to end of tail 20-4 lines. Length of anterior limb 1'2 lines. Length 

 of posterior limb 1-5 lines. 



Habitat. — Table Land of Mexico. Dr. Chas. Sartorius. 



The species sent by Dr. Sartorius to the Smithsonian Institute, are as fol- 

 lows : 



From near Vera Cruz. From Table Land and Southern Mount- 

 ains. 



Spelerpes chiropterus, s. n. Siredon, sp. 



Spelerpes bellii Spelerpes uephalicus, s. n. 



Geotriton carbonarius. Spelerpes orculus, s. n. 



Hyla miotympanum, s. n. Spelerpes lineolus, s. n. 



Hyla baudinii. Hyla gracilipes, s. n. 



Rana, sp. Hyla miotympanum, var. 



Sceloporus. Rana montezuma3-(Hiej:ica«a, RiippeL) 



Sceloporus. Sceloporus. 



Laemanctus longipes, Sceloporus. 



Corythseolus vittatus. Sceloporus. 



Auolis biporcatus. Anolis biporcatus. 



Gerrhonotus tessellatus. Gerrhonotus. 



Ameiva undulata. Ameiva. 



Boa eques. Ameiva. 



Catostoma semidoliatum. Plistodon lynxe. 



Tantilla miniata, s. n. Catostoma semidoliatum. 



Stenorhina ventralis, Catostoma chalybaeum. 

 Ophibolus polyzonus, {Coronella/or- Tantilla. 



mosa, Schleg.,) s. n. Ophibolus micropholis. 

 Diadophis ?stictogenys, (Z). texensis, Rhadinsa decorata. 



Kenn.) Pliocercus elapoides. 



Ninia collaris. Thamnophis. 



Ninia diademata. Thamnophis. 



Cliesodromus liebmanni. Tropidoclonium storerioides, s. n. 



Thamnophis, sp. Arizona deppei, (lineaticoUis, Cope.) 



Spilotes auribundus,t s. n. Drymobius margaritiferus. 



* Tho species from Natal, supposed by me to bs K. tn a s c a r i e n s i s, from Natal, Pr. Acad. Phil., 

 1862, 340 is very differout. and may be called U Bp i n i d ac ty la. 



t The so-called diacraiitorian and allifd khQUS Stegonotus, D. B., has but a slifjlit development of 

 tho posterior tooth, and might be as well couBidered coryphuUont. GUuther's Lidaplus iB iUenti- 



eal 



1865.] 




4. » 



^98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADlC^IY OP 



Tropidodipsas ?,&riox\\^Leptognmhu,i nimantodes^cenQUoa. 



. duinerUi, Jan Eleuco^ s. n. Elaps,^p. . • 



Sibon septentrionale fet var." * Trigonocephalus atrox. 



Himantodes leucomelas, s. n. Crotalus ravus, s. n. 



"Klaps elegans. Caudisona poljsticta, s. u. 

 Trigonocephalus atrox. 

 Botbriechis mexicanus. 



A Contribution to a Knowledge of the DELPHINIDS. 

 BY E. D. COrE. 



Thirty specimens of species of this family at my disposal indicate twenty- 

 two species, of which ten are in the Museum of the Academy. They are : 



Monodon monocerus. Specimens from Drs. Hayes and Kaue ; the 

 latter complete. 



Beluga c a t d o n . Three complete skeletons, from Drs. Kane and Hayes. 



Phoeaeua, undetermined. 



Globicephalus intermedius Gray, Flarlan. Jour, Acad-. Nat. Sci., 1829, 

 51 ; Gray, Catalogue B. Mus. 



One specimen from Cape Cod, Mass , kindly lent me from the Mus. Salem, 

 Mass., (No. 223,) through my friend F. W. Putnam, indicates a form differing 

 little from the European G. me las, or Pilot Whale. 



The muzzle from the maxillary notch is longer, and the preraasillaries a 

 little narrower on its terminal two-thirds than represented by Cuvier's plate 

 (Ossemens Fo-siles 222), or Gray's measurements of the m e 1 a s. Like the 

 m e 1 a s. it is characterized by the straightuess of the plane between the fora- 

 men magnum and the supraoccipital crest, hj the large exposure of the vomer 

 to beyond the maxillary notch, and of the inner portion of the maxillaries 

 from the nasal meatus to opposite the notch. The concavity of the cranium 

 at this point is 1 in. 4 1. below the plane connecting maxillary ahe at the 

 notch, and the intermaxillaries fall very much out of view, except on the 

 terminal half of the muzzle. 



In this specimen the supraoccipital crest and spine and the protuberance 

 of the nasal bones are remarkably developed ; and the palatines and ptery- 

 goids regularly rounded and without angle in section. 



In. Lines. 



Length from end of muzzle to occipital condyle 24 6 



" " " to maxillary notch 13 6 



" " " to occipital crest 22 4 



" from occipital crest to foramen magnum 6 2 



Breadth of muzzle at middle 1 2 



" " at notch 9 3 



•' of premaxillaries at front of blow hole , 6 4 



" between orbits lf> 4 



" " temporal crests 11 



Elevation of nasals above maxillary plate 2 fi 



Teeth Q-tIO 



Orca m eridionalis Flower, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1864, 420. 



A muzzle and jaws of this formidable tyrant of the Australian seas are in 

 the Mus. Salem, Mass., unfortunately without locality. The specimens in its 

 museum are derived from the merchant vessels which trade between that port 

 and various parts of the world. 



The form is massive, and agrees closely with the description and figure 

 above cited ; the end of the muzzle is perhaps a little more arched. The out- 

 line is more acuminate and the intermaxillaries broader, the mandibular rami 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



are narrower, and the end of the muzzle more prolonged into an edentulous 

 beak than appears in Prof. Reinhardt's figure, in his memoir on Orca era s- 

 s i d e n s. 



The triangle extends to opposite the posterior tooth ; the premaxillaries 

 below, to opposite the third from behind. At the latter point the width of 

 the intermaxillaries is double the width from their border to the plane of that 

 of the maxillaries, and it increases from that point to the end of the muzzle, 

 where they are rugose and decurved. Teeth JL, very strong, cylindrical, and 

 incurved, except the posterior superior, which is weak and straighter. 



In. Lines. 



Breadth of muzzle at notch 8 



•' " at fifth tooth 6 6 



" " at anterior tooth 3 



Length from notch 12 8-8 



•' of ramus mandibuli from condyle 20 



" of series of mandibular teeth 9 8 



'• gonys 3 7 



Depth of ramus behind last tooth 2 9 



" " at coronoid process 5 5 



Lagenorhynchus leucopleurus Gray. 



One cranium Mus. Academy, loc. unknown, with long styloid process and 

 deciduous maxillary teeth. 



In Lines. 



Length from end of muzzle to occipital condyle 13 8 



" " " to supraoccipital crest 11 6-8 



" " '■ to maxillary notch 6 11 



" of temporal fossa 2 8 



" of styloid bone 3 1-8 



Breadth at middle of muzzle 2 7 



" at notch 3 10 



" of nasal meatus 2 1-4 



■■ between postorbital processes 7 8 



•' " temporal ridges 6 5-8 



Teeth 27 



Delphinns tursio, Fab. A half grown specimen, judging from the dis- 

 tinctness of the epiphyses. Though differing in various points from the 

 description of Cuvier, the most exact we possess, the peculiarities can be 

 mostly ascribed to immatuiity. The specimen is complete, and is supposed, 

 with some degree of probability, to have been taken on our coast. 



Breadth of muzzle at notch, two and one-sixth times its length ; latter dis- 

 tance, five-ninths total length of cranium. Occiput fuller in profile than in 

 Cuvier's figure, and considerably broader when viewed from above : this 

 breadth enters length of cranium two and one-sixth times. Parasplienoid ahne 

 not excessively prominent. VertebrieC. 7, D. 11, L. 22, to first pierced laterally; 

 C. 13. Eleven pairs of ribs. Cuvier gives D. 13, L. & C. 38, and thirteen 

 pairs of ribs. It is evident that six vertebrse have not been lost from our 

 specimen, though some may be wanting, and possibly one pair of ribs : the 

 limit of variation in this respect among the dolphins is not known. 



Compared with Cuvier's figure, the diapophyses of the atlas are narrower and 

 more acuminate, and the superior and inferior processes of the fifth cervical 

 vertebra less develoj^ed and convergent. The dorsal diapophyses are thinner, 

 and destitute of a marked anterior ridge. In the twelfth caudal the chevron 

 bone is as large as the neural spine in profile. The anterior sternal piece is 

 less emarginate and not laterally projecting incur specimen: the posterior 



* K. Daiijike vid. SeLskab. Forhaudl. \S(,2, 104. 



1865.] 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



piece is cartilaginous, with the anterior fourth alone ossified. The trifling 

 differences in the scapula would probably vanish with age, as the less extent 

 of the superior and supero-anterior outline. Teeth acute, incurved. 



Length from end of muzzle to notch 9 in. 



" (straight) from end of muzzle to occ. condyle 17 " 



" " " atlas to last dorsal 14-25 in. 



" " " " caudal 40 in. 



" of anterior limb 9-75 in. 



" of scapula 6-5 " 



Height of " 4-5 '• 



Breadth of occiput between temporal crests 7 in. 



" muzzle at notch 4 '* 



" " middle 2-75 in. 



Other characters are apparent in the following comparison : 



A. Palate without lateral grooves : teeth jf. 

 Premaxillaries forming an elevated, rounded ridge tursio. 



B, Palate do. : teeth 34—42. 



a. Outline from foramen magnum to frontal crest 



neaTly straight. 



Diameter of temporal fossa, made longer than preorbital 



process ; muzzle flat ; paroccipital most curved outward 



and developed ; width of muzzle at notch two and a half 



times in length clyme ne . 



Aa. Outline from foramen to crest curved, cranium 

 rounded ; temporal fossa much longer than pre- 

 orbital process. 

 Occiput rounded, broad ; paroccipital well developed ; tri- 

 angle to tooth line. Muzzle shorter, 2^ its width at 

 notch, flat at the end, premaxillaries a high ridge me- 

 dially doris. 



Occiput rounded ; paroccipital ala strongly curved outwards ; 

 width of flat muzzle at notch two and a half times in 



length. Triangle short styx. 



Occiput elevated ; paroccipital ala very little developed ; 

 muzzle flat, narrow ; width at notch nearly three times 



in length ; triangle long asthenops, var. 



Occiput broad, subtruncate, prominent behind the temporal 

 fossse ; width of muzzle at notch two and a half times or 

 less in length ; frontal regions broader — otherwise as last, asthenops. 

 aaa. Snpraoccipital rounded in profile ; diameter of tem- 

 poral fossa shorter than preorbital process. 

 Muzzle very flat, 2^ times breadth at notch ; a keel in front 



of nasal meatus c r o taphis cus. 



C. Palate do. : teeth 48—54. 



Muzzle ridged by the elevated premaxillary bones ; width at 

 the notch one-fourth the length ; triangle short ; occiput 

 rounded ; teeth below 49 — 51 m i c r o p s . 



D. Palate with deep lateral grooves. 

 Teeth 4 | ; occiput rounded ; premaxillaries forming an ele- 

 vated angular ridge, subtrigonal in section ; paroccipital 



little developed. Smaller nasal meatus delphis? var. 



Teeth 37 — 42 ; occiput short, rounded ; breadth of muzzle to 

 length as 1 : 2| ; premaxillaries forming a rounded ridge. 

 Larger nasal meatus delphis. 



The form of the fossa of the orbitosphenoid which is overhung by the plate 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



of the maxillary, appears to coincide to some extent with other peculiarities 

 of the species. It appears under the following modifications : 



a. Deep, enclosed, so as to be a blind canal ; 

 D. d r i s, c 1 y m e n e. 



/?. Shallower, open, but strongly marked ; 

 D. Styx, Delphinapterus peronii, D. delphis, (less marked.) 



y. Very shallow, little marked ; 

 D. asthenops et var. , microps, crotaphiscus. 



Delphinus do ri s Gray, Catal. Brit. Mas. Zool. Erebus, Terror tab. 



One specimen, habitat uwknown, from the Museum at Salem, Mass., agrees 

 closely with Gray's indications, with, however, a shorter occiput than repre- 

 sented in his figure. The triangle is marked with numerous curved grooves 

 which converge, and are convex, backwards. The cranium is quite as heavy 

 as that of the t u r s i o. The sella turcica is more strongly marked than in 

 the other species, and the processus olivaris much more prominent and solid. 

 The basioccipital is not grooved for the medulla oblongata ; the paroccipital 

 alae are well developed. The glenoid cavity sends a groove upwards on the 

 inner border of the squamosal process, but its inner border is not pro- 

 longed into an extended lamina towards the sphenoid bounding the periotic 

 elements in front, as in the Delphinapterus. The palatines have not the 

 strong external ridge seen in the latter and the D. crotaphiscus. Teeth 



34 



in. lines 



Length from end of muzzle to convexity of occ condyle 16 4 



" " notch 9 9 



" from notch to middle of occipital crest 5 4 



" ofgonys 1 11 



Width at notch 4 



" at postorbital processes 7 10 



" betweea temporal crests 6 5 



Delphinus cl y m e n e , Gray, Cat. Cetac, p. 115. Zool. Ereb. & Terror, 39. 



That this species is an inhabitant of the coasts of the United States, is proven 

 by the specimen in the Museum of the Academy from off New .Jersey, pre- 

 sented by John Krider, of this city. Its peculiarly flat occiput distinguishes 

 the cranium at once from that of its congeners ; in other respects it is not un- 

 like the Styx of our collection. 



Length of muzzle to notch 11'25 in. 



From end of muzzle to foramen magnum 18 



Length of gonys 1'5 



" from notch of muzzle to foramen magnum 6'25 



" '' foramen magnum to occipital crest 4 



Breadth between temporal ri'lges 6*5 



" " angles of mandible 3"87 



" at notch of muzzle 4"25 



Delphinus styx. Gray, 1. c. 117. Zool. E. T., pi. 21. 



One cranium, Morton collection. Habitat unknown. 



Length from end of muzzle to notch 10 in. 



" " notch (straight) to foramen magnum 7 " 



" " " to occipital crest 5 "_ 



" ofgonys 1-75 in. 



Breadth at notch of muzzle > 4*25 



" between temporal ridges (straight) 6-75 " 



" " angles of mandible 3-50 



Delphinus asthenops, sp. nov. 



Two crania of this species before me are light and rather slender, though 



1865.] 




202 "PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



less so than those of the D. e ii p h r o s y n e and m i c r o p s . The muzzle, 

 though convex in section, is more depressed than in any of the other species, 

 especially opposite the posterior extremity of the dental series. The acumi- 

 nate basal triangle extends an inch or more beyond this point. The premax- 

 illaries are in one specimen quite continuous with the surface of the maxil- 

 laries ; in the other specimen, a slight groove marks the suture. The blow- 

 holes are rather small, and the nasal bones prominent. The breadth and de- 

 pression of the occipital region is the luost striking feature. The temporal crests 

 are as far apart as one-half the length of the muzzle measured in front of the 

 blow-holes, (in the variety below it enters two and two-fifth times, ) and the 

 outline of the occiput between them nearly transverse. Its breadtli is more 

 than double the height of the occipital crest above the foramen magnum, (one- 

 lialf in the variety.) The frontal liones are broad and large ; the width at the 

 blow-holes enters the length of muzzle from the same point one and three- 

 fifth times ; in the variety very uearly twice. These differences are not 

 greater than occur in human skulls, yet it is probable that in a state of nature 

 they accompany other differences, which are together preserved isolated, indi- 

 cating the existence of species. The gutter between the occipital condyles is 

 narrow. In one specimen (59(J) the anterior basi-occipital suture is but little 

 concave ; in the second, (595, ) its sphenoid portion is a little distance be- 

 hind its pterygoid, while in the variety (499) the sphenoid encroaches 

 much more upon the occipital. In the latter, the supraoccipital crest is 

 slightly developed ; in a s t h e n o p s , (595, ) a larger individual, it is more 

 so, though slight ; in 596, neither it nor the temporal crest exist. In this the 

 muzzle is a little shorter ; it is evidently a younger individual of a larger 

 specimen than the variety. The following measurements will explain their 

 other features : 



595 596 



Length from notch to occipital condyle 5 J in. 5| in. 



" " " to middle supraoccipital crest... 4|- " 4| " 



" " " to end of muzzle 9i " 9 " 



Width of muzzle at notch 3,^jin. Sy^g in. 



" " at middle 2 " 1| " 



" between outlines of frontal expansion 6| " 6j " 



" " temporal crests 5| " 5j " 



" across blow-holes 1| " 1^ " 



Length of gonys Ij " 



Teeth ¥ ti 



The above measurements are to be understood as made in right lines. The 

 muzzle of the asthenops is less elongate, with the premaxillaries much 

 more depressed than Dr. Gray represents to be the case in his D. e u p h r o- 

 syne, (Zool. Ereb. and Terror, t. 22.) and the number of the teeth is con- 

 siderably less than in his D. a 1 o p e. The habitat is not known. 



The cranium representing the variety above mentioned may really belong 

 to another species. It differs from the euphrosyne in the longer triangle, 

 muzzle, and gonys, (and smaller number of teeth). It differs from our speci- 

 men of the Styx in the smaller size, obsolete orbitosphenoid fossa, longer 

 triangle, and longer gonys. The last measures four-fifths of the width at the 

 notch ; in the s t y x one-half or less. Habitat unknown ; from the Morton Coll. 



459 



Length from notch to occipital condyle 5| in. 



" " " middle of supraoccipital crest 4| " 



" " " end of muzzle 9| " 



Width of muzzle at notch 3| " 



" " middle , l| " 



" between outlines of frontal expansions 5|- '* 



*• " temporal crests 5 " 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



Width across nasal meatus 1| in. 



Length of gonys lii " 



Teeth ^1^ 



Delphinus crotaphiscus sp. nov. 



This species belongs to the same group as the stys, euphrosyne, (?) 

 and asthenops, resembling most especially the last. Its prominent fea- 

 tures are the fiat muzzle, with carina in front of the blowholes, the very small 

 temporal fossa, and the shallow trace on each side of the roof of the mouth, 

 of the groove so prominent in the delphis group. 

 ^ The paroccipital alse are moderately developed. The glenoid cavity sends 

 no gutter on the inner border of the squamosal process, but its inner margin 

 is produced into a lamina, which is weaker than in the Deljjhinapterus. Pala- 

 tines terminating next the orbitosphenoids in a free keel, and with a strong 

 lateral keel. Occiput broad, rounded, short. Basioccipital groove and sella 

 turcica shallow ; corpus olivare represented by a transverse ridge. Triangle 

 extending beyond the line of posterior teeth. 



In. Lines. 



Length from end of muzzle to occifdtal condyle 16 



" " " to notch 10 



" of gonys 2 



Breadth at notch 3 9 



" at middle of muzzle 2 l-.*) 



" at postorbital process 7 7 



" between temporal crests 5 (j 



Teeth 42 



Habitat. — Unknown. Mus. Salem, Mass. F. W. Putnam. 



Delphinus microps, Gray, 1. c, p. 126. Zool. E. T., pi. 25. 



Two crania, resembling closely Gray's figure quoted, difi'er from the pre- 

 ceding as given in the table, and in the shorter basal premaxillary triangle. 

 The premaxillary ridge is strong, rounded, and the surface not at all con- 

 tinuous with that of the maxiUaries. Proportions as follows : 



5S7 594- 



Length from notch to occipital condyle 6 in. .'j-75 in. 



" " " middle of supraoccipital crest... 4.3 in. 4-5 " 



" " " end of muzzle 10| " 10-75" 



Width of muzzle at notch 3 " 3 " 



" " middle 1-75 " IJ " 



" between outlines of frontal expansion 6 " 6 " 



" of temporal crests 5 " 45 " 



" across blow-holes 1-| " 1-5 " 



Length of gonys 2| " 2 " 



Teeth 1^ If 



Delphinus an sp. nov. ? vel delphis, varietas. 



A single skull, from the Morton collection, stated to have been brought from 

 the Indian Ocean ; is very near those of the delphis, but has smaller nasal 

 meatus and heavier proportions than our specimens of the latter. It resembles 

 rather the cranium of the D, fulvivittatus. Lesson, figured in Vov. d. 

 r Astrolabe et Zele, in the nearly equal width of the muzzle ; but the temporal 

 fossa is elongate in the direction of the axis of the skull, as in most sp<-cies, 

 and not vertical to it. The D. b r e v i m a n u s, Lesson, 1. c, differs in the 

 much more prominent occiput and the smaller number of teeth. The cranium 

 of D. n o V se z e 1 a n d i <'e is not described. In D. s a o the palatal grooves are 

 much shorter. General proportions as follows : 



Length from notch to occipital crest 5 in. 3 1. 



" •' " end of muzzle 10" 9 1. 



" of gonys 1" 10 1. 



1865.] 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Breadth between temporal crests 5 in. 31. 



" " froDtal borders 6" 9 1. 



" of nasal meatus 1 " 10 1. 



" of muzzle at notch 3 " 7 1. 



'' " middle 2 " 



Teeth II 



Delphinus d e 1 p h i s. 



In four specimens (two from Mus. Salem,) the teeth vary within the above 

 tabulated range, and have the length of muzzle from notch three times the 

 breadth at latter point. The intermaxillaries form an elevated ridge. One 

 specimen probably from the British seas. 



Steno frontatus Gray ex Cuvier. 



A fme specimen from Mus. Salem (No. 102,) differs from the figure in Osse- 

 mens Fossiles in that the contraction of the muzzle takes place behind the 

 middle of its length, instead of in front of it, and the prominence of the nasal 

 bones marks nearly the middle of the orbit instead of falling a short distance 



behind the postorbital process. Dimensions as follows : 



In. Lines. 



From end of symphysis mandibuli to convexity of occip. condyle... 21 



Length of symphysis 5 3 



" of ramus 16 6 



End of muzzle to palatal notch 13 10 



" " to preorbital notch 12 



Width at " " 4 3 



" of palate at first tooth 3 3 



" " ninth tooth 1 8 



" between temporal crests 5 8 



" of nasal meatus 2 3 



" at postorbital processes 8 5 



Teeth incurved, fang compressed §'- 



Habitat. — Unknown. 



Platanista gangetica. 



Mus. Academy. Morton Coll. 



On the Species of GALERUCA and allied Genera inhabiting North America. 

 BY JOHN L. LE CONTE, M. D. 



Some of the species mentioned in the present paper are of interest in an 

 economical view, being quite injurious to cultivated plants. Others will pro- 

 bably be found more or less injurious, as the advance of civilization in the 

 western territories will from time to time enable them to substitute for their 

 iudigenous food plants useful to man. 



Confusion exists in regard to the nomenclature of our species, not only 

 because some of the most abundant have remained undescribed, but also for 

 the reason that those already known have not been properly referred to the 

 genera recognised in other parts of the globe ; nor have definitions of the genera 

 yet been given in any American work. 



With a view of supplying the information thus needed, and enabling those 

 interested in economic entomology to work with more effect by having the 

 objects distinctly defined by characters and names, I have here endeavored to 

 give in a brief synoptic form the distinctive marks of the Galerucse and allied 

 genera contained in my collection. 



The tribe Galerucini (Galerucidfe of authors) consists of those Cheyso- 

 MEHDiE having the antennae inserted upon the front, generally closely approxi- 

 mate, long and slender ; the anterior coxae prominent and conical, generally 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



contiguous, (separated by a very narrow prosternal prolongation only in 

 Malacosoma;) the margin of the body not foliaceous, and the last joint 

 of the tarsi extending beyond the lobes of the third joint. Lacordaire (Moi% 

 Col., subpent. i., li.) states that the ungues are always appendiculate, but in 

 several of the genera they are cleft, and in the new genus M o u o s i a they 

 are quite simple and acute. 



The group of genera which will now occupy our attention is distinguished 

 by the hind thighs not being thickened. They do not therefore possess the 

 power of leaping whicli is observed in H a I't i c a and its allies. 



I have not recognized the following species : 



Galeruca dors at a Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., iii. 456 ; ed. Lee, ii. 221. 



Galeruca puncticollis Say, ibid., iii. 458 ; ed. Lee, ii. 222. Perh'aps 

 a species of M o n o x i a . 



Galeruca f u rca t a Oliv., vide Cerotoma. 



Galeruca atomaria Fabr., Syst. El., i. 490. Carolina; probably a 

 species of Monosia. 



Galeruca s a 1 i c i s Randall, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., ii. 31. Maine, on 

 willow ; probably a species of M o n o x i a . 



Galeruca femora lis Mels., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., iii. 161. Ap- 

 pears to be a specimen of the European G. c a p r e se , and has, like several 

 others in the Melsheimer collection, been erroneously regarded as native. 



The genera represented in our fauna may be thus tabulated : 



I. Claws with a broad basal dilatation : 



Antennae with the 1st joint very long, and the third 



longer than the 4th Cerotoma. 



Antennae with the 1st joint moderate: 



Front coxae separated by prosternum Malacosoma. 



Front coxae contiguous : 



Elytra not margined at the sides P h y Hob ro t i c a . 



Elytra distinctly margined : 



Epipleuise not extending to the tip: 



Last joint of maxillary palpi small, subulate Phyllecthris. 



Last joint of maxillary palpi conical, acute Luperus. 



Epipleurae extending to the tip : 



Upper margin of epipleurae thick, obtuse Agelastica. 



Upper margin of epipleurae very sharp, prominent Gastrogyna, n.g. 

 IL Claws cleft or acutely toothed : 



Tibiae with a deep groove on the outer side Coelomera. 



Tibiae not sulcate externally: 



Front carinated between the antennae D i a b r o t i c a . 



Front flat, with a median impressed line : 



Epipleurae extending to the tip Galeruca. 



Epipleurae not extending to the tip T r i r h a bd a, n. g. 



IIL Claws acute, usually entire Monoxia, n.g. 



CEROTOMA Chevr. 

 The greater length of the first joint of the antennae easily distinguishes this 

 from the other genera. Tlie body is rather robust and convex, glabrous 

 above, with the thorax not impressed, and the epipleurae well defined, ex- 

 tending nearly to the tip of the elytra, which are finely punctured. Erichson 

 (Wiegm. Arch. 1S47) describes the ungues as bifid ; they are, however, appen- 

 diculate in our species. 



1. C. c a m i n e a Dej., Cat. 403. Crioceris caminea Fabr., Syst. El., i. 459. 

 Galeruca cam. Oliv., Ent. vi. 656, (No. 93, 72,) pi. 5, f. 73. 



Southern, Middle and Western States ; varies witli the elytra destitute of 

 the usual marking, the suture and scutellar region alone being dusky. 



1865.] 14 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



2. C. f areata Dej., Cat. 403. Galeruca furc. Oliv., Ent. vi. 643, (No. 

 93, 48,) pi. 3, f. 50. 



• Unknown to me. Olivier mentions the locality as doubtful, and describes 

 tbe thorax as having a transverse impression. I think that the reference to 

 the present genus is therefore incoAect, and that Dejean probably had in view 

 a variety of C. c a m in e a , in wiijch all the spots except the apical one were 

 confluent. 



MALACOSOMA Roseuhauer. 



Easily distinguished from the other genera by the prosternum being pro- 

 longed between the front coxte, which arethiis separated by a narrow interval. 

 Th<jfirst joint of the antennse is moderate, the 2d one-half as long as the 3d, 

 which is equal to the 4th. The body is elongated, convex, glabrous, and 

 nearly smooth above ; the epipleurse are well defined, and extend the length 

 of the elytra. 



1. M. fuscula, fusca, vel fusco-testacea, subnitida, thorace convexo, 

 qnadrato, ad basin rotundato medio subemarginato, angulis posticis parvis 

 prominulis, disco alutaceo, parce subtiliter punctulato, elytris fere obsolete 

 punctulatis. Long, -12 — -IS. 



Pennsylvania, Illinois and Kansas. The head is marked between the eyes 

 with two curved deeply-impressed lines, which limit small tubercles ; in front 

 of them, and between the antenufe is a short elevated ridge ; the space before 

 the antennas is uneven, but scarcely punctured. Antennae half as long as the 

 body. Palpi darker at the tip. Thorax quadrate, scarcely wider than its 

 length, sides converging slightly in front, apex truncate, anterior angles 

 rounded, base broadly rounded, slightly emarginate at the middle, hind angles 

 small, laterally prominent ; disc convex, transversely impressed near the base, 

 finely shagreened with very small scattered punctures. Elytra wider than 

 the thorax, and about four times as long, sides parallel ; transversely convex, 

 vaguely impressed near the base, surface not very lliiuiug, feebly and almost 

 obsoletely punctulate, without brilliant reflexions. Beneath colored as above. 

 In the male the 5th ventral segment is excavated, and furnished with a large, 

 flat appendage, which is broadly and obtusely truncate at tip, and projects 

 over the 6th segment. In two specimens (males) from Illinois the thorax is 

 vaguely channelled. 



2. M. tincta, testacea, nitida, elytris punctulatis, viridi-cyaneo suflfusis, 

 sutura margineque anguste testaceis. Long. -12 — '15. 



Two specimens from Quincy, Illinois, given me by Mr. Willcox. This 

 species is of the same form and size as the preceding, but differs by the elytra 

 being distinctly but finely punctured, with a beautiful bluish-green gloss, 

 which fades insensibly into testaceous at the suture and margin. 



The 5th ventral segment of the rual.^ is deeply emarginate, and the process 

 is narrow and acute, instead of broad and truncate, as in M. fuscula. 



PHYLLOBROTICA Redtenbacher. 



Among the genera with the claws- dilated at the base into a broad tooth, 

 this will be easily known by the side margin of the elytra being entirely 

 wanting ; the epipleurse are consequently not defined. The body is elongate, 

 glabrous and nearly smooth above, the thorax quadrate, truncate in front. 

 The antennae are moderately long, with the 2d joint about half as long as the 

 3d, which Is equal to the 4th. The maxillar.v palpi are stout, with the last 

 joint conic&l, as long as the preceding. 



1. P. decorata Lee, Say's Ent. writings, ii. 203. GaUeruca dec. Say, 

 Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., iii. 459 ; ed. Lee. I. cit. Gall. Olivieri Kirby, 

 Fauna Bor. Am. iv. 218. 



Canada, Lake Superior, Illinois ; rare. In the male, the 5th ventral seg- 

 ment is very large, canaliculate, deeply excavated behind, with a small testa- 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



ceous triangular appendage projecting over the 6th segment. The disc of the 

 thorax is not impressed. The reference by Kirby of Haltica 4-maculatU 

 Oliv., Ent. vi. 673, pi. 1, f. 6, to this species, is more than doubtful. 



2. P. discoidea Drj., Cat. 405. GalJernca disc. Fabr., Sj'st. El., ii. 485. 

 Gall. Qircumdata Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., iii. 457 ; ed. Leo. ii. 221. 

 Var. G. limbata, Fabr., Syst., El. ii. 486. 



Throughout the Atlantic States and Canada. Both Fabricins and Say 

 describe the antennse as black; the basal joints are quite frequently yellow, 

 and I have specimens in jvhich the antennae are yellow and slightly fuscous 

 towards the tip. The color also varies, the head and thorax in one specimen 

 being black, and the under surface dark testaceous varied with piceous, the 

 thighs blackish, the tibia and base of tarsi testaceous. The thorax has a broad 

 transverse discoidal impression, which is sometimes disposed to divide into 

 two. 



In the male, the 5th ventral segment is very large, very deeply excavated, 

 with a small elevated ridge in front of the excavation ; the 6th is deeply exca- 

 vated ; the smaller males from Canada also have the antennse quite sensibly 

 thickened externally. 



A singularly-colored specimen, collected in Kentucky, was given me by 

 Mr. J. Ph. Wild. The head is black, with the front and mouth pale yellow. 

 The thorax is bright yellow, the elytra black, with the sutura], lateral and 

 apical margin yellow, and a small humeral vitta extending one-fourth the 

 length of the elytra ; the abdomen is black both above and beneath, ventral 

 segments margined with piceous, the tip yellow ; the feet are bright yellow, 

 with the tarsi black. 



3. Ph. viridipennis. Diabrotica viriil. Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1859, 81. 



Fort Tejon, Cal. ; Mr. Xantus. A beautiful species, having the thorax 

 strongly impressed. The 5th ventral segment of the male is excavated for its 

 almost entire surface, and is neither channelled nor carinated. 



4. Ph. 1 u p e r i n a , nigra, thorace Irevi quadrato, utrinque vage impresso, 

 elytris cyaneis, parce subtiliter punctatis, antennis testaceis extrorsum infus- 

 catis, pedibus fiavis, femoribus piceo maculatis. Long. '26. 



One specimen, collected at San Mateo, Cal., given me by Mr. A. Agassiz. 

 The discoidal impression of the thorax is vague, and scarcely extends to the 

 middle, so that it appears to be divided into two. This insect closely re- 

 sembles in appearance a Luperus. 



PHYLLECHTHRUS jDej. 



Body elongate, glabrous and nearly smooth above. Head transversely im- 

 pressed between the eyes, and with a short median impressed line ; acutely 

 carinate between the antennse, which are very long ; 2d and 3d joints together 

 shorter than the 4th, nearly equal in size in the female, 2d connate with the 

 3d, and nearly obsolete in the male. Maxillary palpi stout, the last joint 

 shorter than the preceding, slender, subulate, acute at tip. Prothorax quad- 

 rate, truncate at the apex, with a lunate dorsal impression more or less dis- 

 tinct. Elytra with the lateral margin distinct, epipleurse very narrow, not 

 extending to the tip. Anterior coxre conical, contiguous ; legs slender, tibiae 

 not sulcate externally, middle tibiae of the male incised at the extremity on 

 the inner margin ; ungues with a large angular basal dilatation. Abdomen 

 with five ventral segments nearly equal in length and alike in both sexes. 



I have adopted the generic name proposed in Dejean's Catalogue for Gall, 

 dorsalis Oliv, 



1. Ph. atriventris. Gall, atriventris Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 iii. 461; (ed. Lee, ii. 224.) 



1865.] 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADExMY OP 



I found this species quite abundant near the Arkansas River, below Bent's 

 Fort. Say states that it lives on Amorpha fruticosa. It dift'ers from the 

 next by the head and thorax being entirely yellow, with the impression of the 

 latter tolerably deep, as in Phyllobrotica decorata. 



2. Ph. dorsal is Dej., Cat. 406. Galleruca dors. Oliv., Ent. vi. 646, (No. 

 93, 52,) pi. 4, f. 54. 



Two specimens from Kansas ; is also found in the Southern States. Of the 

 Bame size, form and sculpture as the preceding, but the discoidal impression 

 of the thorax is very faint, and it is marked wiAh two black vittse, which 

 sometimes unite along the anterior margin, thus causing the anterior part of 

 the thorax to become blackish ; the tibiae and tarsi are entirely black. 



3. Ph. gentilis, elongatus, nitidus flavo-testaceus, supra Ijevis, thorace 

 quadrate, dorso vage trausversim impresso, vittis duabus latis nigris ornato, 

 elytris nigris, sutma margine laterali apicalique anguste flavis: anteuuis 

 fuscis, articulis 4 et 5 testaceis. Long. "15. 



Three specimens ; Georgia. A very pretty little species, easily distinguished 

 by the characters given above. The discoidal impression of the thorax is 

 faint ; the under surface of the body is yellow, with the last ventral segment 

 of the abdomen fuscous. The legs are entirely yellow. The sexual characters 

 are as in the two preceding species. 



LUPERUS Geoffr. 



The species of this genus as now restricted will be readily recognised by 

 the e'ongate form, the quadrate thorax, without discoidal impression, and 

 the epipleurae moderately wide at base, not extending to the tip of the elytra. 

 The body is glabrous, shining and nearly smooth above. The antennse are 

 11-jointed in both sexes ; the 2d joint is shorter than the 3d, but the latter is 

 not equal to the 4th. The maxillary palpi are rather slender, with the last 

 joint as long as the preceding, gradually narrowed to the tip, which is 

 rounded. The thorax is truncate at the apex, slightly rounded on the sides, 

 nearly truncate at base, with the hind angles acute and laterally prominent. 

 The front coxje are conical and contiguous ; the legs are slender, the tibias not 

 sulcate externally, and the ungues have a broad acute basal dilatation. 



In the males the antennse are a little longer than in the females, and the 

 5th ventral segment is broadly impressed and truncate at the tip. 



Our species may be distinguished as follows : — 



A. Prothorax yellow : 



Yellow, elytra black, pectus and abdomen fuscous 1. tho racicus. 



Yellow, occiput, base of elytra and transverse spot behind 



the middle fuscous, pectus black... 2. fibulatus. 



Yellow, elytra with suture and submarginal vilta black.. 3. bivittatus. 

 Blue shining, prothorax yellow, post pectus black 4. flavicollis. 



B. Body uniform in color. 



*Hind angles of prothorax not prominent, but acute : 



Prothorax, sparsely punctulate, hind angles not prominent : 



Legs entirely black 5. smaragdulus. 



Legs varied with testaceous t3. v a r i p e s. 



Prothorax convex nearly smooth : 



Legs varied with yellow 7. cyanellus. 



**Hind angles of thorax acute, dentiform. 

 Thorax wider than long : 



Elytra smooth, legs yellow 8. ru f i p e s. 



Elytra punctulate, thighs varied with black 9. m e r a c a. 



Thorax longer than wide, legs black 10. longulus. 



*** Hind angles of thorax obtuse : 



Body entirely black, elytra punctulate 11. moru lu s. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



1. L. th or aci cus. Calomicrus thor. Mels., Pr.Acad. Nat. Sc. Phil. iii. 162. 

 Pennsylvania, Georgia, Kansas ; rare. Somewhat less elongated than the 



other species, and resembling in appearance Haltica collaris J'abr. The 

 second and third joints of the antennae united are longer than the fourth ; the 

 eljtra are black, slightly bronzed, and strongly but finely punctured. The 

 thorax is transverse, of a pale yellow color. 



2. L. fibulatus. Galleruca fib. Germ., Ins Nov. 601; tGall. A-notata 

 Oliv., Ent. vi. 665 (No. 93, 89) ; pi. 5, f. 90. 



A specimen from Pennsylvania, given me by Dr. Melsheimer. It agrees 

 perfectly with the figure and description of Olivier above cited, but the local- 

 ity as given by him is Java. The type was contained in Bosc's collection, 

 which contained many United States species, and it is quite possible that the 

 locality became confused. 



Germar does not mention that the occiput is dark-coloreJ ; otherwise, his 

 description applies to the specimen before me. 



3. L. bivittatus. Phyllobrotica biv. Lee, Pr. Aead. Nat. Sc. Phil., 

 1859, 81. 



California ; first collected by Mr. Xantus at Tort Tejon. 



4. L. flavicollis. Phyllobrotica fiav. Lee, Pr. Acad. Nat, Sc. Phil., 

 1859, 81. 



Also found at Fort Tejon, Cal., by Mr. Xantns. The sexual characters are 

 as in the following species. 



5. L. smaragdinus Lcc, Proo. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phil., 1859, 286. 

 Capes Reyes and Mendocino, California ; Mr. G Davidson. Difiiers from 



the next by the less densely punctulate thorax, and entirely black legs. 



6. L. varipes Lee, Report Pac. R. R. Expl., p. 69. 

 San Francisco, California ; not rare. 



7. L. cyanellus, elongatus, supra cyaneus nitidus, thorace lati- 

 tndine breviore, angulis anticis rotundatis, posticis rectis baud prominu- 

 lis, disco convexo punctulis panels fere obsoletis versus latera impressis, 

 elytris parce fere obsolete punctulatis ; subtus niger, pedibus flavis, antennia 

 fuscis articulis 4 primis flavis. Long. "15 — "20. 



Western States ; Michigan, Illinois. Differs from the two following by the 

 brighter color, and by the thorax being broader than its length, with the 

 hind angles not prominent. The antennae and feet vary in color, the thighs 

 being sometimes marked with a black line ; and the antennae being sometimes 

 entirely yellow. 



8. L. rufipes Lee, Col. Kansas and New Mexico (Smithsonian Contr.,) 

 p. 27. 



Santa Fo, N. Mexico ; collected by Mr. Fendler. Of the same size and color 

 as L. meraca, but differs by the elytra being obsoletely punctulate, and the 

 feet uniform yellow. The sides of the thorax are less rounded, the front 

 angles not at all prominent, and the hind ones not so dentiform. 



9. L. meraca. Galleruca mer. Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., v. 299; 

 ed. Lee. ii. 344. 



Pennsylvania, Illinois, Kansas, Georgia ; not rare. The anterior angles of 

 the thorax are acute, the hind ones dentiform, the elytra finely punctulate, the 

 antennae uniformly yellow, and the feet yellow, with the thighs more or less 

 varied with piceous. 



10. L. longulus iec, Report on Pacific R. R. Expl., p. 69. 



One specimen, Oregon. Narrower than the preceding species ; the thorax 

 is longer than wide, with the front angles not prominent, the hind angles 

 dentiform, and the disc finely and sparsely punctulate each side and at the 



18G5.] 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



base; the elytra are scarcely punctulate ; the antennae and feet are entirely 

 black. 



11. L. morulas, elongatus, niger nitidus, thorace latitudine paulo bre- 

 viore, quadrato, angulis omnibus subreetis hand prominulis, disco obsolete 

 parce pauctulato, utrinque versus latera leviter impresso, elytris thorace 

 latioribus, parce fere obsolete punctulatis ; antennarum articulo 3io 2ndo vix 

 longiore, conjunctis 4to aequalibus. Long. •4. 



Texas ; I owe three specimens to the liberality of Mr. Hike. This species 

 differs from all the preceding by the third joint of the antennae being scarcely 

 longer than the second, and both united are not longer than the fourth. I 

 infer from European works that it represents the genus Calomicrus 

 Stephens, of which Redtenbacher observes, that he finds no difference between 

 it and Luperns, except the equality of the second and third joints of the 

 antennae in the former. 



In the three specimens before me, the ventral segments 1 — 4 are nearly 

 equal in length, and the fifth is much longer, marked with two distant deeply 

 impressed lines extending from the hind margin nearly to the base of the 

 segment. The antennae are more than two-thirds the length of the body, and 

 I consider them all as males. 



AGELASTICA Redt. 



The body in this genus is ovate and convex, resembling in form e d i o n y- 

 chis among the allies of Haltica. The head is deeply channelled between 

 the eyes, and the usual transverse sinuated line is faint ; the front between 

 the anteunffi is scarcely elevated. The antennae are rather long and stout, 

 with the second joint half as long as the first, the third is a little longer than 

 the second, and both together are longer than the fourth. The maxillary 

 palpi are very stout, the last joint is shorter than the preceding, conical, 

 scarcely longer than its wiJth at base. Prothorax transverse, broadly 

 emarginate in front, and rounded at base, with the angles not prominent. 

 The disc is marked each side with a deep excavation. Elytra convex, dilated 

 behind, obtusely rounded at tip, marked with two foveae at base ; epipleurae 

 distinctly defined, extending to the tip ; lateral margin thick and obtuse 

 toward the tip. Anterior cosje conical, prominent, contiguous ; tibiae not 

 sulcate externally, ungues with a broad angular basal dilatation. 



The characters of this genus are not very well defined, but its more robust 

 form and stronger sculpture will enable it to be readily distinguished. 



1. A. h a 1 e n s i s, rufo-testacea, occipite cyaneo, thorace transverso nitido, 

 utrinque profunde excavato, elytris laete cyaneis, fortiter licet subtiliter 

 punctatis, antennis nigris, pedibus rufis, tibiis apice tarsisque nigro-piceis. 

 Long. -20 — -28. 



Redt. Faun. Austr. 2d ed. 930. Chrysomela hal. Linn. G. nigricornis 

 Panz., &c. 



Two specimens of this common European species were given me as col- 

 lected at Farmington. Connecticut, by Mr. Edward Norton. 



GASTROGYNA Lee. 



Body different in form in the two sexes, above glabrous, nearly smooth. 

 Head with a short medial impressed line between the eyes ; front before the 

 antenna transversely broadly impressed, labrum large, not emarginate. 

 Maxillarv palpi slender, last joint longer than the preceding, pointed at tip. 

 Antennae long and rather stout, second joint one-third as long as the first, 

 third somewhat shorter than the fourth ; eyes small, rounded, not very promi- 

 nent. Prothorax transverse, truncate in front and behind, sides nearly 

 straight, front angles prominent, but rounded at tip, hind angles not promi- 

 nent, slightly obtuse. Elytra elongate and parallel in the male, wider' 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



than tlio thorax, flat aud broadly separately rouudel at the tip in the female ; 

 punctured in both sexes, with the lateral margin acute, and the epipleurse 

 well defined, extending nearly to the tip. Anterior coxae prominent, conical, 

 contiguous ; tibise not sulcate externally, tarsi with the last joint as long as 

 the first, ungues wiih a large obtusely rounded basal dilatation. 



In the male, the anteunse are as long as the elytra, which extend a little 

 beyond the abdomen ; wings perfect. 



in the female, the autenn.-e extend to the tips of the elytra, but the abdo- 

 men is enormously inflated, and more than twice the length of the elytra ; 

 wings wanting. 



1. G. i n s 1 i t a. Diabrotica? insolita Leo , Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, Phil., 

 IStil, 338. 



Cape San Luca,s, Lower California ; Mr. Xantus. The head, thorax and 

 elytra are muddy yellow ; tbe elytra distinctly punctured, with a humeral 

 spot, and another behind the middle black ; the scutellum, tibise, tarsi, pa^pi 

 and antennae are black, the thighs testaceous, the postpectus and abdomen 

 blackish piceous. 



CCELOMERA Chevr. 



Erichsou (Wiegm. Arch., 1847) desires to restrict this genus to those 

 species in which the antennal joints 5 — 10 are much shorter than the 4th. A 

 more valuable character appears to me to be the deep groove on the outer 

 face of the tibise, which distinguishes this from all the other genera repre- 

 sented in our fau'ia. The maxillary palpi are rather stout, with the last 

 joint as long as the preceding, but narrower, subconical, and roundel at the 

 tip. The claws are cleft, with the inner part shorter, but as broad as the 

 outer, and acute at tip. The epipleara; are very narrow, aud do not extend 

 to the tip. The body above is glabrous and nearly smooth. 



1. C. coryli. Galleruca cor. Say, Journ, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phil., 3, 455; 

 ed. Lee. ii. 220. 



Middle, Western States, a'd Kansas. Mentioned by Say as feeding on 

 hazel bushes. I have never collected this species, but have received it from 

 several friends. It is easily known by its large size, pale color, witli broad 

 basal and subapical bands of a bluish black color on the elytra. The elytra 

 of the male are parallel at the sides, those of the female are considerably 

 dilated from the base for two-thirds the length, then obtusely rounded. In 

 the only male before me, the elytra are longer than the abdomen, and the 

 extremity is longitudinally compressed and elevated ; this is probably an 

 individual deformity. The last ventral segment is deeply cleft in the male, 

 but less so in the female. 



Specimens oi;cur with the dark bands badly defined, and sometimes 

 entirely wanting. 



DIABROTICA Chevr. 



This genus contains small species, with elongate body, glabrous above, 

 and generally nearly smooth, though sometimes with deep elytral striae. . The 

 head is marked with a deep transverse impression, or a large fovea, between 

 the eyes, and the front is strongly carinated. The maxillary palpi are not 

 very stout, the last joint is conical, acute, and somewhat shorter tlian the 

 preceding (but scarcely subulate, as described by Ericlison, Wiegm. Arch., 

 1847). The antennae are moderately long, the third joint is sometimes equal 

 to the second, somi-times longer, but both united are not longer than the 

 fourth. The thorax is sometimes even, sometimes deeply impressed each 

 side of the middle. The elytra are sometimes elongate and parallel, some- 

 times convex and ovate ; the epipleur;iG are well defined, but do not extend to 

 the tip. The legs are slender, tbe tibiae not sulcate externally, the claws 

 cleft, the inner part nearly equal to the upper one. 

 1865.] 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Our species can be arranged in four natural groups, of which the fourth 

 seems to be equivalent to the European genus Rhapidopalpns Rosenh. 



A. Thorax without distinct impression, third joint of 



antennse longer than the second. (Group 1.) 



Elytra yellow, with three broad bands and apex 



black.... 1. tricincta. 



Elytra with two transverse bands, and two poste- 

 rior spots on each, brown 2. connexa. 



B. The third joint of antennse equal to the second : 



a. Elytra not striate ; thorax with two faint impres- 



sions. (Group 2.) 



Elytra with twelve large black spots 



Abdomen and base of thighs yellow 3. 12-punctata. 



Abdomen and legs entirely black 4. soror. 



Elytra with twelve small black spots 5. tenella. 



• Elytra with transverse pale, green bands L'. b a 1 1 e a t a. 



b. Thorax with two very deep impressions : 



*Elytra deeply striate. (Group 3.) 

 Elytra pale, with suture and submarginal vitta 

 black : 



Knees and tarsi black 7. vittata. 



Legs black, femora pale at the base 8. trivittata. 



**Eiytra carinate towards the sides. (Group 4.) 

 Greenish yellow, elytra strongly punctured and 



subsulcate 9. 1 ougic o rn is. 



Black, elytra sparsely punctulate, prothorax yel- 

 low or black 10. atripennis. 



1. D. tricincta Lee, Say's Ent. ii. 222. Galleruca trie. Say, Journ. 

 Acad. Nat. Sc. Phil. iii. 457; ed. Lee. ii. 221. 



Abundant along the Arkansas river, near the mountains : a specimen was 

 sent me from Arizona, by Dr. B. J. D. Irwin, U. S. A. 



2. D. connexa, rufo-flava, nitida, capite fusco, elytris postice latioribus, 

 convexis, basi, fascia transversa ad medium, guttisque utrinque posticis duabus 

 rufo-fuscis, fascia basali et mediali vitta angusta convexis ; postpectore tibiis 

 tarsisque obscuris, autennis fuscis basi pallidis. Long. -28. 



One specimen from Rio Grande, Texas. Of the same size and form as D. 

 12-p un c t a t a, but differing by the elongated third antennal joint, and by 

 the elytral markings, which are thus arranged ; a basal band extending from 

 the suture to the reflexed margin, another at the middle slightly oblique, 

 connected with the first by a short longiiudinal stripe near the side ; two 

 rounded spots behind the middle, placed transversely, the outer one being 

 smaller and a little posterior. Tlie thorax is quadrate, a little longer than its 

 width, smooth, and without impressions. The autennre art- fuscous, with the 

 first three joints pale ; the second is only one-third the length of the third, 

 which is as long as the 4th. The thighs are yellow, the tibise and tarsi 

 fuscous ; the postp'ctus piceous. The scutellum is of the color of the 

 elytral bands. 



3. D. 12-punctata Dej., Cat. 405; Mannh. Bull. Mosc, 1843, 309. 

 Chrysoinela, Galleruca et Crioceris 12-pwnc^ Fabr. ; Galleruca l2-punct. Oliv. 

 Ent. vi. 628 (No. 93, 23), pi. 2, f. 31. 



Abundant throughout the Atlantic district from Canada to Mexico ; vari- 

 eties sometimes occur, having the spots more or less confluent longitudinally. 

 The first three joints of the anteunre are yellow, the abdomen and base of the 

 thighs are also yellow. 



4. D. soror. Diahotlca \2-punctata, var., Mannh. Bull. Mosc, 1843, 309. 



[Oot. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



California, Oregon, and Arizona. This species represents the preceding in 

 the Pacific district, and only differs from it by the under surface, the legs and 

 the antennje being black. I have observed no transition between the two 

 forms, and since in this, as in other genera of Chrysomelidie, the distribution 

 of color is an important specific character, I am obliged to admit it as a dis- 

 tinct species. 



5. D. tenella Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phil., 1850, 88. 



Fort Yuma, Colorado River, California. Colored like D. 12punctata, 

 but the elytral spots are very small. 



6. D. bait eat a, elongata, pallida, nitida, thorace biimpresso, elytris sub- 

 tilius punctatis, fasciis tribus pallide viridibus ornatis, antiea versus basin vitta 

 emittente ; occipite antennisque rufo-fuscis, his artlculis tribus baseos 

 pallidis ; postpectore, tibiis tarsisque fuscis. Long. '23. 



One specimen from the Rio Grande, Texas. A very beautiful and delicately- 

 tinted species ; the second transverse band of the elytra is a little behind the 

 middle, and is limited each side by oblique impressions. 



7. D. vittata Dej., Cat. 405. Crioceris vitt. Fabr., Eut. Syst. i. 2, 12; 

 El. i. 455; Galleruca vitt. Oliv., Ent. vi. 633; Enc. Meth. vi. 590; Harris 

 Ins. Inj. Veg. 2d ed., 124; Shimer, Prairie Farmer, xvi. 109. 



Abundant in the Atlantic States ; quite destructive to cucumber vines 

 and other cultivated Cucurbitacete. The two thoracic impressions 

 become confluent at the middle ; the elytral strise are very deep ; the legs are 

 yellow, with the knees, the tips of the tibiae and the tarsi black. 



. 8. D. trivittata Mannh., Bull. Mosc, 1843,309. 



California. Closely resembles the preceding, but the impressions of the 

 thorax are smaller and not confluent ; the striae of the elytra are less 

 deep, and less strongly punctured ; the feet are black, with the base of the 

 thighs pale ; the antennae are entirely black. 



9. D. longicornis Galleruca long. Sav, Joum. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phil., 

 iii. 460 ; ed. Lee. ii. 223. 



Illinois and Kansas ; differs from the next species by the elytra being 

 densely punctured, with traces of faint strise. 



10. D. atripennis Galleruca air. Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phil., 

 ill. 461 ; ed. Lee. ii. 224. Prothorax and abdomen yellow. 



Var. a. Body black, prothorax yellow, with a broad dorsal black vitta. 

 Galleruca (Adimonia) cristata Harris, Hartford Tr. Nat. Hist. Soc. 90. 



Var. b. Body entirely black. D.? fossata Lee, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sc. Phil., 

 1858, 88. • 



The type occurs in Kansas ; var. a. throughout tlie Atlantic States, and 

 var. b. in Texas, Illinois, and at Lake Superior. After careful examination, I 

 can find no differences but those of color. 



GALERUCA Geoflfr. 



This genus, by an error of spelling, is usually known as Galleru- 

 c a, and is restricted to species which are punctured, and more or less pubes- 

 cent above. The front is not carinated between the aateunw ; the maxillary 

 palpi are rather stout, with the last joint conical ; the third joint of the an- 

 tenna} is equal to the fourth and longer than tlie second. The epipleura' ex- 

 tend (0 the tip of the elytra, except in G. x a n t h o m e 1 a; n a, where tlie low- 

 er margin becomes obsolete behind, without uniting with the upper margin, and 

 in G. infuscata and m o r o s a, wliere the upper margin is obtuse, and be- 

 comes obsolete near the tip. The front coxae are contiguous, conical and pro- 

 minent ; the tibiae are not sulcate, the claws are acutely toothed, or may be 

 regarded as cleft, with the lower part much shorter than the upper. 



1865.] 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Our species are numerous, and may be grouped as follows, in a tolerably 

 natural manner, thoiigli intermediate forms occur. The relation between the 

 groups and the sexual characters does not appear to be as precise in our 

 species as it was found by Suffrian in those of Europe. (Vide Stettin Ent. 

 Zeit., 1843, p. 91.) 



A. Extreme margin of elytra acute : 



a. Body above coarsely punctured, glabrous or slight- 



ly pubescent : 

 ■^Marginal sulcus not distinct from the margin. (Group 1.) 



Black, elytra costate, margined with yellow 1. externa. 



Testaceous, elytra usually with black vittse : 



Elytra cribrate-punctate, thorax shining 2. crib rata. 



Elytra cribrate-punctate, thorax opake 3. am eric an a. 



Elytra densely coarsel.y punctured, thorax opake 4. c o n f e r t a. 

 Elytia densely less coarsely i>uuctured, thorax 



opake 5. sexvittata. 



**Marginal sulcus distant fiom the margin, which is 



thickened, (color uniform dark red.) (Group 2.) 

 JBody ovate, convex ; el^^tra cribrate-punctate : 



Thorax shining, deeply excavated 6. cavicollis. 



Thorax opake, deeply excavated 7. rufosan guinea. 



Body elongate, elytra densely punctured 8. hcematica. 



b. Body above not very coarsely punctured, serice- 



ous pubescent ; never ovate convex: (Group 3.) 



Base of thorax sinuate each side near the angles 9. tuberculata. 



Base of thorax obliquely truncate each side : 



Thorax shining, with twodeep excavations ; su- 

 tural angle of elytra prominent, side mar- 

 gin yellow : 



Elongate, elytra rather finely punctured 10. punctipennis. 



Elytra less finely punctured : 



Elongate, angles of thorax scarcely prominent 11. marginella. 



Less elongated, angles of thorax prominent 12. sagittarisB. 



Thorax opake, bifoveate ; sutural angle not 

 prominent : 



Elytra not densely punctured, color brown 13. decora. 



Elytra not densely punctured, color entirely 



black 14. c a rb 0. 



Elytra testaceous, with four black lines on each : 



1st and 2d vittse confluent behind th^middlelS. notulata. 



2d vitta very short, basal 16. not at a. 



2d and 4th vittse entire 17. Integra. 



c. Body above finely punctured, moderately pubes- 



cent, inferior margin of epipleurs obsolete 



near the tip. (Group 5.) IS. x a n t ho rci e 1 se ii a. 



B. Lateral margin of elytra obtuse, but slightly promi- 

 nent. (Group 6.) 



Elytra with very short pubescence t 19. m ar it im a. 



Elytra with moderately long pubescence 20. mor os a. 



Group I. Adimokia Laich. 



In this group the body is usually stout, ovate and convex, with the elytra 

 dilated behind, scarcely pubescent, and generally very coarsely punctured ; 

 the thorax is short, narrowed in front, rounded on the sides, with the angles 

 frequently not prominent or dentiform. The wings are perfect in all our spe- 

 cies, though some European species are destitute of those organs. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



1. G. externa Sai/, Joiirn. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., iii. 458 ; ed. Lee, ii. 

 222. Adi7)ionia ext. Lee, ibid. ; G. i-udis Lee, Rep. Pacific R. R. Expl., 69. 



Kansas and Oregon ; tbose from the former locality are more coarsely 

 punctured, but do not show any specific differences. 



Tke fifth ventral segment in both sexes is marked with two large impres- 

 sions, and in the male is emarginate at tip. 



2. G. crib rat a, ovata, convexa, sordiderufo-testaceanitida, tborace brevi 

 antrorsum angustato, lateribus rotundatis, angulis baud prominulis, basi 

 utrinque oblique truncate, disco baud dense punctato, vage 3-foveato et ad 

 angulos posticos oblique impresso, elytris fortiter cribratim punctatis, scepe 

 vittis angustis tribus utrinque ornatis ; margine laterali fortius refleso ; anten- 

 nis extrorsum infuscatis. Long "21 — "28. 



Massachusetts, Georgia, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Kansas. Tlie black vittre 

 are very narrow, and extend from the base almost to the tip ; the outer one 

 is very frec^uently obsolete, and often all are completely wanting. Sexual 

 characters as in G. e x t e r n a, except that the impressions of the fifth ventral 

 segment are transverse and smaller. 



3. G. americana Fabr., Syst. El. i. 489; Oliv., Ent. vL 636, (No. 93, 

 36,) pi. 3, f. 43. 



Middle States, Illinois, Lake Superior. Of the same form as the preceding, 

 but generally a little smaller, and the elytra are clothed with coarse pubes- 

 cence. The punctation of the elytra is equally coarse, but the ^ides are not 

 so strongly margined ; the thorax is more punctured, the hind angles are 

 not flattened by oblique impressions, and are somewhat prominent ; the three 

 discoidal impressions of the thorax are fuscous ; the suture of the elytra and 

 three narrow vittse on each aro blackish ; the inner dhe is sometimes obsolete. 

 Last ventral segment with a transverse impression each side ; tip emarginated 

 in the male. 



4. G. conferta, elongatoovata, minus convexa, sordide testacea haud 

 nitida, tborace brevi antrorsum angustato, angulis baud prominulis, lateri- 

 bus rotundatis, basi utrinque oblique truncato, disco late canaliculato, vage 

 biimpresso, fusco trimaculato, confertim subtilius punctato ; elytris dense for- 

 titer puuctatis brevissime parce pubescentibus, fortius marginatis, vittis utrin- 

 que tribus nigris, intermedia postice abbreviata ; antennis fuscis, articulis 

 3 primis testaceo-maculatis ; abdomiue fusco, cinereo pubescente. Long •21. 



Canada and Illinois ; two specimens. This species has the elongate form of 

 G. notulata, but is more dilated posteriorly ; the elytra are densely but 

 coarsely punctured, the pubescence is very short, and not conspicuous. The 

 last ventral segment is transversely impressed each side, as in the preceding 

 species. 



5. G. sexvittata, elongata, supra obscure testacea opaca, tborace brevi 

 antrorsum angustato, lateribus rotundatis, angulis haud prominulis, dense 

 minus subtiliter punctato, subcanaliculato, utrinque late impresso, vitta dor- 

 sali maculac|ue utrinque nigris ; elytris dense punctatis, (punctis antice for- 

 tioribus), vittis utrinque tribus nigris fere integris ornatis ; vitta capitis, anten- 

 nisque nigris, femoribus medio, tibiis apice tarsisque nigris. Long '24. 



One male from Pennsylvania ; the fifth ventral segment is transversely im- 

 pressed each side, and slightly emarginate at tip. Tliis sj)ecies resembles G. 

 conferta, but is more finely and densely punctured. 



Group II. Adimonia p. Laicb. 



In two of the species of this group the body is ovate and convex, but in the 

 third the form is elongate ; the upper surface is coarsely punctured, and the 

 pubescence very short and indistinct ; the thorax is deeply channelled, and 



1865.] 




216 PROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OP 



has a large excavation each side ; the anterior angles are prominent, and the 

 base each side is sinuate. The superior epipleural margin is acute, but not 

 prominent, the margin of the elytra being thickened, and the marginal sulcus 

 somewhat remote from the extreme margin. The last ventral segment in 

 both sexes is transversely impressed each side, but in the male is deeply ex- 

 cavated and emarginate behind, the outline of the emargination being rounded 

 and not angular. They are all of a dull red color. 



6. G. cavicollis, obscure sanguineo-rufa, ovata convexa, thorace nitido, 

 brevi, lateribus subangulatis, angulis omnibus promiuulis, basi utrinque pro- 

 funde oblique sinuato, disco cribratim puuctato, profundo canaliculato, et 

 utrinque late excavato, elytris parce brevissime pubescentibus sat dense cribra- 

 tim punctatis ; antennis nigrls, tarsis fuscis. Long. -21. 



One specimen from North Carolina, Dr. C. Zimmermann. This species must 

 be very similar to the European G. sanguine a, but I have had no oppor- 

 tunity for comparison. 



7. G. rufosanguinea Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., v. 299 ; ed. 

 Lee, ii. 343 ; Adimonia ruf. Lee, ibid. 344. 



Middle and Southern States. Of the same convex form as the preceding, 

 but not at all shining. 



8. G. h se m a t i c a, sanguineo-rufa, elongato ovata, minus convexa, thorace 

 nitido, brevi, lateribus late rotundatis, angulis omnibus prominulis, basi 

 utrinque oblique sinuato, disco cribratim punctato, profunde canaliculato, et 

 utrinque valde excavato, elytris opacis, parce brevissime pubescentibus, con- 

 fertim fortiter punctatis, antennis nigris, pedibus nigris plus minusve rufo- 

 variis. Long -20— -22. 



Quebec, Canada, Mr. W. Couper ; also found in Illinois, and at Fort Liard, 

 Hudson Bay Territory. The last ventral segment of the male is deeply ex- 

 cavatec', the excavation limited by a sharp edge, which is curved in front and 

 not augulated. 



Group IIL 



Oval or elongate species, less convex than most of those of the preceding 

 groups, and clothed above with a fine sericeous pubescence ; the punctures are 

 never very coarse, the angles of the prothorax are frequently prominent, and 

 the marginal sulcus of the elytra is broader than usual, causing the margin 

 Itself to appear thinner and more reflexed, except in G. tuberculata, 

 where the sulcus is somewhat separated from the margin, and the latter is 

 slightly thickened, though much less so than in Group IL 



The species are found exclusively upon aquatic plants, and, with the ex- 

 ception of the small species allied to G. decora, are easily defined and re- 

 cognized. 



9. G. tuberculata Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., iii. 456 ; ed. Lee, 

 ii. 220; Adimonia tub., Lee, ibid. 



Middle and Western States ; distinguished by its larger size, and slightly 

 thickened elytral margin ; the sutural angle of the elytra is not prominent ; 

 the base of the thorax is obliquely sinuate near the sides. 



The fifth ventral segment in the male is narrowly incised at tip, and canali- 

 culate nearly to the base. 



10. G. punctipenn is ilfa/mA., Bull. Mosc. 1843, 308. 



California, two specimens kindly sent me by Col. Motschulsky. Of the same 

 elongate form as the next species, with the front angles of the thorax scarcely 

 prominent, and with the sutural angle of the elytra equally prominent ; they 

 are, however, more finely punctured, and the punctures become smaller to- 

 wards the sides and tip. 



The fifth ventral segment of the male is acutely emarginate. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



11. G. marginella Kirbi/, Faun. Bor. Am. iv. 220; ?G. hicluosa 

 Mannh., Ball. Mosc. 1S65, 368 ; ibid. 1853, 259. 



I refer a specimen of narrow form, and -25 unc. long., from Fort Simpson, 

 Hudson Bay Territory, to this species. It diifers from the next by its more 

 elongate form and scarcely prominent anterior angles of the thorax. The 

 body beneath is black, clothed witli silvery hairs, legs brown, tibiae and tarsi 

 paler. This species should probably not be separated from G. n v m p h se se 

 Fubr, Ent. Syst., 1. 2, 21 ; Syst. EL, i. 486. Oliv. Ent., vi. 643, (No. 93, 49,) 

 pi. 3, fig. 51, &c., &o. Chrij'toinvla npnphcece Linn. 



12. G. sagittariae G'^'/L, Ins., iii. 511, &c., &c. Redt., Fauna Austr., 

 2d ed., 928. 



Found throughout the middle and northern parts of the Atlantic district. 

 I refer to this species the rather stoutly-formed specimens with punctured 

 elytra and well marked sutural angle, which ociur abundantly on Nym- 

 ph re a and N u ph a r ; the prothorax is polished, with scattered large punc- 

 tures ; tlie dorsal channel is well marked, and the two discoidal excavations 

 large and deep ; the sides are subangulated, and the anterior angles promi- 

 nent ; the base is obliquely truncate each side, as in the two preceding spe- 

 cies ; the disc is yellow, usually with three large blackish spots. The pubes- 

 cence of the elytra is very short, and the margins yellow-testaceous. The 

 under surface is dusky, the tip of the abdomen pale ; the legs testaceous, with 

 part of the thighs and outer portion of tibiae and tarsi dusky. 



The last ventral segment of the male is deeply and acutely emarginate. 



13. G. decora, longiuscula, fusca vel picea, dense sericeo-pubescens, 

 thorace opaco, subtiliter dense punctato, canaliculato, utrinque late foveato, 

 lateribus late rotundatis, angulis omnibus valde prominulis, basi utrinque 

 oblique truncato, elytris hand dense punctatis, angulo suturali apice rotun- 

 dato ; subtus nigro-picea, pedibus obscure testaceis. Long. -19 — -21. 



fat/, Long's Exp. St. Peter's, ii. 294: ed. Lee. i. 195. 

 buudant at Lake Superior, Slave Lake, and in Canada; found also in 

 Mass. and Illinois. 



This species varies considiarably in color and sculpture ; the lighter-colored 

 specimens have the thorax yellow with three black spots, and the elytra 

 margined with yellow ; the thoracic angles are usually very prominent, but 

 sometimes are less conspicuously so ; the elytra are sometimes very strongly 

 and uniformly punctured : sometimes the punctures towards the tip are less 

 impressed. I have not been able to discover any constant differences sufficient 

 to lead to a division of the species into races. 



The fifth ventral segment of the male is deeply excavated, the margin of 

 the excavation being acute and elevated, almost as in G. h ae m at i c a. 



14 G. c arbo Lee, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861, 358. 



Oregon, east of Fort Corlville, G. Gibbs, Esq. Only differs from the preceding 

 by the rolor, which is entirely black. It should probably be considered as a 

 race of G. decor a. 



15. G. noiulata Fubr., Svst. El., L 4S9 ; Oliv. Ent., vi. 636, (No. 93, 

 37,) pi. 3, fig. 44. 



Found throughout the Atlantic district. Of the same form and sculpture 

 as G. d ecora, but dilTeiing in color, which is dirty testaceous above, with 

 an occipital line, three thoracic spots, and four narrow lines on each elytron 

 black ; the subsutural vitta extends from before the middle nearly to the tip, 

 where it unites with the submarginal one ; the second vitta is oblique, and 

 becomt;.-; contluent with the subsutural one beliind the middle. 



1 think that G. hi 1 i u e a t a Kirby, Faun. Bjr. Am., iv. 220, is a specimen 

 of this species with indistinct markings. 



The fifth ventral segment is impressed transversely each side in both sex, 

 and is tolerably strongly emarginate at tip in the male. 



1865.1 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



16. G. not at a Fahr., Syst. El., i. 488. Oliv. Ent., vi. 637, (Nos. 93, 

 38,) pi. 3. fig. 45. 



Also widely diffused in the Atlantic district. Of the same form and color 

 as the preceding, but the first, thirl and fourth black stripes of the elytra 

 reach neither the base nor the tip, and the second one is very shgrt, extend- 

 ing from the base only about one-sixth the length. The elytra are rather 

 more finely punctured. 



The last ventral segment is transversely impressed each side, and in the 

 male is acutely but not deeply emarginate at tip. 



17. Gr. integra, elongata, minus convexa, supra subtiliter at dense 

 jjubescens, sordile testacea subopaca, thorace brevi, lateribus rotundatis, an- 

 gulis baud prominulis, dense subtiliter punctato vix canaliculato, utrinque 

 vage impresso, vitta dorsali punctoque utrinque discoidali nigris, elytris dense 

 punetatis, punctispo3ticesiTbtilioribu3,vitti3 utrinque quatuor angustis nigris, 

 quarum secunda et quarta integris, apice conjunctis ; tarsis fuscis, antennis 

 piceis basi testaceo-maculatis. Long. '22. 



Two specimens ; Pennsylvania. 



More elongated and less convex than the two preceding species,- with the 

 vittffi of the elytra difi'erently arranged ; the sabsutural one reaches neither 

 the base nor the tip ; the second and fourth commence at the base and unite 

 near the tip ; the third is a little abbreviated behind. 



The fifth ventral segment of the male is deeply and acutely emarginate. 



Gkoup IV. 



A European species, introduced upon this continent, represents this group 

 in our fauna. The body is oval, very slightly convex, densely rather 

 finely punctured and pubescent above. The lateral margin of the elytra is 

 acute and the marginal sulcus, as in Group III., is not removed from the 

 margin ; the inferior margin of the epipleurje becomes obsolete near the tip, 

 without, however, uniting with the upper margin, as it does in those geftera 

 in which the epipleurse do not extend to the tip. 



18. G. xan t h m elsen a Duftschm. Redt., Fauna Austr., 2d ed., 927, 

 &c., &c. 



G. ccdmariensist Fabr., Syst. El., ii. 488; Harris, Ins. Inj. Veg., 2d ed., 

 124; Fitch, Fifth Report on Noxious Insects of New York, No. 346. 



G. gelatinaricB Fabr., Syst. El. i. 490 ; Oliv. Ent., vi. 32, (No. 93, 30,) pi. 3, 

 fig. 37 ; (a dark colored variety.) 



Maryland and Pennsylvania. Injurious to elm trees by the larvse eating 

 the young leaves. The fifth ventral segment of the male is deeply and acutely 

 emarginate. 



Gkoup V. 



Two elongate slightly convex species, found near the shores of the ocean, 

 constitute this group. They are densely punctured above and moderately 

 pubescent : the thorax is rounded on the sides, with the angles not at all pro- 

 minent ; the lateral margin of the elytra is obtuse, and but slightly promi- 

 nent, becoming obsolete near the tip, and scarcely uniting with the inferior 

 margin of the epipleurs. The marginal sulcus is very narrow. 



19. G. maritima, elongata, testacea, fusca, vel nigra, capite rude 

 punctato, thorace brevi antrorsum angustato, lateribus late rotundatis, an- 

 gulis hand prominulis, basi utrinque oblique subtruncato, disco parum con- 

 vexo, fortiter punctato, breviter canaliculato, utrinque vage foveato, angulis 

 posticis obtusis explanatis, elytris dense subtilius punetatis, pube brevi pal- 

 lida minus dense vestitis. Long. *30. 



Abundant along the the sea coast from New York to Florida. Intermediate 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP rHILADELPHIA. 219 



variations occur in which the thorax is partly testaceous, and the elytra black, 

 with the margin and suture pale. 



20. G. m o r o s a Lee, Rep. Pacific R. R. Expl., 70. 



One specimen found on salt marsh at San Francisco, Cal. Resembles a black 

 individual of CI. m a r i t i m a, but the thorax is less narrowed in front, less 

 rounded on the sides, and the hind angles are not flattened ; the elytra are 

 more coarsely punctured, and the pubescence is longer and nearly white. 



TRIRHABDA Lee. 



Body elongate, not very convex, finely punctured and pubescent. Front 

 flat, with the usual impressions as in Galeruca ; not at all cariuate between 

 the antennae ; maxillary palpi not very stout, with the last joint conical, acute, 

 as long as the preceding, aad not smaller than it at the base ; anteunEe with 

 the third joint intermediate in size between the second and fourth. Prothorax 

 with a large, transverse, broad impression, which is disposed to divide into 

 three, being deeper at the middle and at the sides. Elytra distinctly margined 

 at the sides, with the epipleurie very narrow, and becoming indistinct about 

 the middle. Anterior coxie conical, prominent, contiguous ; tibice not sulcate 

 externally ; ungues cleft at the tip, with the inner part a little shorter than 

 the outer. The last ventral segment in the males is slightly emargiuate. 



These species are of large size : the head and thorax are pale, the former 

 with an occipital, the latter with three discoidal black spots ; the elytra are 

 pale, with a broad sutural and discoidal black (or rarely gre^^n) stripes. In 

 some species these vittre coalesce, causing the margin only to remain pale. 



The difi'erences in the proijortion of the joints of the antennae and in the 

 epipleurte prevent these species from being retained in Galeruca, The 

 genus does not appear to be represented in Europe. 



The species may be distinguished as follows : 



Thorax smooth, polished, feebly impressed 1. nitidicollis. 



Thorax more or less punctured ; 

 Lateral and apical margins of elytra yellow ; 



Elytra extremely finely punctured ; 



Vittre black, generally uniting near the tip 2, canadensis. 



VittJe green or bronzed, entirely confluent 3. luteocincta. 



Elytra moderately finely punctured ; 



Vittffi blue, entirely confluent 4. flavolimbata. 



Vittse blue, gradually approaching behind ; 



Larger, elytra more finely punctured 5. attenuata. 



Smaller, elytra less finely punctured 6. convergens. 



Vittffi black, gradually approaching behind 7. tomentosa. 



Vittffi black, not united at tip 8. v i rg a t a. 



Yellow margin of elytra not extending to the tip 9, brevicollis. 



1. T. ni ti di c 1 1 i s, luteo-testacea, occipiie subtiliter punctato, nigro- 

 maculato, tborace latitudiue vix duplo breviore, convexo lajvi polito, augulij 

 baud prominulis, disco utrinque oblique impresso, guttis tribus nigris siguato, 

 elytris subtiliter dense punctulatis et pubescentibus, vitta suturali alteraque 

 submarginali angustis cyaoeo-nigris mox ante apicem coiijunctis ; antennis 

 fuscis. Long. -42. 



One specimen collected in New Mexico by Mr. Fendler. Easily distinguished 

 by the characters above given. The elytra are very little wider than the thorax, 

 and the sutural angle is slightly prominent, while in all the following species 

 it is rounded. 



2. T. c a n a d e n s i s. Galeruca canadenitis Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am., iv. 2IS». 

 A common species, extending from Lake Superior and the Mississipjii Valley 



to the Pacific. The black vittK are regular, and generally are united near the 



1865.] 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tip, though sometimes they nre entirely separate. It is easily distinguished 

 trom all the following, except T. 1 u te o c in c ta, by the extremely fine punc- 

 tation of the elytra. 



The sculpture and form of the thorax is subject to some variation ; there is 

 sometimes an impressed dorsal line, and the angles are occasionally quite pro- 

 minent. 



3. T. luteocincta. Galleruca luteocincta Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1858, 88. 



Very abundant at San Diego, California, upon a species of Artemisia. I 

 have also received it from Santa Cruz, Cal. The elytra are generally green or 

 bronzed, with the sides and apex broadly margined with yellow ; individuals oc- 

 cur, however, in which tbevittEcare well defined, and which can only be distin- 

 guished from T. canadensis by the thorax beir^g more shining, with larger 

 scattered punctures, and by the color of the elytral vittfe, which are always 

 dull black in the preceding, while they are greenish blue or bronzed in the 

 present species. 



4. T. fl avoli mb ata. (raZZpriwa./^avoZjOTSa^a Mannh., Bull. Mosc, 1843, 308. 

 Northern and middle California. For a type I am indebted to the kindness 



of Col. Motschulsky. Differs from the preceding by the elytra being of a 

 beautiful blue color and less finely punctured. I have seen no variation in 

 color, though specimens will probably occur having the blue disc of the elytra 

 divided into vittae. 



5. T. a 1 1 e n u a t a. Galleruca attenuata Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., iii. 459 ; 

 ed. Lee, ii. 223. 



Kansas. Larger than the next species, and with the elytra more finely punc- 

 tured, being in this respect intermediate between T.flavolimbata and T. 

 canadensis. The discoidal vitta of the elytra is gradually widened behind, 

 and becomes confluent with the sutural one about one-third from the apex, 

 (very much as in T. b a c c h a r i d i s) in the two specimens before me. 



6. T. c n V e r ge n s, testacea, pallide pubescens, occipite parce punctato 

 nigro, thorace latitudine duplo breviore, angulis vix prominulis, disco parce 

 grosse punctato, utrinque obliqueprofunde impresso, linea dorsali brevi impressa, 

 maculis tribus magnis ornato, elytris fortius dense punctatis, vitta suturali al- 

 teraque discoidHli latis cyaneis vel viridibus, hac pone medium sensim dila- 

 tata ; pectore abdomineque ssepissime fuscis, antennis nigris basi testaceo-ma- 

 culati'5. Long. -24 — 28. 



Kansas; Nova Scotia, Mr. Ulke. A widely diffused species, easily recog- 

 nized by its small size and rather coarse punctures. 



The dorsal vitta of the elytra is dilated behind in most specimens, but does 

 not reud" r the pale vitta shorter than in other species but merely attenuates 

 it behind the middle. In some of the specimens from Nova Scotia, the blue 

 vlttffi are not united even at the tip, thus showing the same variation already 

 noted under T. canadensis. 



7. T.tomentosa. Chrysomela tomentosa Linn., Syst. Nat., ed. ]2mo., i. 

 ii. 601. Galleruca baccharidis Weber., Obs. Ent., 57 ; Fabr., Syst. El., i. 480 ; 

 Oliv. Ent., vi. 629, pi. 3, 34. 



Occurs near the sea coast from New York to Florida. In all the specimens 

 before me, the discoidal black vitta of the elytra is dilated behind, and becomes 

 confluent with the sutural vitta about one-fourth or one-fifth from the apex. 

 It is easily distinguished by the very prominent thoracic angles causing the 

 sides to become quite sinuous. The description of Linnaeus, which is quite 

 characteristic, seems to have been overlooked, except in the Melsheimer Cata- 

 logue. 



8. T. virgata, testacea, subtiliter pubescens, capite parce punctato, oc- 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



cipite nigro, thorace latitudine duplo brcviore, angulis parum prominulis, 

 disco vage punctato, utrinque profunde oblique impresso vix canaliculate, 

 tnaculis tribus magnis nigris ornato, elytris dense punctatis, vitta suturali al- 

 teraque submarginali latis nigris apice baud conjunctis ; aatennis nigris basi 

 testaceo-maculatis ; sublus fusco-testacea incisuris tarsorum obscuris. Long. 

 •36. 



Middle and Southern States. Distinguished from T. b a c c h a r i d i s by its 

 smaller size, not prominent thoracic angles, and not convergent eljtral vittae. 

 Resembles in elytral markings T. canadensis, but at once known by the 

 more strongly punctured elytra. 



9. T. b re vi c o 1 1 i s, fusco-testacea, occipite parce punctato nigricante, 

 thorace latitudine triplo breviore, angulis anticis prominulis, disco rugose 

 punctato utrinque oblique profunde impresso, raaculis tribus magnis nigris 

 ornato, elytris confertissime subtilius punctatis, vitta suturali alteraque late- 

 rali latis nigris ; margine laterali a humero usque ad medium testaceo ; anten- 

 nis nigris, articulis baseos subtus testaceis ; corpore subtus fusco, pedibus 

 testaceis, fusco-maculatis. Long. -31 — -38. 



Abundant in the Southern States, near the sea coast, one specimen from 

 Kansas. Easily known by the very short thorax and by the black vitta extend- 

 ing to the lateral margin of the elytra, from the middle to the apex, which is 

 therefore not margined with yellow, as in the other species. 



MONOXIA Lee. 



This genus contains small testaceous species, densely clothed with yellow 

 hair, and easily recognized by the ungues being neither cleft, nor appendicu- 

 late. 



The body is elongate, convex ; the head is destitute of the usual impressed 

 lines, the front narrow, not carinate ; the maxillary palpi are rather slender, 

 with the last joint conical, acute, and a little longer than the preceding. The 

 antennae are stout, with the third joint longer than the fourth ; the second 

 joint is half as long as the third. The thorax is rounded on the sides, with 

 the angles prominent, and the disc broadly channelled, with two discoidal im- 

 pressions. The elytra are wider than the thorax, distinctly margined, as ia 

 the smaller species of Galleruca, with the epipleurae sharply defined, and ex- 

 tending to the tip. Pygidium perpendicularly deflexed in both sexes. Front 

 coxae contiguous, conical, prominent ; tibiae not sulcate externally, ungues 

 slender, acute, not toothed, nor dilated at base, in one section, witb a small 

 acute tooth not divergent as in Galleruca in the second section. The deflexed 

 pygidium readily distinguishes this genus, and gives to the ventral surface 

 somewhat the appearance observed in genera allied to C 1 y t h r a. 



A. Ungues slender and entirely simple ; 



Angles of prothorax very prominent 1. angularis. 



Angles of prothorax not prominent; 



Elytra not impressed 2. o b t u sa. 



Elytra impressed 3. g u 1 1 u lat a. 



B. Ungues stouter, with an acute tooth near the tip ; 



Elytra uniformly convex 4. de b i 1 i s. 



Sides compressed, disc obliquely impressed ; 



Elytra strongly punctured 5. conspnta. 



Elytra finely punctured 6. s o r d i d a. 



1. M. a n g u 1 a r i s. Galleruca angularis Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 

 1859, 90. 



California, near San Francisco ? given me by Mr. S. S. Rathvon. Easily 

 distinguished by the very prominent angles of the prothorax. The elytra are 

 finely and densely punctured, and not impressed. 



1865.] 15 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



2. M. obtusa, testacea, pallida pubescens, tborace fortiter dense punctato, 

 latitudine duplo breviore, laleribus rotundatis, angulia postiris obtusis, apice 

 summo dentiformi prominulo ; disco canaliculato et utrinque late impresso, 

 elytris dense punctatis, punctis antice fortioribus ; antennis extrorsum, pec- 

 tore abdomineque infuscatis. Long. '20. 



One specimen from Andover, Mass., (Mr. Sanborn,) and two from Kansas. 

 Of the same size as the preceding and followinpr, but differs from M. an gu- 

 l a r i s by the angles of the thorax not being prominent; from M. g u ttu la ta 

 by the elytra not being impressed at the sides and on the disc ; and from both 

 bv the elytra being not distinctly dotted with black. The punctuation is 

 stronger than in M. a n g u 1 a r i s, and about the same as in M. g u 1 1 u 1 a t a. 

 The disc of the prothorax is sometimes slightly fuscous. 



3. M. gu t tul ata. Galleruca guitulala Lcc.^'Rep. Va.cl&c E. R. Expl., 70. 

 One specimen found by me at San Francisco. Similar in size and shape to 



M. angular is, but the angles of the thorax are not prominent, and the 

 elytra are compressed at the sides, and obliquely impressed behind the hume- 

 ral elevations. 



4. M. deb ills, pallide testacea, dense pallide pubescens, thorace latitu- 

 dine duplo breviore, lateribus rotundatis, angulis po.=ticis minutis prominulis, 

 disco dense punctato late canaliculato utrinque vage impresso, elytris thorace 

 latioribus, profunde punctatis, punctis antice fortioribus, punctis parvis nigris 

 serie 4-plici utrinque ornatis, transversim convexis ; antennis extrorsum fuscis. 

 Long. -15 — '18. 



New Mexico, Mr. Ulke. The pubescen''e is dense and somewhat silvery. 

 The black dots of the elytra are minute, and those of the subsutural series 

 usually coalesce, forming a narrow, abbreviated line ; the humeri are promi- 

 nent and marked with a larger black spot. 



The fifth ventral segment of the male is deeply and narrowly incised. 



This species most closely resembles in appearance M. obtusa, but the 

 claws are distinctly cleft, with the inner portion acute and shorter than the 

 outer one. 



I am disposed to think that G. puncticollis Say, (Journ. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., iii. 458 ; ed. Lee, ii. 222,) is allied to this species, but the elytra are de- 

 scribed as having two vittae on each, which are frequently obsolete, and the 

 tibise and tarsi are black. The comparison made by Say with G. b a c c h a- 

 r i d i s, to which it has no relation whatevei , has rendered the species ob- 

 scure. 



5. M. con s p u ta. Gallernca coTuputa Lee, Rep. Pacific R. R. Expl., 70. 

 San Jose and San Francisco, Gal., on oak leaves. Smaller and narrower 



than G. d e b i 1 i s, with the elytra coarsely punctured, the sides compressed 

 and impressed, and the disc obliquely impressed behind the humeri. 



6. M. 8 r d i d a. Galleruca sordida Lee, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc. Phil., 1858, 88. 

 Colorado Desert, California, two specimens. Very similar in form and color 



to G. consputa, but the elytra are finely punctured, with the punctures 

 almost concealed by the dense golden pubescence. 



The fifth ventral segment of the male in both species is incised at the tip. 



Prodromusof a Monograph of the Species of the Tribe ANOBIINI, of the Family 

 PTINID.E, inhabiting North America. 



BY JOHN L. LE CONTE, M. D. 



In the classification of the Coleoptera of North America, published by the 

 Smithsonian Institution, I proposed, in 1862, an arrangement of the insects 

 allied to the old genus A n o b i u m, by which the number of genera was 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 228 



largely increased. My views were not noticed in the excellent work of Duval,* 

 on the genera of the Coleoptera of Europe, in which, with the addition of some 

 genera not represented in our fauna, the classification remains as before. I 

 subsequently learned, by the reception of the very valuable work of C. G. 

 Thomson,! on the Coleoptera of Skandinavia, that several of the genera re- 

 cognized by me had been previously described by him, and, in fact, so far as 

 his arrangement is applicable to our fauna, I have had occasion to make no 

 changes in the genera as limited by him. Within a few weeks I have received 

 a copy of the admirable work of Mulsant and Rey.J on the Terediles of France, 

 which would, indeed, have been exhaustive, if it had not happened unfortu- 

 nately, that the work of Thomson, above mentioned, remained unknown, to 

 the authors. The result is that all of the genera described by Thomson have 

 received new names in this4ater memoir. 



It has been my endeavor, in the present brief treatise, to harmonise, with 

 the material before me, the views and names contained in the three works 

 quoted, and at the same time to arrange the genera in a more natural manner 

 than has been heretofore proposed. 



It has seemed to me that the gen&ra form a nearly regulafr series, repre-! 

 sented by species, more or less numerous, from those in which the members 

 (antennae and legs) are but slightly contractile, to those in which all are re- 

 ceived in appropriate excavations of the trunk; from those in which the head 

 is scarcely deflexed, to those in which the mandibles in repose fit against the 

 mesosternum, shutting in the under surface of the head and prothorax. 



Considering the variation in form and structure of the antenna', in genera 

 which are evidently closely related, I have regarded the manner in which the 

 body is contracted in repose as of fundamental importance in the classifica- 

 tion of the genera. 



I divide them, therefore, as follows : 



A. Head received in repose upon the under sur- 



face of the prothorax group Anobia. 



Prothorax not excavate beneath, head free., subgroup D ry o p h i 1 i. 

 Prothorax excavated beneath, for reception 



of head subgroup A n o b i a. 



B. Mandibles in repose, resting against the me- 



sosternum group Xylktini. 



Head excavated beneath for reception of an- 

 tennae subgroup Xy 1 e t i n i. 



Antennae received between the coxaj subgroup Dorcatomata. 



In all the subgroups, excepting the first, (in which the contractile power is 

 feebly developed,) there is great difference between the genera in the mecha- 

 nism adopted for the protection of the antennae, and a regular gradation in 

 the power of contractility, as will be readily observed by looking at the tables 

 of genera given below. 



Anobium pudicum ZJoAwn'm, Eugenie's Resa, 86, is said to have been 

 collected in California, but as the localities of the insects of the expedition 

 seem to have been confused, it may be regarded as a doubtful member of our 

 fduna. (Vide E u p ac t u s.) 



I have excluded P t i 1 i n u s from this tribe ; it seems to me, as stated in 

 the Classification of Coleoptera of North America, to represent a separate 

 tribe, leading to the subfamily Boslric/iidce. 



Subgroup I. DRYOPHILI. 

 la the species of this group the body is elongate, the head capable of being 



•Genera des Coleriptdres d'Europe, par M. Jiirquulin Dii Val, (Camille.) 



tScandinaviens Coleoptera syuoptiskt bembetailo nf C. O. Thomson, l.und, 1859 — "863. 



J Hiat. Nttturelle dea ColSopteres de Frau(!e, TOieJiles par K. Mulsant?et CI. Key. Paris, 1864. 



1S65.] 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



only moderately deflexed ; the prothorax not excavated beneath for its recep- 

 tion, and the legs not received in cavities. 



The antennae have the intermediate joints narrow, and the last three dilated 

 and sometimes much elongated; they are not received between the coxae in 

 repose, but rest loosely upon them, and are 11-jointed. in our genera. The 

 anterior aperture of the prothorax is circular. In our genera the thorax is 

 margined, and the elytra are not striate, though European genera exist in 

 which these characters are wanting. The ventral segments are never connate. 

 Our genera are related as follows : 



Anterior coxae contiguous, prominent, conical Ernobius. 



Anterior cox£e separated by the prosternum : 



Presternum moderate, tarsi narrow Ozognathus. 



Prosternum very short, tarsi dilated - Xestobium, 



ERNOBIUS Thorns., Skand. Col. i. 88, (1859 ;) v. 146, (1863.) 



This genus, first recognized by C. G. Thomson, in his excellent work on the 

 Coleoptera of Skandinavia, has been since described by other authors, ag 

 follows: LiozJoum Mulsant & i2?j/, opusc. Ent. xiii. 92, (1863); Coleopt. 

 de France, Terediles, 133, (18G4) ;' D ry o p h i 1 u s Lee, Class. Col. 205, 

 ( 1862) ; Philoxylon Lee, ibid. ; Conophoribium Chevr., Ann. Ent. 

 Tr., 1861, 391. 



I divided the species into two genera, on account of the difference in the 

 length of the prosternum in front of the coxae, but a renewed examination 

 convinces me that this character is of merely specific value. 



The genus will be readily recognized by the characters above given. In ad- 

 dition to them, the middle coxae are nearly contiguous, the tibise are slender, the 

 tarsi are narrow, with the first joint elongated, and the fifth joint not dilated, 

 but slender and elongated. The plates of the hind coxae are very narrow, and 

 not dilated internally. The sixth ventral segment can usually be seen. 



The species known to me may be grouped as follows : 

 ■ Ninth joint of antennae shorter than the 4th — 8th 

 united; (joints 5 — 8 equal in thickness;) 

 5th and 7th longer than sixth ; 

 Thorax not transversely impressed ; 



Sidesof thorax much rounded 1. mollis. 



Sides of thorax less rounded 2. punctulatus. 



Thorax with a vague transverse impression 3. alutaceus. 



Joints 6th, Tth and 8th equal in length 4. d e b 11 i s. 



9th joint of antennse as long as the 4th — 8th united : 



Elytra densely finely granulated 5. g ran u 1 at u s. 



Elytra finely not densely punctulate 6. marginicoll i s. 



9th joint of antennae as long as the 1st — 8th united. ..7. tenuicornis. 



1. E. mollis Thorns., Skand. Col. v. 146; Dermestex mollis Linn.; Ano- 

 bium molle Fabr., &c. ; Liozoum molle? Muls. & Rey ; Anobium convexifrons 

 Mels., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., ii. 309. 



A common European species, introduced in the Atlantic States. The thorax 

 is twice as wide as its length, and is much rounded on the sides, which are 

 broadly margined ; all the angles are rounded ; there are two vague rounded 

 basal impressions, and a scarcely perceptible medial elevation. 



The fifth joint of the antennas is longer than the fourth, the fifth to the eighth 

 joints are equal in thickness, oblong, and the sixth is shorter than the ad- 

 joining ones ; the eighth is a little shorter than the seventh, the ninth, tenth 

 and eleventh are equal in length, and each is a little longer than the seyenth 

 and eighth united. 



2. E. punctulatus. Jno6?«TO//wnc^ Lee, Proc. Acad., 1859, 284. 

 California. Related to the preceding, but the thorax is more transverse, 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 22o 



with the sides much less rounded, and the elytra are less densely punctulate ; 

 the disc of the thorax is obsoletely channelled behind the middle. The pro- 

 portion of the joints of the antenuaj seems scarcely different from E. mollis. 



3. E. alutaceus. Philoxylon alut. Lee, Proc. Ac. 1861, 352. 

 California, one specimen. More elongate than the two preceding species, 



with the sides of the thorax considerably rounded, but the anterior angles 

 more distinct, and less rounded ; the disc is marked with a vague transverse 

 impression in front of the middle ; the elytra are scarcely distinctly punctu- 

 late. The joints, 5 — 8 are less unequal in length than in E. mollis 

 and punctulatus; the ninth is equal in length to the three preceding 

 united, and but very little wider. 



4. E. debilis, oblongus, testaceus, nitidus, dense pallide pubescens, ca- 

 pite thoraceque granulato-punctatis, hoc latitudine plus duplo breviore, latc- 

 ribus expl.matis late rotundatis, angulis omnibus rotundatis, basi utrinque 

 vage impresso, linea dorsali pone medium laevi, scutello tomentoso, elytris 

 punctulatis, thorace hand latioribus : antennis articulo 5to sequi longiore, 

 6 — 8vo aequalibus, 9mo — 11 mo prascedentibus duobus conjunctis singulo long- 

 ioribus et latioribus. Long. -10. 



One specimen from Sta. Barbara, and one from Sta. Cruz Island, California, 

 collected by Mr. C. M. Bache. As stout in form as E. punctulatus, but 

 readily distinguished by the smaller size and different proportion of the joints 

 of the antennae ; the third joint is equal to the fifth, the fourth is somewhat 

 shorter aid about equal in length to the sixth ; the seventh and eighth are 

 each equal to the sixth ; the ninth, tenth and eleventh are about equal in size, 

 and broader than the preceding joints, each one is longer than the seventh 

 and eighth united, and the three together are about equal in length to the 

 joints 2 — 8 united. 



5. E. granulatus, rufescente-fuscus, pube brevi sericea vestitug, sub- 

 opacus, subtiliter dense granulato-punctatus, thorace latitudine plus duplo 

 breviore, lateribus et angulis rotundatis, disco obsolete canaliculato, versus 

 apicem, et ad medium vage transversim impresso, elytris thorace hand latior- 

 ibus ; antennis testaceis articulis 4 et .5 tequalibus, 6, 7, 8 aequalibus mi- 

 noribus, 9mo praecedentibus 5 hand breviore. Long. -20. 



One specimen, collected in Florida by Dr. J. G. Cooper. Quite distinct 

 from all others linown to me, by the upper surface being finely granulated ; 

 the antenna are very nearly as in E. m a r g i n i c o 1 1 i s, but the third joint is 

 one-half longer than the fourth, the fourth and fifth are equal, and together 

 ar;e as long as the sixth, seventh and eighth ; the ninth is fully as long as the 

 five preceding united. The form is less elongated than E. marginicol- 

 1 i s, and is even a little stouter than E. mollis. 



6. E. marginicollis. .i4;io6i«7n war^. Lee, Proc. Acad., 1859, 87. 



One specimen, Oregon. Of much more elongate form, and readily distin- 

 guished by the joints of the antennae, 3—5 being equal in length, 6 — 8 

 shorter, (the seventh being very slightly longer than the othfers) scarcely 

 longer than their width, the ninth as long as the five preceding united, 

 and but slightly broader ; tenth and eleventh each equal in length to the 

 ninth. The thorax is narrower than the elytra, the sides broadly mar- 

 gined, the angles rounded, the disc vaguely impressed in front, and feebly 

 channelled behind j the elytra are very finely punctulate, the prosternum is 

 less abbreviated than in the preceding species, and the fifth joint of the tarsi 

 somewhat shorter. 



*I. E. t e n u i c o r n i 3, modice elongatus, fuscus, nitidus, dense pallide pu- 

 bescens, capite thoraceque fere opacis , confertim granulatis, hoc latitudine 

 duplo breviore, antrorsum angustiore, lateribus valde rotundatis angustius 



1865.] 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



explanatis, scutello tomeatoso, elytris thorace paulo latioribus, dense punc- 

 tulatis ; oculis ((^) maximis,aiiteDnis articulis 9 — 11 linearibus, singulo prae- 

 cedentibus coiijiinctis longiore. Long. -18. 



York Co., Pennsylvania; one male, given me by Dr. Melsheimer. Easih' 

 recognized by the characters given above. The second and fifth joints of the 

 antennffi are equal, and a little longer than their width, the sixth to the eighth 

 joints are shorter, transverse and closely connected ; the ninth is not wider 

 than the others, linear and very elongate, being longer than all the preceding 

 united ; the tenth and eleventh are each equal to the ninth. The prosternura 

 in front of the coxae is less abbreviated than in the species 1 — 4 ; the last joint 

 of the tarsi is longer than usual. The form is less elongated than in E. 

 margini colli s. 



I haTe single individuals, indicating two other species, which seem closely 

 allied to what I have considered as E. m o 1 1 i s, but I am unwilling to de- 

 scribe them, until the discovery of other specimens will enable the specific 

 characters to be defined with greater precision. 



OZOGNATHUS Lee, Class. Col. N. Am,, 205, (1862.) 



In this genus the anterior coxae are narrowly separated by the prosternum, 

 which, in front of the coxae, is longer than usual; the coxae themselves are 

 oval, and not very prominent; the middle coxa? are well separated by the 

 mesosternum, which is flat, declivous and obtu.-ely triangular. The metas- 

 ternum is deeply channelled behind; the hind coxae, are very narrow extern- 

 ally, and moderately dilated internally, with the hind margin obtusely angu- 

 lated ; the sixth ventral segment is visible. The tarsi are narrow, with the 

 last joint elongated. 



The antennae are alike in both sexes, less than half the length of the body, 

 the joints 3 — 8 nearly equal in size but with the fifth and seventh some- 

 what stouter, not longer than their width ; the ninth is as long as the 

 three preceding united, and double their width ; the tenth is about equal in 

 size to the ninth, and the eleventh a little longer; united they are about 

 equal in length to all the preceding joints together. The eyes are small, con- 

 vex and prominent. 



The male differs from the female, by each mandible being ^rmed at its base 

 by a slender cylindrical horn, as long as the head, which rises perpendicularly, 

 and is inflexed and acute at the tip, meeting the horn of the opposite side. 



1. 0. cornutus ice, Class. Col. N. Am., 20G ; Anohium corn. Lee, Proc. 

 Acad., 1859, 87. 



California. Sent me by Mr. Andrew Murray, as having been hatched from 

 some galls received by him from California. 



1. 0. misellus, niger, nitidus, tenuiter pubescens, oapite thoraceque 

 punctulatis, hoc convexo, latitudine duplo breviore, lateribus late rotundalis, 

 elytris parce punctulatis, antenuis basi,tibiis tarsisque piceo-testaceis. Long. 



•05 



One female found by me at San Diego, California. Differs by its very much 

 smaller size, less dense punctures, and by the hind angles of the thor.ax not 

 being acutely prominent. 



XESTOBIUM Motsch. 



Bull. Mosc, 1845, i. 35. Muls. and Rey., Col. de France, Terediles, 119. 

 Synonym. Cnecus Thorns., Skand. CoL, i. 88, (1859;) v. 145, (1863.) 

 As in the preceding genus, the anterior coxae are oval, not prominent, and 

 separated by the prosternum, which, however, is very short in front of the 

 coxsB. The middle coxae are well separated by the mesosternum, which is 

 obtusely triangular. The metasternum is somewhat channelled behind ; the 

 plates of the hind coxae are widely separated and suddenly dilated internally, 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



and the posterior margin is obtusely angulated, as in Ozognathus. But five 

 ventral segments are visible. The tarsi are broad, shorter than the tibiae, 

 the first joint longer, the last joint dilated, furnished with a dense brush be- 

 neath ; the claws are distant and minute. 



The name An o b i u m Fabr., should be retained for this genus, as it is 

 not only the first species described under the genus, (vide Fabr , Ent. Syst. 

 and Syst. El.,) but is the one which Olivier has assumed for the type, and 

 from which his drawings of the trophi were made. Nevertheless, with a 

 view of disturbing the synonymy less, other species have been assumed by 

 European authors as the types of the genus, and 1 have refrained from restoring 

 the generic name to the imported species, by which alone it is thus far 

 represented on this continent. 



1. X. tessellatum Moisch., Bull. Mosc, 1845,1.35; Muls. and Rey , 

 Col. Fr. Terediles, 122. Anob mm tessellatum Fabr., Ent. Syst., i. 236; Syst. 

 EL, i. 321; Oliv Ent., ii. 16, tab. 1, fig. 1, &c. Cnecus tessellaius Thorns., 

 Skand., Col., v. 145. 



Introduced from Europe into the Atlantic States. Our largest species, and 

 varies considerably in size. 



Sub-Group ir. ANOBTA. 



The body is usually elongate in form; the head capable of being strongly 

 deflexed, and resting in repose in the excavated under surface of the pro- 

 thorax ; the antennae are received between the anterior and middle coxae, in 

 a more or less distinct excavation, which is sometimes prolonged into the 

 metasternum. The mandibles do not reach the metasternum in repose, the 

 head is convex beneath, and not excavated for the reception of the antennae. 

 The antenna have the last three joints g'^nerally larger, and the stem usually 

 not serrate, though these characters vary much. The anterior opening of 

 the proth(flrax is circular; the epipleurae are foveate in Petalium and 

 T h e c a ; and the hind feet received in excavations of the first ventral seg- 

 ment in Theca and Eupactus. 



The genera are numerous. Those found in the United States may be 

 grouped as follows : 



I. First ventral segment not excavated for reception of 



hind feet. 

 A. Metasternum not excavated in front ; 



a. Antennae not received between the coxae, but 



resting upon them; 

 Anterior coxjb contiguous ; antennae 9- or 10-jointed Oligomerus. 

 Anterior coxae nearly contiguous; antennae 11- 



jointed Sitodrepa. 



b. Antennse received between the coxaj, which 



are distant ; 



AntennfB subpectinated Ctenobium. 



Antennae not pectinated; 



Thighs strongly clavate, tarsi dilated P t i n o d e s. 



Thighs not clavate, tarsi dilated ; 



Claws armed with a broad tooth Trichodesma. 



Claws not toothed N i c o b i u m. 



Tarsi slender, thighs not clavate H a d r o b r e g m u s. 



B. Metasternum deeply excavated in front ; 



Antennae not serrate, last joints elongated A n o b i u m. 



Antennae serrate, last joints scarcely longer T r y p o j) i ty a. 



C. Metasternum produced in front into a large lobe ..Petalium. 



II. First ventral segment excavated for reception of 



hind feet ; 

 Mesosternum carinatc, epipleurae foveate at middle.. Theca. 

 Metasternum emarginate, epipleurae not foveate Eupactus. 



1865.] 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



OLIGOMERUS Redt., Fauna Austr. 

 Muls. and Rey., Col. Fr. Terediles, 198. 



The European species, 0. brunneus, has 1 0-jointed antennae, but I have 

 recently discovered a species which, without showing any other structural 

 difference, has but nine joints in the antennae. 



The species resemble in the form of antennae certain Hadrobregmi, but 

 may be at once distinguished by the anterior as well as the middle coxae 

 being contiguous, without any intervening cavity for the reception of the 

 antennae. 



The species before me may be separated as follows : 



Sides of thorax feebly serrate, disc scarcely gibbous 1. s ericans. 



Sides of thorax distinctly serrate ; 



Disc slightly gibbous ; antennae 2. o b t u s u s. 



Disc strongly gibbous ; antennae 9-jointed 3. alternans. 



1. 0. s ericans. Anobium sericans Mels., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., ii. 309. 

 0. thoracicus Lee, Class. Col. N. Amer., 205. 



Middle States. I received a specimen of this spfecies from Dr. Melsheimer 

 under the name A. thoracicum, and in citing it did not refer to his original 

 description, by which it appears that the name is a synonym of his A. seri- 

 cans. It will be readily distinguished from the other species by the thorax 

 being but feebly serrate on the sides, with the hind angles not obvious, and 

 the disc very feebly elevated behind the middle, being scarcely gibbous. 

 There are five small but distinct joints between the second joint, and the 

 elongate ones ; the antennae are therefore 10 jointed. The striae of the elytra 

 are strongly punctured, the outer ones are deep, and those towards the suture 

 shallow ; both punctures and stria? become obsolete at the tip. ^ 



2. 0. b t u s u s, elongatus, cylindricus, fusco-ferrugineus, subtiliter se- 

 riceo-pubescens, thorace lateribus serratis, angulis posticis obtusis, distinc- 

 tis, disco punctulato, opaco, ante basin modice elevato ; elytris apice sub- 

 truncatis, striis punctatis, apice baud obliteratis, externis profundioribus. 

 Long. -02. 



One specimen from Vermont, Prof. C. B. Adams. Larger than the preced- 

 ing, of a different color, and quite distinct by the form and sculpture of the 

 thorax, which is distinctly and densely punctulate, more convex, with the 

 disc more elevated in front of the'base ; the sides are more distinctly serrate, 

 the hind angles are obtuse, and but slightly rounded; the refiexed side mar- 

 gin is narrow, and the transverse impressions at the anterior angles are 

 deeper. The antennae are mutilated, but appear to have been 10-jointed. 



3. 0. alternans, nigro-piceus, opacus, pube brevi fusco-cinerea seri- 

 cea dense vestitus, thorace latitudine fere duplo breviore, punctulato, lateri- 

 bus serratis valde rotundatis, angulis posticis baud distinctis, disco valde 

 convexo, leviter canaliculato, postice elevato, gibboso, et utrinque impresso, 

 elytris striis fortiter punctatis externis profundis, interstitiis Imo, 3io, 5to et 

 7mo prominulis versus apicem subreticulatim connexis ; antennis 9-articula- 

 tis. Long. -20. 



One specimen found by me on a fence near Long Branch, New Jersey, July. 

 1865. This species is very distinct, not only by the strongly gibbous thorax, 

 but bv the peculiar sculpture of the elytra; the stria; are more impressed 

 than in the other species; the sutural interval and the alternate ones, as far 

 as the seventh, are more convex than the intervening spaces, and are irregu- 

 larly connected towards the tip by a few anastomosing elevated lines. The 

 antennse are fusco-testaceous ; the third joint is nearly as long as the three 

 following, which are short, but quite distinct; they are followed by the elon- 

 gated joints, each of which is as long as the joints 1 — 6 united, and about 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



twice as broad, though the first of them is broader than the other two, and- 

 is somewhat trianguhir in form ; the antennae are but 9-jointed, the seventh 

 joint, which is conspicuous in the other species, being probably the one 

 which becomes obsolete. The eyes are larger and more prominent than in 

 the specimens of the other species before me, which are females ; the under 

 surtace of the head, as in them, is coarsely punctured at the sides, and finely 

 rugose longitudinally in the gular space. 



SITODREPA Thorns. Skand. Col., v. 166, (1863.) 



Synoni/m. Anobium Lee, Class. Col., 204. Anobium, subg. Arto- 

 b i u m Muls. and Ret/., Col. France, Terediles, 114. 



This genus contains but a single species, which has been introduced from 

 Europe in flour, bread, and other articles of commerce, to all parts of the 

 globe. As it is the most common and the best known species of the Fabri- 

 cian genus A c o b i u m, I preferred, in separating the genera, to retain the 

 original name for this one. It has, however, since been designated by a dis- 

 tinct name in the excellent treatise of Thomson, above cited, and is, more- 

 over, no more entitled to be regarded as the tj'pe than any other of the spe- 

 cies chosen by Thomson, Duval, or Mulsant; under these circumstances, I 

 ^think it proper to adopt the generic name proposed by Thomson. 



The genus will be readilj' recognized by the moderately stout form, and the 

 nearly contiguous anterior coxee, which are conical and prominent; the mid- 

 dle cox£e are but slightly separated by the obtusely triangular mesosternum ; 

 the metasternum is finely channelled; the segments of the abdomen are free, 

 and the plates of the hind coxae moderately dilated inwards. The elytra are 

 finely striate, and the striae are punctured ; the outer strije are deeper, and 

 the margin near the base is somewhat prominent. The antennns are 11-joint- 

 ed, rather short, with the last three joints together about equal in length to 

 the others in the female, but longer in the male. The tarsi are narrow, with 

 th'e joints gradually decreasing in length, the fifth is not slender. 



1. S. p a n i c e a Thorns., Skand. Col , v. 166 ; Dermestes pan. Linn. ; Anobium 

 pan. Fabr., &c. ; Anobium (Artobium) panum Muls. and Rey., Col. France, Tere- 

 diles, 114. 



An. tenuistriatum Say, J'ourn. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. 1V3 ; Ent., (ed. Le Conte,) 

 ii. 288. An. obesum ilels., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 309. 



Common throughout the United States and Canada; found also in Lower 

 California, at Cape San Lucas, by Mr. Xuntus. The sides of the thorax are 

 distinctly serrate. 



CTENOBIUM, n. gen. 



Body slender, cylindrical ; prothorax deeply excavated beneath for recep- 

 tion of head, which is received in repose upon the anterior coxa?. Antennae 

 11-jointed ; first joint thicker, nearly cylindrical ; second smaller and shorter; 

 third equal in length to the second, triangular, about as broad as its length 

 in the female ; fourth to eighth transverse, with the outer angle acutely pro- 

 longed in the female, with the fifth and seventh more prolonged than the 

 others; in the male the third to eighth joints are prolonged externally 

 into a cylindrical branch, twice as long as the joint itself; the ninth and 

 tenth joints are compressed, elongate triangular, and as broad as the pro- 

 longations of the preceding joints ; the eleventh joint is long, oval, and com- 

 pressed ; the three last joints together are equal in length to all the preceding 

 united, in both sexes, and are much longer in the male than the female. 

 Prosternum narrowly separating the anterior coxa-, which are conical and 

 prominent; middle coxre narrowly separated by the mesosternum, which is 

 obtusely rounded behind; metasternum deeply channelled behind; hind 

 coxae with the plates narrow, nearly parallel, not dilated inwards; tibia; 



1865.] 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



slender, not compressed ; tarsi lonnrer than the tibiae, narrow, first joint elon- 

 gated, last joint short, somewhat dilated, claws slender. Abdomen with the 

 ventral segments not connate, equal in length, tip of fifth segment conical, 

 and prominent in both sexes. 



The last joint of the maxillary palpi is elongated, and obtusely subtruncate 

 at tip. 



This genus seems closely allied to Oligomerus, but the anterior coxae are 

 somewhat separated, and the antennae are very different. The elytra are 

 striate, and the punctures of the inner striae are confused, as in Oligomerus 

 s e r i c a n s. 



1. Ct. antennatum. Elongatum, cylindricum piceum opacum, pube 

 Bubtili sericea vestitum, thorace latitudine sesqui breviore, dense subtiliter 

 scabro, lateribus cum basi late rotundatis, disco fere ad basin canaliculato, 

 dein acute elevato, basi vage 4-impres30, elytris thorace 4-plo longioribus, 

 striis punctatis, externis profundis, iuternis subconfusis ; antennis pedibusque 

 ferrugiueis. Long. -20 — -25. 



Mas antennis corporis dimidio longioribus, articulis intermediis longius 

 pectinatis. 



Femina antennis corporis dimidio fere brevioribus, articulis intermediis 

 breviter pectinatis. 



Virginia: four specimens kindly given me by Dr. S. Lewis. The sides of* 

 the thorax are not serrate, the refiexed margin is very narrow, and extends 

 around the anterior angles upon the apex. The disc is convex, gibbous, 

 strongly channelled until within a short distance of the base, where it is in- 

 terrupted by the gibbosity; the latter is bounded behind by two converging 

 impressions, outside of which on each side is a feeble elevation, and then a 

 transverse impression, extending to the sides. The hind angles are not ob- 

 vious. The internal striae of elytra are not impressed, and their punctures 

 are confused ; the striae near the margin are impressed and regular punctured. 



PTINODES Lee, Class. Col , 204. 



Body elongate, convex, pubescent, and clothed with long, erect hairs. Pro- 

 thorax excavated beneath for the reception of the head, disc gibbous, not 

 channelled. Eyes convex, moderate in size, prominent. Antenna rather 

 stout, joints 3 — 8 nearly equal, the outer ones slightly transverse ; ninth 

 and tenth each longer than the three preceding, and somewhat wider, oblong ; 

 eleventh a little longer, oval. The ninth to tenth somewhat longer than all 

 the preceding united. Prothorax narrowed behind, not contiguous to the 

 trunk ; presternum obtusely truncate behind, separating widely the anterior 

 coxfe, which are conical and prominent; middle coxae prominent, well sepa- 

 rated by the mesosternum, which is truncate (?) behind ; metasternum not 

 sulcate ; hind coxaj with the plate very narrow, scarcely visible. Abdomen 

 with the ventral segments smooth, sparsely hairy, not connate, the fourth 

 shorter than the others, which are equal. Thighs strongly clavate, tibiae not 

 comprf'ssed, with external rows of long hairs ; tarsi shorter than the tibiae, 

 stout, first joint very slightly elongated, fifth joint dilated, claws broadly di- 

 lated at base. 



The separation between the prothorax and trunk, as well as the clavate 

 femora, easily distinguish this genus, and cause the resemblance to P tin us, 

 which has suggested the name. 



1. Pt. setifer i/^c. Class. Col., 205; Anohium setiferitm Lee., Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., 1858, 73. 



One specimen was collected by me at San Diego, California. 



TRICHODESMA Lee. 

 Body oblong, rather stout, pubescent, and clothed with erect setse and tufts 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



of fine dense hair; prothorax gibbous above and marked with small rounded 

 tubercles, excavated beneath for the reception of the head. Elytra granulate, 

 and with indistinct rows of large punctures. Eyes small, convex; antennae 

 11-jointed, last three joints elongated, not longer together than all the pre- 

 ceding united in the female, but longer in the male; first moderately dilated, 

 second not so stout, and shorter than the first, third as long as the second, 

 but more slender, fourth to eighth nearly equal, oblong, a little longer than 

 their width. Prosternum widely truncate behind, anterior coxje distant, 

 small^ rounded, prominent ; mesosternum broadly concave, with a slightly 

 elevated ridge each side beyond the middle coxae, which are widely separated ; 

 tip broadly truncate, closely joined with the metasternum ; the lattt-r is 

 marked with a very short furrow behind; the hind coxed are distant, and 

 their plates are moderately and somewhat suddenly dilated inwards. The 

 ventral segments are not connate, though they appear more closely united 

 than usual ; the second and third segments are a little longer than the others. 

 Legs rather short, thighs feebly clavate, tibiae slender, pubescent, and with 

 fringes of long hairs ; tarsi short, broadly dilated, joints about equal in 

 length, fifth broad, triangular, hairy beneath like the others, claws distant, 

 dilated at base into a broad semi-transparent tooth. The last joint of the 

 palpi is broadly truncate at tip. 



1. T. gib bo sum iec. Class. Col., 205. Anobium ffibbosiim Sajf Jonra. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. 171, (ed. Le Conte, ii. 280.) 

 Middle States. Our most conspicuous species. 



NICOBIUM Lee, Class. Coll., 204, (1862.) 



Synonym. Anobium, subgenus N e o b i u m, Muls. and Rey., Col. France, 

 Terediles, 106, (1864.) 



This genus, represented only by the introduced European Anobium h i r t u m, 

 differs from the preceding by the less gibbous thorax, the claws not toothed, 

 but slightly broader at the base, and by the regularly striate elytra. The 

 form of body is rather stout and convex, with the thorax separated from the 

 elytra and a little narrower than them. The sterna, coxae, and tarsi are as in 

 Trichodesma, but the thighs are not at all clavate, and the claws are not 

 appendiculate. 



1. N. hirtum. Anobium hirlum Illiger, iMag. vi. 19, &c. An. {Xeolium) 

 hirtum Muls. and Rey., Terediles, 106. 



I have one specimen in my collection, marked as found in the Southern 

 States, probably in Georgia ; it is incorrectly referred to in the Class. Col. 

 N. America, p. 205, as Anobium sericeum Muls. 



The species will readily be recognized by the striae composed of large 

 quadrate punctures, and the interstices furnished with single rows of sub- 

 erect hairs, longer than the pubescence. 



HADllOBREGMUS Thomson, Skand. Col., i. 89, (1859.) 



Synonyms. H e m i c oe 1 u s, p. />^c.. Class. Coll. N. Am., 204, (1862.) C a c o- 

 t e m n u s Lcc, ibid. A n o b i u m, p. Muis. and Rey., Col. Fr. Terediles, C2. 



The body is long and subcylindrical ; the thorax gibbous or tuberculate, 

 excavated beneath for the reception of the head, hind angles not obvious, 

 except in H. foveatus. Elytra with regular punctured striee. Antenn© 

 varying according to the division; in the second, 11-jointed, with the inter- 

 mediate joints well defined, and the last three not very much longer than 

 the preceding united ; in the first division (C ac o t e m n u s) 10-jointed, the 

 last three joints much longer than the joints 1 — 7 united. 



Prosternum subtruncate behind, separating the anterior coxa;, which are 

 prominent and flattened in front ; mesosternum concave, truncate behind, 



1865.] 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



separating the middle coxae, and leaving a cavity for the reception of the 

 last joints of the antennae. Metasternum channelled behind; hind coxa 

 separated, plates very slightly dilated behind, first equal to the second, ex- 

 cept in H. foveatus. Ventral segments not connate. Legs moderate, 

 thighs not at all clavate, tibiae slender, tarsi not shorter than the tibiae, nar- 

 row, first and second joints elongated, fifth rather broad, claws small, not 

 toothed. 



Our species may be grouped as follows : 



A. Antennas 10-jointed; hind angles of thorax rounded; 



Disc of thorax slightly gibbous and compressed behind ; 



Sides sinuous near the front angles 1. e r r a n s. 



Sides regularly rounded in front 2. carinatus. 



Disc of thorax strongly gibbous ; 



Sides of thorax subparallel 3. linearis. 



B. AntenntB 11-jointed; hind angles of thorax rounded; 



(thorax strongly gibbous ;) 



Sides of thorax nearly straight 4. p u m i 1 u s. 



Sides of thorax constricted in front 5. g i b i co 11 i s. 



C. Antennae 11-jointed ; hind angles of thorax distinct 6. foveatus. 



A. Anlennsc lO-j'ointed ; (Cacotemsus Lee.) 



1. H. errans. Anobium errans Mels., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., ii. 309. 

 Middle States and Lake Superior. The disc of the thorax is but slightly 



gibbous behind; the base and sides are rounded, so that the hind angles are 

 not apparent : the sides converge in front, and are impressed so as to become 

 sinuous near the anterior angles, which are distinct. 



2. H. carinatus. Anobium car. Sav, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., ii. 

 187 ; ed. Lee , ii. 120. 



' A very large specimen from Pennsylvania ('26 unc.) has the thorax rather 

 broader, with the sides more rounded and less impressed at the anterior angles 

 than in H. e r r a n s. 



3. H. linearis, valde elongatus, fuscus, sericeo-pubescens, thorace 

 latitudine haud breviore, lateribus antice fere parallelis, augulis posticis baud 

 conspicuis, anticis subrectis, disco scabro, postice alte elevato, antice obso- 

 lete canaliculato, elytris striis profunde punctatis, antennis 10-articulatis. 

 Long. -20. 



One male specimen from Hudson Bay Territory, about the Saskatchewan 

 region. The sides of the thorax are very broadly impressed near the ante- 

 rior angles, and are nearly parallel for more than two-thirds the length, and 

 are serrate as in H. errans. The disc is considerably elevated in front 

 of the base, the elevation becoming gradually broader and indistinct in front, 

 a feeble dorsal impressed line can be observed, which is more obvious upon 

 the elevated portion ; there is also a very feeble lateral accessory tubercle. 

 The elytia are parallel, and the tip is obtusely rounded. The joints four to 

 seven of she antennas are equal and about as long as their width ; the eighth 

 is as long as the five preceding united, and about twice as long as its width ; 

 the ninth and tenth are each a little longer than the eighth joint. 



B. Antennx W-jointed ; (Hemiccelus Lee.) 



4. H. p u m i 1 u s, valde elongatus, castanco-rufus, sericeo-pubescens, 

 thorace subtiliter punctato latitudine haud breviore, antrorsum paulo an- 

 gustato, lateribus fere rectis angulis posticis rotundatis, anticis subrectis, 

 dorso postice alte elevato, et gibboso, medio breviter canaliculato, dein cari- 

 nato, ad basin et versus latera late impresso, elytris punctis quadratis stri- 

 atim positis, interstitiis planis ; antennis ll-articulatis. Long. -11 — -14. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Two specimens, Monmouth Co., New Jersey ; collected in the sweeping net. 

 Easily distinguished by the small size and 11-joiuted antennae. 



The sides of the thorax converge in front and are nearly straight, and 

 strongly margined; the anterior angles are subacute, and the hind ones are 

 rounded; the disc is very acutely elevated in front of the base, and com- 

 pressed from the top of the elevation to the base ; the front declivity of the 

 elevation is channelled ; a distinct impression runs obliquely from the base 

 of the elevation to the anterior angles, and the base each side is transversely 

 impressed ; the accessory tubercles are thus rendered more obvious than in 

 the preceding species. 



The striae of the elytra are scarcely impressed, the punctures are large 

 and quadrate, and the intervals flat; the tip is obtusely rounded. The joints 

 of the antenna, fourth to eighth, are small, and nearly equal; the ninth is 

 as long as the six preceding united ; the tenth is as long as the ninth, and 

 the eleventh, as usual, a little longer. 



5. H. g i b b i c 1 1 i s. Anobium gibbicolle Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1859, 

 284. 



One specimen from California. The disc of the thorax is still more ele- 

 vated than in H. p u m i 1 u s, the impressions still deeper ; the sides do not 

 converge in front, and are deeply bisinuate ; the anterior angles are promi- 

 nent, but not acute at tip. 



C. Anicnnse W-jointed ; hind angles of thorax distinct. 



6. H. f V e a t u s. Anobium foveatum Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am , iv. 190. 



Northern portion of the United States and in Canada. This species dif- 

 fers in several important respects from the others aud should very likely be 

 separated as a distinct genus. The hind angles of the thorax are quite dis- 

 tinct, the base, instead of being rounded, is sinuous each side aud prolonged 

 at the middle; the sides are straight and parallel; the disc is tuberculate 

 each side, broadly excavated in the middle, and but feebly carinate at base. 

 The first ventral segment is obviously shorter than the second ; the tarsi are 

 less slender, more distinctly dilated, and the second joint is scarcely longer 

 than the third. 



ANOBIUM Fabr. (emend. Thoms., loc. cit., 1859 ) 



Synonym.. Coelostethus Lee, Class. Col. N. America, 204. 



The name Anobium has been restricted by Thomson to those species in 

 wiiich the thorax is excavated beneath for the reception of the head, and the 

 pectoral excavation for the reception of the antennae prolonged into the 

 metasternun*. As he was the first author who has divided the species com- 

 posing the old genus upon structural characters, it is proper that his right 

 to select that genus for which the name is to be retained should be recog- 

 nized. The modern idea of types for genera cannot be rigorously applied 

 to tliose founded by the older authors, and the attempt to do so has been 

 productive of much confusion. The author who first distinguishes the com- 

 posite elements of a genus to whicii no type is definitely assigned by the 

 founder may certainly use his judgement in applying the original name 

 to any one of the new genera which contains species of the original author. 

 This judgment once exercised constitutes a kind of priority, which must 

 be respected, in order to prevent the inconvenience of applying the old name 

 to several diS'erent genera, according to the ideas of subsequent commenta- 

 tors. Our species are but two in number. 



1. A. quadrulum Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1859, 87. 

 Puget yound. 



2. A. no tatu m Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. 172 ; (ed. Le Conte, ii. 281.) 

 Middle and Northern States. 



1865.] 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



TRYPOPITYS Redt. 



la this genus the thorax is deeply excavated beneath for the s^cception of 

 the head, and the pectoral excavation is prolonged into the metasternum, as 

 in A n b i u m, but the antennae are serrate, with the second joint shorter 

 than the third ; the third to the seventh are triangular, and gradually a little 

 longer; the eighth to the tenth become gradually less triangular, they are 

 nearly equal in length, and each is a little longer than the seventh ; the 

 eleventh is still longer, and somewhat pointed. The first ventral segment 

 is bounded behind by a distinct suture, but the other sutures are obliterated. 



The last joint of the labial palpi is triangular, and broadly truncate. 



Our two species may be distinguished thus : 



Punctures of elytral striae large, quadrate s e r i c e u s. 



Punctures of elytral striae smaller, oblong p u n c t a t u 8. 



1. T. sericeus Lee, Say's Ent. Writings, ii. 280. Xyletinus sericeus Say, 

 Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. 172, (ed. Lee, 1. c, sup.) 



Atlantic States ; generally diffused. 



2. T. p u n c t a t u s Lee, Col. Kansas, (Smithsonian Contr.,) p. 13. 

 New Mexico, near Santa Fe. 



PETALIUM Lee, Class. Col. N. Am., 204, (1862.) 



Body elongate, prothorax closely united with the trunk, excavated beneath 

 for the reception of the head, which is small and convex, both above and be- 

 neath. The eyes are large and not very convex ; the antennae are half as 

 long as the body ; the first joint is long and moderately thick, the second 

 joint is nearly as wide as the first, and about as long as its width ; the third 

 and fifth are transverse and triangular ; the fourth, sixth and seventh are nar- 

 rowed and smaller, the eighth is still smaller, and only visible with a very 

 hin'h power ; the ninth is triangular, and as long as the third and eighth in- 

 clusive ; the tenth is similar, and equal to the ninth ; the eleventh is a little 

 longer, oval and somewhat poin;ed. The last joint of the palpi is fusiform 

 and acute. 



The prosternum is extremely short, the anterior coxse are conical, and rise 

 perpendicularly, leaving a wide intervening cavity. The mesosternum is 

 deeply excavated longitudinally, and is overshadowed by the metasternum so 

 as to be visible only on dissection. The metasternum is long, deeply sulcate 

 at posterior half, prolonged in front into a very large, slightly convex lobe, 

 which extends over the mouth in repose ; towards the sides the anterior por- 

 tion of the sternum is declivous, and' hollowed transversely for the reception 

 of the middle feet; there is a deep transverse excavation for the reception of 

 the middle tarsi each side of the metasterual lobe. The first ventral segment 

 is short, not excavated for the reception of the hind feet ; the second segment 

 is as long as the three following united. The feet are moderate, thighs rather 

 long, tibia; slender, tarsi short, stout, moderately dilated. The epipleurae are 

 hollowed ou' below the humeri for the reception of the middle knees, and fo- 

 veate about the middle for the hind knees. 



I have been thus particular in the description of this singular genus, on ac- 

 count of the ditficulty of placing it properly in the system. By the approxi- 

 mation of the metasternum to the head, and the reception of the middle feet 

 in excavations, it is related to Dorcatoma, but the form of the body, the struc- 

 ture of the antennai and head are those of Anobium. The head, although 

 protected in part by the prolonged metasternum, does not touch it in any 

 position. 



By the epipleurae foveate for the reception of the hind knees, this genus 

 resembles T h e c a. 



But one species is known to me. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



1. P. b i s triat u m. Zfc, Class. Col. 205. Anobiuin bistr. Say, Joura. Acad. 

 Nat. Sc, V. 172; (ed. Leconte, ii. 281.) 



Not uncommon throughout the Middle, Southern and Western States. 

 Easily recognized by its very small size, elongate form, by the two stri<e of 

 the elytra next the margin being deep, while the others are merely rows of 

 punctures, becoming obsolete behind. The color is usually nearly black, 

 with the feet yellow. 



THECA Muls. & Rey. 



Body oval, moderately elongated, narrowed in front, convex; head convex 

 beneath, not at all excavated for reception of the antenn;u ; when deflexed, 

 received in a very deep excavation of the under surface of the prothorax, 

 which is nearly closed behind; antennje 11-jointed, rather short, received 

 under the head, in the protboracic excavation. First joint large auriculate, 

 second slender, oblong, 3 — G small, seventh acutely prolonged inwards, 

 eighth also prolonged inwards, short, but nearly as wide as the ninth, 

 the 9 — 10 large, dilated, triangular, eleventh somewhat longer, oval ; the 

 last three united, longer than the preceding joints ; palpi with the last 

 joint securiform. Prosternum not visible, except on dissection, short, de- 

 clivous ; front coxae nearly contiguous, horizontal ; mesosternum compressed 

 and elevated in the form of a spear head, between and in front of the middle 

 and anterior coxae, extending to the protboracic cavity; middle cox;« not 

 widely separated, legs received in deep excavations of the meso- and meta- 

 thorax. Jletasternum rather short, deeply channelled, declivous in front and 

 excavated for reception of middle legs, narrowly truncate at the middle. 

 First ventral segment excavated for reception of hind legs. Legs rather 

 feeble, tibiae slightly compressed, tarsi short, the first joint somewhat elon- 

 gated. Elytra with all the strias deeply impressed, epipleurae foveate at the 

 middle for reception of hind knees. 



The position of this genus is somewhat doubtful. The antennae do not lie 

 in repose between the coxae, that space being occupied by the elevated me- 

 sosternum. The head, however, is not excavated beneath for the reception 

 of the antennae, and the head is also prevented from reaching the metaster- 

 num by the interposition of this piece. The form of the body suggests rather 

 an affinity with A n ob i u m than with Dorcatoma, orXyletinu s, and I, 

 therefore, regard it as an aberrant member of the present group, in which we 

 have had already (P e t a 1 i u m) an instance of anomalous and excessive de- 

 velopment of the metasteraum, simulating the form observed in the genera 

 allied to Dorcatoma. 



1. Th. profunda, elongato-ovalis, convexa, antice attenuata, nigro picea, 

 griseo-pubescens, capite punctulato, thorace lateribus obliquis rectis, rude 

 baud dense punctato, elytris striis aequaliter profundis, in fundo punctatis, 

 interstitiis planis vix punctulatis ; abdomine punctulato, metasten.o rude 

 punctato. Long. -085 — -10. 



One specimen from Pennsylvania, and another from Lake Superior. 



EUPACTUS Lee. 



Body elongate, oval, very convex, smooth. -shining, glabrous, head with two 

 deep frontal lines before Ihe^yes, and a deep transverse suture separating a 

 small flat clypeus. Eyes large, moderately convex, entire, tolerably finely 

 granulated. Antennae ll-jointed ; first joint large, curved ; second joint as 

 wide as, but much shorter, than the first, and suddenly curved inwards ; third 

 joint much narrower, triangular, 4 — 8 as wide as the third, short, transverse ; 

 ninth large, compressed, triangular, but not prolonged inwards, about twice 

 as long as its width, and equal in length to the joints 2 — 8 united ; tenth tri- 

 angular, as wide as the ninth, truncate at tip, clo.5cly applied to the eleventh, 

 which is obtusely rounded at the extremity ; the tenth and eleventh together 



1865.1 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



form a mass a little longer than the ninth joint. Palpi with the last joint 

 oval, truncate (?). Head convex beneath, with a deep, nearly semicircular 

 excavation behind the mentum ; the bottom of this excavation is smooth, but 

 opake ; mentum large, trapezoidal. Mandibles strongly dilated at the base. 

 Prothorax narrowed in front, and rounded at the apex, deeply excavated be- 

 neath for reception of head. Prosternum short, concave, declivous, widely sepa- 

 rating the anterior cosas, which rise to the level of the metasternum, and arc 

 dilated into a transverse, horizontal plate. Mesosternum invisible, (probably 

 concave, and nearly perpendicular.) Metasternum tolerably large, uot chan- 

 nelled ; produced in front between the middle coxae into a short and deeply 

 emarginated lobe, which receives the end of the antennae; declivous each 

 side at the anterior part, and deeply excavated for the reception of the middle 

 feet, excavaiion distinctly limited by an elevated line; side pieces very nar- 

 row, nearly concealed by the elyt'^i. Plates of hind coxae gradually widened 

 externally. First ventral segment deeply excavated for reception of hind feet ; 

 segments 2 — 4 graduallj' diminishing in length, the third and fourth sutures 

 double, (that is, composed of two approximate lines.) Legs slender, tibiae 

 not dilated, tarsi robust, first joint scarcely longer. Elytra uniformly 

 sparsely punctured, entirely destitute of striae or rows of punctures. 



This singular genus is remarkable for the form of the antenna. The dila- 

 tation of the anterior coxae shows a relation to Theca, while the manner in 

 which the antennae are folded between the coxa?, in a sternal excavation re- 

 calls the more typical Ano b ia. In the arrangement of the sternal pieces, 

 and close contractility of the feet. some resemblance toChelonarium can 

 also be observed. It resembles very much the figure of Mesoccelopus n i g e r, 

 Duval, but in that genus the antennae are serrate. 



1. Eu. nitid us,elongato-ovalis,convexus, niger nitidu3,glaber, supra parce 

 subtilitcr punctatus, abdomiue punctato, metasterno parce fortius punctate, 

 antennis piceis, tibiis tarsisque dilutioribus. Long. -09 — 12. 



Western States, Kentucky, (Mr. Wild,) Illinois, (Mr. Walsh.) I have also 

 a specimen marked as collected by Mr. Xantus, at Cape San Lucas, but I re- 

 gard the locality as doubtful. The surface above is sparsely and finely punc- 

 tured, the punctures at the middle of the thorax and hinder part of the elytra 

 being less distinct ; the thorax is a little wider than its length, narrowed in 

 front, rounded at the apex, feebly bisinuate at base, transversely very convex, 

 sides not margined, the true margin being very much inflexed. Elytra des- 

 titute of striae, suture feebly elevated. Beneath the abdomen is tolerably 

 densely punctured, the third and fourth ventral sutures composed of two ap- 

 proximate lines ; the metasternum sparsely but strongly punctured, middle 

 and front feet densely punctulate ; inflexed sides prothorax densely punctured. 



2. Eu. puuctulatus, ovalis valde convexus, niger nitidus, glaber sab- 

 tiliter parce puuctulatus, elytris prope basin intra humeros oblique impressis. 

 Long. "12. 



One specimen from Louisiana, in Mr. Hike's collection. Differs from Eu. 

 nitidus by the broader form, and much more finely punctured elytra : the 

 basal impression is quite distinct, and is just inside of the humeral elevation. 

 No trace of a similar impression is visible in the five specimens of the pre- 

 ceding species now before me. 



3. Eu. p u d i c u s, subcylindricus, piceus opacus, alutaceus, dense subtiliter 

 sericeo-pubescens, obsolete baud dense puuctulatus, antennis rufo-piceis, ar- 

 ticulis duobus ultimis arete applicatis, praecedente conjunctis longiore. 

 Long. •\Q. 



? Anobium pudicum Boheman, Eugen. Resa, 86. 



One specimen from Lower California, given me by Mr. Ulke. Very 

 different in form and appearance from Eu. nitidus, but without any marked 

 generic distinction. The form is a little more robust than Ernobiua mol- 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



1 i 8 ; the lustre is somewhat leaden, owing to the very fine and dense sericeous 

 pubescence with which it is clothed. The 9th joint of the antennas is flat, 

 nearly oblong, and more than twice as long as its width ; the lOth is trian- 

 gular, and narrowed at the base; closely joined to the llth, which is not 

 longer than its width, shorter than the lOth, and rounded at tip; the lOtb 

 and llth together are shorter than the 9th, 



The antennae are described by Boheman as having but two elongated ter- 

 minal joints ; unless the student would consider such a form impossible in 

 this type, the union between the 10th and llth joints might be readily over- 

 looked, and the antenna thus erroneously described. 



SuBGEOup III. XYLETINI. 



The species of this subgroup are generally oval in form, rarely subclongate, 

 find, except in some species of Xyletinus, have the contractile power consid- 

 erably developed. The head, when inflexed, extends beyond the excavated 

 ander surface of the prothorax, over the mesosternum, so that the man- 

 dibles attain the metasternum, and in most the genera lie in close apposition 

 with its anterior margin. The head is deeply excavated each side in the gu- 

 lar region for the reception of the antennae, which in repose are curved into 

 these cavities, and do not lie between the coxae. The front coxae are contig- 

 uous and depressed ; the middle feet are frequently received in excavations 

 of the meso- and metasternum, and the knees rest in a subhumeral cavity of 

 the epipleurae. The first ventral segment is sometimes excavated for the re- 

 ception of the hind legs, sometimes not ; the epipleurae are foveate for the 

 hind knees in P r o t h e c a. The metasternum is never prolonged and lobed 

 in front of the middle coxre, as in the next subgroup, but is broadly truncate, 

 on a line with the coxae, when the latter are widely separated. The mandi- 

 bles are always broadly dilated at the base. The antennae are variable in 

 shape, being sometimes serrate or subpectinate, and sometimes having the 

 last three joints dilated, forming a long, loose club. 



The European genera Mesothes and Mesocoelopus, with the first ventral seg- 

 ment excavated for reception of the hind feet, the antennae serrate, and the 

 front coxae contiguous, probably belong to this subgroup. 



Elytra striate, antennae serrate Xyletinus. 



Elytra not striate ; first ventral segment not 

 excavated : 



Antennae serrate L as i o de r m a. 



Antennae with the last three joints large 7 C a t o r ama. 



First ventral segment excavated : 



Epipleurae not foveate at the middle Hemiptychus. 



Epipleurae foveate at the middle P r o th e[c a. 



XYLETINUS Latr. 

 Our species differ notably in form; in the first the body is cylindrical, 

 and the head but feebly excavated beneath for the reception of the antennae ; 

 in the others (typical Xyletinus) the head deeply excavated each side beneath. 

 The metasternum is declivous in front, but the declivous portion is not sharply 

 defined by a transverse line, as in the two following genera. 



1. X. p e 1 1 at u s. Anohlum pcUatum Harris, Trans. Hartf. Nat. Hist. Soc, 

 T5. Throughout the Atlantic States, not common. 



2. X. mucoreus, cylindricus, piceus opacus, alutaceus, dense sericeo- 

 pubescens, thorace punctulato convexo, latitudine duplo breviore, lateribus 

 obliquis paulo rotundatis, angulis posticis valde obtusis rotundatis, elytris 

 fltriis subtilius punctatis, interstitiis planis parce subtiliter punctulatis-; palpii 

 antennisque ferrugineis, his articulo primo piceo. Long. ^(J. 



One specimen from Louisiana in the collection of Mr. Ulke. Resembles 



1865.] 16 




238 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



somewhat X. peltatus, but is very much larger, and rather stouter, and 

 the head is more excavated beneath. 



3. X. fucatu s, elongato-ovalis, convexus, niger, subtiliter pubescens, ca- 

 pite tboraceque subtiliter reticulato-punctatis, hoc latitudine triplo breviore, 

 lateribus valde rotundatis, antice late explanatis, margine obscure ferrugiueo, 

 dorso modice convexo, ad basin linea brevi la^vi subelev^ta, elytris striis pro- 

 fundis impunctatis, interstitiis planis, alutaceis ; antennispedibusque ferrugi- 

 ueis, illis articulo Imo uigricante. Long. -18. 



Eagle Harbor, Lake Superior ; three specimens. 



4. X. p a Hi du s, dilute piceo-ferrugineus, elongatus, pallide sericeo-pu- 

 bescens, capite thoraceque dense punctulatis, hoc brevi, lateribus late rotun- 

 datis, angulis omnibus apice rotundatis, disco convexo, linea dorsali pone 

 medium laevi subelevata, elytris dense rugose punctulatis, striis parum im- 

 pressis punctatis ; antennarum articulo 2ndo triangular!, sequentibus vix 

 minore. Long. -12. 



A single specimen collected at Cape San Lucas, Lower California, by Mr. 

 Xantus. The antennae (male) are but little shorter than the body, the joints 

 are broad and triangular, the second being scarcely smaller than the third ; 

 the eyes are very large and prominent. This species resembles X. pellatua 

 more than the preceding, but differs from both by the punctured and scarcely 

 impressed stria of the elytra. 



LASIODERMA Stephens, Illust. 5, 417. 



-Syn. Pseudochina, subg. Hyp ova,3fuls. ^ Rey, Col. Fr. T^r^diles, 294. 

 The metasternum is declivous in front, with the declivous portion sharply 

 defined by a transverse elevated line, extending entirely across the trunk. 



1. L. s e r r i c o r n e. Ptinus serric. Fabr. Ent. Syst., L 241; Syst. EI. 

 Pseudochina [Ilypora) serric. Muls. & Rey, Terediles, 307. Ptilinus testaceus 

 Duftschm. Xyletinus testaceus Sturm., &c. Lasioderma testaceum Stephens, HI. 

 V. 417. 



Carried by commerce over the whole globe ; lives chiefly, though not ex- 

 clusively, upon tobacco ; I have found it, also, in the powder of capsicum. 



Mr. Chevrolat, (Ann. Ent. Soc. Fr., 1861, 390,) refers this species to C a t o- 

 ram a, but subsequently has corrected the error; he considers Pt. testaceus 

 Duftschm., as a different species. Xyletinus pallidus Lap., Hist. Nat., iv. 295, 

 is also cited by him as a synonym, but I have had no opportunity of verifying 

 it; I accept it with hesitation, as Ptilinus pollens Germ., Ins. Nov. 79, a spe- 

 cies with striate elytra, is also quoted under the same name [pallidus.) 



2. L. dermestinum, elongato-ovale, convexum, nigro-piceum, subti- 

 liter griseo-sericeo pubescens, subtilissime alutaceum, thorace latitudine baud 

 breviore, antrorsum subangustato, apice valde rotundato, basi truncate, an- 

 gulis anticis valde deflesis rectis, posticis obtusis subrotundatis, elytris tho- 

 race plus duplo longioribus ; antennis pedibusque testaceis. Long. -11 — -13. 



Cape San Lucas ; collected by Mr. Xantus, and given me by Mr. H. Ulke. 

 In the two specimens before me, I can merely see that the antennae are reddish 

 yellow, without distinguishing particularly the relation of the joints to each 

 other. This species resembles in form a small A 1 1 agen u s, and is much 

 less stout than L. serricorne. 



7CAT0RAMA Gu6r. 



The species which I have referred to this genus differs from C. t a b a c i, the 

 type described by Guerin (Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1850, 431,) by the last joint of the 

 palpi being truncate, but not emarginate. There is, however, not a complete uni- 

 formity in the different species of Xyletinus in this respect, and I have, there- 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



fore, preferred placing the insect in question in the present genus, to multiply- 

 ing unnecessarily the divisions already proposed. 



The body is oval and convex, very similar to Hemiptychus, but the first ventral 

 segment is not excavated for the reception of the hind feet. The metasternum 

 is declivous in front, with the declivous part limited by a transverse line, pre- 

 cisely as in Lasioderma s e rr ic o rn e, (which it resembles in appearance, 

 though larger), except that the line becomes obsolete towards the sides. The 

 anterior and middle coxs are contiguous, as in the species just named. The 

 antennffi are 11-jointed, with the first joint curved and moderately dilated, the 

 second longer and thicker than the third ; 3 — 8 equal in thickness, the third 

 longer, the others about as long as their width ; ninth and tenth large, com- 

 pressed, triangular, ninth as long as the five preceding united, tenth a little 

 longer, eleventh as long as the tenth, and a Utile narrower, oval, rounded at the 

 tip. The head beneath is as deeply excavated as in L. serricorne; the 

 front is obtusely impressed in the same manner. The tibiae are compressed, 

 with two elevated lines externally ; the tarsi are dilated, with the first joint 

 moderately elongated, the second equal to the third, and the fifth clavated and 

 depressed. The eyes are uniformly convex, moderately granulated, as in La- 

 sioderma, and not at all emarginate. 



1. C. s i m p 1 e X, longius ovale, convexum, nigro-fuscum, pube helva sericeo- 

 pubescens, opacum alutaceum, punctulatunx; thorace medio dense, lateribua 

 parce punctato, brevi antice subtruncato, basi cum lateribus rotundatis, an- 

 gulis posticis nullis, anticia impressis valde deflexis, (lateraliter visis acutis,) 

 elytris thorace triplo longioribus, baud punctaiis ; antennis pedibusque testa- 

 ceis. Long. -14 — -18. 



Two specimens, collected in Kentucky, by Mr. J. H. Wild. 



HEMIPTYCHUS Lee. 



Synonym. Dorcato ma Lee, Class. Col., 204. 



This new genus completes the passage from the preceding genera to Dorcato- 

 ma, from which it differs by the anterior coxae being contiguous, as in L as io- 

 d e r m a ; by the prosternum being short, and not prolonged into two processes 

 behind ; the mesosternum being flat, perpendicular and triangular, and the 

 metasternum without medial chacnel, not produced in front, but straight, with 

 a very small protuberance at the middle between the middle coxae. The eyes 

 are coarsely granulated, not uniformly convex as in Catorama, but compressed 

 longitudinally at the side, and very feebly emarginated in front. The antennas 

 are 10-jointed, the first joint large auriculate, second much smaller, somewhat 

 dilated, 3 — 7 narrow, very small, closely united, eighth triangular, as long as 

 the six preceding united, ninth a little narrower than the eighth, tenth oval, 

 longer than the ninth, and rounded at the tip. Palpi with the last joint dilated, 

 truncate. Feet robust, tibiae compressed, with a deep, longitudinal furrow on 

 the outer surface, tarsi stout. First joint as long as the two following united. 

 First ventral segment excavated for reception of hind feet. Elytra with two 

 submarginal striae, extending from the middle to the tip.* 

 Our species may be distinguished as follows: 



Elytral striae faintly visible at base ; pubescence coarse : 



Body elongate, elytra densely punctured l.punctatns. 



Body oval, elytra sparsely punctured 2. gravis. 



Body almost rounded, elytra sparsely punctured 3. p u si 11 u s. 



Elytral striae not prolonged in front; pubescence fine : 

 Surface very finely and densely punctulate: 



Slrize fine, body broadly oval 4. borealis. 



Striae deep, body elongate oval , 5. ventral i s. 



♦ Dorcatonia externa MuU. <t Rty, TfirfidileB, 367, probably beloDgs to this genus. 



1865.] 




240 PROPEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Striae very fine and short, body oval 6. obsoletus. 



Surface sparsely and finely punctulate, body elongate oval, 



striae deep > 1. nigritulus. 



1. H. p u n c t a t u s, elongato-ovalis, subcylindricus, piceus, dense minns 

 subtiliter helvo-pub-scens, subtilissime punctulatus, elytris prsecipue versus 

 latera punctatis et rugosis, striis duabus externis a medio ad apicem profun- 

 dis, antice obliteratis, externa ad humerum paulo ioipressa ; antennis flavo-tes- 

 taceis. Long. -11. 



Two specimens, one from Louisiana, the other from Georgia. The species of 

 this genus agree so nearly in most of the charactsrs, that it is only desirable 

 to mention the distinctive marks under each species. This one is narrower 

 than the other coarsely pubescent species, and the elytra are twice as long as 

 their width, and decidedlj' more punctured, especially at the sides ; the two ex- 

 ternal strJEe are deep, and extend from the middle to the tip, before the middle 

 they are obliterated, but at the base the outer one again becomes visible ; there 

 are faint traces of striae near the sides and tip. 



2. H. gravis, ovalis, piceus, dense minus subtiliter helvo-pnbescens, sub- 

 tilissime pun^.tulatus, elytris parce punctatis, striis duabus externis a medio 

 ad apicpm profundis, antice obliteratis, externa ad basin paulo impressa, an- 

 lennis flavo-testaceis. Long. -12 — -15. 



Dorcatoma grave Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1858, 72. 



Pennsylvania, Dr. Jlelsheimer; Texas. More legularly oval than the prece- 

 ding, with the elytra only sparsely punctured. There are some faint traces of 

 striae inside of the two outer ones, which are deep from the tip to the middle 

 and then obliterated ; the outer one is visible near the base. 



Two smaller specimens (-10 unc.) collected in Illinois, by Mr. B. D. "Walsh, 

 differ by the elytra being more finely punctulate, and more sparsely but dis- 

 tinctly punctured; I do not regard them as indicating a distinct species. 



3. H. pnsillus, rotundato-ovalis, convexus, rufo-piceus, dense minus sub- 

 tiliter helvo-pubescens, elytris parce punctulatis, striis duabus externis antice 

 obliteratis, antennis flavo-testaceis. Long. -OS. 



DoTcaioma puiillum Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1858, "72. 



Found at Fort Yuma, (junction of Colorado and Gila), California. The 

 smaller size and more rounded form readily distinguish this species. The 

 surface appears nearly smooth, with scattered very fine punctures on the ely- 

 tra, almost concealed by the pubescence. 



4. H. b o r e a 1 i s, rotundato-ovalis, convexus piceus, subtiliter griseo-pubes- 

 ens, vix conspicue punctulatus, elytris striis externis duabus ad medium antice 

 abbre\iatis, capite rufescente, antennis testaceis. Long. -12. 



One specimen. Lake Superior. The thorax is somewhat more compressed at 

 the sides, so that the outline is straight, and the body becomes more acuminate 

 in front, than in the preceding species. The surface is scarcely visibly punc- 

 tulate, and there are no scattered punctures on the elytra; the striae are finely, 

 but well impressed, and are absolutely abbreviated, not obliterated in front as 

 in the preceding three species, and without any traces of prolongation near 

 the base. 



5. H.ven trails, elongato-ovalis, niger nitidns, subtiliter griseo-pubes- 

 cens, subtilissime punctulatus. eljtris striis duabus externis profundis, ad medi- 

 um antice abbreviatis, capite abdomine pedibusque obscure rufo-piceis, anten- 

 nis flavo-testaceis. Long. •07 — -09. 



Illinois, Mr. B. D. Walsh. The elongate oval body, equally rounded at each 

 end, and not at all acuminate in front, will readily distinguish this species. 

 The pubescence is very fine, and there are very fine scattered punctures on the 

 elytra. 



6. H obsoletus, ovalis, convexus, niger nitidns, subtiliter griseo-pubes- 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



^ps, vix subtilissime punctulatus, elytris parce subtiliterpunctulatis, striis ex- 

 ternis duabus subtilibus, pone medium antice abbreviatis, antennis testaceiB. 

 Lonpr. -10. 



One specimen collected at Cape San Lucas, Lower California, by Mr. John 

 Xantus, and given me by Mr. Ulke. This species has also a regularly oval 

 form, equally rounded at each end, but is broader than H. n i g r i t u 1 u s, with 

 the strife of the elytra finer and shorter, extending scarcely more than one- 

 third of their lenglh. 



7. H. nigri t ul u s, elongatoovalis, niger nitidus, subtiliter griseo-pubes- 

 cens, minus dense subtiliter punctulatus, elytris striis duabus externis profun- 

 dis pone medium antice abbreviatis, antennis tarsisque testaceis. Long. -09. 



One specimen, Pennsylvania. Of the same form and size as H. v e u t r a 1 i s, 

 but distinguished by the body being entirely black, with the upper surface less 

 finely and not densely punctulate. 



PROTHECA Leo. 



The two species constituting this genus are small, short, cylindrical insects, 

 having more the appearance of minute Hylesinus than of any genera of 

 this group. The head is deeply excavated beneath, with a medial gular pro- 

 minence, as in Lasioderma serricorne, near which the antennae are curved 

 in a state of repose. The eyes are entire, slightly convex, and moderately 

 finely granulated. Palpi with the last joint triangular, broadly truncate. An- 

 tennae with the first j'>int long and thick, slightly curved, but scarcely auricu- 

 late ; second joint rounded, thicker than the following; 3 — 8 small, triangular, 

 the third, fifth and seventh being broader than the others ; ninth and tenth 

 Bubtriangular, one-half longer than wide; eleventh longer, oval, the three to- 

 gether as long as the preceding joints united. Prothorax convex, transverse, 

 gradually narrowed in front, with the sides nearly straight, hind angles rounded, 

 front angles very much deflexed ; prosternum very short, acute bthind ; front 

 coxae almost contiguous, conical, depressed ; mesosternum perpendicular, 

 slightly concave in the middle; metasternum deeply channelled, declivous in 

 front each side, somewhat prominent and deeply foveate between the middle 

 coxie, declivous portion scarcely excavated for reception of middle feet, but 

 defined posteriorly by a transverse line, extending to the medial furrow. First 

 ventral segment excavated for reception of hind feet, and almost entirely con- 

 cealed by them. Feet slender, tibiae not compressed, tarsi moderate. First 

 joint slightly elong!>ted ; front tarsi visible in repose, folded over the tip of the 

 mandibles, and along the anterior margin of the metasternum. Epipleurse ex- 

 cavated beneath the humeri for the reception of the middle knees, sinuate at 

 the margin, and foveate for the reception of the hind knees (as in Pe ta 1 i u m 

 and Theca) ; striae composed of punctures, scarcely impressed, even at the 

 sides. 



Our two species may be distinguished as follows: 



S trice of elytra not obsolete behind puberula. 



Striae of elytra obliterated behind hispid a. 



1. P. p u b e r u 1 a, ovalis, subcylindrica, picea, pubescens, thorace subtiliter 

 dense ptinctulato, el^nris nitidis, seriebus punctorum postice baud obliteratis, 

 interotitiis rugosis, antennis flavis. Long. -08. 



Pennsylvania, three specimens ; Georgia, one specimen. The pubescence of 

 the elytra is arranged in lines, the hairs are not rigid, and the rugosities of the 

 intervals are quite obvious; the striae are composed of punctures, which are 

 large at the base, and become small towards the tip. 



2. P. h i s p i d a, ovalis, nigropicea, opaca, pube rigida cinerea induta, tho- 

 race punciulato, elytris serieljus punctorum subtilibus jjone medium oblitera- 

 tis, interstitiis aluiaceis, parce punctulatis, antennis flavis. Long. -08. 



1865.] 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Georgia, several specimens. Shorter and more robust than the precedife, 

 and easily distinguished bj the difiference in sculpture. 



S UBGRODP IV. DOR CA TO MA TA. 



The body is oval convex, or even globose, capable of being closely contracted. 

 The head when deflesed is received into a deep cavity of the prolhorax, aud 

 the mandibles abut against the anterior margin of the metasternum. which is 

 prolonged between the middle coxae into a short, broad lobe, nenrly truncate 

 in front. The antennae are received in a sternal cavity between the front coxae, 

 and in the mesosternum, which is deeply buried under the metasternum. The 

 first joint is large and auriculate, and the last three joints dilated and very 

 large, forming a loose club much longer than the preceding portion. The pro- 

 gternum is very short and broad, and separates widely the front coxk, which 

 are smaH. conical and ascend perpendicularly along the sides of the cavity. 

 The middle legs are received in deep excavations of the meso- and metaster- 

 num, the tarsi resting in small, deep grooves behind the metasternal lobe, and 

 the knees in subhumeral cavities of the epipleurae. The first ventral segment 

 is deeply excavated each side for the reception of the hind legs ; the knees are 

 not received in epipleural foveae. The ventral segments seem disposed to be- 

 come connate. 



Our genera are but two, distinguished as follows: 



Prosternum produced behind into two long horns. Dorcatoma. 



Prosternum broadly truncate behind Coe n o ca ra. 



DORCATOMA Herbst, (emend. Thomson, Skand. Col. i. 90.) 



This genus, as restricted by Thomson, and subsequently by Mulsant and Rey, 

 contains species of oval form, having the eyes slightly einarginated and rather 

 finely granulated. The head is not excavated beneafth, but only impressed, 

 and the antenna are received upon the breast, between the anterior coxa. 

 Antennas 10-jointed ; first joint large, auriculate, second much smaller, di- 

 lated ; 3 — 7 narrow, very small ; eighth triangular, as long as the six preceding 

 united; ninth triangular, as broad as the eighth in the males, but in the fe- 

 males a little narrower ; tenth, oval, about one-third longer than the ninth, 

 more or less curved, rounded at tip. Palpi with the last joint securiform. 

 Prosternum (visible only on dissection) broad, short, concave, produced be- 

 hind into two slender and divergent horns, which fit into excavations of the 

 mesosternum ; anterior coxae small, perpendicular, widely distant. Mesoster- 

 num deeply excavated, concealed under the metasternum, which is produced be- 

 tween the middle coxae, and truncate in front; medial channel well marked. 

 Feet moderate, tibiae slender, tarsi moderate, first joint somewhat longer. First 

 ventral segment excavated for the reception of hind feet. Elytra generally 

 ■with two entire niHrginal striae, and a short one near tha humerus, more or less 

 visible, sometimes with slriie abbreviated near the base. The punctures in our 

 species are arranged so as to leave intervening, narrow, smooth vittae; the 

 epipleurae are not at all foveate for the reception of the knees of the hind feet. 

 Our two species may be readily distinguished by the sculpture of the elytra. 



Elytra sparsely punctulate in rows, striae entire setulosum. 



Elytra densely punctulate in bands, striae abbreviated in 



front incomptum. 



1. D. setulosum, ovale convexum nigrum nitidum, pube brevi erecta 

 fusca vestitum, thorace subtiliter puactul ito, elytris subseriatim haud dense 

 punctulatis, seriebus fere per paria approximatis, striis duabus externis pro- 

 fundis, 3ia brevi antennis pedibusque piceo-testaceis. Long. -09. 



Lake Superior, Pennsylvania, G orgia, also in North Carolina, (Dr. Zimmer- 

 mann.) The punctures of the elytra are fine, not densely placed, arranged al- 

 most in regular rows, which are approximated by pairs ; the pubescence is 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



browD, rigid and erect; the two outer strife are deep, the third is short at the 

 base, but continued by punctures of large size almost to the middle. The ab- 

 domen is finely and densely punctured, the segments apparently connate, the 

 metasternum coarsely and irregularly punctured. 



2. D. i n c o m p t u m, ovale convexum, nigrum nitidum, pube longiore fusca 

 ▼estitum. thorace punctulato, capite abdomineque rufescentibus, elytris dense 

 punctulatis, vittis angustis impunctatis ornatis, pilis bifariam po?itis, striis du- 

 abu3 externis profundis, antice paulo abbreviatis ; antennis testaeeis, pedibus 

 piceis. Long. 09. 



South Carolina (Dr. Zimmermann,) and PenDsylrania ; two specimens. The 

 punctures of the elytra are very fine and close set, arranged in bands, with in- 

 tervening, narrow, smouth bands ; the pubescence is brown, and the liairs lie 

 some longitudinally, some obliquely directed outwards ; the striae are deep, do 

 not extend to the base, but are abbreviated about the anterior fourth ; no vestige 

 of a short humeral stria is seen. The abdomen is finely, the metasternum more 

 coarsely and less densely, but equally punctured. 



C(ENOCARA Thorns., Skand. Col. i. 90, (1859.) 



Synonvms. T y 1 i s tu s Lee, Class. Col. 203, (18G2.) Enneatoma 

 Muh. cj- Rey, Col. Fr. Terediles, 367, (1863.) 



In this genus the body is broadly ovate, nearly globose ; the eyes are deeply 

 emarginate, and nearly divided by an impression. The antennse are 9-jointed; 

 first joint long, auriculate, second small, rather broader than its length ; 3 — 6 

 very small, indistinct; seventh large, transverse triangular, very much pro- 

 duced inwards in the male ; eighth elongate, subtriangular, as long as the 

 transverse diameter of the preceding joint, ninth longer than the eighth, elon- 

 gate oval, somewhat curved, very small at point of attachment to preceding 

 joint. Palpi with the last joint triangular, truncate ; head transversely vaguely 

 excavated beneath. Prosternum very short, concave, broadly truncate behind, 

 widely separating the anterior cosas ; mesosternum entirely concealed under 

 metasternum, deeply concave. Metasternum large, not channelled ; produced 

 between the middle coxae, and widely truncate in front. First ventral segment 

 excavated for reception of hind feet. Feet slender, tibias not compressed, tarsi 

 moderate. First joint longer than the two following united. Elytra with 

 three s'.rias towards the sides, the two outer ones entire, the inner one extending 

 from the humerus to near the middle. 



The lar^ ae live in species of Lycoperdon (puff balls,) and before being 

 transformed construct small, ellipsoidal cells, in which the subsequent changes 

 take place. The perfect insects are found on leaves, chiefly of oak. 



The two species in my collection are easily distinguished. 



Elytra coarsely punctured, pubescence hispid o c u la ta. 



Elytra finely punctured, pubescence short, prostrate scymnoi des. 



To this genus probably belongs Dorcatoma bi color Germ., Ins. Nov. 79, 

 which is unknown to me. The antennaj, head, thorax and feet are red, the 

 rest of the body black. 



1. C. oculata. Dorcatoma oculata Say, Long's Exped. St. Peters., ii. 273, 

 (d^)) {^^- LeConte, i. 180 ;) Dorc. simile Say, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., i. 16tj, 

 (9); (cd. LeConte, ii. 042 ;) Ti/listus similis Lee, Class. Col. N. Amer., 204. 



Abundant throughout the Atlantic States, from Lake Superior to Louisiana, 

 and from Maine to Kansas. The punctures of the elytra are coarse and distant, 

 and the pubescence rigid and snberect, some of the hairs directed longitudi- 

 nally, others obliquely outwards. In the female the seventh joint of the an- 

 tennae is almost regularly triangular, and but little produced inwards; the 

 eighth joint is less slender than in the male, and the last joint less arcuated. 

 These differences account for the two specific names given by Say. The striae 

 are deep, and the inner one extends from the base nearly to the middle. 



1865.] 




244 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



2. C. s c y m n o i d e s, rolundata convexa nigra snbnitida, confertim subtili- 

 BS punctata, pube brevi cinerea depressa vestita, striis externis duabus integris, 

 Eia ante medium postice abbreviata, antennis tibiis tarsisque piceo-testaceis. 

 Long. -10. 



One specimen (female) collected in Vermont, bj' the late Prof. C. B. Adams. 

 The fine, short cinereou3 pubescence j>roduces a pruinose appearance ; the 

 striffi are less deep than in C. o c u 1 a l a. The under surface is less coarsely 

 and more densely punctured than in that species. The seventh joint of the an- 

 tennse has the form of an equilateral triangle ; the eighth is narrower, and sub- 

 triangular, the ninih elongate, oval and nor curved. The general appearance, 

 dependent on the form and pubescence, is that of aScymnua. 



Novemher llh. 

 Mr. Casstn, Vice-President, in the Chair.' 



Twenty-five members present. 



November \Ath. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Thirty-four members present. 

 The following paper was oflfered for publication : 

 " Contributions to the Palaeontology of Illinois," &c. By F. B. 

 Meek and A. H. Worthen. 



November 2\st. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



?hirty-one members present. 



November 28th. 

 , The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Thirty-four members present. 



December bth. 



Mr. Yaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 

 The following paper was offered for publication : 

 " Observations on the microscopic shell structure of the Spirifer 

 cupidatus," &c. By F. B. Meek. 



Adjourned Business Meeting from November 2Slh. 



On report of the Committee the following paper was ordered to be 

 published : 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



Coatributioas to the PAL3:0NT0L0GY of Illinois and other "Western States. 



BY F. B. MEEK AND A. H. WORTHEN, 



(Of the Illinois State Geological Survey.) 



• MOLLUSCA. 

 LAMELLIBRANCHIA TA. 



Genus LITHOPHAGA, Bolten, 1798. 

 (LiTHODOJius, Cavier, 1817.) 



LiTHOPHAGA? PERTENUIS, M. & W. 



Shell slemitT, elongated, narrowing anteriorly, extremely thin, moderately 

 convex, in the (Jfentral and anterior regions, more compressed and cuneate 

 behind; posterior margin narrowly rounded in outline; anterior extremity 

 extremely short and very narrowly rounded ; basal margin straight along the 

 middle, and curving up gradually towards the extremities ; hinge line 

 straight, not exactly parallel to the base, and apparently about half as long 

 as the shell, — passing imperceptibly into the posterior dorsal margin. Beak* 

 almost terminal, very oblique, and nearly obsolete; umbonal gibbosity 

 slightly raised above the hiage line. Surface smooth, or with only faint 

 traces of fine concentric stri.e, and very obscure, undefined concentric undu- 

 lations. 



Length, 1*73 inch, height, 0-62 inch ; convexity, 0*50 inch. 



This species has very nearly the form of the following, but may be dis- 

 tinguished by its smooth surface, which never shows tlie distinct tliread-like 

 concentric strioe and regular wrinkles of that shell. As we know nothing of 

 the hinge and interior of these species, we merely place them provisionally in 

 the genus Lithophaga, from the similarity of their external characters, to the 

 recent L. liihophaga. Possibly their names should be written Modiolus lin- 

 gualis and M. pertenuis, or more properly Volsella lingualis, and V. pertenuis, 

 as they may belong to that genus, and Modiolus and Mjdiola are merely sy- 

 nonyms with the older name Volsella. 



Localiti/ and position. Warsaw, Illinois. Warsaw division of the subcar- 

 boniferous series. 



Lithophaga ? lingualis, Phillips (?) sp. 



Modiola lingualis, Phillips, Geol. Yorkshire, ii, p. 209, pi. v, fig. 2. 



The shell we have referred with doubt to Phillips' species cited above, 

 agrees with his figure in so many respects, that we are inclined to believe it 

 probably identical, though it may prove to be distinct on comparison of speci- 

 mens.*! I'' ^^ ^'^ exceedingly thin shell, and ornamented by moderately 

 strong thread-like concentric strije, which, on the umbonal slopes, sometimes 

 form neat little ridges or undulations, while a few more irregular, distant 

 marks of growth, are seen on other parts of the surface. Some of the speci- 

 mens are much larger than that figured by Phillips, being nearly three inches 

 in length. The direction of the marks of growth on these larger specimens, 

 show that they were almost exactly like Phillips' figures, when of the same 

 size. They also show that the hinge line is long, straight, and bordered by 

 a slender marginal line within. 



Localitij and position. Warsaw, Illinois. Keokuk division of subcarboaif- 

 erous series. 



♦ It is much to be FL-gretfeil that many of tho species figured by Prof. Phillips in his Geology of 

 Yorkshire, have not yet been fully and clearly described. 



1865.] 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Genus MODIOLOPSIS, HalL 1847. 



MODIOLOPSIS PEROVATA, M. & W. 



Shell longitudinally ovate, the widest part being a little behind the middle, 

 compressed, very thin, extremely inequilateral and oblique; posterior side 

 compressed, cuneate, regularly rounded in outline ; anterior side very short, 

 more narrowly rounded than the posterior margin. Dorsal outline forming 

 a broad, nearly regular arch from the beaks into the posterior border ; base 

 oblique, and somewhat straightened just in front of tlie middle, and round- 

 ing up towards the extremities. Beaks compressed, scarcely projecting be- 

 yond the rounded anterior outline, and placed directly over the anterior ex- 

 tremity.. Surface marked with regular concentric striae, and small, irregular 

 furrows. Anterior muscular impression oval, distinct, located close to the 

 margin, under the beak. 



Length, 1*92 inches ; height, 1'18 inches; convexity, 0-40 inch. 



This species has much the general appearance of Mudiol^psis concentrica, 

 (Hall, Geol. Fourth Dist. p. 196, 13g. 9,) but differs in having its anterior out- 

 line rounded, instead of protuberant and subangular in outline. Its margin 

 is also more prominent in the antero-ventral region, and without "a longitu- 

 dinal impression directly below the beaks." 



Locality and position. White Sulphur Springs, Delaware County, Ohio. 

 Hamilton Group, of Devonian series. 



Genus PLEUROPHORUS, King, 1844. 



PLErKOPHOKUS SUBCOSTATUS. 



Shell elongate-oblong, moderately convex ; umbonal ridges the most convex 

 part of the valves, and extending obliquely from the beaks towards the pos- 

 tero-basal margin ; anteror ventral region somewhat compressed ; basal and 

 cardinal margins very nearly straight and subparallel, the former being usu- 

 ally somewhat sinuous or arcuate along the middle ; extremities rather nar- 

 rowly rounded, the posterior being generally a little wider than the other, 

 and sometimes faintly subtruncate obliquely. Hinge line long and nearly 

 straight ; posterior lateral tooth of each valve eloaigated parallel to the hinge 

 margin, very remote from the cardinal teeth, and extending back a little be- 

 yond tlie posterior muscular impression. Beaks depressed upon a line with 

 the dorsal margin, small, somewhat compressed, and placed about one-ninth 

 the entire length of the shell behind the anterior margin. Scar of the ante- 

 rior adductor muscle deep, trigonal-subovate, pointed above, and strongly de- 

 fined by the prominent vertical ridge just behind it ; those of the pedal 

 muscles small, nearly marginal, audi located directly over the anterior ad- 

 ductors ; posterior adductor scars larger and more shallow than the anterior, 

 subquadr. te in outline, and placed close up under the posterior hinge teeth. 

 Pallial impression well defined. Surface of casts showing traces of a few ob- 

 scure concentric markings, crossed on the postero-dorsal region by traces of 

 about three equal obscure radiating costae. Exterior surface and cardinal 

 teeth unknown. 



Length of a medium sized specimen, (internal cast,) U 88 inch ; height of 

 do., 0*37 inch ; convexity, 0-26 inch. Some larger specimens of same pro- 

 portion, measure 1'33 inches in length. 



This species is apparently relati-d to P. costatus, of Brown (sp.), some vari- 

 eties of which, as figured by Prof. Eiug (Monogr. Permian Fossils, England, 

 pi. XV, ) it closely resembles, at any rate, so far as can be determined from the 

 comparison of internal casts. Yet it evidently diflers from that species, in 

 having the scars of its pedal muscles nearly marginal, and placed directly 

 over those of the anterior adductors, instead of partly behind them upon the 

 internal ridge. This ridge is also stronger in our species ; while the basal 

 margins of its valves are likewise more sinuous. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



This shell is also scarcely distinguishable from a form that has been re- 

 garded as a variety of P. suhcnii''ata, Meek & Hayden, in the Permian and 

 Permo carboniferous beds of Kansas. Whether specifically identical with 

 this Kansas shell, (the supposed variety of P. subcuneita,) may admit of some 

 doubt ; but it certainly ditfers materially from the typical form of P. snbcu- 

 ncata, not only in attaining a much larger size, but in its distinctly sinuous 

 instead of convex basal margin ; also in the presence of radiating postero- 

 dorsal costse. 



Locality and position. North branch Saline Creek, Gallatin County, 111-, 

 in a bed belonging to the upper Coal Measures. 



PlEUKOPHORUS ? ANGULATUS, M. &, W. 



Shell oblong, about twice and a half as long as high, rather convex ; car- 

 dinal and ventral margins straight and parallel, or the latter very faintly sin- 

 nous along the middle ; posterior side (which is a little imperfect in our spe- 

 cimen,) apparently obliquely truncated above, and very narrowly rounded 

 below ; anterior side very short, sloping abruptly from the beaks above, and 

 abruptly rounded beneath ; hinge line very straight, rather long, but shorter 

 than the base. Beaks depressed upon a line with the dorsal outline, and 

 located very near the anterior margin ; umbonal ridge prominent and dis- 

 tinctly angular from the beaks to the posterior basal extremity. Surface of 

 internal cast, showing faint traces of two or three distant, very obscure, con- 

 centric ridges, or undulations. 



Length, 0"52 inch ; height, 0-20 inch ; convexity, 0"16 inch. 



This is one of the kind of forms usually referred by paljeontologista to 

 Cypricardia, but as we very much doubt the existence of that genus, as 

 properly restricted to such types as the recent C. guinaca, Lamarck, during 

 the deposition of the paleozoic rocks, we have coucluded to refer it provis- 

 ionally to the genu^ Pienrop/iorus. Until its hinge and internal characters, 

 however, can be more clearly determined, its true relations must remain 

 doubtful. 



The most marked peculiarities of the species are its oblong form, straight 

 and parallel cardinal and ventral margins, and distinctly angular umbonal 

 ridge. Its anterior muscular impressions seem not to be as distinct as usual 

 in the genus Pleurophorus, but this may be due to a defect in our specimen, 

 which is an internal cast. All we kn^w of the hinge, is an impression of a 

 long, linear posterior lateral tooth, parallel to the cardinal margin, and most 

 distinct behind. This tooth appears to have been double in the left valve, 

 for the reception of a similar elongated tooth in the right. 



Locality and position. Wabash Cut-off, near New Harmony, Indiana. 



Pledkophokus costatiformis, M. & W. 



Shell elongate, suboval, molerately convex, slightly arcuate ; the dorsal 

 and ventral margins rather long and nearly parallel, the former being a little 

 concave in outline, and the latter convex ; extremities narrowly rounded. 

 Beaks small, depressed, or scarcely rising above the dorsal margin, — oblique, 

 somewhat compressed, incurved, and placed very near the anterior end ; 

 lunule small, moderately deep. Surface ornamented by concentric stria of 

 growth, and a 'few stronger concentric ridges, crossed on the postero-dorsal 

 and dorsal regions, by five distinct equidistant, radiating ridges or plications, 

 extending obliqu- ly from the beaks to the posterior margin. Of tliese plica- 

 tions, the lowest is the most prominent, and forms the umbonal ridge ; while 

 the upper one runs parallel to the cardinal margin, and forms the boundary 

 of the long corselet or escutcheon. (Hinge and interior unknown.) 



Length, about I'lO inch ; height, 46 inch ; convexity, 0-43 inch. 



At the same time that we propose to name this as a new species, we con- 

 fess that if we had found it in Permian strata, we should Lave, from its 

 1865.] 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



external characters at least, referred it to Pleurophorus costaius, Brown, (sp.) 

 Indeed it seems to be as nearly like Prof. King's principal figure of that 

 species, (f 13, pi. xv, Perm. Foss. of England,) as .-iny other individual speci- 

 men could possibly be expected to be, and more nearly like ii than any other 

 figure of tliat shell we have ever seen. Nevertheless, from the d fiFerent 

 horizons occupied by these shells, we have scarcely a doubt that, if we could 

 see the hinge and interior of that now before us, good spec fie diflFerences 

 would be observable. 



Locality and position. Keokuk division of the subcarboniferous series, 

 Warsaw, Illinois. 



Genus GRAMMYSIA, De Verneuil, 1847. 



GeAMMYSIA ? BHOMEOIDALIS, M. & W. 



Shell rather large, very gibbous, presenting a rhombic form as seen in » 

 side view, and a distinctly cordate outline as seen in an anterior or posterior 

 view ; umbonal slopes extremely prominent and very oblique ; beaks nearly 

 terminal, approximate at their points, rising above tlie hinge line, and dis- 

 tinctly curved inwards and forwards ; anterior and antero-ventral regions im- 

 mediately in front of the oblique umbonal ridge, abruptly contracted, with a 

 broad undefined depression extending from the front part of the beaks obliquely 

 to a point near the middle of the base ; dorsal region between the umbonjU 

 ridge and the cardinal margin, a little concave near the beaks. Posterior 

 margin obliquely truncated with a moderately convex outline to the posterior 

 basal extremity, which is subanpular, or very narrowly rounded ; base rather 

 long, a little convex in outline behind the middle, and straight or slightly 

 sinuous just in front of it, hut rounding obliquely upward anteriorly. Anterior 

 side (which is imperfect in our specimen) short, or apparently scarcely pro- 

 jecting beyond the beaks, more or less obi quely rounded and somewhat gap- 

 ing ; cardinal margin (judging from casts) rather short, and inflected so as to 

 form behind the beaks a distinctly defined, rather wide depression or es- 

 cutcheon. Surface, as near as can be determined from casts, ornamented with 

 small, regx;lar concentric ridges. Hinge, muscular and pallial impressions 

 unknown. 



Length, about 3-55 inches ; height, 2-06 inches ; greatest breadth (near the 

 middle of valves), 2-42 inches. 



The most marked peculiarities about this shell, are the remarkable promi- 

 nence and obliquity of its umbonal ridges, —which near the beaks stand out 

 as if compressed antero-posteriorly, — and the nearly terminal, obliquely in- 

 curved character of the beaks. The specimen is not in a condition to show 

 whether mr not it has a distinct lunule in front of the beaks, but we suspect 

 that it has. In some respects it resembles in form Cyrtodonia Hindi of Billings, 

 from tlie Cincinnati group, or so called Hudson river bed of Canada, but diflers 

 in having its umbonal ridges so much more prominent as to give greater con- 

 vexity to the valves ; while its umbones, although more prominent, are much 

 narrower in their antero posterior diameter. More important differences, 

 however, are the presence of a broad undefined sulcus extending obliquely 

 from the anterior side of the beaks of our shell, to near the middle of its base, 

 and the apparent slightly gaping character of its anterior side. Notwithstand- 

 ing the general resemblance of these forms, there can be little doubt but they 

 really belong to distinct families, since the Canadian shell doubtless belongs 

 to the Arcidie, while that before us appears to be related to the Anatinidie. 



Althoujih we have placed our shell provisionally in the genus Grammysia, 

 we strongly suspect that when its hinge and interior can be seen, it will- 

 be found to be either generiially or subgeuerieally distinct from G. bisulcata, 

 Con. sp., the type upon which that genus was founded. At any rate, it dif- 

 fers materially in form, and the prominence of its umbonal ridges, as well as 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



in the absence of a mesial ri Jge extending from the beaks to the middle of its 

 basal margin, from tliat and other well determined species of the genus. 



Should it be found necessary to establish a new genus for tliis shell, we 

 would propose to call it Rhombocardia. We remember a similar, but distinct 

 species, from the New York Hamilton Group, which, if we mistake not, has been 

 described by Mr. Conrad, though we cannot just now recall its name. 

 . Locality and position. — Bake-oven, Jackson Co., Illinois, Hamilton Group. 



Genas CONOCARDIUM, Bronn, 1837. 



CONOCARDIUM OBLIQUCM, M. & W. 



Shell rather small, obliquely subtrigonal, gibboxis ; anterior side Cposterior 

 of Woodward) very obliquely and abruptly truncated with a forward slope, 

 and flattened so as to present a regular cordate outline in a front view ; an- 

 terior auricle narrow, but of unknown length ; base very short ; posterior 

 margin sloping up from the base so as to intersect the hinge at an angle of 

 about 45°, rather widely gaping, and crenate its entire Jength. Beaks mode- 

 rately prominent, small, strongly incurved ; umbonal slopes very prominent, 

 angular, and directed obliquely forward to the angular anterior basal extremity. 

 Surface ornamented with rather sharply elevated, threadlike, subcrenate radia- 

 ting ribs, narrower than the depressions between ; each of tliese depressions on 

 the posterior and flattened anterior sides of the valves occupied hy a smaller 

 intermediate rib ; entire surface also marked by fine very regular radiating 

 and concentric striae, so as to produce a neat minutely cancellated sculpturing, 

 as seen under a magnifier. 



Length from the posterior extremity to the produced antero-basal angle, 

 0"70 inch ; height from the latter to the beaks, 50 inch ; length from the 

 beaks to the posterior extremity, 0-37 inch ; convexity, 0-44 inch ; breadth of 

 posterior hiatus, 0-17 inch. 



We know of no other species liable to be confounded with this. Its most 

 marked features are the great backward obliquity of its umbonal axis, by 

 which its beaks are placed even a little behind the middle of the body part of 

 the shell ; and the beautiful regular cancellated style of ornament seen be- 

 tween the ribs, under a magnifier. 



Locality and position. — Coal Measures. Wabash Cutoff, Posey County, Ind. 



Genus EDMONDIA, De Koninck, 1842. 



Edmondia? peroblonga, M. &• W. 



Shell oblong, the length being about double the heiglit, very inequilateral, 

 moderately convex ; the greatest convexity along the oblique umbonal slopes, 

 above and below which the valves are cuneate postero-dorsally, and antero- 

 ventrally. Posterior side distinctly compressed noar the extremity, its mar- 

 gin rounded or subtruucate in outline ; anterior side very short, less com- 

 pressed and rather more narrowly rounded tlian the other ; basal and dorsal 

 margins nearly straight and parallel, the former being very slightly convex in 

 outline a little in advance of the middle. Beaks near the anterior end, very 

 oblique, compressed, and but slightly elevated above the hinge margin ; umbo- 

 nal slopes prominently rounded from the beaks obliquely to near the posterior 

 inferior margin. Surface of cast showing only faint traces of a few irregular 

 concentric undulations below tlie umbonal ridge. (Hinge and interior un- 

 known.) 



Length, 2-46 inch ; height 1-25 inch. Convexity of a left valve, 0-47 inch.- 

 Although we have but a cast of this shell, showing neither the hinge, in- 

 ternal characters, nor the surface markings, we have thought it should be in- 

 dicated, as better specimens can scarcely be expected from such a matrix. 

 We confess, however, that we are totally at a loss respfcting its generic charac- 

 ters, and merely place it provisionally in the genus Edmondia. 



1865.] 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



In general appearance this shell approaches Edmondia ? compressa, of McCoy, 

 (Garb. Foss. Ireland, pi. 13, fig. 10,) but it is rather longer in proportion to its 

 height, and has much less prominent, and more compressed beaks, as well as 

 subangular, instead of rounded umbonal slopes. 



Locality and position. — Lasalle, Illinois. Siliceous limestone of the Upper 

 Coal Measures. 



Genus CH^NOMYA, Meek, 1865.* 



CuiENOJITA ? EHOMBOIDEA, M. & W. 



Shell rather small, short, moderately convex ; outline rhombic as seen in a 

 side view ; basal and dorsal marg ns nearly straight and parallel ; the former 

 very abruptly curved upwards behind, and more gradually in front; anterior 

 side very short and truncated or a little rounded ; posterior side distinctly 

 truncated (obliquely) nearly the entire breadth or height of the valves, gap- 

 ing but not dilated ; dorsal margin less than the entire length of the shell, 

 and inflected so as to form a narrow but well defined escutcheon or false area. 

 Beaks narrow, or compressed antero-posteriorly, rather pointed, prominent 

 and incurved, nearly terminal or placed directly over the anterior margin. 

 Umbonal slopes oblique, very prominent near the beaks, but less so aleng 

 the central and postero-ventral regions ; anterior and ventral regions ab- 

 ruptly cuneate, with a very faint undefined impression extending from the 

 beaks obliquely backwards, towards the middle of the base, just in front of 

 the umbonal prominence. Surface of cast ornaruented with small, regular 

 concentric undulations, with apparently very faint indications of very small 

 radiating strije. 



Length 1*17 inches ; height from ventral to cardinal margin, 0-80 inch, do. to 

 summit of beaks, 0*90 inch; convexity, 0*65 inch; gape of valves behind, 

 0-25 inch. 



Although this species seems to agree, in most of its known characters, with 

 the types upon which the genus C/i(enomya was established, it difi'ers in being 

 a proportionally shorter and less widely gaping shell, while its beaks are much 

 more prominent and oblique. As we know nothing of its hinge or interior, 

 nor of its finer surface markings, it is only provisionally that we place it in 

 the genus Chcenomya. Possibly we should call it AUorisma rhomhoidalis, or 

 Sedgwickiu rhomhoidalis. 



Locality and position. — St. Louis Limestone, of Subcarboniferous Series. 

 Alton, Illinois. 



CuiEXOMTA ? HYBRIDA, M. & W. 



Shell longitudinally oblong, moderately convex, somewhat arcuate ; dorsal 

 margin concave in outline, veotral border longer than the dorsal, and forming 

 a broad gentle curve nearly parallel to the dorsal outline, excepting a very 

 faint sinuosity in advance of the middle ; posterior side a little compressed 

 near the extremity, but rather distinctly gaping — truncated or somewhat 

 rounded in outline ; anterior margin sloping forward from the beaks above, 

 and apparently narrowly rounded below. Beaks moderately prominent, some- 

 what compressed, and placed less than one-fourth the length of the valves 

 from the anterior extremity ; umbonal slopes not prominent ; flanks evenly 

 convex in the central region, and a little contracted anteriorly, so as to form 

 a very faint undefined depression from the beaks to the base. Surface (of a 

 cast) showing small, obscure concentric ridges, which are most distinct and 

 regular along the posterior umbonal slopes, where they are abruptly deflected 

 upward at an obtuse angle ; anteriorly they are smaller, more closely arranged, 

 and deflected obliquely forward and upward. 



* In describing the genus Chsenotmja in the Palaeontology of Op. Mo., p. 42, 1865, some doubts 

 were expressed by me, in a foot note, whether or not it might be identical with An'hracomya, of 

 Salter, a description of which 1 had not at that time seen. Since seeing Mr. !~alter's figure.'* and 

 description. 1 am entirely satisfied that these forms belong to clearly distinct genera. — V. B. M. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Length, 1'90 incties ; height to cardinal margin, 0*90 inch ; to summit of 

 b>^aks, 1 inch; convexity, 0*68 inch. 



This is another form that can only he referrecf provisionally to the genns 

 0.hcEnom;/a, since we know nothing of its hinge and muscular and pallial im- 

 pressions. It has the form of the typical species of that group, excepting that 

 its posterior extremity is more codipressel, and not so widely gaping. Its 

 most peculiar surface character, is the abrupt deflection of its obscure con- 

 centric ridges, which give it much the appearance of a Goniomi/a. Indeed if 

 found amongst Cretaceous or Jurassic fossils, we would not hesitate to refer it 

 to that genus. As in some species of Gonio)n>/a, the ridges run parallel to the 

 base along the middle of the valves, between the points where they are de- 

 liected. Perhaps we should call it Allorlsma hi/brida, but for the present we 

 refer it provisionally to the genus Chcenomya. We know of no species with 

 which it is liable to be confounded. 



Locality and position. — Keokuk division of the Subcarboniferous Series ; 

 Nauvoo, Illinois. 



Genus SEDGWICKIA, McCoy, 184^1. 



SEDGfwiCKiA (Sanguinolites ?) suBARCUATA, M. and W. 



?hi'll elongate, suboval, somewhat arcuate, rather convex in the central 

 anterior, and umbonal regions ; anterior side sloping, with a slightly convex 

 outline from the beaks forward, and rather narrowly rounded at the extremity ; 

 posterior side narrow and compressed above and behind the umbonal ridge, 

 and obliquely truncated at the extremity ; dorsal outline horizontal and con- 

 cave behimi the beaks ; ventral margin forming a long gentle convex curve, 

 nearly parallel to the dorsal margin, curving up gradually towards the front, 

 and very abruptly at the posterior basal extremity. Beaks moderately promi- 

 nent, and placed about one-tkird the entire lengtli of the shell from the an- 

 terior extremity; umbonal ridge prominently rounded from the beaks to near 

 the posterior basal extremity. Surface of cast without visible concentric 

 ridges or other markings. 



Length, 2-20 inches ; height, 0*95 inch ; convexity, 0*72 inch. 



We are by no means sure that this shell belongs to the genus Sedgunckia, 

 as properlr restricted to such forms as 5. attenunta and S. corrugata of McCov, 

 since it is more elongated, and wants the concentric ridges usually seen on 

 these shells. In general outline it approaches some species of d'rcomyn, 

 Agassiz, such for instance as C. striata, from the upper jura, but its posterior 

 umbonal ridge is not so angular, while its surface, judginsr from internal casts, 

 seems to have been very nearly smooth. As we only know it from casts, 

 nothing can be determined in regard to its hinge, nor have we any means of 

 ascertaining the nature of its muscular and paliial impressions. Possibly we 

 shouM call it Allorisuia subarciiata, though its rather promiufnt umbonal 

 ridge, compressed posterior dorsal region, apparently smooth surface, and con- 

 vex anterior slope, without a depression in front of the beaks, give it a kind 

 of Lijonsia like aspect, not seen in the known species of that genus. 



Localitif and pofiiti n. — Upper beds of the Keokuk division of the Subcarbo- 

 niferous series. 



GASTEROPODA. 



Genus HOLOPEA, Hall, 1847. 



Subgenus ISONEMA, M. & W. 



I50NEMA DEPRESSA, M. & W. 



Sliell mu>h depressed, considerably wider than high : volutions nearly 

 four, increasing rather rapidly in size, obliquely compressed, with a slightly 

 convex outward slope above, — last one subangular around the middle, and 



18(55.] 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



aboiit as convex below as above the angle ; suture well defined ; aperture 

 rhomboid suborbicular, more rounded on the inner than the outer side ; outer 

 lip sharp and oblique in ouiltne ; inner lip flattened, or somewhat furrowed 

 below, apparently for the reception of the edge of an operculum ; umbilical 

 region very slightly impressed, but not perforated. Surface ornamented with 

 strong, very regular, transverse lines, most distinct on the upper side of the 

 whorls, where they cross from the suture a little obliquely backwards, with a 

 slight forward curve, to the periphery, over which they cross in the same 

 oblique direction, and pass on towards the umbilical region without any visi- 

 ble curve. 



Height, 0-41 inch ; breadth, 0-50 inch. 



This shell may be regarded as the type of a group apparently related to 

 Holopea and C/jclonemn, though it may be distinct from both. In some respects 

 it seems more nearly related to the latter group, but differs from the known 

 species of that genus, in having no traces of revolving lines. From the typical 

 forms of Holopea, it differs in having its volutions much less rounded above, 

 and more prominent or subangitlar around the middle, audits transverse lines 

 much more distinct. In its surface markings, and general appearance, it very 

 closely resembles Isonema hellatula {Loxonema bellatula,* Hall, Fifteenth Re- 

 port of Regents, pi. 4, fig. 4,) evidently belonging to the same group, but it 

 differs specifically in being mtioh more depressed, or almost subdiscoidal. 



Judging from some Ohio specimens, apparently identical with Isomma hel- 

 latula, Uall, (sp.,) it seems probable that some species of this group may be 

 slightly umbilicate. 



Locality and position. — White Sulphur Springs, Delaware County, Ohio, 

 Hamilton division of the Devonian series. 



Genus PLEUROTOMARIA, Defrance, 1825. 



PlECROTOMARIA CMuRCHISONIA ?) META, M. & W. 



Shell rather small, conical ; spire elevated ; volutions six or seven, rounded, 

 increasing regularly and gradually from the apex ; last one slightly produced 

 below, and forming about one-third of the entire length. Suture deep and 

 well defined, in consequence of the convexity of the whorls. Spiral band flat, 

 smooth, scarcely impressed below the general surface, and placed near the 

 middle of the whorls ; one third as wide as the volutions of the spire. Sur- 

 face without revolving strise, or ridges, but ornamented by small, regular, 

 oblique costse, which in crossing the upper side of the whorls, curve grace- 

 fully backwards as they approach the band, below which they are nearly 

 obsolete and curve forward. Aperture orbicular ; columella apparently per- 

 forated by a very small umbilicus. 



Length, 0-37 inch; breadth, 0-23 inch; apical angle regular, divergence 

 about 40°. 



This species will be distinguished by its produced conical spire, and rounded, 

 gradually enlarging volutions, which characters give it an intermediate 

 appearance between the genera Murchisonia and Pleurotomaria. In form it is 

 much like Pleurotomaria trilinenta, Hall, but it differs from that species in 

 being entirely without revolving markings. 



Locality and position.- -W&rsa.w, Illinois. Keokuk division of Subca'bonif- 

 ttrous Series. 



PTEROPODA. 



? Genus CONULARIA, Miller, 1818. 



CONULARIA MULTICOSTATA, M. & W. 



Shell with sides equal and tapering to the apex at an angle of about 22^° ; 



* We cannot belieye these forms can be properly included in the genus Loxcmema, as restricted 

 to such shells as the typical Tcrehra sinuosa, of Sowerl y. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHlLADELrHIA. 253 



^irrows at the angles distinct aud linear ; sides witliont a mesial farrow. 

 (?ostcE exceedingly fine and closely arranged, arching gently towards the aper- 

 ture, and sometimes interrupted or alternating at the middle ; most distant at 

 about O'SO inch from the apex, where there are 10 or 11 in the space of 0'20 

 inch, while about 18 occupy the same space near the aperture ; all, as well as 

 the depressions between, very minutely crenate or grauulose. 



Length, 1-30 inches ; breadth, 0-80 inch. 



This species is remarkable for its extremely slender, aud closely 

 crowded costse, whicli are not readily seen at n, little distance ; and it is only 

 under a good magnifier that tlie very minute crenulations can be seen. The 

 spaces between the costse are slightly wider than the costfe themst-lves, and 

 apparentlv marked by mJnute cross-lines, or crenulations, coincident with 

 those of the costse. Sometimes they appear to be obsolete on the costse, and 

 more distinct in the depressions. It is very distinct from all of the described 

 species known to us. 



Localitji and position. — Richfield, Summit County, Ohio. Waverley Sand- 

 stone, 50 to 60 feet below the Millstone Grit. 



COSULARIA SDBCARBONAKIA, M. & W. 



Shell very large, very thin, more or less distinctly and nearly equally four- 

 sided, the sides and anj.;les being somewhat rounded, and converging towards 

 the smaller extremity, at an angle of about 1S° ; section quadrangular, mesial 

 furrow along each side very obscure, those at the angles distinct ; aperture 

 subquadrangular, or subrhombic and contracted ; lip very profoundly notched, 

 or divided at the angles, so as to form four triangular flaps or appendages, 

 with inflected lateral margins. Surface ornamented with numerous, slender, 

 transverse costse, which arch slightly towards the aperture in crossing each 

 side, without any interruption or backward curve at the obscure mesial 

 sulcus ; costse regularly crenate, and separated by slightly wider depressions 

 near the middle of the shell, but much more crowded towards the aperture; 

 depressions between the costse, with very obscure transverse furrows, coinci- 

 dent with the crenatures of tlie costse. 



Length, about 425 inches ; greatest breadth, measuring diagonally across 

 between opposite angles of an obliquely compressed specimen, l-tJ3 inches; 

 greatest breadth of one side, 1-23 inches. Number of costse in the space of 

 0*20 inch, near the middle of the shell, 10 ; do. near the aperture, about 20. 

 Number of crenatures in the same space on each of the costse, 20. 



In general appearance, the species of this genus usually present compara- 

 tively little diflerence, and often they resemble so closely in their ornamenta- 

 tion, as not to be very readily distinguished. Probably the most marked 

 peculiaiity of this species is the presence of sharply defined notches in the lip, 

 at the corners, extending down nearly an inch from the margins of the aper- 

 ture, aud widening upwards, so as to divide the lip into four subtriangular 

 flaps, which bend a little inwards, so as to contract the aperture, and cause 

 the widest part of the shell to be an inch or more bdow its upper extremity. 

 Our specimen is not in a condition to show whether these flaps are pointed or 

 truncated at the extremity. 



This species will be readily distinguished from the last by its coarser, and 

 more widely separated, as well as more coarsely crenate costse, even where the 

 deep notches of its lip cannot be seen. 



Locality and po.iition. — Keokuk division of the Subcarboniferous Series. 

 Warsaw, Illinois. 



CoNULiVUIA WniTEi, M. & W. 



Shell of medium size, tapering at an angle of about thirty degrees. Surface 

 ornamented with distinct, linear, transverse, minutely crenate costse, which 

 arch upward, or towards the aperture, in crossing the sides, and either past 

 without interruption, the imaginary mesial line, or more frequently terminaU- 



1865.] 17 • "■ 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



there, those on opposite sides of this line alternating. Depressions between 

 the costae several times as wide as the costse themselves, but diminishing 

 regularly and gradually in breadth, from thj larger to the smaller extremity 

 of the shell. 



Length of a specimen incomplete at the larger end, 2-SO inches ; breadth, 

 (as obliquely flattened by pressure), 1*20 inch. Number of costse near the 

 larger end, in 0'30 inch, 6 ; do. in same space, 0*75 inch from the smaller 

 extremity, 12. 



This species presents a marked contrast to the last, in its more widely sepa- 

 rated costse, as well as in having the costse much more finely crenate ; indeed, 

 to the natural eye, they seem to be perfectly smooth. When carefully exam- 

 ined under a magnifier, however, they are seen to be very minutely crenate. 



Locality and position, — Waverley Sandstone, Richfield, Summit County, 

 Ohio, 50 to 60 feet below the Millstone Grit. 



? Genus TENTACDLITES, Schlotheim, 1820. 



TeNTACULITES TENPISTBIAT0S, M. & W. 



Shell attaining a rather large size, gradually tapering, and a little curved ; 

 annulations large, prominent, rather obtuse near the smaller end ; separated 

 by rounded constrictions of about 0-10 inch breadth at the larger extremity 

 of a specimen one inch or more in length. Surface marked by numerous, very 

 fine, regular, closely arranged longitudinal striae, most distinctly marked in 

 the rounded depressions between the annulations. Aperture circular. 



Length, 1-16 inches ; breadth at the aperture, measuring upon one of the 

 rings, 0'25 inch ; do. between the rings, 0'19 inch ; space occupied by four 

 rings and the three intervening spaces at the larger end, 0'30 inch ; while the 

 same space includes six rings at the smaller end. 



This species resembles rather closely the enlarged figure of a form from the 

 same horizon, referred by Prof. Hall to his T. flf.xuosa, (pi. 78 fig. 2tj, Palseont. 

 N. Y. Vol. 1.) ; but its annulations are sharper, and its longitudinal striae 

 more crowded ; while the natural size of the New York species is much 

 smaller. 



Dr. Shumard has also described, under the name T, incurvns, (Missouri Re- 

 port, p. 195,) a similar form, though his species is much smaller, with uiore 

 crowded rings, while it also difi'ers in having minute annular strise. 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati Group of Lower Silurian Series. Alex- 

 ander County, Illinois. 



Tentaculites Oswegoessis, M. & W. 



Shell attaining a rather large size, very gradually tapering to an acute point, 

 distinctly arched, particularly towards the smaller extremity ; section circu- 

 lar ; annulations rather prominent, somewhat obtuse, from three to three and 

 a half in a space equalling the transverse diameter, diminishing very regular- 

 ly in size, and in their distance apart, from the larger to the smaller extremity. 

 Surface without longitudinal or (visible) transverse striie. , 



■ Length, 1"45 inches; greatest transverse diameter, 0-16 inch ; space occu- 

 pied by six annulations, and five of the intermediate constrictions, at the 

 larger end, 0'35 inch. 



This species has much the general appearance of curved individuals of 7\ 

 elongatus, Hall, from the Lower Helderburg Group, (Upper Silurian) of New 

 York, but is decidedly more strongly arched, proportionally more slender, and 

 has more closely arranged annulations, while it shows no traces of the annu- 

 lar striae seen on the N. Y. species. 



From our T. tenuistriatus, described on the preceding page, it will be dis- 

 tinguished by its more slender form, more closely arranged rings, and the ab- 

 sence of longitudinal striae. The last mentioned character, and its much 



[Dec 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 255 



larger size, will also distinguish it from T. incurvus, of Shumard, (Missouri 

 Report, pi. B, fig. 6a, b.) 



Localitri and position. Cincinnati Group, of Lower Silurian; Oswego, Ken- 

 dall Co., 111. 



Textaculites Sterlingensis, M. & W. 



Comp. T.flexuosus, Hall. Palaeont. N. Y,, i. p. 284, (not ib. 92.) 



Shell small, slightly arched, and gradually tapering to a point ; section cir- 

 cular ; annulations prominent, angular, rising abruptly from the surface, usu- 

 ally about their own breadth apart ; constrictions between the annulations 

 with fine, sharply elevated, longitudinal strire, which are not continued upon 

 the rings. 



Lengtii, 056 inch ; breadth at the larger end, 0-08 inch ; annulations five 

 in the space of ^ of an inch at the larger end, and nine or ten in the same 

 space at the smaller end. Longitudinal strije, five in the space of 0-02 inch. 



It is not improbable that this will prove to be the form from the so-called 

 Hudson River group, referred by Prof. Hall to his T. Jle.ruosnts, in vol. i. 

 p. 284, Palseont. N. Y. As that specific name, however, was founded upon 

 a Trenton fossil, described as being septate, and having nine rings in ^ of an 

 inch, (being, as is now supposed, the column of a Cystidian), the name _/?earw- 

 osus could not be properly applied to this form, even if identical with the 

 New York species from the higher position. 



It will be'distinguished from T. incurvuf, of Shumard, from the Cape Girar- 

 deau Limestone, which it resembles in size and form, by having its annula- 

 lations arranged about their own breadth, instead of twice that distance apart, 

 as well as in having the longitudinal striae only defined between the rings, 

 instead of also upon them. 



It seems to be very closely allied to T. distans, Hall, of the Clinton Group, 

 but difi'ers in being curved instead of straight, as well as in being less rapidly 

 expanding towards the larger end. 



From the last of the two foregoing species it will be readily distinguished 

 by its much smaller size, more sharply elevated rings, and distinct longitudi- 

 nal striae. 



Locality and position. Sterling, Illinois. Cincinnati Group, of the Lower 

 Silurian series. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



Genus ORTHOCERAS, Auct. 

 Okthoceras crebhistriatum, M. & W. 



Shell attaining a medium size, rather rapidly tapering, compressed, (in 

 part probably due to accidental pressure) ; section ellipitical ; septa transverse, 

 rather deeply concave, distant less than one-third the greater diameter of the 

 shell at the point of measurement ; siphon apparently subcentral. Surface 

 ornamented with numerous, closely and very regularly arranged, equal, thread- 

 like annular striae, of the same breadth as the depressions between, and dif- 

 fering but slightly in size throughout the entire length of the shell. 



Length of the typical specimen (which is partly septate and imperfect at both 

 extremities), 12-50 inches ; greater diameter at the larger end, 4'20 inches; 

 smaller do. of same, 256 inches. Greater diameter of tbe smaller end, about 

 2-13 inches ; smaller do. of same, 1-08 inches. Angle ofdivergence, measuriug 

 along the narrower sides, 11°. Annular striae, 8 in 0-20 inch at the larger end, 

 and 9 or 10 in the same space at the smaller end. 



The most marked character of this species is its very regularly arranged, 

 equal stri», which seem to pass almost, if not quite, directly around the shelL 

 They appear to be simple, uninterrupted and everywhere arranged their own 

 breadtli apart. It differs from 0. Laphami, from the same rook, in its moob 



1865.] 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



more rapid expansion from tlie smaller to the larger extremity, and in its com- 

 pressed instead of cylindrical form, as well as iu having its striae passing di- 

 rectly around, instead of obliquely. 



Localiti/ and position. Joliet, Illinois ; Niagara Group, of Upper Silurian 

 series. 



OrTHOCERAS SUBBACnUJJI, M. & W. 



Shell attaining a moderately large size, s'ender and gradually tapering ; 

 entire length, as inferred from the convergence of the sides towards the small- 

 er extremity, about thirty inches ; section elliptical, the smaller diameter be- 

 ing to the larger as about 17 to 24. Length of specimen, imperfect at both 

 extremit es, IS inches, of whicli the outer or body chamber occupies a length 

 of 7'50 inches, while twelve of the smaller chambers occupy the remaining 

 10'50 inches ; greater diameter at larger end, 3-23 inches ; smaller do. of same 

 about 2"10 inches ; greater diameter at smaller end, 1'90 inches ; smaller do. 

 of same, 1'45 inches. Septa transverse, rather deeply concave, separated by 

 chambers, two and a half of which equal the greater diameter of the shell at 

 the point of measurement. Surface and siphon unknown. 



At a first glance this species looks much like 0. Bigsbiji, Stokes, [= Ormo- 

 eeras tenuijilum, Hall], from the Trenton and Black River Limestones, but on 

 a closer inspection it is found to be more compressed and more gradually ta- 

 pering, while its septa are considerably more distant, and show no backward 

 curve on either side. 



Locality and position. Joliet, Illinois. Niagara division of Upper Silurian 

 series. 



OkTHOCERAS JOLIETENSE, M. & W. 



Shell much elongated, very gradually tapering ; section oval or narrow el- 

 liptic, (probably to some extent, at least, due to accidental pressure) ; septa 

 very concave, unusually distant or separated by spaces, equalling three-fourths 

 the greater diameter of the shell at the point of measurement. • Siphon and 

 surface unknown. 



Length of a septate specimen, imperfect at both extremities, 14'50 inches : 

 greater diameter of do. at larger end, 2"75 inches ; smaller do. of same, 1*77 

 inches; greater diameter at smaller end, 2-l(3 inches; smaller do. of same, 

 1'30 inches. Number of septa in the entire 14^ inches, 8. 



This species is remarkable for its very gradually tapering form, and unusu- 

 ally distant septa. The latter character will alone distinguish it from any 

 Upper Silurian species known to us, excepting 0. pauciaeptiun, Hall, fiom the 

 Shaly Limestone, of the Lower Heldeburg Group. From this New York species, 

 to which it seem? to be nearly related, it will be distinguished by its com- 

 pressed, instead of cylindrical form. It is true this compression may be in 

 some degree due to accidental pressure, but it seems to be too regular along 

 the entire length of the shell not to be-mainly the natural form. 



Locality and position. Joliet, Illinois. Niagara division of the Upper Silu- 

 rian series. 



Orthoceras nobile, M. & W. 



Shell attaining a very large size, rather rapildy tapering ; section subcircu- 

 lar, or very slightly flattened on one side. Septa deeply concave, extremely 

 thin, distant about one-fifth the diameter of the shell at the point of measure- 

 ment ; siphon central, round. Surface unknown. 



Entire length of a septate specimen incomplete at both ends, 18 inches ; great- 

 est diameter at larger end, 8| inches ; smaller do. of same, 7 inches. Greatest 

 diameter at smaller end, 5 inches ; angle of divergence about 14° ; diameter 

 of siphon at larger end, 0'80 inch. The entire length of the shell was pro- 

 bably not less than five feet, and its body chamber, owing to tho large size and 

 rapid expansion of the shell, must have been very capacious. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 257 



In form and proportions this large species seems to agree nearly with 0. 

 Munsterionum, of Koninck, from the carboniferous rocks of Vise, Tournay, but 

 it attains a greatly larger size, and also differs in having its siphon central. It 

 is probably the largest species known in our caiboniferous rocks. 



Locality and position. Randolph County, Illinois. Chester division of Sub- 

 carboniferous Series. 



Orthoceras Winchellii, M. & W. 



Shell rather rapidly tapering ; section nearly circular, its greater and small- 

 er diameter being as 106 to 100 ; septa moderately concave, not oblique, dis- 

 tant one-fifth the greater diameter of the shell at the point of measurement, 

 and showing a gentle backward curve in crossing the dorsal and ventral sides ; 

 siphon very small at the points where it passes through the septa (probably 

 swollen or beaded between), placed on the shorter axis of the septa only about 

 its own breadth from the margin. Surface nearly smooth, or with more ob- 

 scure lines of growth, which, like the margins of the septa, make a slight 

 backward curve in crossing the dorsal and ventral sides. 



Length of an entirely septate specimen, imperfect at both extremities, 3 

 l«3hes ; greater diameter at the larger end, 1*50 inches ; apical angle 15", ap- 

 parently becoming greater towards tlie smaller end. 



This species seems to be somewhat similar to 0. occidentale, of Prof. Win- 

 chell, from his Marshall Group (Am. Journ. Sci. vol. xxxiii. 1862, 356), but 

 differs in being more rapidly tapering, and in having its siphon nearly margi- 

 nal, instead of placed midway between the centre and margin of the septa. 

 if much swollen between the septa, its siphon must be indeed quite marginal 

 at these joints. 



Named in honor of Prof. A. Wincbell, State Geologist of Michigan. 



Locality and position. White Sulphur Springs, Delaware County, Ohio. 

 Hamilton Group. Devonian. 



Genus PHRAGMOCERAS, Broderip, 1834. 

 Phragmoceras VValshii, M. & W. 



. Shell very large, clavato-sublunate in form, moderately arched, increasing 

 rather rapidly in size from the smaller end to near the middle, and thence ap- 

 parently somewhat tapering towards the aperture ; more or less compressed. 

 Outer or body chamber apparently rather short. Septa very oblique, (proba- 

 bly to some extent due to compression and distortion), comparatively closely 

 arranged, the chambers between scarcely equalling one-sixth the greater di- 

 ameter of the shell at the widest part, and one-eighth towards the smaller 

 end. (Siphon, surface and aperture unknown). 



Length of specimen, (imperfect at both extremities), measuring along the 

 middle of the side parallel to the curve, about 15 inches; greatest breadth 

 near the middle, 5 inches ; smaller do. at same place, 3 50 inches. Greater 

 breadth at smaller end, 240 inches. Of the whole length of the specimen 22 

 of the smaller chambers form 10 inches, and the remaining portion of the 

 body chamber the other five inches. 



The only specimen of this large shell we have seen is very imperfect, and 

 much distorted, so tliat it is quite probable some of the characters given in 

 the above description, will require more or less correction wlien good speci- 

 mens can be obtained. Its large size, general form, and rather closely arranged 

 septa, however, will probably render its identification not ver3- difficult. 



The specific name is given in honor of li. D. Walsh, the well known Ento- ' 

 mologist, of Rock L-^land, 111. 



Locality and position. Rock Island, Illinois. Hamilton division of the 

 Devonian. 



1865.] 




258 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Genus GOMPHOCERAS, Sowerbj, 1839. 



GOMPHOCERAS SACC0LUM, M. & W. 



Shell small, subfusiform, or clavate, very sliglitly arched ; a little com- 

 pressed at right angles to the plane of the curve, particularly the nonseptate 

 part, which is more convex on the outer side of the curve than the inner; 

 most ventricose a little above the last septum, thence tapering gradually to 

 the lower extremity and towards the aperture, near which latter there is a 

 slight constriction. Section transversely a little oval near the middle of the 

 shell, and more decidedly so above, but nearly or quite circular towards the 

 lower extremity. Aperture transversely oval, its smaller diame'er being 

 about two-thirds the greater : lips faintly sinuous at each end of the aperture, 

 and at the middle of the dorsal side. Septa but slightly concave ; (distance 

 between them not distinctly determinable from the specimen examined). 

 Siphon very small ; placed on the line of the shorter axis of the septa, about 

 twice its own breadth from the dorsal or outer side of the curve. Surface 

 marked only with small annular striae, slightly arched backwards near each 

 end of the aperture, parallel to the faint sinuosities of the lip. 



Length of specimen, imperfect at the smaller extremity, 127 inch ; do. of 

 nonseptate part, 0"67 inch ; greatest transverse diameter of do., 053 inc#; 

 shorter diameter of do. at same part, 0-42 inch. Apical angle of septate half 

 of the shell, measuring along each lateral margin, 24'-"'. Breadth of aperture, 

 0'33 inch ; smaller diameter of do., 0-22 inch. 



This little shell has the general habit and appearance of Gomphoceras, and 

 yet differs from the typical forms of that genus in being slightly arched and 

 not having its aperture so remarkably contracted. In being a little curved, 

 it more nearly resembles Phragmoceras, though its curvature is less decided. 

 It is also worthy of note, that the comparatively small contraction of its 

 aperture is mainly on dorsal and ventral margins, while in Gomphoceras and 

 Phragmoceras the contraction is mainly on each lateral margin. In several 

 respects it approaches Oncoceras, Hall, and it is even possible that we would 

 be more nearly correct if we were to call it Oncoceras sacculum. Still it differs 

 from the type of that group in being less curved, and compressed dorso-ven- 

 trally, instead of laterally, as well as in having its siphon not quite, though 

 nearly marginal. 



Locality and position.— ^hite Sulphur Springs, Delaware County, Ohio. 

 Hamilton Group of Devonian Series^. 



Gomphoceras (Apioceras) turbiniforme, M. & W. 



Shell rather small, turbinate, or obovate, very slightly unsymmetrical ; sec- 

 tion circular, or nearly so ; chambered part rapidly expanding, with sides 

 slightly convex above. Non-septate part very short, or three times as wide 

 as long, rounding in abruptly above ; aperture contracted, but exact form 

 unknown. Septa only moderately concave, nearly equidistant at all points, 

 excepting near the outer chamber and the apex, where they are more 

 crowded ; at about the widest part of the shell, separated by spaces equalling 

 one-eighth its greatest diameter. Siphon small and marginal. Surface 

 nearly smooth, or with only fine lines of growth. 



Length of a specimen not quite complete at the smaller extremity, 1-16 

 inch. "Greater brea^ith (at the junction ofthe septate and non-septate parts), 

 1 inch ; smaller diameter at the same place, 0-90 inch. Greater diameter at 

 the smaller extremity, 0-32 inch ; smaller do. at same place, 0*30 inch. Di- 

 vergence of apical angle, 30°. 



This is a very short turbinate species, somewhat like G. beta, Hall, (18th 

 Report Regents, pi. 7, fig. 1), but differs in being proportionally shorter and 

 more ventricose, and in having the septa proportionally more crowded. It 

 shows eleven septa in a space of three-quarters of an inch below the last one, 

 while G. beta is described as having only seven or eight in the same space. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 259 



Its last three septa are crowded within a space only equalling one of the 

 chambers below. 



Localitj and position. — Charleston, Indiana. Devonian. 



Genus NAUTILUS, Liunseus, 1758. 



Subgenus ENDOLOBUS, M. & W. 



Nautilus (Ekdolobus) peramplus, M. &. W. 



Shell attaining a very large size, compressed subglobose ; umbilicus rather 

 deep, about as wide as the dorso-ventral diamt'ter of the outer volution, and 

 showing about three-fourths of each inner turn. Whorls three to three and 

 a half, increasing rather rapidly in size, broadly rounded over the dorsal or 

 outer side, and more narrowly round on each lateral margin, where the 

 greatest prominenie is a little within the middle ; lateral margins each pro- 

 vided with a row of large, broad, depressed, orsubnodose prominences, about 

 fourteen of which may be counted on each side of the last turn ; from these 

 rows of nodes or mammillary protuberances, the inner side of each whorl 

 rounds abruptly into the umbilicus, and is provided along the middle with a 

 moderately deep, rounded concavity for the reception of each succeeding inner 

 turn. Septa deeply concave on the side facing the aperture ; separated by 

 intervals, measuring, on the dorsal side, more than one third the dorso-ven- 

 tral diameter of the whorls at the point of measurement, passing nearly 

 straight over the broad periphery, and with a very slight forward curve across 

 the sides ; while on the inner concave side they are each deflected abruptly 

 backwards, so as to form a deep, more or less funnel-shaped ventral lobe. Si- 

 phon placed rather more than its own breadth nearer the inner than outer 

 side. Surface of cast smooth. 



©reatest diameter, 20 inches ; transverse diameter, 12 inches ; dorso-ven- 

 tral diameter of inner whorl, 8 inches; breadth of umbilicus, 8 50 inches ; 

 circumference around the periphery, 4 feet 8 inches. 



We know of no shell with which this fine species is liable to be confounded, 

 though it has much the form and general appearance of our N. spectahilis, 

 from the same position. It dlfl'ers, however, in the position of the lobe on 

 the inner side of septa ; and in having its siphon located farther in from the 

 outer side. In a side view it presents some general resemblance to N. 

 tuberculatus, of Sowerby, as figured by Phillip, in his Geol. Yorkshire! 1. 

 pi. 22, fig. 29, though even as thus seen, it will be observed to differ in its 

 broader whorls, and in having the most prominent part of their sides, with 

 their nodes, placed nearer the umbilicus, while in a jirofile view, it will be 

 distinguished at a glance by its periphery being rounded, instead of nearly flat. 



As may be seen by the foregoing description, this species diflf'ers from the 

 typical Nautili, in the possession of a peculiar funnel-shaped ventral lobe, 

 formed by the backward flexure of the septa. Hence it seems to bear almost 

 exactly the relations to Nauti/us that the genus Tretoceras does to Oithoccras ; 

 hence we regard it as the type of a group for which we propose the name 

 Eiidolohus. 



If Montfort's name, Bislphiies, is to be retained, the name of this shell 

 should doubtless be Bisi/)hites p<ramphi^ , as the type upon which he pro- 

 posed to found a genus under that name, seems to have had an inner lobe 

 which he mistoek for a second siphon. As his name, however, implies a plain 

 contradiction of fact, we think it should not be used. 



Judging from Montfort's figure, his type not only differs from ours, in having 

 the outer whorl enveloping all the otliers, so as to leave no open umbilicus, 

 but in having the lobe of the septa a little removed fmm the inner side, in- 

 stead of being directly in contact with it, as in our shell. He says his type 

 was a large fossil species, attaining a diameter of two feet. 



Localitij and jiosiiion. —Randolph County, Illinois. Chester division of 

 Subcarboniferous Series. 



1865.] 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEJIY OP 



Nautilus (Temnocheilus) Niotensis, M. & W. 



Shell attaining a large size, globose-subiiscoidal ; umbilicus deep, and (con- 

 eidering the lateral margins of the wliorls its limits) about twice the dorso- 

 ▼eatral breadth of the outer turn. Volutions about three, contiguous but not 

 embracing, broadly rounded over the dorsal and ventral sides, anti promi- 

 nently angular around the middle of each lateral margin ; section trans- 

 versely elliptic, the two extremities of the ellipse being angular. Septa rather 

 distinctly concave, and distant on the outer siile less than half the dorso- 

 ventral diameter of the whorls at the point of measurement, — making a 

 broad backward curve in crossing the inner and outer sides of the whorls, 

 and curving forward to each of the lateral angles ; siphon piercing the septa 

 less than its own breadth outside of the middle. (Surface and apertur« 

 unknown"). 



Greatest diameter, measuring across the disk, about 8'50 inches ; convexity, 

 or transverse diameter of the whorls, 5 inches ; dorso-veutral diameter of the 

 last volution, about 3 inches. 



This species belongs to a group of carboniferous Nautili, including N. coro- 

 natus, McCoy, and N. hiangulatu", N. muJticarinatus and N. cariniferous, Sow- 

 erby, &c. These shells are characterized by having a broad, deep, open 

 umbilicus, showing all the volutions, with the outer side of the whorls broadly 

 rounded or flattened, and the middle of each lateral margin prominently angu- 

 lar ; the angle being sometimes nodose, while the transverse diameter of the 

 volutions is always greater than the dorso-ventral. The siphon in these 

 shells is generally, or perhaps always, between the middle and outer side of 

 the whorls. Although Prof. McCoy included a much wider range of forms in 

 his group Temnocheilus, we think it would be better to restrict it to such 

 species as those mentioned above, all of which were originally included in the 

 group by Prof. McCoy. 



Specifically, our shell is perhaps most nearly allied to Nautilus cariniferouSy 

 of Sowerby, (Min. con. pi. 482, f. 3 and 4) though differing in its proportion- 

 ally wider umbilicus, merely contiguous volutions, and particularly in never 

 having longitudinal ridges on the outer side of the whorls, at any stages of 

 growth. It also differs in having its septa crossing the outer side of the 

 whorls with a broad backward curve, instead of passing nearly straight over. 



Locality and position. — Niota and Warsaw, Illinois. Keokuk Division of 

 Subcarboniferous Series. 



Subgenus DISCITES, McCoy, 1844. 



Nautilds (Discites) OKNAT0S, Hall. 

 Var. AMPLCS, M. & W. 

 The shell we here place provi-ionally as a variety of Nautilus (Discites) 

 ornatus, Hall, agrees very nearly in most of its characters with that species, 

 but differs in its much larger size, and the proportionally greater dorso-ven- 

 tral diameter of its volutions, (particularly the outer one), as compared with 

 the breadth of its truncated periphery. In the New York form, these propor- 

 tions, according to the published figure, (Thirteenth Regents Report, 18G0, p. 

 102), are about as two and one-third to one, in the outerwhorl, and nearly 

 equal in the inner turns ; while in our shell they bear the proportions of three 

 to one, the flattened sides of the outer volution being three times as wide as 

 its truncated periphery. The type of the New York species is also described as 

 having its " siphuncle dorsal." If by this it is meant that the siphon is in 

 contact with the outer side of the shell, as in the Goniatites, then there can 

 be little doubt in regard to the form lander consideration being a distinct 

 species, since its siphon is separated from the periphery by a space about 

 equalling its own breadth. It is probably distinct from the New York species, 

 but as individuals of these older types of Nautilidee seem to have varied more 



[Doe. 




/ 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



in form than those of more modern date, we have concluded to place it for the 

 present, as a variety of N. ornatus. 



To facilitate comparison, we would remark that our shell, when entire, 

 must have measured from 10 to 12 inches in its greatest diameter across the 

 disc ; wliile its outer whorl measures about 5 inches in thickness or convexity 

 at the ximbilical side, and 1"50 inches at the periphery. Tlie greatest breadth 

 of the sides of the outer turn is about 4*50 inches. Its septa, as seen on each 

 side, are arranged and curved very nearly as in the typical form of JV. ornatus, 

 and are deflected backwards on the truncated periphery, so as to form a sub- 

 trigonal lobe as deep as wide ; they also make a rather broad, d^-ep, back- 

 ward curve on the inner side. Surface markings nnknown. 



The sliells of this type seem to be very distinct from the typical recent 

 forms oi Naatilii'', and whatever others may think, should, as we believe, be 

 at least regarded as forming a marked subgeneric group. Objections have 

 been raised to the use of MjCoy's name, Di-tciies, however, because De Haan 

 had used it in 1825 for a type of Nautilidce ; but as De Haan merely used it in a 

 kind of synoptical table, with no other characters than " Seiisim incrassatis," 

 without a fij::ure, or any allusion to any type by which the most remote con- 

 jecture can be formed in regard to what group of NautiUdoi he meant, it must 

 be evident we cannot regard him as having establislied either a genus or a 

 subgenus, aud the name was consequently free to be used by any other author. 



Localiti/ and jioition. — Hamilton Group (Devonian) ; " Devil's Bake-oven,'" 

 Jackson County, Illinois. 



Nautilus (Discites) discifokmi?, M. & W. 



Shell attaining a rather large size, discoid, much compressed ; umbilicus 

 shallow, a little wider than the dorso-ventral diameter of the outer volution, 

 and showing all the inner turns. Whorls about three and a half, nearly con- 

 tiguous, or very slightly embracing, nearly flat on each side, the greatest con- 

 vexity being about half way between the middle and the inner side, from 

 which point the sides round into the umbilicus, and converge to the periphery, 

 which is truncated, narrow and concave. Septa rather closely arranged, 

 crossing the sides of the whorls with a broad, graceful backward curve and 

 more abruptly flexed in the same direction on the truncated periphery, so 

 as to form a subtrigonai lobe about as deep as wide ; also, somewhat curved 

 backwards on the inner side of the whorls. Last chamber long, or forming 

 about half the outer volution ; others shallow, or usually about equalling one- 

 fifth the dorso-ventral diameter of the voliitions at tlie point of measurement. 

 Siphon small, suboval, located about its own diameter outside of the middle of 

 the whorls. Aperture and section strongly compressed, subovate, the inner side 

 being rounded, and the outer, which is much narrower, truncated, somewhat 

 emarginate, and biangular. (Surface unknown.) 



Greatest diameter across the disc, 8^ to 9 inches ; dorso-ventral diameter 

 of outer whorl nearly 3 inches ; greatest convexity of whorls, about 1*50 inches : 

 breadth of truncated periphery, 0"G8 inch. 



In siz:^, form, proportions, breadth of umbilicus, &c. , as well as in the 

 arrangement aud curvature of its septa, this species seems to agree almost 

 exactly with the discus of Sowerby. If that species has been correctly figured 

 and described, however, our shell presents the important difference of havin/ 

 its .'iphnii located a little outside of the middle, instead of near the inner 

 margin of the whorls. 



Locttliii/ <nid posidon. — Niota, Hancock County, Illinois. Keokuk Division 

 (if Subcaibouiferous Series. 



Nautilus Lasalle.nsis, M. & W. 



Shell attaining a medium size, compressed, subglobose, or subdiscoidal ; 

 umbilicus more than half as wide as the dorso-ventral diameter of the last 



18G5.] 




263 PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



whorl at the aperture, rroclerately deep, and showing about lialf of each inner 

 turn. Volutions increasing ratlier gradually in size, very slightly compressed 

 on the dorsal anl lateral surfaces, hut without the compression imparting any 

 angularity to the dorso-lattral and ventral margins, which are rounded ; each 

 concave within for the reception of the inner turns. Septa moderately con- 

 cave, separated by spaces measuring, on the dorsal or outer side, less than one- 

 third the dorso-ventral diameter of the wliorls at the point of measurement, 

 all crossing the sides and dorsum with a b oad backward curve. Siphon 

 scarcely more than its own breadth from the ventral or inner side. Aperture, 

 judging from tht^ section of the whorls, about as wide trans%-ersely as its diam- 

 eter, in the direction of the plane of the shell, subquadrilateral, or approach- 

 ing subreniform, in consequence of the sinuosity of the inner side. Surface 

 unknown. 



Greatest diameter about 4-70 inches ; convexity about 2-75 inches ; breadth 

 of umbilicus, 1-45 inches. 



Locality and position.— VpTper Coal Meastires, Lasalle, Illinois. 



Subgenus CRYPTOCERAS, d'Oibigny, 1847. 

 Nautilus (CKyrTOCURAs) capax, M. & W. 



Shell attaining a moderately large size, subglobose in form. Umbilicus 

 deep, with abruptly sloping walls, — one third as wide as the dorso ventral 

 diameter of the outer whorl, and showing each of the inner turns. Whorls 

 about two and a half, increasing rapidly in size, particularly in breadth ; last 

 one so expanded laterally as to be apparently one third to one half wider than 

 its dorso-ventral diameter ; inner ones proportionally narrower. All broadly 

 rounded on the outer side, and more narrowly rounded with a flattened 

 or slightly concave revolving space between the lidge hounding the umbilicus 

 and the middle of each side ; each provided with a narrow, shallow impres- 

 sion along the ventral side for the reception of the inner volutions, t^epta 

 separated by spaces which measure, on the outer side, less than one fourth 

 the dorso-ventral diameter of the volution at the point of measurement ; 

 a little arched backwards on the slightly concave inner side of the whorls, 

 and less distinctly so on the narrow revolving flattened space just outside 

 of the umbilicus, after which they cross over th(i broadly rounded outer 

 side, with a very broad, scarcely perceptible backward curve. Aperture 

 transversely oval, or subelliptic. Outer chamber very capacious, composing 

 less than half of a volution. (Surface unknown). 



Greatest diameter across the disc, about 7 ijiches ; breadth (transverse di- 

 ameter of the aperture), 6 inches ; dorso-ventral diameter 3*25 inches ; breadth 

 of umbilicus 1 inch. 



The only specimen of this species we have seen is a cast, which shows, 

 along the outer side of the whorls, the appearance of a tube 0'20 inch in di- 

 ameter, extending backwards from each septem. It is barely possible that 

 this may be a small lobe, but we have scarcely any doubts in regard to its 

 being the siphon, and hence that the species belongs to the group Crt/p- 

 toceras. 



Compared with N. dorsalis, Phillips (Geol. Yorks, ii. pi. xviii. fig. 1 and 2), 

 the type of the group Ciyptoceras. our shell will be found to difler in its much 

 more broadly rounded dorsum, and much wider mouth, as well as in the pecu- 

 liar revolving flattened space near the umbilical side of the whorls, which im- 

 parts a slight angularity to the margin of the umbilicus, as well as an unde- 

 fined longitudinal ridge, or prominence near the middle of the whorls on each 

 side. 



Locality ar)d jiosition. — Charboniere, Missouri. Coal Measures. 



Nautilus (Ckyptoceras ?) Leidyi, M. & W. 

 We only know this shell from the non- septate portion, — forming about one 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



third of a volution. It indicates a suhglobose form for the entire shell, and 

 shows that the umbilicus was deep, with rather abrupt walls, and about as 

 broad as three fourths tlie doiso-veutral diameter of tlie body whorl at the 

 aperture. From the curve, and rapid increase in size of the outer chamber, 

 it i*'evident there could not have been more than two and a half volutions, 

 which are rather broadly rounded over the dorsum and sides, to the margins 

 of the umbilicus, into which the sides round rather abruptly. Towards the 

 aperture, the steep, somewhat flattened inner side of the volution forming the 

 walls of the umbilicus, meets the lateral margins, so as to form a pinched out 

 prominence, that must have imparted a peculiar angularity to the inner mar- 

 gin of the aperture on each side. Just outside of this prominence, the ventro- 

 lateral sides of the outer whorl at the aperture are a little flattened. The 

 aperture is one-fourth wider than its dorso-ventral diameter, and forms about 

 three-fourths of a circle, being deeply rounded on the dorsal side, much flat- 

 tened within, and angular or apparently abruptly sinuous at each. inner lateral 

 margin. These angles at the inner lateral margins, seem even to liave pro- 

 jected out somewhat, as in the recent Aiyonatita gondola, of Adams, though 

 not to the same extent. The lip is rather deeply sinuous at the middle of the 

 dorsal side. The septa were moderately concave, and slightly arched back- 

 wards on each side. (Siphon and surface unknown). 



Greatest diameter of the shell, about 3-75 inches ; greatest breadth (at the 

 inner side of aperture), 2. Go inches. 



As we have not seen the siphon of this species, we are not sure that it be- 

 longs to the group Cryptocrras, but from its analogy to the species just de- 

 scribed under the name capax, which shows apparently a dorsal siphon, we 

 are led to infer that it probably possesses the same character. It differs from 

 that shell, however, in having its body whorl less rapidly expandins;, and 

 without a depression along the inner side for the reception of the inner whorls. 



Named in honor of Prof. Joseph Leidy, of Philadwlphia, Pa. 



Locality and position.— Vfa.rs,a,\\-, Illinois. Keokuk division of the Subcar- 

 boniferous Series. 



Genus TROCHOCERAS, Barrande, 1847. 

 TrvOCHocERAs ? Baeri, M. & W. 



Shell subdiscoidal, consisting of about two or three rather rapidly enlarging 

 volutions, which are more broadly rounded on the outer surface than on each 

 side, and about one-fourth wider transversely than their dorso-ventral diame- 

 ter ; each inner whorl slightly impressing the inner side of the succeeding 

 turn. Umbilicus a little more than half the dorso-ventral diameter of the 

 outer volution, and showing all the inner volutions. Spire apparently scarcely 

 rising above the upper surface of the last turn. Septa rather distinctly con- 

 cave on the side facing the aperture, separated on the outer side of the whorls, 

 at a point where the dorso-lateral diameter is about 1'25 inches, by spaces 

 measuring 0-35 inches — all showing a very slight backward curve on the 

 rounded periphery, and passing nearly straight across each side. Surface, 

 siphon, and non-septate portion of the shell unknown. 



Greatest breadth of the septate part of the shell, 5 inches ; height, (estima- 

 ted) about 2-50 inches. Dorso-ventral diameter of the volutions, increasing 

 about three-fold each turn. 



The specimen from which this description was drawn up is defective on one 

 side, so that it is not easy to determine whether or not its whorls are coiled 

 in the same plane, though they have the appearance of being somewhat 

 oblique, and hen;-e we have placed it provisionally in the genus Trochoce.tas. 

 Should it be found, however, when more nearly entire specimens can be ex- 

 amined, that its whorls are coiled all upon the same plane, it would belong 

 either to the genus Lituiics or Nautilus, and hence its name would become 

 Lituites Qaeri, or Nautilus Baeri. 



1865.1 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The typical specimen does not show the position of the siphon, hut a frag- 

 ment found near the same locality, and at tiie same horizon, apparently of 

 this species, though possibly belonging to another shell, has the siphon placed 

 about its own breailth outside of tlje centre. It pierces the septa from with- 

 out inwards or backwards, as in Ndnti/us. * 



At a first glance this shell would seem to resemble Cryptoceras (Lituites) 

 undatiis, -us represented by fig. 3, pi 13, vol. i. PalsBontology of New York, 

 but on a clost^r inspection, it will be at once seen to differ materially in th« 

 more rapid increase in the breadth of its whorls, and in the proportionally 

 smaller size and greater depth of its umbilicus, as well as in being apparently 

 not coiled on a plane. 



The specific name is given in honor of Dr. 0. P. Baer, of Richmond, Indi- 

 ana, to whom we are indebted for the use of the typical specimen. 



Localitji and position. — Richmond, Indiana. From the Cincinnati Group of 

 the Lower Silurian Series. 



ARTICULATA. 



CRUSTACEA. 



TRILOBITA. 



Genus DALMANIA, Emmerich, 1S45. 



D.^LMANIA DaNjE, M. & W. 



Attaining a large size, entire outline ovate, approaching subelliptic. Ce- 

 phalic shield rather compressed, nearly semicircular, about twice as wide as 

 long, rounded in front, and nearly straight or slightly concave in outline be- 

 hind, with posterior lateral angles produced into mucronate spines extend- 

 ing backwards to the fouith thoracic segment. Glabella composing rather 

 more than one-third the entire area of the shiehl, but slightly more convex 

 than the cheeks ; including the neck segment, as long as its greatest anterior 

 breadth, and about twice as wide in fiont as behind ; separated from the 

 cheeks on each side by a well defined furrow ; anterior lobe composing about 

 half its entire area, transversely elliptical, and a little less than twice as wide 

 as long ; lateral furrows well defined, anterior one oblique ; the other two 

 transverse, and not always strongly defined quite out to the lateral margins ; 

 anterior lateral lobe longer, more oblique, and at its outer end wider, than 

 either of the other two. Occipital segment widest and most prominent in the 

 middle, scarcely equalling the transverse diameter of the posterior extremity 

 of the glabella ; neck furrow well defined, but deepest on each side, and arch- 

 ing a little forward in the middle ; its continuations across the posterior sides 

 of the checks broad, deep, and straighter than the posterior margin, — extending 

 nearly to the lateral margins of the cheeks, where they curve a little back- 

 wards. Cheeks sloping slightly around the outer side, to a broad, shallow, 

 undefined marginal depression, outside of which there is a moderately thick, 

 somewhat rounded border, which does not extend entirely around the front 

 of the glabella, but continues back into the posterior lateral sidne. Eyes 

 reniform, not oblique, nearly half as long as the autero-posterior diameter of 

 the front lobe of the glabella, and situated slightly more than their own length 

 in advance of the posterior margin of.the clieeks ; with (in casts) a moderately 

 distinct marginal furrow around their outer bases, (height and other details 

 unknown) ; palpebral lobes semicircular and depressed. Facial sutures cut- 

 ting the lateral margins of the cheeks nearly opposite the posterior extremities 

 of the eyes, and passing around the antero-lateral and front margins of the 

 glabella, so near the anterior border as i-carcely to leave any perceptible band 

 connecting the movable cheeks around the front. 



Hypostoma obscurely subtrigonal, about one-eighth wider posteriorly than 

 its length, moderately convex ; anterior margin forming a broad, legular con- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



vex curve ; lateral margins contracted behind the anterior lateral angles, and 

 converging a little posteriorly, for about two-thirds the entire length, thence 

 more abruptly to the posterior extremity, which is transversely truncated, 

 and provided on eac'.i side with a minute, slightly projecting point ; while still 

 farther forward on each lateral margin, there appears to be traces of another 

 minute slightly projecting irregularity of outline. Around the anterior and 

 lateral margins, there is a more or less distinct sulcus, behind which the pos- 

 terior margin is flattened. Within this marginal sulcus there is, ou each sid« 

 a little behind the middle, an oblique eye-like depression. 



Thorax wider than long, the length being to the breadth, as 21 to 28, near- 

 ly once and a half as long as the cephalic shield ; mesial lobe as wide anteriorly 

 as the posterior extremity of the glab.'lla, and very slightly broader near the 

 middle, where it is about three-fourths as wide as the lateral lobes, from 

 which it is only separated by narrow, rather shallow furrows — most convex 

 along the middle and flattened on each side ; segments not clearly seen in the 

 specimens examined. Lateral lobes somewhat more depressed than the mesial 

 one, and sloping very gradually to the lateral margins. Segments equalling 

 the antero-posterior diameter of the posterior lateral lobes of the glabella; 

 earh curving'abruptly backwards at the outer extremity, and terminating in 

 a flat, shaiply pointed, or lanceolate projection, most produced in the posterior 

 ones ; provided with a deep, well defined, longitudinal furrow, which staris 

 from the anterior side of the inner end, and passes at first a little obliquely 

 outwards, and then^straight outward, slightly nearer the postei-ior than the 

 anterior margin, to the middle of the flattened scythe- shaped outer ends, where 

 they usually curve a little backwards and become obsolete. 



Pygidiuui nearly semielliptic, or subtrigonal, the anterior lateral angles be- 

 ing rounded, and the lateral margins converging to the more or less pointed 

 posterior extremity, witli abroad convex curve; slightly longer than the ce- 

 phalic shield, and rather more than two-thirds as wide ; mesial lobe somewhat 

 more convex than, and two-tliirds as wide as the lateral lobes, gently rounded, 

 and tapering gradually to the posterior extremity, where it is apparently con- 

 tinned into an abruptly projecting caudal appendage ; segments 12 to lo, 

 straight, well defined (excepting near the termination) by distinct furrows, 

 which are deeper on each side than at the middle. Lat*^ral lobes with eight 

 or nine well defined arched segments, which become more oblique posteriorly, 

 and are defined to near the eilge of the smooth margin ; each divided by a 

 furrow deeper than those between, and like those of the thoracic ribs, the 

 anterior division being sliglitly shorter than the other. 



Surface (of cast) smootii, excepting traces of small, scattering tubercles on 

 the anterior lobe of 'lie glabrtlla. 



Entire length of the largest specimen seen (exclusive of the little caudal ap- 

 pendage, the length of which is unknown), 4'93 inches. Length of pygidium, 

 1 43 iuciies ; breadth of do. 2 inches; breadth of its axillary lobe, 0\>7 inch. 

 Length of thorax, 2-10 inches; breadth of do. 2-83 inches; breadth of its 

 mesial lube, 080 inch. Length of cephalic shield, 1-40 inches ; breadth of do. 

 3 inches ; length of posterior lateral spines, near 0*95 inch ; length of glabella 

 exclusive of neck segment, 1-30 inches ; anterior breadth of same, l-'d.) inches ; 

 posterior breadth of do. 0-84 inch. Length of eyes, "39 inch; distance of 

 game from posterior margin of cheeks, 42 inch. 



Named in honor of Prof. .James D. Dana, of New Haven. 



We have described this fine species in as much detail as possible, because 

 it is somewhat nearly allied to several of the already described spt^cies. Per- 

 haps it is most nearly allied to the well known European D. cnuduta of Bru- 

 nich, with which it agrees in size, form and many of its details. In the first 

 place, it differs, however, from that species in having the anterior margin of 

 its cephalic shield decidedly more rounded than even the variety or form re- 

 garded by Mr. Salter as the female, while it shows no marginal riin (as seen 

 from above) extending around the front of the glabella. Again, the eyes, in- 



1865.] 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



stead of being placed about half their own length in advance of the posterior 

 margin of the buckler, are rather more than tlieir entire length from the pos- 

 terior margin. The produced spine-like appendages of its cheeks are also, 

 in all our specimens, uniformly distinctly smaller, and only extend back to 

 about the termination of the fourth thoracic segment, instead of to the sixth, 

 as in D. caudata. On comparing the hypostoma of our species with Mr. Sal- 

 ter's excellent figures of that of Brunicii's species, it is found to present 

 marked and decided difi'erences, which it would be tedious to go over in detail, 

 and which would scarcely be intelligible without the aid of figures. In the 

 ribs of the thorax we also observe differencf>s, those of our species being more 

 distinctly deflected backwards, and more sharfjly produced at their outer ex- 

 tremities, particularly the posterior ones. The differences in the pygidium 

 are likewise well defined, its lateral margins forming almost a regular convex 

 arch from the autero-lateral rounded angles to the caudal projection (which 

 seems to be shorter, and is much narrower than D. caudata), instead of being 

 nearly straiglit, or even concave in outline, posteriorly. 



Most of these differences we have ascertained from a careful study of a 

 good series of specimens, to be constant in our species, so that they can be re- 

 lied upon as not being individual or sexual peculiarities. 



In some respects this species is probably even more nearly allied to the 

 common American D. limulurus, while in others it differs more widely. In 

 size it far exceeds the largest examples of D. limulurns we have ever seen, 

 while all our specimens show the difl'ereuce in the obtusely rounded anterior ex- 

 tremity of the head, and the absence of a marginal rim around the middle of 

 the front to be constant. The convex outline of the lateral margins of its 

 pygidium, already mentioned, also contrasts strongly with that of D. limulurus, 

 and even the largest specimens of our species, five inches in length, only show 

 twelve to thirteen segments in the mesial lobe, instead of fifteen, as in the New 

 York species. The caudal appendage, if produced at all, must also be much 

 narrower at its origin in our species. 



The greater number of segments in the mesial and lateral lobes of the pygidi- 

 um, and the distinct granular surface of both D. phuroptyx and D. micrurus, 

 will alone serve to distinguish them from the species under consideration; 

 while the hypostoma of D. micrurus, at least, is entirely difi'erent. 



If the name Dalmania cannot be retained for this genus, in consequence of 

 its having been previously used for a genus of Diptera, Hawle and Corda's 

 name Odontocheile will probably have to be adopted for it, in which case this 

 species will have to be called Odontocheile Dame. 



Locality and position. Two miles above Thebes, Alexander County, Illinois. 

 Upper Silurian. 



Genus LICHAS, Dalman, 1827. 

 LicHAs crcDLLrs, M. & W. 



Glabella very convex ; middle lobe strongly elevated, or subconic, nearly 

 three times as wide anteriorly (measuring around the front) as beliind, slop- 

 ing abruptly from the highest point behind the middle, with a straight, or 

 slightly concave outline, back to the neck furrow, and rounding with a regu- 

 lar, convex, rapidly descending curve, to the rounded front; lateral slopes de- 

 clining abruptly, and separated from the lateral lobes by a linear but well 

 defined furrow, arching forward from the neck furrow, and curving laterally 

 on the anterior slope. Lateral lobes about half as high, and three-fourths as 

 long as the middle one, from which the}- slope abruptly outwards ; nearly as 

 wide behind as the posterior extremity of the middle lobe at the neck furrow, 

 but not more than half its breadth at the summit, and less than one-third its 

 anterior breadth. Outside of these, on each side, the much smaller and low- 

 er palpebral lobes are separated from them by a linear furrow, similar and 

 nearly parallel to those separating the lateral lobes from the central one. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Neck farrow moderately well defined ; neck Sf^gment very much depressed be- 

 low the other parts, and sloping backwards ; apparently equalling the breadth 

 across between the two outer lobes. 



Surface showing, under a magnifier, small, unequal, rather scattering pus- 

 tules, with smaller intermediate granules. 



Length, including the neck segment, 0*70 inch, do. excluding sam«i, 0"5'2 

 inch; height, 0-4S inch; breadth, 0-9t) inch ; do. of middle lobe at posterior 

 extremity, 0*25 inch ; do. of same at summit, 0-41 inch ; do. of sanae at front, 

 0-60 inch. 



Compared with the corresponding parts of L. Trentonensis, this species will 

 be at once distinguished, by its much more elevated and differently formed 

 glabella, as well as by its less convex lateral lobes, and the presence of a de- 

 fined furrow between the lateral and the palpebral lobes. Its surface is also much 

 less strongly and distinctly pustulose. This latter character, and its (>ropor- 

 tioaally narrower neck segment, as well as its more conical middle lobe, readi- 

 ly distinguish it from L. hibernicus, of Portlock, which it more nearly resem- 

 bles. It differs too distinctly from L. Boltoni, of the Niagara Group, to render 

 a comparison necessary. 



Localitif and position. Alexander County, Illinois. Trenton division. 

 Lower Silurian. 



Genus PROETDS, Steininger, 1&30. 



Proetds ellipticus, M. & W. 



Rather small, entire outline narrow elliptic. Cephalic shield about one- 

 third wider tlian long, and slightly longer than the thorax, — semielliptic, regu- 

 larly and rather narrowly rounded in front and straight behind, with postero- 

 lateral angles produced into S'nall spines, which extend back to the fourth tho- 

 racic segment ; anterior and lateral borders with a narrow marginal rim, 

 strongly deflected upwari^, and separated from the cheek and glabella by a 

 deep furrow. Glabella more prominent than the cheeks, includmg the neck 

 segment, a little more than twice as long as wide, broader behind than in front, 

 where it is regularly rounded, separated from the cheeks on each side by mode- 

 rately well defined furrows ; neck segment more prominent in the middle than 

 any part of the glabella, about twice as wide (antero- posteriorly) as the tho- 

 racic segments, and defined by a narrower, but distinct neck furrow, the con- 

 tinuation of which becomes wider, but rather less sharply impressed, as it 

 extends straight across the posterior margins of the cheeks to their lateral 

 marginal furrows ; lateral furrows of glabella, excepting the posterior ones, 

 nearly obsolete ; posterior lateral lobes small, subovate, and nearly isolated 

 by the rather obscure lateral furrows just in front of each being directed ob- 

 liquely backwards and inwards, so as to intersect the neck furrow ; the other 

 lateral lobes, of which tliere seems to be indications of two on each side, are 

 very small and nearly obsolete, anterior lobe composing nearly half of the 

 glabella. Eyes lunate, not oblique, one-third as long as the glabella, but not 

 so prominent, situated less than their own length in advance of the posterior 

 margin of the cheeks near the glabella, and about half their length from the 

 lateral margins of the cheeks ; reticulations very fine. Facial sutures inter- 

 secting the posterior margins of (he cheeks near tlie middle, and extending 

 forward from the anterior side of each eye, at first close to the side of tlie gla- 

 bella, but soon curving outwards and obliquely forward, so as to intersect th« 

 lateral margins nearly opposite the anterior end of the glabella. 



Thorax about one-third wider than long, distinctly trilobate ; mesial IoIm} 

 prominent, about once and a half as wide as the lateral lobe, consisting, ap- 

 parently, of only eight segments ; a little widest near the middle, and taper- 

 ing posteriorly ; segments not arching forward, but strongly arched upward, 

 rather flattened. Lateral lobes depressed, somewhat flattened near tlie mesial 

 lobe, and rounding down rather distinctly to the lateral margins ; segments 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



narrow on their upper edges, flattened in the direction of the axis, and bent 

 a little backwards below the knee^, apparently rounded at the extremities. 



Pygidium subsemicircular, but 3 little rounded at the anterior lateral 

 angles ; about one-third wider than long, and as long as the glabella, exclu- 

 sive of the neck segment and anterior marginal rim; rather more broadly 

 rounded behind than the anterior margin of the glabella ; mesial lobe promi- 

 nent, about as wide anteriorly as the lateral lobes, and tapering backwards to 

 an obtuse point within the margin, where it ends rather abruptly and is a 

 little depressed, but not flattened ; consisting of nine or ten moderately de- 

 fined segments ; lateral lobes depressed below the mesial lobe, near which they 

 are slightly flattened, thence rounding to the margins ; each with about seven 

 rather faintly defined segments, of which only the anterior one is marked with 

 a longitudinal furrow, all extending to within a short distance of the margin, 

 which seems to be slightly thickened. 



Surface apparently nearly smooth excepting the glabella, which is covered 

 with small, rather closely arranged granules. A row of very small granules 

 may also be seen, by the aid of a magnifier, along the posterior margin of the 

 segments of the mesial lobe, both of the thorax and pygidium. 



Entire length, 0-78 inch ; do. of pygidium, 0'23 inch ; do. of thorax, 0'25 

 inch; do. of head, 0'30 inch. Breadth of head, 0-39 inch; do. of thorax, 

 0"36 inch; do. of pygidium, 0-34 inch. Length of glabella, including neck 

 segment, 0-25 inch, exclusive of neck segment, 0-21 inch ; length of eyes, 

 0"10 inch; distance of same in advance of posterior margin of cheeks, 0'06 

 inch. 



At a first glance this species might be readily mistaken for P. Swalloioi, of 

 Dr. Shumard, from the same horizon. A more careful comparison, however, 

 at once shows it to present well defined specific diflferences. In the first place, 

 the outline of the anterior margin of its head is more regularly rounded, its 

 entire cephalic shield longer in proportion to its breadth, while its postero- 

 lateral angles are produced into small spines. Its glabella also diifers in being 

 a little narrower anteriorly than behind, instead of the reverse, and its sides 

 straight instead of sinuous. The posterior lateral lobe of its glabella likewise 

 difl'ers in being entirely isolated by the furrow ju?t in advance of it intersect- 

 ing the neck furrow, and the other lateral furrows are less distinct than in 

 P. Su-allouu. Again, our species differs in having its glabella granulose, and 

 the segments of its me.-ial lobe each provided with a row of minute marginal 

 granules, instead of having " the whole surface minutely punctate." 



It is very probable we should call this species P/ullijisia dhptica, as it seems 

 to present most of the characters of that genus. Untorttinately, the charac- 

 ters distinguishing these groups seem not to have been very clearly pointed 

 out. 



Locality and position. Jersey County, Illinois. Kinderhook Group, of 

 Subcarbouifeious series. 



Genus PHILLIPSIA, Portlock, 1843. 



Subgenus GRIFFITHIDES, Portlock, 1843. 



Phillipsia (Gkiffithides) Portlockii, M. & W. 



Entire outline subovate. Cephalic shield subsemicircular, nearly twice as 

 wide as long, moderately convex, rounded in front and straight behind, with 

 the posteri^'r lateral angles terminating in short, pointed, spine-like appenda- 

 ges extending back to the third thoracic segment. Glabella ovate, tumid, con- 

 tracted and depressed behind, widest and most convex anteriorly, where it is 

 about one-thiid narrower than its length from the neck segment to its lounded 

 front, which is not margined by a projecting rim; very distinct from the 

 cheeks in consequence of its greater convexity ; posterior lateral lobes small, 

 much depressed, and isolated by the oblique lateral furrows in front being so 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



directed as to intersect the neck furrow ; immediately in front of these there 

 are, on each si^ie, traces of anotlicr small, very obscurely defined, later^il lobe ; 

 anterior lobe ventricose, and composing much the larger portion of the whole. 

 Neck furrow deep and broad ; its continuation across the posterior side of the 

 cheeks distinct, straight and terminating at the lateral furrows of the cheeks ; 

 neck segment prominen', twice the !?ize of the thoracic segments, and equalling 

 the greatest transverse diameter of the glabella in front, bu' more depressed. 

 Eyes in the form of somewhat oval, ventricose tubercles, considerably lower 

 than the glabella, from which tlu^y are separated by distinct depressions ; 

 placed about half their length in advance of the posterior margin of the cheeks, 

 and without visible facets ; palpebral lobes, depressed, not covering the eyes, 

 but merely connecting with their inner sides, so as to leave the visual area 

 forming an almost isolated tubercle. Cheeks sloping from the eyes into a 

 broad, rather deep marginal si^lcus, which is not continued around the front 

 of the glabella, but exten-ls back a little upon the lateral spine; outside of 

 this there is a rather thick, distinctly striated marginal rim, which becomes 

 very nearly obsolete around the front of the glabella. Facial sutures cutting 

 the anterior margin nearly on a line with the eyes, but curving so as to leave 

 a small semicircular wing on each anterior lateral margin of the glab.^Ua; in- 

 tersecting the posterior margin of the cheeks about midway between the late- 

 ral angles and the neck segment. 



Thorax nearly as long as the glabella, exclusive of the neck segment ; dis- 

 tinctly trilobate ; axal lobe slightly wider than the lateral lobes, rounded and 

 rather prominent ; its nine segments narrow and straight, or not arching for- 

 ward. Lateral lobes more depressed, somewhat flattened on the inner and 

 rounding down to the lat>^ral margins ; segTnents duplicated by a nearly me- 

 sial furrow extending from thsir inner ends out to, or a little beyond the 

 undefined knee, beyond which they are obliquely flattened for folding to- 

 gether and rounding at their extremities. 



Pygidium a little more than one-fourth wider than long, rather distinctly 

 convex, rounded behind and more or less straight in front, with anterior late- 

 ral angles obliquely truncated and a little rounded. Mesial lobe very promi- 

 nent and well defined, rounded above, and a little flattened or farrowed on the 

 sides; as wide anteriorly as the lateral lobes, tapering and declining some- 

 what posteriorly to an abrupt, obtuse termination, about half its own greatest 

 anterior breadth within the flattened margin ; segments, fourteen or fifteen, 

 distinctly defined, smaller than those of the thorax. Lateral lobes depressed 

 below the mesial lobe, somewhat flattened on the inner side, and sloping to the 

 rather narrow and more tlattcned border; segments ten, somewhat oblique, 

 well defined for three fourths of the distance out, and thence less distinctly 

 so, to within a short distance of the margin ; a few of the anterior ones with 

 an obscure longitudinal furrow. 



Surface granulose, the granules being largest on the posterior portions of 

 the glabella, palpebral lobes and neck segment. On the segments of the axal 

 lobe, both of the thorax and pygidium, as well as on those of the lateral 

 lobes, they are very small and regularly disposed, so as to form a single row 

 to each segment. 



Entire length, 1-19 inches; about, 0-70 inch. Length of pygidium, 0-44 

 inch; breadth of do., 0-56 inch. Length of thorax, 0*33 inch; breadth of 

 do. 0.60 inch. Length of cephalic shirld, 0-42 inch ; breadth of do. 0-()4 inch. 

 Length of glabella, exclusive of neck segment, 0-36 inch ; breadtli of do. 

 0-24 inch. Length of eyes, 0-13 inch. 



This species is remarkable for the structure of its eyes, which, instead of 

 being, as usual, overed by the palpebral lobes, have the form and appear- 

 ance of distinct oval tub.'rcl.s, with the palpebral lobes very small, depressed 

 to, or a little below the elevation of the eyes, and merely connecting with 

 their inner side. We have not been able to see any facets in the eyes, even 

 under a good lens, but they doubtless existed beneath the external crust. 



1865.] 18 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



We know of no species with wliicli it could be, for a moment, confounded. 

 "With the exception of the above mentioned peculiarities of the eyes, it agrees 

 well with the characters of GriffitJiicles, and doubtless must be called Griffi- 

 thides Portlochii, if that group is to be retained as a distinct genus. 



Named in honor of Col. J. E. Portlock, of the Royal Ordinance Survey, of 

 Ireland, and author of the genus. 



Localiiy and position. Warsaw, Illinois ; Keokuk Limestone, of Subcarbo- 

 niferous series. 



Phillipsia (Geiffithides) scitula, M. & W. 



Small, ehtire outline nearly elliptical. Cephalic shield semielliptic, very 

 convex, about one-third its breadth wider than long, rounded anteriorly, and 

 nearly straight, or more or less concave in outline behind, with posterior la- 

 teral angles produced backwards into rather stout, carinated, pointed spines, 

 which extend as far back as the fifth thoracic segment. Glabella broadly 

 rounded and sloping in front, where it is destitute of a projecting marginal 

 rim ; distinctly contracted posteriorly, in which region it is most elevated ; 

 separated from the cheeks on each side by its much greater convexity, and a 

 shallow furrow, which becomes obsolete around the front ; posterior lateral 

 lobes comparatively large, subtrigonal, very oblique, depressed and isolated 

 by the strongly defined lateral furrows in front of them being so very oblique, 

 and produced, as to intersect the neck furrow; midway between these two 

 lobes there is a more prominent mesial node, isolated by an accessory furrow 

 passing across in front of it, so as to cut it off, as it were, from the narrow 

 posterior central part of the glabella; second and third lateral lobes very 

 small, transverse and obscurely defined by short, nearly obsolete linear fur- 

 rows ; anterior lobe larger than all the remaining portions of the glabella be- 

 tween it and the neck furrow. Neck segment a little higher in the middle 

 (where it is provided with a minute tubercle) than the glabella, strongly 

 arched upwards, (not forward) and more than twice as wide, antero-posteri- 

 orly, as one of the thoracic segments ; neck furrow deep, broad, and arching 

 with the neck segment. Eyes comparatively large, or half as long, and (be- 

 hind) nearly as prominent as any part of the glabella, located with their po- 

 sterior margins opposite the neck furrow, and less than half their own length in 

 advance of the posterior margins of the cheeks ; vistial surface ventricose, or 

 Rubhemispherical, smooth, or even polished, as seen under a good pocket lens, 

 but when examined by a high magnifying power, showing numerous, regularly 

 disposed, minute lenses, beneath the smooth, transparent, outer crust; pal- 

 pebral lobes semicircular, convex, and resting upon the eyes like lids. Cheeks 

 as compared with the size of the eyes and glabella, small, sloping abruptly from 

 the eyes into the deep, broad, marginal furrow, which becomes suddenly ob- 

 solete on reaching the anterior lateral margins of the glabella, and extends 

 backwards to, or even a little upon the posterior lateral, subspiuiferous ap- 

 pendages ; posterior margins with an elevated rim, strongly defined by the 

 deep continuation of the neck fnrrow ; lateral margins shonsing, as seen from 

 above, a narrow rim, which, in a side view, is seen to be deep, vertically flat- 

 tened, and marked by fine parallel longitudinal strije ; anteriorly it coutimies 

 around the front of the glabella, but does not project so as to be visible from 

 above, while its upper margin is continued in the form of a carina along the 

 middle of the posterior lateral spines to their points. Fascial sutures very 

 nearly as in the last species. 



Thorax nearly as long as the head, but somewhat narrower, very distinctly 

 trilobate ; mesial lobe prominent, rounded and a little wider than the lateral 

 lobes ; its nine segments narrow, and subangular. Lateral lobes depressed 

 and flattened near the mesial lobe, and so abruptly sloping from the outer 

 side of this flattened space as to impart a slight angulariiy along that region ; 

 .segments . corresponding in size with the segments of the mesial lobe, and 



fDec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



distinctly kneed near the middle, outside of wliicli they are bent down and 

 obliqely flattened for folding together and rounded at the extremities. 



Pygidium very convex, smaller than the cephalic shield, forming more than 

 a semicircle, with the anterior lateral angles obliquely truncated ; posterior 

 outline regularly rounded, with a moderately wide, smooth, depressed, nearly 

 fiat, or sloping marginal zone ; trilobation, as in the thorax, strongly defined ; 

 mesial lobe prominent, as wide anteriorly as one of the lateral lobes including 

 its border, distinctly flattened on each side, slightly tapering to an obtuse ter- 

 mination, less than half its own greatest anterior breadth from the posterior 

 edge, segments eleven or twelve, well defined above, but nearly obsolete on 

 the flattened sides. Lateral lobes convex, but distinctly less so than the mesial 

 lobe, horizontally flattened near the latter, with an angle along the outer 

 margin of the flattened space, from which the sides slope abruptly to the 

 flattened, smooth border ; segments six, simple, bent down in the middle, 

 very distinct, but terminating abruptly at the rather wide border ; each with 

 a minute pustule on the knee. 



Surface of glabella and all the segments more or less granulose, the gran- 

 ules being larger on the posterior part of the glabella and neck segment than 

 elsewhere. 



Entire length, 0-60 inch. Length of pygidium, 0*19 inch ; breadth of do. 

 0-27 inch ; length of thorax, 0-18 inch ; breadth of do. 0-28 inch; length of 

 cephalic shield, 0-23 inch ; breadth of do. 0-32 inch. 



As near as can be determined by a description of tlie pygidium alone, this 

 species would seem to be nearly related to P. Cliftonensis, of Shumard. The 

 middle lobe of its pygidium, however, is proportionally wider than in that 

 epeeies, being as wide as one of the lateral lobes including the smooth border ; 

 while in P. Cliftonensis it is said to equal one of the lateral lobes exclusive of 

 its border ; in addition to this. Dr. S. makes no allusion to the flattened sides 

 of this lobe, so characteristic of our species. We do not believe it always 

 possible, however, to distinguish allied species of this genus from the pygidia 

 alone, and hence, think it would be better if Palaeontologists would never pro- 

 pose a species without seeing also some of the other parts. At the same time 

 that our species may be identical with that described by Dr. S., it is* far more 

 probable that if we could compare entire specimens of each, we would find 

 them entirely distinct. 



We know of no described species, the head of which could be confounded 

 ■with this ; its comparatively large convex eyes, and distinct mesial node be- 

 tween the posterior lateral lobes of the glabella, and the deep vertically flat- 

 tened and striated lateral margins of its chee^ are marked characters, that 

 will readily distinguish it. Whether the proposed genus Grijffithidcs is to be 

 retained as a genus or a subgenus, this must be included in it, since it has the 

 posteriorly contracted glabella and smooth eyes of that tj'pe. We do not be- , 

 lieve, however, that non-reticulated eyes in any type of Trilobites proves 

 them to have been blind, for as in this case, they were doubtless always 

 provided with minute lenses beneath a transparent outer crust. 

 Locality and position. Upper Coal Measures, Springfield, Illinois. 



Phillipsia (Ghipfithides?) Sangamonensis, M. & W. 



Entire outline elongate subovate. Cephalic shield very convex, forming 

 more than a semicircle, and about one-third wider than long ; regularly 

 rounded in front and straight behind, with posterior lateral angles produced 

 into rather broad, carinated, pointed or subspinous appendages, equalling in 

 length the distance from the posterior side of the cheeks to the anterior end 

 of the eyes. Glabella ventricose, very prominent, separated from the cheeks 

 on each side by a moderately distinct furrow, which also passes around the 

 front ; most convex behind the middle, thence rounding and declining to the 

 rounded front, about one-fourth longer than wide, and slightly wider between 



1865.] 




272 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



the ejes than anteriorly ; sides nearly parallel, but a little sinuous at the 

 middle ; posterior lateral lobes comparatively large, subtrigonal or tuberculi- 

 form, and entirely isolated by the distinct lateral furrows passing obliquely 

 across with a backward curve, from opposite the middle of each eye, so as to 

 intersect the neck furrow ; second lateral lobes much smaller and more ob- 

 scure tlian those behind, and also oblique, being merely defined by a faintly 

 impressed, curved, oblique line ; in advance of these there are also obscure 

 indications of two other short, nearly obsolete lateral furrows, scarcely visi- 

 ble without a lens. Occipital segment well defined, but lower, and consider- 

 ably shorter in its transverse diameter than the glabella ; strongly arched up- 

 wards, (not forwards) and projecting backwards a little beyond the posterior 

 line of the cheeks ; neck furrow distinct and arching upward with the occi- 

 pital or neck segment ; i's continuation along the posterior sides of the cheeks 

 very deep, and nearly straight for ab«ut two-thirds of the way across towards 

 the lateral margins, where it intersects another furrow or depression, coming 

 around the sides of the cheeks. Eyes lunate, rather large, or nearly half as 

 long as the glabella, exclusive of the neck segment, prominent, but not as 

 high as the glabella, located about half their own length in' front of the po- 

 sterior margin of the cheeks ; visual surface smooth, or even apparently pol- 

 ished, and showing no traces of lenses under a good magnifier; palpebral 

 lobes convex, and not depressed, but resting like a lid upon the eyes. Cheeks 

 subtrigonal, declining abruptly from the eyes ; lateral margins turned down- 

 wards, and forming below a sharp edge, which continues back along the lower 

 margin of the posterior spine-like appendages ; above ihis there is a vertically 

 flattened, or even concave zone or belt, extending from near the fiont pan of 

 the glabella around the outside of each cheek, and becoming a shallow furrow 

 as it passes back upon the spines, along which it seems to be more or less 

 marked nearly to their pointed extremities ; between this vertically flattened 

 band and the eyes, there is another nearly horizontally flattened, or outward 

 sloping zone, extending around each cheek from near the front posteriorly, so 

 as to unite with the lateral continuations of the neck furrow beliind, and con- 

 tinue as a single furrow along the upper outer margin of the posterior spines, 

 thus leaving a more or less defined mesial ridge between these two furrows, 

 the entire length of the posterior lateral spiniferous appendages, as well as 

 around the cheeks to near the front of the glabella ; posterior margins of the 

 cheeks, behind the continuations of tbe neck furrow, very prominent, or form- 

 ing a thickened rim. Facial sutures extending obliquely forward and out- 

 ward from the anterior side of the eyes, and again curving inwards, so as to 

 cat the anterior margin nearly cfi a line with the anterior inner extremity of 

 the eyes ; from the posterior end of the eyes, directed obliquely outwards and 

 backwards, so as to intersect the posterior margin nearly midway between 

 the neck segment and the subspiniferous lateral posterior appendages. 



Thorax only known from a few of the posterior segments, which show the 

 mesial lobe to be wider and distinctly more prominent than the lateral lobes, 

 which are flattened near the mesial lobe, and abruptly deflected downwards near 

 the middle ; segments divided by a furrow near the anterior side from the 

 knee inwards, and flattened in the direction of the axis at the rounded outer 

 extremities. 



Pygidium semielliptic, slightly wider than long, and rather convex, dis- 

 tinctly narrower and a little longer than the cephalic shield, narrowing back- 

 wards and very narrowly rounded at the posterior extremity. Mesial lobe 

 prominent, a little flattened on each side, and narrower than the lateral lobes, 

 from which it is distinctly separated by broad, strong furrows ; tapering 

 gradually backwards, and terminating rather abruptly nearly one-third its 

 own length from the posterior margin, so as to leave a broad, nearly flat, or 

 more or less sloping, smooth lorder, which extends along each side the whole 

 length of the pygidium, but becomes narrower anteriorly ; segments of mesial 

 lobe, eighteen, well defined, rounded and very nearly or quite straigbt. Late- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27o 



ral lobes more depressed, and about one-third or one-fourth wider than the 

 mesial lobe, rounding down rather abruptly to the lateral margins ; segments 

 nine or ten, rounded, simple and separated by distinct furrows ; all terminat- 

 ing abruptly at the inner edge of the broad, smooth, marginal zone. 



Entire surface apparently very nearly smooth. 



Length of cephalic shield, exclusive of spiniferous appendages, 0'45 inch ; 

 breadth of same, 0-66 inch ; height of* do. 0-31 inch. Length of glabella, ex- 

 clusive of neck segment and anterior border, 0*36 inch ; breadth of same, 

 across the posterior lateral lobes, 0-29 inch ; do. of same across the constricted 

 central region, 25 inch; do. of same anteriorly, 0'2S inch. Length of eyes, 

 0'18 inch ; height of same behind, to top of palpebral lobes, O'OS inch. 

 Length of pygidium, 0'50 inch ; breadth of same, 0'.55 inch, 

 . This species seems to combine the characters of Puillipsia and Grijffilhides, 

 as usually understood, to such an extent as to apparently warrant Prof. Ko- 

 ninck's opinion that these two types can scai-cely be regarded as constituting 

 entirely distinct genera. In its somewhat swollen glabella and smooth eyes, 

 it agrees with the characters assigned Grijffithides, while in almost all its other 

 characters, it corresponds to Portlock's definition of his genus Phillipsia. We 

 know of no species witb which it is liable to be confounded. 



Locality and position. Springfield, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures. 



Note. — In our paper published in the Proceedings of the Academy for Aug., 

 1865, p. 154, we proposed the name Sph(vocriaus for a section of the genus 

 Actinocrinus, of which our A. concavus is the type. Since that time, we ob- 

 serve Roemer had previously used the name Sphcerocrinus for another group : 

 hence we now propose for our type the name Cxlocrinus. 



Decemher 12tTi. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, ia the Chair. 



Twenty -one members pre.sent. 

 The following paper was offered for publication: 

 "Second Contribution to the History of the Delphinidae." Bj 

 Prof. E. D. Cope. 



Prof. E. D. Cope exhibited the skeleton of a seal which was shot near Cam- 

 bridge, ilarjland, on an arm of Chesapeake Bay, eighteen miles from salt water, 

 by Mr. Daniel M. Henry. It was a species of Cystophora, or hooded seal, 

 measured 6J feet, and weighed, when living, about 330 lbs. The skin was not 

 preserved, but the fur of the extremitips was straw-colored. The nails very 

 strong and extended much beyond the palmar integument in its dried state. 



Whether this specie3 is the C. c ristata or an til la rum can not be 

 determined, owing to the imperfection of extant descriptions. Tbe c ristata 

 ha3 been taken as far south a3 New York. 



DeKay, in his Zoology, mentions a seal recorded by Mi'chill as having been 

 taken high up the Chesapeake, near Elkton. It; was probably the same as the 

 present. 



Prof. E. D. Cope also exhibitrd ?ome specimens of crania of Cetaceans of our 

 coast, and stated that the only species which could as yet be proven to belong 

 to our fauna were the following: 



Balaena cisartica, or Southern Risht Whale. 



Meg.ipiera osphyia, The Humpbacked Whale. 



Orca, sp.. The Killer. 



Globicephalns intermedins, or melas, The Black Fisb. 



Beluga canadensis, The White Whale. 



1865.] 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



PhocEeua brachyciura, The Northern Porpoise. 



Delphinus clymene. Dolphin. 



tursio, Black Dolphin. 



Hyperodon semijunclus, sp. nor., Southern BotLle-nose. 

 The remaining species are as yet undetermined. 



He also alluded to the existence of several species of White Whiles, probably 

 confounded hitherto, owing to their ifniform coloration. Similar uniformity 

 exists in various genera, as Corvus, Chasmarhynchus, etc. A species brought 

 by Dr. 1. 1. Hayes, from Upernavik, was called B. rhinodon, and a large one 

 presented by Dr. E. K. Kane was characterized under the name B. concreta- 



Dr. I. I. Hayes stated that the two skulls, mentioned by Prof. Cope as be- 

 longing to the genus Beluga, brought by him from Greenland, were obtained 

 from the Governor of Upernavik, as those of the White Whale. He also ob- 

 served, that during his voyage he had seen the White Whale abundantly as 

 far north as 78° N. lat. 



December \Qth. 

 The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



Prof. E. D. Cope exhibited some large, fresh specimens of Accipenaer seroti- 

 nus Raf., Scaphirhynchops platyrhynchus, Polyodon f o 1 i u m, and Buba- 

 lichthys taur u s from the Ohio. In regard to the geographical distribution 

 of fishes, he alluded to the species of the streams of the low lands of late for- 

 mation near the coast in New Jersey, Delaware, and southward, as being to a 

 considerable extent different from those of the streams which descend through 

 the rolling country which lies between this and the first ridges of the Alle- 

 ghenies. — a distribution repeating points observed among the plants. The 

 characteristic types are — 



Ambloplites pomotis, Hololepis erochroiis, 



Bryttus obesus, Aphredoderus sayanus, 



chaetodon, Melanura annulata, 



Apelies quadracus, Hybognathus procne, 



and certain species of Cyprinodontidas. Stilbius americanus and Moxos- 

 toma oblongum find a most congenial habitat in these sluggish streams, 

 though common spf cies of the upper country ; but the Exoglossum, Rhinich- 

 thys, Semotilus, ( = Ceratiekthi/s) are wanting, or very rare. Esox reticulatua ia 

 moat especially abundant. 



Of the list given, the Hybognathus occurs in still coves about dams in the 

 hill country, and Bryttus chaetodon, he was informed by J. Burke, had 

 been taken in a pond near Bristol., Pa., near the Delaware. Other than these 

 he knew of no example of the above species occurring in the upper country. 



December 2Qlh. 



The President, Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 275 



Observatioas on the Microscopic Shell Structure of SPIRIFER CXJSPIDATUS, 



Sowerby, and some similar American forms. 



BY r. B. MEEK. 



In his valuable and accurately illustrated work on the British Carboniferous 

 Brachiopoda, page 45, Mr. Davidson states that Spirifer cuspidattis, Sowerby, 

 "belongs to the genus Spirifer proper, and not to the subgenus Cijrtia,^^ as 

 he and others had supposed. He also adds that " no specimen of S. cuspi- 

 datus I have hitherto been able to examine, has exhibited a deltidium in its 

 entire conditiou, but which, in all probability, was not perforated by a circu- 

 lar foramen, as seen in true types of the subgenus Ci/rtia." In a note at the 

 bottom of the page containing his explanations of plate viii., however, of the 

 same work, he corrects the above statement as follows : "At page 45, I stated 

 that no specimen of S. cuspiilatui I had hitherto been able to examine pos- 

 sessed its deltidium, and that I considered it was, in all probability, not per- 

 forated by a circular foramen, as in the true types of the subgenus Cyrtia, 

 Subsequently, however, Mr. S. P. Woodward showed me the internal cast of 

 the ventral valve of a specimen in the British Museum, thought to have be- 

 longed to .S. cnspidatus, and derived from the Dolomitic carboniferous lime- 

 stone of Bredon llill, in which there is evidence that the deltidium was in 

 reality perforated by a circular foramen as in Cijrtia." Of this internal cast, 

 as well as of a gutta-percha mould made from it, Mr. Davidson gives good 

 ligures, on plate ix. (figs. 1 and la) of the work above cited. 



From these remarks, and the accompanying figures, it seemed to be nearly 

 or quite demonstrated, that S. cuftpidatus is a true Cyrtia, as had formerly 

 been supposed by Prof. McCoy and Mr. Davidson, and, as it is also the type 

 upon which Sowerby had founded his older genus Spirifer, it would follow, 

 as a matter of course, that Ci/rtia, Dalman, could only be regarded as an exact 

 synonym of the typical section of Spiriff'r, Sowerby, which view was adopted in 

 the work on the Palseontology of the Upper Missouri, by the writer and Dr. Hay- 

 den. It will also be observed that the shell structure of Spirifer is there de- 

 scribed as being irapuuctate, in accordance with the views of Dr. Carpenter 

 and Mr. Davidson in regard to the group to which we propose to restrict it, 

 after separating, generically, the punctate types Spiriferina and Cyrtina. 



Some examinations I have recently had an opportunity to mak<», however, 

 of the shell structure and internal characters of several American forms, 

 closely allied to, if not in some instances identical with, Spirifer cuspidatus, 

 as well as of a supposed authentic British example of that species, in the 

 collection of Mr. Worthen, at Springfield, have given rise to doubts in regard 

 to the correctness of some of these conclusions. 



I was led to make these examinations by observing in Mr. Worthen's col- 

 lection excellent specimens, apparently of Spirifer capax, Hall, (very similar 

 to S. cnspidatus, Sowerby) from Clarksville, Missouri, showing exactly the 

 form and internal characters of a genus Syringothi/ris, proposed by Prof. 

 Winchell, in the Proceedings of the Academy for January, 1S53. It will be 

 remembered that Prof. W. described the type of this genus as having the 

 form and general external characters of Spirifer cu-'pidatns, bat differing in 

 the possession of a curious internal tube connected with the inner side of a 

 kind of deep-seated, false deltidium, or transverse plate passing across be- 

 tween the dental laminae. Ha also states that the shell structure is impunctate. 



On examining the specimens above alluded to in Mr. Worthen's collection, 

 I at onc« observed their exact agreement in all internal characters, as well as 

 in the form, ornamentation, &^., with Syrinjothyris, but soon saw, while look- 

 ing at tliem with a goo 1 pojket lens, som! evidences of a punctate structure, 

 and, on afterwards placing fragments of the shell under a high magnifier, 

 where they CDuld be examine.l by transmitted light, they were found to be 

 .beyond doubt punctate. Subsequeully I mentioned this fact to Prof. Win- 



1865.] 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



cbell, at Chicago, and requested him to re-examine his typical specimens 

 of Syrhigotliyris, to see if he could discover any traces of punctures. 

 He afterwards informed me that he had done so, Lut could see no evidences 

 of punciures, and he kindly gave me a slip of glass upon which weie fastened, 

 with Canada balsam, fragments of liis typical specits and of another not yet 

 described, in neither of w hieh any punctures were visible. 



In this connection, liowever, it is proper to remark, that all of these frag- 

 ments are either very small, or so opaque and badly preserved, that the punc- 

 tures might not be apparent, even if they exist. It is also worthy of note 

 that in several shells of tliis type which I have examined, the punctures are very 

 small, and sodistant that fragments large enough to show clearly the punctures 

 as seen in the various tvpes of Terebratulicloe, miglit be without a single punc- 

 ture. From these facts, and others to be mentioned farther on, I am strongly 

 inclined to tliiuk Prof. Winchells specimens are not in a good condition 

 for showing the shell stiucture, and without intending to attribute any care- 

 lessness or want of discrimination to that gentleman, that the.^e species may 

 yet be found to be punctate when other spetimeus in a better state of preser- 

 vation are obtained. 



On looking farther through Mr. Worthen's collections, I saw other species 

 of this type, and examined their shell stiucture with the following results : 

 first, a form from Missouri, believed to be Spirifer suhcuspidatus. Hall, 

 from the Keokuk division of the subcarboni!erous series, (and thought by 

 Mr. Davidson, from an examination of examples from Illinois, to be identical 

 with European forms referred to S. cuspidatus), was examined, and found to 

 be unqutstionably punctate. The punctures are small and scattering, but 

 owing to the fact that they were, in the specimens examined, fiUed with dark 

 opaque matter, they could be very clearly seen by transmitted light, in thin 

 fragments saturated with Canada balsam. The interior of this shell is unknown 

 to me. 



Next, specimens of apparently another species or variety, (scarcely, if at 

 all, distinguishable, by external characters at least, from certain forms of S. 

 cuspidatus as usually understood), from the fine-grained sandstone of the 

 Knobbs, back of Albany, Indiana, were examined, and also discovered to be 

 clearly and unquestionably punctate, the punctures being small and scatter- 

 ing as in tlie last. Internal casts of this sliell, from the same locality, show 

 it to possess exactly the internal characters of Si/ringothyris, Winchell. 



Having thus found the punctate structure clearly visible in the several 

 American forms mentioned, a specimen of 6\ cuspidatus, sent by Mr. Davidson 

 to Mr. Woithen from Millicent Island, was examined, and quite unexpected- 

 ly found to be also clearly punctate, like the American forms. This Irish speci- 

 men is not in a condition to sliow the interior, but on remo\ ing some ot the ma- 

 trix from the foramen it was found to possess, near tlie beak at least, the trans- 

 verse plate, or deep-seated false deltidium, seen in Syring^^thyris, though it was 

 impossible to determine, witliout spoiling the specimeii,^liether or not the 

 characteiis'.ic tube exists in connection v. ith its inner side. 



Now when it is remembered that as careful, conscientious, and accurate an 

 observer as Dr. Carpenter, has pronounced the structure of Spir if rr cuspidatus 

 impuuctate,* after a thorough examination, the question naturally suggests 

 itself, whether there may not be two closely similar, but really very distinct, 

 Britisli types confounded under the single specific name ^'. cuspidatus '^ that 

 is, one witli a punctate structure and another without it. If so, and the punctate 

 structure is here, as I am much inclined to believe, coincident with the pecu- 



• After speaking of the fact that Mr. DaTi<J.«on harl, on other grourds, divided the Spirifer 



group into te:tions, which it was also found cou'd be distinguished by tht;ir shell structure, Dr. 

 arpentor rtjiiarks that •' under the subgenus Cyriia, he [Mr. Davidson] places these impunctate 

 epecies, which, like C. trapezoidulis. have a perforation for the pas.'-age of a pedicle; bes-iJes Ihefe 

 gpecies 1 have examined C cuspidaLa, {^ ^ynri/er cuspidatut;,] and am fully satisfied that in 

 neither ( f these do any perforations Ciist." {Davidson's Introduction to the Classification of th* 

 iiradixopoda. p. o4. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHIA. 277 



liar internal characters of Sijrhignthi/ris, it becomes a matter of some interest 

 to know upon which of these types Sowerby formed tlie genus Spiri/er. If it 

 was upon the one wilh a punctate structure and an internal tube, then Si/ringo- 

 thyris would apparently be an exact synonym of the genus Spirifer, which 

 would differ from the ordinary types usually referred to that genus, such as 

 S, striatum for instance, (= Trigonotreta, group of Kcenig, ) as widely as the 

 latter differs from Spiriferina and Ci/rtina. If, on the contrary, Sowerby'B 

 type was an impunctate shell without the internal characters of Sijringnthyris, 

 or in other words a Trigonointa, then Syringothyris would stand as a distinct 

 group, differing from Spirifer proper in as important characters as those dis- 

 tinguishing Spiriferina and Cyrti?ia. 



Since seeing some of the internal casts of Syringothyris, in Mr. Worthen's 

 collection, showing the peculiar appearances produced by the impressions left 

 by the false deltidium and its attached internal tube, I have been struck with 

 their similarity to the figures given by Mr. Davidson, (on plate ix. of his work 

 already cited), of an internal cast of a supposed example of S. cuspidafus, 

 thought to indicate the presence of a perforation through the deltidium. It 

 is also worthy of note that Mr. Davidson refers this specimen to S. cuspidatus 

 with doubt, and says it denotes the presence of a "tubular" perforation. 

 Hence, I am very much inclined to the opinion that it rather indicates the in- 

 ternal characters of Syringothyris, than of an actual perforation through the 

 deltidium, as in Cyrtia* and thus seems to sustain the view that there may 

 be at least a part of the British specimens referred to S. cnspidatux, possessing 

 the internal characters of Syringothyris. This opinion receives further sup- 

 port, too, from the fact that Prof. McCoy, in describing S. cu-pidatus from 

 Irish examples, says it has an " internal, deep-seated pseudo-deltidium, with- 

 out perforation, leaving only an opening at its base." 



It is to be hoped that those who may have Ruplicate authentic British ex- 

 amples of Spirifer cu^pidatw, may be induced to make sec'ions across the 

 beak of the ventral valve, with the view of ascertaining whether or not any 

 of them have the internal tube of Syringothyris, and if so, to ascertain 

 whether the punctate structure is coincident wilh the presence of this internal 

 appendage. 



It may be proper to repeat here, for the information of those who may ba 

 disposed to make such observations, that in all of these shells I have exam- 

 ined, the punctures are very small, scattering and not arranged with tlie regu- 

 larity seen inmost types of Terebratnlid(e, or in Cyr' ina, Spiriferina, Sm. Where 

 they happen, as is often the case, to be filled with matter of the same color 

 and translucency as the fibers composing the shell, it is exceedingly difficult 

 to see them. When very small fragments only are examined, they may like- 

 wise be readily overlooked, as the fragment may contain but one or two of 

 them, in which case they might not attract attention. Where they are filled, 

 however, with dark or opaque matter, and a fragment, say 0-03 of an inch or 

 more in diameter, is examined with a moderately low power, they are very 

 distinctly seen, and cannot be for a moment mistaken for any appearance 

 produced by a merely accidental cause. 



Note. — It may not be out of place to add here, that the writer and Mr. 

 Worthen have ascertained that the Coal-measure species, Spirifer haniplicatus, 

 (Hall,) is a distinctly punctate shell, and that it has not the inttrnal charac- 

 ters of Sjnrifr or Spirifrinn, but those of Orlhis, excepting that there are in 

 the ventral vaUe three prominent, very closely approximate, and nearly par- 

 allel laminte, extending from the beak forward to near the mi>ldle of the valve. 

 Hence we regard it as the type of a new group, probably a section of the genus 

 Orthis, for which we have in MSS. proposed the name Syntrilasma, M. & W. 



• It is not improl able, however, that the tube in Syrivycithyris niny have B<inclimfH. in young 

 nheli, been connecteU with an external opening through the deltidium, though nouo of the 8;jcci- 

 mens I haytj seen shows such an opening. 



18(35.] 




278 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Second Contribution to a History of the DELFHINID^. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



Beluga r h i n o d o n, sp. nov. 



Dr. Isaac I. Hayes brought, from his last Arctic expedition, the skeletons 

 of two evidently different species of White Whales. These, with another in 

 the Academy's Museum, brought by Dr. E. K. Kane, I enumerated as speci- 

 mens of the common Beluga catodon, in my ''First Contribution to the 

 History of the Delphinida?," but subsequently, after a thorough study, I was 

 compelled to believe they had belonged to as many species, and recorded 

 them as such at a meeting of the Academy, (vide Proceedings, 1865, p. 274.) 

 After a study of more extended material, I have come to the conclusion that 

 the genus of White Whales, like that of Corvus, Quiscalus, etc., is represented 

 by several species of similar color. This view is consistent with our know- 

 ledge of its distribution throughout all the Arctic seas, and the great num- 

 bers in which they occur on the coasts of all Arctic regions. At present I 

 give briefly the diagnostic characters of four species, premising that I have 

 not at present means of determining the full characters of two, — Beluga 

 Vermont an a, Thompson, and Beluga k i n g i i, Gray. The present speciea 

 comes under section 



a. Cervical vertebrae distinct ; no vertebral canal ; dorsals and ribs ten ; 

 acromion recurved. 



Muzzle short, to notch equal from notch to supraoccipital crest; exposed 

 prenareal part of maxillaries extending to opposite notch. Palatines barely 

 in contact ; vomer well developed behind them. No tubercular process on 

 first rib. Teeth 4 — 6. 



Beluga c ato d o n, auctorum. 



Muzzle to notch one-half of whole cranium ; exposed portion of maxilla- 

 ries half way to notch ; palatines much in contact ; vomer scarcely developed 

 behind ; first rib with an elongate tubercular process. Teeth '• 8 — 8 to 10 

 —10." 



euL, Cervical vertebras distinct, no vertebral canal : dorsals and riba 

 eleven ; acromion decurved. 



Beluga d e cl i V i s, sp. nov. 



Muzzle to notch half length of cranium ; exposed portion of maxillaries 

 half way to notch ; palatines widely separated; vomer well developed be- 

 hind them; first rib with an elongate tubercular process. Teeth 9 — 10. 



«*«. Axis and third vertebra anchylosed by centrum and diapophyses, 

 latter perforate for vertebral artery; dorsals and ribs eleven ; acro- 

 mion recurved. 



Beluga c n ere t a, sp. nov. 



Muzzle to notch half total length of cranium ; exposed portion of maxilla- 

 ries half way to notch; palatines largely in contact; vomer little developed 

 behind them. No tubercular process on first rib. Teeth 6 — 7. 



In the d e c 1 i V i s and concreta the neural spine of the axis is steeply 

 tectiform and keeled; in the catodon and rhino don very flat. The 

 diapophyses of the seventh cervical are longer and more recurved in the 

 rhinodon than in the others. 



The length of the skeleton of the rhinodon is 7 feet 10| inches; of 

 the concreta 13 feet 2 J inches. The former, and that of the c a t o d o n, 

 are from Upernavik ; those of the concreta and d e c 1 i v i s were obtained 

 by Dr. Kane ; the last is in the Museum Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, 

 Mass. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



The White Whale of the St. Lawrence, Delphinus canadensis of Des- 

 marest, figured roughly after Duhamel by Gray, (Zool. Erebus and Terror,) 

 aud recently described by Prof. Jeffries Wyman in the Proc. Bost. Society 

 Nat. Jlistory, is distinct from the preceding species. In all of them there is 

 a strong postero-inferior medial process of the atlas, not seen in Dr. Wyman's 

 figures, and in none is the odontoid process prolonged or elevated ; his 

 figure represents a deeper (thicker) axis, and more elevated atlas than any ol 

 the preceding possess. The rudimental dorsal fin and auricular meatus do 

 not exist in the true catodon, (syn. B. albicans.) carefully described by 

 Barclay and Neill in the Wernerian Transactions, 1817, (the former repre- 

 sented by a ridge only;) nor do Pallas and others allude to a dorsal fin, as 

 observed by Dr. Wyman. The complete vertebral canal of the third cervical 

 vertebra is, perhaps, also a character. In a specimen ten feet in length, the 

 seven cervicals measured seven inches, which is the length given for those of 

 a catodon of fourteen feet. 



The Beluga canadensis must be included in the fauna of the United 

 States, though not included in the published New York or Massachusetts faunae. 

 Josselyn states, page 105 of "An account of two vbyages to New England, 

 (1673,)" ''The sea hare is as big as a grampus or herring-hog, and as white as 

 a sheet. There hath been some of them at Black Point Harbour, Maine, and 

 some way up the river, but we could never take any of them ; several shot slugs 

 at them, "but lost their labour." Verrill, in his Catalogue of the Mammals, 

 observed at Anticosti iu the summer of 1861,* does not enumerate this spe- 

 cies. He notes two species of Megaptera, which is probably the first record 

 of the Megaptera osphyia, (Proc. Acad., 1865,178.) 



Phoccena brachycium. 



Two specimens (Nos. 105-6) from the Museum of the Essex Institute at 

 Salem, Mass., which has lent me, through Fredk. W. Putnam, Director,! nu- 

 merous specimens of Cetaceans, represent this species. It is found in the 

 harbor of that port, and is called the " Puffing Pig." 



As compared with the P. communis, the muzzle is less acuminate and 

 elevated on the median Hue ; the maxillaries are flatter, oblique, and not de- 

 scending vertically to the alveolar border. The triangle is more elevated, 

 and not flat, medially, and extends to beyond the posterior fourth of the 

 dental series. The premaxillary knobs are strongly developed, and their 

 posterior acumination does not extend behind the middle of the margin of 

 the nareal opening. Nasals with a curved concavity and external prominence. 

 The squamosal bone, occipital process, and sphenoid border are much pli- 

 cated. The points of insertion of the muscles on the basioccipital bone are 

 situate one opposite each condyle, instead of on a median longitudinal ridge. 

 A very small triangular surface of the vomer reaches the palatine plane, 

 giving its posterior border little of that W-sbaped outline produced in the 

 P. c o m m u n i s by the large devclopement of the vomer. The pterygoids arc 

 broader than in the same species, nor prolonged so far posteriorly. 



The distance from the coronoid process to the angle of the mandible en- 

 ters 3f times into the length of the ramus ; its middle is measured by the 

 lower part of the condyle. The alveolar border is half the length of the 

 ramus to the coronoid process. 



The sella turcica is but little depressed, and the corpus olivare little ele- 

 vated. The bony falx is well developed near the foramen magnum, but 

 rapidly diminishes superiorly ; no tentorium. There is a lateral I'outanello 

 on the supraoccipital of one specimen, none on the other. 



• Proc. Bost. Soc. :V. II., 1S62, 1.35. 



t Not Secretary, as accidentally mentioned in my first "Contribution." 



1865.] 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



106 105 



Inch. Line. Inch. Line. 



Length from end muzzle to convexity of occipital con- 

 dyle 11... 1-2 11-... 4 



Length from end muzzle to basal notch 4... 6 4... 7-6 



" " " nares 5... 7-2 5.... 8 



" " " supraoccipital crest 8... 10-4 8. ..10-8 



" of ramus mandibuli 8... 7... 9 



Breadth at middle of alveolar border 1...11-4 1... 9-3 



" notch 2... 9-6 2... 10 



" middle of orbits 5... 0-4 4... 7-8 



" temporal crests 5... 0-5 4... 10-5 



" of blow holes 1... 3 1... 2 



" premaxillary knobs 1... 6-8 1.,. 5-4 



" premaxillaries at middle muzzle 0...10-5 0...11 



" palatines anteriorly 1...11 1... 9 



" angles of mandible 4... 8-6 4... 9 



Length of upper tooth line 3... 6-3 3... 9-2 



" gonys 1... 0... 9 8 



Depth of ramus at middle tooth line 0... 8-4 0... 7-2 



Teeth ^ il 



24 21 



The OS hyoides has somewhat the form of a caudal fluke. The anterior 

 extremity is grooved below; the hfKmal apophyses are broader than the body, 

 convex exteriorly, thin oa the edges, and tapering to a very small articular 

 extremity. Length of body 1 iuch 5-8 lines. Extent of apophyses 3 incheg 

 8-6 lines. 



Prof. Wyman states,* that in "the porpoise," probably following Cuvier, 

 the seven cervical vertebrae are anchylosed. Hunter states of the Phocsena 

 communis that the four anterior only are united. 



Hyperodon s e m i j u n c t u s, sp. nov. 



The question as to whether a Hyperodon exists on this side the Atlantic, 

 has at length been solved by the description which I have received through 

 Dr. Alexander Wilcocks of this city, of a species taken in Charleston Har- 

 bor. This is well drawn up by Gabriel Manigault, who set up the specimen, 

 which adorns the Charleston Museum. The points wherein it evidently 

 differs from its congeners, the H. bid ens and latifrons, are, first, 

 the separation of the four posterior cervical vertebrre, the three anterior 

 only being solidly anchylosed, instead of the seven, as in the known species, 

 even in the young, according to Dr. J. E. Gray. Second, the possession 

 of one or more pair of ribs added to the flying series, and of two more ver- 

 tebrae, including ten dorsals instead of nine.f Five ribs are connected with 

 the sternum, of which the anterior articulates with the seventh cervical by 

 its inferior head. 



I extract the following from Gabr. Manigault's description : 

 " The superior maxillary bones are quite pointed in front and widen out 

 towards the base of the snout. Their lateral edges become developed on 

 each side into a prominent vertical ridge, which is slightly convex on the 

 outer surface, and the reverse on the inner. These bones, after having 

 widened out upon approaching the orbits, ascend vertically along with the 

 occipital (the two together holding the frontal, which is quite perceptible, 

 between them.) and form at the back of the head a irans\rerse ridge, which 

 is quite high and very thick. From my not knowing by what name it was 



* Journ. Bjst. Soe. N. Hist., 1863, p. 669. 



t Nine are given by Cuvier, Ossemens Fossiles, yiii. 188 ; and Flower, Proc. Zool. Soc, Lond., 

 1864, 419. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



known, I did not satisfy myself concerning the presence of palatine tuber- 

 cles. Another peculiarity of the head consists in the lower maxillary bones 

 being provided each at its point with a single small and very sharp tooth. 

 These were not noticed during the dissection, owing to their being too much 

 imbedded in the integuments ; they are now, however, quite visible. la the 

 cavity of the skull is a septum of bone separating the cerebrum from the 

 cerebellum, {i. e. the tentorium.) The first rib is very wide and short, and 

 presents a marked contrast to the others. The sternum is quite flat and wide. 

 The pectoral fins are small, and have been carefully preserved, with the 

 various carpal and phalangeal bones kept together by their natural liga- 

 ments. As the skeleton stands, the fins consist only of the scapula, the hu- 

 merus, the radius, and the ulna, with but few phalanges. 



" The length of this specimen is between twelve and thirteen feet." 



Delphinus ere b enn u s, sp. nov. 



This species has been noticed, Proc. Academy, 1865, p. 199, as the D. 

 t u r s i o, though sundry differences were there enumera,ted, and the possibility 

 of its distinctness pointed out. The only specimen at that time in the Acade- 

 my's possession was the skeleton of a young animal. Since then, the institu- 

 tion has been presented with a skeleton of a very old individual by Dr. Howell 

 of this city, who obtained the animal some years since from a fisherman's 

 seine at Red Bank, below opposite this city. Like a usual form of the t u r- 

 s i o, the species is probably entirely black, but smaller, and possessed of 

 several less ribs and dorsal vertebrae. The skeletons of the American species 

 agree in the following formula: U. 7. D. 11. L. 16. C. 4 to 8 to last neural 

 spine. The first perforated caudal is two vertebras anterior in the older, to 

 that of the younger specimen. The separate vertebras resemble those figured 

 by Cuvier (Ussemens Fossiles) except the 12th caudal. It is doubtful, how- 

 ever, whetlier the latter represents the t u r s io, as the vertebral formula dif- 

 fers much from that recorded by Hunter, (Philos! Trans., 1787, 383,) which 

 must probably be regarded as the type, {vide Grav, Cat. Brit. Mus.,) as fol- 

 lows : C. 7. D. 18. L. and C. 37. 



The acromion in the erebennus is short, and broadly truncate. In the 

 small processes of the cervical vertebrae the two specimens differ much, the 

 larger being much the more unlike the t u r s i o. Their position is elevated 

 opposite the middle of the centra, and two of them have a weak connection 

 with the superior process, forming a vertebral canal. The diapophysis of 

 the atlas is short. As in the t u r s i o, this vertebra and the axis are anchy- 

 losed. The abbreviation of the sternum, apparent in the young specimen, is 

 borne out by the adult. All the original segments are abbreviated, but es- 

 pecially the posterior, which is not more than one-third the length given in 

 Cuvier's figure of the t u r s i o ; it is joined at much shorter distances by the 

 same number of haemapophyses — five. In this specimen it is singularly un- 

 symmetrical; the animal exhibits numerous exostoses, and a synostosis of 

 the body and processes of two of the lumbar vertebrae. 



This species has been also mentioned by Prof. Wyman as the tursio. 



The length of the specimen presented by Dr. Howell is seven feet and a 

 half. The teeth are truncated as in the adult tursio. 



The Annual Reports of the Recording Secretary and Curators were 

 read, as tollows : 



1865.] 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY, 



For 1865. 



During the year ending November 30th, 1865, there have been elected 

 twenty-five members and seven correspondents. 



The deaths of the following members and correspondents have been 

 announced. 



Members. — Dr. Thos. B. Wilson, Major Chas. Izard Maceuen, Dr. Wm. Dar- 

 rach, Fernando de la Cuesta, Wm. Parker Foulke, Jos. Hopkinson, Surgeon 

 U. S. v., Jas. Dundas, J. Reese Fry, Richard Price, Jacob R. Smith, Joseph D. 

 Brown, Dr. Francis M. Moore. 



At the Annual Meeting, the following additional were announced : Dr. 

 W. M. Ubler, Rev. Dr. Ducachet. 



.Correspondents : Dr. R. M. S. Jackson, Wm. Jackson Hooker, Chas. J. Wister, 

 Wm. F. Lynch. 



One member has resigned. 



The number of papers contributed and ordered to be published, during 

 the same time, has been fifty-one, as follows: 



E. D. Cope, seven; Isaac Lea, LL. D., 3; John Cassin, 4; F. W. Lewis, 

 M. D., 1 ; A. Giinther, 1 ; Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 1 ; Geo. N. Lawrence, 2 ; F. B. 

 Meek and A. H. Worthen, 5 ; Philip P. Carpenter, 1 ; Theo. Gill, 1 ; Timothy 

 A. Conrad, 3 ; Alex. Winchell, 1 ; C. A. Helmuth, M. D., 1 ; John L. Le Conte, 

 M. D., 4; Horatio C. Wood, Jr., M. D., 1 ; Harrison Allen, M. D., 1. 



The resignation of Prof. Rand, from the ofBce of Recording Secretary, hav- 

 ing been tendered, it was accepted at the October business meeting, and Dr. 

 H. 0. Wood, Jr., was elected in his stead. 



Chap. III., Art. VII., of the By-Laws, has been amended, by striking oat 

 the second clause, viz. : "but correspondents residing in the United States 

 shall be charged with a diploma fee of five dollars. 



Chap. III., Art. IV., has been amended by striking out the word " all," 

 and substituting therefor "three-fourths of," and adding at the end bf the 

 Article the words "not less than fifteen members being present. 

 All of which is respectfully submitted. 



HORATIO C. WOOD, Jr., 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OP THE CURATORS, 



For 1865. 



The Curators respectfully present their usual Annual Report, for the year 

 just about closing, on the condition of the Building and Museum of the 

 Academy, committed to their supervision and care. They have to regret, in 

 the commencement, to represent their charge, in some degree, in an unfavor- 

 able aspect. The collections in natural history, during a series of years, 

 have increased with such rapidity, and have accumulated to such an extent, 

 that they have outgrown the proper capacity of the building, and we find 

 ourselves exceedingly cramped to accommodate the incessant additions. 

 Further than this, three departments, which comprise the most destructible 

 objects of natural history, have become so extensive, that we can no longer 

 command the voluntary labor of members and committees sufficient and 

 essential to keep them in proper order and preservation. The large and 

 magnificent collection of birds is actually suffering from the want of atten- 

 tion, and must inevitably be destroyed if further neglected ; and the same 

 may be said of the entomological cabinet, the herbarium, and, indeed, of all 

 the perishable collections. 



To preserve the ornithological cabinet, it has become absolutely necessary 

 that the Curators should be authorized to employ the services of a compe- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



tent person to attend to it at the earliest possible moment. This can be 

 done at the rate of one hundred dollars monthly, and would, in the course 

 of a year, ensure the temporary preservation of the collection. The matter 

 is so important, that we hope the Academy may feel disposed to take some 

 immediate action on it, even with the apprehension of future pecuniary 

 embarrassment. 



In relation to other perishable departments of our Museum, the Curators 

 have recently taken steps by which they expect to be temporarily enabled to 

 ensure their safety ; but we feel it to be of the greatest necessity that, at an 

 early period, the Academy should attempt to make permanent arrangements 

 by which all departments of the Museum may be properly arranged and 

 preserved. 



We would further urge upon the Academy the importance of looking for- 

 ward to procure more ample accommodation for its ever-growing Museum 

 and Library ; and, indeed, we now feel greatly the want of at least double 

 our present space. A new building, two or three times the size of the one 

 we now occupy, together with a lecture-room capable of seating about five 

 hundred persons, and several minor conveniences, would greatly aid the views 

 of the Academy, and render it far more useful to the interests of science 

 and of the community in which we live. 



The accompanying list exhibits the contributions to the Museum of the 

 Academy in its various departments during the year 1865. 



Mammals and Birds. — Three species of the former and ten species of the 

 latter, together with fifty species of birds' eggs, were presented by the Chi- 

 cago Academy of Sciences. 



Reptiles and Fishes. — Of the former. Prof. E D. Cope presented 30 speci- 

 mens of 7 species of batrachians, and of the latter, 319 specimens of 70 

 species. Three reptiles and ten fishes were presented by Messrs. C. Guillou 

 T. Norris, W. M. Cauley, and Dr. J. M. Corse. 



Mollusks. — Four hundred species of shells of Mazatlan and Cape St. Lucag 

 were purchased. Eight hundred species of shells, of which about 300 were 

 new to the Cabinet of the Academy, chiefly from the collection of the 

 Wilkes' Exploring Expedition, were presented by the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Mr. G. W. Tryon, Jr., presented 164 species of shells, mostly new to our 

 Cabinet ; Dr. Isaac Lea, 24 species ; and J. H. Thomson, 32 species. Six 

 other species were presented by Messrs. H. F. Picking, B. Oman, and Dr. 

 Semple. 



Articulates. — Twenty-seven species of myriapods and spiders were pre- 

 sented by the Smithsonian Institution, H. C. Wood, E. D. Cope, and M. Miles. 



Fossils. — A small collection of New Jersey Cretaceous Fossils, a collection 

 of 93 species from the Upper Missouri, and a collection from the Wilkes' 

 Exploring Expedition, were presented by the Smithsonian Institution. Col. 

 H. Romanowsky presented 36 species from Russia, and small collections and 

 specimens were presented by Dr. J. Letterman, U*. S. A., W. S. Vaux, P. 

 Tarbe, J. P. Lesley, F. Klett, Dr. J. L. Burtt, W. Anderson, J. G. Thayer, W. 

 L. Mactier, R. Glover, J. H. Slack, A. Du Bois, G. J. Scattergood, and J. 

 Da Costa. 



Minerals. — Forty-two specimens were presented by Dr. I. Lea, W. S. Vaux, 

 J. C. Trautwine, P. W. Sheafer, A. Du Bois, B. A. Hoopes, E. A. Souder, F. 

 Klett, W. J. Vinal, J. B. Ware, Dr. Semple, and H. S. Stellwagen. 



Botany. — John Warner presented 200 species of Alpine plants, and several 

 species were presented by Messrs. Garnett and T. E. Kidgway. 



Comparative Anatomy. — Two mounted skeletons were presented by G. K. 

 Manigault, of Charleston, and three by Dr. J. M. Corse. Miscellaneous 

 specimens were presented by F. Klett and Dr. Leidy. 



Respectfully submitted by 



JOSKPH LEIDY, 

 Chairman of the Curators. 



1865.] 




284 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CONCHOLOGY, 



For 1865. 



To the Curators of the Academy of Natural Sciences : 



Gentlemen, — During the present year the Concholcigical collection has been 

 increased by the addition of abjut 1400 species (4000 specimens) of which 

 more than one half are new to us. 



Among these donations, two deserve especial notin.e, viz. : 



1st. A collection of 400 species from Mazatlan and Cape St. Lucas. These 

 are named by Mr. Philip P. Carpenter, and the collection is extremely valuable 

 to us, from the fact that this gentleman has devoted many years to the special 

 sludy of the MoUusca of our Pacific Coast. 



A small portion of this collection was purchased by the Academy, but most 

 of the species were generously presented by .Mr. Carpenter, who, in many cases, 

 has contributed the only duplicates of rare species from bis own cabinet. 



2d. Vfe have received from the Smithsonian Institution over 800 species of 

 shells collected by Wilkes' Exploring Expedition. These shells have all been 

 labellfcd by the Ute Mr. Hugh Cuming, after comparison with the types in hia 

 own collection. Among them are a number of types of new species described 

 by Dr. A. A. Gould, in his "Report on the MoUusca of the Expedition." 



With great satisfaction the Committee announce to you that, with a few 

 trifling exceptions, they have during the present year completed the labelling 

 and arrangement of the entire Conchological Collection. The task has been 

 an arduous one ; over 7000 labels have been written, and corresponding entries 

 made in the Catalogue during the year. 



la almost every instance it has been necessary to determine the species by 

 reference to the Library of the Academy. The splendid donations of shells 

 made by the late Dr. T. B. Wilson, were accompanied by loose numbers refer- 

 ring to catalogues drawn up by eminent London Conchologists ; in the con- 

 fusion attending the removal of our collection when the last addition was 

 made to our building, nearly all of these numbers were so displaced as to be 

 useless. This confusion, (certainly unavoidable, as the Academy has never 

 possessed adequate means to ensure the proper care of its collections) is deeply 

 to be regretted, as the Committee have been compelled to substitute their own 

 instead of the original more authentic labels. The Academy has not recently 

 been able to continue to supply its library with Conchological works, which 

 has increased our difficulties. 



When Dr. Wilson's collections were presented to the Academy, they con- 

 tained about 400 new species. These were not published in England until 

 several years afterwards, and if we had possessed the means to have them im- 

 mediately labelled and exhibited, we would doubtless have published most of 

 them in our Proceedings, and thus received a large portion of the renown 

 which has attached to an European Journal among Conchologists. 



The Cabinet now contains upwards of 13,000 species, and is the largest in 

 America. 



Having no published Catalogue of our collection and its duplicates, a neces- 

 sary basis fir extensive exchanges, the Committee have effected very little in 

 this way. There is probably no other department of the Museum possessing 

 such numerous duplicates, so that the collection couid be greatly enlarged by 

 exchanges. 



The systematic classification of the shells was, until this year, chiefly La- 

 marckian, but the Committee have substituted for this the more scientific 

 arrangement of recent systematists. At present the mariue shells are classi- 

 fied according to tbe system of Messrs. H. and A. Adams, w,th modifications ; 

 the terrestrial shells according to that of Dr. Louis Pfeiffer, and the Unionidae 

 and fresh water Gasteropoda to those of Messrs. Lea, Binney and Tryon. The 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 285 



Committee have not been able, however, to exhibit the families and genera in 

 their proper sequence, on account of the over-crowded condition of the cases, 

 but this can be readily remedied at any time that we possess more space. 



We also regret the want of space exceedingly, because it debars us from ex- 

 hibiting those interesting geographical series, which to a naturalist are not less 

 instructive than a collection of species ; enabling us to acquire a knowledge 

 of the limits and variations of species, as determined by climatal and other in- 

 fluences. 



Nearly double our present space is required for the proper exhibition of the 

 collection which we already possess, and a small appropriation to publish a 

 catalogue, would enable us to increase largely and rapidly. 



While we deem it but right that the Academy, through you, should be made 

 acquainted with our wants, the Committee forbear to press them at this time, 

 being well aware that other departments of the collection require the first, and 

 immediate pecuniary aid of the Academy. 



Respectfully yours, 



GEORGE W. TRTON, Jr., 



For Committee on Conchology. 



The election of officers for the ensuing year was held in accordance 

 with the By-Laws, with the following result: 



President Isaac Hays, M. D. 



Vice-Presidents Wm. S. Vaux. 



• John Cassin. 



Corresponding Secretary T. Stewardson, M. D. 



Recording Secretary H. C. Wood, Jr., M. D. 



Treasurer "W. C. Henszey. 



Curators Joseph Leidy,M. D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 E. D. Cope. 



Auditors Joseph Jeanes, 



Aubrey H. Smith, 

 Wm. S. Vaux. 



Publication Committee Robert Bridges, M. D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 Joseph Leidy, M. D., 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



1865.] 19 




286 ELECTIONS. 



ELECTIONS FOR 1865. 



The following persons were elected Members, — viz. : 



Jan. 31. — Eckley Coxe. 



Feb. 28. — Jas. C. Thompson, Chas. Kinsman. 

 April 25. — Jos. W. Drexel. 

 May^d. — J. B. McCreary, Henry Bryant, M. D. 

 June 27. — Edward Browning. 



July 25.— Lt. Gen'l. Ulysses S. Grant, Maj. Gen. Geo. C Meade. 

 Aug. 29. — Benj. Smith Lyman, Henry "Winsor, Chas. F. Parker. 

 Sept. 26. — Vincent Barnard, A. Hugel, John Brady, John B. Wood. 

 Oct. 31.— Dr. J. H. McQuillen, John M. Maris. 

 Dec. 5. — Newbold H. Trotter. Frederick Klett, S. Emlen Randolph, 

 Alfred B. Taylor, E. DieflFenbaugh, Isaac Burk. 

 Dec. 26.— Jas. H. Orne. 



The following were elected Correspondents : 



Jan. 31. — Rev. Ovide Brunet, of Quebec. 



Feb. 28.— Chas. Stodder, of Boston. 



May 30. — 'Wm. Theo. Roepper, of Bethlehem, Pa. 



June 11 . — Leo Lesquereux, of Columbus, Ohio. 



Aug. 29. — Lieut. Col. Hennadius Romanowsky, of St. Petersburg, 

 Russia. 



Sept. 26.— P. D. Knieskern, M. D., of Shark River Village, N. J. 



Dec. 5. — Lewis H. Morgan, of Rochester, N. Y. ; Prof. Durieu de 

 Maisonneuve, of Bordeaux, France. 



Dec. 26. — Augustus R. Grote, of New York; Thos. Kite, of Cin- 

 cinnati, Ohio. 




CORRESPONDENCE. 287 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMi', 



For 1865. 



Letters were received and read as follows: 



January 3(^.— Natural History Society in Emden, Oct. 25tli, 18G4, advising 

 of their proposed celebration of their 50th anniversary on the 29th of De- 

 cember, 1864, and inviting the members of the Academy thereto. 



The Royal Academy of Sciences of Madrid, Nov. 16th, 1864, acknowledging 

 the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



January 11 fh. — A. Boivin, Paris, May 23d, 1864, acknowledging his election 

 as correspondent. 



February 1th. — Baron Osten-Sacken, New York, Feb. 1st, 1865, in regard to 

 exchange with the Natural History Society in connection with the University 

 of Moscou. 



February 2\st. — Maximilian, Prince de Weid, Nieuwied, Feb. 5th, 1865. ac- 

 knowledging his election as correspondent. 



Theo. Gill, on a correction to a paper published in the last number of the 

 Proceedings. 



March I4(h. — Royal Asiatic Society, London, July 20th, 1864; 



Natural History Society of East Altenburg, July 26th, 1864; transmitting 

 their publications and acknowledging the receipt of those of the Academy. 



The Imperial Academy of Sciences, Moscow, June 15th, 1864; 



The Natural History Society of Freiburg, Oct. 20th, 1864; 



The Rojal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, Nov. 16th, 1864 ; 

 transmitting their publications. 



Royal Horticultural Society, London, Oct. 26th, 1864; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Oct. 4th, 1864; acknowledging the 

 receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



March 2lst. — Imperial Leopold Carolus Academy, Dresden, Nov. 28th, 

 1864; 



Geological Survey of India, Calcutta, July 11th, 1864 ; severally transmit- 

 ting their publications. 



The Essex Institute, Salem, Mass., Feb. 25th, 1865, acknowledging the re- 

 ceipt of the Proceedings. 



Society of Natural Sciences of Wurtemburg, Nov. 15th, 1864, acknowledg- 

 ing the receipt of the Proceedings and requesting a supply of deficiencies. 



Office of the Geological Survey of Sweden, Stockholm, Nov. 1st, 1 864, trans- 

 mitting donations to the Library and desiring exchange. 



Natural History Society, Nurmberg, June 15th, 1864, transmitting dona- 

 tions to the Library. 



April 4/A.— Smithsonian Institution, March 27th, 1865, accompanying a 

 donation to the Museum. 



April 11/^.— Baron Von Osten-Sacken, New York, March 2l8t, 1865, trans- 

 mitting publications of the Entomological Society of St. Petersburg, and de- 

 siring exchange. 




288 CORRESPONDENCE. 



Theo. Gill, Washington, April 8th, 1865, desiring to withdraw his note of 

 Feb. 21st. 



May 9th. — Royal Society, Edinburg, Jan. 4th, 1865 ; 



Royal Library, Munich, Sept. 27th, 1864; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, &c., Bruxelles, Sept. 15th, and Oct. 1st, 1864; 



Imperial Geological Society, Vienna, Sept. 26th, 1864 ; severally acknowledg- 

 ing the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



The Natural History Society, Riga, Dec. 1864, transmitting a donation to 

 the Library. 



Royal Society of Sciences, Gottingen, Feb., 1865; 



Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences, Nov. 30th, 1864 ; severally transmit- 

 ting their publications and acknowledging the receipt of those of the Acade- 

 my. 



3Iay 16(h. — Linnean Society, Bordeaux, Jan. 2d, 1865, accompanying dona- 

 tion. 



Royal Academy, Belgium, Sept. 1863; 



Royal Academy, Lisbon, March 22d, 1865 ; 



Smithsonian Institution, Oct. 11th, and July 18th, 1864, severally ac- 

 knowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Chas. Stoddart, Boston, May 11th, 1865, acknowledging his election as cor- 

 respondent. 



May 23d. — Imperial Academy of Sciences of Vienna, Feb. 1st, 1865, trans- 

 mitting a donation to the Library. 



The Lyceum of Natural History, New York, May 15th, 1865, acknowledging 

 the receipt of the Proceedings of the Academy. 



June I3th. — Philosophical and Literary Society of Leeds, May 26th, 1865, 

 acknowledging receipt of deficiencies in the Academy's publications. 



June 20th. — W. T, Roepper, Bethlehem, Pa., June 13th, 1865, acknowledg- 

 ing his election as correspondent. 



Smithsonian Institution, Dec. 12th, 1864; 



German Geological Society, Berlin, Nov. 8th, 1864; 



Imperial Society of Naturalists, Moscow, Feb. 26th, 1865; 



Natural History Society, Augsburg, Oct. 10th, 1864; acknowledging the 

 receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Society of Physics and Natural History, Geneva, Feb. 1st, 1865 ; 



Natural History Society, Gorliiz, Feb. 28th, 1865; transmitting their publi- 

 cations and acknowledging the receipt of those of the Academy. 



Natural History Society, Briinn, Dec. 12tb, 1865, transmitting its publica- 

 tions and desiring exchange. 



Natural History Society, Montreal, June 15th, 1865, asking a supply of de- 

 ficiencies. 



July \8th. — Prof. Jos. Henry, July 10th, accompanying donations to the 

 Herbarium. 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Madrid, acknowledging the receipt of the Pro- 

 ceedings. 



Natural History Society, Hannover, accompanying their publications. 



August 1st. — British Museum, London, acknowledging the receipt of the 

 Proceedings of the Academy. 



August loth. — Albany Institute, acknowledging the receipt of the Proceed- 

 ings. 



September o^A— Messrs. Meek and "Worthen, Aug. 29th, 1865, in regard to 

 their paper adopted at the last business meeting of the Academy. 



September I2th. — Linnean Society, Lyons, Oct. 20th, 1864, and June 15th, 

 1865; 



Catholic University, Louvain, Jan. 15th, 1865; 



Asiatic Society of Bengal, March 23d, 1865 ; 




CORRESPONDENCE. 289 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Madrid, April 28th, and May 3d, 1865; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, &c., Lyons, Oct. SOth, 1864; severally ac- 

 companying donations to the Library. 



Museum of Bergen, Norway, April 24th, 1865, acknowledging receipt gf the 

 Proceedings. 



Natural History Society of Prussian Rheinlands and Westphalia, March 3d, 

 1865, acknowledging the receipt of the Proceedings and Journal. 



Microscopical Society, London, May 11th, 1865, in reply to a letter con- 

 cerning deficiencies and acknowledging receipt of Proceedings. 



Royal Horticultural Society of South Kensington, May 25th, 1865, in reply 

 to a letter concerning deficiencies and accompanying donation to Library. 



Public Museum of Buenos Ayres ; 



Natural History Society, Hannover, Feb. 15th, 1865 ; 



Council of Improvement annexed to the Royal Technicological Institute of 

 Palermo, dated July 29th, 1865, accompanying donations to the Library and 

 asking exchange. 



October "id. — Lyceum of Natural History, New York, Sept. 11th, 1865, ac- 

 knowledging the receipt of the Proceedings of the Academy. 



October 11th.— T)v. G. Hartlaub, Bremen, Sept. 21st, 1865 ; 



India Ofifice Library, Westminister, Sept. 27th, 1865 ; each asking supply of 

 deficiencies. 



October 24<A. — Albany Institute, Oct. 16th, acknowledging the receipt of 

 the Proceedings. 



Secretaries of the House of Bishops and of the House of Clerical and Lay 

 Deputies of the Protestant Episcopal Convention, Oct. 19th and 20th, ac- 

 knowledging the invitation to visit the Museum of the Academy and return- 

 ing thanks therefor. 



November lith. — Swiss Society for the General Natural Sciences of Berne ; 



Natural History Society of Berne, Dec. 6th, 1864 ; acknowledging receipt of 

 Proceedings. 



Royal Asiatic Society, June 19th, 1865 ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, &c., Padua, June 15th, 1865; acknowledging 

 receipt of Proceedings and accompanying donations to the Library. 



Society of Natural Sciences in Wurtemberg, Stuttgard, June 1st, 1865, ac- 

 knowledging receipt of Proceedings, asking supply of deficiencies and ac- 

 companying donation to Library. 



Natural History Society, Emden, Aug. 1st, 1865, accompanying donations 

 to the Library. 



Natural History Society, Danzig, May 8th, 1865, accompanying donation to 

 Library. 



Lyceum of Natural History of New York, Oct. 23d, 1865, acknowledging 

 receipt of the Proceedings. 



Pecember 5th. — Dr. Robert Bridges, declining re-election to the office of 

 President of the Academy. 



December I9(h — Prof. Leo Lesquereux, Nov. 25, 1865, acknowledging his 

 election as correspondent. 



Imperiale Institute of France, Nov. 6th, 1865; 



Royal Academy of Sciences of Madrid, acknowledging receipt of Proceed- 

 ings.' 




DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM 



1B65. 



Anderson, Wm. Sept. I2(h. Fossil vertebrae of a whale. York River, Va,. 



Burtt, Dr. J. L. Jul?/ 11/7;. Two Mercenaria, from the Miocene, 390 feet from 

 the surface at Fort Monroe. 



Canby, W. M. Sept. 5th. Two fishes from Isle of Shoals, N. H. 



Chicago Academy of Sciences. Feb. lith. Three species of Mammals, 10 

 species of Birds, and about 50 species of Birds' Eggs. 



Cope, E. D. June20th. Two species of Myriapoda. July llth. Thirty speci- 

 mens of 1 species of Batrachia, 319 specimens, VO species of Fishes ; from 

 Western Pennsylvania, Michigan and Europe. 



Corse, Dr. Jas. M. Dec. I9th. Skeleton of the Codfish, Alligator and Dog. 

 Mounted Bull-frog. 



Da Costa, J. Feb. 14th. Tooth of Oxyrhina. Mullica Hill, N. J. 



Du Bois, A. March 1th. Three specimens of Auriferous Pyrites, 1 Aurifer- 

 ous Quartz, Calcedony, Fossil Wood and Fossil Coral. From South Park, 

 Colorado. 



Garnett, Mr., U. S. Is. June 6ih. Male flowers of a species of Palm from 

 South America, through Dr. Greenbank. 



Glover, Ridgway. Oct. 3d. Fossil Trionyx Fragment. Camden Co., N. J. 



Guillou, C. Mr. May 23d. Four Viviparous Fishes from California, and a speci- 

 men of Stalactical Lava, from a Lava cave of Sandwich Isles. 



Hamlin, Dr. A. C. Dec. I9th. Large mass of Sulphuret of Copper. From 

 Ducktown Mines, Tenn. 



Hoopes, B. A. Feb. lAih. Native Copper, Lake Superior. 



Klett, Frederick. Oct. lOth. Pyrhotine from Vermont. Six specimens of 

 oolitic phosphates of lime and alumina, and a fossil coral from the Island 

 ofNavassa. Some human bones and stone axes from a guano deposit 

 at the depth of eight inches. From the Island of Orchilla, W. I. 



Lea, Isaac. Feb. 21st. Phlogopite, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y., do. Jefferson 

 Co., N. Y. Steatite, Chester Co., Pa. Octohedral Iron, Chester Co., Pa. 

 Staurotide, Del. Co., Pa. March 14:th. Marmolite, 2 Lithomarge, Arra- 

 gonite, Actinolite, Melanite, Carbonate of Lime, Blue Quartz and Cubi- 

 cal Pyrites from Chester Co., Pa. Anthracite from Calcareous Sand- 

 rock, Little Falls, N. Y. 3fai/ IGth. Twenty-one species of FreSh Water 

 Shells, types. May 23d. Specimens of Mica from Delaware Co., and 

 Quartz and Clinochlore from Chester Co. N'ov. lith. Cyanite and As- 

 bestus with Actinolite from Chester Co., Necronite from Newcastle, Del. 

 Nov. 2lst. Lymnfea Pingellii, L. Groenlandica, L. Apicana from Green- 

 land and St. Lawrence River. 



Leidy, Dr. Jos. Sept. I9th. Lampugus punctulatus. Nov. 21st. Lymnsea 

 oleacea, L. lanceata, L. catascopium, from Lake Superior. 



Lesley, J. P. Nov. 14/A. A collection of Devonian Fossils. From Gasp6 

 Bay at the mouth of the St. Lawrence River. 



Letterman, Dr. Jona. Feb. lith. Tooth of Mastodon. 



Oman, Benj. Sept. \2th. Specimens of Hyalea from Newport, R. I. 



Mactier, Wm. L. Sept. 12th. Five specimens of fossils from the limestone 

 formation near the Ottowa River, 20 miles from Montreal, Ca. 



Manigault, Gabriel E. June 20th. Finely mounted skeleton of a Monkey of 

 South America, and an Owl. 



Miles, Prof. Manly. June 20th. Four species of Myriapoda. 



Newton, Mr. April llth. Large Spider from Brazil. 



Norris, Thaddeus. Oct. 24th. Leiostomus obliquus, Caranx defensor and 

 Labrax pallidus. From Newport, R. I. 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 291 



Picking, Lieut. H. F. Aug. \hth. Loligo. 



Powel, S. May \Qtli. Foraminiferous Sand, Newport, R. I. 



Reptiles and Insects, a collection of, June Qth. 



Ridgeway, Dr. T. E. July lllh. Fruit, leaves and -woods of Sequoia gigan- 

 tea, California. 



Romanowsky, H. June I3th. Thirty-six species of Jurassic, Cretaceous, De- 

 vonian and Silurian Fossils from Russia. 



Ruschenberger, Dr. W. S. W. June I3lh. Specimens of Vellela from the 

 Pacific Ocean. 



Semple, Dr. Sept. I9th. Specimen of Sombrero Guano. Chiton from Som- 

 brero. 



Scattergood, Geo. J. 3Iay I6th. Vertebrae of Hyposaurus Rogersii from 

 White Horse, Camden Co., N. J. 



Sheafer, P. W. Feb. liih. Anthracite Coal, Sullivan Co., Pa. 



Shells, four hundred species from Mazatlan and Cape St. Lucas. Purchased 

 by the Academy. 



Slack, Dr. J. H. Nov. 2lst. Cardium Spillmani from Monmouth Co., N. J. 



Smithsonian Institution. May 9th. A collection of marine shells of about 

 800 species, of which 300 are new to the Museum of the Academy, 

 principally from the collection of Wilkes' Exploring Expedition. May 23d. 

 A collection of Fossils from the Marl of New Jersey, obtained by F. B. 

 Meek. A collection of Fossils, of the U. S. Exploring Expedition, from 

 Oregon and Australia, types of Dana's Geology of the U. S. Exploring 

 Expedition. A collection of 93 species of fossils from the Upper Mis- 

 souri, collected by Lieut. Warren and Dr. Hayden. June 20th. Fifteen 

 species of Myriapoda. 



Souder, Edward A. Oct. 3d. Cryolite from Ivigtut, Arksuk Fiord, Green- 

 land. 



Stellwagen, H. S. Sept. 5th. Sculptured fragment of marble from Baalbec. 



Tarbe, Prosper. 3Iay 23d. A small collection of tertiary fossils from Au- 

 teuil, France. 



Thayer, Jas. G. Sept. 12th. Large slab of stone with fossil plant. 



Thomson, J. H. Bee. 19th. Thirty-two species of terrestrial shells from 

 Tahiti. 



Trautwine, J. C. Jan. 3d. Earthy Yivianite. Allentown, N. J. 



Tryon, Geo. W. May I6th. Nineteen species of fresh water shells, types. 

 Sixty-six species of land and marine shells new to the collection. Oct. 3d. 

 Sixty-five species of land and fresh water shells. Nov. 21st. Nine- 

 teen species of land and fresh water shells, principally from Syria and 

 Algiers. Two Serpents from Hilton Head. Sept. 12th. 



Vaux, Wm. S. Nov. 21st. Fine large specimen of Rutile from Lancaster 

 Co., Pa. Dec. 5th. A collection of fossils from Oriskany Sandstone of 

 Muncy Hills, Pa. Skeleton of a small species of Ichthyosaurus, a verte- 

 bra of a large species of Ichthyosaurus, series of five vertebrse of do., 

 three bones of do., large coprolite, vertebra of Plesiosaurus. Jaws of 

 an Ichthyosaurus, dorsal spine 6f Hybodus reticulatus, two fishes, a Nau- 

 tilus and a fragment of fossil wood. From the Lias of England. A fossil 

 shell from Syria. 



Vinal, W. J. Oct. 3d. Sal Ammoniac on anthracite from Mauch-chunk. 

 . Ware, Maj. J. B. July 11th. Two specimens of Auriferous Pyrites. Colora- 

 do Territory. 



Warner, John. Jan. 3d. Two hundred species of alpine plants from the 

 vicinity of Zermatt, Switzerland. 



Wilcocks, Dr. Alex. June 20th. Skeleton of a Hawk. Deposited. 



Wilson, Rathmell. 3fay 9tli. A small collection of woods and geological 

 specimens. Presented by Mr. Rathmell Wilson, Executor of the Estate 

 of Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Wood, Dr. H. C. June 20th. Five species of Myriapoda. 



Woolman, Jas. May 16th. Fire Clay from Plainville. 




DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 

 1865. 



JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



DENMARK. 



Christiania. Forhandlingar i Videnskabs — Selskabet. Aar., 1863. 

 Copenhagen. Videnskabilge Meddelelser fr.i den naturhistoriske Forening i 

 Kjobenhavn. 1863. From the Society. 



HOLLAND. 



Stockholm. Ofversigt af K. Yetenskaps Akademiens Forhandlingar. Tjngonde 



Argangen. 1863, No3. I — 10. 1864. From the Society. 

 Altenburg. Mittheilungen aus dem Osterlande. 16 Band, 4e3 Heft. 1864. 



From the Society. 

 Berlin. Zeitschrift fiir die Gesammten Naturwissenschaften. Jahrg., 1863. 

 Band 22, 1863. From the Society. 

 Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte. 29 Jahrg., 6es Heft to 31 Jahrg., 2es Heft. 



From the Editor. 

 Wochenschrift des Vereines zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues. Nos. 30, 



1864, to 30, 1865. From the Society. 

 Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft. 16 Band, 3 and 4 



Heftes; 17 Band, les Heft. From the Society. 

 Berliner Entomologischer Zeitschrift. 8er Jahrg., 3es and 4e3 Heftes, 9er 



Jahrg. Yierteljahresheft. From the Berlin Entonaological Society. 

 Physikalische und Mathematische Abhandlungen der K. Akademie der 



Wissenschaften. Aus dem Jahre., 1863. From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte, of the same. From 48 Band, 5 Heft, to 50 Band, 2 Heft. 



From the Society. 

 Verzeichniss der Abhandlungen Gelehrter Gesellschaft, &c., in der 

 Bibliothek der K. P. Akademie der Wissenschaften. 1864. From the 

 Society. 

 Monatsberichte der K. P. Akad. der Wissen. 1864. From the Society. 

 Bonn. Verhandlungen des Naturhistorische Yereines der Preus. Rheinlands 



und Westphalens. 21er Jahrg., 2e3 Heft. From the Society. 

 Bremen. YHI. Jahres-Bericht des Instituts fiir Schwedische Heil-Gym- 



nastik in Bremen. 1865. From the Director. 

 Danzig. Schriften der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. Neue Folge. len 



Bf nd, les and 2e3 Heftes. From the Society. 

 Darmstact. Notizblatt des Yereins fiir Erdkunde und verwandte Wissen- 

 schaften. m. Folge, III. Heft. 1864. From the Society. 

 Dresden. Novorum Actorum Academiae Caesareae Leopoldino-Carolinae 

 Germanicse Naturae Curiosorum. Tome 31. From the Soeiety. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 293 



Emden. Neunundvierzigster und fiinfzigster Jahresberichtes der Naturfor- 



schenden Gesellschaft. 1863. From the Society. 

 Erlangen. Jabresbericht iiber die FortscLritte in der Biologie itn Jahre?. 



1843 — 1853. Herausg. von Dr. Canstatt und Dr. Eisenmann. Four Vols. 



1844 — 1853. From the Library Fund. 

 Frankfurt-am-main. Der Zoologische Garten. 5er Jahrg., Nos. 7 — 12; 6er 



Jahrg., Nos. 1 — 6. 1865. From the Editors 

 Freiburg. Berichte iiber die Verhandlungcn der Naturforschenden Gesell- 

 schaft zu Freiburg. Band, III. ; Heft, II. 1864. From the Society. 

 Giessen. Unlersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der 4'hiere. 



9 Band, 5es Heft. From the Library Fund. 

 Gottingen. Nachrichten von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und der 



Georg-Augusts-Universitiit aus dem Jahre 1864. From the Society. 

 Gorlitz. Abhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. 12er Band. 



From the Society. 

 Halle. Abhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. 9en Bandes, les 



Heft. From the Society. 

 Hannover. Yierzehnter Jabresbericht der Naturhistorischen Gesellschaft. 



1865. From the Society. 

 Leipzig. Jahrbuch fiir wissenschaftliche Botanik, 4er Band, 2es Heft. 



From the Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 

 Munich. Sitzungsberichte der K. B. Akaderaie der "Wissenschaften. 1863, 



IL, Heft, II., to 1864, IL, Heft, II. From the Society. 

 Annalen der K. Sternwarte. I3er Band, and 4er Supplement band. 1863 — 



64. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen der Philos.-Philol. Class der K. B. Akademie der Wissen- 

 schaften. lOen Band, les Abth. From the Society. 

 Neubrandenburg. Archiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in 



Meklenburg. 18 Jahrg. From the Society. 

 Nurnberg. Abhandlungen der Naturhistorischen Gesellschaft zu Niirnberg, 



III. Band, Halfte. 1864. From the Society. 

 Offenbach-am-Main. Fiinfter Bericht des Offenbacher Vereius fur Naturkunde. 



1864. From the Society. 

 Regensburg. Abhandlungen des Zoologisch-Mineralogischen Vereines in 



Regensburg. Neuntes Heft. 1864. From the Society. 

 Correspondenz-Blatt of the same. 28 Jahrg. From the Society. 

 Stettin. Entomologische Zeitung. 1864. 25er Jahrg. From the Ento- 

 mological Society of Stettin. 

 Amtlicher Bericht iiber die 38te Versaramlung Deutscher Naturforscher 



und Arzte. Sept., 1863. From the Society. 

 Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geolo^ie und Palasontologie. 



Jahrg., 1864, 6es and 7es Heft. From the Editors 

 Wiirttembergische Naturwissenschaftliche Jahreshefte. 19 er Jahrg., 2es 



und 3es Heft; 20er Jahrg., les, 2es, and 3es Heft. 21 Jahrg., les 



Heft. 1863—64—65. From the Editors. 

 Vienna. Jahrbuch der K. K. Geologiscben Reichsanstalt. 1864. 14 Band, 



No. 3, to 15 Band, No. 2. From the Society. 

 Denkschriften der K. Akaderaie der Wissenschaften. Math-Naturw. 



Classe. 23er Band. From the Society. 

 Wiener Entomologische Monatschrift. Band VIII. From the Editors. 

 Verhandlungen der K. K. Zoologisch-botanischen Gesellschaft. XIV. 



Band. 1864. From the Society. 

 Wiirzburg. Wiirzburger Naturwissenschaftliche Zeitschrift. Vierter Band, 



II., to 5er Band, 4es Heft. 1864. From the Physikalische Medicinischen 



Gesellschaft. 




294 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



8WITZERLAND. 



Basel. Verhandlangen der Naturforschendea Gesellschaft. 4er Theil, les 



Heft. From the Society. 

 Geneva, Bibliotheque Universelle. Archives des Sciences Physiques et 



Naturelles. Kouvelle Periode. Tome 21, No. 83, to Tome 24, No. 93. 



Also Tome 9, No. 35 ; Tome lOme, Nos. 38—40 ; Tome lime, Nos. 41— 



44; Tome 16me, No. 61. From the Editors. 

 Memoires de la Societe de Physique et D'Histoire Naturelle. Tome 17, 



2d Partie. From the Society, 

 Lausanne. Bulletin de la Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Tome 



VIII., Bulletins 51 and 52. From the Society. 

 Neuchatel. Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences Naturelles. Tome 6me, 3me 



Cahier. 



RUSSIA. 



St. Peterpburtr- Bulletin de L'Academie Imperiale des Sciences. Tome 5, 

 No. 6, to Tome 7, No. 2. From the Academy. 

 Memoirs of the Same. Tome 5, No. 2, to Tome 6, No. 12. From the 



Academy. 

 Horae Societatis Entomologies Rossicae. Fasc. Primus et secundus. 



1863. From the Society. 



Moscow. Bulletin de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou. 1863 

 and 1864. From the Society. 



BELGIUM. 



Bruxelles. Memoires Couronnes et autres Memoires publie par L'Academie 

 Royale des Sciences, &c., de Belgique. Collection in 8vo. Tome 15, 

 4to, Tome 31. From the Society. 

 Memoires of the Same. Tjme 34. From the Society. 

 Bulletin of the Same. Tomes 15 — 17. From the Society. 

 Annuaire of the Same. 30me Annep. From the Society. 

 Louvain. Annuaire de I'Universite Catholique de Louvain. Annee Bissextile. 



1864. 28me Annee. From the University. 

 Sixteen Religious Theses. From the Same. 



FRANCE. 



Angers. Memoires de la Soci^t6 Academique de Maine et Loire. 3me to 6me 



Volume. From ihe Society. 

 Bordeaux. Mc-moires de la Societe des Sciences physiques et naturelles. 

 Tome III., Ter Cahier. 1864. From the Society. 

 Acles de I'Academie Imp. des Sciences, &c. 3e Serie, 1864. ler to 4me. 



Trimestres. From the Society. 

 Actes de la Societe Linneenne. Tome 24, le Livr, to Tome 25, 3me Livr. 

 From the Society.* 

 Caen. Bulletin de la Societe Linneenne de Normandie. 9me Vol. From 



the Society. 

 Cherbourg. Memoires de la Societe Imperiale des Sciences Naturelles. Tome 



10. From the Society. 

 Dijon. Memoires de I'Academie Imp6riale des Sciences, Arts et Belles- 



Lettres. Annee, 1863. From the Society. 

 Lyon. Annales de la Societe Linneenne. Annee 1863 — 1864. Nouvelle 

 Serie. Tome lOme and lime. From the Society. 

 Annales de la Societe des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles. 3me Serie, 



Tome 7. From the Society. 

 Memoires de L'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, &c. Classe des Sciences, 



Tome 13me, Classe des Lettres. Tome lime. From the Society. 

 Bulletin of the Meetings of the same. 1865. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 2$'5 



Montpellier. Acad6mie des Sciences et Lettres. Mdmoires de la Section des 



Sciences. Tome III., FasG. 1 — 3. From the Society. 

 Paris. Annales des Sciences Naturelles. From Tome II., Zoology, No. 5, and 



Tome 1, Botany, No. G, to Zoology, Tome 4, No. 2, and Botany, Tome 



III., No. 5. From the Library Fund. 

 Revue et magasin de Zoologie. Recueil mensuel par M. F. E. Guerin- 



Meneville. 1864, No. 10, to 18G5, No. 10. From the Editors. 

 Bulletin mensuel de la Societe Imperiale Zoologique d'Acclimatation. 2me 



Series. Tome ler, No. 10, Oct. 1864, to Tome II., No. 1. From the 



Society. 

 Annales des Mines. 6me Serie, vol. v. 3e Livr. de 1864, to vol. vii. Livr. 



2. From the Minister of Public Works, France. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. Tome IV., Nos. 3 and 4. 3me Serie. Tome 



v., Nos. 1 to 3. From the Editors. 

 Comptes Rendus des Seances et M^moires delaSoci^t^ de Biologie. Tome 



5me de la 3me Serie. 1864. From the Society. 

 Congres Scienlifique de France. 28me Session, Tomes Ime to 5me. From 



Mons. Ghas. Des Moulins. 

 Journal de I'Anatomie et de la physiologic, No. 6. From the Library 



Fund. 

 Annales de la Society Entomologique de France. 4me Serie, Tome 4me. 



From the Society. 



ITALY. 



Bologna. Rendiconto delle Sessioni dell'Academia delle Scienze dell'Istituto 



di Bologna. 1863 — 64. From the Society. 

 Memoirs of the same. Serie 11. , Tomo 3 and Tomo 4, Fasc. 1. From the 



Academy. 

 Palermo. Giornale d6 Scienze Naturali et Economiche publicato per cura del 



consiglio di perfezionamento annesso al R. Istituto Technico di Palermo. 



Vol. i., Fasc. 1 and 2. From the. Institute. 

 Giornale del Reale Instituto D'lncoraggiamento di Agricultnra, Arti e 



Manifattura in Sicilia. Terza Serie, Anno 1, Nos. 1 — 6. 1863. From 



the Society. 

 Padova. Revista Periodica dei Lavori della I. R. Academia di Scienze, &c., 



21—26. 1862—65. From the Society. 



SPAIN. 



Madrid. Memorias de la R. Academia de Ciencias exactas fisicas y naturales. 

 Tomes II. III. IV. Ciencias fisicas, Tomo 1, part 3, T. 3, parte 1 ; Ci- 

 encias exactas, Tomo 1, parte 2, Tomo 2, parts 1 and 2. 1863 — 64. 

 From the Society. 

 Resumen de las Actas, of the same. 1863. From the Society. 



GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 



Dublin. The transactions of the Royal Irish Academy. Vol.24. Polite Lit- 

 erature, part 1; Science part 3; Antiquities, parts 1 and 2, 1864. 

 From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the same. Vol. 8, parts 1 — T, 1864. From the Society. 

 Journal of the Royal Dublin Society. Nos. 32 and 33. From the Society. 

 Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. 10, part 2. From the Society. 

 Edinburgh. Proceedings of the Royal Society. Session 1863—64. Vol. 5, No. 

 62. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. 22, part 3. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Botanical Society. Vol. 8, part 2. From the Society. 

 Leeds. Report of the Proceedings of the Geological and Polytechnic Society 

 of the West Riding of Yorkshire, 1863—4. From the Society. 

 Forty-fourth Report of the Council of the Leeds Philosophical and Lit- 

 erary Society. 1863—4. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Liverpool. Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society, No. 18. 



From the Society. 

 London. The Athenseum Journal of English and Foreign Literature, Science, 

 &c. Parts 442 to 444. From the Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 

 The Reader. Vol. 4, No. 104. From the Editors. 

 Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society. New Series, vol. 1, parts 1 and 2, 



1864. From the' Society. 



The Ibis. Vols. 1 — 6, ISS's — 64. From the Library Fund. 



Proceedings of the Royal Horticultural Society. Vol. 4, No. 8, to vol. 5, 



No. 7. From the Society. 

 The Journal of the Society of Arts and of the Institutions in Union. Vol. 



12, 1864. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Institutions of Great Britain. Vol. 4, part 4, 



Nos. 39, 40. From the Society. 

 Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. 20, part 4, vol. 21, part 



1. List of members. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. Vol. 13, Nos. 68 and 69. 



From the Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. 154, parts I and 2. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Entomological Society. Vol. 2, parts 2, 3 and 4, vol. 



3, part 1. From the Society. 

 Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Nos. 83 — 87. From the Li- 

 brary Fund. 

 London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. Nos. 190 — 195. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Notes and Queries. Parts 34 — 38. From the Editors. 

 The Journal of the Chemical Society. New Series, from Oct. 1864 to Jun« 



1865. From the Society. 



Quarterly Journal of the Microscopical Society. New Series, Nos. 17 and 



18. From the Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 

 The Natural History Review. Vol. 2. From the Editors. 

 Proceedings of the Scientific Meetings of the Zoological Society, for the 



year 1864, parts 1, 2 and 3. From the Socie'y. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. 5, part 4. From the Society. 

 Trubncr's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 1 to 8. From 



the Publishers. 



UNITED STATES. 



Albany. Transactions of the Albany Institute. Vol. 4, 1858 — 64. From the 

 Institute. 

 Transactions of the Society for the Promotion of Useful Arts. Vol. 4, 

 part 2, 1819. From the same. 

 Boston. Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. 9, pp. 



305 to end of volume, and vol. 10, pp. 1 — 16. From the Society. 

 Cambridge. Annual Report of the Trustees of the Museum of Comparative Zo- 

 ology for 1864 ; also for 1862. From the Trustees. 

 Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. 6, pp. 

 341-364. From the Academy. 

 Philadelphia. The Dental Cosmos. New Series, vol. 6, No. 6, to vol. 7, No. 5. 

 From the Editors. 

 The American Journal of the Medical Sciences. From Nos. 97 to 100. 



From the Editor. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Vol. 7, Nos. 1 to 12. From the Editor. 

 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 1865. Nos. 1 — 4. 

 Journal of the Franklin Institute. Vols. 78 and 79, Nos. 468 to 475. From 



the Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 

 Memoirs of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Vol. 1, 1864. From 

 the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 297 



American Journal of Concbology. Vol. 1, parts 1 — 4. From the Execu- 

 tors of the late Dr. Wilson. 



Proceediogs of the Entomological Society of Philadelphia. Vols. 2, Sand 

 4, and vol. 5, No. 1. From the Library Fund. 



The Practical Entomologist. Vol. 1, No. 1. From the Entomological 

 Society. 



Proceedings of the American Phil. Soc. Vol. 9, No. 72, vol. 10, No. 73. 

 From the Society. 



Transactions of the same. Vol. 13, part 1. From the Society. 



American Journal of Pharmacy. Vol. 37, Nos. 2 to 6. From the Editor.' 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. Vols. 39 and 40. 



From the Editor. 

 New York. The New York Medical Journal. Nos. 1 — 4 and Nos. 6 — 9. From 

 the Editors. 



Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History. Vol. 8, Nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5. 

 From the Society. 



Proceedings of the American Geographical and Statistical Society. Pp. 

 117—174. From the Society, 

 Salem. Proceedings of the Essex Institute. Vol. 4, Oct., Nov. and Dec, 1864^ 

 No. 4, vol. 2, pages 353 — 438, vol. 3. Vol. 4, No. 5, Act of Incorpora- 

 tion, &c. From the Society. 



Journal of the Essex Co. Natural History Society, No. 3. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 San Francisco. The San Francisco Medical Press. Vol. 6, No. 4, 1865. From 

 the Editors. 



Proceedings of the California Academy of Natural Sciences. Vol. 3, pp. 

 97 to 208. From the Society. 



California Farmer for 1865. From the Editors. 

 Washington. Report of the National Academy of Sciences for the year 1863. 



From Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Worcester, Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society, Oct. 21, 1864, 

 April, 1865. From the Society. 



CANADA. 



Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. New Series, Vol. 2, Nos 

 1 to 4. From the Natural History Society of Montreal. 



Quebec. Transactions of the Literary and Historical Society of Quebec. Ses- 

 sion 1864 — 65, New Series, part 3. From the Society. 



Toronto. Journal of the Board of Arts and Manufactures of Upper Canada. 

 Vol. 5, Nos. 1, 2. From the Editor. 

 The Canadian Journal of Industry, Science and Art. New Series, Nos. 55 

 to 59. From the Editors. 



NOVA SCOTIA. 



Halifax. Proceedings and Transactions of the Nova Scotia Institute of Natural 



Sciences. Vol. 2, part 3. From the Society. 



SOUTH AMERICA. 



Buenos Aires. Anales del Museo Publico de Buenos Aires. Entrega Primera, 

 1864. From the Director. 



ASIA. 



Batavia. Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-Landen Volkenkunde, uitgegeven 

 door het Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. 

 Deelen 11 and 12. From the Society. 

 Verhandelingen van het Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Weten- 

 schappen. Deel 29. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



OTHER SCIENTIFIC ^VORKS. 



Agassiz, Alex. Embryology of the Star Fish. From the Author. 



Seaside Studies in Natural History. By Elizabeth C. Agassiz snd Alex. 

 Agassiz. Marine Animals of the Massachusetts Bay. Radiates. 1865. 

 From the Authors. 

 Andrew, Wm. Constitution of Nature. Milwaukee, 1864. From the Author, 

 Annual Report of the Geological Surrey of India, 1863 — 64. Calcutta, 

 1864. From the Survey. 

 Memoirs of the Same. Vol. III., Part 2, and Vol. IV., Part 2. Calcutta, 

 1864. From the Surrey. 

 Armored Vessels, Seven Plates of. From the Navy Department. 

 Baird, S. F. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Review of American 

 Birds in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. Part 1. North 

 and Middle America. From the Author. 

 Barrande, J. Defense des Colonies, III. Prague, 1865. From the Author. 

 Bentham, G. Genera Pla'ntarum ad exemplaria imprimis herbariis kewensibus 

 servata definita. Vol. Primi, Pars II. Sistens Dicotyledonum Poly- 

 petalarum ordines XI. London, 1865. From the Library Fund. 

 Bertolini, Ant. Amcenitates Italicae. Bonanice, 1819. From Dr. C. Percy 



La Roche. 

 Binney, W. G. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collection. 174. Bibliography 

 of North American Conchology previous to the year 1860. Part 11. 

 1864. From the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Birnbaum, Dr. K. F. J. Untersuchungea iiber den Bau der Eihaute bei 



SJiugethieren. Berlin, 1863. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Bleeker, M. P. Atlas Ichthyologique des Indes Orientales Neederlandaises. 

 Livres 1 — 17. Amsterdam, 1864 — 75. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual 

 conditions. 

 Bohn, H. G. Catalogue of Books. Vol. I., 8vo., London, 1858. From the 



Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Boot, Francis. Illustrations of the Genus Carex. 3 Vols. Folio. London, 



1858. From the Library Fund. 

 Bonrguignat, M. J. R. Maiacologie de L'Algerie. 5me Ease. Paris, 1864. 

 From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Mollusques nouveaux, litigieux ou peu connus. ler — 4me Fasc. Paris, 

 1803 — 64. From the late Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Boivin, Am. Description de Cinq especes nouvelles du Genre Conus. Paris, 



1864. From the Author. 

 Brady, Geo. S. Reports of deep sea dredging on the coasts of Northumber- 

 land and Durham. From the Author. 

 Bruent, J. C. Manuel du Libraire et de I'Amateur de Livres. 5 Vols., and 



Vol VI., No. 1, 8vo. Paris, 1SC4. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Bnchenau, Dr. F. Ueber Juncus pygmaeus Rich, und Juncus fascicalatus 

 Schousbee. 8vo. Tract. From the Author. 



Ueber die Sprossverhjiltuisse von Glaux maritima. From the Author. 

 Buhl, Dr. L. Ueber die Stellung und Bedeutung der Pathologischen Anatomic. 



Miinchen, 1863. From the Author. 

 Cabanis, Dr. J. Museum Heineanum. 4 Theil. Halberstadt, 1863. From 



the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Caligny, Marquis Anatole de. Notice bistorique et critique sur les machines a 



compression d'air du Mont-Cenis. Turin, 1860. From the Author. 

 Castilla, Rey D. Alfonso X de. Libros del Saber de Astronomia del. Tome III. 



Madrid, 1864. From the Royal Academy of Madrid. 

 Catalogue of the American Philosophical Society Library. Part 1. Philadel- 

 phia, 1863. From the Society. 

 Claparede, Dr. A. R. E. Beobachtungen iiber Anatomie nnd Entwicklungs- 

 geschichte wirbelloser Thiere an der Kiiste von Normandie. Leipzig, 

 1863. From the Executors of Dr Wilson. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 299 



Clans, Dr. C. Die frei lebenden Copepoden. Leipzig. From tlie Executors 



of Dr. Wilson. 

 Oresson, E. T. Oa the Hjmenoptera of Cuba. January, 1865. From the 



Author. 

 On the Hymenoptera of Colorado Territory. Part 1. Philadelphia, 1865. 



From the Author. 

 Dalyell, Sir John Graham. Rare and Remarkable Animals of Scotland. 2 



Vols., 4to. London, 1857. From the Library Fund. 

 Davis, Jos. B. Crania Britannica, Decade VI. London, 1865. From the 



Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 De CandoUe. Prodromus Systematis Naturalis regni vegetabilis. Pars 16. 



Parisiis, 1864. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Denny, H. Observations on the Distribution of the Extinct Bear of Great 



Britain. From the Author. 

 Des Moulins, Chas. Notes sur le Scirpus Duvali, Hopp. de Vayres (Gironde). 



From the Author. 

 Le Bassin H/drographique du Couzeau. Bordeaux, 1864. From the 



Author. 

 DoUen, W. Die Zeitbestimmung vermittelst des tragbaren Durchgangsinstru- 



ments im Verticale des Polarsterns. St. Petersburg, 1863. From the 



Author. 

 Dozy, F. Bryologia Javanica seu descriptio Muscorum, &c. Auctoribus F. 



Dozy et J. M. Molkenbcer. Fasc. 41 — 44. Lugduni-Batavorum, 1863. 



From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Dubois, Ch. F. Oiseaux de L'Europe. 189 and 190 Livraisons. Bruxelles, 



1864. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Dumont, A. H. Memoire sur la Constitution Geologique de la Province de 



Li^ge. Bruxelles, 1832. From John Campbell. 

 Danker, Dr. W. Palaeontographica. Beitriige zur Naturgeschichte der Vor- 



welt. Neunter Band, 7e Lief. Herausg. von Dr. W. Dunker. 12er 



Band, 3e, 4e, and 5e Lief; 13er Band, le and 3e Lief, 14er Band, le 



Lief. Herausg. von H. von Meyer. Cassel, 1864 — 65. From the 



Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 

 Elliott, D. G. A Monograph of the Tetraoninae, or Family of Grouse. Part 



3, 1865. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Engelmann, W. Bibliotheca Historico-Naturalis. ler Band, 8vo. Leipzig, 



1846. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Exploration Geologiques du Canada. Rapport de Progr^s pendant les Annees, 



1853—56. Toronto, 1857. From Dr. Leidy. 

 Frauenfeld, G. Ritter von. Ueber eine Pflaozeverwiister eingesendet von Sr. 



Durchl. Fiirst Colloredo Mannsfeld. From the Author. 

 Ueber in der Gefangenschaft geborne Jungen von Salamandra Maculosa, 



Laur. From the Author. 

 Entomologische Fragmente. From the Author. 

 Zoologische Miscellen. Nos 1, 2, 3. From the Author. 

 Eine Reise nach Hammerfest. Wien, 1864. From the Author. 

 French Universal Exposition for 1867. Official correspondence on the eubject 



published by the Department of State. Washington, 1865. From the 



Department of State. 

 Frey, Dr. H. Das Mikroskop und die Mikroskopische Technik. 8vo. Leipzig, 



1863. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Gaudin, M. A. R6forme de la Chimie Minerale et organique. Paris, 1865. 



From the Author. 

 Gegenbaur, C. Untersuchungen zur vergleichenden Anatomic der Wirbelsiule 



bei Amphibien und Reptilien. Leipzig, 1862. From the Executors of 



Dr. Wilson. 

 Gerlach. Dr. J. Handbuch der allgemeine und speciellen Gewebelehre des 



Menschlichen Korpers. Mainz, 1850. From Dr. Leidy. 

 Gould, J. The Birds of Asia. Part 16. London, 1864. From Dr. Wilson 



on the usual conditions. 




300 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



The Birds of Great Britain. Parts 5 and 6. London. 1864. From Dr. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Graesse, J. G. T. Tresor de Livres rares et precieux. Tome 6me, Livres 1 



and 2, Dresde. 1864. Frona the late Dr. Wilson, on the usual con- 



diiions. 

 Gray, Asa. Introduction to Strufcftural and Systematic Botany and Vegetable 



Physiology. New York, 1858. From the Library Fund. 

 Gronau, Prof. J. F. W. Beilage zu den Tafeln fiir sJimmtliche trigonometrische 



Functionem der cyklischen und hyperbolischen Sektoren. Danzig, 



1863. From the Author. 

 Grote, Aug. R. Notes on the Sphingidae of Cuba. From the Author. 

 Giimbel, C. W. Geognostische Beschreibung des Bayerischen Alpengebirges 



und seines Vorlandes. Gotha, 1861. From the Executors of Dr. 

 * Wilson. 

 Gunther, Albert C. L. G. The Record of Zoological Literature, 1864. Vol. 



I. London, 1865. From the Library Fund. " 



Haberlandt. Ueber eine bisher wenig beobachtete Getreidemotte, Tinea pyro- 



phagella, Kllr. From the Author. 

 Cecidomyia destructor. Say. From the Author. 

 Haine, A. J. J. F. De Hyperdulia ejusque fundamento dissertatio historico- 



theologica. From the Author. 

 Halderoan, S. S. Notes on Wilson's Readers. From the Author. 

 Hall, Jas. Geological Survey of Canada. Figures and Descriptions of 



Canadian Organic Remains. Decade IL Graptolites of the Quebec 



Group. Montreal, 1865. From the Survey. 

 Account of some netv or little known species of Fossils from Rocks of the 



age of the Niagara Group. From the Author. 

 Hammond, Dr. Wm. A. On Wakefulness, with an introductory chapter on 



the Physiology of Sleep. 12mo. Philadelphia, 1866. From the 



Author. 

 Hannover, A. Das Mikroskop. Leipzig, 1854. From Dr. Leidy. 

 Hansteen, C. Resultate Magnetischer, Astronomischer und Meteorologischer 



Beobachtungen. 1863. From the Author. 

 Hartung, G. Betrachtungen iiber Erhebungskrater altere and neuere Ernp- 



tiomassen nebst einer Schilderung der Geologischen Verhaltnisse der 



Insel Gran Canaria. Leipzig, 1862. From the Executors of Dr. 



Wilson. 

 Heer, Oswald. Beitrage zur niihern Keuntniss der Sachsich-thuringischen 



Br?;Unkohlenflora. Berlin, 1861. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Die Urwelt der Schweiz. 2e— 6e Lief, and 12, 13^ Lief. Zurich, .1864. 



From the Executors of Dr. Wilsou. 

 Herget, E. W. Der Spiriferensandstein und seine Metamorphosen. 8vo. 



Wiesbaden, 1863. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Hervey, E. A Catalogue of the Plants found in New Bedford and its 



vicinity. New Bedford, 1860. From J. H. Thompson. 

 Hewitson, Wm. C. Exotic Butterflies. Part 53, 1865. From the Executors 



of Dr. Wilson. 

 Hoek, M. Recherches sur la Quantise D'Ether contenue dans les liquides, par 



M. Hoek et A. C. Oudemans. La Haye, 1864. From the Authors. 

 Recherches Astronomiques de rObservatoire d'Utrecht. 2me Livr. 



La Haye, 1864. From the Author. 

 Honeyman, Rev. Dr. On the Geology of Arisaig, Nova Scotia. From the 



Author. 

 Homes, Moriz. Die Fossilen Mollusken des Tertiser-Bekens von Wien. Band 



2, Nr. 5 and 6. From the Geological Society of Vienna. 

 Irgens, M. Om de Geologiske Forhold paa Kystslraekningen af Nordre Ber- 



genhus Amt. Christiania, 1864. From the Author. 

 James, S. P. On New Mosses. From the Author. 

 Jan, Prof. G. Iconographie Generale des Ophidiens. Texte 8vo, Livr. 1 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 301 



Pliites 4to, Livr. 2 — 9. Paris. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual con- 

 ditions. 

 Note sulla famiglia del Tiflopidi stii loro generi e sulle specie del generi 

 Stenostomi. From Dr. Wilson, oti the usual conditions. 



Jones, J. M. Contributions to the Natural History of the Bermudas. Part 1, 

 Mollusca. Halifax, 1864. From the Author. 



Karsten, H. B=!itrig zur Kenotaiss des Rhyachoprion Penetrans. Moakau. 



1864. From the Author. 



Kercado. Dt la Sericulture dans la Gironde. Bordeaux, 1863. From the 

 Author. 



ivoUiker, A. Ueber das Ende der Wirbelsaule der Ganoiden und einiger Tele- 

 ostier. Leipzig, 1860. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 



Kiinstler, G. A. Ueber Getreideverwiister. From the Author. 



Leidy, Jos. Cretaceous Reptiles of the United States. Philadelphia, 186f). 

 From the Author. 



Lesquereux, Leo. On the Origin and Formation of Praries. From the Author. 



List of the specimens of Lepidopterous Insecrs in the collection of the British 

 Museum. Part 2, and appendix. 12q30., London, 1847. 

 List of Cbalcidites. Parts I and 2, London, 1846 — 48. From the Execu- 

 tors of Dr. Wilson. 



Lyman, Theo. Illustrated Catalogue of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, 

 at Harvard College. No. 1. Ophiuridic and Astrophytidce. Cambridge. 



1865. From the Director. 



.Malmgren, A. J. Kritisk Ofversigt af Finlands Fisk-Fauna. Helsingfors, 



1863. From the Author. 



.Vlarcou, Jules. Geological Map of the World. Winterthur, 1861. From the 



Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Mason, Rev. F. Burmah, its people and natural productions, 1860. From 



Miss Mary A. Longstretb. 

 Massalongo, A. B. Specimen Pbotographicum anamalium quonimdam Plan- 



tarum Fossilium Agri Yeronensis. Veronae, 1859. From the Executors 



of Dr. Wilson. 

 Mather, W. W. First Annual Report on the Geological Survey of the State of 



Ohio. Columbus, 1838. From Chas. Lenig, Esq. 

 McChesney, J. H. Chicago Acadenoy of Sciences. Plates illustrating in part 



the New Species of Fossils from the Palaeozoic Rocks of the Western 



States. From the Author. 

 Meek, F. B. Check List of the Invertebrate Fossils of North America; Miocene. 



From the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Meteorologische Wairnemingeu in Nederland. Uitgegeven door het K. Neder- 



landsch Meteorologisch lustitut, 1863. Utrecht, 1864. From the In- 

 stitute. 

 .Meteorologische Beobachtungen. Aufgezeichnet auf Christiania's Observatori- 



um III. and IV. Lief. Christiania, 1864. From the Observatory. 

 Meyer, H. von. Palaeontographica. See Dunker. 

 Middendorff, Dr. A. Th. v. Silbirische Reise, Band 4, Theil 1. St. Petersburg, 



1864. From the late Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Miquel, F. A. G. Annales Musei Botanici Lugduno-Batavi. Tome 1, Fasc. 



4 — 10. Amsteloiami, 1864. From the late Dr. Wilson, on the usual 



conditions. 

 Milne-Edward?, H. Lecons sur la Physiologie. Tome 8me, 2me Partie. Paris, 



1865. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 



Moleschoit, Jac. Untersuchungen zur .Vaturlehre des Menschen und der Thiere. 



9 Band, 5es Heft Gie-=3:-n, 1365. From the Library Fund. 

 Morse, Edward S. A classification of Mollusca based on the principle of Ce- 



phalization. From the Author. 

 Mueller, Dr. C. Walper's. Annales Botanices Systematica-. Tome Sexti Fasc. 



1 — 7. Lipsiae, 1861. From the Library Fund. 

 Munch, P. A. Olaf Tryggvesons Saga ved Odd .Munk. Christiania, 1853. 



From the Norway Frederick University. 



20 




302 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Museum d'Histoire Naturelle de3 Pays-Bas. 5me and 6meLivr3. From the Ex- 

 ecutors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Olaf den Helliges Saga ved Snorre S'lurlassoti. Christiania, 1853. From the 



Norway Frederick University. 

 Orsted, A. S. Compte rendu provisoire de quelques observations sur le Fo- 



disma Sabinae, &c. From the Author. 

 Oudemans, A. C. See Hoek. 

 Packard, A. S. Synopsis of the Bombycidae of the United States. Part 2. 



From the Author. 

 Ijist of the animals dredged near Caribou Islands, Southern Labrador. 



From the Author. 

 Palaeontologie Francaise, Terrain Cretace, Livs. 14 to 18, Ter. Jur. Liv. r,. 



Paris, 1863 — 65. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Perrot & D'Evreux. Bibliotheca Americana, 2 vols. &mo. By Nicolas Ferret 



and Pere Yves D'Evreux. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Pfliiger, E. F. W. Ueber die Eierstocke der Siiugethiere und des Menscben. 



Leipzig, 1863. Fi-om the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Pitschner, Dr. W. Atlas zum Mont-Blanc. Sis Plates. From the Executors of 



Dr. Wilson. 

 Prevost, F. Historie Naturelle des Oiseaus d"Europe par Florenl Prevost et C. 



L. Lemaire. Paris. From the Library Fund. 

 Histoire Naturelle des Oiseaux exotiques par F. Prevost et C. L. Lemaire. 



Paris. From the Library Fund. 

 Priugsheim, Dr. N. Jahrbucber fiir Wissenscbaftliche Botatiik. 4er Band, 



2e3 Heft. Leipzig, 1865. Fromthe Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Quctclet, Ad. Resume des Obsr-rvations sur la Muteorologie et sur la raagne- 



tisme Terrestres faites il I'Observatoire Royale de BruxcUes, en 1861. 



From the Observatory. 

 Seven astronomical Tracts. From the Author. 

 Reukirt, T. Descriptions of four new species of Limacodf s. From tiie Author. 

 Notes upon exotic Lepidoptera, chiefly from the Philippine Islands, with 



descriptions of some new species. 1864. Froni the Author. 

 Contributions towards a monograph of the genus Ciocota. From the 



Author. 

 Observations on some American Pit rinse. From tlie Author. 

 Reeve, L. Conchologia Icocica, parts 238 to 345. London, 1864. From the 



Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Reinbardt, J. Pseudorco crassidens et for den Dansk Fauna nyt Hvaldyr. 



Kjobenhavn, 1863. From the Author. 

 Reinwald, Ch. Catalogue Annuel de la Libraire Frangaise pour 1858 — 1864. 



From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Siehl, Dr. W. H. Ueber den Begrfff der biirgerliclien Ges'^llschaft. Miinchen. 



1864. From the Author. 



Roblano, Fr. C. Maria de. De Jure Ecclesiae in Universitates Studiorum disser- 

 tatio historico canonica. Lovanii, 1864. From the University of Lou- 

 vain. 



Rothrock, T. A synopsis of the North American Gaurineae. From the Author. 



Sagra, Ramon de la. Icones Plantarum in Flora Cubana. Parisiis. 1863. 

 From the Executors of Dr. AVi'son. 



i^alter, J. W. Palaeontology of Nili in the Northern Himalaya. Descriptions by 

 J. W. Salter and H. F. Blanford. Calcutta, 1865. From Col. R. Stra- 

 cbey. 



Sars, Dr. Sh. Oversigt af Norges Echiuodermer ved Christianij, 186".. From 

 the Author. 



Schaufuss, L. W. Monographische Bearbeitung der Sphodrini. Dresden, 



1865. From the Author. 



Priced Catalogues of Mammals, Shells, Insects, B rds Nests and Egg?. 

 From the Author. 

 hchlegel, H. De Toerako's afgebeeld en beschreven door H. Schlegel. Am- 

 sterdam. 1860. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 303 



Schultze, Max. Die Hyaloneraen Bonn, 1860. From the Executors of Dr. 



Wilson. 

 ;Scudder, S. H. An account of the Discovery of Megalithic Cysts, near Madura, 

 South India. Boston, 1865. From S. H. Scudder. 

 On the Devonian Insects of New Brunswick. From the Author. 

 Revision of the hitherto known species of the genus Chionobas in North 

 America. From the Author. 

 8exe, S. A. Om SneebraiQ Folgefon. Chrisiiania, 1864. From the Author. 

 Simmony, Fr. Pbysiognomischer Atlas der Osterreichischen Alpen. Six 

 Chromo-lithographs with pamphlet of text. Gotha, 1862. From the 

 Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Sowerby, G. B. Thesaurus Conchyliorum. part 23. London, 1864. From the 

 Idte Dr. W^ilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Descriptions of three new species of shells. From the late Dr. Wilson, on 

 the usual conditions. 

 8teenstrup, J. J. S. Om Skjaevheden bos Flynderne eg navulig om Vandringea 

 af det ovre Oie fra Blindsiden til Oiesidea tvers igjennem Hovedet, m. 

 m. Kjobenhavn, 1864. From the Author. 

 Steindachner, Dr. Z. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Chromiden Mejicos und Cen- 

 tral Amerika's. Wien, 1864. From the Author. 

 Steindachner, M. F. H. Catalogue prelimioaire des Poissons d'Eau Douce de 

 Portugal conserves au museum d'historie naturelle de Lisbonne, 1864. 

 From the Author. 

 Stevens, H. Bibliotheca Americana. r2mo. London, 1862. From the Execu- 

 tors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Srimpson, Dr. W'". Malacozoological Notice, No. 1. On the Fossil Crab of Gay 



Head. From the Author. 

 Stoppani, Antoine. Paleontologie Lombarde. Livrs 28e — 33e, Troisieme Serie 



14 — 19. Milan. From the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 SulUvant, W"m. S. Icones Muscorum. 8vo. Cambridge, 1864. From the 



Author. 

 Sumichrast, F. Note sur les Mceurs des Que'ques Reptiles du Mexique. From 



the Author. 

 Sveriges Geologiska UndersOkning. Thirteen Geological Tracts accompanied 



by ten Maps of Sweden. From the Geological Survey of Sweden. 

 Thomas, Dr. G. H. Die Stellung Venedigs in der Weltgeschichte. Miiochen, 



1864. 

 Trubner's Bibliographical Guide to American Literature. London, 1859. From 



the Executors of Dr. Wilson. 

 Tryon, Geo. AY. Synonymy of Strepomatida2. From the Author. 

 Uricoechea, E. Contribuciones de Colombia a las Ciencias i alas Artas. Ano 



Primero. Bogota, 1860. 

 Van der Moeren. Dissertatio Theologica de Processione Spiritus Sancti ex 



Paire Filioque. 1864. From the University of Louvain. 

 White, D. A. New England Congregationalism. Salem, 181)1. Prom the 



Essex Institute. 

 Wilson, Dr. Thos. Bellerby, a memoir of. Philadelphia, 1865. From .Jacob 



Ennis, Esq. 

 Winchell, Alex. The soils and sub-soils of Michigan. Lansing, 18G5. From 

 the Author. 

 Notes on Selandria Cerasi, Harri-. as it occurs at Ann Arbor, Mich. From 



the Author. 

 Some indications of a Northward Transportation of Drifc Material in the 

 Lower Peninsula of Michigan. From the Author. 

 Wolf, Jos. Zoological Sketches. Second series, parts 5 and 6. London, 1863. 



From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Wood, A. Class-book of Botany. New York, 1864. From the Library Fund. 

 Wood, Rev. J. G. The Illustrated Natural History. 3 vols. London, 1863. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Wright, Thos. On the early history of Leeds. From the Literary and Piiiloe. 

 Soc. of Leeds. 




INDEX OF GENERA 



1865. 



Acanthias 175 



Acanthotelson ; 46 



Accipenser 274 



Acris 84, 194 



Acrodytes 194 



Acteooema 73 



Actinella 7, 15 



Actinocrinus 152, 164 



Adimouia 214 



Agalychnis 194 



Agelastica 205, 210 



Alburnus i 85 



Algansea 70 



Alligator 185 



Alloprosallocrinus 164 



Allorisma 110 



Ambloplites 84, 274 



Ameiva 197 



Amia 85 



Amblystoma 84 



Araphibamus 134 



Ampbora l7 



Amusivim 125 



Ancistrodon 191 



Anculosa 34 



Angitrema 21 



Anisopoda 46 



Angulus , 56 



Anobium 222, 227, 233 



Anolis 195, 197 



Anthracerpes 51 



AntUrapalsemon 50 



Antbus 106 



Apeltes 274 



Apbredoderus 274 



Arcbitectonica 73 



Arizona 197 



Arremon 170 



Astarte 57 



Astcrionella 16 



Atropus 195 



Aturia , 70, 73 



Avicula 73, 125 



Aviculopecten „. 125 



Axin.'«a 73 



Balsna 168, 180, 273 



Balanus 75 



Bela 63 



Bellerophon 130 



Bellinurus 43 



Beluga 198, 273, 278 



Boa 197 



Botbi-iechis 198 



Bryttus 83, 85, 274 



Buarremon 170 



Bubalichtbys 274 



Biifo .' 195 



Calemys 186 



Calliostoma 61 



Campostoma 85 



Carcharodon 184 



Cardiomorpba 128 



Carpiodes — 85 



Cassidulus 75 



Catonotus 82 



Catorama 238 



Catostoma 85, 195, 197 



Caudisona 191, 198 



Caulolatilii? C6 



Ceanotbus 181 



Centronella 123 



Ceratbichthys 85, 274 



Cerotoma 205 



ChsEnobryttus 84 



Chsenomya 250 



Chalybura 38 



Cbasmarhynchus 274 



Chelopiis , 185 




INDEX OP GENERA. 



305 



Chelydra IS? 



Cheonda 70 



Chersodromus 197 



Chirostoma 81 



Chlorospingus 171 



Chouetes 115 



Chorophilus 84, 194 



Chrysodomus 64 



Chrysoraitris 89 



Cinosternum 189 



Claudius 187 



Clementia 56 



Clypeaster 74 



Cocconeis 16 



Cocconema 16 



Coclocrinus 273 



Coelomera 205, 211 



Coelopleurus 74 



Coeaocara 242 



CoUetonema 16 



Comarocystites , 143 



Coniophanes ,. 195 



Conocardium 249 



Conopoterium 110 



Coaularia 130, 252 



Corvus 274 



Corynorhiaus 173 



Corythaeolus 195, 197 



Crassatella 73 



Cristellaria 74 



Crotalus 191, 198 



Cryptoceras 262 



Cryptodon 57 



Ctenobium 227, 229 



Ctendonta 128 



Cyathocrinus 150, 160 



Cylichna '. 58 



Cylindrosteus 85 



Cymbella 16 



Cypricardia 110 



Cyprina 73 



Cyrtia 275 



Cyrtina 275 



Cyrtoceras 132 



Cystophora 273 



Cythere 133 



Dalmania 264 



Decapoda 50 



Delphinus 199, 274, 281 



Dentnlium 59, 13! 



Denticula 16 



Dermatemys 187 



Diabiotica 205, 211 



Diadophis 197 



Diatoma 16 



Dione 73 



Diploglossus 195 



Discina 112 



Disci tes 260 



Discoidea 75 



Ditrupa 73 



Dorcatom;\ 242 



Dosiniopsis 184 



Drillia 62 



Drymobius 197 



Drj'omelic'tes 194 



Echiuiantbus 75 



Echinocardium 75 



Edmoadia 110, 127, 249 



Elapoclirus 19(» 



Elaps 198 



Elasraognatbus 183 



Embernagra 170 



Endolobus .. 259 



Entomostraca 43 



Epithemia IC 



Equus 94 



Ericymba 88 



Erisocrinus ... 149 



Ernobius 224 



Esox 78, 274 



Eubala^na 168 



Eulima 63 



Eunotia 7, 12, 16 



Euomphalus 1 10 



Eupactus 227, 235 



Euphonia 171 



Eurycoelon 19, 33 



Evactinopora 165 



Exoglossum 274 



Favosites 112 



Forbesiocrinus 139 



Fundulus 78, 85 



Gadus 69 



Galeruca 205, 213 



Gasterosteus 81, 85 



Gastrogyna 205, 210 



Geoclemmys 186 



Geotriton 195 196 



Geotrj-gon 108 



Gerrhoaotus 195, 197 



Gila 70, 85 



Gilbertsocrinus 1C6 



Globicephalus 198, 273 



Globulus 184 



Glomerife 172 



Glossolega 134 



Gomphoceras 258 



Gomphonema 16 



Goniatites 133, 154 



Goniobasis.. 19, 22 



Griffithides 268 



Graculus 5 



Grammysia 248 



Gryphaea 184 




J06 



INDEX OF GENERA. 



Hadrobregmus 227, 231 



Haltica 205 



Haliaetus 4 



Harpalus 98 



Hemiaster- 75 



Hemidactylium 195 



Hemii^tjchus 239 



Heterocrinus 147 



Himantodes 198 



Himatidium 12, 16 



Hippochrenes 73 



Hololepis 274 



Holopea 251 



Hyla 84, 194, 197 



Hylodes 195 



Hylophilus 37 



HyodoD 85 



Hyostoma 82 



Hybognathus 85, 274 



Hylella 194 



Hylonomus 134 



Hyperistius 84 



Hyperodon 274, 280 



Hyracodon 176 



Isopoda 46 



Isonema 251 



Ischnochitou 59 



lo 19 



Ictalurus 85 



Kennerlia 55 



Labrus 77 



La?manctus 192, 197 



Lagenorbynchus 177, 199 



Lanio 171 



Lasioderma 238 



Lavinia 70 



Leda 58, 128 



Lepeta 60 



Lepidosteus 85 



Lepomis 83 



Leptosolen 184 



Lichas 266 



Lielaphis 197 



Lima 125 



Limnaetus 4 



Limulus 43 



Lio derma 184 



Liophis 190 



Lithasia .... 22 



Lithopbaga 245 



Litoria 194 



Lucina 57 



Luperus 205, 208 



Lysimacbia 181 



Macoma 55 



Macrura 50 



Macropbora 74 



Mactra 73 



Malacosoma 205, 20*! 



Mangelia 63 



Margarita 61 



Mastogloia 17 



Mecistops 185 



Megaptera 178, 273, 279 



Melanura 78, 274 



Melozone 169 



Meridioa 16 



Mesalia 62 



Mesescbiza 34 



Metoptoma 131 



Micristodus 177 



Microgadus 69 



Micropterus 83 



Millita 74 



Mimosites 70 



Modiolopsis 246 



Monodoii 198 



Monotis 125 



Monoxia 205, 221 



llopalia 59 



Mordella 96 



Mordellistena 96 



Mortonia 74, 184 



Moxostoma 274 



Murchisonia 252 



Myaliua 127 



My ia re bus 38 



Myodites 96 



Myriapoda 51 



Xancmys 186 



Nautilus 70,73,132, 259 



Navicula 7, 9, 16, 18 



NeEera 54 



Necturus 84 



Nemopbora 74 



Nicobium 227, 231 



Ninia 195, 197 



Nipadites 70 



Nitzscbia 16 



Notopbtbalmus 84 



Nototrema 194 



Ocinebra 64 



Odontidium 7, 13 



Oligaspis 173 



Oligonierus 227, 228 



Oligosoma 195 



Onustus 73 



Opbibolus 197 



Opistbodelpbys 194 



Orbitolites 74, 184 



Orca 198, 273 



Ortbis 116, 277 




INDEX OF GENERA, 



307 



Orthoceras 132, 255 



Orthosira 16 



Ostrea 11, 73. 124, 184 



Osteocephalus 194 



Otus 5 



Ozoguathus 224, 226 



Palaeocampa 52 



Palaeocaris 48 



Pandora 55 



Panychlora 30 



Pecten, 58, 73, 184 



Pentamerus 117 



Pentremites 165 



Perca 82 



Percina 82 



Percopsis 85 



Pernopecten 125 



Pctaliura 227, 234 



Pharyngodon 193, 194 



Phillipsia 133, 268 



Phocsena 178, 198, 274, 279 



Phoenicothraupis 17 



Phonipara 169 



Phragmoceras 257 



Phvllecthris 205, 207 



Phyllobrotica 205, 206 



Phyllomedusa 194 



Pimephales 85 



Pinna 73, 126 



Pitylus 170 i 



Platanista 204 



Platyceras 131 



Platycrinus 160 



Platygobio 85 



Pleurocera 19 



Pleurosigma 16 



I'leurophorus 246 



Pleurotomaria 73, 131, 252 



Pliocercus 190, 197 



Plistodon 197 



Poecilichthys 82, 85 



Polioptila 37 



Polyborus 2 



Polyodon 274 



Pomotis 83 



Pomoxys 64 



Potarnocottus 81 



Poteriocrinus 152, 155 



Porocrinus 145 



Priscofusus 73 



Producta 112 



Prcetus 267 



Protheca 241 



Protocardia 7! 



Psammobia 55 



Ptephis 5G 



Pterinea 124 



Ptilinus 223 



Ptiaodes 227, 230 



Ptychemys 187 



Ptychochilus 70 



Pugiun cuius 131 



Pycnodonta 184 



Pyranga 171 



Pyrgisoma 169 



Pyrgorhyncus 74 



Pythina 57 



Rana 84, 195, 196 



Rhadinea 197 



Rhinichthys 85, 274 



Rhinoceros 176 



Rhinodon 177 



Rhynchonella 120 



Rissoa 62 



Roccus 83 



Sanguinolites 127 



Scaphirhynchops 274 



Sceloporu.s 195, 196, 197 



Schizostoma 34 



Scytopis 194 



Sedgwickia 251 



Seniicossyphus 77 



Semotilus 85, 274 



Sanguinolaria 129 



Sanguinolites 251 



Serpula 73 



Shffinia 64 



Siboma 70 



Sibon 198 



Siredon 197 



Sismondia 74, 75 



Sitodrepa 227, 229 



Smilisca 194 



Solena 184 



Spelerpes 195, 196, 197 



Sphserocrinus 154, 273 



Spbserodactylus 192 



Spilornis ; 2 



Spilotes 195, 197 



Spirifer 275 



Spirifera 118 



Spiriferina 119, 275 



Spirigcra Il7 



Spiiorbls 73 



Sporoj»hila 169 



Stauroneis 12, 16 



Staurotypus 188 



Sleno 204 



Stcnorhina 197 



Stilbins 274 



Stizostediuni 82, 85 



Strei)hobasis 22 



Strcptorhynchus 117 



Stiaparolius HO, 132 



Surculi 73 




308 



INDEX OF GENERA. 



Surirella 7, 15 



Sycotopus 13 



Svnedra 7, 15 



Syntrilasma 277 



Syringothjris 275 



Tabellaria 16 



Tachyphonus 106, 171 



Tanagra , 171 



Tantilla 197 



Tapirus 183 



Taxocrinus 138 



Tellimya •. 58 



Tellina 56 



Tentaculites 254 



Tetracyclus 14 



Tetradecapoda 46 



Thamnophilus 107 



Thamnophis 197 



Theca 227, 235 



Thoropa 194 



Thymallus 80 



Tigoma 70 



Tornatina 58 



Trachycephalus 194 



Trachydermon 60 



Trematocrinus 107 



Trichodesma 227, 230 



Trigonocpphalus 198 



Trigonotreca 275 



Triloculiua 73 



Trirhabda 205, 219 



Trisotropus 104 



Trochoceras 263 



Trochocopus 77 



Tropidoclonium 190, 197 



Tropidodipsas 198 



Trutta . 80, 85 



Trypopitys 227, 234 



Unio 75, 8K 



Uranidea 82 



Venericardia 71, 73, 184 



Venus 57 



Vivipara 71 



Volutilithes 71, 73, 184 



Xestobium 224, 227 



Xyletinus 237 



Xyphosura 43 



Yoldia 73 



Zaphreatis Ill 




GENERAL JNDEX. 



Allen, Dr. H., On a new Genus of Ves- 

 pertilionidse, 138, 173. 



Brown, Jos. D., announcement of death 

 of, 1T6. 



Carpenter, Philip P., Diagnoses Speci- 

 arum et Varietalum Novarum Mol- 

 hiscorum, prope Sioum Pugetianum 

 a kennerlio Doctcre, nuper decfsso, 

 collectorum, 54. 

 ('arson, Dr. Jos., Observation on Amer- 

 ican Tea, 181. 

 Cassin, John, Notes on some New and 

 little known Rapacious Bird?, 2 ; An 

 Examination of the Birds of the Ge- 

 nus Chrysomitris, in the Must-am ol 

 the Academy, 77, 89: On some Co 

 nirostral Birds from Costa Ricn, in 

 the Collection of the Smithsonian 

 Institution, 137, 169. 

 Committees for 1865, 36. 

 Conrad, T. A., Observations on the 

 Eocene Lignite formation of tht 

 United States, 70; Catalogue of the 

 Eocene Annullata, Foraminifera. 

 Echinodermata and Cirripedia of ibt 

 United States, 73 ; Desi-ri[)tious ol 

 New Species of Echinidce, 75 ; Ob- 

 servation on American Fossils, witb 

 Description of two new .«pecies, 183 

 184. 

 Cooper, Dr. J. G., On a new Cormo 

 rant from the Farallone Islands, Call 

 fornia, 5. 

 Oope. E. D., Partial Catalogue of thi 

 Cold blooded Vertebrata of Michi 

 gan, Pt. 11., 76, 78; On Amphibamu- 

 Graudiceps, a new Batrachian froa 

 the Coal Measures, 109, 134: Note 

 on a Species of Whale found in th« 

 River Delaware, 137, 1G8 ; Notes on 

 a Species of Hunchback Whale, 176. 

 1 78 ; Third Contribution to the Her- 

 petology of Tropical America, 183 

 185; A Contribution to a Knowledgt 



of the DelphinidcB, 183, 198 ; Second 

 Contribution to the History of the 

 Delphinidre, 273, 278 ; Observations 

 on a Species of Seal and on Ceta- 

 ceans, 273 ; Observation on the 

 Geographical Distribution of some 

 Fishes, 274. 



Correspondence during 1865, 287. 



Cuesta, Ferd. de la., Announcement of 

 the death of, 77. 



Darrach, Dr. Wm., Announcement of 



the death of, 77. 

 Donations to Museum, 290. 

 Donations to Library, 292. 

 Dandas, Jas., Announcement of death 



of, 109. 



Elections during 1865, 286. 



Fonlke, Wm. Parker, announcement of 



the death of, 95. 

 Frv, J. Reese, Announcement of death 



of, 109. 



Gill, Theodore, Synopsis of the Genua 

 Pomoxys, 64 ; On the Genus Caulo- 

 latilus, GG ; Notes on several Genera 

 of Cyprinoids, 69 ; On the Cranial 

 Characteristics of Gadus Proximus, 

 69 ; On a New Genus of Serraninae, 

 95, 104 : On a New Generic Type of 

 Sharks, 176, 177; On Two Species 

 of Delphinida;, from Califbraia, 176, 

 177; Communication respecting a 

 New Generic Type of the Family Ta- 

 ptridse, 183. 



Glenn, Mr., Exhibition of Microscopic 

 Preparations, 183. 



GiiQther, Dr. A., Remarks on tUe Gen- 

 era Semicossyphiis and Troclioco- 

 pus, 1 ; Remarks on Labrus pulcher 

 (Ayres), 77. 



Hayes, Dr. I. L, Observation on two 

 skulls of Whales, 274. 




310 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Helmuth, C. A., New species of Mordel-; 

 lida; collected in Illinois, 95 96. : 



Hepburn, James, Kote on Graculus 

 Bairdii, the White-patched Cormo-I 

 rant of the Farrallone Islands, Lai., 



Hooker, Sir Wdq. J., Announcement of 

 death of, 175. ^ ., 



Hopkinson, Dr. Jos., Announcement ot| 

 death of, 109. , 



Index of Genera, 304. ! 



Jackson, Dr. R. M. S., Announcement 

 of the death of, 1. 



tice of some new Types of Orccanic 

 Remains, from the Coal Measures of 

 Illinois, 41 ; Remarks on the Genus 

 Tasocrinus, (Phillips,) McCoy, 1844 ; 

 and its relations to Forbesiocnnns, 

 Koninck and Le Hon, 1854 ; with 

 descriptions of new species, 109 : 

 Descriptions of new species of Crino- 

 idea, &c., from the Pala;ozoic Rocks 

 of Illinois and some of the adjoining 

 States, 109, 136, 143, 155; Note on 

 the Genus Gilbertsocrinus, Phillips. 

 166: Contributions to the Palaeon- 

 tology of Illinois and other Western 

 States, 245 ; Observations on micro- 

 scopic'shell structure of Spii ifer Ciis- 

 pidatus, bv F. B. Meek, 244, 275. 

 Moore, Dr. Francid M., Announcement 

 of the death of, 181. 



Lawrence, Geo. N., Descriptions of new 

 species of Birds of the Families Pa- 

 rida, Vireonidre, Tyrannida; and 

 Trochilida;, with a note on Myiarchus 

 Panamensis, 37 ; Descriptions of four 

 new species of Birds from the Isth-^ 

 mus of Panama, 106. i 



Lea, Isaac, Descriptions of three new 

 species of Exotic Dniones, 7o; De-j 

 scriplions of eight new species of 

 Dnio of the United States, 76, 88. 

 Le Conte, Dr. J. L., Notes on the spe- 

 cies of Myodites Latr. inhabiting the 



"S ^rHr,p!L'.'lL»';uS A-r.l EeVorr„r Ke»r.i„. 3.0..,^. .8. 

 S:n ^rU, of L.ico » J OS ; 0„ ,.e r.epo« o ■^^■^^^ ,„„,,„„ 

 species ot Galeruca and al.iea vren 

 era inhabiting North America, 183 

 •^04 • Prodromns of a Monograph of 

 the species of the Tribe Anobiinii, of 

 the Family Ptinidse, inhabiting North 

 America, 183, 222. 

 Leidy, Dr. Jos., Observation on ihe^ 



existence of a boring ^P2':Sj;^^^;°^f j T,.on Geo. W., Synopsis of the species 

 the cretaceous penod 77 , RemarkJ T'jon ,.^y^ ^l ^^^^.^^.^^ ^^^^ 



0LtTa\irsr a° KJ^ke^nSding lusca iLabiting North America, 1, 



at Cape Henlopen, 95 ; Remarks on 19. 



a iceVAl Acanthias Amencanus l^^M ^ Thos. B., Announcement 



marks on specimens of Oolitic Phos 

 phates of Lime and Alumina, 181; 

 On bones and stone implements from 

 auano deposits in the Island of Or- 

 chiUa. W. I., 181. 

 Lewi« F. W., Dr.. On extreme arid 

 exceptional variations of Diatoms in 



OfBcers for 1866, 285. 



Price Rich., Announcement of death 

 ! of,'l09. ■ 

 Proceedings, Presentation of the Num- 

 ber for November and December, 

 1864, 37. 



Rand, Dr. B. H, Resignation as RecorJ- 

 ing Secretary read, 109. 

 eport of Recording Secre 

 i^eport of Curators, 282. 

 Report of Committee on Conchology, 

 284. 



Smith, Jac. R., Announcement of death 



of, 176. 

 Storer, Dr., Observation on the \ oung 



of Sygnathus, 77. 



reference to that event, 40 ; Meeting 

 for the purpose of attending the fu- 

 neral of, 41. 



Winchell, Alex., Descriptions of new 

 .species of Fossils from the Marshal! 

 Group of Michigan, and its supposec 



• equivalent in other States, 94, 109 



I-TwVu; Mo.„.ain loc.m.e,, *c..l ^^^^^^^Sl^lS:^'^^:^ 

 -' "^^ ry, 183. 



Meek, F. B., and A. H. Worthen, No-j Worthen, A. H., see Meek. 














UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





