





7-5 



PEOCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA 



1HG7. 



P H I L A D E L P IT I A : 



P R I N TED K O K T » K ATA IJ F, M Y 

 18G7. 




IV. LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



Meeban, Thos. On the Structure of Lopezia 33 



Note on Dioicoeus forms of Titis vinifera -t'i 



Additional Note on Dioicoeus forms of Titis vinifera 98 



Sbimer, Henry, M.D. On a new genus in Homoptera (Section ilonomera) 2 

 Notes on Micropus (Lvgaeus) Leucopterus, Say (" The Chinch-Bug "). 



With an account of a great Epidemic Disease of 1865 among Insects 7,5 



Additional Note on the Chinch-Bug 234 



Slack, Dr. J. H. Mammalogical Notices 34 



Smith, Aubrey H. On the Colonies of Plants observed near Philadelphia 15 



Wood, Alphonso. Description of a New Genus of Plants 81 



Wood, Dr. H. C. Descriptions of new species of Texan Myriapoda 4"2 



Notes on a Collection of California Myriapoda, with the Description of 



New Eastern Species 127 




^^J 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA, 



1867. 



Jan. \st. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



The following deaths were announced : 



Edward F. Sanderson, Esq., Member; and Rev. Stephen Elliott, of 

 Georgia, and Prof. Geo. W. Featherstonhaugh, of Havre, France, Cor- 

 respondents. 



Jan. Sth. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-six members present. 



Jan. loth. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chain 

 Twenty- nine members present. 



Jan. 22d. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, iu the Chair, 

 Thirty-four members present. 



Jan. 2Qth. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chain 



Twenty-seven members present. 



Dr. H. C. Wood tendered his resignation as Recording Secretary. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 



J. E. Farnum, W. H. Stevens, Edw. B. Edwards, Dr. James Levick, 

 Charles Gibbons, John B. Austin, Wm. S. Baird, Edwin Greble, Walter 

 B. Smith, C. F. Haseltine and Wilson M. Jenkins. 

 1867.] 1 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The following were elected correspondents : 



Prof. O. C. Marsh, New Haven, Conn., and Prof. Wm. H. Brewer, 

 New Haven, Conn. 



Pursuant to the By-Laws, an election of members of the Standing 

 Committees for the ensuing year was to be held, but was deferred until 

 the next meeting fur business. 



On favorable report of the committee the following paper was ordered 

 to be published : 



On a new genus in HOMOPTERA,— (Section Monomera.) 



BY HENRY SHIMER, M. D. 



Characters for a supposed new Family. 



DACTYLOSPHJEEID,^, Shimer. 



Wings four, carried fiat on the back in repose. 

 Antennae few, jointed. 



Tarsi composed of one joint, terminated by two claws, and from two to 

 six digituli.* 

 Honev-tubes none ; otherwise resembling Aphidse. 



DACTYLOSPH^RA. New genus.f 



Male — Anterior wing with one one-branched discoidal, and a stigmatic 

 nervure ; posterior wing with no discoidal. 



Female — Apterous, body thick, clumsy, subellipsoidal. 



Common Characters — Antennae 3-4 jointed. Tarsi, six digituli. Promuscis 

 sheath four-jointed, 



DaCTYLOSPH.ERA GLOBOSUM, U. Sp. 



Inhabits galls on the Pig-nut Hickory, {Carya glabra.) 

 Male — Abdomen and prothorax orange-yellow; mesothorax, head and eyes, 

 blackish ; legs and antennte dark cinereous. Wings hyaline, broad, some- 

 what overlapping as they lie horizontally on the back. Anterior wing, even- 



* t suggest this name, digituli. from the Latin digituhis, a small finger or toe, for these 

 remarkable organs: it appears to me appropriate, because tbey are arranged around the foot 

 somewhat like the loes of an animal. 



A. B. 



, A.— a side Tiew of ,the foot of Z>.' vii!/o/i« magnified; a, the 

 two digituli : b. the claws. " D. 



B.— a vertical yiew of the foot of Dactylosphiera glohosum, from above, magnified ; a. the six 

 digituli; b. the claws, as they may be seen while the insect attempts to walk on the glass plate 

 of a microscope. 



C. — the promuscis sheath of 

 D. globo.ntm. 

 D. —Upper and under wing of 

 ■( Dactylofpliiera t riti/oliie great- 

 / ly magnified. This figure was 

 drawn from the only specimen 

 I have remaining, (from the Clinton grape gall.) The dotted lines in the anterior wing are what 

 I saw under the microscope in the recent specimen ; the shading between the costal and sub- 

 costal nerves represents a hazy apoearanee. as I saw it under the micro.scope. The vein in the 

 posterior wing is very obscure, but I saw it with an excellent simple lens. 



t From (faxTuXof , a finger or toe, and a-<;)a7pu, a globe, on account of the slender globe-ended 

 appendages of the tarsi. — digituli. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 6 



\j rounded on the posterior margin ; anterior margin rather straight, some- 

 what curved, convex at the middle of the stigma, apex quite broadly rounded, 

 the wide wedge-shaped base not extending beyond the middle ; stigmatic 

 nervure nearly straight, terminating in the centre of the apex, not visible at 

 either end. The discoidal within the middle of the wing, not visible at its 

 outer end, somewhat convex anteriorly, its branch hyaline at its extremities ; 

 stigma honey yellow, darkest on the costal margin, the apical end lanceo- 

 late ; inwardly extending to the base of the wing, all the costal space being 

 of the same color. Posterior wing, one longitudinal vein and no discoidal. 

 Tibiae and tarsi with a few scattering hairs ; claws p^leish horn-colored, with 

 blackish tips. Antennte four-jointed, sublinear, 1st and 2d short and thick, 

 the others long, the third on a narrow pedicel, which may be a small joint, 

 fourth clavate. Length to tip of wings -07 inch; body about -025 inch long. 



Female much resembling the " grape leaf louse," {D? vid/oliee), but smaller, 

 the dull pointed promuscis blackish at the extremity; eyes of few (about 

 five) facets. 



-Eff^s similar to those of the "grape leaf louse." Smaller and of a deeper 

 yellow. 



Fttpa of male orange-yellow, sometimes inclined to greenish; undeveloped 

 wings pale j-ellon* ; body somewhat elongate; abdomen pointed; antennie 

 linear, three-jointed, 1st thick, subglobose ; 2d smaller, short, thick; 3d very 

 long, clavate, obliquely pointed, without a spine at the apex, a spine on the 

 inner side of the first and second joints. 



Gall variable in size, often numerous in the parenchyma of the leaf, others- 

 on the veins and leafstalks, all opening on the lower side of the leaf, with a 

 very small orifice; smoolhish, of a somewhat leathery structure, pale yellow- 

 ish-green, glaucus or dark green; subglobose or sometimes somewhat irregu- 

 lar, without any of the mealy sugary dust within, which is common in galls 

 of the Aphis family. 



There is apparently a disposition among some authors to create separate 

 species out of the insects inhabiting galls thus variable, according to their size 

 and location. The small subglobular galls, about -09 — -14 in. in diameter, in 

 the plane of the leaf, and about -04— -OG in. in a perpendicular direction through 

 it, are often very abundant, and when quite full of eggs I have counted 

 about 50 ; the young larva usually leaves the gall as soon as hatched, and 

 proceeds, as does the •' grape leaf louse " {D? vi/ifolix), to construct anew 

 gall ; sometimes these small galls contain several females, but I have never 

 found males in them; the male-producing galls are larger, of various sizes, 

 up to I of an inch or even more in diameter. During the summer and autumn 

 and former years, I have examined many of these galls, some of them are 

 globular, others somewhat irregular. In my original studies 1 took notes ot 

 them as distinct species ; they were on the leaf-stalks, veins, and in the pa- 

 renchyma, occasionally near the border of the leaf, most frequently in the 

 parenchyma of the leaf, close to the veins and midribs, so that at first view 1 

 was led to believe that they were originally formed in the latter, but upon 

 dissection I found them usually entirely in the parenchyma, the gall Ireely. 

 separating from the veins ; these were filled with eggs, larva, pupa, and 

 imago. 



The winged males were numerous, but, as the weather then was very wet, 

 they were in an extremely bad condition, their wings adhering to the walls 

 of the galls and to their own bodies from the excessive dampness in the galls ; 

 but among the hundreds observed I saw a number of perfect specimens. 

 Subsequently, in more pleasant weather, I examined several dark green, more 

 perfectly globular galls, located as those observed before, with a good supply 

 of winged specimens in perfect condition. I made careful examination and 

 notes as before, and found that tiiey agreed with the formt-r precisely and 

 compared favorably with the former dried specimens ; and furthermore. I 

 made a careful microscopic examination of the larva in comparison with 



1867.] 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



those in the small galls above alluded to, and I could detect no difference; 

 both kinds existed on the same leaves frequently, and sometimes on diflerent 

 leaves of the same tree; other trees have numerous galls all of the small 

 size ; in none of these small galls, after the most diligent search, have I ever 

 been able to find a winged male. The conclusion that I have arrived at is 

 that the galls that produce the winged males develope to a larger size, so as to 

 make room for the coming winged inhabitant, on the great principle or law 

 of nature that provides for the wants of every creature, often in a mysterious 

 manner. These small subglobular galls could not conveniently accommo- 

 date the winged males. The male- producing grape leaf gall, also, is very 

 long and well developed, so far as my limited observations have extended, 

 while galls containing fertile females are variable from large to even quite 

 small. From my examinations of these Hickory-leaf gall insects, I never 

 saw the males support themselves by their wings, although they attempted 

 flight when dropped properly from the point of a needle ; the atmospheric 

 temperature then was moderately cool, which may account for their weakness. 

 When they attempt to fly, the hook of the posterior wing clasps the thicken- 

 ed posterior border of the anterior wing, but not when at rest. The male of 

 the grape leaf (vilifoliie) gall insect also thus made several ineffectual attempts 

 at flight, but was not able to support its body; how this might be in a very 

 warm suuny day I did not have the privilege of determining. 



During my microscopic examinations I became convinced that the apparent 

 enlargement of the posterior border of the anterior wing of these insects, is 

 not a developement of a nervure or a mere tumefaction of the border, but a 

 rolling up of the margin like a scroll, which much more admirably fits it for 

 a permanent retaining point for the hook on the anterior margin of the pos- 

 terior wing. 



To make a thorough examination of the feet and their appendages, the 

 living insect is the only material from which it can be satisfactorily done. 

 The tivo claws, as in the case of the "grape leaf louse,'' can be easily seen as 

 the insect attempts to walk on the glass plate. The tarsi of the larva and 

 female only have two conspicuous digituli, but the male, as it approaches the 

 imago state, develops six; these I observed in the pupa, being the most con- 

 venient state for the examination of these organs; those in the middle, be- 

 tween the long or principal pair, are not always so conspicuous, but may be 

 plainly seen under proper circumstances ; more frequently they appear as one 

 short stub-like spine. 



The knobs on the extremities of the principal digituli, over the claws, are 

 globular, while those on the middle and lateral ones are obovoid and com* 

 paratively small. 



The legs, feet, etc., of the male imago are much longer than in any other 

 state, hence they- appear to be the best material for satisfactory examination, 

 regarding the problem of one or two joints for the tarsi. "While the insect 

 was walking slowly under the microscope, I beheld, in a vertical direction, 

 that the tarsi are composed of at least three rings or segments, none of which 

 presented a movable joint; I then crushed the abdomen, but did not injure 

 the thorax ; by this means I brought some of the legs on the side, so that the 

 joints moved in a plane parallel with the glass plate; this also had the ad- 

 vantage of confining the insect to the spot, and, as I did not injure the 

 thorax, I had a fair opportunity of examining the tarsi for a long time, with 

 the advantage of such motion as I desired while the insect struggled for free- 

 dom ; this view of the Jarsi demonstrates that they are composed of four 

 rings soldered together, none of them gave the slightest joint-like motion ; 

 the upper ring is the most plainly distinct from the succeeding one ; on the 

 under side of the foot I beheld some constriction, but on the sides and hbove 

 there is none ; I observed this with great care, but saw no motion, the bending 

 of the foot being confined entirely to the articulation of the tarsus with the 

 tibia. I then, by way of comparison, examined, under similar circumstances, 



f Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



the foot of a species of Aphis, abundant on tbe apple trees, and saw it com- 

 posed of the same number of rings ; the upper one at its union with the suc- 

 ceeding showed some constriction, as seen either from above or from the side 

 view ; moreover the motion of a joint was very satisfactorily seen, the insect 

 sometimes bending it alone, at other times in conjunction with the tibio-tarsal 

 joint. 



Now, in view of these facts, I can see no reason for claiming two joints for 

 the tarsi of this insect. It would be as reasonable to suppose that each 

 primary ring was a joint, and then we would have four, which, with the 

 digituli that might he the representatives of another joint, give five unde- 

 veloped joints — joints in embryo— the highest number in the more perfect 

 Insectians ; but in the case of this and other species of this familj^, which I 

 have observed, all are soldered together. By extending my examinations to 

 the tibia I found it composed of about 50 similar primary rings, each one of 

 which was plainly widened from above downward, thus agreeing in the gen- 

 eral structural anatomy with the tarsus. This same primary annultted 

 structure I beheld in the antennas of these insects, also in several species of 

 AphidiB to which I extended my observations by waj' of comparison. 



Frequent!}' the distal or wide eud of these primary rings is prolonged into 

 spines, &c., more or less numerous according to the species of insect. These 

 observations give us a view of the true primary anatomical structure of the 

 long members of insects, for this annulated structure very probablj-- exists in 

 the long members of all insects, although not so readily detected, in manv 

 cases, as in the translucent limbs of these insects. Furthermore, these obser- 

 vations lead us to be careful abotit prououucing upon the number of joints in 

 the tarsi. To designate each one of these rings as a true joint would lead us 

 at once into inconsistencies, for any anatomist could not presume that the 

 tibia is composed of 50 joints, or the antenn;^ of this insect, and many sjjecies 

 of the Aphidee, of perhaps hundreds ; hence, where we behold in the tarsi pre- 

 cisely the same structure, we are no more justifiable in ascribing to it 4 or 5 

 joints, or even two, without beholding the motion of a joint, or the usual con- 

 striction. In view of these facts I have made extended and careful observa- 

 tions on the tarsi of these insects, and have become entirely satisfied that there 

 is but onf joint. These are my reasons for believing that these insects beloncr 

 to a new family between the Aphidie and Coccidie. 



The promuscis sheath of tliis insect I examined under more favorable condi- 

 tions than that of the " grape leaf louse," and clearly saw four joints ; and if, 

 as I believed, there are two in close proximity, as shown in the magnified 

 sketch at ff, fig. C, on page 1, there are five joints, while in the latter I did 

 not succeed in distinguishing more than three ; perhaps with j)roper material 

 the same arrangement may be discovered in the latter as in the former species. 

 In D. (jlobosum I had an abundance of male pupae and winged images for ex- 

 amination, while in the 1) ? vitifoliai I was chiefly confined to females and 

 larvse. The bundle of setffi I could not separate, although I made numerous 

 examinations, with the living insect on its back, for the purj)ose of ascertain- 

 ing positively. I often saw the insect take hold of it by grasping it between 

 the claws and the foot, pulling and bending it in various directions, sometimes 

 seizing it with two feet and pulling in opposite directions, yet I could not de- 

 termine more than one piece. 



Dactylosph^era ? viTiFOLi.E * (Thc "Grape loaf louse.") 



Pemphigus vitifolix, Fitch, 1st and 2d Reports, p. 158. Walsh, Practical 

 Entomologist, vol. i., p. 111. 



! 



* Not wishing to multiply genera unnecessarily,! have not constructed a noTf gcnng for thi.i 

 insect, but my cunvictiDns are that tiiere ar^ characteis that probably warrant its sojiaration 

 from Ddrtijlosphicra. arcurding to cii.stom. Tlie stiftmatic nervine was absent in all the Pi)fcinicns I 

 saw, but upon close examination with a niicroseipe of moderate power, in one specimen I iniii<;ined 

 that I saw part of a taint darli Hue in one wiug, where it might be sought for. The branch of 



1867.] 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Inhabits galU on the grape leaf, tendrils and vine. 



Male — Body moderately slender ; abdomen sharply taper-pointed, with a few 

 scattering hairs at the extremity ; head short : neck thick. Body, head, legs, 

 and antennas light jellow", the two latter palest : a broad dark band encircling 

 the middle of the thorax. Wings membranaceous, hyaline ; in repose, some- 

 what overlapping, rather wide or diverging behind the extremeties ; in the only 

 entirely perfect specimen observed were slightly curved upwards. Anterior 

 wing widest in the middle, subobovate ; posterior margin one regular curve 

 or arc of a circle from the base to the outer extremity ; apex completely 

 rounded and comparativelj^ broader than I have observed of our common 

 Aphidx ; anterior margin irregularl}^ convex, the greatest convexity being 

 somewhat nearer the basal extremity, where it is considerably^ rounded for- 

 ward ; a small, inconspicuous costal, and a yellowish strong subcostal nerve ; 

 one dark discoidal springing from about the basal third or fourth of the sub- 

 costal and shading off or becoming lost in the membrane before reaching the 

 border : outlines of these nervures rather hazy, obscure, not sharply defined ;-)■ 

 a long, very obscure branch passes longitudinally from near the middle of the 

 discoidal, in some specimens scarcely, if at all, perceptible ; part of the costal 

 space near the base, and an imperfect, undefined stigma, light fulvous. Poste- 

 terior wing, small, narrow ; no discoidal nerve ; subcostal scarcely perceptible, 

 somewhat near the costal. Tibise and tarsi with a few hairs or spines, a some- 

 what prominent one beneath the foot near the joint. The digituli, with their 

 conspicuously globular extremities, arise from the extremity of the tarsi, just 

 above the claws, and project beyond the long subcylindrical tarsi about one- 

 half their length, and about four times the apparent length of the compara- 

 tively thick, much curved, light horn-colored claws, as held when walking ; 

 these slender, almost hair-like appendages or fingers are smooth, slightly 

 curved do"wnward, not tapering to the extremity, terminates in an abrupt, com- 

 plete globe of about two or three times the diameter of the pedicel. Antennae 

 long compared with those of the female, but moderate when compared with 

 those of some Aphidre ; pale whitish-yellow, inserted before the eyes, they 

 usually appear three-jointed, (and will be thus considered when examining with 

 a good pocket lens, and more especially in the dried specimen, where we have 

 not the advantages of motion under the microscope, so invaluable in the living 

 specimen.) The extreme joint being very long, and under a higher power 

 annulated with about 25 fine grooves, the marks of the primary rings; but in 



the iliscoilal is so very obscure as to be easily overlooked, and, being a microscopic character, 

 might lie rejected, but if retained we still have the generic characters diffeiing from Daclylo- 

 sphsea.viz.: Anteri'r wing with one one-branched discoidal. Antennae 3 — 8 joints. Tarsi two 

 digituli. In case, however, the ctiaracters given above should be sufficient to separate, generic- 

 ally, vilifoliie from I), fflohasuin, I would propose the generic name of Viteus for the former, 



t I wish to be clearly understood regarding what 1 saw if these wing characters. Very prob- 

 ably they will not all be admitted as existing characters by clos^t inves-tigaticn (f the lirj- sp<ci- 

 men. -My e.\amination.« were all made in the receut state. With a good lens the d scoidal nerTe 

 can be seen not .•\s a cinar, sbai ply deiined rib, but as an ob.scure, hazy, margined line : the same 

 may be snid of the subcustal uerve which, however, is much plainer, the discoidal branch not 

 observable. 



With agood compound microscrpe, rf different increasing powers, somethinemore can he learned 

 inthe}vc,H( state. All the veins are in an imperfect or iwi lially developed state: the walls of the 

 tubes are uots comp'et<*ly formed as to present the shaiply defined lines observable in higher de- 

 veloped infects, and wiib sufficient p. wer to discover the primitive cells, we behcdd them piled up 

 on ea' h other— great bli cks of micro.sci pic masonry— the foundations of the walls of 'he rfijis. 

 Lookir.g through the centre o' the forming tube, the field appears m< re transparent, because we 

 do not lof'k ihrougli so great a depth of the inijicrftct tube walls a sat the side; this (ent;al trans- 

 parency of these hazy lines in the wirg is, fuvlherniore, an evidence that it is a channel for the 

 circulation of the blood. The margins and termiiiations (.f these veins appear hazy because the 

 cells are in a loose or diffuse state. In most insects the walls of the veins are completed, hei:ce 

 the ribs are ci. arly dttined. 'Ihese reniaiks are peculiarly adapted to the rfisco/t/:!; nervure, 

 ^vhcie the cells that nature has piovided lor the construction of the tube of the vein are to be 

 Been to go.d advantage between the membranes of the wing. The branch of thedisioSdal is a 

 Very slender c pillary tube, with similarly imperfect walls. I saw in one wing a faint tiac^- of a 

 capillary stigmatic i eivure in a small part of its course. The subcostal nerve ot the p' sti^rior 

 wing is in the i-anie undeveloped condition and almost capillary— microscopic. I examined, ti.as, 

 every portion of the wings of my specimens, elsewhere I saw no trace of nerves, only the uniform 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



one specimen I fairly succeeded in resolving this extremity into five joints, 

 making in all really seven joints somewhat nearly equal ; first joint tumid, 

 very short; second short and thick also, but much smaller than the first, 

 truncately rounded at the outer end, with a somewhat prominent spine pro- 

 jecting from the anterior margin and a solitary capillary hair of equal length ; 

 third connected with the second by a narrow pedicel ; fourth slender, small : 

 thence the joints become gradually thicker towards the last ; fifth longest, 

 about equal to the third with its pedicel ; sixth shortest excepting the basal ; 

 seventh becoming obliquely tapering towards the apex, which sustains three 

 short spines. The pedicel, between the second and third, may be a very small 

 joint, (of which I am convinced, giving really 8 joints in all,) but of its exist- 

 ence I am not certain by ocular demonstration, therefore I do not give it place 

 as a positive character. The numerous grooves in the antennae much resemble 

 the line of union of very short closely embracing segments soldered together, 

 and are doubtless primary rings of embryonic development. Length to the 

 tip of the wings about -07 inch. 



Female yellow, tumid ; abdomen gradually tapering to a short point : clumsy, 

 making little or no progress on a smooth surface, somewhat variable in size, ap- 

 pearing, to the naked eye, not much unlike a yellow immature grain of common 

 purslane [Portuld,ca oleracea, L.) seed. Like the Termite, increasing in size and 

 fertility as pregnancy continues ; its average length being somewhere about 

 three-hundredths of an inch ; segments more conspicuous above and beneath 

 than on the sides ; the globular-ended, or knobbed hair-like digituli of the tarsi 

 plainly seeu projecting beyond all the feet about half their length, fornicate 

 cylindraceous ; also on each side of these, there is a prominent, accuminate, 

 hair-like spine, and between them a short spine of about, or somewhat less than, 

 half their length. Antennie 3-jointed, transversely rugose or imperfectly annu- 

 lose, nearly naked, sublinear, situated on the forehead in front of the eyes ; first 

 segment tumid or subglobose, short, of much the greatest diameter; second 

 short, intermediate in diameter between the first and third, with a small spine 

 anteriorly ; third exceeding the first and second in length, subfusiform, the 

 obliquely pointed apex shortly bifid ; eyes small, few facets. Promuscis aris- 

 ing from about the anterior fifth, in a thick reclining stump-like base ; sheath 

 t.hree-jointed (?), usually lying on the breast. 



Larva somewhat depressed, elongate-elliptical, in the field of view from 

 above ; moderately active, yet slow when compared with other insects ; in the 

 field of a microscope of low power it can be examined with a good degree 

 of satisfaction before it travels beyond the field of view ; color light yellow- 

 prasinous ; feet and antennae as in the perfect female. 



Effff prolate spheroidal ; length about 2 J times the width ; pale greenish- 

 white; to the naked eye visible only as a fine dust point. 



Pupa of the male somewhat longer and more slender than the mature female, 

 browner; legs longer, much more active; the short, brown, imperfect wings 

 diverging obliquely down the sides; antennae as in the mature female. 



Gall. — The vitifolim gall always opens on the upper side of the leaf, while the 

 gall of Dactylosphsera c/lobosum, on the leaf of the Pig-Nut Hickory, {Canja 

 glabra), always opens on the lotver side, and both are alike in being free from 

 any of the sugary dust, so common amoug the gall-producing Aphidse. It is 

 subglobular, quite rough on the outside, and of variable size, according to the 

 age, &c., well developed galls attaining the size of a pea. They are often very 

 numerous, almost covering the leaf, and in many cases the leaf is destroyed be- 

 fore the gall becomes fully developed ; occasionally they are located on the 



thin cellular tissue connecting the two walls of the wing-bag. These are facts that I helieve 

 worth recording; otbeis may receive them for what they are worth in classification. I cau fee 

 here somewhat satisfactorily the same plan of neiiration, in an embryonic state, as given for the 

 genus Dadi/hspluim. and 1 will not be surprised if specimens yet be foiinil in a better state of de- 

 velopment. The wing neuratiou of Jkirh/lnsjilnu-a is synonymous with that of IkiiUnxera, (Piiic. 

 Ent. Society, vol. i.. p. 297, fig. 8,) it is therefore upon the other characters that I found thisgeuuH. 



18G7.] 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



leafstalks, tendrils and vine itself; these latter some authors are inclined to- 

 refer to a distinct species, but as they are associated with those on the leaf, and as 

 there is no observable anatomical difference between the egg, larva and female 

 of these and those on the leaf (as I have shown elsewhere), it is quite incon- 

 sistent to believe that there is a specific difference. The young larva leaves 

 the gall, usually, soon after being hatched and resorts to the tender leaf as it 

 is expanding from the bud, fixes its location, where it feeds by puncturing the 

 leaf and sucking the juices; this irritation causes an abnormal development of 

 the leaf and thus produces a cup or bottle-like excrescence or gall in which 

 the insect now developes to a mother and where she resides, laying eggs, during 

 the remainder of her life ; from 50 up to even 5000 eggs may be found with her 

 at once and one female may be the progenitor of many millions in one season, 

 even 10,000,000,000.000,000, as I have shown in the Practical Entomologist, vol. 

 2 pao-e 17. Sometimes a few of the female larvje, from some cause, appear to 

 remain in the gall until maturity ;* at other times the galls are so closely located 

 that two or three are blended into one irregular gall, with as many primary pa- 

 rents. This disposition to, in a measure, form colonies, while the coccus spirit 

 of emigration also prevails, is another evidence that this insect forms the con- 

 necting link between the Aphidse and Coccidx. Much might be said regarding 

 these calls, their enemies, &c., but they have been in a measure recorded in 

 various publications. 



HOW TO CONOrCT EXAMINATIONS. 



The antennje of these insects can easily be examined with a common botan- 

 ical microscope, as I have often done ; for this purpose the young larva is as 

 o-ood or perhaps better than an old female, but it travels so rapidly that it is 

 fmpossible to keep it long enough in the field of a good microscope to make a 

 satisfactory examination of the feet — the all-important organs in family classi- 

 fication here ; and if on the back the incessant motion of the legs, sweeping 

 through the field of vision so rapidly, gives a very poor and unsatisfactory 

 view. But for a thorough examination I must insist on putting thte living 

 insect under a o-ood microscope, and although the pregnant female is a clumsy, 

 globular looking mass, with the legs apparently so close on the body as to be 

 nearly out of view, yet I fi.nd it the best state for examination, and it will lie 

 on its belly, side or back, as we may place it, long enough to examine it care- 

 fully, especially when pretty cool ; if we place it on the side or back we can 

 get a very good view of the feet, and we can see to good advantage the digituli, 

 curved from above downward, and also the movement control that the insect 

 has over them, diverging, approximating, elevating and depressing them ; under 

 a poor glass these will be mistaken for long slender claws, but the true claws 

 will be seen just beneath them, and when on the back or side with the leg pro- 

 jecting out leisurely from the body or sweeping through the field of vision, I 

 have watched them' for many hours without being able to solve the problem of 

 one or two claws, so close does the insect keep them when they are curved in 

 under the foot, as they always are when in these positions. But place it on its 

 belly on the smooth glass plate, and it vainly struggles without being able to 

 move from the spot ; it thrusts out its legs, and, as might be supposed, natur- 

 ally enough spreads every organ of the feet, over which it has muscular 

 control, to aid locomotion ; looking from above downward we see the long 

 hair-like digituli, with their globular ends, sweeping over the glass plate ; the 

 globe not becoming distorted or brushed off, we are convinced that it is not a 



* I would here raise the inquiry, inasmuch as winged males are so very rare, may not some of 

 these supposed females be apterous males, especially in those perfectly round galls, apparently 

 made by one mother, wherein we often find several apterous lemale like imago, usually some- 

 what smaller than the one original parent of the coiony? Otherwise, how can we account for 

 the fertilization of the eggs that are to pass the winter ? Winged males certainly, on account of 

 their extreme rarity, do uot fertilize many; yet from appearances, their numerous enemies, their 

 ^reat liability to destruction from every cause, and with all their great abundance, many cer- 

 tainly must become fertilized from some source. This is a point yet open for investigation. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



liquid exudation, but a true solid member of the body ; its hair-like pedicel 

 may be seen occasionally to bend, thus proving its pliability ; the pedicels, as 

 well as the globes, are translucent, and without doubt are composed of the 

 same leathery structure as other parts of the skeleton, and in the cast skin they 

 appear as perfect as in the living animal ; these are remarkable appendages, en- 

 tirely unlike anything which we ordinarily see in the anatomy of insects. 

 Burmeister, in his admirable Manual of Entomology, so far as I at present have 

 it in remembrance from thorough study some years ago, fails to observe any- 

 thing of the kind, and I can only conjecture that their use is to enable this 

 small insect to climb with safety over the down of the tender grape leaf, 

 with which it is abundantly supplied, when the down and hairs are so long as 

 to prevent the ungues from reaching the bark. This instrument is admirably 

 adapted to lock tirmly between the projecting hair and down of plants, and 

 convey the insect through this forest of down with safety. The globe on the 

 end may also possibly be a gland, secreting a viscid substance, but of this I 

 have no ocular demonstration. On either side of these digituli we see a di- 

 verging spine nearly equalling them in length, and between them we see a short 

 stub or spine-like body, less than half their length. I have not minutely ex- 

 amined this, haA-ing onlj- seen it in the field from above ; it may probably be 

 the spurious claw — pseudonychia of Burmeister, or undeveloped digituli. Be- 

 neath these the claws, one on each side, can be plainly seen widely spreading 

 on the smooth glass as the insect vainly struggles to move forward ; these 

 claws are much curved, short, and comparatively thick and strong, appearing 

 light horn-colored under a good achromatic microscope. 



With such an armor as this we cannot help viewing with admiration the 

 wonderful adaptability of nature to the wants of so frail a creature ; by the 

 means of the four-fingered and two-clawed hand, as it were, alone, it can travel 

 with as much safety from the parent gall, far below on the vine, up over the 

 forests of do\vn that it may encounter on the plant in its progress to the tender 

 bud, as the monkey travels over the tops of the trees in the dense jungles of 

 tropical climes ; without these, amidst the atmospheric storms, it must fail to 

 reach the tender bud, w-liere alone it is able to construct a new gall and repeat 

 the work of its parent and fulfil the unworthy object of its being. 



While the insect is on its back, to examine the tarsi, promuscis, &c., you 

 will not fail to observe the manual dexterity displayed as it seizes hold of the 

 promuscis and setaj, with this hand-like oi'gan, and pulls them away to one 

 side as it struggles and kicks in the vain effort to right its position. Perfectly 

 at home in the snug tenement — its gall — it is almost as unhappy on the hard 

 smooth glass-plate of a microscope as a fish is on dry land, unwillingly a mar- 

 tyr to science. 



To examine the nature of the articulations you will prefer a larva; they are 

 very imperfect, appearing externally like a mere thinning of the leathery struc- 

 ture of its limbs, with no well-defined line of union between the tibia and 

 tarsus ; this dermal membrane about the joint wrinkles as it bends the organ 

 in locomotion ; the lower end of the tibia projects into a prominent heel on 

 which it treads heavily. 



I believe that the females are never winged in any season of the year, if they 

 are in the spring they are not much used. I see here grapes, not more than one 

 hundred yards from the vines, so completely covered with them, entirely free, 

 and have thus remained during three summers, while another cluster of grapes 

 taken in the early spring from among the atfected ones and planted at some dis- 

 tance in another direction, are in like manner atfected. This fact, in a measure, 

 is confirmatory of my former conjecture, that these insects probably survive the 

 winter in galls on the tendrils and vine stalk, or it may be occasionally that 

 the egg, falling into small crevices in the old bark, thus passes through the 

 winter. If there is any freezing of these eggs, the burying of the vine in the 

 earth and snow affords them protection. Now, as the leaves are falling, many 

 of the galls are full of eggs and very few of them arc hatching, and with the 



1867.] 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



increasing coldness of autumn it will cease altogether ; soon after falling the 

 leaf dries and consequently the gall shrinks and gapes open : thus many of the 

 eggs can fall out on the ground around the roots, and in this way chiefly do 

 they survive the winter. In transplanting they are conveyed with the earth 

 around the roots. In the early warm summer weather these eggs hatch and 

 the young louse, instinctively, resorts to the vine and ascends to the leaf in 

 quest of food. Thus they are perpetually preserved about the once affected vine 

 and removed from place to place in transplanting. 



Their natural enemies may hold them in check, but will never subdue them. 

 When they become too numerous to obtain a sufficient supply of their iosect- 

 food readily everywhere they die of starvation, while some of these lice are still 

 living in security enough to continue the species. Their enemies are numerous, 

 and I never go forth to investigate, even now at the end of long years of study, 

 without discovering something new and interesting Their natural history is 

 inexhaustible ; insignificant as it may seem to be, it is an object of the deepest 

 interest when we come to the examination with our eyes open to the truths 

 that develop around us and force themselves upon our consideration. 



The winged males are very rare, among the rarest of the rare, as I have found 

 by experience, at least in this region. I have opened more than ten thousand 

 galls and never saw btit four winged imagos ; one I found late in September of 

 last year, and three during the present autumn : two were somewhat imperfect 

 but useful material for examination ; two I took from one gall a few days ago, 

 one of them was entirely perfect, it was an admirable specimen for examina- 

 tion ; it enabled me to get the precise position of the wings in repose. They 

 are very liable to be crushed or injured in opening the galls, because it is ne- 

 cessary to open them rapidly to make any progress, and a very little water 

 entering a gall causes the wings to adhere, frail membranes as thej' are, and 

 greatly damages them. I also found three, male pupfe and a parent female and 

 eggs in a gall. I failed to raise either of these pupae ; they soon perished after 

 the gall was removed from the vine, refusing to leave the old drying gall for 

 fresh ones placed beside them. 



Having thus found four male imagos and seen the pupa, there appears to be 

 no further good reason why I should longer delay the publication of my sup- 

 posed new genus and family and my observations, except that I wish to forward 

 a supply of them to learned societies, but as they are so exceedingly rare it 

 appears like hoping against hope. 



As this is a very common insect it needs a common name, and I think no 

 better could be given it than that suggested in the Prairie Farmer^ (^ug. 4. 

 1866.) — ''Grape leaf louse." 



Mount Carroll, Ills., Oct. 8, 1866. 



XoTE. — My description and the details of my observations of these insects 

 may appear quite prolix, but on account of the various erroneous opinions held 

 by popular authors regarding them, I have been induced to give a pretty 

 minute description of the insects in their different states, and the method of 

 conducting my observations, so that others may the more readily verify them, 

 from even larva and females, my only object being the development of truth. 



Dr. Fitch locates them in the Aphis family, while Mr. Walsh classes them 

 among the Coccida' ; they appear nearer the former than the latter. But the 

 " grape leaf louse " certainly bears no generic resemblance to Pemphigus as 

 Fitch declares, doubtless, without observation, which is hardly excusable in 

 even the most popular writers. 



For what reason, if any, Mr. Walsh could have announced, in the Practical 

 Entomologist, vol. i., p. Ill and 112, that the Vitifolive gall "is the work of an 

 insect, not of a plant-louse, however, as Dr. Fitch supposed, but as I have re- 

 cently ascertained, of a true bark-louse belonging to the Coccus family ;" and 

 in further allusion to his three gall-making bark-lice tinqualifiedly assures us that 

 " any entomologist by examining either the vitifoliie (insect) of Fitch, which 1 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. H 



find on the wild Vitis cordifolia and on the tame Clinton grape-vine, or the 

 gall cari/xvense of Fitch, which I find exclusively on the leaves of the Shellbark 

 Hickory (^Canja alba), and the third — an undescribed gall, the size of a cabbage 

 seed, on the leaves of the Pig-nut llickoi-y {Cari/a fflabra) may easily satisfy 

 himself that the mother-louse inhabiting them does not belong to the Aphis 

 but to the Coccus Family," &c., &c., without telling us how to become satisfied that 

 a plainh/ rwo-clawed tarsus beloriffs to the Coccus family, is quite incomprehensi- 

 ble, and certainly utterly at variance with their true anatomical characters. My 

 paper discusses two of these supposed bark-lice, and I believe that the third is of 

 the same character. Dr. Fitch's '•'■ rashness " is here fairly paralleled by the 

 accuser himself, in the same paper, by "fixing the famili/ to which a particular 

 larva belongs," as I have abundantly demonstrated. H. S. 



Feb. bth. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty seven members present. 



Feb. 12(h. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty members present. 



The death of R. Kennicott, member, was announced. 



Feb. 19fh. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Forty-four members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" A list of introduced plants, growing in waste ground below the 

 Philadelphia Xavy Yard, &c." By Aubrey H. Smith. 



" On the Habits of the Cutting Ant of Texas." By G. Lincecum. 



The following deaths were announced : 



William Norri^, a member, on the 5th of January ; Brackenridge 

 Clemens, M. D., of Easton, Pa., a correspondent ; Prof. Alexander 

 Dallas Bache, a member, at Newport, K. I., on the 17th inst. 



Dr. H. Allen directed the attention of the members to some features of interest 

 in the conformation of the mammalian skull, based upon examinations of 

 specimens in the Academy's collection. 



Having noticed in the skull of a Kronian negro, in the Wistar and Hor- 

 ner Museum of the University of Pennsylvania, the absence of union between 

 the greater wing of the sphenoid bone (alisphenoid) and anterior inferior 

 angle of the p^irietal bone, and in its stead a union at that point between the 

 temporal and frontal bones, he was desirous of a-^certaining to what extent 

 the variation would be found present in a series of crania. With this object 

 examinations of the human skulls, eleven hundred in number, were made, 

 when the variety was found present in twenty three. With these it was 

 thought to be the result of deficient developement of the great wing of the 

 sphenoid bone, an interspace being left which was occupied by a process of 

 the temporal sent forwards and upwards to articulate with the frontal bone. 



1867.] 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



This was rendered probable from the occasional occurrence of "Wormian 

 bones near the site of union. In five specimens out of the twenty-three 

 Wormian bones were found placed between the squamo-parietal and squarao- 

 frontal sutures, but more often in the former locality, when they were often 

 associated with similar bones situated at the temporo-occipital region The 

 extent of the suture was subject to much variation ; in some specimens it was 

 an inch long and well marked, in others it was reduced to a mere point. In 

 three specimens it was found on one side, the spheno-parietal being present 

 o-n the other. In yet another the temporo-frontal was seen on one side and 

 the spheno-parietal with Wormian bones on the other. 



The whole number of specimens was distributed among the varieties of men 

 as follows : 



Anglo-Saxon, Pelasgic, Swede, Chinese, Hindu, Bengalese, Mandan, Semi- 

 nole Indian, Blackfoot Indian, Iroquois, and Esquimaux, each one. The re- 

 maining twelve were negro. 



This observation lead to the examination of the skulls of the mammalia, 

 the result being as follows : 



Spheno-parietal suture. Temporo-frontal suture. 



Simla morio, Troglodytes niger, 



Simla satyrus, ex, Hylobates, 



Semnopithecus, Cercopithecus, ex, 



Catarrhini, Plattyrrhini, 



Lemcrid^, Bison, 



Marsupialia, Bos, 



Carnivora, Tragus, 



Cetacea, Tapirus, 



Sirenia, Rhinocero3, 



Ruminantia, ex, Sus, 



Choeropsis, Equus, 



Hyrax, Rodentia, 



Dicotyles. Edentata, 



Troglodytes gorilla, Hypsiprymnus. 



In the anthropoid apes it was found that the temporo-frontal suture was 

 constant in the skull of all the species excepting S. morio and one specimen 

 of S- satyrus. Prof. Owen* mentions the spheno-parietal articulation in S. 

 satyrus, and considers it a distinctive character of Simla ; but in the skull of 

 a young individual examined, the suture was indubitaljly temporo frontal. 

 Out of seventeen specimens of Cercopithecus in the collection seven had the 

 spheno-parietal articulation. In two of these it was spheno-parietal on one 

 side, temporo-frontal on the other. 



In the Ruminantia the alisphenoid was very slightly developed, the union 

 being effected by the external angular process of the parietal growing down- 

 wards in a long falciform extension. This was seen to be a conspicuous 

 feature in the skulls of this order. The variation noticed in Bison, Bos and 

 Tragus, had its origin in the first two genera in the unusual development of 

 the frontal bone backwards and outwards, reaching the temporal bone by 

 cutting off, as it were, the descending process of the parietal. In the last, 

 one specimen only was examined ; the spheno-parietal union was complete 

 on one side, while the temporo-frontal was but faintly determined on the 

 other. It was thought probable that the skulls of young individuals of th^-se 

 genera would show upon examination the same plan of construction in this 

 particular as others of the order. 



The suture was seen to be invariable in Carnivora, Cetacea, Sirenia, Eden- 

 tata and Rodenlia; but inconstant among the members of Marsupialia 

 and the Cuvierian order Pachydermata. Among the marked contrasts here 

 observed were those between Sus and Dicotyles, Hyrax and Rhinoceros. 



* Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. i., 1835, 368. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



From the early obliteration of all cranial sutures in Cheiroptera and Insec- 

 tivora — many young individuals of the former order were examined — nothing 

 definite was ascertained concerning them. It is reasonable to suppose that 

 they resemble the Carnivora. 



Dr. Allen further spoke of a distinguishing feature between the skulls of 

 the new and old world monkeys. In the former there is no bony external 

 meatus; in the latter there is a well defined osseous tube as in man. He also 

 invited attention to an interesting feature in the skull of a young Chimpan- 

 zee, in which it was found that the lachyrmal and ethmoid bones were sepa- 

 rated from one another by an ascending process of the orbital plate of the 

 superior maxilla, which articulated with the internal angular process of the 

 frontal bone. The peculiarity had not been seen in any ape, though a human 

 skull in the collection (Esquimaux) exhibited it. 



It was thought that the subject of sutures was of interest from an anatom- 

 ical stand-point and might, after more extended comparison, prove of value 

 in classification. 



A letter was read from Dr. Charles M. Wetherill as follows : 



Bethlehem^ Pa., Feb. 16th, 1867. 

 Wm. S. Vaux, Esq. : 



Dear Sir, — Will you do me the favor to communicate to the Academy the 

 following results, which I have reached m an investigation (not yet completed) 

 upon the Itacolumite. 



The so-called flexible character of this sandstone is universally attributed to 

 the mica which it contains. I have succeeded, beyond a doubt, in establish- 

 ing the fact that the said motion is due to innumerable ball and socket joints. 

 This wonderful molecular grouping warrants, I think, the suggestion of " a/-</- 

 culites" as a generic name for this class of sandstones. I succeeded in first 

 observing the play of these joints upon their sections under the microscope, 

 taken in three planes relative to the plane of stratification. It is, however, 

 unnecessary to incur the labor of preparing such sections; the motion may be 

 perceived with any fragment by examination with the microscope, moving the 

 loose particles in the joints with the needle point, or removing the said parti- 

 cles, thus dissecting the specimens. 



The joints are not similar to those observed in columns of basalt. The 

 fragments of quartz are very small and very sharp; twenty, thirty or more of 

 these sand particles are cemented to each other to form in-egular compound 

 molecules. The protuberances of these are engaged in the cavities of neigh- 

 boring groups, and so irregular and abundant is the jointing, that a slight 

 motion is permitted in any direction. 



A long thin rod of the sandstone may be twisted, elonetated, compressed 

 longitudinally, or bent nearly equally in any direction. When suspended by 

 its extremities, the rod takes the form of a curve which very nearly approaches 

 a true catenary. My friend and colleague. Prof. E. W. Morgan, of the Lehigh 

 University, is, at my'request, studying tlie exact nature of the curve thus formed. 



The specimens examined are from two localities; from Mines Geraes in Bra- 

 zil, a specimen in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution ; and another 

 from Stokes Co., N. C. An analysis of the latter showed a large proportion of 

 silicic acid, and the cement, if it be one, which unites the grains of sand, is not 

 ferruginous, as was shown by boiling a thin section, during a considerable 

 period, with hydrochloric acid. 



I would be very much obliged to you (or to any member of the Academy,) 

 if you would furnish me with specimens of Itacolumite from diflferent locali- 

 ties for this investigation. 



I have thought that the establishment of the curious molecular character of 

 this mineral might lead to a knowledge of the physical conditions by which it 

 was effected and perhaps throw light upon that vexed question, the origia of 

 the diamond. Very truly yours, 



Charles M. Wethbrill. 



1867.] 




14 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Feb. 2Qth. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-eight members present. 



The resignation of Dr. H. C. Wood as Kecording Secretary was ac- 

 cepted. 



Joseph Jeanes tendered his resignation as Corresponding Secretary, 

 which was accepted. 



Resignations of membership were tendered by James Starr and J. 

 Heintzleman, and were accepted. 



A communication was received announcing the organization of the 

 Conchological Section of the Academy, and the election of its officers. 



Dr. Harrison Allen was elected Corresponding Secretary of the 

 Academy for the remainder of the year, and Dr. S. B. Howell, Record- 

 ing Secretary, for the same period. 



The following were elected members : 



Kvan Randolph, Francis R. Cope, Joseph Patterson, Richard M. 

 Marshall, Benjamin Marshall, John Livezey, Charles H. Borie, Thomas 

 P. Cope, Miss R. A. Cope, Mrs. E. H. Yaux, Joseph S. Levering, Jr., 

 Samuel P. Carpenter, Richard R. Robb, \Villiam Hacker, Stephen 

 Colwell, Miss Ann Haines, Miss Jane R. Haines. F. L. Bodine, Horace 

 M. Bellows, M. D., John G. Stetler, M. D., William Procter, Jr., and 

 Anthony Heger, M. D., U. S. A. 



The election fur Standing Committees, deferred from the last busi- 

 ness meeting, was held with the foUowinoj result : 



ETHNOLOGY. 



J. AiTKEN Meigs, 

 S. S. Haldeman, 

 F. V. Hayden. 



COMP. ANAT. AND GEN. ZOOLOGY. 



Joseph Leidy, 

 Harrison Allen, 

 S. B. Howell. 



MAMMALOGY. 



J. H. Slack, 

 E. D. Cope, 

 Harrison Allen. 



ORNITHOLOGY. 



John Cassin, 

 Spencer F. Baird, 

 B. A. HooPEs. 



HERPETOLOGY AND ICHTHYOLOGY. 

 Edward D. Cope, 

 S. Weir Mitchell, 

 Charles Shaeffer. 



BOTANY. 



Elias Durand, 

 Aubrey H. Smith, 

 H. C. Wood, Jr. 



MINERALOGY. 



William S. Vaux, 

 S. R. Roberts, 

 Albert Leeds. 



GEOLOGY, 



Isaac Lea, 

 F. V. Hayden, 

 T. A. Conrad. 



PALAEONTOLOGY. 



T. A. Conrad, 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 F. V. Hayden. 



PHYSICS. 



Robert Bridges, 

 Robert E. Rogers, 

 Jacob Ennis. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



CONCHOLOGY. LIBRARY. 



George W. Tryon, Jr., Joseph Leidy, 



K. R. Beable, John Cassin, 



C. F. Parker. Robert Bridges. 



/?i"V TOMOL OGY AND CR USTA CEA. PR CEE DINGS. 



John L. Le Conte, Joseph Leidy, 



J. H. B. Bland, William S. Vaux, 



Tryon Reakirt. John Cassin, 



Robert Bridges, 

 George W. Tryon, Jr. 

 On favorable report of the respective committees, the following were 

 ordered to be published : 



On Colonies of PLANTS observed near Philadelphia, 

 BY AUBREY H. SMITH. 



During the years 1864, 1805 and 18156, a large number of introduced plants, 

 chiefly southern, were found growing on the waste grounds below the Phila- 

 delphia Navy Yard, and at Kaighn's Point and Petty's Island, on the oijposite 

 shore of the Delaware. 



It has been thought by those who were engaged in the work of collection, 

 that some account of these localities and a list of the plants themselves should 

 be placed at the command of students investigating the subject of the introduc- 

 tion and naturalization of plants. To meet this view I have prepared the fol- 

 lowing pages. 



The city of Philadelphia is built on a low gravelly bluff, extending along the 

 right bank of the Delaware with little interruption from Kensington on the 

 north to the Navy Yard on the south. It is scarcely practicable now to define 

 accurateh' the limits of this blutf, but it may be stated, in general terms, that 

 above Kensington and below the Navy Yard, it recedes from the river, and its 

 place is supplied by tide marshes to a greater or less extent. Northward these 

 marshes have been largely filled up and built upon, but southward the low 

 margin of the river has been but partially reclaimed. 



Immediately below the Navy Yard, the rim of tide marsh does not exceed two 

 or three hundred yards in width. Further down the river it widens greatly, 

 and has been banked in for agricultural and grazing purposes. Between the 

 .Vavy Yard and the banked meadows, the tide flats have awaited the slow de- 

 mands of commerce for their utilization. 



The first step to the reclamation of the flats is the extension of the lines of the 

 eastern streets to the line of low tide, and the building of bulk-heads of logs at 

 their extremities below low water mark. The streets thus extended are filled up 

 with waste earth from cellars and similar excavations, and thus causeways are 

 made out to the bulk-heads. Next, the bulk-heads themselves are extended 

 right and left to meet similar works from the ends of other streets. The wharf 

 line thus built is then conveniently secured by the deposit behind it of sand 

 and gravel ballast from coasting vessels, as well as of earth brought specially 

 for the purpose. Behind it, there will, of course, exist a pond or lagoon, to be 

 filled up from time to time, from the river or from the land, as materials may 

 offer themselves on either side of it. 



From Dickerson Street northward to the Navy Yard, the flats have been en- 

 tirely reclaimed, and coal wharves and ship yards occupy their jdace. South- 

 ward of this street, at the distance of six or seven hundred feet, an earthen em- 

 bankment extends Morris Street to the line of low water, and a bulk-head 



1867.] 




16 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



carried to the left connects this causeway with the reclaimed land at Dicker- 

 son Street. A pond, not now of more than three acres in extent, lies behind 

 the bulk-head, and communicates with the river by a covered sluice, through 

 which the tide ebbs and flows. Between the pond and the river are some two 

 acres of ground made by the deposit there, through manj- years, of sand and 

 gravel ballast from the coasters, and of mud from the cleansing of the docks 

 of the city. On the west and north the pond is f apidly diminishing in size, as 

 waste materials from the city are cast into it, and in a few years it will no 

 doubt wholly disappear. The marshes formerly existing above Dickerson 

 Street have been reclaimed by the same process, and those below Morris Street 

 will in time be dealt with in a similar manner. Upon the reclaimed land be- 

 hind the bulk-head between Dickerson and Morris Streets have been found the 

 greater part of the plants enumerated in this list. - This locality, which for 

 convenience we have called the Ballast Ground, did not exist fifteen years ago, 

 for the bulk-head which protects it from the river has itself been built within 

 that period. Some of the plants may, however, have existed in similar places 

 along the river for a long time. Muhlenberg, in his catalogue published in 

 1813, mentions Senebiera didyma and Cynodon Daclylon as plants of Pennsylvania, 

 though since his day they have only been found, so far as I have learned, at 

 or near this place. Salsola Kali is not rare in the waste grounds about Phila- 

 delphia, and Atriplex hastata, its maritime congener, is abundant in every neg- 

 lected out-lot. Pluchea camphorata and Aster linifoUus aje firmlj^ established in 

 a pool, at the foot of Tasker Street, not connected with the pond behind the 

 Ballast Ground and probably of much older date and different origin, whilst 

 Artemisia biennis is abundant in by-places for half a mile about. 



The unenclosed grounds below the Navy Yard are in some respects very 

 favorably situated for the growth of southern plants. The trend of the river 

 shore being south by west, the whole width of the city spreads between them 

 and the quarters from which the colder winds blow. Those of the north and 

 north-west must pass before reaching the Navy Yard for four or five miles over 

 houses and factories, the innumerable fires of which will at all times temper 

 their rigor, whilst the easterly, southerly and south-westerly winds are made 

 yet milder by the wide expanse of water over which they come. The ground 

 too being at the level of tide offers the most favorable conditions, so far as 

 elevation is concerned. 



I regret that it has not been in my power to obtain thennometrical observa- 

 tions from which a comparison might be made of the average temperatures, at 

 different seasons, of several points in a line running north-westwardly from the 

 Navy Yard to Girard College. From these we could learn whether or not the 

 causes I have indicated are able to produce sensible efl'ects on the vegeta- 

 tion at the margin of the river. Those at Girard College are all that are needed 

 for that station, but, there being no intermediate ones, they are of no avail for 

 the present purpose. 



Nearly opposite the Ballast Ground, on the New Jersey side of the river at 

 Kaighn's Point, is a large enclosed ship and timber yard, which presents con- 

 ditions somewhat similar to those of the locality just described. A portion of 

 the low ground at this place has been filled in and levelled out to the wharves 

 and bulk-heads, whilst another part of it remains nearly in its natural state. 

 From this enclosure come the most of the plants attributed in this list to 

 Kaighn's Point, though a few of them have been found without its limits. 



Petty's Island is a tract of reclaimed alluvion on the New Jersey side of the 

 Delaware, opposite the mouth of Cooper's Creek, which has been, to some ex- 

 tent, used of late years as a place of deposit for ballast, sand and other waste 

 and rough material. It was not known as a botanical locality of interest until 

 visited during the present year (18G6) by Mr. Isaac Burk. Since his discovery of 

 it, however, it has been constantly and carefully watched by him and other bo- 

 tanists, and the results of their observations are to be found herein. 



Both Kaighn's Point and Petty's Island share the advantages for the growth 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



aad naturalization of the plants of warmer climates which have been ascribed 

 to the Ballast Ground. Sheltered by the wide sweep of the city crescent from 

 the colder winds, they lie at the level of tide with the broad expanse of the 

 river, further to temper the atmosphere which reaches them. 



I have been thus minute in tiie description of these localities, in order not 

 only that the circumstances under which these cyrious colonies of strangers 

 have taken up iheir abode with us may be understood, but, in the anticipation 

 of their speedy destruction as the city extends its limits, and of the establish- 

 ment of similar ones elsewhere on its outskirts, that those who shall observe 

 such future settlements may have the means of tracing their history and 

 development. 



The Ballast Ground locality was discovered by Messrs. Diffenbaugh and 

 Parker in the latter part of the season of 1864; that at Kaighn's Point was 

 made known about the same time by the last named gentleman. Since then 

 the plants of those places, and in 1866 those of Petty's Island, have been care- 

 fully watched and collected by a number of botanists. Among these I may 

 especially mention Dr. Martin dale and Messrs. Burk, Diffenbaugh and Parker, 

 to each of whom I am indebted for some of the rarest in the list. 



All the plants have been sulnnitted to Prof. T. C. Porter, and the determina- 

 tions in all cases of difficulty have his full concurrence. Dr. Porter himself 

 shared the work of collection. 



It will be observed in many instances that the fruit has not matured, and in 

 some that not even the flower has appeared. This may not always have been 

 due to the shortness of the season, but sometimes to the late deposit of the- 

 sand or gravel with which the seeds have been brought from the south. 



A small number of the plants of 1864 did not re-appear in 1865, and some- 

 of those of 1865 were not found in 1866. One or two of them, threatened by 

 the frost before flowering or fruiting, were transplanted, and developed their 

 characters under glass. For this service we are indebted to Mr. Kilviugton 

 and Dr. Leidy. 



Many plants were found growing with those enumerated in the list, which 

 are regarded as introduced, but which are not strictly confined to the localities 

 above described. Some of these are rare and of limited distribution. Never- 

 theless, but few of them have been included herein, inasmuch as this list 

 is intended, in the main, to contain the names only of those which have not 

 hitherto been collected in the neighborhood of Philadelphia. At a subsequent 

 period, a supplemental catalogue may be given of such of these as shall be 

 deemed of interest. 



This list exhibits, as nearly as my information enables me to give it, the 

 actual state of the adventive flora of the several localities in each of the years 

 of collection ; but it is proper to say that the time which has elapsed since 

 their discover^" has been too short to justify any positive assertion as to the 

 completeness of the catalogue, or the appearance or disappearance of any 

 of the plants named in it. 



1. Erysimum orient ale, R. Br. (Brassica orientalis, L.) Three speci- 

 mens collected at Kaighn's Point in 1866. Fruit perfected. Adv. from 

 Europe, where it is widely distributed. 



2. Sinapis al b a, L. A single plant, collected on the waste grounds north- 

 west of the Ballast Ground by Mr. Diffenbaugh, on the 17th June, 1865. 

 Fruit perfected. Adv. from Europe. 



3. Senebiera d i d y m a, Pers. Ballast Ground and Kaighn's Point, Sept. and 

 Oct., 1864, 1865, 1866. Abundant and in mature fruit — rather less common in 

 the latter year. Hab. — North Carolina to Florida ; Chapman. Also waste 

 places at ports, &c., Virginia to Carolina — an immigrant from farther south ; 

 (Jray. 



1 807.] 2 




18 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



4. Senebiera Coro^opus, Poir. A single specimen collected on the 

 Ballast Ground bj Mr. Burke in 1865. Adv. from Europe. 



5. Cakile Americana, Nutt. Ballast Ground, Sept. and Oct, 1864, 

 1865. Very fe\y specimens. Uab. — Sea coast and Great Lakes ; Gray. 



6. Sagina subulata, Torr S^ Gray. {S. Ullioitii, Fenzl. ; Spergula subu- 

 lata. Swartz). 



Ballast Ground, 1865, 1866. Less frequent in the latter year. Fruit per- 

 fected in both seasons. These specimens, and others apparently of the same 

 species from Charleston, S. C, are glandular hairy on the peduncles and 

 calyx, — not smooth, as in S. E 1 1 i o 1 1 i i, according to Chapman. 



In the spring of 1865, Mr. Charles E. Smith collected at Somer's Point, N. 

 J., a slender form of S. subulata, which Dr. Gray regards as a variety, and 

 has called, from the discoverer, var. Smith ii. Dr. Gray now considers S. 

 Elliottii not distinguishable from S. subulata. 



7. Sesuvium Portulacastrum, L. Two small patches near the southern 

 end of the Ballast Ground, 1865. Fruit matured. JIab. — Sea coast of New 

 Jersey and Southward ; Gray. 



8. Sesuvium p e n t an d r u m, £'/L Petty's Island, 1866. Not frequent; 

 fruit perfected. JIab. — Sea coast, North Carolina to Florida ; Chapman. 



9. Portulaca pilosa, L. Petty's Island, 1866. Infrequent and with 

 fruit not fully developed, ffab. — Key West, Florida ; Chapman. 



10. Malvastrum trie usp idat um, Gray. PL Wright, Pt. L, p. 16. (M. 

 carp in if ol i u m. Gray. PI. Fendl., p. 22.) Two specimens with imper- 

 fected fruit collected by Mr. Burk and Diffenbaugh, on the Ballast Ground, in 

 1865. Dr. Porter has two specimens from the same locality with perfected 

 fruit. This plant is probably the Malva Americana of Muhlenberg's 

 Catalogue, p. 62, where it is recorded as growing in Pennsylvania. Hab. — 

 South Florida ; Chapman. 



11. Sida stipulata, Cav. A considerable number of plants scattered 

 over the Ballast Ground, Sept. and Oct., 1864, 1865. In flower and with fruit 

 nearly perfected. JIab. — Waste places about dwellings — Florida. According 

 to DC., this plant has naturalized itself in many parts of the world. 



12. Modiola multifida, Moench. Appeared in leaf only on the Ballast 

 Ground late in the autumn of 1865. It was transplanted by Mr. Kilvington, 

 and, placed under glass, produced its flowers and fruit in April, 1866. Hub. — 

 -North Carolina to Florida ; Chapman. 



13. Kosteletzkya Virginica, Presl. A few specimens collected on the 

 eastern margin of the pond, but none with mature fruit. Sept. and Oct., 



1865. Also at Kaighn's Point in the same year. Hab. — Marshes along the sea 

 coast, from Long Island southward ; Gray. 



14. Gossypium herbaceum, L. Eastern and western margins of the 

 pond. Oct., 1865, 1866. Flowers in both seasons, but no fruit. 



15. Trifolium Carolinianum, 3Ix. Ballast Ground, 1865. Abundant 

 and with perfect fruit Less frequent in 1866. Two specimens at Kaighn's 

 Point in the latter year. Hab. — North Carolina to Florida ; Chapman. 



16. Melilotus parviflora, Desf. {M. occidenlalis, Nutt.) Ballast Ground 

 and Kaighn's Point, 1865, 1866. Abundant and with mature fruit in both 

 seasons. Adv. from Europe into Western Texas and Mexico. (U. S. Boundary 

 Survey, Emory, Vol. II., p. 55.) 



17. Medicago maculata, Willd. Ballast Ground, collected Oct. 14, 



1866. Two specimens without flower or fruit. Adv. from Europe. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



18. Medicago denticulata, Willd. Ballast Ground, 1865, 1866. Rare, 

 fruit perfected, more frequent in the latter year. Adv. from Europe. 



19. Glottidium Floridanum, DC. A single plant collected on the 

 Ballast Ground, but more frequent at Kaighn's Point. Sept. and Oct., 1865. 

 One specimen at Petty's Island, Sept., 1866. Fruit not matured in any case, 

 JIab. — South Carolina to Florida ; Chapman. 



20. Sesbania macrocarpa, Muhl. Ballast Ground, Sept. and Oct., 1866. 

 Many specimens in full flower, but without perfect fruit. This plant and 

 Glottidivim Floridanum flowered about the 1st October, and were killed 

 by the frost before their fruit was matured. Hab. — South Carolina to Florida ; 

 Chapman. 



21. Ervum L e n s, L. Federal Street wha,rf, Camden. Collected by Mr, 

 Diff'enbaugh, August 6th, 1865. Rare. Adv. from Europe. 



22. Vigna glabra, Savi. Ballast Ground and Kaighn's Point, Sept. and 

 Oct., 1865, 1866. Abundant in both places, but not perfecting its fruit, 

 Hab. — Brackish marshes, from Florida to South Carolina ; Chapman. 



23. Cassia obtusifolia, //. Ballast Ground and Kaighn's Point, Sept. 

 and Oct., 1865, 1866. A few flowering plants, but the fruit not matured, 

 Hab. — North Carolina to Florida ; Chapman. 



24. Potentilla argentea, L. Collected at Kaighn's Point by Mr, 

 Parker, June 4, 1865, with ripe fruit. Also at the Ballast Ground in 1865 and 

 1866. This plant has been observed in previous years near Red Bank, N. J, 

 Hab. — Dry barren fields northward ; Gray. 



25. Potentilla anserina, L. Ballast Ground, 1865. A single specimen 

 collected in flower by Mr. Diffenbaugh. Hab. — Brackish marshes and river 

 banks, chiefly northward ; Gray. 



26. Ammania lati folia, L. Two specimens collected near the eastern 

 margin of the pond by Mr. Diff'enbaugh, Sept. 8, 1865. Fruit not matured. 

 Two from the same place by Mr. Burk in 1866, with perfect fruit. It was also 



collected by Mr. Parker at Kaighn's Point, in 1866, in good fruit. Hab. 



Ohio, Illinois, and southward ; Gray. 



27. ffinothera s i n u a t a, L., var. h u ra i f u s a, Torr and Gray. Sparingly 

 distributed on the Ballast Ground, Sept., 1866. Hab. — Drifting sands along 

 the coast ; Chapman. 



28. Gaura sinuata, Nutt.? Collected on the Ballast Ground by Mr, 

 Parker, Sept. 30, 1864. Fruit scarcely matured. 



29. Jussisea r e p e n s, L. Along the margin of the pond in several places ; 

 also at Kaighn's Point, 1864, 1865. In flower and with matured fruit. 

 Kaighn's Point, 1866. Fruit perfected. Also at Petty's Island, 1866, but 

 rare. Fruit perfected. Hab, — In water, Illinois, Kentucky and southward ; 

 Gray. 



30. Jussiaea leptocarpa, Nutt. Along the margin of the pond, 1865, 

 Several specimens, but the fruit not matured. Hah. — In marshes, Florida, and 

 westward ; Chapman. 



31. Jussisea decurrens, DC, Ballast Ground, 1865. Rare. Hab. — 

 Ditches, Florida to North Carolina, and westward ; Chapman. 



32. Leptocaulis divaricatus, DC. Ballast Ground, 1865. Several 

 specimens with perfected fruit. Kaighn's Point, 1866. Two specimens. 

 Hab. — Sandy soil, North Carolina to Florida ; Chapman. 



33. Asperula a r v e n s i s, L. Ballast Ground, 1866. A single plant col- 

 lected in flower, by Mr. Burk. Adv. from Europe. 



1867.] 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



34. Galium tricorne, Host. Ballast Ground, 1866. Collected by Mr. 

 Burk. Larger than the European form. Adv. from Europe. 



35. Diodia Virginica, L. Ballast Ground, 1865. Abundant and in per- 

 fect fruit. Hab. — Virginia and southward ; Gray. 



36. Oldenlandia glomerata, Mx. A single specimen from the Ballast 

 Ground, but more frequent at Kaighn's Point. Hab. — Western Pennsylvania 

 to Illinois, and southward ; Gray. 



37. Polypremum procumbens, L. Ballast Ground, Sept. and Oct., 

 1864 and 1865. Kaighn's Point, 1865, 1866. Abundant, fruit perfected. 

 Hab. — Sandy fields, Virginia and southward ; Chapman. 



38. Eupatorium fceniculaceum, Willd. Growing freely on both sides 

 of the river, Sept. and Oct., 1864, 1865. Scarcely so abundant in 1866. 

 Fruit not matured in either season. Hab. — Virginia, near the coast and 

 southward ; Gray. 



39. Eupatorium serotinum, Mx. At the eastern edge of the pond, 

 Sept. 30, 1865. Fruit not matured. Also at Petty's Island, Sept., 1866, in 

 flower only. Hab. — Illinois and southward ; Gray. 



40. Aster linifolius, L. At the foot of Tasker Street, in a pool west of 

 and not connected with the main pond. Abundant and in perfect fruit., Oct., 



1864, 1865, 1866. Hab. — Salt marshes, Maine to Virginia; Gray. 



41. Solidago sempervirens, L. Eastern margin of the pond, Oct., 



1865. More abundant in 1866 at the same place. Fruit matured in both 

 years. Hab. — Salt marshes, Maine to Virginia ; Gray. 



42. Hetherotheca s c a b r a, DC. Abundant on both sides of the river in 

 Sept. and Oct., 1864, 1865, and 1866. Fruit matured. Rather less plentiful 

 in 1866 than in the former years. Hab. — Sandy places along the coast of 

 South Carolina and westward; Chapman. 



43. Pluchea camphorata, DC. In the pool at the foot of Tasker 

 Street, and at Kaighn's Point, Sept. and Oct., 1864, 1865, 1866. Also along 

 the eastern margin of the main pond in the latter year. Abundant and in per- 

 fect flower and fruit. Hab. — Salt marshes, Massachusetts and southward ; 

 Gray. 



44. Pluchea foetid a, DC. Kaighn's Point, 1865. Collected by Mr. 

 Parker, in flower only, on the 21st Sept. Hab. — Ohio to Illinois, and south- 

 ward ; Gray. Florida and northward ; Chapman. 



45. Iva frutescens, L. Several specimens, collected in leaf along the 

 western margin of the pond, Sept. and Oct., 1865. Hab. — Sea coast, Mass., 

 and southward ; Gray. 



46. Parthenium Hysterophorus, L. Ballast Ground, Sept., 1864. 

 Two specimens collected by Messrs. Parker & DifFenbaugh, in flower and 

 young fruit. Kaighn's Point, 1866, — a single plant. Hab. — East and South 

 Florida ; Chapman. 



47. Helenium quadridentatum, Labill. Ballast Ground, Oct., 1864. 

 Rare. In flower and young fruit. Rather plentiful at Petty's Island in 1866. 

 Hab. — North Carolina and westward ; Gray. 



48. Centaurea Calcitrapa, L. Kaighn's Point, 1865. Scarce. Hab. — 

 Norfolk, Va. ; Gray. Adv. from Europe. 



49. Artemisia biennis, Willd. Abundant in waste places, for half a mile, 

 about the Navy Yard, 1864, 1865, 1866. Also at Petty's Island in the latter 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



3'ear, but not so plentiful. This plant, in full growth, is very much branched. 

 Hab. — River banks, Ohio to Illinois, and northward ; Gray. 



50. Leontodon autumnale, L. Kaighn's Point, August, 1865, 1866. 

 Petty's Island in the latter year. Rare. Fruit perfected. Nat. from Europe. 



51. Pyrrhopappus Carolinianus, DC. Ballast Ground, 1864, 1865. 

 Scarce. Kaighn's Point, 1866, — a single specimen only. Hab. — Sandy fields, 

 from Maryland, southward ; Gray. 



62. Plantago heterophylla, Nutt. Ballast Ground and Kaighn's Point, 

 1865, 1866. Abundant in 1865. Less frequent in the latter year. Fruit 

 perfected. Hab. — Maryland and Southward ; Gray. 



53. Anagallis arvensis, i., var. coerulea. Ballast Ground, 1866. 

 A single specimen collected by Mr. Burk. Nat. from Europe. 



54. Collinsia parvi flora, Dougl. Ballast Ground, 1865. A single 

 specimen collected in fruit by Mr. Burk. Hab. — South shore of Lake 

 Superior, and thence westward ; Gray. 



55. Herpestis Monniera, H. B. K. Petty's Island. Collected by Mr. 

 Burk in flower and mature fruit, on the 21st October, 1866. Hab. — Maryland 

 and southward along the coast ; Gray. 



56. Conobea multifida, Benth. Ballast Ground and Kaighn's Point, 

 Oct., 1865. Also at Petty's Island, 1866. Rare and in perfect fruit. Hab. — 

 Ohio to Illinois, and southward ; Gray. 



57. Gerardia purpurea, Z., var. fasciculata. Ell. Ballast Ground, 

 1864, Oct., 1866. In flower and fruit. Hab. — Sea coast, South Carolina to 

 Florida ; Chapman. 



58. Verbena bracteosa, Mx. Kaighn's Point, 1866. In flower only. 

 Scarce. Hab. — River banks, Wisconsin to Kentucky, Gray. 



59. Calamintha nepeta, Link. Ballast Ground, 1864. Two specimens 

 collected in flower by Mr. Parker. Nat. from Europe, in Virginia and south- 

 ward. 



60. Heliotropium Europium, L. Ballast Ground, 1864, 1865. A 

 single specimen collected by Mr. Parker in 1864. In 1865 several additional 

 ones in flower only. Maryland, Virginia, &c. ; Gray. Nat. from Europe. 



61. Heliotropium Curassavicum, i. Ballast Ground, 1865. A single 

 plant growing in calcareous sand. Abundant and in full fruit at Petty's 

 Island in 1866. Hab. — South Florida ; Chapman. 



62. Nama J ama ic e ns i s, X. Ballast Ground, 1865. A single specimen 

 in fruit. Hab. — South Florida; Chapman. 



63. Batatas littoral is, Chois. Ballast Ground, Oct. 9, 1865. Several 

 plants in early flower, but without fruit. Also in 1866, but without flowers. 

 Hab. Sea coast, Florida to South Carolina ; Chapman. 



64. Ipomea tamnifolia, L. Ballast Ground, Sept. 7, 1865. A single 

 specimen collected in flower by Mr. Burk. Hab. — South Carolina to Florida ; 

 Chapman. 



65. Dichondra r e p e n s, Forst., var. Carolinensis, Chois. Petty's Island. 

 Collected by Mr. Difi"enbaugh, Oct. 21, 1866, without flower or fruit. Not fre- 

 quent. Hab. — North Carolina to Florida ; Chapman. 



66. Petunia parviflora, Juss. (Ann. Mus. 2, p. 216, t. 47.) Ballast 

 Ground, Sept., 1864, 1865. Rather freciuent. Also in 1866, but very scarce. 

 Abundant at Petty's Island in the latter year. Hub.— Lower Rio Grande and 



1867.] 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Mexican States, westward to California. (U. S. Boundary Survey, Emory, YoL 

 ii., Part i., p. 155.) 



67. Roubieva m ul t i f i d a, Moquin. Ballast Ground, 1865. Sparingly dis- 

 tributed throughout the central portion of the ground. Fruit matured. Adv. 

 from tropical America, 



68. Obione a r e n a r i a. J/ogwm. Ballast Ground, 1865. A few specimens 

 with ripe fruit. Also in 1866 but scarce. Hab. — Sea coast, from Massachusetts 

 Southward; Gray. 



69. Chenopodina m a r i t i m a, Moquin. Ballast Ground, 1864 — 1865. Not 

 frequent. Fruit perfected. Hab. — Salt marshes along the coast ; Gray. 



70. Euxolus pumilus, Raf. Ballast Ground, 1865. A single specimen 

 collected in flower by Mr. DifiFenbaugh. Hab. — Sea coast from Long Island 

 Southward ; Gray. 



71. Polygonum m i n u s, 5!<r/sora. Ballast Ground, 1866. Collected by Mr* 

 Burk. Scarce. Adv. from Europe. 



72. Euphorbia polygonifolia, L. Ballast Ground. Rare and not in 

 flower in 1865. In 1866 a single specimen in perfect fruit. Also at Petty's 

 Island in 1866, one plant. Hab. — Shores of the Atlantic and Great Lakes -, 

 Gray. 



73. Euphorbia herniarioides, Nutt. Ballast Ground, 1865. In fruit. 

 Petty's Island, Oct. 21, 1866, in fruit. Frequent. Hab. — Banks of the Ohio 

 and Mississippi Rivers ; Gray. 



74. Euphorbia Helioscopia, Z. Ballast Ground, 1864. A single speci- 

 men. Found elsewhere in Pennsylvania, though rare. Nat. from Europe. 



75. Euphorbia e xig u a, X. Kaighn's Point, 1866. Collected by Mr. Burk 

 in fruit. Scarce. Adv. from Europe. 



76. Acalypha gracilens. Gray. Ballast Ground and Kaighn's Point, 

 1865 — 1866. Rare in both years. Common southward. 



77. Croton glandulosum, i. Ballast Ground, 1864, 1865, 1866. Fre- 

 quent and in ripe fruit. More abundant in the last of these years. Hab. — Vir- 

 ginia, Illinois and southward ; Gray. 



78. Croton maritimum, Walt. Ballast Ground, 1865. Leaves only- 

 £Jab. — ^Drifting sands along the coast from North Carolina to Florida ; Chap- 

 man. 



79. Phyllanthus polygonoides, Nutt. Ballast Ground. A single spe- 

 cimen collected by Mr. Diffenbaugh, Oct. 1, 1865. Fruit scarcely perfected. 

 Hab. — Along the Rio Grande and westward in Mexico, (Boundary Survey, 

 Emory, Vol. II, p. 193.) 



80. Juncus articulatus, L., var. o b t u s,i o r, Engelm. Kaighn's Point and 

 Petty's Island, 1866. Not alaundant. J. a r ti cul a tu s has hitherto been 

 found in the United States only in New England and Western New York. 



81. Juncus nodosus,Z/, var. megacephalus, Tor. Ballast Ground and 

 Petty's Island, 1866. Not abundant. A northern plant not before found in 

 the vicinity of Philadelphia. 



82. Juncus b u f o n i u s, £., var. fasciculiflorus, Boiss. Ballast Ground, 

 1865! Frequent. Dr. Engelmann states this to be a southern form widely dif- 

 fused in intertropical regions. 



83. Juncus Gerar d i, iojseZ. Petty's Island, 1866. Not frequeut. Hab. — 

 Sea coast from New Jersey northward; Gray. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



23 



84. Cyperus fuscus, Z. Kaighn's Point, 1865. In matnre fruit. Adv, 

 from Europe. 



85. Cyperus Nuttallii, Torr. Ballast Ground, Sept. and Oct., 1865. 1866, 

 Abundant iu 1865, less so in 1866. Also at Petty's Island in 1866, but not 

 r&Tj frequent. Fruit matured in every case. Hab.—^'SaXt marshes from Massa- 

 chusetts southward ; Gray. 



86. Cyperus M ich a u x i an us, Schultes. Ballast Ground, 1864, 1865. 

 Frequent along the margins of the pond. Fruit perfected. Less common in 

 1866. Marshes especially along the coast, from New England southward ; 

 Gray. 



87. Cjperus rotundus, L, Tar. Hydra, Gray. Ballast Ground and 

 Kaighn's Point, Sept. and Oct., 1865, 1866. Abundant iu both places in 1865; 

 less frequent in 1866. Fruit matured, though most of the scales were empty. 

 Hah. — Sand}' soils along the coast from North Carolina to Florida; Chapman. 



88. Cyperus c o m p r e s s u s, L. Ballast Ground and Kaighn's Point, 1864, 

 1865, 1866. Frequent but least common in the latter year. Abundant at Petty'? 

 Island in 1866. Fruit perfected in each season. Found also in Maryland by 

 Mr. Canby. Hah. — Florida to North Carolina and westward; Chapman. 



89. Cyperus Baldwinii, Torr. Ballast Ground, 1864,1865. Frequent 

 in the sandy ground near the bulk-head, fruit perfected. Hah. — Florida to 

 North Carolina and westward. Chapman. 



90. Hemicarpha subsquarrosa, Nees. Petty's Island, Oct. 21, 1866. 

 Scarce. Fruiting perfectly. Not before found near Philadelphia. 



91. Lipocarpha maculata, Torr.- Petty's Island, Oct 21, 1866. Scarce. 

 Fruit perfected. Hah. — North Carolina to Florida ; Chapman. 



92. Fimbristylis s pad ice a, Vahl. Ballast Ground, 1865. Scarce, fruit 

 perfected. Hab. — Salt marshes along the coast from New York southward ; 

 Gray. 



93. Fimbristylis congest a, Torr. Ballast Ground and Kaighn's Point, 

 1865. Not scarce. In 1866 less common. Also at Petty's Island in 1866 

 but not frequent. Hab. — Florida and Westward; Chapman. 



94. Fuirena s qu a rr o s a. J/j;. Petty's Island, Oct., 1866. Scarce, fruit 

 not matured. (Kaighn's Point in 1818. Barton in Flor. Phil. p. 37.) Hab. — 

 Massachusetts and southward; Gray. 



95. Alopecurus geniculatus, Z. Ballast Ground. Collected by Dr. 

 Martindale in 1865. Not before found in Pennsylvania. 



96. Sporobolus In die us. Brown. Ballast Ground and Kaighn's Point, 



1865. Petty's Island, 1866. Not scarce, fruit perfected. The specimens from 

 Petty's Island are prostrate, as in many maritime plants. Hab. — North Caro- 

 lina to Florida; Chapman. 



97. Spartina juncea, WiUd. Ballast Ground, 1865, 1866. Sparingly dis- 

 tributed along the margin of the pond. Less frequent in the latter year. 

 Hab. — Salt marshes and sea coast; Gray. 



98. Eustachj-s petrjca, Desv. Ballast Ground, 1865. Leaves and im- 

 perfect fruit ; developed under glass by Ur. Leidy, it produced perfect fruit iu 



1866. Hab. — North Carolina to Florida along the coast; Chapman. 



99. Cynodon Dae ty 1 o n, Per.s. Fully naturalized and abundant through- 

 out the waste grounds below the Navy Yard. Also at Kaighn's Point, 1864, 

 1865, 1866. This plant was found at New Castle, Del., by Mr. C. K Smith, in 

 1864. A second form of it, nearly smooth and more robu.st, having pointed 



1867.] 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



paleae and the flowering culms included in their sheaths, grows sparingly along 

 the margins of the pond and elsewhere in the vicinity in damp places. Mr. 

 Burk has observed this second form for twelve or fifteen years past on the hard 

 dry surface of the Point Road below the old Southwark Canal. He states 

 it to have been more abundant in 186Gthan ever before. Ilab. — Pennsylvania 

 and southward ; Gray. Nat. from Europe. 



100. Dactyloctenium J3gyp t ia c um, Willd. Ballast Ground and Kaighn's 

 Point, 1864,1865, 1866. Common in both localities. Rather less frequent in 

 1866 than before. Hab. — Virginia, Illinois and southward; Gray. 



101. Leptochloa mucronata, Kunih. Kaighn's Point, 1865. Not fre- 

 quent. Hab. — Virginia to Illinois and southward ; Gray. 



102. Leptochloa fa s c i c u lar is, G'ray. Kaighn's Point, 1866. Collected 

 by Mr. Burk. Scarce. Hib. — Rhode Island and Southward along the coast ; 

 Gray. 



103. Glyceria d i s t a n s, Wahl. Spreading over the vacant lots west of the 

 Ballast Ground. Abundant. Hab. — Salt marshes along the coast; Gray. 



104. Brizopyrum s p i c a t u m, ^ooA. Ballast Ground, 1865, 1866. Stami- 

 nate plants only. Hab. — Salt marshes ; Gray. 



105. Paspalum distichum, Z. Ballast Ground, 1864, 1865, 1866. Along 

 the wet margin of the pond, in similar places at Kaighn's Point, and in 18G6 at 

 Petty's Island. Abundant and with mature fruit. Hah. — Virginia and south- 

 ward ; Gray. 



106. Panicum am arum, Ell. Ballast Ground, 1865. Two flowering spe- 

 cimens. Again in 1866, but only one or two plants not in flower. Hab. — 

 Sandy shores, Connecticut and southward ; Gray. 



The Cutting Ant of Texas— OECODOMA TEXANA, Buckley. 

 BY GIDEON LINCECUM. 



In many portions of Texas this species of ant is quite numerous and trouble- 

 some. It is callable of and actually does perpetrate more real perplexing in- 

 jury to the horticulturist and farmer, than all the other types of Texan ants 

 put together. In form and color the larger varieties of them do not differ in 

 appearance very much from the agricultural ants. A "great portion of our 

 citizens speak of these two ants without distinction, as being the same species. 

 There is, however, a well-marked difference in their community regulations: 

 in their manners and customs, in their mode of constructing their cities, in 

 their peculiar food and manner of preparing it, and in their civil and military 

 governments. 



There are five varieties or castes in this species, all of which may be seen in 

 the same community, or city as I prefer to call it. They vary in size from that 

 of a drone honey bee down to near that of the little black erratic ant ; and 

 their duties and vocations are as variant as their sizes. The largest size have 

 wings and are the mother ants. Thej^ dwell in the ground in sandy lands, and 

 one of their long established cities will, on an average, occupy at least two 

 square rods of surface. The area of the city is considerably elevated ; often 

 one to two feet, and sometimes even more. The earth which is thus thrown 

 up, and which is universally sand, is thrown out from their numerous and 

 capacious cells below, and from their extensive tunnels or subterranean 

 passages. To their cells they have many holes, or places of entrance, and 

 some of them are tunnelled off several hundred yards. 



It is known to many observant Texans that in all the larger cities the ants 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



have penetrated the earth to water. This accords with my not very limited 

 experience on the subject. I know of a number of wells which were inten- 

 tionally sunk in the cutting ant hills to procure water, and I have been in- 

 formed by the owners of these wells, that ant cells, tunnels and live ants were 

 found all the way down to the water. I have myself seen and drank water out 

 of eight of these wells, aud have accounts of many others. I have not heard 

 of a failure in any attempt for obtaining water by digging in a cutting ant 

 hill. 



Mr. G. W. Brooks states that, in Chappel Hill, Washington County, Texas, 

 Columbus Pearson dug a well in an ant hill and obtained plenty of water at 

 the depth of thirty feet. The facts in tliis case worthy of notice, aud for 

 which it is here recorded, is the manner in which the ants had also sunk two wells 

 to the water. These ant wells were large and well-formed, one of them being 

 fully twelve inches in diameter, the other six inches, both going straight down 

 to the water. The walls of these wells were travel-worn and stained of a dirty 

 brown color, presenting the appearance of having been in use for years. 

 Mr. Pearson states that, if these ant wells had been opened properh', a bucket 

 could have been let down the largest one at the outset. 



Dr. Fechtig, of Brenhain, informed me that he had been making observations 

 on the cutting ant for some months ; and some of his discoveries, which he 

 was kind enough to communicate to me, are valuable and of an interesting 

 character, particularly as they afford additional testimony in favor of observa- 

 tions I have made in reference to the disposition of the dirt which comes out 

 of their tunnels, &c. These passages are always commenced within the com- 

 pass of the city mound ; the sand that is taken from the tunnels is always thrown 

 back on the mound. These tunnels are made at the depth of eight to twelve 

 inches, and in the direction of the object for which they are excavated. Some- 

 times, as I will show presently, on extraordinarj- occasions they are carried at 

 a much greater depth. Dr. Fechtig's case, which I will now relate, was a tun- 

 nel from one of their cities to a neighboring well ; the tunnel entering the well 

 ten or twelve feet below the surface of the ground. The well being walled 

 with oak timbers, the ants had cut their way through to gain access to the 

 water. In performing the boring through the thick oaken curbing, they threw 

 down into the well so much saw-dust that the people were forced to strain the 

 water previous to using it. On examination Dr. Fechtig found that a quantity 

 of oak chips, similar to those which had been separated from the well water, 

 had also been thrown out on the ant mound. 



Situated in a garden at Austin, Texas, there was a large, very populous and 

 seemingly prosperous cutting ant citj'. The ants had for years, in spite of 

 many patent traps and newly discovered ant poisons, damaged the garden ex- 

 tensively. The proprietor of the garden at last conceived the idea that he 

 would try to drown them, and for this purpose dug a large basin-formed pit in 

 the ant mound, and led trenches into it right and left from the hillside above 

 the ant city, to convey the water into the basin when it should rain. Not long 

 after this preparation was completed, there came a tremendous rain storm. 

 Large quantities of water rushed along the ditches into the basin dug in the 

 mound. To the gentleman's surprise the basin did not fill, but seemed to send 

 forth hollow sounds. After the rain was over it was found that all the water 

 which had been conveyed into the basin had been swallowed up. There is a 

 creek with a flat rock bottom about seventy yards from the ant hill, and it was 

 discovered that the water from the trenches had rushed down the wells of the 

 ant city, washing out, down to the rock, (22 feet), an immense hole, thence 

 along a great tunnel on top of the rock, to the before named creek, where the 

 entire sluice, charged with millions of ants and sand and mud, made its escape 

 into the creek. 



Under a beautiful wide spreading live-oak (Q. Virens) on the west border of 

 the town of La Grange, Texas, there was an extensive and flourishing ant city. 

 The city mound was large, occupying the entire area overshadowed by the 



1867.] 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



live-oak. Nearly on a level and not exceeding eighty yards from the ant hill, 

 there was a considerable pond of filthy Trater, which, being in the street, the 

 town authorities ordered it drained. A ditch was opened along one side of the 

 street which intersected the ant mound near its center, and for the purpose of 

 inundating and drowning the ants, the workmen let the water into the ditch, 

 and when it reached the mound (which had been ditched through to its further 

 side) it found many open passages, down which it flowed quite freely. It was 

 near night when the workmen left it, with the water passing into and seeming 

 to be rapidly enlarging the hole it had already opened in the mound. 



The workmen and a number of the town people visited the place next morn- 

 ing. The pond was dry, and the ant mound had also disappeared ; and what 

 was more wonderful still, the large live-oak had settled down into the 

 chasm that had been made by the disappearance of tbe ant mound, until the 

 lower limbs of the tree were resting on the brink of it. (The lower limbs of a 

 prairie live-oak are seldom more than six or seven feet above ground.) The 

 outer ends of the veiy numerous live-oak roots were still clinging by their long 

 ramifications in the walls of the great pit all around, and the large tree was 

 swinging securely upon this net-work of roots as upon a hammock. But where 

 did the water, mound and ants all go to ? was the question among the La Grange 

 folks. The Colorado river passes in its deep channel three hundred yards dis- 

 tant from the ant hill, and the popular supposition was, that the mound, ants and 

 all, had passed through their great tunnel, which they had previously excavated, 

 into the river. Several years have gone by, and still when it rains the pond 

 vents itself through that ant chasm, and the live-oak, though still green and 

 thrifty, has settled deeper in the ground. I know of many other wells and tun- 

 nels that were made by the cutting ants, but as I have recorded a sufficient 

 number of them here to establish these great works as a characteristic trait in 

 their national action, it is deemed unnecessary to add any more. 



All the sand and other material that is seen piled on the ant mound comes 

 from the wells, tunnels and cells which are excavated for the accommodation 

 of the ants. The work required to throw up these quite conspicuous mounds 

 must have consumed many years, as well as an immense amount of labor. All 

 the sand-carrying labor is performed by the smaller sizes of ants, principally 

 by the very smallest. These are of a dingy brown color, and when crowded 

 have a woolly appearance. These little fellows are lazy and extremely slow in 

 their motion ; seeming to perform their daily work with great reluctance. They 

 are often found crowding in each others way about the gates of the city, and 

 do not seem to feel any interest in what they are doing, which is to carrj' sand 

 day by day. For their size they carry large loads, but they lose the advantage 

 of the big loads by their slow motions. The larger types of this species, which 

 move with greater celerity, pay no attention to the sand carriers, but pass out 

 and in, walking over them and their big loads of sand as if they were the pave- 

 ment. While I observe the slow, careless action of these lazy little mound 

 builders, I cannot avoid the conclusion that they are slaves. 



As the cutting ants perform their destructive works mostly during the night, 

 I have not made sufficient observation on their nocturnal action to state cer- 

 tainly that they employ their slaves in the leaf-cutting business at all. They 

 have large mandibles and sharp teeth, and I think it Itkely that they are capa- 

 ble and, perhaps, do participate in the labors and duties of all the departments 

 in the national works. The cutting ants subsist entirely on the leaves of vege- 

 tables. Tliey will eat the leaves of various trees, shrubs and some herbaceous 

 plants. I have not observed them eating of any of the grasses. Sometimes 

 during warm spells in winter when, as I suppose, their provision stores have 

 run short, I have seen them cutting and carrying home the buds of the long 

 moss (Tillandsia usneoides.) I think, however, that this alternative is resorted 

 to only in periods of great scarcity ; as I have never observed them collecting 

 the moss during summer, or at any other time while the season of green foliage 

 continues. They seem to have a regular and well disciplined corps of foragers, 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 27' 



and these, after a suitable tree has been selected by their scouts for them to 

 work at, go forth about twilight and, ascending the designated tree, frequently 

 the tallest willow-oak, (Q. phellos) commence the work of destruction. They 

 cut the green leaves into pieces not much less than a five cent piece, and seiz- 

 ing it near one corner with their capacious mandibles elevate it, and tilting it 

 backwards over the crown of the head, it falls edgewise between two strong 

 spines, or horns, which stand erect at the back part of the forehead. Having 

 their load thus adjusted, which, to the observer, seems to stand on its edge on 

 top of the head and lengthways with the body, thej- hasten away to the ap- 

 pointed place of deposit. It is quite an interesting sight to observe with what 

 precision and celerity they can edge their piece of leaf along amongst hundreds 

 of their fellow laborers who are all carrying similar burthens, while they are 

 meeting on the path an equal number of workers who are hurrying back to the 

 tree empty. 



They deposit the leaves on the ground at the place appointed for curing 

 them, where they are left to dry in the sun through the succeeding day. Some- 

 times the new cut leaves are deposited near the entrance to the city ; at other 

 times they are strewed thickly along the path from the tree to the citj^ ; and 

 not unfrequently they are thrown down in a pile near the root of the tree from 

 whence they were taken. In either case they are left exposed all day in the 

 sunshine ; und they are, duriug the succeeding night, carefully gathered up 

 and taken into the city ; this rule obtains in autumn ; they do not cure their 

 leaves until towards winter. All summer time they are carried directly from 

 the tree into the city. Whilst the dried leaves are being stored away, the 

 foragers are engaged in cutting and laying out a quantitj^ of fresh leaves, which 

 undergo the same processes of curing and storing as the previous lot ; and so 

 on through the season for storing up food for winter. But should a shower of 

 rain fall upon and wet the laid out leaves while they are out drying, it renders 

 them unfit for food, and they are not stored. I have noticed many piles of 

 these spoiled leaves rotting on the ground that had been damaged by being 

 caught in the rain. 



In my observations on the habits of the cutting ants, I have not discovered 

 them eating anything besides the foliage of various plants. Neither have I ever 

 noticed them carrying anything else into their cities. Prof. S. B. Buckley, who 

 is a very close and accurate observer, states that he saw them carrying hack- 

 berries (Celtis occidentalis) and that they eat insects, tumble bugs, &c. The 

 hackberry has a sweet pulpy covering, and I think it likely that if one of the 

 leaf-eating ants was to find a hackberry, it would try to carry it home ; but it 

 being a perfect globe, a little too large for the span of its mandibles, I see not 

 how it could effect it. As to their feeding on insects, I shall not pretend to 

 deny it, for these wonderful, cunning and very sagacious ants doubtless per- 

 form many habitual actions that have passed unnoticed in my eighteen years 

 observation. 



It is stated that this species of ant does not lay up stores of provisions for 

 winter supplies. I have not opened one of their cities during winter, and there- 

 fore cannot assert that they do. But from the immense quantities of leaves 

 collected by them during the autumnal months, which are carefully sun dried 

 and taken into the city, I should feel at a loss to say, if it is not intended for 

 winter food, what other use they can put such quantities of leaves to ; and 

 furthermore, when it is known to be the kind of food upon which they subsist. 

 It is also known that they construct cells from fifteen to twenty-five feet below 

 the surface — below the line of change of temperature, — and in these deep sub- 

 terranean apartments for their winter quarters, they would not become torpid, 

 but would remain active. Now, if during the -warm season it is necessary for 

 them to consume the almost incredible amount of leaves which we see them 

 daily carrying in, it becomes a matter of suri)risc — an unaccountable tiling in- 

 deed — how they can make out tlirough the winter months without anything to 

 eat, when we know that they are not in a torpid state but lively and active. 



1867.] 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



In this vicinity within the last two years, (1861) the cutting-ants hare greatly 

 diminished. Many large cities have dwindled away to a few thinly populated 

 holes : whilst many others are entirely depopulated. This, I think, is mainly 

 attributable to the protracted dry weather. With many other species, particu- 

 larly the agricultural and little black ants, long drouths seems to favor their 

 increase. Not so with the cutting ant. They evidenth- decline. A seven 

 years drouth would cause their wells to dry up as it did many of the wells be- 

 longing to the genus homo. I know of several very pretty homes that were 

 evacuated the present year by human families, on account of the failure of 

 their wells. Their wells dried up, and as they could not deepen them suf- 

 ficiently to obtain a supply of water, they were obliged to leave their long 

 cherished and well-fixed homes. The ants have done the same thing, and as I 

 think for the same reason. Their wells also failed and they have perished for 

 want of water, or have emigrated to districts more congenial to their peculiar 

 mode of life. Anyhow, they have greatly diminished, and many large cities 

 are actually depopulated and lying in ruins. 



On the first of August, 1861, I discovered in a grove of thick timber and 

 much undergrowth, a great many cutting-ant holes. They were all around in 

 the bushes, extending perhaps over an acre of ground. They were all alike 

 of recent date ; their newly thrown up little heaps of fresh sand was what first 

 attracted my attention. Finding them there on the hill-side, and actually 

 boring holes in the thick woods, was a performance so entirely contrary to 

 their customary habits, that I was led to the examination of the matter, and 

 if possible to ascertain the cause of this strange unantlike proceeding. My 

 first impression was, there being a large and very ancient city a few hundred 

 yards distant from the new settlement, that it was the work of the recently 

 thrown ofiF queens from that old kingdom : that the young queens had stopped 

 short in the shady woods in consequence of the hot dry weather, and were set- 

 ting up for themselves in a new style, it being on a declivity and in a densely 

 shaded woodland. I however excused them for all these flagrant deviations 

 from their long estaVjlished customs, by laying it to the continuous drouth and 

 hot weather. I did not leave them until I had marked the place that I might 

 visit them again, and find out how such a multiplicity of new settlements 

 in so small a track of country would manage in the future. I then paid a visit 

 to the large old ant city spoken of above. I had many times within the pre- 

 ceding twelve years, visited and made observations on its extraordinary public 

 works. When I came there I was astonished to find that its inhabitants were 

 all gone. I found only the large old mound of sand, now smoothed down by 

 time's sweeping winds and the passing cattle, but there were no inhaVjitants — 

 all had disappeared. They had evidently emigrated to the new settlements I 

 had encountered down the hillside in the thick shady forest, and the inhabi- 

 tants thereof were not, as I at first surmised, the newly commenced communi- 

 ties of the young queens, but emigrating parties who had gone out from the 

 old city in search of water. Their wells having failed, they could no longer 

 remain in the city, and having left it, had proceeded lower down the hill, and 

 hoping to find water, were sinking many new wells. Subsequent observations 

 have confirmed me in this opinion. The new settlements in a short time were 

 evacuated. Having been unsuccessful in obtaining water at the new place, the 

 ants had either died out or gone to some other district. 



In accordance with my oVjservations on this subject, I am forced to the con- 

 clusion that the drouth continued too long for them : that in districts vhere 

 the wells are liable to dry up they often perish. I find that the kingdoms that 

 are located near a constant stream, are in a flourishing state, and have con- 

 tinued so through all the time of the protracted dry season. 



The cutting-ants plant seeds of various trees, vines and other plants. When 

 they locate a city in bald prairie, which is often the case, where they cannot 

 procure the seeds of trees, they cultivate the prickly poppy (Argemone Mexi- 

 cana.) the most appropriate plant for their purpose that grows on the prairie. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



The seeds of this poppy are planted over the greater portion of the crown of 

 the city raoxind ; the phint springs up during the autumnal rains, forms strong 

 roots in the course of the winter, and by the time the sun becomes oppress- 

 ively hot the next spring, it has grown up two or three feet high, with 

 umbrageous greea foliage and many large white flowers, and affords ample 

 shade to the city. 



When the ants locate a city on some sunny point near the timbered lands, 

 they do not plant the pojjpy, but appear to prefer certain trees and vines for 

 shade. For this purpose they plant the seeds of the pi-airie dogwood, (Vibur- 

 num dentatum), Yopon, (Ilex vomitoria), Hackberrj^ tree, (Celtis occident- 

 alis). Gum elastic tree, (Bumelia lycioides), the mustang grape, (Vitis Texana), 

 Cocculus carolinus, and occasionally the prickly ash (Xanthoxylum fraxinium.) 

 It is often seen in cases of long established cities, that grape vines spread 

 themselves over the tops of the grown up shade trees, and the large luxuriant 

 foliage becomes so dense that it forms a shelter sufiBcient to turn a smart 

 shower of rain. From the scorching rays of the sun these thrifty vines afford 

 thorough protection. 



Notwithstanding the notable fact that all the plants these ants cultivate, pro- 

 duce nuts, pulpy fruits and large seeds, I have not discovered that they make 

 use of any of them for food. They appear to be a selection for shade, and so 

 far I have not observed that they have any other use. If, however, after a more 

 careful investigation it shall be discovered that they ciiltivate the vines, trees 

 and fruitful shrubs for the double purpose of both shade and food, we must 

 accord to them a share of sagacity and far-reaching forethought almost in- 

 credible. 



I have occasionally discovered colonies of small sized red ants, which in 

 foi-m resemble the smallest type of the cutting ants. They dwell in the ground. 

 I have not seen them cutting or carrying leaves. I have observed them thickly 

 covering a greasy rag, places where syrup had been spilt, and where coffee 

 grounds had been thrown aside at my hunting camps. They are not often met 

 with, and as I now think, never will be, so long as the superior and very numer- 

 ous race of cutting-ants inhabit the land. 



The smallest type found in the cities of the cutting-ants, which I have before 

 alluded to as being slaves, are in shape, size, color, and all their peculiar mo- 

 tions, precisely the same. How happens it that the same species of ant should 

 occupy two very distinctly marked conditions? In one he dwells in small 

 colonies, makes very little mark, is never wealthy, and does not remain long 

 at the same station. In the other he is a slave ! 



How the cutting-ant manages to make slaves of the smaller race is as yet an 

 unsolved question. The cutting-ant does, to be sure, perform all his thieving 

 operations at night, or by the aid of an underground passage, if in the day time. 

 Consequently our observations on the mode of carrying on the slave-trade must 

 necessarily Ije tedious and limited. But the cutting-ants have what I take to 

 be slaves in greatnumbers ; and the same type that constitutestheir slave popula- 

 tion, is found sometimes free, but very poor and in straggling communities. 



The fact that these little sand-carrying ants are a servile race, I think can- 

 not well be denied. If they are produced Jfrom the eggs of the cutting-ant by 

 a peculiar process of feeding, as is the case in producing the various types 

 found in a community, or hive of honey bees, then the conclusion will follow, 

 that there are no proper communities of the smaller type, and the little nests 

 that I have occasionally seen of them, were nothing more than companies of 

 badly managing absconded slaves. 



26<A February, 1861. There was a heavy rain last night. To-day it is very 

 clear and pleasant ; thermometer 70°. Everything that has life in it or can 

 grow is in motion. I was out on the prairie botanizing, and while resting in 

 the shade of a large live-oak which was nearly in full bloom, I discovered 

 great numbers of all sizes of the cutting-ants ascending and descending the 

 tree. On the ground beneath the tree were thousands of the ants carrying 



1867.] 




so PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



pieces of the leaves of various plants. The greater portion were carrying the 

 leaves of the live-oak. Some of the leaves were faded and nearly dry, and all 

 were the growth of the previous year. Seeing no ant hill near 1 undertook to 

 find out how far they carried their leaves through the thick grass. In a short 

 lime I discovered that they carried them above ground but a small distance to 

 a little pile of leaves and trash, under which they went dragging their cut 

 leaves with them. Turning up the little pile of leafy trash, which seemed to 

 have been driven there by the winds, in a depression of the ground that was 

 probably an old horse track, there was a hole a full inch in diameter. Not a 

 particle of dirt had been thrown out around it, and yet the hole was large and 

 slanted away to the northwest. There were thousands of the ants at work in 

 the shade of the live-oak, gathering up the leaves that were being constantly cut 

 down from above, and on closer scrutiny I found several other holes into which 

 they were going with leaves. These holes also slanted oS" under the surface, 

 but had no earth thrown out around them, and were all alike concealed with 

 leaves and little sticks. All the holes were crowded with the ants going in 

 with leaves, or coming out empty. With such a number of ants and so many 

 holes one would expect to find heaps of earth piled out around them, but such 

 was not the case. The holes were the outer termini of the subterranean pas- 

 sages they had run out from their city, about fifty yards distant, and piled on 

 their city mound laj^ the sand that came from the passages. These passages, 

 or tunnels, are constructed for the purpose of avoiding the almost insurmounta- 

 ble difficulty they would have to encounter in the effort to carry their leaves 

 through the tangled grass ; and also apparently to make it possible for them 

 to obtain food in times of scarcity during the cold weather. The cutting-ants are 

 very easily stiffened with the cold air, and cannot succeed in scrambling through 

 fifty yards of thick grass with a leaf of a cold day. But with the underground 

 roads, in almost any kind of weather, they can go to the terminus, hastily run 

 out and snatching up a recently fallen live-oak leaf, take it home through the 

 tunnel without difliculty. 



I saw the ants carrying nothing but leaves during this day's observation, 

 neither have I ever observed this species collect any other kind of food except 

 small flowers and the petals of larger ones ; but these are no more than tender 

 leaves. 



At the ant city there appeared to be a great turn out of the ants ihis fine 

 day. I noticed four sizes of them. Most of the slaves were engaged packing 

 out sand upon the city mound. There were, however, a considerable sprink- 

 ling of them in company with the larger sizes packing leaves. I noticed also 

 a great number of their giants, walking to and fro with the laborers, but they 

 performed no work that I saw. The giants are large, and have a large head 

 with strong mandibles. They are well-formed for the execution of much 

 of their kind of labor; but I did not discover that they did any work, though 

 they were passing up and down the tree and along the road with the laborers 

 all the time. All the small ones — the slaves — and the second sized ones — 

 which may also be slaves — were unremitting in their labors. The third size, 

 or class, also carried leaves quite busily. 



This species of ant often carry their subterranean roads to the distance of 

 several hundred yards from the city in grassy districts, but where the grass has 

 been destroyed, they do not construct the underground passages, but travel 

 over land in nicely cleared out roads, which are seen radiating from the city 

 mound and extending to various trees, or spots of herbage which produce 

 suitable leaves for their subsistence. To see one of these well-cleared roads 

 extending in a continuous line from the city to some tree or garden two or 

 three hundred yards distant is indeed remarkable. This fact, in a district 

 nude of grass, occurs so often that it cannot be attributed to chance, or blind 

 instinct. Some of the engineers in their excursions in search of supplies, 

 often wander to the distance of four or five hundred yards, or even further, 

 and finding a plentiful source of good food, would find no difficulty in con- 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



ducting parties the best route to it ; and soon a good smooth road is con- 

 structed, over which in crowds the workers are seen through the night, or 

 in cool cloudy days, transporting the leaves to the city. This is their mode, 

 invariably, in a country where the grass has been destroyed, and we can see 

 and understand the method aud the purpose for which they work. But in a 

 country which is heavily coated with high grass, it is not so easy to discover 

 by what process they lay off a tunnel and successfully carry it in a direct line 

 to the selected tree or garden spot a quarter of a mile distant, and sometimes 

 beyond a considerable streamlet of running water. 



On one occasion, on a log that lay across the Ye Gua Creek, the ants passed 

 over to a gentleman's garden and were rapidly cutting his vegetables to 

 pieces. The owner hoping to rid the garden of these troublesome insects, 

 cut the log away and it floated off down the creek. He was mistaken in his 

 calculations, for it was but a few days after when the ants were ravaging the 

 gardeu in as great numbers as they were previous to the removal of the log. 

 After searching unsuccessfully for some interlocking tree that might afl'ord 

 them a passage, it was observed that the ants came out from several holes, 

 situated on the creek side of the garden. Subsequently it was discovered 

 that, on a large ant mound crowning a sandy point near the edge of some 

 post-oak timber, two hundred yards from the creek, there were quantities 

 of the black soil of the Ye Gua bottom thrown out, proving that the second 

 visit of the ants to the gentleman's garden had been effected by a tunnel be- 

 neath the bed of the creek ; the channel of the creek, at that place is fifteen 

 or twenty feet deep, and from bank to bank on top of the bluff about thirty 

 feet. 



By what degree of the instinctive powers was all this engineering and truly 

 great project accomplished. 



I have never seen the cutting ants fighting among themselves, or with any 

 of the other species. I look upon them as the most peaceable, the most 

 sagacious, and at the same time the most destructive of the ant kind. 



March bth. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-six members present. 



The followina; papers were presented for publication : 

 " On the Structure of Lopezia." By Thomas Meehan. 

 " Mammalogical Notices." By J. H. Slack, M. D. 



March \1th. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice President, in the Chair, 



Forty-two members present. 



The death was announced of Prince Maximilian, of Wied, a Corres- 

 pondent. 



The following was presented for publication : 



"The necessity of Nebular Rotation." ]Jy J. Ennis. 



Prof. Cope exhibited the fossil skull of a large turtle, from a soft 

 granular limestone belonging to the cretaceous formation of Barnsboro, 

 Gloucester Co., N. J. It was characterized under the name of Euclas- 

 tes platyops. The length of the skull is 11 inches; its bread ch 8} 

 inches. 



1867.] 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



March \%th. 



The President, Dr. Hays, n the Chair. 



Thirty-nine members and correspondents present. 



The followiDg were presented for publication : 



" On Euclastes, a genus of extinct Chelonidaj." Bj E. D. Cope. 



Prof. Leidy exhibited a number of plates of a forthcoming work on the ex- 

 titict mammals of Nebraska and Dakota, comprising about seventy species. 

 Among these he exhibited the representation of a slcull of a new ruminant 

 which he characterized under the name of Agriochoerus latifrons. 



lu answer to a questiop, Prof. Leidy remarked that he had never detected 

 the slightest evidence of the former existence of the Hippopotamus in Ameri- 

 ca. Remains reported as such had turned out to be infeuor tusks of Mastodon, 



&C. 



Prof. Cope presented to the Academy a young specimen of the whale, known 

 as the Bahia Finner, procured near Bahia, Brazil, the length of which was 21 

 feet. He said ii belonged to the genus Megaptera, Gray, with the hunchback 

 whales of sailors. The evidence consists in the very thort di- and parapophy- 

 ses of the cervical vertebrae and the absence of all trace of acromion and co- 

 racoid processes. The orbital processes of the frontal are narrowed externally 

 and the muzzle considerably narrowed. Judging from the name, it possesses 

 a more fully developed dorsal fin than the other Megaptera. It should be 

 called Megaptera braziliensis. 



A letter was read from Prof. J. P. Kirtland, of Cleveland, Ohio, 

 giving an account of the death of Major Robert Kennicott, which 

 occurred on the 13th of May, 1866, at Nulato, on the Yukon River, 

 6U0 miles above its entrance into Behring's Sea. 



March 2Qth. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty. nine members present. 



The resignation of membership ©f 0. N. Barnes was tendered and 

 accepted. 



The death was announced of Washington L. Sherman, M. D., U. S. 

 A., a member, on May 4th, 1865. 



The following were elected members : 



Samuel Ashhurst, M. D., Francis Ashhurst, M. D., Rev. I. L. 

 Beman, Charles Smith, Thomas Earp, Charles Taylor, Moro Phillips, 

 Samuel Welsh, Lewis Cooper, Benjamin B. Comegys, S. C. Morton, 

 Mrs. E. P. Long and Miss Bohlen. 



The following were elected correspondents : 



Hon. George P. Marsh, Florence, Italy ; Dr. Gideon Lincecum, Long 

 Point, Texas; John R. Willis, Halifax, N. S. ; and Samuel H. Scud- 

 der, M. D., Boston, Mass. 



On favorable report of the respective committees the following papers 

 were ordered to be published : 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 38 



On the Structure of LOFEZIA. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



Lopezia, with its single stamen, is considered as an anomaly amongst ona- 

 graceous plants ; but an analysis of L. miniata, D.C., shows the structure to 

 be on the same regular plan with the rest of the order. The genus is described 

 as having a four-cleft calyx, which for practical purposes it may be considered 

 to have, — but two of the segments evidently belong to the coroUate system, 

 and two of the petals to the staminate axis, making the arrangement, from a 

 structural point of view, to be a two-cleft calyx, four petals, and four stamens. 



It may be well to observe here, that in consequence of the spiral nature of 

 the growth of plants, the different part^ of what we term the same axis are 

 not developed simultaneously. Stamens, petals, sepals and leaves, are, there- 

 fore, though apparently from the same axis or verticel, rarely of the same 

 size or form, and perhaps a careful microscopic examination might show that 

 they never are. We may assume that the parts of the verticel which have the 

 priority of development, will have at times a mechanical as well as physio- 



noid until some insect or other external agency touches the petal, when the 

 stamen is released with great force, and the petal springs backwards instanta- 

 neously on to the already expanded and spreading calyx, and the stamen at the 

 same time bends back in an opposite direction, scattering its pollen on the 

 back of the insect or the other disturbing cause. If this liberation has not been 

 eflFected at an early age, the stamen flies back at once into a position regularly 

 corresponding to the sterile petal on the opposite side ; but if early the grasp 

 it has on the pistil by its clasping filament prevents it doing so. The whole 

 arrangement with the progress of the development seems the most effectual con- 

 trivance that could possibly be devised to prevent a flower from fertilizing 

 its own stigma.* 



Beneath these two stamens are two gland- bearing petals, which the analyzer 

 will have no difficulty in deciding to be two stamens early developed, and par- 

 taking, in consequence, of a petaloid character. By the overlapping of the 

 bases when young these have been pushed out so as to be finally developed in 

 one direction, and beneath them are two perfect petals, also twisted to go in 

 one direction by the same law. 



We now come to the four-cleft calyx, and we notice that no sooner are the 

 segments fairly expanded than the two weaker ones take the direction towards 

 each other which characterizes the sets above them, leaving the twocleft 

 calyx to hold its position unchanged as such. These petaloid sepals have 

 evidently been brcmght down to the position of the true sepals mechanically, 

 by a temporary cohesion. If we assist very lightly a flower to open it bursts 

 easily into two parts, almost precisely like the two-cleft calyx of Cinaea, its 



• This elasticity has been noticed in Lopizia racmoiu, Car., by Curtis in Bot. Mag. t. 25*. 



1867.] 3 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



next affinity, showing clearly that its most natural division is on the binary 

 pi8.n. 



It may be further noted in regard to Lopezia miniata, the only perennial 

 suffruticose species I believe, that the smooth stem, which is considered a 

 good character in distinguishing it, is only extant while the plant is in a flower- 

 ing state. It has two distinct systems of growth. During the earliest it is as 

 hirsute as the other species ; at the conclusion of its early summer growth it 

 starts anew with a growth which ultimately flowers, and it is this only which 

 is destitute of hairs. 



These notes are made from cultivated plants. 



MAMMALOGICAL NOTICES. 

 BY J. H. SLACK, M. D. 



Antheopopithecus tschego. 



Troglodytes tscheyo Duvernoy, Arch, du Mus., vol. ix. 1857. 



Troglodytes calvus Du Chaillu, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vii. p. 267, 

 1860. 



Size about equal to that of the Anthropopitheats niger. General color black, 

 sometimes grey in old age. Head bald, black and shining ; chin of adult 

 bearded. Ears large, much larger than those of the Anthropopithecus gorilla, 

 though smaller than those of the Chimpanzee. 



Habitat. — The deep forests, and the table lands of equatorial Africa. 



Figure of skeleton, Duvernoy, Arch, du Mus., vol. ix. 



Figure of entire animal, Du Chaillu, Equatorial Africa, p. 406. 



A fine adult skeleton of this rare anthropoidal ape, first noticed as a dis- 

 tinct species bv the late lamented Duvernoy, has been for some time in the 

 collection of the Academy, and has been regarded until lately as that of the 

 A. niger. For a full account of the osteological difference between the two 

 species, I must refer to Duvernoy's most valuable and interesting paper ; 

 though, on placing the skulls of the two animals side by side, their specific 

 difi"erences must be apparent to the most superficial observer. 



A careful study of the species appears to me to clearly prove the 

 fallacy of regarding the A. gorilla as the type of a distinct genus, as has been 

 done by St. Hilaire, the tschego combining in a remarkable degree the charac- 

 teristics of both genera. The cranial crests, so much insisted on as generic 

 characters of the gorilla, are to be seen, though in a less degree of develop- 

 ment, in the tschego, while with the black face of the gorilla are associated 

 the large ears of the chimpanzee, and, in fact, all the characteristics of the 

 animal are intermediate between those of the two genera. The names tschego, 

 nshego and ncheko appear, from the accounts of travellers, to have been 

 applied indiscriminately by the natives of equatorial Africa to all species of 

 anthropoidal apes. 



To this species has been ascribed the faculty of constructing a nest or shel- 

 ter among the higher branches of trees, as a protection from the inclemency 

 of the weather during the rainy season. This, according to Du Chaillu, 

 (Equatorial Africa, p. 407) is covered with leaves, compactly laid together, at 

 such an angle as to readily shed the rain. The branches are fastened to the 

 trunk of the tree with vines ; the roof is generally from six to eight feet in 

 diameter. Surely this roof-constructing power must place its builder the 

 highest in the scale of the quadrumana. 



The only figure of this animal in the flesh that I have met with, is to be 

 found in Du Chaillu's work. The so-called young in the same plate, however, 

 resembles in a most remarkable degree a daguerreotype from life of a young A. 

 niger, which died some years ago in the Jardin des Plantes at Paris. It must 

 therefore be received "cum grano salis." 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



I have accepted for the genus the name given by De Blainville in his lec- 

 tures, 1839, and quoted by Seni'schal (Dictionare pict. de Hist. Nat., article 

 Quadrumana, 1839; Hollard, Elem. de Zool., 1839 ; Pouchet, Zool. Class., 

 vol. i. p. 39, 1841, et al, )as not only being much more appropriate for a genus 

 of animals living among the branches of trees, but also as the name Troglo- 

 di/tes is preoccupied, having been given to a genus of birds by Vieillot (Oiseaux 

 de I'Amerique Septentrionale, p. 52, 1S07) five years previous to its having 

 been bestowed upon this genus of mammalia by Etienne Geoffrey St. Hilaire 

 (Tableau des Quadrumanes, Annales du Mus., 1812). 



A. tschego — entire skeleton. 

 Specimen No. 564. 



Muzzle to last cervical vertebra 14* 



" dorsal " 21-7 



" " lumbar " 24-5 



" tip of great toe 59*5 



Height , 46- 



Arm 31* 



Leg 26- ' 



Humerus 11'5 



Femur II" 



Hand 8*5 



Foot 6-25 



From materials in the collection of the Academy I am enabled to present 

 the following table of measurements of the skulls of the allied species of the 

 genus Anthropopithecus : 



The method of measurement adopted is that suggested by Dr. J. A. Meigs, 

 in his paper "on the Measurements of the Human Skull." 



No. Name. No. Name. No. Name. 



564. A. tschego. 156. A. niger. 155. A. niger. 



Occipito-frontal 5- 5*45 5-28 



Frontal 4-2 4-2 4.45 



Bi-temporal 3-7 3-7 3-8 



Bi-parietal 3-4 3-7 3-75 



Frontal arch 8*2 8*8 8*8 



Parietal arch 9-2 10- 10- 



Occipital arch 7-2 7-9 7-75 



Horizontal periphery 6*25 6-75 6 



Meato frontal 3-75 4-2 4-2 



Meato parietal 1*9 1*8 1*8 



Meato occipital 3* 3" 3" 



Meato malar 2-7 3* 3- 



Meato alveolar 6*5 6* 6" 



Nasal alveolar 2-2 2*2 2*2 



Bi-zygomatio 4-1 4-5 4-2 



Facial angle 50° 47'^ 4.5'> 



Cranial capacity 22 in 20 in 20 in. 



Ctnocephalus doguera, Pucheran and Schimper, Rev. et Mag. de Zoologie, 

 1856, p. 96 ; 1857, p. 57. 



General color olive-brown, the brown predominating on the body and exter- 

 nal surface of posterior limbs ; hands very dark brown, nearly black ; sides of 

 head, belly, and internal surface of limbs yellowish-white, the hairs of body 

 annulated with alternate bands of black and brownish-yellow, the brown pre- 

 dominating upon the tail, which is terminated by a long tuft of hairs. Face 

 naked. 



Habitat. — Central Abyssinia. 



1867.] 




36 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



3feasurements. 



1013. Mounted skin, (^. Abyssinia. 



From tip of nose to eye 5* 



' •' ear 8* 



" " occiput 13*4 



'« " tail 38- 



Tail to end of vertebrae 19* 



" " hairs 22' 



Length of fore foot 20- 



" hind feet 19-5 



The specimen in the collection of the Academy above described was ob- 

 tained by me for the institution from Messrs. Verreaux freres, of Paris, in 1861. 

 It, with the type of the species, now in the magnificent collection of the Jardin 

 des Plantes, was brought by Mr. Schimper from Central Abyssinia about the 

 year 1855. These two specimens are, as far as I am aware, the only ones 

 known to naturalists. Both are full-grown males. 



M. Schimper states that the animals of this species are gregarious in their 

 habits, he having met with them in troops of from one to two thousand indi- 

 viduals. They hunt their prey, which consists mainly of the small rumi- 

 nants, in a manner similar to that of a pack of hounds ; following the quarry 

 until it is exhausted by fatigue, and then capturing and devouring it. Similar 

 habits have been ascribed by travellers to the C. porcarius. It is also stated 

 that the lion and leopard are unknown in the region inhabited by this baboon. 

 A glance at the specimen under consideration would convince the observer 

 that it is of a most ferocious disposition ; the large canines and heavy lower 

 jaw would be useless to an animal of quiet and peaceful habits, and, in fact, 

 M. Schimper also informs us that it wages a continual war against the 

 Dschellada {Theropithecus gelada),* which inhabits the same locality. 



The only baboon with which this species can be confounded is the C. por- 

 carius, the form, size and habits of the two species being somewhat similar; 

 but they can readily be distinguished by their coloration, the porcarius being 

 much darker. 



I have not been able to compare the skulls of the two species, but from an 

 examination of the only specimens known, both being mounted skins, it 

 would appear that the occipi to- mental diameter of the skull is proportionately 

 much greater in this species than in the porcarius. 



Mijcetes palliatus Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1848, p. 138, fig. vi. 



Under this name Dr. Gray has figured and described a monkey from South 

 America, which presented most certainly all the characters required for the 

 formation of a new species, though the specimens were young ; still the long 

 hair of the back and the coloration were very different from any of the known 

 South American quadrumana. Having received four specimens from the 

 Smithsonian Institution which had been collected by the Atrato Expedition, I 

 accepted the species in my Monograph of the Prehensile-tailed Quadrumana 

 (Proc. A. N. S. 1862, p. 519). I have since had an opportunity of examin- 

 ing other specimens from New Grenada, and have discovered, to my surprise, 

 that it is merely the young of the Aluata niger. When very young the animal 

 is of a pale straw color, passing through all the intermediate shades of colora- 

 tion in its pelage during its youth, and in adult age becoming entirely of an 

 intense black color. The coloration of the palliatus is that of the period of 

 the commencement of the second dentition. 



Macacus fur, sp. nov., vide plate. 



General color reddish-brown, dashed with black, the hairs of the body and 

 external surface of limbs being black throughout the basal two-thirds of their 



* A fine suite of specimens, male, female and ynung of the T. gelada have been obtained from 

 M. Verreaux, and are now in tlie Museum of the Academy. 



. [March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



length, and tipped with reddish-brown ; breast, belly, and internal surface of 

 limbs grey, somewhat darker on posterior limbs ; tail, a tuft of hairs on the 

 superciliary ridge, and a line extending from the external angle of the eye to 

 base of ear, black ; tail long, about equal to the body in length ; hands dark 

 brown ; fingers black ; hair of occiput laying flat, neither forming a crest nor 

 radiating from a common centre. 



Me'isurements. 

 Specimen No. 1254. Philippines, (f*. 



From tip of nose to eye 2* 



" " ear 4^ 



" " occiput 8- 



" " tail 23 



Tail 22-5 



Length of fore feet 11- 



" hind feet 13. 



Skull (occiput broken'). Bi-temporal, 2*3; bi-zygomatic, 2-7; fronto-men- 

 tal, 3-2. Lower jaw : angle to symphysis, 2-6; angle to condyle, 1*2. 



This Macaque was obtained for the Academy some years since in Paris, by 

 myself, and as great confusion occurs in regard to the species of this genus, I 

 would have had great reluctance to describe it as a new species, had I not had 

 the opportunity of comparing it with the various specimens in the great muse- 

 ums of both Paris and London. 



The only previously described species of Macacux with long tails, and with- 

 out radiating hairs or crests upon the top of the head, are the M. aureus (Is. 

 Geoff., Voy. de Belang. 1830), of which the general color is pale red- 

 dish-yellow, with limbs grey on their external surfaces ; the M. cynomolgus 

 (Desmarest, Mammalia, p. 65, 1820, Simia cynomolgus Linn.), which is 

 olive, dashed with black, and tail much longer than the present species. The 

 locality is also difi'erent. I have examined specimens of the cynomolgus from 

 India, Bengal, Mauritius, Java and Sumatra, but have never met with one 

 from the Philippine Islands ; the M. palpehrosus, which is thus described by 

 St. Hilaire (Cat. des Primates, &c., Paris, 1851, p. 93) : "Les paupiferes sont 

 blanches, ainsi qu'une tache placee de chaque cote au dessus de la paupiere, 

 et contrastant avec la couleur fonuee soit de I'espace intermediere au deux 

 taches, soit de la face ;" and an albino specimen in the museum of the Jardin 

 des Plantes, described by St. Hilaire as M. Philippinensis (Arch, du Mus., 

 1843, t. xxxii. p. 568), which presents no distinguishing specific characters, 

 — the form of the head being, however, entirely different from that of the 

 M. fur. 



I have been informed by M. Jules Verreaux, who has spent some time at 

 the Philippine Islands, that this animal is found only on the island of Luzon, 

 and is there, unfortunately for the inhabitants, quite common. Though in- 

 habiting the mountains and dense forests in the interior of the island, they 

 frequently make nocturnal excursions to the sea-coast in large troops, utterly 

 destroying the crops planted by the natives, especially those of turnips, a 

 root of which they appear to be particularly fond. The specific name is be- 

 stowed upon them on account of their thieving propensities. Their flesh is 

 eaten by the natives, and considered a great delicacy. 



Galago elegantulus Slack, Proc. A. N. S. 1861, p. 153. 



Microcebus elegantulus J. Le Conte, Proc. A. N. S. 1857, p. 10. 



Galago crassicaudatus Gray, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. vol. viii. 1861, p. 63. 



Otolicnus apacalis Du Chaillu, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. 1861. 



General color dark cinereous, the hairs being tipped with reddish-brown 

 and grey during the basal two-thirds of their length. Tail cylindrical and 

 bushy, tipped with white. 



Dr. Gray (loc. cit.) regards this species as identical with the Galago crassi- 



3867.] 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



caudatus of Etienne St. Hilaire (Ann. du Mus. 1812, p. 166). It is, however, 

 in my opinion, entirely distinct. The specimen in the collection of the 

 Academy, from the Du Chaillu collection, though adult, as may be 

 seen by' the examination of the skull, is at least one-third smaller than the 

 typical specimen of the G. crassicaudatus in the Paris museum ; the nose is 

 more pointed, and the general coloration very different. 



The white tip of the tail, which is considered by Dr. Gray as accidental, I 

 regard as a well-marked specific character, it being plainly indicated in two 

 very young specimens, presented to the Academy by Dr. H. A. Ford 

 several years since. One of these is decolorized by having been preserved in 

 alcohol ; the other is entirely of a dark slate color, with the exception of the 

 white apex of the tail. 



A curious typographical error is to be found in Maj. Le Conte's description 

 of this species : the head is described as 1 foot 9 inches in length ; for "head" 

 read — from muzzle to tip of tail. 



Dapbkntosia Madagascarensis Etienne St. Hilaire, Decade Philosophique, t. 

 iv. p. 193, 1795. 



Cheiromys Madagascai-ensis Cuvier, Anat. Comparee, vol. i. 1800; Diet, des 

 Sciences Nat. 



This most curious mammal, whose place in the scale of nature was for a 

 long time a point of discussion between the most eminent European natural- 

 ists and which, even at the present day, has been regarded by some as a ro- 

 dent (vide Tenney, Natural History, &c., N. Y., 1865, p. 2, fig. 57), though 

 the manner of growth of its incisors is entirely different from that of the ro- 

 dentia was first described by the elder St. Hilaire under the generic name of 

 Dauhentonia, in 1795. In 1800, Cuvier, who long held that the creature was 

 a rodent, re-described it under the name of Cheiromys, ^iip, manus; f/.Za-, mus. In 

 the Diction, des Sciences Naturelles, 1816, Art. Aye Aye, he gives his reason for 

 the chanf'e, made, it is said, with the consent of the original discoverer, in the 

 following words : " Nous avons prefere Cheiromys, parceque I'usage de donner 

 des noms d'homme n'est point recu en zoologie comme en botanique." Is 

 this sufficient ground for a change ? In our opinion certainly not, unless the 

 absurd rule first promulgated by the French naturalists, which would compel 

 us to " considerer comme non avenus (toutefois en les citant en synonymie) les 

 noms tombes en desuetude" {Is. Geojff. St. Hilaire, Cat. des Primates, p. xi.,) 

 should be generally adopted, which would still further confuse the work of 

 zoological nomenclature, begun by Adam, and far from being completed at 

 the present day. 



April 2d. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-eight members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " On dioicoeus forms of Vitis vinifera." By Thomas Meehan. 

 The death was announced of Dr. George Jager, of Stuttgart, Corre- 

 spondent. 



April d(h. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty- six members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " Description of New Texan Myriapoda." By Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



" On two new Minerals from Chester Co." By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 



Prof. Cope exhibited several vertebrae of a G avial from the creta- 

 ceous marl of Burlington Co., N. J., and proposed for the new species 

 the name of Thoracosaurus brevispinus. 



A letter was read from George W. Tryon, Jr., offering his collection 

 of Shells to the Academy on certain conditions, which, on resolution 

 were accepted. The collection consists of over 10,000 species, in ad- 

 dition to 100 jars of alcoholic specimens, mainly of naked mollusca. 

 The collection is particularly rich in recently described species. 



April IQih. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty- eight members present. 



The death was announced of Dr. C. W. Pennock, on the 14th inst., 

 a member. 



April 2Bd. 



^ The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-three members present. 



The following was presented for publication : 



"A third study of the Icteridse." By John Cassin. 



The death was announced of Mr. Samuel C Morton, a member. 



April dOth. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-three members present. 



The following were elected correspondents : 



Col. F. F. Cavada, U. S. Consul at Trinidad; Eugene Gaussoin, of 

 Baltimore ; Alpheus Hyatt and F. W. Putnam, of Salem, Mass. 



The following were elected members : 



Wm. Hay, James H. Little, Beauveau Borie, J. Ross Snowden, Wm. 

 W. Keen, Jr., M. D., Edward J. Nolan, M. D., Charles Magarge, 

 Charles S. Coxe, Isaiah V. Williamson, Matthew Baird, Charles 

 Wheeler, Robert H. Gratz, Adolph E. Borie, H. Pratt McKean, Geo. 

 F. Tyler, Wistar Morris, Joseph F. Page, Israel Morris, A. Campbell, 

 Thomas A. Scott, H. H. Houston, Charles Spencer, Gustavus S. Ben- 

 son, Wm. A. Blanchard. 



On favorable report of the respective Committees, the following were 

 ordered to be published : 



On EUCLASTES, a genus of extinct Cheloniidae. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



This genus is established on a species represented by a single imperfect 

 cranium, procured by Thos. Heritage from his marl excavations near Hurfif- 

 ville, in Camden Co., N. J. The matrix in which it is preserved is very simi- 



1867.] 




40 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



lar to that near Vincenttown, in which the cranium of the Thoracosaurus 

 neocassariensis was discovered, being a coarse granular limestone in 

 many places, with numerous black rounded grains of perhaps phosphate of 

 iron or hornblende. It is abundanth^ penetrated by Teredo tibialis Mort., 

 contains Grj-phaea vomer abundantly, and has afforded the only specimen 

 of Aturia from the eastern cretaceous beds, which I have called A. p a u c i f e x.* 

 The bed is but a few inches thick, and is frequently interrupted, and is over 

 and underlaid by the green sand of Cook's middle bed. 



The phj-siognomy of this large turtle, in the obliquely expanded zygomata 

 and short muzzle, is like the Pleurodire genera Podocnemis Wagl. among re- 

 cent Chelonia, and Bothremys Leidy, of the same age, among extinct forms. Its 

 completely overarched temporal fossa; add to the impression of its affinity to the 

 former genus, but on inspection of the vomer, it is found to be, as in the true 

 Cheloniida?, largelj- developed on the palatal surface between the o. o. maxil- 

 laria, and to extend to a posteriorly situated nareal opening. Though this 

 element is unossified in the Chelonioid types of Pleurodira, Peltocephalus and 

 Podocnemis, it is well developed in the family Chelydida? (Agassiz), and the 

 peculiarity of the cretaceous species might still exist in this sub-order. As it 

 is a matter of much interest to determine the precedence in time of the two 

 sub-orders of Chelonians, I have taken pains to remove the matrix from the 

 orbital and nasal cavities, so as to determine the structure of the prefrontal 

 bone. As I have elsewhere pointed out, this sends downward a column to the 

 vomer, either vertically or directed obliquely inwards, in all the Cryptodira, 

 while in the Pleurodira the column is wanting. 



It might be reasonably anticipated that, in the period of the Cretaceous, *the 

 less typical sub-order now characteristic of the Southern Hemisphere would 

 abound, if not entirely prevail. Its genera occur in the different epochs of the 

 Jurassic period, and Prof. Agassiz suspects one, at least, of the Cretaceous 

 Cheloniffi of Europe to be really Pleurodire. The species herein described, 

 however, I must refer to the true Cheloniids, and consider it as an undescribed 

 genus, having marks of resemblance to the Trionychida; and Hydraspididas. It 

 differs from Chelonia in its large naso-j^alatal foramen, thus resembling Trio- 

 nyx, in the complete flooring of the nasal meatus by the vomer and palatines 

 as far back as the line of the inferior openings of the orbits, and by the shallow- 

 ness of the palate and slight developement of the alveolar margin. 



The diagnosis will be as follows : that of Bothremys a Hydraspid, which has 

 furnished the only other cranium from the same formation, is introduced. It 

 also has the vomer osseous, extensively in contact with the maxillaries on the 

 palatine surface. 



BoTHiiEMYS Leidy. Posterior nares separating vomer from o. o. palatina ; pre- 

 maxillary margin concave, involute ; alveolar surface profoundly concave, 

 vomerine surface a sulcus. Nasal meatus floored in front. 



EucLASTES Cope. Maxillaries and palatines separated throughout by the pro- 

 longed vomer ; posterior nares opposite palatal front margin of orbits ; pre- 

 maxillarj- margin projecting, beak-like ; alveolar face little concave, vomer 

 forming a central ridge. Floor of nasal meatus perforate for hook of man- 

 dible. 



While Bothremys had an inferior mouth and projecting muzzle, as in the 

 modern Hydraspides, the nostrils of the Euclastes were superior and behind 

 the short projecting beak. The orbits are not, as in the Macrochelys of the 

 Mississippi, far anterior and reduced in size, but their centres are distant from 

 the end of the muzzle (measured axially) more than one-third the total length 

 of the cranium. 



The descending portion of the prefrontal is very wide, and equal to the width 



» Proc. Academy, 1866, p. 8. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 41 



of the maxillary outside the lachyrmal foramen ; the latter is small. Inter- 

 nally the columns of the prefrontals converge below to nearly an acute angle, 

 and are directed for^Yards along the vomer. They restrict the nasal meatus 

 extensively, leaving its diameter less than that of the columns. On the muzzle 

 the prefrontals have but a short common suture, admitting the frontal far be- 

 tween them. The internal nostrils have a diameter each side the septum, 

 equal to that of the meatus between the prefrontals. 



EUCLASTES PLATYOPS CopC. 



Premaxillaries narrow, rounded in front, maxillary outline nearly straight to 

 below anterior rim of orbits, where the breadth of the muzzle is four inches, 

 length to end of muzzle only two. Plane from top of prefrontals to maxillary 

 margin straight, oblique. Maxillary margin with a gentle sigmoid flexure. 

 Squamosal much expanded below and behind orbits. Frontal region flat, pa- 

 rietal rising behind. Nasal meatus subquadrate, slightly narrowed below, its 

 palatal foramen with a free lateral osseous margin. Alveolar ridge divergent, 

 little projecting above the oblique surface ; the latter is most concave behind 

 on each side the vomer, and presents no ridges, and few nutritious foramina. 

 Line of common suture of o. o. maxillaria in front of vomer, in a sulcus. Pala- 

 tines cuneiform with everted margins posteriorly, latter most elevated on each 

 side the small choanal opening, which is bounded in front by the projecting pos- 

 terior knob of the vomer. The maxillaries are very massive, and underlie more 

 than two-thirds the area of the orbits ; they receive a very extensive descend- 

 ing portion of the prefrontals, their union extending so far towards the median 

 line as to leave but a narrow nasal meatus. This offers a powerful resistant 

 face to the motion of the mandible. The posterior, orbital margin is -75 in.ch 

 in thickness, and is at right angles to its alveolar margin. Pterygoids almost 

 entirely broken away. The following measurements will furnish the best data 

 for a comprehension of the form in detail : 



In. Lin. 



Total length cranium 11 



Breadth behind orbits 8 6 



" between posterior margins orbits 5 2-5 



Least interorbital width 2 2-5 



Width of nasal meatus 1 2-5 



Depth premaxillaries 1 1 



" maxillary at middle orbit.... 1 3-5 



" squamosal at zygomatic arch 2 2 



Length naso-prefrontals 2 3 



" " common suture 6-2 



" common suture frontals 2 4 



" from anterior margin orbit to nasal meatus 11 



" from premaxillary margin to end vomer 3 9 



Width posterior nares together 1 1"5 



" palatine hone opposite end of vomer 9 



" vomer near anterior extremity 7 



Greatest diameter of orbit 2 6 



Least " " 2 



The broad, regular alveolar surfaces have no doubt supported a massive 

 corneous table, in some degree like that of Platypeltis ferox, and with little 

 or no external cutting margin. This arrangement, as well as the compactness 

 of structure, is appropriate to a nutrition dependent on crushing more or less 

 hard bodies, as molluscs. That the Ostreae, Terebratulae, etc , of the sea coasts 

 or estuaries in which it lived formed much of its food, is therefore quite pro- 

 bable. 



Estimating the proportions to have been similar to those of Hydraspis 

 m a X i m i 1 i a n i, the dimensions of the Euclastes platyops were — 



1867.] 




42 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Ft, In. 



Length from end muzzle to end tail 6 7| 



" of carapace 4 1 



Width of plastfon at middle ,. 3 Of 



Note on Dioicoeus forms of VITIS VINIFERA, L. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



The different species of Vitis are so closely allied that the systematist is often 

 puzzled to find distinguishing characters, and hence liable to give too much 

 importance to points really of little value. 



De CandoUe, in his Prodromus, divides Vitis into two sections, according to 

 the inflorescence, — one, natives of this countrj-, Tvith imperfect flower [Dioic% 

 aut polygamse, Americame) ; the other, perfect and Old-world forms [Hermaphro- 

 ditm, in orhe veteri indigenie), — but as Vitis is not of a true declinous type, but 

 of that class which suppresses or develops its sexual organs according to cir- 

 cumstances, such a division is at best of doubtful value. 



Vitis vini/era, the great type of Asiatic forms, has not probably been observed 

 closelj' in a natural state ; and under cultivation, in the hands of cultivators 

 who value the vine for its fruit onlj-, barren plants would not likely be pre- 

 served. Yet pistillate or female plants do not seem uncommon, for De Can- 

 doUe says (vol. i. p. 633,) " Seminibus numero variis imo interdum omnibus 

 abortivis," these seedless grapes being most likely the product of unimpreg- 

 nated ovaries. 



That male plants do exist is, however, proved by a specimen, in the Acade- 

 my's Herbarium, of Vitis vinifera mascula, gathered near Naples by Tenore. 



In the endeavor to distinguish forms of Vitis viyiifera from American species, 

 its hermaphrodite character is still often insisted on ; but with the demonstra- 

 tion of the existence certainly of male flowers, and the probable existence of 

 female ones, this distinction becomes too uncertain to be of much value. 



Descriptions of new species of Texan MYBIAFODA. 

 BY DR. HORATIO C. WOOD, JR. 



Genus CERMATIA. 



C. LiNOECI. 



C. dilute brunnea, linea mediana saturate viride et alteris lateralibus inter- 

 dum obsoletis ornata ; stomatis dorsalibus singula maculis duis laete rubris 

 marginata. 



This handsome species is of a brownish color, with the dark green median 

 stripe often involving nearly the whole of the posterior portion of the dorsum. 

 The lateral stripes appear to be sometimes wanting. The head is marked much 

 as in C. forceps ; in the dried specimen it is of a nearly uniform reddish ferru- 

 ginous color. The scuta are roughened with rather distant small spines ; their 

 margins are thin, elevated, without conspicuous spines. The antennae are of 

 the same color as the head, as indeed are all of its appendages. The spots 

 bordering the dorsal stomata are somewhat kidney-shaped, and of a scarlet 

 lake color. 



The under surface of the body, the coxse and femora, are of a light brown 

 color. The tibiaj and tarsi are of a dark greenish tint. The metatarsi are of 

 nearly the same tint as the head ; the first article is about equal to the next 

 five in length. The sterna are rather deeply impressed with a median longi- 

 tudinal line. The body of the largest specimen in my possession is about seven 

 lines in length. 



The foregoing description is taken chiefly from dried specimens, in which the 

 coloration, I presume, does not differ materially from that of life. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



Dr. Lincecum states, in his letter accompanying tlie siieciraens, that their 

 favorite haunts are under stones, in hollow logs, and especiall}' about unused 

 fire-places. He also says that they are not half the size oi C. forceps. In dedi- 

 cating this species to Dr. Lincecum, I do it as a well merited token of respect 

 for his untiring zeal as a field naturalist, and for the liberality with which he 

 furnishes others with the results of his own industry. I am indebted to the 

 Doctor for all the species described in this paper. 



Genus POLYDESMUS. 



P. IMPURUS. 



P. dilute brunneus fusco variatus ; scutis rubro marginatis ; scuto anale tri- 

 angulare, apice elongato truncate ; appendicibus masculis, robustis, spina 

 terminale baud pilosa. 



The color is a light brown, finelj' mottled with dark brown, the dark color 

 predominating in the central portions of the scuta, the light on the lateral 

 parts. The scuta are ornamented with a narrow reddish flesh-colored line 

 both on their posterior and lateral margins, which is, however, more pro- 

 nounced on the lateral margins ; the first scutum has a similar line on its ante- 

 rior margin. The vertex has a strongly pronounced median line. The antennae 

 are filiform, somewhat pilose, and like the ventral surface and pubescent feet, 

 a light yellowish brown. The male appendages are robust, their blunt 

 distal end is covered with long hairs, and gives origin to two spines, neither of 

 which are hairy ; the larger of these is regularly curved, except at its extreme 

 point, where it is abruptly' bent ; the other is slender, curved, aud acute. The 

 total length of the body aud head is about an inch. 



This species is closely allied to P. hispidipes, differing from it, however, in 

 coloring and in the form of the genital appendages. I have not examined any 

 females. Dr. Lincecum informs me that it is rare in Texas, especially in dry 

 seasons, and is found chiefly under old cow dung. Its favorite haunts suggested 

 its name, although it is one of our handsomest species. 



Genus lULUS. 



L CiESIUS. 



I. cfesius, brunneo annulatus ; antennis filiformibus, modicis, pilosis ; capitis 

 vertice subnigra, superticie antica dilute brunnea, margine antico modice 

 emarginato ; scutorum lateribus canaliculatis ; mucrone modice magno, recto, 

 robusto ; segmentis 56, baud pilosis. 



The color of this species is a sort of bluish gray, more or less involved in 

 the brown rings. The antenui^? are slender, and not at all clavate. The sides 

 are chased with moderately close channels, which on the anterior scuta are 

 strongly pronounced, but on the posterior are somewhat obsolete. The last 

 scutum is prolonged into a somewhat blunt mucro, at least the latter is 

 quite obtuse in the only specimen which I have seen. The male genital ap- 

 pendages are composed, as in the allied species, of two parts. The chief of 

 these gives origin on the outer part on each side to a process, which is bifur- 

 cated almost to its base ; the arms which thus originate are separated by 

 a narrow fissure, one of them is thin, broad, and distally narrowed to a point; 

 it is so placed as to present its broad aspect somewhat obliquely towards the 

 flank of the animal. The other is shorter, clavate, distally coarsely profusely 

 pilose, and set as it were at an angle to the first, so as to face obliquely back- 

 wards. The inner portion of the male aj)pendages consists on each side of two 

 slender, subcylindrical, smooth processes, which are united at their bases ; the 

 shortest of them is nearly straight, the longer somewhat bent. The total 

 length of my specimen is nearly two inches. 



I. DIVERSIFRO.NS. 



I. saturate brunneus, linea nigra mediana et seriebus lateralibus macula; ni- 

 grae ornatus ; capitis vertice subnigra, superficie antica cinerea, margine antico 

 distincte emarginato ; mucrone modice magno, recto ; segmentis 52. 



1867.] 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The antennaj of this species are filiform and pubescent. The male genital 

 appendages are composed on each side of two parts, the outer of which is 

 broad, thin, and very irregular, ending in two processes, of which the outer is 

 short, very strongly expanded distally and pilose, and often of a black color ; 

 the inner is longer and more irregular, narrowing from the base, distally it is 

 bent nearly at right angles to itself, ending' in cylindrical points. The inner 

 of the two parts is composed of a single irregular, thin process, which has at 

 first somewhat of the swan-neck curve, and near its end is bent sharply at 

 right angles to itself; it gives origin to two sharp spines, one arising from the 

 angle and the other from the shaft, so as to be, as it were, shielded by the bent 

 portion. The female appendages are similar to those of /. impressus, differing, 

 however, in the shape of the lower plates on each side, which give more the 

 appearance of a volute shell than of a bivalve. The total length of the head 

 and body is about two inches. 



This is a species of which I received a single specimen in a large collection 

 from South Illinois, and mentioned under /. impressus in mj^ monograph. 

 It appears to be rare in the Western States, but very plenty in Texas. 



On two New Minerals from Chester Co., Fenn. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



On a visit last summer to the well known Corundum locality near Unionville, 

 Chester Co., my attention was attracted to an adhering fibrous mass, on the side 

 of a large piece of Corundum on the farm of Mr. John Lesley, Jr. This was evi- 

 dently different from any mineral accompanj-iug Corundum which I had ever 

 seen ; and the application of vaj chisel showed at once that it had no outward 

 characteristic of that exceedingly hard mineral. On the contrary, the edge of the 

 instrument easily penetrated it, but at the same time it was tough and adhered 

 so closely to the side of the mass of Corundum that it was with great difficulty 

 I got quite a large piece off without breaking it up. Subsequently I took my 

 friend Mr. Jefferis to the spot, and we obtained the remaining portion. On the 

 careful examination of other masses of Corundum in possession of Mr. Lesley 

 we could find no more of it. We found, however, pieces of a soft mineral which 

 had a lamellar structure, and which I think will prove to be the same substance 

 when they shall both be analysed. Believing that these are varieties of the 

 same miaeral, and that it has heretofore not been observed, I propose to call it 

 Lesleyite, after the proprietor of the farm where it was found. 



On some of the masses of Corundu?nwe found very fine large lamellar crystals 

 of Emerylite. some of the cleavage laminae of which were one to two inches long 

 and more than an inch broad. Some of these crystals exhibited well defined 

 hexagonal prismatic sides. I believe no such fine specimens of Emerylite have 

 been found elsewhere. In a few cases there were beautifully decremented 

 crystals. In some of the cleavage plates may be observed irregular red spots, 

 which under the microscope are transparent and of a bright color, but they 

 present no regular crystalline form and are, no doubt, composed of one of the 

 oxides of iron. When thin laminae were subjected to the polaroscope the red 

 color was unusually brilliant. 



Connected with these crystals of Emerylite and passing into and through 

 them, are dark green hexagonal, translucent Tourmalines, in prisms often an 

 inch long, some of them being one-tenth of an inch thick. There is also much 

 black Tourmaline connected with the Corundum. 



The most important and rarest mineral of this locality is, however, Diaspore 

 (Dihidrate of Alumina.) This I found in connexion with the large cleavage 

 plates of Emerylite which surrounded the crystals of Diaspore, imbedding them 

 in the mass. Some of the Diaspore was in lamellated masses of two to three 

 inches and often of adamantine brilliancy. Some of the crystals of Diaspore 

 are of a pure opaque white, while others are of a fawn color inclining to topaz 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



color. Others again are greenish and splendent. The prisms are hexagonal 

 ■with four terminal planes, somewhat like the figure in Dana's Mineralogy. The 

 largest I found is imperfect and measures in length an inch, and in breadth 

 three-fourths of an inch. The finest and most perfect one is eleven-twentieths 

 of an inch long and five-twentieths thick, being well terminated at both ends 

 •with four planes. Two small ones, about three-tenths of an inch long, are ter- 

 minated also at both ends with four planes. These as well as some other 

 crystals present very closely the color and appearance of crystals of Topaz. One 

 of the crystals o^ Diaspore had a crystal of transparent green TourmqMne pass- 

 ing through the middle of the prism and the whole was enveloped by lamellar 

 crystals of pearly Emcrylite^ showing that the Tourmaline was first crystallized, 

 then the Diaspore and lastly the Emerylite. Mr. Jefferis also obtained some 

 fine specimens. 



Another species of mineral, which I believe heretofore unnoticed, belongs to 

 the Mica Family. It is found onl}^ imbedded in the masses of Lesleyite. It has 

 a gray metallic color resembling Zinc. It is translucent only in thin cleavage 

 lamina?. I propose to call this Pattersonite, after Mr. Johnson Patterson, the 

 owner of the adjoining farm, and Mhere the large masses of Corundum were 

 first found, one of which weighed four thousand pounds. Mr. Patterson has 

 always most liberally promoted the objects of Mineralogists who have visited 

 him in search of minerals, and it is due to Mr. Lesley to say the same of him. 



Lesleyite. Fibrous or lamellar, sometimes inclining to massive. Color 

 whitish passing into reddish. Hardness about three. Streak white. Before 

 the blowpipe parts with its water and becomes opaque white. Does not fuse 

 with borax. Does not dissolve in muriatic acid. Under the microscope it pre- 

 sents no observable characteristics. Its gravity is greater than that of quartz. 

 There is a disposition in the crystalline fibrous structure to diverge from a 

 central point to be stellate, and in one crystal before me the radiating fibres 

 are nearly four inches long. 



Pattersonite. Basal cleavage imperfect, rarely if ever presenting an hexago- 

 nal prism, but disposed to present triangular plates, which joining make a sub- 

 tetrahedral mass. The laminae are not flexible and but slightly translucent. 

 The color is metallic, bluish gray, resembling Zinc. The streak is grayish. 

 Before the blowpipe parts with its water, but does not exfoliate like Jefferisite, 

 nor does it intumesce like CryophyUite and Lepidomelane, both of which fuse 

 easily. "With borax melts into a black bead. Does not dissolve in muriatic 

 acid. Hardness about two. Under the microscope, with a power of one hun- 

 dred diameters, many imperfect black plates may be observed, some of which 

 are hexagonal, and they are probably one of the oxides of iron, Gdlhite 9 



This mineral may easily be distinguished from Muscovite by its crystalline 

 form, by its color and by its opacity. From Clinochlore by its lighter color, its 

 form of crystals, its transparency and its want of elasticity of laminae. From 

 CryophyUite by its lighter color and its want of easy fusibility. From Lepido- 

 melane by its lighter color, its want of easy fusibility, its crystalline form, &c. 



A third study of the ICTERIDJE. 



BY JOHN CASSIN. 



3. Sub-family Ictehin^e. 



Having for examination one of the most extensive collections of the birds of 

 this group ever got together, and which includes a large number of specimens 

 in young and immature plumage, as well as adults, with the sexes carefully 

 marked, I have given short descriptions of all the species, and the various 

 plumages of females and young, so far as they can be clearly determined. Of 

 such species as I have not specimens, but of which I have no reason to doubt 

 the validity, I have copied the original descriptions. 



1867.] 




46 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



This large and comprehensiTe series is composed essentially of the collection 

 of the Philadelphia Academy, the fine and in fact extraordinary collection of 

 the Smithsonian Institution, placed at my disposal with the usual generosity 

 and true scientific spirit of that great Institution by Professor Joseph Henry, 

 its accomplished Secretary, and the fine collection of my friend, that dis- 

 tinguished ornithologist, Mr. George N. Lawrence, of New York. The collec- 

 tion of the Philadelphia Academy contains nearly all the species mentioned in 

 this memoir, mainly derived from the Massena collection, but the labels indi- 

 cating loQ^lity are not always sufficiently explicit, — in which respect, however, 

 those of the Smithsonian Institution and of Mr. Lawrence are generally entirely 

 authentic and satisfactory. 



I. Genus ICTERUS, Brisson. 



Genus Icterus, Briss. Orn., ii. p. 85 (1T60), 



1. Icterus. 



1. Icterus vulgaris, Daudin. 



Icterus vulgaris, Daud. Traite d'Om. ii. p. 340 (1800). 



Oriolus Icterus, Linn., Syst. Xat. i. p. 161 (1766). 



Coracias Xanthornus, Scop., Ann. Hist. Nat. i. p. 39 (1768) ; not C. Xan- 

 thornus, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 108 (1758). 

 Aud. B. of Am., oct. ed., vii. pi. 499. Buff. PI. Enl. 532. Catesby Car. 

 App. pi. 5. 



Large ; plumage of the throat and neck in front elongated, linear and pointed ; bill 

 nearly straight or slightly curved. A naked space behind the eye. Wing rather long, 

 third and fourth quills longest ; tail rather long, feet robust. Adult p. Head black ; back, 

 wings and tail black ; shoulders yellow, greater coverts white, and edges of shorter quills 

 white, forming a longitudinal band of white on the wing. Neck behind, rump, and entire 

 under parts usually rich orange yellow, frequently paler yellow, and ineUning to lemon or 

 sulphur yellow. Bill dark bluish-black, base of under mandible light blue, frequently 

 nearly white: legs bluish-brown. Total length about 9}4 to 10 inches ; wing 4J^ to 5, tail 4 

 to 4*^ inches. Younger. Like the adtilt, but with the VjJaek plumage tinged with brown. 

 Quills dark brown, imder parts dtill gamboge-yellow. Total length about 9 inches. 



Hah. — Northern South America, Venezuela, Guiana, Rio Negro, northern Brazil, 

 Jamaica? southern United States? Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus. Smiths., 

 Washington. 



Easily recognized by its lengthened beard-like feathers on the throat and 

 neck, its large size, and wide stripe of white through the wing longitudinally 

 from the yellow of the shoulder to the end of the secondary quills. The next 

 species has. however, all these characters, and is probably not distinct. I have 

 only seen this species from Northern South America, though one specimen in 

 the Smiths. Mus. is undoubtedly from Jamaica ; but this bird is so common in 

 cages that almost any locality is possible ! 



2. Icterus loxgirostris, (Vieillot). 



Agelaius longirostris, Vieill. Nouv. Diet, xxxiv. p. 547 (1819). 

 Icterus longirostris, (Vieill.) Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 435. 



BoS.— Northern South America ; " Carthagena, New Grenada " ( Verreaux). Spec, in Mus. 

 Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



This species, if such it is, may be distinguished from the preceding by its 

 more slender and rather longer bill, and the specimens that I have seen are 

 a pale lemon-yellow, instead of the usual orange-yellow of /. vulgaris ; but it 

 has the same description of lengthened and linear feathers on the neck in 

 front, and the longitudinal band of white on the wing. In this bird the black 

 of the head perhaps extends downwards on the neck further than in the pre- 

 ceding, but the general distribution of colors is very nearly the same. The 

 character indicated by Bonaparte as above, " sed cervice nigra" I fail to recog- 

 nize. It is a spfecies of but very imperfect respectability. 



One specimen in the Smithsonian Mus., labelled as this bird in the hand- 

 writing of that excellent ornithologist, Jules Verreaux, is from Carthagena, 

 New Grenada ; others, in the Academy Mus., are without labels indicating 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 47 



locality. This bird and the preceding are not uncommon in the cities of the 

 United States on the Atlantic seaboard, as cage-birds. 



3. Icterus acrantius (Hahn.) ♦ 



Xanthornus aui-antius, Hahn, Voeg. pt. tI. p. 1 (1820). 

 " Xanthornus aurantius, Wagler,'' Hahn, as above. 

 Oriolus Jamacaii, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 391 (1788). 



Jamacaii Brasiliensibus, Marcg. et Piso, Hist. Nat. Brasil, p. 198 (1648). 

 Hahn, Voeg. vi. pi. 1. Prevost, Ois. Exot. pi. 70. 



Easily distinguished from the preceding by the feathers of the throat and neck 

 being somewliat lengthened only, but of the usual form (not linear nor pointed, as in the 

 preceding). Greater wing coverts black, a large triangular spot of white on the wing (not 

 a long wide stripe, as in the preceding). Naked space behind the eye, small. 



Large, bill nearly straight, pointed ; wing rather long, third, fourth and fifth quills long- 

 est; tail long; feet robust. Head, back, wings and tail black, shoulders orange-yellow, 

 wing with a large triangular spot of white. Neck behind, rump, and entire under parts 

 rich orange-yellow. Bill bluish-black, lighter at base of under mandible ; legs dark brown. 

 Total length about 10 inches ; wing 43^, tail 4}^ to 4% inches. Adult male. Female rather 

 smaller, but similar in colors. 



fla6.— Brazil ; Bahia; Ceara. Spec, in BIus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Washing- 

 ton. 



This species cam readily be distinguished from /. vulgaris, with which it has 

 been frequently confounded, by the absence of the long beard-like feathers of 

 the throat which characterize the former bird, and other strong characters. 

 The fine orange color prevailing in this group of birds attains a ma.ximum in 

 this beautiful species, and seems especially rich and inclining to brilliant red- 

 dish in specimens from Northern Brazil. This bird and /. guLaris are the larg- 

 est of this genus, both being rather larger than /. vulgaris. 



The proper name, by right of priority, for this species, is undoubtedly Jama- 

 caii of Gmelin, which seems to have been adopted from Marcgrave and Piso, 

 as above. This name bears no relation nor intimation whatever to the island 

 of Jamaica, but is apparently an attempt to Latinize the native name '■•Jamac^ 

 It is, however, too readily to be misunderstood, and on that account I do not 

 regard its adoption as expedient, especially as I have /. vulgaris undoubtedly 

 from Jamaica. Numerous specimens in the Acad. Mus. and in Smiths. Mus., 

 from Brazil. The finest plumage, and apparently most perfectly adult, are 

 from Ceara, Northern Brazil. 



2. Euopsar, 



4. Icterus croconotus (Wagler.) 



Psarocolius croconotus, Wagl. Isis, 1829, p. 757. 

 Dumont, Diet. Sci. Nat. Atlas Ois. pi. 50, fig. 1. Guerin. Icon. Reg. An. Ois. 

 pi. 20, fig. 1. 



Large, with the front, face and throat only black (not the entire head, as in the preceding 

 three species). Bill nearly straight, and rather short, a naked space behind the eye; wing 

 moderate ; tail rather long ; legs stout. Adult J. Head above, and entire body above and 

 below rich orange-yellow, tinged with red, especially on the top of the head and neck be- 

 hind. Front and wide space on the throat, and sides of the head enclosing the eyes, shin- 

 ing black. Wings and tail black, shoulders orange-yellow ; a triangular spot on the wing, 

 white, scapulars yellow, tipped with black, under wing coverts tine chrome yellow. In 

 some specimens there are a few black feathers on the back. Bill bluish-bro\TO, lighter at 

 base of under mandible. Total length about 93^ inches ; wing i%, tail 4'^ inches. Female. 

 Like the male, but smaller, and yellow plumage frequently tinged with dull gamboge 

 yellow. Total length about 8J^ inches. In some specimens of this species the feathers of 

 the throat and neck in front are somewhat elongated and linear (as in /. vulgaris). 



fiixfe.— Brazil ; Bolivia; "head waters of the river Huallaga, Peru." Spec, in Mus. Acad. 

 Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Inst. Washington. 



This splendid species may be regarded as rivalling the preceding (/. auran- 

 tius), and is another beautiful bird. Numerous specimens in the Smiths. Mus. 

 are from the Rio Parana, Brazil, and other localities in that countrj-, from Bo- 

 livia, and in a fine collection made by Mr. Walter S. Church on the river 

 Huallaga, Peru, as above. The Acad, specimens are from Brazil ; specimens 

 from Capt. Page's expedition to the Rio Parana, and labelled " Brazil," are the 

 smallest. The figures cited above are sufficiently good for the easy recognition 

 of this fine species, which has often been confounded with the preceding. 



1867.] 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



5. Icterus pectoralis (Wagler). 



Psarocolius pectoralis, Wagl. Isis, 1829, p. 755. 

 Icterus guttulatus, Lafres. Mag. Zool. 1844, p. 1. 

 Mag. Zool. 1844, pi. 52. Des Murs, Icon. Orn. pi. 10. 



Adult. About the size of the preceding, I. croconoius. Breast spotted with black, shorter 

 quills widely edged externally with white, back black. Head above, sides of neck, 

 rump, and entire under parts, orange-ydUnv, deepest and reddish-orange on the head. 

 Throat, lores, back, vyings and tail black. Base of tail pale yellow ; shafts of tail feathers 

 (at base) white ; bill bluish, lighter at base of lower mandible ; legs light colored (in skins). 

 Total length about 8}^ to 9 inches ; wing 4 to 4}^, tail 4 to i)i inches. 



Younger. Tail olive-green, quills dull brown ; black plumage of the back edged with 

 ■greenish. 



Hah. — Central America; Nicaragua; Costa Rica. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., and 

 Smiths. Mus. Washington. 



Easily recognized by its spotted breast, and well represented in the plates 

 cited above. Specimens in tbe Acad. Mus., Philada., from San Juan de Nica- 

 ragua and Coban, Vera Paz, and in the Smiths. Mus., Washington, from Nica- 

 ragua and Costa Rica. A very fine, large species, apparently abundant in 

 those countries. The edging of the shorter quills forms a long triangular spot 

 of white in the terminal half of the wing, and there is a smaller spot of white 

 near the base of the first primaries. Specimens from Nicaragua are the largest. 



6. Icterus pcstulatus (Wagler). 



Psarocolius pustulatus, Wagl. Isis, 1829, p. 757. 



Pendulinus Californicus, Less. Rev. Zool. 1844, p. 436. Oeuv. Buff. Supp. 

 Yii. p. 333. 



Adult cf. Smaller. Back with longitudinal ovate spots of black, detached, isolated, and 

 frequently not numerous in the adult, but larger, confluent, and inclining to form longitu- 

 dinal stripes of black on the back in the younger or adolescent male. Head and body 

 above and below orange-yellow, frequently deep reddish-orange on the head and breast. 

 Throat, lores, wings and tail black. Shoulders yellow, medial coverts of the wing white, 

 forming a wide transverse or diagonal band on the wing ; all the quills, except the first, 

 widely edged with white ; tail black, tipped with white and pale yellow at base, shafts white 

 (at base of tail). Bill bluish, paler at base of lower mandible ; legs light bluish-grey (in 

 skins). Total length about 1]A to 8 inches ; wing 3J^ to 4, tail 3^ to 3% inches. 



?. Entire upper parts yellowish olive, tinged with ashy on the back, and with ovate 

 brovmish-black spots (on the back). Under parts greenish-yellow, throat black, wings ashy 

 brown, all the coverts and quills edged with white ; tail olive green. Total length about 

 7 inches. Young (J. Like the female, but with the brilliant reddish-orange appearing on 

 the head in front and sides of the neck ; white edgings of the quills and coverts more con- 

 spicuous. 



Hab. — Mexico (Mazatlan). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



Numerous specimens in the Acad. Mus., Philada., labelled as from Mexico, 

 and in the Smiths. Mus. ; also from Mexico, the latter being mainly in the large 

 and valuable collections of Col. A. J. Grayson and Capt. John Xantus, from 

 Mazatlan and other localities in Western Mexico. In the adolescent and 

 nearly mature plumage this bird is Pendulinus CaJifornieus, Lesson, as above. 



This is a very handsome small species, not difficult to recognize by the ovate 

 longitudinal spots of the back (unde nomen, pustulatus), and the deep reddish- 

 orange (or orange-red) of the head and breast. It appears to l)e an abundant 

 species of Western Mexico. This species does not appear to have been figured 

 by any author. 



7. Icterus Graysojjii, nobis. 



Large ; resembling the preceding (I. pustulatus), but much larger, and with very few or 

 no spots on the back. About the size of I. gularis, but not resernbling that species. Bill 

 nearly straight, gradually tapering, and not unusually thick at base ; wmg moderate, fourth 

 quill longest ; tertiaries rather long ; tail moderate or rather long ; legs and feet moderate. 



Adnlt rf. Entire plumage of the head and body orange-yellow, rather lighter and duller 

 on the back, deeper, and inclining to reddish-orange on the head in front, sides of the neck 

 and breast. Back with a few small, partially concealed spots of black. Lores, throat, 

 wings and tail black. Shoulders yellow, greater coverts, and all the quills except the first, 

 widely edged with white on their owter edges. Scapulars yellow, edged externally with 

 black. Greater wing coverts and primaries edged also with white on their tmier "edges. 

 Tail black, tipped with ashy white, and with its basal one-fourth yellow, where also the 

 shafts of the feathers are white. Bill and legs bluish, the latter darker. Total length about 

 9% inches ; vring 4J4, tail 3% inches. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Adult 9 ? Smaller ; total length 8 inclies ; entire upper parts olive-green, with obscure 

 darker shades on the back; under parts greenisli-yellow. Throat black, wings dark 

 brown, coverts and quills edged with white. Tail yellowish olive-green, obscurely tipped 

 with ashy white. 



Hab. — Tres Marias Islands, western coast of Mexico. Discovered by Col. A. J. Grayson, 

 of Mazatlan, Mexico. Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Inst. Washington. 



Single specimens only, labelled as male and female, are in the Smiths. Mus. 

 This fine species is nearly as large as the well known /. gularis of Mexico and 

 Nicaragua, which, however, it does not resemble, nor does it resemble inti- 

 mately any other species. It bears a general resemblance only to I. pustulaius, 

 but is much larger, and has the back nearly uniform with other upper parts, 

 a few small black spots only being apparent. 



This handsome bird is gratefully dedicated to its discoverer, Col. A. J. Grayson, 

 a gentleman whose indefatigable exertions have greatly elucidated the zoology 

 of Western Mexico, and whose isolated position only prevents him from attain- 

 ing high reputation as a naturalist. As yet, Col. Grayson has only found 

 this bird in the Tres Marias Islands, in the Pacific Ocean, nearly west of San- 

 Bias, and about one hundred miles southwest of Mazatlan, Mexico. 



8. Icterus Sclateri, nobis. 



" Icterus mentalis, Less.," Sclat. Cat. Am. Birds, p. 134. 



Resembling I. pustidatus, but rather larger, and with the back black and less white ort' 

 the wings. Plain and rather pale orange-yellow (not reddish-yellow, as in I. pustulafus).- 

 Also somewhat resembles /. t/ularis, but much sinaller.' 



Adult cf . Head, rump and entire under parts plain but rich orange-yellow ; throat, lores, 

 back, wings and tail black. The plumage of the back white at base, subtermuially yellow, 

 and tipped with black ; the yellow appearing on the edges of the feathers. Scapulars 

 white and yellow, and widely tipped with black. Shoulders yellow, the longest smaller 

 coverts tipped with white, which forms a diagonal narrowband; greater coverts black, 

 narrowly tipped with white on their outer webs ; quills edged with wliite, narrow on the 

 primaries, wide on the shorter tertiaries ; a large spot of white on tlie wing at the base of 

 the primaries. Tail black, yellow at base, and narrowly tipped witli grayish-white ; bill 

 bluish, lighter at the base of the under mandible; legs bluish-gray. Total length about 8 

 inches ; wing 41^, tail 4V^ inches. 



Younger rf or ? ? Entire plumage of the head and body plain dull lemon-yellow, tinged 

 with green on the body above, and with numerous large spots of brownisli-black on the 

 back. Throat black, wings dull brown, greater coverts and quills edged with grayish- 

 white, tail olive-green. Total length 7% inches ; wing 3%, tail 3% inches. The specimen 

 now described is labelled as a female by the collector. 



Hab. — Nicaragua; "San Juan;" "Pres Grenada;" Guatemala; " San Geronimio." Spec, 

 in Mus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



This is the species alluded to by Dr. Sclater, Cat. Am. Birds, p. 134, and 

 perhaps by Dr. Cabanis, Mus. Hein. i. p. 185, as Icterus mentalis, Lesson, which 

 it is not, however, nor very nearly resembling it, either by that name or its 

 other name, which is Icterus gularis, Wagler. It is a very handsome small spe- 

 cies, common in collections from Nicaragua and Guatemala, of which numer- 

 ous specimens are in the Acad. Mus., certainly from the vicinity of San Juan, 

 and in the Smiths. Mus. from various localities in both countries. Specimens 

 in Smitlis. Mus., from Mr. Salvin's collections in Guatemala, are labelled " /c- 

 terus menialii " by him, and this is therefore undoubtedly the bird alluded to 

 by him and Dr. Sclater under that name as above, and elsewhere. 



3. Andriopsar, 



9. IcTERU.s GULARIS (Waglcr). 



Psarocolius gularis, Wagl. Isis, 1829, p. Y54. 



Icterus mentalis, Less. Cent. Zool. p. Ill (1830). 



" Cacicus mentalis, Wagler, Isis," Less., as above. 

 Des Murs, Icon. Orn. pi. 9. Lesson, Cent. Zool. pi. 41. Gervais, Atl. Zool. 

 Orn. pi. 36. 



Large; bill thick, strong, r.ither short, and abruptly tapering to a sharp point; wing 

 moderate, third and fourth quills usually longest and nearly equal ; tail moderate ; legs 

 rather strong; claws strong, curved. 



Adult cf. Back lustrous V)lack. Head, rump, and entire under parts rich orange-yellow. 

 Lores anil throat black, united by a narrow band at the base of the under mandible. Back,. 

 wings and tail black, the last yellow at base ; shoulders yellow, greater coverts black, 



1867] 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



tipped with white, primaries narrowly edged, tertiaries rather widely edged with white, in 

 some specimens the tail is very narrowly tipped with grayish-white. Bill bluish or horn- 

 color, lighter at the base of the under mandible ; legs light brown. A small white tri- 

 angular spot at base of primaries. Total length aVjout 9X inches; wing 4}^, tail 4 inches. 



Adult ?. Generalh' like the male, but with the back and wing coverts yellowish olive- 

 green ; tail brownish-olive ; throat black. Wings (and shoulders) grayish-brown, coverts 

 and quills edged with grajish-white. Total length 9yi inches. 



Young r^. Like the female, but with the black' beginning to appear on the back and sca- 

 pulars ; tail brownish-black. 



Bab. — Mexico ; Nicaragua. Spec, in SIus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Inst. Wash- 

 ington. 



Easily recognized by its large size, and thick, straight bill. This fine species 

 is one of the largest and most robust of the group. Numerous specimens in 

 the Smiths. Mus. from Mexico. — " Mirador, near Vera Cruz," "Salvador,' 

 " Barcio,'" " San Jeronimo, Vera Paz,'' and other localities, and in the Acad. 

 Mus. from the city of Mexico, from San Juan de Nicaragua, and others labelled 

 only " Mexico." 



Specimens of this bird from San Juan de Nicaragua, undoubtedly authentic 

 in locality, are quite as large as others from Mexico. This species is certainly 

 Icterus mejitalis, Less., as above, upon the examination of the description of 

 "which it will be found that a large specimen is required, instead of smaller, as 

 stated by eminent ornithologists. Well represented in Des Murs' plate, above 

 cited ; Lesson's plates are not entirely correct. 



10. Icterus Xasthornus (Gmelin). 



Oriolus Xanthornus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 391 (1788). 



Xanthornus linnsei, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 434 (1850). 



Xanthornus nigrogularis, Hahn, Voeg. pt. v. p. 1 (1820) ? 

 Briss. Orn. ii. pi. 11, fig. 2. Bufi'. PL Enl. 5. fig. 1. Shaw, Nat. Misc. vii pi. 

 243. Prevost, Ois. Exot. pi. 70. Hahn, Voeg. pt. v. pi. 1 ? 



Smaller; entirely yellow, greenish on the back ; throat, wings and tail black. Bill short, 

 straight, thick at base ; wing rather short, third and fourth quills longest; tail moderate; 

 legs rather strong. Total length about 7 to 73^ inches ; wing .3}^, tail 3^ to 3^4 inches. 



Adult rf. Entire head and body rather dark lemon-yellow, inclining to orange on the 

 .sides of the neck and breast, usually strongly tinged with greenish on the back, but some- 

 times slighth' only. Lores and throat with a narrow connecting line at the base of the 

 under mandible, black. Shoulders yellow, wings black, greater coverts tipped with white, 

 primaries very narrowly edged, tertiaries more widely edged with white; a triangular spot 

 of white at base of primaries. Tail black, pale yellow at base, and usually very slightly 

 tipped with grayish-white ; bill and feet bluish. "Scapulars with large, partially concealeti 

 spots of brownish-black. 



Adult 9 . Like the male, but with the entire upper parts strongly tinged with olive- 

 green ; yellow of the under parts duller and less inclined to orange on the breast. Wings 

 dark brown; tail olive-green. About the size of the male. Young J- Like the female, but 

 with the tail black. 



Hab. — South America ; Venezuela ; Cayenne ; Trinidad ; Xorthern Brazil. Spec, in Mus. 

 Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Inst. Washington. 



An abundant and well known species, of which specimens are in all collec- 

 tions in this country. Varies in the shade of yellow, but easily recognized. 

 The plates of Buffon and Prevost, as above given, are good representations of 

 this species. 



11. Icterus auratus, Bonaparte. 



" Icterus auratus, Du Bus, Mus. Brux." Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 435 (1850). 

 " Icterus mexicanus, Bonap. MSS." J. Verreaux's label. 

 "Xanthornus mexicanus, Brisson," Bonap. Compt. Rend. 1853, p. 835. 

 "Xanthornus nigrogularis, Hahn," Bonap. as above. 



Larger than the preceding (7. ^anttornus), but resembling it; colors nearly the same, 

 but the yellow clearer, and with verj' little tinge of olive on the back in the adult; black of 

 the throat longer and much wider. Bill short, thick ; wing moderate, third and fourth 

 quills longest ; tail moderate. 



Adult (J. Head and body above and below rather dark lemon-yellow, inclining to orange 

 on the sides of the neck and breast. Lores and throat, and narrow connecting line at base 

 of lower mandible, black. Wing black, shoulders vellow. greater coverts tipped with white, 

 primaries very narrowly edged, tertiaries more widelv ed'eed with white. Tail black, pale 

 yellow at base ; bill and legs bluish. Total length about 8}^ inches ; wing 4, tail 3% inches. 



fla6.— Mexico. Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Inst. Washington. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 51 



Resembles the preceding (/. Xanthornus), but much larger, and with the 

 yellow of the plumage more clear and darker yellow, inclining to orange, and 

 less tinged with green on the upper parts of the body. Specimens in the 

 Smiths. Mus. are from Mexico. This is undoubtedly the bird alluded to by the 

 Prince Bonaparte asX. mexicanus and X.nigrogularii in Compt. Rend., as above 

 cited, and I regard it also as /. auratus, Bonap. Consp. Av. as above, which 

 species is very probably alluded to in Compt. Rend. (1853, p. 835) as in the 

 Sluseum at Brussels. 



This bird resembles, in general characters, the immediately preceding, but is 

 a distinct species. The most available characters for recognition are its larger 

 size and clearer yellow color. 



12. Icterus mesomelas (Wagler). 



Psarocolius mesomelas, Wagl. Isis, 1829, p. 755. 

 Icterus atrigularis, Less. Cent. Zool. p. 73 (1830). 



Oriolus musicus, Cabot, Jour. Nat. Hist. Soc. Boston, iv. p. 465 (1844). 

 Less. Cent. Zool. pi. 22. Gerv. Atl. Zool. Orn. pi. 35. 



Lemon-yellow, outer feathers of the tail yellow, shorter quills edged with pale yellowish- 

 white, forming a conspicuous longitudinal stripe on the wing. Bill thick, slightly curved, 

 wing moderate, third and fourth quills longest; tail long, graduated. 



Adult cf . Back, wings and middle feathers of the tail black. Lores and throat, and a 

 narrow frontal band, black. All other parts lemon or chrome-yellow, rather darker on the 

 head. Shoulders yellow, outer feathers of the tail pale yellow, under wing coverts yellow. 

 Shorter quills conspicuously edged with yellowish-wHite; primaries narrowly edged on 

 their terminal half with grayish-white. Bill and feet bluish-black, the former light blue afc 

 base of under mandible. Total length about 9 inches; wing 31^ to Sj^.tail 4:% to 4}-^ inches. 



Female like the male, but rather smaller. Total length about 8}^ inches. Yellow plu- 

 mage, slightly tinged with greenish on the rump and abdomen. 



Younger. Black plumage of the back edged with yellowish-green ; yellow plumage 

 strongly tinged with dull green. 



Bab. — Mexico; northern and central Guatemala; Yucatan. Spec. in Mus. Acad. Philada., 

 and Mus. Smiths. Inst. Washington. 



Much resembles the species next succeeding (/. Salvimi), but is smaller, and 

 can easily be distinguished by the longitudinal line on the wing, formed by the 

 edgings of the shorter quills. Numerous specimens are in the Smiths. Mus. 

 from Cordova and Orizaba, Mexico, and from central and northern Guatemala. 

 Specimens in the Acad. Mus. are labelled " Mexico." This species is sufficiently 

 well given in the plates above cited for recognition, but the characteristic light 

 yellow edgings of the shorter quills, which form a conspicuous narrow band, 

 are not fully shown. This fine species seems to be abundant in Mexico, and 

 extends its range into Yucatan and the northern and central districts of Guate- 

 mala, south of which it is replaced by the next succeeding larger species (/. 

 Salvinii). 



13. IcTBRUs Salvinii, nobis. 



Much resembling the preceding, but larger, and with the quills entirely black (no trace 

 of the yellowish-white edgings of the shorter quills, which are conspicuous in the prece- 

 ding species). Bill strong, somewhat cui'ved ; wing rather long, third, fourth and fifth 

 quills longest and nearly equal ; tail rather long, graduated feathers of the tail rather nar- 

 row ; feet strong. 



Adult cf . Head, rump, and entire under parts of the body fine lemon or chrome-yellow, 

 shoulders and middle coverts of the wing yellow. Wide space on the lores and throat 

 black. Back, scapulars, wings, and middle feathers of the tail deep black, primaries very 

 faintly edged with grayish-white in their terminal half^all other quills clear lustrous 

 black). Bill dark bluish or horn-color; feet bluish; unaeri wing coverts yellow. Total 

 length about 9J/^ to 10 inches ; wing 4 to i^, tail VA to 4%, inches. 



Y'ounger. Like the adult, but with the black feathers of the back edged with dull green ; 

 quills dark brown, edged with dull greenish-white ; yellow of the upper parts tinged with 

 green. Total length about 0}4 inches. 



-Haft.— Costa RiCa ; "Turrialba;" "San Carlos" (Mr. J. Carmiol); Nicaragua; "Greytown" 

 (Mr. Holland) ; New Grenada ; " Atrato River" (Capt. N. Michler) ; " Bogota" (Mr. Lawrence) ; 

 Venezuela. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., in Mus. Smiths. Inst. Washington, and in coll. 

 Mr. Lawrence, New York. 



Very similar to the immediately preceding (/. mesomelas), but is larger, and 

 has the wing entirely black or very narrowly edged on the primaries only, and 

 inhabits more southern regions of Central America and northern South 



1867.] 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



America. Numerous specimens in the Mus. Smiths. Inst, are from Greytown, 

 Nicaragua, and various localities in Costa Rica. Specimens in Acad. Mus. are 

 from Bogota, New Grenada, and from Venezuela, and are undoubtedly correct 

 in locality. 



This fine species is dedicated to Osbert Salvin, Esq., of London, a most 

 accomplished ornithologist, and most liberal patron of the natural sciences. 



14. Icterus Grace-Anx.e, nobis. 



In a large and highly interesting collection made by the Hon. John Randolph 

 Clay, while United States Minister to Peru, and now in the possession of the 

 Philadelphia Academy, there is one specimen of a small species of this group 

 which I cannot identify from any figure or description. It is a small thick- 

 biiled species, about the size of I. J^anihornus, hnt with colors much resembling 

 those of /. mesomelas ; easily distinguished, though, from the latter, by its 

 smaller size, and by having the tail entirely black and a very conspicuous, 

 longitudinal spot of white in the middle third of its wing. It is very probably 

 the bird alluded to by the Prince Bonaparte under the head of Xanthornus 

 mesomelas, Consp. Av. i. p. 434, " var. ex Peru, Minor. An species ?'' It is a 

 quite distinct and strongly marked species. 



Adult. About the size of I. Xanthornus, but does not resemble It in colors ; smaller than 

 /. mesomelas, but similar to that species in general colors only, and easily distinguished in 

 having a conspicuous longitudinal spot of white in the middle of the wiug, and the tail en- 

 tirely black. Head and neck above, rump and entire under parts (except the throat) lemon 

 yellow; throat, lores, wings, tail, and a wide transverse band across the back, black. 

 Shoulders and under wing coverts yellow, the greater wing covens white, wiiich color is 

 partially concealed by the yellow of the shoulders. Outer edges of the shorter quills, in 

 their middle third, white, forming a longitudinal spot about the middle of the wing. In 

 the present specimen the outer feathers of the tail are edged and narrowly tipped with 

 ashy, nearly white at the ends, and the next two feathers of tlie tail are also naVrowly tipped 

 with ashy-white. Bill and feet bluish-black, paler at the base of the under mandible. 



Total length 1]4 inches ; wing 3^, tail Z% inches. 



JHob. — Western South America ; Peru ? Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



The fine collection of Mr. Clay, though mainly composed of birds of Peru, 

 contained also some species of Ecuador and Bolivia, or hitherto only known as 

 from those countries. The locality of the present species cannot therefore be 

 given positively, but it is undoubtedly from western South America. 



This handsome little bird I have named in honor of my highly esteemed 

 frieud, Miss Grace Anna Lewis, of this city: accomplished as a teacher of 

 Natural History, conscientious in all social duties and relations, faithful in her 

 friendships. 



15. Icterus Giraudii, Cassin. 



Icterus Giraudii, Cass. Proc. Acad. Philada. 1847, p. 333. 

 Xanthornus chrjsater. Less. Oeuv. Buff. Supp. vii. p. 332 (1847)? 

 Icterus melanopterus, Hartl. Rev. Zool. 1849, p. 275. 

 Jour. Acad. Philada. i. pi. 17 (quarto). 



Resembling the three last preceding in colors, but with the back clear yellow, uniform 

 with the other upper parts (not black, as in /. mesomdas, I. Salvinii, and /. Gruce-Annai). Bill 

 nearly straight, conic, thick at base, and gradually pointed; wing rather long, third and 

 fourth quills longest; tail moderate, graduated; feet moderate. 



Adult cf . Head and eutire body above and below rich chrome or sulphur-yellow, with a 

 tinge of orange on the under parts ; shoulders and inferior coverts of the wing yellow. 

 Front, lores, and wide space on the throat and neck, enclosing the eyes, black; wings and 

 tail black. Scapulars yellow, tipped with black (wings clear lustrous blacjf, with paler 

 edgings only towards the ends of the primaries ; tail clear black, back yellow, not black, as 

 in the preceding three species). Bill dark bluish, or horn-color ; legs bluish-gray. Total 

 length about 8}^ inches; wing 4, tail 4^^ inches. 



Younger. Entire upper parts tinged with dull greenish, under parts with dull orange or 

 gamboge; wings brownish-black, quills narrowly edged with dull yellowish-green; tail 

 dark brown ; shoulders black or dark brown. 



Young. Entire plumage dull greenish-yellow, black appearing on the throat, wings and 

 tail dark brown, outer feathers of the tail with their shafts white. Total length about 7K 

 inches. 



Hab.— Southern Central America and northern South America; Mexico? Spec, in Mus. 

 Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Inst. Washington. 



This very handsome species is another of those in which the plumage is 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



maiuly rich lemon, chrome, or sulphur-yello-n', not orange, nor tinged with 

 red, as in many others of this group. A fine large species, with the wings and 

 tail clear shining black, the primaries only narrowly edged with grayish-white 

 on their terminal half. 



Numerous specimens in Smiths. JIus. from Central Guatemala, and from the 

 Rio Atrato (Capt. Michler's Expedition). Specimens in Acad. Mus. from Guate- 

 mala, Panama (Mr. J. G. Bell, collected by himself), and Bogota, New Grenada. 

 This bird is quite probably X. chrysater, Lesson, as above, which is described 

 as from Mexico, but from which country I have not seen it. 



4. Ateleopsar. 



16. Icterus melanocephalus (Wagler). 



Psarocolius melanocephalus, Wagl. Isis, 1829, p, 756. 

 Icterus graduacauda, Less. Rev. Zool. 1839, p. 105. 

 Cassin, B. of Cal. and Texas, pi. 21. 



Head black, wings and tail black (wings clear black, the quills in the adult without any 

 edgings of white, and very narrow and obscure only in young plumage). Bill rather short, 

 nearly straight, culmen somewhat flattened ; wing moderate, third and fourth quills long- 

 est ; tail rather long, graduated ; legs strong. 



Adult (J. Head and neck black, body above and below sulphur-yellow, tinged with green 

 on the back, and frequently on the entire upper parts of the body. Wings and tail clear 

 black. Bill dark horn-color, base of under mandible blue, which is succeeded by a trian- 

 gular spot of yellowish-white ; legs dark brown. Total length 8 to 8)4 inches ; wing 3% to 

 4, tail 4 inches. 



Younger. Upper parts of body yellowish-green, quills narrowly edged with grayish- 

 white, bill blue at base. Younger? Upper parts dark olive-green, wings and tail brownish- 

 black, shoulders green, quills narrowly edged with grayish-white, outer tail feathers dark 

 yellowish-green, bill blue at base. Total length about 8 inches. 



fla6.— Southern Blexico; Jalapa (D'Oca); Mirador (Sartorius); Orizaba (Sumichrast). 

 Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



This species and the next (/. Auduhonii) form a peculiar group of the genus 

 Icterus, -li, indeed, they are not entitled to generic distinction. The structure 

 presents peculiarities in this group, the bill being flattened slightlj- on the cul- 

 men, wings and tail long, and the colors of the plumage are quite peculiar. 



Specimens in the Smiths. Mus. are exclusively from Mexico. This bird is 

 smaller than the next succeeding, and appears to be quite distinct ; though ia 

 plumage not quite mature, there are some light edgings of the shorter quills, 

 as here described. In this nearly adult plumage it is described by Wagler, as 

 cited above : " remigibus exlus stricte griseo-marginatis." This plumage also is 

 described by me in " Birds of California and Texas," p. 139, though the more 

 fully adult is figured. In the next species the quills are edged with white in 

 all ages. The name melanocephalus is pre-occupied by Hahu, as below, under 

 /. Parisorum. 



17. Icterus Auduboxii, Giraud. 



Icterus Audubonii, Gir. B. of Texas, p. 5 (1841). 



Like the preceding, but larger, and with the shorter quills widely edged with white. Bill 

 nearly straight, eulmen flattened, third and fourth quills longest; tail rather long, gradua- 

 ted; legs strong. 



Adult (J. Head, wings and tail black, body above and below sulphur yellow, tinged with 

 green on the back more or less strongly, according to age or season. Quills, especially the 

 shorter tertiaries, edged externally with grayish-white ; bill dark horn-color, base of under 

 mandible bluish ; legs dark brown. 



Y'ounger. Quills brownish-black, tail with the outer feathers dull green. Total length 

 (adult) about 9}^ inches ; wing 4, tail 4 to ^/i inches. 



fTdfr.— Northern Mexico; Tamaulipas; Neuvo Leon (Gen. Couch); Texas (Mr. J. H. 

 Clark) ; New Mexico. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



Larger than the immediately preceding, but much resembling it, and with 

 the colors nearly the same. In this species the shorter quills are edged con- 

 spicuously withwhite at all ages, in which respect it differs from the prece- 

 ding, and it appears to inhabit exclusively Northern Mexico and the adjoining 

 districts of the United States. 



1867.] 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



5. Cassiculoidcs. 



18. Icterus Parisorum, Bonaparte. 



Icterus Parisorum, Bonap. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1837, p. 110. 



Icterus melanochrysura, Less. Rev. Zool. 1839, p. 105. 



Icterus Scottii, Couch, Proc. Acad. Philada. 1854, p. 66. 



Icterus melanocephalus, Hahn, Voeg. Am. pt. vi. p. 4 (1820) ? 

 Habn, Voeg. pt. vi. pi. 3? Baird, B. of N. A. pi. 61, fig. 1. Kept. U. S. and 

 Mex. Bound. Surv. Birds, pi. 19, fig. 1. 



Anterior half black, or head and neck, back and breast, black. Abdomen and rump 

 yellow, the latter generally tinged with greenish. Wings black, the greater coverts widely 

 tipped with white, shorter quills widely edged with white. Middle feathers of the tail 

 black, with their bases yellow; other feathers of the tail with their basal two-thirds yellow, 

 termin.al one-third black. Bill dark horn-color, base of under mandible pale blue; legs 

 bluish-brown. Bill straight, rather slender, pointed, culmen distinctly ridged; legs rather 

 strong ; wing long, third quill longest ; tail moderate. Adult male. Total length about 7 

 to 8 inches; wing 4 to ■Vy^, tail S^/, to 3^ inches. 



Younger cf- Entire head and back dark brown; rump greenish-yellow, under parts of 

 body dull pale yellow; tail olive-green ; outer feathers greenish-yellow at base; wings dull 

 brown, coverts tipped with white. Total length 7 inches. 



iJa6.— Mexico; Lower California ( Capt. Xautus) ; Texas; New Mexico. Spec, in Mas. 

 Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



This is another strange and peculiar form in the generic group Icterus, and 

 belongs almost as properly to Cassicus. The colors, too, are quite peculiar, 

 and approximate to the same group. It may be termed an analogue of Cassi- 

 eulus, in the genus Cassicus, if not more nearly related, but I am by no means 

 confident that this bird does not represent a peculiar generic division. Nu- 

 merous specimens in Smiths. Mus. from Northern Mexico and Lower Califor- 

 nia. This is the bird, I suspect, attempted to be represented in Hahn's plate, 

 above cited, but ■without success. It is, however, correctly and handsomely 

 given in Prof. Baird's plates, as cited. 



II. Genus PENDULINUS, Vieillot. 



Genus Pendulinus, Vieill. Analyse, p. 33 (1816). 



This group is composed of birds characterized by having more slender, 

 lengthened, and weaker forms than in Icterus, with more slender, curved, and 

 gradually tapering bills, and long tails, either rounded at the ends or gradua- 

 ted. It is, in my opinion, a distinct and strongly marked generic group, of 

 which the species here given as F. bonana is perhaps to be regarded as tj^pical. 

 The type of the genus, according to Vieillot, is the North American P. spuri- 

 us, but in this respect he is probably in error, that species being, very probably, 

 one of the most aberrant. Fifteen species of this genus are in the Museum of 

 the Philadelphia Academy and the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, 

 Washington. Three others given in the succeeding pages {P. rufigaster, P. ru- 

 fazillus, and P. chilensis) are not contained in either of the two collections 

 mentioned. In this group, as in the preceding, I have given short descriptions 

 of all the species of which I have any knowledge, and have copied the original 

 descriptions of the three species to me unknown, above mentioned. 



1. Bananivorus. 



1. Pendulinus Boxana (Linnjeus). 



Oriolus Bonana, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 162 (1766). 

 Pendulinus banana, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p. 316 (1816). 

 Buff. PL Enl. 535, fig. 1. 



Head, neck and breast dark chestnut ihoulders, rump and abdomen a paler shade of 

 chestnut, lightest on the rump. Bae' wings and tail black ; under wing coverts pale 

 chestnut ; upper and under tail cover frequently tipped with black. Bill dark horn-color, 

 paler at base of under mandible ; lej^ Drown. Bill curved, slender; wing rather long, third 

 quill longest; tail rather long, grad / ed. Adult cf- Total length about 7}^ inches ; wing 

 3J.^. tail SV^ inches. Female. Likf y j male, but smaller. Total length about 7 inches. 



Bat.— West Indies; Martiniqu'/ ciths. Mus.) Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. 

 Smiths. Washington. / / 



/ // [April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



Although having abundance of specimens before me in the Acad. Mus. and 

 Smiths. Mus., I am not able to state the islands of the West Indies inhabited 

 by this species, nor have I seen any other than the adult plumage. One speci- 

 men only in the Smiths. Mus. is undoubtedlj- from the island of Martinique, 

 but all others now before me are either labelled " West Indies " or " Antilles." 

 This is a quite peculiar, and, in adult plumage, an easily recognized species, 

 but is probably allied to the immediately succeeding (P. rufigaster). 



2. Pexdulinus rufigaster, Vieillot. 



Pendulinus rufigaster, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p. 321 (1816).. 



" Bananivorus rufigaster,. Bp. ex Vieill.," Bonap. Comp. Rend. 1853, p. 834. 



" Cette espdce, que je crois nouvelle, .a le ventre et les parties posterieures d'un roux ar- 

 dent ; le rest du plumage noir, ainsi que le bee et les pieds ; taille du carouge esclave (P. 

 dominicensis). EUe se trouve dans I'Araerique meridionale." Vieillot, as above. 



" Kigro ; capita, collo, pectoreque eastaneis ; uropygio, corpore subtus, tibiis, tectrieibus- 

 que alarum minoribus et inferioribus, fulvis. Le Troupiale enfitnU du Musee de Pari.s, 

 rapporte de la Guadaloupe par M. Moreau de Jonnes, nommS par Vieillot, Pendulinus rufi- 

 gaster et reuni k tort au spurius." Bonap. Compt. Rend., as above. 



Hab. — Gaudeloupe. Spec, in Paris Museum. 



These are the original descriptions of a bird given as distinct from P. bonana 

 by Bonaparte, as above cited, but which I have not seen. It seems to be 

 nearly related to that species, but may be an inhabitant of different islands, 

 and, like others in this memoir, persistently presenting some clearly pe- 

 culiar characters. On the f\iith of the description by Bonaparte, I give it as 

 probably a species of respectability, and his indication of the locality is im- 

 portant. It is given doubtfully by that great naturalist in Consp. Av. (i. p. 432) 

 as synonymous with P. spurius of North America, which I suppose is the tort 

 to which he alludes. 



3. Pendulinus rufaxillus, Bonaparte. 



Pendulinus rufaxillus, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 432 (1850). 



" Ex Mexico. Nigerrimus ; humeris cinnamomeo-castaneis ; teetricibus alarum mino- 

 ribus citrino-castaneis ; Cauda elougata; rostro elongato, acutissimo." Bonap., a.s above. 



This species I have not seen. It seems to resemble in colors of plumage, at 

 least, Agelaius pyrrhopterus, Vieill. (which is Hrjphantes pyrrhopterus of this 

 memoir), but that species was apparently known to the Prince Bonaparte, as 

 he gave it a name [Pendulinus periporp/tyrus, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 432.) 



2. Poliopsar. 



4. Pendulinus Wagleri (Sclater). 



Icterus Wagleri, Sclat. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1857, p. 1. 

 Psai'ocolius flavigaster, Wagl. Isis, 1829, p. 756. 

 Pendulinus dominicensis, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 432 (nee Linn.) 

 Baird, B. of N. A. pi. 61, fig. 2. Rept. U. S. and Mex. Bound. Surv,, Birds, 

 pi. 19, fig. 2. 



Larger ; head, neck and back black ; shoulders, rump and abdomen orange-yellow ; 

 wings and tail black, upper and under tail coverts black. The black on the breast sepa- 

 rated from the yellow of under parts of the body by a narrow band of chestnut, frequently 

 obscure, but generally strongly marked. Under wing coverts yellow. Bill long, curved, 

 bluish-black, lighter at base of under mandible ; legs dark brown ; wing rather long, third 

 and fourth quifis longest ; tail long ; legs rather short. Adult J. Total length about 9 

 Inches ; wing i]/i, tair4i^ inches. 



Young. Entire upper parts yellowish-green, inclining to clearer yellow on the head, and 

 green on the back ; throat black ; sides of neck and under parts of body dull yellow ; 

 wings dark brown, coverts edged with dull white ; shoulders greenish-yellow ; tail with 

 the middle feathers brownish-black, outer feathers yellowish-green. Total length about 

 8 inches. 



Younger. Entire upper parts of head and body dull olive-green ; under parts dull-pale 

 greenish-vellow. 



Hah. — Mexico; Guatemala; State of Coahuila, northern Mexico (Gen. Couch); Mazatlan 

 (Col. Grayson) ; San Geronimo, Guatemala (Mr. 0. Salvin). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., 

 and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



The under tail coverts being black, is a character to be remembered in com- 



1867.] 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



paring this fine species witli the next succeeding in this memoir [P. prostheme- 

 las), as tlie most immediately available character. It resembles and is nearly 

 allied to that species. Numerous specimens in Acad. Mus. and Smiths. Mus. 

 from Mexico and Guatemala, in both of which countries this handsome bird 

 seems to be abundant. 



5. Pendclixus prosthemelas (Strickland). 



Icterus prosthemelas, Strickl. Jard. Contr. Orn. 1850, p. 120. 

 Pendulinus Lessoni, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 432 (1850). 

 Jard. Contr. Orn. 1850, pi. 62. 



Ptesembling the preceding (/. Wagleri), hut smaller, and with the under tail coverts 

 yellow, uniform with the abdomen. Head, neek and back black ; shoulders, rump, abdo- 

 men and under tail coverts yellow ; a transverse band of chestnut separating the black 

 from the yellow on the breast, frequently strongly marked, but often obscure or imperfect. 

 Wings and tail clear black, longer upper tail coverts black, under wing coverts yellow. 

 Bill shorter than in the preceding, curved, rather thick at base ; wing moderate, third 

 quill longest; tail long. Bill bluish-black, pale blue at base of under mandible; legs 

 Virownish-black. (No white marks nor spots in wings nor tail.) Adult r?. Total length 

 about 8 to 8% inches ; wing 334, tail 3}^ to 3% inches. 



Young. Singularly resembling in colors /. mdanocephalus and Audubonii. Head and neck 

 in frontrblack ; entire upper parts of body greenish-yellow, shoulders and abdomen yellow. 

 Wings and tail black. Total length 73^ to 8 inches. Adolescent, with the black of the 

 adult beginning to appear on the back and scapulars, and presenting a mottled yellowish- 

 green and black, in which plumage this bird is P. Lessoni, Bonap., as above. 



Hab. — Guatemala; Costa Rica; southern Mexico. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., and 

 Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



This bird resembles the preceding (P. Wagleri), but is smaller, and has the 

 under tail coverts j^ellow instead of black. It is undoubtedly P. Lessoni of 

 Bonaparte, as suggested by that distinguished author in Compt. Rend. 1853, p. 

 834. Numerous specimens in the Smiths. JIus. are from countries above given ; 

 the type described by Strickland in the Acad. Mus. is labelled " Central 

 America." 



The young of this bird bears a strong resemblance in colors only to the 

 adult Icterus melanocephalus and 1. Auduhoni. Specimens in this young plu- 

 mage, and others with the black color beginning to appear on the back, are in 

 Smiths. Mus. Indifferently figured by Strickland, as above, but better than 

 Hahn's figures, and recognizable "with some exertion. 



6. Pexdclinus maccli-alatus (Cassin). 



Icterus maculi-alatus, Cass. Proc. Acad. Philada. 1847, p. 332. 

 Jour. Acad. Philada., quarto, i. pi. 16, fig. 1. 



Resembling the two species immediately preceding, but smaller than either, and having 

 the greater wing coverts with ovate spots of white at their tips. Primaries narrowly edged 

 with white in their terminal third. Head, neck .and back, black ; shoulders, lower part of 

 back, rump and under parts orange-yellow; under wing coverts yellow. Bill bluish-black, 

 pale blue at base of under mandible ; legs dark brown. Bill moderate, curved, rather thick 

 at base ; wing rather long, third and fourth quills longest ; tail rather long, somewhat 

 graduated. Adult. Total length about 714 inches; wing 3%, tail 3}4 inches. 



Mab. — Guatemala; "Vera Paz" (Mus. Massena). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



The type of this species, described by me as above, remains the only speci- 

 men that I have seen, though it has been obtained at various localities in 

 Guatemala by late European naturalists and travellers. This species is of the 

 same sub-group as the two immediately preceding (P. Wagleri and P. prosthe- 

 melas), but is easily distinguished by the white spots on the wing coverts, 

 which are peculiar, and a strong character. The type of this species in the 

 Acad. Mus., from the Massena collection, is labelled " Cohan, Vera Paz," which 

 latter was printed erroneously " Vera Cruz " in my original description. 



3. Melanopsar. 



7. Pexdclincs chrysocephalcs (Linnffius). 



Oriolus chrysocephalus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 164 (1766). 

 Gracula chrysoptera, Merrem Beytr. Gesch. Voeg. (1784). 

 Briss. Orn. vi. Supp. pi. 2. Merr. Beytr. pi. 3. Vieill. Gal. i. pi. 86. Spix. 

 Av. Bras. i. pi. 67. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 57 



Adult cf . Black ; head above, rump, shoulders and tibite bright yellow. Longer upper 

 coverts of the tail black; under tail coverts frequently with a few yellow feathers. Yellow 

 of the head above and tibise frequently mixed with black. Bill curved, slender, brownish- 

 black ; wing rather long, third and fourth quills longest; tail long, graduated; legs rather 

 short, brownish-black. Total length about 9 inches ; wing 4 to 414, tail il4 inches. 



Younger. Dull dark brown ; head, above, shoulders, rump and tibiaj dull yellow. 



Variety? Same species? Like the preceding, but with tne yellow on the head more re- 

 stricted, and rump black, uniform with other upper parts of body. 



.Haft.— Northern South America; Guiana; Brazil. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. 

 Smiths. Washington. 



An easily recognized and well known species, apparently abundant in the 



northern countries of South America. One specimen in the Acad. Mus , from 



the ilassena collection, difters from all others now under examination in having 



the lower part of tlie back and rump black, uniform with other upper parts of 



the body, but is not in fully adult plumage. Specimens in Acad. Mus. are from 



" Cayenne ;" others in the Smiths. Mus. are from Demerara, and one in the 



collection of Mr. Lawrence is probably from Ecuador. Wagler, in Syst. Av., 



seems to describe the black-backed variety above mentioned, exclusively, but 



Brisson describes the more usual plumage, as above given. 



8. Pendulinds cayaxensis (Linnffius). 



Oriolus cayanensis, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 163 (1766). 

 " Icterus flaviscapularis, Lesson." 



Agelaius chrysopterus, Vieill. Nouv. Diet., xxxiv. p. 539 (1819). 

 Briss. Orn. iL pi. 9, fig. 2. Buff. PI. Enl. 535, fig. 2? Swains. Zool. 111. i. 

 pi. 22. 



Bill long, slender, curved ; tail long, wide, graduated ; wing rather long, second and third 

 quills longest; legs moderate or rather short; tibiae black. Entire plumage deep black, 

 except the shoulders, which are yellow. Under wing coverts usually mi.xed yellow and 

 black. Bill brownish black, legs brown. Adult. Total length about 9 inches, wing 4, tail 

 4 to 4Vi inches. 



Ilab. — Northern South America, Cayenne, Northern Brazil ? Spec, in Mus. Acad., Phila- 

 delphia. 



This is another of the species of which I can give no precise nor well deter- 

 mined locality froiu specimens before me. It is not a common species in Ame- 

 rican collections, and seems to have been confounded with several others which 

 it resembles only in its black plumage, but to which, in fact (except P. tibialis), 

 it is not veiy nearly related. In determining this species, and distinguishing 

 it from others which resemble it, the long and curved bill, and long, graduated 

 tail are available characters. Specimens in the Acad. Mus. are from the Mas- 

 sena collection. Much resembling the next species, P. tibialis, but seems to 

 differ in being rather larger, the bill longer and more curved, and the tibix 

 black (which are yellow in P. tibialis). 



9. Pendulinus tibialis (Swainson). 



Icterus tibialis. Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 302 (1838). 



"Xanthornus femoralis." Label on Spec, from Imp. Mus. Rio de Janeiro. 

 Xanthornus flavaxilla, Hahn, Voeg. pt. vi. p. 1 (1820)? 

 Hahn Voeg. pt. vi. pi. 2 ? 



Rather smaller than the preceding, bill shorter, tibi.-e yellmo. Bill slightly cinwcd or 

 nearly straight, slender; wing rather long, third quill longest; tail long, wide, graduated; 

 legs rather short. Entire plumage black, except the shoulders and tibire, which are yel- 

 low; under wing coverts and a.xillaries yellow (perhaps not so generally nii.xed with black 

 as in the preceding). Tibise frequently mixed yellow and black. Bill and legs brownish 

 black. Adult (J. Total length about 8^ inche"s, wing .3% to 4, tail 4 inches. Adult 9- 

 Like the male but smaller, total length aBout 8 inches. 



Hab. — Brazil, Bahia, CearA. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Inst., Wash- 

 ington. 



Distinguished from P. cayanensis by its yellow tibiaj, in addition to which 

 this bird seems to be rather smaller and has the bill shorter and less curved. 

 It is not entirely easy, however, to fully determine the specific value of this 

 bird, as specimens constantl}' occur in collections which have the tibix mixed 

 yellow and black and, although usually with shorter bills than the adult P. 

 cayanensis, are in other respects about as much that species as the present. Fine 



1867.] 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



specimens in the Smiths. Mus., from Ceara, Northern Brazil, have the tibim 

 clear j-ellow. Numerous specimens in the Smiths. Mus. and Acad. Mus. from 

 various localities in Brazil. This bird is probably that described by Hahn, as 

 above cited. It is commonly brought in Bahia collections. 



10. Pexdulixus chilensis, Reichenbach. 



Xanthornus chilensis, Reich. Denks. Acad. Vienna, 1853, pt. ii., p. 130. 

 Cab. Jour. 1855, p. 55. 



"Zunachst ^anih. cajtnntnsis, doch kleiner, der Schweif viel kleiner, nicht stufenformigi 

 kaum gerund et." 



"Ziemlich haufig habe ich diesen schonen Vogel etwa 12 Stunden weit von Valparaiso 

 in eiuer ebeden uud etwas sumpfigen Gegend getroflFen, an auderen Orten selten und bloss 

 in vereinzelten Exemplaren." • 



Evidently a peculiar species, but which I have not seen, nor indeed any 

 black species of this style from Western South America. 



11. Pendclinus dominicensis (Linnfeus). 



Oriolus dominicensis, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 163 (IVCG). 

 Pendulinus flavigaster, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p. 317 (1816). 

 Pendulinus viridis, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p. 321 (1816)? 

 Briss. Orn. ii. pi. 12, fig. 3. Buff. PI. Enl. 5, fig. 2. 



Like the two preceding (P. cayanensis and tibialis) but smaller, and with the under tail 

 coverts, sides of the abdomen and rump yellow (shoulders and libiie also yellow). All 

 other parts of the plumage black. Middle of the abdomen black, uniform with the other 

 plumage, but vellow on the sides (of the abdomen); under wing coverts and axillaries yel- 

 low. Bill and' feet bluish black. Adult cT. Total length about 8 to 8% inches, wing 3J^ to 

 3%, tail 3% inches. 



Young? Throat black, shoulders and rump greenish yellow; all other parts of the plu- 

 mage dark olive green, strongly tinged with yellow on the under parts. Tibise greenish 

 yellow. Resembles the young of JP. hypomelns, of Cuba. 



J?a6.— St. Domingo or Hayti. Spec, in 3Ius. Acad., Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Inst., 

 Washington. 



Exclusively inhabiting the Island of St. Domingo. Resembles not only the 

 two preceding, P. cayanensis and P. tibialis, but also the two next succeeding, 

 P. portoricensis and P. hypomelas, from all of which it is readily distinguished 

 by its under tail coverts and sides of the abdomen he'iug yellow, in which respect 

 and otherwise generally it is well represented by Buffon in PI. Enl., as cited 

 above. Specimens in the Smiths. Mus. and Acad. Mus. are certainly from the 

 Island of St. Domingo. Those in the Smiths. Mus. are from the valuable col- 

 lection of Mr. A. C. Younglove, made in the vicinity of Port au Prince. 



12. Pendulinus portoricensis (Bryant). 



Icterus dominicensis, var. portoricensis, Bryant, Proc. Nat. Hist. Soc. Bos- 

 ton, 1866, p. 254. 

 Turdus ater, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 830, (1788) ? 

 Turdus jugularis. Lath. Ind. Orn. i. p. 351 (1790) ? 



Buflf. PL Enl. 559 ? 



Resembling P. dominicensis, but with the yellow smaller in space on the rump, and re- 

 stricted to the tibice and under tail coverts on the under parts (no yellow on the sides of 

 the abdomen, as in P. dominicensis) ; also resembles P. hypomdas, of Cuba, Vjut the adult of 

 that species has the under tail coverts black, and the young plumages are quite different. 

 Bill slightly curved, rather straighter and thicker than in P. dominiceiisis ; wing moderate, 

 third quill slightly longest; tail moderate; legs rather short. 



Adult J. Shoulders, rump, under tail coverts and tibiae yellow, all other parts black. 

 Under wing coverts yellow, bill black, legs brownish black, a few of the longer upper tail 

 coverts black, and tiie longer under tail coverts frequently tipped with black. Total length 

 about 83^ inches, wing 3)4 to Z%, tail 3% inches. 



Young. Upper parts of body dull yellowish or reddish olive green, under parts reddish 

 yellow tinged with green on the abdomen, quills and tail yellowish green. Adolescent. 

 Like the young in the plumage of the head and body, but with the tail black, and with the 

 black beg'inning to appear at the base of the bill and on the back. (The young differs from 

 that of P. hypomelas and also from that of P. dominicensis). 



Hab.—FoTto Rico. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Inst., Washington. 



Numerous specimens of this species are in the Smiths, collection, exclusively 

 from Porto Rico. Related to and resembling the preceding P. dominicensis but 

 distinguishable without difficulty by the yellow color on the under parts being 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



restricted to the tibi« and under tail coverts. Tlie young of this species is 

 probably different entirely from that of P. dominicensis, and certainly from that 

 oi P. hypomelas, and resembles the figure in PL Enl. 559 in a greater degree 

 than that of any other species known to me. 



The extensive and valuable collections made in Porto Rico by Mr. Robert 

 Swift and Mr. George Latimer, and presented by them to the Smithsonian 

 Institution, contain all plumages of this species, as above described. 



13. Pendulinus hypomelas, Bonaparte. 



Pendulinus hypomelas, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 433 (1850). 

 "Icterus hypomelas, Du Bus," Bonap. ut sup. 



Icterus dominicensis, et virescens, Vig. Zool. Jour. ii. p. 441 (182'7). 

 Psarocolius melanopsis, Wagl. Isis, 1829, p. 759. 

 De Sagra's Cuba, Ois. pi. 19, bis. (young). 



Like the preceding, but with the under tail coverts black (not yellow, as in the two pre- 

 ceding, P. (inminicensis and P. portoricensis), but frequently the shorter under tail coverts 

 are dull gamboge yellow, quite different from the j'ellow of the tibise. Yellow space on the 

 rump wide, as in P dominicensis. Bill rather shorter and thicker than in either of the pre- 

 ceding, curved; wing moderate, third quill slightly longest; tail rather long, graduated ; 

 legs rather short. 



Adult (f. Shoulders, rump and tibise yellow, shorter under coverts of the tail dull gam- 

 boge yellow, under wing coverts yellow. All other parts of the plumage black. Longer 

 upper coverts of the tail black, alfthe longer under tail coverts and frequently all the un- 

 der coverts of the tail black. Bill bluislT black, lighter bluish at the base of the under 

 mandible ; legs bluish black. Total length about 8 to 8}4 inches, wing Z}4 to 3^, tail 3)4 to 

 35i inches. 



Young. Throat black, body above and below yellowish olive green, shoulders and rump 

 greenish yellow, and in more advanced plumage, tibife yellow. Under wing coverts yellow, 

 wings and tail brownish green. Adolescent. The black of the adult appearing on the back 

 and breast. In young plumage this bird is Icterus virescens and Psarocolius melanopsis, as 

 above. 



J3a6.— Cuba. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and in Mus. Smiths. Inst., Washington. 



This is another of the black species with the rump or lower part of the back 

 yellow, and allied to the two immediately preceding, P. dominicensis and P. 

 portoricensis. It is not difhcult to distinguish from either, by its black under 

 tail coverts. Numerous specimens in the Smiths. Mus. are from the fine col- 

 lection made in Cuba by Mr. Charles Wright, who most carefully obtained 

 adults and young in all plumages. 



14. Pendulinus leucoptebyx (Wagler). 

 Psarocolius leucopteryx, Wagl. Syst. Av. 16 (182'7). 



Icterus personatus, Temm. PI. Coll. ii. liv. 81 (not paged nor dated), 

 " Oriolus mexicanus, Linn." Leach Zool. Misc. i. p. 8. 

 Oriolus nidipendulus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 390 (1?88) ? 



Leach Zool. Misc. i. pi. 2. Edwards' Birds, v. pi. 243. Sloan Jam. pi. 258, 

 fig. 3? 



Middle and greater coverts of the wing white, forming a large space of that color (white) 

 in the first half of the wing; shoulders yellowish green, uniform with the plumage of the 

 upper parts of the body. Bill thick at base, somewhat curved ; wing rather long, third and 

 fourth quills longest; tail moderate or rather short; legs strong. Adult d". Entire upper 

 parts of head and body greenish yellow, lighter on the rump, under parts yellow, tinged 

 with green on the breast and sides. Front, lores and throat black (united and forming a 

 mask), wings and tail black. Middle and greater coverts ot the wing white, shorter quills 

 widely edged with white. Under wing coverts pale yellow. Bill bluish black, pale blue at 

 base of the under mandible ; legs bluish black. Total length 8 to 8}4 inches, wing i^, tail 

 Z14 inches. 



Adult ? . Like the male, but with the upper parts more strongly tinged with green, and 

 the white of the wing not so large; shoulders and scapulars frequently mixed with black. 

 Young. Like the female, but with the tail olive green; coverts of the wings widely tipped 

 with white, all the quills narrowly edged with grayish white. Adolescent. Midille feath- 

 ers of the tail black, others green. Shorter quills black, edged with white, others dull 

 brown. 



£ra6.— Jamaica. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Inst., Waslungton. 



This is a common enough, but quite peculiar species, preserving as it docs 

 in adult plumage the general colors of the young of several others, and espe- 

 cially of the smaller P. spurius of North America. Standing before mc in com- 



1867.] 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



pany with the young of P. dominicensis, P. hypomelas and P. spurius, I am al- 

 most inclined to regard it as illustrating arrested development. 



This bird is exclusively from Jamaica, so far as my information extends, and 

 numerous specimens, no\Y under examination, are in the very fine collection of 

 the birds of that Island, presented to the Smithsonian Institution by William 

 Thomas March, Esq., of Spanishtown, Jamaica. Numerous others in the 

 Smiths. Mus. are in another fine collection from Metcalfe Parish, Jamaica, col- 

 lected and presented by Professor George N. Allen. 



In my opinion this bird is Oriolus nidipendulus, Gmelin, as above, founded 

 on descriptions of t-wo supposed species in Sloane's Jamaica, " The "Watchy 

 Picket or Spanish Nightingale " and "Another sort of the Watchy Picket." 

 (Nat. Hist. Jamaica, il pp. 299, 300). 



4. Icterioides. 



15. Pendulixus auricapillus (Cassin). 



Icterus auricapillus, Cass. Proc. Acad. Philada., 1847, p. 332. 

 Jour. Acad. Philada. quarto, i. pi. 16, fig. 2. 



Back, wings and tail black (no white marks in the wing). Bill moderate or rather short, 

 thick at ba.se, slightly curved; wing rather long, second and third quills longest; tail 

 rather long, graduated; legs moderate. Adult ^. Back, wings and tail clear lustrous 

 black, without any white spots or marks whatever. Front, lores and throat black, united 

 and forming a wide mask. Head, above, rump and entire under parts golden yellow, paler 

 on the rump. Shoulders yellow, under wing coverts yellow, a few of the longer upper tail 

 coverts black. Bill bluish black, legs dark brown. Total length 7 to 71^ inches, wing i]/^ 

 to 3%, tail .3'/^ to 35^ inches. Younger. Entire head and under parts of^body dull orange 

 yellow, black feathers appearing on the throat; quills and tail feathers dark brown, rump 

 greenish yellow. 



Hab. — Northern South America, New Grenada, Venezuela, Trinidad, Mexico? Spec, in 

 Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Inst., Washington. 



About the size of P. chrysocephalus and, like that species, somewhat variable 

 in all its dimensions, a specimen from the Island of Trinidad being the largest 

 and another from Bogota, New Grenada, the smallest. A handsome and easily 

 recognized species, with clear black wings and tail, without a vestige of white 

 markings on either, and differing in that respect from the next succeeding, P. 

 eucuUatus. Shoulders in the present species, yellow; in P. cucuUatus, black. 

 Specimens in the Smiths. Mus. are from Bogota and Santa Martha, New Gre- 

 nada. Two specimens in the Massena collection are labelled as from Mexico, 

 in the handwriting of Jlr. Victor Massena. Others in the Acad. Mus. are from 

 Trinidad and Venezuela. 



16. Pendulinus cucullatus (Swainson). 



Icterus cucullatus, Swains. Philos. Mag., 1827, p. 436. 

 Cassin, B. of Cal. and Texas, pi. 8. 



Middle coverts of the wing white, forming a wide diagonal band across the wing, near 

 the shoulder. Bill rather long, curved, rather slender; wing moderate, third and fourth 

 quills longest; tail rather long, graduated; legs moderate. Adult rf. Back, tvings and tail 

 black, middle coverts of the wing white, shorter quills widely edged with white, primaries 

 narrowly edged with grayish white. Front, lores and throat black, united and forming a 

 wide mask. Head above, rump and entire under parts rich golden or reddish yellow; 

 under wing coverts yellow. Bill bluish black, legs brownish. Total length about 7>i inches ; 

 wing, 3}^; tail, 3^^ to 4 inches. Younger (?. Black plumage of the back edged with yel- 

 lowish green, tail narrowly tipped with white, yellow of the head tinged with dull green, 

 and specimens occur in which the entire yelloV parts of the plumage are dull greenish 

 yellow, much paler, and of a different shade of yellow from that of the fully-matured bird. 



Female. Upper parts dull ashy olive green, tinged with yellow on the he"ad, under parts 

 pale greenish yellow, clearer yellow on the in,icldle of the abdomen and under tail coverts, 

 ashy on the sides, wings ashy brown, co^ts tipped with white, tail yellowish green. 

 Total length about 7 inches. -' 



Hab. — Mexico; Texas; Lower California. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philadelphia, and Mus. 

 Smiths. Inst., Washington. 



About the size of the preceding P. auricapilhis, and generally resembling it, 

 but easily distinguished by its conspicuous white marks on the wings, and the 

 shoulders being black. Numerous specimens in the Smiths. Mus., from Cor- 

 dova and Mirador, and various localities in the States of Tamaulipas and Coa- 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



huila, Mexico, and from Texas. Specimens in the Acad. Mus. are from Mexico, 

 and from Brownsville and " Ringgold Barracks," Texas. Numerous specimens 

 in tlie Smiths. Mus., also, are from Capt. John Xantus' collection in Lower 

 California, and Colima, "Western Mexico. 



5. rendulinus. 



17. Pexdulinus spurius (LinnjEus). 



Oriohis spurius, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 162 (1766). 

 Oriolus spurius et varius, Gm. Sj'st. Nat. i. pp. 389, 390 (1788). 

 Oriolus castaneus, Lath. lud. Orn. i. p. 181 (1790). 

 Yphantes solitaria, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. iii. p. 215 (1816). 

 Pendulinus nigricoUis, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p. 318 (1816). 

 Oriolus mutatus, Wils. Am. Orn. i. p. 64 (1808). 

 Wils. Am. Orn. i. pi. 4. Aud. B. of Am., pi. 42, oct , ed. iv. pi. 219. 

 Catesby Car., pi. 49. Hahn Voeg., pt. v. pi. 5. Buff. Pi. Enl. 607, fig. 1. 



Small; bill slightly curved; wing moderate; third quill usually longest; tail rather long, 

 rounded or slightly graduated. Adult male. Head and upper part ot back, wings and tall 

 black. All other "parts dark chestnut. Greater wing coverts tipped with white, quills 

 edged with grajnsh white; shoulders chestnut; bill bluish black, lighter at base of under 

 mandiljle ; legs dark brown. Female. Upper parts of head and body uniform olive green, 

 under parts pale greenish yellow, smaller and greater wing coverts tipped with white, 

 quills dark brown edged with grayish white, tail yellowish green. Young male. Like the 

 female, but with the throat black, and (in adolescence) the chestnut of the adult beginning 

 to appear on the breast and sides of the neck. Total length about 6J/^ to 7 inches ; wing 

 3^, tail 3 inches. 



Hab. — Eastern North America; Mexico; Central America; New Grenada. Spec, in Mus. 

 Acad., Philada., and Mus. Smiths., Washington. 



An abundant species throughout temperate North America, east of the Rocky 

 Mountains, and extending its winter migration into Mexico and Central 

 America. One specimen in the collection of my friend Mr. Lawrence, of New 

 York, is from Savanilla, New Grenada. Numerous specimens in the Smiths. 

 Mus., from widely distant localities, but showing no specific variation, whether 

 from Nebraska or Guatemala. Numerous specimens also in Mus. Acad., from 

 an equally extensive range of localities. 



On this little species the genus Pendulinus is founded by Vieillot, but, in my 

 opinion, erroneously, the type or most perfect form being very probably F. 

 bomna, or perhaps F. Wag'leri. The present species is but an humble member 

 of this highly respectable group, and one which shows its characteristics but 

 inditferently — indeed, I am not without a suspicion that it more properly 

 belongs to the group Hyphantes as an aberrant form. 



18. Pendulinus affinis (Lawrence). 



Xanthornus afiinis, Lawr. Ann. Lye, New York, 1851, p. 113. 



Like the preceding (P. spurius) in form and colors, but smaller, and restricted to South- 

 ern North America. Adult male. Chestnut, with the head, back, wings and tail black. 

 Female. Oli^'e green above, pale greenish yellow on the under parts. Total length about 

 C}^ inches ; wing 3, tail 2% inches. 



/fa6.— Texas ; Mexico. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus. Smiths., \\ ashington. 



Appears to be uniformly smaller than F. spurius, and not yet found north of 

 Texas. It is, however, only to be distinguished from that species by this char- 

 acter the shorter wing being the most obvious character in prepared skins. 

 Specimens from Texas and Mexico in Smiths. Mus., and Acad. Mus., and in the 

 collection of Mr. Lawrence, New York. This little bird seems to be the resi- 

 dent species of Texas, and perhaps Mexico ; but its near relative, F, spurius, is 

 also found in those countries abundantly in the winter, or during the season of 

 migration. 



Ill Genus HYPHANTES, Vieillot. 

 (Genus Yphautes, Vieill. Analyse, p. 33 (1816). 



This is a group of smaller or medium-sized species, characterized by straight, 

 sharp and rather strong bills, well-developed and somewhat pointed wings, 



1867.] 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and rather short tails. All are of entire sj^mmetry and compactness of struc- 

 ture, and the group represents, in my opinion, the perfection of the family 

 Icteridse, and is therefore, I think, to be properly regarded as the typical genus. 

 My business, in the present series of memoirs, is, however, mainly with spe- 

 cies, and I have not ventured upon such arrangement. 



1. Hyphantes. 



1. Hyphantes Baltimore (Linnjeus). 



Oriolus Baltimore, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 162 (IVSG). 

 Oriolus tricolor, Miill. Syst. Nat. Supp., p. 87 (177(3). 



Catesby Carolina, i. pi. 48. Bufif. PI. Enl. 506. Vieill. Gal. i. pi. 87. Wils. 

 Am. Orn. i. pi. 1, vi. pi. 53. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 12, oct. ed. iv. pi. 217. 



Bill straight, pointed ; wing with the first four primaries longest and nearly equal ; tail 

 moderate. Adult. Fine reddish orange; head, back, wings and middle tail feathers 

 black. Shoulders orange, greater coverts tipped with white, quills edged with whit«, tail 

 at base orange, middle feathers black in their terminal two-thirds, others with a medial 

 .spaceblaek,andlargely tipped with orange. Bill bluish, legs bluish brown. Female. Like 

 the male, but with the black parts tinged with brown, and the orange parts paler, and 

 sometimes tinged with green; younger, and frequently mated: the female has the head 

 above and back yellowish or grayish olive, quills brown, tail olive green. Young. Like 

 the young female, but with the quills blacker. Adolescent. Black appearing on the head 

 and throat, tail feathers partly black. Total length 1]^ to 8 inches ; wing 3%, tail 3 to 3J4 

 inches. 



Hah. — Eastern North America; Mexico; Central America. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Fhilada. 

 and Mus. Smiths., Washington. 



Specimens of this well-known species in the Smiths. Mus. are from numerous 

 localities throughout the United States, east of the Rocky Mountains, from 

 Eastern Mexico, Guatemala and Costa Rica ; many of them, in collections from 

 Mexico and Central America in very fine adult plumage. One of the most 

 beautiful and familiarly-known birds of the United States. This beautiful 

 little species varies in the shade and depth of its orange colors in both males 

 and females. Specimens in the Acad. Mus., from Jalapa, Mexico, are amongst 

 the finest in plumage that I have seen. 



2. Hyphantes Bullockii (Swainson). 



Xanthornus Bullockii, Swains. Philos. Mag., 1827, p. 436. 

 Psarocolius auricollis, DeWeid, Reise Nord. Am. i. pi. 367 (1839). 

 Aud. B. of Am. pi. 388, oct. ed. iv. pi. 218. 



Size of the preceding, front and wide superciliary stripe orange. Bill straight, pointed, 

 wing rather long, second and third quills longest, tail moderate, rounded. Adult. Stripe 

 through the eye, head above, back and throat, black. Wings brownish black, greater 

 coverts and quills widely edged with white, under wing coverts orange j-ellow. Front 

 and superciliary stripe, sides of neck and entire under parts of body fine orange yellow, 

 paler on the abdomen. Lower part of back and rump orange yellow, frequently tinged 

 with greenish. Tail, with the middle feathers brownish black in their terminal two- 

 thirds, yellow at base ; outer feathers orange yellow, tipped with brownish black. Young. 

 Upper parts yellowish olive green, darker and frequently mottled with brownish black on 

 the back. Total length about 7 to 1% inches; wing 4, tail 314 inches. 



fla(,._Western North America ; Mexico. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., aud Mus. Smiths., 

 Washington. 



Apparently a frequent species of all the temperate countries of North 

 America on the Pacific Ocean, and inhabiting also a very extensive central 

 region, including the Rocky Mountains. Well represented in the plate of 

 Audubon's folio edition, but indifferently in the octavo. Not intimately 

 resembling any other species. 



2. Hyphantes Abeillei (Lesson). 



Xanthornus Abeillei, Less. Rev. Zool., 1839, p. 101. 



Oriolus Costototl, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 385 (1788)? 

 About the size of the preceding two species, and strictly of the same generic group. 

 Entire upper parts of head and body black. Under parts with the throat and sides black. 

 Narrow line over the eye, sides of the neck and middle of the under parts of the body 

 orange yellow. Wings black, greater coverts white, quills edged with white. Tail with 

 the middle feathers brownish black, other tail feathers yellow, tipped with brownish 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 63 



black. Plumage of the rump and upper tail coverts cinerous and greenish yellow at base, 

 and widely tipped with hlixok. Under wing coverts yellow. Bill bluish brown, light blue 

 at base of under mandilile, legs bluish brown. Bill straight, pointed, wing rather long, 

 third quill longest, tail moderate, rounded. Total length about T\4 inches; wing 4, tail 3^ 

 inches. 

 i2a6.— Mexico. Spec, in Smith.?. Mus., Washington. 



Of this curious and little-known bird, I have seen only a single specimen, 

 which was obtained from Messrs. Verreaux, of Paris, and is now in the Smiths. 

 Mus. It is at once recognizable by the sides being black. This bird may be 

 0. costototl, Gmelin, as cited above, founded on a description of Hernandez, but 

 not to be so determined satisfactorily. 



2. Melanojjhantes. 



5. Hyphantes xanthomus (Sclater). 



Icterus xanthomus, Sclat. Cat. Am. B. p. 131 (1862). 



Bill straight, pointed, thick at base; wing with the second and third quills longest, tail 

 moderate, rounded, legs rather strong. Adult. Shoulders yellow; all other parts of the 

 plumage glossy black. Under wing coverts black, uniform with the other black plumage. 

 Yellow space on the shoulder frequently edged with yellowish white ; very pale and nearly 

 pure white in some specimens. Bill black, paler at base of under mandible ; legs brown- 

 ish black. Sexes alike ? Total length about 7}^ to 8 inches ; wing 4 to 4'4, tail 3J^ inches. 



Hah. — Porto Rico; St. Thomas? West Indies. Spec, in Mus. Acad,, Philada., and Mus. 

 Smiths., Washington. 



This is one of the anomalous forms, not to be arranged without difficulty, 

 and, in structure, a curious species. My present opinion is that it is analogue 

 of Agelaius in the genus Hyphantes, but am not without a suspicion that it 

 really belongs in the subfamily with Agelaius and Molothrus. Easily recog- 

 nized by its short compact structure, straight and almost conic bill, black 

 plumage and yellow shoulders. (The under wing coverts being clear black, 

 not yellow or partly so, as in Pendulinus cayanensis and P. tibialis, which this 

 bird resembles in colors only.) Specimens in Acad. Mus., from the Massena 

 collection, without label, numerous specimens in the Smiths. Mus., exclusively 

 from Porto Rico, in the fine collections of Mr. George Latimer. 



3. Aporopkantes. 

 6. Hyphantes pyrrhopterus (Vieillot). 



Agelaius pyrrhopterus, Vieill. Nouv. Diet, xxxiv. p. 543 (1819), 

 Pendulinus periporphyrus, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 432 (1850). 



Bill straight, sharp, rather slender; wing moderate; tail rather long, graduated ; feet 

 strong. Adult. Shoulders dark chestnut: all other parts of plumage lu.strous black. Bill 

 bluish black, feet brownish black. Total length about 8 inches ; wing 3*^ to 3V{, tail 4 in. 



Hab. — Northern South America; Bolivia (Massena Coll.) Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada. 



Another singular and anomalous form in this group, and not to be assigned 

 to any genus without difficulty. The bill is straight, pointed and conic, 

 though rather weak, the wings may almost be said to be rounded, the first 

 quill shorter, the next four nearly equal, and the tail long and partially gradu- 

 ated. At present my impression is that this bird belongs here, though it may 

 be perhaps more properly regarded as Pendulinus or possibly Agelaius. 



The only specimens that I have seen of this curious species are in the Acad. 

 Mus., from the Massena collection, one of which is from D'Orbigny's collection, 

 and is labelled " Chicquitos." Easily distinguished by its chestnut shoulders 

 and black plumage, which combination is peculiar. 



IV. Genus CASSICUS, Brisson. 



Cassicus, used generically, Briss. Orn. ii. p. 98 (1760). 



Cassicus, Daud. Traite D'Orn. ii. p. 322 (1800). 



Cassicus, Illig. Prod., p. 214 (1811). Cuv. Reg. An, i. p. 394 (1817). 



1 . Cassicus. 

 1. Cassicus h^morrhoos (Linna;us). 



Oriolus haemorrhous, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 161 (1766). 



1867.] 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Buff. PI. Enl., 482. Swains. B. of Braz., pi. 1. Shaw Nat. Misc. x. pi 365. 

 Prevost Ois. Exot., pi. Yl. Dubois Orn. Gal., pi. 43. D'Orb. Cuv.Orn.pl. 

 ST. Briss. Orn ii. pi. 8. 



Bill large, slightly curved, wing long, third quill longest, tail moderate or rather short, 

 feet strong. Adult. Back and rump bright scarlet; all other parts of the plumage lustrous 

 black; bill bluish or greenish yellow; feet brownish black. Sexes alike in colors. 

 Younger. Back and rump yellowish scarlet ; other parts of plumage dull brownish black ; 

 bill dull greenish yellow, darker at base. Total length, male, about 12 inches; wing 7J<$, 

 tail 4 to 4J,^ inches; female smaller. 



i/oft.— South America; Central and Eastern? Spec, m Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus. 

 Smiths., \Vashington. 



Apparently one of the most abundant birds of South America. In all col- 

 lections in this country, usually from Bahia, Rio de Janeiro, St. Katherine, 

 and other points in Eastern Brazil. Perhaps the same also from Guiana and 

 Trinidad. In this species the bill is not so large as in the nest succeeding, 

 (C. affinis,) but in all other characters the two birds are very similar, and prob- 

 ably ought to be regarded as identical. 



2, Cassicus affinis, Swainson. 



Cassicus afiinis, Swains. B. of Braz. 



" Cassicus crassirostris, Aliq." Bonap. Compt. Rend., 1853, p. 833. 

 Swains. B. of Braz., pi. 2. 



To be distinguished from the preceding by its thicker bill, which is, so far 

 as I can see, the principal character, and but a doubtful species. Not having 

 a sufficient number of specimens which are clearly this bird, to form a satis- 

 factor}- series or to show gradations, I give it provisionally as distinct, and 

 very nearly as defined by the Prince Bonaparte in Compt. Rend, xxxvii. p. 

 833. 



Like the preceding, and about the same size, but with the bill much larger, especially at 

 base, straighter and wider; wing long; tail rather short. Back and rump bright scarlet; 

 all other parts of the plumage lustrous black; bill bluish yellow; feet brownish black. 

 Total length about 12'jk inches; female smaller. 

 Hab. — Northern Soutn America: "Cayenne." Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada. 



The Prince Bonaparte's diagnosis of this species, as above cited is : — 

 " Grande ; d'un noir luisant ; la couleur rouge 6tendue ; le bee droit, mais 

 tres-dilate, enorme a la base." Several specimens in the Massena collection 

 present all these characters, and especially the last, the bill being, indeed, 

 quite entitled to be considered enormous at base. The scarlet of the back is of 

 greater extent than in either of the two next succeeding, and perhaps also of 

 the preceding, (C hxmorrhous,) as stated by the Prince Bonaparte, as above 

 cited ; but I cannot see that this bird is of a more lustrous black than the pre- 

 ceding, as also stated by him in descriptions of the two supposed species — 

 " noir mat " and " noir luisant." 



Specimens in the Acad. Mus. from " Cayenne." 



3. Cassicds uiioPYGiALis, Lafresuaye. 



Cassicus uropygialis, Lafre.s. Rev. Zool., 1843, p. 290. 

 Cassicus curvirostris, Lafres. Rev. Zool., 1847, p. 218. 

 Hahn Voeg., pt. vi. pi. 6? 



Like the two preceding, (C. hxmorrhous and C. affinis,)hvit smaller, and with the bill 

 curved, and the scarlet of the back and rump more restricted. In all specimens now 

 before me, the scarlet on the upper parts is restricted to the rump, and much smaller in 

 extent than in either of the preceding, and frequently assuming a yellowish or copper 

 lustre, (which is the case also m the succeeding species, C. micrm-hynchu»). Entire other 

 plumage lustrous black, bill greeni.sh yellow, feet dark brown. Bill thick at base, both 

 mandibles curved, wing long, tail moderate or rather short. Total length about 10 to 10}^ 

 inches ; wing 6}^, tail b% to oj^ inches. Female smaller. 



Hib. — Northern South America: Bogota; Rio Atrato. Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Inst., 

 Washington, and in Coll. Mr. Lawrence, New York. 



Apparently a species of fair respectability. The specimens before me could 

 readily be distinguished from either of the preceding, but perhaps not so easily 

 from the next succeeding, (C. microrhi/nchus,) which it more strongly resembles. 

 The more restricted scarlet of the body above is a reliable character, and the 

 bill always presents a degree of curvature not seen in the preceding. 



[Ap.il, 




NATTTRAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Very fine adult specimens of this curious species are in an extensive and 

 valuable collection from Bogota, recently presented to the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion by the Hon. A. A. Burton, late Minister of the United States to New- 

 Grenada. It is also in Capt. Michler's collection from the Rio Atrato, and I 

 have seen it in other collections. 



4. Cassicus microrhynchus (Sclater et Salvin). 



Cassiculus microrhvnchus, Sclat. et Salv. Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1864. 

 p. 353. 



About the size of C. tiropygic^s, and much resembling it, but With the bill smaller and 

 straighter. Scarlet of the upper p?.rts nearly restricted to the rump, and frequently- 

 tinged with yellow, as in that species, but much smaller in extent than in C. humorrhous 

 and C. affinis. Plumage lustrous black, (except the rump,) bill greenish yellow, legs 

 brownish black. Bill small; in some specimens nearly straight, but generally slightly 

 curved; (usually not proportionately larger than in the thrushes, and resembling that of 

 the subgroup Cassiculus;) wing long, tail rather short, feet strong. Total length about 9 

 inches. 



/?a6.— New Grenada; Panama; Central America? Spec in Mus, Smiths. Inst,, Washing- 

 ton, and in Coll. Mr, G. N. Lawrence, N. Y, 



Mainly distinguishable from the preceding, (C. uropygialis,) by its small bill, 

 generally straighter, but frequently somewlaat curved, and, in fact, the ap- 

 proximation to that species is cjuite general, and yet to be more diligently 

 inquired into. The scarlet of the rump is nearly of the same extent as in that 

 species, and restricted, but in all the specimens under examination the wings 

 seem shorter, and have the third quill longest, and perhaps all the quills nar- 

 rower than in C. uropygialis. 



This is the last of the red-backed species. We will now try what can be 

 done with the yellow backs, as follows :^ 



5. Cassicus persicds (Linnaeus). 



Oriolus persicus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 161 (1766). 

 Oriolus cacicus, Shaw, Gen. Zool. vii. p. 413 (1809'). 

 Cassicus icteronotus, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p. 315 (1817), 

 Edwards Birds, pi. 319. Briss. Orn. iL pi. 9. Buif. PI. Enl., 184. Swains. 

 B. of Braz., pi. 3. Prevost Ois Exot., pi. 71. 



Adult Lower part of back, and upper and under tail coverts yellow. Tail, with its basal 

 hajf to two-thirds, yellow. Large spot on the greater wing coverts yellow. All other parts 

 lustrous black; bill yellow, feet dark brown, bill thick, slightly curved, wing long, third 

 and fourth quills usually longest, tail rather short, feet strong. In this species the outer 

 tail feathers are generally yellow in the basal two-thirds of their length, which color 

 becomes shorter in each succeeding feather, and in the middle feathers are seldom more 

 than one-half of their length; (in C. vittllinus these proportionate lengths of the yellow 

 color of the tail are reversed). Specimens occur in which the outer tail feathers are yel- 

 low in three-fourths of their length. Younger. Yellow of the plumage with a greenish 

 tinge; other parts brownish black, tinged with greenish j'ellow on the abdomen. Bill 

 brownish or bluish at the base. Total length, cf, H to 11^1 inches; wing 6, tail 4 to 4}^ 

 inches. ?. Total length about 8 to 9 inches : wing 5, tail Z% to 4 inches, 



i?iar6.^Northern South America ; Trinidad. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus. 

 Smiths., Washington. 



An abundant and long-known species, to be found in all collections, but not 

 always presenting uniform characters, specimens differing in size and shape of 

 the bill, extent of j-ellow on the back and tail, and I am not sure tliat various 

 species might not be made by a sufficiently enterprising and speculative per- 

 son. The bill in this species seems to be always smaller than in the next suc- 

 ceeding, (C. vitellinus,) and it is further clearly distinguished from that species 

 by the yellow of the tail, as above described. 



Numerous specimens in the Mus. Smiths., from Trinidad, Guiana, "Amazon " 

 and Eastern Peru, ("Head waters of the Huallaga River,") and in the Mus. 

 Acad., from Trinidad, Surinam, " Brazil " and other localities. Specimens 

 from Trinidad seem to be the smallest, and jierhaps not quite the same, specific- 

 ally. Another style in the Mus. Acad., without label, has the bill short, and 

 the yellow of the back extending upwards, and still another, also, without 

 label, has the bill unusually straight and pointed. 



1867.] 5 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



6. Cassicus titellixus, Lawrence. 



Cassicus vitellinus, Lawr. Proc. Acad. Philada. 1864, p. 107. 



Like the preceding (C. persicus), but with the bill thicker and more curved, the yellow of 

 the tail much more restricted and reversed, being shortest on the outer feathers. Adult. 

 Entire plumage lustrous black, except the back and upper and under tail coverts and a 

 large space on the greater wing coverts, which are rich yellow, inclining to orange (darker 

 and of a richer shade than in the preceding). Bill yellow, generally tinged with greenish, 

 especially the under mandible; feet dark brown. "Eve opal color, bill greenish yellow, 

 legs black." (Mr. F. Hicks' label, Panama), d- Total length 11>^ to 12 inches, wing (i}4 

 to 7, tail 4:^4 to i% inches. ? . Total length about 9}4 inches, wing 4 to 4% tail 3% to 4 



Sab.— 'Sorthern South America, New Grenada, abundant at Panama, Turbo, Atrato River, 

 Central America? Spec, in Mus. Smiths., Washington; Mus. Acad., Philada., and coll. Mr. 

 Geo. N. Lawrence, ]S'ew York. 



Clearly a distinct, and in the numerous specimens now under examination, 

 an easily recognized species. It seems to be uniformly rather larger and with 

 the biirthicker than C. persicus. The fine rich and deep yellow of the back in 

 the adult of this species, I have never seen in its relative, and is correctly 

 pointed out by ilr. Lawrence as a specific character, as above. 



Numerous specimens in the Smiths. Mus., from Panama, and in Col. Mich- 

 ler's collection from the Atrato River. Specimens in the Acad. Mus. labelled 

 doubtfully as from " Mexique." 



7. Cassicus melanurcs, nobis. 



Prevost Ois. Exot. pi. 71 ? Hubner, Samml. Voeg. pi. 99 ? 



In the Massena collection, now a part of the ornithological collection of the 

 Philadelphia Academy, there is a single specimen of a species resembling and 

 allied to C. persicus, but with the tail and under tail coverts entirely black. 

 This specimen is labelled as a female and from Guyaquil, in the handwriting of 

 M. Victor Massena, Prince D'Essling, and is the only one that I have ever seen 

 of the species. 



Adult ? . Smaller than either of the preceding, though strictly of the same subgroup, 

 and with the tail entirely black, and the imder tail coverts black. A wide transverse band, 

 immediately above the under tail coverts, yellow. Rump and a large spot on the wing, at 

 its insertion with the body, yellow. The longer tail coverts black. All other parts, includ- 

 ing the head, neck and back, and entire under parts of the body, wings and tail, black. 

 Bill light colored, feet dark. Bill smaller than in C. persicus, pointed; wing moderate or 

 rather'long, third quill longest; tail moderate, legs rather short. 



Total length 8% inches, wing 414, tail 3^ inches. (Female). 



JZa6.— Guayaquil (Massena Coll.) Spec, m Mus. .-Vcad., Philada. 



2. Cassiculus. 

 Genus Cassiculus, Swains. Faun. Bor. Am. ii. p. 276 (1831). 



8. CASSicrs MELAxiCTERUs (Bonapartc). 



Icterus raelanicterus, Bonap. Jour. Acad. Philada. iv. p. 389 (1825). 



Icterus diadematus, Temm. PI. Col. 



Cassiculus coronatus, Swains. Philos. Mag. 1827, p. 436. 

 Temm. PL Col. 482. Jard. & Selb. 111. Orn. ii. pi. 45. 



Crested, tail entirely yellow, except the two middle feathers and the outer web of the 

 outer feather, which are black. Large, bill straight, tapering, pointed ; wing long, third 

 and fourth quills longest; tail rather long: head with a crest of long and slender feathers. 

 Adult (f. Back and upper and under tail coverts and tail (except two middle feathers) 

 yellow, middle and greater wing coverts yellow. All other parts of the plumage lustrous 

 black, bill bluish or'greenish yellow, legs dark brown. Outer web of outer tail feather usu- 

 ally dark brown, and the yellow feathers of the tail are frequently spotted with brown at 

 their tips. Total length about 12 to 13 inches, \ring to e}4, taO 5]4 to 6 inches. Female 

 smaller, and with the dark pans of the plumage usually tinged with brown. Total length 

 about 9J4 inches. Young. No crest, dark part's of plumage brownish Vjlaek, yellow parts 

 tinged with green, all the yellow tail feathers edged on both webs with dark brown. .\n 

 irregular large spot on each side at the base of the upper mandible dull yellow, throat with 

 numerous whitish spots. 



iTa'>.— Mexico. Abundant at Mazatlan, .Aeapulco. Spec, in Mus. .4.cad., Philada., and 

 Mus. Smiths., Washington. 



The only species of this group having a well defined crest, and easily recog- 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67' 



nized. Abundance of specimens in the fine collections of Col. Grayson and 

 Capt. Xantus, from Mazatlan. Specimens in Mus. Acad, labelled Acapulco. 



9. Cassicus leucorhamphcs (Bonaparte). 



Xanthornus leucoramphus. Bonap. Alt. Sc. Ital. 1843, p. 404. 

 Cassiculus leucoramphus, Ronap. Consp. Av. i. p. 428 (1850). 

 Cassicus chrjsonotus, D'Orb. et Lafres. Mag. Zool. 1838, p. 3? 



Bill straight, pointed ; tail long; wing long, third and fourth quills longest ; legs strong. 

 Adult. Ba<;-k and spot on the wing coverts bright yellow, all other parts lustrous black. 

 ■ Tail uniform black, upper tail coverts black at their ends, yellow at their bases. Bill blu- 

 ish at base, with its point or terminal half, ivory white; feet brownish black (no yellow on 

 the abdomen nor under tail coverts, those parts being black, uniform with other parts of 

 the plumage). Younger or female? Entire black part.s of plumage tinged with brown, and 

 yellow parts with greenish; bill dark brown at base, dull white at tip. 



Total length, male 11 to 12 inches, wing 6, tail 5^ inches. Female ? about Q}4, wing 3% to 

 4, tail 45< inches. 



i7afc.— Northern South America, New Grenada, Ecuador. Spec in Mus. Acad., Philada., 

 and Mus. Smiths., Washington. 



This is a large species, -with a sharp, rather small bill and long tail, easily 

 distinguished from any other bird of this group. It is frequent in collections 

 from Bogota. This species has the tail and entire under i>arts of the body clear 

 uniform black, without yellow in either. There can be little doubt that C. chry- 

 sonolus, D'Orb. et Lafres., is the young of this bird, but that the student may 

 judge for himself I give the original description of that supposed species, next 

 succeeding. 



Of this fine species numerous specimens are in the Mus. Acad., labelled " Bo- 

 gota," and in the Mus. Smiths., from Ecuador and New Grenada. If the same 

 as C. chrysonotus, which I think quite proljable, that name has jirecedence for 

 <the species. 



10. Cassicus chrysoxotus, Lafresnaye. 



Cassicus chrysonotus, Lafres. Guer. Mag. 1838, p. 3. 

 D'Orb. Yoy. Am. Ois. pi. 52. 



"Affinis hfec species Cassico icferonoto; sed differt rostro reetiore, eauda longiore et eolo- 

 ribus. Rostrum in exuvia flavo-albidum, in viva basi obscure cseruleo nebulatum, apice 

 depressiusculurn ; casside frontali angusta tereti quamvis posterius rotundata. Supra et 

 subtus totus major dorso postico et uropj'gio tantum flavo-aurantius, teetricibus caudse 

 superis ac inferis nigri.s; alae his Cassici ictfrnnoti longitudine sequalis, sed cauda multo 

 longiore maris nigredine supra nitente, foemince obscura; hujus uonnullse alarum teetrices 

 medise punctis aut striis minimis aurantius terminatur. An majorum macularum in aliis 

 .speciminibus indicium?" 



"Longit. maris, 31 cent., fmminie 27 cent." 



"Caudis m«r2s i-i}^ cent. Jclerotiotill}4 cent." 



'•Habit, in Bolivia" Yungas." (Lafresnayes' description as cited above). 



The tail, in the figure cited, is represented as plain black. This species I have 

 not seen, at least no specimen to which this description applies, nor like the 

 figure in D'Orb. Voy. above cited. My present impression and suspicion is that 

 it is the young of the immediately preceding species C. leucoramphus, and, 

 though figured without the yellow spot on the wing, that character is clearly 

 indicated in the description, as above. 



11. Cassicclcs flavicrlssus, Sclater. 



Cassiculus flavicrissus, Sclat. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 18G0, p. 2'7G. 



"Nigerrimus: dorso postico, tectricibu.s alaribus dorso proximis, crisso et rectricibus ad 

 basin flavissimus : rostro plumbeo, apice albicaute : pedibus nigris." 



" Long, tota maris lO'O, alse 5-8, caudee 40; feniiufe S'o, alee 4'4, caudte 3-3."' 



" Hah. in rep. Equator." 



" Mus. P. L. S." 



" Four examples. Irides and bill blue : not shy; very noisy, in flocks among large trees 

 in the deep busli; stomach contained seeds and insects." (Dr. Sclater'a description, a'< 

 above cited). 



This species is unknown to me and not in any American collection to my 

 knowledge. It is evidently a strongly marked and peculiar species, tlie base of 

 the tail being yellow, which is its special character in the group Cassiculus. 



18G7.] 




DO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



(Genus Arcliiplanus, Cabanis). 



12. Cassiccs albirostris, Yieillot. 



Cassicus albirostris, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. \. p. 364. (1816). 

 Xanthonius ehrjsopterus, Yig. Zool. Jour. ii. p. 190 (1825). 

 lapus dubius, Merr. Grub. Ency. xv. p. 277. 

 Zool. Jour. Supp. pi. 9. 



Small, much resembling the preceding (C leucoramphus) and with the same colors, hut 

 much smaller. Head with somewhat lengthened and proVjably erectile feathers; bill thick 

 at base, straight, pointed; wing long, third and fourth quills longest; tail rather long, feet 

 strong. Adult. Rump and large spot on the wing coverts yellow, all other parts deep 

 black, upper tail coverts and tail black. Bill yellowish or ivory white, frequently greenish 

 at base ; legs brownish black. Younger. Entire black plumage tinged with brown, and 

 yellow parts with greenish ; bill dark broi\-nish, tip paler. 



Total length, male, about 834 inches, wing 4, tail 4 inches. Younger or female, total 

 length about 7 j^, wing 3}^, tail 3)^ inches. 



Bah. — Brazil, south-eastern South America ? Spec, in 5Ius. Acad., Philada., and Mu.s. 

 Smiths., Washington. 



In colors and general characters this bird much resembles the preceding 

 (C. leucoramphus), but is smaller, with the feathers of the head more lengthened 

 and crest- like, and has the yellow of the rump much more restricted. It seems 

 to belong strictly to the same group, and in my opinion is certainly of the 

 group Cassiculus. Specimens in the Mus. Smiths, from the Rio Parana, Brazil, 

 and in the Acad. Mus. labelled Brazil. 



3. Os tin ops. 

 (Genus Ostinops, Cab, Mus. Hein., i. p. 187 (1851). 



13. Cassicus citrecs (Miiller). 



Oreolus citreus, Miill. Syst. Xat Supp., p. 87 (1776). 

 Oriolus cristatus, Bodd.'Tab. PI. Eul., p. 20 (1783). 

 Oriolus cristatus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 387 (1788). 



Xanthornus decumanus et maximus. Pall. Spic. Zool., pt. vi. pp. 1, 3 

 (1769). 

 Buff. PI. Enl., 344. Pall. Spic. Zool.. pt. vi. pi. 1. Swains. B. of Braz., pi. 

 32. Dubois Orn. Gal., pi. 34. 



Large, with a crest of linear, procumbent feathers ; bill large, very thick at base ; wing 

 long; fourth quill usually longest; tail long, graduated; legs strong! Adult. Tail feathers 

 yellow, except the two in the middle, which are black ; lower part of the back, and upper 

 and imder tail coverts, dark chestnut. All other parts of plumage black, generally lus- 

 trous, and frequently with a brownish shade ; bill yellow; legs brownish black. Younger. 

 Brownish black, with entire tipper and under parts of body tinged with dull reddish chest- 

 nut; (tail coverts and tail as in adult). Total length, male, about 15 to 18 inches; wing 81^ 

 to 10, tail 8 to 9 inches. Female, 13 to 15, wing 61/ to 7, tail 7 to 1)4 inches. 



Hah. — South America ; Brazil; Ecuador; New (jrenada; Trinidad. Spec, in Mus. Acad., 

 Philada.. and Mus. Smiths., Washington. 



H The largest specimens of this abundant species in the series now before me 

 are from Ecuador, and the smallest are from the island of Trinidad ; but I fail 

 entirely to detect diiferences or to discriminate between those from various 

 localities. The female is decidedly the smaller. Numerous specimens in the 

 Mus. Smiths., AVashington, and Mus. Acad., Philadelphia. 



The finest-plumaged as well as largest specimens that I have seen of this 

 bird are in the very valuable collection made in Ecuador, by the Hon. Charles 

 R. Buckalew, late Minister of the United States to that country, and presented 

 by him to the Smithsonian Institution. 



14. Cassicus viridis (Miiller). 



Oriolus viridis, Miill. Syst. Nat. Supp., p. 87 (1776). 

 Xanthornus virens, Schreber, Naturforscher, xviii. p. 1 (1782). 

 Oriolus viridis, Bodd. Tab. PI. Enl., pi. 20 (1783). 

 Cassicus viridis, Yieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p. 364 (1816). 

 Oriolus rufirostris, Shaw, Gen. Zool. Aves. vii. p. 416 (1809). 

 Buff. PI. Enl., 328. Naturforsch, xviii. pi. 1.' 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



Large, bill very thick at base, tapering rather suddenly, elevated in front, straight ; wing 

 long, third quill longest; tail rather long ; legs and feet very strong. Head with a crest of 

 very slender, recumbent feathers. Adult male. Tail yellow, e.x:cept the two middle fea- 

 thers, which are dark-greenish brown ; back and upper tail coverts, lower part of abdomen, 

 tibiae and under tail coverts dark chestnut. Quills black. All other parts of plumage dark 

 yellowish green, lighter on the under parts. Bill greenish yellow, legs black. Female. 

 Smaller than the male, but similar in colors. Young. Tibiae green. Total length, male, 

 about 18 inches; wing about 10, tail 7 to 7K inches. Female. Total length about 14; wine 

 714 to 8, tail o}4 inches. " & , g. 



/fa6.— Northern and Eastern South America. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada. 

 This large species is to be found in all collections, and has long- been known 

 to naturalists, but, like rather numerous common sijecies, must be studied care- 

 fully in connection with its later-discovered allies. Specimens in the Mus. 

 Acad, have no labels stating locality, but this bird comes abundantly in col- 

 lections from Brazil, and I have seen it from more northern countries of South 

 America. 



15. Cassicus ydracaridm, D'Orbigny et Lafresnaye. 

 Cassicus yuracares, D'Orb. et Lafres. Mag. Zool., 1838, p. 2. 

 Cassicus Devillii, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p 427 (1850). 



D'Orb. Voy. Ois., pi. 51, fig. 1. Castelnau Voy. Ois., pi. 19, fig. 1. 



Large, resembling the preceding, and about the same size, but with a large naked space 

 at the base of the lower mandible, and the bill black, tipped with yellow. Back, wings 

 and abdomen dark chestnut, tail yellow, except two middle feathers, which are reddisli 

 brown. Head, neck and breast and upper part of back yellowish green; quills brownish 

 black, edged externally with dark chestnut; legs black. Female like the male, but 

 smaller. Younger like the adult, but with the chestnut on the under parts more i-estricted, 

 and on the back mixed witli green. Head (in adult) with a crest of slender recumbent 

 feathers, wing long, third quill longest, tail moderate or rather long, legs very strong. 

 Total length, male, about 18 inches ; wing 9j^, tail 7}^ inches. Female. Total leugtli 

 about 15 ; wing 7]4< tail S% to 7 inches. 



Hah. — Northern South America; New Grenada; Bolivia; Peru. Spec, in Mus. Acad., 

 Philada., and RIus. Smiths., Washington. 



About the size of the common C. viridis, but easily distinguished by its 

 chestnut-colored back and abdomen, and the large naked space at the base of 

 the lower mandible. Numerous specimens in the Mus. Smiths., from various 

 localities in New Grenada, and in Mr. Lawrence's collection from the " Rio 

 Napo." Specimens in the Acad. ]\[us., from the fine collection made by the 

 Hon. John Randolph Clay, while Minister of the United States to Peru. Very 

 handsomely figured by D'Orbigny, as above. 



16. Cassicus atro-virens, D'Orbigny et Lafresnaje. 



Cassicus atro-virens, D'Orb. et Lafres. Mag. Zool., 1838, p. 1. 

 D'Orb. Voy. Am. Ois., pi. 51, fig. 2. 



Like the preceding, but smaller and of a darker green color. Bill very thick at base, 

 tapering abruptly; wing long, second, third and fourth quills longest and nearly equal ; tail 

 rather long, legs strong. Adult ? Back and upper and under tail coverts dark chestnut, a 

 large frontal space pale yellow ; all other parts of the Vjody, above and below, and wings, 

 dark olive green, darker on the head, paler on the throat and neck. Tail with the middle 

 and outer feathers dark olive, nearly uniform with the body; intermediate feathers (of 

 the tail) yellow. Bill greenish yellnw. lci;s Mack. Tibiae green. Quills brownish black. 

 Total length about 1.5 inches; wing si., i,, !i. tail 7 inches. 



i/afc.— Bolivia. Spec, in Mus. Acacl.,'l'hilatla. 



The only specimen of this species is D'Orbigny's type in the Massena col- 

 lection, (Mus. Acad.) It is singularly like all the preceding, but of a darker 

 green color, nearly uniform on all parts, but rather darker on the head aljove, 

 and back. This darker color is the principal character on which rests the 

 species, so far as I can discover. In this specimen there is no crest, but the 

 feathers of the head are somewhat lengthened only. I regard it as possible 

 that this species and the next may be identical, but such is not my opinion at 

 pi'csent. Fairly represented in D'Orbigny's plate. 



17. Cassicus Alpredi, Des Murs. 



Cassicus Alfredi, Des Murs, Castelnau's Voy. Am. Ois., p. G7 (1855). 

 " Ostinops angustifrons." Jules Verreau.x' label iu Mus. Smiths, 

 Casteln. Voy. Am. Ois., pi. 19, fig. 2. 



18G7.] 




\ 

 70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Several specimens in the Acad. Mus. and Smitbs. Mus. seem to be this spe- 

 cies. All are labelled " Bogota," and four specimens in the Smiths. Mus. are 

 certainly correct, and so are other specimens in Mr. Lawrence's collection. 

 This bird ditfers from C. viridis and C. atrovirens, in having the head, in front, 

 yellow, and this yellow color strongly tinging the neck and the throat ; and, 

 in nearly all specimens, the body, above and below, is more or less tinged with 

 reddish brown, sometimes strong, but frequently faint. Nearly all the feathers 

 of the crown are lengthened and crest-like in a greater degree than in C. atro- 

 virens. At present my impression is that this is a distinct species, though no 

 specimen that I have seen seems to be entirely adult. 



About the size of C, riridis, and of the same general form and colors, but with the wings 

 and tail longer, and with a large space in front, and frequently extending over the top of 

 the head, yellow. Back and rump reddish brown ; the latter (rnmp) usually with a yellow- 

 ish tinge; "sides of abdomen and under tail coverts reddish or yellowish "brown. Entire 

 other plumage olive green; head, in front, yellow, throat and neck strongly tinged with 

 yellow. * Wings brownish Vjlack, middle and outer feathers of tail greenish Virown, other 

 tail feathers yellow. Bill pale yellow, legs dark brown. Total length, male, about 17 

 inches; wing 9}^, tail 71^ inches. Female? Total length about 13; wing l]/^, tail &/, in. 



Hah. — Northern South America; New Grenada. Spec, in Mus. Aead. Philada., and Mus. 

 Smiths., Washington. 



This bird comes occasionally in Bogota collections, though not commonly. 

 It seems to have the wings rather longer, and perhaps the tail also longer, 

 than in either C. viridis or C. alrovirens, and my opinion is that it is distinct 

 from either. It differs from C. angustifrons in having the bill always yellow, 

 (not black at all ages, as in C. angustijrons). 



In the splendid collection of Bogota birds, recently presented to the Smith- 

 sonian Institution by the Hon. A. A. Burton, late Minister of the United States 

 to New Grenada, there are four specimens of this species, and others also, 

 from Bogota, are in the Acad. Mus., Philadelphia, and in the collection of my 

 friend Mr. Lawrence, of New York. This seems to be clearly the bird de- 

 scribed and figured by Des Murs, as above, the lengthened feathers of the head 

 being quite peculiar and characteristic, and partially shown in Castelnau's 

 plate, as above. 



18. Cassicds angcstifroxs, Spix. 



Cassicus angustifrons, Spix Av. Bras. i. p. 66 (1824). 

 Spix Av. Bras. i. pi. 62. 



Differs from all the preceding species in having the bill black at all ages. Large ; a few 

 feathers of the crown lengthened and crest-like; bill straight, thick at base, flattened 

 laterally, not so large as in the preceding species. Wing long, fourth quill longest; tail 

 long, rounded, feet strong. Adult. Entire plumage greenish brown or dark chocolate 

 color, lighter and tinged with yellowish green on the head and throat, and, in some speci- 

 mens, on the under parts of the body. Back and upper and under tail coverts dark red- 

 dish chestnut. Wings brownish black, middle feathers of the tail brownish black, others 

 yellow, bill and feet brownish or bluish black, lighter and sometimes nearly white at the 

 tip. Younger. Head and neck strongly-tinged with dull yellow, and tail tinged with green. 

 Sexes alike and distinguished mainly" by size? Total length, male, aboiit 18 inches; wing 

 lOj/iJ, tail 9 inches. Female. Total length about 15 J^; wing 8. tail 7}^ inches. 



f?i6. — Northern South Ameriea ; Upper Amazon; Rio Napo. Spec, in Mus. Acad., 

 Pliilada., and Mus. Smiths., Waehitigtoii. 



This large species is always distinguishalde by its black bill, and is darker 

 and differently colored in plumage than either of the preceding. Specimens 

 in the Smiths. Mus. are from Lieut. Herndon's collection on the Amazon 

 River, and in Mr. Lawrence's collection from the Rio Napo. In the Acad. 

 Mus. fine specimens are labelled " Pebas, Haut-Amazon." Very indifi'erently 

 figured by Spix, as above, but recognizable by its black bill, and altogether a 

 peculiar and entirely respectable species, not troubled with near relations. 



19. Cassicus bipasciatds, Spix. 



Cassicus bifasciatus, Spix Av. Bras. i. p. 65 (1824). 

 Spix Av. Bras. i. pi. 61. 



Bill flattened laterally or compressed, a large naked space at the base of the under man- 

 dible, which space is integral, (not divided into two spaces, as in the two next succeeding 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



species). Head with a few long crest-like feathers, not so long nor so narrow as in C. 

 guatimozinus, but longer than in C. Mfmiezumie. Wing moderate or rather long, third quill 

 longest, tail rather long, rounded. 



Adult. Head and breast brownish black, entire upper parts of body, abdomen, under tail 

 coverts and tihi'ne light chestnut. Tail yellow, the two middle feathers dark brown. Bill 

 with its basal two-thirds black, tip yellowish white. Legs brownish black. Sexes alike. 

 Total length, male, 18 to 20 inches; wing 9X to 10, tail 8 inches. Female. Total length 

 about 14 to 15 inches ; wing 8, tail 6 to OJ^ inches. 



Hab. — Northern South America; Para. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada. 



This species and the two next succeeding are much alike in colors and 

 general form. In this species the naked space is always integral, as above 

 described, and the tibias light chestnut, uniform with the abdomen and upper 

 parts of the body. 



Specimens in the Acad. Mus. certainly from Para, Northern Brazil. Spi.x's 

 figure, above cited, is near enough for practical purposes, as the Professor of 

 mathematics says. 



20. Cassicus Montezum.e (Lesson). 



Cacicus Montezuma, Less. Cent. Zool., p. 33 (1830). 

 Less. Cent. Zool., pi. 7. Gervais Atl. Zool., pi. 33. 



Like the preceding, but with the naked space on the cheek partially divided by a line of 

 short, imbricated feathers above the lower edge of the lower mandible, and the iihiie blacl: 

 Head with a few linear, crest-like feathers, (short and inconspicuous, not so long as in either 

 C. bifasciatus or C. gualimminus). Colors much as in the preceding ; head, breast and tibiiB 

 brownish black, body above and below dark chestnut, tail yellow, except the two middle 

 feathers, which are brownish black. Basal half to two-thirds of bill black, tip yellowish or 

 reddish white, feet brownish black. Sexes alike. Total length, male, 18 to 20 inches ; 

 wing 10, tail 8 inches. Female smaller. 



Hab. — Mexico ; Central America. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths., Wash- 

 ington. 



Always has the naked space at the base of the under mandible divided by 

 an imperfect line of short feathers, as represented in Lesson's plate, cited 

 above, and the tibite black, (not light chestnut as in the preceding). This 

 seems to be an abundant species of Mexico and Central America. Lesson's 

 type in Acad. Mus. is labelled " Mexique," others are from San Juan de 

 Nicaragua. Numerous specimens in Smiths. Mus. are from the very fine col- 

 lections made by Dr. C. Sartorius near Vera Cruz, Mexico, by Mr. 0. Salvin in 

 Guatemala, and Mr. J. Carmiol at Angostura and San Carlos, Costa Rica. 



21. Cassicus guatimozinus (Bonaparte). 



Ostinops guatimozinus, Bonap. Compt. Rend., 1853, p. 833. 



Larger than either '^. bifisciatus or C. Mnntfzurme, darker-colored, and the crest feathers 

 longer and more slender; bill thicker at base, and naked space at base of lower mandible 

 eornpletely divided by a line of short feathers. Bill very thick and wide laterally at base, 

 straight, pointed, wing moderate or rather long, tail rather long, legs strong. Adult. 

 Head and entire under parts black, upper parts of body and under tail coverts dark-pur- 

 plish chestnut, tail yellow, except the two middle feathers, which are brownish black. 

 Bill with the lia^al two-thirds lihu-k, tip yellowish white, legs brownish black. Younger? 

 Sides piiriiHsli brown, ntl].T\vis^> us in adult. Total length, male, about 21)/g inches; wing 

 10}^, tail , si. i inches. Feni;ile siii:iller. Total length about l.'iV^ inches. 

 l^Hab. — New Grenada; "Rio Truando;" '-Turbo;" Spec, in Mifs. Smiths., Washington. 



This species is of the same general form as the two immediately preceding, 

 but is much darker in colors, and not difficult to distinguish. The only 

 specimens that I have seen are two in Capt. Michler's collection, made during 

 a survey of the Rio Atrato, New Grenada, now in the Smiths. Mus. The crest 

 in this species is in front, directly at the base of the upper mandible, and is 

 composed of very narrow, almost thread-like feathers, probably erectile. 



4. Ocyalus. 



(Subgenus Ocyalus, Waterhouse, Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1840, p. 183.) 



22. Cassicus latirostris, Swainson. 



Cassicus latirostris, Swains. Cat. Cy., p. 358 (1838). 



Cassicus (Ocyalus) popayanus, Waterh. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1840, 

 p. 183. 



1867.] 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE3IY OF 



Bill thick at base, very wide and convex in front, wing long, primaries attennsrted at 

 their ends, tail rather short, legs moderate or rather weak. Adult. Head above dark 

 chestnut, body above and below rich purplish black, wing lustrous greenish black, four 

 middle feathers of the tail lustrous black, others yellow, widely tipped with black, and 

 outer feathers edged with black on their outer webs. Bill pale bluish yellow, legs brown- 

 ish black. Sexes alike? Younger. Back tinged with the same chestnut as the head, and 

 ^vings nearly plain black, the green lustre being scarcely apparent. Total length about 11 

 inches ; wing 8 to S% tail 4 to 4i^. Female slightly smaller. 



flafc.— Northern South America; New Grenada; ("Popayan," Mr. Waterhouse;) Peru, 

 (Mr. Swainson). Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada. 



This is a richh--colored bird in adult plumage, and represents a strongly- 

 marked subgeneric group in the genus Cassicus, if not entitled to generic dis- 

 tinction with the next species. The general form is short and compact, -with 

 the tail also short, or rather so, and the wings long, with the primaries 

 attenuated at their points, feet rather slender. As Mr. Swainson says truly, a 

 strong '• fissirostral type." The only specimens that I haye seen are male and 

 female in Mus. Acad., Philadelphia, which were obtained from Messrs. VerreauX; 

 Paris, labelled as from New Grenada. 



23. Cassicus Wagleri, G. R. Gray, 



Cassicus Wagleri. G. R. Gray, Gen. Birds, ii. p. 342 (184T). 



Gray's Gen. ii. pi. 85. 



Larger than the preceding, but strictly of the same subgroup. Bill yery large and con- 

 vex in front, wing long, primaries strongly attenuated at their ends, tail rather short, 

 graduated, feet moderate. Adult. Entire head, lower part of back, sides of abdomen and 

 under tail coverts dark chestnut; wings, back and body below lustrous greenish black; 

 tibi» brownish black. Two middle feathers of the tail and outer webs of two external 

 feathers clear black, other tail feathers yellow. Bill yellowish green, legs brownish black. 

 Head with a few filiform crest-like feathers. Sexes alike. Younger. Entire body above 

 and below tinged with dull chestnut, nearly uniform in shade with the head, (biack of the 

 back and body beneath, in the adult, scarcely distinguishable in the young.) wings dull 

 black with little greenish lustre. Bill brownish, yellow at point; "bill in living bird yel- 

 lowish white," (Prof. r. Sumichrast). "Iris light blue," (Mr- J- Carmiol). Total length. 

 male, about 14 inches : wing S}4 to 9, tail b}4 inches. Female. Total length about 12 

 inches; wing 714, tail 4}^ to 5 inches. .,„,.,, 



Bob.— Mexico ; Central America; New Grenada. Spec, m Mus. Acad. Philada., and 

 Mus. Smiths., Washington. 



Abundance of specimens in the Smiths. Mus. from the magnificent collections 

 of Prof. F. Sumichrast in Mesico, and Dr. A. Von Frantzius and Mr. Julian 

 Carmiol in Costa Rica. The latter labelled " San Jose,'" " Angostura," '■ Tur- 

 rialba'" and San Carlos." Also from Guatemala, and Panama and the Rio 

 Truando, New Grenada. In the younger bird, the attenuation at the ends of 

 the primary quills is not so strongly marked as in the adult. This interesting 

 species is accurately and handsomely figured by Mr. G. R. Gray in his great 

 work, "The Genera of Birds," cited above. 



5. Clypicterus. 

 (Genus Clypicterus, Bonap. Consp. Ay. i. p. 426.) 



24. Cassicus Oseryi, Deville. 



Cassicus Oseryi, Dev. Rev. Zool., 1849, p. 57. 

 Castelnau, Voy. Am. Ois., pi. 18, fig. 3. 



"Bee fortement renfle k sa base formant un bourrelet arrondi surla partie frontale, 

 s'etendant jusqu'ala naissance de I'oeil; lorum noirs, bord des paupidres garni de petites 

 plumes noirs ; en dessus d'un brun roux chatain, plus fonce dur le derriere de la tete, plus 

 clair et passant au vert olive sur la partie frontale ; gorge el poitrine d'un jaune plus ou 

 moins olivac&, ohangeant un peu au gris sous la gorge; ventre niele de chatain et de jaune 

 olivatre. Aile a premifere remige noir; les deuxieme, troisieme, quatrieme, cinquieme et 

 sixieme ayant a leurs bords externes, et au tiers de leur longeur k peu prds, une bande 

 jaune allaiit en s'eclaircissant, et s'elargissant de la deuxi&me a la sixieme ; les grandes 

 couvertures des ailes ayant du cote du bord interne une bande rousse chatain, puis une 

 autre d'un jaune olivatre faiblement colore jusqu'a la baguette du milieu, laquelle est 

 noire, ainsi que tout le bord interne. Pied robustes; le pouce et son ongle tr&s-forts. 

 Queue jaune, h I'exception des quatres pennes medianes, et le bord externe de la premiere 



?enne laterale, qui sont d'un brun verdatre fonce. Long, tot 29 cent. 3 mill. Long, de 

 aile 19 c. 3 m. Long, du bee 5 e. 2 m. Larg. du renflement du bee 2 e. a m. Long, de la 

 queue 12 c. 5 m." 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



'■ Hah. — Pebas, sur le Haut>Amazone." (Deville, as above.) "Rubro-eastaneus ; peetore 

 fronteque flavo-olivaeeus ; remigibus fuseis : cauda flavissima, reetricibus mediis margme- 

 que externaruin olivaeeis." (Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 426.) 



These are the original descriptions of a species of which the Prince Bona- 

 parte makes a genus, as above, but which I have not seen. The figure in 

 Casteluau's Voy., above cited, looks much like a young bird, but is different 

 from any species known to me. This bird is given in the catalogue of the 

 Baron Lafresnaye's collection, now in the museum of the Boston Natural 

 History Society. 



(The following may be an additional species of this genus.) 



25. Cassicus leucurus, De Wied. 



?Cassicus leucurus, De Wied, Beitr. Naturg. Bras. iii. p. 1245 (1831). 



" Der weissehwanzige Cassicke. Wird Joncongo genannt." 



" Er lebt, naeli Aussage der Gamacan-\xid.\a,nei, hiiafig an den Ufern des Rio Pardo im 

 Sertong. Der Vogel ist sehwartz, mit weissera Schwanze. Sein Nest haagt er gesell- 

 sehaftlich, wie der Japu, Guasch nnAJapui, an den Bitumen iiber deni Wasser auf. Es hat 

 die Gesljalt wie bei obigeu Arten. Ich habe diesen Vogel dureh Zufall nich zu sehen 

 bekommen." 



Not subsequently determined, and, of course, may have been erroneously 

 reported to the Prince Maximilian. 



v.— Genus AMBLYCERCUS. 

 (Genus Amblycercus, Cabanis Mus. Hein. i. p. 190.) 



1. Amblycercus solitarius (Vieillot). 



Cassicus solitarius, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p. 364 (1816). 

 Cassicus nigerrimus, Spix, Av. Bras. i. p. 66 (1824). 

 Spix, Av. Bras. i. pi. 63. 



Entirely black, except the bill, which is yellowish white. Head with the feathers of the 

 crown somewhat lengthened, and probably partially erectile ; plumage of the back long, 

 ample; wing rather short; fourth quill longest; tail long, rounded; legs strong. Bill 

 straight, flattened laterally or compressed. Black plumage with slight greenish lustre in 

 adult. Sexes alike. Total length about loy^ inches ; wing .3, tail o^^ inches. 



Hub. — Northern and Central South America; Brazil; Ecuador; Bolivia; (Dr. Sclater). 

 Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada. 



A clear black species, frequent in collections from Brazil. The feathers of 

 the head are lengthened in this bird, and the plumage of the back, though 

 ample, is not so much so as in the next succeeding, which is also a plain black 

 species. Specimens in the Acad. ]\Ius. from Brazil, and in Mus. Smiths, from 

 the collections of the Hon. Charles R. Buckalew in Ecuador, and of Com. T. J. 

 Page in Paraguay. Spix's attempt to rejiresent this respectable species, as 

 ahove, miscarried palpably. 



2. Amblycercus Preyostii (Lesson). 



Amblyraraphus Prevostii, Less. Cent. Zool., p. 159 (1830). 

 Less. Cent. Zool., pi. 54. Gervais, Atl. Zool., p. 34. 



Much resembling the preceding, but smaller, and with the feathers of the crown short, 

 (not lengthened, as in the preceding). Bill thick at base, flattened laterally, and not so 

 much convex above as in the preceding. Wing rather short, rounded ; fourth and fifth 

 quills longest; tail rather short; legs tnoderate; plumage of the back very profuse, 

 lengthened. Adult. Entirely black, with little or no lustre ; bill yellowish white ; legs 

 dark brown. Sexes alike. "Eye yellowish white, legs light-lead color, bill greenish yel- 

 low." (Mr. Frederick Hicks, Panama.) Total length, male, about 'Jj^ inches; wing 4}^, 

 tail 4V^ inches. Female. Total length about 8^ inches ; wing .3%, tail a^^inehes. 



HatT—Mexioo ; Central America; New Grenada. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philadelphia, and 

 Mus. Smiths., Washington. ' 



This smaller species much resembles the preceding in form and color, but is 

 quite distinct. The most immediately available characters are the smaller 

 size and lengthened feathers of the back in the present bird, and the bill is 

 more flattened on the cuhnen. In a large number of specimens no one has 

 the feathers of the crown lengthened, as in the preceding. Numerous specimens 

 in the Smiths. Mus. are from the fine collections of Dr. C. Sartorius at Mirador, 

 near Vera Cruz, Mexico, of Prof. F. Sumichrast and Mr. J. Carmiol in Costa 



1867.] 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Rica, and also from Guatemala and Panama, New Grenada. Specimens in 

 Acad. Mus. from Mexico and New Grenada, and in all other collections from 

 everywhere else in Mexico and Central America. 



Here endeth the Icteridie, so far as the knowledge of the present writer doth 

 warrant him in attempting to compass. 



May 7fh. 

 Mr. Yaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The followinfj was presented for publication : 



" Notes on Micropus leucopterus." By Henry Shimer, M. D. 



A letter was read from George W. Tryon, Jr., proposing to deposit 

 his Conchological Library with the Academy on certain conditions, 

 which, on resolution, was accepted. The conchological works consist 

 of about loo bound volumes, and 60 unbound volumes and pamphlets. 

 With this addition to the Library of the Academy, it will contain 

 nearly every known work published on conchology. 



Prof. Leeds made some remarks on the inspiration of oxygen as a 

 remedial agent. He stated that he had inhaled ten gallons, and a 

 friend twelve gallons, without any apparent bad eflfect. 



Jla>/ I'i th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Forty members present. 



The fullowing was presented for publication : 



" Contributions to the History of the Vertebrates of Mcsozoic Pe- 

 riods in New Jersey and Pennsylvania." By E. D. Cope, A. M. 



The death was announced of Dr. C M. Diesing, of Vienna, Corre- 

 spondent. 



May 21st. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven members present. 



The following were presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of five new Unionid^e, kc.'" By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 



" Description of a new genus of Plants." By Alphonso Wood. 



May 28th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-seven members present. 



The following were elected correspondents : 



E. E. Adams, D. D. ; Alexander Winchell, Ann Arbor, Mich. ; 

 Henry Pleasants, Pottsville, Pa , and D. Antonio Raimondi, M. D., 

 Lima, Peru. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



The following were elected members : 



Asa Whitnev, Georo;e Whitney, John R. Whitney, Edward Clarke, 

 Clarence H. Clark, Frank H. Clark, Theodore H. Morris, 0. Nichols 

 Beach, James N. Whelen. Wm. A. Whelen, Alexander W^iilldin, Or- 

 lando Crease, Andrew T. Sloan, D. Murray Chestoa, M. D., Edw. C. 

 Knight, Frank Hazeltine, W^m. R. White, Jr., Daniel H. lioekhill, 

 Franklin S. Wilson, Rev. J. G. Ralston, and Clarence S. Bemenr. 



On favorable report of the Committee, the paper of Prof, Cope, nad 

 May 14th, was ordered to be published in the Journal. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following were ordered 

 to be published : 



Notes on MICROPUS (LYGAEUS) LEUCOPTERUS, Say, ("The Chinch Bug.") 

 With an account of the great Epidemic Disease of 1865 among Insects. 



BY HENRY SHI.MER, A. M. M. D., 



Mount Carroll, Illinois. 



During- the few years preceding the summer of 1865, I was very favorably 

 located for observing the great grain enemy of the West — " The Chinch 

 Bug " — in the midst of one of the most important agricultural regions in the 

 valley of the Mississippi, and with some personal interest in that direction. 

 I gave the subject the most thorough investigation in all its bearings, during a 

 period of several years, and therefore believe that I observed some facts 

 worth recording, although it is an old subject — one upon which much has 

 been written — much, however, upon mere conjecture or ephemeral observa- 

 tion, without sufficiently thorough investigation ; hence, often widely depart- 

 ing from the truth. (See the various printed reports.) 



With the wide-spread destruction that followed the rise and progress of the 

 "Chinch Bug," most western men are quite well acquainted, and many in 

 pocket sadly familiar. Under the genial influence of a favorable clime, the 

 " chinch bug " attained the maximum of its development in the summer of 

 1864, in the extensive wheat and corn fields of the valley of the Mississippi ; 

 and in that single year, three-fourths of the wheat and one-half of the corn 

 crop were destroyed throughout many extensive districts, comprising almost 

 the entire North-west, with an estimated loss of more than one hundred mil- 

 lions of dollars in the currency that then prevailed ; which, if thus continued 

 for one hundred years, and estimating the value of money at the legal rates of 

 our State, annually, would amount to the enormous sum of one hundred and 

 thirty-seven thousand seven hundred and ninety-six millions of dollars lost to 

 the farming community alone. By estimating the effect of this loss upon the 

 various associated interests of the nation, and hj observing the tendency of 

 this insect, unchecked, to spread everywhere in this our rapidly developing 

 country, we can easily see that it would fall short of the true estimate to place 

 the entire loss to this continent, if uninterruptedly continued for one hundred 

 years, equal to a sum sufficiently vast to engulf the present wealth of the world, 

 and all from an apparently " insignificant insect" — a "bug," popularly- un- 

 worthy of notice, as a single specimen. , 



In view of these great facts, I gave the subject my most untiring attention ; 

 the insect enemies of the chinch bug were carefully watched, everything bear- 

 ing upon it was noted, hoping that some practical method might be developed, 

 or some enemy discovered, that would lead us to hope for its ultimate control, 

 if not destruction. 



The ravages of the " chinch bug " have been marked with varying paroxj'sms, 

 from year to year, for a long time, among the records of which it will be seen 

 that Mr. Walsh (Transactions 111. Agricultural Society,) estimates the loss in 



1867.] 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Illinois alone, in the year 1850, to have been four millions of dollars. "What 

 fatality produced the subsequent paroxysms in its development, and so greatly 

 diminished its destructiveness for several years, so that it scarceh' excited 

 much attention, it was not my province to behold: and I believe no record 

 has been made. 



The pleasant dry summers, and the snowy protection of the accompanying 

 winters for several successive years, so fostered these insects that the harvest- 

 men found them in everj' field in unnumbered millions in 1864, blasting the 

 faii'est prospects of the bone and sinew of the land. It was my privilege, in 

 the spring of 1864, to observe the parent insects fulfil the principal office of 

 nature by propagating their species, and quietly die from natural laws after 

 the great object of their being was accomplished. Day after day, it was the 

 greatest pleasure of all my numerous entomological observations, in a scientific 

 point of view, while I deplored their devastations, to mark the progress of the 

 vast hosts of their ofi'spring towards the imago state ever^'where around me. 

 From the platforms of tlie grain reapers in the prairie harvest fields, it would 

 have been no difficult task to gather these little insects by bushels ; and when 

 the dry straw of the wheat fields no longer afforded them nourishment, they 

 took up their line of march for the corn-fields, according to their usual well- 

 known custom, on this occasion almost literally covering the ground in many 

 places ; sometimes gathering together into piles, and here casting their skins. 

 This, being observed carelessh' by farmers and others, leads them to declare 

 that " the ' chinch bugs ' were destroying each other," " that they were dying," 

 &c. ; the dry shells remaining behind being mistaken for the insect itself. 



I have seen the columns of these insects a full week on the march across 

 meadows and pasture fields from the wheat to the corn field ; and have even 

 seen them swim a small stream of water that crossed their line of march. In 

 former years the few border rows of corn, together with the "fox-tail grass," 

 (Setaria,) carelessly left among the corn in cultivating, usually satisfied them. 

 This latter grass is usually attacked in preference to the corn. 



In 1864 whole corn fields were overrun by them ; the stalks, especially 

 below the ears, blackly covered through the day, were bleeding and literally 

 raw from their numerous punctures. At length, when they had attained the 

 perfect state during the warm part of bright sunny days, they took to their 

 wings, and literally filled the atmosphere, not much unlike an April snow 

 storm. This interesting phenomenon induced many to believe that they were 

 leaving the country ; but it was for an entirely different purpose — that of 

 choosing their mates — for they never flj' except in the love season. After a 

 few days they might be found paired in corn fields, and other proper breeding 

 grounds producing a new generation. At this time, in the- month of August, 

 1864, my attention was very favorably directed to a small field of tender, 

 thickly-sown corn for fodder, where they congregated in immense numbers, 

 and continued until the frosts of autumn had killed the corn that they did not 

 consume, and developed their progeny in unnumbered millions. During the 

 day they resorted to the stalks of corn to feed upon the juice, but they passed 

 the night usually upon the ground. 



The two principal insect enemies that I observed among this autumn brood 

 were a very common species of "lady bird," (Hippodamia mactda/a,) and a 

 species of the '■' golden-cjed Hy," [Chrysopa I/linoiensis, Shimer, Proceedings 

 Entomological Society, vol. iv., p. 208). Both these enemies were very nu- 

 merous — especially the former, which could be counted by hundreds on every 

 square yard of ground after shaking the corn : but the chinch bugs were so 

 numerous that these hosts of enemies made very little perceptible impression 

 among them. After the early autumn frosts, they left their feeding grounds, 

 on foot, in search of winter quarters ; none could be seen on the wing, as at 

 harvest time, above alluded to. For a winter retreat, they resorted to any 

 convenient shelter they might chance to find, as long grass, weeds, boards, 

 pieces of wood rails, fallen tree leaves, &c., &c. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



In January, 18G5, I next examined their condition ; those that I found in 

 the sheathes of the coi-n leaves above the snow, and had been thus exposed 

 during the previous severe weather — when, for several successive days, the 

 thermometer was 15° — 20° below zero — were invariably found dead, without 

 exception, and those beneath the snow were alive. This observation was made 

 in the common farm cornfields, as they might be found anywhere all over the 

 wide country: for in autumn the chinch bugs remained in great numbers in 

 the corn husks, and under the sheathes of the blades, as well as in other win- 

 ter retreats. Upon various occasions, as the winter advanced, I brought in 

 corn husks, filled with ice, enclosing the chinch bugs in the crystallized ele- 

 ment ; when the ice was thawed, they were able to run, apparently unaffected 

 by that degree of cold. It is therefore proved that these insects possess vital- 

 ity sufficient to withstand the effect of a temperature below the freezing point, 

 and perhaps below zero, as must have been their condition in these ice-bound 

 husks ; but when in the open air, exposed to the sweeping prairie winds, 15 

 or 20 degrees below zero, for a long time, they succumb to the cold. 



March 7, 1865. The snow having cleared off from the ground, I examined 

 the condition of a host of these chinch bugs that had chosen for their winter 

 covering cord-wood sticks, lying on the ground, entirely surrounded by frost 

 and ice; of these, 20 per cent, were living; those that were more fortunate in 

 their selection of winter quarters fared much better. From a single handful 

 of leaves, picked up at one grasp from beneath an apple tree, I obtained 355 

 living and 312 dead chinch bugs: and of their lady-bird enemies that had 

 entered the same winter quarters with them, 50 were living and 10 dead Of 

 these chinch bugs, I placed a number in comfortable quarters in the house, in 

 a small paste-board box — not in a stove room — together with some coleopterous 

 insects, casually gathered among the chinch bugs ; after one month, I found 

 the latter all dead and the former living. 



The entire month of March was rain, snow, thawing, freezing, alternately, 

 seeming to be very uncomfortable for any living creature to remain out of 

 doors with so poor a shelter, and on top of the ground. 



April 1 — 6. I again made repeated examinations of these chinch bugs in 

 their winter quarters, and found about the same proportion of them living as 

 noted on the 7th of March. At this time they wandered away, on foot, from 

 their winter quarters, in quest of food. 



May 16, 1865, was a delightful, mild, bright, sunny, summer-like day; and I 

 again, for the last time, observed the same highly-interesting phenomena, which 

 I have noticed above as occurring after the harvest of 1864 — the atmosphere 

 swarming with chinch bugs on the wing. This is their spring ; that was their 

 autumnal nuptial season — their season of love. These remarkable little crea- 

 tures prefer to conduct their courtships under the searching gaze of the noon- 

 day sun, instead of at the midnight hour. They were so numerous, alighting 

 on the pavements in the village, that scarcely a step could be taken without 

 crushing many of them under foot. In a few days, they had all disappeared ; 

 their breeding grounds were chosen, where they could be found in great num- 

 bers, often in pairs. I first noticed this disposition of the chinch bug to take 

 wing under the promptings of the love passion, about six years ago, in their 

 autumnal love season. At no other time, save their love season, twice a year, 

 have I ever seen one chinch bug flying. It is quite remarkable that the winged 

 imago, under no other circumstances, will even attempt to use its ample wings. 

 No threatening danger, however imminent, whether of being driven over by 

 grain-reapers wagons, or of being trodden under foot, kc, will prompt it to 

 use its wings to escape. I have tried all imaginable ways to induce them to 

 fly, as bj' threshing among them with bundles of rods or grass, by gathering 

 them up and letting them fall from a height, &c., but they invariably refuse 

 entirely to attempt to use their wings in escaping from danger. The love 

 emotion alone makes them conscious that they are in possession of wings. 

 Mai/ 18th and I9lh. — I find the chinch bugs very abundant in the fields of 



1867.] 




PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



;>-oung spring -wheat, barley, &c., under loose clods of earth, old cornstalks, 

 and about the roots of the grain, in cracks of the ground, &c. In some badly 

 affected fields a dozen or more to every wheat stalk. 



Hay 26th. — The chinch bugs are just beginning to lay their eggs, and some 

 fields of wheat are greatly damaged already from the feeding of the perfect 

 insect. The stalk at the surface of the ground is black from their punctures, 

 the sheaths of the outer leaves being scarred and dead ; the tops are pale yel- 

 low, and often withering ; many stalks are as dead and dry as baj-. I saturated 

 some saw dust with co:u tar, and mixed some quick lime among it, so that it 

 might be in a good condition for handling, and sowed it thickly broadcast over 

 a portion of my wheat field where the bugs were very numerous. 



Mat/ 21th — 29th. — I find the chinch bug eggs more abundant, mostly on the 

 roots and stalks beneath the ground, sometimes in loose clusters of a dozen or 

 more. They are on the roots, where they cross the numerous cracks in the 

 ground ; less frequently on the stem, at the surface of the ground. These eggs 

 are scarcely visible to the naked eye. Many of the bugs are in copulo, with 

 their heads in opposite directions ; the females are the larger, dragging the 

 males when alarmed. The bugs refuse to leave the part of the field where I 

 sowed the tarred sawdust, so there is but little hope of driving them from 

 their once chosen grounds by the reasonable application of strong smelling 

 drugs. 



June lOth. — I saw the first larvae chinch bugs of the season, small red fel- 

 lows, on the roots : eggs very numerous. Actually saw a female laying an 

 egg on my hand, under a slight pressure. 



The egg is elongate ovate, about four times as long as wide (as nearly as I 

 could determine with fine mathematical instruments -04 in. long and -01 in. 

 wide : of course this lacks the precision of a micrometer measurement) pale 

 amber white when first laid, but becoming of a reddish color, like the young, 

 as the season of incubation advances. A moderate amount of moisture is 

 necessary to the development of the egg. Those put into a pasteboard box in 

 vaj room did not hatch, but shi'ivelled or dried up. 



June nth. — Millions of very small red young chinch bugs : they are on the 

 roots, in crevices, and on the stems, under clods. &c., beneath the ground. 

 The egg-laying season has terminated ; the parent bugs are principally dead. 

 Those that died before the rains a few days ago are mouldy : others, in great 

 numbers, in many places covering the ground, apparently are just dead. Dur- 

 ing the past month, as I learned from many observations, they passed most of 

 their time beneath the ground, in the crevices, &c., so that although millions 

 of them existed in every field, a casual observer would believe that but a few 

 were there. But their work being finished, they came out to die. A very few 

 imago, scarcely one of a hundred, yet remain alive. 



July 1st. — I ploughed a few acres of badly affected barley beneath the ground, 

 to see what effect it would have upon the bugs, hoping that it might destroy 

 them, and thus save the adjoining corn. 



July I6th. — A farmer four miles from here informed me that a black coleop- 

 terous insect was destroying the chinch bugs on his farm very rapidly ; and 

 although I found his supposition to be an error, yet I found many dying on the 

 low creek-bottom land from the effects of some disease, while they are yet in 

 the larva; state — a remarkable and rare phenomenon for insects thus in such a 

 wholesale manner to be dying without attaining their maturity, and no insect 

 enemy or other efficient cause to be observed capable of producing this impor- 

 tant result. 



July 22d. — Saw the first matured young chinch bug observed this year. 

 Wings perfect, body pale reddish white, fresh from its last moulting. It is just 

 57 days from the time I saw the first egg, and 42 days since I saw the first 

 larva. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



On the low grounds the voung chinch bugs are all dead from the disease 

 above alluded to, and the same disease is spreading ra2)idly on the hills and 

 high prairies. 



The weather has been very wet since the first of July, and the barley above 

 alluded to, which I ploughed beneath the ground, did not die, but assumed a 

 j'ellow, sickly appearance ; in its shady, compressed, unnatural position, the 

 ends of the heads project from beneath the furrows. The chinch bugs also 

 remained alive for a time, but feeding on the sickly grain and shaded from the 

 sunlight, what little we had, were attacked by disease in the same manner and 

 about the same time as those on the low creek-bottom lands, meeting very 

 rapidly the same fate, so that very few of them ever found their way to the 

 neighboring corn. 



July '28th. — In the fields where 60 daj's ago I saw plent}' of eggs, and 42 days 

 ago an abundance of young chinch bugs, the imago are beginning to develop 

 quite plentifully. Great numbers, in all stages of their development, are dying 

 of the i^revailing disease. 



Au(/. 9th. — The majority of the chinch bugs yet alive are in the imago state, 

 but they are being rapidly destroyed by the prevailing epidemic disease, more 

 fatal to them than the plague or Asiatic cholera ever was to man, more fatal 

 than any recorded disease among men' or animals since time began. 

 Scarcely one in a thousand of the vast hosts of young bugs observed at the 

 middle of June yet remain alive, but plenty of dead ones may be seen every- 

 where, lying on the ground, covered with the common mould of decom- 

 posing animal matter, and nothing else, even when examined by the mi- 

 croscope. Even of those that migrated to corn fields a few weeks ago, in such 

 numbers as to cover the lower half of the corn stalks, very few are to be found 

 t. maining alive ; but the ground around the base of the corn hills is almost 

 iterally covered with their mouldering, decomposing dead bodies. This is a 

 matter so common as to be observed and often spoken of b}- farmers. They are 

 dead everywhere, not lying on the ground alone, but sticking to the blades and 

 stalks of corn in great numljers, in all stages of their develof)ment, larva, puj^a 

 and imago. 



Aug. 2'2d. — It is almost impossible to find even a few cabinet specimens of 

 chinch bugs alive, so that I am quite sorry that I did not secure a large supplj' 

 of specimens while they were so numerous, in former years ; for it really ap- 

 pears quite probable that even cabinet specimens will be hard to secure, 

 whereby to remember the fallen race of the unnumbered millions of former 

 years. 



Sept. I3th. — After a whole day's searching in the corn fields, I have just been 

 able to tind two larv^ and a few imago chinch bugs, against the great numbers 

 above alluded to in the corn about this time last year. 



From this scries of investigations I have learned that the parent chinch btio" 

 is occupied about 20 days in laying her eggs, during which time she probably 

 lays about 500 eggs, and then dies ; although careless observers and theorists 

 suppose that she lays many more eggs, and that she continues to lay eggs all 

 summer; also that the egg is about 15 days in hatching, that in from 57 to GO 

 days after the egg is laid the imago appears, and that there are tivo distinct 

 broods in a season, and only two, notwithstanding the often promulgated opin- 

 ions of theorists, from their very brief and imperfect and disconnected observa- 

 tions, about chinch bugs being many-brooded. The first brood matures from 

 the middle of July to the middle of August, and the second late in autumn. 

 The elder members of the first brood are 20 days in advance of the younger in 

 their development, hence the former commence depositing their eggs for the 

 autumn brood 20 days before the latter begin, hence the fall egg-laying season 

 covers at least about forty days. This makes a difference of 40 days in the 

 development of the second brood, and abundantly accounts for the fact that we 



1867.] 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



see larva?, pupa and imago promiscuously together, more especially towards 

 autumn. It is also highly probable that none of the first brood survive the 

 following winter, but that they all lay their eggs and die as does the spring 

 brood. A close observer will, however, notice that of the parent bugs in the 

 spring a very few may be seen among the larva and pupa of the spring brood. 

 Quite probably they are such females as never mated nor fulfilled the great law 

 of their being by propagation, and manj- of the males, for, like many other in- 

 sects, the chinch bug lays its eggs and dies. 



It is generally believed among entomologists that insect enemies are the most 

 efficient means in nature for exterminating noxious insects ; but in this remark- 

 able fact iu the history of insects, the great epidemic of 1865 (there can be no 

 doubt about this being an epidemic disease, because the insects died without 

 attaining their maturity), we find a greater enemy, the greatest insect enemy 

 ever recorded, a dreadful "plague," that in a few days almost utterly annihi- 

 lated a race of beings living in the northern part of the valley of the Missis- 

 sippi, outnumbering all the human beings that have ever lived on this planet 

 since the morning of Creation. 



This disease among the chinch bugs was associated with the long-continued 

 wet, cloudv, cool weather that prevailed during a greater portion of the period 

 of their development, and doubtless was in a measure produced by deficient 

 light, heat and electricity, combined with excessive humidity of the atmosphere, 

 whereby an imperfect physical ("bug") organization was developed. The dis- 

 ease was at its maximum during the moist warm weather that followed the 

 cold rains of June and the first part of July. The young chinch bug spent a 

 great portion of its time on or near the ground, where its body was colder than 

 the atmosphere; hence, upon philosophical principles, there must have been 

 an excessive precipitation of watery vapor in the bronchial tubes. These are 

 the facts in the case, but in the midst of the great obscurity that envelops epi- 

 demic diseases among men, it would be only idle speculation to attempt 

 to define the cause more definitely than the physiological laws already observed 

 seem to indicate. At all events it will require many years of warm dry sum- 

 mers, and accompanying winters of plenty of snow for protection, to reinstate 

 the lost innumerable armies of this insect. 



During the summer of 1866 the chinch bugs were very scarce in all the early 

 spring, and up to near the harvest I was not able, with the most diligent search, 

 to find one. At harvest I did succeed in finding a few in some localities. 



This epidemic disease was not confined to the chinch bug alone. During the 

 summer of 1865 I saw the larv£e of the common striped cucumber bug [Diabroc- 

 tica vittata) on the stems of melon and cucumber vines, above ground, a very 

 unusual place for them. Always before this I have found them on the root, 

 beneath the surface of the ground. This unusual position was evidently to 

 escape the effect of some unnatural conditions. During the latter part of the 

 summer of 1865 the imago were very much less numerous than common. 



The apple-worm (the larva of Carpocapsa [Tinea) pomonella L.) was verj- 

 numerous in 1863-4, affecting almost every apple. In 1865-6 they -were very 

 much less numerous. From observation I conclude that the disease tras pro- 

 duced by the same cause that swept away the chinch bugs. 



The potato-worm [Sphinx qumque-mciculatus) was very numerous in 1864, do- 

 ing much damage to tomatoes. &c. The pupae were extremely abundant in the 

 soil in the spring of 1865, but in autumn no observed larvae had survived. 



The Locuslacite (grasshoppers) were also severely afflicted ; the numerous 

 dead, of all states, were easily seen everywhere, clasping the grass, weeds, &c., 

 in the embrace of death. I might add much more of my observations on these 

 insects, and greatly extend the list of afflicted species, but my object, to prove 

 that epidemic diseases are incomparably the most important agents in all nature 

 in destroying noxious insects, has been sufficiently illustrated. Neither is this 

 a mere isolation, for I have observed diseases among various insects for the 

 past 25 years. 



fMay, 




Proc. AX S Philada 18G7. 



Plaie 1 



n 





MACACUS FUR. SLACK. 



BowOT-S' C" Imp Finia ila 





NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Descriptions of Fiv* New Species of TJNIONID^ and One PALTIDINA of tlie 



United States. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio Bisselianus. — Testa l^evi, oblonga, sublenticular!, iujequilaterali, pos- 

 tice obtuso-angulata, autice rotunda ; valvulis subci'assis, antice aliquanto 

 crassioribus ; natibus prominulis, ad apices concentrico-undulatis ; epidermide 

 tenebroso-oliva, obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus crassiusculis, com- 

 pressis, subelevatis creaulatisque ; lateralibus sublongis, laraellatis subcurvis- 

 que ; margarita carnea et valde iridescente. 



Bab.—BisseVs Pond, Charlotte, N. C, C. M. Wheatley. 



Unio Clixchexsis. — Testa lajvi, triangulari, ad latere planulata, valde inse- 

 quilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassis, antice 

 crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus ; epidermide luteola, ad latere radiata ; 

 dentibus cardinalibus crassis, subconipressis corrugatisque ; lateralibus per- 

 crassis, curtis et obliquis ; margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — Clinch River, Tenn,, Pres. Estabrook, and French Broad River, 

 Dr. Edgar. 



Uxio Jewettii. — Testa lasvi, oblonga, subinflata, valde infequilaterali, postice 

 obtuse angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis subtenuis, natibus prominulis, ad 

 apices concentrico-undulatis ; epidermide fusca ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, 

 obliquis, compressis ; lateralibus, praslongis lamellatisque ; margarita alba et 

 iridescente. 



Ilab. — Florida, Col. Jewett. 



Margaritana Columbensis. — Testa la^vi, elliptica, valde inflata, subequi- 

 laterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis tenuibus ; natibus 

 prominentibus, ad apices undulatis; epidermide luteola, obsolete radiata; 

 dentibus cardinalibus parvis, sublobatis ; margarita alba et aliquauto iri- 

 descente. 



Hub. — Tombigbee River, near Columbus, Miss., W. Spillman, M. D. 



Anodoxta Toucoxensis. — Testa la^vi, elliptica, valde inflata, valde intequi- 

 laterali, postice subbiangulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis ; natibus 

 prominulis, aliquauto undulatis; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, radiata; mar- 

 garita albida. 



Hab, — Head waters of the Youcon, Arctic America. 



Paludina Spillmanii. — Testa transverse exillissime striata, obtuse carinata, 

 subelliptica, subtenui, imperforata ; spira aliquauto exserta ; suturis impressis, 

 anfractibus quinis, subinflatis ; apertura parviuscula, ovata, intus CJsruleo- 

 alba ; labro acuto, parum sinuoso ; columella parum incrassata. 



Mab. — Jackson Co., Alabama, W. Spillman, M. D. 



Description of a New Genus of Plants. 



BY ALPHONSO WOOD. 



BREVOORTIA, nov. gen. 

 Periantliium corollaceum (coccineum), tubuliforme, superne ventricosum 

 fauce remissfe contractii, regulare, persistens ; limbo ti-partito, laciniis ovatis, 

 obtusis, arete revolutis, sexies tubo brevioribus. Corona (flava) brevis, erecta, 

 tribus squamis truncatis integris, bis latioribus quam longis, constituta. 

 Stamina 3, squamas excedentia. Filamcnta per totam longitudinem tubo adnata, 

 intcrioribus laciniis opposita, ac cum squamis altornantia. Anthera? libera; 

 oblongo-lineares, extrorsaj, apice obtusa^, basi profundi bifidas ibique insertie. 

 Ovarium libcrura, ovatum, triloculare. Ovula in loculis 3 — 5, uniseriata. 

 Stylus continuus, erectus, longitudine pcrianthii. Stigma capitatum, triloba- 

 tum. Capsula? 



1867.] 6 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Herba glabra, scapigera (bulbosa?). Folia 5 — Y, linearia, canaliculata, ob- 

 tusa. Scapus teres, erectus,.rigidus, 2 — 4 pedalis, longitudine foliorum. Flores 

 8 — 12, in apice scapi umbellati, unciales, nutantes, spatha 4-Yalvi sufFulti ; 

 pedicellis 1 — 2 policaribus dififusis ; bracteis ovato-lanceolatis, purpureis. 



B. Ida-Maia. Grows in deep rich soil on high hills of the Trinity Mt. Range, 

 Shasta county, California, near the stage-road from Shasta City to Yreka. I 

 saw it here in full bloom about the first of June, 1866, occupying a space of 

 several acres. The leaves are very long and narrow, and recurved. The 

 scape, although slender, is rigidly erect, of three, or even four feet high, round, 

 smooth, wavy, and bearing at the top an umbel of about twelve scarlet or 

 bright red flowers, nodding on their slender, recurved, unequal foot-stalks. 

 The form of the perianth is between cyliudric and pyriform, about one inch in 

 length, with the limb very short, of six valvate lobes. Before opening, these 

 lobes are chrome-green in color, making a peculiar contrast. After opening 

 they are yellow. The three leaves (scales) constituting the corona are yellow, 

 one line in length by two or three lines in breadth, occupying the place of, 

 but in no wise resembling abortive stamens. Unfortunately I found no speci- 

 men in fruit ; neither did I secure a bulb, so deeply buried were they, and so 

 impatient of delay were my fellow passengers. The whole plant possesses 

 singular grace and beauty, and few are better worthy of a place in the flower 

 garden. 



The new genus Brevoortia is nearly allied to Brodifea (Smith), Dichelostem- 

 ma (Kunth), Stropholirion (Torr.), &c., of the Natural Order Liliaceae, tribe 

 Asphodelcfe. All have the floral envelopes more or less united, with only 

 three perfect stamens. Other three stamens (usual to the Liliaceffi) are vari- 

 ously transformed, as in the following Synopsis : 



Leucocortne, three abortive filaments subulate or clavate. 



Brobi^a, three abortive filaments lanceolate-spatnlate. 



DiCHELOSTEMMA, three abortive filaments petaloid, bifid, — a 3-lobed crown. 



Stropholirion, three abortive filaments petaloid, 2-parted, — a 6-lobed crown. 



Brevoortia, three abortive filaments petaloid, entire, twice broader than long, 



truncate, with no semblance of stamens remaining. The perianth also wholly 



diverse in form from that of the four preceding. 



This plant was first noticed by Mr. Burke, stage-driver, in his daily route, 

 and by him my own attention was first called to it. He had given it the name 

 of " Ida May, in affection for his little daughter," — a name quite appropriate, 

 moreover, as on the Ides {i. e the 15th) of May, the plant begins to flower. 

 Jlr. Burke was confident that this was its only locality. Probably, however, it 

 may yet be found in many other places in northern California. 



We dedicate this genus to J. Carson Brevoort, of Brooklyn, a Regent of the 

 University of the State of New York, himself an earnest naturalist, and a libe- 

 ral patron of science. 



June 4fh. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



The death of Miss Margaretta H. MorriSj member of the Academy^ 

 ^as announced. 



June lith. 

 The President, Dr. Hats, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-six members presect, 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



83 



The following was presented for publication : 



'' On the Faioilies of the Ilaniform Anura." By E. D. Cope. 



June ISfJi. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Eleven members present. 



"yiP "W 



!\jwis 'm\ \f //•■,., 



■-r^i 



Longiludinal section of Sahdmria, shovnng wood cells of the first year's groivth, with xpiral ducts 

 intervening between them and thejnth. 



Dr. H. 0. Wood, Jr., called the attention of the Academy to the existence of 

 true spiral ducts in the wood of Salisburia adiantifolia, a Japanese tree belong- 

 ing to the Taxineee, now extensivelj cultivated in Europe and this country, and 

 remarkable for its leaves more closely resembling in general appearance those 

 of some ferns than any exogen. He stated that, as far as he was aware of, 

 ducts had not hitherto been found in any coniferous wood, and even in the 

 Salisburia their j)osition and arrangement were eminently peculiar, — different 

 from those of the Angiosperms. The only layer of the wood in which they 

 were produced was that formed during the first season of growth, all the other 

 rings being composed simply of prosenchymatous cells, of the ordinary conife- 

 rous type. The medullary rays in the Salisburia are not continuous and well 

 pronounced, but the points of the wood wedges formed during the first season 

 are usually separated by well pronounced prolongations of the pith. It is in 

 the extreme points of these wedges that the spiral ducts are situated, from 

 three to six or even more deep. They are of small size, the largest scarcely ex- 

 ceeding the wood cells in diameter, the smallest scarcely one-third as large, — 

 and contain some one, some two spiral fibres. The veins of the leaves are also 

 composed largely of spiral ducts, but in these there is a strong tendency in the 

 component cells of the vessel not fully to unite and be merged into one 

 another ; in many instances their end walls are not absorbed, so that each cell 

 is distinct and jierfect. 



June 25th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



The Committee to which was referred the communicatioa entitled 

 1867.] 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



" On tne Families of the Kaniform Anura," by E. D. Cope, reported 

 in favor of its publication in the Journal. 



The following letter was read from Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. : 



Dr. Jos. Leidy : 



Dear Sir,— A few weeks since I proposed to deposit my collection of Shells, 

 &c., in the Museum of the Academy, subject to certain conditions. These 

 conditions were, as I learn from the minute book, " unanimously agreed to.' 

 but they do not appear at length on the minute book, nor upon the record of 

 Donations to the Museum, and my letter containing them appears to have 

 been mislaid or lost. 



I now repeat the conditions upon which I make the deposit of my shells, in 

 order that they may be again acted on by the Academy and, if accepted, en- 

 tered at length upon the minutes of the meeting. 



1st. That all the species and varieties not now in the Academy's collection, 

 as well as specimens from localities different from those now contained in it, 

 shall be intercallated with the Academy's collection, but distinguished by 

 their labels. 



2d. That names of species representing authors' types shall never be changed. 



3d. That the Academy will, immediately upon occupying its new Hall, pro- 

 vide a sufficient number of horizontal or table cases to display advantageously 

 the entire collection ; the cases to be constructed so as to prevent the ingress 

 of dust. 



4th. I reserve the right to sell the duplicates as well as the cases in which 

 my collection is now contained, for the purpose of augmenting, with the pro- 

 ceeds of such sale,^he Conservators' Fund of the Conchological Section of the 

 Academy. 



5th. That the Conservators elected by the Conchological Section of the 

 Academy, as well as the scientific Standing Committees of the said Section, 

 shall have access to and control of the entire conchological collections of the 

 Academy, subject to the supervision of its Curators. 



6th. That none of the specimens deposited by me shall be loaned or removed 

 from the custody of the Academy. 



The deposit will never be withdrawn provided that the Academy shall faith- 

 fully observe the above conditions in every particular. 



Yours, truly, Geo. "W. Tryon, Jr. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 



S. Morris Wain and B. Hammit. 



The following were elected correspondents : 



C. William Zaremba, St. Joseph's, Mich. ; H. E. Dresser, London ; 

 M. H. Crosse, Paris ; Dr. Paul Fischer. Paris ; M. J. R, Bourguignat, 

 Palis; R. P. Montronzier, New Caledonia; G-eo. French Angas, Port 

 Jackson ; Henry Adams, London ; Arthur Adams, London ; Dr. J. C. 

 Chenu, Paris; Hon. Edw. Cbitty, Kingston, Jamaica; J. B. Gassies, 

 Bordeaux; Sylvanus Hanley, London ; J. Gwyn JeflPreys, London ; Dr. 

 H. C. Kuster, Cassel ; Arthur Morelet, Dijon ; Dr. Louis Pfeiffer, 

 Cassel; Prof. 0. A. L. Miirch, Copenhagen ; Prof. F. H. Troschel, 

 Bonn ; G. S. Yon Mohrenstern, Vienna ; Fred. Cailliaud, Nantes ; A. 

 P. Server, Lyons ; Petit de la Saussaye. Paris ; Wesley Newcomb, 

 M. D., Oakland, Cal. ; Dr. J. G. Cooper, San Francisco, Cal. ; R. E. C. 

 Stearns, San Francisco, Cal. : Prof. F. Poey, Havanna; Dr. J. Grund- 

 lach, Havanna; Dr. R. A. Philippi, Santiago, Chili; H. Benson, Chel- 

 tenham, Eng. ; Henri Drouet, Troyes; Dr. Auguste Baudon, Bauvais, 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



France ; M. C. Kecluz, Paris ; Dr. Leon Vaillant, Paris; Baron de Cas- 

 tello de Paiva, Lisbon ; Dr. Gr. Yon dam Busch, Bremen ; J. C. Cox, 

 Sydney, N. S. Wales; Jules Mabille, Dinon, France; Luigi Benoit, 

 Messina; J. Gonzales Hidalgo, Madrid ; Abbe Joseph Stabile, Milan ; 

 M. Souverbie, Bordeaux. 



Dr. Leidy remarked that the fine specimen of the cranial portion of a fossil 

 ox skull, from St. Francisco, California, presented this evening by William M. 

 Gabb, of the California Geological Survey, approached sufficiently near in size 

 and form to the corresponding fragment of a skull from Big-bone-lick, Ken., 

 referred to Bison aniiquus, that it might be regarded as of the same species. 

 Both probably belong to the female of Bison latifrons, as originally suggested 

 in relation to the Big-bone-lick fragment. Prof. Riitimeyer, who has ably 

 investigated the geological history of the bovine family, reverses the reference 

 of the fossils to the sexes, and regards the American forms as of the same spe- 

 cies as the European Bison priscus. 



The measurements of the cranial specimen presented this evening are as 

 follows : 



Distance between tips of horn cores 3 feet. 



Length of horn cores, following the lower curve 14J- in. 



Circumference at root of horn cores 15 in. 



Distance between roots of horn cores 14 in. 



Length from inion to naso-frontal suture 13| in. 



Depth of inion 8 in. 



Breadth of inion 13 in. 



Prof. E. D. Cope called attention to a collection of reptiles from Owen's Valley, 

 California, made and presented by Dr. Geo. H. Horn. He observed that they 

 confirmed the conclusions derived from the study of the insects, that its fauna 

 was that of the Colorado Region, or the Sonoran district. Characteristic species 

 were Spea bombifrons Cope, Coleonyx variegatus Baird, Rhinochilus 

 lecontei Bd. Gird., Caudisona cerastes Hallowell, and a hew Chi- 

 lomeniscus Cope, which was called C. ephippicus, with the following 

 characters : 



Scales broad, in thirteen rows ; tail about one-seventh total length. Rostral 

 plate large, entirely separating internasals, not encroaching on prefrontals ; 

 nasal plate separating prefrontals and labials, in contact with preocular. Post- 

 oculars two, upper only in contact with occipital. Superciliaries very narrow, 

 occipitals broad as long. Temporals 1, large ; labials above, seven, third and 

 fourth in orbit, these with second, narrow erect; first longitudinal ; fifth and 

 sixth smaller than the others, seventh suddenly larger. Inferior labials eight, 

 first pair in contact before prcgeueials ; postgeneials very small. 



Total length five and one-half inches. Gastrosteges 113, separated from 

 geneials by four rows gulars ; anal 1 — 1; urosteges 28 — 28. Above reddish 

 or yellowish, with twenty-one black cross-bars to vent, which are broader than 

 interspaces, and do not quite reach gastrosteges ; five nearly complete rings on 

 tail. Belly white. From occipitals to anterior part froutal with the labials 

 opposite this part (except their lower edges) black. 



This species is somewhat similar to the C. c i n c t u s Cope, from Sonora, but 

 differs in many details, and in not being annulate. 



He also stated that Scaphiopus h o I b r o o k i i had appeared abundantly in 

 a pond over a mile west of the falls of the Schuylkill. They were the first he 

 had noticed in this neighborhood, though John Cassin had seen them previously 

 in Delaware county. 



The speaker also made some remarks respecting the origin of species, stating 

 that the genera of tree frogs Ilyla, Scj'topis, Osteocephalus and Trachyceidia- 

 lus form a natural series, measured by the relative degree of ossification of the 



1867.] 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



cranium. He stated that individuals of Trachjcephalus first belong to the 

 genus Hyla, subsequently to Scvtopis, later to Osteocephalus, and tinallj to 

 Trachjcephalus, and that no additional characters existed at any of these 

 stages, to render such references inexact. He said that the characters of the 

 inferior genera might be regarded in one sense as larval, and that as the genus 

 Siredon had passed into Amblystoma by loss of larval characters, there was no 

 reason why the preceding genera might not, under suitable circumstances, do 

 the same, respectively. He said also that the specific characters were recog- 

 nizable while the Trachycephalus exhibited the generic type of Hyla and others, 

 suggesting that the specific characters might be more permanent than the 

 generic. A similar case recorded by Agassiz was mentioned, — that of Chelo- 

 pus guttatus, where the yellow spots appear before it has lungs or its family 

 characters. 



July Id. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-four members present. 



July ^th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair, 

 Eighteen members present. 



Dr. Genth made some observations on certain doubtful minerals which he 

 had lately examined. Bamhardtite, the peculiar copper ore which stands be- 

 tween Chalcopyrite and Variegated Copper Ore, occurs amongst the ores of 

 Bill Williams Fork, Arizona. 



From the same locality he observed Brochaniiie, both in foliated masses and 

 small but brilliant crystals. A former pupil of his, Mr. X. S. Higgins, received 

 in Arizona an Arsenide of Copper, the nature of which he did not fully ascer- 

 tain, which proved to be the interesting species Whilnei/ite, of which we have 

 now four localities : two on Lake Superior, one in Chili, and the last at La 

 Lagoona, a rancho near the town of Saric, Sonora. 



The Tellurides from Melones appear to be three distinct species. One seems 

 to be principally Telluride of Silver, with some Telluride of Gold — probably 

 auriferous Hessite. The second is a combination of Telluride of Silver and 

 Lead ; the third, and most interesting of all, is Telluride of Nickel, which he 

 calls Melonite. This is the first time that a combination of Tellurium and 

 Nickel has been observed. It has a reddish-white color, almost exactly like 

 that of Bismuth, and a granular and foliated structure. The three Tellurides 

 are associated with native Gold, Quartz, Pyrites. Chalcopyrite, Calcite, etc., 

 and it is almost impossible to obtain pure material for analysis. 



From several of the mines in Humboldt County, Nevada, he has noticed a 

 mineral with the aspect of Aikinite or Needle Ore, with the examination of 

 which he is at present engaged. 



July \Qth. 

 Mr. Yacx, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



July 23(7. 

 Dr. Bridges in the Chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



fJuly, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 87 



July 30«A. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



The following was presented for publication : 



" Notes on certain Birds from New Grenada, with Descriptions of 

 New Species." By Geo. N. Lawrence. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 



Henry C. Gibson, Chas. Gibson, Andrew M. Moore, John Gibson 

 and T. Brantly Langdon. 



On favorable report of the Committee, the following paper was or- 

 dered to be published : 



The Necessity and Velocity of Nebular Botation. 



BY J. ENNIS. 



If matter were uuiTerScally diffused through all space, the supposition would 

 not be in accordance with experience, that this diffusion would be perfectly 

 uniform and eren. Such is not the result of natural processes in the actual 

 world. The waters of the ocean are not perfectly uniform ; their densities be- 

 ing varied by temperature and saline ingredients. The air is not uniform, nor 

 the vapor of water in the air. Therefore, if matter were universallj' diffused, 

 and contraction were to ensue, then the rarer portions would gather around the 

 denser, and the expanded vapor would break up into separate huge irregular 

 masses, like the clouds when the vapor of the atmosphere is contracting. 



On the surfaces of these separate nebulous masses we can conceive of four 

 sources of motion ; the first only hypothetical, and the other three absolutely 

 necessary. 



First source of motion. In this general diffusion of matter, the supposition 

 would be unnatural that all was perfectly motionless and still. A state of 

 absolute repose might, for aught we know, be possible, but it would be a 

 strange and unheard of assumption. How unlikely that the causes which 

 spread matter abroad so widely should stop entirely, and leave no motion ! 

 Therefore every nebula in its beginning was probably endowed with some 

 movements. 



Second source of motion. When separate nebulous masses were formed by 

 the ordinary principles of contraction and condensation, we cannot suppose 

 they would be stationed at equal and sj-mmetrical distances from one another, 

 any more than we see among the white clouds which float together across the 

 clear blue sky. Neither would they be of equal size, for the heavenly bodies, 

 like the clouds, are very unequal in size. Therefore, by the force of gravity, 

 the smaller would fall into the larger ; and often two or three near togetheV, 

 though of similar size, would fall into one another. But any one could never 

 fall directly toward the centre of gravity of another ; because every approach- 

 ing pair would be more or less under the influence of other neighboring nebu- 

 Ire. Therefore, in striking each other obliquely, and not in the direction of 

 their centres of gravity, a rotation must result. These collisions must have 

 been a thousand times more numerous than the fall of meteors now, and so 

 thej' would continue until space became cleared of all small and neighboring 

 masses, and nothing remained but large and vastly distant nebulae, each one 

 of which is now represented by a great stellar system, containing countless 

 numbers of fixed stars- 

 Third source of motion. By the assumption of the nebular theory, as under- 

 stood by myself, the contraction of a nebula was always much more slow than 

 would be due to gravity. Therefore gravity would make the nebula round, 



1867.] 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



and the irregular projections, perhaps long arms, would slide down laterally in 

 the neighboring depressions. By this process many horizontal currents would 

 be produced on the surface. 



Fourth source of motion. These irregular projections, perhaps great ex- 

 tended arms but little attached to the nebulaj, would be under the influence 

 of neighboring nebulffi similar to tidal influence and stellar perturbation, 

 especially while the nebulae were still near to one another, though contracting 

 steadilj- to greater distances. Therefore the fall of these irregular prominen- 

 ces into the larger mass would be somewhat like the falling together of two 

 independent nebula;. They would not fall towards the centre of gravity of 

 the principal mass, but more or less obliquely, and hence they would lead to 

 rotatory motion. 



From these four sources of motion many currents would flow o?i the surface, 

 at least, of every nebula. In those cases where two large nebula; fell into each 

 other, the currents would pervade the entire mass. But even when the cur- 

 rents were superficial only, they could not stop ; because, on account of the 

 continued contraction of the nebula, they would flow in the direction of an in- 

 clined plane. With their horizontal motion they would have an inclined mo- 

 tion towards the centre, and gravity would hasten them downward. These cur- 

 rents would act and react on one another, and by well known mechanical princi- 

 ples they would all result in a single current, as we see by experiment in a basin 

 or funnel of water. This one current would be around the centre of gravity, 

 and, for the same reason, it could not cease to flow. In consequence of the 

 continued contraction of the nebula, every particle of the surface current is 

 moving in the direction of an inclined plane, and gravity must give them the 

 velocity due to inclined plane motion. If they be retarded by friction on the 

 unrotating or slowly rotating interior, then this interior will be moved in the 

 same direction, and gravity will carry it onward until the entire nebula ro- 

 tates. As the nebula contracts from the extent of its original round form down 

 to near its centre, every particle must acquire a velocity equal to that of a fall from 

 its original to its last extent, excepting only the retardation due to friction. This 

 is one of the most essential ideas in the nebular theory originated by myself, 

 and demands a comi>lete illustration. 



Every body approaching toward the centre of the sun, whether directly or 

 obliquely, must be hastened by the force of gravity. The celebrated Halley's 

 comet, for instance, which requires about seventy-six years to go around its 

 orbit, is beyond the distance of Neptune when it reaches its aphelion ; then 

 the moment it passes its aphelion, and begins its return toward the sun, it be- 

 gins to be hastened on its course by gravity. So it continues to be hastened 

 by that force every hour faster and faster, during thirty-eight years. Being 

 free to move, and unobstructed, it runs in a conic section, and when it arrives 

 at perihelion its velocity has become so great as to have a centrifugal stronger 

 than its centripetal force. Therefore it shoots away from the sun ag-ain, but 

 every hour in its departure its velocity is delayed by gravity. Thus the propo- 

 sition is certain that when a body departs from the sun its velocity is retarded, 

 and when it approaches the sun its velocity is accelerated, by gravity. Every 

 particle in a current on the surface of a contracting nebula is moving oblique- 

 ly, lik,e a comet, towards the centre of the nebulous sun, and therefore they 

 must all be hurried along by gravity. 



Halley's comet, while descending from aphelion to perihelion, may be re- 

 garded as moving down a spiral inclined plane. Its ultimate velocity will be 

 the same as if it had fallen to the sun through the height of the plane, plus its 

 initial velocity at aphelion. That is, its ultimate velocity will be the same as 

 if it had fallen from aphelion in a direct radial line until a distance from the 

 sun equal to its periphelion, plus its initial velocity at aphelion. In the same 

 manner a particle, while descending in its spiral current towards the centre of 

 the nebulous sun, must at any point in its course have the same velocity, fric- 

 tion excepted, as if it had fallen in a direct radial line to that point, i>lus the- 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



initial velocity which it acquired in the rounding process. I have found by 

 calculation that this velocity may be so great as to give all the zone on the 

 nebular equator a centrifugal force equal to the centripetal force. Therefore 

 a period may arrive in the contraction of a nebula, when the equatorial zone 

 cau no longer approach towards the centre, but must be abandoned as a ring 

 circulating around the nebula, until by perturbation it is broken, and subsides 

 by gravity into a rotating nebulous planet. Friction, however, in the cases of 

 some nebula?, may be so powerful as to retard the velocity, and prevent the 

 separation of matter in the form of a ring. 



There are some points of difference between a comet and a particle on a ro- 

 tating equatorial zone. A comet, in departing from the sun, is deprived by 

 gravity of all that velocity which, in approaching the sun, was imparted by 

 gravity. A nebulous particle does not fly off from the centre like a comet 

 when departing from peiiphelion, because it does not run in a conic section; 

 and it cannot pursue a conic section on account of friction, which retards its 

 motion, and also on account of atomic repulsion in the nebulous mass, 

 which forces it outside of the elliptic curve on the way towards periphelion. 

 The spiral course of the nebulous particle, from the slowness of nebular con- 

 traction, is nearly circular, and hence, when the centrifugal equals the centri- 

 petal force, the particle takes nearly a circular orbit. Hence, as it always ap- 

 proaches the centre of the nebulous mass, it always receives velocity from 

 gravity. And when it ceases to approach, it never flies far ofl", and therefore 

 never loses velocity from gravity, as does the comet. 



Gravity could cause no rotation, unless a particle on the surface had first a 

 horizontal motion given in the process of rounding the nebula, and unless the 

 nebula contracted. By this horizontal motion and by contraction, the particle 

 approaches the centre of the nebulous sun obliquely, and gravity hastens it 

 down the inclined path. The particle cannot stop, because there is nothing 

 to make it stop. Repulsion cannot stop it, because repulsion, like centrifugal 

 force, is every instant yielding before it, and allowing it to retain all its actual 

 motion, and to acquire more motion by a fall every instant towards the centre. 

 If it be delaj-ed in its velocitj' by friction on other particles, then just so much 

 momentum must be imparted to them, 'and they too will move in the direction 

 of an inclined plane towards the centre, and these again will move other parti- 

 cles, and so on until the entire mass moves and rotates. If the particle had 

 no horizontal motion, then repulsion and gravity would act upon it in opposite 

 directions, and it would partake only of the general contraction in I'adial lines 

 towards the centre. There could be no rotation. But by its horizontal mo- 

 tion, and by the slow contraction of the mass, — slower than is due to gravity, 

 — the particle finds the path before it every instant settling down. Hence 

 every instant it goes down as it goes forward, and its motion is in the direction of 

 an inclined plane, and subject to the inclined plane law of increased velocity; 

 that is, a velocity equal to that of a fall through the height of the plane. 



Imagine a circle, the equatorial section of a nebulous globe, with a million 

 of radii. Then the particle with a horizontal motion finds at each succeeding 

 radius that the surface, by contraction, has gone down towards the centre. It 

 must, through gravity, follow that surface downward. Every instant, there- 

 fore, it receives a new impulse down its course, — a million of impulses in one 

 revolution. Then, with no impulse in the contrary direction, its velocity must 

 increase. 



By calculating the velocity of the equatorial zone of our sun down an in- 

 clined plane as due to gravity, I ascertained the velocity of rotation of our sun 

 when in a nebulous condition, and found that it precisely equalled, at different 

 stages of its contraction, the present velocities of the planets and asteroids 

 when an infinitessimally small allowance is made for an inevitable friction on 

 the unrotating or slowly rotating interior. These small allowances due to 

 friction are given in my recent volume, " The Origin of the Stars." In that 

 volume also the rotations of the several nebulous planets are shown to have 



1867.] 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



been the same as the present revolutions of their satellites ; and the reason is 

 pointed out why the smaller planets could have no satellites. By these and 

 by many other coincidences the discovery vras first made that gravity is the 



FORCE WHICH IMPARTED ALL THEIR MOTIOXS TO ALL THE STARS. 



It is proper now to attend to three objections which, on account of the pre- 

 sent state of astronomical science, naturally rise against this view of the ne- 

 cessity and velocity of nebular rotation. 



The first objection is that this view " contravenes the principle of conserva- 

 tion of areas." The fallacy of this objection may be seen by a very simple 

 arithmetical calculation. We will take Mercury, whose radius vector moves 

 most rapidly, and at the rate of 110,000 per hour. Neptune is about eighty 

 times farther from the sun. The original extent of our nebulous sun was half- 

 way to the nearest fixed star; say 3,622 times farther than Neptune, and con- 

 sequently, in round numbers, 3622 X 80 = 290,000 times farther than Mercu- 

 ry. The area described by the radius vector of Mercury in one hour equals 

 that radius multiplied by half its distance per hour, say 1 X 110,000-^ 2. 

 The area described by the radius vector of the original nebulous sun must 

 have equalled that radius multiplied by half its distance per hour, say 290,000 

 X Jfc -f- 2. Both these areas must be equal. Now what must be the value of 

 K that, when multiplied by 290,000, gives 110,000 ? Plainly ^1, or I nearly ; 

 that is, the movement of the radius vector of the original nebulous sun, or, in 

 other words, its primary rotation, was about one-third of a mile jier hour. I 

 will soon point out how this velocity was obtained. 



The second objection is drawn from a misapplication of the principle that 

 action and reaction are equal, and in opposite directions. By this principle, 

 when an object falls to the earth, the earth falls proportionall}' to the object ; 

 when we walk forward in a straight line, we push the earth backward pro- 

 portionally ; when a car, by gravity, runs down an inclined plane, the earth 

 as well as the plane moves proportionally in the opposite direction : that is, 

 both upward and backward. Therefore it has been wrongly inferred that when 

 a particle, or all the particles, on the rotating exterior of a contracting nebula 

 move by gravity in the direction of an inclined plane toward the centre, then 

 the interior should move proportionally just the contrary way. It has been 

 wrongly inferred that these two opposite motions should counterbalance each 

 other, that in fact there can be no such operation, that the whole idea is like 

 " the old absurdity of a perpetual motion, or of a man trying to lift himself up 

 by pulling at the straps of his boots." 



But all such inferences show a misunderstanding of the case. "We must 

 learn to see the difference between moving in the direction of an inclined 

 plane, and moving on an actual inclined plane. A comet or a planet approach- 

 ing perihelion is moving in the direction of an inclined plane. With its for- 

 ward motion in its orbit it has an inclined motion towards the sun, and its 

 velocity is hastened by gravity in consequence of this inclination. Imagine a 

 hundred comets all in the plane of the sun's equator, and equally distributed 

 around the sun, and all approaching their perihelion. "While all would be 

 accelerated by gravity toward the sun, the sun would not be moved in any 

 way towards them, because it would be equally acted on all around by the 

 comets. Neither could there be any reaction to make the sun rotate in the 

 opposite direction, because there is no actual inclined plane to cause a back- 

 ward motion. The comets have the inclined plane motion without an inclined 

 plane. In the same manner on the horizontal equatorial zone of a rotating 

 and contracting nebula, all the particles move in the direction of an inclined 

 plane spirally coiled many times around, and all are hastened by gravity 

 according to the law of velocity on such a plane, but not one of them moves 

 down an actual inclined plane. They all repose on a level or horizontal 

 surface! therefore they do not move the interior backward while they move 

 forward. If they were on an actual inclined plane they would create a coun- 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



ter movement. But such is not the case. Each one, while approaching the 

 centre, draws the entire mass up towards itself, as when a fly alights on the 

 earth, but being equally distributed all around, they counteract one anothers' 

 efforts in this regard, and produce no result. The reason why there is a back- 

 ward reaction on a real inclined plane is simply because of the inclination of 

 the surface. An object cannot repose quietly on such a surface. The forward 

 motion of the object must give a backward push to the surface. But when 

 there is no inclined surface, as on an equatorial zone, there can be nothing 

 against which a backward push can be made by mere gravity. 



In its approach toward perihelion a comet is upheld from falling in a straight 

 line toward the sun by centrifugal force ; that is, its plane is sustained by 

 centrifugal force. In like manner, on the equatorial zone of a rotating and 

 contracting nebula, a particle is upheld from falling straight toward the sun's 

 centre, partly by centrifugal force and partly by atomic repulsion ; that is, its 

 plane is upheld partly by centrifugal force and partly by repulsion. But nei- 

 ther of these hinders the force of gravity from imparting every instant an in- 

 creased velocity in the inclined plane direction. Both repulsion and centrifu- 

 gal force are constantly yielding before the power of gravity, and allowing the 

 comet or the particle to be accelerated. In this way inclined plane direction 

 and increasing velocity are produced without an actual inclined plane, and 

 hence one of the reactions of an inclined plane is wanting : namely, the back- 

 ward reaction. The other reaction — the ujjward — is nullified by opposite 

 particles on opposite sides of the nebula. 



Atomic repulsion has two effects different from mere centrifugal force ; it 

 hinders the moving particle from following an elliptic orbit, and it causes re- 

 tardation by friction. But the direction of its action is always in a radial line, 

 always perpendicular to the nebular surface on which the particle quietly re- 

 poses ; and it yields every instant like centrifugal force before the power of 

 gravity, which continually brings the particle toward the centre. In the be- 

 ginning of nebular rotation, and when that rotation is very slow, a particle on 

 the exterior presses with nearly all its weight on the interior. It is then up- 

 held very little by centrifugal force, and chiefly by repulsion. As it moves 

 more rapidly it acquires greater centrifugal force, and presses less heavily on 

 the interior. It becomes hourly less and less upheld by repulsion, and more 

 and more by centrifugal force. At length it is held up entirely by centrifugal 

 force, and presses no more on the interior. It is independent of repulsion ; it 

 circulates freely around the centre, without approaching it. The centripetal 

 and the centrifugal forces are equal. 



An important illustration may be made with a funnel to show that a fluid 

 may move down the direction of an inclined plane without producing the back- 

 ward reaction of such a plane. Suspend the funnel by a single small silk braid, 

 having no twist. Pour in the water, and give a portion a horizontal motion. 

 Give the funnel an equal impulse in the opposite direction. The water, as it 

 runs through the funnel, will rotate, and evidently every particle of the water 

 will run an inclined plane direction, but the plane must necessarily take the 

 form of a coil. According to the principle of the backward reaction on an 

 actual inclined plane, the natural expectation would be to see the funnel ro- 

 tate in the direction contrary to that of the water. But this does not occur. 

 On the other hand, the water, by friction, carries the funnel around in the 

 same direction with itself. In like manner the exterior of a nebula must carry 

 along the uurotating interior with its own motion. The reason is the same in 

 both cases. There is no backward reaction, because in both cases the particles, 

 as they move, repose on a houizostal surface. They do not move down an 

 actual inclined surface, and hence cannot react according to the law of an in- 

 clined plane surface. They have the law of velocitj*, but not the law of back- 

 ward reaction. This absence of the backward, though not of the upward, re- 

 action, may be regarded as a new dynamical principle. It has not before been 

 detected in the funnel problem, nor in the nebular theory, nor in aught else 

 that I am aware. 



1867.] 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The third and last objection is that gravity cannot cause nebular rotation, 

 and that it cannot therefore be the force which imparted their present motions 

 to the stars. We have already seen that if, on the surface of the nebula which 

 formed our solar system, there had been a movement of rotation only about 

 one-third or one-half a mile per hour, then gravity, acting by the law of con- 

 servation of areas, would have imparted the velocity of 110,000 miles per hour 

 to Mercurj-. But how could this nebula have received a rotation of half a mile 

 per hour? This question is easily answered by following the logical conse- 

 quences of the nebular theory, aided by well known facts in astronomy. The 

 fixed stars have velocities at least equal to the planets. When they were all in 

 a nebulous condition, just broken up from the vast nebulous disk stretching all 

 around within the Milky Way, they must have been irregular iu form, quite 

 near to one another, and endowed with their present rapid velocities. Then, by 

 their mutual perturbations, they must have imparted motions to one anothers' 

 iiTegular exteriors. 



The power of perturbation between the fixed stars is much stronger than has 

 been suspected by astronomers. In " The Origin of the Stars " I have shown 

 that the sun's gravity on Alpha Centauri is now so powerful that that star 

 must move more than 2,000 miles per day at right angles to its present direc- 

 tion from ourselves, to gain a centrifugal force suflScient to avoid falling into 

 the sun. Estimating the masses of the stars from the amounts of their light 

 and their distances, then the power of gravity from Alpha Centauri alone on 

 our sun is so great that our sun must move more than 5300 miles per day to 

 avoid falling into that star ; and for the same reason our sun must fly with a 

 velocity of more than 13,000 miles per day to avoid falling into Sirius. When 

 these stars were in their nebulous conditions, expanded nearly to one another, 

 irregular in shape, and moving past one another with their present astonishing 

 velocities, their mutual power for moving currents on their irregular surfaces 

 must have been very strong. Moreover, they must have had the same liability 

 to fall into one another, and thus to produce rotation as the original stellar 

 nebula?. 



We can also readily conceive how, in the very first formation of the several 

 solar nebulaj, and flying along with inconceivable rapidity, their irregular 

 projections may not have had precisely the same motions as the centre of 

 gravity. From all these causes we can understand how, after the rounding 

 process, a motion of half a mile per hour may have been given to the one re- 

 sultant current on their surfaces. 



But whence the proper motions of the fixed stars? or rather, whence the 

 proper motions of the nebuhe from which the fixed stars were formed? The 

 nebular theory gives the same cause for the forms and the motions of the 

 stellar systems as of our solar system. That theory points to a great original 

 nebula, whose rotations by the force of gravity formed and moved the ring of 

 the Milky Way, and its interior disk, and its scattered exterior clusters. 

 Gravity, in causing this rotation and the proper motions of the fixed stars, 

 must have acted by the law of conservation of areas ; and now we must in- 

 quire how much motion, according to that law, was necessary on the surface 

 of our original stellar nebula? If half a mile per hour was sufficient for our 

 solar system, how much was necessary for our stellar system ? On the suppo- 

 sition that the stellar motions are as rapid as the planetary, and that the force 

 of gravity was equally strong in both, then the original surface motions of 

 our solar and stellar nebula must have been to each other in some proportion 

 inversely as the lengths of their radii. But as the length of the stellar radius 

 was almost infinitely longer than that of the solar radius, so the original mo- 

 tion on the surface of the stellar nebula must have been almost infinitely 

 slower than on the surface of the solar nebula; that is, almost infinitely slow- 

 er than half a mile per hour 1 



But whence these very slow motions on the surfaces of the original stellar 

 nebuhe ? These I have already given in the four sources of motion in the be- 

 ginning of this paper. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 93 



In our solar nebula the areas described by the radius vector diminished 

 very slowly, on account of the very slight friction, which also retarded the 

 velocities of the planets, as I have shown in Section 19th. 



August 6th. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr., called the attention of the Academy for a few minutes 

 to some observations on the life history of some of our siphonaceous fresh 

 water algte. 



He stated that the accounts of the method of the production of the zoospores 

 of the ordinary Achyla prolifera, as given hy Henfrey and Carpenter, differed 

 very essentially. The former states that the zoospores do not directly appear 

 in the filaments, but that in the original zoosporangium are formed only daugh- 

 ter cells by the aggregation of nitrogenous protoplasm, which daugliter cells 

 are incapable of spontaneous motion, are unprovicled with cilia, and are emitted 

 apparently by being, as it were, forced out by endosmotic pressure excited 

 through the zoosporangium. After emission, according to Henfrey, they re- 

 main clustered at the end of the filament, and in a few hours each daughter 

 cell gives origin to a single zoospore, which is formed from the whole of its 

 protoplasmic contents. According to Carpenter, the zoospores are formed di- 

 rectly in the zoosporangium, are then furnished with cilia, and escape by means 

 of their own motile power. Dr. Wood stated that his own observations on the 

 plant entirely corroborate and coincide with the results arrived at by the la- 

 mented Henfrey, and that he had frequently seen the very delicate cellulose 

 coats of the daughter cells still aggregated around the distal end of the zoospo- 

 rangium after the escape of the zoospores from them. Dr. Wood furtlier called 

 the attention of the membei'S to the existence of several algoid forms growing 

 in the neighborhood of the city, which were closely allied to Achlya prolifera, 

 but in some respects quite distinct from it. In one of these, which appears to 

 be at least generically the same as the former species, the Doctor stated he had 

 studied the formation oi resting spores, which takes place in a way similar to 

 that seen in other of the Siphonaceaj, such as the Vaucheria. At the distal 

 end of a filament about to form resting spores a roundish bulb-like enlarge- 

 ment takes place, which soon is crowded with nitrogenous protoplasm derived 

 from the main filament, from which it is in a little while shut off by a delicate 

 membranous partition. About this time, just below such sporangium, there 

 appears a process verj^ similar to that seen in the Vaucheria, which process fi- 

 nally comes in contact with the sporangium, between which and itself a com- 

 munication is soon established. The contents of the sporange now contract 

 themselves into a globular ball, and develop into the resting spore. 



If these views and observations hereafter should be confirmed, they would 

 settle the doubt expressed by many authorities, whether the Achyla be not 

 merely a submerged fungus, altered by this very submersion so as to resemble 

 an algoid growth ; for if species of the genus are found whose whole life his- 

 torj- is similar to that of others of the Siphonace?e, even to the formation of 

 resting spores by a kind of conjugation, it seems indisputable that the organ- 

 isms under consideration are perfect entities, not merely degraded forms of 

 higher plants. Further, granting the facts stated, if one of the Siphonacere is 

 a fungoid growth, surely all the others must be ; and it does not seem proba- 

 ble that the Vaucheria, with its green endochrome, is a fungoid growth. 



Dr. Leidy mentioned the recent appearance of the seventeen year 

 locust in Montgomery, Wythe and other counties of Virginia. 



1867.] 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



August loth. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Nineteen members present. 

 The followinfr was presented for publication : 



"Additional Notes on male forms of Yitis vinifera." By T. Meehan. 

 By permission, the Committee reported in favor of publishing the 

 followiDg paper, which was so ordered : 



Notes on certain EIEDS from New Granada, with descriptions of New 



Species. 



BY GEO. N. LAWRENCE. 



TaCHYPHOXCS PROPIXQUrS. 



Tachyphomis rubrifrons, Lawr., Proc. Acad. Sci. Phil. 1865, p. 106. 



In a conversation with Mr. McLeannan concerning the red on the forehead 

 of the male in this species, he said the sexes were alike in plumage, and sug- 

 gested that the color might be a stain caused by its feeding on some kind of 

 fruit ; on examination with a glass, it is quite apparent that the color is due to 

 such a cause, — the pulp, probably of some kind of fruit, still adhering to the 

 feathers. 



The first name, therefore, being inappropriate, I propose in place of it that of 

 2)ropinquus, from its near relationship to T. xanthopygius. 



2. Ph^nicothraupis tinacea. 



Male. — Crest scarlet, distinctly bordered on each side with a line of blackish 

 feathers : the entire upper plumage besides, including the tail, is of a dark 

 vinaceous red ; the quills have their inner webs blackish-brown, the outer are 

 the color of the back, but brighter, as are also the outer margins of the rec- 

 trices ; the under plumage is likewise dark vinaceous, but lighter than the 

 back, with the throat clearer in color, but not so decidedly as in all the other 

 allied species, except P. rubica, in which the entire under plumage is quite 

 dull ; the upper mandible is black, the under brown ; tarsi and toes reddish- 

 brown. 



Length about 6f in. ; wing 3| ; tail 3| ; bill 9-16ths ; tarsi }. 



Habitat. — New Granada, line of the Panama Railroad. 



Remarks. — I have had this specimen for some years, and considered it dif- 

 ferent from any of its affines ; in its upper plumage it comes nearest to P. ru- 

 bica, but the color is deeper and clearer, the sides of the head are not dusky as 

 in that species, in the coloring below they are not at all alike, rubica being of 

 a dull brownish-red, with but little brightness even on the throat, whereas the 

 other is of quite a clear color throughout ; rubra, rubicoides and fuscicauda have 

 their throats much lighter and brighter in color : it is smaller than any of the 

 others except rubra, from which it scarcely differs in size ; they are also much 

 alike in their upper plumage, but rubra has the rump and tail brighter, and 

 below is much paler in color, being the most so of any of the group. Its deep 

 and nearly uniform color will distinguish it from all the others. 



In an article by Mr. Salvin (Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1867), " On some 

 Collections of Birds from Teragua," he refers a bird to P. rubica with a ques- 

 tion, of which he has several specimens : from his remarks I should judge it to 

 be the same as the above described species. 



3. Leptoptila cassisii. 



Leptoptila verreauxi, Cass., Proc. Acad. Sci. Phil. 1860, p. 195. 

 Leptoptila verreauxi, Lawr., Annals Lye. N. Y. vol. vii. p. 333. 

 31ale. — Forward part of the crown and front bluish-white, paler next the 

 bill ; hind part of crown and nape, back, wings and central tail feathers, of a 



[August, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 95 



dark greenish olive-brown, washed on tlie upper part of the back with vina- 

 ceous ; the hiteral tail feathers are purplish-black, the outer two on each side 

 marked with grayish-white at their ends; quills dark brown, tinged with pur- 

 ple, the inner margins for two-thirds their length from the base pale dull cin- 

 namon ; lining of wings and axillars deep cinnamon ; a band on the hind neck, 

 of bluish ash, connecting with the same color on the breast ; the lower part 

 and sides of the neck are of a paler bluish-ash; chin and throat white; the 

 sides are dark olive-brown ; upper part of abdomen of a pale vinaceous, the 

 lower part nearly white, just tinged with the color of the upper part ; feathers 

 over the thighs filamentous, and of a grajdsh-white color, as are also those of 

 the vent : under tail coverts brown, with their ends white ; bill black ; 

 " irides yellow ;" tarsi and toes fleshy yellow. 



Length (fresh) lOf in. ; wing 5\ ; tail 3f ; bill | ; tarsi 1 3-lGths. 



The female does not differ materially from the male. 



Habitat. — Xew Granada. Line of the Panama Railroad. 



Remarks. — This species was referred to L. verreauxi by Mr. Cassin, in his 

 " Catalogue of Birds from the Isthmus of Darien," and by myself in " Catalogue 

 of Birds from New Granada," &c. Since then I received from Mr. McLeannan 

 a specimen of another species, which I determined to be the true L. verreauxi, 

 Bp. ; on a recent visit to Boston I was able to verify it as being so, by com- 

 parison with that species in the Lafresnaye collection, now the property of the 

 Boston Natural History Society, the liberal gift of the late Dr. Henry Bryant. 



L. verreauxi IS above of a lighter and more decided olive, the outer three tail 

 feathers on each side end more largely in white, the under plumage is much 

 lighter and very different in color, the neck and upper part of the breast being 

 of a light vinaceous rose color, gradually merging into white on the abdomen ; 

 the under tail coverts are entirely white. 



The two species are very different in appearance, that of cassinii being very 

 dark, whereas the colors of verreauxi are comparatively light. 



I have conferred the name of my friend Mr. John Cassin on this fine species. 



Li the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution are specimens from Costa Rica, 

 as well as those from the Atrato in Lt. Michler's collection. 



Mr. John Galbraith, in his notes sent with the collection made for me on the 

 line of the Panama Railroad, states that it is " common, but shy." 



August 20th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. , 



Nineteen members present. 



August 21th. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice President, in the Chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 



Dr. J. K. Tyson, Dr. W. Pepper, Dr. Geo. Pepper, Dr. Horace 

 Binney Hare and Elias D. Kennedy. 



The following were elected correspondents: 



Geo. J. Durham, Austin, Texas; John Henry Gurney, Norfolk, Eng.; 

 Osbert Salvin, London ; T. C Jerdon, M. D., Madras, India ; and Prof. 

 J. Reinhardt, Copenhagen. 



Prof. Cope communicated by letter the following description of a 

 new genus of Cyprinoid fishes from Virginia : 



Among the Cyprinid.ne of the Kanawha River, at Eggleston's Springs, one 

 appeared to be of sufficient interest to mention to the Academy. I took but 



1867.] 




96 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



two specimens, supposing tbem to be the young of some species of Catostomus 

 or sucker. The size of the scales sliows that it does not pertain to any species 

 known in this region, and I was, therefore, induced to examine the pharyn- 

 geal teeth and alimentary canal. I found, to my surjirise, that they were both 

 of the carnivorous type, showing the form and position of the mouth to be de- 

 ceptive, though they are frequently coordinated parts. The genus and species 

 appearing to have hitherto escaped observation. 



PHEXACOBirs Cope. Pharyngeal teeth 4 — 4, uncinate raptatory, sharp edged ; 

 alimentary canai not longer than head and body ; dorsal fin above the ventrals ; 

 scales normal, lateral line complete ; mouth very small, inferior, maxillary 

 arch projectile, covered by a thick fleshy lip, which is enlarged posteriorly 

 and behind mandible ; no barbels ; mandible naked, included. Aspect of Ca- 

 tostomus. Name from $6m^, deceptive, and /3/of, life. 



Phenacobius teretulus Cope, sp. nov. 



Head stout, 4f times in total length, exclusive of caudal fin, equal depth at 

 dorsal fin ; orbit 3-5 in length of former, its superior rim on frontal plane. Pre- 

 orbital bone elongate parallelogrammic. Muzzle elongate, decurved obtuse, 

 heavy. Canthus of mouth opposite middle of o. pr^eorbitale ; supra-opercular 

 region rounded ; isthmus wide ; form moderate, caudal peduncle not attenu- 

 ated. Scales with coarse concentric lines and radii ; 6 — 43 — 5 ; thoracic 

 region scaled. Pectoral fin not reaching ventrals, nor ventrals the anal. 

 Dorsal narrow, elevated ; caudal deeply forked ; radii D. 1. 8 : C.-|-184- : A. 7 : 

 V. 1. 8 : P. 17. Total length of specimen 3 in. 6-5 1. Above pale olive yel- 

 low, the scales faintly edged with black ; below silvery ; end of muzzle and 

 band on each side to orbit blackish ; a leaden band on each side on middle 

 line from behind ventrals to base of caudal, which is occasionally broken into 

 spots. 



The affinities of this fish appear to be to Ceratichthys ; its habits and food 

 are probably similar; as in that genus the natatory bladder is largely devel- 

 oped. Its habitat appears to be in the rapid parts of the river ; I have not 

 seen it in the tributarj- creeks, though I have examined them carefully. Sev- 

 eral specimens procured. 



A second species of this genus exists in the upper waters of the Holston 

 River, (Va.,) which is more elongate than the P. teretulus, has smaller 

 scales, and a more vertical range of vision. The thick projectile lips are 

 slightly tuberculous : the orifice of the mouth very small, and the inner edge 

 of the nari'ow mandible a cartilaginous ridge. Its habit is to lie on the bottom 

 in the main channels of the river, as the form of its mouth would indicate, 

 while the digestive system indicates carnivorous diet. The species does not 

 occur commonly in the smaller creeks. It may be characterized as follows, 

 under the name : 



Phenacobius u r a n o p s. 



Isthmus very wide ; teeth 4 — 4. Head subcylindric ; muzzle broad, pro- 

 jecting; orbits oval, having some vertical range, 3-5 times in length head, 

 equal frontal width. Head 4-75 in length to origin caudal, 5'66 to end of 

 same. Depth of dorsal in same respectively 6-25 and 7*25 times. Lateral 



line straight ; scales eo, those on the line of and anterior to the ventrals 



minute; lower surface from ventrals forward, naked. Pectorals extending 

 § way to ventrals. R. 15; ventrals to vent, R. 8; anal narrow, short, 7. 

 Caudal deeply emarginate, its peduncle narrowed; R. 20; dorsal much larger 

 than anal ; I- 8 ; anterior margin longer than depth of body : equal pectorals. 



in. lin. 



Total length 3 7-5 



Depth at occiput , 4-5 



" " dorsal 6- 



" " caudal peduncle (least) 2-75 



[August, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



Coloration above light olive, with a metallic dorsal line visible only in life ; 

 below white. A lateral silver band well defined above only, where it is tinged 

 with leaden. The latter becomes darker on the candal peduncle. Muzzle 

 and streak through eye and operculum, blackish. Lips yellowish. 



From Holstou River, near Saltville Ya. 



September 3(?. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty members present. 



Septemher \{ith. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Twenty-five members present. 



The following was presented for publication : 



" Description of a new species of Owl of the Genus Scops." By D. 

 G. Elliot. 



Dr. Leidy exhibited the fossil skull of a Glopher (Geomys bursarius), 

 from the loess or yellow marl deposits along the Missouri. The speci- 

 men was sent for examination by Dr. Hayden, from Plattemouth, Ne- 

 braska. The skull is partly embedded in a hard argillaceous substance 

 and appears completely petrified. According to Dr. Hayden, in the 

 same formation, teeth of Mastodon and Elephant were found. 



Dr. Bridges on behalf of the publication commmittee, announced 

 that Vol. 6, Part 2 of the Journal was ready for distribution. 



Septemher \lth. 



Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirteen members present. 



The following was presented for publication : 



" A study of the Rhamphastidae or Toucans." By John Cassin. 



Dr. Leidy submitted, for examination, an antique hammer of native copper, 

 found ia the Bohemian mine, Michigan, loaned for the purpose by Mr. W. H. 

 Boyer through Mr. W. L. Mactier. It is of rude construction, apparently not 

 cast, but partially cut and partially beaten into shape, which is that of an ob- 

 long square with irregularly pitted surfaces. It is about 3| in. long, 1| broad, 

 and l\ wide, and weighs 1 lb. 14 oz. It has an irregular square hole through 

 the centre of the lesser thickness, about large enough to insert the end of the 

 thumb. The sides of the hole are very irregular. The square ends of the 

 hammer are nearly level, though slightly rounded from use. 



Dr. Leidy also exhibited a skull of the Castoroides Ohioensis, which had been 

 recently sent him for examination by Prof. A. H. Worthen, State Geologist, of 

 Springfield, Illinois. The specimen was found in ploughing, near Charleston, 

 Coles county, Illinois. It is nearly perfect, with the exception of the loss of 

 the zygomata and incisor teeth, and is remarkably well preserved, considering 

 the position in which it was found. The worn condition of the teeth appar- 

 ently indicates an older individual than the skull from northern New York, de- 

 scribed by Prof. Wyman, though the suture between the basi-occipital and 



1867.] 7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



basi-sphenoid yet remains open, while it appears to be closed in the New York 

 skull. The specimen is about the same size as the latter, its length being 

 10^ inches. In addition to the two localities indicated, the remains of this 

 most gigantic of all rodents, recent and extinct, have been found in New York, 

 Ohio, South Carolina, Tennessee, Mississippi and Louisiana. 



September 2\th. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



Chas. H. Thomas, M. D., and A. G. Hincle, M. D., were elected 

 members, and Rev. Alphonso Wood, Brooklyn, N. Y., was elected a 

 corre.''pondent. 



On favorable report of the respective committees, the following were 

 ordered to be published : 



Additional Note on Dioicous forms of VITIS VINIFERA, L. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



On page 42 of the Proceedings of the Academy, I offered a few obserrationg 

 tending to show that the idea of De Candolle (since adopted by others), that 

 Dioicousism was a peculiar attribute of the American species of Vitis and 

 Hermaphroditism of the European was an error, and one which, as it had been 

 adopted as a fact to divide the genus, ought to be corrected : and further, I 

 suggested that the seedless grapes of Europe (cun-ants) were probably pistil- 

 late forms. This has produced two letters from Dr. George Engelman, of so 

 much interest that, with his knowledge, I make the following extracts : 



" It is a well known fact that Vitis vinifera, when running wild, as it occurs 

 in different localities on the banks of the Rhine, becomes polygamous ; and I 

 have specimens of male plants in vaj herbarium. The berries are small, acerb, 

 and dark bluish-l)lack. 



The same, I have learnt from Prof. Parlatore, of Florence, grows in the 

 swampy region near Leghorn, and is as large a plant there as our largest V. 

 cordifolia [or viparia), — a hundred feet high, and (stem) six or eight inches in 

 diameter, — and is there yet called " Labrusca '" hj the natives, — the ancient 

 name used also by Virgil and Pliny, showing the same plant to be wild (native 

 or naturalized?) at their time. This is also said by Prof. Parlatore to be dioi- 

 cous, or rather polygamous. 



The number of seeds does not depend on the fertility of the plant, but on the 

 size of the berrj- ; thus our small berries, V. cordifolia {yiparia), bear usually 

 one or two seeds, rarely (if ever) more. 



The question with me is whether the plant is ever properly dioicoi^s ? I have 

 never found female plants. All that I could examine were either male or 

 hermaphrodite, though the hermaphrodite may not be absolutely jyer/ec^, — that 

 is, though the pollen is perfect, it may requirethe pollen of another (male or 

 hermaphrodite) plant to fertilize it. 



Has any one seen purely female plants ? 



Your hypothesis of the seedless currants I cannot share. If not impregnated, 

 the fruit will come to nothing ; but there are seedless varieties of different 

 plants you know." 



In another letter, in reply to some suggestions of mine, Dr. Engelman adds : 

 " I was too hasty in saying that a non-fertilized fruit would not ripen. Those 

 with a fleshy calyx (epigynous) often do, without producing seeds; but of 

 grapes I would doubt it. And, Twor^-oi^er, I do not know — and would like botan- 

 ists to look to it — whether /e7«aZe flowers are found in Vitis! I And only com- 

 plete, or male plants, — have never seen a purely female. If no one has, will 

 they look out next season ?" 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



These extracts confirm my views in reference to the existence of imperfect 

 forms of Vitis vinifera, and they open up an interesting inquiry as to the cause 

 of seedless raisins. One of our fellow members suggests that my hypothesis 

 that they are pistillate forms, imperfectly developed through lack of fertiliza- 

 tion, is unlikely, because, with so many vineyards of perfect grapes, at times 

 some of these would get fertilized from stray pollen, and thus we should occa- 

 sionally find seeds in dried corinths, which we do not. But old writers on the 

 corinth say that berries with seeds are found at times amongst the others, in 

 which case they are double the size (see Prince's Treatise on the Vine, pages 

 97, 98, copied probably from Duhamel). They are perhaps rejected when the 

 currants are being prepared. 



However, the object of my note was to refer to the fact of the existence of 

 male plants ; and the hypothesis in reference to the seedless grapes was intro- 

 duced rather to stimulate inquiry as to what the facts really are in relation to 

 their real nature and organization. 



Description of an apparently new species of OWL, of the Genus SCOPS. 

 BY D. G. ELLIOT, F. L. S., F. Z. S., ETC. 



Scops Kexxicottii. 



Head and upper parts light rufous -brown, each feather having a central 

 streak of brownish-black, and also barred with the same color. The rufous- 

 brown hue lightest on the lower part of the neck, where it is almost a buff. 

 The outer feathers of the interscapulars have the outer webs light butt", forming 

 a distinct bar. Wings same color as the back, but the central streak broader. 

 Primaries dark brown, outer webs marked with distinct spots of light buff, 

 slightly discernible on the inner. Secondaries blackish-brown, outer webs 

 distinctly spotted with dark buff. Tertials mottled with light buff and black. 

 Ear tufts light buff, with a central streak of black, and barred with the same ; 

 broadest on the outer webs. Feathers around the eye reddish-brown ; those 

 covering the nostrils soiled white, with black shafts. Concealed patches of 

 white feathers equidistant between the ear-tufts and the ears. Upper part of 

 breast light buff; several feathers on each side having very broad central 

 streaks of black, forming together a conspicuous spot ; the rest have this mark 

 much narrower, and the black bars either nearly obsolete, or mere wavy lines. 

 Feathers of the flanks light buff, with a broad line of black in the middle, and 

 a conspicuous bar of pale yellowish-white near their tips. Centre of abdomen 

 and under tail coverts yellowish-white, a few indistinct brown bars on the 

 latter. Feathers of tarsi reddish-brown ; of feet yellowish-white. Bill black, 

 white at tip. Claws chestnut at base, rest black. 



Total length 11 inches; wing 7] in., tail 4 in., bill |^ in. along the curve, 

 claws ^ in. 



Ilal)'— Sitka. 



The general hue of this curious little owl is a reddish-brown, mottled and 

 blotched with black. In size it is between the Scops Asio and Olus Wihonianus, 

 and is not unlike what a cross between these species might be supposed to re- 

 semble. It, however, bears very distinctive characters, which free it from any 

 such suspicion, among whicli, and not the least, is the curious concealed tuft 

 of white feathers just above the ears. 



The specimen was procured at Sitka by the expedition engaged in laying the 

 telegraph whicli is to connect the two great continents of America and Asia, 

 and is one of the most interesting additions which the indefatigable natural- 

 ists attached to this band of zealous workers have made to the Avi fauna of 

 North America. 



The example from which my description is taken is unique, and belongs to 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Chicago, by the kindness of whose officers 



1867.] 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



I am enabled to bring this bird to the notice of ornithologists ; and in my large 

 work on the Birds of North America, now publishing, I propose to give a life- 

 size portrait of this species. 



In bestowing on this owl the name which I trust it is ever destined to bear, 

 I simply express the desire which I am sure is felt by all ornithologists, to 

 render honor to him who, combining the intrepidity of the explorer with the 

 enthusiasm of the naturalist, twice penetrated the forbidding, cheerless districts 

 of the far north, in order to extend the knowledge of his favorite science ; and 

 who perished in his early manhood, in the full tide of his usefulness, on the 

 banks of the Yukon. 



Ornithology has met no greater loss, in these later days, than in the death of 

 Robert Kennicott. 



A Study of the EAMPHASTIDJS. 

 BY JOHN CASSIN. 



Having been frequently interested, as well as greatly perplexed with the 

 singularly nearly allied forms in this group, and having recently undertaken 

 to study and label the large collections of the Philadelphia Academy and of 

 the Smithsonian Institution, my memoranda have been readily expanded into 

 this memoir. The collection of the Smithsonian Institution is mainly from 

 Mexico and Central America, and contains numerous specimens of species pre- 

 viously known only as exceedingly rare and valuable. The collection of the 

 Philadelphia Academy is quite extensive, and comprehensive also, containing 

 about five-sixths of all known species, nearly the whole of which were pre- 

 sented by its most munificent and judicious patrons. Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, 

 and Edward Wilson, Esq. 



In this group, species do certainly exist which are very nearly related to 

 each other, but I am not without a suspicion that the number has been un- 

 necessarily increased, and that several so-called species should be regarded as 

 varieties only, and in a few instances I doubt whether even that distinction is 

 clearly tenable or permanent. In all cases, however, I give the species as I 

 find them described. The splendid Monograph of this group by Mr. Gould 

 renders the study of these birds comparatively easj- ; and, in very nearly all 

 species, the figures are of the very first class in accuracy and faithfulness of 

 representation. 



I. Genus RAMPHASTOS, Linnaeus. 

 Genus Ramphastos, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 103 (1T58). 



Ramphastos, Aldrovandus, Orn. i. p. 801 (1599). 

 Ramphestes, Gesner, Icon. Av. p. 130 (1560). 

 1. Ramphastos. 



1. Ramphastos Toco, Miiller, 



Ramphastos Toco, MiilL, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 80 (17T6). 

 Ramphastos Toco, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 356 (1788). 

 Ramphastos maguirostris. Swains., Cab. Cy. ii. p. 299 (1837). 

 Ramphastos niveus. Less., Supp. Oeuv. Bulf. 

 Ramphastos picatus, Linn., Svst. Nat. i. p. 103 (1758) ? 

 XeVaill. Ois. Par. pi. 2. Buff. PI. Enl. 82. Gould, Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 



6, 2d ed. pL 1. 

 This large and well known species is regarded as the type of the genus Ram- 

 phastos by all modern authors, but as a matter of after as well as antecedent 

 consideration, and especially for strict constructionists (of which I am one), it 

 is worth remembering that, although the genus was established by Linna?us (or 

 his editor Jussieu) as early as the fourth edition of Syst. Nat., in 1744, this 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 101 



species seems to have been then quite unknown to him. In the tenth edition 

 (1758), the first species mentioned is R. piperivorus, which is now included in 

 the genus Pteroglossus ; and in the twelftli edition (1766), the first species 

 mentioned is R. viridis, also a Pteroglossus. This bird does not appear to have 

 ever come under his notice, unless it is R. picatus of the tenth edition. The 

 fourth edition of Syst. Nat., in which this name first occurs, was published in 

 Paris, and edited by B. Jussieu (in 1744). The next edition by Linnteus him- 

 self is the sixth, in 1748, and this name is given with the orthography as at 

 present, — Ramphaslos (6th edition Syst. Nat., p. 19, 1748), and as given by 

 Aldrovandus in 1599. 



This bird is, however, properly enough regarded as the type of its genus, the 

 name having been first applied to it, and it having been probably the very first 

 species known to naturalists. The bill is described and figured by Belon in 

 1555. It is more fully described and figured by Conrad Gesner in 1560 (Icones 

 Avium Omnium, p. 130), and the present generic name first occurs on the same 

 page : " Burhynchus aut Ramphestes appellari poterit." Aldrovandus puts it 

 into its present shape: Ramphastos^ Aldr. Orn. i. p. 801 (1599), and figures 

 quite intelligibly this same species (p. 802), perhaps copying from Gesner, but 

 much enlarging the figure. It was evidently amongst the earliest birds sent 

 to Europe after the discovery of America, and was known by the name of Ram- 

 phastos at least a century and a half before the time of Linnaeus, and is in all 

 characters a typical and representative species of its genus. 



Large, bill very large ; rich orange, with a large oval spot of black at the tip of the upper 

 mandible, and a transverse band of black at the bases of both mandibles. Throat white, 

 tinged with pale yellow, and in its lower part this white space is generally, but not always 

 edged and tinged with red. (In the next species, R. alboi/ularis. the white of the throat is 

 pure, and not tinged with yellow nor edged with red.'i This red color frequently wanting 

 in the female, and occasionally in the male, but the yellow tinge is very nearly always 

 presents 



Upper tail coverts white, under tail coverts scarlet. All other parts of the plumage 

 black, frequently tinged with brown on the head. Legs greenish or blnish-blaek. 



Total length about 22 to 24 inches; wing 10, tail GJ/^ to 7, bill (chord from angle of mouth 

 to point of upper mandible) 6% to S% inches. Female rather smaller; total length about 

 20 inches. 



Hab. — Northern and central South America, Guiana, Para, Rio Orinoco, Bolivia (Mr. W. 

 Evans), Paraguay (Capt. T. J. Page), Rio La Plata (Dr. W. S. W. Rusehenberger, U. S. N.), 

 " Chiquitos, Bolivia " (label on D'Orbigny's specimen in Mus. Acad.) Spec, in Mus. Acad. 

 Philada. and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



This fine species seems to have a wide range of locality in South America, 

 undoubted specimens being in the Acad. Mus. from Para, iu north-eastern 

 Brazil, and from the Rio La Plata. It is also in the Mus. Smiths., in a very 

 interesting collection from Bolivia presented by Mr. W. Evans, and iu the col- 

 lection made during the exploration and survey of the Rio La Plata and Rio 

 Parana, by Capt. T. J. Page, late of the U. S. Navy. Specimens from the Rio 

 La Plata in the Acad. Mus. were collected and presented by its distinguished 

 and ever faithful member. Dr. W. S. W. Rusehenberger, of the U. 8. Navy, 

 and the locality is undoubtedly authentic. 



The larger size, especially of the bill, yellow tinge of the white space on the 

 throat aud red edgings in the lower part of the same white space, distinguish 

 this species from the ne.xt succeeding, — R. albogularis. The yellow tinge is 

 present in all specimens that I have seen, though frequently very slight ; but 

 in some females the red edgings are wanting entirely. 



This species is verj^ probably Ramphastos picatus, Linn., Syst. Nat., 10th 

 edition (1758), but he cites as a synonyme Albin, Av. ii. \A. 25, which is appa- 

 rently a fictitious species, like a Pteroglossus. The description applies to the 

 present bird. 



2. Ramphastos albogularis, Cabanis. 



Ramphastos albogularis. Cab., Jour. Orn. 18G2, p. 334. 



Very similar to the preceding, R. Toco, but smaller, and with the white .space on the 

 throat and neck in front pure, and without yellow tinge or red edgings in its lower part. 



1867.] 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Transverse band of black at the base of the bill nan-ow, and spot of black at the tip of up- 

 per mandible much smaller. Colors of plumage as in B. Toco. 



Total length about 19 to 20 inches; wing 8%, tail 6, bill Cchord) 5 inches. 



flat.— Southern Brazil (Cabanis). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



The throat is pure white in this species, if such it is, and the transverse band 

 at the base of the bill seems to be much narrower than in E. Toco. The 

 general size is smaller, and the bill much shorter. Probably only to be dis- 

 tinguished from the female of R. Toco by the presence or absence of the yellow 

 tinge of the white of the throat, always present in M. Toco, always absent in R. 

 albogularis. The red edgings and tinge of the white throat are not reliable as 

 a character, being frequently absent in R. Toco^ but ought to be always so, 

 according to Dr. Cabanis' description, in R. albogularis. I suspect that this 

 bird is the young female of R. Toco, so far as I can judge from one specimen 

 only in the Acad. Mus., without label, stating locality. 



2. Burhynchus. 



3. Ramphastos carixatus, Swainson. 



Ramphastos carinatus. Swains. Zool. 111. i. p. (1821). 



Ramphastos Tucanus, Shaw, Gen. Zool. viii. p. 362 (1811, nee Linn.) 



Ramphastos sulfuratus. Less., Tr. Orn. i. p. 173 (1831). 



Ramphastos callorhynchus, Wagl., Syst. Av. (1827). 



Ramphastos poecilorhynchus, Licht. 



Ramphastos piscivorus, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 151 (1766) ? 

 Edwards, Birds, vii. pi. 329. Swains. Zool. 111. i. pi. 45. Gould, Mon. 

 Raraph. 1st ed. pi. 7, 2d ed. pi. 2. Edwards, Birds, ii. pi. 64? 



This large and very handsome species is well known as a bird of Mexico, 

 and in the United States specimens were first introduced in sufficient numbers 

 to supply all museums by Mr. Rafael Montes D'Oca, who obtained them at 

 Jalapa. ' It stood isolated, and especially characterized by the colors of the 

 bill until a near relative, R. brevicarinatus, was described by Mr. Gould in 

 1854, and in 1862 another near relative, R. approximans, was described by Dr. 

 Cabanis. These species, or supposed species, are very nearly related to each 

 other and although I have before me no less than thirtj--two specimens, cer- 

 tainlv representing all three of them, from the Academy and Smithsonian 

 collections, I acknowledge myself quite perplexed in attempting to distinguish 

 satisfactorily between them. At present, I can regard R. carinatus and R. ap- 

 proximans as differing only in the width of the scarlet band on the lower edge 

 of the yellow space on the throat, and R. approximans and R. brevicarinatus as 

 difl'erino- only in size. There are, however, specimens before me which I can- 

 not clearly refer to either of the three species, though very probably one or the 

 other and I find it quite impossible to ascertain different geographical districts 

 of locality. In fact, so far as can be determined from specimens before me, 

 evidently very carefully labelled, these species inhabit very nearly the same 

 countries and districts. 



Throat yellow. Lower edge of the yellow space of the throat with a very narrow andfrt- 

 qtntly obscure band of scarW separating it from the black of the under parts of the body. 

 Bill green, tipped with red, and a large obovate spot of orange near the base of the upper 

 mandible, and an orange line on the culmen. At base of bill a narrow transverse band of 

 black. 



Upper tail coverts white, under tail coverts scarlet. All other parts of the plumage black, 

 with a strong tinge of reddish-brown on the top of the head and neck behind. Legs bluish- 

 Total length about 22 to 24 inches ; wing 8)4, tail 7, bill (chord) 5}^ to 6 inches. 

 Hah— Mexico. Jalapa (Mr. D'Oca). Mirador, Vera Cruz (Dr. C. Sartorins), Potrero, Cordo- 

 va (Prof. F. Suniifhrast), Vera Paz (Mr. O. Salvin), Coban, Guatemala (Mr. H. Hague), Be- 

 lize, Honduras (Mr. C. J. Wood). Spec, m Mus. Acad. Philada. and BIus. Smiths. Washmg- 

 ton. 



The band of scarlet on the lower edge of the yellow space of the throat is 

 verv narrow in this species, and frequently not to be seen without examination, 

 but in fourteen specimens now under .examination, it is present, and can be 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



traced in all of them. Specimens of this fine species are in the Smiths. Mus. 

 from Mexico and Central America, as above given, and in Acad. Mus. from 

 Mexico. 



4. Ramphastos approximans, Cabanis. 



Ramphastos approximans, Cab., Jour. Orn. 1862, p. 333. 



Like the preceding, but with the scarlet band on the lower edge of the yelUiw space of 

 the throat conspicuous and much wider. About the size of the preceding, bill large. Colors 

 of bill and of plumage as in the preceding, H. carivatiis. " Iris yellow " (Mr. J. Carmiol). 



Total length about 21 to ii inelies. Female smaller; total length about 20 inches. 



Hah. — Costa Rica, Dota, Grecia, Angostura, San Carlos (Mr. J. Carmiol), San Jose (Dr. A. 

 von Frantzuis), Nicaragua, San Juan (Mr. De Bareuili, New Grenada, Panama (Mr. J. Mc- 

 Leannan). Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Washington, and Mus. Acad. Philada. 



About the size of the preceding, and with the bill fully as large. Only to 

 be distinguished from that sjaecies, — R. carinatus, — by the wide and conspicu- 

 ous scarlet band as above described. Thirteen specimens in the Smithsonian 

 collections from Costa Rica, and one specimen from Panama, are clearlj- this 

 species. Others in Acad. Mus., from San Juan de Nicaragua, are also certainly 

 this species, and just as certainly correct in locality. 



Onh' differing in size from the next succeeding, K. brevicarinaiuf!, ^^oili having 

 the wide pectoral band of scarlet. It is possible that the yellow of the throat 

 in R. brevicarinatus is darker, or with a tinge of orange, but at present I could 

 iiistinguish between the female of one and the male of the other, with difhculty, 

 if at all ! 



5. tlAMPHASTOS BREVICARINATUS, Gould. 



Ramphastos brevicarinatus, Gould, Monog. Rampb. p. (2d ed. 1854). 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 3. 



Much resembling the immediately preceding B. approximans, and with the scarlet pec- 

 toral band wide and conspicuous, but much smaller, and with tlie bill shorter. Colors of 

 bill and of plumage as in the two preceding, M. carinatus and Ji.apjjroximans (but probably 

 with the yellow of the throat of a darker shade tlian in either). 



Total length about 10 to 17 inches ; wing 71^, tail G34, bill (chord) 4 inches. 



Sab. — Costa Rica, Cliiriqui (Iir. John Evans), " western side of Isthmus of Panama " (Mr. 

 John Gould), " Mexique " (Massena Coll.) Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philadelphia. 



In one very fine adult specimen of this speies the yellow of the throat is of 

 a darker and richer shade, than in any specimen of either of the two prece- 

 ding species. This specimen came in a very interesting collection presented 

 to the Academy by Dr. John Evans, and collected by him at Chiriqui, East- 

 ern Costa Rica, thereby confusing somewhat the idea of this species being of 

 the western coast, exclusively. The type of Mr. Gould is also in Acad. Mus. 

 but bears no label stating locality. 



6. Ramphastos Tocard, Vieillot. 



Ramphastos Tocard, Vieill. Nouv. Diet, xxxiv. p. 281,(1819). 

 Ramphastos engnathos, Wagl. Syst. Av. Add. (1827). 

 Ramphastos Swainsonii, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1853, p. 69. 

 Gould. Mon. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 4, 1st ed. pi. 8, upper fig. LeVaill, Ois. 

 Far. pi 9 ? 



Colors of the upper mandible divided by a diagonal line from near the nostril to the 

 edge, within the terminal one-third of its length. Upper portion yellow, lower portion 

 dark reddish-chestnut, lower mandible dark reddish-chestnut, terminal one-third, black. 

 Throat yellow, witli a transverse band of white and another of scarlet on its lower edge. 



Upper tail coverts white, lower tail coverts scarlet. All other parts of the plumage 

 black; top of the head and neck behind tinged with reddish-brown ormaron. Legs bluish- 

 brown. Young. Upper mandible entirely greenish-yellow, mottled with black at base. 

 Plumage as in adult. 



Total length about 22 to 24 inches; wing Oi tail Gj to 7, bill (chord) fij inches. 



Hah. — Costa Kira, Ango.stura, San Carlos, Turrialba (Mr. J. Carmiol), New Grenada, Rio 

 Nercua (('apt. N. ^lidiler), " Colmnbie " (Mr. J. Verreaux). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 

 and Mus. Smith. Washington. 



This is the first of three species in which the colors of the upper mandible 

 are separated by an oblong or diagonal line from near the nostril to the edge 

 within its terminal one-third. In this species the bill is large and tumid 



18G7.] 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



and the upper mandible dark red or reddish chestnut on its lower portion, 

 (in H. ambiguus and R. abbreviatus this lower portion is black). Abundance 

 of specimens in Smiths. Mus. from localities in Costa Rica, and also from 

 Western New Granada in Capt. ilichlers Atrato collection. In Acad. Mus. 

 this species is labelled New Grenada and " Columbie." 



7. Eamphastos ambigcus, Swainson. 



Ramphastos ambiguus, Swains. Zool. 111. iii. p. (1823). 

 Gould, Alon. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 5, 1st ed pi. 8, lower fig. Swains. Zool. 111. 

 iii. pi. 168. 



Eesemhling the preceding, i?. Toeard, and with the colors of the upper mandible divided 

 in the same manner, but with the lower portion of the vipper mandible and the lower man- 

 dible black. Colors of plumage as in that species, — E. Toca,rd, — but size rather smaller. 



Total length about 20 to 22 inches. 



Hah. — Northern and western South America, Bogota, Peru (Mr. Gould.) Spec, in Mus. 

 Acad. Philada. and Smiths. Mus. Washington. 



Perhaps rather smaller than the preceding, R. Tocard, but much resembling 

 it, and the two species have been constantly confounded. The present bird 

 can always be identified by its black and yellow upper mandible (brick red 

 or reddish chestnut and yellow in R. Tocard). Specimens in Acad. Mus. are 

 from Bogota and there are very fine specimens also from Bogota in the mag- 

 nificent collection presented to the Smithsonian Institution by the Hon. A. 

 A. Burton, late Minister of the United States to New Grenada. 



8. Ramphastos abbreviatus, Cabanis. 



Ramphastos abbreviatus. Cab. Jour. Orn. 1862, p. 334. 



Resembling R. ambiguus. but smaller, and with the red tinge (or " wash ") on the head 

 and neck behind, and on the black of the breast, much more distinct. Bill with the colors 

 divided as in the two preceding species, upper portion of upper mandible yellow, lower 

 portion and lower mandible black (as in R. ambiguus). Wicle pectoral band of scarlet. 

 Colors of plumage as in R. Tocard and R. ambiguus. 



Total length abont 18 inches ; wing 85, tail 6, bill ii inches. 



Bab. — Venezuela, Caraccas (Mus. Acad.), Porto Cabello (Dr. Cabanis). Spec, in Mus. 

 Acad. Philada. 



Our specimen in the Massena collections now in Mus. Acad, is undoubtedly 

 this species, which, in my opinion, is entirely respectable. It is allied to the 

 two preceding species, but is smaller and has the bill especially smaller and 

 not so wide, in the lateral view. The red tinge on the head and breast is 

 much stronger in this specimen, as stated by Dr. Cabanis in his description of 

 this species as above cited. 



3. Tucanus. 



9. Ramphastos Tccanus, Linnaeus. 



Ramphastos Tucanus, Linn. Syst. nat. i. p. 103, (1758). 



Ramphastos monilis, Miill. Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 83, (1776). 



Ramphastos erythrorhynchus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 355, (1788). 



Ramphastos Le^ Vaillantii, Wagl. Syst. Av. (1827)? 



Ramphastos subfuscatus, Less. 



Ramphastos citreopygus, Gould, Mon. Ramph, 1st ed. pi. 2? 

 Edward's Birds v. pi. 238. Buff. PI. Enl. 262. Le Yaill. Ois. Par. pL 3. 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 3, 2d ed. pi. 6. Shaw, Nat. Misc. vi. pi. 

 183. Le Yaill. Ois. Par. pL 4? Gould, Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. pL 2 ? 



Throat white, faintly tinged with yellow. Bill crimson, culmen and wide transverse 

 band at base yellow. Upper tail coverts yellow, under tail coverts scarlet, a wide pectoral 

 band of scarlet. All other parts of plumage black. Legs bluish-brown. 



Total length about 22 inches ; wing 9 to 10, tail 6 to GJ^, bill (chord) (M to 7 inches. 



Hab. — Northern South America, (juiana, Surinam, Northern Bi-azil. Spec, in Mus. Acad. 

 Philada. and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



This species is undoubtedly the R. Tucanus of Linnaeus, as suggested by 

 that great and philosophical naturalist, Mr. Vigors, in Zool. Jour. ii. p. 471. 

 It is an entirely peculiar and in some respects isolated species, strongly 

 characterized by its red bill. Le Yaillant's figure above cited, Ois. Par. pi. 4, is 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 105 



very probably, this bird, though the pectoral band is given as yellow instead 

 of scarlet. On this figure i?. Le Vaillantii is founded as above. 



lu his first edition Monog Ramph. Mr. Gould describes and figures a bird 

 to which he gives the name R. citreopijgus, as above. Tn his second edition, he 

 states that the specimen figured "is made up of the head of R. viteUinus and 

 body of R. erythrorhynchus." 



10. Ramphastos Inca, Gould. 



Raraphastos Inca, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1846, p. 68. 

 Gould Mon. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 7. 



Resembling the preceding, but with the bill black, culmen yellow, and a large somewhat 

 triangular spot of red on each side of the culmen near the base of the bill. A wide trans- 

 verse band at the base of the bill yellow, with a narrow band of scarlet at its anterior edge. 

 Upper tail coverts rich orange, under tail coverts scarlet, all other parts of plumage black. 



Total length about 20 inches. 



iTaft.— Western South .\merica, Bolivia (Mr. Gould.) 



This species is unknown to me, though one specimen in Acad. Mus. seems 

 to approach it, but the upper tail coverts are not so richly colored as in Jlr. 

 Gould's figure, though more decidedly orange than in R. Tucanm, and the 

 bill being dry and faded long since, does not sliow the peculiar markings of 

 the present bird. The specimen is rather shorter, and the tail especially so, 

 and the bill larger than in the specimens of that species now under exami- 

 nation. The specimen alluded to is No. 650, and is labelled only " Bresil." 



11. Ramphastos Cuvieri, Wagler. 



Ramphastos Cuvieri, "\Yagl. Syst. Av. p. (1827). 

 Ramphastos Forsterorum, Wagl. Syst. Av. p. (1827) ? 

 Gould Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 2, 2d ed. pi. 8. Le Vaill. Ois. Par. pi. 5? 



Bill black. Resembling both of the preceding in colors of plumage, especially R. Tuca- 

 nus, but with the bill black, culmen and wide transverse band at base of bill yellow. Upper 

 tail coverts orange, under tail coverts scarlet, throat white, faintly tinged with yellow, a 

 wide pectoral band of scarlet; all other parts of the plumage black. 



Total length about 22 to 23 inches; wing 9>4, tail 63^, bill (chord) 6>^ to 7 inches. 



i7a6.— Northern South America, Rio Amazo'ns. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. and Mus. 

 Smiths. Washington. 



Distinguished from R. Tucamis by its black bill and orange upper tail 

 coverts and seems to be rather larger. From R Inca this species differs in 

 not having the large spots in the upper mandible nor the scarlet transverse 

 line at the base of the bill. Specimens in Acad. Mus. labelled " Upper Ama- 

 zon " and other very fine specimens in the Smiths. Mus. from Lieut. Hern- 

 don's collections on that river. 



The figure in Le Vaill. Ois. Par. pi. 5, maybe intended to represent this 

 species, but the throat is orange and the upper tail coverts scarlet. Stated to 

 be from Peru. R. Forsterorum, Wagler as above, is founded on this figure. 



12. Ramphastos culminatds, Gould. 



Ramphastos culminatus, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1833, p. 70. 



Gould, Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. i. 2d ed. pi. xi. 



Bill black. Resembling R. Cuvierii, but smaller, with the bill more compressed, and 

 with the throat pure white. Bill black, with the culmen and wide transverse band at base 

 greenish-vellow. Upper tail coverts orange, under tail coverts scarlet, pectoral band nar- 

 rower and darker red than in R. Cuvierii. All other parts of plumage black. Legs bluish- 

 black. 



Total length 19 to 20 inches ; wing 8 to 8^, tail G}4to 7, bill 5 to b}4 inches. 



Safe.— Western South America, Peru? (Hon. J. R.Clay), Upper Amazon (Mr. Gould). Spec, 

 in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



Very much like R. Cuvieri but got up on a smaller scale and clearly 

 distinct. The pure white throat is a peculiar and immediately available 

 character, and the pectoral band is narrow and dark red, quite distinct in 

 shade from that of R. Cuvieri. It is an entirely respectable species. 



The only specimens of this species that I have seen, are in the fine collec- 

 tion made by the Hon. John Randolph Clay, while minister of the United 

 States to Peru, and are very probably from that country. 



1867.] 




106 PROCEEDINGS Of THE ACADEMY OF 



13. Ramphastos citreolaemus, Gould. 



Ramphastos citreolaemus, Gould, Proc. Zool. See. London, 1843, p. 147. 

 Gould, Mod. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 9. Gray, Gen B. ii. pi. 100. 



Like the preceding and R. Cuvierii, but smaller, and with the pale yellow space on the 

 throat nearly encircled with white. Bill black, with the culmen and wide transverse band 

 at base yellowish-green. The j'ellow on the neck in front clearer defined, and of a darker 

 shade than in eitlier of its preceding allies. Upper tail coverts pale yellow. 



A wide pectoral band of scarlet, under tail coverts scarlet, all other parts of the plumage 

 black. Scarlet of the under tail coverts extending upwards, and appearing somewhat in 

 the upper tail coverts (which are yellow). Legs bluish-black. 



Total length about 21 inches ; wing 8J^, tail 7)^, bill 5}4 inches. 



JIab. — Northern South America, Bogota. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



Smaller than R. Cuvieri, but about the size of R. cidminatus. Differs from 

 the former in having the white space on the throat strongly tinged with yellow 

 in its lower part only, and in having the upper tail coverts pale yellow, (in 

 both R. Citvieri and R. culniinatus the upper tail coverts are orange). In R. 

 culminatus the throat is pure white and scarlet, pectoral band narrow; in this 

 species, R. citreolaemus, the white space is strongly tinged with yellow in its 

 lower part and the pectoral band, wide, and of a different shade of scarlet. 



The only specimens that I have seen of this species are Mr. Gould's types 

 in the Acad. Mus., both of which were received in the Massena collection, pre- 

 sented to the Academy by Dr. Thomas B. Wilson. 



14. Ramphastos osculans, Gould. 



Ramphastos osculans. Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1835, p. 156. 

 Gould Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 5, 2d ed. pi. 10. 



Verj' much like the preceding, i?. c!7reo?aem!/,«, but with the upper tail coverts orange, 

 and the neck in front orange. Bill black, culmen and wide transverse band at base yellow- 

 ish-green. Plumage of other parts as in ii!. citreolaemus. 

 Total length about 19 inches. 

 Hah. — Xorthern South America, Guiana, Rio Kegro (Mr. Gould). 



This species I have not seen. Judging from Mr. Gould's description and 

 from his superb figure, it differs from R. citreolaemus sufificientlj', in the 

 orange of the neck in front, and upper tail coverts as above, (both of which 

 are yellow in R. citreolaemus). 



4. Ramphodryas. 



15. Ramphastos Ariel, Vigors. 



Ramphastos Ariel, Vig., Zool. Jour. ii. p. 466, (1826). 

 Ramphastos Temminckii, Wagl., Syst. Av. Ramph. No. 10, (1827). 

 Ramphastos Tucanus, Wagl., Syst. Av. Ramph. No. 11, (1827), nee. 



Linn.) ? 

 Ramphastos erythrosoma, Wagl., Syst. Av. Ramph. No. 9, (1827)? 

 Ramphastos ma.ximus, Cuv Reg. An. i, p. 431, (1817)? 

 Ramphastos eavicollis, Miill. Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 83, (1776)? 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 10, 2d ed. pL 12. Buff. PL Enl. 307? Le 

 Yaill. Ois. Par. pi. 6 ? Zool. Jour. ii. pi. 15. 



Smaller. Bill black, with a wide transverse band of yellow at base, flattened somewhat, 

 and with a wide groove near the culmen. Upper tail-coverts scarlet. Throat orange, with 

 a narrow band of pale yellow on its lower edge, which is succeeded by a wide band of scar- 

 let on the breast. Under tail coverts scarlet. All other parts of the plumage black. Legs 

 bluish-black. Throat in some specimens reddish-orange. 



Total length about 18 to 21 inches ; wing 7 to 8, tail dy^ to 8, bill (chord) 4 to 5 inches. 



i/ab.— Northern and eastern South America, Bahia, St. Catherines, San Paulo. Spec, in 

 Mus. Acad. Philada. and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



This is the first of several species in which the upper tail coverts are 

 scarlet. In this species the bill is uniformly clear black, including the cul- 

 men, and having only a transverse band, at base, of yellowish white. So far 

 as can be determined from dried specimens the bill in this species is more 

 flattened than usual in this group and with a wide but shallow groove, leav- 

 ing the culmen very distinct. 

 The specimens before me from various localities and all of which I regard 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



as one species, would make about three, with some stretch of propriety. One 

 specimen from St. Catherines, Brazil, is larger than all others : total length 

 21 inches, wing 8^, tail 7 J inches, but the bill is shorter than others; length 

 (chord) 4| inches. Two other specimens labelled only " Bresil," have the 

 throat dark reddish orange, (or orange red) much darker red than usual in 

 specimens from Bahia. The largest seems to be that figured and described 

 by Mr. Gould. 



It is not to be concluded hastily that the species proposed by Wagler as above 

 are all to go for nothing. Two of them, Ji. Tucanus and R. erythrosoma, seem 

 to be founded on figures, and, if said figures are correct, they are valid 

 species. These figures may represent R. Ariel with some exaggerations and 

 oversights. Wagler's species are : 



1. Ramphastos Temminckii, which is R. Ariel as above given. 



2. Ramphastos enjthrosoma, founded on Le Vaill. pi. 6, which is much like 

 R. Ariel, but has the under parts almost entirely scarlet. 



3. Ramphastos Tucanus, (Wagl. nee. Linn.) R. flavicollis, Miiller, founded on 

 PI. Enl. 307, in which the upper tail coverts are orange, (not scarlet, as in 

 R. Ariel) and the pectoral band narroiv (it is very wide in R. Ariel.) 



The following are varieties in the collections now under examination : 

 R. Ariel, a. Throat pale orange. Eastern Brazil, Bahia. 



b. Throat deep reddish orange, bill longer. Northern, Amazon 



River. 



c. Large, bill shorter, throat pale orange. Southern, St. Cather- 



ines, Rio de Janeiro. 



16. Ramphastos vitellinus, Temminck. 



Ramphastos vitellinus, Temm., Man. D'Orn. i. p. 76, (1820.) 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 9, 2d ed. pi. 13. Le Vaill. Ois. Par. pi. 7. 

 Swains , Zool. 111. i. pi. 56. 



Bill black, upper tail coverts scarlet, large space on the throat orange in the middle and 

 lower part, fading into pure white on its edges, throat, and sides of the neck. Wide pecto- 

 ral baud and under tail coverts scarlet. All other parts of the plumage black, legs bluish- 

 black. Bill black, with a transverse baud of pale blue at base, flattened and grooved near 

 the eulmen. 



Total lengtli aliout 10 to 20 inches ; wing 71^ to 8, tail G^^ to 7, bill 43^ to 5 inches. 



Hab. — Nortlieni South America, Guiana, Cayenne, Nortliern Brazil. Spec, in Mus. Acad. 

 Philadn. and Mus. .Smiths. Washington. 



In all American collections, and not difficult to distinguish from any other 

 species. The bill is entirely black, including the eulmen, but having a wide 

 transverse band of pale blue at base. 



5. Tucaius. 



17. Ramphastos dicolorus, Linnaeus. 



Ramphastos dicolorus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 152, (1766). 

 Ramphastos chlororhynchus, Temm. Man. d'Orn, i. p. 76, (1820). 

 Ramphastos pectoralis, Shaw, Gen. Zoo", viii. p. 365, (1811). 

 Ramphastos Tucai, Licht. Verz. p. 7, (1823). 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 269. Le Vaill. Ois. Par pi. 8. Swains. Zool. 111. ii. pi. 108. 

 Jard. ifeSelby, 111. i. pi. 29. Gould Mon. Ramph. isted. pi. xi. 2d ed. xiv. 



Bill green, with a transverse band of black at base. Entire under parts of body scarlet, 

 with a'transverse banc! of blaek on the abdomen ; tibiro Vihick. Uppor and under tail cov- 

 erts scarlet. Large simcr i,\\ tli.' throat, orange in the middle and lading into pale yellow 

 on its edges, throat, ami -i'|. > Mfthe neck. All other parts of the plumage black. Legs 

 brownish-black. Bill H.-iti.-mil ,iml grooved near the eulmen. 

 Total length about 17 to jn iii.l,,s ; wing 1)4 to 8, tail r,i to 7, bill 3i to 4 inches. 

 Hah. — Centr.al and fii-t.in South AnnTica, Brazil. St. Catherines, Rio de Janeiro, San 

 Paulo, Paraguay. Sper. in Miis. Arad. I'hilada. ami JIus. Snaths. Washington. 



This abundant and handsome species differs from all others of this genus, 

 in having the bill green and the under parts almost entirely scarlet, the tibix 

 and a narrow belt on the abdomen being black. It is iu all American collec- 

 tions. 



1867.] 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



II. Genus PTEROGLOSSUS, Illiger. 



Genus Pteroglossus, 111. Prodr. p. 202 (1811). 



1. Pteroglossus. 



1. Pteroglossus Aracari, (Linnseus). 



Ramphastos Aracari, Linn. Sjst. Nat. i. p. 104, (1758). 

 Ramphastos atricoUis, Miill. Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 83, (1776). 

 Gould, Monog. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 12, 2d ed. pi. 15. Bufif. PI. Enl. 166. 

 Shaw, Nat. Misc. pi. 198. Le Vaill. Ois. Par. pi. 10, 12. 



Adult cf . With one wide, well defined band of scarlet on tlie abdomen. Entire head 

 and ueek glossy blacli ; bacli, wings and tail fine dark green; under parts of body green- 

 ish-3-ellow (except the wide band of scarlet across the abdomen). Tibise olive- 

 green, mixed with reddish ; rump scarlet. Bill with the upper mandible yellowish-white, 

 (or straw color) and a ivide longitudinal band of black on the culmen ; under mandible 

 black ; at the base of both mandibles, and completely enclosing the bill, a raised band of 

 straw-yellow. Legs greenish. Frequently an obscure spot of dark chestnut on the ear, 

 and usually an obscure and imperfect narrow band of scarlet between the black and yellow 

 on the neck or breast. 



Total length about 18 or 19 inches ; wing 6, tail 7i, bill (chord) 4i to 5 inches. 



Hab. — iS'orth-eastern South America, Guiana, Northern Brazil. Spec, in Mus. Acad. 

 Philada. and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



This might erroneously be supposed to be a common and well known 

 species, but between P. fonnosus on one side, which is larger, and P. Wiedii 

 on the other, which is smaller, but both otherwise very similar, it is not 

 entirely easy to fix its identity, nor to ascertain which of the three was origi- 

 nally described. At present I rely on the plate and description of Mr. Gould. 



The wide band or stripe on the culmen is the only remaining hope for this 

 species, this stripe being narrow (or not so wide!) in both of its aspiring rela- 

 tives, now about to be brought forward. It does appear, though, that the 

 tibia are more mixed with red than in either P. formosus or P. Wiedii, and 

 other small points of dili'erence can be developed by the diligent and patient 

 student. 



2. Pteroglossus Wiedii, Sturm. 



Pteroglossus Wiedii, Sturm, ed. Gould's Ramphast. p. 

 Sturm, ed. Gould's Monog. pi. Gould, Monog. 2d ed. pi. 16. 



Much resembling the preceding, but smaller, with the bill shorter and less curved, and 

 the longitudinal stripe on the culmen much narrower. Tibiae more clearly dark green; 

 breast with little or no mixture of scarlet. 



Total length about 17 or 18 inches; wing byi to b%, tail GJ^ to 7, bill (chord) 4 to 4i^ 

 inches. 



Young male Throat and sides of the neck with a decided tinge of dark chestnut ; other 

 parts as in adult. 



Hah. — Central and eastern South America, Bahia, Rio de Janeiro. Spec, in Mus. Acad. 

 Philada. 



Smaller than the preceding, with the longitudinal stripe on the culmen 

 narrow. Inhabits more southern districts of South America. 



3. Pteroglossus formosus, Cabanis. 



Petroglossus formosus, Cab. Jour. Orn. 1862, p. 332. 



Mueii resembling both of the preceding, but larger^than either. Stripe on the culmen 

 narrow, as in P. Wiedii. Yellow plumage of the Breast mixed with red, as in P. Aracari. 

 Tibise green, as in P. Wiedii. Bill long, strongly curved at the end (perhaps more slender 

 than in either of the preceding). 



Total length about 19 or 20 inches ; bill (chord) b}A inches. 



Hah. — Northern South America, " Venezuela" (Cabanis). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



Y'oung. This species? Bill thick, much shorter than in adult, cutting edge of upper 

 mandible integral, smooth (not serrated as in adult). Entire head dull brown or snuft' 

 color, darker on the crown ; upper part of back, wings and tail dark green ; under parts of 

 body dull and pale greenish-yellow; wide band across the abdomen dull yellowish-red. 

 Bill nearly uniform greenish-yellow, darker on the under mandible, lighter at the tip. 

 Yellow of the breast mixed with pale reddish. 



Total length about 14 inches. 



This is a large species like P. Aracari, but with the longitutional stripe on 

 the culmen narrow as in P. Wiedii. One specimen in the Acad. Mus. is this 

 bird. It is labelled "Demarara" in a hand writing that I do not recognise. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



4. Peteroglosstjs pluricinctus, Gould. 



Peteroglossus pluricintcus, Gould Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1835, p. 157. 

 Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 15, 2d ed. pi. 17. 



About the size of P. Aracari, or rather larger. With two bands on the under parts of the 

 body; one is blaclv across tlie breast, the other is mixed black and scarlet across the abdo- 

 men. Head and neck black, with a rich bluish lustre ; back, wings and tail dark green ; 

 rump scarlet. Under parts of body (except the bands) fine greenish-yellow or straw-color, 

 much mixed with scarlet; lower band almost entirely scarlet and expanded on the sides; 

 tibise greenish-chestnut. 



Upper mandible rich yellow, nearly orange on the basal half of the bill, a wide stripe of 

 brownish-black on the "culmen, under mandible brownish-black, bill enclosed at base by a 

 raised line of yellow. Female and young male with the ears tine chestnut. 



Total length about 18 to 20 inches ; wing to G)^, tail 7, bill (chord, from corner of mouth 

 direct to point) 4 to i)/^ inches. " Iris yellow" (Lieut. Herndon, in Smiths. Mus.) 



Hab. — Jiforthern South America, •' Rio Negro," " Rio Orenoque " (Acad. Mus.), " Petas, 

 Amazon River" (Lieut. Herndon). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. and Mus. Smiths. Wash- 

 ington. 



A beautiful and strongly characterized species, easily distinguished from 

 either of the preceding by its two bands on the under parts. It is, however, 

 sinjrularly afflicted with relatives (as follows immediately) and to avoid dis- 

 couraging entanglements, it is necessary to remember that in this species and 

 the next succeeding only, P. poeciloisternus, the upper band (on the breast) is 

 complete and well defined and black. In all others the upper^band is imper- 

 fect or rudimentary, or not at all. 



5. Pteroglosscs pcecilosternus, Gould. 



Pteroglossus pcecilosternus, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1843, p. 147. 

 Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 18. Le Vaill. Ois, Parad. pi. 11. 



Only differing from the preceding in having the lower band (on the abdomen) nearly 

 fine scarlet, or but slightly mixed with black, and the yellow of the under parts less mixed 

 with scarlet. 



Total length 18 to 20 inches. 



i?(.(6.— Western South America, Peru. Spec, in 'Mus. Acad. Philada. and Mus. Smiths. 

 Washington. 



This species, if such it is, inhabits a more western range of locality than 

 the niext preceding, F. pluricinctus, which it exceedingly resembles. One 

 specimen in Smiths. Mus. is in Lieut. Herndon's collection from the Western 

 tributaries of the Rio Amazon. One other in the Acad. Mus. bears Mr. 

 Gould's label, but without locality. 



6. Pteroglossus erythropygius, Gould. 



Pteroglossus erythropygius, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1843, p. 15. 

 Voy. Sulphur, Birds pi. 28. Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 21 (lower 

 figure). 



Under mandible yellow, tipped with black (the under mandible is black in all others of 

 this connection). Upper mandible with a wide longitudinal band parallel with its cutting 

 edge (which the preceding two species have not). Otherwise much resembling P. ^Z«n- 

 cinctus and j)cecilostemus. 



Total length 18 inches (Gould). 



Hub. — Realejo, Western Nicaragua (Mr. Gould). 



This species I have not seen. It appears to be much like the various allies 

 of P. phcricinctusjhnt has the under mandible yeilow in its basal two thirds. 

 Nearly allied also to the next succeeding [P. sangidncus) but that species has 

 the under mandible black. 



7. Pteroglossus sanguineus, Gould. 



Pteroglossus sanguineus, Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 2d ed. p. (in text of 



P. erylhropi/ffiu-s), (1854). 

 Pteroglossus erytliropygius, Cassin, Cat. Michler's collection, Proc. 

 Acad. Philada., 1860, p. 136. 

 Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 21 (upper figure). 



Resembling the immediately preceding, but with the under mandible black (which i.s 

 yellow in that species — P. erythropygius). k longitudinal band of black near tlie (uitting 

 edge of the upper mandible, as in the preceding (but not in any other of the allies of P. 



1867.] 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADExMT OF 



p'airicinctus). Yellow of the under parts much mixed with scarlet. Otherwise much re- 

 sembling P. pluricinclus. 



Total length about 18 to 20 inches ; wing 6 to 6}4, tail 7 inches. Female rather smaller. 



Hah. — New Grenada, Rio Trnando, a tributary of the Rio Atrato. Spec, in Mus. Smitlis. 

 Washington, and JIus. Ac-ad. Philada. 



Six specimens in Capt, Michler's collection, from the Rio Atrato and its 

 tributaries, are undoubtedly this species, and as distinct as customary in this 

 group from P. erythropygius. It is probably not smaller than that species. 



8. Pteroglossus torquatcs, (Gmelin). 



Ramphastos torquatus, Gen. Syst. Nat. i. p. 354, (1788). 

 Pteroglossus ambiguus, Less. Traite. d'Orn. i. p. 178, (1831). 

 Pteroglossus regalis, Licht. 



Ramphastos discolor, Mull. Svst. Nat. Supp. p. 83, (1776). 

 Tucana mexicana torquata, Briss. Orn. iv. p. 421. 

 Gould, Monog. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 14, 2d ed. pi. 20. 



Generall3- resembling the preceding, but rather smaller, and distinguished by a hand of 

 chestnut on the neck behind. Upper band (on the breast; nearlj' obsolete, or represented 

 only by a large black spot on the breast. Yellow of the under parts much mixed with 

 scarlet. 



Total length about 17 inches. 



Young J. Bill with the cutting edges plain, without serratures, and entirely light 

 brown, yellowish on the edges of the upper mandible. Adolescent. Under mandible 

 nearly black; upper mandible orange at base; plumage nearly as in adult, but dull, and 

 abdominal band narrow and imperfect. 



Hah. — Central America, Northern South America, Mexico ? Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 

 and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



Numerous specimens in Smiths. Mus. from Angostura and Turrialba, Costa 

 Rica, and from Coban and Choctun, Central Guatemala, and in the Acad. 

 Mus. from Chiriqui, Costa Rica, and Veragua, New Grenada, and several spe- 

 cimens labelled '• Mexique." One specimen in Acad. Mus. is labelled "Guay- 

 aquil," Ecuador. 



This handsome Toucan, was until recently, a highly respectable species, 

 eminently distinguished by its chestnut collar worn on the neck behind; but 

 that character is no longer peculiar, two other species having appeared 

 setting up the same badge of distinction with some propriety. "We will 

 IJroceed to examine their claims without unnecessary delay. 



9- Pteroglossus nuchalis, Cabanis. 



Pteroglossus nuchalis, Cabanis, Jour. Orn. 1862, p. 332. 



Very similar to the preceding, — P. torqtuilus, — and with a chestnut collar on the neck be- 

 hind." Bill larger, longer, and curved at the end at a wider or more obtuse angle. Black 

 spot on the breast smaller, and yellow of the under parts more mixed with scarlet than in 

 P. torquatus. 



Total length about 18 inches. 



Hab. — " Purto Cabello " (Cabanis). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



This species, if so, can be recognized mainly by its larger and longer bill, 

 gradually curved and not so decidedly nor abruptly hooked at the end as in 

 P. torquatus. The under parts in the specimen before me are more mixed or 

 spotted with scarlet than in either of ten specimens of that species [P. tor- 

 quatus) in the Acad, and Smiths, collections, and at the termination of the 

 black on the neck in front there is a band of bright scarlet, narrower, but 

 more complete than in either of them. It may be only a full plumaged or 

 older specimen of that species ! 



The only specimen in Acad. Mus. is labelled " Pteroglossus regalis, % ? Mex- 

 ique,' in a handwriting that I do not recognise. 



10. Pteroglossus Frantzii, Cabanis. 



Pteroglossus Frantzii, Cab. Sitz. Bericht Naturf. Berlin, 18G1. Jour. Orn. 

 1862, p. 332. 



Like P. torquatus and P. nuchalis, and about the same size or rather larger, but with the 

 abdominal band very wide and nearly pure scarlet. Upper mandible yellow, except the 

 usual stripe on the culmen, which is black, and a space of dark greenish at base (yellow at 

 the tip, which is black in P. torquatut and P. nuchalis). Chestnut-colored collar on the neck 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



bthind darker, and perhaps more narrow than in those species. Bill larger and wider 

 than in P. Inrqiiatus, but not so long as in P. nuchalis, and with the teeth smaller than in 

 either. In other characters much resembling these and other allies oi P . jiluricinctus. 



Total length about 18 to 19 inches; wing 6 to 6)i, tail (53^ to 7, bill (chord of upper mandi- 

 ble) 4 inches. 



Young. Bill with the cutting edge of upper mandible smooth (not serrated, as in the 

 adult), entirely dull brown. Head dark brown; abdominal band yellowish-scarlet. General 

 colors as in adult. 



Hab. — Costa Rica, "San Jose," "Angostura," " Chiriqui." Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Wash- 

 ington, and Mus. Acad. Philada. 



This Fpecies is of the same general style and colors as the two preceding, 

 and has a well defined nuchal collar, but is easily to be recognized by its 

 wide and clear scarlet abdominal band, and yellow pointed upper mandible. 

 The abdominal band is more than double the width of that of either P. tor- 

 quatus or P. nuchal'S, and seems to afford a character entirely reliable in 

 determining this species. 



Specimens in the Smiths. Mus. are from the large and very interesting col- 

 lections of Mr. Julian Carmiol, made at various localities in the Republic of 

 Costa Rica as above cited. 



11. Pteroglosscs castanotis, Gould. 



Pteroglossus castanotis, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1833, p. 119. 



Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 13, 2d ed. pi. 19. 



This is one of the strongly marked species of this sub-group, and (in a 

 sort of aggregate) is not difficult to recognize, a large space on the sides of 

 the neck, continuing into a wide collar on the neck behind, being rich dark 

 chestnut. In all specimens before me the neck in front is chestnut also, but 

 this space differs in extent, and may give place to black. In two specimens 

 the throat, immediately at the base of the under mandible and within its 

 fork, is black, in others it is chestnut. One band only on the abdomen, which 

 is wide and well defined, and bright scarlet. 



Entire justice has not been done to this species, regarding as praiseworthy 

 example the treatment of P. aracari, P. pluricinctus, and /-". torquatus. Like 

 them, it beads a group of allies and affinities which seem to inhabit different 

 localities ; and in the specimens now before me I think I could set up a spe- 

 cies or two, as customs seem to prevail in this group. But having got through 

 the almost inextricable tangle of the preceding ten species, after a fashion, I 

 am quite demoralized, and very sure that no living man can remember the 

 species already described in this group, unless, like the gay young gentleman 

 who tied his cravat with such wonderful success, he gives his whole mind 

 to it. 



Adult cf . Sides of the neck rich dark chestnut, which color continues into a wide, well 

 defined band on the neck behind; frequently, neck in front also chestnut. Head above, 

 and throat black, especially near the commencement of the yellow of the under parts (but 

 above frequently chestnut). Back, wings and tail dark green. Rump scarlet: a wide band 

 on the abdomen scarlet ; other under parts pale greenish-yellow, mixed with scarlet on 

 the breast and under tail coverts. Tibite dark chestnut, frequently mixed with green. 

 Upper mandible yellow, with a wide band of black on the culmen in its basal three fourths, 

 and another at its base and near its cutting edge, of nearly the same length. Under man- 

 dible black. Legs dark colored. ? . Like the male, but with the chestnut of the head 

 more extended. 



Total length about 17 to 22 inches; wing C to 7, tail 5}^ to 7, bill (chord) 3^ to 5}^ inches. 



//ob.— Northern and western South America, Rio Amazon (Lieut. Herudon), Para (Imp. 

 Mus. Rio de Janeiro), Peru (Mr. Gould). 



This fine species is strongly characterized by the chestnut color of the neck, 

 throat and cheeks, but this color seems to be variable in extent, and in some 

 specimens now before me extends to the top of the head. The size of speci- 

 mens is also quite different, the smallest in the present collection being in 

 Capt. Page's collection from the Rio Parana, and labelled " Brazil," — undoubt- 

 edly correct, and showing the most southern locality yet ascertained for this 

 species. These are both sexes in mature plumage, and so much smaller than 

 specimens from the Rio Amazon that they would easily make a species in 

 this group. Another specimen in the Acad. Mus., labelled 9i has the head 



18(37.] 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



entirely chestnut, with only frontal and superciliary stripes black. Thrf e 

 varieties of this species may be distinguished : 



r. caslanotis, a, castanotis. — Larger ; head above black ; total length about 20 

 to 22 inches. Northern, Rio Amazon, Peru. 



h, australis. — Smaller; head above brownish-black ; total length 

 about 16 to 17 inches. Southern, Rio Parana. 



c Entire head chestnut, with a frontal band and su- 

 perciliary stripes black. Locality unknown. 

 Perhaps young female of var. castanotis. 



2. Grammarhynchus. 

 Genus Grammarhynchus, Gould, Monogr. Ramph. Intr. p. 26 (2d ed., 1854). 



12. Pteroglosscs ixscriptis, Swainson. 



Pteroglossus inscriptis. Swains. Zool. 111. ii. p. (1820). 

 Pteroglossus scriptus, Temm. Man. d'Orn, i. p. 76 (1820). 



Gould, Monogr. Ramph., 1st ed. pi. 23, 2d ed. pi. 23. Swains. Zool. 111. ii. 

 pi. 90. 



This is the first of three species which form a sub-group of the genus 

 Pteroglossus ; all having the plumage dark green on the upper parts, and plain 

 greenish-yellow on the under parts, without the bands and spots which are 

 so conspicuous in the preceding sub-group, or typical Pteroglossus. These 

 species resemble each other, but differ in size and other characters, especially 

 the colors and markings of the bills, and are without exception represented 

 with entire accuracy in Mr. Gould's Monograph of the Ramphastidaj. 



Adult cf. Small; bill with both mandibles yellow, tipped with black, the under mandible 

 black at base, and a wide longitudinal band on the culmen black. Both mandibles with 

 irregular black marks on their cutting edges (rather remotely resembling letters). Head 

 and neck black; back, wings and tail dark green; rump scarlet; under parts of body 

 greenish-yellow or lemon-yellow; tibise mixed with chestnut; legs dark green. 



Adult ?. Throat and sides of the neck dark chestnut, otherwise like the male. 



Young rj. Bill dull yellow, with the band on the culmen dull brown and indistinct, and 

 tipped with dull brown. Head above black, throat chestnut; otherwise as in adult. Yellow 

 of the under parts with obscure spots of dull reddish. 



Total length about 1.3 inches ; wing 41^, tail a%, bill (chord) 2^to Z^ inches. 



Hal). — Northern south America. IS'orthern Brazil, " Guiana," "Para." Spec, in Mus. Acad. 

 Philada. 



Distinguished from the succeeding by the under mandible being yellow in 

 a large middle space (the under mandible is entirely black in both of the 

 succeeding, — P. Ilumboldtii and P. viridis). This is a common species in col- 

 lections, and of which numerous specimens are in Acad. Mus., but none of 

 them very carefully labelled for locality, being only given as " Brazil " and 

 " Guiana." 



13. Pteroglossus Humboldtii, Wagler. 



Pteroglossus Humboldtii, Wagl. Syst. Av. p. (1827). 

 Gould, Monogr. Ramph., 1st ed. pi. 22, 2d ed. pi. 22. 



Resembles the preceding, P. inscriptis, but is larger, and has the under mandible black. 

 Cutting edge of the upper mandible with irregular black marks, remotely resembling let- 

 ters. Tibiae chestnut, and in some specimens there are obscure marks of dull chestnut, 

 forming an imperfect and partially concealed band on the abdomen. Plumage in both 

 sexes as in the preceding. 



Total length about 15 to 17 inches ; wing 5 to 5J^, tail 6 to &}4, bill (chord) 3}4 to 4 inches. 



Hab. — Northern Brazil, "Upper Amazon," " Minas Gerass, Peru, "Head waters of the 

 Huallaga River." Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philadelphia, and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



Clearly distinguished from the preceding by its black under mandible. 

 Specimens in the extensive and valuable collection made by Mr. Walter S. 

 Church, from the head waters of the Huallaga River, Peru, are the largest, 

 and have a partial band on the abdomen, of chestnut, much more apparent 

 than in specimens from Mr. "Wallace's collections on the Upper Amazon. The 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



bill also seems more sleuder. Specimens in Acad. Mus. labelled " Upper 

 Amazon." 



14. Pteroglossus tiridis (Lianseus). 



Raraphastos viridis, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 150 (1766). 



Rampliastos glaber. Lath. Iiid. Orn. i. p. 138 (1790). 



Pterojilossus brevirostris, Less. Traite d'Orn. i. p. 178 (1831). 

 Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 21, 2d ed. pi. 24. Swains. Zool. 111. iii. 

 pi. 169. Shaw, Nat. Misc. xvii. p 717. Bufif. PI. EuL 727, 728. Le Vaill. 

 Ois. Par. pi. 16, 17, Edwards' Birds, vii. pi. 330. 



Like the preceding in colors and general characters, hat without the irregular letter-like 

 marks on either mandible. Upper manililile dull aieeuisli-yonow, with a black line near 

 to and parallel with the culmen; under in:uiilil)le l)lack. Phiinage of tlie male much as in 

 the preceding; head black, back, wings and tail dark green; uuder parts greenish-}'ellow; 

 tibiae green, mixed with dull chestnut. 



Female. Head and neck chestnut ; otherwise like the male. 



T .tal length about 13j inches; wing 4^ to 4%, tail 4J to 5. bill (chord) .31 inches. 



^ab.— jS'orthern South America, "Guiana." Spec, in Mus. Acad. Phllada. 



LonSf known nnd r>nivim^" ;« _„ii._ii- - f — - 



ERRATA. 



Page 75— for " Lygarus " read " Lygaeus."' 



<T i32_eighth line from bottom, substitute " cretaceous " for " tertiary.' 

 u 139-twentv-fifth line iVora top, for " Sphan-ula" read " Spban-ella." 

 u iS4-niueleenth line from top, for " Ilypoethon " read " Ilypocthoa." 



Total length about 14 inches ; wing 4^ to 5, tail 5 J, bill (chord) S\i to 3i inches, 

 i/afc.— NoVthern South America, " Para," -'Guiana." Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



Of this gayly colored species four specimens are in the Acad. Mus., which 

 are all that I have seen. It, is easily distinguished by its white and black 

 under mandible, and is accurately and very handsomely figured by Mr. Gould 

 as above. Specimens in Acad. Mus. are labelled " Para " and '• Guiana," and 

 occasionally brought also in collections from New Grenada. 



16. Pteroglosscs Stcrmii, Natterer. 



Pteroglossus Sturmii, Nat. in Imp. Mus. Vienna. Sturm ed. Gould Monog. 

 (not paged, 1842.) Gould, Monog. Ramph. 2d ed. (1854.) 

 Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 2d ed.pl. 17. Sturm's ed. pi. 7. 



Similar to the preceding, but smaller, and with the under mandible entirely black. 

 i/a6.— Northern South .Vinerica, "Rio Madeira" (Natterer). Spec, in Imp. Mus. Vienna 



This species I have not seen. Its point of distinction from F. hitorquatun is 

 mainly its black under mandible, but a few other characters are pointed out 

 in Sturm's edition of Gould's Rami)hastidae, as above, and in Mr. Gould's 

 second edition. 



17. Pteroglossds flavirostris, Fraser. 



Pteroglossus flavirostris, Fras. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1840, p. 60. 

 Pteroglossus Azarse, Gould, Monog. Ramph., 1st ed. (nee Vieill.) 

 Gould, Monog. Ramph., 1st ed. pi. 17, 2d ed. pi. 29. 



Generally resembling the two preceding, but with the scarlet belt restricted to the neck. 



1867.] 8 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



entirely chestnut, with only frontal and superciliary stripes black. Thrte 

 varieties of this species may be distinguished : 



F. caslanotis, a, castanotis. — Larger ; head above black ; total length about 20 

 to 22 inches. Northern, Rio Amazon, Peru. 



h, australis. — Smaller; head above brownish-black ; total length 

 about 16 to 17 inches. Southern, Rio Parana. 



c Entire head chestnut, with a frontal band and su- 

 perciliary stripes black. Locality unknown. 

 Perhaps young female of var. castanotis. 



2. Grammarhynchus. 



Genus Grammarhynchus, Gould, Monogr. Ramph. Intr. p. 26 (2d ed., 1854). 



12. Pteroglosscs ixscriptis, Swainson. 



Pteroglossus inscriptis. Swains. Zool. 111. ii. p. (1820). 

 Pteroglossus scriptus, Temm. Man. d'Orn, i. p. 76 (1820). 

 ^ i:. X, D u ic:t o^ nl '?3 ?d pd. Til. 23. Swalns. Zool. 111. 11. 



Philada. ~~ ~ ~" ~~'~~ 



Distinguished from the succeeding by the under mandible being yellow in 

 a large middle space (the under mandible is entirely black in both of the 

 succeeding, — P. Iluviboldtii and P. viridis). This is a common species in col- 

 lections, and of which numerous specimens are in Acad. Mus., but none of 

 them very carefully labelled for locality, being only given as "Brazil" and 

 " Guiana." 



13. Pteroglossus Hcmboldtii, Wagler. 



Pteroglossus Humboldtii, Wagl. Syst. Av. p. (1827). 

 Gould, Monogr. Ramph., 1st ed. pi. 22, 2d ed. pL 22. 



Resembles the preceding, P. inscriptis, but is larger, and has the under mandible black. 

 Cutting edge of the upper mandible with irregular black marks, remotely resembling let- 

 ters. Tibise chestnut, and in some specimens there are obscure marks of dull chestnut, 

 forming an imperfect and partially concealed band on the abdomen. Plumage in both 

 sexes as in the preceding. 



Total length about 15 to 17 inches ; wing 5 to 53-^, tail 6 to 6}^, bill (chord) zyi to 4 inches. 



iJa6.— Northern Brazil, "Upper Amazon," "Minas Gerass," Peru, "Head waters of the 

 Huallaga River." Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philadelphia, and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



Clearly distinguished from the preceding by its black under mandible. 

 Specimens in the extensive and valuable collection made by Mr. Walter S. 

 Church, from the head waters of the Huallaga River, Peru, are the largest, 

 and have a partial band on the abdomen, of chestnut, much more apparent 

 than in specimens from Mr. Wallace's collections on the Upper Amazon. The 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



bill also seems more sleuder. Specimens in Acad. Mus. labelled " Upper 

 Amazon." 



14. Pteroglossus yiridis (Linnseus). 



Ramphastos viridis, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 150 (1Y66). 



Ramphastos glaber. Lath. lud. Orn. i. p. 138 (1790). 



Pterofrlossus brevirostris, Less. Traite d'Orn. i. p. 178 (1831). 

 Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 21, 2d ed. pi. 24. Swaius. Zool. HI. iii. 

 pi. 169. Shaw, Nat. Misc. xvii. p 717. Buff. Pi. Eul. 727, 728. Le Vaill. 

 Ois. Par. pi. 16, 17. Edwards' Birds, vii. pi. 330. 



Like the preceding in colors and general characters, but without tlie irregular letter-like 

 marks on either mandible. Upper mandible dull greeuish-yellow, with a black line near 

 to and parallel with the eulmen; under mandible black. Plumage of the male mu(>h as in 

 the preceding; head black, back, wings and tail dark green; under parts greenish-yellow; 

 tibise green, tnixed with dull chestnut. 



Female. Head and neck chestnut; otherwise like the male. 



T .tal length about V.ik inches : wing 4k to i%, tail 4j to 5, bill (chord) 3^ inches. 



Hab. — Northern South America, "Guiana." Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



Long known and common in collections from Guiana and Northern Brazil. 

 Numerous specimens in Acad. Mus., but labelled only "Guiana" and 

 " BraziL" 



3. Pyrosterna. 



Genus Pyrosterna, Bonap. Aten. Ital. (1854.) 



15. Pteroglo.ssus bitorquatus, Vigors. 



Pteroglossus bitorquatus, Vig. Zool. Jour, ii, p. 481 (1826). 



Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 16, 2d ed. pi. 26. 



We now enter upon another well defined sub- group, presenting brilliant 

 colors, and with a wide belt of scarlet on the breast in all of the five species 

 at present known. Very handsome, and distinguished from each other mainly 

 by the colors of the bills. 



Adult J. Bill with the upper mandible yellow, under mandible white at base, with its 

 terminal half black. Head above black; throat and sides of the neck chestnut; a narrow 

 crescent of pale yellow on the neck in front, succeeded by a wide transverse band of scar- 

 let; abdomen pale yellow ; tibi;e dull green. Wide space on the neck behind scarlet; 

 back, wings and tail dark green; rump scarlet. Legs greenish-blue. Sexes alike? 



Total length about 14 inches; wing 4|- to 5, tail 5i, bill (chord) .3!4 to .3j inches. 



/fuft.— Northern South America, " Para," -'Guiana." Spec, in Mus. .icad. Philada. 



Of this gayly colored species four specimens are in the Acad. Mus., which 

 are all that I have seen. It is easily distinguished by its white and black 

 under mandible, and is accurately and very handsomely figured by Mr. Gould 

 as above. Specimens in Acad. Mus. are labelled " Para '' and " Guiaua," and 

 occasionally brought also in collections from New Grenada. 



16. Pteroglossus SToaMti, Natterer. 



Pteroglossus Sturmii, Nat. in Imp. Mus. Vienna. Sturm ed. Gouli Monog. 

 (not paged, 1842.) Gould, Monog. Ramph. 2d ed. (1854.) 

 Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 2d ed. pL. 17. Sturm's ed. pi. 7. 



Similar to the preceding, but smaller, and with the under mandible entirely black. 

 Hab. — Northern South America, " Kio Madeira " (Natterer). Spec, in Imp. Mus. Vienna 



This species I have not seen. Its point of distinction from P. bilorquaius is 

 mainly its black under mandible, but a few other characters are pointed out 

 in Sturm's edition of Gould's Ramphastid«, as above, and in Mr. Gould's 

 second edition. 



17. Pteroglossus flavirostris. Eraser. 



Pteroglossus flavirostris, Eras. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1840, p. 60. 

 Pteroglossus Azar», Gould, Monog. Ramph., 1st ed. (nee Vieill.) 

 Gould, Monog. Ramph., 1st ed. pi. 17, 2d ed. pi. 29. 



Generally resembling the two preceding, but with the scarlet belt restricted to the neck, 



1867.] 8 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



in front, and succeeded by a wide transrerse belt of black, edged with scarlet on its lower 

 border; abdomen greenish-yellow. Head above black; throat and sides of the neck 

 chestnut; neck beliind with a wide band of brownish-red or deep red (nearly scarlet). 

 Back, wings and tail dark green, rump scarlet. Bill yellow, with a transverse band of 

 orange near the cutting edge of the lower mandible ; edge of the upper mandible black. 



Tofol length 12 to 15 inclies ; wing U to 5i, tail 5 to Ci bill (chord) 3^ to 3^ inches. 



Hab. — Northern South America, New Grenada, Northern Brazil, Rio Negro, Rio Amazons, 

 Para. Spec, in Mus. Acad, Philada. and Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



This very handsome species is frequently received in collections from Bo- 

 gota, and is readily distinguished from the tivo preceding by its wide band 

 of black on the breast, the scarlet band being restricted to the neck in front. 

 From the two species next succeeding, F. Marix and P. Azarte, this bird is 

 mainly distinguished by the colors of the bill. 



18. PTEROGLOSsrs MarivE, Gould. 



Beauharnaisius Maria-, Gould, Monogr. Ramph. Intr. p. 22 (2d ed. 1854). 

 Gould, Monogr. Ramph., 2d ed. pi. 30. 



Much resembling the preceding, but smaller, and with the under mandible entirely duU 

 orange or ochre color (not with a stripe only of that color on the lower mandible, as in P, 

 Aurra^). Other colors as in P. flavirostris. 



Total length 14 inches (Gould), 



Hah. — Amazon River. Spec, in Mus.? 



This species I have not seen. 



19. Pteroglossus Xzxvix (Vieillot). 



Ramphastos Azara, Vieill. Nouv. Diet, xxxiv. p. 282 (1819). 

 Pteroglossus nigridens, Temm. Man. d'Orn. i. p. 75 (1820). 

 Gould, Monogr. Ramp. 2d ed. pi. 28. Vieill. Gall. Supp. pi. 16. Le Vaill. 

 Ois. Par. Supp. pi. A. 



Resembling the two ispeeies immediately preceding, P. Jlavirostris and P. Maria, but 

 with a wide longitudiBal band in the upper mandible of orange-red ; under mandible yel- 

 low. Colors of plumage as in P. flavirostrts, and abo^t the same size. 



Total length 14% inches (Gould). 



Hab. — Amazon River (Gould). 



This species I have not seen, 



' 4. Beauhamaisiug. 

 Genus Beawbamaisius, Bonap. CoDsp. At. i. p. 95 (1849). 



20. Pteroglossus Beauharsaisii, Wagler. 



Pteroglossus Beauharnaisii, Wagl. " Unterb. das Ausland, 1830, p. 470." 

 Pteroglossus Pccppigii, Wagl. Isis, 1832, p. 1230. 

 Pteroglossus lepidocephahis, Nitzsch. Pterylog. p. 13S (1840). 

 Pteroglossus ulocomus, Gonld, Proc. Zool. Soc. Locdon, 1833, p. 38. 

 Gould, Monogr. Ramph. lat ed. pi. 18, 2d ed. pi. 25. 



Differs from all other species in having the feathers of the head changed into a singular 

 tissue resembling horn or whalebone, wliich are curled on the top of the head, flattened or 

 spatulate on the oecipnt. and black (on the head above). Throat and sides of the neck 

 with similar horn-like feathers, which are straight, and white, tipped with black. Back of 

 the neck and rnmp carmine; back, wings and tail dark gseen. Breast yellow, with nu- 

 merous small spots of scarlet ; sides and a wide band on the abdomen scarlet ; middle of 

 the abdomen yellow ; tibia; greea. 



Total length IG to 18 inches. 



.Hab. — Northern South America, Upper Amazon. Spec, in Mas. Aead^ Philada, 



A curious bird, easily recognized by its most singular bead-gear, which ha? 

 the appearance of being composed of curled shavings of horn sr whalebone 

 of a lustrous black color. Rare in American collections, but stated to be 

 common enough in the countries on the Rio Amazoss. Specimeas in Acad- 

 Mus. were received from European dealers. 



5. Baillonius. 



1\. Pteroglossus Bailloni (Vieillot). 



Rampha&tos Bailloni, VielU. Nouv. Diet, sxxiv. p. 283 (I919'>. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



Pteroglossus croceus, Jard. and Selb. 111. Orn. i. (no pajre nor date.) 



Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 1st ed pi. 20, 2d ed. pi. 41. Le Vaill. Ois. Parad. 

 ii. pi. 18. Jard. and Selb. 111. Orn. i. pi. 6. 



A singular and anomalous form, not related specifically to any other. Head and entire 

 under parts saffron-yellow. Rump crimson; upper parts of body, wings and tail yellowish- 

 green. Sexes alike. 



Total length about 1.5 to 16 inches. 



fliift.— Central and Eastern South America, Brazil. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. and 

 Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



Quite common in collections from Brazil. This peculiar and oddly-colored 

 species seems to be most properly arranged here, though usually rated as an 

 Atidigena. It does not intimately resemble any other species of Toucan. 



The following may be an additional species of Fteroglossus, but is doubtful, 

 and unknown to modern naturalists. 



25. Pteroglosscs Aldrovandi (Shaw), Wagler, Syst. Av. sp. 1 (1827). 

 Ramphastos Aldrovandi, Shaw, Gen. Zool. viii. p. 366 (1811), 

 Ramphastos picatus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 152 (12th ed. 1776)? 



Albin's Birds, ii. pi. 26. 



" This bird is little bigger than the common Magpie; the head, neck, and' 

 upper part of the back towards the neck, are black ; the rest of the back and 

 wings show something of a cinereous whiteness. The breast shines with a 

 most bright and lovely gold or satfron color, with a certain redness near the 

 beginning; the belly and thighs of a most beautiful vermillion or scarlet 

 color. The red color reaches almost half-way of the tail, and is intercepted, 

 by a broad bar of black, and ending in a beautiful red ; the legs, feet and 

 claws are black." 



"Its bill is very large, considering the bigness of the bird ; its length was 

 six inches, breadth at the upper part towards the head two inches and a quar- 

 ter, the circumference at the same place five inches and a half; the upper 

 chap is large and somewhat hooked, with a cavity exactly fitting the under 

 chap, both serate [sic) or toothed, and of a thin bony substance, and a cover- 

 ing over that of a horny-like scale, both very thin and light, weighing but 

 eight drachms. It was of a yellowish color, clouded with a darkish green, 

 towards the end or point reddish ; its nostrils were situate just above the 

 horny substance of the bill, adjoining to the head, which is large and thick, 

 as is suitable and requisite to sustain a bill of that length and bigness." — A 

 Natural History of Birds, illustrated with two hundred and five copper plates 

 curiously engraven from life, and exactly colored by the author, Eleazer 

 Albin. To which are added Notes and Observations by W. Derham, D. D., 

 Fellow of the Royal Society. London, 1738 (vol. ii. p. 24). 



The peculiarities of the bird here described are the abdomen and thighs 

 being scarlet, and the tail being scarlet at base and tipped with "beautiful 

 red." The plate, " exactly colored," seems to represent a I'lerof/lossus, but of 

 a species quite unknown, and, in fact, has much the appearance of a fictitious 

 specimen, though Albin, as above (ii. p. 24), intimates that he has seen it 

 living. It is the sole authority for the species. 



III. Genus SELENIDERA, Gould. 



Genus Selenidera, Gould, Icon. Av. pt. i. (1837). 



1. Selenidera. 



I. Selenidera maculirostris (Lichtenstein). 



Pteroglossus maculirostris, Licht. Verz. p. 7 (1823). 

 Ramphastos raacuhuus, Vieill. Gal. Ois. ii. Supp. p. (1834). 

 Gould, Monog. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 24, 2d ed. pi. 31. Vieill. Gal. ii. Supp. 

 pi. 14, 15. Jard. and Selby, III. Orn. i. pi. 26. Le Vaill. Ois. Par. pi. 15,. 

 Supp. pi. A. A. 



1867.] 




116 PROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OP 



With this species we again enter upon a group resembling each other in 

 colors of plumage, but distinguished by different colors and markings of the 

 bills. All the species are smaller than in either of the preceding groups, 

 Ramphastos or Pteroglossus, and form apparently a natural and readily defined 

 group, probabl}' generic. All the species are singularly alike in colors of 

 plumage, and are nearly of the same size. They are, without exception, repre- 

 sented with extraordinary accuracy in Mr. Gould's Monograph of the Family 

 Ramphastidx. The ear coverts are yellow in all known species of this group, 

 and present an immediately available generic character. 



Adult c?. Bill pale bluish or greenish-white, darker on the eulmen and at the base ; up- 

 per mandible with about four or five irregular transverse bars of black, the last of which 

 (nearest the tip) extends to the under mandible also, fonning a very distinct and nearly 

 perfect transverse band across both mandibles near the end. Head, neck and breast glossy 

 black ; ear coverts orange nearest the eye. pale yellow posteriorly. Narrow band of yellow 

 on the back of the neck ; back, wings and tail dark olive-green, tinged somewhat vpith 

 yellowish on the back and rump. Flanks with a large spot of orange ; abdomen yellowish- 

 green ; under tail coverts scarlet. About six middle tail feathers, tipped with chestnut. 

 Feet greenish-brown. 



.\dult ?, Head, neck and breast reddish-chestnut; otherwise much as in the male. 



Total length about 12 to 1.3 inches ; wing 5 to b%, tail ^'^4 to .5, bill (chord) 2}/, inches. 



/?'j/>.— Central and eastern Brazil, Rio de Janeiro, St. Katharines, Bahia. Spec, in Mus. 

 Smiths. Washington, and Mus. Acad. Philada. 



Abundance of specimens of this species in Smiths. Mus. and Acad. Mus., 

 but not specially stating locality ; nor is there any specimen in young or im- 

 mature plumage. It is brought commonly from Brazil. 



2. Selenidera Gouldii (Natterer). 



Pteroglossus Gouldii, Natt. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1837, p. 44. 

 Gould, Monog. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 32. Icon. Av. pi. 7. 



Much resembling the preceding, and about the same size, but with the basal half to two- 

 rthirds of the upper mandible black (not with tran.sverse bars or bands, as in that species, 

 <S. macuHroxIris.) Under mandible with one transverse band near the tip. Large spaces 

 on the flanks deeper orange. 



$. Very nearly as in S.maculirostris, hat with the upper mandible black at base, as in the 

 anale. 



Total length 12 to 13 inches. 



Sab. — Northern South America, Para, Rio Amazons. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



Easily distinguished by the black of the upper mandible, and inhabits 

 more northern regions of South America than S. maculirostris. Specimens in 

 Acad. Mus. labelled " Para " and " Rio Amazons," the latter from Mr. Wallace's 

 collections. 



3. Selenidera Langsdorffii (Wagler). 



Pteroglossus LangsdorfiSi, Wagl. Syst. Av. (1827.) 

 Gould, Monog. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 28, 2d ed. pi. 33. 



Resembling the preceding two species, but with the bill entirely bluish-black, paler at 

 base, especially of the under mandible. Colors of the plumage much as in the preceding, 

 in both sexes. 



Total length about 12 to 13 inches. 



Hab. — Western South .America. Peru, .\mazon River (Lieut. Herndon). Spec, in Smiths. 

 Mus. Washington, and Mus. Acad. Philada. 



This species has the upper mandible uniform bluish-black or dark horn- 

 color, paler at base; under mandible with the paler base extending to one- 

 half to two-thirds of its length, bluish-black in the terminal portion. Easily 

 distinguished from the two preceding or other species by these colors of the 

 bill. Lieut. Herndon's specimens in Smiths. Mus. are labelled " Amazon 

 River," but as he crossed the continent on the route of that river, they are 

 probably from its western or head waters. Other specimens in Acad. Mus. 

 are from Peru. 



4. Selenidera Reinwardtii (Wagler). 



Pteroglossus Reinwardtii, Wagl. Syst. Av. (1827.) 

 Gould, Monog. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 26, 2d ed. pi. 34. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Like the preceding, but with the bill dull red in the basal two-thirds of both mandibles ; 

 terminal one-third bluish-black. Plumage in both sexes much as in the preceding. Size 

 perhaps rather larger. 



Total length 12«4 to 13>< inches. 



ifat.— Western South .\meriea, Peru, Ecuador? Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



Having an entirely peculiar coloring of the bill, and inhabiting western and 

 perhaps north-western South America. Mr. Gould mentions a specimea 

 which was probably from the country on the Rio Napo, Specimens in Acad. 

 Mus. are from Peru. 



5. Selkxidkra Natterkri (Gould). 



Pteroglossus Nattereri, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1835, p. 157. 

 Gould, Monog. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 25, 2d ed. pi. 35. 



Bill red, but with culmen green, and with several irregular transverse bars of greenish- 

 black across both mandibles, widest at the base. Ear coverts pale yellow nearest the eye, 

 orange posteriorly (the reverse of all the preceding species). Chestnut color of the tibiae 

 extending: on the flanks. Plumage generally as in all the preceding in both sexes. 

 Total length 12 to 13 inches. 

 .Hitft.— Northern South America, Rio Negro, British Guiana. Spec, in Mus. Aead. Philada. 



Differing again from all of the preceding in the colors of the bill, and hav- 

 ing the colors of the ear spot reversed, as above described. Spec, in Acad, 

 Mus. labelled as above. 



2. Fiperivorus. 



Genus Piperivorus, Bouap. Ois. De Lattre, p. 84 (1854). 



6. Selenidera pipeeivoea (Linnfeus). 



Ramphastos piperivorus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 103 (1758). 



Pteroglossus culik, Wagl. Syst. Av. (1827.) 

 Gould, Monog. Ramph., 1st ed. pL 27, 2d ed. pi. 36. Buff. PL Eal. 577, 729. 

 Edwards' Birds, vii. pi. 330. Le Vaill. Ois Parad. pi. 13, 14. 



This species, though having in the male the same general colors of plumage 

 as all the preceding species of the genus Selenidera, differs in the bill being 

 longer and more strongly curved, and the plumage of the female is different 

 from that of those species, and quite peculiar. The bill somewhat approaches 

 that of Pteroglossus, and this species may be regarded as an analogue of that 

 group in the present, just as the next species represents Ramp/uislos. This 

 species, undoubtedly, as Mr. Gould remarks with his usual accuracy and ex- 

 cellent judgment, is properly to be retained in this genus. 



Adult cf. Upper mandible red at base, with its terminal seven-eighths black; under, 

 mandible with its basal one-half red, and its terminal one-half black (base of Ijill dull red- 

 dish-yellow in dried specimens). Ear spot yellow, or very slightly tinged with orange. 

 Large space on the tianks yellowish-green, scarcely distinguishable in some specimens. 

 Other plumage as in the preceding, but with the green of the upper parts darlver. All the 

 tail featbers tipped with chestnut 



Total length V2% to ri}4 inches. 



Adult 5- A wide space on the neck behind chestnut; top of the head black. Back, 

 wings and tail green, the back with a yellow tinge. Throat, neck before and bre.ast fine 

 bluish-gray, with a greenish tinge running into yellowish-green on the abdomen. Tibiie 

 chestnut, generally mixed with green ; under tail coverts scarlet; tail feathers tipped with 

 chestnut. Legs greenish-brown. 



Hnli.—'SoTthein South America, Guiana, Cayenne, Rio Amazons. Spec, in Mus. Acad. 

 Philada. 



Numerous specimens in Acad. Mus., labelled as above. 



3. Ramphastoides. 



7. Selenidera spectabilis, Cassin. 



Selenidera spectabilis, Cass. Proc. Acad. Philada. 1857, p. 214. 



Jour. Acad. Philada. iv. pi. 1 (quarto). 



The largest species of this genus, and with the bill larger and wider verti- 

 cally. Easily distinguished from cither of its congeners by its size and the 

 colors of the bill, though having the same general colors of plumage. Ear 

 coverts yellow. 



1867.] 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Adult cf • Colors of the upper mandible divided obliquely by a line from below the nosf- 

 tril to the edge of the upper mandible w"lthin its terminal "one-thii-d. Upper portion and 

 tip greenish-j-ellow (in dried specimen) : lower portion and under mandible greenish- 

 black, paler at base. Bill at base with a line of black Lis in f-peeies of Mamphastos}. Ear 

 spot light yellow ; flank with a large spot of orange-j'ellow. Head, neck a-nd body below 

 glossy black ; back and wings dark olive-green. Under tail coverts scarlet ; tibite chest- 

 nut. 'Tail greenish-blue, with gray tinge (uniform, and having no chestnut tips). Legs 

 bluish-brown. 



Adult $. Bill as in the male. Head above and neck behind dark chestnut; other plu- 

 mage as in the male. 



Total length about 1.5 inches ; wing r,}4, tail 5, bill (chord) 4 inches. 



Hah. — Northern South .\meriea. Central America, " Cocuvas de Veragua, New Grenada" 

 (^Ir. EoVjert W. Mitchell), "Province of Choco, New Grenada" (Mr. W. S. Wood. Jr.), Costa 

 Rica (Mr. J. Carmiol). Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Washington, and Mus. Acad. Philada. 



Specimens in Smiths. Mus. are in the valuable collections of Mr. Julian Car- 

 miol, from Costa Eica, and from Captain Michler's collection from the Eio 

 Atrato. Mr. MitchelFs type specimens in Acad. Mus. are from Jsew Grenada, 

 as above. 



lY. Genus AULACORAMPHUS, G. R. Gray. 



Genus Aulacoramphus, G. R. Gray, List Gen. 1840, p. 50. 



Aulacorhynchus, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1834, p. 147. 



1. Aulacoramphus. 



1. ArLACORAMPHUS suLCATUS (Swainson). 



Pteroglossus sulcatus, Swains. Jour. Roy. Inst. ix. p. 267. 

 Swains. Zool. 111. i. pi. 44. Temm. PI. Col. 356. Gonld, Mon. Ramph., 1st 

 ed. pi. 31, 2d ed. pi. 42. 



Entire plumage grass-green, darker on the upper parts of the body, wings and tail 

 lio'hter. and tinged with yellow on the under parts; throat bluish or grayish-white ; cheeks 

 and narrow stripe over the ev'e blue. (Rump green, uniform with the back.) Both mandi- 

 bles with wide, very distiuctgrooves throughout their length. Upper part of upper man- 

 dible and tip of tinker mandible brownish-red ; lower part of upper mandible black. Under 

 mandible, at base, red (tip brownish-red); intermediate space black. Legs greenish- 

 brown. Tail bluish at the end (not tipped with reddish-brown, as in the next succeeding). 



Total leneth about 13 in(*es; wing -tj^ to o}4. tail 5, bill (chord) 2}/i to 3 inches. 



ITafc— Northern South America, Venezuela, "Caraccas." Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



Easily distinguished by the grooved ovsulcate bill, but especially that charac- 

 ter in tiie under mandible. In the specimens now before me there is con- 

 siderable difference in size, and especially in that of the bill : and in one spe- 

 cimen, olitained at Caraccas, the bill measures 2} inches, wing 4.} inches. la 

 the largest specimen the bill is 3 inches, wing 5^ inches. Seyeral specimens 

 in Acad. Mus. 



This species is the type of a group, undoubtedly generic, first indicated by 

 Mr. Govild under the name Aulacorhi/nchug, but which, having been previously 

 used, was changed by Mr. Gray to Aulacoramphus, as above. It is a singularly 

 uniform group in coloring, all of the eleven species at present known being of 

 grass-green and yellow colors, though the species are for much the greater 

 part more strongly distinct from each other than in any other group of this 

 family. My present impression is that size is ~an uncertain character in this 

 genus, and'more variable, and generally so, in the same species than usual. 



2. Aulacoramphus Derbianus (Gonld). 



Aulacorhynchus Derbianus, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1835, p. 49. 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 32, 2d ed. pi. 43. 



Upper mandible onlv sulcate; occiput with a \vide transverse band of pale blue; longer 

 tail feathers tipped with reddish-chestnut. (Rump green, uniform vrith the back.) Both 

 mandibles at base brownish-red; tip of upper mandible red; intermediate space of both 

 mandibles black. Entire other plumage grass-green; throat bluish or gnwish-white ; 

 cheeks blue ; line over the eye bluish-white ; line at base of bill white, and very c-onspicu- 

 ous. Laraer than the preceding. 

 Total length about 14 to 15 inches. ^. „ ^- ^ „ ^ , 



flab.—Western South America. Peru (Dr. W. S. W. Rusehenberger, L. S. Navy), Colum- 

 bie" (Mr. J. P. Verreaux"s label), Bolivia (Mr. Gould). 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



Resembling the preceding in colors, but easily distinguished by the large 

 occipital band of pale blue, and has the longer tail feathei's tipped with chest- 

 nut (which is not the case in the preceding, A. sulcatum). The under mandible 

 is not grooved, as in the preceding. 



Of this species, specimens from Peru seem to have the bills darker than in 

 others labelled as from " Columbie " in Mr. Jules Verreaux's hand-writing, 

 though otherwise quite similar. In the Acad. Mus. there are specimens in 

 very fine plumage from the '■ Province of Cnrco, Peru," in the valuable col- 

 lections presented by Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, of the United States Navy. 



3. AULACORAMPHUS CASTANEORHYNCHUS (Gould). 



Pteroglossus (Aulacorhynchus) castaneorhynchus, Gould, Ann. and Mag. 



Nat. Hist. 1842, p. 238. 

 Aulacoramphus castaneirostris, Bonap. Ois. Delattre, p. 84 (1854). 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 44. 



Larger. Bill fine ehestnut-red, oulmen usually black ; large space in middle of under 

 mandible usually black ; line of white at base of bill wide and very distinct, especially on 

 under mandible. Rump scarlet; longer feathers of the tail widely tipped with brownish- 

 chestnut. Entire plumage grass-green, \Fith a golden tinge on the neck behind and back, 

 paler and stroiiijly tinged with blue on the under parts, especially the breast; middle tail 

 feathers strnugly tinged with blue; cheeks and small spot over the eye blue. 



Total length aiiout IT to 19 inches. 



jHa6.— Northern South America, New Grenada, " Bogota." Spec, m Mus. Acad. Philada. 



The largest species of this group. Much resembling the preceding, A. Derbi- 

 anus, but with the rump scarlet. In three specimens now before me in Acad. 

 Mus., no two are exactly similar in the colors of the bill, and one only corres- 

 ponds in that respect with Mr. Gould's beautiful plate of this species. In two 

 others a band of black is strong and well-defined on the cnlmen and on the 

 middle of the lower mandible. In the one specimen the black of the culmeu 

 is much more restricted and less clearly defined, and the under mandible al- 

 most entirely black. 



Easily distinguished from either of the preceding by its scarlet rump and 

 larger size. Specimens iu Acad. Mus. from Bogota. 



4. Aulacoramphus h.ematopygus (Gould). 



Pteroglossus ha?matopygus, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1834, p. 147. 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. Isted. pi. 33, 2d ed. pi. 45. 



Like the preceding, .4. caxtuneorhi/nchus, but smaller, and with a shorter and stouter bill- 

 Total length 14 inches (Mr. Gould). 

 Hab. — Ecuador. Spec, in coll. Mr. John Gould, and Dr. P. L. Sclater, London. 



In the large collection now under examination I have no specimen which 

 exactly corresponds with Mr. Gould's plate and description, but I do not find 

 any characters which might not readily be found in the j'onng of the prece- 

 ding, A. castaneorhi/nchus, especially in view of the lial)ility to variation which 

 seems to prevail in this group. One specimen only known to Mr. Gould, but 

 this species is given b}' Dr. Sclater in List of Birds from Pallatauga, Ecuador. 

 (Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1859, p. 146). 



5. AuLACOBAMPHCs c.ERULEici.xcTus (D'Orbigny). 



Aulacoramphus cajruleicinctus, D'Orb. Voy. Am. Ois. p. 382 (1844). 

 Pteroglossus Lichtensteini, Sturm ed. Gould's .Monog. (not paged, 1845). 

 D'Orb. V03-. Am. Mer. Ois. pi. 66. Gould. Mon. Ramph. 2d ed pi. 46. 



Large; bill dark bluish horn-eolor, with the tip and edges of both mandiV)les yellowish- 

 white. Wide traiisver?<e band on the breast pale blue. Rump red; tips of longer tail 

 feather.'! brownish-chestnut ; throat bluish-white ; cheeks t)lue; line over the eye Ijluish- 

 white. Entire other plumage grass-green, tinged with yellow on the abdomen and under 

 tail coverts. 



Total length from 14 to 10 inches. 



//a^/.— Western South .Vmerica, Bolivia, "Columbie." Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. and 

 Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



The bluish or horn color of the bill is peculiar, and immediately available in 

 the recognition of this species. Five specimens in Mus. Acad, difl'er in size 



1867.] 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and also in length and thickness of bill, two specimens from D'Orbigny's col- 

 lections being the smallest, and probably not adult. These last are from 

 '• Yungas, Bolivia." Others are labelled " Columbie," in the hand-writing of 

 Mr. Jules Verreaux. The wide pectoral band of pale blue is also a strong and 

 peculiar feature in this species. 



One specimen of this fine species is in the very interesting and valuable 

 collection presented to the Smithsonian Institution "by the Hon. D K. Cartter, 

 of Washington, D. C., and made by him while Minister of the United States t» 

 the republic of Bolivia. 



2. Ramphoxanthus. 



Genus Ramphoxanthus, Bonap. Ois. De Lattre, p. 84 (1854). 



6. Adl.\coramphcs prasixcs (Gould). 



Pteroglossus prasinus, Gould, .Monog. Ramph. 1st ed. p. (1834). 

 " Pteroglossus prasinus, Lichtenstein," Gould, as above. 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 29, 2d ed. pi. 47. 



Upper mandible yellow, with a longitudinal stripe on its cutting edge black ; spot at the 

 base of the eulmen black, passing into chestnut-red anteriorly, and a small irregular spot 

 of black below the nostril: under mandible black. Under tail coverts chestnut, and all 

 the tail coverts tipped with chestnut. Throat and cheeks white, frequently tinged with 

 yellowish or bluish. Entire other plumage grass-green, tinged with golden on the head 

 and neck behind, and with blue on the under parts of the body, at the ends of the shorter 

 quills, and towards the ends of the longer tail feathers. 



Tdtal length 13 to 14J/^ inches ; wing 5, tail 5 to b]/, inches. 



//«/;.— Mexico, Jalapa(Mr. D'Oca)," Orizaba (Prof. F. Sumiehrast), Mirador, near Vera 

 Cruz (Dr. C. Sartorins), Guatemala, Coban, C'lusee (Mr. Henry Hague). Spec, in Mus. Acad. 

 Philada. and Mus Smiths. Washington. 



An abundant species in American collections, and contained in all the vari- 

 ous and interesting collections from Jalapa, Jlexico, sent to the United States 

 b}' Mr Rajjhael Moutes D'Oca. Also, usually in the very fine collections from 

 Orizaba sent b}' Prof. Sumiehrast, and from Mirador by Dr. Sartorius, to the 

 Smithsonian Institution. Specimens in the Smiths. Museum from " Central 

 Guatemala " are in a very valuable collection made by Mr. Henry Hague. 



This is the first of several species in which the upper mandible is yellow, as 

 above described. A^ery handsomely figured by Jlr. Gould, as above cited. The 

 line at the base of the bill in this species is yellow. 



7. AuLACORAMPHCs Wagleri (Sturm). 



Pteroglossus Wagleri, Sturm, ed. Gould's Mon. Ramph. (not paged, 1845). 

 Pteroglossus pavoninus, Gould. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1835, p. 158. 

 " Pteroglossus pavoninus, Mus. Mun.," Gould, as above. 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. jjI. 30, 2d ed. pi. 48. 



Like the preceding, A. prasinus, but with the base of the upper mandible black (yellow 

 in A prdxiniis). and the line at the base orange-yellow. 

 Total length about 14 inches. 

 Hub. — Mexico? Spec, in Imp. Mus. Vienna. 



This species I have not seen, but from Mr. Gould's and Mr. Sturm's descrip- 

 tions and figures I have no doubt that it is an entirely valid and respectable 

 species. 



8. ACLACORAMPHCS ALBIVITTATA (BoisSODeau). 



Pteroglossus albivitta, Boiss. Rev. Zool. 1840, p. 70. 

 Pteroglossus microrhynchus, Sturm, Mon. Ramph. (name on plate). 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 2d' ed. pi. 49. 



Like the two immediately preceding, ^.prasi7?«s and .i. TFa^Zcn', but with a wide transverse 

 band at base of the bill, white and conspicuous (narrow and yellow in those species). Up- 



Eer part of upper mandible yellow, lower part black; a narrow band across the eulmen 

 rownish-black. Plumage as in A. prasinus. 

 Total length about 1.'5 inches. 



H^j/;.— Northern South America. New Grenada, Bogota. Spec, in Mus. Acad Philada. and 

 Mus. Smiths. Washington. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Frequently received in Bogota collections, and several specimens in Acad. 

 Mus. are labelled " Columbie " in Mr Verreaux's hand-writing. Much resem- 

 bling the two preceding, especially ^. j!)rtf.s/«;/«, but easily recognized by its 

 white band at the base of the bill. The black portion of the under mandible 

 is also much Avider. 



9. AuLACORAMPHtrS ATROGULARIS (Sturm). 



Pteroglossusatrogularis, Sturm ed. Gould's Mon. Ramph. (not paged, 1845). 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 50. 



Throat black. Upper part of upper mandible yellow, lower part black ; upper mandible 

 with a line of white at base, frequently tinged with yellow, or with a line of white and an- 

 other of yellow at base. Under mandible black, with a wide line of white at base, some- 

 times tinged with yellow. Colors generally as in A. prasintis and A. biviUatus. 



Total length I214 to 15 inches. 



Hub. — Western South America, "Peru, Ecuador" (Mr. Gould), " Columbie " (Mr. Ver- 

 reaux's label). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



The peculiarity of this species is the black throat, which character is strongly 

 defined in two specimens in Acad. Mus., but in one other the throat is black, 

 tinged and edged with blue. This specimen is, however, evidently not adult. 



10. AULACORAMPHUS C.KRULEOGULARIS, Gould. 



Aulacoramphus ca?ruIeogularis, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1853, p. 

 45. 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 51. 



Throat and cheeks lilue. Upper mandible with a wide transverse band of reddish-chest- 

 nut at base, and also a longitudinal band ot black in the basal one-third of the eulmen. 

 Upper part of upper mandible yellow, lower part black; under mandible black; a wide line 

 at base of bill yellow in upper mandible, wider and white in the lower mandible. Inferior 

 tail coverts chestnut; all the tail feathers tipped with chestnut. Entire other plumage 

 grass-green, strongly tinged with golden on the head, and with yellow on the abdomen. 

 Legs bluish-brown. 



Total length about 12i^ to 14 inches ; wing i}4 to 5, tail i}4, bill (chord) 2^ to 3 inches. 



" Iris black, length 14 inches " (Dr. A von Frantzius). " fris brown, length 14}4 inches " 

 (Mr. J. Carmiol). " $, length 13 inches." 



Hub. — Costa Rica, " Berris," "La Palma," "San Jose" (Dr. A. von Franzius), " Dota," 

 "Barranca," "Turriaiba" (Mr. J. Carmiol), Veragua (Mr. Gould). Spec, in Mus. Smiths. 

 Washington. 



Numerous specimens in the Smiths. Coll., exclusively from Costa Rica. This 

 species strongly resembles the immediately preceding, .4. airogularis, but has 

 the throat blue instead of black, and the plumage of the head is glossed with 

 golden yellow, and in other respects it is quite distinct and easily recognized. 

 Seems to be the most abundant species of Toucan inhabiting Costa Rica. 



11. Aulacoramphus cyanol^emus, Gould. 



Aulacoramphus cyanolaemus, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1866, p. 24. 



"Male. Bill black, with a small mark of yellow at the tip of the upper mandible, and a 

 band of white at the base of both mandibles, except on the eulmen; this white band is 

 much narrower on the upper than on the under manditjle, and moreover has the posterior 

 half of its breadth pale yellow. Naked skin around the eyes dull red ; throat grayish-blue, 

 approaching to violet, and becoming of a deeper tint where it joins the green of the neck ; 

 a tinge of blue also appears at the base of the ear coverts, towards the bill, and over the 

 eye, where, however, it becomes of a greener hue. Plumage of the head and body deep 

 grass-green, with a wash of yellow on the tlanks ; primaries black, edged with brown ; un- 

 der surface of the wing pale yellow; tail feathers deep green, conspicuously tipped with 

 chestnut; under tail coverts chestnut-brown; legs green." 



" Total length of male 12 inches ; bill 2%, wing 0%, tail 5^, tarsi \%:' 



"Female. Precisely similar in color, but, as is the case with all the other species of the 

 genus, much smaller than the male." 



"if «/>.— Loxa in Ecuador." 



"ifem ir',-.— This well marked species is allied to the Aulacoramphus cieruleigularis ot Pana- 

 ma, and the A. atrif/ubirix of Peru, but differs from the former in the smaller extent ol blue 

 on the throat, from the latter in having no trace of black on that part, and from both in the 

 markings of the bill." (Mr. Gould.) 



This is Mr. Gould's description, but the species is unknown to me. 



1867.] 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEM"? OP 



V. Genus AXDIGEXA, Gould. 



Genus Andigena, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1850, p. 93. 



1. Andigena. 



1. Andigena hypoglaucus (Gould). 



Pteroglossus hypoglaucus, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1833, p. 70. 

 Gould, Mod. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 19, 2d ed. pi. 38. 



Bill with its basal one-half yellow, enclosing a nearly trianprular spot of black near the 

 base; terminal portion of upper mandiVjle red ; terminal pDrtinn of the under mandible 

 black. Head above black; back and wing coverts rcddish-bruwn; rump yellow; outer 

 webs of quills dark green. Under parts and band around tlie neck light blue or bluish- 

 gray; tibise chestnut; under tail coverts scarlet; tail greenish-black, the four middle 

 feathers tipped with chestnut ; legs bluish-brown. 



Total length 17 to 18 inches; wing 634, tail 63^ to 7, bill 4 inches. 



fla7>.— Western South America, Peru (Hon. J. Randolph Clay), " Columbie" (Mr. J. Ver- 

 reaux's labelj. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



This is an oddlj' colored species, two specimens of which in the Acad. Mus. 

 are all that I have seen. One specimen in excellent plumage is in the inter- 

 esting collection made by the Hon. John Randolph Clay in Peru, while Minis- 

 ter of the United States to that country; and the other was received from the 

 establishment of the Messrs. Verreaux, Paris. These specimens have the bills 

 differing somewhat in size and length, but are otherwise quite similar. 



This is the type of a very peculiar group, certainly of generic value, and so 

 described and named as above by that great naturalist, Mr. John Gould, of 

 London. All of the known species are of rather plain but grotesque and oddly 

 arranged colors. This lot is evidently what my lamented and accomplished 

 friend and associate, the late Dr. Wilson, was accustomed to call " the eccentric 

 type " of the Toucans. 



2. Andigena laminirostris, Gould. 



Andigena laminirostris, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1850, p. 93. 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 37. 



Bill with a raised plate or lamina of yellow in its basal half; band at base of bill red, 

 other parts of bill, black. A large spot on each tlank orange-yellow. Head above and neck 

 behind black; back and wings light brown or snutf-color ; rump greenish-yellow. Under 

 parts light blue; tiliite dark chestnut; under tail coverts scarlet; tail bluish-black, the four 

 middle featliers tipped with chestnut; legs bluish-bj-own. 



Total length about 18 inches ; wing 0)^ to 7, tail 6}4 to 7, bill 3)^ inches. 



£a6 —Ecuador (Hon. Charles R. Buckalew). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. and Mus. 

 Smiths. Washington. 



Strongly characterized by the curious raised plate in the basal half of the 

 upper mandible. The colors of the plumage in this strange Toucan resemble 

 those of the preceding, A. hypoglaucus, but differ entirely in the bill, and in the 

 present bird there is no extension of the color of the under parts around the 

 neck behind, and it has large spots of orange on the flanks. 



The fine collection made in Ecuador by that accomplished gentleman and 

 statesman, the Hon. Charles R. Buckalew, late Minister of the United States to 

 that country, and now United States Senator from Pennsylvania, contained 

 several excellent specimens of this curious biri, very similar in their colors 

 and other characters. Mr. Buckalew's collection was presented by him to the 

 Smithsonian Institution. 



3. Andigena cucullatus (^ Gould). 



Pteroglossus cucullatus, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1846, p. G9. 

 Gould, Men. Ramp. 2d ed. pi. 40. 



Much resembling^ hijpor/laiicus. hut with the bill yellow in its basal two-thirds and black 

 in its terminal one-third ; under mandible with a black spot near its base. Tail black (not 

 tipped with chestnut). Plumage nearly as in A. hypoglaucus. 



Total length about 18 inches. 



Hab. — Bolivia. Spec, in Brit. Mus. London. 



This species is not in any American collection, to my knowledge, and seems to 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



be only known from three specimens obtained in Bolivia by Mr. Thos. Bridges, 

 and now or recently in British collections. I am not without a suspicion that 

 this bird is the young of A. hi/pofflaucus, which, judging from Mr. Gould's ex- 

 cellent plate and description, it closely resembles, except in the colors of the 

 bill. 



2. Ramphomelas. 



Genus Ramphomelas, Bonaparte, Ois. De Lattre, p. 84 (1854). 



4. AxDiGENA NiGRiROSTRis ( Watcrhouse). 



Pteroglossus nigrirostris, "Waterh. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1839, p. 111. 

 Pteroglossus melanorhynchus, Sturm, ed. Gould's Mon. Ramph. 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 39. 



Bill black. He.ad above and neck behind Ijlack ; back and wing coverts sienna-brown ; 

 upper tail coverts pale yellow. Throat and sides of the neck bluish-white; under parts of 

 body pale blue; under tail coverts scarlet; tibiae dark chestnut; quills greenish-I)lack, 

 edged externally with brown ; tail bluish or greenish-black, the longer feathers tipped 

 with chestnut; legs greenish-black. 



Total length 18 to 19 inches ; wing 6}^ to 7, tail 8, bill 4 to 4^ inches. 



Hab. — Northern South America, Bogota, " Columbie." Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. 



Easily recognized by its entirely black bill, and not intimately resembling 

 either of its preceding congeners. Specimens in Mus. Acad, were received from 

 Europe, and are labelled "Bogota" and " Columbie." 



5. Andigena spilorhynchus, Gould. 



Andigena spilorhynchus, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1858, p. 149. 

 " Crown of the head and back of the neck glossy black ; back, wing coverts 

 and margins of the primaries dull sienna brown, secondaries bluish-brown ; 

 upper tail coverts blue, strongly tinged with green; tail slaty-blue, tinged 

 with green, the four central feathers largely tipped with chestnut ; band 

 across the rump sulphur-yellow. Throat and cheeks white, blending into 

 the light blue of the breast and abdomen; thighs rich chestnut ; under tail 

 coverts blood-red ; feet greenish-blue, with a lilac tinge on their under sur- 

 face ; bill black, with a mark of obscure brownish-red at the base of the upper 

 mandible, which, when viewed in front, mucli resembles the letter W ; this 

 color advancing for a short distance on each side of the culmeu, and extend- 

 ing down the sides of the base." 



"Total length 18 inches; bill 3|, wing 7, tail Ih, tarsi If." 

 "Hah. — Forests of Beza, on the eastern side of the Cordillera, in Ecuador." 

 "Differs from A. niffriroslris in the bill being shorter, broader and much 

 more robust, and colored with obscure brownish-red at the base of the upper 

 mandible." 



One specimen in Acad. Mus. seems to approach this description, but not 

 sufficiently. It may be the young of A. nijrirostris. Dr. Sclater possesses 

 specimens from the Rio Napo, Ecuador, and says : "scarcely different from A. 

 nigrirostris." (Cat. Am. B. p. 327.) 



The following have been described as species of Ramphastos, but are either 

 not so, or the descriptions are not sufficient : 



1. Ramphastos ALDUS, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 357 (1788). 



White Toucan, Lath. Syn. i. p. 33G. 

 "All that we know of this species is that the bird is wholly of a pure white, 

 and that it is now, or was very lately, alive in the menagerie of the King of 

 Naples." Which small matter of information has in nowise increased that I 

 know of. Not given by Latham in Gen. Hist., subsequently published. 



2. Ramphastos pclcher, Miill. Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 84 (1776). 



Ramphastos pavoninus, Gm. Syst. Nat i. p, 353 (1788). 

 Tucana Mexicana viridis, Briss. Orn. iv. p. 423 (1760). 

 Xocbitenucatl, Hernandez, His. Nov. Hisp. p. 51 (1651). 



18(57.] 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



" Avis est Psittaci magnitudine et forma, ac pene tota viridis, insertis tamen 

 nonnullis pennis rubescentibus, pauoninisque aliis ; verum crura, pedesque 

 nigra sunt et tenuia ; rostrum incuruum, quaternas pene vncias logum, serra- 

 tumque, vnde nomen, et luteo, ac nigro varium colore ; calidarum regionum 

 atque maritimarum Incola est, neque alium (quod nouerim) quam plumae pra- 

 estat vsum." Hernandez, as above. 



This description has been done into various languages by competent hands, 

 but remains the sole authority for the species. It seems to be more like a 

 Trogon than a Toucan. 



3. Ramphastos flavcs_ Miill. Syst. Xat. Supp. p. 84 (1776). 



Ramphastos luteus, Gm. Syst. Xat. i. p. 353 (1788). 

 Tucana lutea, Briss. Orn. iv. p. 432. 

 "Tucana dilute lutea ; taenia utrinque longitudinali a rostro ad pectus usque 

 nigra : tectricibus alarum superioribud minimis luteis ; rectricibui albo et nigro 

 variis." 



"Habitat in Mexico." Brisson, as above. 



Probably not a bird of this family. Brisson seems to abridge from " Eus. 

 Xieremb. pag. 209," which author is not included in my circle of antique ac- 

 quaintances. 



4. Ramphastos GLAticcs, Miill. Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 84 (1776). 



Ramphastos caeruleus, Gm. Syst Xat. i. p. 357 (1788). 

 Tucana caerulea, Briss. Orn. iv. p. 433. 

 " Tucana in toto corpore coeruleo et ciuereo varia."' 

 " Habitat in Mexico." Brisson, as above. 



This is another of the descriptions which Brisson apparently copies from 

 "Eus. Nieremb. pag. 209," and perhaps also somewhat from " Aldrovandus, 

 Orn. 1 p. 803, in qua hujus icon a Xierembergio mutuata." The figure in 

 Aldrovandus probably is intended to represent a bird of this family, but 

 neither it nor his description applies to any known species. 



5. Ramphastos dcbius, Gm. Syst. Xat. i. p. 357 (1788). 



Blue-throated Toucan, Lath. Syn. i. p. 357. 

 "In a list of birds in the Museum of Baron de Faugeres of ilontpelier^ I find 

 one by the name of Toucan a gorge bleue, with this addition, ' Ce Toucan n'est 

 decrit par aucun auteur.' I do not find a Toucan with a blue throat mentioned 

 by any writer, and must therefore, with him, conclude it to be a new species. 

 As it is but very lately that I have known this circumstance, it has not been 

 in my power to say further on this head, resting the whole, for the present, on 

 his opinion." Latham, as above, and in Gen. Hist. ii. p, 294, gives the same 

 account of it, in substance. I agree in allowing it to rest for the present, but 

 should the original Baron or other be disposed to stir in the matter he can 

 now be better accommodated. 



6. Ramphastos Byrox, Miill. Syst. Xat. Supp. p. 82 (1776). 



Buceros albus, Gm. Syst. Nat i. p. 361. 

 " Captus inter insulas Tinian et Pulotimeon, anseris magnitudine." 

 A white Toucan, the size of a Goose! I guess not. 



7. Ramphastos indicus. Miller, Cimelia Phvsica p. 102 (1796). 



Mill. Cym. Phys. pi. 57. 

 " Ramphastos gula remigibus caudaque nigris, genis pectoreque albis, ab- 

 domine femorisque luteis, vertice rubro-aurantio, uropygio phoeniceo." Miller, 

 as above. 



Usually cited doubtfully as a synonyme for R. Toco, but the plate represents 

 no species at present known, and has the appearance of having been drawn 

 from a made-up or fictitious specimen, the head rather especially. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



October \st. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 



Dr. Leidy exhibited specimens of black hornstone, a variety of basa- 

 nite, from the limestone of Easton, Pa., and observed that he had 

 suspected it was of organic origin. Low microscopic power exhibits 

 in this hornstone a composition resembling oolite. 



October Sth. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-four members present. 



October I5th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-five members present. 



The following was presented for publication : 



" Notes on a Collection of Mammals from Arizona." By Elliott 

 Coues, M. D., U. S. A. 



Prof. Holmes, of Charleston, exhibited specimens of remains of 

 extinct and recent animals, accompanied by bones of man, together 

 with pottery, stone arrow-heads and hatchets, which he observed were 

 obtained from the post-pliocene strata in the neighborhood of 

 Charleston. 



Dr. Wood made some remarks on a fresh-water alga from the thermal 

 springs in Mono Co., Cal., which was said to grow in water having a 

 temperature of irom 120° — lo6° F. 



October 22d. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Notes on a Collection of Californian Myriapoda, with the descrip- 

 tion of a new Lithobiid from Illinois." By Horatio G. Wood, Jr , 

 xM D. 



" Note on Geotrygon sylvatica. Gossc." By Richard Hill. 



Abstract of a verbal coniinunicatii)n to the .\cademy of Natural Sciences of Pliiladelpliia, 

 22d Oct., 1807, by Henj. Smitli Lyiiiuii. 



On the Great CARBONIFEROUS CONGLOMERATE ia Sullivan County, Pa. 



It has been hitherto supposed that the Great Conglomerate, or Formation No. 

 XII, at the bottom of the coal measures, thinned away so rapidly northwest- 

 ward from a thickness of twelve hundred feet near Mauch Chunk, tliat it had a 

 thickness of only a hundred feet on the northern edge of the Wyoming Valley, 

 and still less in the First Bituminous Coal Basin north-west of that. A recent 

 examination of exposures in the First Bituminous Coal Basin, on the Berwick 

 and Towanda Turnpike, in the eastern part of Sullivan County, some thirty 

 miles north-west of Wilkesbarre, and twenty-five from the nearest anthracite 



1867.] 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



coal, shows that the Great Conglomerate is reallj- something like four hundred 

 feet thick. It consists here of two beds of pebble rock with white quartz 

 pebbles of the size of chestnuts, each bed perhaps seventy or a hundred feet 

 thick, and of some two hundred feet or more of sand rocks between, that are 

 light brown at the bottom and greenish above, and thin-laj'ered throughout, 

 and resembles closely the sand rocks of the productive coal measures. Some 

 sixty feet from the bottom of the saud rocks is a bed of shaly red iron ore, 

 three or four feet thick, with a six inch layer of rich dark carbonate of iron nine 

 inches above the red ore. Immediatel}' below the lower bed of pebble rock 

 there is more red iron ore and the red shales of No. XL 



At Shinersville, a mile and a half north of the Birch Creek Coal Mines, the 

 top of the lower pebble rock is seen dipping southerly towards that creek 

 quite steeply for that region, say fifteen degrees ; and, according to the State 

 Geological Report, the red shales of No. XI. are seen underlying this pebble 

 rock a short distance further north. Even if this dip should grow gentler, as 

 it no doubt does, on approaching the bottom of the basin near Birch Creek, 

 yet this lower puddingstone must pass far below the coal. On the hillside 

 from Shinersville down to Birch Creek no rocks are to be seen in place in the 

 road, but it is plain that the pebble rock is not immediately under the soil, and 

 the ground has upon it a great many blocks of brownish sandstone. On the 

 south side of Birch Creek, near the foot of the hill, two small ledges of this 

 sand rock crop out in the road apparently in place, and apparently below the 

 upper pebble rock. At the Birch Creek Mines the dip is very gentle, northerly. On 

 the hill side just north of the Loyalsock Creek, (which the turnpike crosses at 

 three miles from Shinersville) the outcrop of the upper pebble rock is very 

 conspicuous, but it does not reach to the bottom of the hill. Below it are 

 large blocks of thin-layered light brown sand rock, but none probably quite in 

 place. No red shales seem to be visible now on the turnpike near the Loyal- 

 sock on either side, in spite of an allusion in the State Report to such an 

 exposure ; nor is the lower pebble rock exposed here ; but, according to the 

 State Report, a pebble rock, which must be the lower one, is exposed in the 

 bed of that stream some miles below the crossing of the turnpike. On the 

 south side of the Loyalsock the sand rock is well exposed in the road in 

 many ledges ; it is all thin-layered, a little shaly, brownish below and greenish 

 near the top of the hill ; and the dip is gentle, northerly. South of the first sum- 

 mit south of the Loyalsock is a slight hollow with ledges of the same sand rock 

 with the same dip on the northern side, and on the top of the next summit to the 

 south bits of red iron ore are exposed in the road with a quantity of blue shaly 

 sandstone lying near it. On the south side of this second summit from the Loyal- 

 sock there is plainly an outcrop of the lower pebble rock. The ground rises 

 gently, with some small hollows here and there for half a mile fiom the last 

 mentioned summit, and there is exposed a broad flat ledge of pebble rock with 

 a decided but gentle northerly dip (perhaps three degrees) plainly passing 

 under the sand rocks to the north. The whole thickness here of these sand- 

 rocks would seem, at a guess, to be some 200 or 250 feet. Still further south 

 on the turnpike, after passing over the rough outcrop of the lower pebble rock 

 with low cliffs and huge blocks on the north side of Lopus Creek, with a dip 

 of perhaps ten degrees, and again north of Painter Den Run, with a gentle 

 northerly dip, the red shales of XI with iron ore at the top, are clearly exposed 

 to a thickness of perhaps fifty feet on the south side of Spring Brook, about 

 eight miles south of Shinersville : and this brook cuts down even deeper, into 

 a greenish gray sand rock. The lower pebble rock crops out for a mile or so 

 south of these red shales as far as the hill side south of Bear Swamp Run, and 

 lies in great blocks, with here and there a small ledge in place in the road 

 which shows apparently a very gentle southerly dip. South of this appear 

 the sand rocks of Long Pond, that continue along the turnpike for three miles 

 with little or no dip in any direction but much cross-bedded. They are 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 127 



followed for a mile on the south by the lower pebble rock, which is followed 

 at the brow of the North (or Alleghany) Mountain by the red shales of XI, 

 and these below by a greenish gray sand rock. The sand rocks of Long 

 Pond amount to a thickness of about 190 feet, according to a rough leveling 

 from an exposure of the lower pebble rock, three quarters of a mile south-east 

 of the Pond, to the top of a hill a quarter of a mile north-east of the Pond. 

 The: upper seventy feet of these sand rocks are, at least in part, greenish in 

 color, the lower 120 feet are mostly light brown or sometimes white. The iron 

 ore has been proved by digging and boring about sixty feet above the lower 

 pebble rock, and it has about fifteen feet of blue shaly sand rock below it, that 

 grows black towards the bottom, and seems to have true coal slate below it in 

 some places and very dark sand rock for a few feet below that. The lower 

 pebble rock here seems to be some seventy feet thick ; some of its layers turn 

 into sand rock in parts ; and some thirty feet below the topis an irregular bed 

 of coal slate that varies from nothing up to perhaps eighteen inches in thick- 

 ness and has sometimes a few inches of coal. 



The apparent correspondence of this coal with a thin coal bed within the 

 upper pebble rock, at Birch Creek, and the discovery of the coal slate near the 

 iron ore, and the general close resemblance of the sand rocks to those of the 

 productive coal measures, together with the statements in the State Report of 

 the thickness of the Great Conglemerate in this region, led very naturally to 

 the belief that the peblile rock at Long Pond was the same as the one at Birch 

 Creek, that it was, in fact, the whole of No. XIL and that the sand rocks of 

 Long Pond were those of the productive coal measures, and contained, like 

 those of Birch Creek, a five foot coal bed near the bottom, and a thirteen foot 

 one some fifty-five feet higher up. The lower 150 feet of the Long Pond sand 

 rocks have been, however, pretty thoroughly proved by borings and other ex- 

 posures to contain no coal bed. 



October 2dfh. 



Mr Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Seventeen members present. 

 Chas. W. Matthews was elected a menaber. 



On favorable reports of the Committees, the follovFing papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Notes on a Collection of California MYRIAPODA, with the Descriptions of 

 New Eastern Species. 



BY HORATIO C. WOOD, JR., M. D. 



The California specimens, herein noted, were collected by my friends, Dr. 

 George H. Horn, late Surgeon United States Volunteers, and Mr. William M. 

 Gabb, of the State Geological Survey, who generously gave them to me. It 

 will be noticed that certain species, which were assigned in my monograph 

 to Georgia, are included in the collection. Yet I do not believe that the 

 geographical range of these species is by any means so extensive. All the 

 specimens alluded to as described formerly as natives of Georgia, were col- 

 lected by Dr. Le Conte. That gentleman informed me, whilst preparing my 

 extended memoir, that he had made collections both in Georgia and California, 

 and presented them to the Academy of Natural Sciences. There was but a 

 single bottle to be found in the cabinet with tiie doctor's name attached, and 

 that was labelled Georgia ; consequently I concluded that the California spe- 

 cimens were missing, '"here can be no mistake as to the localities assigned 

 to the various species ia the present paper, and it seems most probable that 

 Dr. Le Conte'a specimens of Califoruian myriapods were emjjtied by some 



1867.] 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



one into the bottle containing the Georgian species, and that such as are herein 

 noted are strictly Californian types. 



Gen. MECISTOCEPHALUS. 



M. QUADRATCS, n. Sp. 



M. saturate aurantiacus, venuste politus ; capite sparse distincte punctato ; 

 antennis sparse pilosis; labio distincte punctato, medio sulcato ; mandibulis 

 distincte punctatis, intus denticulis parvis duobus armatis ; suturis sterno- 

 episternalibus et scuto-episcutalibus conspicuis ; scuto postremo triangulare; 

 pedibus utrinque 51. 



The head is rather large. The cephalic segment is slightly narrowed from 

 near the front posteriorly. The punctations, both on the upper and under sur- 

 face of the head, are mostly arranged in longitudinal series ; they are much 

 more numerous on the under surface ; there is a transverse row of them on the 

 anterior border of the cephalic segment. The mandibles are furnished, on 

 their inner margin, with two minute distant denticules ; upon the labium at 

 their base is a minute black dot. The scuto-episcutal sutures are very dis- 

 tinct, and communicate at their bases so as to leave a central quadrate islet. 



Length, about an inch and a half. 



Hab. — Los Gatos, Coast Mountains. 



Gen. GEOPHILUS. 

 G. L^Evis, Wood. 



Three specimens from the Santa Cruz Mountains, agreeing in all important 

 characters with Dr. Le Conte's specimens supposed to have been collected in 

 Georgia. The only difference is that there is not, in any of them, a ventral 

 median line ; some of them have central sternal indentations, which may be 

 considered rudiments of such a line. 



Gen. BOTHROPOLYS. 

 B. XAXTi, Wood. 



Specimens from San Jose, California, and Santa Cruz Mountains, agreeing 

 well with published description. 



Gen. SCOLOPOCRYPTOPS. 



S. SPINICAUDA, Wood. 



Specimens from San Jose, agreeing with published description, except that 

 the head is scarcely profoundly punctate, and the scuta not rugous; from Los 

 Gatos Mountains, agreeing well. 



Gen. STRIGAMIA. 

 S. L^viPES, Wood. 



Specimens from Santa Cruz Mountains and Los Gatos, Coast Mountains, 

 which exhibit no specitic differences from the specimens said to have been col- 

 lected in Georgia by Dr. Le Conte. 



S. GRACILIS, sp. nov. 



S. saturate olivacea, gracilis, elongata ; capite sparse punctato ; segmento 

 cephalico elongato ; antennis modice longis ; labio sparse punctato, medio 

 leviter canaliculato ; mandibulis parvis, intus denticulo parvo armatis ; scutis 

 nonnihil rugosis ; sternis sutnris sterno-episternalibus et depressione mediana 

 instructis ; pedibus utrinque 96, modice longis. 



The body of this geophilid is xavx long and slender. The head and mandi- 

 bles are sparsely pilose. The color is dirty olive, approaching a slate ; the an- 

 tennaj are more of an orange. The mandibles are furnished on their inner 

 margin with a single small tooth. The scuta have frequently a somewhat ob- 

 solete central depression ; they do not have the sutures well marked, but are 

 more or less irregularly wrinkled. The last pair of feet in the single specimen 

 1 have seen are large and massive ; their coxal joint is not pitted. 



Hab. — San Jose. 



I [Oct. 



-^wiF?:'^ 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



S. INERMIS, Sp. nOV. 



S. aurantiaca; corpore valde depresso, antico modice angustato ; capite mo- 

 dice magiio ; segmeiito cephalico tiiaugulare, modice lato ; anteuiiis brevibus, 

 submoiiiliformibus, luxud acuraiuatis ; maiidibulis parvis, liaud denticulatis 

 sternis depressioae mediana instructis ; pedibus crassis, brevibus, utrinque IL5; 

 sciitis brevibus sine sutiiris. 



The labium is strougly narrowed posteriorly by the very large basal joint of 

 the mandible encroaching on it. In general appearance this species closely 

 resembles G. (xniopsis, Wood, from which it is separated by the wide disparity 

 of the number of joints. The cox;e of last pair of feet are not pitted. 



Ilab. — Santa Cruz Mountains, California. 



Gen. POLYDESMUS. 

 P. IIatdenianus, Wood. 



Specimens from the Santa Cruz Mountains, agreeing well with the published 

 description. 



P. DissECTUs, sp. nov. 



P. olivaceus ? ; scuto anale parvo, triangulare ; appendicibus masculis maxi- 

 mis ; spina terminale magna, robnsta, intra pilosa, ultima in spinulis 4 secta. 



The specimens which I have seen have either lost their color from long con- 

 tact with alcohol, or else are individuals which have recently shed their skins. 

 The pattern of coloration is therefore not to be made out with certainty. The 

 lateral laminse evidently differ in color from the remainder of the scutum. The 

 male genital appendages are large. They are robust and very hairy. The ter- 

 minal spines are robust, and so placed at right angles to tlie rest of the part as 

 to be nearly horizontal and anteriorly divergent. They are furnished on their 

 inner surface with numerous long rigid hairs. Each spine in its distal third is 

 divided into two parts, and the upper of these (the one nearest the body) con- 

 sists of a short, robust, curved process, which is opposed to the lower part much 

 a3 the thumb is to the fingers. The lower division is much the larger, and is 

 terminated by a short, inconspicuous, blunt process and three spines ; of the 

 latter, the lowermost is broad, thin, obtuse, and as it werejtwisted on itself; the 

 other two are snb-cylindrical, acute and simply curved, the larger of them is 

 slightly sabre-shaped. 



This species belongs in the group Fontaria. 



Hah. — Fort Tejon. 



Gen SPIROBOLUS. 



S. UNCIGERU3, Wood. 



A number of specimens, agreeing well with the published description, ex- 

 cepting that they are much darker in color. 

 llah. — San Jose, Fort Tejon. 



Gen. JULUS. 

 J. Oregonensis, Wood. 



Hah. — Fort Tejon, San Jose. 



Gen. CRYPTOPS. 

 C. ASPERiPEs, sp. nov. 



C. aurantiacus; antennis 19 articulatis; pedibus postremis dilute aurantia- 

 cis, modice robustis, longissimis, spinulis acutis nigris numerossimis armatis ; 

 appendicibus analibus lateralibus truncatis, profunde punctatis, spinulis pan- 

 els instructis. 



Long., unc I. 



The color of this strange little animal is orange, mostly somewhat deeper on 

 the head and lighter on the feet. The labium is convex, rather short, and 

 edentate. The mandibles very long. The cephalic segment has a dark, niore 

 or less concentric marking. The scuto-cpiscutal sutures are well marked, and 

 there is in many specimens a central line. Tiie antennas have 19 joints each, 



1867.] 9 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



aud the latter are so short and broad that they are almost monilifonn. The 

 hindmost two or three pairs of feet are roughened by small black acute spines, 

 which are especially pronounced on their femora aud tibise. The last pair are 

 very much longer than any of the others and, when preserved in alcohol, the 

 last three joints are bent into the form of a triangle, so that the terminal claw 

 rests on the tibiffi-tarsal articulation, pointing inwards ; the femora and tibise 

 are almost covered with the very numerous black spines. In most specimens 

 there is a sharp black spinule on the upper posterior angle of the lateral anal 

 appendages. I am indebted to Prof. Leidy for my specimens of this species. 

 He caught them in the woods on the AUeghanies of Montgomery County, Vir- 

 ginia. 



Gen. LITHOBIUS. 



L. BILABIATUS, Sp. nOV. 



L. brunneus; segmento cephalico sparse leviter punctato, late subcordato, 

 margine postico elevato ; antennis modice longis, nonnihil pubescentibus ; 

 ocellis utrinque 13; labio antice producto, sine laminis dentalibus distinctis, 

 cum lateribus sejunctis usque ad basem ; dentibus sejunctis 4 — 6; scutorum 

 marginibus posticis rectis, angulis baud productis : pedum pare postremo in 

 mare magno, processibus magnis duobus utrinque armato. 



The general color of this species is a dark brown, with the labium and feet 

 lighter, somewhat approaching ferruginous. In the male the last segment with 

 its appendages is much lighter than the rest of the body. The cephalic seg- 

 ment is very broad in the male, much broader than the anterior portion of the 

 body. The labium is produced forward in such a way that there are no dis- 

 tinct dental laminae. The two halves are separated or merely joined by a mem- 

 brane almost to their base. Anteriorly they are very close to one another, but 

 then separate so as to make an elliptical opening closed by a thin membrane 

 and a little ligula-like process projecting on the superior portion. The styliform 

 appendages of the anal segment appear to be wanting in the male. The mar- 

 gins of the scuta are remarkably straight, the angles generally rounded, so that 

 they are not all emarginate. The feet generally are robust and somewhat 

 compressed. In the male the hindmost ones are very large, the coxte short, the 

 thigh short with the distal internal angle prolonged into a well-pronounced 

 process surmounted by numerous spines ; the next joint is large, with a long, 

 robust, curved process projecting inwards from its proximal third, and also a 

 small, nearly cylindrical one on its distal inner angle. 



In the female the next to last pair of feet is larger than those anterior to it ; 

 the last pair long, cylindrical, still larger, without processes, but with numerous 

 spines on the enlarged distal end of the thigh. I am indebted to the well- 

 known entomologist, Mr. Walsh, of Eock Island, Illinois, for a male and 

 female of this species, by whom they were captured in the vicinity of his 

 home. 



Length, | an inch. 



Note on GEOTEYGON SYLVATICA, Gosse. 



BY RICHARD HILL. 



(Communicated by Thomas Bland, New York.) 



Sj)anish Town, Jamaica, 1th June, 1867. 

 To Thomas Bland, Esq. : 



My Dear Sir: — In examining, the other day, our large ground dove, found 

 only in solitary places in our mountain forests, (the bird familiar to you by 

 the name of the mountain witch, but so named less from the beauty of its 

 coloring than from its mysterious movements — moaning in the underwood.") it 

 struck me that, in habits and contour, it had an apparent relation to the ex- 

 tinct Dodo, the Didus ineptus of naturalists. A careful examination of the only 

 remains of the Dodo, — the head and foot in the British Museum, — establishes 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



that it was one of the Columbidffi. Our mountain ground dove is the Gcotry- 

 gon sylvatica of Gosse. Its habits are solitary ; it is of a thick, heavy form ; 

 seldom seen on the vring; feeds on the ground, and has a moaning coo. 



The Geotrygon sylvatica varies in plumage from light bright tints to a sombre 

 blending of iDronze and claret-purple. It is drab colored on the head, varying 

 from blue to dull yellow. The feathers fall into a kind of hood, and the 

 plumage of the breast to the legs is edged so as to appear scaled. A scaled 

 feathering prevails in all the under plumage. It resembles in this peculiarity 

 the Carpophnya of Eastern Australia; a style of feathering rare in doves, but 

 characterizing the Dodo. Our bird is such a lover of solitude that it is seldom 

 seen ; few know its habits, beyond the lonely moaning and the uncertain 

 movements that render the tracing of it difficult in the forest. 



Our bird is the largest of our doves ; as big as a pullet. The bill has con- 

 siderable curvature and fleshiness, large and strong. It would be easy, by 

 studied exaggeration of the rounded heavy contour, with the pigeon beak, and 

 the dumpy goose-shape, to make out the Dodo-form, between the figures of 

 Boutins and Leguat. We have only to elevate it into its habitual stride, and 

 we have the stateliness and grace in Leguat's description of the solitary bird 

 of the Island of Rodrigo. That description is just our mountain-witch, grown 

 to the size of a turkey. 



Our bird is noticeable for its rasorial scratching, if that habit be correctly 

 reported. It is said to take in occasionally such molluscous food as the snail,, 

 with the eggs of termites. Mr. Gosse's information relative to mollusks is 

 very precise. He detected the snail among the contents of its craw. This is 

 a great deviation from the pigeon character. Pigeon food only varies from 

 grain by the occasional mixture of the young shoots of such succulent herbage 

 as turnip tops. 



Sir Hans Sloane has in his manuscript notes an observation made by L'Es- 

 trange on the living Dodo. It is introduced as an annotation by Wilkins in 

 Pickering's edition of Sir Thomas Brown's " Vulgar Errors." " About 1638 as I 

 walked London streets I saw the picture of a strange fowle hong out upon a cloth, 



vas* and myselfe with one or two more Gent, in company went in to see 



it. It was kept in a chamber, and was a great fowle somewhat bigger than the 

 largest Turkey Cock and so legged and footed, but stouter and thicker, and of 

 a more erect shape, coloured before like the breast of a young cock Fisan 

 (pheasant) and on the back of dunn or deare colour. The keeper called it a 

 Dodo and in the ende of a chimney in the chamber there lay a heape of large 

 pebblestones whereof hee gave it many in our sight, some as big as nutmegs." 



Yours, &c., Richard Hill. 



November btTi. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-two members present. 



Prof. E. D. Cope presented to the Academy specimens of four extinct species 

 of Mammalia, which were discovered by Jas. T. Thomas, in the Miocene de- 

 posits of the Yorktown epoch in Charles Co., Maryland. 



The first was a species of the genus Eschrichtius, to which the recent hump- 

 back whale is allied, of a species not previously known. It was called E. 

 CEPHALUS Cope. The remains preserved were a considerable portion of the 

 muzzle, both rami of the mandible, several vertebrae, and a considerable 

 number of pieces of the hand, with ulna, humerus, etc. Other specimens, 

 previously presented to the Academy, probably belonging to the sarne species, 

 were some cervical and dorsal vertebrse, portions of cranium and os petrosum 



* The name is in part erased, perhaps it was Gervas, for Gervas Hollis, the antiquary. 



1867.] 




132 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



from Yorktown, Ya., and os petrosum from Tarboro', N. Ca. The. mandibular 

 rami measured 9 ft. 4 in. and were referred to au individual 31 ft. long. They 

 were compressed, and with a narrow superior ridge, without nutritive foramina. 

 The hitherto known Miocene Whales — Balaena p r i s c a and B. p a 1 a e a t- 

 1 a n t i c a of Leidy — founded on portions of the mandibular rami, were much 

 less compressed, were furnished with numerous marginal nutritive foramina, 

 and the B. p r i s c a was without superior ridge. The anterior cervical ver- 

 tebrae were transverse quadrate. The arms were much shorter relatively 

 than the recent M. 1 o n g i m a n a and M. o s p h y i a of the American coast. 

 Mandible with a low coronoid process. 



The second, named Rhaedosteuslatiradix Cope, was a peculiar genus near 

 the Delphinida?. allied to Priscodelphinus Leidy, and perhaps Platanista of the 

 Ganges. Characteristic of it was a muzzle formed of the usual elements 

 but entirely cylindrical, the alveolar series approximated underneath, and 

 ceasing near the middle. Beyond this the muzzle was prolonged like a cylin- 

 drical beak of a sword fish, or Coelorhynchus, and probably much farther 

 than the mandible. Alveolae longitudinal fragmentary specimens of this 

 muzzle had been found by the discoverer 2-5 feet in length. 



Thirdly, a fragment of the muzzle, including the proximal portions of the 

 maxillary bones, with molars, and the canine teeth of the Squalodon atlan- 

 Ticus (Leidy). As the Miocene representative of the larger species of the 

 Eocene period, it was shown to possess a close affinity to the Miocene Squa- 

 lodon grateloupii (Gerv.) of Malta and France. The double serration 

 of the molars and their deeply divided compressed fangs were features in which 

 it differed from its congener. 



Sql'alodos mento Cope was characterized from four molar teeth, which 

 were between two and three time as large as those belonging to the Squalodon 

 w }' m a n ii (Phoca of Leidy) with similar short incurved crowns, but much 

 more rugose. One molar had a smooth compressed fang, which was little 

 curved and with groove on each side. The fangs of the others were weathered, 

 not grooved, curved and acute. 



Novemher \2ih. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-two members present. 



The following was presented for publication : 



An addition to the Vertebrate Fauna of the Miocene Period of the 

 United States. By Edward D. Cope. 



The death of Prof. Michael Faraday, correspondent, was announced. 



Dr. Le Conte made remarks, illustrated by specimens, upon the 

 tertiary coal-beds of New Mexico, in the vicinity of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains, and upon the cretaceous coal-beds of the Rio Grande Valley. 

 Both regions were regarded by him as capable of supplying abundaut 

 fuel for railroads, metallurgic and manufacturing purposes. He also 

 mentioned beds of lignite coal, in the vicinity of Denver, of great thick 

 ness — from 11 to 16 feet — free from iiiipurities. 



Novemher \%th. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Tbirty-foar members present. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



November 26;7i. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-three memhers present. 



The following gentlemen were elected Correspondents: 



Mr. W. S. Bingham, of Boston ; Prof. 0. Root, of Utica, N. Y., and 

 Col. E. Jewett, of Utica, N. Y. 



The following were elected Members : 



Messrs. Edw.^R. Murphy, Lloyd P. Smith, F. A.Hassler, G. Y. Shoe- 

 maker and 31atthew Newkirk. 



On favorable report of the Committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : 



Notes on a Collection of MAMMALS from Arizona. 

 BY ELLIOTT COUES, M. D., U. S. A. 



Circumstances have unavoidably delayed, until now, the preparation of the 

 present article, needed to complete the record of the zoological collections 

 made bj the writer in Arizona during 1864 and 1865. Articles upon the 

 Coleoptera, by Dr. J. L. Le Conte ; upon the Batrachia and Reptilia, by Prof. 

 E. D. Cope ; upon the Cheiroptera, by Dr. H. Allen ; and upon the Birds, by 

 the present writer, have alreadj- appeared in these Proceedings. The few fishes 

 collected were unfortunately destroyed in transitu. The plants, collected 

 jointly by Dr. E. Palmer and the writer, still remain in the hands of Dr. Geo. 

 Engelmann, of St. Louis, to whom they were transmitted for examination and 

 identification. These collections, taken together, may be considered to repre- 

 sent, in a measure, the more prominent features of the fauna and flora of the 

 Territory. 



The classification and nomenclature here adopted is that of Prof. Baird's 

 " Mammals of North America " (Pacific Railroad Report, vol. viii.) A general 

 sketch of the Quadrupeds of Arizona, by the present writer, has already ap- 

 peared in the " American Naturalist," vol. i., Nos. 6, 7, 8 and 10. 



CHEIROPTERA. 

 VESPERTILIONIDJE. -^ 



1. Vespertilio subulatus. Say. 



Several specimens. An abundant and generally distributed species. 



2. Vespeetilio macropus, n. s., Allen, Pr. A. N. S., Phila., Aug., 1866, p. 288. 

 One specimen, Colorado Desert, near Fort Mojave ; taken in broad daylight, 



as it was capturing insects over a small pool. 



3. Anteozods pallidus (Le Conte), Allen. 



Several specimens. An abundant species in the Colorado Valley and south- 

 ern portions of the Territory; particularly numerous at Fort Yuma. 



Other species of this family, found in Arizona, acconiing to Dr. Allen, are : 

 Lasiurus cinereus, Venpertilio lucifugus, V. evotis, V, niiidus, and Corynorhinus 

 macrolis. 



CARNIVORA. 



4. Felis concolor, Linn. 



One specimen, a fine hunters' skin, measuring 6^ feet from tip to tip. This 

 animal is generally distributed, but of rather unfrequent occurrence. 



1867.] 




13i PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



5. Lynx rcfus, Rafinesque, var. maculatus. 



Several specimens. Of frequent occurrence, particulai-ly in the vicinity of 

 Fort Whipple. 



6. Canis latrans, Say. (C.frustror, Woodhouse.) 



Numerous specimens. The most abundant of the larger mammals of the 

 Territory, and very generally distributed. It is particularly numerous in the 

 vicinity of the settlements, and very annoying. Is umbers may be readily de- 

 stroyed by poison, as is frequently done. The pelage in winter is fuller and 

 softer than in summer, and chiefly black and grayish-white, losiirg the tawny 

 aud rufous which it has in the latter season. Reproduction occurs in May or 

 June, five or six young being ordinarily brought forth, in rocky, secluded 

 places. The species is frequently precluded from indulging its carnivorous 

 tastes, and compelled to subsist, in great measure, upon fruits and berries. 



1. Caxis occidextalis. Rich., var. griseo-albus. 



Several specimens, taken at Fort Whipple in winter, are referrible to this 

 variety. The skins make very beautiful robes. No black or tawny individuals 

 were observed. The species is generally distributed over the Territory, though 

 by no means so abundant as the preceding. 



8. VcLPES viRGixiANus, RichardsoD. 



Three examples. The species is of common occurrence. No red foxes were 

 met with. V. macrourus and V. veloz may possibly be found in the Territory. 



URSIDjE. 



9. Ursus horribilis, Ord. 



One specimen, a quarter-grown cub, killed with its dam in the San Francisco 

 Mountains. The species is of common occurrence in that locality. 



EODENTIA. 

 SCItTRIB^'E. 



10. SciuRus Abertii, Woodhouse. 



S. dorsalis, Woodhouse. (Pre-occupied.) 



S. castanonotus, Baird. (Without ear-tufts.) 

 Three specimens, San Francisco Jlountains. A large and very beautiful 

 species, abundant, and a characteristic of the pine-covered mountainous por- 

 tions of the Territory. 



11. SciUECS Arizonexsis, n. s., Coues, Am. Naturalist, i., 1867, p. 357. 



One specimen, Fort Whipple, Dec. 20, 1865 ; type of the species as described 

 1. c. No other examples met with. A gray squirrel, resembling the common 

 Eastern species, but smaller, the tail longer and broader, and distinctly tricolor 

 below. 



In addition to the two preceding species S. Fr^montii, Aud. and Bach., is 

 believed to occur ; and S. fossor, Peale, from California, may possibly reach 

 the Colorado Valley. 



12. Tamias dorsalis, Baird. 



Numerous examples. An abundant species throughout the Territory. 

 Closely allied to, but readily distinguishable from the other recognized species. 

 It lives chiefly, or wholly, in rocky, broken localities. 



13. Spermophilus Beecheyi, Cuvier. 



Two examples. This species ranges into Arizona from California, hut is 

 there by no means so abundant as in the last mentioned region, where, in a 

 measure, it represents the prairie dog of the plains, both in numbers aud in 

 habits, and proves a great pest to the farmers. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



Other Arizoniaa Spermophili are : S. gramm.urus. Say, in the southern por- 

 tions ; S. tereticauda, Baird, in the lower Colorado Valley ; S. Iliirrisii, Aud. and 

 Bach. ; and probably also iS. lateralis, spilosoma, Mexicana. 



14. Cynomys Guxnisonii, Baird. 



One specimen, taken near the San Francisco Mountains, July, 1864. This 

 rare species was there found living in colonies like those of C. ladovicianus, 

 only of smaller extent. The general habits of the two appeared very similar. 



15. Castor canadensis, "Kuhl. 



Although no specimens of this animal were actually collected, it was fre- 

 quently seen, and is included here for the purpose of remarking upon its great 

 abundance on nearly all the streams of the interior of the Territory. Its pres- 

 ent numbers are doubtless owing to the fact that, of late years, it lias been but 

 little, if at all, molested by trappers, whom Indian hostilities have prevented 

 from penetrating to its haunts. 



SACCOMYID^E. 



16. Thomomys FCLV0S (Woodh.) Baird. 



Two specimens. Fort Whipple. The most abundant and characteristic spe- 

 cies of the subfamily Geomyinse, and generally distributed over northern and 

 central Arizona. It is almost wholly subterranean and nocturnal in habit. 

 The small piles of soft, moist earth, seen all over the fertile grassy portions of 

 the Territory, are thrown up by this animal in digging or extending its bur- 

 rows ; and are particularly numerous in the vicinity of clumps of oak. Two 

 other species, T. bulbivorus and T. umbrinus probably occur in southern and 

 western Arizona. 



17. Dipodomys Ordii, Woodhouse. 



Numerous specimens of this very abundant animal, the "kangaroo rat" of 

 the inhabitants ; from Fort Whipple and vicinity. This species seems suscepti- 

 ble of a semi-domestication, like the true J/«res; and, together with a species 

 of Hexperomi/s, is very common in the storehouses and granaries of Prescott 

 and Fort Whipple, where they readily produce their young. Ordinarily it 

 lives in brush heaps, under fallen logs, etc., as well as under ground. The 

 young are brought forth in May and June ; but two or more litters may be 

 produced, especially when the animals are living in places protected from the 

 weather. The young are at first nearly gray, showing little of the clear fawn 

 of the adults. The ordinary mode of progression wiih these animals is the 

 same as that of other small rodents ; but the movements upon all-fours are 

 changed to a series of vigorous leaps when the animals are alarmed. 



18. Perognath0S flavus, Baird. 



One specimen (Fort Whipple) of this rare and diminutive rodent. Two 

 other species, P parvus and P. penicillatus^ also occur. 



MURIDJE. 



MURINiE. {Sigmodontes.) 



19. Hesperomys eremicus, Baird. 



Numerous specimens, both old and young, determined to be this species by 

 Prof. Baird. It is the characteristic species of the vicinity of Fort Whipple, 

 where it is semi-domesticated, and, in a measure, plays the part of the house 

 mouse, living and breeding in numbers in buildings. Several other closely 

 allied species of tliis difficult genus probably also occur, as well as one or 

 two of the genus Reithrodon. 



20. Neotoma mexicana, Baird. 



Several examples. A very common species throughout the Territory, living 

 indifferently uuder ground or rocks, in brush heaps, or in low scrubby trees. 

 It is an important article of food with the Indians. 



1867.] 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Among the true Mures, or " Old World rats," two species have been im- 

 ported into the settlements along the Colorado River, Jilus decumanus and M. 

 musculus. Apparently, however, they have as yet hardly penetrated to the in- 

 terior of the Territory. 



ARVICOLIN^. 



21. Arvicola ? 



Fragments of an undetermined species, taken from the stomach of a large 

 hawk, shot at Whipple. The genus appears to be very poorly represented in 

 the number of its individuals as well as of its species. 



22. Fiber zibethicus, Cuvier. 



Skins, sewn together to make arrow-cases, taken from the Apache Indians. 

 The species seems to be common on some of the waters of the Territory. 



LEPORIDjE. 



23. Lepus callotis, Wagler. 



Three specimens. Fort Whipple. The "jackass rabbit," as the species is 

 called, is very abundant throughout the Territory. Believed to be the only 

 large hare ascertained to inhabit the Territory, though the occurrence of one 

 or two other species, particularly L. Californicus, may be anticipated. 



24. Lkpcs ARTEMISIA, Bachmau. 



One specimen, BealFs Springs, Western Arizona. A very abundant species 

 throughout the Territory. In the northern portions, at least, it changes its 

 pelage somewhat in winter, losing in great measure the tawny or fulvous, and 

 becoming of a grayish hue, with some parts nearly white. Such a change has 

 not been observed to take place with L. calloiis. 



25. Erethizos EPIXANTHCS, Brandt. 



One specimen, from the Colorado Chiquito, a locality where the species seems 

 to be particularly abundant. 



EUMIXANTIA. 



CER VIDJE. 



26. Cervcs macrotis, Say. 



One skin of a doe, taken in October, when the summer coat has been re- 

 placed bj' that of winter. The latter is thicker and fuller, and of a much more 

 uniform mouse-gray. At this season the antlers of the males are well-grown. 

 They differ in some essential points from those of C. virginianus. These deer 

 inhabit the open woods and chapparal. A second species, known to hunters 

 as the "white-tailed deer," occurs, but rarely. The black-tailed still continues 

 to be very abundant in all situations suited to its habits ; and its flesh and hide 

 are important items m the domestic economy of both settlers and Indians. 



27. AXTILOCAPRA AMERICANA, Ord. 



Several pairs of horns, and skins of the head, stuff'ed by the Indians to be 

 used as decoys. Both the present species and the black-tailed deer are 

 hunted by the Indians by this means. One pair of horns, taken near Fort 

 Whipple, are remarkable for the great breadth of the prong, which springs 

 from the extreme base of the shaft, and for the unusual degree of apical curva- 

 ture of the latter ; the tip being bent over until it points directly toward the 

 base of the horn, and its axis is brought quite parallel with that of the upright 

 portion. The antelope is still common on all the open plains of the central 

 and northern portions. 



28. Ovis MONTAXA, Cuvier. 



Horns of this species were often met with about the bases of cliffs and 

 precipices. The animal appears to be much less abundant now than formerly, 

 and only inhabits the most rugged and inaccessible mountainous regions. 



The butialo [Bos americanus,) which formerly inhabited the Territory, has 

 for many years been quite extinct. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



December 3(7. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-five members present. 



Dr. H. Allen exhibited ten crania from the Morton collection, in which 

 was seen the tertiary occipital condjle. This was situated in each instance 

 upon the anterior border of th^ foramen magnum, was elevated, and more or 

 less circular. It was thought the " condj-le " (i. e. facet) was the result of 

 the odontoid process of the axis extending higher, as well as the basilar 

 process being thicker than usual. These conclusions were born out by the 

 examination of a number of axes, in position, as well as disarticulated. In 

 the former it was seen that the superior fasiculus of the transverse ligament 

 often brought the apex of the process in relation to the occipital bone, even 

 when no facet was formed ; in the latter several specimens of the isolated 

 bone had been secured, showing two distinct facets upon the odontoid pro- 

 cess — the inferior one for the articulation with the atlas, — the superior for 

 the " tertiary condyle." 



The following are the measurements of the most conspicuous facets : 



996. The facet is 13 m. wide, 8 long, with irregular but well defined borders ; 

 the anterior wall is 4 m. high ; asymmetrical, — the greatest portion to the left 

 side of the median line. The»right border is furnished with anodule at its 

 posterior part. The superior surface of the basilar process is furnished with 

 a small spicule of bone. 



631. Facet 11 m. wide, 7 m. long, slightly depressed, a little fuller upon the 

 right than left side ; asymmetrical, the greater portion to the right side of 

 median line. The condyles are large with transverse constriction. 



1436. 8 ra. wide, 8 long, slightly depressed. The left side has appended to 

 its posterior part a sharply defined horn, which is curved forwards upon itself; 

 asymmetrical — almost entirely to right side of median line. Upon either side 

 of facet and immediately in front of the occipital condyle are placed two 

 rounded nodules, the right of which is the larger. Condyle not constricted. 



1460. 13 m. wide, 9 long, sides regular, anterior portion slightly elevated ; 

 a large spicula, 5 m. long, extending from superior portion of basilar process 

 downwards ; facet placed a little to the right side. 



93. 5 m. wide, 3 m. long — not depressed — walls not elevated, yet the whole 

 facet stands slightly above the level of the bone placed in median line. The 

 occipital condyles are of unequal size. The left is 24 m. long and 14 m. wide 

 at largest diameter. The right is 30 m. long, 14 wide at largest diameter, 

 while the anterior portion is much more slender than that of the opposite 

 side, running in advance of the facet ; facet in median line. 



569. The posterior part of the basi-occipital process 6 m. thick, has towards 

 its inferior surface a small circular depression measuring 5 m.X5™-) defined 

 by a sharp edge which is better marked in front than elsewhere. The entire 

 facet is to the left of the median line and entirely free from the posterior 

 border. A smaller depression, having a diameter of 2.} m., is placed upon the 

 right side upon anterior edge of the free basi-occipital border. 



December \Qth. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty members present. 



Prof. E.D. Cope made some remarks on the contents of caves which abound 

 in South-western Virginia. He stated that bones of all the recent mammalia of 

 the country, including those of the Indians, were to be found in them, and 



1867.] 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



that the process of deposit Avas continually going on. He mentioned his 

 discovery of the remains of the floor deposit of one or more extensive caves 

 in the limestone ridge in "Wythe Co., Va., which produces largely the ores of 

 lead and zinc. The roof and one side of the caves had been torn away subsequent 

 to the period of deposit of the floor. The latter was of postpliocene age, 

 and contained remains of mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fishes and 

 molluscs chiefly terrestrial. Among the first were tapir, peccary, deer, horse, 

 small carnivora, shrews and several rodents ; together, sixteen species. The 

 deposit extended eight miles in length. 



He also announced the existence of a postpliocene deposit in Charles Co.. 

 Maryland, near the Patuxent river, as indicated by the remains of the common 

 peccary, a Manatus and a new carnivore of the genus Galera. 



Decemher lltJi. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 



December 24:th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Sixteen members present. ■* 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



''A Review of the species of Amblystoma." By E. D. Cope. 



" On the Genera of fresh-water Fishes Hypsilepis, Baird, and Pho- 

 togenis, Cope, their species and distribution." By E. D. Cope. 



" On the Distribution of fresh-water Fishes in the Alleghany Region 

 of south-western Virginia." By E. D. Cope. 



" Fasti Ornithologias." No. III. By John Cassin. 



The deaths of the following members were announced : Mr. Jacob 

 Pierce and Mr. Richard M. Marshall ; also Dr. Chas. Zimmermaa and 

 Rev. Dr. C. Dewey, Correspondents. 



Decemher 31s^ 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven members present. 



On favorable reports of the Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



An addition to the VERTEBKATE FAUNA of the Miocene period, with a 

 synopsis of the extinct CETACEA of the United States. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



The species below enumerated were collected by James T. Thomas near his 

 residence in Charles county, Maryland, not far from the Patuxent river, in the 

 beds of the Yorktown epoch, in places where they are exposed by the cutting 

 of various streams. The localities are twenty miles to the eastward of the out- 

 crop of the eocene beds, and as those of the pliocene are at a considerable 

 distance eastward of the eastern shore of the Chesapeake Bay, it is scarcely 

 probable that there is any admixture of specimens from those formations. Two 

 species in the collection of Galera and Dicotyles genera at present existing in 

 South America, — the latter within our own limits also, — indicate the existence 



[ Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



139 



of a post-pliocene deposit iu tlie neighborliood, which has not been hitherto 

 recognized. 



In the miocene region, the beds of shells are of considerable thickness, and 

 are composed of immense numbers of closely packed individuals of many spe- 

 cies, in a very good state of preservation. They are, however, less silicified, 

 and therefore more friable than those of the great beds at Yorktown. 



The before-mentioned collection, which is now in the museum of the Acad- 

 emy, contained the following species of molluscs, etc., for the identification of 

 which I am indebted to my friend T. A. Conrad : 



Madrepora palmata Gold/., 



Orbicula lugubris, 



Ostrea trachydiscus, Con., sp. nov., 



Ostrea thomasii, Con., sp. nov., 



Anomia multilineata, 



Chama corticosa, 



Isognomou tortum, 



Pinna, 



Pecten madisonius, 



Pecten jetfersonius, 



Pecten humphreysii, 



Pecten marylandicus, 



Pecten clintonius, 



Pecten virginianus, 



Pecten cerinus, Con., sp. nov., 



Axinaea leutiformis, 



Area callipleura. 



Area improcera, 



Noetia carolinensis, 



Corbula idonea, 



Corbula peciorosa, Con., sp. nov., 



Cardium laqueatum, 



Isocardia markoii, 



Isocardia fraterna, 



Crasatella undulata, 



Crasatella melina, 



Crasatella marylandica, 



Cyclocardia granulata, 



Carditamera protracta, 



Astarte exaltata, 



Astarte undulata, 



Astarte cuneiformis, 



Astarte perplana, 



Mercenaria staminea, 



Merceuaria cuneata. Con., sp. nov., 



Lucina americana, 



Lucina forcmani, 



Lucina contracta, 



Dosinia acetabulum, 



Dione staminea, 



Dione marilandica, 



Pliorhytis ceutenaria, 



Sphterula subvexa, 



Metis biplicata, 



Glycimeris americanus, 



Fissurella redimicula, 



Zizyphinus bryanii. Con., sp. nov., 



Lunatia catenoides, 



Scala pachypleura, C, 



Turritella indehta, C, 



Turritella alticostata, 



Ecphora quadricostata, 



Bursa centrosa, Con., sp. nov., 



Balanus vulcanellus. Con., sp. nov., 



Balanus proteus. 



ELASMOBRANCHI. 



AETOBATIS, Miill., Henle. 



Aetobatis arcuatus, Agassiz, Poiss. Foss. iii. Gervais, Palseont. Francaise, 



Tab. 



This species, figured by Gervais, has existed in abundance during the period 



of dejiosit of the miocene beds. Two or three other species of the genus have 



left their remains in the same, which will be characterized at some future time. 



Aetobatis profundus Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is represented by numerous separated plates of the inferior den- 

 tal series. They are therefore curved, and attached to their laminiform roots 

 at a strong angle. The species was smaller than the preceding, judging by the 

 portions preserved. The band-like teeth differ in their masticatory surface 

 being convex or rounded, not plane, and having a much less projecting and 

 lip-like convex margin. Their curvature is less, and does not approach the 

 angulation of the A. arcuatus, and the width is nearly uniform at all points, 

 and not narrowed at the extremities as in the latter. The laminar portion is 

 relatively longer, having therefore a more extensive imbrication. 



1867.] 




14:0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Lines. 



Length of convexity of jjerfect tooth 2 1-5 



" of chord " " 16-75 



Depth of laminar series 6 



Width of masticatory surface 2*75 



MYLIOBATIS Cuvier. 



The following are the first species of this genus which have been determined 

 from the miocene age in the United States : 



Myliobatis gigas Cope. 



This species is remarkable for the transverse extent of its median teeth, and 

 its strong antero-posterior curvature. The latter is greater than the transverse 

 curvature, which consists in the slope of the lateral dental series aud of the 

 extremities of the median teeth. Lateral teeth longer than broad, convex, in 

 two rows. Median teeth well arched horizontally, but straight in their median 

 portions, the length one-seventh the (straight) width. 



Total length 3 in. 8 lines ; width of median series 3 in. 25 lines. Sutures 

 straight; surface smooth. (Remains of two or three individuals in the col- 

 lection.) Should the proportions of this species have been similar to those of 

 the M. a q u i 1 a of the Mediterranean, the extent of its pectoral fins would have 

 been not less than nine feet. 



Myliobatis pachyodon Cope. 



This species, also of large size, approaches near to the M. h o 1 m e s i i Gibbes, 

 and M. r e g 1 i a n u s Agassiz. It ditfers from the former in its median series 

 of teeth being transverse and scarcely curved, and in the inferior lamina? being 

 without V-like grooves ; and from tlie latter in the depth of median teeth be- 

 ing half deeper in relation to the length, and in their greater transverse con- 

 vexity. The specimen on which the species is founded consists of the lateral 

 portions of four median and tlie single row of lateral teeth. The great depth 

 of the vaso-dentinal layer is only equalled in the M. holmesii. The M. 

 stokesii Agass. and M, micropleurus Agass., which resemble it in 

 some particulars, differ in possessing two lateral series of teeth. 



The lateral teeth are larger than broad. 



Lines. 



Longitudinal width of median tooth band 5-25 



Depth of vaso-dentinal layer 7'75 



" of lamellar layer 2-75 



The transverse extent of the plate to a point which appears by the inferior 

 curvature to be the middle, is 16 lines ; the series has therefore probably been 

 narrow. 



Myliobatis vicomicaxcs Cope. 



Specimens of two individuals represent this species, which is of somewhat 

 smaller dimensions than the two preceding, though one of the large species. 

 One plate, extending over twelve median teeth, is flat autero-posteriorly, and 

 nearly so transversely; the sutures of the median teeth slightly concave medi- 

 ally, and strongly convex at their extremities. Two lateral rows of teeth, 

 which are longer than broad. Sutures straight. Vaso-dentinal layer shallow ; 

 where worn down in an old specimen, the surface is punctate all over through 

 the section of the vascular canals. 



In. Lin. 



Total length of specimen 3 2*5 



Transverse length of median teeth 2 3-75 



Length of median teeth 3-75 



Depth of vaso-dentinal stratum , 4-5 



In the preceding three species the series of attaching laminae are arranged 

 in series oblique to the base of each tooth. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 1^1 



RAJA Linnaeus. 

 Raja dcx Cope. 



This species is represented by a dermal plate, which was originally covered 

 by enamel, and probably supported a spine ; the latter, and a considerable por- 

 tion of the former, have been lost. The form is unsymmetrically subpeutago- 

 nal, longer than broad. One extremity truncate, the other obtusely narrowed. 

 Inferior surface concave flattened ; superior rising to a small median plane, 

 edges thin. Greatest elevation near the narrow extremity, where the spine 

 stood : a groove extends from the position of the latter to the margin. Surface 

 indistinctly ribbed at right angles to the margin. Enamel with slightly wavy 

 ribs, those near the centre much coarser than those near the circumference. 

 Length of plate 15 lines; greatest width 12-75 lines; greatest depth 4 lines. 

 A second plate, perhaps of the same species, differs in its narrower form ; it is 

 without enamel. 



This ray was larger than any described from European tertiary. 



NOTIDANUS Cuv. 



NoTiDAXUs PRiMiGEXius Agassiz, Gibbes. 

 Fourteen teeth. 



NOTIDANUS PLECTRODON CopC, Sp. UOV. 



This species is represented by nine teeth, which are quite characteristic It 

 presents fewer denticles than any other species, and thus approaches distantly 

 the N. re curvu s of Agassiz. Large denticles but two, leaning obliquely in 

 the plane of the root; the external denticle one-fifth the size of the median. 

 Median denticle twice as high as broad at the basis, little inclined from the 

 plane of the root; the cutting edge curved. Serrate edge very short, basal, in 

 I one specimen with no, in another four denticles. Section of root wedge- 

 shaped. 



Lines. 



Length of root 8-7o 



Elevation of longest denticle 6 



Four teeth which I refer to a median position in the jaws of this species, have 

 no lateral cusps whatever, but approximate those of some species of Lamna in 

 form. Crown rather slender, subcylindric and slightly constricted at the base 

 of the enamel, which is convex vertically and transversely at that point. This 

 convexity is very strong to the apex of the tooth : the other side is still more 

 convex. The crown is also very oblique in one or both directions. It is per- 

 fectly smooth, with lateral cutting edges. The latter disappears on the inner 

 basis of the largest and most curved specimen. The enamel does not descend 

 low on the outer face in the largest specimens. Tip little compressed ; narrowed. 

 Greatest length, 8-25 1. ; of crown, 6-25; of root transversely, 6 1. 



GALEOCERDO Mull., Henle. 



Galeocerdo appendiculatus Agass. 

 Galeocerdo latidens Agass. 

 Galeocebdo aduncus Agassiz. 

 Galeocerdo contortus Gibbes. 

 Galeocerdo egertoni Agass. 

 Galeocerdo ? sp. aff. contorto. 



Galeocerdo l.bvissimus Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is indicated by a large number of teeth. It is of the type of G. 

 aduncus, but is characterized by the shortness of the root transversely as 

 compared with the elevation of the crown, the convexity of the inner face of 

 tlie latter, and the total absence of denticulations in any portion. The crown 

 is oblique, the inner margin vertical in nearly all the specimens, the basal cut- 



1867.] 




142^ 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ting edges short. The upper margin is not turned outwards, as in G. c o n t o r- 

 tus Gibbes, and the section of boih inner and outer faces everywhere convex. 

 Base of the enamel inside either convex or plane ; outer basis rising on the 

 crowu. Axis of medium spec. 5-25 1. Transverse extent of same, 6-75 1. 



The apex of the crown is not nearly so oblique as in G. a d u n c u s, though 

 the specimens are, as in other species, more or less oblique or depressed, accord- 

 ing to the position in the mouth. The species appears to be well marked. 



SPHYRXA Kafin. 

 Sphyrna prisca Agass. 

 Sphyrsa ? spec. 

 Sphy'rxa magna Cope. 



This species resembles in its dentition a small Oxyrhina, with the basal por- 

 tion much prolonged laterally, and crenate. The crown in the specimens is 

 slightly to markedly oblique, rather narrow and stout, slightly bent outwards, 

 with sharp, and entirely smooth cutting edges. Both faces are convex, the 

 outer much so, the inner with a slight groove at base. The root rather short, 

 slightly concave below, and prominent behind. The basal portion bounding 

 the least angle is separated by an incised notch. One specimen is larger, more 

 oblique, and with longer basis. Total elevation of medium specimen 7 lines ; 

 basis of same 6'5 lines. Larger specimen, axis, 7-8 lines; basis, 9 lines. 



HEMIPRISTIS Agass. 

 Hemipristis serra Agass. 



CARCHARODON Smith. 



CaRCHARODON ? ANGUSTIDENS AgaSS. 



Carcharodon megalodon Agass. 



OTODUS Agass. 

 Otodts obliquus Agass. 



OtODCS APPEXDICULATrS Agass. 



OXYRHINA Agass. 

 Oxyrhina xiphodon Agass. 

 Oxyrhina hastalis Agass. 

 Oxyrhina desorii Gibbes. 

 Oxyrhina sillimanii Gibbes. 

 Oxyrhina minuta Agass. 



LAMXA Cuvier. 

 Lamna hope: Agass. 

 Lamna denticulata Agass. 

 Lamna elegans Agass. 

 Lamna cdspidata Agass. 

 Lamna ? subulata Agass. 



TELEOSTEI. 

 SPHYR.ENA Cuv. 

 Sphyr.ena speciosa Leidy, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1856, p. 221, 



TESTUDINATA. 



TRIONYX GeofiFr. 

 Tbionyx cellulosus Cope. 



Two small fragments of the carapace are all that represent this species. The 

 sculpture is, however, exceedinglv characteristic, and different from that of any 

 either recent or fossil species known to the writer, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1^3 



The surface is marked by numerous closely placed pits, which are remarka- 

 bly deep, producing the vesicular appearance of scoria. The resemblance is 

 heightened by the irregular size of the pits. Edges of septa rounded. The 

 fragments are unusually thick, indicating a species of large size. 



Lines. 



Width of free portion of rib at origin 7-5 



Depth of portion of carapace 4-33 



Trionyx sp. 



An uncharacteristic portion of the carapace, which exhibits larger and more 

 regular pits, separated by wider partitions. The pits at one extremity are 

 larger than those of the other, and the septa narrower. 



CHELONE Brongt. 

 Chelone sp. 



A proximal portion of the costal plate has a thickness of three lines, but 

 rapidly thins out. Its surface exhibits transverse rugaj at its proximal extre- 

 mity ; elsewhere the rugaj are longitudinal, and more distinct on one side than 

 the other. 



Cheloxe sp. 



Two fragments of the carapace of a large and convex species, each with a 

 strongly marked groove for the margin of the dermal shields. The surface is 

 without sculpture. 



CROCODILIA. 



THECACHAMPSA Cope. 

 This genus resembles Crocodilus L., but differs in the entire hollowness of 

 the external stratum of the crowns of the teeth, and their composition of closely 

 adherent concentric cones. These internal cones, which number at least three, 

 may be homologous with the included crowns of the successional teeth of 

 other Crocodilia, but they must be regarded as functional in a physiological 

 sense, since they compose the bulk of the crown of the tooth, within. They 

 resemble in this respect Mosasaurus, and probably represent a genus near the 

 Mosasauridaj. In none of the specimens at my disposal is the root preserved, 

 though the width of the basal margin of the crown in T. c o n t u s o r indicates 

 its probable existence. 



Thecachampsa contusor Cope. 



This species is established on a single tooth. It is remarkable for its short 

 conic form. The basis is circular, and its diameter is three-fifths the lengtli of 

 the tooth. The apex is rather acute and circular in section; it is directed to 

 one side, and the tooth is slightly flattened on the inside of the curve. This 

 face is bounded by a low obtuse ridge on each side, for the basal two-thirds of 

 the crown, which are not distinguishable from a series of ridges which mark, 

 at distances of a line, the basal three-fifths round the crown; they are less dis- 

 tinct on the convex aspect, and are separated by concave surface. Instead 

 of the cutting ridges of the genus Crocodilus, the apex is provided with a 

 narrow flattened plane on each side. The surface of this portion, and of much 

 of the convex face, is marked by a minute decussating or chevroned sculpture. 

 Vertical length, 14-5 lines; diameter of base of crown, 8-5 lines. 



Thecachampsa sericodon Cope. 



This species is based on a number of specimens of elongate conic crowns 

 which resemble to a considerable extent those of Crocodilus a n t i q u u s Leidj', 

 of the same epoch. They difl'er from the T. c o n tu s o r in their more com- 

 pressed and elongate form, the presence of a sub-acute ridge on each side the 

 apical three-fifths the crown, the absence of the lateral grooves, and the chev- 

 ron sculpture. They are, on the contrary, minutely striate, and possess a silky 

 lustre. 



Length of medium specimen, lG-5 lines; base of crown, 9 lines. 



1867.] 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



CETACEA. 



Premising that a number of species whose remains occur in the present col- 

 lection must, for the present, be passed by, I append a list of the extinct Ceta- 

 ceans described from North American formations, up to the present time ; 



BAL.ENID^^. 



Bal.enoptera prisca Leidy, Cope, miocene. Pr. A. N. S. 1851, 308. 

 EscHRiCHTius CEPHALUS Copc, mioccue. 



ESCHRICHTIUS LEPTOCENTRUS CopC, mioCCUe. 



? Bal/EXA pal.eatlantica Leidy, miocene. Pr. A. N. S. 1851, 308. 



DELPHINID^E. 



Beluga vermoxtana Thompson, Champlain. Nat. Hist. Vermont. 

 Delphinus conradi Leidy, miocene. Pr. A. N. S. 1853, 35. 

 Lophocetus calvertensis Harlan, Cope, miocene. Trans. Nat. Acad. 

 Priscodelphincs harlani Leidy, miocene. Pr. A. N. S. 1851, 327. 

 Priscodelphincs acdtidens Cope, miocene. 



Priscodelphinus grand^vus Leidy, miocene. Pr. A. N. S. 1851,327. 

 Rhabdosteus latiradix Cope, miocene. 



CATODONTWjE. 



Orycterocetus corkutidens Leidy, miocene. Pr. A. N. S. 1853, 378. 

 Orycterocetcs CR0C0D1LINU.S Copc, mioccne. 

 Physeter axtiquus Leidy, pliocene. Pr. A. N. S. 1853, 378. 

 Ontocetus emmossii Leidy, miocene. Pr. A.N. S. 1859, 162. 



CYyroRciD.E. 



Cy^norca proterva Cope, miocene. 



Squalodon debilis Cope, pliocene. 



Squalodon WYMANii Cope, miocene. 



Squalodon mento Cope, miocene. 



Squalodon holmesii Leidy, pliocene. 



Squalodon atlanticus Leidy, miocene. ~^ 



BASILOSAVRID.E. 



DORYODON PYGMAEUS CopC, COCCne. 



DoRY'ODON SERRATUS Gibbcs, eoceue. 

 Basilosaurus cetoides Geinitz, eocene. 



Descriptions and notes on many of the preceding are given below. 

 ORYCTEROCETUS Leidy. 



This genus differs from Physeter in the extensive pulp-cavity of the teeth, 

 and the absence of surface cementum. 



Orycterocetus crocodilinus Cope. 



This species is based on a tooth belonging to an individual of one-third or 

 one-fourth the size of the known species 0. cornutidens Leidy, but never- 

 theless adult, as attested by the obliquely worn apex of the crown. The general 

 form is that of an elongate curved cone, with flattened sides, and a broader 

 convex face within the curve, and a narrower one on the outside. The tooth 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 145 



is marked by numerous irregular transverse lines, similar to those frequently 

 marking growth, and by longitudinal shallow grooves. The pulp-cavity ex- 

 tends for two-thirds the'length of the tooth, being thus relatively deeper than 

 in the known species, and is also very large, thinning the external wall out to 

 an open basis. In the known species the walls are relatively thicker, and for 

 a considerable distance parallel to each other. The form of the tooth is in 

 some degree similar to the crown of the canines of some crocodiles. There is 

 no enamel on the teeth of Cetaceans of this genus. 



Total length, 2 inches 5 lines; long diameter at base, 8-25 lines; diameter 

 at middle, 6 lines. 



RHABDOSTEUS Cope. 

 This genus is either referable to a family not yet characterized, allied to the 

 Platanistidie and Delphinidaj, or belongs to the first named of these recent 

 families. 



Prem axillary and maxillary bones forming a cylinder, bearing teeth on its 

 proximal portion, and prolonged in its distal portion into a slender straight 

 beak. Teeth with the enlarged crown separated from the fang by a con- 

 striction. 



This is one of the most remarkable genera of Cetaceans, and may be com- 

 pared to its affines as Xiphias is to other Teleostei. 

 Rhabdostecs latiradix Cope. 



A portion of the muzzle of this species, which is preserved, measures 12 in. 

 7-5 lines in length, 12-5 lines in transverse, and 11 lines in vertical diameter 

 at the base. The superior edge of the maxillary bone forms the extersal out- 

 line, while the remainder of this element is entirely inferior. The palatine face 

 is convex, and the alveolar series approximated. The alveola? themselves are 

 longitudinal, two in 75 of an inch, and separated from each other by spongy 

 septa. The vomer does not appear in the portion of the muzzle at my disposal. 



Lines. 



Width of premaxillary 6 



" superior face maxillary 4-75 



" palatine face of maxillary 4-5 



Three teeth are referred, with much probability, to this species. The fangs 

 are from equal to to twice the length of the crowns, and are much compressed, 

 widening downwards, and more or less prolonged at one inferior angle, in the 

 same plane. The crown, compressed transversely to the root, and expanded 

 above the base, straight or slightly curved in the direction of its plane. 

 Enamel smooth, edges obtuse. The compressed fang corresponds to the longi- 

 tudinal alveolus, while the transverse dilatation of the crown is similar to the 

 form of those of Platanista. 



Lines. 



Length of largest specimen 12 



" " crown 5 



Width of fang 3 



Jas. T. Thomas, the discoverer of this Cetacean, tells me that he has seen 

 portions of the muzzle between two and tliree feet long. From the gradual 

 acumination of the individual here described, the length of the muzzle alone 

 might have been at least of that length. A slender piece, evidently a portion 

 of the premaxillary of a smaller individual, is fourteen inches in length. Its 

 posterior portion is deflected, as if to give plaCe to the prenarial triangle, and 

 its inner margin descends abruptly to the same. 



PRISCODELPHINUS Leidj-. 

 In this genus the muzzle is elongate and flattened, and furnished with cylin- 

 drical fanged teeth, which extend throughout much or all of its length. The 

 symphysis mandibuli is very elongate. The teeth have not been described. 

 Delphinus canaliculatus von Meyer, from the Swiss Tertiary, appears to 

 belong to it. (Palseontographica, 1856, p. 44). 



1867.] 10 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Priscodelphints acutidens Cope. 



This species is represented bj- a single tootli, which is apparently that of an 

 adult of much smaller size than either of the known species of the genus. The 

 fang is straight, fusiform, and cylindrical in section. It is constricted imme- 

 diately below the crown. The latter is curved conic, the face within the curve 

 bounded on each side by a low but acute ridge, which extends from near the 

 acute apex to near the base. Enamel polished, smooth. Extremity of fang 

 acute, solid. 



Total length 7 lines; length crown 3-2 lines; diameter of base crown 1.4 

 lines. 



LOPHOCETUS Cope. 



Temporal fossa truncated by a horizontal crest above, prolonged backwards 

 and bounded by a projecting crest, which renders the occipital plane concave. 

 The same crest prolonged upwards and thickened, each not meeting that of 

 the opposite side, but continued on the inner margins of the maxillary bones, 

 turning outwards and ceasing opposite the nares. Front, therefore, deeply 

 grooved. Premaxillaries separated by a deep groove. Teeth with cylindric 

 roots. 



LoPHOCETUS CALVERTENSis. Delpkinus calvertensis Harlan. Pontoporia calvertemis 

 Cope, Proc. Acad. 1866. 



This species is near to the Pontoporias, but differs as above, so as to be 

 referable to another genus. The form of the occiput indicates the insertion of 

 powerful muscles, a condition which does not exist in any of the true Cetacea 

 within the knowledge of the writer, excepting in Inia and in Arionius, von 

 Meyer, from the Swiss Miocene. The latter genus resembles it also in the su- 

 perior truncation of the temporal fossae, but here all similarity ceases, for in 

 Arionius the frontal bones are well developed, while in Lojjhocetus they are, 

 as in true Delphinidte, mere narrow transverse wedges. They are, indeed, 

 much less developed than in Pontoporia, or even than in Inia. 



The resemblance to Inia is closest. The only feature which renders a gene- 

 ric distinction certain is the cylindric form of the posterior alveola;, which 

 renders it probable that the teeth were not furnished with lobes as in Inia. In 

 the latter the fangs have a transverse dilatation to support these. Harlan also 

 states that but one and a half inches of the muzzle are broken away. If this 

 be the case, the genus is short-muzzled and with the symphysis mandibuli not 

 elongate. This is, however, exceediugly doubtful. 



In Lophocetus calvertensis the nasal bones are separated by a deep fis- 

 sure. The maxillaries exhibit, on each side in front of the external nares, two 

 oval, roughened surfaces, which converge behind the nares. These appear to 

 be insertions, perhaps for cartilaginous crests, comparable to the bony roofs of 

 Platanista, less probably, for muscles connected with the external meatus. 



The form of the muzzle is not as elongate as in the known species of Ponto- 

 poria, and it is much expanded, proximally, instead of contracted, as in the 

 latter. 



This dolphin approximated the larger white whales (Beluga) in size. 



ESCHRICHTITJS Gray. 



The genus Megaptera Gray embraces species of large size, living in the 

 recent seas, known as the hump-backed whales. There are six species known, 

 from different seas, of which one, Megaptera o s p h y i a Cope, occurs on the 

 Atlantic coast of the United States. An examination of some specimens of 

 periotic bones and vertebrae, from near Yorktown, Virginia, first indicated to 

 the writer the existence of a supposed species of -the genus, in the Miocene 

 period, and it was mentioned in these Proceedings, 1865, 180. In the present 

 collection the remains of an allied or the same species are preserved. These 

 are, the premaxillary bones, nearly complete ; the rami of the mandible, nearly 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



perfect ; the first, third, fourth, fifth and seventh cervical vertebrae ; several 

 caudal and lumbosacral vertebrae, humerus, ulna, carpal bones and phalanges. 

 The attachment of the epiphyses everywhere, indicate an adult animal. 



In the genus Megaptcra the transverse processes and the parapophyses of 

 the second and succeeding cervical vertebrae are always separate, and not 

 united at their extremities. Those of the second are usually very broad at 

 their origins. The gular region is folded, and there is a knob on the back, 

 representing the dorsal fin of the fiuner whales. 



The above-named specimens, however, appear to belong to the genus Esch- 

 richtius, recently' established by Dr. Gray. It is near to Megaptera, differing 

 technically in the presence of an acromion* on the scapula. As this piece is 

 wanting, I rely on another feature pointed out by Gray, the great size of the 

 neural canal, as compared with the vertebral centra. In the fin-backed whales, ^ 

 Balaenoptera (Balpenoptera and Physalus Gray), this author states its diameter 

 to be not more than half that of the body ; in the specimens before me it mea- 

 sures from six-sevenths to over two-thirds the latter, thus resembling the 

 Eschrichtius robustus. It also exhibits the same affinity by the small size 

 of the coronoid process. 



Before considering the species from the Thomas collection, another species 

 previously represented in our Museum may be noticed. 



This, a second cervical vertebra from the Miocene of Eastern VLi-ginia, dif- 

 fers from that of any known species in the slenderness and depressed form of 

 its parapophyses, and in its transversely parallelogrammic form. It is without 

 epiphyses, and is therefore part of a young animal, but when compared with 

 the third cervical of the adult specimen above alluded to, is considerably 

 larger. The vertical depth is the same in the two, but the transverse diameter 

 of the Virginia specimen is 1-5 inches greater. The parapophyses are also 

 nearly transverse in the latter ; in the Maryland specimen, directed downward 

 at 45° from the horizontal. I record it at present as — 



Eschrichtius leptocentrcs Cope, 



Since it is not likely to have pertained to the species already described 

 by Leidy, Babenoptera prise a and Bahena p al £? a tl an t i c a. The former 

 was described from a portion of a mandibular ramus, which, when restored, 

 would have measured 4-75 feet in length, giving a total length of 21 feet. As 

 there are no evidences of immaturity in the specimen, it is probable that its 

 size was not greater than, if as great as, the existing Bala;noptera r o s t r a t a.f 

 Its affinity to this species is confirmed by the slender proportions, and great 

 external convexity of the ramus. Its superior and inferior aspects are broad 

 and nearly similar. The species is well distinguished. The B. p al a; a 1 1 an- 

 tica is based on a portion of the mandible of an individual of not more than 

 thirty-five feet in length. The inner face is more convex than in the last, and 

 more so than in any known Megaptera. It also presents the peculiarity of two 

 rows of vascular foramina, closely approximated on each side of the superior 

 median ridge ; this has not been observed in that genus or Eschrichtius. 



The species from Maryland is near thirty-five feet long, according to the usual 

 estimate. The E. leptocentrus has no doubt attained a considerably greater 

 size, since its cervical vertebra is longer, and is that of a young individual. 

 It will not be unsafe to ascribe to it a length of 50 feet. 



In. Lin. 



Transverse extent of centrum 6 



Vertical diameter..... 4 



Length of body (below, with epiphyses restored) 1 8-75 



Distance between origins of dia- and parapophyses 2 3 



* The genus Poescopja (!) Gray, established for hump-Vjacked whales with a cnraeoid pro- 

 fess, does not seem to ditfer from Megaptera, where that process sometinios occurs. 



t A fine specimen of this species, over 30 feet long, went ashore during the autumn of 

 18GC, on the Long Beach, N. J. It was much injured, probably by the killers. This spe- 

 cies has not been before noticed on our coasts. 



1867.] 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



In. Lin. 



Vertical depth odontoid elevation (under epiphysis) 2 5 



Superior width " " " " 1 10 



Diameter base of dia- and neurapophysis 7-5 



" neural canal (in pan estimated) 4 10 



EscHRiCHTirs CEPHALUS Cope, sp. nov. 



The species whose remains are above alluded to as having been preserved 

 by Jas. T. Thomas. 



The atlas of this species most nearly resembles among existing Cetaceans 

 the Balaenoptera rostrata, in the width of the neural canal above, and the 

 inferior position of the diapophysis and cotyloid articular face. That most 

 essential point, the form of the dia- and parapophj-ses of the second cervical, 

 not being attainable, owing to the absence of that piece, it becomes necessary 

 to decide on the real relations to the B. rostrata on other grounds. The 

 lack of elevated coronoid process of the mandible contradicts this affinity, 

 while the narrowness and steeply descending angle of the parapophyses of the 

 third cervical render it very improbable that the dia- and parapophyses of the 

 second were united, if they observed their usual parallelism. This is confirmed 

 by the fact that they are not united in the E. robustus Lillg. ; though the 

 parapophyses of the third have in it an almost transverse direction. 



This species may be compared with the known species of this genus, and of 

 Megaptera, as follows : 



The third and fourth cervical vertebrae exhibit the quadrate form attributed 

 to the E. robustus and M. lalandii, and the above-described E. 1 e p- 

 tocentrus. The form of the centra inM. longimana and M. o s p h y i a 

 is more ovate. 



The parapophyses of the third cervical are flattened in the plane of the cen- 

 trum; their axes are continuous with those of the combined dia- and neurapo- 

 physes, and the connecting lines cross at a superior angle of 50°. In the E. 

 robustus these processes have a transverse direction, according to Lilje- 

 borg. In the fourth cervical of the miocene species, the parapophyses have a 

 still more vertical direction. The fifth and seventh cervicals are prominently 

 rounded below, a feature not seen in the M. lalandii and E. robustus, 

 and neither of them possess parapophyses. The floor of the neural canal is 

 convex in all the cervicals. most strongly in the posterior. In E. robustus 

 it is plane in (^ray and Lillgeborg's figures ; they are similar in the E. 1 e p t o - 

 centrus and in the Megaptera. The neural arches are more or less broken 

 away, but enough remains in the third to give the width of the neural canal. 

 The diapophyses of the fifth and seventh are directed backwards, and the 

 bodies of all are convex in the same direction. 



The atlas is notable for the want of a neural spinous crest, and in the infe- 

 rior position and obliquity of the cotyloid cavity. The latter are separated by 

 an inch below ; in the same interval behind there is a transverse, very obtuse 

 tuberculum atlantis. The inferior portion of the perforation, or foramen dentati, 

 is much narrower than the neural arch. 



In. Lin. 



Vertical depth of atlas 6 5-3 



" " " perforation 3 9 



Total width of atlas (exclus. diapophysis) 8 2 



" " " articular cotylus 3 8 



Greatest transverse thickness atlas above 2 4-5 



The diapophysis is compressed, its base oblique, descending in front. The 

 neural arch on each side is at right angles to the long diameter of the articu- 

 lar faces. 



In. Lin. 



Diameter of centrum third cervical 4 7 



" •' parapophysis at base 1 2-5 



" " neur. diapophysis at base 1 2-5 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Diameter of neural canal (greatest) 4 



Depth centrum 4 1 



Length " 95 



Transve'rse diameter of fifth cervical 4 9 



" " " neur. diapophysis 1 6*5 



Vertical " .' 4 5-5 



Length centrum 10-5 



Transverse diameter seventh cervical 5 3 



" " neur. diapophysis 1 8 



Vertical " centrum 4 5 



Length centrum 1 2 



" " of an interior caudal 5 2 



Vertical diameter of anterior face 4 9 



Transverse " " " " 5 7-5 



Height neural spine (worn) I 7-5 



Length diapophysis (-worn) 1 7-5 



Width of inferior concavity 1 8 



The caudal vertebra measured has the elongate form of those of the Balae- 

 nopteras, and two strong inferior ridges, separated by each other by a deeper, 

 and from the diapophyses by a shallower concavity. 



A considerable portion of both premaxillary bones preserved shows an elon- 

 gate muzzle ; their form is narrow, especially towards their distal extremity, 

 where they are much flattened ; for a short distance posterior to that point they 

 are subcylindrical and grooved. 



Ft. In. 



Length preserved (proximal end wanting) 6 8 



"Width near proximal end 3-5 



" " distal 2-5 



The mandibular rami are massive, moderately curved, and considerably 

 compressed, especially on their distal fourth. The interior face is everywhere 

 nearly flat, the exterior convex ; the superior ridge is rather acute ; the infe- 

 rior aspect obtuse, narrow. A series of large distant vascular foramina extend 

 along the outer face some distance below the superior ridge. The coronoid 

 processes have been broken off; their bases would indicate that thej' were 

 compressed, and not elevated. 



Ft. In. 



Length of jaw to opposite coronoid 1 0-5 



Total length (restored after E. robustus) 9 4-5 



Depth one foot from extremity 4-8 



" two feet in advance coronoid proc 8 



The great length of the ramus as compared with the ,«ize of the cervical ver- 

 tebrae is a remarkable feature. In two not distantly related species, following, 

 they are : 



Diam. vertebrae. Ramus. Total. 



Eschrichtius robustus (3d c.) 8-75 in. 8f. 2 in. 47 



Megaptera longimana (1st d.) 8'5 10-7 34-6 



Eschrichtius cephalus (7th c.) 5-25 9-4 31 



The"proportion of the last cervical to the ramus is probably one-fourth less 

 in the new species than in the second-named, and it might therefore be sup- 

 posed that the head would bear a greater proportion to the total length than 

 in Megaptera longimana, and thus approach the Balwna mysticetus. 

 This great proportion is reduced by the indications furnished by posterior vcr- 

 tebraj which have the elongate form of those of the Bahcnoptera?. This point 

 being opposed to the other, it seems probable that the proportions most nearl)- 

 approached those of the B. longimana, as above estimated, and tliat while 

 this Cetacean possessed a larger head than the Eschrichtius robustus, its 

 absolute length was less. 



The form of the anterior limb presents us with a striking peculiarity of this 



1867.] 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



species. It was remarkably short, approaching the species of Bala;na, and 

 differing from E. robustu s, still more from the Sibbaldii and Balajnopterfe, 

 and most from Megaptera 1 o n g i m a n a. 



• In. Lin. 



Length humerus 11 8 



Leastwidth 4 4 



Distal " 5 3 



Length radius (straight line) 15 5 



Proximal width , 3 6 



Distal " 4 



The humerus is flattened in one plane, and has an elevation near the middle 

 of the infero-posterior margin, for muscular insertion. The shortness of the 

 limb is a consequence of the small size of the radius and ulna. 



Two carpals and one phalange are preserved. The former are as deep as 

 wide, oval ; one longer, and composed of two united centres of ossification. 



In. Lin. 



Length of longest carpal 2 6 



" " phalange 3 2 



Width " " 2 3 



In conclusion it may be asserted that a rather more than usually fortunate 

 coincidence in the preservation of important parts of the skeleton has enabled 

 the writer to explain with some degree of accuracy the characteristics of this 

 monster of the deep, almost the largest mammal of the miocene period yet 

 known, but few of whose fellow leviathans have been as yet indicated by 

 fragments only. 



SQUALODON Grateloup. 



Van Beneden Ac. Roy. Belg. 18G5. Fhocodon Agass., Crenidelphinus Laurill. 



Macrophoca Leidy, JJelphinoides Pedroni, Champsodelphis Gervais. 



This remarkable genus of Cetaceans, at one time supposed to be identical 

 with the Basilosaurus (Harlan), has recently been greatly elucidated by the 

 investigations of Prof. Van Beneden of the University of Louvain. The 

 discovery of remains of more than one allied species in the neighborhood of 

 Antwerp was the immediate stimulant to these researches. Jourdan and Van 

 Beneden have proven the distinctness of this genus from Basilosaurus, in its 

 much shorter cranial cavity, and posteriorly placed nasal meatus. The nasal 

 bones arc abbreviated and flattened, as in the whales, while those of the Basi- 

 losauri are elongate, prolonging the nasal meatus, and throwing the nares far 

 anteriorly. The latter thus approximate the Pinnipedia, while the Squalo- 

 dons are more typical Cetaceans. 



The present collection contains remains to be attributed to this genus, and 

 which will be made subjects of illustration. At present a brief notice of den- 

 tal features will sufiice. 



A considerable amount of variation among teeth situate in difiTerent posi- 

 tions in the jaws of the same species, has been shown in the above mentioned 

 essay to exist. In consequence, remains, assigned by authors to various 

 o-enera, have been, with much probability, referred to the genus Squalodon.* 

 The same erroneous references had also been made in this country, but to a less 

 extent. The remains on which these, and the present notices are based, indi- 

 cate much paralellism between the marine faunae of the coasts of America and 

 Europe, during the Yorktown Epoch. 



Remains of nine individuals at my disposal indicate several species of this 

 genus. They may be compared as follows with those already known. 



* Prof. Van Beneden adopts this name, and rejects that of Basilosaurus for Harlan'.s 

 aenus, probably on the ground of the ill application of the latter to a genus of mammals. 

 The application of the name Squalodon is, however, even more faulty, and it has not the 

 merit of cia&sic composition, like Basilosaurus. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



I. Molars with two roots. 



** Premolars with short conic crowns. 

 Premolars compressed, cutting. 



Roots of premolars compressed S. protervus. 



Promolars not compressed, bent. 

 Size small. 



Premolars with crowns bent S. wymanii. 



Size large. 

 Extremity of mandible much recurved ; alveolae supe- 

 rior S. mento. 



Extremity of mandible little recurved; alveolae lateral. ...S. grateloupii. 

 ** Premolars with elongate conic crowns. 

 Enamel of premolars smooth. 



Roots of premolars very long S. holmesii. 



Enamel of premolars ridged or striate. 

 Premolars striate ; muzzle short, broad ; molars serrate 



on both edges S. ehrlichii. 



Premolars ridged ; muzzle long, slender ; molars serrate 



on both edges (except one or two anterior.) S. atlanticus. 



Premolars ridged ; muzzle long, slender ; molars serrate 



only on the posterior edge S. antverpiensis. 



II. Molars (or a portion of them) with three roots. 



Denticules on the posterior edge onlv, step. like S. gervaisii. ^ 



Of the above species, the two rooted molars of S. protervus, S. 

 wymanii, S. mento, and S. holmesii are unknown. It is, however, 

 altogether probable, from the usual correlation with the form of the molar 

 teeth, that there are three genera included in the preceding synopsis. Prof. 

 Van Beneden states that probably the S. gervaisii will be found to per- 

 tain to an unnamed genus. Of this there is as yet little evidence, as the 

 character of the three roots is not seen in a second molar figured by Gervais. 

 The remaining species may be arranged as follows : 



Cynorca Cope, sp. C. proterva Cope. 



Squalodon Grateloup, sp. S. mento Cope, S. wymanii Leidy, S. 

 grateloupii Von Meyer. 



CoLOPHONODON Leidy, C. holmesii Leidy, C. e h rl i c h i i Van Beneden, 

 C. atlanticus Leidy and C. antverpiensis Van Beneden. 



Lastly, may be added the gigantic ally of the above, described by Von 

 Meyer and Van Beneden, 



Stenodon Van Ben. S. lentianus Von Meyer. 



Squalodon protervus Cope. 



This species is represented in the collection by a single canine tooth, which 

 presents the usual small crown and broad fang of the Cetacea. The fang is, 

 however, shorter than in any homologous teeth in the other two genera above 

 named and, with the crown, very much compressed in one plane. A shallow 

 groove extends on each side of it to the narrowed and flattened truncate base. 

 The tootii is wiilest at the middle of the fang ; the crown is rapidly acuminate, 

 narrow lenticular in section, and furnished with a rather tliickened postero- 

 internal cutting edge. The anterior or external aspect is worn away by the 

 attrition of a corresponding tooth, but was obtuse, and furnished with a 

 longitudinal ridge on each side at the base of the crown. The surface of the 

 enamel is rugose, more minutely on one side than on the other. The tooth is 

 considerably curved. While the enamel is polished, the fang is roughened 

 and opaque. 



1867.] 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



In. Lin. 



Total length on middle 1 10.5 



Length of crown 



Width at base of crown 4-5 



" " middle of fang 5.25 



The length of the root of this tooth renders it improbable that it was a 

 transitional molar, that is, intervening between the premolars and molars. Two 

 teeth, having crowns similarly though rather more symmetrically formed, are 

 in the Academy Museum, and these 1 suspect to have occupied that position. 

 The present is more likely to have been an elongate tooth near the position 

 usually occupied in Mammalia by the canines. There can be little doubt that 

 the genus Cynorca, to which I refer it, will turn out to be well characterized. 

 The tooth of a closely allied animal is figured by Giebel, Odontographia 

 xxxvi, 10, H, 14, after Von Meyer. I have not been able to find the descrip- 

 tion of it, if existing. 



Squalodon wymaxii m. Phoca wymanii Leidy. Proceedings Academy N. Sci. 

 1856, 265. 



Of this, the smallest species of the genus, three premolar teeth are in the 

 collection, and the type specimen is in the Academy's Museum. The teeth are 

 remariiable for the abrupt posterior direction of their crowns. The roots are 

 curved, one of them abruptly so, and flattened. 



Squalodon mexto Cope. Cetacean, Wyman, Amer. Jour. Sci. Arts, 1850, 

 230-232, figs. 4, 5, 6, 7. 



Tliis species is represented by four premolar teeth. The fang in these is 

 thickest just below the base of the crown. No. 1 has a conic slightly curved 

 crown, oval in section ; it is grooved on the sides and minutely rugose elsewhere. 

 The fang is polished, compressed, slightly curved in two directions, and 

 grooved on its sides, one, the strongest, on the inner side of a curve and con- 

 tinuous with the grooving of the crown. At the base of the crown, on the side 

 of the groove, is as light swelling. In Nos. 2, 3 and 4 the fangs are rugose, in 

 No. 2 more cylindrical and slightly grooved laterally with open pulp cavity. 

 Nos. 3 and 4 exhibit this cavitj^ closed — in No. 4 by a distinct bony plug, and 

 their fangs are much curved. In No. 3 the crown is smaller and more conic 

 than in No. 1 ; it is rugose and furnished with a delicate continuous ridge on 

 the outer and inner borders of its incurved plane. In No. 4 the crown is as 

 broad at the basis as No. 1, but is much less elevated, and abruptly recurved. 

 It is subtrihedral in form, and is provided with a distinct tube at the base, 

 behind the recurvature. The anterior outline of the crown forms the quad- 

 rant of a circle ; it bears arugulose cutting ridge, which is continued from the 

 acuminate apex over the tubercle. 



Lines. 



Length No. 1 23-5 



" " crown (restored)., 7-5 



" No. 3 25-5 



'• " crown 7- 



" No. 4 22 5 



" " crown 6-5 



Width " " at base 5-25 



No. 1 approximates in position the transitional molar. A tooth, perhaps 

 occupying that place or the next, has been figured by Dr. Wyman (Supra fig 4), 

 as belonging to the genus Phocodon Agass.* The anterior premolars and a 

 portion of the mandible, no doubt belonging to the same species, are figured 

 in the same place as above. They belong to an animal much smaller than 

 that to which the teeth above described pertain, and it is a matter of some 

 question whether these specimens do not rather relate to the S. wymanii 

 Leidy. The teeth, however, do not exhibit that abrupt flexure of the crown 



» It also bear.s much resemblance to those of the recent Inia. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 158 



seen in the latter species. These premolar teeth bear considerable resemblance 

 to those of the genus Otaria, and explain the reference of several of the 

 species to seals by (xervais. Leidy and others. 



If the S. m e n t o be as I suppose, nearly allied to the S. g r a t e 1 o u p i i , 

 it differs in the more recurved extremity of the symphysis, and the more verti- 

 cal direction of the teeth. This comparison is, however, based upon the 

 determination of Van Beneden, that the mandible figured by Gervais as 

 Champsodelphis macrogenius (from Leognan near Bordeaux) really belongs to 

 the Sq. g r a t el o u pi i . A portion of maxillary and premaxillary bones with 

 teeth, said by Gervais to belong to the former, obviously does not relate to the 

 latter; hence the probability of the existence of another species to be called 

 Sq. macrogenius. The teeth named by Gervais as Phoca pedronii and 

 r/ioca sp. (Tab. viii f. 8) are evidently those of a species allied to Sq. m e n t o m. 

 Relying then on Van Beneden's determination, the Sq. grateloupiiis more 

 nearly allied to the two preceding species in the lack of long conical premolars 

 and canine -like teeth, than it is to the species included here under the head of 

 Colophonodon. In the latter these weapons are of great length and strength, 

 and the anterior, according to Van Beneden, may be called small tusks. A 

 species still smaller than the S. w y m a n i i has been described by Leidy as Phoca 

 debilis, from the Pliocene of Ashley River of S. Carolina. It will no doubt be 

 found to be allied to Squalodon (vid. Pr. A. N. S. Phil. 1856, 265). 



Squalodon holmesii Leidy M. S.* Colophonodon holmesii Leidy. Proceedings 

 Academy 1853, p. 377. 



The size of this species was probably near that of the S. men to, and 

 smaller than that of the S. a 1 1 a n t i c u s. Its geologic position is supposed 

 to be the pliocene, while the other species of the genus have been discovered 

 in miocene beds. It is, therefore, not represented in Thomas' collection. 



Squalodon atlanticus Leidy MS. Macrophoea atlantica Leidy, Proceed. Acad. 

 1856, 220. 



Remains of three individuals of this species before me indicate considerable 

 variety in the forms of the two rooted molar teeth. 



The individual from which Leidy determined the species is represented by 

 only three true molars. Of these, the posterior, with more curved and di- 

 varicate fangs, is smaller, and presents four crests behind, and two in front. 

 The nest presents the same number of crests, with the addition of a basal 

 rudimentary one in front. In the other molar, which has a slightly more 

 elongate crown, three and a rudiment may be counted behind, and none in 

 front. 



The second individual is represented in the Thomas collection by the proxi- 

 mal portions of the maxillary bones of both sides, and seven molar teeth in 

 place At least four of the most posterior molars were inserted in oblique 

 alveolpp, overlapping by their anterior fang the inner face of the posterior 

 fang of the tooth in front. Anterior to these the alveola? are less oblique, and 

 separated by spaces. The palatal face is moderately convex, while the exter- 

 nal surface is divided into two plane faces by an angulated line, which is 

 strong posteriorly, vanishing anteriorly. These bones indicate a muzzle of 

 proportions similar to those of the Sq. antverpiensis Van Beneden, and 

 a cranium of thirty inches in length. 



The teeth themselves, from their entire absence of worn surfaces, may be 

 supposed to belong to a young individual. They are longitudinally wrinkled, 

 and present a thick anterior and posterior cutting edge. The serrulations 

 stand from behind, -3. 2 3 3, the anterior two of the last being very weak. 

 The cutting edge ofall these is serrulate. Not only in the number of the 

 crests, but in the more elevate conic apex, do these teeth differ from those of 

 the foregoing individual. 



* Prof. Leidy informs me that he has arranged this and the succeeding species in the 

 genus Squalodon in the MSS. of his work on North American extinct mammalia. 



1867.] 




154 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



The third individual is represented by one true molar, and two caniniform 

 premolars. The former is considerably smaller and more conic than the 

 others, and exhibits a minute knob only on its anterior edge, to represent a 

 crest. On the posterior aspect there have been three crests on the basal 

 three-fifths the crown, worn off by mastication. The fangs are connected by 

 a thin lamina, as in the second described specimen, and not, as in the first, by 

 a thick wall. 



One canine is larger, and with perfect root ; the other smaller, a little more 

 compressed, and without fang; it exhibits a rather large conic pulp cavity. 

 The fang of the first is one-third longer than its crown; it is slender, slightly 

 compressed conic, and without cavity at the extremity. The crown is coarsely 

 striate and rugose between the stride ; two of the latter are elevated into ob- 

 tuse anterior and posterior cutting edges. Diameter greatest at base of 

 crown ; latter slightly curved. 



In. Lin. 



Length of basis of large molar of No. 1 13 



Height of enamel of same 10 



" " " in No. 2 13 



Length bases of 2, 3 and 4 molars (from behind). No. 2 3 4-5 



Width palatine face at 3d molar, No. 2 3 8 75 



Length canine, No. 3 4 



" fangofdo 2 45 



" basis of molar crown. No. 3 11 



Height of " " " " 9 



No. 1 was discovered in the miocene of New Jersey ; the others were in the 

 Thomas collection. 



The question arises as to the specific identity of these individuals. The 

 molar of No. 3 at once suggests a species different from No. 2 in smaller adult 

 size, and lack of anterior denticles. It could not be considered as a transi- 

 tional molar. These are shown by Van Beneden to be premolars, which 

 assume traces of the characters of the true molars. The present tooth, in its 

 form and double fang, is evidently a true molar. The discovery of the tooth 

 of No. 1 without denticles, however, invalidrttes this peculiarity as a ground 

 of difference in the present case, and furnishes a character of the species. 

 Those whose dentition is known exhibit an abrupt commencement of character- 

 istic true molars, without material approximation in the forms of their crowns 

 to those of the premolars. The shorter apex and increased number of den- 

 ticles on the posterior face in the specimen No. 1, I regard as an individual 

 peculiarity. 



The question as to the identity of this species with the Sq. grateloupii 

 depends in part on the identification of various short crowned teeth, described 

 by Gervais as its premolars. The strong median angulation of the external 

 face of the posterior part of the maxillaries, is a feature not described or 

 figured as existing in the latter species. The affinity of the S. atlauticus 

 is really nearer totheS. antverpiensis of Van Beneden, if it be not the 

 same. The only characters which I can at present assign as distinctive, are 

 the absence of denticles on the anterior edge of the molars throughout the 

 series, and the non-overlapping of the four posterior of these teeth. The 

 general proportions of the jaws and the form of the canine premolars are 

 very similar in the two species. If, as I suppose, my description of No. 2 is 

 taken from a young animal, its adult dimensions will exceed those of the 

 S. antverpiensis. 



DORYODON Gibbes. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada. 1845, 254. Pontogeneus Leidy, op. cit. 1853,52. 



This genus has been regarded as identical with Basilosaurus by Professor 

 Miiller, if, as is stated by Miiller, 1. c. (and Bronn, Lethaa Geognostica), the 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



species described by tbe former autbor is congeneric or identical with tbal 

 described by Gibbes. Authors generally seem to hnve settled down to the 

 belief in tbe identity of the two genera, the only exception being Prof. Van 

 Beneden, who, in his essay on Squalodon, doubts the generic identity oi Ba- 

 silosaurits macrofpondylus and B. brachyspondylus of Miiller. Enough is now 

 known of the Cetacea to render it certain that these two speoies cannot be- 

 long to the same genus, the elongate form of the dorsal vertebrae of the true 

 Basilosaurus cetoides sufficiently characterizing that genus, as compared 

 with the more usual Cetacean form of those of the present type. This feature 

 was, however, not known to Gibbes, who endeavored to establish the genus 

 on the hollowness of its teeth, — a character dependent, perhaps, on develop- 

 ment. 



DoRYODON PYGM.Ecs Copc. ZfM_y/orfo?i jPy5'wifr?<s Miiller, Ucbcr die Zeuglodou- 

 ten, Berlin. Foittogeneus ? priscus Leidy, op. cit. 

 Eocene. Louisiana, Alabama. 



DoRYODON SERRAT0S Glbbcs, 1. c. BasUosaurus serratus Gibbes, Journ. Acad- 

 i. 10. ? Zeuglodon brachyspondylus Miiller, Ueber d. Zeuglodonten, 1849, 

 26. Tab. 

 Eocene. Alabama, South Carolina. 



BASILOSAURUS Harlan. 

 Trans. Araer. Philos. Soc. Philada. 1834. Zeuglodon Owen, Trans. Geolog. 

 See. London, 1839. 



Basilosaurus cetoides Geinitz, Unters. ueber Hydrarchus^ Dresden, 1847 

 (cum Carus et Reichenbach), Gibbes, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci, 1847, 1. 

 Eocene. Arkansas, Alabama. 



Supplement. 



In the same collection are portions of mandibular rami of two species of 

 terrestrial Mammalia, which would not appear to be referable to the same 

 stratigraphic horizon. No beds regarded as postpliocene have as yet been 

 indicated from the shores of the Patuxent, though the below-mentioned spe- 

 cies have been most probably derived from such a deposit. These, with the 

 other beds of other epochs, are buried under from ten to thirty feet of rather 

 fine gravel drift. 



DicoTYLES TORQUATus Cuvier. 



Portions of both rami of the mandible with permanent and deciduous mo- 

 lars and canines of a small individual. The former are similar to those de- 

 scribed by Leidy in Palaeontology of South Carolina, by Prof. Holmes, and 

 closely resemble those of the common Peccary. They lack, however, the 

 cingulum crossing the interspace between the external pair of tubercles. 



Galera macrodon Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is based on the greater portion of the right ramus of the man- 

 dible of an adult, containing three molars in jilacc, the alveoU« of the first 

 and of the last, with a considerable portion of that of the canine. 



The alveolus indicates a canine of large size. The basis of fi-st premolar is 

 turned obliquely outwards, and is two-rooted. The second and third premolars 

 are separated by a space ; they have well-marked cingula, but neither posterior 

 nor internal tubercles. The sectorial is elongate, more than twice as long as 

 wide, the inner tubercle well marked, acute, the posterior lobe flattened, 

 elongate; anterior lobe narrowed. Alveolus of the tubercular molar longi- 

 tudinal, receiving a flattened fang with a groove on each side. Inferior face 

 of ramus below anterior line of coronoid process, broad rounded, turned out- 

 wards. Masseteric ridge only reaching the latter below near the apex of the 



1867.] 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



coronoid process, and not extending anterior to the line of the posterior mar. 

 gin of the tubercular molar. Ramus narrow at first premolar. 



Id. Lin. 



Length of ramus from posterior margin canine to do. of tubercular 1 5-5 



" to posterior margin sectorial 1 3 



" third premolar 3-75 



" sectorial molar 6 



Width of'same (posterior lobe) 28 



Depth ramus at posterior margin first premolar 1'^ 



" " " sectorial 8-25 



Width " " " symphysis 4-5 



This species appears to have been perhaps rather larger than the Galera 

 barb a ta (Gray) of Brazil, and of a rather more slender muzzle. As com- 

 pared with that species, it exhibits many peculiarities. The third premolar 

 is smaller, and the first, the sectorial, and the tubercular relatively larger. In 

 G. barbata the first molar has but one root, and the mandibular ramus 

 thicker and deeper. The masseteric ridge advances to opposite the middle of 

 the sectorial molar, and is continued on the inferior margin of the ramus, 

 much anterior to its position in the G. macrodon. 



The discovery of this species adds another link to the evidence in favor of 

 the extension of neotropical types* over the nearctic region during the post- 

 pliocene epoch. Of thirty continental North American species enumerated 

 by Leidy (Ancient Fauna of Nebraska, 9), all but thirteen may be said to be 

 characteristic of that, or closely allied to the species of the present period of 

 North America. Of the thirteen, one (Elephas) is characteristic of the old 

 world, of one (Anomodon) affinities unknown, and eleven are represented 

 by members of the same family or genus now living in South America. 



Among marine vertebrata, as among molluscs, the equivalency with the 

 European beds of the same age is much closer. The following parallels ex- 

 hibit this relation : 



North American. European. 



Aetobatis arcuatus, Aetobatis arcuatus, 



Myliobatis pachyodon, Myliobatis reglianus, 



Raja dux, Raja ornata, 



Plagiostomi sp., Plagiostomi sp., 



Priscodelphinus grandsevus, Priscodelph. canaliculatus, 



Balasna pala;atlantica, ? Balasna lamanoni, 



Squalodon mento, Squalodon grateloupii, 



Squalodon atlanticus, Squalodon antverpiensis. 



On the genera of Fresh- water Fishes HYPSILEPIS Baird and PHOTOGENIS 

 Cope, their species and distribution. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



The two genera in question are among those represented by the greatest 

 number of individuals in the streams of the eastern district {i. e., east of the 

 Rocky Mountains) of our continent. Hypsilepis is distributed over the greater 

 part of this area, while Photogenis abounds most in the Allegheny region, and 

 always in the streams flowing through the Mississippi valley, as no species is 

 known to occur in an Atlantic water. As we proceed northwards, the latter 

 genus disappears with many others, one after another, while Hypsilepis still 

 remains, and with its largest forms peoples the waters of the Great Lakes and 

 the St. Lawrence. 



* The genus Galera, Gray, is here regarded as distinct from Galictis Bell (Gi-isonia Gray), as it 

 possesses an internal tubercle on the inferior sectorial, which is wanting in the latter. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



The food of both genera consists of insects, though Photogenis only has the 

 pharyngeal teeth without grinding surface. In the latter genus the dorsal fin 

 is above the ventrals ; in Hypsilepis it varies from a little anterior to considera- 

 bly posterior. The large scales of the lateral line in Hypsilepis are so exten- 

 sively imbricate as to leave but a narrow margin exposed, giving a character 

 and name peculiar to the genus. Teeth in the longer row in both 4 — 4. 



HYPSILEPIS Baird. 



This genus was first outlined by Prof. Agassiz, in his work on Lake Superi- 

 or ; it was then partially defined by Dr. Storer in his Fresh-water Fishes of 

 Massachusetts, and later more fully by Girard, Pr. A. N. Sci. 1856. Girard 

 has enumerated the species, which are here reviewed with the exception of 

 two, — viz. : H. obesus [Leuciscm Storer), fiom Alabama, and //. gracilis [Len- 

 ciscus Agass.) These are described in such an imperfect manner as to leave 

 no. alternative but to omit them from this essay. 



There are two coloration types in the genus, one where the species are 

 adorned with red pigment (Sections I. and III.), and (Sect. II.) where a white 

 pigment is deposited. These are most brilliant during the season uf deposit of 

 eggs, and vanish in some species later in the season. In the H. coccogenis 

 m. much of the brilliant coloration remains throughout the whole year. There 

 are few sights more pleasiug than the brilliant crimsons of these fishes rapidly 

 reflected in the pure water of the mountain streams, especially where species 

 of other genera, as Clinostomus, Chrosomus and Argyreus vary the hues with 

 gold and black. These are as the bright birds to the forest, or flowers to the 

 field, in the otherwise monotonous life of the waters. 



Section III. approximates Alburnellus in the position of its dorsal fin. In 

 Section II. H. analostanus occasionally exhibits masticatory surface on 

 two or even on one tooth only, thus approximating Cyprinella Girard. The 

 Cyprinella cercostigma Cope is of much the same type, but is without this 

 surface, indicating the close approximation of the two genera. This species 

 may be established as follows, prefatory to an examination of the true Hypsi- 

 lepes : 

 Cyprinella cercostigma Cope, sp. nov. 



Teeth 2-4 — 4-2, with sharp, serrate edges. Dorsal fin inserted two scales be- 

 hind that above insertions of ventrals. Dorsal line compressed elevated, rising 

 regularly from end muzzle. Cranium convex above ; muzzle narrowed in pro- 

 file, slightly overhanging mouth. Eye 4-33 in length of head, 1-5 in length 

 muzzle, and 2 in iuterorbital width. End maxillary opposite posterior margin 

 nares. Ventral outline less curved than dorsal ; caudal peduncle rather stout ; 

 isthmus narrow. Scales rather elevated, 8 — 39 — 3. Lateral line gently de- 

 curved over ventrals. 



Head 5-25 times in total length (4-25 to origin caudal), one scale less than 

 depth at dorsal. The pectorals nearly reach the ventrals, and the latter attain 

 the vent. Radii A I. 8. C. -^- 19 -|- A. I. 8, the longest ray ^ its base, and 1 

 distance to longest fulcrum at origin caudal. Total length 4-52 inches ; depth -95 

 inch. 



Color bright olive above, without line or spot ; below and sides from fifth 

 lateral row of scales above, golden silvery. AH the fins except the pectorals 

 with white pigment at their bases, without markings; a large round black spot 

 at base of caudal. 



Habitat — Pearl River, Mississippi, at Monticello. Helen Tennison's coll. in 

 Mus. Smithsonian, Washington, D. C. Four specimens. 



I. Dorsal fin above or anterior to ventrals ; teeth 2-4 — 4-2 ; 

 anal radii I. 9. 

 Head more elevated, decurved above, mandible included; mouth 

 slightly oblique ; eye over four times in length of head. Dorsal 

 and caudal neither black nor yellow-banded coruutus. 



1867.] 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Head nearly plane above ; mandible projecting beyond muzzle, 

 mouth very oblique ; eye less than four times in head. Dor- 

 sal black bordered ; caudal yellow at base ; head red striped... coccogenis. 



II. Dorsal fin a little behind above ventrals ; teeth 1-4 — 4-1 ; 

 anal radii (usually) I. 8. 



Head flat, descending, mandible included, mouth horizontal ; eye 

 nearly five times in head. Dorsal with a black spot behind ; 

 caudal yellow at base, head not striped ; teeth smooth ; larger galacturus. 



Similar to the last, but smaller ; the teeth more or less crenate, 

 and the basal half of the caudal fin is not colored ; a black 

 scapular band analostanus. 



III. Dorsal fin well behind above ventrals ; teeth 2-4 — 4-2 ; 

 anal radii I. 11. 



Head short, deep, eye entering 3-5 times ; small, depth 3-75 in 

 length; lateral line much decurved, scales 10 — 44 — 3, not black- 

 edged ; dorsal black at base dipLnemia 



Head flat, elongate; mouth very oblique; eye three and a-half 

 times in head; small, depth one-fifth length without caudal; 

 scales black-edged above 9 — 50 — 3. Dorsal black at base ; 

 lateral line little decurved ardens. 



Hypsilepis cornutus Mitchell. 



Girard, in Storer, Trans. Amer. Acad. Arts Sciences v. 1855, 118. Proc. A. 

 N. Sci. Phila. 1856, 212. Cyprinus Mitch. „ Amer. Month. Magaz. N. Y. I. 324- 

 Leuciscus cornutus Storer, De Kay. 



This is one of the most widely distributed of our Cyprinida, occurring from 

 Nova Scotia and New England through the middle and western States to be- 

 vond the Mississippi, and in the Roanoke and Tennessee Rivers southwards, 

 in the waters of the Susquehanna and Delaware basins it is, with the Argy- 

 rens a t r o n a s u s, the most abundant species. It prefers clear waters, and 

 does not haunt rapids. 



The best figure of this, as well as of some of our other Cyprinidae, is given by 

 Dr. Storer in his excellent iMonograph on the fishes of Massachusetts. 



This species is represented in its distribution by a greater amount of varia- 

 tion than any other of the f^imily with which I am acquainted. The varieties 

 are constant in a great number of their individuals. They may be enumerated 

 as follows : 



H. c. gibbus, Proc. Acad. 1864, 279. 



Seven specimens from Monroe county, Mich. Scales large, six rows above 

 lateral line, sixteen anterior to dorsal fin ; it differs from the following in the 

 great elevation of the outline in front of the dorsal fin, and other points. From 

 the first dorsal ray the outline again descends, giving the fin a very oblique 

 position ; this extends also, when laid back, as far as above the fifth anal ray, 

 while in frontalis it most usually reaches a point opposite the first ray 

 only. The ej'e is contained four times in the length of the head— more fre- 

 quently four and a half times in f r o n t a 1 i s. The length of the head measures 

 in the depth of the body, from the dorsal outline to the middle of the row be- 

 low that bearing the lateral line ; it extends nearly to the ventral outline in 

 frontalis. The pharyngeal bones appear to be relatively rather stouter 

 than in typical frontalis, and are not furnished with so promnient an in- 

 ferior angle to the external ala. This, with the form of the body, would almost 

 indicate a species ; but as I find approximations in these and transitions in the 

 other characters, I cannot so consider it. 



H. c. frontalis. Leiclscus frontalis Agassiz, Lake Superior, p. 308. Hypsilepis 

 frontalis Cope, 1. c. 279. 



fDec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



Scales of dorsal region larger ; fifteen to eighteen in front of dorsal, six 

 above lateral line. From various streams flowing into Lakes Huron and St. 

 Clair. Lake Superior, Agass. Holston River, Virginia, abundant. Orbit in 

 specimens 3 in. 9 1. in length, 3-5 times in head; in specimen 7 in. 3 1., 4-75 

 times in head. The latter have the interorbital region arched in section, and 

 the vertical diameter of the orbit 3-74: in the same of the head. The former, 

 the interorbital region flat and the orbit twice in the head as before. The large 

 specimens have a black scapular bar. They all belong to one variety. 



H. c. cerasinus. 



This variety is represented by specimens of rather small size, and with large 

 scales: 6 — 40 — 3 ; 16 in front of dorsal fin ; orbit 3-25 in head of a specimen 

 3 in. 9 1. in length. Head four times in length. This is a most beautiful spe- 

 cies in the spring and summer ; it is entirely deep rose, the inferior fins crimson, 

 a dorsal and two lateral metallic golden lines ; the latter only visible in life 

 and in certain lights, as in the other varieties. Head waters of the Roanoke. 



H. c. cornutus. Leuciscus comutus Mitchell. Leuciscus plargyrus Rafinesqne 

 hinc Plargyrus typicus Girard. Plargyrus bowmanii Girard, Proc. Acad. 

 1856, 196 (from autopsy). 



Scales of dorsal region smaller, 22 to 24 in front of dorsal fin ; on sides 8 — 

 41 — 3-4. Dorsal region blue in spring ; fins, chin and muzzle red. Dorsal 

 region convex and compressed to dorsal fin, the head four and one-quarter 

 times in length to base of caudal fin, and four-fifths of greatest depth of body ; 

 vertex concave, muzzle obtuse rounded ; mouth terminal, end of maxillary 

 terminating opposite posterior nostril. From end muzzle to dorsal (1st ray) 

 l^ths from latter to origin of caudal. Yentrals origin exactly under first dorsal, 

 broadly truncate, not quite attaining vent. Base of anal nearly equal its an- 

 terior ray, outline slightly concave. Base of dorsal two-thirds height anteri- 

 orly. Pectoral anterior rays shortened, medial not quite reaching the ventral. 

 Operculum one-third higher than long. Eye, diameter one-fourth length of 

 head, and once below its rim to upper preopercular ridge. Frontal width one- 

 half length head above. Scales _8_j about twenty-three on the dorsal line in 

 front of third dorsal fin Radial formula D. 1. 8 ; C. 4. 19. 5. A. 1. 9. V. 8 ; P. 1. 

 15. Coloration of an adult male : dorsal region as far down as the fourth row 

 of scales dark impure blue, divided by an indistinct band of yellowish-olive one 

 and a-half scales wide, which follows the outline of the back ; bordering the 

 dark below is a luminous line which does not attain the tail, which is very 

 visible in the water, and from above when wet and out of water. Sides from 

 rosy to silver-white, the scales in adults blackish at bases ; anal, ventral and 

 pectoral tins bright crimson in spring and summer, in males. Operculum ros}', 

 head dark above. The males in spring have the branchiostegal membranes 

 and the chin bright crimson. 



Total average length 5 in. 7 lin. ; head 1 in. 1 1. ; end muzzle to base anal 

 3 in. ; depth at dorsal 1 in. 4 1.; at anal 11-5 1. 



The above description is taken from an adult from the Conestoga in Penn- 

 sylvania, tributary to the Susquehanna. It applies equally well to all indi- 

 viduals of the species, except as pointed out under the heads of the varieties, 

 respectively. Nevertheless, the specimens from the Susquehanna are frequently 

 distinguishable from those of the Delaware. Numerous specimens from 

 Michigan agree with the former in having a more elongate form of head and 

 body than specimens from tributaries of the Delaware. They often differ 

 from those of the Susquehanna in having a row of scales more below the 

 lateral line. In Delaware specimens the head is shorter than in the latter, not 

 more so than in the former, but the depth of the body is greater than in either, 

 entering in length to base of tail 3.1 times — in the others 4 and 4j times. The 

 dorsal tin is a little more anteriorly situated in the Delaware specimens, and 

 there is a row of scales more below the lateral line than in Susquehanna speci- 



1867.] 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



mens. With typical specimens only, these might be regarded as representing 

 two species, and as such I have already alluded to them ; but in the large 

 number of individuals at my disposal, I find transitions in all the points. The 

 Delaware specimens more nearly resemble the H. cornutus, figured by Dr. 

 Storer. 



General Habitat. — Eastern, Middle and Western States; headwaters of the 

 James Ri^er. There is nothing in the description oi Plargyrtis argentatiis Girard 

 (I. c. 212). from the lower James River, to distinguish it f^rom this variety. 



H. c. cyaneus. 



Scales of the whole dorsal and ventral regions very small, 31 to 40 in front 

 of dorsal fin ; on sides 10 — 40 — 4. Colors very dark ; above blackish-blue, all 

 the scales black at their bases ; head entirely black ; pectorals black : ventrals 

 with a broad black band and red tip ; anal black in front, dorsal chiefly black ; 

 membrane of caudal blackish. In a specimen 5 in. 10-5 lines long, the orbit 

 enters the head 4-5 times. Small tubercles extend from muzzle to vertex, are 

 numerous on the sides of the former to rictus oris, and form a strong crest on 

 mandibular and suborbital bones. 



This well-marked variety was taken in the Montreal River, Keeweenaw Point, 

 on Lake Superior, by John H. Slack, M. D., to whom the Academy is indebted 

 for a number of specimens. 



Hypsilepis coccogenis Cope. 

 Spec. nov. 



The general form of this fish is moderately stout, the head elongate and 

 straight, with large eye. The caudal peduncle is neither narrow nor broad ; 

 the dorsal outline very little elevated. Length of head four and a quarter 

 times in total without caudal fin : greatest depth scarcely less than length of 

 head. Diameter of eye three-fourths of frontal width, and greater than dis- 

 tance between its lower margin and gular plane. Scales of typical form 7 — 42 

 — 3. The fins rather small ; pectorals extend little more than half way to ven- 

 trals. and the latter do not reach the vent. External margin of anal as long as 

 from end of muzzle to preopercular line, or as long as pectoral ; front margin 

 of dorsal equal the same, and greater than posterior margin of same. 



The colors of this fish are very pleasing. Belly and sides silver white, or in 

 the breeding season rose-colored, bounded above the lateral line by a leaden 

 shade. Back olive, with sometimes a brown dorsal band, sometimes the scales 

 heavily black margined. The head blackish above, and a deep black band on 

 the scapular arch. Muzzle and lips with a broad band behind the edge of the 

 preoperculum and axillary spot, crimson. Dorsal fin broadly black-banded 

 on margin, yellowish-banded medially, and crimson at base. Colors of the 

 caudal similar, without the crimson; inferior fins milky white. 



Dimensions of an adult specimen : 



In. Lin. In. Lin. 



Total length 5 2 Depth at occiput 8-5 



Length muzzle and chin 4-5 '• at dorsal 1 



Diameter orbit 3-75 " at caudal peduncle.. 5-25 



This species is only second to the H. cornutus in size, and first in the 

 genus in beauty. Its particolored fins and crimson cheek stripe render it 

 easily recognizable. The latter feature gives it its name. It occurs in abun- 

 dance in the clear and often rapid creeks that flow into the north and middle 

 forks of the Holston River in Viginia. Taken in the Ninth month. 



Hypsilepis galacturus Cope. 

 Spec. nov. 



The general form of this fish is fusiform, the inferior and superior outlines 

 converging equally. The superior cranial outline descends gently and equally; 

 the muzzle is more than usually prolonged beyond the mouth. The end of the 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



maxillary stands opposite the nares. The eye is smaller than in the other spe- 

 eies, excepting H. analostanus, entering 5-5 times the length of the head 

 in old specimens. The head enters the total (exclusive of caudal fin) 4-3 times, 

 and the greatest depth 4-6 times. The exposed surfaces of the lateral scales 

 are not so much narrowed as in the other species, and the lateral line is but 

 little decurved ; nos. 6 — 41 — 3; eighteen anterior to the dorsal fin. Small 

 tubercles appear on the top of the head, the patch narrowed behind, and the 

 sides of the muzzle. The pectoral fins reach three-fifths the distance to the 

 ventrals, the latter the vent. The anal is larger than in most species, its outer 

 margin as long as from end of muzzle to middle of operculum. Dorsal elevated, 

 the height equalling depth of body at first anal ray in a male. Rays D I. 8. 

 C-l-19-P. All. 9. V. 8. P. 14. 



Dimensions of an adult : 



In. Lin. In. Lin. 



Total length 5 4 Depth at occiput 8-25 



Length muzzle 3-75 " dorsal 11.75 



Diameter orbit 2-75 " caudal peduncle 5-75 



In life this species is steel gray above, and silver beneath ; the inferior fins 

 are milky, and the dorsal and caudal iron grey sprinkled with blackish. The 

 hinder portion of the former has the membrane black and the rays cream col- 

 ored, and the whole base of the caudal is cream yellow. 



This fine species is abundant in the tributaries of the Holston River in Virgi- 

 nia. Many specimens are in the museum of the Academy. 



It resembles the H. analostanus in its proportions of eye and head, but 

 is more elongate in body. The largest specimens are more than twice the size 

 of the largest of the latter. 



Htpsilepis analostanus (Girard) Cope. 



Leuciscus kentukiensis Kirtl. Journ. Bost. Soc. Nat Hist. V. p. 27 (not of Rafi- 

 nesque). Cyprinella do. Cope, Proc. Acad. Phila. 1854, 279. Hi/psilcpis do. 

 Cope, Trans. Am. Phila. Soc. 1866, 371. Cyprinella analostana Girard, Proc. 

 Acad. Phila. 1859, 58. Cope 1. c. 



The dorsal and ventral outlines are regularly and gently arched from the 

 end of the muzzle and contract to a caudal peduncle of about the depth of the 

 head at the middle of the orbit. The dorsal region is quite compressed, the 

 ventral narrow but not carinate in front of the vent. Eye round, contained 4-5 

 times in length of head, and 1-5 in length of muzzle ; the latter is narrowed 

 and projects slightly beyond the mouth, most so in males in breeding season. 

 Oral margin arched, end of maxilla opposite middle of nares. The greatest 

 depth of the body is greater than the length of the head, and enters the total 

 (including caudal fin) four and one-fifth times. Tail short, deeply and con- 

 cavely emarginate. Anal fin less developed than dorsal, its base nearly equal 

 height of first ray, and just exceeding base of dorsal ; latter a little over f 

 greatest elevation of the same. 



General color leaden silvery, darkest on the sides, the scales above and be- 

 low, a dorsal band and large spot on hinder part of dorsal fin, blackish ; top of 

 head and median margin of anal fin shaded with the same. In spring and 

 summer the inferior fins, and even the tips of the caudal and anterior part of 

 the dorsal, are filled with a satin white pigment, which has a very elegant ef- 

 fect, and gives the fish its local name of " Silver Fin." At the same period 

 the head and muzzle cf the male are studded with small tubercles, as follows: 

 a conic accumulation on the end of the muzzle, prolonging it ; a series round 

 the mandible, also over the orbit, from an agglomeration on the jireorbital 

 bone ; a double series of larger tubercles on each side the frontal region, which 

 join between the nares and on the parietal region ; scattered series on the tem- 

 poral region. 



1867.] 11 




163 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Total length 3-375 inches ; caudal 5 ; from its base to first ray of anal 1 in.: 

 to first dorsal ray 1-44 in.; from latter to end of muzzle l-.^e in. 



This species is abundant in the various tributaries of the Ohio ; it is also 

 common in all the waters of the Susquehanna examined (Octoraro, Conestoga, 

 Juniata, Meshoppen) and in the Potomac (Girard) ; from the Delaware I know 

 it from the neighborhood of Trenton (C. G. Abbott) and Philadelphia (J. 

 Burk), Conshehocken on the Schuylkill. From the James River, Va. 



It is also abundant in the Kanawha and its tributaries, but is not known 

 from the Holstou. It is chiefly to be found in the quieter parts of river chan- 

 nels and back waters, being comparatively rare in creeks. 



Dr. Girard described specimens of this species from the Potomac as distinct 

 from those of the Ohio, without making comparisons. I undertook to sub- 

 stantiate the difl'erences and gave the following as distinctive features of the 

 Eastern and Western fishes : 



5-(6) 



Head 3f to 4 times in length to base of tail. Scales 32 — 5 for the Eastern. 



2-(3) 

 6—7 



Head 4^ times ; muzzle more acute. Scales 38 — 40 for the Ohio type. 



3—4 

 These represent the tendencies of the individuals of these regions correctly, 

 but the exceptions to the rule are not rare ; thus a Schuylkill specimen before 

 me exhibits a head 4^ times in length and has an acute muzzle, scales of lateral 

 line 38. Seven rows of scales above the lateral line in a Youghiogheuy speci- 

 men, include some abnormally intercalated, but not a true series ; about half 

 the Delaware specimens exhibit six. Four rows below the lateral line has 

 resulted from counting an elevated abdominal series. In two Ohio specimens 

 the anal radial formula is identical with that of the eastern, 1-9, while in five 

 the formula is 1-8. Thus this species exhibits an unusual range of variation. 



Dr. Kirtland identifies this species with the Leuciscus [Luxilus) kentukiensin 

 Eafinesque, but this cannot be correct, as the latter is described as having red 

 tins, a characteristic always wanting in the H. analostanus. 



Hypsilepis dipl-smia Raf. 



Leuciscus diplxmia Raf., Ichthyologia Opiensis, p. 50. Luxilus do. Kirtland, 

 Bost. Journ. N. H. 1845, 276, Tab. Flargyrus do. Girard, Proc. Acad. Phila. 

 1856. Uypsilepis do. Cope, 1. c. 1864. 



This species has somewhat the form, as it has the coloration and minute 

 nuptial excrescences of the species of Clinostomus; as in them, the dorsal fin 

 commences slightly behind above the origin of the ventrals ; its hinder margin 

 is opposite the origin of the anal, to which the ventrals attain. Anal elon- 

 gate, its last ray horizontal, outline behind, vertical concave. Dorsal elevated, 

 rounded above, length of first articulated ray one-half from its base to base of 

 caudal. Radial formula D I. 9 P. 12. V. 8. A I. 11. C.-1-18+. Dorsal outline 

 elevated, superior line of cranium scarcely arched, head rather compressed ; 

 body rapidly narrowing to caudal peduncle at dorsal and anal fins. Caudal 

 expanded, deeply emarginate. 



In the breeding season minute asperities cover the dorsal line in front of the 

 dorsal fin, and appear on the upper and lower aspects of the head. The latter 

 are most abundant on the preorbital region ; on frontal region sparse, minute. 

 Rows on the superciliary and lower edge of suborbital regions, and two on each 

 ramus mandibuli. 



Length of head four times in length to base caudal, and less than depth of 

 body. Scales of anterior dorsal region much smaller than those of the lateral ; 

 latter with exposed surfaces very narrow, and crested with minute tubercles in 

 the breeding season. 



Color, dusky above, the sides and belly silvery without band ; below crimson 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



in spring. A large black spot at base of dorsal fin. Length extends to four 

 inches, according to Prof. Kirtland ; of a specimen in Museum Academy, from 

 Lansing, Michigan, 2 inches to origin caudal ; 12'5 lines to origin dorsal ; 6 

 lines to opercular margin ; depth 7 lines. 



Prof. Kirtland states that it is abundant in all western streams, and that it 

 ascends rapids in shoals in spring for the purpose of depositing its eggs. 



Hypsilepis ardens Cope. 

 Spec. nov. 



Length of head 4-33 times in total; orbit equal muzzle, its anterior border 

 reached bj the end of the maxillary ; mandibular symphysis projecting slightly 

 beyond the end of the muzzle. About 26 rows of scales in front of dorsal fin. 

 Anterior dorsal ray opposite the middle of the ventral, the posterior opposite 

 the first anal. The first anal nearly as long as the longest dorsal, the fin elon- 

 gate, concave behind ; it is nearly reached by the ventrals. Pectorals extend 

 half way to ventrals. Cranium slightly arched transversely above ; inter- 

 orbital space -25 greater than diameter of orbit. Opercular and preorbital 

 bones deeper than long. 



Dorsal region yellowish olive, the scales black edged to middle of sides, all 

 rose shaded. Sides, belly and head rosy crimson, muzzle approaching vermil- 

 lion ; suborbital region purple. Dorsal and anal fins vermillion, the former 

 black at base ; pectorals and ventrals rose. Caudal orange red, bla«k lined. 



Length of largest specimen 3 in. 2-5 lines; to base dorsal 17-5 lines; latter 

 to base caudal 14-5 lines. Depth at orbit 3-5 1.; at first anal ray 5-25 1.; at con- 

 striction caudal peduncle 3 1. 



Habitat. — The head waters of the Roanoke River (in Montgomery Co., Vir- 

 ginia). One of the most richly colored fresh-water fishes. 



PHOTOGENIS Cope. 

 Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. 1866, 378. 



This genus was established for species agreeing in general characters with 

 Hybopsis, but resembling Alburnellus in dentition. The mouth is not small, 

 the orbits and scales are large, and the form generally slender. The species 

 frequent clear streams, are less common in swift rapids, and never occur in 

 stagnant or muddy waters. They are ornamented with lustre almost exclu- 

 sively, and do not develope conspicuous horny tubercles. 



The present collection contains tl^ree new species of the genus, which are 

 here added to the three already known : 



A. Anal radii I. 10, in one species L 9. (No black spot 

 at origin of caudal fin.) 



ctst. Dorsal fin much nearer origin caudal than end of 



muzzle. 



Scales (5) 6 — 39-40 — 3. Diameter eye equal length muzzle ; 



33 times in head ; latter 4 to 4-5 in length ; depth in same 



5-6 — 5 times ; above olive ; sides silver, in a band on 



caudal peduncle. Anal radii I. 10 P. leucops. 



Frontal width three-fifths orbit. Scales 7 — 35 — 3. Orbit 

 diameter greater than length muzzle, 2-75 times in head ; 

 depth 4-75 in length ; lateral line much decurved ; silver}- 



below, fins unspotted. Anal radii I. 9 P. ariommus. 



o. Dorsal fin equidistant between origin caudal and 

 end muzzle. 

 Scales 4 (5) — 36-40 — 3. Diameter of eye exceeding length of 

 muzzle, 2-75 times in length of head ; latter 4-5 in length,* 

 depth 5 times. Head above and edges dorsal scales black- 

 ish ; sides and belly silver P. telescopus. 



1867.] 



♦ Always to origin caudal. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



AA. Anal radii I. 8. 



A. A black spot at origin caudal fin. 



Scales 5 — 38-40 — 3. Orbit equal muzzle, 3-3 — 3-5 times in 

 length head ; latter 4-5 iu length. Olive scales above 

 brown edged ; sides silver, with a purple band ; muzzle 



and base dorsal red P. leuciodus. 



acL. No black spot at base caudal. 



Head narrower. Scales 6 — 38 — 2. Orbit less than length 

 muzzle, 3-5 times in length head; latter times in total ; 

 depth five times in same. A leaden lateral band : middle 

 caudal and spot on dorsal black P. spilopterus. 



Head broad, frontal width equal diameter orbit, which is greater 

 than length of muzzle, one-third length head. Scales 5-6 

 —38—3. Head 3 75—4 times in length ; depth 4 — 4-5 

 times : P. scabriceps. 



Photogexis leccops Cope. 



L. c. Squalius {^Clinostomus) photogenis Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1864, 

 280. 



A species resembling some Alburni in its large caducous scales and attenu- 

 ated form. Eye over one-third head, round. Mouth quite oblique ; under jaw 

 scarcely projecting ; maxillary not reaching line of margin of orbit. Head en- 

 tering four and two-thirds times into length to fork of caudal ; greatest depth 

 seven times. Back broad. Fins D. narrow 8; C. 19, A. 1 — 10. V. little an- 

 terior to dorsal 9. P. narrow falcate 13, extending about half-way from their 

 origin to that of the ventrals. Scales with radii stronger than concentric lines. 

 From base of caudal to base of first dorsal ray, equal from latter to anterior 

 border of iris. Lateral line deflexed, rising with outline of belly at anal fin. 

 Above pale ochre, with a median brown line, and one on each side, from oper- 

 cular upper angle to tail. Sides and below bright silvery, especially brilliant 

 on the operculum and suborbital region. Lips blackish edged. Muzzle and 

 chin whitish. Length three inches. 



This species has but five scales above the lateral line as originally described, 

 exceedingly rarely. 



Three marked varieties of this species have come under my notice, as 

 follows : 



a. Depth greater, equal from end muzzle to middle of operculum ; head 

 usually 4-5 times in length. Numerous specimens from the Kanawha, especially 

 from Sinking Creek and near Austinville, Wythe Co., Ya. 



aa. Depth less, six times in length, equal from end muzzle to edge preopercle : 

 head four times in length. Two specimens from Youghiogheny, Pa. 



aaa (P. 1. engraulinus). Depth one-sixthof length, equal from end muzzle to 

 between orbit and prneoperculum. Head 3f times in length. One specimen 

 from Austinville, Wythe Co., Ya., from a tributary of the Kanawha. 



Photogenis ariommds Cope. 



Trans. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila. 1866, 280. 



This species resembles at first sight the Ph. 1 e u c o p s, but is less elongate. 

 On comparing an example of the latter, -25 longer, the depth of the body is the 

 same, and the eye strikingly larger ; the depth of the head the same, and the 

 muzzle shorter. 



In this fish the operculum is deeply concave on its upper posterior margin, 

 and the inferior is shorter than the anterior; in P. leucops the former is 

 straight, and the inferior border equal the anterior. The dark lateral line is 

 faint or wanting in the ariommus, and there is no black vertebral band. 

 Placed alongside of a Hypsilepis cornutus of equal length, this fish is less 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



deep, and has an eye of almost double the area, besides the different coloration 

 and generic features of teeth and scales. 



Eye two and three-fifths in length head ; muzzle two-thirds its diameter ; 

 mouth large, mandible scarcely projecting, maxilla not attaining anterior mar- 

 gin of orbit. Frontal breadth three-fifths orbit. Pectoral fins reaching three- 

 quarters distance to ventrals. Depth caudal peduncle one-third from middle 

 origin caudal to opposite first anal ray. Basis of anal slightly elongate, four- 

 fifths height of same, equal basis dorsal ; latter equal two-thirds height of 

 dorsal ; last dorsal ray much less than half first, hence the outline of the fin is 

 very oblique. Caudal deeply furcate, length equal that of head. Length from 

 basis caudal to first dorsal ray equal from latter to above anterior part of orbit, 

 as in Ph. 1 e u c o p s. Anal radii I. 9. 



Light olivaceous sides and below silvery, becoming a band with superior 

 dark edge on caudal peduncle. Sides of head and muzzle white. 



Total length 2-875 inches ; base of dorsal to superior base caudal 1-06 inches ; 

 same to end muzzle 1-19. 



This species has only been found as yet in the White River, Indiana, by Wm. 

 P. Clark, to whose attention I owe a single specimen. 



Photogenis telescopus Cope, sp. nov, 



A species combining an elongate form, short head and large eye, and nearly 

 allied to the last described. 



Mouth very oblique (angle 60°), mandible not projecting beyond premaxillarv 

 when closed ; posterior margin maxillary on line of anterior margin of orbit. 

 End of muzzle slightly decurved, profile above nearly plane ; frontal region 

 flat transversely, the parietal region gently convex in section. Lateral line 

 slightly deflected. Posterior dorsal ray equal less than half the anterior, and 

 equal the basis to the sixth ray. Basis of anal greater than that of dorsal, a 

 little less than longest anal ray. Ventral fins fall short of vent, and are ap- 

 proached two-thirds the intervening distance by the pectorals. P. 14. D. and 

 V. I. 8. C. -|- 19-(-- Length of an average specimen 3 in. 6-5 lines ; end muzzle 

 to first anal ray 1 in. 11-5 lines ; depth caudal peduncle at posterior anal ray 

 3-75 lines. 



In life this species is a pale sea-green, with distinct brown edges to the 

 scales. Lateral lustre plumbeous posteriorly. 



This species is very abundant in all the rapid streams tributary to the Hol- 

 ston River in Virginia. It is very rare in the river itself. 



Photogenis leuciodus Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is allied to the P. t e 1 e s c o p u s, and may readily be confound- 

 ed with it, but the more delicate tints at once distinguish it in life, and the 

 smaller orbit strikes the e^^e on making comparison. As shown in the analytic 

 table, the characters are numerous. It is the only one of the genus adorned 

 with bright colors ; they are subdued, the purple and silver of the sides re- 

 sembling the nacre of some Uniones. 



Muzzle rounded in profile, mandible not projecting, mouth oblique (30°), 

 end of maxillary bone opposite margin orbit. Vertex gently convex trans- 

 versely. Twelve scales in vertebral line anterior to dorsal fin. Lateral line 

 nearly straight. Radial formula, except for anal, and lengths of fins as in the 

 last species. Longest dorsal ray measures twice from its origin to above 

 posterior margin or middle of orbit. End of muzzle and basis of dorsal fin red, 

 as in the young of Hypsilepis coccogenis. 



Total length of a fully grown specimen 3 in. 1 line ; length to first anal ray 

 1. 8-5 lines. Depth caudal peduncle at last anal ray 3 lines. 



This species is found in the tributaries of the Holston, in situations similar 

 to those where the P. telescopus occurs. It is, com])ared with the last 

 named, a rare fish. Numerous specimens in Mus. Academy. 



1867.] 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Photogenis spilopteecs Cope. 

 Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila. 1866, 280. 



Form elongate, less so than in the Ph. 1 e u c o p s ; scales with the radii dis- 

 tinct 6 — 10, and the concentric lines very strong. Lateral line deflexed ante- 

 riorlv. Orbit three and one-half times in length of head, equal length muzzle, 

 and IS three- fourths the interorbital breadth. Head five and one-third times 

 in total length, equal length caudal fin. Muzzle straight above, mandible not 

 projecting when closed, end of maxillarj^ attaining line of orbit. Premaxillary 

 margin opposite middle pupil. Pectorals two-thirds length to ventrals. Bases 

 of anal and dorsal fins equal, equal two-thirds height of former, three-fifths 

 height of latter. First dorsal ray a little nearer origin caudal than end muzzle. 

 Rays, D. 1.8. A. 1.8. Y. 7 and 8.' P. 13. 



Length 2-875 inches, depth caudal peduncle at middle -19 in. Teeth in nu- 

 merous specimens 1-4 — 4-1. 



Color olivaceous, with a plumbeous band along the posterior half the lateral 

 line; thoracic region and lower half the sides of head silvery, remainder of 

 head blackish. Median part of caudal fin, a spot on the upper hinder portion 

 of the dorsal, and a narrow vertebral line, black. 



Many specimens of this species are in Museum Academy, from St. Josephs 

 River, in southwestern Michigan. 



This species bears a superficial resemblance to the Hybopsis plumbeolus, 

 but apart from the difference of dentition, and the spot on the dorsal fin, this 

 species has a smaller ej-e, longer ventrals, etc. 



Photogexis scabriceps Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is readily distinguished from its congeners by its stout robust 

 form, heavy head, and large eye, and in life by minute rugosities which cover 

 the front muzzle and chin, but which disappear, leaving no trace, in spirits. 



Front and vertex flat, upper profile plane, end of muzzle obliquely descend- 

 ing. Mouth little oblique, mandible as long as muzzle ; extremity of maxillary 

 opposite line of orbit. The operculum is more posteriorly prolonged than in 

 the P. telescopus. Lateral line distinctly deflexed. Pins small, pectorals 

 and ventrals short ; radii as in the last species. 



This species is not so refulgent as most others of the genus. In life it is of 

 a brio-ht sea-green, with an ill-defined silver lateral band, which is leaden 

 shaded on the caudal peduncle. Dorsal streak reddish, scarcely perceptible in 

 alcohol. 



Total length 3 in. 1-5 lines; width of cranium behind 4-2 lines; length of 

 caudal fin (equal from end muzzle to preoperculum) 5-75 lines. 



This species occurs abundantlj- in the tributaries of the Kanawha River, in 

 company with the Ph. leu cops, especially in Sinking C:eek, Walker's Creek, 

 and near Austinville. It occurs not rarely in the main channel of the river 

 also. 



A Eeview of the species of the AMBLYST0MID.2;. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



This family is of particular interest among the Urodela, as furnishing con- 

 necting forms between the ordinary types of the order, and those larger species 

 which°we suppose to be more characteristic of former periods of the earth's 

 history. It also furnishes us with transitional conditions of characters which 

 have been regarded as indicating very diverse origin and nature. The species 

 are mostly of large size, and are probably confined to North America ; perhaps 

 a species exists in Japan. 



The characters which restrict the family are as follows : 



Palatine bones not prolonged over parasphenoid, ^bearing teeth on their 

 posterior margins. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



Orbitosphenoid separated from prootic by membranous -walls. Internal wall 

 of vestibule membranous. 

 Carpus and tarsus ossified. 

 Vertebrne amphicoelian 

 Prefrontals and pterygoids present. 



Premaxill.aries feebly developed, distinct, but not embracing a fontanelle. 

 Parasphenoid without dentigerous plates. 

 Parietals and prefrontals prolonged, embracing frontals. 

 The writer characterized the family as above in the Journal of the Academy, 

 1866, 105. Dr. Hallowell proposed it in the same work, 1858, 337, but on in- 

 sufficient characters. Many of the characters of the principal genus, Ambly- 

 stoma, had been already pointed out by Prof. Baird. The genera included by 

 Hallowell were Amblystoma, Xiphonura Tsch., and Ouychodactylus Tschudi. 

 Gray had previously embraced the same genera with Heterotriton Gray, in his 

 first section of the Plethodontidte, which corresponds with this family. The 

 writer in 1859 embraced Ouychodactylus, Amblystoma, Camarataxis Cope, and 

 Megalobatrachus Tschudi. In the above cited essay of 1866 the genera are 

 limited to the two first mentioned, with Ensatina Gray. 



The full investigation of the subject results in the following disposition of 

 these supposed genera, Baird having already shown the identity of Xiphonura 

 with Amblystoma. Heterotriton is identical with Amblystoma. Megalobatra- 

 chus, the great salamander of Japan, I have determined to pertain to the Proto- 

 nopsidfe. Ensatinn Gray my friend St. George Mivart informs me is identical 

 with Heredia Girard. If this be the case, it is established on a species of the 

 Plethodontidae, and one not to be separated from Plethodon. I therefore call 

 H. orcgonensis Girard, Plethodon e n s at u s, and thus we have three species* 

 of this genus in the Pacific district, where none were previously supposed to 

 exist. Ouychodactylus most probably belongs to the Plethodoutida?, the 

 sphenoidal teeth having been perhaps overlooked or lost; but it may be also 

 an exceptional type of the same family. I have not seen it. The character 

 from which it is named, and which has been regarded as part of its generic di- 

 agnosis, is probably only a seasonal or incidental one, and not likely to prove 

 even specific. It is a common feature of the large Amblystomaj, and has no 

 greater significance with them. 



The genus Camarat'ixis, as will appear further on, was established on a 

 larval character, permanent in some individuals, it is true, but not permanent 

 in any species. 



On the other hand, there is some probability that one or both of the species 

 of Hynobius Tschudi, from Japan, enter the family, but this I am not able to 

 establisli. 



It is important to observe the significance of the features defining this family. 

 One only, of the eight assigned, is what may be termed a morphic character ; 

 the shortened form of the palatine bones, as compared with the posteriorly 

 produced laminae of the Salamandridaj, being neither assumed after possession 

 of the latter structure, nor identical with the immature stage of the same, so far 

 as yet known. The two families do not appear, after the brief examination 

 we have given this point, to be developmentally related. The presence of 

 dentigerous plates onthe parasphenoid in the Plethodontidae is a character of 

 the same kind. 



The embracing of the frontals by the adjacent elements is a developmental 

 feature, being characteristic of the larval condition of various families. 



The membranous condition of portions of the walls of the cranium, including 

 that of the vestibule, is a persistence of an immature stage of the Salaman- 

 dridse. 



The biconcave vertebrae constitute a similar persistence of a larval feature. 



* See description of Plethodon intermedius Baird, and Plethodon croceater 

 Cope, from the West Coast, at the end of this paper. 



1867.] 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The presence of pterygoids has the same significance with reference to other 

 families. 



The ossification of the carpus, tarsus, and of the premaxillaries, are charac- 

 ters in which this group develops beyond the larval condition which is per- 

 manent in the family of Plethodontidas. 



Thus of eight characters two are morphic, and six developmental ; of the six, 

 two are of advanced development, and four of repressed development, as com- 

 pared with other families. 



The characteristics of the genus Amblystoma, the only one of the family, are 

 as follows : 



Palatine series of teeth in the same line, though often interrupted. 



Quadratojugal bone wanting. 



Tongue attached by its whole base, but with a narrow free margin on all 

 but the posterior portion. 



Digits 4 — 5, free, not connected by natatory membrane. 



A stratum of crypts more or less thickened on the parotoid region, and along 

 the superior lateral region of the tail. 



A series of mucous pores around the orbit, and for some distance anterior 

 to it. 



With respect to the caudal crypts, they are much less developed in the group 

 of which A. tenebrosum Baird is the type than in the others. 



The larvai are characterized by the long slender processes of the three 

 branchial lamina, which bear the vascular fimbriae, rather than the laminte 

 themselves, as in some other genera. The internal nostrils are confined be- 

 tween the maxillary series of teeth and the palatine arch, which is concentric 

 with the former and near to it, and is continued backwards on each side, in 

 line with a similar series on the pterygoid bones. A relation of nostrils to 

 palatine teeth similar to the above is permanent in Amphiuma, and one inter- 

 mediate between it and the adult condition of Amblystomae of groups III. and 

 IV. characterizes Protonopsis. 



The tail and back have a free dermal margin, but there is none on the limbs 

 or digits. The tail is short and deep. 



The general anatomy of the larvte is reserved for the completion of this 

 monograph. 



The following are some of the most readily observed characters which are 

 assumed by the Amblystomae at the period of their transformation : 1, the series 

 of teeth on the splenial bone is shed; 2, the carpus and tarsus ossify ; 3, the 

 tail narrows and lengthens ; 4, the branchiae disappear ; 5, the tongue enlarges, 

 and covers the floor of the mouth ; 6, the pterygo-palatine series of teeth be- 

 comes more nearly transverse ; 7, brightly colored pigment is deposited in the 

 chromatophora; of the derm. These changes are stated in the order of their 

 occurrence. But in some of the protean species this order is not exactly ob- 

 served in all individuals, and in consequence of the assumption of one or the 

 other character of maturity in advance of another, the number of species has 

 been supposed to be greater than it is. The same irregularity in the success- 

 ional appearance of structures is well known in the earlier periods of embryo- 

 nic life, as stated by Von Baer in the Scholia of his Entwickelungsgeschichte. 

 In the chick, different portions of the vertebral axis, and the abdominal plates, 

 va&y or may not appear in the usual order or succession. 



In Amblj'stoma the approximation of the period of reproduction to that of 

 transformation varies with the species, and it is evident that, the closer this 

 approximation under the above principle of variation, the more protean will 

 the species be. As we know from the experiments of Hogg, Dumeril and others 

 that metamorphosis is greatly hastened or delayed by the conditions of tem- 

 perature and light, what would not be the effect, on individuals of such a pro- 

 tean species, of a change of topographical situation, such as the elevation or 

 depression of the land ? And I have no hesitation in saying that if the peculi- 

 arities of series of individuals of A. tigrinum and A. m a v o r t i u m, in the 



fDec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



169 



respects above enumerated, were permanent, they would characterize those 

 series as species, as completely as any that zoologists are accustomed to recog- 

 nize. For the evidences on this head, see the discussions of those species below. 



The experiments of Hogg above alluded to are as follows, as given by him in 

 the Annals and Magazine of Natural History. 



He placed a number of impregnated ova of frogs in vessels arranged at regu- 

 lar distances from the light, in a cave. The lessening degrees of light were of 

 course accompanied by a corresponding, but much less rapid decline in tem- 

 perature. The resulting effects on the metamorphosis may be tabulated as 

 follows : 



Mean Fahr. 



Mo. Day. 60° 56° 53° 51° 



3 11 Egg Egg Egg Egg 

 20 Larva free. * * * 

 25 * Larva free. * * 



31 * * Larva free. Larva free. 



4 10 Larva very large. * * * 



22 M-etam. complete. Larva large. Larva large. Larva small. 

 8 11 Metam. compl. * * 



28 Metam. compl. * 



10 31 Metam. compl. 



Other experiments, which will not be quoted now, are equally conclusive as 

 to the effect of light and heat on this process. 



The distinction between maturity, or adult age, and complete development, 

 must be borne in mind. The former condition is attained when the ova are 

 fitted for impregnation, and the spermatozooids are capable of accomplishing 

 that result. Development may or may not advance much beyond this period. 

 As one or more periods in the life of every species is characterized by a greater 

 rapidity of development (or metamorphosis) than the remainder, so in propor- 

 tion to the approximation of such a period to the epoch of maturity or repro- 

 duction, is the offspring liable to variation. 



The great difference between the different species, and between individuals 

 of the same species in this respect, may be illustrated by the following com- 

 parison between the size of the animals at the time of losing the branchiae, so 

 far as known, and that to which they ultimately attained : 



Species. Size at loss of branchlse. Average full size. 



In. Lines. In. Lines. 



A. jeffersonianum 1 5-75 6 



A. punctatum 1 10 6 6 



A. conspersum 1 10-5 2 7-5 



A. opacum 2 2 3 9-5 



A. texense 2 1 ? 



A. microstomum 2 35 4 



A. talpoideum 3 (perhaps too large). 3 9-5 



A. paroticum 3 7-5 (not smallest). 7 2-5 



.... 13 7 to 8 to 10 



A. tigrinum | ^ ^ 



... "13 9-5 to 8 9 



A. mavortium \. 



In this connection it is desirable to ascertain how far characters distinguish- 

 ing undoubted species fall into the line of successional changes common to all 

 the species. An answer to this question would solve an important part of the 

 inquiry as to the origin of species. We cannot go into it exhaustively at this 

 time, but direct attention to these characters in the synoptic table. The follow- 

 ing are developmental characters which distinguish known species: 1, the di- 

 rection of the palatine series of teeth ; 2, the length of the body and tail, as 



1867.] 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



compared with the width of the head, is greater in large and old individuals of 

 A. tigrinum; 3, the widening of the muzzle and greater separation of the 

 external nares ; 4, the spotted, as distinguished from the uniform coloration. 



Characters to which no such relation can be assigned: 1, the number of 

 costal folds, whose interspaces correspond with the vertebrae ; 2, the number 

 of phalanges. 



The complete monography of this genus being reserved for another occasion, 

 the description of the Siredons is not now attempted. Suffice it to say that 

 both Prof. Baird and myself have had evidence, for some time, that some spe- 

 cies described by Prof. B. under this name, from our south-western regions, 

 are only undeveloped Amblystomse ; and Prof. Dumeril, in the Jardin des 

 Plantes, has actually observed the complete metamorphosis of a Mexican spe- 

 cies.* 



In the following pages little more than a review of the species is attempted. 

 Their clear discrimination has been hitherto a desideratum. Baird, in the 

 first synopsis published, enumerates eight ; Gray in 1850 catalogues ten, after 

 we exclude some species of other genera erroneously included. Dumeril like- 

 wise, including species of other genera, gives five true Amblystomse. Hallowell, 

 1858, increased the number to sixteen. In the present essay, the species of 

 the family described number nineteen, seven new ones being added. I must here 

 express my acknowledgements to Prof. Baird, who has placed his MSS. notes 

 at my disposal, and which I have adopted whenever they expressed the results 

 of my own observations. Thus the diagnoses of nine of the species, and por- 

 tions of those of two others, are, with certain modifications, from his pen. The 

 materials on which the essay is based are the unequalled collections of the 

 Smithsonian Institution, which goes beyond all others in the department of 

 Urodela. Probably the second best collection existing, that of the Academy, 

 has also furnished its numerous types, and many little known species, mostly 

 described by the late Dr. Edw. Hallowell. 



After the following examination of the transitional features of the species, 

 the value of many of the supposed species heretofore described will be better 

 estimated. 



Synopsis of species, 



I. Series of teeth along the external fissure of the internal nares. Plicae of 

 tongue radiating fiom its posterior portion. Parotoid glands not forming 

 an ovoid distinct mass. Four phalanges in fourth toe.y 



A. Costal grooves ten ; 



*. Vomerine series three. 

 Head broad, width 3-5 to groin ; muzzle contracted. External 

 nares much closer than internal ; palatine series convex 

 backwards; tail short, compressed; blackish-brown, grey 

 speckled talpoideum. 



B. Costal grooves eleven. 

 It. Vomerine series three. 



/3. No, or one indistinct plantar tubercle. 



Middle series transverse or concave behind posterior margins 

 of nares; width of head in specimens of three inches greater 

 than one -fourth length to groin, in adult, 4-7 times ; black 

 above, with gray fascise ; larger opacum. 



Teeth as in the last ; width of head in small specimens 3-5 to 

 groin, in adults 4 5 times ; a strong dorsal groove and longer 

 tail; black above, with a series of round yellow spots on 

 each side the back punctatum. 



* See a highly interesting account of this event by Prof. Dumf ril, Annales des Sciences 

 Naturelles for 1867, Is'o. iv. p. 229. 

 t Vide an exception under A. mavortium Bd. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 171 



Median series of teeth convex, advancing beyond posterior mar- 

 gin nares ; width of head much less than one-fourth length 

 to groin ; tail short, no dorsal groove ; lead colored, with an 

 inferior lateral, and usually superior series of small yellow- 

 ish spots conspersum. 



fid. Two distinct plantar tubercles. 



Median series of teeth straight, nearly divided ; external nares 



much closer together than internal ; width of head more than 



one-fourth length to groin; muzzle very short ; tail much 



compressed ; blackish above, with large irregular yellow 



spots, confluent on sides ; below yellow bicolor. 



C. Costal grooves twelve ; raucous pores on each side the 

 muzzle. 



a. Larger species with two distinct plantar tubercles. 

 0. No canthus rostralis ; head longer. 

 External nares as widely separated as inner; frontal and nasal 

 regions very convex in transverse section; teeth in four dis- 

 tinct series, forming together a V, with concave sides pro- 

 jecting between the nares ; body long, tail short ; color 



brown obscurum. 



External nares nearer together than internal, on account of 

 narrower muzzle ; brown, with usually small yellow spots ; 

 brown always predominating ; teeth continuous, or slightly 



interrupted externally tigrinum. 



External nares as widely separated as internal ; the muzzle 

 broad obtuse ; brown yellow spotted, the yellow spots large, 

 often excluding the ground color ; teeth continuous, or 



slightly interrupted externally mavortium. 



External nares as widely separated as inner ; the muzzle broad 

 obtuse ; dark brown, with vertical yellow spots on sides ; 



teeth in four distinct series, in a nearly transverse line trisruptum. 



/?/?. Canthus rostralis distinct ; tail longer than head 

 and body. Head shorter. 

 External nares nearer together than internal ; muzzle obtuse, 

 head small, width five times to groin ; front convex ; vomer- 

 ine teeth in one series slightly convex forwards ; yellow, with 



irregular brown bands above xiphias. 



a^. Smaller species. Teeth in three series. No or one 

 indistinct plantar tubercles. 

 External and internal nares equidistant ; width of head 4-5 to 



5 times in length to groin ; length of eye 2-5, or a little less * 



in width between anterior canthus of same ; tooth series 

 transverse ; lead-colored to black, with or without pale or 



distinct lateral spots jeffersonianum. 



Inner and outer nares equidistant ; width of the long oval head 

 5-5 to 6 times in length to groin ; length eye fissure 1-75 (to? 

 twice) in width between anterior canthus of same ; tooth 



series slightly convex ; lead-colored, uniform platinenum. 



^a^es equidistant; width of head 5 times to groin; muzzle 

 contracted; eye fissure 1-66 between anterior canthus of 

 same, once to nostril ; median dental series convex forwards. 

 A broad grey band on vertebral line of tail and body, ex- 

 panding on occiput; sides dark reddish-brown macrodactylum 



II. Series of teeth extending to external fissure of inner nares ; 

 lingual plicae radiating from behind ; parotoid glands 

 forming a distinct ovoid mass. 



1867.] 




172 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



«. Teeth in three series (no canthus rostralis or plantar 



tubercles) ; fourth toe with three phalanges. 



Nares equidistant, both approximated ; median series of teeth 



nearly straight, short ; width head 4-5 times to groin ; eye 



fissure 1-7 times in width between anterior canthus; limbs 



large, toes short. Uniform brown paroticum. 



III. Series of teeth not extending beyond inner line of nares ; 

 lingual plicffl radiating from behind ; no distinct parotoid 

 mass. 



a. Two series of teeth (canthus rostralis distinct) ; no 

 plantar tubercles ; fourth toe with three phalanges ; 

 twelve costal furrows (species large). 

 Vomerine series transverse or directed backwards ; muzzle pro- 

 longed considerably beyond nares ; brown, marbled with 



dark brown tenebrosum. 



Vomerine teeth in two sigmoids, which converge in advance of 

 nares ; muzzle shortly rounded from external nares ; uniform 



hlack aterrimum. 



aa. Two series of teeth ; fourteen costal grooves ; fourth 

 digit with four phalanges. 

 Teeth arched, between inner nares: head one-fourth to groin 

 (in small sp.) ; eye one-half width between canthus ; muzzle 

 broad, outer nearer than inner nares ; brown, with a series 

 of lighter spots on upper part of sides ; below yellowish ; 

 muzzle and tail marbled with the same texanum. 



IV. Series of teeth not extending beyond inner margin of 

 nares ; lingual plicffi radiating from a median longitudinal 

 furrow of the tongue ; no distinct parotoid mass (species 

 small). 



a. Two series of teeth (no canthus rostralis) ; fourth toe 

 with four phalanges. 



Mandible shorter than muzzle; head elongate, width bet'neen 

 eyes behind equal from same to nares ; width of head 6-5 

 times in length to groin ; black, with numerous narrow grey 

 annuli on body and tail cingulatum. 



Mandible longer than muzzle: head short, broad ; width be- 

 tween eyes behind equal from same to end muzzle ; body 

 stouter ; width of head 6k to 7 times in length to groin ; lead- 

 colored, with a few grey shades below microstomum. 



Amelystoma talpoidedm Gray. 

 Catal. Bfetr. Grad, Brit. Mus. ; Hallowell, J. A. N. Sc. Phil. iii. 351 ; Baird (?) 



1. c. i. 288. Salamandra talpoidea Holbrook, N. Amer. Herpetology, iii. 117, 



pi. 29, 1838. 



Shortest, stoutest, and most clumsily formed of all the terrestrial Arn.hhjsto- 

 mata. Character of skin, as to glands, pits, etc., much as in A. punctatum and 

 opacu/n. A row of large pores on the head, interior to the eye and nostrils, 

 extending anterior to the latter; this passes behind and beneath the eye, 

 reaching forward nearly to the nostrils. A patch on the cheeks above the 

 lateral groove, and another below it, probably extending forward along the 

 lower jaw. 



The head is very broad, and larger, if anything, wider, than the body ; be- 

 coming constricted at the neck. Its width is about equal to the distance from 

 snout to gular fold (thus wider than long), and contained about 3J times to 

 the groin. The eyes are superior, and rather small ; separated anteriorly by 

 nearly three lengths of the orbit, about one orbit from the nostrils, which are 

 separated about IJ orbits. The muzzle is rather angular. The upper jaw is 

 visible beyond the lower, when viewed from below. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



The body is short, squat and depressed; there are ten costal grooves on the 

 side. 



The tail is contained about IJ times in the rest of the animal. It is much 

 as in A. opacum, but higher, though without a crest. 



The digits are rather long and slender, scarcely different from those of^. 

 opacum. 



The palatine teeth are in a transverse series of three sections. The middle 

 section is not interrupted along the median line. In the type it is slightly 

 concave anteriorly, scarcely reaching to the under line of the inner nares, 

 and behind the range of the lateral sections, which begin a little interior to 

 the outer line of the nostrils. The middle and laveral sections are separated 

 by the width of the inner nostril. In another specimen the middle patch is 

 nearly straight, in another composed of two arcs concave anteriorly. 



The tongue is thick, fleshy and adherent, though the edges are free at the 

 sides ; less so at the top. Its width is not more than half that of the head. 

 The papillose portion is separated posteriori}' by the extension forward of the 

 plain basal portion of the tongue, although there is no groove, and exhibiting 

 two prominent cornua to the tongue proper. The papillous ridges are longi- 

 tudinal, and nearly parallel. 



In alcohol this species is a light brown above, paler beneath, irregularly 

 sprinkled, blotched and marbled with silvery or plumbeous gray of a lichen- 

 like character. A carefully executed drawing, made from the specimens when 

 alive, shows the ground color to be a dark brownish or liver black, more livid 

 on the sides, and perhaps lighter beneath ; everywhere sprinkled with the 

 silvery-grey dots, of larger size, on the back. The upper part of the tail is of 

 a purer brown than elsewhere, and is bordered by a series of obscure blackish 

 spots, seen also near the lower margin ; a few similar dusky spots appear 

 scattered on the back. The iris appears to be a dark brown, without metallic 

 lustre. 



A series of specimens from Prairie Mer Rouge, La , is quite similar. Some of 

 these appear to have just completed the change from the tadpole state, and the 

 tail is higher, more compressed, and somewhat crested ; the toes shorter and 

 flatter ; the papillose cornua of the tongue more indistinct. 



Length from snout to transverse line of mouth -30 



" " gular fold -55 



" " groin 1-90 



" " behind anus 2-30 



" " end of tail 3-80 



" of tail 1-50 



Width of head -52 



Length fore arm -46 



" hind leg from knee -56 



Extent of hind legs 1-70 



Greatest height of tail -31 



" width at same place ,. -15 



Catalogue No. No. of Spec. Locality. From whom received. 



3906. 5 Liberty Co., Ga., Dr. Jones, sp. desc. 



3879. 6 Prairie Mer Rouge, La., J. Fairie. 



3972. 1 Near Cairo, 111., R. Kennicott. 



Amblystoma opacum Baird. 

 J. A. N. Sci. Phila., i. 283; Hallowell, 1. c, iii. 351. Salamandra opaca Gra- 



venhorst, Uebersicht Zool. Syst. 431, 1807; Delic. Mus. Vratislav. i. 75, tab. 



X. 1829. S. fasciata GT^an, J. A. N. S. i. 350, 1818; Holbrook, N. Amer. 



Herpetology ; Storer, Mass. Rept. ; Dekay, Geol. Surv. N, York. 



Body swollen, thick, cylindrical, depressed. Skin perfectly smooth, although 

 under a lens everywhere showing minute simple pores or pits connected with 



1867.] 




174 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACABEMY OF 



the glands, which are seen everywhere in the body and tail, except perhaps in 

 the lower part of sides, belly, and beneath the head ; on the tail, however, they 

 are more developed on the upper half. There are no regular patches of more 

 conspicuous pores on the head and parotids, as seen in A. punctatum. 



Head rather broad, depressed ; its greatest width about three-fourths the 

 length from snout to gular fold, and about two-ninths the distance to insertion 

 of hind legs. Length of mouth half that to gular fold, which is interrupted on 

 the nape. A constriction behind the angle of the mouth, with a lateral groove 

 (or ridge) connecting the two, as in punctatum. Distance from snout to gular 

 fold not quite three and a half times in that to insertion of hind leg. The eyes 

 are moderate ; the pupil circular. The general relation much as m. punctatum. 



Body nearly cylindrical, but decidedly depressed. No indication of a dor- 

 sal furrow. Eleven well-marked costal furrows, including the inguinal. 

 There are about four pelvic furrows; those on the base of the tail are distinct 

 for a time, but gradually become fainter. 



The tail is oval or elliptical in cross section, though without any indication 

 of a keel. It is nearly cylindrical at base, though slightly compressed ; be- 

 coming more and more so to the pointed tip. It is thicker above than below, 

 and, measured from beneath the anus, is contained one and a half times in 

 rest of the length. The lateral groove on the tail is less prominent than in A. 

 punctatum. 



The digits are linear, depressed, but without any indication of web or mar- 

 gin. The third or longest finger is one-third the distance from its tip to the 

 elbow (contained three times) ; the lateral ones are quite short. The fourth 

 toe is longest; contained two and a half times in the distance from its tip to 

 the knee. The third, fifth, second and first are successively shorter, or the 

 fifth and second are about equal. The distance between the outstretched toes 

 is contained about once and two-sevenths the length from snout to behind 

 anus. 



The tongue is thick and fleshy, as in A. punctatum, though larger in propor- 

 tion, and filling the mouth more. The teeth are in one transverse line, in three 

 series, much as in punctatum. The central is a double arc. The lateral series 

 are not so far forward, or pass more obliquely backwards, so that their exterior 

 end is even behind the convexity of the central series, not anterior to it. The 

 lateral series is about half the length of the central, with a decided interval. 



In alcohol the general color is a livid black. There is a dorsal series of 

 transverse slate-colored bands, which widen at each end into a V on the back, 

 but are more linear on the tail. These varj- in number ; about seven on the 

 body, and as many on the tail. Sometimes more or less : sometimes confluent 

 with those before and behind them ; sometimes interrupted in the middle. 

 They do not descend one-third the depth on the sides, being confined abruptly, 

 and well defined to the dorsal region. There is a similar patch on the snout. 



Total length 3-80 Length to tail 2-35 



Length of mouth -30 " of tail 1-50 



" to gular fold -53 Width of head -45 



" to fore leg -60 Length ft-om elbow -45 



" to hind leg 1-90 " " knee -55 



The principal difference in form and structure between this species and A. 

 punctalumare seen in the absence of any dorsal furrow, and a less prominence of 

 that on the side of the tail. The limbs are more feeble, the head narrower, 

 the tail shorter, etc. 



In specimens from Prairie Mer Rouge, 4033? the body is thicker and more 

 clumsy, the legs weaker, the toes shorter, than in Pennsylvania specimens. 

 The teeth, too, appear more transverse, and there is little or no interval be- 

 tween the middle and lateral combs. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 175 



Amblystoma punctatum, Baird. 



J. Ac. Nat. Sc. Phil. i. 83. Hallowell, 1. c. iii. 351. Lacerta punctata (1767), 



L. Syst. Nat. ed, 13, 370, 45. Salamandra p. (1802) Lacep. Hist. Quad. Ov. i- 



245, 314 (ed. of 1819). L. rtiaculata (1802), Shaw, Gen. Zool. Amph. 304. 



Salamaiidra venenosa {18031), Bart, in Daud. Hist. Rept. viii. 229 (in lett. 



from Raf.) Lacerta subviolacea [1809), Bdrt. Am. Phil. Trans. 0. S. vi. p. 



108, pi. 4 fig. vi. S. subv., DeKay (1842), N. Y. Rept. 74, pi. 2, f. 36. ,&'. 



venenosa (1838), Holb. Herp. 1st ed. iii. 105, pi. 24 (1842), 2d ed. v. 67, pi. 



22. Amblystoma subviolaceum, Tschudi. 

 Body swollen, stout, cylindrical. Head depressed. Skin smooth though 

 pitted with pores, most numerous on the tail. Of these there is a patch larger 

 over on the parotid region, and another on the top of the head inside of the 

 orbit and extending anteriorly in a straight line towards the nostrils, and pass- 

 ing backwards semicircularly behind the eye ; a double row round the edge of 

 the lower jaw ; a pair on each intercostal space along the side of the body, and 

 a row on each side of the top of the tail ; the latter indicated generally by a 

 whitish dot. 



Head broad, depressed ; width nearly equal to distance from snout to gular 

 fold, and nearly one-fourth the distance to insertion of hind legs. Length of 

 mouth, along axis of body, nearly distance from snout to gular fold, which is 

 nearly continuous across the nape. There is a convolution behind the angle 

 of the jaws, interrupted above and below, and a furrow connecting the two 

 along the parotid region, and extended in a lateral line to the orbit. Distance 

 from snout to gular fold contained 3^ times in distance to insertion of hind lip ; 

 (four times in another specimen). 



The eyes are moderately large ; the length of the orbit contained 4J times 

 in distance from snout to gular fold; about once in distance from the nostrils 

 and about once in the distance between the two nostrils ; nearly twice in dis- 

 tance between the anterior extremities of the orbits. 



Body nearly cylindrical ; perhaps slightly depressed, and swollen a little in 

 the middle. On each side are eleven costal grooves, including unguinal and 

 axillary ones, strongly marked, and nearly continuous above and below. 

 The axillary is, however, quite inconspicuous. Four more of these furrows to 

 behind the anus, where the last is confluent with the first caudal furrow. 



1867.] 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



These become less and less distinct to near the middle of the tail. There is a 

 slight groove down the middle of the back. 



The tail is oval in section, the larger end of the oval below; becoming more 

 and more compressed to the tip, without indication of any ridge. There is a 

 lateral indentation along the whole length, which is about equal to the dis- 

 tance from its back to the snout. In alcoholic specimens the tail is bent or 

 curved, sometimes upwards, sometimes down, sometimes laterally. 



The digits are nearly cylindrical, or slightly depressed, without web or mar- 

 gin. The third or longest finger is contained about 2 J times in the distance to 

 the elbow. The second finger reaches to the last articulation ; the fourth to 

 the penultimate. 



The fourth toe is largest, contained 2J times in the distance to the knee ; the 

 3d, 2d, 5th and 1st successively shorter. The distance between the outstretched 

 hind toes is rather more than one and one-third the length to behind anus. 



The tongue is thick, fleshy and attached, although free at the edges, except 

 behind. It is about two-thirds the width of the upper jaw, nearly orbicular, 

 though the outline of the papillose portion is a little emarginate behind. It 

 almost seems as if the tongue were capable of closing round an object in its 

 centre as in the hollow of the hand. 



The transverse line of teeth is in the parts or combs; a central about two- 

 fifths the width of the head, and separated from the lateral by a slight interval. 

 The central patch is nearly straight in its middle, but the end curves a little 

 forwards, and continuously with the lateral portion of the line, from a curve 

 concave backwards, bounding the orbit. The inner edge of the posterior nares 

 marks the extent of the central row of teeth. The lateral combs of teeth are 

 about half the central. 



The color of the specimen described is, in alcohol, of a dark liver brown 

 above, abruptly light olivaceous beneath. On each side of the back is a series 

 of nearly circular rounded spots, about the size of the orbit; about three on 

 each side of the head, 8 or 9 on the body, and as many on the tail, where they 

 are sometimes confluent. These spots are white in alcohol, but yellow in life. 

 Along the sides, and more sparingly beneath, are some scattered quite small 

 whitish spots, not very conspicuous. The legs are of the color of the under 

 parts, not of the upper. They show some of the small light spots seen on the 

 sides. 



Total length of 3950 (1) 6-50 Tail, behind anus 310 



" mouth -40 Width of head "65 



" togularfold -82 Arm from elbow -60 



" groin 2.80 Hind leg from knee "80 



" behind anus... 3 40 



In the preceding paragraph I have described a specimen from Abbeville, 

 S. C, as a locality nearest to that whence the original of Linnaeus' description 

 was obtained. An examination of a large series of specimens from different 

 localities shows certain difi'erences which, however, are not of a character to 

 indicate specific separation. Carlisle specimens have longer and more cylin- 

 drical toes than those from Louisiana. 



The external appearance of the skin varies considerably with the strength of 

 alcohol used for preservation, and probably with the season when captured. 

 The animal when alive is perfectly smooth and lustrous, and readily exudes a 

 large quantity of a white milky juice from the upper half of head, body and 

 tail, or from the dark colored portion. This is due to the presence of glands 

 closely implanted in the skin, the pores of which are sometimes quite incon- 

 spicuous, sometimes very distinct. On the tail they are much largest and 

 deepest, and the lateral groove marks their inferior boundary, being there 

 implanted vertically. When these pores are very full of their milky juice, and 

 the alcohol is very strong, the contraction of the skin between the mouths of 

 these pores gives more or less the appearance of rounded, thick-set granules 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 177 



of rather large size. This also gives rise to an apparent depression of the 

 digits, the skin forming quite a margin. 



The proportions of the body vary slightly. The tail is generally not so long 

 as the rest of the animal, the groin being more usually nearer the middle point 

 of the axis. Younger specimens appear to have shorter tails. 



There is considerable diversity in the curve of the transverse series of pala- 

 tine teeth. In nearly all more northern specimens the central row is formed of 

 two arcs, concave anteriorly ^~^—^, more or less continuous with the lateral, 

 which ai'e anterior and convex anteriorly. The two central arcs are continu- 

 ous at their inner ends, forming an inverted angle at the axial line. Some- 

 times, however, as in most of the specimens from Prairie Mer Rouge, this central 

 angle is wanting, and there is only a single arc or curve, concave anteriorly. 

 In the type specimen described the central row of teeth is nearly or quite 

 straight (which is quite apt to be the case in very large ones), while in one 

 specimen of Xo. 4684 it is convex anteriorly. The transverse extent of this 

 middle line of teeth varies. Sometimes there is ciuite an interval between it 

 and the lateral, while in 3930, from New York, they are continuous, without 

 appreciable interruption. 



There are no very great variations in the pattern of coloration ; generallj^ the 

 outer surface of the limbs is colored like the back, in which case there are one 

 or more large rounded light spots. The under parts are generally dark-bluish ; 

 the sprinkling of small white specks on the sides and beneath varies consider- 

 ably in prominence. The large dorsal spots are always nearly circular, and 

 vary in number; generally only one series on each side. 



In living specimens from Carlisle, Pa., the iris is dark brown, without metal- 

 lic color, scarcely distinguishable from the pupil. The color of the animal 

 above is a deep anthracite black, beneath dull livid. On each side the dorsal 

 line is a series of large, nearly circular, gamboge yellow spots, somewhat sym- 

 metrically disposed. These vary from 10 to 20 from head to tail, and sometimes 

 are larger than the eye, usually about its size. On the sides and beneath are 

 sparingly scattered small bluish-white specks. The spots, both yellow and 

 bluish-white, are sometimes found on the legs. 



In younger individuals the yellow spots are brighter, and the black ground 

 deeper. 



Locality. From whom received. 



Abbeville, S. C. J. B. Barrett (spec, descr.) 



Quebec. R. Nettle. 



Grand Coteau, La. St. Charles Coll. 



St. Louis, Mo. Dr. G. Engelman. 



Lake Superior. J. H. Slack. 



Centre Co., Penn. S. Brugger. 



Somerville, N. Y. 



Root River, Racine, Wis. Prof. Baird. 



Cleveland, 0. Dr. Kirtland. 



Meadville, Pa. 



Halifax, N. S. Dr. Gilper. 



Fort Towson, Red R., Ark. Dr. L. A. Edwards. 



Knoxville, Tenn. Prof. Mitchell. 



Westport, N. Y. S. F. Baird. 



Alleghany Co., N. Y. Dr. Stevens. 



Carlisle, Pa. Prof. S. F. Baird. 



Virginia. W. McDonnald. 



Cleveland, Ohio. Dr. Kirtland. 



Prairie Mer-Rouge, La. Jas. Fairie. 



W.Northfield,CookCo.,Ill. R. Kenuicott. 



Amblystoma co.\spersdm Cope. 

 Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1859, 123, 



This is one of the smallest species of the genus, and though less stout than 

 1867.] 12 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the two preceding, is more so than the A. j e f f e rsonianum, which it resem- 

 bles in general features. 



Skin everywhere smooth. In some specimens only a series of pores may be 

 traced along the superciliary region, and in a line to near the nostrils : several 

 are on the parotoid region. The skin of the body is remarkably free from visible 

 pores, while, as usual, the superior part of the tail is thickly studded with 

 them. 



The head is a broad oval, its width entering the length to the groin 4-5 

 times or a little more, and is a little over three-fourths distance to gular fold. 

 Eye fissure equal to nostril and 1-75 between anterior angles, and a little more 

 than distance between nostrils. The last distance is a little less than that 

 between inner nares. Posterior canthus of eye a little anterior to canthus oris, 

 anterior canthus opposite middle of upper lip from anterior point. Muzzle 

 longer than chin. 



Furrows behind the orbit inconspicuous, but present. Costal grooves eleven. 

 Tail short, everywhere compressed, measuring from its origin (at end vent) to 

 axilla or to gular fold. No marked dorsal groove. 



The limbs are short, the digits long and slender. When appressed the fin- 

 gers reach to the keel or beyond bases of fingers. Digits subcylindrical, anteri- 

 orly 3d longest, then 2, 4, 1 : posteriorly 4, 3, 2, 5, 1. Two small tubercles on 

 edges of sole. Expanse of outer toes equal from end muzzle to posterior can- 

 thus eye. 



Teeth in three patches, the median longest, commencing opposite inner mar- 

 gin nares and convex to between nares or nearly so in one specimen. Tongue 

 longer than broad, the laminar portion prolonged in two lateral bands posteri- 

 orly. 



Lines. 



Length from snout to gular fold 4-^0 



" " groin 16-25 



" " end anus , 19-3 



" «' end tail 31-9 



" of mouth on median line 3. 



" fore arm and hand from elbow , 3. 



" leg and foot from knee. 5. 



Width of head 3.7 



General color above leaden, below pale leaden, the latter usually bounded by 

 the line of the limbs, but in one specimen rising as high as the line of the eye. 

 Lower parts of sides and sides of tail more or less varied with small whitish 

 spots, the former often in a regular line. A similar line on the upper part of 

 the sides is present in some specimens, in others wanting. The end of the muz- 

 zle is sometimes pale marbled. 



Eight specimens of this species before me confirm its validity in every respect. 

 Specimens of the developed young of both A. o pa cum and A. punctatum 

 are of considerably smaller size, and maintain their peculiar colorations, and a 

 greater width of the head, etc. 



From the appended localities from which it has been sent, the range is seen 

 to be extensive : 



Mus. Smithsonian. 

 No. No. Spec. Locality. Donors. 



3934 3 Carlisle, Pa. S. F. Baird. 



3918 1 « " 



Mus. Academy. 

 1 Charleston, S. C. Dr. Hallowell. 



(Spec, descr.) 2 Liberty Co., Ga. John Le Conte. 



(Type) 1 Chester Co., Pa. E. D. Cope. 



Amblystoma bicolor, Hallowell. 

 Proceedings Acad. Nat. Sci. ISST, 215. 

 In the type specimen of this species, the usual supraorbital and lateral 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



frontal series of large pores are not discernible. In a second specimen they 

 are well marked. In the former the skin is quite smooth, with eleven lateral 

 grooves, and the folds of the throat and side of the head not strongly marked. 

 The head is broad and obtuse, entering the length to the groin 3-75 times. 

 The front convex is profile, containing the length of the fissure of the eye in 

 its width between anterior canthus of same 2-75 times. The same measure is 

 a trifle less than distance from same to nostril, and one and a quarter the dis- 

 tance between the latter. These are much closer together than the inner nares. 

 Distance between outer margin of nares equal length from end muzzle to mid- 

 interorbital space. 



Dorsal line with a faint groove. Tail much compressed, equal from end 

 vent to canthus oris. Body stout and heavy. The limbs are stout and the 

 digits not elongate and depressed The appressed limbs overlap by the length 

 of the toes. Two well marked palmar tubercles. Third and fourth toes nearly 

 equal, fifth a little longer than first. 



Tongue large, disciform, not emarginate behind ; palatine teeth in three 

 entirely transverse series, the interruption taking place considerably inside the 

 line of the nares. The teeth themselves are in numerous rows on each of their 

 bony crests, presenting a brush-like arrangement. Medium series notched 

 behind. 



In. Lines- 

 Length from end muzzle to gular fold 9-75 



" " to groin , 2 7-2 



■' ■ " to end vent 3 2-3 



" " to end tail 5 10-05 



" of mouth (straight) 6-1 



" forearm and foot 6-75 



" lower leg and foot 8-8 



Width of head 8-75 



Color above olive brown, below yellowish, olive shaded in the middle. The 

 inferior yellow rises on the sides as short blotches ; above them are several 

 ill-defined yellowish spots. Parotoid region yellow, with a distinct black ver- 

 tical bar. Limbs brown cross banded ; tail yellow with brown spots. 



The above description is taken from the type from Beesley's Point, N.Jersey, 

 in Mus. Academy. Another specimen, 4G92, from the same locality, in Mus. 

 Smithsonian, differs in two important particulars ; the palatine teeth are not 

 brush-like, but are confined to the crest of the ridge, and the tail is a little 

 longer than the head and body. The muzzle is rather longer and the mucous 

 pores more numerous. It may belong to another species, as the ^1. tiffrinum, 

 which it much resembles, but its eleven costal folds are a notable peculiarity. 

 The A. bicolor, though nearest the tigrinum^ appears distinct, after a careful 

 scrutiny of many individuals of the latter. 



Amblystoma TiGRi.f um, Baird. 

 Journ. Ac. Nat. Sci., Phila., i. 284. Salamandra tigrina Green, v. 116, 1825. 

 Triton tigrinm Holb., N. Amer. Herp. 1842, 579, DeKay, Nat. Hist. New 

 York. 5'aZawa«(/m /wnrfa Sager, Am. Journ. A. S. 1839,322. Amhltjstoma 

 luridum Baird, J. A. N. S. i. 284, Hallowell, 1. c. iii. 383. Amblystoma episcopus 

 Baird, 1. c. 292, Hallowell, J. A. N. S. iii. 354. Salamandra ingens Green, 1. c. 

 1831, 254. Amblystoma Hallow. Helcrotriton Gray. 



General form very thick and massive, although the head is proi)ortionally 

 small in mature specimens ; not as broad as the body. The skin appears quite 

 smooth when fresh, especially when covered with its epidermis. On removing 

 this, however, the skin is seen everywhere closely covered with shallow pits, 

 interspersed with granule-like projections of the glands. There is an indis- 

 tinct line of pores on each side of the head interior to the eye, but they can 

 scarcelj- be traced elsewhere. 



The parotid region is much swollen, wider than the skull, and about equal 



1867.] 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



the distance from snout to gular fold. The width of the jaws is contained 

 about 4^ times in the distance to the groin, a little more thau five to the end 

 of the anus. The gular fold is ver}' distinct and even overlapping. Over 

 behind the jaws and from the eye, obliquely along the side of the head and 

 neck, are also very strongly marked. 



The eyes are moderate, not prominent ; the pupil similar. They are distant 

 from the nostrils one orbit length ; separated anteriorly 2 J orbits. The nos- 

 trils are separated one orbit. There is a decided constriction at the neck. 



The body is swollen and large; a little depressed at its circumference, at 

 the widest is nine-tenths the distance from snout to groin. There are twelve 

 well marked costal furrows, from fore to hind leg ; five pelvic ; the 4th and 5th 

 uniting just behind the anus. 



Tlie tail is about equal to the distance from snout to groin ; it is subquad- 

 rate at base ; \^ as high as wide, but becomes immediately oval in section, 

 larger below, and more and more compressed to the lip. The edges are, how- 

 ever, rounded to the terminal third, where they gradually become sharp. 



The legs are stout, thickened and rather short in proportion. The digits 

 are much depressed ; short, triangular in shape, taperiug from the broad base 

 to the tip, which are hardened and somewhat horny in appearance. The free 

 portion of the longest is about one-third the total length of the limb from 

 elbow to knee ; sometimes even less. In the individuals which live on land, 

 the digits appear longer and more cylindrical. The expanse of the outstretched 

 toes is about four-fifths the distance from snout to groin. 



The tongue is fleshy, broad, about half the width of the head, and with the 

 outline of the papillose portion slightly emargiuate behind. 



The palatine teeth of this species extend across the palate very nearly from 

 one side of the upper jaw bone to the other. The series is only interrupted 

 along the median line ; sometimes scarcely so. The line is obtusely angularly 

 rounded anteriorly, the concavity behind reaching forward to about opposite 

 the middle of the internal nares. The slightly convex anterior branches di- 

 verge backwards regularly nearly to the line of the inner nares, where the angle 

 of divergence becomes still greater, and the line becomes nearly straight, or 

 even concave, anteriorly. 



There are considerable variations in the outline of the curve of palatine 

 teeth, as will be given below. 



In alcohol this species is of a dark livid blackish brown, paler beneath. On 

 the upper surface, generally on the side of the tail and limbs, are nearly circu- 

 lar yellow spots, about the size of the eye, and generally sharply defined. 

 These are much like those of A. piinctatum, though not quite so distinct, and 

 although a faint indication of arrangement in ten dorsal rows may be traced, 

 yet these are less symmetrically disposed, and single ones are scattered 

 between the others along the back. Similar scattered spots are seen along the 

 belly, which again is bordered, as on the lower part of the sides, with larger, 

 more quadrate spots, which are more or less confluent, giving rise to elongated 

 blotches, overpowering the ground color. This is also sometimes the case on 

 the belly, and almost always on the chin, or beneath the head and neck. 



The rounded spots above sometimes vary considerably in size, and occa- 

 sionally are almost wanting. Sometimes they are more or less confluent, in 

 which case there is usually a predominance of yellow on the belly. In a large 

 series of specimens, I have not observed any vertical yellow bands on the side 

 of the tail. 



In the young just perfected from the larva the upper parts are dark brown, 

 the under parts uniform, of a brownish yellow apparently. The yellow spots 

 next make their appearance, becoming more and more prominent to a certain 

 age. In very old specimens the dorsal spots become indistinct, but may 

 generally be discovered when held under water or alcohol. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



Dimensions of 4691. 



Prom snout along axial line to end of mouth -55 



" " " gular fold 1-00 



" " " groin 3-50 



" " " end of anus 4-40 



" " " " tail 8-00 



Width of head -80 



Pore arm from elbow -80 



Hind leg from knee 1-10 



The largest specimen before me measures ten inches (4003, Racine). In this 

 the tail from behind anus is as long as the rest of the animal. DeKay de- 

 scribes one of eleven inches in length. 



Measurement of a typical specimen of the var. tigrinum. 



4692.(1.) Length from snout to end of mouth along median line -45 



" " " gular fold -90 



" " " groin 3-10 



" " " behind anus 3-Y5 



" " " ' tip of tail 7-55 



" of tail 3-80 



Width of head -TO 



Fore arm from elbow -VS 



Hind leg from knee...' -95 



Greatest height of tail -65 



Stretch of hind legs 2-80 



In this variety the most appreciable difference in color consists in the ten- 

 dency to transverse or vertical bars of yellowish on the side of the tail more 

 or less confluent. 



I find no difference in form between the two series of the supposed A. episcopum 

 now at hand, 3899 and 3887, and young specimens of A. luridum, as 3971, 

 from Marietta, Oliio. The color above is liglit reddish brown, the sides a 

 sharply defined dusky brown ; the belly of a lighter shade of the color of the 

 back. There are some very obsolete indications of whitish spots in the belly 

 and sides. I am by no means convinced that these are not light colored varie- 

 ties of ^-1. luridum. I have, however, not been able to find the original speci- 

 men. 



The following examination of the nature of the variation to which this 

 species is subject, and their causes, may be added to the preceding diagnosis 

 from Baird's MS. 



The color varieties are as follows : 



a. Uniform brown above, yellow below, sides darker brown ; 3887, 3899, 

 three specimens. 



(i. Blackish brown, with small scattered yellow spots above, and large ones 

 on the sides; the majority of the individuals; Nos. 4003, 4097, 4691, 3974, 

 3895, 3966, 3983, 3970, 3950, 2971, 4692, 4706, and eight in Mus. Academy. 



y. Nearly equally and not coarsely marbled above with blotches of deep 

 brown and bright yellow ; 4059. 



cT. Entirely yellow, with brown linear patches irregularly arranged : type of 

 A. ingena from New Orleans ; one specimen. 



The above coloration varieties, it will be observed, coincide in part with 

 those of A. m a V r t i u m. 



The conditions of preservation of immature stages in the dentition are as 

 follows : 



A. Palatine series nearly entirely transverse behind the internal nares ; 

 eight specimens, all from New Jersey, except two from Root River, Wisconsin, 

 4093, and one from Louisiana, 4706. All are fully developed, and nianj'^ of the 

 largest size ; one of 4093 has the postnarial dental series separated on one 



1867.] 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



side. Of these, the largest example of the species is from Root river ; with 

 the other mentioned, the width of the head enters the length of the groin 4-5 

 times ; and the tail is longer than head and body ; the same relations are seen 

 in two New Jersey specimens. Two from the latter State have the long tail, 

 but the width of the head is only one-fourth length to groin, while one of the 

 same have the longer body (4-5 times) but the tail shorter than head and 

 body ; two specimens have both the short body and tail. The elongation of 

 the tail and body scarcely occurs in connection with any other type of denti- 

 tion, and it is mentioned here to show the greater general completeness of de- 

 velopment is these Eastern individuals. 



B. Series slightly arched, not passing between nares. Two specimens large. 

 In No. 3993 both outer segments are well separated from tlae median ; the tail 

 is longer than head and body, and width of jaws 4-33 to line of groin ; this 

 individual is aberrant. 



C. Series angulated, not extending anterior to anterior margin inner nares ; 

 Nos. 3956, 2971, 3983, 3895, 3899a, embracing five specimens. Three large 

 sp. in Academy Mus. and tjpe of A. ingens Green in same. 



This last specimen is peculiar in some respects, as already noted in coloration. 

 The head is relatively a little wider than in other specimens of the same large 

 size, the width entering the length to the groin four times, as in individuals of 

 the smaller average size of the species. The length of the eye fissure enters 

 2-5 times the interorbital width, instead of twice, though in one of equal size 

 from Root River it enters 2-2 times. The nares are not more than usually sep- 

 arated, hence the muzzle is more contracted than usual ; it is also depressed 

 in profile, but not more than in some other specimens. I believe it not to be a 

 distinct species, but a form dependent on causes similar to those producing 

 others here enumerated, and not more permanent than these so long as those 

 causes are not universal. In other words, it is a large specimen with teeth, 

 head and tail of adult character, but body and muzzle more larval. The fold 

 on the hind leg and outer toe, mentioned by Green, is not marked, or different 

 from that seen in the species generelly. 



No. 4097, sixteen specimens from W. Illinois, two have the series divided into 

 four ; 4093, two sp. ; No. 4691, Cook Co., 111., thirty -four specimens, one has 

 the three interruptions, and five, with one of 4093, a median, making two series 

 of teeth. 



Of series C, the tongue is of normal size and the branchi^ absorbed, ex- 

 cept in twelve specimens. No. 4691, of which five present stumps of the 

 branchiae; and two, 4097, where both the tongue is very small and the gill 

 stumps remain. The width of the head is -25 to groin, and the tail never 

 longer than head and body. 



D. Median series arched, extending anterior to anterior margin of inner 

 nares. One specimen, 3966, is fully developed in all other points. 



E. Palatine series angulated, extending anterior to inner nares' anterior bor- 

 der. Nos. 4057, 3974, 3070, two of 4093, 3887, 3897b, four of 4097, nine of 

 4691. All of these have the short head and tail given in the preliminary 

 diagnosis. The small or larval tongue occurs in one of 4093, 3o70, 3974, nine 

 of 4691, two of 4097 ; branchial rudiments remain in two of 4097, and nine of 

 4691. No. 4057 is remarkable in having a very small tongue and short deep 

 tail, no stumps of branchiae, and brilliant coloration, with large size and gene- 

 ral adult appearance. It compares with certain specimens (4693, 3984), of 

 A, mavortium in this strong retention of some larval characters, and like 

 them is from northern Minnesota, a region noted for its cold and late seasons. 



Measurements of No. 4057. 



Length of snout to end of gape of mouth -55 



" " gular fold 1-00 



" " groin 3-50 



" " behind anus 4-30 



[Dee. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



Length of snout to end of tail (about)... 8-55 



" of tail about 4-25 



Depth of tail (at end vent) 1-95 



Width of head 1-00 



Fore arm from elbow '90 



Hind leg from knee I'lO 



Stretch of hind leg 3-40 



A specimen entirely similar except in size and coloration, was found by Dr. 

 Horn, near Beesley's Pt., New Jersey, a well known locality for the species. 

 The tail is remarkably thick and deep at the base, and only equal from its 

 basis to the canthus of mouth. A groove in the dorsal line behind, tail not 

 grooved. The color is a dai'k leaden brown, sprinkled everywhere with small 

 yellow spots; spots large, on tail; belly yellowish. Total length 6 in. 5 1. 



From the preceding investigation we gather that larval characters in this 

 species are in part only cotemporaneous ; that the branchiae are lost first, the 

 tongue develops next and the teeth last. That the development extends in 

 older age to the lengthening of the body and tail. That the progress may be 

 arrested at a time when different degrees of combination of these and other fea- 

 tures exist. That reproduction may take place at any of such different stages, 

 is evident from the condition of development of the ova of many of the 

 various specimens ; and it is known to take place in other species at earlier 

 stages than any recorded here as adult. 



It is also to be noted that specimens from New Jersey are almost always 

 more fully developed than those from the western regions ; the former is a 

 warmer district than the latter. Of two specimens from New Orleans, how- 

 ever, one only exhibits the dentitional characters of the New Jersey individ- 

 uals. The characters common to the western individuals have occasioned the 

 opinion that it was another species, which was called A. luridum. 



Axolotls, or reproducing Amblystoma larvas from Mexico, have recently 

 reproduced in the Garden of Plants, as before stated, and,^the offspring have 

 lost most of their larval features remarkably early. Prof, Dumeril finds the 

 teeth of these specimens to resemble those of the supposed A. luridum, and 

 adds that they may belong to that species. This is not probable from the 

 habitat. The A. mavortium extends into Northern Mexico, as far as the 

 limits of the Fauna Nearctica, and it is more likely to prove to be this species. 



It must be observed that this large species, whose description follows, 

 differs absolutely only in the broader muzzle, and wider separation of the 

 outer nares. The A. t i gri n um retains in this case a feature cliaracteris- 

 tic of the laiva of A. mavortium and of all other Siredon species. The 

 range of color variation is only partly different in the two, but the majority 

 of specimens of each belong to different color types. Each occupy a differ 

 ent geographical area, both of which are well marked in the distribution 

 of many other reptiles. Nevertheless, ultimately I think it quite possible that 

 they will have to be viewed as developmental forms like so many other 

 supposed species, which are not sufficiently isolated from one another at the 

 present time to warrant them distinct places and names in the system. 



The Siredon of the Table Land of Mexico is different from those of the 

 species described in this essay, as already- pointed out.* As the metamor- 

 phosed stage, if existing, has not yet been obtained, I introduce it into this 

 synopsis by name only. 



Cat. No. No. of Spec. Locality. From whom received. 



3979 Detroit. Dr. A. Sager (type of ^. luridum). 



4691 40 (ad.) W. Northfield, 111. R. Kennicott. 



4097 30 N. Illinois. 



4003 6 Racine, Wis. Dr. Hoy. 



3983 1 Rock Island, 111. J. D. Sergeant. 



1867.] 



*Proc. A. N. Sci., Phil., 1866, 300. 




184 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Ambltstoma mbxicanum Cope. 

 Gyrinus m. (1800?) Shaw and Nodder, Nat. Misc., pi. 342, 343. Siren pisci- 

 formis (1802?) Shaw, Gen. Zool. Amph., p 612. Siredon axolotl (1833) 

 Wagler, Jones' Amph., pi. 20; Axolotl (1811) Cut., Rept. dout. in Humb., 

 Obs. Zool. 104, pi. 14. Hypoethon pisciformis (1829) Gravenhorst, Del. Mus. 

 Vratislav., p. 89. Acholotes guttatus, (July, 1844,) R. Owen. Ann. and Mag. 

 Nat. Hist, xiv., p. 23. 



? Lakes, City of Mexico. Dr. C. Sartorius. 

 4. Table Land, Mexico. 



Amblystoma mavorticm Baird. 

 Journ. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1847, 292. Hallowell, 1. c. iii. A. proserpine Baird. 

 Hallowell, 1. c. 354. A. maculatum Hallowell, 1. c. 355, Proceed. 1857, 215. 

 Camarataxis maculata Cope, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1859, 122. A. nebulosvm 

 Hallowell, Sitgreave's Rep. Zuni and Colorado, J. A. N. Sci. iii. 352. A. cali- 

 formense Graj', Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1853, 11, Tab. Desm.iostoma macu- 

 latum Sager, Peninsular Journ. Medicine, 1858, 428. 



Palatine teeth in a transverse series, more or less angular anteriorly ; reach- 

 ing to the posterior border of the inner nares, or one diameter beyond. The 

 angle sometimes flattened or rounded. The series scarcely or not at all inter- 

 rupted on the median line; never (?) on the limbs, which are generally a little 

 undulatory. 



Inner nostrils separated by the same space as the outer. 

 Tongue broader than long ; more than half the width of the head ; thick and 

 fleshy. 



Body very heavy, with 12 costal furrows. Head very broad, contained about 

 32- times in distance from snout to groin. Tail about equal to the same dis- 

 tance, much compressed from the base. Males in breeding season with a dis- 

 tinct fin from near the base of the tail above, and from beyond the middle be- 

 low ; tail more oval at other seasons. Cloacal region of male much swollen, 

 emarginate — angular behind. 



Legs moderate ; digits much depressed, very broad at base ; triangular, and 

 adapted for swimming. Free portion of digits about one-third the distance 

 from their tips to elbow or knee. 



General color dark brown or blackish ; in alcohol varied with blotches of 

 yellow. These are disposed along the median line of the back and tail (ex- 

 tending down on the sides) as transverse ellipsoid bands of large size, perhaps 

 equal to the space between the costal grooves. The blotches of opposite sides 

 sometimes alternate, sometimes are opposite, and are frequently confluent here 

 and there, which is generally the case on the tail, where they form yellow, en- 

 circling rings interrupted below. Along the sides of belly and lower part of 

 the sides is a similar series of yellow ellipses, but usually larger; those of the 

 same side usually somewhat confluent, sometimes entirely so, leaving a dusky 

 central line of the belly. The limbs are blotched black or yellow. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



The relloTT sometimes predomiuates so as to almost form the ground color, 

 encroaching largely, too, on the yello^v of the belly. In general, however, 

 there is little or no tendency to anastomosis or reticulation of the dark inter- 

 spaces as in an allied species. Smaller rounded irregularly scattered spots of 

 yellow are seldom if ever seen as in A. var. luridnm. 



The ground color is sometimes uniformly dusky above, although the lighter 

 transverse ellipsis can usually be made out ; perhaps they are always appre- 

 ciable in life. 



In the preceding general description I have endeavored to represent the dis- 

 tinguishing features of what I believe to be a single species, varying very much 

 in shape of palatine teeth, proportions, color, etc. From the synonymy it will be 

 seen that I combine under the oldest name of mavoriium, proserpine, and neba- 

 losum. Although the type specimens of these supposed species differ suf- 

 ciently among each other, yet there are sufficient connecting links in the large 

 series before me, and it would be no difficult task to pick out a dozen more 

 specimens each as distinct from each other and the above as the latter are 

 among themselves. 



One great source of the diversity of character in diff'erent specimens of this 

 protean species is to be found in the very different size of specimens in the 

 same stage of growth, while in some the full metamorphosis will have been 

 accomplished with a length of three or four inches ; in others the branchias are 

 still visible at a much greater size. In one female specimen of 8 inches in 

 length (4978) the branchiae are still appreciable, the fissures in the neck not 

 being closed up, although the ovaries and oviduct would indicate that it was 

 captured when in full breeding condition. This embryonic tendency is almost 

 always indicated further by shorter gape of the mouth; the tongue smaller, 

 flatter, more adherent, not at all or very little free at the edges, and little or not 

 at all papillose, but exhibiting a cartilaginous surface. The palatine teeth in 

 the embryonic state are alone usually more arched anteriorly ; more or less 

 parallel with the maxillary series ; less prominent above the soft palate, and 

 extending to a less distance laterally. The digits are more depressed, their 

 outlines more oval than triangular, the 3d and 4th toes and 2d and 3d fingers 

 more nearly equal. 



The development of the diff'erent embryonic conditions may be carried on 

 very unequally in diff'erent specimens, so that it is very unsafe to base specific 

 characters upon small individuals, or even upon large ones in which there is 

 the slightest indication of the branchial slits or their tufts. 



The same adult individual differs, too, in diff'erent seasons. While some spe- 

 cies appear to reside almost entirely in water, others do so only partiallj-. 

 Even the same specimen may pass a more aquatic life in one year than in 

 another. A more persistent residence in water is shown by the broader and 

 more depressed digits, higher and more compressed tail, and more or less de- 

 cided ridge (sometimes even membranous). I have no doubt that an animal, 

 while possessing these features in marked degree when in the water, would lose 

 them to a measurable extent after a lengthened residence on land. This aqua- 

 tic habit is generally greatest during the breeding season. 



The preceding diagnosis and remarks are taken entire from Prof Baird's 

 manuscript. I will further extend and illustrate the same, and add that the 

 names -i californirnse and A. macula/ urn have been applied by Gray and Hallo- 

 well, and Deamiostoma maculatuni, by Sager, to forms of this species. 



Various changes of form during the late metamorphosis of this animal have 

 been already enumerated in the prefatory remarks on the genus. A feature of 

 difference mentioned above, the varying length of the fourth digit, appears to 

 be quite independent of other developmental conditions. In a specimen in the 

 Mus Academy, from Kansas, this digit has but three phalanges on both feet; in 

 another from the same locality 3 on one, 4 on the other foot, and the same oc- 

 curs in No. 3994 Mus Smithsonian. In all the other specimens at my disposal 

 they are, as in this section of the genus, 4 — 4. 



1867.] 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The varieties of this species, which may be distinguished by their coloration 

 are as follows : 



a. (ca 1 iforniense.) Blackish, with slightly paler belly; a series of 

 large oval yellow spots on lower part of side and tail (in one specimen a few 

 on each side of dorsal line). System of mucous pores well developed, especi- 

 ally below ramus of the jaw on each side. From California only ; eight speci- 

 mens ; No. 4081. 



/?. Brown, yellowish below ; larger lateral and smaller dorsal yellow spots, 

 irregularly arranged. Fewer mucous pores on each side the gular region. 

 Fourteen specimens ; mostly from Kansas and Nebraska, one from Missouri, 

 one from lat. 38°, two from New Mexico, and two from Chihuahua. Nos. 4065, 

 4040, 3955a, 4062, 4084, 4908, 3984a. The tj-pe of ,4 nehulosum belongs here. 

 There is no material difference between this and the coloration of A. tigri- 

 n um. 



y. Ground brown, crossed by transverse yellow bands, which inosculate 

 more or less on the dorsal region, so as to obscure, sometimes almost entirely, 

 the ground ; mucous pores as in the last ; belly with a median dark or black 

 band. Sometimes the vellow is shaded with olive. Nos. 4613, 4705, 3990, 

 4703, 4694 to ^99, 3955,"'4078, 4079, 4o66, 3982, 5359, 4082, 3994. No. 4020 

 might be assigned to either (i or y. 



S. Ground olive, with numerous small brown spots ; otherwise as above. 

 No. 4693 and the type of A. maculatum in Mus. Academy. 



t. Brown above', yellowish below ; otherwise as above ; 3984b, 4702, 3992, 

 3955b ; from most diverse localities. 



?. Color as in y, the yellow leaving only inosculating lines of brown; no 

 frontal, nasal or mandibular series of mucous pores ; 4698 one specimen 



So much to the principal of ornamental variation ; the following are the 

 forms resulting from unequal development of parts ; the reader will observe by 

 the numbers how partially they coincide with each other and with the preceding. 



Type A. Palatine teeth in a gentle arch convex forwards, not extending be- 

 tween nares : the teeth (but not the ridge) interrupted inside the series behind 

 the nares. Nos. 4908 and 5359 (2 sp.); in all respects fully grown, the former 

 not more than half the size of the usual type. Approach distantly A. tris- 

 ruptum Cope. 



Type B. Palatine teeth forming a straight series on each side, meeting at a 

 more or less open angle between the nares. Most of the specimens : Nos. 4702, 

 3992, 4705, 4613, 4065, 4040, 4698, 3990, 4703, 4694 to '99. 4081, 3955, 4079. 

 Of these the angle of the tooth series does not extend beyond the anterior mar- 

 gin of the nares in twenty-six specimens, of which one exhibits a small, unde- 

 veloped tongue, and none have the stumps of the branchiae remaining. In 

 eleven specimens the angle extends beyond this point (in 3990 and another ap- 

 proaching an arch in form) ; and of these the tongue is small and larval in six, 

 and in one of these stumps of the branchiae remain ; this last is of medium size 

 only, but Nos. 4693 and 3694 are large, the first very large ; they add the lar- 

 valVharacter of a short, deep tail. It is to be noted that these specimens are 

 from Minnesota and the borders of British America, regions subject to great 

 cold, to which cause we may. with much probability, assign their characters. 

 Two individuals presenting the same peculiarities are described under the head 

 of A. tig ri num. Of two specimens from Chihuahua, fully developed, the 

 teeth are of the two types: of eight from California one presents the second 

 type only ; it is otherwise fully developed. 



Type C. The postnarial portion of the palatine series has nearly or quite 

 assumed its transverse position, while the median series i-emains in its larval 

 arch, extending more or less in advance of the nares. Eight specimens, four of 

 the largest size : 3955a, 4C78, 4062, 4084; two Mus. Academy, one type of A. 

 maculatum Hall. Of these two have the small tongue and traces of branchiae, 

 while four are fully developed in these respects. 



Type D. Palatine series forming a parabolic arch from one extremity to the 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



other, extending in advance of the nares. Three specimens, two of them of full 

 but not large size ; one of the former full double the size of others from the same 

 locality (the Platte Valley), which are referred to Types C and B, has larval 

 tongue and branchial stumps. The others, 4066, with larval tongue, but the 

 branchiiE absorbed. 



Here may be mentioned a remarkable specimen, 3982, which is in all other 

 respects fully developed, where the larval arch of teeth remains, but has be- 

 come open aud slightly transverse, extending but little beyond the anterior 

 margin of the nares. It is intermediate between Types D and A, and is the 

 result of a retardation in development of the larval arch, while Type B is 

 produced by a retardation or preservation of the oblique lateral series of the 

 larva, at the expense of the arch. 



I add here a description of the var. cal if o r ni e n se, for the sake of de- 

 termination of varieties and species that may be found hereafter. 



The proportions of this variety and general character of the glands, pits, etc., 

 appear much like those of A. var. luridtnn, in some respects of A. punctatum. 

 I do not detect any patches of large pores on the top of the head and neck 

 in one specimen, but in another a series of large whitish dots beneath the 

 epidermis seems to indicate their presence. Of these one patch is placed on 

 top of head within the orbit; another on the parotid region. Some pores, 

 however, are distinctly visible behind the angle of the mouth, sending for- 

 ward a series along the margin of the lower jaw, under the chin. 



The head is broad but also long, the width being decidedly less than the 

 distance from snout to gular fold. The gape is very large, the length nearly 

 two-thirds the width. The width in seven specimens is contained 4J times 

 in the distance from snout to groin ; in one specimen four times only. The 

 eyes are separated only by 2h lengths of the orbit. 



The tongue is very large, nearly filling the whole lower jaw. It is three- 

 fourths the width of the head. 



There is quite a difference in the character of the palatine teeth of the 

 ten specimens before me. In both the central part of the series forms a 

 decided V; the angle sharp, and reaching to the line of the anterior margin 

 of the inner nostrils. The limbs extend backwards slightly in an S shape 

 to a short distance behind the inner nostrils and in line with their inner 

 border, and then connect with the external segment of the palatine series, 

 which extend (nearly transversely but a little oblique backwards) to a line 

 with the outer margin of the inner nostrils. In both specimens the two 

 sides of the palatine series are not symmetrical and of unequal length, 

 one specimen showing a distinct interval between the central V and the 

 lateral segment, as well as at the angle of the V; in the other these four 

 elements are continuous. 



There appear to be 12 costal furrows. The tail is compressed but not 

 high ; in one specimen it is as long as head and body ; in another shorter; 

 shows a sharp ridge above from near the base and from the terminal half 

 below in one specimen; not so much in another. The limbs are well de- 

 veloped ; the digits depressed and triangular, but less so than in many 

 aquatic Amblystoviata, as A. luridum. 



The color of the species is blackish in alcohol, rather paler below. On each 

 side of the belly or lower part of the sides of body and tail is a series of 

 bright sulphur yellow spots, mostly nearly circular, sometimes oblong, and 

 varying in size, though generally larger than the orbit. The spots are few 

 in number — five or six from head to tail, and four or five on the side of 

 tail. 



In one of the specimens are some smaller rounded spots on each side of 

 the dorsal line ; three or four ia each series; these are not symmetrically 

 disposed, as in A. punctatum. 



As Dr, Gray remarks, this species has a certain resemblance externally to 

 A. punctatum, which, however, never exhibits the series of spots on the side 



1867.] 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



of belly and lower part of sides of body and tail, the spots being confined 

 to the vicinity of the median line above. In Tar. calif ornieme, when dorsal 

 spots occur, they are less regular, though of much the same size. In var. 

 luridum the yellow spots are much smaller, more numerous and more 

 scattered; very prominent on the belly. There are many essential differences 

 in form from punctatum, as the more widely separated external nostrils, the 

 anterior angle of the palatines, the depressed short digits, more compressed 

 and sharply ridged tail, etc. 



A description of a specimen of color var. y may also be useful for reference. 



The form is very heavy and clumsy ; the head very broad : the gape twice 

 as wide as long. The inner nares are about as far apart as the outer. The 

 gular fold is very distinct and overlapping; the neck much constricted. 



The body is very large. There is no dorsal groove distinctly evident. 



The tail is much compressed, and elevated. In the specimen selected there 

 is a sharp ridge above and below, near the tip. 



The limbs are rather short; the digits very broad at the base, triangular, 

 and much depressed. There is little appreciable difference in the length of 

 the third and fourth toes. 



The tongue is very broad, wider than long, filling the rami anteriorly, and 

 considerably more than half the width of the head. 



The palatine teeth form a nearly continuous series, nearly straight, but slightly 

 obtuse anteriorly where it reaches to the line of the posterior border of the 

 inner nares. Laterally the series extends one diameter of the inner nares be- 

 yond their outer margin. The limbs of the very obtuse V are not straight, 

 but slightly bow-shaped. There is a slight interruption along the median 

 line. 



The ground color is purplish-black, with transversely elongated blotches of 

 yellow. These appear to be arranged in one dorsal series on each side the 

 median line of the back (coming up to it, and the opposite ones sometimes 

 confluent), and another on the side of the belly of larger size, and ascending 

 high on the sides. The latter are sometimes more or less confluent on the 

 same side. The central region of the belly is generally of the dark ground 

 color. There may be six or eight of these blotches from head to base of tail, 

 and as many on the side of the tail, where, indeed, they generally form yellow 

 rings, interrupted below. The limbs are blotched black and yellow in about 

 equal proportions. 



Professor Sager has described, with considerable care, a branchiate sala- 

 mander, as given in the synonymy, which I think is a larva of this species. 

 His description points out sundrj' details of its external and internal organiza- 

 tion, which do not differ from those noticed in this species. 



In the same connection it may be mentioned that Prof. Van der Hoeven has 

 recently described a "perrenni branchiate," which hecalls Sirenodon. which 

 appears to correspond with the larva of Spelerpes, while Necturus* is identical 

 with that of Batrachoseps. 



Proportion'tl dimensions. 



Specimen 4081. Yar. californiense. Petaluma. Soft sp. 



Width head, to distance from snout to gular fold 1} 



" " '■ groin 42" 



From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from snout to groin... 3f 



'• '' •• " behindanus, 4^ 



Distance anteriorly between eyes, in length of orbit 25- 



" from eyes to nostrils " " 1;^ 



" between external nostrils, " " If 



" " internal " " " not 2 



Width of tongue, to width of head |- 



* See Journal A. N. S., 1866. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Free portion of longest finger contained in distance from elbow to tip, not quite 3 



" " toe •• " knee to tip 3 



Length tail from behind anus, to rest of animal less. 



3Ieasuremen(s. 



Length (measured along axis of body) from snout to gape "40 



" '' •> '• gular fold -85 



" " " " armpit 1-25 



" " " " groin 3-00 



" " " " behind anus 3-75 



" " " " end of tail 6-20 



Width of head -70 



" tongue -45 



Length of orbit -18 



Distance between eyes anteriorly -40 



" " outer nostrils 30 



" " inner nostrils -30 



" " armpit and groin 1-75 



Height of tail where highest -30 



Breadth " " -18 



Free portion of longest finger -28 



From elbow to tip of longest linger -80 



Free portion of longest toe -30 



From knee to tip of longest toe -90 



Distance between outstretched toes 2 85 



Proportional dimensions. 

 Specimen 3955 (1). Var. mavortium. Fort Bliss. 



Length of gape of mouth, to its width ^ 



Width, to distance from snout to gular fold equal. 



" " " groin cont. 3^ times. 



" " " behind anus 4.| " 



From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from snout 



to groin 3^ 



From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from snout 



to behind anus 4.|- 



Distance anteriorly between eyes, in length of orbit 3 



" from eyes to nostrils " " 1-j- 



" between external nostrils " " nearly 2 



" " internal '• " " 2;|- 



Width of tongue, to width of head rather more than ^ 



Free portion of longest finger contained in distance from 



elbow to tip 3 



Free portion of longest toe contained in distance from knee 



to tip nearly 4 



Distance between outstretched toes in length from snout 



to groin once. 



Length tail from behind anus, to rest of animal nearly equal. 



Measurements. 



Length (measured along axis of body) from snout to gape -60 



" " " " gular fold loO 



" " '•' " groin 3 50 



" " " " behind anus 4-50 



" «' " " end of tail 400 



Width of head...., 1 05 



" tongue -55 



Length of tongue -45 



" orbit -22 



1867.] 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMT OF 



Distance between eyes anteriorly "65 



" " outer nostrils -40 



" " inner " , "45 



Height of tail where highest -75 



Breadth " " -45 



Free portion of longest finger -30 



From elbow to tip of longest finger -95 



Free portion of longest toe -32 



From knee to tip of longest toe 1'15 



Distance between outstretched toes 3-50 



Froportional dimensions of 

 8pec. 4082, tj^pe of var proserpine. Tamaulipas. 



Length of gape of mouth, to its width more than half- 

 Width, to distance from snout to gular fold not quite equal- 



" " " groin nearly 4. 



" " " behind anus 4^-f- 



From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from snout to 



groin 3j 



From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from snout to 



behind anus 4 



Distance anteriorly between eyes, in length of orbit 3« 



" from eyes to nostrils " " 1 



" between external nostrils, " " 2 nearly. 



•' " internal " " " 2 " 



Width of tongue, to width of head more than half. 



Free portion of longest finger contained in distance from 



elbow to tip 3 times. 



Free portion of longest toe contained in distance from knee to 



tip 3 times. 



Length tail from behind anus, to rest of animal less. 



3Ieasurements. 



Length (measured along axis of body) from snout to gape -34 



" " ' " gular fold -60 



" " " armpit -90 



" " " groin 2-00 



" " " behind anus 2.40 



" " " end of tail 4-10 



Width of head -52 



Distance between eyes anteriorly '32 



" " outer nostrils "23 



" " inner nostrils -24 



Height of tail where highest "25 



Breadth " " -12 



Free portion of longest finger "20 



From elbow to tip of longest finger -60 



Free portion of longest toe '19 



From knee to tip of longest toe '61 



Distance between outstretched toes 1"75 



Proportional dimensions of 

 Spec. 4G96. Cimarron R. 



Length of gape of mouth, to its width about one-halt. 



Width, to distance from snout to gular fold .■ equal. 



" '• " groin 4 



From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from snout to 



groin 4 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILABELPHIA. 



191 



From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from snout to 



behind anus nearly 5. 



Distance anteriorly between eyes, in length of orbit 3 



" from eyes to nostrils " " 1^ 



" between external nostrils, " " nearly 2. 



" " internal •• " " 2 



Width of tongue, to width of head little over ^. 



Free portion of longest finger contained in distance from 



elbow to tip 3^ 



Free portion of longest toe contained in distance from knee to 



tip 3^ 



Distance between outstretched toes in length from snout to 



groin about equal. 



Width of body compared with that of head equal. 



Measurements. 



Length (measured along axis of body) from snout to gape '55 



" " " gular fold 1-00 



« " " armpit 1'55 



«' « " groin 3-90 



" " " behind anus 4-75 



" '• " end of tail 8 75 



Width of head 1-00 



Length of orbit ... -20 



Distance between eyes anteriorly , -SG 



" " outer nostrils "35 



" " inner " "36 



Circumference of belly 3-75 



Distance between armpit and groin 2-25 



Height of tail where highest -70 



Breadth " " -40 



Free portion of longest finger '27 



From elbow to tip of longest finger -95 



Free portion of longest toe "32 



From knee to tip of longest toe 1"25 



Distance between outstretched toes 3-55 



From whom received. 



Dr. J. Le Conte, tj'pe of spec. 



a i( 



f Capt. Sitgreaves, type of A. 

 \ nehiilnsum. 



Dr. S. W. Crawford. 



Dr. Webb. 



Dr. Henry. 



Dr. Hayden. 



Lt. Bryan, W. S. Wood. 



Dr. Hayden. 



Capt. Beckwith. 



Lt. Bryan, W. S. Wood. 



Dr. Haj'den. 



Th. A. Culbertson. 



Dr. Hayden (proserpinef). 



Dr. W. A. Hammond. 



J. H. Clark. 



Dr. J. H. Cooper. 



J. H. Clark. 



u 



Dr. Edwards, type proserpine. 




192 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



4057 1 New Mexico. Ed. Kern. 



3984 Lac qui Parle, Mian. S. R. Riggs. 



4693 N. Red River, H. B. T. C. Cavileer. 



4081 2 Petaluraa, Cal. E. Samuels, soft spec. desc. 



Numerous specimens from near San Francisco in Mus. Compar. Zoology. 



Amblystoma obscurum Baird. 

 M. S. Species nova. 



In the greatly corrugated condition of the present specimen, it is impossi- 

 ble to make out any satisfactory description of the integuments. They, how- 

 ever, appear much as in the other stout aquatic species. The head is very 

 broad, and the gape unusually large. The internal nostrils are very large ; 

 their width half the diameter of the eye; the distance between their inner 

 borders is the same as that between the outer. The tongue is large, broader 

 than long; its width about two-thirds that of the upper jaw. 



The palatine teeth are in four series collectively, forming a broad inverted 

 V; the angle is anterior, and would be quite sharp but that there is an in- 

 terruption along the median line. The branches reach as far forward as the 

 anterior border of the inner nostrils. They are decidedly concave antero- 

 externally. The two inner anterior sections of the palatine series are each 

 about twice the length of the external ones ; they fall short of the inner bor- 

 der of the inner nares by nearly a diameter of the latter, which space sepa- 

 rates them from the outer section, which, immediately behind the inner nares, 

 are about as long as the latter are wide, and do not pass exterior to their 

 outer border. 



As nearly as can be ascertained, there are twelve costal furrows. The tail 

 is compressed, but not high. 



The color appears to have been of a uniform brown above and on the sides ; 

 brownish-yellow beneath ; on the sides, darker vertical blotches can be de- 

 tected in the single specimen before me; similarly indistinct markings are 

 visible on the tail. 



The very convex frontal region, and the concave interrupted series of teeth 

 alone distinguish this species from the A. m a v o r t i u m of the brown variety. 

 It differs from A.tigrinum in much larger inner nares, and more widely 

 separated nostrils ; the inner borders of the two being at about the same dis- 

 tance, instead of having the latter more approximated. The tongue is wider, 

 as well as the head. The teeth are more V-shaped, reach farther forward; 

 the outline of the limbs of the V is concave antero-externally, and inter- 

 rupted by spaces equal to the wide nostrils ; the outer sections not extending 

 beyond the nostrils. 



Measurements. 



In. Lin. 



Length (along axis) from snout to gape 7-8 



" " " gularfold 12.75 



" " " axilla 1 8-75 



" " •' groin 4 115 



" " " behind vent.. 5 0-15 



" " oftail 3 2- 



" from elbow to tip of longest finger 12.75 



" " knee " " toe 1 4-5 



Width of head at angle jaw 109 



" between eyes anteriorly 61 



" " external nares = 4 5 



No. No. of spec. Locality. From Whom. 



3994 1 Fort Des Moines, Iowa. W. E. Moore. 



Amblystoma xiphias Cope. 

 Spec. nov. 

 The specimen selected as the type of the description has the skin somewhat 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 193 



altered by alcohol, so that an exact description cannot be made of the glands, 

 pits and pores. There does not, however, appear to be any material differ- 

 ence from A. tigrinum in these respects. 



The head appears small in proportion to the size of the animal, and the 

 cheeks unusually swollen ; the width of the head is contained five times in 

 the distance to groin. The mandible projects beyond the end of the muzzle. 

 The eyes are rather small, distant three lengths of the orbit. The inner nos- 

 trils are considerably more distant than the outer. The tongue is large and 

 fleshy, filling the rami anteriorly, and more than half the width of the head. 

 The inner nostrils are quite lateral. 



The palatine teeth form a very obtuse angle anteriorly, reaching to about op- 

 posite the middle of the inner nares, and extending laterally beyond them by 

 about one diameter. There is a slight interruption along the median line, 

 but no appreciable one elsewhere. The limbs of the V are not straight, but 

 form a double curve (scarcely appreciable) on each side. 



There are twelve costal grooves ; others are not appreciable, except those at 

 the base of the tail. 



The tail is very long, considerably exceeding the rest of the animal ; much 

 compressed from the base, though not elevated. Oval in cross section, and 

 only becoming sharp near the tip, without any crest. No grooves are visible 

 along dorsal or ventral outline. 



There do not appear to be any peculiarities in the feet distinguishing it 

 from other aquatic Amblystomas. 



The color of this species is a yellowish-olive : brighter yellow beneath, 

 with more or less anastomasing or reticulating bands of well-defined brown 

 on the back and sides, and a few rounded spots of the same on the belly. 

 These bands in width average perhaps the diameter of the eye, though varia- 

 ble in this respeclk 



Compared with A. tigrinum this species has a proportionally smaller 

 head, much longer tail, and different color ; yellow predominating in the 

 one, and brown in the other. The relationship, however, appears to be very 

 close. The digits perhaps are narrower, though also triangular and de- 

 pressed. 



A large Amhhjstoma mavortiiim, No. 4705, from Fort Union, at the mouth of 

 the Yellowstone, with the same coloration as the preceding, differs in rather 

 shorter tail, the ridge of which is more acute ; broader toes ; and a con- 

 siderably broader and otherwise different head, the width of which is con- 

 tained about four times in distance from snout to groin, not five times. 

 The palatine teeth do not extend laterally beyond the centres of the inner 

 nostrils, which are separated more widely than are the outer. The tongue 

 is larger and more fleshy. The dusky marks on the tail are not reticulated, 

 but transverse, and the under side is dusky, not yellow. This very great 

 and marked difference in the form and size of the head of the two specimens, 

 although that with the smaller head is considerabh' the larger of the two, in- 

 dicates the distinctness of the species. 



Measurements. 



In. Lin. 



Length (along axis) from snout to gape 7-25 



" " " gular fold 1 0- 



" " " axilla 1 11.25 



" " " groin 4 2-5 



" " " behind vent 5 3- 



" of tail 6 



" from knee to tip of longest toe 1 3'1 



Width of head at angle jaw lO'S 



" between eyes anteriorly 6 5 



" external nares 37 



1867.] 13 




191 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Mus. No. No. of Spec. Locality. Donor. 



4135 1 Columbus, Ohio. Leo Lesquereaux. 



Ambltstoma trisruptum Cope. 

 Spec. nov. 



The species is stout and heavy in build ; the head very broad, and much 

 depressed. The skin is granulated by contraction of the alcohol, but in re- 

 spect to glands, pits, etc., appears much like other species. There is, how- 

 ever, a decided tealure in certain particles which crowd the parotid region, 

 and are seen also on the top of the head along the inner margin of the orbit, 

 and perhaps below the eye. I have not noticed this character in any other 

 species east of the Rocky Mountains. 



The head is broad, ovate, rather pointed anteriorly. The inner and outer 

 nostrils nearly the same distance apart. The tongue is broader than long, 

 more than half the width of the head, filling the interspace of the rami ante- 

 riorly. 



The teeth are in four very distinct patches, with decided intervals. They 

 form one transverse series, nearly straight centrally (where they are in a line 

 with the posterior border of the internal nares), but curving slightly back- 

 wards laterally. The two central patches are wider than the lateral, which 

 vary a little in length, and are separated by an interval half the diameter of 

 the inner nares ; their distance from the exterior patches is about twice aa 

 great, the centre of the interval falling about opposite to the inner border of 

 inner nares. The outer patches extend about half a diameter beyond the 

 outer border of inner nares. 



The remaining external characters of the specimen are not different from 

 those of A. t i g r i n u m. 



The colors of the specimen are much obscured by preservation. It appears 

 to have been of a uniform dark blackish or bluish-brown, with a single series 

 of large transversely elliptical blotches of yellow from head to tip of tail, 

 half in body and half in tail, the foremost one rounded, and placed behind 

 the eyes. Those of opposite sides nearly meet on the back, and are contiuent 

 on the upper edge of the tail. 



This is the only species I have seen of the group in which a strictly trans- 

 verse series of palatine teeth behind the eye is divided into four groups. 



Proportional dimensions. 

 Spec. 4068. Ocate River, N. M. ^ . 

 Length of gape of mouth, to its width little more than half- 

 Width, to distance from snout to gular fold not quite equal. 



" " groin 4 times. 



From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from 



snout to groin 3J 



Distance anteriorly between eyes, in length of orbit 3 



" from eyes to nostrils " " 1^ 



" between external nostrils, " " not quite 2 



" " internal " " " 2 



Width of tongue, to width of head over J 



Free portion of longest finger contained in distance 



from elbow to tip little over 3 times. 



Free portion of longest toe contained in distance from 



knee to tip , 3^ 



Distance between outstretched toes in length from snout 



to groin about equal. 



Length tail from behind anus, to rest of animal less. 



fDec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Measurements. 



Length (measured along axis of body) from snout to gape '45 



" " " gular fold -90 



" " " armpit 1-45 



" " " groin 3-15 



" " " behind anus 3-80 



" " " end of tail G-80 



Width of head -80 



" tongue "45 



" orbit -IS 



Distance between eyes anteriorly '50 



" " outer nostrils "22 



" " inner " '30 



" " armpit and groin I'^O 



Height of tail where highest "46 



Breadth " '' -24 



Free portion of longest finger "26 



From elbow to tip of longest finger "90 



Free portion of longest toe "29 



From knee to tip of longest toe '96 



Distance between outstretched toes 3-00 



One spec. 4068. 9 Ocate River, N. M., from John Potts. 



AsiBLYSTOXfA JEFFERSOXIANUM Baird. 



Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. i. 283. Salamandra Green, Contr. Maclurean Lyceum i. 



p. 4, 1827; Holbr., N. Amer. Herp. v. 51, pi. 14. Triton niger Dek:<y, Geol. 



Surv. N. Y. Zool. iii. 85, pi. 15, f. 35. Salamandra gramdata Dekay, 1. c. 



1842, 78, pi. 23, f. 66. Xiphonura jeffersoniana Tschudi, 1838, Class. Batr. 



Gray, Catal. Brit. Mus., 1850, 34. Amblysloma fuscum Hallow., Journ. A. N. 



Sci. iii. 355. -Amb. laterale Hallow., I. c. 352. 



Body decidedly more slender and elongate than \n A. pttnctdtum. Skin 

 everywhere smooth, and showing through the transparent epidermis the ends 

 of the glands, which thickly stud the entire surface. Uader a lens are seen 

 numerous small rounded, shallow pits between the glands, not on them. The 

 contraction of the skin, in stroug alcohol, between these glands, would readily 

 impart a granulated appearance. The glandules are accumulated into a thin 

 stratum above the parotid groove. 



The head is elongated, with the muzzle obtuse or truncate, the greatest 

 width contained one time in the distance to gular fold, and from four and 

 a half to fire times to the groin; the distance to the gular fold is contained 

 three and two-thirds times in that to the groin. The eyes are rather large, 

 and situated far behind. They are distant once the length of the orbit from 

 the nostrils (which are separated by nearly twice ihis length). The anterior 

 extremities of the orbit are distant more than twice this length. 



The gular fold or furrow is distinct, not very prominent above ; that behind 

 the angle of the jaws is inconspicuous, as is the lateral parotid furrow 



There are twelve costal furrows, including the inguinal and axillary. 



The tail is a little shorter than the body and head (measuring from poste- 

 rior extremity of vent.) It is oval in cross section, largest below, though 

 without any ridge or crest. It is little higher than broad at the anus, but be- 

 comes more and more compressed to the tip, the upper and under outlines 

 remaifting nearly parallel for a considerable distance. The anal slit is pro- 

 longed into a groove, which extends beneath the tail to its very tip. 



The tail is curved strongly upwards in the alcoholic specimen, but this is 

 due to the corrugation of the spirit. 



The limbs are largely developed, and the toes very long. The digits cylin- 

 drical, depressed, without any lateral or basal web. The third finger is long- 



1867.] 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



est, then the second, fourth and first. It is one-third the length of arm from 

 elbow. The fourth toe is longest, then the third (but little shorter), second, 

 fifth and first ; it is contained about two and a half or two times in tlie length 

 of leg from knee. The expanse of the outstretched toes is very nearly equal 

 to the distance from snout to the groin. The length of the limbs varies a 

 little ; when extended on the sides they may scarcely meet, or considerably 

 overlap. 



The tongue is thick and fleshy; much as in A. punctafum. 



The teeth are in four patches ; the two central in nearly a straight line, or 

 forming in smaller individuals a very obtu-se y- the angle anterior, but not 

 passing the posterior border of the internal nares ; the sides of the ^ are per- 

 haps slightly concave anteriorly. This patch or line extends to the inner 

 nares, and is there continuous with the lateral patches, which are short, 

 nearly straight, about one-fourth the central patch, and form the posterior 

 border of the inner nares. These are large, far back, and widely separated. 



In alcohol, after long immersion, the specimen is nearly uniform light liv«r- 

 brown, paler beneath, without any spots. 



Length from snout to gular fold •70 



" " groin 2-55 



" " endofanus 3-20 



" remnant of tail 2-50 



Width of head -50 



Length of mouth, along median line -38 



" forearm from elbow -62 



" leg from knee -85 



The specimen from which the preceding description has been taken, is, if 

 not the original upon which Dr. Green's species was founded, at least one 

 collected in the same locality and named by him, liaving formed part of his 

 collection, and presented many years ago by its owner to the Smithsonian 

 Institution. The "light blue spots" so conspicuous in fresh specimens 

 have disappeared. 



Dr. Holbrook, in describing this species has mixed with it the account of the 

 tongue and teeth of Plefhodon glutino^u^:, which it somewhat resembles, but 

 which may be readily distinguished externally by the lighter silvery spots, and 

 much shorter digits. This induced Dr. Hallowell erroneously to make th^ 

 species a synonym of P. glutinosus. The error had its origin, no doubt, in 

 the nearer resemblence of the var. laterale to the latter species. 



A confusion of the specimen described with the type of DeKay's SaJaman- 

 dra granulata, exhibits no appreciable difference except in the darker color, 

 rather more depressed toes, and perhaps more massive looking jaws of the 

 latter, the muzzle a little more pointed ; all uncertain characters iu alcoholic 

 specimens. The palatine teeth are in better preserva-ion than in the speci- 

 men here described. The central patch is interrupted along the middle line 

 and does not extend quite so far laterally. The legs and digits are mui-h 

 lengthened, the figure and description of Holbrook (see DeKay) conveying a 

 very erroneous impression in this respect. The granulation referred to is 

 in part the optical effect of the glands of the skin, showing through the 

 transparent epidermis ; partly the result of contraction of the skin by 

 alcohol. 



In the type specimen there are no symmetrically arranged patches of pores 

 on the head. Their absence may be owing to the long continued preserva- 

 tion of the specimens or to some accidental deficiency. In the type of cjran- 

 nl'itd these are quite visible. They are very distinctly shown in No. 4688, 

 where there is seen a straight series interior to the eye and nostril (not 

 reaching to the latter), bending abruptly behind the eye and passing beneath 

 it. On the parotid region above the lateral groove is a slightly curved line 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



of sis or eight pores, and a shorter straight one above it. Below the groove 

 is a crowded patch which is continued into a simple series along the inner 

 edge of the lower jaw. One or two are seen at the side of the base of the 

 lower jaw, and others along the sides of body. 



It has been stated iliat in the tjpe no indication of light spots was visible. 

 In otliers, however, of more recent preservation, these are quite evident. In 

 the smallest specimen of 399S are visible numerous rounded irregularly disposed 

 light spots on the lower part of the sides, with some scattered over on the 

 belly averaging half the size of the eye, but with faintly delined margins. 

 Some scattered ones are seen on the side of the tail ; these may be plumbe- 

 ous or bluish in life. 



In the largest specimen of 3979, Ripley, Ohio, these bluish spots are 

 quite evident on the side of body and tail. 



Generally the ground color is, of the alcoholic specimen, olive brown, some- 

 times blackish, lighter beneath. The color of the living animal is similar to 

 that above described from alcoholic specimens. 



The youngest specimen examined is about two inches long and is not ma- 

 terially different from the adult, although the two inner palatine patches 

 appear more arched. 



There are two varieties of this species other than the typical, as follows : 



Var. fu scum (Ambli/sfomaju^cnm Hallow.) is dark brown, with an espe- 

 cially dark shade or band along the sides. Type in Mus. Academy from near 

 Hanover Co., W. Indiana. 3697 Mus. Smithsonian, Clarke Co., Va. 



Measurements of 3697. 



Length from snout to end of mouth -30 



" " gular fold -55 



" " groin 1-90 



" " end of anal Slit 2-25 



" " end of tail 3-80 



Widthof head -40 



Fore arm from elbow , , "50 



Leg froip knee -62 



Extent of hind leg 1-80 



Var. laterale {Amhl. laterale Hallow). The length of the fissure of the 

 eye enter the width between the anterior canthi of the same twice only. The 

 color black with large white spots on the sides and tail, and smaller ones on 

 the belly. Size about half the size of the adult of the typical variety, and 

 the medium series of palatine teeth convex forward. The distribution of this 

 form is northward. Specimens 7011 and 5941 from Milwaukee and high land 

 between River St. Lawrence and Hudson's Bay. In Mus. Academy, from Michi- 

 gan and from north side Lake Superior. 



The dark color of the coagulated blood in the vena lateralis gives rise some- 

 times to the deceptive appearance of a color stripe. 



Cat. No. No. of Spec. Locality. From whom received. 



3968 1 Canonsburg, Pa. Dr. F. Bache. 



3979 4 Ripley, Ohio. Dr. Hoy. 



3998 



/ L-±0 ) 



3989 2 New York, N. Y. State Cab. ^^^P^ ""^ '^ If"""- 



lata, DeKay. 



3997 1 Racine, Wis. Dr. Hoy. 



4689 1 Lake Superior. Dr. Hov. 



4690 2 St. Cathdriue,C. W. D. W. Beadle. 

 3888 2(larva)Burlington, Vt. Z. Thompson. 



Also from Philadelphia. 



1867.] 



^},l^ ll2 Cleveland, Ohio. Dr. Kirtland. 



7145 ) 




198 TROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Amblystoma platineum, Cope sp. nov. 



This is one of the more elongate species and in many respects allii d to 

 the A. jeffersonianum. 



The head is oval and the muzzle rounded. The length of the fissure of the 

 eye equals the distance of the nostril from the same, is but little less than 

 the distance between the nares, and half or a little more of the distance 

 between the anterior canthus of the same. Inner and outer nares the same 

 distance apart. Greatest width of head 5-5 to 6 times in length from end 

 muzzle to groin, five sevenths length from chin to gular fold. Canthus of 

 mouth behind canthus of eye. A series of pores along the superciliary, 

 which pass round the orbit behind and below ; a scattered longitudinal series 

 on the parotoid region, and a transverse aggregation of the same on each side 

 below parotoid groove ; a single series of the same for a short distance inside 

 the ramus of the mandible. The parotoid region posses^es a thin stratum of 

 dermal cryptae. 



Costal folds 12 ; the anterior is a little distance behind the axilla. Toes 

 subcyliiidric, similar to that of the A. jeffersonianum; in one specimen 

 (type) they are separated by nearly an intercostal space when the limbs are 

 pressed to the sides ; in another they meet. Tail rounded above at base, 

 finally much compressed, but not elevated, equal, in one specimen body and 

 head to middle orbit, measured from posterior extremity vent. In the type, 

 however, it is much shorter, extending from its basis only to the eighth costal 

 fold (from groin), but I am not sure that this is normal. 



Color leaden, in type paler below with numerous indistinct whitish blotches. 

 Eye lids yellowish margined. Sp. 46fe8 has the abdomen darker and 

 without spots. 

 No_ Locality. Donor. No. Sp. 



7145 Cleveland, Ohio. Prof. J. P. Kirtland. 1 



4(i8S Unknown. Prof. Agassiz. 1 



The narrower head and more elongate body will distinguish this species from 

 the A. jeffersonianum. It is readily distinguishalde among many indi- 

 viduals, nevertheless many of those of the var. 1 a t e ra 1 i s approach it in the 

 proportions of the parts of the head to each other. These points are the 

 closer approximation of the eyes and of tlie nostrils. The shorter body is, 

 however, always preserved. The size of the lateralis is considerably less. 

 Those of the typical var. of the same species are invariably stouter, not 

 only in body but head. 



Amblystoma mackodactylum Baird. 

 Journ. Ac. N. Sci. Phila. i. p. 292. 



This species is the slenderest of all our speces of Ambli/stoma, in this 

 respect as well as length of digits exceeding even the A. jeffersonianum. 



The specimen before me is too small to furnish any reliable indication as to 

 the character of the glands, and pores of the skin. These are probably 

 much as in A. jifftrsonianum. No pores are visible on the head arranged in 

 regular patterns. 



The head is rather large, depressed and elongated, with a moderate con- 

 striction at the neck. The eyes are prominent and distant less than two 

 lengths of the orbit. The outer and inner nostrils are each about one orbit 

 distant. The width of the head is about three-quarters the distance to gular 

 fold. 



The tongue is oval and longitudinal. The palatine teeth are in three or 

 four patches, the central largest, occasionally separated by an interval less 

 than half the diameter of the inner nostrils ; together they form a line,_ 

 slightly angular anteriorly, where they reach to about opposite the centre of 

 the inner nostrils ; laterally they pass a little the outer margin of the inner 

 nostrils. 



[ Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



The body is cylindrical-depressed, with twelve costal furrows. The tail is 

 broken ; but from what is left appears to be somewhat compressed, but much 

 rounded. 



Tlie color in alcohol appears to be brown with a well defined broad dorsal 

 stripe of grayish brown, which involving the whole upper surface of the head 

 and neck contracts on the nape, swelling again on the back, with an average 

 breadth'of the outer orbital space ; this stripe seems to extend to the end of 

 the tail. Ou each side of this dorsal stripe is a suffusion of dark 

 brown which gradually pales through the color of the sides into the belly ; 

 there are also a few spots of the same in the dorsal stripe. There are a few 

 grayish white dots scattered along the sides, and perhaps on the limbs. 



Two specimens (4054) from Puget Sound, agree in form with the preceding 

 specimen ; the two central patches of palatine teeth perhaps a little more 

 angularly arranged, Instead of the grayish dorsal stripe, however, tln^re is a 

 brownisli redone, and the sides are of a darker and more continuous brown. 

 No. 4711 has a similar character of palatines but a coloration more like the 

 type. The palatines in fact extends a liltle in front of the anterior bonier of 

 the inner nostrils. 



Proportional Dimensions o/"4042. 



Length of gape of mouth, to its width two thirds. 



Width, to distance from snout to gular fold about £. 



" " " groin 5 times. 



From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from snoiit to 



groin ^. 



Distance anteriorly between eyes, in length of orbit less than 2. 



" between external nostrils one orbit. 



" " internal " 



Free portion of longest finger contained in distance from olbow 



to tip about 2^. 



Free portion of longest toe contained in distance from kneee to 



tip 2h 



Distance between outstretched toes in length from snout to 



groin about equal. 



Number of costal furrows (including axillary and inguinal).... 12. 



Measurements. 



Length (measured along axis of body) from snout to gape "20 



'' " gular fold. -44 



" " " armpit -65 



•• " " groin 1-50 



" " " behind anus 1-82 



" " " end of tail broken 



Width of head -30 



" tongue '17 



Length of orbit •12 



Distance between eyes anteriorly -20 



" " outer nostrils '12 



" " inner nostrils -12 



" " armpit and groin -90 



Height of tail where highest. -18 



Free portion of longest finger -15 



From elbow to tip of longest finger -39 



Free portion of longest toe -20 



From knee to tip of longest toe -50 



Distance between outstretched toes 1'40 



Total length of a larger specimen 4 in. 4 1. 



1867.] 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



From whom received. 

 Acad. Nat. Science. 

 A. Campbell. 

 Dr. Suckley. 

 Dr. Cooper. 

 Dr. C. B. Kennerly. 

 5248 1 Walla Walla, Ft. Benton. Lt. Mullen. 



Amblystoma pakoticum Baird. 

 Spec. nor. 



This Salamander is of very peculiar character. It is one of the stout-bodied 

 species, in this respect about equal to A. punctatum, but with a broader 

 head. 



In the type specimen (4708) the skin is remarkably free from pits, pores 

 and milk glands. These are found on the parotid region, both above and be- 

 low the horizontal furrow from eye to side of neck, which is swollen in conse- 

 quence. There is also a small patch on top of head, bordering the orbit ; a 

 patch on the spaces between the intercostal furrows, on the upper part of the 

 riides, extending, though faintly, nearly to the belly. Along the ridge of the 

 tail, bordered below by an indented line, the glands are thickly crowded. A 

 few scattered glands are seen along the back. Elsewhere the skin is perfectly 

 smooth and glandless, with the muscle directly beneath it, although probably 

 when fresh the usual shallow pits of the group stud the skin thickly every- 

 where, as usual. These are distinctly visible in a second specimen, 4709. In 

 this, also, the glands are more numerous on the back, and extend farther 

 down the side of the tail. 



The head is broad and depressed ; considerably constricted at the neck. 

 The eyes are unusually large and prominent for the genus ; separated anteri- 

 orly by about twice the length of their orbits ; distant from the nostrils less 

 than this length. The outer and inner nostrils are respectively about equi- 

 distant by little more than one length of the orbit. 



The tongue is moderate, nearly orbicular, filling the rami only anteriorly, 

 and hardly more than half the width of the head. 



The teeth are in four patches, forming a transverse series, slightly angular 

 anteriorly, where they extend to about opposite the centres of the inner nos- 

 trils. The two central patches are rather the larger, with a slight interval. 

 They extend postero-laterally nearly to tiie inner margin of inner nostrils ; 

 these are separated from the outer patches by an interval nearly the width of 

 the inner nostrils. The lateral patches extend a short distance beyond the 

 outer margin of the inner nostrils. The sphenoidal portion of the roof of the 

 mouth is much restricted laterally and behind. 



The body is full, rounded and depressed ; there are eleven costal furrows, 

 including inguinal and axillary. 



The tail is compressed, but oval in cross section, with the lower edge rather 

 sharp towards the end ; the upper outline is much rounded. It is not high, 

 and not as long as the rest of head and body ; longer than from snout to groin. 

 In one specimen there is a distinct furrow along the under side. 



The limbs are large ; the digits lengthened, more depressed than in A. puno- 

 tatum, but linear, not triangular in shape. The lateral ones are more length- 

 ened than usual, and those of each limb are more nearly of a length. The free 

 portion of longest finger is more than one-third from tip to elbow ; that of 

 longest toe in the same proportion. 



The gape of the head is wide; the length more than half the wiilth. The 

 width of the head is contained four times in distanec from snout to groin. 



The color in one specimen is everywhere a dull reddish olive or brown, 

 paler beneath, and without the trace of any spots. No. 4707 is much darker 

 — nearly black. 



The Amblystoma trisruptum Cope, from Ocate Creek, is similar to the 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



present species in the intervals between the four palatine patches and the 

 glands on the parotid region. Tiie rest of the skin, however, as far as can be 

 ascertained, is glandular, as in A- punctatum, tif/rinum, etc. The digits, too, 

 are shorter, flatter, more irregular, the lateral and central more unequal ; the 

 eyes are much smaller and farther apart ; there are 12 costal furrows, not 11, 

 etc. 



Proportional Dimensions. 



Length of gape of mouth, to its width more than half. 



Width, to distance from snout to gular fold cont. 1^ 



groin 4i 



behind anus +5 



From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from snout 



to groin SJ 



behind anus -\-A. 



Distance anteriorly between eyes, in length of orbit 2 



from eyes to nostrils - little over 1. 



between external nostrils " 1. 



internal nostrils about 1. 



Width of tongue to width of head little over half. 



Free portion of longest finger contained in distance from 



elbow to tip 2| 



Distance between outstretched toes in length from snout to 



groin equal. 



Measurements. 



Length (measured along axis of body) from snout to gape 50 



gular fold 95 



armpit 1.50 



groin 3*10 



behind anus 3'80 



end of tail 7-20 



Width of head -75 



tongue "40 



Length of orbit "25 



Distance between eyes anteriorly "45 



outer nostrils '25 



inner nostrils '24 



Height of tail where highest "45 



Breadth " " -20 



Free portion of longest finger , '30 



From elbow to tip of longest finger "83 



Free portion of longest toe "BS 



From knee to tip of longest toe I'OC 



Distance between outstretched toes 3"05 



Cat. No. No. of Spec. Loealitv. From whom received. 



4708 1 9 Chiloweyuck, W. T. (1859) A. Campbell (type). 



4708 2 Near Simiahmoo. " 



6634 1 Coal mines of Vancouver Isl. Alden W. Hewson. 



7021 1 Pugel's Sound. Dr. Kennerly. 



Amblystoma ateerimum Cope. 

 Sp. nov. 



This is a stout species, having a form of head intermediate between that of 

 the A. tenebrosum and A. mavortium. The dentition is quite pecu- 

 liar, and with the ensemble of its characters, refers it to the immediate neigh- 

 borhood of tlie A. tenebrosum. 



Head a broad oval ; its greatest width a little over | the length from end 

 muzzle to gular fold, and 4'2 in same to groin. The pupil marks three-sev- 



1867.] 




202 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



enths the distance from canthus of mouth to external nostril. Fissure orbit 

 equal length from same to nostril, and enters 1-66 times width between the 

 latter ; it is contained 2-25 times in width between anterior canthi of eyes. 

 Canthus rostralis marked at orbit, terminating very obtusely at nostril; the 

 profile descends steeply from line of latter, not being" prolonged as in A. ten e- 

 b r o s u m Thus from the line connecting middle of inner" nares to lip is '75 

 external internarial distance, and -6 between anterior canthus of eyes ; in A. 

 tenebrosum, same equals internarial width, and -75 the distance between 

 eyes. The distances between inner and outer nares are the same ; the former 

 are round. The series of palatine teeth commence only opposite the middle of 

 the posterior margin of the internal nares, and describe a slight curve round 

 their inner margins to a point just in advance of their anterio'r, then turn ab- 

 ruptly inwards and slightly backwards, making a right angle with their pre- 

 vious course ; they converge but do not unite. 



Tongue large, as broad as long. Gular fold well marked ; parotid groove not 

 visible, perhaps accidentally, "'it is difficult, as in the A. tenebrosum, to 

 distinguish the costal folds ; there are not more than 12. 



The tail is short and stout ; its upper edge is much compressed, as is the 

 posterior half; its glandular structures are much less developed than in other 

 species of Amblystoma, the crypts of the crest being minute and globular. 

 Length of tail equal from its origin (posterior margin vent) to posterior outline 

 of sternum. 



The extremities are very stont, just meeting when laid along the side. The 

 palms and soles are very wide, and the toes short and flattened ; they stand, 

 as regards length, behind 3 — 4—2—5—1 ; before 3—2 -4—1. 

 The color is black above, lead- colored below. 



In. Lin. 



Length from snout to gape (flat proj.) 7-1 



gular fold 12'75 



axilla 19-1 



groin 39* 



end of vent 48' 



end tail 6 6. 



Width of head 9-75 



tongue 5*2 



between eyes anteriorly 5. 



nostrils 4. 



inner nostrils 3. 



from eye to nostril 2-25 



Circumfert'nee belly 236 



Greatest hei>;ht tail 5.4 



width " 4-5 



Free portion longest finger 2-5 



From elbow to tip of do 975 



Free part longest toe 3* 



Knee to tip of do 11- 



Extent of outstretched toes 3 3'1 



No. 5242. From North Rocky Mountains. Lieut. Mullen. 



Amblystoma tenebrosum Baird and Girard. 

 Pr. A. N. S. Phila. 1852, 174. U. S. Exp. Ex. Kept. p. 14, Tab. 



This species forms the type of a special section of the genus, difi'ering as it 

 does from all other Amblystomata of North America. It is especially character- 

 ized by its massive frame and huge size among true Salamanders, as well as 

 by other peculiarities hereafter to be mentioned. 



The corrugation of the skin prevents any critical examination of its charac- 

 ter iu respect to glands, pits, etc. It is certainly less glandular than in A. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



punct'itum or Itiridiim, although scattered glands may be detected closely and 

 evenly distributed on the whole back and sides and on the chin : the remain- 

 ing under parts and snout before the eyes are smooth. 



The head is very massively built ; large ; broadest behind the eyes and tri- 

 angular ; the sides being nearly straight to the narrow and rounded tip. The 

 eyes are very large and prominent, separated by less than two lengths of the 

 orbit, and distant less than one length from the outer nostrils, which are sepa- 

 rated by 1| orbits distance, and placed on the side below the distinct canthus 

 rostralis. The outer nostrils are much more distant than the inner, which are 

 very large, much excavated and have the external canal occupied by a soft 

 plaited membrane. 



The tongue is thick and Heshy, nearly oibicular ; but angular anteriorly. 

 It fills up the lower jaw pretty well, and is more than half the width of the 

 head. 



The palatine teeth are in two patches only ; each very slightly convex an- 

 teriorly, coming together at a slight angle with the apex bai-kvvard, but sepa- 

 rated along the median line. Laterally the patches of teeth form the poste- 

 rior mai-gin of the inner nares, and do not extend beyond their outer margin. 

 The entire series is thus posterior to the nostrils. In younger specimens the 

 series are more transverse, the inner extremities slightly incurved. 



The width of the head is contained 1^ times in distance to gular fold, and 4 

 times to groin. 



The body is rounded and depressed. There are 12 costal furrows. 



The tail in the two specimens before me is considerably less than half the 

 total length. It is much compressed from near the base, and the edges near 

 the end are quite sharp. It is far short of being as deep at the base as the 

 body. 



The limbs are stout ; the digits, the fingers especially, are short, consider- 

 ably depressed, but linear and blunt at the tip ; the under surfaces of these 

 are somewhat swollen into a kind of bulb, which in alcohol contracts into 

 something the appearance of a disk. The third finger is longest, but is very 

 little more than the 2d, and this than the 1st and 4th. The third finger is 

 contained nearly 4 times in the distance from elbow to tip. The 4th toe ia 

 longer than 3d in three specimens, in one the 3d exceeds the 4th a little, and 

 the same are nearly equal in case of the fingers. 



The color of this species in alcohol is a kind of dark reddish-brown, pale 

 beneath, mottled and marbled above and on the sides with darker brownish ; 

 most distinct on the head, especially on the snout, where the skin is perfectly 

 smooth. The head shows a tinge of greyish in the ground color. 



(For fresh color see the figure in Girard's Herpetology of the United States 

 Exploring Expedition.) 



There are two varieties of this species : 



a. Where the loreal region is flat and the muzzle narrower before the or- 

 bits, and the marblings confined to the head ; the body being of a nearly uni- 

 form brown ; represented by specimens 4710 and 4053. 



0. The loreal region swollen in front of orbits, and hence the muzzle broader ; 

 the ground color greyish, with coarse brown marbling, like large hollow spots, 

 distributed over the whole upper surfaces of the body and tail. Represented 

 by No. .')9S1, and a large specimen (length 8 in. 6 lin.) in Mus. Academy Nat. 

 Sciences, from Body Bay, lat. 38^ 18' N., on the coast of California, procured 

 by our esteemed correspondent, George Davidson. 



Proportional Dimensions. 



Length of gape of mouth, to its width § 



Width contained in distance from snout to gular fold 1| 



groin 4 



From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from snout 



to groin little over 3 times. 



1867 ] 




204 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Distance anteriorly between eyes, in length of orbit not quite twice. 



from eyes to nostrils four-fifths. 



between external nostrils Ig 



internal four-fifths. 



"Width of tongue, to width of head ^ 



Free portion of longest finger contained in distance from 



elbow to tip nearly 4 times. 



Free portion of longest toe contained in distance from knee 



to tip " 3^ " 



Distance between outstretched toes in length from snout 



to groin 1^ 



Length of tail from behind anus, to rest of animal contained 1^ " 



total length two-fifths. 



Measure?nents. 



Length (measured along axis of body) from snout to gape -80 



gular fold 1'50 



armpit 2-10 



groin 4'55 



behind anus 5'65 



end of tail 9-30 



Width of head 1-15 



tongue '60 



Length of orbit , -34 



Distance between eyes anteriorly -58 



outer nostrils "40 



inner nostrils -30 



from eye to " -26 



Circumference of belly 4-00 



Distance between armpit and groin 2-65 



Height of tail where highest -65 



Breadth do. '36 



Free portion of longest finger -28 



From elbow to tip of longest finger 1-05 



Free portion of longest toe '36 



From knee to tip of longest toe 1-35 



Distance between outstretched toes 3-60 



Cat. No. No. of Spec. Locality. From whom received. 



4710 1 Oregon. " Ex. ex. ftype). 



4053(34) 1 Mo. of Columbia. Lt. Trowbridge (spec. desc. above). 



5981 1 Chiloweyuck Lake. Dr. C. B. Kennerly. 



Amblystoma texanum Baird. 



U. S. Mex. Bound. Survey, ii. Reptiles 27 Tab., xxxv. 15. Salajiiandra texana 



Matthes, Allg. Deutsche Nat. Zeitung i. 266, 1855. 



The description of this species is taken from specimens which are not fully 

 grown ; the proportions are, however, much those of the A. microstomum at the 

 same age ; this with the large number of costal grooves renders it abnost 

 certain that the full grown individuals are much like those of the latter 

 species, and very probably of near the same size. 



Skin everywhere quite smooth, no trace of pores on the head or parotoid. 

 region in many specimens. Costal folds fourteen, distinct; head folds slightly 

 marked, the gular slight. A median dorsal groove. 



Head oval, rather flattened and broad, canthus rostralis somewhat marked. 

 Mouth large, canthus behind eye, anterior canthus of latter marking miildle 

 of margin. Nostril a little nearer eye fissure than length of latter, proba- 

 bly equal in older specimens. Width between anterior canthus of eye double 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 205 



length of fissure ; external separated by one length of same, which is less than 

 the distance between inner nares. 



Tongue small as in other young, but not fissured or grooved as in those of 

 the two following Amblystotnse. Palatine teeth forming an arched series 

 between nares extending to their anterior border, and not beyond their inner 

 border in the lateral direction. From their resemblance to those of A. micros- 

 tomum of the same age I suspect they are similar in old individuals. 



Body rather slender; width of head at jaws four times in total length to 

 groiu and "75 length to gular fold. Tail short, longer when older, equal from its 

 basis to axilla. Limbs moderately stout, digits elongate, third and fourth 

 toes nearly equal, then 5th, 2ud, 1st. Fingers 3, 2, 4, 1. 



Above light brown, with a series of light spots along upper part of sides ; 

 these are small and one between each pair costal fold. Sides and belly 

 yellow. 



In. Lin. 



Length end muzzle to canthus oris 2-t) 



to axilla <J'5 



to groin , 14. 



toendtail 2 3.75 



elbow to end finger 3-1 



knee to end toe 3'7 



Mus. No. No. Specimens. Locality. Collector. 



4044 11 San Antonio. Texas. J. D. Graham. 



The plane front and canthus rostralis of this species form a resemblance to 

 the J., tenebrosum, between whicli and A. microstoinum it is naturally placed. 



Amblystoma cingulatum Cope, sp. nov. 



This species approaches the A. microstomum in general, but may be readily 

 known by its more elongate ovoid head, with long muzzle, more slender form 

 of body and peculiar coloration. 



Mucous crypts and pores are not much developed in this animal, a few only of 

 the latter extend along the superciliary region. The costal folds are visible 

 across the abdomen. 



The head is elongate, convex both transversely and longitudinally ; the 

 upper face of the muzzle is narrowed, and projects beyond the mandible. 

 Tlie width at the jaws enters the length to the groin six and a half times, and 

 one and three-fourths to the edge of the gular fold. The external nares are 

 quite close together, nearer than the long diameter of the eye, and nearly 

 1-5 this diameter in advance of the eye. The anterior angles of the latter 

 are 2-33 diameters apart. The folds on the side of the head and neck are as 

 in other species. The distance between the inner nares is 1*66 times the dis- 

 tance between the external. 



The tongue is oval, quite elongate, but not filling the space between the 

 rami of the mandible ; its median groove strongly marked. The palatine 

 teeth are in a single row slightly convex forwards, entirely between the inner 

 nai-es, their posterior margins of the ends of the series and nares correspond- 

 ing. The gape of the mouth is short, but longer than in A. mirrostomnm ; 

 its external canthus falls anterior to the posterior canthus of the eye, while 

 the anterior canthus of the same measures the posterior third of the gape, 

 ■ commencing at the middle of the premaxillary region. 



Costal grooves fourteen ; a median dorsal groove strongly marked. An 

 unusually strong fold across between angles of manriible, which sends a 

 branch to the orbit ; gular fold continued on neck, sending a parotoid groove 

 forwards. Length to gular fold 3-75 in length to groin. 



Length of tail nearly equal from basis of same to the mental cross fold. It 

 is of rather uniform depth, much compressed, keeled above and for its distal 

 half below. General form of the body slender and compressed, elevated at 

 the scapular and pelvic regions. 



]8()7.] 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Limbs stout, the fingers slender but not very elongate. Appressed to the 

 sides they fail of meeting by the length of the sole and longest toe ; length 

 from tip to tip when outstretched '66 length to groin. Length of lower leg 

 and foot scarcely "8 from muzzle to gular fold. No visible plantar tubercles. 

 Fourtli toe distinctly longer than third, then 2, 4, 1. Fingers 3, 2, 4, 1. 



Color in alcohol black, the under surfaces thickly speckled with grey. A 

 vertical narrow grey line passes between every pair of costal folds and meets 

 its fellow on the dorsal line or bifurcates to meet a similar bifurcation in like 

 manner, embracing an area. These narrow annuli extned nearly as far for- 

 wards as the orbits and surround the tail to its extremity. Muzzle black. 



In. Lin. 



Total length 3 6. 



Length to canthus oris (straight) 2.25 



gular fold 6. 



groin .... 18.7 



Width of head 3.2 



above femora 2.25 



The shades of coloration in this creature are those of the A. opacum, but 

 are differently arranged. 



No. 3786 ; 1 spec. Grahamville, S. Ca. Bailey. 



Amblystoma microstomum, Cope. 



Proo. Ac. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1861, p. 123. ^' Salamandra porphyritica Green,^' 



Hallowell (not of Grden), hma Amblystoma porplujriiicum Hallowell. Proc. 



A. N. Sci. 1856, p. 8. 



This species is among the most slender of American Amblj/stomata, and has 

 other peculiarities by which it is readily recognizable. The skin is very 

 smooth and slippery, with the glands less evident in the skin than in A. opacum 

 jeff'ersonianum, etc. The skin is everywhere covered with small sliallow pits 

 only visible when the mucus is removed, which shows tlie tail to be some- 

 times conspiculously granulated, the granules probably corresponding to the 

 ends of the glands. There are no evident pores or pits of larger size tlian the 

 others on the heail and parotids as in some Amblystomata. 



The head is very small, narrower than the body, with little or no construc- 

 tion at the neck. It i< contained about six and a half to seven times in the 

 distance to the groin. The head is much arched in every direction ; the eyes 

 far forward and lateral. The lower jaw projects a little beyond the border of 

 the upper, concealing the latter when viewed from above. The eyes are dis- 

 tant, less than the length of the orbit from the nostrils ; their anterior ex- 

 tremities separated by one and a half times this unit. The nostrils are one 

 orbit length apart. The anterior edge of the orbit falls opposite the middle 

 of the gape, instead of in its posterior third, as in A. jifftrsoniannm. The gular 

 fold is distant from the snout one-fifth the distance to the groin. 



The body is slender for the genus. There are fourteen costal furrows, in- 

 cluding the inguinal and axillary. There is a slight indication of a dorsal 

 groove posteriorly. 



The tail is about two-thirds the head and body. It is nearly cylindrical at 

 base ; then becoming slightly compressed, more and more so to the tip, where 

 it is quite flat, but without crest, although the edges are sharp. Viewed 

 from the sides, there is a constriction at the base of the tail ; this is one- 

 fourth higher in the middle than at the base. 



The limbs are weak, the digits are, however, rather long, cylindrical depres- 

 sed, without membrane. The proportions of the digits as in A. punctatam. 

 The longest finger is not one-third the fore arm ; the longest toe is a little 

 more than one-third the leg from knee. The outstretched hind legs are about 

 two-thirds the head and body to groin. 



The tongue is thick, fleshy and attached, although slightly free at sides and 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 207 



tip. There is a longitudinal groove in the tongue, separating the two papil- 

 lose portions of au oval shape placed side by side. This has not been observed 

 in Jejfersoiiiannm. The pappillse form parallel series on each oval oblique to 

 the central groove with the edge of the tongue projecting beyond them. 



There are only two patches or lines of palatine teeth. These occupy the 

 middle of the palate, forming a /^, the angle anterior and reaching as far 

 forward as the anterior border of the inner nares ; the postero-external ends 

 do not pass tiie inner margin of these nares (,ia the soft palate, the propor- 

 tions being a little different in the skull.) 



Sometimes these two patches form nearly a straight line ; or at least the 

 central portion is straight, the lateral bending sliglitly backwards. 



The color in alcohol is a dark brownish black, a very little paler beneath, 

 and thickly and irregularly sprinkled on the sides with plumbeous spots 

 about the size of the eye of no detinite outline. These are less numerous 

 above and below. Sometimes nearly wanting — sometimes they are larger 

 than as described and look not unlike patches of a grayish lichen growing on 

 the sides. 

 4096 (1.) Length (along axis of body) from snout to angle of mouth.... '20 



gular fold -45 



groin 2'20 



behind anus 250 



tip of tail 4-00 



of tail 1-50 



Width of head -31 



Fore arm from elbow '40 



Leg from knee "46 



Expanse of hind legs 1*45 



The total length of largest specimen seen (3999 St. Louis) is six inches, of 

 which the tail forms 2-60. The smallest adult is two inches long. 



In the just perfected young is seen a series of larger illy-detiued light spots 

 than elst^where along each side of the back. The belly is quite light colored. 



This species bears a close resemblance to Plethodon glutinosus, for which the 

 generic peculiarities, the longer digi s, etc., readily distinguish it. The 

 bluish spots too are much less sharply defined and duller, less silvery, and do 

 not occur on the back, as in glutinosu^, to anything like the same extent. 

 From ^. ji-ff^rsonianuiii it will be known by the projecting lower jaw; much 

 smaller and more arched head, greater number of costal furrows, more 

 evident spots on the sides, etc., besides the important peculiarities of 

 tongue and teeth. 



This is one of the species whose metamorphosis is completed some time be- 

 fore it attains full size. A specimen in which minute stumps of the branchiae 

 remain measures 2 in. in length; another, without traces of them, 215 in. 

 The width of the head enters the length to the groin 4'2 times, and the tail 

 falls short of the axilla from its base. These measurements may be compared 

 with those of the adult, in illustration of the general principle that the relative 

 lengths of body and tail increase with increased size. 



From whom received. 

 R. Kennicott (spec, descr.) 



L. Lesquereaux. 



Dr. Engelman. 

 Dr. G. C. Shumard. 

 J. Fairie. 



St. Charles College. 

 R. Kennicott. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



In concluding the review of this genus I wish to criticise the following: re- 

 marks, published by F. P. Pascoe in Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 186(j, p. 223: 



" With many naturalists I believe the idea still remains that every genus 

 must have certain definite structural peculiarities, and they appear to expect 

 that broadly dividing lines shall run between them. Any confession that no 

 absolute or primary characters exist, or that they are only secondary, is taken 

 b}"^ them as a fatal proof of the weakness of the position. It is true that, ow- 

 ing to the more or less exceptional isolation of many genera, a very clear and 

 decisive desciiption may be given of them ; but then it can never be said liow 

 soon tlie discovery of another form or species may upset the characters we 

 have drawn from our limited number of examples, or whether the new genus 

 or species may not be other sex of some other species. Moreover there are 

 many natural assemblages of species, whether we choose to call them genera 

 or not, for which no technical characters can be found, their connection de- 

 pending partly on peculiarities which it is scarcely possible to convey an ade- 

 quate idea of in words, partly on such gradual modifications of characters that 

 no satisfactory line can be drawn between them, but which are, notwithstand- 

 ing, not less real or striking. Those who only select a few prominent forms 

 for description may demur to this ; but any one who has gone conscientiously 

 through a large collection will acknowledge how diflicult it is in many instances 

 to say if genera really exist, even as a collective term for any limitable num- 

 ber of species, and how unsatisfactory is any attempt to combine species into 

 genera, or individuals into species, or to distinguish hybrids from what we 

 conventionally call true species. It will therefore be readily understood that 

 many genera can only be vaguely defined, either from the absence of salient 

 characters, or from their gradual modifications ; and some of the most natural 

 groups among the Coleoptera might be cited as examples of these classes. To 

 argue that genera oiight to be ignored, when not striitly defined, would, in 

 entomology, be to make classification impossible ; to say that recognized gen- 

 era should be enlarged from time to time to admit aberrant forms would be 

 merely to create repertories of incongruous species." 



When we read " tliat genera can only be vaguely defined, from the absence 

 of salient characters or their gradual modification," it is evident that there is 

 a contradiction in terms, or that a new definition of a genus has been adopted. 

 Are scientific men prepared to accept the above definition of a genus ? We 

 suspect not, for with it the translation of the natural system becomes 

 merely empirii , and that exactitude which characterizes nature vanishes 

 fiom its written counterpart. A genus, in our estimation, is a series of spe- 

 cies distinguished from all oilier species by one or more structural charac- 

 teristics, which are not variable in the reproducing adults of that series, or 

 of any other series of species, not otiiericise distinguished. A genus so defined 

 constitutes one, or most frequently several series of species, bearing a suc- 

 cessional relation to each other, which may differ widely in general appear- 

 ance, coloration, etc., and which are frequently mistaken by zoologists for 

 genera. They are "the assemblages of species, which are not less real or 

 striking," to which our author alludes. I would correct the allusion by 

 calling them assemblages of species which are. less real, though not less 

 striking. 



An error of this kind, or else a want of exhaustive investigation of struc- 

 ture, most probably a combination of both, has no doubt led to the opinions 

 I have quoted above. A rigid classification of characters into essential and 

 non-essential, is what our science everywhere needs. But taking the opposite 

 course, written ziology becomes a panorama rather than an analysis. 

 Were the principles of classification employed by some authors to be ap- 

 plied to domesticated animals, its errors would be obvious to every one. 



The genus occupying the preceding pages is an illustration in point. 

 Had the author adopted the various supposed species and genera described 



[Dec- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



which it includes, he might have readily been brought to the necessity of 

 according with the views above quoted. But a correspondence with nature 

 has required the recognition of protean species, as in a higher grade of char- 

 acters we are compelled to recognize protean genera. These groups are, per- 

 haps, tliose in which, respectively, certain characters are, for the time 

 being, undergoing a transition, which transition may at some period 

 cease. 



The serial relation of species has been above alluded to. This is far less 

 obvious, however, than the serial relation of genera. This does not, how- 

 ever, interfere with the entire isolation of the latter from each other as re- 

 gards any single geologic period, considered by itself. The naming of groups 

 of species which do not present this isolation, though prevalent in some 

 branches of zoology, is, in our estimation, a violation of the meaning of the 

 name genus, and very disadvantageous to science. It is, of course, of no con- 

 sequence to science whether a genus contains one or a thousand species, and 

 for the student they can be as well classified and characterized in the latter 

 case as the former. In the multiplication of names a new burthen is im- 

 posed — but what shall we say when these co ue to apply to something 

 "vaguely defined, " or " for which no technical description ca be found " !* 



II. Species o/Amblystoma unhnown to the icriter. 

 Amhlystoma punclulatum Gray, Catal. Batrachia Gradientia, Brit. Museum, 



37, 1S50. 



Said to be from Monterey, California. The description is too brief to enable 

 us to recognize or place it. 



III. Descriptions of tioo new Pacific species of Plethodox Tsch. 

 Plethodon INTEKMEDI0S Baird. 



This new species, in general appearance, proportions of body, etc., is very 

 similar to P. erythronotus, although abundant differences are easily discovera- 

 ble. The bodv, as in erythronotus, is slender and depressed ; the tail, as far 

 as indicated by the portion still remaining, is slightly compressed. 



There are no apparent peculiarities about the head. The tongue is elon- 

 gated, elliptical, without posterior emargination. There ar 14 costal furrows, 

 or perhaps 15, if we include one above the axilla. The distance from snout 

 to axilla is contained rather less than three times in that to groin. 



The digits are well developed ; more as in P. glutinosus. Tliere is little if 

 any indication of web at their bases ; the three terminal phalanges of the 3d 

 and 4th toes being free. The 2d and 4th toes are about equal. The outer toe 

 is not more than half the 2d ; the 1st finger and toe are almost rudimentary. 

 The 3d finger is decidedly longer than the 2d. 



The dorsal surface of this species is traversed by a broad brownish-red 

 stripe, extending from the nape to the end of the tail, the sides regular and 

 nearly parallel, though more separated towards the middle of the back, where 

 it is as wide as the interorbital space. The stripe is sparsely dotted with 

 dusky throughout its extent. The sides are abruptly blackish-brown on each 



* Another example of this mode of procedure may be found in a classificatiou of the 

 Crocodilia, by Dr Gray, in the Trans. Zool. Society, London, 1867, which only need.s to be 

 read to explain the applicability of the above remarks. The absence of all contrast in 

 many of the generic tables? is because they do not exist as such in nature. 



It may be added in this connection that the writer omits dates of publication of the 

 names of the genus Osteoliemus Cope, the latter having over a year priority over Hulcmsia 

 Gray, the name adopted. He calls the species H. nigra from the Crocmlilux tiigfr of La- 

 treille, H. N. Rept, page 210i;not 510, as given by Gray), a species based on the MS. notes of 

 Adanson, with the onlv description that it is V)lack, and that its jaws are longer than those 

 of the Crocodilus of the Nile. Should .^uch a description be sufheient to establish a spe- 

 cies, which we greatly doubt, it is enough to indicate its inapplicaViility to this present one, 

 that the jaws of the Osteolcemus tetraspes are always much shorter than those of the 

 Crocodilus vulgaris, a fact readily determined by reference to Dr. Gray's es.say itself. 



1867,] 14 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



side the dorsal stripe, at first continuous, but becoming more and more inter- 

 rupted by mottling. The belly is light brownish-yellow, thickly mottled with 

 dark brown in about equal proportions ; tightest under the chin. There is a 

 dusky line from the eye to the point of the muzzle. 



The general proportions and structure of this species are more those of P. 

 f/lutinosus than of erijthronotus, although slenderer of body. In both there are 

 about 14 costal grooves. The outer digit in intermedins is nearly rudimentary 

 instead of prominent, as in the other species. 



A distinguishing feature, when compared with cinereus and erytlironotus, is 

 found in the 14 instead of 18 costal grooves, the fore and hind limbs being 

 thus less widely separated proportionally. The legs are slender and the digits 

 much less webbed (scarcely at all, in fact). The 3d and 4th toes, especially, 

 are much longer. 



Independent of the structural peculiarities I find nothing in the color to 

 distinguish this species from erythronotus. 



Measurements, 



Length (measured along axis of body) from snout to gape "14 



" " " gular fold *45 



" " " armpit '65 



" '« " groin 1'80 



" " " behind anus 2'15 



" " " end of tail 3-65 



tail 1-50 



Width of head "25 



tongue '15 



Length of tongue '24 



orbit 09 



Distance between eyes anteriorly '15 



Circumference of belly 80 



Distance between armpit and groin .*. 1-25 



Height of tail where highest *17 



Breadth do. '16 



Free portion of longest finger '('7 



From elbow to tip of longest finger '31 



Free portion of longest toe '1^1 



From knee to tip of longest toe "37 



Distance between outsti'etched toes I'lO 



Cat. No. No. of Spec. Localitv. From whom received. 



4732 1 Fort Tejon,"Cal. J. Xantus (type of descr.) 



(i(j35 1 Coal mines, Vancouver Isl. Alden W. Hewson. 



Plethodon croceater Cope. 



The largest species of the genus, and one of the most ornamented of the 

 American salamanders. 



In primary features this species is near the P. e n s a t u s {Heredia oregonensis 

 Girard.) having the attachment of the tongue along the median line, quite 

 narrow, and a very narrow free margin in front. The palatine teeth form two 

 long transverse separated arcs, which are directed more posteriorly at their 

 median than exterior extremity, the latter extending further outside the outer 

 margin of the inner nares than the transverse diameter of the same. The tail 

 is subcylindrical and slender, compressed and narrowed in section below. No 

 prominent glandular agglomerations or pores. Only three phalanges in the 

 fourth toe. 



Form of head peculiar ; it is very broad, with straight converging maxill- 

 ary outlines and truncate muzzle. Upper surface much narrowed on muzzle, 

 lo're.al regions plane, very oblique, canthus rostralis not marked. Maxillary 

 outline obliquely spread at and behinds orbits, where it is exceeded by the 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



projecting margin of the mandible. Anteriorly, with the end of the muzzle it 

 projects considerably beyond mandible. Muzzle truncate in profile, a slight 

 emargination at middle of premaxillary border, and a groove on each side of 

 it on inferior projecting tace of lip. Nares terminal some distance above the 

 angulation of the lip, continued below in a groove which bifurcates near lip 

 margin ; the posterior line extending a short distance, the anterior to the me- 

 dian emargination separating the anterior from the inferior plane of the muz- 

 zle. Eye large, not very prominent, its anterior canthuswell infrout of middle 

 of jaw, and separated one diameter from nostril, and 1-5 from the other eye. 



No fold across from angle to angle of mandible, but the gular, parotoid and 

 postorbital grooves well marked. Costal grooves indistinct, thirteen. Skin 

 everywhere very smooth. 



Tail longer than head and body by the length of the mouth. "Width at 

 curve of mandible 4-6 times in length to groin. Extremities slender and long ; 

 when pressed to the sides the fingers extend to the heel. Length of whole 

 fore limb 2-75 times in length to groin. Inner finger very small, half the length 

 of the fourth ; third longer than second. Sole narrow, longer than the longest 

 toes. Inner toe less than one half the fifth ; third a trifle longer than fourth ; 

 second much longer than fifth. Lower leg -75 thigh to groin. 



Patches of parasphenoidal teeth two, in contact anteriorly, well separated 

 from palatine. All the teeth minute, numerous, acute cylindro-conic. Tongue 

 with rather straight lateral and posterior outlines. 



Color throughout pitchy black, fading into bright red orange below ; limbs 

 orange, a blackish cross band below the knee. A large red orange spot on 

 each parotoid region, and four smaller irregular similar spots on the body to 

 base of tail, on each side of and near the vertebral line. A pair of orange spots 

 at base of tail, and a distant series on the upper face of the tail. 



Measurenienis. 



In. Lhi. 



Length (measured along axis of body) 5 -11 



" From sonut to gape, (on front) '5 



" " gular fold -8 



" " armpit 1 0-75 



" " groin 2 5. 



" " centre of anal slit 4.5 



Width of head 6-75 



tongue 3-75 



Length of orbit 2.2 



Distance between eyes anteriorh- 3-3 



outer nostrils 2-3 



inner nostrils 2. 



Heighth of tail where hiehest 3- 



Breadth " " '^' 25 



Free portion of longest finger 2.25 



I'^roni elbow to tip of longest finger 7-25 



Free portion of longest toe = . 2-75 



From knee to tip of longest toe 8-5 



Distance between outstretched toes 2 4-4 



One specimen. Fort Tejon, Cal. J. Xantus. 



The only genus omitted from my examination of the families of Uro- 

 dela* is Aneides Baird. An examination of the skeleton shows that genus 

 enters the Plethodontidic and is nearest Plethodon, but differs from it in having 

 the mandibular teeth confined to the distal half, and exceedingly long and 

 compressed, thus differing from all known Urodela. 



* Journ. A. N. S. 18UG. 



1867.] 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



FASTI OENITHOLOGI^. 

 BY JOHN CASSIN. 



Vain is it that your science sweeps the skies, 

 Each, after all, learns only what he can ! 



— Pausl. Brooks' translation. 



No. 3. 

 Encyclopedia Loxdinessis, or Universal Dictionary, &c., &c. 

 Compiled, digested and arranged by John Wilkes, of Midland House, in the 

 County of Liussez, Esquire ; assisted by eminent scholars of the English, Scotch 

 and Irish Universities. London, 1795 to 1829. 24 vols, quano, many plates 

 of Natural History. 



The Natural History contaiued in this Encvclopsedia is tlie basis of a work 

 published separately, and apparently nearly simultaneously, much enlarged 

 and popularized, and forming fourteen volumes octavo, with the foUowinc 

 title : 



"A genuine and universal System of Natural History, comprising the three 

 Kingdoms or Animals, Vegetables and Minerals, arranged under their respect- 

 ive Classes, Orders, Genera and Species, by the late Sir Charles Linnaeus, 

 Professor of Physic and Botany in the University of Upsal, and President of 

 the Royal Academy of Stockholm ; improved, corrected and enlarged by .7. 

 Frid. Gmelin, M. D., Professor of Natural History in the Royal Society of 

 Gottingen ; 



" Faithfully translated, and rendered more complete by the addition of 

 Vaillant's beautiful Birds of Africa ; the superb Fish of Mark Eleazer Bloch ; 

 the Amphibious Animals, Reptiles, Insects, &c., in the costly works of Al- 

 bertus Seba, Merian, Fabricius, Knorr, &c. ; the elegant improvements of the 

 Comte de Buffon, and the more modern discoveries of the British Navigators 

 in the South Pacific Ocean, New Holland. &:c., &c. 



" Methodically incorporated and arranged by the Editors of the Encyclo- 

 paedia Londinensis." London, 14 vols, octavo, dated only on the plates. In 

 these fourteen volumes there are 415 plates, colored, 162 of which represent 

 birds. The greater part are in octavo form, and evidently engraved expressly 

 for this work ; the remainder are from the Encyclopaedia, mainly (in birds) 

 representing Le Vaillant's species, and are quarto, folded. 



The Encyclopaedia Londinensis contains nearly or quite the whole of Gmel- 

 in's edition of the Systema Naturte, but perhaps rather more completely the 

 zoological portion thereof, and in some genera of birds rather strictly accord- 

 ing to the Version of Turton. There are additions by the editor or editors, 

 the most important of which, in ornitliology, are the species given in the vari- 

 ous works of Le Vaillant, a large number of which are named for the first 

 time by any English naturalist or writer, and in some instances having the 

 precedence over all others quite entirely. Daudin, Vieillot, Shaw and Latham 

 are the principal competitors, and successfully so, in the large majority of 

 species, but by very small figures ; and with Vieillot theie i.s a tie of date 

 occasionally, as, for example, in the genera Muscicapa and MotacUla,. The 

 dates of publication (in the Encyclopaedia) are easily determined, being en- 

 graved on every plate. 



The names and the descriptions of birds in this Encyclopaedia I have never 

 seen quoted nor otherwise alluded to, by any author ; an omission or over- 

 sight, as it seems to me, without sufiicient reason, granting the doubtful pre- 

 sumption (though odd accident in this wide-awake age) that any writing 

 naturalist or amateur ever saw them (except m^'self). There is no I'eason, I 

 think, why the Encyclopaedia Londinensis should not be regarded as quite 

 equal in authority to the Nouveau Dictionnaire or the Encyclopedie Metho- 

 dique, nor any possible impeachment of its respectability and grade of im- 

 portance as a scientific work. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 218 



Who the editors were, in charge of the department of Ornithology, is more 

 than I know ; but perhaps some of the more intelligent of the English orni- 

 thologists can fini out, if they think it worth while. An inquiry in " Notes 

 and Queries " would bring it. John Wilkes, of the County of Sussex, Esquire, 

 is printed on every title-paxe as the responsible editor throughout, and for the 

 present, as he was presumably an entirely respectable person, I take him at his 

 word, and hold him accordingly, — preferring, however, that it be distinctly un- 

 derstood and remembered that there was anotherof the same name (wlio did not 

 concern himself with Encyclopse li.ie, so far as I ever heard, but was in a much 

 less creditable business 1. In a preface to Vol. I of the octavo work it is stated 

 that "This comprehensive system of Natural History was begun by the late E. 

 Sibly, M. D., who made considerable progress in it before his decease;" but 

 it is not stated that he was at all engaged in the Encyclopaedia. Nor is the 

 exact amount of headway made by him discernible at present, I think, in 

 either book. 



In the octavo work, the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth volumes con- 

 tain the ornithology, in the first four of which all the birds of Glmeliu's edition 

 of the Syst. Nat. are given, with some additions from Pallas, Turton, Pennant 

 and others, with copious notes and translations well written and readable. 

 The last, that is the eighth volume, is exclusively devoted to Le Vaillant, and 

 c mtains a translation of nearly the whole of his Ois. d'Afrique and numer- 

 ous copies of his plates. The latter were given previously in the Encyclopae- 

 dia, but the text is much enlarged, and apparently nearly a literal translation, 

 while in the Encyclopsedia, where the species are named, usually only a short 

 abstract of Le Vaillant's text is given. There are not many better popular 

 Ornithologies, yet extant, than these same volumes of this " Genuine and 

 Universal System of Natural History," aud they deserve favorable mention, 

 at least, alongside of anything in that line in the English language yet pro- 

 duced. 



The following is a list of the species of birds named and described in the 

 Encyclopaedia Londinends, those names having priority and consequent claim, 

 valid in equity, being given in small capitals. The numbers of the species 

 are the same as given in numerical order in the Liunseau genera to which they 

 belong (in the Encyclopseiia) : 



List of Birds named and described as netv (but often erroneously) in the Encyclo- 

 piedia Lindinpnsis, with sijnoni/ms and references to plates, and straightened 

 out, in general, according to the ability of the present editor. 



Genus FALCO. 



2. Falco griflfardus, Wilkes, En-jc. Lond. vii. p. 173 (1805). 



Falco bellicosus, Daud., Traite d'Orn. ii. p. 38 (1800). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. pi. 1. Encyc. Lond. vii. pi. 2. 



3. Falco caflfre, Wilkes, Ency. Lond, vii. p. 173 (1805). 



Falco vulturinus, Dau i., Traite d'Orn. ii. p. 53(1800). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. (5. 



4. Falco remex, Wilkes, Ency. Lond vii. p. 174 (1805). 



Falco ecaudatus, Daud., Tr. ii. p. 54 (1800). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. 1. pi. 7, 8. Ency. Lond. vii. pi. 2. 



41. Falco stridens, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 178 (1805). 

 Falco vocifer, Daud., Tr ii. p. G5 (1800). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 4. Ency. Lond. vii. pL 4. 



50. Falco capillamentus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 179 (1805). 

 Falco occipitalis, Daud., Tr. ii. p. 40 (1800). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 2, 



1867.] 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



51, Falco longicaudus, Wilkes. Ency. Lond. vii. p. 180 (1805). 

 Falco albescens, Daud., 'I'r. ii. p. 45 (1800). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 3. Ency. Load. vii. pi. 4. 



56. Falco parasiticus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 181 (1805). 

 Falco pirasitas, Daud. Tr. ii. p. 150 (1800). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 22. Ency. Lond. vii. pi. 5. 



(53. Falco rutilo ni^er, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 183 (1805). 

 Falco jakal, Daud., Tr. ii. p. 161 (1800). 

 Le Vaill. Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 16. 



64. Falco rutilo-griseus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 183 (1805). 

 Falco desertorum, Daud.. Tr. ii. p. 162 (1800). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 17. 



65. Falco bacha, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 184 (1S05). 

 Falco bacha, Daud., Tr. p. 43 (1800). 



Le V^aill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 15. Eucy. Loud. vii. pi. 6. 



63. Falco manicatus, Wilkes, Eacv. Lonl. vii. p. 184 (1805). 

 Falco plumiprts, Daul., Tr. ii. p. 163 (1800). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 18. Ency. Lond. vii. pi. 6. 



67. Falco maculatus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 184 (1S05). 

 Falco tachardus, Daud., Tr. ii. p. 164 (1800). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 19. 



68. Falco buserai, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 185 (1805). 

 Falco busarellus, Daud., Tr. ii. p. 168 (1800). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 20. 



69. Falco buson, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 185 (IS 05). 

 Falco busou; Daud., Tr. ii'. p. 16S (1800). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. . Ency. Loni. vii. pi. 7. 



79. Falco ranavorans. Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 186 (1805). 

 Falco ranivorus, Daud., Tr. ii. p. 170 (1800). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pL 23. 



91. Falco tachiro, Wilkes, Eucy. Loud. vii. p. 187 (1805). 

 Falco tachiro, Daud., Tr. i. p. 90 (1800). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 24. 



120. Falco albicans, Wilkes, Ency. Load. vii. p. 190 (1805). 

 Falco lanarius, var. 2, Turton, Syst. Nat. i. p. 158. 



121. Falco acolius, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 180 (1805). 

 Falco acoli, Daud., Tr. ii. p. 176 (1800). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 31. 



125. Falco beugalensis, Wilkes, Eucy. Lond. vii. p. 190 (1805). 

 Falco melauoleuuus, Daud., Tr. ii. p. 85 (1800) ? 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 32. 



135. Falco piscator, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 192 (1805). 

 Falco frontalis, Daud., Tr. ii. p. 118 (ISOOj. 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 28. 



136. Falco cantor, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 192 (1805). 

 Falco musicus, Daud. Tr. ii. p. 116 (1800). 



Fako canorus, Thunberg, Dissert. Acad. iii. p. 265 (1801). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 27. 



137. Falco africanus, Wilk^is, Ency. Lond. vii. p. 193 (1805). 

 Falco tibialis, Daud., Tr. ii. p. 120 (1800). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 29. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



138. Falco cliicquera, Wilkes, Ency. Lond vii. p. 193 (1805). 

 Falco chicquera, Baud., Tr. ii." p. 121 (1800). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. i. pi 30. 



145. Falco caracara, Wilkes, Eacy. Lond. vii. p. 194 (1805). 

 Falco brasiliensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 262 ? 

 " Caracara " Marcgrave. 



Genus LANIDS. 



11. Lanius Indus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xii. p. 211 (1812). 

 Lanius pendens, Lath., Ind. Orn. Supp. p. 19 (1801). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. ii. pi. 66, fig. 1. 



14. Lanius major, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xii. p. 212 (1812). 

 Lanius icterus, Cuv., Reg. An. 1. p. 352 (1829). 

 Tamnophilus olivaceus, Vieill., Gal. des Ois. i. p. 225 (1825). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. vi. pi. 285. 



15. Lanius maximus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xii. p. 212 (1812). 

 Lanius dubius, Lath., Ind. Orn. Supp. p. 18 (1801). 



17. Lanius javanensis, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xii. p. 213 (1812). 

 Lanius superciliosus, Lath., Ind. Orn. Supp. p. 20 (1801). 



18. Lanius Brubru. Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xii. p. 213 (1812). 

 Lanius Brubru, Lath., Ind. Orn. Supp. p. 20 (1801). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. ii. pi. 71. 



19. Lanius cubla, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xii. p. 214 (1812). 

 Lanius cubla. Lath., Ind. Orn. Supp. p. 20 (1801). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. ii. pi. 72, fig. 1, 2. 



20. Lanius taciturnus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xii. p. 214 (1812). 

 Lanius silens, Shaw, Gen. Zool. vii. p. 330 (1809). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. ii. pi. 74. 



21. Lanius oliva, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xii. p. 214(1812). 

 Lanius olivaceus, Shaw, (ien. Zool. vii. p. 330 (1809). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. ii. pi. 75, 76. 



67. Lanius picus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xii. p. 217 (1813). 

 Lanius mystaceus. Lath., Ind. Orn. Supp. p. 19 (1801). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. ii. pi. 65. 



68. Lanius durus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xii. p. 218 (1813). 

 Sparacta cristata, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xxxi. p. 526 (1819). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. ii. pi. 79. 



69. Lanius Geoffroyi, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xii. p. 218 (1813). 

 Lanius plumatus, Shaw, Gen. Zool. vii. p. 292 (1809). 

 Prionops GeolFrovi, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. iii. p. 144 (1816). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. IL pi. 80, 81. 



Genus BUCEROS, 



10. BucERos semilunaris, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. iii. p. 479 (1808). 

 Baceros lunatus, Temm., PI. Col. liv. 92 (about 1830). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Am. et Ind. pi. 13. 



11. Buceros albicornis, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. iii. p. 479 (1808). 

 Buceros Pica, Scopoli, Flor. et Faun. Insub, p. 87 (1786) ? 

 Buceros malabaricus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 359 (1788). 

 Buceros albirostris, Shaw, Gen. Zool. viii. p. 13 (1811). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Am. et Ind. pi. 14. 



1867.] 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



12. BucEKos vioLACEus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. iii. p. 479 (1808). 

 Buceros violaceus, Shaw, Gen. Zool. viii. p. 19 (1811). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Am, et Ind. pi. 19. 



13. Buceros crispatus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. iii. p. 479 (1808). 

 Buceros plicatus. Lath., Ind. Orn. i. p. 146 (1790). 

 Buceros undulatus, Shaw, Gen. Zool. viii. p. 26 (1811). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Am. et Ind. pi. 20, 21. 



14. Buceros Corvus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. iii. p. 479 (1808). 

 Merops cornieulatus, Lath., Ind. Orn. i. p. 276 (1790), 

 Tropidorhyuchus cornieulatus (Latham), 



Le VaiU,, Ois. Am, et Ind, pi. 24. 



15. BucEKOS JAVANExsis, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. iiL p. 479 (1808). 

 Buceros javanicus, Shaw. Gen. Zool. viii, p. 28 (1811), 



Le Vaill., Ois. Am. et Ind. pi. 22, 



16. Bdceros gingala, Wilkes, Ency, Lond, iii, p, 480 (1808). 

 Buceros gingalensis, Shaw, Gen. Zool. viii. p. 37 (1811). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Am. et Ind. pi. 23. 



17. Buceros loxgibandus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. iii. p. 480 (1808). 

 Buceros fasciatus, Shaw, Gen. Zool. viii. p. 34 (1811). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. v. pi. 233. 



18. Boceros cokonatus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. iii. p. 480 (1808). 

 Buceros melanoleucus, Licht. 



Buceros corouatus, Shaw, Gen. Zool, viii, p. 35 (1811), 

 Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. v. pi. 234, 235, 



Genus CORVUS. 



2. Corvus capistrum, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. v. p. 237 (1802). 



Corvus albicollis, Lath., Ind. Orn. i. p. 151 (1790). 

 Corvus cafer, Licht. 

 Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. ii. pi. 50. 



3. Corvus magnds, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. v. p. 237 (1802), 



Corvus major, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. viii. p. 27 (1817). 

 Le Vaill., Ois, Afr. ii. pL 51. 



39, CoBvus SPLEXDIDDS, Wilkes, Ency, Lond. v. p. 241 (1802). 

 Corvus splendidus, Shaw, Gen, Zool, vii. p. 372 (1809), 

 Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. ii. pi. 85. 



41. Corvus afer, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. v. p. 241 (1802). 

 Corvus capensis, Licht. 

 Le Vaill., Ois. Afr, ii. pi. 52. 



44. Corvus indicus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. v. p. 242 (1802). 

 Corvus crinitus, Daud., Traite d'Orn. ii. p, 253 (1800), 

 Corvus sexsetaceus, Shaw, Gen. Zool. vii, p. 380 (1809.) 



Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. ii. pi. 82. 



45. Corvus Choucador, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. v. p. 243 (1802). 

 Sturnus ornatus, Daud., Traite d'Orn. ii, p. 309 (1800), 



Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. ii. pi. 86, 



43. Corvus cirrhatus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. v. p. 244 (1802). 

 Pica melanocephala, Wagler, Syst. Av. (18::7). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. ii. pi, 58, 



[Dee. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21' 



•57. Corvus piapiac, Wilkes Eocy. Lond. v. p. 245 (1802). 

 Corvus seuegalenses, Liim., Syst. Nat. i. p. 158 (17l)(>). 

 Le VailL, Ois. Afr. ii. pi. 54. 



58. Corvus ruber, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. v. p. 245 (1802). 

 Corvus rufigaster, Lath., lud. Orn. 1. p. 2(3 Supp. (1801). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. ii. pi. 55. 



59. Corvus Temia, Wilkes, Euey. Lond. v. p. 245 (1802), 

 Corvus varians, Lath., Ind. Orn. Supp. p. 26 (1801). 



60. Corvus rufus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. v. p. 245 (1802). 

 Lanius rufus, Scop., Flor. et Faun. Insub. 1. p. 86(1786). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. ii. pi. 59. 



61. Corvus Lanius, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. v. p. 245 (1S02). 

 Lanius picatus. Lath., Ind. Orn. Supp. p. 17 (1801). 



Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. ii. pi. 60. 



Genus ORIOLUS. 



23. Oriolds africaxus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvii. p. 740 (1820). 

 Oriolus monachus, Wagier, Syst. Av. (1827). 

 Oriolus Coulougnan, Temm.,"Pl. Col. liv. 54 (about 1826). 

 Oriolus larvatus, Licht., Verz. p. 20 (1823). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. vi. pi. 261, 262. 



Genus PICUS. 



49. Picus barbatus, Wilkes, Eucy. Lond. xx. p. 401 (1825). 

 Picus biarmicus, Cuv. 



Picus namaquus, Licht., Verz. p. 17 (1823). 

 Picus myctaceus, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xxvi. p. 73 (1818). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. vi. pL 251, 252. 



58. Picus erythrocephalus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xx. p. 402 (1825). 

 Picus fulviscapus, Licht., Verz. p. 11 (1823). 

 Picus fuscescens, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xxvi. p. 86 (1818). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. Afr. vi. pi. 253. 



Genus MEROPS. 



28. Merops moaachus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xv. p. 159 (1817). 

 From New Holland. I cannot determine this species. 



29. Merops malimbicus, Wilkes, Eacy. Lond. xv. p. 159 (1817). 



Merops bicolor, Daud., Ann. du Mus. ii. p. 440 (1803). 



Genus LARUS. 



1. Larus rissa, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xii. p. 250 (1813). 

 Larus rissa, Brunuich, Orn. Bor. p. 42 (1764) ? 



Genus ALAODA. 



2. Alauda rostro-crassa, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. i. p. 235 (1 



Alauda crassirostris, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. i. p. 373 (1816) 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 193. 



25. Alauda percutiens, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. i. p. 236 (1808) 

 iVlauda apiata, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. i. p. 342 (1816). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 194. 



1867.] 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



26. Alauda africana, Wilkes, Ency. Load, i. p. 236 (1808). 

 Alauda africana, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 798 (1788). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 192. 



37. Alauda dorso-rubra, Wilkes, Ency. Load. i. p. 236 (1808). 

 Alauda pyrrhonota, Yieill., Xouv. Diet. i. p. 361 (1816). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 197. 



38. Alauda pileo-rubea, Wilkes, Ency. Load. i. p. 236 (1808). 



Alrtuda rufipilea, Vieill.. Nouv. Diet. i. p. 345 (1816). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 198. 



Genus AMPELIS. 



I. Ampelis grandis, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. i. p. 483 (1796). 

 Coracias militaris. Lath., Ind. Orn. Supp. p. 27 (1801). 

 Querula rubra, Vieill. 

 Ha^matoderus grandis, fWilkes) ! ! ! 

 Le Vaill., Ois. Am. et Iad.~ pi. 25, 26. 



Genus MUSGICAPA. 



3. Muscicapa nubila, Wilkes, Ency. Load. xvi. p. 260 (1818). 

 Sylvia oebulosa, Vieill.. Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 204 (1817). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 149. 



4. Muscicapa loricaria, Wilkes, Eacy. Lend. xvi. p. 261 (1818). 

 Sylvia melanoleucus, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p 176 (1817). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 150. 



19. Muscicapa parus, Wilkes, Eacy.-Load. xvi. p. 262 (1818). 

 Muscicapa subflava, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 483 (1818). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pL 155. 



39. Muscicapa peaulata, Wilkes, Eacy. Lond. xvi. p. 265 (1818). 

 Muscicapa cyaaomelas, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 473 (1818). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 151. 



40. Muscicapa superciliata, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 265 (1818). 

 Muscicapa perspicillata, Vieill. 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 152. 



106. Muscicapa undulata, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 269 (1818). 

 Muscicapa ? Gray, Gen. i. p. 263. 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 156. 



Not 31. undulata, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 471 (1818). 



107. Muscicapa stellata, Wilkes, Eacy. Load. xvi. p. 270 (1818). 

 Muscicapa stellata, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 468 (1818). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 157. 



108. Muscicapa azurufa, Wilkes, Eacy. Load. xvi. p. 270 (1818). 

 Muscicapa aurea, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 463 (1818). 

 "Niltava azurea (Vieill)," Gray, Gea. i. p. 264. 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 158. ' 



109. Muscicapa albicapilla, Wilkes, Eacy. Load. xvi. p. 270 (1818). 

 "Platysteira monacha, Swains." 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 159. 



110. Muscicapa molenaria, Wilkes, Eacy. Lond. xvi. p. 270 (1818). 

 Muscicapa pistrinaria, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 474 (1818). 

 Muscicapa molitor, Licht. 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 160. 



[De 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



HI. Muscicapa pririt, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 271 (1818). 

 Muscicapa pririt, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 486 (1818). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 161. 



112. Muscicapa drongo, Wilkes, Eiicy. Load. xvi. p. 271 (1818). 

 Lanius forficatus, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 134 (1766). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 166. 



116. Muscicapa albiventris, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 272 (1818). 

 Dicrurus leucogaster, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. ix. p. 587 (1817). 

 Dicrurus albiventris, Steph., Gen. Zool. xiii. p. 140 (1825). 



Le VailL, Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 171. 



117. Muscicapa longicauda, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 272 (1818). 

 Dicrurus macrocercus, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. ix. p. 588 (1817). 

 Dicrurus indicus, Steph., Gen. Zool. xiii. p. 139 (1825). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 174. 



118. Muscicapa malabarica, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 272 (1818). 

 Lanius malabaricus, Scopoli. 



Dicrurus platurus, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. ix. p. 588 (1817). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 175. 



119. Muscicapa jerea, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 272 (1818). 

 Dicrurus seneus, Vieill, Nouv. Diet. is. p. 586 (1817). 

 Dicrurus jeratus, Steph., Gen. Zool. xiii. p. 138 (1825). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 176 



Genus MOTACILLA. 



2. Motacilla coryphajus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 77 (1817). 

 Sylvia eorypha;us, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 177 (1817). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 120. 



16. Motacilla citrina, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi p. 78 (1817). 

 Sylvia subflava, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 175 (1817). 

 L. Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 127. 



21. Motacilla melogaster, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xv. p. 79 (1817). 



Sylvia lunulata, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 210 (1817). 

 Sylvia gutturalis, Boie. 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 123. 



22. Motacilla ruficapa, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 80 (1817). 

 Sylvia fulvicapilla, Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 217 (1817). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 124. 



23. Motacilla viridis, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 80 (1817). 



Sylvia olivacea, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 205 (1817). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 125. 



24. Motacilla grisea, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 80 (1817). 

 Sylvia subcoerulea, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 188 (1817). 

 Parisoma rufiventer, Swains. 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 126. 



26. Motacilla ciliata, Wilkes, Eney. Lond. xvi. p. 80 (1817). 

 Sylvia diophrys, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 182 (1817). 

 Motacilla dioplirvs, Shaw, Nat. Misc. xxiii. pi. 973 (no date). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 128. 

 39. Motacilla aurata, Wilkes, Eney. Lond. xvi. p. 83 (1817). 

 Sylvia auraticoUis. Vieill., Nour. Diet. xi. p. 175 (1817). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 119. 



1867.] 




220 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



66. Motacilla arenaria, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 85 (1817). 

 Motacilla capensis, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 333 (lt66). 



Le Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 178. 



67. Motacilla variegata, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 86 (1817). 



Motacilla indica, Gm.. Syst. Nat. i. p. 962 (1788). 

 Motacilla variegata, Vieill. 

 Le Yaill., Ois d'Afr. iv. pi. 179. 



63. Motacilla .striata, Wilkes. Encv. Lond. xvi. p. 86 (1817). 

 ffinanthe ptymatura, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 436 (1818). 

 Le Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 188, fig. 2. 



69. Motacilla rubra, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 86 (1817). 



(Enanthe rufiventris, Yieill., Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 431 (1818). 

 Le Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 188, fig. 1. 



70. Motacilla cursor, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 86 (1817). 



CEnanthe cursorea, Yieill., Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 431 (1818). 

 Le Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 190. 



71. Motacilla familiaris, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 86 (1817). 



ffinanthe sperata, Vieill , Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 432 (1818). 

 Saxicola familiaris. Steph., Gen. Zool. xiii. p. 241 (1825). 

 Le Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 183. 



80. Motacilla formicivora, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 88 (1817). 



(Enanthe formicivora, Yieill., Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 421 (1818). 

 Saxicola formicivora, Steph., Gen. Zool. xiii. p. 242 (1825). 

 Le Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 186, 187. 



81. Motacilla Lmperatoe, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 88 (1817). 



ffinanthe nigra, Yieill., Nouv! Diet. xxi. p. 431 (1818). 

 Le Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 189. 



82. Motacilla Alauda, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 88 (1817). 

 Alauda nigra, Stephens, Gen. Zool. xiv. p. 25 (1826). 



L. Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 191, 



86. Motacilla tractrac, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 89 (1817). 



O^nanthe cinerea, Vieill, Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 437 (1818). 

 Le Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 184, fig. 1. 



87. Motacilla Montana, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 89 (1817). 

 CEnanthe monticola, Yieill., Nouv. Diet. xxi. p. 434 (1818). 

 Saxicola Montana, Steph., Gen. Zool. xiii. p. 242 (1825). 



Le Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 184, fig. 2. 



93. Motacilla pastor, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 90 (1817). 

 Saxicola rubicola, var. CafiFra, Licht. 

 Le Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 180. 



96. Motacilla turdus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 91 (1817). 

 Sylvia leucophrys, Yieill., Nouv. Diet, xi, p. 191 (1817). 

 Turdus pipiens, Steph., Gen. Zool. xiii. p. 202 (1826). 

 Le Yaill , Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 118. 



98. Motacilla acutipennis, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 91 (1817). 

 Sylvia oxyura, Yieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 161 (1817). 



Le Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 133. 



99. Motacilla Amboynensis, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 91 (1817). 



Sylvia rubescens, Yieill. 

 Le Yaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 136. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



146. Motacilla teheric, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 94 (1817). 



Motacilla madagascariensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 981 (but not p. 952). 

 Sylvia leucops, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 222 (1817). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iv. pi. 132. 



188. Motacilla garrula, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 97 (1817). 

 Sylvia babfficula, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 172 (1817). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 121, fig. 1. 



189. Motacilla Isabella, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 98 (1817). 

 Sylvia bajtieata, Vieill., Nouv. Diet xi. p. 195 (1817). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 121, fig. 2. 



190. Motacilla pavo, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 98 (1817). 

 Sylvia brachyptera, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 206 (1817). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 122. 



209. Motacilla fimbriata, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi p. 102 (1817). 

 Malurus palustris, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xx. p. 213 (1818)? 

 Malurus gularis, Steph., Gen. Zool xiii. p. 224 (1825). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 130, fig. 2. 



210. Motacilla pincpinc, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 102 (1817). 

 Sylvia textrix, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 208 (1817). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 131. 



211. Motacilla apus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 103 (1817). 

 Sylvia minuta, Shaw, Nat. Misc. xxiii. pi. 997 (no date). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 134. 



212. Motacilla curvata, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xvi. p. 103 (1817). 

 Motacilla rufescens, Vieill. 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 135. 



Genus PARUS. 



33. Parus niger, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xviii. p. 726 (1821). 



Parus niger, Vieill, Nouv. Diet. xx. p. 325 (1818). 

 Parus luctuosus, Licht. 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 137. 



34. Parus variegatus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xviii. p. 726 (1821). 

 Parus einerascens, Vieill., Nouv. Diet, xx p. 316 (1818). 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 138. 



35. Parus fuscus, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xviii. p. 726 (1821). 



Parus fuscus, Vieill, Nouv. Diet. xx. p 309 (1818). 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 139, fig. 1. 



36. Parus albigena, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xviii. p. 727 (1821). 



Parus cinereus, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xx. p. 316 (1818). 

 Parus atriceps, Horsf., Linn. Trans, xiii. p. 160. 

 Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 139, fig. 2. 



37. Parus dubius, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xviii. p. 727 (1821). 

 Sylvia atricapilla, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. 



Parus monachus. Gray, Gen. iii. p. 30, b. 

 Le Vaill , Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 140. 



38. Parus quadricolor, Wilkes, Ency. Lond. xviii. p. 727 (1821). 

 Motacilla zeylonica,Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 964 (1788). 

 vETithina quadricolor, Vieill. 



Le Vaill., Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 141. 



1867.] 




222 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



On the habits of a TIPULIDEOUS LARVA. 

 BY EDW. D. COPE. 



There has been known in Europe for many years a small white larva, which 

 is called the army worm, which gathers itself into large bodies forming streams 

 of several feet in length. Tliese bodies move forward at a slow rate, and ap- 

 pear to be a form of migration which the species adopts for some purpose un- 

 known. Their superficial resemblance to a sluggish serpent usually excites 

 repugnance in the minds of many observers. It has been found that these 

 larvae are those of different species of the flies of the genus Sciara, which 

 belongs to the Mycetophilidfe, which was formerly regarded as a group of the 

 great family Tipulidse, or the crane flies. 



Of this genus Osten Sacken* says : " All the larvae of the Mycetophilidse are 

 gregarious, and live among decaying vegetable matters. * * Sciara is 

 found among decaying leaves in vegetable mould, in cow-dung, under 

 the bark of dead trees, etc. * * They may be distinguished from the larva; 

 of Mycetophila by their greater delicacy, and by the structure of the trophi ; 

 most of them seem to have no bristles or spines on the locomotive processes 

 on the under side of the body, whereas the majority of the Mycetophila have 

 them. They are even more gregarious than the other larvse of this family, 

 and have the singular propensity of sticking together in dense patches, 

 in which situation they are frequently found, for instance, under the bark of 

 trees. It is probably to the same propensity that the phenomenon, known ia 

 Germany under the name of army worm (Heerwurm), is due. This is a pro- 

 cession of larvse, someti'i es from twelve to fourteen feet long, and two or 

 three inches broad, consisting of numberless specimens, sticking closely to- 

 gether, and forming a layer of about half an inch thickness. Such processions 

 have been often observed in woods in Germany, Sweden and Russia, bfit never 

 sufficiently investigated to explain their object. That the larvee do not mi- 

 grate in search of food, we can infer from the fact that they appear to be full- 

 grown when they form these processions." 



Prof. Berthold, of the University of Gottingen, gives a more detailed ac- 

 count of this larva,! as follows : 



" Mr. Berthold imparted, on the 17th of December, 1853, to the Royal So- 

 ciety of Sciences, a zoological examination of the Heerwurm (army worm), 

 which in certain rear.-; in the forests of Thuringia, Hanover, Sweden and Nor- 

 way moves like a snake several feet long, four to six inches broad, and 

 thumb thick, which consists of myriads of small dipterous larv;e, four to 

 live lines long. Eight years ago (Reports from the G. A. University and the 

 Royal Society of Sciences at Goettingen, 1845, No. 5), he stated that the 

 Tipula which was observed by the forest keeper, Mr. Raude, at tiiikenmoor, 

 was the Thomastrauer gnat (Sciara thomse), and was the means of solving a 

 problem, which has been for hundreds of years a returning stimuliTS of bigotry 

 and fear for the peasants, and for zoologists a point of earnest consideration. 

 But when he obtained last summer from the Eilenriede, near Hanover, more 

 new Heerwurm larvae, and Mr. L. Beclistein bred some flies out of the larvfe 

 of a Heerwurm, it gave him occasion to institute further examinations. 



'"The desire for association and migration cannot be compared with the 

 migrations of all other insects and animals ; for this is not done to procure 

 nourishment, because the maggots are in such great quantity above each 

 other, that but few would have a chance to reach the food. Also, the 

 maggots do not show the desire for travelling immediately after leaving the 

 egg, like many other insects, but the movement commences when the worm 



* Who has described the larvae, and given the bibliography of the European species, 

 Proo. Entom. Soc. Phila 1854 IK! — 170 I am indebted to this excellent entomologist for 

 the identification of larvse from Westtown, sent him, and for reference to the above essay. 



t rs'achrichten Univ. Gottingen, 18.5i, p. 1. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES Or PHILADELPHIA. 223 



is grown, and not less than three lines long. From this it would appear to 

 have some connection with the entrance into the pupa state. 



" Their metamorphosis is known ; it takes place in earth, in roots of plants, 

 under rotten logs, or in swamps. Such moist localities are selected by the 

 Heerwurm larvae after they have come to a certain age, and the time of pupa 

 change has arrived, which is known by the desire for association. 



"The mueus which keeps the maggots together is a product of the salivary 

 gland in Sciara i n g e n u a, and almost all other Dipleious larvee which have a 

 head, and which make a fine cocoon. The formation of f.upte of the Heerwurm 

 takes place surrounded by this mucous saliva. The Heerwurm can be re- 

 garded as a collection of larvae, for the purpose of mutual transformation ; 

 that is, it is accomplished through mutual protection at a period favorable to 

 development. This connection is given up before the formation of nymphs 

 really arrives, the individuals separating, from time to time, in search of 

 food. When now the larvse of large divisions of Diptera, as the Pupipares, 

 Notacantlies, etc., have the peculiarity of changing tlieir own skin into a 

 cover, which is the grave of the larva and the cradle for the pupa ; and the 

 larvffi of another division of the Diptera, as the Tanystomes and the Nemo- 

 ceres, before changing, strip off their cover, and are transformed free or in a 

 cocoon, so the Sciara t h o m ae presents a process intermediate between these, 

 as the construction of the cocoon is not performed within tlie skin of the larva 

 itself, but in a cavity which is made of the skins of numbers of other larvae." 



There appears, however, to have been no record of the observation of this 

 peculiar habit of larvse in North America, up to within a short lime. The genus 

 is known to exist here, and Osten Sacken (1. c.) describes a species whicli he 

 calls Sciara toxoneura. Hence the following account, which I liave re- 

 ceived from my friend William Kite, teacher at Westtown Scliool, in Chester 

 county, Pa., is of considerable interest. The statements are those of a careful 

 naturalist, well acquainted with the field and field study. Before quoting it, 

 it must be noted that another account of the same phenomenon was published 

 iu The Friend journal (Philada., 18G4), by Charles Potts, another teacher in 

 the same excellent institution. Some statements of this writer need correc- 

 tion, as farther observation convinced him: e. g., that they could climb. 



Tlie following are observations of Wm. Kite : — 



"On the morning of Ninth month 1 1th, 1^:66, a company of worms was ob- 

 served crossing the brick walk, or passage, east of Westtown School; the mass 

 presented much the appearance of a thin grey snake. This is the third year 

 that these worms have been seen about our grounds. 



"This company extended over a length of about twenty-two inches, with a 

 breadth of from three-quarters of an inch iu the tljickest part, to about one- 

 eighth of an inch at tUe head, and one-tenth at the tail; five or six worms 

 deep in thicker parts. The mode of progression of these singular creatures 

 was by the contraction of an annulus at a time. They liad distinct heads, and 

 the motion of each was like that observed in caterpillars rather than that seen 

 in earth-worms. The contraction commenced posteriorly, and was passed for- 

 ward to the head in the successive rings. 



" They advanced at the rate cf four inches in five minutes, the hinder ones 

 working their way over the top of the rest. Those who reached the ground 

 or bricks by thus traversing their comrades' backs seemed unable to proceed, 

 so that their progression naturally assumed the singular shape that drew our 

 attention to them. Occasionally a few would diverge from the mass, near the 

 front, forming another head, as it were; but they would soon return to the 

 general company by crawling back over each other." 



[This observation was also made on the procession which appeared in 1864 ; 

 /. e., that the hinder ones progressed over the bodies of those that preceded, 

 the whole mass thus taking up in the rear and laying down in front. This is 

 a much more rational explanation of their progress than has been ofl'ered ; we 



1867.] 




-24 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



having been left to suppose that the lower stratum of larvas carry the general 

 mass.— E. D. C] 



"To arrive at an idea of their numbers, about half an inch of them were 

 lifted out of their ranks on the point of a knife ; of theSR 95 adhered to it, 

 giving say 200 to the inch, or, by rough estimation, 2400 in th^ party. 



" They were about half an inch long, semi-transparent, with black heads ; 

 their alimentary canals were clearly distinguishable by the unaided eye ; the 

 color of their contents would lead to the supposition that their food resembled 

 that of tlie earth-worm. They crossed the brick path, conforming to one 

 general direction, but varying to suit the inequalities of the walk. On reach- 

 ing the grass they immediately buried themselves in the ground. This was 

 observed to happen with a compauy which was seen here a year or two ago." 



"Seventh mo. 1. 1867. 



" A large company of the ' snake worms ' attempted to cross a gravel walk 

 in the yard this morning, but became entangled in the sand, which adhered to 

 their bodies and seemed to bewilder them. School duties interfered with 

 watching them, but I anticipated their perishing in the sand. They liad 

 managed to keep together when I saw them, after having crawled through 

 three or four feet of sandy gravel, and may have eventually escaped. 



'' Tlie most noticable fact in regard to them was the presence among them, 

 travelling with and over them, of a fall-grown maggot of a fly ! It was very 

 lively, diving into the mass and emerging again, as though quite at home. 

 How did it get there ? and why did it associate with them ? Was it hatched 

 among them ? 



'•Their course was about N. W." 



" Seventh mo. 5, 1867. 



"A small company oi tlio^e worms agaiu on the gravel walk, within a few 

 feet of the same place as on the 1st inst. As they were going in an oppoisite 

 direction from those on the 1st, they may be the same company. There were 

 several many-footed worms, about an inch long, accompanying them ; tViese 

 were engaged in pulling worms out of the procession and devouring them. 

 On both occasions the companies were noticed early in the morning, as though 

 they commenced moving in the night. 



" Their course was about S." 



" Seventh ?«o. 8, 1867. 



" A much larger company of these worms were on the brick walk. They 

 had nearly crossed the walk before 7 A. M., showing they commenced moving 

 early in the mornin;£. They appeared unusually lively. Upon careful ex- 

 amination, we found the train extending back into the grass eighteen inches 

 to a cluster of them which appeared to be issuing out of the ground. They 

 moved on the surface of the ground, winding among the grass to avoid the 

 stems. This disproves our former supposition that they emerged to avoid 

 some obstruction. We were necessarily called off, and on our return the 

 traces of them were lost. Some ants and one small worm seemed engaged in 

 eating them ; the worms apparently appreciated their danger, shrinking from 

 the touch of these animals. This procession measured six feet six inches. 

 Occasionally one would be left on the ground after the train had passed, but 

 most of them kept with the general mass. 



" Their course was about ]N'. W.'' 



"Seventh vw. 9, 1867. 



"Two more small companies of these worms appeared, apparently the re- 

 mains of the large party of yesterday. Each company was short of a foot in 

 length, and were accompanied by quite a number of the worms noticed be- 

 fore with them. I caught and preserved a number of these ; they resemble 

 the worms found in cured meat, or similar ones found in many garden yegeta- 

 l)les. Their connection with the emigrant parties seems to be that of enemies, 

 proving on them. 



''' Course N. W," 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



"Seventh mo. 15, 1867. 



" 7 0^ clock. — A cool morning. Found a small company of these worms on 

 the brick walk near the office. Some passer had trod on them, and they 

 were thrown into confusion ; added to this, a colony of ants had intercepted 

 their course, and carried them off in numbers. They were massed in a crowd, 

 and their efforts to move on were defeated by the ants seizing their leaders at 

 each attempt to move. 



" 8.30. — The perseverance of the ants in carrying away the worms seems to 

 demoralize them entirely, and finally two bricks being placed to protect them 

 from passers' feet, the greater portion of them crept under one of them and 

 huddled together in a confused mass, where they became an easy prey to 

 their indefatigable little enemies, who were to be seen through the morning 

 marching olf with their captives, though much larger than themselves. 



" 10 o'clock. — All gone. 



" Course, so far as they were permitted to go, N. W. " 



The "many- footed worms" which devoured the Sciara larvae were larvae 

 of some species of the Coleopterous family Staphylinidae. Several specimens 

 were sent with the Sciarae. 



I am also informed that a procession of this species has been seen on Quaker 

 Hill, in the borough of West Chester. Dr. Benj. H. Coates informs me that 

 he has seen their trains in Hunterdon county, N. J., and T. A. Conrad saw 

 them some years ago in his garden in Burlington, in the same State. 



On inquiry of my friend Jacob Stautfer, of Lancaster, whose MS. notes on 

 the species of insects of his region, and their habits, are numerous, I received 

 the following additions to our stock of knowledge of the habits of the larva of 

 the Sciara : 



"On the 10th of August, 1865, Mr. Rathvon and myself were informed by 

 Dr. Geo. McCalla that we would be interested by examining an army of 

 small shining worms on the march in the yard of Col. D. Patterson, in W. 

 King street, Lancaster. 



"On our arrival we found the order of march thrown into great confusion 

 by boiling water, which the women had poured along the line. I collected 

 quite a number of stragglers from the main army thus routed, as did also 

 friend Rathvon. These I subjected to a close examination under a strong 

 magnifying power. My notes read thus : ' A portion, about two feet in length, 

 looked like a shining cord, not uniform in outline, yet compact. Tliese larvje 

 were about half an inch long mostly, perhaps three-eighths of an inch, and 

 Seven-sixteenths and oue-thirty-second parts of an inch in diameter. Their 

 heads of a glossy jet-black color, as also the anterior edge of the first joint of 

 segment ; rest of the first, and the second and third joints of a translucent 

 milky-white, dorsally watery, with au interior wavy, brownish, intestinal 

 canal, visible through the transparent skin ; there is also a lateral tinge or 

 brouze-yellow ; otherwise of a shining, water-and-milk-like color. I could 

 observe no pectoral or anal legs ; they moved by contracting and extending 

 the segments of their body (twelve in number) alternately, like that of a dip- 

 terous larva of Tipulidae. In motion the convolutions of the intestinal canal 

 were very apparent. They seemed to interlace with each other, but, having 

 been disturbed, I cannot venture to say whether after any precise order, or 

 by simple conglomeration as chance may demand. When first seen they 

 were moving in a broad columnar mass, rope-like, seeming like a shining 

 guard chain cord, of considerable thickness and quite ornamental. Hive jet 

 beads mixed in with pearly- white beads in motion.' 



"The following is a copy from a letter by Prof. W. S. Roedel, Wytheville, 

 Virginia, Aug. 4. Ib65, in his own words : 



" ' On Saturday, July 15, 1S65, at North Lebanon, Pa., I observed in a path 

 at the foot of a hill, what I at first glance supposed to be the cast-ofl' skin of a 

 serpent, which the object resembled in color and general appearance, but what, 



1867.] 15 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



upon close inspection, I found to be a multitude of caterpillars, a half-inch in 

 length and one-thirty-second part of an inch in diameter ; head of a dull red 

 or brownish color, bodies smooth and somewhat glistening. 



"These worms moved upon one another, piled upon and irregularly inter- 

 woven among each other like a flattened rope. The head of the column was 

 much broader than the rest, being two inches wide, from which dimension the 

 column gradually tapered (to a point, I suppose, for I did not see the end of 

 it). The length of the column was four feet to a fence, beyond which I did 

 not examine it. 



" ' A portion of the column lay in the grass, through which it moved with- 

 out interruption, as if it had been a solid mass. The rate of motion was ex- 

 tremely slow, not exceeding one-eighth of an inch in a minute. The color of 

 the mass was as much like a rope of tow which has been exposed to the 

 weather as anything I can think of; it might be called a rusty gray. The 

 column was not cylindrical, — that is, a cross section would be elliptical.' 



"The Springfield (Mass.) Republican of August, 1865, gives an account of 

 a ' reptile ' found at Lee. It was nearly four feet in length, about the size of 

 a man's finger, and shaped like a whip-lash ; and on close examination the 

 whole body was found to be composed of small worms about half an inch in 

 length, with large black heads, and semi-transparent body. On separating 

 them into fragments, they would immediately re-form into a snake shape, and 

 crawl slowly off. One or two similar snakes have recently been seen in that 

 vicinity.' This was copied into the Lancaster Evening Express of Saturday, 

 Aug. 12, 1865." 



The Mechanical Theory of SOLAB HEAT. 

 BY JACOB ENNIS. 



During the last quarter of a century scientific men have endeavored by new 

 methods to account for the heat of the sun, and they now generally believe, 

 or incline to believe, in its mechanical origin. Some adopt the meteoric the- 

 ory. They suppose that meteorites are falling with great velocity in the sun, 

 and that these stones strike the enormous solar fire by their fall. Others 

 adopt the nebular theory. They suppose that the sun and all his attending 

 planets and satellites have condensed from a very rare nebulous condition, 

 and that the mere condensation, or falling together of their materials by the 

 force of gravity, has produced all the solar heat. Others again combine both 

 these theories. They believe that originally the sun and the earth were 

 heated to a fused condition by mere condensation, and that since then the 

 meteorites have continued the heat of the sun. The only source of heat by 

 all these theories is gravity, because gravity causes the fall of matter, whether 

 in a nebulous or a meteoric condition, and this falling, this mechanical force, 

 is converted into heat. My object in this paper is to show that none of these 

 views can stand the test of numbers and of well established facts. The high 

 place which the mechanical theory of solar heat now holds in the scientific 

 world, is my apology for this appearance. 



Some of the important statements of the highly distinguished gentlemen 

 who have formed the mechanical theory are these : 



I. Dr. Julius Robert Mayer, of Heilbronn, says that a mass of burning coal 

 equal to that of the sun would supply his present emission of heat only 4600 

 years; and that a meteorite falling into the sun would supply at least 4600 

 times more heat than the same weight of burning coal. Hence a mass of 

 meteorites equal to the sun would supply his heat 4600 X 4600 = 21,160,000 

 years. This would be the least amount of heat when, as is most natural, that 

 mass of meteorites should approach the sun spirally. If they should fall in 

 a direct line, as would be most unlikely, the heat would be double this 

 amount. This greatest possible amount of heat, being out of probability, is 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



not taken into the account. Let it be clearly understood that the above 21,- 

 160,000 years of heat are to be derived not from the materials of the sun fall- 

 ing together, but from a mass of meteorites equal to the sun fallinor into the 

 sun ; the gravity of the sun not being thereby increased. The substance of 

 the meteorites are supposed, by Mayer's theory, to be radiated away into space 

 just as fast as they fall. The two ideas are vastly diiferent. But how long 

 would be the duration of solar heat by the mere falling together of the solar 

 mass from infinite space ? We may compute an answer from other statements 

 of these gentlemen, as follows : 



II. Speaking of the enlargement of the sun by the continued fall of meteor- 

 ites, Dr. Mayer says: "the increase of volume could scarcely be appreciated 

 by man ; for if the specific gravity of these cosmical masses be assumed to be 

 the same as that of the sun, the enlargement of his apparent diameter to the 

 extent of one second, the smallest appreciable magnitude, would require from 

 33,000 to 66,000 years." These two periods are derived, the one from the 

 spiral and the other from the direct fall. We will take the most pobable 

 medium, — say 41,360 years. A second of measure at the distance of ttje sun 

 is about 470 miles. These turned into feet would be 470 x 5280 =: 2,481,600 

 feet. An increase in the sun's diameter this number of feet in 41,360 years 

 would be 60 feet in one year. Prof. Wm. Thomson, of Edinburgh, says that 

 the fall of meteorites necessary to keep alive the present supply of solar heat 

 would amount to an increase in the sun's diameter of one mile in 88 years.. 

 This again would be 60 feet in one year. At this rate of increase we may 

 learn in how long a time the sun would grow from a mere point to his present 

 size ; or, in other words, how long would be the duration of solar heat from; 

 the falling together of the present mass of the sun. Thus, when the suu had 

 only one-half its present diameter, it had only one-eighth of its present volume 

 and mass, and its force of gravity whs only one-eighth of what it now is. 

 Therefore eight times its present fall of materials would be necessary. Its 

 surface was only one-fourth as large, and hence, on this latter account alone, 

 the stratum of meteorites would be thickened four-fold. Hence, when the sun 

 had one-half of his present diameter, the annual thickness of the stratum of 

 meteorites would be 30x8X4=960 feet. Here we have an arithmetical pro- 

 gression. For the first year or term the number is 30; for the last year or 

 term the number is 960. The sum of all the terms is 220,500 miles X 5280 

 feet per mile ^1,164,240,000 feet. Now what is the number of terms or years 

 necessary for this number of feet, the sum of all the terms? Let ?/ be the 

 number of terms. Then 



304-960 



Xy=l, 164,240,000 



2 y=2,352,000 years. 



Hence, from this mode of calculating, the sun, from one-eighth of his present 

 size, would grow to be what it now is in 2,352,000 years. This, however, is 

 hut an approximation. We have taken the force of gravity to be no stronger 

 in proportion to its mass than on the present surface ; whereas nearer its 

 centre it would be stronger; and there would be 220,500 more miles to fall. 

 But our approximation is near enough for our present purpose, and we come 

 to the conclusion that the entire falling force of all the materials of the sun, 

 when gravitating together, would supply the present rate of heat not more 

 than 3,000,000 years. 



III. In remarkable contrast to the last statement, we have the following 

 from Prof. Herman L. F. Ilelmholtz, of Heidelberg: "Let us make this addi- 

 tion to our assumption : that, at the commencement, the density of the nebu- 

 lous matter was a vanishing quantity, as compared with the present density 

 of the sun and planets; we can then calculate how much work has been per- 

 formed by the condensation ; we can further calculate how much of tl.is work 

 still exists in the form of mechanical force, as attraction of the planets to- 

 wards the sun, and as vis viva of their motion, and find by this how much of 



1867.] 




228 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



the force has been converted into heat. The result of this calculation is that 

 only about the 454th part of the original mechanical force remains as such, and 

 that the remainder, converted into heat, would be suSicient to raise a mass of 

 water equal to the sun and planets taken together, not less than 28,000,000 

 degrees of the centigrade scale. If the mass of our entire system were pure 

 coal, by the combustion of the whole of it only the 3500th part of the above 

 quantity would be generated." There is much ambiguity here in the words 

 "remains" and "remainder." Prof. John Tyndall, of the Royal Institution, 

 London, in his excellent work on "Heat as a Mode of Motion," takes both 

 words to refer to the same thing. But really " remains " refers to the force 

 still in store, as the attraciion of the planets to the sun, and the vis viva of 

 their motion. The "remainder" refers to the force of gravity already con- 

 verted into heat during all past time. This past time has been so long that 

 the burning of the solar system as pure coal would have furnished the heat 

 for only the 3500th part of the time. But Mayer says that the burning of so 

 much coal would last only 4600 years. Therefore 3500 X 4600 = 16,100,000 

 years for all past time, since the sun has been giving light and heat as he now 

 does. Thomson says that a mass of carbon entering the sun, and burning 

 with oxygen, would give out heat only equal to the 3000th part of its heat 

 produced by the fall. Mayer says a meteorite, by its fall into the sun, devel- 

 opes from 4600 to 9200 times as much heat as would be generated by the 

 burning of an equal mRss of coal. If we take Mayer's lowest number, the 

 most probable, the period would be 4600X4600=21,160,000 years. Thomson 

 has given tables to show that the store of heat in the solar system, as the 

 attraction of the bodies and as the vis viva of their motions, would last 45,723 

 years. Helmholtz says this is only the 454th part of the original store. Hence 

 45,723X454=20,758,242 years ; aresult remarkably near the above 21,160,000, 

 and very far from the 3,000.000 years which I have attained from the data of 

 Mayer and Thomson. T?he question now occurs, by what process of calcula- 

 tion has Helmholtz made the original falling force 454 times greater than 

 what still remains, and that it would supply our heat for 21,160,000 years, 

 instead of the approximation of 3,000,000 by my process above? I sup- 

 pese he has done so by calculating the heat derived from the falling of a mass 

 equal to the sun into another mass of the same amount; the gravity of 

 the sun being not thereby increased, according to Mayer's theory ! Mathe- 

 matics have never been my leading study, and I have not the time for calcu- 

 lating the amount of heat to be developed in years by the falling of the mate- 

 rials of the sun from infinite space down to as near the centre of gravity as 

 we now behold them. It would be an addition to science were some professed 

 mathematician to publish this result by a method different from the one above 

 by which I obtained the 3,000,000 years. 



IV. The following statement of Helmholtz has been often quoted, and is 

 still going around : "With regard to the store of chemical force in the sun, 

 we can form no conjecture, and the store of heat existing therein can only be 

 determined by very uncertain estimations. If, however, we adopt the very 

 probable view that the remarkably small density of so large a body is caused 

 by its high temperature, and that its density may become greater in time, it 

 may be calculated that, if the diameter of the sun were diminished only the 

 ten-thousandth part of its present length, by this act a sufficient quantity of 

 heat would be generated to cover the total emission of 2100 years." Another 

 form of the same statement has since been made, as follows : " If the sun be still 

 contracting, the falling force thus brought into action would be sufficient to 

 supply all ihe energy expended by the sun's radiations, if the contraction of 

 the sun's diameter should only amount to one part in twenty millions in a 

 year." This latter statement is derived from Helmholtz in this way : Accord- 

 ing to him, the surface of the sun must fall in all around towards the centre 

 110 fe^t every year to produce our present annual supply of heat. But 110 

 feet is the 21,000,00i.'th part of the sun's radius. The entire statement seems 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



to me in very strange contrast with all the others we have just reviewed. It 

 amounts to nearly this : If the sun should contract in volume from what it 

 now is to half its present diameter, this falling of its surface less than a 

 quarter of a million of miles would afford solar heat for ten millions of years. 

 Whereas the falling of its surface, by contraction, through many thousand 

 millions of miles, has produced heat enough for only double that period, ac- 

 cording to Helmholtz, and for only 3,000,000 years, according to my calcula- 

 tion already made in this paper. To me this statement about a supply of heat 

 for 10,000,000 years to come seems more erroneous by far than the one about 

 heat for 20,000,000 years of the past by mere falling force. His processes for 

 arriving at these conclusions are not given ; until they are given, the mere 

 assertions seem plainly contradicted by reliable data already reviewed. 



After these statements of the mechanical theory of solar heat, we will now 

 examine the objections to its various phases. 



V. That phase of the mechanical theory which assumes that the beat of the 

 sun proceeds from his own condensation by the force of gravity, is objection- 

 able on account of the short supply of heat. It would be only twenty millions 

 of years, according to the longest statement, which I think 1 have shown to 

 be erroneous. That twent}- millions of years are plainly due to the falling 

 together of two masses, both equal to our sun Three millions are nearer the 

 truth, which is obtained by the rate of growth in the sun, according to the 

 meteoric- theory. But even twenty millions of years are nothing when com- 

 pared with the vast lapse of time, or rather of eternity, that is past. The ex- 

 periment* of Bischof on basalt show that for our globe to cool down from 

 2000 degrees to 200 degrees centigrade, would require 350,000,0(10 years This 

 result has been quoted and approved extensively by the highest authorities, 

 among others by Helmholtz, and by Tyndall in his work on heat. Undoubt- 

 edly our globe was heated to a point as high as 2000° C. In ''The Origin of 

 the Stars " I have shown that the simple chemical elements composing our 

 globe were created separately and uucombined, that they could not have com- 

 bined slowly, but that they must have combined freely and rapidly, and in so 

 doing our globe must have been all aflame, like the sun. Then for our earth 

 to cool from 300° C. down so far as to be habitable for plants and animals 

 would require one hundred or two hundred millions of years more. Then 

 come the long periods for the deposition of the fossiliferous strata ; and these, 

 the longer they are studied, seem to require longer and longer periods of 

 time. This is my experience, after studying them fortj^ years. Darwin com- 

 putes, from data which seem sound, that 300,000,000 years have elapsed since 

 the period of the weald, the latter part of the secondary. This latter part of 

 the secondary, along with the tertiarj', forms but a very small part of the 

 stratified rocks. But we have been speaking only of the solid and the fused 

 conditions of our planet. My many years of study on the nebulous condition 

 of the great globes of space, impress me with nebulous ])eriods equally as loii"- 

 and as incomprehensible as the fused and the solidified periods. In this way, 

 while studying the monuments of the past set up by the Creator of the Uni- 

 verse for our guidance, our reason carries us back not only hundreds of 

 millions, but thousands of millions of years, and, in endeavoring to conceive 

 of these long i)eriods, the mind is just as completely overburdened and be- 

 wildered as when we try to conceive of the immensity of space revealed by 

 astronomy. By the side of all this how insignificant appears the three mil- 

 lions of years taken by the sun to give out his light by the mere falling force 

 of his own materials. Even the twenty millions of years advocated by some 

 appears no better. Therefore this j)hase of the mechanical theory of solar 

 heat is untenable. Neither can it account for the former igneous fluidity of 

 our globe. During the slow nebulous condensation the heat from that source 

 must have slowly radiated away, and we must look to the chemical combi- 

 nation of its elements for its former fused condition. 



VI. Mayer, the first originator of the meteoric theory of solar heat, calcu- 



1867.] 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



lated that the yearly accumulation of meteoric matter on the sun Tvould so 

 greatly increase the centripetal force of the solar system as to shorten our 

 years from f to | of a second. This shortening of our years does not agree 

 with our present astronomical observations. Moreover Laplace proved, from 

 the observations of Hipparchus, that during the last 20 centuries our days 

 have not been shortened by the one-three-hundredth part of a second. To 

 escape this difficulty Mayer proposed the extraordinary idea that, by the un- 

 dulatory theory, as well as by the old corpuscular theory of Newton, '■ the sun, 

 like the ocean, is all the while receiving and losing equal quantities of matter.'' 

 All the matter of the meteorites must be repelled back into space just as fast 

 as they fall. But this is in direct contradiction to the theory of the conserva- 

 tion of force. The force imparted to the sun by the fall of meteorites might 

 indeed repel them all back again preci.«ely where they came from, providing 

 there existed a condition of perfect elasticity. But this elastic rebound would 

 completely exhaust all the force received by the fall, and no force could be 

 left to be converted into light and heat. To make the sun give out light and 

 heat with a force equivalent to the fall, and also to send back the meteors 

 with a force equivalent to the fall, would be making the sun perform exactly 

 double duty. Still another objection arises, equally as strong: It would be 

 like saying that when a body burns, the products of combustion are radiated 

 away in the forms of light and heat. But experiments in abundance have 

 proved that chemical combinations lose none of their materials by light and 

 heat. It would be hard to find a more clear or a more acute mind than that 

 of JIayer, and yet, to save his grand and magnificent meteoric theory, he was 

 led, no doubt reluctantly, to this idea of immense quantities of matter radi- 

 ated away by the undulatory theory. We may say immense quanti- 

 ties, because the radiation of the sun would amount to his entire mass in 

 3,000,000 years ; and a mass equal to the great globe on which we dwell ia 

 the lifetime of an aged man. 



VII. Professor Wm. Thomson, of Edinburgh, endeavored to save the mete- 

 oric theory by a very different method. He supposed that meteorites are 

 revolving around the sun within the ear h's orbit, and that they appear to 

 our vision in the zodiacal light. Being resisted by the solar atmosphere, they 

 fall in the sun, and being already within our orbit their fall does not shorten 

 our year. There are two objections to this phase of the meteoric theory. The 

 first is that it does not allow time enough for geological facts. For the sta- 

 bility of the solar system, the meteorites must revolve around the sun in the 

 same direction as the planets. They must come down spirally and hasten 

 the rotation of the sun. Assuming that before their fall the sun did not ro- 

 tate on its axis, then, to keep up the present emission of heat, the meteorites, 

 according to Thomson, would give the present velocity to the sun in 32,000 

 years. Therefore sunlight has existed only daring the past 32,000 years. 

 Therefore the fossil plants away down in the lowest strata of our earth lived 

 and flourished and were nourished hy the light of the sun only 32,000 years 

 ago! Sir Charles L,,\ell, in his Antiquity of Man, calculated that the bones 

 and implements of men, found in what may truly be called superficial strata, 

 are at least 100,000 years old, and in this I believe he is now supported by 

 the assent of all geologists. 



The second objection to Prof. Thomson's phase of the meteoric theory, i3 

 that it opposes not only the geological, but also the nebular theory. The 

 nebular theory must no longer be regarded as a vague hypothesis, but as a 

 scientific verity. In The Origin of the Stars, and in a paper in this volume 

 of these Proceedings, I have proved mathematically that the velocities of all 

 the members of the solar system, more than a hundred in all, are just such as 

 they must have by the force of gravity acting according to the nebular the- 

 ory ; and that not only their various velocities, but the directions of their 

 complicated motions, and the positions of their orbits, are just what ihe force 

 of gravity would necessarily produce. I have given evidences equally as 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



strong that gravity imparted all their motions to all the stars in their orbits, 

 as we have ever had that gravity now holds them in those very orbits. For 

 these and many other reasons the nebular theory must be regarded as estab- 

 lished. The supposition that the rotation of the sun has been caused by me- 

 teorites is directly opposed to the very foundation of the nebular theory, 

 which teaches that the original rapid rotation of the sun by centrifugal force 

 produced all the planets, planetoids, and also these very meteorites of the zo- 

 diacal light, if such there be. These meteorites'must have had the same origin 

 as the other members of the solar system, because they move in the same plane 

 and in the same direction. Therefore these meteorites, if such there be, have 

 derived their velocities from the sun, and not the sun from the meteorites. 

 The wonder is, not that the sun now rotates so rapidly, but so slowly. When 

 his surface extended to the orbit of Mercury his velocity of rotation was 

 110,000 miles per hour. Now it is only 4560 miles per hour. How has it 

 been retarded? I have shown that in many, probably in most, cases the ro- 

 tation of a nebula can be only on the surface, and that ultimately it must be 

 retarded by friction on the unrotating interior. Between the orbit of Mercury 

 and the present surface of the sun, the velocity of rotation must have been 

 vastly increased in order to abandon any planetary or meteoric matter. But 

 in reality the velocity was decreased, and therefore none could have been 

 abandoned. Even before the abandonment of Mercury, there was a slacken- 

 ing of the rate of increase in solar rotation. It is on this account that the 

 interplanetary space between Venus and Mercury is greater than that between 

 the Earth and Venus, contrary to the law of all the other planets. For all the 

 interplanetary spaces become less and less in approaching toward the sun, in 

 consequence of the greater rate of nebular rotation. Therefore, in conse- 

 quence of the slackened rate of rotation, we could look, according to the 

 nebular theory, for no large mass of meteoric matter abandoned by the sun 

 inside the orbit of the earth. But, for argument sake, let us suppose that a 

 large amount of meteoric matter was thus abandoned, and let it be eqUal to 

 the mass of Venus. This truly is a very liberal allowance. Then how long 

 would its fall in the sun keep alive his preseat rate of heat? According to 

 Thomson, the fall of Venus in the sun would prolong his heat just 83 years 

 and 227 days. This is a wonderful contrast with the inconceivable millions 

 of years demanded by the other facts of science 



Mayer's phase of the meteoric theory is also opposed to the nebular theory. 

 I suppose he must have seen that the present interior heat of the earth and 

 its former entire igneous fusion could not be accounted for by the fall of me- 

 teorites, because they must have ceased gradually, and we would now find a 

 thick crust of meteoric matter on the surface of our planet. He therefore 

 supposes that the heat was caused by a collision with another large body. 

 This collision must have produced not only the heat but also the rotation of 

 the earth. The same must have occurred with the moon, because the lunar 

 mountains and volcanoes exhibit unmistakeable evidt^nces of former fusion 

 and interior heat. The same also must have happened to the other planets 

 and satellites, for they all rotate. Therefore, according to this view, each of 

 the planets and satellites must have found a fellow to strike them, most won- 

 derful to tell, precisely in the satne way, and impart to them all their rota- 

 tions in the same direction ! But the solar system is constructed on diflferent 

 principles. There can be no collision of large planetary bodies; much less 

 a very peculiar system of collisions to make them all rotate aad move iu their 

 orbits exactly in the same way ! 



Thus we see insurmountable objections against all the three phases of the 

 mechanical theory of solar heat. The old theory of luminous, calorific, 

 cloud-like envelopes floating in the atmosphere of the sun, is very generally 

 given up ; but even this does not attempt to point out the cause of the heat in 

 the supposed envelopes. There remains only the chemical theory, which hag 

 but the one objection, that there is not a sufficient amount of fuel in the sun. 



1867.] 




232 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



This objection I have shown, in The Origin of the Stars, to be founded on at 

 least three groundless assumptions ; founded, in fact, on our ignorance. It 

 pretends to say that the materials of the sun, pound for pound, can give out 

 no more heat than the materials of the earth. It pretends to say that the phy- 

 sical forces, all alive in the sun, can produce no more heat in connection with 

 chemical combination than in our laboratories. It pretends to say that in 

 the condensation of the sun no new chemical elements can be produced to 

 serve as new fuel. It pretends all this in profound ignorance of what it 

 ought to know for such assertions. On the contrary, I have shown various 

 probabilities that the vastly different materials of the sun give out unspeak- 

 ably more heat. I have shown various probabilities that all the physical 

 forces alive together in the sun can produce more heat in connection with 

 chemical combination ihan in our little laboratories. I have shown, what 

 seems to me conclusive proofs, that new chemical elements are now forming in 

 the sun to serve as new fuel. These probabilities I do not call my demon- 

 stration. But beyond all this I have given, as my special demonstration, large 

 numbers of facts aud arguments, derived from the earth, the sun and the fixed 

 stars, to prove that solar heat springs from chemical action. Until some one 

 in the scientific world attempts to answer my facts and arguments, I need 

 say nothing further. 



There are many other objections to the mechanical theory, but I think 

 quite enough have here been given to put the discussion at rest forever. 



Descriptions of Five New Species of Central American BIEDS. 

 BY GEO. N. LAWRENCE. 



1. GlAUCIS iENEUS. 



Front and top of the head dull brown, upper plumage besides of a shining 

 coppery bronze, the upper tail coverts are rather more bronzy, with dull 

 grayish margins ; the two central tail feathers are of a dull pale bronzy green, 

 the other tail feathers are chestnut at base, with a broad subterminal band 

 of black, all of them end in white ; ear coverts black; a pale rufous stripe 

 runs from the bill under the eye, and there is a postocular mark or streak of 

 the same color ; a dusky line extends from the under mandible down each 

 side of the neck; the entire under plumage and under tail coverts are of a 

 clear rufous ; upper mandible black, the under is dull yellow for two-thirds 

 its length, with the end black ; feet pale yellow. 



Length (skin) 4^ in. ; wing 2 l-ldth ; tail 1^ ; bill 1^. 



Habitat. — Costa Rica. Collected by A. R. Endrcs. Type in Museum of 

 Smithsonian Institution. 



Remarks. — This species differs from G. hirsuta aud its allies in the bronzy 

 coloring of its upper plumage, and also in being smaller ; in the well marked 

 band on the tail feathers it is much like G. affinis, but the color of the baud 

 is of a deeper black, not bluish black ; the tail feathers are narrower than in 

 affinis, and the uuder tail coverts more rufous. 



Several specimens examined vary only in some having their upper plum- 

 age more of a golden bronze, others being more coppery ; none have the 

 under mandible of a clear yellow, some scarcely showing that color, the bill 

 appearing to be entirely black. 



2. EUPHERL'S-'V. XIGRIVESTRIS. 



Fore part of the he id as far as upon a line with the back part of the eyes, 

 and the entire under surface deep velvety black ; occiput dull ashy brown, 

 upper plumage grass green tinged with golden ; upper tail coverts of a dull 

 coppery bronze ; the four central tail feathers blackish purple, the thiee 

 lateral on each side pure white; primaries brownish purple ; the wing coverts 

 green like the back ; the secondaries are chestnut at the base witu their ends 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



purple ; sides under the wiugs dull green ; the vent and under tail coverts 

 white ; bill black ; feet yellowish. 



Length (skin) 3f in. ; wing 2 ; tail 1| ; bill |. 



Habitat. — Costa Rica. Collected by A. R. Eudres. 



Type in Museum of Smithsonian Institution. 



Re III aria.— '^\\e combination of colors in this bird is of an unusiial charac- 

 ter, and I know of none which it at all resembles. I consider it strictly con- 

 generic with the species heretofore placed by me in Euphentxa, viz., my E. 

 cupreiccps and Thaumatias chionurus of Mr. Gould. In the present species 

 the character of the secondaries being chestnut, I think strengthen its claims 

 to an allinnce with E. exiinia. 



3. Thaumatias Lcci.e. 



Upper plumage of a dull bronzy dark green, the crown duller ; the upper 

 tail coverts of a lighter bronzy green, somewhat golden ; the tail feathers are 

 dull bronzy green, all exi-ept the two central ones are broadly marked near 

 their ends with dark purplish bronze, the tips being ashy gray ; the throat and 

 breast are glittering bluish green, middle of the abdomen white ; the under 

 tail coverts are light olive margined with white ; wings brownish purple ; 

 upper mandible black, the under yellow with the end blackish ; feet black. 



Length (skin) 3J in. ; wing 2^ ; tail 1| ; bill 13 16ths. 



Habitdt. — Honduras. 



Remarks. — In size and colors of the body this species is much like T. Lin- 

 ncei, but the tail is quite ditf'erent, and closely resembles, in the coloring of its 

 under surface, that of T. chionopectus. 



This was the only specimen in the collection from which I obtained it, but 

 there were many specimens of T. candidus. 



This species is dedicated to Miss Lucy Brewer, daughter of my friend Dr. 

 Thomas M. Brewer, of Boston. 



4. DroMOCOCCYX KUFICULARIS. 



Head above and entire upper plumage rich dark brown of a purplish lustre ; 

 the tips of the featliers on the head, back and wing covertt, are sparingly 

 marke I with minute spots of pale rufous, some of the larger coverts are more 

 rufous at their ends, the color extending for some distance along the shafts ; 

 the upper tail coverts, which are much lengthened, are of a.iuller brown than 

 the back, they have a greenish gloss, and are margined with dull gray ; the 

 tail feathers are much the same in color as the back, and are narrowly edged 

 on both webs with very pale rufous ; the tail underneath is of a clear grayish 

 ash, with the shafts of the feathers white, and the edges of the feathers 

 narrowly marked with whitish ; quill feathers brown, with their shafts white 

 underneath, and the inner webs marked with white at the base ; a postocu- 

 lar stripe of light rufous extends to the hind neck ; ear coverts dark brown ; 

 sides of the neck, throat and upper part of the breast rufous, paler on the 

 throat and deeper in color on the breast, on the latter some of the feathers 

 have their edges narrowly marked with black ; the color of the breast con- 

 nects with the rufous stripe running back from the eye ; the remaining under 

 parts with the under tail coverts, white ; the greater part of the upper man- 

 dible is black, the edges together with the under mandible being yellow ; 

 tarsi and toes brown, soles of the feet yellow. 



Length (skin) Id-^ in. ; wing ; tail ti^ ; tarsi 1^ ; bill f . 



Habitat. — Guatemala. Obtained from Dr. C. H. Van I'atten, who had no 

 knowledge concerning it, except that it came from a high mountain region. 



Remarks. — Thi- species is much smaller and of a more delicate form than 

 D. pliasianellits, Max. (D. mexicanus, Bp.), and is quite different in coloration, 

 that having the crown an<l crest dark cinnamon, the wing coverts conspicu- 

 ously edged with whitish, the postocular stripe nearly white and the throat 

 and upper breast spotted and streaked with black ; the feet in the new 

 species are much weaker. 



1867.] 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



5. Aramides albiventris. 



Occiput aud part of hind neck brownish cinnamon ; chin and throat 

 whiti^5h ; fore part of the head and crown, with the neck behind and in front 

 of a clear bluish gray ; back and wings greenish olive ; rump, tail, flanks, 

 abdomen and under tail coverts black ; thighs smoky black ; quills bright 

 reddish cinnamon ; under wing coverts dull pale cinnamon, with blackish 

 bars ; breast pale cinnamon, this color extending round partly on the back ; 

 tlie elongated feathers of the breast, which extend down the eides of the 

 abdomen are white, and form a conspicuous broad mark in shape of the letter 

 U inverted, which contrasts strikingly with the reddish and black colors 

 above and below it ; the bill is orange as far as the nostrils and pale greenish 

 yellow at the end ; the legs appear to have been light vermillion. 



Length about 21 in. ; wing 7-> ; tail 2|; bare part of tibia 1 ; tarsi 3 ; 

 bill 2^. 



Habitat. — British Honduras. 



Remarlc<. — I have had the above described specimen for some time, and 

 considered it to be a new species, but delayed publishing it. I have recently 

 obtainf-d another precisely like it, that came from Guatemala. 



It differs'from A. Ca»/ennensis, Gm., in the breast being of a pale instead 

 of a deep cinnamon red, and in having the white mark on the abdomen. 



Additional Note on the "CHINCH-BUG." 

 BY HENRY SHIMER, M. D. 



The "Chinch-bug" has entirely disappeared from this region, so far as I 

 have been able to observe. I have made diligent search since spring, with 

 the object of obtaining a few living specimens, but up to this time have not 

 succeeded in finding a single specimen. I am convinced that the efficient 

 cause of their entire destruction exists in the continuation of the epidemic 

 among them. Their overthrow is a cause of great rejoicing among the farmers. 

 And once more, as of yore, they have realized a bountiful wheat harvest. I 

 have but one thing to regret in their annihilation ; I neglected to obtain a 

 good supply of specimens, while they might have been secured by the wagon 

 load. 



Mt. Carroll, III, Sept. 16, 1867. 



Prof. Cope gave an account of the extinct reptiles which approached the 

 birds. He said that this approximation appeared to be at two points. The 

 first by the Pterosauria, to which the modified bird Archaeopteryx presented 

 points of affinity. The second, and one not less striking, is by the Dinosauria 

 of the orders Goniopoda and Symphypoda. He showed the essential differences 

 between the ordinary Dinosauria and the birds to consist in the distinct tarsal 

 bones in two series, the anteriorly directed pubes, and the presence of teeth, 

 of the first class. In the genus Ljelaps Cope, type of the Goniopoda, the prox- 

 imal series of tarsal bones was principally represented by one large astraga- 

 loid piece which had a very extensive motion on those of the second series. 

 This was immovably bound to, and embraced, the tibia, and was perhaps con- 

 tinuous with the fibula, much resembling the structure of the foot of the chick 

 of the ninth day, as given by Gegenbaur. The zygomatic arch was of a very 

 light description. He was convinced that the most bird-like of the tracks of 

 the Connecticut sandstone were made by a nearly allied genus, the Bathyg- 

 nathus Leidy. These creatures, no doubt, assumed a more or less erect po- 

 sition, and the weight of the viscera, etc., was supported by the slender and 

 dense pubic bones, which were to some extent analogous to the marsupial 

 bones of Implacental Mammalia, though probably not homologous with them. 



He said he was satisfied that the so-called clavicles of Iguanodon and other 

 Dinosauria were pubes, having a position similar to those of the Crocodilia. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



Also that a species of Lselaps had been observed in France, by Cuvier, which 

 was dififerent from the L. aquiiunguis, and which he proposed should be 

 called Laelaps g a 11 i c u s. 



Compsognathus Wagner, type of the Symphypoda, expressed the characters 

 of the latter in the entire union of the tibia and fibula with the first series ot ' 

 tarsal bones, a feature formerly supposed to belong to the class Ares alone, 

 until pointed out by Gegenbaur. This genus also offered an appi'oach to the 

 birds in the transverse direction of the pubes, (unless this be due to distortion 

 in the specimen figured by Wagner,) their position being intermediate between 

 the position in most reptiles and in birds. Other bird-like features were the 

 great number and elongation of the vertebrae of the neck, and the very light 

 construction of the arches and other bones of the head. 



He thought the penguin, with its separated metatarsals, formed an approach 

 on the side of the birds, but whether the closest approximation to the Sym- 

 phypoda should be looked for here or among the long-tailed Ratita^ (ostrich, 

 etc.,) he was unable to indicate. 



The following reports of the Curators, Librarian and Recording Sec- 

 retary were read : 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators, in the presentation of their usual Annual Report, take pleas- 

 ure in announcing to the members of the Academy that its Museum is 

 throughout in a fair state of preservation, and during the last year has con- 

 tinued to increase, through the interest and liberality of the lovers of natural 

 history. Through the same qualities we have been provided with a large 

 amount of means, upwards of $loO,000, towards the purchase of ground and 

 the erection of a more capaciotis building to accommodate the Museum. 

 However, even after sutficient means are procured for the completion of this 

 object, it is not enougli for the interests of the Academy and Science that we 

 should stop here. The Museum has now acquired such giant proportions 

 that voluntary labor can no longer be depended upon for the arrangement of 

 the cabinet ; indeed, the Museum in its present unarranged and often confused 

 condition, loses the greater part of its value to stu'ieuts. The time has 

 arrived when it is higlily important tliat means should be obtained to em- 

 ploy a Curator and competent assistants whose duty it shall be to classify, 

 arrange, and label the collection and maintain it in perfect order. 



The Museum of the Academy has become one of the most attractive places 

 of visit in our city, and with its collections properly arranged and labelled 

 will become a great school of popular instruction. During the past year, 

 though open only, as usual, two lialf days weekly, it was visited by 51,520 

 persons. 



If our city government appreciated the importance of the Academy as a 

 school of instruction to the people, it could not hesitate to aid it in its object, 

 by appropriating for its use, as has been repeatedly suggested, one of the 

 public squares at Broail and Market Streets. 



Tlie following account exhibits the contributions to the Museum in its 

 various departments during the year. 



Mammah. — Fifteen specimens were presented by Dr. J. H. Slack, Dr. H. B. 

 Butcher, U. S. A., S. Powel, Rev. Alden Grant, Mr. Reeves, Joseph E. Shaw, 

 G. J. Durham, O. Biddle, W. S. Vaux, and E. D. Cope. 



Birds. — One hundred and ninety-one from Alaska and Hudson Bay Terri- 

 tory, were presented by tlie Smithsonian Institution ; 67 from Texas, by Dr. 

 H. B. Butcher, U. S. A., and 43 species of birds, nests and eggs, were pre- 

 sented by Dr. William Zaremba, Dr. V. B. Hubbard, U. S. A., Rev. Alden 



1867.J 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Grout, Dr. George Smith, Mrs. Horace Fassitt, Capt. Thomas Clarkson, Mr. G. 

 J. Durham, and Mr. W. S. Vaux. 



Reptiles. — At different times Prof. E. D. Cope presented collections compris- 

 ing together many species ; and other collections were presented hy Dr. 

 George H. Horn, Mr. W. S. Vaux and Prof. M. Miles. Seven species were 

 presented hy Capt. R. B. Ely, Rev. E. R. Beadle, Mr. Rohert Swift, Dr. C. W. 

 Zaremba and Dr. E. J. Lewis. 



Fishes. — Many species, fresh wnter and marine, were presented at different 

 times by Prof. E. D. Cope, and a small collection fiom Surinam was presented 

 hy the Smithsonian Institution. Seven species were presei'ted by Dr. G. H. 

 Horn, Mr. E. Homan, Col. W. H. Yeatou, Dr. S. Ashhurst, Dr. Slack and Mr. 

 J. D. Sergeant. 



MoUnshs. — Above all other departments of the Museum of the Academy, 

 the conchological cabinet has been greatly enriched the past year. Mr. George 

 W. Tryon, Jr., has deposited his collection of upwards 10,000 specif s. in ad- 

 dition to loo jars of alcoholic specimens, mainly naked mollusks. Through 

 this extensive addition the conchological collection of the Academy has be- 

 come one of the largest in the world. Through the activity of the Concho- 

 logical section of the Academy during the year, our cabinet has also received 

 many available additions, for the details of which we refer to the report of the 

 Conservator of that Section. 



Articulates. — Small collections of Crustacea, and a few specimens of insects, 

 &c. , were presented by Capt. Ely, Wm. M. Gabb, J. R. Thompson, E. R. 

 Beadle, F. Guckert, Dr. G. R. McCoy, and R. Frazer. 



Radiates — Small collections were received from Robert Swift and W. M. 

 Gabb, and specimens were presented by A. Black, A. C. Kline, J. Cassin, J. 

 Harrod, and S. Powel. 



Fossils. — Prof. E. D. Cope presented a valuable collection of remains of an 

 extinct whale, Eschrichtius cephalus, a Basilosaurus, B. atlanticus, a new 

 B. mento, and a number of rays, from the miocene formation of Maryland. 

 Drs. Francis and Samuel Ashhurst also prest^nted several collections com- 

 prising many fragments of bones of sauriaus, chelonians, and Sshes, from 

 the green sand of New Jersey. Dr. LeConte presented collections of remains 

 of fishes, shells, and plants from the cretaceous and other formations of Kan- 

 sas and New Mexico. Mr. William Brown, through William M. Gabb, pre- 

 sented a fine specimen consisting of the greater part of the skull of the great 

 extinct Bison antiquus, from San Francisco, Cal., and Dr. Geo. H. Horn pre- 

 sented remains of an extinct hor.se, from California. Small collections of 

 fossils and specimens were also presented by T. A. Conrad, Dr. S. B. Howell, 

 Dr. N. M. Glatfelder, Dr. 1. Hays, James W. Carson, W. H. Stevens, J. Krider, 

 W. S. Vaux, P. W. Sheafer, Dr. G. W. Hall, and Charles E. Smith. 



Minerals. — -Fifty-nine specimens were presented by I. Lea, W. S. Vaux, S. 

 F. Peck, Rev. E. R. Beadle, W. H. Boyer, the Resolute Mining Co., B.' A. 

 Hoopes, Dr. J. L. LeConte, Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, Wm. L. Mactier, 

 Joseph Harrod, A. R. Leeds, A. C. Kline, Dr. G. Lincecum and E. J. Houdon. 



Botany. — A collection of Australian plants was presented by Prof. Asa 

 Gray, and collections of plants were presented by the Rev. Mr. Reeve and by 

 Mrs. Carolina A. Hiester. Miscellaneous botanical specimens were presented 

 by E. D. Kennedy, A. D. Jessup, Wm. M. Gabb, Joseph Harrod, T. Meehan 

 and Mi.-s Helen Blytbe. 



Comparative Anatomy. — Wm. M. Gabb presented eight skulls of California 

 Indians, besides two other skulls. Fifteen skulls of mammals were presented 

 by R. Swift, E. D. Cope and W. S. Vaux ; and six miscellaneous anatomical 

 specimens were presented by R. Swift, L. H. Deal, W. Taggart, and S. B. 

 Howell. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



Miscellaneous. — Dr. G. Lincecum presented 36 jars of zoological specimens 

 from Texas ; Mr. Cope presented a collectiou of ludiau relics ; and an antique 

 copper hammer from Lake Superior was presented by S. F. Peck. Miscella- 

 neous specimens were presented by Jos. M. Valdespino, Dr. Shippen, J. R. 

 Thompson, F. Dick, Dr. John C. Spear, U. S. A., F. Coxe, J. G. McCleuahau, 

 J. Cassia, H. Allen and S. B. Howell. 



Respectfully submitted by 



JOSEPH LEIDY, 



Chairman of the Curators. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The Librarian most respectfully reports that the number of donations to the 

 Library from January to December, 1^67, inclusive, is 1681. 



Uf these there were volumes 380 



pamphlets 1295 



maps ti 



Total 1681 



As follows ; 



Folios 28 



Quartos 418 



Uctavos 1207 



Duodecimos 22 



Maps 6 



Total 1681 



These were derived from the following sources : 



Editors 157 And were divided as follows : 



Authors 209 Anatomy and Physiology 13 



Societies 629 Bibliography 14 



Library Fund 201 Botany 39 



Wilsou Fund , l(iO Chemistry 1 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr 208 Conchology 328 



Publishers 8 Eutomology 45 



Minister of Public Works, France 7 General iSatural History 53 



Dr. Jos. Leidy 4 Geology 103 



S. S. Haldeman 17 Helminthology 6 



J. Gwyn Jeffreys 14 Herpetology 4 



A. &U. Adams 38 Ichthyology 8 



Hon. .Secretary of the Navy 1 Journals 959 



Wm. S. Vaux 1 Langxiages 3 



Treasury Department 7 Mammalogy... 5 



U. S. Coast Survey 1 Medicine 19 



Smithsonian Institution 6 Mineralogy 14 



Geological Survey of India 7 Ornithology 33 



Hon. Leonard Myers 1 Physical Science 21 



Hon. Chas. Sumner 1 Useful Arts 1 



Mrs. Lucy W. Say 1 Voyages and Travels 12 



Chas. E. Smith 1 



Surgeon General U. S. A 2 Total 1681 



Total 1681 



One hundred and sixty volumes and two hundred and thirty three pamph- 

 lets were presented through the Conchological Section of thf Academy. 

 Allot which is respectfully submitted. J. D. SERGEANT. 



18G7.] 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



During the year ending November 30th, 1867, there have been elected one 

 hundred and eleven members and sixty-six correspondents. 



The death of the following members and correspondents have been an- 

 nounced : 



Ten members — namf^ly : Mr. Edward F. Sanderson, Mr. Robett Kennicott, 

 Mr. William Norris, Prof. Alex. D. Bache, Washington Sherman, M. D., C. 

 W. Pennock, M. D., Mr. Samuel C. Morton, Miss Margaretta H. Morris, Mr. 

 .Jacob Pierce, Mr. Richard M. Marshall ; 



Nine correspondents— namely : Rev. Stephen Elliott, Geo. W. Featherston- 

 haugh. Dr. Brackeuridge Clemens, Prince Maximilian Zu Wied, Dr. Geo. Jager, 

 Dr. C. M. Diesing, Prof. Farraday, Dr. Zimmerman, Rev. Dr. C. Dewey. 



Three members have lesigned. 



The number of papers contributed and ordered to be printed in the Proceed- 

 ings and Journal during the year has been thirty-six, as foUov/s : 



In the Proceedings thirty-three ; namely — 



Aubrey H. Smith 1 G. C. Lincecum, M.D 1 



Thomas Meehan 4 J. H. Slack, M.D 1 



E. D. Cope 5 



Isaac Lea 2 



Henry Shimer, M.D 2 



Jacob Ennis 1 



D. G. Elliott 1 



Richard Hill 1 



Geo. H. Horn, M.D 2 



In the Journal three ; namely — 



E. D. Cope 3 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



S. B. Howell, Recording Secretary 



H. C. Wood, Jr., M.D 2 



John Cassin 4 



Alphonso Wood 1 



Geo. N. Lawrence 1 



Elliott Coues, M.D 1 



John L. Le Conte, M.D 4 



The following reports were read from the Coochological Section : 

 REPORTS OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



The Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences would beg 

 leave to report-^ 



That the Section was organized by the election of officers, Dec. 6th, 1866. 

 Six members and seventy-three correspondents have been elected during the 

 year. Two members have resigned, and one correspondent has died. Meet- 

 ings have been regularly held on the evening of the first Thursday of each 

 month. Correspondence has been opened with scientific gentlemen in this 

 country and abroad, as will be seen by the Secretary's report. 



A number of articles on scientific subjects have been published, as well as 

 consecutive numbers of the "American Journal of Conchology," and the 

 " Monograph of Terrestrial Mollusca." 



Donations to the library have been numerous, as noticed in report of the 

 Librarian. 



Additions to the collection during the year have been beyond all precedent 

 in the number and value of specimens, as may be seen by the Conservator's 

 report. 



In conclusion, we venture to express the hope that, under the fostering care 

 of the Academy, this Section may prove an efficient arm of the service, in 

 carrying on the work which this noble institution is destined to accomplish 

 for true science and the diffusion of knowledge. 



E. R. Beadle, Secretary. 



[D 



ec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



289 



BEPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



Letters have been addressed to the following gentlemen, announcing their 

 election as correspondents : 



Prof. Louis Agassiz, Cambridge, Mass. 



John Ct. Anthony, Cambridge, Mass. 



Geo. French Angas, Australia. 



Henry Adams, London. 



Arthur Adams, London. 



Tho3. Bland, New York. 



H. Benson, Cheltenham, England. 



J. R. Bourguignat, Paris. 



Dr. August Baudou, Bauvaia, France. 



Luigi Benoit, Messina, Sicily. 



Hon. L. E. Chittenden, New York. 



Dr. P. L. Carpenter, Montreal, C. W. 



Col. F. F. Canada, Tr. de Cuba. 



M. H. Crosse, Paris. 



Dr. J. C. Clienu, Paris. 



Hon. Edward Cliitty, .Jamaica. 



Fredk. Calliaud, Nantes, France. 



Dr. J. C. Cooper, San Francisco. 



Dr. .1. C. Cox, N. S. W. 



M. G. P. Deshayes, Paris. 



Prof. Wm. Duuker, Marburg, Hesse. 



William H. De Camp, M. D., Grand 



Rapids, Mich. 

 Henri Drouet, Troves, France. 

 Dr. Paul Fischer, Paris. 

 Prof. Theo. Gill, Washington, D, C. 

 Wm. M. Gabb, San Francisco. 

 Prof. J. E. Gray, London. 

 J. B. Gassies, Bordeaux, France. 

 Dr. J. Guudlach, Havana, Cuba. 

 Prof. James Hall, Albany, N. Y. 

 Prof. F. S. Holmes, Charleston, S. C 

 Alpheus Hyatt, Salem, Mass. 

 Sylvester Han ley, Middlesex, Eng. 

 J. Gonzales Hidalgo, Madrid, Spain. 

 J. C. Jay, M.D., Rye, N. Y. 

 J. Gwyn Jetfryes, London. 

 J. P. kirtland, M.D., Cleveland, 0. 

 Fi^sderick Krauss, Stuttgard. 



Letters have also been written to the following gentlemen : 



April 22d, 18(37. — W. T. Blanford, Calcutta, proposing an exchange of pub- 

 lications and specimens ; 



Dr. K'aladilhe, Montpelier, France ; 



Jules Mabille, Paris ; proposing exchanges. 



May 1th. — D. Rafael Arango, Cuba, proposing an exchange of specimens. 



S?p>. llth. — Hon. L. E. Chittenden, New York, accepting proposals to send 

 shells. 



Sept. 12th. — Sylvester Hanley, accepting proposals for an exchange ; 



W. T. Blandford, Calcutta, accepting proposals for an exchange. 



Letters have been received from the following gentlemen, accepting of their 

 election as correspondents ; 



May 9<A.^D. S. Sheldon, Davenport, Iowa. 



1807.] 



Dr. H. C. Kiister, Cassel. 

 James Lewis, M.D., Mohawk, N.Y, 

 Prof. Albert Mousson, Zurich, Sw. 

 Edward F. Morse, Salem, Mass. 

 Prof. F. B. Meek, Washington, D. C. 

 R. P. Montrouzier, New Caledonia. 

 Arthur Morelet, Dijon, France. 

 Prof. 0. A. L. Morch, Copenhagen. 

 Jules Mabille, Dinau, France. 

 Wesley Newcomb, M. D., Oakland, 



California. 

 Temple Prime, New York. 

 Patricio Maria Paz, Madrid, Spain. 

 Dr. Louis Pfeiffer, Cassel. 

 Prof. F. Poey, Havana, Cuba. 

 Baron de Castello de Paiva, Lisbon. 

 Dr. R. A. Philippi, Santiago, Cuba. 

 M. C. Recluz, Paris. 

 Wm. D. Stimpson, M.D., Chicago. 

 E. R. Showalter, M. D., Uniontown, 



Alabama. 

 Prof. G. B. Sowerby, London. 

 Prof. D. S. Sheldon, Davenport, Iowa 

 Petit de la Saussaye, Paris. 

 R. E. C. Stearns, San Francisco. 

 Abbe Joseph Stabille, Milan. 

 M. Souverbie, Bordeaux, France. 

 J. H. Thompson, New Bedford, Mass. 

 Prof. F. H. Troschell, Bonn, Prussia. 

 A. P. Tiirver, Lyons, France. 

 Professor George Ritter von Fraunfeld, 



Vienna. 

 Prof. P. J. Van Beneden, Bruxelles, 

 Prof. Van Mohrenstein, Vienna. 

 Dr. Levi Vaillant, Paris. 

 Prof. Van den Buseh, Bremen. 

 J. R. Willis, Halifax. 

 Alex. Winchell, Ann Arbor, Mich. 



B. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



May 11^/i.— James Lewis, M. D., Mohawk, N. Y. ; Win. Stimpson, M. D., 

 Chicago. 



May I5th. — E. R. Showalter, M.D., Alabama. 



May ISfA. — J. Gr. Anthony, Cambridge, Mass. 



Maij 2M. — Temple Prime, New York. 



May 29th.— 3. C. Jay, M.D., Rye. N. Y. ; F. C. Morse, Salem, Mass. 



June 1st. — Thomas Bland, New York. 



June 2S</;.— Alexander Witichell, Michigan. 



July rZth.—Frof. Theodore Gill, Washington, D. C. 



Julij 31.s^— Col. F. F. Cavada, Cuba. 



Aur/. 12?A.— Prof. F. B. Meek, Washington, D. C. 



Letters have been received from the following gentlemen, offering to send 

 shells or exchange specimens : 



1867. Sept. 4th.— Eon. L. E. Chittenden, New York ; Sylvester Hanley, 

 Middlesex, England. 



Sept. 5?A.— Prof. J. E. Gray, British Museum ; W. T. Blanford, Calcutta. 

 All of which is respectfully submitted. E. R. Beadle, 



Dec. 5, 1867. Corres. Sec'y. 



BEPORT OF THE CONSERVATOR. 



The Conservator of the Conchological Section respectfully reports that the 

 Conchoiogical cabinet has been increased during the year by the following 

 donations and purchases : 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., presented six specimens of shells exhibiting internal 

 structure ; Magilis antiquus from the Red Sea ; Helix Parkerii ; ninety-five 

 species selected from the Poulson Collection, and about two hundred addi- 

 tional duplicate species from tlie same collection ; four specimens of Cephalo- 

 pods, in spirits, and forty-eight species, numerous specimens of Australian 

 shells, together with a collection of Cephalopods and other naked moUusks in 

 spirits. 



One hundred and eighty- four species of marine shells from Italy were re- 

 ceived from Sylvanus Hanley ; one hundred and fifty-six species, three thou- 

 sand nine hundred specimens of Unionidse and Melania chiefly from Alabama, 

 from E. R. Showalter, M.D.; types of sixty-four species of Polynesian shells, 

 described by W. H. Pease, were received from their dtscriber. One hundred 

 and six species, numerous specimens of shells from Canary Islands, Green- 

 land, Arabia and Chili were presented by 0. A. L. Morch. 



S. S. Haldeman presented his type specimens of the genera Limnea, Pla- 

 norbis and Physa. 



One hundred and four species of American terrestrial and fluviatile shells 

 were received from E. Hall ; one hundred and twenty-two species, numerous 

 specimens of Polynesian shells from Dr. J. C. Cox; ninety-one species'of 

 shells from Australia, South America, Palestine, &c., from W. P. Wilstach. 

 One hundred and forty species, numerous specimens of land and fresh-water 

 shells, were presented by Aug. Brot, M.D., of Geneva. 



Rev. E. R. Beadle presented a specimen of Navea Newcombii, a perforating 

 Haliotus, from Lower California, three species of Cuban shells, and two spe- 

 cimens of Pinna squamosa, from the Mediterranean Sea, Mactra lateralis. 

 Say, VolutaTurneri, a large collection of Solens, Mactrse, &c., and five species 

 of terrestrial shells from Syria and Java, 



Thirty-one species, numerous specimens of Cuban land shells were received 

 from Col. F. F. Cavada. 



Collections were also presented by G. A. Lathrop, A. 0. Currier, J. R. Wil- 

 lis, C. F. Parker, F. fl. Aldiich, Wm. M. Gabb, Dr. Jos. Leidy, F. A. Ran- 

 dall, E. D. Cope, John Ford and Andrew J. Bennett. 



Sixty-three species, namerous specimens, were received from Dr. E. W. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 241 



Hubbard, John Krider, J, E. Eshleman, S. R. Roberts, Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr., 

 Isaac Lea, Geo. Scarborough, W. D. Hartman, M.D., Geo. H. Horn, M.D., John 

 Cassin, Thos. Bland, Wesley Newconib, Wru. S. Vaux, R. E. C. Stearns, Miss 

 Anna Abbott, J. L. Julius, J. H. Redfield, Dr. James Lewis, and Jacob Ennis. 



Types of Rafinesque's Unios, with the original labels in his handwriting, 

 were obtained by purchase from the collection of the late Cha.'^. A. Poulson. 



In addition to the above, the magnificent collection of over one hundred 

 thousand specimens of ten thousand species, deposited by Mr. Geo. W. 

 Tryon, Jr., has been received and incorporated with the main collection, 

 making our cabinet richer than any other in the world in specimens, and 

 the richest in spi-cies with one exception, that of the British Museum. 



A collection of one hundred and eight speoies of American shells has been 

 sent to Dr. J. C. Cox, of Sydney, Australia, in exchange for Polynesian 

 shells, received from him. A similar collection has been sent to M. Luigi 

 Benoit, of Sicily, and a smaller one to M. Spiridione Brusina. 



The varioiis collections received during the year have been arranged, 

 labelled and dejiosited in their proper places in the cabinet by Messrs. 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., Chas. F. Parker, S. R. Boberts and others, who have 

 devoted much time and labor to the work. The proper systematic arrange- 

 ment has been somewhat interfered with in consequence of the very limited 

 accommodation afforded our magnificent collection in our present building, 

 nor can any remedy for this inconvenience be at present suggested. 



Dr. S. B. Howell has kindly undertaken the arrangement of our alcoholic 

 collection, and has made considerable progress therein. 



Opportunity having offered to aci|uire a portion of the collection of shells 

 belonging to the late Hugh Cuming, of London, which portion consists of 

 about one thousand species not yet in our museum, a subscription list was 

 opened, and our appeal having been answered encouragingly, the shells 

 were ordered, and some of them are now on their way to the Academy. 



Although the Conchological Section of the Academy has been in exist- 

 ence but little over a year, yet an observation of its present condition can- 

 not, we believe, fail to be gratifying to all interested in the science for the 

 encouragement of which it was instituted. Whilst the augmentation of the 

 collection during that time has been beyond all precedent, a reference to the 

 list of our contributors will prove that the interest taken in the department 

 is not ci'nfined to our members alone, but is manifested by others who are 

 not so intimately connected with us, both at home and abroad. 



In conclusion, we beg leave to congraUilate those present that, through their 

 instrnmeniality, the interest heretofore manifested in our science has been 

 greatly increased, and to hope that their efforts may be still farther success- 

 ful in the future in gaining for Conchology that prominent position among 

 the Natural Sciences which it so well deserves. 

 Respectfully submitted by 



JOSEPH LEIDY, Conservator. 



LIBRARIAN'S REPORT. 

 There have been presented during the past year to the Conchological Sec- 

 tion of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 140 volumes, and 298 periodicals. 

 Pamphlets, &c. Of these works, 195 are from Authors, 12 from Editors, 14 

 from Societies, 12 from Smithsonian Institution, 5 frotn Publication Conimit- 

 tee of Concliological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences, and 140 

 bound volumes, and (jO pam]>lilets, &c., from (!. W. Tryon, Jr. 



In addition to the above tliere have been presented to tlie Academy of 

 Natural Sciences, 21 volumes, pamphlets, &c., on Conchological subjects. 

 Respectfully submitted. 



C. F. PARKER, 



Librarian. ' 



1867.] 16 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY. 



The election of oflScers for the ensuing year was held in accordance 

 with the By-Laws, with the following result : 



President Isaac Hays, M.D. 



Vice-Presidents Wm. S. Vaux, 



John Cassin. 



Corresponding Secretary Harrison Allen, M.D. 



Recording Secretary Samuel B. Howell, M.D. 



Treasurer Wm. C. Henszey. 



Librarian Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Curators Jos. Lcidy M.D. 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 Edw. D, Cope. 



Auditors Jos. Jeanes, 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Aubrey H. Smith. 



Publication Committee Jos. Leidy, M.D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Robert Bridges, M.D. 

 John Cassin, 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



The following were elected members : 



J. Ronaldson Magee, Horace Magee, Isaac S. Waterman, A. J. Antelo, 

 Wm. G. Moorhead, Richard K. Belts, George W. Brown, M.D., 

 Henry R. Silliman, M.D., U.S.A., Edwin Sheppard, Jos. Willcox and 

 Josiah W. Leeds. 




ELECTIONS. 243 



ELECTIONS FOR 1867. 



The following persons were elected Members — viz. : 



Jan. 29. — J. E. Farnum, W. H. Stevens, Edw. B. Edwards, Jas. Levick, 

 M.D., Chas. Gibbons, John B. Austin, Wm. S. Baird, Edwin Greble, Walter 

 B. Smith, Wilson M. Jenkins, C. J. Haseltine. 



Feb. 2(3. — Evans Randolph, Francis R. Cope, Joseph Patterson. Richard M. 

 Marshall, Benjamin Marshall. John Livezey, Chas. H. Borie, Thos. P. Cope, 

 Miss R. A. Cope, Mrs. E. H. Vaux, Jos. S. Lovering, Jr., Saml. P. Carpenter, 

 Richard R. Robb, Wm. Hacker, Stephen Colwell, Miss Ann Haines, Miss Jane 

 R. Haines, F. L. Bodine, Horace M. Bellows, M. D., John G Stetler, M. D., 

 Wm. Procter, Jr., Anthony Heger, M.D., U.S.A. 



March 26. — Samuel Ashhurst, M.D., Francis Ashhurst, M.D., Rev. J. L. 

 Beman, Chas. Smith, Thomas Earp, Cliarles Taylor, Moro Phillips, Samuel 

 Welsh, Lewis Cooper, Benj. B. Comegys, S. C. Morton, Mrs. E. P. Long, 

 Miss Bohlen. 



April 30. — Wm. Hay, Jas. H. Little, Beaveau Borie, J. Ross Snowden, Wm. 

 W. Keen, Jr., M.D., Edw J. Nolan, M.D., Chas. Magarge, Chas. S. Coxe, I. 

 V. Williamson, Matthew Baird, Chas. Wheeler, Robert H. Gratz, Adolph E. 

 Borie, H. Pratt McKeau, George F. Tyler, Wistar Morris, Jos. F. Page, Israel 

 Morris, A. Campbell, Thos. A. Scott, H. H. Houston, Chas. Spencer, Gustavus 

 S. Benson, Wm. A. Blanchard. 



May 28.— Asa Whitney, Geo. Whitney, .Jdo. R. Whitney, E. W. Clark, Clarence 

 H. Clark, Frank H. Clark, Theo. H. Morris, O. N. Beach, Jas. N. Whelen, Wm. 

 A. Whelen, Alexander Whilldin, Orlando Crease, Andrew I. Sloan, D. Murray 

 Cheston, M.D., Edw. C. Knight, C. P. Bayard, Jay Cooke, A. J. Drexel, Jas. A. 

 Wright, John T. Taitt, Jr., John Baird, Thos. Clyde. John B. Trevor, Thomas 

 Potter, Frank Haseltine, Clarence S. Bement, Danl. H. Rockhill, Franklin S. 

 Wilson, Rev. J. C. Ralston, Wm. R. White. 



June 25. — S. Morris Wain, B. Hammit, 



July 30. — Henry C. Gibson, Andrew M. Moore, John Gibson, T. Brantly 

 Langdon. 



Aug. 27. — James K. Tyson, M.D., Wm. Pepper, M.D., Geo. Pepper, M.D , 

 Horace Binney Hare, M.D , Elias D. Kennedy. 



Sept. 24.— A. G. Hinkle, M.D., Chas. H. Thomas, M.D. 



Oct. 29.— Chas. W. Matthews. 



Nov. 26.— Edw. R. Murphy, Lloyd P. Smith, F. A. Hassler, M.D., G. Y. 

 Shoemaker, Matthew Newkirk. 



Dec. 31. — J. Ronaldson Magee, Horace Magee, Isaac S. Waterman, A. J. 

 Antelo, Wm. G. Moorhead, Richard K. Betts, Geo W. Brown, M.D., Henry R. 

 Silliman, M.D., U.S.A., Edwin Sheppard, Jos. Willcox, Josiah VV. Leeds. 



The following were elected Correspondents — viz. : 



Jan. 25.— Prof. 0. C. Marsh, of New Haven, Conn. ; Prof. Wm. H. Brewer, 

 of New Haven, Conn. 



March 26. — John R. Willis, of Halifax, N. S. ; Gideon Lincecum, of Long 

 Point, Texas; Samuel H. Scudder, M.D., of Boston; Hon. Geo. P. Marsh, of 

 Florence, Italy. 



April 30.— Col. Frederick F. Cavada, U. S. Consul at Trinidad de Cuba; 

 Eugene Gaussoin, Ph.D., of Baltimore, Md. ; Alpheus Hyatt, of Salem, Mass.; 

 F. W. Putnam, of Salem, Mass. 




244 



ELECTIONS. 



May 28.— E. E. Adams, D.D. ; D. Antonio Raimondi, M.D., of Lima, Peni ; 

 Alexander Wiuubell, of Ann Arbor, Mich. ; Henry Pleasants, of Pottsville, 

 Penn. 



June 25. — C. William Zaremba, of St. Joseph's, Mich. ; H. E. Dresser, of 

 London; M. H. Crosse, of Paris; Paul Fischer, M.D., of Paris; M. J. R. 

 Sourguignat, of Paris ; R. P. Montrouzier, of New Caledonia ; George French 

 Angas, of Port Jackson, Australia ; Henry Adams and Arthur Adams, of Lon- 

 don ; J. C. Chenu. M.D., of Paris; Hon Edw. Chitty, of Kingston, Jamaica; 

 J. B. Gassies, of Bordeaux ; Sylvanus Hanl^y, of London ; J. (iwynn Jeffreys, 

 of Loudon; Dr H. C. Kiister, of Cassel ; Arthur Mo relet, of Dijon; Dr. Louis 

 Pfeiffer, of Cassel ; Prof, 0. A. L. Morch, of Copenhagen ; Prof. F. H. Troschel, 

 of Bonn, Prussia; G. S. von Mohn-nstern,, of Vienna ; Frederick Cailliaud, of 

 Nantes ; A. P. Terver, of Lyons; Petit de la Saussaye, of Paris ; Wesley New- 

 comb, M.D., of Oakland, Cal. ; Dr. J. G. Cooper, of San Francisco ; R. E. C. 

 Stearns, of San Francisco : Prof. iF. Poey, of Havana ; Dr. J. Gnndlach, of 

 Havana; Dr. R. A. Philippi, of Santiago, Chili; H. Benson, of Cheltenham, 

 England; Henri Drouet, of Troyes ; Dr. Aug. Baudon, of Beaiivais, France; 

 M. C. Recluz, of Vaugirard, near Paris; Dr. Leon Vaillant, of Paris; Baron 

 de Castello de Paiva, of Lisbon ; Dr. G. Von dem Busch, of Bremen ; J. C. 

 Cox, of Sydney N. S. W. ; Jules Mabille, of Dinou, France ; Luigi Benoit, of 

 Messina ; J. Gonzales Hidalgo, of Madrid ; Abbe Joseph Stabile, of Milan ; M. 

 Souverbie, of Bordeaux. 



July 30. — Rev. E. Johnson, of Sandwich Islands. 



Aug. 27. — Geo. J. Durham, of Austin, Texas; John Henry Gurney, of Nor- 

 folk, Eng. ; Osbert Salvin, of London ; T. C. Jerdon, M.D., of Madras, India ; 

 Prof. J. Reinhardt, of Copenhagen, Denmark. 



Sept. 24.— Alphonso Wood, of West Farms, N. Y. 



Nov. 26.— Wm. S. Bingham, of Boston ; Prof. 0. Root, of Hamilton College, 

 N. Y. ; Col. E. Jewett, of Utica, N. Y. 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY. 

 For iser. 



Letters were received and read as follows : 



January 29th. — Physicalish Medicinische Gesellscbaft, Sept. 7, 1866 ; 



Naturforschende Gesellscbaft des Osterlande, Altenburg, Oct. 18, 1866 ; 



K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt. Vienna, Sept. 30, 1866 : 



K. Gesellscbaft fiir Wissenschaften, G5ttingen, severally acknowledging 

 receipt of Proceedings. 



Naturforschende Gesellscbaft in Emden, Oct. 1, 1866 ; 



Wissenschaftliche Verein, Luneburg, Oct. ], 1866; 



Naturkundige Gesellscbaft in Wurtemburg, Stuttgart, Aug. 1. 1866, ac- 

 knowledging receipt of Proceedings and transmitting publications. 



Entomological Societv. Paris. Dec. 22, 1866; 



Naturforschende Gesellscbaft zu Halle, Sept. 23, 1866 ; 



Mannheim Verein fiir Naturkunde, Oct., 1866, severally transmitting their 

 publication. 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C, Oct. 8, 1866, acknowledging 

 receipt of Journal. 



Review of the Literary and Scientific Course, Paris, Dec. 20, 1866, accepting 

 exchange upon certain conditions. 




CORRESPONDENCE. 245 



February 26th. — H. C. "U'ood, Jr., M. D., tendering his resignation as Recor- 

 ding Secretary. 



Jos. Jeanes, resigning his position as Corresponding Secretary. 



Jos Starr, tendering his resignation as a member of the Academy. 



Recorder of the Conchological Section, announcing their organization and 

 election of officers. 



April 23d — Captain Snow, offering his services to the Academy as lecturer. 



April 30th. — J. Vaughan Merrick, Apr. 29, asking co-operation on the part 

 of the Academy in the erection of new buildings for the combined scientific 

 societies of Philadelphia. 



Finance Committee of the Lyceum of Natural History of William's College, 

 asking co-operation in a scientific e.xpeditiou to South America. 



J. M. S. Thackara. and Samuel H. Scudder, M.D., acknowledging receipts of 

 notifications of election. 



Mai/ 28th. — J. Ross Snowden, acknowledging his election as member. 



June 25th. — Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., June 18th, accompanying the deposit of his 

 collection of shells. 



Also the following : 



Wm. Procter, Jr.. Phila., March 4th, 1867 ; 



A. Heger, M. D., U. S. A., New York, March Y, 1867 ; 



Jas. H. Little, Buckingham P. 0., June 19th, 1867 ; 



E. W. Clark, Philadelphia, July 16th, 1867 ; 



L. H. Carpenter, Austin, Texas, Sept. 20th, 1866 ; 



Horace B. Hare, M. D., Philadelphia, Aug. 28th, 1867, severally acknowl- 

 edging their election as members of the Academy. 



Abbe Joseph Stabile, Milan, Feb. 9th, 1867; 



Samuel Scudder, Boston, April 8th, 1867 ; 



Geo. P. Marsh, Florence, April 20th, 1867 ; 



Edw. L Berthoud, Golden City, May 22d, 1867; severally acknowledging 

 their election as correspondents of the Academy. 



Royal Society of Edinburgh, Jan. 10th, 1867 ; acknowledging receipt of 

 Proceedings. 



A. H. Smith, M. D., U. S. A., Harts Island, Jan. 24th, 1867, requesting in- 

 formation respecting membership. 



J. A. Heintzleman, Feb. 6th, 1867, tendering his resignation of member- 

 ship. 



Oliver W. Barnes, Feb. 19th, 1867, tendering his resignation of member- 

 ship. 



W. H. Dau, Fort St. Michaels, Sept. 30th, 1866, informing the Academy of 

 the death of R. Kennicott. 



T. Morris Perot, Feb. 1st, 1867, transmitting petition memorializing Con- 

 gress upon the subject of importation of books for public libraries free from 

 tariff rates. 



Dr. Wm. Zaremba, March 14th, 1867, making inquiry relative to donations, 

 &c. ; April 1st, requesting copy of by-laws. 



Chas. H. Doerflinger, March 15th, 1867, transmitting donation to library. 



L. W. Schmidt, March 21st, 1867, transmitting copies of his catalogue of 

 books. 



Fred'k. Fraley, Phila., March 20th, 1867, regarding the funeral expenses of 

 Prof. Dallas Bache. 



American Bureau of Mines, New York, April 18th, 1867, regarding cost of 

 Proceeding. 



James Hall, Albany, April 27th, 1867, in reference to a donation to the 

 library. 



Chas. Murray, January 26th, 1867, transmitting donation to Library. 



Alexander Winchell, Ann Arbor, June 28lh, 1867; 



Eugene Gaussoin. Baltimore, July 19th, 1867 ; 



F. F. Cavada, Trinidad, July 31st, 1867 ; 




246 DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



J. Gwynn Jeffreys, London, August 31st, ISST ; 



Henry Pleasants', Pottsville, Sept. 6th, 1867 ; 



S. Wylie Crawford, Louisville, Ky., Sept. 22d, 1867; 



M. Henri Drouet, Dijon, Sept. 13th, 1867; 



R. E. C Stearns, San Francisco, Cal., Sept. 30th, 1867 ; 



M. Souvcrbie, Bordeaux, Sept. 13th, 1867 ; 



M. A. Moretel, Dijon, Sept. 7th, 1867 ; 



A. Baudon, Mony, Sept. 6th, 1867 ; 



M. Cailliaud, Nantes, October 13th, 1867 ; 



Henry Adams, London, Oct 3d, 1867 ; 



C. C. Gray, M. D., U. S. A., Fort Stevens, Oct. 20th, 1867 ; 



M. Crosse, Paris, Nov. 8th, 1867 ; 



Chas. Stodder, Boston, Dec. 14th, 1867; 



Dr. P. Fischer, Paris, severally acknowledging their elections as correspon- 

 dents of the Academy. 



Mrs. Willard Parker, New York, Jan. 8th and 14th, 1867 ; 



A. H Smith, M. D., U. S. A., New York, May 10th, 1867 ; 



C. W. Zaremba, St. Josephs, May 7th, 1867 ; 



John C. Spear, M. D., Washington, D. C, May 3Cth, 1866 ; 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C, May 29th, 1867; 



Thos. Clarkson, Sagua la Grande, Cuba, Aug. 26th, 1867 ; 



Samuel Powel, Newport, R. I., July 3d, 1867, severally transmitting dona- 

 tions to the Museum. 



A. S. Packard, Salem, Mass., Dec. 20th, 1866, requesting contributions to 

 American Naturalist. 



John K. Ralston, Norristown, Pa., June 5th, 1867, relative to election of 

 Rev. L Grier Ralston. 



A. M. Edwards, New York, July 18th, 1867, requesting names of members 

 desirous of co-operation with the writer in studying Diatomaceae and Desmi- 

 diaceae. 



W. H. Seat, July 24th, 1867, regarding donations to Soule University. 



M. Seriziat, Strasbourg, requesting orders for impressions of Lepidopterous 

 Insects. 



John W. Glass, Cincinnatti, Ohio, Sept. 1st, 1867, offering for sale specimens 

 of natural history in his possession. 



W. H. Dall, Fort Michaels, Aug. 11th, 1867, giving account of operations of 

 Scientific Corps for past year. 



Royal Society of London, Sept. 29th, 1867, announcing the death of Prof. 

 Michael Farraday. 



DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 

 1867. 



Abbott, Miss Anna. Sept. 5th. One fine specimen of Venus interpurpurea, 

 Conrad, from Florida. Through the Conchological Section. 



Aldrich, F. H. March I2th. Twenty-eight species of Land and Fresh Water 

 Shells, collected in the vicinity of Troy, N. Y. Through the Concholog- 

 ical Section. 



Allen, Dr. H. See Cassin. 



Ashhurst, Dr. S. July 23d. An alcoholic specimen of the Ribbon Fish (Tri- 

 chiurus lepturus), from Egg Harbor, N. J. 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 247 



Ashhurst, Francis, M. D. Aug. 6th. A collection of Saurian, Chelonian and 

 Fish Bones, and some fine specimens of Teeth of Botlosaurus, from the 

 Green Sand of Femberton, N. J. Dec. 3d. A collection of remains of 

 Fishes and Reptiles, from same locality. 



Beadle, Rev. E. R. March 1th. Navea Newcombii, Tryon ; perforating Halio- 

 tis, from Lower California. Sept. 5th. Three species of Cuban Shells, 

 and two specimens of Pinna squamosa. Lam. From the Mediterranean 

 Sea. Dec. 5th. Mactra lateralis. Say ; Voluta Turneri ; a large collection 

 of Solens and Mactrse, &c.; also five species of Terrestrial Shells, from 

 Syria and Java. Through the Conchological Section. Feb. I2lh. Twenty 

 specimens of Minerals, principallj' very fine specimens of Gypsum, from 

 Iowa and Michigan. Oct. 22 d. A large mass of Fossil Foraminifera, from 

 Syria ; Skin of a large Serpent, from South Africa. Dec. 3d. Female of 

 Termes fatalis, from Ceylon. 



Bennett, And. J. Dec. 5th. Twenty-three species of Unionidae, from the Sciota 

 River. Through the Conchological Section. 



Biddle, Owen. Aug. \3th. Specimen of a common Bat. 



Bland, Thos. June 6th. Helix uvulifera, H. cereolus, H. Posteiliana. Through 

 the Conchological Section. 



Blythe, Miss Helen. Sept. 2^th. Section of wood, cut by the beaver, from 

 Lake Superior. 



Boyer, W. H. Oct. I5th. Epidote, Micaceous Iron and a fine specimen of Native 

 Silver, from Michigan ; Quartz with Feldspar Crystal, Native Copper, 

 and specimen of JIagnetic Oxide of Iron, Michigan. 



Brot, Aug. Oct. 3d. One hundred and forty species, numerous specimens of 

 Land and Fresh Water Shells. Through the Conchological Section. 



Butcher, Henry B., M. D. (U. S. Army.) Aug. 20th. Si.xty-seven specimens 

 Birds and two specimens Quadrupeds, from Laredo, Texas. 



Carson, J. W. Dec. 10th. Large mass of Silicified Wood, from South Park, 

 Colorado. Presented by Messrs. Carson and Stevens. 



Cassin, John. June 6th. Purpura patula. Through the Conchological Sec- 

 tion. Avg. 20th. Sciurus rubricaudatus, Aud. and Bach. ; Audubon's 

 type. Oct. 22d. A small collection of Marine Animals, from Atlantic 

 City. Presented by Messrs. Cassin, Allen and Howell. Dec. 3d. Two 

 Euphyllia pavonina, West Africa. 



Cavada, Col. F. F. March \2th. Five species of Cuban Land Shells. April 

 4th. Twenty-six species, numerous specimens of Cuban Land and Fresh 

 Water Shells. Through the Conchological Section. 



Clarkson, Capt. Thomas. Oct. 8th. Specimens of American Flamingo, Phoe- 

 nicopterus ruber, from South America. 



Collection of Crustacea, Echinodern, and Corals, from St. Bartholomew, W. I. 

 April 9th. In exchange. 



Conrad, T. A. April 9th. Fossil Tooth of a Crocodile, from Barnsboro', N. J. 

 July I6th. Collections of Fossils of the Hamilton Group, N. Y. Aug. 6th. 

 A large Septaria, from Mt. Morris, N. J. 



Cope, E D. Sept. 5th. A collection of Unios and other Fresh Water and 

 Land Shells, from White Sulphur Springs, Giles Co., Va. A'ov. 1th. Spe- 

 cimens of Anculosa subglobosa. Say, and Mclania simplex ; eight species 

 of Unio and Margaritana, from Holston Riv., Va. Through the Con- 

 chological Section. Jan. I5th. A collection of Fresh Water Fishes. 

 Jan. 22d. Thirty-four jars of Reptiles. Feb. I9th. A collection of forty 

 specimens of twenty-one species of Marine Fishes, from St. Kitts Island, 

 West Indies. Dec. lOth. Nine species, twenty specimens of Reptiles, from 

 near the city of Guatemala : five species, fifteen specimens of Fislies, from 

 near the city of Guatemala; thirty-three species, fifty-six specimens of 

 Reptiles, from Bahia, Brazil; an Armadillo, from Bahia; a Jaguar Skull, 

 from Brazil ; and a Bear Skull, from .Monterey, Cal. Nuv. 6th Remains 

 of an extinct whale, Eschrichtius cephalus, of a Basilosaurus, B. atlanticus, 

 and of a Squalodon mento, from the miocene of Charles County, iMd. ; a 




2i8 DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



collection of Indian Relics, from Charles Co., Md. ; ten species TJnionidse, 

 one Anculosa, and one Goniobasis, from Holston R., Va. Nov. \2th. A 

 collection of Palatine Teeth of Aetobatis arcueatus, Ag. ; A. profundes, 

 Cope; Myliobatis gigas, Cope; M. vicomicanus, Cope, Charles Co. Md. ; 

 and M. pachyodon. 



Cox, Dr. J. C. June 6th. One hundred and twenty-two species, numerous 

 specimens of Polynesian Shells. Through the Conchological Section. 



Currier, 0. C. Feb. 1th. Anodonta subcarinata. Currier ; Physa deformis, 

 Currier; Melantho gibba, Currier; Bulimus Tryoni, Currier, types of new 

 species. Mai/ 1th. Thirty-nine species Shells, from Grand Rapids, Mich. 

 May 2d. Thirty-nine species, numerous specimens, from Grand Kapids, 

 Mich. Through the Conchological Section. 



Deal, Dr. L. H., Sept. llth. Large Hair Ball, from the stomach of a calf. 



Dick, F. Jan. 22d. An Indian Stone Axe, from Billingsport, N. J. 



Durham, Geo. J. Sept. lOth Skin of a Spermophilus Buckleyi, Slack, from 

 Austin, Texas. Aug. 20th. Head of Mycteria Americana, from near Aus- 

 tin, Texas ; first ever obtained in the United States. 



Ely, Capt. R. B. Jan. 1st, Bothrops lanceolatus and a large Locust, from 

 Michigan. 



Eshleman, J. B. Feb. 1th. Melanio altilis, Lea. Through the Conchological 

 Section. 



Ennis, Jacob. Dec. 5th. Vivipara lineata, Val., from St. John's River, Flori- 

 da. Through the Conchological Section. 



Ford, John. Sept. 5th. Beautiful suites of specimens of Unio nasuta, U. com- 

 planatus, U. heterodon, U. ochraceus, Margaritaua nndulata, Anodonta 

 undulata, and Sphterium transversum, from Twenty-seventh Ward, Phila- 

 delphia. Through the Conchological Section. 



Gabb, W. M. April 4th. Fourteen species of Fresh Water Shells, from Cali- 

 fornia. May 1th. A species of Limnea, and Helix Hornii, Gabb. Through 

 the Conchological Section. 



Glatfelder, Dr. Noah M. Jan. 1st. Slab of Stone with Crystals of Selenite, 

 a small collection of Fossils, and another of recent Plants, from Dakota. 



Graut, Aldeu. Jan. 15th. Five species of Birds, and one Mammal, from Natal 

 Africa. 



Grey Prof. Asa. Dec. 10th. A collection of Plants of Australia. 



Haldeman, S. S. Mai/ 1th. Type specimens of the Genus Limnea. June Gth. 

 Type specimens of Planorbis and Physa. Through the Conchological 

 Section. 



Hall E. Miy 1th. One hundred and four species of American Terrestrial and 

 Fluviatile Shells. Through the Conchological Section. 



Hall, Geo. W., M.D. Fossil Tooth of a Tapir, from Illinois. 



Hanlv, Sylv. Feb. 12th. One hundred and eighty-four species of Marine 

 Shells, from Italy. Through the Conchological Section. 



Hays, Dr. I. March 2Qth. Tooth of a Charcharodon in the matrix, from 

 Japan. 



Harrod Joseph. Nov. 19th. Sheath of a Palm, Isthmus of Panama ; Lichen 

 from the Sequoia, and Fruit of the same, Calaveras Co., Cal. ; Ivory Nut, 

 Costa Rica ; Sponge, from Nassau, B. I. ; Geyserite, from the Geyser of 

 California. 



Hartman, Dr. Wm. D. May 2d. Three species of Shells. Through the Con- 

 chological Section. 



Heister Mrs. Caroline A. Feb. 19th. A collection of European Plants of the 

 late Dr. John P. Heister, of Reading. 



Homan, E. Sept. 3d. A Sting Ray, from Atlantic City. 



Hoopes, B. A. Oct. 22d. Boulder of Native Copper, from Vulcan Mine, Lake 

 Superior. 



Horn Dr. Geo. H. May 1th. Five species of Shells, from Texas. Through 

 the Conchological Section. 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 249 



Houston, E. J. April Ith. Large specimen of Cyanite. from Leiperville, Del. 

 Co. 



Hubbard, Dr. E. W. Jan. 8th. Helix Jacksonii, Bland, from Fort Gibson, 

 Indian Territory. Through the Conchological Section. 



Hubbard, V. B., M. D. Sept. \Oth. Milvulus forficatus, male and female, fine 

 specimens, from the country of the Cherokee Nation. 



Howell, Dr. S. B. Jan. 1st. Vertebra of a Whale. 



Julius, J. L. Oct. 3d. One specimen of Cassis, from Trinidad. Through the 

 Conchological Section. 



Kline, A. C. Xov. V2th. A Red Coral. 



Krider, John. Jan. 8th. Six species of American Land Shells. Through the 

 Conchological Section. 



Lathrop, G. A. Jan. 8th. Eighty-four species of Shells, from Saginaw River, 

 Mich., and its vicinity. Through the Conchological Section. 



Lea, Isaac. April ith. Septifer Trautwiniana, type; Columna Hainesii, Helix 

 Peliomphila, from Japan, &c. Through the Conchological Section. Jan. 

 8th. Specimen of Kaolin, from near Kennett's Square, Chester Co., Pa. 

 April \6th Lesleyite with Pattersonite, and Pattersonite, Chester Co., 

 Pa. Kov. 5th. Vermiculite, Lenni, Del. Co. ; Muronite, near West Ches- 

 ter. Dec. 3d. Large specimen of Raphylite, Del. Co. 



Le Conte, J. L. Jan. Igt. Teeth of Ptychodus ; Lamna, Galeocerdo, and other 

 Teeth and Bones of Fishes, from the cretaceous formation of Western Kan- 

 sas — near Big Creek and Bunker Hill, 50 and 35 miles North-west of Fort 

 Ellsworth; Crystals of Selenite, near Big Creek, Fossil Creek; Crystals of 

 Barytes from Geodes, near Pond Creek, Kansas; collection of Dicoty- 

 ledonous leaves, from the cretaceous formation, near Fort Ellsworth ; 

 Rocks and Fossil Shells, from along Smoky Hill Fork ; Lignite, from cre- 

 taceous beds of Kansas. Nov. I9th. A collection of Remains of Fishes, 

 from the cretaceous of Smoky Hill River, and chiefly from Fort Wallace : 

 Fossil Shark Teeth, from near Fort Lyon. Dec. 3d. Fossil Remains of 

 Fishes, from near Fort Wallace, Kansas ; a small collection of Fossil 

 Shells, from Kansas and New Mexico ; a specimen of Turquoise, from 

 Cerrites, near Santa Fe Dec. lOth. A collection of Fossil Shells, from 

 Kansas and New Mexico. 



Leeds, A. R. Nov. 5th. Mica, Buncombe Co., N. C. • 



Leidy, Dr. Jos. Mai/ 2d. One species of Spherium. Sept. 5th. Eleven spe- 

 cies of land and fresh-water Shells from Western Virginia. Through the 

 Conchological Section. Auff. 13th. Specimen of Pumiscaria glomeratus. 

 Atlantic City. 



Lewis, E. J., M.D. Oct. 8th. Land Tortoise, marked with date of 1829. Dec. 

 5th. Four species of Amnicola from Mohawk. Through the Conchologi- 

 cal Section. 



Lincecum, Dr. Gideon, of Texas. April 9th. Thirty-six jars, vials, and boxes, 

 containing a Collection of Zoological specimens. Fourteen bottles, con- 

 taining a collection of Reptiles, Spiders, &c. From Long Point, Texas. 

 Dec. 3d. Specimen of White Clay, from Texas. 



Mactier, Wm. L. Atiff. 6th. A collection of six specimens of native Copper, with 

 Malachite and Calcite, from Lake Superior, and a specimen of Peat from 

 Ireland. 



Matthews, C. W. Dec. 3d. Tooth of Carcharodon. From Linnes Co., Miss. 



McClenahan, John. Jan. \st. Sandstone concretion, assuming the form of a 

 snake's head, from North Carolina. 



Meehan, T. Dec. 11 th. Liatris intermedia. 



Morch, Dr. Otto A. L. May 1th. One hundred and six species, numerous spe- 

 cimens of Shells from the Canary Islands, Greenland, Arabia and Chili. 

 Through the Conchological Section. 



McCoy, Dr. G. R. Sept. XQlh. Specimen of Amblyopsis and an Astacus, from 

 Mammoth Cave, Kent. 



Miles, Prof. M. Jan. Vld. A collection of Reptiles. 




250 DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Newcomb, W. Sept. bth. Six species, fifteen specimens of Shells. Through 

 the Conchological Section. 



Parker, C. F. Feb. Vlth. Eight species of Shells new to the Collection. 

 M'lrch Vlth. Pirenella turritella, Brug. From New Zealand. May 1th. 

 Three species and eleven sections of Shells. N'ov. 1th. Two species of 

 Shells, Amphidesma and Thracia. Dec. 5th. One species of Ranella and 

 one of Pleurotoma, from Panama. Through the Conchological Section. 



Pease, W. H. April 4th. Types of nine new species. Nov. 1th. Types of fifty- 

 five species of Polynesian Shells described by him. Through the Concho- 

 logical Section. 



Peck, S. F. Sept. 24th. Antique Hammer of Native Copper, from the Bohe- 

 mian Mine, Greenland, Michigan, and a fragment of Copper anciently 

 mined, found with the former. 



Powel, S. Jan. \5th. A Sponge and Sertularian from Newport, R. I. July 

 \6th. A Porpoise, Phoceana brachicium. 



Rafinesque type collection of Unios from the collection of the late C. A. 

 Poulson. Types of Rafinesque's species, with the original labels in his 

 handwriting. Purchased and presented through the Concholagical Sec- 

 tion. 



Randall, F. A. Jan. 8th. Three species Unio, from the Alleghany River. 

 Sept. 5th. Ten species, numerous specimens of fresh-water Shells from 

 Alleghany River. Through the Conchological Section. 



Redfield, J. H. Nov. 1th. Four species of Marginella. Through the Concho- 

 logical Section. 



Resolute Mining Co. Oct. 22d. Crystallized Native Copper and Calcite from 

 the Resolute Mine, Lake Superior. 



Roberts, S. R. Feb. 12th. Four species Cypraea, new to the Collection. One 

 specimen C. zigzag. May 1th. Anodouta papyracea (Anth ), Tennessee. 

 Through the Conchological Section. 



Ruschenberger, Dr. W. S. W. Jan. 1st. Fourteen Moonstones, from Ceylon. 



Scarborough, Geo. April 4th. Two species of Shells. Through the Concho- 

 logical Section. 



Sellers, G. E. Oct. 22d. A collection of Fossils, from the vicinity of Cincin- 

 nati. 



Sergeant, J. D. Dec. llth. One specimen Mallotus, Middle Atlantic Ocean. 



Shippen, Dr. Nov. I9ih. A bent slab of Marble. 



Slack, Dr. J. H. Jan. 1st. Specimens of Hesperomys Michiganensis, Sciurus 

 Hudsonius, and Tamias quadrivittatus : also specimens of Esox. Nov. 19th. 

 Pteropus Edwardsii. 



Shaw, Joseph E. Sept. 3d. A specimen of brown Bat (Scotophilus fuscus). 



Sheafer, P. W. 3farch 26th. Specimens of black band Iron Ore, from Mill 

 Creek Shaft, near Pottsville, Penna., with impressions of Sigillaria. 



Showalter, E. R. April 4th. One hundred and fifty-six species, 3900 speci- 

 mens of Unionidae and Melania, chiefly from Alabama. Through the Con- 

 chological Section. 



Smith, C. E. Sept. 10th. Tufacious Moss, from Niagara. 



Smith, George, M.D. Oct. 8th. Specimen of the Osprey, or fish-hawk, Pan- 

 dion carolinensis, from Haverford, Delaware Co., Pa. 



Smithsonian Institution. Sept. Mth. Anser Rossii, Lestris Buffoni, 2 Soma- 

 teria;, V. nigra, and 187 skins of Birds, principally from Sitka, Alaska Ter- 

 tory, and the Hudson Bay Co. Territories. 



Stearns, R. E. C. Sept. 5th. ' Seven species, numerous specimens, from Cali- 

 fornia. Through the Conchological Section. 



Stevens, W. H. See Carson Dec. 10th. 



Swift, Robt. Jan. 8th. Skulls of the Capybara, Two-toed Sloth. Fox, Cat, 

 Squirrel, and six Apes; three dilated hyoids of the Howling Monkey; 12 

 Star-fishes ; Echini, Spatangi ; 8 species and a Sea Fan. From St. Tho- 

 mas, W. I., and South America. Nov. 12th. Thecadactylus rassicauda. 

 St. Thomas, W. I. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 251 



Taggart, W. Sept. IKh. Embryo of the Black Snake. 



Thompson, J. H. leb. Vlth. Heli.x Stuartice, Sowb., from the Philippines. 

 April 4th. Type of Jlontacuta Gouldii. Through the Conchological Sec- 

 tion. 



Thomson, J. R. Oct. 8th. A small collection of Crustacea ; an Oestrus Larva 

 from the back of a Cow. 



Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. Feb. 12th. Six specimens of Shells, exhibiting internal struc- 

 ture ; Magilis antiquus from the Red t^ea ; flelix Parkeri, from Central 

 America, &c. March \2th. Ninety-five species of Shells selected from the 

 Poulson Collection; also about 200 duplicate species from the same Col- 

 lection. April Ath. Four specimens of Cephalopods in spirits. Sept. bth. 

 Forty-eight species, numerous specimens of Australian Shells, together 

 with a collection of Cephalopods and other naked MoUusks in spirits. 

 Through the Conchological Section. 



Valdespino, Jno. M. Oct. 8th. Native Blanket of the Bark of the Damaqua 

 Tree of Brazil. 



Vaux, \V. S. Sept. bth. Bulimus from Peru. Through the Conchological 

 Section. Feb. 12th. Very fine specimen of Satin Spar, from Alston 

 Moor, Cumberland, England. March V2th. Breccia with Remains of Rein- 

 deer, Horse and worked Flints. From Dordogne, France. A Limulus 

 and Eryon arctiformis, in lithographic slate. Solenhofen, Bavaria. Nov. 

 12th. Fluor Spar with Spathic Iron. Cumberland, England. Dec. lOtk. 

 Fifteen species, 33 specimens Reptiles from near City of liuatemala. Skin 

 of Galictis vitata, and a rodent Skull, Brazil ; young King Vulture of Mex- 

 ico. Dec. 11th. One specimen of Octopus, from Pacific coast, Guate- 

 mala. 



Willis, J. R. Feb. 12th. Twenty species of Marine Shells from Nova Scotia. 

 Tiirough the Conchological Section. 



Wilstach, W. P. Aug. 6th. Ninety-one species of Shells, from Australia, S. 

 America, Palestine, etc. Through the Conchological Section. 



Wood, Dr. H. C, Jr. March 12th. Four species of land Shells, from Texas. 

 Through the Conchological Section. 



Zaremba, Dr. Wm. Aug. 20ih. Collection of Nests and Eggs of Birds of 15 

 species, from St. Josephs, Michigan. 



DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



1867. 



JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



SWEDEN. 



Upsalise. Nova Acta Regiae Societatis Scientiarum Upsaliensis. Seriei Tertiae. 

 Vol. VI., Fasc. Prior, 1866. From the Society. 



DENMARK. 



Kjobenhavn. Oversigt over det Kongelige danske Videnskabernes Selskaba 

 Forhandlingar og dels .Medlemmers Arbeider i Aaret 1866-67, Nos. 2 — 6 ; 

 also 1867, Nos. 1—4. Volume for 1864. 1864-66. From the Society. 

 Videnskabelige .Meddelelserfra den Naturhistoriske Forening i Kjobenhavn 

 for Aaret 1865. Udgivne af selskabets Bestyrelse, 1866. From the 

 Society. 




252 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



NORWAY. 

 Christiania. Det Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitets, Aarsberetning for 

 Aaret 1864—65. From the University. 

 Forhandlinger i Videnskabs-selskabet i Christiania, Aars 1846 — 1865. 

 From the Society. 



RUSSIA. 

 Moscow. Bulletin de la Society Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou. Annee 



1865, No. 3; 1866, Nos. 2, 3 and 4. From the Society. 



Riga. Arbeiten des Naturforscher-Vereins zu Riga. Neue folge. les Heft. 



From the Society. 

 Correspondenzblatt des Naturforschenden Vereins zu Riga. 15er Jahrg. 



From the Society. 

 St. Petersburg. Horae Societatis Entomologicse Rossicas variis sermonibus in 



Rossia usitatis edits. Tome III., Nos. 1 — 4. Tome IV., Nos. 1 — 4. 



1865-66. From the Society. 

 Bulletin de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences. Tomes X. and XI. From 



the Society. 

 Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences. VII. Serie. Tome X., 



Nos. 1 to 16. Tome XL, Nos. 1 — 8. 1867. From the Society. 



HOLLAND. 



Amsterdam. Verslagen en Mededeelingen der k. Akademie van Wetenschap- 

 pen, Afdeeliug Naturkunde Tweede Reeks Eerste und Negende Deel, 



1866. From the Society. 



Processen-Verbaal van de Gewone Vergaderingen der Koninklijke Akade- 

 mie van Wetenschappen, 1867. From the Society. 

 Jaarboek van de k. Akademie van Wetenschappen voor 1865. From the 

 Society. 



Haarlem. Archives Neerlandaises des Sciences Exactes et Naturelles publiees 

 par la Soci^te Hollandaise des Sciences a Haarlem. Tome I., Livres 3 

 and 4; Tome II., Livres 1 and 2. From the Society. 

 Naturkuudige Verhandelingen van de Hollandsche Maatschappij der We- 

 tenschappen te Haarlem. Tweede Verzameling. 24er Deel, 1866. From 

 the Society. 



Hague. Archives Neerlandaises des Sciences Exactes et Naturelles publiees 

 par la Soci6t6 Hollandaise des Sciences a Haarlem. La Haye, 1866. 

 Tome L, ler and 2er Livr., 1866. From the Society. 



Rotterdam. Nieuwe Verhandelingen van het Bataafsch Genootschap der 

 Proefondervindelijke Wissbegeertete Rotterdam. Twaalfde Deel. 2 and 3 

 Stuk, 1865. From the Society. 



Utrecht. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Jaarboek voor 1866, uitgegeven door 

 het Koninklijk Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut. Eerste und 

 Tweede Deel, 1866-67. From the Institute. 



GERMANY. 



Altenburg. Mittheilungen aus dem Osterlande,herausgegeben von der Natur- 

 forschenden Gesellschaft zu Altenburg. 17er Band, 3es and 4es Heft, 

 1866. From the Society. 

 Berlin. Zeitschrift der Deutschen geologischen Gesellschaft. 18 Band, 2, 3 

 and 4 Heft, 1866 ; 19 Band, 1 Heft, 1867. From the Society. 

 Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, herausgegeben von Dr. F. H. Troschel. 3 ler 

 Jahrg, 5es Heft ; 32er Jahrg, 2—5 Heft, 33er Jahrg, les Heft., 1865 

 — 1867. From the Editor. 

 Monatsbericht der k. Preussischen Akademie der Wissenschaften. From 



Aug., 1866, to July, 1867. From the Society. 

 Berliner Entomologische Zeitschrift. Herausgegeben von dem Entomolo- 

 gischen Vereine in Berlin. Zehnter Jahrg., 1866, 4es Vierteljahrsheft, 

 and Her Jahrg., les and 2es Vierteljahrsheft. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 253 



Mathematische und Physikalische Abhandlungen der k. Akademie der 



Wissenschaften zu Berlin. Aus dem Jahre, 1865. PVom the Society. 

 Wochenschrift des Vereiaes zuv Beforderung des Gartenbaucs in den K. P. 



Staaten fiir Giirtnerei und Pflanzenkunde. Nos. 1 to 52, for 1866; and 



Nos. 1 to 26, for 1867. From the Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir die gesammten Naturwissenschaften. Herausgegeben von 



dem Naturw. Vereine fiir Sachseu und Thuringen in Halle. Jahrgang 



1866, 26, 27, 28 Band. From the Society. 

 Bonn. Verhandlungen des Naturhistorischen Vereines der preussischen 



Rheinlande und Westphaleus. 23er Jahrg., les and 2es Heft. Bonn, 



1866. With a geological map of the Prussian Rheinlands. From the 



Society. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologie, Zeitschrift fiir Naturgeschichte und 



Urgeschichte des Menschen. Erster Band, 2es Heft, und Zweiter Band, 



les, 2es und 3es Heft, 1867. From the Subscribers to the Library 



Fund. 

 Bericht liber die XIV. Versammlung der Deutschen Ornithologen-Gesell- 



schaft im Waldkater zu Halberstadt und Braunschweig. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Bremen. Abhandlungen der Naturwissenschaftlichen Vereine zu Bremen. 1 



Band, 1 und 2 Heftes. From the Society. 

 Jahres-Bericht des Schwedischen Heil-Gymnastischen Instituts in Bremen, 



1866. From the Institute. 

 Briinn. Verhandlungen des Naturforschenden Vereines in Briinn. IV. Band, 



1865, 1866. From the Society. 

 Cassel. Malakozoologische Blatter. 13 Band, p. 145, to 14 Band, p. 144. From 



the Library Fund. 

 Journal fiir Ornithologie. Herausgegeben von Dr. Jean Cabanis und Dr. 



Ed. Baldamus. From Heft. III., 14 Jahrg., to Heft. IV., 15 Jahrg. From 



the Wilson Fund. 

 Danzig. Schriften der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Danzig. Neue Folge. 



les Band, 3 und 4 Heft, 1866. From the Society. 

 Dresden. Sitzungsberichte der Naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft Isis zu 



Dresden. Jahrg. 1866, Nos. 1 — 12. From the Society. 

 Novorum Actorum Academiae CsesarcEe Leopoldino-Carolinpe Germanicse 



Naturpe Curiosorum. Tome 24, 1867. From the Society. 

 Emden. Einundfunfzig und Zweiundfiinfzigster Jahresbericht der Natur- 

 forschenden Gesellschaft in Emden, 1865. Von Hermann Meier, 1866. 



From the Society. 

 Festschrift der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft, for 1864. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Fraukfurt-am-main. Der Zoologische Garten, VII. Jahrg. 1866, Nos. 7 — 12, 



and VIII. Jahrg., 1867, Nos. 1—6. From the Editor. 

 Jahresberichte iiber die Verwaltung des Medicinalwesens die Krankenan- 



stalten. VII. Jahrg., 1863— 1867. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen herausgegeben von der Senckenbergischen Naturforschen- 

 den Gesellschaft. 6es Band, 1 und 2es Heft., 1866. From the Society. 

 Freiburg. Berichte uber die Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft 



zu Freiburg I. B. 1867. From the Society. 

 Giessen. Zwijlfter Bericht der Oberhessischen Gesellschaft fur Natur-und 



Heilkunde, 1867. From the Society. 

 Gotha. Mittheilungen aus Justus Perthes Geographischer Anstalt, von Dr. A. 



Petermann. 1866, No. IX. to 1867, No. X. Ergiinzungsheft, Nos. 



19 — 21. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Gottingen. Nachrichten von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und der 



Georg-Augusts-Universitiit aus dem Jahre 1866. From the Society. 

 Halle. Abhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft zu Halle. 9er Band, 



2es Heft ; und lOer Band, les und 2es Heft. From the Society. 




254 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Hamburg. Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete der Naturwissenchaften lierausge- 

 geben von dem Natuiwissenschaftlichen Verein iu Hamburg. IV. Band, 

 4 Abth. ; V. Band, 1 Abth., 1866. From the Society. 

 Leipzig. Schriftea der Gesellschaft zur Befoerderung der gesammten Natur- 

 wissenschaften zu Marburg. Supplement Heft. Marburg, 1866. From 

 the Society. 

 Zeitschrift f'iir Wissenschaftliche Zoologie. Heraiisgegeben von Carl T. 

 V. Siebold und Albert Kolliker. 16er Band, 4es Heft ; 17er Baud, les — 

 4es Heft. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Archiv fiir Anatomie Physiologie und wissenschaftliche Medecin. Jahrg. 

 1866 Heft 4, to 1867 Heft 4. From the Subscribers to the Library Fund. 

 Jenaische Zeitschrift fiir Medecin und Naturwissenschaft herausgegeben 

 von der Medecinisch-Naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft zu Jena. 3er 

 Band, les, 2es und 3es Heft, 1867. From the Society. 

 Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der k. S. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften 

 zu Leipzig; Mathem. Physische Classe, 1865; 1866, I., IL und IIL 

 From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen der Mathematisch-physischen Classe der k. Sachsischen 

 Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. VIIL Band,Nos. 2 and 3, 1866. From 

 the Society. 

 Preisschriften gekront und herausgegeben von der fiirstlich Jablonowski- 

 schen Gessellschaft zu Leipzig. XIIL, 1867. From the Society. 

 LUneburg. Jahreshefte des Naturwissenschaftlichen Vereins fiir das Fiirsten- 



thum Liineburg. L — X., 1865, and IL, 1866. From the Society. 

 Mannheim. Zweiunddreissigster Jabresbericht des Mannheimer Vereins fiir 



Naturkunde, 1866. From the Society. 

 Miinchen. Sitzungsberichte der K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Miin- 

 chen. 1865, II. , and 1866, I. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen der Philosophisch-Philol. Classe der K. B. Akademie der 

 Wissenschaften. lOer Band, 3e Abth. Elfter Band, le Abth. His- 

 torischen Classe. lOer Band, 2e Abth. 1866. From the Society. 

 Neubrandenburg. Archiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in 



Mecklenburg. 20 Jahrg., 1866. From the Editors. 

 Oflfenbach-am-Main. Siebenter Bericht des Offenbacher Vereins fiir Natur- 

 kunde iiber seine Thiitigkeit vom 14 Mai 1865, bis zum 31 Mai 1866. 

 From the Society. 

 Prag. Sitzungsberichte der K. B. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften in Prag. 

 Jahrgang. 1865 und 1866. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen der K. B. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. 5e Folge, 4er 

 Band. 1866. 

 Regensburg. Flora oder allgemeine botanische Zeitung herausgegeben von 

 der K. Bayer, botanischen Gesellschaft. Neue Reihe. 24 Jahrg., 1866. 

 From the Society. 

 Correspondenz-Blatt des zoologischen Mineralogischen Vereines in Re- 

 gensburg. Zwanzigster Jahrgang, 1866. From the Society. 

 St. Polten. Drittes Programm der No. Landes-Ober-Realschule in St. Polten, 

 1866. From the Society. 

 Jabresbericht Turnvereins in St. Polten fiir das dritte Vereinsjahr 1865-6 

 — 1866. From the Society. 

 Stuttgart. Wiirttembergische Naturwissenschaftliche Jahreshefte. 21 und 22 

 Jahrgang; 23 Jahrg., les Heft. From the Society. 

 Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologic und Palaeontologie. Jahrg. 

 1865, 7es Heft, to 1867, 5es Heft. From the Editor. 

 Vienna. Jahrbuch der K. K. geologischen Reichsanstalt. Jahrg. 1866, XVI. 

 Band, Nos. 3 and 4 ; 1867, No. 1. From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mathematisch- 

 Katurwissenschaftliche Classe. From 1861 to 1867. ZweiteAbtheilung, 

 9 Heft. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 255 



Denksehriften der kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mathema- 

 tisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Classe. 25er Band, 1866. From the So- 

 ciety. 



Verhandlungen der K. K. zoologisch-botanisohen Gesellschaft in Wien. 

 Jalirgang 1866, XVI. Band. From the Society. 

 Wiirzburg. Wiirzburger Naturwissenschaftliche Zeitschrift, herausgegeben von 

 der Physikalisch-medecinischen Gesellschaft. 6er Band, III. Heft, 1866. 

 From the Society. 



SWITZERLAND. 



Basel. Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Basel. 4er Theil, 



3es Heft, 1866. From the Society. 

 Geneva Bibliotheque Universelle et Revue Suisse. Archives des Sciences 



Physiques et Naturelles. Nouvelle Periode. Nos. 106 to 118. From 



the Editors. 

 Bulletin de la Soci^t^ Ornithologique Suisse. Tome ler, 2e Partie, 1866. 



From the Society. 

 Memoires de la Society, de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle. Tome XVIII., 



2e Partie, and Tome XIX., ler Partie. 1867. From the Society. 

 Lausanne. Bulletin dela Soci^te Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Vol. IX., 



Nos. 55 and 56. From the Society. 

 Neuchatel. Bulletin de la Soci^te des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel. Tome 



VII., 2me Cahier. 1866. From the Society. 

 St. Gallen. Bericht iiber die ThiUigkeit der St. Gallischen, Naturwissenschaft- 



lichen Gesellschaft vriihrend des Vereinsjahre 1864-66. 2 Vols. St. 



Gallen, 1866-67. From the Society. 

 Zurich. Vierteljahrsschrift der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. 9,10 undller 



Jahrg., 1864—1866. From the Society. 



FRANCE. 



Angers. Memoires de la Societe Academique de Maine et Loire. 27th and 



28th Vols., 1865. From the Society 

 Memoires de laSocidt^ Imp^riale d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts d'Angers. 



Nouvelle Periode. Tome 9me, Ime et 2me Partie; Tome lOme, 2me 



Trimest. From the Society. 

 Bordeaux. Actes de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres etArts 



de Bordeaux. 3e Serie, 27e Annee, 4me Trimest ; 28e Annee, 2e ,et 4e 



Trimest; 29e Annee, ler Trimest. From- the Society. 

 Actes de la Society Linneenne de Bordeaux. Tome 26, 3me Series ; Tome 



VI., ler Partie, 1867. From the Society. 

 Memoires de la Socidte des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles de Bordeaux. 



Tome IlL, 2me Cahier; Tome IV. et V., ler Cahier, 1866-67. From the 



Society. 

 Caen. Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres, 



1867. From the Society. 

 Bulletin de la Societe Linneenne de Normandie. 9me et lOme Vol. Annee 



1864-65. From the Society. 

 Dijon. Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres 



de Dijon. Annees 1864-65, 1865-66. From the Society. 

 Lyons. M6moires de I'Academie Impdriale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. 



Classe des Sciences. TomeSme et 4me. Nouvelle Serie. Tomes 1 — 4. 



1866-67. From the Society. 

 Annales des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles d'Agriculture et d'lndustrie, 



publiees par la Soci6te Imperiale d'Agriculture, etc. Troisieme Serie, 



Tomes IX. et X., 1865 et 1866. From the Society. 

 Montpellier. Academic des Sciences et Lettres de Montpellier, Memoires de la 



Section de Medecine. Tome IV., ler et 2er Fasc: Section des Sciences, 



Tome VI., ler Fasc, 1863-64. From the Society. 




256 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Mons. Bulletin des Stances de la Society des Sciences, des Arts et desLettres 



du Hainaut, 1864-65. From the Society. 

 Menioires and Publications of the same. II. Serie, Tome lOme ; III. Serie, 



Tome ler, 1866-67. From the Society. 

 Orleans. Memoires de la Societe d' Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres et 



Arts. Seconde Serie, Tome X.. Nos. 2 et 3. 1867. From the Society. 

 Paris. Annales de la Societe Entomologique de France. 4me Series, Tomes 



5 et 6. 1865-67. From the Society. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles. 5me Serie, Botanique. Tome V., Nos. 



5 et 6 ; Tome VI. et Tome VII., Nos. 1 et 2. Zoologie, Tome VI., Nos. 



3 — 6 ; Tome VII., Nos. 1—6. From the Library Fund. 

 Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et appliquee. Receuil Mensuel par M. 



F. E. Guerin-Meneville. From 1866, No. 11, to 1867, No. 1. Paris. From 



the Editor. 

 Magasin de Zoologie. Journal public par F. E. Guerin. Mollusca, 1830 



to 1844. Deposited by Geo. W. Trj-on, Jr. 

 Bulletin mensuel de la Society Imp^riale Zoologique d'Acclimatation. 3me 



Serie, from Tome III., No. 11, to Tome IV., No. 10. From the Society. 

 Archives Cosmologiques. Revue des Sciences Naturelles. Redigee par 



M, Alphonse Dubois. No. 1, 1867. From the Editor. 

 Annales des Mines. Sixierae Serie. Tome X., Ime to 6me Livr. ; Tome 



XL, Ime Livr. From the Minister of Public Works, France. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. 3e Serie. Tome VI., No. 3, to Tome VII., 



No. 4. From the Editor. 

 Magasin de Conchyliologie. F. E. Guerin. 1830. Deposited by Geo. W. 



Tryon, Jr. 

 Journal de I'Anatomie et de la Physiologic. Publiee par M. Chas. Robin. 



4me Annee, Nos. 1 to 6, 1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Strasbourg. Memoires de la Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Strasbourg. 



Tome 6me, Ire Livr., 1866. From the Society. 



BELGIUM. 



Bruxelles. Annuaire de I'Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres, et des 

 Beaux Arts de Belgique, 1866-67. From the Society. 

 Bulletin of the same. Tomes 34me and 35me, and 2me Serie, Tomes 22me 

 and 23me, 1866-67. Tables Generales, Tomes 1 — 20. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Memoires of the same. Tomes 35 and 36, 1867. From the Society. 

 Memoires Couronnes et Autres Memoires, publiee par I'Academie Royale 

 des Sciences, &c., 1866. From the Society. 

 Liege. M6moires de la Societe Royale des Sciences de Liege. Deuzieme Serie. 



Tome 1, 1866. From the Society. 

 Louvain. Annuaire de I'Universit^ Catholique, 1867. 3 Ime Annee. From 



the University. 

 Luxembourg. Societe des Sciences Naturelles du Grand Duche de Luxem- 

 bourg. Tome 9me, 1867. From the Society. 



ITALY. 



Catana. Relazione dei Lavari Scientifice trattati nell Anno XXXX. dell 

 Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali. Catania, 1867. From the So- 

 ciety. 



Milano. Reale Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere. Rendiconti. Classe 

 di Scienze Mathematiche e Naturali. Vols. I., II., III., and Vol. IV., 

 Fasc. 1, 1864—1867. From the Society. 

 Memoirie del Reale Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere. Vols. VII. , 

 VIII., IX. and X., 1859, 1862, 1864, 1866. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY, 257 



Atti della Fondazione Scientifica Cagnola dalla sua istituzione. Vols. I., 



II., III. and IV., 1856, 1866. From the Society. 

 Atti del Reale Istituto Lombardo di Scienze, Letters ed Arti. Vols. II. 

 and III., 1862-64. From the Society. 

 Napoli. Societa Reale di Napoli. Rendiconto dell Accademia delle Scienze 

 Fisiche e Mathematiche. Anno III., Fasc. 2 — 12 ; Anno IV., Fasc. 1 

 — 3, 1864-65. From the Society. 

 Palermo. Giornale di Scienze Naturali ed Economiche publicato per cura del 

 Consiglio di Perfezionamento annesso al R. Istituto-technico di Palermo. 

 Vol. I., Fasc. 3 and 4 ; Vol. II., Fasc. 1 and 2. From the i^oeiety. 

 Torino. Memorie della Reale Accademia della Scienze di Torino. Serie Sec- 

 onda, Tomo 22. 1865. From the Society. 

 Atti della R. Accademia della Scienze di Torino. Vol. I., Nos. 3 — T ; Vol. 

 II., Nos. 1 — 3. 1866-67. From the Society. 



GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 



Dublin. The Journal of the Royal Dublin Society. No. 35. 1866. From 



the Society. 

 The Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy. Vol. 24. Science, parts 



7 and 8. 1866-67. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy. Vol. 9, Part 4. 1867. From 



the Society. 

 Journal of the Royal Geological Society of Ireland. Vol. 1, Part 3. 1867. 



From the Society. 

 Edinburgh. Transactions of the Royal Society. Vol. 24, Part 2. 1865-66. 



From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society, session 1865-66. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Botanical Society. Vol. 8, Part 3. 1866. From the 



Society. 

 Glasgow. Transactions of the Geological Society. Vol. 2, Parts 1 and 2. 



1865-66. From the Society. 

 Leeds. Report of the Proceedings of the Geological and Polytechnic Society 



of the West Ridings of Yorkshire. 1S67. From the Society. 

 Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society. The Annual Reports for 1865- 



66. From the Society. 

 London. The Popular Science Review. Nos. 23, 24 and 25. 1867. From 



the Library Fund. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Vol. 4, Parts 3, 7 



and 8. Nos. 39, 43 and 44. 1866. From the Society. 

 The London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. Fourth Se- 

 ries. Nos. 215 to 228. 1866-67. From the Library Fund. 

 The Transactions of the Entomological Society. 3d Series. Vol. 3, Part 



3, and Vol. 5, Part 4. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Scientific Meetings of the Zoological Society of London, 



for the year 1866. Parts 1, 2, 3. 18G6. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Committee of Science, and Correspondence of the 



Zoological Society of London. 15 Vols., from 1830 to 1862, inclusive, 



and also Illustrations, 1841 to 1860. Vol. V., Mollusca. Deposited by 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Transactions of the Zoological Society of London. Vol. 6, Part 2. London, 



1867. From the Society. 

 Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 21 — 26, 28, and 



30. 1867. From the Publishers. 

 The Athennsum Journal. Nos. 2032 to 2083. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science. New Series, Nos. 24 to 28, 



1866. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Tbe Ibis, a Quarterly Journal of Ornithology. Edited by Alfred Newton, 



M.A. New Series, Nos. 8 to 11. FrOm the Wilson Fund. 



17 




258 



DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



The Journal of the Society of Arts and of the Institutions in Union. Vol. 



11, Nos. .')72 and 573, 1863, and Vol. 14. From the Society. 

 The Reader. Vol 8, Nos. 210 and 21 1. From the Library Fund. 

 The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. 22, Part 4 ; Vol. 



23, Parts 1, 2 and 3. From the Society. 

 List of the Geological Society for 1865 and 1866. From the Society. 

 The Geological Magazine. Vols. 1 and 2, 1864—65. From the Library 



Fund. 

 Journal of the Linnean Society, Vol. 9. Botany, Nos. 38 and 39 ; Zoology, 



Nos. 34 and 35. 1867. From the Society. 

 The Transactions of the Linnean Society of London. Vol. 25, Part 3. 



General Index to vols. 1 to 25 of same. From the Society. 

 The Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. 



Vol. 2. New Series, Part 2. London, 1866. Also No. 185, Dec, 1847, 



Vol. 15, Title and Index, and Vol. 16, Part 1, and Vol. 18, Part 1. From 



the Society. 

 Notes and Queries. Parts 55 to 67. Third Series, 1867. From the 



Editor. 

 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society for the years 1866-67. 



Vol. 155, Part 2 ; Vol. 15G, Parts 1 and 2 ; Vol. 157, Part 1. From the 



Society. 

 List of Members, &c., of the same. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society. Nos. 78 to 94, 1867. From the Society. 

 The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. 3d Series. Nos. 105 to 116. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society. Vol. 10 and Vol. 11, 



Nos. 1 and 2. 1866-67, From the Society. 

 The Journal of the Royal Geographical Society. Vol. 36. 1866. From 



the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Horticultural Society of London. New Series. 



Vol. 1, No. 6. 1866. From the Society. 

 The Journal cf the Royal Horticultural Society of London. New Series. 



Vol. 1, Part 4. 1867. From the Society. 

 Royal Horticultural Society's Proceedings. Vol. 1, New Series. February 



and March, 1867. Nos. 7 and 8. From the Society. 

 The Journal of the Chemical Society. From Oct.,' 1866, to Sept., 1867. 



From the Society. 

 The Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. No. 2. May, 1867. From the 



Library Fund. 

 .New-Castle-upou-Tyne. Natural History Transactions of Northumberland and 



Durham. Vol. 1, Part 2. 1866. From the Tyneside Naturalists' Club. 



UNITED STATES. 



-Albany. Transactions of the Albany Institute. Vol. 5. 1867. From the 



Institute. 

 Forty-ninth Annual Report of the Trustees of the New York State Library, 



1867. From the Trustees. 

 Boston. Annual of Scientific Discovery. Edited by David A. Wells, A.M. 



1863—1867. Four Vols. From the Library Fund. 

 Transactions of the National Association of Wool Manufacturers, 1865-66. 



Prom the Association. 

 Condition and Doings of the Boston Society of Natural History. May, 



1866 and 1867. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vols. 9 and 10: 



Vol. 11 to page 208. From the Society. 

 Memoirs read before the Boston Society of Natural History ; being a new 



series of Boston Journal of Natural History. Vol. 1, Parts I and 2. 



.1866-67. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 259 



Boston Journal of Natural History. Vol. 7, Nos. 1 — 4. 1863. From the 



Society, through the Conchological Section. 

 Annual Report of the Trustees of the Museum of Comparative Zoology. 



1866-67. From the Museum. 

 Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. 7, pp. 



97 to 184. From the Society. 

 Boston Journal of Chemistry. Vol. 2, Nos. 1 to 4. 1867. From the 

 Editor. 

 Brooklyn. Fourth Annual Report of the Board of Directors, &c., of the Long 



Island Historical Society. May, 1867. From the Society. 

 Cambridge. Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society at the Semi- 

 Annual Meeting, held in Boston April 24, 1867. From the Society. 

 Annual of the National Academy of Sciences for 1863, 1865, 1866, 1867. 

 From the Society. 

 Cleveland The Family Visitor 1 Vol. 1850 From S. S. Haldeman, Esq. 

 Detroit. Proceedings of the American Pharmaceutical Association at the 14th 

 Annual Meeting, held in Detroit, Mich., August, 1866. Philada., 1866. 

 From the Association. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. Conducted by 

 Profs. Silliman and Dana. Nos. 127 to 132. November, 1867. From 

 the Editors. 

 New York. The Chemical News and Journal of Physical Science. Vol. l,Nos. 

 1 to 6. 1867. From Messrs. Townsend & Adams. 

 Historical Magazine. Ten Vols. From Wm. S. Vaux. 

 The New York Medical Journal. Vol. 4, Nos. 23 and 24, and Vol. 5, No. 1. 



Feb., 1867. From the Editor. 

 United States Sanitary Commission Bulletin, 1863. Three Vols, in one. 



1866. From the Sanitary Commission. 



Documents of the U. S. Sanitary Commission. 2 Vols., 8vo. 1866. From 



the Commission. 

 Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York. Vols. 13 and 14. 



1867. From the Society. 



American Educational Monthly. Vol. 4, No. 1. 1867. From the Editor. 

 Philadelphia. Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



New Series. Vol. 6, Part 2. 1867. From the Publication Committee. 

 Proceedings of the same. 1867. Nos. 1, 2, 3. From the Publication 



Committee. 

 Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Philadelphia. Vol. 6, 1866-67. 



Transactions of the same. Vol. 1, Nos. 1 and 2. From the Society. 

 Memoirs of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Vol. !. From Wm. 



S. Vaux. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 10, Nos. 76 and 



77. 1866. From the Society. 

 The Dental Cosmos. New Series. From Vol. 8, No. 11, to Vol. 9, No. 5. 



From the Editors. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy. Vol. 39, Nos. 1 to 6. Jan., 1867. From 



the Editor. 

 The American Journal of the Medical Sciences. Edited by Isaac Hays, M.D. 



Nos. 105 to 108. New Series. 1867. From the Editor. 

 The Medical News and Library. Vol. 25. July, 1867. No. 295. From 



the Editor. 

 American Journal of Conchology. Edited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 1865 



and 1866. Vols. 1 and 2. From the Editor. 

 Same. Vol.3. Parts 1,2 and 3. From the Publication Committee of the 



Conchological Section. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Edited by Thos. Meehan. From Vol. 8, No. 12, 



to Vol. 9, No. 12. Dec, 1867. From the Editor 

 Scientific Journal. Vol. 1, Nos. 1 to 12. 1867. From the Editor. 




260 DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



Salem. Proceedings of the Essex Institute. Vol. 5, Nos. 2, 3 and 4. Oct., 

 Nov. and Dec. 1866, 1867. From the Institute. 

 The American Naturalist. Vol 1, Nos. 1 to 10. From the Library Fund. 

 San Francisco. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Vol. 3, pp. 

 273 to 360. From the Society. 

 California Farmer for 1867. From the Editor. 

 Washington. Memoirs of the National Academy of Sciences. Vol. 1. 1866. 

 From the Academy. 

 Monthly Bulletin of the Directors of the Bureau of Statistics, Treasury 



Department. Jan. to Sep., 1867. From the Department. 

 Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for 

 1866. 1867. From the Smithsonian Institute. 

 Worcester. By-Laws of the Worcester Lyceum and Natural History Associa- 

 tion. From the Society. 



CANADA. 



Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. Vol. 3. New Series, Nos. 

 1 and 2. Feb., 1866. From the Editor. 



Quebec. Transactions of the Literary and Historical Society of Quebec. Ses- 

 sions of 1865-66, and 1866-67. New Series, Part 5. Quebec, 1867. 

 From the Society. 

 Annual Report of the Entomological Society of Canada. 1867. From the 

 Society. 



Toronto. The Canadian Journal of Industry, Science and Arts. New Series, 

 Nos. 63 and 65. September, 1867. From the Editor. 



CUBA. 



Habana. Repertorio fisico Natural de la Isla de Cuba. Director Felipe Poey. 

 Torao 2, Nos. 1—9. 1867. From the Editor. 

 Anales de la Real Academia de Ciencias Medicas, fisicas y Naturales de la 

 Habana. Tomo 2. Abril 15. 1866. From the Society. 



SOUTH AMERICA. 



Buenos Aires. Anales del Museo Publico de Buenos Aires. Entrego Tercera. 

 1866. From the Director. 



ASIA. 



Batavia. Natuurkundig Tidjschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie, uitgegeven door 

 de K. Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch Indie. Deelin 28, 29. 

 1865. From the Society. 



OTHER SCIENTIFIC \VORKS. 



Adams, Arthur, F.L.S. On the species of Mitridae found in the Seas of Japan, 

 Presented by the Author, through the Conchological Section of the 

 Academy. 

 On the Animal and Affinities of Fenella, with a List of the Species found 

 in the Seas of Japan. Presented by the Author, through the Concholo- 

 gical Section of the Academy. 

 Description of a new Genus, and of twelve new Species of Mollusca. Pre- 

 sented by the Author, through the Conchological Section of the Acade- 

 my. 

 Description of new Species of Fresh-water Shells, collected by F. G. Water- 

 house during J. McDonall Stuart's overland journey from Adelaide to 

 the north-west coast of Australia. Presented by the Author, through 

 the Conchological Section of the Academy. 




DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 261 



Notes on the Animals of certain Genera of Mollusca. Presented by the 



Author, through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 On the Animal of Umbonium vestiarium. Presented by the Author, through 



the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 On the Animal of Alycffius, and some other Cyclophoroid Genera. Pre- 

 sented by the Author, through the Conchological Section of the 



Academy. 

 On a supposed new Genus, and on some new Species of Pelagic Mollusca. 



Presented by the Author, through the Conchological Section of the 



Academy. 

 On some new Species of Cylichnidae, Bullidae and Philinidse, from the Seas 



of China and Japan. Presented by the Author, through the Concholo- 

 gical Section of the Academy. 

 On some new Species of Acephalous Mollusca from the Seas of Japan. 



Presented by the Author, through the Conchological Section of the 



Academy. 

 On the Japanese Species of Siphonalia, a proposed new Genus of Gaste- 



ropodous Mollusca. Presented by the Author, through the Conchologi- 

 cal Section of the Academy. 

 On some new Species of Mollusca from Japan. Presented by the Author, 



through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 On some some new Genera from Japan. Presented by the Author, through 



the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 On the Species of Neaera found in the Seas of Japan. Presented by the 



Author, through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 On the Species of Pyraniidellinre found in Japan. Presented by the Author, 



through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 Notes on some JIoUuscous Animals from the Seas of China and Japan. 



Presented by the Author, through the Conchological Section of the 



Academy. 

 On the Animal and Float of lanthina. Presented by the Author, through 



the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 On the Animal and Atlinities of the Genus Alaba ; with a Review of the 



known Species, and Descriptions of some new Species. Presented by 



the Author, through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 On some new Species of Fissurellidae from the Seas of China and Japan. 



Presented by the Author, through the Conchological Section of the 



Academy. 

 On the Genera and Species of Liotiinffi found in Japan. Presented by the 



Author, through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 On the Genera and Species of Fossaridae found in Japan. Presented by 



the Author, through the Conchological Section of the Academj'. 

 On Microstelma and Onoba, two forms of Rossoid Gasteropods ; with 



Notices of new Species of the latter from Japan. Presented by the 



Author, through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 On the Species of Muricinaj found in Japan. Presented by the Author, 



through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 On some new Species of Mollusca from Japan. Presented by the Author, 



through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 On some new Genera and Species of Mollusca from Japan. Presented by 



the Author, through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 Molusca Japonica. New Species of Chrysallida and Parthenia. Presented 



by the Author, through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 Description of some new Species of Limopsis from the Cumingian Col- 

 lection. Presented by the Author, through the Conchological Section 



of the Academy. 

 On the Species of Obeliscinae found in Japan. Presented by the Author^ 



through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 Description of a new Genus of Shells from the Collection of Hugh Cumings, 




262 DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



Esq. Presented by the Author, through the Conchological Section of 



the Academy. 

 List of Shells collected by Samuel White Baker, Esq., during his recent 



Explorations in Central Africa. Presented by the Author, through the 



Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 Description of fifteen new Species of Land and Fresh-water Shells trom 



Formosa, collected by Robert Swinhoe, Esq. Presented by the Author, 



through the Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 Adams, Henrj- and Arthur. Description of new Species of Shells, chiefly from 



the Cumingian Collection. Presented by the Authors, through the 



Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 Adams, Henry, F.L.S., and G. F. Angus Descriptions of new Genera and 



Species of Chitonidae from the Australian Seas, in the Collection of Geo. 



French Angas. Presented by the Authors, through the Conchological 



Section of the Academy. 

 Adams, Henry, F.L.S. Description of a new Genus and a new Species of Mol- 



lusks. Presented by the Author, through the Conchological Section of 



the Academy. 

 Adams, Capt. John. Remarks on the Country extending from Cape Palmas to 



the River Congo. London, 1823. From S. S. Haldeman, Esq. 

 A Force, as of Magnetism, considered as in a measure controling Planetary 



Motion, &c. From the Author. 

 Agassiz, L. Geological Sketches. By L. Agassiz. 12mo. Boston, 1866. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Nomenclatoris Zoologici Index Universalis, continens nomina systematica 



Classium, Ordinum. Familiarum et Generum Animalium omnium. Solo- 



dure 1°46. Presented by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., through the Conchological 



Section of the Academy. 

 Albers, John Christ. Die Heliceen nach naturlicher Verwandschaft systema- 



tisch geordnet. 2nd Ed. Leipzig. 1860. From Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Amati, Profr. Amato. Confini e Denomiuazioni della regione Orientale dell' 



Alta Italia. Milano, 1866. From the Author. 

 Annual Report of the Calcutta Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India, 



Palseoutologia Indica. 186r'-66. From the Survey. 

 Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of the State of Nevada for 1866. Car- 

 son City, 1867. From the Author. 

 Ansted, L). T." The Application of Geology to the Arts and Manufactures. 



London. 1865. From the Library Fund. 

 Antelme, A. Histoire Naturelle des Insectes et des Mollusques. Par Adrien 



Antelme. 12me. Paris, 1841. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Arango. Catalogo de los Moluscos Terrestres Fluviales dela Isla de Cuba. By 



Rafael Arango. 8vo Pamphlet. Havana, 1865. From the Author. 

 Astrand, J. J. Lelog Xoiagtig .Methode for bestemmelse af den paakommende 



Breide og Laengdeom middagen samt compassets misvisuing ud en 



hjaelp af Logarithmer. Bergen, 1864. From the Author. 

 Regnebog for Skolungdommen. Bergen, 1861. From the Museum at 



Bergen. 

 A-rgenville, M D. L'Histoire Naturelle eclaircie dans une de ses parties princi- 



pales, i'Oryctology. Par M. D. Argenville. Paris, 1755. 4to. Deposited 

 by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Des Herrn Dezallier von Argenville Conchyliologie oder Abhandlung von 



den Schnecken. Muscheln und audern Schaalthieren welche in der su 



in siissen Wassern und auf dera Lands gefunden werden. Folio. AVien, 

 1772. Presented by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., through the Conchological 

 Section. 

 Bailly, W. H. Figures of characteristic British Fossils, with descriptive re- 

 marks. Part 1, Plates 1 — 10. London, 1867. From the Author. 

 Barnard, J. G. Eulogy on the late Brevet Maj. General Jos. G. Totten, By 

 J. G. Barnard. Washington, 1866. From the Author. 




DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 263 



Barrande, Joachim. Pteropodes Siluriens de la Boheme. Prague, 1867. From 

 the Author. 

 Ce[)halopodes Siluriens de la Boheme. From the Author. 

 Bauernfeiud, Dr. Carl M. Die Bedeutung Moderuer Gradmessungen. Munchen, 



1866. From the Author. 

 Bennecke, Dr. E. W. Geognostisch Palaontologische Beitriige. ler Band, 2 



Heft. Miinchen, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Beneden, P. J. Van. Exercices Zootomiques. Par P. J. Van Beneden. 4to. 

 Deposited by Geo. W Tryon, Jr. 

 Recheri'hes sur L'Embryogeuie des Sepioles. Par P. J. Van Beneden. 4to. 

 Pamphlet. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Bentham, G. Genera Plantarum ad e.xeraplaria imprimis in Herbariis Kewen- 

 sibus ser\-a<:a definita. Auctoribus G. Bentham et J. D. Hooker. Volu- 

 men Primum, sistens Dicotyledonum Polypetalarum Ordines LXXXIII. 

 Ranunculaceas-Cornaceas. Londini, 1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Berge, F. Gonchylienbuch oder allgemeine und besondere Naturgeschichte 

 der Muscheln und Schnecken. Stuttgart, 1855. Presented through the 

 Conchological Section, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Beretning om den Internationale Fiskeriudstilling i Bergen 1865. From the 



Museum at Bergen. 

 Bergen, C. A. de. Classes Conchyliorum. 4to. Norimbergte, 1760. Depos- 

 ited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Bielz, Walder, Hebler and West. Conchological Papers. One Volume, 8vo. 



Presented through the Conchological Section, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Bielz, E A. Fauna der Land und Siisswasser JloUusken Siebenbiirgens. Her- 

 mannstadt, 1863 Presented through the Conchological Section, by 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Bidrag til Bygningsskikkens Udvikling paa Landst i Norge. 1st Heft. Christi- 



ania, 1865. From the University of Norway. 

 Bigsby, J. J. A brief account of the Thesaurus siluriens, with a few tacts and 



inferences. From the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Billings, E. Catalogues of the Silurian Fossils of the Island of Auticosti. By 



E. Billings. Montreal, 1866. From the Author. 

 Binney, W. G. Land and Fresh-water Shells of North America. Parts 2 and 

 3. Pulmonata, Limnophila and Thalassophila. Bj^ Wm. G. Binney. 8vo. 

 Washington, 1865. From the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Binney, Amos. Papers from Boston Journal of Natural History. One Volume. 

 8vo. Presented through the Conchological Section, by George W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 

 Bischoff, Dr. Th. L. Ueber die Verschiedenheit in der Schiidelbildung des 

 Gorilla, Chimpanse und Orang-Outang. 4to Pamphlet, with 22 Folio 

 Lithographs. Miinchen, 1867. From the Author. 

 Blanchard, Emile. Les Poi&sons des Eau.K douces de la France. 8vo. Paris, 



1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Blanford, W. T. Contributions to Indian Malacology. No. 8. List of Estuary 

 Shells collected in the delta of the Irawady, in Pegu, with descriptions 

 of the new species. From the Author, through the Conchological Sec- 

 tion. 

 Barbut, Jas. The Genera Vermium. By Jas. Barbut. 4to. London, 1788. 



Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Boeck, W. Recherches sur la Syphilis appuydes de Tableaux de Statistique 

 tires des Archives des Hopitau.x de Cliristiania. Par W. Boeck. 

 Christiania, 1862. From the University of Norway. 

 Bommer, J. E. Monographic de la Classe des Fougeres. Bru.xelles, 1867. 



From the Author. 

 Bordere, M. Henry. Dt-couverte dans las Pyrenees d'une espece presume 



nouvelle du Clypeola. From the Linnean Society of Bordeau.v. 

 Bourguignat, M. J. R. MoUusques nouveaux, litigieu.x ou peu connus. 6me 

 et 7me Fasc. 1866. From Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., through the Concholo- 

 gical Section. 




264 DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



Amenites Malacologiques. Par J. R. Bourguignat. Tomes 1 et 2. De- 

 posited by Geo. \V. Tryon, Jr. 

 Malacologie de la Grande Chartreuse. 1 Vol. 8vo, Paris, 1864. Presented 



by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., through the Conchological Section. 



5Ionographie des Genres Paladilhia et Moitessieria, MoUusques de San 



Julia de Loria, MoUusques du Sahara Methodus Conchyliologicus, Testa- 



cea noyissiiua de Saulcy. 1 Vol., 8yo. Presented by Geo. W. Tryon, 



Jr., through the Conchological Section. 



Etudes des MoUusques des Alpes. Malacologie du Chateau d'If. Malacologie 



d'Aix les Bains, Malacologie du Lac des Quatre Cautons. 1 Vol., 8vo. 



Presented by George W. Tryon, Jr., through the Conchological Section. 



Les Spicileges Malacologiques. 1 Vol., 8vo. Paris, 1862. Presented by 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., tlirough the Conchological Section. 

 Malacologie terrestre et fluyiatile de la Bretagne. 1 Vol., 8yo. Paris, 1860. 

 Presented by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., through the Conchological Section. 

 Brandt, F. V. Ueber der Verniintlichen Unteischied des Caucasischen Bison, 

 zubr oder sogenannten Auerochsen yom Lithauischen (Bos Bison seu 

 Bonasus). Moskau, 1860. From the Author. 

 Brandt, J. F. Zoogcographische und Palffiontologische Beitriige. St. Peters- 

 burg, 1867. From the Author. 

 Bree, C. R. A History of the Birds of Europe not observed in the British 



Isles. 4 Vols., 8vo. London. From the Library Fund. 

 Broca, Dr. Paul. On the Phenomena of Hybridity in the Genus Homo. Edited 



by C. Carter Blake. London, 1864. From the Library Fund. 

 Broch, Dr. 0. J. Traite Eleraeutaire des Fonctions eliptiques. Par Dr. 0. J. 

 Broch. Premier Fasc. Christiana, 1866. From the University of 

 Norway. 

 Bronn, Dr. H. G. Klassen und Ordnung des Thier-Reichs. 3d Band und 

 Fiinfter Band, 1 to 4 Lief. Leipzig, 1867. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Eiuleitung in die Kouchyliologie, yon Geo. Johnston, M.D. Herausgegeben 

 und mit einem Vorworte eingeleitet von Dr. H. G. Bronn. Stuttgart, 

 1853. Presented by George W. Tryon, Jr., through the Conchological 

 Section. 

 Brown, J. Ross, and Jas. W. Taylor. Reports upon the Mineral Resources of 



the United States. Washington, 1867. From Hon. Leonard Myers. 

 Brown, Capt. Thomas. The Ta.xidermist's Manual. London, 1858. Presented 



through the Conchological Section, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Brusina. Coutribuzione pella Fauna dei MoUusihi Dalmati per Spiridione 



Brusina. Vienna, 1866. From the Author. 

 Buchanan, Dr. F. R. Index Criticus Juncaginaceorum hucusque descriptarum. 



From the Author. 

 Buonanni, P. T. Recreatione dell Occhio edellament dal P. T. Buonanni. 4to. 



Ramue, 1681. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Cailliaud. .\1. Frederic. Voyage a Meroe au Fleuve Blanc au-dela de Fazoql 

 dans le midi du Royaume de Sennar a Syouah et dans cinq autres 

 Oasis. Nantes. 4 vols., Svo. Paris, 182'j. Presented through the 

 Conchological Section, by the Author. 

 Des Monstruosites ches divers MoUusques. Presented through the Con- 

 chological Section, by the Author. 

 Procede employe par les Pholades, dans leur perforation. Presented 



through the Conchological Section, by the Author. 

 Catalogue des Radiares, des Annelides, des Cirrhipedes et des MoUusques 

 mains, terrestres et fluviatiles recuellis dans le Departement de la Loire 

 Inferieure. Nantes, 1865. Presented through the Conchological Section, 

 by the Author. 

 Observations sur les Oursins Perforants. Presented through the Concho- 

 logical Section, by the Author. 

 Memoire sur les MoUusques Perforants. Harlem, 1856. From the Author, 

 through the Conchological Section. 




DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 265 



Sur I'Existence de la Faune Troisieme Silurienne dans le Nord est du De- 



partementde la Loire luferieure. Presented through the Conchological 



Section, by the Author. 

 Notice sur le Genre Clausilie. Nantes, 1854. Presented through the 



Conchological Section, by the Author. 

 Campbell, Robert. An Account of a Journey among the Egbas and Yorubas 



of Central Africa in 1859-60. New York, 1861. From S. S. Haldeman. 

 Cantrane, F. Malacologie Mediterraneenne et Littorale. Bruxelles, 1840. 



Presented through the Conchological Section, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Carmany, John H. A Review of the Mining, Agricultural and Commercial In- 

 terests of the Pacific States for the j-ear 1866. Sau Francisco, 1867. 



From the Author. 

 Castilla, Alfonso de. Libros del saber de Astronomia del Ray D. Alfonso de 



Castilla. Copilados, anotados _y comentados por Don Manuel Rico y 



Sinobas. Tome 4. Madrid, 1866. From the Royal Academy of Madrid. 

 Catalogue of Meteorites in the Museum of the Geological Survey of India. Cal- 

 cutta, 1866. From the Survey. 

 Catalog over de til den Internationale Fiskeriudstilling i Bergen, 1865. From 



the Museum at Bergen. 

 Catalogus van de Boekerij der K. Akademie van Wetenschappen gevestigd te 



Amsterdam. Tweeden Deels, Eerste Stuk. 1866. From the Society. 

 Catalogue of Official Reports u[ion Geological Surveys of the United States and 



British Provinces. From Prof. 0. C. Marsh. 

 Catalogue of the Organic Remains belonging to the Cephalopoda in the Museum 



of the Geological Survey of India. Calcutta, 1866. 

 Catalogue of the Recent Shells in the Museum of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. 



Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Catalogue of the National Institute and Government Conservatory. Washington, 



D. C, 1865. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Catalogues of Natural History Books. 4 Vols., 8vo. Deposited by George W. 



Tryon, Jr. 

 Chamisso Adelbertus de. Cetaceorum maris Kamtschatici imagenes ab Aleutis 



e ligno fictas adumbravit recensuitque Adelbertus de Chammisso. From 



Prof S. S. Haldeman. 

 Chenu. Lecons elementaires d'Histoire Naturelle. Par M. J. Chenu. 8vo. 



Paris, 1847. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Clark, Wm. A History of the British .Marine Testaceous Mollusca. By Wm. 



Clark. London, 1865. Presented by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., through the 



Conchological Section of the Academy. 

 Codazza, Giovanni. Sopra Alcuni punti della teoria della Costruzione dei 



generatori di Vapore. From the Author. 

 Sulla Polarizzazione rototaria della Luce totto I'lnfluenza della azioni 



elettro magnetiche. From the Author. 

 Coleman, Rev. Lyman. The great Crevasse of the Jordan and of the Red Sea. 



From the Author, 

 Collet, A. G. French and English, and English and French Dictionary. By 



A. G. Collett. Philadelphia, 1852. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Conrad, T. A. New Recent and Fossil Shells. By T. A. Conrad. 1 Vol., 8mo. 



Deposited by Geo. VV. Tryon, Jr. 

 Cook, Josiah P., Jr. Contributions to Chemistry and Mineralogy from the 



Laboratory of Harvard College. New Haven, 1867. From the Author. 

 Cooper. J. G. The West Coast Helicoid Land Shells. 8vo. tract. From the 



Author. 

 Cope, Edw. D. Monographs on the Anura, Urodela and Cyprinidi3e. From the 



Author. 

 Cornalia, Emalio. Notizie Geo-Mineralogiche sopra Alcune Valli Meridionali 



del Tirolo. Milano, 1858. From the Author. 

 Cornay, J. E. Principes de Physiologic et (ilements de Morphogenie gdnerale. 



Paris, 1853. From S. S. Haldeman, Esq. 




266 DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



Cox, Jas. C, M.D. Catalogue of the Specimens of the Australian Land Shells 



in the Collection of J. C. Cox. Sydney, 1864. From the Author. 

 Cresson, E. T. Descriptions of American Pompilidse. Philadelphia, 1867. 



From the Author. 

 Cuvier, M. le Baron G. Recherches snr les Ossemens Fossiles. 3me Edition. 



5 Vols, in 7. Paris, 1825. From the Library Fund. 

 Memoire sur le genre Laplysia. Par G. Cu%aer. 4to. Deposited br Geo. 



W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Memoire sur le genre Doris. Par G. Cuvier. 4to. pamphlet. Deposited 



by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Daniels, Edward. A Treatise on the Nohl Smelting Furnace. Chicago, 1867. 



From the Author. 

 Dam'in, Chas. On the Origin of Species by means of Natural Selection. By 



Chas. Darwin. London, 1866. From the subscribers to the Library 



Fund. 

 Debeaux, 0. Diagnose d'une Espece nouvelle d'Helix de File de Corse. Pre- 

 sented through the Conchological Section, by the Author. 

 Dejean's Catalogue. Manuscript additions by S. S. Haldeman. From S. S. 



Ilaldeman, Esq. 

 Delle Chiaie. -Memorie sulla storia enotomia degli animali senza vertebre del- 



regnodi Napoli. Vols. 1, 2. 3 and 4. 1823. and Atlas. Deposited by 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Denny, Henry. On the Occurrence of a Lead Celt in Linconshire. From the 



Author. 

 Deshayes. Molusques du Voyage de Belanger. 1 Vol., 4to. Presented through 



the Conchological Section, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Dippel, Leopold. Das Mikroskcp und seine anra?ndung. Erster Theil. 



Braunschweig, 1867. From the Library Fund. 

 D'Orbigny, Alcide. MoUusques de L'lle de Cuba. Paris, 1853. 2 Vols, text, 



8vo. ; 1 Vol. Plates, Folio (Sagras Histoire). Presented through the 



Conchological Section, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 MoUusques Echinodermes, Foraminiferes et Polypiers. Recueillis aux 



lies Canaries. Par M. M. Webb Berthelot, et decrito par Alcide D'Or- 

 bigny. 1 Vol., Fol. Presented through the Conchological Section, bj" 



Geo.'w. Tryon, Jr. 

 Dozy and Molkenbauer. Bryologia Javanica. Fasc 49 et 50. Lugduni-Bata- 



vorum, 1866. From the "Wilson Fund. 

 Dressel, L. Die Basaltbildung in ihren Einzelnen umstanden erliiutert. Haar- 

 lem, 1866. From the Dutch Society of Sciences. 

 Drouet, Henri. Etudes sur les Naiades de la France. Ire Partie, Anodonta, 



Seconde Partie, Unio, 8vo. Troyes, 1857. Deposited by Geo. W. 



Tryon, Jr. 

 Essai sur les MoUusques, terrestres et fluviatiles de la Guyane Francaise. 



8vo. Paris, 1859. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 MoUusques .Marins des lies A cores. Par Henri Drouet. Paris, 1858. 



Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Dubois, Charles F. Oiseaux de Europe. 2 lime to 224me Livrs. Bruxelles, 



1866—1867. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Dumont, Henri. Des Maladies Virulentes et Miasmatiques en general. Par 



Henri Dumont. Coulommiers, 1863. From the Authors. 

 Duncan's Travels in Western Africa. 2 vols. London, 1847. S. S. Halde- 

 man, Esq. 

 Dunker, Dr. A. G. Index Molluscorum quae in itenere ad Guineam Inferoirem 



Collegit Georguis tams Med. Dr. Auctore Guilielmo Dunker. Cassellis 



Cattorum, 1853. Deposited by Geo. W. Tr\-on, Jr. 

 Dunker, Wilh. Pala?ontographica. Beitriige zur Naturgeschichte der Vorwelt. 



Fiinfzehnter Band, 5e Lief, to 16er Band, 5e Lief. Herausgegebtn von 



Hermann von Mej'er und W. Dunker. Cassel, 1867. From the Wilson 



Fund. 




DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



267 



Duval, M. Jaquelin. Manuel Entomologique Genera des Coleopteres d'Europe. 

 Tomes 1, 2, 3 ; also Livrs 112—134. Paris, 1858. From the Library Fund. 



Duvernoy, M. Memoires sur Le systeme Nerveux des Mollusques acephales 

 lamellibranches ou bivalves. Par M. Duvernoy. 4to. Deposited by 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Dursy, Dr. Emil. "Der Primitifstreif des Hiilinchens. Lahr, 18G7. From the 

 Library Fund. 



Edwards, Arthur Mead. Results of an Examination, under the Microscope, of 

 some Japanese Infusorial Earths and other deposits of China and ^.ion- 

 golia. From the Author. 



Edwards, Milne. Circulation chez les Mollusques. Presented through the 

 Conchological Section, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Eichwald, Ed. von. Die Rhytina borealis und der Homocrinus dipentas in der 

 Lethaea Rossica. Geschildert von Ed. von Eichwald. Moskau, 1866. 

 From the Author. 

 Beitrag zur Geschichte der Geoguosie und Palaeontologie in Russland. 

 Moskau, 1866. From the Author. 



Emmons, E. Manuel of Geology. By Ebenezer Emmons. 1860. Philadel- 

 phia. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Encyclopedic Methodique. Vers, vols. 1, 2 and 3 ; Planches, -vols. 1 and 3, 

 4to. Paris, 1792. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Englemann's Bibliotheca Zoologica. Band I and 2, Svo. Leipzig, 1861. De- 

 posited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Englemann's Bibliotheca Historico-Naturalis. Bvo. Leipzig, 1846. De- 

 posited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Erdmann, A. Sveriges Geologiska Undersokning pii offentlig bekostnad utford 

 under ledning af A. Erdmann. 19, 20 and 21, with 5 Maps. Stockholm, 

 1866. From the Geological Bureau of Sweden. 



Ewald. See Von Buch. 



Excursion de la Soci6t6 Linneenue a Bayas. From M. Des Moulins. 



Fauna Groenlandica Othonis Fabricii, 1780. Hafniae et Lipsiae. Deposited 

 by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Ferrara. II Monte Mario ed Isuoi Fossili Subapennine. By Angelo Conte di 

 Ferrara. 8vo pamphlet. Rome. 1846. From Jean Rigacei. 



Feuchtwanger, Dr. L. A popular Treatise on Gems in reference to their 

 Scientific value. By Dr. L. Feuchtwanger. New York, 1859. From 

 the Library Fund. 



Finsch, 0. und G. Hartlaub. Beitrag zur Fauna Centralpolynesiens, Ornitho- 

 logie der Uti, Samoa und Tonga luseln. Halle, 1867. From the 

 Library Fund. 



Finsch, Otto. Die Papageien, Monographisch bearbeitet. Erster Band. Lei- 

 den, 1867. From the Author. 



Fischer, Dr. Paul. Faune Conchyliologique Marin du Departement de la 

 Gironde et des Cotes du Sud-Ouest de la France. Paris, 1865. From 

 the Author. 



Forbes, W. S., M. D. History of the Anatomy Act of Pennsylvania. Phila- 

 delphia, 1867. From the Author. 



Fraser, Malcolm Extracts from a Manuscript Journal, relating to the Siege 

 of Quebec in 1759, kept by Col. Malcolm Fraser. From the Literary 

 and Historical Society of Quebec. 



Frauenfeld, G. Ritter von. Ein liesuch im Bohmerwalde nebst Aufzahlung 

 der Varietaten des Zoologischen Kabinets im hochfiirstlich schwarz- 

 berg'schen Jagdschlosse Wohradnachst Frauenberg, nach Mittheilung 

 des Herrn Fortsmeisters Franz Hoydar From the Author. 

 Zoologische Miscellen. VII. to X. I-'rom the Author. 

 Weitere Mittheilung iiber die Rapswespe. From the Author. 

 Ueber die bisher eingelangten diessjiihrigen Berichte von landwirthschaft- 

 lichen Insektenschiiden. From the Author. 



Fifty Conchological Pamphlets. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 




268 DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



Figuier, Louis. The Vegetable World. 8vo. London, 1866. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Freyer's Neure Beitriige sur Schmetterlingskunde. S. S. Haldeman, Esq. 

 Gabb, Wm. M. On the subdivisions of the Cretaceous Formation in California. 



Bvo. tract. From the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Synopsis of Cretaceous Mollusca, and papers from the Proc. A. N S. 1 



vol., 8vo. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Gaimard. Voyage Autour du Monde. Fait ar order du roi. Zoologie par 



jMM Quoy et Gaimard. 1 vol. 4to and Atlas Fol. Paris, 1824. De- 

 posited bj' Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Mollusques du Voyage de I'Astrolabe. Par. MM. Quoy et Gaimard. Vols. 



II. and III, 8vo, and Atlas, Fol. Paris, 1832. Deposited by Geo. W. 



Tryon, Jr. 

 Gassies, J. B. Faune Conchyliologique terrestres et fluviolacustre de la 



Nouvelle Caledonie. 8vo Paris, 1863. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Garavaglio, Dottor Santo. Catalogo di Alcune Grittogame raccolte nella 



Provincia di Como e Nella Valtellina dal. Pts. II. and III. Milano, 



1838. From the Author. 

 Manznnia Cantiana novum Lichenum Angiocarporum genus propositum 



atque descriptum. Mediolani. From the Author. 

 Tentamen dipositionis Methodicae Lichenum in Longobardia Nascentium. 



Prolegomena and three parts. Mediolani, 1865. From the Author. 

 Alcuni discorsi Sulla Botanica. Fasc. I. and II. Pavia, 1865, From the 



Author. 

 Sur pius recenti Sistemi Lichenologici. Pavia, 1865. From the Author. 

 Dela distribuzione Geografica del Licheni di Lombardia. Pavia, 1864. 



From the Author. 

 Enumeratio Muscorum omnium in Austria Inferiore. Viennae, 1840. 



From the Author. 

 Geelmuyden, T. Titus Livius's Romerske Historie. Oversat. Bergen, 1863. 



From the Museum at Bergen. 

 Geological and Agricultural Survey of 100 miles west of Omaha. By the 



American Bureau of Mines. New York, 1866. From the Buieau. 

 Geologisk Kart, over det son denf Jeldske ^orge omfattende Christiania Hamar- 



og ChristianlaHds Stifter. Christiania, 1858 — 1865. From the Geolog- 

 ical Survey of Sweden. 

 Gerstaecker, A. Bericht iiber die wissenschaftlichen Leistungen im Gehiete 



der Entomologie wiihrend der Jahre 1863 und 1864. les und 2es Hafte. 



Berlin, 1866 and 1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Gervais, Paul. Zoologie et Paleoutologie generales. Premier Serie, Livr 1. 



Paris. From the Library Fund. 

 Recherches sur les Mammiferes Fossiles del Amerique Meridionale. From 



Dr. Leidy. 

 Gevens, Nicolaus Geo. Belustigung ira Reiche der Natur. Hamburg, 1790. 



4to. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Gibelli, Dr. G. Sugli Organi Riproduttori del genere Verrucaria. Milano, 



1865. From the Author. 



Giebel, Dr. C. Repertorio zu Goldfuss Petrefakten Deutschlands. Leipzig, 



1866. From the Subscribers of the Library Fund. 



Gobrecht. Prof. Gobrecht's Salutatory. Medical College of Ohio. Session 



of 1867-68. From the Author. 

 Gould, A. A., M. D. The Naturalist Library. Boston, 1850. Deposited by 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Otia Conchologicae. 8vo. Boston, 1862. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Gould's Invertebrata of Massachusetts. 8vo. Cambridge, 1841. From 



Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Memoir of Dr. Amos Binney. Boston, 18.".0. Deposited by Geo. W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 




DONATIONS TO THE LIBRABY. 269 



Gould's Birds of Great Britain. Parts 9 and 10. From the Wilson Fund. 



Gould's Birds of Asia. Part 18. From the Wilson Fund. 



Graesse, J. G. T. Tresor de Livres rares et precieux. Tome 6me, Livr's 8 to 



10. Dresde, 1867. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Gravenhorst, Dr. J. L. C. Ueber den Nestbau der Zvrerg-Maus, Mus minutus. 



S. S. Haldeman, Esq. 

 Gray, Asa. Manual of the Botany of the Northern United States. 5th edition. 



New York, 1867. From Charles E. Smith. 

 Grey's First Lessons in Botany. 8vo. New York, 1859. Deposited by Geo. 



W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Gray, John Edward. Synopsis of the species of Starfish in the British Muse- 

 um. London, 1866. From the Author. 

 Spicilegia Zoologica. Part L London. S. S. Haldeman, Esq. 

 Grisebach, A. Catalogus Plantarura Cubensium exhibens coUectionem Wright- 

 ianum aliasque minorea ex insula Cuba missas. Lipsiae, 1866. From 

 the Library Fund. 

 Grote, A. R. and C. T. Robinson. Descriptions of American Lcpidoptera. 

 No. 1. Philadelphia, 1867. From the Authors. 

 Notes on the Lepidoptera of America. New York, 1867. From the Authors. 

 Description of American Lepidoptera. No. 2. From the Authors. 

 Grote, Augustus R. Notes on the Zygaenidie of Cuba. Part II. From the 



Author. 

 Guichenot. Le Trigle polyommate, nouveau genre de poisson de la familie 



des Trigloides. From the Author. 

 Gunther, Albert. Catalogue of the Fishes in the British Museum. Vol. 6th. 



London, 1866. From the Wilson Fund, 

 llaidinger, W. Ritter V. Der Meteorsteinfall am 9. Juni 1866, bei Knyahmya. 



Zweiter Bericht. From the Author. 

 Hall, Prof. Jas. Report of the Geological Surrey of the State of Wisconsin. 

 Vol. I. Jas. Hall on general Geology and Palaeontology, and J. D. 

 Whitney on the Upper Mississippi Lead Region. Jan. 1862. From 

 Prof. Jas. Hall. 

 Hall, James. Note on the Genus Palaeaster and other Fossil Starfishes. From 

 the Author. 

 Description of some new species of Crinoidea and other fossils from the 

 lower Silurian strata of the Age of the Hudson River Group and Tren- 

 ton Limestone. From the Author. 

 Hancock and Embleton. On the Anatomy of Doris. Presented through the 



Conchological Section, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Hanson, P. Treschow. Untersuchungen iiber den Magnetismus der Erde von 

 Christopher Hansteen. Uebersetzt von P. Treschow Hanson. les 

 Tbeil. Christiania, 1819. From the University of Norway. 

 Harting, Jas. Edmund. The Birds of Middlesex. London, 1866. From the 



Subscribers of the Library Fund. 

 Hartmann. System der Gasteropoden Europa's. Voith, system der Weich- 



thiere. 1 vol., 12mo. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Haughton, Rev. Samuel. On some points in tlie Muscular Anatomy of the 

 Marsupials. 8vo tract. From the Author. 

 On the change of Eccentricity of the Earth's Orbit, regarded as a cause of 



change of climate. 8vo tract. From the Author. 

 Notes on Mineralogy. 8vo tract. From the Author. 

 On the Chemical and Mineralogical Composition of the Dhurmalla Meteoric 



Stone. 8vo tract. From the Author. 

 Notes on Animal Mechanics. 8vo Tract. From the Author. 

 Essay on Comparative Petrology. By M. J. Durocher. Translated by the 

 Rev. Samuel Haughton, M. D. 8vo tract. From the Translator. 

 Hanley, Sylvanus. An illustrated, enlarged, and English edition of Lamarck'a 



Species of Shells. By Sylvanus Hanley. Presented by the Author. 

 Hayes, Dr. I. I. The Open Polar Sea : a narrative of a voyage of discovery 




270 DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



towards the North Pole, in the schooner United States. 8vo. New York, 



1867. From the Author. 

 Hedley, J. H. Anvisning til hurtigog grundig at lare Det engelske Sprog. 



Bergen, 1864. From the Museum at Bergen. 

 Herbigny. Dictionaire d'histoire naturelle, que concerne les Testaceis ou les 



Coquillages de iler de Terre et d'Eau-douce. Par M. I'Abbe Favart 



d'Herbigny. 3 Vols., 12mo. Paris, 1775. Deposited by George W. 



Tryon, Jr. 

 Herbst's Conchylien, 8vo. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Hewiston, \Vm. C. Exotic Butterflies. Parts 61 — 64. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Hogg on the Microscope. 8vo. London, 1859. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Hooker. See Bentham. 

 Humbert, M, A. Description d'un nouveau genre de Mollusque pulmon^ ter- 



restre de Ceylon. From the Author. 

 Note sur la Nidification de TOrthotomus longicauda, G. M. From the 



Author. 

 Sur Pharmarion, Triboniophorus et Vaginula. Presented through the 



Conchological Section, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Jan, M. le Prof. Iconographie generale des Ophidiens. Par 19rne to 22me 



Livrs. Paris, Dec, 1866. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Jani Planci ariminensis de conchis Minos notis venetus. 4to. 1739. Deposited 



by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 •Jauson, Christopher. Fraa Bygdom Kjobenhavn. 1866. From the Author. 

 Jefireys, John Gwyn, Esq. A Supplement to the Synopsis of Testaceous Pneu- 



monabranchous Mollusca of Great Britain. Presented by the Author, 



through the Conchological Section. 

 Report on Dredging among the Hebrides. Presented bj- the Author, 



through the Conchological Section. 

 British Conchology ; or, an account of the Mollusca which now inhabit the 



British Isles and the surrounding seas. 3 Vols., 8vo. London, 1865. 



From Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Epitome of a Lecture delivered by J. Gwyn Jeffreys on the 6th of January, 



1863, on the Glacial Epoch. Presented by the Author, through the 



Conchological Section. 

 On an abnormal form of Cyathina Smithii. Presented by the Author, 



through the Conchological Section. 

 On the Origin of Species, and Report on Shetland Dredgings. Presented 



by the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Remarks on Stilifer, a genus of Quasiparasitic Mollusks, with particulars 



of the European Species. Presented by the Author, through the Con- 

 chological Section. 

 Report of the result of deep sea dredging in Zetland, with a notice of 



several species of Mollusca new to science or to the British Isles. Pre- 

 sented by the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 On a new British species of Rissoa. By E. Waller, Esq. Report on Shet- 

 land Dredgings. Presented by the Author, through the Conchological 



Section. 

 Notes on British Mollusca, in answer to Mr. William Clark's Remarks on 



Gleanings in British Conchology, Presented by the Author, through 



the Conchological Section. 

 Remarks on Mr. M. Andrews' " Notes on the comparative size of Marine 



Mollusca in various latitudes of the European seas." Presented by the 



Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 The upper Tertiary Fossils of Uddevalla, in Sweden. Presented by the 



Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Report on dredging among the Channel Isles. Presented by the Author, 



through the Conchological Sectiun. 

 Report of a Committee for dredging on the North and East Coasts of Scot- 

 land. Presented by the Author, through the Conchological Section. 




DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 271 



Jefifreys and Damon. Conchological Paj ers. 1 Vol., 8vo. Presented through 



the Conchological Section, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Johns, C. A., Rev. British Birds in their Haunts. London, 18G2. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Johnston, Geo. An Introduction to Conchology. By Geo. Johnston. 8vo. 



London, 1860. Presented by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., through tlie Concho- 

 logical Section. 

 Jordan, Alexi. Icones ad Floram Europ<e-novo fundamento instaurandam 



spectantes auctoribus Alexi Jordan et Julio Fourreau. From the Authors. 

 Jorden, Henry K. A Catalogue of British Mollusca, compiled from Vols. 1, 2 



and 3 of British Conchology. Presented by the Author, through the 



Conchological Section. 

 Jukes, J. Beete. Additional Notes on the Grouping of the Rocks of North De- 

 von and West Somerset. Dublin, IStiT. From Dr. Leidy. 

 Karsten, H. Florae Columbia Terrarumque adiacentium specimina selecta. 



Edidit H. Karsten. Tomi 2, Fasc. Quartus. Berolini, 1866. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Kekull, Aug. Lehrbuch der OrganischenChemie oder der Chemie der Kohlen- 



stofiVerbindungen. Dritter Band, Erste Lief. Erlangen, 1867. Fi-om the 



Library Fund. 

 Keller, Dr. Ferdinand. The Lake Dwellings of Switzerland and other parts of 



Europe. 8vo. London, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Kerr, W. C. Report of the progress of the Geological Survey of North Caro- 

 lina, 1866. Raleigh, 1867. From the Author. 

 King, C. W. Antique Gems; their Origin, Uses and Value. By Rev. C. W. 



King, M.A. London, 1860. From the Library Fund. 

 Kingsley, Charles. Glaucus, or the Wonders of the Shores. By Chas. Kingsley. 



Boston, 1855. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Kirchhoff, Alfred. Die Idee der Pflanzen Metamorphose bei Wolff und bei 



Gothe. 4to Tract. Berlin, 1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Kock, Jos. Synopsis Florae Germanics et Helveticfe. Auctore D. Guil. Dan. 



Jos. Kock. Editio Tertia, pars prima et secunda. Lipsiee, 1857. From 



the subscribers to the Library Fund. 

 Koch, Dr. Ludwig. Die Arachniden-Familie der Drassideu. 6es Heft. N urn- 

 berg, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Kunst, P. J. An American Dictionary of the English and German Languages. 



By P. J. Kunst. Harrisburg, 1850. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Lamarck, M. Sur la Division des Mollusques acephales Conchyliferes. Par 



M. Lamarck. 4to. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Lapchine, Professeur. Discussion sur les Vents de Kharkofifet description d'uii 



nouvel Animographie. Par le Kharkov. 1800. From the University 



of Kharkoff. 

 On the Climate of the Province of Kharkoff. From the University of 



Kharkoff. 

 Report on the foreign voyage of M. Lapchine, Professeur of the University 



of Kharkoff. Kharkolf, 1862. From the University of Kharkofi". 

 Experiments in Galvanism made at the University of Kharkoff. From the 



University of Kharkoff. 

 On the different Phenomena of Nature. Conversations with young ladies 



of the Senior Class of the High School. Kharkoff; 1861. From the 



University of Kharkoff. 

 Lea, Isaac. Index to Volumes 1 to II of Observations on the Genus Unio. 



Philadelphia, 1867. From the Author. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio, &c. By Isaac Lea. 4to. 1866. Vol. 2. 



From the Author. 

 Le Hon, H. L''Honime Fossile en Europe, son Industrie ses Mceurs ses Oeuvres 



d'Art. Bruxelles, 1857. From the Library Fund. 




272 DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



Leonhard. The Western Coast of Africa. 8vo. Philadelphia, 1833. From 

 Prof. S. S. Haldeman. 



Lesser. Frederick Christian Lesser'g Testaceo Theologia. 12mo. Leipzig, 

 1756. Deposited by Geo. W. Trjou, Jr. 



Lichtenstein. Van den sepienmit Krallen von Herrn Lichtenstein. 4to. pam- 

 phlet. Deposi'ed by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Lindley, John, and Thos. Moore. The Treasury of Botany. Edited by John 

 Lindley and Thomas Moore. 2 Vols., 12mo. London, 1866. From the 

 Library Fund. 



Loudon's Encyclopedia of Plants. New Impression. London, 1866. From 

 the subscribers to the Library Fund. 



Loven, S. Berattelse om flamstegen i Molluskernas, Crustaceernas och de 

 logre skelettlosa djurens Naturhistoria under Aren 1845 — 1849 till K. 

 Vetenskaps Akademien af gifven af S. Loven, vo Stockholm, 1852. De- 

 posited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Lowe, R. T. Two Memoirs of the Ferns, Flowers, Plants, and Land Shells of 

 Madeira and Porto Santo. By R. T. Lowe, M.A. 1851. Deposited by 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Lubbock, John. Pre-historic Times, as illustrated by Ancient Remains, and 

 the manners and customs of modern Savages. By John Lubbock, F.R.S. 

 London, 1865. From the Library Fund. 



Ludwig, Dr. Die Arachniden Familie der Drassiden. Koch 2es to 5es Heftes. 

 Nurnberg. 1866. From the Library Fund. 



Lyman, B. S. Against the supposed former Plasticity of the Puddingstone 

 Pebbles of Purgator}-, Rhode Island. From the Author. 



McAndrew, Robert. On the Geographical Distribution of Testaceous Mollusca 

 in the North Atlantic and neighboring seas. Presented by the Author, 

 through the Conchological Section. 

 Notes on the Mollusca observed during a short visit to the Canary and 

 Madeira Islands, &c., in the months of April and May, 1852. Presented 

 by the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Notes on the distribution and range in depth of Mollusca and other marine 

 Animals observed on the coasts of Spain, Portugal, Barbary, Malta, and 

 Southern Italy in 1849. London, 1850. Presented by the Author, 

 through the Conchological Section. 

 Report on Marine Testaceous Mollusca of the North-east Atlantic and 

 neighboring seas. Presented by the Author, through the Conchological 

 Section. 



Marcou, M. Jules. La faune primordiale dans le pays de Galles et la geologie 

 Californienne, sur divers armes, outils et traces de I'homme Americain, 

 sur le Dyas. Par M. Jules Marcou. 3 pamphlets. From the Author. 



Marsh, Prof. 0. C. Notice of a new Genus of fossil Sponges from the Lower 

 Silurian. From the Author. 



Maunder, Samuel. The Treasury of Natural History. By Saml. Maunder. 6th 

 Ed., 12mo. London, 1862. From the Library Fund 



Martens, Von G. von. Ueber die Ordnung der Bander an den Schaalen Mehre- 

 rer Landschnecken. From S. S. Haldeman, Esq. 



Meek, F B., and F. V. Hayden. Palaeontology of the Upper Missouri. Inverte- 

 brates. Part 1. Washington City, 1865. From the Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution. 



Meek, F. B., and Wm. M. Gabb. Geological Survey of California. Palaeontol- 

 ogy. Vol. 1, 4to. 1864. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. 8vo. Vol. 5, Parts 2 and 3. From 

 the Survey. 



Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. Palaeontologia Indica 3, 10 — 13. 

 From the Survey. 



Meteorologiske Jagttagelser Paa Christiana Observatorium, 1865. Christiania, 

 1866. From the Observatory. 



Meyer. Palwontographica. Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte der Voiwelt. He- 




DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 273 



rausgegeben von Hermann Von Meyer. Cassel, 18G7. Fiinfzehnter 



Band, Yierte Lief. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Milne-Edwards, Alphonse. Recherches anatomiques et palcontologiques pour 



servir a Thistoire des Oiseaux Fossiles de la France. Livrs. 1 to 10. 



Paris, 1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Molina. Catalogo de los Mohiscos ferrestres y Fluviatiles de la Isla de Cuba 



por Rafael Arango y Molina. Habana, 1865. From the Author, through 



the Conchological Section. 

 Moleschott. Untersuchnngcn zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der Thiere 



10 Band, 3es Heft. Giessen, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Molkenbaur. Bryologia Javanica. Fasc 51, 52. Lugduni-Batavorum, 1866. 



From the Wilson Fund. 

 Moller. Die Abhangigkeit der lusecten vou ihrer Umgebung. Leipzig, 1867. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Montfort. Ilistoire Naturelle generale et particuliere des Mollusqnes. Par 



Denys-Montfort. 4 Vols, in 2. An. 10, 8vo. Deposited by George W. 



Tryon, Jr. 

 Morch. Forty-one works and pamphlets on Conchology. By 0. A. L. Morch. 



From the Author. 

 Moreau de Jonnes, Al. Monograph du Gecko-JIabouia des Antilles. Par Al. 



Moreau de Jonnes. Paris, 1821. From S. S. Haldeman, Esq. 

 Moricand. Coquilles Fluviatiles et terrestres. 1837-38. Presented through 



the Conchological Section, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Mortillet, Gab'l. de. Materiaux pour I'histoire positive et philosophique de 



I'Homrae. Seconde Annee, No. 7, to Troisieme Annee, No. 3. From 



the Library Fund 

 Mosely, H. On the Geometrical Forms of Turbinated and Discoid Sliells. By 



the Rev. H. Mosely, M.A. 4to pamphlet. Deposited by George W. 



Tryon, Jr. 

 MuUer. Vermium terrestrium et fluviatilium sen Animalium iufusorlorum 



Helminthicorum et testaceorum. Auctore Othone F. JluUer. Havniae et 



Lipsite, 1773. De])osited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Plates of MoUuscA Zoologire Danicje. 0. T. Muller. 36 tabulae a-nere. 



Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Murray. Tratado de Farmacia y Farmacognosia, por Carlos Murray. Buenos 



Ayres, 1866. From the Author. 

 Neilreich. Nachtrilge zur Flora von Nieder-Oesterreich von Dr. August Neil- 



reich. Wien, 1860. From the Author. 

 Newberry, J. S.. M.D. Description of the Fossil Plants from the Chinese Coal- 

 bearing Rocks. From the Author. 

 Newman, Edward. A Dictionary of British Birds. Reprinted from Montagu's 



Ornithological Dictionary. London, 1869. From the subscribers to 



the Library Fund. 

 Owen, David Dale. ISecond Report of a Geological Reconnoissance of the 



Middle and Southern Counties of Arkansas. 8vo. Philadelphia, I860. 



From Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Owen, Richard. A complete collection of the various papers on Geology. By 



Richard Owen. 1838 — 1845. From Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Paleontologie Francaise Terrain Jnrassique. Livr. 10, 11, 12. Ter. Cretace, 



Livrs. 22 et 23. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Papers relating to Foreign Affairs accompanying the Annual Message of the 



President to the first session of the 39th Congress. Parts 1, 2, 3, 4. 



Washington, 1866. From the Department. 

 Pfeiffer, Dr. Louis. Malakozoologische Blatter. Herausgegeben von Dr. Louis 



Pfeiffer. 13 Band, 7 — 9 Bog. Cassel. From the subscribers to the 



Library Fund. 

 Novitates Conchological. Supplement 3. 1 Abtheilung, Land Conchylien. 



Herausgegeben von Dr. Louis Pfeiffer. Cassel. Also Meeres-Conchy- 



1« 




274 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



lien, 11 uad 12 Lief. Von Dr. W. Dunker. Monographie Molluskgat- 



tung Venus. Von Dr. Ed. Romer. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Pictet, F. J. Melanges Paleontologiques. 1, 2 et 3 Livrs. Bale et Geneve. 



1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Nouveaux documents sur les Limites de la Periode Jurassique et de la 



Periode Cretacee. Geneve, 1867. From the Author. 

 Playfair, Lieut. Col. R. Lambtrt. The Fishes of Zanzibar, — Acanthopterygii. 



Pharyngognathi, etc. 4to. London. 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Prestwich, Jos. Notes on further discoveries of Flint Implements in Beds of 



Post Pliocene Gravel and Clay. Presented by the Author, through the 



Conchological Section. 

 On the occurences of the Cyrena fluminalis, together with Marine Shells 



of recent species in beds of sand and gravel over beds of boulder-clay, 



near Hull. Presented by the Author, through the Conchological Sec- 

 tion. 

 Price, Eli K. History of the Penn Squares. From the Author. 

 Prime, Temple. Monograph of American Corbiculadae. By Temple Prime. 



Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 145. Washington, 1865. From 



the Smithsonian Institution, through the Conchological Section. 

 Putnam, G. P. Book-buyer's Manual, 8vo. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Quetelet, Era, M^moires sur la temperature de I'Air a Bruxelles. 4to tract. 



Bruxelles, 1867. From the Author. 

 Rabenhorst, Ludovico. Flora Europaa Algarum Aquse dulcis et submarinse. 



Sectio 1 et 2. Algas Phycochromaceas complectens. Lipsiie, 1865. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Rapport d'une Commission composee de MM. de Kercado, Lespinasse, et Ch. 



Des Moulins, sur le livre du Frassier de M. le Cle. Leonce de Lamber- 



tye. From M. Des Moulins. 

 Rathke. Untersuchungen iiber die Entwickelung und den Korperbau der 



Krokodile Herausgegeben von Wilhelm vou Wittich. Braunschweig. 



1866. From the Library Fund. 



Report of the Secretary of the Navy, with an Appendix. Dec, 1867. Washing- 

 ton, 1867. From the Secretary. 

 Report on Scientific Nomenclature. New Haven, 1845. Deposited by George 



W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey for 1864. Washington, 1866. 



From the Survey. 

 Reeve, Lovell. Conchologia Iconica. Tellina, Anodon. Parts 250 and 253, to 



260—265. London, 1867. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Elements of Conchology. By Lovell Reeve. 2 Vols., 8vo. London, I860. 



Presented by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., through the Conchological Section. 

 The Land and Fresh-water Mollusks indigenous to, or naturalized in, the 



British Isles. By Lovell Reeve. London. 1863. Presented by Geo. 



W. Tryon, Jr., through the Conchological Section. 

 Reuter, F Observations Meteorologiques taites a Luxembourg. Luxemburg, 



1867. From the Author. 



Rigacci. Catalogo delle Conchiglie component! la collezione Rigacci. Parte 

 Prima. Delle Conchiglie Viventi. By Jean Rigacci. 8vo., 56 pp. Rome. 

 1866. From the Author. 



Robinson See Grote. 



Romer. See Dunker. 



Roth, J. R. Coquilles Terrestres et Fluviatiles. Par Prof. J. R. Roth. Zurich, 

 1861. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Rue, Warren de la, Balfour Stewart, and Benj. Lowry. First Series on the na- 

 'ture of Sun Spots. London, 1865. From the Authors. 



Rumphius, Geo. Everhardus. D'Amboinsche Rariteitkamer behelzende eene 

 Beschryvinge von Allerhande Zooweeke als harde schoolvisschen door 

 Geo. Ev. Rumphius. Folio. Amsterdam, 1705. Deposited by Geo. W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 275 



Amboinsche raritaten Kammer. Wien, 1766., Deposited by George W. 



Tryon, Jr. 



Ruschenberger, W. S. W. Mollusca. Elements of Conchology. By W. S. W. 



Ruschenberger, M.D. New York, 1843. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Contributions to the Statistics of Human Growth. From the Author. 



Rye, E. C. British Beetles: an introduction to the study of our indigenous 



Coleoptera. London, 1866. From the subscribers to the Library Fund. 



Savigny. MoUusques de I'Egypt. Atlas Folio. Deposited by George W. 



Tryon, Jr. 

 Schlagintweit, Emil. Die Gottesurtheile der Indier. Munchen, 1866. From 



the Author. 

 Schlagentweit-Sakiinliinski, Hermann von. Die wichtigsten Hohenbestim- 

 mungen in Indien, in Himalaya, in Tibet und in Turkistan zusammen- 

 gestellt. Miinchcn, 1867. From the Author. 

 Schneider, Anton. Monographie der Nematodeu. Von Anton Schneider. 4to. 



Berlin, 1866. From the subscribers to the Library Fund. 

 Schroter, J. S. Versuch einer systematischen Abhandlung liber die Erdkon- 

 chylien. 12mo. Berlin, 1771. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Neue Litteratur und Beytrage zur Kenntnitz der Naturgeschichte vorzu- 

 glich der Conchylien und Fossilien. 4 Vols., 8to. Leipzig, 1784-87. 

 Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Schweinfurth, Dr. Geo. Beitrag zur Flora Jilthiopiens. Iste Abth. Berlin, 



1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Slater, Philip Lutley and Osbert Salvin. Exotic Ornithology. Parts 2 and 



3. London, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Slater, Philip L. Nitsch's Pterylography, translated from the German. Lon- 

 don. Published for the Ray Society, 1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Guide to the Gardens of the Zoological Society of London, 1866. From 

 S. S. Haldeman, Esq. 

 Scoperta di Nuovi Pteropodi Fossili nella base Marnosa del Monte Mario. 8vo. 



pamphlet. Rome, 1866. From Jean Regacci. 

 Scudder, S. H. An Inquiry into the Zoological Relations of the first dis- 

 covered traces of Fossil Neuropterous Insects in North America. By 

 S. H. Scudder. From the Author. 

 Secretary of the Navy, Report of the. From the Secretary. 



Navy Register of the United States for the year 1867. Washington, 1867. 

 From the Hon. Secretary of the Navy. 

 Seven Reports of the American Bureau of Mines. New York, 1866. From 



the Bureau. 

 Sexe, S. A. Maerker efter en listed i omegnen af Hardangerfjordea of S. A. 



Sexe. Christiana, 1866. From the University of Norway. 

 Shells and their inmates. r2mo. London, 1841. Deposited by George W. 



Tryon, Jr. 

 Shuckard, W. E. British Bees. London, 1866. From the subscribers to the 



Library Fund. 

 Sixteen Theological Medical Theses presented to the Catholic University of 



Louvain, 1865. From the University. 

 Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. 14. "Washington, 1865. From 



the Smithsonian Institute. 

 Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. 6 and 7. Washington, 1867. 



From the Smithsonian Institute. 

 Souleyet. MoUusques der Voyages de la Bonite. Par MM. Eydoux et Sou- 



leyet. 8vo., with Atlas Folio. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Sowerby, Jr., G. B. A Conchological Manual. By G. B. Sowerby, Jr. 1st 

 and 2d editions. London, 1839 — 1842. Presented by Geo. W. Tryon, 

 Jr., through the Conchological Section. 

 Sowerby, G. B. Illustrated Index of British Shells, containing figures of all 

 the recent species. By G. B. Sowerby, F.L.S. London, 1859. De- 

 posited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 




276 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Stalsberg, Rik F. TJdsight over de vaesentligste Forbedringer red Jerntil- 



Turkningen ide seneste. Christiania, 1866. From the University of 



Norway. 

 Stabile, G. Fauna Elveticse. Delle Conchiglie Terrestri e fluviaJi del Lu- 



ganese. Lugano, 1845. From the Author. 

 Prospetto sistematico statistico dei Molluschi terrestre e fluviali viventi 



nel territorio di Lugano. Milano, 1859. From the Author. 

 Description dequelques Coquilles nouvelles on pen connues. Paris, 1859. 



From the Author. 

 Stearns, R. E. C. Conchological Memoranda, No. 2. 8vo. tract. From the 



Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Stein, Dr. Friedrich. Der Organismus der lufusionsthiere nach eigenen 



Forschungen in systematischer Reihenfolge bearbeitet. 2 Abtheilung. 



Leipzig, 1867. From Mrs. Lucy W. Say. 

 Stimpson, Dr. Wm. Researches upon the Hydrobiina; and allied forms. 



Washington, 1865. From the Smithsonian Institute. 

 Synopsis of the Marine invertebrate of Grand Manau. By Wm. Stimpson. 



1853. Deposited by Geo. W.Tryon, Jr. 

 Stonyhurst College Observatory. Results of Meteorological and Magnetical 



Observation. 1865. From the Observatory. 

 Storer, D. H. A History of the Fishes of Massachusetts. Cambridge and 



Boston, 1867. From the Author. 

 Sumner, Hon. Chas. Speech of the Hon. Chas. Sumner, of Massachusetts, on 



the cession of Russian America to the United States. Washington, 



1867. From Hon. Chas. Sumner. 

 Surgeon General. War Department. Office Washington, July, 1867. Circular 



No. 7. A Report on Amputations at the Hip Joint in Military Surgery. 



Washington, 1867. From the Surgeon General. 

 Svar paa Tavleregningsopgaverne i Regnebog for Skoleungdommea af Ber- 

 gen, 1861. From the Museum at Bergen. 

 Tate, Ralph. A plain and easy account of the Land and Fresh-water Mol- 



lusks of Great Britain. By Ralph Tate. London, 1866. From Geo. 



W. Tryon, Jr., through the Conchological Section. 

 Tennent, Sir J. E. Sketches of the Natural History of Ceylon. By Sir J. 



Emerson Tennent. London, 1861. From the subscribers to the Li- 

 brary Fund. 

 The International Horticultural Exhibition and Botanical Congress. Report 



of Proceedings. London, la66. From Dr. Asa Gray. 

 Tillesii, G. Th. De Aegocerote Argalide Pallasii ovis domesticae matre, brevis 



disquisitio. By S. S. Haldeman, Esq. 

 Troschel, F. H. Das Gebiss der Schnecken zur Begrundung einen Natur- 



lichen Classification. By F. H. Troschel. From the Author. 

 Sixteen pamphlets on Conchology. By F. H. Troschel. From the Author. 

 De Limnaiaceis seu de Gasteropodis pulmonatis quae nostris in Aquis 



vivunt. Auctor F. H. Troschel. Berolini. 183-1. Deposited by Geo. 



W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Troost, Dr. Report on the Geology of Tennessee. Presented by S. S. Halde- 

 man, Esq. 

 Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. A Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting the 



United States. Parts 2, 3 and 4. Philadelphia, 1867. From the Con- 

 chological Section. 

 Tachudi, J. J. Von. Reisen durch Sud Amerika. Zweiter Band. Leipzig, 



1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Tuckerman, Edw. Lichenes of the Hawaiian Islands. Cambridge, 1867. 



From the Author. 

 Turnbull, Wm. P. The Birds of East Lothian, and a portion of the adjoining 



Counties. Glasgow, 1867. From the Author. 

 Van dar Hoeven. Bijdragea Tot de oalleedkundige kennis aangaande Nan- 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. -77 



tilus Pompilius. L. door J. Van der Hoeveu. Deposited by Geo. W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 

 Verzeicbniss von 9412 Aequatorial-sternen, V. Supplement Band zu den An- 

 neben der Muncbener Siernwarte. Miinchen, 1866. From the Observa- 

 tory. 

 Villa, E. G. B. Sui Coleotteri del Biellese indicati da Eugenio Sella osserva- 



zioni del Fratelli. From the Author. 

 Di Alcuni Marml e Roccie Delia Valtellina, Le Roccie dei Dintorno di 



Morbogno. From the Author. 

 Vogelsang, H. Philosophie der Geologic und Mikroskopisclie Gesteinsstudieu. 



Boun, 1867. From the Librarj- Fund. 

 Von Buch, Leopold. Leopold Von Buch's Gesemmelte Schriften. Herausge- 



geben von J. Ewald, J. Roth und H. Eck. ler Band. Berlin, 1867. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Wallace, Alfred R., F.Z S. List of the Land Shells collected in the Malay 



Archipelago, with descriptions of the new species. Presented by the 



Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Watson, Rev. John Selby. The Reasoning Power in Animals. London, 1867. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Webster, N. An American Dictionary of the English Language. By Noah 



Webster, LL D. Springfield, Mass., 1866. Deposited by George W. 



Tryon, Jr. 

 Weiss, Ch. E. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Feldspathbildung. Haarlem, 1866. 



From the Dutch Society of Sciences. 

 Wetherill, Chas. M. Experiments on Itacolumite. From the Author. 

 White, C. A., M.D., and H. St. John. State Geological Survey of Iowa. Pre- 

 liminary Notice of New Genera and Species of Fossils. From the 



Authors. 

 Whitfield, R. P. Observations on the Internal Appendages of the Genus 



Atrypa. From the Author. 

 Wimmer, Dr. F. Salices Europnea. Recensuit et descripsit Dr. Fridericus 



Wimmer. Vratislaviie, 1866. From the subscribers to the Library 



Fund. 

 Winchell, Alex., A.M. Man the last Term of the Organic Series. Ann Arbor, 



1867. From the Author. 

 Synoptical View of the Geological Succession of Organic Type. Ann 



Arbor, 1867, From the Author. 

 Wood, Rev. J. G. Routledge's illustrated Natural History of Man. Part 1. 



London, 1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Wood, W. General Conchology, or a description of Shells. By W. Wood, 



F.R S. and F.L.S. London, 1853. Deposited by Geo W. tryon, Jr. 

 Index Testaceologicus. A new edition, edited by Sylvanus Hanley. 8vo. 



London. Deposited by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 WoodhuU, Alfred A. Catalogue of the United States Army Medical Museum. 



Prepared under the direction of the Surgeon General U. S. Army. 



Washington, 1866. From the Surgeon General. 

 Woodward, S. P. A Manual of the Mollusca. I'imo. London, 1861. Pre- 

 sented by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., through the Conchological Section. 

 Wolf, J. Zoological Sketches. Parts and 10. From the Library Fund. 

 Wright, E. Percival, M.D. On a new Genus of Teredinina\ From the 



Author. 

 Wyman, Jeffries. Observations and Experiments on Living Organisms in 



Heated Water. From the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Zaaiger. Untersnchuugen ueber die Form des Beckens Javanischer Frauen. 



Haarlem, 1866. Erom the Dutch Society of Sciences. 

 Zelger von, Carl. Geognostische Wanderungen ira Gebietc der Trias Frank- 

 ens. Wurzburg, 1867. From the Library Fund. 




278 



SUBSCRIPTIONS TO THE BUILDING FUND. 



SUBSCRIPTIONS TO THE BUILDING FUND. 



Lewis Audenried S 



Baeder & Adamson 



John B. Budd 



Adolph E. Borie 



Matthew Baird 



Clement Biddle 



Isaac Barton 



John Baird 



C. H. Borie 



Wm. Bucknell , 



John A. Brown 



Alfred Uope 



Geo. W. Childs 



Chas. S. Coxe 



F. R. Cope 



T. P. Cope 



Jay Cooke 



E. W. Clarke & Co 



Wm Camac 



J. G. Fell 



A. H. Franciscus 



John Gibson, Son & Co 



J. S. Haines 



Miss Jane R. Haines 



Jos. Harrison, Jr 



Samuel Jeanes 



Joshua T. Jeanes , 



Joseph Jeanes 



Fred. Klett 



Charles Lennig, a tract of land, 

 from which $2,000 have already 



taeen realized, estimated at 



Joseph S. Lovering 



Isaac Lea 



J. B. Lippincott k Co 



Elias D. Kennedy 



H. P. McKeau 



Wm. G. Moorhead 



Massey, Huston & Co 



Wistar Morris 



Horstmann & Co 



Thomas Potter 



John Rice 



Ed. Roberts 



S. J. Reeves 



Thomas Sparks 



Thos. A. Scott 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr 



Morris, Tasker & Co 



Wm. S. Vaux 



S S. White 



W. P. Wilstach 



S. Morris Wain 



A. Whitney &; Sons 



Wood, Morrell & Co 



1000 I. V. Williamson. 

 lOOOlW. Weightman... 



lOOOiA. J. Antelo 



1000;John Bohlen 



1000 

 1100 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 



Miss Bohlen 



W. A. Blanchard 



Alexander Biddle 



AYm. B. Bement 



Wm. M. Baird 



lOOUlThos. A. Biddle 



lOOOJStephen Colwell 



1500 Caleb Cope 



lOOOJMiss R. A. Cope 



lOOO'Lewis Cooper. 



lOOOlThomas Clyde 



1000|a. Campbell 



lOOoJA. J. Drexel 



lOOOJR. I. Dobbins 



lO'JOi James Dougherty 



1000|G. W. Fahuestock 



10U0|R. II. Gratz 



lOOoll. P. Hutchinson 



1000|H. H. Houston 



1000|Miss Ann Haines 



lOOOiH. C. Lea 



1000| Joshua Lippincott 



1000 Charles Macalester - 



1 000 i Benjamin Marshall 



1000 McCallum, Crease & Sloan. 



H. C. Oram & Co 



Joseph F. Page 



2100 French, Richards & Co 



1000 Merrick & Sons 



1000 W. S. Stewart 



1000 Thomas Smith 



lOOOiHenry Seybert 



lOOOjCharles E. Smith 



lOOo! Charles Taylor 



1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 

 1000 



J. Edgar Thomson 



Geo. F. Tyler 



Samuel Welsh 



Henry Winsor 



J. A.'^Wright 



Ed. S. Wheleu 



Isaac S. Waterman 



John Welsh 



Rockhill & Wilson 



Robert Wood & Co 



Rich. D. Wood, a certificate for 

 $500 of Schuylkill Navigation 

 Co., loan of 1882, valued at 



D. B. Cummins 



C. P. Bayard 



G. S. Benson 



lOQOlJ. E. Caldwell. 



1000 

 1000 

 500 

 500 

 501) 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 oOu 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 

 500 



350 

 300 

 250 

 250 

 250 




SUBSCRIPTIONS TO THE BUILDING FUND. 



279 



Ed. S. Clark 250inenrv B. Benners 100 



Jos. W. Drexel 2.'^o|.Joel J. Baily , 100 



Thomas Earp 250 



Frederic Graff. 250 



Frank Haseltine 250 



James C. Hand 250 



B. Hammitt 250 



Wm. Hay 250 



E. C. Knight 250 



J. E. Kingsley 250 



Jos. S. Levering-, Jr 250 



Joseph Lea 250 



Francis W. Lewis 250 



John Livezey 250 



Joshua Lippincott 250 



Richard M.Marshall 250 



Israel Morris 250 



Samuel C. Morton 250 



Charles Magarge 250 



Horace Magee 250JWm. Evans, Jr 



Jas. Ronaldson Magee 250 



C. F. Norton 250 



Joseph Patterson 250 



Moro Phillips 250 



Mrs. Eleanor P. Long 250 



Lawrence S. Pepper 250 



George S. Pepper 250 



Evan Randolph 250 



Charles Spencer 250 



P. W. Sheafer 250 



John T. Taitt 250 



John B. Trevor 250 



George Vaux 250 



Mrs E. H. Vaux 250 



Wm. Welsh 250 



Morris Wheeler & Co 250 



Charles Wheeler 250 



A. Whilldin 250 



Wm. R. White, Jr 250 



Joseph Wharton 250 



Benjamin Bullock 200 



Atherton Blight ; 200 



Cash, per Dr. Chas. Shaefi'er 200 



John C.Davis 200 



Charles Humphreys 200 



R. Peterson 200 



J. D. Rosengarten 200 



Benj.H. Shoemaker 200 



Robert Shoemaker 200 



David Stuart 200 



G. B. Wright 200 



Chas. J. Allen 100 



Josepli B. Akemus 100 



Ahr. Barker 100 



Ch. S. Bokcr 100 



S. B. Barcroft 100 



Alexander Benson 100 



Charles N. Bancker 100 



John J. Boric 100 



Edw. C. Biddle 100 



Eugene Borda 100 



David S. Brown 100 



A. Benson. Jr 100 



F. L. Bodine 100 



Bowen & Fox 100 



Robert Carter 100 



James Creiahton 100 



Andrew C.Craig 100 



Charles C. Cresson 100 



Lemuel Coffin. 100 



C. Colket 100 



Kdmund Draper 100 



Mark Devine ... 100 



Ferdinand J. Dreer 100 



J. Coleman Drayton 100 



Joseph H.Dulles 100 



100 



Miss Elizabeth R. Fisher 100 



V. L. Elwyn 100 



G. Emerson 100 



Charles Ellis 100 



Saml. M. Fox 100 



J. Edward Farnum 100 



J. M.Foltz 100 



C. H. Garden 100 



Philip C. Garrett 100 



Constant Guillou 100 



L. A. Godev 100 



Daniel Haddock, Jr 100 



Harry C. Hart 100 



Wm. H. Hart 100 



C. J. Hoffman 100 



F. A. Hoyt & Bro 100 



E. M. Hopkins 100 



Pemberton S. Hutchinson 100 



George Harding 100 



E. L. Handy 100 



B. A. Hoopes 100 



John Haseltine 100 



C. H. Hutchinson 100 



A. A. Henderson lOO 



Huneker & Brant 100 



John Jordan, Jr 100 



W. P. Jenks 100 



J(dm Krider 100 



John Lambert 100 



Joseph Leidy 100 



Chas. S.Lewis 100 



George T. Lewis 100 



John T. Lewis 100 



J. L. Le Conte 100 



Amos R. Little 100 



W. R. Lejee 100 



J. Dickinson Logan 100 



A. Sidney Logan 100 



Benj. V. 'Mar.sh 100 




280 



SUBSCRIPTIOXS TO THE BUILDING FUND. 



John McAllister, Jr 100 



Joseph Wm. Miller 100 



J.B.Myers 100 



Nathan .Myers 100 



Jos. B. Myers 100 



Wm. L. Mactier 100 



Isaac P. Morris 100 



Matthews & Moore 100 



Wm. Musser 100 



John B. Mellor 100 



Wm. Mellor 100 



G. H. Newhall , 100 



Charles Xorris 100 



Wm. F. Norris 100 



G. W. Xorris 100 



John S. Newbold 100 



Robert E. Peterson 100 



G. F. Peabody 100 



John B. Parker 100 



Samuel Powel 100 



Charles W. Poultney 100 



J. S. Phillips.. 100 



Philip Physick Peace lOf 



E. Coleman Peace 100 



James W. Queen 100 



R. E. Rogers 100 



Richard Richardson 100 



Wm'. Rovdaud & Co 100 



Evans Rogers 100 



C. H. Rogers 100 



Solomon W. Roberts 100 



Josiah Reigel 100 



Samuel R. Shipley 100 



Charles Santee 100 



Louis Starr 100 



Daniel Smith, Jr 100 



Ed. A. Souder & Co 100 



Jos. Scattergood 100 



Geo. J. Scattergood 100 



Wm. Struthers 100 



Charles L. Sharpless 100 



Wm. H. Sowers loO 



Aubrey H.Smith 100 



J. Rinaldo Sank 100 



J. H. Slack 100 



W. L. Schafler 100 



Charles Smith 100 



John Supplee 100 



J. D. Sergeant 100 



Joseph P.Smith 100 



James Spear 100 



W. P. Tatham 100 



Samuel B. Thomas 100 



B. T. Tredick 100 



Wm. P. Turnbull 100 



Wm. G. Thomas lOo 



Alfred Yezin 100 



Henrv A. Veziu • 100; 



H. M' Watts lOoi 



Wm. S.Wilson 100 



Ellwood Wilson 100 



Joseph Walton 100 



Mrs. C. S. Wurts 100 



Richard Wood 100 



John Welsh, Jr 100 



MitHin Wistar 100 



Ellis Yarnall 100 



James T. Young 100 



Sundry small subscriptions 128 



Moses Brown oO 



H. Bumm 50 



Jos. A. Clay 50 



Charles Cabot 50 



George Cromelien 50 



E. Durand 50 



R. D 50 



John W. Field 50 



R. Guillou 50 



James Harper 50 



Isaac Hays 50 



E. H 50 



J. H. Hutchinson 50 



0. A. Judsou 50 



H C. Kennedy 50 



Chs. M. Leiseuriug 50 



Levi Morris 50 



Wm. V. McKean 50 



Merrihew & Son 50 



Chs. iS'orris, Jr 50 



Benj. Orne 50 



P. S. Peterson 50 



C. J. Price 50 



E. F. Rivinus 50 



E. L. Reakirt 50 



John Turner 50 



J. B. Yandusen 50 



Chs. S. Wurts 50 



Alexander Wilcocks 50 



F. L. Williams 50 



Wm. P. Bancroft 25 



Chs. M. Ghriskey 25 



Louis A. Godey 25 



J. R. Goodman 25 



John 0. James 25 



Geo. S. Jones 25 



S. Weir Mitchell 25 



Thomas Meehan 25 



E. M. Needles 25 



John Pearsall , 25 



G. F. Parker 25 



Wm. W. Paul 25 



Geo. A. Smith 25 



T. Guilford Smith 25 



D. L. Woods 25 



Total $108,803 



Aggregate of subscriptions paid 

 \ip to Decem. 31 $93,803 




LIST OF iMEMBERS. 



281 



MEMBERS 



ACADEMY OF NATUllAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA, 



From the origin of the Society to January 1st, 1868. 



Names of members known to be deceased are in italics. Names of life 

 members are preceded by an asterisk (*). Names of members who are not resi- 

 dents of the city are followed by the letters (N.R.) Names of those who were 

 originally elected correspondents, and became members by removal to the city, are 

 followed by (corres.) The names of those who have resigned, or who have for- 

 feited their membership, are not included. Correspondents are regarded as mem- 

 bers when they become permanent residents in the city. 



AUinson, A\ S., M.D., Dec. 1812. 

 Anthony, Thomas, Jan. 1813. 

 Abert, Col. J. J. (N.R.), Oct. 1828. 

 Alden, Charles Henry, June, 1837. 

 *Ashmead, Samuel, Sept. 1839. ' 

 Allen, Nathan, M.D., May, 1841. 

 Ashmead, Samuel B., Jan. 1343. 

 Allen, Wm. H., Aug. 1851. 

 Allen, J. M., M.D., April, 1852. 

 *Ashhurst, Lewis R., May, 1853. 

 Agnew, Wm. G. E. (N.R), May, 1853. 

 Atlee, Walter F., M.D., May, 1857. 

 *Audenreid, Lewis, Feb. 1859. 

 Ashhurst, John, M.D., Oct. 1860. 

 *A3hhurst, Wm. IL, Feb. 1861. 

 Allen, Harrison, M.D., July, 1862. 

 *Austin, John B., Jan. 1867. 

 *Ashhurst, Samuel, M. D., March, 1867. 

 *Ashhurst, Francis, M. D., March, 1867. 

 *Antelo, A. J., Dec. 1867. 



*Barnes, John, M.D. (N.ll.), April, 1812, 

 ^Barton, Edward, M.D., Aug. 1815. 

 •*Brown, Moses, Feb. 1817, 



^Biddle, Nicholas, Jan. 1818. 

 ^Brewer, John M. (corres.), Oct. 1820. 

 Bowen, George T., Nov. 1822. 

 Birch, Wm. Y., Dec. 1823. 

 Bonaparte, Charles L. (X.R.), Feb. 1824. 

 *Bancker, Charles N., April, 1824. 

 *Beck, Charles F., M.D., June, 1827. 

 Bachc, Alex. Dallas (N.R.), Jan. 1829. 

 Bond, Henri/, M.D., Jan. 1830. 

 ^Burrough, Marmaduke, M.D., Nov. 1830. 

 *Bridges, Robert, M.D., Jan. 1835. 

 Bowie, Thomas L., Dec. 1835. 

 Browne, Peter A., May, 1841. 

 *Baird, S. F. (N.R.) (corres.), Aug. 1842. 

 *Biddle, .llexander, Aug. 1848. 

 Barton, T. Pennant (X.R.), April, 1849. 

 Belknap, Henry (N.R.), May, 1849. 

 *Biddle, Clement, May, 1850. 

 Briuton, John H., M.D., June, 1851. 

 *Budd, Chas. H., M.D. (X.R.), Mar. 1852. 

 Boiler, Henry J., April, 1852. 

 Buckley, Ed. S., Maj-, 1852. 

 *Biddle, Henry J., Aug. 1852. 

 Booth, James C, Sept. 1852. 




282 



LIST OF MEMBERS. 



*Biddle, Thomas, May, 1853. 

 *Brown, John A., May, 1853. 

 *J3rown, David S., May, 1853. 

 * Brown, Joseph D., May, 1853. 

 Bullitt, John C, July, 1853. 

 Borda, Eugene, Sept. 1854. 

 *Barton, Isaac, March, 1855. 

 *Barcroft, Stacy B., July, 1855. 

 Brower, Robt. F., M.D. (N.R.}, Nov. 1855. 

 *Brasier, Amable J., March, 1856. 

 Boker, Chas. S., M.D., June, 1856. 

 Binney, W. G., Sept. 1856. 

 Bertholet, P. P., M.D. (N.R.), Mar. 1857. 

 Bennett, Daniel R. (N.R.), Feb. 1858. 

 *Brown, Joseph Johnson, March, 1853. 

 Breed, Rev. Wm. P., June, 1858. 

 *Blight, Atherton, July, 1858. 

 Butler, Pierce, Aug. 1858. 

 *BohIen, John, Feb. 1859. 

 *Biddle, Thos. A., March, 1859. 

 *Budd, John B., June, 1859. 

 Bell, John G. (N.R.), May, 1860. 

 Boiling, Robt., M.D., Nov. 1860. 

 *Bucknell, Wm., March, 1861. 

 Brown, A. D. (N.R.), Nov. 1861. 

 Billings, John S., M.D., Nov. 1862. 

 Briggs, Robert, Jan. 18b4. 

 Bonsall, Chas. F., Nov. 1864. 

 Bryant Henry, M.D. (N.R.), May, 1865. 

 *Browning, Edward, June, 1865. 

 Barnard, Vincent, Sept. 1865. 

 Bready, John E., Sept. 1865. 

 *Burk, Isaac, Dec. 1865. 

 Beadle, Rev. E. R., Jan. 1866. 

 Bland, Jas. H. B., Jan. 1866. 

 Boardman, Rev. Geo. D , April, 1866. 

 Butcher, Henry B., M.D., June, 1866. 

 *Baird, Wm. S., Jan. 1867. 

 Bodine, F. L., Feb. 1867. 

 *Borie, Charles H., Feb. 1867. 

 Bellows, Horace M., M.D., Feb. 1867. 

 Beman, Rev. I. L., March, 1867. 

 *Bohlen, Miss, March, 1867. 

 *Borie, Beauveau, April, 1867. 

 *Borie, Adolph E., April, 1867. 

 *Baird, Matthew, April. 1867. 

 *Benson, Gustavus S., April, 1867. 

 *Blanchard, Wm. A., April, 1867. 



*Beach, 0. Nichols, May, 1867. 

 Bement, Clarence S., May, 1867. 

 *Bayard, C. P., May, 1867. 

 *Baird, John, May, 1867. 

 *Betts, Richard K., Dec. 1867. 

 Brown, Geo. W., M.D., Dec. 1867. 



Correa dc Serra, Joseph, Feb. 1814. 

 Coxe, Alexander S., Feb. 1815. 

 ^ Collins, Zacckeus, 'March, 1815. 

 Cleaver, Isaac, M.D., Jan. 1817. 

 *Clark, Edward (N.R.), Jan. 1817. 

 ^Carmalt, Caleb (N.R ), Aug. 1817. 

 *Coates, Benj. H., M.D., April, 1818. 

 *Carpenter, Geo. TF., July, 1825. 



* Clark, John F., M.D., Feb. 1826. 



* Conrad, Solomon W., March, 1826. 

 Conrad, Timothy A., Jan. 1831. 

 Carson, Joseph, M.D., Oct. 1833. 

 Chase, Ether, M.D., Aug. 1836. 

 *Clay, Joseph A., Aug. 1837. 

 Camac, Wm. M., March, 1839. 

 *Cresson, Chas. C, Sept. 1840. 

 *Cassin, John, Sept. 1842. 

 Curtis, Josiah (N.R.), June, 1843. 

 Cuesta, Fernando de la (N.R ), Nov. 1844. 

 Clemm, Charles (N.R.), Oct. 1847. 

 *Cope, Caleb, Jan. 1848. 



*Cooke, John, Jan. 1848. 

 Cnldcleugh, Robert A., Nov. 1851. 

 *Camac, Wm., M.D., April, 1852. 

 *CIaghorn, James L., July, 1852. 

 *Collct, Mark \V„ M.D., Sept. 1852. 

 Corse, James M., M.D., Nov. 1852. 

 *Cresson, John C, April, 1853. 

 Collins, Percival, Sept. 1853. 

 Cadwalader, Wm., March, 1855, 

 Clements, Richard, M.D., July, 1855. 

 Cresson, Chas. M., M.D., March, 1856. 

 *Cope, Alfred, July, 1856. 

 Cleburne, Wm. (N.R.) March 31, 1857. 

 Carter, Robt., M.D., April, 1857. 

 *Cummins, Daniel B., June, 1857. 

 Caldwell, H. Clay, M.D., Nov. 1857. 

 Cuthbert, Mayland, Dec. 1857. 

 Covey, Edward N., M.D.{N.R.), Dec. 1857. 

 Clarke, Edw. S., Jan 1858. 

 Cresson, Ezra T., April, 1858. 




LIST OF MEMBERS. 



283 



Coleman, Geo. Dawson (X.R.), Apr. 1853. 

 Clark, T. Edwards (X.R.), Dec. 1859. 

 *Clark, J. Hinckley, March, 1859. 

 *Cox, James S., June, 1859. 

 Cram, Capt. T. J. (X.R.) Oct. 1859. 

 Cox, Brinton, Dec. 1859. 

 Comly, Franklin A., Feb. 1860. 

 Coates, Andrew (N.R.), May, 1860. 

 Cregar, Philip A., June, 1860. 

 Cleborne, Chris. J., M.D., July, 1860. 

 ^Carpenter, Geo. W. Jr., Oct. 1860. 

 Carbonell, Felix B. (N.R.), Dec. 1860. 

 *Canby, Wm. M. (N.R.), Feb. 1861. 

 Conrad, Thomas K. (N.R.) Feb. 1861. 

 *Conarroe, Geo. XL, Feb. 1861. 

 *Cope, Edward D., July, 1861. 

 *Crozer, John F., March, 1862. 

 Curtis, Edw., M.D., July, 1863. 

 Coxe, Eckley, Jan. 1865. 

 Childs, Geo. W., Jan. 1866. 

 Carpenter, L. Henry, Major, June, 1866. 

 Crawford, S. Wylie, Gen., M.D., Aug. 1866. 

 Calhoun, Maj. A. R., Dec. 1866. 

 *Cope, Francis R., Feb. 1867. 

 *Cope, Thomas P., Feb., 1867. 

 *Cope, Miss R. A., Feb. 1867. 

 *Carpenter, Samuel P., Feb. 1867. 

 *Colwell, Stephen, Feb. 1867. 

 ^Cooper, Lewis, March, 1867. 

 Comegys, Benj. B., March, 1867. 

 *Coxe, Charles S., April, 1867. 

 ^Campbell, A., April, 1867. 

 *Clark, E. W., May, 1867. 

 *Clark, Clarence H., May, 1867. 

 *Clark, Frank H., May, 1867. 

 ^Crease, Orlando, May, 1867. 

 *Che5tOD, D. Murray, M.D., May, 1867. 

 '•Clyde, Thomas, May, 1867. 

 ■:^Cooke, Jay, May, 1867. 



^Dohson, Judah, Nov. 1813. 

 Davis, DavidJoncs, June, 1815. 

 *Dulles, Joseph H., Feb. 1816, 

 *Deitz, Rudolph, Jan. 1821. 

 Dunn, Nathan (corres.), June, 1828. 

 Davis, Chas., M.D. (N.R.), March, 1842. 

 Dickson, S.Henrj', M.D.,(cor.), Feb. 1843 

 Darrach, ll'rn., M.D., May, 1844. 



Dundas, Jas., Aug. 1844. 

 *Dickesou, M. W., M.D., Oct. 1846, 

 *Da Costa, J. C, M.D., Feb. 1852. 

 Ducachel, Rev. H. W., D.D,, April, 1852, 

 Durand, Elias, April, 1852. 

 *Dunglison, Robley, M.D., Jan. 1853. 

 *Draper, Edmund, May, 1853. 

 Dock, Geo., M.D. (N.R.), Feb. 1854. 

 Dunlap, Thos., Dec. 1856. 

 *Dreer, Ferdinand J.. April, 1857. 

 Da Costa, John C, Sr., June, 1857. 

 Da Costa, John C, Jr., June, 1857. 

 Drayton, Henry E., M.D., April, 1858, 

 *Dimpfel, F. P., April, 1858. 

 *Davidson, Geo., Aug. 1858. 

 Dow, John M. (N.R.), Sept. 1858. 

 Da Costa, Geo. J., Oct. 1858. 

 Darrach, Jas. A., M.D., Nov. 1858. 

 Darby, John T., M.D. (N.R.), March, 1859. 

 Davis, John C, June, 1859. 

 Downie, T. C. (N.R.), Aug. 1859. 

 *Drexel, Jos. W., June, 1860. 

 *Dieflfenbaugh, E., Dec, 18G5. 

 De Figaniere, Alfonso (N.R.), Mar. 1866. 

 Durborow, Chas. B., March, 1866. 

 Deal, Lemuel J., M.D., April, 1866. 

 Dreer, Henry A., May, 1866. 

 Dixon, W. C, M.D., Oct. 1866. 

 Davids, Hugh, Dec. 1866. 



Eberle, John, M.D., April, 1819. 

 *Ellmaker, Levi, April, 1829. 

 Elwyn, Alfred L., M.D., Dec, 1831. 

 Evans, Edm. C, M.D. (N.R.), Oct. 1838. 

 *Ellet, Chas., Jr., April, 1842. 

 *Edwards, Amory (N.R.), March, 1852. 

 Emerson, G., M.D., Aug. 1853. 

 Ennis, Jacob, Feb. 1857. 

 Eastwick, Edward P. (N.R.), May, 1857. 

 Edwards, Arthur M. (N.R.), Sept. 1858. 

 Egbert, Daniel, M.D. (N.R.), Oct. 1858. 

 Emlen, J. Norris, April, 1859. 

 Elliot, D. G. (N.R.), May, 1860. 

 Evans, Rowland E., Nov. I860. 

 Evans, Wm., Jr., Feb. 1866. 

 Edwards, Edward B., Jan. 18G7. 

 . *Earp, Thomas, March, 18G7. 




284 



LIST OF MEMBERS. 



Frazer, Robert, April, 1814. 



* Fisher, Joseph, May, 1821. 

 Fisher, Thomas, April, 1824. 

 Foster, Wm. A., Nov. 1833. 

 Foster, Hudson S., Jau. 1834. 

 Frazer, John F., Sept. 1835. 

 French, Benj. F. (corres.), Jan. 1843. 

 ^- Frost, John, Sept. 1844. 



Foulke, IF/rt. Parker, Nov. 1849. 

 *Fisher, Jas. C, M.D. (N.R.), July, 1850 

 *Fahnestock, Geo. W., Aug. 1852. 



* Fisher, Charles Henry, May, 1853. 

 *Farnum, John, May, 1853. 



* Fisher, J. Francis, May, 1853. 

 *Fell, J. G., May, 1853. 

 Forbes, W. S., M D., Sept 1856. 

 Francfort, Eu<r., M.D. (N.R.), Oct. 1856. 

 Fassitt, Louis, MD.,Jan. 1857. 



Fry, J. Reese, Jan. 1857. 



Fryer, Blancour E., April, 1858. 



Foltz, Jonathan, M.D., May, 1859. 



Field, Thos. Y., Aug. 1859. 



Frampton, L. A., M.D., (N.R.), Sept. 1859. 



Fricke, Albert, M.D., Nov. 1859. 



Feltus, Henry J., Nov. 1859. 



Fry, Horace B., Dec. 1859. 



Felton, Samuel M. (N.R.), Feb. 1860. 



Foard, A. J., M.D., Dec. 1860. 



Furness, H. H., Nov. 1861. 



Fiot, Augustus, Jan. 1864. 



Frazer, Robert, Jan. 1866. 



Febiger, Christian C., May, 1866. 



Fenimore, Jason L., June, 1866. 



Ford, John, Dec. 1866. 



Farnum, J. Edwards, Jan., 1867. 



^(?e7//6f7?<.s,Jffcoi M.D. (found,), Jan. 1812. 

 Griffith, R. Egglesfield, M.D., May, 1815. 

 Godman, John Z>.,M.D., July, 1821. 

 Goddard, Paul B., M.D., Feb. 1829. 

 Griscom, Samuel S., Nov. 1830. 

 Gibbons, Wra. P. (N.R.), Nov. 1833. 

 Gumbes, Sam. Welherill, April, 1834. 

 *Gerhard, Wm. W., M.D., Nov. 1835. 

 Gambel, Wm., M.D., Aug. 1843. 

 Germain, Lewis J, (N.R,), April, 1846. 

 Goddard, Kingston, Rev.(N.R,), Jan. 1848. 

 Grant, Wm. Robertson, M.D., Dec. 1849. 



Genth, Fred. A., M.D., April, 1852. 

 *Greene, Francis v., M.D,(N.R.) Sept. 1852 

 * Griffith, Robert E., Sept. 1852. 

 *Graff, Frederic, May, 1853. 

 *Grigg, John, May, 1853. 

 Guillou, Constani, March, 1854. 

 Geyelin, Emile, Sept. 1854. 

 *Guez, John A., Nov. 1854. 

 Gibbs, George (N R.), Jan. 1856. 

 . Garrigues, S. S., M.D. (N.R.) June, 1856. 

 Gobrecht, W. H. (N.R.), M.D., July, 1856. 

 Griffith, Robt. E , M.D., Oct. 1856. 

 Gross, SamL D., M.D., Dec. 1856. 

 Gorgas, Albert C, M.D., Feb. 1857. 

 Guillou, Victor, Oct. 1858. 

 Grier, Wm. P., M.D., June, 1859. 

 Greenbank, Richard M., M.D., Oct. 1859. 

 Gabb, Wm. M. (N.R.), Jan. 1860. 

 Grubb, Edw. Burd (N.R.), April, 1860. 

 Goodman, J. R., M.D., March, 1864. 

 *Grant, Gen. Ulysses S , July, 1865. 

 *Graeff, John E., Feb. 1866. 

 *Garrett, Philip C, Feb. 1866. 

 Gilbert, Wm. K., M D,, May, 1866. 

 Guier, Geo. M.D. (N.R.), June, 1866. 

 *Grant, Wm. S., Dec. 1866. 

 Gibbons, Charles, Jan,, 1867. 

 *Greble, Edwin, Jan., 1867. 

 *Gratz, Robert H,, April, 1867. 

 *Gibson, Henry C, July, 1867. 

 *Gibson, John, July, 1867. 



* Haines, Reuben, Nov. 1813. 

 ^Hare, Robert, M.D., Nov. 1813. 

 Hazard, Saml. (corres.), Jan. 1814. 

 ^Harlan, Richard, M.D., Oct, 1815. 

 *Hays", Isaac, M.D., July, 1818. 

 Eentz, N. M. (N.R ), May, 1819. 

 "Hembel, William, Sept. 1824. 

 *Hering, C, M.D., (corres,), Oct, 1826. 

 Horsfield, S. C. C. (N.R.), Oct. 1830. 

 Uuffnagle, Chas., M.D. (N.R.), Nov. 1830. 

 ^HalloweU, Edw., M.D., Feb. 1834. 

 *Harris, Edward (N.R.), Aug. 1835. 

 *Haldeman, S. S. (N.R.), Jau. 1837. 

 *Holmes, Chas., Feb. 1838. 

 * Haines, John S., March, 1841. 

 Eeisttr, J. P., M.D. (N.R.), Nov. 1843. 




LIST OF MEMBERS. 



285 



Heermann, Achlphus Z., M.D., April, 1845, 

 Hartshorne, Edw., M.D., May, 1847. 

 *Haiaes, Robt. B., Jan. 1848. 

 Henderson, A. A., .M.D. (corre3.)July, 1848 



* Horner, Wm. E., M.D., Feb. 1849. 

 Henri/, Bernard, M.D., May, 1849. 

 Hopkinson, Joseph, xM.D., Feb. 1852. 

 *Hewson, Addiuell, M.D., Jan. 1853, 

 Hanson, H, Cooper, Feb. 1853. 

 *-Hallowell, Morris L. (N.R.), May, 1853. 



* Hutchinson, J. Pemberton, May, 1853. 

 Harrison, Joseph, Jr., Aug. 1854. 



:ilgard, Theo. C, M.D. (N.R.), Oct. 1854. 

 Hooper, Win. H., M.D., Dec. 1854. 

 Hunt, Wm., M.D., Jan. 1855. 

 Hartshorne, Henry, M.D., April, 1855. 

 Hagedorn, C. F., Aug. 1855. 

 ■^Humphreys, Geo. A., Sept. 1855. 

 Hering, C. J. (N.R.), Sept. 1855. 

 Howell, Saml. B., M.D., Nov. 1855. 

 *Hayes, Isaac I., M.D., Jan. 1856. 

 *Hoopes, B. A., Feb. 1856. 

 llayden, F. V., M.D. (corres.), Mar. 1856. 

 Halsey, Wm. S., M.D., April, 1857. 

 Haldeman, Rich. J. (N.R.), Aug. 1857. 

 Harlow, Louis D., M.D., Aug. 1857. 

 Hoyt, Wm. D., M.U., Feb. 1858. 

 Hart, Harry (J., M.D., March, 1858. 

 *Hutchinson, Jas. H., M.D., April, 1858. 

 Huntington, David L., M.D., April, 1858. 

 *Hunt, J. Gibbons, M.D., July, 1858. 

 *IIenszey, W. C, Jan. 1859. 

 Hare, Robt. H , Feb. 1859. 

 *Haseltine, John, April, 1859. 

 "ilaseltine, Ward B., April, 1859. 

 Horuer, Alfred, June, 1859. 

 *Hand, James C, July, 1860. 

 Hepburn, Jas. (N.R ), June, 1863. 

 •'•'Horstmann, Wm. J., Dec. 1863. 

 .iugel, A., Sept. 1865. 

 ^-Hartshorne, Chas , Feb. 1866. 

 Hunt, Clemmons, March, 1866. 

 Hoopes, Josiah (N R.), April, 1866. 

 *Haddock, Daniel, Jr , May, 18G6. 

 *Huston, Samuel, -May, 1866. 

 Horn, Geo. H., M.D., July, 1866. 

 Houston, Edwin J., Dec. 1866. 



Haseltine, C. F., Jan., 1867, 

 Hacker, Wm., Feb. 1867. 

 *Haines, Miss Ann, Feb. 1867. 

 *Haine3, Miss Jane R., Feb. 1867. 

 Heger, Anthony, M.D., Feb. 1867 

 *Hay, William, April, 1867, 

 *Houston, H. H., April, 1867. 

 *Haseltine, Frank, May, 1867. 

 *Hamraitt, B., June, 1867. 

 Hare, H. Binney, M.D., Aug. 1867. 

 Hinkle, A. G., M.D., Sept. 1867. 

 Hassler, F. A. M.D., Nor. 1867. 



Jones, Thos. P., M.D., Dec. 1812. 



* James, Thos. C, iM.D., March, 1814. 



*Jcssiip, Augustui E., Nov. 1818. 



Johnson, Walter R. (N.R.), Feb. 1827. 



*Jaudon, Samuel (N.R.), Jan. 1836. 



Jackson, Isaac R., Aug. 1841. 



*Jordan, John, Jr., Jan. 1851. 



*Jeanes, Joseph, May, 1853. 



*Jeanes, Samuel, Jan. 1856. 



*Jessup, Edw. A., Nov. 1857. 



Janeway, John H., M.D. (N.R.) Sept. 1858. 



Judson, Oliver A., M.D., Oct. 1858. 



Johnson, Christopher (N.R.), Dec. 1858. 



Johnston, Alex., March, 1860. 



Jeuks, Wm. Furuess (N.R), Oct. 1863. 



Jones, Wm. Forster, Jan. 1866. 



Jayne, Eben C., Dec. 1866. 



*Jeanes, Joshua T., Dec. 1866. 



Jenkins, Wilson M., Jan. 1867. 



*Kneass, Wm., May, 1814. 

 *Keating, Wm. H., April, 1816. 

 Keagy, J. M., M.D., Jan. 1843. 

 Kane, Elisha K., Jan. 1843. 

 *Kilvington, Robert, April, 1843. 

 King, Chas. R., M.D., June, 1843. 

 Kern, Richard H., May, 1847. 

 Kern, Benj. J., M.D., Sept. 1847. 

 Kern, Edward M. (N.R.), Oct. 1847. 

 Keller, Wilhelm, M.D., Nov. 1848. 

 Keim, Geo. M. (N.R.), July, 1852. 

 *Keating, Wm. V., M.D., Jan. 1853. 

 Kennicotl, Robt. (corres., N. 11.), April, 18C8. 

 Kimber, Thos., Jr., April, 1858. 




286 



LIST OF MEMBERS. 



Knecland, Saml., Jr , M.D., May, 1858. 

 Kitchen, John S., M.D., June, 1858. 

 Krider, John, March, 1859. 

 Kane, John K., M.D. (N.R.), April, 1859. 

 Kendall, Prof. E. Otis, March, 1860. 

 Kingsbury, Chas. A., M.D., March, 1860. 

 Knight, J. Frank, Feb. 1863. 

 King, Wm. S., M.D., July, 1863. 

 King, Wm. M., M.D., Oct. 1863. 

 Keffer, Fred. A., M.D., Nov. 1864. 

 Kinsman, Chas. W., Feb. 1865. 

 *Klett, Frederick, Dec. 1865. 

 *KeehmIe, Wm. C, March, 1866. 

 Kenderdine, Robt. S., M.D., May, 1866. 

 Keen, Wra., Jr., M.D., April, 1867. 

 *Knight, Edw. C, May, 1867. 

 *Kennedy, Elias D., Aug. 1867. 



*Luke?is, Isaiah, June, 1812. 



Le Conie, John (corres.), Feb. 1815. 



Lea, John, May, 1815. 



*Lea, Isaac, LL.D., June, 1815. 



Longstreth, Joshua, June, 1815. 



*Lesueur, Chs. A., Jan. 1818. 



Land, John (N.R.), May, 1836. 



*Le Conte, J. L., M.D. (corres.) Feb. 1845. 



*Leidy, Joseph, M.D., July, 1845. 



*Lewis, Elisha J., M.D., July, 1846. 



*Lambert, John, Nov. 1846. 



*Lea, M. Carey, Sept. 1847. 



*Lennig, Chas., Oct. 1847. 



*Ludlow, John L., M.D,, Nov. 1847. 



Lejee, Wm. R., Feb. 1848. 



*Lea, H. C, Feb. 1848. 



*Lewis, Francis W., M.D., Oct. 1849. 



*Lennig, Francis, July, 1851. 



Langstroth, Rev. L. L. (N.R.), Sept. 1851 



*Lea, Joseph, June, 1852. 



*Logan, J. Dickinson, M.D., Mar. 1853. 



Lang, Edmund, M.D., April, 1853. 



*Lea, Thos. T., May, 1853. 



*Lewis, A. J., May, 1853. 



*Lovering, Joseph S., May, 1853. 



Lippincott, Joshua B., June, 1853. 



Lesley, J. P., June, 1853. 



Luther, Diller, M.D. (N.R.), Oct. 1854. 



La Roche, C. Percy, M.D., Oct. 1855. 



Lewis, Samuel, M.D., Oct. 1855. 

 Lamborn, R. H., May, 1857. 

 Lowber, Wm., M.D., June, 1858. 

 Letterman, Jon. C, M.D. (N.R.), Jan. 1859. 

 Littell, Emlen T., Jan. 1859. 

 Lesley, Joseph, Jr., March, 1859. 

 *Lewis, Saunders, March, 1859. 

 Lippincott, Joshua, April, 1859. 

 *Longstreth, Wm. W., Feb. 1860. 

 Lewis, Joseph S., Jan. 1861. 

 Leypoldt, F. (N.R.), March, 1862. 

 Lorenz, W. (N.R.), Feb. 1863. 

 *Lewis, Geo. T., Dec. 1863. 

 Lyman, Benj. Smith, Aug. 1865. 

 *Little, Amos R., March, 1866. 

 *Lewis, Chas. S., April, 1866. 

 Leeds, Albert R., Dec. 1866. 

 Levick, James, M.D., Jan. 1867. 

 *Lovering, Jos. S. Jr., Feb. 1867, 

 *Livezey, John, Feb. 1867. 

 *Long, Mrs. E. P., March, 1867. 

 *Little, James H., April, 1867. 

 Langdon, T. Brantley, July, 1867. 

 Leeds, Josiah W., Dec. 1867. 



*Mann, C. M. (founder), Jan. 1812. 

 *Maclure, Wm., July, 1812. 

 *M'EueQ, Thos., M.D., May, 1818. 



* Morton, Saml. Geo., M.D., April, 1820. 

 *Mitchell, John E., M.D., July, 1822. 

 Mickle, Andrew E., M.D., June, 1831. 

 Mutter, Thos. D,, M.D., July, 1833. 

 M'Euen, Chas., Dec. 1834. 



Mifflin, Geo., March, 1835. 

 Miller, Clement S., Dec. 1836. 



* Mar Hand, John U., May, 1839. 

 *Maclure, Alexander, Dec. 1840. 

 Moss, Theo. F., June, 1845. 



M'Call, Gen. G. A. (corres.), June, 1847. 

 M'Clellau, J. H. B., M.D., Nov. 1847. 

 M'Michael, Wm,, June, 1850. 

 *Meigs, J. Forsyth, M.D., April. 1852. 

 *3Iorris, Jacob G., April, 1852. 

 *Meigs, Jas. Aitken, M.D., April, 1852. 

 *3Iercer, Singleton A., May, 1853. 

 nierrick, Saml. V., May, 1853. 

 *Mgers, John B., May, 1853. 




LIST OF MEMBERS. 



287 



Mitchell, S. Weir, M.D., Sept. 1853. 

 Merrick, J. Vaughaa, April, 1854. 

 Messchert, M. H., June, 1854. 

 *Morris, J. Chestoa, M.D., Oct. 1854. 

 *3Ioore, Saml., M.D., Nov. 1855. 

 M'AUister, John, Jr., June, 185C. 

 Monnier, Alfred (N.R.), Aug. 1856. 

 Morton, Thos. Geo., M.D., Aug. 1856. 

 Morehouse, Geo. R., M.D., Aug. 1856. 

 Marsh, Benj. V., April, 1857. 

 McGuire, Jas. C. (N.R.), April, 1857. 

 *Martin, Geo., M.D., April, 1857. 

 Mintiirn, Edw., M.D., Oct. 1857. 

 McClune, Jas., Jan. 1858. 

 McAllister, Wm. Y., Feb. 1858. 

 McEuen, Chas. Izard, June, 1858. 

 McCanles, John, April, 1859. 

 Maguire, Nicholas H., July, 1859. 

 *Morrk, Miss Margaretta H., Sept. 1859, 

 *Mactier, Wm. L., Jan. 1860. 

 *Meehan, Thos., March, 1860. 

 Moore, Francis, M.D., May, 1860. 

 *Mordecai, Edw. R., M.D.(X.R.)May, 1860 

 Mitchell, Edw. Craig (N.R.), July, 1860. 

 *Morris, Henry, March, 1862. 

 Miller, E. Spencer, May, 1862. 

 Martindale, Jos. C, M.D., Jan. 1863. 

 Milliken, Jas., March, 1863. 

 Maisch, John M., March, 1864. 

 McCreary, J. B., May, 1865. 

 *Meade, Maj. Gen. Geo. C, July, 1865. 

 McQuillen, J. H., M.D., Oct. 1865. 

 Maris, John M., Oct. 1865. 

 Mackenzie, R. Shelton, March, 1866. 

 Moore, J. G., July, 1866. 

 Mayburry, Wm., M.D., Oct. 1866. 

 ^Marshall, Richard M., Feb. 1867. 

 ^Marshall, Benj., Feb. 1867. 

 *MorU>n, Samuel C, March, 18G7. 

 *Magarge, Charles, April, 1867. 

 *McKeaa, H. Pratt, April, 1867. 

 *Morris, Wistar, April, 18G7. 

 *Morris, Israel, April, 1867. 

 *Morris, Theo. H., May, 1867. 

 *Moore, Andrew M., July, 1867. 

 Matthews, Chas. W. Oct. 1867. 

 Murphy, Edw. R., Nov. 1867. 



*Moorhead, Wm. G., Dec. 1867. 

 *Magee, J. Ronaldsou, Dec. 1867. 

 *Magee, Horace, Dec. 1867. 



*Norris, Wm., Jr., Dec. 1830. 

 Neill, John, M.D., May, 1847. 

 *Xorris, Octavus A., Oct., 1849. 

 Newbold, Thos., M.D.(N.R.), Nov. 1854. 

 Neff, Chas., M.D., April, 1858. 

 Norris, Geo. W., M.D., May, 1858. 

 *Norri3, Wm. F., May, 1858. 

 *Norris, Thaddeus, May, 1858. 

 Norris, Isaac, M.D., Jan. 1861. 

 *Nebinger, A., M.D., July, 1866. 

 Nolan, Edw. J., M.D., April, 1867. 

 Newkirk, Matthew, Nov. 1867. 



*Ord, George, Sept. 1815. 

 Orne, Jas. H., Dec. 1865. 

 Ogden,C. G., July, 1866. 



*Parmen(ier, /V. S. (founder), Jan. 1812. 

 .*Pierce, Jacob, (N.R.), Dec. 1813. 

 *Patterson, R. M., M.D., Jan. 1816. 

 *Peale, Titian R. (N.R.), Aug. 1817. 

 *roulson, Chas. A., Sept. 1823. 

 ^Pennock, C. W., M.D. (N.R.), June, 1824. 

 *Preston, Jonas, M.D., Jan. 1825. 

 Penrose, Saml. S., Nov. 1830. 

 *Peterson, Robert E., April, 1831. 

 Porter, R. R., June, 1833. 

 Pearsall, Robt., Dec. 1835. 

 Phillips, John S., Aug. 1836. 

 Pepper, Wm., M.D., Feb. 1837. 

 Percival, Thomas C, Jan. 1845. 

 Powel, Saml. (N.R.), July, 1847. 

 *Pancoast, Jos., M D., Dec. 1847. 

 Phillips, D. B., M.D., Oct. 1852. 

 Page, Wm. Byrd, M.D., April, 1853. 



* Pepper, Henry, May, 1853. 



* Price, Richard, May, 1853. 



* Piatt, Wm., May, 1853. 

 Pennypacker, I. A., M.D., Sept. 1854. 

 Penrose, R. A. F., M.D., April, 1856. 

 Packard, John II., M.D., Nov. 1856. 

 Paul, Jas., M.D., March, 1857. 

 *Pcpper, L. S., M.D., July, 1857. 




288 



LIST OF MEMBERS. 



Porter, Prof. E. D. (X.R.), Oct. 1857. 

 Parrish, Wm. D., May, 1853. 

 Powel, John Hare (N.R.), May, 1858. 

 Parker, Jos. E., M.D., July, 1858. 

 Peters, Francis, Jan. 1859. 

 Patterson, Francis E., Jan. 1859. 

 Peace, Edw., M.D., April, 1859. 

 Peterson, Geo. W., Aug. 1859. 

 *Pepper, Geo. S., July, 1860. 

 Potts, Wm. (N.R.), Nov. 1860. 

 Parrish, Edward, Dec. 1860. 

 Powel, Robt. Hare, May, 1862. 

 Porter, J. Hampden, M.D., Feb. 1863. 

 Parker, Chas. F., Aug. 1865. 

 Parrish, Jas. C , March, 1866. 

 Parker, John B., April, 1866. 

 *PattersoD, Joseph, Feb. 1867. 

 Procter, "VVra., Feb. 1867. 

 -Phillips, Moro, March, 1867. 

 *Page, Joseph F., April, 1867. 

 Pepper, W., M.D., Aug. 1867. 

 Pepper, Geo., M.D., Aug. 1867. 

 *Potter, Thomas, May, 1867. 



Queen, Jas. W., Jan. 1858. 



*Rotch, Joseph, Feb. 1814. 

 ^Randolph, Richard, May, 1814. 

 Richardson, Caleb, Dec. 1814. 

 *Rotch, Thomas, Feb. 1816. 

 Rafinesque, C. S., Feb. 1816. 

 ^Read, James, Dec. 1824. 

 Reeve, Mark M., M.D., March, 1831. 

 *Ruschenberger, W. S. W., M.D. (corres 



May, 1832. 

 Rogers, Henry D., (N.R.), Nov. 1834. 

 Ryan, Thomas, Jan. 1836. 

 Rogers, R.E ., M.D., Feb. 1837. 

 *Redtield, John H., (corres.), Aug. 184 

 Rogers, James B., M.D., Oct. 1847. 

 *Rosengarten, Saml. G., May, 1850. 

 Remington, R. P., (X.R.), Nov. 1850. 

 *Rand, B. Howard, M. D., Jan. 1851. 

 ^Remington, Thos. P., May, 1853. 

 Rogers, Fairman, Feb. 1854. 

 *Rogers, W. Frederick, March, 18-55. 

 Rush, Madison, June, 1855. 



Rand, Theodore D., Sept. 1857. 

 Ryland, K., M.D., Dec. 1857. 

 Richardson, T. G., M.D., (N.R.) Jan. 1858 

 Roberts, Solomon W., April, 1860. 

 Reece, Davis, (N.R ), Nov. 1860. 

 *Rice, John, April, 1861. 

 Rothrock, J. T., Dec. 1864. 

 Randolph, S. Emlen, Dec. 1865. 

 *Reakirt, Edwin L., Jan. 1866. 

 Reakirt, Tryon, April, 1866. 

 *Rhoads, Jos. R, May, 1866. 

 *Roberts, S. Raymond, June, 1866. 

 ^Randolph, Evan, Feb. 1867. 

 Robb, Richard R., Feb. 1867. 

 *RockhilI, Daniel H., May, 1867. 

 Ralston, Rev. J. G., May, 1867. 



*Shinn, John, Jr., (founder), Jan. 1812. 



*Speakman, John (founder), Jan. 1812. 

 *Sai/, Thomas (founder), April, 1812. 

 *Stotise, Joseph, M.D., May, 1812. 



*Say, Benjamin, June, 1813. 



Stockton, E. B., May, 1815. 



*Smith, Charles W., Dec. 1815. 



*Smith, Jacob R., Dec. 1815. 



Stewart, Wiiliam, (N.R.), June, 1823. 



*Spackman, George, M.D., July, 1825. 



*Smith, Joseph P., Feb. 1826. 



*Seybert, Henry, M.D., Dec. 182G. 



Steinhaur, Rev. Dan., July, 1829. 



Smith, John B., April, 1834. 



*Simmons, John (N.R.), July, 1835. 



Shoemaker, Benj., (N.R.), Sept. 1835. 

 .), Snelling, Samuel, Aug. 1836. 



*Say, Mrs. Lucy W., (N.R.), Oct. 1841. 



Stephens, H. S., May, 1843. 



Sargent, F. W., M.D. (N R.), Sept. 1847. 



*Sergeant, J. Dickinson, Oct. 1847. 

 6. Smith, Francis G., M.D., Feb. 1849. 



Smith. Aubrey H.. Sept 1850. 



*Smith, Charles E., June, 1851. 



Sherman, W. L., M.D., Oct. 1851. 



Sharpless, Caspar W., Jan. 1852. 



Struthers, William, Feb. 1852. 



*Seal, Thomas F., (N.R.), May, 1852. 



*Sheafer, P. W., (N.R.), March, 1853. 



*Sehafhirt, Fred., (N.R.), March, 1853. 




LIST OP MEMBERS. 



289 



Sheppard, Edwin, Dec. 1867. 

 Silliman, Henry R., M.D., 1867. 



*Swift, .Joseph, May, 1853. 

 *Sanderson, Ed. F., (X.R.), Sept. 1853. 

 Smyth, Samuel, (N.R ), June, 1855. 



*Spackman, Rev. H. S. (N.R.),July, 1855. Troost, G^erarrf, M.D. (founder), Jan. 1812. 



Smith, Alex. Hamilton, M.D., Dec. 1856. *Tbompson, J. Edgar, Feb. 1831. 



Souder, Edmund A., Feb. 1857. Tuft, John B., M.D., (N.R.), May, 1831. 



Scull, Gideon D., March, 1857. * Taylor, Rich. C, (corres.), July, 1832. 



Slack, John H., M.D. (N. R.), July, 1857. *Townsend, John K., M.D., Sept. 1833. 



Schmidt, Henry D., (N.R.),Feb. 1858. Turnpenny, Frederick, M.D., Nov. 1833. 



*SommerviIIe, Jas. M., M.D., Feb. 1858. 

 Stimpson, Wm., (N.R.), April, 1858. 

 Stephens, Lemuel, May, 1858. 

 Stewart, Wm. H., (N.R.), Oct. 1858. 

 Shoemaker, Benj. H., Oct. 1858. 

 Swann, Wilson C, M.D., Feb. 1859. 



Trudeau, James, M.D. (N.R.), Nov. 1835. 

 *Trautwine, John C, April, 1852. 

 Taggart, Wm. H., M.D., April, 1853. 

 Turner, Thos. J., M. D., Feb. 1854. 

 Tyson, Job R., May, 1854. 

 Tiedeman, Henry, M.D., July, 1855. 



*Stewardson, Thomas, M.D., April, 1859. Taylor, William J., Feb. 1857. 



Smith, Henry H., M.D., April, 1859. 

 Seitzinger, -F. S., April, 1859. 

 *Sparks, Thomas, May, 1859. 

 *Smith, Thomas, June, 1859. 

 Schell, Henry S., M.D., July, 1859. 

 *Schafifer, Chas., M.D., March, 1861. 

 Scattergood, Thos., Jr., Nov. 1862. 

 Smith, A. K., M.D., Nov. 1862. 

 Smith, Andrew H., M.D., Jan. 1863. 

 Saurman, Benj. F., M.D., Jan. 1863. 

 Steele, J. Button, (N.R), Feb. 1863. 

 Scattergood, Geo. J., Aug. 1863. 

 Smith, Richard S., Feb. 1864. 

 Smith, Thos. Guilford, Jan. 1866. 



Turnbull, W. P., July, 1857. 

 Tompkins, Myron, M.D., May, 1858. 

 *Tryon, Geo. W., Jr., June, 1859. 

 Townsend, Washington, Oct. 1859. 

 Torr, Wm. S., Oct. 1860. 

 Thompson, Edgar L., Nov. 1860. 

 Turner, J. Paul, M.D., April, 1864. 

 Thompson, Jas. C, Feb. 1865. 

 Trotter, Newbold H., Dec. 1865.. 

 Taylor, Alfred B., Dec. 1865. 

 *Turner, John, March, 1866. 

 ^Thomas, Joseph, M.D., April, 1866. 

 Tryon, Edw. K., Jr., April, 1866. 

 Taylor, T. Clarkson, (N.R.), May, 1866. 



Stelwagen, Thos. C., D.D.S., March, 1866. ^Turnpenny, Jos. C, Dec. 1866. 



*Slaymaker, Samuel E., March, 1866. 

 Shipley, Samuel R., April, 1866. 

 Sellers, Wm., April, 1866. 

 Stille, Henry, M.D., May, 1866. 

 Shober, Sam. L , July, 1866. 

 Sellers, Coleman, Dec. 1866. 

 *Shively, Geo. S., M.D., Dec. 1866. 

 Stevens, W. H., Jan. 1867. 

 *Smith, Walter B., Jan. 1867. 

 Stetler, John G., M.D., Feb. 1867. 

 ♦Smith, Charles, March, 1867. 

 Snowden, J. Ross, April, 1867. 

 *Spencer, Charles, April, 1867. 

 *Scott, Thomas A., April, 1867. 

 *Sloan, Andrew W., May, 1867. 

 Shoemaker, Geo. Y., Nov. 1867. 

 Smith, Lloyd P., Nov. 1867. 



*Taylor, Charles, March, 1867. 

 *Tyler, Geo. F., April, 1867. 

 *Trevor, John B., (N.R.), May, 1867. 

 *Taitt, John T., May, 1867. 

 Tyson, J. K., M.D., Aug., 1867. 

 Thomas, Chas. H., M.D., Sept., 1867. 



Uhler, Wm. H., M.D., Jan. 1856. 

 Uhler, Philip R., (N.R.), March, 1858. 

 Ulke, Henry, (N.R.), April, 1858. 



Vawixim, Lardmr, June, 1815. 

 *Yaut, Roberts, March, 1818. 

 * Vaughan, John, March, 1822. 

 *Vaux, William S., March, 1834. 

 Vanderkemp, John J., M.D., April, 1854. 

 Vail, Hugh D., Nov. 1860. 



19 




290 



LIST OF MEMBERS. 



Vandyke, E. B., M.D., Sept. 1866. 

 *Vaux, George, Dec. 1866. 

 *Vaux, Mrs. E. H., Feb'y, 1867. 



Wilson, Alexander, June, 1813. 

 Warner, Benjamin, Feb. 1814. 

 Waterhouse, John F., M.D., March, 1814. 



* Warder, William S., Dec. 1814. 

 *Wagner, William, June, 1815. 

 Woollens, Jos., M.D., June, 1815. 



* Watson, Joseph, May, 1816. 

 *We(herill, J. Price, March, 181'7. 



* Wagner, Tobias, Oct. 1818. 

 *Williams, Henry J., April, 1819. 

 *Wetherill, William, Feb. 1824. 

 Wood, Wm. W. (N.R.), Jan. 1825. 

 *Wood, Geo. B., M.D., Feb. 1825. 



Ware, Nathaniel A. (X.R.), Oct. 1826. 

 *Wetherill, Charles, Nov. 1830. 

 *Wistar, Richard, Jan. 1831. 



* Wilson, Thos. B., M.D., June, 1832. 

 Walker, A. M. (N.R.), April, 1836. 

 Whelpley, James D. (N.R.), Mar. 1838. 

 Wistar, Mifflin, M.D., June, 1839. 

 Watson, Gavin, M.D., April, 1840. 



Wetherill, Samuel, (N.R.), Nov. 1843. 

 Woodhouse, Sam. W., M.D., Nov. 1845. 

 *Wetherill, Chs.M., M.D., (N.R.),Feb. 1846 

 Whitman, Wm. E.. Feb. 1848. 

 Wolgamuth, Francis F, Feb. 1848. 

 *Wilson, Wm. S., June, 1848. 

 *WheatIey, Chs. M., March, 1850. 

 *Wister, Caspar, M. D., June, 1851. 

 *WeIsh, William, May, 1853. 

 *Wood, Richard D., May, 1853. 

 *WheIen, Edward S., June, 1853. 

 Wythes, Rev. Jos. H. (N.R.), Nov. 1853. 

 Woodward, J. J., M.D., June, 1855. 

 West, Hilborne, M.D., Sept. 1855. 

 Wilson, Joseph, M.D., Jan. 1856. 

 *Weightman, Wm., Sept. 1856. 

 Warren, Gen. G. K., (N.R.), Feb. 1857. 

 Wilcocks, Alex., M.D., April, 1857. 

 Warren, David March, May, 1857. 

 Wurts, C. S.,M.D., July, 1857. 

 Wharton, Henry, Feb. 1858. 

 Wayne, Henry C, Feb. 1858. 



Wilson, Pierce B., (N.R.), Oct. 1858. 

 Wilson, Samuel W., M.D., Dec. 1858. 

 ^Whitney, Jas. S., Dec. 1858. 

 Williams, Samuel H., May, 1859. 

 Wister, Owen J., M.D., June, 1859. 

 White, John D., M.D., Oct. 1859. 

 *White, S. S., D.D.S., Nov. 1859. 

 *WeIsh, John, Dec. 1859. 

 *Wilstach, Wm. P., July, 1860. 

 Wood, Richard, Sept. 1860. 

 *Warner, John, (N.R.), Dec. 1860. 

 *Wood Geo. K., M.D., (N.R.), Jan. 1862. 

 *Wells, W. Lehmann, M.D., June. 1863. 

 *Wood, Horatio 0., Jr.,M.D., June, 1864. 

 *Wharton, Joseph, July, 1864. 

 *Warner, Redwood F., Dec. 1864. 

 *Winsor, Henry, Aug. 1865. 

 Wood, John B., Sept. 1865. 

 Woodward, Geo. M., Jan. 1866. 

 *White, Wm. R., Feb. 1866. 

 *Wood. Edw. R., Feb. 1866. 

 Westcott, Charles S., March, 1866. 

 Webber, R. L., M.D., April, 1866. 

 Walton, Joseph, April, 1866. 

 Wyeth, Frank H., Sept. 1866. 

 *Welsh, Samuel, March, 1867. 

 ^Williamson,:. V., April, 1867. 

 ,*Wheeler, Charles, April, 1867. 

 *Whitney, Asa, May, 1867. 

 *Whitney, George, May, 1867. 

 *Whitney, John R., May, 1867. 

 *Whelen, Jas. N., May, 1867. 

 *Whelen, Wm. A., May, 1867. 

 *Whilldin, Alex., May, 1867. 

 *White, Wm. R., Jr., May, 1867. 

 Wilson, Franklin S., May, 1867. 

 *Wright, Jos. A., May, 1867. 

 *Waln, S. Morris, June, 1867. 

 Willcox, Joseph, Dec. 1867. 

 *Waterman, Isaac S., Dec. 1867. 



*Xantus, John Louis (de Vesey), (N.R.), 



Dec. 1856. 

 Yarrow, Harry C, M.D., May, 1863. 



Zantzinger, George, Sept. 1835. 

 *Zantzinger,Wm.S.,M.D.(N.R.)Oct. 1840. 

 Ziegler, George J., M.D., Nov. 1856. 




LIST OP CORRESPONDENTS. 291 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



Adrian Robert, LL.D., 1815. 

 Abadie, Pedro, Lima, Peru, 1821. 

 Audouin, J. Victor, M.D., Paris, 1821. 



Audubon, John James, New York, 1831. 



Anthony, John Gould, Cambridge, Mass., 1833. 



Agardh, Professor C. A., Lund. Sweden, 1834. ' 



Auber, Pedro Allessandro, 1835. 



Abadie, E. H., M.D. U. S. A., 1836. 



Agassiz, Professor Louis, Cambridge, Mass., 1836. 



Anton, Professor Frak., Halle, Germany, 1840. 



Alger, Francis, Boston, 1841. 



Arago, M., Paris, 1843. 



Avogadro, Amedeo, Turin, 1844. 



Audubon, Victor G., New York, 1845. 



Adams, Charles B., Amherst, Mass., 1846. 



Aall, Nicolai, Christiana, Sweden, 1846. 



Antisell, Thomas, M.D., New York, 1852. 



Audubon, John W., New York, 1854. 



Adamson, J.C., M. D., 1856. 



Agassiz, Alex., Cambridge, Mass., 1864. 



Anderson, Rev. M. B., LL. D., Rochester, New York, 1866. 



Adams, Rev. E. E., Oxford, Delaware County, Pennsylvania, 1867. 



Adams, Henry, London, 1867. 



Adams, Arthur, London, 1867. 



Angas, George French, Port Jackson, 1867. 



Bartram, William, Kingsessing, Pennsylvania, 1812. 



Bedwell, Thomas, Jr., Rio Janeiro, 1812. 



Beelen, A., Pittsburg, Pa., 1812. 



Brongniart, Alexandre, Paris, 1812. 



Bruce, Archibald, M.D., New York, 1812. 



Betton, Samuel, M.D., Germantown, 1815. 



Beck, T. Romeyn, M.D., Albany, New York, 1816. 



Bickley, Robert, Pennsylvania, 1816. 



Baldwin, William, M.D., Wilmington, Delaware, 1817. 



Blainville, H. Ducrolaij De, Paris, 1817. 



Bradbury, John, London, 1817. 



Bonelli, Professor Francisco, Turin, 1818. 



Broion, Samuel, M.D., Alabama, 1818. 



Brantz, Lewis, Baltimore, Maryland, 1819. 



Bigsby, John J., M.D., Newark-on-Trent, England, 1820. 



Beudant, F. S., Paris, 1821. 




292 LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS. 



Borie, A. Amicus, Paris, 1821. 

 Brongniart, Adolph T., M.D., Paris, 1821. 

 Brewster, David, LL.D., Edinburgh, 1822. 

 BucHand, Rev. William, D.D., Oxford, England. 

 Best, Robert, Lexington, Kentucky, 1823. 

 Bellingeri, M. Turin, Italy, 1826. 

 Berzelius, Professor J. Jacob, Stockholm, 1826. 

 Burr, John H. M.D., Chiloe, Chili, 1829. 

 Bustamente, Jose Maria, Mexico, 1828. 

 Boue, Ami, Paris, 1830. 

 Barabino, Joseph, New Orleans, 1831. 

 Blanding, TFiV/iam, M.D., Providence, R. I., 1831. 

 Beche, Sir Henry Thomas de la, London, 1832. 

 Bachman, Rev. John, D.D., Charleston, South Carolina, 1832. 

 Beaumont, Elie De, Paris, 1833. 

 Beck, Lewis C, New Brunswick, New Jersey, 1833. 

 Bell, Thomas, London, 1834. 

 Burchell, William J., London, 1835. 

 Belot, Jule Henri, Paris, 1836. 

 Binney, Amos, M.D., Boston, 1836. 

 Blanding, Shubel, M.D., South Carolina, 1836. 

 Blanding, William, South Carolina, 1836. 

 Broderip, William J., London, 1836. 

 Brown, Benjamin B., St. Louis, Missouri, 1837. 

 Barratt, Joseph, LL. D., Middleton, Connecticut, 1837. 

 ; Backman, Professor Charles Frederick, Jena, Germany, 1840. 



Bailey, Professor J. W., West Point, 1841. 

 Brewer, Thomas M., M.D., Boston, 1841. 

 Balfour, J. Hnttou, M.D., Glasgow, Scotland, 1842. 

 Bourne, W. Oland, New York, 1844. 

 Boudin, J. C. M., M.D., Versailles, France, 1845. 

 Bey, Clot, M.D., Cairo, Egypt, 1845. 

 Baird, W. M., Reading, Pennsylvania, 1846. 

 Brown, Richard, Sidney, Cape Breton, 1846. 

 Bromfeld, William A., M.D., Isle of Wight, 1847. 

 Brevoort, James Carson, Brooklyn, New York, 1847. 

 Barratt, John P., M.D., Barrattsville, South Carolina, 1847. 

 Brydges, Sir Harford J. J., Bart, England, 1848. 

 Blyth, Edward, Calcutta, 1848. 

 Blanchard, M. Emile, Paris, 1848. 

 Bartlett, John R., New York, 1850. 

 Barry, Rev. A. C, Racine, Wisconsin, 1853. 

 Buch Leopold von, Berlin, 1840. 

 Burnett, Waldo J., M.D., Boston, 1854. 

 Briicke, Professor E., Vienna, 1854. 

 Blake, W. P., Oakland, Ct., 1856. 

 Bland, Thomas, New York, 1858. 




LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS. 29J 



Beneke, Professor F. W., M.D., Hesse Cassel, 1858. 



Barrande, Joachim, Prague, 1859. 



Bunbury, Charles J. F., London, 1859. 



Bernardi, Chev. A. C, Paris, 1860. 



Booth, Francis, M.D., London, 1862, 



Beebe, Edw. H., Galena, IlL, 1863. 



Boirin, Am., Paris, 1864. 



Brunei, Rev. Ovide, Quebec, 1865. 



Blake, Rev. Joseph, Gilmanton, New Hampshire, 1S66. 



Baxter, Dr. J. H,, U. S. A., Washington, D. C, 1866. 



Berthoud, E. S., Boulder City, Colorado, 1866. 



Buck, Charles Elton, New York, 1866. 



Brewer, Wm. H., New Haven, Conn., 1867. 



Bourguignat, M. J. R., Paris, 1867. 



Benson, H., Cheltenham, Eng., 1867. 



Baudon, Auguste, M.D., Bauvais, France, 1867. 



Benoit, Luigi, Messina, 1867. 



Busch, G. von dem, M.D., Bremen, 1867. 



Cooper, Thomas, M.D., LL.D., Columbia, South Carolina, 1812. 



Cleveland, Parker, LL. D., Bowdoin College, Maine, 1812. 



Chapman, Isaac, M.D., Backs County, Pennsylvania, 1813. 



Clinton, De Witt, LL.D., New York, 1815. 



Carr, Robert, Kingsessing, Pennsylvania, 1816. 



Cist, Jacob, Wilkesbarre, Pennsylvania, 1816. 



Clifford, John D., Lexington, Kentucky, 1816. 



Cogswell, Joseph II., New York, 1816. 



Cloquet, Jules, Paris, 1816. 



Collins, Baron de, Havana, Cuba, 1818. 



Cuvier, Baron George, Paris, 1818. 



Cloquet, Jules {le jeune), Paris, 1819. 



Camper, Adrain, Holland, 1821. 



Colla, Professor Luigi, Turin, 1822. 



Cooper, William, New York, 1828. 



Cass, Lewis, Detroit, 1831. 



Craft, James S., Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, 1831. 



Cohen, J. J., M.D,, Baltimore, Maryland, 1833. 



Casanova, J. S., RLD., Paris, 1834. 



Cramer, Charles, St. Petersburg, Russia, 1834. 



Croom, H. P., Tallahasse, Florida, 1835. 



Cautley, Major Proby T., London, 1836. 



Children, J. G., London, 1836. 



Conybeare, William D., London, 1836. 



Curtis, John, London, 1836. 



Carus, Professor Charles G., M.D., Dresden, 1837. 



Clapp, Asahel, M.D., New Albany, Indiana, 1837. 



Clark, Lewis Meriwether, St. Louis, Missouri, 1837. 




294 LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS. 



Coiithouy, Joseph P., Boston, 1837. 



Combe, George, Edinburgh, 1838. 

 Clay, J. Randolph, 1839. 



Carpenter, Wm. M., M.D., Louisiana, 1840. 

 Charlesworth, Edward, London, 1841. 



Couper, J. Hamilton, Darien, Georgia, 1842. 



ConyngJiam, Redmond, Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, 1842. 



Chevreul, E., Paris, 1845. 



Chipman, Isaac L., Horton, Nova Scotia, 1847. 



Cantor, Theodore, M.D., Singapore, India, 1848. 



Cobb, J., M.D., Kentucky, 1848. 



Couch, D. N., U. S. A., 18P3. 



Campbell, H. Frazer, M. D., Augusta, Georgia, 1858. 



Carbonell, Celedonio, Porto Rico, 1859. 



Clemens, Brackenridge, M.D., Easton, Pa., 1859. 



Claparede, Edw., Geneva, 1859. 



Carpenter, Wm. B., M.D., London, 1860. 



Cornay, J. C, Paris, 1861. 



Chapman, A. W., M.D., Florida, 1861. 



Coues, Elliott, M. D., U. S. Army, Washington, D. C, 1861. 



Cowan, Hon. Edgar, Pennsylvania, 1861. 



Carpenter, P. P., New Montreal, C. E., 1862. 



Chittenden, Hon. L. E., New York, 1863. 

 Craven, J. J., M.D., U. S. A., 1863. 

 ! Capillini, Giovanni, Bologna, 1863. 



Clinton, Geo. W., Buffalo, 1866. 



Collier, D. C, Central City, Colorado, 1866. 



Credman, Herman, New York, 1866. 



Carter, Samuel R., Paris Hill, Oxford County, Maine, 1866. 



Caligny, M. Le Mis de, France, 1866. 



Cowan, Frank, Washington City, 1866. 



Crosse, H. M., Paris, 1867. 



Chenu, J. C, Paris, 1867. 



Chitty, Hon. Edw., Kingston, Jamaica, 1867. 



Cailliaud, Fred., Nantes, 1867. 



Cooper. J. G., M.D., San Francisco, CaL, 1867. 



Cox, J. C, Sydney, New South Wales, 1867. 



Cavada, F. F., U. S. Consul, Trinidad, 1867. 



I 



Davis, John, Boston, 1812. 



Doddridge, C, M D., Brook C. H., Virginia, 1812. 



Drake, Daniel, M.D., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1812. 



Ducatel, Julius F., M.D., Baltimore, Maryland, 1812. 



Dana, Samuel L., Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1815. 



Dillwyn, Lewis W., Pennllergar.?, Wales, 1815. 



Duncan, Thomas, Rappahannock, Virginia, 1816. 



Desmarest, Anselme Gaetan, Paris, 1817. 




LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS. 295 



Darlington, William, U.D., West Chester, Pennsylvania, 1818, 



Dum^ril, Constant, Paris, 1818. 



Duvignau, M., Paris, 1820. 



Dekaij, James E., M.D., New York, 1821. 



Dupont, Alfred, Wilmington, Delaware, 1821. 



De Rivero, Mariano, Arequipa, Peru, 1821. 



Deabbate, Gaspard, Turin, 1823. 



Drapier, A., Brussels, 1824. 



Doebereiner, Professor Johannes W., Jena, Austria, 1830. 



Deshayes, G. P., Paris, 1832. 



Dewei), liev. Chester, Rochester, N. Y., 1832. 



Dados, M., Paris, 1833. 



D'Orbigny, M. Alcide, Paris, 1834. 



Dana, James D., New Haven, Connecticut, 1836. 



De Candolle, Auguste P., Geneva, 1836. 



Draper, John W., M.D., New York, 1836. 



Dietz, Andrew R., St. Thomas, West Indies, 1839. 



Denny, Henry, Leeds, England, 1842. 



Delafield, Major Joseph, New York, 1846. 



Dawson, J. W., Pictou, Nova Scotia, 1846. 



Davis, Edwin Hamilton, M.D., Chilicothe, Ohio, 1847. 



Dowler, Bennet, M.D., New Orleans, 1848. 



Doane, George W., D.D., New Jersey, 1848. 



Dewey, Henry B., Para, Brazil, 1850. 



Diesing, C. M., M.D., Vienna, Austria, 1851. 



Daniel, Wm. F., M.D., London, 1852. 



Dalton, Henry G., M.D., Demarara, 1852. 



De Candolle, Alpbonse, Geneva, 1853. 



Dearing, W. E., M.D., Augusta, Georgia, 1854. 



Dalton, John C. W., M.D., New York, 1854. 



D'Oleveira, D. Baptista, Rio de Janerio, 1855. 



Doremus, R. Ogden, M.D., New York, 1855. 



Davis, J. Bernard, England, 1856. 



Desmoulins, Chas., Bordeaux, 1859. 



Dunker, Professor Wm., Marburg, Cassel, 1859. 



De Camp, Wm. H., M.D., Grand Rapids, Mich., 1859. 



Darwin, Chas., F.R.S., F.G.S , London, 1860. 



Deeaisne, Prof. Jos., Paris, 1862. 



Dean, John, M.D., Boston, 1862. 



Davis, Hon. Henry Winter, Baltimore, 1863. 



Durieu de Maisonneuve, Prof., Bordeaux, 1865. 



Du Bois, Prof. Alfred, Laurette, Park Co., Colorado, 1866. 



Dresser, H. E., London, 1867. 



Drouet, Henri, Troyes, 1867. 



Do Castello de Paiva, Baron, Lisbon, 1867. 



Durham, Geo. J., Austin, Texas, 1867. 




296 LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS, 



Elliott, Andrew, Pennsylvania, 1812. 



Etcher, Henri, Switzerland, 1813. 



Elliott, Stephen, Charleston, S. C, 1815. 



Eandi, Chev. A. M., Vassali, Turin, 1822. 



Ellis, W. Cox, Muucy, Pennsylvania, 1S28. 



Eaton, Amos, Troy, New York, 1829. 



Eaton, H. Hulbert, M.D., Lexington, Kentucky, 1831. 



Edwards, M. Milne, Paris, 1832 



Earle, John Milton, Worcester, Massachusetts, 1833. 



Esenbeck, Professor C. G. Nees Von, Bonn, 1836. 



Eights, James, M.D., Albany, New York, 1837. 



Emmons, Ebenezer, M.D., Albany, New York, 18-10. 



Engelmann, George, M.D., St. Louis, Missouri, 1840. 



Emerson, George B., Boston, 1840. 



Eyton, Thomas C, Shropshire, England, 1846. 



Eschricht Professor Daniel F., M.D., Copenhagen, 1848. 



Ehrenbt-rg, Christian G., M.D., Berlin, 1848. 



Erans, John, M D., New Harmony, Indiana, 1850. 



Enderlin, Charles, M.D., New York, 1854. 



Elliott, Rev. Stephen, Savannah, Georgia, 1856. 



Ettingshausen, Constantine Von, 1859. 



Edwards, Wm. H., New York, 1861. 



Fonds, M. Fanjasde St., Paris, 1812. 



Faucker, Sylvanus, Connecticut, 1815. 



Ferris, Z., Wilmington, Delaware, 1815. 



Forster, Thomas, ll.I)., London, 1816. 



Francis, John W., M.D., New York, 1816. 



Ferussac, Baron d\iudehard de, Paris, 1816. 



Fowler, Samuel, M.D., Franklin, New Jersey, 1823. 



Foote, John P., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1824. 



Fcatherstonhaugh, G. W., Havre, 1830. 



Frick Henry, Northumberland, Pennsylvania, 1831. 



Fitzinger, Professor Leopold, Vienna, 1832. 



Falconer, Hugh, M.D., London, 1836. 



Fitton, William Henry, M.D., London, 1837. 



Fussel, Edwin, M.D., Indianapolis, Indiana, 1840. 



Faraday, Sir Michael, London, 1847. 



Fremont, Jolin Charles, 1848. 



Foster, J. W., Lake Superior, 1852. 



Ford, Henry A., Glasstown, Gaboon River, Liberia, 1852. 



Fox, Ptev. Charles, Michigan, 1853. 



Frauenfeld, Geo. Ritter von, Vienna, 1859. 



Flourens, P., Paris, 1859. 



French, Wm. H., White Haven, Luzerne Co., Pa., 1866. 



Fischer, Paul, M.D., Paris, 1867. 




LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS. 297 



Griscom, John, LL.D., Burlington, New Jersey, 1814. 

 Gibbs, George, New York, 1815. 



Gilmer, Francis W., Albemarle County, Virginia, 1815. 

 Griffith, Thomas, M.D., Columbia, Pennsylvania, 1815. 

 Gorham, John, M.D., Harvard University, 1816. 

 Gummere, John, Burlington, New Jersey, 1816. 

 Garcia, Manuel de la, Madrid, 1817. 

 Guillemard, John, London, 1817. 

 Gilmore, Robert, Baltimore, Maryland, 1819. 

 Gray, John Edward, LL.D., London, 1823. 

 Germar, Professor Ernst Freidrich, Halle, Saxony, 1828. 

 Griffith, Edicard, London, 1828. 

 Galbraith, John, Venango, Pennsylvania, 1831. 

 Green, Benjamin D., M.D., Boston, 1831. 

 Geddings, E., M.D., Charleston, South Carolina, 1832. 

 Goldfuss, Professor August, M.D., Bonn, Germany, 1832. 

 Grateloup, M., M.D., Bordeaux, 1836. 

 Gray, Asa, M.D., Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1836. 

 Goheen, S. M. E., M.D., Columbia, Pennsylvania, 1840. 

 Gesner, Abraham, M.D., St. Johns, New Brunswick, 1840. 

 Gould, Augustus A., M.D., Boston, 1840. 

 Graham, Colonel J. D., U. S. Topog. Eng., 1841. 

 Gliddon, George R., 1841. 

 Galeotti, Henry, Brussels, 1842. 

 Giraud, Jacob P., Jr., New York, 1842. 

 Gould, John, London, 1843. 



Gibbes, Lewis, R., M.D., Charleston, South Carolina, 1844. 

 Gibbes, Robert W., M.D., Columbia, South Carolina, 1845. 

 Gourlie, William, Jr., Glasgow, 1846. 

 Gerolt, Baron Von, Washington, 1846. 

 Gray, George Robert, Loudon, 1846. 

 Gilliss, J. M, U.S.N., Washington City, 1848. 

 Goodsir, John D., Edinburgh, 1849. 

 Girard, Charles, M.D., Paris, 1851. 

 Garcia, Jose Ant., G. y, Lima, Peru, 1855. 

 Green, John W., M.D., New York, 1856. 

 Guyot, Professor Arnold, Princeton, N. J., 1858. 

 Gill, Prof. Theodore, Washington, D. C, 1860. 

 Guerin, Meneville F. E., Paris, 1861. 

 Gay, Jacques, Paris, 1862. 

 Grant, Jas. A., M.D., Canada, 1863. 

 Grote, Augustus R., New York, 18G5. 

 Gray, Robert, Glasgow, Scotland, 1866. 

 Gray, C. C, M.D., U. S. A., 1868. 

 Gaussoin, Eugene, Baltimore, Maryland, 1867. 

 Gassies, J. B., Bordeaux, 1867. 

 Gundlach, J., M. D., Havana, 1867. 

 Gurney, John Henry, Norfolk, England, 1867. 




298 LIST OP CORRESPONDENTS. 



Hauy, L'Abbe, Paris, 1812. 



Haines, John S., Northumberland, Pennsylvania, 1814. 



Hayden, Horace H., Baltimore, Maryland, 1815. 



Hosacl; David, M.D., New York, 1815. 



Hunt, David, M.D., Northampton, Massachusetts, 1815. 



Hassenfratz, J. E., Paris, 1819. 



Hazlewood, George, London, 1821. 



Hooker, Sir William Jackson, London, 1821. 



Harris, Thaddeus W., M.D., Milton, Massachusetts, 1826. 



Holmes, Ezekiel, M.D., Waterville College, Maine, 1826. 



Hor.^Jield, Thomas, M.D., London, 1826. 



Hadley, James, M.D., Fairfield, New York, 1828. 



Hildreth, Samuel P., M.D., Marietta, Ohio, 1832. 



Hitchcock, Edward, LL.D., Amherst, Massachusetts, 1832. 



Holbrook, John Edwards, M.D., Charleston. South Carolina, 1832. 



Hurry, William Cobb, Calcutta, 1832. 



Hooper, Robert, M.D., London, 1834. 



Herrick, Edward C, New Haven, 1836. 



Hodgkin, Thomas, M.D., London, 1837. 



Henderson, Joseph, M.D., Mifflin County, Pennsylvania, 1838. 



Houghton, Douglass, M.D., Detroit, 1840. 



Hubbard, Oliver P., M.D., Dartmouth College, New Hampshire, 1841. 



Henry, Joseph, LL.D., Washington City, 1S43. 



Herbert, Rev. William, LL.D., Manchester, England, 1843. 



Hodgson, W. B., Savannah, Georgia, 1843. 



Hall, James, Albany, New York, 1843. 



Humboldt, Baron Alexander Von, Berlin, 1843. 



Hayes, John Lord, Portsmouth, New Hampshire, 1844. 



Haight, Richard K., New York, 1844. 



Harden, John M. B., M.D., Liberty County, Georgia, 1846. 



Hammond, Ogden, Charleston, tsouth Carolina, 1847, 



Herschel, Sir J. F. W., Bart., London, 1847. 



Holmes, Francis S., Charleston, South Carolina, 1848. 



Henry, T. Charlton, M.D., U.S.A., 1850. 



Haidinger, W. C, Vienna, 1851. 



Hyrtl, Professor Joseph, Vienna, 1851. 



Hough, Franklin B., M.D., Somerville, New York, 1851. 



Hauer, Baron von, Vienna, 1851. 



Hartlaub, G., M.D., Bremen, 1852. 



Hoy, Philo R., M.D., Racine, Wisconsin, 1853. 



Hammond, W. A., M.D., New York, 1853. 



Hartman, W. D., M.D., Westchester, Pennsylvania, 1853. 



Harney, Wm. S., U.S.A., 1857. 



Heer, Prof. Oswald, Zurich, 1859. 



Homes, Morris, M. D., Vienna, 1859. 



Hamilton, W. J., London, 1859. 



Huxley, Prof. T. H., F.R.S., London, 1859. 




LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS. 299 



Hamlin, Dr. A. C, Bangor, Me., 1864. 

 Hyatt, Alpheus, Salem, Mass., 1867. 

 Hanley, Sylvanus, London, 1867. 

 Hidalgo, J. Gonzales, Madrid, 1867. 



Ives, Ansel W., M.D., New York, 1817. 



Jackson, William, Chester County, Pennsylvania, 1814. 



James, William, Halifax, Virginia, 1816. 



Jansen, Joseph, London, 1816. 



Jones, William, Calcutta, 1817. 



Jefferson, Thomas, LL.D., Virginia, 1818. 



Jussieu, Antoine Laurent de, Paris, 1818. 



Jameson, Robert, Edinburgh, 1822. 



James, Edicin, M.D., U.S.A., 1823. 



Jackson, Charles T., M.D., Boston, Massachusetts, 1833. 



Jay, John C, ALD., Mamaroneck, West Chester Co., N. Y., 1835. 



Jameson, William, M.D., Quito, Ecuador, 1836. 



Jenkins, John Carmichael, M. D., Miss., 1836. 



Jarvis, Rev. T. Farmer, D.D., Middletown, Connecticut, 1837. 



Jones, John Coffin, California, 1838. ' 



Johnston, James F. W., Durham, England, 1838. 



Johnson, Wesley, M.D., Liberia, Africa, 1841. 



Johnston, George. M.D., Berwick-on Tweed, 1841. 



Johnston, John, Middletown, Connecticut, 1843. 



Jackson, J. B. S., M.D., Boston, Massachusetts, 1846. 



Jackson, Robert M. S., M.D, Indiana County, Pennsylvania, 1848. 



Jones, William L., M.D., Riceboro, Georgia, 1848. 



Jardien, Ambrose, Paris, 1851. 



Jolis, Auguste le, Cherbourg, France, 1858. 



Jones, Jos., M.D., Nashville, Tenn., 1858. 



Jdger, Prof. Geo. F., Stuttgart, 1859. 



Jones, Thos. Rymer, F.R.S., London, 1859. 



Jones, Thos. Rupert, 1864. 



Jefi'rejs, J. Gwynn, London, 1867. 



Jerdon, T. C, M.D., Madras, India, 1867. 



Keech, Alexander, A.F.C., Rappahannock, Virginia, 1816. 



Kingsborough, Right Hon. Lord, London, 1837. 



King, Henry, M.D., St. Louis, Missouri, 1840. 



Kesteloot, Professor, Ghent, 1843. 



King, Alfred T., M.D., Greensburg, Pennsylvania, 1844. 



Kippist, Richard, London, 1846. 



Korthals, P. W., M.D., Leyden, 1847. 



Kaup, Professor Jean J., Darmstadt, 1848. 



Kirtland, J. P., M.D.. Cleveland, Ohio, 1848. 



Kennedy, II. W., M.D., Buenos Ayres, 1852. 




'.iOO LIST OF CORllESPONDENTS. 



Kirkwood, Daniel, Newark, Delaware, 1854. 

 Krauss, Prof F., Sluttgard, 1859. 

 Knieskern, P. D., M.D., N. Jersey, 1865. 

 Kite, Tho3., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1865. 

 Knster, H. C, Cassel, 1867. 



Logan, Algernon Sidney, Gcrmantown, Pennsylvania, 1815. 



Le Conic, Loim, 1816. 



Lakanal, Count, Paris, 1815. 



Lee, Ihnrij, We.?tmoreland, Virginia, 181G. 



Latreille, rierre Andre, Paris, 1817. 



Lefroy, M., Paris, 1817. 



Leman, M., Paris, 1817. 



L'Uerminier, Louix, M.D., Guadaloupc, 1817. 



Long, Stephen H., U. S. A., If 17, 



Lucas, J. A, n. (fils), Paris, 18)7. 



Laugier, M., Paris, 1818. 



Lamarck, Chev. de, Paris, 1818. 



Leach, W. Elford, M.D., London, 1818. 



Lawrenee, Jf'«7/«aw, M.D., London, 1821. 



Leigbton, James, M.D., Pittsburg, 1821. 



Lovell, Joseph, M.D., U.S.A., Washington, 1823. 



Leonhnrd, Karl Cftmr von, Heidelberg, 1824. 



Laporte, J. L., Bordeaux, 1832. 



Leiinon, R. P., Paris, 1832. 



Lyell, Charles, Sir, London, 1832. 



Lt Beau, JukIuh, M.D., New Orleans, 1833. 



Lobe, M. Guillaume, Havana, Cuba, 1836. 



Laporte, Count de Castlenau, Paris, 1837. 



Liebig, Justus, M.D., Giessen, Germany, 1840. 



Lockf, John, M.D., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1841. 



Lindln/, John, Ph. D., London, 1841. 



Longchamps, Ed. de Selys, Liege, 1842. 



Lcttsom, William G., Mexico, 1843. 



Lepsius, Professor Richard, LL.D., Berlin, 1843. 



Logan, Sir William E., Montreal, C'lnada, 1846. 



T/awrence, George N., New York, 1847. 



Lonsdale, William, London, 1847. 



Lacordaire, Th., Liege, 1848. 



Lagos, Manuel Fereira, Rio Janeiro, 1849. 



Lund, P. W., Denmark, 1849. 



Lynch, William F., U.S.N., 1852. 



Leconte, John, M.D., Columbia S. C, 1853. 



Lewis, James, M.D., Mohawk, N, Y., 1861. 



Lachmann, Johannes, Geneva, 18G2. 



Lyon, Sidney S., Indiana, 1863. 



Lcsquereux, Leo, Columbus, Ohio, 1865. 



Lincccum, Gideon, M.D., Long Point, Texas, 1867. 




LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS. 301 



Magnanfjf, Julian, M.D., Norfolk, Virginia, 1812. 



Mangouri, if., Paris, 1812. 



Mercier, M., Paris, 1812. 



Montral, Champvert, Guadaloupe, 1812. 



Milchill, Samud L., LL.D., New York, 1812. 



Muhlmberg, Rev. JImnj, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, 1812. 



Melfheimer, Rev. Frederick Vulenlin, Hanover, Pennsylvania, 1813. 



M'JJowell, Ephraim, M.D., Danville, Kentucky, 1813. 



Macnevin, William ./., M.D., New York, 1814. 



Mott, Valentine, M.D., New York, 1814. 



Montrjomey, TUornan If'., M.U., New York, 1814. 



ifontgomery, Alexander, M.D., U.S.N., 1814. 



Murry, Jarnejs W., Seville, Spain, 1814. 



Macaulay, Patrick, M.D., Baltimore, 181G. 



Michauz, F. A., Paris, 1818. 



Morinier, Noel de la, Paris, 1819. 



MUbert, F., New York, 1821. 



Mylius, C, KDonstadt, 1822. 



Monger, Johannes, Leipsic, 1822. 



Miot, A. F., Couite de Milito, Paris, 182.'). 



MacCuUoch, James, M.D., London, 1829. 



Mantell, Gideon A., LL.D., London, 1831. 



Macgillivray, William, Edinburgh, 1831. 



MartiuB, Profespor C. F. P. von, Munich, Austria, 1832. 



Mayer, Professor Hermann von, Frankfort, Germany, 1832 



Mitchell, Eiifka, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, 1832. 



Murcbison, Sir Pvoderick Jmpey, London, 1832. 



Martins, Charles, M.D., Paris, 1833. 



Moleon, S. G. V. de, Paris, 1833. 



Macfadyn, James, M.D., Kingston, Jamaica, 1835. 



MacLeay, William Hltarp, London, 183G. 



JUenke, Cfiarle^ T/veodore, M.D., Pyrmont, Germany, 1837. 



Macartney, John P., E.D., City of Mexico, 1838. 



McParland, Rev. Jamet, 1838. 



ifather, William W., Ohio, 1838. 



MousBon, Albert, Zurich, 1839. 



Michener, Ezra, M.D., New Garden, Pennsylvania, 1840. 



Markoe, Francis, Washington City, 1841. 



Mason, Owen, Providence, Khode Island, 1841. 



Melijheimer, F. E., M.D., York County, Pennsylvania, 1843. 



MiyMn, J. W., Portland, Maine, 1843. 



Morris, Rev. John G., D.D., Baltimore, 1844. 



ifiiller, ProfeJiHor John, M.D., Berlin, 1845. 



Morphett, John, Adelaide, South Australia, 1845. 



Michel, Myddleton, M.D., South Carolina, 1849. 



Malherbe, Alfred, Metz, France, 1850. 



Marsh, Dexter, Greenfield, MassachuBetts, 1852 



Maury, M. F., U.S.N., 1852. 




302 LIST OP CORRESPONDENTS, 



Motschulsky, Col. Victor de, St. Petersburg, 1854. 

 M'Cldlan, Capt. George B., U.S.A., 1855. 

 Meek, F. B., Washington, D. C, 1856^ 

 Miiller (von), Baron Job. Wm., 1856. 

 Mitchell, Prof. 0. M., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1858. 

 Morse, Edw. S., Portland, Maine, 1859. 

 Marcou, Prof. Jules, Zurich, I860. 

 McCartee, D. B., M.D., China, 1861. 

 Miles, Professor Manly, Lansing, Mich., 1864. 

 Maximilian, Prince of Wied, 1864. 

 Morgan, Lewis H., Rochester, N. Y., 1865. 

 Manigault, G. E., Charleston, S. C, 1866. 

 Marsh, 0. C, New Haven, Conn., 1867. 

 Marsh, Geo. P., Florence, Italy, 1867. 

 Montrouzier, R. P., New Caledonia, 1867. 

 Morelet, Arthur, Dijon, France, 1867. 

 Morcb, Prof. 0. A. L., Copenhagen, 1867. 

 Mabille, Jules, Dinon, France, 1867. 

 Mohrenstein, G. S. Von, Vienna, 1867. 



Nuttall, Thomas Sutton, Lancashire, England, 1817. 



Norwood, J. G., M.D., Madison, Indiana, 1842. 



Nicollet, J. N., Washington, D. C, 1842. 



Norman, Benjamin M., New Orleans, 1843. 



Nott, Josiah C, M.D., Mobile, Alabama, 1845. 



Nicholson, Charles, M.D., Sidney, New South Wales, 1846. 



Nilsson, Professor Sv., Lund, Sweden, 1847. 



Newberry, J. S., M.D., New York, 1853. 



Xordmann, Alexander Von, St. Petersburg, 1854. 



Newmann, Johann G., Gorlitz, 1859. 



Newton, Alfred, London, 1861. 



Newcomb, Wesley, M.D., Oakland, Calif., 1867. 



Oemler, Augustus J., Savannah, Georgia, 1812. 



0' Kelly, i/ic/iaeZy^., Dublin, Ireland, 1816. 



Olmsted, Denison, New Haven, 1828. 



Oakes, William, Ipswich, Massachusetts, 1830. 



Owen, Prof. Richard, London, 1834. 



Oken, Lorem, Basle, Switzerland, 1837. 



Owen, David Dale, M.D., New Harmony, Indiana, 1840. 



Ombrosi, James, Florence, Italy, 1843. 



Otis, Geo. A., M.D, U.S.A., Washington, D. C, 1866. 



Osten Sacken, Baron R. von, Russian Legation, New York, 1868. 



Pierpont, William, Barbadoes, 1812. 

 Poutrel, Alexander, Guadaloupe, West Indies, 1812. 

 Perkins, Jacob, Newburyport, Massachusetts, 1313. 

 Fmel, M., M.D., Paris, 1815. 




LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS. 303 



Palmer, John, Calcutta, 1817. 



Parent, M., Paris, 1820. 



Poll, Joseph Harrier, M.D., Naples, 1820. 



Parkes, Samuel, London, 1821. 



Pentland, J. Barclay, London, 1821. 



Porter, T. D., M.D., Columbia, South Carolina, 1822. 



Prevosf, Constant, Paris, 1823. 



Pickering, Charles, M.D., Boston, 1826. 



Poinsett. Joel R., South Carolina, 1829. 



Pitcher, Zina, M.D., Detroit, 1830. 



Peter, Robert, M.D., Lexington, Kentucky, 1835. 



Piddington, Henry, Calcutta, 1836. 



Prinsep, James, Calcutta, 1836. 



Parsons, Usher, M.D., Providence, Rhode Island, 1838- 



Prichard, James Cowles, M.D., Bristol, England, 1838. 



Pouchet, Professor F. A., Rouen, France, 1842. 



Phillips, John, York, England, 1843. 



Percival, James G., M.D., New Haven, Connecticut, 1843. 



Porcher, Francis P., M.D., Charleston, S. C, 1849. 



Perley, M. H., St. Johns, New Brunswick, 1852. 



Porter, Rev. T. C, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, iy53. 



Prout, Hiram A., M.D., St. Louis, 1854. 



Pratten, Henry, New Harmony, Indiana, 1854. 



Pleasonton, Alfred, U.S.A., 1857. 



Pierce, Prof. Benj., Cambridge, Mass., 1858. 



Postell, Jas., St. Simons Isle, Georgia, 1859. 



Prime, Temple, New York, 1862. 



Putnam, F. W., Salem, Mass., 1867. 



Pleasants, Henry, Pottsville, Penna., 1867. 



Pfeiffer, Louis, M.D., Cassel, 1867. 



Petit de la Saussaye, Paris, 1867. 



Poey, Prof. F., Havana, 1867. 



Philippi, R. A., M.D., Santiago, Chili, 1867. 



Quinby, J. B., 1836. 



Roxburgh, William, M.D., Calcutta, 1812. 



Randall, John, M.D., Boston, 1816. 



Risso, J. A., Nice, France^ 1818. 



Rucco, Julius, M.D., Naples, 1820. 



Reinwardt,Prof. C. G. C, Leyden, 1821. 



Ricord, Alexandre, Paris, 1823. 



Ricord, Phillipe, Paris, 1823. 



Ranzani, Camillo, Bologna, 1827. 



Riippel, Edward, M.D., Frankfort, Germany, 1830. 



Ravenel, Edmund, M.D., Charleston, South Carolina, 1832. 



Rhea, Matthew, Columbia, Tennessee, 1832. 



Richardson, Sir John, M.D., London, 1832. 




304 LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS. 



Riley, William, M.D., Baltimore, 1833. 



Rose, Robert H., M.D., Silver Lake, Pennsylvania, 1833. 



Rogers, W. B., Virginia, 1834. 



Reynolds, Henry S., M.D , U.S.N., 1835. 



Reichenbach, Professor H. G. L., Dresden, 1836. 



Hidden, John L., M.D., New Orleans, 1836. 



Randall, John W., Boston, 1837. 



Reynolds, F. N., New York, 1837. 



Redfield, William C, New York, 1841. 



Reinhardt, J. C, M.D., Brazil, 1845. 



Rich, William, Boston, Massachusetts, 1845. 



Rathvon. S. S., Lancaster, Pennsylvania, 1845. 



Robb, James, Frederickton, New Brunswick, 1846. 



Retzius, Professor Andreas, Stockholm, 1846. 



Ravenel, Henry W., South Carolina, 1849. 



Rio, Prof. Andres del, Mexico, 1849. 



Ranch, John H., Burlington, Iowa, 1856. 



Rutherford, Lewis M., New York, 1859. 



Romer, Prof. Edward von, Marburg, 1859. 



Rammelsberg, Prof. C. F., Berlin, 1859. 



Romer, Ferdinand, M.D., Bonn, 1859. 



Ross, Bernard R., Hudson's Bay Co.'s Service, 1861. 



Reeve, Lovell, F.L.S., London, 1862. 



Reynolds, Wm. F., U.S.T.E., 1862. 



R£mond de Gorbineau, Auguste, San Francisco, Cal., 1863. 



Roepper, Wm. Theo., Bethlehem, Penna., 1865. 



Romanowsky, Lt.-Col. Hennadius, St. Petersburg, 1865. 



Raimond, Antonio, M.D., Lima, Peru, 1867. 



Recluz, M. C, Paris, 1867. 



Reinhardt, Prof. J., Copenhagen, 1867. 



Southern, William, M.D., Maryland, 1812. 



Silliman, Benjamin, M.D., LL.D., New Haven, 1815. 



Scott, Andrew, M.D., Newbern, North Carolina, 1815. 



Sims, Howard, Baltimore, Maryland, 1817. 



Steinhauer, Rev. Henry, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. 



Schreibers, Charles Von, Vienna, 1818. 



Sparrman, Andreas, Univ. Upsal, 1818. 



St. Hilaire, Geoffroy, Paris, 1818. 



Stevens, Alexander H., M.D., New York, 1819. 



Schoolcraft, Henry R., Washington, 1820. 



Sealey, James, Cork, Ireland, 1820. 



Sternberg, Gaspard, Comte de, Bohemia, 1821. 



Schweinitz, Rev. Lewis D. Von, Ph. D., Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, 1822. 



Savi, Professor Paolo, Pisa, 1827. 



Shepard, Charles U., New Haven, 1828. 



Sagra, Ramon de la, Madrid, 1829. 




LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS. oOO 



Swai?ison, William, New Zealand. 1830. 

 Shannon, John, Beaver, Pennsylvania, 1831. 

 Short, Charles W., M.D., Lexington, Kentucky, 1831. 

 Sevres, Marcel de, Montpellier, France, 1832. 

 Styles, John, M.D., New York, 1834. 

 Saynisch, Lewis, M.D., Tioga, Pennsylvania, lS-36. 

 Schwaegrichen, Professor Fredk., M.D., Leipsic, 1836. 

 Skinner, Ezekiel, M.D., Liberia, 1837. 

 Stacey, Col. L. R., Calcutta, 1838. 

 Storer, D. Humphreys, M.D., Boston, 1839. 

 Sager, Abram, M.D., Detroit, 1839. 

 Silliman, Benjamin, Jr., New Haven, 1841. 

 Saul, James, New Orleans, 1841. 

 Sowerby, George B., London, 1841. 

 Stephens, John L. New York, 1843. 

 Strain, Lt. Isaac G., U.S.N., 1843. 

 Sedgwick, Rev. Adam, London, 1843. 

 Sullivant, Wm. S., Ohio, 1844. 

 Smith, J. Lawrence, Louisville, Kentucky, 1846. 

 Savage, Rev. Thomas S., M.D., Natchez, 1846. 

 Smith, Lt.-Col. Charles Hamilton, London, 1846. 

 Squier, George E., New York, 1847. 

 Selhy, John Prideaux, Northumberland, England, 1847 

 Sturm, Jacob, M.D., Nuremberg, 1847. 

 Scoresby, Rev. William, Yorkshire, England, 1848. 

 Strickland, Hugh E., London, 1848. 



Schouw, Professor J. Frederick, Ph. D., Copenhagen, 1848. 

 Shumard, Benjamin F., M.D., St. Louis, 1848. 

 Sharpey, William S., Loodon, 1849. 

 Smith, Robert, St. Thomas, West Indies, 1851. 

 Smith, J. Brown, California, 1852. 

 Schaum, H., M.D., Berlin, 1852. 

 Sauvalle, F. A., Cuba, 1855. 

 Santos, C. A., Rio de Janeiro, 1855. 

 Solar, Jose del, Lima, 1855. 

 Sandberger, Guido, M.D., Wiesbaden, 1855. 

 Sandberger, Fridolin, M.D., Wiesbaden, 1855. 

 Suckley, George M.D., New York, 1855. 

 Steiner, Lewis H., M.D., Frederick, .Md., 1855. 

 Sclater, Philip Lutley, London, 1856. 

 Spillman, Wm., M.D., Columbus, Miss., 1857. 

 Sorby, Henry Clifton, Sheffield, Eng., 1858. 

 Swess, Prof. Edward, Vienna, 1859. 

 Saussure, Henri de, Geneva, 1859. 

 Swallow, G. C, St. Louis, Mo., 1859. 

 Schimper, Prof. W. P., Strasburg, 1859. 

 Siebold, Carl Theo. von, Munich, 1859. 

 Smalhvood, Prof. Chas., M.U., Montreal, 1860. 



20 




306 LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS. 



Showalter, E. R., M.D., Uniontown, Ala., 1861. 



Spach, Prof. Edouard, Paris, J 862. 



Stein, Dr. Friedrich, Prague, 1862. 



Sheldon, Prof. D. S., Davenport, Iowa, 1862. 



Spinner, Hon. F. E., Washington, 1863. 



Sowerby, G. B., F.L.S., London, 1865. 



Stodder, Chas., Boston, 1865. 



Sinclair, Wm., Glasgow, 1866. 



Stauffer, Jacob, Lancaster, Penna., 1866. 



Scudder, Saml., H., M.D., Boston, Mass., 1867. 



Sewer, A. P., Lyons, 1867. 



Stearns, R. E. C, San Francisco, Cal., 1867. 



Stabile, Abbe Joseph, Milan, 1867. 



Souverbie, M,, Bordeaux, 1867. 



Salvin, Osbert, London, 1867. 



Thornton, William, M.D., Washington, 1812. 



Tilden, Joseph, Boston, Massachusetts, 1812. 



Turner, John, Maryland, 1814. 



Travers, John, Jr., Lisbon, 1814. 



Thomas, E., Baltimore, 1816. 



Trescott, John S., M.D., Charleston, South Carolina, 1818. 



Torrey, John, M.D., New York, 1822. 



Temminck, Conrad Jacob, Leyden, 1824. 



Totten, Jos. G., U.S.A., 1830. 



Tait, Charles, Claiborne, Alabama, 1832. 



Thompson, Allan, M.D., Edinburgh, 1834. 



Traill, Thomas Stewart, M.D., Edinburgh, 1835. 



Trimble, James, M.D., Williamsburg, Pennsylvania, 1836. 



Trinius, Professor, M.D., St. Petersburg, Russia, 1836. 



Tamnau, Professor Frederick, Berlin, 1839. 



Twigg, William A., New Harmony, Indiana, 1841. 



Tappan, Benjamin, Ohio, 1842. 



Taylor, Julius S., M.D., Carrolton, Ohio, 1845. 



Tuomey. M., Tuscaloosa, Alabama, 1845. 



Tremper, Jacob C, Yates County, New York, 1845. 



Tiedemann, Professor F., M.D., Heidelberg, 1848. 



Tuckerman, Edward, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1848. 



Thompson, William, Belfast, Ireland, 1848. 



Thurber, Geo., New York, 1861. 



Thomson, John H., New Bedford, Mass., 1862. 



Thackara, J. M. S., Punca, Peru, 1866. 



Troschel, Prof. F. H., Bonn, 1867. 



Unanue Hippolito,ll[..T).,L\Taa., Peru, 1821. 

 Ure, Andreiv, M.D., Glasgow, 1829. 




LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS. 307 



Vauquelin, M., Paris, 1818. 

 Van Hoorebeke, Charles Joseph, Ghent, 1821. 

 Van Rensselaer, Jeremiah, M.D , New York, 1829. 

 Voltz, Louis Phillippe, Strasburg, Germany, 1833. 

 Vargas, Jose Maria, M.D., Caracas, Venezuela, 1835. 

 Van Rensselaer, Stephen, Albany, Xew York, 1835. 



Vandeve, John. Dayton, Ohio, 1843. 

 Verneuil, Edward de, Paris, France, 1846. 

 Verreaux, Jules, Paris, 1848. 

 Van Beneden, P. J., Bruxelles, 1864. 

 Vaillant, Leon, M.D., Paris, 1867. 



Wallich, Nathaniel, M.D., Calcutta, 1819. 



Wetherill, Samuel R., Burlington, New Jersey, 1814. 



Webster, John W., M.D., Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1814. 



Wheelwright, Joseph, M.D., Kentucky, 1814. 



Wister, Charles J., Germantown, Pennsylvania, 1814. 



Wray, Thomas J., M.D., Augusta, Georgia, 1818. 



Worth, Jarnes, Bucks County, Pennsylvania, 1823. 



Wiedeman, D. R. G., M.D., Kiel, Germany, 1823. 



Ward, Malthus A., M.D., Athens, Georgia, 1832. 



Warder, John A., M.D., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1842. 



Warren, John C, M.D., Boston, Massachusetts, 1842. 



Wyman, Jeffries, M.D., Boston, Massachusetts, 1844. 



Wilson, Edward, Pembrokeshire, Wales, 1S46. 



Wood, W. Maxwell, M.D., U.S.N., 1847. 



Waldheim, Fischer, de, Moscow, 1848. 



Webber, Samuel, M.D., New Hampshire, 1851. 



Whitney, J. D., Boston, 1852. 



Wagner, Professor A., Munich, 1852. 



Wailes, B. L. C, Washington, Mississippi, 1854. 



Winslow, R. K., Cleveland, Ohio, 1854. 



Wright, W. W., York Springs, Pa., 1859. 



Wynne, .James, M.D., New York, 1861. 



Woodworth, John M., Chicago, 1861. 



Walsh, Benjamin D., Illinois, 1861. 



Wisely, J. J., M.D., Sioux Falls, Dacota Territory, 1866. 



Willis, John R., Halifax, Nova Scotia, 1867. 



Winchell, Alexander, Ann Arbor, Mich., 1867. 



Wood, Rev. Alphonso, Brooklyn, N. Y., 1867. 



Yarrell, William, London, 1829. 



Zollickoffer, William, M.D., Middletown, Maryland, 1834. 

 Zimmerman, CAr., M.D., Columbia, South Carolina, 1836. 

 Ziegler, Rev. Daniel, York, Pennsylvania, 1844. 

 Zuccarini, Professor Joseph G., Munich, Bavaria, 1846. 

 Zaremba, C. William, St. Joseph's, Mich., 18C7. 




308 



INDEX OF GENERA. 



INDEX OF GENERA. 



1867. 



Acalvpha 



Achlya 



Aetobatis 193, 



Agriochoerus 



Alauda 



Alopecurus 



Amblvcercus 



Amblystoma 



Ammania 



Ampelis 



Anagallis 



Audigena 



Anodonta 



Anomia 



Anthropopithecus 



Antilocarpa 



Aramides 



Area 



Archaeopteryx 



Archiplanus 



Artemisia 16, 



Arvicola 



Astarte 



Aster 16, 



Asperula 



Atriplex - 



Aturia 



Aulacoramphus 



Axinaja 



Balanus 



Balffina 132, 144, 



Balsenoptera 



Basilosaurus 144, 



Batatas 



Bathygnathus 



Beauharnaisius 



Beluga 



Bison 12, 



Bos 



Bothremys 



Bothropolys 



Brevoortia 



Brizopyrum 



Brodiffia 



Buceros 



Bursa 



Cakile 



Calamintha .. 

 Camarataxis 

 Cauis 



22 



93 



156 



32 



217 



23 



73 



167 



19 



217 



21 



122 



81 



139 



34 



136 



234 



139 



234 



68 



20 



136 



139 



20 



19 



16 



40 



118 



139 



139 



156 



144 



155 



21 



234 



114 



144 



85 



12 



40 



128 



81 



i4 



82 



215 



139 



18 



21 



167 



134 



Carditamara 139 



Cardium 139 



Carpocapsa 80 



Carpophaga 131 



Cassia 19 



Cassiculus 67 



Cassicus 63 



Castor 135 



Castoroides 97 



Caudisonia 85 



Centaurea 20 



Cercopithecus 12 



Cermatia 42 



Cervus 136 



Chama 139 



Chamsodelphis 153 



Charcharodon 142 



Cheiromys 38 



Chelone 143 



Chelopus 86 



Chenopodina 22 



Choeropsis 12 



Chrysopa 76 



Clypicterus 72 



Coleonyx 85 



Collinsia 21 



Colophonodon 151, 153 



Conobea 21 



Corbiila 139 



Corvus 216 



Crasatella 139 



Croton 22 



Crrptodira 40 



Cryptops 129 



Cyclocardia - 139 



Cvnocephalus 35 



Cynodon 16, 23 



Cynomys 135 



Cynorca 144, 151 



Cyperus 23 



Cyprinella 157 



Dactyloctenium 24 



Dactylospliffira 2 



Daubentonia 38 



Delphinus 144 



Dichelostemma 82 



Dichondra 21 



Dicotvles 12, 138, 155 



Didus 130 



Diodia 20 



Dione 139 




INDEX OF GENERA. 



309 



Dipodomjs 



Doryodon 144, 



Dosinia 



Dromococyx 



Dechellada 



Ecphora 



Ensatina 



Equus 



Erethizon 



Ervum 



Erysimum 



Eschrichtius 131, 144, 



Euclastes 31, 39, 



Eupatorium 



Eupherusa 



Euphorbia 



Eustachys 



Euxolus 



Falco 



Felis 



Fiber 



Fimbristylis. 

 Fissurella.... 

 Fuirena 



Galeocerdo 



Galera 138, 



Galium 



Gaura 



Geomys 



Geophilus 



Geotrygon 



Gerardia 



Glaucis 



Glottidium 



Glyceria 



Glycimeris 



Gossypium 



Grammarhynchus 



Gryphaea 



Helenium 



Heliotropium. 

 Hemipristis... 

 Hemicarpha... 



Herpestis 



Heredia 



Hesperomys... 

 Heterotriton... 

 Hetherotheca 

 Hippodamia... 



Hydraspis 



Hyla 



Hylobates 



Hynobius 



Hyphantes 



135 

 154 

 139 

 233 

 36 



139 



167 

 12 



136 

 19 

 17 



146 

 40 

 20 



232 

 22 

 23 

 22 



213 

 133 

 136 



23 

 139 



23 



37 

 141 

 155 



20 

 19 

 97 



128 



130 

 21 



232 

 19 

 24 



139 

 18 



112 

 40 



20 



21 



142 



23 



21 



167 



135 



167 



20 



76 



41 



85 



12 



167 



61 



Hypsilepis 157 



Hvsiprymnus 12 



Hyrax.' 12 



Icterus 46 



Iguanodou 234 



Ipomea 21 



Isocardia 139 



Isognomon 139 



Iva 20 



lulus 43, 129 



Juncus 22 



Jussiasa 19 



Kosteletzkya 18 



Laelaps 234 



Lamna 1-12 



Lanius 215 



Larus 217 



Leococoryne •'?2 



Leontodou 21 



Leptocaulis 19 



Leptochloa 24 



Leptoptila 94 



Lepus 136 



Lipocarpha 23 



Lithobius 130 



Lopezia 33 



Lophocetus 144, 146 



Lucina 139 



Lunatia 139 



Lygaeus ''•^ 



Macacus 36 



Macrophoca 153 



Madrepora 139 



Malvastrum 18 



Manatus 138 



Margaritana 81 



Mecistocepbalus 128 



Medicago 18 



Megalobatrachus 167 



Megaptera 32 



Melilotus 18 



MercL'nariu 139 



Merops 217 



Metis 139 



Micropus 7;) 



Modiola 18 



Motacilla 219 



Muscicai)a 218 



Mycetes 36 



Myliobatis 1-10, 156 



Nama 21 



Xeotoiiia 135 



Noetia 139 



Notidanus l^l 




310 



Ob 



INDEX OF GENERA. 



Oecodoma 11^^^°''^ 



(Enotheria ?q!q^°;°''' 



Oatocetus ".. ,]l ^'^'^^t- 



Oldenlandia... 1^4 Scaphiopus 



,16. 



20 Sciara. 



17 



18 



139 



85 



222 



134 



Onjchodactvlus ifivia- 



Orbicula " 167|Sciurus 



Oriolus ..'. 12»!«colopocrjptops _ 123 



Ostiaops 85 Selemdera ^g 



Ostrea ;^«l feemnopithecus 12 



9 

 18 

 18 

 37 



2o|Solidago .....'.'..'..'.'."„". 20 



22ilSphjerula ^33 



24 Spartina 03 



IOC Spea " QK 



541 bpermophilus ^34 



4Q Sphinx 80 



SphjTffina ''"*_' 242 



Sphyrna '.'.".'.'.'.'." 142 



Spirobolus ['" ^29 



Sporobolus ..'..,.'. 23 



Squalodon 132, 144,"l5o7i5i" 156 



btinodon j-, 



JStrigamia '^ 228 



Stropholirion " g2 



Su 



Otodus 139;Senebiera '.'.".'. '.'it;, . 



Ovis ^-i-j besbania 2 



oxjAina ■■;;";; !!?.f^"'"'''™ ^"'.'.'Z''.'Z'.' ^ 



I4^ibida 



Paludina oj Simla V; 



Panicum 94 Sinapis. 



Parthenium " ' 



Parus 



Paspalum 



Pecten 



.167. 



. 135 



. 21 



. 94 



96 



153 



163 



22 



144 



217 



139 



117 



156 



21 



40 



207 



Pendulimus 



Peltocephalus .*.'.'. 



Perognathus '." 



Petunia 



Phajnicothraupis 



Phenacobius 



Phoca ' 



Pbotogenis * 



Phyllanthus 



Physeter " 



Picus 



Pinna 



Piperivorus .*' 



Plagiostoma .' 



Plantago 



Pleurodira 



Plethodon .'.'.".'.'.*.' 



Pliorhytis '.".'.*, 



Pluchea ''"" 



Podocnemis 



Polydesmus ' 



Polygonum .'.".'.".".'.".'.... ' '22I '^''^^g'^s ... 



Polypremum ", 20 h'^ifol'um 



Portulaca "" ift|Trion" 



Potentilla 



12 



.16, 



Tachyphonus 94 



1^°!^'^^ ''..l''.''Z 134 



iapirus 29 



Teredo V....V/......*. 40 



Tliaumatias 233 



239! Thecachampsa [ 243 



20 Tliomomys ....'.'.' 135 



40 Thoracosaurus 



43J i29|Trachycepha]us .".'.'."...'."?.' 8 



12 



is^rio-ji^- ''■.■.■..■;;v.v.'.'.'.v.4o,' 142 



^. 29M-™olodites 2*' ^T 



Pnscodelphinus 144,145! 156 Turritella ■.■.■:..■..■■■■■;■■" ^' jo? 



Pteroglossus ,01 ino tt • 



Pyrosterna ^°^' !?X°'° 



Ursus 



40 



.141, 



Pyrrliopappus 



Raja 



Eampho-xanthus ".'..'.'.. 



Rhabdosteus '.!!!l32,"i44 



Rhampiiastos .'.200 



Kliinoceros 29 



Rhinocliilus... g. 



fioubieva ".v.'/.'.'."'.'.".'.'.'.'.*.'.'.'."" 22 



1 



113 

 21 



156 

 120 

 146 

 123 



81 

 134 



Vaucheria 90 



Verbena .,2 



Vespertilio ^33 



^"igna ■■""■ ,Q 



Vitis 



.42, 



Xiphonura. 



Zizyphinus. 



167 

 139 




GENERAL INDEX. 



811 



GENERAL INDEX. 



AUeu, Dr. H , On certain features ia 

 the conformation of the mammalian 

 skull, 11 ; Election as Correspond- 

 ing Secretary, 14; Remarks on the 

 tertiary occipital condyle, 137. 



Bache, Prof. Alex. Dallas, Announce- 

 ment of death of, II. 



Barnes, 0. N., Resignation of member- 

 ship, 32. 



Bridges, Dr. R., Announcement of the 

 publication of volume 6, part 2, of 

 Journal, 97. 



Cassin. John, A third Study of the 

 Icterida-, 39, 45 ; A Study of the 

 Rhampbastid.Te or Toucans, 97, 100; 

 Fasti OrnitholGgise,No.III., 139,212. 



Clemens, Dr. Brackenridge, Announce- 

 ment of death of, II. 



Committees, Standing, for 1867, 14. 



Conchological Section, Announcement 

 of organization, 14. 



Cope, Edw. D., Exhibition of skull 

 of Euclastes platyops, 31 ; On Eu- 

 clastes, a genus of extinct Chelor.i- 

 daj, 32, 29 ; Remarks on .Megaptera. 

 32 ; Exhibition of vertebrte of Tho- 

 racosaurus brevispinus, 39; Contri- 

 butions to the History of the Verte- 

 brates of Mesozoic Period in New 

 Jersey and Pennsylvania, 74, 75; 

 On the Families of Raniform Anura, 

 83. 84; Remarks on a collection of 

 Reptiles from Owen's Valley, 85 ; 

 Description of a new genus of Cy- i 

 prinoid Fishes, 95 ; Remarks on 

 four species of extinct Mammalia, 

 131; An addition to the vertebrate. 

 Fauna of the Miocene Period of 

 the United States, 132, 138; Re- 

 marks on the contents of caves of 

 South-western Virginia. 137 ; A re- 

 view of the species of Amblystoma, 

 138, 166 ; On the Genera of fresh 



water Fishes Hypsilepis, Baird. and 

 Photogenis, Cope, 138, 156; On the 

 distribution of fresh water Fishes in 

 the Alleghany Region of South- 

 western Virginia, 138 ; On the hab- 

 its of a Tipulideous Larva, 222 ; Re- 

 marks on extinct reptiles which ap- 

 proached the birds, 234. 

 Correspondence of the Academy for 

 1867, 244. 



Coues, Dr. Elliott, Notes on a Collec- 

 tion of Mammals from Arizona, 125, 

 133. 



Dewey, Rev. Dr. C, Announcement of 



death of, 138. 

 Diesing, Dr. C. M., Announcement of 



death of, 74. 

 Donations to the Museum, 246. 

 Donations to the Library, 251. 



Elliot, D. G., Description of a new 

 species of Owl of the Genus Scops, 

 94, 99. 



Elliott, Rev. Stephen, Announcement 

 of death of, 1. 



Election of Officers for 1868, 242. 



Election of Members and Correspon- 

 dents during 1867, 243. 



Ennis, Prof. J., The necessity of Nebu- 

 lar Rotation, 31, 87; The Mechan- 

 ical theory of Solar Heat, 226. 



Faraday, Prof. Michael, Announce- 

 ment of death of, 132. 



Featherstonhaugh, Prof. Geo. W., An- 

 noucement of death of, 1. 



Genth, Dr., Observation on certain 

 doubtful Minerals, 86. 



Heintzleman, J., Resignation of mem- 



berslii]), 14. 

 Hill, Richard, Note on Geotrygon syl- 

 I vatica, Gosse, ISO. 




312 



GENERAL INDEX. 



"" in:'^e?;;.t,^-,f -"- - I^eco.d-fXV- '•' ^^^--^-t of death 



■Vorris, Wm., Announcement of death 



Index of Genera, 308 



"T^'th^'o'f.^s"^'' Announcement of jpen^ock. Dr. C. W., Announcement of 



Jeanes. Jos Rp«,v„.»- ^^^^^ of, 39. "cement of 



^ponding Secreta^^T "' ^'^^"T 'S^^/^^^^ '^^ouncement of death 



^'deuTr'f n''r'' A^'io'incement of fe'P^'"' ^^ ^he Curators, 235. 

 death of, 1 1, 32. Report of the Librarian, 237 



.'"■frODS, 85, )Iemi„„ of the a ° ' 



|opp&Jf;i,?-.a.U, Oepos. Of, .„,,,, '"■ -, «. . 



Castoroides Ohioensis, 97: Of sne F^tberill, Dr. Chas V On r.. i 

 cimens of black hornstone m ^ ite, 13. ' '' °° ^'^colum- 



Lincecum, G., On the Habi'trof 



Marshal], Richard \r s^ 



ofdeathof- 13S ' ^°'^°"'^«n^ent 

 Maximilian, 'prince de Wied An 



nouncementofdeathof 31 



fornix nf V ,• •' • ^"^ dioicoeus 



rorms ot \,tis viDifera, 38 42 • Ad , - 



dit.oual .Votes on male forms of v;" 7- 



vinifera, 94, 98. ' °^ ^'- F^^^^'^erman, Dr. Chas, Announ 



' of death of, 138 



Texas Mvriapoda, 39, 42 : Remarks 



uioiid, 83; Observation on the life 

 historyofcertainsiphonaceous fresh 



water alga, from thermal springs, 

 1-0, iNotes on a Collection of Cali- 

 fornia Mjriapoda, 125, 127. 



tis 



cement 












JBll^U£Hl:i ^iLL. i . JAN ^0 197 



'^H Academy of natural Sciences 



1 of Philadelphia 



A 2 Proceedings 



V.19 



Biologicii) 

 6c Medical 

 S$om1m 



f^Cl 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STO 



E 





