

LIBR/iRY 

 ROYAL ONTARIO MUSRUl-1 

 100 Queen's Park 

 TCRCKTO, Ontario 

 M5S 2C6 



Returned to; 



Uc- jl^^'^ 



Date: 



L>^ loj 83> 





f^ 



•'^J- 



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



P H I E A D E L P H I A . 



1876 



2^-7^ 



P U B T, T C A T 1 X C M JI I T T E E . 

 JosEi'U Lkidt. ^I.D.. Geo. W. Tryox. Jk. . 



Wm. S. YaCTX. W. S. W. RuSCnEXBETlGRK, M.l). 



Geo. H. ^ou^^ M.D. 

 Editou: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Corner Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



18 7 6. 




/ 



Hall of the Academy or Natural Sciexces, 



Philadelphia, February, 1877. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1876 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows : — 

 Pa2;es 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D., 



Recording Secretary. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 COLLINS, PRINTER. 




LIST OF CONrillBUTORS, 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 

 For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Allen, Harrison. Zoological and Biological Metliods of Research 90 



Allen, J. A. DescriiDtion of a Xew Generic Tj'pe (Bassaricyon) of 



Procyonidaj from Costa Rica 30 



Barcena, Mariano. On certain Mexican Meteorites 122 



The Rocks known as Mexican Onyx 166 



Binney, W. G. On the Lingual Dentition, Jaw, and Genitalia of 



Carelia, Onchidella, and other Pnlmouata 183 



Chapman, H. C. Description of a Monstrosity 34 



Clark, S. F. Report on the Ilydroids collected on the Coast of Alaska 



and the Aleutian Islands, by W. H. Dall, U. S. Coast Survey 



and Party, from 1871 to 1874, inclusive 209 



Conrad, T. A. Note on a Cirripede of the California Miocene, with 



Remarks on Fossil Shells 273 



Cope, Edw. D. Fourth Contribution to the History of the Existing 



Cetacea 139 



Description of some Vertebrate Remains from the Fort Union Beds 



of Montana 248 



On some Extinct Reptiles and Batrachia from the Judith River and 



Fox Hill Beds of Montana 340 



Dall, W. H. On the Marine Faunal Regions of the North Pacific 205 



On the Extrusion of the Seminal Products in Limpets, with some 



Remarks on the Phyllogeny of the Docoglossia 239 



Ennis, Jac. Our Sidereal System and the direction and distance to its 



centre 360 



Gabb, Wm. ]\L Note on the Discovery of Representatives of Three 



Orders of Fossils new to the Cretaceous Formation of North 



America 178 



Notes on American Cretaceous Fossils, with descriptions of some 



New Species 276 




IV LIST OF CONTRTBUTORS. 



Gill, Theodore. Notes on Fishes from the Isthmus of Panama, col- 

 lected by Dr. J. F. Bransford, U. S. N 335 



Hay, Geo. Chemical Notes 72 



Jordan, D. S. and H. E. Copeland. The Genus Pomoxys, Rafinesque 68 



Ko8nig, Geo. Aug. On Pachnolite and Thomsenolite, Hexagonite, 



Goldsmith, a Variety of Pachnolite 180 



Lea, L Further Notes on " Inclusions" in Gems, etc 98 



LeConte, J. L. Report on Insects introduced hy means of tlic Inter- 

 national Exhibition 267 



Mazyck, Wm. G. On the Occurrence of Helix terrestris, Chem., in 



North America 127 



Pickering, Chas. On Photographs of Tasmanians at the Centennial 



Exposition 169 



Strecker, Herman. Description of a new species of ^giale, and notes 



on some other species of North American Lepidoptera 148 



White, Chas. A. Description of New Species of Fossils from Palpeo- 



zoic Rocks of Iowa 27 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1876. 



January 4, 1816. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-four members i)rescut. 



On Petalodus Prof. Leidy exhibited a tooth of Petalodus, 



whicli in shape and size resembles those from the carboniferous 

 limestone of Illinois, described by Dr. Newberry under the name 

 of P. Hnguifer. The specimen was brought to his notice only 

 this evening b}' Edward Bradin, a medical student of the Uni- 

 versity^, who desired to know what it was. It was stated to have 

 been found by another student, Oakford D. Acton, in the green 

 sand marl, about six miles from Salem, New Jersey. Remains of 

 the genus have previously never been found in formations later 

 than those of Carboniferous age, and it was therefore open to sus- 

 picion whether the present specimen really belonged to the green 

 sand deposit of Cretaceous age. Some portions of ash-colored 

 matter adherent to the tooth consist of carbonate of lime, and 

 this would indicate that the specimen had been derived from lime- 

 stone. 



January 11.* 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Sixty-one members present. 



' Note, — This day the Society met in its new building, S. W. corner of Race and 

 Nineteenth Streets, for the first time. 



2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1816. 



January 18. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-three members present. 



January 25. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Forty-five members present. 



The following were elected members: Chas. L. Sharpless, Dr. 

 Alfred Whelen, Rev. W. Q. Scott, Dr. Henry M. Fisher, Edwin 

 H. Fitler, Dr. Wm. R. Cruice, Chas. H. Rogers, and Dr. W. F. 

 Waugh. 



February 1. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Fortj'^-six members present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a New Generic Type, Bassari- 

 cyon Gabbii, of Procyonidjfi from Costa Rica," by J. A. Allen 

 was presented for publication. 



On a Gigantic Bird from the Eocene of Neiv 3Iexico. — Prof. 

 Cope exhibited a tarsometatarsus of a bird, discovered by himself 

 during the explorations in New Mexico, conducted by Lieut. G. 

 M. Wheeler, U. S. A. The characters of its proximal extremity 

 resemble in many points those of the order Cursores (represented 

 by the Struthionidse and Dinornis), while those of the distal end 

 are, in the middle and inner trochlea, like those of the Gastornis 

 of the Pai'is Basin. Its size indicates a species with feet twice 

 the bulk of those of the ostrich. The discover}'^ introduces this 

 group of birds to the known fauufe of North America recent and 

 extinct, and demonstrates that this continent has not been desti- 

 tute of the gigantic forms of birds, heretofore chiefl}^ found in 

 the Southern Hemisphere faunte. The description is as follows : — 



The hypotarsus is raoderatel}' prominent, with broad truncate 

 face, and does not inclose the ligamentous groove of its inner side. 

 Its superior angle is broken away in the specimen. The two fora- 

 mina which pierce the shaft just below tlie head, are well separated 

 from each other both on the posterior and anterior faces, marking 

 nearly equal thirds of the transverse diameter of the bone. The 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



cotyloid cavities for the tibio-tai-siis are bounded b}^ an elevated 

 margin, and are separated mediall}' by a single low oblique ridge. 

 The groove of the posterior face is particularly' wide, and the inner 

 part of the shaft is thinned, while the outer border is broadly con- 

 vex. The proximal part of the inner border (as far as it is pre- 

 served) is marked with a flat surface which is roughened with 

 ridges, which is perhaps the sutural articulation of the proximal 

 end of the metatarsus of the hallux. Xo such surface exists on 

 the corresponding bone of the ostrich or emeu. Only two of the 

 free distal phalangeal extremities are preserved. The shaft is 

 broken, showing that its interior is filled with cancellous tissue. 

 The free extremities are remarkable for the great inferior extent of 

 the articular trochlear face. The median is strongly grooved with 

 an obtuse excavation, and the lateral or bordering ridges are equal 

 and rounded. The groove is continuous with the superior surface, 

 but not with the inferior. There the convergent lateral ridges in- 

 losing the open groove, terminate in an abrupt elevation above the 

 adjacent surface of the shaft. The sides at this point are concave. 

 The inner free cond^de has an oblique articular face, the external 

 ridge dropping awa}' iuternalh^ as in many birds, and produced 

 beyond the inner ridge, distall}-. The articular face becomes then 

 a part of a spiral, and is little grooved above, but strongly gi-ooved 

 mediall}'. The vertical diameters of the sides differ, the inner 

 being much greater, and both are concave. A strong foramen 

 pierces the shaft just within the point of junction of the inner and 

 medial free extremities. 



Measurements. m. 



Transverse diameter of proximal end of tarsometatarsus . . .100 



Antero-posterior do. (partly infcreutial) 070 



Interval between penetrating foramina on anterior face shaft . .017 



^ Long diameter 050 



Median distal condyle < Vertical diameter 048 



(Transverse diameter 040 



iLong diameter 037 

 Vertical diameter 040 

 Transverse diameter 031 



The large size and wide separation of the penetrating foramina, 

 and the thin internal edge with sutural articular facet, distinguish 

 this form as distinct from any of the genera of Struthionidai and 

 Dinornithidse. It is therefore named Diatryma gigantea. 



On Strontianite and Associated Minerals in Mifflin Co — Mr. 

 Henry Carvill Lewis remarked that it might be of interest to 

 mention the occurrence of Strontianite in Pennsylvania — a mineral 

 which he believed had not been heretofore recorded as occurring in 

 our State. 



He had found it quite abtindantly in Mifflin Count}' on the 

 Juniata opposite Mount Union. It exists as tufts of white acicular 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



ciystals, lining pockets in limestone, or when in shale, disseminated 

 throughout the rock-mass. The specimen presented to the Academy 

 is of the latter kind. Its geological position is in hj'draulic lime- 

 stone near the lower horizon of the Water Lime Group. (No. 

 VI. of Penna. Survey.) 



Several other minerals have been found associated with the 

 strontianite ; among them a strontianitic aragonite, found in fibrous 

 crystalline crusts, generall}' about half an inch tliick. When heated 

 before the blowpipe it gives a red flame, and sometimes slightly 

 exfoliates. A specimen was examined b}'^ Dr. Genth, who finds the 

 amount of strontia present to be about one-half of one per cent. 



Calcite, ferrocalcite, common aragonite, and fluorite occur at the 

 same locality. 



A statement in Prof. Rogers' "Geology of Pennsylvania" (Vol. 

 I. p. 215), referring to the occurrence of strontianite at Marble 

 Hall, Montgomery County, is probably incorrect; barites, which is 

 there plentiful, being mistaken for it. 



February 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that the American correspon- 

 dent of " Nature" had characterized some recent remarks of his on 

 fertilization b}' insect agency, as an attack on Mr. Darwin. He 

 thought the members of the Academy would bear him out in the 

 statement that the facts and observations he had from time to 

 time offered were submitted in no spirit of antagonism to Mr. 

 Darwin, but often favored as much as they opposed views held by 

 that distinguisiied gentleman. Even those who were avowed 

 partisans of Mr. Darwin felt it necessary- to strengthen their posi- 

 tions by searching for new facts; surely the mere student who was 

 willing to wait till the evidence was all in, might offer the facts as 

 he found them, without being liable to the charge of direct anta- 

 gonism. However, he felt fortunate to-night in having two new 

 facts to offer, one of which might favor, and the other oppose 

 some generally accepted views. 



Variation in Quercus mocrocarpa. — Mr. M. remarked that 

 among many other characters distinguishing oaks, the color of 

 the one-year-old twigs was marked. Some species had purplish- 

 red twigs, as, for instance, the white oak ; others, as the burr oak, 

 had gray twigs. This character was remarkably constant through 

 all the species. He exhibited some branches of the burr oak 

 ( Quercus macrocarpa) in which was a tendency to develop the 

 character of the white oak. From the articulus of the fallen leaf 

 downwards, in some cases extending several inches, was a purple 




18TG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



line similar to the color of the white oak, giving the twig a striped 

 appearance. There was no reason why the whole twig might not 

 lose its gray color and become purple or brown, instead of par- 

 tially so as now, and no reason why it might not become a perma- 

 nent and enduring character. It was undoubtedlj' a fact favoring 

 evolutionary views. 



Self-Ferlilization in Broicallia elata — Mr. Meehan exhibited 

 specimens of this common green-house annual in flower and with 

 an abundance of perfect seed, and said it had been produced from 

 plants which had no aid whatever from insects in fertilization. 

 The tendency of thought at the present time was to present the 

 generalization that plants were benefited by cross fertilization; 

 that the}^ had come to abhor, so to say, in-and-in breeding, and 

 that color, fragrance, and honeyed secretion in flowers had been 

 developed in these later ages solely as inducements to insects to 

 visit them, and thereby' secure this cross fertilization. He did 

 not I'egard this necessity' for cross fertilization — this supposed 

 injury to plants, from in-and-in breeding — to be proved by any 

 means, as there are abundant evidences to the contrary. But un- 

 doubted self-fertilizers have existed as long and are every way 

 as health}' as those that cannot now fertilize themselves. It was 

 essential, he thought, that this point should be more fully proved 

 before we could sa}^ much about special contrivances for insuring 

 insect fertilization. 



That there was a considerable number of plants that could only 

 be fertilized b}' insect agenc\', was certainly true, and as remark- 

 able as it was true, and whatever the purport of this arrangement 

 might ultimately be proved to be, they who were working up this 

 field and increasing the number of instances were doing inestima- 

 ble service to science. But while there were instances of structure 

 Avhich seem to he specialized particularly with the object of insect 

 fertilization, it was but right that we should not close our eyes to 

 other structures which just as strongly seemed specialized to prevent 

 it. That was the case with the Browallia now exhibited. Not only 

 was it a fact that this plant with such an attractive blue color 

 perfected ever}' seed vessel without insect aid, but the structure 

 of the flower was such that sliould an insect endeavor to collect 

 the pollen it would onl}' aid, if that were necessary, in self-fertili- 

 zation. The stigma was nearly the length of the corolla tube ; 

 and the anthers, a trifle longer, were arranged closely around 

 it. Two of these were inverted just over the stigma, their backs 

 being densely bearded, and appearing to the naked eye like peta- 

 loid processes effectually closing the mouth of the throat. No 

 insect could thrust its proboscis into the tube, except tiirough this 

 dense bearded mass, and if it had foreign pollen, would be tho- 

 roughly cleaned by the beard ; but the ver}' act of penetration 

 would thrust these anthers forward on to the pistil, and thus aid 

 in rupturing the pollen sacs, and of course the self-fertilization of 




14 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1876. 



the flower. If we are to V)e told that " all flowers with brilliant 

 colors" have been so developed by the " nnconscions agency of 

 insects," as Sir John Lubbock tells us ; and if we are to regard 

 peculiarities of structures which prevent self-fertilization, as hav- 

 ing been arranged especially with that view and to that end, what 

 are we to say of cases like this of Browallia, with brilliant color, 

 and special structure favoring self-fertilization ? 



Ffbruary 15. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty members present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a INlonstrosity," by H. C. 

 Chapman, M.D., was presented for publication. 



Description of aneic Tsenia from Rhea Americana. — Dr. Chap- 

 man called the attention of the members to a new species of Tajnia 

 which he had found in the alimentary canal of the Rhea Ameri- 

 cana. According to Diesing there exists in the Struthio a taenia, 

 but as no description is given he could not say whether the species 

 are the same. It is very probable, however, that they are so. If 

 future investigation should show this to be correct, it will offer 

 another illustration of closely related forms having the same 

 entozoa. The taenia from the Rhea varies from 

 9 to 10 inches in length. Its head measures 

 ^^ of an inch in breadth and ^^ of an inch in 

 length (to beginning of 1st segment). The 

 head is provided with four suckers. The cer- 

 vical segments are rounded oft' at the articula- 

 j^ tions, but the mature ones are serrated. The 

 \ genital aperture is lateral and alternates from 

 ^ side to side. Sometimes there will be as 

 'i^ many as five successive segments on one side 

 exhibiting these apertures, and then five will 

 be seen on the opposite side of the next five 

 successive segments. The penis could be pro- 

 truded by compression and the vagina readily 

 seen. 

 From the fact of the head being rather thickly set upon this 

 species, the name Taenia tauricoUis was proposed for it. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



February 22. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the cliair. 



Thirty-two members present. 



A paper entitled " Descriptions of Xew Species of Fossils from 

 Paleozoic Rocks of Iowa," b}' Chas. A. White, M.D., was pre- 

 sented for publication. 



On the Theory of Evolution. — Prof. Cope gave a history of the 

 progress of the doctrine of evolution of animal and vegetable 

 types. While Darwin has been its prominent advocate within 

 the last few 3'ears, it was first presented to the scientific world, in 

 a rational form, by Lamarck of Paris, at the commencement of 

 the present century-. Owing to the adverse influence of Cuvier, 

 the doctrine remained dormant for half a ceutur}', and Darwin re- 

 suscitated it, making imi)ortant additions at the same time. Thus 

 Lamarck found the variations of species to be the primary'- evi- 

 dence of evolution b}' descent. Darwin enunciated the law of 

 " natural selection" as a result of the struggle for existence, in 

 accordance with which " the fittest" only survive. This law, now 

 generally accepted, is Darwin's principal contribution to the doc- 

 trine. It, however, has a secondary position in relation to the 

 origin of variation, whicli Lamarck saw, but did not account for, 

 and which Darwin has to assume in order to have materials from 

 which a " natural selection" can be made. 



The relations exhibited b}'- fully grown animals and plants with 

 transitional or embr3'^onic stages of other animals and plants, had 

 attracted the attention of anatomists at the time of Lamarck. 

 Some naturalists deduced from this now universally observed 

 phenomenon, that the lower tj'pes of animals were merely re- 

 pressed conditions of the higher, or in other words, were embiy- 

 onic stages become permanent. But the resemblances do not 

 usually extend to the entire organism, and the parallels are so 

 incomplete, that this view of the matter was clearl3' defective, and 

 did not constitute an explanation. Some embrvologists, as Lere- 

 boullet and Agassiz, asserted that no argument for a doctrine of 

 descent could be di'awn from such facts. 



The speaker, not adopting either view, made a full investigation 

 into the later embr3'onic stages, chiefly of the skeleton of the Ba- 

 trachia, in 1865, and Prof. Hyatt, of Salem, Mass., at the same 

 time made similar studies in the development of the Ammonites 

 and Nautili. The results as bearing on the doctrine of evolution 

 were published in 1869 (in " The Origin of Genera"). It was 'there 

 pointed out, that the most nearly related forms of animals do 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



present a relation of repression and advance, or of permanent em- 

 brj^onic and adult tj-pe, leaving no doubt that the one is descended 

 from the other. This relation was termed exact parallelism. It 

 was also shown, that, if the embryonic form were the parent, 

 the advanced descendant was produced b}' an increased rate of 

 growth, which i)heuomenon was called acceleration ; but that if 

 the embryonic type were the offspring, then its failure to attain 

 to the condition of the parent is due to the supervention of a 

 slower rate of growth ; to this phenomenon t\\Q iQxm retoTciation 

 was applied. It was then shown that the inexact jw.rallelism was 

 the result of unequal acceleration or retardation ; that is, accele- 

 ration affecting one organ or part more than another, thus dis- 

 turbing the combination of characters, which is necessary for the 

 state of exact parallelism between the perfect stage of one animal, 

 and the transitional state of another. Moreover, acceleration im- 

 plies constant addition to the parts of an animal, while retai-datioa 

 implies continual subtraction from its characters, or atropli}'. He 

 had also shown (Method of Creation, 1871), that the additions 

 either appeared as exact repetitions of preexistent parts, or as 

 modified repetitions, the former resulting in simple, the latter in 

 more complex organisms. 



Professor Ilaeckel, of Jena, has added the ke3-stone to the doc- 

 trine of evolution in his gastraea theory. Prior to this generaliza- 

 tion, it had been impossible to determine the true relation existing 

 between the four types of embrj-onic growth, or, to speak other- 

 wise, than that thej^ are inherently distinct from each other. But 

 Haeckel has happily determined the existence of identical stages 

 of growth Cor segmentation) in all of the types of eggs, the last 

 of which is the gastrula ; and beyond which the identity ceases. 

 Not that the four types of gastrula are without ditference, but this 

 difference may be accounted for, on i)lain principles. In 1874, 

 Haeckel, in his Anthropogenic, recognizes the importance of the 

 irregularity of time of appearance of the different characters of 

 animals, during the period of growth, as affecting their permanent 

 structure. "Wliile maintaining the view that the low forms repre- 

 sent the transitional stages of the higher, he proceeds to account 

 for the want of exact correspondence exhibited by them at the 

 present time, b}' reference to this principle. He believes that the 

 relation of parent and descendant has been concealed and changed 

 hy sul)sequent modifications of the order of appearance of charac- 

 ters in growth. To the original, simple descent he applies the 

 term palingenesis ; to the modified and later growth, coenogenesis. 

 The causes of the change from palingenesis to caniogenesis, he re- 

 gards as three, viz. : acceleration, retardation, and heterotopy. 



It is clear that the two types of growth distinguished by Prof. 

 Haeckel are those which had been pointed out b}' Prof. Cope in 

 "The Origin of Genera," as producing the relations of " exact" and 

 "inexact parallelism;" and that his explanation of the origin of 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. IT 



the latter relation by acceleration or retardation is the same as 

 that of the latter essa^y. Tlie importance which he attaches to 

 the subject was a source of gratification to the speaker, as it was 

 a similar impression that led to the publication of " The Origin of 

 Genera" in 1869. 



It remains to observe that the phenomena of exact parallelism 

 or palingenesis, are quite as necessarily accounted for on the prin- 

 ciple of acceleration or retardation, as are those of inexact paral- 

 lelism or coenogenesis. Were all parts of the organism accelerated 

 or retarded at a like rate, the relation of exact parallelism would 

 never be disturbed; while the inexactitude of the parallelism will 

 depend on the number of variations in the rate of growth of dif- 

 ferent organs of the individual, with additions introduced from 

 time to time. Hence it may be laid down, that synchronous ac- 

 celeration or retardation produces exact parallelism, and hetero- 

 chronous acceleration or retardation^ produces inexact parallel- 

 ism. 



In conclusion, it maj' be added that acceleration of the segmen- 

 tation, the protoplasma or animal portion of the primordial e.2.g^ 

 or retardation of segmentation of the deutoplasma or vegetative 

 half of the QSig^ or both, or the same relation between the growth 

 of the circumference and centre of the egg, has given rise to the 

 four types which the segmentation now presents. 



An analysis of the laws of evolution may be tabulated as fol- 

 lows : — 



"• SI. _. H :&j a zi S" 

 !^ i s ^t> o a 



00 3^ (T) Ci . , - 



S S i'ts ^ S ^ 



^ 



■ O 



<^ 2 



;*« 



pi -* o ^ 



acceleration. ( ^,^^9* ^f P^*''\™ * 



which proceeds by ) ^^^f'^f repetition * 



^ ■^ ^ Heterotopy « * 



retardation., f Exact atrophy * * 



which proceeds by ( Inexact atrophy (or seuility)' . . * * 



A Human Skull exhibiting unusual Features. — Dr. Allen ex- 

 hibited a human skull shoAving a number of peculiarities. The 

 most conspicuous of these was a large bridge-like process of bone 

 extending backward from the base of the pterj-goid process and 

 adjoining the under surface of the sphenoid bone in front of the 

 foramen spinosum. It was symmetrical, and visible through the 

 foramen ovale, from within the brain-case. 



Variations in this portion of the skull are frequent. 



' So called by Professor Hyatt. 




18 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1876. 



The posterior edge of the outer pter3'goid plate is exceedingly- 

 variable. A small process (3) is often seen jutting backward 

 from the border of the outer plate on a level with the end of the 

 spinous process. Several specimens in the collection exhibit a 

 bridge formed by this process uniting with the spinous process. 



That the variation in the skull under consideration is not of this 

 kind is proved by the specimen exhibiting this process, which for 

 the need of distinguishing it from the other may be called the 

 accessory process. 



The foramen (2) caused by the bridge-like process opens with- 

 out in the z^^gomatic fossa, and within at the anterior border of 



the foramen ovale. It probably 

 /' carried a large branch — the motor 



trunk — of the inferior maxillary 

 division of the fifth cranial nerve. 

 Among other peculiarities of the 

 same specimen may be mentioned 

 a duplication of the foramen spi- 

 nosum of the right side; the almost 

 oval shape of the sphenoidal fis- 

 sure; the presence of several is- 

 land-like patches of the upper 

 surface of the greater wing of the 

 sphenoid bone through openings 

 in the orbital plates of the frontal 

 bone ; the exceedingly bold sculp- 

 turing of the inner la^'er of the 

 brain case ; the great thinning of 

 the wall at the temporal foss?e; pronounced depression for the 

 cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube, and two slit-like 

 infra-orbital foramina. The latter are situated five lines below the 

 orbit, and associated with a canal extending outward and backward. 

 The infra-orbital canal is eight lines long. 



With all these peculiarities the muscular impressions are weak; 

 the mastoid processes of ordinary proportions, and the styloid 

 processes very small. 



Dr. Allen concluded that the inner or true cranial plate had 

 been ouer-developed. The outer plate remained nearly the same, 

 excepting at the base of the pterygoid process. 



Variations in the skull can be arranged in three groups. (1) 

 Those peculiar to modification in tiie form of the entire skull, due 

 to arrests or excesses in 'development. (2) Those due to plus 

 development of the inner or true plate. (3) Those due to trac- 

 tion of muscles. This latter causes no change on the inner plate, 

 unless the error occurs at an early age. Ordinarily, muscular 

 action art'ects the outer plate of the skull only. 



1. Oval foramen. 2. Abnormal foramen. 

 3. Accessory process. 4. Spinous process. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



February 29. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Fifty-nine members present. 



The meeting having adjourned until March t, the following were 

 then elected members : — 



Jesse W. Starr, Crozer Griffith, James H. Windrim, "Wm. Harris 

 Kneass, Chas. Wilt, How^ard Spencer, Thomas S. Root, Jas. W. 

 McAllister, James Ridings, Horace F. Ja3'ne, George Biddle, 

 Geo. B. Dixon, James H. Ridings, Charles A. Blake, Robt. Wood, 

 John Meichel, Wm. S. Pine, Wm. L. Abbot, and J. Sergeant 

 Price. 



M. Alphonse Pinart, of Paris, and Edward T. Stevens, of Salis- 

 bur3', England, were elected correspondents. 



The committees to which thej^ had been referred recommended 

 the following papers to be published : — 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18Y6. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW GENERIC TYPE (BASSARICYON) OF 

 PROCYONID^ FROM COSTA RICA- 



BY J. A. ALLEN. 



The large collection of skulls and skins gathered by Professor 

 AV, M. Gabb during his scientific survej- of Costa Rica, and now 

 deposited in the National Museum at Wasliington, includes an 

 undescribed species of Procyonidse. This species forms also a 

 new generic type, and, furthermore, one which differs so widely 

 from the forms previouslj known as to warrant its consideration 

 as the type of a new sub-family, it being as unlike Nasua or 

 Frocyon as tliese genera are unlike each other. The new form is 

 at present represented in the collection bj' only a single skull 

 (Nat. Mus. No. 14,214), the skin that came with it (Nat. Mus. No, 

 12,237) having in some way been mislaid. The skull is that of a 

 ratlier aged individual, as shown bj' the obliteration of nearl}' all 

 of the sutures, and the somewhat worn state of the teeth, but is 

 in excellent condition with the exception of the loss of a few of 

 the teeth. 



The outline of the skull in profile (plate 1, fig. 1) is much as in 

 Procyon^ but tlie anterior portion is more depressed and is rela- 

 tively shorter and narrower ; the postorbital processes, however, 

 are much more developed, as much so as in Bassaris or Felis^ 

 and the temporal ridges are widely sepai'ated, even in old age. 

 As seen from above, the skull has quite a resemblance to that of 

 Bassa7^is, especiall}- in the large size of the orbits, the stronglj-^ 

 developed postorbital processes, and the wide interval between 

 the temporal ridges, in all these points resembling Bassai'is far 

 more than either Namia or Pr-ocyoii, its really nearest afflnes. The 

 auditor}^ bulke also difller widelj^ in form and position from those 

 of either Nasua or Procyon^ presenting in some respects features 

 that are exceptional among tlie carnivora. One of the most im- 

 portant cliaracters, iiowever, of the new t^'pe consists in the form 

 of the malar bone, which is greatly depressed and expands abruptly 

 outward in a nearl}^ horizontal plane from the alveolar border of 

 the maxilla, thus forming a nearly' horizontal, triangular expansion 

 beneath the orbit — a feature not possessed by any of its nearest 

 aflines, and only approximated in Bassaris and in the cats. This 




Proa AcaANdtSc.P>iilal8/'& 



A 



PL. I. 



^Ji*^ 



'^-^^^T'-^^^!!^ 



*£^' " 



IDiistrafed v.- ;he B^'-.-, : u;.. 



J.H.BIake, del. 



Bassaricyon Ga"b"bii. 





ISTG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



results in giving a breadtli to the skull at the anterior end of the 

 zygomatic arch but little less than that at its posterior end, at 

 which point the skull has its maximum width. The orbits are 

 relativel}^ twice the size of those of P?'ocyon, and being directed 

 considerably forward, give to the skull a quite cat-like aspect. In 

 consequence of the low origin of the malar bone, the small infra- 

 orbital foramen is placed very low, scarcely more than its breadth 

 above the alveolar border of the maxilla. 



In respect to other features, the dentition is much as in 



Procyon and Nasua I M. — C I. — ^ = 40 ). The canines, 



^ \ 6 1 3 = 20 / 



however, are smaller than in Nasua, and the molars are shorter 



and more nearly'- square than in either this genus or Procyon, as 



shown by the subjoined table of measurements : — 



Length. Width. 



Bassaric3'on Gabbii, 1st upper molar . . 0.15 0.17 



Nasua Sumichrasti, " " " . . .30 .27 



Procjon " Hernaudezii," " " " . . .34 .35 



Bassaricyon Gabbii, 2d upper molar . . .19 .20 



Nasua Sumichrasti, " " " . . .33 .30 



Procyon "Hernandezii," " " " . . .37 .33 



Bassaricyon Gabbii, 3d upper molar . . .14 .14 



Nasua Sumichrasti, " " " . . .30 .38 



Procyon "Hernandezii," " " " . . .28 .34 



Bassaricyon Gabbii, 1st lower molar . . .15 .13 



Nasua Sumichrasti, " " " . . .32 .18 



Procyon "Hernaudezii," " " " . . .28 .18 



Bassaricyon Gabbii, 2d lower molar . . .17 .15 



Nasua Sumichrasti, " " " . . .37 .20 



Procyon " Hernandezii," " " " . , .42 .30 



Bassaricyon Gabbii, 3d lower molar . . .20 .17 



Nasua Sumichrasti, " u u _ 33 24 



Procyon " Hernandezii," " " " . . .41 .35 



In the present species the last upper molar is nearly quadrate 

 with rounded angles ; in Procyon it is subtriangular, with the 

 inner and posterior outer angles rounded ; in Nasua it has the 

 same form as in Procyon, except that the posterior outer angle is 

 sharp. 



The palate is flat, not arched as in Procyon and Nasua, and 

 well produced posteriorly. The auditory bullee are greatly swollen 

 posteriori}' ; depressed and laterally compressed anteriorl3\ The 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



basi-occipital margin of the bulla is deflected inward, so that pos- 

 teriorly the bullas converge, just the reverse of what obtains in 

 Procyo7i, in which the bullae diverge posteriorly, and are most swol- 

 len and deflected anteriorly. In Nasua the auditory bullai are 

 placed much as in Procyon, but they are more globular, and are 

 well developed anteriorly. The converging of the bulla? posteriorly 

 rarely occurs among the Carnivora. The pterygoid processes are 

 relatively smaller than in Procyon and Nasua; the paroccipital 

 and mastoid processes are but slightly instead of strongl}'^ de- 

 veloped, and the paroccipital are not incurved. The anterior end 

 of the intermaxillfe is more pointed than in Procyon, but less so 

 than in Nasua. 



The lower jaw difiers from that of Procyon in its straight instead 

 of slightly concave alveolar border, straighter lower border, and 

 more diverging coronoid process. The coronoid process is also 

 nearly straight on the anterior border to its apex, instead of 

 greatly rounded, and is much less hollowed posteriorly. The 

 apex of the coronoid is also pointed, and is situated in a line with 

 its anterior border. The angle of the jaw is also much less de- 

 veloped, and the inferior dental canal opens considerably more 

 posteriori}^ than in Procyon. In most of these points the lower 

 jaw much more closely resembles that of Nasua than that of 

 Procyon. 



The skull indicates an animal as small or smaller than Bassaris 

 astuta — decidedly smaller than Bassaris Sumichrasti — and hence 

 not more than one-fourth the size of the smallest known form of 

 either Procyon or Nasua, as indicated by the following table of 




1876.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



23 



Measurements of Skulls of Procyon, Nasua, Bassaris, and Bassaricyon. 



The loss of the skin renders it impossible to now properly cha- 

 racterize the species, but as it is presumabl}- only temporarily 

 mislaid, we hope soon be able to make known its external charac- 

 ters. The large size and position of the orbits, and the large 

 bullae, seem to indicate an animal of nocturnal habits. It is 

 also evidently rather rare, or very difficult to obtain, since Pro- 

 fessor Gabb's collection, which embraces very large series of all 

 the more common species, contains but a single example of this. 



For the genus I propose the name Bassaricyon^ in allusion to 

 its strong resemblance in several features to Bassaris, and for the 

 species that of Gabbii, in recognition of Professor Gabb's in- 

 valuable contributions to our knowledge of the zoology and gene- 

 ral natural history of the Republic of Costa Rica. As the species 

 differs more from either Nasua or Procyon than the latter do from 

 each other, it seems to form a tj-pe quite as well entitled to rank 

 as a sub-family of the Procyonidae as do either of the others, and 

 maj' hence be called Bassaricyoninee. 




24 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1876. 



DESCRIPTION OF A MONSTROSITY. 



BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M.D. 



I am indebted to Dr. James Ogden, of Paschalville, Philadel- 

 phia, for the opportunit}^ of dissecting the monstrosity, of the 

 general appearance of which, tlie illustration gives a good idea. 

 I learn from the doctor that the father and mother are both co- 

 lored people. The mother is only 18 years old, and has had one 

 child. The children were born dead. The labor lasted 12 hours, 

 the head of the right child presenting first. There was but one 

 placenta. 



As regards their mode of attachment, the children were joined 

 together anteriorly by a common sternum and posteriorly b}^ the 

 ribs, the left ribs of the right child being joined to the right ribs 

 of the left. (In my description the children are supposed to be 

 lying upon their backs.) There were two distinct vertebral col- 

 umns ; the heads and necks were quite separate and freely movable. 

 The right upper and lower extremities of right child and the left 

 upper and lower extremities of left child were normal. The two 

 inner anus seemed to be represented in a rudimentary condition 




IStG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



by a lump growing out of a scapula more or less divided into two. 

 The inner clavicles of the children were united. The bone was 

 found fractured, this being caused no doubt in labor. The inner 

 legs of the children were fused into one, which articulated with 

 the acetabulum formed b}^ the inner innominates. The foot exhi- 

 bited eight toes. Five of these belonged to the left foot of right 

 child and three to right foot of left child. The pelves were double. 

 The left innominate of right child was fused with the right inno- 

 minate of left child. 



Circulatorxj Apparatus. — There were tw^o distinct hearts with 

 a sinus between them, which received the innominate veins and 

 opened into the right and left auricles of the heart of the right 

 child and the right auricle of the heart of tlie left child. The heart 

 of the left child was twice as large as that of the right, the common 

 carotids in both children arose by a single trunk from their re- 

 spective aortas. The outer subclavians were normal, the inner 

 ones feebly developed. The two aortas were well developed, but 

 there was but one hj'pogastric artery ; this, however, was large, 

 and came off from the aorta of left child. Two pairs of lungs 

 were present. 



Alimentary Apparatus. — While there were two distinct stom- 

 achs, the two small intestines, however, united twenty-seven inches 

 above the cajcum to form one large intestine, which terminated in a 

 single rectum with one anus. The two livers were continuous, the 

 umbilical vein divided into two branches, one for each liver. The 

 two pancreas' were massed together, but only one spleen was seen. 



The Genito-urinary Ajjparatus. — Four kidneys were found, 

 those of left child lying rather loosely in the abdominal cavity ; 

 the}' exhibited enormous ureters which terminated in a bladder iu 

 front of the uterus of the left child. As there was no external 

 opening, their size arose possibly from their chronic dilatation by 

 urine. The kidneys of the right child were found in their normal 

 condition, their ureters terminated in a bladder which was seen 

 lying in front of the uterus of right child. The uterus of tlie 

 right child terminated in a bifid vagina with two external open- 

 ings ; the uterus of left child was longer and narrower than that 

 of right ; its vagina was imperforate. The rectum lay between 

 the two uteri. 



Rejlection on the Cause of Monstrosities It is well known 



that there are two views offered b}' pliysiologists as expl*"uations 

 3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



of the formation of monstrosities : either they are to be regarded 

 as due to the fusion of two individuals, or the secondary indi- 

 vidual is to be considered as having budded from the first. As 

 an argument in favor of this latter view there is instanced the 

 fact of there having been found in one yolk two embryos more 

 or less nnited. While the fact is true, the inference that such 

 embryos have been developed from one germ cannot be drawn 

 until it has been shown that such a yolk has not resulted from 

 the fusion of two yolks while in the oviducts. As an objection to 

 the former view, it is urged that as the presence of an additional 

 finger or toe is merely regarded as an exhibition of extra nutrition, 

 a sort of budding, to be consistent an almost perfect secondary 

 individual should also be regarded as such, inasmuch as there 

 exists a gradual series between the very simple malformations and 

 the more complex ones, and further, if an additional finger for 

 example has resulted from the fusion of two individuals, what has 

 become of the rest of the secondary being? It may be answered 

 that the presence of an exta'a finger cannot be fairly compared 

 with that of a secondary- system, alimentar}', circulatory, etc., well 

 developed. Again, it is quite conceivable in certain cases that only 

 a part of a secondary individual should develop and the rest 

 atrophy. While not denying that there can be budding from cer- 

 tain parts, it appears to me that a fact like that just described 

 of two intestines fusing into one, with the remaining organs 

 double and full}' developed, is more readilj- understood by sup- 

 posing that two individuals have been joined together than that 

 one has budded from the other. The ditferent pups in a litter are 

 developed from distinct ova. Most authorities consider human 

 twins as having the same origin. It seems a natural inference, 

 therefore, that a monstrosity such as I have just described is the 

 result of the union of two individuals in the early stages of ges- 

 tation. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



DESCRIPTION OF NEW SPECIES OF FOSSILS FROM PALEOZOIC ROCKS 



OF IOWA. 



BY CHARLES A. WHITE, M.D. 



RADIATA. 

 ACTINOZOA. 



Genus CHJETETES, Fischer. 

 ChaetetesMuscatinensis (n. s.)- 



Pol3'pary not iisnall}- large or massive, but generally encrusting 

 some object, upon which it attains considerable thickness b}^ con- 

 centric layers; cells exceedingly slender, but under a good lens 

 they show their numerous septa and the slight constriction o^ the 

 cells between them quite distinctl3\ 



This species seems never to become ramose, or even elongated 

 except b}^ encrusting some elongated object ; bj- this habit and the 

 unusual minuteness of the cells it may be distinguished from all 

 other species. 



Position and localitij. — Devonian strata, near Muscatine, Iowa. 



Genus MONTICTJLIPORA, D'Orbigny. 

 Monticulipora monticula (n. s.)- 



Polvpary usuall}' consisting of small expanded masses, flat or 

 concave below, convex above, thin at the edges, but the middle 

 portion being thickened and considerably elevated ; the upper sur- 

 face having the papillary elevations peculiar to the genus and the 

 under side sometimes having the appearance of being provided 

 with an epitheca ; cells of ordinary size, not radiating from a com- 

 mon centre but extending upward more or less perpendicularly 

 with the plane of the base of the polypary. 



The uniformity of habit of this species is its most distinguish- 

 ing characteristic, and b}' which it may be readily recognized. 



Position and locality. — Devonian strata, Iowa City, Iowa. 



Genus LOPHOPHYLLUM, Edward et Hairne. 

 Lophophyllum expansum (n. s.). 



Corallum broadly conical, slightl}^ curved, transverse section 

 subcircular, calyx broad, not deep ; ra^-s numerous ; septal fos- 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



sette not veiy distinct, situated at the convex side of the corallum ; 

 columella prominent, laterally flattened so as to form a more or 

 less sharp edge along its crest. 



This species is proportionall}' much broader than usual, and 

 when its interior structure is better known it may possibly be 

 found to belong to the genus Axophyllum, but its external charac- 

 ters seem to warrant its reference to Lophoj^hyllum. 



Height of corallum and diameter of calyx each about two centi- 

 metres. 



Position and locality. — Keokuk limestone (subcarboniferous), 

 Henry County, Iowa. 



ECHINODERMATA. 



Genus STROBILOCYSTITES (n. g.). 



Body ovoid or subspherical; pectinated apertures forming three 

 inclosed rhombic areas, one on each of the four parts of the body 

 except the posterior part ; those of the two lateral parts situated 

 above the middle of the body, and that of the anterior part below 

 the middle ; ovarian aperture distinct, situated a little below the 

 summit of the posterior side ; the four principal arm-grooves dis- 

 tinct, radiating from the summit as far as, or below, the middle; 

 small secondary' arm-grooves extending obliquely downward from 

 each side of the principal grooves, their length and distribution 

 being made irregular b3' the presence and unsymmetrical position 

 of the pectinated rhombs. 



The principal plates are probably similar to those of Callocys- 

 titen^hut our examples do not show their shapes distinctly ; the 

 secondary plates bordering and near the arm-grooves numerous 

 and small. 



Two specimens only of the species representing this genus have 

 been discovered. One of these is very imperfect, and the other, 

 although in a comparatively good state of preservation, does not 

 show clearly the arrangement of all the plates. Enough, however, 

 is shown of its structure to separate it from any described genus. 

 It is also, so far as I am aware, the first cystidian ever found in 

 Devonian rocks, the family having hitherto been regarded as cha- 

 racteristic of Silurian strata. 



Strobilocystites Calvini (n. s.)- 



Body subovoid in form ; principal arm-grooves distinct, extend- 

 ing nearly to the base of the body ; the two antero-lateral and the 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



two postero-lateral grooves respectively coalescing before they 

 reach the summit, across wliich continuous connection is made with 

 all of them b}' a short groove ; the front, and the two lateral parts, 

 of nearly equal width ; the posterior part narrower than either of 

 the others, and bearing the ovarian orifice a little below its summit ; 

 the pectinated rhombs divided longitudinally by a distinct suture ; 

 the rhomb of the left side situated about one-third the height of 

 the body below its summit, the direction of the long diameter being 

 nearly at right angles with the axis of the bod}', and its length a 

 little more than two-thirds the full width of the side : the rhomb 

 of the right side situated at about the same distance below the 

 summit as that of the left, but its long diameter is nearlj^ vertical 

 and twice as great as its transverse diameter; tlie rhomb of the 

 front side situated near the base, its long diameter being obliquely 

 transverse with the axis of the bod}', and its shape and size being 

 similar to that of the left side ; secondary plates small, tumid, 

 placed in alternating series along each side of the arm-grooves, 

 and outside of these first rows there are other similar pieces, some 

 of which alternate with the first, but others are more irregularly 

 distributed, all giving the surface a papillose appearance. 



Column and appendages unknown. 



Height of body eighteen millimetres ; transverse diameter thir- 

 teen millimetres. 



Specific name given in honor of its discoverer. Professor Samuel 

 Calvin of the Iowa State Universit3\ 



Position and locality. — Devonian strata, Iowa City, Iowa. 



Genus MEGISTOCRINUS, Owen. 

 Megistocrinus Farnsworthi (n. s.). 



Body below the arms moderately deep, its sides slightl}'^ ex- 

 panded, but broadly convex below, and its immediate base a little 

 concave ; dome broadly convex, composed of numerous small 

 tumid pieces, and apparently having a short, sub-central probos- 

 cis; arms sixteen, four to each of the postero-lateral, and to the 

 anterior rays, and two to eacli of the autero-lateral rays ; the basal 

 series of pieces moderately large, sliglitlj' concave, more than half 

 its diameter covered by the last joint of the column; the anal 

 series of pieces occupying a comparativel}' broad space ; the plates 

 generally, having the proportions, shapes, and arrangement common 

 to the genus ; the central portion of all the plates is prominent, or 




30 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1816. 



they have their borders so depressed as to produce the appeai"- 

 ance of central prominence to the plates, and of broad sutures 

 between them. 



Height of calyx fourteen millimetres ; diameter of body at the 

 base of the arms, twenty-seven millimetres. 



This species differs from 31. latus Hall, from rocks of the same 

 age in Iowa, by its smaller size, its tumid plates and depressed 

 sutures, and in having only sixteen arras instead of twenty, as in 

 that species. 



Specific name given in honor of Professor P. J. Farnsworth, of 

 •the Iowa State Universit}', who first discovered it. 



Position and locality. — Devonian strata, Iowa Cit}', Iowa. 



MOLLUSCA. 

 BRACHIOPODA. 



Genus STRICKLANDINIA, Billings. 

 Stricklandinia castellana (n. s.)- 



Shell moderately large, sublenticular, broadly subovate or sub- 

 circular in marginal outline ; valves almost equall}' convex. 



Dorsal valve usually showing a slightly elevated, indistinctly 

 defined mesial fold, which is quite narrow upon the posterior por- 

 tion of the valve, but widens toward the front, of adult shells ; 

 umbo broadly convex; beak not prominent. 



Yentral valve usually having a slight flattening of the antero- 

 median portion, corresponding with the indistinct fold of the other 

 valve; umbo broadl}' convex; beak not prominent, projecting 

 backward little if any beyond the beak of the other valve ; area 

 distinct, narrow, its length less than half the greatest width of 

 the shell. 



Surface of both valves marked by numerous, rather coarse, radi- 

 ating, more or less recurving, angular or sharply rounded plica- 

 tions, of unequal size and separated by spaces of unequal width. 



Length and breadth of the largest example discovered, each 

 forty -two millimetres; thickness, both valves together, twentj'-one 

 millimetres. 



Position and locality. — Niagara limestone, Upper silurian, near 

 Castle Grove, Jones County, Iowa. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



CONCHIFERA. 



Genus PARACYCLAS, Hall. 

 Paracyclas Sabiai (n. s). 



Shell sublenticular ; subcircular or subovate in marginal out- 

 line ; beaks small, approximate, pointing forward, elevated little 

 if any above that portion of the dorsal margin which lies behind 

 thera, but considerably above that portion in front of them; dorsal, 

 posterior and basal margins forming nearly one uniform curve, 

 but the prominent front, which is the narrowest and thinnest part 

 of the shell, has its margin more abruptl}' rounded ; ligament 

 small, slight!}' prominent, but it is made apparently more promi- 

 nent b}- two distinct, moderately deep narrow grooves, one on 

 each side of it, which extend from between the beaks backward, 

 and become obsolete upon the postero-dorsal region ; valves 

 broadly and nearh' uniforral}- convex, the surface being marked 

 by ordinary lines and slight undulations of growth. 



Length of the most perfect example discovered, seventeen milli- 

 metres ; height fifteen millimetres ; thickness eight millimetres. 

 The proportionate thickness of full\' adult shells is usuallv much 

 greater than that here given. 



Tlie specific name is given in honor of Mr. A. H. Sabin, of 

 Mason Cit}-, Iowa. 



Position and locality. — Devonian strata at Rockford, Flo3-d 

 County, Iowa. 



Genus ALLOBISMA, King. 

 AUorisma Marionensis (n. s.). 



Shell small, elongate, ventricose anteriorly, and laterally flat- 

 tened behind, where it is usualh' a little broader from base to 

 dorsal margin than the anterior portion is ; umbones prominent, 

 elevated ; beaks incurved, placed far forward ; dorsal margin 

 straight or slightly concave ; postero-dorsal margin sloping back- 

 ward to the posterior extremity, the greatest prominence of which 

 is at, or a little below, midheight of the adult shell; base broadly 

 rounded or straightened about midwa}' where the slight umbonal 

 flattening of each valve meets it. 



Surface marked b}' the ordinary concentric lines and undulations 

 of growth. 



Length twentj'-eight millimetres ; height thirteen millimetres. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T6. 



A few examples have been obtained that are about one-third 

 larger than that of which the dimensions are here given, but it is 

 an unusually small species. 



Position and locality St. Louis limestone (subcarboniferous) 



of Marion and Mahaska Counties, Iowa, where it is sometimes 

 found quite plentiful, in both the calcareous and magnesiau layers 

 of that formation. 



GASTEROPODA. 



Genus BELLEROPHON, Montfort. 

 Bellerophon Bowmani (n. s). 



Shell small, somewhat flattened vertically; umbilici small, and 

 sometimes nearlj- or quite closed by the overlapping of the callus- 

 like, slightly reflexed expansion of the postero-lateral portions of 

 the margin of the aperture ; volutions broadly convex both later- 

 ally and longitudinally; aperture comparative!}^ large, but the 

 external margin is not reflexed or flattened by its expansion ; 

 mesial band distinct, slightly raised ; mesial notch not deep. 



Surface marked b\^ numerous concentric folds which are crossed 

 b}' revolving raised lines of nearl}- the same size, giving the sur- 

 face a neatly cancellated appearance. 



Length eight millimetres ; breadth of aperture the same; height, 

 Ij'ing with its aperture downward upon the table, five milli- 

 metres. 



Specific name in honor of Mr. S. C. Bowman, of Andalusia, 111., 

 who first discovered it at that place. 



Position and locality. — Devonian strata. New Buffalo, Iowa, and 

 Andalusia, Illinois. 



Genus EUOMPHALTJS, Sowerby. 

 Euomphalus Spriugvalensis (n. s). 



Shell rather large ; spine much extended for a species of this 

 genus ; volutions six or seven, graduall}' increasing in size from 

 the apex to the aperture ; flattened upon the distal or upper side, 

 regularly and continuous!}^ rounded upon the outer and proximal 

 sides, and into the deep umbilicus; aperture nearly circular, its 

 outline being modified on!}' b}' the slight flattening of the distal 

 side and the short contact of the preceding volution. 



Length about five and a half centimetres; breadth of last volu- 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



tion seven centimetres ; diameter of aperture twentj'-three milli- 

 metres. 



Position and locality. — Kinderhook formation (Subcarbon- 

 iferous), Spriugvale, Humboldt Count}', Iowa. 



PTEROPODA. 



Genus CONULARIA, Miller. 

 Conularia Molaris (n. s.)- 



Shell having the ordinary four-sided conical shape, each side 

 having an indistinct very faintly impressed longitudinal line, not 

 placed in the middle of the side but nearer to one angle than the 

 other, each angle having the adjacent lines at equal distances, 

 these distances being of course greater from two of the angles than 

 from the other two. Surface marked by fine, sharply raised, 

 minutely crenulated, transverse lines, which present the convexity 

 of a broad curve tov/ard the front as they cross the sides, but 

 bend very slightly forward at the angles, the grooves of which 

 most of them cross continuously to the adjacent side. These 

 raised lines are at slightl}' irregular distances apart, the distance 

 being usually a little greater than their own width. A cast of a 

 portion of the interior of the shell shows that the inner surface has 

 also markedl}^ slightly raised lines corresponding with those upon 

 the outer surface, and opposite, instead of alternating with them. 

 In the case of mending a fracture of the shell while the mollusk 

 was living, the lines appear to have never been reproduced. 



Position and locality. — Devonian strata, Troy Mills, Linn 

 County, Iowa. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



Genus CYRTOCERAS, Goldfuss. 

 Cyrtoceras dictyum (n. s.)- 



Shell not large, curvature broad ; section elliptical, the longer 

 diameter of the ellipse being transverse. 



Surface marked by fourteen narrow, longitudinal raised ribs, 

 placed at unequal but symmetrical distances from each other, thus : 

 One at each lateral side, a little exterior to the transverse 

 diameter, where it produces a more or less distinct angularitj'; 

 six between these on the inner or incurved surface, all nearly equal 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



distances from each other; and six upon the outer surface. The 

 spaces between these last-named ribs are nearly equal except 

 those between the first two ribs on each side of the central space, 

 ■which are narrower than any of the others. Crossing these ribs 

 are distinct lines and sharp undulations of growth, which bend 

 backward more or less distinctly between all the ribs, but much 

 more so between the two middle ribs upon the outer surface. 



The inflexion is so great at the margin of the aperture as to pro- 

 duce a distinct notch there, resembling that of some species of 

 Bellerophon. 



The only portion of this species 3'et discovered is nearly or quite 

 the whole of the outer chamber ; none of the septa being shown, 

 but the surface markings are so peculiar that the species may be 

 readily identified b}^ these alone. 



Transverse diameter of the aperture, about four centimeters ; 

 the shorter diameter, about three centimeters. 



Position and locality. — Devonian strata, Troy Mills, Linn 

 County, Iowa. 



ARTICULATA. 

 Vermes. 



Genus TENTACULITES, Schlotheim. 

 Tentaculites Hoyti (n. s.)- 



Shell moderately large ; marked bj^ strong, sharply elevated 

 annulations, separated by spaces considerably greater tlian their 

 own width; spaces and annulations regularl}- decreasing in width 

 towards the apex, where they are both minute, and both more 

 nearly equal than at its larger end. , 



Average length, about fifteen millimeters ; diameter of aperture, 

 nearly two millimeters. Specific name given in honor of Mr, B. 

 F. Hoyt. 



Position and locality. — Devonian strata, Iowa Cit}', Iowa. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



March 7. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Forty-six members present. 



A paper entitled " On Pachnolite and Thomsenolite," b}- Geo. 

 Aug. Koenig, Ph.D., was presented for publication. 



On Pre-liistoric Relics. — Prof. IIaldeman exhibited some pre- 

 historic antiquities, part of a collection he had recenth' disin- 

 terred from a recess in a cliff at his residence on the Snsqnehanna. 

 The remains include about 200 fragments of pottery, 150 stone 

 arrow-heads, together with stone chisels, tomahawks, mallets, flake 

 knives, broken pebbles, and chips left from the manufacture of 

 arrows, and fragments of bones of various animals. The3' occurred 

 in a rich, black mould, thirtj- inches deep, and from the decom- 

 posed condition of some of the arrows and chisels, we may pre- 

 sume that the retreat was occupied for not less than two thousand 

 years, but not within the last two hundred, as no articles of 

 European trade were found, such as glass beads and objects of 

 iron, which occur in the Indian graves of the vicinity, and which 

 could be procured at the mouth of the Susquehanna as earl}' as 

 1631. The discovery is important from the number of objects 

 found in a definite locality. 



March 14. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirtj'-seven members present. 



Additional Note on the Spanish 3Ioss — Tillandsia usneoides. — 

 Referring to some recent remarks before the Academy, Mr. Thos. 

 Meehan said the Tillandsia usneoides was an epiphyte and not a 

 parasite, as stated by Elliott in his botany, and it increased by 

 small pieces blowing from tree to tree, and very rarel}' by seeds. 



In a recent visit to an old orange orchard on the shores of Lake 

 Ponchartrain, seven miles below New Orleans, where the increasing 

 level of the waters of the lake had made a subsoil too wet for 

 the trees, and thus caused a large proportion of them to be in 

 a dead or drying condition, he had had an excellent opportunity 

 to stud}' within e3'e reach the development and propagation of the 

 Tillandsia. As before stated, nearly all the increase was from 

 the scattered pieces of the plant, which attached itself by twisting 

 of the branches or leaves, and then went on increasing its growth 




36 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



annually. Here and there on the trees a seed had evidently 

 started a 3'oung plant, and it was remarkable to note that these 

 cases were always on the under side of the branches, the young 

 plant growing straight down. As these branches were very 

 smooth, it becomes a problem how the seed attach themselves to 

 this under surface so as to remain and germinate. Some of the 

 young plants which Mr. Meehan exhibited were taken from dead 

 branches, as well as from living ones, showing the plant's true 

 epiphytal character. 



On the Age and Origin of certain Quartz Veins. — Prof. Per- 

 siFOR Frazer, Jr., exhibited a fragment of hornblendic dolerite 

 which was found in York Comity, intersected by a vein of quartz. 

 The alteration of the former along the planes of contact was indi- 

 cated by bands of half an inch or more of darker color than the 

 rest of the specimen. Within the A^ein of quartz are observed 

 many fragments — some of them angular, of nearly the same ap- 

 pearance as the altered portions of dolerite. This occurrence is 

 interesting in view of the light which it throws on the origin of 

 some quartz veins. Had the quartz been thrust up from below 

 in a molten condition (as some geologists have believed possible), 

 its combination with the basic constituents of the neighboring 

 dolerite would have followed as a matter of course. The small 

 fragments would have dissolved in it, and there would have been 

 no sharp line of demarcation between the two rocks. 



Even had the gelatinous silica (orthosilicic acid) been main- 

 tained at a high temperature during its transition into quartz, it 

 seems almost certain that it would have exerted a considerable 

 chemical action upon the trap, producing compounds richer in 

 silica, while the smaller fragments imbedded in it would have left 

 traces of their former position in colored spots throughout the 

 vein. The infiltration was probably slow, and the solution at a 

 moderate temperature, but chemical action progressed slowly 

 through the contact walls, resulting in their partial alteration. 



In connection with this subject he called attention to a paper 

 by Lowthian Bell on the " Whin-Stones," or traps of the north 

 of England (Proc. Royal Soc), replete with analyses, and in 

 which the author advances hypotheses as to the depths to which 

 alterations of sedimentary strata by intrusive rocks takes place, 

 and as to the volatility of the generall}' supposed unvolatile sub- 

 stances, which are remarkable, and, from the high authority of 

 Mr. Bell in iron metallurg}-, worthy of attention. 



ITineralogical Notes. — Dr. Geo. A. Koentg said, that, having 

 been engaged upon the investigation of the minerals occurring at 

 Magnet Cove, Arkansas, for some time past, he desired to give a 

 preliminar}' notice of some of his results, reserving the details for 

 a memoir, which he hoped to place before the Acadeni}' at a future 

 date. Some of his observations were communicated to the Na- 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 37 



tional Acfidemy of Science at its last meeting, but have not been 

 publislied. From a mineral, resembling schorlomite ver^' much as 

 to its physical properties, he obtained in the place of titannic acid 

 a while oxide^ which differed from the latter in a number of im- 

 portant reactions XQvy considerably. In the fragment anal3'zed, 

 it was contained to the amount of 30 per centum. However, in 

 this, there is comprised a certain quantity of titannic acid. Owing 

 mostly to the want of material, he had, hitherto, been unable to 

 eflfect a satisfactory separation. Some of the reactions are so pecu- 

 liar, that the existence in it of a neic metal is higldy probable. 

 However, the nature of titannic acid itself, with the study of which 

 he was now engaged as a preliminar}', is yet so little understood, 

 that he refrained from a positive statement for the present. From 

 the same mineral, from schorlomite, and from garnet, he had been 

 able to separate vanadic acid in amounts varying between 0.5 per 

 cent, and traces. This bod}^ w'as overlooked by the autliors who 

 analyzed some of the minerals before. Its pi'esence interferes to 

 some extent with the specific reaction of titannic acid before the 

 blowpipe. Having a strong coloring property, its green color 

 with microcosmic salt in the reducing flame is complementary 

 with the violet color of titannium in the same salt, so that a color- 

 less bead may be obtained, and the presence of the latter metal 

 or of both remains hidden. This w'as verified by experiment. For 

 the purpose of obtaining the true molecular composition of the 

 light-brown garnet, he had selected a very brilliant and pure crys- 

 tal of the combination cxO. 202.0 for analysis, reserving a suitable 

 fragment for a microscopic section. He had formed a hypothesis 

 in the course of this examination, about the molecular isomorph- 

 ism of calcium titannate (perowskite), and calcium iron silicate 

 (garnet), and to prove this, it was necessary to learn the true con- 

 stitution of the latter molecule. He had obtained in due course, 

 about 6 per cent, of titannic acid, acting very similarly with the 

 problematic oxide, above described. Now it was clear, that this 

 garnet was not a homogeneous compound. The microscopic slide 

 exhibited characters corroborating this assumption. Around an 

 opaque nucleus was found a yellow, transparent substance (gar- 

 net) in concentric layers, following the outline of the dodecahe- 

 dron. The layers separated hy dark lines, which dissolved lender 

 a high power into a series of opaque particles. The striation re- 

 sembles the structure of agate. What is the opaque substance? 

 Is it schorlomite (the specific nature of which he doubted), is it 

 perowskite, or is it brookite ? 



He hoped to be able to answer these questions in time. It was 

 but another instance showing that the results of an analysis 

 from an apparently homogeneous material cannot be utilized for 

 the construction of a trustworth}- formula, unless the mineral is 

 examined opticall3^ Those cases are excepted where the atomic 

 ratios are simple, and the affinities untortured. 



The death of Joseph H. Dulles was announced. 




38 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[18*76. 



March 21. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberqer, in the chair. 

 Forty-six members present. 



Ifastodon andium — Prof. Leidy directed attention to a spe- 

 cimen consisting of the greater part of the left ramus of the 

 lower jaw of Mastodon andiura. It belonged to a mature indi- 

 vidual, and contains the last true molar in functional position. 

 The penultimate molar had been shed, and its alveoli are partially 

 obliterated. The crown of the retained molar presents four trans- 

 verse ridges, besides a strong tubercular talon. It measures H 

 inches fore and aft, and 3 transversely. The specimen was obtained 

 by Dr. Isaac T. Coates, of Chester, Pa., from a land slide, at 

 Tarrapota, near the town of Chasuta, on the Huallaga River, a 

 branch of the Amazon, in 7° south latitude. 



On. Natural Inarching. — Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that 

 observations on natural inarching among forest trees were com- 

 mon, but now and then were some incidental phenomena worthy 

 of note, an instance of which, on a Hemlock Spruce on the grounds 

 of Amos Little, Esq., of Germantown, was recently brought to 

 his notice. 



In this case, a branch had ascended to one above, and appeared 

 to have pierced through it, coming out on the upper side; and the 

 pierced branch, beyond the point of union, had 

 increased to nearlj^ double the size of the part 

 below. The illustration on the black-board was 

 simply from memory, but served to show the 

 position and proportions of the branches. In 

 this case, the upper portion of the seemingly 

 penetrating branch had died soon after the 

 union, and the annual deposits of wood had, of 

 course, in time surrounded it, making it appear 

 very nearly in the centre. The lower portion 

 had continued to live, and all its nutritive collec- 

 tions had gone to feed the branch to which it had become attached. 

 A plant growing in rich soil would make shoots perhaps double the 

 thickness of the same growing in poor soil; in other words, the 

 size of a branch was proportionate to the amount of nutrition at 

 its command. In this case, two branches feeding one main one, 

 gave that branch a double advantage on the score of nutrition, 

 and its increased size naturall}' followed. 



Many strange phenomena reported in the newspapers in connec- 

 tion with natural inarching may, no doubt, be as easily' explained, 

 if all the details were correctly reported. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



On the Tseniodonta, a neio group of Eocene Mammalia — Prof. 

 Cope described the characters of some mammalia from the Eocene 

 of New Mexico, obtained by him during the Wheeler expedition 

 of 1874, which he regarded as allied to the Insectivora. The feet 

 are armed with compressed claws. The dental characters are seen 

 first in the supposed superior incisors. Unfortunately, they have 

 not yet been found in place in the cranium, but their association 

 with a rodent type of inferior incisors, which have been found in 

 place in the mandible, confines us to the alternative choice between 

 superior incisors and canines. From the small size, or absence, of 

 inferior canines, a similar character may be inferred for the supe- 

 rior canines. 



These superior incisors present two bands of enamel, an anterior 

 and a posterior. They are compressed in form, the sides pre- 

 senting a surface of dentine or ceraentum. Attrition produces a 

 truncate or slightly concave extremity. The inferior incisors are 

 rodent-like. 



Two families represented this suborder in the Eocene period in 

 New Mexico. Tlie first, or Ecioganidse, possesses molar teeth 

 with several roots ; in the Calamodonfidae, each molar has a 

 simple conic fang. But one genus of each family is known. In 

 both the enamel of the molars is principally a band on the outer 

 side of the crown ; the deficiency is supplied in Calamodon by a 

 deposit of cementum, which invests the molar and superior incisor 

 teeth, covering the crowns, excepting where the enamel bands are 

 present. The latter investment is so much thinner, that the 

 cementum forms a raised border all round at the point of junction 

 of the two substances. The general structure of Calamodon 

 affords some points of approximation to the Edentata, which 

 indicate that the Tseniodonta partiall}^ fill the interval between 

 that order and the Insectivora, presented b}^ the existing fauna. 



Prof. Cope also pointed out tlie close resemblance between the 

 mandibular dentition of the cotemporary Eocene genus Esthonyx, 

 and the existing Er^inaceus, and stated that that of Anchijypodus 

 and allies chiefly differs from the latter in the persistent growth of 

 the incisor teeth. 



On Tantalite from Yancey County, North Carolina. — Dr. Geo. A. 

 KoENiG spoke of a mineral from Yance}' County, North Carolina. 

 It occurs there with ber^dl, samarskite, columbite, spessartite, and 

 other rare and interesting minerals. It is found in large massive 

 pieces, has a black color and metallic lustre, streak dark reddish 

 brown to black. The specimen in my possession weighs about a 

 pound. It posesses three crystal faces, two of which are at right 

 angles, all three in the same zone. One face is large, smooth, 

 and bright, the other two are rough and uneven, and lirown from 

 ferric hydrate. There appears to be an imperfect cleavage parallel 

 to the tAvo faces at rieht angle. Fracture uneven to sub-conchoidal. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Specific gravity =5.807 (made with 4.6 grms.) B. B. Infusible 

 and unaltered. With borax in oxidizing fl. dissolves in large 

 quantity, and gives a glass which is blood-red when cold (iron, 

 manganese). In reducing flame turns green, and when highly 

 charged a blood-red ; the same with tin or charcoal. With micro- 

 cosmic salt in reducing flame, light brown. 



The mineral decomposes readih' when fused with about six parts 

 of sodium hydros ulphate, the fused mass being yellowish when 

 cold. 



The analysis gave 



Metallic acid = 76.60 

 FeO = 14.07 

 MnO = 0.50 

 MgO = 7.70 



98.87 

 The metallic acid dissolves in very large quantities in microcosmic 

 salt, and the bead turns brown only upon complete saturation, 

 when treated with the reducing flame. From this behavior he 

 surmised the larger portion to be tantalic acid, and the smaller 

 portion to be hyponiobic acid. But in order to satisfy himself 

 more thoroughly, he converted the acids into the sodium salts by 

 fusing with sodium h^'drate. This fusion was extracted repeatedly 

 with cold water. From the liquid the acid was precipitated by 

 dilute sulphuric hydrate filtered under pressure, and the moist 

 precipitate treated with tin and hydrochloric acid to test for dianic 

 acid ; a dirty-blue mass was obtained, no blue solution, and the 

 absence of dianic acid was proven. The blue color was due to 

 hyponiobic acid. The larger portion of sodium salt had not been 

 dissolved in cold water, it was dissolved in boiling water and pre- 

 cipitated with dilute sulpliuric hydrate. The precipitate was 

 treated with zinc and very dilute sulphuric acid, wl^kence the white 

 metallic acid assumed a pale, bluish-gra}^ color, and is, therefore, 

 tantalic acid. Based upon these reactions, the mineral under ex- 

 amination must be pronounced a tantalite. 



It will be remarked that magnesium forms the principal basis 

 besides iron, and not manganese, as in other tantalites and colum- 

 bites, and this is, therefore, a distinct and new variety. 



He had endeavored to decompose the mineral in a sealed tube 

 under pressure, but failed to do so both with strong and weak 

 acid during several daj's' treatment. The question whether the 

 iron is ferrous or ferric could not be settled therefore, and in as- 

 suming it to be ferrous, he followed the example of the illustrious 

 Heinrich Rose. 



Being engaged for the present in other investigations, and 

 aware of Professor Allen's intention to increase our knowledge 

 of these compounds, he refrained from a more thorough examina- 

 tion of the quantitative proportions of the two acids in this 

 mineral. 




18TC.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



March 28. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-two members present. 



The death of Mr. John S. Phillips was announced. 



The following were elected members : John Akhurst, Chas. W. 

 Trotter, Chas. Roberts, Edw. K. Tryon, Edw. Potts, Pierre Mun- 

 zinger, W. H. Baker, M.D., Rathmell Wilson, Henry Pemberton, 

 J. S. Martin, John T. Lewis, James M. Rhoads, Benj. H. Smith, 

 Edward Tatnall, Jr., John Eckfeldt, M.D., Stuart Wood, and 

 Theodore L. Mead. 



Baron Ferd. Von Mueller, of Melbourne, Australia, and Prof. 

 Austin Flint, Jr., M.D., of New York, were elected correspond- 

 ents. 



The committee to which it had been referred recommended the 

 following paper to be published. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



ON PACHNOLITE AND THOMSENOLITE. 

 BY GEORGE AUG. KOENIG, PH.D. 



In a very able paper ("Ann. Chem. & Pharm.," vol. cxxvii. 61, 

 1863), A. Knop called the attention of mineralogists to two forms 

 of a mineral, which occurs incrustating the cryolite from Arksud- 

 fiord, Greenland. One kind he describes as rectangular parallelo- 

 pipedic crystals, which are possessed of three perfect, but unequal, 

 cleavage directions, parallel to the faces of the crystal, the latter 

 being mostly covered with ferric h3rdrate. The cleavage direc- 

 tions seemed to coincide with those of the underlying cryolite 

 (identified by quantitative analj^sis) ; but an accurate determina- 

 tion of the angles was not possible on account of insufficient re- 

 flecting power of the faces. Approximatel}^ they were found to 

 be 90°. 



The second form of crj'stals occurs in cavities, whose walls are 

 covered with brilliant, colorless, and transparent crystals. 



Both kinds were found chemically identical, and, therefore, be- 

 long to one mineral, to which Knop gave the very characteristic 

 name, Pachnolite — frost stone — from the frost needle-like incrus- 

 tations covering the cryolite. 



From measurements of the small crystals, thej' were found to 

 belong to the rhombic system, off'ering combinations of coP.P; 

 ooP.oP.P ; and ooP.oP. The first kind of crystals are of the com- 

 bination, probably, oP. ooP oo. ooP oo. The small ciystals show a 

 perfect basal cleavage. The angles were found ooP : ooP = 81°24 

 — 98°36' (mean of 12 determinations). P : ooP = 154°40 (mean 

 of 5 measurements). 



Other angles were deduced by calculation: — 



Specific gravity = 2.923. 



Composition found in mean 



F = 50.19 : 19 =2.673 6.202 



Al =1.3.14 : 27.5 = 0.4n 1.106 



Na= 12.16 : 23 =0530 1.206 



Ca =17.25 : 40 =0.431 1.000 



H0= 9.60 : 18 =0.533 1.236 



102.94 




18Y6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



9, there- 



This, however, is not a correct deduction, because Ca : Xa is 

 not 3 : 2, but much nearer 2 : 1, and the formula must necessa- 

 rily be 



|^^^|-F3+Al,F3+2Aq. 



Or, if we introduce the present atomic weights, the formula is 

 In':} F.+ AIF.+ Aq. 



or the empirical formula 



Al^ 



Cai-F,+ Aq. 

 Na) 



It will be seen from the foregoing that, taking the calcium as 

 unit, all the other atoms are too high, and that the anal3'sis adds 

 up to nearly 103.00, which is rather more than the mean from 

 several analyses should be. Considering, however, the nature of 

 the substance, too high a result is explicable, and the formula as 

 deduced by me, being of the greatest simplicity at the same time, 

 may be taken to represent fairh^ the molecule of Pachnolite. 



It is to be regretted that Knop does not state whether he used 

 the small brilliant crj^stals affording the above crystallographic 

 results, or whether he used the larger parallelopipedic cr3'stals, or 

 both. It should never be omitted to describe exactly the material 

 taken for analysis, and how it was selected. 



Knop's erroneous formula is admitted into Dana's " Handbook" 

 without challenge. 



Hagcmann also published an analysis of Pachnolite ("Am. 

 Journ." ii. xli. 119), which yields the following atomic ratio: — 




1 



44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Ca : Xa is nearer 2 : 1 than 3 : 2 (taking Ca = 20) as it is in 

 Knop's analysis, and confirms the above formula. 



Professor Dana, in the fifth edition of his " Handbook of Miner- 

 alogy," introduces a new species, Thomseiiolife, which had been 

 described by Hagemann ("Am. Journ, Sci." ii. xlii. 93) as Dimetric 

 PachnolUe. 



Hagemann made no crystallographic determinations, except 

 what may be adduced with the naked ej'e, and his description 

 coincides with that given by Knop for the variety A of PachnolUe^ 

 the parallelopipedic crystals of the combination ocP go, qoPoo .oP. 



According to Dana, the crj-stals are monoclinic prisms 89° — 91° 

 — 0a1=92° and 88". 



The faces of the prism are usuall^^ striated horizontally, cleav- 

 age basal, ver^'- perfect. 



Specific gravity, 2.14-2.16. Lustre vitreous, of a cleavage face 

 a little pearly, color white or with a reddish tinge. 



Composition. Na= 1, the ratio is 



F =50.08 : 19 =2.63 

 Al =14.21 : 21.5=0.515 

 Ca =14.51 : 40 =0.362 

 Na = 1.15 : 23 =0.311 

 H,0 = 9.10 : IS =0.54 

 Taking Xa = 0.311 as unit, the atomic ratio becomes 



F Al Ca Xa H,0 



8.46 1.656 1.109 1.000 1.140 



and reducing to whole atoms, the nearest approach is 



11 : 3 : 2 : 2 : 3 

 or AI3 ■\ 



Ca, [-Fi.+ BAq. 

 Na,, ) 

 This formula appears improbable from its complexity, and from 

 the fact that the affinities of fluorine are not satisfied by the metals. 

 Dr. Hagemann states the crj'stals to have been covered with a 

 white earthy material (SiO.^?), and accounts for SiO^^ 2.00 in the 

 analysis. 



Whenever a mineral substance is so obviousl}" heterogenous as 

 this one, its analysis should not be considered reliable enough to 

 deduce a formula, or fonn an opinion of molecular composition. 

 Dr. Hagemann 's formula 



2(§Ca+^Xa)F + Al,F3+2H,0 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



is not consistent with tlie analj'sis ; it is a mere conjecture, as 

 may be seen by comparing with the above atomic ratio. 



Having lately obtained a number of specimens from the Green- 

 laud cryolite localit}', through the Reverend Dr. Beadle, of this 

 citj', to whom I herewith express my thanks, I thought it worth 

 the trouble to corroborate the few anal^'ses of these xevy interest- 

 ing minerals. 



A specimen, agreeing completely in its phj'sical properties with 

 the description of Knop's variety A of pachnolite, was first in- 

 vestigated. The structure of the specimen is very like that of 

 crusts of salt, as they are often obtained by slow evaporation — 

 tabular aggregations of cubes, arranged parallel to each other, 

 and at right angles, leaving interstices between themselves into 

 which the cubic crystals project. The tabular masses have ap- 

 parently one common cleavage face for all individuals, which is 

 of a decided pearly lustre, as described for Thomsenolite. The 

 faces projecting into the interstices are striated and tapering. The 

 crystals are perfectly colorless for the most part. The basal plane 

 O is well developed in all individuals, but the pyramidal faces 1, 1, 

 ai'e usually suppressed. Some of the projecting prisms carry very 

 small octahedrons, either Chiolite or Ralstouite. In selecting 

 the material for analysis, the greatest care was taken to select 

 only perfectl)'' clear cleavage crystals, on which any admixture 

 might be most easily discovered. 



An attempt to measure the angles of cleavage direction proved 

 unsatisfactory ; the measurements differed several degrees, but 

 (in most cases) were found to be near 90°. 



Spec. grav.=: 2.937 (made with 5.6921 grammes); 0.5000 grm. 

 save — 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Taking Ca = 0.42 as unit, the ratio is — 



Al. 

 Ca [ 

 Na) 



Fe + Aq 



as deducted from Knop's analysis of Pachnolite. 



I selected now another specimen, which contains very brilliant 

 crystals in a druse. I broke the crj'stals off with a forceps, so as 

 to leave a stump on the matrix to be sure of a thoroughly homo- 

 geneous material. 



These crystals were very slender, of quadratic section, and gently 

 tapering to a point. The basal plane O seemed entirely suppressed 

 in nearly all the crN^stals, and the pj-ramidal faces in many, but the 

 very brilliant faces of the prism were distinctly striated horizon- 

 tall}-. Basal cleavage very perfect, with pearly lustre. A series 

 of measurements with specimens about i inch long and 3^5 inch 

 wide gave for the prismatic angles the following figures : — 



12 3 4 



90° 30' 90° 10' 90° 15' 90° 5' 



89° 36' 89° 52' 89° 25' 90° 15' 



90° 14' 90° 13' 90° 15' 89° 25' 



89° 40' 89° 45' 90° 5' 90° 15' 



The angles are not very constant, but the deviation from a right 

 angle is very small. The angle of the basal plane with the prism 

 could not be determined to my satisfaction. Considering the 

 tapering forms, it seems impossible to say w^hether the form is 

 rhombic or monoclinic, or quadratic. The points of all the crj's- 

 tals were colored 3'ellow or brown by ferric hydrate, and some 

 cr3'stals had a light straw-color all through. 



Specific gravity =3.008 (determined with 0.7153 grm. in a 

 pyknoraeter holding about 2 cub. cent, of water). 



0.5000 grm. gave — 



AlOg =0.1170 



CaO = 0.1270 



Na,SO, = 0.1575 (Na = 0.051 1) 



H,0 = 0.0252 (from 0.3075 grm.) 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Yielding percentage — 



Al = 12.50 : 27.5 = 0.454 



Ca = 18.14 : 40 = 0.453 '' 



Na = 10.23 : 23 = 0.444 



H.p = 8.19 : 18 = 0.455 



F = 51.54 : 19 = 2.702 



100.60 

 Taking Na = 0.444 as unit, the ratio obtains — 



F Al Ca Na H.O 



6.080 1.042 1.020 1.000 1.030 



or — 



Al^ 



Ca \ F, + Aq. 

 Na) 



(The fluorine is calculated for the percentages of the metals.) 



About the correctness of this formula, and the true molecular 

 composition of the mineral, there can be no longer any doubt in 

 view of the above analytic results. 



A mineral occurring in small stalactitic and warty masses which 

 project from parallel walls or partitions made up of a compact 

 mineral. It is coloi'ed strongly brown, and shows a velvet}' 

 lustre. On closer observation the stalactites and warts appear 

 to be aggregations of very minute prismatic needles of strong 

 vitreous lustre. No selection was attempted. 



0.5000 grm. gave — 



Al.Og = 0.1235 



Cab =0.1195 



Na,SO, = 0.1135 (Na = 0.0367) 



H,0 = 0.047 



F,Ca = 1.0577 (F =0.5194) from 1.000 grm. 



Yielding percentage — 



98.92 




48 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Taking Ca = .429 as unit, the ratio obtains — 



F Al Ca Na H^ 



6.3 1.11 LOO 0.146 1.22 



The sodium is too low in this ratio to admit of anything more 

 than an approximation to the general formula, and I consider this 

 substance as a mixture like the one analyzed by Dr. Hagemann 

 (I.e.). 



The blowpipe and other general chemical properties I found to 

 be as stated by Knop. In analyzing these substances it is neces- 

 sary to evaporate the solution in the sulphuric hydrate to dryness, 

 toredissolve by boiling with about 300 cubic centimetres of water 

 slightly acidulated, when all the calcium sulphate will pass into 

 solution. 



In separating calcium and aluminum I encountered no diffi- 

 culty, although the aluminum hydrate is very gelatinous. Filter- 

 ing under pressure, without washing the precipitate, I found, after 

 redissolving it in HCl and reprecipitating by NH^HO, but a trace 

 of Ca in the filtrate. 



It is necessary, however, to ignite the aluminum oxide on a blast 

 in order to obtain a correct weight. In decomposing the mineral 

 in HCl it dissolves, as in H^SO^, to a viscous mass, but a complete 

 elimination of fluorine was not effected even after evaporating with 

 strong acid (to dryness 6 times). The aluminum precipitate 

 contained about one-half of the calcium as fluorid. 



As is well known, the determination of fluorine presents a num- 

 ber of difficulties, which render an accurate result very uncertain. 

 Fresenius's method, although capable of yielding reliable results, 

 is nevertheless almost impracticable, from the accumulation of 

 errors by changing weights in the numerous parts of desiccating 

 and absorbing apparatus. I endeavored, therefore, to set the 

 fluorine free as fluorid of hydrogen, and collect the latter in an 

 alkaline solution. This method has been proposed (Rose — Ana- 

 lytical Chem.), but I am not aware whether it was ever practised 

 with natural fluorids. Having a platinum still at my disposal, I 

 thought of testing the applicability to the anal3^sis of the above 

 minerals. 



In a first experiment sulphuric hydrate was used to decompose 

 the mineral at a temperature rising gradually to the boiling point 

 of the acid. After 45 minutes, on opening the still and dropping in 




18t6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



water, a strong disengagement of HF took place. In a second 

 experiment one part of hydrate was mixed with one part of water. 

 The distillation proceeded very well, and was only interrupted 

 after the alkaline liquid in the receiver (containing 25 p. c. more 

 of NaHO than was approximately required by the fluorine) turned 

 acid. On opening the still and adding water, no HF was disen- 

 gaged, and the entire residue from distillation passed into solution 

 when heated with a large quantit}' of water ; hence a complete 

 decomposition of the minei'al had taken place, and the acid vapors 

 had carried all HF into the receiver. After neutralizing the liquid 

 in the latter, a solution of CaCl, was added, containing slightly 

 more than the fluorine would prospectiA'ely require, and the liquid 

 heated to boiling. The calcium fluorid coagulated perfectlj^ and 

 filtered very easily. It was twice returned into the capsule and 

 boiled with water to extract all calcium sulphate. The precipitate 

 weighed after ignition 1.0577 grammes. 



To the filtrate a solution of sodium carbonate was added in 

 excess and boiled, the precipitate ignited, and extracted with 

 precaution by acetic acid. It weighed 0.0085 after being again 

 ignited. The alkaline filtrate was acidulated and precipitated by 

 BaClj. Precipitate weighed 0.1580. In order to ascertain the exact 

 quantit}' of sodium hjxirate which had been combined with the 

 acids, an equal volume (30.2 c.c.) was evaporated with HCl. The 

 sodium chlorid weighed 1.7205 grms. =: 0.91 17 Xa,0. But 0.2 c. c. 

 had been used to restore the blue color, and has to be subtracted, 

 giving 0.9117 — 0.0060 = 0.9057 Na,0 combined with fluorine and 

 sulphuric anhydrate. 



We found — 



BaSO, 0.1580 = SO3 — 0.0542, requiring 



0.0420 Na,0, hence 



0.9057—0.0420=0.8637 Xa,0 was combined with fluorine, but 

 31 Na,0 : 19 F = 0.8637 : 0.5230. 



By precipitation was obtained 0.5194 F, a diflference of 0.0036. 



This result was quite promising. It was obtained with the 

 stalactitic aggregations of pachnolite. But on applj'ing the 

 method to the analj^sis of the parallelopipedic crystals of pachno- 

 lite, I encountered difficulties quite unaccountable. I did not suc- 

 ceed in decomposing the mineral completely, either with one part 

 of sulphuric hydrate and one part of water, or with more dilute 

 acid, or by fusing with KHSO^ in repeated trials and proportions. 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



I am, however, still confident that the method can be so modified 

 as to be applicable to these fluorids. 



Regarding silicium dioxde, which Hagemann found in his 

 analysis, I endeavored to find it, but failed. It was certainly- 

 owing to superficial impurity. 



Potassium I could separate in traces onl}'. 



The determination of water I found to be most satisfactory 

 when I used calcium oxide mixed with the minerals instead of lead 

 oxide. The latter when heated to expel moisture is very apt to 

 be partially converted into sesquioxide, which will at a red heat 

 lose oxygen, and the quantity of water will be found too high. 



Conclusions. 1. The mineral analyzed by me is identical in 

 composition with Knop's pachnolite. 



2. It is identical in form and physical properties with thom- 

 senolite. 



3. The measurements are so uncertain that the true form of the 

 parallelopipedic crj^stals cannot be deduced, and the form may 

 be explained as Knop did. 



4. The mineral measured by Knop and Descloizeau has perhaps 

 not been analyzed, since Knop does not describe his material 

 taken for the analysis. 



5. From the foregoing it does not seem justified to separate the 

 parallelopipedic forms as a distinct species, and the name pachno- 

 lite being very expressive and older, all the forms should be 

 designated as pachnolite until further investigation. 



I may be permitted to state that I do not intend to discard the 

 crystaliographic results of Knop, Dana, and Descloizeaux (the 

 original of the latter's work I am unacquainted with). I should 

 be very glad to obtain the crj^stals which gave the prismatic angles 

 98° and 81'^, so that we should know whether there are two differ- 

 ent molecules with two different forms, or whether there is only 

 one dimorphic molecule. But from the measurements I was able 

 to make, I should be very doubtful of dimorphism. 



Note. — While this paper is in press, I find a very recent publication by 

 Professor Wohler {Ann. d. Chem. u. Pharm. vol. clxxx. p. 231), in which 

 he gives an analysis and description of the variety A of pachnolite, and 

 arrives at results closely corresponding to my own. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 51 



April 4. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-nine members present. 



On the Brains of Fishes Prof. Burt G, Wilder, of Cornell 



Universit}'-, stated that his investigations on the brains of fishes 

 had three objects : 1. To determine, b}^ careful structural compa- 

 rison, the extent to which such brains maj' be homologized with 

 tliose of the higher vertebrates. 2. To see whether brain charac- 

 ters will enable us to define the limits of the group commonly 

 known as Ganoids. 3. To ascertain how far brain characters, 

 alone or in combination with heart characters, will serve for the 

 characterization of all the more comprehensive subdivisions 

 (classes or sub-classes) of Vertebrates. 



During the last century fishes' brains have had at least five 

 diflferent interpretations. Their unsatisfactory nature may be 

 inferred from the fact that Prof. Huxley, who generally clears up 

 diflScult subjects, makes no attempt in his Mannal of Anatomy of 

 Vertebrates to reconcile the figures and descriptions of fishes' 

 brains either with each other, or with his admirable diagrammatic 

 representation of the brain t^'pe, to which the brains of Batra- 

 chians. Reptiles, Birds, and Mammals are easily referred. He 

 gives a figure of the brain of a t3q3ical Ganoid {LepidosteiLs or 

 " gar-pike"), but makes no allusion to it in tlie text. 



Prof. Wilder believed that brains can be fully understood only 

 by cai'eful comparison of preparations made from fish just taken 

 from the water and hardened in strong alcohol ; that there should 

 be several of each tj-pical form, and embryos or 3'oung as well as 

 adults; and that, instead of trusting to the outward aspect, the 

 mesial surfaces should be examined and sections made at several 

 points. 



Finally, he believed it necessary to keep constantly in mind the 

 typical brain as given by Huxley, and which he then briefly de- 

 scribed. 



By these methods he had been able, as he believed, for the first 

 time, to find the clue to the homology of the two anterior pairs of 

 lobes of the fish brain with parts of the brain of the higher Verte- 

 brates. 



The front pair of lobes have usually, though not alwaj^s, been 

 called olfactory lobes. In M^^zonts or Marsipobranchs (lamprey 

 eels, etc.), in Ganoids and some Teleosts as in the higher Verte- 

 brates tliey are sessile ; but in many Teleosts and most, if not all 

 Selachians (sharks and skates) they are connected by elongated 

 crura with the second lobes. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



These latter are almost universally^ called hemispheres. Yet 

 the essential features of hemispheres, namely, lateral ventricles 

 and foramina of Monro, have never been found in the second pair 

 of lobes of any fish-like form excepting those of the Dipnoans 

 (Lejndosiren, Protopterus^ and Geratodus, the last just described 

 by Huxley), which seem in most respects more like those of 

 Batrachians than of fishes.^ The second pair of lobes are either 

 lateral solid laminje joined below but with the upper borders more 

 or less everted, as in Teleosts and Ganoids, or joined above also 

 so as to inclose a cavity, as in Selachians. In either case the 

 median space must be regarded as a forward continuation of the 

 median or 3d ventricle and the lateral walls as anterior enlarge- 

 ments of the thalami. These enlargements Prof. Wilder proposes 

 to call prothalami; in Selachians and some Ganoids they are con- 

 nected by more or less elongated and depressed crura thalami with 

 the optic lobes behind. 



From the anterior part of the space between the protbalami and, 

 in Ganoids and Teleosts, apparently in the base of the olfactory 

 lobes, Prof. Wilder had found two openings leading into the cavity 

 of the olfactor}' lobes. These openings he regarded as foramina 

 of Monro, leading into distinct, though small, lateral ventricles. 



He has found them in Myxine and Petromyzon (Myzonts) ; 

 Mustelus, C'archar-ias, and other Selachians ; Acipenser, Polyodon, 

 Amia., and Lepidosteus (Ganoids), and Perca, Scomber, and An- 

 guilla among Teleosts. 



The true hemisphere of Ganoids ma}' be represented by a raised 

 lip of the foramen of Monro. 



In an embr^-o Musielus the anterior part of the brain is a single 

 large vesicle with thin walls. From each side is a little bud 

 which elongates to become the olfactory crus and lobe. By 

 gradual thickening of the walls especially above, the single large 

 cavitj' of the prothalamus becomes reduced to the two canals found 

 in the adult brain near the ventral surface, which diverge forward 

 from a median point to become continuous with the ventricles of 

 the olfactory lobes. Prof. Wilder does not feel sure respecting 

 the true liemispheres and the manner of their formation. 



In the Teleost brains so far examined the foramina of Monro 

 are much smaller than in the Ganoids ; and where long olfactory 

 crura exist they may be wholly obliterated in the adult. But if, 

 as is anticipated, they are present in most Teleosts, then, so far 

 as the brain is concerned, the}' ma}- be distinguished from Ganoids 

 only by the optic chiasma of tlic latter, as first suggested by 

 Miiller. To a careful comparison of the optic nerves in all fishes, 

 therefore, attention should be directed. 



' Since this paper was presented I have seen the paper of Paul Langer- 

 hans (Untersuchuniren i'lher l^etromyzon Phtneri {hranchialis], Freiburg, 

 187H), in which is given a figure showing the existence of ventricles in the 

 hemispheres and olfactory lobes of the small lamprey. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



The points above mentioned were illustrated bj- diagrams and 

 specimens, also b}' tables of a provisional arrangement of verte- 

 brates according to the modifications of the brain and heart.^ 



There is much to be done before fishes' brains can be full}- under- 

 stood. For instance, the brain of Myxine has not yet been satis- 

 factorily homologized with that of Petromyson. 



In conclusion. Prof Wilder exhibited a Chimera^ recently 

 obtained through the kindness of Mr. Alexander Agassiz, Curator 

 of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, the brain of which, so far 

 as he had been able to examine it, presented a remarkable combi- 

 nation of characters, intermediate between those of Selachians, 

 Ganoids, and Dipnoans. A full description with figures of the 

 brain of Chimera^ Prof Wilder hoped to present to the Academy 

 on a future occasion. 



On Spessatiife. — Dr. George Aug. Koenig placed on record 

 the analj'sis of spessartite from Yance}^ County, North Carolina. 

 This interesting subspecies of garnet has heretofore been found 

 at Haddam, Conn., as the only American locality. In the new 

 localit}' it occurs in very large crystals, from six to eight inches 

 long and three to four inches thick. The form is a distorted 

 dodecahedron. 



The crystals have a dark, almost black color at the surface, 

 owing to a superficial decomposition, b}' which black oxide of 

 manganese is formed. But in fragments the color is deep blood- 

 red, turning to reddish-brown in thin plates. The latter are trans- 

 parent and reveal no admixing mineral. Fracture conchoidal. 

 Hardness nearly = 7 ; gravity' =4.14. 



B. B. unaltered in oxidizing flame, aaid fuses to a black vitreous 

 globule in point of blue flame. With borax in oxidizing flame 

 dark blood-red bead, which turns dirty-green in reducing flame. 

 With soda, fuses to a green glass. Hot and concentrated acids 

 attack the powder, which is of a brownish color, but \exy slowlj^, 

 and complete decomjjosition cannot be effected. 



The xavy pure selected fragments 3'ield by analysis — 



Oxygen. Atoms. 



' These with figures and descriptions of the brain of Lepidosfeus are pub- 

 lished in the Proceediusrs Am. Assoc, for Adv. of Science for 1875. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



The oxygen ratio is RO : R.p, : SiO.,— 

 1 : 1.28 : 2.19 



and the atomistic formula is — 



IV 



Si„ 



1 



Al,Fe y ^-0 



ii II ', 

 Mn,,re, J 



It will be noticed that iron is contained in this garnet, both in 

 the ferrous and in the ferric state, while in the analj'ses on record 

 the iron is given as being all in the ferrous state. When those 

 anal3\ses were made, the method of decomposing minerals in strong 

 sealed tubes at a high pressure was not known, and the mineral 

 cannot be decomposed at the ordinary atmospheric pressure, as 

 stated above. In heating the powder for thirty-six hours with 

 acid containing 25 per cent, of sulphuric hydrate at 160° C, I 

 succeeded in decomposing all but 7 per cent. The ferrous oxide 

 obtained from the solution was then calculated pro rata for the 

 undecomposed part, and the above result obtained. 



To suppose that the presence of ferric iron is due to incipient 

 alteration would not be justified, since no water was obtained by 

 ignition, and the pellucidy of the mineral does not appear im- 

 paired. To explain the result of analysis the presence either of 

 ferric oxide or manganic oxide must be admitted, which alternation 

 would neither affect the oxygen ratios, nor the atomic composition. 



I am indebted to Mr. Clarence Bement of this citj' for the 

 material used in this investigation, and I hereby express my 

 thanks for his kindness. 



The thanks of the Academy were retui'ued to Dr. James S. 

 Gilliams for a portrait of the late Jacob Gilliams, one of the 

 founders of the Academ}', painted by Rothermell. 



April 11. 



The Rev. E. R. Beadle in the chair. 



Thix't3'-four members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication: "The 

 Genus Pomoxys, Raf." B3' D. S. Jordan and H. E. Copeland. 

 " Chemical Notes." By Geo. Hay. 



Remarks on ArccUa^ etc. — Prof. Leidy remarked that the Rhizo- 

 pods are so exceedingly polymorphous, that, to sa}' the least of 

 them, their specific and generic limits appear less well defined 

 than in higher animals. In speaking of the Difliugian Rhizopods, 




1816.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



Dr. Wallicli expresses the opinion tliat the whole are referable 

 to a single specific tj'pe, and as regards the Foraminifera, Prof. 

 Carpenter observes " whether it will ever be jiracticable to ar- 

 range the multitudinous forms of this group in natural assem- 

 blages, Avhose boundaries shall be capable of strict limitation, is 

 to us b}^ no means certain." 



It would seem that the existing Rhizopods, in respect to classi- 

 fication, may be viewed as an epitome of all organic forms in all 

 times, for if all these could be known it would be found that there 

 were no absolute limits defining species or an}' other of the usual 

 divisions in classification. The study of the Rhizopods is facili- 

 tated by determining the more general and striking forms, and 

 viewing the others as transitiffual or related forms, and we can 

 better communicate the results of our study if the more charac- 

 tei'istic forms are named as species or varieties. 



In his studies of the fresh-water Rhizopods, of various localities 

 in this countr}', he had recognized most of the well-marked forms 

 which have been described b}' European naturalists as pertaining 

 to other parts of the world. Besides these he had detected a 

 number of new forms, which perhaps in future will be found not 

 to be peculiar to this country. As an example, in the published 

 Proceedings of this Academy for 1874, page 226, will be found 

 the description of a species, Euglypha briuinea, from New Jersey. 

 Since then the same has been described in the Quarterly Journal, 

 of the Microscopical Society of London for 1876, page 107, by 

 Mr. Archer, under the name of Euglypha tvicta. Mr. Archer's 

 description applies so closely to the specimens observed b}' Prof. 

 Leid}' in CA'ery detail, that he thought he was not mistaken. 



Among the usually recognized generic forms, Arcella had occupied 

 his attention. In this genus the animal is provided with a membra- 

 neous test, composed of exceedingly minute hexagonal elements, 

 usually of some shade of brown, but colorless in the young condi- 

 tion. The shape of the test is usually that of a greater or lesser 

 portion of a sphere with a circular plane below more or less inverted 

 towards a central circular mouth. The soft part of the animal 

 rareU' fills the test, but adheres to its inner surface by threads of 

 the ectosarc. Pseudopods digitiform. 



The species or A'arieties observed are as follows : — 



Arcella vulgaris, Ehrenberg. 



Difflugia arcella, Wallich ; Arcella hemispherica, Perty. 



This is perhaps the most common form. Test approximating 

 a hemisphere with the base rounded and often more or less pro- 

 jecting. The dome is even or mammillated, or is impressed at 

 the sides with concave shallow pits or angular facets. The in- 

 ferior surface is more or less funnel-like, and the mouth elevated 

 and circular. Color of the tests, from colorless in the young 

 through all shades of raw sienna to burnt sienna brown. Sarcode 

 colorless. Breadth of test from .06 mm. to .132 mm., heisht .036 

 to .08 ; mouth .02 to .048. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1816. 



? Arcella discoides, Ehr. 



A discoid variety of the former, and nearly as abundant, has 

 the test of the same form but three or four times the breadth of 

 the height, and with the dome almost constantly convex and even. 

 Mouth large. Measurement of a small colorless one: breadth 

 .112 mm., height .028 ; breadth of mouth .04. Measurement of a 

 large burnt sienna brown test: breadth .132, height .028 ; breadth 

 of mouth .048. 



Certain discoid specimens from Florida approach those described 

 b}'' Ehrenberg under the name ot A. 2:>eristicta, from South America. 

 They are sub-circular, oval, or irregularlj^ oval, often bent or curved 

 in the shorter diameter; in section concavo-convex, with rounded 

 ends. Mouth large, circular or oval, moderately elevated. Dome 

 convex and even. Test in the vicinity of the mouth with a circle 

 of minute tubercles or pores? Color of test varj-ing as in other 

 Arcellse. Sarcode colorless. A test measures .14 mm. broad, .128 

 wide, and .068 high ; with the circular mouth .052 diameter. A 

 second is .16 broad, .144 wide, .064 high, and with the mouth 

 .064 broad and .08 wide. A third is .184 broad, .172 wide, and 

 with the mouth .06. 



Arcella mitrata. 



A variety modified in form from the A. vulgaris in the opposite 

 direction of A. discoides. Test mostly higher than the breadth at 

 base, inflated above, balloon form, pyriform, mitriform ; dome 

 convex, even, or polyhedral with impressed angular faces. Mouth 

 elevated as usual, but with its margin usually crenate and everted. 

 Sarcode colorless, attached b}' many diverging threads of ectosarc 

 to the inside of the test. Color of the test, from colorless through 

 all shades of raw and burnt sienna to bistre brown. Abundant, 

 and very polymorphous, at Absecom cedar swamps. New Jersey. 

 = Arcella costata, Ehr. ? 



a. Balloon-shaped sub-variet}', forming about four-fifths of a 

 sphere and with an even dome. Height to .14 mm., breadth at 

 middle equal to the height, at base .088. 



b. Pyriform, polyhedral sub-variety. Height .096, breadth 

 above middle .076, at base .048. 



c. Mitriform, polyhedral sub-variety. Smallest : height .08, 

 breadth above middle .084, at base .068. Largest: height .168, 

 breadth above middle .2, at base equal to the height. 



Arcella de>'tata, Ehr. 



A. stellata, Ehr. ; A. stellaris, A. Okeni, and A. angulosa, Perty. 



Test circular, discoid, usually not so high in relation with the 

 breadth as in A. vulgaris. The border is everted, acute and 

 divided into usually from eight to a dozen points ; the border and 

 points may also curve more or less upward, and the latter may 

 extend as high as the summit of the test. Dome convex and even 

 or flattened at the summit, or with carinate ridges diverging from 

 the latter to the points of the border. 



Breadth from .132 to .184 mm., height .04 to .048. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5T 



Arcella ARTOCREA. 



Test from three to four times the breadth of the height with 

 the margin circular and more or less elevated above the base. 

 Dome convex and usuall}' mammillated. Mouth elevated, central, 

 circular and entire. Color of test, various shades of raw sienna 

 brown; and structure as in other Arcellae. Sarcode attached by 

 many threads of ectosarc to the inside of the test. Entosarc loaded 

 with chlorophyl balls which appear to be an element of structure. 



This singular pie-shaped Arcella with a bright-green sarcode is 

 frequent in a pond at Absecom, New Jerse}'. Breadth of the test 

 at the rim .16 to .176 mm., at the base .124 to .136 ; height .0-4 to 

 .0.^2. 



Centropyxis, Stein. 



Arcella aculeata and Difflugia aculeata, Ehrenberg ; EchinopyxU 

 aculeata, Claparede and Lachman. 



Centrop3-xis is a nearly allied generic form to Arcella, and is so 

 polymorphous that I have been puzzled to define varieties. The 

 test or basis of the test is membranous, and appears not to exhibit 

 the hexagonal structural elements of that of Arcella. The shape 

 is a modification of that of the latter ; the mouth and the summit of 

 the' dome being eccentric in opposite directions. The dome varies 

 in degree of prominence and is always convex. The month varies 

 in proportionate size, and is more frequently sinuous at the border 

 than completely circular. The test presents all the variations of 

 color presented by Arcella vulgaris. It is frequently provided 

 with from two tp five or more hollow, conical spines diverging 

 from the wider border or that most distant from the mouth. 

 Sometimes the test is clean or devoid of all adherent matters and 

 appears homogeneous, mostly, however, it is more or less covered 

 with mineral particles. Sometimes it is as completely covered 

 with quartzose particles as an ordinary Difflugia, and frequently 

 it is loaded with larger stones along the deeper border. In some 

 specimens the test appears to be wholly composed of a single 

 species of diatome shells. 



I have observed a peculiar point of structure in most tests of 

 CentropyxU which appears heretofore to have escaped notice. 

 From the sinuous border of the mouth a number of processes ex- 

 tend upward to the dome. These are expanded at the end, and 

 look as if intended to support the roof of the test, though I have 

 not been able to satisfy myself that the}' actually reach it. Nor 

 have I been able to ascertain whether the number of processes is 

 constant, but they have appeared to me to vary in number from 

 four to seven. They are not visible looking directlj' into the 

 mouth of the test, but a glimpse of one or two may be detected 

 when the mouth is aslant as the test is made to turn towards one 

 side. From the usual discoid form of the test it is not easy to 

 retain it in position on edge to conveniently examine the pro- 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



cesses, and •when the test is observed with adherent sand they 

 cannot be seen at all. 



Large spineless tests of Centrop_yxis, from ditches below the 

 city, measure .26 mm. broad, .22 wide, and .08 high ; with the 

 mouth .1 diameter. Large spinous specimens, from the same 

 localit}^, measure .22 broad by .208 wide, with the spines .48 long 

 and the mouth .084. 



A Difflugian of the sub-generic character 1 have indicated under 

 the name of Nehela ap})ears related with Centropyxis. Briefly 

 described, it may be distinguished as follows : — 



Nebela caudata. 



Test compressed ovoid, laterally pyriform ; mouth terminal, 

 oval, entire ; fundus obtuse and bordered with from four to five 

 hollow, linear obtuse appendages. Structure of test apparently 

 chitinous and indistinctly areolated. Sarcode colorless. Length 

 yV mm., breadth ^'^ mm., thickness ^V nam. Living in sphagnum 

 of a cedar swamp, at Absecom, New Jerse}'. 



On the Nature of Root Fibres. — ]Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked 

 that two excellent papers had recenth' appeared on the eccentric 

 growth of the annual la^'ers of wood in some plants — one in the 

 Proceedings of the Poughkeepsie Natural History Society, and 

 the other in the American Naturalist. Reading these, it occurred 

 to him that some observations of his on the nature of fibrous I'oots 

 of plants were not generall}' known, and might interest the Acad- 

 emy. 



In regard to the eccentricity of the wood, it was long known to 

 observers that the pith of trees was often not in the centre, but 

 varied considerably in its approaches to the circumference. In one 

 case rioted in the paper in the Naturalist, the pith of the poison vine 

 was ver}^ near the outer edge of the wood, and somewhat elevated, 

 forming a little ridge all along the bark. Various theories had 

 been offered to account for this extra thickening on one side, but 

 none of them, Mr. Meehan thought, accorded with all the known 

 facts, and he believed the true explanation still awaited some for- 

 tunate discoverer. The author of the paper in the Poughkeepsie 

 Proceedings had followed the wood chopper, and found that in 

 perfectly erect trees, the pith was exactl}' in the centre, but in 

 trees that leaned a little, as many would from being drawn towards 

 the lightest places in infancy, the extra thickening was always on 

 the under side. But in the i)aper in the Naturalist, the observer 

 showed that in the poison vine, though growing to a perfectly up- 

 right tree, there was still this remarkable eccentricity, and further, 

 that the degree of tliis eccentricit}' varied in the same stem at 

 diflerent places, although all in the same ascending line. The 

 sloping theory', though supported hy a remarkable uniformity of 

 figures, could not be correct. 



But his remarks had relation chiefly to a suggestion in the Nat- 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



ni'alisf that the rootlets of the poison vine, in some cases referred 

 to by the observer, appeared to be several 3'ears old. The fact 

 was that these rootlets were never but one year old, a new set 

 being produced every year. This was the case in the poison vine, 

 the trumpet vine, the English iv3-, the Virginia creeper when it 

 sometimes produced them, and amongst others generality in the 

 cases of epiphytal orchids. In this respect they followed the same 

 law as prevailed with fibrils under the ground, and indeed the 

 same law prevailed for the whole system of the tree. We say of 

 the inflorescence, that all its parts are hut modified leaves, but this 

 is true of all parts. A w'hole tree is but a modification of a pri- 

 mordial leaf; the rootlets and the branchlets. The roots and the 

 branches are more or less subject to the same laws that govern leaf 

 structure. Leaves fall annually, unless very favorably situated 

 as regards nutrition. Sometimes, as in some evergreens, the 

 greater part of the leaf is conjoined with the stem, or even becomes 

 an imperfect branch, and in these cases is more permanent. In 

 arbor vitaes, deciduous cypress, and some others, the branchlets and 

 leaves are so closely identified, that the general annual character 

 of the leaves extends to the branchlets, and large numbers drop at 

 the regular fall season. Those which are the most favorably situ- 

 ated as regards nutrition, get through the winter season, and after 

 this become branches, and may live to an indefinite period. The 

 root system is the analogue of that which ascends into tlie atmo- 

 sphere, and similar laws prevail. The fibrils are the counterparts 

 of leaves, and die annualh' ; but a few, which are more favor- 

 abi3' situated as regards nutrition, manage to live over winter, and 

 then become roots that live to an indefinite period. The rootlets 

 on the stems of the creeping vines are of the same chai'acter. 

 Seeming but cellular expansions from the bark, they generallj' die, 

 but if one get into the decaying portion of a hollow tree, or near 

 rich earth, it is so favorably' disposed as regards nutrition, that it 

 will live on and become a root. Cases are on record where Eng- 

 lish ivy has been cut away at the roots from all connection with 

 the ground, and, having lived, the hast}' conclusion was formed, 

 that it was drawing sustenance from the air; but further exami- 

 nations have shown that in these cases some of the annual rootlets 

 had become true roots, penetrating old mortar, and other con- 

 genial matter, and thus lived on and contributed materiallv to 

 the iv3''s support. 



It had been suggested that the eccentricity of the wood in the 

 poison vine might be owing to the rootlets coming out on the side 

 next the tree, and in this wa^-" favorabl}' aftecting that side : but 

 the rootlets of the poison vine come out indiscriminately all round 

 the poison vine branch, and as often on the upper as on the lower 

 side. Besides this, in a branch of the Ampelopsis which he ex- 

 hibited, covered with these rootlets on ever\' side, and which had 

 been hanging like a rope to a tree for a number of years, the 

 wood was so eccentric that the pith was three-fourths further from 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T6. 



one side than the other. That the protrusion of roots on one side 

 had nothing to do with eccentricity, was also clear from the fact 

 that he had examined Symphoria, Wistaria, and many other things 

 with rooting, creeping branches oh the ground, in all of which the 

 wood was perfecth' concentric. 



Notes on tioo Trajjs; A Case of Alteration of Earthy Se.dimevts. — 

 Prof. Persifor Frazer, Jr., remarked, that, at a previous meeting 

 of the Academy the occurrence of a vein of quartz in a mass of 

 dolerite had been described. The specimen has been since cut in 

 two by a lapidary in such a manner as to illustrate (1) the central 

 band of quartz (part of which appears to be hyaline and part 

 anhydrous) inclosing numerous small fragments of the a<ljoining 

 dolerite. (2) Two bands of darker color than the mass of the 

 latter, which appear to form the boundary wails between the 

 vein and the dyke which it intersects. (3) A broad margin of 

 unaltered dolerite on either side. This specimen is presented for 

 the inspection of the Academ}'. 



The whole subject of the origin and true nature of "traps," and 

 the means of distinguishing those which have been cooled from a 

 molten mass from those which are indurated, baked, or altered 

 to crystalline rocks from earthy sediments by the proximity of 

 sources of heat, is one yet involved in much obscurity. I have 

 here a specimen of what appears to be a baked sandstone belong- 

 ing to the New Red Formation, in which a part of the mass, 

 occupying an irregular space in one of its ends, has become a 

 coarsely cr3-stallized syenite. The specimen was obtained from 

 near Barman's blacksmith shop, in the northern and western part 

 of York County. 



Notes on some Palaeozoic Limestones. — Prof. Persifor Frazer, 

 Jr., remarked that among the many interesting chemical problems 

 connected with geologj^ is that of the relation of a percentage of 

 magnesia to the mode of formation and age of the limestones of 

 the world. Not onl}- have some very interesting speculations been 

 made as to the condition of the earth's crust during the produc- 

 tion of dolomites (see T. S. Hunt's Chemical and Geological 

 Essaj's), but it is easy to see that the subject is capable of very 

 large development. 



One of the lines of investigation chief in importance is the 

 influence which dolomitic limestoae must exercise on the topo- 

 graphy of a country. Prof. Lesley has shown that the grand 

 effects of erosion can be explained by tiie slow solution and de- 

 struction of the limestones of the earth below water level, with the 

 consequent caving in of the strata which rest on them. 



It is easy to see that ditlcrent kinds of effects would be produced 

 by the rapid waste of pure carbonate of lime and the slower de- 

 struction of magnesian or dolomitic rocks. And the result of 




1870.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



the hone3'combing of either of them singl}' would not resemble 

 that of their combination in separate layers or benches in the 

 manner in which they are so frequently found associated in tlie 

 great valleys of Silurian and pre-Silurian rocks on the Atlantic 

 border. 



As these limestones of the Cumberland and York vallej's are 

 more thoroughl}' investigated, the heterogeneous character of the 

 layers which compose them will be much more clearly evident. 



It has been sought to ascertain the horizon of a given stratum 

 in tliese measures by ascertaining its percentage of magnesia, and, 

 indeed, were any such test reliable, it would be of the greatest 

 importance for the stratigraphical geologist. 



AYith the purpose of submitting to this test as many of tlie lime- 

 stones as possilile, a selection was made of represent atiA'cs of the 

 principal beds, whose place in the series has been establislied by 

 the party of York and Adams. Their names are as follows: — 



No. 1 is a sandy limestone from the west branch of Creitz's 

 Creek, in the town of Wrightsville. If the interpretation of the 

 structure given in the Report of Progress of the Party of York 

 and Adams for 1874 is correct, this limestone belongs at or near 

 the base of the " Auroral" series, and immediately upon the 

 chlorite and hydro-mica schists. 



No. 2 is a specimen taken from the upper bench of a quarr}' near 

 Pine Grove Furnace, Cumberland County. It probably represents 

 one of the higher beds of the "Auroral." Upon it was found 

 crystallized calcite containing over 98 per cent, of Ca" C03, with 

 hardl}'^ a trace of magnesia. 



No. 3 is a specimen taken from a lower bench (perhaps 25 feet 

 perpendicular to the measures) of the same quarry. 



No. 4 is an example of tlie white or buff-colored limestones 

 which occur together with the blue limestones often in the same 

 quarry, but, nevertheless, usually exhibiting indications of un- 

 con form ability with them. These limestones are usually poor in 

 magnesia. 



No. 5 is taken from Betweiler's quarr}', north of the Columbia 

 Bridge, in Wrightsville. Its position is in all probability midway 

 between the upper and lower benches of the auroral limestone. 



No. 6 is taken from Detweiler's quarry, south of Wrightsville, 

 and is (as its analysis shows) a calcareous slate underlying one of 

 the many belts of the formation. 



The limestone slates which occur with this one in the foot of 

 the quarry are remarkable for the verj- large amount of pyrite 

 crystals which thej'^ contain. Some pf these crystals are half an 

 inch on one edge. 



The specific gravity was determined with care. 



For this determination the specific gravity bottle was not em- 

 plo^'ed, its mission being considered rather to ol)tain the density 

 of chemically homogeneous compounds. For determinations of 

 the specific gravity of rocks, coals, etc. etc., whose weight becomes 




62 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1876. 



an important item in their transportation for the great industries, 

 it was believed that the weight of a given bulk could be more 

 accurately determined without taking especial care to exclude the 

 air with which they are partl}"^ filled. 



ANALYSIS OF LIMESTONES. 



Determinations of the carbonate of lime and magnesia in these 

 rocks were made independently by Mr, D. McCreath, and are as 

 follows : — 



Calcium carbonate . 

 ^lagnesium carbonate 



Silica 



Some sesquioxide . 



44.50 

 8.56 



6 



The author is indebted to Dr. Cresson for his courtesy in offer- 

 ing him the facilities of his laboratory for this investigation. 

 As a supplement to this table the following, taken from p. 113 



' Determined bv ^Ir. David ]McCrenth. 



2 By loss. 73.6 as determined directly by I^Ir. D. [McCreath. 

 ^ Mean of two determinations. 

 ■» Determined by ISIr. D. McCreatli. 



5 Some suliihide is present, as sulpliydric acid is produced when the rock 

 is treated with hydrochloric acid. 




187G.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



63 



of ii\y Report of Progress in the District of York and Adams for 

 1874> 



Limestones. 



7. ISTew Red S. S. near Dillsburg, foot of MacWilliams slope. 



8. Opposite Allison's Mill, Xenia P. 0., York Co. 



9. From Shaft No. 5, | mile east from Mont Alto Furnace. 



10. Half a mile south of Seitzland, in a cutting of the \. C. 

 R. R. (A calcite very similar to that above described as occurring 

 on the upper bench of the Pine Grove Quarry is found here.) 



April 18. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberqer, in the chair. 

 Forty-four members present. 



On the Geologic Age of the Vertebrate Fauna of the Eocene of 

 New Mexico. — Prof. Cope presented a s^'nopsis of the species de- 

 scribed from the Eocene of New Mexico, arranged in the following 

 manner : — 



Mammalia 



Perissodactyla 

 Amblypoda 



Ftfutodonta 

 Incertfe sedis 

 Quadrumaua 



ProsimicB 

 Rodentia . 

 lusectivora 



Ti.eniodonta 



Bestice 



Greodonta 



AVES 



9 



10 



"4 



2 



13 



10 

 9 



'3 



10 



'3 

 19 



54 



' These analyses were made by Mr. A. S. McCreath, Chemist of the 

 Geological Survey of Pennsylvania. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



Reptilia . . 24 



Crocodilia 7 



Testudinata 15 



Lacertilia 3 



Pisces . . 8 



Ginglj'modi 2 



Plagiostomi 6 



This total number of e]'ght3'-seven species ma}' be considered in 

 two aspects, viz., in regard to tlieir geological position, and their 

 anatomical structure. 



As regards the former, it may be observed, that the record 

 preserved in these beds is doubtless more imperfect than that 

 found in many others, owing to various ph3'sical conditions. One 

 of these is an evident disturbance of temperature and moisture 

 which the}' have sustained, perhaps in connection with the vol- 

 canic phenomena whicli played so important a part in New Mexico 

 during the later tertiary times. The fossils are generally found 

 in a fragmentary' condition, and often distorted by pressure. The 

 fractures of the surface are often of such a kind as to indicate 

 that the bones have been in a plastic state (see the figures of 

 Stypolophus Mans) during which the fissures thus created in 

 them have in many instances been filled with a siliceous limestone. 

 This material now presents a rough external surface of great hard- 

 ness, and sometimes incriists the teeth in such a wa}'' as to i-ender 

 it a difficult matter to expose them. Nodules of the same material 

 abound on the bluffs (see the geological report). Not unfrequently 

 the bones are covered with an incrustation highly charged with 

 the red oxide of iron, and this substance gives its characteristic 

 color to a large percentage of the fossils, the others being gene- 

 rally black or dark brown. The light colors of our miocene beds 

 are almost unknown, and the bones arc always much harder than 

 these, or even than the fossils of the Bridger group of Wyoming. 

 These facts, in connection with the reduced numlier of exposures 

 of the beds, account for the comparatively small number of species 

 obtained, and the feeble representation of certain groups, e.(/., the 

 birds, lizards, rodents, etc. Nevertheless a large number of in- 

 dividuals were obtained, and a considerable extent of country 

 explored, and I believe that the synopsis above given is an approxi- 

 mation to an expression of the characteristics of the most abund- 

 ant types, or, of the relative numerical representation in the fauna 

 of the dift'erent genera, orders, etc. 



Comparison with the established scale of geological horizons of 

 Europe has established the fact that the beds in question belong 

 to the Eocene categorj', as I have already shown' to be true of the 

 longer-known IJridger beds of Wyoming. It I'emains to collate 

 them with the numerous subdivisions of that jieriod. The differ- 

 ences between the Wahsateh and Bridger faume have been in jiart 



' Proceedings American Philosophical Society, 1872, February' and July. 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



pointed out in my Report on the Vertebrate Fossils of New Mexico, 

 1874,^ and may be more fiiU}'^ stated as follows: — 



1. Divisions found in the Wahsatch beds not yet reported from 

 the Bridger beds. Aves, genus Diatryma (allied to Gastornis) ; 

 mammalia, Tseniodonta ; Phenacodus; Goryphodon ;'^ Meniscothe- 

 rium ; most species of Hyracotherium. 



2. Divisions found in the Bridger beds not j^et found in the 

 Wahsatch: fishes, Amiidse; reptiles, Ophidia; Anodira; mam- 

 mals, Mesonychiidse ; TiUodonta; Achsenodon; Dinocerata; Pa- 

 leeosyops; most species of Hyrachyus. 



The Wahsatch horizon of Wj'oming has not yielded so many 

 species of vertebrata as those of New Mexico, but the close re- 

 semblance of the two fauna? ma}^ be observed in the following list 

 of forms which I obtained at several localities : Fishes, Siluroids ; 

 mammals, Hyi^acotherium, two species; Phenacodus; Coryphodon, 

 two to three species. As is well known, the Wahsatch beds under- 

 lie those of the Bridger group, and we therefore look for their 

 European equivalent in the lower part of the series. It has been 

 already pointed out'' that the absence of Hyopotamus and Anoplo- 

 fherium, and allied genera, from the Bridger horizon precludes an 

 identification with the upper Eocene of Europe. The comparison 

 of the Wahsatch fauna with that of the lowest of the three divi- 

 sions into which Professor Gervais has arranged the European 

 Eocene, shows a remarkably close correspondence. This epoch, 

 the Suessonien of D'Orbigny (Orthrocene, Gervais), includes the 

 marls of Rilly and lignites of Soissons, the Thanet sands, London 

 clays, etc. Fossils from these beds appear to have been no l)etter 

 preserved than those of the Wahsatch beds of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains, yet some of the genera are identical, and others closely cor- 

 respondent, as follows : — 



Wahsatch. Suessonien. 



Amhloctonus. Palceonyctis. 



Hyracotherium. Hyracotherium. 



Coryphodon. Coryi^hodon. 



Diatryma. Gastornis. 



Lepidosteus. Lepidosteus. 



Asa point of difference between the beds, may be mentioned 

 the absence of the Tseniodonta from the Suessonien, a suborder 

 not yet known out of North America. 



The Wahsatch formation includes the Geeen River beds of Ha}'- 

 den, a name Avhich I formerly used for the entire series. It, 

 however, applies properly to the fish shales of Green River, con- 



' Annual Report of Chief of Engineers, p. 592. 



2 The species described by me as Bathmodon constitute a section of this 

 genus, characterized by the absence of tubercle or ridge between the inner 

 cusps of the last lower molar. I do not maintain tliis section as a distinct 

 genus. 



3 See Report of the U. S. Geol. Surv. Terrs., 4to., ii. p. 33-39. 

 * Ann. Rept. U.S. Geol. Surv. Terrs., 1873 (1874). 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



taining Asineops, Clupea, Osteoglossiun, etc., which are probably 

 local in their character. 



The Bridger formation will then represent on the American 

 continent more nearly than any other, the middle Eocene or Fa- 

 risien of Cuvier, Brogniart, and Renevier. 



The teeth of sharks described in the reports quoted are of un- 

 certain origin. They are associated with oyster shells, and both 

 have the appearance of having been transported; nevertheless 

 some of the mammalian teeth found associated with them have 

 a similarly' rolled appearance. It therefore remains uncertain 

 whether the ocean had for a limited time access to the Eocene 

 lake, or whether the shark's teeth and Ostrese were derived from 

 the cretaceous beds which formed its shores. Similar, and in one 

 instance the same species of sharks were found in both formations, 

 the division of the cretaceous being No. 3 and -4 of Hayden.^ 



In conclusion, the classification of the North American Eocene 

 may be represented as follows : — 



Formation. Equivalent. Locality. Characteristic Fossils. 



fPalceosyops. 

 Tillodonta. 

 Dinocei'dta. 



Wahsatcli Form. Lower Eocene. 



fN.E.XewMexiJ^l'^^/if^"- 

 1 o ITT Txr lce)hioaont<t. 



I miug. [Diatryma. 



April 25. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fortj^-niue members present. 



The death of Geo. Washington Smith was announced. 



In conformity with Art. III. Chap. Y. of the Bj^-Laws, John 

 L. LeConte, Geo. H. Horn, E. T. Cresson, Chas. A. Blake, Wm. 

 S. Pine, John Meichel, Geo. B. Dixon, Horace F. Jayne, Charles 

 Wilt, James Ridings, James H. Ridings, and J. W. McAllister, 

 were constituted the Entomological Section of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



The meeting having adjourned until jNIay 2, the consideration 

 of certain amendments and additions to the By-Laws was then 



' The same state of things exists in the sidcrolitic deposits of the canton 

 of Vaud, Switzerland. Mingled with the mammalian remains are teeth of 

 sharks, of which M. LaHarpe remarks that their appearance does not war- 

 rant the belief that they have been transported, or are not indigenous to the 

 Eocene fauna. 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 6Y 



concluded. The propositions to amend, with the signatures and 

 reasons for the same, together with the report of the council upon 

 said amendments, were read, and Chapters I.-XL, inclusive, and 

 Cliapter XVI. were then adopted. 



The following were elected members: Oliver Bradin, Geo. A. 

 Piersol, John Wister, Wm, Xelson, Rev. Charles A. Dickej, J. 

 H. C. Simes, M.D., Wm. B. Brewster, M.D., Wm. H. Castle, Robt. 

 Hess, M.D., and Pliu}' E. Chase. 



The committees to which tlie}' had been referred recommended 

 the following papers to be published : — 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



THE GENUS POMOXYS, RAFINESQUE. 

 BY D. S. JORDAN AND H. E. GOPELAND. 



Among the fishes sent by Prof. S. A. Forbes from the State 

 Normal University of Illinois to us for examination, were many 

 specimens of Pomoxys, known in the Western States as " Crap- 

 pie." We have prepared the following review of the species that 

 have been referred to this genus, and append the synon3-m3'^ for 

 future reference. 



The genus was described in 1820 by Rafinesque, page 33 of his 

 Ichthyologia OJiiennis, in these words : " Body elliptic, compressed, 

 scaly. Yent anterior. Head scaleless, jaws plaited extensively, 

 roughened b}'' very minute teeth. Gill-cover smooth, scaleless; 

 propercule forked beneath ; opercule membranaceous and acute 

 posteriorly. Thoracic fins without appendage, but a spiny ray. 

 One doi'sal fin opposite the anal, both with many spinj^ rays." 

 This description has been accepted as sufficiently^ accurate by 

 most authors, and the genus adopted. Rafinesque referred to 

 the genus one species, obtained at the Falls of the Ohio, with the 

 following description, drawn undoubtedly from the same speci- 

 mens that suggested the genus : " Silvery; back olivaceous, with 

 some geminate brown transversal lines; a golden ring at the 

 base of the tail; lateral line straight; dorsal and anal fins with 

 six spiny ra3's ; a marginal black spot behind both fins; tail 

 lobed; lower jaw longer. Length 3 to 6 inches. Diameter equal- 

 ing three-tenths of the length." He called his species annularis. 



In the " Report of the Zoology of Ohio," Dr. Kirtland described 

 the same fish under the name of Ciehla Storer-ia., but dropped this 

 name on information from Dr. Storer that Cuvier and Valen- 

 ciennes had already described it under the name of Gentrarehus 

 hexacanthus. We have not seen Kirtland's original description, 

 but in November, 1840, in a report on the " Fishes of the Ohio and 

 its Tributaries," in the "Boston Journal of Natural History," vol. 

 iii. p. 480, he gave a description of the fish, made evidently partly 

 from the specimen in hand, from which a good drawing was made 

 (pi. xix., fig. 2), and partly from the real hexacanthus of C. and V., 

 a fish that is now commonly placed in the genus Hyperistws of Gill. 

 The localities he mentions show that he supposed Hyperistius 




1876.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



and Pomoxys to be one fisli, if the description was not conclusive. 

 In the "Memoirs of the Am. Acad, of Arts and Sciences," new se- 

 ries, vol. ii., 1846, Dr. Storer, in his "S3'nopsis of the Fishes of 

 N. A.," p. 290, relying on the truth of the information he had 

 given Kirtland, copied the latter's description, with a brief addi- 

 tion, and used the name Cehlrarchus hexacanthus. He gave data 

 of two specimens, one a Hyjyeristius, and the other a Pomoxys. 

 The localities and s^'non^any quoted referred to Hyperistius, 

 Pomoxys^ and what may have been Centrarchus irideus. 



In 185i Professor Agassiz, in "The Fishes of the Tenn. River," 

 p. 4 (of reprint), referred a specimen sent to him from that river, to 

 Pomoxys annularis Rafinesque, saying it "agreed full}^" with his 

 description, except in wanting the ring at the base of the tail. 

 How Professor Agassiz overlooked the stateme^it that the head 

 and gill-covers are " scaleless," is not easily accounted for by us. 

 There can be no doubt, however, about his course in the event of 

 his recognizing this as an error, for he had then taken the ground, 

 since occupied by all our naturalists, that it is better to eliminate 

 error from a recognizable description than to propose a new 

 genus or species. 



In the Zoological report in the Pacific Railroad Reports, 1858, 

 vol. x.p. 5, Girard reviewed the genus in his characteristic way. He 

 arranged his material in the following manner, that we give in full 

 to show the confusion into which the s^-nonymy was falling : — 



1. Pomoxis sparoides, Grd. 



= Labrus spar, Lac. 



= Centrarchus spar. C. and V. 



= " hexacan. Holb. Ich. S. C, pi. 6, fig. 1. 



2. Pomoxis nigromaculatus, Grd. 



=: Cantharus nigromac. Le Sueur, fide C. & V. 

 = Cichla Storeria, Kirt. 



3. Pomoxis annularis, Raf. 



"described, or rather recorded, by Rafinesque." 



4. P. nitidus, Grd. 



PL ii., figs. 5-8 (new species). 



We are not bold enough to tell what this all means, except that 

 Pomoxis nitidus, Grd., surely is Pomoxis annularis, Raf. 



In the " Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc. of Phila.," 1865, p. 64, Professor Gill 

 gave a " Synopsis of the genus Pomoxys, Raf.," " to dissipate 

 the confusion." He cleared awa}', in a satisfactory manner, the 

 mistakes of his predecessors, coming to the undoubtedl}'^ correct 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



conclusiou that but one species of Pomoxys was 3'et known, call- 

 ing that storeriu^^ for reasons following, and added three new 

 nominal species of his own. Of storerius he sajs: "This species 

 has been quite unfortunate in its nomenclature;" and, "This spe- 

 cies was first intelligibl}' noticed bj^ Dr. Kirtland, who, in the 

 ' Report on the Zoolog}'- of Ohio,' introduces it under the name of 

 Cichla Storeria ;'''' and " the name Ciclila Storeria must therefore 

 be accepted as the specific appellation of the species described by 

 Dr. Kirtland if Rafiuesqne's is deemed uuworth^^ of adoption." 

 As between the specijic descriptions of Rafinesque and Kirtland, 

 on comparison of a specimen from the Ohio with each, I have no 

 hesitation in saj'ing that Ratinesque's is the better of the two. 

 Without, therefore, resorting to the unanswerable argument that 

 since there is but one species of Pomoxys in the region reported 

 on by the two men, and that, therefore, Raflnesque's specific 

 name must stand on as good footing as his generic name, we retain 

 annularis on the ground of its accompaniment by a prior and 

 recognizable description. 



In regard to the three new " species," we find by an examina- 

 tion of the specimens from Xormal, labelled as from the streams 

 of Central and Southern Illinois, the following data: — 



The variation ranges in the dorsal spines from v. to viii. ; in 

 the dorsal rays from 14 to 16; in the anal spines from v. to vi. ; 

 in the anal rays from 16 to 19; in the scales in the lateral line from 

 39 to -48. The first dorsal spine goes in the diameter of the eye 

 from 4 to H times; theiength of the caudal peduncle is to its 

 height as 19 to 13, or as 16 to 16. Specific characters, based on 

 the number of dorsal spines, the size of the scales, the ratio be- 

 tween the first dorsal spine and the diameter of the ej-e, or 

 between the height and length of the caudal peduncle, are clearly 

 untenable, falling within the range of individual variation, and 

 therefore Pomoxys hremcauda., Gill, Pomoxys intermedins, Gill, 

 and Pomoxys protacanthus, Gill, fall into the list of s^-non^-ms of 

 Pomoxys annularis, Rafinesque, it being the only species of 

 Pomox3S now known, unless H^'peristius prove to belong here. 



The following is the sj'uonj-my of the species, with the localities 

 and common names : — 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



POMOXTS ANNULARIS, RaFINESQUE. 



Crappie (West), New Light (KJ^) Bachelor (Falls of the Ohio). 

 Pomoxis annularis, Raf. Ich. Oh. 1820, 33. (Falls of the Ohio ; Ky.).— 



Ag. Fish. Tenu. 1854, 4. (Teun. River.)— Grd. Pac. R. R. Rep. X. 



1858, 6. 

 " Cantharus nigromaculatus, Le Sueur, fide C. and V. Hist. Nat. Poiss. III. 



1829, 88" (fide Grd.). (Wabash River, where Hyperistius is uot 



found. ) 

 Oichla Storeria, Kirt. Rep. Zool. Ohio, 191 (fide Kirt.). 

 Oentrarchus Jiexacanihus, Kirt. Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist. III., 1840, 480, 



PL XXIX. (plate ; desc. in part). (Big Miami River.) — Storer, Mem. 



Am. Ac., new ser. II., 1846, 290. (in part), (uot of Cuv. and Val. fide 



Gill). 

 Pomoxis nitidus, Grd. Pac. R. R. Rep. X. 1858, 6 PL II., Fig. 5-8. (Hous- 

 ton River, Ky.) 

 CentrarcJius nitidus, Giiuther, I. 1859, 2aJ. 

 Pomoxys storerius, Gill, Pr. Phil. Acad. 1865, 64. — Cope, Pr. Am. Philos. 



Soc. 1870, 251. (Missouri Riv.)— Jordan, Geol. Surv. Ind. 1874, 



215. (White River.) 

 Pomoxys brevicauda, Gill, Pr. Phila. Ac. 1865, 64. (North Grand Riv., 



Mo.) 

 Pomoxys intermedhis, Gill, Pr. Phila. Ac. 1865, 64. 

 Pomoxys procantJtus, Gill, Pr. Phila. Ac. 1865, 64. (Tarboro, N. C.) 

 Pomoxys annularis, Jordan, Fishes Ich. Oh. : (Bull. Bufl". Soc. Nat. Hist., 



April, 1876, p. 89) ; ^Manual Vertebrates E. U. S. (in press) — Jordan 



and Copeland, Check-List N. Am. Fresh Water Fishes (in press). 

 Habitat. — Basin of the Ohio, Illinois, Missouri ; probably in all the tribu- 

 taries of the Mississippi. Not in the great Lakes ? In North Carolina (fide 

 Gill). 




T2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



CHEMICAL NOTES. 

 BY GEORGE HAY. 



I. On the Decomposition of Stannous Chloride in a Geissler 



Tube. 



While observing-, in compan3' with my friend, Dr. Wm. M. Her- 

 ron, the spectrum of chloride of tin through a powerful spectro- 

 scope of four prisms (Brewing's make) — the Geissler's spectrum- 

 tube used for the purpose being illuminated by the spark from a 

 large Ruhmkorif's coil connected to six cells and a Leyden jar 

 and a tin foil condenser, the spark being capable of passing six 

 inches in air — the following facts were noted : — 



The constricted portion of the tube became hot — the spectrum 

 became graduall}^ feebler and feebler and ultimately ceased — a va- 

 cuum had formed within the tube so perfect that the spark would 

 not pass. 



On examining the tube I found a metallic deposit or mirror of 

 extreme thinness, but having the well-known metallic lustre de- 

 posited upon the glass at the negative end. The wire inside of the 

 tube at the positive end was tarnished, and had lost its metallic 

 lustre, and was covered with a white though thin incrustation. I 

 too hastil}' concluded that this was anhydrous proto-chloride of 

 platinum, and thank Dr. Koenig for his communication correcting 

 me, as shall appear anon. I had no time just then to investigate 

 further — hence the mistake. 



I have used up the tube in making the following observations : — 



Before opening the tube I heated the end containing the mirror 

 and found that it did not sublime. 



Cut off the tube half an inch above the film, and noticed that 

 the wire wdthin the tube at this end was fused to a globule of the 

 size of a pin-head adhering to the glass projecting within the tube, 

 through which the wire passed. 



Introduced one drop of concentrated h3'drochloric acid, and, 

 upon spreading this drop over the film and slightly warming, the 

 film dissolved completely. 



Rinsed out the solution with water into a small evaporating 

 basin, and evaporated to a few drops, to concentrate as much as 

 possible and remove the large excess of acid. 




18Y6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. *IS 



Ti'eated one drop in a watch glass with hj'drosulphuric acid, and 

 got a few brownish-yellow flakes soluble in potash. Treated an- 

 other drop in a watch glass with hydrosulphuric acid, and intro- 

 duced fluid and flakes into a narrow tube closed at one end, and 

 evaporated in an air bath — heated this, but only a little free snlphur 

 sublimed, leaving a few grayish flakes in the bottom of the tube. 

 Chased back the sulphur to the bottom of the tube, and covered it 

 and the minute flakes with powdered dry ferrocyanide of potassium 

 and heated again, but, as might have been expected from former 

 experiment upon original mirror, got no mirror anew. Treated 

 another drop with nitric acid, and got upon evaporation the slight- 

 est observable white film -insoluble in nitric acid. Chloride of 

 mercury yielded a white opalescence. The quantity of metal was 

 so exceedingly small that, had I not experimented upon single 

 drops, I should have got nothing in the way of a reaction. I got 

 no reaction with gold, owing to the extreme minuteness of tiie 

 quantit}' of metal. I do not believe that I could have weighed the 

 quantity of metal composing this delicate mirror, but I did not 

 attempt it. It must be remembered that all the chloride of tin 

 within the tube originall}' was only a vacuum of its vapor ; but it 

 yielded the spectrum of chloride of tin, and it is well known that 

 the spectroscope will jneld certain results where ordinary chemical 

 tests fail altogetlier. 



The tarnished wire at the other end of the tube was not fused. 



Scraped off a little of the tarnish with a penknife blade into a 

 small watch glass and added one drop of water, but the flakes did 

 not dissolve. 



To make sure whether the drop of water mentioned had dis- 

 solved any chloride, added a small drop of nitrate of silver solution, 

 but obtained no opalescence. 



Scraped off" the whole of the white tarnish and digested with a 

 few drops of strong hydrochloric acid, and got thus a clear solu- 

 tion. One drop of this solution treated with h^'drosulphuric acid 

 gave no precipitate. Another drop treated with ammonia yielded 

 a few gelatinous-looking flakes soluble in caustic potassa. 



This white substance, therefore, appeared to be alumina, but, as 

 in the case of the metal, there was extremely little of it — it had 

 probably been chloride of aluminium, and, with the residual air or 

 perhaps some moisture in the tube, had been converted into the 

 oxide at the high temperature produced by the sparky a tempera- 

 6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18*76. 



tnre sufficient!}^ high to fuse the wire at the other end under the 

 protecting influence of the mirror already mentioned. Within 

 the tube at this end I found the wire consisted of aluminium, and 

 outside of the tube at the same end it consisted of platinum, which 

 had, I suppose, been joined to tlie aluminium by fusion. The tin 

 salt was undoubtedly decomposed b^- electrolysis even when exist- 

 ing as an attenuated vapor. 



II. On the Soluhility of Tin, Arsenic, and Antimony in concen- 

 trated Nitric Hydrate at 36° F. 



The following facts have never, so far as I am aware, been pub- 

 lished, either by myself or by anj^ one else. I have already commu- 

 nicated to the Academy that the metal tin is soluble in a mixture 

 of pure concentrated nitric acid and water in equal volumes. 

 What I have now to communicate is, that tin forms with the 

 undiluted acid a soluble salt, viz. the proto-nitrate of tin. 



The circumstances under which the salt was formed were as 

 follows : Into a dry test-tube I poured a small quantity of pure 

 concentrated nitric acid, and then set the tube containing the acid 

 afloat in a vessel of water at a temperature of 36° F. Into the 

 acid I dropped a fragment of pure tin; it became coated with a 

 white substance, and in the course of fifteen minutes was entirely 

 transformed into this white substance. Several fragments of tin 

 were added at the above intervals, and all were transformed into 

 this white subtance. The action of the acid had now become less 

 decided, although the fluid was still strongly acid, and the contents 

 of the tube presented a gelatinous appearance resembling the re- 

 cently precipitated hydrate of alumina. It seemed doubtful 

 whether I had not merely obtained the ordinary hydrate of me- 

 tastannic acid. Upon the addition of about two volumes of water 

 the whole of the white substance dissolved to a clear and colorless 

 fluid, therefore holding the tin in the solution and proving that 

 the white substance was not the hydrate of metastannic acid. 



The solution was tested as follows : — 



1st. A portion was boiled and the whole of the dissolved metal 

 was precipitated as hydrate of metastannic acid. 



2d. After neutralizing a portion of the free acid, hydrosulphuric 

 acid caused the precipitation of proto-sulphidc of tin mixed with 

 sulphur. 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, ^5 



3d. To a portion of the original solution was added solution of 

 chloride of mercur}-, and in the course of a few hours a white pre- 

 cipitate formed consisting of sub-chloride of mercury. 

 4th. Chloride of gold gave no precipitate. 



5th. Potash solution gave a white precipitate soluble in excess 

 of potash. 



6th. A mixture of ferricyanide of potassium and sesquiehloride 

 of iron was made, and to this mixture was added a portion of the 

 original solution — the result was the production in a few hours of 

 Prussian blue. 



Tliese tests were, in mj' opinion, retarded b}^ the presence of a 

 large excess of nitric acid, and the production of purple of Cassius 

 was altogether prevented by tl»e presence of an excess of this acid. 

 All the other tests were perfectly' satisfactory. 



To obviate the difficulty occasioned b}' tlie presence of a lar^e 

 excess of free nitric acid, a fresh solution was prepared b^' adding 

 the metal to the acid until the contents of the tube had become 

 thick and past}'-, and there appeared to be little or no action going 

 on, the tube being kept, as before, surrounded by water at 36° F. 

 Water was now added to the past}- mass, but in this instance a 

 not very considerable portion of white substance was left undis- 

 solved. The solution was filtered, and to the clear filtrate was 

 added — 



1st. Hydrosulphuric acid. This jaelded a brown precipitate 

 soluble in solution of potash, and reprecipitated brown on addition 

 of dilute hydrochloric acid. 



2d. Potash yielded a white precipitate soluble in excess of pot- 

 ash. 



3d. Chloride of gold yielded a beautiful and strong coloration of 

 purple of Cassius after addition of a drop of dilute hj'drochloric acid 

 in five minutes, and when the tin solution was not too dilute the 

 purple of Cassius was precipitated at once. 



4th. Chloride of mercury yielded a white precipitate of sub-chlo- 

 ride of mercury immediately. 



5th. To a mixture of ferric3'anide of potassium and sesquiehlo- 

 ride of ii-on, a portion of the clear filtrate was added, and almost 

 immediately prussian blue was formed. 



6th. Boiling the original filtrate caused the precipitation of the 

 tin as hydrate of metastannic acid. 



The above experiments prove that not onl}- is tin converted into 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



a soluble salt by concentrated nitric acid, but that proto-nitrate 

 of tin is fofmed. 



Pursuing my investigations still furtlier with regard to the 

 action of nitric acid upon the group of metals usuall3- said to be 

 oxidized, but not dissolved or converted into salts by it, I next 

 experimented upon antimon}-. 



Into a dry test-tube I poured about 2 c.c. of concentrated nitric 

 acid, and then dropped into the acid about 20 grains of powdered 

 antimon3^ The tube was immediately set afloat in a vessel of 

 w^ater at 36° F. and allowed to remain for about 12 houi's, being 

 shaken occasionally to diff'use the powder through the acid. At 

 first there appeared to be no change produced, but b^^ and by the 

 fluid became distinctly green, and b}^ the end of 12 hours a strongly 

 green solution was obtained. On decanting this green fluid from 

 the powdered metal and diluting it with water, a bulky and abun- 

 dant white precipitate was produced, showing that a large pro- 

 portion of the antimony had been dissolved in the nitric acid, and 

 in this respect it appeared to behave like nitrate of bismuth when 

 diluted with water. In order to ascertain in what state of com- 

 bination the anlimon}- was held, the following experiments were 

 made. 



Tartaric acid was added to the fluid containing the precipitate, 

 and it at once dissolved to a colorless fluid. 



The fluid was now filtered in order to remove any particles of 

 undissolved metal which miglit have been decanted. 



1st. After neutralizing a portion of the free acid in a portion 

 of the filtrate, a strong solution of h3'drosulphuric acid was added 

 — the result was a bulky, orange-red, unmistakable precipitate of 

 tersulphide of antimony, readily soluble in potash, and reprecipi- 

 tated from its alkaline solution by dilute hydrochloric acid. 



2d. To another portion of the filtrate, potash was added, and a 

 white precipitate of teroxide of antimony was obtained soluble in 

 excess. 



3d. To the alkaline solution last obtained, nitrate of silver was 

 added, and tliere was obtained a jet-black precipitate of suboxide 

 of silver insoluble in excess of ammonia — this being distinctive 

 of Peroxide of antimany. 



4th. Neutralized another portion of original filtrate by ammonia 

 to remove free nitric acid, and then acidulated with hydrochloric 

 acid. Put a drop or two of the solution thus obtained upon a 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



clean surfiice of platinum, and introduced a fragment of zinc — the 

 result was a dark-brown or black stain of metallic antimony not 

 removable by cold Ii3-drochloric acid, but removable hy hot nitric 

 acid. 



These four tests show that the original solution contained ter- 

 oxide of antimony, and, as the solution was obtained by means of 

 nitric acid, the probabilit}^ is that it was a ternitrate of antimonj', 

 for a large quantity of the metal was dissolved. The HS precipi- 

 tate was so bulky as at first almost to fill the test-tube. 



The solution of antimony in nitric acid kept cold will not bear 

 dilution with water except in presence of tartaric or hydrochloric 

 acid. 



Boiling the original green solution gave an abundant white pre- 

 cipitate of antimonic acid accompanied by copious evolution of 

 orange-red fumes. Boiled till the red fumes had disappeared — 

 diluted and filtered — the filtrate did not pass through clear, but 

 on passing twice more through the same filter was obtained a per- 

 fectly clear filtrate. This filtrate gave every one of the four tests 

 above-mentioned with the utmost readiness, i. e., it 3'ielded in 

 succession tersulphide of antimony, teroxide of antimony, sub- 

 oxide of silver, and metallic antimon}', and therefore held in solu- 

 tion even after formation and precipitation of antimonic acid by 

 boiling a large quantify of teroxide of antimony dissolved in nitric 

 acid, or existing as ternitrate of antimon}-. In this case no other 

 acid but the nitric had been used. 



I now experimented upon arsenic in the same manner, i. e., by 

 keeping the pure metal (not pulverized) for 12 hours in contact 

 with pure concentrated nitric acid at 36° F. 



The result was a beautiful transparent green solution of the 

 entire quantity' of metal. This solution 3-ielded every one of the 

 tests for arsenic acid. 



1st. After reduction hy sulphurous acid and partial neutraliza- 

 tion, it yielded upon addition of h^'drosulphuric acid the tersul- 

 phide of arsenic. 



2d. After complete neutralization, and addition of sulphide of 

 ammonium, followed b^- addition of hydrochloric acid, it yielded 

 the pentasulphide of arsenic. 



3d. After addition of nitrate of silver and a small quantity of 

 ammonia, it yielded the reddish-brown precipitate of arsenate of 

 silver. 




Y8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



4th. In similar circumstances, i. e., after neutralization In' am- 

 monia and addition of sulphate of copper, it yielded the greenish- 

 blue precipitate of arsenate of copper. 



5th. Neutralized and then mixed with a large excess of concen- 

 trated hydrochloric acid and boiled with a slip of clean copper, a 

 dark-gray film was deposited on the metal. 



6th. Neutralized and added a clear mixture of sulphate of 

 magnesia, chloride of ammonium and ammonia, it 3-ielded at once 

 a crystalline precipitate of arsenate of ammonia and magnesia. 

 The original green solution was therefore either simple arsenic 

 acid or a pentanitrate of arsenic. 



The curious fact is here observed that these tliree metals, 

 arsenic, antimony, and tin, when treated with cold concentrated 

 nitric acid kept coM^ oxidized in the relation of their several vola- 

 tilities — arsenic yielding either a pe??/anitrate ? or merely arsenic 

 acid, antimony yielding a ^ernitrate, and tin a protonitrate ; Avhile 

 the other curious fact is also to be observed that on boiling the 

 original solutions all the arsenic remains in solution, a consider- 

 able portion of the antimony remains in solution, and none or only 

 tlie merest trace of the tin remains in solution. 



I ought to have mentioned in my last communication that the 

 tin emplo3'ed was not granulated but onh^ cut b}' a sharp knife 

 from a bar in order to prevent too rapid action of the acid upon 

 the metal. I found it necessary on the other hand, to pulverize 

 the antimou}', as without this the action was hardly visible — the 

 arsenic was used in large crystals. 



Note upon Mr. Eaifs Paper. By Geo. A. Koenig, Ph.D. 



The reaction of nitric hydrate upon arsenic at 36° F. results, 

 according to the author, in the exclusive formation of arsenic acid 

 or arsenic pentoxide. This is not substantiated b}' his experi- 

 ments. He certainly proved the presence of the pentoxide, but 

 does not speak of any test for the teroxide, the presence of which 

 does not interfere much with the other reactions. It is a fact well 

 known b^^ chemists, that a continued digestion of the teroxide is 

 needed with concentrated nitric acid to change it into pentoxide, 

 and some authors state distinctly tliat arsenic is changed b}- nitric 

 acid both into the teroxide and pentoxide. 



Since it is known that l)y the action of nitric acid u[)on metals 




1816.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



heat is generated, and also that antiraon}' and tin are precipitated 

 b}' heat from their nitric or other acid solutions, it was not aston- 

 ishing to find those metals go into and remain in solution, by 

 abstracting the heat with a cooling liquid in such measure as 

 heat was generated. 



In the case of tin, dilute nitric acid is known to dissolve it as 

 protoxide, and here the water in the acid prevents the heating ; in 

 using concentrated acid and appl3'ing a cooling liquid at the out- 

 side of the vessel, the conditions remain unchanged, and only the 

 application is different. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



May 9. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



T\vent3'-six members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication: — 

 "Fourth Contribution to the Historj^ of Existing Cetacea," by 



Edw. D. Cope. 



"Zoological and Biological Methods of Research," by Harrison 



Allen, M.D. 



Remarks on Fossils from the Ashley Phosphate Beds. — Prof. 

 Leidy observed that tlie so-called phosphate beds of Ashley 

 River, South Carolina, were remarkable for the singular admix- 

 ture of multitudes of fossils of different ages, from the earlv ter- 

 tiary' period inclusive down to the present epoch. The phosphatic 

 nodules, for which the beds are explored, appear to have had their 

 origin from the eocene rocks beneath. These have also contriljuted 

 numerous remains of marine vertebrates especially of squalodonts, 

 reptiles, and fishes. Mingled in the sand and clay with the phos- 

 phatic nodules and bones of eocene animals, are innumerable 

 remains of cetaceans, sharks, and other marine animals of i)erhaps 

 the middle and later tertiary ages. Added to these are multitudes 

 of remains of both marine and terrestrial animals of the quaternary 

 period. Pell-mell are found together bones of eocene squalo- 

 donts, animals related with the whales and seals ; hosts of teeth 

 of the great shark Carcharodon angustidens ; mj-riads of the teeth 

 of the giant of sharks of the tertiary period, the Carcharodon 

 megalodon ; bones and teeth of whales and porpoises; and abund- 

 ance of remaius of elephant, mastodon, megatherium, horse, etc.; 

 %nd occasionally the rude implements of our more immediate 

 ancestors. 



From among a collection of fossils, from the Ashley phosphate 

 beds, recently submitted to his inspection by Mr. J. M. Gliddon, 

 of the Pacific Guano Company, the specimens were selected which 

 lie upon the table. One of these is a well-preserved tooth of a 

 Megatherium ; another, a characteristic portion of the skull of a 

 Manatee ; a third, a complete tusk of the Walrus ; indicating a still 

 further point south for the extension of this animal than had been 

 previously known ; fourth, a huge tooth of a cetacean allied to the 

 sperm whale, probably the same as those from the crag of Antwerp 

 ascribed to Dinozijihius. Besides these there are the beaks of three 

 cetaceans of the little known family of the Ziphioids. These are 

 porpoise-like animals without teeth in the upi)er jaw, and usually 

 with but a single pair of teeth in the lower jaw. The beaks com- 

 posed of the co-ossified bones of the face are remarkable for their 




18Tfi.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



ivory-like density Avhich probably rendered them available as 

 ■R-eapons of defence. 



A fourth beak from tiie same locality, presented by Mr. C. S. 

 Bemeut, belongs to a different species of the same family. The 

 beaks and some associated fossils will form the subjects of a paper 

 shortly to be presented to the Acaden)}'. 



The beaks have been referred to species with the following names 

 and brief distinctive characters: — 



Choneziphius trachops. — Supra-vomerian canal open. Inter- 

 maxillaries co-ossified and forming a crest along the middle of the 

 beak extending to tlie interval of the jn-enareal fossae. Maxillaries 

 W'ith a rugged tract at the upper part of the base of the beak. 



Choneziphius Liops — Beak proportionately of less length than 

 in the preceding. Supra-voraerian canal and intermaxilhuics the 

 same, except that the crest of the latter in front is acute. Maxil- 

 laries without tiie rugged tract at base. 



Eboroziphius coelops. — A new genus as well as species. Beak 

 above forming a broad gutter as in Hyperoodon, and not divided 

 b}'^ an intermaxillar}^ crest as in the preceding. Maxillaries with 

 prominent lateral crests at base, convex inwardl}'. Right prena- 

 real fossa occupied by a thick osseous disk. Intermaxillaries co- 

 ossified. Supra-vomerian canal open. 



Belemnoziphius prorops. — Beak solid, with all traces of the 

 original separation of the constituent bones and the ossified mes- 

 ethmoid cartilage obliterated. 



Fish Bemains of the Mesozoic Bed Shales. — Prof. Leidy re- 

 marked that the remains of life of any kind were exceedingly rare 

 in the mesozoic red shales which cross our State about fifteen miles 

 north of us. Hence any fossils whatever from these rocks were 

 of interest. The three cycloid fish scales, and a few detached 

 caudal rays, in the fragments of red shale, presented by him this 

 evening, he found on the Perkiomen Railroad, near Yerkes' Station, 

 Montgomery County. One of the scales resembles those described 

 by the late Prof. E. Emmons, under the name of Rabdiolepis 

 elegans, from the mesozoic coal shales of Chatham Co., N. C. 



Botanical Correspondence of Zacchexis Collins. — Mr. Redfield 

 called the attention of the members to the volume of letters of 

 Zaceheus Collins which had been recently arranged and bound. 

 Mr. Collins was well known in his day as an active philanthropist 

 and as a zealous cultivator of natural science. He was earl}' a 

 memljcr of the American Philosophical Society, was elected a 

 member of the Philadelphia Linnwan Societ}', in 1809, before 

 this Academy was founded, became a member of our Academy in 

 March, 181.5, and was one of its Vice-Presidents at the time of 

 his death in 18.31. He devoted himself especially to the sciences 

 of IJotany and Miucralogy, and the letters of the most eminent 

 botanists of that time show how highly they valued his know- 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



ledge, and how eagerly they sought his advice upon all doubtful 

 questions in their science. Mr. Xuttall complimented him — by 

 naming for him the genus Collinsia — containing some plants of 

 exquisite beauty, and now represented by eleven Xorth American 

 species, mostly Californian, but of which the earliest known was 

 discovered in the valley of the Oliio. 



The volume now before us contains an unbroken series of sixty 

 letters from Rev. Henr\' Muhlenberg, of Lancaster, to whom 

 American botan}' has been so much indebted, also a correspondence 

 with his son Fred. Aug. Muhlenl)ei'g, in which we find the Iiistory 

 of the transfer of the Muhlenberg Herbarium to the American 

 Philosophical Societ}-, There are also numerous letters from 

 Stephen Elliott, author of a sketch of the Botany of South Caro- 

 lina; from Dr. Jacob Bigelow, author of Florula Bostoniensis, and 

 still surviving; from Dr. Wm. P. C. Barton, author of the Compen- 

 dium Florae Philadelphicoe ; from Dr. Wm. Baldwin, the talented 

 and lamented young botanist, who died upon Long's Ex].)loring 

 Expedition; from Xuttall, Torrey, Leconte, Sr., and many others 

 well known to the scientific world. 



It cannot be expected that these letters of sixty years ago can 

 add any new botanical facts to our stock ; but they have great 

 interest as illustrating the early history of botanical science in our 

 land, and as revealing to us the obstacles which the students of 

 that day encountered in the scarcit}^ of books, and in the difficult}'" 

 of communication. 



Miner alogicol Notes ; HydrotitanUe^ a Ne.iv Mineral. — Dr. 

 GrEORGE. A. KcENiG commuuicatcd the results of an investigation 

 on a changed garnet and a changed peyrnvskite, from Magnet 

 Cove, Arkansas. A short time ago he had called the attention 

 of the Academy to the occurrence of opaque nuclei observable 

 in microscopic slides of garnets, in which hy anal3'sis 6 per cent, 

 of titanic acid was found. He had obtained recent!}', through the 

 kindness of Dr. Foote, a fragment of a garnet crystal weighing 

 about three ounces, on which the faces of the dodecahedron are 

 visible, and concentrically a nucleus, contrasting by its bright 

 pitchy lustre with the dirty circumferential part of the crystal. 

 The line of contact is apparently very well defined, but on pro- 

 ducing on it a fresh fracture, no difference in color and lustre 

 and no line of division can be seen. The streak of the centre is 

 reddish-gray, that of the circumference light greenish-gra}'. Start- 

 ing with the h3'pothesis of a gradual change from inside towards 

 the outside, or, vice versa^ a cut was made through the cr3'stal, 

 al)oat parallel with one of the principal planes of symmetry, and 

 thus a slice was obtained half an inch thick; this was divided 

 radiall}' into three sections, and one of these was cut into five 

 parts at equal distances from the centi'e. On reducing the pieces 

 to i)owder, each by itself, a very gradual change in color was 

 noticeable from the reddish-gray of the central part to the greenish- 




1870.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



gra3' of the circumference. 0.5 gr. of each sample was fused with 

 5 grs. of sodium h^'dro-siilphate, the solution reduced with h\'- 

 drogen sulphide, after filtration, diluted to 700 c. c. of volume and 

 boiled. Numbering the samples 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 from centre to circum- 

 ference, the author obtained precipitates bj* boiling, of respectively 

 25.00, 16.2, 9.2, 6.0, and 5.0. These precipitates were titanic acid 

 with normal reactions in numbers 3, 4, and 5 ; very abnormal in 

 number 1, and less in number 2. The description of the purely 

 chemical investigation into the nature of those abnormal reactions 

 will be reserved for a future memoir. 



In order to obtain more light upon the cause of this gradual 

 decrease of titanic acid from centre to circumference, one of the 

 sectors was ground to a microscopic section, which showed a 

 banded structure at the circumference with a few opaque crystal- 

 line fragments imbedded, but besides this the material appeared 

 homogeneous, the color only changing from light-brown, very 

 gradually into black opaqueness. Had the banded structure con- 

 tinued to the core, the explanation might be looked for in the 

 growing of the crystal at intervals in solutions of different com- 

 position, but the change being so gradual, the author is inclined 

 to believe in a metamorphic action from the centre. The chemical 

 fact that titanic acid does not replace one or two of the consti- 

 tuents, as revealed liy further investigation, but that silicon, iron, 

 and calcium diminish in the same proportion as titanic acid in- 

 creases, speaks in favor of the metamorphosis by intrusion of 

 titanic acid. 



The crystals of perowskite, pure octahedrons, or octahedrons 

 moditied by the cube, are often found to have yellowish-gray spots 

 much softer than the rest of the mineral, and, in some instances, 

 the whole crystal is composed of the same j^ellowish-graj' sub- 

 stance. The specific gravity of one of these crystals was found 

 to be 3.681 ; nearly 0.2 less than the fresh mineral. An analysis 

 of the same made with 0.5 gramme, gave the following: — 



99.60 



By metamorphic action nearly all the calcium and some iron 

 have been removed, and water added. The result is a new mineral 

 for which the name HydrotUairite is herewith proposed if the 

 analysis of more specimens should prove the constancy of the 

 composition. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



On the 3Iicroscopic ObHervafion of 3Iinnte Objects. — Prof. 

 Frazer remarked, that lie desired simply to put on record a 

 thought relating to Helmholtz's now famous establishment of 

 the limit of vision through the microscope. As this limit was 

 determined b}' half the length of a wave of light and since the 

 wave-lengths of the most refrangible ra^ys of the light spectrum 

 (i. e. the violet) are somewhere near the l-57000th part of an 

 inch, the conclusion was reached that nothing more minute than 

 the l-114000th part of an inch could be seen. But actinic waves 

 or others of smaller length (of greater refrangibility too) in pass- 

 ing through a substance on wliich are lines or other markings 

 less than 1-11 4000th inch apart, may be altered to light waves, 

 and become visible, provided, that the substance through which 

 they pass is capable of fluorescing, i. e., increasing their wave 

 length, and provided the distance apart of the marks to be seen 

 is not less than one-half the wave length of such actinic waves. 



The meeting having adjourned until May 16; the following were 

 then elected meml)ers of the Council: — 



For three 3'ears — Edw. S. Whelen, R. S. Kenderdine, M.D., J. 

 H. Redfield, J. G. Hunt, M.D. 



For two 3'ears — Geo. H. Horn, M.D., Jos. Wharton, Jos. Jeanes, 

 Geo. A. Koenig. 



For one year — Geo. A^aux, J. S, Haines, W. H. Doughert3', 

 Harrison Allen, M.D. 



May 16. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-four members present. 



The '■'■Sleep of Plants^^ as an Agent in Set f- Fertilization. — Mr. 

 Thomas Meehan said that what is popularly known as the " sleep 

 of plants," the closing of some kinds of flowers at nightfall, though 

 a matter within common observation, had not, so far as he was 

 aware, been made a subject of physiological investigation, with 

 the view of ascertaining the value, if an>', of this kind of motion 

 in the economy of plant life. He had recently discovered that hy 

 means of this peculiar motion the common Claytonia Yirginica 

 and some bntter-cu})S were fertilized by their own pollen. The 

 fertilization of these plants had been somewhat of a myster3' to 

 him, as, in view of some prevailing theories of cross-fertilization 

 by insect agency, these plants ought not to be self-fertilizers; but 

 from repeated observation he was satisfied that no insects had 

 visited plants that had ^-et seeded al)undantly. Watching the 

 process of fertilization in Claytonia, he found the stamens on 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



expanding fell back on the petals expanded during daylight. At 

 night, when the flower closed, the petals drew the anthers up in 

 close contact with the pistils. Cross fertilization could be accom- 

 plished b3' insects if they visited the flower, but the}' did not ; 

 and actual fertilization only occurred in this way. In many cases, 

 especiall}- in the advance of the season, the stamens recurve so 

 much as to be in a measure doubled up b}' the nocturnal motion 

 of the petals. The anthers weie not drawn into contact with the 

 stigmas in these cases, and the flowers were barren as the result. 



]n the Ranunculus bulbosus, our common butter-cup, in the 

 evening following the first day's expansion of the young flower, 

 the immature anthers and the young stigmas would be found 

 covered with pollen grains. The inference would generally be 

 that this had been carried there by insects. But as he had been 

 especially' on the lookout for insects as A^sitors to the butter-cup, 

 and feeling sure that none of anj' consequence had been to them, 

 he examined these flowers carefully, and found that on the first 

 ex])ansion of the flower a single outer series of stamens burst their 

 anther-cells simultaneously with the expansion of the flower, and, 

 by contracting the cell-walls, ejected the pollen to the smooth 

 petals, from which it easily' fell to the immature anthers and 

 stigmas, when the flower closed for the night. 



Knowing that another species of butter-cup, the Eanuncnlus 

 abortivus, had fixed spreading petals which did not close at night, 

 and which, though with comparativclv large nectariferous glands 

 full of a liquid secretion, was wholly neglected by insects, and yet 

 liad ever}' flower seeding profusely, he was anxious to find, in 

 view of his other discoveries, how these were fertilized. Visiting 

 a wood after twilight, to ascertain if any nocturnal insects visited 

 them, he found that though the petals did not close at sundown, 

 the slender pedicles drooped, inverting the flower, and in this 

 wa}' the pollen found its wa}' from the petals to the stigmas with- 

 out any diflflculty Avhatever. 



Plants, of course, had peculiar functions to perform, and there 

 were pre-ordained plans and special arrangements through which 

 these functions are exercised. But the workings of plant life are 

 so comjilicated, that, though we see certain results follow certain 

 movements, we are not always sure that we perceive the great and 

 deeper object aimed at in the order of nature. Hence arose the 

 diflerences of opinion prevailing in regard to the object of cross 

 fertilization. Some plants had ariangements which seemed to 

 preclude the possibility of self-fertilization, and the assumption 

 followed that nature abhorred close breeding in jdants, and spe- 

 cially designed such structures to secure the plant against it. 

 He believed that nature had a deeper purpose, as yet unknown ; 

 and cliiefly because of just such instances as he had given this 

 evening, where nature could not abhor close breeding, when the 

 result of the "sleep of plants" was most perfect in securing self- 

 fertilization. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



May 23. 



Tlie President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the clmir. 



Thirty-seven members present. 



A paper entitled " Further Notes on Inclusion in Gems, etc.," 

 by Isaac Lea, was presented for publication. 



Remarks on Fossils of the Ashley Phosphate Beds. — Prof. 

 I4EIDY observed, in continuation of his remarks of the previous 

 meeting, on the extinct animals of the Ashley phosphate beds of 

 South Carolina, that they are remarkable for the multitude of 

 remains they contain of fishes, especially of sharks and rays. 

 Among the former were the giants of their kind, the Carcharadoa 

 vicgalodon and C. anguslidens. A tooth exhibited of the megalo- 

 don shark is 5^^ inches long and 4^ inches broad at the base. The 

 living white shark, pertaining to the same genus, reaches upwards 

 of 35 feet in length and has teeth 2 inches in length. Supposing 

 tlie megalodon shark to have reached the same proportions in 

 relation with the size of the fossil teeth, it must have exceeded 

 To feet in length, and must have proved the most formidable 

 monster of the ancient ocean. 



Another specimen, presented for the inspection of the members, 

 is a knob of bone, such as is found at the root of the tail of the 

 devil-fish, the largest of the existing rays. In the latter, the bone 

 is the onl}^ one of tlie body, and it supports a minute spine, a mere 

 rudiment of the barbed weapon of the sting-ray. Our devil-fish, of 

 which a specimen was once exhibited in Peale's Museum of this 

 city, reaches a breadth of 18 feet with the length about 15 feet. 

 The fossil-bone, though the only thing left to tell the tale of its 

 former possessor, is quite a characteristic specimen. It is of more 

 robust proportions than that of its living representative, and pro- 

 bably indicates an extinct species for which the name of Cerato- 

 ptera unios was proposed. 



Specimens exliibited of the dental armature of the roof and 

 floor of the mouth of eagle-rays were referred to extinct species 

 under the names of Myliohates magister and 31. mordnx, the 

 former having been one of the largest of its kind. Similar speci- 

 mens from the eocene marl beds of Monmouth and Burlington 

 Counties, New Jersey, were refered to species with the names of 

 3hjli<)hates fasligiatus and M jiigosus. 



Prof. Leidy further directed attention to a specimen of the snout 

 of an extinct cetacean, which he had recently ol)served among 

 some fossils from the Ashley beds in the Smitiisonian collection of 

 the Government Department of the Centennial Exposition, and 

 whicii had been obligingly loaned to him for description b}'^ Mr. 




18TG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



W. P. Blake. The speci-men, 2h feet in lengtli, had the densit_v of 

 ivory, and indicated one of the largest of the little known famih' 

 of the ziphioid whales. It was referred to a new^ genns and species 

 with the name of Proroziphiua man'ops. 



The other fossils are of the giant sloth, the Megatherium, pre- 

 sented bj' Mr. George T. Lewis, of this city. These were also 

 found in the Ashley deposits, and are probably' the remains of 

 animals which became mired in marshes after the elevation of the 

 Ashley deposits above the ocean level. 



Tioo Neio Minerals. — Prof J. Lawrence Smith exhibited speci- 

 mens of two new minerals. The first is a raammillary coating on 

 the columbic acid minerals from North Carolina. It is wliite and 

 soft, being a hydrate columbate of yttria with about 15 per cent, 

 of "water. Sufficient of the mineral lias not been obtained, in a state 

 of purity for a thorough analysis, but there is every prospect that 

 there will be. It is readilj' found on many of the specimens of 

 Samarskite and Euxenite (which last mineral Prof. Smith has dis- 

 covered to be a constant associate of Samarskite). No name has 

 3'et been given to the mineral, as Prof. Smith prefers to complete 

 the analysis before giving it a name. 



He also gave some little historical account of the columlMc acid 

 minerals. 



Another species for which the name Dauhrelite is proposed is 

 an interesting mineral recently discovered by Prof. Smith on the 

 nodule of Troilite existing on the Cohahuida meteoric irons tliat 

 he has been examining. It is a sulphuret of chromium, is a black 

 shining mineral, with a perfect cleavage in one direction, giving a 

 black powder soluble in nitric acid which solution is of an intense 

 chrome green — and is found to contain sulphuric acid, oxide of 

 chromium, and a little oxide of iron, which last Prof. Smith sup- 

 poses to come from some Troilite not perfectly separated from the 

 Daubrelite — as this mineral is found on almost all the nodules of 

 Troilite in that iron. 



May 30. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Thirty -eight members present. 



Chapters XII., XIII., XIV., and XT. of the Amended By- 

 Laws were adopted. 



Article 1, Chap. VIII., was amended b}' adding after the words 

 "thirteen professors:" "Who shall be appointed and superseded 

 or dismissed only by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the 

 whole Council." 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18T6. 



The meeting having adjourned to June 6th, the following were 

 then elected members : — 



Wm. Wharton, Jr., C. H. Cramp, Chas. H. Rogers, A. R. 

 Justice, Edw. P. Borden, Edw, Taylor, J. T. Audenreid, J. S. 

 Helfenstein, Mrs. Gertrude A. Quimb}^, Henry M. Laing, Maxwell 

 Sommerville, and Chas. A. Slocum, M.D. 



Prof. Wentzel Gruber, of St. Petersburg, was elected a corre- 

 spondent. 



On some supposed Lemurine forms of the Eocene Period. — 

 Prof. Cope communicated verbally the following observations: — 



I have seen no reason to modify the view originally expressed 

 as to the Quadrumanous affinities of Anapfomorphus.,hut new light 

 has been thrown on the structure of Tomitherium and its allies. 

 The fragments of skeletons of two species of this genus ( T.Jarronii 

 and T. tutum) include numerous hones of the tarsus, and these are 

 identical with corresponding parts in the Creodonta and different 

 from those of the Lemuridse. The astragalus extends anterior to 

 the shortened calcaneum, and the navicular is short and the 

 cuboid not elongate. The astragalus presents two oblique flat sur- 

 faces, one for the internal malleolus, the other for the transverse 

 facet of the tibia. The portions of femur, including tlie third tro- 

 chanter, the proximal part of the ulna, and the distal portion of tiie 

 humerus, are all closely similar to those of the Creodonta. The 

 t^'pe of Tomitherium includes some parts of the skeleton not pre- 

 sent in the New Mexican species. Thus the ilium of T. rostratiim^ 

 while furnished with the pi-ominent anterior inferior spine of the 

 Creodonta, is flattened towards the crest, and is not angulate on 

 the external face. The femur is furnished with a ver}- elevated 

 third trochanter as in Chiromys and Talpa, and not low down as 

 in Creodonta. The liead of the radius is rounder than in Creo- 

 donta. The skeleton of Tomitherium in fact bears strong resem- 

 blance to that of Chiromys., leaving the skull out of view. 



The skeleton of the New Mexican form includes an entocunei- 

 form like that of Stypolophus hiaiis, which indicates a non-oppos- 

 able hallux. 



It is apparent that the supposed lemurine Mammalia, of the type 

 of Tomitherium, which have the formula of the molar teeth 4-8, 

 cannot be separated by ordinal distinction from the Creodonta. 

 They differ from them, it is true, in their wholly tubercular molar 

 teeth, but relate to them in this as the l)ears and Frocyomidse do 

 to other Carnivora. I propose therefore to constitute these a 

 distinct group or suborder, intermediate in position between the 

 Creodonta and the Prosimise, under the name of the Mesodonta. 



I cannot find characters by which to distinguish tliis division 

 from the Insedimra as an order. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



I have applied to this order the name Insecfivo7'a so as to avoid 

 the creation of a new one. I now think that the latter would have 

 been the better course. The name Insecfioora has acquired cur- 

 rency' as applied to the well-known modern group of that name, 

 and its application to types of such apparent diversit}' as those 

 now associated under a single head is not a convenience. I there- 

 fore propose the name Bunofheria for the order, and include under 

 it the suborders, Creodonta, Mesodonta, Inseclivora^ 2'illodouta, 

 and Taeniodonta. Further investigation will be necessary' in order 

 to determine the relations of the Prosimiee to this order. 



The committees to which they had been referred recommended 

 the following i)apers to be published : — 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



ZOOLOGICAL AND BIOLOGICAL METHODS OF RESEARCH. 

 BY HARRISON ALLEN, M.D. 



The influence of methods of zoology upon biological science 

 has, in some instances, led to confusion of terras. The great or 

 primary principles of life are certainl}'^ of deeper significance than 

 the limited and often arbitrary deductions of zoology would lead 

 us to infer. An anatomical process as considered within the 

 range of its own forms, and having no direct reference to the 

 needs of the sj-stematists, often ends without the intervention 

 of an^' of the hj'potheses of evolution ; not that the}^ fail to sup- 

 port such h3'potheses, but that tiie anatomist finds the nomen- 

 clature adopted by the naturalist to be remote from his purpose. 



We propose contrasting a few examples of zoological and 

 biological methods as suggested chiefly- by the study of deform- 

 ations. 



These may be freelj'' epitomized as follows : I. The principles 

 of reversion as contrasted with gemmation. II. Tlie terms gene- 

 ral and special. III. Teleology as contrasted Avith morphology. 

 lY. Methods of growth as distinct from typical forms. 



I. All monsters are now known to be the results of operation 

 of law. Indeed, we have never advanced from the position taken 

 by Montaigne that " from omniscience nothing but tlie good, the 

 usual, and the regular proceeds ; but we do not discern the dis- 

 position and relation." 



The variance from the type to which tlie monster belongs 

 cannot for a moment be compared to the variation from the 

 characters of a known specific or generic formula. Indeed, it is 

 singularly rare to have any portion of a monstrosity recalling 

 the normal relation of parts of any animal congeneric with it. If 

 any one compares, for exara[)le, the liead of a dolphin witli its 

 anterior naros in a position somewliat similar to that of the 

 central cavity- in the face of a Cyclops sheep, he will find th:it the 

 rudimentary nasal bones and the exposed position of the vomer, 

 as well as the extraordinary projection of the maxillary processes 

 in the front of the central opening, all suggest that the Cyclops, 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



SO far as its osseous parts are concerned, is dolphin-like ; it 

 will be seen, nevertheless, that the validity of such a comparison 

 is at once dissipated when the intermaxillte of the dolphin are 

 detected occupying their normal relation to tlie superior dental 

 arch ; while these bones have never descended from the vertex in 

 the Cyclops. 



In the same way, the mammal having cleft palate, in which 

 the vomer is seen occupying a position on the plane of the roof of 

 the mouth, is not to be placed in the same group with the Chelo- 

 nian skull, in which the vomer normally exhibits an exposure in 

 the hard palate, for the reason that this cleft palate is due in the 

 mammal to some error of union between the fronto-nasal process 

 and the related maxillary arches ; this — the real cause of the de- 

 formation — is not in any way affected in the Chelonian. 



It would appear that a lapsus in the course of the development 

 of a highly specialized animal will cause the defect to be fixed at 

 a point so low that no intelligent study can be made between it 

 and the normal "relation and disposition" of parts in another 

 animal equally if not more highly specialized than the one in 

 wiiich the deformation is seen. It is evident that no defect in a 

 ruminant can be said to be a reversion to a cetacean — when the 

 latter is the more specialized of the two animals. 



In the same waj^, great care should be exercised in compar- 

 ing mammals, exhibiting defects in the numbers of toes, with re- 

 lated zoological types. Starting with the tentative point that 

 the most generalized form of the mammalian limb is a five-toed 

 segmented axis, we have the t3q)e to which all other forms can be 

 compared. This comparison is most successfully carried out in 

 the carpus and tarsus. Confining our remarks to the posterior 

 limb, we find the first, second, and third toes uniting through the 

 intervention of the cuneiform bones with the scaphoid, while the 

 fourth and fifth toes unite directly with the cuboid bone. Any 

 descent from this number of five is seen to occur upon the sides, 

 so that the first and fifth toes are lost before the second and 

 fourth ; and if the animal possesses but one functionally active 

 toe, it is invariabl}^ the third. Reversion, by which any special- 

 ized form of foot shows a tendency to return to a more generalized 

 expression, is thought to be exhibited in the horse. A liorse 

 having functionally active splint bones would thus suggest a 




92 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1876. 



Fig. 1. reversion to Hipparion. Mr. Wood-Mason 



(Proc. Asiatic Soc. Bengal, Jan. 1871, p. 18) 

 has figured (Fig. 1) and described a horse's 

 foot in which one of the splint bones was 

 hoof-hearing. 



While accepting the premises by which 

 can be demonstrated the line of descent of 

 the horse from Hipparion, we thinlc that the 

 proof of the argument rests not upon the 

 number of digits, but upon their " disposition 

 and relation." Tlie tarsus is the key to all 

 parts of the foot arranged distally to it. 

 Observers have too often neglected the ne- 

 cessity of tracing supernumerar3' toes back 

 to their corresponding tarsal elements, thus 

 impairing the force of their conclusions, and confounding a zoo- 

 logical inference (i. e., a reversion of a special to an embr^^onic 

 form) with another larger principle (i. e., gemmation). 



In some of its expressions, at least, reversion and gemmation 

 are terms of equal value ; thus, if we look upon the limb as a bud, 

 the toes partake of the same value as the main shaft of the limb, 

 and may be called distal buds — diverging as rays from the tibia 

 and fibula ; the mere substitution of the term bud for toe is here 

 of the first importance, for we can thereby account for any num- 

 l>er of toes as well as any interference in tlie order of the bones of 

 the normal foot. Whereas, if we use the term toe instead of bud, 

 we are limited strictly- to the foot as determined b3' its own tarsus, 

 and anything in excess of that number is at3-pical, and has no 

 zoological equivalent. It is evident that the mere duplication 

 of a "toe" is no proof of its reversion to anything, whether it 

 occur in the horse or in man. Let us suppose, for example, that 

 a child is born witli six toes, it does not follow that the sixth toe 

 is an example of reversion, but is a mere expression of an exces- 

 sive tendencj^ to budding. In like manner, the so-called second 

 hoof of the horse may have no connection with either the fourth 

 or the second toes, but may be a mere bud or graft from the 

 third. (Fig. 2.) 



Prof. Leidy (Proc. Acad, of Nat. Science, 1871, 112) has called 

 attention to the foot of a horse in which the splint bone, becoming 

 functionall}' active, would appear to be an instance of reversion 

 toward Hipparion. A careful examination of this specimen has 




1876.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



93 



convinced the writer that four toes are here present instead of 

 three, and that tlie first and second are united in a common shaft, 

 bearing a lioof, occupying a position of the functionally active 



Fia:. 2. 



Flo:. 3. 



splint bone, as in the case recorded by Mason, This specimen 

 cannot be considered, therefore, as a reversion to a three-toed, 

 nor even to a congeneric four-toed ancestor, since the first toe is 

 present. (Fig. 3.) 



Fig:. 4. Fig. 5. 



Otto (Monstr. Anat. Des.) has figured numbers of examples of 

 six-toed and six-fingered monsters. In some of these the addi- 

 tional disiit is a distinct bud from the shaft of a marginal meta- 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187(>- 



carpal or metatarsal bone (Il)id., Tab. xxv., Fig. 9). (Fig. 4.) In 

 others the new appendage extends upward to the tarsus (Ibid., 

 Tab. XXV., Fig. 11). (Fig. 5.) We would place the first-mentioned 

 of tiiese in the group of rayed processes of Goodsir; and in the 

 second group we would place those alone whose divergent rajs 

 enter directly into the construction of carpus and tarsus respec- 

 tively. In this restricted sense, reversion is of subordinate value 

 as compared to the principle of budding. 



M. S. Arloing (Ann. des Sciences Naturelles, viii., 1867, 55, pi. 

 II.) figures and describes the anterior extremity of a horse, in 

 which the bovine-like hoof is dependent upon an at3'pical budding 

 from the end of the third toe (see Fig. 2). 



In like manner the union of parts usually distinct, as, for 

 example, the produced digits of a hog — forming a solid terminal 

 bone incased in a single hoof — should not even remotely suggest 

 any variation in the type. Such unions are not known to yield 

 corresponding change in the carpus. For figures, see Otto, loc. 

 cit., and Struthers, Edin. Phil. Journal, N. S., 1863, 272. 



II. Pursuant to the method as ^bove suggested, the terms 

 general and special, as applied to the limitation of types, can be 

 made to assume a deeper significance. It is accepted that, in the 

 mammalian limb of a five-toed form having tlie digits of about 

 equal lengths, we have what is accepted to be a generalized " dis- 

 position" of parts; but, at the same time, the muscles in a series 

 of limbs so characterized will have varying degrees of special- 

 ization. Tluis the separation of the deep from the superficial 

 flexor, in the hand of man, creates a high degree of specialization 

 compared with the paw of the opossum, in wliich the division 

 of the common flexor is barel}' manifested. 



So with tlie inferior extremitj' of man we find all the essential 

 elements of the osseous structure of a remarkably low degree of 

 generalization, so far as the parts below the neck of tlie femur are 

 concerned. But the bone at that point and the hip-bones present 

 an extraordinary degree of special development. Here, then, is a 

 limb found in a highly specialized zoological form, which is spe- 

 cialized only towards its proximal end. 



In the arrangement of its muscles, particularly in the posterior 

 femoral group, we get a marked degree of specialization. The 

 muscles which in most animals belong to the extrinsic group, such 

 as the biceps flexor^ semi-memb7-anosus, and semi-tendinosus, are 




1876.] NATURAL SCIE"NCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



removed entirely' from the trunk, and pass between segments of 

 the limb. This arrangement, joined to the excessive development 

 of the glutseus maximus, enables man to assume the erect posi- 

 tion. The consequences of this assumption are so varied and im- 

 portant as to give the clue to some of his best phj'sical character- 

 istics. It is thus seen that the arrangement of these muscles is 

 of great value, although it need not be taken into consideration 

 if we view tlie limb, as is commonly done, from the standpoint of 

 the osseous parts onl}'. 



III. Now this posterior femoral group of muscles yields an 

 upward prolongation of fascia, which is intimately identified with 

 the hicepa flexor. This prolongation extends as far as the sacrum, 

 and has received the name of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. 

 Very rarel}^ the biceps Jiexor continues muscular along this tract, 

 thus aftbrding an illustration of reversion. But singularl}- enough, 

 this reversion is not to the higher quadrumana, where the sacro- 

 sciatic ligament is even less pronounced than in man. Probably 

 we will find the type to which this upward prolongation of the 

 biceps can be located somewhere in the link uniting the lemurs 

 with the rodents. Teleology has been contemptuously regarded. 

 Kitchen Parker has called it " a pretty gilded ball," that lies by 

 the side of the path of severe study, and if it attract attention at 

 all, does it at the expense of true progress. But it will not do to 

 ignore teleology. Here is a group of highly specialized muscles 

 based upon a trifling- diflTerence in the arrangement of muscular 

 fibres, which is nevertheless indirectly the cause of retardation or 

 deviation of parts in themselves of great morphic significance. 



lY. The several tj'pes which have received the names verte- 

 brata, articulata, mollusca, and radiata are no longer considered 

 as expressions of distinct ideas, so much as ditferent expressions 

 of the same idea. The forces of nutrition in all the types are 

 obedient to the same laws. It is evident that it is more interest- 

 iag to study these laws than the resultant forms. There are no 

 dissonant laws existing in the several types, but a few hai'monious 

 lews existing in all. 



The law of bilateralit}', for example, is seen in all the types. 

 The law of the spiral, the law of gemmation, the laws of conju- 

 gation and fissuiation are all actively expressed in the tissues. 



To these accepted data w-e maj' be allowed to add another, viz., 

 the law of radiate nutrition. This is one of the most pronounced 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



phases of growth force. J^umerous examples of radiate skeletons 

 are seen in the Protozoa, where nothing else in the way of formed 

 tissue need be seen. It is, therefore, together with the force of the 

 spiral, among the first expressions of growth force. It gives the 

 entire group of the Radiata its most conspicuous superficial cha- 

 racter. In the lower Annulosa it operates in more restricted fields, 

 but often so powerfully- as to be alone subordinate to the law of bi- 

 laterality. In the Mollusks it appears to occupy a position below 

 both bilaterallty and the force of the spiral, although in the com- 

 pound Ascidians we see examples of it, as w^ell as in the minute 

 anatomy of the tests of man}' bivalves. 



We called attention to the existence of a radiated type of nu- 

 trition in vertebrates in 1812 (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1872, 42), 

 and particularly invited attention to the arrangement of the bones 

 of the pelvic and shoulder girdles. 



Prof. Theodore Gill' has also suggested the identification of 

 homologous parts, from a central or determinate part outwards. 

 Within certain limitations (viz., the acceptance of the limb as a 

 peripheral quantity, potentialized from distal to proximal ends) 

 this view is in harmon}' with our own. 



The law of radiate nutrition which so powerfully impresses the 

 tissues at both the shoulder and pelvis, maintains its authority 

 in the event of deformation. Thus, in a double monster, the right 

 scapula of one individual, the left scapula of the opposite indi- 

 vidual (Fig. 6), and a humerus, 

 Fig. 6. bearing ulna, radius, and carpus, 



will be arranged as raj's from a 

 central point. It is evidently im- 

 possible to identify this humerus 

 and its associated segments with 

 either of the individuals. 



In another example the parts o^ 

 the limb were arranged bilaterally. 

 One division represented the distal 

 portion of the right limb of an in- 

 dividual, the other portion of its 

 opposite — the limb gradually end- 

 ing in the femur as a single struc- 

 ture. Tracing this single femur toward the trunk, Ave found, as 



' Smithsonian Miss. Coll., 247, p. xiv. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



in the preceding instance, it bore the relation of a ra}' to the 

 ossicles representing the pelvic bones. 



In addition to radiate nutrition, as shown in small and subor- 

 dinated areas in an animal in which another type of nutrition is 

 dominant, we may have, as in vertebrates, the principle of bi- 

 lateralit}' announcing itself in small territories of tissue apparently 

 uninfluenced by the larger expression of force operating in the 

 same direction elsewhere. Indeed, we may say that bilaterality 

 is not merely a principle of right and left adaptation ; but may 

 be found operating anywhere, and, perhaps, in more than one 

 place at a time. Thus, the development of the sternum is inde- 

 pendent of the development of the vertebral column. It arises 

 between the ends of opposed costse, and when this occurs in a 

 single symmetrical individual, it would appear to be influenced by 

 some deep-lying typal condition. But in double monsters the 

 sterna, when present, do not belong to either individual, but arise 

 between the right ribs of one individual and the left ribs of its 

 opposite. Such a sternum thus takes its place on either side of 

 the dual organism. It is A'er}'^ evident that tliese sterna cannot be 

 identified with either individual, but are rods, symmetrically' seg- 

 mented, orignating de novo in an intra-costal space, and entirely 

 irrespective of the bodies from which these costai spring. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



FURTHER NOTES ON "INCLUSIONS" IN GEMS, ETC. 

 BY ISAAC LEA, LL.D. 



In a communication on microscopic ciystals contained in gevis, 

 whicli the Academj' did me the favor to publish in its Proceedings' 

 a few years since, I gave some figures of these crj'stals whicli I 

 have frequently since verified. I then observed that, beside these 

 inter-cryHtallbieforms^ there were in most genis^ cavities frequently 

 so numerous tliat they amounted to tens of thousands. 



Since the period of the publication of my paper, I have made 

 A'cry large additions to m^^ cabinet of grems, and particularly those 

 of the Corundum group. Sapphires^ Rubies, and the so-called 

 Oriental Topjaz, Oriental Amethyst, Asteria, etc. In the numerous 

 fine blue Sapphires of my collection, I have rarely explored one 

 without finding numerous cavities, and ordinarily also finding the 

 beautiful microscopic acicular cr3^stals, which, when tlie specimen 

 is cut cabochon, cause the three bauds, and these bj- crossing form 

 the star in Asteria. The cuneate microscopic crystals are also 

 quite common. 



Cavities, with or without the fluids, are so frequent in crystals, 

 from the soft Calcite to the hard Corundum, that little may be 

 said as to their occurrence, as they are so common. 



Cavities in quartz crystals inclosing fluids have been observed 

 by the older mineralogists, but the kind of fluid, and gas or air, 

 was not ascertained by them. Sir Humphry Dav}-, in 1822," 

 investigated the contents of these cavities, and found them gene- 

 rally pure water. The gas bubbles were sometimes found to be 

 " azote.^'' Sir David Brewster, in 1823,^ published a memoir of 

 great research and value. He first had his attention called to 

 the examination of fluid in cavities b}' the explosion of a crystal 

 of Topaz when heating it He found cavities and air bubbles in 

 nearly twenty different substances, and these inclusions were care- 

 fully examined by him. In some of these cavities he observed two 

 fluids* and crystals, and these are figured in his plates. Subse- 



' Feb. and May, 1869. 2 Phil. Trans., 1822. 



» Trans. Roy. Soc. Ed., 1823. 



■• Those two fluids, Prof. Dana without any analysis has called Brewsfer- 

 linite and Cryptolinite. 




i-TOc. A.M. S.Phili!^ 1876. 



PI a 



9 * 4> ^^ -' ^ 



^! V *T.^?5^ ^^'^^Ml f -^'^ 



, 01 \.',^--.^-^ -^ y^ . 





■V 







/ 



^/'/ 



-A/fA 



% 



's2G^ 



, , . Ill i!" I) : , J 



\ I 



^^M^'^^m 



m: 



%6:>:^■ 



M 



1 1 C./'^'^X 



12 a. 



"^ - - -^3? 



MICRO-roPIC CRYSTAL.-^ & CAMTIK^ J\ (;eM: 





1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



quenti}', Mr. Sorby published a long and admirable paper' on Fluid 

 cavities and crystals in minerals, with numerous and interesting 

 figures. He considered that the cubic crystals were probably 

 Chloride of Sodium. In his investigation he proved, by forming 

 artificial crystals, that, in a natural state, the fluid cavities, with 

 their " inclusions," must have been formed by aqueo-igneous forces. 

 He gives a figure of fluid in mica, but I have never seen any in 

 that mineral, although many hundreds have passed under mj' 

 microscope in looking after crystals of Magnetite.^ etc. Mr. Sorby 

 also published a paper on cavities in quartz in the Phil. Mag., vol. 

 XV. p. 153; also with Mr. Butler in Proc. Roy. Soc. London, vol, 

 xvii. p. 299. Kirkel on Microscopic Minerals, Neues Jahrbuch, 

 1870, p. 80, mentions bubbles and cubic crystals in quartz. He 

 found iron glance and fluid in Elseolite = Nephelite. In Emery, 

 from Naxos, he found fluid in cavities. 



In 1872, Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin., p. 126, Mr. Sang published an 

 account of water in cavities of Cnlcite. 



Very recently, Prof. Hartle}'', King's College, London, has pub- 

 lished a very able paper on the subject of the fluid in quartz, etc." 

 He says that Simmler in 1858, oflTering an interpretation of Brew- 

 ster's observations, concluded that the expansible liquid was carbon 

 dioxide. Professor Hartle^'^ states that in many cases the liquid 

 in quartz is water, but that in some cases he found the two fluids, 

 and his ver}' satisfactor}- and careful experiments show conclusivel}' 

 that the most volatile of the two fluids is carbonic dioxide. He 

 found in everj^ experiment, that tlie fluid disappeared when exposed 

 to 31° C, and reappeared on cooling. Prof. Hartley accords with 

 Mr. Sorby in his reasoning that "at the time of its assuming the 

 solid state, the solution endured a high temperature." 



Calcite has been found to contain nearly a quart of this fluid,^ 

 but it is not as common to be found in small cavities as it is in 

 quartz. 



Fluorite. — Cavities in this mineral are rarely found, but they 

 are sometimes seen with fluid and air bubbles. 



Apatite. — I have never observed cavities in this mineral, but I 

 have not given it much attention in microscopic examinations. 



' Journ. Genl. Soc, vol. xiv., 1858, Micro-structure of crystals. 



2 Journ. of the Chem. Soc, London, Feb. 187G. 



' Specimen in the collection of the late Dr. Chilton of New York. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Feldspar Group. — In a former paper,^ I gave the result of the 

 examination of many specimens of various species. Since then I 

 have examined numerous specimens of Lahradorite^ and found no 

 cavities, but the black cr^'stals were very numerous. In the Moon- 

 atone of this country, I have not observed cavities or crystals, 

 but in two specimens, out of about one hundred from Cejdon, I 

 have seen a series of A-er^- regular quadrate cavities or cr3'stals 

 which do not appear to have any fluid. Fig. 10, PL 2. 



Tourmaline. — This interesting mineral is found beautifully 

 crj^stallized and of almost all colors, white, brown, green, red, 

 black, etc. The finest are found at Mount Mica, near Paris, 

 Maine.'^ Some of these specimens have small internal elongate 

 crystals, which are terminated. A red specimen (RubeUite) in 

 my collection has many irregular cavities. One green one from 

 Ceylon has cavities with fluid, and another has very minute black 

 acicular crystals in one direction. In brown crystals from Lower 

 Dianburg, Carinthia, there are rough objects in the interior, evi- 

 dently another mineral inclosed, which do not require the micro- 

 scope to detect them. 



Cyanite. — Of the white and the blue varieties I have not 

 observed any well-defined cavities or crystals, but in the gray- 

 bladed Cyanite., found at Cope's Mills, near West Chester, Penn- 

 sylvania, there are always, I believe, small black masses which 

 do not take a regular form, but are usually elongate. These may 

 easily be detected by splitting a crystal along its eminent cleavage, 

 and examining the cleavage face with a lens of small power, but 

 a higher power is preferable. 



Quartz takes upon itself many colors. In it are found cavities 

 in very great numbers, particularly in the clear tine crystals. 

 Those which exist in such an abundance in Herkimer County, 

 New York, and which are so limpid, and finely and d()ul)ly ter- 

 minated, are sometimes furnished with thousands of cavities, 

 even in small specimens, and these are of many various forms, 

 frequently containing fluid. In some cases the fluid may be 

 seen to move by the unaided eye. In these Herkimer crystals, 

 carbon in the form of Anthracite is of very common occurrence, 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., May 11, 1869. 



2 Dr. Hamlin has published a beautilul little work on the Tourmaline, with 

 illustrations. 




1816.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



and in one of my specimens a small portion moves in the fluid of 

 a cavit}'. These cavities often exist in an entire sheet, almost 

 across the prism of a cr^-stal,* In smoky quartz^' these cavities 

 are much rarer, as also in Amethyst and wine-color and green 

 quartz. The Amethyst is frequently penetrated with crystals of 

 Entile, and these are often very large, sometimes 1 to 4 inches 

 long. The Chester County specimens usually have numerous 

 curved filamentous crystals, easily detected with a common lens. 

 In Way's Feldspar Quarry, near Dixon's, Delaware, there is a 

 very peculiar form of quartz which is nearh' transparent, but 

 somewhat clouded. The fragments of all sizes, from that of a pin's 

 head to that of a small walnut, are inclosed in a mass of Dewey- 

 lite. These fractured pieces are of indefinite forms. They are 

 evidently crj-ptocrystalline, and look as if they ma3' have been 

 heated and suddenl3' cooled, and thus fractured. When these 

 pieces are subjected to a high power, there ma}- be detected in 

 them Yery minute oval cavities in great numbers, and the major 

 axes usually placed in one direction. I have never seen cavities 

 in milky quartz or blue quartz. Sir David Brewster found many 

 cavities in rock crystal from Quebec with "water and mineral oil."^ 



Topaz. — In the various beautiful crystals which this mineral 

 presents, there are frequently found cavities with fluid, and some- 

 times in this fluid may be seen the cuboid crystals described by 

 Sir David Brewster. He found a single fluid in some cavities, and 

 in others two fluids with " air bubbles." He says the fluid does not 

 expand wnth heat. The Saxony transparent white crystals some- 

 times have cavities, as well as those of pale wine-color. The Bra- 

 zilian gold-yellow specimens have these cavities very frequently. 

 The clear pinkish are more free from them. I have never observed 

 any microscopic acicular crj'stals in Topaz. 



Emerald, Aquamarine, and Beryl — constitutionally the same — 

 difler ver}' much in regard to their possession of cavities and their 

 commercial A-alue. So far as I have been able to examine fine 

 specimens of Emerald, it is rare to see one without cavities. One 

 which I have, of verj^ fine color, has man}- cavities of various forms, 



• Sorb}-, Journ. Geol. Soc, 1858, found many cavities, and thinks that the 

 cubic crystals inclosed are probablj- chloride of sodium, as mentioned above. 



2 The smoky quartz of Pike's Peak has hexagonal spangles, which may 

 be mica. 



» Trans. Roy. Soc. Ed., vol. x. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



in whicli are included a fluid enveloping generally two perfect 

 cubic crystals of an unknown mineral. In all cases in this speci- 

 men, the second crystal is much the smaller. Fig. 11, PI. 2. 



In Aquamarine, cavities are not frequent, and in Beryl I have 

 detected them only in a specimen from Unionville, Penn. Fig. 12, 

 12a, PI. 2. In this tliere is a biangular cavit}' with a small cubic 

 crystal at an inner angle. Throughout the mass there are small 

 suboval cavities. 



Garnet. — As a precious stone this is b}- no means rare, but it is 

 lustrous and of a fine color. Cavities and microscopic crystals are 

 very common in this gem.' The cavities are usually irregular and 

 rough, and never to my knowledge have fluid. On a polished 

 surface of a piece of garnet from North Carolina, nearly an inch 

 lono-, the reflection of these crystals covered the whole surface with 

 prismatic colors. 



Cinnamon Stone. — This beautiful variety oi garnet., from Ceylon, 

 as far as I have been able to observe it, and I have some twenty 

 cut specimens, and numerous rolled pieces, has irregular cavities 

 and some crystals, as I have stated in a former paper. 



Zircon. — With its high refractory power, this is used frequently 

 as a gem., and sometimes sold as a diamond when white and per- 

 fectly transparent. One of the numerous specimens wliich I have 

 examined has cavities- and microscopic crystals, and a specimen- 

 from Ceylon has remarkable dark brown, elongate, fusiform spots, 

 with numerous dotted ones intervening. Fig. 9, PI. 2. 



Chryaoherijl. — Tiie few specimens I have of this beautiful gem 

 have neither cavities nor microscopic ci-ystals, but Brewster 

 observed " strata of cavities and both the fluids." 



Ch rysolite = Olivine. — In some of my specimens I have observed 

 small cavities with fluid. Brewster met with them containing 

 "fluid and bubbles of air." 



Spinel. — This gem occurs of several colors. The Spinel-ruby, 

 so called, sometimes is very close in color to the true Btiby, but it 

 has not by any means the depth nor brilliancy of the true Baby. 

 In a pale-green specimen of great beauty which I have received 

 recently from Ceylon, I have not been able to detect cavities or 



' Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci., Feb. and May, 1809. 



2 In a specimeu in Dr. Leidy's fine cabinet, there are anastomosing cavi- 

 ties. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



crystals. In mj^ former papers I have expressed uncertainty iu 

 this matter.^ 



loUte. — This gem is inferior in hardness, color, and specific 

 graA'ity to Saiyphire^ but is valued for its peculiar change of color, 

 being dichroic. One of ray specimens is without any inclusions. 

 The other is filled with blue four-sided prismatic crystals, which 

 are long, and inclosed in a nearly white subtransparent mass. 

 These cr3'stals are sometimes broken and their parts prolonged 

 in the mass, and they are all lying in nearl}- the same direction. 



Turquoise, with its peculiar and agreeable blue, is never trans- 

 parent, and neither cavities nor microscopic crystals are found in it. 



Opal. — This exquisite gem, which displays such brilliant colors, 

 is very highly valued. It is but little harder than glass, and is 

 indeed considered as volcanic glass. Its remarkable flashes of 

 color are attributed to fissures, in accordance with the theor}' of 

 Newton's colored rings. I have never been able to detect either 

 cavities or minute crystals in this beautiful gem — except in two 

 cases. One of m}' specimens has a brown, terminated crystal, a 

 six-sided prism of an unknown substance, about one-fifth of an 

 inch long, and terminated by a single oblique plane ; the other 

 has several smaller ones. 



Lapis-lazuli. — This was used by the ancients as a favorite gem^ 

 but it is not now valued as such. I have not been able to detect 

 cavities or minute crystals in au}^ specimen in my possession. 



Corundum. — This very interesting mineral, when in perfect 

 transparent crystals, is highl}- valued as a gem., under the name 

 of Sapphire, Euby, etc., according to color. When 3'ellow, 

 it is called Oriental Topaz; when purple. Oriental Amethyst. 

 When purely white it is sometimes sold as a Diamond. In this 

 country we have two localities onlj- of Corundum where any large 

 quantlt3' has been found, that of Chester County, Penns^-lvania, 

 and Franklin County, North Carolina. From the mines in Chester 

 County, several hundred tons have been taken, but no transparent 

 crj'-stals. Some opaque ones are bluish and some pinkish. The 

 North Carolina locality has produced some very large crystals, 

 and numerous small ones. Of the latter there have been found 

 manj- quite pure and transparent, and these are sometimes blue 

 and sometimes red. But none of them yet found arc of value as 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Feb. and May, 1869. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



gems. The fine Sapphires and Bubies are chiefly from Ceylon, 

 and they form some of the most beautiful olyects in nature. I 

 have many of these in the form of worn pebbles, and some in fine 

 hexagonal form, as well as hundreds of cut specimens. I have 

 examined carefully more than one thousand specimens, with a 

 view to discover whatever " inclusions" the^' might possess. In 

 a communication to the Academy,^ I described and figured some 

 microscopic crystals in these and other gems. Since then I have 

 added a very large number to m}^ collection, and among these 

 several hundred large and small transparent crystals. In a care- 

 ful microscopic examination of these, I found a large number 

 which contain cavities and minute cr^-stals, the former sometimes 

 scattered irregularly through the mass, and sometimes forming a 

 sheet or film. These cavities are of all forms, but usually sub- 

 elliptical ; sometimes tubular, and these tubes frequently anasto- 

 mose in a very beautiful manner. These cavities are so numerous 

 that they frequently give a cloudiness to the specimen, which is 

 less valuable as a gem, but most interesting in a scientific point 

 of view. In some specimens these cavities exist by tens of thou- 

 sands, and Sir David Brewster stated that in a specimen under 

 his observation there were about 37,000 of these cavities. I am 

 sure that in one of m}^ large cut specimens there must be more 

 than double that number. It is a very common thing to see 

 hundreds at a time of these cavities in the Ceylon specimens, partly 

 filled with the fluids previously' alluded to in these notes. But it 

 is quite rare that they are found in the specimens from North 

 Carolina. Still I have seen them in the transparent small frag- 

 ments of deep blue crystals, and sometimes in the transparent 

 light-colored ones. In one specimen of the latter, I discovered 

 some most interesting cavities, which contained, beside the Jluid, 

 each a single cubic crystal, Figs. 1, 2, and 3, PI. 2. I had never 

 observed an included crystal in any cavity in the numerous Ceylon 

 specimens which I have examined. These cubic crystals have the 

 exact form and appearance of those in the Emerald described 

 herein. 



In regard to the microscopic crystals in Sapphire, having 

 described and figured them in the papers before alluded to, I have 

 little to add now. Further observation has confirmed what I then 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1869. 




s J 



18T6.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Stated regarding the radii of A&leria. Yery recently I have received 

 a number of these Aateria of various colors, blue, purple, white, red, 

 and dove-color ; several three-quarters of an inch in diameter. 

 The red and purple specimens are of peculiar beauty, and when 

 examined in the si^, or any strong light, they both exhibit the 

 microscopic acicular crystals with peculiar beaut}", displa^-ed as 

 they are in hexagonal form, and I'eflecting the spectral colors. The 

 B.uby Asteria is certainly among the most beautiful objects in 

 nature, and the purple are very little less so. 



In some crystals of Gorunchtm, there is a strong bronze reflec- 

 tion, and this is the case with some of the large hexagonal crystals 

 which were imported by Mr. S. S. White from India for commer- 

 cial purposes, and which he distributed with so much liberality to 

 our mineralogists. These bronze crystals have also been found at 

 the Black Horse and Village Green localities in Delaware Count}"^, 

 Pennsylvania. When examined with a good power, these bronze 

 reflections are at once seen to be caused by minute acicular ciys- 

 tals, and these maj^ sometimes be seen in bunches. 



A pale Ruby, " Rubicelle," which I lately received from my 

 friend Hugh Nevill, Esq., Ceylon, about three carats, is a most 

 interesting and beautiful gem. It has the depth and brilliancy 

 almost of the diamond. It is nearlj^ of a rose-color, and is per- 

 fectly transparent. It is cut with a top table and not entirely 

 sj'mmetrical. Its refractive power is unusually great. Yet when 

 this brilliant transpai'ent gem is examined with a high power and 

 strong light, the whole mass may be seen to be filled with long 

 acicular crystals in three directions, parallel to the prismatic planes, 

 and interspersed are numbers of very minute and delicate cuneiform 

 crystals.' It has also a small cloud of exceedingly^ small cavities. 



Another remarkable specimen may be mentioned here, which 

 has small cavities and minute microscopic cr3'stals. It is of a 

 pale yellow or straw-color, and of a depth and brilliancy scarcely 

 exceeded by the diamond. 



During the examination, about two years since, of some hundreds 

 of small crystals of Sapphire, perfectly transparent to dark blue, 

 I discovered one which had very singular plumose impressions on 

 the planes of the prism. This induced me to examine carefully 

 all those which I subsequently procured, and I have now over a 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., May 11, 1869. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



dozen specimens which exhibit this very singular character.' I 

 am entirely at a loss to discover the cause of this form of minute 

 impressions on so hard a substance. It evidently has been formed 

 by some collateral mineral substance, against which the molecules 

 in crystallization have been arranged. 



Diamond. — The hardest of all substances stands first among 

 gevis. It has not, however, much interest to the microscopist, as 

 no cavities with fluid have been, so far as known, observed, nor has 

 it included crystals of foreign substances. The}' are often very 

 imperfect, containing rifts and discolorations. Some of ray speci- 

 mens have beautiful triangular impressions on the surfiice of the 

 l)lanes. My friend. Dr. Hamlin, of Bangor, Maine, is engaged on 

 an extended work on the diamond. Such a work is much needed, 

 and I know no one as capable as he to accomplish it. Tliis gem 

 sometimes occurs of various colors. In my cabinet I have six 

 different colors. 



REFEREiTCES TO PLATE 2. 



Fig. 1, 2, 3, Plate 2. Represent cavities and crystals in a specimen of 

 transparent Corundum from Franklin, North Carolina. In no other speci- 

 men of the numerous ones I have examined have I found cavities with a 

 fluid and included crystals both, while it is very common in the Ceylon 

 Sapphires to have cavities without an included crystal. 



Fig. 4. A Sapphire from Ceylon, given to me by Dr. Ruschenberger, has 

 cavities without fluid ; the cavities being in the form of crystals in the 

 larger ones, but in the numerous small ones subrotund. These cavities are 

 interspersed throughout the mass with numerous acicular crystals running 

 generally in two directions. 



Fig. 5. A specimen of blue Sapphire (Cej'lon), with four nearly perfect 

 subhexagonal crystals, somewhat flattened. These are surrounded by an 

 immense number of minute cavities,, some of which anastomose. The 

 crystals seem to be filled with a black fluid. There are also very minute 

 acicular crystals. 



Fig. 6. In the same specimen with the above, there is a group of very 

 different crystals which are here represented. These can only be seen with 

 a proper angle of light. Then they reflect all the colors of the spectrum. 

 This group consists of very perfect cuneate and acicular crystals, and is 

 somewhat like that figured in my pi. 9, fig. 2, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., May, 

 1869, but the crystals are much more defined, and perfect than in that plate. 



' Figs. 7 and 8, PI. 2. 




1816.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Fig. 7. Represents a small blue Sapphire one-fourth of an incli long. The 

 very remarkable plumose impressions cover all the six prismatic planes. 



Fig. 8. A blue Sapphire similar to Fig. 7, about three-sixteenths of an 

 inch. The prismatic planes here are covered with impressions more in a 

 dotted form. These two (Fig. 7 and 8) were examined with a power of 

 one hundred diameters. 



Fig. 9. A specimen of Zircon from Ceylon has very singular, dark brown, 

 elongated fusiform maculations, in one direction. These are surrounded 

 with numerous dotted ones. 



Fig. 10. Among all the numerous specimens of Moonstone which I have 

 examined I have found two only with "inclusions." These have numerous 

 parallelograms v/hich look like cavities, but may be true crystals of some 

 foreign substance. There is no appearance of fluid in them. 



Fig. 11, a, by c. Emerald. A very fine specimen in my collection is filled 

 with exceedingly interesting cavities with included cubic crystals, enveloped 

 by fluid. The forms of the cavities are exceedingly varied, and the cubic 

 crystals — generally iico, a small and larger one — are remarkably perfect. 

 These characters make this specimen one of very great interest. 



Fig. 12 and 12a, Beri/l from Uuionville, Pennsylvania. Fig. 12 repre- 

 sents a remarkable biangular cavity with a cuboid crystal at one of the 

 interior angles — has no fluid. Fig. 12rt represents in the same specimen 

 two cavities with fluid and air bubble. Both figures represent the numerous 

 irregular cavities and imperfections which exist throughout the mass. 



Note. — I have made these drawings with great regard to correctness, and the 

 artist has well represented them. 




108 proceedings of the academy op [18t6. 



June 6. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fortj'-five members present. 



Fertilization of Floivers by Insect Agency. — Mi*. Thomas Mee- 

 HAN remarked that the subject of cross fertilization and fertilizing 

 b}' insect agenc}', was still one of absorbing interest. 



There was no question about the facts ; differences of opinion 

 arose as to the meaning of the facts, and the extent to which they 

 prevailed. 



Contrary to the belief of many distinguished botanists, he 

 could not see that those plants which were arranged for cross fer- 

 tilization had any advantage in the " struggle for life" which 

 prevailed in races, over tliose which were closely fertilized by 

 their own pollen ; and again, he found that many plants which 

 were adduced b\- his friends to prove arrangements for cross ferti- 

 lization, in fact fertilized themselves. 



He said he would to-night refer onl3'- to three remarkable cases, 

 the Scrophularia, dandelion and ox-eye dais}^, and the red clover, 

 and he selected these, because the distinguished author of " How 

 Plants Behave," Professor Asa Gray, had made much use of the 

 two first named in his book in describing arrangements for cross 

 fertilization; and, as Professor Gray was present this evening, he 

 felt sure that with his usual friendliness and good feeling towards 

 all who were earnestly' seeking the truth, he would do the meet- 

 ing the favor to correct him if he found the speaker's observations 

 not confirmed by his own. Red clover he would refer to, because 

 it was oftener quoted. Red clover was, in fact, the Vade mecum 

 of the insect fertilizationist. 



Mr. Meehan then exhibited specimens of Scrojjhidaria canina, 

 and explained its floral development. The pistil protruded while 

 yet the anthers were rolled back in the throat of the corolla. One 

 by one these stamens were straightened out, the anther coming 

 into close proximit}' with the stigma, when it burst, and by the 

 contraction of the sacs, the pollen was ejected, falling on the 

 stigma. The pollen was of a brilliant orange color, and the stig- 

 ma of a pearly white, so that the smallest particle could be seen 

 even by a good naked eye ; and could be easily noted if carried to 

 the stigma of other flowers by insects. Small sand wasps and 

 other winged insects visited the flowers in extraordinary abun- 

 dance ; but it could be seen by observers that no pollen appeared 

 on any stigma until the bursting of its own pollen sacs. Profes- 

 sor Gray, he said, in "How Plants Behave," had described "Scro- 

 phularia" as acting in a ver^' difierent way to this, making no ex- 

 ceptions to any species, though it was fair to note that the illustra- 




1816.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



tion accompanying tlie text was of Scrophuloi^ia nodosa, a. species 

 not 3'et in flower with hi in. 



Composite plants, he said, had been referred to as illustrating 

 the peculiar arrangements for insect fertilization. The colored 

 ray petals had been characterized b3' his friend as so many flags 

 alluring winged insects to where the sweet secretions were, in 

 order that they raiglit bring foreign pollen at the same time. In 

 his vicinity, surrounded as he was b3' an abundance of sweet 

 flowers, he had never seen a winged insect on dandelion or ox- 

 e^-e dais}- {Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), though^ on the waste 

 grounds near him, the}' were in bloom b3-.the thousand; but ever}' 

 little flower perfected a seed There were millions on millions of 

 seeds, and even admitting that there might be some winged insects 

 at them that he did not see, tlie}' were certainl}- so scarce that it 

 was out of the question to suppose that each of these had been 

 fertilized b^^ winged insects. He had found thrips in some flowers 

 and on one occasion an ant, but these were too few for the immense 

 work to be done. But this presumptive argument was unneces- 

 sary, as a careful observation of how the plants behaved, showed 

 they were self-fertilizers. In the dandelion, he said the united 

 column of stamens perfected, and spread its pollen in advanceof the 

 pistil. As the pistil grew it carried the pollen with it. The apex of 

 the pistil then forked, and as the interior surface of the cleft alone 

 had the stigmatic surface, it had been argued that none of the 

 pollen could be used for itself. But a watcher would see that as 

 the cleft opened the pollen on the line of the cleft fell in. It was 

 but a little, but that was enough. Then the positionof the upper 

 part of the pistil in the dandelion favored this intrusion of the 

 pollen. Just before the expansion of the stigmatic lobes, the 

 pistil curved at the apex, and the slit opened first on the upper 

 side of this then horizontal position. The pollen easiW fell into 

 the chasm. The lobes finall3' separated, until the3' became direct- 

 h' opposite to each other as generally seen in the dandelion. 

 While this is going on, tlie lobes, having pollen atiundantl3' on 

 the under side, as the3' are sweeping the horizon, drop pollen, or 

 even rub their surfaces on the expanded stigmas of the flowers 

 below, and in this way, if tliey had no pollen of their own, the 

 lower flower would be fertilized hx that above. This would be 

 cross-fertilization, but not b3' insect agenc3'. But what if it were ? 

 Physiologicallv speaking, wliat benefit can it be to a composite 

 flower to be fertilized by another from its own head, even granting 

 the utmost asked b3' those who consider composites arranged for 

 cross-fertilization ? The composite flower is not a compound 

 flower, it is true. It is but an imperfect umbel. But each umbel 

 for all physiological purposes might as well be a single flower. 

 Side by side the flowers are set, as an}- one familiar with the dotted 

 thimble-like receptacle of dandelion ver3' well knew. The3' all 

 had just the same food, the same light, the same conditions of 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



life in eveiy material effect. If the familiar illustration by refer- 

 ence to the human family has any weight in plants, surely these 

 flowers must be brother and sister, in any sense claimed by insect 

 fertilizationists ; and the physiological benefits to the race would be 

 no more than if tlie whole head was a single flower, as a Ranun- 

 culus, instead of the compound flower we see. He then explained 

 the manner of fertilization in the ox-eye daisy. The united 

 column of stamens was forced from its holdings by the growing 

 pistil, which finall}' attempted the cleavage of the ai)ex, while still 

 holding the cap-like covering of anthers over it. The pollen fell 

 into the stigmatic cavity more easily than in the dandelion. In- 

 sects might visit it subsequently ; it would make no difference, 

 having already received its own pollen. 



In regard to clover, Mr. Meehan said that in his remarks at 

 Detroit last year, he had stated tliat he had watched a field of 

 clover, found remarkably few insects at work, and yet the crop of 

 seed was abundant, and that a careful examination of the clover 

 blossom in all its stages convinced him that from its structure 

 and behavior it was a self-fertilizer. He had been met with the 

 assertion tliat the first crop of clover never produces any seeds. 

 This was so generally believed that it must be true to a great 

 extent. He could not have been mistaken last year, but he visited 

 a field of two acres again a few days ago, and now exhibited heads 

 nearly mature, all the flowers with seeds, and these (June 6th) 

 about the first flowers that could have formed. On this visit he 

 watched the field for an hour, and in that time saw only eight 

 bumblebees at work, rather small grist, he thought, for so large a 

 mill, if all those flowers had to be insect fertilized. He watched 

 their motions closely, and found, to his astonishment, that in spite 

 of the elaborate arrangements for the work of the bumblebees in 

 the mouth of the corolla, they did not enter that way at all ! They 

 made a dU in the base of the tube, extracting the honey in this 

 surreptitious way. With this final fact, if found general, there 

 must be an end of the clover case. There was no bottom for the 

 " arrangements" to stand on. 



He had intended, he said, to rest the case here, but he had 

 mentioned to his friend, Professor Gray, that he had noted the 

 common bladder-nut, Staphylea t?- if alia, as being a self-fertilizer. 

 It was one of those observations so recently made bj^ him that he 

 should not have introduced it to this body without further investi- 

 gation ; but Dr. Gray had suggested to him to refer to it, as he 

 thought he could show it could not be fertilized except by insects, 

 so he detailed wliat he had seen simply in order to have the bene- 

 fit of Dr. Gray's experience. 



Dr. Asa Gray said that Mr. Meehan and himself, looking at 

 the same sul»jects with somewhat opposing prepossessions, were 

 a|)t to see different facts; that is, either was likely to notice some 

 particular which was not noticed by the other. For instance, Mr. 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPHTA. Ill 



Meehan Imd some little time ago called his attention to the blad- 

 der-nut ( Sfaphijlea) as a case of close fertilization; but Dr. Gray's 

 own observations, made in consequence of this suggestion, con- 

 vinced him that this was a good case of arrangement for cross- 

 fertilization. Like manj^ other flower?, it was capable of self- 

 fertilizing; for the anthers, charged with pollen, were contiguous 

 to the edges of the dilated stigmas. But what his acute friend 

 had omitted to notice was — that the flowers were hanging, and 

 that, although the anthers surround the stigmas, the pollen is not 

 ejected, but lies on the opened face of the anther in a thick coat- 

 ing, and when it falls, it will drop to the ground instead of upon 

 the receiving stigmatic surface; some, however, may come in con- 

 tact with its margin. Moreover, Dr. Gray found that the stigma 

 was earlier than the anthers by twent3'-four or forty-eight hours. 

 The stigmas, borne on styles then considerably longer than the 

 stamens, occupied the very entrance of the corolla as soon as it 

 began to open, and was, as he found, in condition to be pollenated 

 a day or two before the anthers of that blossom opened. Xow in 

 each raceme there were flowers in all stages, and the blossoms, as 

 Mr. Meehan declared, were the favorite resort of bees ; these while 

 feeding from a flower with anthers open must needs smear their 

 faces with the pollen, and w'hen visiting flowei's a da^' or two 

 younger deposit some of this pollen upon their stigma, at a time 

 when it could not possibly get any from its own anthers. 



As to Sc7'ophularia. his observations upon S. nodosa had pre- 

 pared him to make a different reading of the facts now shown in 

 S. canina. The arrangements for cross-fertilization in S. nodosa, 

 as detailed and figured in the little treatise which Mr. Meehan 

 referred to, seemed essentially similar in *S'. canina., except that 

 both stamens and style were much exserted. Mr. Meehan had 

 described the early protrusion of the style and tlie straightening 

 and lengthening of the filaments a day or two later, so as then to 

 bring the anthers into proximity with the stigma. But Dr. Gray 

 doubted if any of that pollen ever acted upon the contiguous 

 stigma, even if it reached it, thinking it more probable that the 

 stigma was by this time withered and past fertilizing, as was the 

 case in its relative, S. nodosa. The arrangement was a capital 

 one for cross-fertilization, bees passing from flower to flower, 

 brushing the same part of their body against the anthers of an 

 older and the stigma of a 3"ounger flower; while self-fertilization 

 was impracticable, at least, in S. nodosa, because no one flower 

 shed its pollen until its stigma was past receiving it. 



As to clover. Dr. Gray could now say nothing, except that it 

 was a member of a tribe of plants which, though seemingly ar- 

 ranged for self-fertilization, were actually for the most part capital 

 examples of the contrary. 



His attention had been called by Mr. Meehan to Dandelions, 

 which, from general recollection, he thought were frequented by 

 flying insects. The first walk he took in his own neighborhood 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



did not confirm this impression ; but on the second he found 

 small wasps and a dipterous insect bus}' with tlie dandelions, and 

 fl34ng from one to another, and also ants in abundance. It was 

 clear that the narrowness of tlie st3de-branches in this and other 

 liguliflorous compositse gave them a cliance for self-fertilization, 

 but their characters were equally good for crossing through insect 

 agenc}'. As to ox-eye daisy, he could not confirm Mr. Meehan's 

 description as to the carrying up of the anthers upon the style, 

 which must have been abnormal. Dr. Gray supposed that the 

 arrangement would be found to be likethat of the allied Feverfew, 

 which was well figured by Lubbock, after Ogle, and this clearly 

 betokened cross-fertilization. About Cambridge, ox-e3'e daisies 

 were so infested with small insects that ladies olyected to having 

 them brought into the house among cut flowers; and flying insects, 

 he thought, did not disdain them. 



As to the benefit of cross-fertilization, this was a large subject, 

 which could not be disposed of in a few words; but Dr. Gray thought 

 it probable tliat cross-breeding even of flowers in the same in- 

 florescence was better than self-fertilization, and that wiierever 

 this occurred wider crossing was common. 



Mr. Martindale called attention to the fact that, in the case of 

 Slaplndea, the stigma is I'ead}' for the pollen some time before it 

 can receive it, and suggested that, therefore, perhaps the first 

 flowers do not produce seed. 



Dr. Gray rejoined that it could seldom happen that the first 

 flower of everv' branch on a shrub or tree, or on different trees of 

 the neigiiborhood, all opened on the same day ; so that even the 

 earliest flower had a fair chance to be fertilized. 



Mr. Meehan handed a specimen of Orobus atro-purpureus from 

 the table, and remarked that it might aid in settling that ques- 

 tion ; as, so far as his recollection now served him, it was the 

 first flower of the season and of the raccjme, and onl}' the first 

 flowers that generall}' perfected seed. 



On Samarskite. — Joseph Willcox made some additional state- 

 ments in reference to samarskite, which, until recently, has been 

 a very rare mineral. Tlie first discovery of it in Mitchel County, 

 Nortli Carolina, occurred in the spring of 1S73, in a mica mine; 

 and during that and the succeeding year about 700 pounds of the 

 mineral were found, since which time the mine has not been 

 operated. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 113 



June 13. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the cliair. 



Thirty-two members present. 



A paper entitled " On the Occurrence of Helix ten-estris, Oheran., 

 in North America," b}' Wm. G. Mazyck, was presented for pub- 

 lication. 



On a Neic Genus of Fossil Fishes. — Prof. Cope described a 

 species of fish represented by a fragment of a jaAV, which was 

 said to have been derived from the phosphatic deposit near 

 Charleston, S. C. The fragment indicated a species of large 

 size, and supports alveoli or teeth to the number of ten in a space 

 of M. .080. The crowns of the teeth are compressed, with a 

 broadl3' rounded apex ; the section at the base being lenticular, 

 with sides swollen and apices produced. The latter are the 

 sections of a cutting edge, which constitute the apex as well as 

 the borders of the tooth. The longitudinal transverse section is 

 triangular. The root is not composed of dentine, but of an ossi- 

 fied pulp, of osseous tissue, as in the Pythonomorph. reptiles. 

 This portion is nearly concealed in the alveolus, and there are 

 no foramina along the inner side of the jaw communicating with 

 the pulp cavities. 



The succession of the teeth has been from below, as in the 

 Saurodontidse^ the crown of the young tooth being developed be- 

 low the centre of the root. Absorption followed ; so that the 

 centi'e of the root disappeared, leaving a cylinder with thin walls 

 of osseous tissue running at right angles to the fibres of the 

 inclosing jaw. The root has a lateral groove, which at this stage 

 constitutes a fissure opening into the central cavity of the ad- 

 joining root. The osseous tissue at the base of the crown is quite 

 spongy. Length of bases of five teeth M. .040, or long diameter 

 of crown at base M. .008. Transverse diameter of base of crown 

 .007 ; elevation of crown .010. 



This fish belongs to a genus hitherto unnamed, presenting 

 resemblance and perhaps afflnit}' to Pochyj-hizodus and Gono- 

 sauriis. It differs from both in the compressed trenchant crowns, 

 and from the first named in the entire inclusion of the roots in 

 alveoli. From Saurodontidse it ditfers in the absence of true 

 dentinal roots. It was named Gyclotoniodon, a,nd the species, 

 C. vagrans. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISTG. 



June 20. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty -two members present. 



The Botanical Section reported that a meeting for organization 

 had been held, and that officers had been elected, as follows: — 

 Director^ W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D. 



Vice-Director .^ Thos. Meehan. 

 Conservator^ Chas. F. Parker. 



Recorder^ Isaac Burk. 



Treaf^urer^ Jose 0. Schimmel. 



Secretary^ Henry Leffmann, M.D. 



Remarks on Vertebrate Fossils from the Phosphate Beds of South- 

 Carolina. — Prof. Leidy observed that in a further search among 

 the objects of the Agricultural Department of the Government 

 Building of the International Exhibition, he had found another 

 fossil specimen of a ziphioid cetacean. Like those previously 

 described, it consisted of a detached beak, from the property of 

 the Wando Mining Co., on the Ashley River, S. C, and was oblig- 

 ingly loaned l>3' Mr. Amidon. 



The specimen, exhibited to the Academy, has nearly the form 

 and other characters of the one last described under the name of 

 Proroziphius macrops. The bones are thoroughly co-ossified, and 

 the condition of the beak indicates a mature animal, smaller than 

 the species just named. The beak is 19 inches long in advance of 

 the nasal apertures, and is about 3f wide near tiie middle. The 

 supra-vomerian canal is closed over to within less than four inches 

 of the end of the beak by the comi:)lete coallescence of the inter- 

 maxillaries. The prenaroal foss?e are funnel-like, and terminate 

 forward in a canal penetrating tiie maxillaries instead of first 

 being prolonged into an open groove as in P. macrops. The 

 anterior extremit}^ is drilled in a remarkable degree by boring 

 molhisks. With the other specimens previously indicated, the 

 present one will be more fully described in a memoir on the verte- 

 brate fossils of the Ashle^^ phosphate beds. The species was 

 named Proroziphius chonops. 



Prof. Leidy further remarked that while examining the materials 

 from the different phosphate beds of South Carolina, and mainly 

 those exposed to view at the International Exhibition, his atten- 

 tion had been attracted liy the large size of many of the teeth 

 referred to Carcharodon megalodon. Among many teeth of this 

 species, and others of C. anguslidens, etc., contained in a shuw- 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



case of the Bradle}' Fertilizer Co., in the Agricultural Hall, there 

 is a megalodon tooth, from the Stouo River, which measures 6 

 inches 8 lines in median length from a level of the ends of the 

 root to the point of the crown, and 4 inches 8 lines in breadth 

 across the base. A second specimen in the same collection and 

 from the same locality is 6 inches in median length, and 5 inches 

 1 line in breadth. 



A specimen from tlie Ashley River, formerl}- in the possession 

 of Prof. Holmes, according to him, measures 6 inches 5 lines in 

 length, and 5 inches 5 lines in breadth, and weighs 2 lbs. 8 drachms, 

 apotliecaries' weight. 



These specimens are probably the largest shark teeth on record. 

 If the animals to which the}' pertained held anything like the 

 relation of length of body to the teeth as existing in the living 

 white shark, they must have been upwards of a hundred feet in 

 length. 



June 27. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fift3--one members present. 



Itemarks on the Bhizopod Genus Nebela. — Prof. Leidy stated 

 that in order to facilitate a ready reference to ordinar}- forms of 

 rhizopods, he was disposed with some other observers to restrict 

 the genus Difflugia to those rhizopods with lobose pseudopods, 

 which ordinaril}' possess a covering or test composed of extrane- 

 ous bodies, such as particles of quartzose sand, and diatome cases. 

 In the genus Xebela, which he had viewed as distinct from Difflu- 

 gia, the test is composed of discoid plates and minute rods, ap- 

 parently siliceous and intrinsic to the structure of the animal. 



To the genus Xebela probably belong the species named by 

 Elu'enberg, Difflugia coUaris^ D. cancellata^ D. carpio^ D. hino- 

 dis, D. annulafa, and D. laxa. Likewise the Difflugia peltigeracca 

 of Carter, most of the forms described by Wallich under the name 

 of Difflugia pyriformis, var. mjnivietrica^ and also the Difflugia 

 carinata of Archer. Formerl^^ Prof. L. had indicated several spe- 

 cies under the names of Xebela ansata, N. equi-calceus, N. sphagni^ 

 K. numafa, N. barbafa, and N.flabeUulum. Pr. A. N. S. 1874, 156. 



]Most of the above-named species of Ehrenberg had been re- 

 ferred by the same author to a group with the names of Reticella 

 and Allodict3'a, headed with a species named Difflugia atitero- 

 phora, which, so far as could be judged from the description and 

 figure, did not coincide with the characters of Xebela. Of the 

 forms referred to Difflugia si/mme(j'ica by Dr. Wallich, the first 

 one described has recently, by Scluilze, been viewed separately' from 

 the others as characteristic of a new genus with the name of 




116 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1876. 



Quadrula symmetrica. The test of this is coinposed of quadrate 

 plates, arranged in rows, like bricks in a wall. 



In all the species referred to Nebela, which have been o])served 

 by Prof. L., in all instances the test is compressed pyriform. 

 Wallich remarks in reference to the tests of Difflugia symmetrica., 

 that they "are sometimes so compressed as to give the aperture 

 the undulating appearance represented in Figs. 27, 29 and 30, but 

 more frequentl^^ the tests are not compressed, and the aperture 

 presents the ordinar3^ circular or nearly circular outline." 



The species Nebela numata, probably s^-nonymous with D. col- 

 laris, is an exceedingly abundant form, in much variety in our 

 sphagnum swamps, and illustrates well the character of the genus, 

 and also exemplifies the extraordinary variation in the structure 

 of the test, which appears to be common also in the other species 

 of Xebela. 



In some individuals of Nebela numata^ the test is composed of 

 or invested with comparatively large circular disks of uniform size, 

 as represented in the diagram (Fig. 1). In other individuals the 

 disks are of the same character, but oval as in Fig. 2. In other 



Fiff. 1. 



Fisc. 2. 



individuals again the test is invested with circular or oval disks 

 as in the former, but separated, nniformly scattered, and with the 

 intervals filled with small circular disks as in Fig. 3. In otiier in- 

 stances large circular or oval disks occupy the fundus of the test, 

 and small ones extend from one-half of the body to the mouth, 

 sometimes mingled with a few of the larger disks. In some in- 

 stances the test is composed of minute circular disks alone, or 

 with a few large oval or larger circular ones scattered here and 

 there. 



Generally the disks of the tests are sharply defined, closely 

 placed, and touching at their contiguous edges. Sometimes they 

 are crowded, and assume in a certain focus a more or less pol}'- 

 gonal outline. Sometimes they appear to overlap the edges. 

 Usually' very distinct ; the}' are sometimes more or less indistinct. 




1876.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



in 



The large disks in a certain focus appear centrally shaded, and 

 exhibit a striking resemblance to ordinary blood corpuscles. 



Not unfrequently the test is mainly or almost entirely composed 

 of minute rods, placed in alternating oblique patches, with a few 

 minute round disks, as in Fig. 4. In other tests the disks pre- 



Fig. 3. 



Fig. 4. 



dominate. In some tests large and small disks and rods are in- 

 termingled. In other tests larger, and fusiform rods, probal)ly 

 diatomes, are mingled with disks, as in Fig. 5. 



Between the structural forms of the tests indicated, all sorts of 

 intermediate forms are found. Occasionally, mingled with the 

 more intrinsic elements of the tests, there are un- 

 doubted diatome cases, and rarely distinct and com- 

 paratively larger particles of siliceous sand. 



Prof. L. looked upon the disks and rods of the 

 test of Nebela as intrinsic structural elements. They 

 appear to be siliceous, as they undergo no change in 

 heated sulphuric acid. No similar elements could 

 be detected among the ordinary materials among 

 which the animals lived. 



Dr. Wallich regards the disks and rods, of the 

 forms he has called Difflugia jnjriformis var. sym- 

 metrica^ as being derived through the metamorpho- 

 sis of diatome cases, through the combination of 

 these with the basal substance of the test. In the 

 reference to his figures 27 to 33 An. and 3Iag. Nat. 

 Hist. 1864, pi. he says that th'ey "represent the series of forms 

 exhibiting the transition from the ordinary mineral and chitinoid 

 elements of the test to the evolution of the colloid di.sks." Prof. 

 L. remarked that notwithstanding he had examined multitudes 

 of Nebela, he was not prepared to confirm this view, though he 

 had too much respect for Dr. Wallich 's accuracy of observation 

 to doubt its correctness. 



The figures 1-4 represent ordinary forms of N. numata ; and 



Fig. 5. 




118 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1876. 



Figure 5 the relative compression of the test. Figure 6 is the 

 form described as N. flabellulum, which ma}^ be regarded as an 

 extrerael}^ broad variety of the former. Figure 7 represents the 

 relative thickness of the same test. Between the forms referred 

 to N. numnta and N. Jlabellulum, all sorts of transitional ones 

 occur. Figures 8, 9 exhibit two views of a narrow form of N. 

 numata, which resembles the Difflugia hinodis of Ehrenberg. 



Fig. 6. 



Fig. 7. 



Fig. 8. 



Fig. 9. 



Figure 10 represents an outline view of Nebela carinata, or Dif- 

 flugia carinafa of Archer, from sphagnum of New Jersey. Fig- 

 ure 11 represents a transverse section. Figure 12 Nebela equi- 



Fig. 11. 



Fig. 14. 



Fig. 15. 



Fiff. 10. 



Fig. 13. 



calceus, a transitional form from 

 N.carinata. P'igure 13 a trans- 

 verse section. Figure \i Nebela. 

 anaata^ which looks as if it were 

 derived from the former by the loss of the horse-shoe-like ribs. 

 Figure 15, another form observed, unnamed, in which, instead of 

 the horse-slioe of Figure 12, there are two hook-like processes pro- 

 jecting in the interior of the test. Figures 10, 17 outlines of Ne- 




18Y6.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



119 



bela sphagni. Figure 18 Nebela harbata. For characters of the 

 species see Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1874, 156. 



Flo;. 16. 



Fie. 17. 



Fig. 18. 



On Certain Trap Rocks from BrazU.—Frof. Persifor Frazer, 

 Jr., stated that during a recent engagement by the Commission 

 of Brazil to the International Exhibition, now being held here, 

 to examine and arrange the ores, minerals, and rocks of tiiat 

 country-, a number of traps were obtained, of which thin sections 

 had been submitted to a preliminar}' investigation. 



These have been studied witliout the aid of chemical analysis, 

 and the results, so far, are hereby laid before the Academ}'. 



It is evident that this mode of determination cannot by itself be 

 exhaustive, but it is believed that some new facts are hereby 

 added to our knowledge of the igneous rocks of the globe, and a 

 close analogy between certain species of North and South Ame- 

 rica made out. It was not possible to ascertain the localities in 

 all cases. The following is a partial list : — 



No. 580. — Between Casa Branca and Rio das Pedras. 



No. 58V. — Between Ouro Preto and Casa Branca. 



No. 610. — From Resaquinha. 



No. 790. — Procedencia Morrotos. 



The following is a hast}- glance at their mineral constituents : — 



No. 279. — Dolerite. Labradorite, Pyroxene, Chlorite, and 

 ^Magnetite. 



No. 5S0. — Pyroxenite rock, with microliths. 



No. 587. — Pyroxene and Biotite. 



No. 591. — Decomposed mass, containing Pyroxene and Mag- 

 netite. 



No. 610. — Chlorite, with concretions of Ferric Hydrate. 



No. 635. — Under 230 diameters, and without polarized light, 

 the " flowing" structure is well shown. 



Between crossed Nicol's prisms the lines which resemble micro- 

 liths exhibit an intricate network and polarize from white to 

 light Ijlue. Under 1080 diameters the above lines seem to be 

 corrugations or clefts in the mass, while a new set of minute 

 black and brown prismatic crystals come into view, indicating by 

 the aradual curve in the line of their direction also a " flow 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



structure." Chr^'solite (Olivine) and Mica appear to be present 

 in this specimen. 



No. 665. — Labradorite rock, with bundles of microliths. Con- 

 taining also pyroxene and magnetite. 



No, 684. — With an enlargement of 350 diameters and between 

 Nicol's prisms this specimen exhibits Labradorite and Pj-roxene 

 (one beautiful main section of the latter). The blades of labra- 

 dorite are smaller and the pyroxene less distributed through the 

 mass than in No. 706. 



Another mineral not certainly determined polarizes from green 

 to black. 



No. 692. — Pyroxene in a vitreous paste, containing Chlorite. 

 No. 706. — With a magnifying power of 230 diameters this 

 section exhibits a mass of brown and reddish-brown fragments of 

 irregular shape. 



The cross fractures are numerous and irregular. Various an- 

 gles of fracture were found to give 84° 47', 78° 51', 73° 20', 53° 

 59', and 88° 28', but the micro-goniometer employed could not 

 be relied on for angles of less than 1°. 



The latter of these measurements is sufficiently near the pris- 

 matic angle of Augite {i. e. 87"^ 5'), to suggest the presence of that 

 mineral. 



Many slabs of Labradorite are associated with it, each of which 

 is readily detected by its characteristic mode of twinning. 



Black masses of Magnetite are strewn through the field of 

 view, and some rod-like Apatite. 



Under 350 diameters more cr3'stals of Apatite appear. 

 With Q7ie prism, isolated spots of the mineral first described 

 show feeble dichroism. Dolerite. 



No. 769. — Decomposed Pyroxene, with Magnetite and Labra- 

 dorite. The specimen shows signs of the passage of Dolerite into 

 a rock more nearly resembling Diabase from the presence of a 

 chloritic material (perhaps the " Diabantite" of Hawes), and its 

 generally decomposed appearance. 



j<o. 786. — Under 108O diameters Chlorite and Pyroxene are 

 visible, together with a w-hite, pasty glass. 



No. 790. — Feldspar, Olivine, Magnetite, and Apatite. 

 No. 795. — Dolerite. Consists of Pyroxene, Magnetite, Labra- 

 dorite, and large numbers of Apatite crj-stals. 



(The sections of the Magnetite and of the Apatite crystals are 

 very fine.) 



Feeble dichroism is observed in spots on the Pyroxene. No 

 Mica visible. 



No. 795. — Pyroxene, Magnetite, Labradorite, and a large num- 

 ber of Apatite crystals. 



X. Magnetite, Chrysolite, Labradorite, and some Pyroxene. 

 x' . Labradorite, Pyroxene, Magnetite, and Apatite. Dolerite. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Thin sections of these rocks and also those of similar character 

 from Penns3'lvania were projected on the screen in pohirized liglit 

 and compared. 



Harvey Fisher, Geo. A. Wright, A. C. Lambdin, M.D., John 

 Russel, J. C. Martindale, and A. E. Brown were elected members. 

 The following papers were ordered to be published : — 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18*16. 



ON CERTAIN MEXICAN METEORITES. 

 BY MARIANO BARCENA. 



At the last meeting of the Academy, Prof, Smith having spoken 

 of an aerolite from Chihuahua, I have thought proper to relate 

 some facts about other Mexican meteorites. 



Certainly, my country is most abundantly provided with these 

 meteoric masses ; to the present time they have been found in 

 the States of Chihuahua, Sonora, Sinaloa, Nuevo-Leon, Coahuila, 

 Zacatecas, Durango, San Luis Potosi, Mexico, and Oaxaca. 



The most notable masses which have been discovered in Chi- 

 huahua are found in the " Concepcion hacienda," and in a place 

 called " Chupaderos." I have seen two pictures of one of the 

 meteorites of the former place, and, according to the explicatory 

 scale which the drawing had, I could judge that it was of great 

 dimensions ; its form, like that of all the meteorites of Mexico, 

 tends to that of a prism of curved faces, and presenting various 

 irregularities. They have assured me that the mass which is 

 found in Chupaderos is of greater dimensions than the one I have 

 mentioned. 



Other meteoric irons of various dimensions are found in the 

 vicinity of the '•' Presidio del Principe,'' in the same State of Chi- 

 huahua. The National Museum of Mexico possesses various 

 facts about these masses, and probably will get some of the 

 latter, as the inhabitants of that State have promised to send 

 some of them. 



The Mexican Society of Natural History of the City of Mexico 

 received last year a picture and some small fragments of an 

 enormous meteoric mass lately discovered in the State of Sinaloa. 

 Although I do not remember at present its exact dimensions, 

 still I can assure the Academy that its lengtli was more than 

 twelve feet. I have commenced to analyze that meteorite, and I 

 will conclude tlie work on my return to Mexico. Like those to 

 which I have referred, it belongs to the class of the Siderites of 

 Mr. Daubr^e — as it is composed essentially of iron and nickel. It 

 is of a silver-white and grayish color. 



The aerolites of Nuevo-Leon and Coahuila were found in 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



" Santa Rosa" and in the " Potosi." The facts we have regard- 

 ing them are few and insignificant. 



From Zacatecas they have taken to En rope varions samples of 

 meteoric irons; one of them was analj'zed hy Clark, and had the 

 following composition : — 



Iron 86.09 



Nickel 9.96 • 



Chromimii 0.67 



Sulphur 0.84 



Magnesia 0.19 



97.75 



Baron Humboldt and other persons have also carried to Europe 

 some samples of meteorites from Durango. The analj'sis made 

 by Mr. Damonr of the aerolite of the Mezqnital is known ; the 

 composition is the following : — 



Iron 93.38 



Nickel 5.89 



Cobalt 0.39 



Phosphorus 0.23 



99.89 



In tlie National Museum of the City of Mexico exists another 

 meteoric mass, which came from the " Cascaria" hacienda in the 

 State of Durango. It is composed in great part of iron, and, on 

 attacking its surface with acid, the figures of Widmastaeten appear 

 very clearly — the dominant form of these figures being quadri- 

 lateral. 



In the State of San Luis Potosi two aerolites of lai'ge dimen- 

 sions were found. One of them, called " Meteorito de la Descu- 

 bridora," was sent four years ago to the Mexican Society of 

 Geography' and Statistics of the City of Mexico, by Messrs. 

 Cabrera and Yrizar of the City of San Luis Potosi. This mass, 

 which weighed 576 kilogrammes, was divided in several pieces for 

 the purpose of making some investigations as to its structure. 

 The form of the meteorite was also prismatic; it resembled that 

 of a pyramid with a triangular base ; the drawing taken with a 

 photographic apparatus presented in its outline several lines well 

 determined, which formed triangular and quadrilateral figures 

 very similar to tliose produced by h3'drochloric acid upon the 

 polished surface of tlie same mass. The color of the aerolite is 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



grayish-white, and its texture is notablj- crystalline. Its specific 

 weight is 7.38. It is composed of 



Iron 89.51 



Nickel 8.05 



Cobalt 1.94 



Sulphur 0.45 



Chromium trace 



Loss 0.05 



100.00 



The resistance of that iron to rupture by compression is 38 

 kilogrammes to the square millimetre; the resistance to the rupture 

 by extension is 40 kilogrammes, being the section of the metallic 

 thread of a square millimetre. The coefficient of lineal dilatation 

 between 0° and 100° is 0.0000701. 



The analysis of the meteorite in question was made by the 

 Mexican chemist, Don Patricio Murphy ; the other studies were 

 made by a commission, of which I had the honor of being a 

 member. 



My learned friend, Prof. James D. Dana, of New Haven, pos- 

 sesses a fragment of this meteorite, which I sent to him, and in 

 which the figures of Widraasstaeten are perfectly formed. The 

 meteoric iron of the " Descubridora" is also very notable for the 

 many cavities which it has in its interior, and which are occupied 

 by the troilite or proto-sulphide of iron. It presents itself under 

 the form of a cr3'stalline powder of a bronze-yellowish color. 



Another meteorite from the State of Zacatecas, which was found 

 in the vicinity of " Charcas" was taken to the Museum of Paris 

 b}' the French army. Its form is like that of a triangular pyra- 

 mid. Its anal3'sis was made by Prof. Mennier, and is as follows: — 



Iron . . ■ 93.01 



Nickel 4.33 



Insohible matter in acids 0.70 



98.03 



In the State of Mexico have been found several meteorites 

 called " Ocotitlan," " Toluca," " Yxtlahuaca," and Xiqiiipilco." 

 The first three were taken to Europe : the " Ocotitlan" was studied 

 by Profs. Burkart and Bergeman, who, on analj'sis, found the fol- 

 lowing composition : — 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Iron 85.49 



Nickel 8.17 



Cobalt 0.56 



Insoluble matter in acids comprising Schreibersite, Gra- 

 phite, etc 5.00 



99.13 



In Xiquipilco the meteoric irons are very abundant, and all 

 proceed probably from a great mass which was broken into pieces. 

 A sample from that locality analyzed by Mr. Pugh had the fol- 

 lowing composition : — 



Iron 90.43 



Nickel 7.63 



Cobalt 0.73 



Phosphorus 0.15 



Sulphur 0.03 



Copper and tin 0.03 



Schreibersite 0.56 



Graphite 0.34 



99.88 



The specimens of a meteoric iron from Xiquipilco are very re- 

 markable for their crj'stalline structure. Schreibersite is found 

 under the form of white and flexible laminae determining octahe- 

 dral cleavages. In the same collection which the Mexican Society 

 of Xatural History of the City of Mexico sent to the Interna- 

 tional Exposition, is found a sample of iron from Xiquipilco, in 

 which I discovered a part of a regular octahedron, raising the 

 laminae of the Schreibersite, which are located in perfect regu- 

 larity on the specimen. 



The Xational Museum of the City of Mexico sent also to the 

 Exhibition a sample of meteoric iron from the same locality ; in it 

 is observed an oxidized layer which presents several green spots 

 produced by the compounds of nickel which it contains. That 

 la3er to which I refer is characteristic of the iron from Xiqui- 

 pilco. 



In the State of Oaxaca have been found two verj' remarkable 

 meteoric masses, which are distinguished b^^the names of "Mixteca 

 Iron" and " Yanhuitlan Iron." 



The first was studied by Profs. Burkart and Bergeman ; its 

 composition is the following : — 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T6. 



Iron 86.857 



Nickel 9.917 



Cobalt 0.74 J 



Phosphorus 0.070 „ ^„, , , . 



c, , , ^ ^„ r ".■^34 carbon and iron. 



Sulphur 0.553 j n n-Q i . 



Till • 1 • ., -1 ^ ^.v- ( 0-0'i3 phosphorus. 



Insoluble residue m the acids . . 0.975 i r^ a^-, ] ^ -.^^ ■ ■, , 



1 0.451^ 0.133 nickel. 



99.117 '^ ^ 0.265 iron. 



The meteorite " Yanhuitlan" is found at present in the National 

 Museum of the City of Mexico. It was found in the vicinity of 

 Yanhuitlan, by some countrymen when they were tilling the soil, at 

 the foot of a hill called Deque-Yucumino. Its weight is 91 6 pounds. 



The figure of tliis mass is very interesting, as it approaclies 

 remarkably to that of a tetrahedron. Its color is grayish-white. 

 Its specific weight is 7.824, and its composition, discovered by the 

 celebrated Mexican chemist, Don Leopoldo Rio de la Loza, is the 

 following : — 



lion .......... 96.58183 



Nickel 1.83200 



Volatile substances 0.36210 



Silicious sands 0.00560 



Carbon 0.00018 



Lime 0.60815 



Alumina 0.61015 



100.000 

 There are other facts about several meteorites from Mexico, but 

 the places where the latter are found are not well determined. 



That peculiar property, difficult of explanation, which the Mexi- 

 can soil has in attracting the meteoric irons, is even noticed at 

 present ; numerous are the shooting stars which cross the atmos- 

 phere of tliat republic, and more especiall}-^ in the months of 

 August and Xovember. This phenomenon, which is also observed 

 in other parts of the world, I have seen on various occasions in 

 my country. Latel}' one of tliose shooting stars came against a 

 summer-house in the State of Puebla, causing much damage to 

 the occupants. 



The studies which may be made beforehand of the physical 

 characters and the chemical composition of the meteorites of 

 Mexico, will group tlie latter in series, and will refer man}- of thera, 

 perhai)s, to the same origin, as it is the case witli the " Xiquipilco" 

 meteorite, which, by its crystalline structure and other properties, 

 may be thought to proceed from tlie same mass. • 




18t6.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



127 



ON THE OCCUKRENCE OF HELIX TERRESTRIS, CHEMNITZ, 

 IN NORTH AMERICA, 



BY WM. G. MAZYCK. 



Ill Jul}', 1875, I accidentally discovered a nuniber of dead shells 

 of Helix terrestris, Chemnitz, in St. Peter's (Episcopal) church- 

 yard, Logan Street, Charleston, S. C, bat, notwithstanding a 

 most diligent search, no living examples of the species could be 

 found at that time, owing probabl}"^ to the prevalence of an almost 

 unprecedented drought. 



In September, I was, howcA^er, fortunate enough to secure two 

 living specimens; which were sent to my friend Mr. W. G. Binne}' 

 for examination, who kindly furnishes the following description of 

 the jaw and figures of the lingual dentition : — 



"Jaw sllghtl}' arcuate, low, wide; ends blunt, slightly acumi- 

 nate; anterior surface with over 14 broad, crowded, flat ribs, 

 slightly denticulating either margin." 



Von Martens (Albers' Heliceen, p. 116) places the species in 

 the sub-genus Turricula, Beck, giving as the habitat, "Italy and 

 Southern France." I have never heard of its occurrence elsewhere 

 until its discovery in Charleston, where it exists, as far as I can 

 ascertain, onlj- in St. Peter's churchyard, accompanied b}^ Helix 

 aspersa, Mtiller, E. Hopetonensis, Shuttlw., Zonites minuscului<^ 

 Binney, Pupa marginafa, Say, and Sfenoyyra decoJIafa, Linnaeus, 

 which latter is exceedingly abundant throughout the cit3\ 



St. Peter's Church was burnt in the great fire of December 12, 

 186 1, at which time the greater portion of the shrubbeiy of the 

 gravcA'ard was also destroj-ed. The ruins of the building were 

 removed about two years ago, and, the shrubbery not having been 

 renewed, there is but little shade, a circumstance which has, doubt- 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T6. 



less, greatl}' retarded the propagation of the species which has 

 probably existed in small numbers for several years in this ver}^ 

 restricted localit}'. 



I am indebted to Mr. Thomas Bland for the determination of 

 the specific name. 



Specimens of the dead shells have been deposited in the Museum 

 of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., in the cabinets of 

 Mr. W. G. Binney and Mr. Thos. Bland, and may be seen in my 

 own collection. 





"fe 



CO 



p 



CO 







CD 



O 

 C3 





CO 



CD 



5 



o 



G 

 CD 

 CTJ 




1876.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



129 



FOURTH CONTRIBUTION TO THE HISTORY OF THE EXISTING CETACEA. 



BY E. D. COPE. 

 Grampus griseus, Cuvier. PI. III. 



A specimen apparent!}^ belonging to this species was taken by 

 the United States Commission of Fisheries off the coast of Mas- 

 sachusetts. Its appearance may be learned from the accompany- 

 ing plate, which is copied from a drawing made on the spot by 

 the artist of the Commission. Its length is five feet five inches; 

 the length of the pectoral fin, measured along its median line, is 

 nine inches. 



Globicephalus brachypterus, sp. nov. 



Globicephalus? sp. nov., Cope, Proceediugs Academy Philadelphia, 

 1866, p. 8. 



A female of this genus was taken by fishermen, in February of 

 the present year, on the east coast of Delaware Bay, at the mouth 

 of Maurice River, and was sent to this city, where it fell under 

 m}'^ observation. Tts uninjured condition offered an opportunity 

 of making a description of its external proportions and appear- 

 ance. This had been a desideratum, since the examination of a 

 cranium several jears ago had led me to susjject that the black- 

 fish of the middle and southern Atlantic coasts of the United 

 States is a different species from the Globicej)halus melas of the 

 northern coasts of both continents. 



The measurements of this specimen are as follows 



Total length, measured along the side 



Length to base of dorsal fin 



Length of base of dorsal fin 



Elevation of the dorsal fin . 



Length of the pectoral fin 



Greatest width of pectoral fin 



"Width of thorax between pectoral fins 



Depth at middle of dorsal fin 



Length from vent to end of tail (on convexity) 



Depth of caudal peduncle half way between anus and end 



of tail 



Expanse of flukes .... 



The color is a uniform black, without any marking 



Feet. 

 13 



In. 



6.5 

 37 

 24 



9 

 25.5 



7 

 18 

 35 

 52 



22 

 43 



s whatever. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



The profile of the bead has the protuberant convexit}'- of the 

 other Glohicephali, with a verj' narrow projecting lip. The gene- 

 ral form of the bod}' is elongate, more so than in the G. melas ; 

 and the dorsal fin has a more anterior position. Instead of 

 standing near the middle of the length, it rises at the end of the 

 anterior fourth of the length. Its base is unusually long, and its 

 elevation not great. Its superior border is convex, and the apex 

 decurved behind so as to be slighth' descending. The posterior 

 or caudal part of the hody is much compressed, and maintains its 

 depth with a very gradual diminution until near the flukes, where 

 it contracts more rapidly. The blow-hole is situated at a point 

 less than half way between the points opposite the eye and front 

 base of pectoral fin ; it forms a fissure, which presents a shallow 

 concavity forwards. The anterior base of the pectoral fin is 

 situated at the anterior third of the distance between the blow- 

 hole and the front border of the dorsal fin. It is characterized l)y 

 its relatively small size, and offers one of the distinguishing 

 features of the species. It enters the total length six times, while 

 in the G. melas, according to Van Beneden, it enters the total 4.5 

 times in a full}' grown fretus, and the length increases with age, 

 according to Flower, so that its proper length would be about 

 one-fourth of the total. This measurement nearl}^ agrees with 

 that given by Dr. Jackson, as obtained b}' him from a specimen 

 from the New England coast, which I suppose to belong to the 

 G. melas. In a specimen taken b}' the U. S. Fish Commission, 

 the length of the pectoral fin is nearly as in the G. hrachypterus. 

 This probably represents the G. intennedius, Harl., and has a 

 white abdominal l)aud, and light gular areas. 



The teeth in the specimen from Maurice River are small, and 

 number five in the upper jaw and six in the lower. There is a 

 mammary fissure on one side of the vulva, and a fissure with an 

 additional fold on the other side. 



The skeleton of this specimen presents several interesting char- 

 acteristics. The cranium differs from that of G. melas in the ante- 

 rior lateral expansion of the premaxillary bones, so that they 

 entirely conceal the maxillaries when viewed from above. This 

 character is not seen in numerous specimens of the G. melas from 

 Cape Cod. The front teeth are less firmly implanted in alveoli 

 than those of the G. melas ; thus on one side of the maxillary 

 bone, four alveoli are filled with osseous deposit; and on the 




18TG.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



131 



other side, one. The cervical vertebrae are all coosslfied, aud 

 Ihey present no parapophyses, and but one diapophysis on each 

 side (the seventh). Three segments of the sternum are preserved, 

 which are lonoer than broad, tlie anterior two coossified. The first 



Fisr. 1. 



one is furnished with recurved antero-lateral processes, and is 

 divided in front by an oval foramen. The scapula is as wide as 

 high ; it presents a rather long, truncate, coracoid process, and a 




132 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[18T6. 



prominence of the proximal part of the spine, which represents 

 the acromion. 



The cranium which I formerh'- described (Proceedings Academy 

 Philada., 1866, p. 8) is that of an adult of full size. I remarked 



Fiff. 2. . 



at that time that it differed from the crania of the G. melas from 

 the European and New England coasts in the greater width of 

 the premaxillary bones, which extend to the lateral borders of 




1876.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



133 



the basal two-fifths of the maxillaries ; and also in the small 

 uumber of maxillary teeth, there being onlj' five alveoli in the 

 upper jaw. The existence of the same number of teeth in the 



Fig. 3. 



specimen now described proves that this small number in the 

 adult is not due to shedding, or connected with age, and it is 

 probably a constant character of this species. In the G. melas 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



there are ten teeth in the maxillary bone, as I have observed on 

 numerous specimens from the New England coast. 



In review, the GlohicephaJus brachyplerus is characterized by 

 the short pectoral fins, the few teeth, the wide premaxillarj' bones, 

 and the absence of white band along the median line of the lower 

 surfaces. The anterior position of the dorsal fin is also probably 

 characteristic. In the two characters first enumerated, it ap- 

 proaches the genus Grampus more nearly than does any other 

 Av ell-known GlohicephaJus. 



The cuts represent the profile and superior and inferior surfaces 

 of the skull of the larger individual above mentioned. 

 Phocaena lineata, sp. nov. 



This new porpoise is represented b3^ a single specimen, which 

 was taken in the harbor of New York not maiij^ months ago, and 

 sent to the Smithsonian Institution, where the skeleton is now 

 preserved. Under direction of Professor Baird, a plaster cast of 

 the animal was made and colored directly from the specimen, with 

 the excellent result of offering a means of stud\'more reliable than 

 the dried skin, where the form is likel}" to be distorted from various 

 causes, and the color changed by the action of the oil. A large 

 number of skeletons and two plaster casts of the common por- 

 poise of our coast {Phocaena hracliycium) having also been pre- 

 pared under the direction of Prof. Baird, ample means for the 

 comparison of the two species exist. The Smithsonian collection 

 embraces also two crania of the P. communis from the Norwegian 

 coast, and two of the P. vomerina, Gill, from Puget Sound, 

 Washington Territory'. 



A comparison of these crania develops the following distinctive 

 characters of three species. I may premise that a second cranium 

 in the Smithsonian collection, and one in the museum of the 

 Philadelphia Academy, agree in characters with that of the P. 

 lineata. 



Phoccena communu, Brookes (ISTos. 3507-8). 



Vomer not at all or very little exposed behind posterior border 

 of palatine bones, which are not separated from the pterygoids b}- 

 deep entrant notches. 



Phoccena brachyrium, Cope (P. amerieana, Agass., fide Yerrill ; not de- 

 . scribed), Proceed. Acad. Philada., 1863, p. 279. 



Vomer with a narrow transverse protuberance behind the pala- 

 tines, which are separated from the pter3'goids by a deep notch. 




1816.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



135 



Plioccena lineata, Cope, sp. nov. 



Vomer with an extensive development behind the posterior 

 margin of the paLatine bones, forming an inverted table; the 

 pterj'go-voraerine outline forming an M. 



The skull of the P. vovierina, Gill, differs in no appreciable 

 degree from that of P. hrachycium^ and it remains to ascertain in 

 what respect other parts of its structure present distinctive cha- 

 racters. 



The Phocsena lineata presents various features which distinguish 

 it from the P. brachyciam. The bodj' is relatively' larger and 

 longer, the length of the cranium entering the total six times ; 

 while that of P. brachycium is onl}' one-fifth the total length. 

 The base of the pectoral fin is situated more than half way be- 

 tween the end of the muzzle and the line of the anterior base of 

 the dorsal fin. The dorsal region and border of the dorsal fin are 

 entirel}' smooth, in the cast as in life, according to my friend, G. 

 Brown Goode, of the U. S. Fish Commission, who examined the 

 skin. There are twenty-four teeth of the typical form in each 

 ramus of the mandible. 



The color of this porpoise is quite characteristic. The upper 

 surface to the middle line of each side is black. This color is 

 bounded below from a point behind and below the eye to a foot in 

 front of the end of the tail by a rosy-brown. The lower surfaces 

 are whitisli. The pectoral fin is black, the color being isolated 

 from the black of the sides by the white and rosy colors described. 

 Its black color is continued forwards and upwards as a narrow 

 band to a point about three inches below the eye. 



In the following measurements some comparisons are made with 

 the P. brachycium. 



Total lengtli 



Length of skull 



Length to base of dorsal fin ... . 

 Length to posterior base pectoral 



Width of skull at notch 



"Width of skull above orbits .... 



Elevation of cranium 



Length of head to below blow -hole 

 Length of head to eye (inclusive) . 

 Length of posterior edge of pectoral fin . 

 Elevation of dorsal fiu 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1816. 



In further comparison with the P. hrachycium I may add, that 

 the casts preserved in the Smithsonian collection show that the 

 colors of that species are widely different from those of F. lineata. 

 They are black above, and the bellj'^ has a narrow yellow longitudi- 

 nal band, which fades into a lead-color on the sides which com- 

 mences at the axilla, and is marked with numerous brown spots. 

 The sides of the tliroat are black, and this color continues poste" 

 rioi'ly and involves the entire pectoral fin and parts immediately 

 above it on the side. This specimen with numerous crania is 

 from Eastport, Maine. 



This, or a nearly allied species, is stated by F. Cuvier (Cetacea, 

 p. 171) to be found on the European coast. The relative length 

 of the head to the body is as in Phocsena lineata^ and his fig. 1, 

 pi. xii., represents a coloration nearly similar to the individual 

 from New York Harbor. He does not distinguish it from the P. 

 communis^ although it differs entirely from the descriptions of that 

 species. 



Lagenorhynchus perspicillatus, sp. nov. 



This species is represented in the collections of the Smithsonian 

 Institution by numerous crania, some skeletons and a colored 

 cast of the natural size, taken by the United States Commission 

 of Fisheries, near Portland, Maine. Professor Baird, Chief of the 

 Commission, states, that it is an abundant cetacean, and the fact 

 that it has been hitherto unrecorded is doubtless due to the 

 absence of facilities for obtaining these creatures, Avithin reach of 

 naturalists. 



The species belongs to the Delphinidse without palatal grooves 

 {Lagenorhynchus^ Graj'), and to the section with flat muzzle of 

 the cranium, and short beak of the integuments of the head. 



The muzzle is longer than the brain case, measured internally, 

 and a little longer than the cranium posterior to the maxillary'- 

 notch. The occiput is convex, and the basal premaxillary triangle 

 is an oblique plane a little elevated above the maxillaries at the 

 sides. The anterior part of the triangle is rugose, and extends to 

 the end of the basal fifth of the muzzle, measuring from the notch. 

 In this portion the muzzle is flat with slightly recurved edges ; in 

 the remaining part, the section is depressed roof-shaped. Teeth 

 |§ acute, curved, directed outwards, and of medium size. The 

 palate between the pterygoid bones is concave. The last tooth 

 reaches to within an inch of the fundus of maxillar}- notch, and at 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 137 



that point the sides of the palate slope obliquelj^ upwards and 

 outwards. The measurements of the cranium are as follows : — 



Inches. Lines. 



Total length . .16 



Length of brain case (internal) 4 6 



Length of muzzle to notch 8 9 



Length to blow-hole 11 



Width of muzzle at notch 4 6 



Width of cranium above orbits 8 2 



Width of muzzle at distal fourth 2 3 



Length of a tooth beyond alveolus 5 



The general outline of this species is fusiform. The beak is 

 well marked, and separated from the front b}' a groove. The 

 front does not rise abruptly, but slopes gently backwards in con- 

 tinuation of the dorsal line. The dorsal fin is higher than long, 

 and its apex is not decurved. The caudal peduncle is compressed 

 and descends rather abruptl}- to the flukes. The typical specimen 

 is about six feet in length. 



The dorsal region is black to a line which begins in front of 

 the eye, extends along the sides above their middle, and descend- 

 ing includes the entire caudal fluke. From the latter it sends 

 forwards a narrow horizontal bar to a point half way to the 

 dorsal fin, and which does not reach the abdomen. In front the 

 black includes the entire upper lip, and sends posteriorly a short 

 bar which includes the eye. The edge of the lower lip and the 

 pectoral fin, with a line from the latter nearly'' to the former, are 

 also black. The sides are a lead color as far as a line which 

 •leaves the lower-lip border at the middle, extends above the 

 pectoral fin, descending b}- a Z-shaped border below the posterior 

 edge of the dorsal fin, and extends to the black longitudinal bar 

 of the caudal peduncle. Below this the surface is white. 



The t^'pical specimen is six feet in lehgth. 



This dolphin is, according to the descriptions, allied to the L. 

 acutus of Gra}' (D. eschrichtii, Schleg.), especiall_y in the charac- 

 ters of the cranium. The desedptions of the coloration of that 

 species are quite diflerent from that of the L. perspicillatus. A 

 figure given b}' M. Poelman (Bulletin Acad. Ko3'al Belgique, 

 xvii. p. 608) represents the black longitudinal band of the 

 caudal peduncle of L. perspiciUatus to be extended forwards so 

 as to unite with the black of the dorsal region on the side, thus 

 inclosing above it a longitudinal white and pink area. The black 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1870- 



of the upper surfaces also involves the eye, which is, therefore, 

 not surrounded by the spectacle-like mark of the L. perspicillatua. 

 Other material differences in the coloration are also apparent. 

 The colors of the L. leucopleurus are more like those of the pre- 

 sent animal ; but here also the black line of the side extends far 

 forwards, and there is a short black line througli the eye instead 

 of the spectacle-like figure. The measurements of the skull differ 

 from those of this species, and agree with those of the L. acutiis, 

 as given by Dr. Gray. (See Annals and Magaz. Nat. Hist., 1864, 

 133, pi. 3.) 

 Lagenorkynclius gnbernator, sp. nov. PI. IV. 



This delphinoid was taken by the U. S. Fish Commission at 

 near the same locality as the last. Two plaster casts were made 

 and colored from the fresh specimens. These display differences 

 from those of the L. perspiciUafus, which are doubtless specific, 

 although the two are nearly allied. 



The typical specimens ai-e about half the bulk of those of L. 

 pe.rspicillatus^ measuring fortj^-seven inches in length. The 

 muzzle is neither elongate nor \Qvy short, and is well marked ofi" 

 from the front, which rises more abruptl}^ and is moi-e convex 

 than in the larger animal. The dorsal fin is longer than high, 

 and the anterior border becomes horizontal above, so that the 

 apex is directed posteriorly. The post-dorsal region is strongly 

 compressed, and maintains its width more nearly to the base of 

 the flukes, making a more abrupt contraction than in L. jyerspi- 

 cillattis. 



The description of the coloration of the L. perspicillatus applies 

 to that of L.bombifrojts with the following important exceptions: 

 The white of the belly extends upwards to the dorsal coloration, 

 entirely excluding the lead color so prominent in the L. perspi- 

 cillatus. The black bar, whicli extends forwards from the flukes, 

 reaches to below the posterior base of the dorsal fin, and extends 

 also to the belly at its base, neither of which characters is ob- 

 served in L. perspicillatus. 



The measurements of this species are as follows : — 



Inches. 



Total length 47 



Length to the eye 6 



Length to posterior basis of pectoral fin 11 



Length to anterior basis of dorsal fin IB 



Depth of caudal peduncle just anterior to the contraction . . 5 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES Or PHILADELPHIA. 139 



It is not necessary to compare this species with the L. ocutus 

 and L. leucopleurus^ since, in those respects in which it differs 

 from L. perspicillatus^ it is the more wide!}' distinct from them. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



Plate III. Fig. I. Grampus griseus. 



Figs. 2 and 3. Heads of two individuals. 

 Plate IV. Lageuorhynchus perspicillatus. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



July 4. 



The President, Dr. Rusghenberger, in tlie chair. 

 Seven members present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a New Species of JSgiale, and 

 Notes on some other Species of Xorth American Lepidoptera," 

 b}' Herman Strecker, was presented for publication. 



July 11. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 



July 18. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



HaUoysite from Indiana. — Mr. E. Goldsmith remarked that a 

 considerable deposit of a cla^'-like mineral has been observed 

 near Huron, Lawrence Count}', Indiana. He had been informed 

 that the deposit is nine feet thick; this, however, seems to be 

 exaggerated, since Prof. E. T. Cox, in the 6th Annual Report of 

 the Geological Survey of Indiana, makes it but four to six feet. 

 It occurs in the cai-boniferous formation, 103 feet below the sur- 

 face. Its roof is the millstone grit.' The floor is reported to be 

 iron ore four feet thick. In regard to the breadth and length 

 nothing seems known. In the Main Exhibition Building, also in 

 the Mineral Annex of the International Centennial Exhibition, an 

 expose of this fine porcelain ore is made. Having been informed 

 that Prof. Cox had called it Indianite, he had made an investiga- 

 tion of its physical and chemical properties before seeing any 

 notice of the mineral in print. 



Tlie substance is amorphous ; fracture subconchoidal ; thick 

 pieces are perfectly opaque; on the edges some light passes 

 through; it is, therefore, subtranslucent, but the material be- 

 comes transparent if lying in water, of wliich it absorbs much. 

 At the same time it cracks into small sharp-edged fragments. 

 These, when taken out of the water and dried, lose the transpa- 

 rency', and become subtranslucent again. Lustre wax}', in some 



' The stratification is illustrated by a diagram in the same volume. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



places dull ; the lustre increases if the substance is rubbed with a 

 smooth harder material. He had noticed irregular cracks which 

 traverse the specimens. Streak colorless; its cohesion is weak; 

 H=2.5; S.G. = 2.16. It is odorless, and adheres somewhat to 

 the tongue. Color, white. The blowpipe reactions indicated the 

 presence of water, alumina, and silica, and nothing else could be 

 detected in the qualitatiA'e analysis in the wet way. 



The " air-dry" substance, having been very finely pulverized, 

 was heated in a platinum crucible at a white heat over a Bunsen- 

 burner until two consecutive weighings were equal. It lost, 

 thus treated, 24.15 per cent, of water. Through the above-de- 

 scribed properties, it is eas}' to determine the name of the 

 species, for Pholerite contains 15 per cent, of water ; Kaolinite 

 about 13 per cent.; Halloj-site about 26 per cent.; and Samoite 30 

 per cent. The species is Halloj'^site ; but, in order to be positive as 

 regards the ratios of the other elements, he had requested Mr. W. 

 H. Dougherty to make the quantitative determinations of the con- 

 stituents. This analyst found, by experiment, that boiling sulphu- 

 ric acid is the best decomposer of this mineral, and having worked 

 repeatedh' with other decomposers without satisfactory results, 

 the sulphuric acid plan was adopted. The samples analyzed were 

 "air-dry," the normal condition of the mineral in nature. 



The result of the quantitative analysis is as follows; — 



Silica . . . 38.30 per cent., which contains 20.425 per cent, of oxygen. 

 Alumina . . 35.20 " " " 16.408 " " 



Water . . . 25.74 " " " 23.880 " " 



The oxygen ratios of the three oxides — 

 Si : 11 : H = 4 : 3 : 4 

 nearlj', which affords the formula — 



11 Si^ -f 4H. 

 This formulated expression requires — 



gi = 40.6 per cent. ; 11 = 34.9 per cent. ; H = 24.4 per cent. 



In the list of analyses of Halloj^site, reprinted in Dana's De- 

 scriptive Mineralogy, we find thnt the amount of water observed 

 by the authors varies between 16 per cent, and 26 per cent., the 

 former number having been obtained on drying the substance at 

 100° C. prior to the determination of the water. That Mr. 

 Dougherty found more water than he had obtained is due to the 

 fact that the former gentleman used the blast for removing the 

 water. 



Prof. E. T. Cox states in his report that this mineral had been 

 analyzed by J. Lawrence Smith, 5l.D., with this result : — 



Si = 45.90 per cent. ; 11 = 40.34 per cent. ; fl = 13.26 per cent. ; 



which is the composition of Kaolinite; but how this analysis had 

 been performed, and especiall3' why oul}^ 13.20 per cent, of 11 had 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T6. 



been obtained, the reader is left uninformed. He presumed that the 

 mineral sample must have been prepared previous to ignition, or, 

 in other words, the sample was dried strongly, and no account 

 taken of the loss sustained. Under such conditions the quantity 

 of H is less, whilst the other constituents become more. 



The reason why this mineral is a new species, and not Kaoli- 

 nite, Prof. E. T. Cox endeavors to explain in this wa,y : " Kaolin 

 is entirely derived from feldspar and feldspatic rocks, such as 

 granite and porphyry-, etc. ; but the porcelain clay of Lawrence 

 County has resulted from the decomposition, b}^ chemical water, 

 of a bed of limestone and the mutual interchange of molecules in 

 solution, brought about b}^ chemical precipitation and affinity." 



The proofs, however, have been omitted, and, tlierefore, the 

 view cannot be accepted, since Bischof (in his Chemische Geology, 

 B. II., p. 428) has shown that the various clays are derived from 

 the decomposition of feldspar. 



Retardation of Bloom in an Herbaceous Plant. — Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan made note of a plant of Senecio Jacobaea, which in his 

 garden did not bloom till fifteen years old, in this respect some- 

 what rivalling the Centur}^ plant. Agave Mexicana^ which some- 

 times flowered at that age. 



Mr. Martindale reported the Senecio as being found among the 

 ballast plants at Kaighn's Point, and had seen plants at least two 

 years old tliat had not bloomed. 



Cross Fertilization in Campanula. — Mr. Meehan remarked 

 that when the subject of insect cross-fertilization was before the 

 Academy a few evenings since, he admitted that some plants 

 seemed to require the aid of insects, and he had conceded Cam- 

 panula as being of this small list of exceptions. Since then, 

 having had reason to suspect this conclusion, he had confined 

 flowers of C.pulcherrima in fine gauze bags, and they had seeded 

 perfectl3% He had no hesitation in saying that those who had 

 claimed Campanula as illustrating the necessity for cros.s-fertili- 

 zation by insect agency were wrong. He admitted that it was 

 difficult to understand from the structure alone how self-fertiliza- 

 tion was effected, but that it was so eff"ected w'as certain, and care- 

 ful study would no doubt explain it Composites were claimed 

 as proving cross-fertilization — it might explain the Campanula 

 case to note how self-fertilization in chicory was effected. He 

 had recently been able to discover this. The chicory has blue 

 pistils as well as blue corollas, and as the rather large pollen 

 grains are of a pure white, they aff"ord an excellent chance for ob- 

 servation. The whole growth and fertilization is over in about a 

 couple of hours, so that one need not spend much time in the 

 stud^'. About 6 o'clock in the morning the pistil with tiie closed 

 lobes elongates, pushing througli the mass of pollen, and carry- 

 ing quantities witii it, all over its whole surface. About an hour 

 after, the lobes expand, and the pollen fulls into the cleft and on 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 143 



to the stigmatic surface. The flowers close entirely by nine or 

 ten o'clock of the same da,y, the work of fertilization being wholly 

 finished. Pollen-eating insects visit the flowers, but these can be 

 kept away during the few hours of observation required, and it 

 would be found that all the flowers had pollen on the stigmatic 

 surfaces nevertheless. 



Variation in the Sensitive Fern^ Onoclea seusibilis. — Heferriug 

 to some specimens on the table presented b}-^ Mr. Martindale, Mr. 

 Meehan remarked that it was the variety 0. s. obtusilobata of 

 Gray's Manual, and atiorded morphologisis a rare and excellent 

 opportunity to studj^ the transitional stages by which the male 

 became the fertile frond. 



The resignation of Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., as Curator, was read 

 and accepted, and the following minute ordered to be recorded : — 



The Academy, in accepting the resignation of Mr. Tr^'on as 

 Curator, desires to express its gratitude for the services he has 

 long and faithfullj' rendered, and its sincere regret that he is una- 

 ble to continue his official relations in the position which he has 

 so efficiently filled. 



July 25. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" Report on the Hydroids collected on the Coast of Alaska and 

 the Aleutian Islands b}' Wm. H. Dall, U. S. Coast Survey and party, 

 from 1871 to 1874 inclusive." By S. F. Clarke. With an Intro- 

 duction by W. H. Dall. 



"Description of a Collection of Fossils made bj'' Dr. Raimondi 

 in Peru." By Wm. M. Gabb. 



" The Rocks known as Mexican On^x." By Mariano Barcena. 



Supernumerary Anterior Extremity in a Brahmin Bull. — Dr. 

 Allen pi'esented drawings of a supernumerary anterior extremity 

 in a Brahmin bull recently on exhil)ition in Philadelphia. 



The deformation consists of a limb exserted Irom the body at 

 the left shoulder. The extremity is apparenth' complete, possess- 

 ing the shoulder, leg, and remaining portions of the limb. 



The foot presents its palmar aspect forwards, and bears three 

 distinct digits. Tlie hoof u[)on each digit is long, compressed 

 laterally, and slightly curved from l)efore backwards. The cen- 

 tral digit is the broadest, is slightl3- longer than either of the 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



others, and presents a shallow groove upon its convex surface at 

 its base. 



Fi.?. 1. 



Fis. 2. 



At the surface answering to posterior aspect of carpus of a 

 normal foot (but here in front) are two symmetrical corneous 

 embossements, which may be compared to " elects." The position 

 of the limb, with its palmar face directed forwards, may be due 

 to erratic rotation of the parts in embryo. Dissection would be 

 essential to determine this point. 



On a New Genus of Camelidae — Prof. Cope remarked that the 

 dental formula of ProcameJus is I. ^ ; C. | ; Pm.|; M. |. The 

 number of teeth of the superior series anterior to the true molars 

 being left uncertain by Dr. Leidy, he, Prof. Cope, was able to com- 

 plete our knowledge of it after an examination of Colorado speci- 

 mens. He ascribed three superior incisors to this genus at that 

 time, as they are possessed by the species which he named Proca- 

 melus heterodontus. Having obtained in New Mexico the nearly 

 entire cranium of the P. occidentalism he found that the single lateral 

 incisor in the existing Camelidae is the only one that can be i^ro- 

 perly assigned to this genus. In this specimen, it is true, a small 

 alveolus on one side contains a small crown of a second incisor; 

 but on the opposite side the corresponding one is shallow and 

 empty. As the last molar it not fully protruded, it would appear 

 that this incisor is a temporary tooth, being shed before tlie ma- 

 turity of the animal. It thus differs from the existing camels 

 only in the longer persistence of these transitory incisors. The 




1876.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



145 



position of the first incisor in the specimen in question is marked 

 by a roughness of the surface which indicates the still earlier 

 shedding of a tooth, and filling up of the alveolus. In the P. he- 

 terodonfus, of which the superior dentition of an adult was in his 

 possession, the alveoli of the three superior incisors are large and 

 deep, showing that the dental formula is, 1. 1 ; C. | ; Pm. | ; M. |. 

 The alveoli are empty in the specimen, but this is doubtless due 

 to their regular funnel shape, which gives little hold for the conic, 

 though elongate fangs. This animal, then, represents a genus 

 distinct from Procamelus^ defined b}'' the dental formula just 

 given, for which he proposed the name of Protolahis. The tj'pical 

 and only known species is Protolahis heterodontus^ Cope, from the 

 Loup Fork beds of Northeast Colorado. 



A new species of Procamelus was described under the name of 



Procamelus fissidens, Cope? P. occidentalism " Leidy." 



Cope, Annual Report U. S. Geol. Survey Territories, 1873, p. 531. 



This species is distinguished by the shortening of the series of 

 true molar teeth as compared with the premolars, for while the 

 second, third, and fourth premolars are similar in dimensions to 

 those of the P. occidentalism the true molars are considerably 

 smaller. The crowns of the latter are stout, and not narrowed 

 nor furnished with an antero-external ridge as in P. angusfideiis, 

 and the anterior external crescent projects free posteriorly an 

 oblique angular rib on the external face of the crown, being sepa- 

 rated from the second crescent b^- a deep fissure. The last infe- 

 rior molar is not very elongate, and the fifth lobe a crescentic 

 section, i. e., is concave on the external face, as in the P. angiis 

 tidens. 



The inferior border of the ramus is straight from the first true 

 molar posteriorly. The anterior face of the coronoid process is 

 oblique outwards. The G(\ge of the masseteric insertion forms a 

 low ridge concentric with the convex posterior border of the jaw ; 

 like the inner face of the same portion of the jaw, the surface 

 is flat. 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1S76. 



One ramus neai'l}' entire, and the molars of the other (except- 

 ing tlie last) were obtained near the Pawnee Buttes of X. E. 

 Colorado. 



The evolution of the existing tj'pes of Camelida" is a good illus- 

 tration of the operation of the laws of acceleration and retarda- 

 tion. In evidence of this we ma}' follow the growth of the foot, 

 and dentition of the most specialized, and therefore the terminal 

 genus of the series, the American Auchenia. It is well known 

 that the animals of this genus, in common with other ruminants, 

 have the constituent metapodials of the cannon bone distinct 

 during a longer or shorter portion of foetal life. As these ele- 

 ments are permanentl}' distinct in the oldest or Miocene genus 

 Po'ebrotherium^ it is evident that acceleration of tlie process of 

 ossification has caused their union at successively earl}' periods 

 in the genera of later ages. This is indicated b}- the long dura- 

 tion of tlieir separation in the Loup Fork genus Pi^ocamelus. It 

 is also well known since the time of Goodsir, that the embrj'os of 

 ruminants exhibit a series of superior incisor teeth, which disap- 

 pear early. It is probable, but not certain, that in the Miocene 

 genus PoUbrotherium^ as in various conteraporarj^ selenodont 

 Artiodactyla^ that the superior incisors persisted. He had, how- 

 ever, discovered that these teeth persisted in the Loup Fork 

 genus Pi^otolabis during adult life. He had also found that one, 

 the second of these teeth in Procamelus occidentalism persisted 

 without being protruded from the alveolus until nearly adult age. 

 In genera {e. g., the bunodont Artiodactyla) where the incisors are 

 normall}' developed, they appear at about the same time with the 

 other teeth, and continue to develop to functional completeness. 

 This development is retarded in Protolabis, since they are not so 

 matui'ed as to remain fixed throughout life in their alveoli. In 

 Procamelus the retardation is still greater, since tlie first incisor 

 reaches very small dimensions, and is, with its alveolus, early 

 removed, while the second incisor only grows large enough and 

 for a sufficient time to occup}- a shallow alveolus, without extend- 

 ing beyond it. In the first incisor the process of retardation has 

 reached its necessarj- termination, i.e., atrophy' or extinction; 

 while in the existing Camelidse the second incisor also has dis- 

 appeared in the same way. In ruminants other than Camelidse^ 

 the third or external incisor has undergone the same i)rocess; 

 while, in the Bovidae, the canines also have been retarded in de- 

 velopment, down to atrophy. 



In the genus Auchenia, as has been pointed out, the premolar 

 teeth are two in number; in Poebrotheriiun of the lower .Miocene, 

 they number four, the first and second of the normal mammalian 

 series being present. The first premolar is present in Poebrothe- 

 riiun, Protolabis, Procamelaa, Pliauchenia, and Camelus; it is 



' See Proceedings Academy, Philadelphia, 1876, p. 17, for an cxplana- 

 tiou of these terms. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



wanting in J i^c7?f?»m and other Ruminantia. In the latter it is 

 present in the fcetus, but soon disappears; in ^«c/?e?ria, accord- 

 ing to Owen, it is retained for a somewhat longer time.' Thus 

 retardation of the growth of this tootli is first seen in the latter 

 genus so far as known, and is more pronounced in the other 

 Ruminantia. The second premolar is present in Poebrotherium, 

 Protolahis^ and Procanielus; it is absent in Pliauchenia, Came- 

 Zi/s, and Auvhenia. In the last two genera it is a transitional 

 character of immaturity, and we ma_y infer that this is also the 

 case with Pliauchenia. It is thus evident that retardation in the 

 supply of nutritive material to this tooth has caused its reduced 

 size, and terminated tlie duration of its existence. This has not 

 occurred in the other lines of Ruminantia, wliere it remains as in 

 Poebrotherium. From these and many analogous cases, the 

 general law ma^' be deduced, that identical modifications of struc- 

 ture, constituting evolution of types, have supervened on distinct 

 lines of descent. 



E. 0. Thompson and A. E. Foote, M.D., w-ere elected members. 



Dom Pedro II., Emperor of Brazil ; Capt. Liiiz de Saldanha da 

 Gama, of the Brazilian Xavj', and Dr. Jose de Saldanha da Gama, 

 of Rio Janeiro, Brazil, were elected correspondents. 



The following paper was ordered to be published : — 



' Odoutography, p. o30. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876- 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF ^GIALE AND NOTES ON SOME 

 OTHER SPECIES OF NORTH AMERICAN LEPIDOPTERA. 



BY HERMAN STRECKER. 



^giale Cofaqui, nov. sp. 



9 . 2^ inches in expanse. Head dark brown ; palpi wliitisU ; 

 thorax brown, mixed with hoary, posterior half, above, clothed 

 with yellowish hair ; abdomen brown; antennae black above, white 

 beneath, terminations black. 



Upper surface of wings blackish-brown. Primaries with an ex- 

 ceedingly irregular, bright, deep yellow band, extending from vein 

 1 to the subcostal nervure ; the outer edge of this band is rather 

 regular from veins 1 to 4, though further removed from the exte- 

 rior margin at the latter than at the former ; from veins 1 to 2 it 

 is narrow, from veins 2 to 4 it is nearly three times as broad ex- 

 tending to where vein 3 joins the m.edian vein, the balance of it is 

 within the discoidal cell and is narrow, of about the same width 

 as it is between veins 1 and 2 ; the portion of this nearest the costa 

 is paler in color than the rest. Between veins 4 and 6, exterior 

 to this band, is a mark composed of two small almost connected 

 yellow spots. Interior to these, between veins 6 and 9, is a narrow 

 yellowish-white mark. Midway between the inner edge of the 

 large yellow band and the base of wing, and between veins 1 and 

 2, nearest to the latter, is a roundish yellow spot. Inner half of 

 base covered with rich yellow hair. Fringe yellowish-white, alter- 

 nated with dark brown at terminations of veins. 



Secondaries. Basal third, especially in inner part, heavily 

 clotlied with rich yellow hair and scales. A band of four yellow 

 spots, separated only by the veins, cross the wing beyond the 

 middle; from this band towards the costa, opposite the apex, is 

 another quite small yellow spot, which is succeeded by a larger 

 one near to the costa, nearly midway between the apex and base 

 of wing. Outer margin between the veins yellow, forming patches 

 more or less triangular, with the points inwards. Fringe yellow- 

 ish-white. 



Under surface. Primaries brown, not as dark as above, and 

 shaded at outer margin and apex with lioary; no yellow at base 

 of wings. Markings as above, excepting that the yellow band is 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



continued from its lower end to, and connected with, the yellow 

 spot between it and the base, and between veins 1 and 2. 



Secondaries. Hoary or whitish-gray, dark-brown along costa, 

 especially towards the base. Towards anal angle, a pure wliite 

 spot, corresponding in position with the first of the series of four 

 that compose the yellow band of upper side; each of the remain- 

 ing 3'ellow spots of upper surface, and the next one of the two, 

 between them and the costa, is represented by a small dark-brown 

 spot, or rather row of continuous spots ; the last towards costa is 

 replaced by one of pure white; halfway between this latter spot 

 and the base is another white spot, and also one in discoidal cell, 

 from which a dark-brown line extends to near abdominal margin. 

 Fi inges white and brown. 



In markings of upper surface, this species resembles somewhat 

 closel}' the lowermost of Boisduval's figures on plate 70, in tlie 

 Lep. Am. Sept., but the outline of the Avings is entirely- different. 

 In the present species the primaries are much produced at veins 

 2 and 3, and from veins 3 to 7 they are hollowed, making the wing- 

 most decidedl}' fulcate, though the apex is A-ery slightly rounded. 

 The inferiors are narrow, even between the apex and abdominal 

 angle, and the wing at the former is not rounded, but the costa 

 and exterior margins meet at almost a right angle. As far as 

 outline goes this species has no possible resemblance to Boisdu- 

 val's figures, or to the species he purports to represent, the history 

 of which has been given in full detail by Prof. Riley, in Trans. St. 

 Louis Acad. Sc. That species, ^. yuccae, has much longer and 

 comparatively narrower fore wings, and the shape of exterior mar- 

 gin of these is just the reverse of the present described species, the 

 hind wings are also as entirely different in sliape as can be in two 

 insects genericallj' the same. The under surface of inferiors in 

 yuccde is brown, broadly bordered with whitish-gray, especially at 

 the costa, and with a large triangular white spot below costal vein 

 about one-third the distance (from base), between base and apex. 

 The present species has under surface of secondaries graj'ish, with 

 dark-brown costa, and four conspicuous white spots on various 

 parts of the wing. Boisduval's lower figure may have been intended 

 to represent this insect, but his upper two figures show the upper 

 and under surface of yuccse^ though none are correct as regards 

 shape of wings, especially of the inferiors. All three figures on 

 his plate were either drawn from three diflerent examples, or the 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187S. 



artist was most ciilpabl}' careless, as none are of same size, or 

 agree in outline, though the presumption would naturally be, that 

 the middle figure with wings erect, was intended to represent the 

 under surface of one of the others. What leads me further to sup- 

 pose that two species are figured on Boisduval's plate, is that the 

 lowermost figure has the small spot on inner half of primaries, of 

 which Prof. Riley says, that of the ten specimens o^ yuccaehe had 

 examined, "none of them have the spot on primaries, indicated in 

 one of Boisduval's figures, just within the middle of the wing and 

 below vein 2." 



I have placed this insect in ^giale, where, with yuccas^ I think 

 it belongs; Scudder's Megathymus I consider but a synonym of 

 Felder's genus. 



The example from which the foregoing description was made 

 was captured in Georgia. 

 Papilio Indra, Reakirt. ?.' 



Same size as %. Primaries somewhat falcate, broader and less 

 produced apicallj'. Secondaries more rounded exteriorly; the 

 rudimentar3' tail even less conspicuous than in the other sex; 

 macular bands on all wings nearly twice the bi-eadth, on seconda- 

 ries covering part of the discoidal cell. The discal bar of prima- 

 ries better defined, and at two lines distance inwardly succeeded 

 by another parallel bai', which on the under surface is widened into 

 an ovate spot. In other particulars same as % . 



Two 9 examples taken by Mr. Duncan Putnam, July 1st, 1812, 

 in Clear Creek Caiion, between Golden Citj'- and the Forks of the 

 Creek, Colorado. 



The example above described, through the courtesy of Mr. Put- 

 nam, has passed into my keeping, the other, which is still in tliat 

 gentlemen's collection, differs mainly in the mesial band of secon- 

 daries being entirel}^ exterior to tlie discoidal cell. 



These are the only females that I have yet heard of, and no 

 males were seen by Mr. Putnam, nor have anj^ been taken, to m3' 

 knowledge, since the original types, captured b^- Mr. Ridings in 

 1864, on Pike's Peak, Colorado. 



' % described in Proc. Ent. Soc, Phil. YI. p. 123 (18G6), and figured by 

 myself in T. II. Lep. Kliop. ct Ilet. 




ISTfi.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



Cossus nanus, nov. sp. 



Expands 1^ inches. Has the nppearance of a miniature Cossus 

 ligniperda, is gray, of lightev and davlvcr sliades, and reticulated 

 with blaclv lines wliich are most noticeable across the dislv and on 

 the terminal part of wing. Secondaries uniform grayish. Beneath 

 grayish, faintly reticulated. 



Hab. Colorado. 

 Arctia cervinoides, nov. sp. 



Expands f inch. Head black, white above the ej^es. Collar 

 white, with two black bars. Thorax white, with three black bands 

 as in Nais, and others. Abdomen black above ; at sides and be- 

 neath, each segment is broadl}' edged with white. 



Upper surface. Primaries white, marked with black almost 

 exactly as in PlnjUira^ Drury. Secondaries with obscured grayish, 

 ill-defined marks almost semi-diaphanous, resembling those of 

 Quenselii, Payk. 



TTuder surface marked as above, but paler on primaries. 



Entirel}' distinct from all known North American species, nearer 

 to Quenselii, from Labr , and Ceruini^ Fall., from summit of Alps, 

 than any others I wot of. It is from Colorado. 



Cymatophora magnifica, nov. sp. 



%. Expands 1^ inches. Head and collar chestnnt-brown; an- 

 tennae pectinated and brownish ; thorax ashen-white, with a few 

 scattered brown atoms ; abdomen brown ; legs clothed heavily 

 with whitish-gray hair. 



Upper surface. Primaries lustrous brownish-gray or ashen; the 

 outer space, forming a large oval spot extending from apex to 

 inner angle, is brownish-3'ellow of a somewhat golden tint; this 

 space, as well as the whole upper wing, reminds one strongly of 

 Phalera Bucephala, Lin.; on the outer edge of this terminal space, 

 midway between the apex and inner angle, is a parallelogramic 

 brown spot; the inner margin also of this terminal space is edged 

 irregularly with brown marks; the part of the wing adjoining this 

 is paler than the rest ; at base of wing is also a pale patch same 

 color as thorax ; the whole surface of wing, except the yellow ter- 

 minal space, is more or less reticulated or flecked with dark brown ; 

 none of these reticulations are very conspicuous, except a few 

 which form an abbreviated slight transverse band, which extends 

 neither to costa nor inner margin, and is distant from thorax about 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



one-third of the length of the wing. Secondaries brown, with 

 paler fringes ; they are remarkably produced at the outer angle. 



Under surface brown, with indistinct reticulations ; the square 

 mark on outer margin, midway between apex and inner angle, is 

 repeated. 



Hah. Florida, captured by Mr. J. Doll. 



It is doubtful if this is by any means a true Cj^matophora, though 

 it undoubtedly belongs to the Cymatophoridoe, HS.; the pectinated 

 antennae would seem to indicate a position near the insect described 

 as Dicopis muralis, Grote, but there is plenty of room for an}' one 

 who has the inclination to make a new genus for its reception. 

 For my part, I would take infinite]}'' more pleasure in doing away 

 with many of the genera erected of late on trifling grounds, than 

 in adding to the confusion b}' creating new ones. 



Cosmia perophoroides, nov. sp. 



Expands If inches. Head and thorax pale brownish, insensibly 

 fading into yellowish-white as it nears the abdomen, which latter 

 is also yellowish-wdiite ; tarsi dull crimson. 



Upper surface. Primaries, same yellowish or tawny-white as in 

 the Bombycid Perophora Melsheimerii, which the whole insect 

 superficially resembles in color and ornamentation; the costa, outer 

 and inner margins, edged with a dull crimson line; the whole 

 surface of wing powdered with minute crimson scales ; a narrow 

 crimson transverse anterior line, elbowed outwards almost at a 

 right angle in its middle, crosses the wing from costa to inner 

 margin, as also does a transverse posterior line of same color ; this 

 latter is rather straight, making but a slight curve a short distance 

 from the costa. Secondaries white, powdered, not heavily, with 

 red at outer margin; fringes white. 



Under surface. Primaries, basal third, white, rest reddish, paler 

 towards outer margin, which is edged with a narrow red line, as 

 is also costa and inner margin. Secondaries white, bordered Avith 

 a few minute red scales on costa and at apex. 



Taken in Florida by Mr. J. Doll. 

 Phrygionis argentistriata, nov. sp. ' 



Expands 1| inches. Much the same silky gray or dove-color 

 as in P. cultaria, Geyer, to which it is closely allied; but dillers 

 in the gray being a little more inclined to brownish, less bluish, 

 in the inner edge of band that crosses all wings being ver^' much 




18*76.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



less silvered, and in veins of hind wings being j'ellow, narrowly 

 edged with black, from inner edge of this band to past the middle 

 of wing, the yellowish veins being continued or shot off from the 

 yellow of cross band ; the sub-basal band of primaries is irregular 

 and strongly elbowed in middle; whilst in cultaria it is straight 

 from inner margin to costa. Near the angle produced at middle 

 of exterior margin of secondaries, is a rather large oblong dark 

 red spot, tipped at its outer end with silver; near this, on side 

 towards abdominal margin, is a smaller triangular spot of same 

 color, also with a little silver at outer end ; between this and anal 

 angle are two more spots of red and silver, but quite small. The 

 band common to both wings is not nearlj^ so strongly elbowed 

 outwardly in its middle as it is in cultaria, and the space between 

 this band and outer edge of secondaries in that, is not nearly- so 

 broad as in the species at present described. 



Florida, from Mr. J. Doll. 



Euclea paenulata, Clemens, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 159 

 (1860), is the insect latelj' redescribed under the name of Parasa 

 incisa by Dr. Leon Harvey in Can. Ent., p. 5, vol. viii, 18*76. His 

 type he received from Belfrage in Texas, who also sent me exam- 

 ples of it, which, as above stated, turned out to be Clemens' species. 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



August 1. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twentj^-four members present. 



Diurnal Motion in Liatris jjyc7iostac7iya. — Mr. Meehan called 

 attention to a peculiar diurnal motion he had observed in Liatris 

 pycnostachya. When throwing up its flower stems the top was 

 always curved over towards the east in the early morning, nearly 

 erect at midday, and towards the west at sundow^n. For commer- 

 cial purposes he had thousands of plants growing, and the habit 

 was uniform in all. The motion was evidently vertical, and not 

 in a horizontal direction, and this still left it open to ascertain 

 how the point turned towards the east for its early morning start. 

 As soon as the flower spike approached its full growth the motion 

 ceases. 



Fasciated Branches. — In reference to a broadl}^ flattened branch 

 of a sweet potato on the table, to which attention had been di- 

 rected b}^ a member, Mr. Meehan said these branches were found 

 on numerous plants, and there was no reason why all plants may 

 not be found to produce them. They were species of fasciations, 

 which took diflferent forms at times. In trees they often appeared 

 as " crow's nests." The old theory referred them to over-lux- 

 uriousness; but in a paper published in the Troy Proceedings of 

 the American Association it was shown to be just the reverse. In 

 union there is strength, in vegetable as in other bodies. Any 

 tendency to a multiplicity of small branches on a tree instead of 

 making a few large ones, all other things being equal, is an evi- 

 dence of lower vitality. And tliis was proved by these fasciations. 

 In severe winters fasciated branches were the first to die. Often 

 they were the only branches that were destroyed. 



Again, it had been shown in his papers before the American As- 

 sociation and before the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 l^liia, that only when a flowering portion of a plant was in the 

 best conditions to maintain its hold on life, in otlier words in the 

 highest conditions of vitality, did it produce pistils, or female 

 flowers. With a lowered or depreciated vitality the male organs 

 of the flower or male conditions were favored, and it was a singular 

 fact that whenever these fasciations flowered, tlie female organs 

 were nearly always abortive, and stamens and petals increased at 

 their expense. These were some of the facts which had proved 

 the old notion that over-luxuriousncss, in the sense of iiigh vital 

 power, had notliing to do with fasciations, but rather the reverse. 



The final cause of this defective vitality was imi)erfect nutri- 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



tion in that immediate part. This was as near to tlie full expla- 

 nation as science could get as yet. 



The facts were not as new as he liked to bring before the 

 Academy, devoted as it is to original research; but the conclu- 

 sions of the Troy paper are rather recent, and not yet well known, 

 and this might excuse his remarks. 



Mineralogical Notes — Dr. George A. Kcenig spoke about the 

 coloring matter of the amazon stone from Pike's Peak. This 

 beautiful mineral has lately been obtained in large specimens and 

 in considerable quantity through the exertions of Dr. Foote, who 

 furnished the author with the material for this investigation. 

 The color of the amazon stone from Pike's Peak varies betvveen a 

 light bluish-green and a dark emerald-green. On man^^ specimens 

 the faces of modification, as prisms and domes, are without color, 

 or yellowish, or flesh-colored. The interior of very large crystals 

 is likewise of a much lighter color generally than the outside. 



Assuming the coloring principle to be a compound of iron, the 

 following experiments were made to test the value of this hypo- 

 thesis : — 



1. Fragments were exposed to the action of boiling hydro- 

 chloric acid and aqua regia for several da^'s, until the liquid was 

 free from iron. Under this treatment the intensity of color was 

 increased, the coloring substance withstands, therefore, the action 

 of the above agents. 



2. Fragments, prepared by the treatment described, were placed 

 in a glass tube, and hydrogen passed through the latter at a red 

 heat. After cooling, the mineral was found possessed of an evenly 

 spread gray cola?-. 



3. The same pieces were now treated with oxygen at a red 

 heat, and exhibited, after cooling, an even 7^ose color, the intensity 

 of which was proportional to the intensity of the green. 



4. Green fragments were heated in an atmosphere of dry chlo- 

 rine, at increasing temperatures. No change occurred until at a 

 red heat, when the mineral became perfectly white, and a slight 

 sublimation of ferric chloride was noticed. 



5. The rose-colored pieces become white when boiled in strong 

 hydrochloric acid. 



6. Thin fragments do not show at any place a concentration of 

 the green color, when examined under the microscope. 



7. Heated in the outer flame of a Bunsen burner, the same efl^ect 

 is caused as in the current of oxygen, but with a less brilliant 

 color. 



These experiments prove — 



JF'h'sf. That the basis of the coloring substance is i7'on. 



Second. That the iron is present as a very stable compound, 

 probabl}' as an organic salt. 



Third. That the coloring substance is not in molecular combi- 

 nation with the feldspar; because, if it were so, the iron could 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18T6. 



not be extracted completel}' b}' hydrochloric acid from a solid 

 piece after oxidation ; but that the color is of later date, aud 

 caused by infiltration into the numberless capillary cleavage fis- 

 sures of the mineral. 



Investigation into the composition of the organic acid is re- 

 served for a future communication. 



Dr. KcENTG also mentioned his discover}'^ of Zircon in the ama- 

 zon stone from Pike's Peak. Dr. Foote had observed brownish 

 spots in the feldspar, with an appai'ent cleavage. The speaker 

 was able to extract complete crj'stals, showing a tetragonal 

 habitus : P -J- oo P oc. The largest crystal measures ^ inch in 

 length by |- inch square. The angle of the pyramidal faces was 

 found 122°, w'hich is near the zircon angle. The prismatic faces 

 are uneven b}' the preponderance of a step-like structure ; there 

 is a prismatic cleavage. Lustre, greasy vitreous; color, dark 

 gra^-ish-brown ; fracture, straight. H = 6.5, spec. gr. =4.065. 

 Every crystal is associated with columbite in well-defined pris- 

 matic needles, which pierce the zircon. The powder has a cinna- 

 mon color. Owing to the deficienc}' of material, only an approxi- 

 mate anal3'sis can be given for the pri sent. 



SiO, =28.00 



MgO= 8.93 



(Fe,03)ZrO, = 60.00 



H.,0 = 3.47 



100.40 



Besides the large percentage of magnesia, there is a very anom- 

 alous behaA'ior in the zirconia. It is easily soluble in oxalic acid, 

 and tlie oxalate dissolves in a \ery small quantity of water, and is 

 not decomposed by boiling in a dilute solution. He had since 

 established the same behavior in the earth from the Cla}'^ Count}', 

 N. C, zircons, and was still engaged in the study of this matter. 



Dr. KoENiG mentioned further the occurrence of earthy harite 

 on the calcite from the city quarries of St. Louis, Mo. 



This mineral is found in very friable clusters between the large 

 crystals of calcite. Color perfectly white. Lender the microscope 

 the powder resolves into transparent prismatic crystals. They 

 are small enough to pass through the meshes of a hair sieve. 

 The analysis gave — 



BaSO, = 98.8 

 Fe.O, = 0.5 

 Ignition = 0.14 



99.44 

 This is one of the purest varieties of barite on record. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15Y 



On Frost-Drift in North Carolina. — Prof. "W. C Kerr re- 

 marked that there are some peculiar features in the surface 

 geology of North Carolina which have not hitherto been accounted 

 for. We have no true glacial drift, or at least none well charac- 

 terized. But besides the ordinarj- quaternar}' gravels which over- 

 lie a large section of the coastward half of the State, there are 

 found, chiefly on the flanks and among the foothills of the Blue 

 Eidge, and over a considerable portion of the Piedmont region, 

 beds of earth and stones which are characterized by a peculiar 

 arrangement of their materials, explicable neither on the theory 

 of their being morainal nor modified drift. Reference was made 

 to the subjec-t in the North Carolina Report of last year, and a 

 theory suggested ; but as illustrations were wanting, it was not 

 practicable to do more, and he should require the blackboard now 

 to make the matter intelligible. He represented, in a diagram, the 

 succession of different arrangements of the detrital materials as 

 they may be seen in descending the slopes on which these accu- 

 mulations are found. All our gold gravels come under this de- 

 scription of quaternar}^ deposit. In one part of the diagram the 

 arrangement which obtains in the higher portions of the deposits, 

 nearest the source of the materials, was represented. The lower 

 part, perhaps one-half or one-third of the vertical depth, is filled 

 with angular and little worn fragments of quartz and other hard 

 rocks ; the upper part being simply unstratified earth. As we 

 descend the slope, the angular blocks have become more rounded, 

 and are accumulated in a successivel}' lower and more crowded 

 stratum, at last hugging closely the surface of the underlying 

 rock. In the case of the auriferous gravels, the gold is found, of 

 course, only on the upper slopes, and near the sources of the ma- 

 terials, its greater specific gravity insuring its speedy descent to 

 the bottom of the moving mass. It is perfectly obvious, both 

 from the position of these beds on the slopes of hills and moun- 

 tains, up to 1500 feet above the sea, and from their arrangement, 

 that they have not been deposited under water. And it is equally 

 evident that the^- are not true glacial drift ; and, indeed, they are 

 readily traced, in many cases, to their sources, distant only a few 

 rods, or even feet. But he had not hit upon the solution of the 

 question of the origin and mode of accumulation of these beds 

 until he had accidentally found in a railroad cut near Morganton, 

 the structure indicated in the second diagram, where a small 

 quartz vein was represented rising up, undisturbed, through the 

 underl3-ing strata of rock, in a nearly* vertical direction, until it 

 reaches the lower surface of the deposit in question, where it is 

 seen to be suddenly interrupted, and its materials — angular frag- 

 ments — strewn along the surface of tlie rock, down the slope a 

 distance of several yards. A close study of this phenomenon at 

 last suggested the theor}- which he had pro})osed of frost drift. 

 It is obvious that in subglacial regions (and in glacial regions in 

 subglacial times) the annual frosts of winter would penetrate to a 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY bF [1876. 



great depth ; and likewise the summer thaws, aided by the enor- 

 mous precipitation which characterized those regions and times. 

 And it is equall)^ obvious that a mass of water-saturated earth, in 

 freezing and thawing, must be subject to the same laws of move- 

 ment as a true glacier, the rate of motion being proportioned to 

 the quantitj' of water. The depth of some of these deposits at 

 first presented a difflcult3', this depth rising in some cases to 

 twenty and even thirtj' feet, although they are for the most part 

 less than half that depth. But after learning that in Vermont, in 

 the winter of 1874-5, the frost penetrated to a depth of eight feet, 

 and that in Siberia and other subarctic regions the ground is 

 annuallj' frozen and thawed to amucii greater depth, there seemed 

 to remain no part of the phenomena presented by these beds 

 which is not satisfactorily accounted for by the theory. 



The occasion of his bringing this subject to the attention of 

 the Acadeni}' was this: In passing an excavation on Market 

 Street, above Forty-Fourth Street, he had observed a new and 

 striking confirmation of the view just presented. In an accumu- 

 lation quite like those alreadj^ described as occurring in North 

 Carolina, this additional feature was observed : several banded 

 seams of decomposed mica schist, standing nearly vertical in the 

 undisturbed rock below, on reaching the lower edge of the drift 

 were bent at a sharp angle, in the direction of the movement of the 

 mass, down the slope, and were traceable many feet, diminishing 

 with a gradual and regular taper in a horizontal direction, until 

 lost in the homogeneous mass of earth which formed the bod}' of 

 the bed, How this happened is obvious enough on the theory 

 given, but on no other known to him. 



August 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twent^'-seven members present. 



On the Diu7'nal Opening of Floioers. — Mr, Thos. Meehan re- 

 ferred to observations he had made this season on the nocturnal 

 and diurnal expansion of flowers, and said that, contrary to the 

 popular impression, it was not probable that light or its absence 

 alone determined the opening of the blossoms. There were some 

 plants, as, for instance, Oenothera biennis^ the evening Primrose; 

 AncKjallU a7'vensis, the "Pimpernel," and others, which remained 

 open or otherwise longer when the weather was liumid or cloudy, 

 and were looked on in consequence as kinds of floral barometers ; 

 but from other facts it was clear that it was not the weather 

 merely, but some other incident accompanying the weather that 

 governed the case. 



For instance, though (Enothera biennis, and other QSnotheras, 




ISTfi.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



opened at evening, and, if the atmosphere be moist, continue open 

 the greater part of next day, many species opened only in the 

 daytime ; and this thej- did regularly, quite regardless of meteoro- 

 logical conditions. (E. serrata of Colorado was one of these. 

 It was regular in opening about noon ; the blossoms were all closed 

 long before sundown. 



In other allied families we saw similar divergence. In the 

 Cactus family, Oj)untia and Ma ynmillaria oyteued onl}- about mid- 

 day; while most of tiie Cereus opened at night. The night- 

 blooming Cactus was a familiar example. But the chief interest 

 was in the fact that many had their special hours of day or night 

 for the expansion. The Portidaca oleracea, common Purslane, 

 opened about eight A. M., and by nine had performed all its 

 functions ; while a closely allied plant, tlie Talinum terefifolium^ 

 from the serpentine rocks of Chester County, opened at one P. M., 

 and was closed by three. The conditions of the weather did not 

 seem to influence them. 



There was the same attention to daily periods in the growth of 

 the parts of plants, as well as in the expansion of the petals. In 

 composite plants the floral growth was generally in the morning, 

 and was usually all over b}' nine or ten o'clock A. M. The 

 elongation and expansion of the corolla was usually completed 

 in an hour after sunrise, but the stamens grew for an hour moi'e, 

 and the pistil continued for still another. There was little if anj^ 

 growth in the floral parts after nine o'clock in a very large por- 

 tion of this order of plants. 



In grasses, Cijjjeracese, and some rushes also, the floral parts 

 were very exact in their time of opening. In the plantains 

 {Plantago) the pistils appeared a day or more in advance of the 

 stamens; and these last appeared at about a regular time in each 

 da}'. In Liizula campestris^ the wood rush, he had by a series 

 of observations timed it exactly. Before nine the antherS were 

 perfect, but by ten the pollen has been all committed to the winds, 

 and only dried membranous matter remained. So far as he could 

 ascertain, meteorological conditions did not influence the time in 

 the least in this case. 



The popular impression of light and moisture as agents in this 

 behavior, had seemed to receive a tacit scientific assent. It was 

 clear, he thought, there was a more powerful agenc}' underlving 

 these; and it was, perhaps, a gain to science to be able to see this, 

 though in so dim a light. 



Dr. Henr}' C. Chapman was elected curator in the place of Mr. 

 Tryon, resigned. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



August 15. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



On Hexagonite^ a New 3IineraL — Mr. E. Goldsmith remarked 

 that Mr. John C. Trautwine, of Philadelphia, had been kind 

 enough to present to him a mineral from near Edwards, St. Law- 

 rence County, X. Y. As it was not comparable with any of the 

 known species that occur in said locality, it was presumed by 

 Mr, T. to be new. 



The mineral is crystallized hexagonally, the forms noticed being 

 the infinite pyramid (110), and the basal plane (111). The crys- 

 tals are small, from about 3 mm. in length and 1 mm. in thickness, 

 although some are 5 mm. thick. Two distinct cleavage planes 

 were observed, which could be easily produced b3" striking the 

 specimen with the hammer. It was found that these planes intei*- 

 sected at 120° ; there is a third cleavage plane parallel to (111), 

 but less smooth than the former. 



Fracture uneven. The small crystals and fragments are trans- 

 parent, while the thicker ones are semi-transparent. 



Lustre subvitreous, somewhat glimmering on the cleavage (110) ; 

 on the basal plane the lustre is dull. 



A basal cleavage fragment was introduced between two Nicol 

 prisms transmitting no light, in such a way that its principal 

 axis formed a continuous line with that of the prism, and, no 

 change in the light being observed, the crj'stal was pronounced 

 uniaxial. The color is pale violet, but not equally distributed ; 

 the nyneral in spots is colorless, and it is thought that if the sub- 

 stance was absolutely pure it would have no color. The coloring 

 principle, which is a small quantity of manganese, is so finely dis- 

 tributed through the mass that it is impossible to separate it 

 mechanically. 



The streak is colorless, and so is a large bulk of the powder. 

 The substance is brittle. 



Its hardness is between apatite and orthoclase ; that is, 5,5, 

 S.G = 3.011, 



If the substance, in the form of a thin splinter, is heated to 

 redness in the Bunsen burner flame, no change is produced ; the 

 same is the case if the oxidizing flame with the blowpipe is di- 

 rected upon it; but a rounding of the sharp edge of the splinter 

 is ert"ected by treating it in the reducing flame; the transparent 

 substance then becomes opaque and white, enamel-like. On 

 moistening this rounded spot with cobalt solution, and strongly 

 reheating, a violet coloration is produced. In the glass tube there 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



is no change whatever. The flame reaction indicates the pres- 

 ence of soda. 



From the above observation he pronounced the mineral to be 

 infusible. 



Fused with microcosmic salt, it shows a skeleton of silica ; and 

 if heated with borax in the oxidizing flame, the reaction of man- 

 ganese is observed ; the same if heated with carbonate of soda in 

 the oxidizing flame. 



On coal heated with cobalt solution a violet mass is produced, 

 which is due to the presence of a small quantity of alumina and a 

 larger of magnesia. 



In regard to its solnbility in acids, it was observed that it 

 3'ielded onh^ to hj'drofluoric acid, the others having no effect. 

 The fine powder was fused with carb. soda, in order to find all the 

 elements contained in it by the processes in qualitative chemical 

 anal3"sis in the wet way; by this means were found silica, alu- 

 mina, and manganese, lime and magnesia. 



The quantitative analysis gave these results : — 



Silica . . . 57.92 per ct. contains oxj-gen 27.91 

 Alumina and| „ oq u 



manganese] 



Lime . . . 11.98 " " " 3.42) 



Magnesia . . 26.23 " " " 10.49 [■ = 14.45 



Soda . . . 2.10 " " " 0.54) 



100.62 



Tlie alumina and manganese amounting to 2.39 per cent, are con- 

 sidered as an impurit}', and for this reason thej' are excluded 

 from the consideration of the ratio. The ox3'gen ratio of the 

 bases and the silica is as 14.45 : 27.91 = 1 : 1.9, or adopting 2 for 

 the latter will give the general expression (E)ijA', in which (ft) 

 stands for the monoxyds (Ca, Mg, Na)- The new mineral species 

 hexagonite is formulated thus : (Ca, Mg, Na) §ij. 



As this described bisilicate is anhj-drous, and is crystallized in 

 hexagonal form, it consequently belongs to the beryl grouj), of 

 which it will be the third species. 



On Opuntia Rafinesquii and 0. vulgaris. — Mr. Martindale 

 remarked that the large natural order of plants, the Cacfaceae^ 

 comprises about 800 species chiefly natives of tropical countries, 

 and the western part of the United States, where man^^ grow to an 

 immense size. The onl\' representative of this large order in the 

 northern United States, east of the Mississippi, is the genus 

 Opxintia. The onl}' species of that genus described in the older 

 works on the flora of that section, is the so-called 0. vuhjaris, 

 " from Massachusetts, southward, mostl}^ near the coast." In the 

 new edition of Gray's Manual, the 0. Missouriensis, a western 

 species having dr}' pricklj^ fruit, is admitted as occun-ing in Wis- 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



cousin, and 0. Bajinesqun, with smooth pnlpy fruit, somewhat like 

 the 0. vulgaris, also in the western section from Wisconsin to 

 Kentucky. Dr. George Engelmann, of St. Louis, in a recent ex- 

 amination of the genus, after comparing specimens from Massa- 

 chusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey', heretofore 

 classed as 0. vulgaris, determines them to be identical with 0. 

 Bafenesquii from the west. In a recent note from him he says, " I 

 have specimens growing here from Massachusetts, New York, 

 Pennsylvania, and New Jersey, and they are all 0. Rafinesquii; 

 the vulgaris I have only from the falls of the Potomac and South 

 Carolina." 



In June last Mr. Martindale collected near Haddonfield, N. J,, 

 some specimens of Ojyunfia in flower, which on examination, and 

 comparison with the species as figured in the fourth volume of the 

 Pacific Railroad Reports, he had determined to be the 0. vulgaris. 

 In the latter part of Jul}' he again examined the plant, then in full 

 fruit, and his former conclusion was sustained. He also sent a 

 fully developed specimen to Dr. Engelmann, who pronounced it to 

 be the true 0. vuJgains, which he had not before seen north of the 

 falls of the Potomac, and asked if it is a real native in New Jerse3\ 

 On that point he thought there could be no doubt, as the owner of 

 the land, John Gill, inTormed him it had been there to his know- 

 ledge at least twenty-five years ; and while it does not incline to 

 spread an}', shows no signs of disappearing. 



On comparing tliis plant with specimens growing near the coast, 

 and which appears to be the 0. Rafinesquii, the following cha- 

 racters appear. The 0. vulgaris has a pale green appearance, the 

 flat joints obovate, with small ovate subulate leaves, stout and 

 tapering from a broadish base, mostly less than one-fourth of an 

 inch in length, and appressed to the joint, with a fascicle of min- 

 utely barbed bristles, and occasionally a spine in their axils. The 

 flowers are sulphur-yellow; the fruit smoothish, about an inch in 

 length, and half an inch in thickness, somewhat ventricose, or 

 largest just above the middle, and tapering to the base, with a 

 depi'ession at the top where the flower had fallen ofl", from one- 

 eightli to one-quarter of an inch in depth. The 0. Rajinesquii has 

 rather larger flowers, occasionally wnth a reddish centre ; more 

 numerous petals; the fruit fully one and a half inches in length, 

 with an elongated tapering base ; the depression in the top of the 

 specimens examined is rather shallower than in the vulgaris; the 

 older joints have a darker green appearance, the leaves more slen- 

 der, longer, from one-quarter to three-eighths of an inch in length, 

 and spreading, and more frequently with the large spine, particu- 

 larly about the top of the joint. 



He had examined specimens from "Woodbury, New Jerse}'', about 

 twelve miles from the Haddonfield locality, which are 0. Rafine- 

 squii, and which have fusifoim tubers on the extremities of the 

 roots, similar in this respect to a western form of Rajinesquii de- 

 scribed in the Pacific Railroad Reports as 0. fusifo7'mis. He 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



bad not been able to find tubers on the vulgaris, and the published 

 description of that species made no mention of any- 



There is growing in the Meehan nurseries, near Germantown, 

 Pa., a specimen of 0. Rafinesqidi from >^ew Jersey-, which is 

 identical with one from Illinois, also a specimen of 0. vulgaris, 

 from Harper's Ferr}', Virginia, which is identical Avith the one 

 collected near Haddonfield, N. J. These two species are some- 

 what closel}' allied; yet the form and position of the leaves are 

 manifestl}' ditierent, and being earl}' deciduous is possibl}' the 

 cause of their being so long confounded. Certain it is, if the two 

 species as described are distinct, we have both of them in Xew 

 Jersey. 



Supernumerary Anterior Extremity in a Domestic Cow. — Dr. 



Allen exhibited a drawing of a malformation somewhat similar 



to that recorded in the Proceedings of July 25. 



In this instance, however, the digits were reduced to two. 

 These were of unequal size and one onl}- was ter- 

 minnl. The remaining digit was appended to the side 

 of the metacarpus, but was not articulated with it. 

 It was indeed a dwarfed digit held in position to the 

 metacarpus b}' fibrous tissue and integument. When 

 at rest it lay nearly parallel to the main digit. Each 

 digit possessed a well-developed hoof-like covering, 

 the larger mass being curved and compressed from 

 side to "side, while the smaller one was styliform. 



Above the smaller digit was a small conical append- 

 age, which may be considered a localized hypertrophy 



in the normal position of the "cleet." 



August 22. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty members present. 



August 29. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twelve members present. 



A paper entitled " Note on the Discovery of Representatives of 

 Two Orders of Fossils new to the Cretaceous Formation of North 

 America," by Wm. M. Gabb, was presented for publication. 



On the Coal and Iron Resources of Alabama. — Mr. William 

 Gesner remarked that a number of applied and interesting 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



scientific facts had developed themselves in connection with the 

 construction of geological sections in miniature of the Warrior 

 and Cahaba Coal Measures in Alabama for exhibition at the 

 Centennial. The frequent inquiry for information concerning 

 them had induced him to believe that a description of these 

 measures would prove interesting to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences. 



The three coal fields of Alabama, comprising an area exceeding 

 seven thousand square miles, and separated by narrow silurian 

 valleys, are just now being brought into prominent notice by the 

 superior character of the coals and coke they afford, and the 

 economy incidental to the manufacture of iron by their means. 



The valleys which separate these fields being stored with inex- 

 haustible supplies of the best grades of hematite and brown ores, 

 even to that variety' best adapted to the manufacture of ferro- 

 manganese,it seems surprising that both of these resources should 

 have been allowed to lie dormant for such a length of time, while 

 others of less extent, richness, and economy of -working have been 

 given their fullest development. 



It is now ascertained that the coal measures of the Warrior 

 and Cahaba coal fields consist severall}' of 172 and 173 strata, 

 embracing respectively^ forty-six and fiftj'-one coal-seams of all 

 dimensions, from one inch up to six feet six inches in thickness, 

 constituting a grand aggregate of one hundred and eighty-eight 

 feet of bituminous coal. 



In the Warrior field there are many localities where the beds 

 of coal lie horizontal!}', while in the Cahaba they are more fre- 

 quently inclined ; but all of those being worked in either are 

 reached by slope or tunnel. 



Two beds of black band characterize the Warrior measures, one 

 of them showing a richness of 43 per cent, metallic iron ; clay 

 iron-stone is abundant, and is found in all of the coal fields in 

 Alabama. In one instance it constitutes the roof of a twenty- 

 eight-inch bed of coal in the Warrior measures. 



The fossil fauna and flora of these beds are found to be similar. 

 Immediately beneath the mountain limestone of the carboniferous 

 formation in the upper silurian, a bed of fossiliferous hematite 

 occurs as one of its members. It extends in a northeastern 

 direction, a distance exceeding 120 miles, and into the State of 

 Tennessee, where it may be seen outcropping, interstratified with 

 ferruginous limestone seven feet thick, under Mitchell's Point, 

 Walden's Ridge. 



In Jefferson County, Alabama, its thickness is found to be 

 twenty-eight feet, gradually becoming thinner toward its north- 

 eastern prolongation. Wherever it outcrops on the top, from the 

 sides, and in the valleys of Red Mountain, it is noted for affording 

 the most fertile soils. 



It is conceded by all who see and examine this immense bed 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. . 165 



of ore, that it is to become the great base from whence in the 

 future our principal su})plies of iron will be produced. 



In the neiohborhood of from two to three miles east and west 

 of this ore bed lie the coal fields before mentioned. For its entire 

 extent through the State, and immediatel}' under it, lie the lime- 

 stones of the Silurian formation, among which ai'e many of the 

 pui-est and those best adapted for fluxing iron from its ores. 



Geologically, in descending order, next occur the immense beds 

 of brown ore, comprising the varieties manganiferous and fibrous 

 limonite, mamillar}'- and crystallized hematite, belonging to Tal- 

 ladega, Coosa, Cahaba, Roop's and Murphy's valle>'s, from which 

 heretofore nearly all of the Alabama iron has been produced — 

 charcoal being used for fuel. 



At the present time, b}- a practical application of all of these 

 advantages, great progress has been made b}' the Eureka Com- 

 pany, under the able superintendence of Mr. James Thomas. 



After remodelling the plant of the former Red Mountain Iron 

 and Coal Companj'- at Oxnioor Station, on the South and !Xorth 

 Alabama R. R., he has put in hot blast one furnace, on coke pro- 

 duced on the spot by ovens, with attached combustion chambers 

 of his own devising. The ore charges are made to consist of the 

 mixture — three-quarters fossiliferous hematite and one-quarter 

 brown ore, which is yielding from the furnace 56 per cent, good 

 pig metal, costing under twelve dollars per ton in its manufacture. 

 In view of these facts it becomes evident that Alabama will soon 

 attain pre-eminence in the production of iron ; and, as steel super- 

 sedes its use for railroad and all other mechanical appliances (our 

 next great stride in the march of civilization), she must become 

 most populous and prosperous, for her climate is equable and her 

 soils rank among the most fertile. 



Dr. S. H. Linn, of St. Petersburg, Prof. Paul Groth, of Stras- 

 burg, and Dr. James Hector, of Xew Zealand, were elected corre- 

 spondents. 



The following papers were ordered to be published : — 




166 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



THE ROCKS KNOWN AS MEXICAN ONYX. 

 BY MARIANO BARCENA. 



T have the honor to present before this Academ}^ a report upon 

 the calcareous rocks of Mexico, which so deservingl^' are occupy- 

 ing the attention of the public in the present International Exhi- 

 bition. 



These rocks are known in Mexico by the names of "Tecalli," 

 " Mexican Onyx," and " Mexican Marble." The first of these names 

 refers to the place where they are found, as the principal beds are 

 located in the neighborhood of the town of Tecalli, in the State 

 of Puebla. The word Tecalli is a compound one, and, in m}' judg- 

 ment, is derived from two Aztec words : Tetl (mountain) and Calli 

 (house), the meaning in this case being " House of the Mountain." 

 The origin of the word might be supposed as well to be Teocalli 

 (God's Mansion), name given by the Indians to their temples. 



The names Onyx and Mexican Marble are due : the first, to 

 the fact that, like the true onj'x, the Mexican rock shows stains 

 and parallel stripes ; and the second, to their chemical composi- 

 tion, which, in point of fact, is the same as that of the common 

 marble. 



I have read in some of the latest European journals that Mr. 

 D'Araour informed the Academy of Sciences of Paris, that the 

 Mexican onyx was nothing but a calcareous alabaster. This same 

 opinion was expressed hy myself, more than two 3^ears ago, in the 

 " Mexican Society of Natural Histor3\" It was published in the 

 first number of the third volume of "'La Naturaleza," and I have 

 been most happ}' to learn that the classification of that celebrated 

 chemist agrees with mine. 



The rocks of Tecalli offer a gi-eat many varieties in their dif- 

 ferent grades of transparency, in the diversity of their colors, and 

 in their physical properties. In order to make a close examina- 

 tion of these rocks, I selected a white specimen, as I considered 

 this to be the purer variety. The characteristics were as follows: — 



Irregular form. H = 4.90 (Breithaupt's scale), G = 2.90. Lus- 

 tre vitreous — resinous. Color white, slightly tinged with green. 

 Transparent in thin slices, and translucent in pieces of some thick- 

 ness. Fracture splitting in the oblique section and fibrous, with a 

 somewhat silk}- appearance in the vertical section. Streak white. 




ISVG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1C7 



B. B. infusible, becoming opaque and with a light reddish color- 

 In two analyses made I found the following composition : — 



Lime 55.00 



Magnesia "i 1.25 



Water and oxide of iron and manganese . . 0.10 



Carbonic acid 42.40 



Sulphuric acid 1.25 



100.00 



This composition shows that the rocks are essentiall\^ formed 

 by carbonate of lime, and that the other substances ma^- be con- 

 sidered as accidentally mixed, because of their existing in dif- 

 ferent proportions in the red, green, and yellow colors, as ob- 

 served in the block. 



The small proportion of sulphuric acid discovered was probably 

 in combination w-ith the lime, as the quantity of this base ex- 

 ceeded that which is required for combination with 42.40 of car- 

 bonic acid ; for this proportion of the acid are required 93.96 of 

 lime. The excess of this base is 1.04, which w'ould take 1.48 of 

 sulphuric acid to form the hj'drous sulphate (Anhydrite), being 

 this amount of acid very similar to that found in the analysis. 



The oxides of iron and manganese, as well as the selenite, were 

 mixed onl^'^ with the carbonate of lime, which alone formed the 

 bulk of the analyzed specimen. 



Prof. W. J. Ward lately presented to the Roj'al School of Mines 

 in London a qualitative anal^'sis of the same rock, having found 

 exactly the same substances that I did myself on my examina- 

 tions ; but, I understand he selected one of the most colored 

 varieties, as he found the iron in large proportions, and partly 

 combined with the carbonic acid. He found the sulphuric acid, 

 and also the oxides of iron and manganese, which latter he con- 

 siders to be the only coloring matters. 



The capricious variegation of colors produced b}^ those oxides, 

 as well as the different grades of transpai'ency and opacity in the 

 polished slabs, give them that magnificent aspect which consti- 

 tutes their indescribable beaut3^ When the blocks are cut in the 

 direction of their planes of stratification, the shades appear in 

 the form of clouds, flames, and stains of all dimensions. The 

 clouds at times appear simulating somewhat tlie form of cumuli, 

 or that of c&7-us. The combination of those extreme grades, and 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18*76. 



of other intermediaries, added to the difference of opacity in some 

 portions of the same slab, produce the most beautiful and inimit- 

 able effects. In some we find the figures of mountains, ruins, and 

 several other objects which look very much like landscape sketches. 

 The colors vary from the dark-green to the apple-green, and from 

 the intense red to the lightest rose tint. Thei'e are also varieties 

 of yellow and blue which intermingle with the former. The me- 

 tallic oxides which produce this coloration are found in greater 

 proportions towards the borders of the veins of some of the rocks, 

 and through which was effected the infiltration of the waters which 

 contained the coloring materials. 



The rocks of Tecalli admit of a higher polish than the common 

 marble. This can be seen in the many specimens now on exhibi- 

 tion in the Mexican Department of the Main Building, and which, 

 by their brilliant surfaces, colors, and transparency, admirably 

 imitate the agates and the true onyx. 



B}'' the foregoing peculiarities we find that the Mexican marble 

 belongs to the group of the calcite^ and from its physical propei'- 

 ties to the variety designated as Travertine^ under which head is 

 classified the calcareous alabaster or onyxite. 



The good reception of these rocks in the markets, the extent 

 of their deposit, unequalled perhaps in this respect, give them 

 sufficient interest to deserve the names of Onyx and Mexican 

 Marble^ a name which probably will be always adopted in com- 

 mercial language. The beds of the rock are situated in the neigh- 

 borhood of the town of Tecalli in the State of Puebla. 



In a report which the Mexican Engineer, Mr. Patricio Murphy, 

 made two years ago, he mentioned three principal deposits which 

 bear the names of "La Pedrera," "Tlahualco," and "Aratleta." 

 The most important of these is the first named, located at twenty 

 miles from the city of Puebla. According to Mr. Murphy, the 

 mountain where the Mexican marble is found is alternately formed 

 of beds of tliis rock, argilleous calcareous rocks, and marls and 

 sands. The quantity in which those rocks are found is very ex- 

 tensive, and warrants the expectation of an almost unlimited sup- 

 ply. It is to be hoped that tlie use of these rocks will be soon 

 extended, because, as they are far more beautiful than marble, and 

 resemble so much the true onyx and agate, they arc appropriate 

 for the richest and most si)lendid decorations. 




187G.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



ON PHOTOGRAPHS OF TASMANIANS AT THE CENTENNIAL 

 EXPOSITION. 



BY CHARLES PICKERING, M.D. 



During 1113^ visit to Australia, in or about 18-iO, every oiie at 

 S3'dney spoke of the Australians as a distinct people from the 

 natives of Tasmania or Yan Diemen's Land ; the Australians, it 

 was said, are " straight-haired blacks," and the Tasmanians are 

 "woolly-haired blacks;" but, not meeting with a Tasmanian, I 

 did not feel authorized to make a distinction on my Map. 



Recentl}'^, at the Centennial Exposition, photographs of Tas- 

 manians, and especially of the last male survivor, have enabled 

 me to form an opinion, and refer the originals to the Papuan 

 Race or large New Guinea negro. 



Among the varieties of man, the Papuan is remarkable for his 

 harsh skin ; and it is on record in books of travel, that the skin 

 of Tasmanians is not soft to the touch like that of Australians; 

 also, that the Tasmanians fill their hair with mud (a character- 

 istic trait of Papuans). 



New Zealand was peopled by Polynesians from the tropics. 

 The emigrants, leaving behind all tropical plants, 3'et carried 

 along old familiar names, some of which tliC3^ transferred to the 

 productions of the colder climate ; one instance I will quote from 

 memory : — 



The Barrinrjtonia of the tropics bears a large husky fruit, 

 which is used by the natives to float their seines or nets ; the 

 Polynesian name of the tropical tree has been transferred in New 

 Zealand to a tree of the pine kind ; its wood, however, is very 

 light, and made by the New Zealanders into seine-floats. 



Tasmania in a similar manner was peopled b3' Papuans from 

 the tropics, by emigrants probably acquainted with agriculture, 

 but who did not bring esculents suitable for cultivation in the 

 cold climate of the new country. 



Two other important corrections have come to light since the 

 publication of m3^ Map : — 



One is the discover3' b3' Schweinfurth, in Central Africa, of a 

 country under the equator inhabited 1)3' the Hottentot race, iden- 

 tified by liim with the pigm3' nation that, according to Homer, 

 12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1816. 



suffered from attacks by cranes ; the true location even pointed 

 out by Herodotus. 



The third correction is derived from photographs, showing that 

 the Aino of Northern Japan, Yeddo, Saghalien, and the neighbor- 

 ing islands belong to the White or Caucasian Race. The most 

 eastern island bears the name of " Yurup," as though given by a 

 land party journeying east in search of Europe, precisely as 

 Columbus by sea journeyed west in search of Asia. The geo- 

 graphical position of the Aino, and their maritime expeditions to 

 the Aleutian Islands, accord with Mexican and South American 

 tradition of an ancient intercourse with long-bearded white men 

 from the west (see Humboldt). 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ITI 



September 5. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twentj'-nine members present. 



A paper entitled " Hexagonite, Goldsmith, a varietj^ of Tremo- 

 lite," by Geo. A. Koenig, was presented for publication. 



Morjjhology of the Pear. — Dr. McGrath placed on the table 

 abnormal fruit of the pear, in appearance resembling huge acorns. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehax took occasion to note the recent advances 

 of morphological knowledge as explaining such phenomena. Even 

 recent text-books taught that a fruit was but modified leaves. Tlie 

 exact truth is that a fruit is leaves and branch. When a bud is 

 being formed in the apple, pear, or similar fruits, it may finally be 

 either a flower-bud or a bud producing a new branch. Varying 

 phases of nutrition decide this question. Exactly the nature of 

 this variation we do not know; but we do know that the growth- 

 force in the bud is arrested by some law of nutrition, and, instead 

 of an elongated branch, what would be its series of spirals are 

 drawn together closely, and the whole modified and made to form a 

 flower. Thus, in the pear, it takes five buds to form one full cj'cle 

 on a pear branch. When growth is arrested to form a flower this 

 first C3'cle is transformed into a five-lobed calyx, and generally this 

 becomes much enlarged and fleshy, and covers all the other cycles 

 of buds which go to make up the inner layer of flesh terminating 

 in the petals, carpels or core, and so on. Now, in the case before 

 the Academy, the arresting force was imperfect. It had succeeded 

 in forming the outer or calycine verticillate series of buds into a 

 fleshy matter, giving what here might be called the cup of the 

 " acorn," when the accelerating or branch-producing force gained 

 a temporary advantage and pushed on, forming the acorn-like cen- 

 tre, but only to be soon again arrested. This abnormal pear was 

 indeed nothing more than an effort of the tree to produce a branch 

 after a fruit bad been decided on; a struggle which was finally de- 

 cided in favor of the fruit, if we might speak metaphorically in 

 explaining the case. 



Natural Hybrids. — Mr. Meehan said that modern naturalists 

 were mostly convinced that new forms were evolved from old ones, 

 but how much the new form had been influenced in its creation by 

 a thus far mysterious law of change inherent in the old form, im- 

 pelling it to bring forth tlie new one when nature's own good time 

 had come; or how far external influences acted in bringing about 

 these changes, was still a matter for science to solve. He thought 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1816. 



the innate power of change was much greater tlian many of our 

 best naturalists were willing to grant. In illustration, he held a 

 letter from a leading. botanist inclosing what he contended was a 

 hybrid between Verbena stricta and V. urticsefolia. Air. M. de- 

 scribed the structure of Yerbeua. The tube of the corolla was 

 half an inch in length, and narrow, and only insects of a lai'ge 

 size and long trunks could reach to the bottom for honey. The 

 anthers were curved just above the stigma, and both organs ma- 

 tured near together. Above all, and completely closing the en- 

 trance to the tube, was a dense mass of hair. Supposing, on 

 prevailing theories of cross fertilization by insect agencj', that an 

 insect should visit the verbena flower for hone}', and the trunk 

 get covered with pollen, the rather large trunk would get stripped 

 clean of its pollen in wiping against the mass of hair on with- 

 drawal; or, if a little did remain in spite of the brushing, would 

 most likely get thoroughly cleaned on the visit to the next flower. 

 Hj'bridization by this agenc}', and there appeared to l)e no other 

 in this case in nature, was well nigh impossible. He had always 

 regarded the dangers of hybridization, and consequent confusion 

 of species, as an a priori argument against the prevalent theories 

 of cross fertilization by insect agency being any part of a great 

 plan for the development of the races of plants. At any rate in 

 Verbena^ the mass of hair in the throat could not by any interpre- 

 tation be regarded as an arrangement in the aid of cross breeding. 

 It was an obstruction, and, in his opinion, an insurmountable one. 

 The striking form of Verbena between V. stricta and V. urticee- 

 folia, sent to him by his distinguished coi'respondent, he should 

 regard as no hj-brid, but as a form evolved in the due course of 

 an inherent guidance from the former species, a power continu- 

 ously at work, and which "external circumstances" tended as 

 often to repress as to aid. 



September 12. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirt3'-two members present. 



A paper entitled " On the Lingual Dentition, Jaw and Genitalia 

 of Carelia, Onchidella, and other Pulmouata," by Wm. G. Binne)\ 

 was presented for publication. 



Welwitschia mirabilis Mr. Thomas Meehan called attention 



to a specimen of Welwitschia mirabilis, exhibited in the I'ortu- 

 guese African section of the Centennial Exhibition, as well worthy 

 of the examination of members of the Academy. The trunk in 

 this specimen is vase form, and about two feet across, and stands 

 about two feet from the ground. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



Nocturnal fioioering of Mentzelia ornata. — Mr.TnoMAS Meehan 

 said this old species liad onl}^ just found its wfi}^ into cultivation, 

 and afTorded an opportunit}' to note its distinctive habits. His 

 nephew, Mr. Joseph T. Meehan, had kindl^^ watched for him, and 

 found that the same flower opened on four successive nights ; on the 

 fifth it made a weak attempt to open, but soon faded awa3% The 

 flower commenced to open soon after sundown (6 P. M.), very 

 rapidly the first day, and commenced closing again in about three 

 hours, becoming entirel}^ closed by midnight. The second night they 

 opened more slowly, and commenced to close earlier, so that the 

 final closing was again about midnight. The last two nights the 

 motion was slower, but occupied about the same time on the whole. 

 Mr. Redfield had noted, Mr. M. observed, that some Mentzelias 

 opened by day and some by night, but he knew of no attempts to 

 time the opening exactly. 



In order to tell wlietlier these openings and closings by night 

 had anything to do Avith fertilization b}' insect agency, he had in- 

 closed one flower in a gauze bag, and found it to have a seed ves- 

 sel apparently as perfectly developed as the rest. The seed might 

 possibly be imperfect when the seed vessel was mature, but this 

 was hardly likel}', as the instances where plants developed their 

 capsules in the absence of fertilization were uncommon. 



September 19. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



Notes on the Coniferse. — Dr. Engelmann, of St. Louis, spoke 

 about Abies Fraseri^ the very local species of tlie highest moun- 

 tains of North Carolina, which he had just visited, together with 

 several botanical friends, members of this society. This is the 

 tree which caused these mountains to be designated as the Black 

 Mountains; giving their summits that sombre hue for which they 

 are known. They seem to grow nowhere but on these mountains, 

 and only on those that reach up to or above 0000 feet altitude. 

 The northern localities claimed for the species, rest on confusion 

 with forms of Abies balsamea, the common northern balsam, of 

 which our tree may be claimed to be the southern representative. 

 A. balsamea does not seem to extend southward further than the 

 Yirginian mountain region; and it would be interesting to as- 

 certain how near both species approach each other. 



Besides the well-known characters of tlie cones and their cusps, 

 excellent distinctions are found in the structure of the leaves of 

 both species. It may not be generally known, though it is a fact 

 to which, since several years, some European botanists have called 

 attention, that the anatomical structure of the leaves of these 




174 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



species, as well as of conifers in general, are extremel}' various, 

 and that this structure well characterizes many species, and is one 

 of the safest means to arrange them in natural groups. Abies 

 Fraseri and balsamea are so nearly allied, that without fruit they 

 are constantly confounded ; but the structure of the leaves will 

 always distinguish them so well, that a single leaf, or even a frag- 

 ment of one, will invariably solve all difficulty. The leaves of 

 Abies have under the epidermis, and between it and the cells of 

 the parench3-ma, which are full of chlorophyll, an arrangement of 

 cells of thick walls, elongate form, and destitute of chlorophyll, 

 analogous to bast cells, which have been called hijpodermic cells; 

 we find them in all species of Abies on the edges and on the keel, 

 where they strengthen the leaf; but their distribution under the 

 epidermis of the upper side of the leaf is very different in difier- 

 ent species — they may be wanting there altogether or may be 

 differently grouped, or may extend over the whole upper surface. 

 Now in all forms of A. balsamea they are there almost entirely 

 absent, even in those of the highest New England mountains; while 

 Fraseri exhibits under the microscope a continuous hypodermic 

 stratum of them. 



These differences may seem minute and perhaps unimportant, 

 but the}'- remind us of similar structural differences in the higher 

 or vascular cryptogams, in wliich on differences in variation and 

 cell-structure much stress is laid, and justly so; while in higher 

 developed plants the anatomical structure of the leaves is much 

 more uniform. 



This leads to another and much more important question, the 

 position of the conifers in the vegetable world. 



Conifers are usuall}"- placed at the bottom of the dicot3'ledonous 

 plants, and Cycadeai with the highest monocotyledons, near the 

 Palms. Now, Robert Brown, more than fifty years ago, has shown 

 that both differ from all other flowering plants, by bearing on open 

 leaf-organs naked ovules; nor are their seeds inclosed in regular 

 fruits, a peculiarity which has procured for them the name of 

 gyranosperms. It must be admitted, however, that to this day 

 the question, though diligently ventilated, is not entirely settled, 

 or, to express it more correctly, gymnosperm}^ is not j^et acknow- 

 ledged by every botanist. 



Calling to our aid the investigations in another field of natural 

 science, FalfEontology teaches us that the lowest forms appear 

 in the oldest epochs of our globe's historj-, and that onl}' in the 

 later periods the higher developed forms are found. Now, the 

 fact is, that ages and ages before other flowering plants, angio- 

 spermous plants are found, and almost coetancous with the 

 earliest cr^^ptogamic land plants — in the Carboniferous and even 

 in the Devonian periods conifers already made tlieir appearance. 



As in the development of the mammals, the prototypes of many 

 of the orders are found anterior in their geological age, as well as 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



lower in grade of development ; so the conifers, with their exoge- 

 nous trunk and their often numerous cot3'ledons, will have to be 

 considered the prototypes of the exogens, while the cj^cadeae with 

 endogenous trunk, and unequal or almost single cotyledons, are 

 those of the endogens. Both together, comprised under the gene- 

 ral terra of gymnosperms, will eventually be acknowledged as a 

 link intermediate between tiie vascular cryptogams and the flower- 

 ing plants. 



Naturalization of Plants. — Mr. Martindale spoke of the 

 various agencies by which foreign plants have been introduced 

 into the country, also of the manner of their distribution, instan- 

 cing the case of Rudbeckia hirta, L., now A'ery abundant in the 

 eastern section, having been introduced in grass seed from the 

 west. He also mentioned a number of plants that are common on 

 the coast of Virginia and southward, which have been collected 

 in the lower counties of New Jersey, evidentl}^ from seed carried 

 by birds in their migrations coastwise. 



Within a few years large quantities of ballast have been de- 

 posited in the neighborhood of Philadelphia, on which have been 

 " collected a large number of plants not found elsewhere in the 

 vicinit}'. Some of the species occur every year, and in some in- 

 stances spread into the waste grounds ; others have not appeared 

 the second season, although their seeds became fully matured. 

 He stated that this subject of introduction and establishment of 

 foreign plants was becoming of more and more importance, as the 

 geographical distribution of species was being investigated, and 

 where reasons could be assigned, as to the manner of introduction, 

 they give it an additional interest. He had, within a few days, 

 collected, near the mouth of Wissahickon Creek, a plant which 

 had been determined to be Leonnriis glaucescens. A large num- 

 ber of luxuriant specimens were growing in the locality men- 

 tioned, and it appeared to be fully established. The plant is an 

 entire stranger in this part of the countr}', and he could assign no 

 way by which its introduction might have been effected at this 

 time. It might possibly have been introduced from Siberia, by 

 way of Japan, in some of the materials intended for the Centen- 

 nial Exhibition. 



September 26. 



Mr. Edav. S. "Whelen in the chair. 



Thirty-four members present. 



A paper entitled " Remarks on Ptiloris Wilsonii, Ogden," by 

 Jas. A. Ogden, M.D., was presented for publication. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1816. 



On Sphenes from Delaicare County, Penna. — Dr. Wm. H. 

 FoRWOOD, U. S. A., communicated the fact that a number of 

 sphenes of ver}'^ large size and beautiful 3'ellowish-green color 

 have been taken from a quarry on the property of Jno. INIullin, 

 near Bridgewater Station, Chester Creek R. R., Del. Co., Penna. 

 The rock formation at this point consists for the most part of a 

 hard, curled, garnetiferous gneiss, with here and there a narrow- 

 vein of quartz or feldspar. 



Iron p3'rites, hornblende, black mica, and a few staurolites 

 have been noticed there. Near the eastern end of what is known 

 as the middle quarrj', there is a stratum of loose, dark-brown 

 mica schist, permeated with a spring of water; and in the wettest 

 portion of this, about ten feet from the surface, the sphenes were 

 found in a small space in disseminated crystals, associated with 

 loose crystals of quartz. 



Unfortunately, the greater number of them were broken in 

 blasting, and several are known to have been lost or destroyed ; 

 but he had collected pieces representing over thirt}^ (30) distinct 

 crystals from this one place. The}' vary from one to three inches 

 in length, and all, without exception, present a twinned formation. 

 Onl}'^ three crystals escaped being broken. The largest is two 

 and three-quarters inches long b}' an inch and a half across, and 

 weighs eight hundred and sixt3--four grains tvoy. The next in 

 size is two inches long, and weighs Ave hundred and ten grains ; 

 and the smallest is an inch and five-eighths long, and weighs one 

 hundred and ninety grains. He had prepared a plaster cast of 

 each of these, which were presented, together with the fragment of 

 a still larger crystal, being the largest one found, and weighing 

 ten hundred and thirty' grains. This is a new locality for sphenes, 

 and these appear to constitute a new variety of that mineral in 

 this State. 



The Harmony of Antagonism of Teeth. — Dr. McQuillen di- 

 rected attention to a human skull in which, owing to the loss of 

 the bicuspids and molars in the left side of the lower jaw, an 

 upper molar, failing to meet with the antagonizing teeth, pro- 

 truded from the alveolus twice its original length. In addition 

 to this, and from the same cause, the left superior maxilla had 

 fallen considerabl}' below the level of right superior maxilla, and, 

 carr3Mng with it the malar bone, had lowered the orbit to such an 

 extent that the face must have been quite disfigured during life. 

 There was a marked contrast between this and another skull 

 shown, in which the thirty-two teeth were all in good condition, 

 symmetrical in their arrangement, and illustrating in a marked 

 degree the harmon}' of antagonism. During life the upper and 

 lower teeth articulate with each other, so that when the jaws are 

 closed the3^ maintain each other in their positions. The incisors 

 and canines of the upper jaw overlap those of the lower so as 




18V6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ITT 



to conceal the upper third. The external cusps of the lower bi- 

 cuspids and molars are received into depressions between the 

 external and internal cusps of similar teeth of the upper jaw. 

 No two teeth oppose each other onl}', but each tooth in closing 

 the jaws impinges upon two, so that, should a tooth be lost, or 

 even two alternate teeth, still the corresponding teeth of the 

 opposite jaw are to some extent opposed, and thus remain useful. 

 When a tooth is wholly unopposed, a process is set up in the jaw 

 by which the useless organ is gradually extruded from the socket, 

 as shown in the first skull. 



Dr. Isaac T. Coates was elected a member. 



Don Alvaro de la Gandara, of Madrid, Spain, Col. Juan J. 

 Marin, of Barcelona, Spain, and Sig. Alessandro Castellaui, of 

 Rome, Italy, were elected correspondents. 



The committees to which they had been referred recommended 

 the following papers to be published : — 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18T6. 



NOTE ON THE DISCOVERY OF REPEESENTATIVES OF THREE ORDERS 

 OF FOSSILS NEW TO THE CRETACEOUS FORMATION OF NORTH 

 AMERICA. 



BY W. M. GABB. 



It is not often, in a snliject so long and so thoroughly worked 

 over as has been the palaeontology of the American cretaceous 

 formation, that a student has the good fortune to discover at 

 the same time the first representatives of three orders previously 

 unknown. In a little lot of fossils from the " Timber Creek" or 

 yellow limestone beds of the neighborhood of Vincenttown, New 

 Jersey, recently found b3^ Miss Frances H, Bryan, and presented 

 by her through her father, Col. T. M. Bryan, to the Academy, I 

 find the stem of an undescribed Pentacrinite^ the first crinoid of 

 the formation in the United States, and a number of plates of the 

 first American cretaceous star-fish. In view of the unusual 

 interest attached to these discoveries, I shall depart from the 

 rule I have followed for several years, of abstaining from the de- 

 scription of isolated species and from imperfect material, and 

 give the following brief diagnoses, in the hope of stimulating the 

 search for these objects, thereby rendering our knowledge of 

 them more complete : — 

 Pentacrinus Bryani, n. s. PL 5, figs. 1, la, \b. 



Known onl}^ from two fragments of the stem, one consisting of 

 seven joints, the other of eight or nine. Stem distinctly pentan- 

 gular, angles rounded ; segments alternating, each alternate one 

 more and less constricted in the longitudinal grooves. The less 

 constricted segments are concavely rounded on the sides, while 

 their alternates are cut on each side b}' a deep, acute indentation, 

 giving them the appearance, as seen from above, of flowers with 

 five rounded petals. Lateral surface of the segments convex and 

 smooth; articular face slightly raised on the margin and radiately 

 denticulate. 



In style, this stem is nearest to P. scaJaris, Goldf., from the 

 Oxford, especially that form figured in Petr. Germ. PI. 52, f. 8, b ; 

 but the angles are more rounded, and the flower-like appearance 

 of the articular face of the segment is more marked. 

 Goniaster mammillata, n. s. PL 5, figs. 2, 2a, 25. 



About thirty marginal plates occur in the collection, some of 

 which resemble in form those of G. {Ant.) quinqueloba, Goldf, 





PRO C - A . N. S . PHIL A.1876 . 



PLATE v: 



3 a // 



2a 

 ij!, '■■ii, — ' 



\ 



2£ 



LJ 



2a 



2a. 



^»5? *' -'» »'^ ''-^ •* 





Illustrated by the Barton Fund. 



Gab^ on New American Cretaceous Fossils. 





PR0C-A.N.S.PHILi^.l876. 



PLATE XVII. 



4. 





^ 



% 



yr 1 //. 



#-^^ 

 'W^ 



^ 7 



# ^ "^ 



r-\ i 





Illustrated ly the Barton Fund. 



Gatl) on American Cretaceous Fossils 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Petr. Germ. PI. 63, f. 5, b, c, d, except that they are somewhat 

 shorter and thicker, and the pointed extremity is replaced by one 

 truncated nearly straight across. But the most marked peculiarity 

 of the present species lies in several marginal plates in the collec- 

 tion, corresponding with Goldfuss's fig. e. These are longer and 

 narrower in form, and each bears on the end of the plate, which is 

 acute in tlie European species, an elongated rounded protuber- 

 ance, projecting bej-ond the end of the plate and overhanging it. 

 Other smaller plates, about one-half longer than Avide, are thinner, 

 but retain the superficial outline of the first mentioned. 



From the size of the plates, our species seems to be nearly of 

 the same size as that with which I have compared it ; but the 

 difference in form, and the great rounded protul)erance on the 

 long plates, reversing the relative thickness of the two ends, will 

 at once distinguish them. 



Since writing the above, I have received from Col. Biyan 

 another little fossil, so akin to the present subject that I add it. 

 No Cirripedes have been reported from the American cretaceous, 

 and his fossil is the carinal plate of a Scalpellam. On showing 

 it to Mr. Conrad, he recognized it as being similar to a fragment 

 in his possession from New Jersey, also from the white limestone, 

 but of which the exact locality is unknown. Through the kind- 

 ness of these two gentlemen, thereft)re, I have the means of making 

 known the species, the more especially since Mr. Conrad's carina 

 is accompanied also by a scutal valve of the same animal. The 

 carina (figs. 3 and 3a) is large, indicating a size of about an inch 

 and a half in length of the animal, without the stem. It has 

 nearly straiglit sides, is very gentlj' curved ; external surface 

 nearlj' flat at the upper part and rounded subangular below in 

 the median line. Upper end acute, base rounded ; inner face 

 deeply concaA'e; sides bearing a prominent linear rib which marks 

 the three parts of surface into which Parwin divides this plate. 

 This will be better understood by a reference to the cross-section, 

 PI. 5, fig. 36, made across the middle of the plate. The scutal 

 plate (fig. 4) is nearly straight on its occludent margin ; the tergal 

 margin is strongly sloping and a little concave at the apical por- 

 tion ; the base is straight or veiy slightly convex. The surface is 

 slightly angulated, and marked by strong lines of growth. I pro- 

 pose for this rare fossil the name of S. Conradi, in recognition of 

 the donor of the greater part of the material from which the 

 description is drawn. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



HEXAGONITE, GOLDSMITH, A VARIETY OF TREMOLITE. 

 BY GEORGE A. KOENIG, PH.D. 



In sx paper read by Mr. Goldsmith before the Academy (August 

 15, 1876), he described a new mineral occurring at Edwards, St. 

 Lawrence Co., N. Y., for which he proposed the name hexagonite. 

 According to his description the mineral is hexagonal in form, is 

 optically uniaxial, and in composition is a bisilicate of magnesium, 

 calcium, and sodium. Mr. Goldsmith assigns it a place in the 

 beryl group. Upon inspection of the mineral, the habitus of the 

 crystals struck me as being very little like that of a hexagonal 

 mineral. Some of the crystals, especially the larger ones, have a 

 decided tabular habitus, such as we often find in minerals of the 

 rhombic, monoclinic and triclinic systems. The appearance of 

 the mineral is altogether novel and striking; the fine light arae- 

 thj^stine color, and a peculiar lustre, together with the aggregative 

 entwining of the crystals, render it very attractive to the eye. 

 My doubts as to the accuracy of Mr. Goldsmith's determination 

 being roused, I resolved to examine the mineral myself, having 

 been furnished with plentiful material, through Mr. Clarence C. 

 Bement's kindness, who was the first in this cit}' to obtain it. 



System of Crystallization^ Monoclinic. The crystals form 

 rhombic prisms, showing the faces of a prism and of a pinakoid, 

 the excessive development of the latter producing the tabular 

 shape of the larger crystals. The section of the prism is, of 

 course, a hexagon, but the peculiar mode of aggregation prevented 

 the definite formation of the terminal faces. However, this want 

 is partially supplied by a basal cleavage at such an angle that no 

 doubt can exist as to the monoclinic character of the mineral. 



The larger crystals cleave very perfectly according to the prism, 

 and one face with greater perfection than the other, which speaks 

 also for the monoclinic form of the mineral. The angle of cleavage 

 was found 124=^ 35'. 



From a large number of measurements, I select the results 

 obtained from one crystal, which was quite small, but had even 

 and splendent faces. 




181C.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



Readings. Calculated angles. Mean. 



0° 00') 

 62° 30'! 1"°S»' 1"°8«' 



111° 43' 124° 41' 



242° 15' in°43' 124° 39' 



297° 40' 124° 30' 



360° 00' 117° 40' 



The prismatic angle is therefore 124° 39', corresponding very 

 closely to that of tremolite, 124° 30'. Color pink, violet, amethys- 

 tine ; luslre, strongly vitreous ; cleavage, basal, uneven and pris- 

 matic. 



H = 6.5. Sp. gr. = 2.996, B. B. 



Fuses to a white enamel in a strong flame. The white powder 

 remains unchanged. With borax gives a pure amethyst glass in 

 O. FL, with sodium carbonate fuses to a glass, which is sky-blue 

 when cold. These reactions indicate manganese. With cobalt 

 solution reacts like an earthy silicate. 



13.932 



(MgO, CaO) SiO, 



Now, if we compare with this the composition of tremolite from 



Gouverneur N. Y., a white variety, analyzed by Rammelsberg 



(Pogg. ciii. 299)— 



SiO, =57.40 



MgO = 24.69 



CaO = 13.89 



(AlA + FeA)= 1-n 

 n^O + F = 0.40 



98.12 

 we see that the new mineral differs from this only b}^ having re- 

 placed a small percentage of magnesium and calcium b}- manganese 

 and sodium. Tlie manganese produces the distinguishing color. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



EEMARKS ON PTILOEIS WILSONII, OGDEN. 

 BY J, A. OGDEN, M.D. 



lu 1113^ description of Ptiloris Wilsonii (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 p. 451, 1875), two important characters were considered as being 

 sufficient upon which to establish the species: but, since the pub- 

 lication of the article, it has been observed that the legs and feet 

 are those of another bird. 



This specimen was presented to the Academy bj Dr. T. B. 

 Wilson as coming from the Rivoli Collection, and no doubt the 

 present legs and feet were substituted for the absent ones so as 

 to complete the mounting of the bird. This was not noticed at 

 the time the bird was described, and credit is due to Mr. D. G. 

 Elliot for directing my attention to it. 



Reliance, however, may be placed upon the other characters — 

 the extent of the metallic-colored feathers of the neck and breast, 

 which differ from Ptiloris magnijicus in that they are not confined 

 to the centre of the throat, but extend around beneath the eyes, 

 covering the sides of the neck, as well as in front. Now, whether 

 this difference be due to the manner in which the specimen has 

 been prepared, or not, remains yet to be fully determined, and 

 cannot be without further investigation ; if it is, then Ptiloris 

 Wilsonii will have to stand as a synonym of Ptiloris magnificus. 





Pr.A.KS.PWl'i,lS76. 



P1.6. 



%J 



tiS' 



V 



/; 





*.- 



i^ 



o 



i\ B3 (,] 



&M§ p WW 



ffm^A^v 



iXi] f? 



M 









jf 



^tti^^s^ ^ 





SO 



^\ c^'N. 



i. 









gg\fi^r^ 



>^r 







n 



7y 





— — — — -— ~" PlTto-Lith. bv ) CARBUTT, 624 N. 24th St, Phila 



W.G-.rJ . del 



Bmney on Dentition Scc.of Pulmonata 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



ON THE LINGTIAL DENTITION, JAW, AND GENITALIA OF CAEELIA, 

 ONCHIDELLA, AND OTHER PULMONATA. 



BY W. G. BINNEY. 



Macrocyclis sportella, Gld. 



Oregon. Mr. 0. B. Johnson. 



Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in tbe genus. (See Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1875.) 



Teeth 22 — 1—22. The 6th tooth is the largest. The peculiar 

 side spur noticed on the inner laterals of Macr. Vancouverensis 

 is present in this species also. The central tooth is of same tj'pe 

 us that of the last-named species, to which sportella is most nearly 

 allied by its shell. PI. YI., fig. aa. 

 Zonites inornatus, Say. 



PI. YI., fig. c, represents the dentition of this species, showing 

 both planes of the cusps and cutting points. The dotted lines 

 show the lower plane, i. e., the part which rests on the base of 

 attachment. This is what I have hitherto shown in my plates. 

 From this lower plane the cusp and cutting point bulge out later- 

 ally as they round upwards. The most outward margin is the 

 other plane shown, giving the widest extension of the cutting 

 point. 

 Zonites fuliginosus, Griff. 



On pi. YI., fig. D, is a lateral tooth of this species showing the two 

 planes described under Z. inornatus. 



Zonites (■?) Bermudensis, Pfr. 



Bermuda. Mr. J. Matthew Jones to Mr. Bland. 



The specimens were living, enabling me to stud}' advantageously 

 the external characters of the animal. There is a distinct locomo- 

 tive disk to the foot, but no caudal mucus pore, and no longitu- 

 dinal furrows above the margin of the foot, so that the species 

 cannot be placed in Zonites, which has the last two characters. 

 The external orifice of generation is quite under the mantle, not 

 behind the right eye-peduncle. 



The jaw and dentition I have already described. (Ann. Lye. 

 Nat. Hist, of N. Y., X., 221.) 



The genitalia present the following peculiarities. The genital 

 bladder is small, globular, on a long duct. The penis sac is long, 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T6. 



tapering to its apex, where it receives the vas deferens and the 

 retractor muscle. There is a long, stout, dart sac, containing a 

 delicate, arrow-like dart of the same form as figured by Leid}^ for 

 Zonites ligerus (Terr. Moll., U. S. I.). 



The absence of the caudal mucu spore removes the species from 

 Zonites, nor can it be placed in any recognized geuus. 



Limax Hewstoni, J. G. Coop. 



California. Dr. Cooper. 



Pl.YI., fig. F, represents the genitalia of this species, which I have 

 recently drawn from specimens kindly furnished by Dr. Cooper. 

 For description, see Ann. Lj'c. Xat. Hist, of N. Y., XL, p. 22. 



Limax campestris, Binney, var. occidentalis. 



California. Dr. J. G. Cooper. (See Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. of 

 Phila., 18T2, 146, pi. III., fig. c.) 



In outward appearance, in genitalia and in jaw, this form can- 

 not be distinguished from the eastern form. Its lingual membrane 

 has 35 — 1 — 35 teeth, 13 being laterals. On some of both the inner 

 and outer marginals I can detect the side spur which in the eastern 

 form I have only observed in the outer marginals. In this par- 

 ticular, occidentalis is more nearly allied to L. montanus, Inger- 

 soll,' but when the value of differences in such slight details 

 becomes known, I believe all three species will be found identical. 



PI. YI., fig. X, 6, gives two inner marginals. 



Onohidella borealis, Dall. 



Alaska. Dr. W. H. Dall. 



In three specimens examined I found a jaw (pi. YI., fig. bb), low, 

 wide, slightly arcuate, ends scarcely attenuated, blunt, anterior 

 surface ribless. 



Lingual membrane (pi. YL, fig. ee) long and wide. Teeth about 

 61 — 1 — 61, arranged strongly en chevron. The central tooth is 

 large, longer than wide, truncated above, expanded below its 

 middle, and incurved at the basal mai'gin. The reflection is large, 

 tricuspid, each cusp bearing a decided cutting point. The side 

 teeth have a long, narrow base of attachment, a small portion of 

 its upper portion thrown outwards, the balance curving inwards, 

 giving an irregular bow-shape to the whole base of attachment — 



• This is the species indicated by me as L. Ingersolli, iu Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1875, 176. 




IS'Ze.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



whose upper and lower edges are abruptly truncated. The reflec- 

 tion is near the base, and consists of a very small, inner cusp, 

 bearing a small conical cutting point, and another, outer, larger 

 cusp, bearing an extraordinarily developed, wide, expanding, 

 bluntly truncated cutting point. As the teeth pass outwards 

 towards the outer margin of the membrane, the}'' at first increase 

 and then decrease in size, but retain the same shape quite to the 

 edge. 



An outer lateral tooth is figured in c, an inner lateral in b. 



Fig. E, of plate YI., gives a view of the lower surface of the 

 animal and also one of the head, showing the short, stout eye 

 peduncles and curious oral appendages. 



The Onchidiidse are described as agnathous, but I am confident 

 of having observed the jaw figured. 

 Ariolimax Columbianus, Gld. 



From Mr. 0. B. Johnson, of Forest Grove, Oregon, I have 

 received specimens of this species. On examining the genitalia, 

 I find them to agree perfectly with what I have already figured in 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila., 1874, pi. XI., fig. c. I am con- 

 vinced, therefore, of the identity of the specimens there figured, of 

 which some doubt then existed. 



Binneya notabilis, W. G. B. . 



Sta. Barbara Island, California, Mr. Henr}^ Hemphill. 



PI. VI., fig. V, represents almost the whole of the genital system. 

 The penis sac is long, narrow, tapering at its apex, where it receives 

 the vas deferens : the retractor muscle is inserted below the 

 entrance of the latter. The genital bladder is oval, on a long, 

 narrow duct. There is a small, saclike, accessory organ, probably 

 a dart sac. 



Carelia bicolor, Jay. 



Dr. W. H. Dall. 



Through the kindness of Dr. Dall, I have been able to examine 

 this species, former!}^ known as Achatiiia bicolor. Thus I have 

 increased the list of subgenera or groups o^ Achatinella of Gulick's 

 arrangement, whose jaw and lingual dentition is known, leaving 

 still to be examined Newcombia only of the same arrangement. 



It will be seen from my description, that while Carelia (or at 

 least this species) differs utterly in jaw and dentition from Gulick's 

 Achatinella s. s., Bulimella, Apex, Partulina, Auriculella, it agrees 

 13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



in dentition witli Iiis Laminella, Amastra, Leptachatina, but differs 

 in having a costate jaw. Carelia, therefore, must stand distinct 

 from any of the other groups of Achatinella. 



My description and figures should be studied in connection with 

 my former papers on Achatinella in Annals of Lyceum of Natural 

 History of New York, Yol. X., p. 331, pi. xv., and Yol. XI., p. 190, 

 pi. xiv., in the preparation of which I was assisted by Mr. Bland. 



The animal is obtuse before, pointed behind. The mantle 

 appears subcentral in the single individual examined, which is 

 preserved in alcohol. The orifice of respiration and anal orifice 

 are as usual in the heliciform genera. The genital orifice as far 

 as I can judge is somewhat removed from behind the right eye 

 peduncle, rather under the mantle edge, but it is difficult to say 

 what is its position in the living animal. There is no sign of a 

 distinct locomotive disk or of a caudal mucus pore. 



The jaW (pi. YI., fig. g) is low, slightly arcuate, with but little 

 attenuated, blunt ends: anterior surface with ten stout ribs, den- 

 ticulating eitlier margin. 



Lingual membrane (pi. YL, fig. cc) long and narrow. Teeth 

 St — 1 — 37 of same t3'pe as I have formerl}' described (1. c.) for 

 species of Laminella, Amastra, and Leptachatina, the marginals 

 being irregularly and obliquely pectinate as in Achlla. obesa (1. c). 



The digestiA'e system, as would be anticipated from the shape 

 of the shell, is characterized by the extreme length of the oeso- 

 phagus. The salivary ducts are comparative!}' short. The sali- 

 vary glands are small and in a globular mass around the oesophagus. 

 The buccal mass with its pouch of the lingual membrane is as 

 usual: its retractor muscle is attached to the retractor of the head. 



The genitalia are here figured (pi. YL, fig. o). It will be seen 

 that there is in the specimen examined a decided external swelling 

 of both male and female (the former, female (/. o.), large and horn- 

 shaped, the latter, male (m. o.), small and globular) organs; owing, 

 perhaps, to the sudden immersion of the individuals in alcohol. 

 The gravid state of the uterus precludes the possibility of these 

 swellings being preparatory to accouplement This condition of 

 the external orifices accounts for the wide separation of the genital 

 bladder from the vagina, and of the accessory organ (pr.) from 

 the penis sac. The figure is of life size, all the organs liaving been 

 accurately measured. The testicle (t.) is composed of short coeca 

 grouped in a globular mass. The epididymis {ep.) is short and 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 18T 



greatlj" convoluted. The ovaiy (o.) is obtasel3^ tongue-shaped and 

 lobate. The oviduct is sacciform and contained two well-developed 

 emlnyonic shells, showing the species to be viviparous, as well as 

 four masses, probably consisting of less mature embr^-os. The 

 genital bladder is small, suboval, on a short duct. The penis sac 

 (p. >s.) is long, cylindrical, with a developed, extended median con- 

 striction. The vas deferens (v. d.) enters the apex of the penis 

 sac: the retractor muscle {r.p.) of the penis is inserted just above 

 the entrance. There is a long, narrow, accessory organ (pr.) 

 with an extended median constricJtion to the penis sac, perhaps a 

 dart sac or prostate gland. There is a stout retractor muscle (r.) 

 to the external horn-shaped swelling of the male orifice. 



Microphysa incrustata, Poey. 



Corpus Christi, Texas. A dried specimen collected over thirty 

 years ago b}' Mr. Bartlett. 



Jaw low, wide, slightly arcuate, ends blunt, but little attenuated: 

 anterior surface with numerous, crowded ribs, bluntly denticu- 

 lating the lower margin. 



Lingual membrane (pi. Yl., fig. t) with 13 — 1 — 13 teeth, 5 per 

 feet laterals. The teeth are of same t^'pe as in other species of 

 3Iwrophysa, as IngersoUi (Ann. Tuyc. of X. H. of X. Y., XI., pi. 

 xviii., fig. c). The jaw also resembles that of Microphysa rather 

 than Patula, to which I formerly referred the species. Von Mar- 

 tens places it in 3Iicrophysa. Fig. b shows marginal teeth. 

 Triodopsis inflecta, Say. 



Indiana. Mr. F. Stein. 



Genitalia as in T. Rugeli. See Ann. Lj-c. Nat. Hist, of N. Y., 

 XL, pi. xvi., fig. 18. 



Turricula tuberculosa, Conr. 



Palestine. A dried specimen in Mr. Bland's collection. 



Lingual membrane (pi. Y L, fig. j) long and narrow. Teeth 28 — 

 1 — 28. Centrals and laterals without decided, side cusps or cut- 

 ting points, but the central cutting point has a decided lateral 

 bulge. Marginals low, wide, with one inner, oblique, large bifid 

 cutting point, and two outer smaller cutting points. A marginal 

 is shown in /'. 



Jaw with numerous, crowded, broad, flat ribs, denticulating 

 either margin. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876- 



Helix mouodon, Rackett. 



Indiana. Mr. F. Stein. 



Genitalia (pi. YL, fig. q) cliaracterized especially by a very un- 

 proportionally large penis sac, which is long, club-shaped, greatly 

 enlarged above, where it receives the vas deferens and retractor 

 muscle. The genital bladder is elongate-oval, small, on a short, 

 delicate duct. The epididymis is convoluted throughout its length. 

 Polygyra Postelliana, Bland. 



Charleston, S. C. Mr. W. G. Mazyck. 



Genitalia as in P. auriculata. (See Leidy in Binne3''s Terr. 

 Moll. U. S. I.) 



Jaw as usual in the genus: over 12 ribs. Lingual membrane 

 (pi. y I., fig. z) as in P. Hazardi. (See Proc. Acad. ISTat. Sci. Phila., 

 1875, pi. viii., fig. 5.) The change from laterals to marginals is 

 xevy gradual, and formed without the splitting of the inner cutting 

 point. There are 21 — 1 — 21 teeth with about 7 laterals. Extreme 

 marginals are shown in 6. 

 Polygyra Dorfeuilleana, Lea. 



A dried specimen long preserved in my cabinet furnished the 

 lingual membrane here described. 



Teeth (pi. YL, fig. u) 20—1—20, with 9 laterals, the tenth tooth 

 having its inner cutting point bifid. Base of attachment subequi- 

 lateral of central and lateral teeth. All the teeth of same type 

 as in P. auriculata. (See Ann. Lye. of Nat. of N. Y., XL, pi. xviii., 

 fig. E.) 

 Polygyra avara, Say. 



Banks of St. John's River, Florida. Mr. Chas. Dury. 



It is with peculiar satisfaction that I give these details, as it is 

 one of our rarest species. 



Jaw as usual in the genus, with over 12 ribs. (See Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1875, p. 201.) 



Lingual membrane as usual in the genus (see same, p. 202). 

 The change from laterals into marginals is shown in the 9th tooth, 

 which is the first having a bifid inner cutting point. There are 

 17—1—17 teeth. PI. YL, fig. y. 

 Caracolus sagemon, Beck. 



Gonave Island. Prof. Linden to Mr. Bland. 



On pi. B, fig. GO, I figure the dentition of the specimens described 

 in full by Mr. Bland in Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist, of N. Y., XL, 197 

 (1875). 




ISVG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Mesodon major, Binn. 



This species (or form of albolabris) was found b}' me near Aiken, 

 S. C, but still larger specimens, at Macon, Ga., in the City Ceme- 

 ter}', b}' Mr. H. S. Crooke. The form seems to inhabit a narrow 

 strip of territory- east of the mountains from Abbeville, S. C, to 

 the Gulf of Mexico. The largest specimen I have ever seen is 48 

 mill, in its greater diameter. 



The jaw, lingual dentition, and genitalia agi'ee Avith those of 

 albolabris. Fig. i, of plate YI., represents the genital system of 

 one individual examined, in which the ovai'y is very small, and the 

 genital bladder unequally' divided, both points differing from those 

 of other individuals examined. This shows us we should allow 

 some latitude of variation in the details of the genital S3-stem of 

 an}' given species. 



Aglaja fidelis, Gray. 



Oregon. Mr. 0. B. Johnson. 



On pi. YI., fig. p, I give a more satisfactorj' figure of the geni- 

 talia of this species than formerly published b}- me. The organ x 

 in the specimens recently examined was greatly developed. The 

 organ is a dart sac, which contained a dart of the tj-pe described 

 below under Arionta Mormonum. 



Arionta Mormonum, Pfr. 



Tulumne Co., California. Mr. A. "W. Crawford. 



PI. YI., fig. 8, represents the genitalia. The general appearance 

 is that of A. fidelis^ as formerly described by me (see below), but 

 there is an additional accessoiy organ {q.), of use unknown to me. 

 The organ, ?•, is a dart sac. The dart is short, stout, straight, 

 swollen at its base, and with an enlarged acutely pointed apex 

 (pi. YI., fig. k). Upon the vagina, above the insertion of the penis 

 sac, is a ridge-like process (s.) containing in three individuals 

 examined one round, and one oblong calcareous nodule (pi. YI,, 

 fig. j). I suspect the organ 14, noticed in fidelis (Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1873, pi. I., fig. 5) corresponds wilh this process. 



Jaw as usual in Arionta: T ribs. 



Lingual membrane (pi. YI., fig. b) as usual in Arionta. Teeth 

 50 — 1 — 50, with 15 laterals, the 16th tooth having its inner cutting 

 point bifid. 

 Arionta sequoicola, J. G. Coop. 



Santa Cruz, California. ^\v. H. Hemphill. 



The genital system (pi. YI,, fig. r) is like that of Arionta Traski. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18*76. 



(See Ann. Lye. of Nat. Hist, of X. Y., XL, pi. YL, fig. iv.) The 

 accessory bulb upon the vaginal prostate is somewhat differently 

 situated in tliis species. The extreme length of the genital sj'stem 

 is eightj'-seven millimetres. 



Jaw and lingual membrane alread}' described. (See Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., ISli, pi. XIY., fig. 5.) 

 Arionta Californiensis, Lea. 



Monterey. Mr. H. Hemphill. 



Jaw already described. 



Lingual membrane with 53 — 1 — 53. Teeth as usual in the 

 genus (see above). The side cusp and cutting point appears on 

 the 9th tooth. The inner cutting point of the 2&th is bifid, so that 

 there are about 24 laterals (pi. YL, fig. w). 



The genitalia are as in A. Nickliniana already described. 



Arionta Dupetithouarsi, Desh. 



Montere}-. Mr. H. Hemphill. 



Jaw as usual in the genus, with four, separated, stout ribs. 



Lingual membrane with 50 — 1 — 50 teeth. There are no distinct 

 side cusps or cutting points on the centrals or first laterals, though 

 there is a lateral bulge on the large cutting point. The distinct 

 side cusp and cutting point appears on the ninth tooth. Tliere 

 are about nineteen laterals, the twentieth tooth having its inner 

 cutting point bifid. The marginals are as usual in the genus (pi. 

 YL, fig. u). 



Genitalia as in A. TrasH (1. c). The penis sac is more slender 

 and has no retractor muscle in the single individual examined by 

 me. The oviduct is greatly convoluted. 

 Glyptostoma Newberryanum, W. G. B. 



San Diego, Gal. Henry Hemphill. 



Genitalia (pi. YL, fig. h). a; is a dart sac or prostate gland. 

 Bulimulus Dormani, W. G. B. 



Port Orange, Florida. Mr. Chas. Dury. 



Jaw (pi. YL, fig. M, the central portion only) as usual in the 

 genus, arcuate, thin, transparent, ends acuminated, anterior sur- 

 face with about 54 plait-like ribs. The figure gives only a portion 

 of the jaw. The upper median ribs are ver3- oblique. 



Lingual membrane as in B. laticinctus, primularis, pajjyraceus, 

 etc. Teeth 19— 1—79. PI. YL, fig. hh. This is the first species of 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 191 



BuUmulus noticed within the United States having this peculiar 

 type of dentition. 



Genitalia figured on pi. YI., fig. N. Penis sac ver}^ long and nar- 

 row, ending in a flagellum: A-as deferens entering at about the 

 anterior fourth of its length. Genital bladder oval, on a long, 

 narrow duct. No accessory organs. 



Bulimulus Edwardsi, Mor. 



Lake Titicaca. Prof. Alex. Agassiz. 



Jaw low, arcuate, ends rapidly acuminated, blunt: anterior sur- 

 face with over ten distant ribs, some of the usual Helix type, others 

 like the plait-like processes, common in CyJindreUa., Bidimulus, 

 Geeotis^ Aviphihulima., etc. 



Lingual membrane (pi. YI., fig. dd) with 44 — 1 — 44 teeth. Cen- 

 trals of the usual HeJicinse t3-pe, tricuspid: laterals like centrals, 

 unsj-mmetrical, and consequently bicuspid. The change to mar- 

 ginals very gradual, and formed b\^ the simple modification of the 

 laterals, without any splitting of the inner cutting point. 

 Succinea ovalis, Gould, not Say. 



Burlington, New Jersey. 



Teeth over 60 — 1 — 60. Fig. h represents extreme marginals 

 (pi. YI., fig. A). 



Jaw with smooth anterior surface and prominent median pro- 

 jection to the cutting edge. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE YI. 



g. A. Lingual dentition of Succinea ovalis. 



g. B. " " Arionta Mormonura. 



g. C. " " Zonites inornatus. 



g. D. " " " fuliginosus. 



g. E. Onchidella borealis. 



g. F. Genitalia of Limax Hewstoni. 



g. G. Jaw of Carelia bicolor, 



g. H. Genitalia of Glj-ptostoma Xewberryauum. 



g. I. " Mesodon major. 



g. J. Lingual dentition of Turricula tuberculosa. 



g. K. Dart of B. 



g. L. Calcareous concretions of B. 



g. M. Jaw of Bulimulus Dormaui, central portion. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Fig. K Genitalia of M. 

 Fig. 0. " Carelia bicolor. 



t. Testicle. 

 ep. Epididj^mis. 

 0. Ovaiy. 

 ovid. Oviduct. 

 g. h. Genital bladder. 

 p. s. Penis sac. 

 r. p. Retractor penis. 



r. Retractor. 

 pr. Prostate gland?. 

 V. d. Vas deferens, 

 m. o. Male orifice. 

 /. o. Female orifice. 

 e. t. External tegument. 

 Fig. P. Genitalia of Aglaja fidelis. 

 r'ig- Q* " Stenotrema monodon. 



Fig. R. " Arionta sequoicola. 



Fig. S. « B. 



Fig. T. Lingual dentition of Micropbj-sa incrustata. 



h. Marginals. 

 Fig. U. Lingual dentition of Arionta Dupetitbouarsi. 

 Fig. Y. Genitalia of Binneya notabilis. 

 Fig.W. " Arionta Californiensis. 



Fig. X. " Limax occidentalis. 



h. Inner marginals. 

 Fig. Y. Lingual dentition of Polygyra avara. 

 Fig. Z. " " " Postelliana. 



Fig. AA. " " Macrocyclis sportella. 



Fig. BB. Jaw of E. 

 Fig. CC. Lingual dentition of G. 

 Fig. DD. " " Bulimulus Edwardsi. 



Fig. EE. " " E. 



h. Liner marginals. 

 c. Outer marginals. 

 Fig. FF. Lingual dentition of Polygyra Derfeuilleana. 

 Fig. GG. " " Caracolus sagemon. 



Fis.HH. " " M. 




18t6.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 193 



October 3. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirt^'-six members present. 



A paper entitled " On the Extrusion of the Seminal Products in 

 Limpets, with some Remarks on the Phyllogeuy of Docoglossa," 

 by W. H. Dull, was presented for publication. 



Bituminous Sedimerd of the Schuylkill River. — Prof. Leidt 

 remarked tliat he had been recently invited by Dr. Josua Lindahl, 

 Secretar}- of the Swedish Commission, who had at his command a 

 small steamer, to make the experiment of dredging in the Schu^'l- 

 kill River. He had accepted the invitation in the expectation of 

 finding abnndance of the smaller aquatic animals, such as he had 

 sparing!}- detected on stones near shore below low-water mark, 

 just below Fairmount dam. The dredging was tried near the 

 mouth of the Schuylkill, but no living thing whatever was drawn 

 up, as the mud and sand were black and saturated with bitumi- 

 nous oil. This latter fact was unexpected, and would appear to 

 illustrate the mode of formation of more ancient bituminous shales. 

 The refuse of the cit}- gas-works, and probably of some coal-oil 

 refineries, run into the river. The oils appear to have an affinity 

 for the particles of clay carried down the river, and, precipitating, 

 become bituminous sediments at the bottom. Ir. the same manner 

 oils, from a profusion of decomposing animals, and probably also 

 plants, supplied the sedimentary muds of ancient shales. Many 

 even of the lowest plants contain abundance of oil, and it may be 

 observed in such forms as Yaucheria, Diatomes, etc. 



Fertilization in Beans. — Mr. Meehan observed that in all the 

 discussions on the injurious effect of close breeding in flowers, 

 and the consequent theories of cross fertilization, nearly all the 

 arguments were drawn from structure. We are asked to note 

 certain arrangements, and then to believe that certain results must 

 follow. He preferred to watch the plants in their actions, and in 

 the results of their actions Avhen excluded from external agencies, 

 believing it the more practical wa^' and preferable to the theoretical 

 one. One of his friends who t!iouo;ht he was wrong in limitinor 

 insect agency to a few plants, and in questioning the injury fi'om 

 vegetable close breeding, had been giving for some months past a 

 series of articles in proof of his side, which was the generall}' ac- 

 cepted view. Of course the position of his friend was entitled to 

 all the benefit to be derived from structural arrangement; but 

 when he referred to actual behavior in plants, it came within the 

 province he had marked out for himself. In the last paper there 

 was an instance of this kind. After noting how the flowers of 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



Phaseolus, the common bean, were formed; and the supposed im- 

 possibility of fertilization b}' its own pollen, the paragraph con- 

 cludes as follows : " The machinery tells its own storj* plainly. 

 The confirmation is familiar to all who know beans and their 

 facility of mixing when different varieties are grown together." 

 Mr. M. said he claimed to "know beans" for thirty years past ; 

 and had grown large numbers of varieties side bj-^ side, saving 

 seed from them and re-sowing, and had never known a single case 

 of admixture from this close pi'oximit}'. The A'arious Ivinds of 

 both Beans and Peas in cultivation were in all cases evolutions, 

 or, as would be commonly said, " sports or accidents," or were 

 the results of actual manipulations by skilful seed raisers. He 

 had no hesitation in saying that his friend was utterly wrong in 

 his impression of the facts; that he did not "know beans;" and 

 the fact that beans would not mix, though so close together, and 

 so freely visited by bees, was an excellent argument against in- 

 stead of for the generall}' received theories of insect cross fertili- 

 zation. 



Fruit of Akebia quinata. — Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited a 

 fruit from a plant grown by Mr. W. Canby, of Wilmington, Del., 

 who had three fruits from two old plants, and they were the first 

 fruits he had heard of, after twenty 3- ears of extensive cultivation 

 in America. In China and Japan, where it is a native, it is 

 regarded as an edible fruit, and, inferring from its having a ver- 

 nacular name, Fugi-Kadsura-Akebi, the fruit is probably common 

 there. Attempts had been made to induce fruitfulness here by 

 cross fertilization, but they had failed. It was not, therefore, a 

 question of fertilization, but one of nutrition. The fruit is as large 

 and of the appearance of a papaw (Asimina triloba), but opens on 

 one side as in a follicle of Asclepias, disclosing the long column 

 of parietal seeds. Mr. M. pointed out by it the ditference between 

 the Lardizabilaceous and Menispermaceous orders. 



Note on Phallus foetidus. — Mr. Meehan exhibited specimens of 

 what he supposed to be a A'ariety of this fungus. It was ver}' rare 

 with him, the last time it had appeared on his grounds was seven 

 years ago. Its brilliant scarlet color and strong fetid odor would 

 have attracted attention had it been in existence during that time. 

 It was doubtful if any existed in the vicinity, and it was an inte- 

 resting question whether tlie spores or m^-celium had been in the 

 ground all that while, or whether it had been recently brought as 

 a spore in the atmosphere. But the main point he wished to draw 

 attention to was the attraction the fetid plant had for meat flies. 

 They abounded on tlie plants. The common toad plant of green- 

 houses {Sfapelia variegata) attracted these in the same way, and 

 it was said to be a scheme to aid tlu; plant in cross fertilization, 

 the stench attracting tlie flies, and inducing them to deposit o<igs 

 under the impression it was rotten meat; though what benefit it 




18*76.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



was to the fly to be thus fooled had nevei' been made clear to him. 

 In the case of this fungus, however, it would hardly be contended 

 that the flies had been deceived for the purposes of fertilization, 

 nor could he understand why " in-and-in breeding," if bad for 

 phsenogams, should not be injurious to a fungns as well. 



October 10. 



Mr. Yaux, Yice-President, in the chair. 



Thirt3''-two members present. 



Destructive Coleoptera. — Dr. Le Conte mentioned that a small 

 Coleopterous insect had recently proved quite destructive to car- 

 pets in houses in Albany and neighlioring towns in New York. 

 Mr. J. A. Lintner had sent him some specimens of the larvie a few 

 weeks ago, which proved to belong to some species of Dermestidte, 

 of unfamiliar form. Recently Mr. Lintner succeeded in rearing 

 one of the larva?, and sent the imago for examination. It was 

 immediately recognized as Anfhrenus acrophularise^ a very com- 

 mon European species, not before reported as occurring in the 

 United States. Herbst, Kiifer, vii. 328, mentions that the larvre 

 destroy natural historj'^ collections, clothes, furs, leather, and edi- 

 bles (Esswaaren). 



Remarks on the Structure of Precious Opal. — Prof. Leidy stated 

 that Signor A. G. Arevalo, proprietor of one of the opal mines in 

 Queretaro, Mexico, had recentl}' called upon him, and exhibited 

 a large collection of cut opals of A-arious kinds, comprising the 

 milk-white opal with a rich harlequin display of colors, the less 

 valued transparent glassy variety with rich hues, and the red fire 

 opal of different shades, also displaying the play of colors of the 

 spectrum. From among tliem he had selected several which he 

 exhibited to the Academy as illustrating in an unusually distinct 

 manner the structure of the precious opal. 



One of the specimens is white opal, emiting on one side from 

 the free surface a brilliant display of colors. These are reflected 

 from facets ranging from \ to 1 mm. in breadth, and of irregular 

 polyhedral form, as represented in figure 1. 

 The facets are distinctly separated b}^ fis- 

 sures, which, in the polishing of the stone, 

 \ have become more or less filled with dirt, 

 /' and they appear to form the surface of a 

 mosaic pavement laid on a basis of amor- 

 phous opal, of which the other side of the 

 specimen consists. The facets are distinctly 

 " ' striate ; the strife being parallel on tlie same 



Fjfr 1 facet, but chnn^ing in direction on the differ- 



ent ones, though pursuing the same general 

 course over comparatively large areas, as represented in the same 




196 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1876- 



Fig. 2. 



figure. The strife, or tubes as Sir David Brewster considered 

 them to be, vary in degree of fineness ; some apparently' being 

 double or more the thickness of others. He had not attempted 

 to measure them accurately, but they appear to be about the size 

 of the Hues in the ordinary micrometer eye-piece of the microscope. 

 There appeared usually to be about 4 or 5 striffi in the space of 

 5\jth of a mm. 



Another specimen is a dark carnelian-hued fire-opal, which 

 exhibits in directly- looking upon it, just beneath the surface, a 

 patch of round or oval spots of a deeper hue. The spots range 

 from :^th to 1 mm. in breadth, and are separated b}'^ interspaces 

 from |th to |th of a mm. The appearance 

 of a portion of the specimen magnified is 

 represented in figure 2. The spots apijear as 

 lenticular disks with finely striated surfaces; 

 the strife being parallel, and on the different 

 spots pursuing nearl}^ the same course. 

 Viewed at a certain angle, thej^ mainly emit 

 a rich golden-green hue. 



In another opaque white specimen, emitting 

 rich hues, the striated facets are more or less 

 isolated by amorphous opal, and vary much 

 in size, as represented in the magnified figure 3. The smaller 

 facets are generally irregularly oval ; the larger ones appear to 

 be made up of an aggregate of the smaller 

 kind. Over comparativel}' large areas, 

 the strife of the different facets pursue 

 nearly the same direction, but in contigu- 

 ous areas they even pursue quite opposite 

 directions, as represented in figure 3. On 

 the larger patches, also, as I have at- 

 tempted to represent them, the strife are 

 not perfectl}' continuous, but appear to be 

 rather interrupted in bands. On another 

 part of the same opal the brilliant patches would appear to per- 

 tain to cylindroid or fusiform rods of the striated opal imbedded 

 in amorphous opal, as represented in figure 4. 

 The strife in these rods appear to be arranged in 

 regular parallel layers, so that either longitudinal 

 or transverse sections give rise to the appearance 

 of parallel strife. 



From these specimens precious opals would 

 appear to l)e constituted of an aggregation of 

 particles of a striated or finely tubular structure 

 which may be imbedded in a basis of more 

 amorphous opal. When isolated by the latter, 

 the particles may appear as lenticular disks, round or oval balls, 

 or cylindrical rods with rounded ends and of variable length. 

 When closely aggregated, these particles become more or less 



Fiff. 4. 




18T6.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 



19T 



polj'hedral. The particles in section in any direction present a 

 striated appearance, and, according to tlie varjing fineness of the 

 striae, and their inclination, emit the varied hues for which the 

 precious opal is so much admired. 



Observations on Rhizopods. — Prof Letdy stated that last July, 

 in the sphagnum swamps of Tobyhanna, Pocono Mt., Monroe Co., 

 Pa., he noticed an abundance of a Rhizopod which he thought he 

 had not previously seen, and which he at first supposed to be an 

 undescribed species, but which lie now viewed as a variety of 

 Hyalosphenia ligata. From this, as previouslj' described, it 

 differs in the test being of a pale sienna color, and perhaps of 

 greater thickness, but otherwise is like it. The test is compressed 

 P3'riform, with the length and breadth nearl}' or about equal, and 

 the thickness one-half. The lateral borders are obtusely rounded. 

 The mouth is transversely oval. The sarcode is colorless, and 

 attached to the inside of the test by diverging threads. The 

 pseudopods are usuallj' from two to three. Measurements, .08 

 mm. long and broad, and .036 thick, with the mouth .02 broad 

 and .008 wide. Others varied from .06 long and .08 broad, to .092 

 long b3' .064 broad. 



In observing the Pocono variety of Hyalosphenia ligata, and 

 the beautiful and well-marked species Hyalosphenia papilio, he 

 detected an important point of structure which previously' had 

 escaped his notice. In the active condition of these, and other 

 Difflugians, they are seen with one or more pseudopods extended 

 from the mouth of the test, to the margin of which the sarcode is 

 attached, as well as by diverging threads to various points of the 

 interior of the test. The interval between the body of the sarcode 

 and the interior of the test is occupied with water. The extent of 

 the interval increases with the increase in number and extent of 

 protrusion of the pseudopods, and also varies 

 according to the degree of emptiness or reple- 

 tion with food of the sarcode body. When 

 the pseudopods are withdrawn into the mouth 

 of the test, the mass of the sarcode expands 

 in a corresponding ratio, and the threads of 

 attachment to the inside of the test contract 

 in length. The intervening water appears to 

 be dis|)laced through small apertures of the 

 lateral borders and fundus of the test, which 

 exist in numbers usuall}' from two to half a 

 dozen or more, as represented in the figure. 

 While speaking of Rhizopods, he would 

 Hyaiosphenia papiiio. ask the indulgence of the Academ}' to listen 

 The arrows are directed to somc remarks on recent observations on 

 to two of the apertures ^,,g Xwihxt^ of scvcral speclcs of Ama-ba. 



through which the water ^^ r. .1 • p i 1 i • 1 1 



...«„.= TThon ti<. «nirr,oi Ouc of thc specics of AuioGba which he 



escapes when tlie animal ' 



retracts its pseudopods. had most commonly seen, he took to be the 




198 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



Amceba verrucosa of Ehrenberg, with which the A. natans of 

 Perty, and the A. terricola of Greef, appeared to him to be 

 synonj-raous. This species he had found in many places: in the 

 crevices of the brick pavement in the yard attached to his residence, 

 in briciv ponds, in the ooze of the rocky shores of the Schuylkill 

 River, in sphagnum swamps, in marsh mud, etc. It is remarkable 

 for its sluggish character; and in appearance reminds one of a 

 little pile of epithelial scales, or fragment of dandruff from the 

 head. Appearing quadrately oval or rounded, transparent, and 

 more or less wrinkled, or marked with delicate wavy lines ; the 

 pseudopods rise in short obtuse mamraillarj^ eminences or wave- 

 like ridges, the summits of which are composed of transparent 

 ectosarc, while the central portion of the body is occupied by a 

 thin, pale, diffused, and finely granular entosarc. This contains 

 one or more vesicles, usually one, which very slowly enlarges, and 

 then less slowly collapses. In addition, as part of the structure, 

 an oval granular nucleus is sometimes visible. The food contents 

 generally appear not to be abundant, and often the creature 

 appears to be empty of food altogether. The character of its food 

 is the same as with other species of Amoeba. It not unfrequently 

 feeds on Difllugians. In a specimen from sphagnum water, from 

 Yineland, N. J., last August, he observed an individual, about the 

 ■^-^oi a millimetre, contnining a DifBugia and a Trinema together. 

 As observed by him, the species ranges from ^j'- to ^ of a milli- 

 metre in diameter. 



On the morning of August 27, from some mud adhering to the 

 roots of Sparganium^ obtained the day previously in a nearly 

 dried-up marsh, at Bristol, Pa., he obtained a drop of material for 

 examination with the microscope. After a few moments he 

 observed an Amoeba verrucosa, nearly motionless, empty of food, 

 with a large central contractile vesicle, and measuring ^K of a 

 millimetre in diameter. Within a short distance of it, and moving 

 directly towards it, was another and more active Amoeba, the 

 species of which he was not positive. It was, perhaps, the one 

 described by Dujardin as A. Umax, by which name, for the present 

 purpose, it may be called. As first noticed, this Amoeba was 

 limaciform, | of a millimetre long, with a number of conical 

 pseudopods projecting from the front broader end, which was ^\ of 

 a mm. wide. The creature contained a number of spherical food 

 vacuoles with sienna-colored contents, a large diatome filled with 

 endochrome, besides several clear vacuoles, a posterior contractile 

 vesicle, and the usual granular entosarc. The A. Umax approached 

 and came into contact with the motionless A. verrucosa. Moving 

 to the rio;ht, it left a long finger-like pseudopod curved around its 

 lower haff. and then extended a similar one around the upper half 

 until it met the first pseudopod. After a few moments the ends of 

 the two pseudopods actually became connate (tlie second time he 

 had observed this phenomenon), and the A. verrucosa was inclosed 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



iu the embrace of the A. Umax. The latter assumed a perfectly 

 circular outline, and after awhile a nniformlj^ smooth surface; but 

 the central contractile vesicle remained in the same condition, nor 

 did he once observe it enlarge or collapse. The A. Umax now 

 moved awa^' witli its new capture, and after a short time what had 

 been tlie head end contracted, became wrinkled and villous in 

 appearance, while from wliat had been the tail end a number (ten) 

 of conical pseudopods projected. The A. vermicosa assumed an 

 oval form, and the contractile vesicle became indistinct, without 

 collapsing. Moving on, the A. Umax became more slug-like in 

 shape, measuring about \ m. long, by -^-g m. broad. The A. verru- 

 cosa now appeared inclosed in a large oval clear vacuole, was 

 constricted so as to be gourd-shaped, and had lost all traces of its 

 contractile vesicle. Subsequently, the A. verrucosa was doubled 

 upon itself; and at this period, the A. Umax discharged from one 

 side of the tail end, the siliceous case of the diatome, which now 

 contained only a shrivelled cord of endochrome. Later the 

 A. verrucosa was broken up into five spherical granular balls, and 

 these gradually became obscured and apparently diffused among 

 the granular contents of the entosarc of the A. Umax. At one 

 moment the five granular balls derived from the A. verrucosa 

 appeared to be contained in three vacuoles, and the A. Umax had 

 a more contracted and radiate form, and then measured yW m. in 

 diameter. 



The observation, from the time of the seizure of the A. verrxicosa 

 to its digestion, or disappearance among the granular matter of 

 the entosarc of the A. Umax, occupied seven hours. 



From naked Aracebse, the test protected rliizopods were no 

 doubt evoh-ed, and it is a curious sight to observe them swallowed, 

 home and all, to be digested out of their home, just as the con- 

 tents of diatomes are digested. It was also interesting to observe 

 the cannibal Amreba swallowing another, and appropriating its 

 structure to its own, just as we might do a piece of flesh, com- 

 pletely, without there being any excrementitious matter to be 

 voided. 



Habits of Formica rufa. — Mr. McCook, speaking of the habits of 

 Formica rufa, stated that the ants descending the tree-paths, with 

 abdomens swollen with honey-dew (called by him Repletes), were 

 arrested at the foot of the trees by workers from the hill seeking 

 food. Galleries communicating with the hill, opened at these points, 

 around and in which numbers of ants were huddled engaged in 

 drawing or bestowing rations of honey-dew. Similar commissary 

 stations were found under the stones near b}'. The replete reared 

 upon her hind legs, and placed her mouth to the mouth of the pen- 

 sioner, who assumed the same rampant posture. Frequently two, 

 sometimes three pensioners were thus fed at once by one replete. 

 Apparently the workers engaged in building at the liill and galleries 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



had thus resorted to these feeding places to obtain ordinarj^ food, 

 in the same manner that queens, males, and young ants receive 

 it, viz., by disgorgement from the abdomens of repletes. The 

 latter commonly 3'ielded the honej'-dew complacently, but some- 

 times were seized and arrested by the pensioners, occasionally 

 with great vigor. 



A number of experiments were described leading to the con- 

 clusion that there was complete amity between the ants of a large 

 jjortion of the field, embracing some 1600 hills and countless mil- 

 lions of creatures. Insects from hills widely separated always 

 fraternized completely'' when transferred. A number of ants 

 collected from various hills fraternized in an artificial nest, har- 

 moniously building galleries and caring for the cocoons. 



It was found that ants immersed in water when replaced upon 

 the hills were iuvariablj^ attacked as enemies; the assailants, being 

 immersed, were themselves in turn assaulted. A number of ex- 

 periments were made whicli indicated that the bath had tempora- 

 rih' destroyed the peculiar odor or other px'operty by which the 

 insects recognized their fellows. 



The variety of F. rufa wdiich had colonized in vast numbers on 

 the cliflTat Rockland opposite the steamboat landing, as observed 

 for the last three summers, were found that morning to have aban- 

 doned the place. No trace of them could be seen in the vicinit3^ 

 The crowds of human beings wdio occupied the spot during the 

 late International regatta had evidently dispersed the republic. 



October It. 



The President, Di'. Ruschenberoer, in the chair. 



Thirty-six members present. 



A paper entitled " Descriptions of some Vertebrate Remains 

 from the Fort Union Beds of Montana," b}"^ Edward D. Cope, was 

 presented for publication. 



October 24. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberoer, in the chair. 

 Thirty-seven members present. 



On Wehs of New Species of Spiders. — Mr. McCook called 

 attention to several new species of spiders, with the aIcw to 

 illustrate the existence of mixed habits in construction of the 

 web. The first of the two great groups of the Aranete, viz., the 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 201 



Sedentary Spiders, consists of the four sub-orders, (1) orb- 

 weavers {Orhitelariee)^ (2) line-weavers {Retitelarise)^ (3) tube- 

 weavers {Tuhitelariae)^ and (4) tunnel-weavers {Territelarise). 

 The first web, that of Epeira triaranea^ n. sp., exhibits quite 

 distinctly the characteristics of the first three of the above 

 sub-orders. The orb, which is the primary characteristic of 

 the snare of this arachnid, is partially' inclosed by a web having 

 quite as distinctl}^ the characteristics of the line-weavers. This 

 secondary snare extends several inches above the orb. At the 

 top is a tertiar^"^ snare characteristic of the third sub-order. It is 

 a mortar-shaped tube, of white, close textured silk, opening down- 

 ward. Within this the spider dwells, clasping with its fore-claws 

 a thick thread or free radius which is attached to the centre of the 

 orb. He had not been able to determine whether the secondary 

 snare is used, as with the line-weavers, in taking prey, or is pos- 

 sibly a simple protection against h3'meuopterous enemies. The 

 tube or tent is quite frequent in connection with the orb-weaver's 

 snare, but the mixture of the line-weaver's habit is rare, having 

 been observed in but one other Epeiroid, Epeira labyrinthea of 

 Hentz, the architecture of which was described. A possible 

 exception was noted in the web of Argiope faHciata^ one of the 

 most beautiful and interesting of our indigenous spiders. In three 

 instances the orb-shaped web of A. fasciata was found protected 

 on either side by a cone-shaped mass of right lines. In all other 

 webs of the same species observed, this mixed habit was not in- 

 dicated. Possibly it may be in the course of development. It 

 was suggested that the use of this auxiliary web might be to 

 protect the snare from destruction, or to save the animal from 

 enemies. A like tendency to mixed webs was observed in a new 

 spe6ies of tube-weaver named provisionally Tegenaria philoteichos. 

 It is found in vast numbers upon the brick walls and fences of 

 our city. Its web shows distinctly the characteristics of the orb- 

 weaver's snare in the radial lines issuing from the opening or 

 openings of the central tube. These lines are overlaid upon each 

 other, and with the adhering street dust, present the appearance of 

 rude lace-work. The outside of the wall seems curiously to be 

 preferred. The apparent affinity of this spider to Ergatis benigna 

 of Europe, and Theridion morologum Hentz, was shown b}' photo- 

 graph and description. The latter named spider much resembles 

 T. philoteichos in appearance, although uniformly of a far lighter 

 hue. Its web, cocoon, and general habits greatly differ. The one 

 appears to be a creature of the city, the other of the fields. 



14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OP THE A 'ADEMY OF [1876. 



October 31. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair, 



Thirt3'-five members present. 



A paper entitled " Descriptions ortebrate Remains chiefly 



from the Ashley Phosphate Beds i "North Carolina," by Jos. 

 Leidy, M.D., was presented for publication. 



Self-fertilizat' n in M^ntzelia ornata. — Mr. ThoMAS Meehan 

 referred to an o ■~"' ,'ade during liis remarks on tliis plant 



some weeks ag xower which had produced a perfect cap- 



sule under a gau^ to exclude insects, might yet not produce 



perfect seeds. The sule was now ripe, and the seed perfect. 



Direct Growth Force in Roots. — Mr. Meehan spoke of the direct 

 growth-force in roots, as illustrated by some specimens of the 

 White Hickory (Carya tomenlosa) exhibited. The Hickories 

 during the first few years of tlieir growth developed far more 

 beneath than above the surface. He had seen Pecan Nuts 

 {Carya olivaeformis), with weak stems not two feet liigh, have 

 tap roots six feet long. In the one year hickory- now exhibited, 

 the tap root was three times the length of the stem. In one plant, 

 however, the young radicle, instead of pusliing through the cleft 

 made by the separated shell, had been directed into the shell, and in 

 ?t.- f-uitless effort to penetrate the wall, had lingered so long, that 

 th . ..'|)per portion had grown so large as to prevent egress. The 

 root, therefore, instead of making a slender growth of eighteen 

 inches long, had simi:)ly made a bulb of about three quarters of an 

 inch in diameter Avitli the shell of the nut attached to it. 



Interpretation of varying Forms Mr. Tnos. Meehan said that 



William Rartiam, in the last century, had found forms of Lirio- 

 dendron tiilipifera on the Schuylkill River, as he had been informed 

 b}' his son-in law, with entire leaves, Init only this year had he suc- 

 ceeded in discovering them. Some of these leaves he exhibited. 

 He observed that years ago, such discoveries had an interest in 

 themselves. Now the botanist expected to find entire leaved forms 

 among kinds usually' lobed, or lobed ones among the entire leaved 

 class; the only value now in these discoveries is in any lesson 

 they might teach. As a rule, he hesitated to refer to the unpub- 

 lished observations of others, preferring that the discoverers 

 should in their own good time and wa}', report what they had found ; 

 but hoped to be pardoned on this occasion, for saying that on a 

 recent visit to the Academy, the distinguished botanist Dr. Kngel- 




18T6.] NATURAL SC^'^.NCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



mann had pointed out that some oaks had lolied leaves even in early 

 infancy, wliile others had entire leaves, but that those which had 

 the early lobed leaves assumed more entire leaves when mature, and 

 those wliich had entire leaves when young-, had lobed leaves when 

 fully grown. In many oaks which he had examined he found Dr. 

 Engelmann's observation correct, and that it extended to many 

 other plants. Th'^ niu.ierries generally had lobed leaves in their 

 younger years, but when nture the leaves were uniformh' entire; 

 and this was especially wi lown in the case of the Brousso- 

 netia. In young Japan H* ^-suckles the leaves were quercl- 

 form or variously lobed, while at maturit}- the tendenc}' to union 

 was often remarkable. In the common iv}- the halbert-shaped 

 leaves of youth, alwa3-s gave place to lol)eless for^is when of fruit- 

 ing age. But it was in cruciferous p 'trS- ' the difterences 

 were best seen. Here l3-rate or pinnatiti \ infancy often 



gave place to entire ones as the plant g .lile there were 



numberless instances in which entire juvenv ,c leaves gave place 

 to pinnatifid ones in adolescence. Howe l, the point for the 

 present evening was, that there was often avast difference between 

 the leaves of a plant's earl}' life, and their form in advanced age. 

 In Coniferffi he said this was well known. During tlie first few 

 months from seed, the different species in their several subdivi- 

 sions were so nearh' alike, that it was almost imj^ossible to tell 

 any one apart till a little age had brought divergence from the 

 original tj-pe. He exhi])ited some 3'oung Thujas to illustrate this. 

 The early Thujas all had cricoid leaves. In the forms which 

 ■we knew as Arbor Yitres, the condition which we were familiar 

 with was the secondary form. In these the leaves, which in 

 juvenescence were free and heath-like, had become almost wholly; 

 united with the branches. But there were cases where the y> g 

 Arbor Yitffis had never had power to leave their earh' condition. 

 The}' were the analogues of what we know in human nature as 

 imbeciles or feeble minded ; and of this class were many so-called 

 ^^Betinef'poras," Biota Meldem^is, and many Junipers and Thujas. 

 He had known the Thuja ericoides of gardens remain fifteen 

 years in this infantile state, and then only one of thousands to 

 regain the pure adolescent or fan-like arbor vitte form. In all 

 these cases it is important to notice that a comparative feebleness 

 of growth, and an absence more or less total of all disposition 

 to produce flowers, go with these continuously juvenescent char- 

 acters. With the appearance of sexual characters, there is a 

 change of form ; and, in i)roportion as this change is the more 

 marked, is the relative productiveness. The White Oak {Quercus 

 alba) which, during its first year, lias entire leaves, has them lol»ed 

 at maturit}' ; and the trees which have them the most deeply lobed 

 are the most productive in acorns. 



He found these oljservations to hold good in the entire leaved 

 Liriodendron. During the first year all tulip trees had entire 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



leaves, or at least more or less so in comparison with those which 

 they afterwards assume. These large trees with entire leaves had 

 merelj' retained their juvenescent form. The other attendant 

 characters of juvenescence were also present. The tree from 

 which the large entire leaf exhibited was taicen had no signs of 

 ever having borne seeds. In one place he found two trees which, 

 from surrounding circumstances, he should judge were probably 

 about the same age, and in every circumstance relating to nutvi- 

 tion equally favored, one with very deeply cut leaves even to 

 the most feeble branch was covered with seed cones, and was 

 tliirteen feet in circumference. The other had leaves almost entire, 

 with but few fruit, and a trunk of only eight feet round. 



The danger was that in discussing laws of variation in connec- 

 tion with the origin of species we may overlook these sexual and 

 physiological changes. If one never having seen a Baltimore 

 oriole should notice particularly the brilliant plumage of the male 

 bird, and, without noticing the sex, compai'e it with the very dif- 

 ferent looking female bird, he would be very apt to think he had 

 found a " missing link" in a grand evolutionary chain. There 

 were many differences in animals which were recognized as having 

 their origin in obscure sexual laws, as well as many more unre- 

 cognized but probable ; and he believed these cases were far more 

 numerous in vegetation, and the}' would have to be carefully 

 eliminated from consideration in any stud}^ on the origin of spe- 

 cies or the evolution of form in relation thereto. 



Edwin A. Barber, H. F. Whitman, and Dr. W. Forwood, U. S. 

 A., were elected members. 



Col. W. L. Ludlow was elected a correspondent. 

 The following papers were ordered to be printed :^ 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



ON THE MARINE FATJNAL EEGIONS OF THE NORTH PACIFIC; AN 

 INTRODUCTORY NOTE TO THE REPORT ON ALASKAN HYDROIDS, BY 

 MR. CLARK. 



BY W. H. BALL, U. S. COAST SURVEY. 



Mr. Clark's paper is the first of Avhat is hoped Avill form a series, 

 by different specialists, on the collections of marine invertebrates, 

 obtained by me, with the co-operation of my party and other per- 

 sons interested, dui'ing a period extending over nearly ten years. 

 The first explorations in that region were begun in 1865, under 

 the direction of the late lamented Robert Kennicott, and b}^ the 

 courteous co-operation of the ofBcers of the Western Union Tele- 

 graph Compan3\ Since the death of Mr. Kennicott the direction 

 of the work has devolved upon me. By far the richest portion of 

 the invertebrate collections has been obtained between 1811 and 

 1815, while engaged on hydrographic work for the U. S. Coast 

 Survey. During the whole period mentioned the work has been 

 aided by the earnest co-operation of the Smithsonian Institution, 

 a circumstance to which is due a large part of our success. 



Among those persons to whom we owe thanks for assistance in 

 forming the collections, and to whom I beg to express m}- sense 

 of indebtedness, are particularly- to be mentioned Capt. E. E. 

 Smith, of San Francisco, whose energetic dredgings in the Arctic 

 Ocean have furnished nearly all our material from that region ; 

 Mr. Bernhard Bendel, formerly stationed at Unalashka ; and 

 Messrs. W. G. Hall, E. P. Herendeen, A. R. Ilodgkins, Sylvanus 

 Baile}^, Mark W. Harrington, Marcus Baker, and Wm. M. Noj'es, 

 attached for shorter or longer periods to the Coast Survey party 

 under mj' charge. To the officers directing the U. S. Coast Survey 

 I have been indebted for heartj' co-operation. 



In April, 1873, I gave a short notice of the principal faunal 

 regions into which the information gained in the field seemed to 

 permit the division of the coast of Alaska. Mr. Clark's independ- 

 ent reasoning from a study of the hydroids alone, confirms in 

 every particular the opinions then expressed, and information 

 gained since 1873, seems to offer only additional confirmation of 

 the views held bj' me at that time, with some interesting additions. 



A brief statement of these views will be in place here. 



The coast of Alaska and northwest America from Monterey, 

 California, north and west may be divided into three faunae. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



I. The Oregonian Fauna. 



This extends from Monterej' to the Shumagin Islands. 



II. The Aleutian Fauna. 



The range of this province is from the Shumagins westward 

 throughout the Aleutian chain, and northward to the winter line 

 of floating ice in Bering Sea; a line extending westward from 

 Cape Newenham toward and grazing the Pribiloff group, and 

 thence to the western termination of the Aleutian chain, bounded 

 b}^ the depth of the water in Bering Sea, extending probabl}' to 

 no greater depth than five hundred fathoms, and entirely- cut off 

 from the adjacent coasts of Asia. 



III. The Arctic Fauna. 



This well-recognized fauna passes in water over five hundred 

 fathoms in depth indefinitely southward on the ocean bottom. By 

 the shores it is limited b}^ the winter line of floating ice, or water 

 of the temperature of thirt^'-two Fahrenheit at the surface, for a 

 certain proportion of the 3'ear. 



The species belonging to this fauna creep southward along the 

 shores to the northernmost islands of Japan on the west coast and 

 Cape Newenham on the east coast of the ocean of this region. 

 Manj' of them extend even further south ; as the species of Arctic 

 habitat have a greater facility of adaptation to other than their 

 normal conditions than those of an}' otlier existing fauna. 



The material derived from the coasts of N. W. America, from 

 Cook's Inlet south and east, indicate a series of Arctic colonies 

 in favored localities, the future exploration of which offers a labor 

 of the highest interest. These colonies are situated where the 

 depth of water, the drippings of glaciers, and the high and adja- 

 cent shores of tiie Great Archipelago, combine to reduce the 

 temperature of the water below its apparently normal isotherm. 

 Cook's Inlet aflbrds one of them, one exists in tlie Gulf of Georgia, 

 and others only await further exploration. 



In these colonics we find strictly Arctic species, such as nor- 

 mally abound in the vicinity of ley Cape; islands of polar life 

 surrounded by shoaler water; forms altogether alien to them. In 

 the absence of information as to dei)th and tem}ieratures, collec- 

 tions made at such localities would indicate to the student only 

 inextricable confusion of different fauna?. 



The species of each fauna are not, of course, rigidly bound 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 20T 



within the limits above set forth. According to their A'arious 

 degrees of adaptability to the surroundings, they creep south or 

 north from their own proper region, until their limit of tempera- 

 ture is reached. 



Nevertheless the course of currents, the changes in depth and 

 the variation in temperature, are so far co ordinate that the limits 

 herein mentioned may be taken as approximatel}' exact for the 

 mass of species. 



I would here reiterate the view published by me in 1868, that 

 temperature, and temperature alone, is the great factor in deter- 

 mining the limits of marine faunje. Depth, salinit}', specific 

 gravit}-, motion or quietness in the water, and geological character 

 of the shores and sea bottom have their influence in determining 

 the distribution and individual characters of particular species or 

 small groups of species ; but for marine faunae, all my field obser- 

 vations lead to but one conclusion, that they are absolutely de- 

 pendent on the water temperatures. It is hardly necessar}- to point 

 out, in view of recent deep sea researclies, that the ocean valley's 

 which so sharply separate adjacent faunre, are in such cases valley's 

 of depressed temperature as well as depressed sea-bottom. Leav- 

 ing out strictlj' littoral or shore forms, restricted ])y the nature of 

 their food to ver3^ moderate depths, no case is known to me iu 

 which a deep sea valley, not containing colder water than that on 

 either side of it, separates two great marine faunal provinces. 

 Local subfaunoe are not here considered. 



The geological formation supplies the elements of plant life ; 

 the phytophagous mollusks are distributed where they can obtain 

 their favorite food. All formations supply some algre, and the 

 zoophagons mollusks can find some food almost anywhere. They 

 are therefore the best indices of faunal provinces in their own sub- 

 kingdom. Something similar is probably true of other groups of 

 marine animals. The mollusks are here referred to as the group 

 with which I have the greatest familiarity. A striking instance 

 of this local distribution is afforded by granitic areas. On the 

 Alaskan coast these appear to afford special opportunities for the 

 growth of the red or chlorospermous algre. In granitic districts 

 the}' are quite abundant compared with what we know of their 

 occurrence in sandstone or basaltic regions. Here also we find a 

 number of species which prefer red algfe as food, and a notable 

 tendency to rosiness iu the coloring of shells and annelids. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T6. 



Other details of a similar nature are reserved for future publica- 

 tion. 



In regard to tlie collection of hydroids it ma}^ be remarked that 

 the collection illustrating the Arctic province was verj- small, and 

 by no means sufficient to represent it fairly. 



The Oregonian province is also less fully represented than is 

 desirable. For the Aleutian region the collection is tolerably full, 

 though it cannot be doubted that many of the more minute or 

 delicate forms were overlooked. However, Mr. Clark's paper 

 forms a desirable contribution to our knowledge of a little known 

 region, and must be regarded as a considerable advance on our 

 previous information. It is to be expected that a fuller investiga- 

 tion of the Arctic province will reveal many more circumpolar 

 species, and in the Oregonian fauna a fuller representation of those 

 already- known from the Californian coast. 



The types of the species mentioned are deposited in the National 

 Museum in charge of the Smithsonian Institution at Washington; 

 a series has also been placed in the Peabody Museum of Yale 

 College, and in the Museum of the University of Michigan. 




PKOC.A.N. S.PHILA..1876. 



PLATE .YII. 



S.F.CIark.dsl. 



Sinclair i Sot\, Plioto-iith. 



Clark on Alaskan Hydroid^ 





FROC. A.N. S.PHIL A.18 76. 



PLATE Mil. 



S.F. Clark, del. 



Sinclair i Sor^ , Flioto-liih-. 



Clark on Alaskan Hydxoids. 





PROC.A.N. S.PHILA.1876. 



PLATE DC. 



S.F.Clark, del. 



x-rlSoiL E'h.otc- 



Clark on Alaskan Hydxoid.^ 





PROG. A.N". S.PHIL A.l87o. 



PLATE XI. 



S.r. Clark. del. 



Sinclair 1 Sar. , pftr.to -li'i. 



Clark on Alaskan Hydroids 





PRO C . A . N. S . PHIL A.IS 76 . 



PLATE Xn. 



S.P.Clark, del 



? mrlair i S on . Ploto -litt . 



Clark on Alaskan Hydroids 





PROC. A.N. S.PHTLA.1876. 



PLATE Xni. 



.F.Clark, del. 



Sinclair i S o r. , Pt o to -lith . 



Clark on Alaskan Hydxoids 





PROC.A.N. S.PHILA.187 



PLATE XIV: 



Clark on Alaskan Hyciroid,^ 





PROG. A.N- S.PHTLA.1876. 



PLATE XVI. 



^^^n ^ 



S.i'. Ciark.dei. 



SiiulairiSoT. PiLoto-UtlL. 



Clark on Alaskan Hydroids. 




r 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



REPORT ON THE HYDROIDS COLLECTED ON THE COAST OF ALASKA AND 

 THE ALEUTIAN ISLANDS, BY W. H. DALL, U. S. COAST SURVEY, AND 

 PARTY, FROM 1871 TO 1874 INCLUSIVE. 



BY S. F. CLARK, YALE COLLEGE, NEW HAVEN. 



The Hydroids collected on the Alaskan coast by Mr. Dall, rep- 

 resent the fauna more or less completely from the Sea Horse Islands 

 southwest of Point Barrow in latitude about 71° north, to Kyska 

 Harbor 52° north, and from St. Paul Island, Pribiloff group, longi- 

 tude 170^ west, and Kj'ska Harbor 182° west to Sitka in longitude 

 135° west. This region includes a coast line of about 4000 miles 

 naturally divided into three great divisions. The Arctic region, ex- 

 tendingfrom Point Barrow to Cape Prince of Wales, washed by the 

 Arctic Ocean ; the western region, including all of the western coast 

 of Alaskafrom Cape Prince of Wales to the Aleutian Islands, borders 

 on Bering Sea, and the southern region, extending from the Aleu- 

 tian Islands to Sitka, washed by the North Pacific. As the north- 

 ern region is onlj' represented by two species, one from the Sea Horse 

 Islands and Cape Prince of Wales, and one from Icy Cape, we have 

 no opportunity of comparing the Hydroid-fauna of that region 

 with those of the other two. The region most abundantl}' repre- 

 sented in the collection is the southern, and it is here also that we 

 find the most strongl}' marked fauna; for of the fort3'-two species 

 in the collection, twentA'-four are from the southern coast east of 

 the Shumagin Islands, and of these twenty-four, fourteen are 

 peculiar to this southern region. From the shores of the Aleutian 

 Islands, from Unimak to Kyska, there are fifteen species repre- 

 sented, six of which are not found elsewhere, and four are found 

 both to the northward in Bering Sea, and to the eastward in the 

 Northern Pacific. The collections from these two regions (the 

 Aleutian Islands, and the southern Alaskan coast, from the Shu- 

 magin Islands east to Sitka) contain thirt}' species, or fully three- 

 fourths of the known species from Alaska. While this result is 

 in part due to the fact that the greater amount of collecting has 

 been done in these regions, it also indicates a richer fauna, for 

 some important genera of the southern fauna are not represented 

 north of the Aleutian Islands. 



The most strongly marked barrier on the coast, as indicated by 




210 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[18Y6. 



the hydroids, is the Shumagin Islands on the southern shore, 

 which is apparent!}^ the dividing line between the northern and 

 southern forms. As in all the divisions of nature, there is, of 

 course, no sharp line of demarcation, but a number of the species 

 of each group have a range extending into the region of the other. 



Of the forty-two species represented, sixteen have been recorded 

 from the English coast, and of this latter number, all but two are 

 found on the shores of New England ; of the remaining twenty- 

 six, one is identical with a New England form and the rest are 

 new. The great majority belong to the group Thecaphora of 

 Hincks, there being but four representatives of the Athecata. 



The following table contains a list of all the Hj^lroids in the 

 collection, and gives their range upon the Alaskan coast : — 



THECAPHORA. 



Obelia longissima Hiucks (Pallas). 

 Clytia Jolmsloni Hincks (Alder). 

 Campanularia denticulata, sp. uov. 

 " circula, sp. nov. 



" turgida, sp. nov. 



" compressa, sp. nov. 



" speciosus, sp. nov. 



" urceolata, sp. nov. 



" intogra Macgillivray. 



Gonothjroa hvalhia Hincks. 

 Lafoea pocillum ? Hincks. 

 " gracillima Sars. 

 " dumosa Sars. 

 " fruticosa Sars. 

 Cal3'cella syringa Hincks (Linn.). 

 Coppinia arcta Hincks (Dalyell). 

 Halecium muricatum Jobnst. 



" ? plamularioides, sp. nov. 

 " scutum, sp. nov. 

 Diphasia mirabilis Verrill. 

 Sertularia filicula E. and S. 

 " similis, sp. nov. 

 " cupressoides, sp. nov. 

 " variabilis, sp. nov. 

 " inconstans, sp. nov. 

 " tliniarioides, sp. nov. 



Sertularella tricuspidata Hincks. 

 " rugosa Gray (Linu.). 



" polyzonias Gray. 



Iliuliuk Harbor, Unalaslika. 



Lituya Bay to Popolf Straits. 



Port Etches. 



Port Etches. 



Port Etches. 



Shumagin Islands. 



Shumagin Islands. 



Lituya Bay. 



Lituya Boy to Semidi Islands. 



Semidi Islands to Xuuivak Island. 



Nunivak Island. 



Sitka Harbor to Shumagin Islands. 



Port Etches. 



Shumagin Islands to Kyska Island. 



Shumagin Islands. 



Shumagin Islands. 



Unalashka. 



Nunivak Island. 



Semidi Islands to Unalashka. 



Port Moller to Shumagin Islands. 



Shumagin Islands to St. Paul Island. 



Hagmeister Island. 



Shumagin Islands to Hagmeister Id. 



San Miguel Id., Cal., to Nunivak Id. 



Unalashka. 



Chignik Bay to Nunivak Island. 



Port Etches to Kyska Harbor. 



Shumagin Islands to Nunivak Island. 



Port Etches to Nunivak Island. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 211 



Sertularella robusta, sp. nov. Shumagin Islands. 



" pinnata, sp. nov. Lituj^a Bay to Unalaslika. 



Thuiaiia cylindrica, sp. nov. Port Moller to Hagmeister Island. 



" robusta, sp. nov. Hagmeister Island to Seahorse Ids. 



" pluniosa, pp. nov. Nunivak Id. to Ic}' Cape, Arctic Sea. 



" turgida, sp. nov. Lituya Bay to Kyska Island and 



Hagmeister Island. 



" gigantea, sp. nov. Kj'ska Island to Hagmeister Island. 



3Iacrorhyucliia Dallii, sp. nov. Akutau Pass. 



ATHECATA. 



Rhizonema carnea, sp. nov. St. Michael's, Norton Sound. 



Tubularia indivisa (Linn.). St. Michael's. 



Tubularia borealis, sp. nov. Hagmeister Island. 



Eudeudrium pygmffium, sp. nov. Akutan Pass. 



It is interesting to note that of tlie ten species of Campanu- 

 lariidae represented, one onl}' occurs to the norlhwai'd of the Aleu- 

 tian Islands; and as this one, viz. Gonothyrea hyalina, is re- 

 corded bj Hindis from the Shetland Islands, bj' Sars from Lofoten, 

 and by Professor Verrill from Eastport and St. George's Bank, 

 it is apparently a northern or cold-water form. Both the species 

 from the Arctic Sea belong to the genus Thuiaria, and of the five 

 species of this genus in the collection, but one of them occurs 

 soutli of Bering Sea. The genus is essentially a northern cold- 

 water one. Ilincks says of T. thuia, " it is a prevalent northern 

 form, ranging to the North Cape," and Allman describes some 

 species from very deep water, that were taken on the Porcupine 

 expedition. The thickness of the perisarc seems to protect them 

 from the dangers incident to living in cold deep waters. 



A very noticeable feature, and a very general one, is the re- 

 markable stoutness and large size of the specimens, especially in 

 the Se.rtulariidse. 



The main points of interest then derived from tlie study of 

 this collection are — the strong indication of a faunal limit at the 

 Shumagin Islands; the H3'droid-fauna to the south of that point 

 being chiefly characterized b3' the large number o^ Campanalariidee, 

 while the fauna to the northward is almost entirely destitute of 

 that famil}' and contains a larger number of Thuiarise ; tlie luxu- 

 riant growth and the robustness of nearly every species; the 

 specimens of those species that are also found ui)on the New Eng- 

 land shores being of larger size and stouter form than the eastern 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



specimens ; thirdly, that while the fauna is quite distinct, as is 

 indicated by the twenty-three new species, it has j^et some simi- 

 larities with the New England and British faunse, which are shown 

 in the fifteen species that are common to those three regions ; 

 fourthly, the small number of Athecata, which may be partly 

 accounted for by the possibility of their having been overlooked, 

 owing to the small size and obscure places of growth common to 

 so many of the species of this gi-oup. And, lastly, the small 

 number of species that are common to the Alaskan coast and the 

 western shores of the United States from Yancouver Island south- 

 ward. Of the twenty-three species recorded from the latter region 

 one only, Lafoea dumosa, is known from the coast of Alaska. 



Descriptions of the Species. 



THECAPHORA. 



Obelia longissima, Hincks (Pallas). 



This species is the most abundant member of the famil}'^ in the 

 collection, but, although some of the specimens are 150 mm. in 

 length, and have a very luxuriant gi'owth, a diligent search has 

 failed to reveal an}' gonaugia. It is possible that these forms may 

 prove to be different from 0. longissima, but the trophosomes 

 agree so closely in ever}' particular, that I think it quite safe to 

 credit them to this species. 



Hab. Iliuliuk, Unalashka ; 3 fathoms, shingly bottom.. Ilnalash- 

 ka; 6 fathoms, November 11th, among sticks and beach-refuse, 

 washed along the bottom. Unalashka; 80 fathoms, sand, and 

 shells. Unalashka; 9 to 15 fathoms, September 10th. Una- 

 lashka; 15 fathoms, gra}' sand. 

 Clytia Johnstoni ? Hincks (Alder). Plate ix., fig. 12. 



The collection contains specimens of a creeping campanularian 

 from three localities which I have decided to call G. Johnstoni, for 

 the present, at least. The gonangia are not present upon any of 

 the specimens, and when known will enable us to decide whether 

 these trophosomes have been placed in the right genus. The 

 specimens from Lituya Bay correspond very closely with the New 

 England forms of this species, while those from tlie other locali- 

 ties are more deeplj' campanulate, and some of them are much less 

 tapering; the pedicels var}' greatly in length and in the amount 




1816.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



of annulation which they bear. The character of the denticulation 

 varies but little, if any, and tlie hydrothecte, which show the 

 greatest variation in size and shape, are connected by intermedi- 

 ate forms. 



Hah. Lituya Bay ; 9 fathoms, sand3'-mud. Port Etches ; 5 to 8 

 fathoms, gravel and stones, May 30th. Shumagin Islands, Popoff 

 Straits; 6 fathoms, rocky, July. 



Campanularia denticulata, sp. nov. Plate vii., fig. 4. 



Trophosome. Ilj-drocaulus simple, creeping, giving origin to the 

 pedicels at irregular intervals ; pedicels of very variable length, 

 from five to ten annulations at the base, and from three to eight 

 at the base of the hydrothecae, usually bearing but one hydro- 

 theca, occasionally branched and bearing two. Hydrothecoe deeply 

 campanulate, tapering from the distal end, quite slender near the 

 base, rim ornamented with about fifteen large, acutely-pointed 

 teeth. Gonosome. Gonangia unknown. 



Hab. Port Etches, Alaska; 10 to 18 fathoms, claj'ey mud. 

 Campanularia circula, sp. nor. Plate vii., fig. 3. 



Trojjhosome. Hydrocaulus erect, compound, composed of a 

 number of slender united tubes, unbranched. Hydrothecoe large, 

 deeply campanulate, rounded at the base, rim ornamented with 

 from ten to twelve large denticulations, some of which are square- 

 cut, others have slightly rounded edges, and are very shallow ; 

 the pedicels supporting the hydrothecae are long and slender, a 

 single distinct annulation at the base of the hydrothecas, the re- 

 mainder of the pedicel more or less twisted, arranged in verticils 

 of four to six pedicels, at regular intervals on the stem. Gono- 

 some. Gonangia unknown. 



Hab. Port Etches, Alaska; 12 to 18 fathoms, clayey mud. 



This well-marked form is represented by a single small speci- 

 men, which, unfortunatel}', is destitute of gonangia. Its nearest 

 ally is C. verficillata, Lamk, from which it may be distinguished 

 by the size and form of the hydrothecae, and by the ornamentation 

 of the rim. 



Campanularia turgida, sp. nov. Plate viil., fig. 8. 



T?'ophosome. Hj'drocaulus simple, creeping, giving rise, at 

 short intervals, to long pedicels bearing the hydrothecae. Hydro- 

 thecae large, turgid, rounded at the base, the rim ornamented with 

 from twelve to sixteen roundly pointed or sometimes square- 




2U 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1876. 



topped teeth, bovne on long, slender pedicels with a wavy outline, 

 ov occasional!}' a slight twist in them, a single well-marked annu- 

 lation at the base of each h3-drotheca, and from three to six annu- 

 lations at the base of each pedicel. Gonosome. Gonangia borne 

 on short pedicels consisting of five or six annulations springing 

 from the creeping stem, flask-shaped, largest in the middle, taper- 

 ing bnt slightly to the rounded base, produced into a neck dis- 

 tally, aperture terminal, discoidal. 



Hah. Port Etches, Alaska; 12 to 18 fathoms, mud. 

 Campanulari compressa, sp. nov. Plate viii., figs. 5, 6. 



Trophosome. Hydrocaulus creeping, simple, giving origin to 

 the pedicels at irregular intervals. Ilydrothecte large, deeply 

 campanulate, tapering to the base, the walls ver}- thick, especially 

 at the base, where they project inwards, forming a sort of dia- 

 phragm, upon which the pol3'p rests, rim entire ; pedicels of 

 medium length, with a single well-marked annulation at the base 

 of the hydrothecjB, and usually two or three constrictions just 

 beneath the annulation, not annulated at the base. Gonosome. 

 Gonangia turgid, sessile, or with a xevy short pedicel, largest at 

 the distal end, rounded at the base, very much compressed late- 

 rally. 



Hab. Yukon Harbor, Shumagin Islands; 6 to 20 fathoms, sand 

 and rocks, July 7th. Growing on a piece of Laminaria. 



This form belongs in the same group with C. calyculata, Hincks, 

 from which it may be distinguished by the gonangia, and by tlie 

 base of the hj-drothecae. 

 Campanularia speciosa, sp. nov. Plate ix., fig. 11. 



Trophosome. Hydrocaulus simple, creeping, twisted, bearing 

 the pedicels at irregular intervals; pedicels short, more or less 

 annulated, bearing eacli a single hydrotlieca. H^-drothecje very 

 large, deeply campanulate, urceolate, tlie rim ornamented with 

 about ten shallow teeth, and witli an internal ridge extending 

 from each tooth for about one-fourth the distance, to the base of 

 the hydrotlieca. Gonosome. Gonangia unknown. 



Hab. Yukon Harbor, Big Koniushi, Shumagin Islands; G to 20 

 fathoms, gravel, Jul}- 7th. 



This is tlie largest creeping Carapanularian known, and is as 

 noticeable for its beauty as for its size. The intrathecal ridges 

 and the character of the denticulations make it a well-marked 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2l5 



form, readily distinguishable, without the gonangia, from any 

 known species on the American coast. 



Campanularia urceolata, sp. nov. Plate viii., fig. 7. 



Trophoi^ome. Ilydrocaulus simple, creeping, rather stout, with 

 a wav3' outline, giving origin to the pedicels at irregular inter- 

 vals; pedicels short, never more than twice the length of the 

 hydrotheccC, usually annulated or twisted throughout, and alwa3's 

 one annulation at the base of eacli hj'drotheca more distinctly 

 marked than the rest. HydrothecjB large, deep, urceolate, 

 rounded or slightly tapering at the base, with an internal support 

 in the base of the hydrotheca upon which the polyp rests, rim 

 ornamented with from thirteen to eighteen large rounded teeth. 

 Gonosome. Gonangia small, fusiform, occasionally a trifle obo- 

 vate, orifice small, terminal, discoidal, supported on A^ery short 

 pedicels consisting of but two or three annulations. 



Hab. Litu3-a Bay, Alaska; 9 fathoms, sandy mud. 

 Campanularia Integra, Maegillivray. Plate ix., figs. 9, 10. 



This species is represented b}'- two fine specimens, which are in 

 an excellent state of preservation, and have three or four fully 

 developed gonangia. The latter are a little larger tlian usual. 



Hab. Seraidi Islands; 15 to 25 fathoms, gravel, June 10th. 

 Lituya Bay ; 9 fathoms, sand}^ mud. 



The specimen from the Semidi Islands was growing upon a 

 stem of Sertularella tricuspidata. 



Gonothyrea hyalina, Hincks. Plate vii., figs. 1, 2. 



This is apparenll}!' one of the most common species of the 

 family CampanuJariidse on the Alaskan coast. Yer}- good speci- 

 mens were obtaiued from five different localities; those from the 

 Seraidi Islands being of especial value, as they bear cxtra-capsular 

 medusoids at the distal ends of the gonangia. The medusoids 

 vary in number from two to six, are slender and pyriform, which 

 is probabl}', in part, owing to the contraction due to the alcohol. 



Hab. Semidi Islands, Alaska; 15 to 25 fathoms, gravel, June 

 10th. Port Moller, Aliaska Peninsula; 13 fathoms, gravel; IT 

 fathoms, sand ; August. Five miles southwest of the west cape 

 of Nunivak Island; 30 fathoms, sand. 



Lafoea pocillum 1 Ilincks. Plate xi., fig. 21. 



There are two specimens of creeping forms of Lofoea in the 

 collection, to the examination of which I have given considerable 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



time. Number 1 has short, stout hyrlrothecne of variable shape, 

 borne upon short pedicels of from three to six annulations, the 

 latter showing a good deal of ditference in the stoutness, some 

 being half as wide as the h3'drothecfE, others not more than a 

 third ; most of the hydrothecjs are urceolate, like Hincks's figures 

 of L. pocillum ; others are regularly cjdindrical, like Hincks's 

 figure of L. parvula, and between these two are forms which 

 make a connecting series between the urceolate and cylindrical 

 types. Number 2 has the hydrothecse of about the same width, 

 but longer, the pedicels average a little longer, and it agrees 

 more closely' with L. pocillum tlian the more variable form of 

 number 1. The perisarc of both these forms is xery thick, and 

 dark-brown colored. 



Hab. Number 1 is from Cape Etolin, Nunivak Island, Alaska; 

 8 to 10 fathoms, stony. Number 2 is from Bering Sea, 5 miles 

 west of west cape of Nunivak ; 30 fathoms, sand. 

 Lafoea gracillima, Sars. Plate xii., fig. 24. 



Very fine specimens of this delicate form were collected, which 

 show no variations from the specimens found on the eastern shores 

 of North America. Gonangia unknown. 



Hab. Coal Harbor, Shumagin Islands, beach; July 15th. Sitka 

 Harbor; gravel and mud, 15 fathoms, May 1st. 

 Xafoea dumosa, Sars. Plate xii., fig. 2.3. 



This widely distributed species is also a member of the Alaskan 

 Hj'droid Fauna. The specimens are larger and moi'e robust than 

 those from the eastern shores of North America, and the hydro- 

 thecse are more deeply merged in the stem. It is very singular 

 that we are still obliged to record, for this common and widely 

 distributed species, gonangia unknown. . 



Hab. Port Etches; 12 to 18 fathoms, clayey mud. 

 Lafoea fruticosa, Sars. Plate xii., fig. 22. 



This appears to be the most common of the four species of this 

 genus in the collection. It differs only from the New England 

 specimens in being more robust. Gonangia unknown. 



Hab. Kyska Harbor; 10 fathoms, rockj'^, Jul}^ 15th. PopoflF 

 Straits, Shumagin Islands; near edge of reef, fathoms. Yukon 

 Harbor, Big Koniushi, Shumagin Islands; 6 to 20 fathoms, sand 

 and rocks, July 7th. 




187G.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21T 



Calycella syringa, Hincks (Linn.)- Plate xii., fig. 25. 



A very fine specimen of this species occurs on a colony of Lafoea 

 gracillima. It is in very fine condition, and has the gonangia 

 with extracapsular pouches in considerable abundance. 



Hah. Coal Harbor, Shumagin Islands; beach, J ulj^, about the 

 15th. 



Coppinia arcta, Hincks (Dalyell). 



A \Qvy tine specimen of this peculiar form was collected at the 

 Shumagin Islands. The h3drothecte are ver}' long, and most of 

 them curved near the distal end. Growing on the stem of a 

 colony of Lafoea gracillima. The largest h3-drothec.'B are 2 mm. 

 long. 



Hah. Coal Harbor, Shumagin Islands; beach, July 15th. 

 Halecium muricatum, Johnston (E. and S ). Plate x., fig. 15. 



A single specimen of this species with the characteristic gon- 

 angia, was collected on Unalnshka beach. The trophosome is 

 about 50 mm. in height, but is in very poor condition, none of the 

 hydrothec.ne being present. The gonangia, however, are very 

 abundant, are irregularly arranged on the basal half of the com- 

 pound stem, and are in a good state of preservation. 



Halecium (1) plumularioides, sp. nov. Plate x., figs. 16, 17. 



Trophosome. Hydrocaulus erect, simple, straight, divided by 

 transverse joints into internodes of considerable length, regularly 

 branched, and with a few annulations at the base ; brandies 

 arranged alternately on opposite sides of the stem, one to each 

 internode, having their origin in a small shoulder-like process just 

 below each joint, divided usually into regular internodes, though, 

 in some cases, short internodes occur between the longer ones. 

 Hydrothecfe arranged uniseriall}', usually one to each internode, 

 partly adherent to the stem, or entirely free, shallow, tapering 

 sliglitl}' to the base, with an entire rim. 



Gonosome. Gonangia unknown. 



Hah. Cape Etoliii, Xunivak Island; 8 to 10 fathoms. 



Height of largest specimen 20 mm. 



I refer this species to the genus Halecium provisionally, for, the 

 gonangia being absent, and the hj-drothecfe having a different 

 arrangement from any known Halecium^ make it quite doubtful 

 whether it belongs in this genus. It is the most delicate species 

 in the collection. It closely resembles, in many particulars, the 

 15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1816. 



Plumidarias, from which it is separated on account of the absence 

 of nematophores. 



Halecium scutum, sp. nov. Plate x., figs. 13, 14. 



Trophowme. Hydrocaulus erect, compound, exceedingly stout, 

 rough, with au irregular outline, attached b}' a thick mass of in- 

 terlaced stolons, much and irregularly branched ; branches of two 

 kinds, the larger ones stout, black, and like the main stem undi- 

 vided by joints, tlie smaller are light horn-color, sub-erect, short, 

 divided into long internodes, each giving origin to a single branch- 

 let ; branchlets divided l)^' oblique joints into short, stout, wedge- 

 shaped internodes, each of which bears at least one h^'drotheca, 

 often two. Hydrothecffi tubular, margin everted, arranged alter- 

 natel}^, and occasionally a second one is borne in the axil of the 

 first. Gonosome. Gonangia very large, obovate, with the orifice 

 on one side ; the latter varies much in position, occurring anywhere 

 fi'om the middle to near the distal end; it has an irregular outline, 

 and is made very ornamental by the thickening of the perisarc 

 around it ; there is a thickened border around the upper edge, 

 and below the orifice is a shield-shaped thickening in which are 

 two ellipsoidal markings, where the chitiu is only of the usual 

 thickness. 



Height of largest specimen 150 mm. 



Hub. Uualashka; beach, low water, after gale, September. Coal 

 Harbor, Shumagin Islands ; low water, April; Gonangia abundant. 

 Coal Harbor, Shumagin Islands ; Gonangia abundant. Unalashka ; 

 beach. Ma}' 1st; Gonangia abundant. Semidi Islands, Alaska; 

 15 to 25 fathoms, gravel, June 10; Gonangia. Sanborn Harbor, 

 Shumagin Islands; Gonangia abundant 



The specimen from which the aljove description is taken is a 

 remarkably stout, coarse form, more closely resembling Hinck'a 

 figure of Eudendrium i^ameum, Pallas (vide frontispiece to Hinck's 

 British Hydroid Zoophytes, vol. i.), than any h3-droid that I am 

 accjuainted with. The diameter of the mass of stolons at the base 

 is from 15 mm. to 25 mm. The largest stem is G mm. thick at the 

 base, and tapers verj' gradually to the distal end. 



The variation which this species shows in the mode of growth 

 is so remarkable that I will mention some of the most divergent 

 forms. The specimens from Sanborn Harbor, Shumagin Islands, 

 consist of tufts of liglit horn-colored stems about 50 mm. in 

 height, rather slender and compound only for a ver^- short dis- 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



tance at the base, branches A'ciy short. Gonangia present, and 

 exactly like those of tlie typical form. Another stj-le is from 

 20 mm. to 60 mm. high, from dark horn-color to black, stem stout, 

 coarse, branches numerous and short. Gonangia very abundant ; 

 has a crowded look; specimens of this form are from Unalashka; 

 beach. Semidi Islands ; 15 to 25 fiithoms, gravel. Coal Harbor, 

 Shuraagin Islands; beach, low water, after a gale in September. 



Diphasia mirabilis, Verrill. Phate xiii., fig. 36. 



American Journal of Science, iii., vol. v. p. 9, December, 1872. 

 Connecticut Academj^ of Arts and Sciences, vol. iii.. Part I., p. 53. 



Two specimens of this remarkable form are the onl}'^ representa- 

 tives of this genus in the collection. The specimens are in very 

 good cojidition, and show no variation from Professor Yerrill's 

 type specimen from Le Have Bank, with which I have compared 

 them. Gonangia unknown. 



Hah. Hagmeister Island, Bering Sea; beach. Popoff Straits, 

 Shumagin Islands. 

 Sertularia filicula, E. and S. Plate xii., fig. 30. 



This species grows very luxuriantl}', and is apparently quite 

 common on the beaches. There is a good supply of it in the col- 

 lection, mostly from Unalashka beach. It grows there in very 

 dense masses from 50 to 80 mm. in height, is usually of a dark 

 horn-color, and attached to algoe or sponge. The gonangia vary 

 somewliat from the figure given by Hincks, but not enough to 

 warrant a separation of tliis form from llie British. The Alaskan 

 form has the gonangia sessile, largest at the distal end, tapering 

 to the base, aperture terminal, small, discoidal. In the British 

 form the}' are more fusiform or are pear-sliaped, largest near the 

 middle, with a short tubular aperture. The tropliosomes agree 

 perfectlj'. 



Hah. Unalashka; beach after gale, September. Coal Harbor; 

 Popoff Straits, Shumagin Islands. St. Paul Island (Pribilotf 

 group); 9 fathoms, sand, Jul}- 21. Hagmeister Island ; beach. San 

 Miguel Island, California. Nunivak Island ; 8 to 10 fatlioms. ,Con- 

 stantine Harbor, Amchitka Island; 6 to 10 fathoms, sand and 

 stones, July 20. Chirikoff Island; beach. 



Sertularia similis, sp. nov. Plate xv., fig. 56. 



Trophosome. Hydrocaulus erect, simple, slender, straight, 

 jointed, pinnately branched, internodes of equal length and bear- 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



ing three hj^clrothecaa and a branch; branches short, slender, di- 

 vided by transverse joints into short internodes, bearing two, 

 sometimes three pairs of hydrothecse, occasionally bearing one or 

 two branchlets, constricted at the base; branchlets jointed like 

 the branches, and like them constricted at the base, diverging at 

 a wide angle from the branches. Hydrothecse opposite, tubular, 

 curved strongly outwards with a bilabiate orifice, the broad side 

 being turned towards the stem ; on the main stem there are three 

 on each internode, a pair placed opposite to each other, and one 

 in the axil of the l)ranch ; on the branches and branchlets they 

 are arranged oppositel}'. Gonosome. Gonangia unknown. 



Heiglit of largest specimen, 85 mm. 



Hah. Hagmeister Island; 8 to 15 fathoms, gravel. 



This is a very interesting species, as it combines some of the 

 characters of three other species of the genus. In mode of growth 

 it approaches S. cupressina, in the shape of the hydrothec?e it is 

 similar to S. argentea, and in the arrangement of the latter it is 

 like S. pumila. Considerable variation is shown in the extent to 

 which the hj-drothecte curve outwards ; upon some of the branches 

 the mouth opens at right angles to the stem, while upon others 

 they open upwards. 



Bertularia cupressoides, sp. nov. Plate xiii., fig. 37. 



Trophosome. Hydrocaulus simple, erect, slender, two or three 

 annulations at the base, divided by oblique joints into internodes 

 of variable length, pinnatelj^ branched ; branches arranged alter- 

 nately, an even number to an internode, attached to the stem by 

 quite a prominent process, annulated and slender at the base, 

 the broader side facing the stem; the basal portion is sharply 

 curved outward, the distal portion is nearly straight, and lies 

 about at right angles with the stem, bearing but very few branch- 

 lets ; branchlets short and diverging at a wide angle from the 

 branches. n3^drothecffi tubular, deeply immersed in the stem, 

 curving slightly outwards ; orifice bilabiate, with the broader 

 side facing the stem, arranged snb-alternatel}' upon the branches 

 and branchlets, none upon the main stem. Gonosome. Gonangia 

 unknown. 



Height of finest specimen, 80 mm. 



Hah. Shumagin Islands, Popoff Straits; 6 fathoms, rocky bot- 

 tom, Jul^y. Port MoUer, AliasUa Peninsula; 13 fathoms, sand, 

 AuiTust. 




18t6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



This species is quite similar to S. cupressina in some respects, 

 but maj' be distingiiished bj^ the entire absence of hj^drothecse 

 upon the main stem, and b}' having an even number of branches 

 to an internode ; the branches are also usually stouter. 

 Sertularia variabilis, sp. nov. Plate xiv., figs. 40 to 48. Plate xv., figs. 49, 50. 



Trophosome. Hydrocaulus erect, simple, stout, flexuous, di- 

 vided b}' transverse joints into short internodes, usually bearing 

 a pair of hydrothecae, those giving origin to a branch bearing one 

 h3-drotheca on one side and two h3'drothecre and the branch on 

 the other, regularl}^ branched ; branches arranged alternatel}' on 

 opposite sides of the stem, short, stout, suberect, occasionally 

 bearing a few short branchlets; the latter usuall}- divided into 

 regular internodes, bearing each a pair of hydrothecoe, sometimes 

 occurring undivided, H3-drothec?e large, subalternate, the widest 

 portion, the lower two-thirds, is immersed in the stem, the upper 

 portion is narrower and curved strongly outwards and upwards ; 

 aperture large, discoidal, rim entire. Gonosome. Gonangia of 

 two forms ; Xo. 1 is p3-riform, tapering rapidl3'' to the base, ses- 

 sile ; orifice large, terminal, discoidal, ornamented with a nunil)er 

 of chitinous teeth which project downwards into the gonangia; 

 Xo. 2 is obovate, sessile, aperture terminal, large, provided with 

 an internal collar, the latter ornamented with a number of acute 

 teeth, which project downwards; borne in two rows on the upper 

 sides of the branches. 



Height of largest specimen, 100 mm. 



Hab. Unalashka; beach. Lituya Bay; 112 fathoms. Hagmeister 

 Island, Bering Sea. Sanborn Harbor, Shumagin Islands; beach. 

 Captain's Harbor, Unalashka; 60 to 80 fathoms, sand, September 

 13. Port Etches, Alaska; 12 to 18 fathoms, cla3'e3^-mud. Five 

 miles southwest of the west cape of Xunivak, Bering Sea; 30 

 fathoms sand. Popoff Straits. Semidi Islands; 15 to 28 fathoms, 

 gravel, June 10. Unalashka; 6 fathoms, Xov. 11th. St. Paul 

 Island, Pribiloff group ; 9 fathoms, sand, Kelp ground, July 24th. 

 Akutan Pass, near Unalashka; beach. Big Koniushi, Shumagin 

 Islands; 6 to 20 fathoms, sand and rocks in Yukon Harbor, July 

 7th. San Miguel Island, California; W. H. Dall. 



This is the most variable form of h3'droid that I am acquainted 

 with. Besides the great variation which is shown within the 

 or(linar3' limits of specific differences, there are two extreme forms 

 ■which, without as complete a series of connecting forms as there 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



is in Ml". Ball's collection, would nndoubtedl}- be called distinct 

 species. One of these two varieties is represented by onl}' two 

 specimens, one of which is somewhat worn and mutilated, while 

 the other is in good condition, and bears a nnmber of gonangia. 

 This variety' is much more robust than any of the normal forms, 

 the branches being an eighth of an inch wide ; the hydrothecae are 

 very large and swollen in the middle portion; the gonangia are of 

 the kind given as No. 2 in the description. The other variety has 

 slender hydrothecoe which are free for more than half their length, 

 are not swollen in the middle, and the outline from the aperture 

 of the li3'drotheca to the stem forms a curve which projects into 

 the hydrotheca, while in the robust form it projects outward; most 

 of the hj'drothecse also have a projection in the shape of a small 

 horn at the inner, inferior angle ; some of those on the distal ends 

 of the branches have a well-defined notch in the rim, on the 

 opposite side from the stem, forming a blunt tooth on each outer 

 corner, and between each tooth and the inner margin of the rira 

 there is a slight sinuosity. This character of the rim decreases 

 towards the lower portion of the stems and branches to such an 

 extent, that many of the hydrothecse have a rim that is entire, or 

 nearly so. 



This is not only the most variable, but apparentl}' the most 

 abundant form on the Alaskan coast. In some of its variations it 

 is quite similar to S. ahielina of the IS^ew England shores, Green- 

 land, and the North Cape, which also shows considerable specific 

 variatioru 



Sertularia inconstans, sp. nov. Plate xv., figs. 51, 52. 



Trophosome. Hydrocaulus erect, simple, constricted at the 

 base, jointed obliquely, internodes of uniform size, densely 

 branched ; branches mostly short, arranged alternately-, one to 

 each internode, erect, lying close to each other, a few of the larger 

 shoots bear one or two large branches similar to the main stem, 

 divided by transverse joints into internodes of very variable length, 

 constricted at the base, attached to the stem by quite a prominent 

 process, but little branched ; branchlets few, short, erect. Hydro- 

 thecoe large, swollen at base, a constriction near the distal end, 

 aperture discoidal, rim entire, arranged alternatelj" upon the 

 brandies and branchlets ; on the lower part of the stem, beloAv the 

 branches, there arc two to each internode ; on the upper portion of 

 the stem there are usually three to each internode, one on one side 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



and two on the other; one of the latter being in the axil of the 

 branch. 



Gonosome. Gonangia sessile, large, orifice terminal, small, 

 discoidal; ontline very irregular, tapering usually at the base; 

 borne in two close-set rows on the distal portion of the main stem. 



Height of specimen 45 mm. 



Hab. TJnalashka ; beach. 



From the character of the trophosome, this species evidently 

 belongs in the same group with S. abietina and S. Jilicula, the 

 hydrothecoe agreeing very well in form and arrangement. The 

 mode of growth, however, is quite ditferent, the number and close- 

 ness of the branches and branchlets giving to the colony a very 

 dense, plumose appearance. 



The gonangia show the greatest amount of variation of any 

 species that I know of; it is impossible to describe their form, for 

 there is not one of them which seems to agree with any other. 

 Sertularia thuiarioides, sp. nov. Plate xiii., figs. 38, 39. 



Trophosome. Hj'drocaulus erect, simple, very slender at the 

 base, largest at the distal end, the middle portion slender and of 

 uniform size, jointed transversely, internodes of variable length, 

 regularly" branched ; branches sub-erect, short, springing from 

 opposite sides of the stem, but spirally arranged owing to tiie 

 stem being twisted, much branched, on some of the largest speci- 

 mens two or three large branches occur, which resemble the main 

 stem in every particular; branchlets short, spreading widely, 

 bearing a few small subdivisions. Hydrothecae tubular, deeply 

 immersed, with a constriction on the inner side of the distal end, 

 aperture semilunar shape, arranged alternately upon the branches 

 and branchlets, and basal part of the stem ; on the upper 

 branched portion the internodes usually bear one hydrotheca on 

 one side, and two hydrothecre and a branch on the other. 



Gonosome. Gonangia large, sessile, tapering at the base, 

 ornamented with two pointed horns placed opposite to each 

 other, near the distal end ; aperture terminal, discoidal, orna- 

 mented with a row of teeth pi'ojecting into the gonotheca, borne 

 in single rows on the upper sides of the branches and branchlets. 



Height of largest specimen 180 mm. 



Hab. Bering Sea, 5 miles west of the West Cape of Nunivak Id.; 

 24 fathoms, sand. Chignik Bay, Aliaska; 11 to 16 fathoms, sand. 



1 have not been able to make out an}^ distinct opercula, but in 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



one or two instances have noticed a minute piece of membrane, 

 ■with a ragged edge, hanging from tlie rim of a hydrotlieca. The 

 hydrocaulus is ver^' characteristic, the distal part being often 

 twice the size of the basal portion. 

 Sertularella tricuspidata, Hincks. Plate xii., figs. 26, 27. 



There are specimens of a Sertularella^ collected at four or five 

 different localities, which I at first thought to be a new species, 

 and closely allied to S. tricui^pidata^ but upon examining them 

 more closelj', 1 fi.nd them to be robust forms of the above-named 

 species. 



The gonangia are very abundant, and are borne in rows on the 

 upper side of the branches. 



Hab. Semidi Islands, Alaska; 15 to 25 fathoms, gravel, June 

 10th; gonangia abundant. Popoff Straits, Shumagin Islands. 

 Unalashka; beach. Port Etches, Alaska; 12 to 18 fathoms, clayey 

 mud. Yukon Harbor, Big Koniushi, Shumagin Islands; 6 to 20 

 fathoms, gravel, July Yth. Kyska Harbor; 10 fathoms, rock}^, 

 July 15th. Iliuliuk, Unalaslika; 13 fathoms, ston3% 



There is one specimen wdiich is much more delicate than vlhj of 

 the others, but differs in no essential characters. The gonangia 

 are not present. 



Eab. Semidi Islands, Alaska; 15 to 25 fathoms, gravel, June 

 10th. 

 Sertularella rugosa, Gray. Plate xiii., fig. 31. 



Tliis species, which has only been found upon the New England 

 coast at low water, is represented on the shores of Alaska by a 

 stout form, which was found in from six to twenty fathoms. Al- 

 though the gonangia are not present, the trophosomes are so 

 characteristic tliat I do not hesitate to refer them to this species. 



Height of the largest shoot 30 mm. 



Hab. Iliuliuk, Unalashka; on kelp, Oct. 23, 1871. Yukon Har- 

 bor, Big Koniushi, Shumagin Islands; 6 to 20 fathoms, sand and 

 rocks, July 17th. St. Paul Island (Pribiloff group) ; 9 fathoms, 

 sand, on kelp ground. Cape Etolin, Nunivak Island; 8 fathoms, 

 stony. 

 Sertularella polyzonias, Gray. Plate xiii., figs. 34, 35. 



A number of very fine specimens of this widel}' distributed 

 species are in the Alaskan collection. They vary but very slightly 

 from the New England specimens, the hydrothecie and gonangia 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



being on the average a trifle stouter, and tlie wliole colon}- has a 

 more luxuriant growth. 



The gonangia are very abundant, and are borne on the sides of 

 the stems, midway between two h^-drothecre. Our specimens are 

 all from two localities. 



Height of largest specimen VO ram. 



Port Etches, Alaska; 12 to 18 fathoms, clayey mud. Five miles 

 southwest of the West Cape of Nunivak Id.; 30 fathoms, sand. 

 Sertularella robusta, sp. nov. Plate xiii., figs. 32, 33. 



Trophosome. Hydrocaulus simple, erect, stout, flexuous, four 

 or five annulations at the base, divided b}^ transverse joints i-nto 

 internodes of variable length, sparingl}' and regularly branched ; 

 branches erect, varying greatly in length, those near the base of 

 the hydrocaulus being longest, and like the upper and shorter 

 ones extending to the distal end of the stem, flexuous, constricted 

 at the base, the larger ones bearing a few branchlets. Hydrothecse 

 ver}' large, operculated, deepl}' immersed in the stem, only enough 

 of the distal end to include the teeth being free, curving slightly 

 outward, the inner angle of the base somewhat produced down- 

 wards toward the centre of the stem, the rim armed with four 

 stout teeth; operculum consists of four segments. 



Gonosome. Gonangia axillary', very large, sessile, ovate, mai'ked 

 with about eight ver}' prominent transverse bands; orifice ter- 

 minal at the extremit}^ of a short tube, with an entire rim. 



Hah. Yukon Harbor, Big Koniushi, Shumagin Islands; G to 20 

 fathoms, sand and rocks, July 7th. 



This is one of the stoutest forms of all the numerous Sertu- 

 lariidae from the Alaskan coast; and the large size and conspicu- 

 ous position of the gonangia contribute to make it the most 

 imposing of all the known members of the family. It has a very 

 rigid, angulated habit, more like some of the stouter species of 

 Sertularia, e. g., S. abietina, than the graceful curved mode of 

 growth usually found iu Sertularella. The shape and arrange- 

 ment of the hydrothecjie is also similar to that i;sually fonnd in 

 the genus Sertularia^ and the deep immersion of the h3-drothec8e 

 in the stem remind one of the forms belonging to the genus 

 Thuiaria. 



The stem, branches, and branchlets are all of about the same 

 width, 1 mm. Height of largest colony 50 mm. Length of gon- 

 angia 5 mm., width 2 mm. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



It is quite interesting to note tliat while this species is undoubt- 

 edly a good Sertidarella^ as is indicated b}' the form and structure 

 of the gonangia and tlie operculated hydrothecae, it also possesses 

 some of the characteristics of the genera Se.i'tularia and Thuiaj-ia, 

 thus still more closely connecting these different members of the 

 family Sertidariidee. 

 Sertularella pinnata, sp. nov. Plate xii., figs. 28, 29. 



Troplwsome. Hydrocaulus simple, erect, straight, much and 

 pinnately branched, divided hy transverse joints into short inter- 

 nodes, each of which bears a single branch; shoots occurring in 

 dense clusters ; each shoot widest in the middle and tapering more 

 rapidly towards the base tlian to the distal extremity; branches 

 short, sub-erect, not all in the same plane, inclining towards each 

 other on tlie upper side of the stem, divided into short internodes, 

 but little subdivided, occasionallj^ a long branch occurs near the 

 base, which is similar to the main stem in all respects. H^-dro- 

 thecaj short, tubular, wide-mouthed, rim ornamented with three 

 large teeth, two of which are usually on the outer side, not all in 

 the same plane, but inclining towards each other, so that in a 

 general view the}' appear to be arranged uniseriall}' ; h3'drothec£e 

 on the pinna? arranged alternately, one to each internode and on 

 the main stem one in each axil. Gonangia ovate, sessile, axillary, 

 marked with about eight very strong transverse ridges, which, in 

 most of the specimens, have an irregular, wavy oirtline, orifice 

 terminal, central, discoidal; borne in two rows, in the axils, on the 

 basal half of the stems. 



Height of finest specimens 35 mm. 



Hab. Unalashka; beach, low water, after gale, September; grow- 

 ing in dense tufts on sea-weeds, gonangia abundant. Coal Har- 

 bor, Shumagin Islands; low water, attached to fuci and sponges, 

 gonangia abundant. Lituya Baj^; 9 fathoms, sandy mud ; gonan- 

 gia present. Lituya Bay; 112 fathoms. 



This is a very distinct form, well characterized by the pinnate 

 arrangement of the branches, the arrangement of the hydrothecse, 

 and by the structure and arrangement of the gonangia. 

 Thuiaria cylindrica, sp. nov. Plate xvi., fig. 57. 



Trophosome. Hydrocaulus erect, simple, stout, gradually taper- 

 ing from the distal end to the base, divided by oblique joints into 

 internodes of very variable length, three or four annulations at 




181G.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



the base, regularly branched ; branches cj'lindrical or polygonal, 

 arranged alternately, bearing from one to three branchlets near the 

 base whicli are of equal size and nearly equal length with the 

 branches, or nnbranched; constricted at the base; occasionally a 

 large branch occurs which resembles the main stem in ever^^ par- 

 ticular, H3-drothecpe tubular, entirely immersed, tapering at the 

 distal end, curved slightl}^ outwards, aperture oval, those upon 

 the stem are arranged in two opposite rows on the same sides with 

 the branches, three between each two branches ; those upon the 

 branches and branchlets are in regular rows of from four to six 

 in number. Gonosome. Gonangia unknown. 



Height of largest specimen 130 ram. 



Hab. Port Moller, Aliaska Peninsula; 5 to lY fathoms, sand, 

 August. Hagmeister Island, Bering Sea; beach. Chirikoff Island; 

 beach. Chiachi Islands; 8 to 15 fathoms, gravel. 



There is considerable variation in the mode of growth of this 

 species. The largest specimen has a straight stem with shoi't 

 pinnate branches, not over iialf an inch (13 mm.) long, and bear- 

 ing but few very short branchlets. Another specimen has a 

 twisted stem, giving a very graceful, spiral form to the colony ; 

 and four or five of the specimens in which the branches bear long 

 spreading branclilets have a stout plumose form as if the branches 

 orignated from all sides of the stem. 



Thuiaria robusta, sp. no v. Plate xv., figs. 53, 54, 55. 



Tropliosome. Ilydrocaulus simple, erect, slender at the base, 

 graduallj' increasing in size to the distal end, divided by trans- 

 verse joints into internodes of uniform size, a few annulations at 

 tlie base, regularly branched; branches short, spreading, curving 

 outwards and downwards, springing from all sides of the stem, 

 one to each internode, bearing four or five brauQhlets, internodes 

 of unequal size; branchlets few, short and diverging at a wide 

 angle. H3'drothecoe vary greatly in form, those upon the branch- 

 lets and extremities of the branches curve quite strongly out- 

 wards, ma}' be immersed up to the aperture in the stem, or the 

 distal third may be free, aperture large, bi-labiate, with the broad 

 side towards the stem ; those upon the median portions of the 

 branches are long, completely immersed, aperture smaller and not 

 as distinctly' bi-labiate as those upon the branchlets; those upon 

 the proximal portion of tlie l)ranches are shorter than the others, 

 much smaller, aperture large, slightly bi-labiate with a singular 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [ISTG. 



process of the perisarc in the shape of a two-pointed pyramid at 

 the base of each hj'drotlieca ; all the h3'drothec?e upon the branches 

 and bi'anchlets are arranged sub-alternately; those upon the main 

 stem are similar to those of the proximal portions of the branches, 

 nsuall}^ two to each internode which are placed about opposite 

 to each other, occasionally a third one occurs in the axil of the 

 branch. The perisarc is unusually thick, and especiall}'' so in the 

 basal third of the hydrocaulus where the diameter of the cavity 

 of the coenosarc is not more than a third of that of the stem. 



Gonosome. Gonangia largest at distal end tapering to the base, 

 sessile, about twice the length of the hydrothecse, not including 

 the horns, armed with two stout, c^dindrical, truncate horns placed 

 on opposite sides of the aperture near the distal end, aperture 

 terminal, discoidal. 



Hab. Sea Horse Islands, Arctic Ocean; 23 fathoms, mud and 

 gravel. Hagmeister Island, Bering Sea; beach. Cape Prince of 

 Wales, "Arctic Ocean; mud. Bering Sea, 12 miles east of King's 

 Island; IT fathoms, mud. 

 Thuiaria plumosa, sp. nov. Plate xvi., fig. 62. 



Tropliosome. Hj'drocaulus simple, erect, very slender at the 

 base, increasing in size to the distal end, somewhat twisted, 

 jointed transversely, internodes of the proximal portion of very 

 unequal length, some being three times the length of others, those 

 of the upper portion are quite uniform, regularl}^ branched ; 

 branches short, arranged alternately, one to each internode, but 

 owing to the twist in the stem take on a spiral form, the upper- 

 most erect, lying close to the stem, the lower ones curve out- 

 wards, attached to the stem hj a very prominent process, bearing 

 a few branchlets, regularl}' jointed ; branchlets do not extend 

 bej'ond the ends of the branches, and lie close to the latter. 

 H3'drothec?e largest at the base, tapering slightly outwards, en- 

 tirely' immersed, aperture towards the stem, the outer side i^ro- 

 duced, rim ornamented with two large teeth placed on the outer 

 side, two tooth-like processes of the perisarc also occur in the 

 base of each hydrotheca, arranged subalternatel}^ upon the 

 branches and branchlets ; upon the stem there are three to each 

 internode, two placed opposite to each other, and one in the axil 

 of the branch. Gonosome. Gonangia sessile, very long and nar- 

 row, tapering gradually' to the base, ornamented with two short 




1876.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



horns placed on opposite sides of the orifice near the distal end, 

 orifice terminal large ; borne in single rows on the npper side of 

 the branches and branchlets. 



Height of largest specimen, 40 mm. 



Hah. Bering Sea, 5 miles southwest of the west cape of Xuni- 

 vak Island; 30 fathoms, sand. Icy Cape, Arctic Ocean; 15 

 fathoms, sand. 



In general appearance this species cannot be distinguished from 

 Sertularia thuiarioides, and even in some of the details of struc- 

 ture they bear a very close resemblance to each other; the best 

 distinguishing characteristic in the trophosomes is the form of the 

 aperture in the hydrothecse, and in the gonosome the size and 

 relative proportions of the gonangia. The twist in the stem and 

 the erect position of the branches give to this species a very 

 graceful mode of growth, which bears a striking resemblance to a 

 feather. 

 Thuiaria turgida, sp. nov. Plate xvi., figs. 5S to 61. 



Trophosome. Hydi'ocaulus simple, erect, stout, straight or 

 sliglitl}' flexuous, of nearly uniform size throughout, joints oblique, 

 internodes short, of equal size, annulated at the base, the lower 

 portion without branches, the npper or distal part regularly 

 branched ; branches broad, short, arranged alternately, one to 

 each internode, constricted at the base, attached to quite a promi- 

 nent pi'ocess from the stem, with one annulation, divided bj^ trans- 

 verse joints into internodes of variable length, sparingly branched ; 

 branchlets diverging from the branches at a wide angle, usually 

 curving towards each other. H3-drothecae large, tubular, deeply 

 immersed in the stem, curving slightly outwards, ai)erture large, 

 rim entire, arranged oppositely on the branches and branchlets ; 

 on the npper portion of the stem there are three to each inter- 

 node, a pair opposite to each other, and one odd one in the' axil 

 of the branch ; on the lower part of the stem there are two to each 

 internode. Gonosome. Gonangia large, swollen, sessile, with 

 three to five stout, longitudinal ridges, orifice terminal, small, 

 discoidal; arranged in two closel}^ set rows on the ui)per portion 

 of the main stem. 



Height of largest specimen, 140 mm. 



Hab. Port Etches; 5 to 8 fathoms, gravel and stones, Maj' 30, 

 Popoff" Straits, Shumagin Islands; near edge of reef in 6 fathoms, 

 July. Semidi Islands; 15 to 28 fathoms, gravel, June 10. Coal 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18TG. 



Harbor, Shnmagin Islands; beach. Eider village, Unalaslika; 

 25 to 30 fathoms, sandy mud, June 4. Hagmeister Island, beach. 

 TJnalashka; 6 fathoms, Nov. 11. Kyska Harbor, Aleutian Islands. 

 Lituya Bay; 9 fathoms, sandy mud. Akutan Pass, near Una- 

 lashka. St. Paul Island (Pribiloff group) ; 9 fathoms, in kelp, 

 July 24. Middleton Island; 12 fathoms, gravel, June 2. 



This species is one of the most abundant in the collection. It 

 is a showy form, and has quite a stout appearance, owing to the 

 width of the branches and stem throughout, and the large gono- 

 thecjB forming a double, close-set row along the distal third of the 

 stem add not a little to its showiness. 

 Thuiaria gigantea, sp. nov. Plate xvi., figs. 63, 64. 



Trophosome. H^^drocauhis simple, erect, rooted by a creeping 

 stolon, stout, straight, divided hy transverse joints into inter- 

 nodes of variable length, much and quite regularly branched ; 

 branches suberect, short, stout, usually unjointed, seldom branched 

 all in one plane, arranged alternately on opposite sides of the stem 

 from within an inch of the base to the very tip, constricted at the 

 base. Hydrothecoe large, deeply immersed, curving outwards, 

 orifice large, somewhat elliptical, arranged subalternately upon 

 the stems and branches. Gonosome. Gonangia borne in two rows 

 on the upper sides of the branches and branchlets, usually occur- 

 ring towards the distal ends of the stems, sessile, obovate, with 

 an irregular outline, orifice terminal, large, discoidal. 



Height of largest specimen, 165 mm. 



Hab. St. Paul Island, Bering Sea. Hagmeister Island; beach. 

 Akutan Pass, near Uualashka. K3^ska Harbor ; 10 fathoms, 

 rocky, July 15. 



The finest specimens consist of a dense cluster of about 350 

 shoots, averaging six inches in length, attached to a large barna- 

 cle; 'it is much the largest single specimen in the collection, con- 

 taining just about one million individuals, exclusive of the repro- 

 ductive zooids, and it can just be crowded into a two-quart jar. 

 The conditions for the existence of life must be very favorable 

 where such a luxuriant growth as this is obtained from a root- 

 stock that covers o\\\y a piece of an old barnacle shell. 



Macrorhynchia Dallii, sp- nov. Plate xi., figs. 18, 19, 20. 



Trophosome. Hydrocaulus erect, compound, very stout, black, 

 straight or gracefully curved at the distal end, not divided by 




18Tfi.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 231 



joints, the lower portion sometimes as much as the lower third, 

 bearing no pinna3, but give origin to two or three branches which 

 often equal the main stem in size, and resemble the latter in every 

 particular, the upper portion l)ears a double row of closelj' set 

 pinniB. Pinnai arranged alternately' on opposite sides of the stem 

 and branches, gracefully curved, more or less, towards each other, 

 giving off near their origin from one to three branches, which are 

 exact copies of the main pinnre, equal the latter in length, and lie 

 so closely upon each other, that tlie^'^ are not noticed in a casual 

 glance; both the pinnte and their branches are divided by trans- 

 verse joints into short internodes. H3'drothecie arranged uniserially 

 upon the pinnfe and their branches, one to each internode, narrowest 

 at the base, rim entire and slightly' flaring, Nematophores simple, 

 verA' large, the distal portion free, semicylindrical, very broad, one 

 on either side and at the upper edge of the hydrothecaj, facing 

 inwards, one just below each hydrotheca, and on the main pinnoe, 

 sometimes two, one directly below the other, there are also two or 

 three near the base of the gonangia irregularl3' arranged. 



Gonosome. Gonangia very large, quite regularly cylindrical, 

 tapering at the base, sessile, mouth discoidal and the full size of 

 the gonangia, rim entire ; scattered over the pinnre and their 

 branches. 



Height of finest specimen 225 mm. Width of largest hydro- 

 caulus at base 5 mm. Length of largest gonangium 4 mm. 



Hab. Unalashka; beach. Akutan Pass, near Unalashka; beach. 



This is one of the largest, stoutest, and by far the showiest and 

 most elegant species in the collection, and I take pleasure in 

 naming it after Mr. Dall, through whose untiring labor and skilful 

 care this fine collection has been made, and kept in a good state of 

 preservation. 



In the mode of growth and external characters this species has 

 all the appearances of a true Aglaophenia, and the large cylindrical 

 gonangia partially hidden b}' the dark-colored pinuEe are readily 

 mistaken for corbutos. 



ATHECATA. 



Tubnlaria borealis, sp. nov. 



Trophosome. Hydrocaulus simple, erect, slightly annulated or 

 twisted at the base, largest at the distal end and tapering gradu- 

 ally to the base, smooth, not forming a collar-like expansion below 




232 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [ISTG. 



the hj'di'anth, light straw-color. H3'dranths large, drooping; proxi- 

 mal tentacles thirty to thirtj'-two in number, arranged in a single 

 verticil ; when expanded forming a circle with a diameter of twenty 

 to twenty-four mm.; distal tentacles lifty to sixty, arranged in a 

 double row so closely as to form a single verticil. Gonosome. 

 Gonophores oviform with four crest-shaped, laterally compressed, 

 tentaculiform processes, arranged in pendant racemes of six to 

 nine in number, which, when mature, are twice the length of the 

 h3^dranth, and bear from tliirt}' to sevent_y sporosacs each. No 

 radiating canals are discernible in these alcoholic specimens, j-et 

 they may exist. 



Length of stem 60 mm. 



ffab. Hagraeister Island ; beach, low-water. 



In general appearance this species bears quite a close resem- 

 blance to Tuhularia indivisa; the light-j'ellow, stout stems, and 

 the large heads of both would hardly fail to mislead one at a 

 casual glance. If there really are no gastrovascular canals in the 

 sporosacs this form belongs in the sub-genus Pai-ypha of Agassiz, 

 but if the canals are present it makes it a still more interesting 

 form, it then being intermediate between the sub-genera Tuhularia 

 proper of Agassiz, and Parypha of Agassiz. 



Tuhularia indivisa, Linne. 



A number of \QYy characteristic specimens of this widel^'-dis- 

 tributed species have been received from Alaska. The stems are 

 very much interlaced, and many j'ounger ones have attached 

 themselves to older stems, thereb}^ producing a branched appear- 

 ance. Where the j'oung stems have become close)}' twined about 

 the older ones, it gives to the latter an appearance like that of 

 the large confluent stem of Halecium viuricatum. 



Ilab. St. Michael's, Norton Sound ; collected by Mr. L. M. 

 Turner, who describes them as very abundant in small pools left 

 hy extreme low tides. 



Eudendrium pygmseum, sp. nov. 



Trophosome. Hydrocaulus simple, erect, stout, rooted b}' a 

 creeping stolon, annulated througliout, irregularly branched; 

 branches erect, and bearing but few branchlets. Hydranths large, 

 the stout tentacles, which vary in number from sixteen to twenty, 

 are arranged in a single verticil. Gonosome. Sporosacs arranged 

 in crowded rows beneath the tentacles, nearly spherical or pointed 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 233 



at the distal end, and from thirty to fort3--five or even fifty in a 

 cluster. 



Height of specimen 20 mm. 



Hah. Akutan Pass, near Unalashka. 



This is a short, stout form, of a blackish-brown color at the 

 base, becoming lighter towards the distal ends of the branches. 

 It resembles the dried stems of a Eudendrium that occurs at Santa 

 Cruz, Califoriiia, in being annulated throughout, and may prove 

 to be identical. 



Nov. Fam. (?) RHIZOXEMIDvE, S. F. Clark. 



Pol.ypites attached by numerous thread-like fibres. Tentaculae 

 apparenth' of two kinds ; the inner verticil of aboral tentacles 

 branclied. 



Nov. Genus RHIZONEMA, Clark. 



Pol3-pes solitar}', unconnected. Basal portion of the polypite 

 swollen, mammillate, with the thread-like processes for attach- 

 ment developed therefrom. 

 Type Rhizonema carnea, sp. nov. 



Stems stout, unbranched, smallest at the distal end; of a 

 nearly uniform size for two-thirds of the distance toward the 

 base, at which point tliey begin to increase in diameter rapidly to 

 twice the diameter of tlie distal end, then taper rapidl}' to quite a 

 sharp point like an acorn. The processes for attachment are de- 

 veloped in large numbers (hundreds) from the basal surface of tlie 

 enlarged portion of the stem. They are of a light-brown color, 

 and form a matted mass which extends beyond the sharp-pointed 

 base. The polype is large and turgid ; its length much greater 

 than its width. The aboral tentacles are about forty in number, 

 ver}' slender and delicate, reaching a trifle beyond the end of the 

 proboscis. Just within these tentacles is situated anotlier circle 

 of processes, the exact nature of which can be determined oidy 

 from fresh specimens. 



The proboscis is very large and swollen, and bears around its 

 distal end the proboscidial tentacles, which are as delicate as the 

 finest thread, very numerous, and so matted together in the speci- 

 men before me that it is impossible to form any correct estimate 

 of their number. The mouth, situated at the extremity of the 

 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



proboscis, is veiy large. Length of head, 13 mm. Length of 

 swollen basal portion, 21 mm. Total length of perfect specimen, 

 68 mm. 



The specimens from which the above description was written 

 were collected at St. Michael's, Norton Sound, Alaska, Oct. IT, 

 1875, b}- Mr. Lucien M, Turner, U. S. Signal Service, who appends 

 tlie following note : " These specimens were of a deep coral red 

 when found. Thej^ are not common. From the sea." 



They are two in number, one of which is perfect — the other is 

 without a head, but bears at the distal end a thin chitinous mem- 

 brane surrounding the stem ; its edges recurved and marked with 

 a few faint radiating lines. 



From the appearance of the individual, T am of the opinion that 

 the head had been thrown off, and that another was about to be 

 developed. 



The matted masses of delicate fibres about the basal portion 

 present a verj- peculiar appearance. 



When cleared away so as to expose the pointed basal end of the 

 stem, that part has a close resemblance in miniature to a beet-root 

 with an unusual number of fibrous rootlets. 



Under the microscope, each fibrous process appears to be de- 

 veloped from a small rounded papilla ; some papilliB which bore 

 no fibres exhibited an opaque milk-white nucleus. The nature 

 and development of these processes is a matter of considerable 

 interest, but I think tliat little could be done even with a large 

 supply of onl}' alcoholic specimens. The nature of the inner 

 verticil of aboral tentacles (?) is also a ver}- interesting question. 

 From their position, and from their compound appearance, they 

 would naturall}' appear to be clusters of reproductive bodies. On 

 the other hand, tlie alcoholic specimens under the microscope do 

 not show the structure characteristic of such bodies. They appear 

 to be thin, flattened, branched tentacles, and have no swelled or 

 thickened portions such as would indicate anj^thing like repro- 

 ductive organs. It is, of course, impossible to determine their 

 nature positively without further material. 



This is certainly a very peculiar and very interesting form, on 

 account of its peculiarl}- shaped base, its apparent!}' compound 

 tentaculse, and the thread-like processes for attaclimeut, wliich 

 seem, on account of the pointed base, to be necessary for its 

 secure anchorage. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



Okdek LUCERNARI-ai. 



Family ELEUTHEROCARPIDiE, H. J. Clark. 



Kalyclystus auricula, H. J. Clark. 



Tweut}^ or thirty good specimens of this interesting form have 

 been collected at St. Michael's. Thej' are in good preservation, 

 and represent various stages of development. In some of the 

 larger specimens the ovaries are very far advanced, much en- 

 larged, nearly filling the entire cavity, and greatly distending the 

 body •Nvalls. In others the ovaries show no enlargement, and 

 between these two conditions all intermediate stages are repre- 

 sented. 



The color is light brown, with a bluish tinge, which becomes 

 darker with the development of the ovaries. Three of the speci- 

 mens have ten arms and three have twelve, showing a marked 

 tendency to variation in this respect. 



Geographical distribution: St. Michael's, Norton Sound, Alaska; 

 Mr. L. M. Turner, Oct. 17, 1875. Vardoe Islands, Norway ; Rathke. 

 Faroe Islands ; Steenstrup. English coast ; Montague, Fleming, 

 Johnston, and others. South coast of Greenland ; Steenstrup. 

 Anticosti ; H^att, Yerrill, and Shaler. Massachusetts Ba^"^ ; H. J. 

 Clark. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



The figures on plates vii. to xi., inclusive, are enlarged 30 

 diameters, with the exception of Nos. 16, 19e and Idg; the extent 

 to which the latter are magnified is indicated on the plates. 



The figures on plates xii. to xvi., inclusive, are magnified 20 

 diameters, with the exception of No. 33, which is enlarged 7 

 diameters. 



Plate YII. 



Fig. 1. Gonofhyrea hyalina ; a, hydrothecae ; &, gonangium ; c, 

 extra-capsular medusoids with tentacles ; cZ, coenosarc, or fleshy 

 axis. 



Fig. 2. The same ; portion of a branch, showing the arrangement 

 of the hydrothecse. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Fig. 3. Campanularia circula ; showing, a, hj^drotheca ; 6, main 



stem, and the verticillate arrangement of the pedicels around 



the stem. 

 Fig. 4. Campanularia clenticulata ; the h3'drothecfe, showing the 



variation in shape and size. Specimen from Port Etches; 



creeping on Lafoea. 



Plate YIII. 



Fig. 5. Campanularia compressa ; a, gonangium; ?-, rootstoclc 



or creeping stem. 

 Fiof. 6. The same; showing the variation in size and form of the 



hydrothecse. 

 Fig. 1. Campanularia urceolata ; a, hydrothecse ; &, gonangium. 

 Fig. 8. Campanularia turgida ; a, hydrotheca ; b, gonangium ; r, 



rootstock. 



Plate IX. 



Fig. 9. Campanularia Integra ; showing the variation in the hy- 

 dro thecae. 



Fig. 10. The same; &, gonangium ; r, rootstock. 



Fig. 11. Campanularia spjeciosa ; a, hydrothecse; ?', rootstock, 

 or creeping stem. 



Fig. 12. Clylia Johnstoni ; sliowing the variations in thie stems 

 and hydrothecse. 



Plate X. 



Fig. 13. Ealecium scutum; a, Iiydrothecse ; 6, gonangia; c, ova; 



c?, aperture of gonangia. 

 Fig. 14. The same; a, portion of a branch; b, portion of main 



stem. 

 Fig. 15. Ealecium muricatum ; gonangium. 

 Fig. 16. Ealecium j^lumularioides ; a, portion of a branch; 6, 



portion of main stem ; c, hydrothecjB. 

 Fig. 11. The same ; a, branch ; 6, main stem; r, rootstock. 



Plate XI. 



Fig. 18. Macrorhynchia Dallii ; b, main stem ; a, pimife ; c, hydro- 

 thecse ; d, nematophores. 



Fig. 19. The same ; e, a cross section of main stem near the base; 

 y, gonangium ; the other letters as iu fig. 18. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



Fig. 20. The same ; the letters as before. 



Fig. 21. Lafoea ])ociUum ?; a, h^'drothecre ; r, rootstock. 



Plate XII. 



Fig. 22. Lafoea fruticosa ; a branch with hydrothecae. Shiiraa- 

 gin Islands, 6 to 20 fathoms. 



Fig. 23. Lafoea dumosa ; o, main stem; b, hydrothecse. 



Fig. 24. Lafoea gracillima ; a, main stem; 6, hydrothecre. 



Fig. 25. Calycella syringa ; a, hydrothecoe ; 6, opercula ; ?•, root- 

 stock. 



Fig. 26. Sertidarella tricuspidata ; slender variet}', from the 

 Seraidi Islands. 



Fig. 27. The same ; stout variety, also from the Semidi Islands. 



Fig. 28. Sertidarella pinnata ; portion of a branch. 



Fig. 29. The same ; a, portion of a branch ; b, gonangium ; c, inter- 

 nal chamber. 



Fig. 30. Sertularia filicula ; a, main stem ; 6, branches. 



Plate XIII. 



Fig. 31. Sertidarella riigosa; portion of a branch with h3'dro- 

 thecje, from the Shumagin Islands. 



Fig. 32. Sertidarella robusta; portion of a branch; a, hydrothecse; 

 6, opercula. 



Fig. 33. The same ; gonangium. 



Fig. 34. Sertidarella poly zonias ; a, hydrotliecoe. 



Fig. 35. The same; gonangium; ?', rootstock. 



Fig. 36. Diphasia mirabdis ; portion of a branch. 



Fig. 37. Sertularia cupressoides ; a, portion of a branch; b, por- 

 tion of main stem. 



Fig. 38. Sertularia thuiarioides ; a, gonangia; b, portions of 

 branches. 



Fig. 39. The same; a, portion of a branch ; &, gonangium. 



Plate XIY. 



Fig. 40. Sertularia variabilis ; portion of a branch. 



Fig. 41. The same; a stouter form. 



Fig. 42. The same ; a form in which the hydrothecae are more 



elongated. 

 Fig. 43. The same ; a slender form in which the hydrothecae are 



arranged more in pairs; a, the apertures where the gonangia 



were attached. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



Fig. 44. The same ; a, portion of a branch ; r;, gonangia from same 



colony. 

 Fig. 45. The same ; a stouter form, in which the hydrotliecse are 



quite divergent. 

 Fig. 46. The same ; the stoutest of the many varieties ; the three 



pairs of hj'drothecse are all from the same branch. 

 Fig. 47. The same ; gonangia. 

 Fig. 48. The same ; still another form, the divergent characters of 



which are not constant ; not even in different portions of the 



same colony. 



Plate XY. 



Fig. 49. Sertidaria variabilis; the three pairs of hj'drothecae are 



all from the same stem. 

 Fig. 50. The same ; the most extreme of the many forms. 

 Fig. 51. Sertulaina inconstans ; three gonangia which grew next 



to each other, showing how variable they are. 

 Fig. 52. The same ; portion of a branch. 

 Fig. 53. Thuiaria robusfa; o, portion of main stem, showing the 



thickness of the perisarc or chitinous walls ; b, side view of basal 



portion of a branch ; e, side view of portion of stem. 

 Fig. 54. The same ; d and e, portions of branches. 

 Fig. 55. The same ; gonangia. 

 Fig. 56. Sertularia similis; portion of a branch. 



Plate XVI. 



Fig. 57. Thuiaria cylindrica; showing the unusual arrangement 

 of the h3'drothecffi and the mode of branching. 



Fig. 58. Thuiaria turgida; gonangium. 



Fig. 59. The same ; portion of a branch and branchlet. 



Fig. 60. The same; portion of main stem. 



Fig. 61. The same ; portion of a branch. 



Fig. 62. Thuiaria pliimosa; 6, portion of a branch; gr, gonangia. 



Fig. 63. Thuiaria gigantea; a side view of main stem; &, gonan- 

 gia ; c, hydrothecse. 



Fig. 64. The same ; portion of a branch. 




1816.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



ON THE EXTRUSION OF THE SEMINAL PRODUCTS IN LIMPETS, WITH 

 SOME REMARKS ON THE PHYLLOGENY OF THE DOCOGLOSSA. 



BY "SV. n. DALL, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



In a 'paper published in the American Journal of Conchology, 

 Part III., 1871, 1 brought together a summaiy of the various details 

 publislied from time to time by various naturalists, upon the an- 

 atomy and physiology of this group. In that paper it was shown 

 that the manner in which the seminal products were freed from 

 the ovary and testis, and the passage b}' Avhich they reached the 

 exterior, was unknown, and from the investigations of Lankester 

 and myself, that the existence of the oviduct figured by Cuvier 

 (Mem. sur les Moll., 15, 181T), if not actiiall}- disproved, was at 

 least a matter of grave doubt, and had not been confirmed b}^ any 

 subsequent examination. Lankester (Ann. Mag., X. H., xx. p. 

 334, 1867) had suggested that the passage of the ova to the ex- 

 terior was made through two orifices first described b}^ him and 

 termed " capitopedal orifices." These were said to open, " one 

 on each side of the head in the angle formed b}'- its junction with 

 the muscular foot, and (internally) opening into the blood sinus 

 surrounding the pharyngeal viscera." He also described an open- 

 ing communicating between the "pericardium and the supra-anal 

 articulated sac," or accessory renal organ. The latter I have 

 never been able to demonstrate to my own satisfaction, but I do 

 not assume to dispute its possible existence. In the brief notice 

 of his work published b}- Mr. Lankester, which has not been fol- 

 lowed b}^ any more detailed communication, the terms used were 

 somewhat misleading, or at least not clear. Instead of opening 

 externally in the angle formed by the head and the foot, the 

 "capitopedal orifices," if I have correctly identified them, are 

 situated on the back of the neck, so to speak, or more properly 

 on the transverse portion of the integument above the head and 

 in front of the main pericardial chamber in the angle formed by 

 the neck and the inferior surface of the mantle over the head. 

 Mr. Lankester found them in Patella vulgata^ but I have never 

 been able to detect thera in the few alcoholic specimens of that 

 species which I have been able to examine. In fresh specimens 

 of Acmasa patina and testudinalis, I have generally been able to 




240 ' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



find them, and in the living animal the}' are of an orange color. 

 In Ancislromesus mexicanus, the}^ are quite prominent in some 

 cases and almost imperceptible in others. They also differ iu 

 character. In Ancist7^omesus (one of the PateUidse), they appear 

 as true orifices, in the acmseas they present the appearance of an 

 elongate, narrow, glandular mass, from which, internally, f^duct is 

 not always traceable. In some individuals they appear entirely 

 absent or abortive. My own opinion of their function is, that 

 they ai'e aquiferous pores, such as are common to many mollusks, 

 through which water passes into the circulation directly in the 

 PcdeUidde and by a process of straining througli the glandular 

 mass in the Acmseidae. Whatever their office, it can hardly be of 

 fundamental importance, or they would not be so frequently found 

 in an abortive condition. Whether in some cases they may be 

 indirectly in communication with the renal sac is of little conse- 

 quence, as, in the paper alluded to, I have shown that in some 

 genera the pericardium is so situated that there can hardly be any 

 such communication, and in so homogeneous a group as the limpets 

 it is unlikely that such an anatomical character, if important, 

 should be inconstant. 



Moreover, through the intricate channels alluded to, the ova 

 which are of considerable size could hardly be propelled without 

 some special muscular arrangement which does not seem to be 

 present in an}'' case examined. Anxious to set at rest a question 

 of so much interest, and which for so mau}^ 3'oars had puzzled 

 anatomists, I have lost no opportunity of dissecting animals of 

 this group, especially the lai'ge species in which the characters 

 might be supposed to be more evident. The opacit}' of the shell 

 and the impossibility of getting at even the external orifices of 

 the viscera without destroying the life of the individual, proved 

 effectual obstacles to the stud}"- of these functions in tlie living 

 animal. While in the field, from 1811 to 18T4 inclusive, I made 

 dissections of many hundreds of acmteas with no definite result, 

 except that of finding that the sexual products appeared ripe in 

 only a small portion of the ovary at any one time, and in the 

 acmaeas the portion most usuall}' in that condition was the ex- 

 treme right hand part of tlie anterior end, immediately below the 

 floor of the larger renal sac. No oviduct or opening was in any 

 case demonstrated. 



Somewhat discouraged by repeated failure, on leaving the field- 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



work in which I had been engaged, tlie mattei* was deferred until 

 a better opportunity should arise. Some time since, a large 

 number of specimens of the giant limpet of Central America, 

 Ancisft'omeHus mexicanus, were obtained by the Museum of Com- 

 parative Zoology from the naturalists of the Hassler Expedition. 

 By the courtes^^ of Prof. Alex. Agassiz a number of tliese were 

 turned over to me for dissection. 



In this species the right supra-renal sac is quite large, covering 

 the entire superior surface of the animal between the muscular 

 attachments. The viscera are coiled below it in the usual manner, 

 except that in ripe individuals the upper outer edge of the ovary 

 or testis extends rather moi'e be3'ond the peripheral coil of the 

 intestine than in most species. A section then discloses the mem- 

 branes in the following order from above. 



First, the external delicate layer of the mantle covering every- 

 thing else, and very intimately bound together hy tough connec- 

 tive tissue with, 



Second, the superior wall of the right hand (and only fully 

 developed) renal sac. By means of delicate, but tougli columnar 

 walls of tissue, forming connected cellular cavities, overlaid with 

 semi-glandular tissue for the elimination of the renal secretions, 

 the upper wall of this sac is connected with, 



Third, the floor of the sac, of similar constitution and tough- 

 ness. The two are readil}' separated owing to the greater delicacy 

 of the connecting tissues, but the upper Avail and the mantle, and 

 the lower wall and the tissues below it, are ver3' intimatel}- con- 

 nected by membranous fibres of such toughness as to render their 

 separation without injury very difficult. 



A muscular band or mesentery' of considerable strength, having, 

 in the specimens of Ancistromesus examined, a width equal to 

 nearly one-twentj'-fifth of its length; extends completely around 

 the internal viscera which are compactly bound together by similar 

 tissue. 



From the floor of the renal sac similar but short mesenteric 

 bands extend downward to the peripheral band, radiating from 

 the apex of the shell, and having, when in their natural position, 

 a somewhat triangular form; the short sides of the triangles cor- 

 responding to the distal ends of the radii, and their plane surfaces 

 being nearly vertical to the horizontal plane of the visceral mass. 

 In the specimen under consideration there were one posterior and 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1816. 



ten lateral bands of this nature, five on each side. In details of 

 form and dimensions these vary in different individuals. They 

 widen at their junction with the tissues above and below, and send 

 off numerous fibres in all directions, and especiall}^ to the peripheral 

 band. We thus have as it were the entire visceral mass suspended 

 in the perivisceral cavitj^, free of the floor and sides of the latter 

 (except a delicate anchoring membrane, lying vertically in the 

 median line and connecting the median line of the visceral mass 

 with that of the muscles of the foot), but in contact or close con- 

 nection with its roof which is composed of the floor of the larger 

 renal sac. This sac opens externally by a prominent papilla to 

 the right of the anal papilla, while the smaller (and usually almost 

 abortiA'e) left renal sac, opens by a proportionally smaller papilla 

 to the left of the anal. 



The specimens were examined b^^ cutting awaj' the solid mus- 

 cular foot, and thus exposing the perivisceral cavity without in 

 any way lacerating its contents, sides, or upper surface. A number 

 of individuals were dissected without coming an}' nearer to the 

 object in view. At last, however, a specimen was taken up which 

 appeared to solve the difficulties and afford the long sought for 

 explanation. It was a male. The surface of the viscera with one 

 exception was perfectly' normal. On the right-hand posterior portion 

 of the periphery of the testis, covered with its usual delicate invest- 

 ing membrane, for the space of an inch from the posterior end of the 

 median line, forward, the ducts were swollen and enlarged. They 

 projected in a marked manner from the smooth and evenly rounded 

 normal surface, like "varicose veins," except tliat the ducts are 

 nearly parallel. In the ripest portions the delicate investing 

 membrane of the testis had become ruptured or perforated, and 

 the seminal matter exuding from these punctures had been solidi- 

 fied by the alcohol in little rounded grains or particles, which had 

 not been disturbed by the careful manipulation of dissection. 



At those points where the congested or enlarged ducts were in 

 mechanical contact with the roof of the perivisceral cavity, that 

 is to saj", the floor of the renal sac, numerous minute, but plainly 

 visible, oval perforations appeared. These were oblique to the 

 general plane of the membrane, the opening on the side adjacent 

 to the testis being usually- directed somewhat backward instead 

 of vertically downward. They had also something of a funnel 

 shape, being larger on the side toward the testis, and some of them 




ISYG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



Tvere twice as large as others. The largest had a diameter of .015 

 in., and wonld admit tlie passage of a fine bristle into tlie renal 

 sac. On applying slight pressure from above, the fluids con- 

 tained in the renal sac passed through in a minute jet. They were 

 irregularly distributed, corresponding in locality to the ripeness 

 of the duels of the testis. Except where the testis in its ripe 

 condition was in immediate proximity or actual contact with the 

 membranes of the renal sac, no such orifices or pores were to he 

 found. In the other specimens in whicli the testis or ovary showed 

 none of these signs of maturity, no such orifices could be detected. 

 The membranes in such cases presented a smooth and practically 

 impervious surface in every part. 



It would seem as if these facts gave a final solution to the diffi- 

 cult}' as follows: — 



When the ovary or testis is ready to discharge its products, 

 that portion of it wliich is ripe evinces its condition by an en- 

 largement of the ducts, continuing until dehiscence takes place. 

 Coincidently, the superincumbent membranes of the renal sac 

 (whether by sympathy with the congestion of tlie seminal organ 

 or otherwise) become lax and perforations make their appearance 

 immediately^ adjacent to the dehiscent ducts. Through these 

 orifices the seminal products make their way. A contraction of 

 the pedal muscles would be sufficient to cause the ejection. After 

 reaching the renal sac, the question of the extrusion of the ova or 

 semen presents no difficulties. The same agency which empties 

 the sac of its secretions through the renal papilla would suffice to 

 eject the seminal products, which floating in the water would cause 

 the fertilization of the ova as in the case of Chiton. 



The rarity of individuals in a ripe condition in collections may 

 be due to their repairing below tide marks at such times, and 

 hence avoiding the collector. 



The method above suggested is paralleled in numerous other in- 

 vertebrates, and even some fishes, with non-essential diflTerences 

 of detail. The specimen referred to has been submitted to several 

 naturalists who agree as to the facts. 



"While additional evidence is desirable in corroboration, I feel 

 tolerably confident of the correctness of the inferences drawn from 

 the above facts, which furnish an explanation at once simple and 

 in accordance with experience in other cases, of a very puzzling 

 question. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



I nifiy add, that the localized turgidit}- or swelling of the ripe 

 seminal ducts had been previously observed b}' me on other occa- 

 sions among specimens of Acmaea patina; but having dissected 

 them in most cases from above, removing the membranes not con- 

 nected by tissue with the ovary, and looking more particularlj' for 

 a permanent duct or passage, the perforations of the renal mem- 

 branes were likely to, and did, entirely escape my notice. 



Additional notes on the genera of Limpets. — In the paper liefore 

 referred to, I was unable, for want of material, to obtain data in 

 relation to the dentition of the typical species of Helcion and 

 Scurria. The former I have lately obtained from a dry specimen 

 kindly communicated by Dr. Carpenter, and Mr. S. A. L. Brannan, 

 of San Francisco presented me with an alcoholic specimen of 

 Scurria sciirra obtained by him at Valparaiso. 



The result of an examination of the two forms shows that 

 Helcion has the dentition of the typical Patellae such as P. vul- 

 gata, except that the third or outer cusp of the third lateral tooth 

 is obsolete. The gills ai*e interrupted over the head as in Helcio- 

 niscus^ from wiiich it is sufficiently distinguished by the dentition. 



Scurria scurra agrees in all essentials of branchiae and denti- 

 tion with Scurria mesoleuca described 1)3'' me as above, so that 

 no change of the arrangement I then adopted is necessary'. A 

 careful examination of the soft parts and dentition of some of the 

 typical scutellinas is still a desideratum. 



Having now nearly complete data in regard to the principal 

 groups of the Docoglossa, a few observations may be permitted 

 on the relations of the different subordinate groups. I will pre- 

 mise, that, for reasons which I hope in a short period to publish 

 171 extenso^ I have come to the conclusion that the northwest coast 

 of America has been a great centre of distribution for molluscan 

 species; or of forms which, as thej' migrated south or east from 

 their original habitat, changed or added to tlieir original char- 

 acters, until at present they are termed nearl}- related rather than 

 identical forms. In many cases their paths have become dry land, 

 and the track must be followed rather by organic relations than 

 contiguity' in distribution. Were tlie foregoing views correct, we 

 should look to find in this region — 1st, a maximum development 

 of the lower or parent forms of Docoglossa ; 2d, a local abund- 

 ance and radiating distril)ution of the next higher genera; and 

 lastly, in the nearest region where conditions of temperature, 

 food, and station were most favorable (and the migrating organ- 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



isms might be supposed to have been longer exposed to these 

 favorable conditions than those subjected to the vicissitudes of 

 more distant migration), we should expect to find instances where 

 the group had reached its highest form of specialization. 



This is exactly the real state of the case. 



Whether we consider the dentition, the mechanism of respira- 

 tion, or the development of special organs, or tlie total bulk of 

 the organism, the Abranchiata are unquestionabh' the lowest forms 

 of the order. Without ej-es, branchiae, or lateral teeth, sluggish in 

 their motions ; relying on buccal tentaculfe and the cuticular nerv- 

 ous system for outward impressions, and protected b}' the uniform 

 conditions of their deep water station, they stand at the foot of 

 the genealogical tree. 



In the Alaskan region they are represented by two or three 

 species, which reach a larger size than any of their congeners. 



Filidium and Lepeta have reached the east coast of America 

 and the Hebrides; the latter onl}' has penetrated to the Mediter- 

 ranean if identifications of Italian naturalists are to be accepted. 



The rhachidian tooth, representing the type of a radula, and 

 disproportionately'^ developed when compared with the uncini in 

 this group, may by natural selection have given place to the strong 

 subequal ranks of laterals characteristic of the Acmasidse, and the 

 buccal tentacles, rendered unnecessary b}^ the presence of eyes, dis- 

 appeared, or are only represented by the smooth frill of the muzzle 

 of Acmsea drawn down to a corner, while in the remainder of the 

 family Ihey are totally absent. 



The development of the radula, of a cervical branchia, of eyes, 

 and of general bulk, marks the progress of the group in the 

 Acmasidas. From usclessness the uncini become abortive. 



In the northwest American region, more than in all the world 

 beside, is this group developed in species, in size, and in indi- 

 viduals. Strong in the possession of their new organs, the}- have 

 invaded the littoral zone, and only the smaller and weaker forms 

 tarry in deep water. 



On the west they have, through favorable conditions, reached 

 Japan, China, and south to Amboyna. On the south, their un- 

 broken ranks stud the beache.s from California to Tierra del Fuego, 

 and thence north on the east coast of South America to Rio de 

 Janeiro. The eastern barriers at the north are not so easily over- 

 come, and Acmaea teatudinalis and virginea have alone reached 

 northern Europe. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



In the present state of our knowledge, it is easy to trace the 

 steps of development. Greater knowledge would doubtless in- 

 crease the complications. 



In the warm waters of California Lottia grandis, having reached 

 an enormous size, is also enabled to develop an incomplete bran- 

 chial cordon in addition to its cervical plume. 



Further south Scurria completes the cordon and apparently 

 reaches the highest stage of development short of a rejection of 

 useless parts. This soon occurs in the disappearance of the cer- 

 vical plume, whose office is abundantly filled by the development 

 of the cordon. This brings us to the Patellidse. Here the devel- 

 opment of the radula has so far progressed that its median line, 

 in the highest type of the family, is now supplied with a rhachi- 

 dian tootli of properly proportioned size, and the abortive uncini 

 of the Acmseidse have given place to teeth which are capable of 

 fulfilling a useful purpose. At the same time, the plain muzzle 

 frill of Acmeea is replaced by a crop of arborescent tactile papillae, 

 and in Anciatromesus^ the highest development of total bulk known 

 to the order, is added to the greatest known specialization of the 

 other characters. 



This occurs on the Mexican coast in the direct line of migration 

 from the northwest coast. So far as viQ j^et know, the representa- 

 tives of tliis family in more distant regions have not j-et rivalled 

 it in development. All want the median tooth ; the other char- 

 acters, but with much smaller bulk, are developed in Patella vidgata 

 of Europe and some Indian species. Patina cannot complete its 

 cordon, inhabiting the British Isles. Nacella, an equally distant 

 traveller, in Patagonia, barely completes its cordon, while its asso- 

 ciate, Patinella, is more successful, and both sport a frill around 

 the foot. 



Helcion and Helcioniscus of the African coasts, have the cordon 

 interrupted, and the dentition is less uniform and effective than in 

 Ancidromesns^ whicli, however, they resemble in dispensing with 

 the foot frill. In the ricli Indo-Pacific region it seems probable 

 that the higher types prevail more abundantly, and there is reason 

 to believe that Scutellina is a weakly offshoot from the acmcan 



stem. 



Without verging greatly on the speculative, we may construct 

 a genealogical tree, which cannot greatly differ from the following 

 scheme: — 




iste.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



247 



West 



XORTH. 



Lepetidae 



o 



Cryptobranchia 



Lepeta 



Pilidiuin 



Acmaeidse 



Collisella 



Acmsea 



Collisellina 



Scutellina ? 



Lottia 



Scurria. 

 Pateilidae. 



East 



Patella 



Nacella 



Patina 



Patinella Helcion Helcioniscus 



Ancistromcsus 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



DESCKIPTIONS OF SOME VERTEBRATE REMAINS FROM THE FORT UNION 

 BEDS OF MONTANA. ^ , ^ — 



BY E. D. COPE. =;^t f^ , 0^6c>i.H* if^iHiE 



Aublysodon lateralis, sp. nov. '- 



Established on some teeth, one of which is of the size of those 

 of the A. horridua^ aud which difter in some important particu- 

 lars. The posterior crenate ridge is as in that species, lateral in 

 position, separating a posterior face from the lateral at a right angle. 

 The posterior face is separated from that of the otlier side by a 

 very obtuse angle. The anterior aspect of the crown is without 

 crenate cutting edge, but the latter is present as a border to the 

 front, passing along the front of the side opposite to that wliich 

 bears the posterior angle. It is directed laterally, and projects 

 bej^ond an open groove which follows its posterior base. The 

 base of the crown is broad elliptic in section. Enamel smooth. 



A much smaller tooth was found with the preceding, and pre- 

 sented similar characters, excepting that the posterior face is not 

 so strongl}' truncate. 



Measurements. m. 



Length of crown preserved 02.5 



T.. . -. , „ f long 018 



Diameter of base of crown -? ^ „,„ 



(short 010 



Width of posterior face 006 



Length of smaller crown Oil 



Long diameter of base of do 006 



The apices of both crowns are considerably worn by use. Both 

 were found by Charles H. Sternberg of my exploring party. 

 Laelaps incrassatus, sp. nov. 



Represented by two teeth, a larger and a smaller, which were 

 found near each other, but not sufficiently so as to warrant the 

 belief that they pertain to the same individual. 



The characteristic feature of these teeth is, that the transverse 

 diameter of the base of the crown exceeds its anteroposterior, a 

 point in which it differs from all the other carnivorous dinosau- 

 rians yet known from the formation. Nevertheless, the posterior 

 cutting edge is median, and is denticulated. The anterior cutting 

 edge, which is also denticulated, is nearly median at the apex, but 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



continues along one side of the widening anterior face to the base 

 of the crown. Tlie posterior cutting edge is nearly' straiglit, wliile 

 the anterior is rather abrubtly curved at the apex. 



The anterior and posterior edges are not lateral in position as 

 in Auhlysodon lateralis. 



Measurements. M. 



Ko 1. No. 2. 



Length of crown 025 .014 



Diameter at base I '"^^"■"-1^'^^terior . . . .012 .006 

 (transverse 0135 .008 



A large species. Discovered b}- Jno. C. Isaac. 

 Laelaps explanatus, sp. nov. 



An abundant species, but as 3-et represented onl}^ b}' teeth which 

 are about the size of those of the largest of living Varanidse. 



The crowns are strongly' compressed and curved; one side is 

 flat, the other gently- convex; the posterior cutting edge is median 

 and concave. The anterior edge is not continued to the base of 

 the crown, and disappears before attaining the apex ; it is feebly 

 denticulate, and only at its convex curvature towards the apex ; 

 its course is median. The flat face has a slight bevel to the pos- 

 terior edge. Surface smooth, without transverse undulations. 



Measurements. M. 



Length of crown 0110 



T-w- 4 ^ 1 ( antero-posterior . . . .0066 



Diameter crown at base \ '■ 



I transverse 0028 



Laelaps falculus, sp. nov. 



Kepresented by several teeth of about half the size of those of 

 the last described reptile. The}' diflTer in form in several respects, 

 being relatively shorter and stouter, and less sectorial in character. 

 The lateral surfaces are about equally convex, while the anterior 

 face is narrowly obtuse, and without cutting edge. The posterior 

 edge is concave and furnished with a serration of smaller denticles 

 than in the L. explanatus ; it is median in position. 



Measurements. M. 



Length of crown 0090 



_,.,., e ( antero-posterior . . .0056 



Diameter of base of crown] ' ^^,^ 



^ transverse 0040 



Found b}' Jno. C. Isaac. 

 17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18*76. 



Dysganus encaustus, gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. Gen. — A large niimbei- of teeth exhibit the characters of 

 this genus, which is a peculiar form of herbivorous Dinosauria. 

 The crowns are compressed, so that the fore and aft diameter 

 much exceeds the transverse. The body of the crown is a flattened 

 shaft of dentine, one face of which is the denser, and produces the 

 cutting edge. This face is flat or weakl}' keeled, while there are 

 two other faces uniting at an open angle, thus giving a subtri- 

 angular section. On each of these faces is adherent a shaft of 

 ceraentura-like material of a dense character, whose external face 

 is longitiidinall}^ concave. These inclose between them on the 

 median line a deep groove, which expands below into a wide con- 

 cavitv, which appears to be enlai'ged as the age of tiie tooth in- 

 creases preparatory to shedding. The other parts of the base of 

 the crown below the cutting face, are inclosed in a rather tliick 

 deposit of rugose cementum, which rises a distance on the sides 

 of the tooth. 



The method of replacement of the teeth in this genus appears 

 to resemble that of Cionodon, except that there is no indication 

 of the existence of as many series in the transverse direction. The 

 longitudinal grooves in the anterior and posterior cement columns 

 are probably occupied hy the borders of the apices of successional 

 teeth. The presence of these columns, etc, distinguishes this 

 genus from that and other allied genera. 



Char. Specif. — The cutting fj\ce is more or less concave, and is 

 impressed or sunken, its lateral borders, and the cement of the 

 l)asis, projecting beyond it. Tlie inferior border is also usually 

 oblique, that of one of the sides rising diagonally-. In the same 

 proportion, a weak keel is also unsymmetrically placed, l^'ing close 

 to the opposite border, and dividing the face into a wide and a 

 narrow concavity. The oblique border is also incurved, the edge 

 of the posterior cement column curving round the cutting face of 

 the dentine. The latter is delicately rugose in unworn specimens. 

 'J'he external basal cementum rises highest on the incurved border 

 of the crown ; its surface is minutelj' rugose, the rugosity- being 

 generally punctiform. It is also of a different color from the 

 dentine in the specimens as preserved, and is occasionally found 

 nearly worn awa}'. The edge of unworn teeth is not serrate. 




1870.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Measurements. m. 



Length of basis of tooth 012 



( antero-posterior 009 



Diameter of crowu \ . nn^ 



( transverse 004 



Transverse diameter below crown 008 



The teeth are rather smaller than those of Hadrosaurus foxdkei. 

 The borders present no indication of the crenation seen in that 

 and other species, either in worn or nnworn specimens. 



Dysganus haydenianus, nov. sp. 



Represented hx a number of teeth found in such relation that 

 they are supposed to belong to two individuals. 



The^^ differ materially in form from those of the D. encaustus, 

 and exceed any of them in size. 



The base of the tooth possesses the thick investment of rough 

 cementum, and has a slope awa}- from the base of the crown. The 

 form of the crown is peculiar in possessing a lateral face placed 

 at a strong angle to the usual face, and separated from it b}'^ a 

 strong protuberant angular ridge. This angular cutting face would 

 resemble that of the Diclonii were it not that the body of dentine 

 of which it is composed is a flat plate instead of a triangular seg- 

 ment of a subquadrate prism. Each face has a separate plate, 

 "which is separated from the other by a suture. A solid mass fills 

 the angle between them, which is divided by a groove produced 

 b}- the pressure of the angle of the face of the succeeding tooth 

 which fits it. The wider of the "front" faces is divided by a low 

 longitudinal ridge. Both of the faces are bounded b}' an external 

 incurved ridge which cause them to have a concave surface. 



A tooth of a size equal to that of the one just described was 

 found with it, has a form more nearly like that of D. encaudus.^ in 

 the less degree of prominence of the lateral angle. It displaj^s but 

 a single posterior cementum-like mass, which presents considerable 

 lateral faces as well as a posterior one, as in the first described 

 tooth. 



Measurements. m. 



Length of base of crown 010 



Elevation of remaining part of crown . 



/ antero-posterior 

 Diameter of crown < transverse, total 



' " dentine 



Dedicated to Doctor F. V. Hayden, U. S. Geologist. 



.OOG 

 .015 

 .010 

 .004 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Dysganus bicarinatus, sp- nov. 



This dinosauriaii is represented in the collections b}' some of the 

 teeth of three individuals. Two of the teeth represent immature 

 stages, while the others are worn b}' continued use. They all 

 present characters not found in the D. encaiistus, from which they 

 differ in a direction the opposite of that which characterizes the 

 D. haydenianus. 



The crowns present a nearly flat face without incurved lateral 

 angles, nor prominent median keel. The basis is wide, projects in 

 a rim beyond the face, and is invested with rough cemeutura. The 

 face is peculiar in being divided into three planes b}^ two low 

 angular ridges, and its surface is smooth. The dentinal column 

 is triangular, and there are two posterior columns separated b}' a 

 fissure, in mature teeth. 



The absence of the lateral incurved angle, and the presence of 

 the two median ones distinguish this species from the D. encaustus. 



Measurements. M. 



Length of basis 009 



Width " Oil 



Length of woru face ....... .006 



( antero-posterior Oil 



Diameter of crown I ^^^^g^^j.^^ 00^ 



Dysganus peiganus, sp. nov. 



In the typical tooth of this species the form approaches the 

 genus Palaeoscincus, Leid}^, in the compression of the crown, and 

 the contraction of the base; it is a limital species of Dysganus if 

 really properly placed in that genus. 



The widest portion of the crown is above the base ; from this 

 expansion it contracts in both directions, and in the unworn tooth 

 forms an angular median apex. This is not the case in D. encaustus., 

 •which is regularly rounded. The margin of the crown is narrowed, 

 expanding but little towards the expansion, and is quite rugose. 

 From these rugosities low ridges descend on the face of the tooth, 

 whose surface is also minutely rugose. The face is divided by a 

 prominent median rib, which extends to the apex. No ceraentum 

 is visible on the basis, in the only specimen in which this part is 



preserved. 



Measurements. m. 



Length of crown 008 



/ transverse 005 



Diameterofcrown'^^j^^.^ i^ (atbase . . .008 



I ^ (greatest . . .011 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



Diclonius pentagonus, gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. Gen. — Herbivorous dinosaurians, in whicli the teeth ai'e 

 elongate and witliout distinct root, and present dense material 

 only on one side of the crown (the ''front"), whose section pro- 

 duces a cutting edge. The other face of the tooth (the "back") 

 is coated with cementum, and is absorbed during the protru- 

 sion of the successional tooth from below, which thus rises from 

 " behind." In the antero-posterior direction tlie teeth are pro- 

 truded alternately, and the lower parts of the crowns are con- 

 tracted to give space for the apices of the adjacent young teeth. 

 In the type of the genus there is but a single series of teeth. 



In the known species of this genus, the dense face ("front") of 

 the crown presents a longitudinal keel, but this is not necessarily 

 a generic character. The terms " front" and "back" are not in- 

 tended to be accurate, as the faces so termed are either external 

 or internal, the direction being probably reversed in the two jaws. 



This genus is allied to Hadrosaurus and Cionodon. From the 

 former it differs in the mode of succession of the teeth, w-hich, as 

 determined by Prof. Leidy in that genus, is from the " front" of 

 the base of the tooth, whereas, in Diclonius, the succession is as 

 in Cionodon, from the "posterior" base of the tooth. This ar- 

 rangement allows of a more continuous use of the dense face tiian 

 in Hadrosaurus, where that face terminates as the young crown 

 rises into functional position. A species from the Fort Union 

 bad lands of the Judith River Avas described b3'Dr. Leid}- as Tra- 

 chodon mirabilis. Specimens of this species from the locality 

 furnishing those of Diclonius, present the mode of succession 

 ascribed b}- tliat author to Hadrosaui-u,^, to which genus he after- 

 wards referred the species under the name of H. mirabilis. 



The dentition of species of this genus shows that but one 

 tooth in mature functional use existed in a line transverse to the 

 axis of the jaw at one time, and that alternating with tliese, one 

 partially protruded crown, and one stump of a crown, present 

 masticating surfaces in transverse relation. The formula for this 

 genus should then be written 2 — 1, while in Cionodon it is 3 — 3 — 2. 



The tj'pe of this genus exhibits a mode of nutrition of the 

 young teeth similar to that seen in the genus Suurocephalus 

 among fishes. The bone is perforated b}' a series of foramina, 

 each of which conveyed an arter}' directly into the base of the 

 growing crovvn. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [IStfi. 



Char. Specif. — The front of the crown is divided longitudinally 

 b3'a prominent median keel and the borders are not serrate. The 

 keel is onl3^ moderatelj^ prominent at the lower part of the crown. 

 The back of the crown is divided into three faces 133" two straight 

 longitudinal parallel solid angles, and the crown is contracted near 

 the base by the lateral bevels for the adjacent growing teeth All 

 these faces are covered bj'^cementum, whose roughness is granular 

 in character. Tlie external surface of the jaw-bone has precisely 

 the same character, so that the apices of the teeth only appear as 

 j)rominenees of its border. 



The typical specimen is that of an individual of moderate dimen- 

 sions; measurements of a tooth of a gigantic individual are given 

 below. 



Measurements. m. 



Length of a series of five teetli 023 



Protrusion of crown of largest tooth 006 



Diameter " >.^ ^<. 006 



Length of crown above lateral apical facets of larger animal .013 



)-posterior . . .011 



rausverse . , . .009 



Width of median face of "back" 005 



Diameter of crown at same point ] ' 



\ trausve 



Diclonius perang-ulatus, sp. nov. 



This abundant species of herbivorous dinosaur has left its shed 

 teeth in nianj"^ localities of the Fort Union horizon, in company 

 Avith those of the Trachodon mirabilis, Palseoscincus costaius^ 

 and other large reptiles. Teeth with complete apices are rare. 

 The marked character of the species is seen in the prominence of 

 the median angular ridge which divides equally the cutting face 

 of the crown from apex to base. The prominence increases down- 

 wards so that the transverse diameter becomes greater than the 

 antero-i)osterior, in some cases being diamond-shaped in the trans- 

 verse direction. Its position is s^'mmetrical, or nearly so. The 

 lateral borders are smooth, one specimen displa^nng a faint trace 

 of crenation near the apex. There is no shank or root in an}' of 

 the teeth preserved, and the basis is excavated on the side awa}'' 

 from the cutting edge for the apex of the successional tooth. A 

 band of roughened cementum extends round the base, and is con- 

 tinued upwards on each side opposite the cutting face. This side 

 presents three faces, a narrow median, and two wider lateral. The 

 latter are slightly concave, and are probably adapted to the apices 




187(1] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



of the successional teeth; the former is often slightly concave, 

 and is the seat of most rapid attrition. The lateral facets disap- 

 pear at a distance below the apex, where the non-cntting side is 

 strongly convex, and covered with a coarselj' rngose cementuni ; 

 the rngosit}' inclnding pits. 



Measurements. m. 



Lengtli of a shed tooth Oil 



( antero-posterior 010 



Diameter of crowu < . oio 



( transverse 012 



Width of facet for successional crown 00(5 



AYldth of posterior facet OOo 



Width of cutting face of another near apex . . . .COS 



Antero-posterior diameter of do. at do. .... .010 



The prominence of the median angle with other points distin- 

 gnishes this species from the Cionodon arctalua. The size is larger 

 than that of the known specimens of that species, equalling that of 

 tlie largest of the order. (See Report of TJ. S. Geological Siirv. 

 Terrs. II., 4to, for description of genus Ciono(Jo».) 



Specimens of this species have been referred b^' Dr. Leid^- to his 

 Trachodon mirabilis. 



Diclonius calamarius, sp. nov. 



This species, as represented by teeth, is the smallest of the 

 genus, but the adult size is a point, however, not easily deter- 

 mined among extinct reptiles. The teeth are slender, and the 

 front has parallel borders and a median keel. The borders are 

 entire, and, in two of the crowns, twisted slightl}^ round the long 

 axis of the tooth. The keel is thus twisted also, and towards the 

 base, when it becomes quite low, is nearer one border than the 

 other. The back of the tooth displays two lateral facets, sepa- 

 rated b\' a narrow median facet. The former have a thin, deli- 

 cately^ rngose, cement investment, with a minute rugosity; the 

 latter is smooth in the specimens, apparently from friction. The 

 chnracters of this saurian readil}- distinguish it from its congeners. 



Measurements. m. 



Length of portion of crown 012 



( antero-posterior 004 



Diameter of crown < , „rt, 



( transverse C04 



Monoclonius crassus, gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. Gen. — Teeth with obliquel^y truncate face and distinct 

 root, which is grooved for the successional tooth on the front. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISYG 



No external cementum layer, caudal vertel)rae biconcave, and brim 

 narro\A'. Fore limbs large and massiA'e. 



The teeth of this genus resemble those of Hadrosaurus, and like 

 them, are I'eplaced from the '' front," an arrangement which pre- 

 cludes the possiI)ilit3' of more than one series of teeth being in 

 functional use at one time. The robust fore limbs and elongate 

 ilium distinguish Diclonius from Hadrosaurus. From Trachodon 

 it differs in the absence of the rough cementum laj'er on the back 

 of the tooth. 



Char. Specif. — The faces of the teeth are acuminate oval in form, 

 and are divided by an elevated keel, which is median above, but 

 turns to one side at the base. ^largin crenate, the grooves ex- 

 tending more or less on the convex '"back," which is otherwise 

 smooth. 



Sacrum with ten vertebrae, the last centrum much compressed, 

 the diapophyses extending horizontall}' from the neural arch 

 above, and connected I)}" a vertical lamina with the iliac supports; 

 lengtli 27.33 inches. The bones of the limbs are robust, the hinder 

 the longer, but not so much so as in some other genera. Length 

 of femur 22 inches; width, proximally, 7.4 inches; distall}' 6 inches. 

 Lengtli of tibia 20 inches; greatest diameter, proximallj^, 8 inches; 

 distally 7.25 inches. The three anterior dorsal vertebrae are co- 

 ossified, and the first exhibits a deep cup for articulation with the 

 preceding vertebra. The episternum is a T-shaped bone, thin and 

 keeled on the median line below. Length of transverse portion 

 21 inches. 

 Paronycliodoii lacustris, gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. Gen. — The teeth which characterize this genus have tlie 

 general character of those of Plesiosaurns, Elasmosai(rus, etc. 

 The crowns are subcouic, and the enamel is thrown into longitu- 

 dinal plieffi. The special characters of the genus are seen in the 

 form of the crown, one side of wdiich is convex, and the other side 

 plane, so that tiie section instead of being circular is semicircular. 

 It is also strongly curved in the direction of its plane face. 



Char. Sjyecif. — Both anterior and posterior edges are curved, 

 and are not acute nor denticulate. There are four plicae on the 

 flat face, onl}' two of which approach the apex. There are six 

 keels on the convex face, all of wiiich approacli tlie apex. All 

 the carinas are ratlier obtuse, and the enamel is otherwise smooth. 

 The apex is ver^- acute. 




ISTG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Measurements. M. 



Leugth of tooth 0130 



( antero-posterior .... .0040 

 Diameter at base -Jjj.^^^^^^^g^ 0024 



Length of crown 0100 



It is probaiile that portions of skeleton of this reptile are in my 

 possession, but the means of positive identification are yet wanting. 



Compsemys imbricarius, ?p- nov. 



Tliis species, like the others of the genus, has the scutal sutures 

 well defined, and the superficial surface of the carapace sculptured. 

 The character of this sculpture distinguishes the species, and in 

 the present instance in a special manner. It consists, in the 

 C. imbricarius, of excavations bounded on the sides by a short 

 ridge each, which alternate with each other. Thus each bounding 

 ridge terminates abruptly at the fundus of one of the fossae, while 

 the other end of the fossa rises and contracts to another ridge. 

 The result is precisely that seen in the interior sculpture of Sara- 

 cenic domes or niches, and is one which is quite unique among 

 tortoises. The direction of the ridges is at right angles to the 

 costal dermal sutures. This species was about as large as the 

 snapping tortoise {Ghelijdra serpentina). 



Measurements. M. 



Thickness of a costal bone 0050 



r lengthwise 0065 



Three fossfe measure | ^^.^^^^.-.^^ 0050 



Compsemys variolosus, sp. nov. 



One of tlie most abundant, and the largest species of the Fort 

 Union beds. The carapace is convex and the plastron flat ; the 

 marginal bones are heavy and strongly convex on the inferior 

 side. The margin of the plastron is thickened and heav^-, char- 

 acters which also belong to all parts of the carapace. The sutures 

 of the dermal scuta are deepl}-^ impressed, and the surface of the 

 bone is strongly sculptured above and below, and even on the 

 superior face of the thickened margins of the free lobes of the 

 plastron. The sculpture consists of round foss£e, wliich are dee[)ly 

 impressed and are arranged quincnnciall3', so that tlieir l)orders 

 never form straight lines. The latter are also more or less angu- 

 late on the edge, so that the surface has a more than usuall3' ru- 

 gose character. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T6. 



Tlie typical specimen equals those of the large land tortoises 

 of the Eocene in dimensions. 

 Discovered b}' C. H. Sternberg. 



Poly thorax missuriensis, gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. Gen. — Plastron with contracted fixed lobes and wide 

 bridge; carapace with well-developed marginal bones; mandibular 

 ramus narrow; alveolar face with acute external margin; the 

 symphj'sis neitlier produced nor recurved. Dermal scuta every- 

 where distinct, those of the plastron the usual ones, with the addi- 

 tion of the two marginal intergulars, and two large interhnmerals. 

 The latter scuta are separated from the humerals by sutures run- 

 ning parallel with the humeral margin of the anterior lobe between 

 the gular and pectoral scuta. 



In the possession of interhumeral scuta, Polyfhorax differs from 

 any known genus of Tesluduiata. The general structure is much 

 like that of Adocus and Baena, with nearer resemblance to the 

 latter in its double intergular scuta. It is impossible to ascertain 

 whether there are intersternal bones, as the plastron is coossifi^ed 

 throughout. The presence or absence of intermarginal scuta can- 

 not yet be determined, although it is clear, that if existing, their 

 position is quite external. 



This genus is interesting as connecting in its stratigraphical 

 position allied types of Cretaceous Xo. 5 (Adocus), with those of 

 the Wahsatcli and Bridger Eocenes (Baena). 



Char. Specif. — Carapace with openly dentate posterior border. 

 The surface is irregularly swollen, esi^ecially on the median line 

 near the margins of the vertebral .scuta. The vertebral scuta are 

 wide, the costals short, and the marginals narrow. The anterior 

 lobe of the plastron is a little shorter and more contracted than 

 the posterior; its base is narrower than the antero-posterior extent 

 of the bridge. Its extremity is rounded, while that of the pos- 

 terior lobe is truncate with rounded angles. Tlie gular and in- 

 tergular scuta are each wider than long, while the interhnmerals 

 are much longer than wide. The humerals are narrow, while the 

 pectorals arc wide from the anterior position of the pcctoro. 

 humeral suture. Each anal scutum is longer than wide. 



The surface of the plastron is obsoletely but coarsely rugose ; 

 the roughness greatest anteriorly, where it consists of short raised 

 lines irregularly disposed. 




18t6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



Measui'eme7-i,ts. m. 



Length of plastron ....... .183 



Length of anterior lobe 049 



Length of bridge 076 



Width of bridge 07G 



Width of extremity of posterior lobe 0.S5 



Thickness at inguinal region 010 



Hedronclius sternbergii, gen. et pp. nov. 



Char. Gen — The bone on which this genus reposes has the ap- 

 pearance of the crown of a j'oung tooth. Its central cavity is large 

 and expands to the margin of the basis; its apex is unworn. It 

 appears to be too protuberant for the position of a dermal tubercle. 

 It may be distinguished as a short crown on a shorter slightly 

 constricted portion or neck. Tlie crown culminates in three crests, 

 which togetlier form a letter T, and which descend towards the 

 neck. There is no investment of enamel or cement, and the ma- 

 terial of which it is composed resembles dense bone. 



Char. Specif. — The faces on each side of the stem of the T, are 

 concave and divided by an oblique crest, which descends from the 

 common apex. The other face is gently convex, and tlie inferior 

 part of each of its bounding crests projects ear-like. The base is 

 an oval. 



3Ieasurcme7its. m. 



Elevation of crown 006 



T^. . ^ , ( longitudinal 005 



Diameter of base i '^ „„, 



I transverse iJOi 



Discovered by Charles H. Sternberg. 

 Ceratodus erucifems, sp. nov. 



A basal lamina separable from the dentigernus lamina. The 

 latter supports ribs which diverge from a single marginal rib 

 which extends along one side. The marginal rib is separated by 

 a deep groove from the radiating ribs, which is continuous with 

 the grooves between the latter. The ribs are of irregular diameter 

 and not perfectly straiglit; they are interrupted by weak trans- 

 verse ridges which project beyond the margins. The ridges rises 

 abruptly from their common base and are separated distally by 

 notches of the margin. 




2G0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



Measuretnents. m. 



Long diameter of dental surface ..... .011 



Short diameter of dental surface 007 



Thickness of plate 003 



There are six ridges in the length. 

 Ceratodus hieroglyphus, sp nov. 



This species is material!}^ different from the last, and was more 

 abundant, jndging from the occurrence of its remains. 



The dentigerous plate is thin and dense, and has the appearance 

 of a short toothed comb with a handle. The tootli-like points are 

 the extremities of low ridges, which are arranged nearly at right 

 angles to a wide longitudinal elevated half of the osseous base. 

 They are separated by shallow grooves from each other, and are 

 not continuous with the basis just mentioned, which rises abruptl3'^ 

 above them. The}' are smooth. The " handle" above alluded to 

 is triangular in section having two bevels on the side supporting 

 the tooth ridges. The lower face of the boije is smooth. 



3Ieasuremenis. m. 



Total length 013 



Length of dentigerous portion 010 



Total width 0045 



Width of dentigerous portion 0030 



There are thirteen teeth in the length. 

 Myledaphus bipartitus, gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. Gen. — Crowns of the teeth molar in character, truncate, 

 wider than long, standing table-like on the root. The latter par- 

 taking of the shape of the crown, short, straight, split equall}' and 

 at right angles to the greatest diameter of the tooth. The crowns 

 form a pavemeut having a regularly hexagonal outline. Their 

 composition is different in the halves on each side of a line which 

 divides tlie crown equally, running in the long direction. On one 

 side the dentine is striate at right angles to the long diameter ; 

 the structure is not distinguishable b}^ the hand lens on the oppo- 

 site side of the line. 



The affinities of this genus cannot now be stated, but the form 

 of the root recalls tlie Eloamohranchii ^ and that of the crown, 

 some of the rays. 



Char. Specif. — The staining on opposite sides of tlie line tliat 

 divides the crown, is different, on tlie one paler than on the other. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



The face of the crown is nearly plane, and its border is vertical 

 and overhangs the root all ronnd in a narrow ledge; it is verticallj- 

 striate, as is also the root. The antero-posterior diameter exceeds 

 the transverse, and the facets are snbequal, and are continued less 

 perfectly on the root. The fissure of the latter does not reach the 

 base of the crown. 



Measurements. m. 



Length of tooth 0053 



T^. , » ( antero-posterior . . . .0060 



Diameter of crown < ^ _,, , _ 



( transverse U04o 



Long diameter of root 0050 



Length of root 0030 



Discovered by Charles H. Sternberg. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18TG. 



November 7. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twent^'-five members present. 



A paper entitled " Notes on American Cretaceous Fossils, 

 with descriptions of some New Species," by Wm. M. Gabb, was 

 presented for publication. 



On Conglomerate No. XIL — Mr. Young described the Con- 

 glomerate No. XII. as it appears upon the Nevv River in West 

 Virginia. 



The formation consists of alternate members of shale and sand- 

 stone; the latter numbering five, which are massive, but not con- 

 glomeritic, and form dirt's upon the sides of the hills which flank 

 tlie river. 



The shaly members of the group contain workable coal-beds. 

 There are four beds, ranging in thickness from three to five feet. 

 Small seams are also present. 



The total tliickness of the formation is about one thousand 

 feet, lialf of which is represented in tlie sandstone clitts. 



The formation as above described extends from Hinton to 

 Hawk's Nest, the latter point being a bold clirt' formed of one 

 of the sandstone layers of the formation. 



The New River at Hinton falls over a barrier made by one of 

 the sandstone members. 



The falls of the Kanawha are made by the upper plate of the 

 conglomerate. 



The Auatt^alians. — Dr. Pickering, having recently made a 

 communication to the Academy on the sources of the native 

 population of New Zealand and Tasmania, now proposed to speak 

 of Australia. 



The zoological character of Australia precludes the origin 

 there of a member of the human familj-, and the Australians are 

 intruding strangers ; but where they come from is a mystery. 



The most prominent photographs at the Centennial Exposition 

 are unsatisfactory, with the exception of two life-sized heads of 

 clearl3' pure-blooded natives; while the many excellent small 

 photographs require closer inspection than is usually affurded to 

 visitors. 



At the Fiji Islands, he had been informed by a chief of the 

 existence of " long-haired" people in the interior of the main 

 island; similar accounts are given of other large islands westward, 

 and there are inland people in the MalaN-an archipelago about 

 wliom very little is known ; yet it does not seem probable that 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPIITA. 263 



any island in the whole series in question contains straight-haired 

 blacks resembling Australians. 



Though unprepared to cancel the Australian as a distinct 

 physical race, he admits that affinity may possibl}' be Ibund in 

 tlie Telingan or Black Hindu ; and, notwithstanding the general 

 Caucasian features of Telingans, and the broad, flat nose and 

 darker complexion of Australians, a match could probably be 

 found of individuals not ver}^ dissimilar in personal appearance. 



From eastern Hindustan, Telingans continue migrating by 

 thousands to the Malaj-an archipelago, but, being all males, make 

 very little impression on the resident population. He did not, 

 while among them, apply the Caucasian test of the divided carti- 

 lage at the nasal extremity. 



On Sonomaite. — Mr. E. Goldsmith stated that he had found 

 among other undetermined minerals collected b}' Prof. F. V. 

 Harden in Sonoma County, Cal., near the geysers, one for which 

 he proposed the name Sonomaite. 



This is the composition of the first specimen — 



A second specimen from another si)ot probabl}', but from the 

 same localit}', gave but a slightly dili'erent result, as the analysis 

 showed — 



XI := 8.36 per cent. = 3.89 per cent oxygen. 

 Fe = 1.56 '' = 0.34 



ilg = 7.51 " = 3.00 " " 



g ■ = 38.30 " = 23.98 " " 



H = 44.27 " = 39.35 " " 



The ox\'gen ratios of both analyses are — 



XI : Mg (Fe) : S : H. 

 3 : 3 : 18 : 33. 



which result ma\' be expressed in the forauila — 



XI S., 3Mg S -f 33fl. 



The alumina was in these anal3'ses precipitated twice in order 

 to effect a complete separation of the magnesia. The water was 

 found by the difference. 



In regard to the oxidation of the iron, he ascertained that, if 

 the watery solution of the salt was tested with a solution of 

 sulphocyanide of potassium and well mixed, no red coloration 

 appeared, but, on adding a few drops of diluted sulphuric acid, a 

 reddish coloi'ation became visible. It seems reasonable to assume 

 that a small quantit}' of the iron w%as oxidized to sesquioxide, but 

 had no acid with which to form the sesquisalt. The truth of this 

 view becomes apparent if a few hundred milligrammes are dis- 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



solved in inucli water, in which case a small quantitj' of sesqiii- 

 oxide of iron drops to the bottom of the vessel ; if, however, the 

 solution of the salt is concentrated, the separation of this oxide 

 seems not to take place. The iron in this mineral varies in 

 quantity, and he thought it might at times be entirely wanting, 

 for magnesia and protoxide of iron may substitute each other, and 

 for this reason he did not introduce it into the formula. 



When he first determined the mineral, it was supposed to be 

 Pickeringite, Ijecause the general appearance, the reactions with 

 the blowpipe, its solubility, and all the elements contained in it 

 are the same; only the quantitative analysis showed the differ- 

 ences in the ratios of the constituents. 



Sonomaite occurs in silky, r-olorless crystals. 



Specific gravity in alcohol of 95 per cent. = 1.982 ; in water it 

 would therefore be := 1.G04. 



Klauer described (Gmelin's Handbuch der Cheraie, 2, 315) a 

 salt which differs from this only in having 3 peq. of water more. 



Explorations in South America. — Prof. Cope stated that an 

 expedition had been planned in this city for the exploration of 

 the sources of the Madeira River, and of the eastern slopes of the 

 Andes in Bolivia. Prof. James Orton had taken charge of the 

 party, which included a corps of scientific assistants. As the 

 region in question is the least known in South America, important 

 results are anticipated. It was hoped that the Academy would 

 be able to avail itself of these in the increase of its collections, 

 etc. The expedition sailed on the 25th of October last. 



November 14. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-six members present. 



A paper entitled " Note on a Cirripede of the Californian Mio- 

 cene, with remarks on Fossil Shells," bj- T. A. Conrad, was pre- 

 sented for publication. 



On Boussingaultite and other Minerals from Sonoma County, 

 California. — Mr. E. Goldsmith stated that among the minerals 

 brought by Dr. F. Y. Hajxlen from Sonoma County, Cal., was 

 one which he thought proper to call Boussingaultite. Although 

 he had not been able to find in the current literature an analysis 

 of the mineral to which Bechi had given this name in 18(54, still 

 he presumed that it might be that. It is stated, however, in 

 Dana's Descriptive Min., p. 635, that Boussingaultite is mascag- 

 nite with some sulphate magnesia; whereas the mineral which 

 Mr. G. analyzed seems to be sulphate magnesia ammonia. The 




18Y6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



mineral occurs in irregular granular masses, is soft, and easily 

 rubbed to a perfectl}' white powder. 



If heated in the tube, closed at one end, it affords water and a 

 white sublimate, which latter is sulphate ammonia; in the bottom 

 remained a white residue. On coal it gave, with solution of 

 cobalt and strong ignition, the reddish coloration indicating the 

 presence of magnesia. It is soluble in water. The solution 

 sliowed the presence of suli)huric acid, magnesia, and ammonia. 



The quantitative determination of the sulphuric acid and the 

 magnesia was done with the air-dry substance ; the amount of 

 ammonium-oxide and water were calculated by means of those 

 obtained data stochiometrically. 



S = 38.80 per cent. = 23.31 oxygen, 



ilg == 15.56 " = 6.22 " 



AmO = 5.03 " = 1.54 " 



H = 40.55 " = 36.04 " 



The oxygen ratios of the acid and bases are — 



S : ilg : AmO : H. 

 15.13 : 4.03 : 1 : 24. 



Here are evidently five equivalents of sulphuric acid, and also 

 the same number of equivalents of bases, hence the formulated 

 expression — 



4ilg S, AmO 6 4- 2411 

 may be proposed. 



The substance is nearly insoluble in alcohol of .818 specific 

 gravity, at 70° F., it was therefore weighed in it, and its specific 

 gravity found to be =: 2.037 ; in water it would have the specific 

 gravity = 1.666. 



Mr. Goldsmith further called attention to the following minerals, 

 which were all collected by Prof. Hayden in the same locality as 

 those described above : — 



Geyserite intermixed with a basic sulphate of iron and an oil, 

 which is probably petroleum. 



Epsomite or native sulphate magnesia occurs there, sometimes 

 pitre, occasionall}' mixed with geyserite. 



Geyserite containing some sonomaite. 



Mascagnite or native sulphate ammonia in white, irregular- 

 shaped fragments. 



Nodular geyserite seems to have been ground by the action of 

 the motion of the geyser. Some of the nodules are nearly spheri- 

 cal; others spheroidal; a few in the collection are flattened, but 

 always smoothly rounded ; color white. The}' are nearly pure 

 silica. 



Sulphur is also a product of the geyser region. This element 

 was noticed to be in very small crystals, which, when burned 

 awa}', left at first a black carbonaceous matter ; on heating to a 

 high temperature, the carbon disappeared and a white ash re- 

 mained. 

 18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T6. 



Iron ochre containing a small quantity of arsenic. The reddish- 

 iDrown powder has a peculiar disagreeable odor. 



Kaoliuite in the form of a pale blue, soft powder ; on heating, 

 the blue color disappears ; if this substance is heated in the glass- 

 tube, closed at one end, water is expelled which reacts alkaline ; 

 but on heating strongl}^ that is, to near redness, the reaction on 

 litmus-paper indicates the presence of an acid. 



Earth}' geyserite containing some gypsum, and, at least, the 

 flame-reaction of the presence of a minute quautit}^ of potassa. 



Although Mr. Gr. searched for chlorine or soluble chlorides, 

 which as usual are widely distributed over the globe, in these 

 cases, however, they seem to be absent. Whether in Sonoma 

 County no chloride of sodium is found cannot be said at present 

 with certainty; it is singular that none was noticed among those 

 minerals which he had the opportunity to determine. 



Cretaceous Vertebrates of the Upper Missouri. — Prof. Cope 

 stated that he had recently returned from an exploration of the 

 Judith River beds of the Upper Missouri, which were discovered 

 by Dr. Hayden in 1855. Attention was given to the relation of 

 this formation to the underlj'ing marine cretaceous beds, and to 

 the respective faunse of the two as compared with that of the 

 earh' eocene period. The fauna was found to be terrestrial and 

 lacustrine, including great numbers of Unionidse^ Lepidosteus, 

 Mijledophus (a form probably of rays); of tailed Batrachia, 

 crocodiles, fresh-water turtles, Rlnjnchocephalia, and Dinosaurian 

 reptiles. The Dinosauria constitute the most abundant and cha- 

 racteristic form of life, eighteen species having been found, of 

 Avhich eight were of the carnivorous {Goniopodous) and ten of the 

 herbivorous {Orthopodous) type. The predominant genus of the 

 former is Lselaps, and of the latter I)ysga7ius, of both of which 

 several species were found. 



The facies of this fauna is thus plainly mesozoic and cretaceous, 

 adding weight to the arguments already adduced to this effect. 

 But the change from the fauna of the underljing cretaceous num- 

 bers four and five is very striking, the genera and often higher 

 groups being quite different. The types of the marine beds were 

 found to be Pythonomorp)ha, Elasmosaurus, a genus allied to 

 Polycotylus^ Enchodus, chinnerids, and sharks, with marine 

 Cephalopoda^ etc. Nevertheless, the pli3'sical transition between 

 the marine and lacustrine formations appears to be complete, as 

 indicated by Prof. Hayden. 



Dr. Le Conte read the following report from the committee 

 appointed, at the request of the Centennial Commission, to inves- 

 tigate and report upon the introduction of noxious insects and 

 plants through the medium of the foreign exhibits in the exhi- 

 bition : — 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



REPOET ON INSECTS INTRODUCED BY MEANS OF THE 

 INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION. 



On behalf of the Committee appointed by the Academy of Na- 

 tural Sciences of Pliiladelphia, at the meeting held October 10, 

 1876, "to investigate and report upon the introduction of new 

 species of insects and plants through the medium of foreign ex- 

 hibits at the Centennial Exhibition," I have the honor to present 

 the following report, with the desire that it may be forwarded to 

 the proper authorities of the Centennial Commission, at whose 

 instance the Committee was appointed. 



The Committee is composed of the following members of the 

 Academy" : — 



Dr. Joseph Leidj"^, Dr. George H. Horn, Mr. Thomas Meehan, 

 Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt, and Dr. John L. Le Conte, Chairman. 



It was apparent tliat while the labors of the botanists of the 

 Committee could not properly commence until next spring, wlien 

 careful observation will recognize an}^ new introductions of plants, 

 the entomological investigations should be made as speedily as 

 possible. Accordingl}', Dr. Horn and myself, availing ourselves 

 of the admission cards which had, with great liberalit3', been sent 

 to the members of the Committee, went frequentl}- to the exhibits 

 in the Main Building and Agricultural Hall, and made collections 

 in all the agricultural products from foreign countries, which were 

 found to be infected. 



Most of the species which we obtained have been already dis- 

 tributed over the globe by the ordinary channels of trade, and 

 nothing is to be apprehended from the addition of a few hundred 

 thousand specimens, to the incalculable millions of individuals of 

 the same kind, that we have now domiciled amongst us. 



I am happ3' to add that tlie species found, which luive not been 

 previousl}^ observed in the United States, will be innocuous ; 

 they are dependent for their supi)ort upon plants which do not 

 grow here, and which would be of no commercial value to us if 

 they were cultivated. 



I may therefore announce, with moderate certainty-, that no 

 evil result will occur to our agricultural interests, from any intro- 

 duction of foreign insects, by means of the Centennial Exhibits. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876- 



Before concluding this report, by a list of the insects collected 

 in the buildings, it is our duty to notice some remarkable differ- 

 ences between the exhibits from different countries, indicating the 

 care with which the specimens had been prepared, and the means 

 taken to prevent depredation by insects. 



All tliose exhibits which had been moist wlien packed, or had 

 become moist or mouldy on the voj'age or during the Exhibition, 

 abounded m BrucJius, Cal audita, and Tineidse ; while those which 

 were protected against moisture were unattacked. It stands to 

 reason, in fact, that insects dependent on a circulating fluid for 

 their vitality, and having, during their early stages as lame, a 

 very soft and moist body, cannot obtain in properly dried grains 

 tlie requisite amount of moisture for tlieir sustenance, and the 

 egg, if previously deposited, will remain, like an ungerrainating 

 seed, for a favorable moment to develop, or if hatched, the larva 

 w'ill die at an early stage. 



It was, tlierefore, with great pleasure that we recognized the 

 appreciation of this almost self-evident proposition b}^ the De- 

 partment of Agriculture of Portugal. The exhibits in bottles 

 were entirely free from all mould and infection, and in each bottle 

 was a small quantit}' of caustic lime,' wrapped in paper, which, by 

 its hygrometric power, had kept the specimens perfectly dry. 



We do not intend to have it inferred, from what is above stated, 

 that all the other exhibits were in a condition inferior to that of 

 Portugal ; on the contrary', many of them, as well as many from 

 our own States, were in most admirable order; but, so far as we 

 could learn, this good condition had been produced b}' great per- 

 sonal care, and the removal from time to time of the infected 

 parts; not by the iise of a preventive agent. 



While investigating the occurrence of a small species of Tineide 

 in the Italian exhibit of Leghorn straw, I learned that some im- 

 portations of straw goods, b}' Messrs. Albinola and Bailey, of New 

 York, had been attacked by insects. I immediatel}'' wrote to those 

 gentlemen, who, with great courtesy, sent me two collections of the 

 insects infesting a recent importation which had become mouldy 

 from being packed in a moist condition. The names of tlie species 

 contained in this set are appended ; they are all either carnivorous 

 or fungivorous, and can therefore do no harm ; some of them have 



' The nature of the powder was suspected by the Committee, but the 

 determiuatiou was made through the analysis of Mr. Edward Goldsmith. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



not been before observed in the United States, or their habits 

 have not been noted. What is more important, however, is tliat 

 none of tlie straw goods were attacked b^' moths eitlier on tliis 

 or previons occasions. It is therefore to be inferred that the 

 moth in the Italian exhibit was the grain-moth of the seed of the 

 grass which produced the straw used in the manufacture of the 

 Italian goods. What confirms this inference is that the moths 

 occurred in but one case, in wliich were exhibited several bunches 

 of the straw with the heads of grain still remaining. 



Prof. C. V. Riley, in the Proceedings of the Academy of 

 Science of St. Louis, Oct. 2, 1876, has given a list of the species 

 which he collected at the Centennial Exhibition, with very useful 

 and suggestive remarks. We have obtained specimens of all the 

 species mentioned b}- him except one Crambide Lepidopteron, 

 from the Eg3'ptian exliibit, for which we sought without success. 

 At an earlier period in the season, and with smaller attendance 

 of visitors, the number of species in our list would perhaps have 

 been largex*, but no additional advantage would have been ob- 

 tained therefrom. The species, with the few exceptions noted, 

 are either innocuous or previously introduced. 



J. L. Le Conte, Chairman^ 

 Geo. H. Horn, 

 Joseph Leidy. 



Lint of Species collected in the Centennial Buildings in 

 Foreign Exhibits. 



COLEOPTERA. 



Silvanas sarinamensis. 



Argentine Confederation and Brazil, in various materials. 

 Laemophlceus ferruginous. 



In beans, Brazil. These two species lived upon the debris of 

 Bruchus, and were accompanied by a species of Fsocus. 

 Bruchus picturatus, Fahrans. 



Argentine Confederation; in seeds of two Leguminous plants, 

 one of which produces a screw bean, resembling Strombocarjnis 

 of Arizona. 



Bruchus, sp. 



Allied to B. jyrosopis, of Arizona and Xew Mexico. Argentine 

 Confederation ; also in the screw bean. These two Bruchi are 

 depredated upon l)y tliree small species of Iclineunionida?. 




2t0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Bruchus, sp. 



Of larger size and more uniform color. Argentine Confederation, 

 in the seeds of another Leguminous plant, allied to Prosopis. 



Bruchus, sp. 



Of larger size and more mottled color; in the seeds of three 

 other Leguminous plants of the Argentine Confederation. 



Bruchus scutellaris. 

 Venezuela, in beans. 



Bruchus obsoletus. 



In beans from various countries of both continents. 

 Bruchus pisi. 



In peas ; Spain and Portugal. 

 Bruchus, sp, 



A small broad species, with transverse prothorax; % rather 

 uniforml}^ clothed with gray-brown pubescence ; antenna? as long 

 as the body ; ? black, with a grayish-brown broad dorsal stripe 

 on the prothorax, and a small transverse white band on each 

 elytron, extending from the side margin nearly to the suture, a 

 little in front of the middle ; thighs not toothed. Length .09 

 inch. 



Brazil, in a bluish-gray variety of bean. I cannot identifj^ this 

 species among those described in Schonherr's work ; it is of the 

 same form, and belongs to the same division as B. jyisi, but is 

 much smaller, and quite different in other characters. It is the 

 only one of the species here mentioned which is capable of being 

 introduced ; and I have, therefore, given such a description as 

 will enable it to be recognized. The antennae are onlj^ feebly ser- 

 rate. This species is mentioned by Mr. Riley as B. granarius, 

 but it does not agree with the figure of Olivier. 



Bhizopertha pusilla. 



Victoria, Australia; in wheat. This insect has been previously 

 introduced into the United States in Persian wheat, distributed 

 by the Patent office. ( Vide Lee. Class, Col. N. Am. p. 208.) 



Calandra oryzae. 



This destructive insect abounded in exhibits of corn (maize), 

 wheat, and rice from every part of the globe. I also observed it 

 in arrowroot from Brazil. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



Arseocerus cofTeae. 



Eating the thin shell of cacao-nuts from Brazil, but apparently 

 not attacking the interior of the nut. Previousl}' introduced both 

 in the Atlantic and Pacific States. 



LEPIDOPTERA. 



The ordinaiy and well-known Tineidas, which affect wheat and 

 corn (maize) {Biitalis cerealella^ Ephestia Zese), abounded in ex- 

 hibits from various countries. There was a smaller form which 

 is mentioned above, as coming from the grass seeds of the Leg- 

 born straw. Specimens have been identified by Prof. C. Y. Riley 

 as the common grain moth, B. cerealella. 



HYMENOPTERA. 



Besides the three Ichneumonidse parasitic on the Bruchi in the 

 Argentine Confederation exhibit, I observed a small species of 

 Pteromalus parasitic on the Tinea, Bruchus obsoletus, or Galandra 

 oryzse which infested a small bag of Brazilian wheat. 



List of the Species found in Mouldy Specimens of Straw 

 Goods from Italy. 



These species were collected by Messrs. Albinola and Bailey, in 

 New York. They are either carnivorous or fungivorous; those of 

 the latter kind live upon the mould, which, as determined b}^ Dr. 

 J. G. Hunt, is a species of Aspergillus, previously known in this 

 countr}'. 



Lathridius filiformis. 

 Lathridius striatus. 

 Corticaria, sp. 



(Xot identified.) 

 Holoparamecus singularis. 



Has not been previously observed in the United States. 

 Silvanus surinamensis. 

 Silvanus advena. 

 Lsemopliloeus ferruginous. 

 Murmidius ovalis. 



Habits not previously observed in the United States, though its 

 occurrence was known. 

 Tribolium ferrugineum. 




^'^^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



November 21. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-six members present. 



[1876. 



J^ovember 28. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the ehalr. 

 Fifty-three members present. 



A paper entitled "Xotes on Fishes from the Isthmus of 

 Panama, collected by Dr. J. F. Bransford, U. S. X.," by Theodore 

 Gill, was presented for publication. 



Louis F. Benson and Walter H. Ashmead were elected members. 



Dr. A. S. Packard, of Salem, Mass., W. H. Holmes, U. S. Geol 

 Surv., and Laureugo Malheiro, of Lisbon, were elected corre- 

 spondents. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed:— 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2t3 



NOTE ON A CIRRIPEDE OF THE CALIFORNIA MIOCENE, WITH 

 REMARKS ON FOSSIL SHELLS. 



BY T. A. CONRAD. 



BALAXUS. 



H. Estrellamis, Con. 



This fossil of the Californinn Miocene, Tamiosma gregaria^ Con- 

 rad, I snpposed at one time to be a member of the Rudistse^ and 

 I also described it as BaJanus e^f7-aUam(S ; but not satisfied that, 

 as one of the Budisfce, it sliould be in the Miocene formation, I 

 have further studied its characters, and now conclusively^ refer it 

 to the Balanidse. Tlie only difference I can find to distinguish it, 

 except specifically, from other species of the genus Balonus is 

 that its basis is filled the entire lengtli with septa. These septa 

 do not essentially differ from those of Balanus lasvis, Brug. In 

 the only specimens found, the opercular valves are wanting, but 

 a portion of the basis on wliich the^- rested is well preserved, and 

 shows the same kind of surface as in other Balani. 



HELIX. 



H. Strangulata, Adams. 



A very perfect specimen of this species is in the collection of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences, which I obtained at Yorktown, 

 Yirginia, while collecting Miocene fossils at that locality, although 

 I do not recollect whether I found it in the marl or on the surface, 

 probabl}' the latter. It cannot be proved to be a Miocene fossil. 



INOCERAMUS, Sow. 



This genus is distinguished from Haploscapha (Cafillus^ 

 Brong.) b}' a straight hinge line and the crenulations on the 

 hinge, partly internal ; while Haploscapha has an irregular or 

 waved hinge, the right valve being alate about the beaks and 

 having a sinus posteriorly, as represented in D'Orbigny's figure, 

 pi. 412, of his "Paleon. Franc." The ligament is wholly- external, 

 situated in crenulations more numerous than in Inoceramiis.^ and 

 often in an irregular line. Pictet descriljes Inoceramua as 

 "lamclleux," and says "La principale difference qui existe entre 




2t4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T6. 



ces coquilles et celles des Inoceraraes consiste clans la structure 

 du test, qui chez les Catillus est fibreux dans sa couclie externe, 

 rejiellant presque celui des Trichites." Mr. Meek adopts 

 Catillus as a subgenus of Inoceramus without stating a distin- 

 guishing character, but I cannot find one species of Catillus 

 among those he describes as species of it excepting I. deformis- 

 One characteristic difference between the two genera is the ex- 

 tremely thin shell of Catillus over the middle portion of the disk 

 and the gradual thickening towards the margin; indeed, the shell 

 of the two species I have described is so thin that it has onlj^ been 

 preserved entire by the adhesion of multitudes of Ostrea congesta 

 on the back. This thinness is not in consequence of any loss of 

 the original test, for the pearl3^ laj^er is well preserved. Dr. C. A. 

 White has given a figure of I. deformis, Meek, which is a true 

 Catillus, as a section of the shell shows. " Report upon Geog. 

 and Geolog. Explor., pi. xv., fig. 1." Catillus attains a far larger 

 size than Inoceramus, and is known only in the chalk. Although 

 the interior of the valves is well preserved, no trace of a muscular 

 impression is seen. The laminated structure of Inoceramus, 

 where the shell is preserved, will readily distinguish it from the 

 coarsel}^ fibrous structure of Hajjloscapha ( Catillus). 



The latter originated near the close of the chalk period, while 

 the former is found in the lias as well as in the chalk. 



APHRODIXA, Conrad. 



Mr. Meek makes this cretaceous genus a subgenus of Callista, 

 which I think an error. Callista did not exist in the creta- 

 ceous period, nor Dosinio2Jsis. 



IDONEAECA, Conrad. 



I make the same objection to Mr. ]\[eek's retaining this creta- 

 ceous genus as a subgenus of Cucullsea. It is a large group of 

 fossil shells, which can be instantly known by the hinge character, 

 and which disappeared entirel}' at the close of the cretaceous 

 period. 



MUTELIDJE. 



HAPLOTH^RUS. 



This extinct genus was the forerunner of Columba, Lea (Leila, 

 Gray), to which it is nearly allied, the topical species having much 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2*75 



resemblance in outline to Columha Blainvilleana, Lea, but wants 

 the cardinal tooth of that genus. The binge more nearl}' resem- 

 bles that of Columha [Leila) casfeluaudi, Hupe, but the anterior 

 muscular impression is very different from that of C. castelnaudi. 

 Columha^ Lea, takes precedence of Leila, Gray, according to 

 date of publication. 



AXCHURA. 



In the Geology of Xorth Carolina, by Prof. Kerr, I have iuad- 

 A'ertly referred Anchura pennata, Morton, to liis Rostellaria ros- 

 iiafa, pi, 2, fig. 28. Arene Gaj-olinensis of the same work is erro- 

 neously referred to plate 2, fig. 19, It should be pi. 1, fig. 19. 



ETEA, Conrad. 



To this genus must be transferred Grassatella monmoiithensis, 

 Gabb; C. transversa, Gabb; C. Delaiuarensis, Gabb ; and G. 

 prora, Con. ; all of which were described from casts without 

 knowledge of the hinge characters. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T6. 



NOTES ON AMEKICAN CRETACEOUS FOSSILS, WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF 

 SOME NEW SPECIES, 



BY W. M. GABB. 



After fifteen j-ears, during which I have been engaged con- 

 stantl}' at other geological and palteontological labors, but have 

 not lost sight of ray first love — the Cretaceous fossils of the 

 Atlantic region of the United States — I have spent much of the 

 past summer in reinvestigating them. In this work I have been 

 materially assisted by the constantly enriching collection of the 

 Academy, and have received a large suite of fossils from Dr. 

 Little, the State Geologist of Georgia. Besides these. Prof. 

 Cook, of New Jersey, has loaned me all of the specimens from his 

 survejr collection that I required, so that I have it in my power, 

 while describing a number of new forms, to correct man}' of ray 

 own juvenile errors, as well as similar ones of others, which must 

 result during the publication of a large number of small, isolated 

 papers. Manj^ of the fossils of Xew Jersey are onh' known as 

 internal casts in the marls, and, while very unsatisfactor}', require 

 names, if only provisional ones, to assist the field geologist in the 

 identification of strata. Some of these have from time to time 

 been rediscovered in the gra}^ marl, commonly known as the 

 " Riple}' group," and we may reasonably hope that all will 

 eventually be fully described. This Riple}- marl is a deposit now 

 known to extend from New Jerse}' around through the coast 

 States to Tennessee. It has been found in ail of these States 

 except Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, and South Carolina, that is 

 to saj', it seems coextensive with the Atlantic Cretaceous. It is 

 a finegrained, gray material, in which, unlike most of the rest of 

 the formation, the shell substance is preserved, and, although the 

 shells are often distorted, their specific as well as generic charac- 

 ters are beautifully preserved. It is especially favorablfe for the 

 stud}!' of the bivalves, since, in nearly all cases, the hinges can be 

 exposed. The fossils are extremelj- fragile, alike from the softness 

 of the inclosing material and from the fact that the animal matter 

 seems to have totally' disappeared, without being replaced b}' an}' 

 other cementing substance. Still, with care, the greater part of 

 the fossils can be extracted and afterwards hardened with gum. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 277 



SO as to fit them for study and preservation. In the following 

 paper I have enumerated all the recognizable species sent me by 

 Di'. Little, since very little is known of the fossils of Georgia, and 

 in that sense this is a geographical list : — 



Nal'tilus, Linn. 

 N. Bryani, n. s. 



Shell discoidal, sides flattened, nearly parallel ; dorsum regu- 

 larly rounded ; umbilicus small ; aperture elongate, emarginate 

 to about a third of its length by the preceding whorl ; siphuncle 

 central, small ; septa slightly arched forwards, close to the um- 

 biliciis, and very gentlj- backwards on the middle of the side of 

 the whorl. Surface unknown. 



Greatest diameter 3.5 inches; width of aperture L9 inch; height 

 of mouth from lunbilical margin 2 inches, from the dorsum of 

 included whorl L4 inch. 



From the yellow Cretaceous limestone of Vincenttown, Xew 

 Jerse}-. Two fragments, one comprising half of a volution, well 

 preserved, showing seven septa; the other, a smaller fragment of 

 a larger specimen, useful only as confirming the specific deter- 

 mination. 



This species is markedly distinct from N. DeJcayi^ tlie only 

 other described species in New Jersey-. Its flattened sides are 

 entirely unlike the globose form of that species. It seems nearest 

 to N. Sowerbiainis, D'Orb., resembling that species in the size of 

 its umbilicus and in the style of the septa, as well as in being 

 compressed. But our species differs in having the sides more 

 parallel, in the whorls increasing somewhat less rapidly in size, 

 and in the septa being further apart and less sinuated throughout. 

 I take great pleasure in dedicating it to my friend, Colonel T. M. 

 Bryan, who has, by his assiduous collecting, added much to our 

 knowledge of the New Jersey fossils. 



N. sp. indet. 



1 have also received from Col. Bryan another form from the 

 dark marls of Xew Jersey, near Vincenttown. This is distinct 

 from either of the known species, having very sinuous septa. It 

 is represented by fragments too imperfect for description. 



N. Dekayi, Morton. 



Synopsis Cret. p. 33, pi. 8, f. 4 ; pi. 13, f. 4. 



A distorted specimen from Pataula Creek, Georgia, from Dr. 



Little. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18*76. 



N. elegans, Sby. 



It is not improbable that the shell referred b}^ me (in the 

 Report of the Palaeontology of California, vol. 1, p. 59, pi. 9, fig. 

 .3) to N. Texanus, Shnmard, may prove to be Sowerby's species. 

 It seems to agree quite closely, not onl}' in its outline and pro- 

 portions, but in the shape of the septa and in the ornamentation. 

 The only difference I can detect is that, in the Californian shell, 

 the ribs are a trifle larger and less numerous — a very unreliable 

 character in these shells. Dr. Shumard's species, only known to 

 us by a description from imperfect specimens, may also have to 

 be put down as a synon^^m. 



Ammonites, Brug. 



A. pla,centa, Dekay. 



Ann. N. York Lye. vol. 2, pi. 5, f. 2. 



A large specimen from Pataula Creek, Georgia. 



A. Trinitensis, Gabb. 



A. Gibboiiianus, Marcou, Geol. N. A. p. 35, pi. 2, fig. 2 ; not id., Lea, 

 Trans. Amer. Pbilos. Soc, 2 ser. vol. 7, p. 254, pi. 8, f. 3. 



In my paper on the fossils of South America, noAv going through 

 press (Journ. Acad. 1816), I have pointed out tlie differences be- 

 tween the Texan fossil and that from South America, and I now 

 propose the above name. Marcou foimd his specimen on one of 

 the tributaries of the Trinity River, Texas. 



Hamites, Park. 

 H. ? torquatus, Morton. 



Syn. p. 45, pi. 15, flg. 4. 



A straight fragment, with the Ammonites placenta^ some three 

 inches long. I have it also in my collection from Uniontown, 

 Ala., showing part of the septum. 



Fusus, Lam. 

 ExiLiFUSus. New subgenus. 

 Shell very long, slender, fusiform, spire high; aperture produced 

 into a long, slender, twisted canal. 



This group differs from the true genus Fusus, as restricted, by 

 its twisted, slender canal. In this character it approaches some 

 of the Nex>tuneee^ but its high spire and strongly costate whorls 

 show that it is more nearly allied to the true Fusus. Exilia 

 of Conrad (Journ. Philada. Acad., 2 ser., vol. 4, p. 291) has a 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



"beak perfectly straight,'' and ma}' be onl}' an extremelj' slender 

 Fusiis. The author does not describe the shape of the outer lip, 

 and gives us no clue as to its family relations, whether it belongs 

 with the Fusinae or the Pleiirotomidae. The lines of growth on 

 mj' shell are slightl}' sinuous on the upper part of the bod3' whorl, 

 though not enough to be called the notch or sinus of a Surcula, 

 the genus which it most resembles in that family. I attribute 

 their shape to the generally curved outline of all of the body 

 whorl. 



The figure of Fusus Diaboli, Pal. Cal. v. 1, pi. 18, fig. 35, is a 

 very accurate reproduction of one specimen before me, the ex- 

 tremity' of the canal being broken awa}'. But I have another, 

 nearl}' of the same size, vrith the same character of the spire, in 

 which the aperture and canal are larger than the spire, the canal 

 being twisted exactl}- as in the present described species. In the 

 specimen figured, as above, the lines of growth are slightly 

 sinuous also, so that further research may prove that this is 

 really a member of the Pleurotomidse. 



F. (E.) Kerri, n. s. PI. 17, f. 1. 



Shell elongate, slender; spire high ; whorls about six or seven, 

 rounded on the sides and bordered on the upper margin b}^ a rib 

 adjoining the suture. Surface marked by about a dozen oblique 

 heavy ribs, beginning on the top of the whorl adjoining the mar- 

 ginal thickening, most prominent on the upper angle of the whorl, 

 and disappearing a little below the middle. In addition to these 

 characters, their entire surface is covered by numerous closely 

 placed, fine, revolving ribs. Upper part of the aperture sub- 

 elliptical, continued below into the twisted canal, twice as long as 

 the upper portion. Columella thickened and marked by a com- 

 paratively prominent angle, similar to that of Busycon, where the 

 curved canal begins. 



Length 1.25 inch; width 0.37 inch. 



A single specimen in the Museum of the Academy, from the 

 Cretaceous of Xorth Carolina (Ripley group). Named in honor 

 of Prof. W. C. Kerr, State Geologist of North Carolina. 



SuRCULA, H. and A. Ad. 

 S. strigosa, n. s. 



Shell very long and slender; spire and aperture of nearly equal 



length; whorls broadly rounded, perhaps eight in number (apices 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18T6. 



broken), those of the spire marked by a peculiar revolving con- 

 striction just above the suture. Surface cancellated by numerous, 

 small, longitudinal ribs, somewhat smaller than their interspaces, 

 and crossed by still smaller revolving lines. These latter con- 

 tinue over the whole surface to the end of the canal. 



Length 3 inches ; width 0.6 inch. 



From a light-colored Cretaceous marl from Holradale, N. J., 

 from the collection of the X. J. Geological Survey, kindlj' loaned 

 to me by Prof. Cook. 



This is the most slender species of the genus with which I am 

 acquainted. The shell substance is entirely destroyed, but the 

 surface characters are preserved, all except the lines of growth. 

 I am consequently unable to describe the shape of the outer lip. 

 The groove above the suture causes an appearance, at first sight, 

 as if the top of the whorls was bordered by a thickening ; but the 

 separation of the volutions is still marked by a slight fissure in 

 tlie suture, which is placed about a tenth of an incli below the 

 groove. This seems to have died out on the body whorl. 



S. (Surculites) Mathewsonii, Gabb. 



Fusus, id., G., Pal. Cal. v. 1, p. 83, pi. 18, f. 33. 



S. (Surculites) io., Gabb. 



? Fasciolaria, id, G., Pal. Cal. v. 1, p. 101, pi. 28, f. 314. 



Both of these species, as seen from better specimens than I had 



originally, have the broad, shallow sinus on the upper part of the 



wdiorl, characteristic of Surcula. The first certainl}' belongs to 



Mr. Conrad's subgenus; the latter, however, with its tuberculated 



volutions, may have to be separated, though there is no named 



division into which to remove it. Generically, or subgenericall}^, 



they only differ in this character. 



Drillia, Gray. 

 D. Georgiana, n. s. 



Shell elongate, fusiform; spire elevated, longer than the mouth ; 

 whorls seven or eight, flattened, bordered by a thickened rim 

 adjoining the suture; below this is a groove followed by a series of 

 heav3' longitudinal ribs, about 12 or 13 to a volution. These ribs 

 are not w-ell defined beyond the middle of the body whorl. Cross- 

 ing the entire surface are numerous revolving lines, appearing as 

 small ribs on the upper whorls, and as narrow impressed grooves 

 on the last whorl. Notch narrow and shallow fas determined 



I 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



from lines of growth), and corresponding to tlie groove below the 

 thickened upper margin of the shell. Canal moderately long; 

 details of it and of the mouth unknown. 



Length 1.5 inch; width 0.4 inch. 



From the Ripley group, Pataula Creek, Clay Co., Georgia; Dr. 

 Little. 



A pretty species, resembling Tiu-ris RipJeyana, Con. (Journ. 

 Acad., 2 s., V, 3, pi. 35, f. 21), in ornament, but more slender, with 

 a higher spire and shorter body whorl. 



Tritonium, Linck. 



Subgenus Lagexa, H. and A. Ad. 

 T. (L. ?) edentatum, n. s. 



Shell thin, short, broadly subfiisiform ; spire moderately 

 elevated ; whorls seven ; spire turriculated ; whorls of spire sub- 

 angulated and sloping above, terminated in a thickened, beaded 

 margin adjoining the suture, and constricted below this margin ; 

 bod}' whorl regularly rounded. Upper whorls marked by nume- 

 rous longitudinal ribs, sometimes visible on tlie upper part of the 

 bod}' whorl, sometimes obsolete. These are crossed by revolving- 

 lines, always distinct on the spire and on the anterior part of the 

 body whorl, but sometimes obsolete on the middle. Aperture 

 broad, subelliptical ; canal short, very slightlj' recurved. Outer 

 lip simple; inner lip lightly encrusted. No tooth on the posterior 

 part of the inner lip. 



Length 1.4 inch ; width 1 inch. 



A smooth, rounded shell, with ornamented spire, rather jolain 

 body volution, and no varices. AVith the following species, to 

 which it is closely allied, it seems to form a distinct group in the 

 Tritons, nearest, however, to Lagena, to which I have referred it, 

 but differing in the absence of the tooth. 



Common on Pataula Creek, Georgia; Dr. Little. 



T. (L. ?) inter ruptum, Con. (sp.)- 



Cfienmitzia, id., Con., Journ. Acad., 2 ser., v. 3, p. 333, pi. 35, f. 15. 



With the preceding. Mr. Coni-ad describes the species as hav- 

 ing the " spire prominent ;" but my specimen, as well as his figure, 

 shows that it is not so long as the mouth. 



Chemnitzia ? (jlorioaa, Koem. Kried. von Texas, p. 40, pi. 4. 

 f. 3. From the remarkable resemblance in the style of ornament 

 19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18Y6, 



of this shell to the two preceding, I have little doubt that it is sub- 

 genericall}' identical with thera. Roemer's fanciful restoration of 

 the anterior end of the mouth, of course, goes for nothing. 



Nassa, Lam, 

 N. globosa, n. s. 



Shell thin, subglobose; spire moderately elevated ; whorls six 

 or seven, the upper whorls costate, the ribs not reaching to the 

 suture ; above the ends of the ribs is a narrow concave space ; 

 suture bordered by a slight thickening of the margin of the suc- 

 ceeding volution ; suture not impressed, although well marked — 

 partly obliterated by irregular lines of growth. Bod}' whorl not 

 ribbed, but ornamented by small indistinct and sometimes almost 

 obsolete revolving lines. Aperture oblique ; outer lip simple ; 

 inner lip rather heavily encrusted b}^ a narrow deposit, and termi- 

 nating in front in a heavy rib, hardl}^ visible externall}' ; anterior 

 notch narrow and deep. 



Dimensions of a small specimen: length 1.0 inch; width 0.9 

 inch. Other specimens, too imperfect for measurement, indicate 

 a size nearly twice that given. 



From the Riplej' group of North Carolina, Museum of tlie Aca- 

 demy, from Prof. Kerr, and from the same deposit on Pataula 

 Creek, Georgia, from Dr. Little. 



Fasciolaria, Lam. 

 F. Slackii, Gabb. 



Proc. Acad. 1861, p. 322. 



Described from a single internal cast from New Jerse3^ The 

 longitudinal ribs are large, showing strongl}^ on the cast. The 

 revolving sculpture, if it existed, is unknown. From the shape 

 and from the cast of the columellar fold it most probably belongs 

 to Meek's subgenus Piestochilus. 



Subgenus Cryptorhytis, Meek. 

 F. (C.) crassicosta, n. s. 



Shell small, broadly fusiform ; spire moderately elevated, 

 number of volutions unknown, suture well marked and undulated; 

 body whorl subangulated, flattened above, convex in the middle, 

 and rapidly constricted in advance. Surface bearing about nine 

 large rounded longitudinal ribs, beginning near the suture, 

 strongly developed on the npper angle and disa^jpearing with 




18V6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



the convexity in advance ; the entire surface to the end of the 

 canal, is crossed bj' small but well-defined revolving elevated lines, 

 showing a slight tendenc}' to alternation in size. Aperture 

 broad above, constricted into a moderately short twisted canal ; 

 inner lip encrusted terminating in advance in a single heavy 

 oblique fold. 



Length about 1.0 inch ; width about .65 inch. 



A single specimen from Pataula Creek, Georgia; Dr. Little. 



It is somewhat distorted in shape by pressure, and has lost 

 part of its apex ; but its heavy ribs and strongly twisted columella 

 will distinguish it. 



F. (C.) Kerri, n. s. 



Shell small, subfusiform, spire shorter than the aperture, 

 whorls five, suture ininutely channelled; upper whorls sloping 

 convexly ; body whorl regularly- convex and gradually contracted 

 in advance into a moderately long and somewhat curved canal ; 

 surface marked by a few large square revolving ribs, five on the 

 convex part of the bod}' whorl, and numerous smaller ones in ad- 

 A'ance ; these are crossed M' faint longitudinal ribs, more closely 

 placed than the first. At the points of crossing, these two sets 

 of ribs develop well-marked little nodes or tubercles. On the 

 spire, the longitudinal ornaments do not appear, but each volu- 

 tion carries three revolving ribs, the upper of which is smallest 

 Aperture gradually narrowed in front ; inner lip somewhat en- 

 crusted and bearing a small oblique fold on the angle. 



Length .75 inch; width .4 inch. 



From the Ripley of X. Carolina ; Prof. Kerr. 

 F. (C) obliquicostata, n. ?. 



Shell small, fusiform, spire not quite as long as the aperture ; 

 whorls about five or six, upper surface rounded, subtruncated ; 

 body whorl widest above, top sloping, tapering in front. Surface 

 marked by a few large oblique ribs with broad concave inter- 

 spaces ; these ribs begin at the suture, are most prominent on the 

 angle of the whorl and disappear in front. The entire surface is 

 also crossed by numerous fine revolving strias. Aperture gradu- 

 ally narrowing in advance; inner lip sinuous, encrusted; fold 

 small, very oblique ; canal moderatel}'^ twisted. 



Length .9 inch ; width .45 inch. 



Locality ; with the preceding. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



From F. (C.) crassicosfa, this shell differs in its much more 

 slender form, its higher spire, less twisted canal, and in the longi- 

 tudinal folds being much more compressed laterally and placed 

 obliquely instead of direct. 



Pyropsis, Con. 

 P. Eichardsonii, Tuomey, sp. 



Pyrula. id., Tuomey, Proc. Acad. 1855, p. 169. 

 Perissolax? id., Gabb, Syn. Cret. p. 69.' 



Tudicla (^Pyropsis') perlaia, Con., J. Acad. 2 s., v. 4, p. 288, pi. 46, 

 f. 39. 



This species is found in New Jersey, and is abundant in the 

 wliite limestone of Prairie Bluff, Ala. Dr. Little has sent me one 

 internal cast from Pataula Creek, showing that it grows to a dia- 

 meter of nearly two inches. 



P. Bairdi, M. & H. (sp.) Meek. 

 Pyrula Bairdi, M. & H. 



With the additional information furnished by Mr. Meek's illus- 

 trations, especially by the wood-cut, p. 371 of his admirable 

 memoir, I am convinced that there is no generic, or even subge- 

 neric difference between his species, and that of Mr. Conrad's 

 type, lying before me ; unless it may be found in the end of the 

 canal of the Eastern species, and which has never j-et been found. 

 P. Richardsonii has a slender canal, probably not umbilicated, 

 but this is not ground enough for a separation. The characters 

 of the inner lips of the two species are identical. 



P. elevata, Gabb. 



Bapa, id., Gabb, Jonrn. Acad. 2 s., v. 4, p. 301, pi. 48, f. 12. 

 Tudicla, id., Gabb, Syn. Cret. 1861, p. 85, id. Meek, Check List Cret. 

 No. 750. 



Described from the brown sand}'' marl of Burlington Co., N. J. 



But a single internal cast has ever been found and this corre- 

 sponds so nearlj'- in size and shape with P. Bairdi, that I suspect 

 it of being identical. It is certainly not the same as P. Richard- 

 sonii {perlata Con.), as Mr. Conrad intimated in Journ. Couch., 

 1868, p. 248. 



' This arose from an error, I having confounded Tuomey's two species, 

 and transposed them in their genera. I intended to put this under Tudicla, 

 and to put trochiformis, which is a round bodied shell, under Pcrixsolax. 

 Even this, however, would have been wrong, since, as will be seen below, 

 on obtaining more material I am obliged to separate it. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 285 



? P. trochiformis, Tuomey (sp.). 



Pi/rulit, id., Tuomey, Proc. Acad. Nat. Science, 1855, p. 169. 

 Tudicla, id., Gabb, Syu. Ci'et.,p. 85. 



Shell moderately large, spire somewhat elevated ; body whorl 

 convex on the sides, sloi^ing above, canal long and straight; sur- 

 face marked by prominent acute revolving ribs, about nine on the 

 body whorl and others pretty regularly placed, to the end of the 

 canal; between these are concave interspaces, and those on the 

 body whorl are, in some specimens, crossed by faint longitudinal 

 ribs. The inner lip is encrusted, and, just where the mouth con- 

 tracts into the canal, bears a prominent bend like that in some of 

 the i^asczoZarias, but without folds ; or better, resembling somewhat 

 Busy con. 



Length 3. '75 inches ; width 2.0 inches. 



A fossil, common as casts in Xew Jersey, and in the white lime- 

 stones of Alabama. The above description is from a specimen in 

 the Museum of Yale College, from Uniontown, Ala. It is the 

 only one showing the entire surface, that I have ever seen, and 

 also the only one retaining its entire canal. 



I have long had doubts as to the generic relations of this shell, 

 and have referred it provisionally to Piji'opsis^ since that is the 

 nearest clearly defined genus. The columella of my specimen is 

 not perfect enough to warrant me in asserting that the inner lip 

 may not be like that of Pyropsis, though I think, as described 

 above, it is more like that of Busycon. Should this eventually 

 prove to be the case, the species, with probably both the following, 

 must be separated as a distinct genus, for which the name Tro- 

 chifiisus would not be inappropriate. 

 P. septemlirata, Gabb. 



Cancellaria, id., Gabb, Proc. Acad. 1860, p. 94, pi. 2, f. 10. 



A shell closely allied to the preceding, and also marked by 

 revolving sculpture, but differing in having a much lower spire, 

 less globose body whorl, tapering into the canal much more regu- 

 larly in front. The species was described from internal casts, 

 from the New Jersey marls, and in no case has the canal been 

 preserved. Enough, however, has been obtained to show the 

 peculiar curve of the columellar margin. 

 P. Alabamensis, Gabb. 



C'lnrellaria, id., Gabb, Journ. Acad., 2 s., v. 4, p. 301, pi. 48, f. 14. 



Also described from an internal cast, showing slight traces of 

 longitudinal ribs. Another, smaller specimen, from Mississippi, 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



also a cast, shows that the surface had both longitudinal and 

 revolving ornaments. There were about 12 or 13 longitudinal 

 ribs, crossed by eight or ten smaller, revolving ribs. This also 

 shows part of a long, straight canal. The longitudinal ribs and 

 the high spire separate this from all other species yet known in 

 the genus. I also have it, but in a very imperfect state, from New 

 Jersey (Yincenttown, Col. Bryan). 



YoLUTiD^, Fleming. 



Almost every author Avho has written on this family has sug- 

 gested a different grouping of the genera, and no two fully agree 

 in regard to the range of the genera themselves. Among the 

 more modern writers, H. and A. Adams proposed three sub- 

 families : Cymhiinse^ Zidoninae, and Volutinse. Under the first, 

 they place the genera Cymbium, llelo, with the suligenus Ausoba, 

 and Aiilica. In Zidoninae, the genus Zidonia=VoluteUa ; and 

 in the last subfamily, genera Callijjara, Cymbiola, Scaphella, 

 with subgenus Alciihoe, Voluta, Harpida, Fulgoraria, with sub- 

 genera Aurinia, Lyria, with subgenera Enseta and Volutilithes. 

 In the appendix to their work these authors change the arrange- 

 ment, as follows : — 



Genera Cymbium. 

 Melo. 



SCAPHA. 



VOLUTA. 



Subfamily VOLUTINS. 



Subgenera Aurinia (Livonia, Gray). 

 Aulica. 

 Cynibiola. 

 Alcithce. 



fulgoraria. 

 Lyria. 



Volutilithes. 

 Callipara. 



ZlDONA. 



Chlorosina. 

 Harjnda. 



Harpella. 

 Enaeta. 



Ausnba (Nobilia, Gray). 

 Ericusa{Scaphella, G., not Sw.). 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



Subfamily SCAPtlELLIN^. 

 Genus Scaphella (Amoria, Gray). 



They also adopt Dr. Gra3-'s subfamily Volulimitrinee for the 

 genus Volutimitra. 



Dr. Gray, in the Guide to S3'stematic Distribution of Mollusca 

 in the British Museum (1857), proposed a somewhat different 

 arrangement, as follows : — 



a. YOLUTINA. 



jYETINA. 

 Genera 1. Yetus. 



2. Cymbium. 



3. Scapha. 



4. fulgoraria. 



5. Callipara. 



6. YOLUTA. 



7. Lyria. 



Subgenera Lyria. 

 Enaeta. 



8- YOLUTELLA. 



tfAMORIANA. 



9. A MORI A. 



h. YOLUTIMITRIN^. 



10. YOLUTIMITRA. 



And finally the subftxmily Porcellanina, made up of Porcel- 

 lana {= 3Ia7-gviella), Closia (=Volutella, Sw.), and Persicula. 

 This latter group must be thrown out. 



In 1873, Dr. Theodore Gill proposed an arrangement of the 

 Families of Mollusca, in which he separates the family into two 

 groups : — 



T^ , ,. ., . ( Yolutimitrina, Gray. 



a. V olutimitrnioe = -^ i j 



(Amoriana, Gray. 



6. Yolutin^^-!^'^^"^"^^'^^'^^^- 

 (Yetina, Gray. 



This division, as I have been personally informed by the author, 

 is based on the dentition ; a character not always the most 

 reliable, though in this case it seems to be sustained bj' the others. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



Reversing the position of the groups, as placed by Dr. Gill, it 

 seems to me that the following genera include all of the known 

 species, and are sufficiently clearly circumscribed : — 



Subfamily YOLUTIN.E. 



Cymbium, Klein, Auct. 



Yetus, Adams, Gray. 



Melo, Humph. 

 T3'pe Voluta melo. 



ScAPHA, Gray (not Humph, nor Klein). 



Subgenus Aurinia, H. and A. Ad. 



Type S. dubia. 



AuLiCA, Gray. 



Ausoba, H. and A. Ad. 



T^'pe V. aulica. 



YoLUTELLA, D'Orb. 1839. 



Zidona, H. and A. Ad. 



Type V. angulata. 



H. and A. Adams have renamed this genus because the name 

 Volutella was pi*eoccupied both by Perry and Swainson. But since 

 neither of their names stand, D'Orbigny's, being the oldest, must, 

 and Zidona becomes a synonym. 



'Callipara, Gray, 184T. 

 Type G. bullata. 



Cymbiola, Sw. 1853. 

 Type C. ancilla. 



Alcitike, H. and A. Ad. 1853. 

 Tj-pe V.fulgetrum. 



YoLUTA, Linn. 



Harpula^ Sw. 

 Type V. musica. 



Although V. vexillum, Swainson's t3-pical species, looks suffi- 

 ciently unlike V. musica to have warranted a separation, it only 

 requii'es a study of a large series of specimens, of the few species 

 in this group, to satisfy one that the division has not even a sub- 

 generic value. V. miisica alone varies through half a dozen spe- 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



oific names, some of the extreme forms almost as round as vexillum. 

 I have fossil specimens from the Pliocene of Costa Rica, almost 

 exactly the shape of V. vexiUum, without a tubercle on the angle 

 of the whorl, and marked with as many folds on the inner lip as a 



FuLGORARiA, Schum. 1817. 



FvJrjuraria^ H. and A. Ad. 



T^'pe F. rupestris^ Gm. 



YoLUTODERMA, Gabb. New genus. 



Shape similar to Falgoraria^ which it also resembles more or 

 less in surface sculpture; apex not papillate; inner lip marked 

 by from thi-ee to Aa'c well-marked folds, not very oblique, and of 

 pretty uniform size. This is a group of shells characteristic of 

 the cretaceous rocks, and, perhaps, peculiar to them. They are 

 all somewhat slender, and are marked by longitudinal ribs, not 

 always well defined, and by revolving ribs ; the columella is alwaj's 

 straight or nearly so, and the folds are as isolated and distinct as 

 those of Turbinella. But the most strongly distinguishing cha- 

 racter is the entire absence of the irregularly rounded mass at the 

 apex of the shell, one of the best characters of Fnhjora7^ia. The 

 species have been referred to Volv.ta, Vohdilithes, Ful^oraria^ and 

 even Fasciolaria. V. Navarroensis^ Shum., Gabb, Palteontology 

 of California, vol. i., pi. 10, f. G, may be taken as the type. The 

 genus includes such species as — 



V. elongata, d'Orb. sp. 



Voluta, id., d'Orb., Pal. Fr. Cret., v. 2, p. 323, pi. 220, f. 3. 

 Volutilithes, id., Stol., Sitz. Akad. Wien., lii. p. 74. 

 Fulgurana. id., Stol., Pal. Ind., p. 87, pi. 7, f. 1-9. 

 Voluta TricMnopoUtensis, Fbs., Tr. Geol. Soc. Lond. v. 7, p. 133, pi. 

 15, f. 5. 



This shell is very variable in height, and carries three equal 

 coluraellar folds. Specimens before me, sent to me by Dr. Stoliczka, 

 from Trichinopol}^, show that the apex is as acute as in my Cali- 

 fornian shell. 



Another shell, accompanying this, marked Fasciolaria rigida^ 

 Stol., bi. cit., p. 109, pi. 10, f. 10-10 {Voluta rigida, Baily), evi- 



' For further remarks on this subject see Crosse, Journal de Conchy- 

 llologie, vol. 19, p. 271. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [18t6. 



deutly also belongs to this genus, as well as do Fasc. carinata, 

 StoL, and F. assimilis, Stol. 



AuRiNiA, H. and A. Ad. 1853. 



Tj'pe A. duhia. 



YoLUTOMORPHA, Gabb. Xew genus. 



Shell elongate, fusiform ; whorls cancellated b}" longitudinal 

 and revolving ribs. Columella with one very oblique fold, and 

 sometimes one or more smaller secondary folds. In shape this 

 genus is not unlilve the two preceding genera, but it differs from 

 them all in having essentially a single lai'ge oblique fold. When 

 more than one occurs, the secondary folds are smaller than the 

 large primary. 



Type Volutilithes Gonradi, Gabb, Journal Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

 2 s., V. 4, pi. 48, f. 10. 



V. CRETACEA, Con., loc. cit., pi. 47, f. 18, also belongs to this 

 genus, and V. Delawareyisis, Gabb, Proc. Acad. 1861, p. 322. 



RosTELLiTES, Con, 1855. 

 T3'pe B. Texana^ Con., Emory's Report, ^Mexican Boundary Sur- 

 vey, p. 158, pi. 14, f. 2. 

 A curious genus, the most slender of the Volutes, with numer- 

 ous equal plaits on the columella, and with the outer lip somewliat 

 expanded anteriorly. 



YoLUTiFUSUS, Con. 1866. 

 Type F. typus, Con., J. Conch., 1866, p. 67, pi. 3, f. 2. 

 Very characteristic of the Pliocene. 



Lyria, Gray, 1847. 

 Tj'pe L. Belessertii. 



ENiETA, H. and A. Adams, 1853. 

 Types L. Cummingii, harpa, etc. 

 Marked by a tooth in the middle of the outer lip, seems to be but 

 a division of Lyria. 



Volutilithes, Swains, 1831. 

 Type V. abyssicola. 

 A genus abundant in tlie Eocene rocks, perhaps found in the 

 Cretaceous, and represented in tlie living fauna by but a single 

 species. 




18';6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 291 



Atiileta, Coll., 1853. 

 Types A. rarispina and A. Tuomeyi, Con., J. Acad., 2 s. v. 4, pi. 



47, f. 35. 

 A form separated hy Conrad from Volulilithes on account of a 

 heavy callosity deposited on the spire above the aperture. 



Leioderma, Conrad, 1865, Proc. Acad., 1865, p. 184. 

 Type L. leioderma, Con., J. Acad., 2 s. v. 4, p. 292, pi. 46, f. 32. 

 Includes also Volulilithes cretacea, Con., loc. cit., v. 3, p. 333, pi. 

 35, f. 16. 



Subfamily SCAPHELLIN^, H. and A. Ad. 

 Volutirnitrinae, Gill ; Volidimitrina and Amoriana, Gray. 



ScAPHELLA, Swains., 1832. 



Amoria, Gray. 



Type S. Junonia. 



VoLUTiFUSUS, Con., 1866. 



Type F. hjinis, Con., J. Conch., 1866, p. 67, pi. 3, f. 2. 



Very characteristic of the Miocene, but does not include V. 



Junonia, as Mr. Conrad intimates. 



YoLUTiMiTRA, Gra3\ 

 Types V. Groenlandica. 



In addition to the above, there are perhaps several other genera 

 among the fossil Volutes. V. rarispina, Lam., with which I am 

 only acquainted b}' published figures, may be an Athleta, or it may 

 be new. It certainly cannot be placed in any other genus. 



The two shells, Athleta purpuriformis and A. scrobiculata, of 

 Stoliczka, were referred to that genus from a misconception on 

 the part of the author. They have not the characteristic callous, 

 are subglobular, instead of being subfusiform and angulated, and 

 the folds are very oblique, and on the anterior part of the columella. 

 Tlie genus might be called Ptychoris. 



Ficulopsis Stoliczka, Pal. Indica, p. 84, founded on Pyrula 

 Pondicherriensis, Forbes, is a Ficus, with folds on the columella. 

 I have just received from the Cretaceous of Georgia an allied form, 

 with a flattened columella and with a single fold. I cannot agree 

 with the Doctor in placing it in the Volutidee. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [18TG. 



Megaptygma, Con., founded on a Miocene species, described by 

 me under the name of Valuta sinuosa, differs only from Volutifusus 

 in having the folds unusually heavy. Together with Mr. Conrad, 

 I have compared it with several species of the latter genus, and 

 find that some of the species, especialh'- V. mutabilis, Con., vary 

 so in this character, that we have agreed that the distinction is 

 not a valid one. V. mutahilis varies not only in the presence and 

 absence of folds, but also in their direction when present, and in 

 the shape of the anterior half of the shell. Some specimens are 

 perfectly straight in advance, while others are as twisted as the 

 t3'pical form of V. Junonia. In fact I am hy no means convinced 

 that Volutifusus should be separated from Scaphella. 



Leioderma, Con. 

 L. canalis, Con. sp. 



Comis, id.. Con., J. Acad., 2 s. v. 3, p. 331, pi. 35, f. 23. 

 Volutilithes cretacea. Con., J. Acad., 3 s. v. 3, p. 333, pi. 35, f. 16. 



Common at Pataula Creek, Clay Co., Ga. A long, slender, 

 fusiform shell, with a polished surface, high spire, with the upper 

 whorls faintly ribbed longitudinally. The outer lip is slightly 

 thickened at its junction with the body whorls, and obliquel}' 

 truncated in advance. The columella bears a single faint very 

 oblique fold. Its surface, although polished, shows strong lines 

 of growth. Mr. Conrad agrees with me in the above synonj-ni}'. 



I have a cast, apparently' of the same species, from Crosswicks, 

 New Jersey. 



VoLUTODERMA, Gabb. 

 "i V. biplicata, Gabb. 



Volutilithes biplicata, Gabb, Journ. Acad., 3 s. v. 4, p. 300, pi. 48, f. 6. 

 Eostellites Mplicatus, Meek, Cret. Check List, No. 690. 



But a single specimen of this species has ever been found. It 

 shows none of the surface, but its form is so peculiar that it can- 

 not be mistaken. Its two folds are in such a position that I have 

 little hesitation in referring it to this genus. 



V. sp. indet. 



Another form occurs in the brown marls of Vinccnttowu, N. J., 

 of which two internal casts have been found by Col. T. M. Bryan. 

 In size and general shape it approaches Volutomorpha Gonradi, 

 but has three strong transverse folds on the middle of the colum- 

 ella. From impressions on the inner fiicc of the cast of the outer 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



whorl its surface is covered b}' small longitudinal ribs, crossed by 

 numerous revolving lines, the characteristic sculpture of the genus. 



YoLUTOMORPHA, Gabb. 

 V. Conradi, Gabb. 



Voli/filithes, id., Gabb, Journ. Acad., 3 s. v. 4, p. 300, pi, 48, f. 10. 

 Bostellites, id.. Meek, Cretaceous Check List, Iso. 691. 



The typical species of the genus. A common fossil in Xew 

 Jersey. I have not seen it yet from other parts of our Cretaceous 

 deposits. It is a long, slender, fusiform shell, a little variable in 

 shape, but alwa3-s slightly subangulated on the upper part of the 

 whorl ; the middle is gently convex, with the sides converging in 

 advance. The canal is straight, and the columella bears one large 

 oblique fold. Sometimes one or two smaller secondary folds 

 occur. The surface is marked hy numerous longitudinal ribs 

 crossed by more closely placed revolving ribs. Impressions of 

 this surface in the matrix, and on the inner face of the cast of the 

 body whorl are not rare, but I had never seen even a piece of shell 

 preserved until a few days ago, when Col. Bryan brought me a 

 bod}' volution with a tliird of its surface covered with well-pre- 

 served shell. 



V. Abbotti, G.nbb. 



Volutilithes id., G., Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. 1860, p. 94, pi. 2, f. 7. 



The surface of this shell is as jet unkhown. The columella, 

 besides the large typical fold, carries also three smaller and more 

 transverse ones above. 



V. SafFordi, Gabb. 



Voladlithes id., Gabb, Journ. Acad., 2 s., v. 4, p. 300, pi. 48, f. 8. 



A strongly cancellated species, approaching the preceding in 

 form. 



V. bella, Gabb. 



Volutilithes id., Gabb, Jouru. Acad., 2 s., v. 4, p. 300, pi. 48, f. 7. 

 Rostellites id., Meek, Check List Cret. No. 689. 



A remarkably symmetrical fusiform shell, not ver}' rare in Xew 

 Jersey. Its surface is unknown. 



V. Kanei, Gabb, 



Voluta id., Gabb, Proc. Acad. 1861, p. 322. 



V. mncronata, Gabb. 



Voluta id., G., loc. cit. p. 322. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [18Y6. 



ROSTELLITES, Coil. 



R. nasutus, Gabb, sp., Meek, Check List, No. 692. 



Volutilithes id., G., Journ. Acad., 3 s., v. 4, p. 300, pi. 48, f. 9. 



This shell has normally three folds on the columella, but I have 

 seen specimens with five or six. It is the most slender of all the 

 Volutidse of New Jersey, and can be distinguished, even in 

 casts, b}' the entire absence of longitudinal ribs or plications. 

 Prof. Geo. Cook, State Geologist of New Jerse}^, who has loaned 

 me all the desirable specimens of the survey collection, has at last 

 obtained this shell, showing the surface. Unlike most of the marl 

 fossils, these specimens, of which there are several, are fossilized, 

 so that, while all shell structure is destroyed, being replaced by 

 marl, the surface characters are perfectly preserved. The species 

 is characterized b}^ about IV or 18 elevated, thin, revolving ribs, 

 those in advance placed ver}^ obliquely ; the interspaces are three 

 or four times as wide as the ribs. All the specimens are more or 

 less distorted, but enough remains to show that the outer lip was 

 broadly expanded, and, perhaps, even very slightly everted in 

 advance. 



From Pataula Creek, Clay Co., Georgia, Dr. Little has sent me 

 some imperfect internal casts which seem to belong to this species, 

 but which are unusuall}^ large. Better material may prove them 

 to belong to a distinct species. 



Ptychosyca, N. gen. 



Shell like Ficus in shape ; surface smooth (or sculptured ?) ; 

 inner lip bearing one very oblique fold on the anterior part of the 

 columella. 



This shell fills in a gap in the series of genera, and connects 

 Stoliczka's genus Ficulopsis with the true Ficus. Ficulopsis has 

 the same general style of sculpture as Ficus., but bears several 

 plaits on the columella, so like some of the Volutes that Dr. 

 Stoliczka united it with them in the same family. The present 

 genus has a fold, but it is small and very oblique. The posterior 

 notch, which the author mentions as doubtfully a generic character 

 in his species, seems, from a study of ours, to be so. In Ficus, 

 the outer lip shows a very slight trace of it; in our genus it is 

 more marked, while in the Indian fossil it develops into a regular 

 I'leurotomoid sinus. 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



P. inornata, n. s., pi. 17, f. 2, 3, 4. 



Shell small, regularly convex; spire small; number of whorls 

 unknown (apex destroyed on the only specimen) ; suture nearly 

 obsolete; surface without other marks than faint lines of growth; 

 body whorl convex above, tapering in advance, slightly constricted 

 by a broad, shallow, revolving groove in advance; canal short, 

 notched in advance ; outer lip very slightly notched posteriorly, 

 immediately adjoining the suture ; inner lip thinly encrusted and 

 bearing one xevy oblique fold. 



Length about 1.5 ; width about .75. The specimen is com- 

 pressed, so that, with the loss of the tip of the canal, the measure- 

 ments can be onl}^ approximate. The lines of growth, which are 

 distinct, enabled me to ascertain the details of the anterior end. 



A single specimen from the Riplej^ gi'oup, Pataula Creek, 

 Georgia ; Dr. Little. 



Gyrodes, Con. 

 G. abyssinis, Morton (sp.). 



yiUica id., Morton, Syn. Cret. p. 49, pi. 13, f. 13. 

 Gyrodes id., Gabb, Syn. Moll. Cret. p. 59. 



Described originally from Prairie Bluff, Ala. We did not know 

 the surface of this shell, until now I have received from Dr. Little 

 specimens from the Ripley group, from Pataula Creek, Georgia. 

 The surface is perfectly plain, slightly flattened adjoining the 

 suture, and with the umbilical margin rounded. It is marked 

 only by lines of growth, and has none of the crenatiou of the 

 upper edge, characteristic of Conrad's species G. crenata. It also 

 occurs, though rare, in New .Terse}'. 



G. petrosa, Morton, (sp.). 



Natica id., Morton, Syn Cret. p. 48, pi. 19, f. 6. 

 Gyrodes id., Conrad, Journ. Acad., 3 s., v. 4, p. 289, 

 G. alveata, Con., loc. cit. p. 289, pi. 46, f. 45. 



Originally described from internal casts from Prairie Bluff, Ala. 

 Mr. Conrad's species, from the Ripley group of Mississippi, was 

 described from shells retaining their surface. They are identical, 

 and we have the same species from Glassboro, N. J., from Colonel 

 Bryan, and from Mullica Hill, whence it was brought by Mr. 

 John Ford. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



Amauropsis, Morcli. 



A. paludinaeformis, H. nnd M. (sp.)- 



Natica id., H. and M., Mem. Am. Acad., Boston, v. 5, p. 389, pi. 3, 



f. 3. 

 A. id., M. and H., Proc. Phil. Acad. 1860, 185. 



In the Academy's museum are half a dozen specimens of this 

 species, brought by Mr. Conrad from Haddonfield, X. J. 



LuNATiA, Lam. 

 L. rectilabrum, Con. 



There is 3'et some confusion about this species. Mr. Conrad 

 described it as a Natica in the Journal Phil. Acad. 2 ser. vol. 4, 

 p. 344, pi. 35, f. 28. In m^^ synopsis of Cretaceous MoUusca, I 

 placed it as a synonym of Hall and Meek's concinna. In Hayden's 

 report, Mr. Meek refers it to H. and M.'s obliquata, and separates 

 concinna and obliquata on the ground that the latter has an oper- 

 cular groove, wanting in the former. This hardly seems to me to 

 be a valid specific difference, and I believe the synonymj'^ should 

 stand as follows : — 



L. obliquata, H. and M. (sp.), Meek, Cret. Check List, No. 672. 



Natica. id., H. and JI., Mem. Bost. Acad., v. 5, p. 389, pi. 3, f. 1. 



N. concinna, H. and M., loc. cit., p. 389, pi. 3, f. 2. 



If. moreauensis, M. and H., Proc. Acad., 1856, pp. 64, 283. 



Lunatia concinna. Meek, Haj'den's Rep., p. 314. 



N. rectilabrum. Con., J. Acad., 2 s. v. 4, p. 344, pi. 35, f. 28. 



N. acutispira, Shum., Trans. St. Louis Acad., 1860, p. 597. 



It is common everj-where in the Ripley Group, and Dr. Little 

 now sends it from Pataula Creek. The altitude of the spire, and 

 the obliquity of the body whorl differ considerably in the eastern 

 shell, as is frequentl}^ the case with Naticas, and, consequently, if 

 there is no difference except the presence or absence of a groove, 

 and a slight one at that, made by the operculum on the pillar lip, 

 the difference is too slight to divide them. N. acutiapira of Shu- 

 mard, of which I compared a specimen, some years ago, with the 

 Atlantic form, also comes into this synonym3% 



SCALA (Klein), Humph. 1797. 

 Scalai'ia, Lam., 1801. 

 S. (Opalia) Thomasi, n. s. 



Shell slender, thin, subulate, whorls numerous, increasing gra- 

 dually in size, rounded, and curving abruptly to the suture; surface 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



marked b}^ numerous, small, ver}' thin plates, and crossed In- well 

 marked though small revolving lines, base bordered bj'^ an angular 

 carina. From the white limestone of New Jerse}^, a single speci- 

 men given me by Prof. W. H. B. Thomas. Its nearest all}^, S. (0.) 

 Sillimani, Morton, from Prairie Bluff, Ala., is a somewhat larger 

 shell, with a wider apical angle, the varices, instead of being 

 numerous thin plates, are fewer and thickened, and the revolving 

 sculpture is much finer. From S. anmdata, Morton, found with it 

 in New Jerse}^, it can be at once distinguished by its much nar- 

 rower apical angle, very much smaller size, and in the ornaments. 

 In that species, in the adult stage, the ribs become rounded on 

 their edges ; in the young shells they are squamose, though not so 

 numerous, and tiie revolving sculpture is fine and closely placed. 

 From the following species it can be known b}' the plates being 

 smaller and thinner, bj- the revolving sculpture, which in this is 

 marked, while in that it is either very fine or wanting. Further, 

 in this species, the carina at the base of the whorls is merely a 

 strongly marked angle, over which the longitudinal markings cross 

 without change ; the plates very regularly decreasing in promi- 

 nence from the sides to the base of the whorls, and reaching the 

 lip as mere threads. In that species the carina is a strong rib, 

 and the longitudinal plates continue well elevated and thick to 

 the end. I have not described the mouth, because in the only 

 specimen it is in great part broken away. From a trace in the 

 umbilical region, it seems to have been bordered b}' the usual 

 thickened lip. 



S. (0.) cyclostoma, n. s. 



Shell smaller and slightl}'^ more slender than the preceding ; 

 whorls seven, cross sections circular; surface marked by numerous 

 prominent recurved ribs, one of which on each whorl is thickened, 

 showing a periodical arrest in growth ; between these ribs is very 

 minute revolving sculpture, a little more distinct on the earlier 

 whorls. Aperture circular, bordered by a very thick expanded 

 lip ; base of bodj^ whorl bordered by a strong rib. 



Length .55 inch, width .25 inch. 



In the large varices this is not unlike S. Sillimani. but it is 



distinguished by its smaller size, narrower whorls, less thickened 



longitudinal ribs, and by the base. In that species the base is 



much flatter, the revolving carina is less evident, and each rib, on 



20 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



tbe angle is reflexed back into a little lip or notch ; these ribs 

 also become much less distinct on the base. 



S. (0.) annulata, Morton. 



Scalaria, id., Morton, Synopsis, p. 47, pi. 3, f. 10. 



A character exists in this shell which has never been mentioned. 

 It has a broad open nmbilicus, bordered by an angle, as well 

 marked as that of Architectonica, though, of course, not so large. 



I have 3'et another species from Georgetown, Georgia, from Dr. 

 Little, nearest to S. annulata in the character of its ribs, but ap- 

 parently more like S. Sillimani, in the shape of tlie shell. It 

 consists of only one whorl and a part of another imbedded in a 

 hard rock and too imperfect for description. 



PUGNELLUS, Con. 



Dr. Little has sent me from the Riplej' marl of Pataula Creek, 

 Clay Co., Georgia, specimens of Conrad's original Stromhus 

 densatus, Jonrn. Acad., 2 ser. vol. 3, p. 330, pi. 34, f. 6, which have 

 enabled me to discover that it is a very different shell from that 

 ■which the same author called Pugnelha^ densatus., in the 4th volume 

 of the same work, p. 284, pi. 46, fig. 31. It is more than twice as 

 large as adults of the latter species, the canal is straight, and tlie 

 outer lip is not so thickened. The fir.st species, that from the 3d 

 volume, must retain the specific name, and that in the 4th volume 

 must be renamed. I, therefore, name it F. typicus, since that 

 species was the one for which the genus was first founded. More 

 perfect material than I yet possess may even prove that P. den- 

 satus may belong to my subgenus Gymnarus. 



Anciiura, Con. 

 A. arenarum, Morton, sp. 



Bostellaria, id., Morton, Syn. Cret., p. 48, pi. 5, f. 8. 



B. arcuarium, d'Orb., Prod. Pal., v. 2, p. 237. 



Chemnitzia distcms, Con., Journ. Acad., 3 s. v. 3, p. 333, pi. 35, f. 30. 



With the preceding, from Dr. Little. 



A. Texana, Roem., sp. 



Scalaria, id., Roem., Kroid von Texas, p. 39, pi. 4, f. 11 a-b. 

 Chemnitzia, id.. Meek, Check List, No. 658. 



" Gabb, Pal. Cal., vol. 2, p. 261. 

 Aporrhais, id., StoUczka, Pal. India, vol. 2, p. 231. 

 Stoliczka sa3's he examined, in the museum in Bonn, the original 

 of Scalaria Texana., "and found that it was based upon an imper- 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



feet specimen of an Aj)orrhai?.''^ On re-examining my own speci- 

 men of the species I see nothing incompatible with its belonging 

 to the genns Anchura. a view which is snstained by Roemer's 

 flgnre, and doubtless Dr. Stoliezka found some remains of the 

 expanded lip, or of the terminal ascending suture line. He did 

 not understand the genns Anchura., restricting it to those species 

 in which the outer lip bears two points, one posterior, the other 

 running parallel with the canal. As I have shown elsewhere the 

 genus cannot be so restricted, and there are not even valid grounds 

 for retaining Meek's Drepanochilus as a subgeneric division. 

 Stoliezka called two species of Anchura by the name of Ajjorrhais, 

 and, therefore, I am satisfied that he meant this same group. The 

 long, slender spire of the species in question is very like many 

 species of Aiichura, but is wholl}' incompatible with Ajiorrhaia. 



Aporrhais, Dillw, 

 ?A. bicarinata, n. s. 



Shell small, spire elevated, number of volutions unknown; upper 

 whorls bearing an angle in the middle, from which the surface 

 slopes inward to the suture; below this angle it slopes verj' slightly 

 outwards to the sutures below; bod}' Avhorl bearing two angles 

 on the middle, the upper slightly the largest; outer lip unknown, 

 inner lip lightlj' encrusted, expanded, and slightly reflected, pro- 

 ducing a groove which runs from the posterior angle of the aper- 

 ture, parallel with the mouth, down to the canal. 



Width of body whorl, less the expanded lip, about 0.5 inch. 

 This species is described from two fragments from Pataula Creek, 

 Georgia, sent me by Dr. Little. The}^ are so mutilated that I do 

 not know the outer lip, the canal, nor the upper whorls of the 

 spire. In fact, nothing remains except the body volution and the 

 one adjoining it. Both show the very remarkable character of the 

 inner lip, so that I am convinced it is not an accidental result of 

 crushing. The form of the body whorl is very similar to the little 

 shell described by Mi*. Meek, from the Yellowstone region, under 

 the name of Aporrhais biangulata. It has the same two carinas, 

 and, like that shell, is smooth, unlike it, not showing, under a 

 magnifying glass, any trace of sculpture. The most marked dif- 

 ference exists in size, our species being larger than Meek's magni- 

 fied figure (Hayden's Report, pi. 19, fig. 6 b). Another difference 

 occurs in the spire. In that all of the upper whorls arc rounded. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISYG 



ill this the upper carina of the bod}' whorl is continued on the mid- 

 dle of the upper whorls, the siiture following the lower carina. The 

 peculiar character of the inner lip is not mentioned in Mr. Meek's 

 description, as it certainl}^ would had it been present. As to the 

 generic relations of the present species, it may belong to ^4;wr- 

 rhais^ and I have so referred it on account of its close specific 

 relation to the Northwestern species, or it ma^^ prove to be an 

 Anchura. In this group the generic determination cannot be 

 certain until we have all of the parts of the perfect adult shell, 

 the classification resting almost entirely on the manner in which 

 the adult forms its mouth. 



TuRBiNOPSis, Con. 



This genus seems to be not remote from TricJiotropis, resem- 

 bling the subgenus Iphince in form, but differing in having a thick 

 shell, and in bearing a rather obscure fold on the inner lip close 

 to the anterior end. This fold is not visible externally, but can 

 be seen if the outer lip is broken awa}^ or on casts. 



T. Hilgardi, Con., Journ. Acad., 2d ser., vol. 4, p. 259, pi. 46, fig. 29. 

 Cancellaria, id., Gabb, Syn. Cret. Moll., p. 43. 

 T. depresms, Gabb, Proc. Acad., 1861, p. 331. 



Found ill Xew Jersej', Delaware, Alabama, and Mississippi. 

 M3- name given to casts from Xew Jersey must stand as a s3'nonym. 



Gyrotropis. New genus. 



Shell thin, resembling Trichofropis in form, spire elevated : 

 umbilicus open like in Iphince and Turhinopsis ; surface biangu- 

 lated like in the typical form of Trichotropis^ but covered also 

 with numerous veiy thin foliated varices like Marex. 



A peculiar genus, combining a series of characters which ally 

 it closel}^ to Trichotropis^ but markedly different in the presence of 

 thin plates covering the surface, and expanded to an unusual 

 degree. 

 G. squamosum, n. s., pi. 17, fig. 5. 



Shell moderate in size, turbinate; spire about as high as the 

 length of the moutii, whorls eight, apex acute, body whorl bicari- 

 nate, the carina high and very thin; outline sinuous in front to 

 the umbilical margin, concave between the carinas and above the 

 upper one to the suture; upper carina carrietl on the middle of 




18*76.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



all the upper whorls to the apex; suture channelled, the cliannel 

 formed by the upper surface of the lower carina, the succeeding 

 whorl being soldered to tlie outer edge of the plate-like ridge; 

 umbilicus open, narrow, deep, bordered b}- the sharp, acute angle 

 of the base of the volution; surface ornamented hy numerous 

 very thin, squamose, murex-like varices, most marked on the an- 

 terior part of the shell, these are all crossed by closel}' placed 

 revolving lines, somewhat alternated in size. Aperture broad, 

 outer lip thin, inner lip rather heavily encrusted. 



Length, 1.1 inch; width, 0.9 inch. 



From Snow Hill, North Carolina, from the Ripley marl. Col- 

 lection of the Academy. 



TuRRiTELLA, Lam. 

 T. encrinoides, Morton, Synopsis, p. 47, pi. 3, fig. 7. 

 Pataula Creek, G-eorgia, Dr. Little. 



Laxispira. iSTew genus. 



Shell spiral, dextral, whorls with a circular cross section, few 

 in number, and so rapidly descending as to form an open spiral ; 

 aperture simple, lips thin. 



A curious genus, the relations of which are not clear to me. I 

 propose it to receive some shells which have been long known as 

 internal casts in the marls of New Jersey, but of which the sur- 

 face was unknown until quite recently. In general form they 

 might be compared to a partially uncoiled Turritella. From that 

 genus they differ, however, in the whorls not being in contact, and 

 from Vermetus and the allied genera in being regular spirals, but 

 not having the apex either turritelloid or attached. Another 

 analogy, though perhaps onl}^ one of external resemblauce, might 

 be adduced in such shells as Euomphalus circinaiis, Goldf., or in 

 some of the Delphinulas. 

 L. lumbricalis, n. s., pi. 17, f. 6, 7. 



Shell with a circular cross section, whorls about as far apart as 

 the diameter of the whorls, three or four in number; surface 

 marked by numerous small, closelj' placed revolving ribs. 



This description is from a small specimen from the Ripley inarl 

 from Haddonfield, N. J., presented to the Academy by Mr. Con- 

 rad. Casts over two inches long and about half an inch in diam- 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



eter of aperture are common in the glauconite marl, and appa- 

 rently belong to the same species. 



BivoNiA, Gray. 

 ?B. cretacea, n s. 



Shell tubular, irregularly coiled in the )''oung stage; curved, 

 straight, or irregular as it grows older; surface irregularly wrin- 

 kled b}^ lines of growth; aperture circular, substance thick. 



Average diameter of shell .25 inch to .3 inch. 



I propose this name for a shell consisting of a contorted tube 

 common in the Ripley marls, and which shows so few characters 

 that it is hard to describe it. I have never seen any signs of at- 

 tachment, and no two specimens are of the same shape. Dr. 

 Little has sent me a good series from Pataula Creek, Georgia. 



Endoptygma. New genus. 



E. umbilicata, Toumey (sp.), pi- 17, f. 8, 9. 



Phorus umbilicdtus, Tourney, Proc. Acad., 1855, p. 1G9. 



This shell was described by Tuomey from internal casts well 

 known in the Cretaceous of Mississippi and Alabama. It differs 

 from the typical Phorxis^ Montf. {Xenophora^ Fisch.) in having a 

 strong revolving plate inside, nearly midway between the umbili- 

 cal and outer margin on the base, leaving a groove on the cast. 

 The irregularly pitted upi)er surface shows that the shell agglu- 

 tinated foreign bodies to its surface in the same manner as in the 

 genus from which I propose to separate it. Figure 8 shows the 

 position of the internal plate, as represented by a groove on the 

 cast; figure 9, a side view of a smaller specimen. 



Ataphrus, Gabb. 

 Palaeontology of California, vol. 2, p. 171. 

 Additional material has enabled me to become better acquainted 

 with this genus, and obliges me to modify a little the generic 

 description. The inner lip is rounded above, on the body whorl, 

 and merges insensibly into the adjoining surface, covering up the 

 umbilicus ; but, instead of being round all of the way down, as 

 described, it ends abruptly just at, or a very little in advance of, 

 the umbilicus, in a little tubercle, on the outer or front face of the 

 pillar, below which the lip is slightly grooved. The position I 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 303 



assigned it, associated with Oxysfele and Photinula^ is correct, it 

 differing from tlie former in having the tubercle and the anterior 

 groove, instead of being flattened ; and in wanting the angular 

 termination of the latter. 



The figure of A. craasus is incorrect, in that it makes the pillar 

 lip round all of the way down. 



A. compactus, Gnbb. 



Littonna, id., G., Pal. Cal., v. 1, p. 131, pi. 20, f. 89. 



This is a member of the genus, but the figure and description 

 are incorrect in the one character of the inner lip. Better speci- 

 mens than the original (which, like that of A. crassus, were 

 slightl}'^ weathered) show that the groove should onl}- have been 

 represented as extending half -way up the inner lip, the upper half 

 being regularly rounded and terminating in the tubercle mentioned. 

 The anterior end of the mouth also is rounder than the figure. 



In addition to the above, I have another species from the creta- 

 ceous of North Carolina. This shell, from the character of its 

 fossilization gives us another character, the pearl}^ structure; an 

 additional proof of its family affinities, and one which was not 

 attainable in its Californian congeners. 

 A. Kerri, n. s. PI. 17, f. 10. 



Shell small, turbinate ; spire slightly elevated, whorls five, con- 

 vex above and below, and obscurely angulated in the middle; 

 suture well marked, following the angle in all the upper whorls, 

 but in the adult shell, for the last fourth of a volution, descending 

 at a slightl}' increased angle. Entire surface covered hy small 

 closely placed revolving ribs with acute interspaces. Aperture 

 circular, outer lip retreating very obliquely from the suture and 

 then regularl}' curving downwards on the middle of the upper half 

 of the whorl; edge acute. Inner lip covering all of the minute 

 umbilicus and then truncated abruptly, a little in advance, as 

 described above. 



Height 0.15 inch; diameter 0.21 inch. 



A beautiful little shell, closely allied to A. compactus, but dif- 

 fering in being less elevated, in the subangulated whorls, in the 

 more rapidly descending suture, near the mouth, and in the sculp- 

 ture. In compaclus the sculpture is a series of rather strong, 

 though small revolving ribs. In A. Kerri the ribs are so close 

 together, and the interspaces so small that in one case they be- 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



came neaii}^ obsolete. In another, liowever, they are stronger, 

 apijroaching- the Californian shell. A. crassus diflfers from this 

 species in the entire absence of revolving sculpture and of angu- 

 lation, and in its more sloping top. 



TuRNUS, Gabb. 



Subgenus Xylophagella, Meek. 

 T. (X.) contortus, Gabb. 



Teredo contorta, G., Proc. Acad., 1861, p. 323. 

 A study of the valve of this species shows it to be an allied 

 species to T. (X.) elegantula, but more oblique, and diftering in 

 sculpture. 



Martesia, Leach. 

 M. cretacea, Gabb. 



Fholas, id., Gabb, J. Acad., 2 s. v. 4, p. 393, pi. 68, f. 18 (tube). Id., 

 G. Proc. Acad., 1861, p. 324 (shell). 



Rare in the marls of New Jersey. The tubes are occasionally 

 found perforating wood, but replaced by pyrites. I have before 

 me an excellently preserved shell with both valves in contact, and 

 which shows clearlj^ the generic characters. 



M. cithara, Mort. sp. 



Pholas, id., Morton. Syn. Cret., p. 68, pi. 9, f. 2. 



P. pectorosa. Con., J. Acad., 2 s. v. 2, p. 293, pi. 24, f. 9. 

 Equally rare with the preceding. I have never seen but the two 

 respective tj'pes. 



Leptosolen, Con. 



L. biplicata, Con., J. Conch., v. 3, p. 15. 



Siliqaaria, id., Cou., J. Acad., 2 s. v. 3, p. 324, pi. 34, f. 17. 

 Not rare on Pataula Creek, Clay Co., Georgia, Dr. Little. 



Legumen, Con. 

 L. planulatus, Con. (sp.). 



SoUniya, id.. Con., J. Acad., 2 s. v. 2, p. 274, pi. 24, f. 11. 

 Lerjumen, id., Gabb, Sj^n. Cret., 1861, p. 133. 

 L. elliptica. Con., Journ. Acad., 2 s. v. 3, p. 325, pi. 34, f. 19. 

 L. appressa. Con., loc. cit., p. 32.5. 



A fine shell growing three inches long; several specimens from 

 Pataula Creek, Georgia. It is one of the most widely dittused 

 species in the Kipley marl. On comparing the various types of 

 the above names, I find that the names have been given to dif- 




18Y6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



ferent ages of the same shell. The lines of growth at the same 

 age in all the forms have the same direction. 



Periplomya, Con. 



Leptoinya, Con., Xat. Ad. 



Plicomya, Stol. 

 P. elliptica, Gabb. 



Anatina^ id., Gabb, Proc. Acad., 1861, p. 324. 



I place this shell under the above generic name, in accordance 

 with the opinion of Mr. Conrad, who has examined seven oi'iginal 

 specimens, and recognized its generic relations. It is an extremely 

 rare shell. 



Solyma, Con. 

 Xot Solemya (as in index). 



S. lineolatus, Con., Journ. Conch., vol. 6, p. 75, pi. 3, f. 9. 



Mr. Conrad has identified for me, under the above name, a little 

 shell out of the Georgia collection of Dr. Little, from Pataula 

 Creek. It is a little more than half as wide as long, the beak is 

 median, the two ends are veiy nearly equal, and the base is very 

 slightl}' convex. Although mine is a left valve, I am unable to 

 describe this part of the hinge, since, in cleaning aw\ay the marl, 

 the teeth were destro3'ed. These fossils are so fragile that, until 

 after being hardened b3^ g'mi, a breath will almost destro3'^ them. 

 Mr. Conrad, who cleaned this hinge, saw the teeth just at the 

 moment of their destruction. 



Pholadomya, Sb3^ 

 p. Littlei, n. s. 



Shell very large, gibbous, beaks large, prominent, nearly in 

 contact, placed about a third of tiie length from the anterior end. 

 Base irregularly convex, mosfc prominent a little behind the mid- 

 dle, from which it slopes up with a broad gentle curve to the 

 anterior end ; posterior end broader than the anterior and gaping. 

 Surface marked by about a dozen large acute ribs, with broad 

 concave interspaces. The anterior end is not costate, or very 

 faintly so ; the first well-marked rib descends directly from the 

 front part of the umbone directly to the base, curving slightly 

 forward at its lower end. The strongest ribs are on the middle 

 of the shell, and the}' are somewhat more widely placed, and 

 become more oblique posteriorly. 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187G. 



Length 6 inches, width from beak to base i inches, diameter of 

 both valves 3 inches. 



This is the finest species of the genus with which I am ac- 

 quainted, and I dedicate it with pleasure to Dr. Little, State 

 Geologist of Georgia, who sent me three well-preserved specimens, 

 one retaining the greater part of its surface, from Pataula Creek, 

 Cla}' County. It can be at once recognized by its few large ribs, 

 increasing rather than diminishing in size posteriorly, and in 

 being less oblique than P. occidentalism Morton, the only other 

 large species known in America. It is twice the linear size of 

 that shell. 



Cymbophora, Gabb. 

 C. lintea, Con. sp. 



Cardium {Protocardia) Unteum, Con., J. Acad., 2 s., v. 4, p. 278, pi. 



46, f. 17. 

 Veleda, id.. Con., Journ. Conch. 1871, p. 74. 

 Veleda, id., Con., Kerr's Geol. Rep. X. Car., p. 9, pi. 1, fig. 26. 



Dr. Little sent me a good suite of this species, and on uncover- 

 ing the hinge, I cannot find any valid difference between it and 

 my typical form, on which to base a generic separation, unless it 

 be on a peculiar cross striation of the lateral teeth, which I did 

 not observe in the Californian shells. The species attains a large 

 size. One specimen measures: length 4 inches, width 3 inches, 

 depth of single valve 1 inch. In its j^oung state it is thin, but 

 becomes quite thick as it grows older. I have ventured to asso- 

 ciate these large specimens with Mr. Conrad's species, although in 

 all of them the hinges are destroj^ed ; but I can find no good 

 grounds either in form or surface markings for separating them. 

 My smaller specimens on which I identified the species are an 

 inch and a half long. 



Schizodesma, Gray. 

 1 S. appressa, n. s. 



Shell small, subtriangular, flattened, thin ; beaks sub-central, a 

 little in advance of the middle ; anterior end rounded; posterior 

 end produced, subtruncated, cardinal margins sloping rather 

 rapidly from the beaks ; base broadl}' convex ; a distinct umbonal 

 ridge runs from the beaks to the posterior basal angle ; and one 

 less marked runs nearly parallel with the posterior cardinal mar- 

 gin to the upper angle of the truncated posterior end. Surface 

 marked only by lines of growth. The hinge agrees better with 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. SOT 



the above genus than with any other described ; in the left valve 

 the F-shaped tooth is delicate, though well marked, and encroaches 

 slightl}^ on the deej) ligament pit ; the lateral teeth are ver^- small, 

 short, and thin. The species can be at once distinguished from 

 the preceding by its shape. 



Length 1.2 inch ; width 0.9 inch. 



A rare species, from Pataula Creek, Georgia ; Dr. Little. 



Tenea, Con. 

 T. pinguis, Con. (sp.) 



Lucina, id., Cou., Jonrn. Acad., 2 ser., vol. 2, p. 275, pi. 24, fig. 18. 

 Biplodontn parilia, Con., loc. cit., vol. 4, p. 278, pi. 46, f. IG (not 8 



as in text). 

 Myda gibbosa, Gabb, loc. cit., vol. 4, p. 302, pi. 48, f. 17 (not f. 18 as 



in text). 

 Tenea parilis, Con., Jonrn. Conch., v. 6, p. 73, pi. 3, f. 12, id., Con., 

 Kerr's Geol. Rep. X. Car., p. 8, pi. 2, f. 25. 



Mr. Conrad and I redescribed this species simultaneonsl}' in the 

 4th volume of the Academy's Journal, both of us overlooking the 

 fact that it had been previously described as a Lucina and with a 

 bad illustration. It does not possess the angular base given to 

 it in vol. 2. 



Tellina, Linn. 



TelUnella, Gra^'. 

 T. (T.) Georgiana, n. s. 



Shell moderatel}' large, elongate ; beaks central, elevated, ante- 

 rior end produced, rounded ; base very slightly convex ; posterior 

 end subangulated below, arched above ; a strong urabonal ridge 

 runs from the beaks to the angle. Surface destroyed on the only 

 specimen I have seen. 



Length 2.6 inches ; width 1.25 inch. 



The impression of the hinge is preserved in tlie matrix, and the 

 shell is so strongl^^ characterized by its form that I have not hesi- 

 tated to describe it. It is from Pataula Creek, Georgia, in a hard 

 calcareous marl. 



Gari, Schura. 

 G. elliptica, n. s. 



Shell moderately large, very thin, subelliptical in outline ; 

 beaks central, somewhat elevated ; anterior end prominent above 

 the middle, retreating below with a gentle curve to the base ; 




308 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [18Y6. 



posterior end rounded, broader than the anterior ; base most pro- 

 minent a little in advance of the beaks. Surface marked by 

 irregular lines of growth. Ligaraental grove sti'ongly marked ; 

 binge consisting of two teeth in the right valve and one bifid 

 tooth in the left. 



Length 2.4 inches ; width 1.5 inch. 



This shell resembles in size and general shape G. texta^ Gabb, 

 of the Californian cretaceous, but is not so narrowed anteriorly ; is 

 less oblique!}' truncated posteriorly, and the beaks are more ele- 

 vated ; it also differs in the surface. 



From the Ripley marl, Pataula Creek, Georgia. 



Peron^egderma, Poll. 

 p. Georgiana, n. s. 



Shell small, thin, flattened ; elongate, beaks subcentral ; in one 

 case in the middle, in another a little posterior; cardinal margins 

 sloping about equall}' towards both ends. Anterior end promi- 

 nently and narrowl}^ rounded ; posterior rounded, subtruncate ; 

 base broadly and regularly convex. Surface marked by fine, 

 regular concentric lines. Hinge composed of minute teeth. 



Length 1.2 inch ; width 0.8 inch. 



hitermediate in form and size between T. Hofmani and T. longa 

 of tlie Californian cretaceous and difl;ering from both in having the 

 posterior cardinal margin convex, instead of concave. In this 

 character and in the rounded base, it differs also from (Eneplana, 

 Conrad, of the N. Carolina Cretaceous. Two specimens from 

 Pataula Creek, Georgia; Dr. Little. 



Cyprimeria, Con. 



C. depressa, Con., Kerr's Rep. Geol. N. C, p. 9, Palajontology. 



Dosinia depressa, Con., J. Acad., 2 s., v. 4, p. 278, pi. 40, f. 6. 



Sunguinolaria cretacea, Con., loc. cit., p. 277, pi. 46, f. 11. 



C. Cretacensis, Con., J. Conch., 1867, p. 9. 



G. cretacea, Con., J. Couch., 1869, p. 98, not C. cretacea (Dosinia) 



Zittel, Con., J. Couch., 1866, p. 102. 

 Dosinia Haddonfieldensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. 1861, p. 149. 



Georgia specimens, from Doctor Little, differ only from those 

 from Alabama in being nearly twice the size. 



C. torta, n. s. 



Shell large, discoidal, inequivalve, the right valve more convex 

 than the left: beaks in advance of the middle ; anterior end and 




187(5.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 309 



base regularly rounded; posterior narrowed, truncated and 

 strongl}' deflected to the left side, more so below than above. 

 Surface unknown. 



An internal cast from Georgetown, Ga., from Dr. Little, measur- 

 ing : length 3.0 inches, width 2.5 inches, internal diameter of valves 

 1.0 inch. 



From G. densata^ Con., the present species can be at once dis- 

 tinguished by its being shorter and in having the posterior cardi- 

 nal margin nearly straight. From G. excavata, Morton (sp.), by 

 being more quadrate and longer. From C. Texana, Roem. (sp.), 

 in being narrower and more produced behind. I have casts from 

 Texas of another species approaching this, certainly a different 

 species, but too close to describe without more material than mere 

 internal casts. 



Cardium, Linn. 

 Subgenus Fachycardium, Con. 



Stoliczka does not approve of Conrad's genus PacJnjcardium, 

 and is inclined to associate it with Pseudocardia. The t3-pe P. 

 Spillmani^ if it does not stand as a separate genus, should rather 

 be placed with Laeoicardium than with Protocardia, since it has 

 no ribs on the posterior face and only half a dozen obsolete radiat- 

 ing lines on the umbonal angle. It is clearly not a Lsevicardium, 

 from which it is separated by its verj' thick shell structure, its 

 elongate form, and bj' the irregular transverse corrugations follow- 

 ing the lines of growth. Most if not all of the Lsevicardia ai'e 

 thin, delicate shells with polished surfaces. Whether the East 

 Indian bisectum belongs to this genus or not, C. SjnUmani should, 

 in my opinion, be taken as the tj'pe of a separate genus, or sub- 

 genus. 



Casts are not rare in a sandstone at Georgetown, Georgia. 

 They show that the hinge teeth were enormously developed, 

 especially the laterals ; the muscular scars are verj' deep and, in 

 advance of the posterior muscle, there is a thickening of the shell, 

 broad and rounded and occup3-ing the position of the plate of 

 Gucullsea. The posterior portion of the internal margin is crenu- 

 lated, but more closely* than the part corresponding to the ribs on 

 the umbonal ridge. The species is also found as casts in the 

 brown and black marls of Xew Jerse}', and associated with them 

 I have a cast, more globose than any of the specimens that can be 




310 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1816. 



referred to Conrad's species. It is of the same size, shows traces 

 of the same surface markings, but is broader, rounder, and has 

 the beaks much nearer and more incurved tlian the internal moulds 

 of either the other Jersey specimens, or those of Mr. Conrad from 

 Mississippi. 



Subgenus Trachycardium, Morch. 



C. (T.) Carolinense, Con., Kerr's Rep. Geol. N. C. PalaBont., p. 7, pi. 2, f. 1. 



A Larger shell than C. Eufatdense, Con., more circular in outline 

 and less angulated on the umbonal ridge. It is very closely 

 related, however, and requires care and good specimens to distin- 

 guish it. 



Not rare at Pataula Creek, Georgia ; Dr. Little. 



C. (T.) Eufaulense, Con. 



Gardium {T.) id., Cou., Jouru. Acad., 2 s. vol. 4, p. 283, pi. 46, f. 12. 



A single valve from Quitman Co., Georgia ; Dr. Little. This 



shell is common in North Carolina. 



C. (T.) Alabamense, Gabb. 



Oardium multiradiatum, Gabb, Journ. Acad., 2 s., vol. 4, p. 395, pi. 

 68, f. 29 ; not id., Shj., Darwin's Geol. Obs. S. A., p. 251, pi. 2, f. 16. 



All three of these shells differ from the typical form of TracJiy- 

 cardium in having smooth ribs, in which character thej' approach 

 Cerastodei^ma, with which probably they might better be associated. 



Granocardium, Gabb. 

 C. (G.) Tippanum, Con. 



Gardium, id., Con., J. Acad., 2 s., vol. 3, p. 326, pi. 34, f. 8 b. 

 Granocardium, id., Gabb, Pal. Cal., vol. 2, p. 266. 



Casts of this species are not rare in a hard brownish sandstone 

 at Pataula Creek, Georgia. 



Crassatella, Lam. 



C. pteropsis, Con , J. Acad., 2 s., vol. 4, p. 279, pi. 46, f. 5. 



A rare shell at Pataula Creek, Georgia, though very common 

 in North Carolina. 



C. vadosa, Morton, Syn., p. 6(5, pi. 13, f. 12. 



G. liiplei/ana. Con., J. Acad., 2 s., vol. 3, p. 327, pi. 35, f. 3. 

 O. lintea, Con , loc. cit., vol. 4, p. 279, pi. 46, f. 5. 



C. Ripleyana of Conrad is the tj'pical form of the species, pre- 

 viousl}' des<'rii)ed by Morton ; convex on its posterior cardinal 

 margin in the young state and straight or slightly concave below 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



towards tbe posterior angle. C. lintea is a shell of the same 

 species, having attained but half its full diameter. I am not sure 

 but that C. CarolineyiHs, Con. (Kerr's X. Carolina Report, 

 Palseontological Appendix, p. G), should also be put down as a 

 SA'nonyna. I onl}' know it from the figure in the report, but the 

 shape is verj' close to lintea^ and the identity of this, I have 

 proven by a critical comparison of the original specimens. 



C. sp. indet. 



A cast in brown sandstone, sent by Dr. Little from Pataula 

 Creek, Geoi'gia. The impression of the hinge is perfectly pre. 

 served, as well as most of the outline. It is two and a half inches 

 long by two wide and rather flat. The posterior cardinal line is 

 slightly arched throughout, and the posterior end broadly rounded. 

 I do not think it belongs to any described species, but refrain 

 from naming it until better material is found. 



Anthonya, Gabb. 



Scambula, Con. 

 Anthonya, G., Palteontology of Cal. 1864, p. 181, pi. 30, f. 236, a. 

 Scambula, Con., Journ. Conch., 1869, p. 48, pi. 9, f. 7-8. 



On comparing my types of A. culb-iformis, with tliose of Mr. 

 Conrad's S.jjerplana, it proves that they are genericalh' identical, 

 the hinges agreeing perfectl^y. There is only one difference, and 

 that of minor importance ; mj- shell, which is very long, is slightly 

 twisted, while Mr. Conrad's, w^hich is much shorter, is all on one 

 plane. 



Opis, Dep. ? 

 0. Conradi, Gabb, 



Isocardia, id., G., Journ. Acad., 2 ser., vol. 4, p. 393, pi. 68, f. 21. 



LiTHOPHAGA, Bolt. 



Lithodoviiis, CuA'., LilJiophagus, Muhlf. 



L. Ripleyana, Gabb, Proc. Acad., 1861, p. 326. 

 L. affinis, G., loc. cit., p. 327. 

 Arcopenm Carolinensis, Con., Kerr's N. C. Rep., Pal., p. 5, pi. 1, f. 6. 



I named L. affinis, a form shorter, more convex, and a little 

 curved, but I do not now believe that even a greater difference in 

 form in a boring shell can be made the basis of a specific distinc- 

 tion, unless repeated in a very large suite of specimens. Mr. Con- 




312 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



rad's name must be placed as a synonym ; his figure agrees ex- 

 actlj^ with specimens of mj^ species, which is not rare. I have 

 before me a large series, some showing the valves perfectly' pre- 

 served, and others bedded partially and entirely in fossil wood. 



Inoceramus, Sby. 



I. Tippanus, Con. (sp.)- 



Pholadomya Tippana, Con., J. A., 2 s., v. 3, p. 324, pi. 34, f. 9. 

 I. costellatus, Con., he. cit., p. 329, pi. 34, f. 12. 



A rare shell; verj^ thin and marked by both radiating and con- 

 centric sculpture. It is very inequivalve, as will be seen by the 

 figure 12 above quoted. 



Trigonia, Brug. 

 T. Leana, Gabb. 



Trigonia Gihhoniana, G., Pal. Cal., vol. 1, p. l-'O, pi. 17, f. 178; pi. 

 31, f. 2G2, not T. Gibboniana, Lea, Trans. Amer. P. Soc, 3 s., v. 7, 

 p. 255, pi. 9, f. 7, 9. 



From the rather poor figure and imperfect description of Mr. 

 Lea, quoted above, I made a doubtful identification of the Cali- 

 forniau shell with the South American. Recently, while studj'ing 

 some fossils from Peru, Mr. Lea kindly placed his tj^pes at my 

 disposal, and, among other errors I have been enabled to correct, 

 is this one. Our two species are of the same tj-pe, but the}- dilfer 

 very materially in the ornamentation. I have therefore renamed 

 the Californian species. 



T. thoracica, Morton, Synopsis, p. 65, pi. 15, f. 13. 



From the Ripley of Pataula Creek, Georgia ; Dr. Little. 

 T. angulicosta, n. s. 



Shell small, elongate, curved; anterior end regularly convex; 

 base broadl}^ rounded in the middle, slightl}" concave posteriorly; 

 posterior cardinal line concave; posterior end prolonged, truncate. 

 Surface divided by a ridge, separating the corselet from the 

 broader part; corselet crossed by transverse ribs, corresponding 

 in number to those below; towards the end these arc directed ob- 

 liquely backwards. Outer surface divided into three parts; nearest 

 the beaks it is marked on the anterior half of the adult shell by about 

 ten or a dozen prominent ribs, most of which, after traversing 

 half the distance from the corselet to the base, suddenly bend 

 forward at a slightly acute angle, and terminate at the anterior 




187fi.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



margin of the shell; posterior to these are about ten more ribs, 

 which traverse the entire width, from the corselet to the base. 

 On the anterior half of the basal margin are some short ribs, 

 parallel with those last described, and which arise abutting against 

 the lowest of the antero-posterior ribs, and i*each the margin, be- 

 coming oblique forward until the most anterior becomes nearly 

 parallel with the rib against which it originates. 



Length 1.Y5 inch; width 1.3 inch. 



From Pataula Creek, Georgia; Dr. Little. 



This very peculiar shell has an internal cast not unlike T. fho- 

 racica, with which it is found associated ; but its surface sculpture 

 is unlike any other species with which I am acquainted. I have two 

 fragmentary specimens before me, showing part of the surface but 

 none of the antero-basal ribs described above. The details of the 

 description are drawn from the impression of an entire surface in 

 a hard sandstone. 



Yenilia, Mort. 

 F. Conradi, Morton, Syn. p. 67, pi. 8, f. 1-2. 



A cast of this species occurs in the same block with one of the 

 casts of the pi-eceding. 



Idonearca, Con. 



A genus represented in the Cretaceous of New Jersey alone by 

 about a dozen species. Some of these are as j-et undescribed for 

 want of sufficient material, and most of them are known only 

 from internal moulds. 



I. vulgaris, Morton (sp.). 



Cucullaa, id., Morton, Syn. Cret., p. 64, pi. 3, f. 8, and pi. 13, f. 5. 



The commonest species. Casts (pi. 13, f. 5) are abundant in the 

 marls, and are known as ""squirrel heads" by the country boys. 

 The cast is recognizable by its oblique form and prominent remote 

 beaks. Dr. Morton described the shell from specimens from 

 Arnej'town, N. J. fpl. 3, f. 8). It is variable in its obliquity and 

 convexit}', the umbonal ridge being sometimes arched backwards 

 and sometime straight, as seen from the side ; the posterior face 

 is nearly flat. The area is large. 

 21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEJNIY OP [187fi. 



I. neglecta, Gahb. 



CuGuUcea, id., Gabb., Proc. Acad., 1861, p. 326. 



This species is not rave in tlie marls of New Jersey, and I have 

 seen easts from the white limestone of Prairie Bluff, Ala., appa- 

 rently^ belonging to it. Recently I have obtained from Prof. 

 Cook, State Geologist of Xew Jersej^, specimens from the Xew 

 Jersey white limestone (Timber Creek limestone) in which the 

 shells are in a beautiful state of preservation. The valves are 

 subcompressed ; beak small, placed a little in advance of the 

 middle ; area narrow, about half as long as the shell, and marked 

 by very few impressed lines; hinge thin, median teeth few and 

 small, lateral teeth long, narrow, and few. Base and anterior end 

 regularl}' and broadly curved; posterior side convex and sloping, 

 not angulated at the base. No umbonal ridge; surface regularly 

 convex, sloping in a little, more abruptly on the posterior side 

 than elsewhere. Surface smooth, marked only b}^ a few obscure 

 lines of growth. 



Length 1.75 inch; width 1.4 inch; height of single valve 0.4. 

 inch. 

 I. Carolinensis. 



Shell subquadrate, convex, hinge line just one-half the length 

 of the shell; beaks small, incurved, umbones prominent and 

 rounded ; posterior slope nearly vertical ; anterior end regularly 

 rounded, retreating obliquely below ; base broadly convex, most 

 prominent in the middle. Surface in the adult marked only by 

 irregular lines of growth ; in the young crossed b3'^ very numerous 

 and very fine radiating lines; hinge small. In the adult the mid- 

 dle (transverse) teeth show a tendency' to irregularity, and even 

 partial obliteration. Lateral teeth perfectly parallel with the 

 hinge line ; ai'ea small. Internal plate thin and elevated. 



Length 2.0 inches ; width 1.5 inch ; depth of single valves .t5 inch. 



This species grows about the size of /. vulgaris, but is less ob- 

 lique, with rounder outlines and a more central beak. The ai-ea 

 is smaller, and the whole shell is more quadrate. The markings 

 of the young shell are as minute as those of Trigonarca SaJJ'ordi, 

 G., but of a different character, and the present species is propor- 

 tionally shorter, more oblique, and more convex than that. /. 

 capax, Conrad, is a lieav}^ shell, remarkably thick, and will, I think, 

 prove to be identical with vulga7-is. I referred it to antrosa by 




1876.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



mistake in the S^'nopsis of Ci'et. Mollusca for that species. From 

 /. neglecta this species can be at once distinguished by the more 

 convex valves and by the umbonal angle. 



From the Ripley Group, Snow Hill, N. Carolina. 



I. Alabamensis, n. s. 



Shell convex, oblique; area less than half the length of the 

 shell ; ver}- narrow ; beaks small, approximating; umbones small; 

 anterior end broadly rounded, not retreating below ; base convex 

 in front, straight behind ; posterior side oblique, uniting with the 

 base by a marked angle; umbonal angle rounded, but narrow and 

 abrupt ; posterior face truncated ; hinge narrow. 



Length 1.5 inch ; width 1.25 inch ; depth of single valve 0.6 inch. 



The nearest all}"^ of this species is the preceding. It can be 

 distinguished by the smaller beaks, much narrower area, the 

 broader anterior end, the base straight behind, instead of being 

 regularly convex, and by the strong umbonal angle and more 

 truncated posterior end. 



I have not attempted to describe the surface, since although the 

 shell is well represented in all its details, except that, in the spe- 

 cimen before me, the shell substance has been replaced by a bor- 

 ing sponge (? CUona) ; the shell itself has disappeared and the 

 sponge has taken exactl}- its form except a thin outer film. Even 

 two or three strong concentric lines of growth have left their im- 

 pression on the sponge. This unique specimen, which might well 

 serve as the type of two species of widely different organisms, is 

 from the white limestone of Prairie Bluffs, Ala, 



? I. antrosa, Mort. (sp.) 



CiicuUcea, id., Morton, Synopsis, p. 68, pi. 18, fig. 6. 



A very convex form, almost as short as an Axi7ioea with central 

 beaks and a strong internal plate. The species is only known 

 from casts, although it was described over forty years ago. Its 

 hinge line is so curved that it maj^ prove eventually to be a 

 Trigoncn-ca, and may even belong to Conrad's subgenus Brevi- 

 arca. I have placed it under the above genus in accordance with 

 the opinion of Mr. Conrad, with whom I have consulted on the 

 subject. 

 I. sp. ? 



Associated with the casts of antrosa are some of a more elon- 

 gated and angulated form, evidently an undescribed species. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



Besides the clifFerence of outline, it has a remarkabl}^ thick internal 

 plate running far up into the cavity under the umbones. A 

 mashed shell from Haddonfield, found by Mr. Conrad, and evi- 

 dently of this species, shows the surface to be plain, marked only 

 by lines of growth. 



The Academy's collection contains also two other species of 

 this genus from New Jersey, represented by internal casts, but 

 which I refrain from describing, trusting that we may obtain 

 more material in the future. 

 I. Littlei, n. s. 



Shell very large, oblique, gibbous, beaks large, prominent, 

 remote, incurved ; area broad ; anterior end prominent, narrowly 

 rounded, retreating below ; posterior end obliquely sloping ; base 

 nearly straight, most prominent below the beaks ; internal plate 

 very large, prominent and continued up into the cavity under the 

 beaks. Surface marked by coarse lines of growth. 



Length (of casts) 5 inches ; width 4.8 inches, greatest transverse 

 diameter 4 inches. 



This enormous species, not surpassed in size even bj^ Area 

 grandis, is described from a nodular mass showing at the same 

 time the impression of the surface and the mould of the interior. 

 I take pleasure in dedicating this, the largest species of the 

 family, to the State Geologist of Georgia, despite the fact that the 

 name might be puuningly suggestive of a specific character, espe- 

 cially inappropriate. It is from Pataula Creek, Georgia. 



Nemodon, Con. 

 N. angulatum, Gabb. 



Led<(, id., Gabb, Proc. Acad. 1860, p. 94, pi. 2, fig. 12. 



A re-examination of this species shows it to belong to Mr. 



Conrad's genus. 



Trigonarca, Con. 

 T. cuneata, n. s. 



Shell small, obligue ; beaks slightl}^ in advance of the centre, 

 small, incurved, and approximated ; area verj- small and marked 

 by numerous transverse lines ; anterior end produced, narrowly 

 rounded, most prominent below ; posterior side ver^- sloping, the 

 posterior end of the area being barcl}^ visible beyond the umbonal 

 ridge; below the posterior end is narrow and caudate, almost like 

 some Crassatellas ; base slightly convex in advance, nearly 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 317 



straight, or even a little concave and sloping upwards behind; 

 umbonal ridge strongly marked ; posterior face truncated ; sur- 

 face marked b^' obsolete radiating lines, and by stronger lines of 

 growth. Hinge broad and with numerous radiately placed teeth. 



Length 1.1 inch ; width 1.0 inch ; depth of valve 0.3 inch. 



Yery closeh' allied in generic character to T. Maconensis, Con., 

 the type of the genus, but differs in its small size, the measure- 

 ments being given from the largest of a large series. In siiape it 

 differs in being proportionally' much larger, less produced in front 

 and more produced behind, and in having a less I'ounded base. 



Of about the same size as Breviarca Carolinensis^ Con., it is a 

 more robust shell, with a stronger umbonal ridge ; is caudate 

 behind instead of lieing convex ; is less prominent in front, and is 

 altogether a much more triangular shell. 



Abundant at Pataula Creek, Clay Co., Georgia. 



AXINCEA, Poli. 

 A. hamula, Morton, sp. 



Pectunciihis hamulus^ Morton, Syn. Cret., p. 64, pi. 15, f. 7. 

 ? A. bellasculpta, Con., J. Acad., 3 s., v. 4, p. 395. 



The posterior extremity is not angulated as described by Dr. 

 Morton. His description and figure would be unintelligible with- 

 out his t3'pes. His specimens are slightl}' truncated posteriorly 

 though very faintly, and others are equally round on both margins. 

 There seems to be a considerable difference in the amount of con- 

 vexitj'^ in the species, and, although I have not seen so many 

 specimens as I would like, I think fuller series will prove that 

 there is no difference betw'een this and A. subausti-alis, d'Orb. (P. 

 australis, Mort., not Quoy). The onl}- character depended on is 

 the convexity, and that certainly varies very much in Georgia 

 specimens sent me by Doctor Little. In fact, in some cases I am 

 in doubt whether to call them by one or the other name, with Dr. 

 Morton's types beside them. With about tlie same longitudinal 

 and transverse diameters, the deepness of the yalve of Morton's 

 original hamula is .5 inch, while that of Ausiralis is .25 inch. 

 All of the casts (there are no shells) from New Jersey, are of this 

 latter form, though Dr. Morton speaks of them as another species. 

 The character on which Mr. Conrad separated A. bellasculpla is 

 visilile on some of the Georgia specimens, to a less degree than on 

 his tj'pes from Mississippi, and on comparing the whole series, I 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



can find no valid ground for a specific distinction between tliem 

 and A. hainida. 



Nl'cula, Lara. 

 N. percrassa, Con. 



Journ. Acad., 2 s., v. 3, p. 327, pi. 35, f. 4. 



A fine species, common at Pataula Creek, Ga. 



N. Slackiana, Gabb. 



Leda, id., G., .Tourn. Acad., 2 s., v. 4, p. 397, pi. 68, f. 37. 



This "was described from casts in the marls of New Jersey ; the 

 surface characters have never been obtained, hut from its size and 

 shape I have little doubt it will prove identical witli j^t^rci-a^isa. 



Nuculana, Link. 

 Leda, Schum. 



It is doubtful if the names of Link should be regarded. To all 

 intents and purposes liis book was never published, although 

 printed, until the names were resurrected b}- Morch. I, however', 

 under protest, follow H. & A. Adams, Stoliczka, Conrad, and 

 Meek in the use of this name, regretting the habit so common of 

 " reducing scientific nomenclature to a branch of archteological 

 research." 



N. protexta, Gabb (sp.), Meek, Check List, No. 204. 



Leda, id., Gabb, Journ. Acad., 2 s., v. 4, p. 303, pi. 48, f. 23. 



A single specimeu from Pataula Creek, Georgia. 



Camptonectes, Agas. 



C. Burlingtonensis, Gabb. 



Pecten, id., Gabb., Journ. Acad., 2 s v. 4, p. 304, pi. 48, f. 25. 



One of our finest Pectens. It was described from a xcry per- 

 fect mould in the brown sandy marl of New Jersey. Since then 

 Mr. Conrad has found the shell in the Ripley marl of Haddon- 

 field. New .lersej^ The right ear of the lower valve is long and 

 narrow, and has a very deep, narrow sinus. The surface is 

 marked b}^ regularly placed thin subsquamose plates surmount- 

 ing each a f-inall concentric ridge. Between these plates are 

 visible very minute radiating impressed lines. Tliis radiating 

 sculpture is only visible on well-preserved specimens, and, while 

 it takes the directions common in Agassiz's genus, it differs from 

 all the previously described species in its almost invisible 

 character. 




1ST6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



SiNCYCLONEMA, Meek. 



S. simplicius, Con., Meek, Check List Cretaceous, No. 196. 



Pecten, id., Con., J. Acad., 2 s. v. 4, p. 283, pi. 46, f. 44. 



This little shell grows to a diameter of 0.6 inch, and is an 

 abundant fossil. In the older specimens, man}' are marlved by 

 strong concentric squamose ridges, between which are microscopic 

 radiating lines, 



Neithea, Drouet. 

 N. complexicosta, n. s. 



Shell moderate in size ; lower valve deeplj' convex, upper valve 

 unknown. Surface marked bj* six large ribs, regularly distributed 

 at equal distances, between each pair of which are two smaller 

 ones. Each rib, large and small, is divided on its upper surface 

 into three thread like ridges ; the interspaces between the ribs are 

 regularly concave, and without longitudinal marking; entire sur- 

 face crossed by minute, regularl^'^ placed subsquamose lines. 



Length one inch. Locality, Uniontown, Ala. 



A very pretty species, of the typical shape of N. quinquecostata, 

 etc., but differing from all the described species in the character 

 of its ribs. It is probably nearest to D'Orbigny 's N. striato-costata, 

 but the large and small ribs are more nearly equal in size, and 

 they differ in the manner in which the ribs are ornamented. In 

 our species, the broad concave interspace rounds up to nearlj'^ the 

 full height of the rib, and onl}'^ on the top does it show the two 

 grooves which divide it into three little linear ribs. N. alpina^ 

 D'Orb., has the same number of large and small ribs, but they are 

 rounded and plain on top. 



Anomta, Linn. 



A. argentaria, Morton, Syn. p. 61, pL 5, f. 10. 



A. tellinoides, Mort., loc. cit., p. 61, pi. 5, f. 11. 



A. selkeformis, Con., J. A., 2 s. v. 3, p. 330, pi. 34, f. 6. 



I have compared large suites, including Dr. Morton's original 

 specimens, and conclude that all three of the above names must 

 go together. The differences depended on for the separation were 

 only those of outline, and there is no possible ground for the 

 second specific name given by Dr. Morton. Mr. Conrad's name 

 was given to a single specimen distorted by growing on an irregu- 

 lar surface. The species is common at Pataula Creek, Georgia, 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816 



and grows to more than an inch in diameter. The most regular 

 form, before the shell becomes distorted, is nearl}^ circular, with 

 a well-marked little beak, adjoining to, and sometimes overhang- 

 ing the cardinal margin. The surface is faintly squamose and 

 ornamented by microscopic radiating lines. 



Accompanying these is another form, represented by no less 

 than fifteen specimens agreeing well with one another. Unlike the 

 typical A. argenfaria, they are ornamented by a uniform pattern, 

 clearly not the impression of a surface, to which they were at- 

 tached. In form and size they do not differ from A. argentaria, 

 but the ornament is a series of radiating ribs, one set large, flat- 

 tened on top, and well defined ; between these are interpolated 

 from one to three smaller ribs. In most cases this alternation is 

 well defined ; though in two or three the large ribs are nearer in 

 size to the small ones. On the tj^pical argentaria this radiation 

 is never observed, even in a rudimentary manner, and on some of 

 my specimens it begins at the very apex ; but on several the first 

 half iucli in diameter, or less, of the shell does not differ from 

 argentaria^ while after that the ribs begin, first on thread-like 

 lines, finally developing to full size. In consequence of this I feel 

 reluctant to separate the form as a distinct species, believing that 

 more material will merge the two. I therefore content myself 

 with proposing the name of A. argentaria, var. ornata. 



Paranomia, Con. 



P. Saffordi, Con., Journ. Acad., 2 s. v. 4, p. 290, pi. 46, f. 21. 

 Several specimens from Pataula Creek, Georgia. 



OsTREA, Linn. 

 0. sxibspatulata, Fbs., Quart. Journ. G. Soc, v. 1, p. 61. 



Five miles north of Lumpkin, Stewart Count}', and near Fort 

 Gaines, Georgia ; Dr. Little. The species is characterized, even 

 when not two inches long, by a tendency to great thickening of 

 the upper half, the lower half being a thin tongue-like process. 



0. larva, Lam., A. S. V., v. 6, p. 216. 



0. falcata, Morton, Syn., p. 50, pi. 3, f. 5. 



Not common at Georgetown, Quitman Co., Georgia. 



0. plumosa, Morton, Syn., p. 51, pi. 3, f. 9. 



With the preceding. 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



0. pusilla, Nills., Petr. Suec, p. 32, pi. 11, f. 7, a-c. 



0. (ecticosta, Gabb, Journ. Acad., 2 s. v. 4, p. 403, pi. 68, f. 47, 48. 



From Georgetown, Pataula Creek, and five miles north of Lump- 

 kin, Stewart County, Georgia. Some of the specimens are much 

 larger and broader than those from Tennessee and New Jersey, 

 from which I described the species. I am convinced that not only 

 is this shell identical with the Swiss species, but, by looking over 

 Nillson's work, there are nearly a dozen others that will probably 

 l^rove synonymous. Among these might be mentioned Grijphsea 

 lateralis and Ostrea larva, of which the broad form, called by 

 Nillson 0. lunata, also occurs in New Jersey. 



0. Bryanii, n. b. 



Shell moderate in size, subtrigonal, oblique, irregular in out- 

 line, rather thick. Lower valve deep, upper valve flat, or more 

 or less concave towards the basal margin. Sliell usually free, 

 sometimes showing signs of attachment near the beak ; surface 

 irregularly squamose, more so as it grows older ; a few broad but 

 not very prominent radiating lines or ribs are visible usually, 

 though not always, on the most convex part of the lower valve. 

 I have never observed any on the upper valve. Hinge long, tri- 

 angular, deepl}' grooved in the middle, and strongly deflected to 

 the left side. Inner margin ci-enulated, though sometimes ob- 

 scurely, near the hinge. Muscular scar large. 



Usual size about 1 inch to 1.5 in length ; I have one specimen 

 three inches long. 



Found abundantly near Yincenttown, New Jersey, in the marl 

 at the top of the Cretaceous, by Col. Bryan. In a few minutes, 

 in company with that gentleman, I collected more than fifty speci- 

 mens on the marl heaps of the West Jersey Marl Co. 



0. Littlei, n. s. 



Shell small, irregularly elongate-falcate to subtriangular ; more 

 regular in the young state ; thin. Young shell marked, at least 

 on tlie lower valve, by faint radiations, which become obsolete in 

 the adult; these are crossed by unusuall}^ faint lines of growth, 

 not squamose. Hinge elongate, triangular, deflected to the left. 

 Associated with the lower valves are some upper ones of corre- 

 sponding form and size, witii the same surface markings except 

 that the}' are not radiated even towards the beaks. The margins 

 are crenulated, corresponding to the ends of the radii in the lower 

 valve. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Length of largest specimen 2.5 inch ; width 1.0 inch ; depth of 

 lower valves 0.5 inch. 



From Pataula Creek and Georgetown, Georgia. I have also 

 found some valves of this species among the undetermined o^-sters 

 sent me in 1860 by Prof. Safford from the Eiple}^ Marls of Ten- 

 nessee. 



Nearl}'^ as smooth as 0. pluinosa, Morton, this shell differs in 

 its more triangular form, elongate, and somewhat bent ; the lower 

 valve is subangnlar and deep, and the .young shell has radiations 

 which point to a resemblance to some of the more triangular forms 

 of 0. larva. From that species it differs in being less falcate than 

 the shortest and broadest specimens, and in having a mere trace 

 of the radiations and none of the marginal plications. 



0. exogyrella, n. s. 



Shell subequivalve, nearl}' equilateral, elongate, more or less 

 quadrate ; sides subparallel, cardinal margins more or less slop- 

 ing; beaks usually nearh' median, sometimes a little deflected; 

 base rounded ; surface marked by distant subsquamose lines of 

 growth not radiated at any stage; hinge broad, shallow, normally 

 triangulai", var^-ing to nearh^ subquadrate. 



Length 1 to 2 inches; usual proportion a third longer than wide. 



From Pataula Creek and Georgetown, Georgia ; Dr. Little. 



I have purposely omitted a very important point in the above 

 diagnosis, to mention it more in detail here. The shell shows an 

 additional cliaracter, which I have failed to discover in any other 

 true oyster, and which shows the transitional character from Os- 

 trea to Exogyra. Fortunately, I have a good series of specimens, 

 and every lower valve possesses a "nuclear wiiorl," if 1 maj' be 

 permitted to use such a phrase in connection with a bivalve. In 

 other words, up to a diameter of nearly a quarter of an inch, every 

 specimen has been a well-characterized Exogyra. After this the 

 direction of growth changed to a right line, and the spiral is par- 

 tiall}- imbedded in the succeeding laj'ers. or projects as a slightly 

 deflected tip or beak on an unusually s^-rametrical oyster. This 

 spiral is on tlie normal side of Exogyra, and under tlie deflected 

 beak there is a slight emargination, a corresponding convexity 

 existing on the opposite side. 



This character is of the greater interest, since it is a transition 

 to the generic characters of the species variously known as Odrea, 

 Gryphoea and Exogyra laleralis, Nillson, Petr., Suec, pi. 7, f. 9- 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



10. {G. vomer, Morton, Syn. Cret. p. 54, pi. 9, f. 5.) This shell 

 is a well-marked Exogijra in its 3-oung state, bnt in some cases in 

 the adult the spiral beak is entirely- covered up. Mr. Conrad 

 proposed for this groiii), although I think on insufficient grounds, 

 the subgeneric name of Gryphostrea in the genus Ostrea. This 

 last species survived to the Eocene, where it is known in the Paris 

 Basin as 0. everm, and in Maryland as 0. sub-eversa. 



GRYPHiEA. 



G. vesicularis, Lam. (sp.), Bronn, Leth. Geog. pi. 32, f. 1. 



Oatrea, id.. Lam., Am. Mus., v. 8, p. 160, pi. 22, f. 3. 



Common at Georgetown, Georgia ; Dr. Little. 



G. TMrsae, Gabb, Proc. Acad., 1861, p. 329. 



This is a rare species, and seems to be confined to the neighbor- 

 hood of Alabama and Georgia. I described it from the former 

 State, and now have it from near Fort Gaines, Georgia, whence it 

 was sent by Dr. Little. It is intermediate between the narrowest 

 forms of G. vesiculaj^is and G. pitcherii. From the former it can 

 be distinguished by the sides being narrowed and sloping nearly 

 straight from the umbone, which is narrower and more prominent 

 than is Lamarck's species. From G. p>itcherii^ which it most re- 

 sembles, it can be distinguished by being less distinctly lobed 

 laterall}'; b_y the hinge area of the lower valve being broader and 

 flatter, and by the beak being veiy minute instead of being large 

 and incurved. 



ExoGYRA, Say. 



E. costata, Say, Journ. Phila. Acad., 1 ser., voL 2, p. 43. 



To the already long synonymy of this species must be added 

 E. iiHerrupta, Con., Journ. Acad., 2 s. v. 3, p. 330, pi. 34, f. 15. 



I have this latter, which is only an attached lower valve of E. 

 costata, of every size and of every degree of attachment from an 

 almost total obliteration of the ribs, to a perfectly free and typi- 

 cal costata. They are marked Georgetown, and five miles north 

 of Lumpkin, Stewart County, Georgia. 



Discoidea occidentalis, Gabb. 



This echiiioderm was described by me as coming from the Cre- 

 taceous of Oregon. It was given me by a friend, who at the same 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



time told me that was the locality. Since then an extensive ac- 

 quaintance with the Cretaceous rocks of the west coast of North 

 America, including not a little with the geology of Oregon, renders 

 me doubtful of the accuracy of the information. The specimen 

 is preserved in a light-colored limestone, entirely unlike anything 

 I know of in our Pacific States, but which looks suspiciously like 

 some Cretaceous rocks I have seen from Peru. It may conse- 

 quently prove to be a South American fossil, though this is only 

 a conjecture. 



Paliurus. New Genus. 



A free serpuloid tube, usually with a triangular cross section 

 externally; circular internally; tube straight or slightly twisted 

 or bent. 

 P. triangularis, n. s., pi. 17, f. 11, 12, 13. 



I propose this name for a common little annelid in the white 

 limestone, found especially abundant at Viucenttown, New Jersey. 

 It is free, and, as above described, has an external triangular cross 

 section ; the two ends are open, and the apertures are circular. 

 The carinas are subangular or rounded, the sides more or less 

 deeply grooved, and the entire shell, usually about three-fourths 

 of an inch long, is slightly twisted or irregularly curved, though 

 varying little from a straight line. The diameter is about .06 or 

 .01 inch. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 325 



December 5. 



Mr. Yaux, Yice-President, in the chair. 



Fort_y-two members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" Our Sidereal System and the Direction and Distance of its 



Centre." B3' Jacob Ennis. 



'' On some Extinct Reptiles and Batrachia from the Fort Union 



and Fox Hills Beds of Montana." By Edw. D. Cope. 



On Ozocerite. — Prof Leidy remarked that the fine collection of 

 specimens of Ozocerite, and minerals with which it is found asso- 

 ciated, presented this evening by Mr. Paul Dobel, through Dr. F. 

 Migcrka, the Austrian Commissioner, were well worthy' the atten- 

 tion of the members. The Ozocerite, Erdwachs or mineral wax of 

 the Germans, is found in association with clay, sand, and salt, at 

 Boryslaw, in the Carpathians, Galicia. The collection consists of a 

 fine series of the Ozocerite of different varieties : the ordinary brown 

 resin-like kind ; a lemon-yellow flaky form ; another lemon-yellow 

 but fibrous kind; a black carbonaceous form, etc., with specimens 

 associated with rock salt, and others with clay and sandstone. 

 Besides these there are a number of specimens obtained from the 

 crude material ; a mass of cliocolate-brown hue ; another undistin- 

 guishable in appearance from ordinar}' 3'ellow beeswax, and a third 

 looking like white wax or like parafHne. 



On Hyraceum. — Prof. Leidy remarked that the large, black 

 bituminous-looking mass presented this evening, through Mr. 

 H. C. Coates, Commissioner of the Colony- of Cape of Good Hope, 

 is the substance called Hj-raceum, and is said to be the inspis- 

 sated urine of the Hyrax capensis. The animal is reputed to 

 inhabit gregariously, rocky places at the Cape of Good Hope. 

 The accumulated urine in hollows of the rocks, gradually evapo- 

 rating, is supposed to give rise to the product in question. It is 

 reported as having been employed in medicine with the same effect 

 as castoreum. 



Prof. Cope remarked that a material resembling the concretion 

 made by the urine of Hyrax was found in the fissures of the rocks 

 in New Mexico. It was probably the fecal and renal deposit of 

 the wild rat, Neotoma. 



On Itacolumite. — Prof W. P. Blake remarked that the Mineral 

 Department of the National Museum at the Centennial Exhibition 

 liad recently received some specimens of flexible sandstone, re- 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



ported to be from Mariposa County, California, which are inter- 

 esting and worth}- of note by reason of the new locality, and as 

 showing the peculiarities of this kind of sandstone in a marked 

 degree. The specimens are, also, unusnall}^ fine, some being- over 

 thirty inches in length, and oul}' two square inches in section. 

 The color and the structure appear to be the same as in flexible 

 sandstone from other localities. Thin and small scales of silver 

 mica are abundant. It bends with little resistance up to a certain 

 point, and without elasticity, but is rigid beyond that point. 

 When held up b}^ one end and shaken, the motion is transmitted 

 in wave-like vibrations as in a cord, but the limit of movement is 

 sensibl}- felt like a blow or shock. A specimen thirt3'-two inches 

 in length may be bent seven and a half inches to one side or the 

 other of a straight line. The fi-eedom of movement is greatest at 

 right angles to the plane of lamination. The specimens are also 

 capable of being sensibly extended when pulled. In a specimen 

 tbirt^'-tvvo inches long the extension amounted to about half an 

 inch. Xo examinations under the microscope have been made, as 

 the}- should have been, to show the structure. The freedom of 

 movement up to a certain point, and the rigidity beyond that 

 point indicate that there is a tolerably- uniform distance between 

 the grains of sand and a certain amount of movement possible 

 among them, and that by bending, the grains are brought into 

 contact with each other. The theory' of the late Prof. C. M. Weth- 

 erill that the grains of sand ai'e shaped like dumb-bells was referred 

 to with a doubt of its correctness. The part which the scales of 

 mica play can only be shown by the examination under a micro- 

 scope of carefull}- ground sections of the stone, which might per- 

 haps be prepared for cutting bj^ solutions of soluble glass. 



Prof. Leidy' stated that he had examined Itacolumite micro- 

 scopically without being able to detect anything like the dumb- 

 bell structure described by Dr. Wetlierill. He supposed that the 

 intermingling of grains, differing in translucency and color, gave 

 rise to the impression of a dumli-bell arrangement. Tiius a pair 

 of adherent translucent grains surrounded with smaller colored 

 ones would give rise to such an impression. 



December 12. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-four members present. 




ISTG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 327 



December 19. 

 Mr. Taux, Yice-President, iu the chair. 

 Thirty-five members present. 



Mineralogical Notes. — Mr. Joseph Willcox said that the two 

 fine crystals of scapolite, which were presented this evening by 

 Mr. Yaux, M'ere found at a new locality for this mineral, in St. 

 Lawrence County, N. Y., and that a specimen from the same 

 locality had recently been received in this city which weighs about 

 25 pounds, and is probably the largest scapolite crystal ever found. 



He also referred to a specimen of quartz on tlie table from the 

 well-known localitj^ of green quartz at Blue Hill, in Delaware 

 Count}', Pa. This specimen had been exposed to the weather for 

 a few weeks, and had lost nearl}^ all its green color. This green 

 quartz is found in several veins of chlorite, much decomposed, 

 and each of different intensity in color. The quartz occurring in 

 each vein corresponds in color to the matrix. 



Impurities in Drinking Water Mr. Willcox also stated that, 



during the last eight 3'ears, whenever the Schuylkill River has 

 been covered with ice, he observed that the water supplied by the 

 city possessed a disagreeable odor and taste, like chlorine. Large 

 quantities of chloride of lime are daily used at Manayunk and at 

 the Wissahickon for bleaching purposes, and the chlorine gas is 

 liberated from it by the application of alum and sulphuric acid. 

 A large portion of the chlorine gas subsequently escapes from the 

 water before it reaches Fairmount; but when the river is covered 

 with ice, this process of purification is retarded, and the offensive 

 element is practicall}'^ conveyed, in a covered trough, from the 

 mills to the pumps that supply our city with water. He was not 

 competent to state if chlorine in this condition is prejudicial to 

 health. Being a powerful disinfectant it may be a providential 

 interposition for the prevention of disease that might be caused 

 b}^ the foul material that is carried in such profusion through the 

 sewers into the Schuylkill River, and which, on account of the ice, 

 would otherwise be transported into our water-pipes in its original 

 im[)urit3'. 



On Excrescences and Excentric Wood Groxvths in the Trunks of 

 Trees. — Mr. Thomas Meehan said that on many trees were pecu- 

 liar excrescences, which, up to a few years ago, had been I'eferred 

 primarily to insect origin. Cutting these through lengthwise 

 there was no appearance of this agencj'. There were layers of 

 wood of annual growth, just as in the normal parts of the tree. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Examining some oak knots of tliis character, and finding pulve- 

 rulent fungoid matter abundant on the surface, he said he had 

 introduced some of these to the Academy a few 3'ears ago, and 

 suggested tliis as a substitute for the insect theory, but subse- 

 quently Professor Farlow had kindly examined them critically 

 and found no trace whatever of fungoid matter in tlieir structure. 

 This left us wholly in the dark as to the exact origin of these 

 stuctures. 



It was worth noting that these excrescences were often of a 

 uniform character in each species of tree. In many cases, no 

 matter how large or how old they were, they would separate from 

 the parent stem easil}^ by a short sudden blow. He had made 

 collections of these and in most cases found great uniformity. In 

 Quercus obtusiloba they were depressed globose, in Fagus sylva- 

 tica (American beech) they were convex and oval, with the 

 narrow ends crosswise with the trunk. In the Acer ruhrum (red 

 maple) they were oval but drawn out lengthwise. In the common 

 weeping willow they varied very much in size, sometimes being 

 as large as a bushel measure, but always knocking out easily as 

 in all named before. In the common cherry {Geraaus avium) and 

 the paper mulberr}^ {BrouHsonnetia papyrifera) tlie excrescences 

 were also ver^^ irregular in form, and seemed to have a stronger 

 attachment to the parent stem than the others. The apple had 

 very small and numerous ones in some species ; and it was from 

 an examination of these, he said, that he had derived the key to 

 the whole subject. On the bark of some kinds of apple trees 

 numerous small i)ea-like projections would exist on the bark 

 within a space of a few inches. On cutting open, these were 

 found to be not vesicular, but to be filled with hard and perfect 

 wood. A careful examination showed that these woody masses 

 took their rise seemingly from the liber, to which, in the newly 

 formed cases, they would be found still attached by a small 

 thread-like vessel. 



In order to understand their formation, it was necessary to 

 understand how wood was made. In many ti'ees the annual la3'er 

 was so regular, and seemed to be placed so nicelj', that one not a 

 botanist might be pardoned for believing that the sap was changed 

 to woody matter in the leaves, and the new formed matter sent 

 down, sliding over the old layer like the sections of a telescope; 

 but tliough the food was prepared by the leaves in a great meas- 

 ure, the actual growth was made by the germination of some of 

 the cells along the whole outside wall of last year's wood beneath 

 the inner bark. In his own observations of this process he had 

 taken the common clierrj- for his experiments. The germination 

 of the cells takes place here about the middle of June. He takes 

 a healthy cherry tree and strips it entirely of its bark to any 

 length desired. At that season a viscid liquid will be found 

 covering the woody surface in abundance. The stripped part is 




187G.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



covered with a cloth to prevent evaporation, and in a few days 

 numerous dots, like needle points, will be seen about the sixteenth 

 of an inch apart all over tlie surface. Tiiese are the 3'oung cells 

 which have germinated from tliose of last 3ear. Tiiey continue 

 germinating, one from the other, until they meet, when tliey unite 

 and form a complete surface. In the fall a layer of wood will be 

 found just as thiclc as in the [)art of the tree not disbarked, and 

 a single layer of liber, with its outer coat of cellular matter — 

 perfect bark — will have been formed over the whole. The entire 

 formation of wood and bark can thus be seen by the ordinary 

 observer, without the necessity of any nice microscopical work. 

 Other people have tried the experiment with other trees. He has 

 seen large apple trees that have had their bark peeled wholly off 

 from their trunks, at the season named, make an entire new laj^er 

 of bark and wood, not onh' with no injury to the tree, but to its 

 manifest enjoyment ; but his own experiments were confined ex- 

 clusively to the cherr}'.* 



By this experiment we learn that there is no difference pri- 

 raaril}'^ in any part of the annual covering. The same cell may 

 become permanent tissue or generating tissue — and from the 

 generative tissue may come before the season of growth closes 

 every form of structure known to anatomists, from pure wood to 

 the outermost cuticle of the bark. How these cells become differ- 

 entiated may be passed over here. We know that cell-growth is 

 not alwaj^s uniform in its operations. The law that changes the 

 outermost series of newl}- made cells into liber need not neces- 

 sarily operate so exactly as to make them perfect to this end — a 

 few ma}' be thrown off into the liber as generative tissue — and, 

 granting this possibilit}', we see how the woody granules in the 

 apple bark are formed. 



How cells usually of one character may be made to assume 

 others is shown in the formation of adventitious buds. Sachs (Text 

 Book, Eng. ed., p. 503) thinks that few dicotyledons produce 

 adventitious buds. The shoots that often spring from the bark 

 of the older stems of trees, he sa3's, are probably from dormant 

 buds which have retained vitalit}^, though buried from the first 

 growth of the stem. This sort of growth is true. Jn Gijmno- 

 cladus the buds formed the first 3'ear in the axil of the leaves are 

 in a linear series of three or more, of which but one is generally 

 seen above the surface ; but after many j'ears, if the bark be gently 

 shaved, these will be found just beneath the surface as they were 

 the first year, liavingkept along their hidden growth all that time. 

 In some magnolias (M. acuminata, M. tripetela), besides the axil- 

 lar}' bud one forms exactly' horizontal to it, on the side opposite to 

 the direction of the spiral growth. This bud is rarely seen above 

 the surface, and has not been before made known to botanists as 

 I believe, but may always be found beneath the surface of the 

 stronger shoots when the bark is gentlj- shaved, no matter how 

 22 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



great may be the age, unless, as sometimes happens, some acci- 

 dent should favor its development to a perfect branch. These are 

 the sort of buds referred to by Prof. Sachs, and of course make 

 up their share of new branches when time comes to favor them. 

 He knew of no dicot^'ledonous tree that could not be made to 

 throw out numerous adventitious buds from any part of its sur- 

 face by sawing off. In our common street maples this was every- 

 day' experience. A few inches below tlie cut genei'ally died back 

 from evaporation of the juices; but when the shoots pushed out 

 the}' came by the dozens in the space of a few inches. Now in the 

 original shoot — the first year's growth — there would be found in 

 a vigorous specimen seldom more than six buds in a length of six 

 inches ; but in a strong six year old branch of maple (Ace?' dasy- 

 carjoura) cut back he had seen as many as ^hy shoots in that 

 space. He exhibited a one year shoot of Cafalpa, where the nor- 

 mal buds were ten inches from each other. In old branches cut 

 back in early winter, so tliat the surf'aci may harden a little 

 before spring, and thus the tree lose little of its juices by evapo- 

 ration, slioots will come out numerously from any part of the foot 

 space between these original buds. 



It was interesting, however, to note that in no case that he 

 knew of would adventitious buds be produced between the nodes 

 from a one year old branch. Such a brancli cut lieneath tlie node 

 invariably' died to the next. It would seem as if the demand on 

 the nutritive powers of the plants for the axial elongation had 

 left the generative tissue with less power than in subsequent years 

 the}' may possess. 



How cells which under some circumstances become permanent 

 tissue, or at best generative tissue, may become tlie parents of 

 adventitious buds and shoots was well shown in cutting down 

 horse chestnuts, some poplars, and some birches. As before 

 said, during the season following the first year, no adventitious 

 buds will form between the nodes, when the branch is shortened ; 

 but in the older trees, the new cells from the generative tissue all 

 along the exposed part or surface of the stump form adventitious 

 buds and brandies. The whole circle between last year's wood 

 and the bark produces a forest of branches. He had seen this 

 also, he said, in Cotyledons and other succulents under green- 

 house culture. 



From these considerations there was no reason why cells, pre- 

 destined, under ordinary' circumstances, to be merely bark cells in 

 their change from wood cells, siiould not occasionally' retain 

 enough of growth force to carry on a feel^le wood constructing 

 system of their own. 



AVe thus come naturallj' to the origin of these woody excres- 

 cences. Imperfecth' formed lil)cr cells, still retaining their genera- 

 tive power, would make a growth tlie next season, forming a layer 

 of wood and making its own cortical layer, simultaneous with 

 the normal wood growth of the tree, assimilating from the same 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



store of reserve material that the normal growth does. The 

 proof of all this lies iu the cutting tlirough longitudinally of one 

 of these excrescences when it will l)e found to have made one 

 more annual layer from the point of its origin than tlie tree itself, 

 showing tliat tlie origin dated from a double set of germinating 

 cells in that one year. 



Where, as in tlie weeping willow and cherry, the excrescences 

 are protruded much bevond the normal diameter of the tree, the 

 annual layers of wood are on the average thicker, through having 

 assimilated a greater share of food ; as is generally the case with 

 cells situated above an obstruction, for instance, as when a wire 

 is fastened around a branch, a ring of l)ark taken off, or other means 

 employed to interfere with the connection between root and foliage. 



Mr. Meehan furtiier said that explanation of growth in connec- 

 tion with these excrescences, explained also much that was usually 

 inexplicable in the various excentrieities of growth. He exhibited 

 a specimen of a trunk of a Bauhiniu^ presented to the Academ^^ 

 by the Brazilian Centennial Commission, in which the wood 

 seemed a mere fasciculus of many separate stems, forming a sort 

 of ligneous mosaic work. The trunk was about six inches in one 

 direction, and two in the othei*. The first year's grovvth, round 

 the small pith, was circular; the subsequent ones irregular 

 through the varying powers of growth in the germinating tissue. 

 Ver}' often, but a very small section of the previous year's circle 

 of wood Avould germinate, in which case the whole growth would 

 be made from that point pressing round and over, with great 

 luxuriance, and enveloping the bark as well as wood of the i)re- 

 vions year. Mr. Meehan thought it quite likel}' that the cases of 

 Wiiitaria with bark between some of the annual layers of wood, 

 might be explained in a similar way.' The subject of the excen- 

 tricity of the annual layers of wood in trees could also be under- 

 stood, keeping in mind the generating tissue, and its varj-ing 

 powers of life and transformation. Anything which favored 

 nutrition in one jjart of the mass of cells more than in another, 

 would increase their power of growth, and induce thicker la3'ers 

 at that point than in others. A very hot sun on one side, or in 

 one season on one side, or on particular spots on one side, induc- 

 ing an inordinate evaporation from those parts, would weaken the 

 vital power of the cells just there. The germination would be 

 weak, and the woody layer thin. Cold winds on one side in very 



' Since making the above remarks I have had brought to my attention 

 that in 1873, M. LicopoH, of Naples, in some publication not known at 

 this writing, has suggested that tlie appearance of bark mixed with the 

 wood of Wistaria is due to the formation of woodj' matter by the bark, 

 which wood then continues to grow, and leaves the bark, as it were, behind 

 the wood, instead of being pushed steadily before, as in normal wood 

 growth. Although sure that my fticts were as I detailed them, it is pleas- 

 ant to have the confirmation of my views of these abnormal wood growths 

 in this independent way. 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187G. 



cold weather would have the same effect in some cases. The con- 

 tinual blowing of trees alwaj's in one direction might favor 

 assimilation l\y tlie cells on one side more than on the other, or 

 even the closer proximit}' of some cells to healthy foliage or vigor- 

 ous roots, would give them a great advantage over others, and 

 the layer would thicken. In some plants there was pretty equally 

 divided power. The whole mass of tissue seemed equally and 

 regularly vitalized, and the generative tissue formed a new layer 

 of wood of about equal thickness all round. But in other trees 

 some masses of cells seemed to easily draw from the others more 

 than their share, and tiie latter were correspondingly^ weakened. 

 This was beautifully illustrated in the Hornbeam {Garpimis 

 Americana). Here the irregularities in the thickness of the annual 

 layers defied all system. They might be very thick at one point, 

 and 3'et at an inch or two above or below the same layer, be very 

 thin. The red cedar {Juniperus Virginiana) exiiibited similar 

 characters, except that the loss of generative power in some of the 

 cells was more uniformly in a direction lengthwise with the stem. 

 In a section he had recently examined the annual layers were 

 tolerably regular for fifteen years. A j'oung tree of the same 

 species had then grown up close to it on one side, and the annual 

 layers became thinner, finally ceasing there. The other sides grew 

 on as before, the layers tapering, with the weakened vitality, to 

 where the tissue was whoU}' at rest. So in various parts of the 

 outline could be noted the time when various parts of the g<;ne- 

 rative tissue lost vital power. In one part of the section, in a 

 direct line from the centre, there was a continuous and nearly 

 regular annual layer for over fifty years ; but in many directions, 

 by counting the rings or layers, the time could be traced when 

 the tissue ceased to be generative or almost so, fifteen, eighteen, 

 twenty-eight, and so on. All the cases of peculiar excentricities, 

 Hedera^ Toxicodendron ., Ampelopsis, and the peculiar cases of 

 ordinar}' timber trees, could be explained by this, so fur as to note 

 that the immediate law was a loss of generative power in the cells 

 of the annual layer. Of course, the indirect causes leading to this 

 would be very numerous, and left room for much more investi- 

 gation. The remarks were made as much as possible in lan- 

 guage divested of botanical technicalities for the benefit of those 

 inteiested in the many other brandies of science present; but 

 those who would pursue the subject of wood-growth, as described 

 heie and applied to the explanation of excrescences and eccentri- 

 cities, arc referred to Sach's Text Book of Botany. 



Mr. Martindale incpiired if Mr. Meehan had noted the square 

 growth of a coniferous truidc from the Pacific coast, on exhibition 

 at the recent Centennial, and if that growth could be accounted 

 for on Ills explanations ? 



Mr. Meehan replied that he had examined that trunk. It was 

 square only at the lower end. It was of Picca amabilis. At the 

 four corners the annual layers were thicker than at the sides. He 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3o3 



had no doubt that in that case, and in similar ones if the}'- were 

 repeated, four strong roots had grown out at nearly' equal dis- 

 tances, and the mass of cells nearest to these roots had an advan- 

 tage in nutrition. We saw this in the trees of our own forests. 

 Just in proportion to the vigor of the roots below was the thick- 

 ness and irregularii}' of the trunk for a considerable distance 

 above. If these trees had but four main roots of equal strength 

 at equal distances, a portion of the trunk would be about square. 



Mr. J. H. Kedtield inquired whether Mr. Meeliau would class 

 C3'press knees among the excrescences he had descrilied ? 



Mr. Meehan replied not, as they were an outgrowth from the 

 normal woody system of the roots of the tree, while the excres- 

 cences originated in the liber, or the tissue very closely allied 

 thereto. 



Pickeringite from Colorado. — Mr. E. Goldsmith stated that he 

 has observed, in the Mineralogical Collection of the Academ}', a 

 white mineral which had not been determined. His examination, 

 which was princii)ally a chemical analysis, proved it to be the 

 above-named species. As Peru and Nova Scotia are localities 

 where this mineral has been found previously (see Dana's Descrip- 

 tive Min., p. (153), this seems to be the first ol>servation of Picker- 

 ingite in the U. S. Dr. John LeConte collected it. 'Ihe particu- 

 lar note on his label is, near Monument, near Colorado Cit}', Col. 

 Terr. 



The mineral is crystallized in very thin needles, which can only 

 be seen when it is broken ; these crystals keep within the mass 

 well. Externally it is apt to become powdery. Its taste is as- 

 tringent. 



Hardness about = 1. 



Specific gravity in oil of turpentine := 3.010.") 

 " " ' " water = 1.7290 



In the flame reaction he noticed the presence of sodium and 

 potassium. The last element has been noticed l)y How in the 

 Pickeringite from Nova Scotia. Sodium seems not to exist iu 

 the compound found in Nova Scotia or Peru. 



The blowpipe reaction indicated water, alumina, and sulphuric 

 acid. 



The qualitative analysis i)roved also the occurrence of a minute 

 quantity of proto and sesquioxide of iron, and magnesia was re- 

 cognized to lie in the solution. 



The quantitative analysis gave this result : — 



§ = 38.09 per cent. 



SI = 11.90 " 



Ms? = 4.89 " 



(Ka) Na = 0.68 " 



Sand = 1.90 " 



By difference It = 41.94 " 



100.00 " 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18Y6. 



He was inclined to believe that the average sample had lost 

 some water of crystallization. 



An attempt was made to separate the potassa from the soda, 

 Avhicli were botli in combination witii chlorine, luit the reagent 

 applied failed to affect it. The chloride of potassium could have 

 been but a trace. Having also observe<l that the quantity of iron 

 in the mineral was small, it was considered useless to measure it, 



EpHiomife on Brick-iualh. — Mr. Goldsmith remarked, with the 

 beginning of the cold season the brick-walls of Philadelphia often 

 become coated with a whitish incrustation. The supposition was 

 current, to some extent, that the incrustation was a mixture of 

 chloride and nitrate of sodium. 



Mr. W. H. Dougiierty, of this city, collected, in the beginning 

 of December, a suflicient quantity of it, and examined it chemi- 

 cally ; to his surprise he found tliat it reacted strongl}' on mag- 

 nesia and sulphuric acid. The gentleman handed to Mr. G. some 

 of the substance, which the latter redetermined. The result was 

 the same. The epsomite contained besides, as an impurit}', a 

 small quantity of sodium, potassium, and chlorine. 



Mr. Dougherty endeavored to trace out the origin of the ep- 

 somite, and aual3'zed some mortar which he collected from a wall 

 that had on its surface this soluble salt. The reactions obtained 

 proved that it was present. AVhen fresh mortar was treated in 

 the same way the presence of magnesia was recognized, but sul- 

 phuric acid was not found in it. 



The idea that sulphuric acid, in a free state, could be present in 

 bricks is improbable ; hence, a plausible hypothesis is offered to 

 explain its presence : The coal and gas used in the city contain 

 small quantities of sulphur, which, when burnt, is oxidized into 

 sulphnric acid, and this, being precipitated on the wall, will event- 

 uall}' also touch i)art of the mortar, out of which it will extract 

 the magnesia, and thus form epsomite. From this explanation it 

 may be inferred that the lime in the mortar cannot be any longer 

 caustic, for caustic lime will not permit the sulphuric acid to com- 

 bine with magnesia, as long as it is present in the mixture. The 

 lime in mortar is converted into silicate of lime, but whether the 

 magnesia is also changetl into a silicate is, I presume, not known 

 at present. 



December 26. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tiie chair. 

 Seventy-four memi)ers present. 

 The following papers were ordered to be printed: — 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



NOTES ON FISHES FROM THE ISTHMUS OF PANAMA, COLLECTED BY 

 DR. J. F. BRANSFORD, U. S. N. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



The present article is devoted to an enumeration of fishes col- 

 lected by Dr. Bransford during a recent survey of the Isthmus. 

 Although small in numbers, the collection is of considerable in- 

 terest, inasmuch as there are in it several new species, and among 

 them representatives of two genera which have not before been 

 known to be represented in that country. These, for the Isth- 

 mus, new generic types, are Plalypoecilua, hitherto exemplified by 

 a single Mexican species, and Piabucina, previously known only 

 from two species found in Guiana and Yenezuela. 



I have adopted the formulas employed by Dr. Giinther, to 

 enable comparisons readily to be made with the descriptions of 

 the new species. 



GOBIUS SOPORATOR. 



Synonymy. 

 Gobinssoporator, Cuv. and Val.^ Hist. Xat. clesPoiss.,vol. xii. p. .56 ; Gtti'ch., 

 Hist. Cub. por de la Sagra, Poissons, p. 127 ; Giinther, Cat. Fishes 

 B. M., vol. iii. p. 2G ; il>. Trans. Zool. Soc. Loudon, vol, vi. p. 388 

 (" Atl. and Pac. Panama.") 



One specimen was obtained at Washington Station. 



CICHLASOMA CCERULEOPUNCTATA. 



Synonymy. 

 Acara crtruleopunctata, Kner and SteindarJier, Sitzurgsber. d. bayer. Akad. 

 dl. W., 1863, p. 222; ib., Abliaudlungen d. bayer Akad. der W., 

 II. CI., b. X., p. 16, tab. 2, fig. 3. 1864 ; Giinther, Trans. Zool. Soc. 

 London, vol. vi. p. 449, 1868. 

 A number of specimens were obtained from difterent localities, 

 viz , Empire Station, February, 1875 ; Rio Frijoli, March, 1875; 

 and Bahia Soldado, March, 1875. 



PLATYPCECILUS MENTALIS. 

 D. 10. A. 9. V. 6. L. lat. 2.j. L. tr. 7. 



Body regularl}'^ compressed backwards, and moderately ele- 

 vated ; its greatest depth being in advance of the dorsal fin, and 

 contained three and a half times in the total length, Avithout the 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [IStG. 



caudal ; head less compressed than the bod\' ; the width of the 

 intei'orbital space is less than one-half the entire length of the 

 head ; tlie length is contained three times and a half in the entire 

 length without the caudal ; the diameter of the eye considerably 

 exceeds the length of the snout, and equals one-third the length of 

 the head; the dorsal fin is moderate, higher than long, and its 

 origin is about midway between the snout and the middle of the 

 caudal fin; anal fin small; its origin is opposite the middle of 

 the dorsal fin ; caudal fin round, equal to tlie length of the head ; 

 its depth at base equals three-fourths the length of the head ; the 

 pectoral fin extends considerably beyond the root of the ventral ; 

 the ventral does not reach the origin of the anal. The color is a 

 uniform brownish-olive, with no caudal spot ; a linear band ci'osses 

 the chin parallel with the lip ; the dorsal has a deep, black, band- 

 like spot near the base crossing the anterior half. 



A single female specimen, 65 millimetres long, w-as obtained 

 from a stream on the Atlantic side of the Isthmus. 



Inasmuch as this species agrees with Platypoecilus maculatus 

 generically in the position of the ventral fins under the dorsal, 

 and thus differs from all related forms, it appears to be conge- 

 neric with it. It, however, differs much in the comparatively 

 elongated body and less number of rows of scales between the 

 dorsal and anal, as well as in other respects. 



ASTYNAX a;NEUS. 



Synonymy. 

 Tetragonopterus penens, GiliitJier, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1860, p. 319; 

 ib., Cat. Fishes B. M., vol. v. p. 320 ; Kiier and Steindachner, Ab- 

 handl. k. bayer. Akad. W., II. CI., b. x. p. 4G ; Giiiither, Trans. 

 Zool. Soc. London, vol. vi. pp. 394, 478. 



Numerous small specimens, which would at least have been 

 referred b}'^ Mess. Kner and Steindacher to this species, were ob- 

 tained from Empire Station, Baliia Soldado, and the Rio Frijoli. 



PIABUCINA PANAMENSIS. 

 D. 10. A. 12. L. lat. 3:). L. trans. 8. 



The height of the body equals one-fourth of the length, exclud- 

 ing, and one-fifth of tlie total, including tlic caudal ; the head 

 enters a little less than three and a half times in the lengtli, ex- 

 clusive of the caudal ; the lower jaw projects slightl}- beyond the 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. SSt 



upper ; the supramaxillary extends below the anterior half of the 

 eye; the diameter of the eye equals about three-fourths of the 

 interorbital space, is somewhat greater than the length of the 

 snout, and about one-fourth the length of the head ; the middle 

 postorbital about as high as long ; the dorsal fin commences 

 nearer the snout than the sinus of the caudal fin, and behind the 

 vertical from the ventrals ; caudal emarginated, scaly at its base ; 

 the pectoral fin equals about one-fourth the length of the head, 

 and its point is about intermediate between its upper axil and the 

 ventral ; ventrals decidedly shorter than the pectorals. The color 

 is yellowish-brown, with a dark lateral band extending from the 

 post-humeral spot to a dark area at the base of the caudal ; the 

 dorsal fin has a black spot near the base, which crosses the ante- 

 rior rays. 



Three specimens — an old and young — wei-e collected in the Rio 

 Frijoli, and an adult in another stream emptying into tlie Atlan- 

 tic. The two adults were 82 millimetres long. 



This species is interesting on account of its western and north- 

 ern habitat, Piahacina en/thrinoides having been discovered in 

 Lake Maracaibo, and Piahucina uvitseniata in British Guiana. 

 The present species is most nearly related to the former, but dif- 

 fers in the smaller scales and othervvise. 



RHAMDIA BRANSFORDII. 

 D. I. 6. A. 12. 



The head is covered with soft skin above; the adipose fin is 

 long, and enters two and two-thirds times in the total length 

 witliout caudal ; its distance from the dorsal is only equal to half 

 the length of the dorsal; the maxillary barbels extend behind the 

 anus, or the origin of the adipose dorsal, and the outer ones of 

 the mandible beyond the inner axil of the pectorals ; the height 

 of the bod}^ below the dorsal equals nearly one-fifth of the total 

 length without the caudal ; the head forms less than one-fourth 

 of the length without the caudal; the lower jaw is considerably 

 the shorter ; the band of intermaxillary teeth is about six times 

 as wide as deep; the eyes are nearly midway between the snout 

 and subopercular margin ; and the diameter is contained two and 

 a half times in the width of the interocular space; the dorsal fin 

 is scarcel}' higher than long ; its first spine is quite slender, and 

 equal to about three-fourths of the head's length ; the pectoral 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18^6. 



spine is half as long as the head ; a minute porus axillaris is de- 

 veloped ; the posterior rays of the anal fin, when depressed, fall 

 some distance short of the end of the adipose fin ; tlie free por- 

 tion of the tail is somewhat liigher than long; caudal fin forked, 

 with both lobes rounded ; the length of the lower is contained 

 five and a half times in the total ; the color is a uniform purplish- 

 brown ; the dorsal fin lightened by the usual basal cross-band. 

 A single specimen was obtained at Camp Marie Caretta, January, 

 18V5. 



The specimen is distinguished from those of R. Wagneri de- 

 scribed, by the proportions, although it is possible that it may be 

 conspecific with them. 



LORICARIA URACANTHA. 



Loricaria iiracantha, Kner and Steindachner, Abhandl. bfiyer. Akad. 

 Wiss., 11. C]., b. X., p. 56, taf. 6, fig. 3 ; Guntker, Traus. Zool. Soc. 

 London, vol. vi. pp. 393, 478. 



Eight specimens were obtained at Empire Station. 



LORICASIA BEANSFOEDI. 

 D. 1, 7. A. 6. V. 1, 5. 



Snout (probably broad? — broken off); eye small, its vertical 

 diameter being about equal to half of the width of the interor- 

 bital space; the space itself is flat, and the orbits are surmounted 

 by slight crests ; the posterior portion of each orbit has a slight 

 notch tending upwards; (teeth probably' small, and numerous in 

 both jaws ?) ; lower side of the head naked ; opercula and the 

 marginal scutes of the head with a broad, dense band of nearly 

 equal erectile bristles ; scutes of the neck with two obsolete 

 carinae ; L. lat. 28 ; there are six lateral scutes between the pec- 

 toral and ventral fins ; the scutes of the thorax are polygonal 

 and in irregular rows ; those of the belly scale-like — i. e., with 

 convex margins-:-and arranged in transverse rows, somewhat 

 arched forwards; the two lateral ridges coalesce on the eighteenth 

 lateral shield ; the origin of the dorsal fin is nearly above the 

 middle of the base of the ventral fin; the caudal fin is slightly 

 emarginated, with its upper lobe somewhat produced, and with 

 the upper spine somewhat swollen at its basal half, the lower lobe 

 obli([uely truncated. The color is yellowish-brown ; the fins 

 with tlieir rays only banded or spotted. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



A single specimen, somewhat over 130 millimetres long, was 

 obtained at Empire Station. The snout and jaws have been lost, 

 and consequently some important characters require to be as- 

 certained. The species is, however, evidently nearly related to 

 the Loricaria lima of Kner, but is distinguished by differences in 

 proportions. I take pleasure in connecting with it the name of 

 the discoverer, Dr. Bransford. 



CH^TOSTOMUS CIERHOSUS. 



Synonymy. 

 Hypostomus cirrhosns, Val., Voyage Amer. Merid. par d'Orbigny, Poiss., 



pi. 7, fig. 3; Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss., t. xv. p. 511. 

 Ancistrus cirrhosus, Kner and 8teindachnei\ Abliaudl. baj-er. Akad. Wiss., 



II. CI., b. X. p. 61. 

 Cbfetostomus cirrhosus, 6unt?iei\ Cat. Fishes B. M., vol. v. p. 347; ib., 



Trans. Zool. Soc. London, vol. vi. pp. 393, 478. 



Two specimens were obtained, one at Camp Marie Caretta, 

 March 27, 1875, and the other at Empire Station. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



ON SOME EXTINCT REPTILES AND BATRACHIA FROM THE JUDITH 

 RIVER AND FOX HILLS BEDS OF MONTANA. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



L^LAPS, Cope. 

 Proceed. Acad., Phila., 1866, p. 275. Extinct Batr. Rept. N. Amer., 1869, p. 100. 



Two species of this genus were described in the latter memoir 

 above cited, the L. aquihuiguis, Cope, and L. macrojnis, Cope, l)oth 

 from the greensand or Fox Hills group of tlie cretaceous of New 

 Jerse}'. A considerable portion of the skeleton of the former 

 was described, including the peculiarities of the ankle-joint, whicli 

 led me to the conclusion, previously unsuspected by naturalists, 

 that the Dinoaauria present affinities to the cursorial birds. Tlie 

 teeth of this species were described and figured, but in the L.ma- 

 cropus they were, and still remain, unknown. 



In a preliminary report on the extinct vertebrata obtained by 

 the writer on the Upper Missouri tlie present 3'ear, three addi- 

 titional species were referred to this genus, viz. : the LselajJS 

 incrassafus; L. explanatus^ and L. f ale id us. Tlieir characters 

 were ascertained from teeth alone, so that their pertinence to the 

 genus Lselaps is not fully assured. A fourth species of carniv- 

 orous dinosaurian was described under the name of Aublysodon 

 lateralis. 



One of the most valuable specimens obtained bj- m^^ expedition 

 of 1876, is the nearl}^ entire left dentary bone of the Lselaps incras- 

 satus, which exhibits the teetli of its two exti-emities. The different 

 forms of the teeth of the carnivorous Dinosauria graduate into each 

 other by such easy stages, as to have given rise to question in ref- 

 erence to their proper interpretation ; whether they indicate differ- 

 ent species or only different positions in the dental series. In de- 

 scribing the Aublysodon hor7'idus, the first known of the species of 

 the Judith River beds, Dr: Leidy expressed the suspicion that a cer- 

 tain form characterized the teeth in the position of incisors, anotiier 

 those in the position of canines, and another form the remainder 

 of the series. The teeth of the last kind have the form of those 

 of Lvelajjs; in others the posterior serrulate cutting edge is 




IStG.] NATURAL SCIENCES Or PHILADELPHIA. 341 



latero-posteiior, the posterior aspect being thickened, and either 

 transverse or convex in section. In the supposed canines tiie 

 anterior serrulate edge is wanting, or represented by a second 

 posterior edge parallel with the original one, thus forming a com- 

 l)ressed chair-shaped crown. Numerous specimens of all these 

 forms were obtained by the expedition. 



Exammation of the dental series of the Lselaps incrasaatus 

 shows that the antero-posterior diameter of one or two teeth 

 in the position of canine, becomes oblique in the curved long 

 axis of the dentary bone. The transverse diameter is also greatly 

 increased so as to equal or even exceed the antero-posterior ; the 

 serrate edges are opposite to each other. A tooth of this type 

 was the first of this species which I observed, and the name has 

 reference to its peculiar form. A tooth in the position of first or 

 anterior incisor, ciiffers in having the anterior serrate crest re- 

 moved to the middle of the inner aspect of the apical portion of 

 the crown, while tbe posterior edge retains its usual position. 

 Further posterior transier of the anterior cutting edge and a 

 grooving of the posterior face, would produce a tooth of the form 

 suspected b}'^ Leidy to be the canine of Aublysodon hon-idus^ 

 while the canine just described is difterent from any tooth refer- 

 red by Leid}^ to the same species. But a large tooth found in 

 immediate association with the jaw, but sej^arated from it, has the 

 posteriorly truncate form described b}' Leidy as typical, and is very 

 probablj^ the tooth of the maxillar}- bone, near the position of the 

 superior canine of a mammal. 



It maj' be observed in conclusion, that if the teeth suspected 

 by Leidy to be canines of Auhlysodov horridus. but which I sup- 

 pose to be incisors, are really such, Avblysodon must be regarded 

 as a genus distinct from Lselaps ; while, on the other hand, should 

 such determination prove to be inadmissible, and the two genera 

 be the same, the name Lselaps must be preserved as the older; it 

 was published in 1866, while Attblysodon bears date 1868. 



In examining the very numerous teeth discoA^ered bj' the expe- 

 dition, I find four species in addition to those already named. A 

 list of all the species is now given. 



Laelaps inorassatus, Cope, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci.1876, Oct. 



The dentary bone of this species, above alluded to, is of com- 

 pressed form, and becomes thin and plate-like in its posterior por- 

 tion. The latter is excavated on the inner side, where it is proba- 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



bly applied to the opercular and surangular bones, if they exist, 

 and a large foramen is continued from the concavity into the 

 remaining part of the dentar}', as a tubular canal. Above the 

 foramen there originates a groove which runs parallel to the inner 

 alveolar border to the posterior edge of the symphysis. The 

 latter is short, and scarcely distinguished from the other surfaces; 

 the attachment of the rami was evidently ligamentous and more 

 or less movable. The anterior alveolar portion of the ramus is 

 produced, so that the S3^raph3'sis slopes backwards below. The 

 inferior border of the dentary bone is gently concave behind its 

 middle. It is throughout convex in the transverse direction. 



The external alveolar wall is an inch higher than the internal. 

 The inner portions of the septa are apparently- subject to exfolia- 

 tion and subdivision in connection with the renewal of the teeth 

 as a groove which is continuous with the inner alveolar borders, 

 cuts them off from the other interior surface of the dentary bone. 

 The external face of the dentary is in general plane, but is vari- 

 ously excavated along its superior border. An inch below the 

 latter there extends a series of large foramina, each one of which 

 is situated opposite to an interalveolar septum. The}' are more 

 numerous anteriorl}'^, a foramen being opposite each alveolus as 

 well, and each foramen is connected with the border by a shallow 

 groove. Similar foramina extend down the outer side of the 

 symphyseal border, and along the inferior border of the dentary 

 for two-thirds of its length. The same proportion of the external 

 face is obsoletely rugose through the presence of delicate lines of 

 growth. Such lines extend on the lower part of the interior face 

 obliquel}' upwards and backwards. 



There are alveolfe for fifteen teeth in the dentary bone. Of 

 these only the second, third, fourth, fifth, twelfth, and fifteenth 

 contained teeth capable of functional use at the time the jaw was 

 inclosed in the lacustrine mud. Successional teeth occupy the 

 first, tenth, and twelfth, but no two teeth are in an identical stage 

 of protrusion. The section of the crown from and including the 

 fourth to the last is nearly cquilaterall^- lenticular. Their surface 

 is smooth. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



Measurenients . M. 



Length of entire dentary bone . 525 



Depth at posterior border of symphysis 110 



" " last tooth 193 



" to internal groove 060 



" " " foramen 074 



Length of crown of second tooth ..... .029 



( antero-posterior . . .013 

 Diameter of second tooth at base < . f.^^ 



(transverse . . . .018 



Length of crown of twelfth tooth 043 



(antero-posterior. . .025 

 Diameter at base of twelfth tooth < f,,.,„.,,„,.eo m r, 



Lengtli of crowu of superior ?cauiue .... 063 



Antero-posterior diameter of do. 028 



As compared with the Lselaps aqnilunguis, of which a portion 

 of the dentary bone is linown, this species differs in the greater 

 diameter of its inferior border anteriorly-, in the presence of the 

 internal groove, in the greater elevation of the external alveolar 

 wall, and, if the character be constant, in the greater robustness 

 of the form of the dental crowns. The individnal here described 

 is rather larger than the type of L. aqmlunguii<, but it is probable 

 that the species were not very diff"erent in dimensions. 

 Laelaps hazenianus, sp. nov. 



Seven teeth from different localities present constant charac- 

 ters which readily distinguish them from all other species of the 

 genus. Their size is less than those of the two species above 

 mentioned, and is greater than in the species enumerated below. 



The crowns are short and robust, and are abruptly terminated 

 by the strong recurvature of the anterior cutting edge. The apex 

 has, therefore, a more posterior direction than in the L. iiicrassa- 

 tus, while the anterior cutting edge is shorter. The latter is short- 

 ened below also, not extending to the base of the enamel, but ter- 

 minating in a short lateral curvature. At tlie base, therefore, the 

 anterior border is rounded, while the posterior is acute. The 

 denticulations are of medium size, measuring M. .0003-3. 



Measurements. M. 



Length of crown . .014 



( antero-posterior Oil 



Diameter of crown ■? . „„_ 



( transverse 007 



Both sides are convex, but not equally so, and the surface is 

 smooth, and witliout facets. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



This saurian is dedicated to General Hazen, now in command at 

 Fort Buford, Dakota, as a tol?en of respect for his qualities as a 

 man and his services in the interest of science. 

 Lselaps Isevifrons, sp. nov. 



A tooth half the size of those referred to the L.hazenianus, and 

 exceeding h}- a little the largest of those of L. explanatus, pre- 

 sents such characters as induce me to believe that it belongs to a 

 species distinct from either. It is of the elongate acuminate form 

 of some of those I'eferred to the L. v}C7-assatus, and both sides ai'c 

 convex, but not equally so. A shallowly concave plane occupies 

 the middle of the more convex side. The posterior cutting edge 

 is denticulate to the base, but the anterior, though of the same 

 form as in the other species, and unworn, is absolutely smooth. 

 In this respect it difiers from the other species, excepting L. fal- 

 culus. The denticulatious are finer than those of an^'- other spe- 

 cies, measuring M. .00020; in L. explanatus they measure M. 

 .00022. 



Mecuibrements. m. 



Elevation of crown 015 



( anteroposterior 007 



Diameter of crown \ . rvo* 



( transverse 004 



Laelaps explanatus, Cope, Proceedings Academy, October, 1876. 

 Laelaps falculus, Cope, loc. cit. 

 Laelaps cristatus, Cope, sp. nov. 



Another small species well distinguished by the form and 

 coarse denticulation of the teeth, approaching the genus TroUdon. 



The crowns of the teeth are short, stout, compressed, and 

 curved. Both sides are convex, and neither is facetted. The 

 denticles are large, those of the posterior cutting edge the largest, 

 and measuring M. .0005. A characteristic feature is the full devel- 

 opment of the denticulate anterior cutting edge of the crown. 

 This extends to the base, becoming more prominent as it descends. 

 Surface smooth. 



Measurements. m. 



Elevation of croAvn Oil 



^. , c antero-nostcrior 006 



Diameter of crown \ , ^„o 



( transverse 003 



ZAPSALIS, Cope. 



Tiie teeth of this genus arc intermediate in form between those 

 of Lxlaps and Paronychodon. They have one flat and one con- 




ISTG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



vex side, whose junctions form the anterior and posterior edges 

 of the crown, as in the latter genus ; and like the latter, there is 

 no anterior cutting edge, but instead, a solid angle. But the pos- 

 terior edge is denticulate as in Laelaps, and the plicse or keels of 

 Paronycliodon are here only recognizable in low angles. Some 

 light may be cast on the affinities of the latter genus by the dis- 

 covery of Zapsalis. 

 Zapsalis abradens, sp. nov. 



This reptile was apparently about the size of the Laelaps 

 laemfrons. The best preserved tooth is that of a probably adult 

 animal, as it displa^ys considerable attrition, especially on the 

 flat side. Here three worn lines indicate the former existence of 

 as many low longitudinal angles of the sui'face, of which the 

 median is basal and short. The convex side exhibits four low 

 angles of nearly equal length, all stopping short of the apex. 

 The facets between them, excepting the anterior two, are slightly 

 concave. The denticles are of moderate coarseness, measuring 



M. .00033. 



Measurements. m. 



Elevation of crown .0120 



( antero-posterior 0065 



Diameter of crown I jj.^,^g^.^j.^g 0030 



UKONAUTES, Cope. 



Genus novum Sauropterygiariim. Cervical vertebrae, like the 

 dorsals and caudals, short and transverse, and distinct from each 

 other. Neural arches and transverse processes coossified at ma- 

 turity. Transverse processes of the cervicals simple and depressed. 

 Extremities plesiosauroid. 



This genus might be referred to Polycofylus, Cope, were it not 

 for the distinctness and greater abbreviation of the cervical ver- 

 te.broe. From Cimoliasaurus^ Leidy, it differs in the coossifica- 

 tion of the caudal diapophyses and the much greater abbreviation 

 of the cervical vertebrae. The centra are amphiplatyan in Cimo- 

 Uasaurus, biconcave in Uronautes. From Fliosaurus, Owen, 

 which resembles the present form in the shortness of the cervical 

 vertebrae, the coossified transverse processes of the cervicals sepa- 

 rate it. The present is pre-eminently a short-necked genus of the 

 order. 



The remains on which it reposes are the cervical, dorsal, and 

 caudal vertebrae, w^ilh portions of limb and rib bones. 

 23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18t6. 



"Uronautes cetiformis, sp. nov. 



The cervical vertebra of this species is of unusual form, being 

 short and transverse, and not wider than deep. In Folycotylus 

 latipinnis this vertebra is much wider than deep, and as long as 

 wide. The neuropophyses are compressed so as to be antero- 

 posterior, and the}- inclose a rather wide neural canal. The para- 

 pophyses are directed equally' downwards and outwards, occupy- 

 ing the position of the angle of a subquadrate outline, since the 

 sides are nearly vertical. The articular faces are slightly concave, 

 and the centrum is perforated vertically by the usual two fora- 

 mina. 



A dorsal vertebra found in immediate proximit}' to the cervical 

 just described is much like that of the Polycofylus latipinnis. 

 That is, it is exceedingly short antero-posteriorl}^, and has con- 

 cave articular faces, the concavity with flat fundus, and marked 

 with a few obscure concentric grooves. The sides are also slightly 

 concave, and are pierced with a foramen at the superior portion. 

 The vertical foramina are also present. The neural arch is in 

 this specimen separated from the centrum, not having become 

 coossified. This circumstance might lead to a doubt as to the 

 proper reference of the specimen to this animal, but such doubt 

 has little foundation. In one of the caudal vertebrie one of the 

 diapoph^'ses is coossified, and the other is not. The suture of the 

 surface thus exposed is of a very fine texture, and evidently not 

 like that seen in the genera where it is to act as a permanent 

 articulation. In the case of the dorsal vertebra, the suture for 

 the neuropophysis has the same character. This vertebra is 

 much larger than the cervical, but does not much exceed the 

 proximal caudal in size ; preserving the relations seen in the 

 Folycotylus latipinnis. Adjoining the border of the fossa of the 

 neuropophysis is a small parapophysial tuberosity. 



A proximal caudal vertebra has a very small fore and aft diame- 

 ter, and the vertical exceeds the transverse diameter. The dia- 

 pophyses spring from the middle of the sides of the centrum, 

 while the inferior face is separated from the inferior lateral faces 

 1)3' an obtuse longitudinal angle. In general, the form is that of 

 a transverse hexagon. The chevron facets are very slightl}' de- 

 veloped. Another probably distal caudal vertebra considerably 

 resembles that in the corresponding part of the skeleton of a 

 cetacean. It is without neural arch, transverse, flat below, and 




1876,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



with the two lateral faces of unequal length, the superior being 

 the longer. The vertical perforating foramina join at tlie neural 

 canal, and there is a short subquadrate plane on each side of the 

 latter. There are no indications of chevron facets. These verte- 

 brae are diflerent from an}^ of those jet known in Folycotylus. 



Measurements. m, 



, anteroposterior . . .016 



Diameter of a cervical ceutruui * vertical .... .026 



(transverse . . . .029 



/ antero-posterior 030 



Diameter of a dorsal ^ vertical 055 



(transverse 056 



/antero-posterior . . .023 



Diameter of a proximal caudal I vertical 040 



'transverse 062 



/ antero-posterior . . . .015 



Diameter of a distal caudal < vertical 017 



(.transverse 038 



Diameter of neural canal of the proximal caudal above mea- 

 sured 012 



Do. of diapopbysis of do. at base 018 



The distal end of a proximal limb bone is much like the corre- 

 sponding part of Pohjcotylus latipinnis. It is relatively of large 

 size, flat, and strongly convex at the extremity, which is not 

 transversely truncate. A portion of another limb bone, perhaps 

 belonging to the distal segment, is symmetrical. The shaft is 

 broken off, and displaj's a large medullary cavity, with thin walls, 

 which soon terminates towards the articular end, in a fundus with 

 a fissure in the bottom. The proximal portion of a rib has a 

 truncate head of an oval outline. The inferior border presents a 

 low tuberosity, which may represent the capitulum. 



Measiirements . ' m. 



"Width of distal end of proximal limb bone . . . .109 



Thickness of the same 033 



(longer 030 



Diameter of proximal end of a rib < . orter O'^S 



The bones above described were found together bj- the writer, 

 on a slope of the cream-colored soft sandstone, which lies above 

 the black shales of Cretaceous No. 4, near Amell's Creek, Mon- 

 tana. I suppose the formation to be the No. 5, or Fox llills 

 group of Meek and Ilaydcn. Near them were found shark's teeth 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T6. 



of the genera Ofodvs anrl Lamna. and a species of Enchodns. 

 AboA'e them I found 13'ing loose a fragment of a Baculites. 



CHAMPSOSATJETJS, Cope. 



Genu? vovum. Tertebrae of more than a hundred individuals 

 referable to several species, which I obtained from the Judith River 

 beds of the Upper Missouri region, present characters which de- 

 mand the establishment of a new genus for their reception. 



The characters presented b3' the vertebral column are the fol- 

 lowing: The ribs have a single head, which articulates with a 

 prominent tuberculum, excepting those of the cervical vertebrae. 

 On these tiiere is a small capitular tubercle below the diapophysis. 

 It commences ver^- small, and inferior in position, being removed, 

 in fact, but a short distance from the inferior middle line in the 

 first vertebra in which it appears. It rises rapidly in the suc- 

 ceeding centra until it is merged in the tuberculum of the diapo- 

 physis. The latter projects from the neural arch, which is free 

 from the centrum, but in none does the base of the diapophj'sis 

 rise from a point above the floor of the neural canal. On the dor- 

 sals it is vertically compressed. One of the anterior cervicals, 

 probaVily the axis, is obliquely truncated below its anterior articu- 

 lar face, for a free hypopophj-sis or o.s odontoideum. This vertebra 

 has no parapophysis, and the articular faces for the neuropophysis 

 are superior. The few vertebrae in each of several series, probably 

 from the sacral region, are more depressed than the others, and 

 the facets for the diapophyses present a greater antero-posterior 

 extent, but none are coossified. The caudal vertebrae are distally 

 quite compressed. In all, except the anterior ones, the neural 

 arch is coossified with the centrum, and in such there are no dia- 

 poph3'ses. In those with free neural arch, the facets for the 

 neuropopliyses turn down on tlie sides of the centrum. 



The articular extremities of the centra are plane, those of the 

 caudal series slightly concave. There are no hypapophj'ses be- 

 hind the axis, excepting a longitudinal carina, which ceases to 

 exist on the dorsal vertebrae. Tlie zygapoph3-ses are simple. The 

 chevron bones are free. 



The relations of the atlas and axis, though not fully elucidated 

 by ray specimens, are peculiar. The former has separate neura- 

 pophyses, which have nearh'- the shape of those of the Strepto- 

 stylicate Beptilia, resembling much those of the Pifthonomorpha. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



Although I procured uumerous cervical vertebra?, there are but 

 few which exliibit the antero-inferior facet for supposed hj^papo- 

 physis, already described. The position of this vertebra was in 

 front of the first cervical which displays a parapophysis, and is, 

 on tliis account, likely to be the axis or the third cervical vertebra. 

 It is the more probablj' tlie axis, as there is no other among the 

 large number of vertebrae in my collection which can be referred 

 to that position. Its anterior articular face is smooth and like 

 the posterior, showing that the odontoid bone was not coossified 

 with it. Now in the Crocodilia the odontoid bone is united with 

 the anterior extremity' of the axis by suture, which ma}^ become 

 coossified with age, while the free hypapophysis is wanting. In 

 the streptostylicate orders the hypapophysis is present, and the 

 odontoid is above it, but united to the axis b}' suture. On the 

 other hand, in the Bhi/nchocephalia, the axis is coossified with both 

 odontoid and hj-papophysis, and a few succeeding vertebrae possess 

 free hypapophyses. Thus it is possible that I am yet unacquainted 

 with the axis of Chamj^sosaurus. 



One entire rib and the heads of several others are all that were 

 obtained. The former is from the anterior part of the dorsal 

 series, and is stout and short. The head is truncate and com- 

 pi'essed, its articular face is contracted, forming a narrow figure 

 eight. The shaft is obliquely flattened. The extremities are sepa- 

 rated from the lateral surfaces by a narrow angle, as though capped 

 with cartilage in life, as in tlie Pythonomorpha. 



Bones of the extremities are very rare. One fragment resem- 

 bles the proximal end of a crocodilian tibia, and another is like 

 the distal half or more of the tibia of the same type. 



There is considerable resemblance between the vertebra? of this 

 genus and those of Hijposaurui^, Ow., from Cretaceous No. 5, of 

 New Jersey, but the relations of the axis and atlas in that genus 

 are as in other Crocodilia, and not lilie those seen in C/wmpso- 

 saiu^us. The absence of sacrum precludes the possibility of regard- 

 ing tliis form as dinosaurian. It rather seems to share some 

 rhyuchocephalian characters with general amphiplatyan crocodi- 

 lian resemblances. The shortness and robustness of the thoracic 

 ribs is a feature quite unique, and reminds one of the Balrachia. 

 The teeth are unknown in their true relations, but there are several 

 types in the collections which may be found to belong here. These 

 are of the rhizodont character. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1816. 



As a snmniaiy of the preceding, I propose to refer the genus 

 Champsosaurus to the order Rhynchoceplialia^ provisional!}'. It 

 differs very much from the typical genus of that order, Sphenodon, 

 in the non-coossification of the sacral vertebrae, and non-union of 

 the neural arches of the vertebrae with their centra, and the absence 

 of the chordal perforation of the latter. It differs from the ex- 

 tinct genera Clepsydrops and Cricolufi, Cope, in the last men- 

 tioned two characters. On these grounds it ma}' constitute a dis- 

 tinct suborder, under the name of Chorislodera. 



It is possible that the tooth, which I referred to a new genus 

 and species, under the name of Paro»!/c'/(0(7o?i /aci^s7ris( Proceedings 

 Academy, 1876, October), may belong to one of those of the pre- 

 sent genus. In that case the older generic name takes precedence 

 of the later. I may add that some vertebrre of this genus have 

 been figured and described by Dr. Leidy in the Transactions of 

 the American Philos. Society, 1860, without name. 



I recognize four species among the vertebroe, chiefly by charac- 

 ters observed in the cervical region. There is a great discrepancy^ 

 of size among them, and the small ones may be immature. 



Champsosaurus profundus, ?p. nov. 



This species is chiefly known from a series of vertebrae found 

 together, and having every appearance of pertaining to the same 

 animal. It consists of a cervical, three dorsal, and a sacral ver- 

 tebrae. Other isolated vertebrae of several individuals present 

 similar characters. 



The primary feature is the great vertical diameter of the dorsal 

 vertebra? as compared with the transverse measurement. This is 

 occasioned by the great development of the inferior keel, to which 

 the sides of the centrum converge, without concavity. In corre- 

 sponding centra of the C. annectens the inferior face is merely 

 angulate. Another character is the obliquity of the articular 

 faces to a vertical plane drawn at right angles to the long axis of 

 the centrum. This is most strongly marked on posterior dorsals, 

 where the inferior keel is less prominent. The sacral vertebra has 

 a depressed form. 



An anterior caudal vertebra may belong to this or an undescribed 

 species. It has rudiments only of the chevron-facets, and having 

 a large neural arch, is doubtless from the anterior part of the 

 series. It is more comi)ressed than the corresponding one in C. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



annecfe^ia, aud has an acute inferior angle, which is wanting in 

 the latter. 



Measurements. 



No. 1. M. 



r longitudinal 020 



Diameter of cervical centrum ■! vertical 020 



'transverse 018 



autero-posterior . .020 

 Diameter of anterior dorsal centrum -N-ertical . . . .023 



r 



I. transverse . . .019 



No. 2. 



^antero-posterior . .023 

 Diameter of posterior dorsal centrum-! vertical . . . .019 



'transverse . . .019 



Champsosaurus annectena, Cope, sp. nov. 



The greater ntimber of vertebra obtained belong to this saurian, 

 which may therefore be looked upon as the t3'pe of the genus. 



The cervical which bears the hypapophj'sial facet presents a 

 carina below, which is only prominent between the articular faces. 

 One such cervical in the collection is rounded below, and may be 

 anterior in the series, or ma}- belong to another species. The in- 

 ferior keel is strong on the other cervicals, but soon disappears 

 on the anterior dorsals. The remaining centra are rounded be- 

 low. The parapophj'ses where present are knob-like, aud the 

 corresponding part of the transverse process is similar in the 

 anterior dorsal vertebrae. The base of the netiral arch is nearer 

 the anterior than the posterior articular face. These faces are 

 nearly round in the anterior caudal centra, but soon become ver- 

 tical ovals, with the compressed form. There is a fossa below 

 and in front of the parapoph3-sis, which continues to beyond the 

 anterior dorsals. The dense laj-er of the surface of the centrum 

 is smooth, except some delicate striations near the articular 

 borders. These are most marked along the median inferior face 

 of the caudal vertebrje, which is flat, grooved, and distally acute. 

 I cannot certainly connect the vertebrae of a series as those of 

 a single individual. 



Measuremeiits. 



No. 1. M, 



/ antero-posterior .023 



Diameter of a cervical with bj'papophysis } vertical . , .021 



'transverse , .020 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



No. 2. 



antero-posterior 

 Diameter do. T\itbout liypapopbysis -? vertical 



[1876. 



No. 3. 



/ antero-posterior 

 Diameter do. witliont liypapopbysis ■? vertical 



' transverse 

 No. 4. 

 r antero-posterior 

 Diameter of an anterior dorsal ^ vertical 



' transverse . 

 No. 5. 

 / antero-posterior 

 Diameter of an anterior dorsal < vertical 



'transverse 

 No. 6. 



! antero-posterior 

 vertical 

 transverse . 

 No. 7. 



{antero-posterior 

 vertical 

 transverse 

 No. 8. 



/antei'o-posterior 



Diameter of a median caudal < vertical 



' trausvei 



No. 9. 



! antero-posterior 

 vertical 

 transverse . 



M. 



.017 



.0165 



.017 



.011 



.0105 



.011 



.023 

 .023 

 .023 



.008 



.0072 



.0075 



.010 

 .009 

 .009 



.083 

 .053 



.058 



.017 

 .011 

 .011 



.014 



.0086 



.007 



A vertebra not distinguishable from tlie corresponding one of 

 this species was found near Amell's Creek, on a bank of deposit 

 of the Fox Hills group (No. 5), with the bones of the Uronaxdes 

 ccti/oi'mis, supra. I cannot account for this circumstance, as it 

 is the most abundant fossil of the Judith River beds (Xo. G). 



Champsosaurus brevicollis, sp. nov. 



On one occasion the writer discovered a number of vertebra? 

 of this genus close together, and in such relation as to induce the 

 belief that some of them belonged to the same individual. Parts 

 of several were obtained, however, adding another evidence of the 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



manner in which the fossils of this formation have been dislo- 

 cated and scattered. The evidence for the existence of this 

 species must be allowed to rest at present on a cervical vertebra, 

 with free h3^papoph3^sis. This body differs from the corresponding- 

 one in the G. annectens in its greater brevity as compared with 

 its length. The vertical and transverse diameters exceed the 

 longitudinal in the G. brevicollis, while in the G. annectens the 

 length exceeds both. The inferior aspect of this centrum is 

 broadl}' rounded, not carinate as in G. annectens. The value of 

 this character is uncertain, but a centrum similarly rounded be- 

 low (above alluded to) has the more elongate form of the G. an- 

 nectens. 



Measuremerits. m. 



/ antero-posterior 013 



Diameter of centrum J vertical 014 



( transverse 015 



Champsosaurus vaccinsulensis, sp. nov. 



This reptile is indicated by a posterior dorsal vertebra in which 

 the common base of the neural arch and diapopliysis is decurved 

 to below the middle of the side of the centrum. This surface has 

 somewhat the outline of the section of a T-rail, the inner portion 

 being on the superior face of the centrum. The centrum is shorter 

 tiian the corresponding ones of the G. annectens and G. profundus, 

 so that the basis of the neural arch approaches near the borders of 

 the articular faces above. The centrum is perforated by two ver- 

 tical foramina as in most Sau7-opterygia. The osseous tissue of the 

 bone is quite dense, and the surface is smooth. 



Measurements. m. 



/antero-posterior 026 



Diameter of centrum < vertical 029 



'transverse 045 



Besides the much larger size, this species differs from those 

 previouslj' referred to this genus in almost all details of propor- 

 tion, etc. 



SCAPHERPETON, Cope. 



Genus novum Batr acinar um. Yertebrse deeply biconcave, 

 with opposed, but not continuous, foramina for tlie chorda dor- 

 salis. Neural arch with zygapophyses, and well-developed neural 

 spine. Centrum with vertically compressed, short diapophysis 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



near the posterior extremity, a prominent hypapoph3^sial keel, 

 and prolonged neural spine. Supposed proximal limb bone with 

 a branch-like trochanter. Supposed teeth in several rows, at- 

 tached in shallow alveoli, those of the marginal series larger ; the 

 crowns obtusely conic and simple. 



In the above diagnosis are expressed the general characters of a 

 genus of probably tailed Batrachia which has left remains of seve- 

 ral species in the Judith River beds of the Upper Missouri region. 

 Although the vertebrae resemble no little those of clepsydrops, 

 Cope, a rhj^nchocephalian lizard from supposed triassic or perraian 

 formations, the atlas is that of a batrachian. The limb bone pro- 

 bably belonging to it, is unlike that of any genus of the Proteida 

 or Trachystomata, differing also from that of Ifenopoma, but 

 approaching nearly that of the typical salamanders. The diapo- 

 phj'ses are different in form from those of the Trachystomata 

 Proteida and Ampjhiiimidse, but resemble in their vertical com- 

 pression those of Menopoma. They are generall}' broken in the 

 specimens, but where preserved, are mucli shorter than in that 

 genus, being even less produced than in most of the recent sala- 

 manders. The prominent keel of the median line below is not 

 found in salamanders, and it has no posterior prolongation resem- 

 bling the structure seen in Amphiuma and Cseciliidee. The 

 produced neural spine is a character not found among tailed 

 Batrachia, and the posterior direction which it takes reminds one 

 of the Dinosauria more than anything else, and is not like the 

 form seen in LacertiUa. It is a prolongation of the roof-like 

 extension of the neural arch seen in some of the tertiary sala- 

 manders of France, 



The structure of the proximal limb bone, and the form of the 

 diapophyses of the vertebrse refer this genus with much proba- 

 bility to the Urodela. The produced neural arch, and the pro- 

 bably complex disposition of the teeth, indicate a family different 

 from anv of those now living. The biconcave centra place it 

 nearest to the Amtjlystomidae. 



The teeth above mentioned are attached to a fragment of a jaw- 

 bone. The crowns are all imperfect, and mostly broken off. There 

 are three scries of smaller teeth and a marginal series of teeth of one 

 half greater diameter. They exhibit a moderate pulp cavity, and 

 the superficial investment of the crowns is not inflected. It has a 

 minute granular rugosity, and the bases of the teeth are rugose 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



with impressed punctas. The teeth are described here because it 

 is not known to which species they belong. It is, indeed, not 

 certain, but only probable, that they belong to this genus. 



Four atlases preserv^ed indicate two species; one being more 

 depressed than the other three, and the anterior cotyli therefore 

 more transverse. 



The vertebrEB indicate four species. It is probable that they 

 present some pecnlarities at different points in the same column, 

 the caudals at least differing in some degree from the others. The 

 characters of the species are quite well marked. 



Scapherpeton tectum, sp. nov. 



Represented by a vertebra which is one of the best preserved 

 in the collection. The most prominent specific character is seen 

 in the entire roofing over of the neural canal between the anterior 

 z^'gapophyses, and in the doAvnward production of the inferior 

 median line of the centrum, and accompanying downward pro- 

 longation of the articular cups. The chordal i^erforation is at the 

 superior fourth of the vertical diameter of the cups. The neural 

 spine is produced backwards and curved upwards, and is narrowed 

 betweeu the posterior zygapoph^-ses, and is striate grooved on the 

 nnder surface. About half of the posterior zygapophysis projects 

 beyond the edge of the cup of the centrum. Immediately below 

 the anterior edge of the posterior zygapophysis, the diapophysis 

 begins. It is A'ertical, of an irregular figure 8 in section, and is 

 directed outwards and backwards. A foramen passes under its 

 middle, emerging a little before the middle of the same horizontal 

 diameter of the centrum. It is joined b}' another which strikes it 

 from below at right angles. There is a deep notch embraced be- 

 tween the superior part of the diapophysis and the posterior 

 zygapophysis. The neural canal is wider than deep. 



A fragment accompanied this vertebra wheu found, which resem- 

 bles the articular portion of the mandible. There is no angle 

 projecting behind the quadrate facet, which is oblique, truncating 

 the extremity of the ramus. The lower edge is acute, behind 

 roughened, and a thickening extends along the middle of the inner 

 side of the ramus so far as preseived. The character is that of a 

 Urodele Batrachian. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISTfi. 



MeaHurements. M. 



i autero-posterior 0875 



Diameter of centrum ■< vertical 07")0 



'transverse OoOO 



Vertical diameter of diapopliyses 0500 



Transverse diameter of neural spine between posterior zyga- 



popliyses O.jOO 



Depth mandibular ramus at front of quadrate cotylus . .0800 



Scapherpeton laticolle, sp. nov. 



Vertebrae of several individuals of smaller size than those 

 referred to the S. tectum differ in the less extensive development 

 of the roof connecting the anterior zygapophjses, and the greater 

 compression of the centrum, in consequence of the downward pro- 

 duction of the inferior keel. The neural arch is openly notched 

 between the anterior z^'gapophyses, but the notch is bounded by 

 a recurved lamina distinct from the zygapophj'ses. The dia- 

 popliyses are much as in S. tectum; the ridge from the inferior 

 portion of it is quite prominent, and includes with the base of the 

 neural arch a deep fossa. 



Accompanying a dorsal vertebra like those of this species, and 

 probably belonging to the same skeleton, is an atlas of a more 

 depressed form than those presumably belonging to the other 

 species. The median tuberosity is well developed, constricted at 

 the base, and much flattened. The condyloid facets are narrow 

 and transverse. 



Measurements. M. 



iantero-posterior . . . .070 

 vertical 050 

 transverse 030 



Width of the neural canal 020 



Vertical diameter of base of diapophysis .... 030 



If it should appear that the dorsal vertebrae do not represent a 

 species distinct from the 8. tectum, the S. laticolle may rest on 

 the atlas described. 



The limb bone above mentioned is associated with the neural 

 arch of a vertebra of the character ascribed to this species. Both 

 extremities are eroded so as not to display' the forms of the con- 

 dyles, though almost tlie entire length is preserved. The tro- 

 chanter is imperfect, but its base is that of a subcylindric process. 

 The head of the bone is subtriangular. and the section of the 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35T 



distal end an oval with a flat side. Tlie diameter contracts 

 gradually to the middle. 



Measurements. M. 



Length of bone OloO 



Jproximally 0036 

 medially 0019 

 distally 0037 



This bone is plainly that of a nrodele salamander. 

 Scaplierpetoii excisum, sp. nov. 



This salamander is represented in the collection of tlie expedi- 

 tion by vertebroe of three individuals of different sizes. They all 

 agree in having the anterior zygapophyses separated by the con- 

 cave excavation of the roof of the neural canal usual in ordinary 

 salamanders, and in the moderate development of the hj'paiDophy- 

 sial keel. As a result, the articular extremities of tlie centra are 

 not produced so far inferiorly as in B. laticolle. The longitudinal 

 ridge from the inferior part of the diapophysis is pronounced, and 

 separates a deep fossa above it from another below it. The longi- 

 tudinal perforation of the base of the diapophj'sis issues in the 

 superior fossa, while in the two smaller specimens a vertical per- 

 foration joins it from the inferior fossa. As in the preceding two 

 species, one articular face is a little deeper than the otlier. 



/ loi 

 \o. 1 < ve 

 (trf 



Diameter centrum Xo. 1 < vertical 



. transverse . 

 Width of neural canal do. . 

 Depth " " . . . 



{longitudinal 

 vertical 

 transverse , 



Measurements. m. 



longitudinal 009 



. .006 



. .005 



. .003 



. .0015 



. .0060 



. .0033 



. .0030 



ding portion of an 



Specimen No. 1 is as large as the correspon 

 Aviphiuma means. 



Scapherpeton favosum, sp. nov. 



The vertebra which I select as typical of this species is more 

 distinct in character from those of the three species above 

 described, than they are from each other. Altliough the centrum 

 presents a strong inferior keel, its border is not horizontal or con- 

 vex, but concave, and the articular cui)s are proportionall}"^ little 

 elongated downwards. The diapoph^-ses have at their bases a 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



relatively small vertical diameter, and the lougitudinal perforation 

 entei's below and before the base and not behind it. The longitu- 

 dinal ridge from the inferior part of the latter is ver}- prominent 

 and horizontal, bridging over the vertical perforation, which enters 

 the superior lateral fossa. It is separated below from the posterior 

 perforation by a short oblique bridge. The neural arch is lost 

 from this specimen. 



There are other vertebrae which display a slightly developed in- 

 ferior keel, and articular cups little produced downwards, but the 

 fossffi are less developed than in the one described. 



Measurements. m. 



antero-posterior 006 



Diameter of centrum { vertical ...... .004 



rans verse 003 



( anter 

 ■^ verti( 

 ' trans 



The typical individual was about as large as the 3Ienopoma. 



HEMITRYPUS, Cope. 



Represented by a vertebra of the general character of those of 

 the genus Scapherpeton^ but which lacks the foramen chordae 

 dorsalis of the posterior half of the centrum, and is not carinate 

 on the inferior surface. The diapophysis is directed backwards 

 just below the posterior zygapophysis, inclosing with it a notch 

 into which the anterior zygapophysis is received. Anterior zyga- 

 pophyses connected by a prolongation of the neural arch. 



I had suspected that this vertebra might be one of those of the 

 cervical region of a species of Scaphe?-peton, but the position of 

 the foramen chordae dorsalis renders this highly improbable. The 

 only position to which it could be assigned in the column of this 

 genus would be that of the axis. Ikit the foramen is present in 

 the posterior half of the atlas and thus probably in the axis in 

 Scapherpeton, as in vertebrae from all other regions of the column, 

 so that such an exception as is presented by the present centrum 

 is not to be looked for. The absence of the carina, and the cylin- 

 dric form of the centrum, add to the belief that the species does 

 not belong to Scapherpeton. 

 Hemitrypus jordanianus, Cope, sp. nov. 



No emargination between tlie anterior zygapophyses ; neural 

 spine directed upwards and backwards. The diapophyses verti- 

 cally compressed, directed downwards, inwards, and backwards, 




1876.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



359 



and not giving origin to a strong ridge on the side of the cen- 

 trum, as is seen in the species of Scapherpeton. Neither is there 

 any fossa on the side of the centrum as in that genus. There is a 

 small longitudinal foramen which enters the inner base of the in- 

 ferior half of the diapophysis. There is a low ridge on each side 

 of the neural arch, which extends backwards and inwards. The 

 anterior articular face is a wide oval somewhat contracted below, 

 and is pierced by a foramen at a point within the superior third 

 of the vertical diameter. It is not so deeply excavated as in the 

 species of Scapherpeton. The posterior articular face is a regular 

 vertical oval, is concave, but not excavated, as is seen in the centra 

 of the genus just mentioned. The inferior face of the centrum is 

 rounded, with some feeble lateral ridges. 



Measurevients. 

 i longitudiual . 



Diameter of centrum ^ vertical 

 ' tra 



•ausverse 

 Total elevation at middle 

 Expanse of posterior zygapophyses . 

 " " " diapophyses 



About the size of the Menopoma allegheniey 



This batrachian is dedicated to Prof D. S. Jordan, of the North- 

 western Christian TJniversit}', author of the Manual of the Ver- 

 tehrata of the Eastern United States. 



M. 



.0070 

 .0050 

 .0040 

 .0090 

 .0070 

 .0095 



ise. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



OUR SIDEREAL SYSTEM, AND THE DIRECTION AND DISTANCE TO ITS 



CENTRE. 



BY JACOB ENNTS. 



I. The Form op our Sidereal System. — Before we can find 

 the centre of an object, we must have a knowledge of its form. 

 The form of our system is determined In' the ring of the galax}'; 

 because it is computed to contain eighteen millions of stars, while 

 all the other stars situated around and within that ring are sup- 

 posed to number only about two millions. The best observers 

 declare that they can look fairly through the galaxy, and see be- 

 yond only the black ground of empty space. Its ring form is fur- 

 ther proved by the fact that the great mass of its stars are of the 

 same small magnitudes, from the 9th to the 12th. If it wei'e 

 merely- the appearance of a. st7^atinn of stars extending outward from 

 our own vicinit}- , it would contain many more stars of large mag- 

 nitudes, and these magnitudes would regularly and gradually de- 

 crease in size from their increasing distances. But no such ap- 

 pearance is presented. Therefore, as Sir John Herschel announces, 

 " it is not a stratum, but an annulus.^^ 



In the general direction of the galax}-, though situated far be- 

 yond, there are ver}'^ manj' easily resolvable nebulae, which are 

 unique among all nebulae, from their very irregular forms and 

 aspects. From their appearances and positions, and resolva- 

 bilit}', they must be members of our own sideral system, and 

 they occupj' the same relative position to the galaxy, as the 

 S3'stems of Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus hold to the ring of the 

 asteroids. 



In some places observers cannot apparently see through the 

 galaxy; stars, or rather nebulae, appear be3-ond one another in- 

 definitely. These appearances are explained b}' the resolvable 

 nebulae just mentioned, which are the extremely distant members 

 of our system, and by the irresolvable nebulae in the same direc- 

 tion, though far beyond, which are independent sidereal systems. 

 The two seem to make a continuity of stars. Mere vision in such 

 cases fails to distinguish these distant sidereal systems from the 

 outlying members of our own sj^stem ; the same as Saturn and 

 Sirius when side b\' side, seen by mere vision, seem to be eriuallj' 

 distant. Irresolvability is at present a decisive test between the 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



outlyei's of our own sj'stem, and other independent sidereal 

 sj'stenis. 



That our sidereal s3-stem has definite bounds, we may believe 

 from the definite boundaries of other distant sidereal S3'stems. 

 Often they are regularly round or elliptical; and even tliose with 

 irregular contours vaay have their stars to revolve in nearl}^ cir- 

 cular orbits ; the same as our solar system must appear to distant 

 observers to be extremely irregular in contour, although its revo- 

 lutions are nearly circular. 



Neither is our opinion of the definite boundary of our system 

 disturbed by the appearance of new stars with every new power 

 added to the telescope. These newly-discovered stars may be its 

 smaller members, and comparatively near, and visible only by 

 high powers. 



Nor is it an argument against tlie ring form of the galaxy, be- 

 cause it is broken b}^ a slight transverse rift in the southern liena- 

 isphere. M}' recollections are distinct that this rift is exceedingly 

 narrow, hardly observable, and smaller by far than the longitu- 

 dinal rifts in both hemispheres. 



Therefore all objections are easily answered, and we have solid 

 grounds to conclude that our sidereal system is round, and in the 

 main, disk-like in form, with the vast majorit}'^ of its stars in or 

 near the plane of the galaxy. The ring form of the chief mass 

 of our S3'stem, is confirmed by the existence of other rings of 

 stars, as the annular nebulte, the ring of the asteroids, and the 

 rings of Saturn, composed, there is good reason to believe, of 

 very little stars, the majority not larger than meteorites. 



II. The Position of the Centre of Gravity.— From the form 

 of our sidereal system the conclusion is clear and irresistible that 

 the centre of gravity of the system must lie in the plane of the 

 galaxy. It is also equally clear that this centre must be situated 

 in the centre of that plane. Because the stars in general are 

 equally numerous, and equally large and bright in all extended 

 regions of that ring. They appear a little brighter towards the 

 southern pole ; but this seems an indication that our own position 

 is a little nearer that side of the galactic ring. 



III. All the Stars of our Sidereal System Revolve with 

 high Velocities around its Centre op Gravity. — It was for- 

 merl}^ supposed that the vast distances between the stars cut off 

 this intergravitating force. Newton, in his Principia, uses this 



24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



language : " The fixed stars, therefore, being at such vast dis- 

 tances from one another, can neither attract each other sensibly, 

 nor be attracted bj' our sun." This opinion was generallj' held 

 among his followers, one of whom has remarked : " So remote 

 are the nearest of the fixed stars, that it ma}' be doubted whether 

 the sun has any sensible influence on them." It is remarkable that 

 the thought occurred to no astronomer to calculate the force of 

 crravity from our sun on the fixed stars, until more than a quarter 

 of a century after the distances of some of these stars had been 

 approximatel}'^ discovei'ed. Then this was first done by myself, 

 and the amount of this force was found to be surprisingly large. 

 To ijresent an impressive and graphic view of that amount, I 

 brought it out in terms of the velocity around our sun required 

 for gaining a centrifugal force so great as to prevent a revolving 

 body from falling in the sun. I employed two methods of de- 

 monstration quite independent of each other, and by both the 

 same results were obtained. As these methods have already- been 

 stated in the " Origin of the Stars," thej'^ need not be repeated 

 here. By them it was proved that our sun acts so powerfully on 

 Alpha Centauri that, if there were no other influence, Alpha Cen- 

 tauri would have to I'evolve around our sun at the rate of 145 

 miles an hour to gain a counterbalancing centrifugal force. That 

 star, judging from its distance, and its amount of light, must be 

 two and a third times greater than our sun. Therefore its power 

 of gravity- alone on our sun is such that, without anj' other influ- 

 ence, our sun must revolve around it at the rate of 222 miles an 

 hour to gain a counterbalancing centrifugal force. Judging from 

 its distance and its light, Sirius is at least sixty times greater 

 than our sun. Therefore our sun would have to revolve around 

 Sirius at the rate of 580 miles an hour to avoid falling into its 

 flames. In all these instances, the gravity of a single star has 

 alone been calculated, and not the combined force of the two. 



These velocities impress strongly on our minds the greatness of 

 the force of gravity between the stars of our sidereal system. 

 How inconceivabW might}' must be the united force between the 

 twenty millions of stars. How strongly must they all be im- 

 pelled toward this common centre of gravity. And how swift 

 must be their velocities around that centre to gain a centrifugal 

 equal to the centripetal force. Now, first, we understand tlie ne- 

 cessity of such high velocities as those of Gl Cygni, and of 




1870.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



Arcturus, and of other stars ; that is, velocities from nearl3- 2000 

 to nearly 3000 miles per minute, velocities about double an^' of 

 tliose seen among the planets of our solar s^ystem. 



It is evident that the stars of the galaxj' must all move in the 

 same direction around in the plane of the galactic ring, otherwise 

 they wound &y off, and soon there would remain no ring. 



It is also evident that such rings of stars revolving with high 

 velocities, both in our own and in other sidereal systems — annular 

 nebuhe — coincide perfectl}' with the nebular theor}^ which teaches 

 the absolute necessity of ring formations abandoned hy centrifu- 

 gal force in high velocities of revolution. 



lY. The Direction from our own Position to the Galactic 

 Centre or to the Centre of Gravity of our Sidereal System. 

 — Our own position is certainl}' on the north side of the galactic 

 plane; that is, on the same side with Ursa Major, and not on the 

 side on which Orion appears. The median line of the galaxy, or its 

 plane, does not coincide with a parallel great circle. Between the 

 two, as projected on the heavens, there is a distance of about 2°, 

 the precise distance being not yet determined within half a degree, 

 more or less. This appears as follows: The median line of the 

 galaxy is distant about 32° from the north pole; but on the op- 

 posite side of the heavens it is distant from the south pole only 

 about 2T°. Other measurements in other regions, not polar, cor- 

 respond. This difference of five degrees must be equally divided, 

 and there remains about 2|^° as the distance in arc between the 

 median line of the galaxy and a parallel great circle. Our own 

 position therefore is situated, as measured b}' our great circle, 

 about 2i° away from the galactic plane, and on its north side. 

 We are further confirmed in this conclusion because it explains 

 the fact that more stars are seen in the southern galactic hemis- 

 phere than in the northern. Many of these southern stars are really 

 on the north side of the galactic plane, but being ourselves so 

 much further north, the}' are projected on the southern galactic 

 hemisphere. At first view this seems unlikel}', but forthcoming- 

 proofs are convincing. 



Now, being on the north side of the galactic plane, and if we 

 were e(pially distant all around from the galactic ring, then the 

 conclusion would be certain that the direction of the centre of 

 the galactic plane, or the centre of gravity of our system, would 

 he precisely toward the south galactic pole, that is, at about 119° 




361 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



iV, P, Z>, and a little east of the equinoctial colure. In such case 



there could be no other decision. But because the galactic ring 



appears a little brighter in the southern regions, it seems probable 



that we are situated a little nearer towards the southern side of 



that ring; consequently the galactic centre must be projected on 



the heavens a little to the north — the geographic north — of the 



south galactic pole, say in the tail of the constellation Cetus. This 



nortliern projection of the galactic centre may 



be illustrated as follows : Let N be a point iu N 



the geographic northern side of tlie galaxy, S 



the opposite point iu the southern side, A the B 



south galactic pole, and the dot at c the centre c _...■■■■-' 



of the galactic plane or centre of our system. D • ' A 



Then our position at D being a little nearer the 



southern side of the ring at /S, the centre c 



would be projected on the heavens at i>, that is, S 



geographically north from the south galactic 



pole A. In the figure there is an exaggeration in tlie position of 



B to render the principle plain. 



Therefore we may affirm, without pretending to absolute preci- 

 sion, that the direction of the centre of our sidereal system, and 

 consequently its centre of gravity, must lie a little east of the 

 equinoctial colure, and a few degrees north geographically of the 

 south galactic pole ; tliat is, in the tail of the constellation Cetus. 

 It remains now to demonstrate — 



Y. The Distance from our own Position to the Galactic 



Centre, or Centre of Gravity of our Sideral System To 



find this we have the following data: First, that the median line, 

 or plane of the galax}-, is distant from a parallel great circle 2^° j 

 second, tliat the distance of the galactic ring from our own posi- 

 tion is such as to require 2000 years for its light to reach us. 

 This latter is Sir John Herschel's estimate of its nearest stars of 

 the Dth magnitude. Struve computes that light requires 3400 

 years to reach us from the galactic stars of the 12th magnitude. 

 In this demonstration the 9tli magnitude galactic stars, with the 

 distance for light travel of 2000 years, will l)e taken. In the 

 fi<'-ure 8 represents the i)Osition of our sun or our own position. 

 The dotted circles aie the distances of the stars of the several 

 numbered magnitudes. A B \s the plane of the galaxy, and C its 

 centre. D E is the plane of a parallel great circle. S C is the 




18T6.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



365 



distance from ourselves to tlie 

 galactic centre, or the centre of 

 our sidereal system. S i^ is a 

 line perpendicular to the galac- 

 tic plane. Our position S is made 

 a little nearer to the geographi- 

 cal southern side of the galaxy 

 at J5, for the i-eason already 

 stated. D A is the arc, and /) 

 S A the angle between the ga- 

 lactic plaue and a parallel great 

 circle, at present assumed at 2|^. 

 S A F = D S A. Light re- 

 quires 2000 3'ears to travel from 

 A to S, or from ^ to i^ nearly. 

 Here we have a right-angled tri- 

 angle with three known ele- 

 ments, namely, A F =: 2000 ; 

 S A F=2^°] S F A = 90°. 

 From these elements it follows 

 from the most simple of all trig- 

 onometrical processes that S F 

 equals 87. Therefore it re- 

 quires light 87 years to pass 

 between ourselves and the plane 

 of the galax}', or about the same 

 to reach the galactic centre at 

 G. But according to the esti- 

 mates of asti'onomers, light re- 

 quires 85 years to reach us from 

 the stars of the 5th magnitude; 

 therefore the centre of our side- 

 real system is distant from our 

 own position about as far as the 

 stars of the 5th magnitude. 



But the amount of the arc D 

 A or the angle S A F is not 3'et 

 precisel}' determined. If it be 

 only 2°, then the distance from 

 the plane of the galaxy is such 




366 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



that light from there requires 70 years to reach us, and it must lie 

 beyond the stars of the 4th magnitude, as it is drawn in the ac- 

 companying figure. If the angle S A F equals 1^°, then the light 

 from the region of the galactic plane requires 52 years to reach 

 us, and that plane must lie he^'ond the stars of the 3d magnitude. 

 And so on, after the following table, where the third column ex- 

 presses the number of years required for light to reach us from 

 the stars of the several magnitudes, according to Struve, and also 

 from the galactic plane, when the first column expresses the dif- 

 ferent values of the arc I) A or the angle S A F. 



Angle S A F. Star magnitudes. Distances in years. 



1 .... 15 



h° 17 



2 .... 28 



1 o 35 



3 .... 43 

 l|o 52 



4 ... . . 61 



2 o 70 



5 .... 85 

 2P 87 



3 o 10-4 



6 .... 120 

 40. . 140 



We have now discovered approximate!}' both the direction and 

 the DISTANCE to the centre of our sidereal S3'stem. I need not at 

 this early day be precise in my statements of either of these ele- 

 ments : these will require the careful observations and measure- 

 ments of many years. When Copernicus had announced the centi'e 

 of our solar system, his discovery was not A'itiated nor rendered 

 the less valuable because he made such an enormous error about 

 the distance of that centre. Even yet, after the studies of 10 

 generations, that is, of 833 years, astronomers are still endeavoring 

 to find moi'e nearly the distance to the centre of our solar system. 

 These round numliers just named measure the long fiight of time 

 which has intervened between the discoveries of these two centres, 

 the centre of our solar and the centre of our sidereal S3'stem. In 

 attaining precision in the distance to the centre of our sidereal 

 system, the first element to be determined is the arc D A, or the 

 angle S A F. Its nearest value seems to me at present to be 2'^, 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3&1 



and the figure is drawn on that supposition, locating the sidereal 

 centre between the stars of the 4th and 5th magnitudes. 



In addition to the data contained in the five sections already 

 given, our present determination of the direction and distance is 

 confirmed by the observed movements of the stars. Hitherto, the 

 proper motions of the stars, amounting to nearly 2000, have pre- 

 sented the most wild and disorderly confusion. Nothing can be 

 more hopeless and forbidding than an attempt to find our sidereal 

 centre from the study of these motions. But our present deter- 

 mination of that centre shows the causes of this apparent confu- 

 sion. It is because "we are situated on one side of our system, 

 far outwardl}'^ and away from the centre, with some stars interior 

 and other exterior to us ; precisely the same reason wli}' the mo- 

 tions of the planets seemed so tangled before the discovery of 

 the centre of our solar s^'stem. I will here point out the opera- 

 tions of this cause in detail, along with other causes of this 

 apparent disorder. 



1. In our figure the two stars within the dotted circles, marked 

 with arrows at 2 and 7, move in the direction of the arrows. On 

 the face of the heavens, or on a celestial glol)e, the}'' seem to move 

 around in contrary' directions, the same as they seem to move in 

 our figure in contrary directions around our position at S. But 

 in reality the}' both move in the same direction around our side- 

 real centre at C. 



2. The stars at 7 and 8, marked with arrows, seem, from our 

 position at S, to move in contrar}- directions, but in truth they 

 both move in the same direction around the sidereal centre at G. 



3. Our sun's motion must give apparent motions to man}' stars, 

 and some of these may be contrary to their real motions, the same 

 as our earth gives retrograde motions to the planets. To separate 

 these apparent from their real motions will be a task of many 

 years, even after we learn the true direction of the sun's motion. 



4. As our sun is on the north side of the galactic plane, and 

 nearly equidistant from the galactic ring all around, it follows that 

 the plane of his orbit is nearly, perhaps quite, at right angles to 

 the galactic plane. It is evident also that thousands of other 

 stars move in planes either at rii^ht angles, or higlily inclined, to 

 the galactic plane. Hitherto all this has been a source of per- 

 plexity, but now we may begin to lay down the lines of their nodes 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



on the galactic plane, and make real progress in sidereal astro- 

 nomy, evolving beautiful order out of this apparent confusion. 



5. In a system like our solar system, with a large central orb, 

 and all the stars nearly in the same plane, it is generally conceded 

 that the revolutions of these stars must be around in the same 

 direction ; contrary motions being incompatible with stability. 

 But tliis cannot be affirmed of our sidereal sj^stem, which has no 

 large central and controlling orb, where the stars are very far 

 apart, and where their orbits are highly inclined in opposite di- 

 rections, nearl}' or quite at right angles to the galactic plane, and 

 so have come to move in opposite directions around the sidereal 

 centre. This has occurred to thousands of stars in our sidereal 

 S3"stem. It has occurred also in other far distant sidereal systems, 

 for they are globular in shape. If only a few a[)peared round we 

 might suppose them discoid, with the planes of their disks per- 

 pendicular to their lines of sight. But such large numbers of round 

 systems argue globularity of form. 



6. My discovery of the intergravitation among the members of 

 our sidereal system, as stated in Section III. of this paper, aids to 

 prove that collisions must be impossible, or very rare between 

 the members of our system, even when tliey move in opposite 

 directions. When two stars are meeting from opposite directions, 

 they are under the influence through gravity of all the neighbor- 

 ing stars, drawing them from the line toward each other's centres 

 of gravity, and therefore the chances are infinite against their 

 moving towards each other's centres of gravity- They must ap- 

 proach each other, not directly, but obliquely ; they may pass so 

 near to each other as to remain forever nnder the power of their 

 mutual gravitation, revolving around their common centre of 

 gravity, and becoming a double star. Hence, the wonderful spec- 

 tacle in the heavens of ten thousand double and multiple stars, 

 with many more still to be discovered. A pair of stars may 

 attract a third, and a fourth, and indeed a larger group like the 

 Pleiades and Coma Bcrenicis, and the clusters in Hercules. A 

 considerable cluster by their united gravit}' might draw to them- 

 selves all or nearly all the neighboring stars, leaving nearly vacant 

 spaces around the clusters. Whenever Sir William Herschel, in 

 his sweeps of the heavens, came upon one of these vacant spaces 

 poorly furnished with stars, he was sure to look out for a cluster, 

 or nebulous looking mass, consisting of the stars collected to- 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



gether from the nearly vacant spaces. We know that binary- 

 systems of stars may have proper motions, and so may larger 

 groups. 



T. In constellations like Ursa Major, and Cassiopeia, and others, 

 the motions of their individual stars around the centre of gravity 

 of the constellation, may obscure or hide their motions around the 

 centre of our sidereal system. The revolutions of the satellites of 

 Jupiter and Saturn and Uranus have more rapid velocities around 

 their primaries than the velocities of those planets around the 

 sun. A like state of things, though not so extreme, may exist in 

 a constellation. According to Struve and others, the distance 

 of second magnitude stars is such as to require their light 28 

 years to reach us. If in a triangle we take this number for each 

 of the two sides, and for the included angle the divergence between 

 two adjacent stars in Ursa Major, we are surprised on computing 

 the third side of our triangle, to find how near those stars must 

 be together. Therefore knowing the gravitation of our sun on our 

 neighboring stars, Ave must conclude that in a cluster like Ursa 

 Major, the revolutions around its centre ma}' greatly modify and 

 perhaps reverse for a time, the proper motions of those stars 

 around the centre of our system. 



8. As our sun's motion may give apparent retrograde motions 

 to some of the stars, it is of the first importance in sidereal asti'O- 

 nom}' to learn the point to which our sun is tending. In our 

 search for this we may now confine our endeavors to a narrow 

 zone in the heavens. The sun's motion must be nearly at right 

 angles to the line drawn to thecentreof our system. This motion 

 therefore must be toward some point in the zone of the galaxy. 

 The method hitherto employed to ascertain the direction of our 

 sun's motion, is very deceptive. As we travel tiirough a wood 

 the trees appear to grow wider apart in front of us, and closer 

 together behind us. The same principle has been applied to the 

 stars, comparing them with the trees. But how could such ap- 

 pearances, wider and closer, occur among the trees, if those trees 

 were all in motion as rapidly as ourselves ? The other stars are 

 moving like our sun. Therefore this tree method of learning our 

 sun's motion, is liable to grave objections. 



9. The zone of the galaxy varies in breadth on the face of the 

 heavens, but on an average it is from eight to ten degrees wide. If 

 we be 2^° from its median line or plane, then this wide band 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [ISTO. 



Stretches not only over our own position, but over all the stars of 

 the first and second magnitudes in the direction avray from the 

 galactic plane, and also on the other side of that plane far be3'ond 

 the stars visible to the naked eye. Where the zone of the galaxy is 

 8° wide, then, calculating from its distance, light requires 280 

 3'ears to cross that zone. And where it is 10° wide, light requires 

 350 3'ears to cross it. When we look at right angles awa^' from 

 the plane of the galaxy to the distant stars of the sixth magnitude, 

 and also in the opposite direction on the otlier side of the galaxy 

 to the distant sixth magnitude stars, and then look up at tiie 

 galaxy itself, we see apparently a narrow milky band, but it is 

 broader than the entire distance between the opposite stars of the 

 sixth magnitude. 



The other dimension of the galaxj^ at right angles to this, that 

 is, the distance from its nearer to its further or outer surface, is 

 probably four or five times greater. Its nearer stars, those of the 

 ninth magnitude, require 2000 3'ears for their light to reach us, 

 but its more distant, those of the twelfth magnitude, require 3400 

 3'ears. Therefore the difl:ereuce of 1400 years is i-equired for the 

 passage of light from its more distant to its nearer stars. Con- 

 sidering the wide space existing within these dimensions, we can- 

 not say that the galactic stars are nearer together than our sun 

 and its neighboring stars. Moreover the specific gravity of the 

 four outer planets of our solar S3'stem is man3'^ times less than 

 that of the four inner planets. Saturn, for instance, is nine times 

 lighter than Mercury. In like manner the galactic, or the outer 

 stars of our sidereal S3'stem, ma3'^ be many times lighter than our 

 sun and his neighboring inner stars. From both these causes, 

 distance apart and lightness, gravitation between the galactic 

 stars may be less than that between our sun and his neigliboring 

 stars. This aids to understand why, from their apparent nearness 

 together, the galactic stars are not brought b3' gravity in contact, 

 or in very closely revolving S3'stem3, like binar3'^ stars. 



10. By assuming with Ilerschel that the nearest part of the 

 galax3^ requires 2000 years for its light to reach us, we may then 

 calculate its circumference, or the orbits of its stars, and the time 

 required for those stars to make one revolution in their orldts. 

 A star moving at tlie rate of 3000 miles per minute, about like that 

 of Arcturus, must require 50,000,000 3'ears for a single revolution 

 around the sidereal centre. A star revolving at the rate of 2000 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 3H 



miles per minute, about like that of 6 Cygni, requires 15,000,000 

 years. And a star moving at the rate of 1000 miles per minute, 

 about like tliat of our earth around the sun, requires 150,000,000 

 5'ears for one revolution around the sidereal centre I 



Assuming the very probable estimate of 2° between the galactic 

 plane, or median line, and a parallel great circle, then 70 years are 

 required for the passage of light from our sidereal centre to our- 

 selves, and the following table gives the times for a single revolu- 

 tion of our sun, around that centre, at the three different veloci- 

 ties above recorded. 



3000 miles per minute, 1,760,000 years for one revolution. 

 2000 " " " 3,640.000 " " " " 



1000 " " " 5,280,000 " " " " 



These almost endless periods teach some practical lessons. 

 One is that the direction of our sun's motion for two or three 

 centuries must be sensibly toward the same point in the heavens, 

 or very nearly. If a star in the galaxj^ performs a revolution in 

 50,000,000 years, that is, with the velocity of 3000 miles per 

 minute, then about 40 years are necessary for it to move through 

 one second of arc, the smallest quantity measurable in astronomy. 

 That is, if the position of a galactic star be taken and recorded 

 with the most refined accuracy, then it will not be until the next 

 generation of astronomers that the movement of the star can be 

 recognized. If the velocity of the star be 2000 or 1000 miles per 

 tainute, then the time required to move through one second of 

 arc must be in one case GO and in the other case 120 years ! No 

 w'onder that we cannot tell in which direction the Milky Way 

 revolves. From the well-established intergi-avitation of the stars, 

 we are sure that it must wheel around in its mighty circle, but 

 we know not which way the wheel turns. This want of apparent 

 motion in the galactic stars is proof positive of their vast 

 distance. It confirms the same conclusion of astronomers 

 founded on the smallness of this magnitude. We now see in a 

 strong and clear light the importance of having portions of the 

 galaxy mapped out, and their positions determined with the 

 closest exactness, so that coming generations of astronomers may 

 learn which way around the great Milky Way revolves. 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



The following reports were read and referred to the Publication 

 Committee : — 



REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT. 



Several events in the history of the Academ}^ have occurred 

 during the year just closed which are worth}- of notice or record. 



On the 4th of January-, 1876, the Society met in its hall at the 

 northwest corner of Broad and Sansom Streets for the last time. 

 It had been domiciled there since February 18, 1840, a period of 

 ver}^ nearly thirty-six years. It held its first meeting in the north 

 wing of tlie new edifice on Tuesday evening, January 11th. Pos- 

 session of the old building was transferred to the purchaser the 

 next day. 



At the close of the sixty-fifth year since its foundation the 

 Society may be justly congratulated on the progress it has made, 

 in the extension of its museum and library, on the work recorded 

 in its publications, and on the value of the real estate which it 

 has acquired through the generosity of very many friends. It 

 possesses a commodious fire-proof building (which is the north 

 wing of the proposed structure), and a plot of ground upon which 

 it can be extended. The Academy is free from debt, and its set- 

 tled policj' is to incur no pecuniar}^ obligation before means to 

 cancel it have been provided. 



It seems not unreasonable to conjecture that the Society may 

 be found occupying this same locality at the close of the second 

 century of the nation, still endeavoring, under the benevolent 

 precept non sibi sed omnibus, to acquire knowledge of the sensible 

 creation and to diffuse it by all means at its command. 



The propriety of representing the Academy through an exhibit 

 of its publications, etc., in the International Exhibition, was sug- 

 gested February 15th, and the committee then appointed — Dr. 

 John L. LeConte and Messrs. Charles E. Smith and Wm. S. 

 Vaux — reported substantially, March 7th, that it was inexpedient, 

 and was discharged from farther consideration of the subject. 



The formal transfer of the building and site upon which it 

 stands by the trustees of the building fund, in accordance with 

 their suggestion, was postponed for tiie time, by a resolution 

 adopted March 14th. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



Under authority of a resolution of Ma}^ 9tli, an invitation to 

 visit the museum and libniry as frequently as might be agreeable 

 to them during their sojourn in the cit^' was given to the commis- 

 sioners accredited to the International Exhibition as well as to 

 members and delegates of societies and associations which met in 

 Philadelphia in the course of the year. 



On specified conditions it was agreed, November, 1875, that the 

 American Entomological Society should be received into the 

 Academy, and on the IGth of May the report that the Entomo- 

 logical Section of the Academy had been organized, was made, in 

 pursuance of a provision of the by-laws. 



May 30th an application of members of the Society to form the 

 Botanical Section of the Academy was approved, and the report 

 that its organization had been completed was made June 20th. 



The association of members occupied in a special branch of 

 slud}' into sections, besides being a source of gratification to them, 

 is useful to the Academy. The collections placed in charge of the 

 sections receive their particular care, and the Curators of the 

 Academy are so far relieved from the necessity of giving special 

 attention to their preservation and arrangement. 



At present the Academy includes four sections, namely : — 



The Biological and Microscopical Section.' 



The Conchological Section.-' 



The Entomological Section.^ 



The Botanical Section,* 



All members and correspondents of the Academy have the 

 privilege of being present at the stated meetings of the sections. 



August 31, 187o, the Council was requested to examine the by- 

 laws and report such changes as ma}' be necessary for the better 

 government of the Academy. The Council deliberated long on 

 the subject and recommended several important modifications. 

 The series of amendments proposed by the Council were considered 

 and debated at several meetings of the Academ}'^, altered in many 

 particulars, and finally adopted May 30th of the present year. 



In conformity to one of these laws, on the IGth of ^lay, twelve 



' Stated meeting on the first ^Monday evening of every month. 

 2 Stated meeting on the first Thursday evening of every mouth. 

 ' Stated meeting, second Thursday evening of every month. 

 * Stated meeting, second Monday evening of every mouth. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [ISTB. 



councillors were elected, four for three years, four for two 3'ears, 

 and four for one 3'ear. 



Since the adoption of the new laws sufficient time has not 3'et 

 elapsed to test satisfactorily their practical working. Some of 

 the elder members of the Society doubt whether the changes made 

 will prove to be better in practice than the displaced legal require- 

 ments. Perfection in bj'-laws of a societ}^ cannot be reasonably 

 expected. The ordinary progress of events and changed condi- 

 tions renders a modification of them from time to time desirable; 

 and there is always ground for honest diff"erence of opinion. Even 

 the Constitution, the organic law of the United States, formed by 

 the wisest and most judicious minds in the country, has been 

 found, during the experience of a centur}', to require amend- 

 ments. 



In reference to one important feature of the new bj'-laws, I 

 venture to make a few comments which I hope ma}^ not be con- 

 sidered out of place. 



To the extent of its means the Society endeavors to diffuse 

 information of what is known within the field of its labors, to 

 increase the popular taste for natural science, and to assist those 

 eno-ao-ed in original investigations by granting to them the free 

 use of its library and museum, and by publishing the results of 

 their labors, in its Journal and Proceedings. 



The Academy desires to extend the usefulness of its library and 

 museum in this direction, and to project paths among the unknown 

 things of the earth which men may pursue and retrace, always 

 bringing back a revelation of some fact not previously known. It 

 is believed that there are many men eminently qualified in all 

 respects to engage in original research, whose scientific work is 

 greatly restricted because almost all their time is necessarily spent 

 in gaining a livelihood, who, like the Davys, Faradays, Iluxleys, 

 and Tyndalls of the Royal Institution, would gladly accept a 

 moderate support of assured continuance, and in return for it 

 devote all their energies to scientific investigations and teaching. 



In the hope of increasing the number of original investigators 

 by providing places for men of this character, and of securing 

 systematic elementary and popular instruction by courses of lec- 

 tures and otherwise, the Academy has modified its by-laws in such 

 manner as to authorize the ai)pointment of professors and assis- 

 tant professors. 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



The plan is commendable, and its realization should be encour- 

 aged by the friends of scientific progress ; but to realize it com- 

 pletely in all its details requires in the aggregate a ver}- large 

 sum of monej'. 



In the present condition of the Academy's resources, the objec- 

 tion to this scheme is that to appoint professors before providing 

 a laboratory' in which the}' ma}' pursue their investigations ; or a 

 lecture-room for the accommodation of those who would listen to 

 their teachings ; or means for their permanent and entire support, 

 would be merel}' to bestow complimentary titles, without advanc- 

 ing the interests of original research in anj- manner or degree- 

 Gentlemen elected to professorships without income would not 

 find in the title of professor alone the means of living. Such title 

 would not relieve them from the necessity of giving their time and 

 labor to some exacting vocation in exchange for daily bread, nor 

 afford them more leisure than the}' ma}' yjossess without it. Those 

 devoted to original investigation who are pecuniarily independent 

 of secular employment do not need the assistance which hoped-for 

 endowments are designed to give. As the library and museum 

 are accessible to all for the purpose of study, they are in condition 

 to pursue their scientific labors without acquiring the title of pro- 

 fessor from the Academy. 



The by-laws indicate that each professor will have exclusive 

 control of such collections as maybe assigned to his care, and be 

 responsible for their arrangement, increase, and preservation. For 

 partial or entire neglect of this very important duty, there seems 

 to be no remedy of easy administration as long as it is confided 

 to any one who has no right to compensation for his time and 

 labor from the Academy. Where pecuniary consideration for 

 services to be rendered is in any manner contingent upon their 

 performance, there is an obvious and efficacious remedy for neglect. 



If such objections have any force, they suggest that the interests 

 of the Academy, and of science, will be best served by postponing 

 the election of professors until after substantial endowments for 

 their sujjport have been secured. Until these are acquired the 

 collections may be still properly confided, as they always have 

 been, to the custody of the four curators, under whose care they 

 have attained their present condition and magnitude, and in tiie 

 mean time the Academy may continue its etlbrts to develop and 

 make useful its resources. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



The Emperor of Brazil, who is distinguished as much l3_y his 

 varied learning as b}^ his high political position, was present at 

 the stated meeting of the Societ\', held June 27. 



On the evening of July 7, the gentlemen officially connected 

 with the International Exhibition, and man}-^ others, were received 

 and entertained in the Academy-, the entire expense being borne 

 by several generous members of the Society. 



In August, Professor Huxley was invited, in anticipation of his 

 coming to Philadelphia, to be present at the meetings of the So- 

 ciety, but he regretted his inability to accept the invitation. He 

 arrived in the city about two o'clock P.M. of Thursda}-, Sept. 14, 

 and spent two or three hours of the afternoon in the museum. 

 The next afternoon he departed for New York. 



At the instance of the Centennial Commission, a committee 

 was appointed Oct. 10, "to investigate and report upon the intro- 

 duction of new species of insects and plants through the medium 

 of foreign exhibits at the Centennial Exhibition." 



The report in relation to the introduction of insects, by Drs. 

 J. L. Le Conte, Geo. H. Horn, and Joseph Leid}', was made 

 Nov. 14. The labors of the botanists of the committee are neces- 

 sarily deferred until the ensuing spring; the results of their 

 ol)servations cannot be expected until some time next year. 



The stated meetings of tlie Society in the new localit}-, contrar}' 

 to the anticipation of some of the members, have been more 

 numerously attended than those in the old hall, and have been no 

 less interesting. 



In behalf of the council I have to report that its stated meet- 

 ings have been regularly held, and tlie matters submitted to it 

 have been carefully considered. 



Respectfully, etc., 



W. S. W. RUSCHENBERGER. 



REPORT OF RECORDING SECRETARY. 



During the twelve months ending Nov. 30, 1876, ninety mem- 

 bers and nineteen correspondents have been elected. 



Announcement was made of the death of two members — J. S. 

 Phillips and Geo. Washington Smith. 



Twenty-seven papers have been presented for publication, as 

 follows: Wm. H. Dall, three; Wm. M. Gabb, three; Edw. D. 




I8T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3'77 



Cope, two ; Geo. A. Koenig, two ; Mariano Barcena, two ; and 

 J. A. Allen, H. C. Chai)man, Cluis. A. White, D. S. Jordan and 

 H. E. Copelaud, Geo. Ha_y, Harrison Allen, Isaac Lea, Wm. G. 

 Mazj'ck, Herman Strecker, Chas. Pickering, Wm. G. Binney, J 

 A. Ogden, Jos. Leidy, T. A. Conrad, and Theo. Gill each one. 

 Dr. Leidy's paper and one of those presented by Mr. Gabb were 

 accepted for the Journal ; the others wex'e ordered to be published 

 in the Proceedings. 



The verbal communications have been much more numerous 

 than heretofore, scarcely a meeting having been held at which 

 some subject of scientific interest was not discussed. These com- 

 munications have been for the most part reported bj^ their authors 

 for publication in the Proceedings. 



Reports of the meetings continue to be published in two of the 

 evening papers with, it is believed, the good effect alluded to in 

 my last report. 



During tlie year the ninetj^-five concluding pages of the Pro- 

 ceedings for 18T5, and two hundred pages for 1876, with ten litho- 

 graphic plates, one of them colored, have been issued. No portion 

 of the Journal has been published, but artists are employed on 

 plates illustrating papers by Dr. Leidj' and Mr. Gabb, and it is 

 hoped that the next part may be completed during the coming 

 year. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J, Xolan, 

 Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The Librarian respectfully reports that the additions to the 

 library, during the twelve months ending November 30, 1876, 

 amount to 2491. This is in excess of the increase for any other 

 year of wliich we have a record, except that for 1850, when the 

 late Dr. Thos. B. Wilson, and his brother Edw. Wilson, contri- 

 buted a larger number of books than at any previous or subse- 

 quent period. 



Of the additions during the past year 683 were volumes, 1784 

 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, and 24 maps, photographs^ 

 etc.; 18S9 were octavos, 508 quartos, 44 folios,, and 26 duo- 

 decimos. 

 25 




378 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1876. 



The}^ were derived from the following sources; 



Societies 1034 



Editors 400 



I. V. Williamson Fund ... 350 



Bequeathed by John S. Phillips 221 



Authors 143 



Wilson Fund 71 



Brazilian Centennial Commis- 

 sion 35 



Department of the Interior . . 19 



Dr. Jos. Leidy 15 



Isaac Lea 12 



Geological Survey of Canada . 12 



<5eological Survey of Spain . 12 



Publishers 9 



Smithsonian Institution ... 9 



M. Lavoiune 9 



Adolph Sutro ...... 8 



Geological Survey of India. . 7 



Geological Survey of Sweden . 7 



Geological Survey of Penna. . 7 



Alfonso Herrera 7 i 



J. A. Ryder 5 



Engineer Department, U. S. A. 5 



Dr. F. V. Hayden 5 



New South Wales Centennial 



Commissioner 5 



Treasury Department ... 4 



Thos. Meehan 4 



C. W. Williamson .... 4 



J. Laidlaw 4 



Wisconsin Centennial Commis- 

 sion 4 



Dr. F. A. Hassler 3 



Minister of Public Works, 



France 3 



J. E. Cook • . . 3 



G. W. Tryon, Jr 3 



Michigan Centennial Commis- 

 sion - 3 



J. H. Redfield 



War Department 



Louis Godey 



East Indian Government . . 



James Hall 



Wm. S. Vaux 



Angus Mackay 



H. H. Higgins 



Joshua Linda hi 



Dr. James Hector 



West Virginia Centennial Com- 

 mission 



Mexican Commission . . . . 

 Chinese Commission . . . . 

 Japanese Commission . . . 

 Austrian Commission . . . 

 Ward B. Haseltine . . . . 



T. R. Peale 



J. S. Newberry 



Edw. Stabler 



Mr. Davies 



Lorin Davenport 



Chas. Dury 



Chas. S. Rand 



D. S. Sheldon 



Mrs. E. P. Gurney . . . . 



G. M. Levette 



K. Kuroda 



Saml. Davenport 



Isaac Burk 



Rev. Dr. Honeyman . . . . 

 W. C. Stevenson . . . . , 



T. A. Conrad 



J. B. King 



Alex. Agassiz 



i Geological Survey of Illinois 



Navy Department .... 



Surgeon General, U. S. A. . 



1 Department of Agriculture . 



The}' were divided as follows ;- 



-Journals 1745 



Geology 177 



General Natural History . . 159 



Conchology 129 j 



Botany 55 : 



Entomology 28 , 



Anatomy and Physiology . . 2G j 



Ornithology 24 



Physical Sciences 24 



Anthropology 17 



Helminthology IG 



Useful Arts 15 



Voyages and Travels .... 10 



Chemistry 

 Ichthyology . 

 Herpetology . 

 Mineralogy . 

 Medicine . . 

 Encyclopfedias 

 Mammalogy . 

 Bibliography 

 Geography 

 Education 

 Agriculture . 

 Antiquities . 



10 

 9 

 8 

 7 

 7 

 6 

 5 

 5 

 4 

 3 

 1 

 1 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



One hundred and sevent3'-one volumes have been liound during 

 the year, and 55 volumes are now in the hands of the binder. These 

 include all the unbound books which have been credited to the 

 Wilson and I. Y. Williamson Funds, together with such journals 

 received in exchange for the Acadera3''s publications as are in 

 constant use and likely to be damaged if left unbound. The 

 volumes of other exchanges have been tied up, to remain in this 

 condition on the shelves until the Academ}^ is able to bear the 

 expense of binding. 



The earlj' months of the year were occupied in transferring the 

 library from the old building, and roughly placing the books in 

 the new cases prepared for them. With the assistance of Mr. 

 Russell Hill and Mr. J. A. Rj^der, this work was accomplished in 

 less time than it was supposed it would be necessary to devote to 

 it, and the more careful classification and arrangement of the 

 various sections have since proceeded as rapidlj' as circumstances 

 would permit. The catalogues which were completed before the 

 removal, have been revised so as to accommodate them to the 

 new disposition of the books, and the current additions to the 

 librar}' have been added to the card catalogue. Special attention 

 has been given to the arrangement of tlie journals and periodi- 

 cals. The greater portion of this department has been carefully 

 examined, all deficiencies have been noted, and fift}' letters api)ly- 

 ing for parts required to complete sets have been written. The 

 answers to these applications have been such as to warrant the 

 belief that a much larger return will be secured by written 

 requests to societies and editors than could be hoped for in 

 answer to printed circulars, no matter how urgentl}' they ma}- be 

 worded. 



Various plans for the re-arrangement of the library in the 

 present building have been suggested and considered, but the 

 simplicity of the system of consecutive numbering of the volumes, 

 adopted before removal, and the readiness with which, bj^ means 

 of it, an}' given book may be found, has caused the Library Com- 

 mittee to authorize its continuance. It will, howcA'^er, be supple- 

 mented by a shelf or alcove catalogue of the recent additions to 

 each department until they accumulate sufficiently to permit of 

 their being numbered. 



An examination oC the library in April showed that it con- 

 tained at that time 22,440 bound and 621 unbound volumes, and 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



1255 unbound pamphlets, which would probably form 125 volumes, 

 making 23,186 volumes in all, exclusive of duplicates and the 

 libraries of sections. If these be added the total will reach 25,495 

 volumes.* 



Portraits in oil of Jacob Gilliams, M.D., and John Speakman, 

 two of the founders of the Academj', were presented bj' Dr. Jas. 

 S. Gilliams and Thos. Say Speakman respectively. 



It will be seen by reference to the annual list of additions to 

 the library how deeply the Academy is indebted to Mr. Isaiah Y. 

 Williamson for his munificent gift. Many of the most valuable 

 publications of the last two or three j'ears have been obtained by 

 means of this fund, and the library is consequently better sup- 

 plied with the recent literature of natural history than it has been 

 since the death of Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. Much, however, remains 

 to be added before the library in many of its sections can be con- 

 sidered as approaching a state of completeness, and it is earnestly 

 desired that specialists will furnish the titles of such works as 

 may be lacking in their departments. A catalogue of current sci- 

 entific books already begun for the use of the Library Committee 

 will be continued and kept as complete as possible. It is hoped 

 that the means at the disposal of the committee are now sufficient 

 to enable it to authorize the ordering of all approved books, while 

 the titles of those works which it is not thought desirable to pur- 

 chase immediately, will yet be kept for reference in the future. 

 All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, Libi^arian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS FOR 1876. 



The removal of the Museum of the Academy from the former 

 building to the one now occupied, was completed before the close 

 of the last year ; the removal of the library immediately followed, 

 and was completed in the first week of January of the present 

 year. The first meeting of the Academy was held in the new 

 building on the 11th of Januarj'. 



T'hrough the able superintendence and incessant labor of ray 

 colleagues, Messrs. Tr^on and Parker, aided by Dr. James A. 

 Ogden, Miss Sarah P. Monks, John A. Ryder, llussel Hill, and 

 others, the different collections were so far arranged in their 



' The increase of the year makes the aggregate of the library November 

 30, 187C, about 36,356 volumes. 




18*76.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPIIIA. 381 



respective places that tlie Museum "was opened for exhibition to 

 the public on the first of Ma}'. From that time to the present it 

 has been open to visitors daily except on Saturday and Sunday. 

 Since then, also, the regular and systematic arrangement of the 

 collections of the Museum has continued in the usual manner. 



Those departments of the Museum under the charge of special 

 sections of the Academy have been equally well attended to in 

 the arrangement of their approi)riate collections. On the condi- 

 tion of these and the additions thereto during the year, I refer to 

 the reports of the Conservators of the Sections. 



In July, I regret to say, Mr. Trj'on resigned his position as 

 Curator. Dr. H. C. Chapman was appointed to fill the vacancy. 

 Since that time the Museum has been mainly under the super- 

 intendence of Mr. Parker, whose services have proved so valuable 

 that I hope the Academ}- may secure their continuance. 



Mr. John A. Ryder has arranged the mammalian collection, and 

 aflSxed labels when required. The crania of mammals are par- 

 tially arranged and labelled. 



The collection of human crania has been rearranged. (Mr. 

 Parker reports the following skulls as missing: Nos. 210, 215, 

 223, 224, 227, 232, 401, 568, nO, 736, 843, 872, 878, 898, 981, 

 1039, 1042, 1050, 1067, 1236, 1246, 1282, 1348, 1414, 1479, 1485, 

 1557— in all 27.) 



The collection of mammalian and bird skins has been thoroughly 

 examined. 



The ornithological collection has been arranged in the cases In' 

 Dr. James A. Ogden, Miss Sarah P. Monks, and Mr. Russel Hill. 

 Miss Monks has identified, labelled, and catalogued the species of 

 twenty -three families; and, in addition, has arranged and attached 

 the generic and family names to those identified bj^ her the previ- 

 ous year, Mr. Spencer Trotter has identified the species of the 

 familj^ S3'lvicolid<B. 



Mr. W. G. Freedle}' is arranging and labelling the collection of 

 bird's eggs. 



The alcoholic specimens of the jNfuseum have received due 

 attention. 



The cretaceous vertebrate fossils have been careful!}' gone over 

 and placed in a condition to prevent their destruction through the 

 decomposition of the sulphide of iron with which the}' are im- 

 pregnated. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876* 



The invertebrate fossils have been partially arranged bj' Mr. 

 Russel Hill, under the supervision of Mr. AYm. M. Gabb. 



31ost of the specimens donated, deposited, and purchased dur- 

 ing the 3'ear have been labelled and arranged in their appropriate 

 places. 



(Several vahiable specimens of minerals are missing from the 

 collection.) 



The contributions to the Museum during the 3'ear are as 

 follows: — 



Mammals. — A mounted skeleton of the Giraffe, 18 feet high, 

 a fine •specimen from Africa, purchased in London in 1ST5, pre- 

 sented by Wm. S. Yaux and Henr}' C. Gibson. 



A Dugong, in alcohol, presented by Mr. John Ching^ Wide 

 Bay, Queensland, through Mr. Angus Mackay, Commissioner of 

 Queensland. 



Two skeletons of Marmoset, presented hy Dr. Ed. Hartshorne. 

 A squirrel, from Mexico, presented bj^ the Zoological Society. A 

 monke}', Semnopithecus entellus ; a leopard, F. pardus ; a Suu 

 hear, Helarctos euryspil us ; and a Zalophus (7 iZZes/JU, deposited 

 by 0. B. Gross. 



The following were also presented : a foetal pig, by John Krider ; 

 a fcEtal kitten, by C. F. Parker; a mouse with fungus growth, by 

 P. F. Wells ; a hydrocephalic skull of a calf, by Mrs. A. A. Craw- 

 ford ; and an irregular osteo-dentinal growth from the tooth of a 

 sperm w^hale, by S. Powel. 



Birds. — A black-throated quail, Ortyx virginianus var. Hoopesii, 

 and a Trumpeter Swan, Cygnus americanus, presented by John 

 Krider. A Massena partridge, Cyrtonyx massena, from Neuees 

 R., Texas, presented b^- Lieut. A. C. Markle}', U. S. A. A 3'oung 

 heron, from Xew Jerse}', presented by John Maj's. An albino 

 King bird, from New Jersey, presented b}' George W. Earle. Four 

 bird skins, presented b}' John Wagner, through the Zoological 

 Society. 



Ten specimens, five species of bird skins, from Deraarara, pre- 

 sented by Col. P. Figgelmesy, U. S. Consul, Demarara. 



A finely mounted American eagle, from Arkansas, presented by 

 Dr. George W. Lawrence, Commissioner. 



The following were also presented : Five eggs of the Sage fowl, 

 by Dr. J. Van A. Carter; three eggs of the Jew bird, Crolophaga, 

 from San Domingo, by Wm. M. Gabb ; three eggs of Larus argen- 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



talus, by C. Mann; a nest of the Oriole, by Thos. L. Cernea ; and 

 a nest, by S. S. Haldeman. 



A Cygnus olor was deposited bj' 0. B. Gross. 



Reptiles, Amphibians, and Fishes. — Fourteen jars of reptiles 

 from British Guiana, presented by Mr. Gilbert, of Deniarara, 

 through Mr. A. A. Outerbridge, Commissioner for British Guiana. 

 Eight species of reptiles, from Trinidad, presented by Col. P. 

 Figgelmes}-. There were also presented a small collection of 

 reptiles, from San Domingo, by Wm. M. Gabb; and another from 

 Port au Prince, Hayti, b}^ Thomas Bland. Two snakes, from 

 Pocono, by T. Wagner and R. Fulmer. Several salamanders, 

 from Brush Mt., bj' Rev. H. C. McCook. A terrapin, by Mr. 

 Mather ; and several turtle eggs, by J. A. Ryder. 



Forty-two specimens, fort3'-one species of fishes, from South 

 America, collected by the Hassler Expedition, and forty-five 

 specimens of twentj'-six species, from tlie United States and AVest 

 Indies, were presented bj^ the Museum of Comparative Zoology 

 of Cambridge, Mass. 



Forty-eight specimens of thirtj'-six species of fishes, mostly 

 from the U. S. Atlantic coast, presented bj'^ E. D. Cope. 



Six species of fishes, from Janira R., San Domingo, and one 

 Flying-fish, w-ere presented by Wm. M. Gabb. 



The following were also presented: A salmon trout, from 

 Hobart Town, Tasmania, by the Tasmanian Salmon Commisson; 

 several viviparous fishes, from Vancouver IsL, bj- A. C. Engard ; 

 two shad and an alligator Gar, from Ouchita R., Ark., by Dr. G. 

 W. Lawrence; a Lucioperea and an Amia, by E. D. Cope; a 

 Flatyrostra edentula and Megalops trissoides, by the TJ. S. Fish 

 Commission ; a Lump fish, from Barnegat Bay, bj' D. M. Yost ; a 

 Tunney, from off Atlantic City, by R. Buckman ; a Saury, from 

 the same localitj', bj' Geo. W. Bugbee & Co.; Selene argentea, 

 Alatera cuspidala and Carangus, Squan R., N. J., b}' W. H. 

 Dougherty ; three species of fishes from the same river, by Jos. 

 Wiilcox; Mustelis canis and Anguilla, Atlantic Citj', by Geo. W. 

 Tr^'on, Jr. ; Engraulis, by T. P. Parker ; palatine teeth of drum 

 fish, by J. F. Leaming ; jaws of a fish, by Mrs. A. A. Crawford ; 

 and photograph and scale of the Tarpum, by R. Bridges and S. 

 Povvel. 



A small collection of reptiles and fishes, from South America, 

 was presented by Dr. C. Ilering, and another collection from vari- 

 ous localities was presented hy Dr. F. B. Stevenson, U. S. X. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Articulates^. — A small collection of insects, etc., from Port au 

 Prince, Hayti, was presented hy Thomas Bland ; a small collec- 

 tion of crustaceans and spiders, by Dr. F. B. Stevenson, U. S. K.; 

 a small collection of crustaceans, from San Domingo, bj^ Wra. M, 

 Gabb ; a small collection of myriapods, from Iowa, by D. S. 

 Sheldon through Dr. H. C. Wood ; three Scolopendra^ from Trini- 

 dad and Demarara, by Col. P. Figgelmesy ; seven species of spiders, 

 from Costa Rica, by Wm. M. Gabb; Calappa convexa^ by Capt. 

 L. D. Barrett ; Platyonychus ocellatus, by G. W. Tr3'^on, Jr. ; Alaus 

 occulatus, E. S. Whelen ; Polydesmus, by J. 0. Shimmel ; a grass- 

 hopper, from Guayaquil, by C. S. Rand ; larva of Guterebra, from 

 the skin of a rabbit, hy Prof. J. Lawrence Smith ; a beetle with 

 fungus growth, b}'- T. Pennington Conrad ; and a hornet nest, by 

 W. R. Jones. 



Radiates and Protozoans. — A superb collection of thirty-seven 

 corals, from Key West, Florida, presented by Wm. S. Yaux. 



A fine collection of seventeen corals, presented by Clarence S. 

 Bement. 



Seventeen species of Echini, and a large Neptune's cup sponge, 

 presented by Dr. Isaac Lea. 



Six corals, from Samoan Islands, and one coral from Alaska, 

 presented hy J. M. Emanuel. 



A Gorgonia and an Ophiura, and one hundred bottles of marine 

 dredgings, etc. (including protozoans, radiates, annelides, crusta- 

 ceans, moUusks, etc.) from the Pacific, presented by Dr. Wm. H. 

 Jones, U. S. N. 



A small collection of echinoderms in alcohol, from various 

 localities, presented b}^ Dr. F. B. Stevenson, U. S. X. 



A coral, from Bermuda, presented by J. P. Hand; and an 

 Echinus, Hipponoe esculenta, Caribbean Sea, presented by A. 

 Duer, through Mr. Doughert3\ 



A fine large specimen of Madrepora pnlmata, from Turk's Island, 

 was purchased. 



There were also presented three sponges, from Turk's Island, 

 by Wm. M. Gabb ; and a Halicondria, from Egg Harbor Ba}', N. 

 J., by W. H. Dougherty. 



Fossils A fine series of fossil foot tracks in slabs of red sand- 

 stone, together with a collection of remains of fishes, from the 

 valley of the Connecticut, presented bj- Dr. Isaac Lea. To the 

 same donor we are indebted for teeth and other remains of Mas- 

 todon^ of Ichthyosaurus, etc. 




18Y6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



A collection of fossils from the phosphate beds of Ashley R., 

 S. C, consisting of vertebra of sqnalodonts and cetaceans, the 

 beak of a ziphioid cetacean, teeth of sharks, etc., was presented 

 by Clarence S. Bement. 



Portion of the femur of Ilegalherium, vertebra of Squalodon^ 

 teeth of Equvs major, and dental plate of Myliobates, from the 

 Ashle}' R. phosphate beds, presented by Mr. George T. Lewis. 



Teeth and vertebrje of 3Iosasaurus, from Lumberton, Burling- 

 ton Co., N, J., presented by Thomas Moore through Col. T. ^l. 

 Bryan, 



Three different small collections of shark's teeth and other 

 remains of fishes and of reptiles, from the vicinity of Yincent- 

 town, N. J., presented by Col. T. M. Bryan. 



There were also presented the following: cetacean vertebra, 

 from Ashley R., S. C, by S. Thayer Abert ; tooth of 3[astodon 

 andmm, from the Amazon, by Dr. Isaac T. Coates ; cast of the 

 lower jaw of the Cohoes Mastodon, presented by Prof. James 

 Hall ; remains of Sphenosaurus clavi7'osfris, by S. S, Hakleman ; 

 do. of fishes from the mesozoic red shale of Montgomer}' Co., Pa., 

 by Prof. Joseph Leid^- ; Emys toyomivgensis, from Ft. Bridger, 

 Wj'oming, by Dr. J. Van A, Carter ; tooth of Carcharodon 

 megaIodo7i, from Chesapeake Bay, hj J. 0. Schimmel ; and copro- 

 lites, from Cambridgeshire, England, by Joseph P. Hazard. 



Other fossils received by the Academj^ consist mainly of inver- 

 tebrate remains. 



Mr. Wm. M. Gabb, alwa\'s a liberal donor to the Academy, as 

 well as an active contributor to geological science, has presented 

 tlie following collection: — 



Sixt3' species of cretaceous fossils, mostly original tj-pes ; 42 

 eocene fossils, from Texas, all original t3^pes; 31 miocene, 23 plio- 

 cene, and 85 post-pliocene fossils, of California, many original 

 types; 42 species of post-pliocene fossils of San Domingo, and 72 

 pliocene fossils of Costa Rica. Mr. Gabb also presented 45 species 

 of cretaceous fossils, most of which are described in his paper of 

 November 7th. 



Mr. Gabb further presented 225 specimens of 114 species of 

 cretaceous fossils of India, being duplicate types of the " Palffion- 

 tologia Indica," and labelled by Dr. Stoliczka. 



Our venerable friend, member, and ever zealous student of 

 natural history. Dr. Isaac Lea, has presented a collection consist- 

 ing of 250 species of secondary and tertiary fossils, American 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



and European, and 14 South American cretaceous fossils, tj'pes 

 of his paper in the Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, 2d ser., vol. vii. lie 

 has also presented a collection of 40 species of American and 

 foreign palaeozoic cretaceous and tertiary fossils. 



A collection of forty-seven lower carboniferous fossils, and five 

 others from the lower coal measures from Jefferson Co., Ala- 

 bama, were presented b}^ Dr. Wm. Gesner. 



Three fine specimens of Eurypterus remipes, from the Watei*- 

 lime group, near Buffalo, N. Y., presented by Tobias Witner, 

 Esq., through Prof. S. S. Haldeman. 



Twenty palaeozoic brachiopods, from Huntingdon Co., Pa., were 

 presented by John M. Hartman. 



Foriy-four devonian and silurian fossils, comprising brachio- 

 pods, corals, and a large slab of shale with a multitude of trilo- 

 bites, etc., from Ontario, Canada, presented by Thos. Burnett. 



Twenty species of cretaceous fossils, from New Jerse}^, and a 

 collection of minute fossils, comprising many specimens and 

 species, from the cretaceous limestone of Yincenttown, N. J., 

 presented by Col. T. M. Bryan. 



Of other invertebrates, the following were presented : a collec- 

 tion of shells from the Paris basin, etc., and encrenites, b}"^ Dr. 

 Isaac Lea ; a collection of marl fossils from Yincenttown by Col. 

 Bryan; cobble stone with ScolifJius linearis, from drift, Wash- 

 ington, D. C, by Prof. Wm. B. Rogers; numerous Amnicola gal- 

 bana, Sussex Co., N. J.; Inoceramus and another cretaceous 

 fossil, from Texas; and Inoceramus barabeni, Selma, Alabama, 

 by Prof. Haldeman; Avimonites oblusus, England, by Miss Mary 

 Haig; coral, Luzerne Co., Pa., b}^ E. K. Bryer; Gryphsea vesi- 

 cularis, New Jerse}', by W. H. Dougherty; Avicula, Munroe Co., 

 Pa., by C. F. Parker ; two Orthoceratites, Arkansas, by Dr. G. 

 W. Lawrence; a new species of Nautilus from Yincenttown, N. 

 J., by Col. Brj'an ; seven fossils from Hajti, by Thos. Bland ; 

 several from New Jersey, by Mr. Gabb; and a Gryphsea and an 

 Ammonite from Hemstead Co., Ark., by Dr. Geo. W. Lawrence. 



Of fossil plants. Dr. George W. Lawrence, Arkansas Commis- 

 sioner, presented two large silicified trunks, measuring each up- 

 wards of four feet in length and a foot in diameter, from Hot 

 Springs Co., Arkansas. Dr. Isaac Lea presented nine fossil 

 plants, and Dr. Lawrence one coal plant from Arkansas. 



Minerals. — Among the most interesting of the minerals 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



given to the Acadenn-, is a collection of fift^'-six specimens of 

 Ozocerite and the associated rock strata, from Boryslaw, Carpa- 

 thian Mountains, Galicia, presented b}' Paul Dobel through Dr. 

 F. Migerka, Austrian Commissioner. 



A crystal of Barytes, sixty pounds weight, from Dufton, Cum- 

 berland, England, was presented by Wm. S. Yaux. The follow- 

 ing were also presented by the same gentleman: a large crj'stal 

 of Apatite, from Burgess, Canada; Anglesite, Phoenixville, Pa.; 

 Brown Tourmaline, Governeur, N. Y. ; Apophyllite with Anal- 

 cime: and Datholite, from Bergen Hill, N. J. 



Dr. Isaac Lea presented the following: one hundred specimens of 

 rocks from Scotland ; thirty-seven do. from a coal shaft, England ; 

 fortj^ do. from the route from Cruces on Chagres R. to Panama; 

 eight additional rock specimens; thirty-five coprolites and septa- 

 ria from near Edinburgh ; a mass of mesozoic conglomerate, Ply- 

 mouth, Montgomery Co., Pa.; Clinochlore in Chlorite, from 

 Chester Co., Pa.; Magnetite, from Tilly Foster Mine, N. Y. ; and 

 a specimen of silicified wood. Dr. Lea also deposited an iron 

 meteorite, weight two hundred and fiftj^-four pounds, from the 

 mountains of East Tennessee. 



Mr. Joseph Willcox presented collections consisting of two 

 Rutiles, Georgia; two Apatites, Canada; Sulphur, Nevada; four 

 Houghite, Strontianite, all St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. ; Emerylite, 

 Cyanite,N. Carolina; Pyrophyllite, S.Carolina; Tremolite, Conn.; 

 Hornblende, X. J. ; Tourmaline, three Anthophyllite, Del. Co.; 

 two Actinolite, Fibrolite, Deweylite, Chester Co.; Mesolite, Nova 

 Scotia; Zoisite, Ducktown, Tenn. ; P^'rite, Columbia Co. ; Tachj-- 

 lite, Nova Scotia ; and P^'rophyllite, N. Carolina. 



A fine specimen of Fire Opal, from Zimapan, Mexico, was pre- 

 sented by Prof. Mariano Barcena. 



A collection of minerals from Arkansas, consisting of Quartz 

 and its varieties, Arkansite, Pvutile, Schorlamite, Garnet, Mag- 

 netite, etc., was presented by Dr. Geo. W. Lawrence. 



Fift3'-nine rocks and minerals of Brazil, presented b}' Dr. J. M. 

 da Silva Coutinho, Secretar}'^ of the Brazilian Commission. 



A collection consisting of Sussexite, Jeffersonite, Rcepperite, 

 and Calamine, from Franklin, Sussex Co., N. J.; Unakite, North 

 Carolina; Copper, Lake Superior; Dendrites in shale; and 

 eight Hematites and Limonites, Michigan, presented by John M. 

 Hartman. 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



Two Satin-spars, England ; Gypsum, Michigan ; a collection of 

 rocks, mostly fragments of boulders , eleven other rocks; two 

 calc-tufas, and five fragments of glacial polished rocks, from 

 Niagara, presented b}' Thomas Burnett. 



Of other minerals, there were presented the following: — 



Mauganite, Ihlfeld, Hartz ; Aragonite, Herrngrund, Hungary; 

 two Arkansites, and a Rutile, Magnet Cove, Ark., presented by C. 

 S. Bement. Vivianite, from Vincenttown, N. J., by Col. T. M. 

 Brj-an. Diaspore, from near Unionvillc, Chester Co., by T. F. 

 Seal. Cassiterite, Durango, Mexico, by S. C. Bruce. Peat, Ire- 

 land, by Mary Mulholland. Two phosphatic nodnles, Ashley R., 

 S. C, by Geo. T. Lewis. Mullicite, Miillica Hill, N. J., by T. D. 

 Rand. Native Mercury, Cal., by Dr. T. H. Streets. Strontianite, 

 Mifflin Co., Pa., by H. C. Lewis. Serpentine, Harford Co., Md., 

 by Wm. Struthers. Four topazes, Bass' Straits, by Miss Hull. 

 Copper, Lake Superior, by B. A. Hoopes. Eleven iron ores, Ala- 

 bama, by Dr. Wm. Gesner. Sixteen iron ores, Bohemia, bv W. 

 Nedwied & Son, through Dr. F. Migerka. Magnetic iron, Costa 

 Rica, by W. M. Gabb. Three Graphites, Canada, by the Plum- 

 bago Co., Ottawa, Canada. Stibnite, Blende, Galena, Chalcopj'- 

 rite, etc., Arkansas, by W. E. Powell. Gypsum and Kaolin, Ark., 

 by Thomas Essex. Sphene and casts of crystals, Chester Co., 

 Pa., by W. H. Forwood, M.D. Two Calcites, Montana, by Y. E. 

 Cline and P. Barhite. Celestine, Blair Co., Pa., by Rev. H. C. 

 McCook. Four auriferous Quartzes, Chalcopyrite and Garnet, Si- 

 beria, by Dr. S. H. Linn. Halloysite, Indiana, by Mr. Dougherty. 

 Halloysite, N. Y., by E. Goldsmith. Fichtelite, Bavaria; and 

 four rocks from Lehigh and Delaware Co., by Dr. Leidy. Seven 

 minerals, Australia, by J. M. Emanuel. Rose chalcedomj-, Cali- 

 fornia, by W. H. Doughert}'. 



There were also purchased : Hornblende, from Edwards, N. Y., 

 Heulandite, Iceland ; Garnet, Chester Co., and a fine crystal of 

 Amazon stone, Pikes' Peak, Colorado. 



Ethnological and Miscellaneous. — A collection of American In- 

 dian stone relics, from Arkansas, was presented b}' Dr. G. W. 

 Lawrence. 



A collection of ten pieces of pottery, etc., from Nicaragua, was 

 presented by Dr. J. H. Bransford, D. S. N. 



Twelve pieces of pottery, from Peru, and three pieces of tapa 

 cloth from Hawaii, etc., presented by Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



In addition, the following were presented : — 



A fossil tooth of Carcharodon magalodon, artificially' shaped 

 into an Indian implement, taken with stone relics, etc., from a 

 shell heap at Cedar Ke^'S, Florida, by R. M. Smith. Kope, mat, 

 and paper, from the Samoan Island; native sword, fans, etc., from 

 Fiji Isle, and opium pipe, from China, by J. M. Emanuel ; several 

 arrowheads and chips, from shores of Delaware ; an arrowhead 

 from Tennessee, and a pestle from New Jersey, by Dr. I. Lea. An 

 Eskimo ice-pick, by Prof. S. S. Haldeman ; stone hatchet and ar- 

 rowhead, Glassboro, N. J., by Charles Berry ; an arrowhead from 

 Ohio, by T. C. Ileighway; and a peculiar stone relic, b^^ Mr. 

 Trimble. 



Dr. R. M, Bertolet deposited a collection consisting of one hun- 

 dred and eighty-two arrowheads, two axes, one chisel, etc., besides 

 forty-six specimens consisting of axes, pestles, pottery, carved 

 pipe bowl, etc. 



Respectfully submitted by 



Joseph Leidy, 

 Chairman of Curators. 



REPORT OF RECORDER OF BIOLOGICAL AND 

 MICROSCOPICAL SECTION. 



The extraordinary demands upon the time, attention, and 

 resources of Philadelphia physicians, throughout the centennial 

 3'ear, consequent upon the meeting in this city of the Interna- 

 tional Medical Congress, the American Medical Association, and 

 the Pennsylvania State Medical Society, have seriously interfered 

 with the prosecution of scientific research among our members 

 during the past twelvemonth. On the other hand, however, by 

 way of compensation, the presence of representative scientists 

 from all parts of the world in attendance upon these conventions 

 and on the Centennial Exhibition itself, has not only rendered the 

 discussions at our meetings of the section more ijiteresting and 

 instructive, but has enabled us to give on the lOth of October last, 

 by far the most successful microscopical exhibition and conversa- 

 zione that has ever been organized in this city. 



As remarked by the editor of a well-known Journal of Micro- 

 scopy in concluding his account of the exhibition : "Altogether 

 the meeting was a most pleasant and instructive one. It brought 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



together face to face a large number of men who bad known 

 eacb other b}' reputation for j'eai*s, but who had not previously- 

 met, and it afforded such an opportunit}'- for comparing the diffe- 

 rent forms of microscopes as does not often occur." 



During the 3"ear communications have been presented by Dr. J. 

 Gibbons Hunt, "On the Potato Fungus," "On the Study of 

 Embryonal Tissue," " On Aleurone," " On The Ijasso Cells of 

 Physalis Caravella ;'^ by Dr. J. H. McQuillen, "On Sporendonema 

 musca;" by Dr. Carl Seller, " On an Economical Heliostat," " On 

 a New Cement for Glycerin Mountings," " On a Novel Method of 

 Silver Staining with the Iodine and Bromine Compounds;" by 

 Prof. T. G. Wormley, of Columbus, Ohio, " On Improved Double 

 Slides of Red Blood Corpuscles ;" by Dr. H. Allen, " In regard to 

 Microscopic Changes in Mucous Membranes after Topical Medi- 

 cation ;" by Mr. J. Zentmayer, " On the Improved Large American 

 Microscope;" by Mr. W. H. Walmsly, "On the Double Staining 

 of Yegetable Tissue;" by Mr. D. S. Holman, " On a New Form 

 of Life Slide ;" and by Dr. J. G. Richardson, " On the Amphiuma 

 (or 3Ii(ra7iopsis) tridactyhimy 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Jos. G. Richardson, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE RECORDER OF CONCHOLOGICAL 



SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully- reports 

 that the malacological papers accepted by the Academy, and pub- 

 lished in its Proceedings during 1876, aggregate 26 pages, as 

 follows : — 



Wm. G. Binney, 10 pages. C. A. White, 7 pages. 



Wm. H. Dall, 4 " . T. A. Conrad, 2 " 



R. E. C. Stearns, 2 " " W G. Mazyck, 1 " 



A valuable paper entitled "Description of a Collection of Fossils 

 made by Dr. Raimondi in Peru," l)y Wm. M. Gabb, and fully 

 illustrated, is also in course of publication in the Journal of the 

 Academy. 



For a list of donations to the librar}', see report of the Libra- 

 rian of the Acadeni}'. 



The principal donation to the museum was the fine collection of 




18Y6.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



the late John S. Phillips by bequest. Of this valuable acquisition, 

 2584 specimens have been labelled and mounted in 938 trays. 

 Few of these are specific novelties, but they add either to the 

 varieties or the geographical suites. It is estimated that an equal 

 number may be added from portions of this cabinet not yet ex- 

 amined. The aggregate of specimens labelled and mounted 

 during the year is 2913 specimens in 1104 trays. 



At its November meeting the Section appropriated $235.00 for 

 fitting glass sashes in the drawers beneath the shell cases. When 

 this work is completed, the collection will occupy a total space of 

 4765 square feet, or more than two and a half times as much as 

 that occupied in the old building. 



The officers of the Section for 1877 are — 



Director . . . . W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



Vice-Director . . . William M. Gabb. 



Recorder . . . . S. Raymond Roberts. 



Secretarxj . . . . E. R. Beadle. 



Treasurer . . . William L. Mactier. 



Librarian .... Edward J. Nolan. 



Conservator . . . Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



The following is a list of donations to the Couchological Cabi- 

 net, taken from the Report of the Conservator of the Section: — 



Avicula, from the South Sea Islands. Presented by Dr. W. H. 

 Jones, U. S. N. 



Physa gyrina, Say. From Watkins Glen, N. Y. Presented by 

 John H, Cooper. 



Eleven species of Unio, Anodonta, Etheria, Tridina, and Moyxo- 

 condylcea. From Cambodia, the Nile, and New Caledonia. Pre- 

 sented by S. S. Haldeman. 



Helix Van Nostrandi, Augusta, Georgia, and six species of 

 BulimuH and Gylindrella. Presented by Thos. Bland. 



Group of Eggs of Ampullaria depressa, Say. From Florida. 

 Presented by Josepli Willcox. 



The collection of shells of the late John S. Phillips, comprising 

 about 2500 species, together with the cases containing the same. 

 Bequeathed by him. 



Oyster shell with eggs attached. Presented by C. ]M. Hyatt. 



Twenty-seven specimens of Helix rareguttata, Mouss. Java. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1816. 



Four specimens of Helix puella, Brod. ; five H. pulcherrima^ 

 Sowb. ; and six H. argiUacea, Fer., Timor, PliiUppines. Presented 

 by Mr. Gregory. 



Fifty species of European shells, and thirty-eight types of 

 Muhlfeldt's Genera of Mollusca. From Dr. I. Lea. 



Helix senigma, Dohrn. From New Granada. Presented by 

 Thos. Bland. 



Six species of shells. From Samoan Islands. Presented by 

 J. M. Emanuel. 



Two specimens of Vimpara lineata, Yal. ; Pupa contracta^ Say ; 

 P. armigera^'&a.y ; and Conulus chersina,&a.y. From Davenport, 

 Iowa. Presented by D. S. Sheldon. 



Several specimens of Cypraea moneta. From Rutgers College 

 in exchange. 



Eggs of Loligo punctata, DeKay ; specimens of nidus of Natica; 

 Ilyanassa obsoleta, Say; Natica duplicata, Say; 31ya arenaria, 

 Lin. ; Mactra solidissima, Ch., and seven other species. From 

 Atlantic City, N. J. Presented by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Eight specimens of Hemimactra solidissima, Ciiemn. From 

 Atlantic City, N. J. Presented by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Ten specimens of Helix terredris, Ch. From Charleston, S. 

 C. Presented by G. Mazyck. 



Three specimens of Microphysa Ingersolli, Bland, Animas 

 Valle}', So. Colorado. Two Pupilla alticola, Ingersoll, Howards- 

 ville, Colorado. Presented bj^ Ernest Ingersoll. 



Two specimens Dsedalochila avara, Say. From St. John's 

 River, Fla. Two Liostracus Dormani^ W. G. Biuney , from Florida. 

 Two Helix Cumherlandiana, Lea. From Universit}' Place, Frank- 

 lin Co., Tenn. Presented by Chas. Duey. 



Fifteen species of Marine Shells, from Santo Domingo and Turks 

 Island, W. I. Presented by Wm. M. Gabb. 



Respectfully submitted, 



S. R. Roberts, Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONSERVATOR OF ENTOMOLO- 

 GICAL SECTION. 



In presenting this, the first annual Report of the Entomological 

 Section of your Academy, the conservator of the same feels tliat 

 it is difficult to render full justice to the Section at this time. The 




1876.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



Section as 3'et is in its chiklliood, and some time ^vill be required 

 to fnlh' develop its vigor. 



The American Entomological Society' constitutes in its relation 

 to the Academy of Natural Sciences the Entomological Section of 

 the latter. Though working under different titles, they are essea- 

 tiallj' one and the same. 



Under the terms mutually agreed upon by the two societies, the 

 American Entomological Society held its first meeting in the build- 

 ing of the Academ}^ on Feb. 14, 1876. After tliat meeting, the 

 members of the Entomological Society took such action as was 

 deemed necessary, culminating in a meeting held May 12, at which 

 the Entomological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 was fully organized, and entered upon the transaction of business 

 as such. The American Entomological Society thereupon passed 

 resolutions, directing that only two meetings should be held by it 

 each 3'ear, said meetings to be held in June and December, for the 

 transaction of business strictl^^ belonging to it, and that all other 

 stated meetings were to be those of the Section. 



Under the above rule the Section has held thus far seven meet- 

 ings, with an average attendance of seven members. 



The meetings of the Section are held on the second Friday of 

 each month. 



During the past seven months, nine entomological papers have 

 been presented for publication in the Transactions of the Societ}^ ; 

 seven of which have been reported upon affirmatively, and two 

 are yet in the hands of committees. 



Two members of the Academy have l^een elected members of 

 the Section in addition to tliose originally constituting the same. 



The conservator would report that the specimens in the collec- 

 tion of the Section are in good condition. He is not prepared to 

 state at this time the actual number of specimens in the collection, 

 the large number of undetermined specimens making it impossible 

 for him to do so. 



At a meeting of the American Entomological Society, held 

 December 11th inst., the following was presented: — 



^'' Resolved^ That the sum of one hundred dollars from the funds 



of the Society be donated to the general fund of the Academy of 



Natural Sciences," which resolution passed by a unanimous vote. 



In accordance with the above resolution, an order on the ti'easurer 



26 




394 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



of the American Entoraologieal Society for $100 is herewith pre- 

 sented to the Academy. 



The following have been elected to fill the several offices of the 

 Section for the year 18tT: — 



Director John L. LeConte, M.D, 



Vice-Director Geo. H. Horn, M.D. 



Secretary C. A. Bhake. 



Recoi'der J. H. Ridings. 



Treasurer . . . . . E. T. Cresson. 

 Conservator ..... James Ridings. 

 Publication Committee . . . E. T. Cresson, 



J. L. LeConte, M.D., 

 Chas. A. Blake, 

 Geo. H. Horn, M.D., 

 Chas. Wilt. 

 James Ridings, Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE CONSERVATOR OF THE BOTANICAL 



SECTION. 



Tlie Conservator presents this first report since the organiza- 

 tion of the Botanical Section, upon the condition of, the additions 

 to, and the needs of the Academj^'s Herbarium. The Section has 

 been so recently established, that such a report may be expected 

 to be but imperfect, and to be regarded rather as preliminary 

 than otherwise. But as much work has been done during the 

 year by the Committee on Botany, appointed under the old by- 

 laws of the Academy', aided bj' the volunteer etl'orts of other 

 members, who will, it is hoped, continue to co-operate with the 

 Section, it will be proper to embrace a retrospect of what has 

 been done during the whole year. 



And first, the Conservator would congratulate the members of 

 the Section and of the Academy, as well as tlie scientific public, 

 that the botanical treasures of the Academ}' have been exhumed 

 from the dusty and dingy den in which the3Mvere entombed in the 

 former building, and that they are now made really accessible to 

 students. The removal was accomplished at the beginning of the 

 year. Before attempting to re-arrange the collection, the leading 

 Herbaria of the country were visited, and the details of their 




1876.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



arrangements examined. For verj^ valuable suggestions in this 

 regard we are indebted to Prof, Graj^ of Cambridge ; and also to 

 Prof Eaton, of Xew Haven ; and to P. Y. Lero}', the Curator of 

 the Torrey Herbarium, at Columbia College, New York. Our 

 own Curators, availing themselves of these and other suggestions, 

 have spared no pains or expense in fitting up for our department 

 a series of shelves and cases wliich fully meet our present wants, 

 and which are in every way suitable to the careful preservation of 

 the plants, and for facilit}' of comparison and study. It is due to 

 Mr. Tr3-on to say that, fulh* appreciating our needs in this respect, 

 he entered heartih' into the plans, and, as Curator, gave them his 

 careful supervision. 



These cases were completed about the 1st of May, and the labor 

 of transferring the plants from the old unwieldy portfolios to the 

 new shelves was carried on and completed during the summer 

 mainly by the aid of Messrs. Meehan, Burke, and Parker. Among 

 the packages removed from the old building were enormous piles 

 of duplicate specimens which had been accumulating for j'ears, 

 some of which had lain buried, suflering from the ravages of in- 

 sects, and few of which had been carefully examined. These, by 

 the labors of Messrs. Burke, Meehan, Schimmel, Left'man, and 

 others, have been examined, the ruined plants thrown out, and the 

 remainder brought into some kind of partial arrangement, which, 

 when completed, will enable us to select from these stores such 

 specimens as may be desirable for the Herbarium, and to render 

 the remainder useful for purposes of exchanges. This labor our 

 Committee on Duplicates will doubtless continue and complete. 



The Committee on the Herbarium, at its last meeting, decided 

 on the general arrangement of the collection on a plan similar to 

 that adopted at the Kew Gardens, and at Dr. Gray's Herbarium 

 at Cambridge. The Conservator is now preparing the necessary 

 tablets for displaying the names of the Natural Orders, and the 

 lists of the Genera in each order. When this work is completed, 

 the ease of consulting the Herbarium will be vastly' increased, 

 and any one of the 9000 known genera may be turned to, as 

 readily as to a word in the dictionary. 



During the past year the following donations have been re- 

 ceived for the Academy's Herbarium: — 



185 lots of cones of ConiferjB, and acorns of Oaks. Presented 

 by Josiah Hoopes, 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1876. 



31 species of Plants, collected near Peking, China, by Rev. S. 

 Wells Williams, 1868-9. Presented by John H. Redfield. 



Ill species of Plants, from Norwegian Mountains, collected by 

 Prof. Willhelm Bork. Presented by Dr. H. C. Wood. 



Leaves of Argyroxiphium Sandioiceiice, from the volcanoes of 

 Kileau, Hawaii, Sandwich Islands. Presented by J. A. Rj^der. 



Branch of Pinus pungens, bearing cones. Presented by Dr. 

 Isaac Lea. 



Specimen of Gaylussacia brachi/cera, Gray^ from Millsborough, 

 Sussex County, Delaware. Collected and presented by W. M. 

 Canby. 



Specimen of Rice Grass, Paspalum, from prairies, Sedgwick 

 County, Kansas. Presented by Atchinson, Topeka, and Sante 

 Fe Railroad Compan}-. 



Sample Alfalfa, raised by W. H. Egan, Sedgwick Count_y, 

 Kansas. Presented by Atchinson, Topeka, and Sante Fe Rail- 

 road Compan3\ 



Specimen of Hahenaria rotundifoUa, from N. Vermont, a new 

 localit3\ Presented by Dr. A. Gray. 



Sjeveral specimens of Salix longifolia, with abnormally devel- 

 oped buds, produced by the sting of an insect. From the banks 

 of the Pecos River, Texas. Presented by Lieut. A. C. Markley. 



Specimen of Onoclea Hensibilis^'L., Var. obtus folia, Torr., from 

 near Germantown. Presented by Isaac C. Martindale. 



Bark from which Tapa cloth is made. From Samoan or 

 Navigators' Islands. Presented b}^ Dr. Ruschenberger. 



Specimens of Leonurus glaucus, collected near the mouth of 

 Wissahickon Creek. Presented by I. C. Martindale. 



Hydnum ? Presented by Mr. Whelen. 



Cone oi Pinus coulter i, C'ttpressus, n.sp., and Pinus sabriniana. 

 From California. Presented by Mr. Begg. 



A collection of Woods, Coflee, Cotton, Fibres, Bark, Seeds, 

 Resins, India-rubbers, Leaf Tobacco, Sarsaparilla, Cone of Auro- 

 caria^ etc. From Brazil. Presented by Dr. Jose de Saldanha da 

 Gama, of the Brazilian Commission. 



Cj'press Knee, from Arkansas. Presented by Dr. Lawrence. 



Specimens of Cotton, Millet, etc., from Arkansas. Presented by 

 Dr. Geo. W. Lawrence. 



Four species of Ferns: Asplenium innnatifidum, A. tricho- 

 manes, A. monlanum, and Trichomanes radicans. Collected at 




18T6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHlLADELnilA. 397 



Rock Castle Springs, Kentucky. Presented bj^ Miss G. H. Rule, 

 through J. C. Marti ndale. 



Cone of Finus Torrei/aua, Parrj', from Southern San Diego 

 Count}^ California (Pallner Collection, No. 368). Presented by 

 John H. Redfield. 



As regards the future needs of our Herbarium, both as to ar- 

 rangement and as to perfecting the collection, the Conservator 

 has but too recenth' entered upon his duties to speak fuWy. It 

 is sufficient now to say that there is already apparent the need of 

 an enormous amount of labor, both scientific and mechanical, and 

 of considerable expenditure, to make our collection what it 

 ought to be. The completion of the Order tablets, and the ar- 

 ranging of the plants in the new genus covers, will absorb much 

 labor, but will require little expenditure bej-ond what has already 

 been incurred. But we must look forward to the day when the 

 whole of our large collection shall be properly mounted upon 

 paper, as the only wa}" to preserve the specimens from injur}' in 

 handling, and from a still greater danger, that of confusion arising 

 from misplacing of laljels. There is great reason to believe that 

 we have suffered very greatly from such misplacement in times 

 past, and that man}' type specimens of Xuttall and others have 

 become subjected to doubt, and thus deprived of value. But 

 before this consummation can be properly reached, there is a vast 

 amount of careful, conscientious, and critical scientific work to be 

 done, especiall}' in the general Herbarium, in the re-elaboration 

 of the determinations, culling out of rubbish, and replacement of 

 inferior specimens by better, and in cataloguing with reference to 

 the suppl}' of our deficiencies. 



In all these departments there is plentiful room for the labor of 

 all the young botanists of the Academy', and for all the knowledge 

 of the older ones. 



John H. Redfield, 



Co)iservator. 



The election of Officers for 1877 was held in accordance with 

 the by-laws with the following i-esult: — 



President . . . W. S. W. Rusehenberger, M.D. 

 Vice-Presidents . . Wm. S. Yaux, 



J. L. LeConte, M.D. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1876. 



Recording Secretary . Edw. J. Xolan, M.D. 



Corresponding Secretary Geo. H. Horn, M.D. 



Treasurer . . . Wm. C, Henszey. 



Librarian . . . Edw. J. Nolan, M.D. 



Curators . . . Jos. Leidy, M.D., 



Wm. S. Yaux, 

 Cbas. F. Parker, 

 H. C. Chapman, M.D. 



Councillors to serve three J. S. Haines, 

 years Geo. Yaux, 



Wm. H. Dougherty, 

 Aubrey H. Smith. 

 Councillors to serve an un- Jos. Wharton, 

 expired ter'm of two years Chas. P. Perot. 

 Finance Committee . . Wm. S. Yaux, 



Aubrey H. Smith, 

 Edw. S. Whelen. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1876. 



MEMBERS. 



January 25.— Rev. W. Q. Scott, Dr. Henry M. Fisher, Dr. 

 Alfred Whelen, Dr. W. F. Waugh, U. S. N., Edwin H. Fitler, 

 Charles L. Sharpless, Charles H. Rogers, Dr. Wm. R. Cruice. 



March 7. — Wm. Harris Kneass, James H. Windrira, Crozer 

 Griffith, Jesse W. Starr, Wm. L. Abbott, Robert Wood, Thomas 

 S. Root, Howard Spencer, James Ridings, Jas. W. McAllister, 

 Charles Wilt, Wm. S. Pine, John Meichel, Charles A. Blake, 

 James H. Ridings, Geo. B. Dixon, Geo. Biddle, Horace F. Jayne, 

 J. Sergeant Price. 



March 28 John Akhurst, Theo. L. Mead, Stuart Wood, Dr. 



John Eckfeldt, Edward Tatnall, Jr., Benj. H. Smith, James M. 

 Rhodes, John T. Lewis, Jr., John S. Martin, Henry Pemberton, 

 Charles W. Trotter, Charles Roberts, Edward K. Tryon, Edward 

 Potts, Pierre Munzinger, Dr. Washington Hopkins Baker, Rath- 

 mell Wilson. 




1816.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



May 2. — William Nelson, Rev. Charles A. Dicke}', Dr. Robert 

 Hess, George A. Piersol, John Wister, Oliver Bradin, Dr. Wni. B. 

 Brewster, Dr. J. Henry C. Simes, Pliny E. Chase. 



June 6. — Dr. Chas. E. Slocum, Edward Taj'lor, Maxwell Som- 

 merville, Henry M. Laing, William Wharton, Jr., C. H. Cramp, 

 Charles H. Rogers, A. R. Justice, Mrs. Gertrude A. Quimb^^, 

 J. S. Helfenstein, Thomas J. Audenreid, Edward P. Borden. 



June 27. — John Russell, Isaac C. Martindale, Arthur Erwin 

 Brown, Dr. A. C. Lambdin, Geo. A. Wright, Harvey Fisher. 



July 25. — E. O. Thompson, Dr. Albert E. Foote. 



September 26. — Dr. Isaac T. Coates. 



October 31.— H. F. Whitman, Edwin A. Barber, Dr. W. H. For- 

 wood, U. S. A. 



November 28. — Walter H. Ashmead, Louis F. Benson. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



March T. — M. Alphonse Pinart, Paris ; Edward T. Stevens, 

 Salisbur^'^, England. 



March 28. — Baron Ferdinand von Mueller, of Melbourne, Aus- 

 tralia; Prof. Austin Flint, M.D., of New York. 



June 6. — Prof. W^entzel Gruber, of St. Petersburg, Russia. 



July 25. — Jose de Saldanha da Gama, of Rio Janeiro; Dom 

 Pedx'o II., Emperor of Brazil; Capt. Luiz de Saldanha da Gama, 

 of the Imperial Brazilian Navy. 



August 29. — Dr. S. H. Linn, of St. Petersburg, Russia; Prof. 

 Paul Groth, of Strassburg; Dr. James Hector, of New Zealand. 



September 26 — Don Alvaro de la Gandara, of Madrid, Spain; 

 Col. Juan J. Marin, of Madrid, Spain; Signor Alessandro Castel- 

 lani, of Rome. 



October 31.— Col. W. L. Ludlow, Eng. Corps, U. S. A. 



November 28. — Dr. A. S. Packard, Salem, Massachusetts; W. 

 H. Holmes, U. S. Geol. Surv. ; Prof. Lauren90 Malheiro, of Lisbon, 

 Portuoal, 




400 CORRESPONDENCE. 



CORRESPONDEXCE OF THE ACADEMY. 



1876. 



January. — H. M. Hull, in reference to donations from the Tasinanian 

 Commission. 



Societa Toscana di Scienza Naturali, Pisa, requesting exchanges and 

 transmitting publications. 



American Association for the Advancement of Science ; 



Astronomischen Gesellschaft, Leipzig; 



Natural History Society of Northumberland, Durham, and Newcastle- 

 upon-Tyne; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Frankfurt a. M.; 



Eoyal Academy of Amsterdam ; severally acknowledging receipt of, and 

 transmitting publications. 



Belfast Museum; 



Observatory of Madrid; 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Emden; 



L'Academie Royale des Sciences Suedoise de Stockholm ; 



Geological Survey of India, Calcutta ; 



Kaiserliche Akademie der AVissenschaften in "Wien ; 



Royal Meteorological Institute, Utrecht ; 



Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft zu Chemnitz; 



AertzHchen Verein. Frankfurt; 



University Catholique de Louvain ; severally transmitting publications. 



February. — Naturhistorisches Verein in Augsburg; 



Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft ; severally acknowledging 

 receipt of, and transmitting publications. 



Royal Society of Edinburgh, acknowledging receipt of publications. 



Naturhistorisches Yerein in Passau ; 



New York State Library ; 



Konigliche Norwegische Universitiit zu Christiania ; severally transmit- 

 ting publications. 



Smithsonian Institution, thanking the Academy for the privilege of stor- 

 ing its plates. 



University Observatory, Oxford, inviting contributions to the library. 



Commission Geologique de TEmpire du Bresil. 



University of Norway, notice of the death of Dr. Wm. Boeck. 




CORRESPONDENCE. 401 



March. — Soci6t6 Hollandaise des Sciences, a Harlem ; 



Geological Survey of India, Calcutta; 



Gesellschaft Naturforscliende Freunde; severally transmitting publica- 

 tions. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Freiberg, acknowledging receipt of pub- 

 lications. 



Dr. Alfred Gunther, acknowledging receipt of diploma. 



Jas. P. Holmes, Minneapolis, Min., requesting names of members collect- 

 ing plants with a view to exchange. 



April.— Br. A. Flint, Jr. ; 



E. T. Stevens, Esq., Salisbury, Eng. ; severally acknowledging election as 

 correspondents. 



Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der gesanimten Naturwissenschaften, Mar- 

 burg ; acknowledging receipt of. and transmitting publications. 



A. J. Phillips, in reference to Mr. Jno. S. Phillips' bequest to the Academy. 



Society Imp6riale des Naturalistes de Moscou, acknowledging receipt of 

 publications. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Danzig. 



Naturwissenschaftliche Verein fur das FUrstenthum TAineburg. 



Mannheiiner Yerein fiir Naturkunde ; severally transmitting jmblications. 



May. — Archa3ological Society of Ohio, inviting the Academy to partici- 

 pate in the International Convention of Archaeologists. 



Smithsonian Institution ; 



Buffalo Society of Natural History ; 



Bergen Museum ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



Sammlung fiir Kunst und Wissenschaft, Dresden, transmitting publica- 

 tions through the German Embassy at AVashington. 



Musee Teyler ; il Harlem ; 



K. k. zoologisch-botanischo Gesellschaft Vienna ; severally acknowledg- 

 ing receipt of, and transmitting publications. 



F. W. Hutton, acknowledging receipt of exchanges for i\loa skeleton from 

 Otago Museum. 



Robt. J. Stevens, Clerk of the House of Eepresentatives, in reference to 

 a memorial to Congress by the Academy. 



A. Bohatta, Vienna, in reference to a proposed device in telegraphy. 

 Jesse W. Starr, acknowledging election as a member. 



June. — Kaiserliche Mineralogische Gesellschaft zu St. Petersburg ; 



Konigliche Sachsische Gesellschaft, Leipzig ; severally transmitting pub- 

 lications. 



Canadian Institute; 



New York Academy of Sciences ; 



Yale College Library; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



Baron F. von Mueller, Melbourne, Australia, acknowledging election as 

 correspondent. 




402 CORRESPONDENCE. 



Museum of Comparative Zoology, presenting a collection of fishes. 

 Lyceum of Natural History of New York, announcing change of name 

 to New York Academy of Sciences. 



Chas. E. Slocum. in reference to election as member. 

 J. T. Audenried, acknowledging election as a member. 



July. — Joseph Menges, Frankfurt a. M., in reference to being sent on an 

 expedition. 



Boston Society of Natural History, acknowledging receipt of publications. 



A. E. Brown, acknowledging election as a member. 



Chas. H. Stubbs, M.D., in reference to models of stones marking Mason 

 and Dixon's line. 



August. — E. T. Stevens, Esq., presenting work on Stonehenge. 



M. C. Cooke, in reference to publication of a paper in journal. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia, acknowledging the receipt of two green 

 snakes. 



Akademie Eoyale de Lisbonne ; 



University Library, Cambridge, Eng. ; 



Belfast Natural History and Philosophical Society ; 



Edinburgh Geological Society ; severally acknowledging receipt of publi- 

 cations. 



Belfast Naturalists' Field Club ; 



Verein zur Yerbreitung NaturwissenschaftKche Kentniss in Wien ; seve- 

 rally transmitting publications. 



September. — Leydeu Astronomical Observatory ; 



Academic Royale des Sciences des Lettres et des Beaux- Arts ; 



French Minister of Public Works at the Exposition ; 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Emden ; severally transmitting publica- 

 tions. 



Royal Geological Society of Ireland ; 



K. Hof und Staatsbibliothek, Munich ; 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Bamberg; 



Statistical Society, London ; severally acknowledging receipt of publica- 

 tions. 



Mexican Commission at the Exposition, in reference to publications. 



Jno. Hitz, Consul-General, Switzerland, in reference to donations from 

 the Swiss Commission. 



Octoher. — La Society des Sciences de Finlande ; 

 L' Academic Royale Suedoise des Sciences de Stockholm ; 

 Schweizerische Gesellschaft fur d. gasammten Naturwissenschaften, Bern ; 

 Soci6t6 Zoologique de France ; 



Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Berlin ; severally transmitting publi- 

 cations. 



Canadian Institute ; 




CORRESPONDENCE. 403 



Yale College Library ; 



Mus6e Teyler, k Harlem ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



Soci6t6 Nationals des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg, in regard to 

 exchanges. 



Dr. Isaac Lea, giving duplicate copies of his works on conchology to the 

 Academy. 



Dr. Isaac Lea, accompanying specimens. 



Dr. Isaac Lea, in reference to depositing a meteorite, with analysis of the 

 same. 



Prof. Wentzel Gruber ; 



Prof. Alphonse Pinart; severally acknowledging election as correspondents. 



C. B. Dyer, in reference to the disposal of his collections. 



November. — Societa Toscana di Scienza Naturali, Pisa, in regard to ex- 

 change of publications. 



Prof. W. G. Farlow, Boston, asking for the loan of a specimen of iEcidium 

 pyratum. 



Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society, stating inability to supply 

 deficiencies. 



Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, transmitting photograph 

 of Professor Agassiz. 



E. A. Barber, acknowledging election as a member. 



A. A. Outerbridge. in behalf of Mr. Gilbert, of Demarara, in regard to 

 a collection of reptiles. 



Dr. R. M. Bertolet, in reference to depositing a collection of stone imple- 

 ments. 



December. — SenorCarvalho de Borges, Brazilian Minister, acknowledging 

 receipt of letter announcing the election of Dom Pedro II. as a corre- 

 spondent. 




404 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY 1876. 



Adams, A. Leith. On a Fossil Saurian Vertebra (Arctosaurus Osborni), 

 from the Arctic Regions. Dublin, 187.5. The Author. 



Adamson's Histoire Naturelle du Senegal, 1757. J. S. Phillips. 



Agardh, Jacobo Georgio. Species genera et ordinis Algarum. Vol. III. 

 Wilson Fund. 



Agassiz. L., large Photograph of. Alex. Agassiz. 



Aguas Potable de Mexico. Prof. Alfonso Herrera. 



Altum, Dr. Bernhard. Forstzoologie. I., 11., and 111. 1872-73. 1. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Annual Report of the Librarian of Congress for the year 1875. The Author. 



An Outline of Japanese Education, prepared for the Philadelphia Interna- 

 tional Exhibition 1876, by the Japanese Department of Education. 

 1876. The Japanese Commission. 



Bailey, L. W. and Edw. Jack. The Woods and Minerals of New Bruns- 

 wick. J. Laidlow. 



Bancroft, H. H. The Native Races of the Pacific States of North America. 

 Vol. V. New York, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bc'ircena, Mariano. Noticia Geologica de una parte del Estado del Aquas- 

 calientes. Mexico, 1876. The Author. ■ 



Baxter, J. H. Statistics, Medical and Anthropological, of the Provost>- 

 Marshal-General's Bureau. 2 Vols. Washington, 1875. The Author. 



Belleville, E. La Rage au Point de Vue Physiologique. The Author. 



Beutham, Geo. et J. D. Hooker. Genera Plantarum. Vol. II. Pars II. 

 Londini. 1876. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bernardino de Souza, C. F. Pard e Amazonas pelo encarregado dos Tra- 

 balhos ethnographicos. 3a Parte. The Brazilian Centennial Cora- 

 mission. 

 Lembrancas e Curiosidades do Valle do Amazonas. The Brizilian Cen- 

 tennial Commission. 



Bernstein, Julius. The Five Senses of Man. New York, 1876. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Berzelius, lithographic portrait of. Dr. J. Lindahl. 



Bianconi, G. La Theorie Darwinienne et la Creation dite Ind^pendante. 

 Review. The Author. 



Billings, E. Palaeozoic Fossils. Vol. I. and II. Part I. Geological Sur- 

 vey of Canada. 



Biukerd, A. D. Mammoth Cave, Kentucky. Cincinnati, 1869. John A. 

 Ryder. 



Binney's Terrestrial Mollusca. 3 vols. 4to. J. S. Phillips. 



Binuey, W. G. Notes on American Land Shells. Vol. 11. Part IV. The 

 Author. 



Blainville's .Manuel de Malacologie. 2 vols. 182.5. J. S. Phillips. 



Blanchard, E. Les Insectes. Nos. 1-4. Paris, 1876. 1. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Blanford, W. T. Eastern Persia. Vol. I. The Geography and Narra- 

 tives by Majors St. John Lovett, and Euan Smith, and an Introduc- 

 tion by Major-General Sir Frederic John Goldsmid. Vol. IL Zo- 

 ology and Geology, By W. T. Blandford. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 405 



Bleeker, P. Atlas Ichthyoloofique des Tndes Orientalcs Neerlamlaises. 



Livr. 28, 29, and W. Wilson Fund. 

 Blytt's Norges Flora. Christiania. 18G1-T4. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Bock, H. H. Kreiiter Buch. Strazburg. 1551. J. H. llcdfield. 

 Bois-Reymoud, Emil du. Gesainnielte Abhandluncren zur aligemeinen Mus- 



kel- und Nervenpliysik. ler Band. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bolton, H. Can-in ofton. Index to the Literature of Manganese, 1596 to 



1874. The Author. 



Borre, A. Preudhomme de. La Possibility de la Naturalisation de la Lep- 



tinotarsa decemlineata. Tiie Author. 

 Bosanquet, R. H. M. On a new form of Polariscope. The Author. 

 Botelho de Magalhajs, B. C. Theoria das Quantidades Negativas. The 



Brazilian Centennial Commission. 

 Botella y de Hornos, I). F. de. Descripcion Geologica-Minera de las Pro- 



vincias de ISlurcia y Albacete. Madrid, 1860. The Geological Sur- 

 vey of Spain. 

 Boucard, Adolphe. Monographic List of the Coleoptera of the Genus Plu- 



siotis of America, North of Panama. 

 Notes sur quelques Trochilides. 

 Notes sur les Trochilides du Mexique. 

 Catalogus Avium hucusque descriptorum. Londini, 1876. The 



Author. 

 Bouvier, A. Afrique Occidentale. Catalogue Gcographique des Oiseaux. 



Paris, 1875. The Author. 

 Bowcrbank, J. S. A Monograph of the British Spongiadas. Vols. L, II., 



and III. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bradley, F. H. Geological Chart of the United States. The Author. 

 Brandegee, T. S. The Flora of Southwestern Colorado. The Author. 

 Brauns^Dr. D. Der niittlere Jura in nordwestlicheu Deutschland. Cassel, 



1869. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Brazil. The Empire of Brazil at the Universal Exhibition of 1876, in 



Philadelphia. The Brazilian Commission. 

 Breve Noticia sobre a Provincia do Maranhao. The Brazilian Centennial 



Commission. 

 Brewer. W. H., Senero Watson, and Asa Gray. (ieol. Surv. Cal. Botany. 



Yol. I. Polypetalaj and Gamopetala;. Cambridge, 1876. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Brewster, Wm. Some Additional Light on the so-called Sterna Portlan- 



dica, Ridgway. The Author. 

 Briosi, Prof. Giovanni. Sulla Phytoptosi della Yita. Palermo, 1876. The 



Author. 

 Broun, II. G. Klassen und Ordnungen des Thier-Reichs, 6er Band I. Abth. 



1 Lief. II. Abth. 8, 9. 12. and 13 Lief. Y. Abth. 11 and 12 Lief. 7er 



Band Y. Abtheil 9 and 10 Lief. Wilson Fund. 

 Brown, Robert. The Races of Mankind. Four vols, in two. I. Y. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Bruhl, C. B. Zootomic aller Thierklassen. Atlas, Lief. 4 and 5. AVien. 



I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Brusina, Spiridione. Secoiido Saggio dalla Malacologia Adriatica. 

 Fossile Binnen-Mollusken aus Dalmatien, Kroaticn und Slavonien. 

 Contribuzione pella Fauna dci MoUuschi Dabnati. 

 Contribution a la Malacologie de la Croatie. The Author. 

 Bruylants, Gustave. Recberches sur les Hydrocarbures. Catholic Univer- 

 sity of Louvain. 

 Buchner,'Dr. L. A. Uber die Beziehungen der Chemie zur Rechtspflege, 



1875. The Author. 




406 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Buckley, S. B. Second Annual Report of the Geological and Agricultural 



Survey of 'i'exas. The Author. 

 Buonanni, Recreatione dell' Occhio, 1681. J. S. Phillips. 



Bursian. Dr. Conrad. tJber den religiosen Charakter des griechischen My- 



thos, 1875. The Author. 

 Button, F. T. List of the California Land and Marine Shells for exchange. 



Oakland, Cal. The Author. 

 Canimhoa, L. Relatorio sobre Zootechnia. The Brazilian Centennial 



Commission. 

 Caprou. Horace. Reports and Official Letters to the Kaitakushi, by Horace 



Caprou and his Foreign Assistants. Tokei, 1875. K. Kuroda. 

 Carpenter, Horace F. A Catalogue of the Shell Bearing Mollusca of Rhode 



Island. The Author. 

 Carpenter, Wm. B. Introduction to the Study of the Foraminifera. By 



Wm. B. Carpenter, assisted by Wm. K. Parker and T. Rupert Jones, 



I. Y. "Williamson Fund. 

 Castro, Don Manuel Fernandez de. ^tobatis Poeyii. Madrid, 1873. 



The Author. 

 Catalogue delle Conchiglie componenti la CoUezione Pigacci. Parte prima 



della Conchiglie vicenti. Roma, 18GG. T. A. Conrad. 

 Catalogue of H. C. Roeters van Lennep's Collection of Shells, 1876. The 



Publishers. 

 Catalogue of the West Virginia State Exhibit. "W". Virginia Centennial 



Commission. 

 Catalogue of the Chinese Imperial Maritime Customs Collection. Chinese 



Centennial Commission. 

 Catalogue of the Austrian Department, Philadelphia Centennial FiXhibitioa 



of 1876. The Commission. 

 Catalogue of recently added books, Library of Congress, 1873-75. The 



Librarian. 

 Catlow's Conchologist Nomenclator. Interleaved. 1845. J. S. Phillips. 

 Census of the Town of Madras, 1871. Madras, 1873. The Indian Govern- 

 ment. 

 Centennial Exhibition, Philadelphia, 1876. Dominion of Canada, Province 



of Ontario. Catalogue of Exhibits in Education Department, 1876. 



J. Laidlaw. 

 Educational Institutions. Province of Ontario. J. Laidlaw. 

 Chemins de Fer de la Province de St. Paul. Brezil, 1875. Brazilian Cen- 

 tennial Commission. 

 Clark, S. F. The Hydroids of the Pacific Coast of the United States, 



south of Vancouver Island. The Author. 

 Clark, AV. B. Mines and Mineral Statistics of New South Wales. N. S. 



AVales Centennial Commission. 

 Cole, Jas. E. The Mechanical Construction of Water. New York, 1876. 



The Author. 

 Conrad's New Fresh Water Shells. John S. Phillips. 

 Conrad's Uniouidaj. Vol. I. J. S. Phillips. 

 Conrad's American Marine Conchology, 1831. J. S. Phillips. 

 Conrad's Tertiary Fossils. J. S. Phillips. 



Cooke, M. C. Mycographia seu Icones Fungorum. Part I. AVilson Fund. 

 Cope, Edw. D. Article on Osteology. 



Descriptions of some vertebrate Remains from the Fort Union Beds of 



Montana. The Author. 

 On the supposed Carnivora of the Eocene of the Rocky Mountains. 



The Author. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 407 



Cortazar, Daniel de. Memorias de la Comision del Mapa Geologico de Es- 



pana. Descripcion de la Provincia de Cuenga. Madrid, 1875. The 



Author. 

 Descripcion fisica, geologica y Agrologica de la Provincia de CuenQa. 



The Geol. Survey of Spain. 

 Cotton Manufacture in the United States. J. S. Phillips. 

 Coutinho, J. M. da Silva. CacJio na Exposicao universal de 1867. The 



Brazilian Centennial Commission. 

 Cox, E. T. Seventh Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 



made during the year 1875. Indianapolis. 1876. G. M. Levette. 

 Cozzen's Geology of New York, 1843. J. S. Phillips. 

 Cr§pin, FranQois. Materiaux pour servir a I'Histoire des Roses. Troisi^me 



Ease. Gand, 1874-75. The Author. 

 Croft, Thomas. The Self-Propagating Nature of Centrifugal Force. Papeete, 



1875. The Author. 



Crosby, W. 0. Report on the Geological Map of Massachusetts. Boston, 



1876. The Author. 



Cuences Carbonifer de Asturias. Geol. Surv. of Spain. 



Curioser Botanicus, oder Sonderbahres Kriiuterbuch. Dresden and Lipzig, 



1745. Louis Godey through C. F. Parker. 

 Cuvier's Regne Animal. Twelve Numbers of Fishes and MoUusks. 3 



Vols. Mollusks and 2 Yols. Zoophytes. J. S. Phillips. 

 Cuvier's Legons d'Anatomie Compar6e. 2d Ed. 1837. J. S. Phillips. 

 Cyon, E. Methodik der Physiologischen Experimente und Yivisectionen. 



1 Yol. and atlas. 1. Y. "Williamson Fund. 

 DaCosta's Elements of Conchology. 1776. J. S. Phillips. 

 Dale, T. Nelson. A Study of the Rhaetic Strata of the Yal di Ledro in the 



Southern Tyrol. 1876. The Author. 

 Dana. Jas. D. Cephalization. Part Y. 'I'he Author. 

 Davila's Catalogue. Yol. I. J. S. Phillips. 

 Dawson, Geo. M. Report on the Geology and Resources of the Region in 



the vicinity of the 49th Parallel. ^Lontreal, 1875. Geol. Surv. of 



Canada. 

 Dawson, J. W. The Fossil Plants of the Devonian and Upper Silurian 



Formations of Canada. 1871. Geol. Survey of Canada. 

 Report on the Fossil Plants of the Lower Carboniferous and Millstone 



Grit Formations of Canada. 

 Figures and Descriptions of Canadian Organic Remains. Decades 2 to 



4. Geol. Survey of Canada. 

 Descriptive Notices of the Models. Maps, and Drawings collected under the 



Auspices of the Ministry of Public Works. M. Lavoinne. 

 Descriptive Catalogue of a collection of the Economic Minerals of Canada. 



J. Laidlow. 

 Detailed Census Returns of the Bombay Presidency. Part III. Bombay, 



1874. Indian Government. 

 Die Industrie des Klinigreichs Wurteniberg. Prag, 1873. The Author. 

 Dillwyn's Catalogue of Shells. Yols. 1 and 2. J. S. Phillips. 

 Donayre, D. Felipe Martin. Bosquejo de una Descripcion fisica y geologica 



de la Provincia de Zaragoza. The Geological Survey of Spain. 

 Douglass, J. "W. and John Scott. The British Hemiptera. Yol. 1. Hem- 



iptera-Heteroptera. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Drechsler, A. Der Arabische Himniels— Globus. Katalog der Sammlung 



des K. mathem-phys. Salons zu Dresden. Royal Museum at Dresden. 




408 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Duiiker unci Zitlel, Drs. Palseontographica ; 21er Band, 7e and 8e Lief.; 

 22er Band, 7e Lief.; 23er Baud, 8e and 9e Lief.; 24er Band. 2e 

 and 3e Lief, aud General Kegister, les Heft. Cassel, 187G. Wil- 

 son Fund. 



Ecole^dos Fonts et ChaussSes. Cours Preparatoires ; 

 Elfeves Externes ; 



Catalogue des Livres composant la Bibliothfeque ; 

 Catalogue des Modfelles, Instruments, &c. ; 

 Collection de Dessins; 

 Programmes de renseignement interieur. From M. Lavoinne. 



Edwards, A. Mead. The Microscope in Gynecology. Newark, 1875. 

 The Author, through Biol, and Micr. Section. 



Emerson, Geo. B. A Report on the Trees and Shrubs growing naturally in 

 the Forests of Massachusetts. Vols. 1 and 2. Second Edition. 

 Boston, 1875. I. V. AVilliamson ^und. 



Encyclopedia Methodique. Mollusca. Vols. 1 and 2. J.S.Phillips. 



Encyclopedia Britannica. Vols. III. and IV. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Engelniann, Geo. Notes on Agave. 



The Oaks of the United States. The Author. 



Erlenmeyer, Dr. E. Ueber den Einfluss des Freihern Justus von Liebig 

 auf die Entwicklung der reinen Cheniie. The Author. 



Esper's Pflanzenthiere. 179L J. S. Phillips. 



Faber, Carl. Der Bau der Iris. Leipzig, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Falkenberg, Dr. P. Vergleichende Uiitersuchungen iiber den Bau der 

 Vegetationsorgane der Monocotyledoneu. Stuttgart, 1876. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Featheratonhaugh, G. W. Geological Report of an examination made in 

 1834 of the elevated Country between the Missouri and Red Rivers. 

 8vo. Washington, 1835. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ferussac's Histoire Naturelle des MoUusques. 5 Vols. Folio. J. S. 

 Phillips. 



Fialho, Anfriso. Don Pedro II. Empereur du Br^sil. Notice Biograph- 

 ique. Bruxelles, 1876. The Brazilian Centennial Commission. 



Figuier, Louis. The Human Race. New York, 1872. Geo. W. Tyron, Jr. 



Fischer, M., et H. Crosse. Mission Scientifique au Mexique et dans I'Ame- 

 rique Centrale. Recherches Zoologique, 7me Partie. Eludes sur les 

 MoUusques terrestres et fiuviatiles. Paris, 1875. The Authors. 



Fitzingcr, L. J. Der Hund nnd seine Racen. le, 2e, and 3e Lief. Tubin- 

 gen, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Fleming's History of British Animals. 1842. J. S. Phillips. 



Foote, A.. E. The Naturalist's Agency Catalogue. Part First. Minerals. 

 The Author. 



Freiesleben, J. C. Geognostischer Bevtrag. 4 Volumes in Three. Frey- 

 berg, 1807. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Fries, E. Icones Selectai Hymenomycetum Hungarias. II. and III. Hun- 

 garian Academy of Sciences. 



Fromentel, E. Etudes sur les Microzoaires. 3me Ease Paris. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Galvani, L. Collezionc dellc Opere. 2 Vols. 4to. From Acad, of Sciences 

 of the Inst, of Bologna. 



Gastinet, Mr. Memoria sobre a cultura do Cafezciro no Yemen. The Bra- 

 zilian Centennial Commission. 



Geinitz, II. B. Die Urnenfelder von Strehlen und Grosscnhain. Royal 

 Museum at Dre.sden. 



Geinitz und Marck, Drs. Zur Gcologie von Sumatra. Royal Museum at 

 Dresden. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 409 



Geol. Surv. of Canada. Report of Progress 18G6 to 1875. 6 vols. 

 Gentry, T. G. Lifc-Histoiries of the Birds of Eastern Pennsylvania. Vol. 



I. Phila. 1876. The Author. 

 Gervais, Paul. Zoologie et Paleontologie G6n4rales. 2me S^rie. Livr's 



14, 15 and 16. Paris, 1876. Wilson Fund. 

 Giebel, C. G. Thesaurus Ornithologiae. 5er Halbband. Leipzig, 1876. 



1. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Gill, Theo. Arrangements of the Families of Mammals, Fishes, and Mol- 

 lusks. 3 copies of each. Smithsonian Institution. 



Gillmore, Parker. Prairie and Forest : a description of the Game of North 

 America. London, 1874. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Giudice, F. del. Dell Instiluzione de Pompieri. 



Universalita dei Mezzi di Previdenza, difesa e salvezza per la Calamita 

 degl' Incendi. Academy of Bologna. 



Goode, G. Brown. Classification of the Collection to illustrate the Animal 

 Eesources of the United States. Washington, 1876. The Author. 



Gould's Report on the Invertebrata of Massachusetts. J. S. Phillips. 



(jould. John. A Monograph of the Trogonidae. Parts III. and IV. Lon- 

 don. 1875. Wilson Fund. 

 The Birds of Asia. Parts 26 and 27. London, 1875. Wilson Fund. 

 The Birds of New Guinea and the adjacent Papuan Islands, including 

 any new species that may be discovered in Australia. Parts 1 and 



2. London, 1875-76. AVilson Fund. 



Gray's Conchology of the Voyage of the Blossom. J. S. Phillips. 

 Greeuhow's Oregon and California. 2d Ed. 1845. J. S. Phillips. 

 Grote, A. R. Check List of the Noctuidaj of America. North of Mexico. 

 I. Bombyciai and Noctuelitae (Nonfasciataj). Buffalo, 1875. The 

 Author. 

 Gruber. Dr. Wenzel. Monographie liber das Corpusculum triticeum. St. 



Petersburg, 1876. The Author. 

 Gumaelius. Otto. Om Malmgrens Aldersfoljd och deras Anvandande sasom 



ledlager. Geol. Surv. of Sweden. 

 Gunther, Albert. Description of the Living and Extinct Races of Gigantic 

 Land Tortoises. Parts I. and 11. 

 Contribution to the Anatomy of Hatteria (Rhynchocephalus, Owen). 

 Description of Ceratodus. The Author. 

 Gurney, J. H. Rambles of a Naturalist in Egypt and other Countries. 



London. Mrs. E. P. Gurney. 

 Guthrie's Universal Geography. London, 1795. J. S. Phillips. 

 Haeckel, Ernst. Die Perigenesis der Plastidule. Berlin, 1876. I. V. 

 AYilliamson Fund. 

 History of Creation. Vols. 1 and 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ziele und Wege der heutigeu Entwickelungsgeschichte. Jena, 1875. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Arabische Korallen. Berlin, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Haldeman's Fresh Water Univalve MoUusca. 2 Vols. 1842. J. S. 



Phillips. 

 Half Hours with Modern Scientists. Second Series. New Haven, 1873. 



John A. Ryder. 

 Hall, Chas. E. On Glacial Deposits in West Philadelphia. The Author. 

 Hanley, Sylvanus and Wm. Theobald. Coiichologia Indica. Part 8. Lon- 

 don. Wilson Fund. 

 Hanley's Young Conchologist. 1840. J. S. Phillips. 

 Harcus, Wm. South Australia : its history, resources, and productions. 

 Loudon, 1876. Samuel Davenport. 

 Same. Loriu Davenport. 

 27 




410 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Hartley, Walter Noel. Air in its relations to Life. I. Y. AVilliamson 



Fund. 

 Hartmanii, Dr. Robt. Die Nigritier. ler Theil. Berlin, 1876. T. V. 



AVilliamson Fund. 

 Haughton, Rev. Samuel. On the Tides of tlie Arctic Seas. The Author. 

 Hayden, F. V. Report of the United States Geological Survey of the 



Territories. Vols. IX. and X. Department of Interior. 

 Another Copy of Vol. IX. F. V. Hayden. 

 Annual Report of the United States Geological and Geographical 



Survey of the Territories for 1874-1876. Department of the Interior. 

 Hector, Jas. Geological Sketch. Map of New Zealand. The Author. 

 Heer, Oswald. Flora Fossilis Helvetiae. le Lief. Die Steinkohlenflora. 



Zurich, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hemsley, U. B. Handbook of Hardy Trees, Shrubs, and Herbaceous Plants. 



1873. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hess. W. Bilder aus dem Aquarium. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Heude. R. P. Conchyliologie Fluviatile de la Province de Nanking. 



Fasc. 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hewitson, Wm. C. Illustrations of Diurnal Lepidoptera. Parts IV. and 



VI. Lycenidffi. Wilson Fund. 

 Exotic Butterflies. Part 97, 98, and 99. London. Wilson Fund. 

 Hidalgo, J. G. Moluscos Marines de Espaiia, Portugal y las Baleares. 



Catalogo iconografico y descriptivo de los Moluscos, Terrestres de 



Espana, Portugal y las Baleares. 

 Moluscos del Viaje al Pacifico verificado de 1862 a 186.5 por una 



comision de Naturalistas enviada por el Gobierno Espahol. Parte 



Ira. 

 Univalves Terrestres. Madrid, 1869. The Author. 

 Higgins, Henry H. Synopsis of an arrangement of Invertebrate Animals 



in the Free Public Museum of Liverpool, with Introduction. 1874. 



The Author. 

 Higgins, Thos. Sponges: their Anatomy, Physiology, and Classification. 



H. H. Higgins. 

 Hofmann, Karl B. Lehrbuch der Zoochemie. les Heft. Wien, 1876. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Hooker, J. D. The Flora of British India. Part IV. London. The 



Author. 

 Hooker, Sir Wm. Jackson, and John G. Baker. Svnopsis Filicum. 



London; 1868. J. H. Rodfield. 

 Houston, Edwin J. The Elements of Physical Geography, for the use of 



Schools, Academies, and Colleges. Philadelphia, 1876. The Author. 

 Hoysradt, Lyman H. Catalogue of the Phasnogamous and Acrogenons 



Plants, growing without cultivation within five miles of Pine Plains, 



Duchess Co., N. Y. Torrey Botanical Club. 

 Hugo, M. le Comte Leo]iold. E.xtraits de deux lettres addressees a D. B. 



Boncompagni. The Author. 

 Hugo, Leopold. Astronomic g^om^trique. The Author. 

 Hummel, David. Sveriges Geologiska Undersukning Nos. 54, 5.5, 56. Om 



Svcriges Lagrade uberg jemforda med Sydvestra Europas. With 



Maps. Geol. Surv. of Sweden. 

 Hunt, T. Sterry. Chemical and Geological Essays. Boston, 1875. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Hutton. F. W., and G. H. F. Ulrich. Report on the Geology ami Gold 



Fields of Otago. Dunedin, 1875. 'I'he Author. 

 Huxley, 'I'. H. The Oceanic llydrozoa. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 411 



Icones Fossilium Sectiles. Pp. 1-4, and Plates I.-XIX. Mr. Davis of the 

 British Museum. 



Ingersoll, Ernest. Special Eeport on the Recent Mollusca of Colorado. 

 Department of Interior. 



Jackson, W. II. Photoi^raphs of the Principal points of interest in Colo- 

 rado, Wyomino-, Utah, Idaho, and Montana. From Negatives taken 

 in 1869, '70, '71. '72, '73. '74, '73. Folio, 1876. Dr. F. V. Haydon. 



Jan, Prof. Iconographie gen^rale des Ophidiens. 47nie Livr. Wilson 

 Fund. 



Jay's Catalogue of Shells. 3d ed. 1839. Same, 4th ed. 1850. J. S. 

 Phillips. 



Jeffreys, J. Gwyn. On some new and remarkable North Atlantic Brachi- 

 opoda. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Jenney, Waller P. The Mineral Wealth. Climate, and Rain-fall, and 

 Natural Resources of the Black Hills of Dakota. Department of 

 Interior. 



Johnson's New Universal Cyclopedia. Vols. II. and III. I. Y. William- 

 son Fund. 



Jolis, Auguste C. De la Redaction des Flores locales au point de vue de la 

 geographic botanique. The Author. 



Jordan, David Starr. Manual of Vertebrata of the Northern United States. 

 Chicago, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Jos6 de Franca, Bacharel Joaquin. Relatorio sobre a Pintura e Estatuaria. 

 The Brazilian Centennial Commission. 



Kerr, W^. C. Report of the Geological Survey of North Carolina. Vol. I. 

 1875. The Author. 



Kidder, J. H. Contributions to the Natural History of Kergulen Island. 

 II. Washington, 1876. The Author. 



Kiener's Species General ct Iconographie des Coquilles Yivantes. 8 vols. 

 J. S. Phillips. 



King, Clarence, and J. D. Hague. U. S. Geol. Explor. of the 40tli Parallel. 

 Mining Industry, by James D. Hague. With Geological Contri- 

 butions, by Clarence King. Washington, 1870. 1 vol. 4to. and folio 

 atlas. Eiig. Dept. U. S. A. 



Klein's Echinodermatum. Gedani, 1734. J. S. Phillips. 



Knauer, F. K. Fang der Amphibien und Reptilien und deren Conservirung 

 fiir Schulzwecke. Wien, 1875. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Beobachtungen an Reptilien und Amphibien in der Gefangenschaft. 



Wien, 1875. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Amphibien und Reptilienzucht. Wien, 1875. I. Y.Williamson Fund. 



Kobelt, Dr. AV. Rossmiissler's Iconographie der Europilischen Land und 

 Susswasser-Mollusken. lY. Band. 2-4 Lief. Wilson Fund. 



Koehler, August. Practical Botany. New York, 1H76. The Author. 



Kokscharow, Nikolai v. Materialien zur Mineralogie Ru.'^slands. Yol. XI. 

 pp. 345, to YII. 224. Atlas plates 83-87. "l. Y. Williamson Fund. 



KoUiker, Albert. Entwickelungsgeschichte des Menschen und der Iloheren 

 Thiere. Zweite Auflage, le Iliiifte. Leipzig, 1876. I. Y. AVilliam- 

 son Fund. 



Kramer, Franz. Phanerogamen Flora von Chemnitz und Ungegend. 1875. 

 The Author. 



Kuster, H. C. Systematisches Conchylien Cabinet von Martini und Chem- 

 nitz, ler Band, Heft 81 ; 2er Band, Heft 20; 3er Band, Heft 37; 

 4er Band, Heft 18, 19, and 20; 9er Band, Heft 31; 248e, 249e, 

 250e, 251e, and 252e Lief. Nurnberg, 1876. Wilson Fund. 



Lacordaire and Chapuis. Collection des Suites a Buffon. Tnsectes Col4op 

 tferes. Tome XII. Planches, 13 Livr. Wilson Fund. 




412 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Lamarck's Animaux sans Vertfebres. 2me ed., tome 5me, 8iiie, 1838. Same. 

 3me ed., tome 3me. 1844. J. S. Phillips. 



Lamarck's Species of Shells, 1843. J. S. Phillips. 



Lanza, Dr. Fr. Blementi di Mineralogia accompagnati da pratiche appli- 

 cazione ecouomiche industriali per uso del iunaisi e delle scuole 

 reali. 3d ed. Trieste, 1864. The Author. 

 Yiaggio in Inghilterra e nella Scozia. Trieste, 1860. The Author. 

 II progresso industriale Agronomico del Secolo applicato ai bisogni 

 patri con illustrazioui intercalate uel testo per il Prof. Dr. F. Lanza 

 de Casalanza. Trieste, 1870. The Author. 

 Deir Antico Palazzo di Diocleziana in Spalato. Trieste, 186.5. The 

 Author. 



Law, James. Priucipes de I'elevage des Animaux domestiques. The Au- 

 thor. 



Lawrence, Geo. N. Descriptions of Five New Species of American Birds. 

 Description of a New Species of Jay of the Genus Cyanocitta ; also of 



a supposed New Species of the Genus Cyanocorax. 

 Descriptions of four New Species of Birds from Costa Rica. 

 Descriptions of two New Species of Birds of the Families Tanagridae 

 and TyrannidiE. The Author. 



Lea, Isaac. A Catalogue of the published Works of Isaac Lea, LL.D. 

 Further Notes on Inclusions in Gems, etc. The Author. 



Lea's Contributions to Geology. J. S. Phillips. 



Naiades, etc., from Philosophical Transactions. 1 vol. 4to. J. S. 

 Phillips. 



Leakin, Geo. A, The Periodic Law. 12mo. New York, 1868. The 

 Author. 



Le Maout, Emm, and J. Decaisne. A General System of Botany. Trans- 

 lated and arranged by Mrs. Hooker and J. D. Hooker. London, 

 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Les Voyages d'Pitudes autour du Monde. Paris, 1876. The Author. 



Lesley, J. P. Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 1874, '75, '76. 

 Reports A, C, K, M. D, and I. The Commissioners. 



Letourneau, Chas. Bibliothfeque des Sciences Contemporaines. La Biologic. 

 Paris. 1876. I. V". Williamson Fund. 



Linnajus. lithographic portrait of. Dr. J. Lindahl. 



Little, Geo., 1st and 2d Reports of Progress of the Mineralogical, Geo- 

 logical, and Physical Survey of the State of Georgia, 1874-75. The 

 Author. 



Lockycr, J. Norman, and W. Chandler Roberts. On the Quantitative Ana- 

 lysis of Certain Alloys by means of the Spectroscope. The Author. 



Lommel, Dr. Eugene. 'J'he Nature of Light. New York, 1876. I. Y. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Lowe, Richard Thomas. A Manual of the Flora of Madeira. London, 

 1868. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Lucas, M. Felix. Etude Historique et Stalistique sur los Yoies de Com- 

 munication de la France. Paris, 1873. M. Lavoinne. 



Mackay, Angus. The Native Grasses. The Author. 



Maestre. Don Amalio. Descripcion Geologica industrial de la Cuenca Car- 

 bonifera de San Juan de las Abadessas en la Provincia de (Jerona. 

 Descripcion fisica y geologica de la Provincia de Sautander. The Geo- 

 logical Survey of Spain. 



Malezicux, M. Note sur les Elfeves exterues de I'Ecole des Pouts et Chaus- 

 s6es. M. Lavoinne. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 413 



Marrat. F. P. On the Variations of Sculpture exhibited in the Genus 



Nassa. George AV. Tryon, Jr. 

 Mastodon, four photographs of limbs and teeth of. C. TV. "Williamson. 

 Materials for the Geology of Russia. Vols. l-.*). 1869-73. St. Petersburg. 

 Marsh, 0. C. Notice of a new Sub-Order of Pterosauria. Notice of a new 

 Odontornithes. The Author. 

 Principal Characters of the Dinocerata. Part I. The Author. 

 Principal Characters of the Brontotheridae. On some Characters of the 

 genus Coryphodon, Owen. The Author. 

 Maury, W. F., and Wm. M. Fontaine. Resources of West Virginia. W. 



Virginia Centennial Commission. 

 McQuillen, J. H. Einfluss von Temperatur-Wechsel und Feuchtigkeit 

 auf die Zahne. 

 Ueber die Parasiten in der Mundhohle und in den Zahnen. 

 Ein Beitrag zur Chirurgie. 'I'he Author. 

 Introductory Lecture to the Winter Course of the Philadelphia Dental 



College, Session 1875-76. 1876. The Author. 

 Erofifnungs-Rede zum Winter-Semestre, 1875-76, am Philadelphia 

 Dental College. The Author. 

 Meehan. Thos. Are Insects any IVIaterial Aid to Plants in Fertilization ? 



The Author. 

 Meinicke, Dr. Carl E. Die Inscln des Stillen Oceans. 2er Theil. Leipzig, 



1876. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Menke's Synopsis Molluscorum. 1828. J. S. Phillips. 

 Metric System of Weights and Measures. The Authors. 

 Michigan. The State of Michigan. 



Catalogue of the Products of Michigan. 



Chart and Key of the Educational System of Michigan. Michigan 

 Centennial Commission. 

 Middendorfif. Dr. A. v. Sibirische Reise. Band IV., 27 Theil. St. Peters- 

 burg. 1875. Wilson Fund. 

 Miller, Phillip. The Second volume of the Gardener's Dictionary. 2d ed. 



London, 1740. Isaac Burk. 

 Milne Edwards, M. LeQons sur la Physiologie et 1' Anatomic compar^e de 

 I'Homme et des Animaux. 'i'ome ll,2e Partie. 1875. Wilson Fund. 

 Mitchell's New General Atlas, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Miscellaneous Pamphlets. Incomplete Volumes of Periodicals, etc. J. S. 



Phillips. 

 Miscellaneous Publications of the U. S. Geol. and Geogr. Surv. of Terri- 

 tories, No. 4. F. V. Hay den. 

 Mivart, St. George. Lessons from Nature, as manifested in Mind and Mat- 

 ter. New York, 1876. I.V.Williamson Fund. 

 MoUusca of the Voyage of the Sulphur. J. S. Phillips. 

 Montagu's Testacea Britannica, 1803. J. S. Phillips. 

 Monterosato, Msc. Di. Notizie intorno ai Solarii del Mediterranea. 

 Poche Note sulla Conchiglie Mediterranea. 



Notizie intorno alle Conchiglie fossile di Monte Pellegrino e Ficarozzi. 

 Nuova revista della Conchiglie Mediterranea. The Author, through 

 John B. King. 

 Moreira, Nicolau J. Brazilian Coffee. 



Historical Notes concerning vegetable fibres. From Brazilian Centen- 

 nial Commission. 

 Morelet's MoUusques du Portugal, 1845. J. S. Phillips. 

 Morton's Cretaceous Fossils of the United States. J. S. Phillips. 

 Mueller's Synopsis Testaceorum, J. S. Phillips. 




414 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



]\[ueller, Ferdinandus de. Fragmenta Pliytograpliise AustraliiB. Yols. 7, 8, 

 9. Melbourne, 1809-757 The Author. 

 Same. Parts 5 to 10. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



]\Iuller, Albert. Ueber das Auftreten der Wanderlieuschrecke am des 

 Bielersee's. The Author. 



Murray, Andrew. The Pines and Firs of Japan. London, 1863. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Netto, Dr. Ladislau. InvestigaQoes historicas e scientificas sobre o Mu- 

 seo Imperial e Nacional de Rio de Janeiro. The Brazilian Centen- 

 nial Commission. 



Neville, G. & H. Descriptions of new Marine MoUusca, from the Indian 

 Ocean. The Authors. 



Newberry, J. S. Report of the Exploring Expedition from Santa Fe, N. 

 M., to the junction of the Grand and Green Rivers of the Great 

 Colorado of the West in 18.59. With Geological Report. Washing- 

 ton, 1876. Eng. Dep., U. S. A. 

 Anothor copy. The Author. 



Report of the Geological Survey of Ohio. Vols. II. Geology and 

 Palseontology. Part II. Paleontology. Columbus, 1875. J. S. 

 Newberry. 

 The Structure and Relations of Dinichthys. Columbus, 1875. The 

 Author. 



Newcomb, Simon. Reports of Observations on the Total Eclipse of the 

 Sun, Aug. 7, 1869. 

 An Investigation of the Orbit of Uranus. Dr. F. A. Hassler. 



New South Wales. Mineral Map and General Statistics of New South 

 Wales. 

 New South Wales, its progress and resources. 



Official Catalogue of the natural and industrial products of New South 

 Wales, forwarded to the International Exhibition of 1876 at Phila- 

 delphia. N. S. Wales Centennial Commission. 



Notes on Portugal. By E. A. G. W. C. Stevenson. 



On the Forms "and Structure of the Atoms and Molecules of Bodies. 

 The Author. 



Orsoui, Francesco. Ricerche Elettro-Dinamische. Noto, 1876. The Au- 

 thor. 



Orton, James. Comparative Zoology. I. Y. AVilliamson Fund. 



Owen's Extinct Gigantic Sloth. 1842. J. S. Phillips. 



Fabst, G. Cryptogamen Flora Flechten und Pilze. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Packard, A. S. Our Common Insects. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Monograph of the Geometrid Moths. F. Y. Hayden. 



Paleoutologie Franqaise. 'id S^rie. Yegetaux. Terrain Jurassique. Livr. 

 20-21. Wilson Fund. 



Paran^i, 1875. The Brazilian Centennial Commission. 



Parkinson's Organic Remains. 3 Yols. 4to. J. S. Phillips. 



Peale, Franklin! Specimens of the Stone Age of the Human Race. Phila- 

 delphia. 1873. Titian R. Peale. 



Penna, D. S. F. Noticia geral das comarcas de Gurupfiemacapd. The Bra- 

 zilian Centennial Commission. 



Pfaff", Friedrich. Die Theorie Darwin's und die Thatsachen der Geologie. 

 Frankfurt-am-Main, 1876. Wilson Fund. 



Pfeiifer, L. Symbolac ad Historian! Pelicornm. 1841. J. S. Phillips. 

 Novitates conchologicaj. 48 and 49 Lief. Cassel. AVilson Fund. 

 Monographia Heliceorum viventium. Yol. 7. Fasc. HI. and lY., 1875. 

 VoL 8, Fasc. I. and II., 1876. Lipsoe. Wilson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 415 



Monographia Pneumonoporum Viventium. Supplementum Tertium. 



Fasc. I., altera. Cassellis, 1875. Wilson Fund. 

 Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition, 1876. Victoria, Australia. Official 



Catalogue of Exhibits. Essays, etc. Melbourne. 1876. J. H. Ryder. 

 Philippi's Abbildungen und Besclireibungen neuer oder wenig gekennter 



Conchylien. ler Band. 1845. J. S. Phillips. 

 Photograph of prepared Indian Head. Chas. S. Rand. 

 Pickerina-, Chas. The Geographical Distribution of Animals and Plants. 



Part II. Plants in their Wild State. 1876. The Author. 

 Pisani, M. F. Traits elementaire de Miueralogie. Paris, 1875. Wm. S. 



Yaux. 

 Piatt, Franklin. Second Geol. Surv. of Pennsylvania. Report of Progress 



in the Clearfield and Jefferson District of the Bituminous Coal Fields 



of Western Pennsylvania. 1875. The Commission. 

 Poey. Don Felipe. Enumeratio Piscium Cubensium. The Author. 

 Pow'ell. J. W. Dep. of Int. U. S. Geol. and Geog. Surv. of the Territories, 



2d Div. Report on the Geology of the Eastern Portion of the Uinta 



Mountains and region of country adjacent thereto. With Atlas. 



The Author. 

 Prado, Don Casiano de. Descripcion fisica y geologica de la Provincia de 



Madrid. The Geological Survey of Spain. 

 Prantl, Dr. K. Untersnchungen zur Morphologic der Gefiisskryptogamen. 



1 Heft. Die Hymenophyllaceen. Leipzig, 1875. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Raddius. Josephus. Plantarum Brasiliensium Nova Genera et Species 



Nova?, vel minus cognitaj. Florontiaj, 1825. J. H. Redfield. 

 Rafinescpie's Shells of the River Ohio, 1832. 2 copies. J. S. Phillips. 

 Ramsay, E. Purson. Catalogue of the Australian Accipitres. Sydney, 



1876. The Author. 

 Rang's Manuel. 12mo. Atlas, 1829. J.S.Phillips. 

 Rauber, A. Ueber die Stellung des Huhnchens im Entwicklungsplan. 



Leipzig, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Rau, Chas. Early Man in Europe. New York, 1876. I. Y. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Reeve, Lovell. Conchologia Iconica. Part 324-329. Wilson Fund. 

 Regel, E. Alliorum adliuc cognitorum ]\Ionographia. I. Y. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Reglement du College Sadika. Tunis. 1875. J. B. King. 

 Relham, Richardi, Flora Cantabrigiensis. Editio Tertia. 1820. John E. 



Cook. 

 Report of the Commission to Investigate Affairs at the Red Cloud Indian 



Agency, 1875. From the Department of tlie Interior. 

 Reports on the Meteorological. Magnetic, and other Observations of the 



Dominion of Canada, 1875. 'I"he Meteorological Office. 

 Reuisch. P. F. Contributiones ad Algologiain et Fungologiam. Yol. I. 



LipsiiE, 1875. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Riley. C. Y. Notes on the Yucca Borer. St. Louis, 1876. The Author. 

 Rio. Dr. i^fartinez del. El ilustre Doctre Louis. Noticia Biografica. The 



Author. 

 Robinson, Chas. New South Wales ; the oldest and richest of the Austra- 

 lian Colonies. N. S. Wales Centennial Commission. 

 Roehl, E. von. Fossile Flora der Steinkohlen-Formation Westphalens. 



Cassel. 1869. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Rolleston. Geo. Address to the Department of Anthropology (Biological 



Section) of the British Association. On the People of the Long 



Barrow Period. The Author. 




416 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Romiiiirer, C. Geol. Surv. of Michigan. Palaeontology, Fossil Corals. 



'New York, 1876. The Author. 

 Rossmiissler's Iconographie der Europiiischen Land uiul SUsswasser Mollus- 

 ken. IV. Band, le Lief. Wiesbaden. 187.5. Wilson Fund. 

 Iconographie der Land und Susswasser Mollusken, 1835. J. S. Phillips. 

 Rostafinski, J. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Lange. Heft I. Leipzig, 1875. 



B. Westernian & Co. 

 Russ, Dr. Karl. Die fremdlandischen Stubenvijgel. 4e Lief. Hannover, 



1876. I. V. AYilliamson Fund. 

 Rutimeyer, L. Ueber Pliocen und Eisperiode auf beiden seiten der Alpen. 



Basel, 1876. Wilson Fund. 

 Saldanha da Gama, Dr. Jose de. Apostillas para o estudo dos Systemas 

 cristallinos de Naumann escriptas. The Brazilian Centennial Com. 

 Notes in regard to some Textile Plants of Brazil. 



Catalogue of the Products of the Brazilian Forests. Brazilian Cen- 

 tennial Commission. 

 Saudberger, Dr. Die prahistorische Zeit im Maingebiete. The Author. 

 Sands, B. F. Reports of the Total Solar Eclipse of Dec. 22, 1870. U. S. 



Naval Observatory. Washington, 1871. Dr. F. A. Hassler. 

 Say's American Conchology. J. S. Phillips. 

 Schimper, W. Ph. Synopsis Muscorum Europseorum. Vols. 1 and 2. Edi- 



tio Secunda. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schlegel, H. Museum d'Histoire Naturelle des Pays-Bas. 12me Livr. 



1876. Wilson Fund. 

 Schmidt, A. Atlas der Diatomaceen-Kunde. les-lOes Heft. Ascherslaben, 



1875. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schmidt. H. D. Synopsis of the Principal facts elicited from a series of 



Microscopical Researches upon the Nervous 'I'issnes. The Author. 

 Schulz, D. Guillermo. Descripcion Geologica de la Provincia de Oviedo. 



The Geol. Survey of Spain. 

 Schlitzenberger, P. On Fermentation. New York, 1876. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Scudder, S. H. Extract from the Bulletin of the Geol. and Geogr. Survey 

 of Territories. Vol. II., No. 3. 

 A Cosmopolitan Butterfly. 

 Entomological Notes, V. 

 Synoptical Tables for determining N. A. Insects. Orthoptera. The 



Author. 

 Fossil Coleoptera of the Rocky Mountain Territories. 

 Fossil Orthoptera of the Rocky Mountain Territories. The Author. 

 New and Interesting Insects from the Carboniferous of Cape Breton. 

 The Author. 

 Secchi, P. Angelo. Sulla Relazione dei Fenomeni Meteorologici colle vari- 

 azion6 del Magnetismo terrestre. 2a Edizione. 

 Misura della Base trigonoraetrica esequita sulla Via Appia del P. A. 



Secchi. Rome, 1858. 

 Sul!a Grande Nebulosa di Orione. Firenze, 1868. 

 Studii intorno ai diametri Solari. Roma, 1874. 



Bulletino meteorologico dell' Osservatorio del Collogio Romo. Vols. 

 VI.-XVI. Roma, 1867-1875. Rev. Angelo Secchi. 

 Semper, Dr. C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. 2er Theil. Wissen- 

 schaftliche Resultate. 2er Band, X. Heft. 3er Band, III. Heft. 

 Wilson Fund. 

 Seven Topographical Maps of Brazil. The Brazilian Commission. 

 Sharp, R. B. Catalogue of the Birds in the British Museum. Vol. II. 

 Catalogue of Striges. London, 1875. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




AUDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 41 1 



Sibthorp, Johannes. Flora3 Grtccse Prodromns; sive plantarum omnium 



enumeratio quas in Provinciis aus Insulis Gra'ciaj. 2 vols. 8vo. 



Londini. 1813. John E. Cook. 

 Siebke, H. Enumeratio Insectorum Norvegicorum. Fasc II. University 



of Norway. 

 Simpson, J. H. Enp^ineer Depart. U. S. A. Report of Exploration across 



the Great Basin of the Territory of Utah in 1859. Washington, 



1876. The Department. 

 Smith, Geo. The Chaldean Account of Genesis. Now York, 187G. Ward 



B. Haseltine. 

 Souverbie, Dr. et R. P. Montrouzier. Description d'espfeces nouvelles de 



I'Archipel-Caledonien. The Authors. 

 Sowerby's Concholog-ical Illustrations. 1841. J. S. Phillips. 

 Sowerby's Thesaurus Conchyliorum. Parts l.-XI. J. S. Phillips. 

 Special Catalogue of the Mexican Section of the International Exhibition, 



187(5. The Mexican Commission. 

 Spencer, Herbert. The Study of Sociology. 

 Principles of Biology, 2 vols. 

 Principles of Psychology, 2 vols. 

 Essays, 1 vol. 



First Principles of Philosophy. 



Descriptive Sociology, Nos. I'and 2. I. Y.AVilliamson Fund. 

 Squier's Aboriginal Monuments. 1849. J. S. Phillips. 

 Sterne, C. Werden und Vergehen. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Stewart, Balfour. The Conservation of Energy. New York, 1874. J. A. 



Ryder. 

 St. John, O. Notes on the Geology of Northeastern New Mexico. De- 

 partment of Interior. 

 Another copy. Dr. Hayden. 

 Stoppani, I'Abbe Antoine. Paleontologie Lombarde. Livr. 51-53. Wil- 

 son Fund. 

 Strecker. Herman. Lepidoptera, Rhopaloceres, and Heteroceres, No. 13. 



Reading. The Author. 

 Stuart, James M. The History of Free Trade in Tuscany. London, 1876. 



The Cobden Club. 

 Sturm's Deutschlands Fauna. VI. Abth. Die AYurmer. 1-8 Heft. Nurn- 



berg, 1806. J. S. Phillips. 

 Supplement to Wood's Index Testaceologicus, 1828. J. S. Phillips. 

 Sutro, A. Five Pamphlets on the Sutro Tunnel. Adolph Sutro through 



W. H. Dougherty. 

 Lectures on Mines and Alining. 

 Report of the Commissioners and Evidence in regard to the Sutro 



'I'unnel. Washington, 1872. 

 The Bank of California against the Sutro Tunnel. 1874. A. Sutro, 



through Dr. Franklin Stewart. 

 Tatton, J. W. Plans of the Province of Nelson (New Zealand), showing 



the Mineral Deposits. Dr. James Hector. 

 Taunay, A. D'Escragnola. La Retraite de Laguna. Rio Janeiro, 1871. 



The Author. 

 Tavares, J. P. Memoria sobre a Sericicultura no Imperio do Brazil. The 



Brazilian Centennial Commission. 

 The Empire of Brazil at the Universal Exhibition of 1876 in Philadelphia. 



Same in German. Brazilian Centennial Commission. 

 The Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion. Part II. 



Vol. II. Surgical History. Washington. 1876. Surgeon General 



U. S. A. 




418 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



The Penny Cyclopedia. Parts 67 and 80. J. S. Phillips. 

 The Photographs of the Cohoes Mastodon. Kev. Jas. Hall. 

 Thompson, 0. G. Skaudinaviens Hymenoptera. 4e Delen. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Thorpe's British Marine Conchology. 1844. J. S. Phillips. 

 Todaro, Augnstino. Hortus Botanicus Panormitanus. Folio Tract, IBT.*). 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Topinard, Dr. Paul. Bibliothfeque des Sciences Contemporaines. L'Anthro- 



pologie. Paris, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Tornebohm, A. E. Geognostisk Beskrifuiug ofver Persbergets Grufvet'Ult. 



Geol. Surv. of Sweden. 

 Trabalhos da commissao Scientifica de ExploraQas. Introducgao, Seccao Bo- 



tanica, lo Folheto. The Brazilian Centennial Commission. 

 Trafford, F. W. C. Amphiorama ou la Vue du Monde. Lausanne, 1875. 



The Author. 

 Tremaux, P. Principe Universel du Mouveraent et des Actions de la Ma- 



tifere. The Author. 

 Troschel, F. H. Das Gebissder Schnecken. 2en Bandes, 4e Lief. Berlin, 



1875. Wilson Fund. 



Turton's Conchological Dictionary. 1819. J.S.Phillips. 



U. S. International Centennial Exhibition of 1876. Catalogue of the Arti- 

 cles and Objects Exhibited by the U. S. Navy Department. 1876. 

 The Navy Department. 



Van Beneden, P. J. Animal Parasites and Messmates. New York, 1876. 

 Wilson Fund. 



Van Lennep, H. C. Roeter. Catalogue Alphabetique des Cones. B. 

 Westerman & Co. 



Vilanova y Piera. D. Juan. Essayo de Descripcion geognostica de la Pro- 

 vincia de Foruel. The Geol. Survey of Spain. 



Vodges, A. W. A Monograph of American Trilobites. Part I. The Au- 

 thor. 



Vollenhoven. S. C. Snellen van. Pinacographia. Part 2. Afl. 2. Part 3, 

 Afl. 3. 'S. Gravenhage, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wallace, A. R. 'I'he Geographical Distribution of Animals. 2 vols. 

 London, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wareg-Massalski, Urbain. Eecherches sur les Acides Chloro-Bromo-Pro- 

 pioniques Glyceriques. Lovain, 1875. Cath. Univ. of Louvain. 



Wedekund, Dr. Ludwig. Studien ira Biniiren AVerthgebiet. Carisruhe, 



1876. The Author. 



Wheeler, Geo. M. Annual Report u])on the Geographical Explorations and 



Surveys West of the lOOth Mer. in California, Nevada. Nebraska, 



Utah, Arizona, Colorado, Now Mexico, Wyoming, and Montana. 



1875. Washington. The Autlior. 

 Same. Report. Vol. III. Geology. Vol. V. Zoology. Engineer 



Department, U. S. A. 

 Whitney, Henry M. The Hawaiian Guide Book. John A. Ryder. 

 Wiedersheim, Robt. Salamandrina perspicillata und Geoiriton fuscus. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Wilder, Burt G. Note on the development and homologies of the Anterior 



lirain-Mass in Sharks and Skates. The Author. 

 Williamson, Wm. C. On Recent Foraminifera of Great Britain. I. V. 



Williamson Fnnd. 

 Wilson's American Orriithology. Vols. 1-3, Svo. Phildelphia, 1828. J. 



S. Phillips. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 419 



Wisconsin, the State of. 



Normal School System of Wisconsin. 

 College of Wisconsin. 



History of Education in Wisconsin. Wisconsin Centennial Com. 

 Wood's Index Testaceologicus, 1828. J. S. Phillips. 



AVorthen, A. H. Geol. Surv. of Illinois. Vol. VI. Geology and Palaeon- 

 tology. 1875. The Director. 

 Wulsten, Carl. The Silver Region of the Sierra Mojada. Denver, 1876. 



The Author. 

 Wundt, Wilhelm. Ueber den Einfluss der Philosophic auf die Erfahrungs- 



wissenschaften. Leipzig, 1876. Wilson Fund. 

 Zacharias, Dr. Otto. Zur Entwicklungstheorie. Jena, 1876. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Zittel, Karl A. Handbuch der Palaiontologie. 1 Band, 1 Lief. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 

 Fauna der Aeltern Cephalopoden Fuehreu den Tithoubildungen. Text 

 and Atlas. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



NORWAY AND SWEDEN. 



Christiania. Nvt Magazin for Naturvidenskaberne. 21de Binds, 1 and 2 

 Hefte, 18"75. 

 Fordhandlinger i Videnskabs-Selskabet i Christiania, Aar 1874. Uni- 

 versity of Norway. 

 Stockholm. KongJiga Svenska Vetenskaps-Akademiens Handlingar. Ny 

 Fcilid. Bandet 0-12. 1870-73. 

 Ofversigt of the same. 28-32. 1871-7.0. 

 Bihang of the same. Vols. 1 and 2 ; Vol. 3. Hiifte I. 

 liefnardsteckningar of the same. Band 1. Heft 3. The Society. 

 Troudhjem. Det K. Norske Videnskabers Selskabs Skrifter i det 19de. 

 Aashundrede. 187.0. 

 Aarsberetning, for 187-4. The Society. 



DENMARK. 



Copenhagen. M{»moires de I'Acad^mic Royale do Copenhagen, ome Serie. 



Classe des Sciences. Vol XI.. No. 2 ; Vol. XII., No 2. The Society. 

 Oversigt over der K. D. Videnskabernes Selskabs Forhaudlinger. 1874, 



No. 3 ; 187.0. No. 1. 'I'he Society. 

 Memoires of the same. 5me Serie. Vol. X., Nos. 1-9; Vol. XL, No. 



1 ; Vol. XII., No. 1. The Society. 

 Videnskabelige Meddelelser fra Naturhistorisk Forening, 1874 and 



1875. The Society. 



RUSSIA. 



Dorpat. Sitzungsberichte der Dorpater Naturforscher Gesellschaft. 4er 

 Band, ler Heft, 1875. The Society. 

 Archiv flir die Naturkunde Liv-Ehst- und Kurlands. Herausgegeben 

 von der Dorpater Naturforscher Gesellschaft. 2e S6rie. 5er Band. 



1876. The Society. 



Helsingfors. Bidrag till Kannedom af Finlands Natur och Folk utgifna af 

 Finska Vetenskaps Societeten. Tjugondefjerde Huftet. 1875. 

 Ofversigt of the same. XVII. 1874-75. 




420 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Observations Meteorologiques publi^es par la Societe des Sciences de 



Finland. Ann6e 1875. The Society. 

 Acta Societatis Scientiarum Fennicse. Tome X. 1875. The Society. 

 Moscow. Bulletin de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou. 



Aunee 1875, Nos. 1-4. The Society. 

 St. Petersburg. Tableau G6n6ral methodique et alphabdtique des Matiferes 



contenues dans les publications de I'Acad. Imp. des Sciences. Ire 



Partie, 1872. The Society. ' * 



Bulletin of the same. Tome XX., No. 3, to tome XXL, No. 5, inc. 

 Memoirs of the same. Tomes XXII., Nos. 4 to 10 ; tome XXIII., 



No. 1. The Society. 

 Verhandlungen der Kaiserlichen Gesellschaft fiir die gesammte Miner- 



alogie. Jahrg. 1862 and 1863. 2e Series, ler-Ser Band, 1867- 



1874. The Society. 

 Kepertorium fiir Meteorologie. Herausg. von der K. Akad. der Wissen. 



Band V., Heft. 1. 1876. The Society. 

 Annaleu des Physikalischen Central Observatoriunis. Jahrgang 1874. 



The Observatory. 



HOLLAND. 



Amsterdam. Yerslagen en Mededeelingen der K. Akademie van AVeten- 



schappen. Afd. Natuurk. Ueel XV. ; Tweede Reeks, Deel VIII. and 



IX. Afd. Letterk. Tweede Peeks. Deel IV. 

 Jaarboek, 1873 and '74. 



Catalogus van de Boekerij, len Deels, le Stuk. 

 Processen- Verbal. Afd. Naturerk, 1873-75. 

 Verhandelingen. 14 and 15 Deel. Afd. Letterk. 8e Deel. The 



Society. 

 Haarlem. Naturkundige Verhandlingen der Hollandsche Maatschappij der 



Wetenschappen. 3de Verz. Deel IL, Nos. 3 and 4, 1874. The 



Society. 

 Archives N6erlandaises. Vol. X., Livr. 4 and 5 ; Vol. XL. Ire Livr. 



1875-76. The Society. 

 Archives du Mus6e Teyler. Vols. 1 and 2, Vol. 4, Fasc. ler, 1867-76. 



The Society. 

 Leiden. Annalen der Sternwarte in Leiden, 4er Band, 1875. The Obser- 

 vatory. 

 Utrecht. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Jaarboek voor 1871. Uitgegeven 



door het K. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut. 23er Jahrg. 2e 



Deel. 1875. The Institute. 



GERMANY. 



Augsburg. Dreiundzwanzigster Bericht des naturhistorischen Vereins in 

 Augsburg, 1875. The Society. 



Bamberg. L^eber das Bestehen und Wirken des naturforschenden Vereins. 

 2er-4er Bericht 1854-59. 

 Fiinfter, Ncuuter und Zehnter Bericht der naturforschenden Gesells- 

 chaft, 1860-61, 1870-74. The Society. 



Berlin. Monatsbcricht der K. P. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin. 

 Juli, 1875-Juli, 1876, inc. The Society. 

 Mathematische Abhandlungen der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu 

 Berlin. Aus dem Jahrc 1874 and 1875. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 421 



Sitznngs-Bericbte der Gesellschaft naturforschender Freunde zu Berlin. 



Jahrg 1875. The Society. 

 Monatsclirift des Vereines zur Befordernng des Garteubaucs. 18 Jahrg. 



Jan.-Dec. 1875. Katalog der Bibliothek. 1875. The Society. 

 Botanischer Jahresbericht. Herausgegebeu von Dr. Leopold Just. 



2er Jahrg. le-3e Abth., 1874. I."V. AVillianison Fund.^ 

 Zeitschrift der Deutschen geologischen Gesellschaft. XXVII., 2-4 

 * Heft XXVIII., 1 Heft, 1876. The Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir die gesammten Naturwissenchaften. Neue Folge, Band 



XI. and XII. The Editor. 

 Archiv fur Naturgeschichte. 39er Jahrg. 5er Heft, 41er Jahrg. 3er, 



and 4er Heft. 42er Jahrg, ler Heft, 1876. The editor. 

 Deutsche entomologische Zeitschrift, 1875, 2e3 Heft; 1876, les Heft. 

 The Publishing Society. 

 Bonn. Verhandlungen des naturhistorischen Vereins der Prcussichen 

 Rheinlande and Westphalens. 31 er and 32er Jahrg. 1874. The 

 Society. 

 Archiv fur mikroskopiscbe Anatomie, 12er Band, les-4es Heft. 13er 

 Band, les Heft, 1876. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologie. 8er Band, 3es-9er Band, 3es 



Vierteljahrshaft. I. V. "Williamson Fund. 

 Bremen. Abhandlungen herausgegeben von naturwissenschaftlichen Ve- 

 reine zu Bremen. 4 Bd., 4 Heft ; 5 Bd., 1 Heft. Beilage No. 5. 

 The Society. 

 XIX. Jahres-Bericht des Schwedischen heilgyranastichen Institutes, 

 1876. The Director. 

 Brunn. Verhandlungen des naturforschenden Vereins in Briinn. XIII. 



Band, 1874. Ratal, der Bibl. The Society. 

 Buda Pest. A Magyar 'I'udomanyos Akad^mia Ertesitoje. Hetodik Evfo- 

 lyam 8 Szam ; Nyolezadik Evfolyam, 17 Szam, 1873-75. 

 M. Tudom. Akad. Almanach, 1864-76. 

 Mathematikai es 'I'ermeszettudonianyi Kozlemenyek vonatkozolag a 



hazai viszonyokra. VII.-X. Kotet, 1869-72. 

 Ertekezesek a Mathematikai Tudomanyok Kor^bol. II. Kbtet, 3 Szam ; 



VI. Kotet, 6 Szam. 

 Jegyzeke a M. Tud. Akad. altat kiadott Konyveknek jclentekenyen 



leszallitott Arakon, 1875. 

 Nev-6s Targymutato a M. Tud. Akad. Ertesetii j6nek, I. VIII., 1867-74. 

 A. M. T. Akad. Evkonyvei XIV. Kotet, IV. and V. Darab. 

 Cassel. Malakozoologische Bliitter. Bd. 22. Bg. 13 et seq., Bd. 23, Bg. 1 



and 2, pp. 33-144. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Chemnitz. Funfter Bericht der naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft, 1875. 



The Society. 

 Danzig. Schriften der naturforschenden Gesellschaft. Neue Folge. Sen 



Bandes, 4es Heft. The Society. 

 Darmstadt. Notizblatt des Vereius fiir Erdkunde. I.-III. Jahrg, inc. 



The Society. 

 Dresden. Sitzungs Berichte der naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft Isis 

 in Dresden. Jahrg. 1875. The Society. 

 Nova Acta Academia; Cajsarea3 Leopoldino-Carolina; Germanics Naturae 



Curiosorum. Tome 37. 1875. The Society. 

 Leopoldina. lOes Heft, 1874. The Society. 



Mittheilungen aus dem K. zoologischen Museum. 1 Heft, Royal 

 Museum at Dresden. 




422 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Mittheilungen liber die Sammlung der K. mathem-physikalischen Sa- 

 lons. Royal Museum at Dresden. 

 XII. Jahresbericht des Vereins f lir Erdkunde, 187.^. The Society. 

 Emden. 61er Jahresbericht der naturtbrscheiiden Gesellschaft, 1875. 



Kleine Schriften of the same. XVII. Hannover. The Society. 

 Erlangen. Sitzungsberichte der physikalisch-medicinischer Societiit. 7 



Heft, 1875. The Society. 

 Frankfurt a M. Jahrsbericht uber die Verwaltung des Medicinal wesens 

 Stadt Frankfurt a M. Herausgegebeu von dem ajrztliclien Verein. 

 XVIII. Jahrg. 1874. The Society. 

 Der Zoologische Garten. XVI. Jahrg. No. 7, 1875. No. 6, 1876. 



XVII. Jahrg. Nos. 1-6. The Society. 

 Bericht uber die Senckenbergische naturforschende Gesellschaft, 1873- 



75. The Society. 

 Abhandlungen, herausgegebeu von der Senckenbergischen naturfors- 

 chenden Gesellschaft. 9er Band, 3es and 4es Heft, 1874-5. lOer 

 Band, 1-4 Heft, 1876. The Society. 

 Freiburg. Berichte uber die Verhandlungen der naturforschenden Gesell- 

 schaft. Bd. VI. Heft 4, 1876. 'I'he Society. 

 Gottingen. Nachrichten von der K. Gescll. der VVissenschaften und der 



Georg-Augusts-Universitats aus dem Jahre 1S75. 'i'he Society. 

 Hamburg. Verhandlungen des Vereins fiir naturwissenschaftliche Qnter- 

 haltung. 1875, II. Band. The Society. 

 Journal des Museum Godefifroy. Hefts IX., XI., and XII. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Heidelberg. Verhandlungen des naturhistorisch-medicinischen Vereins. 



Neue Folge. ler Band, 3es Heft, 1876. The Society. 

 Jena. Jenaisehe Zeitschrift fiir Naturwissenschaft. Vols. 8, 9. and 10. 



The Society. 

 Kijuigsberg. Schriften der physikalisch-okonomischen Gesellschaft zu Ko- 

 nigsbcrg. 14er Jalirg. 1 and 2 Abth. loer Jahrg. 1 and 2 Abth., 

 1873-74. The Society. 

 Leipzig. Abhandlungen der math.-phys. Classe der K. Sachsichen Gesell- 

 schaft der Wissenschaften. X. Band, No. 7. XI. Band No. 5, 

 1874-75. 

 Bericht uber die Verhandlungen of the same. Math.-physische Classe 



1873, III. 1875, I. The Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir Anatomie und Entwickelungsgeschichte. les Band 3es- 



6es Heft. 2es Band. 1 and 2 Heft, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Archiv fiir Anatomie. Physiologie und wissenchaftliche Medicin. Jahrg. 



1875. Heft III.-VL, 1876. I.-III. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Morphologische Jahrbuch. Von Carl Gegenbaur. ler Band 3 and 4es 

 Heft, 1875. 2er Bandcs and 2es Heft, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Preisschriften gekont und herausgegebeu von der Flirstlich Jablonowski- 



schen Gesellschaft. XVIII. 1875. The Society. 

 Zeitschrift fur wissenschaftliche Zoologie. 25er Band, 2 and 3, and 

 Supplementheft. 26er Band 2es-4es Heft ; 27er Band, les-3es Heft. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal fur Ornithologie. 23 Jahrg. Heft. I.-II. I.V.Williamson 



Fund. 

 Jahrbiicher der wissenschaftliche Botanik. lOcr Band, 3es Heft, 1876. 

 I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Luneberg. Jahreshefte des naturwissenschtlichen Vereins fiir das Fiirsten- 



thum Luneburg. VI. 1872-73. 'I'lie Society. 

 Luxembourg. Publications de I'lnstitut Royal Grand Ducal de Luxem- 

 bourg. Tome XV. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 423 



Mannheim. 36er-39er Jaliresbericht der Mannheimer Yereins flir Natur- 



kunde, 1870-76. The Society. 

 Marburg. Schriften der Gesellschat't zur Beforderung der gesammten Natur- 

 wissenscliaften zu Marburg. Band 10. l'2e Abth. 

 Supplement. Heft I. zu Band X. Sitzungsbericlit. Jalirg. 1874—75. 

 The Society. 

 Metz. Bulletin de la Societe d'llistoire Naturelle du Department de la 

 Moselle. 5e-10e. 13e. Cahier, 1848-1874. The Society. 

 Memoires de TAcademie de Metz. oSe Annee, 1873-74. The Society. 

 Miiuchen. Sitzungsberichte der niathematisch-physikal. Classe der K. B. 

 Akad. der Wisseuchaften zu Miinchen, 1874, Heft III. ; 1875, Heft 

 I. and III. 

 Abhandlungen der historischen Classe of the Same. 12er Bandes, 3e 



Abth. ; 13er Bandes. 2e Abth. The Society. 

 Annaleu der K. Sternwarte bei Miinchen. XX Band. The Observa- 

 tory. 

 Almanach der K. B. Academic der Wissenschaften fiir das Jahr, 187G. 

 The Society. 

 Xeubrandenburg. Archiv des Yereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in 



Meklenburg. 29 Jahrg., 1875. The Society. 

 Passau. Zehnter Bericht des naturhistorischen Yereins in Passau fiir 



die Jahre 1871 bis 1874-1875. The Society. 

 Prague. Astronomische, magnetische, und meteorologische Beobachtungen 

 an der K. K. Sternwarte zu Prag im Jahre 1875. The Observatory. 

 Regensburg, Flora. Herausgegeben von der K. B. botan. Gesellschaft, 



1875. The Society. 

 Stettin. FiUtomologische Zeitung. Herausgegeben von dem entomolo- 



gischen Yereine zu Stettin. 36er Jahrg., 1875. The Society. 

 Stuttgart. "VVurttembergisches naturwissenschaftliche Jahreshefte. 22er 

 Jahrg. The Editors. 

 Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologie, und Palajontologie. Jahrg 

 1875, 7es-9es Heft ; 1876, les-3es Heft. The p]ditor. 

 Wien. Sitzungberichte der K. Akademie der "Wissenschaften. Mathemat. 

 naturwissen. Classe. 70 Band, le Abth. III., lY., ur.d Y. Heft; 

 2e Abth. III., lY., und Y. Heft; 3e Abth. III., lY.. und Y. Heft; 

 71 Band, le Abth. I. und Y. Heft ; 2e Abth. l.-Y. Heft ; 3e Abth. 

 I. und II. Heft. 

 Denkschriften of the same. 34er Band, 1875. The Society. 

 Yerhandlungen der K. K. geologischen Reichsanstalt. Nos. 1-18. 1875. 

 Jahrbuch of the same, 1875. 25 Band, Nos. 3 and 4 ; 26 Band, Nos. 



1 and 2. 

 Abhandlungen of the same. YI. Band, 2 Heft ; YIII. Band, 3 Heft, 



1875. The Society. 

 Festschrift zur Feier des fUnfundzwanzigjahrigen Bestehens der K. K. 



zoologisch-botanischen Gesellschaft in Wien, 1876. The Society. 

 Yerhandlungen of the same. 25er Band. The Society. 

 Schriften des Yereines zur Yerbreitung naturwissenschaftlicher Kennt- 

 niss in Wein. 14er Band, 1873-74; 16er Band, 1875-76. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Mittheilungen der anthropologischen Gesellschaft in "Wein. YI. Band, 

 Nos. 1-4. The Society. 

 "W'urzburg. Arbeiten aus dem zoologisch-zootomischen Institut zu "S\'urz- 

 burg. 2er Band, 2-4 Heft, 1875; 3er Band, les Heft. I. Y. "Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Yerhandlungen der physikal-medicin Gesellschaft in WUrzburg. Neue 

 Folge, 9 Band, 1-4 Heft; 10 Band, 1-2 Heft, 1876. The Society. 




424 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



SWITZERLAND. 



Yerliandlungen der Schweizerischen naturforschenden Gesellschaft. 



57 uiid 58 Jahrsversaniinlung. 1873-75. The Society. 

 Basel. Memoires de la Societe Paleontologique Suisse. Yol. II. (1875.) 



I. Y. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Yerhandlungen der naturforschendea Gesellschaft in Basel. 6er Theil, 



2es Heft. 1875. The Society. 

 Bern. Mittheilungeu der naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Bern aus dem 



Jahren. 1874-75. The Society. 

 Geafeve. Bibliothfeque Universelles et Revue Suisse. Archives des Sci- 

 ences Physiques et Naturelles. Xos. 85, 88, 94, 135, 136, 157-168. 



1865-71. The Editor. 

 Memoires de la Societe de Physique et de d'Histoire Xaturelle. Tome 



XXIY., le Partie, 1874^75. The Society. 

 Lausanne. Bulletin de la Sociele Yaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Xos. 



44. 45. 46. 48, 75 and 76. 1859-1876. The Society. 

 Xeuchatel. Bulletin de la Society des Sciences Xatureiles. Tome X., 2d 



Cahier, 1875. The Society. 

 St. Gallen. Bericht liber die Thatigkeit der St. Gallischen naturwissen- 



schaftlichen Gesellschaft wahrend des Yereinsjahres, 1874-75. 



BELGIUM. 



Bruxelles. Bulletins de I'Academie Royal des Sciences, des Lettres et des 



Beaux Arts de Belgique. 2me Serie. Tomes 38, 39, and 40, 1874-75. 



Memoires couronues et autres Memoires. Collection in 8vo. Tomes 



24, 25, and 26. Collection in 4to. Tome 39, 1876. Ire Partie. 

 Memoires. Tome 41. Pts. 1 and 2, 1875-76. 

 Annuaire, 1875 and 1876. The Society. 

 Aunales de la Societe .Malacologique de Belgique. Tomes 1-4 and 8, 



and Tome 9, Fasc. 1 ; Tomes lime, 17me. and 18me. 

 Compte Rendu of the same. Serie II., Xos. 16-30. The Society. 

 Procfe.s-Yerbaux des Seances of the same. Tomes 3, 4, and 5. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Liege. Memoires de la Society Royale des Sciences de Li6ge. Tome 14me, 



1859. The Society. 

 Lourain. Society litteraire de I'Universite Catholique de Louvain Choixde 

 Memoires X., 1869. 

 Annuaire of the same. 1840. 1844-46, 1850, 1851, 1875, and 1876. 

 Twenty-eight Theses. The University. 

 Mens. Memoires et Publications de la Snci6t6 des Sciences, des Arts et des 

 Lettres du Huinaut, 1857-60 and 1870. The Society. 



FRANCE. 



Amiens. Society Linneenne du Xord de la France. Xos. 1-42. 1872-75. 



Mimoircs of the same. Annees 1866-69, 1872-73. 'J'he Society. 

 Angers. Memoires de la Societe Acad6mique de Maine-et-Loire. Tomes 



29-32. 1874-75. The Society. 

 Auxerrc. Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences Historiques et Naturelles de 



I'Yonne. Ann6e 1875. Tables Analytiques, 1875-76. The Society. 

 BesanQon. Academic des Sciences. Belles Lettres et Arts. Stances pub- 



liques de 1874-75. The Society. 

 Bordeaux. Memoires de la Soci6t6 des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles. 



Tome X. Title, index, etc. Tome 1, 2e Serie, 2e Cahier, 1876. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 425 



Extrait des Proc^s-Terbeaux des Stances, 1874-5, pp. 13-28. The 



Society. 

 Caen. Memoires de I'Academie Xatiouale des Sciences, Arts et Belles- 



Lettres. 1864. 186.i, 1869. 1872-75. The Society. 

 Cherbourg. Memoires de la Society Nationale des Sciences Naturelles. 



Tome 19, 1875. The Society. 

 Lyons. Annales de la Society Linneenne. Tomes 21 and 22.- 1874 and 1875. 



The Society. 

 Annales de la Soci4t6 d' Agriculture, Histoire Xaturelle et Arts Utiles. 



4me S4rie, Tome 6me and 7me. 1873-74. The Society. 

 Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. 



Classe des Lettres. Tomes 8 and 16. Paris, 1859-74. The Society. 

 Xancy. Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences de Xancy. Serie II., Tome I., 



6e Anuee, 1873, Fasc. III.; Tome II., Fasc. IV. Paris, 1676. 



The Society. 

 Orleans. Memoires de la Societe d'Ae^riculture. Sciences, Belles-Lettres et 



Arts d'Orleans. Vols. 1-9; Vol. 10, I.; Vol. 11, IV.; Vol, 12, III, 



and IV.: Vol. 13, IIL; Vol. 15. I.-IV. ; Vol. 16, I.-IV. ; Vol. 17, 



Xo. 4; Vol. 18. Xos. 1 and 2, 1876. The Society. 

 Paris. Comptes Reiidus des Seances et Memoires de la Societe de Biologic. 



4me Serie, Tomes II.-V. ; 5me Serie, Tome 1-3, 1867-73. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Comptes Rendus hebdomadaires des Stances de I'Academie des Sciences. 



Tomes 57-78. Juillet, 1865, Juin, 1874. Tables Generales, 1851-65. 



The Society. 

 Supplement to the same. The Society. 

 Nouvelles Archives du Museum. Tome lOme, Xos. 1-4. Paris, 1874. 



The Society. 

 Bulletin de la Societe Zoologique de France. Ire Partie, Ire Ann6e. 



The Society. 

 Bulletin de la Societ6 Botanique de France. Tome 21rae, 1874. pp, 



1-117; 22me, 1875, Xos. 1, 2, and 3. Revue Bibl., B.-E. Tome 



23me, 1. The Society. 

 Bulletin de la Societe Geologique de France. 2me Serie, Tome Bme, 



1850, to 3rae S6rie, Tome 4me, Xo. 2, 1876. 

 Lists of the members of the same. The Society. 

 Annales des Sciences Xaturelles. 6me Serie. Zoologie. Tome II., Xo, 



1-6; Tome III., Xos. 1-4; Tome IV., Xo. 3. Botanique, Tome I., 



Xos. 4-6 ; Tome II.. Xos. 1-6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Annales des Sciences Geologiques. Tome 6me, Cahier, 2me ; Tome 



7me, ler Cahier. The Editors. 

 Annales des Mines. 7me S§rie, Tome IX., Ire. Minister of Public 



Works, France. 

 Archives de Zoologie Experimentale. Tome 4me, Xos. 3 and 4 ; Tome 



5me, Xo. 1, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal de Zoologie, par M. Paul Gervais. Tome IV., Xos. 5 and 6 ; 



Tome v., Xos. 1-4. I. V, Williamson Fund. 

 Bulletin Mensuel de la Society d'Acclimatation. 3e S6rie, Tome II., 



Xos. 5-12 ; Tome III., Xos. 1-9. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. 3e S6rie, Tome XV., Xos. 3 and 4 ; Tome 



XVI., Xos. 1 and 2. 

 Revue Scientifique. 5me Annee, 2e Serie, Xos. 20-51 ; 6me Ann6e, 



Xos. 1-20. The Editors. 

 Toulouse. Bulletin de la Societe d'Histoire Xaturelles. 9me Annee, 1874- 



75. The Society. 

 28 




426 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



M^moires de rAcademie des Sciences, etc. Tome VII., Tme Serie, 

 1875. The Society. 



ITALY. 



Bologna. Rendiconto delle Sessioni dell' Academia delle Scienze dell' Is- 



tituto di Bologna, 1850-51 to 1872-74. Nov! Comnieiitarii. Vols. 



1-10, 1834-1849. Memorie. Vols. I.-XII , 1850-1861 ; Serie III., 



Tomo II., Fasc. 3-4; Tomo V., Fasc. IV. The Society. 

 Cagnola. Atti delta Fondazione Scientifica Cagnola. Vol. VI , Parte I. 



1872. The Society. 

 Catania. Atti dell' Academia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali di Catania. 



Serie 3, 'I'omes VI. and IX. The Society. 

 Lucca. Atti della Reale Academia Lucchese di Scienze Lettere ed Arti. 



Tomes I., II., IV , XII., XIV., XVI., and two supplementary vol- 

 umes, 1845 and 1861. The Society. 

 Milan. R. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Atti, Vol. 1, 



Fasc. 11-20, 1858-60. 

 Memorie, Vols. L-V., Vol. XII., Fasc. 6; Vol. XIII.. Fasc 1. 

 Rendiconti. Serie IL. Vol. VL, Fasc. 6-20 ; Vol. VII., Fasc. 1-16 ; 



Series III., Vol. IV., Fasc. 7. The Society. 

 Atti della Societt^ Italiana di Scienze Naturali. Vols. XVI., Fasc. 3 



and 4, 1874. The Society. 

 Naples. Atti del Reale Istituto d'Incoraggiamento alle Scienze Naturali 



economiclie e technologiche. Seconda Serie, Tom. II. and IV. 1865 



and '67. Tome VIII., Ft. 1, 1871. The Society. 

 Dei Lavori Accademici del R. I.*tituto d'Incoraggiamento alle Scienze 



Natural!, etc., de nell' Anno 1875. The Society. 

 Societa Reale di Napoli. Atti dell' Accademia delle Scienze Fisiche e 



Matbematiche. Vol. V., 1873. Rendiconto, Vols. 9, 10, 11, 1870- 



72. The Society. 

 Pisa. Atti della Societil Toscano di Scienzes Naturali. Vol. 1, Fasc. 1 and 



2, 1875. The Society. 

 Torino. BoUetino Meteorologico ed Astronomic© del Regio Osservatorio 



della Regia Universita. Anno VIII., 1875. The Society. 

 Atti della R. Accademia delle Scienze. Vol. X., Disp. la-8a, 1874- 



75. The Society. 

 Trieste. BoUettino della Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali. Nos. 1 and 



6. Annata II.. 1876. The Society. 

 Venezia. Atti del Reale Instituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. 



Serie 5, Tome I., Disp. 1-6 ; Tome II., Disp. 6-iO ; Tomo III. The 



Society. 



SPAIN. 



Madrid. Anuario del Observatorio de Madrid, Ano XI., XII.. XIII., XIV. 

 Observacioncs Meteorologicas elcctuadas en el Observatorio de Madrid, 



1870-73. 

 Resumen de las Observaciones Meteorologicas cfectuadas en la Penin- 

 sula, 1870-73. The Observatory. 



GREAT BRITAIN. 



Belfast. Proceedings of the Belfast Natural History and Philosophical 

 Society, for the .session 1874-75. The Society. 

 Annual Report and Proceedings of the Belfast Naturalist's Field Club. 

 1874-76. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 427 



Dublin. Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy. Vol. 24. Antiquities 

 Part 9 ; Science Vol. 24, Part 14 to Vol. 2f), Part 20. 1870-7.O. 

 Proceedings of the same. Vol. I., Ser. II.. Nos. 1, 3-10, Vol. II Ser 



II., Nos. 1, 2, and 3, 1869-7.5. The Society. 

 Journal of the Royal Dublin Society. No. 44, Vol. VII., 1875. The 



Society. 

 Journal of the Royal Geological Society of Ireland. Vol. IV., Part 



2. 187.5. The Society. 

 Proceedings of the Dublin University Biological Association. Vol. I. 

 187.5. Tiie Society. 

 Edinburgh. Proceedings'of the Royal Society of Edinbugh, Session 1874- 

 75. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. 27. Pt. 3. The Society. 

 Transactions and Proceedings of the Botanical Society. Vol. XII 

 Part 2. 1875. The Society. 

 Glasgow. Proceedings of the Philosophical Society of Glasgow, 1875-7G. 



Vol. X.. No. 1. The Society. 

 Leeds. Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society. Annual Reports for 



1850-51. 1866-67, and 1874-75. The Society. 

 Liverpool. Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Liver- 

 pool, No. 29, 1875. The Society. 

 Secoud Supplement to the Catalogue of the Liverpool Free Public 

 Library. Reference Department, 1876. The Library. 

 London. Proceedings of the Zoological Society, 1832-36,'l840, 1843 and 

 1844. John S. Phillips. 

 Same. 1864. Pt. 3 ; 1871, Pts. 2 and 3; 1875, Pt. 2 to 1876, Part 3. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. 9, Pts. 1, 5-9. The Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society. Vol. 20,' Nos. 1-6. 



'J'he Society. 

 Journal of the Chemical Society. Aug. 1875. to Jan. 1876. The Society. 

 List of Officers and Fellows of the same. The Society. 

 The (Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. 27, Part 2 and 



Vol. 29. Part 4 to Vol. 32, Part 3. 'i'he Society. 

 The Journal of the Linnean Society. Vol. XV., Nos. 81-8-4, Botany 



Vol. XII., Xos. 60-63. Zoology. 

 Additions to Liiirary, 1874-75. 

 Proceedings, 1874- "^5. 



Transactions. Second Series, Botany, Vol. I., Parts 2 and 3: Zooloo-v 

 Vol. I., Parts 2 and 3. °'^' 



General Inde.x to Transactions. Vols. 26 to .30. The Society. 

 The Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland 



Vol. VIII., Part I. and II. 'J'he Society. 

 Paheontographical Society. Vol. 29. Issued for 1875. Wil.son Fund. 

 The Journal of the Society of Arts. Vol. 23, 1875. The Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal' Institution of Great Britain. Vols.'VII., 

 ^ Parts V. and VI. 1875. The Society. 

 The Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and 



Ireland. Xos. 1-15. London. 1875-76. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 



Ornithological Miscellany. Edited by Geo. Dawson Rowl'ey. Part 1 



No. 2, and Part 2. No! 2. Parts 3 and 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. ' 



London. ?:dinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. 4th series. 



Vol. 50, Nos. 333 and 334. 5th series, Vol. 1, Nos. 2-11. I. V. 



"Williamson I^ind. 



The Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. Vol. X.. Parts 2 3 and 4- 



Vol. XL, Part L . , • , 




428 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



The Journal of Botany, British and Foreign. Nos. 155-166. I. V. 

 "Williamson Fund. 



Curtis's Botanical Magazine. 3d Series. Nos. 373-382. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



The Geological Magazine. Nos. 137-148. I. Y. AYilliamson Fund. 



The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Nos. 96-107. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



The Gardener's Chronicle. Nos. 98-102-105-150. The Editor. 



Nature. Nos. 307, 316-318, 321-346, 348-367. The Editor. 



Hardsvicke's Science Gossip, 1875. Nos. 131-142. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



The Popular Science Review. Nos. 58-61. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



The Ibis. 3d Series, Vol. 5, Nos. 20, 21, and 22. July. 



Notes and Queries. 5th Series, Parts 22-34. The Editor. 



Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science. New Series, Nos. 61-64, 

 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



The Monthly Microscopical Journal. Nos. 84-95. I. Y. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Zoological Record. Yol. XI., 1874. Wilson Fund. 



The Geological Record for 1874. I. Y. AYilliamson Fund. 



Trlibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 113-118. 

 The Publishers. 

 Manchester. Twenty-fourth Annual Report of the Manchester Free Libra- 

 ries, 1875-76. The Trustees. 

 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Natural History Transactions of Northumberland 



and Durham. Yol. 5, Part II., 1875. The Society. 

 Watford. Natural History Society, 1876. List of Members, etc. 



Transactions of same. Yol. I., Part 2, 1875. The Society. 



UNITED STATES. 



Albany. Transactions of the Albany Institute. Yols. YII. and YIII., 

 1876. 

 Proceedings of the same. Yol. I. and Yol. II., Part 1. The Society. 

 University Convocation, 1873^1874. Trustees of the Universitj'. 

 57th Report of the N. Y. State Librarv, 1875. 



26th Report of the N. Y. State Museum of Natural History, 1872. 

 The Trustees of the University. 

 Baltimore. Procceedings of the Maryland Academy of Sciences. May 3, 

 1876. Newspaper slip. Edw. Stabler, Jr. 

 First Annual Report of the Provost of the Peabody Inst, of Baltimore, 



1857. The Institute. 

 Ninth Annual Report of same, 1876. 

 Buffalo. Bulletin of the Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences. A'ol. III. 



Nos. 2 and 3, 1876. The Society. 

 Boston. Memoirs of the Boston Society of Natural History. 



Proceedings of the same. Yol. 18, Parts I.-III., pp. 129-336. The 



Society. 

 The American Naturalist. Yol. X., Nos. 2-11. 



Proceedings of the American Pharmaceutical Association, 1875. The 

 Society. 

 Cambridge. Bulletin of the IMuseum of Comparative Zoology. Yol. I., 

 Nos. 3, 4, 7, and 8; Yol. III., Nos. 11-16, 1876. 

 Memoirs of the same. Yol. lY., Nos. 9-10, 1876. 

 Illustrated Catalogue of the same. No. YIII. The Director. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 429 



Ninth Annual Eeport of the Trustees of the Peabody Museum of 



American Archaeology and Ethnology. 18TG. The Trustees. 

 Quarterly Journal of the Nuttall Ornithological Club. Vol. 1, Xos. 



1-4. The Society. 

 Psyche. Vol. 1, No. 22. The Editor. 

 Chicago. Engineering News. Vol. III., No. 3. 



Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Chicago Academy of Sciences, 



1875. The Society. 

 Cincinnati. Proceedings of the Cincinnati Society of Natural History. 



No. 1, Jan. 1876. The Society. 

 Same. Charles Pury. 

 Davenport. Proceedings of the Davenport Academy of Natural Sciences. 



Vol. I., 1867-1876. D. S. Sheldon. 

 Same. The Society. 

 Hanover. Botanical Bulletin. Vol. I., Nos. 3-12 ; Vol. II., No. 1. The 



Editor. 

 Hartford. Fancier's Journal. Vol. 3, Nos. 3-24. The Editor. 

 Lansing. First published Transactions of the Lansing Scientific Associa- 

 tion, Nov. 187.5. The Society. 

 Milwaukee. Jahresliericht des naturhistorischen Vereins von "Wisconsin 



fiir das Jahr 1876. The Society. 

 New Haven. 'l"he American Journal of Science and Arts, Dec. 1875. 



Vol. X., No. 60 ; Vol. XL. Nos. 61-71. The Editor. 

 Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. 



III., Part I., 1876. The Society. 

 New York. Proceedings of the American Geographical and Statistical 



Society. Vol. I., No. 2, to Vol. II., No. 4. 

 Journal of the same. Vol. II.. Part 2, and Vols. III.-VL, No. 4. 

 Bulletin of the same from 1856 to 1874. No. 1, 187.5-6. 

 Annual Record of Science and Industry, 1871-1874. I. V. AVilliam- 



son Fund. 

 The Popular Science Monthly. Nos. 46-56. The Editor. 

 The American Chemist. Vol. 6, Nos. 4-12; Vol. VII., Nos. 1 and 2. 



The Editor. 

 Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club. Vol. VI., Nos. 3-22. 



Supi)lement to Botanical Dictionary, 1876. The Society. 

 New York Medical Journal. A"ol. 22, No. 6 ; Vol. 23, Nos. 1-6 ; Vol 



24, Nos. 1-5. The Editor. 

 Philadelphia Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Part III 



1875. Part. I. and II., 1876. Publication Committee. 

 Journal of the same. Vols. 1-6. 8vo. Bequeathed by John S. Phil 



lips. 

 Transactions of the American Entomological Society. Vol. 3, No, 



Vol. 4, Nos. 3 and 4; Vol. 5, pp. 1-176. The Society. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 14, No. 95; 



Vol. 16, No. 97, 1876. The Society. 

 Memoirs of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Vol. XII. The 



Society. 

 The American Journal of Medical Sciences. Nos. 141-144. The Edi- 

 tor. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy. Vol. 47, No. 12 to Vol. 48, No. 11. 



The Editor. 

 The Medical News and Library. Vol. 33, No. 396 : Vol. 34, Nos. 397 



to 407. The Editor. 




430 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



The Dental Cosmos. Yol. VI.,Nos. 10 and 12; Yol. YIL. Xo. 8; 

 Yol. X., No. 3; Yol. XYIL, No. 12, to Vol. XYllL, No. 11. The 

 Editor. 

 The Penn Monthly. A^ol. YL, No. 72, to Yol. YII., No. 83. The Edi- 

 tor. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Yol. 17. No. 12. to Yol. 18, No. 11. 

 The Journal of the Franklin Institute. The Editor. 

 The Polytechnic Review. Yol. 1, No. 1. 

 Poughkeepsie. Proceeding's of the Poughkeepsie Society of Natural 



Science. Yol. 1, Fasc. 1, 2. and 3. The Society. 

 Salem. Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of 

 Science. 24th Meeting, 1876. 

 Memoirs, I., 1875. The Association. 

 Memoirs of the Peabody Academy of Science. Yol. I., No. lY., 1875. 



The Society. 

 Historical Collections of the Essex Institute. Yol. YL, Nos. 5 and 6, 

 to end of Yol. IX.; Yol. X., Parts 2 and 3; Yol. XL, Part I. to 

 Yol. XIII. , Part II., 1864-76. Memoires of Henry Coit Perkins 

 and Francis Peabody, anfl an Address by A. C. Godell, Jr. The 

 Society. 

 Bulletin of the Essex Institute. Yol. 7, Nos. 6-12 ; Yol. 8, Nos. 1 and 

 2. The Society. 

 San Francisco. Proceedings of the California Academy of Sciences. Yol. 



Y.. Part 3. 1874. The Society. 

 St. Louis. The Transactions of the Academy of Sciences of St. Louis. 

 Yol. III., No. 3, 1876. The Society. 

 The AVestern. New Series. Yol. 1, No. 12 ; Yol. II., Nos. 1, 2. The 

 Editor. 

 Toledo. Ohio. The Scientific Monthly. Yol. 1, Nos. 6, 10, and 12. The 



Editor. 

 Troy. Proceedings of the Semi-Centennial Celebration of the Rensselaer 



Polytechnic Institute. Troy, 1824-74. The Institute. 

 Washington. Bulletin of the United States Geological and Geographical 

 Survey of the Territories. Yol. IL, Nos. 1-4. 2d Series. Nos. 1, 

 2, 5, 6. Department of Interior. 

 Same. Yol II. , No. 4; No. 2, 2d Series. F. Y. Hayden. ^ 

 Descriptive Catalogue of the Photographs of the United States Geo- 

 logical Survey of the Territories. 2d Edition, 1875. Department 

 of the Interior. 

 Bulletin of the United States National Museum. Nos. 1, 4, and 5. 



Department of the Interior. 

 Field and Forest. Yol. IL, No. 5. 1876. The Editor. 

 Quarterly Report of the Chief of Bureau of Statistics. Nos. 3 and 4, 



1875 ; Nos. 3 and 4, 1876. Treasury Department. 

 Report of the Commissioner of Education for the year 1874. The 



Department of the Interior. 

 Circular of Information of the Bureau of Education. Nos. 7 and 8, 



1875. Department of Interior. 

 Monthly Report of the Department of Agriculture for October, 1876. 



The Department. 

 Report of the Chief of Engineers, 1875. Parts 1 and 2. War De- 

 partment. 

 Report of the Commission to Investigate Affairs at the Red Cloud 

 Indian Agency, 1875. Department of Interior. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 431 



Worcester. Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society. Nos. G5 

 and 66, 1876. 

 Transactions. Vols. 5 and 6. The Society. 



CANADA. 



Halifax. Proceedings and Transactions of the Nova Scotian Institute of 



Natural Sciences. Vol. 11. Dr. Honeyman. 

 Same. Vol. II.. Part IV. ; Vol. III., Part IV.. 1869-74. Purchased. 

 London, Ca. 'I'he Canadian Entomologist. Vol. VII., Nos. 11 and 12; 



Vol. VIII., Nos. 1-10, 1876. The Editor. 

 Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist. New Series. Vol. VII., Nos. 7 and 



8 ; Vol. VIII., No. 2. The Editor. 

 The Canadian Antiquarian. Vol. IV., No. 3 ; Vol. V., Nos. 1 and 2, 



1876. 'J'he Editors. 

 Quebec. Le Nafuraliste Cauadien. Vol. 7, Nos. 11 and 12; Vol. 8. Nos. 



10. The Editor. 

 Toronto. The Canadian Journal of Science, Literature, and History. Vol. 



XIV., No. .5 ; Vol. XV., Nos. 1. 2. '3. The Editor. 

 Annual Report of the Entomological Society of Ontario, 1875. The 



Society. 



MEXICO. 



Mexico. La Naturaleza. Tomo III., Nos. 17, 18, 19, 1875-76. The Edi- 

 tor. 



Nueva Farmacopea Mexicana de la Sociedad farmaceutica di Mexico, 

 1874. Prof. A. Herrera. 



Five numbers of the Gaceta Medica de Mexico, 1866 and 1867. Prof. 

 Alfonso Herrera. 



SOUTH AMERICA. 



Rio de Janeiro. Archives do Museo Nacional do Rio de Janeiro. Vol. 1, 

 lo Tremestre. 1876. The Society. 



Revista do Istituto Polyteohnico Brasileiro. Tomo 1. Nos. 1 and 2 ; 

 Tomo 2, No. 2; Tomo 3 and 4. The Brazilian Centennial Commis- 

 sion. 



Archives da Palestra Scientifica do Rio de Janeiro. Vol. I., 1858. 

 Brazilian Centennial Commission. 



AFRICA. 



Alexandria. Society Kediviale de Geographic. Statuts et Discours par G. 

 Schweinfurth, 1875. The Society. 



ASIA. 



Calcutta. Proceedings of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. Nos. 6 and 10, 



1875. 

 Journal of the same. Part I., Nos. 2-4, 1875. Part II., Nos. 1-3, 



and extra number. 1875. Isaac Lea. 

 Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. 8vo. Vol. XL, Pt. 2. 

 Records of the same. Vol. Vlll., Parts 1-4, 1875, and Vol. IX., Part 



1, 1876. 




432 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Memoirs of the same. 4to. Paljeontoloo'ia Indica. Ser IX., 4, 1875. 

 Jurassic Fauna of Kutch. Vol. I., 2 and 3. The Survey. 

 Yokohama. Transactions of the Asiatic Society of Japan. From 13th 

 Jan. 1875, to 30th June, 1875. The Society. 



AUSTRALIA. 



Brisbane. The Queenslander. Vol. X. New Series, Xo. 12, 1875. A. 

 Mackay. 



Tasmania. Monthly Notices of Papers and Proceedings of the Poyal So- 

 ciety of Tasmania for 1874. 'i'he Society. 



NEW ZEALAND. 



"Wellington. Transactions and Proceedings of the New Zealand Institute, 

 1875. Vol. VIII. The Society. 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



433 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Abies 173 



Acer 328 



Achfenodou 65 



Acbatina 185 



Achatinella 185 



Acipenser 53 



Acma?a 239, 246, 247 



Adocus : 258 



^giale 148 



^116 308 



Aglaja 180 



Aglaopheuia 231 



Agave 142 



Akebia 194 



Alcitboj 286, 289 



Allorisma 31 



Amastra 186 



Amauropsis 296 



Ambloctonus 65 



Amia 52 



Ammonites 278 



Amoeba 198 



Amoria 287, 291 



Amoriana 287 



Ampelopsis 332 



Ampbibulima 191 



Ampbiuma. . .■ 354 



Anagallis 158 



Aiiaptomorphus 88 



Aucbura 275, 298 



Ancistromosus 240, 246, 247 



Anguilla 52 



Auomia 319 



Anoplotbeiium 65 



Antbnnya 311 



Antbreuus 195 



Apatite 99, 120 



Apex 185 



Apbiodina 274 



Aporrbais 299 



Ara}i»cerus 271 



Area 316 



Arcella 54 



Arcbiiectonica 298 



Arctia 151 



Arena 275 



Argiope 201 



Ariolimax 185 



Arionta 189 



Asineops 66 



Astynax 336 



Atapbrus 303 



Atbleta 291 



Aublysodon 248, 340 



Aucbenia 146 



Augite 120 



Avilica 286, 288 



Auriculella 185 



Aurinia 286, 288, 290 



Ausoba 286, 288 



Axincpa 315, 317 



Axopbyllum 28 



Bacnlites 318 



Baena 258 



Balanus 273 



Barite 156 



Barringtonia 169 



Bassaricyon 20 



Bassaris 20 



Batbmodon 65 



Baubinia 331 



Belemnozipbius 81 



Belleropbon 33 



Beryl 39 



Binueya 185 



Biota 203 



Biotite 119 



Bivonia 303 



BoussingaiiUite 264 



Breviarca 315 



Brookite 37 



Broussonetia 203, 328 



Bruebns 268, 269, 271 



Browallia 13 



Buliinella 185 



Bulimulus 190 



Butalis 271 



Busycon 278 285 




434 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Calamodon 39 



Calaudra 268, 270, 271 



Calcite 61, 98 



Callista 274 



Callipara 286, 287, 288 



Callocvstitcs 28 



Calyce'lla 210, 217 



Canielus 146 



Campanula 142 



Campanularia 210, 218 



Cauiptonectes 318 



Caracoliis 188 



Carcbarias 52 



Carcharodon 80, 86, 114 



Cardium 309 



Carelia 185 



Carpinus 382 



Carva 202 



Catalpa 3^0 



Catillus 278 



Ceutrarchus 68 



Centropyxis 57 



Cerasus 328 



Ceratodus 52, 259 



Ceratoptera 86 



ChjEtetes 27 



Chfetostomus 339 



Champsosaurus 348, 349 



Chclydra 257 



Chemuitzia 281 



Chimera 53 



Chiolite 45 



Chiromys 88 



Chiton 243 



Chlorite 119 



Chlorosina 286 



Chonezipliius 81 



Cluysanthemum 109 



Chrvsoberyl 102 



Chrysolite 102 



Ciclila 68 



Cichlasoma 335 



Cionodon 250, 253 



Claytonia 84 



Clepsydrops 350 



Closia 287 



Cliipea 66 



Clytia 210, 212 



Collisella 247 



CoUiselliua 247 



Colomba 274 



Cohmibite 39 



Compsemys 257 



Conosaurus 113 



Conulnria 33 



Coppinia 210, 217 



Coriicaria 271 



Corundum 98 



Coryphodon 65 



Cosmia 152 



Cossus 151 



Crassatella 275, 310 



Cricotus 350 



Crvptorhytis 282 



Cu'cullsea" 309 



Cyanite 100 



Cyclotomodon 113 



Cylindrella 191 



Cvmatophora 151 



Cvmbiola 286, 288 



Cymbium 286, 287, 288 



Cymbophora 306 



Cyprimcria 308 



Cyrtoceras 33 



Daubrelite 87 



Deweylite 100 



Diabantite 120 



Diabase 120 



Diatrvma 11, 65 



Diclonius 253, 254 



Dicopis 152 



Diffluiria 115 



Dinoziphius 80 



Diphasia 210, 219 



Discnidea 323 



Dolomite 60 



Dolerite 60, 119 



Dosiniopsis 274 



Drillia 280 



Dysganus 250, 266 



Eboroziphius 81 



Ela?olite 99 



Elasmosaurus 256 



Emery 99 



Enreta 286, 290 



Enchodus 266, 348 



Endoptygma 302 



Epeira 201 



Ephestia 271 



Epsomite 265, 334 



Ersatis 201 



Ericusa 286 



Esthonyx 39 



Euclea 153 



Eudcndrium 211, 218, 233 



Euiilyplia 55 



Euomplialus 32, 301 



I Euxcnitc 87 



Exilia 278 



Exilifusus 278 



Exogvra 323 



Fagus 328 



Fasciolaria 282, 289 



Felis 20 



I Ficulopsis 291, 294 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



435 



Ficus 294 



Flonrite 99 



Formica 198 



Fnl-roraiia 286, 287, 289 



Fusus 278 



Ggeotis 191 



Gari 307 



Garnet 37, 82, 102 



Gastornis 65 



Gevserite 265 



Globicephalus 129 



Glvptostoma 190 



Goliius 335 



Goniaster 178 



Gonothyrea 210, 211, 215 



Grampus 129 



Granocardium 310 



Gryplunea 322 



Gymnocladus 329 



Gyrodes 295 



Gyrotropis 300 



Hadrosaurus 253 



Halecium 210, 217 



Halloysite 140 



Halve! vstus 235 



Haniites 278 



Haplothrpeus 274 



Haploscaplia 273 



Harpella 286 



Harpula 286, 288 



Hedera 332 



Hedronchus 259 



Helcion 244, 246, 247 



Helcioniscus 244. 246, 247 



Helix 127, 188, 273 



Hemitrypus 358 



Hexagonite 160, 180 



Hipparion 92 



Holoparamecns 271 



Hyalosphenia 197 



Hydiotitanite 82 



Hyopotaimis 65 



Hyperistius 08 



Hyposaurus 349 



Hyrachyus 65 



Hyracoilierium 65 



Hyrax 325 



Idonearca 274, 313 



Indianite 140 



Inoccramus 273, 312 



lolite 102 



Iphince 300 



Itacolumite 325 



Juniperus 332 



Kaolinite 141, 266 



Labradorite 100, 119 



Laelaps 248, 266, 340 



Lai'mophloeus 269, 271 



Lafoea 210, 215, 217 



Lagena 281 



Lagenorhvnchus 136 



Laminella. 186 



Lamna 348 



Latliridiiis 271 



Laxispira 301 



Legumen 304 



Le'ioderma 291, 292 



Leonurus 175 



Lepeta 245, 247 



Lepidosteus 51, 266 



Leptacliatiua 186 



Leptosolen 304 



Liatris 154 



Limax 184 



Liriodendron 202 



Lithopliaga 311 



Livonia 286 



Lopliophyllnm 27 



Loricaria 338 



Lottia 246, 247 



Lnnatia 296 



Luzula 159 



Lyria 286, 287, 290 



Macrocyclis 183 



iSIacrorhvncliia '.211, 230 



Magnetite 99, 119 



^[agnolia 329 



]\rammillaria 159 



Martesia 304 



]\rascagnite 265 



:\[astodon 38 



j\[egaptyt:nia 292 



Megatherium 80, 87 



^legathymus 150 



^legistocrinus 29 



Melo 286, 288 



i\reniscotherium 65 



Menopoma 354, 359 



:\renl7.elia 173, 202 



:\resodon 189 



Micropliysa 187 



^lonoclonius 255 



Mr)nlieulipora 27 



Murmidins 271 



^lustelus 52 



Myledaphus 260, 266 




436 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Myliobates 86 



Myxiue 52 



Nacella 246, 247 



Nais 151 



Nassa 282 



Nasua 20 



Nautilus 277 



Nebela 58, 115 



Neithea 319 



Ncmodou 316 



Neotoma 325 



Nephelite 99 



Newcombia 185 



Nobilia 286 



Nucula 318 



Nuculana 318 



Obelia 210, 212 



(Enothera 158 



Olivine 102 



Onchidella 184 



Onoclea 143 



Onyx 166 



Opis 311 



Opnntia 159, 161 



Orobus 112 



Osteoglossum 66 



Ostrea 320 



Otodus 348 



Oxystele 303 



Paclinolite 42 



Pachycardium 309 



Pacliyrhizodus 113 



Palojonyctis 65 



PalfEosciucus 254 



Palseosyops 65 



Paliunis 324 



Papilio 150 



Paracyclas 31 



Paranomia 320 



Parasa 153 



Paronychodon 256, 350 



Partuliua 185 



Patella 239, 246, 247 



Patina 246, 247 



Patinella 247 



Patula 187 



Pentacrinus 178 



Perca 52 



Periplomya 305 



Pcionteoderma 308 



Peioj)hora 152 



Pcrowskite 37, 82 



Persicula 287 



Petalodus 9 



Potrnmyzon 52 



Phalcra 151 



Phallus 194 



Phaseolus 194 



Plieuacodus 65 



Phocsena 1 34 



Plioladomya 305 



Pholcrite 141 



Phorus 302 



Photinula 303 



Phrygionis 152 



Phyllira 151 



Piabucina 335, 336 



Picea 332 



Pickeringite 333 



Pilidium 245, 247 



Plantago 159 



Platypoecilus 335 



Plcsiosaurus 256 



Pliauchenia 147 



Poiibrotherium 146 



Polycotylus 266, 346 



Polygyra 188 



Polyodon 52 



Polythorax 258 



Pomoxys 68 



Porcellana 2S7 



Portulaca 159 



Procamelus 144 



Procvon 20 



Proro7.= i)liius 87, 114 



Prosojiis 270 



Protncardia 309 



Protolabis 145 



Protopterus 52 



Psocus 269 



Pteromalus 271 



Ptiloris 182 



Ptychosyca 294 



Pugnellus 298 



Pupa 127 



Pyropsis 284 



Pyroxene 119 



Pyrula 291 



Quadrula 116 



Quercus 12, 203, 328 



Ralstonite 45 



Ranunculus 85, 110 



Rhamdia 337 



Rhea 14 



Rhizonema 211, 233 



Rhizopertha 270 



Rosteliites 290, 294 



Rubellite 100 



Rudbeckia 175 



Samarskite 39, 87, 112 



Sauroceplialus 253 



Scalarla 296 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



437 



Scalpellum 179 



Scapha 286, 287, 288 



Scaphella 286, 287, 291 



Scaplierpetou 353 



Schizodesraa 306 



Schorlomite 37 



Sclirophularia 108, 111 



Scomber 52 



Scnrria 244, 247 



Scntelliua 246, 247 



Seiiecio 142 



Sertularella 210, 215 



Sertularia 210, 219, 229 



Silvauus 269, 271 



Sincyclonema 319 



Solyma 305 



Sonomaite 263 



Sparganium 198 



Spessartite 39, 53 



Sphenodon 350 



Spinel 102 



Stapelia 194 



Staphylea 110, 112 



StciiogjM-a 127 



Stricklandinia 30 



Strobilocystites 28 



Strombocarpus 269 



Stypolophus 64, 88 



Succiuea 191 



Surcula 278 



Surculites 280 



Syenite 60 



TjEnia 14 



Talinum 159 



Talpa 88 



Tamiosma 273 



Tantalite 39 



Tegenaria 201 



Tellina 307 



Tenea 307 



Teutaculites 34 



Theridion 201 



Thonisenolite 42 



Tluiiaria 211, 225, 226 



Thuja 203 



Tillaudsia 35 



Tiuea 271 



Toinitherium 88 



Topaz 98 



Tourmaline 100 



Toxicodendron 332 



Trachodon 253, 254 



Traclivcardiura 310 



Tremolite 180 



Tribolium 271 



Trichotropis 300 



Trigonarca 314, 316 



Trigonia 312 



Triodopsis 187 



Tritonium 281 



Troilite 87 



Tubularia 211, 231 



Turbinopsis 300 



Turnus 304 



Turricula 187 



Turritella 301 



Urodela 354 



Uronautes 352 



Vaucheria 193 



Vernilia 313 



Verbena 173 



Volula 386, 287, 288, 293 



Volutella 287, 288 



Volutifusus 290, 291, 292 



Volutilithes 286, 290 



Volutimitra .287, 291 



Volutimitrina 287 



Volutina 287 



Volutoderma 289, 293 



Volutomorpha 290, 293 



Welwitschia 1 73 



Wistaria 331 



Xylophagella 304 



Yetina 287 



Yetus 287, 288 



Zapsalis 344 



Zidona 286, 288 



Zircon 103, 156 



Zonites 127, 183 




438 



GENERAL INDEX. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Additions to the Lil)rary, 405 

 Allen H., A Human Skull evhibiting 

 unusual Features, 17 ; Zoological 

 and Biological Methods of Re- 

 search, 80, 90 ; Supernumerary An- 

 terior Extremity in a Brahmin 

 Bull, 143 ; Supernumerary Ante- 

 rior Extremity in a Domestic 

 Cow, 163. 

 Allen, J. A., Description of a New 

 Generic Type, Bassaricyon, of 

 Procyonidse, from Costa Rica, 10, 

 30. 



Barcena, Mariano, On certain Mexi- 

 can Meteorites, 123 ; The Rocks 

 known as Mexican Onyx, 143, 166. 



Binney. Wm. G., On the Lingual 

 Dentition, Jaw, and Gi-nitalia of 

 Carelia, Onchidella, and other Pul- 

 monata, 172, 183. 



Biological and Microscopic Section, 

 Report of, 389. 



Blake, W. P., On Itacolumite, 335. 



Botanical Section, Organization of, 

 114; Report of, 394. 



By-laws, Adoption of, 67, 87; Amend- 

 ments to, 87. 



Chapman, H. C, Description of a 

 new Taenia from Rhea Americana, 

 14 ; Descriittion of a Monstrosity, 

 14, 24; Election as Curator, 159. 



Clarke, S. F., and W. H. Dall, Re- 

 port on the H^'droids collected on 

 the Coast of Alaska and the Ale\i- 

 tian Islands, by Wm. H. Dall, U. 

 S. Coast Survey and i)arly, from 

 1871 to 1874, inc., 143, 309. 



Conchological Section, Jieport of, 

 390. 



Conrad, T. A., Note on a Cirripede 

 of the Californian Miocene, with 

 remarks on Fossil Shells, 204, 273. 



Cope, Edw. D., On a gigantic Bird 

 from the Eocene of New ]\Iexico, 

 10 ; ()n the Theory of Evolution, 

 15 ; On the Tfeniodonta, a new 

 group of Eocene Mammalia. 39 ; 

 On the Geologic Age of the Verte- 

 brate Fauna of the Eocene of New 

 jVIexico, 63 ; Fourth Contribution 

 to the Historj' of Existing Ccta- 

 cea, 80. 139 ; On some supposed 

 Lemurine forms of the Eocene 

 Period, 88 ; On a new Genus of 

 Fo.ssil Fishes, 113 ; On a new 

 Genus of Camelida;, 144 ; Descrip- 

 tion of some Vertebrate Remains 

 from the Fort Union Beds of Mon- 

 tana. 200, 348; Explorations in 

 South America, 264; Cretaceous 

 Vertei)rates of the Upper ^Missouri, 

 206 ; On some Extinct Reptiles 

 and Batracliia from the Fort Union 

 and Fox Hills Beds of Montana, 

 335. 340. 



Correspondence, 1876. 400. 



Council, Election of Members of, 84. 



Dall, W. H., On the Extrusion of 

 the Seminal Products in Limpets, 

 with some Remarks on the Phyl- 

 logeny of Doeoglossa. 193, 239 ; 

 On the Marine Faunal Regions of 

 the North Pacific, 205. 



Dulles. J. H., Announcement of 

 death of, 37. 



Electicms, 1876. 398. 



Enirelmann, Geo., Notes on the Co- 



nifene, 173. 

 Ennis, J., Our Sidereal System and 



the Direction and Distance of its 



Centre, 335, 360 

 Entom(ib)irical Section, Formation 



of, 00 ; Report of, 392. 




GENERAL INDEX. 



439 



Forwond, Wm. H., On Splicnps 

 from Delaware County, Pa.. 176. 



Frazer. P., Jr., On the Age and 

 Origin of certain Quartz Veins, 

 36 ; Notes on two Traps, a case of 

 Alteration of Earthy Sediment, 

 60 ; Notes on some PaU'Pozoic 

 Limestones, 60 ; On the Micro- 

 sco]>ic Observation ot Minute Ob- 

 jects, 84. 



Gabb. W. M., Description of a Col- 

 lection of Fossils made bj' Dr. Rai- 

 mondi in Peru. 143 ; Note on the 

 Discovery of Representatives of 

 two Orders of Fossils new to the 

 Cretaceous Formation of North 

 America, 163, 178 ; Notes on Ame- 

 rican Cretaceous Fossils, wiih de- 

 scriptions of somenew species, 262, 

 276. 



Gesner, Wm., On the Coal and Iron 

 Resources of Alabama. 163 



Gill, Theo., Notes on Fishes from 

 the Isthmus of Panama, collected 

 bv Dr. J. F. Bransford, U. S. N., 

 272. 335. 



Gilliams, J. S., Presentation of por- 

 trait of Jacob Gilliams, 54. 



Goldsmith, E.. Halloysite from Indi- 

 ana, 140 ; On He.xagonite, a new 

 mineral, 100; On Sonomaite, 203 ; 

 On Boussingaultite and other min- 

 erals from Sonoma Co., Cal., 264 ; 

 Pickeringtite from Colorado. 333 ; 

 Epsomite on Brick Walls, 334. 



Haldeman, S. S., On Pre-Historic 



Relics, 35. 

 Hay, Geo., Chemical Notes, 54, 72. 



Index to Genera, 432. 



Jordan. D. S. and H. E. Copeland, 

 The Genua Pomoxj's, Raf , 54, 68. 



Kerr, W. C, On Frost-drip in North 

 Carolina, 157. 



Kcenig. G. A., Mineralogical Notes, 

 36, 155 ; On Pachnolite and Thom- 

 senolite, 35, 42 ; On Tantalite from 

 Yancey Co , N. C, 39 ; On Spes- 

 sartite, 53 ; Note on Mr. EIa3''s 

 Paper, 78 ; Mineralogical Notes ; 

 Hydrotitanite, a new mineral, 82 ; 

 Hexagonite, Goldsmith, a variety 

 of Tremolite, 171, 180. 



Lea, I.. Further Notes on Inclusions 

 in Gems. 86, 08. 



Le Coute, J. L., Destructive Coleop- 

 tera, l'J5 ; Report on Insects intro- 

 duced bv means of the Interna- 

 tional Exhibition, 267. 



Leidy. Jos., On Petalodus, 9; Mas- 

 todon Andium, 38 ; Remarks on 

 Arcella, 54 ; Remarks on Fossils 

 from the Ashle}' River Phosphate 

 Beds. 80, 86 ; Fish Remains of tiie 

 Mesozoic Red Shales, 81 ; Remarks 

 on Vertebrate Fossils from the 

 Phosphate Beds of South Carolina, 

 114; Remarks on the Rhizopod 

 Genus Nebella, 115; Bituminous 

 Sediment of the Schuj'lkill River, 

 193 ; Remarks on the Structure of 

 Precious Opal, 125 ; Observations 

 on Rhizopods, 197 ; Description of 

 Vertebrate Remains chiefly from 

 the Ashley Phosphate Beds of 

 North Carolina, 202; On Ozoce- 

 rite. 325 ; On Hyraceum, 325 ; On 

 Itacolumite, 325 ; Report of Cu- 

 rators, 380. 



Lewis, H. C. On Strontianite and 

 Associated 3Iinerals in Mifflin Co., 

 11. 



Martindale, I., On Opuntia Rafin- 

 esquii andO. vulgaris. 161 ; Natu- 

 ralization of Plants. 175. 



Mazyck, Wm. G.. On the Occurrence 

 of Helix terrestris. Chemn., in 

 North America, 113, 127. 



McCook. H. C, Habits of Formica 

 rufa, 199 ; On Webs of New Spe- 

 cies of Spiders, 200. 



McQuillen. J. H.. The Harmony of 

 Antagonism of Teeth, 176. 



Meehan, Thos., Variations in Quer- 

 cus macrocarpa. 12; Self-Ferlili- 

 zation in Browallia elata, 13 ; Ad- 

 ditional Notes on the Spanish 

 Moss, Tillandsia usneoides, 35 ; On 

 Natural Inarching. 38; On the 

 nature of Root Fibres, 58 ; The 

 '' Sleep of Plants" as an Agent in 

 Self-Fertilization, 84 ; Fertifization 

 of Flowers l)y Insect Agency. 108 ; 

 Retardation of Bloom in an Hcrba- 



• ceous Plant. 142 ; Cross Fertiliza- 

 tion in (Campanula, 142 ; Varia- 

 tions in the Sensitive Fern. Onoclea 

 sensibilis. 143 ; Diurnal Motion in 

 Lialris pycnostachya, 154 ; Fasci- 

 ated Branches, 154 ; On the Diur- 




440 



GENERAL INDEX. 



nal opening of Flowers, 158 ; Mor- 

 phology of the Pear, 171 ; Natural 

 Hybrids, 171 ; Welwitscliia mira- 

 bilis, 172 ; Nocturnal Flowering 

 of Mentzelia ornata, 173 ; Fertili- 

 zation in Beans, 193 ; Fruit of 

 Akebia quinata, 194 ; Note on 

 Phallus foBtidus, 194; Self- Fertili- 

 zation in Mentzelia ornata, 202 ; 

 Direct Growth Force in Roots, 

 202 ; Interpretation of varying 

 Forms, 202 ; On Excrescences and 

 Eccentric Wood Growths in the 

 Trunks of Trees, 327. 



Nolan, Edw. J., Report of Record- 

 ing Secretary, 376 ; Report of Li- 

 brarian, 377. 



Ogden, J., Remarks on Ptiloris Wil- 

 sonii, Ogden, 175, 182. 



Phillips, J. S., Announcement of 



death of, 41. 

 Pickering, Chas., On Photographs 



of Tasmanians at the Centennial 



Exhibition, 169 ; The Australians, 



263. 



Redfield, J. H., Botanical Corres- 

 pondence of Zaccheus Collins, 81 ; 

 Report of Botanical Section, 304. 



Report on Insects Introduced by 

 Means of the International Exhi- 

 bition, 267. 



Report of Biological and Microsco- 

 pical Section, 389. 



Report of Botanical Section, 394. 



Report of Concliological Section, 390. 



Report of Curators, 380. 



Report of Entomological Section, 392. 



Report of Librarian, 377. 



Report of the President, 372. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 376. 



Richardson, J. G., Report of Biolo- 

 gical and Microscopical Section, 

 389. 



Ridings, J., Report of Entomologi- 

 cal Section, 392. 



Roberts, S. R., Report of Concho- 

 logical Section, 390. 



Ruschenberger, W. S. W., Report 

 of the President, 372. 



Smith, Geo. W., Announcement of 

 death of, 66. 



Smith, .1. Lawrence, Two New Mine- 

 rals, 87. 



Strecker, Herman, Description of a 

 New Species of ^giale, and Notes 

 on some other Species of North 

 American Lepidoptera, 140, 148. 



Try on, Geo. W., Jr., Resignation 

 as Curator, 143. 



White, Chas. A., Descriptions of 

 New Species of Fossils from Pale- 

 ozoic Rocks of Iowa, 15, 27. 



Wilder, Burt G., On the Brains of 

 Fishes, 51. 



Willcox, Jos., on Samarskite, 112: 

 Mineralogical Notes, 327 ; Impu- 

 rities in Drinking Water, 327. 



Young, Chas. A., On Conglomerate, 

 No. XII., 262. 








QH Academy of natural sciences 



1 of Philadelphia 

 A 2 Proceedings 



V.28 



Biologic »1 

 & Meciic«I 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 



»wf iP: :-mr -tw •.^laswrn^ -' i^'o'^mit^m. 





